OCR Output 610 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. worship of the national deities Astarte, Belus, and ipiiiticul.iily Melcarth, or the Tyrian Hercules. Ac-;cording to Justin, indeed, the oldest temple of Her­cules was in Paine-Tyms (xi. 10; com p. Curt. iv.2); but this assertion may have been made l>y theTyrians in order to evade the request of Alexander,who wished to train an entrance into their inlandcity under pretence of sacrificing to that deity. Hiram succeeded to the crown of Tyre a littlebefore the bnilding "f Solomon's temple (n. c. 969).He added to and improved the new city, and bymeans of substructions even pained space enough tobuild a lame square or place, the eury chorus. Hemaintained friendly relations with kins David, whichwere confirmed by commerce and by intermarriages.Hiram furnished the Jewish monarch with cedar-wood and workmen to construct his palace, as wellas materials for his proposed temple, the building ofwhich, however, was reserved fur his son. ThePhoenicians, on the other hand, imported the cornand oil of Judah. Under the reign of Solomon thisintercourse was cemented by a formal treaty of com­merce, by which that monarch engaged to furnishyearly 20.000 cors of wheal*, and the like quantityof oil, for the use of Hiram's household, while Hiram,in return, supplied Solomon with workmen to cutand prepare the wood for his temple, and othersskilful in working metal and stone, in engraving,dyeing, and manufacturing fine linen. Solomonalso ceded to Tyre a district in Galilee containingtwenty towns. (I Kings, ix. 13; Joseph. Ant. viii.5.) In these transactions we perceive the relationsnf a commercial and an agricultural people; butHiram was also of great assistance to Solomon in hismaritime and commercial enterprises,and his searchesafter the gold of Ophir, when his victories over theKdomites had given him the command of the Aelan-itic, or eastern, gulf of the Weil Sea. The pilots andmariners for these voyaizes were furnished by Hiram.Except, however, in connection with the Israelites,we know little concerning the reign of this monarch.He appears to have undertaken an expedition againstCitiuin in Cyprus, probably a revolted colony ot thePhoenicians, and to have established a festival inhonour of Melcarth, or Hercules. (Joseph. /. c.) Byhis (jreat works at Tyre he entailed an enormousexpense upon the people; and his splendid reign,which lasted thirty-four years, was followed at nogreat interval by political troubles. His dynasty wascontinued for seven years in the person of his son Bale-azar, <»r Baleastartus, ami nine years in that of Insgrandson Abdastartus. The latter was put to deathby the four sons of his nurse, the eldest of whomusurped the supreme power for a space of twelveyears. This revolution is connected by Movers(ii. pt. i. p. -'142) with the account of the servileinsurrection at Tyre given by Justin (xviii. 3),who,however, with his usual neglect of chronology, hasplaced it a great deal too late. This interregnum,which, according to the account adopted, was acomplete reign of terror, was terminated by a counter-rcvolution. The usurper, whose name is not men­tioned, either died or was deposed, and the line ofHiram was restored in the person of Astartus,—theStrato of Justin.—a sou of Baleastarius. Thisprince reigned twelve years, and was succeeded by hisbrother Astarymus.or Aserynms. who ruled nine years.The latter was murdered by another brother, Phales,who after reigning a few months was in turn assas- * The cor was equal to 7j gallons, or 32 peeks. i sinatcd by Ithohaal, a priest of Atfarie. I'.babaaL *, the Kthbaal of Scripture, father of JeaebeL U» *rt»of A hah. who endeavoured to restore the v--?ti:: HUaal and A>ht. iret h in the k.rr .-i ti-r;(1 Kings, xvi. 31.) In the reign of Itnlihsai r*»»-nicia was visited with a remarkable dmarht. m***also prevailed in Judaea in the lime nf Ahah. (Jcw*AAnt. viii. 13. §2:1 Kings, c. xviL 7.) Helm*nothing further of Ithobaala reign, except u»: itfounded Botrys. on the roast N. of Sidon, atK Aaiin Numidia. (Joseph, viii. 7, 13. § 2.) He rendthirty-two years, and was the founder of a w* cT-nasty. Badezor, his son, succeeded to the threw, idafter a reign of six years was followed brMi&ea ■Mutto, who ruled for thirty-two years. The rrr>4his successor, Pygmalion, brings us iuto crotaftrtlclassical history and tradition, through the intfctun of Carthage by his sister Eiisa, or l)i*>,took place not long after his accession. Prota**'however, this was only a second foundation.as Bttcase of Tyre itself. The whole story, which umrma struggle between an aristocratic*) and aa*?re-*iparty and the monarchical power, has tw-en nfrwTiby mythical traditions and the exnbelh&hxpsH tpoets; but it need not be repeated here, as it «u Ifound in the Dictionary of Jiu>graj>h^ at*i Aljilogy, s. v. Dido. Pygmalion occupied the throne fnrtT-sevesand after his reign there is a gap in lb* btwtTyre. When we can next trace the Pho^oc-i.-*the Scriptures, we hnd them at war with Iatu^ Tprophet Joel, who flourished about the Vwjrra f1the eighth century B.C., bitterlv complains wt Soutrages committed by Tyre iind Sidon oo th*«lof Judaea, and his complaints are repeated by Ama contemporary prophet. This was thr chief pariof the mar itime ascendency of the Phoenicia, itheir main othnce seems to have been the carHoft' of youths and maidens and selling th«* 1slavery. Towards the end of the sajne cen*r^find Isaiah prophesying the destruction uf ViIt was about this period that the A-ssvriazsWto grasp at the countries towards the west, umseek an establishment on the sea-t»«rd of 'Jn- 1diterranean; a policy w hich was onntuiori b«succeeding empires of the Babyh-nians. il«i?v iPersians. The expedition of Shahnan*w, iafter reducing tlie kingdom of ]>rael. t»jr^arms against Phoenicia, is recoriieil br I - -from t he history of Menander. (.■<**/. Lx, 1Alter overrunning the whole of Phoenicia, t* etfwithout attempting any permanent owkju**!.seems to have been assisted by several 1'm«cities, as Sidon, Ace, and even Palae-Trm^ «iwere oppressed by the domination ot Eluia*w».'of Tyre. These cities furnished him wirh iships for a second attempt upnn Trnp; b*iHeet was defeated by the Tyrians with osNvessels. Shalmaneser blockaded them «n tiwside f-T a space of five years, and prevrrtei:from having any fresh water except what th^ripreserve in tanks. How this b I .arc not informed, but it was pmhabrr <avWe have no further acconnt* ot \ tir h i ■ ■that he had reduced to obedience th« tw.vHof Citium in Cyprus previooslr tt> thr* rp^iAfter his reign another long gap ocrore in £i-rlory of Phoenicia, or rather of Tyr*. ita hndsilence would seem to indicate that it mu mthe blessings of peace, and c.>n?*-}nen:lv u&rmin prosperity. The Phoenician ailiaace w« fp