OCR Output OF THE ItOMAN EMPIRE. 171 action, which might escape the observation, while chap.they guided, or rather impelled, the steps. of Julian XVI1'himself. The discontent of the troops was producedby the malice of his enemies; their tumult was thenatural effect of interest and of passion; and if Julianhad tried to conceal a deep design under the appear­ances of chance, he must have employed the mostconsummate artifice without necessity, and probablywithout success. He solemnly declares, in the pre­sence of Jupiter, of the Sun, of Mars, of Minerva,and of all the other deities, that till the close of theevening which preceded his elevation, he was utterlyignorant of the designs of the soldiers; and it mayseem ungenerous to distrust the honour of a hero,and the truth of a philosopher. Yet the superstitiousconfidence that Constantius was the enemy, and thathe himself was the favourite of the gods, mightprompt him to desire, to solicit, and even to hastenthe auspicious moment of his reign, which was pre­destined to restore the ancient religion of mankind.When Julian had received the intelligence of the con­spiracy, he resigned himself to a short slumber; andafterwards related to his friends, that he had seen theGenius of the empire waiting with some impatienceat his door, pressing for admittance, and reproachinghis want of spirit and ambition*. Astonished andperplexed, he addressed his prayers to the great Jutpiter; who immediately signified, by a clear andmanifest omen, that he should submit to the will ofheaven and of the army. The conduct which dis­claims the ordinary maxims of reason, excites oursuspicion and eludes our inquiry. Whenever the * Ammian. xx. 5. with the note of Lindenbrogius on the Genius of the em­pire. Julian himself, in a confidential letter to his friend and physician, Ori-basius (Epist. xvii. p. 384.), mentions another dream, to which, before the event,he gave credit; of a stately tree thrown to the ground, of a small plant striking adeep root into the earth. Even in his sleep, the mind of Casar must have beenagitated by the hopes and fears of his fortune. Zosimus (l . iii. p. 155.) relates asubsequent dream.