OCR Output 498 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. reigners. An ambassador of the great Otho de-XLt' clared, in the palace of Constantinople, that theSaxons could dispute with swords better than withpens; and that they peferred inevitable death to thedishonour of turning their backs to an enemy. Itwas the glory of the nobles of France, that, in theirhumble dwellings, war and rapine were the onlypleasure, the sole occupation, of their lives. Theyaffected to deride the palaces, the banquets, the po­lished manners, of the Italians, who, in the estimate• of the Greeks themselves, had degenerated from theliberty and valour of the ancient Lombards.Oblivion of By the well-known edict of Caracalla, his subjects,language, from Britain to Egypt, were entitled to the nameand privileges of Romans, and their national sove­reign might fix his occasional or permanent residencein any province of their common country. In thedivision of the East and West, an ideal unity wasscrupulously preserved, and in their titles, laws, andstatutes, the successors of Arcadius and Honoriusannounced themselves as the inseparable colleaguesof the same office, as the joint sovereigns of the Ro­man world and city, which were bounded by thesame limits. After the fall of the Western mon­archy, the majesty of the purple resided solely in theprinces of Constantinople; and of these Justinianwas the first, who, after a divorce of sixty years, re­gained the dominion of ancient Rome, and asserted,by the right of conquest, the august title of emperorof Romans*. A motive of vanity or discontent so­licited one of his successors, Constans the second, toabandon the Thracian Bosphorus, and to restore thepristine honours of the Tyber: an extravagant pro­ject (exclaims the malicious Byzantine), as if he had "Justinian, say* the historian Agathias (1. v. p. 157-)i »fwr»f PaiftmutttUTwpxTwp ovo/iari xaw irpxy/ixn. Yet the specific title of emperor of the Romanswas not used at Constantinople till it had been claimed by the French andGerman emperors of old Rome. X