OCR Output 810 LYXCESTIS. LYDIAS. the first king of the Mermnad dynasty, who is said tohave murdered Candaules, is an entirely mythicaljiersonagc, at least the story which Herodotus relatesabout him is nothing but a popular tradition. Hereigned until B.C. 678, and conquered several ofthe adjacent countries, such its a great part of Mysiaand the shores of the Hellespont, and annexed to hisdominions the cities of Colophon and Magnesia,which had until then been quite independent ot' boththe Maoon Litis and the Lydians. Gygcs was suc­ceeded by Ardys, who reigned from B.C. 678 to629, and, continuing the conquests of his predecessor,made himself master of Prienc. His reign, however,was disturbed by the invasion of his kingdom bythe Cimmerians and Treres. He was succeeded bySadyattcs, of whom nothing is recorded except thathe occupied the throne for a period of twelve years,from b. c. 629 to 617. His successor Alyattes,from b. c. 617 to 560, expelled the Cimmerians fromAsia Minor, and conquered most of the Ionian cities.In the east he extended his dominion as far as theriver Halvs, where he came in contact with Cyaxaresthe Mede. His successor Croesus, from u. c. 560to 546, extended his conquests >o far as to embracethe whole peninsula of Asia Minor, in which theLycians and Cilicians alone succe.-*.fully resistedhi in. He governed his vast dominions with justiceand moderation, and his yoke was scarcely felt bythe conquered nations. But as both Lydia andthe Persian monarchy were conquering states, andseparated from each other only by the river Halys,a conflict was unavoidable, and the kingdom ofLydia was conquered by Cyrus. The detail of theseoccurrences is so well known that it does not requireto be repeated here. Lydia became annexed to thePersian empire. We have already noticed the mea­sures adopted by Cyrus to deprive the Lydians oftheir warlike character; but as their country wasalways considered the most valuable portion of AsiaMinor, Darius, in the division of his empire, madeLydia and some small tribes, apparently of Maeonianorigin, together with the Mysians, the second satrapy,and demanded from it an annual tribute for theroyal treasury of 500 talents. (Herod, iii. 90.)Sitrdes now became the ret>idencc of a Persiansatrap, who seems to have ranked higher than theother governors of provinces. Afterwards Lydiashared the fate of all the other Asiatic countries,and more and more lost its nationality, so that inthe time of Strabo (xiii. p. 631) even the languageof the Lydians had entirely disap|ieared, the Greekhaving taken its place. After the death of Alex­ander, Lydia was subject for a time to Antigonus;then to Achaeus, who set himself up as king atSanies, but was afterwards conquered and put todeath by Antiochus. (Polyb. v. 57.) After thedefeat of Antiochus by the Komans, Lydia was an­nexed by them to the kingdom of Kumenes. (Liv.xxxviii. 39.) At a still later period it formed partof the proconsular province of Asia (Plin. v. 30),and continued to retain its name through all thevicissitudes of the Byiantine empire, until finally ittell under the dominion of the Turks. (Corap. Th.M'-nke, Lydiaefi, DitttrUitin Ethwyrnphieti, Berlin,1844, 8vo.; Cramer, Asia Minor, vol. i. p. 413,&c.: Korbiger, Handback der Alien Ueogr. vol. ii.p. 167, &c; Clinton, Fasti Hell. Appeud. p. 361,Ac, 3rd edit.; Niebuhr, Lecturt* on Ancient His-tvry, voL i. p. 88, &c.) [ L. S.J LYDIAS. [Lidias.] LY'lill, LU Gil, or LI'GII {Aavytot, Aowoi, Avyiot), is the general name for a numl«r of itribes in the north-east of Germany, all of wl.i-hbelonged to the Suevi. (Strab. tu. p. 290; Plol. n.11. § 18; Dion Cass, lxvii. 5; Tac. Germ. 43, Amm.xii. 29, 30.) The ancients s[>eak of them as a Ger­man nation, but there can 1* little doubt that, frro-perly speaking, they were Slavonians, who had Urnsubdued by the Suevi, and had gradually ben«ueunited and amalgamated with them. Their namecontains the root lug, which in the old German sig­nifies a wood or marsh, and still has the same mean­ing in the Slavonic; it seems, therefore, to be de­scriptive of the nation dwelling in the plains of theVistula and the Oder. The Lygii are tir-t men­tioned in history as belonging to the emj-irr ofMaroboduus, when they were united with the Mar-comanni and Hermunduri. When the Quadi russagainst king Vannius, in a. d. 50, the Lygii andHermunduri were still united, and opjioscd the in­fluence of the Komans in Germany. (Tac. Ann, L <•)In the reign of Domitian, about a. d. 84. they maoewar on the Quadi, their neighbours, who in vainsought the protection of the Komans. (Dion Casa./. r.) After this time the Lygii disappear frucnhistory, and it is possible that they may have be­come lost among the Goths. The different Lygiantribes, which are mentioned by Tacitus (Arii, Helve-cones, Manimi.Hlysii or Helisii,and N aha trail), v*into have been united among one another by a comm-*worship, the principal seat of which was ainonc theNaharvali. The name of their two common gndawas Alci, who were worshipped without image*;and Tacitus observes lliat their mode of worship wasfree from all foreign admixture, Ptolemy menti<<u,as tribes of the Lygii, the Oinanni. Duni, and Buri.who are either not noticed by Tacitus at all, or arvclassed with other tribes. (Comp. Wilhelrn, (Jrr.martten, p. 242, &c; Zeuss, die IhuUchen, p. 124;Latham, on Twit. Germania, p. 158.) [L, S.]LYGOS. [CoMSTAMlNOI>OM4, p. 257.] LYNCESTIS (Avymjarii, Strab. vii. p. 326;Ptol. iii. 13. § 33), the country of the Lyxcektak(At/7*w<rT/a, Time. ii. 99, iv. 83, 124 ; Strab. vii.pp. 323, 326), once a small independent kingdom,and afterwards a province of the Macedonian mo­narchy. This district was bituated to the S. of thwPelagones, and between that people, and the EonUn.It was watered by the Krigon, and lay in the centraof the Kgnatian Way, which connected iCmne, l\o-stantinople, and Jerusalem. The puss which w[«-rated Lyncestis from Honiara, where Philip madr tu*unsuccessful stand against the Komans, is dumbedby Polybius (xviii. 6) :ls tu lis r^r 'Eopoaio*- £*s«w€o\ai,—and Thucydides (iv. 63) calls a defile inthe same mountains i) Jo€ok)] rijt Airymom, in re­lating the attempt of Perdieras against l.ynre?ii»,which ended in a separate negotiation bwwmi Laally Brasidas and ArrhiUaeu.- king of the Lynrettar.( 1 hue. iv. 83.) It was by the same pass in tawfollowing year that Bra&idas effected his vkiltul anddaring retreat from the united forces of Uw Lyn-cestae and Ulyriana. (Thuc. iv. 124.) According to Strabo (vii. p. 326), Irrha, Ustdaughter of Arrhabaeos (as he writes the nam*),was mother of Kurydkr, who married Amyntaa,father of Philip. Through this connect i<* Lrn-crstis may have becume annexed to Mamkaua.The geography of this district is well illastraml bythe operations of the consul Sulptcins againM Philip.in the campaign of ». c. 2*H). (Liv. axxi. 33.)from tlie narrative of Livy, which was ttiflnrtrtfiHr