OCR Output OF T H E; R O M A N EMPIRE. 20 ** addressed.'' Yet, at the same time, in the true spirit of a polytheist,he accuses them of adoring Earth, Water, Fire, the Winds, andthe Sun and Moon. But the Persians of every age have deniedthe charge, and explained the equivocal conduct, which mightappear to give a colour to it. The elements, and more particu­larly Fire, Light, and the Sun, whom they called Mithra, were theobjects of their religious reverence, because they considered them asthe purest symbols, the noblest productions, and the most powerfulagents of the Divine Power and Nature ". ( •., Every mode of religion, to make a deep and lasting impression onthe human mind, must exercise our obedience, by enjoining practices precept*,of devotion, for which we can assign no reason ; and must acquire ouresteem, by inculcating moral duties analogous to the dictates of ourown hearts. The religion of Zoroaster was abundantly providedwith the former, and possessed a sufficient portion of the latter. Ar>the age of puberty, the faithful Persian was invested with a mys­terious girdle, the badge of the divine protection; and from thatmoment, all the actions of his life, even the most indifferent}or the most necessary, were sanctified by their peculiar prayers,,ejaculations, or genuflexions; the omission of which, under anycircumstances, was a grievous sin, not inferior in guilt to the vio­lation of the moral duties. The moral duties, however, of justice,,mercy, liberality, &c. were in their turn required of the disciple ofZoroaster* who wished to escape the persecution of Ahriman, and tolive with Ormusd in a blissful eternity, where the degree of felicityis exactly, proportioned to the degree of virtue and piety '\ But there are some remarkable instances, in, which Zoroaster lays Encourage-aside the prophet, assumes the legislator, and discovers a liberal *g"concern for private and public happiness, seldom to be found amongthe groveling or visionary schemes of superstition. Fasting andcelibacy, the common means of purchasing the divine favour,he condemns with abhorrence, as a criminal rejection of the best gifts