OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII. 43 the crowd, (who expressed a degree of barbarous ragewhich could scarce be conceived to exist in humanbreasts,) prevailed on them to stop for a moment. Shethen told them, with tears in her eyes, that she had ahusband and children, prisoners among the enemy ; andthat she hoped to be able, with the king's body, (if theywould grant it to her,) however disfigured, to ransomher friends: this put an end to their outrages. Theremnants of his limbs were buried at Consentia, intirelythrough the care of the woman; and his bones weresent to Metapontum, to the enemy, from whence theywere conveyed to Epirus, to his wife Cleopatra, andhis sister Olympias ; the latter of whom was the mother,the former the sister, of Alexander the Great. Suchwas the melancholy end of Alexander of Epirus; ofwhich, although fortune did not allow him to engage inhostilities with the Romans, yet, as he waged war inItaly, I have thought it proper to give this brief ac­count. This year, the fifth time since the building ofthe city, the Lectisternium was performed at Rome,for procuring the favor of the same deities to whom itwas addressed before. 25. The new consuls having by order of the peopledeclared war against the Samnites, exerted themselvesin more formidable preparations of every kind thanhad been made against the Greeks; and about thesame time received a new accession of strength froma quarter where they had no such expectation. TheLucanians and Apulians, nations who until that timehad no kind of intercourse with the Roman people,proposed an alliance with them, promising a supplyof men and arms for the war: a treaty of friend­ship was accordingly concluded. At the same timetheir affairs went on successfully in Samnium. Threetowns fell into their hands, Allifae, Callifae, andRuffrium; and the adjoining country, to a great ex­tent, was on the first arrival of the consuls laid in­tirely waste. As the commencement of their opera­tions on this side was attended with so much success,so the war in the other quarter, where the Greeks were