OCR Output ROMA. 839 ROMA. «n in n'atenee in the time of the Anonymous of. nwdleu (Preller, Regionen, p. 171). The assump-■si I al this pUce was occupied by a stadium built« Alexander Severus— in which case that of Do-jtian must be sought in some other part of thei ■ paa—rata only on traditions of the middle agesL'aaiaa. In-, p. 392). Trajan is laid to have built a theatre in thein:pas Martins, which, however, was destroyed byMima. (Spart. Hair. 8.) The same emperori M; erected what is called in the Notitia theuiucA Uajicianes (Marcianae), whicli wastcaoJy a temple in honour of his sister, Mar-■aa. The Antonines appear to have adorned thislarter with many buildings The Basilica Ma-ihes (Matidiae) was perhaps erected by Antoninusw,aad consecrated to Matidia, the wife of Hadrian;■ell as the Hadrian im, or temple to HadriannsMf, also mentioned in the Notitia. (Preller,17S.) The TtJiixi M Astmmsi and Coixmnaicrus wen the temple and pillar erected intour of M. Aurelius Antoninus. (Capitol. M. Ant; Aar. Viet. Epit. 16.) All these buildings•«i near together in the vicinity of the Piazzaiamaa. on which the column (Columna Antoni-.iii still exists. For a long while this column■ thought to be that of Antoninus Pins, and wasrs (VcUred to be such in the inscription placed onr pedestal during the pontificate of Si.it us V.r u»< sculptures on the column were subsequentlytxiird to relate to the history of Antonine theifa>|iar; and this view was confirmed not onlytie few remaining words of the original inscrip-&. but also by another inscription found in the: xiring Piazza Si Monte Citorio, regarding ataiiiun granted to a certain Adrastus, a freed-n of Septimius Severus and Caracalla, to erect asIj boose in the neighbourhood of the column, asat* of it. This inscription, which is now pre-nd in the corridor of the Vatican, twice mentionseuiamn as being that u Divi Marci." (Canina,tic. p. 417, acq.) The column is an imitation oft 4 Trajan, but not in so pure a style of art.a senro their name of cochlis from the spiralmat (cochlea, m%hia%) in the interior of them.■L Ortg. xt. a, 38.) The Columna Asto.nisii was a large pillar of red granite, erected to MX/tSTAL OF COLIHW OF ANTONINUS PIUS. I. as appears from the inscription, by M. Aure-i aas L. Verus. It waa discovered in ther-t—*- gf Clement XI., in the garden of theam dcila Miit*nu. on the E. side of the Palazzoaf«oja» Citurm. It broke in the attempt to erectI: :n 'ii M„uU. Citorio. where the obeliskr saanda; bat the pedestal with the inscription is still preserved in the garden of the Vatican. (Canina,Indie, p. 419.) The sculptures on the pedestalrepresent the Apotheosis of Antoninus I'ius andFaustina. The Tiikrmae Commodiahae and Alexas-diuxae will be treated of in the section on thebaths. After the time of Alexander Severus wefind but few new buildings mentioned in this dis­trict, Gordian III. is said to have entertained thedesign of building an enormous portico under theTincian hill, but it does not appear that it was everexecuted. (Capitol. G'ora*. ///. c. 32.) Respectingthe Porticus Flaminia, sec the article Pons Mil-vius. Some porticoes near the Pons Aelius, whichappear to have borne the name of Maximae, wereterminated by the Triumphal Arch of Gratian,Vauwtimaji, and Theodosius; the inscription onwhich will be found in the Anonymous of Einsiedlen,and in Gruter (clxxii. 1). Claudius, who was prefectof the city underValentiuian I., erected a portico nearthe baths of Agrippa, which he called PouncesBoni Eventiis, after a neighbouring temple withthe same name (Amm. Marc. xxix. 6. § 19); butwith regard to this temple we have no information. We shall now proceed to that part of the districtunder consideration comprised in the 7th Region ofAugustus, and subsequently called Via Lata, fromthe road which bounded its western side, and whichformed the southern extremity of the Via Flaminia.The most important topographical question con­nected with this district is the situation of theCampus Agrippae, and the buildings connectedwith it. We have already shown from the situationof Martial's house, as well as from the probable siteof the templo of Sol, that the Campus Agrippae musthave lain under the western side of the Quirinal, andnot under the Pincian, where Becker places it. Itis probable, too, that it lay on a line with tho Pan­theon and thermae of Agrippa, although dividedfrom them by the Via Lata; and hence Canina cor­rectly describes it as facing the Septa (/mite. p.215), whilst Urlichs and Preller, in like manner, placeit between the Piazza dtgli Apostoli and the Fon-tana Trevi. (Beschr, vol. iii. pt. iii. p. 112; Pegionen,p. 138.) The Campus Agrippae contained gardens,porticoes, and places for gymnastic exercises, andwas, in short, a kind of Campus Martius in minia­ture. It was also a favourite lounge and promenade.(A. Gcll. xiv. 5.) It appears from a passage inDion Cassius, that the Campus was not finishedbefore Agrippa's death, and that it was opened tothe public by Augustus (It. 8.) It contained aPosticus Polae, so named after Agrippa's sisterPola or Polla; which is probably the same as thatalluded to by Martial, in some passages before quoted,under the name of Vipsania. The latter nameseems to be corrupted in the Notitia into PorticusGgpaiani. Becker (Hanilb. p. 590) would identifythe Porticus Polae with the POSTICUS Europak,but they seem to be different structures. (L'rliths, A'wwi.7opoyr.p.l39.) The latter, which derived its namefrom a picture of the rape of Europa, is frequentlymentioned by Martial (ii. 14, iii. 20, xi. 1). Itssituation cannot be determined; but most topo­graphers place it in the Campus Martius, among theother buildings of Agrippa. (Canina, Indicaz. p. 409;Urlichs, Kim. ManfeM, p. 116 ) It appears fromthe Notitia that the Campus Agrippae containedCastra, which, from the Catalogus Imperat. Vietm.(t. ii. p. 246, Rone), appear to have been dedicatedby Aurdian; but the Porticus Vipsania served as a