OCR Output 460 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. H. tutions, yet do we willingly admit of those that desire to par­take of ours, which, I think, I may reckon to be a plainindication of our humanity, and at the same time of our mag­nanimity also. 38. But I shall say no more of the Lacedemonians. Asfor the Athenians, who glory in having made their city to becommon to all men, what their behavior was Apollonius didnot know, while they punished those that did but speak oneword contrary to their laws about the gods without any mercy:for on what other account was it that Socrates was put todeath by them ? For certainly he neither betrayed their cityto its enemies, nor was he guilty of any sacrilege with regardto any of their temples ; but it was on this account that heswore certain new oaths,1 and that he affirmed either in earnest,or, as some say, only in jest, that a certain demon used tomake signs to him [what he should not do.] For these rea­sons he was condemned to drink poison, and kill himself. Hisaccuser also complained that he corrupted the young men, byinducing them to despise the political settlement and laws oftheir city ; and thus was Socrates, the citizen of Athens, pun­ished. There was also Anaxagoras, who, although he was ofClazomeno?, was within a few suffrages of being condemned todie, because he said the sun, which the Athenians thought tobe a god, was a ball of fire. They also made this public pro­clamation, that they would give a talent to any one who wouldkill Diagorus of Melos, because it was reported of him that helaughed at their mysteries. Protagorus also, who was thoughtto have written somewhat that was not owned for truth by theAthenians about the gods, had been seized upon and put todeath, if he had not fled immediately away. Nor need wc atall wonder that they thus treated such considerable men, whenthey did not spare even women also; for they very latelyslew a certain priestess because she was accused by somebodythat she initiated people into the worship of strange gods, it 1 St -,j what these uuvel oaths were in Dr. Hudson's note, viz.: To swear byan oak, by a goat, and by a dog, as also by a gander, as says Philostratui andothers. This swcaring strangu oaths w:is also forbidden by the Tyrians, B. isect. 22, ns Spanheim hero notes.