OCR Output 42 ELECTRUM. ground, and is of the colour of gold, but it is brittle like LapisSpecularis.1 The emperor Caius, who was most greedy of gold,was anxious to make trial of it, and ordered a great quantity ofit to be smelted. And he certainly procured gold of excellentquality, but in so small a proportion, that he incurred a heavyloss from the undertaking, to which he was impelled by his avarice;although fourteen pounds weight of the Orpiment had been ac­tually converted into gold. The process has never been attemptedby any one since. 23. OF ELECTEUM. In all gold there is a portion of silver; the quantity differs, insome cases amounting to one-ninth, in others to one-eighth of thewhole. There is an ore found in Gaul called Albucrarense, whichcontains only l-36th part, so much does it excel the others invalue. When one-fifth of the whole is silver it is called Electrum,3this kind of alloy is found in the ore called Canaliense.4 Electrumis also made artificially, by adding gold to silver, but if the pro­portion of silver be more than one-fifth, the compound will notbear the hammer. Homer gives his testimony to the value whichwas formerly set upon Electrum, when he informs us that thepalace of Menelaus was resplendent with gold, silver, electrum,and ivory.5 Lindos, a town of the island of Rhodes, has a temple mentum as "quod apatviKov a Graecis nominatur." Nearly the same wordsare employed by Vitruvius, lib. vii. cap. 7, and by Agricola, De Nat.Foss. lib. iii. p. 225; but in this and other passages these authors appear torefer to the sulphuret of arsenic. In his Dialogue De Re Met. p. 456, hedistinctly mentions white arsenic, and designates auripigmentum as yellowarsenic. * This is the Foliated Gypsum, or Selinhe, of the modern mineralogists;SeeKirwin'sMin. 123,4; Jameson,i.567 .. 0; Brochant, i. 606..9; Aikins'Diet. i. 546, 7. It is described by Agricola, De Re Met. p. 456, 7. Plinytreats of it farther in lib. xxxvi. sec. 45. J Agricola says that the name of electrum was given to an alloy, "ubiquinta argenti portio inest in quatuor auri portionibus;" De Nat. Foss.lib. viii. p. 343. The term has been retained by the modern chemists andapplied to the argentiferous ore of gold; the proportion of its ingredientsis, however, very different from that stated by Pliny and Agricola;Klaproth found it to consist of 64 parts gold to 36 silver. 4 See p. 38. s Odyssey, lib. iv. v. 73. Sophocles speaks of "aapittav ijXticrpoi/" inconnexion with the other precious metals; Antigone, 1037, 8.