OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. proper reception of their illuminations, it is necessary that thereshould be as perfect an aptitude in the recipients as they are ca­pable of receiving. Hence, as in generation, or the sublunaryregion, wholes remain perpetually according to nature, bnt theirparts are sometimes according and sometimes contrary to nature,this mull be true of the parts of the earth. When those circu­lations therefore take place, during which the parts of the earthsubsist according to nature, and this is accompanied with a con­currence of proper instruments aud places, then divine illu­mination is abundantly and properly received. But when theparts of the earth subsist contrary to nature, as at present, andwhich has been the cafe ever since the oracles ceased, then, asthere is no longer an aptitude of places, instruments and times,divine influence can no longer be received, though the illumi­nations of divine natures continue immutably the fame; just,fays Proclus, as if a face standing in the fame position, a mirrorshould at one time receive a clear image of it, and at another,one obscure and debile, or indeed no image at all. For, as thefame incomparable man farther observes, it is no more properto refe.r the defect of divine inspiration to the gods, than toaccuse the sun as the cause os the moon being eclipsed, insteadof the conical shadow of the earth into which the moon falls. Page 98. There is a temple of Nemesis, EsV.] Proclus on He-siod informs us, that Nemrfis was celebrated in hymns as theangel of justice; and that she is represented by Hesiod clothedin a white garment, because she is an intellectual power, far re­moved from the atheistic and dark essence of the passions. Page 98. The river of the Ocean."] Herodotus in Euterpefays, "that he knows no river of the name of Ocean, and thathe believes it was either invented by Homer, or some poet offormer times:" and Mr. Wood is of opinion, "that the Oceanin Homer's time had a very different meaning from th3t whichit now conveys." Herodotus is certainly right in what he fays, S 3 ar