OCR Output Chap. III.J THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 103 allowed the distributors to pursue their course; it was clearthat, if the domain question was to be settled at all, thematter could not be carried through without some suchunceremonious vigour of action. But this vigour had its limit. The Italian domain-land Its suspen-was not exclusively in the hands of Roman burgesses ; large sion bytracts of it had been assigned in exclusive usufruct to par- »ip!?ticular allied communities by decrees of the people or senate,and other portions had been occupied with or without per­mission by Latin burgesses. The triumvirs at lengthattacked these possessions. The resumption of the portionssimply occupied by non-burgesses was no doubt allowable informal law, and not less in all probability the resumption ofthe domain-land handed over by decrees of the senate oreven by state-treaties to the Italian communities, since thestate in so doing by no means renounced its ownership, andto all appearance gave its grants to communities, just asto private persons, subject to revocation. But the complaintsof these allied or subject communities, that Rome did notkeep the treaties concluded with them, could not be simplydisregarded like the complaints of the Roman citizens in­jured by the acts of the commissioners. Legally the formermight be no better founded than the latter; but, while inthe latter case the matter at stake was the private interestsof members of the state, in reference to the Latin posses­sions the question arose, whether it was politically right togive fresh offence to communities so important in a militarypoint of view and already so greatly estranged from Romeby numerous disabilities de jure and de facto (ii. 333 et seq..)through this sore injury to their material interests. The de­cision lay in the hands of the middle party ; it was that partywhich after the fall of Gracchus had, in league with hisadherents, protected reform against the oligarchy, and italone w'as now able in concert with the oligarchy to set alimit to reform. The Latins resorted personally to the mostprominent man of this party, Scipio _iEmilianus, with arequest that he would protect their rights. He promised todo so; and mainly through his influence,* in 625, a decree 129. * To this occasion belongs his oration contra legem judiciariam Ti. Gracchi—which we are to understand as referring not, as has been asserted, to a lawas to the judicia publico, but to the supplementary law annexed to his agrarianrogation: ut triumviri judicarent, qua publicum oyer, qua privatus esset (Liv.Ep. lviii.; See p. 90 above\