OCR Output an. 1532.] 93 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. part of the body of the work. Upon everyone of the feet was also inserted a ring, notfar from the cover, through which went barsof gilded wood beneath, to be taken out uponoccasion; there being a cavity where it wasjoined to the rings: for they were not entirerings; but before they came quite round,they ended in acute points; one of which wasinserted into the prominent part of the table,and the other into the foot; and by these itwas carried when they journeyed. Upon thistable, which was placed on the north side ofthe temple, not far from the most holy place,were laid twelve unleavened loaves of bread,six upon each heap, one above another; theywere made of two tenth deals, of the purestflour, which tenth* deal is a measure of theHebrews, containing seven Athenian cotylae.Above those loaves were put two vials full offrankincense. Now after seven days, otherloaves were brought in their stead on theseventh day, which is by us called the sab­bath; but for the occasion of this inventionof placing loaves here, we will speak of it inanother place. Over against this table, near the southernwall, was set a candlestick of cast gold, hol­low within, and of the weight of one hundredpounds, which the Hebrews call cinchares:which, if it be turned into the Greek language,denotes a talent . It was made with its knobs,lilies, pomegranates, and bowls: which orna­ments amounted to seventy in all. By thismeans the shaft elevated itself from a singlebase, and spread into as many branches asthere are planets, including the sun amongmem. It terminated in seven hands, in onerow, all standing parallel to each other; andthese branches carried seven lamps, one byone, in imitation of the number of the planets:these lamps looked to the east and the south,the candlestick being situate obliquely. Between this candlestick, and the table,which, as we said, were within the sanctuary,was the altar of incense; made of wood in­deed, but of incorruptible wood, and en­tirely crusted over with a golden plate. Itsbreadth on each side was a cubit, but theheight double. Upon it was a grate of gold,above the altar, which had a golden crownencompassing it round about; whereto be- * A homer longed rings and bars, by which the priestscarried it, when they journeyed. Before thistabernacle there was reared a brazen altar,but it was within made of wood, five cubits bymeasure on each side, but its height was butthree; in like manner, adorned with brassplates, as bright as gold. It had also a bra­zen hearth of net work; for the ground un­derneath received the fire from the hearth,because it had no basis to receive it. Nearthis altar, lay the basons, the vials, the cen­sers, and the caldrons, made of gold; but theother vessels, made for the use of the sacri­fices, were all of brass. And such was theconstruction of the tabernacle, and the ves­sels thereto belonging. CHAP. VII. OF THE SACERDOTAL GARMENTS. THERE were peculiar garments ap­pointed for the priests, and for all therest, which garments they call cahanaeae, orpriestly garments, as also for the high-priests,which they call cahanaeae rabbae, and denotethe high-priest's garment. Such was there­fore the habit of the rest: but when the priestapproaches the sacrifices, he purifies himselfwith the purification which the law prescribes.And in the first place he puts on that whichis called machanase, which means somewhatthat is fast tied. It is a girdle composed offine twined linen, into which the feet are in­serted, in the nature of breeches; but abovehalf of it is cut ofF, and it ends at the thighs,where it is tied fast. Over this he wore a linen vestment, madeof fine flax doubled, and called chethone, forwe call linen by the name of chethone. Thisvestment reaches to the feet, and sits close tothe body; and has sleeves that are tied fastto the arms: it is girded to the breast a littleabove the elbows, by a girdle often goinground, four fingers broad; but so looselywoven, that it resembles the skin of a serpent.It is embroidered with flowers of scarlet, pur­ple, blue, and fine twined linen; but the warpis nothing but fine linen. The beginning ofits circumvolution is at the breast; and whenit has gone often round it is there tied, andhangs loosely down to the ankles. I meanthis, all the time the priest is not about any