OCR Output B.III. 219 YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. ther the Mityleneans were quite masters of the country, andthat their own soldiers were not numerous enough to bridletheir excursions—about the beginning of autumn send a re­inforcement of a thousand heavy-armed of their own peoplecommanded by Pachus, the son of Epicurus. These, havingrowed themselves the transports which brought them, arrive;and build a single wall in circle quite round Mitylene, and onthe proper spots of ground strengthened it by erecting forts.Thus was Mitylene strongly besieged on all sides, both by sea and land And by this time it began to be winter. But the Athenians, wanting money to carry on the siege,determined now to tax themselves, and by their first contri­bution* raised two hundred talentsf for the present service ;and at the same time dispatched twelve ships under the com­mand of Lysicles and four colleagues, to levy money abroad.He, intent on raising contributions, made a visit for this pur­pose to several places ; and, having landed at Myus, in Caria,intending to pierce through the plain of Maeander as far asthe hill of Sandius, he was attacked on his route by the Ca-rians and Anaeitans, where himself and a great part of his ar­my perished. This winter the Plataeans—for they were still blocked up by the Peloponnesians and Boeotians finding themselves much distressed by the failure of their provisions, giving upall hope of succour from the Athenians, and quite destitute;of all other means of preservation, formed a project now inconcert with those Athenians who were shut up with them ' It was a voluntary contribution : The original term implieth it. Themanner was no doubt the same as was observed in succeeding times, whenthe necessities of the state called for an extraordinary supply. On such oc­casions the president* of the assembly laid before the Athenians the presentwant of money, and exhorted them with chearfulness and generosity tocontribute towards the national support. Such as were willing rose up inturn, saying, " I contribute so much," and naming the sum. Such as,though rich, were niggardly and strangers to all public spirit, sat silent onthese occasions, or as fast as they could stole out'of the assembly. f 38,750/.