OCR Output HISTORY OF RQME.—BOOK XXVII. 17 deny to the Romans that which particular circum­stances alone would shortly render it impossible togrant. If that people saw the allies cordially unitingin such a measure, they certainly would think of makingpeace with the Carthaginians: otherwise, as long asHannibal lived, Italy would never be free from war.'Thus did they argue in their assemblies. The Romancolonies were at this time thirty in number; a.%, of whomhad ambassadors at Rome; and twelve of \ pre­sented a remonstrance to the consuls, stating > it theyhad not the means of furnishing the suppl' 'S _f menand money. These were Ardea, Nepete, Sutrium,Alba, Carseoli, Cora, Suessa, Circeii, Setia, Cales,Narnia, and Iuteramna. The consuls, surprised at suchan extraordinary declaration, and wishing to deter themfrom the meditated secession, to which end they sup­posed that censure and reproof would be more effectualthan gentle measures, answered, that ' the expressionswhich they had dared to use were such as the consulscould not prevail on themselves to repeat in the senate:for they contained not a refusal of military duty, butan open defection from the Roman people. They ad­vised them., therefore, to return home instantly to con­sult with their respective countrymen, as if no stephad yet been taken; since their infamous design,though disclosed in words, had not proceeded to ac­tion; and to remind them that they were not nativesof Campania, or of Tarentum, but of Rome. Thatfrom thence they derived their origin, and from thencewere sent out into colonies, into lands taken from ene­mies, for the purpose of increasing population; andthat, consequently, whatever duties children owe toparents, these they owed to the Romans, if they hadany remains of natural affection, or any regard fortheir mother country. They desired them, therefore,to confer on the matter anew; for that, as to the mea­sures which they had inconsiderately mentioned, theirtendency was to betray the Roman empire, and to giveup the conquest of it to Hannibal.' Though the con­suls, one after the other, reasoned with them in thisliv. vot. v. B