OCR Output RHINOCOKURA. 709 ■ irtich may be read with the articles Bata- ■ Ivscut, Flxvo Lacus, Fossa Corhulo-I*a Mosella, and Gallia Traxsalpixa.t/nl>, .Vance, <fc, " Rhenos "; Penny Cy-ia, art."Rhine"; and Ukert, Gallien,—whour.1*l all the ancient and many modem au-ft) [G. L]tNTS (Raw), a river of Gallia Cispadana, ■ ti the southern tributaries of the Padua.A. 16. a SO.) It flowed within about a milenJ!> of Bononia (Bologna), on the W. sidedy, tod is celebrated in history on accountBArvitw between Antony, Octavian. and Le-ifcieft is generally believed to have taken placeall uUad formed by its waters. [Boxoxia.] wiras in the Apennines nearly 50 milesWyw. and is a considerable stream, thoughly Slim Ittlicus " parvus," to distinguish it ■ f" crater namesake, the Rhine. (Sil. Ital.i I In the time of Pliny it is probable thatai^al its waters into the principal channel ofif, tat at the present day they are turnedi' u artificial channel before reaching thatal are thus carried into the arm now knownft di Primaro. Hence the mouth of that•J the To is now called the Face tUl Raw.>,:, oi that the reeds which grew on the banksthroat were superior to ail others for making (Mia. xri. 56. a. 65.) [E. H. B.JbALSA(T.Viu«, Ptol. v. 18. § 13; 'PeWo,In; Amm. Marc, xxxii. 5; Ressaina,; Haus, XoliL Imp.: Etk. 'Ptaiydrni, 1. r.), a town of considerable importancerU.x extremity of Mesopotamia ; it was si-■v the sources of the Chaboras (Khabur), ona raj which led from Carrhae to Nicepho-88 miles from Kisibis and 40 from(hasp. P. ji. 19, de Atdif. ii. 2.) Itr Has town that Gordian the Younger fell in*Ha the Persians. (Amm. Marc. /. e.) A<• J the emperor Dec i us. bearing the legendWA. PHCAINHCinN., which may in all•7 he referred to this town. In the Notit. ■ f-ia is subject to the government of the**os» (Sotit. Dign. ed. Bex-king, i. p. 400),■•atsp of Resaina is mentioned among thosescribed their names at the Council of Nicaea.ft-^i-woi, tho town appears to have been "twit, and to have received the title of■wroua. (Hierocl. p. 793.) There canthat it is at present represented by*>». a considerable entrepot of commerceP^-nce of IHarbebr. It was nearly de-ky the troops of Timur, in ad. 1393.M. Diet. Orient. I p. 140, iii. p. 112;,10.390.) [V.] con or RBESAEXA. a mountain of Germany, mentionedPuns, Mela (iii. 3), along with MountA* so particulars arc stated it is impos­ sible to identify it, and German writers are so dividedin their opinions that some take Rhetico to be thename of the Siebengebirge, near Bonn, while othersidentify it with a mountain in the Tirol. [L. S.] RHIDAGUS (Curt. vi. 4. § 7), a river of Hyr-cania, which flows from the mountains NW. to theCaspian. Alexander crossed it on his march inpursuit of Dareius. It appears to be the same asthe Choatres of Ammianus (xxiii. 24), and mayperhaps be represented by the present Adjisu. [V.J RHINOCORU'RA or RHINOCOLU'RA {Pan.idpoupa, Polyb. Ptol. Joseph.; 'PiyonraAo^pj, Strab.:Eth. 'PiroKovpiupoi, 'VivoKovpovpWni), a maritimecity on the confines of Egypt and Palestine, and con­sequently reckoned sometimes to one country, some­times to the other. Strabo, going south, reckonsGaza, Raphia, Rhinocolura (xri. p. 759); Polybius,going north, reckons it to Egypt, calling Raphia thefirst city of Coelcsyria (v. 80). Ptolemy alsoreckons it to Egypt, and places it in the district ofCassiotis (iv. A. § 12), between Ostracine and An-thedon. The Itinerarinm Antonini (p. 151) placesit xxii. M.P. south of Rafia, and the same distancenorth of Ostracena. The following curious accountof its origin and name is given by Diodorus Siculus.Actisanes, king of Aethiopia, having conqueredEgypt, with a view to the suppression of crime in hisnewly-acquired dominion, collected together all thesuspected thieves in the country, and, after judicialconviction, cut off their noses and sent them tocolonise a city which he had built for them on theextremity of the desert, called, from their mishap,Rhinocolura (quasi btvos Ko\ovi>ot=curti, al. b. fcet-l>ao6at), situated on the confines of Egypt and Syria,near the shore; and from its situation destitute ofnearly all the necessaries of life. The soil around itwas salt, and the small supply of well water withinthe walls was bitter. Necessity, the mother ofinvention, led the inhabitants to adopt the followingnovel expedient for their sustenance.' They col­lected a quantity of reeds, and, splitting them veryfine, they wove them into nets, which they stretchedfor many stadia along the sea-shore, and so snaredtarge quantities of quails as they came in vast,flights from the sea (i. 60). Strabo copies this ac­count of its origin (/. c); Seneca ascribes the actto a Persian king, and assigns the city to Syria(<4r Ira, iii. 20). Strabo (xvu p. 781) mentions itas having been the great emporium of Indian andArabian merchandise, which was discharged atLeuce Come, on the eastern coast of the Red Sea,whence it was conveyed, via Petra, to Rhinocolura,and thence dispersed to all quarters. In his day,however, the tide of commerce flowed chiefly downthe Nile to Alexandria. The name occurs in Jose-phus, but unconnected with any important event.It is known to the ancient ecclesiastical writers asthe division between the possessions of the sons ofNoah. S. Jerome states that the " River of Egypt"flowed between this city and Pelusium (Upland,Palaett. pp. 285, 286, 969—972); and in one pas­sage the I.XX. translate "the Kiver of Egypt"by Rhinocoruni. (Itaiuh, xxvii. 12.) It is re­markable that this penal colony, founded for muti­lated convicts,should have become fruitful in saints;and its worthy and exemplary bishop Melas, in thetime of the Arian persecution, who was succeeded byhis brother Solon, became the founder of a successionof religious men, which, according to the testimonyof Sozomen, continued to his time. (Hist. Kcclts.'vii. 31.) Khinocorura is now El-Aritk, as the z z 3