OCR Output i THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. provinces, which embraced the larger eastern and southernportions of the peninsula beyond the Pyrenees. We havealready (ii. 206 et seq.) attempted to describe the state ofmatters in the peninsula. Iberians and Celts, Phoenicians,Hellenes, and Romans were there strangely intermingled.The most diverse kinds and stages of civilization subsistedthere simultaneously and at various points crossed each other,the ancient Iberian culture side by side with utter barbarism,the civilized relations of Phoenician and Greek mercantilecities side by side with the growth of a Latinizing culture,which was especially promoted by the numerous Italiansemployed in the silver mines and by the large standinggarrison. In this respect the Roman township of Italica(near Seville) and the Latin colony of Carteia (on the bay ofGibraltar) deserve mention, the latter being, next to Agri-gentum (ii. 150), the first transmarine civic community ofLatin tongue and Italian constitution. Italica was founded206. by Scipio the Elder, before he left Spain (548), for hisveterans who were inclined to remain in the peninsula—pro­bably not as a burgess-community, however, but merely as a171. market-place.* Carteia was founded in 583 and owed itsexistence to the multitude of camp-children—the offspringof Roman soldiers and Spanish slaves—who grew up as slavesde jure but as free Italians de facto, and were now manu­mitted on behalf of the state and constituted, along with theold inhabitants of Carteia, into a Latin colony. For nearly#7 , thirty years after the regulation of the province of the Ebroby Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus (575, 576; ii. 211) theSpanish provinces, on the whole, enjoyed the blessings ofpeace undisturbed, although mention is made of one or twoexpeditions against the Celtiberians and Lusitanians.Lusi- [154. But more serious events occurred in 600. The Lusitanians,tanian war. under the leadership of a chief called Punicus, invaded theRoman territory, defeated the two Roman governors whohad united to oppose them, and slew a great number oftheir troops. The Vettones (between the Tagus and theUpper Douro) were thereby induced to make commoncause with the Lusitanians; and these, thus reinforced, * Italica must have been intended by Scipio to be what was called in Italyforum et conciliabulum avium Romanorum; Aqua; Sextix in Gnul had a similarorigin afterwards. The formation of transmarine burgess-communities onlybegan at a later date with Carthage and Narbo: yet it is remarkable thatScipio already made a first step, in a certain sense, in that direction. ify. 1*8