OCR Output PLACIA. PLATAEA. 637 iricT.Ml Pliorinii Tacitus giving it that title(IV Ells. JO; Tac. But. ii. 19): it had pro-WN* rMind i fresh colony under Augustus. We■n fan Tacitus (!■ c.) that it was one of thev* Wishing and pr*pulous cities of the districtI Cdh Cicpsdins; and though of no naturalSi\ts. tmz limited in an open plain, it was wellr.M. fx this reason it was occupied in A. r>. • l» fcminri, one of the generals of Otho, andsWijr otfrnded by him against Caecina, theanl rf Vrttllitu, aho had crossed the Padus, andit to Plscmtia, but was compelled to abandonsaf titUnnr to Cremona. (Tac. Bitt ii. 17 —Q Mag the assaults of Caecina, the amphi-■H <Urh is said to have been the largest pro-aVJeiiiee nf the kind in Italy, and was situatedr* the walls, was accidentally burnt, (/ft.) Fran tail time we meet with no furthertVa rf Pbcrntia in history till the reign of An-■. "bra that emprror sustained a great defeats it- Mtrrarnanni, under its walls. (Vopisc.•f il) Hot the city still continued to be oneh> »tt considerable places on the line of theiftax; snd though it is noticed by St. Am-(l«uus the cloeeof the fourth century, asl^a tat desolation that had then befallen thet <f taw once flourishing province (Ambros.9\ a surrivfd all the ravages of the barba.i; ial fTm liter the fall of the Western Em-■••ail ammparatiTely flourishing town. Itfcttiat Orestes, the father of the unhappy■sin. wis pot to death by OJoacer, in A. v. (P. Due But. MitaU. xvi. p. 558.) Prc- • sntifini it during the Gothic wars as af irtrpM uid the chief city of the province ofla h vat only taken by Totila, in A. D.► amine. (Procop. B. G. iii. 13, 17.) Con-sty U^r it U still noticed by P. Macnnus ''opulent cities" of Aemilia (But. ljnntj.•? s paiiMa which it preserved throughout theI ajo. At the present day it is still a flou-I ri papulous place, with about 30,000 in-lax t!>w;b partially eclipsed by the superior■at* i, which Parma, has attained since it • tt< capital of the reigning dukes. ThereI annas uf antiquity. *a«u vis undoubtedly indebted for its pros-'tai rapartance in ancient tiroes, as well as'*>»2* irr*. to its advantageous situation for■Vk:*t of the Po. Strabo (v. p. 215) speaks^"ifcitici from thence to Ravenna, as if thefcagu to be navigable from Placentia; hot this is not quite correct. The citya i Jw. distance from the river; but itor port on the stream itsrlf, pro-ri c.iiflaenc* with the) Trebia, which was • eaairrxbh town. This w:is taken andWW Hinnihal in sc. 218. (Lir. xxi.mhit ii. 19.) tbret. a!rwdy mentioned that the Viaas arigiaaDy constructed, led from Ari- • » PUfentia/a distance of 178 miles. It^•varts continued from the latter city to■A fraa wbrcc* ■ branch proceeded across the u> Gem (Strab. v. p. 17); while anothertvned from Placentia across the Padus■ distance of 40 miles; andwith the whole of Gallia Trans-_ (/ak AtL pp. 98, 127. 288; /tin Bier.Ir-i/Vs*.)" [K. H.B.J ICU(naaxra: Etk. nArurnu-cit), an ancient Pelasginn town in Mysia Olympene, at the foot ofMount Olympns, and on the east of Cyzicus. Theplace seems to have decayed or to have been de­stroyed at an early time, as it is not mentioned bylater writers. (Herod, i. 57; Scylax, p. 35; Dionys.Hal. i. p 23: Steph. B. i. v. nAd<r».) [L. S.] PLACUS (iTAaicoi). a woody mountain of Mysia.at the foot of which Thebe is said to have beensituated in the Iliad (vi. 397, 425, xxii.479); butStrabo (xiii. p. 614) was unable to learn anythingabout snch a mountain in that neighbourhood. [SeePelecasl] [L. S.] PLAGIAHIA. [Li-sitania.] PLANA'RIA INS. [Forti'Natae Insui-ae.] PLANA'SIA. [Lf.rina; Lkkon.] PLANA'SIA (riAofao-ia: Nanoiii), a small is­land in the Tyrrhenian sea, about 10 miles SW. ofllva (Elba), and nearly 40 from the nearest pointon the coast of Etruria. It is about 3 miles Ion?by 2} in width, and is low and flat, from whenceprobably it derived its nnme. (Plin. iii. 6. s. 12;Ptol. iii. 1. § 79; J tin. Marit. p. 513.) The Mari­time Itinerary reckons it 90 stadia from Uva, whilePliny calls the same distance 38 miles; but this isevidently a mistake for its distance from the main­land. It is remarkable that Pliny mentions Pla-naria and Planasia as if they were two distinctislands, enumerating the one before and the otherafter Ilvu; but it is certain that the two names areonly forms of the same, and both refer to the sameisland. (Cluvcr. ltal. p. 504; Harduin. Not. adI'tin. I. c.) In VaiTo's time it seems to have be­longed to M. Piso, who kept large flocks of peacocksthere in a wild state. (Varr. R. R. iii. 6.) It wassubsequently used as a place of banishment, andamong others it was there that Postumus Agrippa,the grandson of Augustus, spent the last years ofhis life in exile. (Tac. Ann. i. 3, 5; Dion Cuss. lv.32; Suet. Avg. 65.) Some ruins of Roman build­ings still remain in the island: and its quarries ofgranite seem to have been certainly worked in an­cient times. It is now inhabited only bv a few fisher­men. [E. H. B.] PLANE'SIA (X\\a>n\ata, Strab. iii. p. 159), anisland in the Sinus Illicitanus, on the SE. coast ofHispania Tarraconensis, now hoia Pluna. [T.H.D.] PLATAEA. [Platea.] PLATAEA or PLATAEAE (nAdraia, Horn.Herod.; nAaraiai, Thuc. Strab. l'aus, Ac.: Eth.nAarauvs, Plataeensis), an ancient city of Boeotia,was situated upon the frontiers of Attica at the foot ofML Cithaeron, and between that mountain and theriver Asopus, which divided its territory from that ofThebes. (Strab. ix. p.411.) The two cities were about6.) miles apart by the road, but the direct distancewas little more than 5 geographical mites. Accordingto the Thebans Plataea was founded by them (Thuc.iii. 61); but Pausanias represents the Plataeans asindigenous, and according to their own account theyderived their name from Plataea, a daughter of Aso­pus. (Pans. ix. 1. § 1.) Plataea is mentioned in Ho­mer among the other Boeotian cities. (//. ii. 504.) Inn. c. 519 Plataea, unwilling to submit to the supre­macy of Thebes, and unable to resist her powerfulneighbour with her own unaided resources, formed aclose alliance with Athens, to which she continuedfaithful during the whole of her subsequent history.(Herod, vi. 108; Thuc. iii. 68.) She sent 1000men to the assistance of Athens at Marathon, andshared in the glories of that victory. (Herod. I. c.)The Plataeans also fought at Arteniisium, but were