OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 173 beheld the corpse of the Gothic king. His hat, en- chap.riched with gems, and his bloody robe, were pre- XXXVLsented to Justinian by the messengers of triumph*. The victorious eunuch pursued his march through Conquest ofTuscany, accepted the submission of the Goths, heard Narses.7the acclamations, and often the complaints, of theItalians, and encompassed the walls of Rome withthe remainder of his formidable host. Round thewide circumference, Narses assigned to himself, andto each of his lieutenants, a real or a feigned attack,while he silently marked the place of easy and un­guarded entrance. Neither the fortifications of Ha­drian's mole, nor of the port, could long delay theprogress of the conqueror; and Justinian once morereceived the keys of Rome, which, under his reign,had heenjive times taken and recovered j". But thedeliverance of Rome was the last calamity of theRoman people. The Barbarian allies of Narses toofrequently confounded the privileges of peace andwar: the despair of the flying Goths found some con­solation in sanguinary revenge: and three hundredyouths of the noblest families, who had been sent ashostages beyond the Po, were inhumanly slain by thesuccessor of Totila. The fate of the senate suggestsan awful lesson of the vicissitude of human affairs.Of the senators whom Totila had banished from theircountry, some were rescued by an officer of Belisarius,and transported from Campania to Sicily; while otherswere too guilty to confide in the clemency of Justinian,or too poor to provide horses for their escape to thesea-shore. Their brethren languished five years in astate of indigence and exile; the victory of Narsesrevived their hopes; but their premature return tothe metropolis was prevented by the furious Goths; • Theophanes, Chron. p. 193. Hist . Miscell. 1. xvi. p. 108.f Eti TovTov ^ao-(XeuovTof To ire^irTov JttXw. In the year 536 by Belisarius, in546 by Totila, in 547 by Belisarius, in 549 by Totila, and in 552 by Narses.