OCR Output 184 DECLINE AND FALL • fcHAP; XLI. the remaining troops of Belisarius were divided and dis­persed from the garrisons of Sicily to the shores of the•nduX. Hadriatic. His skill and perseverance overcame everyrity of Be- obstacle: Urbino was taken, the sieges of Faesulae, Or-vieto, and Auximum, were undertaken and vigorouslyprosecuted; and the eunuch Narses was at length re­called to the domestic cares of the palace. All dissensionswere healed, and all opposition was subdued, by thetemperate authority of the Roman general, to whom hisenemies could not refuse their esteem; and Belisariusinculcated the salutary lesson, that the forces of the stateshould compose one body, and be animated by one soul.But, in the interval of discord, the Goths were permittedto breathe; an important season was lost, Milan wasdestroyed, and the northern provinces of Italy wereafflicted by an inundation of the Franks.iuJySb7°r When Justinian first meditated the conquest of Italy,tie Franks, he' sent ambassadors to the kings of the Franks, and ad- A. D 538 539. 'jured them, by the common ties of alliance and religion,to join in the holy enterprise against the Arians. TheGoths, as their wants were more urgent, employed a moreeffectual mode of persuasion, and vainly strove, by thegift of lands and money, to purchase the friendship, or atleast the neutrality, of a light and perfidious nation." Butthe arms of Belisarius, and the revolt of the Italians, hadno sooner shaken the Gothic monarchy,than Theodebertof Austrasia, the most powerful and warlike of the Me­rovingian king^, was persuaded to succour their distressby an indirect and seasonable aid. Without expectingthe consent of their sovereign, ten thousand Burgun-dians, his recent subjects, descended from the Alps, andjoined the troops which Vitiges had sent to chastise therevolt of Milan. After an obstinate siege, the capital ofLiguria was reduced by famine, but no capitulation couldbe obtained, except for the safe retreat of the Roman e This national reproach of perfidy (Procop. Goth. lib. 2. o. 25.) offends the ear ofla Mothe le Vaycr, (tom. 8. p. 163—165.) who criticise;, as if he had not read, theGreek historian. .