OCR Output Chap. XVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 297 th'ately, and destroyed a great number of the seditious,and raisedthe sieges of all those fortresses they had besieged: he also exact­ed the tribute of an hund'-ed talents of his enemies, as a penalty,or the mutations they had made in the country. 6. By this time the Parthians being already driven out ofthe country, and Pacorus slain, Ventidius, by Antony's command,sent a thousand horsemen, and two legions, as auxiliaries to He.rod, against Antigonus. Now Antigonus besought Macheras,who was their general, by letter, tocome tohisassistance.andmadea great many mournful complaints about Herod's violence, andabout the injuries he did to the kingdom; and promised to givehim money for such his assistance: but he complied not with hisinvitation to betray his trust, for he did not contemn him thatsent him, especially while Herod gave him more money [thanthe other offered}- So he pretended friendship to Antigonus, butcame as a spy to discover his affairs: although he did not here­in comply with He-rod, who dissuaded him from so doing. ButAntigonus perceived what his intentions were before-hand,and excluded him out tjf the city, and defended himself againsthim, as against an enemy from the walls ; till Macheras wasashamed of what he had done, and retired to Emmaus to Herod;and, as he was in a rage at his disappointment, he slew all theJews whom he met with, without sparing those that were forHero'd, but using them all as if they were for Antigonus. 1. Hereupon Herod was very angry at him, and was going tofight against Macheras as his enemy; but he restrained his indig­nation, and marched to Antony to accuse Macheras of maj-administration. But Macheras was made sensible of his offences,andfollowed after the king immediately, andearnestly begged andobtained that he would be reconciled to him. However, Heroddid not desist from his resolution of going to Antony; but wheuhe heard that he was besieging * Samosata with a great army,.which is a strong city near to Euphrates, he made the greaterhaste; as observing that this was aproper opportunity for shew­ing at once his courage, and for doing what would greatly obligeAntony. Indeed, when he came, he soon made an end of thatsiege, and slew a great number of the barbarians, and took fromthem a large prey ; insomuch that Antony, who admired hiscourage formerly, did now admire it still more. Accordingly heheaped many more honours upon him, and gave him more as­sured hopes that he should gain his kingdom: and now kingAntiochus was forced to deliver up Samosata. CHAP. « -This Samosata, the metropolis of Commagena, is well known from its coins,,as Spanheim here as'ures us. Dean Aldrich also confirms what Josephus here notes,that Herod was a great meaiis of taking the city by Antony, and that from Pk«Orch and D10. VOL. III. P p