OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 301 About two years after the last victory of Belisarius, the His dis- r mi • • nit grace and emperor returned from a Thracian journey of health, or death,business, or devotion. Justinian was afflicted by a pain A.D"561'in his head; and his private entry countenanced therumour of his death. Before the third hour of the day,the baker's shops were plundered of their bread, thehouses were shut up, and every citizen, with hope orterror, prepared for the impending tumult. The sena­tors themselves, fearful and suspicious, were convened atthe ninth hour; and the prefect received their com­mands to visit every quarter of the city, and proclaim ageneral illumination for the recovery of the emperor'shealth. The ferment subsided; but every accident be­trayed the impotence of the government and the factioustemper of the people: the guards were disposed to mu­tiny as often as their quarters were changed or their paywas withheld: the frequent calamities of fires and earth­quakes afforded the opportunities of disorder; the dis­putes of the blues and greens, of the orthodox and here­tics, degenerated into bloody battles; and in the pre­sence of the Persian ambassador, Justinian blushed forhimself and for his subjects. Capricious pardon andarbitrary punishment embittered the irksomeness anddiscontent of a long reign: a conspiracy was formed inthe palace; and, unless we are deceived by the names ofMarcellus and Sergius, the most virtuous and the mostprofligate of the courtiers were associated in the same de­signs. They had fixed the time of the execution; theirrank gave them access to the royal banquet; and theirblack slaves' were stationed in the vestibule and porticos,to announce the death of the tyrant, and to excite a se-.dition in the capital. But the indiscretion of an accom­plice saved the poor remnant of the days of Justinian. ed in the prolix declamation of Agathias, (lib. 5. p. 154—174.) and the dry chronicleof Theophanes. (p. 197, 198.) 1 iv5ou;. They could scarcely be real Indians; and the Ethiopians, sometimesknown by that name, were never used by the ancients as guards or followers: theywere the trifling, though costly, objects of female and royal luxury. (Terent Eu­nuch, act 1. scene 2. Sueton. in August. v. 83. with a good note of Caiaubun, in Ca­ligula, c. 57.)