OCR Output ITALIA. SI ITALIA. period (Strab. v. p. 231); and Cicero even extols thesituation of Rome, as compared with the rest1 of La-tinni, as "a healthy spot in the midst of a pes­tilential region." (Cic de Rtp. ii. 6.) Bnt theimperial citj itself was far from being altogetherex. mpt Horace abounds with allusions to the pre­valence of fevers in the summer and autumn (£p.i. 7, Sal. ii. 6. 19, Cam. ii. 14. 16), though thedense, population must have tended materially torepress them. Even at the present day the mostthickly peopled parts of Rome are wholly exemptfrom malaria. (This qnestion is more fully dis­cussed under the article Latipm.) The volcanic phenomena displayed so conspicu­ously in some parts of Italy did not fail to attract theattention of ancient writers. The eruptions of Ae-naria, which had occurred soon after the first settle­ment of the Greek colonists there, were recorded byTimaeoi (ap. Strab. v. p. 248); and the fables con­certed with the lake Avemus and its neighbourhoodhid evidently a similar origin. Strabo also correctlyarjoed that Vesuvius was itself a volcanic mountain,long before the fearful eruption of A. d. 79 gave suchsi-nal proof that its fires were not, as he supposed,extinct. (Strab. v. p. 247.) This catastrophe,frirful as it was, was confined to Campania; butearthquakes (to which Italy is so subject at thepresent day) appear to have been not less frequent»ni destructive in ancient times, and were far frombeini limited to the volcanic regions. They arementioned as occurring in Apulia, Picenum, Umbria,Ktroria, Liguria, and other parts of Italy; andthengh their effects are generally noticed some­what vaguely, yet the leading phenomena which ac­company them at the present day—the subsidenceof tracts of land, the fall of rocks and portions ofmountains, the change of the course of rivers, theirmption of the sea, as well as the overthrow ofbuihUntrs, and sometimes of whole towns and cities —are all mentioned by ancient writers. (Liv. xxii. 5;JuL Obseq. 86. 96, 105, 106, 122, &c.) Slightshocks were not unfrequent at Rome itself, thoughit never suffered any serious calamity from thiscan*. But the volcanic action, which had at a fardwlant period extended over broad tracts of CentralItaly, and given rise to the plains of the Campagnaand the Phlegraean Fields, as well as to the loftyprops of the Alb&n and Cimioian hills, had ceasedl«02 befure the age of historical record; and noR'rnari writer seems to have suspected that theAllan lake had once been a crater of eruption, orthat the "silex" with which the Via Appta waspared was derived from a stream of basaltic lava.[Laticx.] The volcanic region (in this geological sense) ofCentral Italy consists of two separate tracts ofecantry, of considerable extent; the one comprisingU» greater port of Old Latinm (or what is now calledthe Campagna of Rome), together with the southernpart of Etruria; and the other occupying a largeJftrtion of Campania, including not only Vesuviusand the volcanic hills around the lake Avemus, butthe broad and fertile plain which extends from theBat of Sapkt to the banks of the Liris. Thesetwo tracts of volcanic origin are separated by theVobciaa mountains, a series of calcareous rangesbranching off from the Apennines, and filling np thespace from the banks of the Liris to the borders oftat Pontine marshes, which last form a broad stripof alluvial soil, extending from the volcanic district<t the Roman Campagna to the Monte Circelio. vou u. The volcanic district of Rome, as we may term themore northern of the two, is about 100 miles inlength, by 30 to 35 in breadth; while that of Cam­pania is about 60 miles long, with an average,though very irregular, breadth of 20. North of theformer lie the detached summits of Afte. Amiata andRadicqfani, both of them composed of volcanic rocks;while at a distance of 60 miles E. of the Campanianbasin, and separated from it by the intervening massof the Apennines, is situated the isolated volcanicpeak of Mt Vnltur (Voltore), a mountain whoseregular conical form, and the great crater-shapedbasin on its northern flank, at once prove its volcaniccharacter; though this also, as well as the volcanoesof Latium and Etruria, has displayed no signs ofactivity within the historical era. (Daabeny, OnVolcanoes, ch. xi.) It is scarcely necessary to enumerate in detailthe natural productions of Italy, of which a summaryview has already been given in the passages citedfrom ancient authors, and the details will be foundunder the heads of the several provinces. But it isworth while to observe how large a portion of thoseproductions, which are at the present day among thechief objects of Italian cultivation, and even impartto its scenery some of its most peculiar characters,are of quite modem introduction, and were whollyunknown when the Greek and Roman writers wereextolling its varied resources and inexhaustible fer­tility. To this class belong the maize and rice soextensively cultivated in the plains of Lombaruy,the oraages of the Ligurian coast and the neigh­bourhood of Naples, the aloes and cactuses whichclothe the rocks on the sea-shore in the southernprovinces; while the mulberry tree, though wellknown in ancient times, never became an importantobject of culture until after the introduction of thesilk-worm in the 13th century. Of the differentkinds of fruits known to the ancient Romans, manywere undoubtedly of exotic origin, and of some theperiod of their introduction was recorded; hut almostall of them throve well in Italy, and the gardensand orchards of the wealthy Romans surpassed allothers then known in the variety and excellence oftheir produce. At the same time, cultivation of themore ordinary descriptions of fruit was so extensive,that Varro remarks : "Arboribus consita Italia est,nt tota pomarium videatur." (S. R. i. 2. § 6.) Almost all ancient writers concur in praising themetallic wealth of Italy; and Pliny even assertsthat it was, in this respect also, superior to all otherlands; but it was generally believed that the go­vernment intentionally discouraged the full explora­tion of these mineral resources. (Plin. iii. 20. s. 24,xxxvii. 13. s. 77; Strab. vi. p. 286; Dionys. i. 37;Virg. Georg. ii. 166.) It is doubtful whether this policy was really de­signed to husband their wealth or to conceal theirpoverty; but it is certain that Italy was far frombeing really so rich in metallic treasures as wassupposed, and could bear no comparison in this re­spect with Spain. Gold was unquestionably foundin some of the streams which flowed from the Alps,and in some cases (as among the Ictymuli andSalassi) was extracted from them in considerablequantities; but these workings, or rather washings,appear to have been rapidly exhausted, and the gold-works on the frontiers of Noricum, celebrated fortheir richness by Polybius, had ceased to exist inthe dayB of Strabo. (Strab. iv. p. 208.) Silver isenumerated, also, among the metallic treasures of a