OCR Output ,4 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773. 4 jest ? In the juncture before us, Claudius figured. so little on the stage of public business, that therewas scarce a man in Rome, who did not seem, by the/ voice of fame and the wishes of the people, designedfor the sovereign power, rather than the very person,whom fate, in that instant, cherished in obscurity, tomake him, at a future period, master of the Romanworld. XIX. The senate, a few days afterwards, on themotion of Tiberius, granted the sacerdotal dignity toVitellius, Veranius, and Servseus. Fulcinius Trioreceived a promise of the emperor's favour in hisroad to honours, but was at the same,time admo­nished to restrain the ardour of his genius, lest, byover-heated vehemence, he might mar his eloquence.In this manner ended the inquiry concerning thedeath of Germanicus; a subject which has been va­riously represented, not only by men of that day,but by all subsequent writers. It remains, to thishour, the problem of history. A cloud forever hangsover the most important transactions, while, on theone hand, credulity adopts for fact the report of theday; and, on the other, politicians warp and disguisethe truth: between both parties two different accountsgo down from age to age, and gain strength with pos­terity. Drusus thought it time to enjoy the honours of apublic entry. For this purpose he went out of thecity, and having assisted at the ceremony of the au­spices, returned with the splendour of an ovation. Ina few days after he lost his mother Vipsania; of allthe children of Agrippa, the only one that died a na­tural death. The rest were brought to a tragic end;some, as is well known, by the murderer's stroke;and others, as is generally believed, by poison or byfamine. XX. In the same year Tacfarinas, the Numidianchief, whom we have seen defeated by Camillus in aformer campaign, once more commenced hostilities inAfrica. He began by sudden incursions; dependingfor his safety on the rapidity of his flight. Embold­ened by success, he attacked several towns and vil­