OCR Output Ol' THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 363 a peremptory order, that the fate of the province and the war should be decidedby a single battle. The Syrians were attached to the standard of Rome and ofthe cross; but the noble, the citizen, and the peasant, were exasperated by the in­justice and cruelty of a licentious host, who oppressed them as subjects, and des­pised them as strangers and aliens. (1) A report of these mighty preparations wasconveyed to the Saracens in their camp of Etnesa; and the chiefs, though resolvedto fight, assembled a council: the faith of Obu Obeidah would have expected onthe same spot the glory of martyrdom; the wisdom of Caled advised an honoura­ble retreat to the skirts of Palestine and Arabia, where they might await the suc­cours of their friends, and the attack of the unbelievers. A speedy messengersoon returned from the throne of Medina, with the blessings of Omar and Ali, theprayers of the widows of the prophet, and a reinforcement of eight thousand Mos­lems. In their way they overturned a detachment oT Greeks, and when theyjoined at Yermuk, the camp of their brethren, they found the pleasing intelligence^that Caled had already defeated and scattered the Christian Arabs of the tribe ofGassan. In the neighbourhood of Bosra, the springs of mount Hermon descendin a torrent to the plain of Decapolis, or ten cities; and the Hieromax, a namewhich has been corrupted to Yermuk, is lost after a short course in the lake of Ti­berias.^) The banks of this obscure stream were illustrated by a long and bloodyencounter. On this momentous occasion, the public voice, and the modesty ofAbu Obeidah, restored the command to the most deserving of the Moslems. Ca­led assumed his station in the front, his colleague was posted in the rear, thatthe disorder of the fugitives might be checked by his venerable aspect andthe sight of the yellow banner which Mahomet had displayed before the walls ofChaibar. The last line was occupied by the sister of Derar, with the Arabianwomen who had enlisted in this holy war, who were accustomed to wield the bowand the lance, and who in a moment of captivity had defended, against the uncir-cumcised ravishers, their chastity and religion.(3) The exhortation of the gene­ral was brief and forcible. "Paradise is before you, the devil and hell-fire in yourrear." Yet such was the weight of the Roman cavalry, that the right wing of theArabs was broken and separated from the main body. Thrice, did they retreat indisorder, and thrice were they driven back to the charge by the reproaches andblows of the women. In the intervals of action, Abu Obeidah visited tire tents ofhis brethren, prolonged their repose by repeating at once the prayers of two diffe­rent hours; bound up their wounds with his own hands, and administered the com­fortable reflection, that the infidels partook of their sufferings without partakingof their reward. Four thousand and thirty of the Moslems were buried in thefield of battle; and the skill of the Armenian archers enabled seven hundred toboast that they had lost an eye in that meritorious service. The veterans of theSyrian war acknowledged that it was the hardest and most doubtful of the ciayswhich they had seen." But it was likewise the most decisive: many thousands ofthe Greeks and Syrians fell by the swords of the Arabs; many were slaughtered »after the defeat, in the woods and mountains; many, by mistaking the ford, weredrowned in the waters of the Yermuk; and however the loss may be magnified,(4)the Christian writers confess and bewail the bloody punishment of their sins. (5)Manuel the Roman general, was either killed at Damascus, or took refuge in themonastery of mount Sinai. An exile in the Byzantine court, Jabalah lamented themanners of Arabia, and his unlucky preference of the Christian cause.(6) He (1) I have read somewh vein Tacitus, or Grotius, Snbjectos haber.t lanqtiam. suos, viles tnnquam alieno*.Same Greek officer* ravished the wife, and murdtrcd thechild, of their Syrian iandlord; .and Manuel smiled atIiis imdutiful complaint. (2) See Reelaml, Palestine, torn. i. p. 272. 233. torn, ii. p. 771. 775. This learned profVsior was equal to thetask of describing the Holy Land, sineehe wns alike conversant with Grfek and Latin, with Hebrew and Ara­bian literature. The Yermuk, or Hieromax, is noticed hyCellarius (Geoeraph. Antiq. torn. ii. p. 3Q2.;andd'Anville (Geographic Ancienne, torn, ii, p. 185.) The Arabs anil even Abulfcda himself, do not see™ tp re­cognise the scene of their victory. (3) These women were of the tribe of the Hamyrites, who derived their origin from the ancient Amalekitef.Their females were accustomed to ride on horseback, and to fight like the Arra/.ons of old (Ockley, vol. i. p. 67.) (4) We killed of them, says Abu Obeidah to the caliph, one hundred and fifty thousand, and made prisonersfnrty thousand (Ockley, vol.*i. p. 241.) As I cannot doubt his veracity, nor believe his computation, I mustsuspect that the Arabic historians indulged themselves in the practice of composing speeches and letters fortheir heroes. (5) After deploring the sins of the Christians, Theopbr.nes adds (Chronograph, p. 276.) uvurrn » *pw**eAux?~',x ivrrTMV tifiet; tov tou XpWTOv, jtai ytvtTeit TTtt'jrrn $>op* Trrwtr*," tou P»/*x«sa« TrpXTtu h xecrce to TowSoxw Keyto(does he mean Aiznadin?) teat Itfpwtuv, xca tijv »6,-rj«ow a^«tTo;£wi«v. His account is brief and obscure, but heaccuses the numbers of the enemy, the adverse wind, and the cloud of dust: p* SmtS'.mK (the Homan*)«vr<*pi<r-o)»Trr»i c^Spei; Sin rev gcvipSTSe, (jttmitmi, xsc< tetvrovf Sttl.h'ivns (I; rcrs o-rwaSoti; roy Xifftixysj trormuiv ixmKswX.st'ra aeJV. (Chronograph, p. 280.)(») See Abulfcda (Anna". Moslem, p. 70,7!.) who transcribes the poetical complaint of Jabalah himself, am)