OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247 If so many successive generations of Goths were capable of pre- Ehm'£ra^on cfserving a faint tradition of their Scandinavian origin, we must not fromScaodi-expect, from such unlettered barbarians, any distinct account of the p^uffia." °time and circumstances of their emigration. To cross the Balticwas an easy and natural attempt. The inhabitants of Sweden weremasters of a sufficient number of large vessels, with oars ", and thedistance is little more than one hundred miles from Carlscroon to thenearest ports of Pomerania and Prussia. Here, at length, we land onfirm and historic ground. At least as early as the Christian æraand as late as the age of the Antonines IS, the Goths were establishedtowards the mouth of the Vistula, and in that fertile province, wherethe commercial cities of Thorn, Elbing, Koningsberg, and Dantzick,were long afterwards founded ,6. Westward of die Goths, thenumerous tribes of the Vandals were spread along the banks of theOder, and the sea coast of Pomerania and Mecklenburgh. A strik­ing resemblance of manners, complexion, religion, and language,seemed to indicate that the Vandals and the Goths were originallyone great people ,?. The latter appear to have been subdividedinto Ostrogoths, Visigoths, and Gepidæ ,8. The distinction amongthe Vandals was more strongly marked by the independent namesof HerulL, Burgundians, Lombards, and a variety of other pettystates, many of which, in a future age, expanded themselves into-powerful monarchies. In the age of the Antonines, the Goths were still seated in From PmffiatPrussia. About the reign of Alexander Severus, the Roman pro- Ukraine,vince of Dacia had already experienced their proximity by frequentand destructive inroads '9. In this interval therefore, of aboutseventy years, we must place the second migration of the Goths,from the Baltic to the Euxine; but the cause that produced it liesconcealed among the various springs of action, incident to unsettled,barbarians. Either a pestilence, or a famine, a victory, or a defeat, 2. ana