OCR Output C. IV.] THE TEMPLE GATES. 265 backwards headlong: others of them they met and slew: theyalso beat many of those that went down the ladders again,and slew them with their swords before they could bring theirshields to protect them; nay, some of the ladders they threwdown from above when they were full of armed men ; a greatslaughter was made of the Jews also at the same time, whilethose that bare the ensigns fought hard for them, as deemingit a terrible thing, and what would tend to their great shame,if they permitted them to be stolen away. Yet did the Jewsat length get possession of these engines, and destroyed thosethat had gone up the ladders, while the rest were so intimida­ted by what those suffered who were slain that they retired,although none of the Romans died without having done goodservice before his death. Of the seditious, those that hadfought bravely in the former battles did the like now; as be­sides them did Eleazar, the brother's son of Simon the tyrant.But when Titus perceived that his endeavors to spare aforeign temple turned to the damage of his soldiers, and madethem be killed, he gave order to set the gates on fire. 2. In the mean time there deserted to him Ananus, whocame from Emmaus, the most bloody of all Simon's guards,and Archilaus, the son of Magadatus, they hoping to be stillforgiven, because they left the Jews at a time when they werethe conquerors. Titus objected this to these men as a cun­ning trick of theirs; and as he had been informed of theirother barbarities towards the Jews, he was going in all hastoto have them both slain. He told them, "that they wereonly driven to this desertion because of the utmost distressthey were in, and did not come away of their own good dis­position ; and that those did not deserve to be preserved, bywhom their own city was already set on fire, out of whichfire they now hurried themselves away." However, thesecurity he had promised deserters overcame his resentments,and he dismissed them accordingly, though he did not givethem the same privileges that he had afforded to others. Andnow the soldiers had already put fire to the gates, and thesilver that was over them quickly carried the flames to thewood that was within it, whence it spread itself all on theIV. —23