OCR Output 382 ROMAN EMPIRE. and his grandfather; his uncles were strong and nume­rous; and in the division of the inheritance, the or­phan's. share was reduced to five camels and an Ethio­pian maid-servant. At home and abroad, in peace andwar, Abu Taleb, the most respectable of his uncles,was the guide and guardian of his youth; in his twea-ty-fifth year, he entered into the service of Cadijah,a rich and noble widow of Mecca, who soon rewardedhis fidelity with the gift of her hand and fortune. Themarriage-contract, in the simple style of antiquity. , re­cites the mutual loves of Mahomet and Cadija; de­scribes him as the most accomplished of the tribe ofKorr.ish; and stipulates a dowry of twelve ounces pfgold and twenty camels, which was supplied by the li­berality of his uncle." By this alliance the son of Ab-dallah was restored to the station of his ancestors; andthe judicious matron was content with his domesticvirtues, till, in the fortieth year of his age,y he assumedthe title of a prophet, and proclaimed the religion of theKoraq. According to the tradition of his compa- Qualifica- . mr i i . . • i i i' * i_ nions, Mahomet2 was distinguished by the prophet. beauty of his person, an outward gift which isseldom despised, except by those to whom it has beeqrefused. Before he spoke, the orator engaged Ojn, hj$side the affections of a public or private audieuce. * I copy the honourable testimony of Abu Taleb to his family and nephew.Laus Dei, qui nos a stirpe Abrahami et qemine ismaelis consatuit, et nobis regi-onem sacram dedit, et nos judices hominibus statuit. Poro Mohammed filius AD-dollahi nepotia mei (nepoi meat) quo cum ex aequo librabitur e Korashidis . juis-piam cui non prscponderaturus est bonitate et excellentia, et intellect^ et glona e.tacumiae etsi opum inops fuerit (et certe opes umbra transiens sunt etdepositum quodreddi debet), desiderio Chadijae filia e Chowailedi tenetur, et ilia vicissim ipsius,quicquid autem dotis vice petieritis, ego in me suscipiarn. (Pocock, Specimen, eseptima parte libri Ebn Uamduni.) » The private life of Mahomet, from his birth to his mission, is preserved byAbulfeda, (in Vit. c. 3 — 7.) and the Arabian writers of genuine or apocryphalnote, who are alleged by Hottinger, (Hist. Orient , p. 204 — 211.) Maracci, (,1901.1. p. 10—14.) and Gagnier. (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 97—134). 1 Abulfeda, in Vit , c. 65, 66. Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 37f — 289.the bes.t traditions of the person and conversation of the prophet are derived fromAyesha, Ali and Abu Horaira, (Gagnier, torn. 2. p. 267. Ockley's Hist, of theSaracens, voU 3. p. 149.) suniamed the father of a cat, who died in the year 59of i he Hegira.