OCR Output CHAP. LI. 431 the name of Abdallah was joined by the Arabians withthe heroic names of Caled and Amrou.8Progress of The western conquests of the Saracens werewnifiiT" suspended near twenty years, till their dis-Afnca, sensions were composed by the establishment665—689. of the house of Ommiyah: and the caliphMoawiyah was invited by the cries of the Africans them­selves. The successors of Heraclius had been informedof the tribute which they had been compelled to stipu­late with the Arabs: but instead of being moved to pityand relieve their distresses, they imposed, as an equivalentor a fine, a second tribute of a similar amount. Theears of the Byzantine ministers were shut against thecomplaints of their poverty and ruin: their despair wasreduced to prefer the dominion of a single master; andthe extortions of the patriarch of Carthage, who wasinvested with civil and military power, provoked the sec­taries, and even the Catholics, of the Roman province toabjure the religion as well as the authority of their ty­rants. The first lieutenant of Moawiyah acquired a justrenown, subdued an important city, defeated an army ofthirty thousand Greeks, swept away fourscore thousandcaptives, and enriched with their spoils the bold adven­turers of Syria and Egypt.h But the title of conquerorof Africa is more justly due to his successor Akbah. Hemarched from Damascus at the head of ten thousand ofthe bravest Arabs; and the genuine force of the Mos­lems was enlarged by the doubtful aid and conversion ofmany thousand barbarians. It would be difficult, nor isit necessary, to trace the accurate line of the progress ofAkbah. The interior regions have been peopled by theorientals with fictitious armies and imaginary citadels.In the warlike province of Zab or Numidia, fourscore partivav 2apaxqv»i TW A^gixnv, xat 7-u/u£oXorrs; ta TVfanwi, MI nut aw aural nmmon, xai irroi^iwaVTif ipgpw; ftlT» TOT Aif(m inTheophau. Chronograph, p. 285. edit. Paris. His chronology i i loose and inaccurate.h Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 293.) inserts the vague rumours that mightreach Constantinople, of the western conquests of the Arabs; and I learn fromPaul Wamefrid, deacon of Aquileia, (de Gcstis Langobard, lib. 5. c. 15.) that atthis time the; sent a fleet from Alexandria into the Sicilian and African seas.