OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 383 Abubeker; and Bosra was taken in the year 632. chap.Damascus was obstinately defended, and it was not' till after a long siege that it yielded to the Saracens.But the army of Heraclius, which had been sent toits relief, being defeated in the battle of Aiziradin,and no further hope of succour remaining, the Da­mascenes entered into a treaty with Abu Obeidah,the commander of one part of the besieging army.The capitulation was faithfully observed by him ; butCaled, who commanded the other division of the Sara­cens, took advantage of the security in which thegarrison indulged on account of the treaty, and forcedthe city at the gate opposite to that by which hiscolleague made his peaceable entry. A cruel scenethen followed ; but the slaughter was checked by thefidelity of Abu Obeidah to the terms which he hadgranted. The Damascenes who chose to abandonthe city were permitted to do so; and a great mul­titude of soldiers and citizens, of priests and laymen,of women and children, departed with such effectsas they were able to take with them. Three dayswere allowed as the period of peace, but on the fourthday, Caled, assisted by a renegade who acted as hisguide, began the pursuit, and overtaking the promis'-cuous and half armed multitude, enjoyed the satisfac­tion of believing that not a single Christian of eithersex had escaped the edge of the scimitar. The plun­der of Damascus was immense. The emperor Heraclius did not yet abandon thedefence of Syria. A numerous army was collected Cadi of Bagdad, who was born A. D. 748, and died A. D. 822. He likewisewrote the conquest of Egypt, of Diarbckir, \c. Above the meagre and recentchronicles of the Arabians, Al Wakiili has the double merit of antiquity and co­piousness. His tales and traditions afford an artless picture of the men and thetimes Yet his narrative is too often defective, trifling, and improbable. Tillnorr ething better shall be found, his learned and spirited interpreter (Ockley,in hishistory of the Saracens, vol. i. p. 21—.142) will not deserve the petulant animad­version of Reiske, (Prodidagn.ata ad Hagji Caliph Tabulas, p. 23G). I amsorry to think that the labours of Ockley were consummated in a jail (see histwo prefaces to the 1st vol. A.l). 1708, to the vd, 17 >8, with the list of authorsat the end).