OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. himself to the discretion of the conqueror. The judgment of thearmy pronounced him worthy of death, and Claudius, after a feebleresistance, consented to the execution of the sentence. Nor was thezeal of the senate less ardent in the cause of their aew sovereiga.They ratified, perhaps with a sincere transport of zeal, the electionof Claudius; and as his predecessor had shewn himself the personalenemy of their order, they exercised under the name of justice asevere revenge against his friends and family. The senate was per足mitted to discharge the ungrateful office of punishment, and the em足peror reserved for himself the pleasure and merit of obtaining byhis intercession a general act of indemnity \ Such ostentatious clemency discovers less of the real character of Clemency and * justice ot Claudius, than a trifling circumstance in which he seems to have Claudius,obeyed the dictates of his heart. The frequent rebellions of theprovinces had involved almost every person in the guilt of treason,almost every estate in the case of confiscation; and Gallienus oftendisplayed his liberality, by distributing among his officers the pro足perty of his subjects. On the accession of Claudius, an old womanthrew herself at his feet, and complained that a general of the lateemperor had obtained an arbitrary grant of her patrimony. The gene足ral was Claudius himself, who had not entirely escaped the contagionof the times. The emperor blushed at the reproach, but deserved theconfidence which she had reposed in his equity. The confession ofhis fault was accompanied with immediate and ample restitution In the arduous talk which Claudius had undertaken,of restoring the He under-empire to its ancient splendor, it was first necessary to revive among formation'ofhis troops a fense of order and obedience. With the authority of thcarnjy-a veteran commander, he represented to them, that the relaxationof discipline had introduced a long train of disorders, the effects ofwhich were at length experienced by the soldiers themselves; thata people ruined by oppression, and indolent from despair, could no'longer supply a numerous army with the means of luxury, Or even P p 2 of