OCR Output 288 TITUS UVIUS' BOOK III. compassion on him and his daughter; and to have re­gard to the prayers , not of the Claudian family, whichhad exercised a cruel tyranny over them, but of Vir­ginia's relations, and three tribunes, who being createdfor the protection of the people, were now imploringtheir aid and protection."These tears prevailed. Appius in consequence havingIost all hopes, put an end to his own life, before the dayappointed for his trial arrived. Sp. Oppins, who afterAppius, was of all the decemvirs most detesied, was pro­secuted soon after, at the instance of Numitorius, as anaccomplice of Appius in the affair of Virginia, becausehe was in the city when that infamous judgment waspassed. But a crime charged personally against himselfcat deeper in his condemnation, than his conniving atAppius's baseness. A witness was produced who hadserved twenty-seven years, and had been eight times ho­noured with military rewards, which.he had with him.—Stripping off his robe, he exposed his shoulders whichhad been torn with rods by the decemvirs' lictors, offeringto submit himself to the same treatment again, if Oppiuscould assign any good reason for his cruelty. Oppiuswas.also sent to prison, and before the day of his trial, hewas no more. The estates of both were confiscated bythe tribunes. The rest of the decemvirs were banished,and their estates confiscated. Claudius, who hail claimedVirginia, was condemned on the day appointed for bistrial; but Virginius remitted his execution, and convert­ed the sentence into banishment, when he retired to Ti-bur.—Thus the manes of Virginia, more happy after herdeath than in her life, having wandered through so manyhouses in pursuit of just vengeance, were at length ap­peased, by the punishment of ull the guilty. CHAP. LIX. Seasonable interposition of Duillus. The Fathers dissatis­fied with the popularity of the consuls. .l HE senators were now under no small apprehensions,seeing the tribunes had become as sanguinary as the de­cemvirs had been before, when Duilius, who was orre