OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 145 more by the diligence and generosity of the king, who not onlysupplied the artificers abundantly, and with great generosity,with what they wanted, but he forbade public audiences for thetime, and came and stood by the workmen, and saw the wholeoperation. And this was the cause why the workmen were soaccurate in their performance, because they had regard to theking, and to his great concern about the vessels, and so the moreindefatigably kept close to the work. 11. And these were what gifts were sent by Ptolemy to Je­rusalem, and dedicated to God there. But when Eleazar thehigh priest had devoted them to God, and had paid due respectto those that brought them, and had given them presents to becarried to the king, he dismissed them. And when they werecome to Alexandria, and Ptolemy heard that they were come, andthat the seventy elders, were come also, he presently sent for An­dreas and Aristeus, his ambassadors, who came to him, and de­livered him the epistle which they had brought him from the highpriest, and made answer to all the questions he put to them byword of mouth. He then made haste to meet the elders thatcame from Jerusalem, for the interpretation of the laws; and hegave command, that every body, who came on occasions, shouldbe sent away, which was a thing surprising, and what he did notuse to do, for those that there were drawn thither upon such oc­casions used to come to him on the fifth day, but ambassadors atthe month's end. But when he had sent those away, he waited forthese that were sent by Eleazar; but as the old men came in withthe presents, which the high priest had given them to bring tothe king, and with the membranes, upon which they had theirlaws written * in golden letters, he put questions to them con­cerning those books; and when they had taken off the coverswherein they were wrapt up, they showed him the membranes.So the king stood admiring the thinness of those membranes,and the exactness of the junctures; which could not be perceiv­ed, (so exactly were they connected one with another); and thishe did for a considerable time. He then said that he returnedthem thanks for coming to him, and still greater thanks to himthat sent them ; and, above all, to that God whose laws they ap­peared to be. Then did the elders, and those that were presentwith them, cry out with one voice, and wished all happinessto the king. Upon which he fell into tears by the violence ofthe pleasure he had, it being natural to men to afibrd the sameindications in great joy, that they do under sorrows. And when .he had bid them deliver the books to those that were appointed * The Talmudists say, that it is not lawful to write the law in letters of gold,contrary to > this certain and very ancient example. See Hudson's and Reland'snotes here.