OCR Output 400 [book XI, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. of the temple where the elders also werepresent, but were uneasy because of thecold; Esdras stood up, and told them, theyhad sinned, in marrying wives that were notof their own nation. But that now theywould do a thing both pleasing to God andadvantageous to themselves, if they wouldput those wives away. Accordingly they allcried out that they would do so: that how­ever the multitude was great, and the seasonof the year was winter, and this work wouldrequire more than one or two days. "Lettheir rulers therefore," said they, "and thosethat have married strange wives, come hitherat a proper time while the elders of everyplace, that are in common to estimate thenumber of those that have thus married, areto be there also.* Accordingly this was re­solved on. And they began the inquiry afterthose that had married strange wives, on thefirst day of the tenth month; and continuedthe inquiry till the first day of the next month;and found a great many of the posterity ofJeshua the high-priest, and of the priests andLevites, and Israelites, who had fa greaterregard to the observance of the law, than totheir natural affection: and immediately cast,out their wives, and the children which wereborn of them. And in order to appease God,they offered sacrifices and slew rams, as ob­lations to him. But it does not seem neces­sary to set down the names of these men.So when Esdras had reformed this sin,about the marriages of the aforementionedpersons, he reduced that practice to purity;so that it continued in that state for the timeto come. Now when they kept Jthe feast of taber­nacles in the seventh month, and almost allthe people were come together to it, theywent up to the open part of* the temple, tothe gate that looked eastward, and desired of Esdras that the laws of Moses might be readto them. Accordingly he stood in the midst ofthe multitude, and read them from the morn­ing to noon. Now by hearing the laws readto them, they were instructed to be righteousmen for the present and for the future. Butas for their past offences, they were dis­pleased at themselves, and proceeded toshed tears on their account; as consideringwith themselves, that if they had kept thelaw, they had endured none of those miserieswhich they had experienced. But when Es­dras saw them in this disposition, he badethem go home, and not weep; for that it wasa festival, and that they ought not to weepthereon; for that it was not lawful so to do.|jHe exhorted them rather to proceed imme­diately to feasting, and to do what was agree­able to a day of joy, but let their repentanceand sorrow for their former sins be a security,and a guard to them, that they fall no moreinto the like offences. So upon Esdras's ex­hortation, they began to feast; and when theyhad so done for eight days in the tabernacles,they departed to their own homes: singinghymns to God, and returning thanks to Es­dras, for his reformation of what corruptionshad been introduced into their settlement.So it came to pass, that after he had ob­tained this reputation among the people, hedied an old man; and was buried in a mag­nificent manner at Jerusalem. About thesame time it happened also, that Joacim, thehigh-priest died; and his son Eliasib suc­ceeded to the high-priesthood. Now§ there was one of those Jews that hadbeen carried captive, who was cup-bearer toking Xerxes. His name was Nehemiah. Asthis man was walking before Susa, the metro­polis of the Persians, he heard some strangersthat were entering the city, after a long jour­ney, speaking to one another in the Hebrew * Ezra*. 13, 14. t This procedure of Ezra, and of the best part of theJewish nation, after the return from the Babylonish Cap­tivity, of reducing the Jewish marriages, one for all, tothe strictness of the law of Moses; without any regard tothe greatness of those who had broken it; and withoutregard to that natural affection or compassion for theirheathen wires, and their children by them, which madeit so hard for Ezra to correct them; deserves greatly tobe observed among Christians. The contrary conducthaving ever been the bane of true religion, both amongJews and Christians; while political views, human pas­sions, or prudential motives, are suffered to take place, instead of the divine laws; and the blessing of God isforfeited, and the,church suffered to continue corrupt,from one generation to another. J This Jewish feast of tabernacles was imitated in seve­ral heathen solemnities: as Spanheim here observes, andproves. He also farther observes presently, what greatregard many heathens had to the monuments of theirforefathers, as Nehemiah had here. II This rule of Ezra's, not to fast on a festival day, isquoted in the Apostolical Constitutions, as obtainingamong Christians also, V. 20. § An. 462