OCR Output 1140 THEBAE BOEOTIAE. TF1EBAE BOEOTIAE. builders of its walls. (Od. xi. 262.) But the logn-graphcrs placed Amphion and Zethus lower downin the series, as we shall presently see. The legendsconnected with the foundation of the city bj Cadmusare related elsewhere. [Diet, of Binjr. ami Myth.art. CADMUS.] The five S parti, who were the onlysurvivors of the warriors sprung from the dragon'steeth, were the reputed ancestors of the noblestfamilies in Thebes, which l>orc the name of Spurt idown to the latest times. It is probable that thename of their families gave origin to the fable of theBowing of the dragon's teeth. It appears certainthat the original inhabitants of Thebes were calledCadmeii (Ka6>«oi, //. iv. 3S8, 391, v. 807, x.288, Od. xi. 276) or Cadmeiones (KaoVeiwrcr. //.iv. 385, v. 804, xxiii. 680), and that the southernplain of Bocotia was originally called the Cadmeianland (Kao>Tjfs yr}} Tliuc. i. 12). The origin ofthese Cadineians has given rise to mnch disputeamong modern scholars. K. 0. Miiller considersCadmus a god of the Tyrrhenian Pelasgians, andinaintaini that the Cadmeians are the same as theTyrrhenian Pelasgians; Welcker endeavours toprove that the Cadmeians were a Cretan colony;while other writers adhere to the old traditions thatthe Cadmeians were Phoenicians who introduced theuse of letters into Greece. (Miiller, Orchomenos, p.111, seq., 2nd ed.; Thirlwall, //«/. of tfresoe, vol.i. p. 111.) It is useless, however, to enter into thediscussion of a subject respecting which we possessno materials for arriving at a satisfactory conclusion.It is certain that the Greeks were indebted to thePhoenicians for their alphabet; but whether theCadmeians were a Phoenician colony or some otherrace must be left uncertain. But we must return to the legendary history ofThebes. Cadmus had one son, Polydorus, and fourdaughters, Ino, Semcle, Autonoe, and Agave, all ofwhom are celebrated in the mythical annals. Thetales respecting them are given in the IHct. of Biogr.and Afgth., and it is only necessary to mentionhere that Ino became the wife of Athamas and themother of Melicertcs; Semele was beloved hy Zeusand became the mother of the god Dionysus; Autonoewas the mother of the celebrated hunter Act aeon,who was torn to pieces by the dogs of Artemis;and Agave was the mother of Pentheus, who, whenCadmus became old, succeeded him as king ofThebes, and whose miserable end in attempting toresist the worship of Dionysus forms the subject ofthe Bacchae of Euripides. After the death ofPentheus, Cadmus retired to the Ulyrians, andhis sou Polydorus became king of Thebes. Poly,ilorua is succeeded by his son Labdacus. who leavesat his death an infant won Lai OS. The throne isusurped by Lycos, whose brother Nycteus is thelather of Antiope, who becomes by Zeus themother of the twin sons, Amphion and Zethus.Nycteus having died, Antiope is exposed to the per­secutions of her uncle Lycus and his cruel wifeDirce, till at length her two sons, Amphion andZethus, revenge her wrongs and become kings ofThebes. They fortify the city; and Amphion, whohad been taught hy Hermes, possessed such exquisiteskill on the lyre, that the stones, obedient to hisstrains, moved of their own accord, and formed thewall (*4 movit Amphion lapides canendo," Hor. Cann.iii. 11). The remainder of the legend of Amphionand Zethus need not be related; and there can beno doubt, us Mr. Grote has remarked, that thewhole story was originally unconnected with the Cadmcian family, as it still stand* in the («Hwif,and has been interwoven bj the keapaaeaB atithe series of the Cadmetan mvths. Is otff ■ avconcile the Homeric account of the ba&uagrfascity by Amphion and Zethus with the iwulij run!legend of its foundation by Cwbaas, it n» ew*sented by later writers that, while Cadmai fiaeaalthe Cadineia, Amphion and Zethas bmh threwcity (tV v6\iy TTjv *orw). and gate U> tit wanlcity the name of Thebes. (Pass. ix. &. $§ it) After Amphion and Zethus, Laics bean OBJof Thebes; and with him commences tat istory of Oedipus and his family, which aknown to need repetition here, Whea Oeiaaasex [»elled from Thebes, after di*c»jTennc that at Imurdered his father Laius and married b» iJocasta, his two sons Eteocles aodquarrelled for their father s throne. Tear iled to the two sieges of Thebes by tat IAdnstas, two of the most memorable ewanslegendary history of Greece. They f-.*md tject of the two epic poems, called the Tbeaas ■the Epigoni, which were considered •hjithe Iliad and the Odyssey. Polynicev sewdriven ont of Thebes by Eteocles, retina Iand obtains the aid of Adrastus. the bagcity, to reinstate him in his rights.Adrastus are joined by five other herte\ ithe confederacy known under the"Seven against Thenes." The name* ef Iseven chiefs were Adrastus, AmphUraas,<Hippnmedcn, Parthenopaens, Tyd*us,«ad Ibut there are discrepancies in the Ie4a.inotice more fully below: and Aeacb«a*(&Thtb. 4C1) in particular omits Adnserts Eteocles in his place. The Seven (vsnced against Thebes, and each attached Ithe celebrated gates of the city. PotysiaalEteocles fell by each other's hands; ud ■(general engagement which followed la* <the two brothers, the Argives were dVfeasalltheir chiefs slain, with the exception ef Jwho was saved by the swiftness of his Ithe offspring of Poseidon. A few yeaai ithe sons of the Seven Chiefs uua-rtct ailtion against Thebes, to avenge their fateaaf]hence called the war of the Epigoni or IThis expedition was also led byconsisted of Aegialeus, son of Adrastus, 1son of Polynices, Alcmaeon and Araaiof Amphiariius, Diomedes, son of Tydesa, 1lens, son of Capauens, and Prontachcs, mm at Ithenopaeoa. The Epigoni gained athe Cadmeians at the river Gltsas, aaiwithin their walls. Upon the advice af ITei resins, the Cadmeians abandonedretired to the Ulyrians under theI^iodamas, son of Adrastus. (Ap'4ral "S-JflHerod, v. 57—61; Pans. ix. 5. § 13; "*65, 66.) The Epigoni thus becaawThebes, and placed Thersander, son <the Throne. (For a full account af law 3Thebes, see Grote, Hist, of Gmcr. val a mAccording to the mythical ebroooiogy. the lthe Seven against Thebes took place SO *■the Trojan expedition and 30capture of Troy; and the war o/ the 1placed 14 years after the firstThebes, and consequently only 4departure of the Greeks against Tiwy. (€F. U. vol. i. p. 140.)