OCR Output 3>y© THE DECLINE AND FALL vessels, and to direct their various incursions, as well on the coast ofGreece as on that of Asia. "fU length the Gothic fleet anchored inthe port of Piræus, five miles distant from Athens'", which hadattempted to make some preparations for a vigorous defence. Cleo-damus, one of the engineers employed by the emperor's orders tofortify the maritime cities against the Goths, had already begun torepair the ancient walls fallen to decay since the time of Sylla,The efforts of his skill were ineffectual, and the barbarians be­came masters of the native feat of the muses and the arts. Butwhile the conquerors abandoned themselves to the licence of plunderand intemperance, their fleet, that lay with a slender guard in theharbour of Piræus, was unexpectedly attacked by the brave Dexip-pus, who flying with the engineer Cleodamus from the sack ofi • Athens, collected a hasty band of volunteers, peasants as well assoldiers, and in some measure avenged the calamities of hisCountry ravage But this exploit, whatever lustre it might shed on the declining threa"nluiy. age or~ Athens, served rather to irritate than to subdue the undauntedspirit of the northern invaders. A general conflagration blazed outat the fame time, in every district of Greece. Thebes and Argos,Corinth and Sparta, that had formerly waged such memorable warsagainst each other, were now unable to bring an army into the field,or even to defend their ruined fortifications. The rage of war,both by land and by sea, spread from the eastern point of Suniam,< .' t© the western coast of Epirus. The Goths had already advancedwithin sight of Italy, when the approach of such imminent dangerawakened the indolent Gallienus from his dream of pleasure. Theemperor appeared in arms; and his presence seems to have checkedthe ardour, and to have divided the strength of the enemy. Nau-Their divi- lobatus, a chief of the Heruli, accepted an honourable capitula-tre"t.and ™ iion, entered with a large body of his countrymen into the serviceof Rome, and was invested with the ornaments of the consular dig­ nity,