OCR Output CHAP. $. ROMAN HISTORY. 451 aid against the Gauls. The tradition is, that the Gauls,charmed with the excellent fruits, and especially with.the'delicious wines of Italy, which they had never tastedbefore, crossed the Alps, and seized upon lands whichhad formerly been in possession of the Etrurians; andthat Arunx, a Clusian, had imported wine into Gaul, toentice that nation to make the invasion, out of resent­ment that Lucumo had debauched his wife, in return forhis attention as his tutor, and from whom he could getno satisfaction, his interest being very considerable, un­less he was supported bv foreign aid: in consequence ofi.which, that he conducted the Gauls over the Alps, and*^advised them to the siege of Clusium. I will not pretend to say, that the Gauls might haveLeen brought to Clusium by this Arunx, or some otherinhabitant of the place; but it is very certain, that thosewho laid siege to Ciusium were not the first who hadcrossed the Alps: for the Gauls had found the way toItaly, two hundred years before the siege of Clusium,or the capture of Rome. .Nor was it these Etrurianswhom the Gaulic troops first encountered, but long be­fore, who inhabit the country between the Appeninesand the Alps, with whom they were frequently at war.. The Tuscan dominions were of considerable extent, \both by sea and la,nd, before the Roman empire existed.'From the upper to the lower sea, by which Italy is sur­rounded in the form of an island, their very names as­certain the mighty power of this people, the nations ofItaly calling the one the Tuscan, from the general nameof the people, and the other the Adriatic sea, from Adria,a Tuscan colony. The Greeks call them the Tyrrhe­nian and Adriatic seas. This people, in twelve cities, in­habited the countries-along the coasts of both seas, andby sending out colonies equal in number to their mo-/ -t.her cities, first on this side of the Appenines towards^the lower sea, and afterwards as many on the other side,possessed all the country beyond the Po, excepting a cor­ner belonging to the Venetians, who dwelt round & bayof the sea, as far as the Alps. Nor can it be doubted,but this too was the origin of the Alpine nations, espe­cially the Rhetae, whom the situation of their countryhath rendered so wil;{, that they retain nothing of their.