OCR Output 'Chap. VII. ' WARS or THE JEWS. 371 queathed to them in his testaments; but, besides that, Caesargranted to Herod's two virgin daughters five hundred thousand[drachmae] of silver, and gave them in marriage to the sons ofFheroras: but after this family distribution, he gave be足tween them what had been bequeathed to him by Herod, which'was a thousand talents, reserving to himself only some inconsi足derable presents, in honour of the deceased. CHAP. VII. The history of the spurious Alexander. Archelaus is banished,and Glaphyra dies, after what was to happen to both of themhad been shewed them in dreams. f 1. TN the mean time there was a man, who was by birth aX "Jew, but brought up at Sidon with one of the Romanfreed-men, who falsely pretended, on account of the resemblanceof their countenances, that he was that Alexander who was slainby Herod. This man came to Rome, in hopes of not being de足tected. He had one who was his assistant, of his own nation, andwho knew all the affairs of the kingdom, and instructed him tosay, how those that were sent to kill him and Aristobulus hadpity upon them, and stole them away, by putting bodies thatwere like theirs in their places. This man deceived the Jewsthat were at Crete, and got a great deal of money of them fortravelling in splendour; and thence sailed to Melos, where he wasthought so certainly genuine, that he got a great deal more mo足ney, and prevailed with those that had treated him to sail along*with him to Rome. So he landed at Dicearchia, [Piiteoii], andgot very large presents from the Jews who dwelt there, and wasconducted by his father's friends as if he were a king; nay, theresemblance ia his countenance procured him so much credit,that those who had seen Alexander, and had known him verywell, would take their oaths that he was the very same person.Accordingly, the whole body of the Jews that were atRome, ranout in crowds to see him, and an innumerable multitude therewas which stood in the narrow places, through which he wascarried; for those of Melos were so far distracted, that theycarried him in a sedan, and maintained a royal attendance forhim at their own proper charges. 2. But Caesar, who knew perfectly -well the lineaments ofAlexander's face, because he had been accused by Herod beforehim, discerned the fallacy in his countenance, even before he sawthe man. However, he suffered the agreeable fame that wentof him to have some weight with him, and sent Celedus, onewho well knew Alexander, and ordered him to bring the young 3 A 2 map