OCR Output 20 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. promenade, though not necessarily connected with agymnasium, but perhaps rather with another palacewhich occupied " this extremity of the Upper City"for the name was given also to a terraced walk withcolonnades attached to Roman villas. (Vitruv. v. 11.) (6) The House of the Asmonaeans was above theXystus, and was apparently occupied as a palace bythe Younger Agrippa; tor, when he addressed themultitude assembled in the Xystus, he placed hissister Berenice in the house of the Asmonaeans, thatshe might be visible to them. (B. J. I. r.) (7) The Causeway. At the Xystus we are tolda causeway (yitpvpd) joined the Temple to the UpperCity, and one of the Temple gates opened on to thiscauseway. That the yt<f>vpa was a causeway andnot a bridge, is evident from the expression of Jo-sephus in another passage, where he says that thevalley was interrupted or filled up, for the passage(t?)S <p&payyos et* bioBov itK(tKnfjLfJ.4yT}s, Ant xv.11. § 5.). As the Tyropoeon divided the Upperfrom the Lower City, and the Temple Mount wasattached to the Lower, it is obvious that the Tyro­poeon is the valley here mentioned. This earth-wall or embankment, was the work of Solomon,and is the only monument of that great king inJerusalem that can be certainly said to have escapedthe ravages of time; for it exists to the present day,serving the same purpose to the Mahometans asformerly to the Jews: the approach to the Moskenclosure from the Bazaars passes over this cause­way, which is therefore the most frequented thorough­fare in the city. (Williams, Hohj City, vol. ii.pp. 392 397, and note, pp. 601 —607.) It is highly probable that the Xystus was nothingelse than the wide promenade over this mound,adorned with a covered cloister between the trees,with which the Rabbinical traditions assure us thatSolomon's causeway was shaded. It is clear thatthe north wall of the Upper City must have crossedthe valley by this causeway to the Gate ShaUechcth,which is explained to mean the Gate of the Embank­ment. (1 Chron. xxvi. 16.) (8) The Council- Chamber (&ov\i], /3ooAf ktt;-piov) is the next place mentioned on the northernline of wall, as the point where it joined the westernportico of the Temple. And it is remarkable thatthe corresponding office in the modem town occupiesthe same site; the Mehkemeh, or Council-Chamber ofthe Judicial Divan, being now found immediatelyoutside the Gate of the Chain, at the end of thecauseway, corresponding in position to the ShaUe­chcth of the Scriptures. We have now to trace the wall of the Upper Cityin the opposite direction from the same point, vi/..the Hippie Tower at the NW. angle. The pointsnoticed are comparatively few. *' It first ran south­ward (i.e. with a western aspect), through a placecalled Itethso, to the Gate of the Essenes; then,turning E., it ran (with a southern aspect) abovethe fountain of Siloam; thence it bent northward,and ran (with an eastern asjiect) to the Pool ofSolomon, and extending as far as a place calledOphla, was joined to the eastern cloister of theTemple." ii. On the West Front neither of the names whichoccur are found nt;ain in the notices of the city: butllethso may safely be assigned to the site of thegarden of the Armenian Convent, and the Gate ofthe Esaenes may be fixed to a spot not verv farfrom the SW. corner of the modern city, a little tothe W. of the Tomb of David, near which a re­ markable ridge seems still to indicate the fonndations of the ancient city wall. iii. Along the south face of the Upper City tinold wall may still be traced, partly by searj>ed rocland partly by foundations of the ancient wall, whirlhave served as a quarry for the repairs of the neiuhbourinc: buildings for many ages. Its course fronthis point to the Temple is very difficult to determine, as the steep declivity to the Tyrop^-on woultmake it extremely inconvenient to carry the wall iia straight line, while, on the contrary, the absenoof all notice of any deviation from a direct line in idescription in which the angles are uniformly notedwould seem to imply that there was no such deflection in its course. As it is clear, however, that thiUpper City was entirely encompassed with a wall oits own, nowhere noticed by Jusephus, except so fa.as it was coincident with the outer wall, it may t-safely conjectured that this east wall of the Upi**City followed the brow of the ridge from the southeast arii'le of the Hill Sion, along a line nearly ci>incident with the aqueduct; while the main waH continned its easterly course down the steep slope oSion, across the valley of the Tyropoeon, not fkfrom its mouth,—a little above the Pool of Siloam,—and then up the ridge Ophel, until it reached thebrow of the eastern valley. It may serve to countenance this theory to observe, that in the accotraof this wall in Nehemiah there is mention of " tbistairs that go down from the city of David," bjwhich stairs also the procession went up when encompassing the city wall. (iii. 15, xii. 37.) iv. The further course of the old wall to thieastern cloister of the Temple is equally obscure, aithe several points specified in the description are nocapable of identification by any other notices. The*are the Pool of Solomon and a place called Ophla, iithe description already cited, to which may be addedfrom an incidental notice, the Basilica of Grapte oMonobazus. (/;../. v. 8. $ 1.) The Pool of Solomon lias been sometimes identitled with the Fountain of the Virgin, from whiclthe Pool of Siloam is supplied, and sometimewith that very pool. Both solutions are tinsatisfactory, for Siloam would scarcely be mentioned isecond time in the same pa^sa^e under a not bename, and the fountain in question cannot, with anpropriety, be called a pool. The place called Ophla — in Scripture Opkel —is commonly supped to Ik* the southern spur ethe Temple Mount, a narrow rocky ridge extendindown to Siloam. But it is more certain that it iused in a restricted sense in this passage, than thiit is ever extended to the whole ridge. (S-e HoiCity, vol. ii. p. 365, note 7.) It was apparentlylar_v fortified building, to the south of the Tempi*connected with an outlying tower (AVAcw*. iii. *2'28), and probably situated near the southern extrtrm'ty of the present area of the Mosk of Omar. Anthe massive angle of ancient masonry at the Srcorner of the enclosure, " impending over the Valleof Jehoshaphat, which here actually bends soutiwest round the comer, having a depth of aboi:130 feet," may possibly have belonged to the 11 oatlying tower," as it presents that appearance wit hi(//. C. vol. h. pp. 311, 317). H is clear, in any eas*that the wall under consideration must have joinnthe eastern cloister of the Temple somewhere to ttnorth of this an*:le, as the bend in the valley indcated by Dr. Robinson would have precluded U:possibility of a junction at this angle.