OCR Output 10 ESSAY ON THE ries are told even about Thucydides, of such a carefu, choice respecfring substantives and infinitives; but Tacitus lived at an age whichwas much richer in the rules of grammar and rhetoric, and, as wasnatural for a Roman, he strove more earnestly than the Greeks torender his style as effective as possible. Wherefore to that hurriedbreviloquence, to which he was led by the impulses of his nature, hesuperadded all the ornaments of learning, art and taste, not fearingthe appearance or the reproach of a labored brevity, but freely reject­ing the merit of a plain, pure and natural style. Now this brevity isseen in choosing the shortest words which will express the thoughts,in omitting as many words as possible, and finally in condensing thesentences themselves within the smallest possible compass. 3. To commence with the smallest matters, he generally prefers theshorter forms of words to the longer, sometimes contrary to commonusage. Few, I think, use simple ut for velut, as if, as he does inAnn. II., 34; HI., 9; or for front, Ann. I., 61; Hist. II., 46: quafor quatenus, since, even at the hazard of obscurity, Ann. VI., 10;XL, 8 ; XV., 72; Hist. II., 31: super for insuper, Hist. II., 34. Forthe same reason he often used ne, where the common rule requiredut non, e. g., Ann. II., 29. Ita moderans ne lenire neve asperarecrimina viderelur, Add. XL, 15, 29 ; XII., 47 ; XVI., 4 ; Hist. EI.,11. If we can put confidence in the MSS. he also often used quefor quoque. See in Ann. IV., 74; VI., 33; XII., 35. Tacitus often manifests a sort of dislike for substantives ending infto; for besides their length they are somewhat barren of meanincHe therefore prefers aemulalus, dispositus, advectus, and such likewords, to aemulatio, and those of a similar form. Hence I havedefended diversus in Ann. XIII., 9; and pulsus in Hist. IV., 18, asthe true reading. Elsewhere he is wont also to employ the primitivenoun in place of the derivative, as in Ann. VI., 5, Dial. 3, fdbulaefor confabulaliones; G. 26, fenus fovfeneratw; Hist. II., 2, audew-tioribus spatiis for spatiationiius. And since the use of deponentverbs had long prevailed, by which means the language was virtuallyrobbed of an equal number of passive verbs and thereby impoverished,Tacitus did not hesitate to return to the ancient signification of suchwords, and to use passives that were obsolete in his age, gaining theadvantage of brevity, and, at the same time, the appearance of an­tiquity. Hence adipisci is used passively in Ann. XV., 12 ; opperiri,Ann. XI.,' 26; ulcisci, Ann. I., 9 ; and palari, Hist. III., 80; perhapsalso fateri, Dial. 25. 4. The use of simple words ii stead of compound is very extensive,In which Tacitus vies with poets. The principle of this license isno other than to substitute the genus for the species ; for instance,