OCR Output PARMA. 551 PAROLISSUM. panose, ai a curiosity, that there existed at Pa-naa i aadt called the Ophiogenes ('(tyioTfarff),UttMmbtfi of which, like the Librae Psjlli, had it ■ tfcnr jam to core the bite of a snake by merelyttacfap the person that had been bitten. Parium ■ ■IwaatMBad in Herod, t. 117; Xenoph. A nab.fil}7,l§l6; Ptol. v. 2. § 2 : Appian, Mdkrid, JMt, L 19; Polyaen. ri 24. The presentlaw «ccapriB|r the site of Purium bears the name ofImtr or A"iarea, and contains a few ancient re-■ia The wills fronting the sea still remain, anda»talt of Urge square blocks of marble, withoutawtar. There are also rains of an aqueduct, reser-•wj for nier, and the fallen architraves of a por-Tbt aodern name Kamarts 6eems to be de-)M Iran i«Df ancient subterraneous buildingsfactan.) which still exi*t in the place. (Walpole,IW4rj, pt fit; Sestfni, AW Fet. p. 73.) [L. S.] OOIX OF PABIL'M. FARMA (no>aa: £YA. Parmeasis: Parmn), atf cMialaa i.Vpa'lana. situated on the Via Aemilia,MrlietiBpeof I!* M. ]'. baa Bsfran Lepidum,■MfraBPlarentia. (/ftn. ^ai. p. 286.) [twas15 mil« distant from the Padua, on theof a imall stream called the Parma, fromit probably derived its name; and about 6the more considerable Tarns or Taro.mention of the name before the establish-•f the Human colony, though it is Tery pro-bt there already existed a Gaulish town or« the ipot: bat in B. c. 183, after therakjoration of tJje Boii, and the construc-hi Via Aemilia, the ltomana proceeded totheir footing in this part of Gaul bythe cotoniea of Matina and Parma, alongaf the newly opened highway, which, inwith the two previously existing coloniesand Placentia, formed a continuous chaintowns, from one end to the other of theParma was a "colonia cmum," itstheir privileges as Roman citizens;in the first instance 2000 colonists, eachkuined 8 jogera of land for his allotment. 55.) We bear little of Parma for sometfaia: it ts mentioned incidentally in B.C.* head-qoarters of the proconsul C. Clau-*&. 17); bat appears to have sufferedthe wars with the Gaols and Lignrians;ft** with rapidity to be a flourishing andta*n. Bat its name is scarcely men-till the period of the Civil' Wars,a ■evere blow, having in n. c. 43part in favour of the senatorial■* M. Antony, in consequence of which itr hv that general, and plundered in the•anas* Banner by his troops. (Cic. ailja,xil3,VxiL5,/*aZxiv.3, 4.) CiceroBooth* occasion a Colonia, and there can■at tint it still retained that rank; butit received a fresh colony, fromthe title of Colonia Julia Augusta,I wfad it bearing in inscriptions. (Gruter,1 r **t 5; /umpt, de Colon, p. 354.) Pliny™:» » a Cvlonia, and there teems no doubt that it continued under the Roman Empire to be, asit was in the time of Strabo, one of the principaltowns of this populous and flourishing part of Italy.(Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Strab. v. p. 216; Ptol. iii. 1.§ 46; Phlegon, Macrob. 1.) But its name isscarcely mentioned in history: a proof perhaps of thetranquillity that it enjoyed. Its territory wascelebrated for the excellence of its wool, whichaccording to Martial was inferior only to thatof Apulia. (Martini, xiv. 155; Colum. vii.2. §8.)In a. l>. 377, a colony of Goths was settled by orderof Gratian in the territory of Parma, as well as theadjoining districts (Aminian. xxxi. 9. §4),— aproof that they were already suffering from a decayof the population; and it is probable that it did notescape the general devastation of the province ofAemilia by Attila, But it survived these calamities:it still bears a part as an important town during thewars of Narses with the Goths and their allies, andis noticed by P. Diaconus, as one of the wealthycities of Aemilia after the Lombard conquest.(Agath. 14 - 17; P.Diac.//u/. Lang. ii. 18.) It retained its consideration throughout the middleages, and is still a populous and flourishing placewith above 30,000 inhabitants, but has no remainsof antiquity, except a few inscriptions. The Roman poet Cassius Pannensis would appearfrom his name to have been a native of Parma,but there is no distinct testimony to this effect. The Itinerary (p. 284) mentions a line of cross­road which proceeded from Parma across the Apen­nines to Luca: this must have ascended the valleyof the Parma, or the adjoining one of the Tarus, asfar as the main ridge, and and thence descendedthe valley of the Macra to Luna, This passage,though little frequented in modern limes, is oneof the main lines of natural communication acrossthis part of the Apennines, and is in all probabilitythat followed by Hannibal on his advance intoEtruria. [E. H. B.] PARMAECAMPI (XlapnatKapvot), a trite ofSouthern Germany, on the east of Mount Abnobaand the Danube; tlicy probably occupied the dis­trict about the town of Cham in Bavaria. (Ptol. ii.11. §24.) [L.&] PAKNASSUS (Vlaprcuraii) a town in the north-em part of Cappaducia, on the right bank of theHalys, and on or near a lull, to winch it owed itsname, on the mad between Ancyra and Archelnisabout 63 miles west of the latter town. (Polvb.ixv. 4; It. Ant. pp. 144,206; /(. Uieron. p. 576;Geogr. Sacr. p. 255.) [L. S.] PARNASSUS MONS. [Delphi.] PARNES. [Attica, p. 321, seq.j PARNON. [Laconia, p. 109.] PAROIXO'POLIS (rbpMcAraAu, Ptol. iii. 13.§ 30), a town of Sintice, in Macedunia, on the rightof the river Strymon. Niyrita, on the road fr.>mSaloniki to Sere*, was cither Tristolus (ToiVtu-Aoj, Ptol. /. c.) or Paroecopolis, for these are theonly two towns besides Heracleia which Ptolemyassigns to Sintice. If Nigrita be assigned to T i-stolus, Paroecopolis will be represented by Skafitcha,which lies to the N. of the former town. (Leake,Northern Grtect, vol. iii. p. 229.) [E. R. J.] PAR0L1SSUM (napoAiffo-oF, or It^Awnr,Ptol. iii. 8. § 6: Parolissos, Tab. Pevt.; cf. Orelli,Inter. No. 3433), a municipal town of [>acia. seatednt tiic termination of the Human road towards theN. According to Marsili (ii. p. 85), Micaza; ac­cording to Manual (iv. p. 216), on the Maroechi K N 4