OCR Output A. D. 20.] ' 155 OF TACITUS. lages, and went off enriched with plunder. At length,at a place near the river Pagida, he hemmed in a Ro­man cohort, and held them closely besieged. Decrius,a gallant and experienced officer, who commanded thefort, considered the blockade as a disgrace to theRoman arms. Having exhorted his men to face theenemy on the open plain, he marched out, and formedin order of battle. At the first onset the barbariansmade an impression. The cohort gave way. Decriusbraved every danger Amidst a volley of darts, heopposed his person to ,Up the flight of his men; hecalled aloud to tiio siar.':ird-bearers, charging themnot to incur the s. i,r , 1 infamy of yielding to anundisciplined rabb .( , ie collection of runawaysand deserters. Hi were ineffectual. Covered with wounds, and , ,, ,v. pierced through, he stillpersisted with und.'.n , ' valour, till at last, aban­doned by his troops r bravely sword, in hand. XXI. Lucius Apr nm ,,\ ho had succeeded Camil-lus as proconsul ol Vi,received the account ofthis defeat with indignation. The disgrace of theRoman arms touched him more than the glory thataccrued to the barbarians. He resolved to expiatethe infamy by a dreadful punishment, founded, in­deed, upon ancient precedent, and recorded m history ;but in modern times fallen into disuse. He orderedthe cohort, whose behaviour had been so ignominious,to be deoimated : every man upon whom the lot fell,died under repeated blows of the cudgel. The conse­quence of this severity was, that a body of five hun­dred veterans, stationed in garrison at Thala, main­tained their post against the attempts of Tacfarinas,and even routed the troops lately flushed with vic­tory. In this action, Rufus Helvius, a common sol­dier, obtained the glory of saving the life of a Romancitizen. He was rewarded by Apronius with a spearand collar. Tiberius ordered the civic crown to beadded, observing, at the same time, that the proconsulhad the power of granting that reward : yet he cen­sured the omission without asperity, pleased thatsomething was reserved for himself. Tacfarinas, finding his Numidians unwilling, after