OCR Output 390 ROMAN EMPIRE. the battle, Jonas sought and found the object of his pur­suit; but her resentment was inflamed by the last act ofhis perfidy; and as Eudocia struggled in his hatefulembraces, she struck a dagger to her heart. Anotherfemale, the widow of Thomas, and the real or supposeddaughter of Heraclius, was spared and released withouta ransom: but the generosity of Caled was the effect ofhis contempt; and the haughty Saracen insulted, by amessage of defiance, the throne of the Caesars. Caledhad penetrated above a hundred and fifty miles into theheart of the Roman province: he returned to Damascuswith the same secrecy and speed. On the accession ofOmar, the sword of God was removed from the command;but the caliph, who blamed the rashness, was compelledto applaud the vigour and conduct, of the enterprise.Fairof Another expedition of the conquerors of Da-Abyia. mascus will equally display their avidity andtheir contempt for the riches of the present world. Theywere informed that the produce and manufactures ofthe country were annually collected in the fair of Abyla,'about thirty miles from the city; that the cell of a de­vout hermit was visited at the same time by a multitudeof pilgrims; and that the festival of trade and super­stition would be ennobled by the nuptials of the daughterof the governor of Tripoli. Abdallah, the son of Jaafar,a glorious and holy martyr, undertook, with a bannerof five hundred horse, the pious and profitable commis­sion of despoiling the infidels. As he approached thefair of Abyla, he was astonished by the report of themighty concourse of Jews and Christians, Greeks andArmenians, of natives of Syria and of strangers of Egypt,to the number of ten thousand, besides a guard of fivethousand horse that attended the person of the bride.The Saracens paused. For my own part (said Abdallah), * Dair Abil Kodos. After retrenching the last word, the epithet, holy, I dis­covered the Abila of Lysanias between Damascus and Heliopolis: the name(Abil signifies a vineyard) concurs with the situation to justify my conjecture.( Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 317. torn, 2. p. 5?5. 527.)