OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 2» * CHAP. VIII. Concerning Herod's death, and testament, and burial. * I. A ND now Herod altered his testament upon the altera-** tion of his mind 5 for he appointed Antipas, to whomhe had before left the kingdom, to be tetrarch of Galilee andPerea, and granted the kingdom to Archelaus. He also gaveGaulonitis, and Trachonitis, and Paneas to Philip, who was hisson, but own brother * to Archelaus, by the name of tetrarchy ;and bequeathed Jamnia, and Ashdod, and Phasaelis, to Salomehis sister, with five hundred thousand [drachmae] of silver thatwas coined. He also made provision for all the rest of his kind­red, by giving them sums of money and annual revenues, and soleft them all in a wealthy condition. He bequeathed also to Cae­sar ten millions [of drachmae] of coined money, besides both ves­sels of gold and silver, and garments exceeding costly, to Julia,Caesar's wife ; and to certain others, five millions. When hehad done these things, he died, the fifth day after he had causedAntipater to be slain; having reigned, since he had procured An-tigonus f to be slain, thirty-four years ; but since he had beendeclared king by the Romans, thirty-seven. A man he was ofgreat barbarity towards all men equally, and a slave to his pas­sion ; but above the consideration of what was right: yet washe favoured by fortune as much as any man ever was, for froma private man he became a king ; and though he were encom­passed with ten thousand dangers, he got clear of them all, andcontinued his life till a very old age. But then, as to the affairsof his family and children, in which indeed, according to hisown opinion, he was also very fortunate, because he was able toconquer his enemies, yet, in my opinion, he was herein veryunfortunate. 2. But then Salome and Alaxis, before the king's death wasmade known, dismissed those that were shut up in the hippo­drome, * When it is here said, that Philip the tetrarch, and Archelaus the king, orfthnarch, were &Ktfm yntui, or genuine brothers, if those words mean ownbrothers, or born ot the same father and mother, there must be here some mis­take; because they had indeed the same father, Herod, but different mothers;the former Cleopatra, and Archelaus Malthace, They were indeed brought spaltogether at Some like own brothers; and Philip was Archelaus's deputy whenhe went to have his kingdom confirmed to him at Rome: ch. ix. § 5. Of the War,B. IF. ch ii. § I.; which intimacy is perhaps all that Josephus intended by thewords before us. t These numbers of years for Herod's reign, 34 and 37, are the very samewith those of the War, B. 1. ch. xxxiii. § 8. and are among the principal chro­nological characters belonging to the reign or death of Herod. See,Harm. ofthe Evang-. page 150—155.