OCR Output OLYMPUS. 479 OLYMPUS. ■(use Men. There wis a similar object for--itratf bona both »t the Corinthian Isthmusal it Seas, in consequence of which the difficultyi lit nee in increased. Beyond the Taraxippusfr> it terminal pillars, called stWoj, round whichlit din* timed. On one of them stood a brazenfiiv i Hippodsmeia about to bind the taenia onslier bis victory. The other side of the Hip-hs<:> »«s > Mtnnl height of no great elevation.IS Hi rrjemitj stood the temple of DemeterOam. (Pun. f i. JO. § 15—v. 21. § 1.) Thecr» <i the Hippodrome appears to have been twoosii, «r faor stadia. (ApoViOu Si eicn rov iirrlovtin fit IwKm tit, 1'aus. vi. 16. § 4.) Mure,•M (wi. i p. 327), nnderstands nijicoi in thisawttitt refer to toe length of the area; but LeakeIMfmauea, p. 94) maintains, with more pruba-bfcr, Iks; it ripunes the length of the circuit. B Tut Tamfre is mentioned by XenophonOU li 4. § 31), but it does not occur in thetwritst of Piusanias. A theatre existed also at*> l™» mi Delphi, and would have been equally■si it tilrmpa for musical contests. Xenophonsail IjrilT have been mistaken as to the existence'•'ism st Olympu, as he resided more than 20■n it .Sal/m. which was only three miles from■farsrr spot It would therefore appear thatwmn toe tine of Xenophon and Pausanias thesw> tsj disappeared, probably in consequence of» - il c<it«>ts having been discontinued,leus the buildings already mentioned, there• i »7 Isnje number of statues in every part ofb) Jseid Grove, many of which were made by» r>s:e>t masters of Grecian art, and of whichkaaaii bss given a minute description. Accord-t* tie ngne computation of Pliny (xxxiv. 7.•7) ~>n vere more than 3000 statues at Olym-I swat cf these works were of brass, which ac-'• ' >;iMi'p»'ar.ir!Cc. as they were con-3!o objects of common utility upon theof raevuwn. The temples and otherat Olympia were, like many others inparts of Greece, used as materials forbtildiags, more especially as quarries ofem ia the district of Klis. The chiefs ofil Albanian colony at Lala had in par'a»f explored the ruins of Olympia for this article is confined to the topographyAa account of the games and of every-'with their celebration is given in'/ Amtipdtia."tfsipia. Loud. 1824; Kranse, Ohjm-Hare, Tom- in Greece, vol. ii. p. 280,P'iopcntetiaca, p. 4, seq.; Curtius,v«Lii. p. 51, seq.)■I W S ('OAspmn). 1. One of the loftiest153 o lireece, of which the southern side*• wwawlary of Theasaly, while its northernthe plains of Macedonia. Hence it is-i J n. <un:airi of Macedonia (Stnib.PtuL iii. 13. § 19), and sometimes aTbeamfy. (Herod, vii. 128; Plin. iv.■i 11 forms the eastern extremity of thertafe. and extends to the sea as far asal the Peneius, being separated by thefan the heights of Ossa. Xenagorns,the perpFodicuUr height of OlympusP'wwa of Pythram, ascertained its elevntion■> stada od nearly one plethrum (Plut.>*); wtieh Holland, Doclwell, Leake, and others regard as not far from the truth, since theyestimate its height to be between six and seventhousand feet. But these writers have considerablyundercalculated its elevation, which is now ascer­tained to be 9754 feet Herodotus relates that Jit.Olympus was seen by Xerxes from Therma (vii.128); and we know from modern travellers thatin clear weather il is visible from Mt. Athos, whichis 90 miles distant. (Journ. Geogr. Soc. vol. vii.p. 69.) All travellers, who have visited Mt. Olym­pus, dwell with admiration upon its imposing gran­deur. One of the most striking descriptions of itsappearance is given by Dr. Holland, who beheld itfrom JMokltoro at its base :—" We had not beforebeen aware of the extreme vicinity of the town tothe base of Olympus: but when leaving it, andaccidentally looking back, we saw through an openingin the fog, a faint outline of vast precipices, seemingalmost to overhang the place; and so aerial in theiraspect, that for a few minutes we doubted whether itmight not be a delusion to the eye. The fog, how­ever, dispersed yet more on this side, and partialopenings were made, through which, as througharches, we saw the sunbeams resting on the snowysummits of Olympus, which rose into a dark bluesky far above the belt of clouds and mist that hungupon the sides of the mountain. The transientview we had of the mountain front this point showedus a line of precipices of vast height, forming itseastern front toward the sea; and broken at intervalsby deep hollows or ravines, which were richly clothedwith forest trees. The oak, chestnut, beech, plane-tree, &c, are seen in great abundance along the baseand skirts of the mountain; and towards the sum­mit of the first ridge, large forests of pine spreadthemselves along the acclivities. Behind this firstridge, others rise up and recede towards the loftiercentral heights of Olympus. Almost opposite thetown of Litdklioro, a vast ravine penetrates into theinterior of the mountain, through the opening ofwhich we saw, though only for a few minutes, what Iconceive to be the summit,—from this point of view,with a somewhat concave ascending line on eachside." (Holland, TraceU, vol. ii. p. 27.) Thoughthe lower sides of Olympus are well wooded, thesummit presents a wide extent of a bare light-coloured rock. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i.p. 434.) The broad summit of Olympns is alludedto by Homer, who gives to it the epithet of uwcp6smore frequently than any other. Next to that, isa-,aino <s (/(*. i. 420), fiom its being covered withsnow during the greater part of the year. Hesiotl(Theog. 118) also gives it the epithet of s-upderr.Below the summit its rugged outline is broken intomany ridges and precipices, whence Homer describesit as woAooeipdr. (/s\ i. 499, v. 754.) The forests,which covered the lower sides of Olympus, are fre­quently alluded to by the ancient poets. (woAiiSfs'-Spos, Eurip. Bacch. 560; Ossae froiuhtum involveroOlympum, Yirg. Georg. 281; opacut Olympus, Hor.Carm. iii. 4. 52.) The mountain is now calledE'tymbo, i. e. "EAufiwov, by the surrounding inhabi­tants, which name Leake observes is probably not amodem corruption, but the ancient dialectic form, forthe Aeolic tribes of Greece often substituted theepsilon for the omicron, as in the instance of 'Opxo-Htvds, which the Boeotians called *Lpxou.ev6s. (Dod­well, Tour through Greece, vol. ii. p. 105; Leake,Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 341,407.) Olympuswas believed to be the residence of Zens and the othergods; and as its summit rose above the clouds into