OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. divinity with ceremonies peisectly proper, call me by a true ap­pellation qiueri lsi»." Page 147. S.v This divinity, aswe leani from Plutarch in his treatise of llis md Osuis, and Porphyry on Oracles as citedby Euscbius, 13 the same with the Fluto m£ the Greeks. Page 147. Æg':i:a the J^ugiur if Jf.fus'iuat rtivi/iu!ly Ju­piter."] What are we to understand by this relation ? 1 i.ut thiswas once actually the cafe? But to suppose this would bt absurdin the extr eme. Ac all such relations therefore are very far frombeing literally ti ue, we should consider them as fables in whichsome mysterious meaning is involved ;—a moaning which fromits sublime nature ought to be concealed froin the vulgar, as theireyes are too weak to sustain the splendours of the highest truths.By ravishment and adultery then between divine and human na­tures, ancient theologilts meant to insinuate that communicationof energy between the two which we have taken notice of in aformer note, in which we shewed how heroes may be laid to herthe sons of go'Js :wd goddesses. But as this communication ofenergy takes plate through angels, dæmons, and essential heroesks mediums, he:;ce the Jupiter mentioned in this fable must beconsidered as a '"xmon'ccal power of the scr-ies of Jupiter, whoby giving perfection to the natural life of Ægina, and removingevery thing which would be an hnp.ediruent to the feetus in hepwomb, was said to have ravished her. Page 147. Sifypbet.] The following beautiful passage - fromthe MSS. Scholia of OKmpicrlorus on the Gorgias of Plato fullyunfolds the meaning cf the fable refpectingthe punistuncut of Si­syphus. For the original of this pafl'age 1 refer the reader to myDissertation on thelv'Iysteries, p. 45. "Ulysses,''Jays he, "de­scending into .Hades, saw among others Sisyphus, and Ticyus andTantalus ; and Tityus he. law lying on the earrii, and a vj turedevouring his liver; the. liver liquifying that he lived solelyaccording to the deiiderative p<jJtof hi*nature, and through *hiswas indeed internally prudent; but earth signifying the terrestrial Vol. III. U condition