OCR Output LCGEUS LACUS.215 LUNA. tliem would certainly not be conclusive againstLfkUa. lint remains have been dug up in thein^irlibourhood of Leiden, and an inscription of thetime of Septimius Severus. (Ukcrt, Galium, p.534.) [G. L.] • LU'GEUS LACUS (AoiVyeo' Jaos), a lake inthe kind of the lapodes in Illyricum, now LakeZirbtitz. (Strab. vii. p. 314.) 1.1'GIDU'NUM (Kouyl&ourov), a town in the eastof Germany, the site of which must be looked for inSilesia, either at BresUm or Liegnitz. (Ftol. ii. 11. § as.) [L. s.] LU'GIL [Lyon] LUGIO^XUM (fiDuyiovov), a town in the southof Pannonia Inferior, was the capital of a district.(Ptol. iL 16. § 5.) In the Peuting. Table it iscalled Lugio. and it is, perhaps, to be looked for onthe site of the modern Batia, at the entrance of theSarriz into the Danube. [L. S.] Ll'GUVALLUM, or LUGUVALLIUM (Anton.Ilia.), LUGUBALUM (Ravennas), now Carlisle.This town is not mentioned by Ptolemy; neither doesit occur in the Notitia. The reason of its omissionin the latter work may be, that, although it standsupon the line of the Wall, the proximity of the greatcastrx, as well as its own strength and population,rendered a fixed garrison unnecessary. Beda (inVila S. Cuthberti, c. 8) describes Saint Culhbert onhis visit to Lugubalia, as being shown the walls ands fountain built by the Romans; " venit ad Luguba-liun civitatem, quae a populis Anglorum corruptoLloI vocatur, ut alloqucretur reginam. Postera au-tein die deducentibus earn civibus ut videret moeniacivitatis, fontemque in ea miro quondam Komanorumopere exstructum." Leland (Itin. vol. vii. p. 54),after speaking of the Roman architectural ami otherre:nains often brought to light in Carlisle, adds," theh>le site of the towne is sore changid. For wher asthe stretes were and great edifices now be vacantand garden plottes." But few remaini, if any, ofthe Roman town are, at the present day, to be no­ticed; but whenever excavations are mado to anyconsiderable depth, the foundations of the buildingsof Lognvallum are almost always met with. Veryrecently a deep drain having been sunk on the northtide of the castle, the course of the Great Wall hasbeen ascertained; previously, the direction it tookfrom Slnnvrix. where there was a fortified camp, wasascertain, as above ground in the immediate vicinityof Carlisle, it has been entirely pulled dowD. [C.R.S.]LUMBERITA'NI. [Vasco.nes.]LUNA (Aowro, Strab. Antra, Ptol.: Sennit«Ui», Steph. B.: Eth. Lunensis: Luni). a city ofEmma, situated on the left bank of the Macra, a■rwrt distance from its mouth, and consequently onthe rery borders of Liguria. There is indeed con­siderable discrepancy among ancient authors as towhether it was an Etruscan or a Ligurian city;tad it is probable that this arose not only from thecircumstance of its position on the immediate frontierof the two countries, but from its having been suc­cessively occupied and held by both nations. Plinycalls it " the first city qf Etruria:" and Strabo be­fits to reckon the Etrurian coast from thence : Pto­lemy also mentions it first in order among the cities ofEtroria; while Mela, on the contrary, assigns it totbe Ligoriana. (" Luna Liguruin." Mel. ii. 4. § 9;Strab. v. p. 222 ; Phil, iii. 5. s. 8; Ptol. iii. 1. § 4.)Frr<m the time indeed when the Macra became theestablished limit between Liguria and Etruria, thereomlii U no doubt as to Luna being geographically included within the latter country: but it is certainthat when the Romans first came into collision withthe Ligurians, that people was in possession of Lunaand the surrounding territory, and indeed held thewhole country from the Macra to the mouth of theArnus. (Pol. ii. 16; Liv. xxxiv. 56; xxxix. 32,&c.) Livy, however, tells us that the territory ofLuna, in which the Roman colony was founded, andwhich had been taken by them from the Ligurians,had previously belonged to the Etruscans (Liv.xli. 13), and this seems to be the true explanationof the case. Both Luna and Luca, with tbe wholeof the fertile and level country adjoining them atthe foot of the Apennines, seem to have really be­longed to the Etruscans during the height of theirpower, but had fallen into the hands of the Ligu­rians, before that people came into contact withRome. We have, however, scarcely any account ofLuna as an Etruscan city, no Etruscan remainshave been found there, and there is certainly nofoundation for the views of some modern writerswho have supposed it to be one of the chief cities ofEtruria, and one of the twelve that composed theLeague. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. p. 79.) The first historical mention of Luna itself (asdistinguished from its more celebrated port) is thatof its capture by the Romans under Domitius Cal-vinus (Frontin. Strab. iii. 2. § 1); but the date ofthis event, which is not noticed by Livy, cannot l>efixed with any approach to certainty. Hence, thefirst fact in its history of which we have any positiveinformation, is the establishment there of a Romancolony in B. c. 177 (Liv. xli. 13), if at least we aroto adopt in that passage the reading of " Lunam"for " Lucain," which lias been received by the latesteditors of Livy. (Madvig, de Colon, p. 287.) Itsterritory is mentioned rei*ate<lly in conjunction withthat of Pisae. as .having been laid waste by theneighbouring Ligurians. (Liv. xxxiv. 56, xli. 19,xliii. 9.) It appears that the two districts adjoinedone another, so that tho Pisans, in B. o. 169, com­plained of the encroachments of the Roman colonistson their territory. (Id. xlv. 13.) But, notwith­standing this colony, Luna seems not to have riseninto any importance: Lucau indeed represents it asin a state of complete decay at the period of theCivil War (desertae moeniii Lunne, I.man, i. 586);and though it received a fresh colony under theSecond Triumvirate, it was still in Strabo's timebut a smalt and inconsiderable city. (Lib. Colon.p. 223; Strab. v. p. 222.) No historical notice ofit is found under trie Roman Empire, but its con-tinned existence down to the fifth century is attestedby Pliny, Ptolemy, the Itineraries, and Rutilius, aswell as by inscriptions found on the spot. (Plin.iii. 5. s.8; Ptol iii. 1. §4: Jtin. Ant. p. 293;Itin. Marit. p. 501 ; Rutil. Itin. ii. 63—68.) Welearn also that it was celebrated for its wine, whichwas reckoned the best in Etruria (Tin:, xiv. s. 8.§ 67), as well as for its cheeses, which were of vastsize, some of them weighing as much jus a thousandpounds. (Plin. xi. 42. s. 97; Martial, xiii. 30.)But the chief celebrity of Luna in imperial timeswas derived from its quarries of white marble, thesame now known as Carrara marble, and whichwas considered equal, if not supe>ior in quality, tothe finest Greek marbles. It is first mentioned asemployed at Rome for building purposes in the timeof Caesar, anil from the age of Augustus onwardswas very extensively employed, as may still be seenin tho Pantheon, the Pyramid of Caius Cestius, P 4