OCR Output TAPROBANE. TAPROBANE. 1003 ■njof the Holy Law, which u confirmed by anotherw of unloeous character, Andrasiinundu (Ptol.promontory now called Calpentyn (Mannert, ji. 211). The ancient city noticed by Pliny,i, tlic royal palace, must be that elsewhere called^••ypummon, and by the natives Anurdjdjmra, n>vil seat of empire from b. c. 267 to a. d. * (M'lhavuuso, Intr. p. bti.). (For other de--ra yf Palaesimundu, bee Dud well, JJtisert. Gtogr. J/ifl p. 95; Wahl, Krdbetchr. ii. p. 684;audut, ilnc. /£>/at. de« /iu4m, p. 133; Malte-m, Prku He Giogr. iv. 113; Mannert, i. p. 210;Moo-a-St. Birth, Voyage aux Indts, ii. p. 432.)p conjecture of Wilford {At. Ret. x. p. 148): it if ay be Sumatra, and of Hecren (Soc. Reg.tng. voL vii. p. 32) that it is the town offltfemoUe," do not need refutation.'Le other names which this island has bornenu to have been as follow: SaJice, with its in-ftintt, the Salae, Serendivus, Sielediba, Sereitdib,in, Ceylon. These are all closely connnectedin reality euphonic modifications of one ori-.? f->rm. The first, Sal ice, — perhaps more cor-Ir Saline,— which seems to have been in user. h->lemy wrote the common name of Taprobane•X > certainly derivable from Sinala, the Palid Sinttala {Afahavr. cap. vii. p. 50): from thisId naturally come the 2itAe of Cosmos (Cosm.rnpL Lc.% the termination of this name,8t$a, being:nff more tlian the Sanscrit dwipa, an island.:n the same neighbourhood the LakkaaVtw andfcar bland*.) The slight and common inter-Ce of the L and K gives the Serendivus oftoanus (xxii. 7). From this, again, we obtain■we modern forms of the Arabic, Dutch, and Sinhala would mean the abode of lions—a «ord is found with the same sense, and theSinptiaio, in the narrative of* the Chinese travel-rtw visited Ceylon in a. d. 412. (Foc-koue-ki, p. 328, Annot. p. 336). Beside* these4 there is one other whereby alone this islandwn in the sacred Brahtninical writings. Thismta (see MaJiubh. ii. 30, v. 1177, iii. c 278,It it moat likely that this name had pastedfane befere the time of Alexander, as it is nut> r.rd hy any of the classical writers: it has.however, preserved by the Buddhists, as mayn from the notices in the A/ahawatuo (pp. 2,1 \c).(Comp. also Colebroukc, £u.ii.p.427;■ ra At. Ret. iL p. 229.)y*tei is a rery mountainous island, the greater» being grouped towards the southern end,'r.mnp thereby the watershed for most of its- The ancients had a tolerably accurate know-'4 the position of these hills. To the N. wereHiajtea Galibi, terminating in a promontorytVffvam (now Cope Pedro), and overlooking'""ipal capital, Anurajdpura. To the S. thectain was known by tlie generic name of Afalea,a fbnn derived from the Sanscrit Mala,islam. The centre of this group is the well-= A'iam't Peak—in the native Pali language,id A'bM (the Mountain of the Gods) (Upham,of Boott of Ceylon, iii. p. 202), and the high**w called Neatra-Ellin. • (rincipaJ rivers of Ceylon, as known to the•, were the Fhasis, which flowed from the 'iiiibi in a northern direction; the Gangesy<tkirak' Ganga), the chief of all thera whereby the inland is watered, the prin-Ktirce of which is in the S. range, of which Adams Peak is the pre-eminent mountain (Brookeon AfaJtattlla- Ganga, Roy. Geograph. Journ. iii.p. 223), and whose course is nearly KK.; theBaraces, which rose in the 31. Malea, and flowedSE. ; and tlie Soanas, which flows from the samosource in a westerly direction. Besides these riverswas the celebrated lake called Megisba. the size ofwhich has been extravagantly overstated by Pliny(vi. 22. s. 24). It is probable that this lake wasformed by the connecting together of several greattanks, many remains of which still exist ; and thusForbiger suggests that it may be near the months ofthe Mahdvali-Ganga, in which neighbourhood thereare still extraordinary remains of canals, earthworks,&c. (Brooke, I.e.). It was on the shores of thislake that Pliny placed the capital Palaesimundum,with a population of 200,000 souls. The islandwas rich in towns and peoples, which are not clearlydistinguished by ancient writers; of these theAnurogrammi with the town Anurogrammc.it (nowAnurajdpura) is the most important. The great­ness of this place, which was the royal residence)of the kings from B.C. 267 to a d. 769 (Maha-wanso, Jntrod. p. lxi.), is shown by the va»t remainswhich still exist on the srot. (Chapman, AncientAnurajdpura, in Trans. Roy. At. Soc. ii. pi. ii.p. 463). Other less known peoples and places were theSoani, Sandocandae, Rhogandani, Danae (nowTangalle), the Morduli with their seaport Mor-dulamne, the Nagadibi, Spartans (now Trinro.mali)t Maagrammon (probably lamankadaure), andthe Modutti. For these and many more we are in­debted to Ptolemy, who from his own account (i.17. § 4), examined the journals and conversed wilhseveral persons who had visited the island. It is astrong confirmation of what he states, that a con­siderable number of the names preserved can bere-produced in the native Indian form. The people who inhabited the island were for themost part of Indian descent, their language beingvery nearly connected wilh the Pali, one of themost widely spread Indian dialects. To this racebelong all the monuments which remain of its formergreatness, together with a very curious and authenticseries of annals which have been of late brought tolight by the exertions of Sir Alexander Johnstonand the critical acumen of Mr. Tumour (Alaha-wauso) and Upham (Sacr. Hitt. Bookt). Thereare, however, still existing in the island some fewspecimens of a wholly ditl'erent race, locally knownby the name of the Veddaht. These wild and un­civilised people, are found in the Yalleya and woodsto the E. and S. of the Slahdvali-Gamga; and are,in all probability, the remains of the aboriginalrace who dwelt in the land antecedent to the arrivalof Vigaya and his Indian followers. In physiognomyand colour they bear a striking resemblance to theearliest inhabitants of the S. provinces of 1 Undo* tanand are, most likely, of similarly Scythic origin.(Knox, Account of Ceylon, Lond. 1657; Perceval,Account of Ceylon, Lond. 1803; Gardiner, Deter,of Ceylon, Lond. 1807; Davy, Ceylon and itt in­habitants, Lond. 1821; W. Hamilton, India, ii.522; Hitter,iv. 2. p. 226; Lassen,Inditche Alterth.L p. 198; DitterU de Taprobane, Bonn, 1632;Tumour, Mahawanto, Ceylon, 1836; Jour. Atiat.Beng. vi. 856; Chapman, Anc. City of Anurajdpura,in Tr. R. At. Soc. iii. 463; Chitty, Ruint of 7am-mana Awtrtro, in R. At. Soc. vi. 242; Brooke,iiahavella-Ganga, R. Geogr. Soc. iii. 223.) [V.] 4 a 3