OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL rou led the van at the head of nine thousand horse: the bands of the Saracens suc­ceeded each other in formidable review; and the rear was closed by Caled in per­son, with the standard of the black eagle. To the activity of Derar he intrustedthe commission of patroling round the city with two thousand horse, of scouringthe plain, and of intercepting all succour or intelligence. The rest of the Arabianchiefs were fixed in their respective stations before the seven gates of Damascus;and the siege was renewed with fresh vigour and confidence. The art, the labour,the military engines of the Greeks and Romans, are seldom to be found in thesimple, though successful operations of the Saracens: it was sufficient for them toinvest a city with arms, rather than with trenches; to repel the sallied of the be­sieged; to attempt a stratagem or an assault; or to expect the progress of famineand discontent Damascus would have acquiesced in the trial of Aiznadin, as afinal and peremptory sentence between the emperor and the caliph; her couragewas rekindled by the example and the authority of Thomas, a noble Greek, il­lustrious in a private condition by the alliance of Heraclius.(l) The tumult andillumination of the night proclaimed the design of the morning sally; and theChristian hero, who affected to despise the enthusiasm of the Arabs, employedthe general resource of a similar superstition. At the principal gate, in the sightof both armies, a lofty crucifix was erected; the bishop, with his clergy, accom­panied the march, and laid the volume of the New Testament before the imageof Jesus; and the contending parties were scandalized or edified by a prayer, thatthe Son of God would defend his servants and vindicate his truth. The battleraged with incessant fury; and the dexterity of Thomas,(2) an incomparable archer,was fatal to the boldest Saracens, till their death was revenged by a female heroine,the wife of Aban, who had followed him to the holy war, embraced her expiringhusband. " Happy," said she, "happy art thou, my dear: thou art gone to thyLord who first joined us together, and then parted us asunder. I will revenge thydeath, and endeavour to the utmost of my power to come to the place where thouart, because I love thee. Henceforth* shall no man ever touch me more, for I havededicated myself to the service of God." Without a groan, without a tear, shewashed the corpse of her husband, and buried him with the usual rites. Thengrasping the manly weapons, which, in her native land, she was accustomed towield, the intrepid widow of Aban sought the place where his murderer fought inthe thickest of the battle. Her first arrow pierced the hand of his standard-bear­er: her second wounded Thomas in the eye; and the fainting Christians no longerbeheld their ensign or their leader. Yet the generous champion of Damascus re­fused to withdraw to his palace: his wound was dressed on the rampart; the fightwas continued till the evening; and the Syrians rested on their arms. In the si­lence of the night, the signal was given by a stroke on the great bell; the gateswere thrown open, and each gate discharged an impetuous column on the sleepingcamp of the Saracens. Caled was the first in arms; at the head of four hundredhorse he flew to the post of danger, and the tears trickled down his iron cheeks,as he uttered a fervent ejaculation: "O God! who never sleepest, look upon thyservants, and do not deliver them into the hands of their enemies." The valourand victory of Thomas were arrested by the presence of the sword of God; withShe knowledge of the peril, the Moslems recovered their ranks, and charged theassailants in the flank and rear. After the loss of thousands, the Christian generalretreated with a sigh of despair, and the pursuit of the Saracens was checked bythe military engines of the rampart. After a siege of seventy days, (3) the patience, and perhaps the provisions, ofthe Damascenes were exhausted; and the bravest of their chiefs submitted to thehard dictates of necessity. In the occurrences of peace and war, they had beentaught to dread the fierceness of Caled, and to revere the mild virtues of Abu (0 Vanity prompted the Arabs to believe, that Thomas was the son-in-law of the emperor. We know thechildren of "Heraclius by his two wives; and his august daughter would not have married in exile at Damascus.(See Ducange, Fam. Byzantine, p. US, 119.) Had he been less religious, I might only suspect the legitimacyof the damsel. (2) Al Wakidi (Ockley, p. 101.) says M with poisoned arrows;" but this savage invention is w repugnant tothe practice of the Greeks and Romans, that I must suspect, on this occasion, the malevolent credulity of theSaracens. (3) Abulfeda allows only seventy days for the siege of Damascus (Anna). Moslem, p. 67. vers. Reiske;) hotEtmacin. who mentions this opinion, prolongs the term to six months, and notices the use ol'baliitte by the Sara­cens.' (Hist. Saracen, p. 25. 32.) Even this longer period is insufficient to fill the interval between the battleof Aiznadin (July, A.D. 633.) and the accession of Omar. 24th July, A. D. 634.) to whose reign the conquest ofDamascus is unanimously ascribed. (Al Wakidi, apud Ockley, vol. i. p. 115. Abulpharagius, Dynast, p. lit*vers. Poeock.) Perhaps, as in the Trojan war, the operations were interrupted by excursions and deiaehmf m»itill the last seventy days of the siege.