OCR Output that of Athens, by Solon, have been chiefly cele­brated. In the latter, however, we see simplicitygiving way to complication and refinement. At Rome,the reign of Romulus was the reign of despotism.His will was the law. Numa Pompilius introducedthe rites and ceremonies of religion, and by establish­ing forms of worship, strengthened the civil union.Some improvements were added by Tullus Hostilius,and some by Ancus Martius. But the true legislatorwas Servius Tullius: the author of that best policywhich made even kings the subjects of the laws. XXVII. After the expulsion of TaTquin, the peo­ple, to secure their rights from powerful factions inthe senate, and to prevent the effects of civil discord,,were obliged to modify the constitution by new regu­lations. With this view, the decemvirs were created.Those magistrates, by adopting from the wisdom ofother nations what appeared worthy of selection,framed a body of laws entitled the Twelve Tables.,'All sound legislation ended there. It is true that, af­ter that time, new statutes were enacted; but, if weexcept a few, suggested by the vices of the times, andpassed on the spur of the occasion, they were, for themost part, made in the conflict of parties, and for theworst of purposes; in some instances, to lay open toambition the road to honours; in others, to work thedownfall of illustrious citizens: and, in general, withpernicious motives. Hence the Gracchi, and the Sa-turnini, those turbulent demagogues; and hence theviolent spirit of Drusus, that famous partisan of thesenate, who, by largesses and open bribery, supportedthe claims of the nobility, and by specious promisesinduced the allies of Rome to espouse his cause, de­ceiving them at first, and between the senate and thepopular leaders, making them in the end, the bubbleof contending factions. Hence a wild variety of con­tradictory laws. In the social war, which involvedall Italy, and the civil commotions that followed, newordinances were established, but with the same con­tentious spirit, till at length Lucius Sylla, the dicta­tor, by repealing several laws, by amending others,ini* "y or. ir' '114 a ode of his own, gave a chock