OCR Output H THE DECLINE AND FALL long vigils and abstemious diet. When his first transports had subsided, she stillmaintained the same ascendant over his mind, by the more solid merit of temperand understanding. Justinian delighted to ennoble and enrich the object of hisaffection; the treasures of the east were poured at her feet, and the nephew ofJustin was determined, perhaps by religious scruples, to bestow on his concubinethe sacred and legal character of a wife. But the laws of Rome expressly pro­hibited the marriage of a senator with any female who had been dishonoured by aservile origin or theatrical profession: the empress Lupicina, or Euphemia, a bar­barian of rustic manners, but of irreproachable virtue, refused to accept a prosti­tute for her niece: and even Vigilantia, the superstitious mother of Justinian,though she acknowledged the wit and beauty of Theodora, was seriously appre­hensive, lest the levity and arrogance of that artful paramour might corrupt thepiety and happiness of her son. These obstacles were removed by the inflexibleconstancy of Justinian. He patiently expected the death of the empress; he de­spised the tears of his mother, who soon sunk under the weight of her affliction,and a law was promulgated in the name of the emperor Justin, which abolishedthe rigid jurisprudence of antiquity. A glorious repentance (the words of theedict) was left open for the unhappy females who had prostituted their persons onthe theatre, and they were permitted to contract a legal union with the most illus­trious of the Romans. (1) This indulgence was speedily followed by the solemnnuptials of Justinian and Theodora; her dignity was gradually exalted with thatof her lover; and, as soon as Justin had invested his nephew with the purple, thepatriarch of Constantinople placed the diadem on the heads of the emperor andempress of the east. But the usual honours which the severity of Roman mannershad allowed to the wives of princes, could not satisfy either the ambition of The­odora, or the fondness of Justinian. He seated her on the throne as an equal andindependent colleague in the sovereignty of the empire, and an oath of allegiancewas imposed on the governors of the provinces in the joint names of Justinianand Theodora. (2) The eastern world fell prostrate before the genius and fortuneof the daughter of Acacius. The prostitute who, in the presence of innumerablespectators had polluted the theatre of Constantinople, was adored as a queen inthe same city, by grave magistrates, orthodox bishops, victorious generals, andcaptive monarchs. (3) Those who believe that the female mind is totally depraved by the loss of chas­tity, will eagei-ly listen to all the invectives of private envy or popular resentment,which have dissembled the virtues of Theodora, exaggerated her vices, and con­demned with rigour the venal or voluntary sins of the youthful harlot. From amotive of shame or contempt, she often declined the servile homage of the multi­tude, escaped from the odious light of the capital, and passed the greatest part ofthe year in the palaces and gardens which were pleasantly seated on the sea-coastof the Propontis and the Bosphorus. Her private hours were devoted to the pru­dent as well as grateful care of her beauty, the luxury of the bath and table, andthe long slumber of the evening and the morning. Her secret apartments wereoccupied by the favourite women and eunuchs, whose interests and passions sheindulged at the expense of justice; the most illustrious personages of the statewere crowded into a dark and sultry antichamber, and when at last, after a tediousattendance, they were admitted to kiss the feet of Theodora, they experienced,as her humour might suggest, the silent arrogance of an empress, or the capriciouslevity of a comedian. Her rapacious avarice to accumulate an immense treasure,may be excused by the apprehension of her husband's death, which could leaveno alternative between ruin arid the throne; and fear as well as ambition might ex­asperate Theodora against two generals, who, during a malady of the emperor,had rashly declared that they were not disposed to acquiesce in the choice of thecapital. But the reproach of cruelty, so repugnant even to her softer vices, hasleft an indelible stain on the memory of Theodora. Her numerous spies observed,and zealously reported, every action, word, or look, injurious to their royal mistress. (1) See the old law in Justinian's Code, (lib. v. tit. 5. leg. vii. tit. 27.lee. 1.) tinder the years 336 and 454. Tirenew edict (about the year 5S1 or 523. Aleman. p. 38.96.) very awkwardly repeals no more than the clause ofmulieres sccnkcc, libertinse, tabernarias. See the novels 89 and 117, and a Greek rescript from Justinian to thebishops. (Aleman. p. 41.) f2)Iswear by the Father, 8cc, by the Virgin Mary, by the four Gospels, quae in tnanitrus teneo, and by'theholy archangels Michael and Gabriel, puram conscientiam germamimque serviiium me servatarom, sacratini-mis DDNN. Justiniano et Theodoras conjugi ejus (novel, viii. tit. 3.) Would the oath have been binding ia fa­vour of the widow? Communes tituli et trinmphi, Sec. (Aleman. p. 47,48.) (3) M Let greatness own her, and she's mean no more." &c. Without Warburton's critical telescope, I should never have seen, ia the general picture of triumphant vice,any personal allusion to Theodora.