OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2 Roman provinces, the Rhine and the Danube, were frequently frozenover, and capable of supporting the most enormous weights. Thebarbarians, who often chose that severe season for their inroads,transported, without apprehension or danger, their numerousarmies, their cavalry, and their heavy waggons, over a vast andsolid bridge of ice '. Modern ages have not presented an instance ofa like phænomenon. 2. The rein deer, that useful animal, fromwhom the savage of the North derives the best comforts of hisdreary life, is of a constitution that supports, and even requires,the most intense cold. He is found on the rock of Spitzberg, withinten degrees of the pole; he seems to delight in the snows of Laplandand Siberia; but at present he cannot subsist, much less multiply,in any country, to the South of the Baltic +. In the time of Cæsar,the rein deer, as well as the elk, and the wild bull, was a nativeof the Hercynian forest, which then overshadowed a great partof Germany and Poland $. The modern improvements sufficientlyexplain the causes of the dimunition of the cold. These immensewoods have been gradually cleared, which intercepted from theearth the rays of the fun 6. The morasses have been drained, and,in proportion as the foil has been cultivated, the air has becomemore temperate. Canada, at this day, is an exact picture of an­cient Germany. Although situated in the same parallel with thefinest provinces of France and England, that country experiencesthe most rigorous cold. The rein deer are very numerous, theground is covered with deep and lasting snow, and the great riverof St. Lawrence is regularly frozen, in a season, when the watersof the Seine and the Thames are perfectly free from ice 7. It is difficult to ascertain, and easy to exaggerate, the influence of Its effects onthe climate of ancient Germany over the minds and bodies of thenatives. Many writers have supposed, and most have allowed,though, as it should seem, without any adequate proof, that therigorous cold of the North was favourable to long life and genera- F f 2 tive