OCR Output CHAP. LI. 367 with art, or ostentatiously displayed: the gold and silver,the various wardrobes and precious furniture, surpassed(says Abulfeda) the estimate of fancy or numbers; andanother historian defines the untold and almost infinitemass, by the fabulous computation of three thousandsof thousands of thousands of pieces of gold." Someminute though curious facts represent the contrast ofriches and ignorance. From the remote islands of theIndian ocean,-a large provision of camphireb had beenimported, which is employed with a mixture of wax toilluminate the palaces of the east. Strangers to the nameand properties of that odoriferous gum, the Saracens,mistaking it for salt, mingled the camphire in their bread,and were astonished at the bitterness of the taste. Oneof the apartments of the palace was decorated with acarpet of silk, sixty cubits in length, and as many inbreadth: a paradise or garden was depictured on theground; the flowers, fruits, and shrubs, were imitatedby tbe figures of the gold embroidery, and the colours ofthe precious stones; and the ample square was encircledby a variegated and verdant border. The Arabiangeneral persuaded his soldiers to relinquish their claim,in the reasonable hope that the eyes of the caliph wouldbe delighted with the splendid workmanship of natureand industry. Regardless of the merit of art and thepomp of royalty, the rigid Omar divided the prize amonghis brethren of Medina: the picture was destroyed; butsuch was the intrinsic value of the materials, that thesnare of Ali alone was sold for twenty thousand drachms.A mule that carried away the tiara and cuirass, the beltand bracelets of Chosroes, was overtaken by the pur­ • Monte vix potest numerove comprehend! quanta spolia nosl ris ces- serint. Abulfeda, p. 69. Yet I still suspect, that the extravagant numbers ofElmac in may be the error, not of the teit, but of t Uu version. The best translatorsfrom the Greek, for instance, 1 find to be very poor arithmeticians. b The Camphire-tree grows in, China and Japan; but many hundred weight ofthose meaner sorts are exchanged for a single pound of the more precious gum ofBorneo and Sumatra (Haynal, Hist. Philosoph. torn. 1. p. 362—365. Dictionnairetl'Hist. Naturelle par Bomare; Millar's Gardener's Dictionary.) These may bethe islands of the first climate from whence the Arabians imported their camphire.(Geograph. Nub..p. 34, 35. D'Herbelot, p. 232.)