OCR Output 104 [book ra. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. people, and set them apart to be a holy tribe,and purified them by water, taken from per­petual springs, and with such sacrifices aswere usually offered to God on the like occa­sions. He also delivered to them the taber­nacle, and the sacred vessels, and the othercurtains which were made for covering thetabernacle, that they might minister underthe conduct of the priests, who had beenalready consecrated to God. He also determined concerning animals,which of them might be used for food, andwhich they were obliged to abstain from,which matters, when this work shall give meoccasion, shall be farther explained, and thecauses shall be added by which he was in­duced to allot some of them to be our food,and enjoined us to abstain from others. How­ever, he forbade us entirely the use of bloodfor food, and esteemed it to contain the souland spirit. He also forbade us to Cat theflesh of the animal that died of itself, as alsothe caul, and the fat of goats, and sheep, andbulls. He also ordered that those whose bodieswere afflicted with leprosy, and that had agonorrhoea, should not come into the city;*nay, he removed the women, under certainsituations, till the seventh day, after which helooked upon them as pure, and permittedthem to come in again. The law permitsthose also who have taken care of funerals tocome in after the same manner, when thisnumber of days is over; but if any continuedlonger than that number of days in a state ofpollution, the law appointed the offering twolambs for a sacrifice, one of which they are topurge by the fire, and the other the prieststake for themselves. In the same manner dothose sacrifice who have had the gonorrhoea;but for the lepers he suffered them not tocome into the city at all, nor to live with anyothers, as if they were in effect dead persons.But if any one had obtained, by prayer toGod, a recovery from that distemper, and hadgained a healthful complexion again, such aone returned thanks to God with several sortsof sacrifices, concerning which we will speakhereafter. .Hence one cannot but smile at those who — - ■ H—"^——-' ■ * We may. here note that Josephus frequently calls thecamn the city, and the court of the Mosaic tabernacle atemple, and the tabernacle itself a holy house, with allu- say, that Moses was himself afflicted with theleprosy when he fled out of Egypt, and thathe became the conductor of those who onthat account left that country, and led theminto the land of Canaan: for had this beentrue, Moses would not have made these lawsto his own dishonour, which indeed it wasmore likely he would have opposed if othershad endeavoured to introduce them: and thisthe rather, because there are lepers in manynations who are yet in honour, and not onlyfree from reproach and avoidance, but whohave been great captains of armies, and beenentrusted with high offices in the common­wealth, and have had the privilege of enter­ing into holy places and temples: so thatnothing hindered, but if either Moses himself,or the multitude that was with him, had beenliable to such a misfortune, he might havemade laws about them for their credit andadvantage, and have laid no manner of diffi­culty upon them. Accordingly, it is a plaincase that it is out of violent prejudice onlythat they report these things about us. ButMoses was pure from any such distemper,and lived with countrymen who were pure ofit also, and thence made the laws which con­cerned others that had the distemper. Hedid this for the honour of God; but, as tothese matters, let every one consider themafter what manner he pleases. As to the women, when they have borne achild, Moses forbade them to come into thetemple, or to touch the sacrifices, before fortydays were over, supposing it be a boy; butif she hath borne a girl, the law is that shecannot be admitted before twice that numberof days be over; and when, after the afore­mentioned time appointed for them, they per­form their sacrifices, the priests distributethem before God. But if any one suspected that his wife hadbeen guilty of adultery, he was to bring atenth deal of barley flour: they then cast onehandful to God, and gave the rest of it to thepriests for food. One of the priests set thewoman at the gates that are turned towardfethe temple, and took the veil from her head,and wrote the name of God on parchment,and enjoined her to swear that she had not ■..<" 'i v."T—T- ..t -""* ."' .* *" "' ** "* "" "" '" sion to the latter city, temple, and holy house, which heknew so well long afterwards. - --•/.,-i?