OCR Output 558 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. brother not allowing him to suspect any harm from him, he camealong with his armour on, to shew it to his brother; but whenhe was going ''along that dark passage, which was called Strato'sTower, he was slain by the body-guards, and became an eminentinstance how calumny destroys all good-will and natural affection,and how none of our good affections are strong enough to resistenyy perpetually. 5. And truly any one would be surprised at Judas upon thisoccasion. He was of the sect of the Es'sens, and had never failedor deceived men in his predictions before. Now, this man sawAntigonus as he was passing along by the temple, and cried outlp his acquaintance, (they were not a few who attended uponliim as his scholars^,' " P strange'! said he, it is good for me toV die now, since truth is dead before me, and somewhat that I" have foretold hath proved false ; for this Antigonus is this day" alive, who ought to have died this day ; and the place where«' he ought to be slain, according to that fatal decree, was Strato's" Tower, whrch is at the distance of six hundred furlongs from«' this place ;' and yet four hours of this day are over already,<V which point of time renders the prediction impossible to be '' fulfilled." A'nd, when the old man had said this, he was de­jected in hi? mind, and so continued- But, in a little time, newscame,-that Antigonus was slain in a subterraneous place, whichwas itself also called Strato's Tower, by the same name withthai Cesarea which lay by the serf-side, and this ambiguity itwas which caused the prophet's disorder. ' '' ' , 6. Hereupon Aristohulus repented of the great crime he hadbeen guilty of, and this gave occasion to the increase of his dis-femper. He also grew worse .and worse, and his soul was con­stantly disturbed at the thoughts'of what he had done," till hisvery .bowels being torn to pieces'by the intolerable grief he wasunder, he threw up a great quantity of blood. And, as one ofthose servants that attended him carried out that blood, he, , bysome supernatural providence, slipped and fell down in the very.place where Antigonus had been slain ; and so he spilt some ofthe murderer's blood upon the spots-of the blood of him that hadbeen murdered, which' still appeared. Hereupon a lamentablecry arose airiohg the' spectators,- as if the servant had spilled theblood on purpose in that place ; and, as the king heard that cry,he inquired what Was the cause of it ? and while no body durstleli him, he pressed them so-much the more to let him knowwhat was the matter; so, at length, when he had threatenedthem, and forced them to sjjeak out, they told ; whereupon heburst into tears, and groaned, and said, " So I perceive 1 am noi*.' like to escape thf) all-seeing eye-of God, as to the great crimes .'. " ,'*'." " I have