OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 119 But the difficulties of the ground, which had been theirinducement to make choice of it, now entangled themin the snares of their own contrivance ; very few foundmeans to escape; twenty thousand men were slain, andthe victorious Romans hastened in several parties tosecure the booty of cattle, which the enemy had so un­wisely thrown in their way. 32. While such was the situation of affairs in Sam-nium, all the states of Etruria, except the Arretians,had taken arms, and vigorously commenced hostilitiesby laying siege to Sutrium ; which city being in al­liance with the Romans, served as a barrier againstEtruria. Thither the other consul, jEmilius, camewith an army to deliver the allies from the siege. TheRomans, on their arrival, were plentifully supplied bythe Sutrians with provisions carried into their camp,which was pitched before the city. The Etruriansspent the first day in deliberating whether they shouldexpedite or protract the war. On the day following,their leaders, having determined on the speedier planin preference to the safer, as soon as the sun rose, dis­played the signal for battle, and the troops marchedout to the field : which being reported to the consul,he instantly commanded notice to be given that theyshould take refreshment, and then appear under arms.The order was obeyed; and the consul, seeing themarmed and in readiness, ordered the standards to becarried forth beyond the rampart, and drew up his menat a small distance from the enemy. Both partiesstood a long time with fixed attention, each waiting forthe shout and fight to begin on the opposite side ; andthe sun had passed the meridian before a weapon wasthrown by either. At length, rather than leave theplace without something being done, the shout wasgiven by the Etrurians, the trumpets sounded, and thebattalions advanced. Nor were the Romans less alert:both rushed to the fight with violent animosity, theEtrurians superior in numbers, the Romans in valor.The battle continued a long time doubtful, and greatnumbers fell on both sides, particularly the men of