OCR Output VELITBAE. 1209 VELTAE. ra protracted for more than two years, and it is notquite clear whether the city was taken in the end.(Liv. vi. 36, 37, 38, 42.)' In n. c. 358 they againbroke out, and ranged the Roman territories, but webear nothing of their punishment (Liv. vii. 15): andin B. c. 340, on the outbreak of the great Latin War,thrjr are represented as among the first to join inthe defection. It is evident indeed that they wereat thia time still a powerful people: their troopsbore an important part in two successive campaigns,bat shared in the general defeat of the Latins on thehanks of the Aatura, B.C. 338. (Liv. viii. 3, 12, 13;fast. Capit.) After the close of the war they wereselected for the severest punishment, on the especialgr»>und of their having been originally Roman citizens.Their walls were destroyed, and their local senatorstransported beyond the Tiber, under a severe pe­nalty in case of their return. Their place was, how­ever, supplied by a body of fresh colonists, so thatthe city continued to be not less populous than be­fore. (Liv. viii. 14.) From thia time Velitrae sank into the condition ofan ordinary municipal town, and we hear little of itin history. It ia mentioned incidentally on occasionof some prodigies that occurred there (Liv. xxx. 38,tt*H. 1, 9), but with this exception its name is notasain mentioned till the close of the Republic. Webear, however, that it was a flourishing municipaltown, and it derived some celebrity at the commence­ment of the Empire from the circumstance of itshaving been the native place of the Octavian family,from which the emperor Augustus was descended.The Octavii indeed claimed to be descended from theancient Roman f.imily of the same name; but it iscertain that both the grandfather and grcat-grsnd-faxher of Augustus were merely men of equestrianrank, who held municipal magistracies in their nativetown. (Suet. Aug. 1, 2 ; Dion Cass. xlv. 1.) Ac­cording to the Liber Coloniaruin, Velitrae hadI eceared a fresh bixly of colonists in the time of thelirawchi; but it continned to retain its municipalrank until the reign of Claudius, when it received amilitary colony, and from thia time assumed thetitle of a Colonia, which we find it bearing in inscrip­tions) (£.io. Colon, p. 238 ; Zumpt, cfe Col. p. 383;OreII. Inter. 1740, 3652). No mention of the cityoccurs in history under the Roman Empire, but itsname i» found in the geographers, and inscriptionstestify that it continued to exist as a flourishingtown down to near the close of the Empire. (Strab.v. p. 237 ; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9 ; Sil. Ital. viii. 376;Nibby, fh'ntomi, vol. iii. p. 450.) It appears tolisve aabeeqnenlly suffered severely from the ravagesof the barbarians, but continued to subsist through-oat the middle ages: and the modern city of VeUetrietill occupies the site of the sncient one, thoughit txau no remains of antiquity. Its position isirer-ir similar to that of Lanuviuin (Cieita Lavinin),on at projecting rock 0r spur of hill, standing nut fromti»« more elevated group of the Alhan hills, andris>inc like a headland above the plain of the Potnp-l: ne Marshes, which lie stretched out beneath it.*1'1>«? inscriptions which have been discovered thereJi»ve> been published by Cardinali (Inscriiioni A nlicheI V/s'sVnsr. 4to. Roma, 1823). From one of these weataaxn that the ancient city possessed an amphitheatre,»hirb was repaired as late as the reign of Valen-t .rjiana, but no traces of it are now visible. It bad^Jjpo tetnple* of Apollo, Hercules and Mars, as wellma o4 the Sabine divinity Sancus. (Liv. xxxii. I.)plixiy ootices the territory of Velitrae as producing a wine of great excellence, inferior only to the Faler-nian (I'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8). [E. H. B.] VELLAVI or VELAUXI, a people of Gallia.In the passage of Caesar (B. G. vii. 75) someeditions liave Velauni, but it is certain that what­ever is the true form of the name, these Velauni arethe Vellaioi (OiirAAofoi) of Strabo (p. 190). TheGabali and Velauni in Caesar's time were subject tothe Arverni. In Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 20) the nameis Velauni (Ow/Aawoi), but he pnts them next tothe Auscii, which is a great mistake. D'Anvillesays that the diocese of Pui represents their ter­ritory; but that this cannot be said of the smallprovince of Velluy, which was annexed to lAnguedocin the antc-revolutionary division of France. In thoNotit. of the Provinces of Gallia, the capital of thoVellavi is Civitas Vcllavurum [liKVEssio]. [G. L.] VELLAUNI. [Velausi.J VELLAUNODUNUM, in Gallia. In B.C. 52Caesar, leaving two legions and all the baggago atAgedincum (Sent), marches on Genabum (Orleans').On the second day he reaches Vellaunodunum.(B. G. vii. 11.) In two days Caesar made a vallumround Vellaunodunum, and on the third day theplace surrendered, and the people gave up theiranus. There is no evidence about the site of Vel­launodunum, except that it was on the road fromSens to Orleans, and was reached in the secondday's march from Sens, and that Caesar reachedOrleans in two days from Vellaunodunum. Caesarwas marching quick. D'Anville conjectures thatVellaunodunum may be lieaune, in the old provinceof Gatinois; for lieaune is about 40 Roman milesfrom Sens, and the Roman army would march thatdistance in two days. Benune is named Bclna inthe Pagus Vastinensis (Gatinois. Gastinois, Vat-tinnis; Vavinccm), in the arts of a council heldat Svissons in 862, and D'Anville thinks that Belnamay be a corruption of Vellauna, which is the nameof Vellaunodunum, if we cut off the terminationdunum. (D'Anville, Xotiee, (fc.) [G. L.] VELLKIA [Vkleia]. VE'I.LICA (OiwAAwa, Ptol. ii. 6. § 51), a townof the Caiitabri in Hispania Tarraconensis. Ukert(ii. pt. i. p. 144) places it in the neighbourhood ofViUelba, to the,N. of Aquilar tie Campo. [T.H.D.] VELLOCASSES. [Veixxames.] VELOCASSES, as Caesar (B. U. ii. 4) writesthe name. Velloeasses in Pliny (iv. 18), and inPtolemy OmmAkmkIo-ioi (ii. 8. § 8). Caesar placesthem in the country of the Bclgae, and consequentlynorth of the Seine. The number of fighting menthat they could muster in B. c. 57 was estimated at10.000, unless Caesar means that they and theVeromandui together had this number. In the di­vision of Gallia by Augustus, the Vclocasses wereincluded in Lugdunensis. Their chief town wasRotomagus (Rouen) on the north bank of the Setae.West of the Velocasses were the Caleti, whosecountry extended along the coast north of the Seine.That part of the country of the Velocasses whichis between the rivers Amlelle and Oise, became inmodern times Vexin Normand and Vexim Fruncais,the little river Eptt forming the boundary betweentbe two Vexins. [U. L.] VELPI MONTES (to OfoAva Son, Ptol. iv. 4.§ 8), a range of mountains on tlie \V. borders ofCyrenaica, in which were the sources of the riverLathon. £T. H. D ] VELTAE (Ow'Atoi, Ptol. iii. 5. § 22), a peopleof European Sannatia, dwelling on both banks of 4 u 3