OCR Output a*. 1096.] 325 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. uame to him and ordained him their king.*But when he heard that the inhabitants ofJabesh Gilead had buried Saul and his sonshonourably, he sent to them and commendedthem, and took what they had done kindly,and promised to make them amends for theircare of those that were dead; and at thesame time he informed them that the tribe ofJudah had chosen him for their king. But as soon as Abner, the son of Ner, whowas general of Saul's army, and a very activeand good natured man, knew that the kingand Jonathan and his two other sons werefallen in battle, he hastened into the camp;and taking away with him the remaining sonof Saul, whose name was Ishbosheth, hepassed over to the land beyond Jordan; andordained him king over the whole multitude,excepting the tribe of Judah;f and made hi»royal seat in a place called in our own lan­guage Mahanaim,J but in the language of theGrecians, The Camps. From whence Abnermade haste, with a select body of soldiers, tofight with such of the tribe of Judah as weredisposed to it; for he was angry that this tribehad set up David for their king. But Joab,whose father was Suri, and his mother Ze-ruiah, David's sister, who was general ofDavid's army, met him*, according to David'sappointment. He had with him aia brethrenAbishai, and Asahel; and also all David'sarmed men. Now when he met Abner, at acertain fountain, rn the city Gibeon, he pre­pared to fight. And when Abner said to him,that he had a mind to know whether of themhad the more valiant soldiers, it was mutuallyagreed, that twelve soldiers on each sideshould fight together. So those that were chosen out by both generals for the fight,came between the two armies; and throwingtheir lances one against the other, they dreHftheir swords, and catching one another bythe head, they held one another fast, and raneach other's swords into their groins, untilthey all, as it were by mutual agreement,perished together. When these were fallen,the rest of the army came to an obstinate en­gagement, and Abner's men were beaten;and when they were beaten, Joab did notleave off pursuing them, but he pressed uponthem, and excited the soldiers to follow themclosely, and not to grow weary of killing them.His brethren also pursued them with greatalacrity; and especially the younger Asahel,who was the most eminent of them. He wasvery famous for his swiftness of foot; for hecouhi not e ily be too hard for men, but is re­ported to Krave over-ron a horse, when theyhad a raee together. This Asahel ran vio­lently after Abner; and would not turn in theleast out of the straight way, either to oneside, or to the other. Hereupon Abner turnedback, and attempted artfully to avoid hisviolence. Sometimes he bade him leave offthe pursuit, and take the armour of one of hissoldiers; and sometimes, when he could notpersuade him so to do* he exhorted him torestrain himself and not to pursue him anylonger, lest he should force him to kill him,and he should then not be able to look hisbrother in the face. But when Asahel wouldnot admit of any persuasion, but still con­tinued to pursue him; Abner smote him withhis spear|| as he held it in his flight, and by aback stroke gave him a deadly wound, so thathe died immediately. But those that were who espoused David's interests, it whs a very commodiouscity for him to make the place of his residence at thisjuncture, as being not insensible, that'the determination ofthe metropolis in his favour would be of great Weight toinfluence the whole tribe. And accordingly we find, thathe was soon invested" with the sovereignty thereof: Forthe men of Judah, (suith the text) came, and there theyanointed David king over the house of Judah, 2 Sam. ii. 4.The History of the lift of King David, vol. 2. B. * 2 Sam. ii. 4. t 2 Sam. u. 9. + This was a place in the tribe of Gad, which had itsname from the appearance of an host of angels to Jacob,as he came with his family and all his substance to Padan-aram, Gen. xxxii. 1.: and the reasons for Abner's retreat­ing hither, in the beginning of the new king's reign, were,that he might secure the people on that side of Jordan, andespecially the gallant inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead, who were great lovers of Saul, and attached to his family; thathe might prevent (he Philistines from falling upon theking, whom" fie had" under his protection, in the infancy ofhis reign-; and chiefly, that he might be at a great distancefrom David, have the new king more absolutely under hiscommand; and a better opportunity of raising recruitsamong the people, not only brave and courageous, hot verywell affected to the cause which He had espoused. Cal-met's Commentary, and Pool's Annotations* P. || The expression in the Bible is,—That with the hinderpart of the spear, he smote him under the fifth rib; whichVirgil, speaking of * mortal wound, has not unhappilyimitated: —i—-—Haud'multa moratus Excipit in latus, et, qua fata celerrima, .crudum Transadigit costas et crates pectoris ensem. 6 JEn. 12. &