OCR Output DISCOURSE III. the Jews rebelled against theocracy, and would have a manto reign over them, Archons for life succeeded, whoseterm was afterwards abridged to ten years ; then, to a singleyear. All general histories point out the variations, till theycame to the popular form which now prevailed. The enemy, after heavy depredations, at length evacuatedAttica; and the Athenians take the field to retaliate uponthem. Their squadron had been all the time at sea, cruizingupon and infesting the coasts of Peloponnesus. But, in thewinter, we are called to Athens to see the public funeral ofthose, who were killed in the first campaign. Here, the firsttime it occurs, our author describes this solemnity, and Peri­cles makes the Funeral-oration. I shall make no reflections on this celebrated performance.Should the reader not think it deserving of its high reputa­tion, I fear the translator will be sadly to blame. It is hardto give such noble ideas their proper energy, and such re­fined ones their due exactness. The great orators of Athenswere always glad to display their abilities on the same oc­casion. Plato hath entered the lists with a high spirit ofemulation, and with a high degree of success: And a greatmaster* this way hath lately made him English. If Thu-eydides suffers by a comparison, which now the unlearnedbut judicious reader is impowered to make, the latter mustbe intreated to observe, that the eloquence of Plato was be­yond dispute more smooth and fluent, more accomplished inall that is beautiful and sweet than the eloquence of Thucy-dides, but an adjudged inferiority in any other respect mustbe laid at the door of his translator. After such an exhilarating and enlivening piece, for such itmust have been to all who heard it, and must have deter­mined every Athenian to suffer any thing with intrepidityand patience in the cause of his country, a very mournfulscene immediately succeeds, which lays them under such aload of affliction and distress, as no arguments, no philoso- • Mr. West.Vol. I. K