OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 287 having been made prisoners, were still kept so: amongwhom some of them had relations and friends, men ofdistinction, and to others they had messages from theirrelations. After a meeting with their friends, on makinga second request, that liberty might be allowed themto ransom such of them as they chose, they were or­dered to give in a list of their names; and when theyhad given in about two hundred, a decree of the senatewas passed, that' the Roman ambassadors should carrytwo hundred of the prisoners, such as the Carthagi­nians should select, into Africa, to Publius CorneliusScipio, and give him directions, that if peace wereconcluded, he should restore them without ransom tothe Carthaginians.' The heralds being ordered to goto Africa to ratify the treaty, at their desire the senatepassed a decree in these words: that 'they shouldcarry with them flint stones of their own, and vervainof their own: that the Roman commander should givethem the order to strike the treaty, and that theyshould call on him for the herbs.' This was a kind ofherb brought from the capital, and given to the heraldson such occasions. The deputies being dismissed fromRome in this manner, as soon as they came to Scipioin Africa, concluded a peace on the terms before men­tioned. The Carthaginians delivered up the ships ofwar, elephants, deserters, fugitives, and four thousandprisoners, among whom was Quintus Terentius Culleo,a senator. The ships Scipio ordered to be carriedout into the deep, and burned. Some say that theyamounted to five hundred, of all sorts, which wereworked with oars; and that the sudden sight of thesein flames was as great a shock to the Carthaginians, asif Carthage itself had been set on fire. The deserterswere treated with more severity than the fugitives;those who were of the Latine confederacy were be­headed, the Romans were crucified. 44. The last peace with the Carthaginians had beenmade forty years before this, in the consulate of Quin­tus Lutatius and Aulus Manlins. The late war begantwenty-three years after, in the consulate of Publius