OCR Output 774 KOMA. ROMA. whole extent of road was called Sacra Via onlyin sacerdotal language, between which and thecommon usage we have already had occasion to notea diversity when giving an account of the Serviangates. In common parlance only that |x>rtion ofthe mail was called Sacra Via which formed theascent of the Velia, from the forum to its summit(u Hujus Sacrae Viae pars haec sola vulgo nota quaeest a foro eunti primore clivo," Varr, /. c). Henceby the poets it is sometimes called " Sacer Clivus:""hide aacro veneranda petes Taiatia clivo." (Mart,i. 70. 5); and — "quandoque traliet feroces Per sacrum cDrum,imerita decorasFronde, Sicambros." (Hor. Od. iv. 2. 34.) compared with— "IntaCtU* ant Britannus ut dtscentkret Sacra catenatus via." (Id. Epod. v». 7.) (Comp. Ambrosch,.Sf/«/«■« und Andeut. p. 78, seq.)The origin of the vulgar opinion is explained byFestua in the following passage: *' Itaque ne eatenusquidem, ut vulgus opinatur. sacra appellanda est, aregis ail domum regis sacririculi; ted etiam a regisdomo ad sacellum Streniae, et rursus a regia usquein litem * (p. 290, HU11.). Whence it appearsthat only the part which lay between the Regia, orhouse of the pontiffs maximus, and that of the rexsacrificulus, was commonly regarded, and probablyfor that very reason, as "sacra." This passage,however, though it shows plainly enough that theremust have been a space between these two resi­dences, has caused some embarrassment on accountof a passage in Dion Cassius (liv. 27), in which hesays that Augustus presented the house of the rexsacrificulus (too $amA4<*ts twc it petty) to the Vestalsbecause it adjoined their residence (o/xotoixosJf); and as we know from Pliny (JBp. tit 19)that the vestals dwelt close to the temple, it seemsimpossible, if Dion is right, that there should havebeen a street lying between the two places men­tioned. But the matter is plain enough; thoughBecker (da J/urw, pp. 30—35, Ilandb. pp. 226—237) wastes severs! pages in most far-fetchedreasonings in order to arrive at a conclusion whichalready lies before us in a reading of the textof Dion for which there is actually MS. authority.Augustus was chosen pontifex maximal (apxtt-/>*us), not rex sacrificulus, as Dion himself says inthis passage. But the two offices were perfectlydistinct (*' Regent sscrificolnm creant. Id sacer-dotilim pofltifici subjecere," Liv. ii. 2). Augustuswould hardly make a present of a house which didnot belong to him; and therefore in Dion we mustread, with some MSS., too $aat\4ws T*V itpiwv,lor Itpwy; Dion thus, in order perhaps to conveya lively notion of the office to his Greek readers,designating the Roman pontifex maximm as " kingof the priests," instead of using the ordinary Greekterm apxtfptvs. The matter therefore lies thus.Varro says that in ordinary life only the clivus,or ascent from the forum to the Summa Sacra Via,obtained the name of Sacra Via. FcstQl repeatsthe same tiling in a different manner; designatingthe space so called as lying between the Regis, orhouse of the pontifex maximus, and that of therex sacrificulus. Whence it follows that the lattermust have been on the Summa Sacra Via. It canscarcely be doubted that before the time of Augustus the Regia was the residence of tbe protjfex mui-mus. The building appears to have ex&Ud tulalate period of the Empire. It is mentioned V tatyounger Pliny (Ep. iv. 11) and by Plutarch97, Horn. 18) as extant in their time, and aWas»bably by Herodian^i. 14) in his descriptka *f MS)burning of the temple of Peace under CuuianaSjAfter the expulsion of tbe kings, tbe rex «aaVcuius, who succeeded to their sacerdotal preens*lives, was probably presented with one of ibenasjresidences, of which there were several in liviasjkSJbourhood of the Summa Sacra Via; thai btHf thaspot where Aocua Marcius, Tarquinius I*riaaa,^HTarquinius Superbus had dwelt. (Lit. l 41; aeak | i. 23, 24; Pirn, xxxiv. 13.) We taooot *&oSexact direction in which the Sacra Via tmaaajthe valley of the Colosseum and ascended 0>S]slarch of Titus, nor by what name this part a! flflroad was commonly called in the Ungosp <* wSJpeople; but it probably kept along tbe awa SJthe Velia. At its highest point, or Satan* fjHVia, and perhaps on the site afterwards *°sa|Hby the temple of Venus and Rome, there atanfjhave been anciently a market for the sale of fctsland also probably of nick-nacks and toy*. rSacra Via, ubi poma veneunt" (Varr. tLHence Ovid (A. A. a. 265.) :— 44 Rure suburbano poteris tibi dicere amIlia, vel in Sacra sint licet einta Via.* Whilst the nick-nacks are thus mentioned \ pertius (iii. 17. 11.): — 44 Et modo pavonis caudae flabella i Et manibus dura frigas habere p£a,Et cupit iratum talos me poscere ebw/sn:Quaeque intent Sacra *iUa dona Vnk" The direction of the Sacra Via is iadkalHorace's description of his stroll: ■ ibamaiSacra," &c. (S. i. 9.) He is going down illthe forum, having probably come from the'Maecenas, on the Esquiline, when be uby the eternal bore whom be hasdirection of his walk is indicated by bis iexcuse that he is going to visit a sick towjHthe Tiber (v. 17) and by the arriral at tie Iof Vesta (v. 35); the Sacra Via baringquitted and the fomm left on tbe right,extremities of the street, as ccexunoetryindicated in the fullowing passage of Cicersr*tamen miror, cur tu buic pottssiuinmkmgissime a te abfuti. Equidem, &i a\jactor in tin ha, non ilium acctuo, *pm tmi rt San]Sacra Via, cum ego ad / V <-..- . Fmptlhr, sed eum qui in me ip&umincidit" ( p. Plane. 7). The Fornixwill be seen hereafter, stood at the .of the forum; and Cicero baa made theillustration by taking the whole length oi that*Beyond this point, where it trxvened the X.Ithe fomm, we are at a loss to tell what ins 1appellation may hare been; and if isuggest that it may have been called ■ imis merely a conjecture from Horace (EmiaL iwhere " haec Janus eummus *b imo * ibetter with a street—just as we sbooJdLombard street" — than with twt> Jani, imonly interpreted, or than with a building <several floors let out in counting hrmruai ii. 3. 18.) This view is snpported by Ion the first of these passage^, where St » 1 i r ahaawfl