OCR Output 38 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. in height had to be taken one by one; on the roofs or onbeams laid over the street the soldiers penetrated from oneof these fortress-like buildings to that which was adjoiningor opposite, and cut down whatever they encountered there.Thus six days elapsed, terrible for the inhabitants of thecity and full of difficulty and danger also for the assailants;at length they arrived in front of the steep citadel-rock,whither Hasdrubal and the force still surviving had re­treated. To procure a wider approach, Scipio gave ordersto set fire to the captured streets and to level the ruins; onwhich occasion a number of persons unable to fight, whowere concealed in the houses, miserably perished. Then atlast the remnant of the population, crowded together in thecitadel, besought for mercy. Life was barely conceded tothem, and they appeared before the victor, 30,000 men and25,000 women, not the tenth part of the former population.The Roman deserters alone, 900 in number, and the generalHasdrubal with his wife and his two children had thrownthemselves into the temple of the God of Healing; for them—for soldiers who had deserted their posts, and for the murdererof the Roman prisoners—there were no terms. But, when,yielding to famine, the most resolute of them set fire to thetemple, Hasdrubal could not endure to face death; alone heran forth to the victor and falling upon his knees pleaded forhis life. It was granted; but, when his wife who with herchildren was among the rest on the roof of the temple sawhim at the feet of Scipio, her proud heart swelled at thisdisgrace brought on her beloved perishing home, and, withbitter words bidding her husband be careful to save his life,she plunged first her sons and then herself into the names.The struggle was at an end. The joy in the camp and atRome was boundless; the noblest of the Romans alone werein secret ashamed of the most recent achievement of thenation. The prisoners were mostly sold as slaves; severalwere allowed to languish in prison; the most notable,Hasdrubal and Bithyas, were sent to the interior of Italy asRoman state-prisoners and tolerably treated. The moveableproperty, with the exception of gold, silver, and votivegifts, was abandoned to the pillage of the soldiers. As to thetemple treasures, the booty that had been in better timescarried off by the Carthaginians from the Sicilian towns wasrestored; the bull of Phalaris, for example, was returned tothe Agrigentines; the rest fell to the Roman state.