OCR Output CHAP. L. 257 • or partial enjoyments. A shady grove, a green pasture,a stream of fresh water, are sufficient to attract a colonyof sedentary Arabs to the fortunate spots which can af­ford food and refreshment to themselves and their cattle,and which encourage their industry in the cultivationof the palm-tree and the vine. The high lands that'border on the Indian ocean are distinguished by theirsuperior plenty of wood and water; the air is more tem­perate, the fruits are more delicious, the animals andthe human race more numerous: the fertility of the soil,invites and rewards the toil of the husbandman; andthe peculiar gifts of frankincensef and coffee have at­tracted in different ages the merchants of the world.If it be compared with the rest of the peninsula, thissequestered region may truly deserve the appellation ofthe happy: and the splendid colouring of fancy andfiction has been suggested by contrast and counte­nanced by distance. It was for this earthly paradise thatnature had reserved her choicest favours and her mostcurious workmanship: the incompatible blessings ofluxury*and innocence were ascribed to the natives: thesoil was impregnated with goldg and gems, and boththe land and sea were taught to exhale the odours ofDivision of aromatic sweets. This division of the sandy,the stony,' the stony, and the happy, so familiar to theand the Greeks and Latins, is unknown to the ArabiansArabia, themselves: and it is singular enough, that acountry, whose language and inhabitants have ever beenthe same, should scarcely retain a vestige of its ancientgeography. The maritime districts of Bahrein andOman are opposite to the realm of Persia. The king- 'The aromatics, especially the thus, or frankincense, of Arabia, occupy the twelfthbook of Pliny. Our great poet (Paradise Lost, lib. 4.) introduces, in a simile, thespicy odours that are blown by the north-east wind from the Sabaean coast:— . Many a league, Pleas'd with the grateful scent, old Ocean smiles.(Plin. Hist , Natur. it. 42.) f Agathaicides affirms, that lumps of pure gold were found, from the size of anolive to that of a nut; that iron was twice, and silver ten times, the value of gold,(de Mari Rnbro, p. 60.) These real or imaginary treasures are vanished; and nogold mines are at present known in Arabia. (Niobubr, Description, p. 124.) VOL. VJ. S