OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 21 abated or eluded by the slow artifice of judicial proceed­ings; the civil administration, with its honours and emo­luments, was confined to the Italians; and the peoplestill preserved their dress and language, their laws andcustoms, their personal freedom, and two-thirds of theirlanded property. It had been the object of Augustusto conceal the introduction of monarchy; it was the po­licy of Theodoric to disguise the reign of a barbarian.1If his subjects were sometimes awakened from this pleas­ing vision of a Roman government, they derived moresubstantial comfort from the character of a Gothicprince, who had penetration to discern, and firmness topursue, his own and the public interest. Theodoricloved the virtues which he possessed, and the talents ofwhich he was destitute. Liberius was promoted to theoffice of praetorian prefect for his unshaken fidelity tothe unfortunate cause of Odoacer. The ministers ofTheodoric, Cassiodorius,1 and Boethius, have reflectedon his reign the lustre of their genius and learning.More prudent or more fortunate than his colleague, Cas­siodorius preserved his own esteem without forfeiting theroyal favour; and after passing thirty years in the ho­nours of the world, he was blessed with an equal term ofrepose in the devout and studious solitude of Squillace. As the patron of the republic, it was the interest and Prosperityduty of the Gothic king to cultivate the affections of thesenate" and the people. The nobles of Rome were flat­tered by sonorous epithets and formal professions of re- vinces that now form the kingdom of Naples, is laboured by Giannone (tom.l . p. 172.178). with patriotic diligence. k See the Gothic history of Procopins, (lib. 1. c. 1. lib. 2. c. 6.) the Epistles ofCassiodorius,(passim, but especially the fifth and sixth books, which contain Iheformttletor patents of offices,) and the Civil History of Giannone. (tom. 1. lib. 2, 3.) The Gfn-thic counts, which he places in every Italian city, are annihilated, however, by Maffei(Verona Illastrata, p. 1. lib. 8. p. 227.) for those of Syracuse and Naples, (Var. 6. 22,23.) were special and temporary commissions. 1 Two Italians of the name of Cassiodorius, the father (Var. 1. 24. 40.) and the son(9. 24, 25.) were successively employed in the administration of Theodoric. Theson was born in the year 479, his various epistles as quaestor, master of the offices,and praetorian prefect, extend from 509 to 539, and he lived as a monk about thirtyyears. (Tiraboschi Storia della Letteratura Italiana, tom. 3. p. 7—24. Fabricius,Bibliot. Lat. Med. Mvi, tom. 1 p. 357, 358. edit Mansi.)■ See his regard for the senate iu Cochloeus. (Vit. Theod. 8. p. 72—80.)