OCR Output STtJRA. STYMPHALUS. 1U39 fTCRA (Sura), a river of Northern Italy, oneuV confluent* of tbe Padua (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20),kich jitos that river a few mile* below Turinumsta Taorinwutn), within a few miles of then Minor or JJora Jiijiaria. It still retains itsrxnt rurae and is a considerable stream, rising inr rbders of tbe Alps, between the Roche Melon< Matt Item*. [E. H. B.] •il'KA (2Tovp«t), a small place in Psttalene,r the mouths of the Indus, mentioned by Arrianit c 4). [V.]MURIUM INSULA. [Phila].STCHNIUM (SrovfVM: £«A. Sturninus: Sfer-rno), ft town of Calabria, mentioned both bymj knd Ptolemy among the municipal towns ofit region. (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16; PtoL iii. 1. § 77.)nune u not otherwise known, but it is supposedbe it presented by the modern village of Ster­na, about 10 miles S. of Lecce (Lupiae) and art distance NE. of Soleto (Soletum). (Cluver.I p. 1231; Bomanelli, Tol. ii. p. 114.) Therelc csnt with the inscription 2TT, and typesmlrling those of the Taren tines, which are as-kru to Sturnium. [E. H. B.] MYLLANGIUM (Zrvf^dyytoy, Polyb. iv. 77,- ■ <djtor, Steph. B. *. v.: Kth. ^rvWdyios, ■ \i~,uvi), a town of Triphylia in EHs of un-•tn file, which surrendered to Philip in theal W'u. sTY'MBARA (Zrvfitapa, Strab. vii. p. 327;Atya. Polyb. xxTiii. 8. § 8; Stubera, Liv.xxxi.ihk 20, 22), a town on the frontier of regalrrj ,fiis, which is by some assigned to Peuriopus,I by others to Pelagonia, which in the campaign ofl 400 was the third encampment of the consulj»cai»; it moat be looked for in the basin of tbe:na. (Leake, Northern Greece* vol. iii. p.V) [E. B. J.] ►TVHPHAXIS, a district annexed by the Ro­to, iii'ffig with Atintania and Elimiotis, to Mace-is a poo the conquest of this kingdom, A.D. 108.r. ilv. 30.) From the mention of this district« with Atintania and Elimiulis, which weret*es of Epeirus upon the borders of Thessaly, it. appear that Stytnpbalis is only another formis* mure common name Tymphalis or Tym- ; though it is true, as Cramer has observed,I Dtodorns has mentioned Stymphaha (Diod. xx., aod Calli mac bus sneaks of the Stymphalian"iu that territory {Hymn, in J Han. 179).Ittay (iii. 13. § 43) hkowise mentions a townt<sui in Stymphalia, but in this passage other rrsd Tymjjfaalift. (Cramer, Ancient Greece^i. p. 19&) TVMPHA'LUS (Xrvn(pa\o!,2Tvn$riKot, Paus.it; t4 i:u...:.7j\.-f. Schol. ad Pind. 01. vi. 129; *Jum. PUn. iv. 6. s. 10; Stymphala, Lucret.1: Elk. 1rvfi$4\ios, 2rvfxipi)\ios), the name of*n, district, mountain, and river in the NE. offclia. Tbe territory of Stytnphalus is a plain,it ux miles in length, bounded by Achaia on tbeNcvoaia and Phliasia on the E., the territory ofttibeia on the S., and that of Orchomenus andtmu on the W. This plain is shut in on all»by mountains. On the K. rises the gigantic ■ of Cyllene, from which a projecting spur,■d Ml Stymphalus, descends into the plain. -r-iAo* fipot, Ptol. iii. 16. § 14; Hesych. $. v.;I* Styaphalos, Stat. Site. iv. 6. 100.) Thewtaia at the southern end of the plain, oppositekte, was called Apclauruin (t£ 'Atc(\avpovj Polyb. iv. 69) *, and at its foot is the kala-vdthra or subterraneous outlet of the lake of Stytn­phalus (/') %Tvu4>a\h Aiumj. Strab. viii. p. 371;n Srwut^Ain Mfirn, Herod, vi. 76). This lakeis formed partly by the rain-water descendingfrom Cyllene and Apelaurum, and partly by threestreams which flow into it from different partsof the plain. From the west descends a smallbtream, which rises in Mount Gcronteium in theneighbourhood of Kastania: and from the eastcomes another stream, which rises near Dusa. Butthe most important of the three streams is theone which rises on the northern hido of the plain,from a copious kefaloVrysi. In summer it Howsabout two miles through tho plain into the kata-vdthra of Apelaurum; but in winter it becomesalmost immediately a part of the waters of the lake,though its course may be traced through the shal­lower water to the katavothra. This stream wascalled Stymphalus by the ancients; it was regardrdby them as the principal source of the lake, and wasuniversally believed to make its reappearance, after asubterranean course of 200 stadia, as the riverErasinus in Argolis. (Herod, vi. 76; Fhus. ii. 3. §5, ii. 24. § 6, viii. 22. § 3; Strub. viii. p. 371;AitGOS, Vol. I. p. SOI, a.) The Stympbalii wor­shipped the Erasinus and Metope (Mtrwirij, Aelian,V. II. ii. 33), whence it has been concluded thatMetope is only another name of the river Stym­phalus. Metope is also mentioned by Callimuehus{Hymn, in Jov. 26), with the epithet pebbly (*o-KvffTttos), which, as Leake observes, seems not veryappropriate to a stream issuing in a l>ody from theearth, and flowing through a marsh. (Peluponnesiuca,p. 384.) The water, which formed the source ofthe Stymphalus, was conducted to Corinth by theemperor Hadrian, by means of an aqueduct, of whichconsiderable remains may still be traced. The state­ment of Pausanias, that in summer there is no lake, isnot correct, though it is confined at that time to asmall circuit round the katavothra. As there is nooutlet fcr the waters of the lake except tbe katavothra,a stoppage of this subterraneous channel by stones,sand, or any other substance occasions an inundation.In the time of Pau>anias there occurred such aninundation, which was ascribed to the anger ofArtemis. The water was said to have covered tbeplain to the extent of 400 stadia; but this numberis evidently corrupt, and we ought probably to readTttrcrapoKoma instead of T«Tpa*o<rious. (Paus. viii.22. § 8.) Strabo relates that Iphicrates, when be­sieging Stymphalus without success, attempted toobstruct tho katavothra, but was diverted from hispurpose by a sign from heaven (viii. p. 389).Strabo also states that originally there was no sub*terraneous outlet for the waters of the lake, so thatthe city of the Stympbalii, which was in his time 50stadia from the lake, was originally situated uponits margin. But this is clearly an error, even if hisstatement refers to old Stymphalus, for the breadthof the whole lake is less than 20 stadia. The city derived its name from Stymphalus, a sonof Elatus and grandson of Areas . but the ancientcity, in which Temenus, the son of Pelasgus, dwelt,had entirely disappeared in the time of Pausanias, * There was also a small town, Apelaurus, whichis mentioned by Livy as the place where the Achae­an* under Kicostratus gained a victory over theMacedonians under Andro&thenes, b. c. 197. (Liv.xxxui. 14.)