OCR Output 86 JOHN OF G ISC HA LA. [B. IV. men to pursue after John, but they could not overtake him,for he was gotten to Jerusalem before; they also slew sixthousand of the women and children who went out with him,but returned back and brought with them almost three thou­sand. However, Titus was greatly displeased that he hadnot been able to bring this John, who had deluded him, topunishment; yet he had captives enough, as well as the cor­rupted part of the city, to satisfy his anger, when it missedof John. So he entered the city in the midst of acclamationsof joy; and when he had given orders to the soldiers to pulldown a small part of the wall, as of a city taken in war, herepressed those that had disturbed the city rather by threat-enings than by executions; for he thought that many wouldaccuse innocent persons, out of their own private animositiesand quarrels, if he should attempt to distinguish those thatwere worthy of punishment from the rest; and that it wasbetter to let a guilty person alone in his fears, than to destroywith him any one that did not deserve it; for that probablysuch a one might be taught prudence by the fear of thepunishment he had deserved, and have a shame upon him forhis former offences, when he had been forgiven; but that thepunishment of such as have been once put to death couldnever be retrieved. However, ho placed a garrison in thecity for its security, by which means he should restrain thosethat were for innovations, and should leave those that werepeaceably disposed in greater security. And thus was allGalilee taken, but this not till after it had cost the Romansmuch pains before it could be taken by them. CHAPTER III. CONCERNING JOHN OF GISCHALA. CONCERNING THE ZEALOTS,AND THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS ; AS ALSO HOW THE JEWSRAISED SEDITIONS ONE AGAINST ANOTHER [iN JERUSALEM.] § 1. Now, upon John's entr}' into Jerusalem, the wholebody of the people were in an uproar, and ten thousand ofthem crowded about every one of the fugitives that were