OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. Ill marine emigration which it established. It opened up forthe Italian proletariate a permanent outlet, and a relief infact more than provisional; but it certainly abandoned theprinciple of state-law hitherto in force, by which Italy wasregarded exclusively as the governing, and the provincialterritory exclusively as the governed, land. To these measures having immediate reference to the Modifica-great question of the proletariate there was added a series tions of tlleof enactments, which arose out of the general tendency to I* • introduce principles milder and more accordant with thespirit of the age than the antiquated severity of the existingconstitution. To this head belong the modifications in themilitary system. As to the length of the period of servicethere existed under the ancient law no other limit, ex­cept that no citizen was liable to ordinary service in thefield before completing his sixteenth or after completinghis forty-sixth year. When, in consequence of the occu­pation of Spain, the service began to become permanent (ii.'210), it seems to have been first legally enacted, that any onewho had been in the field for six successive years acquiredthereby a right to discharge, although this discharge didnot protect him from being called out again afterwards. Ata later period, perhaps about the beginning of this century,the rule arose, that a service of twenty years in theinfantry or ten years in the cavalry gave exemption fromfurther military service.* Gracchus renewed the rule—which was often, in all probability, violently infringed—that no citizen should be enlisted in the army before thecommencement of his seventeenth year; and also, appa­rently, restricted the number of campaigns requisite forfull exemption from military duty. Besides, the clothingof the soldiers, the value of which had hitherto been de­ducted from their pay, was henceforward furnished gratui­tously by the state. To this head belongs, moreover, the tendency which is on * Thus the statement of Appian (ffisp. 78) that six years' service entitleda man to demand hrs discharge, may perhaps be reconciled with the betterknown statement of Polybius (vi. 19), respecting which Marquardt [Alterth.iii. 2, 286 A. 1580) has formed a correct judgment. The time, at which thetwo alterations were introduced, cannot be deteimined further than that thetii-stwas probably in existence as early as 603 (Nitzsch, Gracchen, p. 231), andthe second certainly as early as the time of Polybius. That Gracchus re­duced the number of the legal years of service, seems to follow from Asconiusm Cornel, p. 68; comp. Plutarch, Ti. Graoch. 16; Dio. Fr. 83, 7, Bekk.