OCR Output 222 ROMAN EMPIRE. the imperial title was the object of his ambition, and aRoman senate had pronounced, that it was the onlyadequate reward of his merit and services.11 The appellation of great has often been be-character stowed and sometimes deserved, but CHARLE-is the only prince in whose favour thenas been indissolubly blended with thename. That name, with the addition of saint,is inserted in the Roman calendar; and the saint, by arare felicity, is crowned with the praises of the histo­rians and philosophers of an enlightened age.0 His realmerit is doubtless enhanced by the barbarism of the na­tion and the times from which he emerged; but the ap­parent magnitude of an object is likewise enlarged by anunequal comparison; and the ruins of Palmyra derive acasual splendour from the nakedness of the surroundingdesert. Without injustice to his fame, I may discern someblemishes in the sanctity and greatness of the restorer ofthe western empire. Of his moral virtues, chastity is notthe most conspicuous ;d but the public happiness couldnot be materially injured'by his nine wives orconcubines,the various indulgence of meaner or more transientamours, the multitude of his bastards whom he bestowedon the church, and the long celibacy and licentious man­ners of his daughters,6 whom the father was suspected b This great event of the translation or restoration of the empire, is related anddiscussed by Natalis Alexander, (secul. 9. dissert. 1. p 390—397.) Pagi, (torn. 3.p. 418.) Muratori, (Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 339—352.) Sigonius, (de RcgnoItalia, lib. 4. Opp. torn. '_'. p. 247—351.) Spanheim (de ficta Translatione Imperil),Giannone, (torn. 1. p. 395—405.) St. Marc, (Abr£ge Chonologique.torn. 1. p. 438—450.) Gaillard. (Hist, de Charlemagne, torn. 2. p. 386—446.) Almost all thesemoderns have some religious or national bias. c By Mably (Observations surl'Histoire de France),Voltaire (Histoire Generale),Robertson, (History of Charles V.) and Montesquieu. (Esprit des Loix,lib. 31.c. 18.) In the year 1785, M. Gaillard published his Histoire de Charlemagne (in fourvols. duodecimo), which I have freely and profitably used. The author is a man ofsense and humanity: and his work is laboured with industry and eloquence. But Ihave likewise examined the original monuments of the reigns of Pepin and Charle­magne, in the fifth volume of the historians of France. '' The vision of Weltin, composed by a monk, eleven years after the death ofCharlemagne, shews him in purgatory, with a vulture who is perpetually gnawingthe guilty member, while the rest of his body, the emblem of his virtues, is soundand perfect. (See Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 317—360.) 'The marriage of Eginhard with Imma, daughter of Charlemagne, is, in myopinion, sufficiently refuted by the probum and fuipicio that sullied these fair dam­