OCR Output SABA. 863 SABADIBAE. !»/ the traveller Xiebuhr. (Description deAraHe* p. 125.) He asserts, and be has notmi contradicted, that Yemen neither produces«*«, our trer could hare produced, gold; but that,i dalrict of Soode. it has iron* mines, — a factjmi'reJ by earlier describers, —which were workedben be vUited the country. He states, moreover, |w. tiie native frankincense is of a very ordinary |-x'.:r. Sahara yielding only the species called Li- iit, *bile the better sorts of that gum are imported 1 .*«jMi/ra, Siain, and Java, The distance fromaxh the iuperior kind* of myrrh, frankincense,ir*, and cajt-ia were fetched, probably gave rise :tr jtran^a tales related about the danger ofhlferriajt them from the trees, with which the Sa­una regaled the Aepyptian and Greek mercliants,i tiiDuph them the Greek geographers also. Oneax *J danger alone is likely to have been truly re-t'ft. ilw t pice-woods were the abode of venomous, one of w hich, apparently a purple cobra, was;.T;*,vr, and, springing on intruders, inflicted anrwa.Sk wound. The ancients, however, said and be­nd that cinnamon was brought to Yemen by large*v wbicli build their nests of its chips, and thatr '^UmMot was combed from the beards of he-goats.I j:* Ns.t*4e:uis were governed by a king. (Dionm. Yui. 29.) One inexorable condition of thehi 'ivT wi», that he should never quit his palace:isd bryood ita precincts, it was allowable to stone11* death. The rule which governed the succes-r. f*i the throne was singular. A certain numberfc-fcie families possessed equal claims to the crown: u# first child (females were eligible) born utterarr—ion wms presumptive heir to the reigningtank. This seclusion of the king, and thea^re mode <af electing him, Mem to indicate aaslutai influence, similar to that which regulatesdMce of tl»e Grand Lain a and the homage paidlan by the Thibctians. precise loundaries of Sabaea it is impoasibleucsnain. The area we have presumed is coin­ed within the A rabian Sea \\\, the Persian Gulf *-- Jmiian Oream S-, and an irregular line skirt-Ue [Assert, and running up in a narrow point tosaK. "jc the principal divisions of the Sabaeans see thecan on Akabia; Adramitae; Minaei.[.« irrru* of the Sabaeans seems to have pro-Int frmn two causes: (1) the more direct inter­ne the Aecypto-Grecks with India, and (2)r •x.;r at the powerful tribe of the Honieritae,i «u jagmstd them. In the account of theirtraffic, e-nd of the characteristics of their•*e l.ave traced the features of the race. Com-nth the Arabs of the Desert, the Sabaeans* a highly civilised nation, under a regulnr go-axat, and, aa a mercantile community, jealous ofR^bta of property. The author of the lVriplusiriu upuoftirailar security among the Adramitae;Ptrrests of the merchant had curbed and softenedsafural ferocity of the Arab. This also, accordingL^vshr (IMacripi. tk fArabie, p. 315), is stillr » ,n IVflirs, iu comparison with the inland'sm— of Hej**, and XtgeeL [W. B. D.] Three cities of this name are distinguishedKiorrrt rrxjfXapbers: the name indeed was a■»« appellation of towns, and signified head of^nmxt, or of its leader divisions. (Cotnp. 1'lin.ttf a. 32.) XaCoi, Strph. B. s. r. ZaGai, Agatharch. ap.c j». 63), wms the chief city of the Sabaeans. Jt is described by Diodoi-us (iii. 46) as situated upona lofty wooded hill, and within two days* journey ofthe frankincense country. The position of Saba is,however, quite uncertain: Manner! (Grogr. drrGriech. u. Rom. vol. vi. pt. i. p. 6G) place* it at thomodern Saade; other geographers identify it withMareb [Mariaba]; and again Sabbat ha, both fromits site in the interior and its commerc ial importance,seems to have a good title to be considered as Saba.(2as*T/ of Agatharchides) or Sheba, the capital of thoSabaeans. 2. (2a'ftj.Ptol. vi. 7. §§ 38,42; Plin.vi. 23. s.34),was also seated in the interior of the Sabaean territory,26 miles NE. of Aden. Niebuhr (Descript. de CAra­ble, vol. ii. p. 60) identifies it with the modern Saaba. 3. (Scffeu, Strab. xvii. p. 771; 2a€oT, Ptol.iv. 7. § 8), on the western shore of the Ked Sea,was the capital city of the Sabaeans, and its har­bour was the Sabaiticum Os (SaSatritcov arSfia,Strab. xvii. p. 770). The position of Sabae, likethat of so many Aethiopian races and cities, is veryuncertain. Some writers place it at the entrance ofthe Arabian gulf (Heeren, I/istor. Rrgearche*, vol.i. p. 333); others carry it up as high as the bav ofAdule, 1»L 15° N. Bruce (Traceh, vol.iii. p. 144)identifies the modern Azab with the Sabae, andplaces it between the tropics *nd the Abyssinianhighlands. Combes and Tamisier ( Voyages, vol. i.p. 89) consider the i*land Massotca to have a betterclaim: while Lord Valentin (Travels, vol. ii. p. 47)finds Subae at Port Momington. But nithmighneither ancient geographers nor modern travellersare agreed concerning tho site of tho AethiopianSabae, they accord in placing it on the sea-coastof the kingdom or island of Meroe, and betweenthe Sinus Avalites and the hay of Adnle, i. e.between the 12th and 15th degrees of N. latitude.On the opposite shore were seated the Sabaeansof Arabia, and as there was much intercoursebetween the populations of the opposite sides ofthe Ked Sea, the Aethiopian Sabaeans may havobeen a colony from Arabia. Both races are de«scribed as lofty in stature and opulent (Psalmlxxii.; I A'/'.'/■*. x. 1; Isaiah, xiv. 14), and thisdescription will apply equally to the Sabaeans whodwelt in the spice country of Arabia, and to thosewho enjoyed almost a monopoly of the Libyan spue-trade, and were not far removed from the gold­mines and the emerald and topaz-quarries of the Ae-gyptian and Aethiopian mountains. The remarkablepersonal beauty of the Sabaeans is confirmed by themonuments of UpperNubia.andwas probably rentedto the Greek geographers by the -slave-dealers, towhom height and noble features would be n recom­mendation. The Sabaeans, at least in earlier pe­riods, may be regarded as one of the principil tribesof the Aethiopian kingdom of Meroe. [Mkkok.]Josephus (Antiq. ii. 5) affirms that the Queen ofShel«i or Saba came from this region, and that it borethe name of Saba before it wan known by that ofMeroe. There seems also some affinity between theword Saba and the name or title of the kings of theAethiopians, Saha-co. [\V. B. I).] SABADI'BAK (ZaBa&uGai wtktoi, Ptol. vii. 2.§ 28), three islands, mentioned by Ptolemy, in theneighbourhood of the Aurea Chersonesus in Indiaextra Gangcm. From the great resemblance of thename, it is not unlikely that he has confounded itwith that of the island of Iabadius (or Sabadius), nowJava, which he mentions in his next section. [Ia­badius.] [V.J