OCR Output 442 T H E H I S T O R Y methods. The Romans augmented the nmn-T _ her of their military tribunes with confular power,Y.R. 351. electing eight, a number greater than had hithertoB. c. $00. ^en known. Thefe were Manins .'Emilius Ma-mercinus a fecond time, Lucius Valerius Potitus athird time, Appius Claudius Craflus, Marcus Quin-tilius Varus, Lucius Julius lulus, Marcus Poftumius,Marcus Furius Camillus, Marcus Poftufflius Albi-nus. The Veientians, on the other hand, difguftedat the annual intrigues of candidates, which werefometimes the cauie of violent difienfions, elected aking. This ftep gave great offence to all the ftatesof Etruria, as, befides their abhorrence of kingly go­vernment, they held the perfon eleftcd in no kfs de-teftarion. He, oat of the infolence of wealth, andarrogance of his temper, had, before this, ren­dered himfelf obnoxious to the nation, by violentlybreaking off the performance of certain annualgames, the omiffion of which was deemed zn impi­ety: for, inftigated by pique, beeaufe another can­didate for the office of prieft had been preferred be­fore him, by the fuffrages of the twelve ftates, inthe middle of the folemnity, he abruptly carried awaythe performers, of whom a great part were his flaves.That nation, therefore, devoted beyond all others toreligious performances, the more fo, bccaufe theyexcelled in the condudt of them, pafied a decree,by which all aid was refufed to the Veientians, folong as they fhould continue under the governmentof a king. At Veii, all mention of this decree wasfupprefled by people's dread of the king, whotreated any perfon, reported to have mentioned lucha matter, as a leader of fedition, not as the author ofan idle rumour. Although the Romans received in­telligence that all was quiet in Etrurb, yet, beingalfc> informed that this bufinefs was agitated in everyone of their meetings, they formed their fortificationsin fuch a manner as gave them fecurity on bothfides. Some they raifed on the fide next the town, againft