OCR Output CHAP. 35. ROMAN HISTORY. 157 "our mouths, unless we give up our Tribunes tied hand•" and foot to Coriolanus,—unless he be allowed to"wreak his vengeance on the commons of Rome*"Death, or slavery, is the only choice this new execu-"tioner has left us." The mob would have fallen upon him as he left thehouse, had not the tribunes very seasonably appointedhim a day to take his trial. Here their rage subsided, because every one saw him­self, the judge, and the disposer of the life or death ofhis adversary. Marcius at first, heard the threats of thetribunes with contempt, affirming, That their office was .instituted for protection, not punishment, and that theywere the tribunes of the commons, not of the fathers.But so outrageous were the people, that the fathers wereglad-to purchase their peace at the expence of one oftheir order. They did all, however, in their power tostem the torrent of public odium, and strained everynerve, each in his private, as well as public capacity, tosave him. The first expedient they put in practice, wasto dispose his clients so judiciously as to deter the peo­ple, one by one, from frequenting their meetings andcabals. Then all the senate went in procession, as if thewhole body had been impeached, and with the mostpressing instances, begged the people, fltat if they wouldnot acquit Marcius, for the sake of his innocence, theywou.ld, at their intercession, spare one citizen, one sena­tor, even should he be found guilty. He did not appear on the day of his trial, which in­flamed them still the more. He was • therefore, con­demned in his absence; in consequence of which, he re­tired amongst the Volsci, even then breathing nothingbut revenge, and carrying with him eve^y hostile inten­tion against his country. The Volsci received him withevery mark of respect, and their civilities daily increas­ed, in proportion as his resentment against his countrywas more strongly marked; for bitter complaints, suc­ceeded by terrible threats, were often observed to dropfrom him. He lived with Attius Tullius, at that time, the most respectable nobleman of all the Volsci, and one who had always been an enemy to the Romans. As the one was actuated by a hatred of an old standing, and the other. .H