OCR Output LIVY. posed. These, having now become the majority, pro­posed the question accordingly, while almost every oneof the states, openly approving the measure, showedplainly on which side they would vote. Whereon theDymaeans, Megalopolitans, with several of the Argives,rose up, and withdrew from the council; which stepexcited neither wonder nor disapprobation: for when,in the memory of their grandfathers, the Megalopoli­tans had been expelled their country by the Lacedae­monians, Antigonus had reinstated them in their nativeresidence; and, at a later period, when Dymas wastaken and sacked by the Roman troops, Philip orderedthat the inhabitants, wherever they were in servitude,should be ransomed, and not only restored them totheir liberty but their country. As to the Argives,besides believing that the royal family of Macedoniaderived its origin from them, the greater part were at­tached to Philip by personal acts of kindness and fa­miliar friendship. For these reasons, when the coun­cil appeared disposed to order an alliance to be con­cluded with Rome, they withdrew ; and their secessionwas readily excused, in consideration of the many andrecent obligations by which they were bound to theking of Macedon. 23. The rest of the Achaean states, on their opinionsbeing demanded, ratified, by an immediate decree, thealliance with Attalus and the Rhodians. That withthe Romans, as it could not be perfected without anorder from the people, they deferred until such time asthey could hear from Rome. For the present, it wa9resolved, that three ambassadors should be sent to Lu­cius Quintius; and that the whole force of the Achae-ans should be brought up to Corinth, which city Quin­tius, after taking Cenchrea, was then besieging. TheAchaeans accordingly pitched their camp opposite tothe gate that leads to Sicyon. The Romans madetheir approaches on the side of the city which facesCenchrea; Attalus having drawn his army across theisthmus, towards Lechssum, the port on the oppositesea. At first they did not push forward their opera­