OCR Output OF. THE. ROMAN EMPIRE. Roman people acknowledged in the features of the younger Gordianthe resemblance of Scipio Africanus, recollected with pleasure thathis mother was the granddaughter of Antoninus Pius, and rested thepublic hope on those latent virtues which had hitherto, as they fondlyimagined, lain concealed in the luxurious indolence of a private life. As soon as the Gordians had appeased the first tumult of a popu- They solicit .' theconfirma- lar election, they removed their court to Carthage. They were re- tion of theirceived with the acclamations of the Africans, who honoured their aut,onty'virtues, and who, since the visit of Hadrian, had never beheld themajesty of a Roman emperor. But these vain acclamations neitherstrengthened nor confirmed the title of the Gordians. They wereinduced by principle, as well as interest, to solicit the approbationof the senate; and a deputation of the noblest provincials was sent,without delay, to Rome, to relate and justify the conduct of theircountrymen, who, having long suffered with patience, were at lengthresolved to act with vigour. The letters of the new princes weremodest and respectful, excusing the necessity which had obliged*them to accept the Imperial title j but submitting their election andtheir fate to the supreme judgment of the senate'9. •' The inclinations of the senate were neither doubtful nor divided. Thesemte ratifies their The birth and noble alliances of the Gordians, had intimately election osthe Gordian 5, connected them with the most illustrious houses of Rome. Theirfortune had created many dependants in that assembly, their merithad acquired many friends. Their mild administration opened theflattering prospect of the restoration, not only of the civil but evenof the republican government* The terror of military vio­lence, which had first obliged the senate to forget the murder ofAlexander, and to ratify the election of a barbarian peasant *°, nowproduced a contrary effect, and provoked them to assert the injuredrights of freedom and humanity. The hatred of Maximin towardsthe senate was declared and implacable; the tamest submission hadnot appeased his fury, the most cautious innocence would not re­ 7 move