OCR Output 68 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 768. were not enough to glut the malice of Tiberius; heattended the ordinary courts of justice; taking hisseat near the corner of the tribunal, that he might notdisplace the prsetor from his curule chair. In his pre­sence, which had the effect of controlling the intriguesof the great, several just decisions were pronounced:but even this was big with mischief; truth was served,and liberty went to ruin. Pius Aurelius, a memberof the senate, complained to that assembly, that, bythe making of a public road, and laying an aqueduct,the foundation of his house was ruined; he thereforeprayed to be indemnified. The prsetors of the treasuryopposed his petition. Tiberius, however, struck withthe justice of the case, paid the value of the house.The littleness of avarice was no part of his character.When fair occasions called for liberality, he wasready to open his purse; and this munificent spirithe retained for a long time, when every other virtuewas extinguished. Propertius Celer, a man of prae­torian family, but distressed in his circumstances, de­sired to abdicate his rank of senator. The state ofindigence in which he lived being found to be theconsequence of hereditary poverty, he received a do­nation of a thousand great sesterces. A number ofapplications of the same nature followed soon after;but Tiberius required that the allegations of each pe­tition should be proved. The austerity of his naturemixed with his best actions a leaven of harshness,that embittered his favours. By the rigour of theprince distress was silenced: ingenuous minds chose tolanguish in obscurity rather than seek, by humiliat­ing confessions, a precarious, and at best a painful,relief. LXXVI. In the course of this year, the Tiber,swelled by continual rains, laid the level parts of thecity under water. When the flood subsided, men andhouses were washed away by the torrent. AsmiusGallus proposed to consult the books of the Sybils;but Tiberius, dark and abstruse in matters of religion,as well as civil business, overruled the motion. Thecare of preventing inundations for the future wascommitted to Ateius Capito and Lucius Arruntius. i