OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIKS OF THE JEWS. 345 CHAP. VII. How Herod sieve Sohemus, and Mariamne, and afterward Alex­andra, and Costobarus, and his mast intimate friends, and atlast the sons of Baba also. § 1. Irl OWEVER, when he came into his kingdom agam, hefound his house all in disorder, and his wife Mariamne and hermother Alexandra very uneasy; for, as they supposed, what waseasy to be supposed, that they were not put into that fortressEAlexandrium] for the security of their persons, but as into agarrison for their imprisonment, and that they had no powerover any thing, either of others, or of their own affairs, theywere very uneasy; and Mariamne supposing that the king'slove to her was but hypocritical, and rather pretended, as ad­vantageous to himself, as real, she looked upon it as fallacious.She also was grieved that he would not allow her any hopes ofsurviving him, if he should come to any harm himself. Shealso recollected what commands he had formerly given to Jo­seph, insomuch that she endeavoured to please her keepers,and especially Sohemus, as well apprised how all was in hispower. And at the first Sohemus was faithful to Herod, andneglected none of the things he had given him in charge; butwhen the women by kind words, and liberal presents, had gain­ed his affections over to them, he was by degrees overcome, andat length discovered to them all the king's injunctions, and this i-on that account principally, that he did not so*'much as hopehe would come back with the same authority he had before, ^othat he thought he should both escape any danger from him} andsupposed that he did hereby mucirgratify the women, who wereMkely not to be overlooked in the settling of the government,nay, that they would be able to make him abundant recom­pense, since they must either reign themselves, or be very nearto him that should reign. He had a furthep'ground of hope al­so, that though Herod should have all the success he could wishfor, and should return again, he could not contradict his wife inwhat she desired, for he knew that the king's fondness for hiswife was inexpressible. These were the motives that drew So­hemus to discover what injunctions had been given him. SoMariamne was greatly displeased to hear that there was no endof the dangers she was under from Herod, and was greatly un­easy at it, and wished that he might obtain no favours [fromCaesar,] and esteemed it almost an insupportable task, to livewith him any longer: and this she afterward openly declared,without concealing her resentment.