OCR Output 426 NOTES. 2 Jg this passage of T., Luke's account of the people praying without, whileZachariab went into the temple to burn incense (L. 1, 9. 10).—Assyr-ios penes. Observe the anastrophe, of which T. is peculiarly fond. 2T. Despectissima, etc. See remarks at close of notes, 2, supra,and Preliminary Remarks, p. 236. 28. Macedones. Alexander and his successors, who reigned inSyria till its conquest by the Romans.—Praepotuere. Observe theforce of the prae : before others, pre-eminently.—Rex Antiochus. An-tiochus Epiphanes, the cruel enemy and persecutor of the Jews, kingof Syria, a. c. 176-164. 31. Nam... . desciverat. This passage involves so serious achronological difficulty, that the commentators resort to emendationsof the text to effect a solution. Arsaces, the founder of the Parthianftiate, revolted from Antiochus II. almost a century before the war oJAntiochus Epiphanes with the Jews. Wr., Or. and Dod. suppose thatT. confounded the two Antiochi, and thus fell into an anachronism.Ernesti regards the passage as an interpolation. Brotier and Rup.suggest emendations. The Bipontines understand by Arsaces, one ofthe successors of Arsaces I., for it became the family name. Cf. note,1, 40: Arsacidarum. This will remove the difficulty, if we may alsotake desciverat in a sense applicable, not to the original revolt, but tothe continued rebellion aud war; for that Antiochus Epiphanes wa*engaged in a war with the Parthians appears from the first and secondBooks of the Maccabees, where, as in the poets, they are called Persians. 32. Macedontbus Iuvalidis. The successors of Antiochus Epi­phanes were comparatively feeble sovereigns.—Nondum. Not yet.The Parthians afterwards got possession of Judaea. Cf. 9. 33. Sibl.... Imposuere. The Maccabees, having thrown offthe yoke of Syria, at length made the high-priesthood hereditary inthe Asmonaean family, and finally assumed the name of kings, andtransmitted it together with the regal power (which they had long ex­ercised) to several generations. Kingly power, however, corruptedthe truly virtuous and heroic character which originally belonged tothe family, and they became for the most part monsters in crime andcruelty, and reigued only amid commotions till the Romans extendedtheir conquests over Judeea. Cf. Joseph. B. J., B. 1. 219 Ch. IX.—1. Romanorum. Placed first in emphatic opposition tothe Macedonians, Parthians, etc., spoken of in the last section.—Do-mu.it. a. v. c. 691 ; b. c. 63. Pompey was invited to Jerusalem bythe rival claimants of the kingdom. 2. Templum, etc. He entered not only the outer temple, but theholy of holies, abstaining however from plunder and content with im­posing an annual tribute. Cf. Joseph. Ant. J. 14, 4; Flor. 3, 5 ; Cic.pro Flac. 28. 3. Nulla effigie. Al. nullas effigies. Ad rem, cf. 5: nulla