OCR Output 46 ROMAN EMPIRE. expressed by silence and submission; that man ignorantof his own nature, should not presume to scrutinize thenature of his God; and that it is sufficient for us to know,that power and benevolence are the perfect attributes ofthe Deity." His per- Toleration was not the virtue of the times,secution an(J indulgence to rebels has seldom been thevirtue of princes. But when the prince descends tothe narrow and peevish character of a disputant, he iseasily provoked to supply the defect of argument bythe plenitude of power, and to chastise without mercythe perverse blindness of those who wilfully shut theireyes against the light of demonstration. The reign ofJustinian was a uniform yet various scene of persecu­tion; and he appears to have surpassed his indolentpredecessors, both in the contrivance of his laws andthe rigour of their execution. The insufficient term ofof here- three months was assigned for the conversiontics. or exile of all heretics ;p and if he still connivedat their precarious stay, they were deprived, under hisiron yoke, not only of the benefits of society, but ofthe common birth-right of men and Christians. Atthe end of four hundred years, the Montanists of Phry-giaq still breathed the wild enthusiasm of perfectionand prophecy, which they had imbibed from their maleand female apostles, the special organs of the Paraclete.On the approach of the Catholic priests and soldiers,they grasped with alacrity the crown of martyrdom;the conventicle and the congregation perished in theflames; but these primitive fanatics were not extin­ "For these wi>e and moderate sentiments, Procopius (de Bell. Goth. lib. 1.e. 3.)is scourged in the preface of Alemannus, who ranks him among the political Chris­tians—sed longe verius hieresium omnium sentinas, prorsusque A theos—abominableAtheists, who preached the imitation of God's mercy to man. (ad Hist. Arcan.c. 13.) P This alternative, a precious circumstance, is preserved by John Malala, (torn.2. p. 63. edit. Venet. 1733.) who deserves more credit as he draws towards hisend. After numbering the heretics, Nestorians, Eutychians, &c. ne expectent,says Justinian, ut digni venia judicentur: jubemus,enimut. . .. convicti et apertihieretici justs et idons animadversion! subjiciantur. Baronius copies and ap­plauds this edict of the Code. (A. D. 527. no. 39—40.) i See the character and principles of the Montanists, in Mosheim, de RebnsChrist, ante Constantinum, p. 410—424.