OCR Output 248 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and communicated to them all that he hadheard of his son's madness: he then com­mitted himself to God, to judge betweenthem, about all their actions, and left the careof his royal palace to his ten concubines, andwent away from Jerusalem; being willinglyaccompanied by the rest of the multitude whowent hastily away with him; and particularlyby those six hundred armed men, who hadbeen with him from his first flight, in the daysof Saul. But he persuaded Abiathar andZadok the high-priests, who had determinedto go away with him; as also all the Levites,who were with the ark, to stay behind; ashoping God would deliver hhn without itsremoval; but he charged them to let himknow privately how all things went on. Andhe had their sons, Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok,and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, for faithfulministers in all things. But Ittai the Gittitewent out with him, whether David would lethim or not; for he would have persuaded himto stay, and on that account he appeared themore friendly to him. But as he was as­cending the Mount of Olives barefoot, andall his company were in tears, it was told himthat Ahithophel was with Absalom. Thishearing augmented his grief, and he besoughtGod earnestly to alienate the mind of Absalomfrom Ahithophel; for he was afraid that heshould persuade him to follow his perniciouscounsel; for he was a prudent man, andvery sharp in seeing what was advantageous.When David had ascended to the top of themountain, he took a view of the city, andprayed to God with abundance of tears, ashaving already lost his kingdom. And hereit was that a faithful friend of his, whose namewas Hushai,* met him. When David sawhim with his clothes rent, and having ashes all over his head, and in lamentation for thegreat change of affairs; he comforted him,and exhorted him to leave off grieving. Nayat length he besought him to go back to Ab­salom, and appear as one of his party, and toendeavour to learn the most secret thoughtsof his mind, and to contradict the counsels ofAhithophel;f for that he could not do him somuch good by being with him, as he might bybeing with Absalom. So he was prevailed onby David, and left him, and came to Jeru­salem; whither Absalom himself came also alittle while afterward.J When David was gone a little farther, theremet him Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth,(whom he had sent to take care of the pos­sessions which had been given him, as theson of Jonathan, the son of Saul;) with acouple of asses, laden with provisions; anddesired him to take as much of them as heand his followers stood in need of. Andwhen the king asked him, where he had leftMephibosheth, he said, he had left him inJerusalem, expecting to be chosen king inthe present confusions, in remembrance ofthe benefits Saul had conferred upon them.At this the king had great indignation, andgave to Ziba all that he had formerly be­stowed on Mephibosheth; for he determinedthat it was much fitter that he should havethem, than the other. At which Ziba greatlyrejoiced. When David was at a place called Ba-hurim, there came out a kinsman of Saul's,whose name was Shimei,|| and threw stonesat him, and gave him reproachful words; andas his friends stood about the king, and pro­tected him, he persevered still more in hisreproaches, and called him, " A bloody man,and the author of all sorts of mischief/' He * This man might be of the ancient race of the Arch-ites, descendants from Canaan, of whom Moses speaks,Gen. x. 17. but since the name of these ancient people isdifferently written, I should rather think, that this addi­tional name was given him from the place of his nativity,viz. Archi, a town situated on the frontiers of Benjaminand Ephraim, to the West of Bethel. Josh. xvi. 2. B. t The Jews are of opinion, that Ahithophel was in­censed against David, and therefore ready to go over tothe adverse party, because he had abused Bathsheba,whom they take to have been his grand-daughter, becauseshe was the daughter of Eliam, 2 Sam. xi. 3. and Ahitho­phel had a son of that name, 2 Sam. xxiii. 34. for thisreason they imagine, that he advised Absalom to lie withhis father's concubines, that he might be repaid in kind: though the Scripture assigns another, viz. that he and hisfather might thereby become irreconcileable enemies.Pool's Annotations. B. J 2 Sam. xv. 37. II Whether this man had been a personal sufferer in thefall of Saul's family, or what else had exasperated himagainst David, it no where appears; but it seems as if hehad conceived some very heinous offence against him,when neither the presence of a king, nor the terror of hiaguards, could restrain him from throwing stones and bitterspeeches at him. And it looks as if the king were falleninto the utmost contempt, when one private man couldthink of venting his malice at him in so gross a mannerwith impunity. Howell's Hist, in the notes. B.