OCR Output Chap; XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 431. I for Ptolemy, who was'Agrippa's and Bernice's steward, and tookfrom him all that he had with him, among which things therewere a great many costly garments, and no small number of sil­ver cups, and six hundred pieces of gold, yet were they notableto conceal what they had stolen, but brought it all to Josephns,to Taricheae. Hereupon he blamed them for the violence theyhad offered to the king and queen, and deposited what theybrought to him with Eneas, the most potent man of Tariche«B,with an intention of sending the things back to the owners at aproper time; which act of Josephus brought him into the greatestdanger; for those that had stolen the things, had an indignationat him, both because they gained no share of it for themselves,and because they perceived before hand what was Josephus's in­tention, and that he would freely deliver up what had cost themso much pains to the king and queen. These ran away by nightto their several villages, and declared to all men that Josephuswas going to betray them: they also raised great disorders in allthe neighbouring cities, insomuch that in the morning an hun­dred thousand armed men came running together', which multi­tude was crowded together in the hippodrome at Taricheae, andmade a very peevish clamour against him; while some criedout, That " they should depose the traitor;" and others, " That" they should burn him." Now John irritated a great many,as did also one Jesus, the son of Sapphias, who was then go­vernor of Tiberias. Then it was that Josephus's friends, andthe guards of his body, were so affrighted at this violent assaultof the multitude, that they all fled away but four; and as hewas asleep, they awaked him, as the people were going to setfire to the house. And although those four that remained withhim persuaded him to run away, he was neither surprised athis being himself deserted, nor at the great multitude that cameagainst him, but leaped out to them with his clothes rent, andashes sprinkled on his head, with his hands behind him, and hissword hanging at his neck. At this sight his friends, especiallythose of Taricheae, commiserated his condition; but those thatcame out of the country, and those in their neighbourhood, towhom his government seemed burdensome, reproached him, andbid him produce the money which belonged to them all imme­diately, and to Confess the agreement he had made to betraythem; for they imagined from the habit in which he appeared,that he would deny nothing of what they suspected concerninghim, and that it was in order to obtain pardon, that he had puthimself entirely into so pitiable a posture. But this humble ap­pearance was only designed as preparatory to a stratagem of his,who thereby contrived to set those that were so angry at him at