OCR Output OF ROME. '359 pctration of a murder, which would violate all the B o o lclaws of nations; or that, in fuch an affair, he fhould . _^__,feel no compunction. It is much more probable, Y.R. 317.that his view was, to involve them in fuch guilt, as BtC. 4JJ'to cut off all hope of reconciliation with the Ro­mans. Statues of the ambafladors flain at Fidenaewere erected near the roftrum, at the public ex*pence. A defperate ftruggle was now/ to be ex-pelted with the Veientians and Fidenatians.; as, be-fides the circumftance of their fituation, contiguous •* to the frontiers, they hadftained the commencementof the war with an action fo abominable. The com.tmons, therefore, and their tribunes, feeing the ne-cefilty of attending to the general welfare, and fuf-fering other matters to pafs ia quiet, there wasno oppofition to the election of confuls, who wereMarcus Geganius Macerinus a third time, and Lu- Y.R. 318.cius Sergius Fidenas, fo called, I fuppofe, from his B'Ci «*•fervices in the fucceeding war. For he was the firftwho engaged in battle with the king of the Veien­tians, on this fide of the Anio, in which he got thebetter; but he gained not an unbloody victory, fothat people's grief for the lofs of their countrymen,exceeded their joy'for the defeat of the enemy; andthe fenate, as in a cafe particularly alarming, or*dered Mamercus ^milius to be named dictator.He chole his mafter of the horfe from among hiscolleagues of the former year, in the office of mili­tary tribunes with confular power, Lucius QuintiusCincinnatus, a young man worthy of the father fromwhom he fprung. To the troops levied by the con­fuls, were added a number of veteran centurions,Ikilled in the bufinefs of war, and the number ofmen loft in the laft battle was replaced. The dicta-tor ordered Quintius Capttolinus and Marcus FabiiisVibulanus to attend him in quality of lieutenant ge*neral. The appointment of a magiftrate with ex­traordinary power, and the character of the perfonappointed being felly foited to thofe powers, bothVOL. i. B B together