OCR Output 194 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. full expectation of intercepting the whole fleet. Eleven ofthe Athenian ships, which were a-head of the rest, being tooquick for the wing of the Peloponnesians and the shifting oftheir course towards the open sea, ran safely off*. Yet in­tercepting all the rest, they run them aground and so disabledthem. The Athenians on board, who could not escape byswimming, were slaughtered to a man: Some of these emptyships they got off again and carried away in tow ; and onethey had already took with the whole crew on board. TheMessenians got down to the succour of some of them. Theywaded with their arms through the water, and climbing onboard and fighting from the decks saved some which werealready in tow.—In this manner did the Peloponnesians de­feat and destroy the Athenian ships. Their twenty ships which were of the right wing, gavechace to the eleven Athenians, which on the shifting of thecourse had ran off amain. But all these, excepting oneship, outsailed them, and got safe into Naupactus. Havinggained their harbour, they tacked about under the templeof Apollo, and stood ready to defend themselves, in case theenemy should make an attempt upon them so near theshore. Soon after, they appeared, sailing along and sing­ing their paean, as having gained a victory. One ship be­longing to Leucas was shot far a-head of the rest, givingchace to that only ship of the Athenians which was left be­hind. It happened that a trading vessel was then lying outat anchor before the harbour. The Athenian ship came up • The Latin translators, whose chief aim is a grammatical construction,have made a slip here in point of chorography ; they say, " Suhtcrfugeruntorfugerunt in apenum mare." But it is surprizing that Mr. Hobbet shouldbe guilty of so much inadvertence, as to make eleven Athenian ships " getout into open sea." The Peloponnesians made their tack toward* the opensea, on purpose to prevent them from getting out of the gulf, which gaveopportunity to the foremost ships in the Athenian line to run away up thegulf towards Naupactus, for the sake of securing which they had thoughtthemselves obliged, though contrary to their judgment and inclination, tocome within the capes. Had they run o»it to sea, they never could havereached Naupactus, but would have run directly from it.