OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 205 account of the injuries his father Demetrius had done them;yet did he bring this about; for as the people of Antioch hatedAlexander on Ammonius' account, as we have showed already,they were easily prevailed with to cast him out of Antioch; whothus expelled out of Antioch, came into Cilicia. Ptolemy camethen to Antioch, and was made king by its inhabitants, and bythe army; so that he was forced to put on two diadems, the oneof Asia, the other of Egypt: but being naturally a good and arighteous man, and not desirous of what belonged to others, andbesides these dispositions, being also a wise man in reasoningabout futurities, he determined to avoid the envy of the Romans,so he called the people of Antioch together to an assembly, andpersuaded them to receive Demetrius; and assured them, that"he would not be mindful of what they did to his father in case"he should now be obliged by them; and he undertook that he"would himself be a good monitor and governor to him; and"promised that he would not permit him to attempt any bad"actions; but that for his own part, he was contented with the"kingdom of Egypt." By which discourse he persuaded thepeople of Antioch to receive Demetrius. 8. But now Alexander made haste with a numerous and greatarmy, and came out of Cilicia into Syria, and burnt the countrybelonging to Antioch, and pillaged it; whereupon Ptolemy, andhis son-in-law Demetrius, brought their army against him, (forhe had already given him his daughter in marriage,) and beatAlexander, and put him to flight: and accordingly he fled intoArabia. Now it happened, in the time of battle, that Ptolemy'shorse, upon hearing the noise of an elephant, cast him ofi* hisback, and threw him on the ground; upon the sight of whichaccident, his enemies fell upon him, and gave him many woundsupon his head, and brought him into danger of death; for whenhis guards caught him up, he was so very ill, that for four days'time he was not able either to understand, or to speak. How­ever, Zabdiel, a prince among the Arabians, cut off Alexander'shead, and sent it to Ptolemy, who recovering of his wounds, andreturning to his understanding on the fifth day, heard at once amost agreeable hearing, and saw a most agreeable sight, whichwere the death and the head of Alexander; yet a little afterthis his joy for the death of Alexander, with which he was sogreatly satisfied, he also departed this life. Now, Alexander,who was called Balas, reigned over Asia five years; as we haveelsewhere related. 9. But when Demetrius, who was styled * Nicator, hadtaken the kingdom, he was so wicked as to treat Ptolemy's sol­ * This name Demetrius Nicator, or Demetrius the amfueror, is so written on