OCR Output AN. 1102.] 209 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. But when he saw that he was not there onthe second day of the month, he inquired ofJonathan, why the son of Jesse did not cometo the supper and the feast, neither the daybefore, nor that day? Jonathan replied, thathe was gone, according to the agreement be­tween them, to his own city, where his tribekept a festival, and that by his permission:that he also invited him to come to theirsacrifice; and, said Jonathan, "If thou wiltgive me leave, I will go thither, for thouknowest the good will that I bear him." Andthen it was that Jonathan understood hisfather's hatred to David; and plainly saw hisentire disposition. For Saul could not restrainhis anger, but reproached Jonathan, andcalled him the son of a runagate, and anenemy, and said he was a partner with David,and his assistant, and that by this behaviourhe shewed he had no regard to himself, or tohis mother; and would not be persuaded,that while David remained alive, their king­dom was not secure to them. Yet did he bidhim send for him, that he might be punished.And when Jonathan said, in answer, "Whathath he done that thou wilt punish him?"Saul no longer contented himself to expresshis anger in bare words, but snatched up hisspear, and leaped upon him, and was desirousto kill him. He did not indeed do what heintended, because he was hindered by hisfriends; but it appeared plainly to his son,that he hated David, and greatly desired todespatch him; insomuch, that he had almostslain his son with his own hands on his ac­count . The king's son rose hastily from supper,and being then unable to admit any thinginto his mouth for grief, he wept all night;both because he had himself been near de­struction, and because the death of Davidwas determined. But as soon as it was day,he went out into the plain that was beforethe city; as going to perform his exercises;but, in reality, to inform his friend what dis­position his father was in towards him, as he had agreed to do. And when Jonathan haddone what had been thus agreed, he dis­missed his servant that followed him, to re­turn to the city, but he himself went into thedesert, and came into his presence, and com­muned with him. So David appeared, andfell at Jonathan's feet, and bowed down tohim, and called him the preserver of his soul.But he lifted him up from the earth, and theymutually embraced one another, and made along greeting, and that not without tears.They also lamented their age, and that fa­miliarity which envy would deprive them of,and that separation which must now be ex­pected, which seemed to them no better thandeath itself. So recollecting themselves atlength from their lamentation, and exhortingeach other to be mindful of the oaths theyhad mutually sworn, they parted.* CHAP. XII. of David's flight; fikst to ahimelech, and after­wards TO THE KINGS OF THE PHILISTINES, AND OF THEMOABITES; AND OF THE DESTRUCTION OF AHIMELECHAND HIS FAMILY. DAVID now fled from the king, and thatdeath he was in danger of by him; andcame to the city Nob, tof Ahimelech thepriest, who, when he saw him coming alone,and neither a friend nor a servant with him,he wondered at it; and desired to learn thecause why there was nobody with him? Towhich David answered, that the king hadcommanded him to do a certain thing thatwas to be kept secret, to which, if he had amind to know so much, he had no occasionfor any one to accompany him. "However,"said he, " I have ordered my servants to meetme at such and such a place." So he desiredhim to let him have somewhat to eat; andthat in case he would supply him, he wouldact the part of a friend, and be assisting tothe business he was now about. And whenhe had obtained what he desired, he alsoasked him, whether he had any weapons with * l Sam. xx. 42. t Whether this Ahimelech of the family of Ithamar, orAbiathar, of the same family were the Jewish high-priest,when David came to Nob, see my dissertation at the end ofmy Essay on the Revelation of St. John at large; pag.884—289. Josephus believed, that Ahimelech was thenthe high-priest, which seems contrary to our Saviour's affirmation, Mar. ii. 25, 26. I mean this, unless therewere, in effect, two high-priests at the same time; theone of the family of Eleazar; and the other of that ofIthamar; the one Ahimelech, the other Abiathar: andthat our Saviour esteemed Abiathar to be so most pro­perly; which is not impossible to be supposed.