OCR Output SABIHT. SABINI. 869 frrrolej. (Ovid. Fast. vi. 215; Si). Ital. viii. 490;jrtMt L 15; Angustin, Cir. Dei, xviii. 19; Am--jrh. Stmdirn. p. 170, Ac.) Among the otherMia whose worship is expressly said to have beenrmtucnl it Home by the Sabines, we find Sol,r-jnia. Minerva and Mars, or Mamers, as he wanM by the Sabines and their descendants. (Varr.. L v. 74.) Minerra was, however, certainly annoi diviniry also; and in like manner Vejovia,. . Ifcaaa, and several other deities, which are said;» of .Sabine extraction, were clearly common to • Ijttioi abo, and probably formed part of thertUl^Tof all the Italian nations. (Varro, Lc;irestni, C l». iv. 33; Schwegler, Hum. Gescb. i.150 j Ambroaeh. I e. pp. 141—176.) On thert hanil Quirinos was certainly a Sabine deity,[withstanding his subsequent identification with> dnatd Romulus. His temple, as well as that of•eat. stood on tlie Qoirinal hill, to which indeedp*>b*bl* )r»ve name. (Varr. L.L. v. 51; Am-ark, pp. 149. 169.) I'.a.wetcd with the religions rites of the Sabinesr be mentioned their superstitious attachment torrV. incantations, which they i ontinued to practisem to a late period, at well as their descendantsHani and other Sabellian tribes, (llor. Epod.Ii. Sat u 9. 29.) They were noted also forr •kill, or pretended skill, in divination by dreams.«. f .US.) The rites of aueury. and especiallycifires. or omens from the flight of birds, weieosasaierad to be essentially of Sabine origin,arb certainly common in more or less degree to•tber nations of Central Italy. Attus Xavius,"lebrmted angur in the reign of Tarqiiln thet wtso was regarded by many as the founder ofof augury (Cic. de Dir. ii. 38),and the institution of the "auspicia«-a" waa also referred to Numa. (Cic. deii 14.) a* Sabine language, as already observed, is13 to as only from a few words preserved by•a; writers. Varro, Festus, Ac. Some of these,'x.iilra," ~ albus," "imperator," Ac, are well>i is as as Latin words, though sai<l to haveaaHy |aa»irl into tliat language from the Sabines.■a, each as "hirpus" or "irpus" for a wolf,as" ar "qtiiria* (a spear), "nar" (sulphur),(a bill), Ac. were altogether strange toLatia, inousli still in use among the Sabines.rr emeral peculiarity of the Sabine dialect,vt-fc-h in itself proves it to have been a cognate■fa with the Latin, is that it inserted thexu ar r at the commencement of many wordsst at Mw rouzh aspirate; thus they said"falna." "fostis," "fostia," Ac, for thei " btrma,* ** bed as," '* boslis." "hostia," Ac.sa, U L- t. 97 . Feat. pp. 84, 102; Kleme, Phi-pp. 70—76; Mummaen, U. I. Dia-~~.) Tlie two last authors havethe little that we really know/uace. It is not quite clear from111, ,„|, of Varro how far the Sabine Ian-i reaid ba considered as still existing in his•sit it at ansa probable that it could no longermm+mi a» » language, though the m ssianaaiiaas and forms referred to were stillas prurractal ama. (Klente, Le.) • Mbinea. vra are told, dwelt principally inas aaai rren their towns in the earliest timestrwaJled- (Strab t. p. 228; Dionys. ii. 49.)„ mgt at* the points in which they were thought tn resemble the Xacedsemonians (Pint. Rom. 16);though it probably arose merely from their sim­plicity of manners, and their retaining unchangedthe habits of primitive mountaineers. In accord­ance with this statement we find very few townsmentioned in their territory; and even of theseRkate appears to have been the only one that wasever a place of much importance. Iktkrocrka,about 14 miles higher up the valley of the Velinus(the name of which is still preserved in Antrodoco),seems never to have been a municipal town; and itis probable that the whole upper valley of theVelinus was, municipally speaking, included in theterritory of Reate, as we know was the case withthe lower valley also, down to the falls of the river,which formed the limit of the territory of the Sa­bines on this side; lnteramna,as well as Nsrnia andOcriculum, being included in Umbria. Falacri-m m, the birthplace of Vespasian, situated near thesources of the Velinus, was certainly a mere village;as was also Foruu (Citita Tummiisa). situated inthe cross valley which led from Interocrea to Ami-ternum and formed the line of communicationbetween the valley of the Velinus and that of theAternus. Amitkrxum itself, though situated inthe valley of the Aternus, so that it would seem tohave more naturally belonged to the Vestini, wascertainly a Sabine city (Flin. iii. 12. s. 17; Strab.v. p. 228), and was probably, next to Keate, tliemost considerable that they possessed. KuRStA, inthe upper valley of the Nar, was the chief town ofthe surrounding district, but was never a place ofmuch importance. The lower country of the Sabines,between Keate and Home, seems to have containedseveral small towns, which were of municipal rank,though said by Strabo to be little more than villages.Among these were Forum Now m, the site ofwhich may be fixed at Veecovio, on the banks ofthe Imele, and Foul M Decii, the situation of whichis wholly unknown. Both these were, as the namesshow, Roman towns, and not ancient Sabine cities;the former appears to have replaced the SabineCaspeiua, which was probably situated at Atpra,in the same neighbourhood. On the other handCurbs, the supposed metropolis of the Sabines thathad settled at Home, still retained its municipal!rank, though not a place of much importance. Thesame was the case with Erktum, which was, atalready observed, the last of the strictly Sabine townsin proceeding towards Rome; though l'liny includesMomentum and Fidenae also among the Sabines^Besides these there were two towns of the name ofTrcbnla, both of which must probably be placed inthe southern part of the land of the Sabines. Ofthese Trebixa HuTrsrA (the Mutuscae of Virgil,Am. vii. 711) is represented by Monte Intone,about 15 miles S. of Rieti, and on the right of theSalarian Way; while Thebl°i.a Si fkekas mayperhaps be placed at 5. Antimo near Stroncone, inthe hills W. of Rieti. Lastly, Vakia, in the valleyof the Anio. 4 miles above Tibur, still calledVkovaro, would appear to bave been certainly aSabine town; the whole valley of the Digentia(Lictnza). with its villages of Mandela, Digentia,and Fanum Vacunae (the well-known neighbour­hood of Horace's Sabine farm), being included amongits dependencies. [Digkntia.] The territory of tlie Sabines was traversedthroughout its whole extent by the Salarian Way,which was from an early period one of the greathighroads of Italy. This proceeded from Route 3 K 3