OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 763 . wiii rs often used without any precise aigni- tm. Tail time preliminary remarks we shall proceedutjm ibe qaestion as to which summit was oc-fti b» the Capitoline temple. And as severalnwj bare been adduced by Becker (Htmdb. J93) in faronr of the SW. summit, whichteas to bt «f soch force and cogency as " com-ri u ivxbt" the qnestiou, it will be necessaryu-r.rtf them trriatim, before we proceed to statec^«pmwo. Tbey are chiefly drawn from nar-w <i attempts to surprise or storm the Capitol. > tnt -a the list is the well-known story ofirn, at related by Dionyshis of Halicarnas-(L II): "Herdonius," Bays Becker, '• lands :tt it the spot where the Capitol lies, andt tbt bill u aot the distance of a stadium fromBirr, iod therefore manifestly opposite to itsm pint He f>TCfu a passage through then'i! pur. whkh lay on this side, ascends the i»i Kizts the fortress (Qpoitpiov). Hence hen f'Tvirds still farther to the neighbouring4. rf whieb he also gains possession. Thisen Uav suffices to decide the question, sinceJfttoi a expressly mentioned as being next to**r, i i the Carmental gate near it: and since*fcJ.of Herdonius, after taking possession of the~ bcight, proceed* to the adjoining citadel" ■*» interpretation of the narrntiTe some things-"M which are necessary to the proper under-4 it, and others are inserted which are byat* to b« (bund there. Dionysins does not sayhsj tutu landed at the spot trAcre Me Capitolai wWe the hill is only a stade from thethat he landed at that part of Rome'> Ctpito&K kill is, at the distance of not» <tvie from the riTer. Secondly, Becker"that fpoupiow is the Capitol, or, as he railsk*ztng the whole question, "the westernL" Bat bis greatest misrepresentation arises■ittzsf to state that Dionysios, as his text * earriftst the Carmental gate as left open ina--* (/ some divine or oracular command (koto1fBw): whereas Beckers words ("er dringt4> Cinnentalische Thor"') would lead thetJ fefine that the passage was forced byam. Now it has been shown that the Purta■*da was one of the city gates; and it is im-»ta tefieve that the Romans were so besetted,ir ti aoch a state of idiotcy, that, after build-bp- stnee wall round their city at great ex-tad troeble, they should leave one of theirY*~ tad that too without a guard upon it;wawiaj all their elattorate defences useless We hare said without a avard, be-t i. from the narrative that the first ► eocosstered by Herdonius was the tppovptov,Kccrhsg to Becker was the Capitol; so that * km passed through the Vicus Jugarius,■ forma, ar.d ascended the Clivus CapitolinusI rtrropti-m. It is evident, however, that*■ mold not hare intended the Carmental*t be makes it an entrance not to the city1 tat Capitol .'.a. wvAeu too Kaw.TcnA.oy); * * rfrmrded it as seated upon an eminence,"- the expression that Herdonius made his"rW tkrosgh it (a,ra€t4dcas rV Mvapu*).l* -f afccTnua is manifestly corrupt or inter*'. *nch farther appears from the fact that^ ra describing the real CarmenUl gate (i. 32), he used the adjective form Kaput yr is (irapitrati Kap'LtvTuTi a-vAcus), whilst in the present in­stance he is made to use the form KappAmivos. Her­donius must have landed btlowthe line of wall runningfrom the Capitoline to the river, where, as the wallwas not continued along its bunks, he would havemet with no obstruction. And this was evidentlythe reason why he brought down his men in boats;for if the Carmental gate had been always left openit would have been better for him to have marchedoverland, and thus to have avoided the protractedand hazardous operation of landing his men. It isclear, as Preller has pointed out (Schneidewin's Phi-lofogu* L p. 85, note), that Dionysius, or rather per­haps his transcribers or editors, has here confoundedthe Porta CarmenUlis with the Porta Pandana,which, as we have before seen, was seated on theCapitoline hill, and always left open, for therecould hardly have been two gates of this descrip­tion. The Porta Pandana, as we have already said,was still in existence in the time of Varoi (A. L. v.§ 42, Mull.), and was in fact the entrance to theancient fort or castellum — the <ppovptov of Diony-sius — which guarded the approach to the Capitolinehill, of course on its £. side, or towards the forum,where alone it was accessible. Thus Solinus; 44 lidera(Herculiscomites) et montemCapitolinum Saturniumnominurunt, Castelli quoque, quod excitaverunt, por-tam Saturniam appellaverunt, quae postmoduni Pan­dana vocitata est" (i. 13). We also learn fromFestus, who mentions the same castrum, or fort,that it was situated in the lower part of theClivus Capitolinus. "Saturmi quoque dicebantur,qui cast mm in imo clivo Capitolino incolebant"(p. 322, Mtill.). This, then, was the ippovpiov firstcaptured by Herdonius, and not, as Becker supposes,the Capitol: and hence, as that writer says, he pressedon to the western height, which, however, was notthe Capitol bnt the Arx. When Dionysius says ofthe latter that it adjoined, or was connected with, theCapitolium, this was intended for his Greek readers,who would otherwise have supposed, from the fashionof their own cities, that the Arx or Acropolis formedquite a separate hill. The story of Herdonius, then, instead of being"alone decisive," and which Becker ( Warnung, pp.43,44) called upon Braun and Prelk>r to explain, be­fore they ventured to say a word more on the subject,proves absolutely nothing at all; and we pass on tothe next, that of Pontius Cominius and the Gauls."The messenger climbs the rock at the spot nearestthe river, by the Porta Carmentalia, where theGauls, who had observed his footsteps, afterwardsmake the same attempt. It is from this spot thatMaiilius casts them down " (p. 389). This is a fairrepresentation of the matter; but tl-e question re­mains, when the messenger had clomb the rock washe in the Capitol or in the Arx? The passagesquoted as decisive in favour of the former are thefollowing: "lnde (Cominius) qua proximum fuita ripa, per praeruptum eoque neglectum hostiuracustodiae saxum in Capitolium evadit." (Liv. r. 46.)u Galli, scu vestigio notato humano, seu sua spouteani mad verso ad Garment is saxorum adscensu aequo— in summum evascre" (76.47). Now, it is plain,that in the former of these passages Livy meansthe Capitoline hill, and not the Capitol strictly socalled; since, in regard to a small space, like theCapitol Proper, it would be a useless and absurddistinction, if it lay, and was known to lie, next the. river, to say that Cominius mounted it *' where it