OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387 - vast enterprise, perhaps of easy execution, must have seemed extravagant to vul­gar minds; and the visionary conqueror was soon reminded of his dependance andservitude. The friends of Farik had effectually stated his services and wrongs: atthe court of Damascus, the proceedings of Musa were blamed, his intentions weresuspected, and his delay in complying with the first invitation was chastised by aharsher and more peremptory summons. An intrepid messenger of the caliphentered his camp at Lugo in Gallicia, and in the presence of the Saracens andChristians arrested the bridle of his horse. His own loyalty, or that of his troops,inculcated the duty of obedience; and his disgrace was alleviated by the recall ofhis rival, and the permission of investing with his two governments his two sons,Abdallah and Abdelaziz. His long triumph, from Ceuta to Damascus, displayedthe spoils of Africa and the treasures of Spain: four hundred Gothic nobles, withgold coronets and girdles, were distinguished in his train; and the number of maleand female captives, selected for their birth or beauty, was computed at eighteen,or even at thirty, thousand persons. As soon as he reached Tiberias in Palestine,he was apprized of the sickness and danger of the caliph, by a private messagefrom Soliman, his brother and presumptive heir; who wished to reserve for hisown reign the spectacle of victory. Had Walid recovered, the delay of Musawould have been criminal: he pursued his march, and found an enemy on thethrone. In his trial before a partial judge, against a popular antagonist, he wasconvicted of vanity and falsehood; and a fine of two hundred thousand pieces ofgold either exhausted his poverty or proved his rapaciousness. The unworthytreatment of Tarik was revenged by a similar indignity, and the veteran com­mander, after a public whipping, stood a whole day in the sun before the palacegate, till he obtained a decent exile, under the pious name of a pilgrimage to Mec­ca. The resentment of the caliph might have been satiated with the ruin ofMusa, but his fears demanded the extirpation of a potent and injured family. Asentence of death was intimated with secrecy and speed to the trusty servants ofthe throne both in Africa and Spain: and the forms, if not the substance, of jus­tice was superseded in this bloody execution. In the mosch or palace of Cordova,Abdelaziz was slain by the swords of the conspirators; they accused their go­vernor of claiming the honours of royalty: and his scandalous marriage with Egi-lona, the widow of Roderic, offended the prejudices both of the Christians andMoslems. By a refinement of cruelty, the head of the son was presented to thefather, with an insulting question, whether he acknowledged the features of therebel ? " I know his features," he exclaimed with indignation: " I assert his inno­cence; and I imprecate the same, a juster, fate against the authors of his death."The age and despair of Musa raised him above the power of kings; and he ex­pired at Mecca of the anguish of a broken heart. His rival was more favourablytreated: his services were forgiven; and Tarik was permitted to mingle with thecrowd of slaves. (1) I am ignorant whether count Julian was rewarded with thedeath which he deserved indeed, though not from the hands of the Saracens; butthe tale of their ingratitude to the sons of Witiza is disproved by the most unques­tionable evidence. The two royal youths were reinstated in the private patri­mony of their father; but on the decease of Elba the elder, his daughter was un­justly despoiled of her portion by the violence of her uncle Sigebut. The Gothicmaid pleaded her cause before the caliph Hasheim, and obtained the restitutionof her inheritance; but she was given in marriage to a noble Arabian; and theirtwo sons, Isaac and Ibrahim, were received in Spain with the consideration thatwas due to their origin and riches. A province was assimilated to the victorious state by the introduction of stran­gers and the imitative spirit of the natives; and Spain, which had been succes­sively tinctured with Punic, and Roman, and Gothic, blood, imbibed, in a few ge­nerations, the name and manners of the Arabs. The first conquerors, and thetwenty successive lieutenants of the caliphs, were attended by a numerous trainof civil and military followers, who preferred a distant fortune to a narrow home:the private and public interest was promoted by the establishment of faithful colo­nies; and the cities of Spain were proud to commemorate the tribe or country of and to return home by the north: and all three are perhaps surpassed by the real and successful enterprise ofHannibal. (1) I much rejrretour lost, or my iarnorance, of two Arabic works of the seventh century, a life of Musa, anda poem on the exploits of Tarik. Of these authentic pieces, the former was composed by a grandson of Musa,who had escaped from the massacre of his kindred; the latter by the vizier of the first Abdalrahman, caliph ofSpain, who might have conversed with tome of the veterans of the conqueror. (Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana,. tom.it. p. M. 139.)