OCR Output 438 flaviusjosephus [b. n. but he intrusted the principal management of divine worshipto those that exceeded others in an ability to persuade men,and in prudence of conduct. These men had the main careof the law, and of the other parts of the people's conductcommitted to them; for they were the priests who wereordained to be inspectors of all, and the judges in doubtfulcases, and the punishers of those that were condemned tosuffer punishment. 23. What form of government then can be more holy thanthis ? What more worthy kind of worship can be paid toGod than we pay, where the entire body of the people areprepared for religion; where an extraordinary degree of careis required in the priests, and where the whole polity is soordered as if it were a certain religious solemnity? For,what things foreigners, when they solemnize such festivals,are not able to observe for a few days' time, and call themmysterious and sacred ceremonies, we observe with greatpleasure and an unshaken resolution during our whole lives.What are the things then that we are commanded or for­bidden? They are simple, and easily known. The firstcommand is concerning God, and afiirms that God containsall things, and is a being every way perfect and happy, self-sufficient, and supplying all other beings ; the beginning, themiddle, and the end of all things. He is manifest in hisworks and benefits, and more conspicuous than any otherbeing whatsoever; but as to his form and magnitude he ismost obscure. All materials, let them be ever so costly, areunworthy to compose an image for him; and all arts areunartful to express the notion we ought to have of him. Wecan neither see nor think of any thing like him, nor is itagreeable to piety to form a resemblance of him. We seehis works, the light, the heaven, the earth, the sun, and themoon, the waters, the generations of animals, the productionsof fruits. These things hath God made, not with hands, notwith labor, not as wanting the assistance of any to co-operatewith him ; but as his will resolved they should be made, andbe good also, they were made, and became good immediately.All men ought to follow this being, and to worship him in the