OCR Output CHAP. XMV.J OF THE SOMAN IMtIRE, steps, the rapid progress of the evil. The ancient war*ship of the Romans afforded a peculiar goddess to hearand reconcile the complaints of a married life; but herepithet of Firiplaca} the appeaser of husbands, too clear­ly indicates on which side submission and repentancewere always expeoted. Every act of a citizen was sub­ject to the judgment of the censors; the first who usedIhe privilege of divorce assigned, at their command, themotives of his conduct ;m and a senator was expelled fordismissing his virgin spouse without the knowledge oradvice of his friends. Whenever an action was institutedfor the recovery of a marriage portion, the praetor, as theguardian of equity, examined the cause and the charac­ters, and gently inclined the scale in favour of the guilt-Jess and injured party. Augustus, who united the pow­ers of both magistrates, adopted their different modes ofrepressing or chastising the license of divorce.* Thepresence of seven Roman witnesses was required for the•validity of this solemn and deliberate act: if any ade­quate provocation had been given by the husband, in­stead of the delay of two years, he was compelled to re­fund immediately, or in the space of six months; but ifhe could arraign the manners of his wife, her guilt orlevity was expiated by the loss of the sixth or eighth partof her marriage portion. The Christian princes were■the first who specified the just causes of a private di­vorce; their institutions, from Constantine to Justinian,appear to fluctuate between the custom of the empireand the wishes of the church,° and the author of the No-.yels too frequently reforms the jurisprudence of the Codeand Pandects. In the most rigorous laws, a wife was 1 Sacellum Viriplac:e(Valerias Maxitnns, lib. 2. c. 1.) in the Palatine region ap­pears in the time of Theodosias, in the description of Kome by Publius Victor. m Valerian Maximas, lib. 2. c. 9. With some propriety be judges divorce morecriminal than oelihacy: illo namque conjngalia sacra spreta tantom, hoc etiam injn-riose traotata. "See the laws of Augustus and his suooessors, in Heineccius, ad Legem PapiamPoppwam, c. 19. in Opp. tom. 6. P. 1. p. 323—333. ° Aliae sunt leges Cwsarum, aliae Christi ; alind Papinianus, aliud Paulus nos-,tor praeoir.it. (Jeroni. tom. 1. f. 198. Seldon, Uxor Ebraica, lib. 3, c. 31. p. 847—853.) x -"