OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1&3 for a civilwar. They executed the order with equal boldness and success; and withtheir bloody daggers in their hands, ran through the streets, pro­claiming to the people and the soldiers, the news of the happy re­volution. The enthusiasm of liberty was seconded by the promiseof a large donative, in lands and money; the statues of Maximinwere thrown doWnj the capital of the empire acknowledged, withtransport, the authority of the two Gordians and the senate1'; andthe example of Rome was followed by the rest of Italy. A new spirit had arisen in that assembly, whose long patience had and prepare*been insulted by wanton despotism and military licence. Thesenate assumed the reins of government, and, with a calm intre­pidity, prepared to vindicate by arms the cause of freedom. Amongthe consular senators recommended by their merit and services to thefavour of the emperor Alexander, it was easy to select twenty,not unequal to the command of an army, and the conduct of awar. To these was the defence of Italy intrusted. Each was ap­pointed to act in his respective department, authorized to enrol anddiscipline the Italian youth; and instructed to fortify the ports andhighways, against the impending invasion of Maximin. A numberof deputies, chosen from the most illustrious of the scnatorian andequestrian orders, were dispatched at the same time to the governorsof the several provinces, earnestly conjuring them to fly to theassistance of their country, and to remind the nations of theirancient ties of friendship with the Roman senate and people. Thegeneral respect with which these deputies were received, and thezeal of Italy and the provinces in favour of the senate, sufficientlyprove that the subjects of Maximin were reduced to that uncommondistress, in which the body of the people has more to fear fromoppression than from resistance. The consciousness of that melan­choly truth, inspires a degree of persevering fury, seldom to befound in thpse civil wars artificially supported for the benefit of a fewfactious and designing leaders *4. .... But