OCR Output SARDINIA. 913 SASDfXLt K U, k a fcrmn. vol. n. p. 453.) ItrfMfxavv&kteiei, opedalljr of tanny; andfcnca. viatS-Lo which produced the purpletr.i its most peculiar naturalwtbi wild ibeep. or moufflon, calledm\\*m {Oris Amtaon Linn ), which_ fast bank a the more unfrequenteda> Mmi (Stak r. p. 225; Pans. x.Mm, B. A. xri. 34), and a herb,Stria, the bitterness of which was■ a bod of cooTulsire grin on the4 im that tatted it, *r«iM u the origin of theMil (ma Smrioox-us • lap&wvf 1J; Soil #. r. Zopowyios;Sofia. 4. §4.) But no of this phrase are e * peroliar herb alluded to by them now idrutified. The bitternessl aoawy (Hur. A. P. 375), which wrj■ waft from the same herb, is, however,lataroWe at the present day- (Smyth's104.) I'aosaJiias mentions that thefen wolves, as well a- from vipers and«tf sfrprota, an advantage that it stillXl7.§ 12: S-lin.4. § 3; De la Mar-173, 177); bot it contained ar. apparently a kind of tarantula,which was peculiar to the bland. inch was\ hrase, a Serv. adthe ety-. reeding ly pspnJatkm of Sardinia seem to havew^erfl reputation among the Romans,J cxpwaus of Cicero ( pro Scaur. 9. §§i) mart, indeed, be received with con-i.as it waa his object in those pas-iwaat* the value of their testimony; butJ expreasion of " Sardi venales" was gene-1 aa applying to the wnr; hlessness ofi well as to the cheapness andi from that country. ('* Habes Sar-t^fam aho nequiorem," Cic. ad Fam. vii.Mors, even in th>- days of Augustus, seemi eaotinaally making inr<iads into theAaries for the purp-*e of carrying off1 v. p. 255); but as these mountaineers IStrata and Dtodonia, lived in caves—i the ground, and were unacquainted■Mm (Strab. /. c.; Wind. iv. 30), it is nofr'aat they did not make nvtul slaves.»u>uqa:ii« found in Sardinia, by far the"sole are the singular structures calledXnraglie or Nnnurcis, which areMiliar to the island. They are a ':ind of towers, in the form of a truncated conestrongly built of massive stones, arranged in layei-s,but not of such massive blocks, or fitted with suchskill and care, as those of the Cyclopean structuresof Greece or Italy. The interior is occupied withone or more vaulted chambers, the upper cone (wherethere are two, one over the other, as is frequentlythe case) being approached by a winding stair orramp, constructed in the thickness of the walls. Insome cases there is a more extensive basement, orsolid substruction, containing several lateral cham­bers, all constructed in the same manner, with| rudely pointed vaukings, showing no knowledge ofthe principle of the arch. The number of thesesingular structures scattered over the island is pro­digious; above 1200 have been noticed and recorded,and in many cases as many as twenty or thirty arofound in the same neigbourhood: they are naturallyf»und in very different degrees of preservation, andmany varieties of arrangement and construction areobserved among them; but their purpose and des­tination are still unknown. Nor can we determineto what people they are to be ascribed. They arecertainly more ancient than either the Roman orCarthaginian dominion in the island, and are evi­dently the structures alluded to by the author of thetreatise <& Afirabiltbus, which he describes as ddAoi,or vaulted chambers, the construction of which lieascribes to lulaus. (Pseud. Arist. de Mirab. 104.)Diodorus also speaks of great works constructed byDaedalus for Iolaus, which must evidently refer tothe same class of monuments. (Diod. iv. 30.) Kothtraditions are valuable at least as evidence of theirreputed high antiquity; but whether they are to beascribed to the Phoenicians or to the native in­habitants of the island, is a point on which it is verydifficult to form an opinion. They are fully described by De la Marmora in his Voyage en Sar-daiffne, vol. ii. (from which work the annexed figureis taken), and more briefly by Capt, Smyth {Sar­dinia, pp. 4 — 7) and Vale'ry ( Voy. en Sardatyne). The work of De la Marmora, above cited, containsa most complete and accurate account of all theantiquities of Sardinia, as well as the natural his­tory, physical geography, and present state of theisland. Its authority has been generally followedthroughout the preceding article, in the determina­tion of ancient names and localities. The works ofCaptain Smyth {Present State of Sardinia, 8vo. Lon­don, 1828), Vale'ry ( Voyagecn Corse et en Sardau/ne,2 vols. 8vo. Tans, 1838), and Tyndale {Island ofI Sardinia, 3 vols. 8vo. London, 1849), though of mutu1 interest, are of inferior value. [ K. II. Ii.J MVUAUUK ,I» MUDISIA.