OCR Output CHAP. 49. ROMAN HISTORY. 381 of bankruptcy, now fled to the protection of that college : .aml it would tend much to their ownjionour, as well asto the dignity of their office, if it should appear, thai tliepower with which they were invested, was not so muchcalculated for harassing the sentate, and sowing discordamong the different orders of the state, as to oppose themalevolent designs of their colleagues. There was nowa noise all over the senate-house, oecasioned by the'members, who, from every corner, appealed to the col­lege of tribunes. When silence was ordered, they who had been pre­viously prepared by the application of the principal sena­tors, declared, that they would oppose the bill preferredby their colleagues, since it was the judgment of the se­nate, that it tended to the subversion of jthe state. Thesenate renrned thanks to the dissenting tribunes j andthose who had preferred the bill summoned an assembly,where, having inveighed against their colleagues, astraitors to the interest of their constituents, creatures ofthe consulars, and other opprobrious appellatives, theydronped from their motion. CHAP. XLIX. ;•• * *' ~ r* •' The jEqui humbled. Pride of Posthumius checked byL, Sextius. 1 HE next year, P. Cornelius Cossus, C. ValeriusPotitus, Q. Quint-tins Cincinnatus, and Numerius FabiusVibulanus were created military tribunes with consularpower. Whilst they were in office, the Republic wouldhave had war, with two of its restless neighbours, if thatwith the Vejentes had not been put off by a religiousscruple among their chiefs, whose estates an inundationof the Tiber had lately damaged, by demolishing their'seats and villas; and the jEqui been diverted from assist­ing the inhabitants of Volse, a people belonging to theirown nation, by the blow they had received three yearsbefore. Incursions had been made from thence upon theterritory of Lavicum, bordering with theirs, and hostili­ties committed upon the Roman colony lately planted"there. They thought, by the assistance of all the /Equi,