OCR Output in. 65.] 497 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. And when, after that victory, many went overto Hyrcanus, ass deserters, Aristobulus was leftdesolate, and fled to Jerusalem. Hereuponthe king of Arabia took all his army, andmade an assault on the temple, and besiegedAristobulus therein: the people still support­ing Hyrcanus, and assisting him in the siege;while none but the priests continued withAristobulus. So Aretas united the forces ofthe Arabians, and of the Jews together, andpressed on the siege vigorously. As this hap­pened at the season when the feast of unlea­vened bread was celebrated, which we callthe passover, the principal men among theJews left the country, and fled into Egypt.Now there was one, whose name was Onias;a righteous man, and beloved of God; who,in a certain drought, had prayed to God toput an end to the intense heat; and whoseprayers God had heard, and had sent themrain.* This man had concealed himself, be­cause he saw that this sedition would last agreat while. However they brought him tothe Jewish camp, and desired that as by hisprayers he had once put an end to the drought,so he would in like manner make impreca­tions on Aristobulus, and those of his faction.And when, upon his refusal, and the excusesthat he made, he was still by the multitudecompelled to speak: he stood up in the midstof them, and said, "O God, the king of thewhole world! since those that now stand withme are thy people; and those that are be­sieged are also thy priests; I beseech theethat thou wilt neither hearken to the prayersof those against these; nor bring to effectwhat these pray against those." But as soonas he had made this prayer, the wicked Jewswho stood about him stoned him to death. But God punished them immediately forthis barbarity, and took vengeance upon themfor the murder of Onias, in the following man­ner. While the priests and Aristobulus werebesieged, it happened that the feast called thepassover was come. At which it is our cus­tom to offer a great number of sacrifices toGod. But those who were with Aristobuluswanted sacrifices, and desired that their coun­trymen without would furnish them with such sacrifices; and assured them that they shouldhave as much money for them as they shoulddesire; and when they required them to paya thousand drachmae for each head of cattle,Aristobulus and the priests willingly under­took to pay for them accordingly. And thosewithin lowered down the money over thewalls, and gave it them. But when the othershad received it, they did not deliver the sac­rifices; but arrived at that height of wicked­ness, as to break the assurances they hadgiven; and to be guilty of impiety towardsGod, by not furnishing those that wantedthem with sacrifices. And when the priestsfound they had been cheated, and that theagreements they had made were violated,they prayed to God, that he would avengethem on their countrymen. Nor did he de­lay that punishment: but sent a strong andvehement storm of wind that destroyed thefruits of the whole country, till a modius ofwheat was sold for eleven drachmae. In the mean time Pompey sent Scaurus intoSyria; while he was himself in Armenia, andmaking war with Tigranes. But when Scau­rus was come to Damascus, and found thatLollius and Metellus had newly taken thecity, he came himself hastily into Judea. Andwhen he was come thither, ambassadors cameto him, both from Aristobulus and Hyrcanus;and both desired he would assist them. Andwhen both of them promised to give him mo­ney—Aristobulus "Hour hundred talents, andHyrcanus no less;—he accepted of Aristobu-lus's promise: for he was rich, and had a greatsoul; and desired to obtain nothing but whatwas moderate. Whereas the other was poorand tenacious, and made incredible promisesin hopes of greater advantages. For it wasnot the same thing to take a city that wasexceeding strong and powerful, as it was toeject out of the country some fugitives, witha greater number of Nabateans who were novery warlike people. He therefore made anagreement with Aristobulus, for the reasonsbeforementioned; and took his money, andraised the siege; and ordered Aretas to de­part, or else he should be declared an enemyto the Romans. So Scaurus returned to Da­ * This miraculous grant of rain in the time of dearth,related here by Josephus, on the prayers of this holyirian, Onias, is confirmed in two places by the Jewishyabbins, after their awkward manner: as Reland informs us in his note on this place. One of which testimoniesis here set down by him at large. To which I refer the,inquisitive reader. 1 Or, three hundred. See Chap. 3.