OCR Output 334 ROMAN EMPIRE. the wise Solomon, we shall applaud the modesty of theArabian, who espoused no more than seventeen or fifteenwives; eleven are enumerated, who occupied at Medinatheir separate apartments round the house of the apostle,and enjoyed in their turns the favour of his conjugalsociety. What is singular enough, they were all widows,excepting only Ayesha, the daughter of Abubeker. Shewas doubtless a virgin, since Mahomet consummated hisnuptials (such is the premature ripeness of the climate)when she was only nine years of age. The youth, thebeauty, the spirit, of Ayesha, gave her a superior as足cendant: she was beloved and trusted by the prophet;and, after his death, the daughter of Abubeker was longrevered as the mother of the faithful. Her behaviourhad been ambiguous and indiscreet: in a nocturnalmarch, she was accidentally left behind; and in themorning Ayesha returned to the camp with a man. Thetemper of Mahomet was inclined to jealousy; but adivine revelation assured him of her innocence: he chas足tised her accusers, and published a law of domestic peace,that no woman should be condemned unless four malewitnesses had seen her in the act of adultery." In hisadventures with Zeineb, the wife of Zeid, and with Mary,an Egyptian captive, the amorous prophet forgot theinterest of his reputation. At the house of Zeid, hisfreedman and adopted son, he beheld, in a loose undress,the beauty of Zeineb, and burst forth into an ejaculationof devotion and desire. The servile, or grateful, freed足man, understood the hint, and yielded without hesitationto the love of his benefactor. But as the filial relationhad excited some doubt and scandal, the angel Gabrieldescended from heaven to ratify the deed, to annul theadoption, and gently to reprove the apostle for distrust足ing the indulgence of his God. One of his wives,Hafno, the daughter of Omar, surprised him on her own a In a memorable case, the caliph Omar decided that all presumptive evidencewas of no avail; and that all the four witnesses must have actually seen styfamin pyiide. (Abulfede Annales Moslemici, p. 71. vers. Reiske.)