OCR Output 264 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP.XXXVII. Unnaturalvice. agree, they corroborate each other; but as often asthey differ, a prudent legislator appreciates the guiltand punishment according to the measure of socialinjury. On this principle, the most daring attack onthe life and property of a private citizen is judgedless atrocious than the crime of treason or rebellion,which invades the majesty of the republic: the ob­sequious civilians unanimously pronounced, that therepublic is contained in the person of its chief: andthe edge of the Julian law was sharpened by the in­cessant diligence of the emperors. The licentiouscommerce of the sexes may be tolerated as an impulseof nature, or forbidden as a source of disorder andcorruption: but the fame, the fortunes, the family ofthe husband, are seriously injured by the adultery ofthe wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curbingthe freedom of revenge, applied to this domesticoffence the animadversion of the laws: and theguilty parties, after the payment of heavy forfeituresand fines, were condemned to long or perpetual exilein two separate islands*. Religion pronounces anequal censure against the infidelity of the husband:but as it is not accompanied by the same civil effects,the wife was never permitted to vindicate herwrongst;and the distinction of simple or double adultery, sofamiliar and so important in the canon law, is un­known to the jurisprudence of the Code and Pan­dects. I touch with reluctance, and despatch withimpatience, a more odious vice, of which modestyrejects the name, and nature abominates the idea.The primitive Romans were infected by the example • Till the publication of the Julius Paulus of Schulting (I. ii. tit. xxvi.p. 317—323), it was affirmed and believed, that the Julian laws punished adul­tery with death; and the mistake arose from the fraud or error of Tribonian.Yet Lipsius had suspected the truth from the narratives of Tacitus (A mini. ii. 50.iii. 24. iv. 42), and even from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished thetreasonable frailties of his female kindred. •f-In cases of adultery, Severus confined to the husband the right of public ac-lcusation (Cod. Justinian. 1. ix. tit . ix. leg. 1).