OCR Output 212 LIVY. to his own and his father's friends, about five hundredNumidians assembled about him. He then sent backthe Moors according to his engagement; and althoughthe numbers that joined him were short of his expecta­tions, and not such as might encourage him to under­take an affair of moment; yet, believing that by enter­ing on action, and making some effort, he should gatherstrength for a more important enterprise, he threwhimself in the way of the young king Lacumaces, as hewas going to Syphax at Thapsus. The attendants ofLacumaces flying back in consternation, Masinissa tookthe city at the first assault, received the submission ofsome of the king's party who surrendered, and slewothers who attempted to resist; but the greatest partof them, with the boy himself, escaped during thetumult to Thapsus, whither they had at first intendedto go. The success of Masinissa in this small exploit,and on the first commencement of his operations, drewthe regards of the Numidians towards him, while theold soldiers of Gala flocked from all parts of the coun­try and the towns, inviting the young prince to proceedto the recovery of his father's kingdom. Mezetuluswas superior in number of men; for, besides the armywith which he had conquered Capusa, he was strength­ened by some troops who had submitted, after the kingwas slain ; the boy Lacumaces having likewise broughtsuccors from Syphax. Mezetulus had fifteen thousandfoot, ten thousand horse, with whom Masinissa engagedin battle, though much inferior in number. The valor,however, of the veteran soldiers prevailed, aided by theskill of their leader, who had gained experience in thewar between the Romans and Carthaginians. Theyoung king, with his guardian and a small body ofMassylians, escaped into the territories of the Cartha­ginians. Masinissa thus recovered his father's throne;yet, foreseeing that he should have a much moresevere struggle to maintain against Syphax, he thoughtit best to come to a reconciliation with his cousin-ger-man. Proper persons were accordingly sent to giveLacumaces hopes that if he put himself under the pro-