OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 319 hands through treachery, and, by way of prelude as it wereto the approaching reign of terror, was abandoned formassacre and pillage to the savage band of the general.The capital was placed, even by the mere obstruction oftraffic, in great danger ; by command of the senate the wallsand gates were put in a state of defence and the burgess-levy was ordered to the Janiculum. Strabo's inaction ex­cited among nobles and commons alike surprise and indig­nation. The suspicion that he was negotiating secretly.with Cinna was natural, but was probably without founda­tion. A serious conflict in which he engaged the band ofSertorius, and the support which he gave to the consulOctavius when Marius had by an understanding with oneof the officers of the garrison penetrated into the Janiculum,and by which in fact the insurgents were successfullybeaten off again with much loss, showed that he was far fromintending to unite with, or rather to place himself under,the insurgent leaders. It seems rather to have been hisdesign to sell his assistance in subduing the insurrection tothe alarmed government and citizens of the capital at theprice of the consulship for the next year, and thereby toget the reins of government into his own hands. The senate Negotia-was not, however, inclined to throw itself into the arms oftim* ofone usurper in order to escape from another, and sought help K^rr1"'elsewhere. The franchise was by decree of the senate sup-plementarily conferred on all the Italian communities in­volved in the Social war, which had laid down their arms andhad in consequence thereof forfeited their old alliance.* Itseemed as it were their intention officially to demonstratethat Rome in the war against the Italians had staked herexistence for the sake not of a great object but of her ownvanity: in the first momentary embarrassment, for thepurpose of bringing into the field an additional thousand ortwo of soldiers, she sacrificed everything which had beengained at so terribly dear a cost in the Social war. In fact,troops arrived from the communities who reaped the benefitof this concession; but instead of the many legions promisedtheir contingent on the whole amounted to not more than, * P. 256. That there was no confirmation by the comitia, is clear from Cic.Phil. lii. 11, 27. The senate seems to have made use of the form ofsimply prolonging the term of the Plautio-Papirian law (P. 248)—a coursewhich by use and wont (i. 326) was open to it and practically amounted toconferring the franchise on all Italians.