OCR Output DISCOURSE III. xcix mere accident accomplishes what his eloquence could not.The command of Alcibiades came here to an end. One ofthe State-vessels arrives, and summons him to Athens totake his trial for the late frolics and irregularities committedthere. That city, ever since the departure of the fleet, hadbeen filled with confusion and horror. A plot there was,or rather a plot it was determined there must be, to set up atyrant, that most odious sound to Attic ears. Recollectionof the dismal things they had heard about the tyranny ofthe Pisistratidae increased their fears, and drove them intofurious and desperate proceedings. Thucydides here digres-seth to settle some facts relating to that set of tyrants, andtheir demolition; particularly the affair of Harmodius andAristogiton, one of the most famous incidents in the annalsof Athens. He differs indeed from most other writers, andthe moderns have not thought proper to rest the point uponhis authority, great as it is ; or though no man ever tracedout facts, or made his enquiries with more sedateness andimpartiality. But to return to Alcibiades : He was obliged to quit thecommand, and he seemed quietly to submit to the orders ofthe State. But, determined not to face his countrymen intheir present mood, nor to hazard a trial, he gave them whowere sent for him the slip, and sheltered himself in Pelopon足nesus. He became instantly a most violent and dangerousenemy to his country. He is gone to pave the way for theruin of Athens ; of Athens, which he loved better than anything, except the parade of his own personal importance, andthe gratification of his private caprice. Nicias and Lamachus, who now remained in the com足mand of the fleet, by help of a stratagem, land at Syracusewithout opposition, and seize a strong post for their encamp足ment. The Syracusans determine on a battle to dislodgethem. Both sides form in order. Nicias encourages hismen by a short, but spirited and forcible, harangue. Thu足cydides paints the battle with the exactness, perspicuity,