OCR Output 68 THE COUNTRY OF (JENNES A RETH. [B. III. can grow upon it, and the inhabitants, accordingly, plant allsorts of trees there; for the temper of the air is so wellmixed, that it agrees very well with those several sorts; par­ticularly walnuts, which require the coldest air, flourish therein vast plenty; there are palm-trees also, which grow best inhot air ; fig-trees also and olives grow near them, which yetrequire an air that is more temperate. One may call thisplace the ambition of nature, where it forces those plantsthat are naturally enemies to one another to agree together:it is a happy contention of the seasons, as if every one ofthem laid claim to this country; for it not only nourishesdifferent sorts of autumnal fruits beyond men's expectation,but preserves them also a great while; it supplies men withthe principal fruits, with grapes} and figs, continually, duringten months of the year, and the rest of the fruits as theybecome ripe together through the whole year: for, besidesthe good temperature of the air, it is also watered from amost fertile fountain. The people of the country called itCapharnaum: some have thought it to bo a vein of the Nile,because it produces the Coracin fish, as well as that lake doeswhich is near to Alexandria. The length of this countryextends itself along the banks of this lake that bears thesame name for thirty furlongs, and is in breadth twenty.And this is the nature of the place. 9. But now, when the vessels were gotten ready, Vespasianput on ship-board as many of his forces as he thought sufficientto be too hard for those that were upon the lake, and set sailafter them. Now these which were driven into the lake couldneither fly to the land, where all was in their enemies' handand in war against them; nor could they fight upon the level 1 It may be worth our while to observe here, that near this lake ofGenncsarcth, grapes and figs hang on the trees ten months of the year.We may observe also, that in Cyril of Jerusalem, Cateches. xviii. 3, whichwas delivered not long before Easter, there were no fresh leaves of fig-treesnor bunches of fresh grapes in Judca; so that when St. Mark says, ch. li.13, that our Savior, soon after the same time of the year, came and fouadleaves on a fig-treo near Jerusalem, but no figs, became the time of new fysripening tvas not yet, he says very true ; nor were they, therefore, other thanold leaves which our Savior saw, and old figs which he expected, and whicheven with us commonly hang on the trees all winter long.