OCR Output 480 ROMAN EMPIRE. title of king. The Goths, the Gascons, and the Franks,assembled under the standard of this Christian hero: herepelled the first invasion of the Saracens; and Zama,lieutenant of the caliph, lost his army and his life underthe walls of Thoulouse. The ambition of his successorswas stimulated by revenge; they repassed the Pyrenneeawith the means and the resolution of conquest. The ad­vantageous situation which had recommended Narbonne,as the first Roman colony, was again chosen by the Mos­lems; they claimed the province of Septemania or Lan-guedoc as a just dependence of the Spanish monarchy;the vineyards of Gascony and the city of Bourdeauxwere possessed by the sovereign of Damascus and Samar-cand; and the south of France, from the mouth of theGaronne to that of the Rhone, assumed the manners andreligion of Arabia. Expedition But tnese narrow limits were scorned by theand Ticto- spirit of Abdalrahman, or Abderame, who hadAbderame, been restored by the caliph Hashem to the wishesA. D. 731. Of the sofers and people of Spain. That veteranand daring commander adjudged to the obedience of theprophet whatever yet remained of France or of Europe,and prepared to execute the sentence, at the head of aformidable host, in the full confidence of surmountingall opposition either of nature or of man. His first carewas to suppress a domestic rebel, who commanded themost important passes of the Pyrennees: Munuza, aMoorish chief, had accepted the alliance of the duke ofAquitain; and Eudes, from a motive of private or publicinterest, devoted his beauteous daughter to the embracesof the African misbeliever. But the strongest fortressesof Cerdagne were invested by a superior force: the rebelwas overtaken and slain in the mountains; and his widowwas sent captive to Damascus, to gratify the desires, or • Even before that colony, A. U. C. 630, (Velleius Patercul. 1. 15.) in the timeof Polybius, (Hist. lib. 3. p. 865. edit. Gronov.) Narbonne was a Celtic town of thefirst eminence, and one of the most northern places of the known world. (D'Aa-ville. Notice de I'Ancienne Gaule, p. 473.) I