OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. the slaves of Britain, or the gems and gold of Asiatic-kingdoms. In the language of ancient jurisprudence,which was corrupted and forgotten before the age of Jus­tinian, these spoils were distinguished by the name ofrnanceps or mancipium, taken with the hand; and when­ever they were sold or emancipated, the purchaser requir­ed some assurance that they had been the property of anenemy, and not of a fellow-citizen." A citizen couldonly forfeit his rights by apparent dereliction, and suchdereliction of a valuable interest could not easily be pre­sumed. Yet, according to the twelve tables, a prescrip­tion of one year for moveables, and of two years for im­moveables, abolished the claim of the ancient mas­ter, if the actual possessor had acquired them by a fairtransaction from the person whom he believed to be thelawful proprietor.b Such conscientious injustice, with­out any mixture of fraud or force, could seldom injurethe members of a small republic: but the various pe­riods of three, often, or of twenty years, determined byJustinian, are more suitable to the latitude of a greatempire. It is only in the term of prescription that thedistinction of real and personal fortune has been remark­ed by the civilians, and their general idea of property isthat of simple, uniform, and absolute dominion. Thesubordinate exceptions of me, of usufruct,* of servitudes?imposed for the benefit of a neighbour on lands andhouses, are abundantly explained by the professors of ju- • The res mancipe is explained from faint and remote ltghts by Ulpian (Fragment.tit. 18. p. 618, 619.) and Bynkershock. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 306—315.) The definitionis somewhat arhitrary; and as none except myself hare assigned a reason, I am dif­fident of my own. b From this short prescription, Hame (Essays, vol. 1. p. 423.) infers that therecould not then be more order and settlement in Italy than now amongst the Tartars.By the civilian of his adversary Wallace, he is reproached, and not without reason,for overlooking the conditions. (Institnt. lib. 2. tit. 6.) « See the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 4, 5.) and the Pandects, (lib. 7.) Noodt hascomposed a learned and distinct treatise de Usufructo. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 387—478.) . * The questions de Servitutibus are discussed in the Institutes, (lib. 2. tit. 3.) andPandects, (lib. 8.) Cicero, (pro Murena, c. 9. and Lactantius, (Institut. Divin.lib. 1. c. 1.) affect to laugh at the insignificant doctrine, de aquapluvia arcenda, &c.Yet it might be of frequent use among litigious neighbours, both in town andcountry.