OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 367 dreaded the loss of their fruit, resolved to revolt from theAthenians. Then they required of Brasidas himself to swearthe oath of their security, which the Lacedaemonian magis­trates had at his departure injoined him to take, that " what-" ever people was brought over into their alliance by him" should remain in possession of their own liberties and laws,"and this done, they receive his army. Not long after, Sta-gyrus also, another colony of the Andrians, revolted. Andthus ended the transactions of this summer. Very early in the succeeding winter, when the strong placesof Boeotia were to have been betrayed to Hippocrates andDemosthenes the Athenian commanders,preparatory to whichDemosthenes was to shew himself with his fleet before Siphae,and the other to march to Delium, there happened a mistakeabout the days prefixed for execution. Demosthenes indeed,who steered towards Siphae, and had on board the Acarna-nians, and many of the confederates of that quarter, is totallydisappointed. The whole scheme had been betrayed by Ni-comachus, the Phocian of Phanotis, who gave information ofit to the Lacedaemonians, and they to the Boeotians. AllBoeotians now taking up arms to prevent consequences (forHippocrates was not yet in their country to distress them onthat side), Siphae and Chaeronea are secured in time. Andso soon as the conspirators perceived that things went wrong,they gave up all farther thoughts of exciting commotions inthe cities. Hippocrates, having summoned into the field the wholeforce of Athens, as well citizens as sojourners, not exceptingeven foreigners who chanced at that time to be there, ar-riveth too late before Delium, not before the Boeotians werereturned home again from Siphae. He incamped his forces,and set about fortifying Delium, the temple of Apollo, in thefollowing manner.—Round about the temple and its pre­cincts they sunk a ditch: Of the earth thrown up they formeda rampart instead of a wall. They drove into the ground oneach side a row of stakes, and then threw on the vines they