OCR Output an. 1048.] 283 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. double row of cloisters; which stood on highupon pillars of native stone: while the roofswere of cedar, and were polished in a mannerproper for such high roofs; but he made allthe doors of this temple of silver. CHAP. IV. or Solomon's removal of the ark into the temple; his SUPPLICATION TO GOD, AND PUBLIC SACRIFICES. WHEN king Solomon had finished theselarge and beautiful buildings, and hadlaid up his donations in the temple, and allthis in the interval of seven years;* and hadgiven a demonstration of his riches and alac­rity therein; insomuch that any one who sawit would have thought it must have been an immense time ere it could have been finished,and would have been surprised that so muchshould be finished in so short time: he wroteto the rulers and elders of the Hebrews; andordered all the people to gather themselvestogether to Jerusalem,f both to see the tenvpie which he had built, and to remove theark of God into it. And when this invitationwas every where carried abroad, it was theseventh month before they came together;which month is by our countrymen calledThisri; but by the Macedonians Hyperbere-taeus.J The feast of tabernacles happened atthe same time, which was celebrated by theHebrews as a most holy and eminent feast.So they carried the ark,|| and the taberna-cle§ which Moses had pitched, and all the inner, or court of the priests; he must mean this in agross estimation only; for he and all others agree, thatthe inner temple, or court of the priests, was a few cubitsmore elevated than the middle court, the court of Israel;and that much more was the court of the priests elevatedseveral cubits above the outermost court; since the courtof Israel was lower than the one, and higher than theother. * The Septuagint says, that they prepared timber andstones to build the temple for three years: 1 Kings v. 18.And although neither our Hebrew copy, nor Josephus,directly name the number of years; yet do they bothsay the building itself did not begin till Solomon's fourthyear; and both speak of the preparation of materials be­forehand: 1 Kings v. 18. Antiq. VIII. 5. and Josephusthere intimates, that it was for a considerable time before-liand also. There is no reason therefore to alter the Sep-tuagint's number; but we are to suppose three years tohave been the just time of the preparation; as I have donein my computation of the expenses in building that tem­ple. See its description, chap. 13. where the whole timeis ten years and a half,t 1 Kings viii. 1. J This feast was appointed in commemoration of thechildren of Israel's dwelling in booths, whilst they werein the wilderness, and of the tabernacle, which at thattime was built, where God promised to meet them, todwell among them, and to sanctify the place with hisglory; and might therefore be well reckoned a very pro­per season for the dedication of the temple, which was tosucceed in the tabernacle's place. Bedford's ScriptureChronology, lib. vi. c. 2. B. II The sacred history tells us, that in this ark there wasnothing, save the two tables of stone, which Moses putthere at Horeb, 1 Kings viii. 9. and yet the author to theHebrews affirms, that in this ark was the golden pot thatbad manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, as well as thetables of the covenant, Heb. ix. 4. Now, to reconciletbis, some imagine, that before the ark had any fixed andsettled place, (which is the time the apostle refers to,)all these tilings were included in it, though it was chieflyintended for nothing but the tallies of the covenant; butthat, when it was placed in the temple, nothing was leftin it but these two tables; all the other things were de-VOL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24. posited in the treasury of the temple, where the book ofthe law (as we read in 2 Chron. xxxiv. 14) was found inthe days of king Josias. Others however pretend, thatin the time of the Apostle, i. e. towards the end of theJewish commonwealth, Aaron's rod, and the pot of mannawere really kept in the ark, though in the days of Solo­mon, they were not. But this answer would be moresolid and satisfactory, if he knew for certain, that, in thetime of the Apostle, the ark of the covenant was really inthe sanctuary of the temple, which Herod built; whereasJosephus (De Bello Jud. lib. vi. c. 6) tells us expressly,that, when the Romans destroyed the temple, there wasnothing found in the Holy of Holies. Calmet's Com­mentary. B. § But the question is, what tabernacle, whether thatwhich Moses made, and was then at Gibeon, 2 Chron. i.3. or that which was made by David, and was then at Je-'rusalem? To end this dispute, some have imagined, thatboth these tabernacles were at this time carried into thetemple, and laid up there, that all danger of superstitionand idolatry might thereby be avoided, and that no wor­ship might be performed any where, but only at thehouse which was dedicated to God's service: but it isobserved by others, that the convenience which Davidmade for the reception of the ark, was never called thetabernacle of the covenant; it was no more than a plaintent, set up in some large room of the royal palace, untila more proper receptacle could be provided for it: butthe tabernacle that was at Gibeon, was the same that so­journed so long in the wilderness. The tent was the same,the curtains the same, and the altar the same, that wasmade by Moses; or at least, if there was any alterationin it, (as things of this nature could hardly subsist so verylong without some repair,) the reparation was alwaysmade according to the original model, and with as littledeviation as possible. It is not to be doubted, then, butthat the Mosaic tabernacle is the tabernacle here intended,which, for the prevention of schism, and to make the tem­ple the centre of devotion, was now taken down, and repo-sked in the treasury, or storehouse, where it continueduntil the time that Jerusalem was taken by the Chaldeans,when Jeremiah, as Josephus informs us, (Jewish Antiq.lib. viii. c. 2) was admonished by God, to take it, andthe ark, and the altar of incense, and hide them in some3F