OCR Output 460 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP. the sacrifice of guiltless warns, was prohibited throughout the whole empire, byXXII.' express edict in 390. Polytheism appears from this period to haye sunk so* rapidly in all the provinces, that twenty-eight years after the death of the greatXheodosius, we find in the Theodosian code of the second emperor of that rthe following words: Pagan OS quos supersunt, quanquam jum nuDos essmiu. This expression was undoubtedly rather too general, but we may cfrom it, that the number of pagans was at that time become very r~able. Ed. Among many anecdotes respecting the destruction of the objects of jship, there is one which is so well told by Mr. Gibbon, that tie editor thinks thereader will not be displeased at its insertion. It relates to the celebrated statue ofSerapis at Alexandria. "The colossal statue of Serapis was involved in the ruin of his temple and reli­gion. A great number of plates of different metals, artificially joined together,composed the majestic figure of the deity, who touched on either side the walls ofthe sanctuary. The aspect of Serapis, his sitting posture, and the sceptre, whichhe bore in his left hand, were extremely similar to the ordinary representations ofJupiter. "He was distinguished from Jupiter by the basket, or bushel, which was placedon his head; and by the emblematic monster which he held in his right hand:the had and body of a serpent branching into three tails, which were again ter­minated by the triple heads of a dog, a lion, and a wolf. It was confidentlyaffirmed, that if any impious hand should dare to violate the majesty of the god,the heavens and the earth would instantly return to their original chaos. "An intrepid soldier animated by zeal, and armed with a weighty battle-axe,ascended the ladder; and even the Christian multitude expected, with someanxiety, the event of the combat , He aimed a vigorous stroke against the cheekof Serapis; the cheek fell to the ground, the thunder was still silent, and both theheavens and the earth continued to preserve their accustomed order and tranquil­lity. The victorious soldier repeated his blows, the huge idol was overthrown,and broken in pieces; and the limbs of Serapis were ignominiously draggedthrough the streets of Alexandra. His mangled carcass was burnt in the am­phitheatre, amidst the shouts of the populace; and many persons attributed theirconversion to this discovery of the impotence of their tutelar deity. The popularmodes of religion, that propose any visible and material objects of worship, havethe advantage of adapting and familiarizing themselves to the senses of mankind:but this advantage is counterbalanced by the various and inevitable accidents towhich the faith of the idolater is exposed. It is scarcely possible that, in everydisposition of mind, he should preserve his implicit reverence for the idols, or therelics, which the naked eye, and the profane hand, are unable to distinguish fromthe most common productions of art, or nature; and if, in the hour of danger,their secret and miraculous virtue does not operate for their own preservation, hescorns the vain apologies of his priests, and justly derides the objects, and the folly,of his superstitious attachments. After the fall of Serapis, some hopes were stillentertained by the pagans, that the Nile would refuse his annual supply to theimpious masters of Egypt; and the extraordinary delay of the inundation seemedto announce the displeasure of the river-god. But this delay was soon compen­sated by the rapid swell of the waters. They suddenly rose to such an unusualheight, as to comfort the discontented party with the pleasing expectation of a de­luge; till the peaceful river again subsided to the well,known and fertilizing levelof sixteen cubits, or about thirty English feet."