OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 159 " was dated before the fourth of the kalends of July, when Rufus" and Pompeius Sylvanus are consuls." 3. Herod also, the brother of the deceased Agrippa, who wasthen possessed of the royal authority over Chalcis, petitionedClaudius Caesar for the authority over the temple, and themoney of the sacred treasure, and the choice of the high-priests,and obtained all that he petitioned for. So that after that timethis authority continued among * all his descendants till the endof the war. Accordingly Herod removed the last high-priest,called Cantberas, and bestowed that dignity on his successor Jo­seph, the son. of Camus. CHAP. II. How Helena, the !j>ueen of Adialene, and her son I-zates, embracedtie Jewish religion ; and how Helena supplied the poor withcorn, ivben there was a great famine at Jerusalem. $ 1. A BOUT this time it was that Helena, queen of Adiabene,,**- and her son Izates, changed their course of life, andembraced the Jewish customs, and this on the occasion follow­ing : Monobazus, the king of Adiabene, who had also the nameof Bazeus, fell in love with his sister Helena, and took her to behis wife, and begat her with child. But as he was in bed withher one night, he laid his hand upon his wife's belly, and fell a-sleep, and seemed to hear a voice, which bid him take his handoff his wife's belly, and not hurt the infant that was therein,which, by God's providence, would be safely born, and have anhappy end. This voice put him into disorder ; so he awakedimmediately, and told the story to his wife ; and when his sonwas born, he called him I-zatet. He had indeed Monobazus, hiselder brother, by Helena also, as he had other sons by otherwives besides. Yet did he openly place all his affections on thishis only begotten \ son Izates, which was the origin of that envywhich his other brethren, by the same father, bore to him ;while on this account they hated him more and more, and wereall under great affliction that their father should prefer Izates be­fore all them. Now although their father were very sensible of these * Here is some error in the copies, 'or mistake in Josephus; for the power ofappointing high-priests, after Herod king of Chalcis was dead, and Agr'.ppa ju.nior was made king of Chalcis in his room, belonged to him, and he exercisedthe same all along till Jerusalem was destroyed, as Josephus elsewkere inform!us. ch. viii. sect. 8. 11. ch. ix. sect. I. 4. 6. 7. t Josephus here ufes the word /tnvytn, an only begotten son, for no other thanone best beloved, as does both the Old and New Testament, I mean where therewere one or more sons besides, Gen. xxii. 2. Heb. xi. 17. See the note on IS. 1.ch. xiii. sect. i.