OCR Output CXI.] JEWS CRUCIFIED. 217 the temple which they seemed to think came too slowly; and,indeed, when they saw that temple burning from the uppercity, they were neither troubled at it, nor did they shed anytears on that account, while yet these passions were discoveredamong the Romans themselves. "Which circumstances we shallspeak of hereafter in their proper place, when we come to treatof such matters. CHAPTER XI. HOW THE JEWS WERE CRUCIFIED BEFORE THE WALLS OF THECITY. CONCERNING ANTIOCIIUS EPIPHANES ; AND HOW THEJEWS OVERTHREW THE BANKS THAT HAD BEEN RAISED BYTHE ROMANS. § 1. So now Titus's banks were advanced a great way, not­withstanding his soldiers had been very much distressed fromthe wall. He then sent a party of horsemen, and orderedthey should lay ambushes for those that went out into thevalleys to gather food. Some of these were, indeed, fighting-men, who were not contented with what they got by rapine;but the greater part of them were poor people, who were de­terred from deserting by the concern they were under for theirown relations ; for they could not hope to escape away, to­gether with their wives and children, without the knowledgeof the seditious; nor could they think of leaving these rela­tions to be slain by the robbers on their account; nay, theseverity of the famine made them bold in thus going out: sonothing remained but that when they were concealed from therobbers, they should be taken by the enemy ; and when theywere going to be taken, they were forced to defend themselvesfor fear of being punished, as after they had fought, theythought it too late to make any supplications for mercy: sothey were first whipped, and then tormented with all sortsof tortures, before they died, and were then crucified1 before 'Reland very properly takes notice here, how justly this judgment cameupon the Jews, wheu they were crucified in such multitudes together, thatthe Romans wanted room for the crosses, and crosses for the bodies of thoseJews, since they had brought this judgment on themselves by the crucifixionof their Messiah. IV. —19