OCR Output 396 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. selves with Arribaeus. Upon which it was soon resolved be­tween them to retire, as there was reason to dread the ac­cession of men so renowned for military valour. Yet thedisagreement between them prevented their fixing on anycertain time for filing off. Night came on, in which theMacedonians and the crowd of Barbarians being struck witha sudden panic (as numerous armies are apt to be,, withoutany certain cause), and imagining that much larger numberswere coming against them than in fact was true, and thatthey were only not near enough to attack them, they in­stantly took to their heels and hurried homewards. Perdic-cas for a time knew nothing of the matter, and when in­formed of it, was compelled, by the flying troops, to dis­lodge in their company, without being able to get a sight ofBrasidas. For they were encamped at a distance from eachother. At the dawn of day, Brasidas perceived that the Macedo­nians had dislodged, and that the Illyrians and Arribaeus wereapproaching to attack him. He therefore drew his forces to­gether, forming a square with his heavy-armed, in the centreof which he disposed all the crowd of light-armed; and inthis form he intended to retreat. He appointed the youngestmen to sally out, in case the enemy any where attacked them :And he himself, with a picked body of three hundred, deter­mined to bring up the rear in person, in order to sustain andmake good their retreat against the van of the enemy whoshould press upon their rear. And before the enemy camenear, as well as the hurry would admit, he animated his sol­diers thus: " DID I not suspect, ye men of Peloponnesus, that thus" abandoned as you are and ready to be attacked by Barba-" rians, and those numerous too, you were in some conster-" nation, I should judge it needless to instruct or to encou-" rage you. But now, against this desertion of our friends," and this multitude of our enemies, I shall endeavour, by a" short admonition and exhortation, to raise within you the