OCR Output An. 22.] 565 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. a temple, that was seen a great way off,by those that were sailing for that haven,and had in it two statues, the one of Rome,the other of Caesar. As the city itself wascalled Caesarea: which was also built of finematerials, and was of a fine structure. Nay,the very subterranean vaults and cellars hadno less of architecture bestowed on them,than had the building above ground. Someof these vaults carried things at even dis­tances, to the haven, and to the sea; butone of them ran obliquely, and bound allthe rest together; that both the rain and thefilth of the streets were together carried offwith ease, and the sea itself, upon the fluxof the tide from without, came into the city,and washed it all clean. Herod also builttherein a theatre of stone: and on the southquarter, behind the port, he erected an am­phitheatre, capable of holding a vast num­ber of men, and conveniently situated for aprospect of the sea. So this city was thusfinished in *twelve years; during whichtime the king did not fail both to go onwith the work, and to pay the charges thatwere necessary. CHAP. X. OF ZENODORUS AND THE TRACHONITES; AND THE ACCUSA­TION BROUGHT AGAINST HEROD BY THE GADARENES. ALSO OF THE PHARISEES, THE ESSENES, AND MANAHEM. WHEN Herod had rebuilt Sebaste, orSamaria, he resolved to send hissons Alexander and Aristobulus to Rome, toenjoy the company of Caesar. Accordinglywhen they came thither, they were enter­tained at the house of tPollio, who was veryfond of Herod's friendship; and they hadleave to lodge in Caesar's own palace; for hereceived these sons of Herod with all hu­manity, and gave Herod permission to givehis kingdom to which of his sons he pleased:and, besides all this, he bestowed on him * Caesarea being here said to be rebuilt, and adornedin twelve years; and soon afterwards in ten years, XVI.5. there must be a mistake in one of the places, as to thetrue number: but in which of them it is hard positively todetermine. I prefer the latter reading: because in the13th and 14th years of Herod's reign was the terriblefamine in Judea: which would prevent any fulness ofhis treasury for some years: because then it will begin inhis 18th year, when we know he had recovered himselfenough to set about rebuilding the temple. Trachon, and Batanea, and Auranitis, on thefollowing occasion. One JZenodorus hadhired what was called the house of Lysanias.But he was not satisfied with its revenues,he became a partner with the robbers whoinhabited the Trachones; and so procuredhimself a larger income. For the inhabi­tants of those places lived in a mad way,and pillaged the country of the Damascenes;while Zenodorus did not restrain them, butpartook of the prey they acquired. Now asthe neighbouring people were hereby greatsufferers, they complained to Varro, whowas then president of Syria, and entreatedhim to write to Caesar about this injustice ofZenodorus. When these matters were laidbefore Caesar, he wrote back to Varro todestroy those nests of robbers, and to givethe land to Herod; that by his care theneighbouring countries might be no longerdisturbed with these doings of the Tracho-nites. For it was not an easy thing to re­strain them: since this way of robbery hadbeen their usual practice, and they had noother way to get their living; because theyhad neither any city of their own, nor landsin their possession; but only some recepta­cles and dens in the earth; and there theyand their cattle lived in common together.However, they had made contrivances toget pools of water, and laid up corn in gra­naries for themselves; and were able tomake great resistance, by issuing out sud­denly against any that attacked them. Forthe entrances of their caves were narrow;in which but one could come at a time: andthe places within incredibly large, and madevery wide. But the ground over their habi­tations was not very high, but rather on aplain: while the rocks are altogether hard,and difficult to be entered upon; unless anyone gets into the plain road, by the guidanceof another. For these roads are not straight,but have several revolutions. But when t This Pollio, with whom Herod's sons lived at Rome,was not Pollio, the Pharisee, already mentioned by Jose-phus, chap. 1, and again presently after this, chap. 10,but Asinius Pollio, the Roman. | The character of this Zenodorus is so like that of afamous robber, of the same name in Strabo, and that aboutthis very country, about this time also, that I think Dr.Hudson hardly needed to have put a perhaps to his de­termination that they were the same. See Strabo, XVI.page 756. if 4S2