OCR Output METELLIXUM. METHANA 349 won as the Carthaginian general discovered thearrival of Claudius, with an auxiliary force of 6000foot and 1000 horse, he broke up his camp and re­treated in the nipht to the Metaurus, which wasabout 14 miles from Sena. He had intended to crossthe river, but missed the ford, and ascended the rightbank of the stream for some distance in search ofone, till, finding the banks steeper and higher thefurther he receded from the sea, he was compelledto halt and encamp on a hill. With the break ofday the Soman armies overtook him, and compelledhim to a general engagement, without leaving himtime to eross the river. From this account it isclear that the battle was fought on the right bank ofthe Metaurus, and at no great distance from itsmouth, as the troops of Hasdrubal could not, aftertheir light march from Sena, have proceeded manymiles np the course of the river. The ground,which is weH described by Arnold from personalinspection, agrees in general character with the de­scription of Lrvy; but the exact scene of the battlecannot be determined. It is, however, certainly anerror to place it as high up the river as Fossombrone(Fomm Sempronri), 16 miles from the sea, or even,as Cramer has dune, between that town and thepass of the Furlo. Both he and Vaudoncourt placethe battle on the left bank of the Metaurus, whichis distinctly oppeeed to the narrative of Livy. Appianand Z^naras, though they do not mention tiie nameof the Metaurus, both fix the site of the Soman campat 6eaa; but the former has confounded this withSena ia Etruria, and has thence transferred the wholetheatre of operations to that country. (Appian,Awui. 52; Znnar. ix. 9; Arnold's Rome, vol. iii. pp.364—374; Vaudoncourt, Campagnes dAnnibul, vol.iii. »p. 59—64; Cramer's Italy, vol. i. p. 260.) 2. (Mrrtwoos), a river of Brattium, flowing intothe Tyrrhenian sea, between Medma and the Scyl-laeaa promontory. It is mentioned both by Plinyand Strabo; and there can be no doubt that it is theriver now called the Marro, one of the most consi­derable streams in this part of Bruttium, which flowsinto the sea about 7 miles S. of the Mesima, and18 from the rock of Scilla. (Strab. vi. p. 256; Plin.iii. 5. s. 10; Romanelb, vol. i. p. 66.) There was atorn of the same name at its mouth. [Metau-im] [E. H. B.] JiETELLFNUM (ft. Anton, p. 416; Metelion,GeoRr. Rav. iv. 44), or METALLl'NUM (ColoniaMeiillinensis, Plin. iv. 21. a. 35), a Roman colonyof I.usitania on the Anas, 24 Roman miles fromAugusta Emerita, now Medellin. The modern townlies on the southern side of the river, so that theancinu town ought to have been included in BaeticaHettce some modem writers have conjectured that theAnas may here have changed it* bed. The form ofthe name would lead to the supposition that the co­ke; was founded by Metellus, in which case Metel-Imun would be a more correct form than Metal-biim. METEON", a town oi the Labeate*, to whichGmtins removed his wife and family. (Liv. xliv.32; Medinn, Geogr. Rav.) It may perhaps beifresnited by the village of Meterees in the Iiiekad.wxiet of Mrmle-Segro, to the N. of fxike Scutari.(Wiiltinwn, Dalmatia, vol. i. p. 552.) [E. B. J.] METHA'NA (tb Mtfaya, Pans., Strab., et alii;Mrtava», Thuc iv. 45; Diod. xii. 65; Mtvrfvq, * Stmbo says (viii. p. 374), "that in some copies■f Thocydidea it was written ttiiwrn, like the town Ptol. iii. 16. § 12: Methana), a striking rockypeninsula, connected by a narrow isthmns with theterritory of Troezen in Argolis, and containing acity of the same name. Pausanias describes Me-thana as an isthmus running far into the sea (ii. 34.§ 1); Thucydides more correctly distinguishes be­tween the isthmus and chersonesus (iv. 45); andPtolemy also speaks of the chersonesus (iii. 16.§ 12). The isthmus is only about 1000 feet broad,but it immediately spreads out equally on both sides.The outline of the peninsula is grand and picturesque.The highest mountain, called Chelona, which is2281 (French) feet above the level of the sea, is ofa conical form, and was thrown up by a volcano.The whole peninsula bears marks of volcanic agency.The rocks are composed chiefly of that variety oflava called trachyte; and there are hot sulphureoussprings, which were used in antiquity for medicinalpurposes. Pausanias speaks of hot baths at thedistance of 30 stadia from the city of Methana,which were said to have first burst out of the gruundin the time of Antigonus, son of Demetrius, king ofMacedon, after a violent volcanic eruption. Pausaniasadds that there was no cold water tor the use of thebather after the warm bath, and that he could notplunge in the sea in consequence of the sea-dogs andother monsters. (Pans. /. c.) Strabo, in describingthe same volcanic eruption to which Pausanias al­ludes, says that a hill 7 stadia high, and fragmentsof rocks as high as towers, were thrown up; that inthe day-time the plain couid not be approached inconsequence of the In at and sulphureous smell, whileat night there was no unpleasant smell, but that theheat thrown out was so great that the sea boiled atthe distance of 5 stadia from land, and its waterswere troubled for 20 stadia (i. p. 59). Ovid de­scribes, apparently, the same eruption in the linesbeginning "Est prope Pittheam tumulus Troezena" {Met. xv. 296), and says that a plain was upheavedinto a hill by the confined air seeking vent. (Comp.Lyett's Principles of Geology, pp. 10, 11, 9th ed.)The French Commission point out the site of twohot sulphureous springs; one called Vroma, in themiddle of the north coast, and the other near avillage Vromolimni, a little above the eastern shore.There are traces of ancient baths at both places;but the northern must be those alluded to by Pau­sanias. The peninsula Methana was part of the territoryof Troezen; but the Athenians took possession ofthe peninsula in the seventh year of the Peloponne-siau War, b. c. 425, and fortified the isthmus.(Thuc. iv. 45.) There are still traces of anancient fortification, renewed in the middle ages,and united by means of two forts. In the penin­sula there are Hellenic remains of three differentmountain fortresses; but the capital lay on thewest coast, and the ruins are near the small vil­lage of the same name. Part of the walls of theacropolis and an ancient town on the north sidestill remain. Within the citadel stands a chapel,containing stones belonging to an ancient building,and two inscriptions on marble, one of which refers so called in Macedonia." This form is now found inall the existing MSS. of Thucydides. But there canbe no doubt that M/fara, which has prevailed downto the present day, is the genuine Doric form of thename.