OCR Output GOLD COIN. 31 diminished by the emperors: they were the smallest in the time ofNero, when there were 45 to the pound. 14. AN ACCOUNT OF THE EAGER DESIRE FOR GOLD. Money was the origin of avarice, after usury had been dis­covered, and the mode of becoming rich without labour. By de­grees not merely avarice, but the thirst of gold itself was inflamedto such a degree, that Septimuleius, when he had cut off the headof his friend C. Gracchus, carried it to Opimius, and claimed hisreward of its weight in gold, after having poured lead into themouth; thus, in addition to his crime of parricide, being guiltyof defrauding the republic. But, not to speak of individuals, theRoman name generally became so infamous in this respect, thatking Mithridates poured gold into the mouth of the generalAquilius when he took him prisoner. These are the fruits of thelust of gain. It is disgusting to observe the number of new termsderived from the Greek language, which are applied to the differentkinds of silver vessels, some of them covered with gold on theoutside and gilt within, and to see for what whimsical purposesthey are used, both those that are gilt, and those that are of solidgold; and especially when we know that Spartacus forbid any one inhis camp to have either gold or silver in his possession. So muchmore good sense is there in our run-away slaves! Messala, theorator, informs us, that Anthony, the triumvir, employed gold forthe most mean uses; and what was still more disgusting, that thesame was done by Cleopatra. It was considered an instance ofvery great luxury among foreigners, that king Philip, when heslept, had always a golden cup under his pillow, and Agno, theTeian, the praefect of Alexander the Great, used golden claspsfor his slippers. But among ourselves, in spite of what seems theorder of nature, Anthony employed gold for the most degradingof purposes, an act which might be protested against even bySpartacus. 15. WHO POSSESSED THE GREATEST QUANTITY OF GOLD AND SILVER. I wonder indeed that the Romans, when they exacted tributefrom those whom they had conquered, always demanded silver andnot gold. Thus when Carthage was conquered, after the defeatof Hannibal, the people were sentenced to pay 12,000 lbs. of silver