OCR Output WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. sarea, as he ought to have done, and quenching the flame of warwhich was beginning thence, and so taking away the occasion ofany disturbances, on which account it was that he had receiveda reward [of eight talents], he marched hastily with an armyof horsemen and footmen against Jerusalem, that he might gainhis will by the arms of the Romans, and might hy his terror,and by his threatenings, bring the city into subjection. 7. But the people were desirous of making Florus ashamed ofhis attempt, and met his soldiers with acclamations, and putthemselves in order to receive him very submissively. But he sentCapito, a centurion, before hand, with fifty soldiers, to bid themgo back, and not now make a shew of receiving him in an o-bliging manner, whom they had so fondly-reproached before;and said, that it was incumbent on them, in case they had ge­nerous souls, and were free speakers, to jest upon him to hisface, and appear to be lovers of liberty, not only in words, butwith their weapons also. With this message was the multitudeamazed, and upon the coming of Capito's horsemen into themidst of them, they were dispersed before they could salute Flo­rus, or manifest their submissive behaviour to him. Accord­ingly, they retired to their own houses, and spent that night infear and confusion of face. 8. Now at this time Florus took up his quarters at the pa-lace; and on the next day he had his tribunal set before it, andsat upon it, when the high-priests, and the men of power, andthose of the greatest eminence in the city, came all before thattribunal; upon which Florus commanded them to deliver upto him those that had reproached him, and told them that theyshould themselves partake of the vengeance to them belonging,if they did not produce the criminals; but these demonstratedthat the people were peaceably disposed, and they begged for­giveness for those that had spoken amiss; for that it was nowonder at all that in so great a multitude there should be somemore daring than they ought to be, and by reason of their young­er age foolish also; and that it was impossible to distinguish thosethat offended from the rest, while every one was sorry for whathe had done, and denied it out of fear of what would follow;that he ought, however, to provide for the peace of the nation,and to take such counsels as might preserve the city for theRomans, and rather for the sake of a great number of innocentpeople, to forgive a few that were guilty, than for the sake ofa few of the wicked, to put so large and good a body of men in­to disorder. 9. Florus was more provoked at this, and called out aloud tothe soldiers to plunder that which was called Tie Upper Mar­ket