OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 225 warning which he communicated to the consul Philippus, tobeware of the murderous emissaries of the Italians at thefederal festival on the Alban Mount, served only further tocompromise him, for it showed how deeply he was involvedin the conspiracies springing up among the Italians. Philippus insisted with daily increasing vehemence on the The Liviauabrogation of the Livian laws; the majority grew daily more 1"B'S an"lukewarm in their defence. A return to the former state of nulled-things soon appeared to the great multitude of the timidand the irresolute in the senate the only way of escape, anda decree cancelling these laws on account of informality wasissued. Drusus, after his fashion sternly acquiescing, con­tented himself with the remark that it was the senate itselfwhich thus restored the hated equestrian courts, and waivedhis right to render the decree of cassation invalid by meansof his veto. The attack of the senate on the capitalist' partywas totally repulsed, and willingly or unwillingly they sub­mitted once more to the former yoke. But the great capitalists were not content with having Murder ofconquered. One evening, when Drusus was just about at Drusus.his entrance hall to take his leave of the multitude which asusual escorted him, he suddenly dropped down in front of theimage of his father; an assassin's hand had struck him, andso surely that a few hours afterwards he expired. The per­petrator had vanished in the evening twilight without anyone recognizing him, and no judicial investigation took place;but none such was needed to bring to light in this ease thedagger, with which the aristocracy pierced its own flesh.The same violent and terrible end, which had swept away thedemocratic reformers, was destined also for the Gracchus ofthe aristocracy. It involved a profound and melancholylesson. Reform was frustrated by the resistance or by theweakness of the aristocracy, even when the attempt at re­formation proceeded from their own ranks. Drusus hadstaked his strength and his life in the attempt to overthrowthe dominion of the merchants, to organize emigration, toavert the impending civil war; he himself saw the mer­chants ruling more absolutely than ever, found all his ideasof reform frustrated, and died with, the consciousness thathis sudden death would be the signal for the most fearfulcivil war that ever desolated the fair land of Italy. VOL. III.