OCR Output SICULI. 989 SICYON. c scanty knowledge goes, therefore, we most■elude that the two shores of the Sicilian straitn at an* period peopled by the same tribe, whotn known to the Greeks by the name of Sicels ornkj and that this tribe was probably a branch of«'>notrian or Pelasgic race. The legends whichaarcted these Sicnli with those who were expelledm Latimn seem to have been a late invention, as I a a? infer from the circumstance that Sicelus,U u represented by Antiochus as taking refuge II Morgt*, king of Italia, was called a fugitivem Home. (Dionys. L 73.) i The Sicuh or Siceli were the people who oc-; -l me greater part of the island of Sicily whenitjrrek cuionirs were first established there, and!jtu«l throughout the period of the Greek domi-toa to oerapy the greater port of the interior,•iaily tlx more rugged and mountainous tractsthi island. [Siciua.] The more westerly • • »<-re. however, occupied by a people calledat:i. whom the Greek writers uniformly distinguish» the Sicnli, notwithstanding the resemblance ofi l«o name*. These indeed would seem to havea in their origin identical, and we find Roman t> oiing them as such; so that Virgil more thani -'>y» the name of Sicani, where he can only■a the ancient Latin people called by Dionysiusau. OTrjr. Aen. viii. 795, xi. 317.)I- The trace* of the Siculi on the western shores&e Adriatic are more uncertain. Pliny indeedi u distinctly that Numana and Ancona wereial by the Siculi (Plin. iii. 13. s. 18); but itJ t» means improbable that this is a mere con* • i- we know that the latter city at least wasI" founded by Sicilian Gretla, as late as the time-' ty-ius of Syracuse [Ancona]. When,ever, he tells us that a considerable part of thisa af Italy was held by the Siculians and Libiir-a. before it was conquered by the Umbrians (lb.a 19), it seetna probable that he must havei xh-r authority for this statement; Pliny is,r*er, tiw only author who mentions the Siculi"is part of Italy. ran these statements it is very difficult to arrivery definite conclusion with regard to the ethno-tuc affinities of the Siculi. On the one hand,nxices of them in Southern Italy, as alreadyrrad, seem to bring them into close connection tike I tali and other Oenotrian tribes, and wouldaa to assign them to a Pelasgic stock: but oncaber it must be admitted that Dionysius dis­hy separates them from the Pelasgi in Lalium,represents them aa expelled from that countrya* Peiasgi, in conjunction with the so-calledigiaa*. Hence the opinions of modern scholars been divided: N'iebuhr distinctly receives thei as a Pelasgic race, and as fonning the Pelas-r Greek element of the Latin people; the sameb adopted by O. Muller (Etruiker, pp. 10—kr.) and by Abeken (Mittel Italian, p. 5);i Grotefend {Alt /(alien, vol. iv. pp. 4—6), fol-I by Forbiger and others, regards the Siculi as aah or Celtic race, who had gradually wanderedrwsxda through the peninsula of Italy, till theyy in—nil over and established themselves in theI of Scary. This last hypothesis is, however,v conjectural. We hare at least some foun-l for auppusing the Siculi as well as the Oeno-i to be of Pelasgic origin : if this be rejected,r» wholly in the dark as to their origin or■aa. [E. H. U.] SI'CULUM MARE (to Simaiko* ire'An-ros, Pol.Strab. &c), was the name given in ancient times tothat portion of the Mediterranean sea which bathedthe eastern shores of Sicily. Rut like all similarappellations, the name was used in a somewhatvague and fluctuating manner, so that it is difficultto fix its precise geographical limits. Thus Strabodescribes it as extending along the eastern sh 'te ufSicily, from the Straits to Cape Pachynus, with thesouthern shore of Italy as far as Loch, and again tothe eastward as far as Crete and the Peloponnese;and as filling the Corinthian Gulf, and extendingnorthwards to the lapygian promontory and themouth of the Ionian gulf. (Strab. ii. p. 123.) Itis clear, therefore, that he included under the namethe whole of the sea between the Peloponnese andSicily, which is more commonly known as the Ionian,sea [Ionium Make], but was termed by laterwriters the Adriatic [Adbiaticum Make]. Poly-bins, who in one passage employs the name ofIonian sea in this more extensive sense, elsewhereuses that of the Sicilian sea in the same generalmanner as Strabo, since he speaks of the island ofCephallenia as extending out towards the Siciliansea (v. 3); and even describes the Ambracian gulfas an inlet or arm of the Sicilian sea (iv. 63, v. 5).Eratosthenes also, it would appear from Pliny, up-plied the name of Siculum Mare to the whole extentfrom Sicily to Crete. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 10.) Theusage of Pliny himself is obscure; but Mela distin­guishes the Sicilian sea from the Ionian, applyingthe former name to the western part of the broad sea,nearest to Sicily, and the latter to its more easterlyportion, nearest to Greece. (Mel. ii. 4. § 1.) Rutthis distinction does not seem to have been generallyadopted or continued long in use. Indeed the nameof the Sicilian sea seems to have fallen much intodisuse. Ptolemy speaks of Sicily itself as boundedon the N. by the Tyrrhenian sea, on the S. by theAfrican, and on the E. by the Adriatic; thus omit­ting the Sicilian sea altogether (Ptol. iii. 4. § 1);and this seems to have continued under the RouiauEmpire to be the received nomenclature. Strabo tells us that the Sicilian sea was the -ann:which had previously been called the Au < m m(Strab. ii. p. 133, v. p. 233); but it is probable thatthat name was never applied in the more extendedsense in which he uses the Sicilian sea, but was con­fined to the portion more immediately adjoining thesouthern coasts of Italy, from Sicily to the lapygianpromontory. It is in this sense that it is employedby Pliny, as well as by Polynias, whom he ciles ashis authority. (Plin. I. c.) [E. H. H.] SICUM (Su-ovf, Ptol. ii. 16. § 4; Plin. iii. 22;Siclis, Peut. Tab.), a town of Dalmatia, to the E. ofTraguriuin, on the road to Salona, where Claudiusis said U> have quartered the veterans. (Plin. L c.)From its position it cannot be Sebtnieo, with whichit has been identified, but may be represented by thevestiges of a Roman station to the KW. of CattelVttturi, on the Hitiert iki Catttlli, where a columnwith a dedicatory inscription to M. Julius Phllippushas been lately found, as well as much potteryand Roman tiles. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia, vol. i. p.176.) [E. B. J.] Sl'CYON (4 and i Ximiiv, also 2<autvv, Bekker,Anted, p. 555: Eth. 2iKuei»iof: the territory 2i-Kiwria: Vaiilikd.) I. Situation.—Sicyon was an important city ofPeloponnesus,situated upon a table-height of no greatelevation, at the distance of about 2 uiiles from the