OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Z&3 filled up their numbers, by insisting into the public service, thestoutest and most willing of the Plebeians. The Alemanni, asto­nished with the sudden appearance of an army more numerous thantheir own, retired into Germany, laden with spoil; and their retreatwas esteemed as a victory by the unwarlike Romans 39. When Gallienus received the intelligence that his capital was de- The senators . , excluded by livered from the barbarians, he was much less delighted, than alarmed, Gallienuswith the courage of the senate, since it might one day prompt them tury service,to rescue the republic from domestic tyranny, as well as from foreigninvasion. His timid ingratitude was published to his subjects, inan edict which prohibited the senators from exercising any militaryemployment, and even from approaching the camps of the legions.But his fears were groundless. The rich and luxurious nobles>sinking into their natural character, accepted, as a favour, this dis­graceful exemption from military service; and as long as they wereindulged in the enjoyment of their baths, their theatres, and theirvillas; they cheerfully resigned the more dangerous cares of em­pire, to the rough hands of peasants and soldiers 90." Another invasion of the Alemanni, of a more formidable aspect, Gallienus contracts an but more glorious event, is mentioned by a writer of the lower em- alliance with c l-i the Altmannv pire. Three hundred thousand of that warlike people are said tohave been vanquished, in a battle near Milan, by Gallienus in per­son, at the head of only ten thousand Romans 9'. We may how­ever, with great probability, ascribe this incredible victory, either tothe credulity of the historian, or to some exaggerated exploits of oneof the emperor's lieutenants. It was by arms of a very differentnature, that Gallienus endeavoured to protect Italy from the fury ofthe .Germans. He espoused Pipa the daughter of a king of theMarcomanni, a Suevic tribe, which was often confounded with theAlemanni in their wars and conquests **. To the father, as theprice of his alliance, he granted an ample settlement in Pannonia.The native charms of unpolished beauty seem to have fixed the daughter