OCR Output 108 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. count; and to let him know that she with hermaidens would do the same: and then shepromised that she would go to the king,though it were against the law; and that ifshe must die, she would not refuse it.* Accordingly Mordecai did as Esther hadenjoined him, and made the people fast,f andhe besought God, together with them, not tooverlook his nation, particularly at this time,when it was going to be destroyed. But that,as he had often before provided for them, andforgiven them, when they had sinned, so hewould now deliver them from that destructionwhich was denounced against them. For al­though it was not the nation that had at alloffended, yet must they so ingloriously beslain; and that he was himself the occasionof the wrath of Haman: "because," said he,"I did not worship him; nor could I endureto pay that honour to him, which I used topay to thee, O Lord. For upon that his angerhath he contrived this present mischief againstthose that have not transgressed thy laws."The same supplications did the multitudeput up: and entreated that God would pro­vide for their deliverance; and free the Is­raelites that were in all the earth from thiscalamity which was now coming upon them.For they had it before their eyes, and ex­pected its coming. Accordingly Esther madesupplication to God, after the manner of hercountry; by prostrating herself upon theearth, and putting on her mourning garments,and bidding farewell to meat and drink, andall delicacies for three days' time; and sheentreated God to have mercy upon her, andmake her words appear persuasive to theking, and render her countenance more beau­tiful than it was before: that by both herwords and beauty she might succeed, for theaverting of the king's anger, in case he wasirritated against her; and for the consolationof those of her own country, now they werein the utmost danger of perishing: as alsothat he would excite a hatred in the kingagainst the enemies of the Jews, and those that had contrived their future destruction,if they proved to be contemned by him. When Esther had offered this supplication,for three days, she put off those garments;and changed her habit, and adorned herselfas became a queen; and took two of herhandmaids with her: one of whom supportedher, as she gently leaned upon her; and theother followed after, and held up her largetrain with the extremities of her fingers. Andthus she came to the king: having a blushingredness in her countenance; with a pleasantagreeableness in her behaviour. Yet did shego in to him with fear. And as soon as shewas come over against him, as he was sittingon his throne, in his royal apparel; whichwas a garment interwoven with gold andprecious stones, which made him seem to hermore terrible; especially when he looked ather somewhat severely, and with a counte­nance on fire with anger, her joints failedher, out of the dread she was in; and shefell down sideways in a swoon. But the kingchanged his mind; which happened, as Isuppose by the will of God; and was con­cerned for his wife, lest her fear should bringsome ill thing upon her: and he leaped fromhis throne, and took her in his arms, and re­covered her, by embracing her, and speakingcomfortably to her, and exhorting her to beof good cheer, and not to suspect any thingthat was sad on account of her coming tohim without being called; because the lawwas made for subjects: but that she, whowas a queen, might be entirely secure. Andas he said this, he put the sceptre into herhand;J and laid his rod upon her neck, onaccount of the law; and so freed her fromher fear. And after she had recovered her­self by these encouragements, she said, "Mylord, it is not easy for me, on the sudden, tosay what hath happened: for as soon as Isaw thee to be great, and comely, and terri­ble, my spirit departed from me; and I hadno soul left in me.*' And while it was withdifficulty, and in a low voice, that she cottid * Esther iv. 16. t This is not to be understood, as if the people wereto take no manner of sustenance for three days, becausefew or none could undergo that, but only, either thatthey should abstain from all delicacies, and content them­selves with coarse fare, as Josephus expounds it, or thatthey should make no set meals of dinner or supper in theirfamilies, but eat and drink no more than would suffice to sustain nature, and support them in prayer to God for ablessing upon her undertaking. Patrick's and Le Cterc*sCommentaries. B. J A sceptre was the ensign of the highest and mostabsolute authority; and therefore some have observed,that when Mordecai was advanced to the greatest dignitynext the king, having the royal robes, and other ensignsof royal dignity, no mention is made of any sceptre, for