OCR Output 6« TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. & Ancus. The number of inhabitants being so considerablyincreased, in such a multitude, to distinguish between agood action and a bad, was no easy matter; so that manysecret acts of villainy'were committed. Wherefore, tocheck such growing licentiousness, he built a prison inthe heart of the city, overlooking the forum.-«lJnder theauspices of Ancus, the city w^,not only enlarged, butthe Roman territories extended.\J The forest Micsia was taken from the Vejentes, theRoman domain carried out to the sea, Ostia built at themouth of the Tiber, salt-pits dug about it; and, in grati^tude for his extraordinary success, he enlarged the tem­ple of Jupiter Feretrfts. CHAP. XXXIV. Luctano coma to Rome. J.N the reign of Ancus, Lucumo, a man of great sub­stance and address, came to settle at Rome. Ambition,and the hopes of rising to honours in the state, a thinghe found quite impracticable in his native Tarquinii, asIiis father was a foreigner, were the leading motives tothis measure. He was the son of Damaratus of Corinth,who having fled from his country for seditious practices,.happened to settle at Tarquinii, where he married, andhad two sons, Lucumo and Aruns. Lucumo survived his4'ather, and succeeded to his estate; but Aruns died be­fore him, leaving his wife pregnant. The father did notlong survive him, and being ignorant of the circumstanceof his step-daughter's pregnancy, made no provision forjt in his will. The posthumous grand-child, having beendisinherited before he was born, was, from that very cir­cumstance, called Egerius: Lucumo, on the other hand, having now become soleheir of his father's fortune, and his spirts rising with hiscircumstances, became still more elevated upon his mar­riage with Tanaquil, a lady of great distinction, whocould not easily bear the thoughts, that the rank of theman she had married, should be below what her birthand high connections entitled her husband to have. Inshort, disdaining to live in her native city, where her- nsband was not respected according to his merit, be­