OCR Output CHAP. 8. . ROMAN HISTORY. f\S voured by the plague. The senate, destitute of all hu­man aid, recommended to the people to look up to thegod,s, and have recourse to prayer, ordering them to gowith their wives and children in procession, and suppli­cate the divine mercy. Called upon thus, by public au­thority, to act a part, which every one's distress, as anindividual, made his bounden duty, all the temples werecrowded, where the matrons prostrating themselves onthe floors, which they brushed with their hair, deprecat­ed the divine wrath, and implored the gods to put anend to the plagae. ti - CHAP. VIII. The plague abates. Great slaughter of the Vokei. X* ROM this time, the sickness gradually abated; whc-• ther it was the effect of their prayers, or that the sicklyseason was past, all signs of disease began to disappear,and give place to health and vigour. Now they direct­ed all their attention to public affairs; and after severalinterregnums, P. Valerius Publicola, the third day, afterhe had been chosen inter-rex, nominated L. Lucretius-Tricipitinus, and T. Veturius Geminus,consuls. In somehistorians, the last is called Vetusius. They enteredupon their oflicc on the ninth ef August; at which time,the citizens were so much recovered, that they were inft condition not only to act upon the defensive, but tocarry the war into, the heart of the enemy's country. In consequence of advices from the Hernici, that theircountry was invaded, the Romans readily promised them -assistance. Two consular armies were levied. Veturiuswas sent to attack the Volsci in thoir own country, andTricipitinus havkig posted himself so as to prevent thecountry of the allies from- being plundered, went no far­ther than the territories of the Hernici. In the very firstaction, Veturius obtained a complete victory over theVolsci. The pillagers escaped the vigilance of Lucre­tius, as he lay encamped in the country of the Hernici;.and marching along the tops of the hills of Praneste,rnade a descent upon the plains. There they'Tavagedthe lands of Prseneste and Gabii; and from Gabiimarched round the hills of Tusculum.