OCR Output 2.14 MACEDONIAMACEDONIA. times as they do now, accordingly as tliey dwell inMountain or plain, or in toil or climate more or lesskindly, though distinguished from each other, byhaving substantive names of their own, acknowledged jone common nationality. Finally, the various sec­tions, such as the Elymiotae, Orestae, Lyncestae,and others, were swallowed up by those who werepre-eminently known as the Macedonians, who hadtheir original centre at Aegae or Edessa. (Comp.Grote, Jiut. of Greece, c. xxv.) Macedonia in iu proper sense, it will be seen, didnot touch upon the sea, and must be distinguishedinto two parts,— 1'ppk.k Macedonia, inhabited byjieoplo about the \V. range of mountains extendingfrom the N. as far as Pindus, and Lowek Mace­donia about the rivers which How into the Axius; inthe earlier times, not, however, extending as far asthe Axius, but only to Pella. From this district,the Macedonians extended themselves, and partly re­pressed the original inhabitants. The whole of thesea-coast was occupied by other tribes who arementioned by Thucydidcs (ii. 99) in his episode onthe expedition of the Thracians against Macedonia.There is some little difficulty in harmonising hisstatements with those of Herodotus (viii. 138), as tothe original series of occupants on the Thermaicgulf, anterior to the Macedonian conquer. So faras it can be made out, it would seem that in theseventh century b. c, the narrow strip betweenthe Peneius and Haliacinon, was the original abodeof the Pierian Thracians; N. of the l'ierians, fromthe mouth of the llaliacinon to that of the Axius,dwelt the Bottiacai, who, when they were expelledby the Macedonians, went to Chalcidicc. Nextfallowed the Paeoniaus, who occupied both banks ofthe Strymon, from its source duwn to the lake nearits mouth, but were pushed away from the coasttowards the interior. Mygdonia. the lower countryE. of the Axius, about the Thermaic gulf, was, pre­viously to the extension of the Macedonians, in­habited by Thracian Kdonians. While Upper Mace­donia never attained to any importance, LowerMacedonia has lieen famous in the history of theworld. This was owing to the energy of the royaldynasty of Edessa, who called themselves Heracleids,and traced their descent to the Tenicnidae of Argot.Kcspecting this family,there were two legends:accord­ing to the one,the kings were descended fromCaranus,and according to the other from Perdiccas: the lattertale which is given by Herodotus (viii. 137 —139),bears much more the marks of a genuine local tra­dition, than the other which cannot be traced higherthan Theojiompus. (Dexipptis up. StjnceU. p. 2<»2.)After the legend of the foundation of the Mace­donian kingduin, there is nothing but a long blank,until the reign of king Amyntas (about 520—500B. c ), and his ion Alexander (al>out 480 B. c).Herodotus (/. c: comp. '1 hue. ii. 100) give* a list oflive successive kings between the founder Perdiccasand Alexander — Perdiccas, Argaeus, Philipjms,Ac'ropas, Alcetas, Amyntas, and Alexander, the con­temporary, and to a certain extent ally, of Xerxes.During ttie reign of these two last princes, who wereon friendly terms with the Peisistratidae, and after­wards with the emaneij>ated Athenians, Macedoniabecomes implicated in the affairs of Greece, (lierod.L 59, t. 94, vii. 136.) Many barbarous customs, such as that of tattoo­ing, which prevailed among the Thracians and I IK',nans, must have fallen into disuse at a vary earlyperiod. Even the usage of the ancient Macedonians, that every person who had not killed an enemy,should wear some disgraceful badge, had been uWcontinucd in the time of Aristotle. (/W. rii. 2. § 6.)Vet at a very late date no one was permitted to Imdown at table who had not slain a wild boar withoutthe nets. (Hcgesander, ap. Allien, i. p. 18.) Outhe other hand, a military disposition, persof^lvalour, and a certain freedom of spirit, were tl;enational characteristics of this people. Long beforePhilip organised his phalanx, the cavalry of Maceu.-nwas greatly celebrated, especially that of the high­lands, as is shown by the tetradrachms of Ah-x-ander I. In smaller numbers they attacked tb»close array of the Thracians of Sitalces, relying ontheir skill in horsemanship, and on tlieir defensivearmour. (Thuc. ii. 100.) Teleutias the Spartanalso admiral the cavalry of Elimea (Xen. Utll. v. 2.§ 41, v. 3. § 1); and in the days of the conquests ofAsia, the custom remained that the king could nutcondemn any person without having first taken thavoice of the people or of the army. (Polyb, t. 27;Q. Curt. vi. 8. § 25, vi. 9. § 34.) II. Macedonia in the historic period till the deathof A Uxamh-r. This kingdom had acquired considerable powereven before the outbreak of the Persian War. andGrecian refinement and civilisation must have gaitM.ilconsiderable ground, when Alexander the Pi.illiehVu*offered himself as a combatant at the Olympic garnet(Herod, v. 22; Justin, vii. 12), and honoured th»poetry of Pindar (Solin. ix. 16). After that waxAlexander and his son Perdiccas appear graduallyto have extended their dominions, in consequence ofthe fall of the Persian power in Thrace, as far as theStrymon. Perdiccas from being the ally of Atheuabecame her active enemy, and it was from hit in-trigues that all the difficulties of Alliens on theThracian coast arose. The faithless Perdiccas, waasucceeded by his son Arehelaus, who first establishedfortre ses and roads in his dominions, and formed aMacedonian army (Thuc. ii. 100), and even intendedto procure a navy (Solin. ix. 17), and had tragediesot Euripides acted at his court under the directionof that poet (Ael. V.ll. ii. 21, xiil. 4), while bi*palace w-as adorned with paintings by Zeuxi* (Arl.V. II. xir. 17). In B.C. 399, Arehelaus pertohedby a violent death (Died. xiv. 37; Ariel. Pot T. 8,10—-13; Plat. Akibuid. ii. p. 141, D). A list Ukings follows of whom we know little but the name*.Orestes, son of Arehelaus, a child, was placed ap^athe throne, under the guardianship of Ai-a-pus. 'I !»»•latter, however, after about four years. made mjwith his ward, and reigned in hit stead fur twoyears; he then died of sickneaa, and was succeededby his sua Pausanias, who, after a reign of only oneyear, was assassinated and succeeded by Amyntas.(l)iod. xiv. 84—89.) The power of Macedonia mdeclined with these frequent detbronemenU and at-sassinationa of its kings, that Amyntas had to cedeto Olynthut all the country about the Thermaicgulf. (Diod. xiv. 92, xv. 19.) Amyntas, who wasdependant on, if not tributary to, Jason, the " lagus"of Thcssaly, died nearly about the tame time as thatprince (Diod. xv. 60), and was succeeded by huyouthful son Alexander. After a short reign of twoyears, u. c. 368, Alexander i»rished by avsassinsti- n.the fate that so frequently befell the Macedoniankings. Eurydice, the widow of Amyntas, was hrttwith her two younger children, Perdiccas, now ■young man, and Philip, yet a yonth; IlvWruaeu* of