OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 175 tude of both nations present), and told them that hehad been sent for the purpose of restoring them toliberty, and, as they themselves saw, aid was now af­forded him from home. But with what force, with howgreat an army the war was to be carried on, was amatter that depended intirely on them. That therewere two Roman armies, one in Gaul, another in Etru-ria; and he was well assured that Spurius Lucretiuswould join his forces to those of Marcus Livius; where­fore they on their side must arm many thousands, toenable them to oppose two Roman generals and twoarmies.' The Gauls answered, that 'they had thestrongest inclination to act as he advised; but as theyhad one Roman army in the heart of their country, andanother in the next adjoining province of Etruria, al­most within their sight, if it should be publicly knownthat they gave aid to the Carthaginians, those twoarmies would immediately commence hostilities againstthem on both sides.' They requested him to ' demandsuch assistance only as the Gauls could supply insecret. The Ligurians,' they said, ' were at libertyto determine as they thought fit, the Roman campsbeing far distant from their lands and cities; besides,it was reasonable that they should arm their youth,and take their part in the war.' This the Liguriansdid not decline; they only required two months timeto make their levies. Mago, having sent home theGauls, hired soldiers privately in their country; pro­visions also of all kinds were sent to him secretly bytheir several states. Marcus Livius led his army ofvolunteer slaves from Etruria into Gaul, and havingjoined Lucretius, kept himself in readiness to opposeMago, if he should move from Liguria towards thecity; intending, if the Carthaginian should keep him­self quiet under that corner of the Alps, to continue inthe same district, near Ariminum, for the protection ofItaly. 6. After the return of Caius Laelius from Africa, al­though Scipio was urged to expedition by the repre­sentations of Masiuissa, and the soldiers, on seeing the