OCR Output 746 ROMA. KOMA. of the Romans, ami to the use which they made ofthe ancient monuments to serve their own selfishand mercenary purposes. The factions of theGuelphs and Gbibelinea, of the Colonna ami Ursini,which began in tin* tenth century and Listed severalhundred years, must have heen very destructive to*]ie city. In these sanguinary quarrels tiie ancient„ .ifices were converted into castles; and the mul­titude of the latter may be estimated from the factthat the senator Brancaleone during bis government(1252 —1258) caused 140 towers, or fortresses, thestrongholds uf the nobility, to be demolished in Runeand its neighbourhood; yet subsequently, underMartin V'., we still hear of forty-four existing in onequarter of the city alone. (Matthew 1'aris, Hist. Moj.p. 741, seq.) Some of these were erected on themost celebrated buildings, as the triumphal monu­ments of Caesar, Titus, and the Antoninea. (Mont-faucn, D'tar. Ital. p. 186; Anonymus, ib. p. 285.)lint still more destructive were the ravage.* com­mitted on the ancient buildings during times ofpeace. The beautiful sculptures and architecturalmembers, which could no longer be imitated, wereseized upon and appropriated to the adornment ofnew structures. We have seen that this barbarouskind of spoliation was exercised as early as the reignof Constantino, who applied the sculptures of somemonument of Trajan's to adorn his own triumphalarch. In after ages Charlemagne carried off thecolumns of Rome to decorate his palace at Aix-la-Chapelle (Sigebert, Ckron. in Bouquet, Hisiorimu(h France, v. p. 378); and several centuries laterPetrarch laments that his friend and patron, Robert,king of Sicily, was following the same perniciousexample. ("Itaque nunc, lieu dolor! hen scelus iu-dignnm ! de reatria marmoreia columnta, de Unuoibuatemplorutn (ad quae nnper ex orbe toto coocurauidevotiaaimua fiebat), de imaginibna Bepulcrorum subquibus patrum reatrornm venerabilu cinis crat, utreliquaa bileam, desidiosa Napolia adomatur," Petrar.Opp. p. 530, tan.) It would be endless to recountthe depredations committed by the popes and noblesin order to build their churches and palaces. Theabbe Bartbe*lemi (Mem. de FA cad. dee Inter, xx v i j i.p. 5S5) mentions that he had wen at Koine a manu­script letter relating to a treaty between the chiefsof the factions which desolated Rome in the 14thcentury, in which, among other articles, it is agreedthat the Colosseum shall be common to all parties,who shall be at liberty to take stones from it. (DeSa-ie; Vie de Petrarque, i. 328, note.) Sixtus V.employed the stones of the Septisooium in buildingSt. Peter's. (Greg. Leti, Vita aV Sitto V. iii. p. 50.)The nephews of Paul III. were the principal de­stroyers of the Colosseum, in order to build theFarnese palace (Huratori, Ann. oT Italia, xiv. p.371); and a similar reproach was proverbially ap­plied to those of Urban VIII. (" Quod non feceruntBarbari, fecere Barberini," Gibbon, viii. p. 284, note.)lint even a worse species of desecration than thiswxs the destruction of the most beautiful marblecolumns, by converting them into lime. Toggiocomplain-, (a.D. 1430) that the temple of Concord,which was almost perfect when he first came toHome, had almost disappeared in this manner. (** Ca-pitolio contigua forum versus lupereat pocticni aedisC .n«ordiae, quam emu primum ad urbeui accessi,vidi fere integrum, ojiere marmoreo ndmodum spe-cioso; Romani puetmodum, ad calcem, aedem totamet portions partem, disject is colnmnia, sunt demo-liti," de Var. Fort. p. 12.) And the same practice | is reprobated in the verso of Aeneas SjH'ias, lita-wards Pope PSm II.:— "Sed tuus bic populus, rnurU defossa vetartk,Calcis in obsequium mannora dun coqtlImpia tercentum si sic gens egerit smmNullum hie indicium nobihtalis frit" (In Mabillon, .Via. ltd.lt) The melancholy progress of the desdttat iRome might be roughly traced from some imemorials. The account of the writer calM IAnonymus Einsiedlensis, who Tisited Ruu* «frsthe 9th century, which has been pobiaeni IMabillon (AnaL w. p. 502), and by Hand (Jf, PkUel w. Piidag. i. p. 115), exhibits 11more copious list ot monuments than that dmanonymous writer, who compiled a book /* Jbilibus liomae, in the 12th or 13th ceo tan. (Ufaucon, friar. Ital. p. 283, seq.; Jubby. IfLett, di Roma, 1820, Kusc i.—it.) Srt«l |sages in the works of I'etrarch exhibit tat Iand desolate state of Rome in the 14th ceoaayT^Jconsequence of the removal uf the holy mtwinon. Thus, in a letter to I rion V\, bf I** Jacent domus, labaut maenia, teinpla muzi. ipereunt, calcantur leges.1' And a Unit*' Late rami in humi jacet et Eoi lesianun mmnium tccto carens venits patet ac pJuvus5 Atlib. ix. ep, 1.) Yet the remains ot' aacaellsplendour were still considerable enough to ithe wonder and admiration oi Manuel Cbat the commencement of the 15th century,seen in his epistle to the emperor John 1(subjoined to Codinus, de Antiq. C. P. p- lut.SMuch destruction must have beeu perpetrsJtaithis j«riod to the time, and even during tie IPoggio. But the progress of desolat**have been arrested subsequently to that1whose catalogue of the ruins docs not exhiiat Imany more remains than may yet be his now taken to arrest as fax a* prtt&ibbinevitable influence of time; and the ibaa at present nothing to regret exceptactive means are not applied to thethe ancient city. The funds devoted to 1erection of a magnificent basilica far wittlwalls, and on so unwholesome a bite that 4monks arc forced to desert it during the tsummer, might, in the eye at least of txaaaitaste, have been more worthily devoted to Iobject. VTL PorciAim or KoxlBefore we close this part of the subject atexpected that we should say soateliiincthe probable amount of the populationThe inquiry is unfortunately inv...-. <sj mscurity, and the vagueness of the data many calculation can be founded is suchUBpoaatbla to arrive at any wholly;elusion. The latitude hence allowed ifrom the fact that the estimate* of imodern scholars are about fourthose of others; and whilst Durema de la Jhis Kconomie politique de* Homai*%s (i_ p. msets down tiie population at 562,UUO aoalin his liamische Gtsckickte (vol. i, pc m• ].). estimates it at 2.265.000; nay 1 i\uMhis work Dc Mmjnitudine Romamm (na, jQ]carried it up to the astounding number at 1But this is on absurd exaggeration; whiist. I