OCR Output 58 VESPASIAN. [b. m. thus thrown out of the sea was four thousand and two hundred.The Komans also took the city without opposition, and utterlydemolished it. 4. And thus was Joppa taken twice by the Romans in alittle time; but Vespasian, in order to prevent these piratesfrom coming thither any more, erected a camp there, wherethe citadel of Joppa had been, and left a body of horse in it,with a few footmen, that these last might stay there andguard the camp, and the horsemen might spoil the countrythat lay round it, and might destroy the neighboring villagesand smaller cities. So these troops overran the country, asthey were ordered to do, and every day cut to pieces, andlaid desolate the whole region. 5. But now, when the fate of Jotapata was related at Jeru­salem, a great many at the first disbelieved it, on account ofthe vastness of the calamity, and because they had no eye­witness to attest the truth of what was related about it;for not one person was saved to be a messenger of that news,but a fame was spread abroad at random, that the city wastaken, as such fame usually spreads bad news about. How­ever, the truth was known by degrees from the places nearJotapata, and appeared to all to be too true. Yet were therefictitious stories added to what was really done; for it wasreported that Josephus was slain at the taking of the city,which piece of news filled Jerusalem full of sorrow. In everyhouse, also, and among all to whom any of the slain wereallied, there was a lamentation for them ; but the mourningfor the commander was a public one, and some mourned forthose that had lived with them, others for their kindred,others for their friends, and others for their brethren, butall mourned for Josephus ; insomuch that the lamentationdid not cease in the city before the thirtieth day, and a greatmany hired mourners,1 with their pipes, who should begintheir melancholy ditties for them. 1 These public mourners, hired upon the supposed death of Josephus, andthe real death of many more, illustrate some passages in the Bible, whichsuppose the same customs, as Matt. xi. 17, where the reader may consultthe note of Grotius.