OCR Output S68 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP.XXXIX. art and success in the defence of Constantinople; and, the galleys, with two and three ranks of oars, command­ed the Bosphorus, and rendered the Persians the idlespectators of the defeat of their allies. The Avars wererepulsed; a fleet of Sclavonian canoes was destroyedin the harbour; the vassals of the chagan threatenedto desert, his provisions were exhausted, and afterburning his engines, he gave the signal of a slow andformidable retreat *. After the division of his army, Heraclius prudentlyretired to the banks- of the Phasis, from whence hemaintained a defensive war against the fifty thousandgold spears of Persia. His anxiety was relieved bythe deliverance of Constantinople; his hopes wereconfirmed by a victory of his brother Theodorus; andto the hostile league of Chosroes with the Avars theRoman emperor opposed the useful and honourablealliance of the Turks. At his liberal invitation, thehorde of Chozars transported their tents from the plainsof the Volga to the mountains of Georgia; Hera­clius received them in the neighbourhood of Teflis;and the khan with his nobles dismounted from theirhorses, if we may credit the Greeks, and fell pro­strate on the ground, to adore the purple of the Caesar.Such voluntary homage and important aid were en­titled to the warmest acknowledgments; and the em­peror, taking off his own diadem, placed it on thehead of the Turkish prince, whom he saluted with atender embrace and the appellation of son. Aftera sumptuous banquet, he presented Ziebel with theplate and ornaments, the gold, the gems, and thesilk, which had been used at the Imperial table, and,with his own hand, distributed rich jewels and ear­ Alliancesand con­quests ofHeraclius. * The Paschal Chronicle (p. 392—397) gives a minute and authentic narrativeof the siege and deliverance of Constantinople. Theophanes (p. 2G4) adds somecircumstances; and a faint light may be obtained from the smoke of George ofPisidia, who has composed a poem (de Bello Abarico, p. 45—54) to comme­morate this auspicious event.