OCR Output 350 THE DECLINE AND FALL citap. an independent standard at Hierapolis in Syria: hej was betrayed by fallacious promises, and burnt alive in the market-place of Constantinople. Deprived ofthe only chief whom they could fear or esteem, thebands which he had led to victory were twice brokenby the cavalry, trampled by the elephants, and piercedby the arrows of the Barbarians; and a great numberof the captives were beheaded on the field of battleby the sentence of the victor, who might justly con­demn these seditious mercenaries as the authors oraccomplices of the death of Maurice. Under thereign of Phocas, the fortifications of Merdin, Dara,Amida, and Edessa, were successively besieged, re-His con- duced, and destroyed, by the Persian monarch: heSyri£of passed the Euphrates, occupied the Syrian cities,a. d. en; Hierapolis, Chalchis, and Berrlnea or Aleppo, andsoon encompassed the walls of Antioch with his irre­sistible arms. The rapid tide of success disclosesthe decay of the empire, the incapacity of Phocas,and the disaffection of his subjects; and Chosroesprovided a decent apology for their submission orrevolt, by an impostor who attended his camp, as theson of Maurice* and the lawful heir of the mon­archy. The first intelligence from the East which He-raclius received f was that of the loss of Antioch; butthe aged metropolis, so often overturned by earth­quakes and pillaged by the enemy, could supply buta small and languid stream of treasure and blood. * The Persian historians have been themselves deceived; but Theophanes(p. 244) accuses Chosroes of the fraud and falsehood; and Eutychius believes(Annal. tom. ii. p. 211) that the son of Maurice, who was saved from the as­sassins, lived and died a monk on mount Sinai. + Eutychius dates all the losses of the empire under the reign of Phocas, anerror which saves the honour of Heraclius, whom he brings not from Carthage,but Salonica, with a fleet laden with vegetables for the relief of Constantinople(Annal. tom. ii. p. 223, 224). The other Christians of the East, Barhebrsus(apud Asseman, Bibliothec. Oriental, tom. iii. p. 412, 413), Elmacin (Hist. Sa­racen, p. 13—16), Abulpharagius (Dynast . p. 98, 99), are more sincere and ac­curate. The years of the Persian war. are disposed in the chronology of Pagi.