OCR Output 30 IGLETKS. IGUVIUM. Ktruria, directly opposite to the Mons Argeutaiiusand the port of Cum. It is, next to llva, the mostconsiderable of the Elands near the coast of Ktruria,being 6 miles long by about 3 in breadth, and con­sists of a group of mountains of considerable eleva-tion. Hence Kutilius speaks uf its " silvosa cacu-mina." {/tin. i. 325.) F'rom tliat author vre lenrnthat, when Kome was taken by Alaric (a. d. 410), anumber of fugitives from the city took refuge inlgilium, the insular position of which arlorded themcomplete security. Caesar also mentions it, duringthe Civil War, in conjunction with the neighbouringport of Cusa, as furnishing a few vessels to Domi-tius, with which that general sailed for Massilia.(Cues. li. C. i. 34; Pun. iii. 6. s. 12; Mela, ii. 7.§ 19.) It is evident, therefore, that it was inhabitediu ancient as well as modem time*. [E. II. B.JIGLfcTES, IGNE'TES. [HiaPAKiA.]IGULLIO'NES, in European Sarmatia, mentionedby 1'tolemy as lying between the Stavani and Cois-toboci, and to the east of the Vctiedi (iii. 5. § 21).Now the Stavani lay south of the Galindae andSudini, populations of which the locality is known tobe that uf the Ualinditae and Sudovitae of the middleages, i. e. the parts about the Spirding-tet in EastPrussia. This would place the IgulUones in thesouthern part of Lithuania, or in purls of Grodno,I'odolia, and P'ottyiuio, in the country of theJaxicinaiof the thirteenth century, — there or thereabouts.Zeuss has allowed himself to consider some such formas 'Uvyylmrts as the truer rending; anil, so doing,identities the nanus, as well as the localities, of thetwo populations ("iTt/jrytW, Jacuring),—the varieties•f form being very numerous. The Jaevingt wereIMkwmiaitt—Lithuanians as opposed to Slavonians;and in this lies their ethnological importance, inas­much as the southward extension of that branch ofthe Sannatian stuck is undetermined. (See Zeuss,t. v. Jazuringi.) [K. G. !-•] IGU'VIUMO'yoww: £/A.i£iivinus: VvUno),mancient and important town of L'inbria, situated onthe W. slope of the Apennines, but not far fromtheir central ridge, and on the lelt of the Via Fla-minia. It* existence as an ancient Umbrian city issufficiently attested by its coins, as well as by a re­markable monument presently to be noticed; but wefind no mention of it in history previous to the periodof its subjection to Koine, and we only learn inci­dentally trom Cicero that it enjoyed the privilegedcondition of a " toederala civitas," and that the termsof its treaty were of a highly favourable character.(Cic. pro Balb. 20, where the reading of the older |editions, "Fulginatiuni," is certainly erroneous: seeOrelli, ad loc.) i he first mention of its name oc­curs in Livy (xlv. 43, where there is no doubt weshould read lguvinm for " Igiturvium ") as the place I■elected by the Koman senate for tlie confinement ofthe Illyrian king Gentius and his sons, when the Ipeople of Spolclium refused to receive them, lisnatural strength of position, which was evidently the Icause of iU selection on this occasion, led also to its |bearing a conspicu.ms part in the beginning uf the Icivil war between Caesar and I'otnpey, when it was .uccnpisd by the praetor Minucius Ihermus with livecohorts; but on the approach of Curio with threecohorts, Thermns, who was apprehensive of a re­volt of the riiiiens, abandoned the town without 1resistance. (Can. li. C. L 12; Cic «d Att. vii. 13, |b.) Under the Risnan dominion Iguvium seems to jhave lapsed into the condition of an ordinary mu- |nicipal town: we find it noticed in an inscription as I one of the '■ xv. populi Umbriao " (OrelL Inter. 98),as well as by Pliny and Ptolemy (l'lin. iii. 14. s. 19;Ptol. iii. I. § 53), and it is probable that in Stral«>also we should read ,l7ot»»oi' for tlie corrupt nam*"iToupoF of the MSS. and earlier editions. (Strah.v. p. 227; Cluver. Ital p. 626.) But ita secludedposition in the mountains, and at a distance of somemiles from the line of the Via Flaminia, was pro­bably unfavourable to its prosperity, and it does n».tseem to have been a place of much importance.Siliua Italicus speaks of it as very subject to fogs(viii. 459). It early became the see of a bishop,and retained its episcopal rank throughout the middleages, when it rose to be a place of considerably moreimportance than it had enjoyed under the [Ionianempire. The modern city of Gulbio contains no ruins ofancient date; but about 8 miles to the E. of it. at aplace now called La ScAieggia, on tlie line of thoancient Flaminian Way, and just at tlie highestpoint of the pass by which it crosses the main ridgeof the Apennines, some vestiges of an ancient templeare still visible, which are suppiwed with good reasonto be those of the temple of Jupiter Apenninus.This is represented in the Tabula Peutingeriana a*existing at the highest point of the pass, and isnoticed also by Claudian in describing the pro?re*»of Honorius along the Flaminian Way. (Claudian.de VI. Com. Hon. 504; Tab. Peut.) The oracleconsulted by the emperor Claudius "in Apennino"(Treb. Poll. Claud. 10) may perhaps have referenceto tlie same spot. Many bronze idols and othersmall objects of antiquity have been found near theruins in question; but a far more important dis­covery, made on the same site in 1444, was that ofthe celebrated tables of bronze, commonly known asthe Tabulae Kugubinae, which are still preserved inthe city of Gufjbio. These tables, which are seveniu number, contain long inscriptions, four of whichare in Etruscan characters, two in Latin, and ouepartially in Etruscan and partially in Latin cha­racters; but the language is in all cases appareutlytlie same, and is wholly distinct from that of thegenuine Etruscan monuments on the one band, aawell as from Latin on the other, though exhibiting;strong traces of affinity with the older Latin forms,as well as with the existing remains of the Dmdialects. There can be no doubt that the languagewhich wo here find is that of the L'uibriaiis them­selves, who are represented by all ancient writers asnationally distinct both from the Etruscans and theSabellian races. The ethnological and linguisticinferences from these important monuments will bemore fully considered under the article Umiiiua. Itis only of late years that they have been investigatedwith care; early antiquaries having fanned th* moatextravagant theories as to their meaning: Lanzi hadthe merit of first pointing out that they evidentlyrelated only to certain sacrificial and other reli^iouarite* to be celebrated at the temple of Jupiter by thalgoviana themselves and tome neighbouring com­munities. The interpretation has since been carriedout, as far aa our imperfect knowledge wdl permit,by Lepaiua, Grotefend, and still more recently in th*elaborate work of Aufrecht and Kinhhoff. (Laiui,Stggio di Lingua Etruaca, vol. iii. pp. 657—768;Lepsius, dt Tubmlit Ewjubinil, 1833 ; IntcriptianmCmbrieae tt Oteat, Lips. 1841; Grotefend, HmH.mtnta Linguae I'mbriau, Hannov. 1835—18391Aufrecht n. Kirchboff, Dit Vntbritekm Sproxk.Ihninvil.r. 4to. Berlin, 1849.) In (ha still int-