OCR Output Iviii NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. ing to the lowest computation of that age, must haveexceeded three thousand pounds a year. He generousty requeued the permission of employing it inrebuilding the college. See his Oration De restau-randis scholis ; which, though not exempt fromvanity, may atone for his panegyrics. [124] Porphyry died about the time of Diocle­tian's abdication. The life of his master Plotinus,which he composed, will give us the most completeidea of the genius of the sect, and the manners ofits professors. Thii very curious piece is insertedin Fabricius, Bibliptheca Grxca, torn. iv. p.88—148. NOTES ON THE FOU [1] li/s De Montesquieu (Considerations fur laIVJs • Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains,c. 17.) supposes, on the authority of Orosiu3 andEusebius, that, on this occasion, the empire, for thefirst time, was real/y divided into two parts. It isdifficult, however, to discover in what respect theplan of Galerius differed from that of Diocletian. [2] Hie r.on modo amabilis, fed etiam venera-bilis Gallis suit; praecipue quod Diocletiani fuf-pectam prudentiam, et Maximiani sanguinariamviolentiam imperio ejus evaferanr. Eutrop. Bre-viar. x. 1. [3] Divitiis Provincialiura (mel. provinciarum)ac privatorura studens, fisci commoda non admo.dum affectans; ducensque melius publicas opes aprivatis haberi, quam intra unum claustrum reser-vari. Id. ibid. He carried this maxim so far, thatwhenever he gave an entertainment, he was obligedto borrow a service os plate. [4] Lactantius de Mort. Persecutor, c. 18. Werethe particulars of the conference more consistentwith truth and decency, we might still a(k, howthey came to the knowledge of an obscure rheto­rician? But there are many historians who putus in mind of the admirable saying of the greatConde to cardinal de Retz; "Ces coquins nous"font parler et agir, comme ils auroient fait eux-"memes a notre place." [(] Sublatus nuper a pecoribus et silvis (faysLactantius de M. P. c. 19.) statim Scutarius, continuoProtector, mox Tribunos, postridie Cæsar, accepitOrientem. Aurelius Victor is too liberal in giving. him the whole portion of Diocletian. RTEENTH CHAPTER. [fi] His diligence and fidelity are acknowledgedeven by Lactantius, de M. P. e. 18. [7] These schemes however rest only on the verydoubtful authority of Lactantius, de M. P. c. ao. [£] This tradition, unknown to the contempo­raries of Constantine, was invented in the darknessof monasteries, was embcllistied by Jeffrey of Mon-mouth, and the writers of the xiith century, hasbeen defended by our antiquarians of the last age,and is seriously related in the ponderous history ofEngland, compiled by Mr. Carte, (vol. i. p. 147.).He transports, however, the kingdom of Coil, theimaginary father of Helena, from Essex to the wallof Antoninus. [9] Eutropius (x. 2.) expresses, in a sew words,the real truth, and the occasion of the error,"/'* cb-"scuritri malrim'inio ejus filius." Zosimus (1. ii.p. 78.) eagerly seized the most unfavourable report,and is followed by Orosius (vii. 25»)> whose authorityis oddly enough overlooked by the indefatigablebut partial Tillemont. By insisting on the divorceof Helena, Diocletian acknowledged her marriage. [io] There are three opinions with regard tothe place of Constantine's birth. I, Our Englishantiquarians were used to dwell with raptureon the words of his panegyrist; '* Britannia*illic oriendo nobiles fectsti." But this cele­brated passage may be referred with as much pro­priety to the accession as to the nativity of Con­stantine. 2. Some of the modern Greeks haveascribed the honour of his birth to Drepanum, atown on the gulf of Nicomedia, (Cellarius, torn. ii.p. 174.) which Constantine dignified with the name of