OCR Output ' OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 89 thousand years by Shah Abbas, the wisest and most powerful of his successors. (1)His ambition was fired by the hope of launching a Persian navy from the Phasis,of commanding the trade and navigation of the Euxine sea, of desolating thecoast of Pontus and Bithynia, of distressing, perhaps of attacking, Constantinople,and of persuading the barbarians of Europe to second his arms and counsels againstthe common enemy of mankind. Under the pretence of a Scythian war, he si­lently led his troops to the frontiers of Iberia; the Colchian guides were preparedto conduct them through the woods and along the precipices of mount Caucasus;and a narrow path was laboriously formed into a safe and spacious highway, forthe march of cavalry, and even of elephants. Gubazes laid his person and dia­dem at the feet of the king of Persia; his Colchians imitated the submission oftheir prince: and after the walls of Petra had been shaken, the Roman garrisonprevented, by a capitulation, the impending fury of the last assault. But the Lazisoon discovered, that their impatience had urged them to choose an evil more in­tolerable than the calamities which they strove to eacape. The monopoly of saltand corn was effectually removed by the loss of those valuable commodities. Theauthority of a Roman legislator was succeeded by the pride of an oriental despot,who beheld with equal disdain, the slaves whom he had exalted, and the kings■whom he had humbled before the footstool of his throne. The adoration of fire■was introduced into Colchos by the zeal of the Magi: their intolerant spirit pro­voked the fervour of a Christian people; and the prejudice of nature or educationwas wounded by the impious practice of exposing the dead bodies of their parents,on the summit of a lofty tower, to the crows and vultures of the air. (2) Con­scious of the increasing hatred, which retarded the execution of his designs, thejust Nushirvan had secretly given orders to assassinate the king of the Lazi, totransplant the people into some distant land, and to fix a faithful and warlike colo­ny on the banks of the Phasis. The watchful jealousy of the Colchians foresawand averted the approaching ruin. Their repentance was accepted at Constanti­nople by the prudence, rather than the clemency, of Justinian; and he commandedDagisteus with seven thousand Romans, and one thousand of the Zani, to expelthe Persians from the coast of the Euxine. siege of Petra, which the Roman general, with the aid of the Lazi, imme-undertook, is one of the most remarkable actions of the age. The city wason a craggy rock, which hung over the sea, and communicated by a steepand narrow path with the land. Since the approach was difficult, the attack mightbe deemed impossible; the Persian conqueror had strengthened the fortificationsof Justinian; and the places least inaccessible were covered by additional bulwarks.In this important fortress, the vigilance of Chosroes had deposited a magazine ofoffensive and defensive arms, sufficient for five times the number, not only of thegarrison, but of the besiegers themselves. The stock of flour and salt provisions■was adequate to the consumption of five years; the want of wine was supplied byvinegar, and of grain, from whence a strong liquor was extracted; and a tripleaqueduct eluded the diligence, and even the suspicions, of the enemy. But thefirmest defence of Petra was placed in the valour of fifteen hundred Persians, whoresisted the assaults of the Romans, whilst in a softer vein of earth a mine was se­cretly perforated. The wall, supported by slender and temporary props, hungtottering in the air; but Dagisteus delayed the attack till he had secured a specificrecompense; and the town was relieved before the return of his messenger fromConstantinople. The Persian garrison was reduced to four hundred men, of whomno more than fifty were exempt from sickness or wounds; yet such had been theirinflexible perseverance, that they concealed their losses from the enemy, by en­during, without a murmur, the sight and putrifying stench of the dead bodies oftheir eleven hundred companions. After their deliverance, the breaches werehastily stopped with sand-bags; the mine was replenished with earth; a new wallwas erected on a frame of substantial timber; and a fresh garrison of three thou­sand men was stationed at Petra, to sustain the labours of a second siege. The ope- (1) See the amusing letters of Pietro della Valle.the Roman traveller (Viagsi, torn. ii. p. 207.209.213.215.266.286.300. torn.iii. p.54. 127.) In tbe year 1611,1619, and 1620, he conversed with Shah Abbas, andstrongly encouraged a design which might have united Persia and Europe against their common enemy theTurk. (2) See Herodotus (lib. i. c.140. p. 69.,) who speaks with diffidence; Larcher (torn. i.p. 399—401. Notes surHerodote:) Procopius (Persic lib. i. c. 11..) ami Airathias(lib.ii. p. 61, 62.) This practice,agreeableto the Zen-rlavesta (Hyde, de Relig. Pers. c. xxxiv. p. 414—421.,) demonstrates that the burial of the Persian kings (Xeno-phon. Cyropsed. lib. viii. p. 658.,) t. yxp toutou ftMu^tarsfan rou ttj /jtttfuvxiyii a Greek fiction, and that theirtombs could be no more than cenotaphs. Vol. III. 12