OCR Output 240 NOTES. from stage to stage of his history you are made acquainted with his conduct,notice the lights and shades by which his character is brought out more andmore distinctly, till at length he stands before you, not so much a perfect pic­ture, as a living man, with not only his entire life but his whole heart nakedand open to your view. And do not fail to observe, how much of character isdeveloped often by a word or phrase. For example, in the last quotation: " adreadful carnage was a spectacle added to the public games—the' populaceenjoyed the havoc," what an emphasis of meaning there is in the words initalics, and how they probe to the bottom the depths of corruption in thehearts of the city populace ! So when Vitellius was met and escorted into thecity by an infamous band of pimps, of charioteers, of players and buffoons,"all well known and dear to him by their utility in vicious pleasures," Tacitusadds: " such were tho disgraceful connections of the emperor, and he enjoyedthem without a blush."* How much of Vitellius is exhibited in this singlestroke ! This is characteristic of Tacitus. No writer ever conveyed so muchknowledge of things, and especially so much insight into men, in so few words.In like manner, the finisl,ing stroke in the portraiture of Galba (already men­tioned, p. 237) brings out as it were the whole nature of the man with all itsgreatness and all its infirmities. So of Galba's adopted son, for whom he in­spires us with a just reverence and love in half a dozen words: quasi imperareposset, quam vellet. In like manner, he shows us the exact condition of theRoman state in half a sentence, when he makes Galba say to Piso: " you arecalled to rule over men who cannot endure either entire slavery or entire free­dom—jut nec lotam servitulem pati possunt, nee totam libertatem." With tho accession of Vespasian to the throne, closes what is now extantof the Histories of Tacitus. We have not even the record of his arrival atRome. While he was proceeding deliberately through Egypt towards theimperial city, and busying himself partly in providing for the necessities ofthe city, partly in discovering his own future fortunes by the aid of thoEgyptian priests (His. 4, 81-8fi), Mucianus exercised all the prerogatives ofsovereignty in his stead; Domitian aspiring to usurp power which did notbelong to him, and failing in the attempt, gave himself up to dissipation;and Titus, succeeding to his father's command in Judaea, was advancing tothe siege of Jerusalem (5,1-13). Such is the posture of affairs, when the His­tories are brought suddenly to a close. The Jewish War is left incomplete.The fragment which remains is invested with peculiar interest to the Chris­tian, because it is so intimately connected at so many points with his holyreligion. Tacitus entertained many and violent prejudices against the Jews.It is not strange that he did. They were too exclusive in their politics andtoo intolerant in their religion, to be appreciated by any foreigners, most ofall by the liberal and polytheistic or free-thinking Romans. Accordinglythey received little mercy from Roman officers, and little sympathy fromRoman scholars. Despised as superstitious by the learned, and hated as sedi­tious by the great at Rome, it is not surprising that Tacitus should de­nounce them as a sordid, gloomy, unsocial and misanthropic race. It is infact but the very treatment they havo practically met with from the restof the world ever since. Not only prejudice against their singularities, but * It will be seen that litis example is near the close of the 2d Book (ch. 87).