OCR Output 96 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. even a bond fide proprietary tenure, and, in the exceptional in­stances where he could do so, he was confronted by the factthat by the Roman law prescription availed not against thestate. The distribution of the domains was no abolition,but on the contrary an exercise, of the right of property ; alljurists were agreed as to its formal legality. But the attemptnow to carry out these legal claims of the state was farfrom being politically warranted by the circumstance, thatthe distribution of the domains neither infringed the existingconstitution nor involved a violation of right. Such objec­tions as have been now and then raised in our day, when agreat landlord suddenly begins to assert, in all their com­pass, claims belonging to him in law but suffered for a longperiod to lie dormant in practice, might with equal andbetter right be advanced against the rogation of Gracchus.These occupied domains had been undeniably in heritableprivate possession, some of them for three hundred years;the state's proprietorship of the soil, which from its verynature loses more readily than that of the burgess the charac­ter of private right, had in the case of these lands becomevirtually extinct, and the present holders had universallycome to their possessions by purchase or other onerous ac­quisition. The jurist might say what he would; to men ofbusiness the measure appeared to be an ejection of the greatlandholders for the benefit of the agricultural proletariate;and, in fact, no statesman could give it any other name.That the leading men of, the Catonian epoch were of thesame opinion, is very clearly shown by their treatment of asimilar case that occurred in their time. The territory ofCapua and the neighbouring towns, which was annexed as 211. domain in 543, had for the most part practically passed intoprivate possession in the following unsettled times. In thelast years of the sixth century, when in various respects,especially through the influence of Cato, the reins of govern­ment were drawn tighter, the burgesses resolved to resumethe Campanian territory and to lease it for the benefit of 172. the treasury (582). The possession in this instance restedon an occupation justified not by the previous invitationbut at the most by the connivance of the authorities, andhad continued in no case much beyond a generation; but theholders were not dispossessed except in consideration of acompensatory sum disbursed under the orders of the senate