OCR Output 216 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. from harm; and what had passed would provevery pernicious to his master." When theservant had said this, Abigail, (for that wasthe wife's name,) saddled her asses, andloaded them with all sorts of presents; andwithout telling her husband any thing of whatshe was about, for he was not sensible onaccount of his drunkenness, she went toDavid. She was then met by David, as shewas descending a hill, for he was coming Wainst Nabal with the four hundred men.hen the woman saw him, she leaped fromher ass, and fell on her face, and bowed downto the ground; and intreated him not to bearin mind the words of Nabal; since he knewthat he resembled his name: Now Nabal, inthe Hebrew tongue, signifies folly. So sheapologized by saying, that she did not seethe messengers whom he sent. "Forgiveme, therefore," said she, "and thank Godwho hath hindered thee from shedding humanblood. For so long as thou keepest thyself*innocent, he will avenge thee of wicked men.For those miseries which await Nabal, willfall upon the heads of thine enemies. Bethou gracious to me, and think me so farworthy as to accept these presents; and outof regard to me remit that wrath and angerwhich thou hast against my husband, and hishouse. For mildness and humanity becomethee; especially as thou art to be our king."Accordingly David accepted her presents,and said, "O woman! it was no other than God's mercy which brought thee to us to-day.For otherwise thou hadst never seen anotherday; I havingf sworn to destroy Nabal's housethis very night, and to leave alive not one ofyou who belonged to a man that was wicked,and ungrateful to me, and my companions.But now hast thou prevented me, and sea­sonably mollified my anger; as being thyselfunder the care of God's providence. But asfor Nabal; although, for thy sake, he nowescape punishment, he will not always avoidjustice for his evil conduct, which on someother occasion, will be ruin." When David had said this, he dismissedthe woman. And when she came home, andfound her husband feasting with a great com­pany, and oppressed with wine, she saidnothing to him about what had happened;but on the next day, when he was sober, shetold him all the particulars, and made hiswhole body to appear like that of a deadman,J by her words; and by that grief whicharose from them. So Nabal survived onlyten days, and then died.|| And when Davidheard of his death, he said that God had justlyavenged him of this man; for that Nabal diedby his own wickedness, and had sufferedpunishment on his account; while he had kepthis own hand clean. At which time he under­stood, that the wicked are persecuted byGod; that he does not overlook any man, butbestows on the good what is suitable to them,and inflicts a deserved punishment on the * Here we may perceive how Josephus, nay, howAbigail herself, would understand, the not avenging our­selves, but heaping coals of fire on the head of the inju­rious: Prov. xxv. 21, 22. Rom. xii. 20. not as we com­monly do now, of melting them into kindness; but ofleaving them to the judgment of God; to whom vengeancebelongeth: Deut. xxxii. 35. Ps. xciv. 1. Heb. x. 30. andwho will take vengeance on the wicked. And since allGod's judgments are just, and all fit to be executed; andall, at length, for good of the persons punished, I inclineto think that to be the meaning of this phrase, of heapingcoals of fire on their heads. So also, as it seems to me,do the Apostolical Constitutions understand it, I. 2. t We imy note here, that how sacred soever an oathwas esteemed among the people of God in old times, as Ihave fully shewn in my Scripture Politics, p. 54—65,they did not think it obligatory where the action wasplainly unlawful. For so we see it was in this case ofDavid; who although he had sworn to destroy Nabal, andhis family, yet does he here, and 1 Sam. xxv. 32, 33, 31bless God for preventing his keeping this oath, and fromshedding of blood as he had sworn to do. J The words in the original are, " He became a stone;"but our translation has wisely supplied the particle at,which should always be done, when the scripture affirms something of another that is not absolutely of the samenature. We may observe, however, that this manner ofexpression is very common among profane authors. ThusOvid brings in Ariadne expressing her grief and astonish­ment at the loss of Theseus, who had left her in the islandDia: Aut mare prospiciens in saxo frigida sedi.Quamque lapis seges, tarn lapis ipsa fui. The like expression is used of Hecuba, when she saw thedead body of her son Polydorus: -duroque simillima saxo. Torpet But in the case of Niobe, who is said to be turned into astatue of stone, Cicero, in his Tusculan Questions ob­serves, that this fable only represents her perpetualsilence in mourning; and accordingly Josephus tells usof Nabal that when his wife told him of the danger hehad escaped, he was struck with such an astonishment,that he fell into a dead numbness all over his body, ofwhich he soon died. Le Clerc,s Comment, and Dm. Destatu,/ salis. 6.II 1 Sam. xxv. 38.