OCR Output 484 [book xm ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. his coming with a strong body of men, mustbe with an intention to kill him: and that hisway of reasoning was this; that it was a sillything in him, while it was in his power toreign himself, to look upon it as a great fa­vour that he was honoured with a lower dig­nity by his brother. Aristobulus yielded to these imputations:but took care both that his brother shouldnot suspect him, and that he himself mightnot run the hazard of his own safety: so heordered his guards to lie in a certain placethat was under ground and dark; (he him­self then lying sick in the tower which wascalled Antonia;) and he commanded them,that in case Antigonus came in to him un­armed, they should not touch any body; butif armed, they should kill him. Yet did hesend to Antigonus, and desire that he wouldcome unarmed. But the queen, and thosethat joined with her in the plot against Anti­gonus, persuaded the messenger to tell himthe direct contrary: how his brother hadheard, that he had made himself a fine suitof armour for war, and desired him to cometo him in that armour; that he might seehow fine it was. So Antigonus, suspectingno treachery, but depending on the goodwill of his brother, came to Aristobulus arm­ed, as he used to be, with his entire armour;in order to shew it to him. But when he wascome at a place which was called Strato'stower, where the passage happened to beexceeding dark, the guards slew him. Thiscatastrophe of his demonstrates, that nothingis stronger than envy and calumny; and thatnothing does more certainly divide the goodwill and natural affections of men than thosepassions. But here one may take occasionto wonder at one Judas, who was of the sectof the Essenes, and who never missed thetruth in his predictions. For this man, whenhe saw Antigonus passing by the temple,cried out to his companions, and friends, whoabode with him, as his scholars, in order tolearn the art of foretelling things to come;"It would be good for me to die now; sinceAntigonus is still alive, and I see him passing.by: although I foretold he should die at the * Hence we learn, that the Essenes pretended to haverules, whereby men might foretell things to come; andthat this Judas the Essene, taught those rules to hisicholars, But whether their pretences were of an as- place called Strato's Tower, this very day:while yet the place is six hundred furlongs off,where 1 predicted he should be slain; and agreat part of the day is already past: so that II am in danger of proving a false prophet."*As he was saying this, in a melancholy tone,the news came that Antigonus was slain, ina place under ground; which was also calledStrato's Tower: or of the same name withthat Cesarea which is seated at the sea. But Aristobulus repented immediately ofthis slaughter of his brother: on which ac­count his disease increased upon him, and hewas disturbed in his mind, upon the guilt ofsuch wickedness: insomuch that his entrailswere corrupted by his intolerable pain, andhe vomited blood. At which time one of theservants that attended upon him, and wascarrying his blood away, did, by Divine Pro­vidence, as I suppose, slip down, and shedpart of his blood at the very place wherethere were spots of Antigonus's blood stillremaining. And when there was a cry madeby the spectators, as if the servant had onpurpose shed the blood in that place; Aris­tobulus heard it, and inquired what the mat­ter was? And as they did not answer him,he was the more earnest to know: it beingnatural to men to suspect that what is thusconcealed is very bad. So upon his threat­ening, and forcing them to speak, they atlength told him the truth. Hereupon he shedmany tears in that disorder of mind whicharose from his consciousness of what he haddone; and gave a deep groan, and said, "1am not therefore, 1 perceive, to be concealedfrom God, in the impious and horrid crimesI have been guilty of: but a sudden punish­ment is coming upon me, for shedding theblood of my relations. And now, 0 thoumost impudent body of mine, how long wiltthou retain a soul, that ought to die, in orderto appease the ghosts of my brother, andmother? Why dost thou not give it all up atonce? And why do I deliver up my blooddrop by drop, to those whom I have so wick­edly murdered?" In uttering these lastwords he died: having reigned one year.He was called a lover of the Grecians; and trological or magical nature; which yet in such religiousJews, who were utterly forbidden such arts, is no wayprobable: or to any Bath Col. spoken of by the laterRabbins, or otherwise, I cannot tell. See of the War, U. 8.