OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401 the times was indulged with a pleasant vision of the soul and body of Charles Mar-tel, burning, to ail eternity, in the abyss of hell.(l) The loss of an army, or a province, in the western world, was less painful to thecourt of Damascus, than the rise and progress of a domestic competitor. Exceptamong the Syrians, the caliphs of the house of Ommiyah had never been the ob­jects of the public favour. The life of Mahomet recorded their perseverance in ido­latry and rebellion; their conversion had been reluctant, their elevation irregularand factious, and their throne was cemented with the most holy and noble bloodof Arabia. The best of their race, the pious Omar, was dissatisfied with his owntitle: their personal virtues were insufficient to justify a departure from the orderof succession; and the eyes and wishes of the faithful were turned towards the lineof Hashem and the kindred of the apostle of God. Of these the Fatimites wereeither rash or pusillanimous; but the descendants of Abbas cherished, with courageand discretion, the hopes of their rising fortunes. From an obscure residence inSyria, they secretly despatched their agents and missionaries, who preached in theeastern provinces their hereditary indefeasible right; and Mohammed, the son ofAli, the son of Abdallah, the son of Abbas, the uncle of the prophet, gave audienceto the deputies of Chorasan, and accepted their free gift of four hundred thousandpieces of gold. After the death of Mohammed, the oath of allegiance was adminis­tered in the name of his son Ibrahim to a numerous band of votaries, who expectedonly a signal and a leader; and the governor of Chorasan continued to deplore hisfruitless admonitions and the deadly slumber of the caliphs of Damascus, till hehimself, with all his adherents, was driven from the city and palace of Meru, by therebellious arms of Abu Moslem. (2) That maker of kings, the author, as he isnamed, of the call of the Abbasides, was at length rewarded for his presumptionof merit with the usual gratitude of courts. A mean, perhaps a foreign, extractioncould not repress the aspiring energy of Abu Moslem. Jealous of his wives, liberalof his wealth, prodigal of his own blood and of that of others, he could boast withpleasure, and possibly with truth, that he had destroyed six hundred thousand ofhis enemies; and such was the intrepid gravity of his mind and countenance, thathe was never seen to smile except on a day of battle. In the visible separation ofparties the green was consecrated to the Fatimites; the Ommiades were di 'in- fuished by the white; and the black, as the most adverse, was naturally adoA ?dy the Abbassides. Their turbans and garments were stained with that gloomycolous: two black standards, on pike-staves nine cubits long, were borne aloft inthe van of Abu Moslem; and their allegorical names of the night and the sha­dow, obscurely represented the indissoluble union and perpetual succession of theline of Hashem. From the Indus to the Euphrates, the east was convulsed bythe quarrel of the white and the black factions; the Abbassides were most fre­quently victorious; but their public success was clouded by the personal misfortuneof their chief. The court of Damascus, awakening from a long slumber, resolvedto prevent the pilgrimage of Mecca, which Ibrahim had undertaken with a splen­did retinue, to recommend himself at once to the favour of the prophet and of thepeople. A detachment of cavalry intercepted his march and arrested his person;and the unhappy Ibrahim, snatched away from the promise of untasted royalty,expired in iron fetters in the dungeons of Haran. His two younger brothers,Saffah and Almansor, eluded the search of the tyrant, and lay concealed at Cufa,till the zeal of the people and the approach of his eastern friends allowed them toexpose their persons to the impatient public. On Friday, in the dress of a caliph,in the colours of the sect, Saffah proceeded with religious and military pomp tothe mosch: ascending the pulpit, he prayed and preached as the lawful successorof Mahomet; and, after his departure, his kinsmen bound a willing people by anoath of fidelity. But it was on the banks of the Zab, and not in the mosch of Cufa,that this important controversy was determined. Every advantage appeared tobe on the side of the white faction: the authority of established government; anarmy of a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers against a sixth part of that num­ber; and the presence and merit of the caliph Mervan, the fourteenth and last of (1) This pastoral letter, addressed to Lewis the Germanic, the grandson of Charlemacne. tad mmt probablycomposed by the pen of the artful Hincmar, is datedjin the year 858, and signed by the bishops of the provincesor Hheinn and Rouen. (Baronim, Anna!. Ee«let. A. D. 741. Fleory, Hilt. Eccles. torn. X. p. 314—US.) Te«Baronius himself, and the French critici, reject with eontempt this episcopal fiction. (S) The steed and the saddle, which had carried any of his wives, were instantly killed or burned, lest theyshould be afterwards mounted by a mala. Twelve hundred mules or camels were required for his kitchen fui-rriture; and the daily consumption amounted to three thousand cbkfst a hundred sheep, berides oxen, poultry,fct. -iAbnlpharaeim, Hi"' Dyrnw, p< H»,J ' vo».nr. si