OCR Output 422 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. c* together, and to appoint some place near * Berytus, whichis a city belonging to the Romans, and to take the presi-"dents of Syria, and Archelaus king of Cappadocia, and as"many more as he thought to be illustrious, tor their friend-"ship to him, and the dignities they were in, and determine"what should be done by their approbation." These werethe directions that Caesar gave him. Accordingly Herod,when the letter was brought to him, was immediately very flad of Caesar's reconciliation to him, and very glad also thate had a complete authority given him over his sons. Andit strangely came about, that whereas before, in his adversity,though he had indeed showed himself severe, yet had he notbeen very rash, nor hasty in procuring the destruction of hissons, he now, in his prosperity, took advantage of this changefor the better, and the freedom he now had, to exercise hishatred against them, after an unheard of manner; he thereforesent and called as many as he thought fit to this assembly, ex­cepting Archelaus, for as for him, he either hated him, so thathe would not invite him, or he thought he would be an obsta­cle to his designs. 2. When the presidents, and the rest that belonged to theci nes, were come to Berytus, he kept his sons in a certain vil­lage belonging to Sidon, called Platana, but near to this city,that if they were called he might produce them, for he did notthink fit to bring them before the assembly: and when there wereone hundred and fifty assessors present, Herod came by himselfalone, and accused his sons, and that in such a way as if it werenot a melancholy accusation, and not made but out of necessity,and upon the misfortunes he was under: indeed in such a way,as was very indecent for a father to accuse his sons, for he wasvery vehement and disordered, when he came to the demonstra­tion of the crime they were accused of, and gave the greatestsigns of passion and barbarity: nor would he suffer the assessorsto consider of the weight of the evidence, but asserted them tobe true by his own authority, after a manner most indecent in afather against his sons, and read himself what they themselveshad written, wherein there was no confession of any plots or con­trivances against him. But only how they had contrived to flyaway, and containing withal certain reproaches against him, onaccount of the ill-will he bore them; and when he came to those * What Josephus relates Augustus to have here said, that Berytus was a citybelonging to the Romans, is confirmed by Spanheim's notes here: *' It was," sayshe, "a colony placed there by Augustus. Whence Ulpian. De tens. teL L- T."X\r. The colony of Berytus was rendered famous /», the benefits of Caesar' And"thence it is that, among the coins of Augustus, we meet with some having this!' inscription: The hafjty colony if Augustus at Berytus."