OCR Output TAPruAn. TAPROBANE. 1091 twhiU, and public baths. (Proeop. de Aedif.. I.) Nearer Alexandreia was a smaller town ofkvuM.(TanfftiptiT\ij<rloy 'AAcfovSoeuu, Steph. /. r.; i hlipa, Strab. xvii. p. 800.) [ W. B. D.]TAFfTAH or BETH-TAPPUAH, a city inJoiiiH, upon the mountains of Judali, not farKD Hebruo, which Robinson identifies with the(-fill village of Teffuh, lying in the midst of olive-ra and vineyards. (JaaA. xt. 53; Robinson,ii ha. toI. ii. p. 71, 2nd ed.) There was•tier Tappuah in the plain of Judah (Joth. xv.); bat which of these was the place conquered by'inn. cannot be determined. (Josh. xii. 17.)TAFRffBASE (v Tawpufttvr;, Strab. i. 63, xv.ll.ie.; Steph. B. «. v.; PtoL vii. 4; Plin. vi. 22.!4; Mela, iii. 77; Ov. ear Pont. i. 5. 80), a very:r kiaai, now Ceylon. It is situated to the SE.It peninsula of i/motoion, and is all but joinedU continent by a reef now called Adam) Bridge, lr ao island called Ramitur or Ramisceram: tlx Kipv of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 11) and theula Silis of Pliny (vi. 22. a. 24). (Comp.Kaa, At. Ret. v. p. 39; Ritter, Erdt. vi. p. 63.)fcprobane was not known to the writers of clas-i uuiquity before tbe time of Alexander the Great,liw various narratives which have reached thesubsequent to his invasion of the Panjab,icfc often correct as to its natural productions, areniirlj erroneous as to its position, its size, and its*- Thus Onesicritus estimates it at 5000 stadia,izh whether this number implies length, breadth,aomference, is not stated by Strabo (xv. p. 690).w but, he is nearly correct, Rennell consideringU> i* about 660 miles. (See Map, and Memoirsou.) lie adda that it was twenty days' sail the coniinent — the ships being badly con-and unfit for sailing; a view remarkablyr.iwd by Pliny, who notices the change in theb of the voyage owing to the improved kind of*>. and the shallow character of the intervening: (vi. 22. s. 24). Eratosthenes reduces the dis-i to a navigation of seven days — the same timeliny states (i. c); bnt this is far too great■k. xv. p. 691), as it is really little more thanaiei from its nearest shores to the mainland ofl*i<m. (Vincent, Toy. of Xearckut, i. p. 495;.in Ind. Attn. Regitt. 1799.) EratosthenesL [core erroneous in the position he assigns to•land, for he extends it 8000 stadia in the di­al of Africa, (Strab. /. c), while the author of'rrifjut If. Erythr. makes it reach almost toaast of Azanim (c 61, ed. Mtiller) — an errori has probably led to that of Edrisi, who hasuiaiwl C. Comorin with Madagascar, and in hisLa» even placed this island to tbe E. of Ceylon.* vippoara that Ceylon is not less than Britain 1.30), and Ptolemy gives it a length of moreI laxj miles, and a breadth of more than 700l. § 9, Tin. 28. § 3). (Compare with this therimt of Marco Polo, which is, as to circum-*. identical with Ptolemy, Le.; and Caesarwk. ap. Uackluyt't Voy. ii. pp. 225—227.)» l.utory of ancient Ceylon falls naturally into Leads: 1. What may be gathered from thei' who followed the march of Alexander. 2. "e may learn from the Roman writers. 3. ciay be obtained from the Byzantines. :ij times preceding the invasion of India by■iier we hare no distinct notice in classical7. vet it may be inferred from Pliny thntrrport of ita exiaten.ee had reached the West, where he states that it had long been the opinionthat Taprobane was another world, and bore thename of Antichthonns, bnt that it was determined tobe an island about the aera of Alexander (vi. 22. s.24): while it is not impossible that Herodotus mayhave heard some tradition on the subject, since hestates that cinnamon is produced in those countriesin which Dionysus was brought up (iii. Ill); fromwhich passage, however, it cannot be determinedwhether the true cinnamon, that is the bark of theshrub, is intended, or some other kind of cassia. To the first class of writers belong Onesicritus,the companion of Alexander, Megasthenes and Dai-machus, who were sent as ambassadors by Seleucusto Sandrocottus (Chandragupta') and his son Ami-trochates (Amitraghdta), from whose memorialsalmost all that is preserved in Strabo and in theearlier portion of the notice in Pliny has beentaken. There is no reason to suppose that eitherOnesicritus or Megasthenes themselves visited thisisland; they probably collected, while in India, thenarratives they subsequently compiled. The second class of writers are of the periodwhen the vast commerce of Alexandria had ex­tended to India subsequent to the death of Strabo,A. D. 24. (Groskurd, Proleg. in Strab. i. p. 16.)Previous to this period, some few ships may havereached India from Egypt; but, from Strabo's ownstatement, they appear to have been those only ofprivate individuals (I. c). Pliny, the writer of thePeriplus of tbe Erythraean Sea, Marcian of Hera-clem, Mela, and Ptolemy, belong to this class, and,in the fulness of their narratives, show clearly howmuch additional knowledge had been acquired dur­ing the extension of the power of the early empe­rors of Rome. Lastly, under the head of Byzantine writers, wehave the remarkable account of the island in CoamasIndicopleustes, the latest which belongs to the pe­riod of ancient or classical history. The most important notice is that of Pliny (/. c),who Btates that ambassadors from the island werereceived at Rome by the emperor Claudius, throughthe instrumentality of the freedman of a certainAnnius Plocamus, who, after having been driven outof his course upon the island, remained there sixmonths, and became intimate with the people andtheir rulers. He states that Plocamus landed at aport he calls Hippuros, which may be identifiedwith the modern Kudremalai, which means thesame in Sanscrit; and that the name of the kingwas Rucbia, evidently tbe Indian Rajah: he addsthat the island contained 500 towns, the chief ofwhich was called Palaesimundum, and a vast lakeMegisba, from which flowed two rivers, one calledCydara (Ktmdara or Kadambo in the Annals, nowArtpo). It is not possible accurately to determinewhat modem place is to be identified with Mepi&ba,but the Mahawanso speaks of enormous works ofthis nature attributed to Vasabha and other earlykings. (Mah. pp. 65, 210, 221, 215.) Plinyadds some astronomical facts, which are notequally coincident with the truth; and remarks onthe richness of the island in precious stones andmetals, and on the fineness of the climate, whichextended the life of man beyond its usual limits. We may mention also, that Diodoras tells aremarkable story, which has been generally held torefer to Ceylon, though this is not capable of proof.According to him Iambulus, the son of a merchant,on his wav to the spice countries, was taken prisoner 4a 2