OCR Output Air. 1116.] 187 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. however, in no long time they would sorelyrepent of what they did, which repentanceyet could not undo what was thus done forfuturity; that they would be sufficiently re­buked for their contempt, and the ungratefulconduct they had used towards Him, andtowards the prophetic office: "So I commandthee," said the Deity, "to ordain them sucha one as I shall name beforehand to be theirking, when thou hast first described whatmischiefs regal government will bring uponthem, and openly testified before them untowhat a great change of affairs they arehasting."* When Samuel had heard this, he calledthe Jews early in the morning, and confessedto them that he was to ordain them a king;but he said, that he was first to describe tothem what would follow, what treatment theywould receive from their kings, and with howmany mischiefs they must struggle. "Forknow ye," said he, "that in the first place,they will take your sons away from you; andthey will command some of them to be dri­vers of their chariots, and some to be theirhorsemen, and the guards of their body; andothers of them to be runners before them, andcaptains of thousands, and captains of hun­dreds; they will also make them their arti­ficers, makers of armour, and of chariots, andof instruments; they will make them theirhusbandmen also, and the guardians df theirown fields, and the diggers of their own vine­yards. Nor will there be any thing whichthey will not do at their commands, as if theywere slaves bought with money. They willalso appoint your daughters to be confec­tioners, and cooks, and bakers; and thesewill be obliged to do all sorts of work whichwomen slaves that are in fear of stripes andtorments submit to. They will, besides this,take away your possessions, and bestow themupon their eunuchs, and the guards of theirbodies, and will give the herds of your cattleto their own servants; and, in brief, you andall that is yours will be servants to your king,and will become no way superior to his slaves.Now when you suffer thus, you will be re­minded of what I now say; and when you re­pent of what you have done, you will beseechGod to have mercy upon you, and to grant you a quick deliverance from your kings; but hewill not accept your prayers, but will neglectyou, and permit you to suffer the punishmentyour evil conduct has deserved." But the multitude was still deaf to thesepredictions of what would befall them; andtoo peevish to suffer a determination whichthey had injudiciously made, to be taken outof their mind; for they could not be turnedfrom their purpose, nor did they regard thewords of Samuel, but peremptorily insistedon their resolution, and desired him to ordairtthem a king immediately, and not to troublehimself with fears of what would come here­after; for that it was necessary that theyshould have with them one to fight their bat­tles, and to avenge them of their enemies;and that it was no way absurd, when theirneighbours were under regal government,that they should have the same form of go­vernment also. So when Samuel saw thatwhat he had said had not diverted themfrom their purpose, but that they continuedresolute, he said, "Go you every one homefor the present, and I will send for you assoon as I shall have learned from God who itis that he will give you for your king."t CHAP. IV. OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A KING OVER THE ISRAELITES,BY THE COMMAND OF GOD. THERE was one of the tribe of Benjamin,a man of a good family, and of a vir­tuous disposition; his name was Kish. Hehad a son, a young man of a comely counte­nance, and of a tall stature, but his under­standing and his mind were preferable towhat was visible in him; they called him Saul.Now this Kish had some fine she asses thathad wandered out of the pasture whereinthey fed, so he sent out his son, and one ser­vant with him, to search for the beasts. Butwhen he had gone over his own tribe in searchafter the asses, he went to other tribes, andwhen he found them not there neither, he de­termined to return home, lest he should oc­casion any concern to his father about him­self. But his servant told him, as they were >near the city of Ramah, that there was a trueprophet in that city, and advised him to go to * Sam. viii. 9.voL. I.—NOS. 15 & 16. t 1 Sam. viii. 22. Rr