OCR Output paxium. PANNONIA. 541 PtXIUM (nbtsr, Hierod. p. 632; Const Porph.k 1'm.ii. 1. p. 47; Suidas, s. r.), a town on thenot Thro, dot Heracleia; perhaps the modernimsim. [T. H. D.] PA'XNOSA(nanwo), a town in the interior offate. & at CnoafQS, retaining the name of Panon.(FiaLail7.§ 10.) ■ i.V (IlsavoWa, Ptol. ii. 1. § 12; orfens, Zoom. ii. 43), one of the most importantswart* the Boman empire, on the south and«*v tbf Danube, which forms its boundary ina* nth and cast; in the south it bordered onfetna *»d Mcesia, while in the west it was sepa-ka: rrvsi Koricum by Mount Cetius, and fromh*< •* tie Julian Alps. The country extendedaW lie Danube from V'nidobona (Vienna) tobr^ara, sod sawrdingly comprised the easternantfiautrw, Corinth ia, Carhiola, the part ofbHwven the Danube and Sow, jS&zvonta,a MM of Lroai&sand Bosnia. After its subju-paw. St the Bomans, it was divided into Pannoniaifr-u (if &m danvris) and Pannonia Inferior*t,~u flsrwiaX by a straight line running frombtaa □ the north to Servitium in the south, sotat i? part west of this line constituted Upperfaton, ud that on the east Lower Pannonia.pi i 15. $ 16.) In consequence of this divisionitias? eoontnr is sometimes called by the pluralP> /'asfloaiae (Uajvovuu, Ptol. ii. 16. § 1; Phn. zxxviL 11. a, 2). In the fourthJaw*, tie emperor Galenas separated the districtif**r PiDaDtnM. between the Jioob, Danube, andlaw, aaa constituted it as a separate provincem le tame of Valeria, in honour of his wife whoV 0a same name. (Aar. Vict, de Caes. 40;Mm. xvi. 10, xxviii. 3.) But as Lower■i aremed by this measure to be too muchthe Great added to it a part ofriz^ the districts about the Upper,-and Upper Pannonia was henceforthPrima, and Lower Pannonia, Pan-(Amm. Marc xv. 3, xvii. 12.)tins provinces belonged to the diocese ofIt ahooJd be observed, however, thatv*-iiDda is sometimes also called Inter- rW, nr Bipeasis. (Sext. Ruf. Brtv. 11;1^) The three provinces into which Pan-tiia divided were governed by three diflc-*. » pneaes residing: at Sabaria, a consular■fc Srnuum, and a praefect who had his seatp«* The part bordering upon Germany, which*■* m oead of protection, had always thefarrzaoas, though all Pannonia in generaltied by numerous armies, which were gradu-•***d to seven legions. Besides these troopsWaned at Vindotxma was the strongest'•anc fleets maintained on the Danube. (xlix. 36) mentions an unfortunate< the name of Pannonia from "pannus,"^* awe of doth," referring to a peculiar article4 tat inhabitants, though he also states at»; i« that the natives called themselves Pan-i *Watt it follows that the name can have'- 4j with the Latin pannus. As to the- name with that of Paeonians we shall to apeak presently.'^brtieal o/nfiguration, Pannonia forms a■o n kaml only in the west and southof any' considerable height, and*! *;t by hills of a moderate size, whichw* s—TBatanfa of the Alpine cliaiua in the west and south, and are for this reason called byTacitus (Hist. ii. 28) and Tibullus (iv. I. 109) thePannonian Alps. The separate parts of these ramifi­cations of the Alps are mentioned under the namesof Mount Cakvancias, Cetius, At.hii Mqxtm,Claudius, and Alma or Almus. The mountainson the western and southern frontiers contain thesources of some important rivers, such as the Dka-vus and Savus, which flow almost parallel andempty themselves into the Danube. Only onenorthern tributary of the Dravus is mentioned, viz.,the Muiitcs; while the Savus receives from thesouth the Nauportus, Carcorus, Colapis, Ok-MKUSf Urpanus, Valdasus, and Drinus. Theonly other important river in the north-west is theAkkabo. The northern part of Pannonia containeda great lake called the Peiso or Peiso (the Plat-tensee), besides which we may notice some smallerlakes, the Ulcaei Lacus, between the Save and theDrave, near their mouth. The climate and fertilityof Pannonia are described by the ancients in a mannerwhich little corresponds with what is now known ofthose countries. It is said to have been a rough,cold, rugged, and not very productive country (Strut >.vii. p. 317; Dion Cass. xlix. 37; Herodian, i. 6),though later writers acknowledge the fertility of theplains. (Solin. 21; com p. with Veil. Pat. ii. 110.)Both statements, however, may be reconciled, if werecollect how much the emperors Probus and Ga-lerius did to promote the productiveness cf thecountry by rooting out the large forests and render­ing the districts occupied by them fit for agriculture.(Plin. iii. 28; Appian, Mgr. 22; Hygin. de Limit.Const, p. 206; Aurel. a"e Caes. 40.) As the forestsin those times were probably much more extensivethan at present, timber was one of the principalarticles of export from Pannonia, and great quan­tities of it were imported into Italy. (Solin. 22.)Agriculture was not carried on to any great extent,and was for the most part confined to the rearing ofbailey and oats, from which the Pannonians breweda kind of beer, called Sabaia (Dion Cass. xlix. 36;Amm. Marc. xxvi. 8), and which formed the chiefarticles of food for the natives. Olives and vines donot appear, at least in early times, to have grown at allin Pannonia, until the emperor Probus introduced thecultivation of the vine in the neighbourhood of Sir-mium. (Vopisc. Prob. 1, 18 ; Eutrop. ix. 17;Aurel. Vict, de Caes. 37.) Among the valuableproductions of the vegetable kingdom, the fragrantsaliuncn is mentioned (Plin. xxi. 20), and amongthe animals dogs excellent for the chase are spokenof by Kemesianus (Cynexj. 126), the cattac by Mar­tial (xiii. 69), and the cliarax or black-cock byAthenaeus (ix. p. 398). The rivers must have pro­vided tlie inhabitants with abundance of fish. Theancients do not speak of any metals found in Pannonia,either because the mines were not worked, or be­cause the metals imported from Pannonia werevaguely said to come from Noricum, where miningwas carried on to a great extent. The inhabitants of Pannonia (Pannonii, norroVtoi,Tldwovts, or Tlaiovfs) were a very numerous race,which, in the war against the Romans, could send100,000 armed men into the field. (Appian, JUyr.2:2.) Appian (/. c. 14) states that the Romansregarded thein as belonging to lllyricum. Somehave inferred from this that the great body of thepeople were Illyrians; and some tribes, such as thePyrustae, Mazani, and Daesitiatae, are actually de­scribed by some as Illyrian and by others as Pan­