OCR Output 4tO WARS OF THE JEWS. Uook IL was then common to see cities filled with dead bodies, still lyingunburied, and those of old men, mixed with infants, all dead,and scattered about together; women also lay amongst them,without any covering for their nakedness; you might then seethe whole province full of inexpressible calamities, while thedread of still more barbarous practices which were threatened,were every where greater than what had been already per­petrated. 3. And thus far the conflict had been between Jews andforeigners, but when they made excursions to Scythopolis, theyfound Jews that acted as enemies; for as they stood in battlearray with those of Scythopqlis, and preferred their own safetybefore their relation to us, theyfought against their own country­men ; nay, their alacrity was so very great, that those of Scytho-polis suspected them. These were afraid, therefore, lest theyshould make an assault upon the city in the night time, and, totheir great misfortune, should thereby make an apology forthemselves to their own people for their revolt from them. Sothey commanded them, that in case they would confirm theiragreement and demonstrate their fidelity to them, who were ofa different nation, they should go out of the city, with their fa­milies to a neighbouring grove: and when they had done asthey were commanded, without suspecting any thing, the peopleof Scythopolis lay still for the interval of two days, to temptthem to be secure; but on the third night they watched theiropportunity, and cut all their throats, some as they lay unguard­ed, and some as they lay asleep. The number that was slain was'above thirteen thousand, and then they plundered them of allthat they had. 4. It will deserve our relation what befel Simon; he wasthe son of one Saul, a man of reputation among the Jews. Thisman was distinguished from the rest by the strength of his body,and the boldness of his conduct, although he abused them bothto the mischieving of his countrymen; for he came every dayand slew a great many of the Jews of Scythopolis, and he fre­quently put them to flight, and became himself alone the causeof his army's conquering. But a-just punishment overtook him'for the murders he had committed upon those of the same na­tion with him; for when the people of Scythopolis threw theirdarts at them in the grove, he drew his sword, but did not at­tack any of the enemy; for he saw that he could do nothingagainst such a multitude; but he cried out after a very movingmanner, and, " O, you people of Scythopolis, 1 deservedly suffer" for what 1 have done with relation to you, when I gave you" such security of my fidelity to you, by slaying so many of -« those