OCR Output 14 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE iews. Book XVIL his anger against him, and wrote back to him, and bid him notdelay his journey, lest any harm should befal himself in his ab­sence. At the same time also he made some little complaintabout his mother, but promised that he would lay those com­plaints aside when he should return. He withal expressed hisentire affection for him, as fearing lest he should have some sus­picion of him, and defer his journey to him ; and lest, while helived at Rome, he should lay plots for the kingdom, and, more­over, do somewhat against himself. This letter Antipater metwith in Cilicia ; but had received an account of Pherofas's deathbefore at Tarentum. This last news affected him deeply ; notout of any affection for Pheroras, but because he was dead with­out having murdered his father, which he had promised him todo. And when he was at Celenderis in Cilicia, he began to de­liberate with himself about his sailing home, as being much grie­ved with the ejection of his mother. Now, some of his friendsadvised him that he should tarry a while somewhere, in expec­tation of farther information. But others advised him to sailhome without delay ; for that if he were once come thither, hewould soon put an end to all accusations, and that nothing af­forded any weight to his accusers at present but his absence. Hewas persuaded by these last, and sailed on, and landed at the ha­ven called Sebastus, which Herod had built at vast expences inhonour of Caesar, and called Sebastus. And now was Antipaterevidently in a miserable condition, whjle no body came to himnor saluted him, as they did at his going away, with good wishesor joyful acclamations ; nor was there now any thing to hinderthem from entertaining him, on the contrary, with bitter curses,while they supposed he was come to receive his punishment forthe murder of his brethren. 2. Now, Quintilius Varus was at this time at Jerusalem, be­ing sent to succeed Saturninus as president of Syria, and wascome as an assessor to Herod, who had desired his advice in hispresent affairs ; and as they were sitting together, Antipatercame upon them, without knowing any thing of the matter ; sohe came into the palace clothed in purple. The porters indeedreceived him in, but excluded his friends. And now he was ingreat disorder, and presently understood the condition he was in,while upon his going to salute his father, he was repulsed byhim, who called him a murderer of his brethren, and a plotterof destruction against himself, and told him that Varus shouldbe his auditor and his judge the very next day; so he found, thatwhat misfortune he now heard of was already upon him, withthe greatness of which he went away in confusion; upon whichhis mother and. his wife met him, (which wife was the daugh­ter of Antigonus, who was king of the Jews before Herod), from whom