OCR Output AH. 1064.] 24? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. perform the injunction I laid upon thee,which was, to reconcile my father to me.And I really beg it of thee now thou art here,to pacify my father as to me; since I esteemmy coming hither, to be more grievous thanmy banishment, while my father's wrathagainst me continues." Joab was herebypersuaded, and pitied the distress that Ab­salom was in, and became an intercessorwith the king for him. And when he haddiscoursed with his father, he soon broughthim to that amicable disposition towards Ab­salom, that he presently sent for him to cometo him. And when he had cast himself downupon the ground, and begged for the forgive­ness of his offences, the king raised him up,and promised to forget what he had formerlydone.* CHAP. IX. OF THE INSURRECTION OF ABSALOM AGAINST DAVID, ANDTHE DEATH OF AHITHOFHEL. NOW Absalom upon this success with theking, procured to himself many horsesand chariots, and that in a little time.? Hehad also fifty armour-bearers that were abouthim, and he came early every day to theking's palace, and spake what was agreeableto such as came for justice, and lost theircauses; as if that happened for want of goodcounsellors about the king, or perhaps be­cause the judges mistook in that unjust sen­tence they gave. Whereby he gained the good will of all the populace. He told them,that had he but such authority committed tohim, he would distribute justice to them in amost equitable manner. When he had madehimself so popular among the multitude, hethought he had already the good will of thepeople secured to him.J But when four||years had passed since his father's reconcili­ation, he came to him,§ and besought him togive him leave to go to Hebron, and pay asacrifice to God, because he vowed it to himwhen he fled out of the country. So whenDavid had granted his request, he wentthither; and great multitudes came runningtogether to him; for he had sent to a greatnumber so to do. Among them came Ahithophel, the Gilonite,a counsellor of David's, and two hundred menof Jerusalem, who knew not his intentions;but were sent for as to a sacrifice. So he wasappointed king by all of them, which he ob­tained by this stratagem. As soon as thisnews was brought to David, and he was in­formed of what he did not expect from hisson; he was affrighted at this impious andbold undertaking; and wondered that he wasso far from remembering how his offence hadlately been forgiven him, that he undertookmuch worse and more wicked enterprises:first to deprive him of that kingdom whichwas given him of God; and secondly to takeaway his own father's life. He therefore re­solved to fly to the parts beyond Jordan. Sohe called his most intimate friends together, * 2 Sam. xiv. 33. t It is an observation of Plato, that when any one in­tends to make himself a tyrant in a popular state, he nosooner enters on the government, but *po<tyska « xcuct<f*a%erai Taulaj, uav irspirvyxam, he smiles upon, andkindly salutes, all sorts of people, wherever he meetsthem; avowing that he hates tyranny, promising greatthings both in private and public, xai tfao*iv iXsof re xcuwaTpwos eivco tfpotftfoisii-ai, and making as if he would bemild, and gentle, and fatherly to all; even as Tacitus re­lates of Otho, that protendens manum adorare vulgvm,jacere oscula, et omnia serviliter pro dominatione. Thathe used to kiss, and shake hands with any one, court andadore the mob, and do every little servile thing, to getpossession of the government. Plato de Repvb. lib. 8.and Tacit. Hist. lib. 1. B. J It is an observation of Aristotle, in his Politics, (lib.6. c. 4.) that all changes and revolutions in governmentare made by one of these two ways, ere |aev 8m 8iag ore 8s«i owra"is, either by force and violence, or else by deceitand craft. Nor ever was there a man better formed bynature to manage matters in this latter way, than was Ab­salom, who was a person of courage and gallantry, of civility and courtesy, young, and wonderfully beautiful,descended from kings, both by his father's and mother'sside, and prodigal enough of large and magnificent pro­mises, if ever he came to be king; a character not unlikethat of Turnus in Virgil: Hunc decus egregium formae movet, atque juventaeHunc atavi reges, hunc claris dextera factis. JEneid. lib. 7. B. || This is one of the best corrections that Josephus'scopy affords us of a text that, in our ordinary copies, isgrossly corrupted. They say, that this rebellion of Ab­salom was forty years after what went before (of his re­conciliation to his father,) whereas the series of the his­tory shews it could not be more than four years after it;as here in Josephus; whose number is directly confirmedby that copy of the Septuagint version, whence the Ar­menian translation was made, which gives us the samesmall number of four years. Dr. Wall also notes, thatfour of the MSS. of the Vulgate have the same smallnumber. Which indeed I think ought, without dispute,to be allowed the right reading. § About an. 1064.