OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 395 oeived [from Herod,] he entertained them all in the public inns,and at public tables, nnd with perpetual feasts, this solemnityhaving in the day-time the diversions of the fights, and in thenight-time such merry meetings as cost vast sums of money,and publicly demonstrated the generosity of his soul, fof in ailhis undertakings he was ambitious to exhibit what exceededwhatsoever had been done before of the same kind. And it isrelated that Caesar and Agrippa often said, That " the dominions"of Herod were too little for the greatness of his soul, for thai"he deserved to have both all the kingdom of Syria, and that"of Egypt also." 2. After this solemnity and these festivals were over, Heroderected another city in the plain called Capharsaba, where hechose out a fit place, both for plenty of water, and goodness ofsoil, and proper for the production of what was there planted,where a river encompassed the city itself, and a grove of thebest trees for magnitude was round nbflut it: this he named An-tipatris, from his father Antipater. He also built upon anotherspot of ground above Jericho, of the same name with his mo­ther, a place of great security, and very pleasant for habitation,and called it Cyprus. He also dedicated the finest monumentsto his brother Phasaelus, on account of the great natural affec­tion there had been between them, by erecting a tower in thecity itself, not less than the tower of Pharos, which he namedPhasaelus, which was at once a part of the strong defences of thecity and a memorial for him that was deceased, because it borehis name. He also built a city of the same name in the valleyof Jericho, as you go from it northward, whereby he renderedthe neighbouring country more fruitful, by the cultivation itsinhabitants introduced; and this also he called Phasaelus. 3. But as for his other benefits, it is impossible to reckon themup, those which he bestowed on cities, both in Syria and inGreece, and in all the places he came to in his voyages; for heseems to have conferred, and that after a most plentiful manner,what would minister to many necessities, and the building ofpublic works, and gave them the money that was necessary tosuch works as wanted it, to support them upon the failure oftheir other revenues: but, what was the greatest and most il­lustrious of all his works, he erected Apollo's temple at Rhodes,at his own expenses, and gave them a great number of talents ofsilver for the repair of their fleet. He also built the greatestpart of the public edifices for the inhabitants of * Nicopolis, * Dr. Hudson here gives us the words of Suetonius concerning this Nieopolis,when Agustus rebuilt it: "And that the memory of the victory at Actium might"be celebrated the more afterward, he built NicopolUat Actium, and appointed pub-"lie shows to be ilmrc exhibited every tifth year, in August." Sect. 18. VOL. iI. 3D 27