OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 399 particular, they might have laid a private plot against him足self, but would hardly have made war against all the Egyp足tians ; I mean this on the account of the great kindred they,who were so numerous, must have had among them. Nay,still, if they had resolved to fight with the men, they wouldnot have had impudence enough to fight with their gods; norwould they have ordained laws quite contrary to those of theirown country, and to those in which they had been bred upthemselves. Yet are we beholden to Manetho, that ho doesnot lay the principal charge of this horrid transgression uponthose that came from Jerusalem, but says that the Egyptiansthemselves were the most guilty, and that they were theirpriests that contrived these things, and made the multitudetake their oaths for doing so. But still, how absurd is it tosuppose that none of these people's own relations or friendsshould be prevailed with to revolt, nor to undergo the hazardsof war with them ? while these polluted people were forced tosend to Jerusalem, and bring their auxiliaries from thence.What friendship, I pray, or what relation was there formerlybetween them that required this assistance ? On the contrary,these people were enemies, and greatly differed from them intheir customs. He says, indeed, that they complied imme足diately, upon their promising them that they should conquerEgypt; as if they did not themselves very well know thatcountry out of which they had been driven by force. Now,had these men been in want, or lived miserably, perhaps theymight have undertaken so hazardous an enterprise; but asthey dwelt in a happy city, and had a large country, and onebetter than Egypt itself, how came it about that for the sakeof those that had of old been their enemies, and of those thatwere maimed in their bodies, and of those whom none of theirown relations would endure, they should run such hazards inassisting them ? For they could not foresee that the kingwould run away from them; on the contrary, he saith himself,that " Amenophis's son had three hundred thousand men withhim, and met them at Pelusium." Now, to be sure, those thatcame could not be ignorant of this; but for the king's re足pentance and flight, how could they possibly guess at it ? He