OCR Output 178 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. her mother-in-law, went out to glean; thatthey might get a stock of corn for theirfood. Now it happened that she came intoBooz's field; and after some time Boozcame thither, and when he saw the damsel,he enquired of his servant that was set overthe reapers concerning the girl. The ser­vant had a little before enquired about allher circumstances, and told them to hismaster. Booz then kindly embraced her;both on account of her affection to her moth­er-in-law, and her remembrance of that sonof her's, to whom she had been married,and wished that she might experience aprosperous condition. So he desired hernot to glean, but to reap what she was able;and gave her leave to carry it home. Healso gave it in charge to that servant whowas over the reapers, not to hinder herwhen she took it away, and bade him giveher her dinner and make her drink, whenhe did the like to the reapers. Now whatcorn Ruth received of him, she kept for hermother-in-law, and carried it to her in theevening. And Naomi had kept for her apart of such food as her neighbours hadplentifully bestowed upon her. Ruth alsotold her mother-in-law what Booz had said;and when the other had informed her thathe was near of kin to them, and perhapswas so pious a man as to make some pro­vision for them, she went out again on thedays following to gather the gleanings, withBooz's maid-servant. It was not many days before Booz, afterthe barley was winnowed, slept in his thresh­ing floor. When Naomi was informed ofthis circumstance, she contrived that Ruthshould lie down by him, for she thought thatit might be for their advantage that heshould discourse with the girl. Accordinglyshe sent the damsel to sleep at his feet, whowent as she bade her; for she did not thinkit consistent with her duty to contradict anycommand of her mother-in-law. And at first * Roth iii. 13. t It is not easy to give an account of the origin of thiscustom, but the reason of it is plain; it being a naturalsignification that he resigned his interest in the land, bygiving him his shoe, wherewith he used to walk in it, thathe might enter into and take possession of it himself.The Targum instead of the shoe hath right hand glove;it being then the custom, perhaps, to give that in room ofthe shoe. "X she lay concealed from Booz, as he was fastasleep; but when he awaked about midnight,and perceived a woman lying by him, heasked who she was? and when she had toldhim her name, and desired that he, whomshe owned for her lord, would excuse her,he said no more; but in the morning, beforethe servants began to set about their work,he waked her, and bid her take as muchbarley as she could carry, and go to hermother-in-law, before any body should seethat she had lain down by him; because itwas but prudent to avoid any reproach thatmight arise on that account, especially whenthere had been nothing done that was ill;but, as to the main point she aimed at, thematter should rest here; "He that is nearerof kin than 1 am shall be asked whether hewish to take thee to wife? if he says he does,thou shalt follow him; but if he refuse, Iwill marry thee, according to the law."* When she had informed the mother-in-lawof this, they were very glad of it; out of thehope they had that Booz would make pro­vision for them. Now about noon Boozwent down into the city, and gathered thesenate together; and when he had sent forRuth, he called for her kinsman also. Andwhen he was come, he asked him whetherhe did not retain the inheritance of Elim-elech, and his sons? he confessed that hedid retain it, as he was permitted to do bythe laws, because he was their nearest kins­man. Then said Booz, "Thou must notremember the laws in part; but do everything according to them. For the wife ofMahlon is come hither; whom thou mustmarry according to the law, in case thouwilt retain their fields." So the man yieldedup both the fields and the wife to Booz, whowas himself of kin to those that were dead;as alleging that he had a wife already, andchildren also. So Booz called the senate towitness, and bid the woman to loose hisshoe,f and spit in his face, according to the In latter times the Jews delivered a handkerchief forthe same purpose. So R. Solomon Jarchi says, we ac­quire, or buy, now, by a handkerchief or veil, instead of ashoe. The giving of a glove was, in the middle ages, aceremony of investiture in bestowing lands and dignities.In A. D. 1002, two bishops were put in possession oftheir sees, each by receiving a glove So in England,in the reign of Edward the Second, the deprivation rfgloves was a ceremony of degradation.—With regard to