OCR Output 442 FLAVIUSJOSEPHtJS [b. II another, ought not to bo required back again. No one is totouch another's goods. He that lends money must not de­mand usury for its loan. These and many more of the likesort are the rules that unite us in the bands of society onewith another. 29. It will be also worth our while to see what equity ourlegislator would have us exercise in our intercourse withstrangers ; for it will thence appear, that he made the bestprovision he possibly could, both that we should not dissolveour own constitution, nor show any envious mind towardsthose that would cultivate a friendship with us. Accordingly,our legislator admits all those that have a mind to observeour laws so to do, and this after a friendly manner, as es­teeming that a true union which not only extends to our ownstock, but to those that would live after the same mannerwith us: yet does he not allow those that come to us by ac­cident only to be admitted into communion with us. 30. However, there are other things which our legislatorordained for us beforehand, which of necessity we ought todo in common to all men; as to afford fire, and water, andfood to such as want it; to show them the roads ; nor to letany one lie unburied. He also would have us treat those thatare esteemed our enemies with moderation ; for he doth notallow us to set their country on fire, nor to permit us to cutdown those trees that bear fruit; nay, farther, he forbids usto spoil those that have been slain in war. He hath alsoprovided for such as are taken captive, that they may not beinjured, and especially that the women may not be abused.Indeed, he hath taught us gentleness and humanity so ef­fectually, that he hath not despised the care of brute beasts,by permitting no other than a regular use of them, and for­bidding any other; and if any of them come to our houses,like supplicants, we are forbidden to slay them : nor may wekill the dams, together with their young ones; but we areobliged, even in an enemy's country, to spare and not killthose creatures that labor for mankind. Thus hath our law­giver contrived to teach us an equitable conduct every way,by using us to such laws as instruct us therein ; while at the