OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL 54* Inconsider­able numberof martyrs. Example ofCyprian,bishop ofCarthage; triumph of an emperor, might speedily restore them by a generalpardon to their former state. The martyrs, devoted to immediateexecution by the Roman magistrates, appear to have been selectedfrom the most opposite extremes. They were either bishops andpresbyters, the persons the most distinguished among the Christiansby their rank and influence, and whose example might strike terrorinto the whose sect t9; or else they were the meanest and mostabject among them, particularly those of the servile condition whoselives were esteemed of little value, and whose sufferings were viewed'by the ancients with too careless an indifference 70. The learnedOrigen who, from his experience as well as reading, was intimatelyacquainted with the history of the Christians, declares, in the mostexpress terms, that the number of martyrs was very inconsiderable7'.His authority would alone be sufficient to annihilate that formidablearmy of martyrs, whose relics, drawn for the most part from thecatacombs of Rome, have replenished so many churches 7%t andwhose marvellous atchievements have been the subject of so manyvolumes of Holy Romance 75. But the general assertion of Origenmay be explained and confirmed by the particular testimony of his friendDionysius, who in the immense city of Alexandria, and under therigorous persecution of Decius, reckons only ten men and sevenwomen who suffered for the profession of the Christian name 7+. During the same period of persecution, the zealous, the eloquent,the ambitious Cyprian governed the church, not only of Carthage,but even of Africa. He possessed every quality which could engagethe reverence of the faithful, or provoke the suspicions and resent­ment of the Pagan magistrates. His character as well as his stationseemed to mark out that holy prelate as the most distinguished objectof envy and of danger 75. The experience, however, of the lifeof Cyprian, is sufficient to prove, that our fancy has exaggerated theperilous situation of a Christian bishop ; and that the dangers to whichhe was exposed were less imminent than those which temporal ar3 - . bit ion