OCR Output 64 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. In this narrow space, the disorderly and affrighted crowdwas incapable of resisting on either side a firm and regu­lar attack; the blues signalized the fury of their repent­ance; and it is computed, that above thirty thousandpersons were slain in the merciless and promiscuous car­nage of the day. Hypatius was dragged from his throne,and conducted with his brother Pompey to the feet ofthe emperor: they implored his clemency; but theircrime was manifest, their innocence uncertain, and Jus­tinian had been too much terrified to forgive. The nextmorning the two nephews of Anastasius, with eighteenillustrious accomplices, of patrician or consular rank, wereprivately executed by the soldiers; their bodies werethrown into the sea, their palaces razed, and their for­tunes confiscated. The hippodrome itself was condemn­ed during several years to a mournful silence: with therestoration of the games, the same disorders revived: andthe blue and green factions continued to afflict the reignof Justinian, and to disturb the tranquillity of the easternempire,8 , ■ . •Agriculture HI. That empire, after Rome was barbarous, still em-factures of braced the nations whom she had conquered beyond the*?*i£erD Hadriatic, and, as far as the frontiers of ^Ethiopia andPersia. Justinian reigned over sixty-four provinces, andnine hundred and thirty-five cities ;h his dominions wereblessed by nature with the advantages of soil, situation,and climate; and the improvements of human art hadbeen perpetually diffused along the coast of the Mediter­ranean and the banks of the Nile, from ancient Trov tothe ^Egyptian Thebes. Abraham1 had been relieved by K Marcellinus says in generat terms, innumeris populis in circo trucidatis. Pro.copins numbers thirty thousand victims: and the thirty-five thousand of Theophanesare swelled to forty thousand by the more recent Zonaras. Such is the usual pro­gress of exaggeration, b Hierocles, a contemporary of Justinian, composed his Juvh^uo;, (Itineraria,p. 631.) or review of the eastern provinces and cities, before the year 535. (Wesselingin Prafat. and Not. ad. p. 623, &c.) ■ See the book of Genesis, (12.10.) and the administration of Joseph. The annalsof the Greeks and Hebrews agree in the early arts and plenty of jEgypt: but thisantiquity supposes a long series of improvements: and Warhurton, who is almoststifled by the Hebrew, catls aloud for the Samaritan chronology. (Divine Legation,vol. 3. p. 29, Sec.)