OCR Output ROMA. 787 KOMA. *)al eanfinnj what has been already said respect­ing tat (brum and its environs; except that thewren M* Ytterihiu show that the bankers' shops•we not confined to the N. side of the forum. What!.v osasai was in the middle of the forum is notbat it was perhaps a drain. The passage is,r »»ne plans, probably corrupt, as appears fromti* two obscure lines respecting the mariti Ditit,t ^' wv-ond if which is inexplicable, though they pro­bably contain sane allusion to the Sacellum Ditiseirfc we hare mentioned as adjoining the temple ofSxara. Mommsen, however (£ c p. 29"), wouldmi "dite* damnosos marito," &c, taking these ['Atei * to be the rich usurers who resorted to thewi-ra and lent young men money for the purposet orroptiag city wives. But what has tended to. doubts upon the whole passage is the mention( the basilica, since, according to the testimonyI Cicero (Brut. IS), Plautus died in the very■er of Catos censorship. Yet the basilica isas alluded to in another passage of Plautus be-•t ;ao«»d; so that we can hardly imagine but thatvswA have existed in his lifetime. If we couldlacs the basilica in Cato's aedileship instead of .fneonbip, every difficulty would vanish; butr act s view we can produce no authority.il.Tr.mwo (/&. p. 301) has made an ingenious,•i »! improbable attempt to show, that Plautus, Woa a good poet, has mentioned all these.t'j en the forum in the order in which they ac-ifly existed; whence he draws a confirmation of > view respecting the situation of the comitium.o£ rart of the forum is mentioned first as being > nest excellent. Then follows on the left• Sacrum Clnarinae, the Basilica Porcia, and-ra Ptscaicriurn. and the Forum Infimnm. Re-•3Cf by the middle he names the canalis, andrrmit down the forum again on the right, or tide. In the " malevoli supra lacum " therrilios is alluded to at the top of the VicusThen we have the Veteres Tabemae, thenm of Castor, the Vicns Tuscus. and Velabrnm. flasibVa Porcia was soon followed by others,i Srxt in the order of time was the BasilicaLiu, banded in the censorship of M. Aemiliusam. and M. Fnlvius NobQior, B.C. 179. Thisska* post Arzentariaa Novas" (Liv. xl. 51), and« 'before have been very close to the BasilicaEx. Fra the two censors it was sometimes■'■ Sct'uca Aexnilia et Fulvia, (Varr. L.L. vi.k&a.) All the subsequent embellishments andnuas appear, however, to have proceeded from«-« Aemilis. M. Aemilius Lepidus, consul with. utiz* in B- c "8, adorned it with bronze )J waring the effigies of his ancestors. (Plin.14) It appears to have l«en entirely re-by I- AemiJras Panllus, when sedile, n. c.7Ve mm to bare been the restoration alludedr Cm (ad A't. iw. 16), from which passage.— paaettaitaosi and teat are correct, for itaaca locos dessperatns — it also appears that!.' *m it the same time constructing anotherrxiyaifiornt basilica. Hence a difficulty arisesrLr; the situation of the latter, which wo are, v vive, since? only one Basilica Paulu isww& be ancient authors; and Plutarch (Com.asi ipreasly that Paulina expended the large,. rwtmy which he bad received from Caesar'» ;b 'building on the forum, in place of the„ Fabria, a new one which bore bis own(C£ Aapian, B. C. ii. 26.) It it certain at least that we must not assume with Becker (Jlandb.p. 303) that the latter was but a poor affair in compa­rison with the new one because it was built with theancient columns. It is plain that in the words"nihil gratius illo monuinento, nihil gloriosins,"Cicero Is alluding to the restoration of the ancientbasilica, since he goes on to mention it as one whichused to be extolled by Atticus, which would nothave been possible of a new building; and the em­ployment of the ancient columns only added to itsbeauty. The building thus restored, however, wasnot destined to stand long. It seems to have l>eenrebuilt less then twenty years afterward* by PanllusAemilius Lepidus (Dion Cass. xlix. 42); and inabout another twenty years this second restorationwas destroyed by a fire. It was again rebuilt in thename of the same Puullus, but at the cxfiense ofAugustus and other friends (Id. liv. 24), and re­ceived further embellishments in. the reign of Ti­berius, A. D. 22. (Tac Am. iii. 72.) It wasin this last phase that Pliny saw it when he ad­mired its magnificence and its columns of Phrygianmarble (xxxvi. 24). basilica AF.Mn.IA. (From a Coin.) The third building of this kind was the BasilicaSFMrRoNiA, erected by T. Sempronius Gracchus inhis censorship, ji.e. 169. For this purpose he pur­chased the house of Scipio Africanus, together withsome adjoining butchers' shops, behind the TabemaeVeteres, and near the statue of Vertumnus, which, aswe have said, stood near the forum at the end of theVicns Tuscus. (Liv. xliv. 16.) This, therefore, wasthe first basilica erected on the S. side of the fomnj.We hear no further mention of it, and therefore itseems probable that it altogether disappeared, andthat its site between the Vicns Tuscus nnd VicusJugarius was subsequently occupied in the imperialtimes by the Basilica Julia. The Lai'tcmiak, of which we have had occasionto speak when treating of the Basilica Porcia, wasnot merely the name of a district near the forum,but also of a prison which appears to have beenconstructed during the Republican period. The*Lantumiae are first mentioned after the SecondPunic War, and it seems very probuble, as Varrosays (£. /,. v. § 151, M!ill.), that the name wasderived from the prison at Syracuse; though wecan hardly accept his second suggestion, that theetymology is to be traced at Borne, as well as inthe Sicilian city, to the circumstance that stonequarries formerly existed at the spot. The oldertopographers, down to the time of Bunsen, assumedthat I.autumiae was only another appellation forthe Career Mamertinus, a misconception perhapsoccasioned by the abruptness with which Varro(/. r.) passes from his account of the Tullianum tothat of the Lautumiae. We read of the latter as aplace for the custody of hostages and prisoners ofwar in Livy (xxxii. 26, xxxvii. 3); a purpose towhich neither the size nor the dungeon-like coo, 3 E 2