OCR Output 446 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. endowments of their own nation. The literature of thesixth century had arisen from the influence of Greek art onhalf-cultivated, but excited and susceptible minds. The in­creased Hellenic culture of the seventh called forth a lite­rary reaction, which destroyed the germs of promise containedin those naive attempts at imitation by the winter-frost ofreflection, and rooted up the wheat and the tares of the olderSoipionic type of literature together. This reaction proceeded prima-circle. rily and chiefly from the circle which assembled around Scipio iEmilianus, and whose most prominent membersamong the Roman noble world were, in addition to Scipiohimself, his elder friend and counsellor Gaius Laelius (con-140. sul in 614) and Scipio's younger companions, Lucius Furius136. Philus (consul in 618) and Spurius Mummius, the brotherof the destroyer of Corinth, among the Roman and Greekliterati the comedian Terence, the satirist Lucilius, thehistorian Polybius, and the philosopher Panaetius. Thosewho were familiar with the Iliad, with Xenophon, and withMenander, could not be greatly impressed by the RomanHomer, and still less by the bad translations of the tragediesof Euripides which Ennius had furnished and Pacuvius con­tinued to furnish. While patriotic consideration might setbounds to criticism in reference to their country's Annals,Lucilius at any rate directed very pointed shafts against"the dismal figures from the complicated expositions ofPacuvius;" and similar severe, but not unjust criticisms ofEnnius, Plautus, Pacuvius—all those poets " who appearedto have a licence to talk pompously and to reason iJlogically,"—are found in the polished author of the Rhetoric dedicatedto Herennius written at the close of this period. Peopleshrugged their shoulders at the interpolations, with whichthe homely popular wit of Rome had garnished the elegantcomedies of Philemon and Diphilus. Half smiling, halfenvious they turned away from the inadequate attempts of adull age, which that circle probably regarded somewhat aaa mature man regards the poetical effusions of his youth;despairing of the transplantation of the marvellous tree,they allowed the higher species of art in poetry and prosesubstantially to fall into abeyance, and restricted themselvesin these departments to an intelligent enjoyment of foreignmaster-pieces. The productiveness of this epoch displayeditself chiefly in the subordinate fields of the lighter comedy,the poetical miscellany, the political pamphlet, and the pro­