OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 51 tance; her extreme lenity never consented to inflict any corporal or pecuniarypenalties on her Roman subjects; and she generously despised the clamours of theGoths, who at the end of forty years, still considered the people of Italy as theirslaves or their enemies. Her salutary measures were directed by the wisdom, andcelebrated by the eloquence of Cassiodorus; she solicited and deserved the friend­ship of the emperor; and the kingdoms of Europe respected, both in peace and■war, the majesty of the Gothic throne. But the future happiness of the queen andof Italy depended on the education of her son, who was destined by his birth,to support the different and almost incompatible characters of the chief of a bar­barian camp, and the first magistrate of a civilized nation. From the age of tenyears,(l) Athalaric was diligently instructed in the arts and sciences, either use­ful or ornamental for a Roman prince; and three venerable Goths were chosento instil the principles of honour and virtue into the mind of their young king. Butthe pupil, who is insensible of the benefits, must abhor the restraints of education;and the solicitude of the queen, which affection rendered anxious and severe, of­fended the untractable nature of her son and his subjects. On a solemn festival,■when the Goths were assembled in the palace of Ravenna, the royal youth es­caped from his mother's apartment, and with tears of pride and anger, complainedof a blow which his stubborn disobedience had provoked her to inflict. The bar­barians resented the indignity which had been offered to their king; accused theregent of conspiring against his life and crown; and imperiously demanded, thatthe grandson of Theodoric should be rescued from the dastardly discipline of wo­men and pedants, and educated, like a valiant Goth, in the society of his equals,and the glorious ignorance of his ancestors. To this rude clamour, importunate­ly urged as the voice of the nation, Amalasontha was compelled to yield her rea­son, and the dearest wishes of her heart. The king of Italy was abandoned towine, to women, and to rustic sports; and the indiscreet contempt of the ungrate­ful youth, betrayed the mischievous designs of his favourites and her enemies. En­compassed with domestic foes, she entered into a secret negotiation with the empe­ror Justinian; obtained the assurance of a friendly reception, and had actually depo­sited at Dyrrachium in Epirus, a treasure of forty thousand pounds of gold. Hap- Sy would it have been for her fame and safety, if she had calmly retired from bar-arous faction, to the peace and splendour of Constantinople. But the mind ofAmalasontha was inflamed by ambition and revenge; and while her ships lay atanchor in the port, she waited for the success of a crime, which her passions ex­cused or applauded as an act of justice. Three of the most dangerous malecon-tents had been separately removed, under the pretence of trust and command, tothe frontiers of Italy; they were assassinated by her private emissaries; and theblood of those noble Goths rendered the queen-mother absolute in the court ofRavenna, and justly odious to a free people. But if she had lamented the disorderof her son, she soon wept his irreparable loss; and the death of Athalaric, who, atthe age of sixteen, was consumed by premature intemperance, left her destituteof any firm support or legal authority. Instead of submitting to the laws of hercountry, which held as a fundamental maxim, that the succession could neverpass from the lance to the distaff, the daughter of Theodoric conceived the im­practicable design of sharing with one of her cousins, the regal title and of re­serving in her own hands the substance of supreme power. He received the pro­posal with profound respect and affected gratitude; and the eloquent Cassiodorusannounced to the senate and to the emperor, that Amalasontha and Theodatus hadascended the throne of Italy. His birth (for his mother was the sister of Theodoric)might be considered as an imperfect title; and the choice of Amalasontha was morestrongly directed by her contempt of his avarice and pusillanimity, which had de­prived him of the love of the Italians, and the esteem of the barbarians. But The­odatus was exasperated by the contempt which he deserved; her justice had repres­sed and reproached the oppression which he exercised against his Tuscan neigh­bours; and the principal Goths, united by common guilt and resentment, conspiredto instigate his slow and timid disposition. The letters of congratulation werescarcely despatched before the queen of Italy was imprisoned in a small island ofthe lake of Bolsena,(2) where, after a short confinement, she was strangled in the (1) At the death of Theodoric,his grandson Athalaric is described by Procopius as a hoy about eight yeanold—ox™ yeyovea; mi. Cassiodorus, with authority and reason, adds two years to his age—infamutum a'hucvix decennero. (2) The lake, from the neighbouring towns of Etruria, was stvled either Vulsiniensis (now of Bolsena) orTarquuviensis. It is surrounded with white rocks, and stored with fish and wild fowl. The youuger riiny