OCR Output C. II.] SURRENDER OF GISCHALA. 85 no Roman guard about the city, ho seized the opportunitydirectly, and taking with him not only the armed men thatwere about him, but a considerable number of those that hadlittle to do, together with their families, he fled to Jerusalem.And, indeed, though the man was making haste to get away,and was tormented with fears of being a captive or of losinghis life, yet did he prevail with himself to take out of thecity along with him a multitude of women and children, asfar as twenty furlongs; but there he left them as he proceededfarther on his journey, where those that were left behindmade sad lamentations; for the farther every one of themwas come from his own people, the nearer they thought them­selves to be to their enemies. They also affrighted them­selves with this thought, that those who would carry theminto captivity were just at hand, and still turned themselvesback at the mere noise they made themselves in this theirhasty flight, as if those from whom they fled were just uponthem. Many also of them missed their ways, and the earnest­ness of such as aimed to outgo the rest threw down many ofthem. And, indeed, there was a miserable destruction madeof the women and children; while some of them took thecourage to call their husbands and kinsmen back, and to be­seech them, with the bitterest lamentations, to stay for them;but John's exhortation, who cried out to them to save them­selves and fly away, prevailed. He said also, that if theRomans should seize upon those whom they left behind, theywould be revenged on them for it. So this multitude thatran thus away was dispersed abroad, according as each ofthem was able to run one faster or slower than another. 5. Now on the next day Titus came to the wall to makethe agreement, whereupon the people opened their gates tohim, and came out to him, with their children and wives, andmade acclamations of joy to him, as to one that had been theirbenefactor, and had delivered the city out of custody; theyalso informed him of John's flight, and besought him to sparethem, and to come in, and bring the rest of those that werefor innovations to punishment. But Titus, not so much re­garding the supplications of the people, sent part of his horse-IV.—8