OCR Output 334 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. The number of Corinthians slain in the battle was twohundred and twelve ; that of Athenians somewhat less thanfifty. The Athenians, leaving the islands, appeared the sameday before Crommyon, situated in its territory, and distantfrom the city of Corinth one hundred and twenty stadia*.They landed and ravaged the country, and that night re­posed themselves there. The day following they sailedalong the coast, first to Epidaurus ; and, after a kind of de­scent there, arrived at Methone, which lies between Epidau­rus and Troezen. Possessing themselves there of the isthmusof Cherronesus on which Methone is situated, they run upa wall across it, and fixed a garrison of continuance in thatpost, which for the future extended their depredations overall the districts of Troezen, Halias, and Epidaurus. But thefleet, when once this post was sufficiently secured, sailed awayfor Athens. During the space of time which co-incided with thesetransactions, Eurymedon and Sophocles, who with the shipsof the Athenians had quitted Pylus to proceed in the voyageto Sicily, arrived at Corcyra. They joined the Corcyreansof the city, marching out against those who were posted onthe mount of Istone, that party who repassing soon after thesedition were at this time masters of the country, and corn-two bodies was, according to that writer, an actual renunciation of the vic­tory ; since it was against all rules for persons who had condescended tosuch a submission, to erect a trophy. But, without disparaging the goodqualities of Nicias, or his obedience to the institutions of his country in re­gard to the dead, which were ever most sacredly observed, it may be ques­tioned, whether he renounced the victory on this occasion. Thucydidessays the trophy was already erected, which ascertained, without doubt, thehonour of the victory, and nothing is said of its demolition by the Corinthi­ans, when they received this request of truce from Nicias. His re-em­barking in a hurry seems a distinct affair. It had no connexion with thelate battle, which had been clearly and fairly won ; but was owing to afresh army coming into the field on the side of the enemy. This stoppedhim indeed from gaining any fresh honour, but surely did not deprive himof what he was already possessed of. • About 12 English miles.