OCR Output CHAP. L. 265 tempted to forget his distant country and his unfortunatemaster. The historians of the age of Justinian representthe state of the independent Arabs, who were divided byinterest or aifection in the long quarrel of the east; thetribe of Gassan was allowed to encamp on the Syrian ter­ritory; the princes of Hira were permitted to form acity about forty miles to the southward of the ruins ofBabylon. Their service in the field was speedy and vi­gorous; but their friendship was venal, their faith in­constant, their enmity capricious; it was an easier taskto excite than to disarm these roving barbarians; and,in the familiar intercourse of war, they learned to see,and to despise, the splendid weakness both of Rome andof Persia. From Mecca to the Euphrates, the Arabiantribes' were confounded by the Greeks and Latins, underthe general appellation of SARACENS/ a name whichevery Christian mouth has been taught to pronouncewith terror and abhorrence. Their do- The slaves of domestic tyranny may vainlydomaid*8" exult in their national independence; but thecharacter. j\rab is personally free; and he enjoys, in somedegree, the benefits of society, without forfeiting theprerogatives of nature. In every tribe, superstition, orgratitude, or fortune, has exalted a particular familyabove the heads of their equals. The dignities of sheichand emir invariably descend in this chosen race; butthe order of succession is loose and precarious; andthe most worthy or aged of the noble kinsmen are 'The Sajaxwix* ifvXs, ffjftzSt; riuna »ai TO orMwiov auran spniuwo^a, xai aare described by Menander, (Excerpt Legation, p. 149.) Procopius,(de Bell. Persic.lib. 1. c. 17. 19. lib. 2. c. 10.) and, in the most lively colours, by Ammianus Marcellinus, (lib. 14. c. 4.) who had spoken of them as early as the reign of Marcus.* The name which, used by Ptolemy and Pliny in a more confined, by Ammi­anus and Procopius in a larger, sense, has been derived, ridiculously, from Sarah,the wife of Abraham, obscurely from the village of Saraka(fura$afSariuwt; Stephan.de I ' r I ,il in s ) , more plausibly from the Arabic words, which signify a thieviih charac­ter, or arimtal situation. (Holtinger, Hist,|Oriental. lib. I.e. 1. p. 7, 8. Pocock, Spe­cimen, p. 33. 35. Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 567.) Yet the last and mostpopular of these etymologies, is refuted by Ptolemy, (Arabia, p. 2. 18. in Hudson,torn. 4.) who expressly remarks the western and southern position of the Saracens,then an obscure tribe on the borders of Egypt. The appellation cannot thereforeallude to any national character; and, since it was imposed by strangers, it mustbe found, not in the Arabic, but in a foreign language.