OCR Output B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423 . 401 and the auxiliaries had chanced to ground their arms in thisquarter within the wall, drew them up in order of battle,and exhorted the Mendeans to sally out. It was replied ina seditious manner by one of the popular faction, that" they would not sally, and would have nothing to do with" the war." At such a refusal Polydamidas having laidhands upon the person, a tumult at once ensued,-in whichthe people ran immediately to arms, and, furious with anger,made towards the Peloponnesians, and all those of the op足posite faction who sided with them. They fell upon androuted them in an instant, terrified as they were at this sud足den assault; and the gates were thrown open at the sametime to the Athenians. They supposed this insurrection hadbeen made against them in consequence of some previouscombination; and as many as escaped out of the scufflewith life, fled away to the citadel, which was before in theirpossession. But the Athenians (for Nicias was now returned beforethe city) bursting into Mende, for it was not opened bycomposition, with their whole united force, plundered it asthough taken by storm; nay, the generals had some diffi足culty to restrain their soldiers from putting the inhabitantsto the sword. And after this they issued their commandsto the Mendeans to continue their government in the usualform, and to proceed judicially against those of their bodywhom they esteemed the principal authors of the revolt.Those in the citadel they shut up with a wall extending onboth sides to the sea, and posted a guard to secure theblockade. When in this manner they had possessed themselves ofMende, they marched against Scione. The inhabitants, withthe Peloponnesian aids, coming out to receive them, postedthemselves on a strong eminence before the city ; which, un足less the enemy could take it, would infallibly prevent theirwalling them about. But the Athenians stormed the post,and after an engagement forced them to dislodge, they formed