OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 453 bishops, the impression was erased by the zeal and elo­quence of the Magi; if he was armed with philosophicindifference, he accommodated his belief, or rather hisprofessions, to the various circumstances' of an exile and .. . -a sovereign. The imaginary conversion of the king ofPersia was reduced to a local and superstitious venerationfor Sergius,1 one of the saints of Antioch, who heard hisprayers and appeared to him in dreams; he enriched hisshrine with offerings of gold and silver, and ascribed tohis invisible patron, the success of his arms, and thepregnancy of Sira, a devout Christian, and the best be­loved of his wives." The beauty of Sira or Schirin,*her wit, her musical talents, are still famous in the his­tory, or rather in the romances of the east: her ownname is expressive, in the Persian tongue, of sweetnessand grace; and the epithet of Parvis alludes to the charmsof her royal lover. Yet Sira never shared the passionwhich she inspired, and the bliss of Chosroes was tor­tured by a jealous doubt, that while he possessed her per­son, she had bestowed her affections on a meaner fa­vourite/ •1 While the majesty of the Roman name was revived in Pride, po- * Sergius and his companion Bacchus, who are said to have suffered in the perse­cution of Maximian, obtained divine kouoor in France, Italy, Constantinople, and theeast. Their tomb at Rasaphe was famous for miracles, and that Syrian town acquiredthe more honourable name of Sergiopolis. Tillemont, Mem. Socles, torn. 5. p. 491—496. Butler's Saints, vol. 10. p. 155. "Evagriua, (lib. 6. c. 21.) and Theophylact, (lib. 5. c. 13,14.) hare preserved theoriginal letters of Chosroes, written in Greek, signed with his own hand, and after­ward inscribed on crosses and tables of gold, which were deposited in the church ofSergiopolis. They had been sent to the bishop of Antioch, as primate of Syria. , * The Greeks only describe her as a Roman by birth, a Christian by religion; but•he is represented as the daughter of the emperor Maurice in the Persian and TurkishRomances, which celebrate the love of Khosrou for Schirin, of Schirin'fur Ferhad, themost beautiful youth of the east. D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 789. 997, 998. T The whole series of the tyranny of Hormouz, the revolt of Bahrain, and the flightand restoration of Chosroes, is related by two contemporary Greeks—more conciselyby Kvagrius, (lib. 6. c. 16—19.)—and most diffusely by Theophylaot Simocatta:(lib. 3. c. 6—18. lib. 4. c. 1—16* lib. 5. c. 1—15.) succeeding compilers, Zonarasand Cedrenus, can only transcribe and abridge. The Christian Arabs Eutycliius, (An-nal. torn. 2. p. 200—20G.) and Ahnlpharagius, (Dynast, p. 96—98.) appear to haveoousulted some particular memoirs. The great Persian historians of the fifteenth cen­tury, Mirkhond and Khondemir, are only known to ine by the imperfect extracts ofShikard, (Tarikh, p. 150—155.) Texeira, or rather Stevens, (Hist, of Persia, p. 182—186.) a Turkish MS. translated by the abbe Fourmont, (Hist, de l'Acadeinie desInscriptions, torn. 7. p. S25—334.) and d'Herbelot, (aux mots, Hormouz, p. 457—459. Bahrain, p. 174. Khosrou Parviz, p. 996.) Were I perfectly satisfied of theirauthority, I could wish these oriental materials had been more copious.