OCR Output Hi ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. cf taxes. Of which matter I shall treat more accurately inthe progress of this history *. 3. At length Zamaris the Babylonian, to whom Herod hadgiven that country for a possession, died ; having lived vir­tuously, and left children of a good character behind him;one of whom was Jacim, who was famous for his valour, andtaught his Babylonians how to ride their horses ; and a troop . of them were guards to the fore-mentioned kings. And whenJzicim was dead in his old age, he left a son, whose name wasPhilip, one of great strength in his hands, and in other re­spects also more eminent for his valour than any of his con­temporaries ; on which account there was a confidence andfirm friendship between him and King Agrippa. He had alsoan army which he maintained, as great as that of 'a king ;which he exercised and led wheresoever he had occasion toinarch. 4. When the affairs of Herod were in the condition I havedescribed, all the public affairs depended upon Antipater ; andhis power was such, that he could do good turns to as manyas he pleased, and this by his father's concession, in hopes of.his good will and fidelity to him; and this till he ventured to.use his power still farther, because his wicked designs wereconcealed from his father, and he made him believe everything he said. He was also formidable to all, not so much'jpn account of the power and authority he had, as for theshrewdness of his vile attempts before-hand: but he whoprincipally cultivated a friendship with him was Pheroras,who received the like marks of his friendship ; while Anti-.pater had cunningly encompassed him about by a company ofwomen, whom he placed as guards about him : for Pheroraswas greatly enflaved to his wife, and to her mother, and toher sister ; and this notwithstanding the hatred he bare them,ior the indignities they had offered to his virgin daughters.Yet did he bear them, and nothing was to be done withoutthe women, who had got this man into their circle, and con­tinued still to assist each other in all things, insomuch thatAntipater was entirely addicted to them, both by himself andby his mother ; for these four women f said all one and thesame thing ; but the opinions of Pheroras and Antipater weredifferent in some points of no consequence. But the king'ssister [Salome] was their antagonist, who for a good whilehad looked about all their affairs, and was apprifed that thistheir friendship was made in order to do Herod some mischief, and » This is now wanting. t Pheroras's wife, and her mother and sister, and Doris, Antipater'« nm.then