OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 175 hewn with iron tools. So on the five and twentieth day of themonth Casleu, which the Macedonians call Apelleus, they lightedthe lamps that were on the candlestick, and offered incense uponthe [altar of incense], and laid the loaves upon the table [ofshew-bread,] and offered burnt-offerings upon the new altar [ofburnt-offering]. Now it so fell out, that these things were doneon the very same day on which their divine worship had fallenoff, and was reduced to a profane and common use, after threeyears' time; for so it was, that the temple was made desolate byAntiochus, and so continued for three years. This desolationhappened to the temple in the hundred forty and fifth year, onthe twenty-fifth day of the month Apelleus, and on the hundredfifty and third Olympiad: but it was dedicated anew, on thesame day, the twenty-fifth of the month Apelleus, on the hun­dred and forty-eight year, and on the hundred and fifty-fourthOlympiad. And this declaration came to pass according to theprophecy of Daniel which was given four hundred and eightyears before; for he declared that the Macedonians would dis­solve that worship [for some time.] 7. Now Judas celebrated the festival of the restoration of thesacrifices of the temple for eight days; and omitted no sort ofpleasures thereon; but he feasted them upon very rich and splen­did sacrifices.; and he honoured God, and delighted them byhymns and psalms. Nay, they were so very glad at the revivalof their customs, when, after a long time of intermission, theyunexpectedly had regained the freedom of their worship, thatthey made it a law for their posterity, that they should keep afestival on account of the restoration of their temple worship, foreight days. And from that time to this we celebrate this festival,and call it Lights. I suppose the reason was, because this libertybeyond our hopes appeared to us; and that thence was the namegiven to the festival. Judas also rebuilt the walls round aboutthe city; and reared towers of great height against the incursionsof enemies; and set guards therein. He also fortified the cityBethshura, that it might serve as a citadel against any distressesthat might come from our enemies. CHAP. VIII. Haw Judas subdued the nations round about; and how Simon beatthe people of Tyre and Ptolemais ', and how Judas overcameTimotheus, and forced him to jfty away, and did many otherthings, after Joseph and Azarias had been beaten. $ 1. >THEN these things were over, the nations roundabout the Jews were very uneasy at the revival of their power,