OCR Output THESSALONICA. THESSALONICA. 1171 ■ten Capet Yardar and Kardburnu. On the edgeI this basin it the city, partly on the level shorehi putiy on the »l«pe of a hill, in 40° 38' 47" N.L, and 22° 57' 22" E. long. The present appear-tce ti the city, as seen from the sea, is describedr Leake, Holland, and other travellers as very im­am;. It rises in the form of a crescent up theilmiy, and is surrounded by lufty whitened walls,th tuwers at intervals. On the K. and W. sides oft city ravines ascend from the shore and convergenrdt the highest point, on which is the citadeltimi 'Zvrmriyytar, like that of Constantinople. (Av of Thessalonica from the sea is given by Cou­rt). The port is still convenient for large ships,J the anchorage in front of the town is good.**x circumstances in the situation of Thessalonical» evidently favourable for commanding the tradeIta Macedonian sea. Its relations to the inlandCrieis wan equally advantageous. With one of theI great levels of Macedonia, viz. the plain of theii w-flowing Axiua " (Horn. A ii. 849), to the N.the range of Olympus, it was immediately con-!fd. With the other, viz. the plain of the Stry-i and Lake Cercinitis, it communicated by ft passas the neck of the Chalcistic peninsula. Thusr-todouica became tlie chief station on the Romani Eoiatta, between the Hadriatic and the Hel-Its distance from Pella, as given by thecranes, ia 27 miles, and from Amphipolis (withm.ediate stations; see Act. A post. xvii. 1) 67■>. It ia still the chief centre of the trado of thenet It contains a population of 60,000, or*>>, and (though Adrianople may possibly be»r) it ■ the most important town of Europeantry. next after Constantinople. Name.—Two legendary names, which Thessa-ca at said to have borne in early times, areitbia (Zonar. Hut zii. 26) and Halia (Steph.. r.), the Utter probably having reference to the::ine petition of the town. During the first»J of its authentic history, it was known under • w of Tiikkma (**<cmi, Aesch.; 8«>fji), Herod.,ryd.j Bipucu, Mai. Chronog. p. 190, ed. Bonn),"ad, ia common with the designation of the gulf•ncaicoa Sinus), from the hot salt-springs, which:»and on various parts of this coast, and oneL ch especially is described by Pococke as beingGlance of 4 English miles from the modern (Sao Seylax, p. 278, ed. Gail.) Three storiesold of tile origin of the name Thessalonica. The(tad by far the most probable) is given byM (rii. EpU. 10), who says that Therma wasit by Caiiearider, and called after bis wifealimica, the daughter of Philip: the second is in Steph. B. (#. r.), who says that its new namei memorial of a victory obtained by Philip over Lrisaliaju (see Const. Porphyrog. De Them. ii., ed Bonn): the third is in the Ehpn. llagn.), where it ia stated that Philip himself gave the in honour of his daughter. Whichever ofatia its is true, the new name of Thessalonica,kj new eminence connected with the name, arectiy associated with the Macedonian period,»>t at ail with the earlier passages of true history. The name, thus given, became per-Tbroogh the Roman and Byzantine pe­ts remained unaltered. In the Middle Afcesliiana cave it the form of Salonichi or Saioniki, is still frequent. In I^atin chronicles we findnil. In German poems of the thirteenth cen-br name appears, with a Teutonic termination, as Salnek. The uneducated Greeks of the presentday call the place SaAoWin), the Turks Selanik. 8. Political and Military History.—Thessalonica was a place of some importance, evenwhile it bore its earlier name of Tiikkma. Threepassages of chief interest may be mentioned in thisperiod of its history. Xerxes rested here on hismarch, his land-forces being encamped on the plainbetween Therma and the Axius, and his ships cruis­ing about the Thermaic gulf; and it was the viewfrom hence of Olympus and Ossa which temptedhim to explore the course of the Peneius. (Herod,vii. 128, seqq.) A short time (b. c. 421) beforethe breaking ont of the Peloponnesian War, Thermawas occupied by the Athenians (Thncyd. i. 61);but two years later it was given up to Perdiccaa(Id. ii. 29.) The third mention of Therma is inAeschines (de Fait. Leg. p. 31, ed. Bekk ), whereit is spoken of ns one of the places taken by I'au-sanias. Tho true history of Tiif.ssai.onk a begins, aswe have implied above, with the decay of Greeknationality. The earliest author who mentions itunder its new name is Polybius. It seems probablethat it was rebuilt in the same year (n. c. 315) withCassandreia, immediately after the fall of Pydnaand the death of Olympias. [Cassandkeia.] Weare told by Strabo (/. c.) that Cassander incorpo­rated in his new city the population, not only ofTherma, but likewise of three smaller towns, vii.Aeneia and Cissus (which are supposed to hare beenon tho eastern side of the gulf), and Chalastra(which is said by Strabo (vii. F.pit. 9) to have been onthe further side of the Axius, whence Tafel (p. xxii.)by some mistake infers that it lay between the Axiusand Therma). It does not appear that these earliercities were absolutely destroyed; nor indeed is itcertain that Therma lost its separate existence.Pliny (L e.) seems to imply that a place bearingthis name was near Thessalonica; but the text isprobably corrupt. As we approach the Roman period, Thessalonicabegins to be more and more mentioned. From Livy(xliv. 10) this city would appear to have been thegreat Macedonian naval station. It surrendered tothe Romans after the battle of Pydna (lb. xliv. 45),and was made the capital of the second of the fonrdivisions of Macedonia (lb. xlr. 29). Afterwarils,when the whole of Macedonia was reduced to one pro­vince (Flor. ii. 14), Thessalonica was its most import­ant city, and virtually its metropolis, though not socalled till a later period. [Macedonia.] Cicero,dur-ing his exile, found a refuge here in the quaestor'shouse (pro Plane. 41); and on his journeys to andfrom his province of Cilicia he passed this way, andwrote here several of his extant letters. During thefirst Civil War Thessalonica was the head-quartersof the Potnpeian party and the senate. (Dion Cast,xli. 20.) During the second it took the side ofOctavius and Antonius (Pint. Brut. 46; Appian,Ii. C. iv. 118), and reaped the advantage of thiscourse by being made a free city. (See Plin. /. c.)It is possible that the word lAeaeVpiar, with thehead of Octaria, on some of the coins of Thes­salonica, has refcrenco to this circumstance (seeEckheL ii. p. 79); and some writers see in theVardtir gate, mentioned below, a monument of thevictory over Brutus and Cassius. Even before the close of the Republic Thes­salonica was a city of great importance, in eon-sequence of its position on the line of communication 4 r 2