OCR Output NOTES ON THE raised from the bottom of the fountain a fair boy, of a moderatestature, whose hair seemed to be tinged with gold, and the upperpart of whose breast was of a luminous appearance. His com­panions being astonished at the novelty of the affair, Let us passon, fays he, to the next fountain; and at the fame time he arose,fixed in thought, and, performing the same ceremonies as before,called forth the other Love, who was in all respects similar to theformer, except that his hair scattered in his neck was blacker,and was like the fun in refulgence. At the fame time, both theboys eagerly embraced Jamblichus, as if he had been their na­tural parent: but he immediately restored them to their properfeats, and, when he had washed, departed from the place." Letthe reader, however, be careful to remember, that though Erosand Anteros are gods considered according to their first subsist­ence, yet these which are mentioned by Eunapius were of thedæmoniacal order; and were perhaps dæmons only xaia. o-x'ov, ac-eording to habitude, or alliance. Page 91. Carrying with them burning lamps."] The proprietyof employing burning lamps, in a contest sacred to Prometheut,is sufficiently apparent from the account we have already given ofthis divinity. For Prometheus, we have shewn, is the inspec-tive guardian of the descent of rational souls; and fire, from itstending upwards, is an emblem of the rational foul. As a burn­ing lamp therefore may be considered as a very proper image ofour rational part, it appears to me, that this custom adopted bythe Athenians, of running from the altar of Prometheus to thecity with burning lamps, in which he alone was victoiious whoselamp remained unextinguished in the race, was intended to signi­fy that he is the true conqueror in the race of life, whose rationalpart is not extinguished, or, in other words, does not become dor­mant in the career. Page 91, For Socrates, in the night k'fore that day on whichPlato became his disciple, Jaw in a dream a swan j7y to his bosom.]The foul of Plato, according to the ancients, descended from8 Apollo,