OCR Output A. D. 14.] 29 OF TACITUS. dispose his father to listen to their petition. The sol­diers answered in humble terms: at their request,the younger BUesus, mentioned above, with Lucius,Apronius, a Roman knight in the train of Drusus,and Justus Catonius, a centurion of the first rank,were despatched as the delegates of the army. Inthe councils afterwards held by Drusus, variousopinions were entertained, and different measures pro­posed. To wait the return of the deputies, and mean­while to win the affections of the men by moderation,was the advice of many. Others were for immediatecoercion: " Lenity, they said, makes no impression"on the vulgar mind. The common men, when not"kept in subjection, are fierce and turbulent; yet ever"ready to crouch and bend under proper authority." It was now the time, while they were overwhelmed"with superstition, to infuse another fear, and teach"them to respect their general. Tho authors of"the late sedition ought to be made a public ex-" ample." Drusus, by the bent of his nature proneto vindictive measures, dosired that Percennius andVibulenus might be brought before him. By hisorders they were put to death; according to somewriters, in his own tent, and there buried; accordingto others, their bodies were thrown over the intrench-ments, a spectacle for public view. XXX. Diligent search was made for the, most ac­tive incendiaries: Some were found roving on theoutside of the lines, and instantly cut off by the cen­turions, or the prsetorian soldiers. Others were de­livered up to justice by their respective companies,as an earnest of their own conversion. The rigourof the winter, which set in earlier than usual, addedto the afflictions of the army. Heavy rains ensued;and fell with such violence, that the men could notventure from their tents. To meet in parties, andconverse with their comrades, was impossible. Thecolours, borne down by torrents that rushed throughthe camp, were with difficulty secured. Superstitionstill continued to fill the mind with terror. In everything that happened, imagination saw the anger ofthe gods: it was not without reason that the planets C2