OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. number of their brave and robust youth was exacted chap.from the faithless nation, as the most substantial XXLpledge of their future moderation. The subjects ofthe empire, who had so often experienced that theAlemanni could neither be subdued by arms norrestrained by treaties, might not promise themselvesany solid or lasting tranquillity: but they discovered,in the virtues of their young sovereign, the prospectof a long and auspicious reign. When the legionsclimbed the mountains, and scaled the fortifications,of the Barbarians, the valour of Gratian was distin­guished in the foremost ranks; and the gilt and va­riegated armour of his guards was pierced and shat- ,tered by the blows, which they had received in theirconstant attachment to the person of their sovereign.At the age of nineteen, the son of Valentinian seemedto possess the talents of peace and war; and his per-'sonal success against the Alemanni was interpretedas a sure presage of his Gothic triumphs *. While Gratian deserved and enjoyed the applause Valensof his subjects, the emperor Valens, who, at length, ™"*tcsthehad removed his court and army from Antioch, was ^°pS'378received by the people of Constantinople as the au- May 30—thor of the public calamity. Before he had reposed June n"himself ten days in the capital, he was urged, by thelicentious clamours of the Hippodrome, to marchagainst the Barbarians, whom he had invited into hisdominions; and the citizens, who are always brave ata distance from any real danger, declared, with confi­dence, that, if they were supplied with arms, they alonewould undertake to deliver the province from the ra­vages of an insulting foe. The vain reproaches of anignorant multitude hastened the downfall of the Ro­man empire; they provoked the desperate rashness * The full and impartial narrative of Ammianus (xxxi. 10.) may derive someadditional light from the Epitome of Victor, the Chronicle of Jerom, and theHistory of Orosius (1. vii. c 33. p. 552. edit. Havercamp).