OCR Output CHAP. LI. 395 Battle of It was incumbent on the Saracens to exert theI^ese fr1^ powers of their valour and enthusiasmNovember, against the forces of the emperor, who wastaught by repeated losses, that the rovers of the deserthad undertaken, and would speedily achieve, a regularand permanent conquest. From the provinces of Eu足rope and Asia, fourscore thousand soldiers were trans足ported by sea and land to Antioch and Caesarea: thelight troops of the army consisted of sixty thousandChristian Arabs of the tribes of Gassan. Under thebanner of Jabalah, the last of their princes, they marchedin the van; and it was a maxim of the Greeks, thatfor the purpose of cutting diamond, a diamond was themost effectual. Heraclius withheld his person from thedangers of the field; but his presumption, or perhapshis despondency, suggested a peremptory order, thatthe fate of the province and the war should be decidedby a single battle. The Syrians were attached to thestandard of Rome and of the cross; but the noble, thecitizen, the peasant, were exasperated by the injusticeand cruelty of a licentious host, who oppressed them assubjects, and despised them as strangers and aliens .d Areport of these mighty preparations was conveyed to theSaracens in their camp of Emesa; and the chiefs,though resolved to fight, assembled a council: the faithof Abu Obeidah would have expected on the samespot the glory of martyrdom; the wisdom of Caled ad足vised an honourable retreat to the skirts of Palestineand Arabia, where they might await the succours of theirfriends, and the attack of the unbelievers. A speedymessenger soon returned from the throne of Medina,with the blessings of Omar and Ali, the prayers of thewidows of the prophet, and a reinforcement of eightthousand Moslems. In their way they overturned a de足tachment of Greeks, and when they joined at Yermuk, * I have read somewhere in Tacitus, or Grolius, Subjectos habent tanquam suos,viles tanquam alienos. Some Greek officers ravished the wife, and murderedthe child, of their Syrian landlord; and Manuel smiled at hi; undutiful complaint.