OCR Output 166 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK It. Both the promoter and the opposer of the Agrarianlaw, had each his party among the people, to whomboth consuls were emulous, who should be most oblig­ing. Virginius declared he should have no objection tothe division proposed, were it confined to Roman citizensonly. Cassius's credit sunk greatly with the people, forthe kindnrss he showed in getting the allies included inthe Agrarian law; wherefore, to recover their goodgraces by another act of generosity, he ordered the peo­ple to be reimbursed in the money they had paid for thecorn imported from Sicily; but the people rejected itwith indignation, considering it in no other light, than asbounty-money to enlist them to serve under the ensignsof tyranny. Nay, such was their aversion at monarchy,that they spurned at his presents, as if ihey had swimmedin plenty. It is certain, that the moment he was out of office, hewas condemned and suffered accordingly. Some makehis father'the author of his punishment, who having triedhim at home, scourged and put him to death"; consecrat­ing, at the same time, all his effects to Ceres, and apply­ing the proceeds to the erection of a statue to that god­dess, with this inscription, " PRESENTED BY THE CASSIAN "FAMILY." I find in some authors, what seerns most probable, thata day was assigned him, by Kaeso Fabius and LuciusValerius the qusestors,* to answer to an impeachmentfor treason, when he was condemned by a sentence ofthe people, and his house demolished by public autho-rity. It stood where we have now the area before thetemple of Tellus. By whomsoever he was sentenced,whether by his father, or the people, it is universallyadmitted, that he suffered in the consulship of Ser. Cor­nelius, and Q. Fabius. * The business of these magistrates was to take care of thefinances and the public treasure, for which they were answerable,at the expiry of their office, which save them a right to appearas prosecutors, against sr.ch as attempted to misapply the public•property.