OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL gloried in the name of their Redeemer, he coun­tenanced, and perhaps enjoined, the use of the lesshonourable appellation of Galileans. He de­clared, that, by the folly of the Galilaeans, whom hedescribes as a sect of fanatics, contemptible to men,and odious to the gods, the empire had been reducedto the brink of destruction; and he insinuates in apublic edict, that a frantic patient might sometimesbe cured by salutary violence*. An ungenerousdistinction was admitted into the mind and counselsof Julian, that, according to the difference of theirreligious sentiments, one part of his subjects deservedhis favour and friendship, while the other was entitledonly to the common benefits that his justice couldnot refuse to an obedient people t. According to aprinciple, pregnant with mischief and oppression,the emperor transferred, to the pontiffs of his ownreligion, the management of the liberal allowancesfrom the public revenue, which had been granted tothe church by the piety of Constantine and his sons.The proud system of clerical honours and immunities,which had been constructed with so much art andlabour, was levelled to the ground; the hopes oftestamentary donations were intercepted by the ri­gour of the laws; and the priests of the Christiansect were confounded with the last and most igno­minious class of the people. But the will of thelegislator was not exempt from prejudice and passion;and it was the object of the insidious policy of Julian,to deprive the Christians of all the temporal honours * Fragment. Julian. p. 888, He derides the /iijiot raXiXawv (Epist. vii.), andso far loses sight of the principles of toleration, as to wish (epist,xlii.) J xo»th; *f* Ou yap /Ui Qtpts if i x*fiu{ipt* n tK§gup»nAvSpotf, 01 XI fttoiffti ave^tvvT a^avtuTOJCtv.These two lines, which Julian has changed and perverted, in the true spirit of abigot (Epist. xlix.), are taken from the speech of .fiolus, when he refuses togrant Ulysses a fresh supply of winds (Odyss. x. 73.) Libanius (Orat. Parent.c. lix. p. '286.) attempts to justify this partial behaviour, by an apology, in whichpersecution peeps through the mask of candour.