OCR Output an. 2992.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. This calamity happened in the six hun-dreth year of Noah's government or age, inthe second month,* called by the Macedo­nians, Dius; but by the Hebrews, Marhesvan;for so did they order their year in Egypt.But Moses appointed that Nisan, which is thesame with Xanthicus, should be the firstmonth; so that this month began the year, asto all the solemnities they observed in honourof God: although he preserved the originalorder of the months as to buying and selling,and other ordinary affairs. Now he says,that this flood began on the seventeenth dayof the before-mentioned month; and this wasone thousand five hundred and fifty-six yearsfrom Adam the first man; and the time iswritten down in our sacred books, thosefwho then lived having noted down, with greataccuracy, both the births and deaths of illus­trious men. For indeed Seth was born when Adam wasin his two hundred and thirtieth year: wholived nine hundred and thirty years. Sethbegat Enoch in his two hundred and fifthyear; who, when he had lived nine hundredand twelve years, delivered the governmentto Cain his son; whom he had at his hundredand ninetieth year. He lived nine hundredand five years. Cain, when he had lived ninehundred and ten years, had his son Malaleel,who was born in his hundred and seventiethyear. This Malaleel having lived eight hun­dred and ninety-five years, died, leaving hisson Jared, whom he begat when he was at hishundred and sixty-fifth year. He lived ninehundred and sixty-two years: and then hisson Enoch succeeded him; who was bornwhen his father was one hundred and sixty-two years old. Now he, when he lived threehundred and sixty-five years, departed andwent to God. Whence it is that they havenot written down his death. Now Mathusela,the son of Enoch, who was born to him whenhe was one hundred and sixty-five years old,had Lamech for his son, when he was one hundred and eighty-seven years of age; towhom he delivered the government when hehad retained it nine hundred and sixty-nineyears. Now Lamech, when he had governedseven hundred and seventy-seven years, ap­pointed Noah his son to be ruler of the peo­ple; who was born to Lamech when he wasone hundred and eighty-two years old, andretained the government nine hundred andfifty years. These years, collected together,make up the sum before set down. Butlet no one inquire into the deaths of thesemen, for they extended their lives all along,together with their children and grandchil­dren: but let him have regard to their births When God gave the signal, and it began torain, the water poured down forty intire days,till it became fifteen cubitsJ higher than theearth; which was the reason why there wereno greater number preserved, since they hadno place to fly to. When the rain ceased, thewater did but just begin to abate after onehundred and fifty days, that is, on the seven­teenth day of the seventh month. After thisthe Ark rested on the top of a certain moun­tain in Armenia; which, when Noah under­stood, he opened it, and seeing a small pieceof land about it, he continued quiet, and con­ceived some hopes of deliverance. But a fewdays afterward, when the water was decreasedto a greater degree, he sent out a raven, asdesirous to learn whether any other part ofthe earth was left dry by the water, and whe­ther he might go out of the Ark with safety;but the raven, finding all the land still over­flowed, returned to Noah again. But after^seven days"~Ee~ sent out a dove, to know thestate of the ground, which came back to himcovered with mud, and bringing an olivebranch. Hereby Noah learned that the earthwas become clear of the flood. So after hehad stayed seven more days, he sent the livingcreatures out of the Ark, and both he andhis family went out; when he also sacrificed * Josephus here truly determines, that the year at theflood began about the Autumnal Equinox. As to what dayof the month the flood began, our Hebrew and Samaritan,and, perhaps, Josephus's own copy, more rightly placed iton the 17th day instead of the 27th, as here; for Josephusagrees with them as to the distance of one hundred andfifty days to the 17th day of the Beventh month, as Gen.vii. ult. with vin. 3. t Josephus here takes notice, that these ancient gene- alogies were first set down by those that then lived, andfrom them were transmitted down to posterity: which Isuppose to be the true account of that matter; for there isno reason to imagine that men were not taught to read andwrite soon after they were taught to speak; and perhapsall by the Messiah himself, who, under the father, was thecreator or governor of mankind, and who frequently, inthose early days, appeared to them.X Gen. vii. 20.