OCR Output OF THE ItOMAN EMPIRE. 249 succeeded to the vacant possessions of a Roman chap.citizen*. xxxvil. The order of succession is regulated by nature, or introduc-at least by the general and permanent reason of the Hberty oflawgiver: but this order is frequently violated by thetestaments-arbitrary and partial wills which prolong the dominionof the testator beyond the grave. In the simple stateof society, this last use or abuse of the right ofproperty is seldom indulged: it was introduced atAthens by the laws of Solon; and the private testa­ments of the father of a family are authorised by thetwelve tables. Before the time of the decemvirs t, aRoman citizen exposed his wishes and motives to theassembly of the thirty curiae or parishes, and thegeneral law of inheritance was suspended by an oc­casional act of the legislature. After the permissionof the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgatedhis verbal or written testament in the presence of fivecitizens, who represented the five classes of the Ro­man people; a sixth witness attested their concur­rence; a seventh weighed the copper money, whichwas paid by an imaginary purchaser; and the estatewas emancipated by a fictitious sale and immediaterelease. This singular ceremony t, which excited thewonder of the Greeks, was still practised in the ageof Severus; but the praetors had already approved amore simple testament, for which they required theseals and signatures of seven witnesses, free from alllegal exception, and purposely summoned for theexecution of that important act. A domestic mon­arch, who reigned over the lives and fortunes of his • See the law of succession in the Institutes of Caius (1. ii. tit . viii. p. 130—144.), and Justinian (I. iii. tit. i—vi. with the (ireek version of Theophilus,p. 515—576. 588-600), the Pandects (1. xxxviii. tit . vi— xvii.), the Code (l.vi.tit. Iv—lx.), and the Novels (cxviii.). f Prior examples of testaments are perhaps fabulous. At Athens a childlessfather only could make a will (Plutarch, in Solone, tom. i. p. 164. See Isa;usand Jones). * The testament of Augustus is specified by Suetonius (in August . c. 101. inNeron. c . 4), who may be studied as a code of Roman antiquities. / r