OCR Output an. 1962.] 25 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now every part of the army had its owncommander, and when the battle was joined,the Assyrians were conquerors, and imposeda tribute upon the kings of the Sodomites,who submitted to this slavery twelve years;and so long they continued to pay their tri­bute; but on the thirteenth year they re­belled; and then the army of thje Assyrianscame upon them, under their commandersAmraphel, Arioch, Chedorlaomer,* and Ti-dal.f These kings had laid waste all Syria,and overthrown the offspring of the giants.And when they were come over against So­dom, they pitched their camp at the vale,called the Slimepits; for at that time therewere many pits in that place; but upon thedestruction of the city of Sodom, that vale be­came the lake Asphaltites, as it is called:however, concerning this lake, we shall speakmore presently. Now when the Sodomitesjoined battle with the Assyrians, and the fightwas very obstinate, many of them were killed,and the rest were carried captive; amongwhich captives were Lot, who had come toassist the Sodomites. CHAP. X. OF ABRAm's SUCCESSFUL ENGAGEMENT WITH THE ASSYRIANS,AND HIS RESCUE OF THE SODOMITE PRISONERS. WHEN Abram heard of their calamity,he was at once afraid for Lot, hiskinsman, and pitied the Sodomites, his friendsand neighbours; and thinking it proper toafford them assistance, he did not delay it,but marched hastily, and the fifth night fellupon the Assyrians near Dan; for that is thename of the other spring of Jordan; and be­fore they could arm themselves he slew themas they were in their beds; and others, whowere not yet gone to sleep, but were so in­toxicated they could not fight, ran away.Abram pursued after them till, on the second day, he drove them in a body unto Hoba,J aplace belonging to Damascus; and therebydemonstrated that victory does not dependon multitude, and the number of hands, butthat the alacrity and courage of soldiers over­come the most numerous bodies of men:while he got the victory over so great anarmy with no more than three hundred andeighteen of his servants, and three of hisfriends. But all those that fled returned homeingloriously. So Abram, when he had savedthe captive Sodomites, who had been takenby the Assyrians, and Lot, also, his kinsman,returned home in peace. Now the king of Sodom met him at a cer­tain place, which they called the King's Dale,where Melchisedec, king of the city of Sa­lem, received him. That name signifies, therighteous king: and such he was without dis­pute, insomuch, that on his account, he wasmade the priest of God. However, theyafterwards called Salem, Jerusalem. Nowthis Melchisedec supplied Abram's army ina hospitable manner, and gave them pro­visions in abundance: and as they were feast­ing, he began to praise him, and to bless Godfor subduing his enemies under him. Butwhen Abram gave him the tenth part of hisprey, he accepted of the gift. But the Kingof Sodom desired Abram to take the prey;but intreated that he might have those menrestored to him whom Abram had saved fromthe Assyrians because they belonged to him.But Abram would not do so; nor would makeany other advantage of that prey, than whathis servants had eaten; but still insisted thathe should afford a part to his friends who hadassisted him in the battle. The first of themwas called Eschol, and the others Enner andMambre. God commended his virtue and said,"Thou shalt not, however lose the rewardsthou hast deserved to receive by such glo­ * We no where in profane history meet with the nameof Chedorlaomer, nor with any of those names of the kingswho were confederate with him. The reason hereof is,that Ctesias X. from whom the profane historians take thenames of these kings, did not use their original Assyriannames in his history, but rather such as he found in thePersian records. However, since the date of this trans­action falls four years before the death of Ninyas, thereare good grounds to infer, that Ninyas, who then lived inPersia, was the Chedorlaomer of Moses, at that time thebead of the Assyrian monarchy: that Amraphel was his deputy at Babylon in Shinar: and Arioch and Tidal hisdeputies over some other adjacent countries. For it isremarkable, that Ninyas, was the first who appointed un­der him such deputies: nor is there any absurdity in Mo­ses to call them kings, since it is observable, from whatIsaiah hinted afterwards, chap. x. 8. that the Assyrianboasted his deputy princes to be equal to royal governors.Are not my princes altogether kings? Shackford's Connec­tion, Vol. II. 1. 6. B. t Gen. xiv. 1. j Gen. xiv. 16.