OCR Output StrRREXTIN'UM PBOM. 1049 . SUSA. WUttNTUnm PBOM. [Minkkvak Pmk.] iiKKNTL'M (2u#frrdV, Strab.; 2oup«ir«rp. .: £tk. Sarrentinus: Sorrento), a city on the%i •>{ Campania, on the southern bide of theiaiful gulf called the Crater or Bay of Naples,-J 7 milet from the headland called Minervae %.mtorimn, which forms the southern boundaryit bar. We have very little information as toi «vlr hihtiry: its name is never mentioned till'e the feanan conquest of Campania. Traditions-ni ascribed the foundation of Surrentum to themi, hot whether it was a colony from Cumue,u tmrlier Greek settlement, we have no account:4 there doe* not ajipear any evidence that it hud,'ouoy places in this part of Italy, a distinctly*t eJiamcter in historical times. Strabo calls it■anpanian city (Strab, v. p. 247), hut this may7 jniably refer to its not being one of thoseTpird by the Picentinea. According to them Cotaiarum a prvat part of its Unitary, andTMf* the town i use If, was considered in a certainst •» consecrated to Minerva, on account of its3u<ity to her celebrated temple on the adjoining•notary, and was for that reason occupied byNfc trUlers {Lib. CoL p. 236). It neverthelessv.rt-i a partial colony under Augustus {lb.), but ■ j: attaining the rank or character of a Culouia.~T-u5 inscriptions record its existence as ae.-.jaJ town under the liomaii Empire, and it is■ oi by all the geographers: but its name is'■J mentioned in history (Strab. /. c.\ Plin. iii. 5.>: Met ii. 4 § 9; PtoL iii. 1. § 7 ; Orell. Inter.U; Mom msec Inter. H. X. 8111- 2125). Itt, however, resorted to by wealthy Romans on■»it of its beautiful scenery and delightfulute; among others Pollius Felix, the friend ofnot. had a rilla there, which the poet has•rated at conaiderable length in one of his minerai {Stir. ii. 2). We are told also that Agrippaannua, when he 6rst incurred the displeasure ofpu>Tus, wu ordered to retire to Surrentum,& be was consigned to more complete banish-~: is the island of Planasia (Suet. Aug. 65).tet the chief celebrity of Surrentum was deriveda i:s wine, which eojoyed a high reputation at•t, and is repeatedly alluded to by the poets oftropins. It was considered very wholesome, and o consequence recommended by physician* to• Ascents and invalids. Tiberius indeed is saidat* declared that it owed its reputation entirelybe physicians, and was in reality no better thantar. It did not attain its maturity till it hud> kepi 25 yeMrs (l'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8; Athenae. i.16; Ovid. Jfct xt. 710; Martial, xiii. 110;. Siht. iii. 5. 102; Strab. v. p. 243; Colum. 1Lk 2. § I " .. We learn from Martial si ■• (xiii.. xiv. 102) that Surrentum was noted for itstry. The lulls which produced the celebratedi "ere those which encircle the plain in which:ity was situateu. (" Sarrentini onlles," Ovid. Met,k and separate ft from the gulf of Postdoitia onaher ude These hills form a part of the ridgei descends from the lofty mountain group ofMamie S. Angelo between Castellamare undand U continued as far as the headlandHte Capri This point, now called the f'untai Campanellti^lht ancient Promontorium M.-ae, was known also by the name of Surrentinumanctorinm, from its close connection with thei of Surrentum (Tnc. Ann. iv. 67; Stat. Silv. 165). The celebrated sanctuary of the Sirens, from which Surrentum itself was supposed to havederived its name, seems to have been situated(though the expressions of Strabo are not very clear)between this headland and the town (Strab. v. p.247). But the islands of the Sirens (SirenusaoInsulac) were certainly the rocks now called LiGalli, on the opposite side of the promontory. Thevilla of PolHus, which is described by Statius aslooking down upon the deep Gulf of Puteoli, stoodupon the headland now called Capo di Sorrento, onthe W. of the town, separating the Bay of Surreutofrom that of 3/oara; extensive ruins of it are stillvisible, and attest the accuracy of the poet's descrip­tion. (Stat. Silv. ii. 2; Swinburne's Travels, vol. i.pp. 88—90.) The other ruins still visible at Sorrento and in itsneighbourhood are of no great interest: they presentnumerous fragments of buildings of imperial times,to some of which the names of a temple of Hercules,temple of Neptune, &c. have been applied by localantiquarians, with no other foundation than thefact that we learn from Statius the existence oftemples to those divinities at Surrentum. The mostconsiderable relic of antiquity is a Piscina of largedimensions, which is in such good preservation thatit still serves to supply the inhabitants with water.The modern town of Sorrento is a nourishing andpopulous place witli a population of above 6000souls: it is much resorted to by strangers on accountof its mild and delicious climate, for which it isalready extolled by Silius Italicus ('*Zephyro Sur­rentum molle salabri,H Sil. Ital. v. 466 ) [K. H. B-] SUSA {ra 2ovoa, Aesebyl. Pert. 535, 730;Herod, i. 188; Xen. Cur. viii. 6. § 8, &c; in 0. T.Shuuiian, Esther, i. 2; Nekemiah, i. 1; Daniel,viii. 2), the chief city of the province of Susiana,on the eastern bank of the Choaspes (Kerlhah).There was considerable doubt among the ancientwriters as to the exact position of this celebratedcity. Thus Arrian (vii. 7), Pliny (vi. 27. s. 31),and Daniel (viii. 2) place it on the Kulaeus (Ulaiin Daniel): while from other authors (Strab. xv. p.728) it may be gathered that it was situated on theChoaspes. (For the probable cause of this confusion,see CHOASPES.) We may add, however, that, ac­cording to Curt ills, Alexander on his way fromBabylon had to cross the Choaspes before he couldreach Suss (v, 2), and that the same inferencemay be drawn from the account of Aristagoras ofthe relative position of the places in Penis in i i.address to Cleo-nenes. (Herod, v. 52.) It appearsto have been an early tradition of the country thatSum was founded by Dareius the son of Jlystaspet*(Plin. /. c); and it is described by Aeschylus asf*«V aarv XovoiSot {Pers. 119). By others it istermed M<uroVcio* &arv (Herod, v. 54), and itsorigin is attributed to Memnon, the son of Tithonus.(Strab. /. c; Steph. B. s. v.) The name is said tohave been derived from a native Persian word Susan(meaning lily), from the great abundance of thoseplants ir. that neighbourhood. (Steph. B. /. v.;Athen. xii. p. 513, ed. Cassaub.) Atheuaeuaalso confirms the account of the excellence ofthe climate of Susa (/. c). It may be remarkedthat the word lovoivov was well known as appliedto an unguent extracted from lilies. (Dioscor.iii. c. de lilio; Athen. xv. p. 609; Etymol. M.$. v. TiivoiMov). The city was said to have been120 stadia in circumference (Strab. L c ), and tohave been surrounded by a wall, built like that ofBabylon of burnt brkk. (Strab. L fcj Pans. iv. 31.