OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. food. The incessant rapine of their neighbours compell­ed them to bury this treasure in the earth; but on theappearance of a stranger, it was freely imparted by a peo­ple, whose unfavourable character is qualified by the epi­thets of chaste, patient, and hospitable. As their supremegod, they adored an invisible master of the thunder.The rivers and the nymphs obtained their subordinatehonours, and the popular worship was expressed in vowsand sacrifice. The Sclavonians disdained to obey a des­pot, a prince, or even a magistrate; but their experiencewas too narrow, their passions too headstrong, to com­pose a system of equal law or general defence. Somevoluntary respect was yielded to age and valour* buteach tribe or village existed as a separate republic, andall must be persuaded where none could be compelled.They fought on foot, almost naked, and, except an un­wieldy shield, without any defensive armour: their wea­pons of offence were a bow, a quiver of small poisonedarrows, and a long rope, which they dexterously threwfrom a distance, and entangled their enemy in a runningnoose. In the field, the Sclavonian infantry was dan­gerous by their speed, agility, and hardiness: they swam,they dived, they remained under water, drawing theirbreath through a hollow cane; and a river or lake wasoften the scene of their unsuspected ambuscade. Butthese were the achievements of spies or stragglers; themilitary art was unknown to the Sclavonians; their namewas obscure, and their conquests were inglorious.p I have marked the faint and general outline of the ™Sclavonians and Bulgarians, without attempting to de­fine their intermediate boundaries, which were not ac­curately known, or respected, by the barbarians them- P For the name and nation, the situation and manners, of the Sclayonians, see theoriginal evidence of the sixth century, in Procopius, (Goth. lib. 2. e. 26. lib. 3. o. 14.)and the emperor Mauritius or Mamice. (Stratagemat. lib. 2. c. 5. apud Mascou, An-Dotat. 31.) The Stratagems of Maurice have been printed only, as 1 understand, at ,the end of Scheffer's edition of Arrian's Tactics, at Upsal, 1661, (Fabric. Bibliot.Graeo. lib. 4. c. 8. torn. 3. p. 278.) a scarce, and hitherto, to me, an inaccessiblebook.