OCR Output 262 NOTES ON THE as he only considered the sensible Ocean; and Mr. Wood discoverssome sagacity in conjecturing, that Ocean formerly had a differ­ent meaning from what it has at present. For, when Homer callsOcean a river, he alludes to the deity of this name, who belongsto that order of gods which is called intellectual, and of whichSaturn is the summit; who is a fontal deity myeu*; 9to;, andis therefore very properly denominated a river, as giving birthto theprocej/swn of the gods into the sensible universe, and being,according to his last, subsistence, the source of the sea and theall-various streams that flow upon the earth. For every cause isthat primarily, which its effect is secondarily: and hence causeswere assigned by ancient theologists the. fame names with theireffects. Concerning this deity, Proclus in his MSS. Scholia onthe Cratylus observes as follows: "Ocean is the cause to all thegods of acute and vigorous energy, and bounds the distinctionsof the first, middle, and last orders; converting himself to him­self, and to his proper principles, through swiftness of intellect,but moving all things from himself to energies accommodated totheir natures; perfecting their powers, and causing them to pos­sess a never-failing subsistence.'' And in his Commentaries onthe, Timæus, p. 296, he observes of this deity, considered ac­cording to his sublunary subsistence, "that he is the cause ofmotion, progression and power, conferring vigour and prolificabundance on intellectual lives, but swiftness of energy andpurity in generations to fouls, and facility of motion to bodies.That considered as subsisting in tbe gods (i. e. in sublunarygods) he comprehends a motive and providential cause: but inangels he comprehends an unfolding and intellectual swiftness:in dæmons, efficacious power: and in heroes he is the supplieros a magnificent and efficacious life. Besides this, he imparts toevery element the characteristic of his nature. Thus, with re­spect to air, he produces all the mutation of aerial natures, and3s, as Aristotle observes, the cause of the circle of the meteors. But