OCR Output A. D.20.], 141 OF TACITUS. sorrow, varied only by the contrast between the at­tendants of Agrippina, and those who now receivedthe first impression. The former appeared with alanguid air; while the latter, yielding to the sensationof the moment, broke out with all the vehemence of ,recent grief. II. Tiberius had ordered to Brundusium two prse­torian cohorts. The magistrates of Calabria, Apulia,and Campania, had it in command to pay everymark of honour to the memory of the emperor's son.The urn was borne on the shoulders of the centurionsand tribunes, preceded by the colours, not displayedwith military pomp, but drooping in disorder, with allthe negligence of grief. The fasces were inverted. Inthe colonies through which they passed, the populacein mourning, and the knights in their purple robes,threw into the flames rich perfumes, spices and gar­ments, with other funeral offerings, according to theability of the place. Even from distant towns thepeople came in crowds to meet the procession; theypresented victims; they erected altars to the gods ofdeparted souls, and by their lamentations markedtheir sense of the public calamity. Drusus advancedas far as Terracina, accompanied by Claudius, thebrother of Germanicus, and the children of the de­ceased prince that had been left at Rome. The con­suls, Marcus Valerius Messala, and Marcus AureliusCotta, who a little before had entered on their ma­gistracy, with the whole senate, and a numerous bodyof citizens, went out to meet the melancholy train.The road was crowded; no order kept, no regularprocession; they walked, and wept, as inclinationprompted. Flattery had no share in the business:where the court rejoiced in secret, men could notweep themselves into favour. Tiberius indeed dis­sembled, but he could not deceive. Through the thindisguise the malignant heart was seed. HI. Neither the emperor nor his mother appearedin public. They imagined, perhaps, that to be seenin a state of affliction might derogate front their dig­nity; or, the better reason was, that a number ofprying eyes might unmask their inmost sentiments.