OCR Output B. II. YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. and others apprehensive of falling under their subjection.'—With such preparations and such dispositions did they runinto the war. The states in league with either party, upon the breakingout of the war, were these. In confederacy with the Lace­daemonians, were all Peloponnesians within the Isthmus, ex­cept the Argives and Achaeans, for these had treaties subsist­ing with both parties. But of the Achaeans, the Pellenianssingly were the first who went over, though they were after­wards joined by all the rest. Without Peloponnesus werethe Megareans, Locrians, Boeotians, Phocians, Ambraciots,Leucadians, Anactorians. Of these they were supplied withshipping by the Corinthians, Megareans, Sicyonians, Pel­lenians, Eleans, Ambraciots, Leucadians; with horse bythe Boeotians, Phocians, Locrians : and the other states fur­nished them with foot. This was the confederacy of the Lacedaemonians. With the Athenians were the Chians, Lesbians, Plataeans, the Messenians of Naupactus, most ofthe Acarnanians, the Corcyreans, Zacynthians, and otherstates tributary to them in so many nations: Namely, themaritime people of Caria, the Dorians* that border upon theCarians, Ionia, Hellespont, the cities on the coast of Thrace,all the islands situated to the east between Peloponnesus andCrete, and all the Cyclades, except Melos and Thera. Ofthese, they were supplied with shipping by the Chians, Les­bians, Corcyreans ; the rest supplied them with foot and withmoney. This was the alliance on both sides, and the abilityfor the war. The Lacedaemonians, immediately after the attempt onPlataea, sent circular orders to the states both within andwithout Peloponnesus, to draw their quotas of aid together,and get every thing in readiness for a foreign expedition, asintending to invade Attica. When all was ready, they as­sembled on the day appointed, with two-thirds of the force • These were the Dorians, who were seated in the islands of Rhodes.Cqi, and Cnidui, according to the Schotintt.