OCR Output 372 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. ' both citizens and foreigners. The crowd of these, so sooqas ever the route was pointed homewards, were, exceptinga few, gone speedily off. But, when they were drawn up inthe order of battle, and were every moment expecting thecharge, Hippocrates the general shewing himself in thefront of the Athenians, animated them with the followingharangue : " THE admonition, Athenians, I intend to give you will" be very concise, but such a one is sufficient to the brave :" I pretend not to encourage Athenians, but merely to re-" mind them of their duty. Let the thought be a stranger to" every heart amongst you, that we are going to plunge into" needless hazards in the territory of a foe. Be it the terri-" tory of a foe, yet in it you must fight for the security of" your own. And, if we conquer now, the Peloponnesians," will never again presume, without the aid of the Boeotian" horse, to repeat their inroads into Attica. By one battle" therefore you acquire this, and secure your own land from" future annoyance. Charge therefore your enemies, as you" ought, with a spirit worthy of the State of Athens, that" State which every soul amongst you boasts to be the first" of Greece ; and worthy of your great forefathers, who" formerly at Oenophyta, under the conduct of Myronides," defeated these people in the field, and possessed for a time" all Bocotia as their prize." Hippocrates had not gone along half the line encouragingthem in this manner, when he was compelled to desist andleave the greater part of his army unaddressed. For theBoeotians, to whom Pagondas also had given but a short ex­hortation and had this moment finished the paean of attack,were coining down from the eminence. The Athenians ad­vanced to meet them, and both sides came running to thecharge. The skirts of both armies could not come to an en­gagement, as some rivulets that lay between stopped themequally on both sides. The rest closed firm in a stubbornfight, and with mutual thrusts of their shields. The left