OCR Output 94 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. Gracchus. son; anticipating that the election would once more be dis­turbed by the veto, he made provision for expelling 4headherents of the aristocracy by force from the place ofassembly in front of the Capitoline temple. So the secondday of election came on; the votes fell as on the precedingday, and again the veto was exercised; the tumult began.The burgesses dispersed; the elective assembly was practi­cally dissolved; the Capitoline temple was closed; it wasrumoured in the city, now that Tiberius had deposed all thetribunes, now that he had resolved to continue his magis­tracy without re-election.Death of The senate assembled in the temple of Fidelity, close by the temple of Jupiter; the bitterest opponents of Gracchuswere the speakers in the sitting; when Tiberius moved hishand towards his forehead to signify to the people amidst thewild tumult that his head was in danger, it was said that hewas already summoning the people to adorn his brow with theregal chaplet. The consul Scaevola was urged to have thetraitor put to death at once. When that temperate man, byno means averse to reform in itself, indignantly refused theequally irrational and barbarous request, the consular PubliusScipio Nasica, a harsh and vehement aristocrat, summonedthose who shared his views to arm themselves as they couldand to follow him. Almost none of the country people had!come into town for the elections; the people of the citytimidly gave way, when they saw the nobles rushing alongwith fury in their eyes, and legs of benches and clubs in their"Bands. Gracchus attempted with a few attendants toescape. But in his flight he fell on the slope of the Capitol,and was killed by a blow on the temples from the bludgeonof one of his furious pursuers—Publius Satureius andLucius Rufus afterwards contested the infamous honour—before the statues of the seven kings at the temple of Fide­lity; with him three hundred others were slain, none ofthem by weapons of iron. When evening had come on, thebodies were thrown into the Tiber; Gaius vainly entreatedthat the corpse of his brother might be granted to him forburial. Such a day had never before been seen by Rome.The party-strife, which lasted for more than a century,during the first social crisis had led to no such catastropheas that with which the second began. The better portionof the aristocracy might shudder, but they could no longerrecede. They had no choice save to abandon a great