OCR Output 524 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. suspecting no harm, complied with his pro­posal: while Herod did not give his consentto what was done, because of the perfidious-ness of these Barbarians: but desired Pha-saelus rather to fight those that were comeinto the city. So both Hyrcanus and Phasaelus went onthe ambassage. But Pacorus left with Herodtwo hundred horsemen, and ten men, whowere called the free men; and conductedthe others on their journey. And when theywere in Galilee, the governors of the citiesthere met them in their arms. Barzapharnesalso received them at first with cheerfulness,and made them presents: though he after­ward conspired against them. And Phasa­elus, with hie horsemen, were conducted tothe sea side. But when they heard that An-tigonus had promised to give the Parthians athousand talents, and five hundred women,to assist him against them, they soon had asuspicion of the Barbarians. Moreover therewas one who informed them that snares werelaid for them by night, while a guard cameabout them secretly; and they had then beenseized upon, had they not waited for theseizure of Herod by the Parthians, that wereabout Jerusalem, lest, upon the slaughter ofHyrcanus and Phasaelus, he should have anintimation of it, and escape out of theirhands. And these were the circumstancesthey were now in: and they saw who theywere that guarded them. Some persons, in­deed, would have persuaded Phasaelus toflee away immediately on horseback, and notstay any longer. And there was one Ophel-lius who, above all the reBt, was earnest forhim to do so. For he had heard of thistreachery from Saramalla, the richest of allthe Syrians at that time: who also promisedto provide him ships to carry him off: for thesea was just by them. But he had no mindto desert Hyrcanus, nor to bring his brotherinto danger. But he went to Barzapharne6,and told him, he did not act justly, when hemade such a contrivance: for that if hewanted money, he would give him more thanAntigonus. And besides, that it was a hor­rible thing to slay those that came to himupon the security of their oaths; and thatwhen they had done them no injury. Butthe Barbarians swore to him. that there wasno truth in any of his suspicions: but that he Mas troubled with nothing but false suppo-sals; and then went away to Pacorus. But as soon as he was gone away, somemen came and bound Hyrcanus and Phasa­elus: while Phasaelus greatly reproached theParthians for their perjury. However, thatbutler, who was sent against Herod, had it incommand to get him without the walls of thecity, and seize upon him. But messengershad been sent by Phasaelus to inform Herodof the perfidiousness of the Parthians. Andwhen he knew that the enemy had seizedupon them, he went to Pacorus, and to themost potent of the Parthians, as to the lordsof the rest. But, although they knew thewhole matter, they dissembled with him in adeceitful way; and said, that he ought to goout with them before the walls, and meetthose who were bringing him his letters: forthat they were not taken by his adversaries,but were coming to give him an account ofthe good success Phasaelus had had. Heroddid not give credit to what they said, for hehad heard that his brother was seized uponby others also. And *the daughter of Hyr­canus, whom he had espoused, also advisedhim not to credit them; which made him stillmore suspicious of the Parthians: for al­though other people did not give heed toher, yet did he believe her, as a woman ofvery great wisdom. Now while the Parthians were in consulta­tion what was fit to be done, (for they didnot think it proper to make an open attemptupon a person of his character,) and whilethey put off the determination to the nextday, Herod was under great disturbance ofmind: and rather inclining to believe the re­ports he had heard about his brother andthe Parthians, than to give heed to what wassaid on the other side, he determined, that,when the evening came on, he would makeuse of it for his flight, and not make anylonger delay, as if the dangers from the enemywere not yet certain. He therefore removedwith the armed men whom he had with him;and set his wives upon the beasts: as also hismother, and sister, and her whom he wasabout to marry, Mariamne, the daughter ofAlexander, the son of Aristobulus; with hermother, the daughter of Hyrcanus, and his * Alexandra.