OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. bly deferred till the return of the younger brother to Rome, wherea triumph was decreed to the young emperors, for the glorious suc­cess of the Persian war ,Co. It is uncertain whether they intended todivide between them the administration, or the provinces, of theempire; but it is very unlikely that their union would haveproved of any long duration. The jealousy of power must havebeen inflamed by the opposition of characters. In the most corruptof times, Carinus was unworthy to live: Numerian deserved toreign in a happier period. His affable manners and gentle vir­tues secured him, as soon as they became known, the regard andaffections of the public. He possessed the elegant accomplishments of apoet and orator, which dignify as well as adorn the humblest and themost exalted station. His eloquence, however it was applauded by thesenate, was formed not so much on the model of Cicero, as on thatof the modern declaimers ; but in an age very far from being destituteof poetical merit, he contended for the prize with the most celebratedof his contemporaries, and still remained the friend of his rivals;a circumstance which evinces either the goodness of his heart, or thesuperiority of his genius lo'. But the talents of Numerian wererather of the contemplative, than of the active kind. When hisfather's elevation reluctantly forced him from the shade of retire­ment, neither his temper ncr his pursuits had qualified him for thecommand of armies. His constitution was destroyed by the hard­ships of the Persian war ; and he had contracted, from the heat ofthe climate *01, such a weakness in his eyes, as obliged him, in thecourse of a long retreat, to confine himself to the solitude and dark­ness of a tent or litter. The administration of all affairs, civil aswell as military, was devolved on Arrius Aper, the Prætorian præ-fect, who, to the power of his important office, added the honourof being father-in-law to Numerian. The imperial pavilion wasstrictly guarded by his most trusty adherents; and during manyVol. I. Z z daysi