OCR Output 316 LIVY. had shut up there were set at liberty. They next pulleddown and mutilated the statues of the king; and then,on a signal being given for a retreat, reimbarked andreturned to Piraus, from whence they had set out. Ifthere had been a sufficient number of Roman soldiersto have kept possession of Chalcis, without strippingAthens of a proper garrison, that city and the com足mand of the Euripus would have been a most importantadvantage at the commencement of the war; for as thepass of Thermopylae is the principal barrier of Greeceby land, so is the strait of the Euripus by sea. 24. Philip was then at Demetrias, and as soon as thenews arrived there of the calamity which had befallenthe city of his allies, although it was too late to carryassistance to those who were already ruined, yet anxi足ous to accomplish what was next to assistance, revenge,he set out instantly with five thousand foot lightlyequipped, and three hundred horse. With a speedalmost equal to that of racing, he hastened to Chalcis,not doubting but that he should be able to surprise theRomans. Finding himself disappointed, and that hiscoming answered no other end than to give him amelancholy view of the smoking ruins of that friendlycity, (so few being left, that they were scarcely suffi足cient to bury those who had fallen by the sword of theenemy,) with the same rapid haste which he had usedin coming, he crossed the Euripus by the bridge, andled his troops through Boeotia to Athens, in hopes thata similar attempt might be attended by a similar issue:and he would have succeeded, had not a scout (one ofthose whom the Greeks call day-runners,i because theyrun through a journey of great length in one day), des足crying from his post of observation the king's army inits march, set out at midnight, and arrived before themat Athens. The same sleep, and the same negligence,prevailed there which had proved the ruin of Chalcis afew days before. Roused, however, by the alarmingintelligence, the pretor of the Athenians, and Dioxip- Hemerodromoi.