OCR Output C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 53 he were ready to smite him; but he called to one of them byname, and looking like a general to another, and taking athird by the hand, and making a fourth ashamed of himself,by praying him to forbear, and being in this condition dis­tracted with various passions (as he well might in the greatdistress he was then in,) he kept off every one of their swordsfrom killing him, and was forced to do like such wild beastsas arc encompassed about on every side, who always turnthemselves against those that last touched them. Nay, somoof their right hands were debilitated by the reverence theybare to their general in these his fatal calamities, and theirswords dropped out of their hands, and not a few of themthere were who, when they aimed to smite him with theirswords, they were not thoroughly cither willing or able todo it. 7. However, in this extreme distress, he was not destituteof his usual sagacity; but trusting himself to the providenceof God, he put his life into hazard [in the manner following.]"And now," said he, "since it is resolved among you thatyou will die, come on, let us commit our mutual deaths todetermination by lot. He whom the lot falls to first, let himbe killed by him that hath the second lot, and thus fortuneshall make its progress through us all; nor shall any of usperish by his own right hand; for it would be unfair, if, whenthe rest are gone, somebody should repent and save himself."This proposal appeared to them to be very just; and whenhe had prevailed with them to determine this matter by lots,he drew one of the lots for himself also. He who had thefirst lot laid his neck bare to him that had the next, as sup­posing that the general would die among them immediately;for they thought death, if Josephus might but die with them,sweeter than life: yet was he with another left to the last,whether we must say it happened so by chance, or whetherby the providence of God. And as he was very desirous,neither to be condemned by the lot, nor, if he had been leftto the last, to imbrue his right hand in the blood of his coun­trymen, he persuaded him to trust his fidelity to him, and tolive as well as himself. 5*