OCR Output 150 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. have in this, that whereas the Jews do not make use of* oil pre­pared by foreigners, they receive a certain sum of money fromthe proper officers belonging to their exercises as the valuewould have deprived them of, in the last war, Mucianus, whowas then president of Syria, preserved it to them. And whenthe people of Alexandria and of Antioch did after that, at thetune that Vespasian and Titus his son governed the habitableearth, pray that these privileges of citizens might be taken away,they did not obtain their request. In which behaviour anyone may discern the f equity and generosity of the Romans, es­pecially of Vespasian and Titus, who, although they had beenat a great deal of pains in the war against the Jews, and wereexasperated against them, because they did not deliver up theirweapons to them, but continued the war to the very last, yetdid not they take away any of their forementioned privilegesbelonging to them as citizens, but restrained their anger; andovercame the prayers of the Alexandrians and Antiochians, whowere a very powerful people, insomuch that they did not yieldto them, neither out of their favour to those people, nor out oftheir old grudge at those whose wicked opposition they had sub­dued in the war; nor would they alter any of the ancient favoursgranted to the Jews, but said, that those who had borne armsagainst them, and fought them, had suffered punishment already,and that it was not just to deprive those that had not offended ofthe privileges they enjoyed. 2. We also know that Marcus Agrippa was of the like dis­position towards the Jews: For when the people of Ionia werevery angry at them, and besought Agrippa, that they, and theyonly, might have those privileges of citizens which Antiochus,the grandson of Seleucus (who by the Greeks was called theGod,) had bestowed on them; and desired that if the Jewswere to be joint-partakers with them, they might be obliged toworship the gods they themselves worshipped: but when thesematters were brought to the trial, the Jews prevailed, and ob­ * The use of oil was much greater, and the donatives of it much more valuablein Judea, and the neighbouring countries, than it is amongst us. It was also, in thedays of Josephus, thought unlawful for Jews to make use of any oil that wasprepared by heathens, perhaps on account of some superstitions intermixed withits preparation by those heathens. When therefore the heathens were to makethem a donative of oil, they paid them money instead of it. See Of the War, B.II. ch. xxii. sect. 2. vol. III. the Life of Josephus sect. 13. vol. III. and Hudson'snote on the place before us. '(' This, and the like great and just characters, of the justice and equity, and ge­nerosity of the old Romans, both to the Jews and other conquered nations, affordsus a very good reason why Almighty God, upon the rejection of the Jews for theirwickedness, chose them for his people, and first established Christianity in thatempire. Of which matter, see Josepbus here, sect. 2. as also Antiq. B. XIV. ch.X. sect. 21, 23. B. XVI. chap. 2. sect. 4.