OCR Output 59S THE DECLINE AND FALL ruins of Spalatro are not less expressive of the decline of the arts,than of the greatness of the Roman empire in the time of Diocle­tian '". If such was indeed the state of architecture, we must na­turally believe that painting and sculpture had experienced a stillmore sensible decay. The practice of architecture is directed by afew general and even mechanical rules. But sculpture, and aboveall, painting, propose to themselves the imitation not only of theforms of nature, but of the characters and passions of the humanfoul. In those sublime arts, the dexterity of the hand is of littleavail, unless it is animated by fancy, and guided by the most cor­rect taste and observation.Of letters. It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the civil distractions ofthe empire, the license of the soldiers, the inroads of the barbari­ans, and the progress of despotism, had proved very unfavourableto genius and even to learning. The succession of Illyrian princesrestored the empire, without restoring the sciences. Their mili­tary education was not calculated to inspire them with the love ofletters; and even the mind of Diocletian, however active andcapacious in business, was totally uninformed by study or specu­lation. The professions of law and physic are of such commonuse and certain prosit, that they will always secure a sufficientnumber of practitioners, endowed with a reasonable degree of abili­ties and knowledge; but it does not appear that the students inthose two faculties appeal to any celebrated masters who flourishedwithin that period. The voice of poetry was silent. History wasreduced to dry and confused abridgments, alike destitute of amuse­ment and instruction. A languid and affected eloquence was stillretained in the <pay and service of the emperors, who encouragednot any arts except those which contributed to the gratification oftheir pride, or the defence of their powerThenewPla- The declining age of learning and of mankind, is marked,w'"° however, by the rife and rapid progress of the new Platonicians. The school of Alexandria silenced those of Athens; and the ancient sects