OCR Output SAMOS. SAMOS. 899 at the other places; whence the names ofTillages in the island, Metelinous,and Vourlote* (Vaurla giving the■ana to sane islands at the entrance of the bay ofnrrca). Samoa was much injured by the ravages1 Moraaai. In Toornefort's time the largest parttii» island was the property of ecclesiastics; and - namber of convents and nunneries was con-irraUe. He reckoned the population to be 12,000;• is is estimated at 50,000, nearly the wholels£ Christian. Samoa performed a distinguished -n the War of Independence. The Turks oftento effect a landing; the defences con-by the Samiotes are still risible on theaa; ead the Greek fleet watched no point moreTfiily than this important island. On the ] 7thAonut, 1824, a curious repetition of the battleFormidable preparations foron the island were made by Tahir-Pacha,20.000 land-troops encamped on the pro­of Myotic. Canaris set fire to a frigate-- Cap* Trogillium, and in the confusion which«il tha troops fled, and Tahir-Pacha sailedrr. At this time the Logotbete Lycurgus wasww of the island " in the true classical sense.V word," as is observed by Ross, who describescaetle built by Lycurgus on the ruins of ata*ral fort, adding that be was then (1841) re-re, with the rank of Colonel at Athens, and thataaa well remembered and much regretted inas*. Tliis island was assigned to Turkey by thety which fixed the limits of modem Greece;s> coatiaoed to make struggles for its indepen-am. Since 1835 it has formed a separate Boy-onder a Pbanariot Greek named Stephenvuisa, woo resides in Constantinople with the'*4 * Prince of Samoa," and sends a governor asi^poty. Besides other rights, the island has aLraie near exhibiting the white Greek cross on a'rrocEad, with a narrow red stripe to denote de­face* on tha Porte, It does not appear, how-; that this government of Greeks by a Greek Soitan U conducive to contentment.V» p<-e»es>t inhabitants of this fruitful island areto be mora esteemed for their industry than'They export silk, wool, wine, oil, andIf Use word Sammtt is derived from thist. it ss probable that silk has been an object ofrsitislry for a considerable time. Pliny (xiii. - tsirsuo* pomegranates among its fruits. Atir—vct ©Uy the beans of the carob-tree are where a cheap spirit for theis made from them. We mighttmr frt.cn the name of Mount Ainpelus, that the•4 the island was celebrated in the ancient•j bat sta«rh a conclusion would be in directr»t to the words of Strabo, who notices itkable fact, that though the wine of theisland* and of the neighbouring partsk- mainland was excellent, that of Samoa wasnr. lla grape*, however, under the name ofsal Til or iftaftriMits, are commended bynasaa (xcrr. p. 653; see PolL Onomtut. vi. 11),> « theV are one of the most valued parts of itsBtms saw these grapes (<7Ta<f>i5a) dryingr.-» <:cuurUtKa in the ran; and other authoritiesl hghrf of the Malmsey or sweet muscatoi^nrtad in barge quantities from Samos. Its.»» si ibnialant; bat it has a greater tendencyart into ems" fragments than that of Pen-A stone found in the island is said by Pliny (xxxvi. 40) to have been used forpolishing gold. He also mentions in several places(/. e., also xxriii. 53, 77, xxxi. 46, xxxv. 19, A3)the various medicinal properties of its earth. TheSamian earthenware was in high repute at Rome(" Samia etiamnum in esculentis iaudantur," Plin.xxxv. 46), and the name has been traditionallygiven by modern writers to the "red lustrous pot­tery * made by the Romans themselves for domesticuse. (See Marryatt's Pottery and Porcelain, London1850, pp. 286, 290.) For the natural Flora andFauna of the island we must be content to refer toTou rue fort, who says, among other facts, that tigerssometimes swim across to it from Mycale, whichChandler describes as a mountain infested with wildbeasts. The woody flanks of Mount Kerkie stillsupply materials for shipbuilding. It is said inAthenaeus (/. c.) that the roses and fruits of Samoscame to perfection twice a year; and Strabo informsus that its general fruitfulness was such as to giverise to the proverb eW/xi koI opvtOuv 7aAo. The archaeological interest of Samos is slmost en­tirely concentrated in that plain on the S., which con­tained the sanctuary of Hera at one extremity and theancient city on the other. This plain is terminated atthe SW. by a promontory, which from its white cliffs iscalled aVrpo Ka6o by the Greeks, but which receivedfrom the Genoese the name of Cape Colonna. inconsequence of the single column of the Heraeumwhich remains standing in its immediate neighbour­hood. Virgil tells us (Ant. i. 16), that Samos wasat least second in the affections of Juno; and hertemple and worship contributed much to the fameand affluence of Samos for many centuries. Hero­dotus says that the temple was the largest he hadseen. It was of the Ionic order; in form it wasdecastyle dipteral, in dimensions 346 feet by 189.(See Leake, Alia Minor, p. 348.) It was neverentirely finished. At least, the fluting of thecolumns was left, like the foliage on parts of ourcathedrals, incomplete. The original architect wasRhoecus, a Samian. The temple was burnt by thePersians. After its restoration it was plundered bypirates in the Mithridatic War, then by Verres, andthen by M. Antony. He took to Rome three statuesattributed to Myron: of these Augustus restoredthe Athene and Heracles, and retained the Zeus todecorate the Capitol. The image of the goddess wasmade of wood, and was supposed to be the work ofSmilis, a contemporary of Daedalus. In Strabo'stime the temple, with its chapels, was a completepicture gallery, and the hypaethral portion was fullof statues. (See Orig. c. Celt. 4.) In the time ofTacitus, this sanctuary had the rights of asylum.(Aim. iv. 14.) When Pausanina was there,the peoplepointed out to him the shrub of Agnus Csstus,under the shade of which, on the banks of the riverImbrasus, it was believed that Hera was born,(Pans. /. c.) Hence the river itself was called Par-thenias, and the goddess Imbrasia. (Comp. Apull.Rhod. i. 187, 'luSpaniys «oai "Hprjr.) The anchor-ape in front of the sanctuary was called ipfiot'Hpafnjf. (Athen. xv. p. 672.) The temple wasabout 200 paces from the shore, according to Ross,who found its whole basement covered with a massof small fragments of marble, among which areportions of the red tiles with which the temple wasroofed. He discovered hardly anything of interest,except an inscription with the word vcuntoiai. The appearance of the watercour>es of the Im­brasus shows that they are often swollen by rains, 3x2