OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Camillas, but of St. Peter, repulsed the barbarians fromtheir walls. But the relief was accidental, the dangerwas perpetual and pressing: and the clergy and senate,collecting the remains of their ancient opulence, a sum ofthree thousand pounds of gold, dispatched the patricianPamphronius to lay their gifts and their complaints atthe foot of the Byzantine throne. The attention of thecourt, and the forces of the east, were diverted by thePersian war; but the justice of Tiberius applied the sub­sidy to the defence of the city: and he dismissed the pa­trician with his best advice, either to bribe the Lombardchiefs, or to purchase the aid of the kings of France.Notwithstanding this weak invention, Italy was still af­flicted, Rome was again besieged, and the suburb ofClasse, only three miles from Ravenna, was pillaged andoccupied by the troops of a simple duke of Spoleto.Maurice gave audience to a second deputation of priestsand senators; the duties and-the menaces of religionwere forcibly urged in the letters of the Roman pontiff;and his nuncio, the deacon Gregory, was alike qualifiedto solicit the powers either of heaven or of the earth. Theemperor adopted, with stronger effect, the measures ofhis predecessor; some formidable chiefs were persuadedto embrace the friendship of the Romans; and one ofthem, a mild and faithful barbarian, lived and died in theservice of the exarch: the passes of the Alps were deli­vered to the Franks; and the pope encouraged them toviolate, without scruple, their oaths and engagements tothe misbelievers. Childebert, the great-grandson of Clo-vis, was persuaded to invade Italy by the payment of fiftythousand pieces; but as he had viewed with delight someByzantine coin of the weight of one pound of gold, theking of Austrasia might stipulate, that the gift should berendered more worthy of his acceptance, by a proper mix­ture of these respectable medals. The dukes of the Lom­bards had provoked by frequent inroads their powerfulneighbours of Gaul. As soon as they were apprehensive