OCR Output 1-KELIMINAHV REMARKS. 233 or an epic or tragic poem. Both these views have received the sanction olgreat names (cf. Aulus Gellius, Noct. Att. 5,18), and the latter is stampedwith the authority of Cicero (De Orat. 2,12; De Legg. 1,2).* These distinc­tions doubtless hold in reference to the Roman annals in general as comparedwith the standard histories, whether of the Romans or the Greeks. But theyapply only in a limited measure to the Histories and the Annals of Tacitus. HisAnnals, not less than his Histories, are marked by profound reflection on thecauses and consequences of events—by deep research and penetration into theprinciples of human action. And though the rigidity of structure, which be­longs to the very nature of annals, and the extreme conciseness, which wasdemanded by so vast and comprehensive a subject as that of the Annals ofTacitus, are unfavorable to ornament, yet they abound in animated descrip­tions, eloquent speeches and pictures of human conduct and character drawnwith great power and true to the life. The Histories have been compared toan epic poem, of which the subject is the fortunes of the Flavian family, andall the collateral topics, that are treated, come in by way of prelude or episode.There is still more of the dramatic element both in the Histories and the An­nals, which may well be considered as a prolonged tragedy or a series of trage­dies, whether we contemplate the more than tragic horror of most of the inci­dents, or the consummate art and power with which, they are combined anddescribed. The Annals are the author's last work. That they were written subsequent­<y to the Histories, we learn from the incidental testimony of the historianhimself (Ann. 11,11). That they were not completed till near the close of thereign of Trajan, is inferred from Ann. 2, 61, where he speaks of the boundariesof the Roman empire as already extended to the Red Sea, which was done byTrajan in the 17th year of his reign, A. v. c. 868; a. d. 115. The Historiesalso were given to the world in the same reign—in what year is not known,though Trajan had already reigned so long and performed such achievements,that Tacitus had formed a purpose of writing his history together with that otthe deified Nerva (His. 1,1). The Biography of Agricola was issued near thecommencement of the same reign, as a sort of forerunner to the Histories, ofwhich it contains an announcement (of. A. 1, and Notes, ibid.), and whichmust therefore have been already contemplated, if not actually begun at thattime. The Treatise on Germania was published not far from the same timewith the Agricola (cf. Special Introductions to those Treatises). The Dialoguede Claris Oratoribus, if the work of Tacitus, was doubtless a much earlier pro­duction. Accordingly it betrays the author's youth in its playful humor andlively emotions, in its exuberance of fancy and the excessive ornaments of itsstyle. Moreover the other works, though all composed in the full strength ofmanhood, exhibit a gradual progress in maturity of thought, in depth of feel­ing and in gravity of expression, in the same order in which they were written.The German Manners and the Life cf Agricola abound in poetic fancies,lively conceits and artificial periods, which he afterwards learned, or chose, ina measure to retrench. Besides the one of these was professedly a pane­gyric, and the other in spirit, though not in form and main design, a satire * See on this general svbject Smith's Diet, ot Gr. and Rom. Antiq. under4nnals; also the Prolegomena of Walther, Rupert! and others. 20*