OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. and moderation in a contest with their Roman brethren.The rigid and parsimonious virtues of Maurice had longsince alienated the hearts of his subjects; as he walkedbarefoot in a religious procession, he was rudely assaultedwith stones, and his guards were compelled to presenttheir iron-maces in the defence of his person. A, fa­natic monk ran through the streets with a drawn sword,denouncing against him the wrath and the sentence ofGod; and a vile plebeian, who represented his counte­nance and apparel, was .seated on an ass, and pursued bythe imprecations of the multitude.11 The emperor sus­pected the popularity of Germanus with the soldiers andcitizens; he feared, he threatened, but he delayed tostrike; the patrician fled to the sanctuary of the church;the people rose in his defence, the walls were desertedby the guards, and the lawless city was abandoned tothe flames and rapine of a nocturnal tumult. In a smallbark, the unfortunate Maurice, with his wife and ninechildren, escaped to the Asiatic shore; but the violenceof the wind compelled him to land at the church of St.Autonomus," near Chalcedon, from whence he dis­patched Theodosius, his eldest son, to implore the grati­tude and friendship of the Persian monarch. For him-• self, he refused to fly; his body was tortured with sciaticpains/ his mind was enfeebled by superstition; he pa­tiently awaited the event of the revolution, and addresseda fervent and public prayer to the Almighty, that thepunishment of his sins might be inflicted in this world "In their clamours against Maurice, the people of Constantinople branded himwith the name of Marcionite or Marcionist: a heresy, (says Theopbylact, lib. 8. c. 9.)fAsra two? jwauja; EvXafftias, Eu>!0nc te xai xaray&a.a-ros. Did the^ only cast oat avague reproach, or had the emperor really listened to some obscure teacher of thoseancient Gnostics? * The church of St. Antonomus (whom I have not the honour to know) was onehundred aud fifty Stadia from Constantinople. (Theopbylact, lib. 8. c. 9.) The portof Entropies, where Maurice and his children were murdered, is described by Gyllius(de Bosphoio Thracio, lib. 3. c. 11.) as one of the two harbours of Chalcedon. 1 The inhahitants of Constantinople were generally subject to the nm apBpmie; jand Theopbylact insinuates, (lib. 8. c. 9.) that if it Were consistent with the rules ofliistory, he could assign the medical cause. Yet such a digression would not havebeen more impertinent than his inquiry (lib. 7. c. 16,17.) into the annual inundatiousof the Nile, and all the opinions of the Greek philosophers on that subject.