OCR Output 314 TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS, [fi. VII. or even four stories one above another. The magnificencealso of their structure afforded one both pleasure and surprise;for upon many of them were laid carpets of gold. There wasalso wrought gold and ivory fastened about them all, andmany resemblances of the war, and those in several ways,and variety of contrivances, affording a most lively portraitureof itself, for there was to be seen a happy country laid waste,and entire squadrons of enemies slain; while some of themran away, and some were carried into captivity, with wallsof great altitude and magnitude overthrown, and ruined bymachines, with the strongest fortifications taken, and thewalls of most populous cities upon the tops of hills seized on,and an army pouring itself within the walls; as also everyplace full of slaughter, and supplications of the enemies whenthey were no longer able to lift up their hands in way ofopposition. Fire also sent upon temples was here represented,and houses overthrown, and falling upon their owners: riversalso, after they came out of a large and melancholy desert,ran down, not into a land cultivated, nor as drink for men orfor cattle, but through a land still on fire upon every side;for the Jews related that such a thing they had undergoneduring this war. Now, the workmanship of these representa­tions was so magnificent and lively in the construction of thethings, that it exhibited what had been done to such as didnot see it, as if they had been there really present. On thetop of every one of these pageants, was placed the commanderof the city that was taken, and the manner wherein he wastaken. Moreover, there followed those pageants a greatnumber of ships ; and for the other spoils they were carriedin great plenty. But for those' that were taken in the 1 Seo the representations of these Jewish vessels, as they still stand onTitus's triumphal arch at Kome, in Reland's very curious book, de SpoliitTempli throughout. Rut what things are chiefly to be noted are these. —(1.) That Josephus says, the candlestick here carried in this triumph wasnot thoroughly like that which was used in the temple, which appears in thenumber of the little knops and flowers in that on the triumphal arch not wellagreeing with Moses' description, Exod. xxv. 31-36. (2) The smallness ofthe branches in Josephus, compared with the thickness of those on that