OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 218 they say that some actions, but not all, are the work of fate, andsome of them are in our own power, and that they are liable tofate, but are not caused by fate. But the sect of the Essensaffirm, that fate governs all things, and that nothing befalls menbut what is according to its determination. And for the Saddu-cees they take away fate and say there is no such thing, andthat the events of human affairs are not at its disposal, but theysuppose that all our actions are in our own power, so that we areourselves the causes of what is good, and receive what is evilfrom our own folly. However, I have given a more exact ac­count of these opinions in the second book of the Jewish war. 10. But now the generals of Demetrius being willing to re­cover the defeat they had had, gathered a greater army togetherthan they had before, and came against Jonathan; but as soon ashe was informed of their coming, he went suddenly to meetthem, to the country of Hamoth, for he resolved to give themno opportunity of coming into Judea, so he pitched his camp atfifty furlongs distant from the enemy, and sent out spies to takea view of their camp, and after what manner they were encamp­ed. When his spies had given him full information, and hadseized upon some of them by night, who told him the enemywould soon attack him, he, thus apprized beforehand, providedfor his security, and placed watchmen beyond his camp, andkept all his forces armed all night; and he gave them a chargeto be of good courage, and to have their minds prepared to fightin the night time, if they should be obliged to do so, lest theirenemies' designs should seem concealed from them. But whenDemetrius' commanders were informed, that Jonathan knewwhat they mtended, their counsels were disordered, and it alarm­ed them to find, that the enemy had discovered those their in­tentions, nor did they expect to overcome them any other way,now they had failed in the snares they had laid for them; forshould they hazard an open battle, they did not think theyshould be a match for Jonathan's army, so they resolved tofly: and having lighted many fires, that when the enemy sawthem they might suppose they were there still, they retired.But when Jonathan came to give them battle in the morning intheir camp, and found it deserted, and understood they were fled,he pursued them, yet he could not overtake them, for they hadalready passed over the river Eleutherus, and were out of danger.So when Jonathan was returned thence, he went into Arabia,and fought against the Nabateans, and drove away a great dealof their prey, and took [many] captives, and came to Damascus,and there sold of that he had taken. About the same time itwas, that Simon his brother went over all Judea and Palestine,as far as Askelon, and fortified the strong holds; and when he