OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 49$ guilty or unfortunate general. The dispatches weretransmitted to Sarbar himself; and as soon as he read thesentence of his own death, he dexterously inserted the .,•names of four hundred officers, assembled a militarycouncil, and asked the cadarigan, whether he was pre­pared to execute the commands of their tyrant? ThePersians unanimously declared, that Chosroes had for­feited the sceptre; a separate treaty was concluded withthe government of Constantinople; and if some consi­derations of honour or policy restrained Sarbar from join­ing the standard of Heraclius, the emperor was assured,that he might prosecute, without interruption, his de­signs of victory and peace. . Deprived of his firmest support, and doubtful of the Hi«third _ _ . _ . 11 expedition, fidelity of his subjects, the greatness of Chosroes was a. d. 6z7.still conspicuous in its ruins. The number of five hun­dred thousand may be interpreted as an oriental meta­phor, to describe the men and arms, the horses and ele­phants, that covered Media and Assyria against the in­vasion of Heraclius. Yet the Romans boldly advancedfrom the Araxes to the Tigris, and the timid prudence ofRhazates was content to follow them by forced marchesthrough a desolate country till he received a peremptorymandate to risk the fate of Persia in a decisive battle.Eastward of the Tigris, at the end of the bridge of Mo-sal, the great Nineveh had formerly been erected thecity, and even the ruins of the city, had long since disap­peared :k the vacant space afforded a spacious field for theoperations of the two armies. But these operations areneglected by the Byzantine historians, and, like the au- 'Ctesias (apud Diodnr. Sicul. torn. 1. lib. 2. p. 115. edit. Wesseling, assigns fourhundred and eight; stadia (perhaps only thirty-two miles) for the circumference ofNineveh. Jonas talks of three days' journey: the one hundred and twenty thousandpersons described by the prophet as incapable of discerning their right band fromtheir left, may afford about seven hundred thousand persons of all ages for the inha­bitants of that ancient capital, (Goguet, Origincs des Loix, &c. torn. 3. part 1. p. 92,93.) which ceased to exist six hundred years before Christ. The western suburbstill subsisted, and is mentioned under the name of Mosul in the first age of the Ara­bian caliphs. k Niebuhr (Voyage en Arable, &c. torn. 2. p. 286.) passed over Nineveh withoutperceiving it. He mistook for a ridge of hills the old rampart of brick or earth. Itis said to have been one hundred feet high, flanked with fifteen hundred towers, eachof the height of two hundred feet.