OCR Output STYLE OP TACITUS. 21 Ann. XV., 71, Miliehus praemiis dilatus, Conservatoris nomen Graecoejus rei vocabulo assumpsit. Yet he does not maintain so rigid and.offensive an observance of this peculiarity as to avoid the use ofwhatever has a foreign sound; he admits some such words, as tropaea,asylum, chlamys, catapulla, acinaces. 17. He hesitated not to revive ancient words, and forms of words,wlich had been condemned by the refinement of the Ciceronian andthe Augustan age, believing that there is more brilliancy in that whichsavors of antiquity. Editors have retained the datives senatu, nuru,luxu, as also in Ann. IV., 55, Persi for Persei; but at the sametime they have rejected many ancient forms, lest Tacitus should ap­pear too unlike Cicero. In Ann. IV., 32, the Medicean MS. hascompossivere, and not composuere; and Ann. XIII., 40; Hist. III.,22, cornum not cornu. It is easy indeed to correct such expressionsaccording to the usage of Cicero, and to ridicule and charge withsuperstition those who rest their judgment upon the authority of asingle MS. But if it is right carefully to pursue truth even in thesmallest matters, if it is right to reverence even with pious feeling notonly the sentiments but the literary tastes and little preferences ofgreat, geniuses, there is nothing—in matters which cannot be settledby any laws of human reason nor decided by any acuteness of judg­ment—there is nothing which I will trust sooner than even a singleMS. It should, therefore, be well considered, whether, as in Germ.24, juvenior is retained without any other example; so in Ann. VI.,17, venditio et emitio ought not to be retained, for which emptio isnow read; and in Ann. IV., 66,1 have preferred to change the cor­rupt telerani into ietulerant rather than into tulerant. Editors haveretained other readings also, which had long since gone out of date,as Hist. I., 31, necdum for nondum; and Ann. ILL, 2, munera fungi.Nay, even the genitive vis has succeeded in maintaining its place,Dial. 26. And yet Ann. XIV., 7, expergens; Ann. I., 1, false; Ann.LL, 14, the singular sacri for hostiae; Hist. I., 53, decori juventa,which are in no respect more unusual, have not obtained the sameindulgence. It is surely a questionable scrupulosity which refusessuch words to a writer who desired to be unique, and who did noteven obtain an imitator, by a comparison with whom one can deter­mine what he did and what he did not approve. On the other hand, Tacitus, in my opinion, coined few new words ;unless, perchance, same one may think that all those words, whichare found in his writings alone, were of course originated by him.But it is extremely difficult to decide whether Tacitus was the firstto use any word, or whether we read it for the first time in his wri­tings. So long as he corresponds to all the rules for forming words,