OCR Output 76854 (y.i) THE EDITOR'S PREFACE. T. HE credibility of Scripture History has been established by a combination of evidence,altogether incontrovertible. This is the more remarkable and satisfactory, as the Bible con­tains not only the most ancient records, but exclusively makes known to us the origin of allthings, and the transactions of those ages, which will in vain be sought for elsewhere, orfound involved only in fable. That, however, some difficulties should occur in perusing such venerable documents, mayeasily and reasonably be conceived; but they are not such as affect their authenticity, or evenweaken their evidence. It is not impracticable to solve or remove most of them; and the ob­scurity which remains after the fruitless efforts of sober criticism, may fairly be imputed tothe want of information, of which the distance of place and time has deprived us. A re­markable consistency and harmony characterises the historical parts of the Bible;—delivereddown to us as they have been in separate books, and written by various inspired penmen, theslightest comparison will serve to force upon our minds the conviction that they are genuine,as far, at least, as veracity may be inferred from an agreement of the various branches of asubject. « There are different modes of ascertaining the integrity of the canon of scripture: learnedmen have with great success performed this task—evidence to confirm the claim of the in­spired writers to the characters they assume, has been adduced and admitted. Testimonyof an external nature has, likewise, been brought forward, to corroborate the general contentsof the Bible, or its particular parts and facts. Tradition furnishes us with some proof, thoughprudence requires a careful investigation of its documents, and a cautious admission of them;but, however they may be exaggerated or obscured, they must have had some foundation,which, if it can be traced, will deserve attention, from its correspondence to the great original.In some instances it is so very remarkable and striking, that the boldest scepticism cannot well refuse and discard its aid. B voL. I. No. I.