OCR Output PALAESTINA.5x7 TALAKSTJNA. Ik atrial prevail. It is in the northern part ofcountry alone that volcanic format ions arcsi in considerable quantities. Nevertheless muchhe laud in which volcanic rocks are not found-s evident narks of frequent volcanic action,i as hot-springs; the crater-like depressions, suchi of Tiberias, and that of the Dead Sea, withrocks , the frequent and visible disturb- ■ of the strata of the normal rocks, the numerousmm, and especially the frequent and violent cart li­ra. The line of earthquakes in Syria includes• c. Jerusalem, A'oWw, Tiberias, Sofed, Baalbek, from thence takes a direction from south-to r> etb-east, follows the direction of the centrali of >yria. runs parallel to that of the valley of'. - iae, ud lias its termination northwards, in<oJoanic country on the slope of Taurus (Giaur\\ sad southwards in the mountain land of■a 1'etraca. At several places branches of thisvoscaosc crevice appear to stretch as far asea, and to touch Jaffa, Acre, Beirut, Antioch,. there be a second crevice, parallel to: along the coast, and connecting tbeI am of opinion that such is theand tbat there exists also a third crevice, coin-: *na the direction of the valley of the Jordan,~t*d to the principal crevice above mentionedaonhem extremity. This supposition will uc-fcr the ilsunaaiiai of the valley of the Jordan. ■ time of tbe destruction of Sodom and Go-a tbs surface of the crevice opened, and thearenasiii of tbe ground from JeM-es-Skeichwatershed in Wody eUAraha followed. The •rw of tbe resistance arising from local circum-a, tbe volcanic eruptions connected with this= cata, tbe local form of tbe land, and tbe dif-> xhs of tbe chasm then formed, caused a morei extensive depression, and created along thecrater-like bellows, some of extraordinaryat tbe faauin of Tiberias and that of tbe DeadTieae boUows. as is usual in such cases, becamewith water, and formed a system of lakes.t_» water* from the sides of Jebel-es-Sheich. -J.r principal stream of Jordan connectingb*vin£ overflowed them successively,was not the case wilb the Dead Sea.I of Wadf-el-Araba is probably muchnt tbam tbe depression; and as the Redbj tbe geognostic nature of Wady-tl-meriv seems to have extended so farmust have existed at tbe timei otherwise the Bed Sea woulde hollow formed by the sinking of theH kmmt nr. there existed before the time ofTnim a regular fall throughout the wholeto tbe Rrd Sea, it is natural to suppose thatt tbe? Jordan flowed into the Red Sea,tbe depression took place its courseHowever this may have been,tbe filling of the basin of theuntil it became of such super-i of the water was equal tobox. Tbe appearance of its shores proves that,eajfc*/ to a greater influx of water duringaw^as. or to a less copious evaporation causedantsocas of temperature, the sea at one timeBmebwabv bigber than at present-"baser Omubevr introduces his theory with other i W nai nil agency collected from modemmf ua*el (Dr. iJaubeny, A Description of ac- ii rsarf 1'ihV—ntf.jfr °nrl ed.pp.350—363.) 11 If we proceed southwards, from the part of AsiaMinor we have just been considering, in the direc­tion of Palestine, we shall meet with abundant evi­dences of igneous action to corroborate the accountsthat have been handed down to us by ancient wri­ters, whether sacred or profane, from both whichit might be inferred that volcanos were in activityeven so late as to admit of their being includedwithin the limits of authentic history. (Nahum, i.5, 6; Micah, i. 3, 4; Isaiah, lxiv. 1—3; Jer. li.25, 26.) u The destruction of the five cities on the bordersof the lake Asphaltitis or Dead Sea, can be attri­buted, I conceive, to nothing else than a volcaniceruption, judging both from the description given byMoses of the manner in which it took place (Gen.MX. 24, 25, 28; Deut. xxix. 23), and from thepresent aspect of the country itself. "Volney's description of the piesent state of thiscountry fully coincides with this view. (Travels inEgypt and Syria, vol. i. pp. 281, 282.) *** The south of Syria/ be remarks,' that is, thehollow through which the Jordan tlows, is a countryof volcanos: the bituminous and sulphureous sourcesof the lake Asphaltitis, the lava, the pumice-stonesthrown upon its banks, and the hot-baths of Ta-baria, demonstrate that this valley has been theseat of a subterraneous fire, which is not yet extin­guished. Clouds of smoke arc often observed toissue from the lake, and new crevices to be formedupon its banks. If conjectures in such cases werenot too liable to error we might Buspect that thewhole valley has been formed only by a violentsinking of a country which formerly poured theJordan into tbe Mediterranean. It appears certain,at least, that the catastrophe of five cities destroyedby fire must have been occasioned by the eruption ofa volcano then burning. M * The eruptions themselves have ceased long since,but the effects which usually succeed them still con­tinue to be felt at intervals in this country. Thecoast in general is subject to earthquakes; andhistory notices several which have changed theface of Antioch, Laodicea, Tripoli, Bcrytus, Tyre,and Sidon. In our time, in the year 1759, therehappened one which caused the greatest ravages.It is said to have destroyed in tbe valley of Baal beeupwards of 20,000 persons; a loss which has neverbeen repaired. For three months the shock of itterrified the inhabitants of Lebanon so much as tomake them abandon their houses and dwell undertents.' "In addition to these remarks of Volney, a recenttraveller, Mr. Legh (sec his account of Syria, at­tached to Macmichael's Journey from Moscow toConstantinople), states that, "on the south-east sideof the Dead Sea, on the right of the road that leadsto KeraJc, red and brown homstone, porphyry, in thelatter of which the felspar is much decomposed,syenite, breccia, and a heavy black amygdaloid,containing white specks, apparently of zeolite, arethe prevailing rocks. Not fur from Shobec, wherethere were formerly copper mines, he observed por­tions of scoriae. Near the fortress of Shobec, onthe left, are two volcanic craters; on the right, one.The Roman road on the same side is formed ofpieces of lava. Masses of volcanic rock also occurin the valley of Ellasar. "The western side of the valley of the Jordan, ac­cording to Russegger, is composed of Jura limestone,intersected by numerous dykes and streams of basalt,