OCR Output 412 ROMAN EMPIRE. the reign of the Ptolemies and Caesars, the seat of govern­ment was removed to the sea-coast; the ancient capitalwas eclipsed by the arts and opulence of Alexandria;the palaces, and at length the temples, were reduced toa desolate and ruinous condition: yet in the age of Au­gustus, and even in that of Constantine, Memphis wasstill numbered among the greatest and most populous ofthe provincial cities.' The banks of the Nile, in thisplace of the breadth of three thousand feet, were unitedby two bridges of sixty and of thirty boats, connected inthe middle stream by the small island of Rouda, whichwas covered with gardens and habitations.1* The easternextremity of the bridge was terminated by the town ofBabylon and the camp of a Roman legion, which pro­tected the passage of the river and the second capital ofEgypt. This important fortress, which might fairly bedescribed as part of Memphis or Misrah, was investedby the arms of the lieutenant of Omar: a reinforcementof four thousand Saracens soon arrived in his camp; andthe military engines, which battered the walls, may beimputed to the art and labour of his Syrian allies. Yetthe siege was protracted to seven months; and the rashinvaders were encompassed and threatened by the inun­dation of the Nile.1 Their last assault was bold andsuccessful: they passed the ditch, which had been for­tified with iron spikes, applied their scaling-ladders, en­tered the fortress with the shout of God is victorious! * 'Strabo, an accurate and attentive spectator, observes of Heliopolis ; nut fui tarurn irmptput n «Xif; (Geograph. lib. 17. p. 1158.) but of Memphis he declares,ureXi; !* fori /ufyaXn TI xai lvayogo;, JIUTIJH fttr AXlfarJptiar; (p. 1161.) he notices,however, the mixture of inhabitants and the ruins of the palaces. In the properEgypt, Ammianus enumerates Memphis among the foul cities, maximis urbibusquibus provincial nitet; (22. 16.) and the name of Memphis appears with distinc­tion in the Roman itinerary and episcopal lists. k These rare and curious facts, (the breadth two thousand nine hundred andforty-six feet) and the bridge of the Nile, are only to be found in the Danish tra­veller and the Nubian geographer, (p. 98.) 1 From the month of April, the NUe begins imperceptibly to rise; the swell be­comes strong and visible m the moon after the summer solstice, (Plin. Hist. Nat.5.10.) and is ususlly proclaimed at Cairo on St. Peter's day. (Jane 29.) A registerof thirty successive years marks the greatest height of the waters between July *5and Augnst 18. (Maillet, Description de I' Egypte, lettre 11. p. 67, &c. Pocock'iDescription of the East, vol. 1. p. 200. Shaw s Travels, p. 383.)