OCR Output l.'.r, LEMNOS. LEMNOS. Litter is nearly double the true diatanrc. Severalancient writers, however, state that Mount Athoscast its shadow upon the island. (Soph. ap. Schol.ad Thencr. vi. 76; Plin. /. c) Pliny also relatesthat Lemnos is 112 miles in circuit, which is per­haps not Car from the truth, if we reckon all thewindings of the coast. Its area is nearly 150 squaremiles. It is of an irregular quadrilateral shape,being nearly divided into two peninsulas by two deepbays, Port Paradise on the N., and Port St. Antonyon the S. The latter is a large and convenient har­bour. On the eastern side of the island is a boldrock projecting into the sea, called by Aeschylus'Eppuitov AcVar A-huvev. in his description of thebeacon fires between Mount Ida and Mycenae, an-nonncing the capture of Troy. (Aesch. Agam283; comp. Soph. PhilocL 1459.) Hills, but of nogreat height, cover two-thirds of the island ; theyare barren and rocky, and there are very few trees,except in some of the narrow valleys. The wholeIsland bears the strongest marks of the effects ofvolcanic fire; the rocks, in many places, are like theburnt and vitrified scoria of furnaces. Hence wemay account for its connection with Hephaestus, who,when hurled from heaven by Zeus, is said to havefallen upon I*emnos. (Horn. II. i. 594.) The islandwas therefore sacred to Hephaestus (Xicandr. Thtr.438; Ov. Fast. iii. 82), who was frequently calledthe Lemnian god. (Ov. Met. iv. 185; Virg. Am.vii). 454.) From its volcanic appearance it de­rived its name of Aethaleia (AifldAfia, l'olyb. ap.Steph. B., and Etym. M. «. r. AifloAn). It was alsorelated that from one of its mountains, calledMosYCHLUfl (Mdtn/YAor), fire was seen to blazeforth. (Antimach. ap. Schol. ad Sicandr. Tlirr. 472;Lycophr. 227; Hesych. t. ».) In a village in theisland, named Ckorotu, there is a hot-spring, calledThirmui, where a commodious balh has been built,witli a lodging-house for strangers, who frequent it forits suppose*! incffkinal qualities. The name of Lemnosis said to have been derived from the name of theGreat Goddess, who v:as called Lemnos by the originalinhabitants of the island. (Hecat. ap. Steph. B.$.r.) The earliest inhabitants of Lemnos, according toHomer, were the Simtiks (2t*rifj)i a Thrmciantribe; a name, however, which probably only sig­nifies robbers (from alwuu). (Horn. //. i. 594, Od.▼iii. 294; Strab. vii. p. 331, x, p. 457, xii. p. 549.)When the Argonaut* landed at Lemnos, they aresaid to have found it inhabited only by women, whohad murdered all their husbands, and had chosen astheir queen Hypsipyle, the daughter of Thoas, theformer King of the island. [See Diet, of Biogr.art. Hyi-sii'TLk.] Some of the Argonauts settledhere, and became by the Lemnian women the fathersof the Minyak (Minioi), the later inhabitants of theisland. Tlie Minyae were driven out of the island bythe Tyrrhenian I'elasgians, who had been expelledfrom Attica. (Herod, iv. 145, vi. 137; Apoll.Rood. i. 608, seq, and Schol.; Apollod. i. 9. § 17,iii. 6. § 4.) It is also related that these I'elas­gians, out of revenge, made a descent upon the coastof Attica during the festival of Artemis at Brauron,ami carried off some Athenian women, whom theymade their concubines; but, as the children ofthese women despised their half-brothers born of Pe-lasgian women, the I'elasgians murdered both themand their Athenian mothers. Iu consequence of thisatrocity, and of the former murder of the Lemnianhusbands by their wives, " Lemnian Deeds" (AVyi»ia fpyet) became a proverb throughout Greece for allatrocious acts. (Herod, vi. 128; Eustath. ad 1Lp. 158. 11, ail Dumys. Per. 347; Zenob. iv. 91.)Lemnos continued to be inhabited by IVlassrian",when it was conquered by Otanes, one of the gene­rals of Darius Hystaspis (Herod, v. 2C); but MU-tiades delivered it from the Persians, ami made itsubject to Athens, in whose power it remained for along time. (Herod, vi. 137; Thnc. iv. 2H, vii. 57.)In fact, it was always regarded as an Athenian ym-session, and accordingly the [>eace of Antalcidas,which declared the independence of all the Grecianstates, nevertheless allowed the Athenians to retainpossession of Leinnos, Imbrt>s, and Scyros. {.\«i.II.'i. iv. 8. § 15, v. 1. § 31.) At a Liter peri.<iLeinnos passed into the hands of the Macedonians,but it was restored to the Athenians by the Romans.(l'olyb. xxx. 18.) In the earliest times, Lemnos appears to havecontained only one town, which bore the sjune nan*as the island (Horn. J I. xiv. 230); but at a later|>criod we find two towns, Myrina and Hephaestus.Myiuna (Mvpiva: F.th. Mvptpatot) stood on thewestern side of the island, as we may infer from thestatement of Pliny, that the shadow of ML Atlwswas visible in the forum of the city at the time ofthe summer solstice. (Plin. iv. 12. a. 23; Herod,vi. 140; Steph. B. >. v.; Ptol.iii. 13. § 4.) Ouitssite stands the modern Kmiro, which is still tlxchief town in the place. In contains about 2000inhabitants; and its little port is defended by apier, and commanded by a ruinous mediaeval fortresson the overhanging rocks. Hki'Iiakstiak, or Ha>imiakstia ('Hvtwio-Ti'as, 'Htpaiorta: AM. H<xzi-ffTicus), was situated in the northern part of tlieisland. (Herod., Plin., Ptol. U. «.; Steph. B.s. r.)There are coins of Hephaestia (see below), but noteof Mvrina, and none bearing tlie name of the island.(Eck'hel, vol. ii. p. 51.) According to Pliny (xxxvi. 13. s. 19) Letunoshad a celebrated labyrinth, supported by 150columns, and with gates so well poised, that achild could open them. Pliny adds, that therewere still truces of it ill his time. Dr. Hunt,who visited the island in 1S01, attempted to findout the ruins of this labyrinth, aud was directed toa subterraneous staircase in an uninhabited fori "fthe island, near a bay, called PtmrniiJt. He herefound extensive ruins of an ancient and strmcbuilding that seemed to have had a ditrh rousd itcommunicating with the sea. "The edifices havecovered about 10 acres of ground: there are fourxla-tions of an amazing number of small buiMinr,*within the outer wall, each about seven feet s.)mre.The walls towards tlie sea are strong, and com­posed of Urge square blocks of stone. On anelevated spot of ground in one corner of the area, wefound a subterraneous staircase, and, after lightingour tapers, we went down into it The entrants'was difficult: it consisted of 51 steps, and abuatevery twelfth one was of marble, tin others of com­mon stone. At the bottom is a small chamber witha well in it, by which probably the garrison wassupplied: a censer, a lamp, and a few matches, werelying in a corner, for the use of the Greek Christiana,who call this well an A-vIcur^o, or Holy Ft sslm,and the ruins about it Panwjia Coccipt*. Thepeasants in the neighbourhood had no knowledge ofany sculpture, or statues, or medals having everbeen found there." It does not appear, huwever.that these ruins have any relation to the labyrinth