OCR Output ks. 107.] 485 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. had conferred many benefits on his owncountry, and made war against Iturea, andadded a great part of it to Judea, and com­pelled the inhabitants, if they would continuein that country, to be circumcised and tolive according to the Jewish laws. He wasnaturally a man of candour, and of greatmodesty; as Strabo bears witness, in thename of Timagenes; who says thus, "Thisman was a person of candour, and very ser­viceable to the Jews: for he added to thema part of the nation of the Itureans, and uni­ted them by the bond of circumcision." CHAP. XII. op Alexander's succession to the government; hisexpedition against ptolemais, and the war whichptolemy lathyrus made against him. WHEN Aristobulus was dead, his wifeSalome, who by the Greeks wascalled Alexandra, liberated his brethren fromprison: (for Aristobulus had kept them inbonds, as we have said already:) and madeAlexander Janneus king; who was the supe­rior in age, and in moderation. This childhappened to be hated by his father, as soonas he was born, and was never permitted tocome into his father's sight, till he died.The occasion of which hatred is thus report­ed. When Hyrcanus chiefly loved the twoeldest of his sons, Antigonus and Aristobulus,God appeared to him in his sleep. Of whomhe inquired which of his sons should be hissuccessor? Upon God's representing to himthe countenance of Alexander, he was griev­ed that he was to be the heir of all hisgoods; and suffered him to be brought up in♦Galilee. However, God did not deceiveHyrcanus: for after the death of Aristobulus,he took the kingdom; and one of his breth­ren, who affected the kingdom, he slew: butthe other, who chose to live private, he heldin esteem. When Alexander Janneus had settled thegovernment, in the manner that he judgedbest, he made an expedition against Ptole-mais. And having overcome the men in bat- tie, he shut them up in the city, and satround about it, and besieged it. For of themaritime cities there remained only Ptolemaisand Gaza to be conquered; besides Strato'sTower, and Dora, which were held by thetyrant Zoilus. Now while Antiochus fPhi-lometor, and Antiochus, who was called Cy-zicenus, were making war against each other,and destroying one another's armies, thepeople of Ptolemais could have no assistancefrom them. But when they were distressedwith this siege, Zoilus, who possessed Strato'sTower, and Dora, and maintained a legion ofsoldiers, and on occasion of the contest be­tween the kings, affected tyranny himself;came and brought some small assistance tothe people of Ptolemais. Nor indeed had thekings such a friendship for them, as that theyshould hope for any advantage from them.Both those kings were in the case of wres­tlers, who finding themselves deficient instrength, and yet being ashamed to yield,put off the contest by lying still as long asthey can. The only hope they had remain­ing, was from the kings of Egypt, and fromPtolemy Lathyrus, who came to Cyprus whenhe was driven from the government of Egyptby Cleopatra his mother. So the people ofPtolemais sent to this Ptolemy Lathyrus;and desired him to come, as a confederate,to deliver them, now they were in such dan­ger, out of the hands of Alexander. Andthe ambassadors gave him hopes, that, if hewould pass over into Syria, he would havethe people of Gaza, on the side of those ofPtolemais; and that Zoilus, with the Sido-nians, and many others would assist them;so that he was elevated at this, and got hisfleet ready as soon as possible. In the mean time, however, Demetrius, onethat was of abilities to persuade men to doas he would have them, and a leader of thepopulace, made those of Ptolemais changetheir opinions, and said to them, that it wasbetter to run the hazard of being subject tothe Jews, than to admit of evident slavery,by delivering themselves up to a master;and besides that, to have not only a war at * The reason why Hyrcanus suffered not this son ofhis, whom he did not love, to come into Judea; but or­dered him to be brought up in Galilee, is suggested byDr. Hudson; that Galilee was not esteemed so happy andwell cultivated a country as Judea. See Matt. xxvi. 73, Job vii. 52, Acts ii. 7. Although another obvious reasonoccurs also, that he was farther out of his sight in Galilee,than he would have been in Judea. t The same with Antiochus Grypus, chap. 10. 4H2