OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. •their complaints before the emperor. These military petitioners,by their own determined behaviour, by inflaming the divisions ofthe guards, by exaggerating the strength of the British army, andby alarming the fears of Commodus, exacted and obtained the mi­nister's death, as the only redress of their grievances '7. Thispresumption of a distant army, and their discovery of the weaknessof government, was a sure presage of the most dreadful convul­sions. The negligence of the public administration was betrayed soonafterwards, by a new disorder which arose from the smallest begin­nings. A spirit of desertion began to prevail among the troops; andthe deserters, instead of seeking their safety in flight or conceal­ment, infested the highways. Maternus, a private soldier, of adaring boldness above his station, collected these bands of robbersinto a little army, set open the prisons, invited the slaves to asserttheir freedom, and plundered with impunity the rich and defence­less cities of Gaul and Spain. The governors of the provinces, whohad long been the spectators, and perhaps the partners, of his de­predations, were, at length, roused from their supine indolence bythe threatening commands of the emperor. Maternus found thathe was encompassed, and foresaw that he must be overpowered. Agreat effort of despair was his last resource. He ordered his fol­lowers to disperse, to pass the Alps in small parties and variousdisguises, and to assemble at Rome, during the licentious tumult ofthe festival of Cybele ,8. To murder Commodus, and to ascendthe vacant throne, was the ambition of no vulgar robber. Hismeasures were so ably concerted, that his concealed troops alreadyfilled the streets of Rome. The envy of an accomplice discovered-and ruined this singular enterprise, in the moment it was ripe for Revolt ofMiternus. execution '9. Suspicious princes often promote the last of mankind from a vain TV ministerpersuasion, that those who have no dependence, except on their N a favou^