OCR Output 363 SERIPHOS. period of several centuries. On the other hand, imay it not be possible that the product was calledafter the people, instead of the people after the pro-duct? We are not without examples of an analo- |£ous procedure; its, for instance, the name of thephasis, or pheasant, from the river Phasis; of ourown w.ird currants, anciently and properly Ctirintfis,from the place wlience that small species of grapewas originally brought, &C However this may be,we may refer the reader who is desirous of a furtheraccount of tlie origin and manufacture of silk, to anexcellent dissertation in the Ttxtrinum Antiquarum.of Mr. Yates (part i. p. 160, seq.), where he willfind all the passages in ancient authors that bearupon the subject carefully collected and discussed. Besides its staple article, Seriea also produced aTast quantity of precious stones of every kind {Ex­pos, tot. Mutidi, ap. Hudson, iii. p. 1, seq.), as wellas iron, which was esteemed of a better quality eventhan the Parthian (Plin. /. c.) and skins {Per. M.Erythr. p. 22; Amm. /. c.) According to Pattsanias (vi. 22. § 2) the Pereswere a mixture of Scythians and Indians. Theyare mentioned by Strabo (xv. p. 701), but only in acursory manner. It appears from Mela (iii. 7) andfrom Pliny (vi. 17. s. 24), compared with Eusta-thius (ml Dumy$. Per. v. 753, seq.), and AmmianusMarcellinus (/. c), that they were a just and gentlepeople, loving tranquillity and comfort. Althoughaddicted to commerce, they were completely isolatedfrom the rest of the world, and carefully avoided allintercourse with strangers. From these habits, theywere obliged to carry on their commercial transac­tions in a very singular manner. They inscribedthe prices of their goods open the bales in whichthey were packed, and then deposited them in asolitary building called the Stone Tower; perhapsthe same place mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 15. §3)under the name of Hormcterion, situated in a valleyon the upper course of the Jaxartes, and in theScythian district of Casia. The Scythian merchantsthen approached, and having deposited what theydeemed a just price for the goods, retired. Aftertheir departure, the Seres examined the sum de­posited, and if they thought it sufficient took itaway, leaving the goods: but if not enough wasfound, they removed the latter instead of the money.In the description of this mode of traffic we stillrecognise the characteristics of the modern Chinese.The Parthian* also traded with the Seres, and itwas probably through the former that the Humansat a later period procured most of their silk staff*;though the i'artbiaus passed them off as Assyriangoods, which seems to bare been believed by theRomans (Plin. xi. 22. s. 25). After the overthrowof the Parthian empire by the Persians, the silktrade naturally fell into the hands of the latter.(Vopi.sc. Aurti. c. 45; l'rocop. if. Pert. i. 20, &c.)With regard to their persons, the Seres are de­scribed as being of unusual size, with blue eyes, redhair, and a rough voice (Plin. vi. 22. s. 24), almosttotally unacquainted with diseases and bodily infir­mities (Expos, tut. Mundi, I. a), and consequentlyreaching a very great age (Ctes. l.c,\ St rub. xv.p. 701; Luciau, Macrob. 5). They were armedwith bows and arrows (Hor. Od. L 29. 9; Cliaric.vi. 3). Ptolemy {11. or.) enumerates several dis­tinct tribes of them, as the Annibi, in the extremeN., on the mountains named after them; the Zizyges,between them and the Auxacian mountains; theDamnae, to the S. of these; and elill further S., down to the river Oeehardes, tbe False: tiaOechardae, who dwelt about the river cf the mmname; and the Garenaei and Nabaiinse, to ts* Lrfthe Annibi. To the S. of these again vat the §mtrict of Asmiraea. near tbe mountains cf tie ■name, and still further in the same direeuaIssedones; to the E. of whom were theTo the S. of the I S. of the Throani the Lthaguri. Lastly, co 1extreme southern borders were seated the 1the Ottorocorrae,—tbe latter, who most doasssstlthe same people called by Pliny Attaceri, <like-named mountain. To themust also be ascribed theArrian's PeripL M. Erythr. (p. 37), ibroad foreheads and flat noses, and, from toe <scription of them, evidently a Mongol met.migrated yearly with their wives and ehiidm Ithe borders of Sinae, in order to celebratefestivals there; and when they liad returned Zrinterior of their country, the reed* which they 1behind them, and which had served them for*were carefully gathered up by the Sines*, ia ito prepare from it the Malabathroo, a iointment which they sold in India. (Comp. 1Erdkunde, ii. p. 179, v. p. 443, 2nd ed.; Tdas A tie fndien, ii. p. 173; Heeren'a, /p. 494). According to Ammianus (L c) tb* tof Serica were few in number, but lar^e ana iPtolemy, in the places cited at the bead d tarticle, names fifteen of them, of which tbe Iimportant seem to have been. Sera, the capital sf 4nation; Issedon: Throaua, on the E.dediriry«f4Asmiraei mountains, and on the easternzneiof the Oeehardes; Asmiraea, on the sanr ibut somewhat to the XW. of IAspacara, on the left bank of the iUoiisss, Ifar from its most western source; andcorra. [T.H.I SERIMUM (2*>iM<>r. Ptol. iii. 5. § 2SX a Ion the Borysthcues, in the interior ofSarmatia. [T. H 1 SERl'PHOS or SERI'PHUS (Septet:2fpi'<£ii>5: Serpko),an island in the Atgaasaione of the Cyclades, lyinc between CytbasMSiphnos. According to Pliny (ir. 12- S 13)112 miles in circumference. It pasthe same name, with a harbour. (Serial. JPtol. iii. 15. § 31.) It is celebrated is'as the place w here Danae and Perseus ito shore in the chest in which they had bees «by Acrisiust where Perseus was brvofbiwhere he afterwards turned the inbabkass*^|>tMii«- wit!i the (ii-r^'h's ].. .i,:. (A, i |1 Pind. Pytk. x. 72, xii. 18; Strab. l p.Met. v. 242.) Seriphos was tulonbvd by- ffrom Athens, and it was one of tbe sew i"refused submission to Xerxes. (Herod, fin. 4By subsequent writers Seripbos is almamentioned with contempt on account of iand insignificance (Aristoph. Adun. MS;Rep. i. p. 329; Plat, dt ExtiL 7. p. €03; \A'al. Dear. I 31, de Senect, 3); and it tareason employed by the Roman emperors ]of banishment for state criminaK (Tac.iv. 21; Juv. vi. 564, x. 170; Senec. iIt is curious that the ancient writers ltion of the iron and copper mines of 5were, however, worked in antiquity, aexisting traces, and which, one iwould have t