OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 71 amounted to six hundred and forty-five thousand men: it was reduced, in the timeof Justinian, to one hundred and fifty thousand; and this number, large as it mayseem, was thinly scattered over the sea and land; in Spain and Italy, in Africa andEgypt, on the banks of the Danube, the coast of the Euxine, and the frontiers ofPersia. The citizen was exhausted, yet the soldier was unpaid; his poverty wasmischievously soothed by the privilege of rapine and indolence; and the tardy pay­ments were detained and intercepted by the fraud of those agents who usurp, with­out courage or danger, the emoluments of war. Public and private distress re­cruited the armies of the state; but in the field, and still more in the presence ofthe enemy, their numbers were always defective. The want of national spirit wassupplied by the precarious faith and disorderly service of barbarian mercenaries.Even military honour, which has often survived the loss of virtue and freedom, wasalmost totally extinct. The generals, who were multiplied beyond the example offormer times, laboured only to prevent the success, or to sully the reputation of theircolleagues; and they had been taught by experience, that if merit sometimes pro­voked the jealousy, error, or even guilt, would obtain the indulgence, of a graciousemperor. (1) In such an age the triumphs of Belisarius, and afterward of Narses,shine with incomparable lustre; but they are encompassed with the darkest shadesof disgrace and calamity. While the lieutenant of Justinian subdued the kingdomsof the Goths and Vandals, the emperor, (2) timid, though ambitious, balanced theforces of the barbarians, fomented their divisions by flattery and falsehood, and in­vited by his patience and liberality the repetition of injuries. (3) The keys of Car­thage, Rome, and Ravenna, were presented to their conqueror, while Antiochwas destroyed by the Persians, and Justinian trembled for the safety of Constanti­nople. Even the Gothic victories of Belisarius were prejudicial to the state, since theyabolished the important barrier of the Upper Danub?, which had been so faithful- evacuated Pannonia and Noricum, which they left in a peaceful and flourishingcondition: the sovereignty was claimed by the emperor of the Romans: the actual Possession was abandoned to the boldness of the first invader. On the oppositeanks of the Danube, the plains of Upper Hungary and the Transylvanian hillswere possessed, since the death of Attila, by the tribes of the Gepids, who re­spected the Gothic arms, and despised, not indeed the gold of the Romans, butthe secret motive of their annual subsidies. The vacant fortifications of the riverwere instantly occupied by these barbarians: their standards were planted on thewalls of Sirmium and Belgrade; and the ironical tone of their apology aggravatedthis insult on the majesty of the empire. " So extensive, O Cssar, are your do­minions; so numerous are your cities; that you are continually seeking for nations-to whom, either in peace or war, you may relinquish these useless possessions.The Gepidrc are your brave and faithful allies; and if they have anticipated yourgifts, they have shown a just confidence in your bounty." Their presumption was.excused by the mode of revenge which Justinian embraced. Instead of asserting,the rights of a sovereign for the protection of his subjects, the emperor invited astrange people to invade and possess the Roman provinces between the Danubeand the Alps; and the ambition of the Gepidai was checked by the rising powerand fame of the Lombards. (4) This corrupt appellation has been diffused in the-thirteenth century by the merchants and bankers, the Italian posterity of thesesavage warriors: but the original name of Langobards is expressive only of the pe­culiar length and fashion of their beards. I am not disposed either to question orto justify their Scandinavian origin;(5) nor to pursue the migrations of the Lom- (1) See tlie third and fourth booki of the Gothic War: the writer of the Anecdotes cannot aggravate theseabnses. (2) Agathias, lib. v. p. H7,1J8. He confines this weakness of the emperor and the empire to the old age ofJustinian; but, alas! he was never young. (3) Thin mischievous policy, which Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19.) imputes to the emperor, is revealed in hi*epistles to a Scythian prince, who was capable of understanding it. Ayav wfOftifins x»' ayxwunarwq t saysAgathias (lib. v. p. 170,171.) (4) Gens Germana feritate ferocior, says Velleius, Paterculus of the Lombards(ii. 106.)_ Langobardos pait-citas nobilitat. Plurimisac valentissimis nationibus cincti non per obseqiiium sed prseliis et periclitando tuti-•tint (Tacit, de Moribus German, c. 40.) See likewise Strabo (lib. vii-p. 448.) The best geographers place thembeyond the Elbe, in the bishopric of Magdeburgh and the middle march of Brandenburgh; and their situation,-win agree with the patriotic remark of the count de Henzburg, that most of the barbarian conquerors issued,from the tame countries, which still produce the.armies of Prussia. (i) The Scandinavian origin of the Goths anil Lombards, aa stated by Paul Warnefrid, surnamed the dea­con, is attacked by Cluverius (Get-mania Autiq. lib. iii. c. 20. p. 102, tee.) a native of Prussia, and defended byerotius (Prolegom. ad Hist, Goth. p. 25, &c-)the Swedish ambassador. For the defence of Italy, the Goths -