OCR Output 86 THE DECLINE AND FALl To his sonCommodus. Accession ofthe emperorCommodus. her proofs of the most tender confidence, and of a respect whichended not with her life. In his Meditations, he thanks the gods,who had bestowed on him a wife, so faithful, so gentle, and ofsuch a wonderful simplicity of manners *. The obsequious senate,at his earnest request, declared her a goddess. She was representedin her temples, with the attributes of Juno, Venus, and Ceres;and it was decreed, that, on the day of their nuptials, the youth ofeither sex should pay their vows before the altar of their chastepatroness s. The monstrous vices of the son, have cast a (hade on the purityof the father's virtues. It has been objected to Marcus, that hesacrificed the happiness of millions to a fond partiality for a worth­less boy; and that he chose a successor in his own family, ratherthan in the republic. Nothing, however, was neglected by the an­xious father, and by the men of virtue and learning whom hesummoned to his assistance, to expand the narrow mind of youngCommodus, to correct his growing vices, and to render him wor­thy of the throne, for which he was designed. But the power ofinstruction is seldom of much efficacy, except in those happy dis­positions where it is almost superfluous. The distasteful lesson of agrave philosopher was, in a moment, obliterated by the whisper ofa .profligate favourite; and Marcus himself blasted the fruits of thislaboured education, by admitting his son, at the age of fourteenor fifteen, to a full participation of the Imperial power. He livedbut four years afterwards; but he lived long enough to repent arash measure, which raised the impetuous youth above the restraintof reason and authority.; Most of the crimes which disturb the internal peace of society, areproduced by the restraints which the necessary, but unequal lawsof property, have imposed on the appetites of mankind, by con­fining to a few the possession of those objects that are coveted bymany. Of all our passions, the love of power is of the most im­perious