OCR Output 136 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. Pericles seeing their minds thus chagrined by the presentstate of their affairs, and in consequence of this intent uponunadviseable measures, but assured within himself of theprudence of his own conduct in thus restraining them fromaction, called no general assembly of the people, nor heldany public consultation, lest passion, which was more alivethan judgment, should throw them into indiscretions. Hekept strict guard in the city, and endeavoured as much aspossible to preserve the public quiet. Yet he was alwayssending out small parties of horse, to prevent any damagethat might be done near the city, by adventurous stragglersfrom the army. By this means, there happened once atPhrygii a skirmish between one troop of the Athenian horseaccompanied by some Thessalians, and the horsemen of Boe-otia, in which the Athenians and Thessalians maintainedtheir ground, till some heavy armed foot reinforced the Ba-otian horse. Then they were forced to turn about, and somefew, both Thessalians and Athenians, were slain. Howeverthey fetched off their bodies the same day without the enemy'sLeave, and the next day the Peloponnesians erected a trophy.The aid sent now by the Thessalians was in consequence ofan ancient alliance between them and the Athenians. Theseauxiliaries consisted of Larisseans, Pharsalians, Parasians,Cranonians, Peirasians, Gyrtonians, Pheraeans. Those fromLarissa were commanded by Polymedes and Aristonus, eachheading those of his own faction; those from Pharsalus, byMenon ; and those from the rest of the cities had their res­pective commanders. The Peloponnesians, when the Athenians made no shew ofcoming out against them, broke up from Acharnae, and laidwaste some other of the Athenian boroughs, which lay betweenthe mountains Parnethus and Brilissus. During the time of these incursions, the Athenians sentout the hundred ships they had already equipped, and whichhad on board a thousand heavy-armed soldiers and four hun­dred archers, to infest the coast of Peloponnesus. The com­