OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 89 if in Tellers, to slaughter. The targeteers of the Celti-berians being thus almost intirely cut off, the lighttroops and the Carthaginians, who had come from theother camp to support them, were quickly routed andput to the sword. About two thousand foot and allthe cavalry fled with Mago at the very onset. Hanno,the other general, and those who came up last, afterthe battle was decided, were taken alive. Almost thewhole of the cavalry, and what veteran infantry theybad, following Mago in his flight, came on the tenthday to Hasdrubal in the province of Gades: the Celti-berian soldiers, being newly levied, dispersed into theneighboring woods, and thence escaped to their re­spective homes. By this seasonable victory was sup­pressed a war, which was not of so much importanceon account of its present magnitude, as of its being afoundation from which one much more considerablemight have arisen, had the enemy been allowed, afterhaving roused the Celtiberians to arms, to persuadethe other stales to join in the same cause. Scipio,therefore, having bestowed liberal commendations onSilamis, and seeing reason to hope that he might beable to finish the dispute at once by exerting himselfwith proper activity, advanced into Farther Spainagainst Hasdrubal. The Carthaginian (who happenedat that time to have his army in Baetica, for the pur­pose of securing the fidelity of his allies in that coun­try), decamping hastily, led it away, in a manner muchmore resembling a flight than a march, quite to theocean and Gades. He was fearful, however, that aslong as he kept bis forces together, he should be con­sidered as the primary object of the enemy's opera­tions. Before he passed over the strait to Gades, hetherefore dispersed them into the different cities; inthe view, likewise, that they might provide for theirown safety by help of walls, and for that of the townsby their arms. 3. When Scipio found that the enemy's troops werethus widely scattered, and that the carrying abouthis own to each of the several cities would be a very