OCR Output 268 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. individuals. By these inquisitors the trial was pre-xxxvii. pared and directed; but they could only pronouncethe sentence of the majority of judges, who with sometruth, and more prejudice, have been compared toSelect the English juries. To discharge this importantjudges. though burdensome office, an annual list of ancientand respectable citizens was formed by the praetor.After many constitutional struggles, they were chosenin equal numbers from the senate, the equestrianorder, and the people; four hundred and fifty wereappointed for single questions; and the various rollsor decuries of judges must have contained the namesof some thousand Romans, who represented the ju­dicial authority of the state. In each particular cause,a sufficient number was drawn from the urn; theirintegrity was guarded by an oath; the mode of ballotsecured their independence; the suspicion of parti­ality was removed by the mutual challenges of theaccuser and defendant; and the judges of Milo, bythe retrenchment of fifteen on each side, were reducedto fifty-one voices or tablets, of acquittal, of condemna­tion, or of favourable doubt*. 3. In his civil ju­risdiction, the praetor of the city was truly a judge,and almost a legislator; but as soon as he had pre­scribed the action of law, he often referred to a de­legate the determination of the fact. With the in­crease of legal proceedings, the tribunal of the cen-tumvirs, in which he presided, acquired more weightand reputation. But whether he acted alone, or withthe advice of his council, the most absolute powersmight be trusted to a magistrate who was annuallychosen by the votes of the people. The rules andprecautions of freedom have required some explana­tion; the order of despotism is simple and inanimate. • We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconius Pcdianus,who flourished under the reign of Tiberius. The loss of his Commentaries onthe Orations of Cicero has deprived us of a valuable fund of historical and legalknowledge.