OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. this insult was a coarse allusion to the white bands whichenveloped their legs. "Add another resemblance, (re­plied an audacious Lombard) you have felt how stronglythey kick. Visit the plain of Asfield, and seek for thebones of thy brother: they are mingled with those ofthe vilest animals." The Gepidas, a nation of warriors,started from their seats, and the fearless Alboin, with hisforty companions, laid their hands on their swords. Thetumult was appeased by the venerable interposition ofTurisund. He saved his own honour and the life of hisguest; and, after the solemn rites of investiture, dismissedthe stranger in the bloody arms of his son—the gift of aweeping parent. Alboin returned in triumph; and theLombards, who celebrated his matchless intrepidity, werecompelled to praise the virtues of an enemyIn thisextraordinary visit he had probably seen the daughter ofCunimund, who soon after ascended the throne of theGepidas. Her name was Rosamond, an appellation ex­pressive of female beauty, and which our own history orromance has consecrated to amorous tales. The king ofthe Lombards (the father of Alboin no longer lived) wascontracted to the grand-daughter of Clovis; but the re­straints of faith and policy soon yielded to the hope ofpossessing the fair Rosamond, and of insulting her familyand nation. The arts of persuasion were tried withoutsuccess: and the impatient lover, by force and stratagem,obtained the object of his desires. War was the conse­quence which he foresaw and solicited; but the Lom­bards could not long withstand the furious assault of theGepidae, who were sustained by a Roman army. And asthe offer of marriage was rejected with contempt, Alboinwas compelled to relinquish his prey, and to partake ofthe disgrace which he had inflicted on the house of Cu­nimund.' h Paul Warnefrid, the deacon of Friuli, de Gest. Langohard. lib. 1. c. 23, 24.His pictures of national manners, though rudely sketched, are more lively and faith­ful than those of Bede, or Gregory of Tours. 1 The story is told by an impostor, (Theopbylact. Symocat. Ub. 6. c. 10.) but hehad art enough to build his fictions on public and notorious facts.