OCR Output 42 ROMAN EMPIRE, death of holy), Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts! isA^D.Iwt9'supposed, by the Greeks, to be the identical—SIB. hymn which the angels and cherubim eternallyrepeat before the throne of God, and which, about themiddle of the fifth century, was miraculously revealedto the church of Constantinople. The devotion of An-tioch soon added, who was crucified for us.' and thisgrateful address, either to Christ alone, or to the wholeTrinity, may be justified by the rules of theology, andhas been gradually adopted by the Catholics of the eastand west. But it had been imagined by a Monophysitebishop :b the gift of an enemy was at first rejected as adire and dangerous blasphemy, and the rash innovationhad nearly cost the emperor Anastasius his throne andhis life.1 The people of Constantinople was devoid ofany rational principles of freedom; but they held, asa lawful cause of rebellion, the colour of a livery in theraces, or the colour of a mystery in the schools. TheTrisagion, with and without this obnoxious addition,was chanted in the cathedral by two adverse choirs, and,when their 1 ungs were exhausted, they had recourse tothe more solid arguments of sticks and stones: the ag­gressors were punished by the emperor, and defendedby the patriarch; and the crown and the mitre werestaked on the event of this momentous quarrel. Thestreets were instantly crowded with innumerable swarmsof men, women, and children; the legions of monks, inregular array, marched, and shouted, and fought at theirhead,—Christians! this is the day of martyrdom; let usnot desert our spiritual father; anathema to the Mani-chcean tyrant; he is unworthy to reign. Such was the who was taken up into heaven before the bishop and people of Constantinople,the song was considerably improved. The boy heard the angels sing " Holy God!Holy Strong! Holy Immortal! h Peter Guapheus, the fuller (a trade which he had exercised in his monastery),patriarch of Antioch. His tedious story is discussed in the Annals of Pagi,(A. D. 477—490.) and a dissertation of M. de Valois at the end of his Evagrius. 1 The troubles under the reign of Anastasius must be gathered from the chroniclesof Victor, Marcelliuus, and Theophanes. As the last was not published in thetime of Baionius, his critic Fagi is more copius, as well as more correct.