OCR Output 316 ROMAN EMPIRE. javelin; two of his teeth were shattered with a stone;yet, in the midst of tumult and dismay, he reproachedthe infidels with the murder of a prophet; and blessedthe friendly hand that stanched his blood, and conveyedhim to a place of safety. Seventy martyrs died for thesins of the people; they fell, said the apostle, in pairs,each brother embracing his lifeless companion:" theirbodies were mangled by the inhuman females of Mecca;and the wife of Abu Sophian tasted the entrails ofHamza, the uncle of Mahomet. They might applaudtheir superstition and satiate their fury; but the Mus­sulmans soon rallied in the field, and the Koreish wantedstrength or courage to undertake the siege of Medina.The na- It was attacked the ensuing year by an army ofthTditch, ten thousand enemies; and this third expeditionA.D. 625. is variously named from the nations, whichmarched under the banner of Abu Sophian, from theditch which was drawn before the city, and a camp ofthree thousand Mussulmans. The prudence of Maho­met declined a general engagement; the valour of Aliwas signalized in single combat; and the war was pro­tracted twenty days, till the final separation of the con­federates. A tempest of wind, rain, and hail, overturnedtheir tents; the private quarrels were fomented by aninsidious adversary; and the Koreish, deserted by theirallies, no longer hoped to subvert the throne, or to checkthe conquests, of their invincible exile.'Mahomet The choice of Jerusalem for the first kebla ofthe"jUews prayer discovers the early propensity of Mahometof Arabia, m favour of the Jews; and happy would it have623-^-627. been for their temporal interest, had they recog­nised, in the Arabian prophet, the hope of Israel and thepromised Messiah. Their obstinacy converted his friend- • In the third chapter of the Koran (p. 50—53. with Sale's notes), the prophetalleges some poor excuses for the defeat of Ohud. 1 For the detail of the three Koreish wars, of Beder, of Ohud, and of the ditch,peruse Abulfeda, (p. 56—61. 64—69. 73—77.) Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 23—45. 7O-96.120—139.) with the proper articles of D'Herbelot, and the abridgments ofElmaciu, (Hist. Saracen, p. 6,7.) and Abulpharagius. (Dynast, p. 102.)