OCR Output DISCOURSE III. Ixxxix disconcerts the main project of the Athenians.—The latteralso had another great scheme in agitation for a total revo­lution in Boeotia. Arms and intrigues were at once to act,both without and within. The whole force of Athens takesthe field on this occasion, under the command of Hippo­crates. The famous battle of Delium ensues, before whichthe generals harangue their troops. Pagondas the Thebanis an excellent speaker on this occasion. The Boeotians arenot represented in this history, as that gross and stupid peo­ple, which was their character from the succeeding wits ofAthens. The Athenian general begins also to harangue histroops, but is cut short by the attack of the enemy. Thebattle is finely described, and the dispute afterwards aboutthe dead. The Athenians have received a dreadful blow,which will soon make them begin to accuse their own judg­ments^ in refusing the accommodation lately offered fromSparta. In other quarters also, the balance of war begins to in­cline in favour of the enemy. Brasidas, that active and ac­complished Spartan, had now compleated a march, at thehead of a small army, through Thessaly and Macedonia intoChalcidic Thrace. His bravery prevails much, but his con­duct more. He disjoins Perdiccas king of Macedonia fromthe Athenian league. Whenever he fights, he conquers;and whenever he harangues, he effectually persuades. Hisspeech to the Acanthians is strong, pertinent, laconic. Hesays all that can be said in favour of his countrymen, inrecommendation of the cause of liberty. There is that airof sincerity and good-faith in it, which were constantly ap­proved and verified by his personal deportment. The townsrevolt to him as fast he hath opportunities to address them.The reader will follow him with pleasure through his manyand great exploits, and acknowledge he wears his laurelsdeservedly, and with peculiar grace. Book V. In Book the Fifth, Cleon appears again uponthe stage, to stop the rapid conquests of Brasidas. The for- Vol. I. M