OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 105 of nature was most vigorously shewn ; and by it, he was sohighly distinguished above the bulk of mankind, as to deservethe greatest admiration. By the mere force of his naturalgenius, without any improvement from study, either in hisyouth or more advanced age, he could give the best adviceupon sudden emergencies with the least hesitation, and washappy in his conjectures about the events of the future.Whatever he undertook he was able to accomplish ; andwherein he was quite inexperienced, he had so prompt a dis­cernment that he never was mistaken. In a matter of ambi­guity, he foresaw with extraordinary acuteness the better andthe worse side of the question. Upon the whole, by the forceof natural genius, he was most quick at all expedients, and atthe same time excellent, beyond competition, at declaring in­stantly the most advisable measures of acting upon every oc­currence. But, being seized with a fit of sickness, his life isat an end. Some indeed report, that he put an end to hisown life by taking poison, when he judged it impossible toperform what he had promised the king. His monument how­ever is at Magnesia in Asia, in the forum. Of this provincehe was governor through the bounty of the king, who assignedhim Magnesia (which yielded him fifty talents* yearly,) forhis bread, Lampsacus for his wine, (which place was in thegreatest repute for wine,) and Myus for his meat. His bonesare said to have been conveyed home by his relations, in pur­suance of his own desire, and to have been interred in Atticawithout the privity of the Athenians. For it was against lawto bury him there, as he had been outlawed for treason}. • 9,687/. 10*. Sterling t Some authors have related, that his countrymen afterwards honouredhim with a cenotaph in the Piraeus. Plutarch however disbelieves thefact, and thinks it merely a presumption formed on the following verses ofPlato, the comic poet. To thee, Themistocles, a tomb is due,Plac'd in the most conspicuous point of view ;Merchants from every port with just acclaimShould shout thy honour, and confess thy fame ;