OCR Output 174 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. have occupied the modern Switzerland, Suabia, and Fran-Boii. conia. Adjacent to them dwelt the Boii, whose settlements were probably in the modern Bavaria and Bohemia.* Tothe south-east of these we meet with another Celtic stock,which made its appearance in Styria and Carinthia underTaurisci. the name of the Taurisci and afterwards of the Norici,Cami. in Friuli, Carniola, and Istria under that of the Carni.Their city Noreia (not far from St. Veit to the north of Kla-genfurt) was flourishing and widely known from the ironmines that were even at that time zealously wrought inthose regions; still more were the Italians at this veryperiod allured thither by the rich seams of gold brought tolight there, till the natives excluded them and took thisCalifornia of that day into their own hands. These Celtichordes streaming along on both sides of the Alps had aftertheir fashion occupied chiefly the flat and hill country; theAlpine region proper and likewise the district along theAdige and the lower Po were not occupied by them, andremained in the hands of the earlier indigenous population.Nothing certain has as yet been ascertained as to thenationality of the latter; but they appear under the nameof the Raeti in the mountains of East Switzerland and theTyrol, and under that of the Euganei and Veneti aboutPadua and Venice; so that at this last point the two greatCeltic streams almost touched each other, and only a narrowbelt of native population separated the Celtic Cenomani * "The Helv-etii dwelt," Tacitus says (Germ. 28)," between the HercynianForest (s. e., here probably the Rauhe Alp), the Rhine, and the Main; theBoii further on." Posidonius also (op. Strab. vii. 293) states that the Boii, atthe time when they repulsed the Cimbri, inhabited the Hercynian Forest, •'. e.,the mountains from the Rauhe Alp to the Bohmerwald. The circumstancethat Caesar transplants them " beyond the Rhine " (B. G. i. 5) is by no meansinconsistent with this, for, as he there speaks from the Helvetian point ofview, he may very well mean the country to the north-east of the lake ofConstance; which quite accords with the fact, that Strabo (vii. 292) describesthe former Boian country as bordering on the lake of Constance, except that heis not quite accurate in naming along with them the Vindelici as dwelling bythe lake of Constance, for the latter only established themselves there afterthe Boii had evacuated these districts. From these settlements the Boii weredispossessed by the Marcomanni and other Germanic tribes even before the time100. of Posidonius, consequently before 650; detached portions of them in Caesar'stime roamed about in Carinthia (/?. G. i. 5), and came thence to the Helvetiiand into western Gaul; another swarm found new settlements on the Platten-• 50. see, where it was annihilated about 700 by the Getae; but the district—the"Boian desert," as it was called—preserved the name of this the most ha­rassed of all the Celtic peoples (comp. ii. 197, note).