OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. one he struck dead the foremost of the assailants; withthe other he received the weapons which every hand wasambitious to aim against his life. After a combat ofmany hours, his left arm was fatigued by the weight oftwelve javelins which hung from his shield. Withoutmoving from his ground, or suspending his blows, thehero called aloud on his attendants for a fresh buckler,but in the moment, while his side was uncovered, it waspierced by a mortal dart. He fell: and his head, exalt­ed on a spear, proclaimed to the nations, that the Gothic -kingdom was no more. But the example of his deathserved only to animate the companions who had swornto perish with their leader. They fought till darknessdescended on the earth. They reposed on their arms.The combat was renewed with the return of light, andmaintained with unabated vigour till the evening of thesecond day. The repose of a second night, the want of,water, and the loss of their bravest champions, deter­mined the surviving Goths to accept the fair capitulationwhich the prudence of Narses was inclined to propose.They embraced the alternative of residing in Italy as thesubjects and soldiers of Justinian, or departing with aportion of their private wealth, in search of some inde­pendent country/ Yet the oath of fidelity or exile wasalike rejected by one thousand Goths, who broke awaybefore the treaty was signed, and boldly effected theirretreat to the walls of Pavia. The spirit, as well as thesituation, of Aligern, prompted him to imitate ratherthan to bewail his brother; a strong and dexterous ar­cher, he transpierced with a single arrow the armour andbreast of his antagonist; and his military conduct de­fended CumasJ above a year against the forces of the * Buat (torn. 11. p. 2, &c.) conveys to his favourite Bavaria this remnant of Goths,who by others are buried in the mountains of Uri, or restored to their native isle ofGothland. (Mascoo, Annot. 21.). y I leave Scaliger (Aniiuadvers. in Euseb. p. 59.) and Salmasins, (Exercilat.,Plinian. p. 5.1, 52.) to quarrel about the origin of Curnac, the oldest of the Greek colo­nics in Italy, (Strab. lib. 5. p. 372. Velleius Paterculus, lib. 1. c. 4.) already vacantin Juvenal's time, (Satir. 3.) and now in ruins,'