OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 221 and the judges of his innocence; and it was not with­out reluctance, that the conqueror of the Saxons delayedtill the ensuing year the personal discharge of thispious office. In his fourth and last pilgrimage, he wasreceived at Rome with the due honours of king andpatrician: Leo was permitted to purge himself by oathof the crimes imputed to his charge; his enemies weresilenced, and the sacrilegious attempt against his life waspunished by the mild and insufficient penalty of exile.On the festival of Christmas, the last year of the eighthcentury, Charlemagne appeared in the church of St.Peter; and, to gratify the vanity of Rome, he had ex­changed the simple dress of his country for the habitof a patrician/ After the celebration of the holy mys­teries, Leo suddenly placed a precious crown on hishead," and the dome resounded with the acclamationsof the people,—Long life and victory to Charles, themost pious Augustw, crowned by God the great and pa­cific emperor of the Romans! The head and body ofCharlemagne were consecrated by the royal unction:after the example of the Caesars he was saluted oradored by the pontiff; his coronation-oath represents apromise to maintain the faith and privileges of thechurch; and the first-fruits were paid in his rich offer­ings to the shrine of the apostle. In his familiar con­versation, the emperor protested his ignorance of theintentions of Leo, which he would have disappointedby his absence on that memorable day. But the pre­parations of the ceremony must have disclosed thesecret; and the journey of Charlemagne reveals hisknowledge and expectation; he had acknowledged that > Twice, at I!»' request of Hadrian and Leo, he appeared at Rome—long;'i tunicft etchlauivdc amictus, et calceamentisquoque Romano more forniatis. Eginhard(c. 23.109—113.) describes, like Suetonius, the simplicity of his dress, so popular in thenation; that when Charles the Bald returned to France in a foreign habit, the patri­otic dogs barked at the apostate. (Gaillard, Vie de Charlemagne, torn. 4. p. 109.) » See Ana>tasius(p. 199.)and Eginhard. (c. 28. p. 124—128.) The unction ismentioned by Theophanes, (p. 399.) the oath by Sigonius (from the Ordo Romanus),and the pope's adoration more antiquorum pnncipum, by the Annales Bertiniani.(Script. Murator. torn. ?. pan 2. p. 505.)