OCR Output 474 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. the ruin of the proudest monument of Christianity wasvehemently urged by the intolerant spirit of the Magi;and he could inlist, for this holy warfare, an army of sixand twenty thousand Jews, whose furious bigotry mightcompensate, in some degree, for the want of valour anddiscipline. After the reduction of Galilee, and the re­gion beyond the Jordan, whose resistance appears to havedelayed the fate of the capital, Jerusalem itself was takenby assault. The sepulchre of Christ, and the statelychurches of Helena and Constantine, were consumed, orat least damaged, by the flames; the devout offerings ofthree hundred years were rifled in one sacrilegious day;the patriarch Zachariah, and the true cross, were trans­ported into Persia; and the massacre of ninety thousandChristians is imputed to the Jews and Arabs who swelledthe disorder of the Persian march. The fugitives ofPalestine were entertained at Alexandria by the charityof John the archbishop, who is distinguished among acrowd of saints by the epithet of alms-giver :v and the re­venues of the church, with a treasure of three hundredthousand pounds, were restored to the true proprietors,the poor of every country and every denomination. ButEgypt itself, the only province which had been exempt,since the time of Diocletian, from foreign and domesticof Egypt, war, was again subdued by the successors of Cyrus. Pe-a. d. 616. jusjumj f-ne of tnat impervious country, was surprisedby the cavalry of the Persians: they passed, with impu­nity, the innumerable channels of the Delta, and exploredthe long valley of the Nile, from the pyramids of Mem­phis to the confines of ./Ethiopia. Alexandria mighthave been relieved by a naval force, but the archbishopand the prefect embarked for Cyprus; and Chosroes en­tered the second city of the empire, which still preserveda wealthy remnant of industry and commerce. His west­ern trophy was erected, not on the walls of Carthage/* P The life of this wortby saint is composed by Leontius, a contemporary hishop;and I find in Baronins, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 610. no. 10, &c.) and Fleury, (torn.8. p. 235—*242.) sufficient extracts of this edifying work. i The error of Bnronius, and many others who hare carried the arms of Chosroes