OCR Output PHOENICIA.PHOENICIA. 617 A; ifota. <W xir. 285.) The importation of■iy triakeU, &c, in Phoenician ships, is con- iiladed to in the Homeric poems; but the.cRffoa* ire as constantly described as a craftyseal iw, who were ever bent on entrapping thew. (A vi. 290. xxiii. 743, &c.) It wouldikurd, Werer, to suppose that they were alwaystalent in their dealings. Ezekiel (xxvii.)w* t glowing picture of their commerce and of1 ^tuuur of their vessels. From his descriptionui fith«r the following particulars. Tho tradeiu I'lweoiciani with the Erythraean sea, com-*i myrrh, frankincense, precious stones,! r&saud. The coast of Africa S. of Bab-el- jic-daced frankincense and spices superiori-w rf Arabia. The cotton garments mentionedt:- pnrpLrf were probably Indian fabrics, and"Shfbt irun" Indian steel. Ezekiel mentions'. -ra u forming their trade with Egypt, but * > * that tbey aiw drew their supplies of corni lirag. (Isaiah, xxiii. 3.) In return for thesei ■ Urt, the Phoenicians supplied the Egyptians. * v. with asphalt for their embalmments, and*4f with incense fur their temples. (Herod.I, Dial xix. 99.) Their traffic with Syria and'r'UT-i», he&ules the indigenous products of't-ci^riw, probably included Indian articles,ta <an» by that route. Babylon, which is calledLaid (xrii. 4) a city of merchants, must havei1 fjore of peat trade, and besides the trafficI l rxrried on by means of its canal communi-a »ck the Tigris, had manufactures of its own,T*i'f eaibn«dr-nt>. With Nineveh also, whilevjW, the Phoenicians must have had an ex-t't aTOmerre. The neighbouring Judaea fur-eJ *j*q with wheat, grape-honey, oil, and balm;'-n the pastoral nations of Arabia they pro-: urrp jflj goats. Proceeding to more northern •« tnd Damascus supplying them with'»-W and the precious wiue of Helbon. Ar-j. iii the countries bordering on the southern andotm of the Euxine—the modern Georgiat^tjifia— furnished horses, mules, and slaves;t'.-:*r and the tunny fish. Phoenicia had■ttatty great commercial intercourse withla a is evident from the fact that the Grecian * lr the principal objects of oriental commerce,avrr tpkes and perfumes, were derived fromiw^tcmii. (Herod, iii. 111.) In the time>'•."<.* a Phoenician vessel seems regularly to**fia4 the Peiraeeua. (Xenopt). Otcon. c. 8.)- «r Tsrtessu.*, the modern Andalusia, was * -i- abenoe the Phoenicians der.ved their-• c, uo. and lead. Silver was so abundant ta cdQBtry tliat tbey substituted it for the« <ic*l which served as anchors. At a lateri pncored their tin from Britain. Theyif iw tu have trailed on the NW. coast of■ s> fir u Senegal, as well as to the Fortunate^ * (tmaries. They must also, of course,■rru^i ic «treat trade with their many colonies,i tam will be occasion to enumerate in the * v teflon. It is remarkable that Ezekiel"! ^<rihea tbe nations a--* bringing their wares * -«xiriaiu. and the latter are not mentionedank to fetch them. The caravan trade ^ tfeai *hae hare been in the hands of thek *frm and Arabian tribes by whom ther*-w wtre surrounded, and the business ofhow esamsted ta distributing by voyages to --ci cauls of the Mediterranean tbe articles I which haa thus been brought to them overland.(Herod, i. 1.) At a later period, however, they ■ seem to have themselves engaged in the caravantrade, and we have already mentioned their journeysin the track of Alexander. Their pedlars, or retaildealers, probably traversed Syria and Palestine fromthe earliest times. (Proverbs, xxxi. 24; JsaiaK,xxiii. 8.) In some foreign towns the Phoenicianshad factories, or settlements for the purposes oftrade. Thus the Tynans had a tish-market atJerusalem (Nehemiah, xiu. 16), chiefly perhaps forthe salted tunnies which they brought from theEuxine. They had also a settlement at Memphis(Herod, ii. 112), and, after the close of the warsbetween the Greeks and Persians, at Athens, asalready related, as well as in other places. In their original seats on the Persian Gulf thePhoenicians used only rafts (Plin. vii. 57); but onthe coasts of the Mediterranean they constructedregular vessels. In their early voyages, whichcombined piracy with trade, they probably employedthe penteconter, a long and swift vessel of 50 oars.(Comp. Herod, i. 163.) The trireme, or ship of war,and gaulos, or tub-like merchantman adapted forstowage, which took its name from a milk-pail,were later inventions. (Ibid. iii. 136.) The excel­lent arrangements of a Phoenician vessel are de­scribed in a passage of Xenophon before cited.(Oecon. 8 ; cf. Heliodor. v. 18 ; Isaiah, ii. 16.) Wehave already described the Paiaeci, or figure-headsof their vessels. The Phoenicians were the first tosteer by observation of the stars (Plin. vii. 56;Manil. L 297, sqq-); and could thus venture out tosea whilst the Greeks and Konians were still creepingalong the coast. Astronomy indeed had been pre­viously studied by the Egyptians and Babylonians,but the Phoenicians were the first who appliedarithmetic to it, and thus made it practically u>eful. i (Strab. xvi. 757.) Herodotus (iv. 42) relates astory that, at the instance of Neco, king of Egypt, aPhoenician vessel circumnavigated Africa, nettingoff from the Red Sea and returning by the Mediter­ranean; and though the father of history doubtedthe account himself, yet the details which he givesare in themselves so probable, and the assertion ofthe circumnavigators that they hud the sun on theirright hand, or to the N. of them, as must reallyhave been the case, is so unlikely to have been in­vented, that there seems to be no good reason fordoubting the achievement. (Comp. Ropnell, Geogr. ofHerodotus, p. 682, sqq.; Grote, Hist, of Greece,iii. pp. 377, sqq.) IX. Colonies. The foundation of colonies forms so marked afeature in Phoenician history, that it is necessary togive a general sketch of the colonial system of thePhoenicians, although an account of each settlementappears under its proper head. Their position madethem a commercial and maritime people, and thenature of their country, which would not admit ofa great increase of inhabitants, led them to plantcolonies. Before the rise of the maritime power ofthe Greeks they had the command of the sea formany centuries, and their colonisation thus proceededwithout interruption. Their settlements, like thoseof the Greeks, were of the true nature of colonies,and not, like the Roman system, mere military occu­pations , that is, a portion of the population migratedto and settled in these distant possessions. Hencethey resembled our own colonies in America or