OCR Output 136 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV. ho left them, and went into the mountainous part of thecountry. So he proclaimed liberty to those in slavery, anda reward to those already free, and got together a set ofwicked men from all quarters. 4. And as he had now a strong body of men about him,he overran the villages that lay in the mountainous country;and when there were still more and more that came to him,he ventured to go down into the lower parts of the country;and since he was now become formidable to the cities, manyof the men of power were corrupted by him; so that hisarmy was no longer composed of slaves and robbers, but agreat many of the populace were obedient to him as to theirking. He then overran the Acrabattene toparchy, and theplaces that reached as far as the great Idumea; for he builta wall at a certain village called Nain, and made use of thatas a fortress for his own party's security; and at the valleycalled Pharan, he enlarged many of the caves, and manyothers he found ready for his purpose; these he made use ofas repositories for his treasures and receptacles for his prey,and therein he laid up the fruits that he had got by rapine;and many of his partisans had their dwelling in them ; andho made no secret of it that he was exercising his men before­hand, and making preparations for the assault of Jerusalem.5. AVhereupon the zealots, out of the dread they were inof his attacking them, and being willing to prevent one thatwas growing up to oppose them, went out against him withtheir wenpons. Simon met them, and joining battle with them,slew a considerable number of them, and drove the rest beforehim into the city, but durst not trust so much upon his forcesas to make an assault upon the walls; but he resolved firstto subdue Idumea; and as he had now twenty thousandarmed men, he marched to the borders of their country.Hereupon the rulers of the Idumeans got together on thesudden the most warlike part of their people, about twenty-five thousand in number, and permitted the rest to be a guardto their own country, by reason of the incursions that weremade by the Sicarii that were at Masada. Thus they receivedSimon at their borders, where they fought him, and continued