OCR Output 218 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. During the time this fleet was out at sea, though theAthenians at the commencement of the war had as large ifnot a larger number of ships, yet they never had their wholenavy so completely fitted out for service and with so muchpomp as now. One hundred of their ships were stationedfor guards round Attica and Euboea and Salamis ; and ano­ther hundred were coasting all along Peloponnesus, beside those that were at Potidaea, and in other parts, insomuch that the whole number employed this summer amounted totwo hundred and fifty sail. The expence of this, with thatof Potidaea, quite exhausted their treasure. For the pay^ ofthe heavy-armed who were stationed at Potidaea, was twodrachmas a day, each of them receiving a drachma* forhimself and another for his servant. The number of thefirst body sent thither was three thousand, and not fewerthan those were employed during the whole siege ;—but thesixteen hundred who came with Phormio were ordered awaybefore its conclusion. The whole fleet also had the samepay. In this manner was their public treasure now for thefirst time exhausted—and such a navy, the largest they everhad, compleatly manned. The Mityleneans, during the time the Lacedaemonianslay at the Isthmus, with a body of their own and auxiliariesmarched by land against Methymne, expecting to have itbetrayed to them. Having assaulted the place, and beingdisappointed in their expectations, they marched back byway of Antissa and Pyra and Eressus. In each of theseplaces they halted for a while, to settle affairs in as firm or­der as possible, and to strengthen their walls, and then with*out loss of time returned to Mitylene. Upon their departure, the Methymneans marched outagainst Antissa. The Antisseans with a party of auxiliariessallying out to meet them, gave them a terrible blow, so thatmany of them were left dead upon the spot, and those whoescaped made the best of their way back. The Athenians—advised of these incidents, and that fur- • Seven pence three farthings.