OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIBE. tt* milay temper was diffused among the subjects of the caliph. Their stern enthu­siasm was softened by time and prosperity: they sought riches in the occupations ofindustry, fame in the pursuits of literature, and happiness in the tranquillity of do­mestic life. War was no longer the passion of the Saracens; and the increase ofpay, the repetition of donatives, were insufficient to allure the posterity of thosevoluntary champions who had crowded to the standard of Abubeker and Omarfor the hopes of spoil and of paradise. Under the reign of the Ommiades, the studies of the Moslems were confinedto the interpretation of the Koran, and the eloquence and poetry of their native-tongue. A people continually exposed to the dangers of the field must esteem thehealing powers of medicine, or rather of surgery; but the starving physicians ofArabia murmured a complaint, that exercise and temperance deprived them ofthe greatest part of their practice. (1) After their civil and domestic wars, thesubjects of the Abbassides, awakening from this mental lethargy, found leisure,and felt curiosity, for the acquisition of profane science. This spirit was first en­couraged by the caliph Almansor, who besides his knowledge of the Mahometanlaw, had applied himself with success to the study of astronomy. But when thesceptre devolved to Almamon, the seventh of the Abbassides, he completed the' designs of his grandfather, and invited the Muses from their ancient seats. Hisambassadors at Constantinople, his agents in Armenia, Syria and Egypt, collectedthe volumes of the Grecian science: at his command they were translated by themost skilful interpreters into the Arabic language; his subjects were exhorted as­siduously to peruse these instructive writings; and the successor of Mahomet as­sisted with pleasure and modesty at the assemblies and disputations of the learned," He was not ignorant," says Abulpharagius, " that they are the elect of God, hisbest and most useful servants, whose lives are devoted to the improvement of theirrational faculties." The mean ambition of the Chinese and Turks may glory inthe industry of their hands, or the indulgence of their brutal appetites. Vet thesedexterous artists must view with hopeless emulation, the hexagons and pyramidsof the cells of a bee-hive :(2) these fortitudinous heroes are awed by the superiorfierceness of the lions and tigers; and in their amorous enjoyments, they are muchinferior to the vigour of the grossest, and most sordid of the quadrupeds. Theteachers of wisdom are the true luminaries and legislators ot a world, which,without their aid, would again sink in ignorance and barbarism. "(3) The zealand curiosity of Almamon were imitated by succeeding princes of the line of Ab­bas: their rivals, the Fatimites of Africa and the Ommiades.of Spain, were thepatrons of the learned, as well as the commanders of the faithful: the same royalprerogative was claimed by their independent emirs of the provinces: and theiremulation diffused the taste and the rewards of science from Samarcand and Bocharato Fez and Cordova. The vizier of a sultan consecrated a sum of two hundredthousand pieces of gold to the foundation of a college at Bagdad, which he en­dowed with an annual revenue of fifteen thousand dinars. The fruits of instruc­tion were communicated, perhaps at different times, to six thousand disciples ofevery degree, from the son of the noble to that of the mechanic: a sufficient al­lowance was provided for the indigent scholars; and the merit or industry of theprofessors was repaid with adequate stipends. In every city the productions ofArabic literature were copied and collected by the curiosity of the studious, andthe vanity of the rich. A private doctor refused the invitation of the sultan ofBochara, because the carriage of his books would have required four hundredcamels. The royal library of the Fatimites consisted of one hundred thousandmanuscripts, elegantly transcribed and splendidly bound, which were lent, with­out jealousy or avarice, to the students of Cairo. Yet this collection must appearmoderate, if we can believe that the Ommiades of Spain had formed a library ofsix hundred thousand volumes, forty-four of which were employed in the mere (1) The Gulistau (p. 289.) relates the conversation or Mahomet and* physician, (Epiitol. Rrnaudot. in Fa,nciui, Bibliot. G rac. torn. i. p. SIS.) The prophet himself was skilled in the art of medicine; and Gainier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. iii. p. 354—405.) has given on extract of the aphorisms which are extant under his name. (2) See their curious architecture in Resurnar. (Hist, des Insects, torn. v. Memoire 8.) These hexajrnns av«elosed by a pyramid; the angles of the three sides of a similar pyramid, such as would accomplish the given endwith the smallest quantity possible of materials, were determined by a mathematician, at one hundred andnine degrees t went) -six mintttes for the larger, seventy degrees thirty-two minutes for the smaller. The actualxneuureisone hundred and ninedegrees twunty-eight minutes, seventy degrees thirty>two minates. Yet thaiperfect harmony raises the work at the expense of the artist; the bees are not masters of transcendant geometry. (3) Saed Bbn Ahmed, cadhi of Toledo, who died A. H. 462, A. D. 1069, has furnished Ahulpharagius.fDjnast.p. loo.) with this curious passage, as well as with the text of Pocock's Specimen Historic Arabom. A numberof literary anecdotes of philosophers, physician*, See. who have fitmrisned under each callplrpswrvtne principalAieut uf tne dynssties of A&ut|>haraghif. Tl!