OCR Output TIIEBAE AEGYPTI. 1139 THEBAE AEGYPTI. Old Monarchy, to bare exercised the functions ofroyalty. The reign of Thothmes III. is one of themwt splendid in the annals of the 18th dynasty.Dm free tiers of Aegypt extended S. a littlel«rond the second cataract, and E. nearly toMuant Sinai. Thothmes 11L completed in Thebesittelf many of the structures begun by his predeces-•n. «. g. the palace of the kings, — and generallyiru-bed the cities of the Thebaid with sumptuousviUings. He commenced the temple at Amada,ibich was completed by Amunoph II. and Thoth-ars JV; and his name was inscribed on the motlu-«ti of Oinbi, Apollinnpolia Magna, and Eilithya.I Ule*, however, was the centre of his architecturali'*m, and even the ruins of his great works therei>e served to adorn other capital cities. In thelippodrome of Constantinople is a mutilated obeliskI the reign of Thothmes III., which was brought■«i Aepypt by one of the Byzantine emperors, andinch originally adorned the central court of Karnak.t;»in the obelUk which Pope Silt us V. set up init of the church of St. John Lateran at Rome, the<i«*t and must perfect structure of its kind, wasr»t raised in this reign, and bears its founder'sUs on the central column of its hieroglyphics. records uf this reign are inscribed on two•leratiug monuments, — a painting in a tomb at'•mtth (Haskins, TrateU in Aethiopia, p. 437,IL; Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt ami Thebti, vol. ii. p.M I, sod the great Tablet of Karnak, which isnelly an historical and statistical document, andtach, there can be little doubt, is the very Tabletbu ll the priosta of Thebes exhibited and expoundedI'aesar Uermanicus in A. D. 16 (Tac. Ann. ii.15. From the paintings and the hieroglyphics, so■ u the Utter have been read, on these monuments,that in this reign tribute was paid intotreasury by nations dwelling on theran of the Caspian sea, on the banks uf thern«. in the kingdom of Meroe or Aethiopia, andtbe more savage tribes who wandered over theI'.ern flank of the great Sahara. Thirteen expedi->■*. indeed, of Thothmes III., are distinctly re-rtTni, and the 35th year of his reign, accordingLeptiua, is recorded. At this period the kingdomf'wbea most have been the most powerful andiien* in the world. Of the son of Tbothinea,anophia 1L, little is known; but he also added toat Thebes, and reared other monumentsInscriptions found at Surabitel-Kaalim,tU? peninsula of Sinai, record his name, and atnus (Ibi im) he appears in a specs, or excavated?*L seated with two principal officers, and receiv-the account of a great chase of wild beasts.Next in importance, though not in succession,~e Tbrban kings of the 18th dynasty, is Aniun-s or Anieoopbis III. His name is found atki^m, umr the third Cataract, and he perma-tfy extended the frontiers of the Theban king,i to Soleb, a degree further to S. than it hadWW reached. These extensions are not only geo-i^ically, but commercially, important, inasmuch-«? farther southward the boundaries extended, thervr did Use Aegyptians approach to the regions. K produced gold, ivory, gems, and aromatics,lite more considerable, therefore, was the tradeI beta itself. Only on the supposition that itfor many generations one of the greatest em-■ina m the world can we understand the lavishuf its monarchs, and its fame amongas the greatest and richest of cities. And this consideration is the more important to­wards a correct estimate of the resources of theTheban kingdom, since its proper territory barelysufficed for the support of its dense population, andthere is no evidence of its having any remarkabletraffic by sea. It is prohnblo, indeed, that the do­minions of Amcnopbis III. stretched to within fivedays' journey of Axume on the Red Sea; for uscarabaeus inscribed with his name and that of liiswife Taia mentions the land of Karoei or Kaloei,supposed to be Coloe (Roselliui, Man. St or. iii. 1,261; Birch, Gall lirit. Mm. p. 83), as their south­ern limit. Thebes was enriched by this monarchwith two vast palaces, one on the eastern, the otheron the western bank of the Nile. He also com­menced and erected the greater portion of the build­ings at Luxor. On the walls of their chambersAmenophis was designated " The vanquisher of theMennahoun," an unknown people, and the " Pacifica­tor of Aegypt." From the fragment of a mnnolithalgranite statue now in the louvre, it may be inferredthat bis victories were obtained over negro races, andconsequently were the results of campaigns in the in­terior of Libya and the S. of Aethiopia. Amenophishas a further claim to notice, since he was probablythe Memnon, son of Aurora, whom Achilles slew atthe siege of Troy. Of all the Aethiopian works theMemnonian statues, from their real mngnitudc andfrom the fabulous stories related of them, have at­tracted the largest share of attention. By the wordMemnon the Greeks understood an Aethiopian orman of dark complexion (Steph. B. $. v.; Agathem.ap. Gr. Geograpk. A/in.), or rather, perhaps, a dark-complexioned warrior (comp. Eustath. ad H. v.639); and the term may very properly liave beenapplied to the conqueror of the southern land, whowas also hereditary prince of Aethiojiia. The statuesof Memnon, which now stand alone on the plain ofI Thebes, originally may have been the figures at the| entrance of the long drotnos of crio-sphinxes whichled up to the Amenopheion or palace of Amen­ophis. Of the eastern and northern limits of theTheban kingdom under the third Amenophis, wehave no evidence similar to that afforded by thetablet of Karnak; yet from the monuments of hisj battles we may infer that he levied tribute from| the Arabians on the lied Sea and in the peninsulaof Sinai, and at one time pushed his conquestsas far an Mesopotamia. According to Manctho hereigned 31 years: his tomb is the most ancient ofthe sepulchres in the hab-el-Mebok; and even solate as the Ptolemaic age he had divine honourspaid him by a special priest-college called "Thepastophori of Amenophis in the Memnoneia." (Ken-rick, Ancient Aegypt, vol. ii. p. 246.) Setei Meuephthah is the next monarch of the 18thdynasty who, in connection with Thebes, deservesmention. Besides the temples which he constructedat Amada in Nubia and at Sitsilis (SuWfcA), hebegan the great palace called Menephtheion in thatcity, although he left it to be completed by his suc­cessors ltameses II. and HI. From the paintingsand inscriptions on the ruins at Karnak and /.u»irit appears that this monarch triumphed over fiveAsiatic nations as well as over races whose positioncannot he ascertained, but whose features and dresspoint to the interior of Libya. The tomb and sar­cophagus of Setei Mrnephthah were discovered byBelzoni in the Bab-eUMtlovk. (Travel*, vol. i. p.167.) If he be the same with the S^thos of tlielists, he reigned 50 or 51 years. We now co;ne tt 4 n »