OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SUIXAN CONSTITUTION. 389 punishment for defeats which he sustained through arrantfolly and insubordination (P. 345), but was even allowed atriumph; Gnaeus Pompeius, who had behaved still worse, wasstill more extravagantly honoured by Sulla (P. 344, 378).The extensive range and the worst enormities of the pro­scriptions and confiscations probably arose not so muchfrom Sulla's own wish as from this spirit of indifference,which in his position indeed was hardly more pardonable.That Sulla with his intrinsically energetic and yet withalindifferent temperament should conduct himself very va­riously, sometimes with incredible indulgence, sometimeswith inexorable severity, may readily be conceived. Thesaying repeated a thousand times, that he was before hisregency a good-natured mild man but when regent a blood­thirsty tyrant, carries in it its own refutation; if he as re­gent displayed the reverse of his earlier gentleness, it mustrather be said that he punished with the same careless non­chalance with which he pardoned. This half-ironical fri­volity pervades his whole political action. It is always asif the victor, just as it pleased him to call his merit in gain­ing victory good fortune, esteemed the victory itself of novalue; as if he had a partial presentiment of the vanity andperishableness of his own work; as if after the manner of a, steward he preferred making repairs to pulling down and revbuilding, and allowed himself in the end to be content witha sorry patchwork to conceal the flaws. But, such as he was, this Don Juan of politics was a man suiia afterof one mould. His whole life attests the internal equili- his retire-brium of his nature; in the most diverse situations Sulla ment-remained unchangeably the same. It was the same temper,which after the brilliant successes in Africa made him seekonce more the idleness of the capital, and after the fullpossession of absolute power made him find rest and refresh­ment in his Cuman villa. In his mouth the saying, thatpublic affairs were a burden which he threw off so soon ashe might and could, was no mere phrase. After his resigna­tion he remained entirely like himself, without peevishnessand without affectation, glad to be rid of public affairs andyet interfering now and then when opportunity offered. .Hunting and fishing and the composition of his memoirsoccupied his leisure hours; by way of interlude he arranged,at the request of the discordant citizens, the internal affairsof the neighbouring colony of Puteoli as confidently and '. I