OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419 312. wild beasts in the amphitheatre of Treves, and the people seemto have enjoyed the spectacle, without discovering, in such atreatment of royal captives, any thing that was repugnant to thelaws of nations or of humanity *\ The virtues of Constantine were rendered more illustrious by the Tyranny of . . . • • Maxentius ia vices of Maxentius. Whilst the Gallic provinces enjoyed as much Italy andhappiness as the condition of the times was capable of receiving, a. d. 306—•Italy and Africa groaned under the dominion of a tyrant as con­temptible as he was odious. The zeal of flattery and faction hasindeed too frequently sacrificed the reputation of the vanquished, tothe glory of their successful rivals; but even those writers whohave revealed, with the most freedom and pleasure, the faults ofConstantine, unanimously confess, that Maxentius was cruel, ra­pacious, and profligate 4\ He had the 'good fortune to suppressa flight rebellion in Africa. The governor and a few adherentshad been guilty; the province suffered for their crime. The'flourishing cities of Cirtha and Carthage, and the whole extentof that fertile country, were wasted by fire and sword. The abuseof victory was followed by the abuse of law and justice. A for­midable army of sycophants and delators invaded Africa; the richand the noble were easily convicted of a connexion with therebels; and those among them who experienced the emperor'sclemency, were only punished by the confiscation of their estates 4'.So signal a victory was celebrated by a magnificent triumph, andMaxentius, exposed to the eyes of the people the spoils and cap­tives' of a Roman province. The state of the capital was no Jessdeserving of compassion than that of Africa. The wealth of Romesupplied an inexhaustible fund for his vain and prodigal expences,and the ministers of his revenue, were skilled in the arts of rapine.It was under his reign that the method of exacting a fret giftfrom the senators was first invented, and as the sum was insensibly H h h 2 increased*