OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. value; it has not yet been viewed by any mortal eye;but the sight and the possession of this jewel are des­tined for my friend." As soon as the curiosity and impa­tience of Antonina were kindled, the door of a bed­chamber was thrown open, and she beheld her lover,whom the diligence of the eunuchs had discovered in hissecret prison. Her silent wonder burst into passionate ex­clamations of gratitude and joy, and she named Theodoraher queen, her benefactress, and her saviour. The monkof Ephesus was nourished in the palace with luxury andambition ; but, instead of assuming, as he was promised,the command of the Roman armies, Theodosius expiredin the first fatigues of an amorous interview. The griefof Antonina could only be assuaged by the sufferings ofher son. A youth of consular rank, and a sickly consti­tution, was punished, without a trial, like a malefactorand a slave: yet such was the constancy of his mind,that Photius sustained the tortures of the scourge andthe rack, without violating the faith which he had swornto Belisarius. After this fruitless cruelty, the son ofAntonina, while his mother feasted with the empress,was buried in her subterraneous prisons, which admittednot the distinction of night and day. He twice escapedto the venerable sanctuaries of Constantinople, thechurches of St. Sophia and of the Virgin: but his tyrantswere insensible of religion as of pity; and the helplessyouth, amidst the clamours of the clergy and people,was twice dragged from the altar to the dungeon. Histhird attempt was more successful. At the end of threeyears, the prophet Zacharia, or some mortal friend, indi­cated the means of an escape; he eluded the spies andguards of the empress, reached the holy sepulchre ofJerusalem, embraced the profession of a monk; and theabbot Photius was employed, after the death of Justinian,to reconcile and regulate the churches of Egypt. Theson of Antonina suffered all that an enemy can inflict:her patient husband imposed on himself the more ex­