OCR Output 64 [book h. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. save their male children alive, they and theirfamilies should be destroyed. This was asevere affliction, indeed, to those that sufferedit, not only as they were deprived of theirsons, and while they were the parents them­selves they were obliged to be subservient tothe destruction of their own children, but asit was to be supposed to tend to the extirpa­tion of their nation; while upon the destruc­tion of their children, and their own gradualdissolution, the calamity would become veryhard and inconsolable. Such was the illstate they were in; but no one can overthrowthe purposes of God, though he contrive tenthousand subtile devices for that end; for thischild, whom the sacred scribe foretold, wasbrought up, and concealed from the obser­vers appointed by the king; and he that fore­told him did not mistake in the consequencesof his preservation, which were brought topass under a singular manner:— A man, whose name was Amram, one ofthe nobler sort of the Hebrews, was afraid ofhis whole nation lest it should fail, by thewant of young men to be brought up here- aftef, and was very uneasy at ity his wifebeing then with child, and he knew not whatto do; hereupon he betook himself to prayerto God, and intreated him to have compassionon those men who had no ways transgressedthe laws of his worship, and to afford themdeliverance' from the miseries they at thattime endured, and to render abortive theirenemies' hope of the destruction of their na­tion. Accordingly God had mercy on him,and was moved bv his supplication; he stoodby him in his sleep, and exhorted him not todespair of his future favours. He said farther,that he did not forget their piety towardshim, and would always reward them for it;as he had formerly granted his favour to theirforefathers, and made them increase from afew to so great a multitude. He remindedhim, that when Abraham was come alone outof Mesopotamia into Canaan, he had beenmade happy, not only in other respects, butJthat when his wife was at first barren, sh#:was afterward by him enabled to conceive'seed, and bare him sons; thatheleft tolshmael,1'and to his posterity, the country of Arabia: occasion told a lie; but there is no reason for such a sup­position, though possibly they might conceal some part ofthe truth, which is not unlawful, but highly commendable,when it is to preserve the innocent; for many of the He­brew women might be such as are here described, thoughnot every one of them. The answer of the midwivestherefore is so far from being a sneaking lie to save theirlives, that it is a bold confession of their faith and piety,to the hazard of them, viz. that they saw so plain an evi­dence of the wonderful hand of God, in that extraordinaryvigour in the travail of the women, that do what Pharaohwould, they durst not, would not, strive against it, be­cause they would not strive against God. Lightfoot's Ser­mons on 2 Sam. xix. 29. The making the midwives houses,is, by most interpreters ascribed to God, and the thing issupposed to have been done in a metaphorical sense, i.. e.God gave them a numerous offspring or family, and a verylasting succession or posterity. For there are five things,say they, which go to complete the greatness or eminenceof a family, as such; its largeness, its wealth, its honours,its power, and its duration. And therefore since the mid-wives hazarded their own lives to save those of the He­brew children, and to preserve the Israelites a numerousprogeny and posterity, the God of Israel, in return, notonly made their own lives long and prosperous, but gavethem very numerous families, and an enduring posterity, inwhom they Taught be said to live after death, even fromgeneration to generation. But all this is a very forcedconstruction, and what the original words will by no meansbear. We should therefore rather think, these houseswere built, not for; the midwives, but for the Israelites,and that it was hot God, but Pharaoh, who built them. Thecase seems to be this :—Pharaoh had charged the- mid- wives to kill the male children that were born of the He­brew women; the midwives feared God, omitted to do •what the king had commanded them, pretending in excuse'for their omission, that the Hebrew women were gen'-'erally delivered before' they could get to them. Pharaoh'hereupon resolving to prevent their increase, gave chargeto his people to have all the male children of the He­brews thrown into the river; biit his command could notbe strictly executed, whilst the Israelites lived up anddown the fields in tents, which was their ancient and cus­tomary way of living; for they would shift here and there,and lodge the women in childbed out of the way, to savetheir children. Pharaoh therefore built them houses, andobliged them to a more settled habitation, that the peoplewhom he had set over them, might know where to findevery family, andto take an account of all the children thatshould be b6rn. So that this was a very cunning contri­vance of Pharaoh, in order to have his charge more strictlyand effectually executed than it could otherwise have, beendone; and was a particular too remarkable not to be in­serted in Moses's account of this affair. The only seem­ing difficulty is, to reconcile the words to the text in whathas been here advanced; but this will be none at nil, if thewords be rightly translated, and the verses rightly distin­guished in this manner. Exod. i. 20. And God dwelt with'^the midwives, and the people multiplied, and waxed very^,mighty, and this happened, (or Was so, or came to pass,) fbecause the midwives feared God, ver. 21, 22. And'PKa-:rdoh built them (i. e. Israelites) houses, and charged allhtii''people, saying, every son that is born, ye shall cast itUo therivers, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Skuckford'sConnection, vol.ii.'l. 7. B.