OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 143 position to take the field against them, and had to restcontent with protecting the towns, which were in the mostlamentable plight, by means of the militia of Sicily and thatof Africa brought over in all haste. The administrationof justice was suspended over the whole island, and vio­lence was the only law. As no cultivator living in townventured any longer beyond the gates, and no countrymanventured into the towns, the most fearful famine set in, andthe town-population of this island which formerly fed Italyhad to be supported by the Roman authorities sendingsupplies of grain. Moreover, conspiracies of the town-slaveseverywhere threatened to break out within, while theinsurgent armies lay before, the walls; even Messana waswithin a hair's breadth of being conquered by Athenion. Difficult as it was for the government during the seriouswar with the Cimbri to place a second army in the field,it could not avoid sending in 651 an army of 14,000 Ro- 103.mans and Italians, not including the transmarine militia,under the praetor Lucius Lucullus to the island. Theunited slave-army was stationed in the mountains aboveSciacca, and accepted the battle which Lucullus offered.Their better military organization gave,the Romans thevictory; Athenion was left for dead on the field, Tryphonhad to throw himself into the mountain-fortress of Triocala;the insurgents deliberated earnestly, whether it was possibleto continue the struggle longer. But the party, which wasresolved to hold out to the last man, retained the ascendancy;Athenion, who had been saved in a marvellous manner,reappeared among his troops and revived their sunkencourage; above all, Lucullus with incredible negligence tooknot the smallest step to follow up his victory; in fact, he issaid to have intentionally disorganized the army and to haveburned his field baggage, with a view to screen the totalwant of success in his government and not to be cast intothe shade by his successor. Whether this was true or not,his successor Gaius Servilius (652) obtained no better 102.results; aud both generals were afterwards criminallyindicted and condemned for their conduct in office—which,however, was no certain proof of their guilt. Athenion,who after Tryphon's death (652) was invested with the sole 102.command, stood victorious at the head of a considerablearmy, when in 653 Manius Aquillius, who had during the 101.previous year distinguished himself with Marius in the war Aquillius.