OCR Output 382 MYOEXAE. MTCENAE. cuit, with the exception of a small open space abovethe precipitous cliff on the southern side, which per­haps was never defended by a wall The walls aremore perfect titan those of any other fortress inGreece; in some places they are 15 or 20 feet high.They are built of the dark-coloured limestone of thesurrounding mountains. Some parts of the wallsare built, like those of Tiryns, of huge blocks ofstone of irregular shape, no attempt being made tofit them into one another, and the gaps being filledup with smaller stones. Ii.it the greater part of thewalla consists of polygonal stones, skilfully hewn andfitted to one another, and their faces cut so as togive the masonry a smooth appearance. The walls alsopresent, in a few parts, a third species of masonry,in which the stones are constructed of blocks ofnearly quadrangular shape; this is the case in theapproach to the Gate of Lions. This difference inthe masonry of the walls has been held to provethat they were constructed at different ages; butmore recent investigations amidst the ruins of Greeceand Italy has shown that this difference in the styleof masonry cannot be regarded as a decisive test ofthe comparative antiquity of walls; and Col. Murehas justly remarked that, as there can be no reason­able doubt that the approach to the Gate of Lions isof the same remote antiquity as the remainder of thefabric, it would appear to have been the custom withthese primitivo builders to pay a little more atten­tion to symmetry and regularity in the more orna­mental portions of their work. The chief gate of the Acropolis is at the NW.angle of the wall. It stands at right angles to theadjoining wall of the fortress, and is approached by apassage 50 feet long and 30 wide, formed by thatwall and by another wall exterior to it. The openingof the gateway widens from the top downwards; but at least two-thirds of its height are now buried inruins. The width at the top of the door is 9) ftrtThis door was fonned of two massive uprights,covered with a third block, 15 feet long, 4 feet aide,ami 6 feet 7 inches high in the middle, but di­minishing at the two ends. Above this block is striangular gap in the masonry of the wall, formed byan oblique approximation of the side course* of ■continued from each extremity of the lintel to iapex above its centre. The vacant space is occupiedby a block of stone, 10 feet high, 12 broad, and Ithick, upon the face of which an sculptured twolions in low relief, standing on their hind-legs, uponcither side of a covered pillar, upon which they rattheir fore-feet. The column become* broader to*wards the top, and is surmounted with a capital,formed of a row of four circles, enclosed between twoparallel fillets. The heads of the animals are pose,together with the apex of the cone that surmountedthe column. The block of stone, from which thelinns are sculptured, is said by Leake and etheraccurate observers to be a kind of green basalt: batthis appears to be a mistake. We leant from Mare(Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 324) that the block isof the same jxdombino, or dove-coloured limestone, afwhich the native rock mainly consists, and that theerroneous impression has been derived from thecolour uf the polished surface, which has receivedfrom time and the weather a blueish green hue.The column between the lions is the customarysymbol of Apollo Agyieus, the protector of doors andgates. (Miiller, Dor. ii. 6. § 5.) This is also pratedby the invocation of Apollo in the Agamemnon ofAeschylus (1078, 1083, 1271), and the Electra ofSophocles (1374), in both of which tragedies thescene is laid in front of this gate. GATE OF THE UUK8 AT MYCEXAE. It has been well observed that this pair of lionsstands to the art of Greece somewhat in the samerelation as the Iliad and the Odyssey to her litera­ture; the one, the only extant specimens of theplastic skill of her mythical era, the other, the onlygenuine memorials of its chivalry and its song. Thebest observers remark that the animals are in a styleof art peculiar to themselves, and that they have littleor nothing of that dry linear stillness which charac­terises the earlier stages of the art of sculpture inalmost every country, and present consequently as | little resemblance to tho Archaic style of the Hrl-! lenic works of a later period as to those of IVyptit-elf. "The special peculiarities of their neru.tion are a certain solidity and rotundity amountinglo clumsiness in the limbs, as compared with thebodies. Tbe hind-legs, indeed, are more like thoseof elephants than lions; the thighs, especially, areof immense bulk and thickness. This unfavour­able feature, however, is compensated by mix anatural case and dignity of attitude. The turningof the body and shoulders is admirable, combining