OCR Output AN. 389 530.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. be given them out of the tributes due fromSamaria. The priests shall also offer thesesacrifices according to the laws of Moses inJerusalem: and when they offer them, theyshall pray to God for the preservation of theking, and of his family; that the kingdom ofPersia may continue. But my will is, thatthose who disobey these injunctions, andmake them void, shall be hung upon a cross,and their substance brought into the king'streasury. And such was the import of thisepistle. Now the number of those that cameout of captivity to Jerusalem, were forty-twothousand four hundred and sixty-two. CHAP. II OF THt OPPOSITION WHICH THE JEWS EXPERIENCED FROMTHE CUTHEANS, AND THE NEIGHBOURING GOVERNORS;OF THE COMMAND OF CAMBYSES TO STOP THE BUILDINGOF THE TEMPLE. WHEN the foundations of the templewere laying, and when the Jews werezealous about building it, the neighbouringnations, and especially the Cutheans, whomShalmaneser, king of Assyria, had broughtout of Persia and Media, and had planted inSamaria, when he carried the people of Is­rael captive; besought the governors, andthose that had the care of such affairs, thatthey would interrupt the Jews, both in therebuilding of their city, and in the buildingtheir temple. Now as these men were cor- rupted with money, they sold the Cutheanstheir interest for rendering this building aslow and careless work. For Cyrus, whowas busy about other wars, knew nothing ofall this; and it so happened that when hehad led his army against the *Massageta3,he ended his life.f But when Cambyses,the son of Cyrus, had taken the kingdom,the governors in Syria, and Phoenicia, andin the countries of Ammon and Moab, andSamaria, wrote an epistle to Cambyses,whose contents were as follows: "To our lord Cambyses; we thy servants,Rathumus the historiographer, and Semelliusthe scribe, and the rest that are thy judgesin Syria and Phoenicia, greeting. It is fit, Oking! that thou shouldest know, that thoseJews who were carried to Babylon, are comeinto our country; and are building that re­bellious and wicked city, and its market­places, and setting up its walls, and raisingup the temple. Know therefore, that whenthese things are finished, they will not bewilling to pay tribute, nor will they submitto thy commands; but will resist kings, andwill choose rather to rule over others, thanbe ruled over themselves. We thereforethought it proper to write to thee, O king,while the works about the temple are goingon so fast, and not to overlook this matter;that thou mayest search into the books ofthy fathers; for thou wilt find in them, thatthe Jews have been rebels, and enemies to '* Josephus here follows Herodotus, and those that re­lated how Cyrus made war with the Scythians and Mas-sagetes, near the Caspian Sea, and perished in it. Ofwhom Strabo speaks, XI. page 307, to whom yet he giveslittle credit. While Xenophon's account, which appearsnever to have been seen by Josephus, that Cyrus died inpeace in his own country of Persia, corroborated by thewriters of the affairs of Alexander the Great; when theyagree, that he found Cyrus's sepulchre or Pasargadanear Persepolis. This account of" Xenophon's is alsostrongly confirmed by the circumstances of Cambyses,upon his succession to Cyrus; who instead of a war toavenge his father's death upon the Scythians and Massa-getes, and to prevent those nations from over-running hisnorthern provinces; which would have been the naturalconsequence of his father's ill success and death there;went immediately to an Egyptian war, long ago beganby Cyrus, according to Xenophon, page 644, and con­quered that kingdom. Nor is there, that I ever heardof, the least mention in the reis^i of this Cambyses of anywar against the Scythians or Massagetes that he was everengaged in. Nor, by the way, is this Cambyses anyother than that Artashashta, which our canonical Ezranames in this place, iv. 5, &c. t It is generally agreed by historians, that Cyrus wasmuch about seventy years old when he died; but thenthey widely differ among themselves as to the mannerof his death. Some say, that he was taken in an en­gagement, and hanged; others, that he died of a woundwhich he received in his thigh; and others, that he waskilled in a battle with the people of Samos. Herodotus,Justin, and Valerius Maximus relate, that, in his waragainst the Scythians, falling into an ambush whichQueen Tomyris had laid for him, he was taken prisoner,and, with insult enough, had his head cut off by herorder; but Xenophon's account is,—that he died peace­ably in his bed, amidst his friends, and in his own coun­try; as, indeed, there is little reason to think, eitherthat so wise a man as Cyrus should, in his advancedyears, engage in so desperate an undertaking as thisScythian expedition is represented on all hands, or that,had he died in Scythia, his mangled body could haveever been got out of the hands ot these barbarians tobe buried at Pasargada in Persia, as most authors agreeit was, and where his monument was to be seen inthe time of Alexander the Great. Calmefs Dictionary,under the word Cyrus; and Prideaux's Connection, anna530. B. 3-T2