OCR Output 384 ,n . DECLINE AND FALL, [CHAIVXLIV. a new system of criminal jurisprudence ;b and the empe­rors, from Augustus to Justinian, disguised their increasingrigour under the names of the original authors. But theinvention and frequent use of extraordinary pains, pro­ceeded from the desire to extend and conceal the progressof despotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Ro­mans, the senate was always prepared to confound, at thewill of their masters, the judicial and legislative powers.It was the duty of the governors to maintain the peaceof their province, by the arbitrary and rigid administra­tion of justice; the freedom of the city evaporated in theextent of empire, and the Spanish malefactor, who claim­ed the privilege of a Roman, was elevated by the com­mand of Galba on a fairer and more lofty cross.0 Occa­sional rescripts issued from the throne to decide the ques­tions, which, by their novelty or importance, appearedto surpass the authority and discernment of a proconsul.Transportation and beheading were reserved for honour­able persons; meaner criminals were either hanged orburnt, or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wildbeasts of the ampitheatre. Armed robbers were pursuedand extirpated as the enemies of society; the drivingaway horses or cattle was made a capital offence ;d butsimple theft was uniformly considered as a mere civil andprivate injury. The degrees of guilt, and the modes ofpunishment, were too often determined by the discretionof the rulers, and the subject was left in ignorance of thelegal danger which he might incur by every action ofhis life. .•:. .' , ..' Me»»nr« A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology, of guilt. b )jie penai |aw (Legen Cornelia-, Pompeiic, Juliae, of Sylla, Pompey, and the Caesars), see the sentences of Panlus (lib. 4. tit. 18—30. p. 497—528. edit Schult-ing), the Gregorian Code (Fragment. lib. 19. p 705, 706. in Schulting), the CollatioLegum Mosa carom et Romanarum, (tit. 1. 15.) the Theodosian Code, (lib. 9.) theCode of Justinian, (lib. 9.) the Pandects, (48.) the Institutes, (lib. 4. tit. 18.) and theCreek version of Theophilus. (p. 917—926.) e It was a guardian who had poisoned his ward. The crime was atrocious; yetthe punishment is reckoned by Suetonius (c. 9.) among the acts iu which Galhashewed himself acer vehemens, etin delictis coercendis immodicus. d The ahactores or ahigeatores, who drove one horse, or two mares or oxen, orfive hngs, or ten gotts, were subject to capital punishment, (Paul. Sentent. Recept.lib 4. tit 18. p. 497, 498.) Hadrian (ad Coocil. Bosticaj), most severe where the