OCR Output 44.6 THE DECLINK AND FALL chap. inhabitants, were familiar, and even present, to hisxxn, imagination; and Theodosius possessed a quick and lively sense of the existence of the people whom he destroyed*. influence The respectful attachment of the emperor for theduct of orthodox clergy had disposed him to love and ad-a!d7388. m're tne character of Ambrose; who united all theepiscopal virtues in the most eminent degree. Thefriends and ministers of Theodosius imitated theexample of their sovereign; and he observed, withmore surprise than displeasure, that all his secretcounsels were immediately communicated to the arch­bishop; who acted from the laudable persuasion, thatevery measure of civil government may have someconnexion with the glory of God, and the interestof the true religion. Theodosius was sincere; and,during the term of his residence at Milan, his affec­tion for Ambrose was continually increased by thehabits of pious and familiar conversation.Th"1^06 °f When Ambrose was informed of the massacre ofsius. Thessalonica, his mind was filled with horror anda. d. 390. anguisli. jje retire(J into the country to indulge hisgrief, and to avoid the presence of Theodosius. Butas the archbishop was satisfied that a timid silencewould render him the accomplice of his guilt, herepresented, in a private letter, the enormity of thecrime; which could only be effaced by the tears ofpenitence. The episcopal rigour of Ambrose was tem­pered by prudence; and he contented himself withsignifying an indirect sort of excommunication, bythe assurance, that he had been warned in a vision,not to offer the oblation in the name, or in the pre- * The original evidence of Ambrose (torn. ii. epist. li. p. 998), Augustin (deCivitat. Dei, v. 26), andPaulinus (in Vit.Ambros. c. 24), is delivered in vagueexpressions of horror and pity. It is illustrated by the subsequent and unequaltestimonies of Sozomen (1. vii. c. 25), Theodoret (1. v. c. 17), Theophanes (Chro­nograph. p. 62), Cedrenus (p. 317), and Zonaras (torn. ii. 1. xiii. p. 34). Zosi-mus alone. the partial enemy of Theodosius, most unaccountably passes over insilence the worst of his actions.