OCR Output WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I and Moabites, he enjoined them to pay him tribute, and return­ed to Amathus; and, as Theodorus was surprised at his greatsuccess, he took the fortress, and demolished it. 4. However, when he fought with Obodus, king of the Ara­bians, who had laid an ambush for him near Golan, and a plotagainst him, he lost his entire army, which was crowded togetherin a deep valley, and broken to pieces by the multitudes of camels.And, when he had made his escape to Jerusalem, he provoked themultitude, which hated him before, to make an insurrectionagainst him, and this on account of the greatness of the calamitythat he was under. However, he was then too hard for them,and in the several battles that were fought on both sides, he slewnot fewer than fifty thousand of the Jews, in the interval of sixyears. Yet had he no reason to rejoice in these victories, sincehe did but consume his own kingdom ; till at length he fell off'fighting, and endeavoured to come to a composition with them,by talking with his subjects. But this mutability and irregula­rity of his conduct made them hate him still more. And, whenhe asked them why they so hated him ? and what he should doin order to appease them ? they said, by killing himself; forthat it would be then all they could do to be reconciled to him,who had done such tragical things to them, even when he wasdead. At the same time they invited Demetrius, who was call­ed Eucerus, to assist them; and, as he readily complied withtheir requests, in hopes of great advantages, and came with his ar­my, the Jews joined with those their auxiliaries about Shechem. 5. Yet did Alexander meet with these forces with one thousandhorsemen, and eight thousand mercenaries, that were on foot. Hehad also with him that part of 'the Jews which favoured him, tothe number of ten thousand; while the adverse party had threethousand horsemen, and fourteen thousand footmen. Now, beforethey joined battle, the kings made proclamation, and endeavour­ed to draw off each other's soldiers, and make them revolt twhile Demetrius hoped to induce Alexander's mercenaries toleave him, and Alexander hoped to induce the Jews that werewith Demetrius to leave him. ' But, since neither the Jewswould leave off their rage, nor the Greeks prove unfaithful, theycame to an engagement, and to a close fight with their weapons.In which battle Demetrius was the conqueror, although Alexan­der's mercenaries shewed the greatest exploits, both in soul andbody. Yet did the upshot of this battle prove different fromwhat was expected, as to both of them ; for neither did thosethat invited Demetrius to come to them continue firm to him,though he were conqueror ; and six thousand Jews, out of pityto the change of Alexander's condition, when he was fled to