OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 469 the older Q-reek chronicles were translated into Latin andwere probably read mainly in these translations. Unhappilybeyond the employment of the mother-tongue there ishardly anything else deserving of commendation in thechronicles of this epoch composed in Latin. They werenumerous and ample enough—there are mentioned, forexample, those of Lucius Cassius Hemina (about 608), 146.of Lucius Calpurnius Piso (consul in 621), of Gaius Sem- 133.pronius Tuditanus (consul in 625), of Gaius Eannius (con- 137.sul in 632). To these falls to be added the digest of the 129.official annals of the city in eighty books, which PubliusMucius Scaevola (consul in 621), a man esteemed also as 133.a jurist, prepared and published as pontifex maximus,thereby closing the city-chronicle in so far as thenceforththe pontifical records, although not exactly discontinued,were no longer at any rate, amidst the increasing diligenceof private chroniclers, taken account of in literature. Allthese annals, whether they gave themselves forth as privateor as official works, were substantially similar compilationsof the extant historical and quasi-historical materials; andthe value of their sources as well as their formal valuedeclined beyond doubt in the same proportion as theiramplitude increased. Chronicle certainly nowhere pre­sents truth without fiction, and it would be very foolish toquarrel with Naevius and Pictor because they have notacted otherwise than Hecataeus and Saxo Grammaticus; butthe later attempts to build houses out of such castles in theair severely test even the most tried patience. No blank intradition presents so wide a chasm, but that this systemof smooth and downright invention will fill it up withplayful facility. The eclipses of the sun, the numbers ofthe census, family-registers, triumphs are without hesita­tion carried back from the current year up to the yearone; it stands duly recorded, in what year, month, andday king Romulus went up to heaven, and how king ServiusTullius triumphed over the Etruscans first on the 25thNovember 183, and again on the 25th May 187. In entire 571. 567.harmony with such details accordingly the vessel in whichjEneas had voyaged from Ilion to Latium was shownin the Eoman docks, and even the identical sow, whichhad served as a guide to iEneas, was preserved well pickledin the lloman temple of Vesta. With the talent of a poetfor inventing lies these noble chroniclers combine all the