OCR Output 770 ROMA. ROMA. hill than the auguraculum, and probably near itsdeclivity. The building of it by Marius is testifiedby Vitruvins (iii. 2, 5), and from an inscription(Orelli, 543) it appears to hare been erected out ofthe spoils of the Cimbric and Teutonic war. Welearn from Cicero that this was the temple in whichthe first senatus consultum was made decreeing hisrecall. (Sat 54, Plane. 32, de Div. i. 28.) We have already had occasion to allude to thetemple erected by Augustus to Jupiteb Ton an s.Like that of Fortune it must have stood on the SW.height and near the top of the ascent by the Clivus,as appears from the following story. Augustusdreamt that the Capitoline Jove appeared to himand complained that the new temple seduced awayhis worshippers; to which having answered thatthe Jupiter Tonans had been merely placed thereas his janitor or porter, he caused some bells to behung on the pediment of the latter temple intoken of its janitorial character. (Suet. Aug. 91.)That the same emperor al>o erected a temple toMails Ultoii on the Capitoline, besides that in hisforum, seems very doubtful, and is testified only byDion Cassias (It. 10). Domitian, to commemoratehis preservation during the contest with theVitellians,dedicated a saccllum toJlTPITEB Conservator, orthe Preserver, in the Velabrum, on the site of thehouse of the aedituus, or sacristan, in which he hadtaken refuge; and afterwards, when he had obtainedthe purple, a large temple to Jititer Custos on theCapitoline, in which he was represented in the bosomof the god. (Tac. //. iii. 74; Suet. Dom. 5.) Wealso hear of a temple of Beneficence (Zvffrytala)erected by M. Aurelius. (Dion, lxxi. 34.) But one of the most important temples on theSW. summit or Arx was that of Juno Moneta,erected, as we have said, in pursuance of a vow madeby Camillus on the spot where the house of M.Man 1 ius Capitolinus had stood. (Liv. vii. 28.) Thename of Moneta. however, seems to have been con­ferred upon the goddess some time after the dedica­tion of the temple, since it was occasioned by a voiceheard from it after an earthquake, advising (monens)that expiation should be made with a pregnant sow.(Cic. de Dir. i. 45.) The temple was erected in b. c.345. The Roman mint was subsequently establishedin it. (Liv. vi. 20; cf. Soldae, Mor^ro.) It wasrebuilt n, c. 173. (Liv. xlii. 7.) Near it, as wehave before endeavoured to establish, must be placedthe temple of Concord erected by Camillus and re­stored by Tiberius; as well as the other smallertemple to the same deity, of no great renown, de­dicated during the Second Punic War, b. c. 217.(Liv. xxii. 33.) Such were the principal temples which occupiedthe summit of the Capitoline hill. Hut there werealso other smaller temples, besides a multitude ofstatues, sacella, monuments, and offerings. Amongthese was the temple of Ykjov is, which stood in theplace called " inter duos lucus" between the Capitoland the Tarpeian height. An araJovn PisToRisandaedea VknerisCalvak must also be reckoner! amongthem. (Ovid. F. vi. 387; Lactant. i. 20.) Amongtlie statues may be mentioned those of the KomanKings in the temple of Fides (App. B. C. i. 16;Dion, K)Ui.45), and on the lull the twocolossal statuesof Apollo and Jupiter. The former of these, whichw.ts 30 cubits high, was brought by M. Lucullusfrom Apo!Ionia in 1'ontus. The Jupiter was madeby Sp. Carvilius out of the armour and helmets ofthe conquered Samnitee, and was of such a size that it could be seen from the temple of Jupiter LxLsreon the Alban Mount (Plin. xxiiv. IS.) It t«Ube useless to run through tbe whole list of objects dmight be made out. It will suffice to ay tail 4area Capitoliua was so crowded with the iillustrious men that Augustus was compelled 1move many of them into the Campus JCat 34.) We know only of one profane buildup isummit of the Capitoline hill—tbe Tabi irecord office. We cannot tell the exact t*.* ef Ioriginal one; but it could not have stoodthe Capitoline temple, since it appears lolburnt down together with the Utter doriaf. iwars of Sulla, Polybius (iii. 26)earlier one, and its burning, alluded to by 4(M D. iii. 30, pro Kubir. PtnL 3). seena to Ibeen effected bv a private band, like that FCapitol itself. (Tac. Hist. iii. 72.) When rQ. Lutatius Catulus it occupied a Urge part 1eastern side of the depression between the tmits of the Capitoline, behind the temple of Cand much of it still exists under tbe /toIaa»|torio. In the time of Poggio it wasa salt warehouse, but the inscriptionit was built by Catulus, at his own expense (4was still legible, though nearly eaten away 1saline moisture. (Dt Varitt Fort 14. L |This inscription, which was extant in the 1Xardini, is also given by him { Rom. .tnr. fand by Gruter (clxx. 6; cf. (ML 31),wivariations, and shows that the edifice, asCatulus, must have lasted till the latcatthe Empire. It is often called •authors. (LW. iii. 69 &c) AKOH OF TABlUIUtTI. We shall now proceed to rieaaVUi mmm\«remarkable spots on the bill and its And first of the Astxitc. Beckerassumes that it occupied the wbi *the two summits, and that thismodern topographers has been called h?classical name of fnterimontitm^duos lucos." Bnt here his authorities do ihim out. Whether the whole of tlusthe original asylnm of Romulus, itsay; but it is quite certain thai thatasylum of later times. It woulddescription of Dionysias (ii. 15) that m -t> jstate (flr tots, it. t. A.) the gror* may havesfrom one summit to tbe other; bat it £mthat it occupied the whole space. It nfor Becker to assume this, on account of 1pretation of the passage in Tacitus