OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 93 resigning his tribunate, was very far from being the worstof the threats thrown out against the tribune. Gracchusbelieved, probably with reason, that his personal safety wasimperilled, and no longer appeared in the Forumj without aretinue of 3000 or 4000 men—a step which drew down onhim bitter expressions in the senate, even from Metelluswho was not averse to reform in itself. Altogether, if hehad expected to reach the end by the carrying of his agrarianlaw, he had now to learn that he was only at the beginning.The "people" owed him gratitude; but he was a lost man,if he had no further protection than that gratitude of thepeople, if he did not qoptinjie indispensable to them anddid not constantly attach to' himself fresh interests andhopes by means of other and mor^gfcomprehensive proposals.Just at that time the kingdom and wealth of the Attalidshad fallen to the Romans by the testament of the last kingof Pergamus. Gracchus proposed to the people that thePergamene treasure should be distributed among the newlandholders for the procuring of the requisite implementsand stock, and vindicated generally, in opposition to theexisting practice, the right of the burgesses to decide defini­tively as to the new province. He is said to have preparedfurther popular measures, for shortening the period of ser­vice, for extending the right of appeal, for abolishing the ex­clusive privilege of the senators to act as civil jurymen, andeven for the admission of the Italian allies to Roman citizen­ship. How far his projects in reality- reached, cannot beascertained; this alone is certain, that Gracchus saw thathis only safety lay in inducing the burgesses to confer onhim for a second year the office which protected him, andthat, with a view to obtain this unconstitutional prolonga­tion, he held forth a prospect of further reforms. If atfirst he had risked himself in order to save the common­wealth, he was now obliged to put the commonwealth atstake in order to his own safety. The tribes met to elect the tribunes for the ensuing year, He solicitsand the first divisions gave their votes for Gracchus; but the re-electionopposite party in the end prevailed with their veto so far at t0 the tri"least, that the assembly broke up without having aeconi- bunate-plished its object, and the decision was postponed to thefollowing day. For this day Gracchus put in motion allmeans legitimate and illegitimate ; he appeared to the peopledressed in mourning, and commended to them his youthful