OCR Output 12G LARISSA. LARINUM. mention of Larinum. (Ptol. iii. I. § 65; Plin. iii.11. s. 16: Mil. ii. 4. § 6.) Caesar, on the otherhand, distinguishes the territory of Larinum bothfrom that of the Krentani and from Apulia (" pertinea Marrucirinrum, Krentanorutn, Larinatiuin, inApuliam pcrvenit," B. C. i. 23). Livy uses almostexactly the same expressions (xxvii. 43); and thisappears to be the real solution, or rather the originof the difficulty, that the Larinates long formed anindependent community, possessing a territory ofconsiderable extent, which was afterwards regardedby the geographers as connected with that of theirnorthern or southern neighbours, according to theirown judgment. It was included by Augustus inthe Second Region of Italy, of which he made theTifernus the boundary, and thus came to be natu­rally considered as an appurtenance of Apulia: butthe boundary would seem to hare been subsequentlychanged, for the Liber Coloniarum includes Larinumamong the " Ciritates Kegionis Samnii," to which theKrentani also were attached. (Lib. Colon, p. 260.) Ot the early history of Larinum we have scarcelyany information. Its name is not even once men­tioned during the long continued wars of the Romansand Samnites, in which the neighbouring Luceriafigures so conspicuously. Hence we may probablyinfer that it was at this period on friendly termswith Rome, and was one of those Italian statesthat passed gradually and almost imperceptibly fromthe condition of allies into that of dependents,and ultimately subjects of Rome. Puring theSecond Punic War, on the other hand, the territoryof Larinum became repeatedly the scene of operationsof the Roman and Carthaginian armies. Thus inlie. 217 it was at Gerunium, in the immediateneighbourhood of Larinum, that Hannibal took uphis winter-quarters, while Fahius established hiscamp at Calela to watch him; and it was here thatthe engagement took place in which the rashness ofMiuucius had so nearly involved the Roman armyin defeat. (Pol. iii. 101; Liv. xxii. 18, 24, &c.)Again, in B. c. 207, it was on the borders of thesame territory that Hannibal's army was attackedon its march by the praetor Hostilius, and sufferedsevere loss (Liv. xxvii. 40): and shortly after itis again mentioned as being traversed by the consulClaudius on his memorable march to the Me-tauros. (IbiH. 43; Sil. Ital. xv. 565.) In theSocial War it appears that the Larinates must havejoined with the Krentani in taking up arms atrainstRome, as their territory was ravaged in B. c. 8U byt bo praetor C. Cosconius, after his victory over Tre-hatiua near Canusium. (Appian, Ii. C. i. 52.)During lite civil wars of Caesar and Pompey, theterritory of Larinum was traversed by the formergeneral on his advance to Brundusium (Caes. Ii. C.i. 23). Pompey seems to have at one time made ithis head-quarters in Apulia, but abandoned it onlearning the disaster of Domitius at Corfiniuin.(Cic. ad Alt. vii. 12, 13. b.) From the repeated mention during these militaryoperations of the territory of Larinum, while noneoccurs of the city itself, it would appear that thelitter could not huve been situated on the high road,which probably passed through the plain below it.Rut it is evident from the oratiofl of Cicero in de­fence of A. Cluentins, who was a native of Ijirinum,that it was in his day a flourishing and considerablemunicipal town, with its local magistrates, acnate,public archives, fornm. and all the other appurte-i of mtmii ipul government. (Cic. pro Cluent. 5, 8, 13, 15. &c.) We learn from the Liber Co­loniarum that it received a colony uruier Caesar(l.nje Julia, Lib. Colon, p. 260): but it appear*from inscriptions that it continued to retain it* mu­nicipal rank under the Roman Empire. (UrcII.Inter. 142; Mommsen, Inter. Iiegn. Srap. pp.272, 273.) The existing remains sufficiently provethat it must have been a large anil populous town;but no mention of it is found in history after tlieclose of the Roman Republic. Its name is found inthe Itineraries in the fourth century (ftm. Ant.p. 314, where it is corruptly written Arenio; Tab.Peut.); and there is no reason to suppose that itever ceased to exist, as we find it already noticedas an episcopal see in the seventh century. InA. i>. 842 it was ravaged by the Saracens, and itwas in consequence of this calamity that the in­habitants appear to have abandoned the anrxriisite, and founded the modem city of /Mriiia. a littleless than a mile to the W. of the ancient one. Theruins of the latter, now called Larino Vtechio, oc­cupy a considerable space on the summit of a hillcalled Monterone, about three miles S. of the Bi-ferno (Tifernus): there remain some portions of theancient walls, as well as of one of the gates; theruins of an amphitheatre of considerable extent, andthose of a building, commonly called // Palazzo.which appears to have stood in the centre of tltetown, adjoining the ancient forum, and may probaldvhave been the Curia or senate house. (Tria, J/e-morie di iMrino, i. 10.) The territory of Larinum seems to have originallyextended from the river Tifernus to the Krento(Fortore), and to have included the whole trmetbetween those rivers to the sea. The town of Cli-ternia, which was situated within these limits, isexpressly called by Pliny a dependency of I .annum("Lariuatum Clitemia," Plin. iii. 11. a. 16); andTeanum, which is placed by him to the X. of theKrento, was certainly situated on its right bank.Hence it is probable that the municipal terriUa-T ofLarinum under the Roman government (till com­prised the whole tract between the two rivers. TheTabula pbices Larinum eighteen miles from Truninin Apulia, and this distance is continued by an ex­press statement of Cicero. (Toe. I'euL; Cic. ar-oCluent. 9.) There exist numerous coins of Larinum, with theinscription ladinod in Roman letters. From thislast circumstance Uiey cannot bo n-ferred to a Yerjrearly iwri.nl, and are certainly not older than theRoman conquest. (Eckln-I, vol. i. p. 107; Momm­sen, Hum. Miinzureten, p. 335.) [E. H. B.J COW OF LARINfM. LARISSA (Mfuraa, but on coins and inscr Ki-pttra or Aopeiaa: Eth. Aapuraawi, Aapiaeuoi). aname common to many Pelusgic towns, and probabtra Pelaagic word signifying city. (Convp, Siren, xiu.p. 620: 1 Hon vs. i. 21; Niebuhr, IlitL of Rumtt, vol. i.note 60.) Hence in mythology Lanaaa is repre­sented as tho daughter of Pclasgua (Pans. ii. *4­