OCR Output CHAP. L. 351 from a distance with a cloud of arrows, and the horsesand men were successively slain: a truce was allowedon both sides for the hour of prayer; and the battle atlength expired by the death of the last of the companionsof Hosein. Alone, weary, and wounded, he seated him­self at the door of his tent. As he tasted a drop of water,he was pierced in the mouth with a dart; and his sonand nephew, two beautiful youths, were killed in hisarms. He lifted his hands to heaven; they were full ofblood, and he uttered a funeral prayer for the living andthe dead. In a transport of despair his sister issued fromthe tent, and adjured the general of the Cufians, that hewould not suffer Hosein to be murdered before his eyes;a tear trickled down his venerable beard; and the bold­est of his soldiers fell back on every side as the dyinghero threw himself among them. The remorselessShamer, a name detested by the faithful, reproachedtheir cowardice; and the grandson of Mahomet wasslain with three-and-thirty strokes of lances and swords.After they had trampled on his body, they carried hishead to the castle of Cufa, and the inhuman Obeidollahstruck him on the mouth with a cane. Alas! (exclaimedan aged Mussulman) on these lips have I seen the lips ofthe apostle of God! In a distant age and climate thetragic scene of the death of Hosein will awaken thesympathy of the coldest reader.' On the annual festivalof his martyrdom, in the devout pilgrimage to his se­pulchre, his Persian votaries abandon their souls to thereligious frenzy of sorrow and indignation.' , When the sisters and children of Ali were rostenty of Mahomet brought in chains to the throne of Damascus,the caliph was advised to extirpate the enmity • I have abridged the interesting narrative of Ockley. (torn. 2. p. 170—231It is long and minute; but the pathetic, almost always, consists in the detail oflittle circumstances. 'Niebuhr the Dane (Voyages en Arabic, &c. torn. 2. p. 208, &c.) is perhaps theonly European traveller who has dared to visit Meshed Ali and Meshed Hosein.The two sepulchres are in the hands of the Turks, who tolerate and tax the de­votion of the Persian heretics. The festival of the death of Hosein is amply de­scribed by sir John Chardin, a traveller whom I have often praised.