OCR Output ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book I. esteem it a piece of cowardice to submit toGod; and they built a tower, neither sparingany pains, nor being at any degree negligentabout the work; and by reason of the multi­tude of hands employed in it, it grew veryhigh sooner than any one could expect, butthe thickness of it was so great, and it was sostrongly built, that thereby its great heightseemed, upon view, to be less than it reallywas. It was built of burnt brick, cementedtogether with mortar, made of bitumen, thatit might not be liable to admit water. WhenGod saw them acting so madly, h ttcl id not re­solve to destroy them utterly, since they werenot grown wiser by the destruction of the for­mer sinners, but he caused a tumult amongthem by producing in them divers languages,and causing that through the multitude ofthose languages, they should not be able tounderstand one another. The place whereinthey built the tower is now called Babylon,because of the confusion of that languagewhich they readily understood before, for theHebrew means by the word Babel,* con­fusion. The Sibylf also makes mention ofthe tower, and of the confusion of the lan­guage, when she says thus:—" When all menwere of one language, some of them built anhigh tower, as if they would thereby ascendup to heaven, but the gods sent storms ofwind, and overthrew the tower, and gaveevery one his peculiar language; and for thisreason it was that the city was called Baby­lon." But as to the plain of Shinah, in thecountry of Babylonia, Hestiaeus mentions itwhen he says, " Such of the priests as weresaved took the sacred vessels of Jupiter Enya-lius, and came to Shinar or Babylonia." CHAP. V. OF THE MANNER. IN WHICH THE POSTERITY OF NOAH SENTOUT COLONIES, AND INHABITED THE WHOLE EARTH. FTER this they were dispersed abroadon account of the difference of their languages, and went out by colonies everywhere; and each colony took possession ofthat land unto which God led them, so thatthe whole continent was filled with them, boththe inland and maritime countries. Therewere some also who passed over the sea inships, and inhabited the islands; and some ofthose nations still retain the denominationswhich were given them by their first foun­ders, but some have lost them, and some haveonly admitted certain changes in them, thatthey might be more intelligible to the in­habitants; and they were the Greeks whobecame the authors of such mutations; forwhen, in after ages they grew potent, theyclaimed to themselves the glory of antiquity,giving names to the nations that sounded wellin Greek, that they might be better under­stood among themselves, and setting agreea­ble forms of government over them, as if theywere a people derived from themselves. CHAP. VI. HOW EVERY NATION WAS DENOMINATED FROM THEIR FIRSTINHABITANTS. NOW they were the grand-children ofNoah, in honour of whom names wereimposed on the nations by those that firstseized upon them. Japhet, the son of Noah,had seven sons; they inhabited so, that be­ginning at the mountains Taurus and Amanus,they proceeded along Asia, as far as the riverTanais, and along Europe to Cadiz, andsettling themselves on the lands they chose,which none had inhabited before, they calledthe nations by their own names; for Gomerfounded those whom the Greeks called Gala-tians, but were then called Gomerites. Ma­gog founded those that from him were namedMagogites, but who are by the Greeks calledScythians. Now as to Javan and Madai, thesons of Japhet: from Madai came the Ma-deans, which are called Medes by the Greeks, and since Hesiod says, that men's lives were once so long,that at one hundred years of age they might be esteemedgreat infants, I prefer that reading. But what a catalogueof ancient authors are there that confirm the sacred His­tory in one of its most difficult branches! To which hadJosephus read the Latin authors, as he did the Greek, hemight have added Varro, the most learned of the Romanswho made this enquiry, what the reason was that the an­cients were supposed to have lived one thousand years?* Gen. xi. 29. t See this testimony in the original, and in English inmy Edition of the Sibylline oracles, page 11. 93, 94. butthere it is in verse, as here in prose, the reason of whichdifference 1 by no means understand. But what is hereremarkable is, that Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian his­torian, confirms this history, that God overthrew this towerby a terrible and divine storm; and confounded the lan­guage of the builders, and this from the earliest recordsbelonging to that nation. ■i