OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. respect of Belisarius for the successor of St. Peter, andhis rigid discipline secured, in the midst of war, the bless­ings of tranquillity and justice. They applauded therapid success of his arms, which overran the adjacentcountry, as far as Narni, Perusia, and Spoleto: but theytrembled, the senate, the clergy, and the unwarlike peo­ple, as soon as they understood that he had resolved,and would speedily be reduced, to sustain a siege againstthe powers of the Gothic monarchy. The designs ofVitiges were executed during the winter-season, withdiligence and effect. From their rustic habitations, fromtheir distant garrisons, the Goths assembled at Ravennafor the defence of their country; and such were theirnumbers, that after an army had been detached for therelief of Dalmatia, one hundred and fifty thousand fight­ing men marched under the royal standard. Accordingto the degrees of rank or merit, the Gothic king distri­buted arms and horses, rich gifts, and liberal promises;he moved along the Flaminian way, declined the uselesssieges of Perusia and Spoleto, respected the impregnablerock of Narni, and arrived within two miles of Rome, atthe foot of the Milvian bridge. The narrow passagewas fortified with a tower, and Belisarius had computedthe value of the twenty days, which must be lost in theconstruction of another bridge. But the consternationof the soldiers of the tower, who either fled or deserted,disappointed his hopes, and betrayed his person into themost imminent danger. At the head of one thousandhorse, the Roman general sallied from the Flaminiang3te to mark the ground of an advantageous position,and to survey the camp of the barbarians; but while hestill believed them on the other side of the Tiber, hewas suddenly encompassed and assaulted by their innu­merable squadrons. The fate of Italy depended on hislife ; and the deserters pointed to the conspicuous horse,a bay,f with a white face, which he rode on that memo- 'An horse of a hay or red colour was styled <j>aXio; by the Greeks, halam by. ths