OCR Output 56 CINNABAR. 38. OF CINNABAH.6 I am not surprised at the high estimation in which this colourhas been held. Even in the time of the Trojans, Rubrica1 wasmuch valued, according to the testimony of Homer, who praisesthe ships that were painted with it,8 although, on most occasions,he is very sparing of his remarks on paintings and pigments.Minium is called by the Greeks, Milton, and by some personsCinnabar. Hence arises the mistake respecting the substancewhich is called Cinnabar by the Indians; for they give this nameto the blood of the dragon, when it is crushed by the weight of theelephant dying on it, in the way which I have described above,9the blood of the two animals being mixed together. There is noother pigment which gives the proper blood-colour in painting.Cinnabar is of great use, both as an antidote and a medicine; but,by Jove! the physicians, instead of the proper Cinnabar, actuallyuse this which is made from Minium, and which is itself a poison,as I shall show hereafter. 0 Dioscorides gives an account of cinnabar, in lib. v. cap. 63. p. 668; hewas not aware of its relation to minium. Agricola was acquainted withthis relation, and with the true nature of cinnabar, as a compound of mer­cury and sulphur; De Re Met. p. 460,1; he calls it "Miniumfactitium;"De Nat. Foss. lib. ix. p. 358, 9. The ancients appear to have had no cor­rect idea of the relation of these substances to each other. ? For a farther account of Rubrica see lib. xxxv. sec. 14. It is describedby Dioscorides under the name of piXrov; v. 65, 6; where we have an ac­count of both the native and the artificial species; the latter is said to beproduced by calcining ochre. The same statement is made by Agricola,De Re Met. p. 461; he gives a full description of Rubrica in the treatiseDe Nat. Foss. lib. ii. p. 204; it appears to be a kind of red ochre. Vitru-vius classes Rubrica with Si], as species of ochres; vii. 7. "In the line supposed to be referred to in this place, II. ii. 637, Homersimply mentions the fact, that the ships of Ulysses were "fuXroTrapijoi,"without any expression of praise or admiration. There is, however, reasonto suppose that by itiXrov the ancients meant a species of red ochre; The-ophrastus classes it with w^pa, as substances of an earthy nature; DeLap. sec. 71; Op. p. 396, 7. 9 Lib. viii. sec. 12. This tale is repeated by Solinus, as is ordinarily thecase with all the improbable stories that are referred to by Pliny. Speakingof the contest of the dragon and the elephant, Solinus says, "Itaque cum"ebiberunt (dracones) sanguinem, dum ruunt belluae, dracones obruuntur.Sic utrinque fusus cum terram imbuit, fitque pigmentum quiquid solitinxerit, quod cinnabari vocant." cap. 26. See also Salmasius, in Exerc.Plin. p. 140.