OCR Output 176 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774. mass, without an effort to rise. Sacrovir threw him­self into the town of Augustodunum, but in a shorttime, fearing to be given up a prisoner, withdrew,with his most faithful adherents, to , a villa in theneighbourhood, where he put an end to his life. Hisfollowers, having first set fire to the place, turnedtheir swords against themselves, and perished in onegeneral carnage. XLVII. Tiberius, at length, thought fit to write tothe senate on the subject of these commotions. Inone and the same letter he gave an account of thewar begun and ended. He neither magnified nordisguised the truth, but in plain terms ascribed thewhole success to the valour of his officers, and thewisdom of his councils. Why he did not go in per­son, or send his son Drusus, the same letter explainedhis reason: " The extent and majesty of the empire" claimed his utmost care. It was not for the dignity" of the prince, on the revolt of one or two cities, to" relinquish the seat of government. But now, since" he could not be supposed to be under any kind qf" alarm, it was his intention to show himself to the"provinces, in order, by his presence, to allay the" ferment, and restore the public tranquillity." Vowsfor his return, and solemn festivals, with other usualceremonies, were decreed by the senate. Dolabella,intending to display his genius in the trade of flattery,succeeded so far as to show his meanness and absur­dity. He proposed that the emperor, on his returnfrom Campania, should enter the city with the splen­dour of an ovation. This occasioned a letter to thesenate from Tiberius, wherein he observed, " that af-" ter conquering fierce and warlike nations, and hav-"ing in his youth received and declined triumphal" honours, he was not such a novice to glory as to" desire, in the evening of his days, the vain parade" of a public entry, for an excursion that was little"more than a party of.pleasure to the suburbs ot" Rome." XLVIII. About this time Tiberius wrote to the se­nate, requesting that a public funeral might be decreedto.Sulpieius Quirinius ; a man no way related to the ,> '