OCR Output NARDINIUM. NARO. 3D 9 I £i ibc to Jfasulia. ( Diod. v. 38.) There was |i: Xarbo a rrrat variety of dress and of people, whowi ittrartAl by the commercial advantages of theotr. Il *u adorned with pablic buildings, afterik Wiine of Boman towns. (Martial, viii. 72;Aura .Varto; Sidim. Apollin. Cam. 23.) Aof I'arian marble, probably some poetical ex-■croliai, is spoken of by Ausonius; and Sidonius•xamaa, u half a dozen miserable lines, therwm «f mcKSt Sarbonne, its gates, porticoes,'..ua, ikotrt. and other things. Ue speaks of abridge over the Atax. The coast ofStr^mr m ami b famed for oysters.Si a single Roman monument is standing atbat the sites of many bnildings are ascer-ij'tot Numerous architectnral fragments, friezes,^-Mwfj, tombstones, and inscriptions, still remain.>« iwcripfwns are or were preserved in thewj tM on the great staircase of the episcopal•a*. There is a museum of antiquities at A'ar-vhith contains fragments of mosaic, basts,rxmrv Bras, and a gnat number of inscrip-•<* [G. I..] XARM'XIITM (HapSinov, Ptol. ii. 6. § 34), a*■» «f tie Swlini, a tribe of the Astures, inTtmcmenxis, probably near Villalpando::*Eda. (Sestini, p. 172.)VUUSCI. a German tribe of the Snevi, oceupy- * tim nuatry in the west of the Gabretn Silva,at eat of the Hermunduri. Tliey extended in the ■ far as the Sudeti Montes, and in the south ■ fcr u Ike Danube. In the reign of M. Aurelius,•■'« tbem emigrated southward into the KomanrT»* (Dion Cass. lxxi. 21, where they arc ■ »i *wt*L) After the Marcomannian war,■7 *«npWttly disappear from history, and theT3'7 <*<» occupied by them is inhabited, in the TaHe, by a tribe called Annalausi. (Tac.«; JuL Capitol. If. Ant 22*; Ptolemyl II. j 23) calls them Varisti (Oiapiffroi), whichf^if the more genuine form of the name, sinceages a portion of the country once in-•**d by them bore the name of Provincia Va-**» [L. S.J N i KX1A (Moyrfa, Strata Ptol.: F.th. Narnicnsis:the most important cities of I'mbria,M oi tat left bank of the river Nar, about 8 * »wv in confluence with the Tiber. It was on1 * rf Ibe Via FLaminia, by which it was distant ■ r, kr-a Rome. (/On. Ant. p. 125; /fin. liter.Ii) Weafpbal, Bdm. A'amp. p. 145.) It appears btec an accient and important city of the=r», kA previons to the Roman conquest bore»»of SiQtma-Jt (Plin. Hi. 14. s. 19; Liv. x.""".I Byz. writes the name Nqxoiua.) In B. c. "•» besieged by the Koman consul Appu-» -*s tt* aatoral strength enabled it to defy his't>J tie was protracted till the next year, ■ a vat at length surprised and taken by the■< *. Fah-ioa, m. c. 299. (Mr. x. 9, 10.) Ful-'** a crtweqoeuce honoured with a triumpli"*"auiy»i Srquinatibusque" (f'ast.Capit.); and*-^xr. irraite determined to secure their new by iptxiing thither a colony, which assumedof Xirnia from its position on the bankshi Set (Lrr. x. 10.) It ia strange that all men-1 eoiaar is omitted by Velleius Patercnlus;>j ure train occurs in Livy, in the list of theUtx rokojes daring the Second Punio War. (a. c. 209). it was one of those any longer to bear the burdens of the war; for which it was subsequently punished by the imposition of adouble contingent and increased contribution in money.(Liv. xxvii. 9; xxix. 15.) Yet the complaint seems,in the case of Namia at least, to have been wellfounded; for a few years afterwards (b. c. 199), thacolonists again represented their depressed conditionto the senate, and obtained the appointment of tri­umvirs, who recruited their numbers with a freshbody of settlers. (Id. xxxii. 2.) During the SecondPunic War, Narnia was the point at which, in B. c.207, an army was posted to oppose the threatenedadvance of Hasdrubal upon Rome; and hence it w issome Namian horsemen who were the first to bringto the capital the tidings of the great victory at theMetaurus. (Liv. xxvii. 43. 50.) These are the onlynotices we find of Narnia under the republic, but itseems to have risen into a flourishing municipal town,and was one of the chief places in this part of Um-bria. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii.1. § 54.) It probably owed its prosperity to its posi­tion on the great Flaminian highway, as well as tothe great fertility of the subjacent plain. In the civilwar between Vitellius and Vespasian, Narnia bore animportant part, having been occupied by the generalsof the former as a stronghold, where they hoped tocheck the advance of the army of Vespasian; butthe increasing disaffection towards Vitellius causedthe troops at Narnia to lay down their arms withoutresistance. (Tac. Hist. iii. 58—63, 67, 78.) Thenatural strength of Narnia, and its position as com­manding the Flaminian Way, also rendered it a fort­ress of the utmost importance during the Gothic wars •of Belisarins and Names. (I'rocop. B. G. i. 16, 17;ii. 11; iv. 33.) It became an episcopal see at anearly period, and continued throughout the middleages to be a considerable town. The position of Narnia on a lofty hill, precipitouson more than one side, and half encircled by thewaters of the Nar, which wind through a deep andpitturr-squc woodtfd valley immediately below thetown, is alluded to by many ancient writers, anddescribed with great truthfulness and accuracy byClandian, as well as by the historian Procopius.(Claudian, </e VI. Cons. Hon. 515—519; Sil. Ital.viii. 458 ; Martial, vii. 93; Procop. B. G. i. 17.)It was across this ravine, as well as the river Naritself, that the Via Flaminia was carried by a bridgeconstructed by Augustus, and which was consideredto surpass all other structures of the kind in bold­ness and elevation. Its ruins are still regarded withadmiration by all travellers to Rome. It consistedoriginally of three arches, built of massive blocks ofwhite marble ; of thi^se tho one on the left bank isstill entire, and has a height of above sixty feet;the other two have fallen in, apparently from thefoundations of the central pier giving way; but allthe piers remain, and the imposing style of thewhole structure justifies the admiration which itappears to have excited in ancient as well as moderntimes. Martial alludes to the bridge of Narnia as,even in his day, the great pride of the place.(Procop. I. c. ; Martial, vii. 93. 8; Cluver. Ital.p. 636; Eustace's Italy, vol. i. p. 339.) The em­peror Nerva was a native of Narnia, though hisfamily would seem to have been of foreign extrac­tion. (Vict. Epit. 11 ; Cats. 12.) [E. H.B.] NARO (o tidpuv, Ptol. ii. 16. § 5; Tim. iii. 26 jNar, Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 13; Narenum, Gcogr.Rav. iv. 16: A'arcnfa), a river of Illyricum, whichScylax (pp. 8, 9) describes as navigable from its