OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 171 CHAP. VII. How Judas overthrew the forces of Appollonius and Seron, andkilled the generals of their armies themselves,- and how, whena little while afterward, Lysias and Gorgias were beaten, hewent up to Jerusalem, and purified the temple. § 1. VV HEN Appollonius, the general of the Samaritan for­ces heard this, he took his army, and made haste to go againstJudas; who met him, and joined battle with him, and beat him,and slew many of his men, and among them Appolloniushimself, their general, whose sword being that which he hap­pened to wear, he seized upon, and kept for himself; but hewounded more than he slew, and took a great deal of prey fromthe enemies' camp, and went his way. But when Seron, whowas general of the army of Celesyria, heard that many had join­ed themselves to Judas, and that he had about him an army suf­ficient for fighting, and for making war, he determined to makean expedition against him, as thinking it became him to endea­vour to punish those that transgressed the king's injunctions. Hethen got together an army as large as he was able, and joined it tothe runagate and wicked Jews, and came against Judas. Hecame as far as Bethhoron, a village of Judea, and there pitchedhis camp: upon which Judas met him; and when he intended togive him battle, he saw that his soldiers were backward to fight,because their number was small, and because they wanted food,for they were fasting, he encouraged them, and said to them, that"victory and conquest of enemies is not derived from the mul-"titude in armies, but in the exercise of piety towards God;"and that they had the plainest instances in their forefathers,"who by their righteousness, and exerting themselves on behalf"of their own laws, and their own children, had frequently con-'; quered many ten thousands, for innocence is the strongest ar-"my." By this speech he induced his men to contemn the mul­titude of the enemy, and to fall upon Seron. And upon joiningbattle with him, he beat the Syrians; and when their generalfell among the rest, they all run away with speed, as thinkingthat to be their best way of escaping. So he pursued them un­to the plain, and slew about eight hundred of the enemy, butthe rest escaped to the region which lay near to the sea. 2. When king Antiochus heard of these things, he was veryangry at what had happened; so he got together all his own ar-.*ny, with many mercenaries, whom he had hired from the islands,and took them with him, and prepared to break into Judea,about the beginning of the soring. But when, upon his muster- VOL II. Y 21