OCR Output jj. I. INTRODUCTION; 87 War*." The Byzantines also came in, upon the engage­ment of being held only to such obedience as had formerlybeen required of them. Not many years intervened between this period of timeand the rise of those differences above recited concerningCorcyra and Potidaea, and all occurrences whatever, onwhich the pretences of this Peloponnesian war were ground­ed. All these transactions in general, whether of Greciansagainst Grecians, or against the Barbarian, fell out in thecompass of fifty years, between the retreat of Xerxes and thecommencement of this present war; during which periodthe Athenians had established their dominion on a solid ba­sis, and had rose to a high exaltation of power. The Lace­daemonians were sensible of it, yet never opposed them, ex­cept by some transient efforts ; and for the most part of thetime were quite easy and indifferent about it. That peoplehad never been known in a hurry to run to arms: Theirwars were indispensably necessary; and sometimes theywere entangled in domestic broils. Thus they looked onwith indolent unconcern till the Athenian power was manifest­ly established, and encroachments were made upon their ownalliance. Then indeed they determined to be no longer patient:They resolved upon a war in which their utmost force shouldbe exerted, and the Athenian power, if possible, demolished. ON these motives was formed the public resolution of theLacedaemonians—That " the treaty was violated, and the" Athenians were guilty of injustice." They had also sent • Samoa thus reduced, which in maritime power vied with Athens her­self, and had well nigh defeated her grand plan of being mistress of the•ea, Pericles was received upon his return with all the honours a gratefulpeople could give him, and was pitched upon to make the funeral orationfor those slain in the war. He performed his part with high applause.The ladies in particular were loud in their acclamations, and were eagerlyemployed in caressing and crowning him with garlands. But for a smartpiece of raillery from one of them, on this occasion, and his smarter repar-tee, the reader may consult the Univertal Hittory, vol. vi. p. 429. the note.In the latter part of that note, the authors seem willing both to deny andto allow Pericles the meril of having strved his country in the reductionof Samos.