OCR Output OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 93 thousand insurgents, assembling in the field of Bulla, elected Stoza for their chief,,a private soldier, who possessed, in a superior degree, the virtues of a rebel. Un­der the mask of freedom, his eloquence could lead, or at least impel, the passionsof his equals. He raised himself to a level with Belisarius, and the nephew of theemperor, by daring to encounter them in the field; and the victorious generalswere compelled to acknowledge, that Stoza deserved a purer cause, and a morelegitimate command. Vanquished in battle, he'dexterously employed the arts ofnegotiation s*a Roman army was seduced from their allegiance, and the chiefs,•who had trusted to his faithless promise, were murdered by his order, in a churchof Numidia. When every resource, either of force or perfidy, was exhausted,Stoza, with some desperate Vandals, retired to the wilds of Mauritania, obtainedthe daughter of a barbarian prince, and eluded the pursuit of his enemies, by thereport of his death. The personal weight of Belisarius, the rank, the spirit, andthe temper, of Germanus, the emperor's nephew, and the vigour and success of thesecond administration of the eunuch Solomon, restored the modesty of the camp,and maintained for awhile, the tranquillity of Africa. But the vices of the By­zantine court, were felt in that distant province; the troops complained that they■were neither paid nor relieved; and as soon as the public disorders were sufficientlymature, Stoza was again alive, in arms, and at the gates of Carthage. He fell ina single combat, but he smiled in the agonies of death, when he was informed thathis own javelin had reached the heart of his antagonist. The example of Stoza,and the assurance that a fortunate soldier had been the first king, encouraged theambition of Gontharis, and he promised by a private treaty, to divide Africa withthe Moors, if, with their dangerous aid, he should ascend the throne of Carthage.The feeble Areobindus, unskilled in the affairs of peace and war, was raised byhis marriage with the niece of Justinian to the office of exarch. He was suddenlyoppressed by a sedition of the guards, and his abject supplications, which pro­voked the contempt, could not move the pity, of the inexorable tyrant. After areign of thirty days, Gontharis himself was stabbed at a banquet, by the hand orArtaban; and it is singular enough, that an Armenian prince, of the royal familyof Arsaces, should re-establish at Carthage the authority of the Roman empire.In the conspiracy which unsheathed the dagger of Brutus against the life of C:esar,every circumstance is curious and important to the eyes of posterity: but the guiltor merit of these loyal or rebellious assassins could interest only the cotemporariesof Procopius, who, by their hopes and fears, their friendship, or resentment, werepersonally engaged jp the revolutions of Africa.(l) That country was rapidly sinking into the state of barbarism, from whence it hadbeen raised by the Phoenician colonies and Roman laws, and every step of intestine-discord was marked by some deplorable victory of savage man over civilized so­ciety. The Moors,(2) though ignorant of justice, were impatient of oppression:their vagrant life and boundless wilderness disappointed the arms, and eluded thechains of a conqueror; and experience had shown, that neither oaths nor obliga­tions could secure the fidelity of their attachment. The victory of mount Aurashad awed them into momentary submission; but if they respected the characterof Solomon, they hated and despised the pride and luxury of his two nephews,Cyrus and Sergius, on whom their uncle had imprudently bestowed the provincialgovernments of Tripoli and Pentapolis. A Moorish tribe encamped under thewalls of Leptis, to renew their alliance, and receive from the governor the custo­mary gifts. Fourscore of their deputies were introduced as friends into the city;but, on the dark suspicion of a conspiracy, they were massacred at the table ofSergius; and the clamour of arms and revenge was re-echoed through the valleysof mount Atlas, from both the Syrtes to the Atlantic ocean. A personal injury,the unjust execution, or murder of his brother, rendered Antalus the enemy ofthe Romans. The defeat of the Vandals had formerly signalized his valour; therudiments of justice and prudence were still more conspicuous in a Moor; andwhile he laid Adrumetum in ashes, he calmly admonished the emperor that thepeace of Africa might be secured by the recall of Solomon and his unworthy ne­phews. The exarch led forth his troops from Carthage: but at the distance of (1) Yet I must not refute him the merit of painting, in lively colour), the murder of Gontharis. One ofthe assassins uttered a sentiment not unworthy of a Roman patriot.—" If I fiiil (said Artasiresj in the finestroke, kill me on the spot, lest the rack should extort a discovery of my accomplices." (2) The Moorish wars are occasionally introduced into the narrative of Procopius: (Vandal, lib. ii. c. 19—23.2J. S7,28. Gothic, lib. iv. c. 17.) and Theophanes adds some prosperous and adverse events in the last years ofJustinian.