OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 27 and rapine. The most successful princes respected the strength of the mountainsand the despair of the natives; their fierce spirit was sometimes toothed withgifts, and sometimes restrained by terror; and a military count, with three legions,fixed his permanent and ignominious station in the heart of the Roman provinces,(1JBut no sooner was the vigilance of power relaxed or diverted, than the light-armedsquadrons descended from the hills, and invaded the peaceful plenty of Asia. Al­though the Isaurians were not remarkable for stature or bravery, want renderedthem bold, and experience made them skilful in the exercise of predatory war. Theyadvanced with secrecy and speed to the attack of villages and defenceless towns;their flying parties have sometimes touched the Hellespont, the Euxine, and thegates of Tarsus, Antioch, or Damascus;(2) and the spoil was lodged in their inaccessi­ble mountains, before the Roman troops had received their orders, or the distant pro­vince had computed its loss. The guilt of rebellion and robbery excluded them fromthe rights of national enemies; and the magistrates were instructed by an, edict,that the trial or punishment of an Isaurian, even on the festival of Easter, was ameritorious act of justice and piety. (3) If the captives were condemned to domes­tic slavery, they maintained, with their sword or dagger, the private quarrel of theirmasters; and it was found expedient for the public tranquillity, to prohibit the ser­vice of such dangerous retainers. When their countryman I'arcalissseus or Zenoascended the throne, he invited a faithful and formidable band of Isaurians, who in­sulted the court and city, and were rewarded by an annual tribute of five thousandpounds of gold. But the hopes of fortune depopulated the mountains, luxury ener­vated the hardiness of their minds and bodies, and in proportion as they mixed withmankind, they became less qualified for the enjoyment of poor and solitary free­dom. After the death of Zeno, his successor Anastasius suppressed their pensions,exposed their persons to the revenge of the people, banished them from Constanti­nople, and prepared to sustain a war, which left only the alternative of victory orservitude. A brother of the last emperor usurped the title of Augustus; his causewas powerfully supported by the arms, the treasures, and the magazines, collectedby Zeno; and the native Isaurians must have formed the smallest portion of thehundred and fifty thousand barbarians under his standard, which was sanctified, forthe first time, by the presence of a fighting bishop. Their disorderly numberswere vanquished in the plains of Phrygia by the valour and discipline of the Goths;but a war of six years almost exhausted the courage of the emperor. (4) The Isau­rians retired to their mountains; their fortresses were successively besieged andruined; their communication with the sea was intercepted; the bravest of their lead­ers died in arms; the surviving chiefs, before their execution, were dragged inchains through the hippodrome; a colony of their youth was transplanted intoThrace, and the remnant of the people submitted to the Roman government. Yetsome generations elapsed before their minds were reduced to the level of slavery.The populous villages of mount Tauris were filled with horsemen and archers;they resisted the imposition of tributes, but they recruited the armies of Justinian;and his cwilmagistrates, the proconsul of Cappadocia, the count of Isauria, and theprsetor^ of Lycaonia and Pisidia, were invested with military power to restrain thelicentious practice of rapes and assassinations. (5) If we .extend our view from the tropic to the mouth of the Tanais we may ob­serve on one hand, the precautions of Justinian to curb the savages of Ethiopia, (6)and on the other, the long walls which he constructed in Crimea for the protectionof his friendly Goths, a colony of three thousand shepherds and warriors. (7) From (1) Trebellius Pollio in Hist. August, p. 107. who tired under Diocletian, or Conslantine. See likewise Pan-cirolus, ad Not. Imp. Orient, c. lis. 141. See Cod. Theodos. lib. xi. tit. 35. leg. 37. with a copious collectiveAnnotation of Godefroy, torn. iii. p. 256.257. (2) See the full and wide extent of their inroads in Philostorgius (Hist. Eccles. lib. ii. e. 8.,) with Godefroy'slearned Dissertations. (3) Cod. Justinian, lib. ix. tit. 12. leg. 10. The punishments are severe—a fine of a hundred pounds of gold,degradation, and even death. The public peace might afford a pretence, but Zeno was desirous of monopo­lizing the valour and service of the Isaurians. (4) The Isaurian war and the triumph of Anastasius are briefly and darkly represented by John Malala [torn,ii. p. 106,107.;) Evagrius (lib. iii. c. 35.;) Theophanes (p. 118—120.;) and the Chronicle of Marcellinus. (5) Fortes ea regio (says Justinian) viros habel, nec in ullo differt ab Isauria, though Procopius (Persic lib. i.c. 13.^ marks an essential difference between their military character; yet in former times the Lycaonians andPisuham had defended their liberty against the great king (Xenophon, Anabasis, lib. iii. c. 2.) Justinian in­troduces some false and ridiculous erudition of the ancient empire of the Pisidians, and the Lycaonians, who,after visiting Rome (long before iEneas,) gave a name and people to Lycaonia (Novell. 24,25. 27. 30.) (6) See Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 19. The altar of national concord, of annual sacrifice and oaths, whichDiocletian had erected in the isle of Elephantine, was demolished by Justinian with less policy than zeal. (7) Procopius de Edificiis, lib. iii. c. 7. Hist. lib. viii. c. 3,4. These unambitious Goths had refused to fol­low the standard of Theodoric. As late as the fifteenth and sixteenth century, the name and nation might bediscovered between Cafiaand the straits of Azepli (d'AnvilleMenioiresderAcademie, torn. xxx. p. 240.) Theywell deserved the curiosity of Busbequius (p. 321—326.;) but seem to have vanished in the more recent ae-■ecunt of the Missions du Levant (torn, i.,) Tott Peyssoncl, &c.