OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 27 Josephus was then in fear for the city, and leaped out, andall the Jewish multitude with him: these fell together uponthe Romans in great numbers, and drove them away fromthe wall, and performed a great many glorious and bold ac­tions. Yet did they suffer as much as they made the enemysuffer ; for as despair of deliverance encouraged the Jews, sodid a sense of shame equally encourage the Romans. Theselast had skill as well as strength; the other had only courage,which armed them and made them fight furiously. Andwhen the fight had lasted all day, it was put an end to bythe coming on of the night. They had wounded a greatmany of the Romans, and killed of them thirteen men; of theJews' side seventeen were slain, and six hundred wounded. 6. On the next day the Jews made another attack uponthe Romans, and went out of the walls, and fought a muchmore desperate battle with them than before : for they werenow become more courageous than formerly, and that onaccount of the unexpected good opposition they had madethe day before; as they found the Romans also to fight moredesperately; for a sense of shame inflamed these into apassion, as esteeming their failure of a sudden victory to bea kind of defeat. Thus did the Romans try to make an im­pression upon the Jews, till the fifth day continually, whilethe people of Jotapata made sallies out, and fought at thewalls most desperately; nor were the Jews affrighted at thestrength of the enemy, nor were the Romans discouraged atthe difficulties they met with in taking the city. 7. Now Jotapata is almost all of it built on a precipice,having on all the other sides of it every way valleys im­mensely deep and steep, insomuch that those who would lookdown, would have their sight fail them before it reaches tothe bottom. It is only to be come at on the north side,where the utmost part of the city is built on the mountain,as it ends obliquely at a plain. This mountain Josephushad encompassed with a wall when he fortified the city, thatits top might not be capable of being seized upon by theenemies. The city is covered all round with other mountains,and can no way be seen till a man comes just upon it. Andthis w»« **"* -* -:*—*:«-, of Jotapata.