OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 37 by this stubborn answer the adversaries of the causeof the Privernians were the more exasperated againstthem, and wishing, by a question of favorable import,to draw from him a more conciliating reply, said tohim, ' What if we remit the punishment, in what man­ner may we expect that you will observe the peacewhich shall be established between us?' He replied,' If the peace which you grant us be a good one, invio­lably and eternally; if bad, for no long continuance.'On this several exclaimed that the Privernian menacedthem, and not in-ambiguous terms; and that such ex­pressions were calculated to excite rebellion. But themore reasonable part of the senate interpreted his an­swers more favorably, and said that ' the words whichthey had beard were those of a man, and of one whoknew what it was to be free. Could it be believed thatany people, or even any individual, would remainlonger than necessity constrained in a situation whichhe felt painful ? that the terms of a peace were faith­fully observed only when they were voluntarily ac­cepted ; but that it was absurd to expect fidelity whenattempts were made to establish slavery.' In this opi­nion they were led to concur, principally by the consulhimself, who frequently observed to the consulars, whohad proposed the different resolutions, in such a manneras to be heard by the rest, that ' surely those men whothought of nothing but liberty were worthy of beingmade Romans.' They consequently carried their causein the senate : and moreover, by direction of that body,a proposal was laid before the people that the freedomof the state should be granted to the Privernians.This year a colony of three hundred was sent to Anxur,and received two acres of land each. 22. The year following, [A.U. C. 427. B.C. 325] inwhich the consuls were Publius Plautius Proculus andPublius Cornelius Scapula, was remarkable for no onetransaction, civil or military, except the sending of acolony to Fregellae, a district which had belonged tothe Sidicinians, and afterwards to the Volscians; anda distribution of meat to the people, made by Marcus