OCR Output AN, 1106.] 201 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. should overthrow the Philistines; and thatagainst what nations soever he should makewar, he should be the conqueror, and survivethe tight; and that while he lived he shouldenjoy a glorious name, and afterwards trans­mit it to his posterity. So Samuel, when he had given him theseadmonitions, went away. But the divine Eovver departed from Saul, and removed to•avid; who upon this removal of the divinespirit to him, began to prophesy. But as forSaul, some strange and demoniacal disorders*came upon him; and brought upon him suchsuffocations, as were ready to choke him.For when the physicians could find no otherremedy but this; if any person could charmthose passions by singing, and playing uponthe harp, they advised them to enquire forsuch a one, and to observe, when these de­mons came upon him, and disturbed him; andto take care that such a person might standover him, andf play on the harp, and recitehymns to him. Accordingly Saul did notdelay; but commanded them to seek outsuch a man. And when a certain bystandersaid, that he had seen in the city Bethlehem,a son of Jesse, who was yet no more than achild in age, but comely and beautiful, and inother respects one that was deserving of greatregard; who was skilful in playing on theharp, and in singing hymns; and an excellentsoldier in war; he sent to Jesse, and desiredhim to take David away from the flocks, andto send him to him; for he had a mind to seehim, as having heard an advantageous cha­racter of his comeliness and his valour. SoJesse sent his son, and gave him presents tocarry to Saul. And when he was come, Saul was pleased with him, and made him hisarmour-bearer, and held him in very greatesteem; for he charmed his passion, and wasthe only physician against the trouble he hadfrom the demons, whenever it came uponhim; and this by reciting of hymns, andplaying upon the harp, and bringing Saul tohis right mind again. However, he sent tothe father of the child, and desired him topermit David to stay with him; for that hewas delighted with his company. Whichstay, that he might not contradict Saul, Jessereadily granted. CHAP. IX. OF ANOTHER EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINSTTHE HEBREWS, UNDER THE REIGN OF SAUL, AND OFTHEIR DEFEAT, BY DAVID SLAYING GOLIATH IN SINGLECOMBAT. NOW the Philistines gathered themselvestogether again, no very long time after­ward: and having assembled a great army,they made war against the Israelites; andhaving seized a place between Shochoh andAzekah,J they there pitched their camp.Saul also drew out his army to oppose them.And by pitching his own camp on a certainhill, he forced the Philistines to leave theirformer station, and to encamp themselvesupon such another hill, over against that onwhich Saul's army lay, so that a valley whichwas between the two hills on which they lay,divided their camps asunder. Now therecame down a man out of the camp of thePhilistines, whose name was Goliath, of thecity Gath; a man of vast bulk, for he was of jjfour cubits and a span in tallness;§ and had * 1 Sam. xvi. 14. t Spanheim takes notice here, that the Greeks hadsuch singers of hymns; and that usually children or youthwere chosen for that service. As also that those calledsingers to the harp, did the same that David did here, i. e.join their own vocal and instrumental music together. J Soccoth and Azekah lay to the south of Jerusalem,and the east of Bethlehem, about four leagues from theformer, and five from the latter, and the ancient valley ofElah must consequently lie not far distant from them,though later travellers place it at no more than a league'sdistance from Jerusalem. Calmef s Commentary. B. i! Six in the Hebrew; four in the Septuagint. § The words in the text are,—Wliose height was sixcubits and a span; so that taking a cubit to be twentyinches and a half, and a span to be three inches, and alittle more, the whole will amount to about twelve feetand a half. A stature above as tall again as usual! The lowest computation of the cubit, however, brings it to nearten feet, which is the standard that we have set it at;though it must not be dissembled, that both the Septuagintand Josephus have reduced it to little more than eightfeet, which badly comports with the weight and vastnessof his armour, though it might suit their design perhaps,in accommodating their account to the credibility of theirHeathen readers. But be that as it will, several authors,to shew this vast size of the man not to be beyond thebounds of probability, have written, ex prqfesso de gigant-ibus, among whom Hermannus Conringius, in his bookDe antiquo statu Holmstadii, and in another De habitu cor-porum Germanorum, have demonstrated, that the ancientGermans were of a vast size, even as Cassar, De belloGall, testifies of them, by calling them, cimmani orporummagnitudine homines, men of huge greatness of body.Nay, even Josephus himself, who is quoted for denyingthe existence of giants, furnishes us with an argument in