OCR Output 290 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. however borrow of him zs much as might redeem his brother,aiid put into his hands, as a pledge, the son of him that was tobe redeemed ; accordingly he led his brother's son along withhim, who was of the age of seven years. Now he was ready togive three hundred talents for his brother, and intended to desirethe intecession of the Tyrians, to get them accepted ; howeverfate had been too quick for his diligence ; and since Phasaeluswas dead, Herod's brotherly love was now in vain. Moreover,he was not able to find any lasting friendship among the Arabi足ans; for their king, Mali thus,,sent to him immediately, and com足manded him to returnback out of his country, and used the nameof the Parthenians as a pretence for so doing, as though these haddenounced to him by their ambassadors to cast Herod out ofArabia ; while in reality they had amind to keep back what theyowed to Antipater, and not be obliged to make requitals to hissons for the free gifts the father had made them. He alsotook the impudent advice of those who, equally with himself,were willing to deprive Herod of what Antipater had depositedamong them ; and these men were the most potent of all whomhe had in his kingdom. 2. So when Herod had found that the Arabians were his ene足mies,and this for those very reasons whence he hoped they wouldhave been the most friendly, and had given them such an answer ashispassion suggested,he returnedback and went for Egypt. Nowhe lodged the first evening at one of the temples of that country, inorder to meet with those whomhe left behind; but on the next dayword was brought him, as he was going to Rhinocurura, that hisbrother was dead, and how he came by his death ; and when hehad lamented him as much as his present circumstances couldbear, he soon laid aside such cares, and proceeded on his journey.But now, after some time, the king of Arabia repented of whathe had done, and sent presently away messengers to call him back:Herod had prevented them, and was come to Pelusium, where hecould not obtain a passage from those that lay with the fleet, sohe besought their captains to let him go by them ; accordingly,out of the reverence they bore to the fame and dignity of theman, they conducted him to Alexandria; and when he came in足to the city, he was received by Cleopatra with great splendour,who hoped he might be persuaded to be commander of her for-*ces in the expedition she was now about; but he rejected thequeen's solicitations,and being neither affrighted at the height ofthat storm which then happened, nor at the tumults that werenow in Italy, he sailed for Rome. i 3. But as he was in peril about Pamphilia, and obliged to castcm the greatest part of the ships lading, he, with difficulty, got