OCR Output SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM. 895 it laictthe Hirpini was (till in the bands of the■riupniiis, ind became the scene of the opera­nt! d HxuiibaTa lieutenant Hanno against Sem-ntiiu Gracchus. It was not till B. c. 209 that,.'irmiitl hiving been finally compelled to relinquish.< bold open Central Italy, the Hirpini (and appa-mly tlw other revolted Samnites also) renewed>ir ubnissioo to Borne. (Lit. xxvii. 15.)from this lime we hear no more of the Samnites: iwtorr till the (Treat outbreak of the Italianinv commonly known as the Social War, B. c. 90,vtuchtbey once more took a prominent part. Theyin net indeed among the first to take up arms,i quickly followed the example of the PicentesilMina; and so important an element did theyaniline of the confederation, that of the two con-U ctkaro as the leaders of the allies, one was aasite, Cains Papius Mutilus. (Diod. xxxvii. 2.US.) Besides Papius, several of the most dia-;C)M of the Italian generals, Marius Egnatius,*a Telennus, and Trebatius, were also of Sam-m t#ipn; and after the fall of Corfinium, the seatrmmmeot and head-quart ere of the allies wasaimed to the Samnite town of Boviannm, andn Ibence subsequently to Aesernia. The Sam-» iodnd suffered severely in the second cam-ra of the war, being attacked by Sulla, whoPtpios Mutilus, took Aeculaimm and Bo­ars ey assault, and reduced the Hirpini to sub-a-m. The other Samnites, however, stilt held out,u irmy which liad thrown itself into Kola wasif prolong its resistance against all the effortsails. Hence at the end of the second year of*ar(a.c. 69), when all the other nations of> lud tncreasively submitted and been admittedw kVmaa franchise, the Samnites and Lucaniansi atlTl unsubdued, and maintained a kind of"M warfare in their mountains, while the strongn> of N'oia enabled them still to maintain theiraria Campania. (Veil. Pat. ii. 17; Liv. Epit.■ tioi. xxrriL 2. p. 540: Appian, B. C. i. 53.)ic% ttaie of things the civil war which broke*i«een Sulla and Marius altered the nature ofn2-,!e»& Tbe Samnites warmly espoused thei" essse, from a natural feeling of enmity to-I Sella, from whose arms they had recently*i m severely; and so important was the sharetosk in tbe struggle that ensued after thea of Sulla to Italy (b. c. 83), that they in3*ware imparted to what was otherwise aaril war, the character of a national contest.'.- nimber of them served in the army of theyr Marios, which was defeated by Sulla atur-zs (Appian, B.C. i. 87); and shortly after-i an army, composed principally of Samnites-'irmntarift. nnder the command of C. Pontiusteas, made a desperate attempt to relieveby marching suddenly upon Rome. Theya»! by the army of Sulla at the very gates ofsr. aad tbe battle at the Colline gate (Nor. 1,W), though it terminated in the complete'T ■ f Sulla, was long remembered as one of theM dangers to which Koine had ever been cx-. (Vett. Pat. ii. 27; Appian, B. C. i. 93: Pint.Is; LoesA, ii. 135—138.) Pontius Telesinnalie field, and So.Ua displayed his implacablet tswarda the Samnites by putting to the: »i:hoot mercT, 80O0 prisoners who had beenta the battle. (Appian, Lc; Strab. v. 249;fwJl 30 ) He bad already put to death alllean be had taken prisoners at the battle of Sacriportus, alleging that they were theeternal enemies of the Roman name; and he now fol­lowed up this declaration by a systematic devastationof their country, carried on with the express pur­pose of extirpating the whole nation. (Strab. /. c.)It can hardly be believed that he fully carried outthis sanguinary resolution, but we learn from Strabothat more than a centnry afterwards the provincewas still in a state of the utmost desolation,—manyof what had once been nourishing cities beingreduced to the condition of mere villages, whileothers had altogether ceased to exist. (Strab. L c.) Nor is it probable that the province ever reallyrecovered from this state of depression. The rheto­rical expressions of Florus point to its being in hisday still in a state of almost complete desolation.(Flor. i. 16. § 8.) Some attempts seem indeed tohave been made under the Roman Empire to recruitits population with fresh colonists, especially byNero, who founded colonies at Saepinum, Telesia,and Aesernia (Lib. Colon, pp. 259, 260, Ac); butnone of these attained to any great prosperity, andthe whole region seems to have been very thinlypopulated and given up chiefly to pasturage, Rene-ventum alone retained its importance, and continuedto be a flourishing city throughout the period of theRoman Empire. In the division of Italy under Au­gustus the land of tbe Hirpini was separated fromthe rest of Samnium, and was placed in the SecondRegion with Apulia and Calabria, while the rest ofthe Samnites were included in the Fourth Region,together with the Sabines, Frentani, I'eligni, Ac.(Plin. iii. 11. s. 16, 12. s. 17.) At a later peri.dthis district was broken np, and Samnium with theland of the Frentani constituted a separate province.This is the arrangement which we find in the No-titia, and it was probably introduced at an earlierperiod, as the Liber Ooloniarum in one part givesunder a separate head the 11 Civitates Regionis Sam-mi," including under that name the towns of thePcligni, as well as the Frentani. (A'otifc Dign. ii.pp. 9, 10; Lib. Colon, p. 259.) In another part ofthe same document, which is undoubtedly derivedfrom different sources, the Samnite towns are classedunder the head of Campania; but this union, if itever really subsisted, could have been but of verybrief duration. The "Provincia Samnii" is re­peatedly mentioned in inscriptions of the 4th cen­tury, and was governed by an officer styled " Prae-ses." (Mommsen, Die Lib. CoL p. 206.) Thesame appellation continued in use after the fall ofthe Roman Empire, and the name of Samnium as aseparate province is found both in Cassiodorus andPaulus Diaconus. (Cassiod. Vor. xi. 36; P. Diac.llist. Lang. ii. 20.) The only towns in it that re­tained any consideration in the time of the last writerwere Aufidena, Aesernia, and Beneventum. Thelast of these cities became under the Lombards thecapital of an independent and powerful duchy, whichlong survived the fall of the Lombard kingdom inthe N. of Italy. But in the revolutions of the middleages all trace of the name and ancient limits ofSamnium was lost. At the present day the nameof Siinnio is indeed given to a province of thekingdom of Naples; but this is merely an officisldesignation, recently restored, to the district, whichhad previously been called the ContaJo di Molitte.This and the adjoining province of the PrmcijHitoUltra comprise the greater part of tbe ancient Sam­nium; but the modem boundaries have no referenceto the ancient divisions, and a considerable portion