OCR Output 322 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. terms. The senate submitted itself unconditionally to theoutlawed consul, adding only a request that he would refrainfrom bloodshed. Cinna promised this, but refused to ratifyhis promise by an oath; Marius, who kept by his side duringthe negotiations, maintained a sullen silence.Marian The gates of the capital were opened. The consul roign of marched in with his legions ; but Marius, scoffingly recallingterror. ^g jaw of outlawry, refused to set foot in the city until thelaw allowed him to do so, and the burgesses hastily assem足bled in the Forum to pass the annulling decree. He thenentered, and with him the reign of terror. It was deter足mined not to select individual victims, but to have all thenotable men of the Optimate party put to death and toconfiscate their goods. The gates were closed; for five daysand five nights the slaughter continued without interruption;even afterwards the execution of individuals who had escapedor been overlooked was of daily occurrence, and for mouthsthe bloody persecution went on throughout Italy. Theconsul Gnaeus Octavius was the first victim. True to hisoften expressed principle, that he would rather suffer deaththan make the smallest concession to men beyond the paleof law, he refused eveb. now to take flight, and in his con足sular robes awaited at the Janiculum the assassin, who wasnot slow to appear. Among the slain were Lucius Caesar90. (consul in 664) the celebrated victor of Acerrae (P. 243);his brother Gaius, whose unseasonable ambition had provokedthe Sulpician tumult, well known as an orator and poet and09. as an amiable companion; Marcus Antonius (consul in 655),after the death of Lucius Crassus beyond dispute the first97. forensic pleader of his time; Publius Crassus (consul in 657)who had commanded with distinction in the Spanish and inthe Social wars and also during the siege of lionie; and amultitude of the most considerable men of the governmentparty, among whom the wealthy were traced out with especialzeal by the greedy executioners. Peculiarly melancholyseemed the death of Lucius Merula, who very much againsthis own wish had become China's successor, and who now,when criminally impeached on that account and cited beforethe comitia, in order to anticipate the inevitable condemna足tion opened his veins, and at the altar of the SupremeJupiter whose priest he was, after laying aside the priestlyheadband as the religious duty of the dying Flamen required,breathed his last: and still more the death of Quint us Catulus