OCR Output PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 237 history and a sacred scrupulousness to say nothing that shall in the least defileor degrade it, pervades all his historical writings. While therefore we admirethem as works of art arid study them as lessons of moral and political wisdom,we may also confide in them (with the necessary allowance for human in­firmity) as fountains of historical truti,, none the less true, but all the moreconvincing and persuasive, for the skill with which he arranges his facts, theearnestness with which he inculcates his sentiments and the eloquence withwhich they are adorned. A glance at the principal events and leading characteristics of the period,which Tacitus has selected for his Histories, may afford an opportunity toobserve somewhat more particularly the writer's manner of treating his sub­ject, and may at the same time prepare the reader to follow him through thedetails with more intelligent interest. The first three emperors reigned in allonly about a year and a half, and all came to a violent death. Galba filledthe throne only seven months, Otho less than four, and Vitejus about eight,after which little and brief authority, they fell victims successively to thesame policy by which they had in succession risen to power—they took thesword, and they perished by the sword. Till the dethronement of Nero,the emperors had been nominally appointed by the senate, though the powerof the senate really extended no farther than to confirm the nomination of theirsuccessors by those who held the supreme authority. Now this nominal powerwas wrested from the senate and usurped by the troops. And since one armyhad as good a right as another to the honor and advantage of placing theircommander on the throne, there was a general rush for the city and the spoilsfrom every quarter of the empire. Galba was the first to disclose the secretthat an emperor could be nominated in a province as well as in the city, andinvested with the imperial purple by the military instead of the civil power(His. 1, 4); and he was the first victim to this disastrous change in the policyof the state. He was named emperor by the legions under his own commandin Spain, and when their courage began to falter in so novel and hazardous anenterprise, he was raised to the throne by the Praetorian Guards in the capital,who were inflamed with resentment at the atrocious designs of Nero and fur­ther stimulated by the hope of an immense reward which had been promisedthem in the name, though without the authority, of Galba. But when theysaw that the donative was withheld, which could not be bestowed without arenewal of all the extortion and proscription of Nero himself—nay more, whenthey discovered that Galba would not indulge them in all the licentiousnessand crime in which they had revelled under Nero, the same Pnetorian Guardshurled him headlong from the throne, severed his head from his body, and lefthim weltering in hia gore. Galba had some apology for his ambition. Hisonly alternative was the scaffold or the throne. Happy for the reputation ofthe old soldier—happy, we might almost say, for the old soldier himself, if hehad chosen the former. " He seemed too great for a private man while hewas one," says Tacitus, in one of those pregnant sentences of his which sooften body forth a whole character, ' as the cope of heaven is imaged in adewdrop,' " and the suffrages of all mankind would have pronounced himworthy of empire, had he never made the experiment—omnium consensucapax imperii, nisi imperasset" (His. I, 49). Otho had no such excuse. He had been the first to espouse the cause ol