OCR Output 266 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. mdeed an eminent person and one of a great soul. However,the senate let his children go, upon Gabinius' writing to them,that he had promised their mother so much when she deliveredup the fortresses to him; and accordingly they then returned intoJudea. 2. Now when Gabinius was making an expedition against theParthians, and had already passed over Euphrates, he changedhis mind and resolved to return into Egypt, in order to * re­store Ptolemy to his kingdom. This hath also been related else­where. However, Antipater supplied his army, which he sentagainst Archelans, with corn and weapons, and money. Healso made those Jews who were above Felusium, his friends andconfederates, and had been the guardians of the passes that ledinto Egypt. But when he came back out of Egypt, he foundSyria in disorder, with seditions and troubles; for Alexander,the son of Aristobulus, having seized on the government asecond time by force, made many of the Jews revolt to him, andso he marched over the country with a great army, and slew allthe Romans he could light upon, and proceeded to besiege themountain called Gerrizzim, whither they had retreated. 3. But when Gabinius found Syria in such a state, he sent An­tipater who was a prudent man, to those that were seditious,to try whether he could cure them of their madness, and per­suade them to return to a better mind, and when he came tothem, he brought many of them to a sound mind, and inducedthem to do what they ought to do, but he could not restrainAlexander, for he had an army of thirty- thousand Jews, andmet Gabinius, and joining battle with him, was beaten, and lostten thousand of his men about mount Tabor. 4. So Gabinius settled the affairs which belonged to the cityJerusalem, as was agreeable to Antipater's inclination, and wentagainst the Nabateans, and overcame them in battle. He alsosent away in a friendly manner Mithridates and Orsanes, whowere Parthian deserters, and came to himr though the reportwent abroad that they had run away from him. And when Ga­binius had performed great and glorious actions, in his manage­ment of the affairs of war, he returned to Rome, and deliveredthe government to Crassus. Now, Nicolaus of Damascus, andStrabo of Cappadocia, both describe the expeditions of Pompeyand Gabinius against the Jews, while neither of them say anything new which is not in the other. » Tliis history is best illustrated by Dr. Hudson out of Livy, who says,"That A. Gabinius the proconsul, restored Ptolemy to his kingdom of Egypt,"and ejected Archelaus, whom they had set up for king," &c. See Prid. at theyears 64 and 65.