OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. most faithful of the enemy; and his fortunate captives,the Vandals, the Moors, and the Goths, emulated theattachment of his domestic followers. By the union ofliberality and justice, he acquired the love of the soldiers,without alienating the affections of the people. Thesick and wounded were relieved with medicines andmoney; and, still more efficaciously, by the healing visitsand smiles of their commander. The loss of a weaponor a horse was instantly repaired, and each deed of valourwas rewarded by the rich and honourable gifts of a brace­let or a collar, which were rendered more precious bythe, judgment of Belisarius. He was endeared to thehusbandmen, by the peace and plenty which they enjoy­ed under the shadow of his standard. Instead of beinginjured, the country was enriched by the march of theRoman armies; and such was the rigid discipline of theircamp, that not an apple was gathered from the tree, nota path could be traced in the fields of corn. Belisariuswas chaste and sober. In the licence of a military life,none could boast that they had seen him intoxicated withwine: the most beautiful captives of Gothic or Vandalrace were offered to his embraces; but he turned asidefrom their charms, and the husband of Antonina wasnever suspected of violating the laws of conjugal fidelity.The spectator and historian of his exploits has observed,that, amidst the perils of war, he was daring withoutrashness, prudent without fear, slow or rapid accordingto the exigencies of the moment; that in the deepestdistress he was animated by real or apparent hope, butthat he was modest and humble in the most prosperousfortune. By these virtues, he equalled or excelled theancient masters of the military art. Victory, by sea andland, attended his arms. He subdued Africa, Italy, andthe adjacent islands, led away captives the successors ofGenseric and Theodoric; filled Constantinople with thespoils of their palaces, and in the space of six years reco­vered half the provinces of the western empire. In his