OCR Output 2Ifi ROMAN EMPIRE. neral liberty of speech and practice; and the only vir­tue of his reign is accused by the monks as the causeof his temporal and eternal perdition. Superstition andweakness formed the character of Michael I. but thesaints and images were incapable of supporting their vo­tary on the throne. In the purple, Leo V. asserted thename and religion of an Armenian; and the idols, withtheir seditious adherents, were condemned to a secondexile. Their applause would have sanctified the murderof an impious tyrant; but his assassin and successor, thesecond Michael, was tainted from his birth with the Phry­gian heresies: he attempted to mediate between the con­tending parties; and the intractable spirit of the Catho­lics insensibly cast him into the opposite scale. His mo­deration was guarded by timidity; but his son Theophi-lus, alike ignorant of fear and pity, was the last and mostcruel of the Iconoclasts. The enthusiasm of the timesran strongly against them: and the emperors, who stem­med the torrent, were exasperated and punished by thepublic hatred. After the death of Theophilus the finalvictory of the images was achieved by a second female,his widow Theodora, whom he left the guardian of theempire. Her measures were bold and decisive. Thefiction of a tardy repentance absolved the fame and thesoul of her deceased husband ; the sentence of the Icono­clast patriarch was commuted from the loss of his eyesto a whipping of two hundred lashes: the bishops trem­bled, the monks shouted, and the festival of orthodoxypreserves the annual memory of the triumph of theimages. A single question yet remained, whether theyare endowed with any proper and inherent sanctity; itwas agitated by the Greeks of the eleventh century;™and as this opinion has the strongest recommendation ofabsurdity, I am surprised that it was not more explicitlydecided in the affirmative. In the west, pope Hadrian I. "' See an account of this controversy in the Alerius of Anna Comnena (lib. 5.p. 199.)and Mosheirn. (Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 371, 37*.)