OCR Output 488 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. the danger of his kingdom, the powers of Chosroes werealready recalled from the Nile and the Bosphorus, andthree formidable armies surrounded, in a distant andhostile land, the camp of the emperor. The Colchianallies prepared to desert his standard; and the fears ofthe bravest veterans were expressed, rather than conceal­ed, by their desponding silence. "Be not terrified (saidthe intrepid Heraclius) by the multitude of your foes.With the aid of heaven, one Roman may triumph overa thousand barbarians. But if we devote our lives for thesalvation of our brethren, we shall obtain the crown ofmartyrdom, and our immortal reward will be liberally paidby God and posterity." These magnanimous sentimentswere supported by the vigour of his actions. He repelledthe threefold attack of the Persians, improved the divi­sions of their chiefs, and by a well-concerted train ofmarches, retreats, and successful actions, finally chasedthem from the field into the fortified cities of Media andAssyria. In the severity of the winter season, Sabarazadeemed himself secure in the walls of Salban; he was sur­prised by the activity of Heraclius, who divided his troopsand performed a laborious march in the silence of thenight. The flat roofs of the houses were defended withuseless valour against the darts and torches of the Ro­mans: the satraps and nobles of Persia, with their wivesand children, and the flower of their martial youth, wereeither slain or made prisoners. The general escaped bya precipitate flight, but his golden armour was the prizeof the conqueror ; and the soldiers of Heraclius enjoyedthe wealth and repose which they had so nobly deserved.On the return of spring, the emperor traversed in sevendays the mountains of Curdistan, and passed without re­sistance the rapid stream of the Tigris. Oppressed by theweight of their spoils and captives, the Roman armyhalted under the walls of Amida; and Heraclius inform­ed the senate of Constantinople of his safety and success,which they had already felt by the retreat of the be-