OCR Output AN.no.] 481 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. her generals Chelcias and Ananias, the sonsof that Onias who built the temple in theprefecture of Heliopolis, like to that at Je­rusalem; as we have *elsewhere related.Cleopatra entrusted these men with her ar­my; and did nothing without their advice; asfStrabo of Cappadocia attests, when he saiththus, "Now the greater part, both those thatcame to Cyprus with us, and those that weresent afterward thither, revolted to Ptolemyimmediately. Only those that were calledOnias's party, being Jews, continued faithful:because their countrymen Chelcias and Ana­nias were in chief favour with the queen." This prosperous state of affairs howevermoved the Jews to envy Hyrcanus; but theythat were the worst disposed to him were theJPharisees, who are one of the sects of theJews, as we have ||observed already. Thesehave so great a power over the multitude,that when they say any thing against theking, or against the high-priest, they are pre­sently believed. Now Hyrcanus was a dis­ciple of theirs; and greatly beloved by them.And when he once invited them to a feast,and entertained them very kindly; when hesaw them in a good humour, he began tosay to them, that they knew he was desirous to be a righteous man, and to do all thingswhereby he might please God: which was the £rofession of the Pharisees also. However,e desired that if they observed him offendingin any point, and going out of the right way,they would recall him back, and correct him.On this occasion they attested to his beingentirely virtuous; with which commendationhe was well pleased. But still there was oneof his guests there, whose name was §Elea-zar, a man of an ill temper, and delighting inseditious practices. This man said: "Sincethou desirest to know the truth, if thou wiltbe righteous in earnest, lay down thy high-priesthood, and content thyself with the civilgovernment of the people." And when he de­sired to know for what cause he ought to laydown the high-priesthood: the other replied,"We have heard it from old men, that thymother had been a captive under the reign ofAntiochus Epiphanes." This story was false:and both Hyrcanus and all the Pharisees hada very great indignation against him. Now there was one Jonathan, a great friendof Hyrcanus's, but of the sect of the Saddu­cees;** whose notions are quite contrary tothose of the Pharisees. He told Hyrcanus,that "Eleazar had cast such a reproach upon * Book XII. chap. 9. t We may observe here, that this and nine more ofJosephus's citations out of Strabo, are not now extant:nay, that no more than one of his ten citations out of himare now extant: which is that taken out of his geography.The occasion is evident; that though Strabo's geographybe extant, yet are all his historical writings lost. SeeFabricius on Strabo, Biblioth. Graec. IV. 1, 7. I The origin of the Sadducees, as a considerable party,among the Jews, being contained in this and the two fol­lowing sections, take Dean Prideaux's note upon thistheir first public appearance: which I suppose to be true."Hyrcanus," says he, "went over to the party of theSadducees; that is, by embracing their doctrine againstthe traditions of the elders, added to the written law, andmade of equal authority with it: but not their doctrineagainst the resurrection, and a future state. For this can­not be supposed of so good and righteous a man as JohnHyrcanus is said to be. It is most probable, that at thistime the Sadducees had gone no farther in the doctrinesof that sect, than to deny all their unwritten traditions,which the Pharisees were so fond of. For Josephusmentions no other difference at this time between them:neither doth he say that Hyrcanus went over to the Sad­ducees in any other particular than in the abolishing ofall the traditionary constitutions of the Pharisees: whichour Saviour condemned as well as they." II Chap. 5. § This slander, that arose from a Pharisee, has beenpreserved by their successors, the Rabbins, to these latter ages. For Dr. Hudson assures us, that David Ganz, inhis Chronology, S. Pr. page 77, in Vorstius's version, re­lates that Hyrcanus's mother was taken captive in mountModiith. Sec chap. 13, and Reland in Palaestin. page 901.** In what sense the Sadducees denied the existence ofangels, it is difficult to determine, since they certainlyacknowledge the authority of the Pentateuch. Somepretend, that they accounted the invention of angels buta novel thing, and that their very name was never heardof, until the return from the captivity, and therefore theyrejected them; whilst others suppose, that they lookedupon them as the inseparable powers of God, which,like the rays of the sun, without being parted from thatplanet, shine and shed their influence here below. Butnow considering that the Sadducees received the fivebooks of Moses, they could hardly entertain any suchnotions as these. As therein they read of frequent appa­ritions of angels, they could not fancy them a new inven­tion of Rabbins that had returned from the captivity.As they saw in these books, that they properly camedown from heaven upon earth, they could not imaginethat they were beings inseparable from the Deity; andtherefore we may suppose, that they rather looked uponthem only as so many phantasms; and that, as the bodies,which these angels put on, had perhaps only the appear­ance of human bodies, the same notion they might haveof the spirits which animated them; because every thingexcept God, in their opinion, was material. Basnage'sHistory of the Jews, lib. 1. c. 6. Mr. Basnage, though heallows the question to be difficult, seems to be of a contrary