OCR Output 128 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI. 'that Bagoses, the general of * another Artaxerxes' army,polluted the temple, and imposed tributes on the Jews, that outof the public stock, before they offered the daily sacrifices, theyshould pay for every lamb fifty shekels. Now Jesus was thebrother of John, and was a friend of Bagoses, who had promisedto procure him the high priesthood. In confidence of whose sup­port, Jesus quarrelled with John in the temple, and so provokedhis brother, that in his anger his brother slew him. Now it wasa horrible thing for John, when he was high priest, to perpe­trate so great a crime; and so much the more horrible, that therenever was so cruel and impious a thing done, neither by theGreeks nor Barbarians. However, God did not neglect itspunishment, but the people were on that very account enslavedand the temple was polluted by the Persians. Now when Ba­goses, the general of Artaxerxes' army, knew that John, thehigh priest of the Jews, had slain his own brother Jesus in th'etemple, he came upon the Jews immediately, and began in angerto say to them, "Have you had the impudence to perpetrate a." murder in your temple!" And as he was aiming to go intothe temple, they forbade him so to do; but he said to them,"Am not I purer than he that was slain in the temple?" And'when he had said these words, he went into the temple. Ac­cordingly, Bagoses made use of this pretence, and punished theJews seven years for the murder of Jesus. 2. Now when John had departed this life, his son Jaddua suc­ceeded in the high priesthood. He had a brother, whose namewas Manasseh. Now there was one Sanballat, who was sent byDarius, the last king [of Persia,] into Samaria. He was aCuthean by birth; of which stock were the Samaritans also. Thisman knew that the city Jerusalem was a famous city, and thattheir kings had given a great deal of trouble to the Assyrians,and the people ot Celesyria; so that he willingly gave his daugh­ * Concerning this other Artaxerxes, called Mnemon, and the Persian afflictiwiand captivity of the Jews under him occasioned by the murder of the high priest'sbrother in the holy house itsetf, see Authent. Rec. at large, page 49. And if anywonder why Josephus wholly omits the rest of the kings of Persia after ArtaxIMnemon, till he came to their last king Darius, who was conquered by Alex-the Great, I shall give them Vossius' and Dr. Hudson's answer, though iiown word'-, viz. That Josephus did not do ill in omitting those kings of 1 ,-.,.,.with whom the Jews had no concern; because he was giving the history of the Jews,and not of the Persians: [which is a sufficient reason also why he entirely omitsthe history and the book of Job, as not particularly relating to that nation.] Hejustly, therefore, returns to the Jewish affairs after the death of Longimanus, with­out any mention of Darius II. before Artaxerxes Mnemon, or of the Ochus orArogus, as the Canon of Ptolemy names them after him. Nor had he probablymentioned this other Artaxerxes unless liagcties, one of the governors and comman­ders under him, had occasioned the pollution of the Jewish temple, and had greatly- distressed the Jews upon that pollution. Artaxerxesnderin myPersia