OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. fused a universal ardour; the Walamirs were multi­plied by the Gothic swarms already engaged in theservice, or seated in the provinces, of the empire; andeach bold barbarian, who had heard of the wealth andbeauty of Italy, was impatient to seek, through themost perilous adventures, the possession of such enchant­ing objects. The march of Theodoric must be consi­dered as the emigration of an entire people; the wivesand children of the Goths, their aged parents, and mostprecious effects, were carefully transported; and someidea may be formed of the heavy baggage that now fol­lowed the camp, by the loss of two thousand waggons,which had been sustained in a single action in the warof Epirus. For their subsistence, the Goths dependedon the magazines of corn which was ground in portablemills by the hands of their women; on the milk and fleshof their flocks and herds; on the casual produce of thechase, and upon the contributions which they might im­pose on all who should presume to dispute the passage, orto refuse their friendly assistance. Notwithstanding theseprecautions, they were exposed to the danger, and almostto the distress, of famine, in a march of seven hundredmiles, which had been undertaken in the depth of arigorous winter. Since the fall of the Roman power,Dacia and Pannonia no longer exhibited the rich pros­pect of populous cities, well-cultivated fields, and conve­nient highways: the reign of barbarism and desolationwas restored, and the tribes of Bulgarians, Gepidas, andSarmatians, who had occupied the vacant province, wereprompted by their native fierceness, or the solicitationsof Odoacer, to resist the progress of his enemy. Inmany obscure though bloody battles, Theodoric foughtand vanquished; till at length, surmounting every ob­stacle by skilful conduct and persevering courage, he de­scended from the Julian Alps, and displayed his invinci­ble banners on the confines of Italy/ * Theodoric's march is supplied and illnstrated by Ennodios,(p. 1598—1602.)when the bomhast of Ike oration is translated into the language of cummon sense. VOLr V. C