OCR Output 406 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. treroely oppressive burden imposed upon the state by theobligation under which Gaius Gracchus placed it to furnishcorn at nominal rates to the burgesses of the capital, wascertainly counterbalanced at first by the newly-openedsources of income in the province of Asia. Neverthelessthe public buildings seem from that time to have almostcome to a standstill. While the public works which can beshown to have been constructed from the battle of Pydnadown to the time of Gaius Gracchus were numerous, from122. the period after 632 there is scarcely mention of any otherthan the projects of bridges, roads, and drainage which109. Marcus jEmilius Scaurus organized as censor in 645. Itmust remain a moot point whether this was the effect of thelargesses of grain or, as is perhaps more probable, the con­sequence of the system of increased savings, such as befitteda government which became daily more and more a rigid oli­garchy, and such as is indicated by the statement that the91. Soman reserve reached its highest point in 663. The ter­rible storm of insurrection and revolution, in combinationwith the five years' deficit of the revenues of Asia Minor,was the first serious trial to which the Roman finances weresubjected after the Hannibalic war: they failed to sustainit. Nothing perhaps so clearly marks the difference of thetimes, as the circumstance that in the Hannibalic war itwas not till the tenth year of the struggle, when the bur­gesses were almost sinking under taxation, that the reservewas touched (ii. 174); whereas the Social war was from thefirst supported by the balance in hand, and when this wasexpended after two campaigns to the last penny, they pre­ferred to sell by auction the public sites in the capital(P. 254) and to seize the treasures of the temples (P. 334)rather than levy a tax on the burgesses. The storm however,severe as it was, passed over; Sulla, at the expense doubt­less of enormous economic sacrifices imposed on the subjectsand Italian revolutionists in particular, restored order to thefinances and, by abolishing the largesses of corn and retain­ing although in a reduced form the Asiatic revenues,'secured for the commonwealth a satisfactory economic con­dition, at least in the sense of the ordinary expenditureremaining far below the ordinary income.Private In the private economics of this period hardly any new economics, feature merges; the advantages and disadvantages formerlyset forth as incident to the social circumstances of Italy