OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1. son of Clovis dissembled his intentions, which he atlength declared, by assaulting, almost at the same instant,the hostile camps of the Romans and Goths. Instead ofuniting their arms, they fled with equal precipitation;and the fertile, though desolate, provinces of Liguria and./Emilia, were abandoned to a licentious host of barba­rians, whose rage was not mitigated by any thoughtsof settlement or conquest. Among the cities whichthey ruined, Genoa, not yet constructed of marble, isparticularly enumerated: and the deaths of thousands,according to the regular practice of war, appear to haveexcited less horror than some idolatrous sacrifices ofwomen and children, which were performed with impu­nity in the camp of the most Christian king. If it werenot a melancholy truth, that the first and most cruel suf­ferings must be the lot of the innocent and helpless, his­tory might exult in the misery of the conquerors, who,in the midst of riches, were left destitute of bread orwine, reduced to drink the waters of the Po, and to feedon the flesh of distempered cattle. The dysentery sweptaway one-third of their army; and the clamours of hissubjects, who were impatient to pass the Alps, disposedTheodebert to listen with respect to the mild exhorta­tions of Belisarius. The memory of this inglorious anddestructive warfare was perpetuated on the medals ofGaul: and Justinian, without unsheathing his sword,assumed the title of conqueror of the Franks. TheMerovingian prince was offended by the vanity of theemperor; he affected to pity the fallen fortunes of theGoths; and his insidious offer of a federal union wasfortified by the promise or menace of descending fromthe Alps at the head of five hundred thousand men. Hisplans of conquest were boundless, and perhaps chimerical.The king of Austrasia threatened to chastise Justinian,and to march to the gates of Constantinople :k he was k Agathias, lib. 1. p. 14, 15. Could he have seduced or subdued the Gepidc orLombards of Pannonia, the Greek historian is confident that lie mast have been de­stroyed in Thrace.