OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 425 and carried oft'that golden head of an ass (for so facetiouslydoes he write,) and then went his way back again to Dora ingreat haste." And say you so, sir? as I may reply: thendoes Apion load the ass, that is himself, and lays on him aburden of fooleries and lies: for he writes of places that haveno being, and not knowing the cities he speaks of, he changestheir situation ; for Idumea borders upon our country, and isnear to Gaza, in which there is no such city as Dora;although there be, it is true, a city named Dora in Phoe­nicia, near mount Carmel, but it is four days journey fromIdumea.1 Now, then, why does this man accuse us, becausewe have not gods in common with other nations ? If ourforefathers were so easily prevailed upon to have Apollocome to them, and thought they saw him walking upon theearth, and the stars with him; for certainly those who haveso many festivals, wherein they light lamps, must yet, at thisrate, have never seen a candlestick ! but still it seems thatwhile Zabidus took his journey over the country, where wereso many ten thousands of people, nobody met him. lle also,it seems, even in a time of war, found the walls of Jerusalemdestitute of guards : I omit the rest. Now, the doors of theholy house were seventy2 cubits high and twenty cubitsbroad; they were all plated over with gold, and almost ofsolid gold itself, and there were no fewer than twenty3 menrequired to shut them every day; nor was it lawful ever toleave them open, though it seems, this lamp-bearer of oursopened them easily, or thought he opened them, as he thoughthe had the ass's head in his hand. Whether, therefore, hereturned it to us again, or whether Apion took it and broughtit into the temple again, that Antiochus might find it, andafford a handle for a second fable of Apion's, is uncertain. 11. Apion also tells a false story, when he mentions anoath of ours, as if we "swore by God, the maker of the 1 Judea in the Greek, by a gross mistake of the transcribers. 2 Seven, in the Greek, by a like gross mistake of the transcribers. Seeof the War, B. v. eh. v. sect. 4. 3 Two hundred, in the Greek, contrary to the twenty in the Wak-, B. vii.cb. T. sect. 3. 36*