OCR Output AH. 161.] 455 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK XIII. Containing an Interval of Eighty-two Years. FROM THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS TO THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA, CHAP. I. OB THE SUCCESSION OF JONATHAN TO THE GOVERNMENT,AFTER THE DEATH OF HIS BROTHER JUDAS; AND OK THEWAR WHICH HE, TOGETHER WITH HIS BROTHER SIMON,WAGED AGAINST BACCHIDES. BY what means the nation of the Jewsrecovered their freedom, when theyhad been brought into slavery by the Mace­donians; and what struggles and conflictsJudas, the general of their army, underwenttill he was slain, as he was fighting for them;hath been related in the preceding book. Butafter he was dead, all the wicked, and thosethat transgressed the laws of their forefatherssprang up again in Judea; and grew uponthem, and distressed them on every side. Afamine also assisted their wickedness, andafflicted the country; till not a few, who, byreason of their want of necessaries, and be­cause they were not able to bear up againstthe miseries that both the famine, and theirenemies brought upon them, deserted theircountry, and went to the Macedonians. Andnow Bacchides gathered those Jews togetherwho had apostatized from their neighbours:and committed the care of the country tothem. Accordingly they caught the friends of Judas, and those of his party, and deliver­ed them up to Bacchides: who when he had,in the first place, tormented them at his plea­sure, he by that means at length killed them.And when this calamity of the Jews was be­come so great, as they never had experienceof the like since their return out of Babylon;those that remained of the companions ofJudas, seeing that the nation was ready to bedestroyed after a miserable manner, came tohis brother Jonathan, and desired that hewould imitate his brother, in that care whichhe took of his countrymen; for whose libertyin general he died also; and that he wouldnot permit the nation to be without a go­vernor, especially in those destructive cir­cumstances wherein it now was. And whenJonathan said that he was ready to die forthem, and was indeed esteemed no way infe­rior to his brother, he was appointed to bethe general of the Jewish army. When Bacchides heard this, and was afraidthat Jonathan might prove very troublesometo the king and the Macedonians,* as Judashad been before him, he sought how he mightslay him by treachery. But this intentionwas known to Jonathan, and to his brotherSimon; who took all their companions, and * Bacchides, as soon as he arrived in Judea, went afterJonathan; but, upon his approach, Jonathan left Simonhis brother with one part of the forces to defend the place,whilst himself, with the other part, took the field toharass the enemy abroad; in which capacities they bothacted so well, Jonathan, by cutting off several of theirparties, and now and then falling upon the outskirts oftheir army employed in the siege; and Simon, by makingfrequent sallies upon them, and burning the engines theyhad brought against the place; that Bacchides, 1 Macc.ix. 69—73. Joseph. Antiq. lib. 12. c. 1 and 2. growing weary of this undertaking, and not a little enraged at thosewho were the occasion of his return and disgrace, putseveral of them to death. This opportunity Jonathanlaid hold on, and therefore sent messengers to him, to de­sire an accommodation, which Bacchides readily came into,so that a peace was concluded. The prisoners whom hehad in his custody were all restored, and himself took anoath never to molest the Jews any more; which accord­ingly he fulfilled; for as soon as the peace was ratified onboth sides he went away, and never more returned intothe country. B.