OCR Output SILVER VESSELS. 52. WHEN DISHES WEKE MADE OF AN IMMODERATE SIZE; WHENTYMPANA WERE FIRST MADE. It was a little before this time that dishes were made, each con­taining 100 lbs. weight of silver, of which it appears there were morethan five hundred in Rome, and it seems that many persons wereproscribed on this very account, by the knavery of people wholonged for them. What a scandal does it bring upon our annals toascribe the civil war to such vices! But in our times we are stillbolder. In the reign of Claudius, one of his servants, Drusillus,surnamed Rotundus, who was his treasurer in the province ofNorthern Spain, had a dish of 500 lbs. weight, so that it wasnecessary to have a manufactory erected for the express purposeof making it; and there were eight others belonging to the sameset, amounting in the whole to 850 lbs. weight. We may ask,how many of his fellow servants would it require to carry thesedishes, and how many guests would they entertain? Corn. Neposinforms us, that before the victory of Sylla, there were only two sil­ver supper couches in all Rome. Fenestrella, who died in the lastyear of the Emperor Tiberius, says, that it was within his memorythat silver was first employed to ornament the stands,9 and alsothat tortoise-shell1 came into use. A little before his time theywere made of common wood, round, and solid, and not muchlarger than tables; when he was a boy they were made squareand more compact, and began to be covered with maple or citronwood; after a while silver was put on the corners and lines ofthem, and also along the joints. When he was a young manwhat had formerly been called platters and trenchers began to becalled plates and dishes.1 53. IMMODERATE QUANTITIES OF SILVER. And men were not only mad after the silver itself, but almoststill more so, after the manner of working it; and this indeed was 9 " Repositoria." 1 " Testudinea." In lib. ix. sec. 13, the author observes, "Testudinumputamina secare in laminas, lectosque et repositoria his vestire." • Tympana, and magides; staterae and lances, are the terms employed bythe author. We have no corresponding terms in our language, and it isperhaps impossible to discover to what forms of dishes they were applied bythe Romans. We meet indeed with one of the names in Varro; "Ma-gidam aut Langulam, alteram a magnitudine, alteram ab latitudine finx-erunt." De Ling. Lat. t. i. p. 34.