OCR Output CHAP. LI. 457 policy supplied the obligation of justice; and aftersomeacts of intolerant zeal, the Mahometan conquerors ofHindostan have spared the pagods of that devout andpopulous country. The disciples of Abraham, of Moses,and of Jesus, were solemnly invited to accept the moreperfect revelation of Mahomet; but if they prefer­red the payment of a moderate tribute, they were en­titled to the freedom of conscience and religious wor-Propaga- ship." In a field of battle, the forfeit lives of thetionof Ma-prisoners were redeemed by the profession of bometisui. Islam; the females were bound to embrace thereligion of their masters, and a race of sincere proselyteswas gradually multiplied by the education of the infantcaptives. But the millions of Asiatic and African con­verts, who swelled the native band of the faithful Arabs,must have been allured, rather than constrained, to de­clare their belief in one God and the apostle of God. Bythe repetition of a sentence and the loss of a foreskin,the subject or the slave, the captive or the criminal,arose in a moment the free and equal companion of thevictorious Moslems. Every sin was expiated, every en­gagement was dissolved: the vow of celibacy was su­perseded by the indulgence of nature; the active spi­rits who slept in the cloister were awakened by the trum­pet of the Saracens : and in the convulsion of the world,every member of a new society ascended to the naturallevel of his capacity and courage. The minds of themultitude were tempted by the invisible as well as tem­poral blessings of the Arabian prophet; and charity willhope, that many of his proselytes entertained a seriousconviction of the truth and sanctity of his revelation. In God, worship the sun, moon, or idols. 2. Atheists. Utrique, quamdiu princepsaliquis inter Mohammedanos superest, oppugnari debent donee religionem amplec-tantur, nee requies us concedenda est, nee pretium acceptandum pro obtinendaconscientiae libertate : (Reland, Dissertat. 10. de jure Militari Mohammedan, torn.3. p. 14.) a rigid theory! "The distinction between a proscribed and a tolerated sect, between the Harbiiand the people of the Book, the oelievers in some divine revelation, is correctly de­fined in the conversation of the caliph AI Mamun with the idolaters, or Sabaeans, ofCharra. Hottinger, Hist. Orient, p. 107, 108.