OCR Output 433 KIXUS. NIXUS. or 'E<r6pax of tlio LXX., Rawlinson, As. Journ.1850), (is in //iW, xx. 232; /W. Homeric, vi. 145;Virg. ^en- v. 127; Juven. x. 259, &c. Ii istherefore, perhaps, less remarkable, that though Ni­neveh had riu early in history ceased to be a city ofany importance, the tradition of its former existenceshould remain in its own country till a compara­tively recent period. Thus, as we have seen, Tacitusand Animianus allude to it, while coins exist (of theclass termed by numismatists Greek Imperial) struckuniler tiie Roman emperors Claudius, Trajan, Maxi­mums frnd Gordianus Pius, proving that, duringthat period, there was a Roman colony established inAssyria, bearing the name of Niniva ClaudioiHihs,and, in all probability, occupying its site. (Sestini,Miw.de Chaudoir, tab. ii. tig. 12, Clas. Central, p.159.) In later times the name is still extant.Thus, Ibn Alliir (quoting from Btladfteri, inthe annals of those year-) speaks of the forts ofNin/iwi to the cast, and of Mosul to the west, oftin- Tigris, in tlie campaigns of Abd-allah Ibn Mo'-ctomer, a. H. 1G (a. d. 037), and of Otbeh IbnFarkud, A. H. 20 (a. d. 641). (Rawlinson, As.Journ. 1850.) Again. Benjamin of Tndela, in tlictwelfth century, speaks of it as opposite to Mosul{Travels, ^ 91. ed. Asher, 1840) ; and Abulfarajnotices it in Ids Hist. Dynast (pp. 404—441) underthe name of Ninuc (cf. also his Chroniron, p. 404).Lastly, Assemani, in his account of the mission ofSalukah, the patriarch of the Chaldueans, to Rome,in A. i>. 1552, when describing Mosul, says of it,M a qua ex altera rip-ie parte abest Ninive bis nollepassibus" {Blhl Orient, i. p. 524). In the samework of Assemani are many notices of Nineveh, asa Christian bishoprick, first under the metropolitanof Mosul, and subsequently under the bishop ofAssyria and Adiabene (BiU. Orient, vol. ii. p. 459,vol.'iii. pp. 104, 209, 344, &c). We have already noticed under AssvniA the chiefpoints recorded in the Bible and in the classicalhistorians relative to the history of Nineveh, andhave stated that it is impossible entirely to reconcilethe various conflicting statements <>f ancient authors.It only remains to mention here, as briefly as pos­sible, the general results of the remarkable, dis­coveries which, within the last few years, havethrown a flood of light upon this most obscure partof aneient history, and have, at the same time,aftVded the most complete and satisfactory confirma­tion of those notices of Assyrian history which havebeen preserved in the Bible. The names of all theAssyrian kin^s mentioned in the Bible, with theexception, perhaps, of Shalmatieser, who, however,occurs under his name in Isaiah, Sargon, are nowclearly read upon the Assyrian records, besides agreat many others whose titles have not as yet beenidentified with those in the lists preserved by theGreek and Roman chronologists. ill. It is well known that in the neighbourhoodof Mosul travellers had long observed some remark­able mounds, resembling small hills; and that Mr,Rich had, thirty years ago, called attention to onecalled Koyunjik, in which fragments of sculpture andpottery had been frequently discovered. In the year1843, M. B.'tta. the French consul at Mosul, at thesuggestion of Mr. Layard, commenced Ins excavations,—first, with little success, at Koyunjik, and then,with much greater good fortune, in a mound calledhliorsabad, a few miles NE. of Mosul. To M.lJ'»;t:i*> success at Khorsabod the French owe allthe Assyrian monuments in the collection of the Louvre. In 1845, Mr. Layard begin to d\j rotethe still greater mound of .Ximrud, about 17 n.:US. of Mosul; and was so in rewarded by thesive and valuable collection now in the Britisi M.-st'um. These researches were continued by ilr.Layard during 1846 and [art of 1847. ar.j tpaduring 1850 and 1851 ; together with a fir m**satisfactory examination of tiie remains.it K'-yuxjitthan had been made by M. Botta. Some uu^rsites, too, in the nci.L;hbourho"d were partiillT ri-plored; but, though of undoubted As-yri.ui oi:^a,they yielded little compared with the greater roundiat yimrud, Khorsabad, and Koyunjik, It w<Akbe foreign to the object of this w.»rk to enter m>any details of the sculptured monuments wb:ch hi??been brought to light. A vast collection, bowmr,of inscriptions have been disinterred ouring tatsame excavations; and from these we have t«3enabled by the labours of Colonel Rawlinson andHineks to give names to many of the tocJruawhich have been explored, and to ree<.'iL»trurt u*history of Assyria and Babylonia r»n & touixiisamore secure than the fragment* of CteMi* «'itliistcry of Herodotus. It is also nere5ssry tostate that very extensive researches have t^imade during 1854 in Southern Babyk^a t»Messrs. Loft us and Taylor in mounds now ca^JWarka and Muqueyer; and that fa>ra the* illother excavations Colonel Rawlinson lias rectrtrl Igreat number of inscribed tablets, whieii bar* liiejhi:n materially in drawing up a pre* is of theetrL»lBabylonian and Assyrian histoiy. Muqutytr aidentifies as the sate of the celebrated "Lr "f t*Chaldces." From these various sources, Co.a"Kawlinson has concluded that the true Nu^tb arepresented by the mounds ophite to Mosul umprobably by that one which bears the local t»2*<the ftabi Tunas; that tliis city was built **s(the middle of the thirteenth century u. c; a:«i it*from it, the name of Nineveh was in alter tnatransferred to several other sites in the DeicLbcaihood. The groat work of Ximrttd (the seat <Mr. Layard's chief labours), which it was mumon the lirst extensive discoveries, to supp«the real Nineveh, is proved beyond question by U-flCol. Kawlinson and l>r. Hincks to have beenby the Assyrians Ctdah, or Calach. We olmdoubt but that this is the Calah of Gtlieah (x. itand the origin of the Cal.uhene of Strabo (r~ \529, xvi. p. 735), and of the Calacine of(vi. 1. § 2). From the inscriptions, it may 1gathered that it was founded about the BkJdift'tiie twelfth century n.c*. The great ruin of A*>*sabdd (the scene of the French excavatsooa),has also been thought by some to Imve formed piof Nineveh, Colonel Rawlinson has ascertainedhave been built by the Sargon of Isaiah (ix. 11the Shalmaneser of 2 Kings, xvii. 3,—abou: tlyear B. c. 720; and he has shown from Yaeut'hit retained the name of Sorghum down to the tilof the Muhammedan conquest. A**y**7»£. *principal ruin op]>osite to Mosul, and aujwcucf XiXabi Yunas} we know from tiie inscriptions to mbeen constructed by Sennacherib, the sun ed Shiinaneser, about b. C TOO. The whole of th» 4trict has been surveyed with great can? and mu>vr.ess by Capt. Jones, within the last few yeiirs-; ihis account, with three elaborate majo, tai Kipublished in the Journal of the Asiatic1855. From this we learn that the wholeccooHof Koyunjik and the Nabi Yunas (which tf o