OCR Output 794 ROMA. The funeral of Cnesar was also that of the Repuolic.After his death and apotheosis, first an Altaic andthen an ABDBfl Dm JuUA were erected to iiira, onthe spot where hit) body had been burnt (flupjiv tikci CVTtp TT}S TTVpUS Xa'Pt(P 'tbpVffa.fJ.fVOl, DlOIl CaSS. xllV. 51; Kat r}pt£ov ui ec re tt; ayopa. nut 4v toV^4v $ ^KfKavro TTpoKaTfGdWovro, Id. xlvti. 18;"Aedem Divi Juli—feci," Man. Ancyr.) We also rindmention of a column of Nuniidian marble nearly120 feet high, erected to him on the forum by thepeople, with this inscription: M Parenti Patriae,"(Suet. Com. 88.) This, however, seems to have beenthe same monument sometimes called tira; forSuetonius goes on to say that the people continuedfor a long while to offer sacrifice and make vows atit (M A pad eandem longo tempore sacrificare, votasuscipere, cont rovers ias quasdani interpoito perC acsa rem jureju raudo distrahere perseveravit"). Thisara or columna was afterwards overthrown byDolabella (Cie. Phil. i. 2, ad A tt. xiv. 15). We havebefore seen that Caesar's body was burnt on theforum, l>efore the Regia and the new rostra which liehad erected, and we must therefore conclude thatthis wis the spot where the altar was set up by thepeople, and subsequently the temple by Augustus,lint tliis has been the subject of a warm controversy,liunsen placed the temple on the Velian ridge, sothat its trout adjoined the Sacra Via where it crossesthe eastern boundary of the forum, whilst liecker(/fawlb. p. 330) placed it on the forum itself, so thatits back adjoined the same road. The authoritiesare certainly in favour of the latter view; and thedifficulties raised by Urlichs (Hum. Top. p. 21, seq.),who came to the rescue of Bonsen's theory, arisefrom the mistake shared alike by all the disputants,that this end of the forum was the coinitium.Urlichs might have seen that this was not so from apassage he himself quotes (p. 22) from the FastiA mikrnini, X V. Km. Sept., showing that the templestood on the forum ("DivoJulioad Forum"). lie seeks,however, to get rid of that passage by an unfortunateappeal to the SekoL Cntq. ad Hot. &. i. 6.35,in orderto show that after the time of Caesar there was nolonger any distinction made between the forum andeomitium, since the puteal is there named as beingon the forum, instead of on the eomitium as Urlichsthinks it should be. But this is only trying tosupport one error by another, since we have alreadyshown that the puteal really was on the forum andnot on the eomitium. We need not therefore meddlewith this controversy, which concerns only thosewho have taken a wrong view of the eomitium. We will, however, remark that the passage ad­duced by liecker in his Anttcort, p. 41, from theScholiast on Persius (iv. 49), where the puteal ismentioned as '* in porticu Julia ad Fabianum ar-cum,'' confirms the sites of these places: from whichpassage we also learn that the temple had a portico.Vitruvius says (hi. 3) that the temple, which musthave been a small one, was of the order calledptripteros pyt-ru^sti/los, that is, having columns allround it, at a distance of one diameter and a half ofa column from one another. It must have beenraised on a lofty base or substruction, with its fronttowards the Capitol, as wc see from the followinglines of Ovid (Met. XT. 841):— "ut semper Capitolia nostra forumquc Divus ab excels* propectet Julius aedc." The same circumstance, as well as its close prox­imity to the temple of Castor, are indicated in the following verses of the same poet (Ex fW 1 285): — "Fratribus assimtlis, quos proxima tra$is tenentes Divus ab excels* Julius aede ridel" This substruction, or *fnr*ii. as it it caW 1Dion, served, as we have beta, fur a third iand, after the battle of Actiom. was * -r-4 1Augustus with the beaks of the captured Iships, from which time it was called ttoenu J(Djou Cass. li. 19.) Such were the alterations made by Juset (in the foruin, and by Augustus inadoptive father. The latter also m*>additions. He erected at the head of thefider the temple of Saturn, the Miuaricm .which we hare before had occa&iuo U(Dion Cass. liv. 8; Suet. Otito, 6; TaiIt was in shape like a common milet<«*. Ma to have been of bronze gilt It* u.xr is sat 1 clear, as the milestones along: the rainoted the distances from the gates. Bat irecollect that Augustus included a cremt inew streets in his Regions, it seems ant ithat it was intended as a measure awithin the city; and indeed we findmade the starting point in the surreyunder Vespasian. (Plin. ui. 9.) Hasbe regarded, as Plutarch says (6*aVcommon centre at which all the reads efminated. The Umbilici's Romakconfounds with it (p. 344) appears to 1different thing, as the Xotitia mentions 1separately under Regio viiL The pinexcavated near the arch of Severn* milonged to this umbilicus, or to suae etament, not to the miliarium. which appearsXotitia and Curiosnm to have retainedperiod its original position near the tenapMat the head of the forum. We also read of a Forwix Arormirlarch erected on the forum in bonoor sf .but its position is nowhere accurately defiaatllfrom some Scholia on Virgfl (Jem.edited by Mai, it is supposed tothe temple of J"note.) fesm