OCR Output hnri A Survey of the History. though soon after he lost his country, through the malice ofhis personal enemies and the enemies of his country in con­junction with them, yet the statesmen and patriots left behindpursued his plan of naval power: And the steps of its pro­gress and advancement are minutely traced out by our His­torian. Themistocles had made all safe and secure at home.The Lorig-walls were built; the Piroeus, a spacious harbour,opened and fortified, a magazine for traffic, and an arsenalfor war. Aristides, as true a patriot as ever lived, made allsecure abroad. Through his honest management, all Greecesubmitted to an annual tax, for the guard of their commonliberty against future invasions; and the leaders at sea weremade collectors and treasurers of this naval fund. The isleof Delos was the place, at first, of lodging this fund; but itwas soon after removed to Athens ;—a shrewd political step,yet capable however of an ample if not full justification.The war is briskly carried on against the Persian monarch ;the isles and seas are cleared of the common enemy; thecities on the coast are regained or conquered. Cimon alsoperforms his part nobly; he earns two victories the same day,by sea and land, on the coast of Ionia, from the Persians.He compleated a negotiation with the petty maritime States,confederate with Athens, who were tired of incessant war­fare, for accepting sums of money instead of ships and per­sonal attendance. By this means the shipping of thoseStates soon mouldered away, and their money was by theirown agreement sent thither, to increase and strengthen themaritime power of Athens. In spite of all the opposition,which the Corinthians and Boeotians gave them at home,whose rancour to them was never to be appeased, in thecourse of no large number of years, they had established avery extensive and formidable empire indeed. The isles andcoasts of the iEgtan sea were mostly their own. The bayof Sarone was intirely in their own jurisdiction: And, bybeing masters of Naupactus, they considerably awed the