OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL equestrian order, till the homage of flattery was insensibly con­verted into an annual and solemn protestation ©f fidelity.Consular snd Although Auguctus considered a military force, as the firmest tribunician , _ _ . . powers. foundation, he wuely rejected it, as a very odious instrument ofgovernment. It was more agreeable to his temper, as well as to his■policy, to reign under the -venerable names of ancient magistracy,and artfully to eoi4ect, 4n his own per son, *11 the scattered rays of-civil jurisdiction. With thi« view lie permitted the senate to con­fer upon him, for his life, the powers of the consular1' and lri~brunitian office* **, which were, in the fame manner, continued toall his succeffbrs. The consuls had succeeded to the kings of Rome,and represented the dignity of the state. They superintended theceremonies of religion, levied and commanded the legions, gaveaudience to foreign ambassadors, and presided in the assemblieshoth of the senate and people. The general control of the financeswas intrusted to their care, and though they seldom had leisure toadminister justice in person, they were considered as the supremeguardians of law, equity, and the public peace. Such was theirordinary jurisdiction; but whenever the senate empowered the firstmagistrate to consult the safety of the commonwealth, he was raisedby that 4egree above the laws, and exercised, in the defence ofliberty, a temporary despotism". The character of the tribuneswas, in every respect, different from that of the consuls. Theappearance of the former was modest and humble; but their person3were sacred and inviolable; Their force was suited rather for op­position than for action*. They were instituted to defend theoppressed, to pardon offences, to arraign the enemies of the people,and when they judged it necessary, to Hop, by a single word, thewhole machine of government. As long as the republic sub­sisted, the dangerous influence, which either the consul or thetribune might derive from their respective jurisdiction, was dir-i mkulhed