OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. S7 and mortal strokes: his faithful guards imitated his valour, and defended his per­son; and the Goths, after the loss of a thousand men, fled before the arms of ahero. They were rashly pursued to their camp; and the Romans, oppressed bymultitudes, made a gradual, and at length a precipitate retreat to the gates of thecity; the gates were shut against the fugitives; and the public terror was increasedby the report that Belisarius was slain. His countenance was indeed disfiguredby sweat, dust, and blood; his voice was hoarse, his strength was almost exhausted,but his unconquerable spirit still remained; he imparted that spirit to his despond­ing companions; and their last desperate charge was felt by the flying barbarians;as if a new army, vigorous and entire, had been poured from the city. The Fla-minian gate was thrown open to a real triumph; but it was not before Belisariushad visited every post, and provided for the public safety, that he could be per­suaded by his wife and friends, to taste the needful refreshments of food and sleep.In the more improved state of the art of war, a general is seldom required, oreven permitted, to display the personal prowess of a soldier; and the example ofBelisarius may be added to the rare examples of Henry IV. of Pyrrhus and ofAlexander. After this first and unsuccessful trial of their enemies, the whole army of theGoths passed the Tiber, and formed the siege of the city, which continued abovea year, till their final departure. Whatever fancy may conceive, the severe com­pass of the geographer defines the circumference of Rome within a line of twelvemiles and three hundred and forty-five paces; and that circumference, except inthe Vatican, has invariably been the same from the triumph of Aurelian to thepeaceful but obscure reign of the modern popes.(l) But in the day of her great­ness, the space within her walls was crowded with habitations and inhabitants;and the populous suburbs, that stretched along the public roads, were darted likeso many rays from one common centre. Adversity swept away these extraneousornaments, and left naked and desolate a considerable part even of the seven hills.Yet Rome, in its present state, could send into the field above thirty thousandmales, of a military age;(2) and, notwithstanding the want of discipline and ex­ercise, the far greater part inured to the hardships of poverty, might be capableof bearing arms for the defence of their country and religion. The prudence ofBelisarius did not neglect this important resource. His soldiers were relieved bythe zeal and diligence of the people, who watched while they slept, and labouredw.hile they reposed; he accepted the voluntary service of the bravest and most in­digent of the Roman youth; and the companies of townsmen sometimes represent­ed, in a vacant post, the presence of the troops which had been drawn away tomore essential duties. But his just confidence was placed in the veterans who had4fought under his banner in the Persian and African wars; and although that gallantband was reduced to five thousand men, he undertook, with such contemptiblenumbers, to defend a circle of twelve miles, against an army of one hundred andfifty thousand barbarians. In the walls of Rome, which Belisarius constructed orrestored, the materials of ancient architecture may be discerned;(3) and the■whole fortification was completed, except in a chasm still extant between thePincian and Flaminian gates, which the prejudices of the Goths and Romans leftunder the effectual guard of St. Peter the apostle. (4) The battlements or bas­tions were shaped in sharp angles; a ditch, broad and deep, protected the foot ofthe rampart: and archers on the rampart were assisted by military engines—thebalista, a powerful cross-bow, which darted short but massy arrows; the onagri,.or wild asses, which, on the principle of a sling, threw stones and bullets of anenormous size.(5) A chain was drawn across the Tiber; the arches of the aque- (1) M. d'Anville has given in the MemoirPS of the Academy for the year 1750, (torn. xxx. p. 198—236.) a planof Rome on ft smaller scale, but far more accurate than that which he had delineated in 1738 for Rolling his­tory. Experience had improved his knowledge: and instead of Rossi's topography, he used t he new and ex­cellent map of Nolli. Pliny's old measure of thirteen must be reduced to eighteen miles. It is easier to altera text, than to remove hills or buildings. (2) In the year 1709, Labat (Voyages en Italie, torn. iii. p. 218.) reckoned one hundred and thirty-eight thou­sand five hundred and sixty-eight Christian souls, besides eight or ten thousand Jews—without souls! In theyear 1763, the numbers exceeded one hundred and sixty thousand. (3) The accurate eye of Nardini (Uoma Antica, lib. i. c. 8. p. 31.) could distinguish the turaultuarie opera diBeiisario. (4) The fissure and leaning in the tipper part of the wail, which Frocopius observed, (Goth. lib. i. c. IS.) is•visible to the present hour. (Donat. Roma Vetus, lib. i. c. 17. p. 53, 54.) (5) Lijtoius (Opp. torn. iii. Poliorcet. lib. iii.) was ignorant of this clear and conspicuous passage of Procopius.(Goth. lib. i. c. 21.) The engine was named owevpo?, the wild ass, a calcitrando. (Hen. Steph. Tbesaur. Lin­gua; Gnec torn. ii. p. 1340,1341. torn. iii. p. 877.) I have seen an ingenious model, contrived and execute;! byGeneral Melville, which imitates or surpasses tha art of amiquitv. Vol. III. 8