OCR Output 49* THE HISTORY B OvO K the field, and their being routed by an eneifty re-i _.J_ _f markable for cowardice and running away. OnY.R. 361. which the whole army cried out together, that theyB.C. 391. deferved to hear fuch reproaches, and that they ac­knowledged the fhamefulnefs of their behaviour;but that they were at the fame time determined tomake amends for it, and that the enemy's joy on theoccafion mould be but of fhort duration. They re-quefted earneftly that he would lead them thence di­rectly to the camp of the enemy, which lay in theplain within their view, offering to fubmit to anypunifhment if they did not take it before night. Af­ter commending their refolution, he ordered themto refrefh themfelves, and to be in readinefs at thefourth watch: the enemy on the other fide, withde-fign to prevent the Romans from flying from thehill by night through the road which led to Verrugo,were there ready to receive them, and the battle be­gan before day. However the moon was up throughthe" whole night, and the fight was managed with aslittle confufion as it could have been by day. Butthe fhout reaching Verrugo, where it was imaginedthat the Roman camp had been attacked, the troopswere feized with fuch terror, that in fpite, of the in-treaties of ./Emilius, and all his endeavours to detainthem, they fled to Tufculum in the utmoft diforder.From thence a report was carried to Rome, thatPoftumius and his army were cut to pieces. How­ever, as foon as day-light had removed the dangerof falling into ambufcades, in cafe of a hafty purfuit,riding through the ranks, and demanding the per­formance of their promifes, he infufed into the menfuch a degree of ardour, that the ^Equans could nolonger withftand their efforts, but betook themfelvesto flight, when a Daughter of them enfued (as in acafe where anger was more concerned than courage)that ended in the entire deftruction of their army;and the afflicting news from Tufculum which hadcaufed a great, though groundlefs, alarm in the city, were.