OCR Output 310 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. chres. The ricli marbles of a patrician are dashed onhis own head: a whole people is buried under the ruinsof public and private edifices, and the conflagration iskindled and propagated by the innumerable fires whichare necessary for the subsistence and manufactures ofa great city. Instead of the mutual sympathy whichmight comfort and assist the distressed, they dreadfullyexperience the Vices and passions which are releasedfrom the fear of punishment: the tottering houses' arepillaged by intrepid avarice; revenge embraces the mo­ment, and selects the victim; and the earth often swal­lows the assassin, or the ravisher, in the consummationof their crimes. Superstition involves the present dan­ger with invisible terrors ; and if the image of death maysometimes be subservient to the virtue or repentance ofindividuals, an affrighted people is more forcibly movedto expect the end of the world, or to deprecate with ser­vile homage the wrath of an avenging Deity..^*s»e— III. ^Ethiopia and Egypt have been stigmatized inand natare, every age, as the original source and seminary of the* plagae.* In a damp, hot, stagnating air, this Africanfever is generated from the putrefaction of animal sub­stances, and especially from the swarms of locusts, notless destructive to mankind in their death than in theirlives. The fatal disease which depopulated the earth inthe time of Justinian and his successors,' first appeared inthe neighbourhood of Pelusium, between the Sefbonianbog and the eastern channel of the Nile. From thence,tracing as it were a double path, it spread to the east,over Syria, Persia, and the Indies, and penetrated to thewest, along the coast of Africa, and over the continentof Europe. In the spring of the second year, Constan- • I have read with pleasure Mead's short, bat elegant treatise, concerning Pesti­lential Disorders, the eighth edition, London, 1722. • The great plagne which raged in 542, and the following years, (Pagi, Critica,torn. 2. p. 518.) must be traced in Procopius, (Persic, lib. 2. c. 22, 23.) Agalhias,(lib. 5. p. 153, 154.) Evagrius, (lib. 4. c. 29.) Paul Diaconus, (lib. 2. c. 4. p. 776,777.) Gregory of Tours, (torn. 2. lib. 4. c. 5. p. 205.) who styles it Lues Inguinaria,.and the Chronicles of Victox Tunnunensis, (p. 9. in Thesaar. Temporum,) of Marcel-linus, (p. 54.) and of Theophanes. (p. 153.)