OCR Output SELEUCEIA. SELEUCEIA. 933 nt lituated co the sea between Cilicia anil I • • 'rover against a large mountain called Cory-mm, the bate of which was washed on it* W.t bi the tea, towards the E. it dominated the•Mi of Antioch and Seleucis. Seleucia lay on S. of this mountain, separated from it by a deepI r«s«d Taller. The city extended to the seacars broken ground, but was surrounded for theit {art by precipitous and abrupt rocks. On thei tnranli the sea lay the factory (to! f>xopt7a) nndart, uo the level ground, strongly fortified. The » bolluw (((ret) of the city was likewise strongly.tflwith fine walls,and temples,and buildings, it <-« approach on the sea side, by an artifn-ial roadteps »\.wi«»Tw), distributed into frequent andBsoouilopes(cuttingH?—•yaAf/tturi) and curveslitis?—€waim$tatrt). TheemAoucAureof theOron-'i» not far distant—40 stadia, according toStraboi. p. 730). It was built by Seleucus Nicatori a c 180), and was of great importance, in attry view, during the wars between the Seleucidao tbt Ptolemies. It was taken by Ptolemyretus on his expedition into Syria, and held byEgyptian garrison until the time of Antiochuslimt, who, at the instigation of Apollophanes,c^urixn. resolved to recover it from Ptolemy■eator (rir. B. c. 220), in order to remove theu of an Egyptian garrison in the heart ofmod to obviate the danger which it threatened» operations in Coele-Syria, being, aa it was, axad city, and well nigh, so to speak, the proper i of the Syrian power. Having sent the fleetar it, under the admiral Diognetus, he himselflad with his army frum Apaineia, and encamped the Hippodrome, 5 stadia from the city.*r ia vain attempted to win it by bribery, hesi his force* into thru parts, of which one under ii made the assault near the gate of Antioch,=»1 under Hermogenes near the temple of thetari, the third under Ardys and Diognetus by>mai and suburb, which was first carried, where-the garrison capitulated (l'olyb. v. 58—60). ■ afterwards a place of arms i n t he furl her prose-e of the war against Ptolemy (66). The MountaWum of Pulybius ia the Pieria of Ptolemy*."»>.», from which the town derived its distin­ct appellation. Strabo mentions, from Posi-*, that a kind of asphaltic soil was quarried insate, which, when spread over the roots of theacted as a preservative against blight (vii. p. He calls it the first city of the Syrians, from•. »nd states its distance from Soli, in a straightI, a Kola lea* than 1000 stadia (xiv. p. 676). ■ <©e of the four cities of the Tetrapolis, whichrrnonym for the district of Seleucis, the othersAntioch, Apaineia, and 1-aodiceia, which wereinter cities, being all founded by Seleucus and called by the names respectively of him-u i.tber, his wife, and his mother-in-law; thatt his father's name being the largest, that[ his own, the strongest (Strab. xvi. p. 749.)•furies attending its foundation are mentionedbrt Malalas (Ckronographia, lib. viii. p. 254).ast the port of Antioch, and there it was thatml tad Bsmabavs embarked for Cyprus, onlit mission to Asia Minor (Acts, xiii. 4), ther\ trver having been navigable even as farRnch for any but Teasel* of light draught,calls it "Seleucia libera Pieria," and describe*striated on a promontory (v. 21) clxxv. M. P.I trjui Zeugma on the Euphrates (12). He de sign*tea the Corypbaeum of Polybius, the Pieria ofStrabo, Mount Casius, a name also extended by Straboto the mountains about Seleucia, where he speaks ofthe Antiocheans celebrating a feast to Triptolemus asa demigod, in Mount Cassius around Seleucia (xvi.p. 750). The ruins of the site have been fully ex­plored and described in modern times, first byPococke (Observations on Syria, chap. xxii. p. 182,&c), who identified many points noticed by Polybius,and subsequently by Col. Chesney (Journal of theR. Geog. Society, vol. viii. p. 228, &c). Themountain range noticed by Polybius is now calledJcbtl Musa; and the hill on which the city stoodappears to be the "low mountain, called Bin-Kiltstli,"or the 1000 churches. Part of the site of the townwas occupied, according to Pococke, by the village ofKej)se, situated about a mile from the sea. Themasonry of the once magnificent port of Selencia isstill in so good a state that it merely requires triflingrepairs in some places, and to be cleaned out; a pro­ject contemplated, but not executed, by one Ali Pasha,when governor of Aleppo. The plan of the port,with its walls and basins, its piers, floodgates, anddefences, can be distinctly traced. The walls of thesuburb, with it* agora, the double line of defence ofthe inner city, comprehending in their circumfe­rence about 4 miles, which is filled with ruins ofhouses; its castellated citadel on the summit of thehill, the gate of Antioch on the SE. of the site,with its pilasters and towers, near which is a doublerow of marble columns; large remains of twotemples, one of which was of the Corinthian order;the amphitheatre, near which Antiochus encamped,before his assault upon the city, with twenty-fourtiers of benches still to be traced; the numerous rockyexcavations of the necropolis, with the sarcophagi,always of good workmanship, now broken andscattered about in all directions, all attest the ancientimportance of the city, and the fidelity of the his­torian who has described it. Most remarkable ofall in this view is the important engineering work,to which Polybius alludes as the only communica­tion between the city and sea, fully described byCol. Chesney, as the most striking of the interestingremains of Seleucia. It is a very extensive excava­tion, cut through the solid ruck from the NE.extremity of the town almost to the sea, part ofwhich is a deep hollow way, and the remainderregular tunnels, between 20 and 30 feet wide, andas many high, executed with great skill and con­siderable labour. From its eastern to its westernextremity is a total length of 1088 yards, thegreater part of which is traversed by an aqueductcarried along the face of the rock, considerably abovethe level of the road. Its termination is rough andvery imperfect, about 30 feet above the level of thesea ; and while the bottom of the rest of the excava­tion is tolerably regular, in this portion it is impededby large masses of rock lying across it at intervals:which would imply either that it was never com­pleted, or that it was finished in this part withmasonry, which may have been earned off forbuilding purposes. It is, perhaps, in this part thatthe stairs mentioned by Polybius mny have beensituated, in order to form a communication with thesea. There call be no doubt whatever that this ex­cavation is the passage mentioned by him a* the solecommunication between the city and the sea ; andit is strange that any question should have arisenconcerning its design. A rou^h plan of the site Ugivcu by Pococke (p. 183); but a much more