OCR Output .WARS OF THE JEWS. . ' ' Book L nay, on the contrary, they pretended to quarrel one with anotherwhen the king was within hearing. The like dissimulationdid Antipater make use of, and when matters were public, heopposed Pheroras; but still they had private cabals, andmsrrymeetings in the night-time ; nor did the observation of othersdo any more than confirm their mutual agreement. However,Salome knew every thing they did, and told every thing toHerod. 2. But he was inflamed with anger at them, and chiefly atPheroras's wife; for Salome had principally accused her. Sohe got an assembly of his friends and kindred together, and thereaccused this woman of many things, and particularly of the af足fronts she had offered his daughters; and that she had suppliedthe Pharisees with money, by way of rewards for what they haddone against him, and had procured his brother to become hisenemy, by giving him love potions. At length he turned hisspeech to Pheroras, and told him, That " he would give him". his choice of these two things, whether he would keep in with"his brother, or with his wife?" And when Pheroras said,that he would * die rather than forsake his wife, Herod notknowing what to do farther in that matter, turned his speechto Antipater, and charged him to have no intercourse either witkPheroras's wife, or with Pheroras himself, or with any one be足longing to her. Now, though Antipater did not transgress thathis injunction publicly, yet did he in secret come to their night-meeting j and because he was afraid that Salome observed whathe did, he procured, by the means of his Italian friends, that hemight go and live at Rome: for when they wrote that it wasproper for Antipater to be sent to Caesar for some time, Herodmade no delay,but sent him, and that with a splendid attendance,and a great deal of money, and gave him his testament to carrywith him, wherein Antipater had the kingdom bequeathed tohim, and wherein Herod was named for Antipater's successor,that Herod, I mean, who was the son of Mariamne, the high-priest's daughter. 3. Sylleus also, the Arabian, sailed to Rome, without anyregard to Caesar's injunctions, and this in order to oppose Anti足pater 11 This strange obstinacy of Pheroras in retaining his wife, who was one of alow family, and refusing to marry one nearly related to Herod, though he so ear足nestly desired it, as also that wife's admission to the counsels of the other greatcotrt hdies, together with Herod's own importunity as to Pheroras's divorce andother marriage, all so remarkable here, or in the Antiquities, B. XVII. ch. ii. sect.4. Vol. III. and ch. iii. sect. 3. cannot be well accounted for, but on the supposalthat Pheroras believed, and Herod suspected, that the Pharisees prediction, as ifthe crown of Judea should be translated from Herod to Pheroras's posterity, andthat most probably to Pheroras's posterity by this his wife, also would prove true.See Anticj. B. XVII. ch. ii. secc, 4. and ch' iii. sect. I. Vol. III.