OCR Output LACHISH. 107 LACIPPO. tania auae tnhjecta PyrenaeU montibtu est, Lit.).Their "pathless forests" {tlevia et rileutru gens,Liv.) lay S. of the Cerkktani, W. of the Indi­cates, and X. of the Lai.etani. (It is impossibletoaruid the suspicion that these names are identical,especially as we have the intermediate fonn Lae-aetaxi, and that Lacetania is only the N. part ofLaletatiia. Moreover, the name is confounded withtLe Jacetasi in the MSS. of Caes. B. C. i. 60.)Only one town is mentioned as belonging to them,and that without a name, but simply as havingbeen taken by M. Cato. (Plut. Cat. Maj. 11 ; Liv.xii. 23, 26, 60, et seq., xxviii. 24, 26, et seq.,niiiu 34, xxxiv. 20; Dion Cass. xlv. 10; Martial,L 49. 22.) [P. S.] LACHISH (Aoxi'j, LXX.; Aax«*. Aax«i«ro,Joseph.), a city to the south of the tribe of Judah(Jotk. xv. 39), the capital of one of the petty kingsor sheikhs of the Canaanites (x. 3). It was takenand destroyed by Joshua (iv. 31—33), and is joinedwith Adoraim and Azekali (2 Chron. xi. 9) as oneof the cities built, or rather fortified, by Behoboam.It was besieged by Sennacherib on bis invasion ofJudaea, B. c. 713. (2 King; xviii. 14,17, xix. 8.)It is placed by Eusebius and St Jerome (Onomast.t. *.) seven miles south of Eleulheropolis, in Daranaor " the valley." (Josh, xv. 39.) But for this itmight hare been identified with Um Litis, on theleft of the road between Gaza and Hebron, aboutfire boors from the former, where is an ancient site'* sow covered confusedly with heaps of small roundstones, among wbich are seen two or three fragmentsof marble columns." (Robinson, BibL lies. vol. ii.p. 388.) The objections to the identification are not,perhaps, so great as is represented: the title Um, equi­valent to metropolis, would seem to mark it as aplace of importance; and there is no other vestige ofa town in those ports that can be referred to Lachish.It is considerably south of west from Beit Jebrm(Eleotheropolis), which is near enough to satisfy thedescription of Eusebius, who is not remarkable forprecUe accuracy in his bearings, nor, indeed, in hisdistances, except in the parts with which be wasfamiliar, and on the more frequented thoroughfares.So argument can be drawn from its juxtapositionwith Adoraim and Azekah, in 2 Chron. xi. 9, as itmight be near enough to group with them in a list<i names which, it is evident, does not pretend togeographical precision. [G. W.] LACIACA or LACIACUM (in the Peut. Tableit U railed Laciacis), a town in the north-west ofSoricam {It Ant. pp. 235, 258). The name seemsto be connected with "lacus," and thus to point tothe lake district in upper Austria; hence some haveidentified the place with Seewaichen, or St. Georgenon the Attertee. But Muchar (jioricum, p. 267)U probably right in identifying it with Franken-mait [L. S.] LA'CIBI (Plin. iii. I. s. 3; A«uti«!, Ptol. ii. 4.5 11), a tributary town of Hispania Baetica, whichI'iiny assigns to the conventus of Gades, while Pto-lemy places it among the cities of the Turduli, inin the neighbourhood of Hispalis. [ P. S.] LACIBITRGIUM (tuutiSovpyior'), aGerman townra the south coast of the Baltic, between the riversClialasuB, and Suevus or Sucbus. It is mentionedonly by Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 27). and it is certain thattu site must be looked for to the west of Warnemunde,bat the precise spot cannot be ascertained, whence«ne have identified it with Wismar, others withftstttbury, and others again with Lauenburg. [L.S.] LACIDAE. [Attica, p. 326, a.] LACI'NIA. [Iapydia.] LACl'NIUM (to AokIciov txpov: Capo delleColonne"), a promontory on the E. coast of theBruttian peninsula, about 6 miles S. of Crotona.It formed the southern limit of the gulf of Ta-rentum, as the Iapygian promontory did the northernone: the distance between the two is stated byStrata, on the authority of Polybins, at 700 stadia,while Pliny apparently (for the passage in itspresent state is obviously corrupt) reckons it at75 Roman miles, or 600 stadia; both of whichestimates are a fair approximation to the truth, thereal interval being 65 geog. miles, or 650 stadia.(Strab. vi. p. 261 ; Plin. iii. 11. s. 15; Jlel. ii. 4.§ 8.) The Lacinian promontory is a bold androcky headland, forming the termination of one ofthe offshoots or branches of the great range of theApennines (Lucan. ii. 434; Plin. iii. 5. s. 6): itwas crowned in ancient times by the celebratedtemple of the Lacinian Juno, the ruins of which,surviving through the middle ages, have given tothe promontory its modern appellation of Capo delleColonne. It is also known by that of Capo Nau,a name evidently derived from the Greek No<ir, atemple; and which seems to date from an earlyperiod, as the promontory is already designated inthe Maritime Itinerary (p. 490) by the name ofNaus. That Itinerary reckons it 100 stadia fromthence to Crotona: Strabo gives the same distanceas 150 stadia; but both are grcatlv overrated.Livy correctly says that the temple (which stood atthe extreme point of the promontory) was onlyabout 6 miles from the city. (Liv. xxiv. 3.) Forthe history and description of this famous temple,see Ckotona. Pliny tells ns (iii. 10. 8. 15) that opposite to theLacinian promontory, at a distance of 10 milesfrom the land, was an island called Dioscoron (theisland of the Dioscuri), and another called theisland of Calypso, supposed to be the Ogygia ofHomer. Scylax also mentions the island of Calypsoimmediately after the Lacinian promontory (§ 13,p. 5). But there is at the present day no island atall that will answer to cither of those mentioned byPliny: there is, in fact, no islet, however small, offthe Lacinian cape, and hence modern writers havebeen reduced to seek for the abode of Calypso in asmall and barren rock, close to the shore, near CapoRizzuto, about 12 miles S. of Lacinium. Swinburne,who visited it, remarks how little it correspondedwith the idea of the Homeric Ogygia: but it isdifficult to believe that so trifling a rock (which isnot even marked on Zannoni's elaborate map) couldhave been that meant by Scylax and Pliny* Thestatement of the latter concerning the island whichhe calls Dioscoron is still more precise, and stillmore difficult to account for. On the other hand,he adds the names of three others, Tiris, Eranusa,and Meloessa, which he introduces somewhat vaguely,as if he were himself not clear of their position.Their names were probably taken from some poetnow lost to us. [E. H. B.] LACIPEA. [LusiTAMA.] LACIPPO (Aoximra, Ptol. ii. 4. § 11; Lacii-o,coin ap. Sestini, Med. Jsp. p. 57 ; Mionnet, Suppl. * The different positions that have been assignedto the island of Calypso, and the degree of pro­bability of their claims, will be discussed ucder thearticle Ogtcia.