OCR Output 306 [book vni ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. chres of his forefathers. He left behind himtwenty-two sons, and sixteen daughters; andhe had also those children by fourteen wives;and Asa his son succeeded in his kingdom;and the young man's mother was Michaiah.Under his reign the country of the Israelitesenjoyed peace for ten years. But Jeroboam, the king of the ten tribes,died when he had reigned twenty-two years.*His son Nadab succeeded him in the secondyear of the reign of Asa; and governed twoyears, and resembled his father in impiety andwickedness. In these two years he made anexpedition against Gibbethon, a city of thePhilistines, and continued the siege in orderto take it; but he was conspired against whilehe was there by a friend of his, whose namewas Baasha, the son of Ahijah, and was slain.Baasha took the kingdom after the other'sdeath, and destroyed the whole house of Je­roboam. It also came to pass, according asGod had foretold, that some of Jeroboam'skindred that died in the city were torn topieces and devoured by dogs, and that othersof them that died in the field were torn anddevoured by the fowls. So the house of Je­roboam suffered the just punishment of hisimpiety, and of his wicked actions. CHAP. XII. OF THE AFFAIRS OF ASA, KINO OF JERUSALEM; THE DE­STRUCTION OF THE HOUSE OF BAASHA, AND THE CON­DUCT OF THE SUCCESSORS ON THE THRONE OF ISRAEL. NOW Asa, the king of Jerusalem, was anexcellent character, and had a regardto God; and neither did nor designed anything but what was consistent^with the laws.He made a reformation of his kingdom, andcut off whatsoever was wicked therein, and purified it from every impurity. Now he hadan army of chosen men that were armed withtargets and spears; out of the tribe of Judahthree hundred thousand; and out of the tribeof Benjamin that bare shields and drew bows,two hundred and fifty thousand. But whenhe had reigned ten years, Zerah,t king ofEthiopia,J made an expedition against him,||with a great army, of nine hundred thousandfootmen, one hundred thousand horsemen,and three hundred chariots: and came as faras Mareshah,§ a city that belonged to thetribe of Judah. Now when Zerah had passedso far with his own army, Asa met him, andput his army in array over against him, in avalley called Zepathan, not far from the city.And when he saw the multitude of the Ethio­pians, he cried out, and besought God togive them the victory, and that he might killmany thousands of the enemy. "For," saidhe, "I depend on nothing else but that as­sistance which I expect from thee: whichis able to make the fewer superior to themore numerous, and the weaker, to thestronger, and thence it is alone that I venture to meet Zerah and fight him." While Asa was speaking thus, God gavehim a signal victory; and joining battle cheerfully on account of what God had foretoldabout it, he slew a great many of the Etbiopians: and when he had put them to flight,he pursued them to the country of Gerar.And when they left off killing their enemies,they betook themselves to spoiling them, (forthe city of Gerar was already taken;) and tospoiling their camp. So that they carried offmuch gold and silver, and a great deal ofother prey, and camels, and cattle, and flocksof sheep. Accordingly when Asa and hisarmy had obtained such a victory, and such * From an. 975 to 955, at eleven months to a year.See Chron. of the Old Testament, page 16—20. t The Scripture takes no notice of what was the causeof this war between Zerah and Asa, nor are interpreterswell agreed what the country was from whence this ene­my came. The country, in the original, is called Cush,though we translate it Ethiopia. Now there are threecountries different from one another, all called by thename of Cush: 1. the land of Cush, upon the river Gihon;2. Cush upon the eastern shore of the Red Sea; and, 3.Cush, situated above Thebais, and in Upper Egypt. Itis very probable, then, that the country here spoken ofmust not be Ethiopia, properly so called, because we canhardly imagine, how an army of a million of men shouldbe permitted to march through Egypt, (as they must have done to invade Judea,) without some opposition: andtherefore the country must be the land of Cush, whichlay in Arabia Petraea, upon the east shore of the Red Sea,and, at the extremity to the point of that sea, incliningtowards Egypt and Judea. And whereas some havemade a doubt, how so small a country could have pro­duced so large an army, it is no hard matter to suppose,that a great part of the array might perhaps have beenmercenaries. Calmest Commentary on 2 Chron. xiv. 9and Dictionary, under the word Cush. And Well's Geog­raphy of the Old Testament, vol. I. c. 4. B. J The reader is to remember that Cush is not Ethiopiabut Arabia. See Bochart Phaleg. IV 2 B An. 947. § 2 Chron. xiv. 9.