OCR Output 24 THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR. embassy at the same time also to Athens, instructed by anymeans to prevent the junction of the Athenian to the navalstrength of the Corcyreans, which might hinder them frombringing this war to a successful issue. The Athenians beingmet in general assembly*, both embassies rose up to pleadtheir own cause; and the Corcyrean spoke as followeth: • The lx*.X>>ri* or assembly of the people. In this the sovereignty wasvested ; and it is proper the English reader should grow acquainted withthis particular form in the Athenian democracy. The people of Athens were divided into ten tribes, which presided byrotation. The year was divided into ten courses, and each tribe presidedabout five weeks. The tribe in course elected fifty persons to manage bytheir authority and in their name : These were called Prytanes. This beingtoo large a number for business, they were subdivided into tens, each ofthese divisions presiding for a week : and these were called Proedri. Oneof the Proedri presided or was in the chair for a day, and was stiled Epis-tates. For that day, and he never enjoyed this pre-eminence a second timein his life, he was invested with the highest trust in the government. Hekept the public seal and the keys of the citadel and treasury. In the as-sembly of the people he ordered all the proclamations, regulated proceed­ings, put the question, and declared the majority. The assemblies of the people were of two kinds, ordinary and extraordina­ry. Of the first kind, four were regularly held during each presidency ofthe tribes, and at the third of them ambassadors from foreign states hadpublic audience. The latter were occasionally convened by the president!in course, or by the generals of the state. Some days before-hand, noticewas publicly given by the senate or council of five hundred upon what sub­jects they were to deliberate; but this could not be observed upon suddenemergencies. They met early in the morning, generally in the Pnyx, at the summons ofthe public crier. At the second summons they were obliged to attend attheir peril. For then the proper officers ran along the forum with a ropestretched across, and rubbed over with vermilion, and all upon whom a markwas found were fined ; but those who attended early and regularly, receivedhalf a drachma each for attendance. The number which attended gene­rally amounted to five or six thousand. The assembly opened with the sacrifice of a young pig to Ceres, and theblood was sprinkled round by way of purification. Then a prayer was pro­nounced aloud by the crier for the prosperity of the commonwealth ofAthens ; which ended, a curse was next pronounced on every citizen whodid sny thing to the prejudice of his country. Then the presidents of theweek opened the points upon which they were convened, and the assem­bly proceeded to business.