OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXXI. 325 their country; adding, that ' they did not complain onaccount of having, from an enemy, suffered hostiletreatment; for there were certain rights of war, ac­cording to which, as it was just to act, so it was justto endure. Their crops being burned, their housesdemolished, their men and cattle carried off as spoil,were to be considered rather as misfortunes to thesufferer, than as ill treatment. But of this they hadgood reason to complain, that he who called theRomans foreigners and barbarians, had so atrociouslyviolated, himself, all rights both divine and human, as,in his former inroad, to have waged an impious waragainst the infernal gods, in the latter against thoseabove. That every sepulchre and monument withintheir country was demolished, the graves torn open,and the bones left uncovered. There had been seve­ral temples, which, in former times, when their an­cestors dwelt in the country in their separate districts,had been consecrated in each of their little forts andvillages, and which, even after they were incorporatedinto one city, they did not neglect or forsake. Everyone of these sacred edifices had Philip destroyed byfire, and left the images of the gods lying scorched andmutilated among the prostrated pillars of the temples.Such as he had rendered the country of Attica, for­merly opulent, and adorned with improvements, such,if he were suffered, would he render jEtolia and everypart of Greece. That Athens, also, would have beenreduced to the same ruinous state, if the Romans hadnot come to its relief: for he had shown the samewicked rage against the gods, who are the guardiansof the city, and Minerva, who presides over thecitadel; the same against the temple of Ceres atEleusis; the same against Jupiter and Minerva atPirasus. In a word, having been repelled by force ofarms, not only from their temples, but even from theirwalls, he had vented his fury on those sacred edifices,which had no defence but in the respect due to reli­gion. They therefore intreated and besought thejEtolians, that, compassionating the Athenians, and. following the guidance of the gods, and, under them,