OCR Output 334- THE DECLINE AND FALX Viaories of she strength of Aurelian had crushed on every side the enemies Piobus over thebarba- of Rome. After his death they seemed to revive, and even to mul­tiply. They were again vanquished by the active vigour of Probus,who, in a short reign of about six years*9, equalled the fame of;ancient heroes, and restored peace and order to every province ofthe Roman world. The dangerous frontier of Rhqctia he so firmly-secured, that he left it without the suspicion of an enemy. Hebroke the wandering power of the Sarmatian tribes, and by the ter­ror of his arms compelled those barbarians to relinquish their spoil.'The'Gothic nation courted the alliance of so warlike an emperor 5°.He attacked the Isaurians in their mountains4 besieged and tookseveral of their strongest castles and flattered himself that he hadfor ever suppressed a domestic foe, whose independence so deeplywounded the majesty of the empire. The troubles excited by theusurper Firmus in the Upper Egypt, had never been perfectly ap­peased, and the cities of Ptolemais and Coptos, fortified by thealliance of the Blemmyes, still maintained an obscure rebellion,.The chastisement of those cities, and of their auxiliaries the savagesof the South? is said to have alarmed the court of Persia and theGreat King sued in vain for the friendship of Probus. Most of theexploits whioh distinguished his reign, were atchieved by the per­sonal valour .and conduct of the emperor, insomuch that the writerof his life expresses some amazement how, in so short a time, asingle man could be present in so many distant wars. The remain­ing actions he entrusted to the care of his lieutenants, the judiciouschoice of whom forms no inconsiderable part of his glory. Carus,Dioclcsian, Maximian, Constantius, Galerius, Asclepiodatus, Anni-balianus, and a crowd of other chiefs, who afterwards ascended orsupported the throne, were trained to arms in the severe school ofAurelian and Probus 35.A. D. 2-7. But the most important service which Probus rendered to the re-^lulseoÆihe Pu^ucj was tne deliverance of Gaul, and the recovery of seventy flourishing