OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI1I. halted in order of battle, apprehensive of treachery or-ambush ; but the troops of Bessas, with their leader, hadalready escaped; and when the king was pressed todisturb their retreat, he prudently replied, that no sightcould be more grateful than that of a flying enemy. ThePatricians, who were still possessed of horses, Decius, Ba-silius, &c. accompanied the governor; their brethren,among whom Olybrius, Orestes, and Maximus arenamed by the historian, took refuge in the church of St.Peter; but the assertion, that only five hundred personsremained in the capital, inspires some doubt of the fideli­ty either of his narrative or of his text. As soon asdaylight had displayed the entire victory of the Goths,their monarch devoutly visited the tomb of the princeof the apostles; but while he prayed at the altar, twenty-.five soldiers, and sixty citizens, were put to the sword inthe vestibule of the temple. The archdeacon Pelagius"stood before him with the gospels in his hand. "OLord, be merciful to your servant." "Pelagius (saidTotila with an insulting smile), your pride now conde­scends to become a suppliant." "I am a suppliant,(replied the prudent archdeacon) God has now made usyour subjects, and as your subjects we are entitled to yourclemency." At his humble prayer, the lives of the Ro­mans were spared; and the chastity of the maids andmatrons was preserved inviolate from the passions of thehungry soldiers. But they were rewarded by the free­dom of pillage, after the most precious spoils had beenreserved for the royal treasury. The houses of thesenators were plentifully stored with gold and silver;and the avarice of Bessas had laboured with so muchguilt and shame for the benefit of the conqueror. Inthis revolution, the sons and daughters of Roman con- "During the long exile, and after the death of Vigilius, the Roman church was go­verned, at first by the archdeacon, and at length (A. D. 555.) by the pope Pelagius,who was not thought guiltless of the sufferings of his predecessor. See the originallives of the popes under the name of Anastasius, (Muratori, Script. Rer. Italicarum,tom. 3.' p. 1. 130, 131.) who relates several curious incidents of the sieges of Romeand the wars of Italy.