OCR Output PESLA. 581 TETALIAE. !•.oraliaofd by Paul us Diaccmus (Ffltt Jxing.l l() » or*, of tbo chief cities of Tuscia under theLtbtrii, od in the middle ages became an in-t-ytdtat republic. Prrugin still continnes a con-■^nik cirr. with 15,000 inhabitants, and is thea;«il ofor* of the provinces of the Roman states.n» maaVra city of Perugia retains considerableof its ancient grandeur. The most im-l«*jn of tine in the remains of the walls, whichtv ii chtrarler with those of Cknui and Tod*,hag consoled of tag rectangular blocks of traver-i>. <f ten rerohr masonry, wholly different from"• nia ui more massiTe walls of Cortona andi-iirrra It it a subject of much doubt whethertor Tills belong to the Etruscan city, or are of'■ uj T.imu time*. The ancient gates, two of»*-«4 «U nit tnuit in ail probability be referred * tt< Uner period. The most striking of these is■in m known ts the Arco dAugusta, from their'tyj* 'AnrtttU l'erusia" over the arch: thisraiLh ditra from the restoration of the city underiKunn. though some writers would assign it to ano ten remote period. Another gate, known ask> /Wta Mania, also retains its ancient arch; wren] others, though more or less modernised,p rriinh of ancient construction as high as theayatt |t is thus certain that the ancient citya* *t Don extensive than the modern one; but,<tit, it otfupird only the summit of the lull,»*J s of ray considerable elevation, and sendsan u nets and underfaits on the one side towards'Ti*!, on the other towards the lake of Thra­ce*. Hence the lines of circumvallation drawnavi tat foot of the hill by Octavian enclosed am X rtadia, or 7 Raman miles (Appiun, /:. C.531 thonrt the circuit of the city itself did notMil aula. 71- tiirf remains of the ancient Etruscan city< u» »pskhrei without the walls, many of which"^"3 rxplond, and one—the family tomb of theaaa»—ats bean preserved in precisely the same ■ " •*« first discovered. From the insrrip-a. uae of vhich are bilingnal, we learn that the * an vu written in Etruscan " Velimnas,"hi j rendered in Latin by Volumnius. OthersHt>i appear to have belonged to the families ■ ernes aaramed the Latin forms, Alia, Caesia,■au. Veuia, and Vibta. Another of these tombsntniiJIt for the careful construction and regularan of as arched vault, on which is engraved anftna inscription of considerable length. But a nrpartant monmnent of that people is an5*tj urw preserved in the mnseum at Perugia, * a:.sd» to forty-six lines in length, and is theTOaarsUe fragment of the language which ■*> nmrrred to us. [Ethukia, p 858.] Nu­ts avrophagi. urns, vases, and other relics fromar*j tombs, are preserved in the same museum,a] *t rnacy inacriptioos of the Roman period.M^i, Itcrmoni Perugine, 2 vols, 4to., Pe-k US«; Id. /{ Sepolcro dei Voturmi, 4tn„nX 1*41; Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. pp 458— * bam from ancient authoni that Juno was re­al» :i* latthvrr deity of I'eras is till after the•t ^ the oty fca av. c 40, when the temple of * areaj the only edifice that escaped the con- list deity was adopted by the survivingas a tketr peculiar patron. (Dion Cass, xlviii. a. C. v. 49.) [K.H.B.]l'U or PESCLA (A'or. Imp. c. 28, vol. i. p. 75, ed. B'dcking), is probably the border-fortress inthe N. of the Thebaid, which Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 71)calls naaaiXuv or ndrnroAoi. Pesla stood on theright bank of the Nile, and was the quarters of aGerman company (turma) of cavalry (D'Anville,Afrm. ntr TEgypte, p. 190). [W. B. D.] PESSINUS, PES1NUS (neo-o-n-oCr, IWrruWi:Eth. Tltaaivovvrtos), the principal town of the To-listoboii, in the west of Galatia, situated on thesouthern slope of Mount Dindymus or Agdistis, nearthe left bank of the river Sangarius, from whosesources it was about 15 miles distant. (Pans. L 4.§ 5; Strab. xii. p. 567.) It was 16 miles southof Genua, on the road from Ancyra to Amorium.{It. Ant. pp. 201, 202.) It was the greatest com­mercial town in those parts, and was believed tohave derived its name from the image of its greatpatron divinity, which was said to have fallen(wfo*cii*) from heaven. (Herodian, i. 11; Anim.Marc. xxii. 9.) Pessinus owes its greatest celebrityto the goddess Rhea or Cybele,whom the natives calledAgdistis, and to whom an immensely rich templewas dedicated. Her priests were anciently therulers of the place ; but in later times their honoursand powers were greatly reduced. (Strab. /. c, x.p. 469; Diod. Sic. iii. 58, &c.) Her temple con­tained her image, which, according to some, was ofstone (Liv. xxix. 10, 11), or, according to othent, ofwood, and was believed to have fallen from heaven.(Apollod. iii. 11; Amm. Mare. I. c.) The fame ofthe goddess appears to have extended all over theancient world; sad in n. c. 204, in accordance witha command of the Sibylline books, the Romans senta special embassy to Pessinus to fetch her statue, itbeing believed that the safety of Rome depended onits removal to Italy. (Liv. I. c; Strab. xii. p. 567.)The statue was set up in the temple of Victory, onthe Palatine. The goddess, however, continuednevertheless to be worshipped at Pessinus; and theGalli, her priests, sent a deputation to Manlins whenhe was encamped on the banks of the Sancarius.(Liv. xxxviii. 18; Polyb. xx. 4.) At a still laterperiod, the emperor Julian worshipped the goddessin her ancient temple. (Amm. Marc. I. c.) Thekings of Pergamum adorned the sanctuary with amagnificent temple, and porticoes of white marble,and surrounded it with a beautiful grove. Underthe Roman dominion the town of Pessinus began todecay, although in the new division of the empireunder Constantine it was made the capital of theprovince Galatia Salutaris. (Hieroel. p. 697.)After the sixth century the town is no longer men­tioned in history. Considerable ruins of Pessinus,especially a well-preserved theatre, exist at a dis­tance of 9 or 10 miles to the south-east of SevriIlittar, where they were first discovered by Texier.(Iktcript. de tAiie Mimeort). They extend overthree hills, separated by valleys or ravines. Themarble seats of the theatre are nearly entire, butthe scena is entirely destroyed; the whide district iscovered with blocks of marble, shafts of columns,and other fragments, showing that the place musthave been one of unusual magnificence. (Hamilton,fajcarches, i. p 438, foil.; Leake, Asia Minor, p.82, foil., who seems to be mistaken in looking forPessinus on the right bank of the Sangarius. [L. S.] I'ETA'LIAE, incorrectly called Petalia (IlfToA/o)by Strabo (x. p 444), small islands off the coast ofKuboea, at the entrance of the Kuripus, now J'eta-liit. (PUn. iv. 12. s. 23; Leake, Northern Greece,toI. ii. p. 423.) p p 3