OCR Output DISCOURSE III. lemn parley held at their approach. Archidamus is at thehead of this ungenerous enterprise. The malice of the The-bans must be gratified, since the alliance of Boeotia in thiswar is of mighty consequence, and to be purchased at anyrate. Archidamus indeed struggles hard for the Plataeans ;he would fain spare them, could he persuade them to a neu­trality. But the Plataeans have too much honour and gra­titude to be neutral, when Athens, their faithful guardianand ally, is principally struck at. They remonstrate in vainfrom the topics of honour, justice, gratitude, the glory andsanction of the great progenitors on either side. The siegeis formed, and strenuously plied, though without success.Our author always shines in exact description : No methodof annoyance or defence is omitted. It is at length turnedinto a blockade, and a sufficient body of troops left behindto carry it on, when the main army marcheth off. The war grows warm in more remote quarters; in Thrace,and in Acarnania. An Athenian squadron, stationed atNaupactus in the bay of Crissa, awed all the motions of theCorinthians and allies on their own coasts ; and it was de­termined, to clear away this annoyance. Accordingly, theylaunch out against it with more than double the number ofvessels. The Athenians, at one exertion of skill, drive themall on a heap, defeat them, and make prizes of twelve. TheLacedaemonians, excellent land-men but very awkward sea­men, think this an unaccountable event. They send downtheir most active commanders to refit and reinforce the fleet,and to try their fortune again at sea. Much artifice is em­ployed on both sides. The short harangues of the admiralslet us into all the views and designs of either party. Phor-mio at length is snared; the enemy blunders; then Phormioextricates himself, and gives them a second defeat. Thereader sees every tack, and the motion of every vessel. Disconcerted here, they form a bold project indeed tosurprise the Piraeus by night, and to finish the war in a mo­