OCR Output 254 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK Ilk 4 whereas their predecessors had observed this rule, thatonly one should have the fasces at a time, which passedin rotation through them all, to each of them regularlyin his turn. One hundred and twenty lictors now filledthe forum, carrying axes tied up in their fasces. Nordid they think themselves entitled to withdraw the axe?,since by the decemviral constitution, there was no appealfrom their judgment. They had the appearance of tenkings, which not only filled the minds of the populacewith uncommon terror, but damped the principal sena­tors not a liittei from a persuasion, that they only want,ed a pretence to lay the foundation of their authority inblood. For, should any one> 'Cither in the senate, orassemblies, utter a syllable* serving to revive the re­membrance of liberty, he would run the risk of his skin>and perhaps his head, to intimidate others from usingthe same freedom. The right of appeal to the people was taken away, sothat no relief could be expected from that quarter, andmatters had been so concerted among the decemvirs, thatone of them would not receive an appeal from the deci­sion of another^ which was very different from the prac­tice of last year, when they not only suffered appeals toone another, but also transferred causes to the judgmentof the people, that properly belonged to their own tri­bunal. For some time they were equally formidable toall ranks; but by degrees, the whole weight of theirpower began to be pointed against the populace. They spared the Patricians, whilst their schemes a-gainst those of lower rank, were cruel and oppressive;regarding the person, not the justice of the cause, inte­rest with them constantly supplanting equity. Theyadvised all causes at home, and only pronounced sen­tence in the forum. In cases of appeals, the appellantwas handled so roughly, that he had reason to repent ofhis application fot a new verdict. A report too, beganto be spread, though no author was given, that they hadconspired among themselves, not only to exercise theirtyranny for the present, but had entered secretly into acompact, which they had confirmed by oath, never tocall a new -election, but now that they were once inpossession, to make their authority perpetual.