OCR Output VEIL VEIL 1263 ame, without calling upon tlie state for either Rol­lers or money. The senate thankfully accepted»c offer. On the following morning 306 Fabii meti the vestibule of the consul's house. As theyavMxl through the city to the place of their dea-nation, they itopped at the capitol and offered npnws to the gods for the success of their enterprise.Tien they passed out of Rome by the right arch ofbe Porta Carmentalis, and proceeded straight to the>ver Cremera, where there was a spot that seemedUptril by nature as a fortress for their little gar-t*oo. It appears, however, that tho Fabii were•-cornpanied by their clients and adherents, andbm whole band probably amounted to 3000 or 4000.i Honys. ix. 15; P. £>iac t. v. Sakrata Porta.')Tbc place which they chose as the station of theirsrrisun was a precipitous hill which seemed tomrt been cut and isolated by art; and they further-rengtbened it with entrenchments and towers,rix spot has been identi6ed with great probability ■ v Xardini, and subsequently hy other topographers,rith a precipitous hill about 6 miles from Home, onhe left of the Via Flamiuia, where it is traversed the Cremera (now the Vakha). and on theight bank of that stream. It is the height which ■rnmands the present Otteria della Valchetta. Vibby, IfttUorni di Roma, vol. iii. p. 399; Dennis,Ktmria, vol. i. p. 43.) The position here taken up by the Fabii not onlyrallied them to put a complete stop to the mo­unding expeditions of the Veientines, but even totcnout depredations themselves on the territory ofli. The Veientines having made many vain at-empts to dislodge them, at length implored thenscrjour of tlie Etruscans; but the Fabii on their■Ida were supported by a consular army under Ae-nilhu, and the Veientines and their allies were de-Viied. Tliis success rendered the Fabii still more•Titerprisiug. After occupying their fortress tworears with impunity they began to extend their-reunions; and the Veientines on their side ■ ought to draw them onwards, in which they attngth succeeded. By a feigned flight, they en-netl the Fabii into an ambuscade and slew them,13th Feh. B.O.476. (Ov. /Vm<. ii. 195, sqq.; Lit.,u 48—40; lMonys. ix. 16—19; Floras, i. 12,4c.) Klated with this success, the Veientines, unitedrith the Etruscans, now marched towards Romemil pitched their camp on the Janiculan hill, at a'Lt'anee of only 6 stadia from the city. Thence pass-ng the Tiber, they penetrated as far as tho ancientrv.ple of Hope, which stood near the modern PortaMayyijrt. Here an indecisive action took place,which was renewed at the Porta Collina with thehum result; but two engagements of a more de­risive character on the Janiculan hill obliged theilbed army to retreat. In the following year thev'rierjtincs allied themselves with the Sabines, but"ere completely defeated under the walls of theirm city by the consul Pub. Valerius. The war»u brought to a termination in the following year,us the consulship of C. Manlius, who concluded with[t-em a truce uf 40 years, the Veientines engagingte pay a tribute in corn and money. (Lit. ii.51—54; Dionys. ix. 23, sqq.) But such terms were merely nominal, and in afew years hostilities were renewal. We hear oftorn* forays made by the Veientines in B. c. 442[Lrv. Iv. 1); but there was no regular war tillrven years later, when the Veientines, who were atnat time governed by Lars, or King, Tolumnius, excited the Roman colony Fidenae to rebel; and inorder completely to compromise the - Fidenates, To­lumnius ordered them to slay the Roman ambas­sadors who had been despatched to demand anexplanation. Both sides new to arms; one or twoobstinate engagements ensued; but the allies whohad been joined by the Falisci also, were overthrownin a decisive battle under the walk) of Fidenae, inwhich Tolumnius was killed by the Roman militarytribune, A. Cornelius Cosh us. (Liv. iv. 17—19;cf. I'ropert. iv. 10. 22, sqq.) Three years afterwards, Rome being afflicted witha severe pestilence, the Veientines and Fidenateswere emboldened to march upon it, and encampedbefore the Porta Collina; but on the appearance ofa Roman army under the dictator Aulas Servilius,they retreated. Serrilius having pursued and routedthem near Nomentum, marched to Fidenae, whichhe at length succeeded in taking by means of acuniculus or mine. (Liv. iv. 22.) Although the Veientines obtained a truce afterthis event, yet they soon violated it, and began tocommit depredations in the Roman territory, n. c427; and even defeated a Roman army whose ope­rations had been paralysed through the dissensionscf the three military tribunes who commanded it.The Fidenates now rose and massacred all the Ro­man colonists, and again allied themselves with theVeientines, who had also enlisted a great numberof Etruscan volunteers in Uieir service. Theseevents occasioned great alarm at Rome, MamercusAemilius was created dictator, and, marching againstthe enemy, encamped in the peninsula formed bythe confluence of the Anio and the Tiber. Betweenthis spot and Fidenae a desperate battle was fought:stratagems were employed on both sides; but atlength the allies were completely defeated, and theRomans entered the gates of Fidenae along with theflying enemy. The city was sacked and destroyedand the inhabitants sold as slaves; but on the otherhand the Romans granted the Veientines a truceof 20 years. (Liv. iv. 31—35.) At the expiration of this truco, the Romans re­solved to subdue Veil, as they had done Fidenae,and it was besieged by an army commanded by sixmilitary tribunes. At this news the national as­sembly of the Etruscans met at the fane of Vol-tumna, to consider what course they should pursue.The Veientines had again resorted to the regalform of government; but unfortunately the personwhom they elected for their king, though rich andpowerful, had incurred the hatred of the wholeEtruscan nation by his oppressions and imperiousmanners, but especially by his having hindered theperformance of certain sacred games. The Etrus­cans consequently declared that, unless he was de­posed, they should afford the Veientines no assist­ance. But the Utter were afraid to adopt thisresolution, and thus they were abandoned to theirfate. Nevertheless, they contrived to prolong thesiege for a period of ten years, during which thoRomans were several times discounted. It isworthy of remark that it was during this siege thatthe Roman soldiers, being obliged to pass the winterout of Rome, first received a fixed regular stipend.The Cspenates, the Falisci, and the Tarquinienses iuvain endeavoured to relievo the beleaguered city. The length of the siege had begun to wearythe Romans, when, according to the legend, tliemeans of its capture was suggested by an extraordi­nary portent. The waters of Lake Albonus swelled