OCR Output 142 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. does not seem to me to be necessary to set down the names ofthe seventy [two] elders who-were sent by Eleazar, and carriedthe law, which yet were subjoined at the end of the epistle.However, I thought it not improper to give an account of thosevery valuable and artificially contrived vessels which the kingsent to God, that all may see how great a regard tire king hadfor God; for the king allowed a vast deal of expenses for thesevessels: and came often to the workmen, and viewed their works,and suffered nothing of carelessness or negligence to be any da­mage to their operations. And I will relate how rich theywere as well as I am able, although perhaps the nature of thishistory may not require such a description, but I imagine Ishall thereby recommend the elegant taste and magnanimity ofthis king to those that read this history. 8. And first I will describe what belongs to the table. It wasindeed in the king's mind to make this table vastly large in itsdimensions; but then he gave orders that they should learn whatwas the magnitude of the table which was already at Jerusalem,and how large it was, and whether there were a possibility ofmaking one larger than it. And when he was informed howlarge that was which was already there, and that nothing hin­dered but a larger might be made, he said, That " he was wil-"ling to have one made that should be five times as large as the"present table, but his fear was, that it might be then useless"in their sacred ministrations, by its too great largeness; for he"desired that the gifts he presented them, should not only be"there for show, but should be useful also in their sacred mi-"nistrations." According to which reasoning, that the formertable was made of so moderate a size for use, and not for wantof gold, he resolved that he would not exceed the former tablein largeness; but would make it exceed it in the variety andelegancy of its materials. And as he was sagacious in observingthe nature of all things, and in having a just notion of what wasnew and surprising, and where there was no sculptures, hewould invent such as were proper, by his own skill, and wouldshow them to the workmen, he commanded that such sculpturesshould now be made, and that those which were delineated,should be most accurately formed by a constant regard to theirdelineation. 9. When therefore the workmen had undertaken to make thetable, they framed it in length two cubits [and a half,] inbreadth one cubit, and in height one cubit and a half; and theentire structure of the work was of gold. They withal made acrown of a hand-breadth round it, with wave-work wreathedabout it, and with an engraving imitated a cord, and was admir­ably turned on its three parts; for as they Were of a triangular