OCR Output ■TOG MEDLLL1A. mi:ih)bi:ic.a. talks, and destroyed a considerable part of his fleet.(Liv. x. 2 ) [K. II. B.] MKPOBRIGA, a town in Lusitaniu (Hirt. B.Alex. 48), the inhabitants of which are called byPliny (iv. S3, s. 85) Meiluhriccnses Plumbarii, isthe Name place as Mimiobriga, or Muntobkiua,which is placed in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 420)on the road from Scalabis to Emcrita. There areruins of the ancient town at Marcao, on the frontiersof Portugal. (Hesendi, Ant. tut. p. 58; Florex,E$p. Sttar. xiii. p. 66.) MEDUSLANIL'M (M«5oir^dVio»),a town in thesouthernmost part of Germany (Ptol. ii. 11. § 30),which must have been situated a few miles to thenorth of Vienna. Its exact site is only matter ofconjecture. [L. S.} MKMUCl'S. [Medoacits.] MEDUAXA (M(iyrnnr). a Branch of the Lifer,in Gallia. The name may be ancient, but theTerse of Lucan in which it occurs is spurious.[LioKtt] [G. L] MEDUANTL'M. in Gallia, is placed in the Tableon a road from Durocurtorum (/teinw) through No-viomagus, Mosc or Mosa (.)/ou»on), to Meduautum,an unknnwTi site. [G. L.] ME'DL'LI, a Gallic people on the coast south ofthe Garumna (Garonne). Ausonius (£p. 4) saysto Theon :— "Quum tamen exerces Medulorum in litore vitam."He says in another Epistle to Theon (Ep. 5): — "Units Domnotoni te litore perferet aestusCondatem ad portum, si modo deproperes." [As to this Cnndatis Portus, see Condatk, No. 6.]Ausonius (£'/). 7) thanks Theon for sending himsome of tiic oysters, equal to those of Baiae. whichwere fattened in the "stagna Medulorum." Thecountry of the Meduli corresponds to Medoc in theFrench department of the Gironde. [G. L.] MEDULLI (M«8ouoAAoi, Strabo), an Alpinepeople, whose name occurs in the inscriptionon the arch of Susa and on the Trophy of the Alps(Plin. iii. 20), where they are placed between theAciUvones and Uceni. Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 11)places the Allobroges "under the Meduli," as thename is there written, by which be means that theMeduli occupy the country nearer to the Alps.Strain's description of the position of this people isclear (iv. p. 203) :—" After the Vocontii are the 8i-conii (Icouii), and Tricorii, and then the Medualli,who occupy the highest summits (of the Alps) ; nowthey say that the highest part of their country hasan ascent of one hundred stadia, and thence to theborders of Italy the descent is as much: and above,in certain hollows, there is a great lake, and two springsnot fir from one another, and from one of these Howsthe Drueutius (Ourance), a torrent stream whichflows down to the Uhodantis, and the Durias (Doria)runs in the opposite direction, for it joins the Padus(/'o), flawing down through the country of theSaUs>i into Celtice south of the Alps.*' WhenStrabo says further (iv. p. 204) that the Medulli " lieas near as may be (/utAnrra) above the confluenceof the lsara and the Khone," he is not speaking ofdistance, but of direction or position; for he adds"and tin- other side of the mountaiu country abovedescribed, the part that slopes towards Italy, isoccupied by the Tauriui, a Ligurian people, and otherLiirures." The conclusion is easy that the Medulliw«re in the Mauriame, north and south of the town of 5. Jean de Maurienne, and enclosed brtwtn tbTarenUiisc and Dau/ihine. The lake is mppaalby D'Anville and by Walckenaer (Geog. nLu.p. 31) to be that on Mont Cenit; and Wtlcimieraihls "that it is exactly 200 Olympic stadia frmScez to the termination of the descent, 7 nnlnwest of Aorta." But this is a false conclusion, ar­rived probably from Strabo'a remark about ti*Durias flowing through the country of the Salsa;the stream which flows through the country of tit*Salassi is the Doria Baitea, but the stream ahicarises near the Durance ia the Doria Riparia. DAnville supposed that Strabo made the Alpsin the country of the Medulli 100 stadia in perpen­dicular height, which absurd mistake has been fal­lowed by the French translators of Strabo. Walcke­naer has corrected it; but he bu erroneously madsPtolemy place the Medulli immediately north <tthe Allobroges, instead of to the southeast. Vi-truvius (viii. 3) speaks of the goitre* of the Medulli.a disease supposed to arise frum the water whaathev drank. [G. L-j MEDU'LLIA (M«8oAA/a: Eth. M.Ju\Au».i. Me-dullinus), an ancient city of Latium, whidi is re­peatedly mentioned in the early history of Borne;but, like many others, had disappeared at a oita-paratively early period. According to Dionysus itwas one of the colonies of Alba; and Diudorus alsoincludes it among the cities of which be ascribes thefoundation to Latinus Silvius. (Dionys. Hi. 1; Diiaivii., ap. Etutb. Arm. p. 185.) VS'e are told that itfell into the power of Homulus by the voluntarysubmission of the inhabitants after the fail of Cru--tumerium, and many of it* citizens migrated toKoine, among whom was the father ot 7'ullus Ilo»-tilius. (Dionys. ii. 36, iii. 1.) But in the reign JAncus Marcius it was again conquered by the Lai tu,who held it for above three years, when the K-maaking a second time reduced it. (Id. iii. 38.) Livy,however, says nothing of this reconqoest, but treats itthroughout us a Latin city, and enumerates it ir/wiethose of the Prisci Latini which were taken by Tar-quinius Priscus (i. 33, 38). At a somewhat laterperiod it is mentioned for the last time, in B. c 484,as abandoning the Roman alliance, and joimng theSabines. (Dionys. vi. 34.) We have no account t«the period of its ilestruclion, but it is not notice*! byany of the geographers, and Pliny tells us that itwas no longer in existence in his time (iiL 5. a. *> The name of Medullia is found in Livy associatedwith those of Comiculnm, Ficulea, Crnstunichutr.and Nomentum, of which the site ia approximatelyknown, as well as with Ameriola and Caiueria, -Awhich the position is as uncertain as that erf Me­dullia itself. All three were probably situated inthe neighbourhood of the cities just mentioned, butthis is all that can be asserted with any cotdidewe.Gell and Nibby have described the rema'ns of a»ancient city, at a spot called Mareellma, ahoU4 miles from Palombara, at the foot of the UrfiyMontr Gennaro, which the former writer tup(noto be Medullia. The remains in question, cu»»i»tiacof considerable portions of walls of polygt«ial oo-struction, enclosing a triangular area, are unques­tionably those of an ancient city: but its idrnttnrs-tion is wholly uncertain; the situation woctld «uitequally well for Cameria or Ameriola. as i<* Me-duliia. Nibby and Abekcn would place liia Uttfat 5 Angtlti di Ciijmccia, on the highcat summit *rfthe Comkulan hills; where there also remain ancicatwalls, supposed by Gell to be those of i