OCR Output 1 BO LEPOXTIL LEONTIUM. implore the intervention of Athens. (T)iod. xn. 53;Plat. Hipp. Maj. p. 282.) [K. H. 11.] COIN* OF LKONTINI. LEO'NTIUM (AfoVriov: Kth. teovrfatoi), atown of Achaia, was originally not one of the12 Achaean cities, though it afterwards became so,succeeding to the place of Khypes. It is only men­tioned by Polybius, and its position is uncertain.It must, however, have been an inland town, andwas probably between Pharae and the territory oiAegium, since we find that the Eleians under theAetolian general Euripidas, after marching throughthe territory of Pharae as far as that of Aegium.retreated to Lcontium. Leake places it in thevalley of the Selinus, between the territory of Tri-taea and that of Aegium, at a place now called AiA ndhrca, from a ruined church of that saint near thevillage of Guzumutra. Callicratcs, the parti/^in ofthe Romans during the later days of the AchaeanLeague, was a native of Leontium. (Pol. ii. 41,y. 94, xxvi. 1 ; Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p. 419.) LEOXTO'POLIS. [NiCKPHomuM.] LEOXTO'POLIS. [Lkontks.] LEOXTO'POLIS (AtoVrw wrfAij, Ptol. iv. 5.§ 51 ; Strab. xvii. pp. 802, 812 ; AfoVrw, Hieronym.ad Jovian, ii. C; Lcontos Oppiduin, Plin. v. 20.s. 17), the capital of the Leoutopolite nome in theDelta of Egypt. It stood in lat. 30° 6' N., aboutthreo geographical miles S. of Thmuis. Strabo isthe earliest writer who mentions either this nome, orits chief town: and it was probably of comparativelyrecent origin and importance. The lion was nutamong the sacred animals of Aegypt: but that itwas occasionally domesticated and kept in thetemples, may be inferred from Diodorus (ii. 84).Trained lions, employed in the chase of deers, wolves, I&c, are found in the hunting-pieces delineated upontli'- walls of the grottoes at Btnihatsan. (Wilkinson,M. and C. vol. iii. p. 1C.) In the reign of PtolemyPhiloiuetor (n. c. 180—145) a temple, modelled jafter that of Jerusalem, was founded by the exiledJewish priest Onias. (Joseph. Ant Jud. xiii. 3. |§ 3; Hieronym. m Daniel ch. xi.) The Hebrew ]colony, which was attracted by the establishmentof their national worship at Lcuntojolis, and which .was increased by the refugees from the opprrs- I•ions of the Seleucid kings in Palestine, nourishedthere for more than three centuries afterwards.In the reign of Vespasian the I^eontopolite templewas closed, amid the general discouragement ofJudaism by that ern|>eror. (Joseph. /-'. .///•/. vii.10. § 4.) Ami {uarians are divided as to the realsite of the ruins of Lcontopulis. According toD'Anville, they are et>vered by a mound still calledTzl-Essabe. or the "Lion's Hill" (Comp. Cham-pollion, CEgypte, vol. ii. p. 110, scq.). Jomard, onthe otlier hand, maintains that some tumuli near thevillage of ELMengaleh in the Delta, represent tlwancient Lcontopolu. And this supposition agreesbetter with the account of the town given by Xe- nophon of Ephesus. (A/>Aejwca, iv. p. 280, ed.Bipont.) [W. 11. D.] LEPETYMNUS (Acvrrvproff, called Lepetbym-nus or Lcpethymus by Pliny, v. 31. s. 39; the MSS.vary), a mountain in the northern part of Lesbos, nearMethymna. Plebn states (Lesbuic. Lib. p. 9) thatit is the highest mountain in tho island: but tinsdoes not appear to be consistent with modernsurveys. Its present name is said to be Mtmt S.Theodore. The sepulchre and tomb of the benPalamedcs are alleged to have been here, (Tzetiea,Lycophr. Cussandr. 1095; Phila-.tr. Heroic p. 716,\'il. Apollon. Tyan. iv. 13. 150, also 16. 154.) InAntigouus of Carystus (c. 17) there is a story given,on the authority of Myrsilus the Lesbian, concerninga temple of Apollo and a shrine of the hero Lepe-tymmis, connected with the same mountain. Here,also, according to Theophrastus (De Sign. Plue. ttVent. p. 783, ed. Schueid.), an astronomer calledMatricetas made his observations. [J. S. 11 j LEPItfUS MONS is the name given by Columella(x. 131), the only author in whom the name isfound, to a mountain near Signia in Latiam, pro­bably one of the undcrfalls or offshoot* of the greatmass of the Volscian Apennines. The name ofMontcs Lepini is frequently applied by modern geo­graphers to the whole of the lofty mountain groupwhich sef-arates the valley of the Sacco from th«Pontine Marshes [ Lai it m j ; but there is no ancientauthority for this. [E. H. B.] LEPIDO'TONPOLIS (A«TioW£r *> AtirioWrirw6\is, Ptol. iv. 5. § 72), a town in Upper Egyjt,situated in the Pauopolite nome, and on the easternside of the Kile. It was about four geographicalmiles X. of Chcnoboscia. Lat. 26° 2' N. This wadoubtless, the place at which Herodotus had bra.ilthat the fish lepidotu* was caught in great num­bers, and even received divine honours (ii. 72.comp. Minutoli, p. 414; Champollion, tEgyyte,voL i. p, 248). Lepidoton-Polis was probably o*>nected with the O.-irian worship, for, accordingto the legend, Isis, in her search for the limbs of0>iris, who had been cut into pieces by Typbon,traversed the marshes in a boat made of papyrus(Maris), and in whatsoever place she found a member,there she buried it. In the end idie discovered allthe limbs, excepting one, which liad been devouredby the fishes phagrtu and lepidohu. No remains ofLepidotnn*Polis liave been discovered. [W. B. D.] LEPO'XTII (AiproVnoi, Strab., Ptol.), an Al­pine people, who inhabited the t alleys cm tbe southside of the Alps, about the head of the two greatlakes, the Logo di Como and l^iyo Mngyuct.Strabo tells us distinctly that they were a 1. tiactitribe (iv. p. 206), and adds that, like many others ofthe minor Alpine tribe*, they had at one time spreadfurther into Italy, but had been gradually driven backinto tho mountains, (lb. p. 204.) There is somedifficulty in determining the position and limits ■ ttheir territory. Caesar tells us that the Rhine tookits rise in the country of the Lepontii (B. 0. iv. 10),aud Pliny says that tho L'beri (or Viberi), who werea ti in* of the Lepontii, occupied the sources of tbeRhone (Plin. iii. 20. s. 24). Ptolemy, on the con­trary (iii. 1. § 38), places them in the CoUianAlps; but this is opposed to all the other statement*,Strabo distinctly connecting them with the Khae-Uans. Their name occurs also in the list of tbeAlpine nations on the trophy of Augustus (<Jp>/Via. /. i-.), in a manner quite in accordance m'hthe statements of Caesar and Pliny; and on tbe