OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 35 20. While the two consular armies were employedin the siege of Privernum, one of the consuls was re­called to Rome, to preside at the elections. This yeargaols were first erected in the circus. While the at­tention of the public was still occupied by the Priver-nian war, it was forcibly attracted by an alarming re­port of the Gauls being in arms, a matter at no timeslighted by the senate. The new consuls, therefore,Lucius jEmilius Mamercinus and Caius Plautius, onthe calends of July, [A.U.C. 426. B.C. 326] the veryday on which they entered into office, received ordersto settle the provinces immediately between themselves.Mamercinus, to whom the Gallic war fell, was directedto levy troops, without admitting any plea of immu­nity : nay, it is said, that even the rabble of handi­crafts, and those of sedentary trades, of all the worstqualified for military service, were called out; bywhich means a vast army was collected at Veii, inreadiness to meet the Gauls. It was not thought pro­per to proceed to a greater distance, lest the Gaulsmight by some other route arrive at the city withoutbeing observed. In the course of a few days it wasfound, on a careful inquiry, that every thing on thatside was quiet at the time; and the whole force, whichwas to have opposed the Gauls, was then turned againstPrivernum. Of the issue of the business there aretwo different accounts : some say that the city wastaken by storm, and that Vitruvius fell alive into thehands of the conquerors; others, that the townsmen,to avoid the extremities of a storm, presented the rodof peace, and surrendered to the consul, and that Vi­truvius was delivered up by his troops. The senate,being consulted with respect to Vitruvius and the Pri-vernians, sent directions that the consul Plautius shoulddemolish the walls of Privernum, and, leaving a stronggarrison there, come home to enjoy the honor of atriumph ; at the same time ordering that Vitruviusshould be kept in prison until the return of the consul,and that he should then be beaten with rods, and put todeath. His house, which stood on the Palatine hill,