OCR Output 190 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. them for betraying their dominion and freedom to thesepigmies of the south, contemptible in their numbers, di­minutive in their stature. Before the Goths could re­cover from the first surprise, and claim the accomplish­ment of their doubtful hopes, the victor established hispower in Ravenna, beyond the danger of repentanceCaptivity and revolt. Vitiges, who perhaps had attempted to es-1 >ges' cape, was honourably guarded in his palace ;r the flowerof the Gothic youth was selected for the service of theemperor; the remainder of the people was dismissed totheir peaceful habitations in the southern provinces;and a colony of Italians was invited to replenish the depo­pulated city. The submission of the capital was imitatedin the towns and villages of Italy, which had not beensubdued, or even visited, by the Romans; and the in­dependent Goths, who, remained in arms at Pavia andVerona, were ambitious only to become the subjects ofBelisarius. But his inflexible loyalty rejected, except asthe substitute of Justinian, their oaths of allegiance;and he was not offended by the reproach of their de­puties, that he rather chose to be a slave than a king.gio'^of1"1 After the second victory of Belisarius, envy againBelisarius. whispered, Justinian listened, and the hero was recalled."The remnant of the Gothic war was no longer worthyof his presence: a gracious sovereign was impatient toreward his services, and to consult his wisdom: and healone was capable of defending the east against the innu­merable armies of Persia." Belisarius understood thesuspicion, accepted the excuse, embarked at Ravennahis spoils and trophies; and proved, by his ready obedi­ence, that such an abrupt removal from the governmentof Italy was not less unjust than it might have been in­discreet. The emperor received, with honourable cour- r He was seized by John the Sanguinary, but an oath or sacrament was pledgedfor his safety in the Basilica Julii. (Hist. Miscefl. lib. 17. in Mnratori, torn. 1. p.107.) Anastasius (in Vit. Pont. p. 40.) gives a dark but probable account. Mont-fancon is quoted by Mascou (Hist, of the Germans, 12. 21.) for a votive shieldrepresenting the captivity of Vitiges, and now in the collection of Signer Landi atRome.