OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. • dOl strong assurance, that, after the defeat of the Lombards,the foreign invaders would easily be repelled, he rushedforward to encounter the implacable enemy of his nameand family. But the courage of the Gepidas could se­cure them no more than an honourable death. Thebravest of the nation fell in the field of battle; the kingof the Lombards contemplated with delight the head ofCunimund; and his skull was fashioned into a cup, tosatiate the hatred of the conqueror, or, perhaps, to com­ply with the savage custom of his country.k After thisvictory, no farther obstacle could impede the progress ofthe confederates, and they faithfully executed the termsof their agreement.' The fair countries of Walachia,Moldavia, Transylvania, and the parts of Hungary be­yond the Danube, were occupied, without resistance, bya new colony of Scvthians: and the Dacian empire ofthe chagans subsisted with splendour above two hundredand thirty years. The nation of the Gepidse was dis­solved; but, in the distribution of the captives, the slavesof the Avars were less fortunate than the companions ofthe Lombards, whose generosity adopted a valiant foe,and whose freedom was incompatible with cool and deli­berate tyranny. One moiety of the spoil introduced in­to the camp of Alboin more wealth than a barbariancould readily compute. The fair Rosamond was per­suaded, or compelled, to acknowledge the rights of hervictorious lover; and the daughter of Cunimund appearedto forgive those crimes which might be imputed to herown irresistible charms. The destruction of a mighty kingdom established the A'b"!^ "■-fame of Alboin. In the days of Charlemagne, the Ba- the c<m-varians, the Saxons, and the other tribes of the Teuto- u^y,"nic language, still repeated the songs which described the A< D-667- k It appears from Strabo, Pliny, and Ammianas Marcellinus, that the same prac­tice was common among the Scythian tribes, (Muratori, Scriptores Rer. Italic, lorn.1. p. 424.) The scalps of North America are likewise trophies of valour. Theskull of Cunimund was preserved above two hundred years among the Lombards;and Paul himself was one of the guests to whom duke Ratchis exhibited this cup ona high festival, (lib. 2. c. 28.) 1 Paul, lib. 1. c. 57. Menander, in Exctrpt. Lcgat. p. 110, 111.