OCR Output 18 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. in the vicissitude of human affairs, had granted to oneof the descendants of Attila. Sabinian, a general illus­trious by his own and his father's merit, advanced at thehead of ten thousand Romans; and the provisions andarms, which filled a long train of waggons, were distri­buted to the fiercest of the Bulgarian tribes. But, in thefields of Margus, the eastern powers were defeated by theinferior forces of the Goths and Huns; the flower andeven the hope of the Roman armies was irretrievably de­stroyed; and such was the temperance with which Theo-doric had inspired his victorious troops, that as theirleader had not given the signal of pillage, the rich spoilsH!s nival of the enemy lay untouched at their feet/ Exasperated armament. n • v i i a. d.509. by this disgrace, the Byzantine court dispatched twohundred ships and eight thousand men to plunder thesea-coast of Calabria and Apulia; they assaulted the an­cient city of Tarentum, interrupted the trade and agri­culture of a happy country, and sailed back to the Hel­lespont, proud of their piratical victory over a peoplewhom they still presumed to consider as their Romanbrethren/ Their retreat was possibly hastened by theactivity of Theodoric; Italy was covered by a fleet of athousand light vessels," which he constructed with incre­dible dispatch; and his firm moderation was soon re­warded by a solid and honourable peace. He maintainedwith a powerful hand the balance of the west, till it wasat length overthrown by the ambition of Clbvis; andalthough unable to assist his rash and unfortunate kins­man the king of the Visigoths, he saved the remains of y See the Gothic transactions on the Danube and in IUyricum, in Jornandes, (c. 58.p. 699.) Ennodins, (p. 1607—1610.) Marcellinus, (io Chron. p. 44. 47, 48.) and Cas-siodorius. (in Chrou. and Var. 3. 23. 50. 4. 13. 7. 4. 24. 8. 9—11. 21. 9. 8, 9.) z I cannot forbear transcrihing the liberal and classic style of count Marceltinas.Romanus comes domesticoram, et Rusticas comes scholariorum cam centum armatisnavibus, totidemque dromonibus, octo milliamilitum armatorum secum ferentibus, addevastanda Italiae littora processerunt, et usque ad Tarentum antiquissiman civitatemaggressi sunt; reniensoque mari inhouestam victoriani quam piraticii ausu RomaniesRomanis rapuerunt, Anastasio Cfesari reportarunt. (in Chron. p. 48.) See Variar. 1.16. 2. 38. 1 See the royal orders and instructions. (Var. 4. 15. 5. 16—20.) These armedboats should be still smaller than the thousand vessels of Agamemnun at the siege ofTroy.