OCR Output CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 411 • armies, to quit the colours, and leave the camp in a'boily, in our assemblies, are listened to with attention;'nay, whatever a tribune of the people is pleased to ad-'* ranee, were it to betray your country, and sink the com-- 'monwealtli, hini you accustom yourselves to hear with • patience. Infatuated with the charms of the power of'your tribunes, you suffer the grossest crimes to ly con- • cealed under it. It only remains for them to carry'-the same spirit of revolt into the camp, which they are • labouring to foment in your assemblies, and by their'seditious harangues, corrupt the army, and teach them'to be disobedient to their officers. For such now is the'complexion of liberty at Rome, that to disregard the • senate, the magistrates, the laws, the customs of our an-.'cestors, the regulations of the fathers, and all military • discipline whatever, passes for spirit'.' CHAP. VII. The works of Veii in flames ;— repaired by the Romans. —Extraordinary unanimity between the Orders. was already a match for the tribunes in theirown assemblies, when the news of a loss at Veii, whichnobody could have dreamed, would have produced suchan effect, all at once turned the scale entirely in his fa­vour, cemented more strongly the orders of the state, andinspired them with new ardour for pushing the siegewith more vigour.than ever. . For when they had raised a mount * near the townand had only to fix the galleries to the walls; as theRomans were more intent on carrying on their works byday, than guarding them in the night, a port was open­ed all of a sudden, whence multitudes sallied out armedwith lighted torches, and set fire to the works. In an in­stant, these works, which had taken so long a time in theconstruction, were all in flames; and numbers, who en­deavoured to extinguish them, lost their labour, and theirlives into the bargain, either by the fire, or the sword. * The Agger was made of fascines, stones and earth, composedof balisteri crossing each other in form of a Lattice; its heightwas shun of the watls, as it had wooden towers upon it, overtop­pins them.