OCR Output ROMA. 811 ROMA. rr<bt «u sppmached by the Clivcs Publicu'8,'■ul, want lav at the northern extremity of theIrnitjne, near the I'orta Trigemina; but its situa--1 onnnt be accurately inferred from this circum-'m Tte Clivua Pnblicius, made, or rathereiaua widened and paved, by the aedilea L. andI 1'itbcii Malleoli, wu the main road leading up» bal (Festus, p. 238; Varr. L.L. v. § 158;rat -I •/. 5.) Canina places the temple near theturn af & Sabiaa, where there are traces of someneat building (Indkxuione, p. 536). This is onetie temple* mentioned as having been rebuilttsfustus (Mm. Ancyr. tab. iv.)Fma toe document last quoted it would appear thatm wu a Templs of Jititer on the Aventino;d its eiiatence is alio testified by the Fasti Ami-•mmi (Id. Aug. kkh. wn. waxak. vortvmno. a narrow).); but we do not find it mentioned int minor. The passage just quoted likewise pointsawWy to a aeeeUnm or Aha or VoitTUMXus,■cb the Fajti Capnmici mention as being in thereturn Jfajam. The Temple or Minkrva, also'»i in the Mmt. Ancynumm as having beeneared by Augustas, is better known, and seems to»t ban m existence at all events as early as the«a Punic War. since on account of some versesf t Lrvitn Andronicus bad written to be sung inaVratiea of tiie better success of the war, thisfit was appointed as a place in which scribes,« apwars porta were then called, and actorsn*i meet to offer gifts in honour of Livius.■tea, p. 333.) From an imperfect inscriptiontsar, axxix. 5) it would appear that the temple• war tiie Armihistrium, and indeed it is namedwith it in the Xutitia.a part of the Avenline railed " Saxim,""Sun Hxcklm" (Cic. Dem. 53), on whichat* was related to have stood when he took thearea, winch Bust therefore be considered asE*al with, or rather perhaps as the highest and'< cpiruuus part of, the place ctdlcd Kemuria,r.seqtirntlr on the very summit of the hill,re Oral (Fast. t. 148, seq.):— * in terra Diva csnenda Bona est at bare natiTa, loco res nomina fecit,Ai rWfcarit Saxum; {tars buna montis ea est. lias spat wa* erected a Temple ok the Bona, s» Ovid proceeds to say 14 leniter acclivi jugo."t express-ion jngvm, we may conclude that it"i' the middle of tiie hill; but Hadrian removedtr.Vm B.-nae Deae transtulit," Spart. llailr.east plaeed ft under tiie hill; whence it sub-early obtained the name of Templum BonaoSibwaxoraate. and now stood in the 12thas. or Patcina Publics, where it is mentioned in•>*axaa. probably under the SK. side of the: for jt legend of Hercules, connected Bar rites of the Bona Dea, see Propertius (v.4 atarrutatat ( I 12). we rind a Temple of Li sa and onetsooed on tl>e Aventine. The formermm M satt to be ctmfounded with the temple ofl as rtasarn baa done (Beschr. iii. p. 412),we ftaat it mefiti<e>ed as a substantive temple•Tsl asxtlaora. (Lir. xL 2; Aur. Vict. Kir. 111.f-mf_ Pi mtm Prid. Kal Apr. "Lunae in- Bgswl in the Caprnn., ^mifmi.and- it find, airier Id. Aug., "Dianse in Aven-i |t m si salt It atuod on the side next the[ Ti, Tkju*uc ot Libkrtas was founded by T. Sempronius Gracchus, the father of the conquerorof Benevenlnm; the latter caused a picture repre­senting his victory to be placed in the temple. (Liv.xxiv. 16.) Some difficulty has been occasioned bythe manner in which the restoration of this templeby Augustus is mentioned in the MtmvinentumAncyranum, namely, " Aedes Minervae et JunonisReginae et Jovis Libertatis in Aventino (feci)"(tab. iv. 1. 6). In the Greek translation of thisrecord, discovered in the temple at Ancyra, andcommunicated by Hamilton (Researches in AsiaMm. ii. n. 102), the words "Jovis Libertatis " arerendered Aibs "EAeoflfptoi/, whence Franz assumedthat the Latin text was corrupt, and that we oughtto read " Jovis Liberatoris." (Gerhard's Archuobtg.Zeitung, no. ii. p. 25.) But there is no mention ofany such temple at Rome, though Jupiter was cer­tainly worshipped there under the title of Liberator(see the section on the Circus Maximus); whilstthe existence of a temple of Libertas on the Aven­tine is attested not only by the passage just citedfrom Livy, but also by Paulus' Diaconus. (* Liber­tatis templum in Aventino fucrat constrnctum,"p. 121.) Hence it seems most probable that theGreek translation is erroneous, and that the reading"Jovis Libertatis" is really correct, the copulabeing omitted, as is sometimes the case ; for ex­ample, in the instance "Honoris Virtutis," forHonoris et Virtutis, &c. And thus, in like man­ner, we find a temple of Jupiter Libertas indi­cated in inscriptions belonging to municipal townsof Italy (v. Orell. Inter, no. 1249, 1282; cf.Becker, Handb. Nachtriigc, p. 721; Zumpt, tMon. Ancyr. Commentar. p. 69). Another ques­tion concerning this Templum Libertatis, namely,whether there was an Atrium Libertatis con­nected with it, has occasioned much discussion.The Atrium Libertatis mentioned by Cicero (ad A U.iv. 16), tho situation of which we have examined ina preceding section, could not possibly have been onthe Aventine j yet the existence of a second oneadjoining the temple of Libertas on that hill hasbeen sometimes assumed, chiefly from Martial (xii.3). The question turns on the point whether thewords " Domus alta Remi," in that epigram, neces­sarily mean the Aventine; for our own part wethink they do not. The question, however, is some­what long; and they who would examine it moreminutely may refer to Becker (Handb. p 458, seq.;Urlichs, Horn. Titpogr.p.3\, seq.; Becker, Anhcort,p. 25, seq.; Canina, Indicazitme, p. 536, seq.; Ur­lichs, Anttcttrt, p. 5, seq.) As the Basis Capilulina names among the Viciof the 13th Region, a Vici'S Finn and a Vicus For-tunak Di biae, we may perhaps assume that therewere temples to thoBe deities on or near the Aven­tine; but nothing further is known inspecting them.The Notitia mentions on the Aventine, " ThermaeSirianae et Decianae." Theformerof these bathsseem to have been built by Trajan, and dedicated inthe name of his friend Licinius Sura, to whom hewas partly indebted for the empire. (" Hie ob hono-rem Surac, cujus studio imperiuni arripuerat. lavacracondidit," Aur. Vict. Kpit. 13: cf. Dion Cass, lxviii.15; Spart. yloVi. 2, seq.) The dwelling of Snrawas on that side of the Aventine which faced theCircus Maximus, and probably, as we have said,near the temple of Diana: — "Quique vidct propius Magni certamina ("irciLaudat Aventinae vicinus Sura Dianae." (Mart. vi. 64. 12.)