OCR Output B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 157 and compassionate. Such persons were ashamed, out of aselfish concern for themselves, entirely to abandon theirfriends, when their menial servants, no longer able to en­dure the groans and lamentations of the dying, had beencompelled to fly from such a weight of calamity. But thoseespecially, who had safely gone through it, took pity on thedying and the sick, because they knew by experience whatit really was, and were now secure in themselves; for itnever seized any one a second time so as to be mortal. Suchwere looked upon as quite happy by others, and were them­selves at first overjoyed in their late escape, and the ground­less hope that hereafter no distemper would prove fatal tothem. Beside this reigning calamity, the general removalfrom the country into the city was a heavy grievance, moreparticularly to those who had been necessitated to come thi­ther. For as they had no houses, but dwelled all the sum­mer season in booths, where there was scarce room tobreathe, the pestilence destroyed with the utmost disorder,so that they lay together in heaps, the dying upon the dead,and the dead upon the dying. Some were tumbling oneover another in the public streets, or lay expiring roundabout every fountain, whither they had crept to assuagetheir immoderate thirst. The temples, in which they haderected tents for their reception, were full of the bodies ofthose who had expired there. For in a calamity so outra­geously violent, and universal despair, things sacred andholy had quite lost their distinction. Nay, all regulationsobserved before in matters of sepulture were quite con­founded, since every one buried wherever he could find aplace. Some, whose sepulchres were already filled by thenumbers which had perished in their own families, wereshamefully compelled to seize those of others. They sur­prised on a sudden the piles which others had built for theirown friends, and burned their dead upon them ; and some,whilst one body was burning on a pile, tossed another bodvthey had dragged thither upon it, and went their way.Vol. I. 2 L