OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 209 tomb of St. Peter. The ample measure of the exarchate'might comprise all the provinces of Italy which hadobeyed the emperor and his vicegerent; but its strictand proper limits were included in the territories ofRavenna, Bologna, and Ferrara; its inseparable de­pendency was the Pentapolis, which stretched along theHadriatic from Rimini to Ancona,and advanced into themidland country as far as the ridges of the Appennine.In this transaction, the ambition and avarice of the popeshad been severely condemned. Perhaps the humilityof a Christian priest should have rejected an earthlykingdom, which it was not easy for him to govern with­out renouncing the virtues of his profession. Perhapsa faithful subject, or a generous enemy, would havebeen less impatient to divide the spoils of the barbarian;and if the emperor had intrusted Stephen to solicit inhis name the restitution of the exarchate, I will notabsolve the pope from the reproach of treachery andfalsehood. But in the rigid interpretation of the laws,every one may accept, without injury, whatever hisbenefactor can bestow without injustice. The Greekemperor had abdicated or forfeited his right to the ex­archate; and the sword of Astolphus was broken by thestronger sword of the Carlovingian. It was not in thecause of the Iconoclast that Pepin had exposed his per­son and army in a double expedition beyond the Alps;he possessed, and might lawfully alienate, his conquests;and to the importunities of the Greeks, he piously re­plied, that no human consideration should tempt him toresume the gift which he had conferred on the Romanpontiff for the remission of his sins, and the salvation ofhis soul. The splendid donation was granted in supremeand absolute dominion, and the world beheld for thefirst time a Christian bishop invested with the preroga­ 'Between the exorbitant claims, and narrow concessions, of interest and preju­dice, from which even Muratori (Antiquitat. torn. 1. p. 63—68.) is not exempt, Ihave been guided, in the limits of the exarchate and Pentapolis, by the DissertatioChorographica Italia Medii JEvi, torn. 10. p. 160—180. VOL. VI. P