OCR Output A.D. 16.] 93 OF TACITUS. denee of Tiberius, he had beforehand disclosed thenature of his business. The emperor refused to grantan interview, and yet encouraged the informer, wil­ling through the same channel to receive further in­telligence. Libo in the mean time was raised to thedignity of prsefor. He was a frequent guest at theimperial table. In those convivial moments, Tiberiusnever betrayed a symptom of suspicion. With gentleexpressions, and looks of kindness, that master ofdissimulation knew how to hide the malice of hisheart. The follies of Libo's conduct might have beenchecked in the beginning; but Tiberius chose to col­lect materials for a future day. It happened at lastthat one Junius, who pretended to raise the dead bymagic incantations, was appointed, at the request ofLibo, to exhibit the wonders of his art. This manhastened with the secret to Fulcinius Trio, at thattime a noted informer, who possessed dangerous ta­lents, and by any arts, however pernicious, wished toraiso himself into public notice. Libo was cited toappear. Trio applied to the consuls for a solemnhearing before the senate. The fathers were convenedto deliberate, as the summons informed them, onmatters of moment, and a charge of the blackest na­ture. XXIX. Libo changed his dress. In a mourninggarb he went from house to house, attended by a fe­male train of the first distinction. He importuned hisfriends, and among them hoped to find some onewilling to undertake his defence. His application waswithout effect. His friends deserted him, with differ­ent excuses; but all from the common motive of fear.On the day of trial, sinking under his distress, andfaint with real or pretended illness, he was carried ina litter to the senate-house. He entered the court,supported by his brother. At the sight of the empe­ror, he stretched forth his hands in the manner of asupplicant, and in a pathetic tone endeavoured toconciliate favour. Tiberius viewed him with,a rigidand inflexible countenance. He then proceeded toopen the charge, stating the particulars, and the names