OCR Output 258 livy. the coasts. First, the transports from ^Egimurus, aban­doned by the mariners, who effected their escape, weretowed to Carthage; afterwards those from the baths. 35. The ambassadors had not yet returned fromRome, nor was it known what were the sentiments ofthe Roman senate concerning war or peace; neitherwas the term of the truce expired. Scipio, on thisaccount, more highly resented the injury offered bythose who had petitioned for peace and the truce;and, considering it as breaking off the negotiations,and an infraction of the truce, he instantly sent Mar­cus Baebius, Lucius Sergius, and Lucius Fabius, am­bassadors to Carthage. These, having narrowly escapedsuffering violence from the populace, and still appre­hending themselves exposed to danger, applied to themagistrates, who had protected them from ill treat­ment, for a guard of ships on their return. Two tri­remes were assigned them; which, as soon as theycame to the river Bagrada, from whence there was aview of the Roman camp, returned to Carthage. Therewas a Carthaginian fleet stationed at Utica, from whichtwo quadriremes were sent, either in consequence ofprivate orders from Carthage, or Hasdrubal, who com­manded that fleet, (for the infraction was unauthorisedby the public,) and which suddenly attacked the Ro­man quinquereme as it came round the promontory.The Carthaginian vessels attempted to strike the Ro­man with their prows, but which they could not effectby reason of its activity, nor could the fighting menleap from those lower ships into the higher ones. Thequinquereme was gallantly defended, as long as wea­pons lasted. These, however, spent, there was nothingthat could save them but the land being near, and themultitude which poured out from the camp to thecoast. They therefore pressed forward, using theirutmost efforts with their oars; and running on shore,the men escaped, but the ship was intirely lost. Afterthe truce had been thus broken, by outrage after out­rage, Laelius and Fulvius arrived from Rome, with theCarthaginian ambassadors. To these Scipio declared,