OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 505 begotten son, what was to happen long afterward to the greatson and seed of Abraham, the Messiah, the beloved and the" only begotten of the Father, whose day Abraham saw byfaith beforehand, and rejoiced to see it," l viz., that he, "bythe determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God should becrucified, and slain"2 as a sacrifice, and should be raisedagain the third day, and this at Jerusalem also; and that,in the mean time, God would accept of the sacrifices of rams,and the like animals, at the same city Jerusalem, that onecannot easily avoid the application. This seems the reasonwhy Abraham was obliged to go to the land of Moriah, orJerusalem; and why it is noted, that it was the third day3.that he came to the place, which implies that the return back,after the slaying of the sacrifice, would naturally be the thirdday also ; and why this sacrifice was not Ishmael the son ofthe flesh only, but Isaac the son by promise, the beloved sonof Abraham, and why Isaac was styled the only son, or onlybegotten son* of Abraham, though he had Ishmael besides;and why Isaac himself was to bear the wood5 on which hewas to be sacrificed ; and why the place was no other thanthe land of Moriah,6 or vision, i. e., most probable a placewhere the Shecinah or Messiah had been seen, and God byhim worshipped, even before the days of Abraham, and wherelately lived, and perhaps now lived, Melehisedeck, the grandtype of the Messiah (who might then possibly be present atthe sacrifice,) and why this sacrifice was to be offered eitheron the mountain called afterward distinctly Moriah, wherethe temple stood, and where all the Mosaic sacrifices were' afterward to be offered, as Josephus 7 and the generality sup­pose, or, perhaps, as others suppose, that where the Messiahhimself was to be offered, its neighbor mount Calvary. Thisseems also the reason why the ram was substituted as avicarious sacrifice instead of Isaac. These circumstancesseem to me very peculiar and extraordinary, and to renderthe present hypothesis extremely probable. Nor, perhaps,did St. Clement mean any thing else, when, in his forecited iJohn, viii. 56. 1 Acts, ii. 23. 3Gen. xxii. 2, 4. * Heb. xi. 17.5 Gen. xxii. 6. 'John, xix. 17. ' Antiq. B. i. cap. xiii. sect. 2. IV. —43