OCR Output an. 29.] 553 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. friends; and put the army in array, and rodealong with Caesar, and had a hundred andfifty men, well appointed in all respects, aftera rich and sumptuous manner, for the betterreception of him and his friends. He alsoprovided them with what they should want,as they passed over the arid desert: inso­much that they lacked neither wine, norwater: which last the soldiers stood in thegreatest need of. And besides, he pre­sented Caesar with eight hundred talents,and procured to himself the good will ofthem all: because he was assisting to themin a much greater and more splendid de­gree than the kingdom he had obtainedcould afford. By this means he more andmore demonstrated to Caesar the firmnessof his friendship, and his readiness to assisthim. And what was of the greatest advan­tage to him was, that his liberality came ata seasonable time also. And when they re­turned again out of Egypt, his assistanceswere no way inferior to the good offices hehad formerly done them. CHAP. VII. OF THE EXECUTION OF SOHEMUS, AND MARIAMNE; ALEX­ANDRA, AND COSTOBARUS J HEROD'S MOST INTIMATEFRIENDS; AND THE SONS OF BABA. HOWEVER, when Herod came into hiskingdom again, he found his house allin disorder, and his wife Mariamne, and hermother Alexandra, very uneasy; for theynaturally supposed, that they were not putinto that fortress [Alexandrium] for the se­curity of their persons; but as into a gar­rison for their imprisonment; and that theyhad no power over any thing either ofothers or of their own affairs. And Mari­amne supposing that the king's love to herwas rather pretended, as advantageous tohimself, than real; she looked on it as falla­cious. She also was grieved that he wouldnot allow her any hopes of surviving him, ifhe should come to any harm himself. Shealso recollected what commands he had for­merly given to Joseph; insomuch that sheendeavoured to please her keepers, and es­pecially Sohemus; as well apprised how allwas in his power. Sohemus was at firstfaithful to Herod, and neglected none of thethings he had given him in charge: but when the women, by kind words, and liberalpresents, had gained his affections over tothem, he was by degrees overcome, and atlength discovered to them all the king's in­junctions: and this on that account princi­pally, that he did not so much as hope hewould come back with the same authorityhe had before. So that he thought he shouldescape any danger from him, and supposedthat he did hereby much gratify the women,who were likely not to be overlooked in thesettling of the government: nay, that theywould be able to make him ample recom­pense: since they must either reign them­selves, or be very near to him that shouldreign. He had a farther ground of hopealso, that though Herod should have all thesuccess he could wish for, and should returnagain, he could not contradict his wife, inwhat she desired: for he knew that theking's fondness for her was inexpressible.These were the motives that drew Sohemusto discover what injunctions had been givenhim. So Mariamne was greatly displeasedto hear, that there was no end of the dan­gers she was under from Herod; and wasgreatly uneasy at it; and wished that hemight obtain no favours from Caesar; andesteemed it an almost insupportable task tolive with him any longer. And this she af­terwards openly declared, without conceal­ing her resentments. And now Herod sailed home with joy, atthe unexpected good success he had had:and went first of all to his wife, and told herthe good news, as preferring her before therest, on account of his fondness for her, andthe intimacy there had been between them,and saluted her. But so it happened, thatas he told her of the good success he hadhad, she was so far from rejoicing, that sherather was sorry for it. Nor was she ableto conceal her resentments: but, dependingon her dignity, and the nobility of her birth,in return for his salutations, she gave agroan, and declared evidently that she ra­ther grieved than rejoiced at his success:and this till Herod was disturbed at her, asaffording him not only marks of her suspi­cion, but evident signs of her dissatisfaction.This much troubled him, to see that thissurprising hatred of his wife to him was notconcealed, but open. And he took this so