OCR Output LKVOXI. LIBANUS MONS. 173 LEVCKXI (Aevwoi), a tribe mentioned by Ptolemy(ii. 11. § 35) as dwelling in the central parts oftbe island of Scandis. No further particulars areknown about them. (Coinp. Zeuss, die Deitfschen,p. 158.) [L.S.] LEUPHAXA (Afi^dVa), a town mentioned byPtolemy (ii. 11. § 27) in the north of Germany, ontiie west of the Kibe ; it probably occupied the siteof the modern Luneburg. (Wilhelm, Oermunien,p. 161.) [L.S.1 LEUTERNIA or LEUTARN1A. [Lkuca.] LEUTUOANUM, a place in Pannonia Superior,12 Roman miles east of Mnrsa, on the road fromAijuileia to Sirmium (/*. Hiervs. p. 561); hence itwrms to be identical with the place culled Ad La-bores in the Peuting. Table. [L. S.] LEXOA'II (Anfcfeioi, Strab. p. 189; AtfovGtot,Ptol. ii. 8. § 2), a Celtic people, on the coast ofGallia, immediately west of the mouth of the Seine.When the Veneti and their neighbours were pre­paring for Caesar's attack (b. c. 56), they appliedfor aid to the Osismi, Lexovii, Xaunetes, and other**.(B. G. iii. 9, 11.) Caesar sent Sabinus against thet'rwlli. Curiosolites, and Lexovii, to prevent theirjaning the Veneti. A few days after Sabinusreached the country of the Unelli, the Aulerci Eu-bunmces and tiie Lexovii murdered their council ortenate, as Caesar calls it, because they were againstthe war; and they joined Viridovix, the chief of theUnelli. The Gallic confederates were defeated bySabinus, and compelled to surrender. (Ii, G. ill. 17—19.) The Lexovii took part in the great risingof tbe Galli against Caesar (». c. 52); but theirforce was only 3000 men. (B. G. vii. 75.) Wakke-naer supposes that the territory of the Lexovii ofCaesar and Ptolemy comprised both the territoriesof Luievx and Bayeux, though there was a peoplein Bayeux named Baiocasscs; and he further supposesthat these Baiocasses and the Yiducasses were de­pendent on the Lexovii, and within their territoriallimit*. [Bajocas&ks.] The capital of the Lexovii,or Ciritas Lexoviorum, as it is called in the Notit.I'ruvinc., is Lisieux, in the French department ofCalradas. [NovioMaGCS.] The country of theLexovii was one of the parts of Gallia from whichthe passage to Britain was made. [G. L.] L1BA (Ai€a). a small place in Mesopotamia,mentioned by Polybius (v. 51) on the march ofAntbcbus. It was probably situated on the roadbetween Nisi bis and the Tigris. [V.] LIBA'KUS MONS (Aifrwos fyos), in Hebrew Lf.basox (|133?), a celebrated mountain range ofSvria, or, as St. Jerome truly terms it, " rnons Phoe-nkes altissiuius." (Onomast. t. r.) Its name is derived from the root 1??, "to be white;" as St•lerome also remarks, •' Libanns XtvKaafxbs, id est,'earhior' interpretatur" {Adv. Jovinianum, torn. iv.cfll 172): and white it is, " both in summer andwinter; in the former season on account of the naturalciiV-ur of the barren rock, and in the latter by reasonof the snow," which indeed *' remains in some places,war the'rammit, throughout the year." (Irby andMangles, Oct. 30 and Nov. 1.) Allusion is madet" it* snows in Jer. xviii. 14; and it is described byTVttus as "tantos inter ardores opacum fidumqueniTibtu." (fJist. v, 6.) Lebanon is much celebratedbith in sacred and classical writers, and, in parti-ruitr, much of the sublime imagery of the prophets*f tbe Old Testament is borrowed from this moun­ts (e.g. Ptal xxix. 5, 6, civ. 16—18; Cant. iv. 8, 11, 15, v. 15; ha. ii. 13; Ifos. xiv. 5—7; Zeck.xi. 1,2). It is, however, chiefly celebrated in sacredhistory for its forests of cedar and fir, from whichthe temple of Solomon was constructed and adorned.(I Kings, v.; 2 Ckron. ii.) It is clear from thesacred history that Mount Lebanon was, in Solomon'stime, subject to the kings of Tyre; but at a laterperiod we find the king of Assyria felling its timberfor his military engines (ha. xiv. 8, xxxvii. 24;Ezek. xxsi. 16); and Diodurus Siculus relates thatAntigonus, having collected from all quarters hewersof wood, and sawyers, and shipbuilders, broughtdown timber from Libanus to the sea, to build him­self a navy. Some idea of the extent of its pineforests may be formed from the fact recorded by thishistorian, that 8000 men were employed in fellingand sawing it, and 1000 beasts in transporting it toits destination. He correctly describes the mountainas extending along the coast of Tripoli and Byblius,as far as Sidon, abounding in cedars, and firs, andcypresses, of marvellous size and beauty (xix. 58);and it is singular that the other classical geogra­phers were wholly mistaken as to the course of thisremarkable mountain chain, both Ptolemy (v. 15)and Strabo (xvL p. 755) representing the two almostparallel ranges of Libanus and Antilibanus as com­mencing near the sea and running from west to east,in the direction of Damascus,—Libanus on the northand Antilibanus on the south; and it is remarkablethat the Septuagint translators, apparently underthe same erroneous idea, frequently translate theHebrew word Lebanon by *Avrt\i€avos (e. g. JJeut.i. 7, iii. 25, xi. 24; Josh. i. 4, ix. 1). Their relativeposition is correctly stated by Eusebius and St.Jerome (#. p. Antilibanus), who place Antilibanusto the east of Libanus and in the vicinity of Da­mascus. [Antiubanus.] Lebanon itself may be said to commence on thenorth of the river Leontes (el-Kdtimiyeh), betweenTyre and Sidon; it follows the course of the coast ofthe Mediterranean towards the north, which in someplaces washes its base, and in others is separatedfrom it by a plain varying in extent: the mountainattains its highest elevation (nearly 12,000 feet)about half way between Beirut and Tripoli. It isnow called by various names, after the tribes bywhom it is peopled,— the southern part being in­habited by the Metowili; to the north of whom, asfar as the road from Beirut to Damascus, are theDruses; the Maronites occupying the northern parts,and in particular the district called Kesrawan.(Robinson, Bibl. Res. vol. iii. p. 459; Burckhardt,Syria, pp. 182—209.) It still answers, in part atleast, to the description of St. Jerome, being " fer-tilissimus et virens," though it can be no longer said**densissimis arborum comis protegitur" (Comment,in Osee, c. xiv.): and again,—" Nihil Libano in terrarepromissionis excelsiua est, nee nemorosius atquecondensius." (Comment, in Zacharian, c. xi.) It isnow ehiefiy fruitful in vines and mulberry trees; theformer celebrated from of old (Hot. xiv. 7), thelatter introduced with the cultivation of the silk­worm in comparatively modern times. Its extensivepine forests have entirely disappeared, or are nowrepresented by small clusters of firs of no imposinggrowth, scattered over the mountain in those partswhere the soft sandstone (here of a reddish hue)comes out from between the Jura limestone, whichis the prevailing formation of the mountain. Thecedars so renowned in ancient times, and known tobe tbe patriarchs of all of their species now existing.