OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. 2C5 they first began to be frightened when, the raft beingset loose, they were separated from the rest, and draggedinto the deep: then pressing close to one another, asthose on the outside drew back from the water, theyoccasioned a good deal of disorder; but terrified byseeing the water on every side of them, they soon be-. came quiet. Some, indeed, becoming outrageous, tum­bled into the river, but their own weight renderingthem steady, though their riders were thrown off, theycautiously searched out the shallow parts, and camesafe to land. 29. While thus employed in transporting the ele­phants, Hannibal had despatched five hundred Numi-dian horsemen towards the camp of the Romans, todiscover where they lay, what were their numbers,and, if possible, what their designs. This detachmentof cavalry was met by the three hundred Roman horsesent, as mentioned above, from the mouth of the Rhone.A battle ensued, more furious than common, betweensuch small numbers ; for, besides many wounds, therewas a great loss of lives, nearly equal on both sides,and it was not until the Romans were thoroughlyfatigued that the dismay and flight of the Numidiansyielded them the victory. On the side of the conquerorsfell one hundred and sixty, not all Romans however,some of them being Gauls ;' and of the vanquished morethan two hundred. As this prelude, and omen like­wise of the war, portended to the Romans a favorableissue on the whole, so did it a victory not unbloody,nor to be purchased without a dangerous struggle.After this action the parties returned to their re­spective commanders. On the one hand, Scipio couldform no determination, farther than to regulate bismeasures by the designs and proceedings of the enemy ;and, on the other, Hannibal was in doubt whether heshould continue his march into Italy without intermis­sion, or come to an engagement with the first Romanarmy that threw itself in his way. However, from thethoughts of an immediate engagement he was divertedby the arrival of ambassadors from the Boians, and of