OCR Output lxvi NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. by whose example and authority they had been se­duced, the name os Herodians. But their numberswere so inconsiderable, and their duration so short,that Joseph us has not thought them worthy of hisnotice. See Prideaux's Connection, vol. ii. p. 285. [5] Cicero pro Flacco, c. 23. [6] Philo de Legatione. Augustus left a foun­dation for a perpetual sacrifice. Yet he approvedof the neglect which his grandson Caius expressedtowards the temple of Jerusalem. See Sueton. inAugust, c. 93. and Casaubon's notes on that pas­sage. [7] See, in particular, Joseph. Antiquitat. xvii. 6.xviii. 6. andde Bel. Judaic, i. 33. and ii. 9. [8] jufli a Caio Cæsare, effigiem ejus in templolocare arma potius surapsere. Tacit. Hist. v. 9.Philo and Josephus gave a very circumstantial, but* very rhetorical account of this transaction, whichexceedingly perplexed the governor of Syria. Atthe first mention of this idolatrous proposal, KingAgrippa fainted way; and did not recover hisfenses till the third day. [9] For the enumeration of the Syrian andArabian deities, it may be observed, that Miltonhas comprized in one hundred and thirty very beau-tifal lines, the two large and learned syntagmas,which Sclden had composed on that abstruse sub­ject. [10] All that relates to the Jewish proselytes hasbeen very ably treated by Basnage, Hist, des Juifs,1. vi. c. 6, 7. [11] See Exod. xxiv. 23. Deut. xvi. 16. thecommentators, and a very sensible note in the Uni­versal History, vol. i. p. 603. ediu foL [12] When Pompey, using or abusing the rightof conquest, entered into the Holy of Holies, it wasobserved with amazement, "Nulla intus Deumeffigie, vacuam scdem et inania arcana." Tacit.Hist. v. 9. It was a popular saying, with regard tothe Jews, Nil præter nubes et cœli numen adorant. [■?] A second kind of circumcision was inflictedon a Samaritan or Egyptian proselyte. Tbe sullenindifference of the Talmudists, with respect to theconversion of strangers, may be seen in Basnage,Histoire des Jui£» 1. vi. c. 6. [14] These arguments were urged with great in­genuity by the Jew Orobio, and refuted with equalingenuity and candour by the Christian Limborch.See the Arnica Collatio (it well deserves that name), or account of the dispute between them. [i^] Jesus - - - circumcisus erat; cibis uteba-tur Judaicis; vestitu firaili; purgatos fcabie mit-tebat ad sacerdotes; Pafcbata et aliot dies festoj re­ligiose observabat: Si quos fanavit fabatho, ostenditnon tantura ex lege, fed et exceptis sententiis taliaopera fabatho non interdicts. Grotius de VeritateReligionis Christiana;, 1. v. c. 7. A little afterwards(c. I2.>, he expatiates on the condescension of theapostles. [16] Pæne omnes Christum Deum sub Iegis ob-fervatione credebant. Sulpicuis Severus, ii. jt.See Eusebius, Hist. Ecclesiact. 1. iv. c. 5. [17] Mofheim de Rebus Christianis ante^Con-stantinum Magnum, p. 153. In this masterly per­formance, which I (hall often have occasion to quote,he enters much more fully into the state of the pri­mitive church, than he has an opportunity of doingin his General History. [18] Eusebius, 1. iii.c. 5. Le Clerc Hist. Eccle-siast p. 605. During this occasional absence, thebishop and church of Pella still retained the title ofJerusalem. In the same manner, the Roman pon­tiffs resided seventy years at Avignon; and the pa­triarchs of Alexandria have long' since transferredtheir episcopal seat to Cairo. [19] Dion Caffius, 1. lxix. The exile of theJewish nation from Jerusalem is attested by AristoofPella (apnd.Euseb. 1. iv. c. 6 ), and is mentioned byseveral ecclesiaflical writers; though some of themtoo hastily extend this interdiction to tbe wholecountry of Palestine. [20] Eusebius, 1. iv. e. 6. Sulpicins Severns,ii. 31. By comparing their unsatisfactory accounts,Mofheim (p. 32-, &c.) has drawn out a very dis­tinct representation of the manner and motives ofthis revolution. [21] Le Clerc (Hist. EcclesiafL p, 477, etc..)seems to have collected from Eusebius, Jerome, Epi-phanius, and other writers, all the principal circum­stances that relate to the Nazarenes or Ebionites.The nature of their opinion soon divided them into a stricter