OCR Output TBESPfiOTI.THESSALIA. 1165 Kiaiarari rising here. I^ftlte noticed the.....ations of an oblong or ova] enclosure, built ofrry (olid masonry of it regular kind, about half a-If in circumference; but he observes tliat all the:jir*nt ground to the SE. is covered, like the:tnor of the fortress, with ancient foundations,[aared stones, and other renviins, proving thatthe enclosure was the only fortified part of themany of the public and private edifices stooditiiout the walls. The site of some of the ancientTple» ia probably marked by the churches, whirh«•-do fragments of architraves, columns, and otherfr.ent remain* (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii.479, aeq.; Dodwell, vol. i. p. 253.) COIX OF THESP1AB. TtTESPROTI, THESPF.O'TIA. [ErF.mcs.]THESSA'LIA (9»ffffa\Ia or 0«ttoA/o: Elk.- ta'.t or ©rrraAiSt, Thessalns, fern. ©f<r<roAi'y. • TToAif, Thessalis: Adj. QetrffaXiK^s, 0*TTaA»t(iyf -sdims, Tbessalius), the largest political divi.a of Greece, was in its widest extent the wholeii 'rj lying N. of Thermopylae as far as theuubunian mountains, and bounded upon the W. the range of Pindus. But the name of Thcs-ly was more specifically applied to the greatsia, by far the widest and largest in all Greece,rinwd by the four great mountain barriers of Pin-i«, Othrra, Osa and Pelion. and the Cambunian unZaitu. From Mount Pindus,—the Apennines Uck-bone of Greece, — which separates Thes-!t from Epeirus, two Urge arms branch off towards * eastern sea, running parallel to one another atf distance of 60 miles. The northern, called tho< .! nr.lari mountains, forms the boundary betweent -Jv and Macedonia, and terminates in the Bum-: of Olympus, which is the highest mountain in Greece [OLVMrt's]. The southern arm, namedseparates the plain of Thessaly from Malis,d reaches the sea Ivtween the Malian and Pnga-■sn gulfs [Otiikys], The fourth barrier is thei ce of mountains, first called Ossa and afterwards1 -<n, which run along the coast of Thessaly upon - K . oesrly parallel to the range of Pindus [OssA;cum]. The plain of Thessaly, which is thus'losed by natural ramparts, is broken only at theE. corner by the celebrated vale of Tempe, which(antes Ossa from Olympus, and is the only way entering Greece from the N., except by a passt «s the Cambunian mountains. This plain, winch :r i.ned by the river Peneius and its ailluents, isjj to have been originally a vast lake, the waters which were afterwards carried off through theiW of Tempe by some sudden convulsion, which■ft tha rocks of the valley asunder. (Herod, vii.rV.) [Tioiit] The lakes of Nessonis and Boe-■ •. which are connected by a channel, were sup-»«l by Strabo (ix. p. 430) to have been the re-tmn this vast lake. In addition to this plainare two other districts included under the ge- - ruinc of Thessaly, of which one is the long and narrow slip of rocky coast, called Magnesia, extendingfrom the vale of Tempe to the gulf of Pagasae, andlying between Mounts Ossa and Pelion and the sea;while the other, known under the name of Malis,is quite distinct in its physical features from the restof Thessaly, being a long narrow valley betweenMounts Olhrys and Oeta, through which the riverSpercheius flows into the Maliac gulf. The plain of Thessaly properly consists of twoplains, which received in antiquity the name of1'pper and Lower Thessaly; the Upper, as in similarcases, meaning the country near Mount Pindus mastdistant from the sea, and the Lower the country-near the Thermaic gulf. (Strab. ix. pp. 430, 43".)These two plains are separated by a range of hills be­tween the lakes Nessonis and Boebeis on the one hand,and the river Enipcus on the other. Lower Thes­saly, which constituted the ancient division Pelas-giotis, extends from Mounts TiUrus and Ossa on theN. to Mount Othrys and the shores of the Pagasaeangulf on the S. Its chief town w as Larissa. UpperThessaly, which corresponded to the ancient divi­sions Thessaliotig and llistiaeotis, of which the chiefcity was Pharsalus, stretches from Aeginium in theN. to Thautnaci in the S.. a distance of at least50 miles in a straight line. The road from Ther­mopylae into Upper Thessaly entered the plain atThautnaci, which was situated at the pass calledCoeU, where the traveller came in sight of a plaiuresembling a vast sea. (Liv. xxxii. 4.) [Thai - MACI.] The river Peneius, now called the SeUamvria orSnlambria (2aAaii6V>hu, ZaAa>tTpl<u), rises at theNW. extremity of Thessaly, and is composed ofstreams collected in the valleys of Mount Pindusand the offshoots of the Cambunian mountains. Atfirst it flows through a contracted valley till itreaches the perpendicular rocks, named the Melarn,upon the summits of which several monasteries areperched. Below this spot, and near the town ofAeginium or StafftU. the valley opens out into thevast plain of Upper Thessaly, and the river flows ina general southerly direction. At Tricca, or Trik-kala, the Peneius makes a bend to the E., andshortly afterwards reaches the lowest point in theplain of Upper Thessaly, where it receives within avery short space many of its tributaries. Nextit passes through a valley formed by a range ofhills, of which those upon the right divide theplains of Upper and Lower Thessaly. It thenemerges into the plain a few miles westward ofLarissa; after passing which city it makes a suddenbend to the X., and flows through the vale of Tempeto the sea. Although the Peneius drains thegreater part of Thessaly, and receives many tribu­taries, it is in the greater part of its coursea shallow and sluggish river, except after the melt­ing of the snows, when it sometimes floods thesurrounding plain. Hence on either side of theriver there is frequently a wide gravelly uncultivablespace, described by Strabo as rrora^ioaAiio-Tot (ix. p.430; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 420).When the river is swollen in the spring, a channelnear Larissa conducts the superfluous waters intothe Karatjafr or Mat>po\l/u»i), the ancient Nessonis;and when this basin is filled, another channel conveysthe waters into the lake of Karln, the ancientBoebeis. (Leake, iv. p. 403.) In the lower part ofits course, after leaving larissa. the Peneius flowswith more lapidity, and is full of small vortices,which may have suggested to Horoer the epithet