OCR Output 443 ROMAN EMPIRE. sovereign in arms, he sought the aid of a foreign power;and his rash invitation of the Moors and Arabs producedthe calamities of eight hundred years. In his epistles,or in a personal interview, he revealed the wealth andnakedness of his country; the weakness of an unpopularprince; the degeneracy of an effeminate people. TheGoths were no longer the victorious barbarians who hadhumbled the pride of Rome, despoiled the queen ofnations, and penetrated from the Danube to the Atlanticocean. Secluded from the world by the Pyrenneanmountains, the successors of Alaric had slumbered in along peace; the walls of the cities were mouldered intodust: the youth had abandoned the exercise of arms;and the presumption of their ancient renown would ex­pose them in a field of battle to the first assault of theinvaders. The ambitious Saracen was fired by the easeand importance of the attempt; but the execution wasdelayed till he had consulted the commander of thefaithful; and his messenger returned with the permis­sion of Walid to annex the unknown kingdoms of thewest to the religion and throne of the caliphs. In hisresidence of Tangier, Musa, with secrecy and caution,continued his correspondence and hastened his prepa­rations. But the remorse of the conspirators was sooth­ed by the fallacious assurance, that he should contenthimself with the glory and spoil, without aspiring toestablish the Moslems beyond the sea that separatesAfrica from Europe.' 1 The orientals, Elmacin, Abulpharagius, Abulfeda, pass over the conquest ofSpain in silence, or with a single word. The text of Novairi, and the other Ara­bian writers, is represented, though with some foreign alloy, by M. de Cardooue.(Hist, de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne sous la Domination des Arabee, Paris, 1765,three vols. in duodecimo, torn. 1.p. 55—114.) and more concisely by M. deGuignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 34?—350.) The librarian of the Escurialhas not satisfied my hopes: yet he appears to have searched with diligence hisbroken materials; and the history of the conquest is illustrated by some valuablefragments of the genuine Raiis,(who wrote at Corduba, A.H. 300.) of Ben Hazil,&c. See Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. ?. p. 32. 105, 106. 182. 352. 319—•333.On this occasion, the industry of Pagi has been aided by the Arabic learningof his friend the abb£ de Longuerue, and to their joint labours I am deeplyindebted.