OCR Output 140 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV. at Betriacum in Gall, Otho gained the advantage on the firstday, but on the second day Vitellius's soldiers had the victory;and, after much slaughter, Otho slew himself, when he hadheard of this defeat at Brixa, and after he had managed thepublic affairs three months' and two days. Otho's army alsocame over to Vitellius's generals, and he came himself downto Rome with his army. But in the mean time Vespasianremoved from Caesarea, on the fifth day of the month Desius[Sivan,] and marched against those places of Judea whichwere not yet overthrown. So he went up to the mountainouscountry, and took those two toparchies that were called theGophnitick and Acrabattene toparchies. After which he tookBethel and Ephraim, two small cities ; and when he had putgarrisons into them, he rode as far as Jerusalem, in whichmarch he took many prisoners and many captives; but Cerealis,one of his commanders, took a body of horsemen and foot­men, and laid waste that part of Idumea which was calledthe Upper Idumea, and attacked Caphethra, which pretendedto be a small city, and took it at the first onset, and burnt itdown. He also attacked Capharabim, and laid siege to it,for it had a very strong wall; and when he expected to spenda long time in that siege, those that were within opened theirgates on the sudden, and came to beg pardon, and surrenderthemselves up to him. When Cerealis had conquered themhe went to Hebron, another very ancient city. I have toldyou already, that this city is situated in a mountainous coun­try, not far off Jerusalem : and when he had broken into thecity by force, what multitude and young men were left thereinhe slew, and burnt down the city; so that as now all thoplaces were taken, excepting Hcrodium, and Masada, andMacherus, which were in the possession of the robbers; soJerusalem was what the Romans at present aimed at. 10. And now as soon as Simon had set his wife free, andrecovered her from the zealots, he returned back to the re­mainders of Idumea; and driving the nation all before himfrom all quarters, he compelled a great number of them to 1 Suetonius differs hardly three days from Josephus, and says Othopcrishedon the 95th day of his reign. In Othon. See the note on ch. xi. seet. 4.