OCR Output GOLD RINGS. 23 Luxury, in this, as in every other case, produced variouschanges, by adding gems of exquisite brilliancy, and by loadingthe fingers with quite a large fortune, as I shall mention in thebook on gems; afterwards by chasing various figures on the rings,so that they were sometimes valued for the material, and at othertimes for the workmanship. There were indeed some gems, whichit would have been thought absolute sacrilege to use as seals, andin order to shew that they were not intended to be employed inthis way, they were set plain. There are also some persons, whowill not have gold at the part which touches the finger, consider­ing gold of less value than many of the stones that are in use. There are on the contrary, others who do not admit of the useof any gems, but seal with the gold itself; a custom first adoptedin the time of the emperor Claudius Cassar. In these days thereare slaves who have the iron ring surrounded with gold, whileothers have the ring entirely of gold. The name given to these ringsshows that this licence originated in Samothrace. It was at first the custom to wear rings upon one finger only,that next to the little finger; as we see it in the statues of Numaand Servius Tullius. They were then put on the finger next tothe thumb, even in the statues of the gods, and afterwards it wasthought proper to give them also to the little finger. The Gaulsand the Britons are said to have used the middle finger. At presentthis finger alone is exempted, while all the rest are loaded, eveneach of the smaller joints having little rings put on them. Thereare some persons who heap three rings on the little finger alone,while there are others who put only one upon it, thus marking thisas the marking finger.5 The seal itself, however, being carefullypreserved, was brought out as if from a sacred place, like some­thing very rare, and not to be debased by common use, and thecircumstance of having a single ring only on the little finger, wasmade an ostentatious mark of the possession of a store of othervaluable articles. Some persons now make a boast of the weightof their rings; by others it is considered a kind of labour tocarry more rings than one. Others again, from their anxietyfor their gems, think it safer to have them set in some sub­stance lighter than gold, as less likely to be injured by a fall.Others inclose poison under the gems, as was the case with thatfirst of Grecian orators, Demosthenes; and thus employ their 5 "Quo signantem signant."