OCR Output 86 LIVY. of consular dignity should not be ashamed to exhibitsuch mockery of religion in the face of day! andshould have recourse to such shallow artifices to pal­liate their breach of faith, as not even children wouldallow themselves ! Go, lictor, take off the bonds fromthose Romans. Let no one hinder them to departwhen they think proper.' Accordingly they returnedunhurt from Caudium to the Roman camp, having ac­quitted certainly their own faith, and perhaps that ofthe public. " 12. The Samnites finding that instead of peace whichflattered their pride, the war was revived, and withthe utmost inveteracy, not only felt in their minds aforeboding of all the consequences which ensued, butsaw them in a manner before their eyes. They now,too late, and in vain, applauded the plans of old Pon­tius, by blundering between which they had exchangeda certainty of victory for an uncertain peace ; andwere now to fight against men, whom they might haveeither put out of the way for ever as enemies, or en­gaged for ever as friends. And such was the changewhich had taken place in men's minds, since the Cau-dine peace, even before any trial of strength had shownan advantage on either side, that Postumius, by sur­rendering himself, had acquired greater renown amongthe Romans than Pontius among the Samnites by hisbloodless victory. The Romans considered their beingat liberty to make war as certain victory; while theSamnites supposed the Romans victorious the momentthey resumed their arms. Meanwhile, the Satricansrevolted to the Samnites, who attacked the colony ofFregellae, by a sudden surprise in the night, accom­panied, as it appears, by the Satricans. From thattime until day their mutual fears kept both partiesquiet: the daylight was the signal for battle, whichthe Fregellans contrived to maintain for a considerabletime without loss of ground ; for they fought for theirreligion and liberty ; and the multitude who were unfitto bear arms assisted them from the tops of thehouses. At length, a stratagem gave the advantage to