OCR Output 16 ESSAY ON THE 10. Zeugma approaches quite nearly to brachylogy: The follow­ing are examples: Hist. II., 80, Caesarem (vocare) et omnia prin-eipatus vocabula cumulare. See C. Roth, in Agr. Exc. XXXII. There is a species of the same zeugma in that custom, surprising toour ears, and scarcely imitable in our language, of uniting the sampverb or word in one sense with one, and in another sense with anotherpart of the sentence. Pindar took the lead in this : IXtv i' ohop&ovSlav TapBlvov rt avvcwar, he slew CEnomaus and (married) the virgin;and in like manner Soph. Trach., 353. Like this is Hist. I., 6*7,Plus sanguinis ac praedae Caecina hausit; Hist. II., 32, Britan-nicum militem hoste et mari distineri; Agr. 25, Silvarum et mon-tium profunda; Agr. 45, Nos Maurici Rusticique vuus, nos inno-centi sanguine Senecio perfudit. 11. Another means of conciseness is that grammatical figurewhich we, at this day, are beginning to call prccgnantia—a wordquite recently formed and a barbarous substantive—but yet appro­priate, and withal necessary, which the more strict, if they choose,may call structura praegnans. Very often a secondary idea liesconcealed in some noun or verb, unseen indeed, but breathing likethe foetus in the womb, and frequently also very forcible. I couldwish that some one of the great grammarians had defined, in an ap­propriate treatise, the compass and limits of this figure, that I mighthave some authority to follow; but now each, according to his ownhumor, is accustomed to use a vague and ■fcfined word ; a privi­lege which I shall claim for myself. BoUTnouns and verbs, andlikewise adverbs, are employed prcegnanter. Thus he says cupidofor pecuniae cupido, in Ann. XII., 57; Hist. I., 66; and on the otherhandpecunia in the same sense, Hist. III., 41. The following comeunder the same class, Hist. I., 85, Occulto habitu, scil. animi; for itought not to be understood of the assumption of a false dress; Hist.3., 19, Cumulos, scil. corporum; Hist. IV., 86, Modesliae imagine inaltitudinem (silentii) conditus; Hist. IV., 72, Stare integram sedem,scil. belli; Dial. 6, Publico, scil. judicio; Ingenium = commentumingenii, in Hist. HI., 28; Gaudio fungi = gaudii signification orgratulalione, Hist. II., 55; Reposcentibus prospera, i. e., prosperorumrationem, Hist. III., 13 ; Qui naves, qui classem, qui mare expecta-bant, Agr. 18, i. e., aggressionem per mare apertum ac non perfretum. In like manner with these words: Hist. I., 76, mansit, scil.in fide; A'gr. 45, perfudit, scil. horrore; Agr. 25, complecti, scil.bello, as, Hist. I., 36, Agr. 18, praesumpscre, scil. spe. Frequently also adverbs or ablatives, datives or accusatives usedike adverbs, bear some attributive, either adjective or participle, as itwere, concealed in them. This is evidently contrary to Cicero's