OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. J27 Severus, that from all the legions of the frontiers, the soldiers mostdistinguished for strength, valour, and fidelity, should be occasionallydraughted and promoted, as an honour and reward, into the moreeligible service of the guards 67. By this new institution, the Italianyouth were diverted from the exercise of arms, and the capital wasterrified by the strange aspect and manners of a multitude of bar­barians. But Severus flattered himself, that the legions would con­sider the chosen Prætorians as the representatives of the whole mili­tary order; and that the present aid of fifty thousand men, superiorin arms and appointments to any force that could be brought intothe field against them, would for ever crush the hopes of rebellion,and secure the empire to himself and his posterity. The command of these favoured and formidable troops soon be- The office ofcame the first office of the empire. As the government degene- præfect.rated into military despotism, the Prætorian præfect, who in his originhad been a simple captain of the guards, was placed, not only at thehead of the army, but of the finances, and even of the law. Inevery department of administration, he represented the person,and exercised the authority, of the emperor. The first præfect whoenjoyed and abused this immense power was Plautianus, the favou­rite minister of Severus. His reign lasted above ten years, till themarriage of his daughter with the eldest son of the emperor, whichseemed to assure his fortune, proved the occasion of his ruin68. Theanimosities of the palace, by irritating the ambition and alarmingthe fears of Plautianus, threatened to produce a revolution, andobliged the emperor, who still loved him, to consent with reluctanceto his death 69. After the fall of Plautianus, an eminent lawyer,the celebrated Papinian, was appointed to execute the motley officeof Prætorian præfect. Till the reign of Severus, the virtue and even the good fense of The scnatethe emperors had been distinguished by their zeal or affected reve- oppressed by military d«s- rence for the senate, and by a tender regard to the nice frame of civil potism. policy