OCR Output 178 THE DECLINE AND FALL Oppreffion of As ionpr a9 the cruelty of Maximin was confined to the illustrious the provin- 0 cci. senators, or even to the bold adventurers, who in the court or army expose themselves to the caprice of fortune, the body of the peopleviewed their sufferings with indifference, or perhaps with pleasure.But the tyrant's avarice, stimulated by the insatiate desires of thesoldiers, at length attacked the public property. Every city of theempire was possessed of an independent revenue, destined to pur-chafe corn for the multitude, and to supply the expences of thegames and entertainments. By a single act of authority, the wholemass of wealth was at once confiscated for the use of the Imperialtreasury. The temples were stripped of their most valuable offer­ings of gold and silver, and the statues of gods, heroes, and empe-lors were melted down and coined into money. These impious or­ders could not be executed without tumults and massacres, as in manyplaces the people chose rather to die in the defence of their altars,than to behold in the midst of peace their cities exposed to the ra­pine and cruelty of war. The soldiers themselves, among whomthis sacrilegious plunder was distributed, received it with a blush;and, hardened as they were in acts of violence, they dreaded the juftreproaches of their friends and relations. Throughout the Romanworld a general cry of indignation was heard, imploring vengeanceon the common enemy of human kind; and at length, by an act ofprivate oppreslion, a peaceful and unarmed province was driven intorebellion against him ''.Revolt in The procurator of Africa was a servant worthy of such a master,A. D.' 237. who considered the fines and confiscations of the nobles as one ofApnI* the most fruitful branches of the Imperial revenue. An iniquitoussentence had been pronounced against some opulent youths of thatcountry, the execution of which would have stripped them of farthe greater part of their patrimony. In this extremity, a resolutionthat must either complete or prevent their ruin, was dictated by despair. 1