OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 223 of loving with too fond a passion. I shall be scarcelypermitted to accuse the ambition of a conqueror; but ina day of equal retribution, the sons of his brother Car*loman, the Merovingian princes of Aquitain, and the fourthousand five hundred Saxons who were beheaded on thesame spot, would have something to allege against thejustice and humanity of Charlemagne. His treatmentof the vanquished Saxonsf was an abuse of the right ofconquest; his laws were not less sanguinary than hisarms, and in the discussion of his motives, whatever issubstracted from bigotry must be imputed to temper.The sedentary reader is amazed by his incessant activityof mind and body; and his subjects and enemies werenotless astonished at his sudden presence, at the momentwhen they believed him at the most distant extremity ofthe empire; neither peace nor war, nor summer nor win­ter, were a season of repose: and our fancy cannot easilyreconcile the annals of his reign with the geography ofhis expeditions. But this activity was a national ratherthan a personal virtue; the vagrant life of a Frank wasspent in the chase, in pilgrimage, in military adventures;and the journeys of Charlemagne were distinguishedonly by a more numerous train and a more importantpurpose. His military renown must be tried by thescrutiny of his troops, his enemies, and his actions.Alexander conquered with the arms of Philip, but theitvo heroes who preceded Charlemagne, bequeathed himtheir name, their examples, and the companions of theirvictories. At the head of his veteran and superior armies,he oppressed the savage or degenerate nations, who wereincapable of confederating for their common safety: nordid he ever encounter an equal antagonist in numbers, eels, without excepting his own wife (c. 19- p. 98—100, cum Notis Schmincke.)The husband most have been too strong for the historian. 1 Besides the massacres and transmigrations, the pain of death was pronouncedagainst the following crimes.—1. The refusal of baptisrn. 2. The false pretence ofbaptisrn. 3. A relapse to idolatry. 4. The murder of a priest or bishop. 5. Humansacrifices. 6. Eating meat in Lent. But every crime might be expiated by bap-tism or penance: (Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 241—247. )and the Christian Saxons becamethe friends and equals of the Franks. (Struv. Corpus Hist. Germanicae, p. 133.)