OCR Output 456 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. presently fled into that wilderness, which wasnearest to the city. And when they werecome to the lake called Asphar, they abodethere. But when Bacchides was sensiblethat they were in a low state, and were inthat place, he hastened to fall upon themwith all his forces: and pitching his campbeyond Jordan he recruited his army. Butwhen Jonathan knew that Bacchides wascoming upon him, he sent his brother John,who was also called Gaddis, to the NabateanArabs, that he might deposit his baggagewith them, until the battle with Bacchidesshould be over. For they were the Jews'friends. But the sons of Ambri laid an am­bush for John from the city Medaba, andseized upon him, and upon those that werewith him, and plundered all that they hadwith them. They also slew John and all hiscompanions. However they were sufficientlypunished for what they now did by John'sbrethren, as we shall relate presently. When Bacchides knew that Jonathan hadpitched his camp among the lakes of Jordan,he observed when their sabbath day came,and then assaulted him: as supposing thathe would not fight, because of the law forresting on that day. But he exhorted hiscompanions to fight; and told them, thattheir lives were at stake, since they wereencompassed by the river, and by their ene­mies, and had no way to escape: for thattheir enemies pressed upon them before, andthe river was behind them. So after he hadprayed to God to give them the victory, hejoined battle with the enemy, and overthrewmany: and as he saw Bacchides coming upboldly to him, he stretched out his right handto smite him: but the other foreseeing andavoiding his stroke, Jonathan, with his com­panions, leaped into the river and swam overit; and by that means escaped beyond Jor­dan: while the enemy did not pass over thatriver: but Bacchides returned presently tothe citadel at Jerusalem; having lost abouttwo *thousand of his army. He also fortifiedmany cities of Judea, whose walls had beendemolished, Jericho, Emmaus, Bethoron,Bethel, Timna, Pharatho, Tecoa, and Gaza-ra; and built towers in every one of thesecities, and encompassed them with strong walls, that were very large also: and putgarrisons into them, that they might issue outof them, and do mischief to the Jews. Healso fortified the citadel of Jerusalem morethan all the rest. Moreover he took the sonsof the principal Jews as pledges; and shutthem up in the citadel, and in that mannerguarded it. About the same time one came to Jonathan,and to his brother Simon, and told them, thatthe sons of Ambri were celebrating a mar­riage, and bringing the bride, who was thedaughter of one of the illustrious men amongthe Arabians, from the city Gabatha; andthat the damsel was to be conducted withpomp, and splendour, and much riches. SoJonathan and Simon thinking this appearedto be the fittest time for them to avenge thedeath of their brother; and that they hadforces sufficient for receiving satisfaction fromthem for his death, they made haste to Me­daba; and lay in wait among the mountainsfor the coming of their enemies. And assoon as they saw them conducting the virgin,and her bridegroom, and such a great com­pany of their friends with them, as was to beexpected at this wedding, they sallied out oftheir ambush, and slew them all; and tooktheir ornaments, and all the prey that thenfollowed them; and so returned, and receivedthis satisfaction for their brother John fromthe sons of Ambri. For as well those sonsthemselves, as their friends, and wives, andchildren that followed them, perished; beingin number about four hundred. Simon and Jonathan then returned to thelakes of the river, and abode there. ButBacchides, when he had secured all Judeawith his garrisons, returned to the king. Andthen it was that the affairs of Judea werequiet for two year9.t But when the desert­ers, and the wicked saw that Jonathan andthose that were with him lived in the countryvery quietly, by reason of the peace, theysent to king Demetrius; and excited him tosend Bacchides to seize upon Jonathan:which they said, was to be done without anytrouble, and in one night's time: and that ifthey fell upon them before they were aware,they might slay them all. So the king sentBacchides: who when he was come into Ju­ * One thousand, 1 Mace. ix. 43. t An. 159, and 158, B. C. X