OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 30. been permitted to mingle with the benefactors of man­kind, if an Italian hermit had not been witness in a visionto the damnation of Theodoric,q whose soul was plunged,by the ministers of divine vengeance, into the volcanoof Lipari, one of the flaming mouths of the infernalworld/ i CHAP. XL. Elevation of Jnstin the elder.—Reign of Justinian.—I. The Empress Theodora.—II.Factions of the circus,and sedition of Constantinople.—111. Trade and manufactureof silk.—IV. Finances and taxes.—V. Edifices of Justinian.—Church of St. Sophia.—Fortifications and frontiers of the eastern empire.—Abolition of the schools ofAthens, and the consulship of Rome. The emperor Justinian was born* near the ruins of Birth of theSardica (the modern Sophia), of an obscure raceb of bar- JSun.barians,0 the inhabitants of a wild and desolate country,A- d-488- . M»J 5, or to which the names of Dardania, of Dacia, and of Bui- a. d 483,garia, have been successively applied. His elevation was M*3 l'prepared by the adventurous spirit of his uncle Justin,who, with two other peasants of the same village, de­serted, for the profession of arms, the more useful em­ployment of husbandmen or shepherds.*1 On foot, witha scanty provision of biscuit in their knapsacks, thethree youths followed the high road of Constantinople,and were soon enrolled, for their strength and stature, 1 This legend is related by Gregory I. (Dialog. 4. 36.) and approved by Baronius;(A. D. 526. no. 28.) and both the pope and cardinal are grave doctors, sufficient toestablish a probable opinion. r Theodnric himself, or rather Cassiodorius, had described in tragic strains thevolcanps of Lipari (Clnver. Sicilia. p. 406—410.) and Vesuvius. (4. 50.) a There is some difficulty in the date of his birth; (Ludewig in Vit. Justiniani,p. 125.)nbne in the place—the district Bederiana—the village Tauresium, which heafterward decorated with his name and splendour. (D'Anville, Hist, de l'Acad. &c.torn. 31. p. 287. 292.) b The names of these Dardanian peasants are Gothic, and almost English: Justi­nian is a translation of Mjjraurfu (ujrright); his father Sebatius (in Grreco-barbaroualanguage stipes,) was styled in his village htock (Stock); his mother Bigleniza wasaoflened into Vigilantia. c Ludewig (p. 127—135.) attempts to justify the Anician name of Justinian andTheodora, and to connect them with a family, from which the house of Austria hasbeen derived. d See the anecdotes of Procopius, (c. 6.) with the notes of N. Alemannus. TheSjatirist would not have sunk, in the vaguo and decent appellation of yttcpyoc, the(JouzoXo; and <rv$t(So; of Zouaras. Yet why are those names disgraceful ?—and whatGerman baron would not be proud to descend from the Enmssns of the Odyssey?