OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE jtws. 29 / ed, for the good counsel he had given them, and how he perish足ed after a most severe and violent manner for the good deedshis father had done to Jehoash. 4. However, it was not long before the king suffered punish足ment for his transgression; for when Hazael, king of Syria,made an irruption into his country, and when he had overthrownGath, and spoiled it, he made an expedition against Jerusalem:upon which Jehoash was afraid, and emptied all the treasures ofGod, and of the kings [before him], and took down the giftsthat had been dedicated, [in the temple], and sent them to theking of Syria, and procured so much by them, that he was notbesieged, nor his kingdom quite endangered, but Hazael was in足duced by the greatness of the sum of money not to bring his ar足my against Jerusalem: yet Jehoash fell into a severe distempter,and was set upon by his friends, in order to revenge the death ofZachariah the son of Jehoiada. These laid snares for the kingand slew him. He was indeed buried in Jerusalem, but not inthe royal sepulchres of his forefathers, because of his impiety;He lived forty-seven years, and Amaziah his son succeeded himin the kingdom. 5. In the one and twentieth year of the reign of Jehoash, Je-hoahaz, the son of Jehu, took the government of the Israelites inSamaria, and held it seventeen years. He did not [properly]imitate his father, but was guilty of as wicked practices as thosethat first had God in contempt: but the king of Syria broughthim low, and by an expedition against him did so greatly reducehis forces, that there remained no more of so great an army thanten thousand armed men, and fifty horsemen. He also tookaway from him his great cities, and many of them also, anddestroyed his army. And these were the things that the peopleof Israel suffered, according to the prophecy of Elisha, when heforetold that Hazael would kill his master, and reign over the ,Syrians and Damascenes. But when Jehoahaz was under such!unavoidable miseries, he had recourse to prayer and supplicationto God, and besought him to deliver him out of the hands ofHazael, and not overlook him, and give him up into his hands.Accordingly, God accepted of his repentance instead of virtue,and being desirous rather to admonish those that might repent,and not to determine that they should be utterly destroyed, hegranted him deliverance from wars and dangers. So the countryhaving obtained peace, returned again to its former condition,and flourished as before. 6. Now after the death of Jehoahaz, his son Joash took thekingdom, in the thirty-seventh year of Jehoash, the king of thetribe of Judak. This Joash then took the kingdom of Israel inSamaria, for he had the same name with the king of Jerusalem,