OCR Output 20 GOLD RINGS. the custom, seems to have done it secretly, putting the ring on theleft hand, as it were concealing it; for if it had been clearlyregarded as an honour, it would have been more conspicuous onthe right hand. It may indeed be said, that they were worn onthe left hand, in order that the right might be left more at libertyfor the use of offensive weapons; yet we may remark, that the freeuse of the left hand, with which the shield is held, is as necessaryas the right. We learn also from Homer, that men wore orna­ments of gold in their hair: it does not appear whether this customoriginated with the women. 5. OF THE QUANTITY OF GOLD AMONG THE ANCIENTS. For a long time the quantity of gold in Rome was but verysmall. It is certain, that when peace was purchased from theGauls, after they had captured the city, no more than 1,000 lbs.weight of gold could be raised. I am indeed not ignorant of thefact, that M. Crassus, in his and Pompey's second consulship, em­bezzled 2,000 lbs. weight of gold, which he took from the throneof Jupiter Capitolinus, where it had been deposited by Camillus,8and from this circumstance many persons have supposed, that2,000 lbs. weight had been collected by him at the time. But theadditional quantity was the booty of the Gauls, part of which theyhad taken from the temples of the captive city. What happenedto Torquatus proves that the Gauls made use of gold when theywent to battle. We may then conclude, that the ransom offeredto the Gauls, and what belonged to the temples, made up the sumin question, and no more. And this indeed appears to have beenthe meaning of the oracle, when it said, that Jupiter Capitolinushad rendered back double the sum that had been entrusted to him.I may also mention by the way, since I am to resume the subjectof. rings, that the keeper of this treasure being seized, broke thestone of his ring in his mouth, and immediately expired, so thatall farther discovery was rendered impossible. It appears, there­fore, that the quantity of gold in Rome was no more than 2,000lbs. weight, in the year of the city 364, and when, according tothe census, the number of the free-born citizens 9 was 152,573. • See Livy, v. SO; where we are informed that the treasure was first de­posited in the cella, and was afterwards removed to the sella of Jupiter; seenote in Valpy's edit. p. 919. Pliny employs the term solium. » "Capita libera;" the number in the text refers only to the free-bom