OCR Output 8.r>6 kubicow HUAD1TAK. Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 342), reeeieed theirappellation from the Sarmatian " Kaxa."—perhapsthe Yuhja or some other river in their settle*menU. [E.»B. J.] RUADITAE. [Marmarioa, p. 278, a.]RUB I (EtK, 'PvSatrTetvfc, Rubastinus: Jim-o), acity of Apulia, situated on the branch of the AppianWay between Canusia and Butunturn, and about10 miles distant from the sea-coast. It is men­tioned by Horace, as one of tlie places where Mae­cenas and his companion) slept on the journey fromRome to Brundusium. (Hor. Sut. I. 94.) Tlicdistance from Canusium is given as 23 miles in tlieAntonine Itinerary, and 30 in the Jerusalem Itine­rary, which is the more correct, the direct distanceon the map being above 28 miles, (/tin. Ant. p.116; /tin. 1/ter. p. CIO.) Neither Strabo nor Pto­lemy notices the existence of Rubi, but the inhabi­tants are mentioned under the name of Rubustini byPliny, among the municipal towns of Apulia, andthe " Rubustinus Ager" is enumerated in the LiberColoniarum among the lt Civitates Apuliae." (Plin,iii. ll.s.16; Lib. Colon, p. 262.) An inscription alsoattests the municipal rank of llubi in the reign of theyounger Gordian. (Mommsen, /aver. R. N. C24.)The singular ethnic form given by Pliny is confirmedby the evidence of coins which have the nameP\ BA2-TEINAN at full. These coins show also that Rubimust have received a considerable amount of Greekinfluence and cultivation; and this is still moreStrongly confirmed by the discoveries which havebeen recently made by excavations there of numerousworks of Greek art in bronze and terra cotta, as wellas of vast numbers of painted vases, of great varietyan<l beauty. These, however, like all the Othersfound in Apulia and I.ucania, are i>f inferior execu­tion, and show a declining state of art as comparedwith those of Nola or Volci. All these objects haveheen discovered in tombs, and in some instances thewalls of the tombs themselves have been found co­vered with paintings. (Romanelli, vol. u. p. 172;BuUett. A W Inst. A rch. 1829, p. 173, 1834, pp. 36,164, 228,&c.) The modern town of Huvo is still aconsiderable place, with an episcopal see. [E.H.B.] COIN OF RUBI. RUBICON ('PouSIku-v), a small river on the K.coast of Italy, flowing into the Adriatic sea, a lewmiles N. of Atiminum. It was a trifling stream,one of the least considerable of the numerous riversthat in this part of Italy have their rise in theApennines, and discharge their waters into theAdriatic; but it derived some importance from itshaving firmed the boundary between Umbria, or thepart of the Gaulish territory included in that pro­vince, and Cisalpine Gaul, properly so called. Hence,when the limits of Italy were considered to extendonly t<» the frontiers ot Cisalpine Gaul, the Rubiconbecame on this side the northern boundary of Italy.(Strab. v. p. 217; Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Lucan. i. 215.)This was the state of things at the outbreak of theCivil War between Caesar and Pompey: CisalpineGaul was included in the government of the former,and tlie Rubicon was therefore the limit of his pro­vince; it was this which rendered the jwtssage of this trifling stream so momentous in erent, Vt twas, in fact, the declaration of war. Caeaimakes no mention of its passage, and it ato believe that he would have «t out on bisfrom Ravenna without being folly prepared W ai>vanes to Ariminam; but the well-knownhis halt on its banks, his hesitation anddecision, is related in detail by SoeUcda? andlarch, as well as by Lucan, and lu* girenap^s*bial celebrity to the name of the Ruwwa. CfCom 31; Plut Cam. 32; Appian. B. C ilLucan, i. 185, 213—227.) The river isby Cicero a few years later as the frontier ofand M. Antonius was ordered by a decraisenate to withdraw his army across the Cibiese,a proof that he abandoned his desipns i* tbiiah province. (Cic. PhiLxi. 3.) Srrabo rtfllthe Rubicon the limit between Gallia CisalI'mhria; but this seems to have been altdivision of Italy by Augustus; and thnorjalludes to the liubicon as M quondam fini*lie includes Aiiminum and its territory asthe river Crustumius, in the 8thReei«oorCispadana, (Plin. I.e.: PtoL iii. I. §23.)"however, was not forgotten; it Is m| foaTabula, which places it 12 miles from(Tab, Pent,}, and is mentioned by Sidonnaris. (Kp. \. 5.) Hut in the middle agof it seems to have been lost ; even theof Ravenna does not notice it,proximity to his native city. In modern times the identical ion ofbra ted stream lias been tbe subject of ntroversy, and cannot yet be considereddetermined. But Uie question lies withinrow compass. We know with certaintyliubicon was intermediate between ARavenna, and between the rivers SapU(&xitiowed some miles S. of the latter, and tbeor Marecchia, which wa.s immediately t«the former city. Between these two fvtwo streams now enter the Adriaticshort distance of each other. Tbe southese is called the Luso or Ltua, astream, which crosses the hi git-road fromRavenna about 10 miles from tbe f'jnnershort distance further N. the tame roadstream now called Fiutnicino, which ■by the united waters of three small atrents, the most considerable of which i> t(the uppermost of the three); the otherRhjosa or Rvjone, called also, accordingwriters, the Ruyone, and the /Yum, calledPiumicino. These names are thosebest old maps as well as Baden ones. e»-the Atlas of Magini, published in 1620,accordance with the statements of tbeon Italian topography, FLavio BiondoAlberti. Cluverius, however, calls thestream the Rugone, and the ooe wPitafelh. This point is, however. «fportance, if it be certain thai the twounited their waters as they do at thebefore reaching the sea. The qu»tW«between the Luso and the Fmmicmo.being the outlet both of the RmgameUllo. A papal bull, issued in 1756,favour of the Lwoy which has. insince commonly termed the Rubicon^called by the ]>casants on its"But it is evident that , within I