OCR Output 192 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 775. erful combination, Silanus stood alone, obliged, with­out any powers of oratory, to make his own defencewith fear and trembling; a situation that might disarmthe noblest talents. Tiberius helped to increase hisdifficulties. With a stern tone of voice, and a con­tracted brow, he pressed the defendant with suddenquestions, never suffering him to pause a moment,either to repel or elude the charge. Silanus wasobliged to admit several points, rather than seem torefute or baffle the inquiry of the emperor. His veryslaves, to make them competent witnesses, were soldby auction to the public officer; and, to make de­struction sure, Tiberius added the crime of violatedmajesty, that none of the prisoner's family or friendsmight presume to assist in the defence. Silanus de­sired an adjournment of a few days. In thatinterval,abandoning all his hopes, he sent a memorial to Ti­berius, in a style sufficiently humble, but still with thespirit of a man who felt himself oppressed, and daredto speak the language of reproach/ LXVI1I. Tiberius remained inflexible; but, to givethe colour of precedent to his final sentence, he or- 4dcred the proceedings against Volesus Messala whohad also been proconsul of Asia, with the record ofAugustus, and the decree made on that occasion, tobe read. He then collected the votes, beginningwith Lucius Piso. That senator, after some flou­rishes in praise of the emperor's clemency, concluded,that Silanus should be interdicted from fire and wa­ter, and banished to the isle of Gyarus. The fathersconcurred in the same opinion, when Cneius Lentu.lus proposed, by way of mitigation that the estatewhich descended to Silanus from his mother, shouldnot be included in the general forfeiture, but vestedin the grandson. Tiberius agreed to the amendment.The business seemed to be at an end, when CorneliusDolabella rose to show, that his servile spirit had notdeserted him. He launched out into a sharp invec­tive'against the morals of Silanus, grafting on it amotion, that no man of dissolute manners should beeligible to the government of provinces; and of thisincapacity the emperor should be the the sole judge. ,