OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 817 the insolence of the Barbarians, and the servile temper chap.of the tributary Greeks. Lamenting the barren su- XXXIX-perfluity of materials, I have studied to compress thenarrative of these uninteresting transactions: butthe just Nushirvan is still applauded as the model oforiental kings, and the ambition of his grandsonChosroes prepared the revolution of the East, whichwas speedily accomplished by the arms and the reli­gion of the successors of Mahomet. In the useless altercations, that precede and justify Conquest ofthe quarrels of princes, the Greeks and the Barba- NudSvan,rians accused each other of violating the peace which &jD-57°'had been concluded between the two empires aboutfour years before the death of Justinian. The sove­reign of Persia and India aspired to reduce underhis obedience the province of Yemen or ArabiaFelix; the distant land of myrrh and frankincense,which had escaped, rather than opposed, the con­querors of the East. After the defeat of Abrahahunder the walls of Mecca, the discord of his sons andbrothers gave an easy entrance to the Persians: theychased the strangers of Abyssinia beyond the RedSea; and a native prince of the ancient Homeriteswas restored to the throne as the vassal or viceroy ofthe great Nushirvan *. But the nephew of Justiniandeclared his resolution to avenge the injuries of hisChristian ally the prince of Abyssinia, as they sug­gested a decent pretence to discontinue the annualtribute, which was poorly disguised by the name ofpension. The churches of Persarmenia were op­pressed by the intolerant spirit of the Magi; theysecretly invoked the protector of the Christians, andafter the murder of their satraps, the rebels were • D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 477- Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arabum,p. 64, 65. Father Pagi (Critica, tom. ii. p. 646) has proved that after tenyears' peace, the Persian war, which continued twenty years, was renewedA. D. 571. Mahomet was born-A. D. 569, in the year of the elephant, or thedefeat of Abrahah (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, tom. i. p. 89, 90. 98); and thisaccount allows two years for the conquest of Yemen.