OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 227 with the additions of the Netherlands and Spain,as far as the Rhine. II. The Saracens had beenexpelled from France by the grandfather and father ofCharlemagne; but they still possessed the greatest partof SPAIN, from the rock of Gibraltar to the Pyrenees.Amidst their civil divisions, an Arabian emir of Sara-gossa implored his protection in the diet of Paderborn.Charlemagne undertook the expedition, restored theemir, and, without distinction of faith, impartiallycrushed the resistance of the Christians, and rewardedthe obedience and service of the Mahometans. In hisabsence he instituted the Spanish march,'* which ex­tended from the Pyrenees to the river Ebro: Barcelonawas the residence of the French governor: he possessedthe counties of Rousillon and Catalonia; and the infantkingdoms of Navarre and Arragon were subjectto his jurisdiction. III. As king of the Lom­bards, and patrician of Rome, he reigned over thegreatest part of ITALY,' a tract of a thousand milesfrom the Alps to the borders of Calabria. The dutchyof Beneventum, a Lombard fief, had spread, at the ex­pense of the Greeks, over the modern kingdom of Na­ples. But Arrechis, the reigning duke, refused to beincluded in the slavery of his country; assumed the in­dependent title of prince; and opposed his sword tothe Carlovingian monarchy. His defence was firm,his submission was not inglorious, and the emperorwas content with an easy tribute, the demolition of hisfortresses, and the acknowledgment, on his coins, of asupreme lord. The artful flattery of his son Grimoald,added the appellation of father, but he asserted hisdignity with prudence, and Beneventum insensibly i The governors or counts of the Spanish march revolted from Charles dieSimple about the year 900; and a poor pittance, the Rousillon has been recover­ed in 1642 by the kings of France. (Longuerue, Description de la France, torn.1. p. 280—222.) Yet the Rousillon contains oue hundred and eighty-eight thou­sand nine hundred subjects, and annually pays two millions six bundled thousandlines; (Necker, Administration dies Finances, torn. 1. p. STB, 279.) more peopleperhaps, and doubtless more money, than the march of Charlemagne.'Schmidt, Hist, des Atlemands, tern. 2. p. 300, &c. Q2