OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL When Justinian first meditated the conquest of Italy, he sent ambassadors to thekings of the Franks, and adjured them, by the common ties of alliance and religion,to join in the holy enterprise against the Arians. The Goths, as their wants weremore urgent, employed a more effectual mode of persuasion, and vainly strove, bythe gift of lands and money, to purchase the friendship, or at least the neutralityof a light and perfidious nation. (1) But the arms of Belisarius, and the revolt ofthe Italians, had no sooner shaken the Gothic monarchy, than Theodebert of Aus­tralia, the most powerful and warlike of the Merovingian kings, was persuaded tosuccour their distress by an indirect and seasonable aid. Without expecting theconsent of their sovereign, ten thousand Burgundians, his recent subjects, descend­ed from the Alps, and joined the troops which Vitiges had sent to chastise the re­volt of Milan. After an obstinate siege, the capital of Liguria was reduced by fa­mine, but no capitulation could be obtained, except for the safe retreat of the Ro­man garrison. Datius, the orthodox bishop, who had seduced his countrymen torebellion(2) and ruin, escaped to the luxury and honours of the Byzantine court;(3)but the clergy, perhaps the Arian clergy, were slaughtered at the foot of their ownaltars by the defenders of the catholic faith. Three hundred thousand males werereported to be slain;(4) the female sex, and the more precious spoil, was resignedto the Burgundians; and the houses, or at least the walls of Milan, were levelledwith the ground. The Goths, in their last moments, were revenged by the des­truction of a city, second only to Rome in size and opulence, in the splendour of itsbuildings, or the number of its inhabitants; and Belisarius sympathized alone in thefate of his deserted and devoted friends. Encouraged by this successful inroad,Theodebert himself, in the ensuing spring, invaded the plains of Italy with an ar­my of one hundred thousand barbarians. (5) The king, and some chosen followers,were 'mounted on horseback, and armed with lances; the infantry, without bowsor spears, were satisfied with a shield, a sword, and a double-edged battle-axe,which, in their hands, became a deadly and unerring weapon. Italy trembled atthe march of the Franks; and both the Gothic prince and the Roman general, alikeignorant of their designs, solicited, with hope and terror, the friendship of thesedangerous allies. Till he had secured the passage of the Po on the bridge of Pa-via, the grandson of Clovis dissembled his intentions, which he at length declared,by assaulting, almost at the same instant, the hostile camps of the Romans andGoths. Instead of uniting their arms, they fled with equal precipitation; and thefertile, though desolate, provinces of Liguria and JEmilia, were abandoned to a li­centious host of barbarians, whose rage was not mitigated by any thoughts of set­tlement or conquest. Among the cities which they ruined, Genoa, not yet con­structed of marble, is particularly enumerated: and the deaths of thousands, ac­cording to the regular practice of war, appear to have excited less horror thansome idolatrous sacrifices of women and children, which were performed with im­punity in the camp of the most Christian king. If it were not a melancholy truth,that the first and most cruel sufferings must be the lot of the innocent and helpless,<history might exult in the misery of the conquerors, who, in the midst of riches,>were left destitute of bread or wine, reduced to drink the waters of the Po, and to-feed on the flesh of distempered cattle. The dysentery swept away one-third oftheir army; and the clamours of his subjects, who were impatient to pass the Alps,disposed Theodebert to listen with respect to the mild exhortation of Belisarius,The memory of this inglorious and destructive warfare was perpetuated on themedals of Gaul: and Justinian, without unsheathing his sword, assumed the title ofconqueror of the Franks. The Merovingian prince was offended by the vanity ofthe emperor; he affected to pity the fallen fortunes of the Goths; and his insidiousoffer of a federal union was fortified by the promise or menace of descending fromthe Alps at the head of five hundred thousand men. His plans of conquest were (1) This national reproach of perfidy (Procop. Gotli. lib. ii. c. 25.) offends the ear of La Mothe le Vayer(torn. viii. p. 163—165..; who criticises, as if he had not read the Greek historian. (2) Baroaius applauds his treason, and justifies the catholic bishops—qui ne sab heretico principe degantomnem lapidem movant—a useful caution. The more rational Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, torn. v. p. 54.)iiints at the guilt of perjury, and blames at least the imprudence of Datius. (S) St. Datius was more successful against devils than against barbarians. He travelled with a numerousretinue, and occupied at Corinth a large house (Baronius, A. D. 538. Mo. 89, A. D. 539. No. 20.) (4) MupiosJes TpiMKovrz (compare Procopius. Goth. lib. ii. c. 7.21.) Yet such papulation is incredible; und thesecond or third city of Italy need not repine if we only decimate the numbers of the present text. Both Milanand Genoa revived in less than thirty years (Paul Diacoa. de Gestis Langobard, lib. ii. c. 36. (5) Besides Procopius, perhaps too Homan, see the Chronicles of Marius and Marcellinus, Jornandes (inSuccess. Rega. in Muratori, torn. i. p. 241.,) and Gregory of Tours, (lib. iii. c. 32. in torn. ii. of the Historiansof France.) Gregory supposes a defeat of Beluarius, who, in Almoin (de Gejtfs Franc, lib. ii. c 53, in torn,iii. p. 59.,) is^Iain by the Franks.