OCR Output fi2 THE DECLINE AND FALL favour, will have no. attachment, except to the person of theirbenefactor. Cleander, the successor of Perennis, was a Phrygianby birth j of a nation, over whose stubborn, but servile temper,blows only could prevail M« He had been sent from his nativecountry to Rome, in the capacity of a slave. As a slave he en­tered the Imperial palace, rendered himself useful to his masterspassions, and rapidly ascended to the most exalted station which asubject could enjoy. His influence over the mind of Commodus*was much greater than that of his predecessor; for Cleander was.devoid of any ability or virtue which could inspire the emperorHis avarice with envy or distrust. Avarice was the reigning passion of his soul,ajidcrueky. ^ great principle of his administration, 'she rank of Consul,. of Patrician, of Senator, was exposed to publk sale j and it wouldhave been considered as disaffection, if any one had refused to pur­chase these empty and disgraceful honours with the greatest part ofhis fortune v. In the lucrative provincial employments, the mi­nister shared with the governor the spoils of the people. Theexecution of the laws was venal and arbitrary. A wealthy crimi­nal might obtain, not only the reversal of the sentence by which he-was justly condemned; but might likewise inflict whatever punish*roent he pleased on- the accuser, the witnesses, and the judge. By these means, Cleander, in the space of three years, had accumulated more wealth than had ever yet been possessed by any-freedman '*. CotamoduSr was perfectly satisfied with the magni­ficent presents, which the artful courtier laid at hie feet in the mostseasonable moments. To divert the public envy, Cleander, underthe emperor's name, erected baths, porticos, and places of exer­cise, fop the use of the people He flattered himself that theRomans, dazzled and amused by this apparent liberality, wouldbe less affected by the bloody scenes which, were daily exhibited;that they would forget the death of Byrrhus, a senator on whose su­perior merit, the late emperor had bestowed one of his daughters ;. 2 and