OCR Output Ui THE PELOFONNESIAN WA$. B. VI. others of the soldiery who attended him in the expedi­tion, against whom informations had been given thatthey were guilty of impiety in the affair of the Mysteries,and against some of them in that of the Mercuries. For,the Athenians, after the departure of the fleet, continu­ed to make as strict an inquisition as ever into the crimescommitted in regard to the Mysteries, and also in regardto the Mercuries. What fort of persons the informerswere was no part of their concern, but, in the heightof jealousy, giving credit indiscriminately to all,through too great a deference to men of profligate andabandoned lives, they apprehended and threw into prisonthe most worthy citizens of Athens; esteeming it moreprudent by pains and tortures to detect the fact, thanthat a person of irreproachable character, when onceaccused through the villany of an informer, shouldescape without the question. For, the people, havinglearned by tradition how grievous the tyranny of Pisi-strams and his sons became at last; and, what is more,that it was not overthrown by themselves and Har-modius, but by the industry of the Lacedæmoni­ans; lived in a constant <iread of such another usur­pation, and beheld all these incidents now with mostsuspicious eyes. But, in fact, the bold attempt of Har-inodius and Aristogiton, took its rife merely from acompetition in love. The particulars of which I shallhere unfold more largely, to convince the world, thatno other people, no not even the Athenians themselves,have any certain account, either relating to their own,tyrants or the transactions of that period. , , _ The truth is, that Pisistratus dying possessed of thetyranny in a good old age, not Hipparchus (as is gene­rally thought) but Hippias, the eldest of his sons, washis successor in power. Harmodius being at this timein the flower of his youth and beauty, Aristogiton acitizen of Athens, nay a citizen of the middle rank,doated upon and had him in his possession. But, someattempts having been made upon,Harmodius, by Hip-, parchus