OCR Output lii On his Qualifications as a Historian. warm pathetic in the midst of some grand circumstance.The figures in which he most delights, are the Interroga­tion s the Change of number and time; the Hyperbaton, ortransposing and inverting the order of things which seem na­turally united and inseparable ; and above all, the Antithesis.This last he hath fondly used, almost to satiety. Term isnot only opposed to term, but thought to thought, sentence tosentence, and sometimes whole orations to one another, evenwhere the latter speaker cannot possibly be supposed to haveheard the former. A constant adherence to this method car­ries with it the danger of glutting the reader. I am sensiblethere should have been more variety to make the whole quitebeautiful and graceful. As to the fourth constituent of sublimity, which, accord­ing to Longinus, is noble and graceful expression, our au­thor's claim cannot be so well established. Noble undoubt­edly he is, but as for the graceful—the reader may wish hehad been more careful in this particular, and I am sure histranslator wishes it from his heart. For fear of being vul­gar he is too set and solemn; and from the passion to bealways great, he hath lost the air of ease and genteelness.Dionysius of Halicarnassus says he studiously affected hardand obsolete words. But yet the same writer sets him up asthe standard of Attic purity ; nay, hath frequently strength­ened his own style by using the hard and obsolete words ofThucydides. However this be, it is certain Thucydideshath in this respect fallen half-way short: And more so, inthe fifth constituent of sublimity, composition or structureof his periods. He hath no harmony, hath given little orno proof of having a good ear. He is rough, austere ; hisperiods are sometimes a mile long, in which he labourshimself both out of tune and time. I acknowledge his im­perfections, and beg the reader would weigh them and setthem in the balance with his excellencies: He may thenjudge if the latter do not greatly preponderate. He thinksnobly; affects surprisingly ; his expression is noble, but not