OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 333 such as he showed to none of his noble clients—probablynot without the collateral design of thereby administeringan indirect rebuke to the want of energetic character amonghis own partisans. Reinforced thus considerably both in a moral and material Sulla inpoint of view, Sulla and Metellus marched from Apulia Campaniathrough the still insurgent Samnite districts towards Campa- "PP"**"1 °ynia. The main force of the enemy also proceeded thither, an" yciil^o.and it seemed as if the matter must there be brought to adecisive issue. The army of the consul Gains Norbanus wasalready at Capua, where the new colony had just establisheditself with all democratic pomp; the second consular armywas likewise advancing along the Appian road. But, beforeit arrived, Sulla was in front of Norbanus. A last attempt Sulla gainsat mediation, which Sulla made, led only to the arrest of his a Vld£iy.envoys. With fresh indignation his veteran troops threw °™rat °lthemselves on the enemy; their vehement charge down from Mount Ti-Mount Tifata at the first onset broke the enemy drawn fata,up in the plain; with the remnant of his force Norbanusthrew himself into the revolutionary colony of Capua andthe new-burgess town of Neapolis, and allowed himself tobe blockaded there. Sulla's troops, hitherto not withoutapprehension as they compared their weak numbers withthose of the enemy, had b"y this victory gained a full convictionof their military superiority; instead of pausing himself tobesiege the remains of the defeated army, Sulla left thetowns where they were to be invested, and advanced alongthe Appian highway against Teanum, where Scipio was Defection Mposted. To him also, before beginning battle, he made fresh Scipio'sproposals for peace; apparently in good earnest. Scipio, army-weak as he was, entered into them ;' an armistice was con­cluded; between Cales and Teanum the two generals, bothmembers of the same noble gem, both men of culture andrefinement and for many years colleagues in the senate, metin personal conference; they entered upon the severalquestions; they made such progress, that Scipio despatcheda messenger to Capua to procure the opinion of his colleague.Meanwhile the soldiers of the two camps mingled; theSullans, copiously furnished with money by their general,had no great difficulty in persuading the recruits—not tooeager for warfare—over their cups that it was better to havethem as comrades than as foes; in vain Sertorius warned thegeneral to put a stop to this dangerous intercourse. The