OCR Output CHAP. 59. ROMAN HISTORY. 193 encourage the work, every thing slackened that instant.When he was present, all held dpwn their heads, and ashe passed them, they muttered curses against him: hishaughty soul, till now, proof against the popular odium,began to be sometimes affected. Having spent all hisill-nature upon the soldiers t6 no purpose, he said thearmy had heen corrupted by the centurions, whom, inderision, he sometimes called tribunes of the people, andsometimes Voleros. CHAP. LIX. Appius decimates his army for cowardice. A HE Volsci had information of every thing that pas­sed in the camp, for which reason they pressed the Ro­mans mote closely, expecting their army would behaveto Appius, as they had done before to Caeso Fabius. Buttheir hatred to Appius, was much more inveterate thanto Fabius: For the army under Fabius had only resolv­ed not to conquer, hut they carried matters farther, andresolved to be conquered. The moment they were ledon to battle, they shamefully fled back to their camp,and did not stop till they saw the Volscians ready toforce their entrenchments, and making prodigious havockon their rear. Then it was, that they were obliged tofight, to drive the exulting enemy from their lines. Butit was evident, .they meant no more than to save thecamp. To some of them, their defeat and disgrace gavepleasure. Notwithstanding all this, the ferocity of Appius' spiritcontinued inflexible; and being determined to chastisethe whole army without mercy, he summoned an assem­bly. The lieutenant-generals and Tribunes, made hasteto wait on him, and cautioned him, not to make an un­seasonable experiment of his authority, because its wholeforce depended on the consent of those who obey; thatin general, the soldiers refused to attend the assembly,and many of them insisted, that he should decamp fromthe territories of the Volsci. That the victorious enemy,•had a very little before, not only advanced to the gatesof the camp, but made an attack upon their lines; and '