OCR Output an. 1492.] 133 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. give the first fruits to the priests. But whenany one hath done this, and hath brought thetithe of all that he hath, together with thosefirst fruits that are for the Levites, and for thefestivals; and when he is about to go home,let him stand before the holy house, and re­turn thanks to God, that he hath deliveredthem from the injurious treatment they hadin Egypt; and hath given them a good land,and permits them to enjoy the fruits thereof;and when he has openly testified that he hathfully paid the tithes, and other dues, accord­ing to the law of Moses, let him intreat Godthat he will be ever merciful and gracious tohim; and continue to be so to all the Hebrews,both by preserving the good things he hathalready given them, and by adding what isstill in his power to bestow. Let the Hebrews marry, at a proper age,virgins that are free, and born of good parents.And he that does not marry a virgin, let himnot corrupt another man's wife, and marryher; nor grieve her former husband. Norlet free-men marry slaves; although their af­fections should strongly bias any of them so todo: for it is decent, and for the dignity of thepersons themselves, to govern such affections.And farther, no one ought to marry a harlot,whose matrimonial oblations, arising fromprostitution, God will not receive. For bythese means the dispositions of the childrenwill be liberal and virtuous. I mean whenthey are not born of base parents, and of theconjunction of such as marry women that arenot free. If any one has been espoused to awoman as to a virgin, and does not afterwardfind her so to be, let him bring his action, andaccuse her; and let him make use of such in­dications to prove his accusation as he is fur­nished withal. And let the father or the bro­ther of the damsel, or some one that is afterthe nearest kin to her, defend her. And ifthe damsel obtain a sentence in her favour,that she had not been guilty, let her live withher husband that accused her. And let himnot have any farther power at all to put heraway, unless she give him very great occa­sion of suspicion, and such as can no way becontradicted. But for him that brings an ac­cusation and calumny against his wife, in an * These words of Josephus are very like those of thePharisees to our Saviour upon this very subject: Matthew impudent and rash manner, let him be pu­nished by receiving forty stripes save one,and let him pay fifty shekels to her father;but if the damsel be convicted, as havingbeen corrupted, and is one of the commonpeople, let her be stoned; because she didnot preserve her chastity till she were law­fully married; but if she were the daughter ofa priest, let her be burnt alive. If any onehath two wives, and if he greatly respect andbe kind to one of them; either of his affectionto her, or for her beauty, or for some otherreason; while the other is of less esteem withhim; and if the son of her that is beloved bethe younger by birth than another born of theother wife, but endeavours to obtain the rightof primogeniture from his father's kindness tohis mother, and would thereby obtain a doubleportion of his father's substance, (for thatdouble portion is what I have allotted him inthe laws,) let not this be permitted. For itis unjust that he, who is the elder by birth,should be deprived of what is due to him, onthe father's disposition of his estate, becausehis mother was not equally regarded by him.He that hath corrupted a damsel, espousedto another man, in case he had her consent,let both him and her be put to death, for theyare both equally guilty; the man, because hopersuaded the woman willingly to submit toan impure action, and to prefer it to lawfulwedlock; the woman, because she was per­suaded to yield herself to be corrupted, eitherfor pleasure, or for gain. However, if a manmeet with a woman when she is alone, andforce her, where nobody is present to conicto her assistance, let him only be put todeath. Let him that hath corrupted a virgin,not yet espoused, marry her: but if the fatherof the damsel be not willing she should behis wife, let him pay fifty shekels as the priceof her prostitution. He that desires to bedivorced from his wife, for* any cause what­soever; and many such causes happen amongmen, let him in writing give assurance that hewill never use her as nis wife any more; forby this means she may be at liberty to marryanother husband; although before this bill ofdivorce be given, she is not to be permittedso to do. But if she be misused by him also, xix. 3. Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife forevery cause? Kk2