OCR Output A. D. 22.] OF TACITUS. LX. To strengthen the foundation of his ownpower was the constant policy of Tiberius. Intent onthat object, he still preserved the forms of the consti­tution, and amused the senate with a phantom of li­berty. All petitions from the provinces were referredto that assembly. About this time, the right of hav­ing sanctuaries, and of multiplying the number with­out limitation, was assumed by all the cities ofGreece. The temples in that country were crowdedby the most abandoned slaves; debtors screened them­selves from their creditors, and criminals fled fromjustice. The magistrates were no longer able to con­trol a seditious populace, who carried their crimes,under a mask of piety, to the altar of their gods. Anorder was therefore made, that the several citiesshould send their deputies to Rome, with a state oftheir respective claims. Some places, finding theirpretensions brought to the test, thought proper to de­cline the inquiry. The rights of others were foundedon traditional superstition; and superstition was notwilling to renounce her errors. Some of the citiesrelied on the merit of their ancestors in the service ofRome. The business came at length to a hearing. Aday more august and splendid cannot be figured tothe imagination. We now behold a Roman senatesitting in judgment on the grants of the old republic;discussing the treaties and conventions of confederatenations; deliberating on the acts,of kings, while kingswere able to make a stand against the power of Rome;and, above all, reviewing the various systems of reli­gion, which had been for ages established in the be­lief of mankind. These were the important subjects;and to give still greater dignity to the scene, the se­nate met, as was the practice in good times, withauthority to inquire, and liberty to determine. LXI. The case of the Ephesians was the firstbrought forward. It was stated in their behalf, thatDiana and Apollo were not, as generally supposed,born in the ishf of Delos, but in the Ortygian Grove,on the banks of the river Cenchri^, which flows with­in the territories of Ephesus. In that sacred recess,Latona, taking shelter under an olive tree, was deli­