OCR Output 398 [book xr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. dras. He was very skilful in the laws of Mo­ses, and well acquainted with king * Xerxes.He had determined to go up to Jerusalem,and to take with him some of those Jews thatwere in Babylon. And he desired that theking would give him an epistle to the go­vernors of Syria by which they might knowwho he was. Accordingly the king wrote thefollowing epistle to those governors:— "Xerxes, king of kings, to Ezra, the priestand the reader of the divine law, greeting. 1tliiuk it agreeable to that love which 1 bearto mankind, to permit those of the Jewish na­tion that are so disposed, as well as those ofthe priests and Levites, that are in our king­dom, to go together to Jerusalem. Accord­ingly I have given command for that purpose.And let every one that hath a mind, go; ac­cording as it hath seemed good to me, andto my seven counsellors; and this in orderto their review of the affairs of Judea, to seewhether they be agreeable to the law of God.Let them also take with them those presentswhich I and my friends have vowed; with allthat silver and gold that is found in the coun­try of the Babylonians, as dedicated to God;and let all this be carried to Jerusalem forsacrifices. Let it also be lawful for thee andthy brethren to make as many vessels of sil­ver and gold as thou pleasest. Thou shaltalso dedicate those holy vessels which havebeen given thee: and as many more as thouhast a mind to make, and shalt take the ex­penses out of the king's treasury. I havemoreover written to the treasurers of Syriaand Phoenicia, that they take care of thoseaffairs that Esdras the priest and reader ofthe laws of God is sent about. And that Godmay not be angry with me, or with my chil­dren, I grant all that is necessary for sacri­fices to God, according to the law: as far asa hundred cori of wheat. And I enjoin younot to lay any treacherous imposition, or anytributes, upon their priests or Levites, sacredsingers, porters, sacred servants, or scribesof the temple. And do thou, O Esdras, ap­point judges according to the wisdom giventhee of God: and those such as understand the law, that they may judge in all Syria andPhoenicia: and do thou instruct those alsowho are ignorant of it: that if any one ofthy countrymen transgress the law of God,or that of the king, he may be punished; asnot transgressing it out of ignorance, but asone that knows, but boldly despises andcontemns it. And such may be punished bydeath, or by paying fines. Farewell." When Esdras had received this epistle, hewas very joyful; and began to worship God,and confessed that he had been the cause ofthe king's great favour to him; and for thesame reason he gave all the thanks to God.So he read the epistle at Babylon, to thoseJews that were there; but he kept the epistleitself, and sent a copy of it to all those of hisown nation, that were in Media. And whenthese Jews had understood what piety theking had toward God, and what kindness hehad for Esdras, they were all greatly pleased.Nay, many of them took their effects withthem, and came to Babylon; as very desirousof going down to Jerusalem. But then theentire body of the people of Israel remainedin that country. Wherefore there are buttwo tribes in Asia and Europe, subject tothe Romans; while the ten tribes are beyondEuphrates till now; and are an immense mul­titude, and not to be estimated by numbers.Now there came a great number of priests,Levites, porters, sacred singers, and sacredservants to Esdras. So he gathered those thatwere in captivity together beyond Euphrates,and stayed there three days, and ordained afast for them; that they might make theirprayers to God for their preservation; thatthey might suffer no misfortunes by the way;either from their enemies, or from any otherill accident. For Esdras had said beforehandthat he had told the king how God wouldpreserve them; and so he had not thought fitto request that he would send horsemen toconduct them. So when they had finishedtheir prayers, they removed from Euphrates;on the twelfth day of the first month, of theseventh year of the reign of Xerxes; and theycame to Jerusalem on the fifth month of the * That the histories of Ezra or Esdras the scribe, when he came and settled the Jewish commonwealth, after their return from the Babylonish captivity; and of Nehemiab, when he built the walls of Jerusalem, do not belong to Ar- . taxerxes, the son, but to Xerxes the father, as Josephus here rightly places them, contrary to all our other copiesof Ezra and Nehemiah, is largely proved in my LiteralAccomplishment of Scripture Prophecies, Supplement,page 59—75. As also that Daniel's famous seventyweeks take their date, not from the seventh or twen