OCR Output 260 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIIL Gabinius came back being both excluded out of the city, andreceiving none of the money promised, because Aristobulus'soldiers would not permit the agreements to be executed. Atthis Pompey was very angry, and put Aristobulus into prisonand came himself to the city, which was strong on every side,excepting the north, which was not so well fortified, for therewas * a broad and deep ditch that encompassed the city, and in­cluded within the temple, which was itself encompassed aboutwith a very strong stone wall. 2. Now there was a sedition of the men that were within thecity, who did not agree what was to be done in their presentcircumstances, while some thought it best to deliver up the cityto Pompey: but Aristobulus' party exhorted them to shut thegates, because he was kept in prison. Now these prevented theothers and seized upon the temple, and cut oft' the bridge whichreached from it to the city, and prepared themselves to abide asiege; but the others admitted Pompey's army in, and deliveredup both the city and the king's palace to him. So Pompey senthis lieutenant Piso with an army, and placed garrisons both inthe city and in the palace, to secure them, and fortified thehouses that joined to the temple: and all those which were moredistant, and without it. And in the first place, he offered termsof accommodation to those within, but when they would notcomply with what was desired, he encompassed all the placesthereabout with a wall, wherein Hyrcanus did gladly assist himon all occasions, but Pompey pitched his camp within [the wall,]on the north part of the temple, where it was most practicable;but even, on that side there were great towers, and a ditch hadbeen dug, and a deep valley begirt it round about, for on theparts towards the city were precipices, and the bridge on whichPompey had gotten in, was broken down; however, a bank wasraised day by day, with a great deal of labour, while the Ro­mans cut down materials for it from the places round about:And when this bank was sufficiently raised and the ditch filledup, though but poorly, by reason of its immense depth, hebrought his mechanical engines and battering rams from Tyre,and placing them on the bank he battered the temple with thestones that were thrown against it. And had it not been ourpractice, from the days of our forefathers, to rest on the se­ * The particular depth and breadth of this ditch whence the stones for the wallabout the temple were probably taken, are omitted in our copies of Josephus, but setdown by Strabo, B. XVI. p. 763. from whom we learn, that this ditch was CO feetdeep, and 250 feet broad. However, its depth is, in the first section, said by Jose-phus to be immense, which exactly agrees to Strabo's description, and which numberin Strabo are a strong confirmation of the truth of Josephus' description also.