OCR Output 1300 VIA FLAMINIA. VIA FLAMINIA. portion of Gallia Cispadana, which should naturallyhave been included in Ae.milia. [Italia, p. 93.] There is no doubt, from the description of Clau-dian above cited, compared with the narrative inTacitus of the movements of the Vitellian andVespasian armies in a. i>. 69, that the main line ofthe Via Flaminia continued the same throughoutthe Roman Empire, but we find it civen in the Iti­neraries with some deviations. The principal ofthese was between Narnia and Forum Flaminii,where the original road ran direct from Narnia toMevania, while a branch or loop made a circuit byInteramna and Spoletium, which appears to havecome to be as much frequented as the main line, sothat in both the Antonine and Jerusalem Itinerariesthis branch is given, instead of the direct line.Another mute given in the Antonine Itinerary(p. 311) follows the line of the old Flaminian Wayas far as Xuceria. but thence turns abruptly tothe right across the main ridge of the Apennines,and descends the valley of the Potentia to Ancona.Though given in the Itinerary under the name ofthe Via Flaminia, it may well be doubted whetherthis route was ever properly so called. Before enu­merating the stations and distances along this cele­brated line of road, as recorded in ttie different Iti­neraries, it will be well to give a brief general de­scription of its course, especially of that part of itnearest to Koine. The Via Flaminia issued from the gate of the samename, the Porta Flaminia, which was situated nearlyuii the same site as the modern Porta ikl Popolo, buta little farther from the Tiber, and was carriedthence in a direct line to the Pons Milvius (PonteMolk), where it crossed the Tiber. This celebratedbridge, which so often figures in Koman history,was reckoned to be 3 miles from Rome, thoughonly 2 from the Porta Flaminia, the distances beingas usual computed from the ancient gate, the PortaIUtumena. After crossing the Tiber, the FlaminianWay turned to the right, keeping pretty close to theriver, while the Via Cassia, which diverged from itat this point, ascended the table-land and proceedednearly due N. The line of the Via Flaminia ishere distinctly marked by the remains of severalancient sepulchres, with which its course was studdedon both sides, like the Via Appia and Latina, forsome miles from the gates of Koine. The number ofsuch sepulchres on the line of the Via Flaminia isparticularly noticed by Juvenal (i. 171). One ofthese, which was discovered in the 17th centuryat a place called Gratia Rossa, obtained much cele­brity from being supposed to be that of the familyof Ovid, though in reality it belonged to a family ofthe name of Nasonius, which could have no connec­tion with the j>oet, whose cognomen only was Xaso. Six miles from the Milvian Bridge (at a placenow called Prima Porta) was the station of SaxaKabra, or Ad Rubras as it is called hi the Itineraries,which, from its proximity to Koine, and its position onthe great northern highway, is repeatedly mentionedin history. [Saxa Rubra.] It was here that theVia Tiberina parted from the Flaminia, and,turning off to the right, followed closely the valleyof the river, while the main line of the more impor­tant highway ascended the table-land, and heldnearly a straight course to the station of RostrataVilla, which is placed by the Antonine Itinerary 24miles from Rome. The exact site of this cannot beidentified, but it must have been a little short ofRignano. It is not mentioned in the Tabula or Je­ rusalem Itinerary, both of which, en th* tuLHtr,give another station, Ad Victim tun, which, *s nname imports, was situated 20 miles fr/n E^o*.and, therefore, 11 from Ad Rubras. It mat tis*-fore have been situated a little beyocd tb*di Gvardia, but was evidently a mere Mt^si -station for changing horses, and no ruins mark tb»site. But the course of the Via FUmiria aa fetraced with certainty across this table-liad to tfcfoot of Soracte, by portions of the ancient piv«^sstill existing, and ruined, tombs by the r«.i-JiThe nest station set down in the Jerusalem InrfTL-rand the Tabula is Aqua Viva, 12 miles bfyjed AiVices!mum, and this is identified bey-cai » d^Nwith the Osteria dclf Aeq*ta T'ira, whkb ifat the required distance (32 miles) from SoThence the ancient road proceeded direct t* ibeTiber, leaving Cicita Castclltma (the aiicient Feee>-nium) on the left, and crossed the Tiber aurJe»5««Boryhetto, where the remains of the anevrn:!*-.:^are still visible, and still known as the Pifc di A***>-Thence it proceeded in * straight liz* to Ur-culum, the ruins of which are siroaied be! **modern town of OtricolL Ocriculura was It 11 I'-from Aqua Viva, or 44 from Rome, acccrdi^* la ii*detailed distances of the Jerusalem ltinerarr.are exactly correct. The Antonine Itinerarythe distance in one place 43, in another 47 xik^(Itin. Ant. pp. 125. 311; Itin, Hier. p. 613.a detailed examination of this first portii* of '-aVia Flaminia, see Westphal, Romuthe Kumpcc^t.pp. 133—145; Nibby, Vie degli AiUvrhi, pa i7—74.) The remainder of the route must be more hr-z?described. From Ocricalum it led direct to Sir^-i(12 miles), where it crossed the Nar by thebridge, the ruins of which are still the aintnc-*of travellers, and.quitting altogether tbevaiierNar, crossed the hills nearly in a straight k&N. to Mevania (Btvagna), paxsin<r by a star'soo A;Martis (16 M. P.), and thence to Merania (16 XI P.*.whence it proceeded to Forum FlainiEii. a:foot of the Apennines. But the distances bet*not been examined in detail, and most of to* lib­raries (as already mentioned) Cive the cartar:-** xloop line (nearly coinciding with the moders ~*-'<by Interamna and Sp>Ietium to Forum FurThe stations on this road were, according UItin. Ant.:— Interamna (Term") - Tiii- «. r. Spoletium (SpoUto) - xtuj. Forum Flaminii - - aria,but the Jerusalem Itinerary, which civw -greater detail, makes the total distance ?cy«^greater. The stations as there set down are .— Interamna (Terni) - T-i. JL T. Tres Tabema« - - iu. Fanam Fucitivi - 1 Spoletium {Spoletc') - - T2. Sacraria (Lc \'cne, at the son of the Clitumnus) - - ni Treba (Trevi) - . kii. Fulginium (Foligno) - T. Forum Flaminii The position of Forum Flaminii i* w»Jl unratedat a place called S. Giovanni in foriJSaxma. wyftits ruins are still visible. This is, howrrar. ^ •more than 2 miles from Foliffno. bot m ocrreil*placed by the Itineraries 12 miles fnao Xi--«a(Xocera). There can be no doabt L3it titdatiou of the town of Forum Fbuaiaii wascu:'.«io»­