OCR Output AN. 20.] 561 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in Galilee, called *Gaba; with Hesebonitisin Perea. And these were the places whichhe particularly built. While he was alwaysinventing somewhat farther for his own se­curity; and encompassing the whole nationwith guards, that they might by no meansget from under his power, nor fall into tu­mults; which they did continually upon anysmall commotion; and that if they did makeany commotions, he might know of it; whilesome of his spies might be upon them fromthe neighbourhood, and might both be ableto know what they were attempting, and toprevent it. And when he went about build­ing the walls of Samaria, he contrived tobring thither many of those that had beenassisting to him in his wars; and many ofthe people in that neighbourhood, whom hemade fellow citizens with the rest. This hedid out of an ambitious desire of building atemple; and out of a desire to make the citymore eminent than it had been before; butprincipally because he contrived that itmight at once be for his own security, anda monument of his magnificence. He alsochanged its name; and called it fSebaste;and parted the adjoining country, which wasexcellent in its kind, among the inhabitantsof Samaria, that they might be in a happycondition, upon their first coming to inhabit.Besides this he encompassed the city with awall, of great strength; and made use ofthe acclivity of the place for making his for­tifications stronger. Nor was the compassof the place made now so small as it hadbeen before; but was such as rendered itnot inferior to the most famous cities. Forit was twenty furlongs in circumference.Now within and about the middle of it, hebuilt a sacred place, of a furlong and a halfin circuit, and adorned it with all sorts ofdecorations; and therein erected a temple,which was illustrious on account of both itslargeness and beauty. And as to the severalparts of the city, he adorned them with deco­rations of all sorts also; and made the walls very strong for his own security, and made it,for the greatest part, a citadel: and as to theelegance of the buildings, it was taken careof also; that he might leave monuments ofhis taste and beneficence to future ages. CHAP. IX. of the famine that happened in judf.a and syria;herod's marriage with simon's daughter; andthe rebuilding of cfsarea, and other grecian CITIES. NOW on this year, which was the thir­teenth of the reign of Herod, verygreat calamities came upon the country.Whether they were derived from the angerof God, or Jwhether this misery returnagain naturally in certain periods of time.For in the first place there were perpetualdroughts; and for that reason the groundwas barren, and did not bring forth the samequantity of fruits that it used to produce.And after this barrenness of the soil, thatchange of food which the want of corn occa­sioned, produced distempers in the bodiesof men; and a pestilential disease prevailed;one misery following upon the back of ano­ther. And these circumstances that theywere destitute both of methods of cure, andof food, made the pestilential distemper,which began after a violent manner, themore lasting. The destruction of men alsoafter such a manner deprived those that hadsurvived of all their courage; because theyhad no way to provide remedies sufficientfor the distresses they were in. When there­fore the fruits of that year were spoiled, andwhatsoever they had previously laid up wasspent, there was no foundation of hope forrelief remaining; but the misery, contraryto what they expected, still increased uponthem. And this not only on that year, whilethey had nothing for themselves left at theend of it: but what seed they had sownperished also; by reason of the ground notyielding its fruits on the ||second year. This * Perhaps Gamala. t Augusta, in honour of Augustus Caesar. ^ Here we have an eminent example of the languageof Josephus in his writing to Gentiles different from thatwhen he wrote to the Jews. In his writing to whom hestill derives all such judgments from the anger of God.But because he knew many of the Gentiles thought theymight naturally come in certain periods, he complies with them in the following sentence. See the note Onthe War, I. 33. II This famine for two years, that affected Judea andSyria, the 13th and 14th years of Herod: which are the24th and 23d years before the Christian Era; seems tohave been more terrible, during this time, than was thatin the days of Jacob, Gen. xli. xlii. And what makesthe comparison the more remarkable is this: that now, as