OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 177. The epistle of Belisarius to the emperor announced DeliTCfr"(|jhis victory, his danger, and his resolution. "Accord-oitj.ing to your commands, we have entered the dominionsof the Goths, and reduced to your obedience, Sicily,Campania, and the city of Rome: but the loss of theseconquests will be more disgraceful than their acquisitionwas glorious. Hitherto we have successfully foughtagainst the multitude of the barbarians, but their multi­tudes may finally prevail. Victory is the gift of Provi­dence, but the reputation of kings and generals dependson the success or the failure of their designs. Permitme to speak with freedom: if you wish that we shouldlive, send us subsistence; if you desire that we shouldconquer, send us arms, horses, and men. The Romanshave received us as friends and deliverers; but in ourpresent distress, they will be either betrayed by theirconfidence, or we shall be oppressed by their treacheryand hatred. For myself, my life is consecrated to yourservice: it is yours to reflect, whether my death in thissituation will contribute to the glory and prosperity ofyour reign." Perhaps that reign would have beenequally prosperous, if the peaceful master of the east hadabstained from the conquest of Africa and Italy ; but asJustinian was ambitious of fame, he made some efforts,they were feeble and languid, to support and rescue hisvictorious general. A reinforcement of sixteen hun­dred Sclavonians and Huns was led by Martin and Va­lerian; and as they had reposed during the winter sea­son in the harbours of Greece, the strength of the menand horses was not impaired by the fatigues of a sea-voyage; and they distinguished their valour in the firstsally against the besiegers. About the time of the sum­mer solstice, Euthalius landed at Terracina with largesums of money for the payment of the troops; he cau­tiously proceeded along the Appian way, and this con­voy entered Rome through the gate Capena/ while Be- * The old Capena was removed bj Aurcliau lo, or near, the modern gate of St. Sc-.