OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 359 Gauls, was, with almost the whole of his army, at­tacked at disadvantage and overthrown. He lost abovesix thousand six hundred men,—a severe blow from anenemy who had for some time ceased to be consideredas being formidable. This event called away the con­sul, Lucius Lentulus, from the city; who, arriving inthe province, which was in general confusion, andtaking the command of the army, which he found dis­pirited by its defeat, severely reprimanded the pretor,and ordered him to quit the province, and return toRome. Neither did the consul himself perform anyconsiderable service, being called home to preside atthe elections, which were obstructed by Marcus Ful-vius and Manius Curius, plebeian tribunes, who wishedto hinder Titus Quintius Flamininus from standing can­didate for the consulship, after passing through the of­fice of questor. They alleged that 'the edileship andpretorship were now held in contempt, and that thenobility did not make their way to the consulshipthrough the regular gradations of offices; but, passingover the intermediate steps, pushed at once from thelowest to the highest.' From a dispute in the field ofMars, the affair was brought before the senate, whereit was voted 'that when a person sued for any post,which by the laws he was permitted to hold, the peo­ple had the right of choosing whoever they thoughtproper.' To this decision of the senate the tribunessubmitted, and thereon Sextus jElius Paetus and TitusQuintius Flamininus were elected. Then was held theelection of pretors. The persons chosen were LuciusCornelius Merula, Marcus Claudius Marcellus, MarcusPorcius Cato, and Cains Helvius, who had been ple­beian ediles. These repeated the plebeian games, and,on occasion of the games, celebrated a feast of Jupiter.The curule ediles, also, Caius Valerius Flaccus, whowas flamen of Jupiter, and Caius Cornelius Cethegus,celebrated the Roman games with great magnificence.Servius and Caius Sulpicius Galba, pontiffs, died thisyear: in their room, in the college, were substitutedMarcus jEmilius Lepidus and Cneius Cornelius Scipio.