OCR Output CHAP. L. the reproach of idolatry and polytheism. The creed ofMahomet is free from suspicion or ambiguity; and theKoran is a glorious testimony to the unity of God. Theprophet of Mecca rejected the worship of idols and men,of stars and planets, on the rational principle that what­ever rises must set, that whatever is born must die, thatwhatever is corruptible must decay and perish.h In theauthor of the universe, his rational enthusiasm confessedand adored an infinite and eternal being, without formor place, without issue or similitude, present to ourmost secret thoughts, existing by the necessity of hisown nature, and deriving from himself all moral andintellectual perfection. These sublime truths, thus an­nounced in the language of the prophet,1 are firmly heldby his disciples, and defined with metaphysical preci­sion by the interpreters of the Koran. A philosophictheist might subscribe the popular creed of the Maho­metans :* a creed too sublime perhaps for our presentfaculties. What object remains for the fancy, or eventhe understanding, when we have abstracted from theunknown substance all ideas of time and space, of mo­tion and matter, of sensation and reflection? The firstprinciple of reason and revelation was confirmed by thevoice of Mahomet: his proselytes, from India to Mo­rocco, are distinguished by the name of Unitarians;arid the danger of idolatry has been prevented by theinterdiction of images. The doctrine of eternal decreesand absolute predestination is strictly embraced by theMahometans; and they struggle with the common dif­ficulties, how to reconcile the prescience of God withthe freedom and responsibility of man; how to explain fc This train of thought is philosophically exemplified in the character Of Abra­ham, who opposed in Chaldea the first introduction of idolatry. (Kor.ui, c. 6.p. 106. d'Herbelot. Bibliot. Orient, p. 13.) 'See the Koran, particularly the second, (p. 30.) the fifty-seventh,(p. 437.) thefifty-eighth, (p. 441.) chapter, which proclaim the omnipotence of the Creator. * The most orthodox creeds are translated by Pocock, (Specimen, p. 274.284—292.) Ockley, (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 82—9.5.) Reland, (de Reli-nipn. Moharn. lib. 1. p. 7—13.) and Chardin. (Voyages en Perse, torn. p. 4—-28.)The great truth that God is without similitude, is foolishly criticised by Maracci,(Alcoran, torn. 1. part. 3. p. 87—94.) because he made man after his own image.