OCR Output Ixii NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. Ceni« are supported in a specious, not to fay a con­vincing, manner by M. Grosley. Observations furl'ltalie, torn. i. p. 40, &c. [54] La Brunette near Suse, Demont, ExilesFenestrelles, Coni, &c. [5;] See Ammian. Marcellin. xv. 10. His de­scription of the roads over the Alps, is clear, lively,and accurate. [56] Zosimus as well as Eusebius hasten from tbepassage of the Alps, to the decisive action nearRome. We must apply to the two Panegyrics, forthe intermediate actions of Constantiae. [57] The Marquis Masse! has examined the siegeand battle of Verona, with that degree of attentionand accuracy, which was due to a memorable actionthat happened in his native country. The fortifi­cations of that city, constructed by Gallienus, wereless extensive than the modern walls, and the Am­phitheatre was not included within their circum­ference. See Verona Ulustrata, Part i p. 142. 150. [58] They wanted chains for so great a multi­tude of captives; and the whole council was at aloss; but the sagacious conqueror imagined the hap­py expedient of converting into fetters the swordsof the vanquished. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 11. [59] Panegyr, Vet. ix. 10. [60] Litcras calamitacum fuarum indices fup-primebat. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 15. [61] Remedia malorum potius quam mala disse-rebat, is the fine censure which Tacitus passes onthe supine indolence of Vitelliui. [62] The Marquis Massei has made it extremelyprobable that Constantine was still at Verona, the1st of September, A. D. 312, and that the memo­rable æra of the indictions was dated from his con-quell of the Cisalpine Gaul. [63] See Panegyr. Vet. xi. 16. Lactantius deM. P. c. 44. [64] Illo die hostem Romanorum esse peri'.arum.The vanquished prince became of course the enemyof Rome. [65J See Panegyr. Vet. ix. 16. x. 27. The for­mer of these orators magnifies the hoards of corn. which Maxentius had collected from Africa and theIslands. And yet, if there is any truth in the scarcitymentioned by Eusebius, (in Vit. Constantin, 1. i. c.36.} the Imperial granaries must, have been openonly to the soldiers. [66] Maxentius . .. tandem urbe in Saxa mlra,millia ferme novem segerrime progressus. Aure-lius Victor. See Cellarius Geograph. Antiq. torn. i. p. 463. Saxa Rubra was in the neighbourhoodof the Cremera, a trifling rivulet, illustrated by thevalour and glorious death of the three hundredFabii. [67] The post which Maxentius had taken, withthe Tyber in his rear, is very clearly described bythe two Panegyrists, ix. 16. x. 28. [68] Exceptis latrocinii illius primis auctoribus,qui desperata venia, locum quern pugnæ sumpseranttexere corporibus. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 17. [69] A very idle rumour soon prevailed, thatMaxentius, who had not taken any precaution forhis own retreat, had contrived a very artful snare todestroy the army of the pursuers; but that tbewooden bridge which was to have been loosened onthe approach of Constantine, unluckily broke downunder the weight of the flying Italians. M. deTillemont (Hist, des Empereurs, torn. iv. part i.p. 576.) very seriously examines whether in contra­diction to common fense, the testimony of Eusebiusand Zosimus ought to prevail over the silence ofLactantius, Nazarius, and the anonymous, but con­temporary orator, who composed the ninth pa­negyric. [70] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. £6—83, and the two Pa­negyrics, the former of which was pronounced afew months afterwards, afford the clearest notion ofthis great battle. Lactantius, Eusebius, and eventhe Epitomes, supply several useful hints. [71] Zosimus, the enemy of Constantine, allows,(1. ii. p. 88.) that only a few of the friends ofMaxentius were put to death; but we may remarkthe expressive passage of Nazarius (Panegyr. Vet. x.6), Omnibus qui labefactari statum ejus poterantcum stirpe deJetis. The other orator (Panegyr.Vet ix. 2c, 21.) content's himself with observing,that Constantine, when he entered Rome, did notimitate the cruel massacres of Cinna, of Marius, orof Sylla. [72] See