OCR Output Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 443 the exercises in the Greek literature and language, was amatter of course; and the scholars also consisted, as at theseexercises, of youths, and not of boys. This Latin instructionwas soon divided like the Greek into two courses; in so faras the Latin literature was first scientifically prelected on,and then a technical introduction was given to the prepa­ration of panegyrics, public, and forensic orations. Thefirst Roman school of literature was opened about Stilo'stime by Marcus Saevius Nicanor Postumus, the first separateschool for Latin rhetoric about 660 by Lucius Plotius 90.Gallus; but ordinarily instructions in rhetoric were alsogiven in the Latin schools of literature. This new Latinschool-instruction was of the most comprehensive import­ance. The introduction to the knowledge of Latin literatureand Latin oratory, such as had formerly been imparted byconnoisseurs and masters of high position, had preserved acertain independence in relation to the Greeks. The criticsof language and the masters of oratory were indeed underthe influence of Hellenism, but not absolutely under that ofthe Greek school-grammar and school-rhetoric; the latterin particular was decidedly an object of dread. The prideas well as the sound common sense of the Romans revoltedagainst the Greek assertion, that the ability to speak of things,which the orator understood and felt, intelligibly and attrac­tively to his peers in the mother-tongue could be learned inthe school by school-rules. To the solid practical advocatethe procedure of the Greek rhetoricians, so totally estrangedfrom life, could not but appear worse for the beginner thanno preparation at all; to the man of thorough culture andmatured experience the Greek rhetoric seemed shallow andrepulsive; while the man of serious conservative views didnot fail to observe the close affinity between a professionallydeveloped rhetoric and the trade of the demagogue. Accord­ingly the Seipionic circle had shown the most bitter hosti­lity to the rhetoricians, and, if Greek declamations beforepaid masters were tolerated primarily perhaps as exercisesin speaking Greek, Greek rhetoric did not thereby find itsway either into Latin oratory or into Latin oratorical in­struction. But in the new Latin rhetorical schools theRoman youths were trained as men and public orators bydiscussing in pairs rhetorical themes; they accused or onthe other hand defended Ulysses, who was found besidethe corpse of Ajax with the latter's bloody sword, of the y