OCR Output OF ROME. 115. And the execution was the more remarkable on this BOOKaccount, that his office of conful, impofed on a fa- L **- jither the fevere duty of inflicting punifhment on his Y.R. ,4S.own Ions; and that he, who ought not to have been B. C. 507.prefent as a fpectator, was yet the very perfon whomfortune pitched on to exa£b the penalty of their of­fence. The youths, all of the firft diftinction, ftoocltied to ftakes, but the fons of the conful entirely en­gaged the eyes of all the fpectators, as if the otherswere perfons unknown; and people felt compaflion,not only for their punifhment, but even for thecrime by which they had brought it on themfelves:to think that "they could, during that year parti-"cularly, have been induced to entertain a defign"of betraying their country, juft delivered from ty-"ranny, their father its deliverer, the confulfhip,"which had commenced in the Junian family, the"Patricians, commons, whatever men and gods,"Rome held in higheft veneration, into the handsxc of one who was formerly a tyrannical king, now"an enraged exile." The confuls mounted theirthrone, and the lictors were fent to perform the exe­cution: after ftripping them naked, they beat themwith rods, and beheaded them; whilft, through thewhole procefs of the affair, the father, his looks,and his countenance, afforded an extraordinary fpec-tacle, the feelings of the father often forcing theirway through the character of the magiftrate enfor­cing the execution of the laws. After the criminalswere punifhed, in order to exhibit a ftriking exam­ple for the prevention of crimes, in their treatmentof the feveral parties, they gave, as a reward to thedifcoverer, a fum of money out of the treafury, hisfreedom, and the rights of a citizen. This man isfaid to be the firft who was made free by the Vin-dicta*. Some think ^that the term " Vindicta" was * The vindidla was a roJ, or y1and, with which the conful, in earlytimes, afterwards the city praetor, ftruck the flave prdentedtg b m Cos 1 I W..1....I..