OCR Output 4 ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. Book IX. * judges out of the priests and the Levites, and principal personsof the multitude, and admonished them to pass all their sentenceswith care and justice. And that if any of the people of his coun­try had differences of great consequence, they should send themout of the other cities to these judges, who would be obliged togive righteous sentences concerning such causes; and this withthe greater care, because it is proper that the sentences whichare given in that city wherein the temple of God is, and where­in the king dwells, be given with great care, and the utmostjustice. Now he set over them Amariah the priest, and Zeba-diah, [both] of the tribe of Judah: and after this manner it wasthat the king ordered these affairs. 2. About the same time the Moabites and Ammonites made anexpedition against Jehoshaphat, and took with them a greatbody of Arabians, and pitched their camp at Engedi, a city'that is situate at the lake Asphaltitis, and distant three hundredfurlongs from Jerusalem. In that place grows the best kind ofpalm-trees, and the ')- opobalsamum. Now Jehoshaphat heardthat the enemies had passed over the lake, and had made anirruption into that country which belonged to his kingdom; atwhich news he was affrighted, and called the people of Jerusalemto a congregation in the temple, and standing over against thetemple itseltj he called upon God, "To afford him power and"strength, so as to inflict punishment on those that made this"expedition against them, (for that those who built this his tem-"pie had prayed, that he would protect that city, and take ven-"geance on those that were so bold as to come against it), for"they are come to take from us that land which thou hast"given us for a possession." When he had prayed thus, he fellinto tears; and the whole multitude, together with their wivesand children, made their supplications also : Upon which a cer-Jain prophet, Jahaziel, by name, came into the midst of the assem­bly, and cried out, and spake both to the multitude and to theking, that God heard their prayers, and promised to fight againsttheir enemies. He also gave order that the king should drawhis forces out the next day, for that he should find them betweenJerusalem, and the ascent of Engedi, at a place, called the Emi­nence, and that he should not fight against them, but only standstill, and see how God would fight against them. When the pro­phet had said this, both the king and the multitude fell upon their * These judges, constituted by Jehoshaphat, were a kind of Jerusalem sanhedrim,out of the priests, the Levites, and the principal of the people, both here and 2 Chron.lix. 8. much like the old Christian judicatures of the bishop, the presbyters, thedeacons, and the people* f Concerning this precious balsam, see the note on Antiq. B. VIII. ch. vi. KCt. 6.