OCR Output 526 PALAESTINA. PALAESTINA neemed to be constantly bubbling and in motion.(Molyneux, p. 129; Lynch, pp. 288, 289.) Andeven the marvellous fact mentioned byJosephua, ofthe sea changing its colour three times a day, mayderive some countenance from testimonies alreadycited, but more especially from the following noticeof Lieut. Lynch: —" At one time, to-day, the seaassumed an aspect peculiarly .sombre. . . . The greatevaporation enveloped it in a thin, transparentvapour, its purple tinge contrasting strangely withthe extraordinary colour of the sea beneath, and,where they blended in the distance, giving it theappearance of smoke from burning sulphur. Itseemed a vast caldron of metal, fused but motion­less" (p. 324): "in the forenoon it had looked likea sheet of foam;' In the afternoon, of the same day,it "verified the. resemblance which it has been saidto bear to molten lead;" "at night it had the exacthue of absinthe" (p. 276). The earlier testimonyof Prince Kadzivil may also he adduced, who, afterciting Joseph us, adds, that he had had ocular proofof the fact: "Nam mane habebat aquam nigrican-tetn; meridie, sole intenso (sunt enim calores hiemaximi) instar panni fit caerulea: ante occasum,ubi vis caloris remittit, tanquam limo permixta,modice rubet, vcl potius flavescit." (Itrosolymitanai'eregrituitiOi p. 96.) A familiarity acquired bythree weeks' diligent examination did not removethe feeling of awe inspired by its marvels: "Sosudden are the changes of the weather, and so dif­ferent the aspects it presents, as at times to seem asif we were in a world of enchantments. We arealternately beside and upon the brink and the sur­face of a huge and sometimes seething caldron."(Lieut. Lynch, Bib. Sua: vol. v. p. 768.) 5. Bitumen. — It is to be regretted that theAmerican expedition has thrown no new light onthe production of the asphalt for which this sea wasonce so famous. Along almost the whole of thewest coast numerous fragments of this substanceare found among the pebbles, but there is no recordof any considerable masses or fields of it being seenby any European travellers in modern times; urdess,as is suggested by Irby and Mangles, the imaginaryislands may be so regarded. Hut it is curious thatthe traditions of the natives still confirm the noticeof Strabo that drops of pitch are distilled from rockson the eastern shore;—a story repeated by variousArab sheikhs to Seetzen, Burckbardt, and Itobinson,the last of whom also mentions the fact of their be­lief that the large masses of bitumen appear onlyafter earthquakes. Thus, after the earthquake of 1B34,a large quantity was thrown upon the shore nearthe south-western part of the sea, of which one tribebrought about 60 kuntars into market (each k untax= 98 lbs.); and that after the earthquake of Jim.1st, 1837, a large mass of bitumen (one said like anisland, another like a house) was discovered Moatingon the sea, and was driven aground on the west side,not far to the north of Vsdum, The Arabs swamoil" to it, and cut it up with axes so as to bring itashore; as Tacitus tells us was done in his times,though he mentions what he considered the less pro­bable account of its flowing as a black liquid intothe ships in a perpetual stream. (Robinson, Bib.Res. vol. ii. pp. 228—2:11.) That the water ofthis sea is destructive of all animal life, as allthe ancients held, seems sufficiently proved; foralthough shells have been found on the shore, theyhive been evidently washed down by the Jordanor other fresh water streams, and their inmates de- stroyed by the sea water; while the bird*have been occasionally seen on its surface ci»t mregarded as denizens of th«we same stmm»: iad wanimal life has been discovered in its waters. V. Volcanic PkaevomeSj. Something must now be said of the variocs tie*ries by which it has been attempted to arena,! tJthe wonderful phaenomena above recorded rt" tat toprcsMon of the Ghor, or Valley of the Jordan; mof the formation and physical ccnttitarm rf UDead Sea, All theories suppose volcanic if?^and it is worthy of observation that. wl,;> n* i'liest historical and poetical records r<f the ptibear witness to a familiarity with such ph-^n^nthe existing geological monuments cm linn themony. Independently of the igneous aceucy by *,>*the cities of the plain were destroyed, math '.!descriptive imagery of the psalmists ard propheaborrowed from voleanos and earthquakes; «iithere are evidences of an earthquake of t*ttand probably destructive violence during the mof Uzziah, king of Judah, which formed a Vi-iera in the history of the country, being allavdafter an interval of 300 years. (.-1 m*. \. 1:riah, xiv. 5.) The existing phaenomenabriefly mentioned, beginning with one recenm Icovered by the American explorers, of wfr m ~ 1Aultck reports a volcanic formatioil on ti»e *shore, and brought specimens of lava" (pThe mountain known as Jebrl Afusn. at lb*east of the Dead Sea, composed entirely of bfcbituminous limestone, which burns like cm!, fanbeen investigated so fully as it deserves: batbasaltic columns in the vicinity of the sei t*bcrias have been frequently noticed by tia*s2The thermal fountains of CallirrhoS, Gaiirx.Tiberias complete the chain of evidence, ard rvjit highly probable that the extinct volcano n «Dr. Robinson at a abort distance north-west vf &the Frank Mountain, and others, may La":active during the historical period,and funu.-j*Jpoets and prophets with the sublime miaerry dfbible. Having then discovered the ir-st jgeological changes that the country ii-t* '*through, it may be interesting to hear tr.e t^mtwo eminent and scientific writers on the {problem under consideration. Kussegger, who has himself carefully rif"^phaenomena of the country and tested the 4vations of preceding travellers, thus muss tjresults (Rcisen, p. 205); — "From its exit from the hike of Tiberias to idtrance into the Dead Sea tlic Jordan ha* i "3716 Paris feet and thus lies at the l»rt*r1341 Paris feet below the level of the Mwirtnean sea. At the southern extremity tfe»Sea lie the marshy lowlands of tt'acfy-W-Cr**commencement of W'afly-tLA raba^ and afpftfvery little higher than the IVad SVm i;«it. 1lowlands join Wady-tt-Aruba, t-lie bed of 1rises gently to the watershed which sev«raMwater system of the Dead Sea from that <A totSea. As the watershed of \i'a>fy-*l~A naon *rently of no considerable height above the a*the sea, the length of this remarkable dtr*may be reckoned from the northern extrecrutT iplain BL-Bntihth (to the north of the »ea «frias) to this watershed, a distance of fail tfcnigrees. AH the rm*k of this region cor-sist* .Jmal formations, amongst which Lfcosc of tbc Jti