OCR Output 37 S TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. vived.their courage in a peculiar manner, was the no­mination of Quinctius Servilius Priscus, dictator, by or­der of the senate; a man, of whose penetration the statehad had proofs on former occasions, and especially with* respect to the event of this war, he being the only OIK;,who, before the late miscarriage, seemed to foreste theconsequence of the misunderstanding of the tribunes.According to some authors, he cbo?e his son general ofthe horse; by whom, in quali'y of military tribune, hebad been himself declared dictator. Others, however,say, that Semlius Ahala was made general of the horseupon this occasion. Wherefore, taking the field withhis new army, he reinforced it with that at Tusculum,and encamped within two miles of the enemy.. CHAP. XLVII. Tlie defeat sf the JRqui and Lavicans, and capture ofLu'uicum, for which a Roman colony vias voted. T J. HE neglect and insolence, which had formerly pre­vailed in the Roman generals, went over to the /Ivrr,with their good success. The dictator having se.nt hiihorse, in the beginning of the battle, to charge the ene­my's front, which was soon put into disorder, ordered thelegions to advance to support them with all expedition;and observing an ensign slacken his pace, he killed himon the spot. The ardour of the Roman troops was toomuch for the /Equi to sustain; wherefore, being over­powered in the field, they fled with great precipitationto their camp, which required still less time and troubleto force, than it had done to beat them in- the field.The camp being taken and rifled, the dictator gave allthe plunder of it to the troops. The horse, who had pursued the enemy in their flightout of the camp, having brought advice, that the routedLavicans, and a great part of the ./Equi had fled toLavicum, the army marched thither next day, invesiedthe place, and having taken it by escalade, it was plun­dered by the soldiers. The dictator marched back hisvictorious army to Rome, and resigned the dictatorship,eight days after his nomination.