OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 231 patient of the tedious forms of judicial proceedings, chap.The enemies of gods and men expired under their xvm,cruel insults; the lifeless bodies of the archbishop Dec 24.and his associates were carried in triumph throughthe streets on the back of a camel. The remains ofthese guilty wretches were thrown into the sea; andthe popular leaders of the tumult declared their reso­lution to disappoint the devotion of the Christians,and to intercept the future honours of these martyrs,who had been punished, like their predecessors, bythe enemies of their religion. The fears of the Paganswere just, and their precautions ineffectual. Themeritorious death of the archbishop obliterated thememory of his life. The rival of Athanasius wasdear and sacred to the Arians, and the seeming con­version of those sectaries introduced his worship intothe bosom of the Catholic church. The odiousstranger, disguising every circumstance of time and and wor-place, assumed the mask of a martyr, a saint, and ^i^anda Christian hero; and the infamous George of Cap- martyr.padocia has been transformed * into the renownedSt. George of England, the patron of arms, of chi­valry, and of the garter t. About the same time that Julian was informed ofthe tumult of Alexandria, he received intelligencefrom Edessa, that the proud and wealthy faction ofthe Arians had insulted the weakness of the Valen-tinians, and committed such disorders as ought notto be suffered with impunity in a well-regulated state.Without expecting the slow forms of justice, theexasperated prince directed his mandate to the ma- * This transformation is not given as absolutely certain, but as extremely pro­bable. See the Longueruana, torn. i. p. 194. f A curious history of the worship of St. George, from the sixth century(when he was already revered in Palestine, in Armenia, at Rorne, and at Trevesin Gaul), might be extracted from Dr. Heylin (History of St. George, 2d edi­tion, London, 1633, in 4to. p. 429.), and the Bollandists (Act. SS. Mens.April. torn. iii. p. 100—163.). His fame and popularity in Europe, and espe­cially in England, proceeded from the Crusades. Q 4