OCR Output 374 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. themselves patriots, were tempted by the wealth and* honours of a new reign; to the soldiers, the heir of Chosroes promised an increase of pay; to the Chris­tians, the free exercise of their religion; to the cap­tives, liberty and rewards; and to the nation, instantpeace and the reduction of taxes. It was determinedby the conspirators, that Siroes, with the ensigns ofroyalty, should appear in the camp; and if the enter­prise should fail, his escape was contrived to the Im­perial court. But the new monarch was saluted withHe is de. unanimous acclamations; the flight of Chosroes (yeta*d!C28. where could he have fled?) was rudely arrested,F*. 25. eighteen sons were massacred before his face, and he and mur- ° dered by was thrown into a dungeon, where he expired on thesiroes, fifth day. The Greeks and modern Persians mi-*eb. 28. llutely describe how Chosroes was insulted, and fa­mished, and tortured, by the command of an inhumanson, who so far surpassed the example of his father;but at the time of his death, what tongue would re­late the story of the parricide? what eye could pene­trate into the toxcer of darltness? The glory of thehouse of Sassan ended with the life of Chosroes; hisunnatural son enjoyed only eight months the fruit ofhis crime's; and in the space of four years, the regaltitle was assumed by nine candidates, who disputed,with the sword or dagger, the fragments of an ex­hausted monarchy. Every province, and each cityof Persia, was the scene of independence, of dis­cord, mid of blood; and the state of anarchy prevailedabout eight years longer, till the factions were silencedand united under the common yoke of the Arabiancaliphs *.Treaty of As soon as the mountains became passable, the em-fween the peror received the welcome news of the success of two empires, * The best oriental accounts of this last period of the Sassanian kings arefound in Eutychius (AnnuL torn. ii. p. '2hI—256), who dissembles the parricideof Siroes, D'Herbelot (Bibliotheque Orientalc, p. 789), and Assemanni (Biblio-thec. OrientaL tom, iii- p. 416— 4'JO).