OCR Output CHAP. L. 259 dwelt under similar tents, and conducted their horses,and camels, and sheep, to the same springs and thesame pastures. Our toil is lessened, and our wealth isincreased, by our dominion over the useful animals.'and the Arabian shepherd had acquired the absolutepossession of a faithful friend and a laborious slave.1Arabia, in the opinion of the naturalist, is the The horse. . . r. , genuine and original country ot the horse; theclimate most propitious, not indeed to the size, but tothe spirit and swiftness, of that generous animal. Themerit of the Barb, the Spanish, and the English breed,is derived from a mixture of Arabian blood ;m the Bedo-weens preserve, with superstitious care, the honours andthe memory of the purest race; the males are sold at ahigh price, but the females are seldom alienated; andthe birth of a noble foal was esteemed among the tribesas a subject of joy and mutual congratulation. Thesehorses are educated in the tents, among the children ofthe Arabs, with a tender familiarity, which trains themin the habits of gentleness and attachment. They areaccustomed only to walk and to gallop: their sensationsare not blunted by the incessant abuse of the spur andthe whip: their powers are reserved for the moments offlight and pursuit; but no sooner do they feel the touchof the hand or the stirrup, than they dart away with theswiftness of the wind; and if their friend be dismountedin the rapid career, they instantly stop till he has re- covered his seat. In the sands of Africa and 'Arabia, the camel, is a sacred and precious gift. That strong and patient beast of burden can perform, without eating and drinking, a journey of several days; p. 327—,;.H. _) and Volney, (torn. 1. p. 343—385.) the last and most judicious ofom Syrian travellers. 'Read (it is no unpleasant task) the incomparable articles of the horse and theesmet, in the Natural History of M. de Button. , 10 For the Arabian horses, see d'Arvieux (p. 159—173.) and Niebuhr. (p. 112—144.) At the end of the thirteenth century, the horses of Naged were esteemedsurefooted, those of Yemen strong and serviceable, those of Hejaz most uoble. Thehorses of Europe, the tenth and last class, were generally despised, as having toomuch body and too little spirit: (d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 339.) their strengthwas requisite to bear the weight of the knight and his armour. S 2