OCR Output AN. 1052.] 275 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. liver that child to the other woman as herown; ibr she would be satisfied with the lifeof the child, and with the sight of it, althoughit were esteemed the other's child. But theother woman was ready to see the child di­vided, and was even desirous that the firstwoman should be tormented. When theking understood that both their words pro­ceeded from the truth of their passions, headjudged the child to her who cried out forits preservation; for that she was the realmother; and he condemned the other as awicked woman, who had not only killed herown child, but was willing to see her friend'schild destroyed also. Now the multitudelooked on this determination as a great de­monstration of the king's sagacity and wis­dom; and after that day attended to him, asto one that had a divine mind.* Now the captainsf of Solomon's armies,and officers appointed over the whole coun­try, were these. Over the lot of Ephraim wasUres; over the toparchy of Bethlehem wasDioclerus. Abinadab, who married Solo­mon's daughter, had the region of Dora, andthe sea coast under him. The great plainwas under Benaiah the son of Achilus, whoalso governed all the country as far as Jor­dan. Gabaris ruled over Gilead, and Gaula-nitis; and had under him the sixty great andfenced cities of Og. Achinadab managedthe affairs of all Galilee, as far as Sid on;and had himself also married a daughter ofSolomon, whose name was Basima. Bana-cates had the sea coast about Arce; as hadShaphat, mount Tabor and Carmel, and the Tbracians, being appointed to arbitrate between threemen, who all pretended to be song of the king of theCimmerians, and claimed the succession, found out thetrue son and heir, by ordering them to shoot each manhis arrow into the dead king's body, which one of themrefusing to do, was deemed the true claimant. Pool'sAnnotations, Patrick''» and Calmefs Commentaries. B. * 1 Kings iii. 28. t Mr. Reland has treated of these prefects of provinces,and of their provinces, more exactly than any other: andhas compared our copies of 1 Kings iv. with Josephusvery carefully; to whom I refer the learned reader. Pa-lestina, tom. I. lib. I. chap. 29. Only we must note, thatJosephus has but ten prefects, and that his names are dif­ferent from those in our copies. J It may not be amiss to compare the daily furnitureof Solomon's table, here set down, and 1 Kings iv. 22, 23.with the like daily furniture of Nehemiah, the governor'stable, after the Jews were come back from Babylon; andto remember withal, that Nehemiah was now building VOL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24. lower Galilee, as far as the river Jordan; oneman was appointed over all this country.Shimei was intrusted with the lot of Benja­min; and Gabares had the country beyondJordan; over whom there was again onegovernor appointed. Now the people of theHebrews, and particularly the tribe of Judah,received a wonderful increase, when theybetook themselves to husbandry, and thecultivation of their grounds. For as they en­joyed peace, and had besides an unboundedfruition of the most desirable liberty, everyone was busy in augmenting the product oftheir own lands, and making them worthmore than they had formerly been. The king had also other rulers, who wereover the land of Syria, and of the Philistines,which reached from the river Euphrates toEgypt; and these collected his tributes of thenations. Now these contributed to the king'stable, and to his supper every day thirty coriof fine flour,} and sixty of meal; as also tenfat oxen, twenty oxen out of the pastures, anda hundred fat lambs; all these were besideswhat were taken by hunting, harts, buffaloes,birds, and fishes, which were brought to theking by foreigners every day. Solomon hadalso so great a number of chariots, that - thestalls of his horses for these chariots wereforty thousand;! and besides these he hadtwelve thousand horsemen: one half of whichwaited upon the king in Jerusalem, and weredispersed abroad, and dwelt in the royal vil­lages. But the same officers who providedfor the king's expenses, supplied also thefodder for the horses, and still carried it the walls of Jerusalem, and maintained more than usualabove one hundred and fifty considerable men every day;and that, because the nation was then very poor, at hisown charges also; without laying any burden upon thepeople. "Now that which was prepared for me dailywas one ox, and six choice sheep. Also fowls were pre­pared for me. And once in ten days a store of all sorts ofwine; and yet for all this 1 required not the bread of thegovernor, because the bondage was heavy upon this peo­ple." Nehem. v. 18. See the whole context, v. 14, 19.Nor did the governor's usual allowance of forty shekelsof silver a day, v. 15, amount to 51. a day; nor to 1800/.a year. Nor does it indeed appear that under the judges,or under Samuel the prophet, there was any such publicallowance to those governors at all. Those great chargesupon the public for maintaining courts came in with kings,as God had foretold. 1 Sam. viii. 11—18. II Four thousand, 2 Chron. ix. 25, which I suppose tobe the true number. 3 E