OCR Output 510 [book XIY ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. only the name of a king which is given thee?But do not thou suffer these things to behidden from thee: nor do not thou think to es­cape danger by being so careless of thyselfand of thy kingdom. For Antipater and hissons are not now stewards of thine affairs: donot thou deceive thyself with such a notion:they are evidently absolute lords. For Herod,Antipater's son, hath slain Hezekias, and thosethat were with him; and hath thereby trans­gressed our law; which hath forbidden toslay any man, even though he were a wickedman, unless he had been first* condemned tosuffer death by the Sanhedrim. Yet hath hebeen so insolent, as to do this, without anyauthority from thee." Upon Hyrcanus's hearing this, he compliedwith them. The mothers also of those thathad been slain by Herod excited his indigna­tion. For these women continued every dayin the temple, persuading the king and thepeople, that Herod might undergo a trial be­fore the Sanhedrim, for what he had done.Hyrcanus was at length so moved by thesecomplaints, that he summoned Herod to takehis trial, for what was charged upon him. Andaccordingly he came. But his father hadpersuaded him to come, not like a privateman, but with a guard for the security of hisperson; and that when he had settled the af­fairs of Galilee in the best manner he couldfor his own advantage, he should come to histrial; but still with a body of men sufficientfor his security on his journey. Yet so thathe should not come with so great a force, asmight look like terrifying Hyrcanus; but stillsuch a one as might not expose him nakedand unguarded, to his enemies. HoweverSextus Caesar, president of Syria, wrote toHyrcanus; desiring him to clear Herod, anddismiss him at his trial; and threatening himbeforehand if he did not do it. Which epis­tle of his was the occasion of Hyrcanus's de­livering Herod from suffering any harm fromthe Sanhedrim: for he loved him as his ownson. But when Herod stood before the San- hedrim, with his body of men about him, heaffrighted them all: and no one of his formeraccusers durst after that bring any chargeagainst him. But there was a deep silence;and nobody knew what was to be done.When affairs stood thus, one whose namewas tSameas, (a righteous man, and for thatreason, above all fear,) rose up and said:— "O ye that are assessors with me, and 0thou that art our king, I neither have evermyself known such a case; nor do I supposethat any one of you can name its parallel; thatone who is called to take his trial by us, everstood in such a manner before us. But everyone, whosoever he be, that comes to be triedby this Sanhedrim, presents himself in a sub­missive manner, and like one that is in fearof himself; and that endeavours to move us tocompassion, with his hair dishevelled, and ina black and mourning garment. But thisadmirable man, Herod, who is accused ofmurder, and called to answer so heavy an ac­cusation, stands here clothed in purple, andwith the hair of his head finely trimmed, andwith his armed men about him; that if weshall condemn him by our law, he may slayus; and by overbearing justice may himselfescape death. Yet do not I make this com­plaint against Herod himself. He is to besure more concerned for himself than for thelaws. But my complaint is against yourselves,and your king, who give him a license so todo. However, take notice, that God is great:and this very man, whom you are going to ab­solve and dismiss, for the sake of Hyrcanus,will one day punish both you, and your kingalso." Nor did Sameas mistake in any part of thisprediction. For when Herod had receivedthe kingdom,J he slew Hyrcanus and all themembers of this Sanhedrim; excepting Sa­meas. For he had a great honour for him, onaccount of his righteousness: and because,when the city was afterward besieged byHerod and Sosius, he persuaded the peopleto admit Herod into it; and told them, that * It is here worthy of remark, that none could be putto death in Judea, but by the approbation of the JewishSanhedrim; there being an excellent provision in the lawof Moses, that even in criminal causes, and particularlywhere life was concerned, an appeal should lie from thelesser councils of 7, in the other cities, to the supremecouncil of 71, at Jerusalem. And this is exactly accord­ing to our Saviour's words; when he says, "It could not be that a prophet should perish out of Jerusalem." Lukexiii. 33. t This account, as Reland observes, is confirmed bythe Talmudists: who call this Sameas, Simeon the son ofShetach. The like foreboding speech of Sulla concerningJulius Caesar, is in Suetonius JuJ. Caes. I. as Havercamphere takes notice. t See Book XV. chap. 1.