OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 17 Thaumasius the wonderful; his tomb was decoratedwith the trophies of martyrdom, and the patriarch as­cended the pulpit, to celebrate the magnanimity of anassassin and a rebel. Such honours might incite thefaithful to combat and die under the banners of the saint;and he soon prompted, or accepted, the sacrifice of avirgin, who professed the religion of the Greeks, andcultiviated the friendship of Orestes. Hypatia, thedaughter of Theon the mathematician,11 was initiatedin her father's studies: her learned comments haveelucidated the geometry of Apollonius and Diophantus,and she publicly taught, both at Athens and Alexan­dria, the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. In thebloom of beauty, and in the maturity of wisdom, themodest maid refused her lovers and instructed her dis­ciples; the persons most illustrious for their rank ormerit were impatient to visit the female philosopher;and Cyril beheld, with jealous eye, the gorgeous trainof horses and slaves who crowded the door of her aca­demy. A rumour was spread among the Christians, thatthe daughter of Theon was the only obstacle to the re­conciliation of the prefect and the archbishop; and thatobstacle was speedily removed. On a fatal day, in theholy season of Lent, Hypatia was torn from her chariot,stripped naked, dragged to the church, and inhumanlybutchered by the hands of Peter the reader, and atroop of savage and merciless fanatics: her flesh wasscraped from her bones with sharp oyster-shells,0 andher quivering limbs were delivered to the flames. Thejust progress of inquiry and punishment was stopped '• For Theon, and his daughter Hypatia, see Fabricius, Bibliothec. torn. 8. p.910,311. Her article in the Lexicon of Suidas is curious and original. Itesvchins(Meursii Opera, torn. 7. p. 295, 296.) observes, that she was prosecuted em ruywnpg»xx»w« 9-iKfiay; and an epigram in the Greek Anthology (lib. 1. c. 76. p. 159.edit. Mni.la.ii celebrates her knowledge and eloquence. She is honourably men­tioned (Epist. 10.15,16. 33—80. 124. 135. 153.) by her friend and disciple thephilosophic bishop Synesius. c Oc-rfcLnut aniXn, tuu /ulXnJov }UKTwoo-am;, &c. Oyster-shells were plentifullystrewed on the sea-beach before the Casareurn. I may therefore prefer the lite­ral sense, without rejecting the metaphorical version of tegulae, tiles, which is usedby M. de Valois. I am ignorant, and the assassins were probably regardless,whether their victim waft yet alive. VOL. VI. C