OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 349 tune, that they imagined nothing could disconcert theirschemes ; that enterprizes of the greatest as well as of smallimportance, no matter whether adequately or insufficientlysupported, must be ended to their wish. This was owingto the unexpected good luck with which most of their pro­jects had of late succeeded, and now invigorated all theirexpectations. The same summer, the Megareans of the city of Me-gara, pressed hard by the Athenians, who constantly twicea year made an inroad into their territory with their wholeunited force; harassed at the same time by their own out­laws, who having been ejected by the popular party in thetrain of a sedition had settled at Pegae, and from thencewere continually plundering them, began to have some con­ference about the expediency of recalling their outlaws, thatthe city might not doubly be exposed to ruin. The friendsof these exiles, perceiving such a design to be in agitation,insisted more openly than ever that the affair should be re­gularly considered. The leaders of the people being con­vinced that their own and the strength of the people unitedin their present low condition could not possibly over-ruleit, were so far influenced by their fears as to make a secretoffer to the Athenian generals, Hippocrates the son ofAriphron, and Demosthenes the son of Alcisthenes, " to put" the city into their hands;" concluding, they should beless endangered by such a step than by the restoration ofthe exiles whom they themselves had ejected. It was agreed,that in the first place the Athenians should take possessionof the long-walls (these were eight stadia* in length, reach­ing down from the city to Nisaea their port) to prevent anysuccour which might be sent from Nisaea by the Peloponne-sians, since there alone they kept their garrison for the se­curity of Megara. After this, they promised their endea­vours to put them in possession of the upper city. And thisthey would be able to effect more easily, when the formerpoint was once secured. •About three quarters of a mileVol. I. 3 M