OCR Output Chap. L] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 43 west to a point beyond Scodra, where Illyria began. Theprotectorate which Rome claimed over Greece Proper like­wise devolved, of course, on the new governor of Macedonia.Tims Macedonia recovered its unity and nearly the samelimits which it had in its most flourishing times. It was nolonger, however, an united kingdom, but an united pro­vince, retaining its communal and even as it would seemits national organization, but placed under an Italian go­vernor aud quaestor, whose names make their appearance onthe native coins along with the name of the country. Astribute there was retained the old moderate land tax, asPaullus had arranged it (ii. 303)—a sum of 100 talents(£24,400) which was allocated in fixed proportions on theseveral communities. Yet the land could not forget its oldglorious dynasty. A few years after the subjugation of thePseudo-Philip another pretended son of Perseus, Alexander,raised the banner of insurrection on the Nestus (Karasu),and had in a short time collected 16,000 men; but thequaestor Lucius Tremellius mastered the insurrectionwithout difficulty and pursued the fugitive pretender as faras Dardania (612). This was the last movement of the 142.proud national spirit of Macedon, which two hundred yearsbefore had accomplished so great things in Hellas and Asia.Henceforward there is scarcely anything else to be told ofthe Macedonians, save that they continued to reckon theiringlorious years from the date at which the countryreceived its definitive provincial organization (608). 146. Thenceforth the defence of the northern and easternfrontiers of Macedonia or, in other words, of the frontier ofHellenic civilization against the barbarians devolved on theRomans. It was not conducted by them with adequateforces or, on the whole, with befitting energy; but with aprimary view to this military object the great Egnatianhighway was constructed, wliich as early as the time ofPolybius ran from Apollonia and Dyrrhaehium, the two chiefports on the west coast, across the interior to Thessalonica,and was afterwards prolonged to the Hebrus (Maritza).*The new province became the natural basis, on the one hand * This road was known even to the author of the pseudo-Aristoteliantreatise De Mirabilibus as a commercial route between the Adriatic and Blackseas, viz. as that along which the wine jars from Corcyra met half way thosefrom Thasos and Lesbos. Even now it runs substantially in the same directionfrom Durazzo, crossing the mountains of Bagora (Candavian chain) at the lakeof Ochrida (Lychuitis), by way of Monastir to Salonica.