OCR Output 390 [BOOK XL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. kings: as hath their city been also: which,for that reason, hath been till now laidwaste. We thought proper also to informthee of this matter, because thou mayestotherwise perhaps be ignorant that if thiscity be once inhabited, and entirely encom­passed with walls, thou wilt be excluded fromthy passage to Coelesyria and Phoenicia." When Cambyses had read the epistle,being naturally wicked, he was irritated atwhat they told him; and wrote back to themas follows: "Cambyses the king, to Rathumus thehistoriographer, to Beeltethmus, to Semelliusthe scribe, and the rest that are in commis­sion, and dwelling in Samaria and Phoenicia,after this manner. I have read the epistlethat was sent from you; and I gave orderthat the books of my forefathers should besearched into. And it is there found, thatthis city hath always been an enemy to kings:and its inhabitants have raised seditions andwars. We also are sensible that their kingshave been powerful, and tyrannical, and haveexacted tribute of Coelesyria and Phoenicia.Wherefore I give order, that the Jews shallnot be permitted to build that city; lest suchmischief as they used to bring upon kings, begreatly augmented." When this epistle wasread, Rathumus, and Semellius the scribe,and their associates, got suddenly on horse­back, and made haste to Jerusalem; theyalso brought a great company with them,and forbade the Jews to build the city andthe temple. Accordingly these works werehindered from going on till the second yearof the reign of Darius; for nine more years.For Cambyses reigned seven years;* andwithin that time overthrew Egypt; and whenhe was come back, he died at Damascus. CHAP. III. OF THE ELEVATION OF DARIUS TO THE THROVE OF PERSIA;THE SUPERIORITY OF ZOROBABEL IN THE SOLUTION OFFROBLKVS; AND THE PERMISSION WHICH HE ATTAINEDFOR THE REBUILDING OF THE TEMPLE, FTER the slaughter of the Magi,f who,upon the death of Cambyses, retained A * Cambyses reigned, according to the canon of Pto­lemy, including the seven months of the Magi, eightyears. Josephus gives here Cambyses but six years,Rnd the Magi one year; seven in all. I suppose Pto- the government of the Persians for a year,those families which were called the sevenfamilies of the Persians appointed Darius,the son of Hystaspes, to be their king. Nowhe, while he was a private man, had made avow to God, that if he came to be king, hewould send all the vessels of God that werein Babylon to the temple at Jerusalem. Nowit so fell out, that about this time Zorobabel,who had been made governor of the Jewsthat had been in captivity, came to Darius,from Jerusalem; for there had been an oldfriendship between him and the king. Hewas also, with two others, thought worthy tobe guards of the king's body; and obtainedthat honour which he hoped for. Now in the first year of the king's reign,Darius feasted those that were about him,and those born in his house, with the rulersof the Medes, and princes of the Persians,and the toparchs of India and Ethiopia, andthe generals of the armies, of his hundredand twenty-seven provinces. But when theyhad eaten and drank abundantly, they everyone departed to their own houses. And Da­rius the king went to bed. But after he hadrested a little part of the night, he awoke,and not being able to sleep any more, he fellinto conversation with the three guards of hisbody; and promised that to him who shouldmake an oration, about points that he shouldinquire of, such as should be most agreeableto truth, and to the dictates of wisdom, hewould grant it as a reward of his victory, toput on a purple garment, to drink in cups ofgold, to sleep upon gold, and to have a cha­riot with bridles of gold, and a head tire offine linen, and a chain of gold about his neck,and to set next to himself, on account of hiswisdom, and to be called his cousin. Nowwhen he had promised to give them thesegifts, he asked the first of them, whetherwine were not the strongest? the second,whether kings were not such? and the third,whether women were not such? or whethertruth were not rather the strongest of all?When he had proposed that they shouldmake their inquiries about these problems,he went to rest. But in the morning he Bent lemy's canon to be the true number; though the dif­ference between that account and Josephus's, is no morethan a single year.- } An. 622.