OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 411 tred his brothers and cousins, the rivals of his hopes; norcould he depend on the gratitude of those who would ac-• cept the purple as a restitution, rather than a gift. Ofthese competitors, one had been removed by exile, andafterward by death; and the emperor himself had in­flicted such cruel insults on another, that he must eitherdread his resentment or despise his patience. This do­mestic animosity was refined into a generous resolution ofseeking a successor, not in his family, but in the repub­lic: and the artful Sophia recommended Tiberius,b hisfaithful captain of the guards, whose virtues and fortunethe emperor might cherish as the fruit of his judiciouschoice. The ceremony of his elevation to the rank of AmocU-Cassar or Augustus, was performed in the portico of the Tinerins,palace, in the presence of the patriarch and the senate. December.'Justin collected the remaining strength of his mind andbody, but the popular belief that his speech was inspiredby the Deity betrays a very humble opinion both of theman and of the times.0—" You behold (said the emperor)the ensigns of supreme power. You are about to receivethem not from my hand, but from the hand of God.Honour them, and from them you will derive honour.Respect the empress your mother ; you are now her son;before, you were her servant. Delight not in blood, ab­stain from revenge, avoid those actions by which I haveincurred the public hatred, and consult the experiencerather than the example of your predecessor. As a man,I have sinned; as a sinner, even in this life, I have beenseverely punished : but these servants (and he pointed tohis ministers) who have abused my confidence, and in-flamedmy passions, willappear with mebeforethe tribunalof Christ. I have been dazzled by the splendour of the b The praise bestowed on princes before their elevation, is the purest and mostweighty. Corippus has celebrated Tiberius at the time of the accession of Justin.(lib. 1. 212—222.) Yet even a captain of the guards might attract the flattery of anAfrican exile. c Evagrius (lib. 5. c. 13.) has added the reproach to his ministers. He applies thisspeech to the ceremony when Tiberius was invested with the rank of Caesar. The looseexpression, rather than the positive error, of Theophanes, &o. has delayed it to hisAugustan investituro immediately before the death of Justin. 2 E 2