OCR Output 24 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIV. crine port, were assigned for the ordinary repairs of thewalls and public edifices. A similar care was extendedto the statues of metal or marble, of men or animals.The spirit of the horses, which have given a modernname to the Quirinal, was applauded by the barba­rians;" the brazen elephants of the Via sacra were dili­gently restoredthe famous heifer of Myron deceivedthe cattle, as they were driven through the forum ofpeace/ and an officer was created to protect these worksof art, which Theodoric considered as the noblest orna-, ment of his kingdom. !?a°terofh:ng After the example of the last emperors, TheodoricItaly. preferred the residence of Ravenna, where he cultivatedan orchard with his own hands.2 As often as the peaceof his kingdom was threatened (for it was never invaded)by the barbarians, he removed his court to Verona" onthe northern frontier, and the image of his palace, stillextant, on a coin, represents the oldest and most authen­tic model of Gothic architecture. These two capitals, aswell as Pavia, Spoleto, Naples, and the rest of the Italiancities, acquired under his reign the useful or splendiddecorations of churches, aqueducts, baths, porticos, and,palaces.b But the happiness of the subject was moretruly conspicuous in the busy scene of labour and luxury,in the rapid increase and bold enjoyment of nationalwealth: from the shades of Tibur and Praeneste, the u Var. 7. 15. These horses of Monte-Cavallo had been transported from Alexandriato the haths of Constantine. (Nardini, p. 188.) Their sculpture is disdained by theabbe Dnbos, (Reflections sur la Poesie et sur la Peiuture, tom. 1. section 39.) and ad­mired by Winkleman. (Hist. de l'Art, tom. 2. p. 159.) x Var. 10. 10. They were prohably a fragment of some triumphal car. (Cuperde Elephantis, 2. 10.) J Procopius (Goth. lib. 4. c. 21.) relates a foolish story of Myron's cow, which iscelebrated by the false wit of thirty-six Greek epigrams. (Anthalog. lib. 4. p. 302—306. edit. Hen. Steph. Auson. Epigram. 58—68.) 1 See an Epigram of Ennodius (2. 3. p. 1893, 1894.) on this garden and the royalgardener. » His affection for' that city is proved by the epithet of " Verona taa," and the le­gend of the hero: under the harharous name of Dietrich of Bern, (Peringsciold adCochloeum, p. 240.) Maffei traces him with knowledge and pleasure in his native coun­try, (lib. 9. p. 230—236.) k See Maffei, Verona lllustrata, part 1. p. 231, 232. 308, &c. He imputes Go­thic architecture, like the corruption of language, writing, &c. not to the harharians,hot to the Italians themselves. Compare his sentiments with those of Tiraboschi(tom. 3. p. 61.)