OCR Output PYLUS. PYLUS. 685 lis eastern tide or towards the lagoon; while on the••'-era tide or towards the open sea it slopes gra- — iy, particularly on the SW., where Demosthenes. w«M in preventing the landing of Brasidas andUc Lacedaemonians. The promontory is higher at - r -Tthem end. Below the ruined fortress at thesrthern end there is a fine cavern, called Voidho-f<^> (BoiU-KoiW), •' the ox's belly," which gives«* to the mall circuUr port immediately belowt, ahicb has been already Epoken of. This cavern H left long. 40 wide, and 40 high, having a roofi*e • Gothic arch. Tbe entrance is triangular, 30■< »j; aud 12 high; at the top of the cavern there■ »n opening in the surface of the hill above.'4i can was, according to the Peloponnesian tra-■aon. the one into which the infant Hermes drovel» cattle be had stolen from Apollo. It is men-is tbe Homeric hymn to Hermes as situated[■» the sea-side (v. 341); but in Antoninus Li-nu (e. 23) it is expressly said to have been atrtptasium. In Ovid (SfeL ii. 684) Mercury is7^-aud as beholding from Mt. Cyllene the un-Uft-d cattle proceeding into the fields of Pylus.The hay of Voidho-Kilid is separated by a lowij.-:rro!ar ridge of sand from the large shallow, of Omyn-Aga. As neither Thucydides noriwrtti says a word about this lagoon, which nownm » striking a feature in tbe topography of thiserrt, we may confidently conclude, with Leake,j» :: i» of recent formation. The peninsula must,Ual case, have been surrounded with a sandya Pauaanias describes it; and accordingly,n f appose this to have been the site of theewric Pylus, the epithet iiiut66tis, which theilly giTes to it, would be perfectly ap- Ji* Athenians did not surrender their fortress atto the Lacedaemonians in accordance with I treaty made in B. c. 421 (Thuc v. 35), but pnae&feion of it lor fifteen years, and only II towards the close of the Peloponnesian War.ad. xui. 64.) On tbe restoration of the Meg-ana to their country by Epaminondas, Pylusa> appears in history. Tbe remains of the walls■sty described belong to this period. On more■ me onrawinn there was a depute between the■auaa and Achaeans respecting the possessionta« place. (Lit. xxvii. 30; Polyb. xviii. 25.)Revisited by I'ausaniai, who saw there a templelUcsa Coryphaeia, the so-named house of Nestor,sax( a pact ore of him, his tomb, and a cavern11> bate been the stable of the oxen of NeleusStmt. He describes the latter as within the. «L»b n»t therefore have extended nearly tot.-jiera czmI of the promontory, as this cave is ■ally the one described above. (Pans. v. 36.)r> are imperial coins of this city bearing thets ki DaXivr, belonging to the time of Severus.IWl vei. H. p. 277.) It would appear from«- lial tlie restored city was also called Cory-bjcb. bode Jk says that '* at the time of theLeague there was a town of Coryphasium,a> Mara tram a coin, which shows that Cory-Baa] was a member of that confederacy." (i'e-•««, Ji 131) ar -seders name A varfno, corrupted, as already. Mo Xmxu two, is probably due to the Avars,affiled there in the sixth century of the Chris-era. The mediaeval castle was built by theiv rt the Frmnkiah chieftain William de laj- Her <k»ceijdmnts sought a more convenient place for their residence, and erected on the southernside of the harbour the Neokastro or modem A'a-rarino. It commanded the southern end of theharbour, which became more and more important asthe northern entrance became choked up. Con­taining, as it does, the best harbour in the Pelopon­nesus, Navarino constantly appears in modern his­tory. It was taken by the Turks in 1500. In1685 it was wrested from them by the Venetiancommander Morosini, and remained in the hands ofthe Venetians till 1715. In more recent times it ismemorable by the great battle fought in its bay, onthe 20th of October, 1827, between the Turkishfleet and tbe combined fleets of England, France,and Russia. (Curtius, Ptloponnaoa, vol. ii. p. 181.) It remains to speak of the site of the HomericPylos. According to a generally received tradition,Neleus, the son of Poseidon, migrated from lolcosin Thessaly, and founded on the west coast ofPeloponnesus a kingdom extending westward asfar as that of the Atridae, and northward as far asthe Alpheius, or even beyond this river. Neleusincurred the indignation of Hercules for refusing topurify him after the murder of his son Iphitus.Tbe hero took Pylus and killed Neleus, togetherwith eleven of his twelve sons. But his survivingson Nestor upheld the fame of his house, and, afterdistinguishing himself by his exploits in youth andmanhood, accompanied in his old age the Grecianchiefs in their expedition against Troy. Upon theinvasion of Peloponnesus by the Dorians, three gene­rations after Nestor, the Keloids quitted Pylus andremoved to Athens, where they obtained the kinglypower. The situation of this Pylus — the IMAosNij\^i'or, as it was called — was a subject of muchdispute among the Grecian geographers and gram­marians. Strabo (viii. p. 339) quotes a proverbialverse, in which three towns of this name werementioned — tan Tlv\os lrpb ru'Amrj- IIoXo? y4 fx4y ian ualSAAoj,— of which the former half—"Eoti X\v\oi rpbTlvKoio — was at least as old as the time of Aristo­phanes, when Pylus became famous by the captureof the Spartans at Sphacteria. (ArUtoph. Kquil.1059.) The claims of the Eleian Pylus to lie thecity of Nestor may be safely set on one side; andthe choice lies between the towns in Triphylia andMessenia. The ancients usually decided in favourof the Mcsseninn Pylos. This is the opinion ofTausanias (iv. 36), who unhesitatingly places thecity of Nestor on the promontory of Coryphasium,all hough, as we have already seen, he agreeswith the people of 1. that Homer, in describingthe Alpheius as flowing through the land of thePvliaus (//. v. 545), had a view to the Eleian city.(Paus. vi. 22. § 6.) It is however, much moreprobable that the "land of the Pylians" was usedby the poet to signify the whole kingdom of theNeleian Pylus, since he describes both Thryoessa onthe Alpheius and the cities on the Messenian gulfas the extreme or frontier places of Pylus. (0pw-6tooa w6\ts . . . vtari) w ^aootirof, Hxi. 712; Warm riuAov «.«ct'..nT«», //. ix. 153.)In this sense these expressions were understood byStrabo (viii. pp. 337, 350). It is curious thatPausanias, who paid so much attention to Homericantiquities, docs not even allude to the existence ofthe Triphylian Pylus. Pindar calls Nestor "theMessenian old man." (f'gtli. vi. 35.) Isocratc