OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1*3 Yet in the contest between Niger and Severus, one city deserves an sie2e of Byzantium. honourable exception. As Byzantium was one of the greatest passagesfrom Europe into Asia, it had been provided with a strong garrison,and a fleet of five hundred vessels anchored in the harbour Theimpetuosity of Severus disappointed this prudent scheme of defence;he left to his generals the siege of Byzantium, forced the less guardedpassage of the Hellespont, and impatient of a meaner enemy, pressedforward to encounter his rival. Byzantium, attacked by a numerousand increasing army, and afterwards by the whole naval power ofthe empire, sustained a siege of three years, and remained faithfulto the name and memory of Niger. The citizens and soldiers (weknow not from what cause) were animated with equal fury; se­veral of the principal officers of Niger, who despaired of, or whodisdained a pardon, had' thrown themselves into this last refuge:the fortifications were esteemed impregnable, and, in the defence ofthe place, a celebrated engineer displayed all the mechanic powersknown to the ancients s*. Byzantium, at length, surrendered tofamine. The magistrates and soldiers were put to the sword, thewalls demolished, the privileges suppressed, and the destined capitalof the east subsisted only as an open village, subject to the insultingjurisdiction of Perinthus. The historian Dion, who had admiredthe, flourishing, and lamented the desolate state of Byzantium, ac­cused the revenge of Severus, for depriving the Roman people ofthe strongest bulwark against the barbarians of Pontus and Asia 5!.The truth of this observation was but too well justified in thesucceeding age, when the Gothic fleets covered the Euxine, andpassed through the undefended Bosphorus into the center of the Me­diterranean. Both Niger and Albinus were discovered and put to death in Deaths oftheir flight from the field of battle. Their fate excited neither Jgdsurprise nor compassion. They had staked their lives against the Cruel conse_ * ^ ° quenccs of chance of empire, and suffered what they would have inflicted; the civil wars. R 2 nor