OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 297 the intire Peloponnesus under Lis dominion; even Ar-gos itself, not more celebrated for its ancient glorythan for the death of Pyrrhus. Now compare oursituation. How much more florishing was Italy whenPyrrhus attacked it! How much greater its strength,possessing so many commanders, so many armies, whichthe Punic war afterwards consumed! Yet was he ableto give it a violent shock, and advanced victorious al­most to the gates of Rome: and not the Tarentinesonly, and the inhabitants of that tract of Italy whichthey call the greater Greece, whom you may supposeto have been led by the similarity of language andname, but the Lucanian, the Bruttian, and the Sam-nite revolted from us. Do you believe that thesewould continue quiet and faithful if Philip shouldcome over to Italy, because they continued faithfulafterwards, and during the Punic war? Be assuredthose states will never fail to revolt from us, exceptwhen there is no one to whom they can go over. Ifyou had disapproved of a Roman army passing intoAfrica, you would this day have had Hannibal and theCarthaginians to contend with in Italy. Let Macedo­nia, rather than Italy, be the seat of war. Let thecities and lands of the enemy be wasted with fire andsword. We have already found, by experience, thatour arms are more powerful and more successfulabroad than at home. Go, and give your voices withthe blessing of the gods; and what the senate havevoted do you ratify by your order. This resolution isrecommended to you, not only by your consul, buteven by the immortal gods themselves; who, when Ioffered sacrifice, and prayed that the issue of this warmight be happy and prosperous to me and to the se­nate, to you and the allies and Latine confederates,granted every omen of success and happiness.' 8. After this speech of Sulpicius, being sent to givetheir votes, they declared for the war as he had pro­posed. On which, in pursuance of a decree of the se­nate, a supplication for three days was proclaimed bythe consuls; and prayers were offered to the gods at