OCR Output 194 THE LIFE OF FLAVICS JOSEFHUS. So when I had accomplished my desires, I returned back to thecity, being now nineteen years old, and began to conduct myselfaccording to the rules of the sect of the Pharisees, which is ofkin to the sect of the Stoics, as the Greeks call them. 3. But, when I was in the twenty-sixth year of my age, ithappened that 1 took a voyage to Rome, and this on the Occasionwhich I shall now describe. At the time when Felix was pro­curator of Judea, there were certain priests' of my acquaintance,and very excellent persons they were, whom on a small and trif*ling occasion he had put into bonds, and sent to Rome to pleadtheir cause before Caesar. These I was desirous to procure de­liverance for, and that especially because I was informed thatthey were not unmindful of piety towards God even under theirafflictions, but supported themselves with figs and nuts*. Ac­cordingly I came to Rome, though it were through a great num­ber of hazards by sea ; for, as our ship was drowned in the A-driatic sea, we that were in it, being about six hundred in num­ber f, swam for our lives all the night; when, upon the first ap­pearance of the day, and upon our sight of a ship of Cyrene, Iand some others, eighty in all, by God's providence, preventedthe rest, and were taken up into the other ship. And when Ihad thus escaped, and was come to Dicearchia, which the Italianscall Puteoli. I became acquainted with Aliturius, an actor of plays,and much beloved by Nero, but a Jew by birth ; through hisinterest became known to Poppea, Caesar's wife, and took care,as soon as possible, to entreat her to procure, that the priestsmight be set at liberty. And when, besides this favour, I hadobtained many presents from Poppea, I returned home again. 4. And now I perceived innovations were already begun, andthat there were a great many very much elevated in hopes of arevolt from the Romans. 1 therefore endeavoured to put a stopto these tumultuous persons, and persuaded them to change theirminds ; and laid before their eyes against whom it was that theywere going to fight, and told them that they were inferior to theRomans not only in martial skill, but also in good fortune; and de­sired them not rashly, and after the most foolish manner, to bringon the dangers of the most terrible mischiefs upon their country,upon their families, and upon themselves. And this I said with vehement * We may note here, that religions men among the Jews, or at least thosethat were priests, were sometimes asceticks also, and, like Daniel and his com-panions in Babylon, Dan. i. 8.—16. ate no flesh, but Jigs and nuts, &c. only.This was like the \ip€*yi*, or austere diets of the Christian asceticks in Passionweek. Constitut. V. iS. t It hath been thought the number of Paul and his companions on ship-board,Acts, xxvii. 38 which aie 776 in our copies, are too many; whereas wc find here,that Josephus and his companions, a very few years after the other, were about60s.