OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 203 that do as they ought to do, delivered me still out of the handsof these my enemies, and afterward preserved me when I fellinto those many dangers which I shall relate hereafter. 16. Now the multitude of the Galileans had that great kind­ness for me, and fidelity to me, that when their cities were takenby force, and their wives and children carried into slavery, theydid not so deeply lament for their own calamities, as they weresolicitous for my preservation. But when John saw this, he en­vied me, and wrote to me, desiring that I would give him leaveto come down, and make use of the hot-baths of Tiberias forthe recovery of the health of his body. Accordingly, I did nothinder him, as having no suspicion of any wicked designs ofhis ; and I wrote to those to whom I had committed the admi­nistration of the affairs of Tiberias by name, that they shouldprovide a lodging for John, and for such as should come withhim, and should procure him what necessaries soever he shouldstand in need of. Now at this time my abode was in a villageof Galilee, which is named Cana. 17. But when John was come to the city of Tiberias, he per­suaded the men to revolt from their fidelity to me, and to adhereto him ; and many of them gladly received that invitation of his,as ever fond of innovations, and by nature disposed to changes,and delighting in seditions ; but they were chiefly Justus and hisfather Pistus, that were earnest in their revolt from me, andtheir adherence to John. But I came upon them, and preventedthem ; for a messenger had come to me Irom Silas, whom I hadmade governor of Tiberias, as I have said already, and had toldme of the inclinations of the people of Tiberias, and advised meto make haste thither ; for that, if I made any delay, the citywould come under another's jurisdiction. Upon the receipt ofthis letter of Silas, I took two hundred men along with me, andtravelled all night, having sent before a messenger to let thepeople of Tiberias know that I was coming to them. When Icame near to the city, which was early in the morning, the mul­titude came out to meet me ; and John came with them, and sa­luted me, but in a most disturbed manner, as being afraid thatmy coming was to call him to an account for what I was nowsensible he was doing. So he, in great haste, went to his lod­ging. But when I was in the open place of the city, having dis­missed the guards I had about me, excepting one, and ten armedmen that were with him, I attempted to make a speech to themultitude of the people of Tiberias: and, standing on a certainelevated place, I entreated them not to be so hasty in their re­volt ; for that such a change in their behaviour would be to theirreproach, and that they would then justly be suspected by those C c 2 ' that­