OCR Output MAURETANIA. 207 MAURETANIA. § 3; Sail Jug. 19; Pomp. Mela, i. 4. § 3; Lit. xxi.22, xxviii. 17; Herat. Corn. i. 22. 2, ii. 6. 3, lit.10. IS; Tac. Ann. ii. 52, iv. 523, xiv. 28, Hist. i.78, ii. 58, iv. 50; Lucan, iv. 678; Jut. t. 53, Ti.337; Flor. iii. 1, it. 2); hence the name Maure-ta.hu (the proper form-as it appears in inscrip­tions, Orelli, Inter. 485, 3570, 3672; and on coins,Erkhel, vol. ti. p. 48; comp. Tzchucke, ad Pomp.Mela. i. 5. § 1) or Mauritania (Wlavpnavia, Ptol.iT. 1. §2; Caes. B. C. i. 6, 39; Hirt. B. Afr. 22;Pomp. Mela, i. 5; Pun. t. 1; Eutrop. iT. 27, viii. 5;Flor. iv. (the MSS. and printed editions vary be­tween this form and that of Manretania); tj Mau-foivuer yfi, Strab. p. 827). These Moors, whomust not be considered as a different race from theXumidians, but as a tribe belonging to the samestock, were represented by Sallust (Jug. 21) as aremnant of the army of Hercules, and by Procopius(S. V. ii. 10) as the posterity of the Cananaeanswho fled from the robber (ajjot^s) Joshua; hequotes two columns with a Phoenician inscription.Procopius has been supposed to be the only, or atfea*t the most ancient, author who mentions tillsUBcripti'iin, and the invention of it has been attri­buted to himself; it occurs, howeTer, in the historyof Mows of Chorene (i. 18), who wrote more thana century before Procopius. The same inscriptionU mentioned by Suidas (*. v. Xaviay), who probablyqontes from Procopius. According to most of theArabian writers, who adopted a nearly similar tradi­tion, the indigenous inhabitants of N. Africa werethe people of Palestine, expelled by David, whopftssed into Africa under the guidance of Goiiah,»him they call Djaluut. (St Martin, Le Beau, BosEmpire, vol. xi. p. 328; comp. Gibbon, c xli.)Thew traditions, though so palpably fabulous, open> field to conjecture. Without entering into this, itswms certain that the Berber* or Berebers, fromwb'-m it has been conjectured that N. Africa receivedthe name of Barbary or Barbaria, and whose lan-Eaa^e has been preserved in remote mountainoustracts, as well as in the distant regions of the desert,»re the representatives of the ancient inhabitants ofJUnre'ania. (Comp. Prichard, Physical Hist, ofttmiind. vol ii. pp. 15—43.) Tho gentile nameof the Berbers—Amazigh, " the noble language"—» fooitd, according to an ebservation of Castiglione,even in Herodotus (iv. 191, ed. Bahr).— where thecorrect fjrm is Mazyes (Mafiies, Hecataeus, ap.Slrpk B. s. r.), which occurs in the MSS., whilethe printed editions erroneously give Mofutj (Nic-bohr, Led. on Arte. Ethnog. and Geog. vol. ii.p. 334), — as well as in the later Mazices of Am-mimns Marcellinus (xxix. 5; Le Beau, Bos Em-fin, ToL iii. p. 471; comp. Gibbon, c xxv.). II. Physical Geography. Fran the extraordinary capabilities of the soil —«w vast cum plain extending from the foot of Atlasto the shores of the Atlantic — Mauretania wasformerly the granary of the world. (I'liu. XTiii. 20.)Under a bigoted and fanatical goTernment, the landthat might give food to millions, is now coveredwoh weeds. Throughout the plains, which rise by•kn* great steps to the mountains, there is great*«nt of wood; even on tlie skirts of the Atlas, thotimber does not reach any great size — nothing tojustify the expression of Pliny (" opacum nemo-psumqiie v. 1 ; comp. Joum. Geog. Soc. vol. i. pp.123—155; Barth. Wanderungen).SUabo(xTii. pp. 826—832) has given an account of the productions of Manretania, marvellous enough,in some particulars, as where he describes weasels aslargo as cats, and leeches 10 ft. long; and amongother animals the crocodile, which there can scarcelybe any river of Morocco capable of nourishing, evenif the climate were to permit it. (In Aegypt, wherethe average heat is equal to that of Senegambia, thecrocodile is seldom seen so low as Siouf) Pliny(viii. 1) agrees with Strabo (p. 827) in assertingthat Mauretania produced elephants. As the wholeof Barbary is more European than African, it maybe doubted whether the elephant, which is no longerfound there, was ever indigenous, though it mayhave been naturalised by the Carthaginians, towhom elephants were of importance, as part of theirmilitary establishment. Appian (B. P. 9) saysthat when preparing for their last war with theRomans, they sent Hssdrubal, son of Gisco, to huntelephants; he could have hardly gone into AethiopiAfor this purpose. Shaw (Trav. p. 258; Jackson,Morocco, p. 55) confirms, in great measure, thestatements of Strabo (p. 830) and of Aelian (II. A.iii. 136, vi. 20) about the scorpion and the "pha-langium," a species of the "arachnidao." The "so-litanns," of which Varro (de lie Rusiica, iv. 14. § 4;Plin. ix. 82) gives so wonderful an account, hasnot been identified. Copper is still worked as inthe days of Strabo (p. 830), and the natives con­tinue to preserve the grain, legumes, and other pro­duce of their husbandry in "matmoures," or conicalexcavations in the ground, as recorded by Pliny(xviii. 73; Shaw, p. 221). Mauretania, which may be described generally nsthe highlands of N. Africa,elevates itself like an islandbetween the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, and thegreat ocean of sand which cuts it off towards the S. andE. This " plateau " separates itself from the rest ofAfrica, and approximates, in the form and structure,the height, and arrangement of its elevated masses, tothe system of mountains in the Spanish peninsula,of which, if the straits of the Mediterranean weredried up, it would form a part. A description ofthese Atlantic highlands is given in the article AT1.AS. Many rivers flow from this great range, andfall into the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic. Ofthese, the most important on the N. coast were,in a direction from E. to W., the Ampsaoa, Usak,Chinalaph, and Mulucha; on the W. coast, in adirection from NE.to SW., the Suecr.Sai^,Phutii,and Lixus. The ci»st-line, after passing the Ampsaga ( Wad-eUKibir) and Sinus Numidicus, has the harboursIoii-gius (Jijeli), Saldae Ps. (Bujeiyah), andRusuci/rrium (TeiRez). Weighing from Algiers,and passing Iomnitm (Ras-al~Kanatir), to standtowards the W., there is a rocky and precipitouscoast, mostly bold, in which in succession were theports and creeks Iol (Zershell), Cartenna (Tenez),MuRt.STAOA (Mostaghanom), Arsenaria (Ar-zdn), Qijiza (Wahran or Oran); Portus Mag­nus (Marsa Kibir), within Mktagonium Prom.(Ras-al Harsbah); and Acra (Ishgiin). TheMuluciia falls into the Gulf of Melilah of thocharts. About 10 miles to the NW. of this riverlay the Tres Insulae (Zaphran or Ja'ferHgroup); about 30 miles distant from theserocks, on a NW. by W. rhumb, was RusadirProm. (Cup Tres Forcas of the Spanish pilots,or lias-utl-Dehor of the natives), and in the bightfarmed between it and the Mulucha stood Kisauik