OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. might have crushed, at their first landing, the feeble andexhausted bands of the Roman general. But the friendsof the captive king were more inclined to accept the in­vitations, than to resist the progress, of Belisarius; andmany a proud barbarian disguised his aversion to war un­der the more specious name of his hatred to the usurper.Yet the authority and promises of Gelimer collected aformidable army, and his plans were concerted withsome degree of military skill. An order was dispatchedto his brother Ammatas, to collect all the forces of Car­thage, and to encounter the van of the Roman army atthe distance of ten miles from the city; his nephew Gi-bamund, with two thousand horse, was destined to attacktheir left, when the monarch himself, who silently fol­lowed, should charge their rear, in a situation which ex­cluded them from the aid, or even the view, of their fleet.But the rashness of Ammatas was fatal to himself and hiscountry. He anticipated the hour of attack, outstrippedhis tardy followers, and was pierced with a mortal wound,after he had slain with his own hand twelve of his boldestantagonists. His Vandals fled to Carthage; the high­way, almost ten miles, was strewed with dead bodies; andit seemed incredible, that such multitudes could beslaughtered by the swords of three hundred Romans. Thenephew of Gelimer was defeated, after a slight combat, bythe six hundred Massagetas: they did not equal thethird part of his numbers: but each Scythian was firedby the example of his chief, who gloriously exercised theprivilege of his family, by riding foremost and alone toshoot the first arrow against the enemy. In the mean­while, Gelimer himself, ignorant of the event, and mis­guided by the windings of the hills, inadvertently passedthe Roman army, and reached the scene of action whereAmmatas had fallen. He wept the fate of his brotherand of Carthage, charged with irresistible fury the ad­vancing squadrons, and might have pursued, and perhapsdecided, the victory, if he had not wasted those inesti­