OCR Output 680 PUTEOLI. PUTEOLI. Puteoli certainly continued to enjoy under the 1Empire the rank of a colony. (Plin. in. 5. s, 9;OrelL Inscr. 1094,3097. &c.) In addition to theoriginal u colon la cirium" settled there, as alreadymentioned, in b.c 194, it appears to hare receiveda fresh colony under Sulla (Val. Max. ix. 3. § 8;Pint. 5a//. 37; Zumpt, tie Colon, p. 260), and cer­tainly was again colonised by Augu;>tus. {Lib. Col.p. 236.) The inhabitants hail, as we learn fromCicero {JPhU, ii. 41), warmly espoused the cause ofBrutus and Cassias after the death of Caesar,whichmay have been one reason why Augustus sought tosecure so important a point with a colony of veterans.But, jis was often the case, the old inhabitants seemto have continued apart from the colonists, Withseparate municipal rights, and it was not till thereign of Nero that these also obtained admissioninto the colony. (Tac. Ann. xiv. 27.) In a. D. G9the Puteolani zcalou.vly espoused the cause of Ves­pasian (Tat Hist. iii. 07), and it was probably inconsequence of this that the city afterwards assumedthe honorary title of '' Colonia Flavia AugustaPutculi," by which we find it designated in inscrip­tions. (Orel). Irtscr. 3G93; Zumpt, I.e. p. 395;Monunsen, 2492. 2493.) It is not improbable, how­ever, that it may at the same time have received afresh accession of colonists. In addition to its commercial importance, rnteoli,or rather its immediate neighbourhood, became,before the close of the Republic, a favourite resort ofthe Roman nobility, in common with Baiae and thewhole of this beautiful district. Thus Cicero, as welearn from himself, had a villa there, to which hegave the name of Acadcmia, but which he moreoften mentions merely as his Puteolanum. (Cic. deFat. 1, ad Att. i. 4, xiv. 7, xv. 1, &c.) It passedafter his death into the hands of Antistius Vet us,and the outbreak of a thermal spring there becamethe occasion of a well-known epigram, which liasbeen preserved to us by Pliny. (Plin. xxxi. 2. s. 3.)This villa was situated between Puteoli and 1 holake A vermis; it was subsequently chosen as theplace of burial of the emperor Hadrian. (Spart.Badr. 25.) We hear little of Puteoli in history during thelater periods of the Roman Empire, but them isever)- reason to suppose that it continued to be aflour^hing and populous town. Its mole and portwere repaired by Antoninus Pius (Mommsen, laser.249o), and numerous inscriptions hare been foundthere, some of which belong to a late period, andattest the continued importance of the city down tothe reign of Honor!US, (Mommsen, 2494—2500.)But it shared to the full extent in the calamities ofthe declining empire: it was taken and plunderedby Alaric in a. D. 410. and again by Generic in455, and by Totila in 545. Nor did it ever recoverthese repeated disasters. After having for sometime been almost deserted, it partially revived in themiddle ages; but again suffered severely, both fromthe ravages of war and from the voleanic eruptionsof the Solj'atiiT-a in 119S, and of the Monte Nuovoin 1538. At the present day PuzzwtlL though re­taining its episcopal see. and about 8000 inhabitants,is a poor place, and suffers severely from malaria insummer. It, however, retains many remains of its ancientgreatness. Among the>e one of the most conspi­cuous is the amphitheatre, on the hill behind thetown, which is of considerable size, being largerthan thai at Pompeii, and calculated to be capable of containing 25,000 spectators. It is in pwl ob­servation, and, having been recently excavated aaicleared out, affords in many respects a cood *f**men of such structures. It derives »ddiu«al a>terest from being more than once allowed to Ifancient writers. Thus Suetonius mentions uajAugustus presided at games there, and it m 4consequence of an insult offered to a senator tUOccasion that the emperor pasted a law asapdBdistinct seats to the senatorial urder. (Sue*-Jrf44.) It was there ata> that Nero entertained Ts#dates, king of Armenia, with magnificext thaiboth uf gladiators and combats of *iid tavaj(Dion Cass. Ixiii. 3.) Near the amphitheade Isome ruins, commonly known as the tempiI>iana, but which more probably belonged tn siof thermae or baths; as well asreservoirs for water on a great scale, MM rfiare supposed to have been connected with tl* Iof the amphitheatre. Near them are the;of an aqueduct, intended for the supply of thai!which seems to have been a branch of that 1led to Misenum. In the city it.-elf tbfcathedral is in great p^rt constructed ool iremains of a Ron .an temple, w hich, as wan inscription on the architrave, wasAugustus by L. Calpurnius, Fminscript ion we learn that the architect «as L(ceius Auctus, evidently the same who U teeMMby Strabo as having been employed by A^rifMconstruct the tunnel at Posiltpo. (Motnmsa^ifl2484. 2485; Strab. v. p. 245.) The nuaasflof white marble, and there still remain fix keaflflCorinthian columns of the same material Much more celebrated than these art the naalof a building commonly known as the trafHSerapis or Serapeum. The interest wluca aflflto these is, however, more of a scientific thaaflquarian character, from the evidence tber irepeated changes in the level of the soil ithey stand. (Lyell, Principle* of GnJagm, Ip. 4S9, &c.; Daubeny On Volcano**, p>!The edifice is one of a peculiar character, sreceived attribution is very doubtfulsearches have rendered it more probablea building connected with the mineralrises within it, and was adapted both for jworship and for the medical use of the iquestion. The general plan U that ofquadrangular atrium or court, surrounded i| by a portico of 48 columns, with ch.irr.bisides, und a circular temple in thefrom the temple of Serapis are theother buildings, both of them now under ione of which is commonly known x» theNeptune, the other as the temple of thelbut there is no real foundation forWe know, however, from Cicero thattemple of Neptune at Puteoli, as mi£bt iexpected at so freqnented a seaport, andportico fronted the bay. (Cic. Acad, u 25.)'remains of the ancient mole have been afavssf|tioned; there are now portions of 16 piere 113 of which are still viable abore water. On the coast proceeding from Foezw*StLucrine lake (or rather on the ancientrises above t he low line of ca&t) are i(with at least more probability than in icases) those of the villa of Cicero, itainly, as we learn from Pliny, situateteoli and the Lucrine lake. (Pha xul 2. *>1