OCR Output 32 Ll VY. shall relate the matter as it has been handed down tous. While the principal persons of the state died bydisorders of the same kind, and which were attendedwith the same issue in every case, a certain maid ser­vant undertook, before Quintus Fabius Maximus, cu-rule edile, to discover the cause of the general malady,provided security were given ber, on the public faith,that she should not be a sufferer in consequence. Fa­bius immediately reported the affair to the consuls, andthe consuls to the senate ; and, by order of that body,the public faith was pledged to the informer. Shethen stated to them that the calamity which afflictedthe nation was caused by the wicked contrivances ofcertain women ; that some matrons were, at the time,preparing drugs for the purpose; and that, if theywould be pleased to go along with her without delay,they might detect them in the fact. Accordingly theyfollowed the informant, and found several women pre­paring drugs, and also quantities of the same laid up;which being brought into the forum, and the matronsin whose custody they were found, to the number oftwenty, being summoned by a beadle, two of them,Cornelia and Sergia, both of patrician families, assertedthat those drugs were wholesome ; while the informantmaintained the contrary, and insisted on their drinkingthem, in order to convict her of having invented afalsehood. On this, having taken time to confer toge­ther, and in the open view of all, a space being clearedfor them, they drank off the preparation, and all pe­rished by means of their own wicked device. Theirattendants, being instantly seized, gave informationagainst a great number of matrons, of whom no lessthan one hundred and seventy were condemned. Untilthat day no person had ever been tried at Rome forpoisoning. The affair was deemed a prodigy, andseemed more the result of madness than of vicious de­pravity. Wherefore, mention being found in the an­nals that formerly, on occasion of the secessions of thecommons, a disastrous time, the ceremony of drivingthe nail had been performed by a dictator, and that by