OCR Output 22 PLACIDU8. [B. III. timorous souls,) saw that the warriors ran always to thosecities whose walls had been built by Josephus, he marchedfuriously against Jotapata, which was of them all thestrongest, as supposing he should easily take it by a suddensurprise, and that he should thereby obtain great honor tohimself among the commanders, and bring a great advantageto them in their future campaign ; because, if this strongestplace of them all were once taken, the rest would be soaffrighted as to surrender themselves. But he was mightilymistaken in his undertaking; for the men of Jotapata wereapprized of his coming to attack them, and came-out of thecity, and expected him there. So they fought the Romansbriskly when they least expected it, being both many innumber, and prepared for fighting, and of great alacrity, asesteeming their country, their wives, and their children to bein danger, and easily put the Romans to flight, and woundedmany of them, and slew seven' of them; because their re足treat was not made in a disorderly manner; because thestrokes only touched the surface of their bodies, which werecovered with their armor in all parts, and because the Jewsdid rather throw their weapons upon them from a great dis足tance, than venture to come hand to hand with them, andhad only light armor on while the others were completelyarmed. However, three men of the Jews' side were slain,and a few wounded; so Placidus, finding himself unable toassault the city, ran away. 2. But as Vespasian had a great mind to fall upon Galilee,he marched out of Ptolemais, having put his army into thatorder wherein the Romans used to march. He ordered those 1I cannot but here observe an eastern way of speaking, frequent amongthem, but not usual among us, where the word only or alone is not set down,but, perhaps, someway supplied by the pronunciation. Thus Josephus heresays, that those of Jotapata slew seven of the Romans, as they were march足ing off; because the Romans' retreat was regular, their bodies were coveredover with their armor, and the Jews fought at some distance: his meaningis clear, that these were the reasons why they slew only, or no more thanseven. I have met with many the like examples in the Scripture inJosephus, &c, but did not note down the particular places. This obser足vation ought to be borne in mind upon many occasions.