OCR Output SCYTHTA. 943 SCYTHIA. 17 vdaleuJe change can be proved, or even reason-'h rupowed. Who can lie shown to have eliminatedif drnsitt Scythian population from any definiteniuaa occupancy? With the Greeks and Ro-11 the negative evidence is nearly conclusive to # urt that no such elimination ever took place,ill lie Barbarians might have displaced each*t a admitted; but there is no trustworthy evi-?-t to their having done so in any single- instance.i .ifinioos in favour of such changes rest uponUt the loose statements of insufficiently-informed.i*rs, or the supposed necessity of accounting forr appearance and change of certain names by-us of certain appearance and changes of popula­te T:.i bearings of this will appear in the notice ofEthnology of Scythia. They appear also underm Of the Sacae. to nomine, the history is obscure­ly- sense, indeed, it is a noneutity. There is no■ieal historian of the Sacae. How far the eth-aprt can infer tbem is a question which will bedad in the sequel. A the history of the populations akin to theae. the details are important; but then it is a his-'<>< the MasaagetAe, Parthi, &c, a history full ofsal pjehmiraries and points of inference rather5 rotimony. 'be Scythia of all the authors between Herodotusf^olemy means merely the country of theLiar, the Scythae being such northern nations-T-Soat being, eo nomine, Sarmatian, were Ha-sou and Hippemolgi; their habits of milking - lira and travelling in tented wagons beingr -axt gennine characteristic* These it was■j determined the views of even Strabo, whose of Germania and Galatia (already noticed)i n do room for a Scythia or even a Sarmatia;una, which is to Ptolemy as Germania was tobe. far the Sannatia of Ptolemy leaves no room—->'pe tor a Scythia; indeed, it cuts deeply intobe Scythia, the only triiLi or I*tolkmv.—The Scythia of PtolemyrlwrcJ/ Asiatic, falling into, 1. The Scythia. the Imaus. 2. The Scythia beyond thea. n li a geographical division, not an ethno-L one. Scythae Alauni are especially recog- i* a population of European Sarmatiu. i'l-tit-my a Sannatia seems to have been formedt aa extension of the area of the lleindotcanc-Aiae, his Scythia seems to have grown out*■ ruterri Scythae of the Herodotean Si-ythia,.!* Scythae of Orenburg. It did not grow out'mury otf tlie Sacae, inasmuch as they areuand separately; even as the Jazygcs of the • were separated from the Saniialians. TheKau-ir, however, of the Herodotean account lake the Sacae Scythians. They may be*>J af first. x Sacae or Ptolkmy were bounded by themm ob tfa* west, the Scythians on the north,i* S-rra on the east. Tbev wero nomads,r.t livni, and resident in woods and caves. iuntain-nujee of the Comedi (tj Ku'UTj5tivI) was in their country ; m> was the Stonep {A*#mrt Tl-yyoi). The populations were:T:* Caratae and Comari along the Jaxartes. - Coeiic, on the Comedian mountain. 4.IE M^r'ie along the range of tho Ascatancaszra-Taaf). 5. lu the interjacent country, the Grynaei Scythae; and, 6, the Toornae; south ofwhom, along the Imaus, 7, the Byltae. (l'tol. vi.13.) Scythia intiia Imaim.—Bounded on the S.and K. by Sogdiana, Margiana, and the Sarae; onthe W. by the Caspian and Sannatia Asiatica; onthe N. by a terra incognita; and on the E. by thenorthern prolongation of the Imaus. (Ptol. vi. 14.) Rivers. — The Kliyinmus, the Daix, the Jaxartes,the Iasrus, and the Polytimetus. Mountains.— The eastern part of the MontesHyperborei, the Montes Alani (observe the reappear­ance of this name), the Montes Khymmici, the MuniNomssus, the MM. Aspisii, Tapyri, Syebi, Anarei,—all W. of the Imaus. Populations.—The Alani Scythae (on the con­fines of the terra incognita), the Suabeni, the Ala-norsi, S. of whom the Saetiani, and Massaei, and Syebi;and (along the Imaus) the Tectosaces and (on theeastern head-waters of the Mia) the Khobosci, S. ofwhom the Asmani; and then the Paniardi, S. ofwhom, along the river, the district called Canodipsas,S. of which the Coraxi; then the Orgasi, after whom,as far as the sea (i. e. the Caspian, in this chaptercalled Hyrcanian), the Erymmi, with the Asiotae onthe E. of them, succeeded by the Aorsi; after whomthe Jazartae, a great nation along the river of thesame name; then S. of the Saetiani, the Mologeniand Samnitae, as far as the MM. Rhymmici. Then,S. of the Massaei and MM. Alani, the Zaratae andSasones; and further W. and as far as the MM.Rhymmici, the Tybiacae, succeeded by the Tabieni,S. of the Zaratae, and the Iastae and Machaetegialong the Mons Norossns; S. of whom the Norosbesand Norossi, and the Cachagae Scythae alongthe Jaxartae. On the W. of the MM. Aspisii, theAspisii Scythae; on the E. the Galactophagi Scythae;E. of tho MM. Tapuri and the Suebi, the Tapurei;and above the MM. Anarei and the Mons Ascatancas,the Scythae Anarei, and the Ascatancae and Ariacaealong the Jaxartes, S. of whom the Namastae; thenthe Sagarancae, and, along the Oxus, the Rhibii,with their town Davaba. Scythia kxtka Ihaum was bounded by Scythiaintra Imaum, the Sacae, the Terra ln:ognita, andthe Seres. It contained the western part of MM.Auxacii, Cash and Emodi, with the source of thoriver Oechardus. (Ptol. vi. 15.) Its Populations were the Abii Scythae, the Hippo-phagi Scythae, the Cliatae Scythae, the CharaunaeiScythae; the designation Scythae being applied toeach. Districts.—The Auxacitis, the Cask. (>? KaWa,\avfl). the Achasa (17 'Ax-wra xwpa). Towns.—Auxacia, Issedon, Scytliira, Ciiaurana,Seta. The remarks that applied to the Sarmatia Asiatlraof Ptolemy apply here. Few names can be safelyidentified. Neither is it safe to say through whatlanguages the information came. Some words sug­gest a Persian, some a Turk source, some are Mon­gol. Then the geography is obscure. That therange of Pamer was unduly prolonged northwards isevident [Imaus]; this being an error of the geo­grapher. The courses, however, of the Oxus andJaxartes may themselves have changed. The prolongation of the Pamer range being carriedin a northern and north-eastern direction, so as toinclude not only the drainages of the Oxus and Jax­artes, but that of the Balkash Lake as well, givoaus the line of the Imaus ; the terra incognita to the