OCR Output 376 livy. in their full force. At length Aristssnus, the pretor ofthe Achaeans, not to dismiss the council without anybusiness being introduced, said: 'Acheeans, where arenow those violent disputes, in which, at your feastsand meetings, whenever mention was made of Philipand the Romans, you scarcely refrained from blows?Now, in a general assembly, summoned on that singlebusiness, when you have heard the arguments of theambassadors on both sides, when the magistrates de­mand your opinions, when the herald calls you to de­clare your sentiments, you are struck dumb. Althoughyour concern for the common safety be insufficient fordetermining the matter, cannot the party zeal whichhas attached you to one side or the other extort a wordfrom any one of you? especially when none is so blindas not to perceive that the time for declaring and re­commending what each either wishes or thinks mostadvisable, must be at the present moment; that is, be­fore we make any decree. When a decree shall beonce passed, every man, even such as at first may havedisapproved the measure, must then support it as goodand salutary.' These persuasions of the pretor, so farfrom prevailing on any one person to declare his opi­nion, did not excite in all that numerous assembly, col­lected out of so many states, so much as a.murmur ora whisper. 21. Then the pretor, Aristaenus, proceeded thus:—'Chiefs of Achaea, you are not more at a loss what ad­vice to give than you are for words to deliver it in; butevery one is unwilling to promote the interest of thepublic at the risk of danger to himself. Were I in aprivate character, perhaps I too should be silent; but,as pretor, it is my duty to declare that I see evidently,either that the ambassadors ought to have been refusedan audience of the council, or that they ought not to bedismissed from it without an answer. Yet how can Igive them an answer, unless by a decree of yours?And, since not one of you who have been called to thisassembly either chooses or dares to make known hissentiments, let us examine (as if they were opinions