OCR Output 474 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. revenged. He then drew up his army in the best orderof battle possible, amidst the ruins of the city, and onuneven ground, and took all the precautions that mili­tary skill could suggest to insure success. The Gauls, confounded at this revolution, ran to theirarms, and rushed against the Romans with more fur:than prudence. Affairs now wore quite a different as­pect, for the protection of the gods and human wisdomunited in favour of the Romans. For which reason theGauls were defeated at the first charge, with the sameease they had conquered at tho battle of Allia. They were a second time routed stilt more completely•under the conduct and auspices of the same Camillas,eight miles from Rome, on the Gabinian way, whitherthey had fled. There the slaughter was total, their camptaken, and not a man escaped to carry home the melan­choly news of their disaster. Thus the dictator having recovered his country fromthe enemy, returned in triumph to Rome, and the sol­diers in their rough jollity, recognized him a second Ro­mulus the founder of a new Rome, eulogiums which beroost certainly deserved. But this was not all. Hiscountry, which he rescued from the enemy, he a secondtime saved from its friends. For he prevented the peo­ple from removing to Veii, though the tribunes madegreater effors to promote that emigration, after the citywas burnt, and the people themselves more devoted tothe project, than ever they had been before. . For thisreason, he did not abdicate the dictatorship after his tri­umph, but at the importunity of the senate, deserted notthe republic, whilst its unsettled state required his super­intendence. CHAP. L. Regulations after the eitmbian of the Gauls. F'IRt>T of al!, as he was exceedingly strict in whateverregarded religion, he took under consideration, what re­lated 10 the worship of the gods, and obtained a decreeof the senate; ' That all the temples, as they had beea* in the enemy's possession, should be re-established,« .bounded, and purified; and that the duumvirs, who had