OCR Output 360 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. superseding the ordinary magistracy, and practically atleast administered their office as one which was unlimitedin point of time. Or, we should rather say, this newoffice, with its absolute power based on a decree of thepeople and restrained by no set term or colleague, was noother than the old monarchy, which in fact just rested onthe free engagement of the burgesses to obey one of theirnumber as absolute lord. It was argued even by contem­poraries in vindication of Sulla that a king is better than abad constitution,* and it may be presumed that the title ofdictator was only chosen to indicate that, as. the formerdictatorship implied a reassumption with various limita­tions (i. 263, 294, 321), so this new dictatorship involved acomplete reassumption, of the regal power. Thus, singularlyenough, Sulla's course here also coincided with that onwhich Gains Gracchus had entered with so wholly differenta design. In this respect too the conservative party had toborrow from its opponents; the protector of the oligarchicconstitution had himself to come forward as a tyrant, inorder to avert the ever-impending tyrannis. There was nolittle of defeat in this last victory of the oligarchy.Executions. Sulla had not sought and had not desired the difficult anddreadful labour of the work of restoration ; but, as no othercourse was left to him but either to leave it in utterly in­capable hands or to undertake it himself, he set himself toit with remorseless energy. First of all a settlement had tobe effected in respect to the guilty. Sulla was in himselfinclined to pardon. Sanguine as he was in temperament, hemight occasionally give vent to violent rage, and well mightthose beware who saw his eye gleam and his cheek colour;but the chronic vindictiveness, which characterized Mariusin the irritability of his old age, was altogether foreign toSulla's easy disposition. Not only had he borne himselfwith comparatively great moderation after the revolution of88. 666 (P. 268); even the second revolution, which had perpetrated so fearful outrages and had affected him in personso severely, had not disturbed his equilibrium. At the sametime that the executioner was dragging the bodies of hisfriends through the streets of the capital, he had sought tosave the life of the blood-stained Fimbria, and, when thelatter died by his own hand, had given orders for his decent * Satias est uti regibus quam uti malts legibus (Ad Hercim. ii. 26).