OCR Output 332 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. The Corinthians, who had already been advised fromArgos of the approach of the Athenian armament, had longsince by way of prevention drawn their whole force togetherat the Isthmus, excepting what was in employ withoutthe Isthmus and the five hundred absent in the guard ofAmbracia and Leucadia. With all the rest of their peopleable to bear arms they were posted on the Isthmus to watchthe approach of the Athenians. But when the Athenian fleethad passed by undiscovered by favour of the night, and sig­nals notified their approach elsewhere, leaving half their forceat Cenchrea to obstruct any attempt of the Athenians uponCrommyon, they marched with all speed against the enemy.Battus one of their commanders (for there were two such inthe field) at the head of a separate body marched up to theopen village of Solygia in order to defend it, whilst Lycophronwith the remainder advanced to the charge. The Corinthiansfell first upon the right wing of the Athenians who were butjust landed before Cherronesus, and then proceeded to en­gage the whole of that army. The action was warm, andfought hand to hand. The right wing, consisting of theAthenians and also the Carysthians who were drawn up inthe rear, gave the Corinthians a warm reception, and withmuch difficulty repulsed them. Retreating therefore upwardsto a wall built of stone (for the ground was a continued as­cent), and being there above the enemy, they annoyed themwith stones ; and having sung their paean, rushed down uponthem again. The Athenians having stood the shock, theyengaged a second time hand to hand. But a band of Corin­thians being come up to the support of their own left wing,occasioned the rout of the right wing of the Athenians, andpursued them to the sea-side. But the Athenians andCarysthians now turned again, and beat them off from theships. In other parts of the action the dispute was resolute onboth sides, especially where the right wing of the Corinthi­ans, with Lycophron at its head, was engaging the left wing