OCR Output 158 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [ii. V. country, and those of profane persons with those of thepriests, and the blood of all sorts of dead carcasses stood inlakes In the holy courts themselves. And now, " O mostwretched city, what misery so great as this didst thou sufferfrom- the Romans, when they came to purify thee from thyintestine hatred ? For thou couldest be no longer a place fitfor God, nor couldest thou long continue in being, after thouhadst been a sepulehre for the bodies of thine own people,and hadst made the holy house itself a burying-place in thiscivil war of thine. Yet' mayest thou again grow better, ifperchance thou wilt hereafter appease the anger of that Godwho is the author of thy destruction." But I must restrainmyself from these passions by the rules of history, since thisis not a proper time for domestical lamentations, but for his足torical narrations: I, therefore, return to the operations thatfollow in this sedition. 4. And now there were three treacherous factions in thocity, the one parted from the other. Eleazar and his party,that kept the sacred first-fruits, came against John in theircups. Those that were with John plundered the populace,and went out with zeal against Simon. This Simon had hissupply of provisions from the city in opposition to the sedi足tious. When, therefore, John was assaulted on both sides,he made his men turn about, throwing his darts upon thosecitizens that came up against him, from the cloisters he hadin his possession, while he opposed those that attacked himfrom the temple by his engines of war. And if at any timehe was freed from those that were above him, which happenedfrequently, from their being drunk and tired, he sallied outwith a great number upon Simon and his party; and this hedid always in such parts of the city as he could come at, till 1 This is an excellent reflection of Josephus, including liis hopes of the re足storation of the Jews upon their repentance. See Antiq. Ii. iv. ch. vii. sect,46, which is the grand Hope of Israel, as Manasseh-ben-Israel, the famousJewish rabbi, stales it, in his small but remarkable treatise on that subject,of which the Jewish prophets are every where full. Sco the principal ofthose prophecies collected together at the end of the Essay on the Revela足tion, page Vl2. &c.