OCR Output LUCANIA. 'in? LUCANIA. Lacuna U evidently "the land of the Lu-ramans :" bat though no territorial designation inItaly became more clearly marked or generallyadapted than this appellation, it was not till a com­paratively late period that it came into use. Theonce of the Lucanians was wholly unknown to theGreeks in the days of Thucydides; and the tractsubsequently known as Lucania was up to thattime generally comprised under the vague appellationof Oenotria, while its coasts were included in thename of Magna Graecia. Scylax is the earliestaathor in whom the name of Lucania and the Lu­canians is found; and he describes them as extendingfrom the frontiers of the Somnites and Iapygians tothe southern extremity of the Bruttian peninsula.(Scyl. pp. 3, 4, 5. §§ 12, 13.) We are fortunatelysole to trace with certainty the historical causes ofthis change of designation. The earliest inhabitants of the part of Italy after­wards known as Lucania, were the Oenotrians andClwnes, tribes whom there is good reason to referto a Pelasgic stock. [Italia, p. 84. The fewparticulars transmitted to us concerning them arepven under Oknotria.] These races appear tohare heeu unwarlike, or at least incapable of offeringany material opposition to the arms of the Greeks;» that when the latter established a line of coloniesalong the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea and theCalf of Tarentum, they seem to have reduced thebarbarians of the interior to a state of at leastnominal subjection with but little difficulty. ThusSj-baris extended her power from sea to sea, andf-unded the colonies of Posidonia, Laiis, and Scidruson the western coast of Oenotria; while further totl* S. Crotona and Locri followed her example.It is probable, however, that other means wereemployed by the Greeks as well as arms. The1'tUsgic races of Oenotria were probably assimilatedwithout much difficulty with their Hellenic rulers;and there seems reason to believe that the nativeraces were to a considerable extent admitted to thejririleges of citizens, and formed no unimportantfknent in the population of the cities of llagualiraecia. (Niebuhr, voh i. p. 60.) The history oftte foundation and rise of the numerous Greekcolonies, which gradually formed as it were a belt,orirchng the whole southern peninsula of Italy,are more appropriately reserved for the articleHaoxA Gkaecla. It may here suffice to mentionthat the period immediately preceding the fall of Sy-baris (i: i ■. 51U) may be taken as that during whichthe Greek cities were at the height of their power,and when their dominion was most widely extended.But though many of those cities suffered severelyfrom domestic dissensions, we find no truce of anymaterial change in their relations with the neigh-tooring barbarians, till the appearance of the Lu-cinuma at once produced an entire change in the«p« of affairs. The Lucanians were, according to the general tes­timony of ancient writers, a Sabellian race,—an off-*aoat or branch of the Samuite nation, which, sepa-stiit; from the main body of that people, in the*ame manner as the Campanians, the Uirpini, andU* Frentaru hud severally done, pressed on stillfarther to the south, and established themselves inu* country subsequently known as Lucania. (Strab.vi p- 254; Flin. iii. 5. s. 10.) The origin of their*ast is unknown: for the derivation of it from aleader uf the name <if Lucius (l'lin. xxx. /. c; Etym.JLitn. ». r. AivKavoi) is too obviously a mere ety- Biological fiction of late days to deserve attention.Nor have we any distinct information as to the periodof their first appearance and establishment Strabodescribes them, without doubt, correctly, as firstexpelling (or more properly svbdmng) the Oeno­trians and Chones, and then turning their armsagainst the Greek cities on the coast. But it is nottill they come into contact with these last that wehave any account of their proceedings ; and we have,therefore, no information as to the commencement oftheir career. Even their wars with the Greeks areknown to us only in a very imperfect and fragmen­tary manner, so that we can scarcely trace the stepsof their progress. But it is probable that it was nottill after the conquest of Campania (about B. c. 420)that the Samnites began to extend their conqueststo the southward. Niebuhr has justly observedthat the tranquil foundation of the Athenian colonyat Thurii, in B. c. 442, and the period of prosperitywhich allowed it at first to rise rapidly to power,sufficiently prove that the Lucanians had not as yetbecome formidable neighbours to the Gauls, at leaston that side of the peninsula (Nieb. vol. i. p. 96).But they seemed to have first turned their armsajainst the Greek cities on the W. coast, and esta­blished a permanent footing in that quarter, beforethey came into collision with the mora piwerlul citieson the Tarentine gulf. (Strab. i. p. 254.) Posidoniawas apparently the first of the Greek cities whichyielded to their arms, though the date of its conquestis uncertain. [Paestum.J It was probably soon afterthis that the Thurians, under the command of Clean-dridas, were engaged in war with the Lucanians.in which they appeared to have obtained some con­siderable successes. (Polyaen, ii. 10.) But theprogress of the hitter was still unchecked; and theincreasing danger from their power led to the forma­tion, in B. c. 393, of a defensive league among all theprincipal cities of Magna Graecia, with a view ofresisting the Lucanians on the N., and the power ofDionysius on the S. (Diod. xiv. 91.) They mightreasonably suppose that their combined arms wouldeasily effect this; but only three years later, B. c.390, the forces of the confederates, among whomthe Thurians took the lead, sustained a great de­feat near Laiis, in which it is said that 10,000 of theGreeks perished. (Diod. xiv. 101, 102; Strab. vi.p. 253.) After this success, the Lucanians seem tohave spread themselves with but little oppositionthrough the southern peninsula of Italy. The warsof the elder Dionysius in that region must have in­directly favoured their progress by weakening theGreek cities; and though he did not openly supportthe Lucanians, it is evident that he looked upontheir successes with no unfavourable eyes. (Diod.xiv. 102.) Their continued advance towards thesouth, however, would soon render them in theirtum a source of umbrage to the Syracusan despots,who had established a permanent footing in theItalian peninsula; hence we find the younger Diony­sius engaged in hostilities with the Lucanians, butap|iarent)y with little success; and after a vainattempt to exclude them from the southernmostpeninsula of Bruttium, by fortifying the isthmusbetween the Hipponian and Scyllacian gulfs, he wasobliged to conclude a treaty of peace with them inB. c. 358. (Diod. xvi. 5; Strab. vi. p. 261.) This was about the period during which the Lu­canians had attained their greatest power, andextended their dominion to the limits which wefind assigned to them by Scylax (pp. 3, 4). They