OCR Output B. VL THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 117 ** and procured also from Crete, not forgetting slingers;** and, in fine, that whatever should be judged in any degree expedient should be provided in good time,"and carried along with them in the fleet." This the Athenians had no sooner heard, than theyinstantly voted, '».." That the generals were invested** with absolute authority, to determine the numbers"of the expedition, and the whole procedure of the"voyage, at their own discretion, as might best pro-"mote the public welfare." In pursuance of this, the preparations were immedi­ately in hand. Summonses for the quotas adjustedwere sent to their dependents, and the levies at homewent briskly forwards. Athens was now finely recover­ed from the pestilence and a long-continued destructivewar; both in a multitude of young men now arrived atthe vigour of their age, and an increase of the publicrevenues by favour of the peace. By this means all theneedful supplies were more easily provided; and thuswere the Athenians busied for the present in fitting outtheir armament. But, at this very juncture, almost all the statuesof Mercury, wherever found within the precincts of A-thens, and according to the established custom theywere very numerous, both in the porches of privatehouses and the public temples, f * * * * * had theirfaces disfigured in the space of one night. The authorsof this outrage were not known but large rewardswere osfered by the State in order to discover them, anda decree was also passed, that, "if any person knew of the '}- I have omitted two words in the original, because I cannot translate them withany precision or clearness. They are n ftToesymoc, toyouria, of us tuadratum, faysone Latin translator; opus ex Upide fuadrato, fays another. Mr. Hoiies hath it.Mercuries of square stone: How such a description can be applicable to a statue willbe hard to conceive. Whether they allude to the inclosure in which the statues wereerected, or to the form of the pedestals, or whether a Mercury was carved on any orall the sides of a souare stone, I am not able to decide. The Mercuries were verynumerous j and many of them, it is certain, were strange, uncouth, and very bung­ling performances. I 3 * * commission