OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVItIS JOSEPJIUS. 229 Very angry at them for this, for they perceived the wickedness of the men, I understood that a tumult was going to arise ; and being desirous to provoke the public to a greater rage against the men, I said, " But if I have not done well in paying our ambas- " sadors out of the public stock, leave off your anger at rr.e, for * I will repaythe twenty pieces of gold myself." 58. When I had said this, Jonathan and his colleagues heldtheir peace ; but the people were still more irritated against them,upon their openly shewing their unjust ill-will to me. WhenJesus saw this change in the people, he ordered them to depart,but desired the senate to stay ; for that they could not examinethings of such a nature in tumult; and, as the people were cry足ing out that they would not leave me alone, there came one andtold Jesus and his friends privately, that John and his armedmen were at hand : whereupon Jonathan and his colleagues,being able to contain themselves no longer, ("and perhaps the pro足vidence of God hereby procuring my deliverance, for, had notthis been so, I had certainly been destroyed by John), said, " O" you people of Tiberias ! leave off this inquiry about the twenty" pieces of gold ; for Josephus hath not deserved to die for them :*' but he hath deserved it by his desire of tyrannizing, and by" cheating the multitude of the Galileans with his speeches, in" order to gain the dominion over them." When he had saidthis, they presently laid hands upon me, and endeavoured to killme : but, as soon as those that were with me saw what they did,they drew their swords, and threatened to smite them, if theyoffered any violence to me. The people also took up stones, andwere about to throw them at Jonathan; and so they snatched mefrom the violence of my enemies. 59. But, I was going out a little way, I was just upon meet足ing John, who was inarching with his armed men. So I wasafraid of him, and turned aside, and escaped by a narrow pas足sage to the lake, and seized on a ship, and embarked in it, andsailed over to Taricheae. So, beyond my expectation, I escapedthis danger. Whereupon I presently sent for the chief of theGalileans, and told them after what manner, against all faithgiven, I had been very near to destruction from Jonathan andhis colleagues, and the people of Tiberias. Upon which the mill- 'titude of the Galileans were very angry, and encouraged me todelay no longer to make war upon them, but to permit them togo against John, and utterly to destroy him, as well as Jonathanand his colleagues. However, I restrained them, though theywere in such a rage, and desired them to tarry a while, till weshould be informed what orders those ambassadors, that weresent by them to the city of Jerusalem, should bring thence ; for