OCR Output 332 [book IX ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. TT^^SH P— of cattle. They also possessed themselves ofso many thousand measures of wheat and bar­ley, as they never in the least expected, andwere not only freed from their former mise­ries, but had such plenty, that two seahs ofbarley were bought for a shekel; and a seahof fine flour for a shekel; according to theprophecy of Elisha. Now a seah is equal toan Italian modius and a half. The captain ofthe third band was the only man that re­ceived no benefit by this plenty. For he wasappointed by the king to oversee the gate,that he might prevent the too great crowd ofthe multitude, and they might not endangerone another in the press; but he sufferedhimself in that very way, and was trodden*to death; as Elisha had predicted, when healone disbelieved what he said concerningthe plenty of provisions which they shouldsoon have. When Benhadad had escaped to Damascus,and understood that it was God himself thatcast all his army into disorder, and that itdid not arise from the invasion of enemies,he was greatly dejected at having God sogreatly for his enemy, and fell into a dis­temper. Now it happened that Elisha theprophet, at that time was gone out of hisown country to Damascus; of which whenBenhadad was informed, he sent Hazael, themost faithful of all his servants, to meet him,and to carry him presents, and bade himinquire about his distemper, and whether heshould escape the danger that it threatened.So Hazael came to Elisha with forty camels,laden with the best and most precious fruitsthat the country of Damascus afforded, aswell as those which the king's palace sup- plied. He saluted him kindly, and said, thathe w as sent to him, by king Benhadad, andbrought presents with him in order to inquireconcerning his distemper, whether he shouldrecover from it or not? whereupon the pro­phet bid him tell the king no melancholynews: but still he said he would die. Sothe king's servant was troubled to hear it.And Elisha wept also, and his tears randown plenteously at his foresight of whatmiseries his people would undergo after thedeath of Benhadad. And when Hazaelasked him what was the occasion of theconfusion he was in; he said, "Out of com­miseration for the multitude of the Is­raelites; and what terrible miseries theywill suffer by thee. For thou wilt slay thestrongest of them, and wilt burn the strongestcities, and wilt destroy their pregnant wo­men, and dash their children against thestones." And when Hazael said, "How canit be that 1 should have power enough todo such things?" the prophet replied, thatGod had informed him he should be kingof Syria. So when Hazael was come toBenhadad, he told him good news concern­ing his distemper:f but on the next day hespread a wet cloth, in the nature of a net,over him, and took his dominion.J He wasan active man, and had the good will of theSyrians, and of the people of Damascus: bywhom both Benhadad himself, and Hazael,who ruled after him, are honoured to thisday, as gods, by reason of their benefactions,and their building them temples; by whichthey adorned the city of the Damascens.They also do with great pomp pay theirdaily worship! to these kings; and value * 2 Kings vii. 20. t Since Elijah did not live to anoint Hazael, king ofSyria, - himself as he was empowered to do, 1 Kings xix.15. Antiq. VIII. 13, it was most probably now done, inhis name, by his servant and successor Elisha. Nor doesit seem to me otherwise, but that Benhadad immediatelyrecovered of his disease, as the prophet foretold; andthat Hazael, upon his being anointed to succeed him;though he ought to have staid till he died by the courseof nature, or some other way of divine punishment; asdid David for many years in the like case; was too im­patient, and the very next day smothered or strangledhim, in order to come directly to the succession. J 2 Kings viii. 15. || What M. Le Clerc pretends here, that it is moreprobable that Hazael and his son were worshipped by theSyrians, and people of Damascus, till the days of Jose- phus, than Benhadad and Hazael: because under Ben­hadad they had greatly suffered; and because it is almostincredible, that both a king and the king's murderershould be worshipped by the same people, is of littleforce against those records, out of which Josephus drewthis history; especially when it is likely that they thoughtBenhadad died of the distemper he laboured under, andnot by Hazael's treachery, and when Selden hath shewnthat Benhadad was among the gods of Syria. De DiisSyris. Synt. I. D. 6. Besides, the reason that Josephnsgives for this adoration, that these two kings had beengreat benefactors to the inhabitants of Damascus, andhad built them temples, is too remote from the politicalsuspicions of Le Clerc. Nor ought such weak suspicionsto be deemed of any force against the authentic testimo­nies of antiquity.