OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 183 they came to a resolution of sending as ambassadors tohim Marcus Valerius Lasvinus, who had been twiceconsul, and had commanded in Greece; Marcus Cae-cilius Metellus, who had been pretor; Servius Sulpi-cius Galba, who had been edile; and two who hadbeen questors, Caius Tremellius Flaccus and MarcusValerius Falto. A convoy of five quiuqueremes wasordered for them, that they might appear with suit­able grandeur in those countries where they wished toprocure a respect for the Roman name. The ambassa­dors in their way to Asia, having landed and gone toDelphi to the oracle, inquired what hopes might beentertained of accomplishing the business on whichthey had been sent: they were answered, it is said,that ' they would obtain what they were in search ofby means of king Attalus; and that when they shouldhave carried the goddess to Rome, they were to takecare that the best man in the city was the exerciser ofthe laws of hospitality towards her.' On coming tothe king at Pergamus, he received them kindly, con­ducted them to Pessinus in Phrygia, delivered to themthe sacred stone, which the natives said was the mo­ther of the gods, and desired them to convey it toRome. Marcus Valerius Falto, being sent homewardbefore the rest, brought an account that they were re­turning with the goddess; and that the best man inRome must be sought out to pay her the due rites ofhospitality. Quintus Caecilius Metellus was, by theconsul in Bruttium, nominated dictator, for the pur­pose of holding the elections, and his army was dis­banded. Lucius Veturius Philo was made master ofthe horse. The elections were held by the dictator:the consuls elected were Marcus Cornelius Cethegusand Publius Sempronius Tuditanus, the latter absent,being employed in the province of Greece. The pre-tors were then elected: Tiberius Claudius Nero, Mar­cus Marcius Rolla, Lucius Scribonius Libo, and Mar­cus Pomponius Matho. As soon as the elections werefinished, the dictator resigned his office. The Romangames were repeated thrice, the plebeian seven times.