OCR Output AN. 285 1048.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. appearance of God's having descended intothis temple, and of his having pitched histabernacle therein. So these men were in­tent upon this thought. But Solomon roseup, (for he was sitting before) and used suchwords to God as he thought agreeable to thedivine nature to receive, and fit for him togive; for he said, "Thou hast an eternalhouse, O Lord! and such a one as thou hastcreated for thyself out of thine own works;we know it to be the heaven, the air, theearth, and the sea, which thou pervadest;nor art thou contained within their limits. Ihave indeed built this temple to thee and thyname; that from thence when we sacrifice,and perform sacred operations, we may sendour prayers up into the air, and may con­stantly believe that thou art present, and artnot remote from what is thine own. Forneither when thou seest and hearest allthings, nor now, when it pleases thee todwell here, dost thou leave off the care ofall men; but rather thou art very near tothem all; and especially thou art present tothose that address themselves to thee, whe­ther by night or by day." When he hadthus solemnly addressed himself to God, heturned his discourse to the multitude, andstrongly represented the power and provi­dence of God to them. How he had shewnall things that were to come to pass to Davidhis father; as many of those things hadalready come to pass; and the rest wouldcertainly come to pass hereafter. And howhe had given him his name, and told to Davidwhat he should be called before he wasborn; and foretold that when he should beking, after his father's death, he should buildhim a temple; which since they saw accom­plished according to his prediction, he re­quired them to bless God; and by believinghim, from what they had seen accomplished,never to despair of any thing that he had pro­mised for the future, in order to their happi­ness, or suspect that it would not come to pass.When the king had spoken thus, he lookedagain towards the temple, and lifting up hisright hand to the multitude, he said, "It isnot possible by what men can do to returnsufficient thanks to God for his benefits be­stowed upon them; for the Deity stands inneed of nothing; and is above any such re­quital. But so far as we have been superior, O Lord! to other animals by thee, it becomesus to bless thy majesty; and it is necessaryfor us to return thee thanks for what thouhast bestowed on our house, and on the He­brew people. For with what other instru­ments can we better appease thee, when thouart angry at us, or more properly preservethy favour, than with our voice? which as wehave it from the air, so do we know that bythat air it ascends upwards towards thee. Itherefore ought myself to return thee thanksthereby, in the first place concerning myfather, whom thou hast rained from obscurityunto so great glory; and in the next placeconcerning myself; since thou hast performedall that thou promisedst unto this very day.And I beseech thee for the time to cometo afford us whatsoever thou, O God! hastpower to bestow on such as thou didstesteem; and to augment our house for allages, as thou hast promised to David myfather to do, both in his life-time, and at hisdeath; that our kingdom should continue,and that his posterity should successivelyreceive it to ten thousand generations. Donot therefore fail to give us these blessings,and to bestow on my children that virtue inwhich thou delightest. And besides all this,I humbly beseech thee that thou wilt let someportion of thy Spirit come down and inhabitin this temple; that thou mayest appear tobe with us upon earth. As to thyself, theentire heavens, and the immensity of thethings that are therein, are but a small habi­tation for thee; much more is this poortemple. But I intreat thee to keep it, asthine own house, from being destroyed byour enemies for ever; and to take care of itas thine own possession. If this people befound to have sinned, and be thereuponafflicted by thee with any plague, because oftheir sin; as with'dearth, pestilence, or anyother affliction which thou usest to inflict onthose that transgress any of thy holy laws;and if they fly all of them to this temple, be­seeching thee to deliver them; then do thouhear their prayer, as being within this house,and have mercy upon them, and deliver themfrom their afflictions. Nay, moreover, thishelp is what I implore of thee, not for theHebrews only, when they are in distress; butwhen any shall come hither from any ends ofthe world, and shall return from their sins, 3F2