OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 169 22. 12L valley of the Isere, which had come at the request of thefugitive king of the Salyes, Tutomotulus, to help him toreconquer his land, but was defeated in the district of Aix.When the Allobroges nevertheless refused to surrender theking of the Salyes, Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus, the suc­cessor of Calvinus, penetrated into their own territory(632). Up to this period the leading Celtic tribe had beenspectators of the encroachments of their Italian neighbours;the Arvernian king Betuitus, son of the Luerius alreadymentioned, seemed not much inclined to enter on a danger­ous war for the sake of the loose relation of dependence inwhich the eastern cantons might stand to him. But whenthe Romans showed signs of attacking the Allobroges intheir own territory, he offered his mediation, the rejectionof which was followed by his taking the field with all hisforces to help the Allobroges; whereas the Haedui embracedthe side of the Romans. On receiving accounts of therising of the Arverni, the Romans sent the consul of 633,Quintus Fabius Maximus, to meet in concert with Aheno­barbus the impending attack. On the southern border ofthe canton of the Allobroges at the confluence of the Iserewith the Rhone, on the 8th of August 633, the battle was 121.fought which decided the mastery of southern Gaul. KingBetuitus, when he saw the innumerable hosts of his depend­ent clans march over to him on the bridge of boats con­structed over the Rhone and the Romans who had not a thirdof their numbers form in array against them, is said to haveexclaimed that there were not enough of the latter to satisfythe dogs of the Celtic army. Nevertheless Maximus, agrandson of the victor of Pydna, achieved a decisive victory;the bridge of boats broke down under the mass of the fugi­tives ; the greater part of the Arvernian army was destroyed.The Allobroges, to whom the king of the Arverni declaredhimself unable to render further assistance, and whom headvised to make their peace with Maximus, submitted tothe consul; whereupon the latter, thenceforth called Allo-brogicus, returned to Italy and left to Ahenobarbus the nolonger distant termination of the Arvernian war. Aheno-'barbus, personally exasperated at king Betuitus becausehe had induced the Allobroges to surrender to Maxinrasand not to him, possessed himself treacherously of theperson of the king and sent him to Rome, where the senate,although disapproving the breach of fidelity, not only kept