OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 288 "the maidens of the palace, where a distaff should be chap."again placed in the hand of the eunuch." "I will XXXVIIL** spin her such a thread, as she shall not easily un-"ravel!" is said to have been the reply which in­dignation and conscious virtue extorted from thehero. Instead of attending, a slave and a victim, atthe gate of the Byzantine palace, he retired to Naples,from whence (if any credit is due to the belief of thetimes) Narses invited the Lombards to chastise theingratitude of the prince and people. But the pas­sions of the people are furious and changeable, andthe Romans soon recollected the merits, or dreadedthe resentment, of their victorious general. By the me­diation of the pope, who undertook a special pilgrim­age to Naples, their repentance was accepted; andNarses, assuming a milder aspect and a more dutifullanguage, consented to fix his residence in the Capitol.His death*, though in the extreme period of old age,was unseasonable and premature, since his geniusalone could have repaired the last and fatal error ofhis life. The reality, or the suspicion of a conspiracy,disarmed and disunited the Italians. The soldiersresented the disgrace, and bewailed the loss, of theirgeneral. They were ignorant of their new exarch;and Longinus was himself ignorant of the state ofthe army and the province. In the preceding yearsItaly had been desolated by pestilence and famine,and a disaffected people ascribed the calamities ofnature to the guilt or folly of their rulers f. Whatever might be the grounds of his security, ConqucstofAlboin neither expected nor encountered a Roman oMtSyby the Lom­bards, * The death of Narses is mentioned by Paul, 1 . ii. c. II, Anastas. in Vit. A. D. 568Julian, in. p. 43, Agnellus, Liber Pontifical. Raven in Script. Rer. Italicarum, —570.tom. ii. part i. p. 114.124. Yet I cannot believe with Agnellus that Narses wasninety-five years of age: is it probable that all his exploits were performed atfourscore? + The designs of Narses and of the Lombards for the invasion of Italy areexposed in the last chapter of the first book, and the seven first chapters of thesecond book of Paul the deacon.