OCR Output I'M [book ▼. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tious to obtain the glory of wisdom, togetherwith the gains, desired him to propose hisriddle': he said, " A great devourer producedsweet food out of itself; though itself werevery disagreeable." And when they werenot able in three days' time, to find out themeaning of the riddle, they desired the damselto discover it by the means of her husband,and tell it them; and they threatened to burnher, if she did not tell it them. So when thedamsel intreated Sampson to tell it her, he atfirst refused; but when she lay hard at him,and fell into tears, and made his refusal to tellit a sign of his unkindness to her, he informedher of his slaughter of a lion, and how hefound bees in his breast, and carried awaythree honey-combs, and brought them to her.Thus he, suspecting nothing of deceit, in­formed her of all; and she revealed it to thosethat desired to know it. Then on the seventhday, whereon they were to expound the riddleproposed to them, they met together beforethe sun setting, and said, "Nothing is moredisagreeable than a lion, to those that lighton it; and nothing is sweeter than honey to Thy spousal ornament neglected lies:Arise, prepare the bridal train, arise. Odyas. vi. 29. Pope. Dacier is of opinion, that the custom now alluded to pre­vailed amongst the Israelites, and that the proposition madeby Sampson is grounded upon it. From this sentimentMr. Pope dissents: "I am rather of opinion," he says,"that what is said of Sampson has relation to another cus­tom amongst the ancients, of proposing an aenigma at fes­tivals, and adjudging a reward to him that solved it. Thesethe Greeks called ygupxs ffufjwroTixos." B. * There is reason to think that there was nothing newor uncommon in this operation, as it was most obvious forthe end proposed that the wit of man could devise. Weaccordingly find that Ovid alludes to the practice, andmentions that foxes and fire-brands were every year ex­hibited at Rome, and killed in the Circus. For it was thecustom in many places to sacrifice by way of retaliationevery animal, whether goat or swine, which did particularinjury to the fruics of the earth. In consequence of thisthey introduced these foxes, which had been employedfor that purpose with fire-brands. Cur igitur missae vinctis ardentia teedisTerga ferant vulpes causa docenda mihi. He then mentions an instance of much injury done by afox so accoutred by fire. Qua fugit incendit vestitos messibus agros,Daninosis vires ignibus aura da bat. On this account the whole race, according to the poet,were condemned, at the festival called Cerealia, to be intheir turns set on fire. those that make use of it." To which Samp­son made this reply, "Nothing is more de­ceitful than a woman; for such was the per­son that discovered my interpretation to you."Accordingly he gave them the presents hehad promised them; making such Askelonitesas met him upon the road his prey; who werethemselves Philistines also. But he divorcedhis wife, and the girl despised his anger, andwas married to his companion, who made theformer match between them. At this injurious treatment Sampson was soprovoked, that he resolved to punish all thePhilistines, as well as her. So it being thensummer time, and the fruits of the land beingalmost ripe enough for reaping, he caughtthree hundred foxes, and joining lightedtorches to their tails, he sent them into thefields of the Philistines; by which means thefruits of the land perished.* Now when thePhilistines knew that this was Sampson'sdoing, and knew also for what cause he didit, they sent their rulers to Timnath, and burnthis former wife, and her relations; who hadbeen the occasion of their misfortunes. Ut ne luat paenas gens haec, Cerealibus ardet,Qjioque modo segetes perdidit ipsa perit. Fast. lib. iv. 681, 707. It is alluded to proverbially more than once by Lyco-phron, and seems to have been well known in Greece.He makes Cassandra represent Ulysses as a man both ofcunning and mischief, and styles him very properlyyafjwroupis, a fox with a fire-brand at his tail; for whereverhe went, mischief followed, v. 344. Suidas also takesnotice of this custom, when he speaks of a kind of beetlewhich the Boeotians named Tipha. They imagined thatif to this they were to fasten some inflammable matter, itwould be easy to set any thing on fire. He adds, that thiswas sometimes practised with foxes. Bryant's Observa­tions, p. 164. The Caliph Vathek being under the necessity, when onhis travels, of lighting torches, and making extraordinaryfires to protect himself and his attendants from the fury ofthe wild beasts that were ready to make an attack on them,set fire to a forest of cedar that bordered on their way.Accidents of this kind in Persia are not unfrequent. Hist,of Caliph Vathek, p. 250. "It was an ancient customwith the kings and great men to set fire to large bunchesof dry combustibles, fastened round wild beasts and birds;which being then let loose, the air and earth appeared onegreat illumination; and as those terrified creatures natu­rally fled to the woods for shelter, it is easy to conceivethat conflagrations would often happen, which must havebeen peculiarly destructive." Richardson's Dissert, p.185. This circumstance reminds us of the destructionoccasioned among the standing corn, the vineyards, andolives of the Philistines. In Psalm Ixxxiii. 14. there is areference to one of these fires, though arising from anothercause. See also Homer, II. ii. 455. B.