OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 39 rose higher every day. The taking of Tarentum, thougheffected by artifice rather than by courage, yet gavesome degree of glory to Fabius. The lustre of Fulvius'character began to fade. Marcellus was even spokenof with displeasure, because, besides the failure in hisfirst battle, he had in the middle of summer, whileHannibal was carrying his excursions through variousparts of Italy, drawn off his army to Venusia, to lodgethem in houses. He had a bitter enemy in Caius Pub-lius Bibulus, a plebeian tribune: this man, ever sincethe battle which proved unfortunate, had, in frequentharangues, represented Claudius in a dishonorablelight, endeavoring to render him odious to the com­mons; and he now proposed to deprive him of thecommand. The friends of Claudius nevertheless pro­cured an order that Marcellus, leaving at Venusia alieutenant-general, should come home to Rome, toclear himself of those charges, on which his enemiesfouuded the resolutions which they proposed; andthat, during his absence, no step should be taken to­wards divesting him of the command. It so happenedthat Marcellus came to Rome to rescue his characterfrom disgrace, and the consul Quintus Fulvius to holdthe elections at the same time. 21. The business respecting Marcellus' commissionwas debated in the Flaminian circus, amidst a vastconcourse of plebeians, and people of all ranks. Thetribune of the commons brought forward heavy charges,not only against Marcellus, but against the whole bodyof the nobles. * To their treacherous and dilatory con­duct,' he said, ' it was owing, that Hannibal now heldpossession of Italy, as his province, for the tenth year,and passed more of his life there than in Carthage.The Roman people now enjoyed the fruits of continuingMarcellus in command: his army, after being twicerouted, was spending the summer at Venusia, anddwelling in houses instead of the camp.' These andsuch like invectives of the tribune, Marcellus so tho­roughly refuted, by a recital of the services which hehad performed, that not only the question concerning