OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 203 dilating ambition, as the remodelling which the force of cir­cumstances dictated in institutions which had become un­tenable. It is probable that the introduction of the systemof inland enlistment byMarius saved the state in a militarypoint of view from destruction, just as several centuriesafterwards Arbogast and Stilicho prolonged its existence fora time by the introduction of foreign enlistment. Never­theless, it involved a complete—although not yet developed—political revolution. The republican constitution was essen­tially based on the view that the citizen was also soldier, andthat the soldier was above all a citizen; it was at an end, sosoon as a soldier-class was formed. To this issue the newsystem of drill, with its routine borrowed from the profes­sional gladiator, necessarily led; the military service becamegradually a profession. Far more rapid was the effect of theadmission—though but limited—of the proletariate to par­ticipate in military service; especially in connection withthe primitive maxims, which conceded to the general anarbitrary right of rewarding his soldiers compatible onlywith very solid republican institutions, and gave to the ableand successful soldier a sort of title to demand from thegeneral a share of the moveable spoil and from the state aportion of the soil that had been won. While the burgess orfarmer called out under the levy saw in military servicenothing but a burden to be undertaken for the public good,and in the gains of war nothing but a slight compensationfor the far.more considerable loss brought upon him by serv­ing, it was otherwise with the enlisted proletarian. Not onlywas he for the moment solely dependent upon his pay, but,as there was no Hotel des Invalides nor even a poorhouse toreceive him after his discharge, he necessarily desired forthe future also to abide by his standard, and not to leave itotherwise than with the establishment of his civic status.His only home was the camp, his only science war, his onlyhope the general—what this implied, is clear. When Mariusafter the engagement on the Eaudine plain unconstitution­ally gave Roman citizenship on the very field of battle to twocohorts of Italian allies in a body for their brave conduct,he justified himself afterwards by saying that amidst thenoise of battle he had not been able to distinguish the voiceof the laws. If once in more important questions the in­terest of the army and that of the general should concur toproduce unconstitutional demands, who could be security that f