OCR Output 34 ILIUM. ILLIBKRIS. It is also certain that in the time of AlexanderNew Ilium did exist, and was inhabited by Aeoliana.(Demosth. e. Aristocr. p. 671: Arrinn, Annb. i. 11.§ 7; Strab. xiii. p. 593, foil.) This new town,which is distinguished by Strata from the famousancient city, was not more than 12 stadia, or lessthan two English miles, distant from the sea, and wasbuilt upon the spur of a projecting edge of Ida,separating the bavins of the Scaniandor and Simois.It was at first a place of not much importance (Strab.xiii. pp. 593, 601), but increased in the course oftime, and was successively extended and embellishedby Alexander, Lysimachus, and Juhus Caesar.During the Mithridntic War New Ilium was takenby Fimbria, in B. c. 85, on which occasion it sufferedgreatly. (Strab. xiii. p. 594; Appi.in, Mit/triL 53;I.ir. Epit. Ixxxiii.) It is said to have been oncedestroyed before that time, by one Charidemus(Pint. Sertor. I.; Polyaen. iii. 14) : but we neitherknow when this happened, nor who this Charidemuswas. Sulla, however, favoured the town extremely,in consequence of which it rose, under the Romundominion, to considerable prosperity, and enjoyedexemption from all taxes. (Plin. v. 33.) These werethe advantages which the place owed to the traditionthat it occupied the identical site of the ancient andholy city of Troy: for, it may here be observed, thatno ancient author of Greece or Rome ever doubtedthe identity of the site of Old and New Ilium untilthe time of Demetrius of Scepsis, and Strata, whoadopted his views; and that even afterwards, thepopular belief among the people of Ilium itself, aswell as throughout the world generally, remained asfirmly established as if the criticism of Demetriusand Strata had never been heard of. These criticswere led to look for Old Ilium farther inland, becausethey considered the space between New Ilium and thecoast far too small to have been the scene of all thegreat exploits described in the Iliad ; and, althoughthey are obliged to own that not a vestige of OldIKum was to be seen anywhere, yet they assumedthat it must have been situated about 42 stadia fromthe sea-coast. They accordingly fixed upon a spotwhich at the time bore the name of "IAifW kwmv-This view, with its assumption of Old and New Iliumas two distinct places, does not in any way removethe difficulties which it is intended to remove ; forthe spaec will still be found far too narrow, not tomention that it demands of the poet what can bedemanded only of a geographer or an historian. Onthese grounds we, in common with the general beliefof all antiquity, which has also fonnd able advocatesamong modern critics, assume that Old and NewIlium nrcupird the same site. The statements inthe Iliad which appear irreconcilable with this viewwill disappear if we bear in mind that we have to dowith an entirely legendary story, which is little con­cerned about geographical accuracy. The site of New Ilium (according to our view,identical with that of Old Ilium) is acknowledged byall modern inquirers and travellers to be the spotcovered with ruins now called Kutnrlit, between thevillages of Ktan-kwi KaUifatU, and Tehiblak,a little to the west of the last-mentioned place, andnot far from the point when* the Simois once j<>inedthe Sramaitder. Those who maintain tliat Old Iliumwas situated in a different li>cality cannot, of course,be expected to agree in their opinions as to its actualsite, it being impossible to fix upon any one spotagreeing in every particular with tin poet's descrip­tion. lle»i«cting the nationality of tlie inhabitant* of Ilium, we shall have to speak in the article TnoA*.(Comp. Spohn, de AgroTrojnmo, Lipsiae, 1814, 8vo.;Rennell, Obmrtnliont on the Typography of thePlain of Troy, London, 1814.4to.; Choiseul-GonfBer,Voyage I'ittoretque de la Greet, Paris, 1820, vol ii.p. 177, 6.11.; Leake, ^1/ia Jtfinor, p. 275. folL; Grote]Iut. of Greece, vol. i. p. 436, foil.; Eckenbrecher,iiber die Lage de* /lomeriechen Won, Rhein. Mm.Neue Fol^c, vol. ii. pp. 1—49, whore a very good planof the district of Ilion is given. Sec also, Welcker,Kleine Schriften, vol. ii. p. I, full.; C. Maclaren.DtMertation on the Topography of the Trojan War,Kdinburgh. 1822; Mauduit, Decoueertei diau laTroiode, rfc., Paris & Lundres, 1840.) [L. S.] COIN OF ILIUM. ILI.I'RF.RIS CIAAjftpff, Ptol. ii. 4. § 11), orILLIBER1 LIBERINI (Plin. iii. I. s. 3), one ofthe chief cities of the Turduli, in Hispania Barlica,between the Baetis and the coast, is identified byinscriptions with Granada. It is probably tlieKlibyrge ('EXitifrpi) of Stephanus Byzautinus.(Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 277, No. 3; Klorez, Etp. &.vol. v. p. 4, vol. xiL p. 81 ; Mentelle, Geoor. Comp.Kip. Mod. p. 163 ; Coins ap. Florei, Med vol. iii.p. 75; Mionnet, vol. i. p. 15, SuppL vol. i. p. 28;Eckhel, vol. i. p. 22.) [P. S.] coin op ii.ijiif.ius (in spain). ILLIBERIS or ILI.IBF.RRIS ri)uteplt\ a townin the country of the Sordones, or Sardone*, or Surdi.in Gallia Aquitarria. The first place that Hannibalcame to after passing through the Eastern Pyreneeswas Illiberis. (Liv. xxi. 24.) He must have passedby Jiellegarde, Illiberis was near a small river Illi-bcris, which is south of another small stream, th»Ruscino, which had also on it a town named Rum-inn.(Strab. p. 182.) Mela (ii. 5) and Pliny (Hi. 4)6{«ak of Illiberis as having once been a great place,but in their time bring decayed. The road in tlieAntonine Itin. from Arclate {Ariel) through 'bePyrenees to Juncaria passes from Ruscino ( Vattet.Kirurillon) to Ad Centurionea, and omits Illiberis;but the Table (.laces Illiberis between Ruscino andAd Centrnarium, which is the same place as lbsAd Onturioncs of the Itin. [Ckntvrioneh, Aix]lllibtri* is h'.lne, on tbe river 7VcA. Illiberis or Illiberris is an Iberian nam*. Thenis another place, Cliniberris, on tlie Gallic aide isftbe Pyrenees, which has tin same termination.[Aim i.| It is said that btrri, in tbe Batqna,meani "a town." The site of Illiberis is fixed alEke by the I tins.; and we find an explanation of