OCR Output 4U THE DECLINE AND FALL Persians, wno had obtained service and settlement in the Byzantine empire. TheGreeks were repulsed and vanquished, but it was by the arrows of the Turkishcavalry; and had not their bow-strings been damped and relaxed by the evening?rain, very few of the Christians could have escaped with the emperor from thefield of battle. They breathed at Dorylieum, at the distance of three days; andTheophilus, reviewing his trembling squadrons, forgave the common flight bothof the prince and people. After this discovery of his weakness, he vainly hopedto deprecate the fame of Amorium: the inexorable caliph rejected with contempthis prayers and promises; and detained the Roman ambassadors to be the witnessesx>f his great revenge. They had nearly been the witnesses of his shame. The vi­gorous assaults of fifty-five days were encountered by a faithful governor, a veterangarrison, and a desperate people; and the Saracens must have raised the siege ifa domestic traitor had not pointed to the weakest part of the wall, a place which■was decorated with the statues of a lion and a bull. The vow of Motassemwas accomplished with unrelenting rigour: tired, rather than satiated, with de­struction, he returned to his new palace of Samara, in the neighbourhood of Bag­dad, while the unfortunate^!) Theophilus implored the tardy and doubtful aid ofhis western rival, the emperor of the Franks. Yet in the seige of Amorium above■seventy thousand Moslems had perished: their loss had been revenged by the, slaughter of thirty thousand Christians, and the sufferings of an equal number ofcaptives, who were treated as the most atrocious criminals. Mutual necessity couldsometimes extort the exchange or ransom of prisoners;(2) but in the national andreligious conflict of the two empires, peace was without confidence, and war, with­out mercy. Quarter was seldom given in the field; those who escaped the edgeof the sword, were condemned to hopeless servitude, or exquisite torture;' and acatholic emperor relates, with visible satisfaction, the execution of the Saracens ofCrete, who were flayed alive, or were plunged into caldrons of boiling oil. (3) Toa point of honour Motassem had sacrificed a flourishing city, two hundred thousandlives, and the property of millions. The same caliph descended from his horse,and dirtied his robe to relieve the distress of a decrepit old man, who, with hisladen ass, had tumbled into a ditch. On which of these actions did he reflect withthe most pleasure, when he was summoned by the angel of death?(4) With Motassem, the eighth of the Abbassides, the glory of his family and na­tion expired. When the Arabian conquerors had spread themselves over the east,and were mingled with the servile crowds of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, they in­sensibly lost the freeborn and martial virtues of the desert. The courage of thesouth is the artificial fruit of discipline and prejudice; the active power of enthu-•siasm had decayed, and the mercenary forces of the caliph were recruited in thoseclimates of the north, of which valour is the hardy and spontaneous production.Of the Turks,(S) who dwelt beyond the Oxus and Jaxartes, the robust youths,either taken in war, or purchased in trade, were educated in the exercises of thefield, and the profession of the Mahometan faith. The Turkish guards stood inarms round the throne of their benefactor, and their chiefs usurped the dominionof the palace and the provinces. Motassem, the first author of this dangerous ex­ample, introduced into the capital above fifty thousand Tui'ks; their licentious con­duct provoked the public indignation, and the quarrels of the soldiers and peopleinduced the caliph to retire from Bagdad, and establish his own residence and thecamp of his barbarian favourites at Samara on the Tigris, about twelve leagues (1) In theeast lie km styled Autozh (Continuator Theophan. lib. iii. p. 84.0 but such was the ignorant*of the west, that Ms ambassadors, in public discourse, might boldly narrate, de vicloriis, quas ad versus ezteraf"bcllando gentes crelitus fuerat assecutus (Annalist. Bertinian. apud Fagi, torn. iii. p. 720.) (2) Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 167,168.) relates one of these singular transactions on the bridge of the riser£amnsin Cilicia,the limit of the two empires, and one day's journey westward of Tarsus (D'Anville, Geogva-phie Ancienne, torn. ii. p. 91.) Four thousand four hundred and sixty Moslems, eight hundred women aaAchildren, one hundred confederates, were exchanged for an equal number of Greeks. They passed each otherin the middle of the bridge, and when they reached their respective friends, they shouted Allar Aciar.mi&Corie Eleisen. Many of the prisoners of Amorium were probably among them, but in the same year (A. H-231.) the most illnstrious of them, the forty-two martyrs, were beheaded by the caliph's order. .(3) Constantin. Porphyrogenitus, in Vit. Basil, c. 61. p. 186. These Saracens were indeed treated with pecu­liar severity as pirates and renegadoes. (4) For Theophilus, Motassem. and the Amorian war, see the Continuator of Theophanes (lib. iii.p. T7—MjG«iesins (lib. ni. p. 24—34.,) Cedrenus (528—532.,) Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 180.,) Aimlpharagius (Dynast, n.165,166.0 Abulfeda (Annal. Moslem, p. 191.,) d'Herbelot (Bibliot. Orientate, p. 639,610.) (5) M- de Guignes, who sometimes leaps, and sometimes stumbles, in the gulf between Chinese and Maho­metan ntirr, thinks he can see that these Turks are the Hocifkt alias the J&Mc4e,or high wag&m; that theyv,?.t "{""SPintD nn**£ hordesvfrqm China and Sibrj&to the domitfltms of the califlhs anfl gamaifidea, &c.<Iijst,deaHWiWni. IrT. pj ^3jfc 123—J-Tj?) •