OCR Output I73 THE DECLINE AND FALL and teaches us, that in a large society, the election of a monarchcan never devolve to the wisest, or to the most numerous part ofthe people. The army is the only order of men sufficiently unitedto concur in the same sentiments, and powerful enough to imposethem on the rest of their fellow-citizens: but the temper of soldiers,habituated at once to violence and to slavery, renders them veryunfit guardians of a legal, or even a civil constitution. Justice,humanity, or political wisdo.m> are qualities they are too littleacquainted with in themselves, to appreciate them in others. Va­lour will acquire their esteem, and liberality will purchase theirsuffrage; but the first of these merits, is often lodged in the mostsavage breasts; the latter can only exert itself at the expence of thepublic; and both may be turned against the possessor of the throne,•• «. 3 . by the ambition of a daring rival.Want of h in ; The superior prerogative of birth, when it has obtained the sanc- fhe Roman _ .... ... empire pro- tion of time and popular opinion, is the plainest, and least invidious, greatest cala- of all distinctions among mankind. The acknowledged rightinUlc" extinguishes the hopes of faction, and the conscious security dis­arms the cruelty of the monarch. To the firm establishment of thisidea, we owe the peaceful succession, and mild administration, ofEuropean monarchies. To the defect of it, we must attribute thefrequent civil wars, through which an Asiatic Despot is obliged tocut his way to the throne of his fathers. Yet, even in the East,the sphere of contention is usually limited to the princes of thereigning house, and as soon as the fortunate candidate has removedhis brethren, by the sword and the bow-string, he no longer enter­tains any jealousy of his meaner subjects. But the Roman empire,after the authority of the senate had sunk into contempt, was avast scene of confusion. The royal, and even noble, families ofthe provinces, had long since been led in triumph before the car of'the haughty republicans. The ancient families of Rome hadsuccessively fallen beneath the tyranny of the Caesars; and whilst! those