OCR Output B. VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 259 And now Demosthenes, and Menander, and Euthy-demus, (for these went on-board to command the fleet,)getting clear from their moorings, stood away directlytowards the barricade of the harbour, and that intervalof its mouth not yet completely barred, in order toclear the passage. The Syracusans also and their allieshad now launched forth against them with their usualnumber of ships. A detachment of these were so sta­tioned as to guard the passage; the rest were spread cir­cularly quite round the harbour, that on all sides at oncethey might attack the Athenians, and their land-army onthe beach might second them on approaches to the shore.The Syraculan fleet was commanded by Sicanus and A-gatharcus, who were respectively stationed in each of thewings, whilst Py then and the Corinthians composed thecenter. When the Athenians were come up to the barricade,they run boldly at it; and by the violence of the firstshock they beat off the vessels ranged about it, andwere intent on clearing away the whole barricade. Buthere, the Syracusans and allies falling in amongst themfrom every quarter, a general engagement ensued, notonly at the barricade, but in every part of the harbour.Obstinate it really proved, and such a battle as theyhad never fought before. Great, in truth, was the ar­dour of the seamen on both sides, in running upon theenemy, whenever the word was given; and great wasthe art exerted by the officers, in attack, and defence,and reciprocal contention. The soldiers on-board ex­erted all their efforts, that, when ship came to closewith ship, no stretch of military skill mould be omittedon the hatches. Every individual, abiding firmly inhrs post, strained all his diligence to signalize his ownbehaviour. But, as numerous ships were falling in to­gether amongst one another in little sea-room, and solarge a number never fought before in so small a space,(since she amount of both fleets fell little short of twohundred,) the direct incursions with the beak were few, S 2 because