OCR Output 52 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Corinth—a treatment disapproved even by the apologists ofthe destruction of Numantia and Carthage, and far fromjustified, even according to Roman international law, by theabusive language uttered against the Roman deputies in thestreets of Corinth. And yet it by no means proceeded fromthe brutality of any single individual, least of all of Mum-mius, but was a measure deliberated and resolved on by theRoman senate. We shall not err, if we recognize it asthe work of the mercantile party, which even thus earlybegan to interfere in politics by the side of the aristocracyproper, and which in destroying Corinth got rid of a com­mercial rival. If the great merchants of Rome had any­thing to say in the regulation of Greece, we can understandwhy Corinth was singled out for punishment, and why theRomans not only destroyed the city as it stood, but alsoprohibited any future settlement on a site so pre-eminentlyfavourable for commerce. The Peloponnesian Argos thence­forth became the rendezvous for the Roman merchants, whowere very numerous in Greece. For the Roman wholesaletraffic, however, Delos was of greater importance. A Roman1S8. free port as early as 5S6, it had attracted a great part ofthe business of Rhodes (ii. 308), and now in a similar wayentered on the heritage of Corinth. This island remainedfor a considerable time the chief emporium for merchandisegoing from the East to the West.*Asia. In the third and more distant continent the Roman dominion exhibited a development more imperfect than inthe African and Macedono-Hellenic countries, which wereseparated from Italy only by narrow seas.Kingdom of In Asia Minor, after the Seleucidae were driven back, thePergamus. kingdom of Pergamus had become the first power. Not ledastray by the traditions of the Alexandrine monarchies, butsagacious and dispassionate enough to renounce what wasimpossible, the Attalids kept quiet; and endeavoured not toextend their bounds nor to withdraw from the Roman hege­mony, but to promote the prosperity of their empire, so faras the Romans allowed, and to foster the arts of peace. * A remarkable proof of this is found in the names employed to designatethe fine bronze and copper wares of Greece, which m the time of Cicero werecalled indiscriminately '' Corinthian " or " Delian "copper. Their designationin Italy was naturally derived not from the places of manufacture but fromthose of export (Plin. H. N. xxxiv. 2, 9); although, of course, we do notmean to deny that similar vases were manufactured in Corinth and Delos S themselves.