OCR Output 452 ROMAN EMPIRE. kings of Castile and Arragon, we must applaud the mo­deration and discipline of the Arabian conquerors. The exploits of Musa were performed in theofMusa, evening of life, though he affected to disguise1 'his age by colouring with a red powder thewhiteness of his beard. But in the love of action andglory, his breast was still fired with the ardour of youth;and the possession of Spain was considered only as thefirst step to the monarchy of Europe. With a powerfularmament by sea and land, he was preparing to re-pass the Pyrennees, to extinguish in Gaul and Italy thedeclining kingdoms of the Franks and Lombards, and topreach the unity of God on the altar of the Vatican.From thence subduing the barbarians of Germany, heproposed to follow the course of the Danube from itssource to the Euxine sea, to overthrow the Greek orRoman empire of Constantinople, and, returning fromEurope to Asia, to unite his new acquisitions with An-tioch and the provinces of Syria.d But his vast enter­prise, perhaps of easy execution, must have seemedextravagant to vulgar minds; and the visionary con­queror was soon reminded of his dependance and servi­tude. The friends of Tarik had effectually stated hisservices and wrongs: at the court of Damascus, theproceedings of Musa were blamed, his intentions weresuspected, and his delay in complying with the first in­vitation was chastised by a harsher and more peremptorysummons. An intrepid messenger of the caliph enteredhis camp at Lugo in Gallicia, and in the presence of theSaracens and Christians arrested the bridle of his horse.His own loyalty, or that of his troops, inculcated theduty of obedience; and his disgrace was alleviated bythe recall of his rival, and the permission of investing * This design, which is attested by several Arabian historians, (Cardonnt,torn. 1. p. 95, 96.) may be compared with that of Mithridates, to march from theCrimea to Rome; or with that of Ciesar, to conquer the east, and to return homeby the north: and all three ate perhaps surpassed by the resl and successful en­terprise of Hannibal.