OCR Output OENIADAE. 46; OENOANDA. tiki uto took; but after holding it for a year,tary nre itUcxed by the Acarnanians and com-fU to ahead™ the town. (Paus. iv. 25.) Geni­al* a repreuoted at that time as an enemy of.tins. »lith is said to hare been one of the rca-mu that induced the Mcssenians to attack theTwenty-three years before the Peloponnesian*Ws.c. 434) Pericles laid siege to the town, butn mtfe to take it. (Tbuc. L 111 j Diod. xi. 85.)li i» PdopGBDesian War, Oeniadae still continued■Xiwd to the Athenians, and was the only Aear-uui ton, with the exception of Astacus, whichu>d with the Lacedaemonians. In the third year■'■itwar (429) Phormion made an expedition intoAa-Tana to secure the Athenian ascendancy : huttwti be took Astacus, he did not continue tora-rjj anion Oeniadae, because it was the winter,a rcjeh Mason the marshes secured the town fromal attack. Ib the following year (428) his sonkpv uflei up the Achelous, and ravaged theterm; of Oeniadae; but it was not till 424 thatfentteia, assisted by all the other Acarnanians,the town to join the Athenian alliance.Iii. 7, iv. 77.) It continued to be ar>: <f great importance during the Macedonianax Jem wars. In the time of Alexander thethe Aetolians, who had extended their do-«the W. bank of the Achelous, succeededat ixaiaf possession of Oeniadae, and expelled itskait'octi ia so cruel a manner that they werefcr£*.ial with the vengeance of Alexander. (Diod.Hki) Oeniadae remained in the hands of theJfiaa till 219, when it was taken by Philip,■X' ' Macedonia, This monarch, aware of theJf*** of the place, strongly fortified the citadel,M mmniieed uniting the harbour and the arsenal*** '■«• citadel by means of walls. (Polyb. iv. 65.)I Ueaitdae, together with the adjacent NesusKi w Xasus, was taken by the Romans, under"sties Lsrrinas, and given to the Aetolians, whovia their allies; but in 189 it was restored tokarsaniuii by virtue of one of the conditions of}*» Bade between the Romans and Aetolians in(Pot ix. 39; Liv. xxtL 24; Polyb.. Liv. xxxviii. 11.) From this perioddisappears from history; but it continued"-lis tie time of Stnbo (x. p. 459). exact sile of Oeniadae was long a matter of■ IXdwelJ and Gall supposed the ruins onstem side of the Achelous to representhat tbe*e ruins are those of Pleuron.•] The true position of Oeniadae has£xed with certainty by Leake, and hishis been confirmed by Mure, who has sincethe spot Its ruins are found at the modern■■*»». on the W. hank of the Achelous, andby morasses on every side. To the•vaipj deepen into a reedy marsh or lake,c leaata or Katokhi, and by the ancientsis tats lake is a small island, probably the• « the Saws mentioned above. Thucydidespate correct in his statement (ii. 102) that» around the city were caused by thehe appears to take no notice of the■ Heat, which afforded a much greater pro-~ *• '•«• city than the Acheloas, and which haswith this river. The city occupied an fn owdated hill, from the southern extremity'^we stretches out a long slope in the di-connecting the hill with theTt« eatire circuit of the fortifications still exists, and cannot be much less than three miles.The walls, which are chiefly of polygonal construc­tion, are in an excellent state of preservation,often to a height of from 10 to 12 feet. Towardsthe hi. of the city was the port, communicating withthe sea by a deep river or creek running up throughthe contiguous marsh to Petah on the coast Leake discovered the ruins of a theatre, whichstood near the middle of the city ; hut the most in­teresting remains in the place are its arched pos­terns or sallyports, and a larger arched gatewayleading from the port to the city. These archedgateways appear to be of great antiquity, and provethat the arch was known in Greece at a much earlierperiod than is usually supposed. Drawings of severalof these gateways are given by Mure. (Leake,Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 556, seq.; Mure,Journal of a Tour in Greece, vol. i. p. 106, seq.;see also, respecting the arches at Oeniadae, Leake,Peloponnesiaca, p. 121.) Strabo (x. p. 450) speaks of a town called OldOcnia (ij waAaia Oim«*), which was deserted inhis time, and which he describes as midway be­tween Stratus and the sea. New Oenia (j) vivOiWa), which he places 70 stadia above the mouthof the Achelous, is the celebrated town of Oeniadae,spoken of above. The history of Old Oenia is un­known. Leake conjectures that it may possiblyhave been Erysiche {'Epvalxyi^, which Stephanussupposes to be the same as Oeniadae; hut this is amistake, as Strabo quotes the authority of the poetApollodorus to prove that the Erysichaei were apeople in the interior of Acamania. Leake placesOld Oenia at Palea Mani, where he found someHellenic remains. (Steph. B. t.v. OiVeidSai; Strab.x. p. 460; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 524,seq.) 2. A city of Thessaly, in the district Octaca(Strab. ix. p. 434; Steph. B. a.».) COIN OF OENIADAE. OENIUS (Ofrios), also called Oenoe (OiwoV;,Arrian, Peripl. Pont. Eux. p. 16), a small river ofPontus, emptying itself into the Euxine, 30 stadiaeast of the mouth of the Thoaria. (Anonym. Perip I.Pont tux. p. 11.) [L. S.] OENOANDA (OiVoaVJo), a town in the extremewest of l'isidia. belonging to the territory of Cibyra,with which and Balbura and Bubon it formed atetrapolis, a political confederacy in which each townhad one vote, while Cibyra had two. (Strab. xiii.p. 631 ; Steph. B. t. v.; Liv. xxxviii. 37 ; Plin. v.28; comp. Cibyra.) The town hi mentioned as lateas the time of Hierocles, who, however (p. 685),calls it by the corrupt name of Enoanda. [L. S.] * The MSS. of Strabo have Airalo, which Leakewas the first to point out must be changed intoOiWa. Kramer, the latest editor of Strabo, hasinserted Leake's correction in the text. II H 2