OCR Output 32* Boot I. WARS «T THE JEWS. Temenus, and by her mother's side from D'arius, the son ofHystaspes. She also frequently reproached Herod's sister andwives, with the ignobility of their descent; and that they wererevery one chosen by him for their beauty, but not for their fa­mily. Now those wives of his were not a few; it being of oldpermitted to the Jews to * marry many wives t, and this kingdelighting in many, all which hated Alexander, on account ofGlaphyra's boasting and reproaches. 3. Nay, Aristobulus had raised a quarrel between himselfand Salome, who was his-mother-in-law, besides the anger hehad conceived at Glaphyra's. reproaches -T for he perpetually up­braided bis wife with the meanness of her family, and com­plained, that as he had married a woman of a low family, so-had his brother Alexander married one of royal blood. At this-Salome's daughter wept, and told it her with this addition, that.Alexander threatened the mothers of his other brethren, thatwhen he should come to the crown,he would make them weavewith their maideps,and would make those brothers of his coun­try schoolmasters, and brake this jest upon them, that theyhad been very carefully instructed to fit them for such an em­ployment. Hereupon Salome could not contain her anger, buttold all to Herod; nor could her testimony be suspected, sinceit was against her own son-in-law. There was also another ca­lumny that ran abroad, and inflamed the king's mind; for heheard that these sons of his were perpetually speaking of theirmother, and, among their lamentations for her, did not abstainfrom cursing him; and tha t when he made presents of any ofMammae's garments to his later wives, these threatened, thatin a little time, instead of royal garments, they would clothethem in no better than hair-cloth. 4. Now upon these accounts, though Herod was somewhatafraid of the young men's high spirit, yet did he not despair ofreducing them to a better mind; but before he went to Rome,,whether he was now going by sea, he called them to him, andpartly threatened them a little, as a king? but for the main, headmonished them as a father, and exorted them to love theirbreihren, and told them that he would pardon their former of­fences, • That it was an immemorial custom among the Jews, and their forefathers, thepatriarchs, to have sometimes more wires, or wives and concubines, than one atthe same time, and that this polygamy was not directly forbidden in the law ofMoses, is e»ident; but that ptlygamy was ever properly and distinctly permitted inthat law of Moses, in the places here cite'd by Dean Aldrich, Deut xvii. 16, 17.or xxi. 15. or indeed any where else, does not appesr to me. And what our Sa­viour says about the common Jewish divorces, which may lay much greater claimto such a permission than ptlygaay, seems to me true in this case also: that Moses,for the hardness of their hearts, suffered them to have several wives at the sametime, but that " from the beginning it was not so," Matt. xix, 8. Mark x. 5. /