OCR Output 76 THE DECLINE AND FALL of Nero, the grandson of Germanicus, and the lineal successor ofAugustus. It was not without reluctance and remorse, that theprætorian guards had been persuaded to abandon the cause of thetyrant 5\ The rapid downfal of Galba, Otho, and Vitellius, taughtthe armies to consider the emperors as the creatures of their will,and the instruments of their licence. The birth of Vespafian wasmean; his grandfather had been a private soldier, his father apetty officer of the revenue 35; his own merit had raised him, in anadvanced age, to the empire; but his merit was rather useful thanshining, and his virtues were disgraced by a strict and even sordidparsimony. Such a prince consulted his true interest by the asso­ciation of a son, whose more splendid and amiable character mightturn the public attention* from the obscure origin, to the futureglories of the Flavian house. Under the mild administration ofTitus, the Roman world enjoyed a transient felicity, and his be­loved memory served to protect, above fifteen years, the vices ofhis brother Domitian.Ai D. 964 Nerva had scarcely accepted the purple from the assassins of Do-^artctwof mitian, before he discovered that his feeble age was unable to stemTrajan. tjie torrent of public disorders, which had multiplied under the long. tyranny of his predecessor. His mild disposition was respected bythe good; but the degenerate Romans required a more vigorouscharacter, whose justice fliould strike terror into the guilty. Thoughhe had several relations, he fixed his choice on a stranger. Headopted Trajan, then about forty years of age, and who com­manded a powerful army in the lower Germany; and immediately,by a decree of the senate, declared him his colleague and successorA. D„ 98: jn the empire It is sincerely to be lamented, that whilst we arefatigued with the disgustful relation of Nero's crimes and follies,we are reduced to collect the actions of Trajan from the glimmer­ings of an abridgment, or the doubtful light of a panegyric.There remains, however, one panegyric far removed beyond the 7 suspicion: