OCR Output CHAP. LI. 425 of the Greeks and Arabs, the Copts alone were found, onthe assessment, six millions of tributary subjects/ ortwenty millions of either sex, and of every age: thatthree hundred millions of gold or silver were annuallypaid to the treasury of the caliph.' Our reason must bestartled by these extravagant assertions; and they willbecome more palpable, if we assume the compass andmeasure the extent of habitable ground; a valley fromthe tropic to Memphis, seldom broader than twelve miles,and the triangle of the Delta, a flat surface of two thou­sand one hundred square leagues, compose a twelfth part ofthe magnitude of France.' A more accurate research willjustify a more reasonable estimate. The three hundredmillions, created by the error of a scribe, are reduced tothe decent revenue of four millions three hundred thou­sand pieces of gold, ofwhich nine hundred thousand wereconsumed by the pay of the soldiers." Two authenticlists, of the present and of the twelfth century, are cir­cumscribed within the respectable number of two thou­ etmmm opinion; and adds, that the generality of these villages contain two orthree thousand persons, and that many of them are more populous than our largecities- 'Eutych. Annal. torn. 2. p. 308. 311. The twenty millions are computed fromthe following data: one-twelfth of mankind above sixty, one-third below sixteen,the proportion of men to women as seventeen to sixteen. (Recherches sur la Po­pulation de la France, p. 71, 72.) The president Goguet (Origin des Arts, &c.torn. 3. p. 26, &c.) bestows twenty-seven millions on ancient Egypt, because theseventeen hundred companions of Sesostris were bom on the same day. • Elmacin, Hist . Saracen, p. 218. and this gross lump is swallowed withoutscrupli- by d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 1031.) Arbuthnot, (Tables of AncientCoins, p. 262.) and de Guignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 3. p. 135.) They mightallege the not less extravagant liberality of Appian in favour of the Ptolemies (inprfef.) of seventy-four myriads, seven hundred and forty thousand talents, an an­nual income of a hundred and eighty-five, or near three hundred, millions of poundssterling, according as we reckon by the Egyptian or the Alexandrian talent. (Ber­nard de Ponderibus Antiq. p. 186.) 1 See the measurement of d'Anville. (Mern. sur 1'Egypte, p. 23, &c.) After somepeevish cavils, M. Pauw (Recherches sur les Egyptians, torn. 1. p. 118—121.) canonly enlarge his reckoning to two thousand two hundred and fifty square leagues. "Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alexand. p. 334. who calls the common reading orversion of Elmacin, error librarii. His own emendation of four million three hun­dred thousand pieces, in the ninth century, maintains a probable medium betweenthe three millions which the Arabs acquired by the conquest of Egypt, (idem,p. 168.) and the two million four hundred thousand which the sultan of Constan­tinople levied in the last century. (Pietro della Valle, torn. 1. p. 352. Thevenot,part 1. p. 824.) Pauw (Recherches, torn. 2. p. 365—373.) gradually raises therevenue of the Pharaohs, the Ptolemies, and the Ctesars, from six to fifteen mil­lions of German crowns.