OCR Output decline and fall [chap, xliii. liberate cruelty; but in the conspiracies which attackedhis authority and person, a more candid judge will ap­prove ^he justice or admire the clemency of Justinian.He excelled in the private virtues of chastity and tempe­rance: but the impartial love of beauty would have beenless mischievous, than his conjugal tenderness for Theo­dora, and his abstemious diet was regulated, not by theprudence of a philosopher, but the superstition of a monk.His repasts were short and frugal: on solemn fasts, hecontented himself with water and vegetables; and suchwas his strength as well as fervour, that he frequentlypassed two days and as many nights without tasting anyfood. The measure of his sleep was not less rigorous:after the repose of a single hour, the body was awakenedby the soul, and, to the astonishment of his chamberlains,Justinian walked or studied till the morning light. Suchrestless application prolonged his time for the acquisitionof knowledge,0 and the dispatch of business: and he, might seriously deserve the reproach of confounding, b)'.minute and preposterous diligence, the general order ofhis administration. The emperor professed himself amusician and architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyerand theologian: and if he failed in the enterprise of re­conciling the Christian sects, the review of the Romanjurisprudence is a noble monument of his spirit and in­dustry.- In the government of the empire, he was lesswise or less successful: the age was unfortunate; the peo­ple was oppressed and discontented; Theodora abusedher power; a succession of bad ministers disgraced hisjudgment; and Justinian was neither beloved in his life,nor regretted at his death. The love of fame was deep­ly implanted in his breast, but he condescended to thepoor ambition of titles, honours, and contemporarypraise; and while he laboured to fix the admiration, he c The studies and soience of Justinian are attested by the confession, (Anecdot. c.8. 13.) still more than by the praises (Go.hie. lib. 3. c. 31. de'Edific. lib. 1. Proem,c. 7,} of Procopius. Consult the copious index uf Ali-mannus, and read the life ofJustinian by Ladewig. (p. 135—14'^.)