OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 385 his bands by some of the principal inhabitants, afterthey had first sounded the minds of the populace. Theybad a custom, that, on the first day of assembly, theirpretors, for the omen's sake, should pronounce thenames Jupiter, Apollo, and Hercules; in addition towhich, a rule had been made, that, along with these,they should join the name of king Philip. After theconclusion of the alliance with the Romans the heraldomitted so to honor him; on which a murmur spreadthrough the multitude, and they soon became clamor­ous, calling out for the name of Philip, and insistingthat the respect, due by law, should be paid as be­fore; which at length being complied with, universalapprobation ensued. On the encouragement affordedby this favorable disposition, Philocles was invited,who seized in the night a strong post called Larissa,seated on a hill which overhangs the city, and in whichhe placed a garrison. At the dawn of day, however,and as he was proceeding in order of battle to theforum, at the foot of the hill he was met by a line oftroops, drawn up to oppose him. This was a body ofAchaeans, lately posted there, consisting of about fivehundred young men, selected out of all the states.Their commander was iEnesidemus, of Dymae. Theking's general sent a person to recommend to them toevacuate the city, because they were not a match forthe townsmen alone, who favored the cause of Philip;much less when these were joined by the Macedonians,whom even the Romans had not withstood at Corinth.This at first had no effect, either on the commander, orhis men: and when they, soon after, perceived the Ar-gives also in arms, coming, in a great body, from theopposite side, and threatening them with destruction,they yet seemed determined to run every hazard, iftheir leader would persevere. But jEnesidemus, un­willing that the flower of the Achasan youth should belost, together with the city, made terms with Phi­locles, that they should have liberty to retire, whilehimself remained armed with a few of his dependents,and without even stirring from his station, To a per-liv. vol. v. 2 b