OCR Output 498 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mascus again. And Aristobulus, with a greatarmy made war with Aretas and Hyrcanus:and fought them at a place called Papyron,and beat them in the battle, and slew aboutsix thousand of the enemy; with whom fellPhalion also, the brother of Antipater. CHAP. III. ARISTOBULUS AND HYRCANUS COME TO POMPEY, IN ORDERTO ARGUE WHO OUGHT TO HAVE THE KINGDOM J ANDUPON THE FLIGHT OF ARISTOBULUS TO THE FORTRESSALEXANDRIUM, POMPEY LEADS HIS ARMY AGAINST HIM JAND ORDERS HIM TO DELIVER UP THE FORTRESSESWHICH HE POSSESSED. A LITTLE afterward Pompey came toDamascus, and marched over Coele-syria. At which time there came ambassa­dors to him from all Syria, and Egypt, andout of Judea also. For Aristobulus had senthim a great present; which was a *goldenvine, of the value of five hundred talents.Now Strabo of Cappadocia mentions thispresent in these words: "There came alsoan ambassage out of Egypt, and a crown ofthe value of four thousand pieces of gold.And out of Judea there came another, whe­ther you call it a vine or a garden. Theycalled the thing Teg*uX»i, the delight. How­ever, we ourselves saw that present, deposit­ed at Rome, in the temple of Jupiter Capito-linus; with this inscription: "The giftf ofAlexander, king of the Jews." It was valuedat five hundred talents. And the report is, thatAristobulus, the governor of the Jews, sent it.In a little time afterward came ambassa­dors again to him; Antipater from Hyrcanus,and Nicodemus from Aristobulus: which lastalso accused such as had taken bribes; firstGabinius, and then Scaurus: the one threehundred talents, and the other four hundred.By which procedure he made these two hisenemies, besides those he had before. Andwhen Pompey had ordered those that had controversies one with another to come tohim in the beginning of the spring, hebrought his army out of their winter quar­ters, and marched into their country of Da­mascus. And as he went along he demolishedthe citadel that was at Apamia; which An-tiochus Cyzicenus had built: and took cog­nizance of the country of Ptolemy Menneus;a wicked man, and not less so than Dionysiusof Tripoli, who had been beheaded, whowas also his relation by marriage. Yet didhe buy off the punishment of his crimes fora thousand talents: with which money Pom­pey paid his soldiers their wages. He alsoconquered the place called Lysias; of whichSilas, a Jew, was tyrant. And when he hadpassed over the cities of Heliepolis andChalcis; and got over the mountain which ison the limit of Coelesyria, he came fromPella to Damascus. And there he heard thecauses of the Jew3, and of their governorsHyrcanus and Aristobulus, who were at dif­ference one with another: as also of the na­tion against them both; which did not desireto be under regal government. Because theform of government they received from theirforefathers was that of subjection to thepriests of that God whom they worshipped:and they complained that though these twowere the posterity of priests, yet did theyseek to change the government of their na­tion to another form; in order to enslavethem. Hyrcanus complained, that althoughhe was the elder brother, he was deprivedof the prerogative of his birth by Aristobu­lus, and held but a small part of the countryunder him: Aristobulus having taken awaythe rest by force. He also accused him, thatthe incursions which had been made intotheir neighbours' countries, and the piraciesthat had been at sea, were owing to him:and that the nation would not have revolted,unless Aristobulus had been a man given to * This golden vine or garden, seen by Strabo at Rome,has its inscription here, as if it were the gift of Alexander,the father of Aristobulus; and not of Aristobulus himself,to whom yet Josephus ascribes it; and in order to provethe truth of that part of his history, introduces this testi­mony of Strabo's. So that the ordinary copies seem to behere either erroneous or defective; and the original read­ing; seerns to have been either Aristobulus, instead ofAlexander, with one Greek copy; or else Aristobulus, theson of Alexander, with the Latin copies; which last seemsto me the most probable. For as to archbishop Usher's conjectures, that Alexander made it, and dedicated it toGod in the temple; and that thence Aristobulus took it,and sent it to Pompey; they are both very improbable,and no way agreeable to Josephus; who would hardlyhave avoided the recording both those uncommon pointsof history, had he known any thing of them. Nor wouldcither the Jewish nation, or even Pompey himself, thenhave approved such a flagrant instance of sacrilege. SeeDr. Hudson's note here.t Or, of Aristobulus, the son of Alexander.