OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 181 together with one mind and one spirit.' Observed that' they were men qualified by nature for military com­mand : great in action, but unpractised in the strife ofwords, their talents were such as eminently becameconsuls. As to the artful and the ingenious lawyersand orators, such as Appius Claudius, they ought tobe kept at home to preside in the city and the forum ;and to be appointed pretors for the administration ofjustice/ In these proceedings that day was spent, and,on the following, the elections both of consuls and pre-tor were held, and were guided by the recommendationssuggested by the consul. Quintus Fabius and PubliusDecius were chosen consuls ; Appius Claudius pretor;all of them absent; and, by a decree of the senate, fol­lowed by an order of the commons, Lucius Volumniuswas continued in the command for another year. 23. During that year many prodigies happened. Toavert the evils which they might portend, the senatedecreed a supplication for two days : the wine andfrankincense for the sacrifices were furnished at theexpense of the public; and numerous crowds of menand women attended the performance. This supplica­tion was rendered remarkable by a quarrel which brokeout among the matrons in the chapel of patrician chas­tity, which stands in the cattle market, near the roundtemple of Hercules. Virginia, daughter of Aulus, apatrician, but married to Volumnius the consul, a ple­beian, was on that account excluded by the matronsfrom sharing in the sacred rites: a short altercationensued, which was afterwards, through the intempe­rance of passion incident to the sex, kindled into aflame of contention. Virginia boasted with truth thatshe had a right to enter the temple of patrician chastity,as being of patrician birth, and chaste in her character,and, besides, the wife of one, to whom she was be­trothed a virgin, and had no reason to be ashamedeither of her husband, or of his exploits or honors: toher high-spirited words she added importance by anextraordinary act. In the long street, where she re­sided, she inclosed with a partition a part of the house,