OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRfe." $6$ of schism and heresy, were either commanded or permitted to pleadtheir cause -before the tribunal of the conqueror. This public aridvery singular trial affords a convincing proof, that the existence*the property, the privileges, and the internal policy of the Christianswere acknowledged, if not by the laws, at least by the magistratesof the empire. As a pagan and as a soldier, it could scarcely beexpected that Aurelian should enter into the discussion, whether thesentiments of Paul or those of his adversaries were most agreeable tothe true standard of the orthodox faith. His determination, however) The sentence _ is executed by was founded on the general principles of equity and reason. He Aurelian.considered the bishops of Italy as the most impartial and respectable A*D'*74-judges among the Christians, and as soon as he was informed, thatthey had unanimously approved the sentence of the council, he ac­quiesced in their opinion, and immediately gave orders that Paulshould be compelled to relinquish the temporal possessions belongingto an office, of which, in the judgment of his brethren, he hadbeen justly deprived. But while we applaud the justice, we shouldnot overlook the policy, of Aurelian; who was desirous of restoringand cementing the dependance of provinces on the capital, by everymeans which could bind the interest or prejudices of any part of hissubjects "9. Amidst the frequent revolutions of the empire, the Christians still Peace and . -in- prosperity of flourished in peace and prosperity; and notwithstanding a cele- the churchbrated aera of martyrs has been deduced from the accession of Dio-cletian '!°, the new system of policy, introduced and maintained by z84~~the wisdom of that prince, continued, during more than eighteenyears, to breathe the mildest and most liberal spirit of religious tole­ration. The mind of Diocletian himself was less adapted indeed tospeculative inquiries, than to the active labours of war and govern­ment. His prudence rendered him averse to any great innovation,and though his temper was not very susceptible of zeal or enthu­siasm, he always maintained an habitual regard for the ancient 4 C 2 , deities