OCR Output CHAP. LI. 399 the natives and strangers might feel some sparks of theenthusiasm which so fiercely glowed in the bosoms ofthe Saracens. The siege of Jerusalem lasted fourmonths; not a day was lost without some action ofsally or assault; the military engines incessantly playedfrom the ramparts; and the inclemency of the winterwas still more painful and destructive to the Arabs. TheChristians yielded at length to the perseverance of thebesiegers. The patriarch Sophronius appeared on thewalls, and by the voice of an interpreter demanded aconference. After a vain attempt to dissuade the lieu­tenant of the caliph from his impious enterprise, he pro­posed, in the name of the people, a fair capitulation,with this extraordinary clause, that the articles of secu­rity should be ratified by the authority and presence ofOmar himself. The question was debated in the councilof Medina; the sanctity of the place, and the advice ofAli, persuaded the caliph to gratify the wishes of his sol­diers and enemies, and the simplicity of his journey ismore illustrious than the royal pageants of vanity andoppression. The conqueror of Persia and Syria wasmounted on a red camel, which carried, besides his per­son, a bag of corn, a bag of dates, a wooden dish, anda leather bottle of water. Wherever he halted, the com­pany, without distinction, was invited to partake of hishomely fare, and repast was consecrated by the prayerand exhortation of the commander of the faithful.1 Butin this expedition of pilgriniage, his power was exer­cised in the administration of justice; he reformed thelicentious polygamy of the Arabs, relieved the tributa­ries from extortion and cruelty, and chastised the luxuryof the Saracens, by despoiling them of their rich silks,and dragging them on their faces in the dirt. Whenhe came within sight of Jerusalem, the caliph cried with 1 The singular journey and equipage of Omar are described (besides Ockley,»ol. 1. p. 250.) by Murtadi. (Merveillos de 1'Egypte, p. 200—202.)