OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 323 (consul in 652), once in better days the associate of the 102.most glorious victory and triumph of that same Marius, whonow had no other answer for the suppliant relatives of hisaged colleague than the monosyllabic order, " he must die." The originator of all these outrages was Gaius Marius. The lastHe designated the victims and the executioners—only in daya ofexceptional cases, as in those of Merula and Catulus, llarlU8-was any form of law observed; not unfrequently a glanceor the silence with which he received those who salutedhim formed the sentence of death, which was always executedat once. His revenge was not satisfied even with the deathof his victim; he forbade the burial of the dead bodies; hegave orders—anticipated, it is true, in this respect by Sulla—that the heads of the senators slain should be fixed to therostra in the Forum; he ordered particular corpses to hedragged through the Forum, and that of Gaius Caesar to bestabbed afresh at the tomb of Q.uintus Varius, whom Caesarprobably had once impeached (P. 247); he publicly em­braced the man who delivered to him as he sat at table thehead of Antonius, whom he had been with difficulty restrainedfrom seeking out in his hiding-place and slaying with hisown hand. His legions of slaves, and in particular a divi­sion of Ardyaeans (P. 176), chiefly served as his executioners,and did not neglect, amidst these Saturnalia of their newfreedom, to plunder the houses of their former masters andto dishonour and murder all whom they met with there.His own associates were in despair at this insane fury;Sertorius adjured the consul to put a stop to it at any price,and even Cinna was alarmed. But in times, such as thesewere, madness itself becomes a power; man hurls himselfinto the abyss, to save himself from giddiness. It was noteasy to restrain the furious old man and his bands, and leastof all had Cinna the courage to do so; on the contrary, hechose Marius as his colleague in the consulship for the nextyear. The reign of terror alarmed the more moderate of thevictors not much less than the defeated party; the capitalistsalone were not displeased to see that another hand lent itselfto the work of thoroughly humbling for once the haughtyoligarchs, and that at the same time, in consequence of theextensive confiscations and auctions, the best part of thespoil came to themselves—in these times of terror they ac­quired from the people the surname of the "hoarders." Fate had thus granted to the author of this reign of