OCR Output tAMISSA. IAPODES. » Orychoma was the same as the fort Achaia, whichis said to have been the first settlement of the He-liadae io the bland (Diod. Sic. T. 57; Allien, viii.p. 360); at an; rate, Acliaia was situated in theterritory of lalvsus, which bore the name Ialysia.(Comp.' Horn. //. ii. 656; Pind. 01. vii. 106; Herod.ii- 182; Thucyd. viii. 44 ; Ptol. v. 2. § 34; Steph.B. «. r.; Scykx, Ptripl. p. 81; Dionys. Perieg. 504;Or. Met vii. 365; Pomp. Mela, ii. 7.) The site ofancient lalvsus is still occupied by a village bearingthe name latino, about which a few ancient remainsare found. (Boss, Rcisen auf den Griech. fnseln,roL iii. p. 98.) [L. S.J IAM1SSA. [Thamesis]IAMNA, IAMNO. [Baleahks, p. 374, b.]IAMNIA ('IaeV4s, LXX; 'lipyta, 'I«iuvffaIturaiy, a city of the Philistines, assigned tothe tribe of Judah in the LXX. of Joshua xv. 45(ripre); but omitted in the Hebrew, which onlymentions it in 2 Citron, xxvi. 6 (Jabneh in theEnglish version), as one of the cities of the Philis­tines taken and destroyed by king Uzziah. It iscelebrated by Philo Judaeus as the place where thefirst occasion was given to the Jewish revolt underCaligula, and to his impious attempt to profane thetemple at Jerusalem. His account is as follows: —In the city of Iamnia, one of the most populous ofJudaea, a small Gentile population had establisheditself among the more numerous Jews, to whom theyoccasioned no little annoyance by the wanton vio­lation of their cherished customs. An unprincipledgovernment officer, named Capito, who had beensent to Palestine to collect the tribute, anxious topro-occupy the emperor with accusations against theJews before their well-grounded complaints of hisboundless extortion could reach the capital, orderedan altar of mud to be raised in the town for the dei­fication of the emperor. The Jews, as be had antici­pated, indignant at the profanation of the Holy Land,assembled in a body, and demolished the altar. Onbearing this, the emperor, incensed already at whatbad lately occurred in Egypt, resolved to resent thisinsult by the erection of an equestrian statue ofhimself in the Holy of Holies. (Philo, de Legal, adCairnn, Op. vol. ii. p. 573.) With respect to its site,it is assigned by Josephus to that part of the tribebf Juilah occupied by the children of Dan (Ant. v. 1.§ 22); and he reckons it as an inland city. (Ant.xhr. 4. § 4, B. J. L 7. § 7.) Thus, likewise, inthe 1st book of Maccabees (x. 69, 71), it is spokenof as situated in the plain country ; but the authorof the 2nd book speaks of the harbour and fleetof the Iamnites, which were fired by Judas Mac-eabaeus; when the light of the conflagration wasseen at Jerusalem, 240 stadia distant. The appa­rent discrepancy may, however, be reconciled by thenotices of the classical geographers, who make fre­quent mention of this town. Thus Pliny expresslysays, " Iamnes duae: altera intus," and places thembetween Azotus and Joppa (v. 12); and Ptolemy,having mentioned 'laprrrrwv, "the port of the Iam­nites," as a maritime town between Joppa andAzotus, afterwards enumerates Iamnia among thecities of Judaea. From all which it is evident thatIamnia had its Majuma, or naval arsenal, as Gaza,Azotus, and Ascalon also had. (Le Quien, OrientCirut. voL iii. col. 587, and 622.) The Itineraryof Antoninus places it 36 M. P. from Gaza, and11 M. P. from Diospolis (or Lydda); and Eusebius(Onotn. t. r. lifwtta) places it between Diospolisand Azotus. It* site is still marked by ruins which retain the ancient name Yebna, situated on a smalleminence on the west side of Wady Rubin, an hourdistant from the sea. (Irby and Mangles, Travels,p. 182.) "The ruins of a Human bridge," whichthey noticed, spanning the Nalir-el-Rubm betweenYebna and the sea, was doubtless built for the pur­pose of facilitating traffic between the town and itssea-port. [G. W.] IAMPHORINA, the capital of the Maedi, in Ma­cedonia, which was taken n. c. 211 by Philip, son ofDemetrius. (Liv. xxvi. 25.) It is prcbably repre­sented by Vranid or Icorina, in the upper valley ofthe Afordva. (Leake, Nortltern Greece, vol. iii. p.473.) [E. B. J.] IANGACAUCA'NI [Mauhetania.] JANUA'RIA ('layovapia &Koa),a promontory onthe coast of Ciiicia, near Serrepolis, between Mallusand Acgaea. (Stadiusm. §§ 149, 150.) It is nowcalled Karadaah. [L. S.] 1 AT IS ('Iawff), a small stream which formed theboundary between Megaris and the territory of Elcu-sis. [Attica, p. 323, a.] IA'PODES, IA'PYDES ('IdiroJfj, Strab. iii.p. 207, vii. p. 313; 'IdvuJ«j, Ptol. ii. 16. §8;Liv. xliii. 5; Virg. Georg. iii. 475; Tibull. iv. 1.108), an lllyrian people to the N. of Dalmatia, andE. of Libumia, who occupied Iapydia (Plin. iii. 19),or the present military frontier of Croatia, com­prised between the rivers Kulpa and Korana to theN. and !■]., and the Yekbich range to the S. In the interior, their territory was spread alongMoxs Albius ( Velika), which forms the extremityof the great Alpine chain, and rises to a great ele­vation; on the other side of the mountain theyreached towards the Danube, and the confines ofPannonia. They followed the custom of the wildThraciun tribes in tattooing themselves, and werearmed in the Keltic fashion, living in their poorcountry (like the Morlacchi of the present day)chiefly on zea and millet. (Strab. vii. p. 315.) In ii. c. 129, the consul C. Sempronius Tuditanuscarried on war against this people, at first unsuc­cessfully, but afterwards gained a victory over them,chiefly by the military skill of his legate, D. JuniusBrutus, for which he was allowed to celebrate atriumph at Koine (Appian, Ii. C. i. 19, lllyr. 10;Liv. Epit. lix.; fasti Capit.) They had a " focdus"with Koine (Cic. pro Bulb. 14), but were in B.C.34 finally subdued by Octavianus, alter an obstinatedefence, in which Metulum, their principal townwas taken (Strab. 1. c.; Appian, lllyr. I. «.). Mktulcm (Mf ToOAor), their capital, was situatedon the river Colapis (Kulpa) to the N., on thefrontier of Pannonia (Appian, /. c ), and has beenidentified with Mottling or Mctlika on the Kulpa.The Antonine Itinerary has the following places onthe road from Senia (Zeugg) to Siscia (Sissek) :—Avkndone (comp. I'eut. Tab.; Abendo, Geog.Rav.; Aiitvitdrai, Appian, Illyr. I. c.; Outvios,Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314.); Akitium (Arypium,reut. Tab.; Parupium, Geog. Rav.; 'Apoinriroi,App. Illyr. 16., perhaps the same as the 'ApovKniaof Ptolemy, ii. 16. § 9), now Ottochatz. At ISiuicm,which should be read Bivium (Wesseling, adloc.),the road divided, taking a direction towards Panno­nia, which the Itinerary follows, and also towardsDalmatia, which is given in the Peutinger Table. Neigebaur (Die Sudtlaven, pp. 224—235) hasidentified from a local antiquary the following sitesof the Table: Epidotium (UselU); Afcus (Chauke); Au- n 2