OCR Output A. D. 14.] 45 OF TACITUS. ditious: but war knows no distinction of cases; theinnocent and the guilty fall in one promiscuous car­nage. The officers, thus instructed, sounded the commonmen; and finding thegreatcst partwell affected,agreed,at an hour approved of by Csecina, to fall with suddenfury upon the leaders of the mutiny. Having con­certed their measures, at a signal given they beganthe attack. «They rushed sword in hand into the tents,and without mercy butchered their comrades, wholittle thought they were so near their end. A dread­ful slaughter followed; no cause assigned, and no ex­planation given. Except tho authors of the measure,no man knew from what motive the assault proceeded,or where it would end. XLIX. In the civil wars recorded in history, weno where find a scene of horror like the present. Nobattle was fought; there was no assault from an ad­verse camp :'in the same tents where the day sawthem eat their meal in peace, and the night laid themdown to rest, comrades divide against their fellows;darts and javelins are thrown with sudden fury; up­roar and confusion follow; shouts and dying groansresound throughout the camp: a scene of blood islaid; wretches expire, and the reason remains un­known. The event is left to chance. Men of worthand honour perished in the fray; for the guilty,finding themselves the devoted objects, snatched uptheir arms, and joined the better cause. Csecina re­mained a tame spectator; no officer, no tribune at­tempted to stop the wild commotion. The fury of thesoldiers had its free career; and vengeance rioted inblood, even to satiety. Germanicus in a short timeafter entered the camp. He saw a tragic spectacle;and, with tears in his eyes, called it a massacre, notan act of justice. He ordered the dead bodies to beburnt. The fury of the soldiers had not yet subsided :in the agitation of their minds they desired to be ledagainst the enemy, in order to expiate by tho bloodof the barbarians the desolation theyjiad made. Theshades of their slaughtered friends could not be other­wise appeased: when their breasts were gashed with