OCR Output NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. bait [72] See the two Panegyrics, and the laws t>f thisand the ensuing year, in the Theodofian code. [73] Panegyr. Vet. ix. 20. Lactantius dc M. P.c. 44. Maximin, who was confessedly the eldestCæsar, claimed, with some Ihew of reason, the firstrank among the Auguili. [74] Adhuc cuncta opera qua: magnifice construx-erat, urbis fanum, atque bafilicam, Flavii meritispatrei sacravere. Aurelius Victor. With regardto the theft of Trajan's trophies, consult FlaminiusVacca, apud Montfaucon, Diarium Italicum, p.2,9, and l'Antiquice Expliquce of the latter, torn,iv. p. 17 k. [75] Prætoriæ legiones ac subsidia factionibusaptiora quam urbi Komi, sublata penitus; simularma atque usus indumenti militaris. AureliusVictor. Zosimus (1. ii. p. 89.) mentions this fastas an historian; and it is very pompously cele­brated in the ninth Panegyric. [76] Ex omnibus provinciis optimates virosCuria; tun pigneraveris; ut Senatsis dignitas ... extotius Orbis store consisteret. Nazarius in Panegyr.Vet. x. 35. The word pigntrcrveris might almostseem malicioufly chosen. Concerning the senatorialtax, seeZosimus, 1. ii. p. 115, the second title of thesixth book of the Theodofian Code, with Gode-froy's Commentary, and Memoires de l'Academiedes Inscriptions, torn, xxviii. p. 726. [77] From the Theodofian Code, we may nowbegin to trace the motions of the emperors; but thedates both of time and place have frequently beenaltered by the carelessness of transcribers. [73] Zosimus (1. ii. p. 89) observes, that, beforethe war, the sister of Constantine had been be­trothed to Licinius. According to the youngerVictor, Diocletian was invited to the nuptials; buthaving ventured to plead his age and infirmities, hereceived a second letter filled with reproaches forhis supposed partiality to the cause of Maxentiusand Maximin. [-9] Zosimus mentions the defeat and death ofMaximin as ordinary events; but Lactantius expa­tiates on them, (de M. P. c. 4^—50.) ascribingthem to the miraculous interposition of Heaven.Licinius at that time was one of the protectors ofthe church, [80] Lactantius de M, P. c. 50. Aurelius Victortouches on the different conduct of Licinius, and ofConstantine, in the use of victory. [81] The sensual appetites of Maximin were gra­tified at the expence of his subjects. His eunuchs,who forced away wives and virgins, examined theifnaked charms with anxious curiosity, lest any partof their body should be found unworthy of the royalembraces. Coyness and disdain were considered astreason, and the obstinate fair one was condemnedto be drowned. A custom was gradually intro­duced, that no person Ihould marry a wife withoutthe permission of the emperor, *' ut ipse in omni­bus nuptiis prægustatoresset." Lactantius de M. P.c 38. [82] Lactantius de M. P. c. 39. [83] Diocletian at last sent cognatum suum,quendam militaremac potentem virum, to intercedein favour of his daughter (Lactantius de M. P. c.41). We are not sufficiently acquainted with thehistory of these times, to point out the person whowas employed. [84] Valeria quoque per varias provincias quin-decim menfibus plebeio cultu pervagata. Lactan­tius de M. P. c. 51. There is some doubt whetherwe should compute the fifteen months from the mo­ment of her exile, or from that of her escape. Theexpression of pervagata seems to denote the latter;but in that case we must suppose, that the'treatiseof Lactantius was written after the first civil warbetween Licinius and Constantine. See Cuper,p. 254. [8;J Ita illis pudicitia et conditio exitio suit.Lactantius de M. P. c. 51. He relates the misfor­tunes of the innocent wise and daughter of Diocle­tian with a very natural mixture of pity and ex­ultation. [86] Thecurious reader, who consultsthe Valesianfragment, p. 713, will perhaps accuse me of givinga bold and licentious paraphrase; but if he con­siders it with attention, he will acknowledge thatmy interpretation is probable and consistent. [87] The situation of Æmona, or as it is nowcalled, Laybach, in Carniola, (Danville GeographieAncienne, torn. i. p. 187.) may suggest a conjecture.As it lay to the north east of the Julian Alps, thatimportant territory became a natural object of dis-4 pute