OCR Output MAEBA. 245 MAGDALA kt 15°, the capital, no doabt, of the Maphoritae,whom he places above the Homeritae and Adramitaeof the soul hern coast [Maphoritae.] Thesituation of this tribe b still marked by the wideand very fruitful Wady Mayfah, in the midst ofwhich " the very extensive village named itayfah,situated at the eastern base of the Hummarees,"perhaps marks the site of the Maepha metropolis.Mr. Forster, however, identities it with the ruinedsite of Sakab-eUHajar, discovered and describedby Lieut. YYellstead in 1834, the situation of whichis thus stated by that officer:—" Nakab-el-Ilajar issituated north-west, and is distant forty-eight milesfront the village of 'A in [on the coast], which ismarked on the chart in latitude 14° 2' north, andkn^itude 46° 30' east, nearly." It stands in thecentre of the IVady Meifah, nearly 20 miles northof the village of that name, and was evidently a(J»ce of considerable importance in ancient times.The inscription over the gateway, in the ancientArabic character, commonly known as the Hadrau-matic, would doubtless throw light on the history ofthis castle; and it is curious that while the at­tempted decipherments of Professor Boediger andMr. Charles Forster have so little in common, bothwould agree in identifying it with Mnepha; forwhile the former discovers the name Mf'fa twice inthe first line of the inscription, the latter, who pro­nounces that this name " has no existence in the in­scription,'' compensates for this disappointment bydiscovering a list of proper names, which serve toconnect it with several historical personages, among•horn are an Arabian patriarch, Mohareb, son ofKwrish, "belonging to a period certainly prior tothe Christian era;" and Charibacl, " that king ofthe Homerites and Sabaeans celebrated by Arrian(Ptrriplus Maris Eryth. pp. 13, 14, apud HudsonGeographki Alinort)), whose alliance in the reignof Claudius was assiduously courted by the Ro­mans. The inscription further mentions many of thebuildings described by Lieut. Wellstead. (Forster,10I. ii. pp. 193—204, 383—393.) [G. W.] MAERA [Mantixkia.]MAESIA SILVA, a forest of Etruria, in the ter­ritory of the Veientines, which was conquered fromthan by Ancus Marrius. (Liv. i. 33.) Its sitecannot be determined with certainty, but it was pro­bably situated on the right bank of the Tiber,between Rome and the sea-coast, Pliny also no-tin it as abounding in dormice. (Plin. viii. 58. s.«3.) [E. H. B.] MAESOXIA (h Moio-aAfa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 15;in Ptripl. p. 35, Mao-aAia), a district on the easterncoast of Ilindostun, along the Bay of Bengal, corre-tpoding to that now occupied by the Circars andtoe upper part of the Coromandel coast. Ptolemymentions two towns in its territory which he callsEmporia, namely. Contacossyla (probably the pre­sent ifamlipattana) and Allosygna. The district«u traversed by a river of considerable size, theMaesotus (now Godarari), which flows into theAij of Bengal, after giving its name to the sur­rounding country. It was from one of the ports ofMusolia that merchants were in the habit of taking•hip and crossing the Bay of Bengal to the AureaCherwMitts. The people were called Maesoli (Mai-v«A«). (Vincent, Peripl. vol. ii. p. 521.) [V.]MAESOXUS (oM<uo-«Aor, Ptol. vii. I. §§ 15,37), t river of considerable size, which rises intre Deccan or midland part of Ilindostdn, andn»n in a course at 6r»t SE., and then nearly E., till it falls into the Bay of Bengal in lat. 18°. N.There has been some dispute among geographers asto its modern representative, some making it thesame as the Kistna, and some as the Goddrari.The latter is probably the most correct supposition.Ptolemy places its source in the Orudii or Aruedimountains, which would seem to bo part of thochain of tho western Ghats. [V.] MA'GABA (Kurgh Dagh), a considerable mountain in the central part of Galatia, W. of the riverHalys, and E. of the city of Ancyra, which was only10 Roman miles distant from it In B. c. 189, whenManliiu) was carrying on war ngainst the Galatians,the Tectosagi and Trocmi took refuge on Mt. Magaba,and there defended themselves against the Romans,but were defeated. (Liv. xxxviii. 19,26; Flor.i.ll.)According to Rufus Festus (11), this mountain wasafterwards called Modiacus. [L. S.] MAGABULA, a place mentioned in the Peuting.Table in Pontus Polemoniacus, on tho road fromComana to Nicopolis, at a distance of 21 miles fromthe former city. There can be no doubt but that itis the same place as Megalula (Mc^dAouAa) men­tioned by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 10); but its exact sitecannot be ascertained. [L. S.] MAGARSA, MAGARSUS, or MEGARSUS (Md-yapaa. Miyapaus, Miyapaos), a town in the easternpart of Cilicia, situated on a height close to thomouth of the river Pyramus. (Strab. xiv. p. 676.)Alexander, previous to the battle of Issus, marchedfrom Soli to Megarsus, and there offered sacrifices toAthena Megarsis, and to Amphilochus, tho son ofAmphiaraus, the reputed founder of the place.(Arrian, Annb. ii. 5.) It seems to have formed theport of Mallus (Steph. Byz. s. v. Mdyapoos; Lycoph.439; Plin. //. N. v. 22). The hill on which thetown stood now bears the name of Karadash, andvestiges of ancient buildings are still seen upon it.(Leake, Asia Minor, p. 215, foil.) [L. 6.] MAGDALA (MaySali: Eth. Mo/ySaAnKOs), atown of Galilee, chiefly noted as the birthplace ofthat Mary to whom the distinguished name of Mag­dalene is ever applied in the Gospel. The place itselfis mentioned only by S. Matthew (xv. 39), wherewe find the words to opia MaryoaAa, which are repre­sented in the parallel passage in S. Mark (viii. 10)as to. fifprj Aa\navov8a. As neither does this namooccur elsewhere, we have no clue to the situationof the town; although, a modem writer says, " itseems to follow from the New Testament itself thatit lay on the west side of the lake." The argumentis, that, on leaving the coast of Magdala, our Lordembarked again, and " departed to the other side"—"an expression which in the N. T. is applied al­most exclusively to the country east of the hike andof the Jordan." (Robinson, Bib. Res. vol. iii. p. 278.)There can, however, be no difficulty in identifying itwith the site of the modern village of Mejdel in thoSE. corner of the plain of Gennesaret; where therecertainly existed an ancient town of the name, no­ticed in the Jerusalem Talmud, compiled in Tibe­rias, from which it is not more than 4 or 5 milesdistant, on the north: probably identical also withMigdal-el, in the tribe of Naphtali. (Josh. xix. 38.)It is a small and insignificant village, " lookingmuch like a ruin, though exhibiting no marks ofantiquity." (Robinson,/, c.) Pococke's argumentagainst this identification is unintelligible:—" Thisdoes not seem to be Magdalum mentioned in Scrip­ture, because that is spoken of with Dalmanutha,which was to the east of the sea." (Observations s 3