OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [cBAP. XLI. lisarius, on the other side, diverted the attention of theGoths by a vigorous and successful skirmish. Theseseasonable aids, the use and reputation of which weredexterously managed by the Roman general, revived thecourage, or at least the hopes, of the soldiers and peo­ple. The historian Procopius was dispatched with animportant commission to collect the troops and provi­sions which Campania could furnish, or Constantinoplehad sent; and the secretary of Belisarius was soon fol­lowed by Antonina herself/ who boldly traversed theposts of the enemy, and returned with the oriental suc­cours to the relief of her husband and the besieged city.A fleet of three thousand Isaurians cast anchor in the bayof Naples, and afterward at Ostia. Above two thou­sand horse, of whom a part were Thracians, landed atTarentum ; and, after the junction of five hundred sol­diers of Campania, and a train of waggons laden withwine and flour, they directed their march on the Appianway, from Capua to the neighbourhood of Rome. Theforces that arrived by land and sea were united at themouth of the Tiber. Antonina convened a council ofwar: it was resolved to surmount, with sails and oars,,the adverse stream of the river: and the Goths wereapprehensive of disturbing, by any rash hostilities, thenegotiation to which Belisarius had craftily listened.They credulously believed, that they saw no more thanthe vanguard of a fleet and army, which already coveredthe Ionian sea and the plains of Campania; and the illu­sion was supported by the haughty language of the Ro­man general, when he gave audience to the ambassadorsof Vitiges. After a specious discourse to vindicate thejustice of his cause, they declared that, for the sake ofpeace, they were disposed to renounce the possession ofSicily. "The emperor is not less generous (replied bastian. (see Nolli's plan.) That memorable spot has been consecrated by the Ege-rian grove, the memory of Nnma, triumphal arches, the sepulchres of the Scipios,Metelli, &c. * The expression-of Procopius has an invidious cast—rvyyv e* rov ay^»>.eu{ tnvvqifi s-vfiSfrojifm xowitxtir. (Goth, lib. 2. c. 4.) Yet he is speakiog of a nonuiti.