OCR Output HOMA. 841 HOMA. rtbt W., whence it stretches in a southerly direc­ts to a pjint opposite the Aventine. The mas-liist form of the name (Janiculus), though em-krrd m a substantive by some modern writers,•ift= l'» n»t «n no classical authority, and can only- i'lrwtd u an adjective form with nvm* or colli*.Utiw, Ilmvlb. p. 653 ) The name Janiculum isaiUr derived from Janus, who ia said to have hadiwr or citadel here. (Ov. Fast. i. 245; Macrob. - 7.) As the ridge runs in a tolerably straight'teariT due 8. from the point where it Com­oro, die curve described by the Tiber towards > I. laves a considerable plain between the riveri tie hiil, which attains ita greatest breadth at theM opposite to the Forum Boarium. This wasi wirifflal Rkgio Trajistiberisa. It appearsUtr hen covered with buildings long before the•"t Aagutus, and was principally inhabited byUir classes, especially fisliermen, tanners, andi ke. though it contained some celebrated gar- 'Hence the Ludi Piteatorii were held in thisBier. (Or. Fast vi. 237; Fest. pp. 210, 238.)ru the ancient Ckctto, or Jews' quarter, whichi bo opposite to it. (I'hilo, de VirL ii. p. 568,mr.) !>• Kitio Transtiberina contained but few tem-i•rather public buildings. Of the temple ofu foKTiWA we have already spoken when dis-■ag tat question respecting that of Pudicitiavu [supra, p. 814]. Of other loci rtligiosiis iiurter little more is known than the name,ivutbt Ll*CT» Ft'RisAK, mentioned in the nar- • «f the death of C. Gracchus. (Aur. Vict.IU. ti; Pint. C. Gracch. 17.) Cicero con- "1 'his grove with the Knmenides, or Furiest Iker. iii. 18); but there is no account of< Attic deities having been naturalised at Home,"tbooM rather infer from Varro that the • waa consecrated to aome ancient indigenousre. (i. U ri. § 19, Mull.) It was a uni- tradition that Nunia waa buried in the Jani-n(IHonya. iL 76; Plut Num. 22; Val. Max.$ 12). Cicero, in a corrupt jKissiige, places his 'hand rrocul a Fotnt Aha" (or FontisI («V Lea. ii. 22); but of such a deity or altarnt oo further account. We also find a Leers'i«"ntt>i DivARt M mentioned by Paulus«u(p. 64, Mull.) as "trans Tiberim;" butra the names of tbrse goddesses are also found■ laarription (CJruter, lxxxviii. 14), what they '»'i»>t be told. Lastly, as the Basis Ca­ts records a Virt s Larch Huraulm in thisrt w* may conclude that they bad a saceUum **>( the profane places trans Tiberim were•icia Pkata and the field called Codeta.Froer—the land given to Mucius Saevola byratfeaa a reward of his valour (I.iv. ii. 13)w, hiieeiei, have Iain beyond the district nowt Baatdrration, and probably farther down the'. The Cadets, or .\ Codetanus, was soifnra a plant that grew there resembling a • tail (coda) (Paul Diac. pp. 38 and 58,\ — Bo doubt the Equisetis, or Equisetum*v of Linnaeus. (" Invisa et equisetis eat, a line aquinae setae," Plin. xviii. 67. s. 4.) > Mam to have been a Codeta Major and ar, i.r.fj Suetonius relates that Caesar exhibited•i. aasaat in the Utter, where he had formedI (* *■ minora Codeta defosso lacu," Cars. 39)Caaiia, oo the other band, represents this naumachia as taking place in the Campus Martins(xliii. 23). Becker (l/andb. p. 656, note) wouldreconcile these divergent accounts by assuming thatthe Codeta Minor lay in the Campus Martins, andthe Codeta Major oppisito to it, on the other side ofthe Tiber. (Cf. Prcller, Eeyionen, p. 218.) Butthere seem to be some grave objections to this as­sumption. It is not probable that two placesbearing the same name should have been on differentsides of the river, nor that there should have been amarshy district, as the Codeta evidently was, in theCampus Martius, in the time of Caesar. Besides,had the latter contained a place called Codeta Minor,— which must have been of considerable size toafford room for the exhibition of a naval combat,—we should surely have heard of it from some othersource. Becker adduces, in proof of his view,another passage from Suetonins (/&. c. 44), fromwhich it appears that Caesar contemplated buildinga magnificent temple of Mars, on the site of thelake, after causing it to be filled up ; a project, how­ever, which does not Beem to have been carried intoexecution. Becker assumes that this temple mustof course have been in the Campus Martius; thoughon what grounds does not appear, as we have al­ready seen that there was a temple of Mars a longway outside the Porta Capena, besides a subsequentone in the forum of Augustus. We are, therefore,of opinion, that the word 'Ap«(», in Dion Cassius,must be a mistake either of his own, or of hiscopyists, and that the Campus Codetanus of theNvtitia must have lain rather below the city, onthe right bank of the Tiber. (Cf. Canina, Indie.p. 566, seq.) The Notitia mentions a CampusBrcttiani;.s in connection with the Campus Code­tanus, but what it was cannot be said. Some haveconjectured that it was called after the Bruttii, whowere employed at Home as public servants. (Paul.Diac p. 31.) Near the same spot must have been the HortiCaksaris, which Caesar bequeathed to the Komanpeople. (Suet. Cars. 83; Tac. Ann. ii. 41; Cic.I'hil. ii. 42.) According to Horace, they must havelain at some distance:— "Trans Tiberim longe cubat is, prope Cnesarishortos." (Hat. i. 9. 18.) And it may be inferred from the situation of theI'Ksiri.E ok Foils Fortlna, which we havealready discussed [supra, p. 814], that they musthave been at about a utile's distance from the PortaPortuensis. (Fast. Amit. VIII. Kal. Jul.) It seemsprobable that they were connected with the NemusCaesarum, where Augustus exhibited a naumaehiafand where a grove or garden was afterwards laidout. (" Navalis proelii spectaculum populo deditrans Tiberim, in quo loco nunc nemus estCaesarum," Man. Ancyr.) This would rather tendto confirm the view that the codeta was in this neigh­bourhood. In Tacitus (Ann. xii. 56: " Ut quondamAugustus structo cis Tiberim stagno ") we are there­fore probably to read uls for cm, which ancient formseems to have been retained in designating theTranstiberine district (" Dicebatur cis Tiberim etuls Tiberim," Aul. Cell. xii. 13; cf. Varr. I..L. v.§ 83, Mull.; Pompon. Dig. i. tit. 2.1. 2. § 31.) TheNemus Caesarum seems to have been so called fromCaius and Lucius Caesar. (Dion Cass. lxvi. 25.)Wc arc not to suppose that it occupied the siteof the lake excavated for the naumachia, but wasplanted round it as wc learn from Tacitus (—" apud