OCR Output 250 [BOQIVfl. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. pleased at this advice, and called for Hushai,David's friend; (for so did he style him,) andinforming him ot the opinion of Ahithophel,he asked farther what was his opinion con­cerning that matter? now he was sensible,that if Ahithophel's counsel was followed,David would be in danger of being seizedand slain. So he attempted to introduce acontrary opinion, and said, "Thou art notacquainted, O king! with the valour of thyfather, and of those that are now with him:that he had made many wars, and hath alwayscome off victorious. Though probably henow abides in the camp, for he is very skilfulin stratagems, and in foreseeing the deceitfultricks of his enemies; yet will he leave Lisown soldiers in the evening; and will eitherhide himself in some valley, or will place anambush at some rock; so that when our armyjoins battle with him, his soldiers will retirefor a little while; but will come upon usagain as encouraged by the king's being nearthem; and in the mean time, your father will6hew himself suddenly in the time of thebattle, and will infuse courage into his ownpeople, when they are in danger; but bringconsternation to thine. Consider thereforemy advice, and reason upon it; and if tboucanst but acknowledge it to be the best,reject the opinion of Ahithophel. Send tothe entire country of the Hebrews, and orderthem to come to fight with thy father. Anddo thou thyself take the army, and be thineown general in this war, and do not trust itsmanagement to another. Then expect toconquer him with ease, when thou overtakesthim openly with his few partisans; but hastthyself many ten thousands; who will be de­sirous to demonstrate their diligence andalacrity. And if thy father shall shut himselfup in some city, and bear a siege, we willoverthrow that city by machines of war, andby undermining it." When Hushai had said this, he obtained his point against Ahitho­phel; for his opinion was preferred by Ab­salom before the others. However, it wasno other than *God who made the counsel ofHushai appear best to the mind of Absalom.So Hushai hastened to the high-priests,Zadok and Abiathar, and told them theopinion of Ahithophel, and his own, and thatthe resolution was taken to follow this latteradvice. He therefore bade them send toDavid, and tell him of it; and to inform himof the counsels that had been taken; and todesire him to pass quickly over Jordan, lesthis son should change his mind, and makehaste to pursue him, and to prevent him,and seize upon him, before he should be iusafety. Now the high-priests had their sonsconcealed in a proper place out of the city;that they might carry news to David of whatwas transacted. Accordingly they sent amaid servant, whom they could trust, to them,to carry the news of Absalom's counsels, andordered them to signify the same to David,with all speed. So they made no delay; buttaking along with them their father's injunc­tions, became pious and faithful ministers,and judging that quickness and alacrity wasthe best mark of faithful service, they madehaste to meet with David. But certainhorsemen saw them, when they were twofurlongs from the city, and informed Absalomof them, who immediately sent home to takethem. But when the sons of the high-priestperceived this, they turned out of the road,to a village called Bahurim. There theydesired a certain woman to hide them, andafford them security. Accordingly she letthe young men down by a rope into a well,and laid fleeces of wool over them, and whenthose that pursued them came to her, andasked her whether she saw them? she didnot deny that she had seen them; for thatthey stayed with her some time; but she * This reflection of Josephus's, that God brought tonought the dangerous counsel of Ahithophel, and directlyinfatuated wicked Absalom to reject it; (which infatuationis what the Scripture styles the judicial hardening thehearts and blinding the eyes of men, who, by their formervoluntary wickedness have justly deserved to be de­stroyed, and are thereby brought to destruction,) is a veryjust one. Nor does Josephus ever puzzle himself, orperplex his readers with subtle hypotheses as to themanner of such judicial infatuations hy God; while thejustice of them is generally so obvious. That peculiar manner of the divine operations, or permissions; or themeans God makes use of in such cases, is often impene­trable by -us. Secret things belong to the Lord our God;but those things that are revealed belong to us, and to ourchildren for ever, that we may do all the words of his law,Deut. xxix. 29. Nor have all the subtiltietn of the moderns,so far as I see, given any considerable light in this andmany other similar points of difficulty relating either todivine or human operations. See also the Notes on V. 1.and IX. 4.