OCR Output M2 lH£ DECLINE AND FALL chap. most as an alien in her father,s house. The zeal of TYYVIT 'friendship, and parental affection, suggested a liberalartifice: a qualified citizen was named in the testa­ment, with a prayer or injunction that he would re­store the inheritance to the person for whom it wastruly intended. Various was the conduct of thetrustees in this painful situation: they had swornto observe the laws of their country, but honourprompted them to violate their oath; and if theypreferred their interest under the mask of patriotism,they forfeited the esteem of every virtuous mind.The declaration of Augustus relieved their doubts,gave a legal sanction to confidential testaments andcodicils, and gently unravelled the forms and re­straints of the republican jurisprudence. But as thenew practice of trusts degenerated into some abuse,the trustee was enabled, by the Trebellian and Pega-sian decrees, to reserve one-fourth of the estate, orto transfer on the head of the real heir all the debtsand actions of the succession. The interpretationof testaments was strict and literal; but the languageof trusts and codicils was delivered from the minuteand technical accuracy of the civilians *. in. Op HI. The general duties of mankind are imposed by their public and private relations: but their spe­cific obligations to each other can only be the effectof, 1. a promise, 2. a benefit, or 3. an injury: andwhen these obligations are ratified by law, the in­terested party may compel the performance by ajudicial action. On this principle the civilians ofevery country have erected a similar jurisprudence,the fair conclusion of universal reason and justice. Promises. l. The goddess of faith (of human and socialfaith) was worshipped, not only in her temples, but * Of the civil jurisprudence of successions, testaments, codicils, legacies, andtrusts, the principles are ascertained in the Institutes of Cains (1. ii. tit. ii—ix.p. 91—144), Justinian (I. ii. tit. x—xxv.), and Theophilus (p. 328—514) ; andthe immense detail occupies twelve books (xxviii—xxxix.) of the Pandects.