OCR Output TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK V. in a city taken by the enemy : either the Gauls had nointention to destroy the city entirely *, or by letting theRomans see part of the city in flames, the Gaulie chiefsmeant to terrify them, and so engage them to surrenderout of regard to their houses, and not to set the whole inflames, that the hopes of saving the remainder, ciigbtbend the proud hearts of the enemy. The Romans ob­serving from the citadel, how the city swarmed with ene­mies, and following all their motions with their eyes, ajthey ran dispersed all over the streets, were every mo­ment struck with new matter of regret, and unable tostand the sluirk of what they saw and heard, were quitedistracted. Wherever the shouts of the enemy, shrieks of womenand children, tin. glare of the flames, or the crash of fal­ling-houses, denounced some new disaster, thither theyturned their eyes, their faces, and attention, as if fortunehad placed them on the top of an eminence, expresslytb be the sad spectators of the ruin of their country;having nothing left them now of all that belonged to.them, but their bodies jto defend. Their case was moredeplorable than that of any other besieged, for they were.shut up from Hie relief of their country, whilst, at thesame time, they saw every thing they could have calledtheir own, in the hands of the enemy. The first day, so full of trouble, was followed by anight no less terrible. And when this resiles* nightgave place to a new day, some new tragical scene wasevery moment exhibited before them. However, over­whelmed and oppressed as they were, with such a com­plication of miseries, they still continued inflexible, andalthough they saw the whole city in flames and levelledwith the ground, they were determined to defend to theirlatest breath, the poor little hill, which they yet couldcall their own, being the only spot that was reserved forliberty. The continual view of so dreadful a scene,which was every day repeated before their eyes, badinured them, in a manner, to their calamities, so thatthey became insensible of their poignancy ; regardingonl% their arms, and the swords in their right hands, asthe only hope and resource, on which, from thencefotth,they were to depend. * Read, Omait dilenda urbls, &c.