OCR Output E.VUI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 367 aright. A moderation, finely tempered between thefew and the many, was now inforced. And, from thelow situation into which their affairs were now plunged,this enabled Athens co re-erect her head. They decreed, sarther, the recallroent of Alcibiadesand his adherents; and, dispatching a deputation to himand the army at Samos, exhorted them to exert theirutmost efforts for the public service. In the first moments of this new revolution, Pisanderand Alexicles, with their partisans, and in general allthe great sticklers for the oligarchy, withdraw privatelyto Decelea. But Aristarchus, who was one of the ge­nerals of the State, took a different route from all therest; and, carrying off a party of archers, though rankBarbarians, went off towards Oenoe: Oenoe was a for­tress of the Athenians on the frontiers of Bœotia. Butthe Corinthians, on a provocation peculiar to them­selves, having procured the concurrence of the Bœo­tians, held it now blocked up, because a party of theircountrymen, drawing off from Decelea, had been putto the sword by a sally of the garrison from Oenoe. A-ristarchus, therefore, having in a conference settled mat­ters with the besiegers, deceives the garrison in Oenoe,by afluring them, that, " as their, countrymen in A-*' thens had made up all their quarrels with the Lace-"dasmonians, they also were bound to deliver up this*' place to the Bœotians; and that this was an exprese"provision in the treaty." Qiying credit therefore tohtm as in public command, and ignorant of all the latetransactions because closely blocked up, they agree withthe enemy and evacuate the fortress. In this mannerthe Bœotians regained possession of abandoned Oenoe:And thus the oligarchy and sedition were suppressed atAthens. But, about the same space of time in the current sum­mer, in regard to the Peloponnesians at Miletus: .•■ When none of those, who were substituted by Tissa-phernes during his absence at Aspcndus, made regular payments;