OCR Output 40 TITUS LJVIUS' BOOK I. individual; for nobody among a people, so lately em?.bodied, was conspicuous enough to have pretensions; thecontest was among the orders. The Sabines contendedthat it was their turn to furnish a king, as on their partnone had succeeded toTatius as joint sovereign with Ro­mulus; and thereby, their constitutional right was indanger of prescription. The old Romans could not think of swearing allegianceto a foreigner. But however much they differed in these•particulars, they were all agreed in one essential, thatthey must have a king; for they had not yet tasted thesweets of liberty. The fathers too were under no smallconcern, lest, whilst the city had no governor, and thearmy no head, they should be attacked by some foreignpower, especially as their neighbours bore them no goodwill. Therefore they were determined to have somehead, though in the choice neither party would yield tothe other. For this reason, the hundred fathers came toa resolution of sharing the sovereign power among them­selves. For this purpose, they divided their number in­to ten decuries, one being chosen in every decury, whoshould have the supreme direction of affairs^ and thoughten governed, only one of them was attended by the lie-tors and ensigns of government. Their power continuedfor five days, and regularly passed through the whole forthe space of a year, that they had no king. This interval of regal government from its own nature,was called an interregnum, a name it still retains. Afterthis, the people began to complain, that their slavery wasincreased in proportion to the number of their masters,having now an hundred instead of one; and seemed de­termined, for the future, to obey but one king, and himtoo of their own choosing. When the fathers saw howmatters were like to turn, thought it most prudent tomake a voluntary resignation of what they must soonlose, and paid a compliment to the people, by yielding tothem the supreme power, with this special provision, thatthey should j'ot, by the concession, give up their ownprivileges. \ For they enacted, that the people shouldnave the nomination, but that should only be valid, whenratified by the fathers^ Upop this law, though it is now