OCR Output SABISL 867 SABINI. «. tad on (heir sacerdotal as well as religious in-j'Jom. This is in entire accordance with thenrirr given of the Sabines by Varro and Pliny;! it u 00 wonder therefore that the traditions of l:.»n».n generally ascribed to Numa, the Sabine;. tht whole, or by far the greater part, of the;'.-n» institutions of their country, in the same:rnr u they did the military and political onesku predecessor Komulus. Numa, indeed, be-rreat extent the representative, or rather mprvnatkm of the Sabine element of the■n people; at the same time that he was soraBy regarded as the founder of all religious - «nd institutions, that it became customary tois* to mm even those which were certainly not•bine origin, but belonged to the Latins or were"J from Alba. (Ambrosch, Stwlien, pp. 141U; Sehwrgler, R. G. vol. i. pp. 543, 554.)hnoiriwat these earliest traditions concerningrrUtuins of the Sabines with Rome, Cures isaty that appears to take the most prominent rstius himself was king of Cures (Dionys.r0: and it was thither also that the patricians •fler the interregnum, to seek out the wise■scAeNama. (Lit. i. 18; Dionys. ii. 58.) Aman striking proof of the connection of theu> Sabine* with Cures was found in the namex:ritn», which came to be eventually applied to>i"k Riman people, and which was commonlyi-n-J as immediately derived from that of Cures. L 13; Varr. L. L. vi. 68; Dionys. ii. 46;i v. p. 828.) But this etymology is, to say■at extremely doubtful; it is far more probable\:» name of Qnirites was derived from44 quiris,"ir. sari meant merely " spearmen" or " war- jurt as Quirinos was the "spear-god," orI «v, closely connected, though not identical Vlimm or Mara. It is certain also that this■rity of Carat, if it ever really existed, ceased*"7 early period. No subsequent allusion to it isa' Ktxuan history, and the city itself was in his-I tinea • very inconsiderable place. [C LIVES-]<■ clue union thus established between the ■ and the Sabines who had settled themselves• '/a rioal did Dot secure the rising city fromits with the rest of the nation. Already in>n "f Tullas Hnstilius, the successor of Numa,d tin! monarch engaged in hostilities with the - *l>oee territory he invaded. The decisiveis said to hare taken place at a forest calledMtirtraa, the site of which is unknown. (Liv.hwa iai. 82, 33.) During the reign of i iUrrius, who is represented as himself of ■ l-"-mt (he was a grandson of Numa), no with the Sabines occur; bat his successor-Mjs Prisms was engaged in a war with thatwhich appears to have been of a formidableJ' vi. The Sabines, according to Livy, began*^ Inr crossing the Anio ; and after their final>• m tohl that they were deprived of Col-r-i the adj<iining territory. (Liv. i. 36—38;1.1:. 3J— 66.) Cicero also speaks of Tarquin"'■««g the Sabines from the very walls of the(Cte. ei> Sep. H. 20.) There seems there-'l«iht that they bad at this time extendedprvrr to the right bank of the Anio, and made-* masters of a considerable part of the - > »hirli had previously belonged to the Latins.t-„* Time no further mention of them occursljVtt of Home till after the expulsion of the*ul in b. c. 504. after the repulse of Porseoa, a Sabine war again broke out. and from this timethat people appears almost as frequently among theenemies of Rome, as the Veientes or the Volsciana.But the renewal of hostilities was marked by one in­cident, which exercised a permanent effect on Romanhistory. The whole of one clan of the Sabines,headed by a leader named Atta Clausus, dissentingfrom the policy of their countrymen, migrated in abody to Rome, where they were welcomed as citizens,and gave rise to the powerful family and tribe of theClaudii. (Liv. ii. 16; Dionys. v. 40 ; Virg. Am.vii. 708;Tacisn»i. xi.24; Appian, Rom. i. Fr. 11.)It is unnecessary to recapitulate in detail the ac­counts of the petty wars with the Sabines in the earlyages of the Republic, which present few features ofhistorical interest. They are of much the same ge­neral character as those with the Veientes and theVolsciana, but for some reason or other seem to havebeen a much less favourite subject for popular legendand national vanity, and therefore afford few of thosestriking incidents and romantic episodes with whichthe others have been adorned. Livy indeed disposesof them for the most part in a very summary manner;but they are related in considerable detail by Diony-sius. One thing, however, is evident, that neitherthe power nor the spirit of the Sabines had been1 roken; as 11 icy are represented in B. c. 469, ascarrying their ravages up to the very gates of Rome;and even in B. c. 449, when the decisive victory ofM. Iloratius was followed by the capture of theSabine camp, we are told that it was found full ofbooty, obtained by the plunder of the Roman terri­tories. (Liv. ii.'l6, 18, &c, iii. 26, 30, 38, 61—63; Dionys. v. 37—47, vi. 31, &c.) On this, ason several other occasions, Kretnm appears as thefrontier town of the Sabines, where they establishedtheir head-quarters, and from whence they made in­cursions into the Roman territory. There is nothing in the accounts transmitted to usof this victory of M. Iloratius over the Sabines todistinguish it from numerous othor instances of simi­lar successes, but it seems to have been really ofimportance ; at least it wis followed by the remark­able result that the wars with the Sabines, whichfor more than fifty years had been of such perpetualrecurrence, ceased altogether from this time, and formore than a century and a half the name of theSabines is scarcely mentioned in history. The cir­cumstance is the more remarkable, because duringa great part of this interval the Romans were en­gaged in a fierce contest with the Samnites, the de­scendants of the Sabines, but who do not appear tohave maintained any kind of political relation withtheir progenitors. Of the terms of the peace whichsubsisted between the Sabines and Romans duringthis period we have no account. Niebuhr's conjec­ture that they enjoyed the rights of isopolity withthe Romans (vol. ii. p. 447) is certainly withoutfoundation; and they appear to hare maintained aposition of simple neutrality. We are equally at aloss to understand what should hare induced themat length suddenly to depart from this policy, butin the year B. c. 290 we find the Sabines once morein arms against Rome. They were, however, easilyvanquished. The consul M'. Curius Dentatus, whohad already put an end to the Third Samnite War,next turned his arms against the Sabines, and re­duced them to submission in the course of a singlecampaign. (Liv. Epit. xi.; Vict. IVr. 11L 33;Oms. iii. 22; Flor. i. 15.) They were severelypunished lor their defection; great numbers of pri­ 3 K 2