OCR Output 156 NOTES ON THE pumice stone; and that we reside at the bottom of certain ofthese hollows, while we fancy that we dwell on the summit ofthe earth. The great antiquity of this doctrine may be collectedfrom what Homer fays in the Iliad, that Heaven and Earth arecommon to the three divinities, Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto*:and consequently each of these mull be divided between them.The earth, therefore,must be divided analogous to the universe;into that which is celestial, terrestrial, and middle. And theremust be some part of it ethereal, which belongs to Jupiter. Asthis part therefore cannot be the surface on which we reside, itmust consequently be contiguous to the moon. See more con­cerning this curious and interesting theory, in my Introductionsto the Phædo and Timæus of Plato. Page 93. Ceres Anefidora.~\ This word means the bejlower ofgifts, and is agreeable to the etymon of Ceres given by Plato inthe Cratylus: for Jiytiilup, fays he, is Ji?<»<r<* luStf, a he/lowingmother. But why this goddess was so called by the wife ancients,the following beautiful extract from the MSS. Scholia of Procluson the Cratylus will abundantly unfold: "It is requisite toconsider this goddess, not only as the supplier of corporeal food,but, beginning from the gods, we should view her as first of allsupplying them with aliment, afterwards the natures posteriorto the gods, and last of all such as are indigent of corporealaliment. For the characteristic of love shines forth first ofall in the gods: and this is the cafe with the medicinal andprophetic powers of Apollo, and with those of every otherdivinity. But nutriment, when considered with reference to thegods, is the communication of intellectual plenitude from moreexalted natures to those of au inferior rank. Gods thereforeare nourished, when they view with the eye of intellect godsprior to themselves; when they are persecteJ, and view intelli­gible beauties, such as justice itself, temperance itself, and the * Tcua y lit |tw vajlut kcu paxfo; oTifftiej. Iliad. 15. like. -