OCR Output ~i!HAP. XLII.j OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247 of these valiant men deserves to be more distinctly no­ticed. Seven hundred had perished in the siege, twothousand three hundred survived to defend the breach.One thousand and seventy were destroyed with fire andsword in the last assault; and if seven hundred and thirtywere made prisoners, only eighteen among them werefound without the marks of honourable wounds. Theremaining five hundred escaped into the citadel, whichthey maintained without any hopes of relief, rejectingthe fairest terms of capitulation and service, till theywere lost in the flames. They died in obedience to thecommands of their prince; and such examples of loyaltyand valour might excite their countrymen to deeds ofequal despair and more prosperous event. The instantdemolition of the works of Petra confessed the astonish­ment and apprehension of the conqueror. A Spartan would have praised and pitied the virtue of The 01-these heroic slaves; but the tedious warfare and alter- Lazic warnate success of the Roman and Persian arms cannot de- tl^*9tain the attention of posterity at the foot of mount Cau­casus. The advantages obtained by the troops of Jus­tinian were more frequent and splendid; but the forcesof the great king were continually supplied, till theyamounted to eight elephants and seventy thousand men,including twelve thousand Scythian allies, and abovethree thousand Dilemites, who descended by their freechoice from the hills of Hyrcania, and were equally for­midable in close or in distant combat. The siege ofArchaeopolis, a name imposed or corrupted by theGreeks, was raised with some loss and precipitation; butthe Persians occupied the passes of Iberia: Colchos wasenslaved by their forts and garrisons; they devoured thescanty sustenance of the people; and the prince of theLazi fled into the mountains. In the Roman camp faithand discipline were unknown; and the independentleaders, who were invested with equal power, disputedwith each other the pre-eminence of vice and corruption.