OCR Output 47® THE HISTORY B QVO K confular power came into office. Thefe were Lu-. -/r,__t cius Julius lulus, and Lucius Furius Medullinus aY,R. 158. fourth time, Lucius Sergius Fidenas, Aulus Poftu-B. C. 394. mius Regillenfis, Publius Cornelius Maluginenfis,and Aulus Manlius. This year there ftarted up anew enemy, the Tarquinians; who, feeing the Ro­mans embroiled in fo many wars at once, againftthe Volfcians at Anxur, where the garrifon was be-fieged, at Lavici againft the ./Equans, who were bc-fieging the colony there j and alfo againft the Veien-tians and the Falifcians, and the Capenatians, and theiraffairs within their walls not lefs embarrafied by dif-fenfions, and thinking this a favourable ieafon toattack them with effect, fent their light-armed co­horts to make depredations on the Roman terri­tories, concluding that the Romans would eitherfufifer that affront to pafs unrevenged, rather thanburthen themfelves with an additional war, or if theyrefented it, would fend out an army neither numer­ous nor ftrong. The Romans felt greater indigna­tion at the Affront, than concern for the lofs fuftain-cd by the inroads of the Tarquinians. They, there­fore, undertook the bufinefs without either much,preparation or long delay. Aulus Poftumius andLucius Julius having collected a body of troops, notby a regular levy, for in that they were preventedby the tribunes of the commons, but moftly volun­teers, whom by perfualions they had prevailed on tofollow them, directed their march by crofs roadsthrough the territory of Caere, and came upon theTarquinians unawares, as they were returning fromtheir depredations, heavily laden with fpoil: theyflew great numbers of their men, got pofieffion ofall their baggage; and, having retaken the fpoilsof their lands, returned to Rome. The fpace oftwo days was allowed to the owners to reclaim theirproperty; on the third, what remained unclaimed,the greateft part of which had been the enemy's ownproperty, was fold by auction, and the produce dif- tributed;