OCR Output AN. 20.] 569 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. well know them yourselves. But as to thatundertaking which I have a mind to set aboutat present, and which will be a work of thegreatest piety and excellence that can possi­bly be undertaken by us; I will now declareto you. Our fathers indeed, when they re­turned from Babylon, built this temple to GodAlmighty. Yet does it want sixty cubits ofits largeness in altitude; for so much did thatfirst temple which Solomon built exceed thistemple. Nor let any one condemn our fa­thers for their negligence or want of pietyherein. For it was not their fault, that thetemple was no higher. For they were Cyrus,and Darius, the son of Hystaspes, who de­termined the measures for its rebuilding.And it hath been by reason of the subjectionof those fathers of ours to them and to theirposterity, and after them to the Macedonians,that they had not the opportunity to followthe original model of this sacred edifice; norcould raise it to its ancient altitude. Butsince I am now, by God's will, your governor;and I have had peace a long time, and havegained great riches, and large revenues; and,what is the principal thing of all, I am inamity with, and well regarded by, the Ro­mans; who, if I may so say, are the rulers ofthe whole world; I will do my endeavour tocorrect that imperfection, which hath arisenfrom the necessity of our affairs, and theslavery we have been under formerly; andto make a thankful return, after the mostpious manner, to God, for what blessings Ihave received from him, by giving me thiskingdom, and that by rendering his templeas complete as 1 am able." This speech, however, affrighted many ofthe people, as being unexpected; and be­cause it seemed incredible, it put a dampupon them; for they were afraid that hewould pull down the whole edifice, and notbe able to bring his intentions to perfectionfor its rebuilding. And this danger appeared to them to be very great; and the vastnessof the undertaking to be such as could hardlybe accomplished. But while they were inthis disposition, the king told them, he wouldnot pull down their temple till all things wereprepared for the building it up again. Andas he promised them this beforehand, so hedid not break his word; but got ready athousand wagons, that were to bring stonesfor the building; and chose out ten thousandof the most skilful workmen, and brought athousand sacerdotal garments, for as manyof the priests; and had some of them taughtthe art of stone-cutters, and others of car­penters, and then began to build: but not tillevery thing was well prepared for the work.So Herod took away the old foundations,and laid others, and erected the temple uponthem: being in length a hundred cubits, andin height twenty additional cubits; whichtwenty, upon the *sinking of their founda­tions, fell down. And this part it was thatwe resolved to raise again in the days ofNero. Now the temple was built of stonesthat were white and strong: their length wastwenty-five cubits, their height was eight,and their breadth about twelve. And thewhole structure, as was also the structure ofthe royal cloister, was on each side lower;but the middle was much higher; till theywere visible to those that dwell in the coun­try for a great many furlongs; but chiefly tosuch as lived over against them, and thosethat approached to them. The temple haddoors also at the entrance, and lintels overthem, of the same height with the templeitself. They were adorned with their em­broidered veils, with their flowers of purple,and pillars interwoven. And over these, butunder the crown-work, was spread out agolden vine, with its branches, hanging downfrom a considerable height; the largenessand fine workmanship of which was a sur­prising sight to the spectators; to see what * Some of our modern students in architecture havemade a strange blunder here; when they imagine, thatJosephus affirms the entire foundations of the temple, orholy house, sunk down into the rocky mountain, on whichit stood, no less than 20 cubits. See Lamy de Templo,page 1083. Whereas it is clear, that they were thefoundations of the additional 20 cubits only, above thehundred; (made perhaps weak on purpose, and only forshew and grandeur,) that sunk or fell down; as Dr.Hudson rightly understands him. Nor is the thing itself possible in the other sense. Agrippa's preparation forbuilding the inner parts of the temple 20 cubits higher,history Of the War, V. 1. must, in all probability, referto this matter: since Josephus says here, that this whichhad fallen down was designed to be raised up again underNero; under whom Agrippa made that preparation. Butwhat Josephus says presently, that Solomon was the firstking of the Jews; appears by the parallel place, XX. 9.and other places, to be meant only, the first of David'sposterity, and the first builder of the temple.