OCR Output 358 MINAEI. MINAEI. marks, in direct opposition to Gosselin, tliat Bnehart,in placing them at Carno-l-Mnnazuli (I. Karn-et-Maglital), only 3 stations S. of Mecca, which liesupposes to be the Carna or Carana of l'liny,brings them too far to the X., for that " Ptolemyplaces them much farther S." (J'eripliu, cap.xxvii. p. 363, anil note 254.) But M. Jomardholds that Wady Mina, to the S. (?) of Mecca, cor­responds with the ancient Minaci: the distance toAda he computes as 10J decrees, or 294 hours(ap. Mengin. Uutoire de VHgypte, <fc. p. 377).Mr. Forster assigns them a wide extent of territoryin the modern provinces of lledjaz, Sedjd, andYemen, even to the borders of I/adramauL '■ Thescat of this great commercial people, who dividedwith the Gerraei the commerce of the peninsula(transported by D'Anville to the heart of Yemen,and by Vincent to the country of the Atyr Arabs),assuredly lay, if any reliance whatever may beplaced in the position of 1'tolemy, in an inlanddirection KSK. of Mecca. For the Minaei, accordingto liitn, lay immediately S. of the '• regio interiormyrrifera;" and this, again, was situated due S. ofthe Manit.ie. The Manitac being the same with theMezeyne, this description would identify the " in­terior myrrifera" with the fruitful mountain regionE. of Tayf. and the Minaei. consequently, with thegreat Atrybc. tribe described by Burrkliardt, as themost numerous of the tribes of lledjaz, and in­habiting the rich inland country stretching eastward,under those mountains, from Lye and Kohikh toTtiraba." {Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 251, 252.) He adds,in a note(*),"' Its site (viz. that of the ' interior myr­rifera'). with that of its inhabitants,'the Minaei,may be determined independently, by the concurrenttestimonies of 1'tolemy and Piiny: the former placeshis Chargatha [XaoidtJa, l'al. Xap-ydfla], and thelatter his Karriata, in conjunction with the Minaei.The town thus denominated is clearly that ofKariatam; but Kariatain is seated beneath, orrather upon, the mountains of Tayf." Having thusdetermined their northern lwrder " S. of KariaUtin,or in the plains below the mountain chain runningEXE. from Tayf," he tlms defines their southernlimits. "On the S., according to Ptolemy, the Minaeiwere bounded by the l>oreni and the Mokeretae. Itis impossible to mistake, in the Doreni, the inhabit­ants of Zokran, or in the Mokeretae, those ofMrkhra, two adjoining provinces, lying S. of Meccaand Tayf, and crossing the entire space between thesea and the uninhabited desert. This decisive veri­fication shuts in the ancient Minaei between themountains of Zohran and Mekhra, and those X.of Tayf" (p. 255). "The chief towns, the territory,and tilt; national habits of the Minaei, as describedby the ancient geographers, bear a remarkablecorrespondence to those of the ^4 taybe Arabs, thepresent inhabitants of this district; and the coinci­dence of the palm-groves, and other fruit-trees ofthe Minaei, and their wealth in cattle, noticed byPliny, with the excellent pasture-grounds, the greatabundance of camels and sheep, possessed by thepowerful tribe of Ateybe, and with the plantationsfur which Taraba is remarkable, that furnish all thesurrounding country with dates, environed, asBurckhardt describes both it and Tayf lohe, 'withpalm-groves and gardens, watered by numerousrivulets,' must be allowed to corroborate, in a veryremarkable manner, this verification of the ancientseats of the Minaei." (Forster, Arabia, vol. ii.Jip. 254—257.) Mr. Forster further identifies the principalof the Minaei (the Carman Regis of Itolerny)with Karti-al-Mniixil, a considerable town still Bobeing between 7'««y'and Mrkka; . . . and Caroonwith Karn-al-Mayial, upon the mountains S. <«°Tayf; which former Bochart had already identifiedw4th the Carna or Carana of Pliny. "The tile oftheir capital, within a few miles of Wady J/ma[immediately to the E. of Mrkka']. suggests ii*- r.'4improbable derivation of their name from that fam-ruseat of the idolatry of ancient Arabia" (p.254 nutrf);an hypothesis in which, it hss been seen, JteiLani uaa-cides. But, though fixing the original and prioriulseat of the Minaei in the S. of the Hnljnz, he thinks"it still is certain, from Pliny's statement, that tinspeople possessed a key to the commerce of theincense countiy, by having obtained the command >«*one of the two passes into the Djebnl-rxl-Kamrrr"(which is in the heart of lladramatit): and he henceinfers that they possessed one of the two ernpnriun.iof the trade in incense and myrrh, mentioned lyPliny, on the southern coast; "an inference which atonce conducts us to Thauane or Doan [NE. of RomFartaU], and to the mountain pass immntiafrlrbehind it" (p. 258, comp. voL i p. 135, 136). Thearguments in proof of this jiosition, sisl of the con­nection of the Minaei with the Joktanite patriarchJerah, which cannot be considered as convincing,are fully stated and enforced by Mr Forster withhis usual ingenuity (vol. i. pp. 128—136); bat itis an unfortunate circumstance that lie has removedthe central seat of this tribe,—descended, scDanlingto this hypothesis, from "the father of Yemen,*—into the territory of llrdjnz and for Sedjd; he main­tains that, "from E. to W. the Minaei slretihedthe entire breadth of the peninsula, their easternfrontier touching the Gerrheans, on tbe frrnamGulf; while Carman Regis, now Karn-al- i/a^zH.their metropolis, is seated only 21 leagues KSK- ofMekka, in the great province of Al-Kardje arlcmama" vol. i. p. lxviii ) The question of the position of the Minaeaeslias been investigated by M. Fresnel with a widVIydifferent result. (Journal Ariatique, 3uie J*' it.tome x. pp. 90 — 96, 176—200.) He Connorsthem to the antral ]<art of Yemen, and den**their connection cither with W'atly J/mo, nearMrkka, or with Mannh, an idol of the H «*lhav-lides and the KhouziTdes, between Mtkla aidMedina. He regards the name a* a |»*rjb> or.ruption of Yeinrnaei, the first syllable being oss-vertcd into the Greek article, in its tnuisnutaf-ofrom one language to another; but suggests aleeanother derivation of the name from the patriarchAyman, found in tbe native genealogies third iadescent from Saba. In continuation of the former ety­mology, he maintains that tbe name )"mni,whirs nowcomprehends the eastern quarter of Southern Arabia,was formerly proper to the centra] portion of thatprovince. He thinks that the capital of the Huxvi—the Carna or Carana of Strata, the Csnsa ofPliny, identical, also, with the Carman Keg-a efPtolemy (to which that geographer assigns too auraa latitude, as he does also the Miiuu-i)—is to befound in the A I-Kant of IIW* /Hws, fivw arsix dsys X.. or, according to another authiw-uv, | WNW-, of MukaUak. Their other town, Manaa*Baramalacuui. he places in the same valley. [hLa- i HI aha, 2.] The position thus assigned to Carna iathe Wady Doim, enables us to fix the extent of the I territory of the Minaei between the >->~-"' asal