OCR Output 362 'DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. Oriental queens. A concubine, in the strict sense of thecivilians, was a woman of servile or plebeian extraction,the sole and faithful companion of a Roman citizen, whocontinued in a state of celibacy. Her modest stationbelow the honours of a wife, above the infamy of a pros­titute, was acknowledged and approved by the laws:from the age of Augustus to the tenth century, the useof this secondary marriage prevailed both in the westand east, and the humble virtues of a concubine wereoften preferred to the pomp and insolence of a noblematron. In this connexion, the two Antonines, thebest of princes and of men, enjoyed the comforts of do­mestic love; the example was imitated by many citizensimpatient of celibacy, but regardful of their families. Ifat any time they desired to legitimate their natural chil­dren, the conversion was instantly performed by the cele­bration of their nuptials with a partner whose fruitfulnessand fidelity they had already tried. By this epithet of natu­ral, the offspring of the concubine were distinguishedfromthe spurious blood of adultery, prostitution, and incest, towhom Justinian reluctantly grants the necessary alimentsof life; and these natural children alone were capable ofsucceeding to a^ixth part of the inheritance of their re­puted father. According to the rigour of law, bastardswere entitled only to the name and condition of theirmother, from whom they might derive the character ofa slave, a stranger, or a citizen. The outcasts of everyfamily were adopted without reproach as the children ofthe state." Guardians The relation of guardian and ward, or, in Romanand wards. wor(jg> of iuior and pupil, which covers so many titles ofthe Institutes and Pandects/ is of a very simple and uni- » Thte hnmble hat legal rights of concuhines and natural children, are stated in theInstitutes, (lib. 1. tit. 10.)' the Pandects, (lib. 1. tit. 7.) the Code, (lib. 5. tit. 25.)and the Novels, (lib.'74. 89.) The researches of Hei Decems and Giannone (ail Le­gem Juliam et Papiam-Poppneam, c.4. p, 164—175.0pere PostHume,p. 108—158.)illustrate this interesting and domcstio subject. "See the article of guardians and wards in the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 13—26.) thePandects, (lib. 26, 27.) and the Code, (lib. 5. tit. 28—70.)