OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the fruits, that grow in our European gardens, are of foreign ex- introductiontraction, which, in many cafes, is betrayed even by their nasties:the apple was a native of Italy, and when the Romans had tasted thericher flavour of the apricot, the peach, the pomegranate, thecitron, and the orange, they contented themselves with applyingto all these new fruits, the common denomination of apple, dis­criminating them from each other by the additional epithet of theircountry. 2, In the time of Homer, the vine grew wild in theisland of Sicily, and most probably in the adjacent continent 5 butit was not improved by the skill, nor did it afford a liquor gratefulto the taste of the savage inhabitants 9+. A thousand years af­terwards, Italy could boast, that of the fourscore most generousand celebrated wines, more than two-thirds were produced fromher foil 9*. The blessing was soon communicated to the Narbon-nese province of Gaul; but so intense was the cold to the north ofthe Cevennes, that, in the time of Strabo, it was thought impossibleto ripen the grapes in those parts of Gaul 9\ - This -difficulty,however, was gradually vanquished; and there is some reason tobelieve that the vineyards of Burgundy are as old as the age of the- Antonines 97. %. The olive, in the western world, was the com*- _ J The olive. panion as well as the symbol of peace. Two centuries after thefoundation of Rome, both Italy and Africa were strangers to thatuseful plant; it was naturalized in those countries; and at lengthcarried into the heart of Spain and Gaul. The timid errors of theancients, that it requieed a certain degree of heat, and could onlyflourish in the neighbourhood of the sea, were insensibly explode*! byindustry and experience 9\ 4. The cultivation of flax was trabfc ^ported from Egypt to Gaul* and enriched the whole country^however it might impoverish the particular lands on which it wassown". 1 $. The use of artificial graffea became familiar ta the Artificial•farmers both of Italy and the provinces^ partkulayly thfi[iLuccrnej 8rafses*which derivtd [its Iname and torigin frcra Medih *^-:;The astbiat 4 supply