OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 285 the heavens: but they every where energize according to a pa­ternal and demiurgic mode, unfolding the one fabrication of theuniverse, and accommodating it to parts. But their allotmentand distribution are first according to the whole universe: and oneof these (Jupiter) produces the essences of things; but the second(Neptune), lives and generations; and the third (Pluto) admi­nisters the divisions of forms. And one of these establishes in theone demiurgus of the world every thing proceeding from thence;but the other evocates all things into progression: and the third,converts all things to himself. But their second distribution isinto the parts of the universe. For the first of these gods governsthe inerratic sphere, and its revolution. But the second presidesover the planetary spheres, and perfects their multiform, effica­cious, and prolific motions. And the last' of these gods governsthe sublunary region, and perfects intellectually the terrestrialworld. But in the third place, we may contemplate these threedemiurgic progressions in that which is generated. Jupiter there­fore governs the summit of generated natures, and the sphere offire and air: but Neptune excites with an all-various motion theextremely-mutable elements, and is the inspector and guardian ofever)- humid essence subsisting in air and water : and Pluto admi­nisters by his providence the earth, and all which it contains; andon this account he is called Terrestrial "Jupiter. "In the fourth place, with respect to the whole of generation,Jupiter is allotted the most exalted places, in which, as Sorratesobserves in the Phædo, the regions detUned to blessed fouls arecontained ; because they live stparatc from gem ration, under thegovernment of Jove : but Neptune governs hollow places and ta­verns, in which generation, motion and concussions subsist; onwhich account he is called the carthJLaling god: nr,d Pluto go­verns places under the earth, the various streams of water, Tar­tarus, and the places in which fouls are judged. Hence the foulswhich have not yet proceeded into generation, but abide in theintelligible pluce, are suit! to be of the order os Jupiter: but such M