OCR Output O F R O M E. 509 aflault to be made on the city. At the enemy's firft B O O Kapproach, they iuppofed that they would begin the , '_ _,.affault, as foon as they fhould arrive at the city, Y.R. 365.imagining that they would have remained at tneB'c.J87.Allia, if this were not their intention. Then, aboutfun-fet, they fuppoled it would begin before night,becaufe there was not much of the day remaining;then that the defign was put off until night, in orderto ftrike the greater terror. At laft, the approach oflight funk them in difmay, and the evil itfelf whichthey dreaded, clofed this fcene of unremitted ap-prehenfion, the enemy marching into the gates inhoftile array. During that night however, and alfothe following day, the ftate preferved a character,very different from that which fuch a daftardly flightat the Allia had indicated: for there being no roomto hope, that the city could pofiibly be defend­ed by the fmall number of troops remaining, a re-folution was taken, that the young men who were fitto bear arms, and the abler part of the fenate, withtheir wives and children, mould go up into thecitadel and the Capitol; and having collectedftores of arms and corn, mould, in that ftrong poft,maintain the defence of the gods, of the inhabit­ants, and of the name of Rome. That the Fla-men Quirinalis, and the veftal prieftefles, fhouldcarry away, far from flaughter and conflagration,all that appertained to the gods of the ftate;and that their worfhip mould not be intermitted,until there mould be no one left to perform it. "If."the citadel, and the Capitol, the manfion of the"gods; if the fenate, the fource of public cown-"lei; if the youth of military age, fhould fur-"vive the ruin which impended over the city, they"deemed the lofs of the aged light, as of a crowd"left behind in the city, with a certain profpect of'' perifhing." And that fuch of this multitude asconfifted of plebeians, might bear their doom withthe greater refignation, the aged nobles, formerly. dignified