OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. my subject, if it were in my "power to delineate the pri­vate, life of the conquerors of Italy: and I shall relate withpleasure the adventurous gallantry of Autharis, whichbreathes the true spirit of chivalry and romance.d Afterthe loss of his promised bride, a Merovingian princess,he sought in marriage the daughter of the king of Bava­ria; and the Garibald accepted the alliance of the Italianmonarch. Impatient of the slow progress of negotiation;the ardent lover escaped from his palace, and visited thecourt of Bavaria in the train of'his own embassy. Atthe public audience, the unknown stranger advanced tothe throne, and informed Garibald, that the ambassadorwas indeed the minister of state, but that he alone wasthe friend of Autharis, who had trusted him with thedelicate commission of making a faithful report of thecharms of his spouse. Theudelinda was summoned toundergo this important examination; and after a pauseof silent rapture, he hailed her as the queen of Italy, andhumbly requested, that, according to the custom of thenation, she would present a cup of wine to the first of hernew subjects. By the command of her father, she Obey-,ed: Autharis received the cup in his turn, and, in restor­ing it to the princess, he secretly touched her hand, anddrew his own finger over his face and lips. In the even­ing, Theudelinda imparted to her nurse the indiscreetfamiliarity of the stranger, and was comforted by theassurance, that such boldness could proceed only from;the king her husband, who, by his beauty and courage,appeared worthy of her love. The ambassadors weredismissed: no soonendid they reach the confines of Itarly, than Autharis, raising himself on his horse, darted hisbattle-axe against a tree with incomparable strength anddexterity. "Such (said he to the astonished Bavarians),such are the strokes of the king of the Lombards." Onthe approach of a French army, Garibald and his daugh- d The story of Autharis and Theudelinda is related by Paul, lib. 3. c. 29. 34. and ■any fragment of Bavarian antiquity excites the indefatigable diligence of the count deBuat. Hist. desPeuples de I'liurope, tom. It. p. 595—035. tom. 12. p.t—53. VOL. V. 2 F