OCR Output 4 PREFACE. Feeling these difficulties, and aware of the quantity oftime and labour that must necessarily be devoted to suchan undertaking, even in the most favourable circum­stances, I have resolved to lay before the public the fol­lowing specimen of the manner in which I propose toexecute the translation, in order that they may judge ofmy competency to the undertaking, and that I may beable to profit by any remarks that are made on thisportion of the work in the farther prosecution of it. I have selected the 33d book, in addition to the 1st, asone with which I was previously familiar, and which, Ithink, may be considered as exhibiting a fair specimen ofthe merits of the original.1 Upper Bedford Place,Sept. 23, 1828. 1 The editions of Pliny which I have used are that of Dalecamp, fol.Franc. 1599; of De Laet, 12mo. Elz. L. B. 1635; the Var. of Gronovius,8vo. L. B. 1669; and that of Valpy, 8vo. Lond. 1826, which may beconsidered as combining the editions of Harduin and Brotier; I havegenerally followed the text of this edition. I have frequently foundadvantage in referring to the translation of Holland, a writer highlycommendable for his diligence, but whose style, which must have been,at all times, harsh and paraphrastical, is now completely antiquated.His translation was published in 1635; he appears to have followed thetext of Dalecamp. The French translation of Pinet, published in 1566,allowing for the period when it was written, is a work of much merit;but it has been superseded by the elaborate translation executed byPoinsinet de Sivri, in conjunction with other learned individuals, whichwas published between the years 1771 and 1782. The text of Harduinhas been employed in this work. The sense of the author is given withcorrectness and elegance, but I conceive that the translator has failed inconveying an idea of the style of the original. Something may pro­bably depend on the idiom of the French language, which does noteasily admit of the concise abruptness, which is so characteristic ofPliny. I conceive it to be the duty of a translator to transfuse into hisversion, as far as it can be accomplished, not merely the ideas of theauthor, but the language in which they are cloathed.