OCR Output 378 MUTINA. MUTINA. possession shortly after, at the commencement of theSecond Punic War, B.c. 218. At that periodMutina must have already been a considerable placeand well fortified; as we are told that, when thesudden outbreak of the Oauls interrupted the po-ceedings of the triumvirs who were appointed tofound the new colony of Placentia, and compelledthem to fly for safety, they took refuge within thewalls of Mutina, which afforded them an effectualprotection against the arms nf the barbarians. (Liv.xxi. 25, 26, xavii. 21; Pol. iii. 40.) Polybiuscalls it at this period a Roman colony; but it seemsprobable that this is a mistake; for we have no ac­count of its foundation as such, nor does Livyeverallude to Mutina as a colony, where he expresslynotices those of Cremona and Placentia (xxvii. 10).L*ut whether it had been fortified by the Romans, orwas a regular walled city previously existing (inwhich case it must have been, like its neighbourBononia, of Etruscan origin), we have no means ofdetermining, though the latter supposition is per­haps the more probable. In any case it continuedto be held by the Romans not only during the SecondTunic War, but throughout the long wars whichFollowed with the Cisalpine Gauls and Ligurians.(Lit. xxxv. 4, 6.) It was not till after the final de­feat of the Boians in n.c. 191, <>n which occasionthey were deprived of a large portion of their hinds,that tiie Romans determined to secure the newlyacquired territory, by planting there the two coloniesof Parma ami Mutina, which were accordingly es­tablished in b.c. 183. (Liv. xxxix. 55.) Theywere both of them ucoloniae cirium so that theirinhabitants from the first enjoyed the full rights ofRoman citizens: 2000 settlers were planted in each,and these received 5 jugera each for their portion.(Liv. I. c.) The construction of the great militaryhigh road of the Via Aemilia a few years before,B.C. 187 (Liv. xxxix. 2), must have greatly facili­tated the foundation of these new colonics, andbecame the chief source of their prosperity. lint shortly after its foundation Mutina sustainedn severe disaster. The Ligurians, who still oc­cupied the heights and'valleys of the Apennines bor­dering on the lioian territory, in n.c. 177 made asudden descent upon the new colony, and not onlyravaged its territory, but actually made themselvesmasters of the town itself. This was, however, re*covered with little difficulty by the consul C. Clau­dius, 8000 of the Ligurinns were put to the sword,and the colonists re-established in the ptssession ofMutina. (Liv. xli. 14. 16.) For a considerableperiod after this, we do not again meet witli itsname in history; but it appears that it must haverisen rapidly to prosperity, and become one of themost flourishing of the towns along the line of theVia Aemilia. Hence it bears a conspicuous part inthe Civil Wars. When Lepidus, after the death ofSulla, n.c. 78, raised an insurrection in CisalpineGaul against the senate. Mutina was almost theonly place which w;ls able to offer any resistance tothe arms of Pumpeius, and was held against him byBrutus for a considerable period. (Tint. Pomp,10.) lint it was the siege which it sustained, andthe battles fought in its neighbourhood after thedeath of Caesar, n.c. 44, that have rendered thename of Mutina chiefly celebrated in history, andarc referred to by Suetonius under the name ofu It el him Mutinense." (Suet. Aug. 9.) On thatoccasion I), llrutus, to whom the province of Cisal­pine Caul had been decreed by the senate, threw 'himself into Mutina with three legions and liar*I body of auxiliary troops. Here lie was bfjtertd kjM. Antonins with a numerous army; but the ttutehaving declared against the latter, the two etftia,Hirtins and Pansa, as well as tite young Oclaviss,were despatched to the relief and succuorof Bratm(Jan. B.C. 4.').) Antouius at thin lime occapMBononia, as well as Parma and Regium, with ailgarrisons, while he himself, with the bulk of Iforces, maintained the siege, or rather sImMI stMutina. Hirtius on his arrival seized on Cbtas^while Octavian occupied Korum Cornelii (/•***^From thence they advanced after considerable is>lays, took possession of ltononia, and api^acWMutina itself, but were unable to oj<en cciumiuics*tions with Brutus. Meanwhile the other tanaalC. Pans*, was advancing with a force of 4 newjjrai.-ed legions to their support, when he wisifrtacked by Antouius, at a place cnllrd Fvram GsVlorum, about 8 miles from Mutina on the roadlBononia. [Forum Gallobum.] A severe ea>test ensued, in which Pansa was mortally woonaaihut the other consul. Hirtius, having fallen ou Aatony's army in the rear, completely defeat*! it, Sicompelled him to retire to his camp before Matins, isecond battle took place some days afterwaaj(April 27, ii. c. 4.'!)- under the walls of that cir/,1which Hirtius was slain; but the forces ot Antasiiwere acain worsted, and that general found hiamcompelled to abandon the siege (which had a*lasted for above four months), and retire westwiwith a view of crossing the Alps. (Appian, B.iiii. 49—51, 61, 65—72; Dion Cass. sjvi. 3i-iCic. «</ Fam, x. 11, 14, 30, S3,Veil Pat. ii. 61; Suet. Aug. 10.) Mutina was evidently at this period m flcurahtand important town, as well as fctronjly fortiMCicero calls it "firmissima et splendidiseima piRomani colonia" (I*hil. v. 9); and these prauatconfirmed by Appian (Z>. C. iii. 49), who est"a wealthy city," as well as by the fact, thatcapable of supporting so large an army as tfclBrutus for so long a time. Mela, also, nnglsiMutina, together with Bononia and Patanam,amost opulent cities in this part of Italy. (Mela,]§ 2.) The same inference may fairly be 4from the circumstance, that it was at Mats*numerous body of senators who had accomaithe emperor Ot ho from Rome, in a. u. 69, Ten*while Otho himself advanced to meet the gaaasVitelline, and where they very nearly fell rienjithe animosity of the soldiery, on the first new**defeat and death. ('I'ac. Ili*t. ii. 52 — 54.)with this exception, we meet with scarcdymention of Motion under the Roman empirea late period, though the still extant inscri)attest the fact of its continued prosperity,of these give to the city the title of Cokoido aKoM.li and'Pliny. (Mela, /. c..; Pfcn. is. 20; Cavcdoni, Mar mi Modmesi, pp. 120,!We learn also from Pliny and Strabo, that ifamous for the excellence of the wool prodMits territory, as well as for its wine, SBkJcity itself possessed considerable manofart*earthenware, as well as woollen goods, (Mrp. 218; Plin. xiv.3. s. 4, xxxv. IS. a. 46; Ovii. 2. § 3.) In a. i>. 312, Mutina was taken by Const]during his war with Maxentius, but appear* fenI suffered but little on this occasion. (Xaxar. f27.) before the close uf the century, buwerer*