OCR Output 172 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. to their scandalous behaviour 'last war was terrible;especially when they considered that they might be inthe same predicament, to have the terror of two armiesupon them at the same time. Wherefore, to'avoid adanger which tlirea-'ened them within, as well as with­out, thev kept within their camp, hoping that time,and a little delay, would soften their resentment againstthe senate, and bring them to reason. This promptedthe confederates to act with still greater assurance. Theychallenged them tri turn on*. They rode .up before thecamp and insulted them. At last when they found nei­ther the consuls, nor the army, in ihe least affected bytheir rodomontade, they cried out, " That they onlypretended to have differences among themselves, toserve for a cloak to their cowardice; and that it wasnot the fidelity, but the courage of the soldiers, whichthe consuls suspected.—That silence and quietnessamong men in arms was a species of sedition neverheard of before;"Besides these reproaches, they upbraided .them withthe obscurity of their origin and novelty of their fami­lies; in some respects true, and others not. These in­vectives thrown out under their noses, at the foot of therampart and'gates of the camp, gave the consuls no con­cern, but stung the soldiers, unaccustomed to such lan­guage, with shame and indignation, at the satiietime thattheir domestic quarrels were quite forgot. That the ene­my should pa-s unpunished, they could by no meanssubscribe to; but then they could not bear that the fa­thers, or consuls, should have the glory "of a Victory.Thus were they agitated between two violent impulsesof mind, with respect to their foreign and domestic ene­mies. At length their indignation against the formerprevailed, unable to bear their outrageous insults anylonger: They came in crowds to the consuls tents, in­sisting that they should be led on to battle, and the sig­nal given. The consuls seemed to confer together aboutthe part they should act, and drew out their conferenceto a great length. They wished for nothing more thanto engage; but it was necessary to conceal it, in order toquicken the resentment of the soldiers, by a seeming de­lay and opposition. They therefore returned for an­