OCR Output VENETIA. VENETIA. 1273 Ike siege of Troy, and there founded the city ofl'sttvium. (Liv. L I; Virg. Am. i. 242; Serv.ad loc.) This legend, bo generally adapted by theItumans end later Greeks, seems to have been cur­rent as early as the time of Sophocles. (Strab. xiii.p. 608.) Some writers, however, omitted all men­tion of Anterior, and merely represented tlie tribe ofthe Ueneti, after baring lost their leader Pylaemenesin the Trojan War, as wandering through Thraceto the head of the Adriatic, where they ultimatelyettablished themselves. (Id. xii. p. 543; Scymn.Ch. 389.) Whether there be any foundation forthis story or not, it is evident that it throws nolight upon the national affinities of the Italian Ve-Dcti. The other two tribes of the same name wouldiwm to lead our conjectures in two different direc­tions. From the occurrence of a tribe of Venetitiming the Transalpine Gauls, just as we find amongthat people a tribe of Cenomani and of Senones, cor-rnponding to the two tribes of that name on theItalian side of the Alps, it would seem a verynatural inference that the Veneti also were a Gaul-Ui ran, who had migrated from beyond the Alps.To this must be oppoeed the fact that, while adistinct historical tradition of the successive migra­tions of the Gaulish tribes in the N. of Italy hasbeen preserved and transmitted to ns (Liv. v. 34,35). no trace is recorded of a similar migration ofthe Veneti; but, on the contrary, that people is uni­formly distinguished from the Gauls: Livy expresslyipeaks of them as occupying the same tract whichthey did in his time not only before the first Gaulishmigration, but before the plains of Northern Italy■mi occupied by the Etruscans (lb. 33); and Poly­pus emphatically, though briefly, describes them as> different people from the Gauls their neighbours,in-t ruing a different language, thouch resembling:hem much in their manners and habits (ii. 17).*trabo also speaks of them as a distinct people•" n the Gauls, though he tells us that one ac-■■unt of their origin derived them from the Gaulish*ople of the same name that dwelt on the shores ofbe ocean. (Strab. iv. p. 195, v. p. 212.) Buthere is certainly no ground for rejecting the distinctutemenl of I'olybius, and we may safely acquiescei the conclusion that they were nut of Celtic ormulish origin. On the other hand the existence of a tribe orrople on tlie southern shores of the Baltic, who weienown to the Romans (through their German neigh-|<U!>) as Venedi or Veneti, a name evidently iden--«l «ith that of the Wenden or Wends, by whichk Slavonian race in general is still known to the••nr.ana, would lead us to regard the Italian Veneti<o aa probably a Slavonian tribe : and this seemsi tlie whole the most plausible hypothesis. Therenothing improbable in the circumstance that theavooiaiu may at an early period have extendedleir migrations as far as the head of the Adriatic,■ 1 left there a detached branch or offshoot of theirain stuck. The commercial intercourse of themeti with the shores of the Baltic, a traffic whicho find already established at a very early period,ay be the more readily explained if we suppose it!tare been carried on by tribes of the same origin,rndotus indeed represents the Veneti as an lllyrianbo (i. 196, v. 9); but it seems probable that theroe of lilyrians was applied in a vague sense to allr mountaineers that occupied the eastern coasts of• Adriatic, and some of these may in ancient timesre been of Slavonian origin, though the true lilyrians (the ancestors of the present Albanians)were undoubtedly a distinct people. Of the history of the Veneti as an independentpeople we know almost nothing ; but what little wedo learn indicates a marked difference between themand their neighbours the Gauls on one side, and theLiburnians and lilyrians on the other. They appearto have been a commercial, rather than a warlike,people : and from the very earliest dawn of historycarried on a trade in amber, which was brought over­land from the shores of the Baltic, and exchangedby them with Phoenician and Greek merchants.Hence arose the fables which ascribed the productionof that substance to the land of the Veneti, and ul­timately led to the identification of the Eridanus ofNorthern Europe with the Pad us of Northern Italy.[Ekidaxus.] Herodotus mentions a peculiar customas existing among the Veneti in his day, that theysold their daughters by auction to the highestbidder, aa a mode of disposing of them in marriage(i. 196). We learn also that they habitually woreblack garments, a taste which may be said to be re­tained by the Venetians down to the present day,but waa connected by the poets and mythographerawith the fables concerning the fall of Phaeton.(Scymn. Ch. 396.) Another circumstance for whichthey were distinguished was the excellence of theirhorses, and the care they bestowed on breeding andtraining them, a fait which was appealed to bymany as a proof of their descent from Antenor and"the horsetraining Trojans." (Strab. v. pp. 212,215.)It is clear that they were a people considerably moreadvanced in civilisation than either the Gauls or theLigurians, and the account given by Livy (x. 2) ofthe landing of Clermymus in the territory of Pata-rium (b.c.302) proves that at that period Patariuraat least was a powerful and well organised city.Livy indeed expressly contrasts the Veneti with thelilyrians, Liburnians, and Istrians, "genles ferae etmagna ex parte latrociniis maritiniia infantes." (Ib.)On this occasion we are told that the citizens ofPatarium were kept in continual alarm on accountof their Gaulish neighbours, with whom they seemto liare been generally on unfriendly terms. Thusat a still earlier period we are informed by Polybiusthat the retreat of the Srnonian Gauls, who hadtaken the city of Rome, was caused by an irrup­tion of the Venetians into the Gaulish territory(ii. 18). It was doubtless this state of hostility thatinduced them, as soon aa the Roman anus began tomake themselves felt in Northern Italy, to concludean Alliance with Rome against the Gauls (b.c. 215),to which they appear to have subsequently adheredwith unshaken fidelity. (Pnlyh. ii. 23, 24.) Hencewhile we afterward* find the Romans gradually car­rying their arms beyond the Veneti. and engaged infrequent Inutilities with the Carni and Istrians onthe extreme \erpe of Italy, no trace is found of anycollision with the Venetians. Nor liave w e any accountof the steps by which the latter passed from thecondition of independent allies to that of subjects ofthe Roman Republic. But it is probable that theprocess was a gradual one. and grew out of the merenecessity of the case, when the Romans had con­quered Istria and the land of the Carni, in whichlast they had established, in B.C. 181, the powerfulcolony of Aquilcia. It is certain that before theclose of the Republic the Veneti had Kased to hareany independent existence, and were comprised, likethe Gaulish tribes, in the province of Gallia Cisalpina,which was placed under the authority of Caesar, B. c