OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 23 which had been pending for more than thirty years betweenthe city and the king as to the possession of the province ofEmporia on the Lesser Syrtis, one of the most fertile in theCarthaginian territory, was at length (about 593) decided 161.by Roman commissioners to the effect that the Cartha­ginians should evacuate those towns of Emporia which stillremained in their possession, and should pay 500 talents(£122,000) to the king as compensation for the illegalenjoyment of the territory. The consequence was, that Mas-sinissa immediately seized another Carthaginian district onthe western frontier of their territory, the town of Tuscaand the great plains near the Bagradas; no course was leftto the Carthaginians but to commence another hopeless pro­cess at Rome. After long and, beyond doubt, intentionaldelay a second commission appeared in Africa; but, whenthe Carthaginians were unwilling to commit themselvesunconditionally to a decision to be pronounced by it asarbiter without an exact preliminary investigation into thequestion of right, and insisted on a thorough discussion ofthe latter question, the commissioners without further cere­mony returned to Home. The question of right between Carthage and Massinissa The de-thus remained unsettled; but the mission gave rise to a struction ofmore important decision. The head of the commission had Carthagebeen the old Marcus Cato, at that time perhaps the most at Rome°influential man in the senate, and, as a veteran survivorfrom the Hannibalic war, still filled with thorough hatredand thorough dread of the Phoenicians. With surprise andjealousy Cato had seen with his own eyes the flourishingstate of the hereditary foes of Rome, the luxuriant countryand the crowded streets, the immense stores of arms inthe magazines and the rich materials for a fleet; alreadyhe in spirit beheld a second Hannibal wielding all theseresources against Rome. In his honest and manly, butthoroughly narrow-minded, fashion he came to the conclu­sion that Rome could not be secure until Carthage had dis­appeared from the face of the earth, and immediately afterhis return set forth this view in the senate. Those of thearistocracy whose ideas were more enlarged, and especiallyScipio Nasica, opposed this paltry policy with great earnest­ness; and showed how blind were the fears entertainedregarding a mercantile city whose Phoenician inhabitantswere more and more disused to warlike arts and ideas, and