OCR Output ORONTES. OROPUS. 495 rirer rkicg fa Coele-Svria, then sinking beneathlist earth, again issues forth, and, passing throughlie cbatrict of Apamea to Antiocheia, after np-fnaMag the citj, run* off to the sea towards Se-sraoaa. It received its name from one Orontes,».* baill a bridge over it, having been formerly■•siiai Typcon, from a mythic dragon, who beingn-aca with lightning, fled in quest of a hiding-r-«. and after marking out the course of the•"■nam with its trail, plunged into the earth, from•ae» forthwith issued the fountain.'' He places.a rxhoochare 40 stadia from Seleuceia (xvi.. 7S0y lie elsewbere places the source of ther eer is -re definitely near to Libanus and the 1'ara-^ and the Egyptian wall, by the country ofA;atsea (p. 756). Its sources have been visitedmi described in later times by Mr. Barker in 1835.lie mer " is called by the poople El-'A'si, 'the»»V * from its rtfuial to water the fields withouttie watpolsjon of water-wheels, according to Abul-hta {Tib. Sgr. p. 149), but according to Mr.awfav, ■ from its occasional violence and windings,arsi a course of about 200 miles in a northerlyCk.U*i, passing through Hems and Uamoh, andial.y discharging itself into the sea at Suweidiah*•-• Aatioch." (Journal of the Grog. Soc. vol.si. a. W.) The roost remote of these sources isat a Irw miles north of Baalbek, near a villageM Ummt\ 'at the foot of the range of Anti-aatas an the top of a hillock, near which passesI aaal stream, which has its source in the ad-saa^r maintains, and after flowing for severalWen laraogh the plain, falls into the basin fromsaves springs Use Oroutes." These fountains are■at 13 hoars north of Labath, near the vil-Ip aTay-aW, where is a remarkable monument,Mas*, aad solid, terminating above in a pyramidaa W ts 70 feet high. On the four sides huntingaaa are sculptured in relief, of which the drawinglea the grotesque.'' (Robinson, Journal ofvoL zxir. p. 32.) There can be noa connecting this monument with theI it hnnting park mentioned by Strabo neareaf the Orontes, similar, no doubt, in origin{ cfcarsrter, to those with which the narrativefJEavplam abounds, within the territories of thePbk mussarchs. The rise and course of thisferaat its various tributaries has been detailed by■.CteKiry (Expedition, vol. L pp. 394—398),■ a* auvnie beauty of its lower course between-hn and the aeav has been described in glowing«»» sy Captains Irby and Mangles. (TraveU, mm. m ) [aw.] OSTES ("OpoVrny, Ptol. vi. 2. § 4), a moun-I of Media, which extended in a south-eastthe Ecbatana of Greater MediaI most be considered as an outlyingi atiH greater chain of the Zagros. Itt tailed the JErseearf or Elttend. It is pro-ksaC Use name is preserved in the celebrated_hit of SmrdUtam, now called Roadndiz. InI frawraphy this mountain district is calledwhich is evidently connected with thetea- (at. Martin, Armenia, vol. ii. pp. , % people of anciont Assyria, described) m kefir *° tiir ea*t of Gaugamela (vi. 2G. 7'aers can be no doubt that these are theHiml mji m tribe living, as in ancient times,i &m ajuu'itaiii fiaicvndiz, in Kurdistan^lias cxmuaccted witii the Orootea of Ptolemy (vi. 2. § 4). They derive their name from Eitcend,a pure old Persian root, which was usually Hellen-ized into Orodes or Orontes. (Kawlinson, Jovrn. ofGeog. Soc. x. p. 73.) [V.] ORO'PUS (6 'npwirtJs, rarely 7) *-ty«iro>, Pans. vii.11. § 4; comp. Step!., B. s. v.: Eth. 'tlpwirios, and ac­cording to Steph B. '."Ifia-TT. iiv), a town on the bordersof Attica and Boeotia, and the capital of a district,called after it Oropia (r) 'flpanrfa.) This district isa maritime plain, through which the Asopus flowsinto the sea, and extends for 5 miles along the shore.It is separated from the inland plain of Tanagra bysome hills, which are a continuation of the principalchain of the Diacrian mountains. Oropus was origi­nally a town of Boeotia; and, from its position in themaritime plain of the Asopus, it naturally belongedto that country. (Paus. i. 34. § 1.) It was, however,a frequent subject of dispute between the Atheniansand Boeotians; and the former people obtained pos­session of it long before the Pel upon nesian War. Itcontinued in their hands till B. c. 412, when theBoeotians recovered possession of it. (Time, viii. 60.)A few years afterwards (b. c. 402) the Boeotians, inconsequence of a sedition of the Oropii, removed thetown 7 stadia from the sea (I)iod. xiv. 17.) Duringthe next 60 years the town was alternately in thehands of the Atlienians and Boeotians (comp. Xen.IhlL vii. 4. § 1, &c.). till at length Philip after thebattle of Chaeroncia gave it to the Atlienians. (Paus.i. 34. § 1.) In B-C 318 the Oropians recoveredtheir liberty. (Diod. xviii. 56.) In b. c. 312 Cas-sander obtained possession of the city; but Polemon,the general of Antigonus, soon afterwards expelledthe Macedonian garrison, and handed over the cityto the Boeotians (Diod. xix. 77.) It has been con­cluded from a passage of Dicaearchus (p. 11, ed.Hudson) that Oropus continued to belong to Thebesin the next century; but the expression otxia fchj€uvis corrupt, and no safe conclusion can therefore bedrawn from the passage. Leake proposes to reada-o:><\a Qtj€wv, Wordsworth OKia WijCuv. but C.Miillcr, the latest editor of Dicaearchus, reads ov-voittia Orfrwv. Dicaearchus calls the inhabitantsAthenian Boeotians, an epithet which he also appliesto the inhabitants of PUtaeae. Strabo also describesOropus as a Boeotian town (ix. p. 404); but Livy(xlv. 27), Pausanias (/. c). and Pliny (iv. 7. f. 11)place it in Attica. How long the Oropii inhabitedthe inland city is uncertain. Pausanias expresslysays that Oropus was upon the sea (^irl OdAcktiujv.i. 34. § 1); and the inhabitants had probably returnedto their old town long before his time. Although Oropus was so frequently in the handsof the Athenians, its name is never found among theAthenian demi. Its territory, however, if nut thetown itself, appears to have been made an Atticdemus under the name of Graea {v Tpaia). InHomer Oropus does not occur, but Graea is mentionedamong the Boeotian towns (//. ii. 498); and thisancient name apjiears to have been revived by theAtlienians as the official title of Oropus. Aristotlesaid that Oropus was called Graea in his time (ap.Steph. B.«?. v. ,np»7ro'i); and accordingly we find inan inscription, belonging to this period, the Tpafjs(rpofis) mentioned as a demus of the tribe Pandionis(Ross & Meier, JJie Demen ronAttika, p. 6, seq.) Inthe passage of Thueydides (ii. 23) wapioyrts 5e'flponroi* r^v yfyv UftpcuK^y koAoujuVtj*', V rr-fiiovrai 'Clpwitiot 'A&rivaiuiv tnr^Kooi, ih'ncaay, allthe existing MSS. have UttpoXKijv, but Stephanus,who quotes the passage, reads rpoiWjF. which Poppo