OCR Output B. IV. 377 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. was taken. And not long after, a herald dispatched by theAthenians came again, but quite ignorant of this event, to suefor the dead, which were now delivered by the Boeotians, whono longer laid any stress upon their former reply. In the battle, there perished of the Boeotians very littleunder five hundred ; of the Athenians, few less than a thou­sand, and Hippocrates the general; but of light-armed andbaggage-men a considerable number indeed*. Somewhat later in time than this battle, Demosthenes,who, on his appearance before Sipha, had been disappointedin his hope of having it betrayed to him, having the land-force still on board his fleet, consisting of four hundredheavy-armed Acarnanians and Agraeans and Athenians, madea descent on Sicyonia. But before all his vessels could landtheir men, the Sicyonians had marched down to make headagainst them. They defeated those that were landed, andchased them again on board. Some they killed, and somethey took alive ; and after erecting their trophy, they de­livered up the dead by truce. • The Athenians received in truth a terrible blow on this occasion. TheBoeotians, a people heavy and stupid to a proverb, continued ever after theterror of the Athenians, the politest and most enlightened people uponearth. Nay, thut gross and stupid people had, this day, well nigh com-pleated the destruction of all that was pre-eminently wise and good at thistime upon earth ; and done an irreparable mischief to sound reason andgood sense for ever after. When the two troops of horse, after fetching acompass round the hill, had compleated the rout of the Athenians, whowere now flying away with the utmost speed, the divine Socrates was leftalmost alone, facing the enemy, and fighting and retreating like a lion over­powered. Alcibiades,. who served in the cavalry, was making off on horse­back ; but, seeing Socrates in such imminent danger, he rode up to hini,covered his retreat, and brought him off safe. He thus repaid him thegreat obligation he had formerly received frnm him at Potidaa. Straborelates further (Gcog. I. 9.) that Xenopiion also the same day owed hislife to Socrates. Having fallen from his horse, and being trampled amongthe crowd, Socrates took him upon his shoulders, and carried him to aplace of safety. Upon the whole, brutal strength and mere bodily meritwere never so near getting a total conquest over all the light and under­standing which human nature hath to boast of, that did not come directlydown from heaven.