OCR Output 504 OSTIAEI. OTHRYS. remains of the port of Claudius are less distinct; theline of the moles which bounded it may, however, betraced, though they are altogether buried in sand;the tower of the lighthouse or Pharos was still visiblein the 15th century, when the ruins were visitedand described by Pope Tins II., but has now entirelydisappeared. A considerable part of t he ancient wallswith which the city was fortitied by Constantine isstill visible; they were strengthened with towers,andclosely resemble in their stylo uf construction theolder portions of those of Home. Between the site of Ostia and that of Portus isthe inland, formed by the two branches of the Tiber,which is about 3 miles in length by 2 in breadth.It is commonly known as the Inscla Sacra, anappellation first given to it by Procopius, who de­scribes it in detail (/_*. 6-'. i. 26). The origin of theepithet is unknown, but it appears to have been inChi istian times regarded as consecrated, having been,according to Anastashis, bestowed by Constantineupon the church. It is described in exaggeratedterms by a writer of the 5th century (Aethicus.Cosmogr, \>. 716, ed. Oronov.) for its beauty andfertility, whence lie says it was termed "LibanusAlmae Veneris:" but in spring it is still covered withfine pastures abounding with beautiful flowers. Theformation of this island obviously dates only from theconstruction of the right arm of the Tiber, nowknown as // Fiumicino, which, as already shown, isprobably wholly artificial. No writer before the timeof the Roman Empire alludes to more than one mouthof the river. The topography of Ostia and Tortus, anil 1 lievicissitudes and changes which the two ports at themonth of the Tiber have undergone, are fully traced,and the existing ruins described in detail, by Nibby( Dtntomidi Noma, vol. ii. p. 42fi—474,002—660);as well as by Preller, in the Berickteder SiichsischenGetellschq/l for the year 1849 (pp. 5—38). Thepreceding plan is copied from one given bv the latterwriter.' [E*. H. B.] OSTIAEI, OSTIDAMNII. Stephanus (s. v.'nTTiWey) has preserved a notice of a Gallic peoplewhom he descrbes ik as a nation on the westernOcean, whom Artemidorus names Cossini, and Py­theas names Ostiaei," Strabo (p. 63) observes ofPytheas that what he says of the Ostiaei and theparts beyond the Rhine as far as Scvthia, is allfalse. Whether false or true, we learn from Strabothat Pytheas spoke of the Ostiaei of Gallia; and wecan safely infer that Pytheas placed them on thewest coast of Gallia opposite to Britain. A passageof Strabo has been cited under Osismii, in which itis stated of the Osismii that Pytheas named themTimii. Ukert (Gallien, p 336) purp-tse* to changeovs Ttfilovs in this passage of Strabo into o6sTlcTTtatovs, The proposal is reasonable. The textof Strabo is probably corrupt here. These Ootiaeiof Pytheas can be no other than the Osismii. Eratosthenes mentioned a people of Gallia namedOstidamnii on the west coast of Gallia. He alsos[>okc (Strab. p. G4) of the promontory of the Os-tidamnii which i* called Calbium. It is clear thathe is speaking of the peninsula uf Brt-tnyne. TheOstiiioi, Ostidamnii, OMsmii are evidently the samepeopl,. [G.L.] OSTIPPO, a free city of Hispania Baetica, inthe jurisdiction of Astigi (Plin. iii. 1. s. 3), and onthe road from Hispalis to Cordoba. (/tin. Ant.p. 411.) It has not been satisfactorily identified,but, according to Ukert (vol. ii. pt. I. p. 360), it must probably bo sought in the neiehryyir&scA •!the modern Ecija. [T, H D.] OSTKA (vO(TTpo: Eth. Ostranns). i vmdUmbria, in the district once occupied by uV Sommmentioned both by Pliny and Pte.lemT (Firn. in.14. s. 10; Ptol. iii. 1. § 51). but of Terr onwtusite. [Umbria]. [LH.B.1 OSTRACl'NA COjrpaKi'rrj, Ptol. iv. 5. j 12.Plin. v. 12. s. 14; Ostracena /t Anton, p. 15$)was a military station in Lower A^irypt. e^tDelta proper, and situated on the road fr.-m Bsiacorura to Pelusium. From the route of Vesp«>bion his return from Ak'xandreia to Piksiiw IA.D. 09, as described by Ja-ephus (B. J*L if. 11§ 5), Ostracina appears to have been or« diymarch from the temple of Jupiter Casws in &Arabian hills, and about the same distance bvm tllake Serbonis. It was destitute of weils. and siplied with water brought by a canal from 'JDelta. (Comp. Martian. Capella. c. 6. [W. B II OSTRACI'XA, a mountain on the rvl mMantineia Methydrium. [Manttneia. p. 2511 OSTUDIZUS (also written Ostidizu.> and \Mdizus, Itin. Ant. pp. 137, 230, 322; and in Hiiviii. p. 1346, Ustudizum), a town in Timct.Mlroad from Hadrianople to Constantinople. [T.HJ OS'lTR. a town of Spain, not mentixceJ alancient writer, but which appears upcm cJThere is still a place called Oxtvr near AkmValencia, which has some Roman ruins. xvA *labounds with acorns,—the figure of which si**pears ufton the coins. (Florez, Afed. ii p.!iii. p. 113; Sestini, p. 179; Mim.net, i. p. 47,i. p. 95, op. Ukert, vol.ii. pt. 1. p. 416.) fT-H, OTA IM XI (T.ToSTji'ot. Ptol. ii. 3. § 10). t Wtribe on the E. coast "f Britannia Harharj.ilprovince of Valentia, lying S. of the H»-e^tuary, or Firth of Forth, down to the riw 1ami therefore inhabiting the counties of U<uUi*\Bencick, Roxburgh, and the greater part «t Siumberland. Their chief cities were CanaBremeniuin. [T. H. £ OTE'XE ('nrTjn?, Ptol. v. 13. § 9, wasreading M«t?ji<tj is incorrect), a canton of" Amseparated from Atropatene bv the river Aj(Plin. vi. 16 ) St. Martin (Mem. no- ?Ar*vol. i. p. 86) identities it with the province ito the native geographers by the name utwhat is now called Kara -bi'tyh, to the X. «Araxea. [E. B. OTESIA, a town of Cispadane Gaul, kw*from the mention of the Otesini by Piiny 0s. 20) among the municipal towns of th» IRegion. But an inscription given by C.amakes mention of the "Respublica Otesuiwand it is probable that Airtvcria and 'Oim*"*-are found in Phlegon among the towns vf tiipart of Italy, are only corruptions of the anwi(Phlegon. Macrob. 1; Cluver. ItaL \t. 2*i'site is wholly uncertain. £E- H- OTHRYS (v 'O0pvs),a lofty chain of ir-awinch shuts in the plain of TTiessa.lv fn<n ismIt brandies otf from Mount Tympiinoioa, tinit in the range of Pindtis, and runs DMcast through Phthiotis to the sea c>.*st. t_t *iJrating the waters which flow into the IV" athose of the Spercheiua. (Strab. ix. pp. 453comp. Herod, vii. 129; Plin. iv. 8- a. 15.)northern side, many offshoots extend into t!.iof Pharsalus. It is lofty and cxtverwi w:'.iiwhence the poets give it the epithet cf "I