OCR Output NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER, IxJx world. The success of such a trade is one of thestrongest' instances of sacerdotal art and popularcredulity. [56] The right reverend author of the Divine-Legation of Moses asligns a very curious reason forthe omitfion, and most ingeniously retorts it on theunbelievers. [57] See Le Clerc (Prolegomena ad Hist. Ec-clesiast. c. 1. sect. 8.)- His authority seems to carrythe greater weight, as he has written a learned andjudicious commentary on the books of the OldTestament. [jSj Joseph. Antiquiut. 1. xili. c. 10. Accord­ing to the most natural interpretation of his words,the Saducees admitted only the Pentateuch; but ithas pleased some modern critics to add the prophetsto their c;eed, and to suppose, that they contentedthemselves with rejecting the traditions of thePharisees.; Dr. Jortin has argued that point in hisRemarks on Ecclesiastical History, vol. ii. p. 103. [,-9] This expectation was countenanced by thetwenty-fourth chapter of Sr. Matthew, and by thefirst epistle of St. Paul to the Thessalonians. Eras­mus removes the difficulty by the help of alle­gory and metaphor; and the learned Grotius venrtures to insinuate, that, for wife purposes, the piousdeception was permitted to take place. [60] See Burnct's Sacred Theory, part iii. c. 5.T his tradition may be traced as high as the authorof the Epistle of Barnabas, who wrote in the firstcentury, and who seems to have been half a Jew. [61 ] The primitive church of Antioch, computedalmost 6oco years from the creation of the worldto the birth of Christ. Africanus, Lactantius, andthe Greek church, have reduced that number to'55:0, and Euscbius has contented himself with5200 years. These calculations were formed onthe Septuagint, which was universally receivedduring the six first centuries. The authority ofthe Vulgate and of the Hebrew text has deter­mined the moderns, Protestants as well as Catho­lics, to prefer a period of about 4000 years; though,in the study of profane antiquity, they often findthemselves streightened by those narrow limits. [61] Most of these pictures were borrowed froma misinterpretation of Isaiah,. Daniel, and the Apocalypse. One of the grossest images may be foundin Irentus (I. v. p. 4.55.), the disciple of Papias,who had seen the apostle St. John. [63] See the second dialogue os Justin withTryphon, and the seventh book of Lactantius. Itis unnecessary to allege all the intermediate fathers,as the fact is not disputed. [64] Dupin, Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique, torn. i.p. 223. torn. ii. p. 36s1. and Mosheim, p. 720;though the latter of these learned divines is notaltogether candid oh this occasion. [6;] In the council of Laodicea (about the year360.) the Apocalypse was tacitly excluded from thesacred canon by the same churches of Asia towhich it is addressed ; and we may learn from thecomplaint of Sulpicius Scverus, that their sentencehad been ratified by the greater number of Chri­stians of his time. From what causes then is theApocalypse at present so generally received by theGreek, the Roman, and the Protestant churches IThe following ones may be assigned. 1. TheGreeks were subdued by the authority of an im­postor, who, in the sixth century, assumed thecharacter of Dionysius the Areopagite. 2. Ajust apprehension, that the grammarians mightbecome more important than the theologians,engaged the council of Trent to fix the seal oftheir infallibility on all the books of Scripture,contained in the Latin Vulgate, in the numberof which the Apocalypse was fortunately included.(Fra Paolo, llloria del Concilio Tridentino, 1. ii.)3. The advantage of turning those mysterious pro­phecies against the See of Rome, inspired the Pro­testants with uncommon veneration for so usefulan ally. See the ingenious and elegant discoursesof the present biihop of Litchfield on that un­promising subject. [66] Lactantius (Institut. Divin,. vii.. if, &c.^relates the dismal tale of futurity with great spiritand eloquence. ..... -ii .• [6/] On this subject every reader os taste willbe entertained with the third part ofBurnet's SacredTheory. He blends philosophy, scripture, and tra­dition, into one magnificent system; in the descrip­tion of which, he displays a strength of fancy notinferior to that of Milton himself. . . [63] And.