OCR Output 480 tlTUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. 'B CHAP. LIH. In Continuation. UT it may be said, that necessity obliges us to quita city in ruins, and reduced to ashes, and to take re­fuge in Veii, where we shall find all conveaiencies,without harassing "the poor people with rebuildingRome. Were I not to tell you this is a vain pretext,a mere allegation, I am certain, you must see it: Forsome of you, gentlemen, must remember, that beforethe arrival of the Gauls, when all the buildings, pub­lic and private, were whole -and entire, and Rome ir'absolute safety, this same affair of removing to Veiiwas in agitation. But to show you, tribunes, in whatdifferent points of view this matter appears to you and.to me. You think, though great objections might havebeen made at that time, that now there can be none.On the contrary, it is my opinion, nor need you besurprised till you have heard me out, although wemight have left the city before it had suffered from therude touches of the Gauls, that in honour we cannotleave these ruins now. For, at that time, our victoryfurnished us with some pretence for removing to a citywe had just conquered, as it was cause of boasting to-ourselves and posterity; but to remove thither now,would be for us mean and shameful in the extreme,but to the Gauls it would do singular credit. For itwould by no means appear, that we had left our coun­try when victorious, but that we had lost it when con­quered. To the defeat at Allia, the capture of Rome,and the blockade of the Capitol, may be justly ascrib­ed the sad alternative of abandoning our tutelary gods,of flying and banishing ourselves from a place \v<icould tot defend. Have the Gauls been able to de­molish Rome, and shall it be thought that the Romans,are not able to rebuild it! What then remains, but thatyou tamely suffer these very Gauls, whose numbers areincredible, to-return if they please, with a new army,and take possession of this city, which .they have takenami you abandoned?'But if the Gauls have no such intention, what if the