OCR Output SAMNIUM. 891 SAMNIUM. H'r'rmtnm, is little if at all inferior to it in magni-t:Jr ud volume of waters. The Calor itself rises□ the lofty group of mountains between & Angelaoi LmJbtmH and Eboli. This group, which is•..D-timts designated as Monte Irpino, and is thet»[ elevated in this part of the Apennines, sendsdoes its waters to the N. in the Calor and its tribn-tiiy the Sabatus; while on the E. it gives rise toK* Aufidio, which flows into the Adriatic sea, afterturning more than two-thirds of the breadth ofIiilv; sad on the S. the Silarus flows bj a mnchliwvr coarse into the Gulf of Salerno. From this>nt, which forms a kind of knot in the main chainc ibe Apennines, the mountains sweep round in arttr.i-iitle to the NE. and N. till they reach the bead«attr* of the Tamarus, and adjoin the mountainsmadr described in the neighbourhood of Bojanou>J Campabaao. In this part of its course theru.n chain sends down the streams of the Ujita and^9 .Vueono on the W. to swell the waters of the'.li-nr, while on the E. it gives rise to the Cerbalusr Crrmro, a stream flowing into the Adriatic. *. From the Monte Irpino towards the E. theihl- at the upper valley of the AuhMus was□rlajVi in Samnium, though tlie lower part of itsam lar through Apulia. The exact limit cannot- "iW,—the confine* of the Hirpini towards Apuliaf. ti« one tide, and Lucania on the other, being,i' tie boundaries of Sainnium in general, almost>U'jv arbitrary, and not marked by any naturalBit. It may be considered, indeed, that in general .Tmntain country belonged to Samnium, and theww tails or hills to Apulia; but it is evident that■--a s distinction is itself often arbitrary and un-mun. In like manner, the rugged mountain chaintieh extends along the right bank of the Aufidus.r#ir* to hare been included in Samnium; but the * of demarcation between this and Lucania cannot'aeterrained with accuracy. On the other hand, * cetached volcanic mass of Muss Vultur, with * aijaeent city of Venusia, was certainly not con­tend to belong to Samnium. II. History. AC ancient writers agree in representing the■J-tites as a people of Sabine origin, and not thec ut occupants of the country they inhabited when"firrt appear in history, but as having migratedat a corn|iaratively late period. (V'arr. L.L.i »: Appian, Scwmit.. Fr. 4, 5; Strab. v. p. 250;■L < r. Samnites, p. 326; A. Gell. xi. 1.) Thisf'cta of their origin is strongly confirmed by thef>'*nce of their name; the Greek form of which,zi^lrai. evidently contains the same root as that'Sahiai (Sap-nitae or Saf-nitMe. and Sno-ini or*f-ai); and there is reason to believe that they-TivJtes u.-*d a name still more closely identical. 'be Oscan form "Safinim," found on some of» i-oarii struck by the Italian allies during therail War, cannot refer to the Sabines usually so''iti. as that people was long before incorporatedthe Krtmans. and is, in all probability, the Oscanmm at the Samnites. (Mommsen, Unter Hal.•winr, p. 293; Fried lander, Oikucke Minvm, • o.) The adjective form Sabellus was also used■! SmAU by the Komans as applied to the Sa--»» and the Samnites. [Sabini.] It* Samnite emigration was, according to Strabo'250), one of those sent forth in pursuance ofor what was called a " ver sacrum." It was, iual, under the special protection of Mars, and was supposed to have been guided by a bull. (Strab.L c.) It is probable from this statement that theemigrants could not have been numerous, and thatthey established themselves in Samnium rather asconquerors than settlers. The previously existingpopulation was apparently Oscan. Strabo tells usthat they established themselves in the land of theOscans (f. c); and this explains the circumstancethat throughout the Samnite territory the languagospoken was Oscan. (Liv. x. 20.) But the Oscansthemselves were undoubtedly a cognate tribe withthe Sabines [Italia]; and whatever may havebeen the circumstances of the conquest (concerningwhich we have no information), it seems certainthat at an early period both branches of the popu­lation had completely coalesced into one peopleunder the name of the Samnites. The period at which the first emigration of theSamnites took place is wholly unknown; but it isprobable that they bad not been long in possessionof their mountainous and inland abodes before theybegan to feel the necessity of extending their do­minion over the more fertile regions that surroundedthem. Their first movements for this purpose wereprobably those by which tbey occupied the hilly butfertile tract of the Frentani on the shores of theAdriatic, and the land of the Hirpini on the S.Both these nations are generally admitted to be ofSamnite origin. The Frentani, indeed, were some­times reckoned to belong to tho Samnite nation,though they appear to hare had no political unionwith them [Fkkstani]: the Hirpini, on the con­trary, were generally regarded as one of the compo­nent parts of the Samnite nation; but they appear tohave been originally a separate colony, and the storytold by Strabo and others of their deriving theirname from the wolf that had been their leader, evi­dently points to their having been the result of aseparate and subsequent migration. (Strab. v. p.250; Senr. ad Aen. xi. 785.) The period of thisis, however, as uncertain as that of the first settle­ment of the other Samnites: it is not till they beganto spread themselves still further both towards theS. and W., and press npon their neighbours in Lu­cania and Campania, that the light of history beginsto dawn npon their movements. Even then theirchronology is not clearly fixed; but the conquestand occupation of Campania may be placed fromabout B. c. 440 to b. c. 420, and was certainlycompleted by tho last of these dates. [Campania.]That of Lucania must probably be placed somewhatlater; but whatever were the causes which were atthis time urging the movements of the Sabelliantribes towards the S., they seem to havo continuedsteadily in operation; and within less than half acentury (b. c. 410—360) the Samnites spreadthemselves throtfgh the whole of Lucania, andalmost to the southern extremity of Italy. [Lu­cania.] The subsequent fortunes of these con­quering races, and their contests with the citiesof Magna Graecia, do not belong to our presentsubject, for the Lucanians seem to have early brokenoff all political connection with their parent nation,the Samnites, just as the latter had done with theirSabine ancestors. This laxity in their political ties,and want of a common bond of union, seems to havebeen in great measure characteristic of the Sabellianraces, and was one of the causes which undoubtedlypaved the way for their final subjection nnder theRoman yoke. But the Samnites seem to hare re­tained possesskn, down to a much later period, of