OCR Output 422 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book It. tioch, but had left one of his companions, whose name wasNoarus, to take care of the public affairs; which Noarus wasof kin to king Sohemus *. Now there came certain men, se­venty in number, out of Batanea, who were the most considera­ble for their families and prudence of the rest of the people ;these desired to have an army put into their hands, that if anytumult should happen, they might have about them a guardsufficient to restrain such as might rise up against them. ThisNoarus sent out some of the king's armed men by night, andslew all those [seventy] men; which bold action he ventured up­on without the consent of Agrippa, and was such a lover of mo­ney, that he chose to be so wicked to his own countrymen, tho'he brought ruin on the kingdom thereby: and thus cruelly didhe treat that nation, and this contrary to the laws also, untilAgrippa was informed of it, who did not indeed dare to puthim to death, out of regard to Sohemus, but still he put an endto his procuratorship immediately. But as to the seditious,they took the citadel which was called Cypros, and was aboveJericho, and cut the throats of the garrison, and utterly demo­lished the fortifications; this was about the same time that themultitude 'of the jews that were at Macherus persuaded theRomans who were in garrison to leave the place, and deliver itup to them. These Romans being in great fear, lest the placeshould be taken by force, made an agreement with them to de­part upon certain conditions; and when they had obtained thesecurity they desired, they delivered up the citadel, into whichthe people of Macherus put a garrison fer their own security,and held it in their own power. 7. But for Alexandria, the sedition of the people of the placeagainst the Jews was perpetual, and this from that very timewhen Alexander [the Great], upon unding the readiness of theJews in assisting him against the Egyptians, and as a reward forsuch their assistance, gave them equal privileges in this citywith the Grecians themselves. Which honourary reward con­tinued among them under his successors, who also set apart forthem a particular place, that they might live without beingpolluted [by the Gentiles], and were thereby not so much in­termixed with foreigners as before: they also gave them thisfarther privilege, that they should be called Macedonians. Nay,when the Romans got possession of Egypt, neither the first Cae­sar, nor any one that came after him, thought of diminishing the honours * Of this Eohemus we have mention made by Tacitus. We also learn from Dio,that his father was king of the Arabians of Iturea, [which Iturea is mentioned bySt Luke, iii. i.], both whose testimonies are quoted here by Dr Hudson. SecNoldius, No. 371.