OCR Output 394 ANTIO.UITIES or THE JEWS. Book XVI. "turned his speech to the admonition of his sons; and exhorted"those that lived at court, and the multitude, to concord: and"informed them, that his sons were to resign after him; Anti-"pater first, and then Alexander and Aristobulus, the sons of"Mariamne; but he desired that at present they should all have"regard to himself, and esteem him king and lord of all, since"he was not yet hindered by old age, but was in that period ot"life when he must be the most skilful in governing; and that"he was not deficient in other arts of management that might"enable him to govern the kingdom well, and to rule over his"children also. He farther told the rulers under him, and the"soldiery, that in case they would look upon him alone, their"life would be led in a peaceable manner, and they would make"one another happy." And when he had said this, he dismissedthe assembly. Which speech was acceptable to the greatestpart of the audience, but not so to them all, for the contentionamong his sons, and the hopes he had given them, occasionedthoughts and desires of innovations among them. CHAP. V. How Herod celebrated the games that were to return every Jifthyear, upon the building of Ccesarea , - and hem he built andadorned many other places after a magnificent manner; and didmany other actions gloriously. § 1. ABOUT this time it was that Caesarea Sebaste, which hehad built, was finished. The entire building being accomplish­ed in the tenth year, the solemnity of it fell into the twenty-eight year of Herod's reign, and into the hundred and ninety-second olympiad: There was accordingly a great festival, andmost sumptuous preparations made presently, in order to itsdedication, for he had appointed a contention in music, andgames to be performed naked: He had also gotten ready agreat number of those that fight single combats, and of beastslor the like purpose: horse races also, and the most chargeableof such sports and shows as used to be exhibited at Rome, andin other places. He consecrated this combat to Caesar, and or­dered it to be celebrated every fifth year. He also sent all sortsof ornaments for it out of his own furniture, that it might wantnothing to make it decent: nay Julia, Caesar's wife, sent a greatpart of her most valuable furniture [from Rome,] insomuchthat he had no want of any thing: The sum of them all .was esti­mated at five hundred talents. Now when a great multitude wascome to that city, to see the shows, as well as the ambassadorswhom other people sent, on account of the benefits they had re­