OCR Output 1] 1G TEAKUK TEANUM. same name, was a city of Apulia, situated on t lie rightbank of l lie river Frento (forfore), about 12 milesfrom its mouth. If ap[>ears to have been one of themost considerable cities of Apulia before its conquestby the Romans; but its name is first mentioned init. c. 318, when, in conjunction with Canusium, itsubmitted to the Roman consuls M. Foslius Flacci-natorand L Plautius Venno. (Liv. ix. 20.) It isa>;ain noticed during the Second Punic War, when itwai selected by the dictator M. Junius Pera as theplace of his winter-quarters in Apulia. (Id. xxiii.24.) Cicero incidentally notices it as a municipaltown, at the distance of 18 miles from Larinum(Cie. pro ClueiU. 9), and its name is found in allthe geographers among the municipal towns of Apu­lia. ' (Strab. vi p. 285; Mel. ii. 4. § G; Plin. iii.II. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 72.) Its municipal rankis continued also by an inscription, as well as by theLil«er Coloniarum, and it is clear that it never at­tained the rank of a colony. (Oiell. Itiscr. 140;Lib. Col. p. 210.) Its ruins still exist at a placecalled Civitate, near the remains of a Roman bridge(now called the Ponte di Civitate), over the Kortore,by which the ancient road from Larinum to Luceriacrossed tliat river. The distance from the site ofLarinum agrees with that stated by Cicero of 18miles (the Tabula erroneously gives only 12), andthe discovery of inscriptions on the spot leaves nodoubt of the identification. Considerable remains ofthe walls are still extant, as well aa fragments ofoilier buildings. From these, as well as from an in­scription in winch we find mention of the"Ordosplendidissimus Civitatis Theanensium," it seemsprobable that it continued to be a flourishing townunder the Roman Empire. The period of its finaldecay is uncertain, but it retained its episcopal seedown to modern times, (Moisten. Not. ad Cluver,p. 279; HomanellijVol. ii. p. 291 ; Mommsen, Inscr.A A', p. 271.) Strabo speaks of Teanum as situated at somedistance inland from a lake, the name of which hedoes not mention, Imt which is clearly the LacusI'antanus uf Pliny, now called the Lugo di Lesitia.From an inscription found on its banks it appearsthat this was comprised within the territory of Tea-nnmt which thus extended down to the sea (Roma-nelli, c), though about 12 miles distant from thecoast. Several Italian topographers have assumed theexistence of a city in Apulia of the name of Teate,distinct from Teanum (Giovenazzi, Sito di Aveja,p. 13; Roinanelli, vol. iL p. 2SG); but there seemsno dimbt that tlie two names are only different formsof the same, and that the Teates Apuli of Livy(ix. 20) are in reality the people of Teanum. It istrue that that, writer mentions them as if they weredistinct from the Teanenses whom he had mentionedjust before; but it is probable that this arises merelyfrom his having followed different annalists, and thatboth statements refer in fact to the same people, andare a repetition of the same occurrence. (Mommsen,f'nier-ftid. Dvikkt. p. 301.) In like manner theTeate mentioned in the Liber Coloniarum (p. 261)is evidently the same place culled in an earlier partof the same document (p. 210) Teanum. [K. H. Ii.] TE.VXUM (Tiavov. Eth. Teanensis: Tenno),sometimes called for distinction's sake TeanumSiiucinum (Liv. xxii. 57; Cic. ad Alt. viii. 11;Plin. i i. 5. s. 9; Tiavov S(5nv?iw, Strab. v. p.237). an important city of Campania, situated inthe interior of that province, on the Via Latina, i between Cales and Caainnm. (Stmb. t. p, 2T37.) ] It wxs therefore the frontier city of Caatpatia, aI that term was understood under the Riaaspirc; but originally Teanum was not rfck«-« iCampantan city at all, but was the capital 4 tbsmall independent 1ribe of the Sidirini. [Siwcnt]It was indeed the only place of imp^irx* iku ifcnpossessed, so that Livy in more than ow iatawalludes to it, where he is speuking uf tint w--.*.merely as " their city,** without mentificic^ \:i ra=»(Liv. viii. 2, 17). Hence its hisiorr belTt ti*Roman conquest is identical with that of ti.# pp^e,which will be found in the article SiPimn. Tafirst mention of Teanum after the Rot-io crc;W-.is in b.c. 21fi, immediately after tbe ca"> iCannae, when Marcel 1 us sent forward a he---Rome thither, evidently with the vi*w d ksqthe line of the Via Latina. (Liv. iiii. 57.) A Hyears later, B.C. 211. it was selected us pint*confinement for a part of the senators ofwhile they were awaiting their sentence fnsa fcaw;but the consul Fulvius, contrary to the opiwe 4' -colleague App. Claudius, caused then all V- bs irto death without waiting for the decree of the(Liv. xxvi. 15.) From this time Teacasi Skc»an ordinary municipal town : it is inciiienLiET ce-tioned as such on several occasions, and its I on the Via Latina doubtless contribmed to itsperity. A cross outrage offered to fine of :tscipal magistrates by the Roman consul, n sett*in one of the orations of C. Gracvhas (vp. A. Gf-x. 3), and we learn from Cicero that it *a> J btime a flourishing and populous town. (Ck.iVL*Agr. ii. 31, 35, ad. Att. viii. 11, d.) Li ear-repeatedly occurs in the Sxial War asi tiw >"-test between Sulla and Marias (Appian, B. C i C85); and at a later peri d it was the patthe commanders of the legions in Italy beJdik -of congress, with a view to bring about a wsation between Oct avian and L. Antonias (A.v.S'-It was one of the cities whose territory ifce tr'rtTRullus proposed by his law to divide anxcg tbrman people (Cic. c.); but this mi*Mfta» «■averted. It subsequently, however. received »cjUunder Augustus {Lib. Col. p. 23is; Plin. ni. 5. * i.and seems to have retained its colonial rani at5* ■Empire. (Mommsen, hiscr. R. X. 39s9, ■'Strabo tells us that it was the Urge>: x «::populous town on the Via Latina, and ti« =•considerable of the inland cities of Campos* aOCapua. (Strab. v. pp. 237, ) bcn^B *-existing remains confirm this account of js> sr- -tance, but we hear little more of i: under :> uEmpire. The Itineraries place it 16 nuies Ctffc'-*"sinum, and 18 from Venafrnm: a cnj&s r»J -"- I struck off from Teanum t-> Allit'ae, Teleaia. ar-" i*-neventum. {/tin. Ant pp. 121. 304; T<& F«*1 j Another branch also CMnmu&icated witfl Sua* I and Mioturnae. I Teanum was not more than 5 nr.les fho Ci5ff*'the point where the territories of the tvo cia■ joined was marked by two shrines or ardx^av ■'1 Fortune, mentioned by Strabo, under tie itOf *'al 5i)o Tvxai (v. p. 240). Teanum appears to have declined asrx ^* middle ages, and the modern city nf rrtsst* "»:1 place, with only about 4000 ichabitacu, those*I taining its episcopal see. Many ruios of tir *c ■=* city are visible, though none nf them of r^-I interest. They are situated below the re-ve.-a which stands on a hill, and considerably now