OCR Output PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 243 may thrill their readers with a spirited detail of Roman triumphs; but it re­quired the genius of Tacitus to fathom the depths of Roman degeneracy andcorruption, and bring forth instruction and even delight from the shortlivedand ill-starred reigns of Galba, Otho and Vitellius. Tacitus himself felt deeplythe degradation of his country, and the consequent inferiority of his subject tothe more brilliant and imposing events of Rome's earlier history. " No manwill think of comparing these Annals," he says (Ann. 4, 32), and the sameremarks are applicable for the most part to the subject-matter of the Histories—" No man will think of comparing these Annals with the historians of the oldrepublic. Those writers had for their subject wars of the greatest magnitude,cities taken by storm, kings overthrown and led into captivity; and whenfrom those scenes of splendor, they turned their attention to domestic occur­rences, they still had an ample field before them; they had dissensions be­tween the consuls and the tribunes; they had agrarian laws, the price of corn,and the plebeian and patrician orders inflamed with mutual animosity.Those were objects that filled the imagination of the reader and gave freescope to the genius of the writer. The work in which I am engaged, lies in anarrow compass; the labor is great, and glory there is none. A long andsettled calm, scarce lifted to a tempest; wars no soonar begun than ended; agloomy scene at home, and a prince without ambition or even a wish to en­large the boundaries of the empire: these are the scanty materials that liebefore me. And yet materials like these are not to be undervalued; thoughslight in appearance they still merit attention, since they are often the secretspring of the most important events." Such is the modest estimate which Tacitus put upon his subject and histreatment of it. Posterity has judged more favorably of both. Lord Mon-boddo,* the severest of all the critics on his style, has well said: " His subject,I think, is grand and noble. It is the history of the fall of a great^people,greater than any that ever existed in arms and government, and in the extentand duration of their empire. Other nations may have been more glorious intheir'rise or in their prosperity, but none was ever so great in its fall; andthe period of Tacitus's history affords more extraordinary examples of virtuesand vices, sometimes mixed in the same man, than are to be found anywhereelse in the history of mankind. For the Romans are great in their vices aswell as their virtues, and in both almost exceed humanity. In treating thissubject, Tacitus never falls below the dignity of it, nor is it, I think, withoutreason, that he speaks himself of the gravity of his work. He shows him­self everywhere a lover of virtue anu of virtuous men, and expresses in thestrongest terms his detestation of cruelty and every kind of vice. He speakswith admiration of philosophy and its teachers, knowing that it was philoso­phy that had produced those extraordinary characters which he celebrates,such as that of Thrasea Partus and Helvidius Priscus." "In reading his Ann lis and Histories,! where we seethe baffled and in­effectual efforts by which individuals worthy of a better age strive to bear upagainst the cruelty of tyrants and the general corruption of morals, and at » Vid. citation in the Life of Tacitus, p. 9. t This paragraph is translated from Boetticher's Prolegomena to his LexiconFaciteum.