OCR Output 250 ROMAN EMPIRE. southern basis presents a front of a thousand miles tothe Indian ocean. The entire surface of the peninsulaexceeds in a fourfold proportion that of Germany orFrance; but the far greater part has been justly stigma-^ .f tized with the epithets of the stony and the sandy.andcii- Even the wilds of Tartary are decked by thehand of nature with lofty trees and luxuriantherbage; and the lonesome traveller derives a sort ofcomfort and society from the presence of a vegetablelife. But in the dreary waste of Arabia, a boundlesslevel of sand is intersected by sharp and naked moun足tains, and the face of the desert, without shade or shelter,is scorched by the direct and intense rays of a tropicalsun. Instead of refreshing breezes, the winds, particu足larly from the south-west, diffuse a noxious and evendeadly vapour; the hillocks of sand, which they alter足nately raise and scatter, are compared to the billows ofthe ocean, and whole caravans, whole armies, have beenlost and buried in the whirlwind. The common bene足fits of water are an object of desire and contest; andsuch is the scarcity of wood, that some art is requisiteto preserve and propagate the element of fire. Arabiais destitute of navigable rivers, which fertilize the soil,and convey its produce to the adjacent regions: thetorrents that fall from the hills are imbibed by the thirstyearth: the rare and hardy plants, the tamarind or theacacia, that strike their roots into the clefts of the rocks,are nourished by the dews of the night; a scanty supplyof rain is collected in cisterns and aqueducts; the wellsand springs are the secret treasure of the desert; andthe pilgrim of Mecca," after many a dry and sultryinarch, is disgusted by the taste of the waters, whichhave rolled over a bed of sulphur or salt. Such is thegeneral and genuine picture of the climate of Arabia.The experience of evil enhances the value of any local a In the thirty days or stations, between Cairo and Mecca, there are fifteen de-etitute of good water. See the route of the Hadjees, in Shaw's Travels, p. 477.