OCR Output II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 173 themselves under the protection of the Acarnanians, and bothtogether implored the succour of the Athenians, who sentthirty ships to their assistance under the command of Phor-mio. Upon Phormio's arrival they take Argos by storm,make all the Ambraciots slaves, and then both the Amphilo-chians and Acarnanians settle themselves together in the city.To these incidents was first owing the league offensive anddefensive between the Athenians and Acarnanians. Thechief cause of the inveteracy which the Ambraciots bore tothe Argives, was their having made them in this mannerslaves ; and which afterwards impelled them, in the confusionof this war, to form this invasion with the junction of theChaonians and some other neighbouring Barbarians. Ad­vancing up to Argos, they were entire masters of the wholeterritory, but in vain endeavoured to take the town by as­sault ; upon which they again returned home and dispersedto their respective nations.—Such were the transactions ofthe summer. On the first approach of winter, the Athenians sent outtwenty ships to cruize on the coasts of Peloponnesus, underthe command of Phormio ; who, fixing his station beforeNaupactus, kept so strict a guard, that nothing durst pass innor out from Corinth and the gulf of Crissa.—Six other shipsthey send to Caria and Lycia, under the command of Mele-sander, to levy contributions there, and to stop the excursionsof the Peloponnesian privateers, harbouring in those parts,from molesting the course of their trading vessels from Pha-celis, Phoenicia, and the adjacent continent. MeUsander,with the Athenian and confederate force he had on board hisships, landed in Lycia, and was defeated in the first battle, inwhich he lost part of his army and his own-life. The same winter, the Potidaeans, as they were no longerable to hold out the siege ; and as, besides, the irruptions ofthe Peloponnesians into Attica had not induced the Atheniansto raise it; their provisions being quite spent; and amongstother calamities to which their extremities had reduced them, Vol. I. 2 N