OCR Output 292 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. tented and the insurgents in Italy ; except that a foreign corpsarmed and organized in the Roman fashion was created inAsia, the flower of which consisted of Roman and Italianrefugees. Forces like those of Mithradates had not beenseen in Asia since the Persian wars. The statements that,leaving out of account the Armenian auxiliary army, he tookthe field with 250,000 infantry and 40,000 cavalry, and that300 Pontic decked and 100 open vessels put to sea, seem nottoo exaggerated in the case of a warlike sovereign who had athis disposal the numberless inhabitants of the steppes. Hisgenerals, particularly the brothers Neoptolemus and Arche-laus, were experienced and cautious Greek captains;among the soldiers of the king there was no want of bravemen who despised death ; and the armour glittering with goldand silver and the rich dresses of the Scythians and Medesmingled gaily with the bronze and steel of the Greektroopers. No unity of military organization, it is true, boundtogether these party-coloured masses; the army of Mithra­dates was just one of those unwieldy Asiatic war-machines,which had so often already—on the last occasion exactly acentury before at Magnesia—succumbed to a superior mili­tary organization; but still the East was in arms against theRomans, while in the western half of the empire also mattersWeak comi- looked far from peaceful. However much it was in itself ater prepa- political necessity for Rome to declare war against Mithra-ihelpoi i Qates, yet the particular moment was as unhappily chosen'as possible; and for this reason it is very probable, thatManius Aquillius brought about the rupture between Romeand Mithradates at this precise time primarily from a selfishview to his own interest. For the moment they had noother troops at their disposal in Asia than the small Romandivision under Lucius Cassius and the militia of western Asia,and, owing to the military and financial distress in which theywere placed at home in consequence of the insurrectionary war,a Roman army could not in the most favourable case land in86. Asia before the summer of 666. Hitherto the Roman magis­trates there had a difficult position; but they hoped to pro­tect the Roman province and to be able to hold their groundas they stood—the Bithynian army under king Nicomedes inits position taken up in the previous year in the Paphlagonianterritory between Amastris and Sinope, and the divisionsunder Lucius Cassius, Manius Aquillius, and QuintusOppius, further back in the Bithynian, Galatian, and Cap­