OCR Output 3. I. INTR0DUCTI0H. 85 and collected a body of seven hundred auxiliaries, passed overby night into Samos. They first exerted their efforts againstthe popular party, and got a majority of them into their pow­er : In the next place, they conveyed away the hostages fromLemnos by stealth ; they openly declared a revolt ; and deli­vered up the Athenian garrison, with their officers whom theyhad seized, to Pissuthnes; and then immediately preparedto renew their war against Miletus. The Byzantines fartherjoined with them in the revolt. No sooner were the Athenians informed of this, than theyput out against Samos with sixty sail, though sixteen of themwere detached for other services. Some of the latter werestationed upon the coast of Caria to observe the motions ofa Phoenician fleet, and the rest were ordered to Chios and »Lesbos to give there a summons of aid. The remainingforty-four, commanded by Pericles* and nine colleagues, en­gaged near the isle of Tragia with the Samian fleet, consist­ing of seventy sail, twenty of which had land-soldiers onboard, and the whole was now on the return from Miletus ;and here the Athenians gained a signal victory. Afterwardsforty sail arrived from Athens to reinforce them, and twenty-five from the Chians and the Lesbians. With this accession • The Athenians in the assembly of the people chose ten generals everyyear, according to the number of their tribes. They were sometimes, asin the present instance, all sent out in the same employ. They rolled, andeach in his turn was gentral of the day. Thucydides seldom gives morethan the name of one, whom we may conclude to have been the person ofthe greatest weight and influence amongst them, in fact a general in chief.Philip of Macedon was used to joke upon this multiplicity of generals." For my part (said he) I have never had the good fortune to find morethan one general in my life ; and yet the Athenians find ten fresh onesevery year." Not but that these generals were often re-elected and con-tinned years in commission. Pericles, it is plain, did so : and in lattertimes Phocion is said to have been elected five and forty times. Theirpower was great not only in the field but at Athens Every point that badrelation to war came under their department. Pericles in a foreign em­ploy was always first of the generals, and within the walls of Athens wasthe first or rather absolute minister of state. Vol. I. 2 B