OCR Output 318 [book via. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. doing he would please God: but when hewould not do so, he foretold to him, thatsince he disobeyed the commands of God,he should meet with a lion, and be destroyedby him. When that sad accident had be­fallen the man, the prophet came again toanother, and gave him the same injunction.So he smote him, and wounded his skull.Upon which he bound up his head, andcame to the king, and told him, that he hadbeen a soldier of his, and had the custodyof one of the prisoners committed to him byan officer, and that the prisoner being runaway, he was in danger of losing his ownlife, by the means of that officer; who hadthreatened him, that if the prisoner escapedhe would kill him. And when Ahab hadsaid, that he would justly die; he took offthe binding about his head, and was knownby the king to be Micaiah the prophet: whomade use of this artifice as a prelude to hisfollowing words. For he said, that Godwould punish him, who had suffered Ben-hadad, a blasphemer against him, to escapepunishment; that he would so bring itabout, that he should die by the other'smeans, and his people by the other's army.*Ahab was very angry at th*1 prophet, andgave command that he snould be put inprison, and there kept. But for himself hewas in confusion at the words of Micaiah,and returned to his own house. f CHAP. XV. OF JEHOSHAPHAT, KINO OF JERUSALEM ; ALSO OF AH AB's EXPE­DITION AGAINST THE SYRIANS, AND HIS DEFEAT AND DEATH. I NOW return to Jehoshaphat, king of Je­rusalem; who augmented his kingdom,:}: and set garrisons in the cities of the countrybelonging to his subjects; and put no lessgarrisons into those cities which were takenout of the tribe of Ephraim, by his grand­father Abijah, when Jeroboam reigned overthe ten tribes, than he did in the other. Butthen he had God favourable and assisting tohim; as being both righteous and religious,and seeking to do somewhat every day thatshould be agreeable and acceptable to God.The neighbouring kings also honoured himwith presents, till the riches that he hadacquired were immensely great, and theglory he had gained was of a most exaltednature. Now, in the third year of his reign, hecalled together the rulers of the country,and the priests; and commanded them togo round the land, and teach all the peoplethat were under him, city by city, the lawsof Moses; and to keep them, and to be dili­gent in the worship of God. With this thewhole multitude was pleased, that theywere not so eagerly set upon, or affectedwith any thing so much as the observanceof the laws. The neighbouring nations alsocontinued to love Jehoshaphat, and to be atpeace with him. The Philistines paid theirappointed tribute; and the Arabians suppliedhim with three hundred and sixty lambs,||and as many kids of the goats. He also fortified the great cities, whichwere many in number, and of great conse­quence: and he prepared a mighty army ofsoldiers, and weapons against their enemies.Now the army of men that wore their ar­mour, was three hundred thousand of thetribe of Judah: of whom Adnah was the slaughter by a lion had lately come to pass, was noother than Micaiah, the son of Imlah; who as he nowdenounced God's judgments on disobedient Ahab, seemsdirectly to have been that very prophet, whom the sameAhab in 1 Kings xxii. 8—18. complains of, as one whomhe hated; because he did not prophesy good concerninghim, but evil; and who, in that chapter, openly repeatshis denunciations against him; all which came to passaccordingly. Nor is there reason to doubt but this andthe former were the very same prophet. The otherancient Jews agreeing herein with Josephus; as bishopPatrick assures us, on 1 Kings xx. 28. This is one ofthose very many instances, in which the excellency ofJosephus's Temple copy, above all our other copies,most evidently appears. * What is most remarkable in this history, and in manyhistories on other occasions in the Old Testament, is thatduring the Jewish theocracy, God acted entirely as the supreme king of Israel, and the supreme general of theirarmies, and always expected that the Israelites shouldbe in such absolute subjection to him, their supremeand heavenly king, and general of their armies, as sub­jects and soldiers are to their earthly kings and generate;and that usually without knowing the particular reasonsof their injunctions. See Dr. Harris's Queries, 8—22,after his comment on Isa. liii. My Commentary on thebook of Job, and my Scripture Politics, page 4—7, wherehe will see that the particular Jewish theocracy did notcommence till the rest of the idolatrous and wickedworld had rejected that general theocracy, which tillthen extended over all mankind. t 1 Kings xx. 43. j About an. 914. II Seven thousand and seven hundred, Hebrew andSeptuagint. 2 Chron. xvii. 1I,