OCR Output MANTINEIA. 2fil MANTIXEIA. mints farmed an alliance with Argos, Elis, andAlliens, in B. c 421, and thus became involved inwar with Sparta. (Thuc. T. 29, 33, 47.) Thiswar was brought to a close by the decisive battlefought near Mantineia, in June, 418, in which theArgives, Mantineians, and Athenians were defeatedby the Lacedaemonians under Agis. This battlewas fought to the S. of Mantineia, between the cityand the frontiers of Tegea, and is the first of thefive great battles bearing the name of Mantineia.The Mantineians now concluded a peace with Sparta,renouncing their dominion over the districts in Ar­cadia, which they bad conquered. (Thuc. v. 65,•eq... 81.) Mantineia continued an unwilling ally of Spartafar the next 33 years j but in the second year afterthe peace of Antalcidas, which had restored to theSpartans a great part of their former power, theyresolved to crush for ever this obnoxious city. Ac­cordingly, they required the Mantineians to razetheir walls; and upon the refusal of the latter, theymarched against the city with an army under theftmmand of their king Agesipolis (b. c. 385),alleging that the truce for 30 years had expired,which had been concluded between the two statesafter the battle of 418. The Mantineians weredefeated in battle, and took refuge in their city,prepared to withstand a siege; but Agesipolis havingraised an embankment across the river Opbis, whichfljwed through Mantineia, forced bnck the waters ofthe river, and thus caused an inundation aroundthe walls of the city. These walls, being built ofunbaked bricks, soon began to give way; and theMutioeiang, fearing that the city would be taken byataaalt, were obliged to yield to the terms of theSpartans, who required that the inhabitants shouldquit the city, and be dispersed among the villages,fran the coalescence of which the city had beenoriginally formed. (Xen. Bell v. 2. §§ 6, 7; Diod.i». 5; Ephorus, ap. Barpocrat. ». v. MmripeWtaaurfiit; Pol. iv. 27; Paus. viii. 8. § 7, seq.)Of the forces of 31antinei;t shortly before this timewe have an account from the orator Lysias, whouvs that the military population or citizens of Man­tineia were not leas than 3000, which will give13.000 fur the free population of the MantineianterritrtT. (Lvsias, ap. Dionyt. p. 531; Clinton,F.H. vol. ii. p. 416.) The Mantineians did not long remain in this dis­persed condition. When the Spartan supremacy•a overthrown by the batt'e of Leuctra in 371,the; again assembled together, and rebuilt their city.Tbey took care to exclude the river from the newcitr. and to make the stone substructions of the wallshither than they had been previously. (Xen. Bellvi. 5. § 3; Paus. viii. 8. § 10; Leake, Morea, vol.iii. p. 73.) The Mantineians took an active part inthe formation of the Arcadian confederacy, and int!« foundation of Megalopolis, which followed imme.diitely after the restoration of their own city; andone of their own citizens, Lycomedes, was the chiefprwwiter of the scheme. But a few years afterwardsthe Mantineians, for reasons which are not distinctlymeoiijned, quarrelled with the supreme Arcadianrortmnwnt, and formed an alliance with their in­veterate enemies the Spartans. In order to putd^wa thia new coalition, Epaminondas marched intotoe Peloponnesus; and Mantineia was again thewae of another great battle (the second of the fivetilled to above), in which the Spartans were de­bated, but which wag rendered still more uiemo- rable by the death of Epaminondas. (Xen. Hellvii. 5; Diod. xv. 84.) The site of this battle is de­scribed below. The third and fourth battles of Man­tineia are only incidentally mentioned by the an­cient writers: the third was fought in 295, whenDemetrius Poliorcetes defeated Archidamus and theSpartans (PluL Demetr. 35); the fourth in 242,when Aratus and the Achacans defeated the Spar­tans under Agis, the latter falling in the battle.(I'aus. viii. 10. § 5, seq.) Mantineia continued to bo one of the most power­ful towns of Arcadia down to the time of theAchaean League. It at first joined this league ; butit subsequently deserted it, and, together withOrchomenus and Tegea, became a member of theAetolian confederacy. These three cities at a latertime renounced their alliance with the Aetolians,and entered into a close union with Sparta, aboutB. c. 228. This step was the immediate cause ofthe war between the Achaeans and the Spartans,usually called the Cleomenic War. In 226, Arutussurprised Mantineia, and compelled the city to re­ceive an Achaean garrison. The Mantineians soonafterwards expelled the Achaeans, and again joinedthe Spartans; but the city was taken a second time,in 222, by Antigunus Doson, whom the Achaeanshad invited to their assistance. It was now treatedwith great severity. It was abandoned to plunder,its citizens were sold as slaves, and its name changedto Antigoneia ('AirryoVeia), in compliment to theMacedonian monarch (Pol. ii. 57, seq.; Plut. AraU45 ; Paus. viii. 8. § 11). In 207, the plain ofMantineia was the scene of a fifth great battle,between the Achaean forces, commanded by Philo-poemen, and the Lacedaemonians, under the tyrantMachanidas, in which the latter was defeated andslain. An account of this battle is given by Poly-bius, from whom we learn that the Achaean armyoccupied the entire breadth of the plain S. of thecity, and that their light-armed troops occupied thehill to the E. of the city called Alesium by Pausanios.The Lacedaemonians were drawn up opposite tothe Achaeans ; and the two armies thus occupiedthe same position as in the first battle of Manti­neia, fought in the Peloponnesian War. (Pol.xi. 11.) The Mantineians were the only Arcadianpeople who fought on the side of Augustus at thebattle of Actium. (Paus. viii. 8. § 12.) The citycontinued to bear the name of Antigoneia till the timeof Hadrian, who restored to it its ancient appellation,and conferred upon it other marks of his favour, inhonour of his favourite. Antinous, because the Bi-thynians, to whom Antinous belonged, claimeddescent from the Mantineians. (Paus. viii. 8. § 12,viii. 9. §7.) The territory of Mantineia was bounded on thoW. by Mt. Maenalus, and on tho E. by Mt. Artemi-siuin, which separated it from Argolis. Its north­ern frontier was a low narrow ridge, separating itfrom Orchomenia; its southern frontier, whichdivided it from Tegcatis, was formed by a narrowpart of the valley, hemmed in by a projecting ridgefrom Mt. Maenalus on the one side, and by a r-imilarridge from Mt. Artemisius on tho other. (See below.)The territory of Mantineia forms part of the plain nowcalled the plain of Tripolitzti, from the modern townof this name, lying between the undent Mantineiaand Tegea, and which is the principal place in thedistrict. This plain is about 25 English miles inlength, with a breadth varying from 1 to 8, andincludes, besides the territory of Mantineia, that of ■ 3