OCR Output 6 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR, B. V. and, from a contempt of his opponents, would certainlyadvance thither, without waiting for reinforcements. He had, at the same time provided himself with fif­teen hundred mercenary Thracians, and had assembledall the Edonian targeteers and horsemen. Of theMyr-cinians and Chalcideans he had a thousand targeteers,besides those in Amphipolis. But his whole force ofheavy-armed of all forts amounted to about two thou­sand; and he had three hundred Grecian horsemen,"With^a detachment, consisting of fifteen hundred ofthese, Brasidas had posted himself at Cerdylium; therest were left in Amphipolis, under the orders of Cle-aridas. Cleon remained without stirring for the present, butwas soon forced to such a step as Brasidas expected.The soldiers were chagrined at their inactivity, andwere disparaging his conduct by invidious parallels,"against how much siVill and courage, with how much'* unskilfulness and cowardice, he was- matched;" andthat, " with the highest regret they had attended him"from Athens on this expedition." Sensible of theirdiscontent, and unwilling to disgust them more, by toolong a continuance in the same post, he urew them up andled them on. He acted now, upon the vain conceit withwhich his success at Pylus had puffed him up, as a man ofgreat importance. It could not enter his heart, that theenemy would presume to march out against and offerhim battle. He gave out, that " he was only advan-"cing in order to view the place; he waited indeed the"arrival of additional forces, not as if they were need-** fill to his security, should the enemy attack him, but** to enable him completely to invest the city, and to"take it by storm." Being advanced, he posted histroops upon a strong eminence before Amphipolis, andwent in person to view the marshes of the Strymon, andthe situation of the city on the side of Thrace, how itreally was. He judged he could retreat at pleasure,without a battle. Not so much as one person appeared vpon