OCR Output 25a DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. Negotu. In peace, the king of Persia continually sought thetaSto* pretences of a rupture; but no sooner had he takenbetween up arms, than he expressed his desire of a safe and ho- Jnstinian 1 , i-* » if i • 1 and cho«- nourable treaty. During the fiercest hostilities, the twoITd. 540 monarchs entertained a deceitful negotiation; and such—541. was tne superiority of Chosroes, that whilst he treatedthe Roman ministers with insolence and contempt, heobtained the most unprecedented honours for his ownambassadors at the imperial court. The successor ofCyrus assumed the majesty of the eastern sun, and gra­ciously permitted his younger brother Justinian to reignover the west, with the pale and reflected splendour ofthe moon. This gigantic style was supported by thepomp and eloquence of Isdigune, one of the royal cham­berlains. His wife and daughters, with a train of eu­nuchs and camels, attended the march of the ambassa­dor: two satraps with golden diadems were numberedamong his followers: he was guarded by five hundredhorse, the most valiant of the Persians; and the Romangovernor of Dara wisely refused to admit more thantwenty of this martial and hostile caravan. When Isdi­gune had saluted the emperor, and delivered his presents,he passed ten months at Constantinople without discuss­ing any serious affairs. Instead of being confined to hispalace, and receiving food and water from the hands ofhis keepers, the Persian ambassador, without spies orguards, was allowed to visit the capital; and the free­dom of conversation and trade enjoyed by his domesticsoffended the prejudices of an age, which rigorously prac­tised the law of nations, without confidence or courtesy."By an unexampled indulgence, his interpreter, a servantbelow the notice of a Roman magistrate, was seated, at Tishes eighteen or twenty pages of false and florid rhetoric. His ignorance or care­lessness overlooks the strongest argument against the king of Lazica—his formerrevolt. "Procopias represents the practice of the Gothic court of Ravenna; (Goth. lib.1. c. 7.) and foreign amhassadors have been treated with the same jealousy and ri­gour in Turkey, (Busbequius, epist. 3. p. 149. 843, &c.) Russia (Voyage d'Olea-rius), and China. (Narrative of M. de Lange, in Bell's Travels, vol. 2. p. 189—311.)