OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 265 of the Etruscans and Greeks: in the mad abuse of chap. » YYYVIT prosperity and power, every pleasure that is innocent' was deemed insipid; and the Scatinian law, whichhad been extorted by an act of violence, was insensi­bly abolished by the lapse of time and the multitudeof criminals. By this law, the rape, perhaps the se­duction of an ingenuous youth, was compensated, asa personal injury, by the poor damages of ten thou­sand sesterces, or fourscore pounds; the ravishermight be slain by the resistance or revenge of chas­tity; and I wish to believe, that at Rome, as inAthens, the voluntary and effeminate deserter of hissex was degraded from the honours and the rights ofa citizen*. But the practice of vice was not dis­couraged by the severity of opinion: the indeliblestain of manhood was confounded with the morevenial transgression of fornication, nor was the licen­tious lover exposed to the same dishonour which heimpressed on the male or female partner of his guilt.From Catullus to Juvenal t, the poets accuse andcelebrate the degeneracy of the times, and the re­formation of manners was feebly attempted by thereason and authority of the civilians, till the mostvirtuous of the Caesars proscribed the sin againstnature as a crime against society J. A new spirit of legislation arose in the empire Rigour ofwith the religion of Constantine §. The laws oftianem-"Moses were received as the divine original of justice, perors'and the Christian princes adapted their penal sta- *See the oration of ^Eschines against the catamite Timarchus (in Reiske,Orator. Graec. torn. iii. p. 21—184). "f A crowd of disgraceful passages will force themselves on the memory of theclassic reader: I will only remind him of the cool declaration of Ovid—77«e•words must not be inserted, but they speak volumes.—Editor. % Mlias Lampridius, in Vit. Heliogobal. in Hist. August, p. 112. AureliusVictor, in Philippo, Codex Theodos. 1. ix. tit. vii. leg. 7? and Godefroy's Com­mentary, tom. iii. p. 63. Theodosius abolished the subterraneous brothels ofRome, in which the prostitution of both sexes was acted with impunity. § See the laws of Constantine and his successors against adultery, sodomy, &c.in the Theodosian (1. ix. tit. vii. leg. 7. 1. xi. tit. xxxvi. leg. 1. 1J and JustinianCodes (1. ix. tit. ix. leg. 30, 31).