OCR Output 278 DECLINE AND FALL [GHAP. XLIII. his wife; but the servitude of habit and affection be­came less disgraceful when the death of Theodora hadremoved the baser influence of fear. Joannina theirdaughter, and the sole heiress of their fortunes, was be­trothed to Anastasius, the grandson, or rather nephew,of the empress/ whose kind interposition forwarded theconsummation of their youthful loves. But the powerof Theodora expired, the parents of Joannina returned,and her honour, perhaps her happiness, were sacrificedto the revenge of an unfeeling mother, who dissolved theimperfect nuptials before they had been ratified by theceremonies of the church.yRome Before the departure of Belisarius, Perusia was be- again . . _ _ . taken by sieged, and few cities were impregnable to the GothicA.eD.°549. arms. Ravenna, Ancona, and Crotona still resisted theBarbarians; and when Totila asked in marriage one ofthe daughters of France, he was stung by the just re­proach that the king of Italy was unworthy of his titletill it was acknowledged by the Roman people. Threethousand of the bravest soldiers had been left to defendthe capital. On the suspicion of a monopoly, they mas­sacred the governor, and announced to Justinian, by adeputation of the clergy, that unless their offence waspardoned, and their arrears were satisfied, they should in­stantly accept the tempting offers of Totila. But theofficer, who succeeded to the command (his name wasDiogenes), deserved their esteem and confidence; andthe Goths, instead of finding an easy conquest, encoun­tered a vigorous resistance from the soldiers and people, x Alemannns, (ad Hist. Arcanam, p. 68.) Ducange, (Familiaj Byzant. p. 98.) andHeineccius, (Hist. Juris Civilis, p. 434.) all three represent Anastasius as the son ofthe daughter of Theodora; and their opinion firmly reposes on the unambiguous tes­timony of Procopius. (Anecdot. c. 4, 5—8uy«T{iS«i twice repeated.) And yet I willremark, 1. That in the year 547, Theodora could scarcely have a grandson of the ageof puberty: 2. That we are totally ignorant of this daughter and her husband; and,3. That Theodora concealed her bastards, and that her grandson by Justinian wouldhave been heir-apparent of the empire. y The ajuttgrtjjUATa, or sins, of the hero of Italy and after his return, are manifestedamaga.xai.vttTx;, and most probably swelled, by the author of the Anecdotes, (o. 4,5.) The designs of Antonina were favoured by the fluctuating jurisprudence ofJnstinian. On the law of marriage and divorce, that emperor was trocho versa-lilior. (Heineccius. Element. Juris. Civil, ad Ordinem Pandect, p. 4. no. 233.)