OCR Output 40 LIVY. the annulling of his commission was negatived, but, onthe day following, every one of the centuries, with thegreatest unanimity, concurred in electing him consul.The colleague joined with him was Titus Quintius Cris-pinus, then a pretor. Next day were elected pretors,Publius Licinius Crassus Dives, then chief pontiff,Publius Licinius Varus, Sextus Julius Cassar, QuintusClaudius, flamen. During the very time of the elec­tions the public were much disturbed with apprehen­sions of a revolt in Etruria. That some scheme of thatkind had been set on foot by the Arretians was assertedin a letter of Caius Calpurnius, who, in the characterof propretor, held the government of that province.Wherefore Marcellus, consul elect, was immediatelydespatched thither, with orders to inquire into the affair,and, if he should see occasion, to send for his army,and remove the war from Apulia to Etruria. The fearof this gave the Etrurians such a check as kept themquiet. Ambassadors from the Tarentines came to so­licit a treaty of peace, requesting that they might beallowed to live in freedom under their own laws;but the senate desired them to come again, when theconsul Fabius would have returned to Rome. Boththe Roman and plebeian games were this year repeatedfor one day. The curule ediles were Lucius CorneliusCaudinus, and Servius Sulpicius Galba; the plebeian,Caius Servilius and Quintus Caecilius Metellus. Manypeople insisted that Servilius could not legally haveheld the office of tribune, nor could now hold that ofedile, because it was well known that his father, who,for ten years, was supposed to have been killed by theBoians near Mutina, when triumvir for the distribu­tion of lands, was still living, and in the hands of theenemy. 22. In the eleventh year of the Punic war com­menced the consulate of Marcus Marcellus, a fifth time,(reckoning the consulship, which, because of an irregu­larity in the election, he did not hold,) and Titus Quin­tius Crispinus. It was decreed that both the consulsshould be employed in Italy, as their province; and