OCR Output 118 [BOOK TV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. good things it produces. Moses, therefore,sent messengers to Sihon, the king of thiscountry, desiring that he would grant his armya passage, upon what security he shouldplease to require: he promised that he shouldbe no ways injured; neither as to that countrywhich Sihon governed, nor as to its inhabi­tants: and that he would buy his provisionsat such a price as should be to their advan­tage; even though he should desire to sellthem their very water. But Sihon refused hisoffer, and put his army in array, preparingevery thing in order to hinder their passageover Arnon.* When Moses saw that the Amorite king wasdisposed to commence hostilities, he thoughthe ought not to bear that insult; and deter­mining to wean the Hebrews from their indo­lent temper, and prevent the disorders whicharose thence, which had been the occasion oftheir former sedition; nor indeed were theynow thoroughly easy in their minds: he en­quired of God, whether he would give himleave to fight? which when he had done, andGod had promised him the victory, he wasvery courageous, and ready to proceed tofighting. Accordingly he encouraged thesoldiers, and desired of them that they wouldtake the pleasure of fighting, now God gavethem leave so to do. Upon this commission,which they so much longed for, they put ontheir armour, and set about the work withoutdelay. But the Amorite king was not nowlike to himself, when the Hebrews were readyto attack him; both himself was affrighted atthe Hebrews, and his army, which before hadshewn themselves to be of good courage,were then found to be timorous. So theycould not sustain the first onset, nor bear upagainst the Hebrews: but fled away, think­ing this would afford them a more likely wayfor their escape than fighting. For they de­pended upon their cities, which were strong;from which they reaped no advantage, whenthey were forced to fly from them. For assoon as the Hebrews saw them giving ground,they immediately pursued; and when theyhad broken their ranks, they greatly terrifiedthem. And some of them broke off from therest, and ran away to the cities. Now the Hebrews pursued them briskly; and obsti­nately persevered in the labours they hadalready undergone; and being very skilful inslinging, and very dexterous in throwingdarts, or any thing else of that kind; andalso having on nothing but light armour,which made them quick in pursuit, they over­took their enemies. And for those that weremost remote, and could not be overtaken,they reached them by their slings and theirbows, so that many were slain, and those thatescaped the slaughter were sorely wounded;and these were more distressed with thirst,than with any of those that fought againstthem, for it was the summer season: and whenthe greatest number of them were broughtdown to the river, out of a desire to drink;as also when others fled away by troops, theHebrews came round them, and shot atthem; so that what with darts, and what witharrows, they made a slaughter of them all:Sihon also, their king, was slain. So the He­brews spoiled their dead bodies, and tooktheir prey.f The land also, which they took,was full of fruits, and the army went all overit without fear, and fed their cattle upon it,and took the enemies prisoners. For theycould no way put a stop to them, since all thefighting men were destroyed. Such was thedestruction which overtook the Amorites,who were neither sagacious in counsel, norcourageous in action. Hereupon the He­brews took possession of their land, which issituate between three rivers, and naturallyresembling an island, the river Arnon beingits northern limit, and the river Jabbok de­termining its southern side; which, runninginto Jordan, loses its own name, and takesthe other. While Jordan itself runs along byit, on its western coast.J When matters were come to this state, Og,the king of Gilead and Gaulanitis, fell uponthe Israelites. He brought an army with him,and came in haste to the assistance of hisfriend Sihon. But though he found himalready slain, he resolved to fight the He­brews, supposing he should be too hardfor them, and being desirous to try their va­lour. But failing of his hope, he was bothslain in the battle, and all his army was de­ * Nnmb. xxi. 23. t This victory is celebrated in Numb. xxi. SOi. Deut. i. 4. iii. 2. iv. 46. xxix. 7, 8. Josh. xiii. 10. Judges xi. 21.Ps. exam. 10, 11. cxxxvi. 18, 19. and by Philo, p. 642.J Numb. xxi. 24.