OCR Output CHAP. L. 30 J blessed inhabitants with a liberal taste for harmony andscience, conversation and friendship, he idly celebratesthe pearls and diamonds, the robes of silk, palaces ofmarble, dishes of gold, rich wines, artificial dainties, nu­merous attendants, and the whole train of sensual andcostly luxury, which becomes insipid to the owner, evenin the short period of this mortal life. Seventy-twokauris, or black-eyed girls, of resplendent beauty, bloom­ing youth, virgin-purity, and exquisite sensibility, willbe created for the use of the meanest believer; a momentof pleasure will be prolonged to a thousand years, andhis faculties will be increased a hundred-fold, to renderhim worthy of his felicity. Notwithstanding a vulgarprejudice, the gates of heaven will be open to both sexes;but Mahomet has not specified the male companions ofthe female elect, lest he should either alarm the jealousyof their former husbands, or disturb their felicity, by thesuspicion of an everlasting marriage. This image of acarnal paradise has provoked the indignation, perhapsthe envy of the monks: they declaim against the impurereligion of Mahomet; and his modest apologists aredriven to the poor excuse of figures and allegories. Butthe sounder and more consistent party adhere, withoutshame, to the literal interpretation of the Koran; uselesswould be the resurrection of the body, unless it were re­stored to the possession and exercise of its worthiestfaculties; and the union of sensual and intellectual en­joyment is requisite to complete the happiness of thedouble animal, the perfect man. Yet the joys of theMahometan paradise will not be confined to the indul­gence of luxury and appetite; and the prophet has ex­pressly declared, that all meaner happiness will be for­gotten and despised by the saints and martyrs, who shallbe admitted to the beatitude of the divine vision." 'For the day of judgment, hell, paradise, &c. consult the Koran, (c. 2. v. 25.c. 56. 78, &c.) with Maracci's virulent, but learned, refutation, (in his notes, andin the Frodromus, part 4. p. 78.120. 122, &c.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque Orien-tale, p. 368. 375.) Reland, (p. 47—61.) and Sale. (76—103.) The original