OCR Output 310 MEGALOPOLIS. MEGARA. in the time of Pausanias, bat in Zoetia there stillremained & temple of Deinetcr and Artemis. Paro-rcia probably occupied the site of I\iUomiri. Titv-kaki.'M (©4/ooioi*) was founded by a son of Lycaon,and may be placed at Palamdri, at the foot of themountain. The other side road branched off fromMethydrium to the right, ascending to the fountainCui'Xi (Kpoyfof). and from thence descending 30stadia to tlie tomb of Callisto, a lofty mound of earth,upon which was a temple ot Artemis Calliste. HerePausanias turned to the left, and at the distance of25 stadia from this tnmb he reached Ankho9A('Avf^wtra), on the direct road from Megalopolis toMethydrium. As Anemosa was 100 stadia fromTricoloni and 57 from Methydrium. it may be placedat Ziboviti. Beyond Anemosa the road passed overthe mountain Phalanthum, upon which were theruins of the town I'liALANTItrs (♦oiA<u»flor). Onthe other side of this mountain was the plain ofl'olus, and near it Schoexps (3x°"'<,''')i whichwas called from a Boeotian of this name : near Schoe-nus were the race-grounds of Atalanta. Methydriumwas the next phice. [Methydhil'm.] (Paus. viii.35 §5. seq.) 5. The road ti Maenalus, led along the Ilelissonto the foot of Mt. Maenalus. In leaving the city itfirst ran through a marshy district, which was herecalled Hclos; it then entered a narrow valley, inwhich was a place called Paliscius (IloAio-icioj),where a mountain torrent, named Elaphus, flowedinto the Ilelisson on the left: this is the torrentwhich flows from Valtctzi. Here a side road ranalong the left bank of the Elaphus, for 20 stadia,to Pkkaktiieis (n«piu8tij), where was a temple ofPan; it must have stood near Rakhamyta. Butthe direct road crossed the Elaphus, and entered theMaenalian plain, at the distance of 15 stadia fromthe Elaphus. This number, however, is much toosmall, as it is 5 geographical miles from the junc­tion of the Elaphus with the Hclisson into the Mae­nalian plain. (I,rnke, J'eloponneiiaca, p. 242;Paus. viii. 36. § 5, seq.) 6. The road to Pliiiraloia crossed the Alpheiusat the distance of 20 stadia from Megalopolis. Twostadia from the Alpheius were the ruins of Maca-keae, 7 Btadia further those of Dabkae, udagain 7 stadia the hill Acacesius, upon whichstood the city Acacesil'M. At the distance of 4stadia from Acacesium, was the temple of Despoena,one of the most celebrated sanctuaries in the Pelo­ponnesus, and of which Pausanias has given a parti­cular description. Adjoining, was the temple ofPan, above which stood the ancient city of l.vco-fci'KA. Between Lycosura and the river Plalaniston,which was 30 stadia from Phigaleia, Pausaniasmentions no object, though the direct distance be­tween Lycosura and this river is 9 geographicalmiles. (Paus. viii. 30. §§ 9—39.) 7. The road to Palhintium and Tegea, passedfirst through Ladoceia, a subuib of Megalopolis,next by the ruins of Haemoniak [see Vol. I.p. 192, b.] ; beyond which, to the ri^'lit of the road,were the ruins of Okestiiasiim; while upon thedirec: road were the villages of Apiutontsii'M andAtiiksaei'M; and 20 stadia beyond the Utter theruins of Aska, near which were the sources of theAlpheius and the Eurotaa. Kroin Asea there wasan ascent to the mountain called Borcium, uponwhich was the Choma, marking the boundaries ofMegalopolis, Pallantiuin, and Tegca. (Paus. viii.44.) 8. The rood to Heraea was the one by whichPausanias travelled to Megalopolis, and conse-quently is described by him in an inverse directionto that of the others. This was the great Rerr-aaroad through the Peloponnesus, which occurs in thePeutioger Table. After leaving Heraea, the tintplace was Melaeneae, which in the time of Pso-sanias was deserted and covered with water. Korystadia above Melaeneac was Bi/ritAOIt'M, ai tlstsources of the river Buphagns, near which were lb*boundaries of Heraea and Megalopolis. Next toBuphagium came the village Makatiia, and thenGortys. Further on was the sepulchre of tins*slain in battle against Cleomenes, and called Pa-raebahil'M (riapaigaTioi'), because Cleomenes vi.wlated his covenant with them. On the right ot theroad were the ruins of Bbkkthk, and on the otherside of the Alpheius the ruins of TkaI'F-71 s. De­scending from thence towards the Alpheius was aplace called Bathos. Ten stadia further was Ka­hilis; beyond which, after crossing the Alpliriua,the traveller came to Thocnia, a descried citystanding upon a height above the Aminius. a tri­butary of the Helisson. (Paus. viii. 26 § 8, Tifi.2—8.) (Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 29. seq. p. 289, aeo^,Peloponnetiaca, p. 231, seq.: Bolilaye, /kVAeisrA**,ffc. p. 167, seq.; Koss, Reisen im J'tlvpcimrt. p.74, seq.; Curtius, Pelopomtna, vol. i. p. 281,seq.) COIN OF MEGALOPOLIS. MEGALOPOLIS. l.InCaria. [AriiBommaj.] 2. In Pontus. [Sebartia.] ME'GAItA, sometimes calfed, for distincti-«i»sake, MEGARA HYBI.AEA(TAMr7as«: Elk. *.-yaptvi or MrycuTcvf 'TtfAaTof, Megarrnsis). a citj ofSicily, situated on the E. coast of the island, be­tween Syracuse and Catana, in the deep bay fannedby the Xiphonian promontory. It was unques­tionably a Greek colony, deriving its origin {nanthe Megara in Greece Proper; and Um cirraun-stances attending its foundation are related in detailby Thucydidea. He tells us that a colony from Me­gara, under the command of a leader named l.au>ii\arrived in Sicily about the time that Leontini ii>fotinded by the Chalcidic colonists, and settledthemselves first near the mouth of the river Pac-tagias, at a place called Trotilus. Krom thence theyremoved to* Leontini itself, where tbey dwelt fur atime together with the Chalcidians; but were m>«iafterwards expelled by them, and next establishedthemselves on the promontory or peninsula tafThapsus, near Syracuse. Hence they again removtslafter the death of Lam is. and, at the suggestion <<llyblon, a Sicilian chief of the surrounding country,finally settled at a place afterwards called the lly-blaean Megara. (Thuc. ri. 4.) Srymnna Ch.asfollows a different tradition, as he descrile* lb* eata-blishment of the Chalcidians at Xaios and that (the Mrgarians at Hybla as contemporary, and b.cfipreceding the fotaidation of Syracuse, B. c 734.Strabo also adopts the winie view of the sut>_ect_ ashe represents Megara as founded about the