OCR Output 14B THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VI. - -erect an oligarchical and tyrannic power. And, astheir passions were inflamed by such apprehensions,"many worthy and valuable citizens were alreadythrown into prison. Nay, it seemed as it their inquisi­tion was to have no end, since from day to day theirindignation gave into more increasing severity, andnumbers were constantly arrested. Here, one of those* who had been imprisoned on suspicion (and a suspi­cion too of being most deeply concerned in the crime)is persuaded, by one of his fellow-prisoners, to turn anevidence, no matter whether of truth or falsehood. Manyconjectures have passed on both sides; but no one,neither at that time nor since, hath been able to dis­cover the men who were really concerned in the affair. Theargument which prevailed upon this person was, " the ne-'* cessuy for his taking such a step, even though he had*' no hand in the commission, since by this he would in-"fallibly procure hisown safety,and deliver thecityfrom"its present confusions. For he must be much more*' secure of saving his life by such voluntary confession"on a promise of indemnity, than he could possibly"be should he persist in an avowal of his innocence, and"be brought to a trial." In short, this man becamean evidence, both against himself and against others, inthe affair of the Mercuries. Great was the joy of the Athenian people at this (as itwas thought) undoubted discovery. And, as they hadbeen highly chagrined before at their inability to detectthe criminals, who had so outrageously insulted the mul­titude, they immediately discharged this informer, andall other prisoners, whom he did not name as accom­plices. Upon such as he expressly named the judicialtrials were held. Some of them they put to death, as many * This person, according to Plutarch in Ahihiada, was Andocides the orator, aman always reckoned of the oligarchical faction. And one Timæus, his intimatefriend, who was a man of small consideration at Athens but remarkable for a pene-'tratirjg and enterprising genius, was the person who persuaded him to turn informer.