OCR Output t»«vi A Survey of the History. ment. The project is described, and the probability of suc­cess established. But the very grandeur of the attempt de­ters the undertakers. Athens indeed is alarmed, and throwninto a great consternation; but, the project totally miscarries,and the Piraeus is better secured for the future. All Thrace is now arming under Sitalces against Perdic-cas king of Macedonia. A vast army of Barbarians is as­sembled, marches over a great length of country, strikes ageneral panic, effectuates no real service, and soon dispersesor moulders away. Such bulky unwieldy armies make anawkward figure, compared with the regularity, exact disci­pline, and personal bravery of the diminutive armies ofGreece. Thucydides gives us once more a sight of Phormio andhis gallant squadron; and then closeth the book, and thehistory of the third year of the war. " Never history (says" Rapin) comprised so much matter in so little room, nor"so much action in so few words. If any thing can be"found fault with, it is that the exploits are too closely" crowded with one another, so that the coherence seems" somewhat intricate and confused, and the multiplying of" objects tends only to dissipate the attention of the reader."An historian however is to take his incidents in their natu­ral order, as they subsist in fact. He is not so much todispose, as to describe them. If he does the latter perti­nently, accurately, and with a due attention to their im­portance, he hath acquitted himself of his duty. The poetor writer of fiction must pick out and heighten his incidents,with a view to fill up properly, and give to every distinctobject its needful splendor: He is to exert his choice, andby exerting it judiciously to gain applause. The historian isnot to pick but to make the best use of his materials. Hemay give them indeed all possible lustre; but, if they crowdtoo thick upon one another, the reader may be embarrassedwith the number, yet nobody can be justly blamed. Book III. The Third Book is no less full of matter than