OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 203 zeal of his Transalpine allies, enforced his complaintand request by an eloquent letter in the name and per­son of St. Peter himself/ The apostle assures hisadoptive sons, the king, the clergy, and the nobles ofFrance, that dead in the flesh, he is still alive in thespirit; that they now hear, and must obey, the voice ofthe founder and guardian of the Roman church; thatthe Virgin, the angels, the saints, and the martyrs, andall the host of heaven, unanimously urge the request,and will confess the obligation; that riches, victory,and paradise, will crown their pious enterprise, andthat eternal damnation will be the penalty of their neg­lect, if they suffer his tomb, his temple, and his people,to fall into the hands of the perfidious Lombards. Thesecond expedition of Pepin was not less rapid and for­tunate than the first: St. Peter was satisfied, Rome wasagain saved, and Astolphus was taught the lessons ofjustice and sincerity by the scourge of a foreign mas­ter. After this double chastisement, the Lombardslanguished about twenty years in a state of languor anddecay. But their minds were not yet humbled to theircondition; and instead of affecting the pacific virtuesof the feeble, they peevishly harassed the Romans witha repetition of claims, evasions, and inroads, whichthey undertook without reflection and terminated with­out glory. On either side, their expiring monarchy waspressed by the zeal and prudence of Pope Adrian I.the genius, the fortune, and greatness, of Charle­magne the son of Pepin; these heroes of the churchand state were united in public and domestic friend­ship, and while they trampled on the prostrate, theyvarnished their proceedings with the fairest colours ofequity and moderation.8 The passes of the Alps, and 'See this most extraordinary letter in the Codex Carolines, epist. 3. p. 92.The enemies of the popes hare charged them with fraud and blasphemy; yet tkeysnrely meant to persuade rather than deceive. This introduction of the dead, orof immortals, was familiar to the ancient orators, though it is executed on thi-occasion in the rude fashion of the age. f Except in the divorce of the daughter of Desiderius, whom Charlemagne re­