OCR Output 816 ROMA. ROMA. of gladiatorial combats at Hume took place on theForum Boarium, at the funeral of the father ofMarcus and Decimal Brutus, u. c. 264. (VaLMax. ii. 4. § 7.) The valley between the Palatine and Aventine,occupied by the Circus Maximus was, as we havebad occasion to mention in the former part of thisarticle, in earlier times called Vallis Mcrcia, froman altar of the Dea MuTCM, or Venus, which stoodthere. He who mounts the enormous mam of ruinswhich marks the site of the imperial palace on theS. side of the Palatine hill may still trace the extentand configuration of the circus, the area of which isoccupied by kitchen gardens, whilst a gas manufac­tory stands on the site of the carceres. The de­scription of the circus itself will be reserved for aseparata section devoted to objects of the samedescription, and we shall here only treat of thedifferent monuments contained in it as a Region ordistrict. The whole length of the circus wasstadia, or nearly half a mile, the circular end beingnear the Septtzonium, and the carceres or startingplace nearly uuder the church of S. Anastitsui, wherethe circus adjoined the Forum Boariuin. Its prox­imity to the latter is shown by the circumstance thatthe Maxima Ara Hercults before alluded to is some­times mentioned as being at the entrance of the CircusMaximus, and sometimes as on the Forum Boarium(*' Ingens ara Herculis (xis januas Circi Maximi"Serv. ad Am. viii. 271; cf. Dionys. i. 40; Ovid, Fast.i. 581; Liv. i. 7, &c.) The large TttfPLB ok Hkr-CULEI must undoubtedly have been close to thisaltar, but on the Forum Boarium. The Vallis Murcia contained several old andfamous temples and altars, some of which were in­cluded in the circus itself. Such was the casewith the altar or SACELLUM of Mum ia herself(*' Intumus Circus ad Murcim vocatur — ibi sacelluinetiam nunc Murteae Veneris," Varr. L. L. v. § 154,Mull.); but its exact site cannot be determined.CoMSUI had also a subterranean altar in the circus,which was opened during the games and closed atother times. It is described by Tertullian as being"ad primas metas," and therefore probably at a dis­tance of about one-third of the whole length of thecircus from the carceres, and near the middle of the S.sideof the Palatine kill. (Tart. de$pect.5; \\tt.L.L.vi. § 20, HUH.; Tac Ann. xii. 24; Hut. Rom. 14.)But the chief temple on the circus was the Tkmpleof THK Si n, to which deity it was principally conse­crated (''Circus Soli principaliterconsecratur: cujusacdea medio spatio et effigies de fastigio aedistmicat," Tert. Spect 8). Tacitus mentions the sameancient temple as being "apud Circum" {Ann. xv.74); and from a comparison of these passages wemay conclude that it stood in the middle of one ofits sides, and probably under the Aventine. TheXotitia and Curiosnm mention it ambiguously in con­junction with a TEMPLE OF Lrx.v, so that it mightpossibly be inferred that both deities had a commontemple (" Templum Solis et Lunae," Reg. xi.). Itseems, however, more probable that there were twodistinct temples, as we frequently find them men­tioned separately in authors, but never in conjunction.It is perhaps the same temple of Luna which weliave already mentioned on the Aventine. in whichcase it might have been situated on the declivity ofthat hill facing the circus, and behind the templeof BoL Luna, like Sol, was a Circensian deity,both performing their appointed circuits in qua­drigae. (Job. Ljdut, de Mais. i. 12; Tert. Spcct. 9; Cass. Var.'m. 51.) The situation of "he!of Mkrciry, mentioned next to the two |ones in the Curiosum, may be determined iaccuracy, if we may believe an account iXaidiui (Rom. Ant lib. vii. c. 3) on uSe iof a certain Francesco Passeri, r^pectisf, tcovery of the remains of a small temple d tan*in a vineyard between the Circus!Aventine. The remains were those of t Irfthlstyle temple, which was identified as tbal of Ifrom an altar having the caduonu sod Isculptured on it. The temple is repre*ala4<medal of M. Aurelius, who appears to am Iit. The site agrees with that described bj({Fast. v. 669):— "Templa tibi posuere patres spcctunaCIdibus: ex illo est haec tibi festa tit*-* A comparison of this passage with Lrrv,'Mercurii dedicata est Idibus Mi-" (ii.that the same ancient sanctuary is idedication of which caused a dispute 1consuls, b. c. 495 (lb. c 27). We next Itioned in the Xotitia an Akues Matku Ianother of Jo vis Arboratukis, forwhidnprobably read "Liberatoris." The - Jwas one of the Circensian divinities, fieriwas exhibited on the spina (Tert. Spectwould appear that she had alsovicinity. Of a temple of Jupiter Lib-nothing further, though Jove wasshipped at Home under that name (T«64, xvi. 35), and games celebrated in hailthe month of October. (CalcmL Vmdakq^Reg. p. 192.) Next to these an A t r>i - Drrrs Patin the Xvttiia, but does not appear is the ^Some writers would identify lh*pater 1masts, quasi Sumuius Maniam( v. unir.)Mart. Capell. ii. 161); but therefere nee of opinion respecting this oldand even the Romans themselves could 1cisely who he was. Thus Ovid (Aoat til a Heddita, quisquis is est, Summano ITunc cum Romania, Pyrrhe, 1 The temple to him here alluded tocertainly near the Circus Maxim as,mentions some annual sacrifices of «u inter aedem Juventatis et4); and that the Tkmi-le or Jetthe Circus Slaximus we learn fromtatis acdetn in Circo Maximo C. Lktriumvir dedicavit" (xxxvii. 36; c£XII. Kat. JuL: M Summano ad Circ 1temple of Summanus, therefore, maatdedicated during the war with Prrrfatta, jJuventas in B. c. 192. Close to the \V. extremity of thetowering as it were over the carries Ibuilt apparently on the slope of the Ac• - !•. i&pvfxtvos Tots aC'*«-T« ^. Dionys. vi. 1famous Temple of Cere.% dedicated iand Lihkra. Thus Tacitus, relating fof the temple by Tiberias, it havingby Augustus, says: "Libero, Liberaoqvt) ijuxta Circum Maximum, quam A.'tator voverat (dedicavit)" (.4im. ii. 49^tioned by other writers as ■ ad Ciiwhence Carina's identification of it witft 1of S. Maria in Cosmcdm seems imp