OCR Output AN. 187.] 435 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. father: he assured him withal, that he wouldgive him but ten talents; and that for the pre­sent to the king also. The son was irritatedat this; and threw Arion into prison. Butwhen Arion's wife had informed Cleopatra ofthis; with her entreaty, that she would re­buke the child for what he had done, (forArion was in great esteem with her;) Cleo­patra informed the king of it. And Ptolemysent for Hyrcanus, and told him, that hewondered, when he was sent to him by hisfather, that he had not yet come into his pre­sence, but had laid the steward in prison;and he gave order therefore that he shouldcome to him, and give an account of thereason of what he had done. And they re­port, that the answer he made to the king'smessenger was this: that "There was a lawof his that forbade a child that was born, totaste of the sacrifice, before he had been atthe temple, and sacrificed to God. Accord­ing to which way of reasoning he did nothimself come to him; in expectation of the Eresent he was to make to him, as to one whoad been his father's benefactor; and that hehad punished the slave for disobeying hiscommands:" "For," said he, " it matters notwhether a master be little or great, so thatunless we punish such as these, thou thyselfmayest expect to be despised by thy sub­jects." Upon hearing this answer, the kingburst into laughter, and wondered at thegreat soul of the child. When Arion was apprised that this was theking's disposition, and that he had no way tohelp himself; he gave the child a thousandtalents; and was liberated from prison. Soafter three days were over, Hyrcanus cameand saluted the king and queen. They sawhim with pleasure, and feasted him in anobliging manner; out of the respect they bareto his father. So he came to the merchants Erivately, and bought a hundred boys thatad learning, and were in the flower of theirage, each at a talent a piece; as also hebought a hundred maidens, each at the sameprice as the other. And when he was invitedto feast with the king among the principalmen of the country, he sat down the lowestof them all; because he was little regarded,as a child in age still; and this by those that S laced every one according to their dignity.fow when all those that sat with him had VOl.. I.—NOS. 37 & 38. lain the bones of the several parts on a heapbefore Hyrcanus; (for they had themselvestaken away the flesh belonging to them) tillthe table where he sat was filled full withthem, Trypho, who was the king's jester, andwas appointed for jokes and laughter at fes­tivals, was now asked by the guests that satat the table to expose him to laughter. Sohe stood by the king, and said, Dost thou notsee, my lord, the bones that lie by Hyrcanus?By this similitude thou mayest conjecture thathis father made all Syria as bare as he hathmade these bones." And the king laughingat what Trypho said,- and asking of Hyr­canus, " How he came to have so many bonesbefore him?" He replied, "Very rightfully,my lord. For they are dogs that eat theflesh, and the bones together; as these thyguests have done; (looking in the mean timeat those guests;) for there is nothing beforethem; but they are men that eat the flesh,and cast away the bones; as I, who am alsoa man, have now done." The king admiredthis answer, which was so wisely made; andbade them all make an acclamation, as amark of their approbation of his jest; whichwas truly a facetious one. On the next day Hyrcanus went to everyone of the king's friends, and of the menpowerful at court, and saluted them; but stillinquired of the servants what present theywould make the king on his son's birth-day?and when some said, that they would givetwelve talents, and that others of greaterdignity wotdd every one give according tothe quantity of their riches; he pretended tobe grieved, that he was not able to bring solarge a present; for that he had no more thanfive talents. And when the servants heardwhat he said, they told their masters; andthey rejoiced in this prospect that Josephwould be disapproved, and would make theking angry, by the smallness of his present.When the day came, the others, even thosethat brought the most, offered the king notabove twenty talents; but Hyrcanus gave toevery one of the hundred boys, and hundredmaidens that he had bought, a talent a piece,for them to carry; and introduced them, theboys to the king, and the maidens to Cleo­patra; every body wondering at the unex­pected richness of the presents, even theking and queen themselves. He also pre-4B