OCR Output 444 r DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP XLVI. were invaded by the great khan, who passed the Oxus atthe head of three or four hundred thousand Turks. Theimprudent Hormouz accepted their perfidious and for­midable aid; the cities of Khorasan or Bactriana werecommanded to open their gates; the march of the bar­barians towards the mountains of Hyrcania revealed thecorrespondence of the Turkish and Roman arms; andtheir union must have subverted the throne of the houseof Sassan. Bahrain °f I>ers'a had been lost by a king; it was saved by aa. d. 590. hero. After his revolt, Varanes or Bahram is stigma­tized by the son of Hormouz as an ungrateful slave : theproud and ambiguous reproach of despotism, since hewas truly descended from the ancient princes of Rei,kone of the seven families whose splendid, as well as sub­stantial prerogatives exalted them above the heads of thePersian nobility.' At the siege of Dara, the valour ofBahram was signalized under the eyes of Nushirvan,and both the father and son successively promoted himto the command of armies, the government of Media,and the superintendence of the palace. The popularprediction which marked him as the deliverer of Persia,might be inspired by his past victories and extraordinaryfigure: the epithet Giubin is expressive of the quality ofdry wood; he had the strength and stature of a giant,and his savage countenance was fancifully compared to nufacture; but in the next thousand years, many others issued from the same work­shop. k Ragae, or Rei, is mentioned in the apocryphal book of Tohitas already flourish­ing, seven hnndred years before Christ, under the Assyrian empire. Under the fo­reign names of Europus and Arsaeia, this city, five hundred stadia to the sonth ofthe Caspian gates, was successively embellished by the Macedonians and Parthiasis.(Strabo, lib. 11. p. 796.) Its grandeur and populonsness in the ninth century is ex­aggerated beyond the bounds of credihility ; but Rei has been since ruined by warsand the unwholesomeness of the air. Chardin, Voyage en Perse, tom. 1. p. 279,280. D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Oriental, p. 714. 1 Theophylact, lib. 3. 0, 18. The story of the seven Persians is told in the thirdbook of Herodotus; and their noble descendants are often mentioned, especially inthe fragments of Ctesias. Yet the independence of Otanes (Herodot. lib. 3. c. 83,84.) is hostile to the spirit of despotism, and it may not seem prohable that the sevenfamilies could survive the revolutions of eleven hundred years. They might, how­ever, be represented by the seven ministers ; (Brizzon, de Regno Persico, lib. 1.p. 190.) and some Persian nobles, like the kings of Pontus (Polyb. lib. 5. p. 540.)and Cappadocia, (Diodor. Sicul. lib. 31, tom. 2. p. 517.) might claim their descent■hom the bold companions of Darius. •■