OCR Output 148 LIVY. two thousand men ; many of whom, at the last, in at­tempting to make their way out, rushed into the veryflames. [A.U.C. 451. B.C. 301.] The two Marci,Livius Denter and iEmilius, succeeding to the con­sulship, war broke out again with the iEquaus, who,being highly displeased at the colony established with­in their territory, as if it were a fortress to keep themin awe, made an attempt with their whole force toseize it, but were repulsed by the colonists themselves.They caused however such an alarm at Rome, that toquell this insurrection, Caius Junius Bubulcus wasnominated dictator: for it was scarcely credible thatthe jEquans, after being reduced to such a degree ofweakness, should by themselves alone have venturedto engage in a war. The dictator taking the field withMarcus Titinius, master of the horse, in the first en­gagement, reduced the oEquans to submission; andreturning into the city in triumph on the eighth day,dedicated in the character of dictator the temple ofHealth, which he had vowed when consul, and con­tracted for when censor. 2. During this year a fleet of Grecians, under thecommand of Cleonymus, a Lacedaemonian, arrived onthe coast of Italy, and took Thuriae, a city in the ter­ritory of the Sallentines. Against this enemy the consuljEmilius was sent, who in one battle completely defeatedthem, and without farther opposition drove them onboard their ships. Thuriae was then restored to itsold inhabitants, and peace re-established in the coun­try of the Sallentines. In some annals I find thatJunius Bubulcus was sent dictator into that country,and that Cleonymus, without hazarding an engagementwith the Romans, retired out of Italy. He then sailedround the promontory of Brundusium, and steeringdown the middle of the Adriatic gulf, because hedreaded on the left hand the coasts of Italy destituteof harbors, and on the right the Illyrians, Liburnians,and Istrians, nations of savages, and noted in generalfor piracy, he passed on to the coasts of the Venetians.Here, having landed a small party to explore the