OCR Output 250 MAGXA GRAECIA. MAGNA GRAECIA. rising colony of Thurii at an early period of itsexistence (Polyaen- ii. 10); bat ii wis not till after400 b. c that their power assumed a formidableaspect tawards the Greeks in general. The terri­tory of Thurii was the first object of their hos­tilities, bat the other cities were not insensible totheir danger; and hence the general league of theItalian Greeks in u. c. 393, as already mentioned,was directed as much against the Lucanians asagainst Dionysius. Unfortunately, their arms metwith equal ill success in both quarters : and in». c. 3U0 the confederate forces were defeated bythe Lucaniaas with greit slaughter near I.aus.(Diod. xiv. 101, 102; Strain vi. p. 253.) Thatcity had already fallen into the hands of the in­vaders, who now pressed on towards the south, andseem to have spread themselves with great rapiditythroughout the whole of the Brutlian peninsula. Herethey l>ecame so formidable that the younger Dionysuswas compelled to abandon the policy of his father (whohad courted the alliance of the Lucanians, and evenrendered them active assistance), and turn his anusagainst them, though with little effect. A periodof great confusion and disorder appears to have en­sued, and the rise of the Bruttian people, whichtook place at this period (inc. 356), though it insotne measure hroko the power of the Lucanians,was so fur from giving any relief to the Greek citiesthat they soon found the Brutlians still more for­midable neighbours. The flourishing cities of Te-rina and Hipponium were conquered by the bar­barians (Diod, xvi. 15; Strab.vi. p. 256): Khegiumand Locri, though they maintained their nationality,suffered almost as severely from the oppressions andexactions of the younger Dionysius; while Crotona,long the most powerful city in this part of Italy,seems never to have recovered from the blow in­dicted on it by the elder despot of that name [Cro­tona], and was with difficulty able to defend itselffrom the repeated attacks of the Bruttians. (Diod.xix. 3, 10.) Meanwhile, the Lucanians had turned their armsagainst the more northerly cities on the Tarentinegulf. Here the Thuriana seem, as before, to haveborne the brunt of the attack; but at length Ta-rentum itself, which had hitherto stood aloof, andhad apparently not even joined in the league ofinc. 31)3, was compelled to lake up arms in its owndefence. The Taren tines could have Buffered com­paratively but little from the causes which had soseverely impaired the prosperity of the other citiesof Magna Graccia; and Taren turn was undoubtedlyat this time the most opulent and powerful of theGreek cities in Italy. But its citizens were alreadyenervated by indolence and luxury; and when theyfound themselves threatened by the forces of theLucanians, combined with their old enemies theMessapians, tiifjr mistrusted their own resources,and applied to their parent city of Sparta for assist­ance. Archidamus, king of Sparta, accepted theinvitation, and proceeded to Italy with a consider­able force, where he apjears to have carried on thewar for wane years, but was finally defeated andslain in a battle near Munduria, in c. 338. (Diod.xvi. 63, 88.) Oidy a few years afterwards, n. c.332, Alexander king of Kpirus waa invited over toItaly for the tame purpose. The history of hisexpedition is, unfortunately, very impex ectly knownto us; though it ts clear lltat his military operationswere attended witli much success, and mu>t haveexercised considerable influence upon the fortunes of the Greek cities. Though invited, in the first in­stance, by the Taren tinea, he subsequently quarrelled with tliat people, and even turned his anus arainstthem, and took Heraclea, their colony and dependency.At the same time he defeated the combined f«resof the Lucanians and Bruttians in several succe**:v«battles, retook Terina, Consentia, and several othertowns, and penetrated into the heart of Bnstzhxm,where he was slain by a Lucanian exile, who wasserving in his own army, B.C. 326. (Lit. TiiL 17,24; Justin, xii. 2.) After his death, the wars between the Tarentineaand Lucanians appear to have continued with littleintermission; though we have no further accountof them till the year 303 B. c, when the formerpeople again sued to Sparta for assistance, and Cleo-nymus, the uncle of the Spartan king, repaired toTarentum with a large mercenary force. So formid­able did this armament appear that both the xfes-sa plans and Lucanians were speedily induced to an*for peace; while Mctapontum, which, for somereason or other, had oppo?*d the views of CloonyTrras,was reduced by force of arm*. (Diod. xx, 104.)The Spartan prince, however, soon alienated all hisallies by his luxury and rapacity, and quitted Italythe object of universal contempt. We have very little information as to the wars ofAgaihoclea in Bruttium; though we learn tliat bemade himself master of Hipponium and CruUna,and occupied the latter city with a garrison, h isevident, therefore, that his designs were directed aamuch against the Greek cities as their harbarUnneighbours; and the alliance which lie concluded atthe same time with the lapygians a.id I'eucetiai-jcould only have l>een with a view to the humiliationof Tarentum. (Diod. xxi. 2,8.) His ambitious de­signs in this quarter were interrupted by his dent*,b. c. 289. Only a few years later than this took place thecelebrated expedition of Pyrrhus to Italy (m. c. 281— 274), which marks a conspicuous era in the his­tory of Magna (Jraecia. Shortly before that event,the Thurians, finding themselves liard pressed andtheir city U*elf besieged by the Lucanians, ltad con­cluded an alliance with the Romans, who raised thesiege and defeated the assailants, n. «*. 282. (Ap|**n,S<tmn. 7; Val. Mix. i. 8. § 6.) This was the firstoccasion that brought the Itouian power down to theshores of the Tarentine gulf; and here they almostimmediately after came into collision with the Tareo-tines themselves. [Takknti'si.] That people, er«-Bcious of their inability to reaist the power of thesepew enemies, now invoked the assistance of PTrrhBe,king of Kpirus, at the same time that tbey ct«-eluded a league with the Lucaniam and Saiimitr*,so long the inveterate enemies of Id-rne. Heme, whenPyrrhus landed in Italy, he found himself Mippnrte*!at the same time by all the remaining Greek rinksin that country, as well as by the barbarian nat-un*with whom they had been so long at war. It u an-neceiMtry to enter into a detailed account of hatcampaigns: notwithstanding hia first successes, hisalliance proved of no real advantage to the Greeks,while his viait to Sicily in a. c 278, and his finaldeparture in B.C. 274, left them at (be merry of thevictorious Komans. Tarentum itself was token bythe consuls in B.C. 272. Crotona and Lorn wvipreviously fallen into the hands of the Komans;while Khegium, which was held by a rrvultrd bodjof Camjiuuiun troop*, originally placed there as a gar­rison, was finally reduced to subjection in a, c. a*7L