OCR Output 1030 SPARTA. SPARTA. in the neighbourhood of the temple of Poseidon, andconsequently must not he confounded with theDromu*, The Tbebans did not advance further, forthey were driven back by a body of picked hopUtes,whom Agesilaua hud placed in ambush in thesanctuary of the Tjmdaridae (Dioscuri), which welikewise know from Pausanias was in the Pkoebaeum,(Xen. Mell.vl 5. §§ 31, 32.) In B.C. 362 Epa-minondas made a daring attempt to surprise Sparta,and actually penetrated into the market-place; buttlie Spartans baring received intelligence of his ap­proach, the city had been put into a state of de­fence, and Kpamiuondas again withdrew withoutventuring upon an assault. (Xen. Hell. vii. 5. 11 —U; Polyb. is. 6; Diod xv. 83.) Inb. c. 218 Philip unexpectedly entered Laconia,descended the vale of the Eurotas by the left bank oftho river, passing by Sparta, and then laid wastethe whole country as far as Taenartu and Males.Lycurgus, the Spartan kin^, resolved to intercepthim on his return: he occupied the heights of theMenelaium with a body of 2000 men, ordered theremaining forces of Sparta to be ready to take uptheir position between the city and the western bankof the river, and at the same time, by means of adam, laid the low ground in that part under water. Philip, however, contrary to the cxppctavx L*.curgus, stormed the Menelaium, sodwhole army safely through the past, sad eatwo stadia above the city. (Pofrb. v. 11In it. c. 195 Quinctios FLsnunioos attackedbecause Xabis, the tyrant of the city, nfaadobedience to the terms which the Btfcia pimposed. With an army of 50,000 ma fmmassaulted the city on its three undefeDiJed ttPhcebaeum, Dictynnaeum, and Heptagesisa.forced his way into the city, and after orerothe resistance which he met with in tat 1ways at the entrance of tbe city, tnarehaa akafbroad road (probably the Aphetais) lea&izt tocitadel and the surrounding heights.Xabis set fire to the buildings nearest totaiwalls, which compelled the Romans tothe main object of Klamininus hid beenfor three days afterwards Xabis sent fc>to implore peace. (Liv. xxxiv. 38, 33.)position of the Phoebaenm has been ai-raiyplained. The Dictynnaeum was so cafcitemple of Artemis Dictynna, whichscribes as situated at the end of tbeto the walls of the city (iii. 12. § 8).that the name of the village of KaJagomi HAP OI SrARTA AND ITS ENVIRONS, Acropnli*,M. laeorium.Hit! Colon*.Now Sparta.Thc.it re.Agora. Amphitheatre or Odeum.Bridge acron the BurotaiVillaga of Magula.Village of Psycht&i.Village of Kulagonid. 8. Temple of Menetaus.ana. Circuit of Wall*.AO. CanaK c c. The Tiasa. River of 3*/ ii. Street Aphetait. ce. The Hjarinthinn Road. //. Hollow Way leading fmw the Bndgc 41 tat to MngiiUi and Mulrd.pp. Modern Road./:/.. The PandelHmcma.