OCR Output 86 [A.U.C. 769. THE ANNALS country, and the wretched condition to which theywere reduced, were all as nothing compared to thisinsulting memorial. Preparing but a little before toabandon their habitations, and seek new settlementsbeyond the Elbe, they changed their minds, and oncemore resolved to try the hazard of a battle. The no­bles and the populace, the old and the young, allranks and classes of men appeared in arms. Theypursued the Romans on their march; they harassedthe rear, and often throw them into disorder. Re­solved at length to risk a battle, they chose for thatpurpose a narrow and swampy plain, inclosed on oneside by a river, and on the other by a thick wood, atthe back of which lay a deep morass. A rampart,formerly thrown up by the Angrivarians, as a bar­rier between themselves and the Cheruscans, inclosedone side of the fen. On this spot the barbarians sta­tioned their infantry. Their cavalry lay in ambushin the woods, with intent, as soon as the Romans ad­vanced, to attack them by surprise, and cut off therear of the army. XX. Germanicus had intelligence of all that pass­ed. Their stations, their councils of war, their publicdebates, their secret resolutions were all discovered;and their own devices were turned against themselves.The command of the horse was given to Seius Tu-bero, with orders to form on the open plain. The in­fantry was so disposed that by an easy pass one divi­sion might penetrate into the woods, while the othercarried the rampart by assault. Whatever was diffi­cult or arduous the general reserved for himself,leaving all slighter operations to his officers. On thelevel plain the cavalry bore down all before them;but the rampart was not easily taken. The soldierswho advanced to the attack were as much exposed tothe darts of the enemy, as if they had been beforethe, walls of a regular fortification. Germanicus sawthe disadvantage. Ho drew off the legions; and or­dered the engineers and slingers to play upon theworks, in order to drive the barbarians from theirpost. A volley of darts was discharged from the bat­tering machines with such incessant fury, that the