OCR Output an. 1052.] 277 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and congratulated him on the present happystate of affairs. Upon which Solomon senthim an epistle, the contents of which were asfollows: SOLOMON TO KING HIRAM. "Know* thou that my father would havebuilt a temple to God; but was hindered bywars and continual expeditions; for he didnot leave off to overthrow his enemies, till hemade them all subject to tribute. But I givethanks to God for the peace I at presentenjoy; and on that account I am at leisure,and design to build a house to God; ForGod foretold to my father that such a build­ing should be erected by me. Wherefore Idesire thee to send some of thy subjects withmine to mount Lebanon, to cut down timber;for the Sidonians are more skilful than ourpeople in cutting of wood. As for wages tothe hewers of wood, I will pay whatever pricethou shalt determine." When Hiram had read this epistle, he was pleased with it; and wrote back this answerto Solomon:— KING HIRAM TO KING SOLOMON. "It is fit to bless God, that he hath com­mitted thy father's government to thee, whoart a wise man, and endowed with all virtues.As for myself, I rejoice at the condition thouart in; and will be subservient to thee in allthat thou sendest to me about. For when mysubjects have cut down many and large treesof cedar, and cypress wood, I will send themto sea, and will order my subjects to makefloats of them, and to sail to what placesoever of thy country thou shalt desire, andleave them there. After which thy subjectsmay carry them to Jerusalem. But do thoutake care to procure us corn for this timber;which we stand in need of, because we in­habit an island."f The copies of these epistles remain at thisday, and are preserved not only in our booksbut among the Tyrians also; insomuch that * These epistles of Solomon and Hiram are those in1 Kings v. 3—9. and as enlarged in 2 Chron. ii. 2—16.but here given us by Josephus in his own words. Theyare also extant in Eusebius's Praeparat. Evangel. IX. 33.but greatly disguised by Eupolemus, from whom Eusebiushad those copies. Which Eupolemus, for a heathen,knew a considerable deal of Jewish affairs; though in avery imperfect manner. Nor are his other accounts ofJewish history to be compared with the more accurateones in Josephus. t What Josephus here puts into his copy of Hiram'sepistle to Solomon, and repeats afterwards, chap. v. thatTyre was now an island, is not in any of the three othercopies, that in the Kings, that in the Chronicles, or thatin Eusebius, out of Eupolemus. Nor is it any other, Isuppose, than his own conjectural paraphrase. For whenI, many years ago, inquired into this matter, I found theitate of this famous city, and of the island whereupon itstood, to have been different at very different times; in­somuch that the accurate Mr. Reland, who much labouredat it, was not able to clear the difficulties thereto relating.See his Palestina, tom. ii. page 1046—1056. The resultof my inquiries into this matter is in my Essay on the OldTest. Append, page 226, 227, and, with the addition ofsome later improvements, stands thus:—that the besttetimonies hereto relating imply, that Palaetyras, or oldestTyre, was no other than that most ancient smaller fort orcity Tyre, situate on the continent, and mentioned Josh.xix. 29. out of which the Canaanite or Phoenician inha­bitants were driven into a large island, that lay not far offin the sea, by Joshua; that this island was then joined tothe continent at the present remains of Palastyrus, by aneck of land, over against Solomon's cisterns, still socalled; and the city's fresh water probably was carriedalong in pipes by that neck of land, and that this islandwas therefore, in strictness, no other than a peninsula; having villages in its fields, Ezek. xxvi. 6. and a wall aboutit, Amos i. 10. and the city was not of so great reputationas Sidon for some ages; that it was attacked both by seaand land by Salmanassar, as Josephus informs us out ofMenander, IX. 14. and came to be the metropolis of Phoe­nicia, and was afterwards taken and destroyed by Nebu­chadnezzar, according to the numerous Scripture Prophe­cies thereto relating, Isa. xxiii. Jer. xxv. 22.—xxvii. 3.—xlvii. 4. Ezek. xxvi. xxvii. xxviii. and that there wereremains of that destruction in heathen authors also, extantin the days of Josephus, though now lost, X. 11. thatseventy years after that destruction by Nebuchadnezzar,this city was in some measure revived and rebuilt,Isa. xxiii. 17, 18. but that, as the prophet Ezekiel hadforetold, Isa. xxvi. 3, 4, 5, 14. xxvii. 34. the sea arosehigher than before, till at last it overflowed, not only theneck of land, but the main island or peninsula itself, anddestroyed that old and famous city for ever; that how­ever there still remained an adjoining smaller island, onceconnected to old Tyre itself by Hiram, which was after­ward inhabited; to which Alexander the Great, with in­credible pains, raised a new bank or causeway, and thatit plainly appears from Mr. Maundrell, a most authenticeye witness, that the old large and famous city, on theoriginal large island, is laid now so generally under water,that scarcely more than forty acres of it, or rather of thatadjoining small island, remain at this day, so that perhapsnot above the hundredth part of the first island and city isnow above water. See Reland, page 1049, 1052. MarshChron. page 539, and Maundrell's Travels, page 50.This was foretold in the prophecies of Ezekiel; andaccording to them, as Mr. Maundrell distinctly observes,these poor remains of Old Tyre are now become like thetop of a rock, a place for the spreading of nets in the midstof the sea. Nor does Ovid pretend that the proper islandon which Old Tyre stood is now visible. 3E2