OCR Output CHAP. 36. ROMAN HISTORY. 69 tores minorum gentium: a party, no doubt, that wouldcontinue firmly attached to the prince, by whose favourthey were raised to that dignity. The first that felt the weight of his resentment, was the"Latins. From them he took Appiolse by storm; and,having returned with much more booty than couki havebeen expected, from an expedition so inconsiderable, he. celebrated his games at an expence, and with a magni­ficence, above any of his predecessors. The place forthe Circus, now called Maximus, was then first markedout, and divisions made for the senators and knights,where they might erect scaffolds for their accommoda­tion during the games. These scaffolds were called Fori,and supported by forked posts, twelve feet high. Thegames consisted chiefly in horses, and boxers, broughtfrom Etruria; and, from that period, have continued tobe celebrated every year, being sometimes called theRoman, and sometimes the great games. To privatefamilies also the prince let out the ground about the Fo­rum, for shops and piazzas. CHAP. XXXVI. Tarquin makes war with the Sabines. "' . . . J. JLE was making preparations for raising a stone vailround the city; but a war with the Sabines interruptedhis designs. The incursion was so unexpected, that be­fore the Roman army could march out to stop their pro­gress, they had crossed the Anio. ' Wherefore, great wasthe alarm at Rome, and in the first engagement, thoughnumbers fell on both sides, the victory was disputed. After this battle, the enemy returned to their camp,and the Romans got time to recruit. Tarquin, sensiblethat his army suffered much for want of horse, resolved'to add other centuries to the Ramnenses, Titienses, andLuceres, and to distinguish them by his own name. As Romulus had instituted this order by augury, AttusNayiu?, at that time much celebrated for his skill in theart, contended that no alteration, or new appointmentcould be made, without the approbation of the birds.At this, the king flew in a passion, and in ridicule of the