OCR Output LYCIA. LYCIA. 225 its rotes; tuition and other public duties wereregulated on the same principle. In former times,the deputies constitu: ing the congress had also de­cided upon peace, war, and alliances; but this ofcourse ceased when Lycia acknowledged the supre­macy of Rome. This happy constitution lasteduntil the time of the emperor Claudius, whenLvcia became- a Roman province, as is mentionedbelow. (Strab. xiv. p. 664, &c.) The laws andcustoms of the Lycians arc said by Herodotus tohive been partly Carian and partly Cretan; but inone point they differed from all other men, for theyderived their names from their mothers and notfrom their fathers, and when any one was asked togive an account of his parentage, he enumerated hismother, grandmother, great grandmother, &c, (Herod,i. 173.) Herudotus (vii. 92), in describing theirarmour, mentions in particular, hats with plumes,preaves, short swords, and sickles. Respecting thereligion of the Lycians nothing is known, exceptthat they worshipped Apollo, especially at Patara;but nhether tliis was the Greek Apollo, or a Lyciangod identified with him, cannot be said with cer­tainty; though the former is more probable, if weattach any value to the story of Patarus. [jWct ofB'ttj>jr. s. t\] This would show that the Greeks ofA^ia Minor exercised considerable influence uponthe Lycians at a very early period. 5. Literature and the A rts. — Although we haredo mention of any works in the Lycian language, itcannot be doubted that the Lycians either had, orat least might have had, a literature, as they had apeculiar alphabet of their own, and made frequentim of it iu inscriptions. The mere fact, however,that many of these inscriptions are engraven in twolanguages, the Lycian and Greek, shows that thelitter language had become so familiar to the peoplethat it was thought desirable, or even necessary, toemploy it along with the vernacular in public decreesand laws about and after the time of the Persianwars; and it must have been this circumstance thatstopped or prevented the development of a nationalliterature in Lvcia. The influence of Greek litera­ture is also attested by the theatres which existedin almost every town, and in which Greek playsnmst hare been performed, and have been under­stood and enjoyed by the people. In the arts ofsculpture and architecture, the Lycians attained a<!«»rt* of perfection but little inferior to that of theGreeks. Their temples and tombs abound in thefinest sculptures, representing mythological subjects,or events of their own military history. Theirarchitecture, especially that of their tombs andharcophagi. has quite a peculiar character, so much» that travellers are thereby enabled to distinguishwhrther any given place is really Lycian or not.These sarcophagi are surmounted by a structurewith painted arches, and richly decorated with sculp­tors. One of these has been brought to this countryby Sir C. Fellows, and may now be seen in thebViti&h Museum. The entrances of the numerouslumbs cut in the faces of lofty rocks are formed inthe same way, presenting at the top a pointed arch,wbich has led Sir C. Fellows to compare them toGothic or Elizabethan architecture. If we examinethe remains of their towns, as figured in the worksof SirC. Fellows, Texier, and Forbes and Spratt, wecannot avoid coming to the conclusion that, in all thearts of civilised life, the Lycians, though barbarians,were Utile interior to the Greeks. 6. llutory.—Lvcia and the Lycians act rather a VOL. II. prominent part in the Homeric account of the TrojanWar, where they are described as the allies of theTrojans. Sarpedon and Glaucus, are the twoLycian heroes in the war; but the poet was familiaralso with the earlier legends of Lycia,—as that aboutBellerophon, which he introduces into the parleybetween Glaucus and Diomede. Pandarus, anotherhero on the side of the Trojans, came from a districtabout the river Aesepus, which was likewise calledLycia, and which was supposed by the ancient com­mentators to have been peopled by colonists fromLycia, the subject of this article (//. ii. 824, &c, iv.91, v. 105; comp. Strab. xii. p. 572, xiii. p. 585);but both history and tradition are silent as to thetime when, and the circumstances under which,Lycians settled in Troas. During the period fromthe Trojan times down to the Lydian conquestsunder Croesus, the Lycians are not mentioned inhistory ; but that conqueror, who was successful inall other parts of Asia Minor, failed in his attemptsnpon the Lycians and Cilicians. (Herod, i. 28.)When Cyrus overthrew the Lydian monarchy, andhis genera] Harpagus invaded the plain of theXanthus, the Lycians offered a determined resis­tance; but when, in the end, they found theirsituation hopeless, the men of Xanthus assembled inthe citadel their women, children, slaves, and trea­sures, and then set fire to it. They themselves thenrenewed the fight against the enemy, but all perished,except a few Xanthians who happened to be absentduring the battle. [Xanthus.] Lycia thus becamea part of the Persian monarchy, but, like all Per­sian provinces, retained its own constitution, beingobliged only to pay tribute and furnish its contin­gents to the Persian army. The Lycians joined inthe revolt of the Asiatic Greeks, but afterwards werereduced, and Darius made the country a part of hisfirst satrapy(Herod.iii.90); thefact that the Lyciansfurnished fifty ships to the fleet of Xerxes (Herod, vii.92) shows.that they still continued to be a prosperousand powerful people. Their armour on that occasionis described by Herodotus, and was the same as thatnoticed above. During the Peloponnesian War theLycians are not mentioned; but as Rhodes was tri­butary to Athens, and as contributions were oftenlevied as far as Aspendus, it is not improbable thatLycia may have been compelled to pay similar con­tributions. Alexander traversed a part of thecountry on his march from Caria into Pisidia andPhrygia, and reduced it under his sway. TheLycians on that occasion offered little or no resist­ance to the young conqueror; the cities of Xanthus,Pinara, Patara, and about thirty other smaller towns,surrendered to him without a blow. (Arrian, Anab.i. 24.) In the division of the Macedonian empire,Lycia successively came under the dominion of thePtolemies and the Seleucidae; and then, after a briefinterval, during which the Lycians enjoyed theirfull freedom, they fell under the dominion of Rome:for after the defeat of Antiochus the Great, Lyciawas ceded by the Roman senate to the Rhodians;but the Lycians, indignant at being considered thesubjects of the islanders, and being secretly sup­ported by Eumenes, resisted the Rhodian authoritiesby force of arms. In this contest they were over­powered; but the Romans, displeased with the Rho­dians for their conduct in the Macedonian War,interfered, and restored the Lycians to independence.(Polyb. xxii. 7, xxiii. 3, xxvi. 7, xxx. 5; Lir. xlv.25; Appian, Mithr. 61, &c, Sgr. 44.) It wasapparently during the period which now followed, Q