OCR Output 5i THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. had not yet been seen in Italy, the cause of thisXIv' amazing desolation, which is recorded in the laws, can be ascribed only to the administration of theRoman emperors. Either from design or from accident, the modea capitation. of assessment seemed to unite the substance of aland-tax with the forms of a capitation. The re­turns which were sent of every province or districtexpressed the number of tributary subjects, and theamount of the public impositions. The latter ofthese sums was divided by the former; and the esti­mate, that such a province contained so many capita,or heads of tribute, and that each head was ratedat such a price, was universally received, not onlyin the popular, but even in the legal computation.The value of a tributary head must have varied, ac­cording to many accidental, or at least fluctuatingcircumstances: but some knowledge has been pre­served of a very curious fact, the more important,since it relates to one of the richest provinces of theRoman empire, and which now flourishes as themost splendid of the European kingdoms. The ra­pacious ministers of Constantius had exhausted thewealth of Gaul, by exacting twenty-five pieces ofgold for the annual tribute of every head. The hu­mane policy of his successor reduced the capitationto seven pieces. A moderate proportion betweenthese opposite extremes of extravagant oppressionand of transient indulgence, may therefore be fixedat sixteen pieces of gold, or about nine pounds ster­ling, the common standard perhaps of the impositionsof Gaul *. But this calculation, or rather indeedthe facts from whence it is deduced, cannot fail ofsuggesting two difficulties to a thinking mind, who • In the calculation of any sum of money under Constantine and his successors,we need only refer to the excellent discourse of Mr. Greaves on the Denarius.From him we may compute the Roman pound of gold, the usual method ofreckoning large sums, at forty pounds sterling, and we may fix the currency of.the aureus at somewhat more than eleven shillings.