OCR Output AW. 205 1106.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to him, and when he should aim to get himgreat glory by undertaking a thing so dan­gerous and incredible, he would immediatelyset about it, and so perish by the Philistines;and his designs about him would succeed tohis mind, as he should be freed from him, andget him slain, not by himself, but by anotherman. So he gave order to his servants to tryhow David would relish this proposal of mar­rying the damsel. Accordingly they began tosay to him, that king Saul loved him, as wellas did all the people; and that he was de­sirous of his affinity by marriage of thisdamsel. To which he gave this answer,"Seemeth it to you a light thing to be madethe king's son-in-law? it does not seem to me:especially when I am one of a family that islow, and without any glory or honour." Nowwhen Saul was informed by his servants whatanswer David had made; he said, " Tell him,that I do not want any money, nor dowryfrom him; which would be rather to set mydaughter to sale, than to give her in mar­riage; but I desire only such a son-in-lawas hath in him fortitude, and all other kindsof virtue; of which I perceive David is pos­sessed, and my desire is to receive of him, onaccount of his marrying my daughter, neithergold, nor silver, nor that he should bring suchwealth out of his father's house; but onlysome revenge on the Philistines, and indeedsix hundred of their heads; than which amore desirable, or a more glorious presentcould not be brought me; and I had muchrather obtain this, than any of the accustomeddowries for my daughter: viz. that she shouldbe married to a man of that character, andto one who had a testimony as having con­quered his enemies." When these words of Saul were brought toDavid, he was pleased with them; and sup­posed that Saul was really desirous of thisaffinity with him. So that without bearing todeliberate any longer, or casting about in hismind whether what was proposed was pos­sible, or was difficult or not; he and his com­panions immediately set upon the enemy, andwent about doing what was proposed as thecondition of the marriage. Accordingly, be­cause it was God who made all things easyand possible to David, he slew many of thePhilistines, and cut off the heads of six hun­dred of them; and came to the king, and by shewing him these heads of the Philistines,required that he might have his daughter inmarriage. Accordingly, Saul having no wayof getting off his engagements; as thinking ita base thing either to seem a liar when hepromised him this marriage, or to appear tohave acted treacherously by him in puttinghim upon what was in a manner impossible,in order to have him slain; he gave him hisdaughter Michal in marriage.* CHAP. XI. op david's deliverance from saul's machinations, bythe affection of jonathan, and the contrivanceof michal. SAUL was not disposed to persevere longin the state wherein he was; for when hesaw that David was in great esteem both withGod, and with the multitude, he was afraid.And being not able to conceal his fear, con­cerning his kingdom and his life, to be de­prived of either of which was a very greatcalamity; he resolved to have David slain,and commanded his son Jonathan, and hismost faithful servants to kill him. But Jona­than wondered at his father's change with re­lation to David, that it should be made to sogreat a degree, from shewing him no smallgood will, to contrive how to have him killed.Now because he loved the young man, andreverenced him for his virtue, he informedhim of the secret charge his father had given;and what was his intentions concerning him.However, he advised him to take care, andbe absent the next day; for that he wouldsalute his father; and, if he met with a favour­able opportunity, he would discourse withhim about him, and learn the cause of hisdisgust, and shew how little ground there wasfor it, and that for it he ought not to kill aman that had done so many good things forthe multitude, and had been a benefactor tohimself; on account of which he ought inreason to obtain pardon, had he been guiltyof the greatest crimes. He also promised toinform him of Saul's resolution. AccordinglyDavid complied with such advantageous ad­vice, and kept himself out of the king's sightOn the next day Jonathan came to Saul, assoon as he saw him in a cheerful disposition, * 1 Sam. xviii. 27. Tt2