OCR Output LEMOVICES. 15? LEONTES mentioned by Pliny; and Dr. Hunt thinks that theyare probably those of the citadel of Uephaestias. The chief production of the bland, was a redearth called terra Lcmnia or sigillata, which wasemployed by the ancient physicians as a remedy forwounds and the bites of serpents; and which is stillmuch valued by the Turks and Greeks for its sup­posed medicinal virtues. It is dug out of a hill,made into small balls, and stamped with a seal con­taining Arabic characters. The ordinary modern name of the island, is Stali-mene (tls ray Atfjayov), though it is also called byits ancient name. There were several small islands near Lemnos, ofwhich the most celebrated was Ciikyse (Xpva-tj),where Philoctetes was said to have been aban­doned by the Greeks. According to Pausanias, thisUiand was afterwards swallowed up by the sea, and»no:her appeared in its stead, to which the name offiiera was siven. (Eustath ad Horn. II. ii. p. 330;Appian. Mitkr. 77; Paus. viii. 33. §4.) (Rhode. Res Lentmeaej VratisL 1829; Hunt, inWalpoles Travels, p. 54, seq.) COW OF HEPHAESTUS IN LEMNOS. LEMOVICES(Af/i&uccs,Strab. p.190; AfMoufcoi,PtoL ii. 7. § 10), a Gallic people who were boundedbj the Arverni on the east, the Bituriges Cubi andthe lactones on the north, and the Santones on thewert. Their chief town was Augustoritum orL'uhogts. [Augi-stokitum.] The diocese of Li-tn>»j<4, comprehending the diocese of Tulle, whichbaa been separated from it, represents the limits ofthe Lemorices; but the diocese of Limoges extendssomewhat beyond the limits of the old province ofLimousin, which derives its name from the Lemo­vices, and into that province which was called LaMarcke. An inscription in Gruter,found at Rancon,hi the diocese of Limoges, proves that there wasincluded in the territory of the Lemovices a peoplenx-ned Andecainuieii.tes; and another Gallic inscrip-ti'.<i shows that Mars was called Camulus. Camu-b^enus was a Gallic name (Caes. B. G. vii. 59, 62.) Cawar (B. O. vii. 4) enumerates the Lemo­vices among the peoples whom Yercingetorix stirredap against the Romans in b. c. 52: they arc placedin th* text between the Aulerci and Andes. TheUawrices sent 10,(X)O men to assist their coun­trymen at the siege of Alesia (B. G. vii. 75)But in the same: chapter (vii. 75) the Lemovicesan again mentioned: "univcrsis civitatibus quaeOceanum attingnnt quae^ue eorum consuetudiue Ar-a-Ticae appellant ur, quo sunt in numero Curioso-li>*, li«loni"i>. Ainbibari, Caletes, Osismi, Lemovices,\«ifti. Unelli, sex millia." Here the Lemovices areplaced in a different position, and are one of theArnwric States. [Armoimcak Civtt/atks.] Somecritics erase the name Lemovices from Caesar's text;Ut there is good authority for it. Davis remarks(Caea. Ondendorp, i. p. 427), that all the MSS.(ktinwn to him) have the reading Lemovices, andthat it occurs also in the Greek translation. He*1m observes, that as there were three Aulerci ! An.Kiiei], so there might he two Lemovices; and we may add that there were two Bituriges, Bi­turiges Cubi and Bituriges Vivian; and VolcaeArecoinici and Volcae Tectosages. If the text ofCaesar then is right, there were Armoric Lemovicesas well as the Lemovices of the Limousin; and wemust either keep the name as it is, or erase it. Theemendation of some critics, adopted by D'Anville,restson no foundation. Walckenaer finds in the districtwhich he assigns to the Lemovices Armoricani, aplace named La Limousiniere, in thearrondissementof Nantes, between Mackecoul, Nantes and Saint-I^eger; and he considers this an additional proofin favour of a conjecture about the text of Ptolemyin the matter of the Lemovices; as to which con­jecture his own remarks may be read. (Geog. &c.des Gaules, vol. i. p. 369.) [G. L] LEMO'VII, a German tribe, mentioned by Tacitus(Germ. 43) as living with the Rugii on the coast ofthe Ocean, that is, the Baltic Sea. Tacitus men­tions three peculiarities of this and the other tribesin* those districts (the modern Pommerania),—their round shields, short swords, and obedience to­wards their chiefs. (Comp. Zeuss, die Denfsehentp. 155.) [L. S.] LE'NTIA (Lim), a small place in Noricum onthe Danube, on the road from Laureacum. Ac­cording to the Notitia Imperii, from which alone wolearn anything about this place, it appears that aprefect of the Legio Italiea, and a body of horsearchers, were stationed there. (Comp. Gruter,Inscript. p. 541. 10; Muchar, Noricum, i. p.284.) [L.S.] LENTIENSES, the southernmost branch of theAlemanni, which occupied both the northern andsouthern borders of the Lacus Brigantinus. Theymade repeated inroads into the province (if Rhaetia,but were defeated by the emperor Constantius.(Amm. Marc. xv. 4, xxxi. 10; Zeuss, die Deutschen,p. 309, foil) [L. S.] LE'NTULAE or LE'NTOLAE, a place in UpperPannonia, on the principal highroad leading throughthat country, and 32 Botnan miles to the south-eastof Jovia. (ft. Ant. p. 130; It. UUros. p. 562;Geogr. Rav. iv. 19.) Ptolemy (ii. 15. § 5) men­tions a town \evTovZov in the same neighbourhood,whicli is perhaps only a slip for AeVrouAuv. Someidentify the place with the modern Bertzentze, andothers with Lrttichany. [L. S.] LEO FLUVIUS. [Leontks.] LEON (Ae'tof &Kpa.) 1. A point on the S. coastof Crete, now Punta di Liomla. (Ptol. iii. 17. § 4;Hock, Kreta, vol. i. pp. 394,413.) [E. B. J.] 2. A promontory of Kuboea, S. of Eretria, onthe koA*j aKT-fi. (Ptol. iii. 15. § 24.) 3. A place on the E. coast of Sicily, near Syra­cuse, where both the Athenians and Romans landedwhen they were going to attack that city. (Time.vi. 97; Liv. xxiv. 39.) [Syuacusae.] LE0X1CA. [Edktani.] LEONTES (A«oftos trordymv inSoKai), a river ofPhoenicia, placed by Ptolemy between Berytus andSidon (v. 15, p. 137); consistently with whichnotice Strabo places Leontopolis between the sametwo towns, the distance between which he states at400 stadia. He mentions no river of this name,but the Tamyras (6 To^upas irorau,6s), the grove ofAesculapius, and Leontopolis, whicli would doubtlesscorrespond with the Lion river of Ptolemy; for it isobviously an error of Pliny to place "Leontos oppi-dum ° between ''Berytus" and "Flu men Lycos"(v. 20). Now, as the Tamyras of Strabo is clearly