OCR Output B. II. 159 YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. adapted the interpretation to what they now suffered.—But inmy sentiments, should they ever again be engaged in a Doricwar, and a famine happen at the same time, they will have re­course with equal probability to the other interpretation. Itwas further remembered by those who knew of the oracle givento the Lacedaemonians, that when they inquired of the God," whether they should engage in this war," his answer was,that—" if they carried it on with all their strength, they should" be victorious, and he himself would fight on their side ;"—and therefore they concluded that what now befel was the com­pletion of the oracle. The pestilence broke out immediately upon the irruption of the Peloponnesians, and never extendeditself to Peloponnesus, a circumstance which ought to be re­lated. It raged the most, and for the longest time in Athens,but afterwards spread into the other towns, especially the mostpopulous.—And this is an exact account of the plague. The Peloponnesians, after they had ravaged the inland parts,extended their devastations to those which are called TheCoast, as far as Mount Laurium*, where the Athenians hadsilver-mines. And here they first ravaged the part whichlooks towards Peloponnesus, and afterwards that which liestowards Euboea and Andros. But Pericles, who was then inthe command, persisted in the same opinion as before, in theformer incursion, that " the Athenians ought not to march outagainst them." Yet, whilst the enemy was up in the country,before they had advanced as far as the coast, he had equippeda fleet of a hundred ships to invade Peloponnesus ; and whenevery thing was ready, he put to seaf. On board these ships • The silver-mines at Laurium originally belonged to private persons, butwere united to the public domain by Themistocles. A great number ofslaves were employed in working them, and the produce paid amply forall the labour bestowed upon them- Whether the state was much enrichedby them is a question ; the undertakers and proprietors of the slaves whowrought them drew great wealth from them, as we are told by Xenophonin his treatise of revenue. t Plutarch relates in the life of Pericles that on this occasion, when allwus ready, " when the f >rces were shipped, and Pericles himself was jus'