OCR Output 128 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. was deposited in front of it; the senate, as if surprised,appeared en masse at the door in order to view the deadbody, and then retired to determine what should be done.The leaders of the democracy had gone from the Capitol totheir houses; Marcus Flaccus had spent the night in pre足paring for the war in the streets, while Gracchus apparentlydisdained to strive with destiny. Next morning, whenthey learned the preparations made by their opponents atthe Capitol and the Forum, both proceeded to the Aventine,the old stronghold of the popular party in the strugglesbetween the patricians and the plebeians. Gracchus wentthither silent and unarmed; Flaccus called the slaves toarms and entrenched himself in the temple of Diana, whilehe at the same time sent his younger son Quintus to theenemy's camp, in order if possible to arrange a compromise.The latter returned with the announcement that the aris足tocracy demanded unconditional surrender; at the sametime he brought a summons from the senate to Gracchusand Flaccus to appear before it and to answer for theirviolation of the majesty of the tribunes. Gracchus wishedto comply with the summons, but Flaccus prevented himfrom doing so, and repeated the equally weak and mistakenattempt to move such antagonists to a compromise. Wheninstead of the two cited leaders the young Quintus Flaccusonce more presented himself alone, the consul treated theirrefusal to appear as the beginning of open insurrectionagainst the government; he ordered the messenger to bearrested and gave the signal for attack on the Aventine,while at the same time he caused proclamation to be madein the streets that the government would give to whosoevershould bring the head of Gracchus or of Flaccus its literalweight in gold, and that they would guarantee complete in足demnity to every one who should leave the Aventine beforethe beginning of the conflict. The? ranks on the Aventinespeedily thinned; the valiant nobility in union with theCretans and the slaves stormed the almost undefendedmount and killed all whom they found, about 250 persons,mostly of humble rank. Marcus Flaccus fled with his eldestson to a place of concealment, where they were soon after足wards hunted out and put to death. Gracchus had at thebeginning of the conflict retired into the temple of Minerva,and was there about to pierce himself with his sword, whenhia friend Publius Laetorius seized his arm and besought him