OCR Output 494 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. with the news that he had secured the firstplace, the second, and all the places, (for asboon as one had begun, they all submitted tohis disposal:) but the queen and the nationwere in the greatest disorder. For they wereaware, that it would not be long ere Aristo-bulus would be able to set himself firmly inthe government: what they were principallyafraid of was this, that he would inflict punish­ment upon them, from the mad treatment hishouse had had from them. So they resolvedto take his wife and children into custody, andkeep them in the *fortress that was over thetemple. Now there was a great conflux ofpeople that came to Aristobulus from allparts: insomuch that he had a kind of royalattendance about him. For in little morethan fifteen days he got twenty-two strongplaces; which gave him the opportunity ofraising an army from Libanus, and Tra-chonitis, and the fmonarchs. For men areeasily led by the greater number, and easilysubmit to them. And besides this they sup­posed, that by affording him their assistance,when he could not expect it, as well as heshould have the advantages that would comeby his being king: because they had beenthe occasion of his gaining the kingdom.Now the elders of the Jews, and Hyrcanuswith them, went unto the queen; and de­sired that she would give them her senti­ments about the present posture of affairs.For that Aristobulus was in effect lord ofalmost all the kingdom; by possessing somany strong holds; and that it was absurdfor them to take any counsel of themselves,how ill soever she were, while she was alive;and that the danger would be upon them inno long time. But she bade them do whatthey thought proper to be done: that they * This fortress, castle, citadel, or tower, whitherthe wife and children of Aristobulus were now sent,and which overlooked the temple, could be no otherthan what Hyrcanus I. built, XVIII. 4, and Herod had many circumstances in their favour stillremaining: a nation in good heart; an army;and money in their several treasuries: forthat she had small concern about publicaffairs now, when the strength of her bodyalready failed her. Now a little while after she had said thisto them, she died; when she had reignedJnine years, and had lived seventy-three.A woman she was who shewed no signs ofweakness in her sex; for she was sagaciousto the greatest degree in her ambition ofgoverning; and demonstrated by her doingsat once that her mind was fit for action, andthat sometimes men themselves shew the lit­tle understanding they have by the frequentmistakes they make in point of government.For she always preferred the present to fu­turity, and preferred the power of an impe­rious dominion above all things: and in com­parison of that had no regard to what wasgood, or what was right. However shebrought the affairs of her house to such anunfortunate condition, that she was the occa­sion of the taking away that authority fromit, and that in no long time afterward, whichshe had obtained by a vast number of haz­ards and misfortunes; and this out of a de­sire of what does not belong to a woman; andall by a compliance in her sentiments withthose that bore ill will to their family; andby leaving the administration destitute of aproper support of great men. And indeedher management, during her administration,while she was alive, was such, as filled thepalace after her death with calamities anddisturbance. However, although this hadbeen her way of governing, she preservedthe nation in peace. And this is the conclu­sion of the affairs of Alexandra. the Great rebuilt, and called the tower of Antonio,XV. 11. t See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20. t From an. 78 to an. 70 B. C.