OCR Output 54 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL, Acacius might be satiated with love, yet some applauseis clue to the firmness of a mind which could sacrificepleasure and habit to the stronger sense either of duty orinterest. The wishes and prayers of Theodora couldnever obtain the blessing of a lawful son, and she buriedan infant daughter, the sole offspring of her marriage.0Notwithstanding this disappointment, her dominion waspermanent and absolute; she preserved, by art or merit, %the affections of Justinian; and their seeming dissen­sions were always fatal to the courtiers who believedthem to be sincere. Perhaps her health had been im­paired by the licentiousness of her youth; but it was al­ways delicate, and she was directed by her physicians touse the Pythian warm baths. In this journey, the em­press was followed by the praetorian prefect, the greattreasurer, several counts and patricians, and a splendidtrain of four thousand attendants: the highways wererepaired at her approach; a palace was erected for herreception: and as she passed through Bithynia, shedistributed liberal alms to the churches," the monas­teries, and the hospitals, that they might implore hea-■nd death, ven for the restoration of her health." At length,June 11. ' in the twenty-fourth year of her marriage, and thetwenty-second of her reign, she was consumed by acancer ;q and the irreparable loss was deplored by her hus­band, who, in the room of a theatrical prostitute, mighthave selected the purest and most noble virgin of the east/Thefac- JT, A. material difference may be observed in the tionsofthe - . , . - , , circus games of antiquity; the most eminent of the Greeks ° St. Sabas refused to pray for a son of Theodora, lest he should prove a hereticworse than Anastasius himself. (Cyril in Vit. St. Saba?, apud Alemaii. p. 70. 109.) P See John Malala, torn. 2. p. 174, Thcophanes, p. 158. Prooopius de Editie.lib. 5. c. 3. 1 Theodora Chalccdonensis synod! inimica canceris ping! tolo corpore perfusavitam prodigiose finivit. (Victor Tununensis .in Chron.) .On such occasions, an or­thodox mind is steeled against pity. Alemannus (p. 12,13.) understands the liwi#»{iKoi/xnDn of Thcophanes as civil language, which does not imply either piety or re­pentance; yet two years after her death, St. Theodora is celebrated by Paul Silen-tiarius. (in Proem, 5. 58—62.) r As she persecuted the popes, and rejected a conncil, Bnronins exhausts thenames of Eve, Dalila, Herpdias, &c. after which he has recourse to his infernaldictionary ; civis inferni—alumna d.-emonum—satanico agitata spiritft—srstro percita.diabolico, &c. &c. (A. D. 548. uo. 24.)