OCR Output AN. 1108.] 193 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and ever to remember the miseries that hadbefallen them on account of their departurefrom virtue; as also to remember the strangesigns that God had shewed, and the body oflaws that Moses had given them; if they hadany desire of being preserved, and madehappy with their king. But he said, if theyshould grow careless of these things, greatjudgments would come from God upon them,and upon their king. And when Samuel hadthus prophesied to the Hebrews, he dismissedthem to their own homes; having confirmedthe kingdom to Saul the second time. CHAP. VI. OF AN EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINST THE HE­BREWS, AND ITS ILL SUCCESS. NOW* Saul chose out of the multitudeabout three thousand men, and tooktwo thousand of them to be his own body­guards, and abode in the city Bethel; but hefave the rest of them for guards to Jonathanis son, and sent him to Gibeah, where hebesieged and took a certain garrison of thePhilistines, not far fromf Gilgal. For thePhilistines of Gibeah had beaten the Jews,and taken their weapons away; and had putgarrisons into the strongest places of thecountry, and had forbidden them to carry anyinstrument of iron, or to make use of any ironin any case whatsoever. And on account ofthis prohibition it was that the husbandmen,if they had occasion to sharpen any of their * Josephus here omits the first words of this history;as does the Septuagint, 1 Sam. xiii. 1. The text runsthus in. the present Hebrew: Saul was ... 1 years oldwhen he began to reign, and he reigned two years. Wherein one, if not in both places, the decads are wanting. Noris it fit to invent idle excuses, and far-fetched interpreta­tions, in order to evade such difficulties; as the learnedand judicious Dr. Wall has frequently observed, in his veryvaluable, but posthumous critical notes on the Old andNew Testament. If the text be at all genuine, it mightbe written at first thus: Saul was 21 or 31 years old whenhe began to reign, and he reigned two years. t This was Galgal by Michmas and Bethel, not the fa­mous Galgal, or Gilgal near Jericho. J The words in the original, and in our translation ofthe Bible, are thirty thousand; but the Syriac and Arabicversions, (which we have thought proper to follow,) makethem no more than three thousand; and indeed whoeverconsiders, that Pharaoh king of Egypt when he had mus­tered all his forces together, could bring no more than sixhundred of these chariots into the field, and all the otherprinces, whose equipages are related in Scripture, muchfewer, must needs think it a thing incredible, that the tools, whether it were the coulter, the spade,or any other instrument of husbandry, theycame to the Philistines to do it. Now as soonas the Philistines heard of this slaughter oftheir garrison, they were in a rage about it;and looking on this contempt as a terribleaffront offered them, they made war againstthe Jews,J with three hundred thousand foot­men, thirty thousand chariots, and six thou­sand horses; and they pitched their camp atthe city Michmash.|| When Saul, the king ofthe Hebrews, was informed of this, he wentdown to the city Gilgal, and made proclama­tion over all the country, that they shouldtry to regain their liberty, and called them tothe war against the Philistines, diminishingtheir forces, and despising them, as not sogreat, but they might hazard a battle withthem. But when the people about Saul ob­served how numerous the Philistines were,they were under great consternation; andsome of them hid themselves in caves, and indens under ground; but the greater part fledinto the land beyond Jordan, which belongedto Gad and Reubel. But Saul sent to the prophet, and calledhim to consult with him about the war, andthe public affairs. So he commanded him tostay there for him, and to prepare sacrifices;for he would come to him within seven days,that they might offer sacrifices on the seventhday, and might then join battle with theirenemies.^ So he waited, as the prophetcommanded him to do. Yet did not he ob- Philistines, out of their small territories, which extendedno farther than the two tribes of Simeon and Dan, alongthe coasts of the Mediterranean sea, could ever be able toraise so vast an armament; no, nor all the nations thatthey could possibly call in to their assistance. For be­sides that, in the account of all armies, the cavalry isalways more numerous than the chariots of war, (whichis different here,) the largest armies that we ever read ofwere able to compass a very few of these chariots, in com­parison of the number here specified. Mithridates, in hisvast army, had but a hundred; Darius but two; and An-tiochus Epiphanes, (2 Mac. xiii. 2.) but three. So thatwe must either say, that the transcribers made a mistakein the Hebrew copy, or (with some other commentators,)suppose that these thirty thousand chariots, were notchariots of war, but most of them carriages only, for theconveyance of the baggage belonging to such a vast mul­titude of men, or for the deportation of the plunder theyhoped to be master of by having conquered the country,Le Gere's Commentary, and Universal History. B. II 1 Sam. xiii. 5. § Saul seems to have staid till near the time of theevening sacrifice, on the seventh day; which Samuel had