OCR Output CHAP. 5. ROMAN HISTORY. Ill gent solicitations to write to the Tarquins. For how-else, said they, is it possible to convince them, thatwhat we have to advance about a business of the highestconsequence, is not altogether a mere fiction? These letters', which were given as a pledge of theirfidelity, discovered the whole plot. For the day beforethe ambassadors were to take their departure, they hap­pened to sup with the Vitellii, where the conspirators,as is usual in such cases, conversed long together in pri­vate about their new concerted plot. One of their slaves,who before had found out what they were about, over­heard their conversation: but he waited for that oppor­tunity, when the letters should be delivered, which whenseized, would make a full discovery of the whole affair.The moment he observed that the letters were delivered,he advised the consuls, who went directly to seize theambassadors and conspirators together. The whole affairwas crushed without any noise. They took care in thefirst place, to secure the letters, lest they should be putout of'the way. The traitors were immediately claptin irons; but with respect to the ambassadors, they werefor some time at a loss. Their crime, indeed, meritedthe treatment due to enemies, but a regard to the law ofnations prevailed. CHAP. V. The conspirators condemned and executed; and the effectfof the Tarquins given tip to be plundered by the people. J. HE restitution of the tyrant's effects, which the"senate had formerly voted, came once more upon thecarpet. The fathers, exasperated as they were, wouldneither suffer them to be restored, nor confiscated. Theywere, therefore,. given up to be rifled by the people,who/ after they had shared in the plunder, might, uponno future occasion, have any hopes of a reconciliationwith the Tarquins. A field, between the city and the Tiber, their pro­perty, was consecrated to Mars; and ever since hathbeen called, the Campus Martius. It happened, that itwas tmder corn ripe for cutting down; but as they deem­