OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 433 by the soldiers. The provinces of the East, delivered from the terrorsof civil war, cheerfully acknowledged the authority of Licinius 79. The vanquished emperor left behind him two children, a boy of Cruelty ofabout eight, and a girl of about seven years old. Their inoffensiveage might have excited compaffion, but the compassion of Liciniuswas a very feeble resource, nor did it restrain him from extinguiJJjingthe name and memory of his adversary. The death of Severianuswill admit of less excuse, as it was dictated neither by revengenor by policy. The conqueror had never received any injury fromthe father of that unhappy youth, and the stiort and obscure reignof Severus in a distant part of the empire was already forgotten. Butthe execution of Candidianus was an act of the blackest cruelty andingratitude. He was the natural son of Galerius, the friend and bene­factor of Licinius. The prudent father had judged him too young tosustain the weight of a diadem; but he hoped that under the protectionof princes, who were indebted to his favour for the imperial purpleCandidianus might pass a secure and honourable life. He was nowadvancing towards the twentieth year of his age, and the royaltyof his birth, though unsupported either by merit or ambitionwas sufficient to exasperate the jealous mind of Licinius So. Tothese innocent and illustrious victims of his tyranny, we must addthe wife and daughter of the emperor Diocletian. When thatprince conferred on Galerius the title of Cæsar, he had given him inmarriage his daughter Valeria, whose melancholy adventures mightfurnish a very singular subject for tragedy. She had fulfilled and even Unfortunatesurpassed the duties of a wife. As she had not any children her- empress vVself, flie condescended to adopt the illegitimate son of her hufbandj Jj;"th™d ^and invariably displayed towards the unhappy Cardidianus thetenderness and anxiety of a real mother. After the death of Ga­lerius, her ample possessions provoked the avarice, and her personalattractions excited the desires of his successor Maxioun HeVol. I. Kkk had