OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. sured that love of ease and retirement which had withdrawn himfrom the public service But it was impossible, that minds likethose of Maximian and his son, could long possess in harmony anundivided power. Maxentius considered himself as the legalsovereign of Italy, elected by the Roman senate and people; norwould he endure the controul of his father, who arrogantly de­clared, that by his name and abilities the rash youth had beenestablished on the throne. The cause was solemnly pleaded beforethe Prætorian guards, and those troops who dreaded the severity, ofthe old emperor espoused the party of Maxentius The life andfreedom of Maximian were however respected, and he retired fromItaly into Illyricum, affecting to lament the past, and secretly con­triving new mischiefs. But Galerius, who was well acquaintedwith his character, soon obliged him to leave his dominions, andthe last refuge of the disappointed Maximian was the court of hisson-in-law Constantine JJ. He was received with respect by thatartful prince, and with the appearance of filial tenderness by theempress Fausta. That he might remove every suspicion, he re­signed the imperial purple a second time professing himself atlength convinced of the vanity of greatness and ambition. Hadhe persevered in this resolution, he might have ended his life withless dignity indeed than in his first retirement, yet, however, withcomfort and reputation. But the near prospect of a throne, broughtback to his remembrance the state from whence he was fallen, andhe resolved, by a desperate effort, either to reign or to peristuAn incursion of the Franks had summoned Constantine, with apart of his army, to the banks of the Rhine; the remainder ofthe troops were stationed in the southern provinces of Gaul, whichJay exposed to the enterprises of the Italian emperor, and a con­siderable treasure was deposited in the city of Aries. Maximianeither craftily invented, or hastily credited a vain report of thedeath of Constantine. Without hesitation he ascended the throne, seized