OCR Output 382 THE DECLINE AND FALL It is in the fourteenth century, that we may view in the strongest light the state•and contrast of the Roman empire of Germany, which no longer held, except onthe borders of the Rhine and Danube, a single province of Trajan or Constantine.Their unworthy successors were the counts of Hapsburg, of Nassau, of Luxem-burgh, and of Schwartzenburgh: the emperor Henry VIL procured for his son thecrown of Bohemia, and his grandson Charles IV. was born among a people, strangeand barbarous in the estimation of the Germans themselves. (1) After the ex­communication of Lewis of Bavaria, he received the gift or promise of the vacantempire from the Roman pontiffs, who, in the exile and captivity of Avignon, af­fected the dominion of the earth. The death of his competitors united the elec­toral college, and Charles was unanimously saluted king of the Romans, and futureemperor: a title which in the same age was prostituted to the Cssars of Germa­ny and Greece. The German emperor was no more than the elective and impo­tent magistrate of an aristocracy of princes, who had not left him a village thathe might call his own. His best prerogative was the right of presiding and pro­posing in the national senate, which was convened at his summons; and his nativeKingdom of Bohemia, less opulent than the adjacent city of Nuremburg, was thefirmest seat of his power and the richest source of his revenue. The army withwhich he passed the Alps consisted of three hundred horse. In the cathedral ofSt. Ambrose, Charles was crowned with the iron crown, which tradition ascribedto the Lombard monarchy; but he was admitted only with a peaceful train; thegates of the city were shut upon him; and the king of Italy was held a captive bythe arms of the Visconti, whom he confirmed in the sovereignty of Milan. In theVatican he was again crowned with the golden crown of the empire; but, in obe­dience to a secret treaty, the Roman emperor immediately withdrew, without re­posing a single night within the walls of Rome. The eloquent Petrarch,(2) whosefancy revived the visionary glories of the capitol, deplores and upbraids the igno­minious flight of the Bohemian; and even his cotemporaries could observe, thatthe sole exercise of his authority was in the lucrative sale of privileges and titles.The gold of Italy secured the election of his son; but such was the shameful po­verty of the Roman emperor, that his person was arrested by a butcher in thestreets of Worms, and was detained in the public inn, as a pledge or hostage forthe payment of his expenses. From this humiliating scene, let us turn to the apparent majesty of the sameCharles in the diets of the empire. The golden bull, which fixes the Germanicconstitution, is promulgated in the style of a sovereign and legislator. A hundredprinces bowed before his throne, and exalted their own dignity by the voluntaryhonours which they yielded to their chief or minister. At the royal banquet, thehereditary great officers, the seven electors, who in rank and title were equal tokings, performed their solemn and domestic service of the palace. The seals ofthe triple kingdom were borne in state by the archbishops of Mentz, Cologne, andTreves, the perpetual arch-chancellors of Germany, Italy, and Aries. The greatmarshal, on horseback, exercised his function with a silver measure of oats,which he emptied on the ground, and immediately dismounted to regulate theorder of the guests. The great steward, the count palatine of the Rhine, placedthe dishes on the table. The great chamberlain, the margrave of Brandenburg, Sresented, after the repast, the golden ewer and basin, to wash. The king of Bo-emia, as great cup-bearer, was represented by the emperor's brother, the dukeof Luxemburg and Brabant; and the procession was closed by the great huntsman,who introduced a boar and a stag, with a loud chorus of horns and hounds. (3)Nor was the supremacy of the emperor confined to Germany alone; the heredi­tary monarchs of Europe confessed the pre-eminence of his rank and dignity; bewas the first of the Christian princes, the temporal head of the great republic of collects them under tlieir respective heads. To this work, in a less pet-feet state. Dr. Robertson was jrraleful-lyindebted for that masterly sketch which traces even the modern chances of the Germanic bod)*. The Cor­pus Historise Germanicae of Struvius, has been likewise consulted, the more usefully, as that huge compilationis fortified in every page with the original texts. (1) *yelpersonaUy, Charles IV. must not be considered as a harharian. After his education at Paris, he reco­vered the use of the Bohemian, his native idiom; and the emperor conversed and wrote with equal facility inFrench, Latin, Italian, and Gel-man. (Struvius, p. 615,610.) Petrarch always represents him as a polite andlearned prince. •* (2) Besides the German and Italian historians, the expedition of Charles IV. is painted in lively and oriet-xial colours in the curious Memoires stir la Vie de Petrarque, torn. iii. p. 370—130. By the Abbe de SadC•chose prolixity has never been blamed by any reader of taste and curiosity. f3)^ee thewholt- ceremony in Strrrriiis, p. 629.