OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 531 crimes adhering to that name, he to be punished ? In themeantime, I have taken this course about those who havebeen brought before me as Christians. I asked them whetherthey were Christians or not ? If they confessed that theywere Christians, I asked them again, and a third time, inter­mixing threatenings with the questions: if they perseveredin their confession, I ordered them to executed;' for I didnot doubt but, let their confession be of any sort whatsoever,this positiveness and inflexible obstinacy deserved to be pun­ished. There have been some of this mad sect whom I tooknotice of in particular as Roman citizens, that they might bosent to that city.2 After some time, as is usual in such exami­nations, the crime spread itself, and many more cases camebefore me. A libel was sent me, though without an author,containing many names [of persons accused.] These deniedthat they were Christians now, or ever had been. They calledupon the gods, and supplicated to your image,3 which I causedto be brought to me for that purpose, with frankincense andwine: they also cursed Christ:4 none of which things, as it issaid, can any of those that are really Christians be compelledto do ; so I thought fit to let them go. Others of them, thatwere named in the libel, said they were Christians, but pre­sently denied it again; that, indeed, they had been Christians,but had ceased to be so, some three years, some many more;and one there was that said he had not been so these twentyyears. All these worshipped your image, and the images ofour gods: these also cursed Christ. However, they assured 1 Amazing doctrine! that a firm and fixed resolution of keeping a goodconscience should be thought without dispute to deserve death, and this bysuch comparatively excellent heathens as Pliny and Trajan. 2 This was the case of St. Paul, who being a citizen of Rome, was allowedto appeal unto Caesar, and mas sent to Rome accordingly. Acts xxii. 25-29;xxv. 25; xxvi. 32; xxvii. 37. 3 Amazing stupidity! that the emperor's image, even while he was alive,should bo allowed capable of divine worship, even by such comparativelyexcellent heathens as Pliny and Trajan. * Take here a parallel account of the martyrdom of Polycarp, sect. 9. Theproconsul said—"Reproach Christ." Polycarp replied — "Eighty and sixyears have I now served Christ, and he has never done mo the least wrong;how then can I blaspheme my King and my Savior?"