OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 167 (Hyeres P), Antipolis (Antibes), and Nicaea (Nice) on theeast secured the navigation of the coast as well as the land-route from the Pyrenees to the Alps; and its mercantileand political connections reached far into the interior. An Conflictsexpedition into the Alps above Nice and Antibes, directed J7.l1" 'neagainst the Ligurian Oxybii and Decietes, was undertaken lSunans<by the Romans in 600 partly at the request of the Mas- 154.siliots, partly in their own interest; and after hot conflicts,some of which were attended with much loss, this districtof the mountains was compelled to furnish thenceforthstanding hostages to the Massiliots and to pay them a yearlytribute. It is not improbable that about this same periodthe cultivation of the vine and olive, which flourished inthis quarter after the model set by the Massiliots, was inthe interest of the Italian landholders and merchantssimultaneously prohibited throughout the territory beyondthe Alps dependent on Massilia.* A similar character of and thefinancial speculation marks the war, which was waged by Salassi.the Romans under the consul Appius Claudius in 611 143.against the Salassi respecting the gold mines and gold wash­ings of Victumulae (in the district of Vercelli and Bard andin the whole valley of the Dorea Baltea). The great extent ofthese washings, which deprived the inhabitants of the countrylying lower down of water for their fields, first gave rise toan attempt at mediation and then to the armed interventionof the Romans. The war, although the Romans began itlike all the other wars of this period with a defeat, led atlast to the subjugation of the Salassi and the cession of thegold district to the Roman treasury. Some forty yearsafterwards (654) the colony of Eporedia (Ivrea) was insti- 190.tuted on the territory thus gained, chiefly perhaps with aview to command the western, as Aquileia commanded theeastern, passage of the Alps. These Transalpine wars first assumed a more serious cha- Transalpineracter, when Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, the faithful ally of relations ofGaius Gracchus, took the chief command in this quarter as ome" * If Cicero has not allowed himself to fall into an anachronism, when hemakes Africanus say this as early as 625 (de Sep. iii. 9), the view indicated 129.in the text remains perhaps the only possible one. This enactment did notrefer to Northern Italy and Liguria, as the cultivation of the vine by theGenuates in 637 (ii. 376, note) proves; and as little to the immediate terri- H1?.tory of Massilia (Just, xliii. 4; Poseidon. Fr. 25, Mull.; Strabo, iv. 179).The large export of wine and oil from Italy to the region of the Rhone in theseventh century o.c. is well known.