OCR Output LIVY. the Faliscians likewise, who had for many years livedin friendship with Rome, had united their arms withthose of the Etrurians. The consideration of the nearvicinity of that nation quickened the attention of thesenate; insomuch, that they passed a decree that he足ralds should be sent to demand satisfaction : whichbeing refused, war was declared against the Falisciansby direction of the senate and order of the people ;and the consuls were desired to determine, by lots,which of them should lead an army from Samniuminto Etruria. Carvilius had, in the mean time, takenfrom the Samnites Volana, Palumbinum, and Hercu-laneum : Volana after a siege of a few days, Palumbi足num the same day on w hich he approached the walls.At Herculaneum, it is true, the consul had two regularengagements without any decisive advantage on eitherside, and with greater loss than was suffered by theenemy: but afterwards, encamping on the spot, heshut them up within their works, besieged, and tookthe town. In these three towns were taken or slainten thousand men, of whom the prisoners composedsomewhat the greater part. On the consuls castinglots for the provinces, Etruria fell to Carvilius, to thegreat satisfaction of the soldiers, who now found thecold too severe in Samnium. Papirius was opposed atSepinum with a more powerful force : he was obligedto fight often in pitched battles ; often on a march,and often under the walls of the city, against the ir足ruptions of the enemy; and could neither besiege norengage them on equal terms; for the Samnites had notonly the advantage of walls, but likewise of numbersof men and arms to protect their walls. At length,after a great deal of fighting, he forced them to submitto a regular siege. This he carried on with vigor, andmade himself master of the city by means of his worksand by storm. The rage of the soldiers on this occa足sion caused the greatest slaughter in the taking of thetown ; seven thousand four hundred fell by the sword ;the number of the prisoners did not amount to threethousand. The spoil, of which the quantity was very