OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 351 Lucius Villius Tappulus, and Cneius Baebius Tam-philus. 50. During that year provisions were remarkablycheap. The curule ediles, Marcus Claudius Marcel-lus and Sextus jElius Paetus, distributed among thepeople a vast quantity of corn brought from Africa, atthe rate of two asses a peck. They also celebrated theRoman games in a magnificent manner, repeating thema second day; and erected in the treasury five brazenstatues out of the money paid as fines. The plebeiangames were thrice repeated intire, by the ediles, Lu­cius Terentius Massa, and Cneius Baebius Tamphilus,who was elected pretor. There were also funeral gamesexhibited that year in the forum for the space of fourdays, on occasion of the death of Marcus ValeriusLajvinus, by his sons Publius and Marcus, who gavealso a show of gladiators, in which twenty-five pairsfought. Marcus Aurelius Cotta, one of the ten com­missioners for keeping the books of the Sibyl, died,and Manius Acilius Glabrio was substituted in hisroom. It happened that both the curule ediles, latelychosen, were persons who could not immediately un­dertake the office: for Caius Cornelius Cethegus wasabsent when he was elected, being then commander inSpain; and Caius Valerius Flaccus, who was present,being flamen Dialis, could not take the oath of ob­serving the laws; and no person was allowed to holdany office longer than five days without taking the.oath. Flaccus petitioned to be excused from comply­ing with the law, on which the senate decreed that ifthe edile produced a person approved of by the con­suls, who would take the oath for him, the consuls, ifthey thought proper, should make application to thetribunes, that it might be proposed to the people. Lu­cius Valerius Flaccus, pretor elect, was produced toswear for his brother. The tribunes proposed to thecommons, and the commons ordered that this shouldbe as effectual as if the edile himself had sworn. Withregard to the other edile, likewise, an order of thecommons was made. On the tribunes putting the