OCR Output 182 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. and the more they were pressed by the enemy, they wereobliged to contract their own circle in proportion; whichat once discovered their weakness, and the enemy's vastsuperiority in point of numbers, when their ranks werecrowded into so narrow a space. Then giving over anattack, which they made with equal vigour on all sides,they directed all their force to one point. Thither, draw­ing up in a wedge, by the weight of their bodies, andthe points of their swords they opened a passage forthemselves, that led by an easy ascent to the side of ahill, where they first halted. As soon as the advantage of the ground had giventhem leisure to respire, and recover from the shock of sogreat a surprise, they beat back the assailants; and bythe convenience of their post, small as their party was,were getting the better of them, when the Vejentes, byfetching a compass, possessed themselves of the top ofthe hill. Thus the enemy became again superior. TheFabii were all killed to a man, and the fort taken. It isuniversally admitted that three hundred and six fellthere; and, that there only remained a youth of aboutfourteen years of age, as a stock to the Fabian family,which in future times, was to be the prop and stay ofthe Roman people, both by their counsel and their sword,upon the most trying occasions. . CHAP. LI. The Vejentes punished. J. HIS disaster happened in the consulship of C. Ho-ratius and T. Menenius. The latter was immediatelydispatched to chastise the insolence of the Etrurians,which their .victory had created; but he was defeated,and the Janiculum taken. Moreover, as the city was inwant of provisions, and the Etrurians already on thisside the Tiber, the city would certainly have undergonea siege, had not the consul Horatius been recalled fromthe expedition against the Volsci. So close to the wallsof Rome was this war brought, that the first battle wasfought at the temple of Hope, with no advantage on. , either side, and the second at the gate there: although