OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 81 ground in various places, leaving the standards thinlyattended. Hasdrubal, until daylight should discovera road, ordered the army to proceed along the bank ofthe river; and as he wandered along the turnings andwindings, with which that river remarkably abounds,he made but little progress; still intending, however,to cross it, as soon as the day enabled him to find aconvenient passage. But the farther he removed fromthe sea the higher did he find the banks; so that notmeeting with a ford, and wasting the day in the search,he gave the enemy time to overtake him. 48. First, Nero, with all the cavalry, came up; thenPorcius, with the light infantry. While they harassedhis wearied army by frequent assaults on every side, andwhile the Carthaginian, now stopping his march, orrather flight, had a mind to encamp on a high spot ofground, on the bank of the river, Livius arrived with themain body of infantry armed, and marshalled for imme­diate action. When the Romans had united all theirforces, and the line was drawn out in array, Claudiustook the command of the right wing, Livius of the left;that of the centre was given to the pretor. Hasdrubal,laying aside the design of fortifying a camp, when hesaw the necessity of fighting, placed his elephants infront, before the battalions, and, beside them, on theleft wing, he opposed the Gauls to Claudius; not thathe had much confidence in them, but thinking thatthey were much dreaded by the enemy. The right- wing, which was to oppose Livius, he took to himself,together with the Spaniards; on whom, as being vete­ran troops, he placed his principal reliance. The Li-gurians were posted in the centre, behind the elephants;but the line was too long in proportion to its depth.A rising ground in their front protected the Gauls;and while that part of the line which was composed ofthe Spaniards engaged the left wing of the Romans,their right wing stretching out beyond the extent ofthe fight, stood idle; for the eminence between themand the enemy prevented their making an attack eitheron their front or flank. Between Livius and Hasdru-liv. vol. v. F