OCR Output AN. 267 1057.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tity of gold, and a hundred thousand talentsof silver. But God prohibited me by theprophet Nathan; because of the wars I hadon your account; and because my right handwas polluted with the slaughter of our ene­mies. But he commanded that my son, whowas to succeed me in the kingdom, shouldbuild a temple for him. Now therefore, sinceyou know of the twelve sons whom Jacob ourforefather had, Judah was appointed to beking; and that. I was preferred before my sixbrethren, and received the government fromGod; and that none of them were uneasy atit; so I do also desire that my sons be notseditious one against another, now Solomonhas received the kingdom; but to bear himcheerfully for their lord: as knowing that Godhath chosen him. For it is not a grievousthing to obey even a foreigner as a ruler, ifit be God's will; but it is natural to rejoicewhen a brother hath obtained that dignity;since the rest partake of it with him. And Ipray that the promises of God may be ful­filled; and that this happiness, which hehath promised to bestow upon king Solomon,over all the country, may continue thereinfor all time to come. And these promises, Oson! will be firm, and come to a happy end,if thou shewest thyself to be religious, and arighteous man, and an observer of the lawsof thy country. But if not, expect adversityupon thy disobedience to them." Now when the king had said this, he leftoff: but gave the description and pattern ofthe building of the temple, in the sight ofthem all, to Solomon; of the foundations, andof the chambers, inferior and superior; howmany they were to be, and how large inheight and in breadth; as also he determinedthe weight of the golden and silver vessels:moreover he earnestly excited him with hiswords, to use the utmost alacrity about thework: he exhorted the rulers also, and par­ticularly the tribe of Levi, to assist him; bothbecause of his youth, and because God hadchosen him to take care of the building of thetemple, and of the government of the king­dom. He also declared to them, that thework would not be very laborious to them;because he had prepared for it many talentsof gold, and more of silver, with timber, and * 2 Sam. *xii. 11. Psal. xviii. 10.voL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24. a great many carpenters, and stone-cutters,and a large quantity of emeralds, and allsorts of precious stones: and he said, thateven now he would give of the proper goodsof his own dominion two hundred talents;and three hundred other talents of pure goldfor the most holy place, and for the chariotof God,* the cherubim, which are to standover and cover the ark. Now when Davidhad done speaking, there appeared greatalacrity among the rulers, and the priests,and the Levites, who now contributed, andmade great and splendid promises for a fu­ture contribution. For they undertook tobring in of gold five thousand talents, andten thousand drachms;f and of silver, tenthousand talents; and many thousand talentsof iron. And if any one had a preciousstone, he brought it to be put among thetreasures; of which Jehiel, one of the pos­terity of Moses, had the care. Upon this occasion all the people rejoiced;as in particular did David, when he saw thezeal and forward ambition of the rulers, andthe priests, and of all the rest: and he beganto bless God with a loud voice, calling himthe father and parent of the universe, andthe author of human and divine things, withwhich he had adorned Solomon, the patronand guardian of the Hebrew nation, and ofits happiness, and of that kingdom which hehad given his son. Besides this, he prayed forhappiness to all the people; and to Solomonhis son, a sound and a righteous mind, in allsorts of virtue; and then he commanded themultitude to bless God. Upon which theyall fell down upon the ground, and wor­shipped him. They also gave thanks toDavid on account of all the blessings whichthey had received ever since he had takenthe kingdom. On the next day he presentedsacrifices to God, a thousand bullocks, and asmany lambs; which they offered for burnt-offerings. They also offered peace-offerings,and slew many ten thousand sacrifices; andthe king feasted all day, together with all thepeople: and they anointed Solomon a secondtime with the oil, and appointed him to beking, and Zadok to be the high-priest of thewhole multitude. And when they had broughtSolomon to the royal palace, and had set him t Staters. 3D