OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 321 remaining whole, they should give a degree of gran-deur to the ruins; and then, his rage not being sa­tiated, but no object remaining on which it could beexercised, he retired into Boeotia, without having per­formed in Greece any thing else worth mention. 27. The consul, Sulpicius, who was at that time en­camped on the river Apsus, between Apollonia andDyrrachium, having ordered Lucius Apustius, lieute­nant-general, thither, sent him with part of the forcesto lay waste the enemy's country. Apustius, afterravaging the frontiers of Macedonia, and having, atthe first assault, taken the forts of Corragos, Gerru-nios, and Orgessos, came to Antipatria, a city situatedin a narrow vale; where, at first inviting the leadingmen to a conference, he endeavored to prevail onthem to put themselves under the protection of theRomans; but finding that from confidence in the size,fortifications, and situation of their city, they paid noregard to his discourse, he attacked the place by forceof arms, and took it by assault: then, putting all theyoung men to the sword, and giving up the intirespoil to his soldiers, he rased the walls, and burnedthe buildings. This proceeding spread such terror,that Codrion, a strong and well fortified town, sur­rendered to the Romans without a struggle. Leavinga garrison there, he took Ilion by force, a name betterknown than the town, on account of that of the same deno­mination in Asia. As the lieutenant-general was return­ing to the consul with a great quantity of spoil, Athe-nagoras, one of the king's generals, falling on his rear,in its passage over a river, threw it into disorder.On hearing the shouting and tumult, Apustius rodeback in full speed, ordered the troops to face about,and drew them up in order, with the baggage in thecentre. The king's troops could not support the on­set of the Roman soldiers: so that many of them wereslain, and more made prisoners. The lieutenant-gene­ral, having brought back the army without loss to theconsul, was ordered to return immediately to the fleet.liv. vol. v. x