OCR Output Chap. VII.l AND THE SULPICIAN KEVOLUTION. 229 gation of Italy the Roman burgess-body had closed itsranks ; the bestowal of the franchise on whole communitieswas totally given up, its bestowal on individuals was greatlyrestricted. Even the full liberty of migration belonging to theOld Latin burgesses, which procured for such of their membersas transferred their abode to Rome the civitas sine suffragiothere, had been curtailed in a manner offensive to the com­munities concerned (ii. 334). They now advanced a step fur­ther: on occasion of the agitation which contemplated theextension of the Roman franchise to all Italy in the years628, 632, the right of migration to Rome was itself attacked, 126. 122.and all the non-burgesses resident in Rome were directlyejected by decree of the people and of the senate from thecapital (P. 106, 124)—a measure as odious on account of itsilliberality, as dangerous from the various private interestswhich it injuriously affected. In short, while the Italianallies had formerly stood to the Romans partly in the rela­tion of brothers under tutelage, protected rather than ruledand not destined to perpetual minority, partly in that ofslaves tolerably treated and not utterly deprived of the hopeof manumission, they were now all of them subject nearly inequal degree, and with equal hopelessness, to the rods andaxes of their Roman masters, and might at the utmost pre­sume like privileged slaves to transmit the kicks receivedfrom their masters onward to the poor provincials. It belongs to the nature of such differences that, restrained The rup-by the sense of national unity and by the remembrance ofture-dangers surmounted in common, they make their appearanceat first gently and as it were modestly, till the breach gradu­ally widens and the relation between the rulers, whose mightis their sole right, and the ruled, whose obedience reachesno further than their fears, manifests at length undisguis-edly the character of force. Down to the revolt and razing Fregellanof Fregellae in 629, which as it were officially attested the war- 125-altered character of the Roman rule, the ferment among theItalians did not properly wear a revolutionary character.The longing after equal rights had gradually risen from aailent wish to a loud request, only to be the more de­cidedly rejected, the more distinctly it was announced.It was very soon apparent that a voluntary concession was Difficulty ofnot to be hoped lor, and the wish to extort what was a generalrefused would not be wanting; but the position of Rome at tt °nthat time hardly permitted them to entertain any idea of