OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 77 and with fearful rapidity and violence to maturity. From avery early period the Roman economy was based on the twofactors—always in quest of each other, and always at variance—the husbandry of the small farmer and the money of thecapitalist. The latter in the closest alliance with landhold-ing on a great scale had already for centuries waged againstthe farmer-class a war, which seemed as though it could notbut terminate in the destruction first of the farmers andthereafter of the whole commonwealth, but was broken offwithout being properly decided in consequence of the suc­cessful wars and the comprehensive and ample distribution ofdomains for which they gave facilities. It has already beenshown (ii. 371-377) that in the same age, which renewedthe distinction between patricians and plebeians underaltered names, the disproportionate accumulation of capitalwas preparing a second assault on the farming system. Itis true that the method was different. Formerly the smallfarmer had been ruined by advances of money, which practi­cally reduced him to be the mere steward of his creditor;now he was crushed by the competition of transmarine, andespecially of slave-grown, corn. The capitalists kept pacewith the times; capital, while waging war against labour orin other words against the liberty of the person, of course asit had always done, under the strictest form of law, waged itno longer in that unseemly fashion which converted the freeman on account of debt into a slave, but, on the contrary,with slaves regularly bought and paid; the former usurerof the capital appeared in a shape conformable to the timesas the owner of industrial plantations. But the ultimateresult was in both cases the same—the depreciation of theItalian farms; the supplanting of the petty husbandry, firstin a part of the provinces and then in [taly, by the farmingof large estates; the prevailing tendency to devote the latterin Italy to the rearing of cattle and the culture of the oliveand vine; finally, the replacing of the free labourers in theprovinces as in Italy by slaves. Just as the nobility wasmore dangerous than the patriciate, because the formercould not like the latter be set aside by a change of theconstitution; so this new power of capital was more dan­gerous than that of the fourth and fifth centuries, becausenothing could be done to oppose it by changes in the law ofthe land. Before we attempt to describe the course of this second