OCR Output 2S6 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. of his sons should be his successor? Upon God's representingto him the countenance of Alexander, he was grieved that hewas to be the heir of all his goods, and suffered him to bebrought up in * Galilee. However, God did not deceive Hyr-canus, for after the death of Aristobulus, he certainly took thekingdom, and one of his brethren, who affected the kingdom,he slew, and the other, who chose to live a private and quietlife, he had in esteem. 2. When Alexander Janneus had settled the government inthe manner that he judged best, he made an expedition againstPtolemais; and having overcome the men in battle, he shutthem up in the city, and sat round about it, and besieged it;for of the maritime cities there remained only Ptolemais andGaza to be conquered, besides Strato's Tower, and Dora, whichwere held by the tyrant Zoilus. Now while Antiochus Phih>meter, and Antiochus who was called Cyzicenus, were makingwar one against another, and destroying one another's armies,the people of Ptolemais could have no assistance from them; butwhen they were distressed with this siege, Zoilus, who possessedStrato's Tower and Dora, and maintained a legion of soldiers,and on occasion of the contest between the kings, affected tyran­ny himself, came and brought some small assistance to the peo­ple of Ptolemais; nor indeed had the kings such a friendship forthem, as that they should hope for any advantage from them:Both these kings were in the case of wrestlers, who rindingthemselves deficient in strength, and yet being ashamed to yield,put off the fight by laziness and by lying still as long as theycould. The only hope they had remaining was from the king ofEgypt, and from Ptolemy Lathyrus, who now held Cyprus,and who came to Cyprus when he was driven from the govern­ment of Egypt, by Cleopatra his mother: So the people of Pto­lemais sent to this Ptolemy Lathyrus, and desired him to comeas a confederate, to deliver them, now they were in such dan­ger, out of the hands of Alexander. And as the ambassadorsgave him hopes, that if he would pass over into Syria, he wouldhave the people of Gaza, on the side of those of Ptolemnis; asalso they said, that Zoilus, and besides these the Sidonians, andmany others, would assist them, so he was elevated at this, andgot his fleet ready as soon as possible. 3. But in this interval Demenetus, one that was of abilities * The reason why Hyrcanus suffered not this son of his, whom he did not love,to come to Judta, but ordered him to be brought up in Galilee, is su gesifd |)V ur.Hudson, that Galilee was not esteemed so happy and well cultivated a country asJudea, Matt. xxvi. 73. John vii. 52. Acts ii. 7. although another obvious iva-nr.occurs also, that he was farther out of his sight in Galilee than be would have been inJudea.