OCR Output 72 THE DECLINE AND FALL family distinction. The former should naturally have expired withthe prince, on whom it was bestowed; and however the latter wasdiffused by adoption and female alliance, Nero was the last prince whocould claim so noble an extraction. But, at the time of his death, thepractice of a century had inseparably connected those appellations withthe Imperial dignity, and they have been preserved by a long succes­sion of emperors, Romans, Greeks, Franks, and Germans, from thefall of the republic to the present time. A distinction was, how­ever, soon introduced. The sacred title of Augustus was alwaysreserved for the monarch, whilst the name of Cæsar was more freelycommunicated to his relations; and, from the reign of Hadrian,at least, was appropriated to the second person in the state, whowas considered as the presumptive heir of the empire.Character and The tender respect of Augustus for a free constitution which heAugustus. had destroyed, can only be explained by an attentive considerationof the character of that subtile tyrant. A cool head, an unfeelingheart, and a cowardly disposition, prompted him, at the age ofnineteen, to assume the mask of hypocrisy, which he never after­wards laid aside. With the same hand, and probably with the sametemper, he signed the proscription of Cicero, and the pardon ofCinna. His virtues, and even his vices, were artificial; andaccording to the various dictates of his interest, he was at first theenemy, and at last the father, of the Roman world **. When heframed the artful system of the Imperial authority, his moderationwas inspired by his fears. He wished to deceive the people by animage of civil liberty, and the armies by an image of civil govern­ment. jmageofii- - I. The death of Caesar was ever before his eyes. He had lavishedpeople. wealth and honours on his adherents; but the most favoured friendsof his uncle were in the number of the conspirators. The fidelityof the legions might defend his authority against open rebellion ; but•their vigilance could not secure his person from the dagger of a deter­ mined