OCR Output 392 THE DECLINE AND FALL Cxxl" one oftne gates by a party of Saracens, who had been fortunately engaged in the service of Valens. The cavalry of Scythia was forced to yield to the ad­mirable swiftness and spirit of the Arabian horses;their riders were skilled in the evolutions of irregularwar; and the Northern Barbarians were astonishedand dismayed by the inhuman ferocity of the Bar­barians of the South. A Gothic soldier was slain bythe dagger of an Arab; and the hairy naked savage,applying his lips to the wound, expressed a horriddelight, while he sucked the blood of his vanquishedenemy. The army of the Goths, laden with thespoils of the wealthy suburbs, and the adjacent terri­tory, slowly moved, from the Bosphorus, to themountains which form the western boundary ofThrace. The important pass of Succi was betrayedby the fear, or the misconduct, of Maurus; and theBarbarians, who no longer had any resistance to ap­prehend from the scattered and vanquished troops ofthe East, spread themselves over the face of a fertileand cultivated country, as far as the confines of Italy,and the Hadriatic Sea *. Theythe" ^e Romans' wno so coolly, and so concisely, men-Roman tion the acts of justice which were exercised by thea°d!1378, legions, reserve their compassion, and their eloquence,379" for their own sufferings, when the provinces were in­vaded, and desolated, by the arms of the successfulBarbarians. The simple circumstantial narrative (didsuch a narrative exist) of the ruin of a single town,of the misfortunes of a single family, might exhibitan interesting and instructive picture of human man­ners: but the tedious repetition of vague and decla­matory complaints would fatigue the attention of themost patient reader. • The series of events may still be traced in the last pages of Ammianus(xxxi. 15, 16.), Zosiirms (1. iv. p. 227. 231.), whom we are now reduced tocherish, misplaces the sally of the Arabs before the death of Valens. Eunapius{in Excerpt. Legation. p. 20.) praises the fertility of Thrace, Macedonia, &c.