OCR Output MTNTUKNAE. 361 MISENUM. to execute his task; and hereupon the magistratesdetermined to send Marius away, and put him ontram" a ship which conveyed him to Africa. (Plut.Mar.36—39; Appian,B. C. i. 61,62; Veil. Pat. ii.19; Val. Max. i. 5. § 5. ii. 10. § 6; Liv. Epit. Ixxvii.;Juv. x. 276; Cic. pro Plane. 10, pro Sext. 22.) We hear little more of Mintnmae under the Re­public, though from ita position on the Appian Wayit is repeatedly noticed incidentally by Cicero (adAt', v. 1, 3, vii. 13, xvi. 10.) It still retained inhi« time the title of a colony; bnt received a ma­terial accession from a fresh body of colonists esta­blished there by Augustus ; and again at a laterpmod under Caligula. (Lib. Colon, p. 235; Hy-gin. at Limit, p. 178; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 355.)We find it in consequence distinguished both byPliny and Ptolemy by the title of a colony, as wellu in inscriptions (Plin. iii. 5. 8. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. §63; Orell. Inter. 3762; Mommsen, /. R. N. 4058—4061): and notwithstanding its unhealthy situ­ation, which is alluded to by Ovid, who calk it"Minturnae graves" (Met. xv. 716), it appears tohave continued throughout the Roman Empire toluve been a flourishing and important town. Itspnsperity is attested by numerous inscriptions, as»ell as by tlie ruins still existing on the site.These comprise the extensive remains of an amphi­theatre, of an aqueduct which served to bring waterfrom the neighbouring hills, and the substructionsof a temple, as well as portions of the ancient wallsand towers. (Romunelli, vol. iii. p. 430; Eustace,Classical Tpur, vol. ii. p. 318.) All these remainsare on the right bank of the Liris, but according toPliiiT the city extended itself on both sides of theriTer; and it is certain that its territory compriseda considerable extent on both banks of the Liris.(Hygin. de Limit, p. 178.) The period of its de­struction is unknown: we find it still mentioned inPrueopius (B. G. iii. 26) as a city, and apparentlya pUre of some strength; but at the commence­ment of the middle apes all trace of it is lost, andil was probably destroyed either by the Lombards orSaracens. The inhabitants seem to have withdrawnto the site of the modern Trajetto, a village on abill about 1J mile distant, the name of which is•broody derived from the passage of the Liris (AdTnjectuin), though wholly inapplicable to its pre­sent more elevated position. Between Mintnmae and the sea-coast, at therneath of the Liris, was the celebrated grove ofMarica [Leers Maiuoae], with a temple or shrineef the goddess of that name, which seems to havetooted a great reputation for sanctity. (Plut.Mar. 39; &trab. v. p. 233.) She appears to haveheen properly a local divinity; at least we do notmeet with ber worship under that name any whereeUe in Italy; though many writers called her thenether of Latinns, and others, perhaps on that veryarivant, identified her with Circe. (Virg. Aen. vii.*': Serv. ad loc.; Laclant. Inst. Die. i. 21.) Wenaj probably conclude that she was connected withthe old Latin religion; and this will explain theveneration with which her grove and temple wereTinied, not only by the inhabitants of Minturnae,Ui' by the Romans themselves. Frequent allusionst» 'hen are found in the Latin poets, but always in'Iree connection with Minturnae and the Liris.(Uor. Cam. in. 17. 7; Lucan. ii. 424: Martial,x£- 63; Clandian, Prob. et 01. Cons. 259). .Siralo calls Minturnae about 80 stadia from For-"«, and the same distance from Sinuessa: the Itineraries give the distance in each case as 9 miles.(Strab. v. p. 233; /tin. Ant. pp. 108, 121.) Aftercrossing the Liris a branch road quitted the AppianWray on the left, and led by Suessa to Teanum,where it joined the Via Latina. [E. H. B.] Ml'NYA (Minia), a city of Thessaly, said byStephanus B. (». v.) to have been formerly cnlledUalmonia ('AAjiacfa), and to have derived its namefrom Minyas. It is mentioned by Pliny (iv. 8. s. 15)under the name of Almon, and in conjunction withOrchomenus Minyeus in Thessaly. (See Miiller,Orchomenos vnd die Minyer, p. 244, 2nd ed.) Ml'NYAE (Mryvar), an ancient race in Greece,Raid to have been descended from Minyas, the sonof Orchomenus, who originally dwelt in Thessaly,and afterwards migrated into Boeotin, and foundedOrchomenus. [For details see Orchomenus.]Most of the Argonautic heroes were Minyae; andsome of them having settled in the island of Lemnos,continued to be called Minyae. These LemnianMinyae were driven out of the island by the Tyr­rhenian Pelasgians, and took refuge in Lacedaemon,from whence some of them migrated to Thera, andothers to Triphylia in Elis, where they foundedthe six Triphylian cities. (Herod, iv. 145—148.)[Eus, p. 818.] MINYEIUS (Mirurjiov), the ancient name of theriver Anigrus in Elis. (Horn. II. xi. 721.) [Ani-qrus.] MIKOBRIGA (MipoSprya). 1. Also calledMkrobrica (Plin. iv. 12. s. 35; Coins), a town ofthe Celtici in Lusitania, upon the Ocean (Ptol. ii. 5.§ 6), identified by some with Odemira. by otherswith Sines. (Mentelle, Esp. Anc. p. 260 ; Ukert,il 1. p. 390.) 2. A Roman municipium, in the territory of theTurduli, in Hispnnia Baetica, on the road fromEmerita to Caesaraugnsta, now Capilh, N. ofFuente Ovejuna. (Ptol. ii. 4. § 13; Plin. iii. 1.s. 3; It. Anton, p. 444; Inscr. Gruter, pp. 76,257.) 3. A town of the Oretani, in Hispania Tarraco-nensis, mentioned only by Ptolemy (ii. 6. § 59). MISE'NUM (Mio-timS*), was the name of a re­markable promontory on the coast of Campania (Ml-bkxum Promoktorium, Tac. Ann. xiv. 4; some­times also Miskni Promoktorium. Liv. xxiv. 13;to Mttivvbv (ucffov, Strab.: Capo di Afiseno), to­gether with the adjacent jwrt (Portus Misenvs,Flor. i. 16), and a town which grew up adjoining it,after the harbour had become the station of theRoman fleet. The promontory of Misennm forms thenorthern limit of the celebrated gulf called the Crateror Sinus Cumanus (the Bay of Naples). It is analmost isolated headland, forming a hill of consider­able elevation, and of a somewhat pyramidal form,joined to the mainland opposite to Procida only by anarrow strip of low land, between which and the con­tinuation of the coast by Bauli and Baiae is a deepinlet forming the harbour or port of Misenum (Strub.v. p. 243). A large stagnant pool or basin, stilldeeper in, now called the Mare Morto, communi­cated with this outer port by a very narrow entrance,which could be closed by a bridge or causeway. Itis probable that the headland of Misenum itself atone time formed part of the encircling heights of thecrater of a long extinct volcano, of which the MareMorto occupies the centre, and the Monte di Pro~cida (as the headland opposite to the island of thatname is now called) constituted the opposite margin.(Daubeny On Volcanoes, p. 202, 2nd edit.)