OCR Output 91 t SARMATIA. SARDOXES. SARDONES. [Sordohks.] SARDONYX (2ap8u>eu£). a mountain or chainof mountains in ffindottan, noticed by Ptolemy (vii.1. §§20 and 65). It would seem to have been partof the range now known by the name of the VhidkyaMountains. Lassen,in his map, has identified themwith the Pd\japippali Mountains on the right bankof the Narmada (Xerbudda), and Forbigw hassupposed them to be the Sdtpui*a Mountains, a con­tinuation of the same chain. [V.] SARDO'UM or SARDO'NIUM MARE (to Zap-Syov ir4Kayos, Strab., Pol, but to SapSoVtoi' ireAa-yos, Herod, i. 166), was the name given by theancients to the part of the Mediterranean sea ad­joining the island of Sardinia on the \V. and S.hike all similar appellations it was used with con­siderable vagueness and laxity; there being no na­tural limit to separate it from the other parts of theMediterranean. Eratosthenes seems to have appliedthe name to the whole of the sea westward of Sar­dinia to the coast of Spain (ap. Plin. iii. 5. s. 10),so as to include the whole of what was termed byother authors the Maul: Hist an um or Baleaki-CUM; but this extension does not seem to havebeen generally adopted. It was, on the other hand,clearly distinguished from the Tyrrhenian sea, whichlay to the E. of the two great islands of Sardiniaand Corsica, between thein and Italy, and fromthe Libyan sea (Mare Libycum), from which itwas separated by the kind of strait formed by theLilybaean promontory of Sicily, and the oppositepoint (Cape Bon) on the coast of Africa. (Pol. i.42; Strab. ii. pp. 105, 122; Agathem. ii. 14;Dmnys. Per. 82.) Ptolemy, however, gives thename of the Libyan sea to that immediately to theS. of Sardinia, restricting that of Sardouin Mare tothe W., which is certainly opposed to the usage ofthe other geographers. (Ptol. iii. 3. § 1.) Strabospeaks of the Sardinian sea as the deepest part ofthe Mediterranean; its greatest depth was said byPosidonius to be not less than 1000 fathoms.(Strab. ii. pp. 50, 54.) It is in fact quite un­fathomable, and the above estimate is obviously amere guess. [E. H. 15.] SAREPTA (2ap«p8a), the " Zarephatb, a cityof Sidon " of the Old Testament (1 Kings, xvii. 9.10; com p. St. Luke, ir. 26), apparently at the mostextreme north (Obad. 20), celebrated in the his­tory of Elijah the prophet. It is said by Josephusto be not far from Tyre and Sidon, lying betweenthe two. (Ant. viii. 13. § 2.) Pliny places it be­tween Tyre and Ornithon, on the road to Sidon (v.19. § 17). In the Itineranum Hierosohmi tan urnthe name does not occur, but it is described by aperiphrasis and placed viii. m. p. from Sidon (p.583). The Arabian geographer Sherif Ibn Idris,quoted by Reland, places Zarapkand 20 miles fromTyre, 10 from Sidon. (Palaestina, p. 985.) Itwas formerly cWubrated for its wine, and is supposedto be intended by Pliny under the name of Tyrian,which he commends with that of Tripolis andBerytua (xiv. 7). Several of the later Latin poetshave also sung Lhe praises of the "dulcia Bacehiinunera, quae Sarepta ferax, quae Gaza crearet,"the quantity of the first syllable being common (ap.Reland, p. 986). The place is noticed by moderntravellers. Dr. Robinson found 41 a large villagebearing the name of Surapend* five hours north ofTyre, three south of Sidon, near the sea-shore,where is a saint's tomb called ELKhiidr (— St.George)) which lie imagined to mark the site of a | Christian chapel mentioned by tnmlm ii Umiddle ages. (Bibl. He*. toL iiL \T 411,| 413.) [G.W.] SARGANTHA. [Sekgitctia.] SARGARAUSE'NE (SotryatKwnw^), \ istnaof Cappadocia, on the east of Commagene iad ithe frontiers of Pont us, containing, acoanuag iPtolemy (v. 6. § 13), the town* of Phuca, 1gena, Gauraena, Sabalassus, Arianthin. ud!ruga. (Strab. xii. pp. 534, 537; PUn. tl1) [i SARGETLA (Zapyrria, Dion Cass, urriu. I2ap7«»Tia, TzeU. Chdl. ii. 61; "Hapyirtm^ TaiChil. vi. 53), a river of Dicta, upon waica ithe royal palace of Deoebalus, This rim Dmidentified with the Strei or Strey, a tribolarr el:Marosch, since we know that SariniarprtLeithe residence of Decebalus. [SAunz&cr(Ukert, vol. iii. pt. it p. 603.) SARI PHI MONTES (ra 2ap*^«of mountains, extending, according to Ptoleaf,!tween Maigiana and Ariana, and the waUohflseveral small streams. They are probaUf tnow called the Ilazdras. Matinert (v. 2, p. 65),supposed them the same as theDion. Perieg. v. 1099), but this Uooutrirjlprobability. SARMA'LIUS (It.AnL p. 203) orS.4(Za-pfxaJyta, Ptol. v. 4. § 8), a town ia Ithe road from Ancyra to Tavia or ravinn, iiposed by some to be the modern KarndjeUL |~ SARMATIA (Zappdna: Etk.name of a country in Europe and Asia. Fur tlier and Greek forms of the word see Saca That S-rm is the same root as >-r\ iSarmatae and Serbi, Servi, Sfjrdbi, Srb, &C, Jbe, not only the name for the sambut also the same name, lias beenthat upon not unreasonable grounds. TW Iseems to have tit>t reached the Greeksthe Scythians of the lower Dnieper and Japplied it to a non-Scythic population,this non-Scythic population uaed itand whether it was limited to them fcf 1thians, is uncertain. It was a name, toa,'the Getae used ; also one used by some of 1nonian populations. It was, probably, the <the Sarmatians themselves used partially.thours generally, just like Galli, Gryci, iothers. More important than the origin of the \the questions concerning (1) the aim,pulation to which it applied. Oar chief 1on this point is Ptolemy; Strabo**dental and fragmentary. The area given by Strabo to theGermani, extends as far as theeven the Am, the Tyrigetaewestern of the non-German txaiatrirs. <east, and the Bastarnae being doubtfulhaps, German (vii. p. 289). Ofnations, such as the JaxYge:olani, a brief notice ia given, witspecial statement as to theirmatian aJHnities. In Asia, the coaatxr otf 1romatae is called the plains, of theopposed to the mountains of Caucm&ns.dinate size given to Germany by Straboobliterates, not only SannaDa, bat ScjtUa> ias well. Pliny's notices are as incidental aanearly as brief,—the development of <