OCR Output HNI& SINOPE. 1007 dr. II). It would seem to comprehend espe-JIt tie peat plain land of Babylonia, aa dis-fiiilvd from Assyria and Elymaia (6'e». xiv. 1),1 p<A«My extended to the junction of the TigrisJ Eiahrates, if not as far as the Persian gulf.m lave, without reason, confounded it with Sin-n, the modem Smgar. [V.]SI.SIS it..) a itotnan colony in the district ofit«i» in Armenia Minor. (PtoL v. 7. § 5.) The•»frM mentioned by any other writer, but it isK»ir that it may be the same place aa the one•eh Pmcopius (dc ActL iii. 4) simply callst» » [L. S.] 5LNXA. 1. (S»a, Ptel t. 18. §§ 11, 12), the • :two towns in Mesopotamia, one on the S.inly of M»unt Masius, the other more to the. «i the Tigria. 1 (Imi, Strab. xvi. p. 755), a mountain fcC- • ■« Libanon. [T. H. D.]3N(XX1A (Zamume), was the name given inn: timea to the smallest of the three islands 'aa the Itolt di Puma. It is situated abouts*s to the XE. of l'ontia (Ponzti), the principalof the group (Plin. iii. 6. a. 12; Mel. ii. 7. §i [E. H. B.] il.WPE (J.wfs-n: F.th. livvxtvi), the mostirtaat of all the Greek colonies on the coast ofEuine, was situated on a peninsula on the coast'i^ilajnnia, at a distance of 700 stadia to the rfCapeCarambia (Strab. xii. p. 546; Mnrcian,J; Ktutath. ad I)wn.Ptr. 775.) It was a veryn\ place, its origin being referred to the Argo-k ud to Sinope, the daughter of Asopus.•Han. Kbod. ii. 947 ; Val. Flacc. v. 108.) butHr;opiio» themselves referred the foundation of'dty to Autolycus, a companion of Heracles, andtf the Argonauts, to whom they paid heroican (Strab. /. c). Bat this ancient town was- %ci powerlcKs, until it received colonists fromtM. The Milesians were in their turn dis-bj the Cimmerians, to whom Herodotus (iv.•mat to assign the foundation of the city;•ben the Cimmerians were driven from Asia*. Epheaians (in b. c. 632) recovered posses-taeir colory. (Scymn. 204, foil.; Anonym.fi P. £. p. 8.) i ■ ■ leader of the first Milesian7 * called Ambron, and the leaders of the•t Coos and Critines; though this latter state- •rans to be a mistake, as Eustathius andtuns B. (a. r.) call the founder Critius, a nativet After this time Sinope soon rose to great'aod prosperity. About the commencement ofti"r»moe>ian War theSinopians, who were thenml by a tyrant, Thnesileon, received assist-ftira the Athenians; and after the expulsion ofyraot, 600 Athenian colonists were sent to • (Pin*. PtricL 20). At the time of theI of the Ten Thou-and under Xenophon, Sinope • *eaiihy and flourishing city, whose dominionW to the river Halys, and which exerciseduHuence over the tribes of Paphlau'unta and■ticia, independently of its colonies of Cerasus,'». and Trapezus. It was mainly owing toMuUnce of the Sinopians, that the return -neks were enabled to procure ships to conveyto Heracieia(Xeno[>h. A nab. r. 5. § 3; Arriau,IP. £ p. 17; Diod. Sic. xir. 30, 32; Amm.ixii. 8)l Strain* also acknowledges that thei the Siaopiatis held a distinguished position the naraj powers of the Greeks; it wasm of the tux me as far as the entrance of the Bosporns, and divided with Byzantium thelucrative tunny fisheries in that sea. In the timeof Ptolemy Soter, Sinope was governed by a prime,Scydrothemis, to whom the Egyptian king sent anembassy. (Tac. Hut. iv. 82, foil.) Its greatwealth, and above all its excellent situation, excitedthe cupidity of the kings of Pontus. It was firstassailed in b. c. 220. by Mithridates IV., the great­grandfather of Mithridates the Great, Poly bins(iv. 56), who is our principal authority for tinsevent, describes the situation of Sinope in the follow­ing manner: It is built on a peninsula, whichadvances out into the sea. The ittthmus whichconnects the peninsula with the mainland is notmore than 2* stadia in breadth, and is entirelybarred by the city, which comes up close to it. butthe remainder of the peninsula stretches out tow.misthe sea. It is quite flat and of easy access from thetown; but on the bide of the sea it is precipitousall around, and dangerous for vessels, and presentsvery few spots fit for effecting a landing. This de­scription is confirmed by Strabo (xii. p. 545), for hesays that the city was built on the neck of thepeninsula; but he adds, that the l itter was girt allaround with rocks hollowed out in the form ufbasins. At high water these basins were filled,and rendered the shore inaccessible, especially asthe rocks were everywhere so pointed that it wasimpossible to walk on them with bare feet TheSinopians defended themselves bravely againstMithridates, and the timely aid of the Hhodians inthe end enabled them to compel the agre&sor toraise the siege. Pharnaces, the successor ofMithridates IV., was more successful. He attackedthe city unexpectedly, and finding its inhabitantsunprepared, easily overpowered it, B.C. 183. fromthis time Sinope became the chief town, and theresidence of the kings of Pontus. (Strab. /. c;Polyb. xxiv. 10.) Mithridates, sumamed Euergetcs,the successor of Pharnaces, was 'assassinated utSinope in b. c. 120 (Strab. x. p. 477). His son,Mithridates the Great, was born and educated atSinope, and did much to embellish and strengthenhis birthplace: he formed a harbour on each aide ofthe isthmus, built naval arsenals, and constructedadmirable reservoirs for the tunny fisheries. Afterhis disaster at Cyzicus, the king intrusted ttiecommand of the garrison of Sinope to Bacciiides,who acted as a cruel tyrant; and Sinope, pressed but hfrom within and from without, was at last takenby Lucullus, after a brave resistance. (Strab. L c;Plut. Lucull. 18; Appian, Bell Mithr. 83;Memnon, in Phot. Cod. p. 238, ed. Bekker.) Lu­cullus treated the Sinopians themselves mildly,having put the Pontian garrison to the sword; andhe left them in jiossessiou of all their works of art,which embellished the city, with the exceptthe statue of Autolycus, a work of Slhems, and thesphere of Billarus. (Strab. Plut. ii cc; Cic prv Ltg.Man. 8.) Lucullus restored the city to its am antfreedom and indejtendence. But when Pharrm es,the son of Mithridates, had been routed at Zeia,Caesar took Sinope under his protection, and esta­blished Roman colonies there, as we must infer f romcoins bearing the inscription Col. Jul. Caes. PehxSinope. In the time of Strabo Sinope was still alarge, splendid, and well fortified city; fur hedescribes it as surrounded by strong walls, andadorned with fine porticoes, squares, gymiiasia. andother public edifices. Its commerce indeed dec lined,yet the tunny fisheries formed an inexhaustible