OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 140 his valiant but unsuccessful efforts to resist the progressof the Turks. His defeat and captivity inflicted a deadlywound on the Byzantine monarchy of the east; andafter he was released from the chains of the sultan, hevainly sought his wife and his subjects. His wife hadbeen thrust into a monastery, and the subjects of Roma-nus had embraced the rigid maxim of the civil law, thata prisoner in the hands of the enemy is deprived, as bythe stroke of death, of all the public and private rightsMichael o^ a citizen. In the general consternation, theyn. Para- Csesar John asserted the indefeasible right of pinnces, ° Androni- his three nephews: Constantinople listened tostaLtine°n his voice; and the Turkish captive was pro-XIL claimed in the capital, and received on theA.D.ion, frontier, as an enemy of the republic. RomanusAugust. was not more fortunate in domestic than inforeign war: the loss of two battles compelled him toyield, on the assurance of fair and honorable treatment;but his enemies were devoid of faith or humanity; and,after the cruel extinction of his sight, his wounds wereleft to bleed and corrupt, till in a few daysjie was re­lieved from a state of misery. Under the triple reignof the house of Ducas, the two younger brothers werereduced to the vain honours of the purple; but theeldest, the pusillanimous Michael, was incapable ofsustaining the Roman sceptre; and his surname of Pa-rapinaces denotes the reproach which he shared with anavaricious favourite, who enhanced the price, and di­minished the measure, of wheat. In the school of Psel-lus, and after the example of his mother, the son ofEudocia made some proficiency in philosophy andrhetoric; but his character was degraded, rather thanennobled, by the virtues of a monk, and the learning ofa sophist. Strong in the contempt of their sovereignand their own esteem, two generals at the head of theEuropean and Asiatic legions assumed the purple atAdrianople and Nice. Their revolt was in the samemonth; they bore the same name of Nicephorus; but