OCR Output lxviii NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. [33] Tertullian (Apolog. c. 23.) alleges the con­fession of the Demons themselves as often as theywere tormented by the Christian exorcists. [39] Tertullian has written a most severe treatiseagainst idolatry, to caution his brethren againstthe hourly danger of incurring that guilt. Re-cogita sylvam, et quanta; latitant spinæ. De ldo-latria, c. 10. [40] The Roman senate was always held in atemple or consecrated place (Aulus Gellius, xiv. 7.).Before they entered on business, every senator droptsome wine and frankincense on the altar. Sueton.in August, c. 3 j. [41] See Tertullian, De Spcctaculis. This se­vere reformer shews no more indulgence to a tra­gedy of Euripides, than to a combat of gladiators.The dress of the actors particularly offends him. Bythe use of the lofty buskin, they impiously strive toadd a cubit to their stature, c. 23. '[42] The ancient practice of concluding the en­tertainment with libations, may be found in everyclastic. Socrates and Seneca, in their last moments,made a noble application of this custom. Postquamslagnum calidæ aquae introiit, respergens proximo*servorum, addita voce, libare se liquorem iliumJovi Liberatori. Tacit. Annal. xv. 64. [43] See the elegant but idolatrous hymn ofCatullus, on the nuptials of Manlius and Julia.O Hymen, Hymensce lo! Quis huic Deo comparierausit? [44] The ancient funerals (in those of Misenusand Pallas) are no less accurately described byVirgil, than they are illustrated by his commen­tator Servius. The pile itself was an altar, theflames were fed with the blood of victims, and allthe assistants were sprinkled with lustral water. [45] Tertullian de Idolatria, c. 11. [46] See every part of Montsaucon's Anti­quities. Even the reverses of the Greek and Ro-man coins were frequently of an idolatrous nature.Here indeed the scruples of the Christian were sus­pended by a stronger passion. [47] Tertullian de Idolatria, c. 2c, 21, jz. Ifa Pagan friend (on the occasion perhaps of sneez­ing) used the familiar expression of " Jupiter bless"you," the Christian was obliged to protest againstthe divinity of Jupiter. [48] Consult the most laboured work of Ovid, hisimperfect Fasti. He finished no more than the firstsix months of the year. The compilation ofMacrobins is called the Saturnalia, but it is only asmall part of the first book that bears any relationto the title. [49] Tertullian has composed a defence, or ratherpanegyric, of the rash action of a Christian soldier,who, by throwing away his crown of laurel, had ex­posed himself and his brethren to the most imminentdanger. By the mention of the emperors (Severusand Caracalla) it is evident, notwithstanding thewishes of M. de Tillemont, that Tertullian com­posed his treatise De Corona, long before he was en­gaged in the errors of the Montanists. See MemoiresEcclesiastiqucs, torn. iii. p. 384. [50] In particular, the first book of the TusculanQuestions, and the treatise De Senectute, and theSomnium Scipionis, contain, in the most beautifullanguage, every thing that Grecian philosophy,or Roman good sense, could possibly suggest on thisdark but important subject. [51] The pre-existence of human souls, so far atleast as that doctrine is compatible with religion,was adopted by many of the Greek and Latin fa-thers. See Beausobre, Hist, du Manicheisme, 1. vi,c. 4. [52] See Cicero pro Cluent. c. 6:. C-rsir ap.Sallust de Bell. Catilin. c. 50. Juvenal Saiir. ii. Esse aliquos manes, et subterranea regna, • i '• t'" Nec pueri credunt, nisi qui nondum ære lavantur. - [53] The xith book of the Odyssey gives a verydreary and incoherent account of the infernalshades. Pindar and Virgil have embellished thepicture; but even those poets, though more correitthan their great model, are guilty of very strangeinconsistencies. See Bayle, Reponscs au questionsd' un Provincial, part iii. c. 22. [54] See the xvith Epistle of the first Book ofHorace, the xiiith Satire of Juvenal, and the iidSatire of l:ersius: these popular discourses expressthe sentiment and language of the muhitude. [55] The Druids borrowed sums of money onbonds made payable to the creditor in.the other world. 3