OCR Output Air. 1099.] 211 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the kingdom; and farther, why didst thou de­liver oracles to him concerning futurity? forthou couldst not be unacquainted that hehad fled away from me; and that he hatedmy family." But the high-priest did not at­tempt to deny what he had done, but con­fessed boldly that he had supplied him withthose things; not to gratify David, but Saulhimself; and he said, " I did not know that hewas thy adversary, but a servant of thine,who was very faithful to thee; and a captainover a thousand of thy soldiers; and what ismore than these, thy son-in-law. Men do notchoose to confer such favours on their adver­saries; but on those who are esteemed tobear the highest good will and respect tothem. Nor is this the first time that I pro­phesied for him; but have done it at othertimes, as well as now. And when he told methat he was sent by thee to perform some­thing in great haste; if I had furnished himwith nothing that he desired, I should havethought it was rather in contradiction to thee,than to him. Wherefore do not thou enter­tain any ill opinion of me, nor do thou have asuspicion of what I then thought an act ofhumanity, from what is now told thee ofDavid's attempts against thee; for I did tohim as to thy friend, and son-in-law, and cap­tain of a thousand; and not as to thine adver­sary." The high-priest's defence, however, hadno effect upon Saul, for his fear was so pre­valent, that he could not give credit to anyapology that was very just. So he commandedhis armed men to kill him, and all his kindred.But as they durst not touch the high-priest,but were more afraid of disobeying God thanthe king; he ordered Doeg the Syrian to kill * Eighty-five, Hebrew. Three hundred and five,Septuagint. t Nob was not a city allotted to the priests; nor hadthe prophets, that we know of, any particular cities allottedto them. It seems the tabernacle was now at Nob; andprobably a school of the prophets was here also. It wasfull two days journey on foot from Jerusalem. The num­ber of priests here slain, in Josephus, is 385, and but 85,in our Hebrew copies; yet are they 305 in the Septuagint.I prefer Josephus's number: the Hebrew having, I sup­pose, only dropped the hundreds, the other the tens. Thiscity Nob seems to have been the chief, or perhaps theonly seat of the family of Ithamar; which here perished,according to God's former terrible threatenings to Eli,1 Sam. ii. 27—36. iii. 11—18. J 1 Sam. xxii. 20. voL. I.—NOS. 17 & 18. them. Accordingly he took to his assistancesuch wicked men as were like himself, andslew Ahimelech and his family; which werein all three hundred and eighty-five.* Saulalso sent men to Nob,f the city of the priests,and slew all that were there, without sparingeither women or children, or any other age,and burnt it. Only there was one son ofAhimelech, whose name was Abiathar, whoescaped.J However, these things came topass as God had foretold to Eli the high-priest; when he said that his posterity shouldbe destroyed, on account of the transgressionsof his two sons. Now Saul,|| by perpetrating so barbarousa crime, and murdering the whole pontificalfamily, by having no pity for the infants, norreverence for the aged; and by the over­throwing the city also which God had chosenfor the property and support of the priestsand prophets which were there; and hadordained as the only city allotted for the edu­cation of such men; gives all to understandand consider the disposition of men: thatwhile they are private persons, and in a lowcondition, because it is not in their power toindulge, nor to venture upon what they wishfor, they are equitable and moderate, andpursue nothing but what is just; and bendtheir whole minds and labours that way; thenit is that they have this belief about God, thathe is present to all the actions of their lives,and that he does not only see the actions thatare done, but clearly knows those thoughts,also whence their actions arise. But whenonce they are advanced into power and au­thority, they put offall such notions; and, asif they were no other than actors upon atheatre, they lay aside their disguised parts II We have here an admirable reflection of Josephus's,concerning the general wickedness of men in great au­thority, and the danger they are in of rejecting that regardto justice and humanity; to divine providence and thefear of God, which they either really had, or pretended tohave while they were in a lower condition. It can neverbe too often perused by kings and great men; nor by thosewho expect to obtain such elevated dignities among man­kind. See the like reflections of our Josephus's, VII. 1.at the end, and VIII. 10. at the beginning, also XIII. 7.about the middle. They are to the like purport with onebranch of Agur's prayer: "One thing have I required ofthee ; deny me not before I die: give me not riches, lest Ibe full, and deny thee, and say, who is the Lord?" Prov.xxx. 7, 8, 9. Uu