OCR Output DECLINE AND FAIX [CHAP. XLVI . of Commeniiolus0 is the object of satire or comedy ratherthan of serious history, since he was even deficient in thevile and vulgar qualification of personal courage. Hissolemn councils, strange evolutions, and secret orders,always supplied an apology for flight or delay. If hemarched against the enemy, the pleasant valleys of mountHasmus opposed an insuperablebarrier; but in his retreat,he explored, with fearless curiosity, the most difficultand obsolete paths, which had almost escaped the me­mory of the oldest native. The only blood which helost was drawn, in a real or affected malady, by the lan­cet of a surgeon; and his health, which felt with exqui­site sensibility the approach of the barbarians, was uni­formly restored by the repose and safety of the winterseason. A prince who could promote and support thisunworthy favourite, must derive no glory from the acci­dental merit of his colleague Priscus.p In five succes­sive battles, which seem to have been conducted with skilland resolution, seventeen thousand two hundred barba­rians were made prisoners; near sixty thousand, withfour sons of the chagan, were slain: the Roman generalsurprised a peaceful district of the Gepidas, who sleptunder the protection of the Avars; and his last trophieswere erected on the banks of the Danube and the Teyss.Since the death of Trajan, the arms of the empire hadnot penetrated so deeply into the old Dacia: yet the suc­cess of Priscus was transient and barren ; and he was soonrecalled, by the apprehension, that Baian, with dauntless'spirit and recruited forces, was preparing to avenge hisdefeat under the walls of Constantinople.11, The theory of war was not more familiar to the camps'of Cassar and Trajan, than to those of Justinian and Mau- • See the shameful conduct of Commentiolus, in Theophylact, lib. 2. c. 10—15;lib. 7. c. 13, 14; lib. 8. c. 2.4. '' P See the exploits of Prisons, lib. 8. c. 2, 3. 1 The general detail of the war against the Avars, may be traced in the first,second, sixth, seventh, and eighth books of the History of the Emperor Maurice, bjTheophylact Simocatta. As he wrote in the reign of Heraclius, he had no temptationto flatter; but his want of judgment renders him diffuse in trifles, and concise in themost interesting facts. . ■