OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 303 sent it to engage the enemy, with a view to gain time forrearranging his infantry; it charged with great fury andbroke through the Roman ranks;.but the Roman infantryrapidly formed in close masses and courageously withstoodthe horsemen assailing them on every side. MeanwhileSulla himself on the right wing led his cavalry againstthe exposed flank of the enemy; the Asiatic infantry gaveway before it was even properly engaged, and its giving waycarried confusion also into the masses of the cavalry. Ageneral attack of the Roman infantry, which through thewavering demeanour of the hostile cavalry gained time tobreathe, decided the victory. The closing of the gates ofthe camp, which Archelaus ordered to check the flight, onlyincreased the slaughter, and when the gates at length wereopened, the Romans entered at the same time with theAsiatics. It is said that Archelaus brought not a twelfthpart of his force in safety to Ohalcis; Sulla followed him tothe Euripus; he was not in a position to cross that narrowarm of the sea. It was a great victory, but the results were trifling, slight effectpartly because of the want of a fleet, partly because the »f the vic-Roman conqueror instead of pursuing the vanquished was tor-v'under the necessity in the first instance of protecting himselfagainst his own countrymen. The sea was still exclusivelycovered by Pontic squadrons, which now showed themselveseven to the westward of the Malean promontory; even afterthe battle of Chaeronea Archelaus landed troops on Zacyn-thus and made an attempt to establish himself on thatisland. Moreover Lucius Flaccus had in the meanwhile Sulla andactually landed with two legions in Epirus, not without Flaccus.having sustained severe loss on the way from storms andfrom the war-vessels of the enemy cruising in the Adriatic;his troops were already in Thessaly; Sulla had in the firstinstance to turn thither. The two Roman armies en­camped over against each other at Melitaea on the northernslope of Mount Othrys; a collision seemed inevitable. ButFlaccus, after he had opportunity of convincing himself thatSulla's soldiers were by no means inclined to betray theirvictorious leader to the totally unknown democratic com­mander-in-chief, but that on the contrary his own advancedguard began to desert to Sulla's camp, evaded a conflict towhich be was in no respect equal, and set out towards thenorth, with the view of getting through Macedonia and