OCR Output 418 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. of a just retaliation, they renounced their feeble and dis­orderly independence: the advantages of regal govern­ment, union, secrecy, and vigour, were unanimously con-Amiiaris, fessed; and Autharis, the son of Clepho, had alreadythe8Lom- attained the strength and reputation of a warrior. Un-a"d.'584 ^er tne stanc'ard of their new king, the conquerors of—590. Italy withstood three successive invasions, one of whichwas led byChildebert himself, the last of the Merovin­gian race who descended from the Alps. The first expe­dition was defeated by the jealous animosity of the Franksand Alemanni. In the second they were vanquished ina bloody battle, with more loss and dishonour than theyhad sustained since the foundation of their monarchy.Impatient for revenge, they returned a third time withaccumulated force, and Autharis yielded to the fury ofthe torrent. The troops and treasures of the Lombardswere distributed in the walled towns between the Alpsand the Apennine. A nation, less sensible of danger,than of fatigue and delay, soon murmured against thefolly of their twenty commanders; and the hot vapoursof an Italian sun infected with disease those tramontanebodies which had already suffered the vicissitudes of in­temperance and famine. The powers that were inade­quate to the conquest, were more than sufficient for thedesolation of the country; nor could the trembling na­tives distinguish between their enemies and their deliver­ers. If the junction of the Merovingian and imperialforces had been effected in the neighbourhood of Milan,perhaps they might have subverted the throne of theLombards; but the Franks expected six days the signalof a flaming village, and the arms of the Greeks wereidly employed in the reduction of Modena and Parma,which were torn from them after the retreat of theirtransalpine allies. The victorious Autharis asserted hisclaim to the dominion of Italy. At the foot of the Rhae-tian Alps, he subdued the resistance, and rifled the hiddentreasures of a sequestered island in the lake of Comum.