OCR Output Xti PREFACE. are used, which Thucydides ever studiously avoided. Suchfrequently occur in the midst of some grand circumstance,which they throw into a kind of burlesque, and may excite areader's laughter. The English language has gone througha great variation, hath been highly polished, since Mr. Hobbeswrote. Hence, though his terms be in general very intelli­gible, yet they have not that neatness, precision, and dignity,to which the polite and refined writers within the last centuryhave habituated our eats. And, after all, I am inclined tothink, that Mr. Hobbes either executed in great haste, or per­formed his revisals in a very cursory and negligent manner.I am inclined to think so from the very many passages, neces­sary and emphatical periods, nay sometimes in the veryspeeches, which to my great surprise I have found omittedin his translation. A particle, an epithet, or even a comma,may with the greatest attention sometimes be dropped in along work. But the omissions in Mr. Hobbes are too nu­merous and important, to be excused in any tolerable con­sistence with repeated care and circumspection. Monsieur Bayle hath ascribed the translation of Thucy­dides by Mr. Hobbes to a motive of which he hath not leftthe least hint himself in his preface ;—" in order to shew the" English, in the history of the Athenians, the disorders and" confusions of a democratical government." Mr. Hobbescould not possibly, so long before they happened, foresee thestrange revolutions, that were soon to take place in the go­vernment of his country. The very actors in them couldnot possibly discern the consequences of their own embroil­ments. Some violent incroachments had indeed been madeon the liberty and property of Englishmen, and a spirit of dis­content began to spread throughout the nation. But it can­not be supposed, that the plan of a commonwealth was form­ed at that time, or for several years after. The history ofThucydides abundantly shews, how dangerous and destruc­tive is faction in a State ; that severe or wanton power maymake men desperate ; and that liberty abused may make