OCR Output 12 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. rians lying in ambush to kill him. So the king did as the pro­phet exhorted him, and avoided his going a hunting. And whenBenhadad missed of the success of his lying in ambush, he waswroth with his own,servants, as if they had betrayed his am-bushment to Joram, and sent for them, and said they werethe betrayers of his secret counsels; and he threatened that hewould put them to death, since such their practice was evident,because he had intrusted this secret to none but them, and yet itwas made known to his enemy. And when one that was pre­sent said, that " he should not mistake himself; nor suspect that"they h.ad discovered to his enemy his sending men to kill him,"but that he ought to know that it was Elisha the prophet"who discovered all to him, and laid open all his counsels," hegave order that they should send some to learn in what city Eli­sha dwelt. Accordingly those thatwere sent brought word, thathe was in Dothan: wherefore Benhadad sent to that city a greatarmy, with horses and chariots, to take Elisha; so they encom­passed the city round about by night, and kept him therein con­fined: but when the prophet's servant in the morning perceivedthis, and that his enemies sought to take Elisha, he came runningand crying out after a disordered manner to him, and told himof it; but he encouraged him, and bid him not be afraid, andto despise the enemy, and trust in the assistance of God, and washimself without fear; and he besought God to make manifestto his servant his power and presence, so far as was possible, inorder to the inspiring him with hope and courage. According­ly God heard the prayer of the prophet, and made the servantsee a multitude of chariots and horses encompassing Elisha, tillhe laid aside his fear, and his courage revived at the sight ofwhat he supposed was come to their assistance. After this Eli­sha did farther entreat God, that he would dim the eyes of theirenemies, and cast a mist before them, whereby they might notdiscern him. When this was done, he went into the midst ofhis enemies, and asked them who it was that they came to seek?and when they replied, the prophet Elisha, he promised he woulddeliver him to them, if they would follow him to the city wherehe was. So these men were so darkened by God in their sightand in their mind, that they followed him very diligently; andwhen Elisha had brought them to Samaria, he ordered Joramthe king to shut the gates, and to place his own army round forth offer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord,ndds, In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goethinto the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hands, andI bow myself in the house of Rimmon; when I how down myself in the houseof Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy servant in this thing. And Elisha said, Go inpeace." This looks like a prophet's permission for being partaker in idolatry itself,out of compliance with an idolatrous court.