OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. Jli) tent with the title of mother of Theophilus, his son andsuccessor. The character of Theophilus is a rare exam-.Di P^ in which religious zeal has allowed, and -, '-':„•,. * ™ perhaps magnified, the virtues of a heretic, anda persecutor. His valour was.often felt by the ene­mies, and his justice by the Subjects, of the monarchy;but the valour of Theophilus was rash and fruitless,and his justice arbitrary and cruel. He displayed thebanner of the cross against the Saracens; but his fiveexpeditions were concluded by a signal overthrow;Amorium, the native city of his ancestors, was levelledwith the ground, and from his military toils, he derivedonly the surname of the Unfortunate. The wisdom ofa sovereign is comprised in the institution of laws andthe choice of magistrates, and while he seems withoutaction, his civil government revolves round his centrewith the silence and order of the planetary system. Butthe justice of Theophilus was fashioned on the modelof the oriental despots, who, in personal and irregularacts of authority, consult the reason or passion of themoment, without measuring the sentence by the law, orthe penalty by the offence. A poor woman threw her­self at the emperor's feet to complain of a powerfulneighbour, the brother of the empress, who had raisedhis palace-wall to such an inconvenient height, that herhumble dwelling was excluded from light and air! Onthe proof of the fact, instead of granting, like an ordi­nary judge, sufficient or ample damages to the plaintiff,the sovereign adjudged to her use and benefit the pa­lace and the ground. Nor was Theophilus content withthis extravagant satisfaction; his zeal converted a civiltrespass into a criminal act; and the unfortunate patri­cian was stripped and scourged in the public place ofConstantinople. For some venial offences, some defectof equity or vigilance, the principal ministers, a prefect,a quaestor, a captain of the guards, were banished, ormutilated, or scalded with boiling pitch, or burnt alive