OCR Output OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 365 first enterprise was against the important place of Boulogne. Astupendous mole, raised across the entrance of the harbour, inter­cepted all hopes of relief. The town surrendered after an ob- A. D» 292,stinate defence; and a considerable part of the naval strength ofCaraufius fell into the hands of the besiegers. During the threeyears, which Constantius employed in preparing a fleet adequate tothe conquest of Britain, he secured the coast of Gaul, invaded thecountry of the Franks, and deprived the usurper of the assistanceof those powerful allies. Before the preparations were finished, Constantius received the A.0.294, -His death. intelligence of the tyrant's death, and it was considered as a surepresage of the approaching victory. The servants of Carausiusimitated the example of treason, which he had given. He wasmurdered by his first minister Allectus, and the assassin succeeded tohis power and to his danger. But he possessed not equal abilitieseither to exercise the one, or to repel the other. He beheld, withanxious terror, the opposite shores of the continent, already silledwith arms, with troops, and with vessels; for Constantius had veryprudently divided his forces, that he might likewise divide the at­tention and resistance of the enemy. The attack was at length A. D. 295.made by .the principal squadron, which, under the command of the Britain bypræfect Asclepiodotus, an officer of distinguished merit, had been ConstantluSkassembled in the mouth of the Seine. So imperfect in those timeswas the art of navigation, that orators have celebrated the daringcourage of the Romans, who ventured to set sail with a side wind,and on a stormy day. The weather proved favourable to theirenterprise. Under the cover of a thick fog, they escaped the fleetof Allectus, which had been stationed off the Isle of Wight toreceive them, landed in safety on some part of the western coast;and convinced the Britons, that a superiority of naval strength willnot always protect their country from a foreign invasion. As­clepiodotus had no sooner disembarked the imperial troops, than he set