OCR Output AN. 237 1078.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the son of Jehoiada. His elder sons were nearhis body, and had the care of it also. He also called to mind the covenants andthe oaths he had made with Jonathan, theson of Saul; and the friendship and affectionJonathan had for him. For besides all therest of his excellent qualities, with which hewas endowed; he was also exceeding mindfulof such as had at other times bestowedbenefits upon him. He therefore gave orderthat inquiry should be made, whether any ofJonathan's lineage were living; to whom hemight make return of that familiar acquaint­ance which Jonathan had had with him; andfor which he was still debtor. And whenone of Saul's freed men was brought to him,who was acquainted with those of his familythat were still living, he asked him, whetherhe could tell him of any one belonging toJonathan that was now alive; and capableof a requital of the benefits he had receivedfrom Jonathan? the man replied that a sonof his was remaining, whose name was Me-phibosheth; but that he was lame of his feet,for that when his nurse heard that the fatherand grandfather of the child were fallen inthe battle, she snatched him up, and fledaway, and let him fall from her shoulders,and his feet were lamed. So when he hadlearned where, and by whom he was broughtup, he sent messengers to Machir, to the cityLodebar; for with him was the son of Jona­than brought up, and sent for him to come tohim. So when Mephibosheth came to theking, he fell on his face, and worshipped him.But David encouraged him, and bid him beof good cheer, and expect better times. Sohe gave him his father's house, and all theestate which his grandfather Saul was in pos­session of, and bade him come and diet withhim, at his own table, and never to be absentone day. And when the youth had wor­shipped him, on account of his words, andgifts given to him; he called for Ziba, and told him, that he had given the youth hisfather's house, and all Saul's estate. He alsoordered that Ziba should cultivate his land,and take care of it, and bring him the profitsof all to Jerusalem. Accordingly Davidbrought him to his table every day; and be­stowed upon the youth, Ziba, and his sons,who were in number fifteen, and his servants,who were in number twenty. When the kinghad made these appointments, and Ziba hadworshipped him, and promised to do all thathe had bidden him, he went his way. So thatthis son of Jonathan dwelt at Jerusalem, anddieted at the king's table, and had the samecare that a son could claim taken of him. He also had himself a son.Micha. * whom he named CHAP. VI. OF THE WAR WAGED AGAINST THE AMMONITES, AND ITSHAPPY CONCLUSION. ABOUT thist time died Nahash, king ofthe Ammonites, who was a friend ofDavid's.J And when his son had succeeded _his father in the kingdom, David sent ambas­sadors to him to comfort him; and exhortedhim to take his father's death patiently, andto expect that he would continue the samekindness to himself, which he had shewed tohis father. But the princes of the Ammonitestook this message in evil part, and not asDavid's kind disposition, gave reason to takeit, and they excited the king to take it; andsaid that David had sent men to spy out thecountry, and what strength it had, under thepretence of humanity and kindness. Theyfurther advised him not to give heed toDavid's words; lest he should be deluded byhim, and so fall into an inconsolable calamity.Accordingly Nahash's son, the king of theAmmonites, thought these princes spake whatwas more probable than the truth wouldadmit; and so abused the ambassadors that quently must be received into the inmost confidence.For whether the office of a Lord Chancellor was con­sistent with the constitution of the Jewish state, a modernauthor seems to doubt. History of the Life of King David,vol. 2. B. * 1 Chron. viii. 34. t About an. 1078 B. C. I What the particular benefits which David had re­ceived from Nahash were, we are no where told in Scrip­ture; but some of the Jews say, that he fled to him, when he durst stay no longer with Achish king of thePhilistines, and that he received him very kindly; others,that he entertained his relations, when the king of Moab,to whom he had committed them, slew some of them:but the most likely opinion is, that as he was a bitter enemyto Saul, who had given him a great overthrow, he, forthat very reason, became a friend to David, when he per­ceived how Saul persecuted him, and thereupon mightsend him relief and assistance, and perhaps offer him pro­tection in his kingdom. Patrick's Commentary. B Zz2