OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 199 "And many other such things did he prophesy relating to that"place." 2. And this was what Onias wrote to king Ptolemy. Nowany one may observe his piety, and that of his sister and wifeCleopatra's, by that epistle which they wrote in answer to it;for they laid the blame and the transgression of the law uponthe head of Onias. And this was their reply: "King Ptolemy"and queen Cleopatra to Onias, send greeting: We have read"thy petition, wherein thou desirest leave to be given thee to"purge that temple which is fallen down at Leontopolis, in the"Nomus of Heliopolis, and which is named from the country"Buhastis; on which account we cannot but wonder that it"should be pleasing to God to have a temple erected in a"place so unclean, and so full of sacred animals: But since"thou sayest that Isaiah the prophet foretold this long ago,"we give thee leave to do it, if it may be done according to"vour law, and so that we may not appear to have at all of-"fended God herein." 3. So Onias took the place, and built a temple, and an altarto God, like indeed to that in Jerusalem, but smaller and poor足er. . I do not think it proper for me now to describe its dimen足sions, or its vessels, which have been already described in myseventh book of the wars of the Jews. However, Onias foundother Jews like to himself, together with priests and Levites,that there performed divine service. But we have said enoughabout this temple. 4. Now it came to pass that the Alexandrian Jews, and thoseSamaritans who paid their worship to the temple that was builtin the days of Alexander at mount Gerizzim, did now make asedition one against another, and disputed about their templesbefore Ptolemy himself, the Jews saying, that according to thelaws of Moses, the temple was to be built at Jerusalem; andthe Samaritans saying, that it was to be built at Gerizzim. two or three other copies the Hebrew word itself for the sun, Coheres, or Thares, ispreserved. And since Onias insists with the king and queen, that Isaiah's prophecycontained many other predictions relating to this place, besides the words by himrecited; it is highly probable that these were especially meant by him; and that onemain reason why he applied this prediction to himself, and to his prefecture of He足liopolis, which Dean Prideaux well proves was in that part of Egypt, and why hechose to build in that prefecture of Heliopolis, though otherwise an improper place,was this, that the same authority that he had for building this temple in Egypt, thevery same he had for building it in his own prefecture of Heliopolis also, which hedesired to do, and which he did accordingly. Dean Frideaux has much ado toavoid seeing this corruption of the Hebrew, but it being in support of his own opin足ion about this temple, be durst not see it; and indeed he reasons here in the mostivcviU and injudicious manner possible. See him at the year 149.