OCR Output 134 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK II. lance. Tarquin, to avoid the charge of so terrible an.enemy, fell back into a battalion of his men: and whilstValerius pursued him wit.li inconsiderate ardour amopgthe exiles, he was run through the body by on* of them;and the wound of ihe rider havmg no impression on thehorse's career, the Roman fell breathless to the ground,with his arms above him. Posthumius the dictator, seeing the fall of this braveman, and the bold and rapid movement of the exiles,before whom his troops were giving way, gave the signalto his own cohort, a set of brave fellows, which he keptabout .his person as body-guards, to treat every Romansoldier, who should attempt to run away, as an enemy.The Romans fmding iheir danger the same in trtmt asin rear, returned to the charge, and restored the battle.The dictator** cohort, who had not been engaged before,now, with fresh vigour and courage, fell upon the wea­ried exiles and cut them to pieces. Here the principalofficers on each side engaged a second time. The Latin general, seeing the exiles just on the pointof being surrounded by the dictator, flew to -the frontwith some companies of the .corps-de-reserve. TitusHermimus, the lieutenant-general, observing the move­ment of this corps, and Mamilius at tlieir head, distin­guished from the rest, by his dress and arms, he charg­ed him with a toice so much superior to the general ofthe horse, .that at the last push lie laid him dead withhis lance. But whitst lie- was intent upon taking thespoit-, he received a wound himself with a javelin fromthe eniifloy: and though he was carried back to thecamp vu t nous, he expired under the surgeon's hands amoment after. % Then the dictator flew to the horse, beseeching themto alight and relieve the foot, wearied out with fighting.They instantly obeyed; and having dismounted, flew tothe van, covering those in the front rarrks with theirround bucklers. 'This ga^e new spirits <o the foot, see­ing the young nobility ser-vi-ngon a level wit-h themselves,and sharing the same dangers. The 'La\ms, being thusrepulsed and struck with terror, retreated. The cavalryremounted, the better to pursue the enemy j and the in­fantry also followed.