OCR Output ITALIA. M ITALIA. distant from the Tyrrhenian sea, the olive would nolonger flourish (Ovid, Fast. iv. 683); though itgrows with the utmost luxuriance at Tibur, at adistance of little more than 15 miles, but on the^:heni slope of the Apennines. The richness andfertility of the Campanian plains, and the beautifulshores of the Bay of Naples, were proverbial; whilethe Samnite valleys, hardly removed more than aday** journey towards the interior, had all thecharacters of highland scenery. Nor was this con­trast confined to the physical characters of the regionsin question: the rude and simple mountaineers of theSaliine or Marsic valleys were not less different fromtin luxurious inhabitants of Etruria and Campania;and thfir frugal and homely habitsof life are constantlyalluded to by the Roman poets of the empire, whennothing but the memory remained of those warlikevirtue* for which they had been so distinguished atan earlier perud. Central Italy, as the term is hero used, comprisedthe countries known to the Romans as Etruria,Vmbri a (including the district adjoining the Adriaticpreviously occupied by the Galli Senones), Pick-mm, the land of the Sabixi, Vestim, Marsi,1'eugxi, JIakrlcxni, and Frkntani, all Sam-mi jt, together witli Latjum (in the widest sense ofthe name) and Campania. A more detailed ac-cuant of the physical geography of these severalleciona. as well as of the people that inhabited them,will be found in the respective articles. 3. Soi:tiikrn Italt, according to the distino-ti-Hi above established, comprises the southern partoi" tlie peninsula, from the river Silams on the W.,and the f'rento on the E., to the lapygian pro-ni"ntTT on the Ionian, and that of Leucopetratowards the Sicilian, sea. It thus includes the fourprovince* or districts of Apulia, Calabria (intb<- Ionian sense of the name), Lucania, andBRt'TTif m. The physical geography of this regioni* in great part determined by the chain of theApennines, which, from the frontiers of Saninium, iscontinued through the heart of Lucania in a broadma** of mountains, which is somewhat narrowed asit enters the Brutiian peninsula, but soon spreadsout again sufficiently to fill up almost the whole ofthat iii«trict from shore to shore. The extremefcratbern mass of the Apennines forms, indeed, adetached mountain range, which in its physicalcharacters and direction is more closely connected*:th the mountains in the NE. of Sicily than withthe proper chain of the Apennines [Afknninus];so that the notion entertained by many ancientwriter* that Sicily bad formerly been joined to themainland at Khegium, though wholly false withnrfcrcTKT to historical times, is undoubtedly true in» geological sense. The name of the Apennines is,however, universally given by geographers to thewhole range which terminates in the bold pro­montory uf Leucopetra {Capo delT Armi). Eart of the Apennines, and S. of the Krento, thereextends a broad plain from the foot of the moun­tains to the sea, forming the greater part of Apulia,cr the tract now known as I'uglia piana; while,& of this, an extensive tract ot hilly country (not,however, rising to any considerable elevation) branches«T from the Apennines near Venusia, and extends•long the frontiers of Apulia and Lucania, till it■fpruachea the sea between Egnatia and Krundu-aium. The remainder of the peninsula of Calabriaor Mes&apia, though it may be considered in somedecree as a cuutinuation of the same tract, presents notliing that can be called a range of hills, muchless of mountains, as it is erroneously represented onmany maps. [Calabria.] Between the centralmass of the Apennines (which occupies the heart ofLucania) and the gulf of Tarentum, is another broadhilly tract, gradually descending as it approachesthe shores of the gulf, which are bordered by a stripof alluvial plain, varying in breadth, but nowhereof great extent. The Apennines do not attain to so great an eleva­tion in the southern part of the Italian peninsula asin its more central regions; and, though particularsummits rise to a considerable height, we do nothere meet with the same broad mountain tracts orupland valleys as further northward. The centre ofLucania is, indeed, a rugged and mountainouscountry, and the lofty groups of the Monti dHUiMaddalenat S. of Potetua, the Mtc. Pollino, on thefrontiers of Bruttium, and the Si/a, in the heart ofthe latter district, were evidently, in ancient as wellas modem times, wild and secluded districts, almostinaccessible to civilisation. But the coasts both ofLucania and Bruttium were regions of the greatestbeauty and fertility; and the tract extending alongthe shores of the Tnrentine gulf, though now wildand desolate, is cited in ancient times as an almostproverbial instance of a beautiful and desirablecountry. (Archil, ap. Atken. xii. p. 523.) Thopeninsula of Calabria or Messapia, as already re­marked by Strabo, notwithstanding the absence ofstreams and the apparent aridity of the soil, is inreality a district of great fertility, as is also thotract which extends along the coast of the Adriaticfrom Egnatia to the mouth of the Autidus; and,though the plains in the interior of Apulia are dryand dusty in summer, they produce excellent corn,and are described by Strabo as " bringing forth allthings in great abundance," (Strab. vi. p. 284.) The general form and configuration of Italy waswell known to the ancient geographers. Polybius,indeed, seems to have had a very imperfect notionof it, or was singularly unhappy in his illustration;for he describes it as of a triangular form, havingthe Alps for its base, and its two sides bounded bythe sea, the Ionian and Adriatic on the one side, theTyrrhenian and Sicilian on the other. (Pol. ii. 14.)Strabo justly objects to this description, that Italycannot be called a triangle, without allowing adegree of curvature and irregularity in the sides,which would destroy all resemblance to that figure;and that it is, in fact, wholly impossible to compareit to any geometrical figure. (Strab. v. p. 210.)There is somewhat more truth in the resemblancesuggested by Pliny,—and which seems to have beencommonly adopted, as it is referred to also by Ru-lilius (Pun. iii. 5. s. 6; Rutil. Itin. ii. 17) —"to theleaf of an oak-tree, though this would imply thatthe projecting portions or promontories on each sidowere regarded as more considerable than they reallyare. With the exception of the two great penin­sulas or promontories of Calabria (Messapia) andBruttium, which are attached to its lower extremity,the remainder of Italy, from the Padua and thoMacra southwards, has a general oblong form; andStrabo truly enough describes it, when thus con­sidered, as much about the same shape and sizewith the Adriatic Sea (Strab. v. p. 211.) Its dimensions are very variously stated by an­cient writers. Strabo, in the comparison just cited,calls it little less than 6000 stadia (fiOOgeog. miles)long, and about 1300 stadia in its greatest breadth;