OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 107 with the weakness of his reign, and to insult him chap.by the promise of a pardon, if he would instantly xv"abdicate the purple. "That he should confide in"the justice of his cause, and the protection of an"avenging Deity," was the only answer which honourpermitted the emperor to return. But he was sosensible of the difficulties of his situation, that he nolonger dared to retaliate the indignity which hadbeen offered to his representative. The negotiationof Philip was not, however, ineffectual, since he de­termined Sylvanus the Frank, a general of meritand reputation, to desert with a considerable bodyof cavalry, a few days before the battle of Mursa. The city of Mursa, or Essek, celebrated in mo- Battle ofdern times for a bridge of boats five miles in length, A^iassi.over the river Drave, and the adjacent morasses *, SePt, 28.has been always considered as a place of importancein the wars of Hungary. Magnentius directing hismarch towards Mursa, set fire to the gates, and, bya sudden assault, had almost scaled the walls of thetown. The vigilance of the garrison extinguishedthe flames; the approach of Constantius left him notime to continue the operations of the siege; andthe emperor soon removed the only obstacle thatcould embarrass his motions, by forcing a body oftroops which had taken post in an adjoining amphi­theatre. The field of battle round Mursa was anaked and level plain: on this ground the army ofConstantius formed, with the Drave on their right;while their left, either from the nature of their dis­position, or from the superiority of their cavalry,extended far beyond the right flank of Magnentius t.The troops on both sides remained under arms inanxious expectation during the greatest part of the • This remarkable bridge, which is flanked with towers, and supported onlarge wooden piles, was constructed, A. D. 1566, by Sultan Soliman, to facili­tate the march of his armies into Hungary. See Browne's Travels, and Bus-ching's System of Geography, vol. ii. p. 90. f This position, and the subsequent evolutions, are clearly, though conciselyidescribed by Julian, Orat. i. p 36.