OCR Output B. II. TEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 195 first with this vessel, and fetching a compass round her, runsdirectly against the Leucadian that was chasing, and instantlysinks her. By this accident, so sudden and unexpected, thePeloponnesians are thrown into consternation; and havingbesides followed the chace without any regular order, as se­cure of victory, some of the ships now dropping their oars,stopped further motion. This was an unlucky expedientwhen so near the enemy; but their design was to wait forthe greater number of ships that were yet behind. Some ofthem, being ignorant of the coast, ran upon the shelves andwere stranded. When the Athenians saw them suffer thesedistresses, their courage began to revive. Shouting out aloudwith one voice, they encouraged one another to attack. Themiscarriages of which they were this moment sensible, andtheir irrecoverable disorder, prevented the others from mak­ing any long resistance. And they soon were forced to runback again towards the station of Panormus, from whencethey came. The Athenians, chasing them thither, took thesix ships that were most behind, and recovered their own,which were in the enemy's hands by having been run ashore,and afterwards brought off in tow. Some met) besides theykilled, and made some prisoners. On board the Leucadian, which was sunk near the tradingvessel, was Timocrates the Lacedaemonian, who, when theship received the stroke that sunk her, immediately slew him­self*, and floated afterwards into the harbour of Naupactus.The Athenians, returning thither again, erected a trophy • We have here a notable proof of the peculiar spirit and genius of theSpartans. They regarded the land aa their own element, in which theywere superior to the rest of the world. And yet now they were convinced,that without practice at sea, they should never be able to pull down thepower of Athens. Their first attempts are awkward and unsuccessful -The art shewn by the Athenians in tacking round, darting out again, andsinking a ship at one stroke, put them all to a stand; and it seems made sosudden and strong an impression on Timocrates, whose passion it was to diefighting, and with wounds all before, that he could not endure the thought ofperishing in a whole skin, and therefore snatched the mument, and killedhimself for fear he should be drown-d.