OCR Output 256 P E D A N I u s. [b. VI. Roman guards that were upon the mount of Olives, and thisabout the eleventh hour of the day, as supposing, first, thatthey would not expect an onset, and, in the next place, thatthey were then taking care of their bodies, and that, there­fore, they should easily beat them. But the Romans wereapprized of their coming to attack them beforehand, and run­ning together from the neighboring camps on the sudden,prevented them from getting over their fortifications, orforcing the wall that was built about them. Upon this cameon a sharp fight, and here many great actions were per­formed on both sides ; while the Romans showed both theircourage and their skill in war, as did the Jews come on themwith immoderate violence and intolerable passion. The oneparty were urged on by shame, and the other by necessity;for it seemed a very shameful thing to the Romans to let theJews go, now they were taken in a kind of net; while theJews had but one hope of saving themselves, and that was incase they could by violence break through the Roman wall;and one, whose name was Pedanius, belonging to a party ofhorsemen, when the Jews were already beaten and forceddown into the valley together, spurred his horse on theirflank with great vehemence, and caught up a certain youngman belonging to the enemy by his ankle, as he was runningaway. The man was, however, of a robust body, and in hisarmor ; so low did Pedanius bend himself downward from hishorse, even as he was galloping away, and so great was thestrength of his right hand and of the rest of his body, as alsosuch skill had he in horsemanship. So this man seized uponthat his prey as upon a precious treasure, and carried him ashis captive to Caesar: whereupon Titus admired the man thathad seized the other for his great strength, and ordered theman that was caught to be punished [with death] for hisattempt against the Roman wall, but betook himself to thesiege of the temple, and to pressing on the raising of thebanks. 9. In the mean time the Jews were so distressed by thefights they had been in, as the war advanced higher andhigher, and creeping up to the holy house itself, that they,