OCR Output an. 462.] 401 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tongue. So he went to them and asked them,whence they came? and when their answerwas that they came from Judea, he began toinquire of them again, in what state the mul­titude was? and in what condition Jerusalemwas? They replied, that they were in a badstate;* for that their walls were thrown downto the ground: and that the neighbouring na­tions did a great deal of mischief to the Jews;while in the day time they over-ran the coun­try, and pillaged it, arid in the night did themmischief; insomuch that not a few were ledaway captive out of the country, and out ofJerusalem itself: and that the roads were, inthe day time, found full of dead men. Here­upon Nehemiah shed tears, out of commisera­tion of the calamities of his countrymen: andlooking up to heaven, he said, "How long,O Lord, wilt thou overlook our nation, whileit suffers so great miseries; and while we aremade the prey and the spoil of all men?"And while he stayed at the gate, and la­mented thus, one told him that the king wasgoing to sit down to supper. So he madehaste, and went as he was, without washinghimself, to minister to the king in his office ofcup-bearer. But as the king was very plea­sant after supper, and more cheerful thanusual, he cast his eyes on Nehemiah, andseeing him look sad, he asked him why hewas sad? Whereupon he prayed to God togive him favour, and afford nim the power ofpersuading by his words, and said:—"Howcan I, O king, appear otherwise than thus,and not be in trouble, while I hear that thewalls of Jerusalem: the city where the sepul­chres of my fathers are, thrown down to thefround, and that its gates are consumed byre? But do thou grant me the favour to goand build its wall, and to finish the buildingsof the temple."f Accordingly the king gavehim a signal, that he freely granted him whathe asked; and told him, that he should carryan epistle to the governors, that they mightpay him due honour, and afford him what- * This miserable condition of the Jews, and the capi­tal, must have been after the death of Ezra, their formergovernor, and before Nehemiah came with his commis­sion to build the walls of Jerusalem. Nor is that atall disagreeable to these histories in Josephus; sinceEzra came on the seventh, and Nehemiah not till thetwenty-fifth of Xerxes; at the interval of eighteenyears., t Nehemiah ii. 1—6. ever assistance he wanted, and as he pleased."Leave off thy sorrow then," said the king,"and be cheerful in tbs performance of thyoffice hereafter." So Nehemiah worshippedGod, and gave the king thanks for his pro­mise; and cleared up his sad and cloudycountenance, by the pleasure he had fromthe king's promises. Accordingly the kingcalled for him the next day, and gave him anepistle to be carried to Adeus the governor ofSyria, and Phoenicia, and Samaria: whereinhe sent to him to pay due honour to Nehe­miah, and to supply him with what he wantedfor his building. Now when he was come to Babylon, andhad taken with him many of his countrymen,who voluntarily followed him, he came to Je­rusalem in the twenty-fifth year of the reignof Xerxes. And when he had shewn theepistle to God,J he gave them to Adeus, andto the other governors. He also called to­gether all the people to Jerusalem, and stoodin the midst oi the temple, and made the fol­lowing speech to them. "Ye know, O Jews,that God hath kept our fathers, Abraham,and Isaac, and Jacob, in mind continually;and for the sake of their righteousness hathnot left off the care of you. Indeed he hathassisted me in granting this authority of theking to raise up our wall, and finish what iswanting of the temple. I desire you there­fore, wno well know the ill will the neigh­bouring nations bear to us, and that whenthey once are made sensible that we are inearnest about building, they will come uponus, and contrive many ways of obstructingour works, that you will, in the first place,put your trust in God, as in him that will as­sist us against their hatred; and to intermitbuilding neither night nor day; but to useall diligence, and to hasten on the work, nowwe have this especial opportunity for it."When he had said this, he gave order thatthe rulers should measure the wall, and partthe work of it among the people, according J This shewing king Xerxes's epistles to God, orlaying them open before God in the temple, is very likethe laying open the epistles of Sennacherib, before himalso by Hezekiah, 2 Kings xix. 14. Isaiah xxxvii. 14.although this last was for a memorial, to put him in mindof the enemies, in order to move the divine compassion;and the present, as a token of gratitude, for merciesalready received: as Havercamp well observes on thliplace.