OCR Output XJr.827.] 343 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. slew of them ten thousand, and took as manyprisoners alive, whom he brought to thegreat rock, which is in Arabia, and threwthem down from it headlong. He alsobrought away a great deal of prey, and vastriches from those nations. But while Ama-ziah was engaged in this expedition, thoseIsraelites whom he had hired, and then dis­missed, were very uneasy, and taking theirdismission for an affront, as supposing thatthis would not have been done to them butout of contempt, they fell upon his kingdom,and proceeded to spoil the country as far asBeth-horon, and took much cattle, and slewthree thousand men. In consequence of the victory which Araa-ziah had gotten, and the great acts he haddone, he was puffed up; and began to over­look God, who had given him the victory;and proceeded to worship the gods he hadbrought out of the country of the Amalekites.So a prophet came to him, and said, he won­dered how he could esteem them to be gods,who had been of no advantage to their own Seople, who paid them no honours; nor hadelivered them from his hands; but had over­looked the destruction of many of them, andhad suffered themselves to be carried cap­tive; for that they had been carried to Jeru­salem in the same manner as any one mighthave taken some of the enemy alive, and ledthem thither. This reproof provoked theking to anger; and he commanded the pro­phet to hold his peace, and threatened toSunish him if he meddled with his conduct,o he replied, that he should indeed holdhis peace; but foretold withal, that Godwould not overlook those attempts at innova­tion. Amaziah, however, was not able tocontain himself under that prosperity whichGod had given him, although he had affrontedGod thereupon; but in a vein of insolencehe wrote to Joash, king of Israel, com­manding that he and all his people shouldbe obedient to him, as they had formerlybeen obedient to his progenitors, David andSolomon; and giving him to understand, thatif he would not be so wise as to do what hecommanded he must fight for his dominions.Hereupon Joash returned this answer inwriting: * 8 Kings xiv. 9, 10. KING JOASH TO KING AMAZIAH. "There was a vastly tall cyprus tree inmount Lebanon, as also a thistle: this thistlesent to the cypress tree, to give the cypresstree's daughter in marriage to the thistle'sson. But as the thistle was saying this, therecame a wild beast and trod it down. Andthis may be a lesson to thee, not to be soambitious; but to be careful, lest upon thygood success in the fight against the Amale­kites, thou growest so proud, as to bringdangers upon thyself, and upon thy king­dom."* When Amaziah had read this letter, hewas more eager upon his expedition: whichI suppose, was by the impulse of God, thathe might be punished for his offence againsthim. But as soon as he led out his armyagainst Joash, and they were going to joinbattle, there came such a consternation uponthe army of Amaziah, as God, when he isdispleased, sends upon men; and discomfitedthem, even before they came to a close fight.Now it happened, that as they were scatteredabout by the terror that was upon them,Amaziah was left alone, and was taken pri­soner by the enemy. Whereupon Joashthreatened to kill him, unless he would per­suade the people of Jerusalem to open theirgates, and receive him and his army into thecity. Accordingly Amaziah was so distressed,and in such fear of his life, that he made hisenemy to be received into the city. So Joashoverthrew a part of the wall, of the length ofone hundred cubits, and drove his chariotthrough the breach into Jerusalem, and ledAmaziah captive along with him. By whichmeans he became master of Jerusalem, andtook away the treasures of God, and carriedoff all the gold and silver that was in theking's palace, and then freed the king fromcaptivity, and returned to Samaria.f Nowthese things happened to the people of Jeru­salem in the fourteenth year of the reign ofAmaziah: who after this had a conspiracyformed against him by his friends, and fledto the city Lachish, and was there slain bythe conspirators. So they took up his deadbody, and carried it to Jerusalem, and madea royal funeral for him. This was the end t 2 Kings xiv. 11 13.