OCR Output 93S SCVTIIIA. SCYTHIA. The Scythian aflinities of the Neuri are impliedrather than categorically stated; indeed, in atirttherI»art there is the special statement that the Tyrasrises out of a great lake which separates- tlie Scythianand Neurid Countries (ryv ZxvdtKijv teal tt/c Neu-ptba yT)f). This, however, must not be made toprove too touch; since the Scythians that WWconterminous with the Neuri were known bj nospecial name, but simply by the descriptive termScythae Aroteres. [Kxampaeus; Nbubl] IniSiberiati geography Xarytn = marsh. Hence Xeurimay b<" a Scythian gloss. There may also have beenmore Neuri than one, e. g. on the Xnn/m of the head­waters of tho Dnieper, i.e. of Pittsk. A fact infavour of the Neuri being Scythian is the following.The occupants of I'uUujnui, when its history com­mences, which is as late as the 13th century, are ofthe same stock with the Scythians, i. e. CumanianTurks. Not only is there no evidence of their iutro-duction being recent, hut the name Omani (XyguOmani) appears about the same parts in Ptolemy. East of the Borysthenes the Agricultural Scythaeoccupy the country as far as the Panticapet, 3 daysdistant. Northwards they extend 11 days up theIlorysthenes, where they are succeeded by a desert;the desert by the Androplia^'i, a nation peculiarand by no means Scythian (c. 19). Above theAndrophagi is a desert. The bend of the Dnieper complicates the geo­graphy here. It is safe, however, to make Kka-terinoslav the chief Georgic area, and to add to itparts of Kiev, K/ierson, and 2\>ltara, the agricul­tural conditions increasing as we move northwards.The two deserts (^prjaoi) command notice. Thefir>t is, probably, a March or political frontier, suchits the old Suevi used to have between themselvesand neighbours; at least, there is nothing in theConditions of the soil to make it a natural one. Itis described as tytjuos ^tt! roAAoV. The other isip^fios a\t}8iws, — a distinction, apparently, of somevalue. To be natural, however, it must be inter­preted forest rather than steppe. Kursk and Tsher-niyov give us the area of the A:)dn>phagi; Kurskhaving a slight amount of separate evidence iu fa­vour of its having been " by no means Scythian"(c. 18). The Uylaea, or wooded district of the LencerDnii-per, seems to have bean common ground to theScythae Georgi and Scythae Nomades; cr, perhaps,it was uninhabited. The latter extend 14 days east­ward, i. e. over Taurida, part of Ekateriwslar, andDon Kosuks, to the Gerrhus. The Palaces (to aaAetfyieni f3a.ai\i)ia) succeed;their occupants being the Royal Scythians, the bestanil most numerous of the name, who look upon theothers as their slaves. They extend, southwards,into the Crimea (ri)v TauptK-rji'), and, eastwards, asfar as the ditch dug by the offspring of the blindslaves (the statement that the Scythians blindedtheir slaves on account of the milk being one ofthe elements of the strange Servile legend previouslynoticed), and the Maeotie Emporium called Kremni.Some touch the Tanais. North of the Royal Scythians lie the Melanchlaeni(a probable translation of Karakatpak = blackbonnet), a different nation and not Scythian (c. 20),with marshes, and either a desert or a terra incog-liita above them. This distinction is, almost cer­tainly, real. At the present moment a population,to all appearances aboriginal, and neither Slavonicnor Scythian (but Ugrian or Finn), occupies parts of Feuza and Tainloc having, originally, rrtod-jifurther west and further sooth. Tolbeimautforest districts attain their nannin defeaeawaV[Mklanchlaf.ni.] The Boyal Scrthiaai carhave occupied parts of Voronezh. Kast of the Tanais it was do hnrer Smba, awthe Admits of the Sauromatae. [See S^rawum;BUDLNI; GbLOXI; ThYSSAGETAE. 1 '■- Ifctwant of definite boundaries makes it 6j&mll IIsay where the lurcae end. Beyond then t» aneast lay other Scythians, who, ha ring rrrolirt BeSjlthe Royal, settled there. Up to their distnrti SSLsoil was level and deep, beyood it nujb a-iaaf,with mountains beyond. These are ocrapwd fcftnation of Bald-heads, Hat-nosed and bt*rU<d,Snw;thians in dress, peculiar in language, collect**sTMsubstance called &trxv a tree called ia '■»*>(c.23). Their flocks and herds are few; thririaewsJJso simple that noone injures their?, &c [Aa&irriaw IsSEDONES; HvrEKBOKEI; AEISLVSPt.] is UW parts about the mountains of Uie Argippta adwas carried on by means of seven interpreter*. Ithis be the caravan trade of Ortnburff, nesrSBlminus on the Volga, and we shall nod tiatsrw,about the number of languages thai coaid St Ipresent moment be brought together a; t tatthe centre uf Orenburg. For the moiera Isian take the language uf the SmrouWae: fir!Scythian that of the modern Tartars. To lasscan add four Ugrian forms of speech,— the Xwash, the Mordwin, the Tshereruisa, and the Vswith the two forms of speech akin to theOatisII'ennian to choose the fifth fnim. The TsbjweiKazan and the Bashkirs of Omtbmry a*** ■characters at the present time,—Turk and Canlit vers. —The chief river of the Him « —thiawas the Ister [Dandbics], with its £r*mmand then the Tyras (Dniester), the Hypaais (atthe Borysthenes (Dnieper), the Panttcapes [saeaMtheHypacyris [seeCARCWA], theGen-bus [*•**■and the Tanais (Don); the feeders of* the btivflthe rivers of the present Danubian rViiiaaaSasbeing the Fcrata (Scythic. in Greek ParecasMTiarantos, the Aran*, the N'aparis, and the tkwam(cc. 47, 43). To these add, from the conatrySaJAgatbyrsi, the Maris (c. 49), or modern JfavefJTransylvania. The difference betweea the assfland modem names of rivers is nowhere greaawflhere,—the Mams being the only name djw Samwhich represents the original one; unless we ekmto hold that, word for word. Aluta = Ararat Sawfor word, indeed, Xaparis is Dnieper; but tawewrivers are different. This creates a gra%e diAawin the determination of the language to waabajnames of the Scythian rivers sJraold he reaaslYet the question is important, inasmuch awthe names, as they come down to us, we Bawlmany glasses of some lai.guage or other. Ufssawwhole, however, the circumstances under — treached Herodotus suggest the notion thai taawlScythian: e. g. the express statement tnoi f3is a Scythian form. Again; Hypsuiis is, wwavword, Kuban.— a word of which the anpeasWaflboth Asia and Europe is best explained br ^oassajit to be Scythian. On the other hand, tbew sawlittle significant in the language which. «aass|tho^e at present existing. Lest explains tl*r wssswasiScythian glosses, as they are in the Siawjc, tA)or (Jreek. The jihysical ge*>graphy of Herndotean $+fdwas a steppe, with occasional distrkia (i hasla m\\