OCR Output DISCOURSE II. li " armies of both parties on the beach, whilst a naval en-" gagement is yet under decision on the water, sympathising" in all the contest, adjusting themselves to all the various" turns of battle, by new attitudes, quick contorsions of the" body;—All these things are set before the readers in ac-" tual representation, in all the disposition, all the expres-" sion and perspicuity of picture." Through the wholecourse of the history, a battle either at land or sea is an ob­ject clear and distinct. The writer is never confounded him­self, nor throws confusion on his reader. That reader seesthe whole, from the paean of attack to the erecting of thetrophy; he discerns the whole train of fight, and beholdsexactly the loss or gain of the victory. He further assistsat the assemblies of the people and all important consulta­tions. He learns the state of affairs from the managersthemselves; he hears the debates, is let into the tempers ofthe assembly, pries into all the politics, and preconceivesthe resolution. Where the politics are bad, he will own noother could be expected from those who recommend them.Where they are sound and good, nor wilfully severed fromduty to their country, and in moral consistence with thewelfare of their fellow-creatures, the reader will applaud,and think he hath been himself discovering the fine maximswhich the author hath been teaching, who never appearsin person, never puffs his own integrity and discernment,and without digressing into comments or setting up for apolitician, is found upon reflexion the best of the kind thatever wrote. To quote passages for the proof of his sublime thoughtor his pathetic address, would be to transcribe the greaterpart of the following history. They will be observed in theorations of these two different casts, and the incidents ofthe work. His figures are thick set; the figures, that regardboth the sentiment and the diction. His metaphors arestrong and uncommon; his hyperboles far but not over­stretched, the tone is still preserved, they flow out from a