OCR Output DISCOURSE II. liii graceful; his final colouring is neither bright nor cheerful.But, though his pieces are not so completely finished as tostand every test, yet they are certainly high-wrought in hisown peculiar style, and for greatness of design and strengthof expression are beyond every other hand. I think no fair comparison can be made of him, exceptwith the historians who are his countrymen, who like him­self are original in their own way, and the first in their man­ner. These are only two, Herodotus and Xenophon. Inpoint of life, Thucydides was junior a little to the former,and senior to the latter. In stateliness, grandeur, and ma­jesty, he far surpasseth them both. The manner of Hero­dotus is graceful and manly; his address is engaging; heloves to tell a story ; and, however fabulous or trifling thatstory, he will be heard with pleasure. The course of hisHistory is clear and smooth, and yields a most cheerful pros­pect: That of Thucydides is deep, rapid, impetuous, andtherefore very apt to be rough and muddy. You may clearlyperceive the bottom of the one : But it is very hard to diveto the bottom of the other. Herodotus, like a master on thehorn, can wind a lofty air, and without any harshness sinkdown into the lowest and mellowest notes. Thucydidessounds the trumpet; his blasts are sonorous and piercing, andthey are all of the martial strain*. Xenophon never pretendsto grandeur; his character is a beautiful simplicity; he issweeter than honey ; he charms every ear; the Muses them­selves could not sing sweeter than he hath wrote. Eachbeats and is beaten by the others in some particular points.Each hath his particular excellence: That of Herodotus isgracefulness ; that of Thucydides, grandeur; that of Xeno­phon, sweetness itself. If generals and admirals and states­men were to award the first rank, it would undoubtedly begiven for Thucydides ; if the calmer and more polite gentry,it would go for Herodotus ; if all in general who can read orhear, Xenophon hath it all to nothing. • Cam quodammodo Mlicum. Cicero in the Orator.