OCR Output aw. 144.] 471 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. an army of his own, he would make waragainst Trypho, and eject him out of Syria.And the people of that country received himwith great alacrity. So he raised forces,with which he fought against Arsaces; buthe lost all his army, and was himself takenprisoner. CHAP. VI. OF THE TREACHEROUS ASSASSINATION OF JONATHAN; THESUCCESSION OF SIMON AS GENERAL AND HIGH-PRIEST OFTHE JEWS ; AND THE COURAGEOUS ACTIONS HE PERFORMEDAGAINST TRVPHO. WHEN Trypho knew what had befallenDemetrius, he was no longer firm toAntiochus; but contrived by subtilty to killhim, and then take possession of his kingdom.But the fear that he was in of Jonathan wasan obstacle to his design; for Jonathan wasa friend to Antiochus. For which cause heresolved first to take Jonathan out of theway; and then to set about his design rela­ting to Antiochus. But he. judging it best totake him off by deceit and treachery, camefrom Antioch to *Bethshan; which by theGreeks is called Scythopolis: at which placeJonathan met him, with forty thousand chosenmen; for he thought that he came to fighthim. But when he perceived that Jonathanwas ready to fight, he attempted to gain himby presents, and kind treatment; and gaveorder to his captains to obey him; and bythese means was desirous to give him assu­rance of his good will, and to take away allsuspicions out of his mind; that so he mightmake him careless, and inconsiderate; andmight take him when he was unguarded. Healso advised him to dismiss his army, becausethere was no occasion for bringing it withhim; when there was no war, but all was in }>eace. However he desired him to retain aew about him, and go with him to Ptolemais;for that he would deliver the city up to him;and would bring all the fortresses that werein the country under his dominion; and hetold him that he came with those very de­signs. * 1 Mace. xii. 39—45. t 1 Mace. xii. 52. J The commendation which the author of the first hookef the Maccabees, chap. xiv. 4, &c. bestows npon Simon,is worth our observation; for he therein tells us, that he Yet did not Jonathan suspect any thing atall by this management; but believed thatTrypho gave him this advice out of kindness,and with a sincere design. Accordingly hedismissed his army, and retained no morethan three thousand of them with him; andleft two thousand in Galilee, and he himselfwith one thousand came with Trypho toPtolemais. But when the people of Ptole­mais had shut their gates, as it had been com­manded them by Trypho to do; he tookJonathan alive, and slew all that were withhim. He also sent soldiers against thosetwo thousand that were left in Galilee, inorder to destroy them. But those men, havingheard the report of what had happened toJonathan, prevented the execution; and be­fore those that were sent by Trypho came,they covered themselves with their armour,and went away out of the country. Nowwhen those that were sent against them sawthat they were ready to fight for their lives,they gave them no disturbance; but returnedback to Trypho. When the people of Jerusalem heard thatJonathan was taken, and that the soldierswho were with him were destroyed; theydeplored his sad fate:f and there was earnestinquiry made about him by every body; anda great fear fell upon them, and made themsad, lest now they were deprived of thecourage and conduct of Jonathan, the nationsabout them should bear them ill will; and asthey were before quiet on account of Jona­than, they should now rise up against them;and by making war with them should forcethem into the utmost dangers. And indeedwhat they suspected really befell them. Forwhen those nations heard of the death ofJonathan, they began to make war with theJews, as now destitute of a governor. AndTrypho himself assembled an army, and hadan intention to go up to Judea, and make waragainst its inhabitants. But when Simon sawthat the people of Jerusalem were terrifiedat the circumstances they were in, he desiredto make a speech to them;J and thereby torender them more resolute in opposing Try-sought the fjood of the nation in every thing, so that hisauthority always pleased them well; that during his ad­ministration, whilst Syria, and other neighbouring king­doms were almost destroyed by wars, the Jews livedquietly, every man under his own vine and fig-tree, en«