OCR Output MANDTJBII. 259 MAXBURIA. tht inside. The Galli failed to force the lined bothon lb* inside and the outside. But the attack onthe camp of Reginus and RebUus was desperate, andLabitnus was sent to support them. Neither ram­parts nor ditches could stop the fierce assault of theenemy. Labieous summoned to his aid the soldiersfrom the nearest posts, and sent to tell Caesar whatbe thought ought to be done. His design was tosally out upon the enemy, as Caesar had orderedaim to do, if he could not drive tLem off from thelines. The place where the decisive struggle took placeis easily seen from the Arx Ale.-dae; and it is accu­rately described by Caesar {B.C. 83, 85). This is thebill (E.) which slopes down to the plain of the Loze.T>ie upper part of the Blope opposite to the ArxAlfcuw is gentle, or ** leniter declivis" (c. 83); buttbe descent from the gentle slope to the plain of theL&e, in which the railway runs, is in some partsv«t steep. Caesar could draw his lines in such awit as to bring them along the gentle slope, andtttoiprir* the steep and lower slope within them.Bit there would still be a small slope downwardsfrom the upper part of the hill to the Roman lines;aikl thi* is this gentle slope downward which he de­scribes in c. 85. as giving a great advantage to theGallic assailants under Vergasillaunus (" Exiguumloci ad dectivitatem fastigium magnum habet mo­ment am *). Tbe mountain behind which Vergasillaunus hidfcimtelf after the night's march is the part of themountain west of Crestigny. The camp of ReginusaoJ hVbilo* being on the south face turned to Alesia,they cmld tee nothing of* Vergasillaunus and histten till they came over the hill top to attack theii'jts. Vercingetorix, from the Arx Alesiae (c. 84),t>Miid see the attack on Regiuus' camp, and all that■m pang on in the plain. He could see every­thing. Caesar's position during the attack of Verga-wiliomn WR* one (idoueus locus) which gave him avi?w of the fight, lie caw the plain, the *' superioresnnnitiunes," or tlie lines on the mountain north-west« Ale>U, the Arx Ah'siae, and the ground beneath.lie *tood therefore on the hill south of Alesia, and utuw western end of it. Caesar, hearing from Labtenus how desperate wastbe attack on the upper lines, sent part of lusOTjJry runnd the exterior lines to attack Verga-■liaanus in the rear. The cavalry went round bytfc» east end of Alesia. They could nut goiwad the wort end, for they would have cros>ed thepo:o miuide of the lines, and the plain was occupiedI* tbe OiUli. Nor could they have got up the hdlcMtiar Aide without some trouble; and they would** bar* come on the rear of the enemy. It is cer­tain that they went by the east end, and upon the■■sfhn round Alesia, which would take a much■•Bw tiine U'au Caesar's rapid narrative would lead■" tofappoM, nT we did not know the ground. "fteo Caesar sent the cavalry round Alesia, he** to tbe aid of Labienus with four cohorts and•*»tta»alry. The men from the higher groundttuUarc him as he came along the lower ground(«*. 87, eft). He came from the hill on the south of**wa,bw»een his lines along the plain, with the Arx***ai«B b'u rieht, from which t: e men in the town■w kanuz d«wn on the furious battle. The"■^ckak of the proconsul told his men and the••aaiwho was coming, lie was received witli a***& nxm both sides, and the nhout was answeredfr*«tae ciiuunvallation and all the lines. The Roman soldier throws his pila aside ; and the swordbegins its work. All at once Caesar's cavalry ap­pears in the rear of Vergasillaunus: ** other cohortsapproach; the enemy turn their backs; the cavalrymeet the fugitives; there is a great slaughter; "andthe victory is won. The Galli who were on theoutside of the fortifications desert their camp, andthe next day Vercingetorix surrenders Ale.nia. Thefight of Alesia was the last great effort .of the unitedGalli against Caesar. They never recovered fromthis defeat ; and from this time the subjugation ofGallia, though not yet quite completed, was nearand certain. Alesia was a town during the Roman occupationof Gallia; but the plateau has long since been de­serted, and there is not a trace of building upon it.Many medals and other antiquities have been foundby grubbing on the plateau. A vigneron of AlUepossesses many of these rare things, which he hasfound; a fine gold medal of Nero, some excellentbronze medals of Trajan and Faustina, and the well-known medal of Nemausus (Shuts), called the " piedde biche." lie has also a steelyard, keys, and avariety of other tilings. The plan of Cassini is tolerably correct; correctenough to make the text of Caesar intelligible.[G.L.] MANDUESSEDUM, a Roman station in Britain{It. Ant. p. 470), the site of which is supposed to beoccupied bv HI ancestor in Warwicksltire. fC. R S.] MANDU'RIA (May8v>«w,Steph. li.: Eth. Mof-bvpivos: Manduria), an ancient city of Calabria, iuthe territory of the Valentines, situated at the dis­tance of 24 miles E. of Tarentum. Its name hasobtained some celebrity from its being the scene ofthe death of Archidamus, king of Sparta, the son ofAge?.il.ius, who had been invited to Italy by theTarentines, to assist them against their neighboursthe Messapians and Lucaniaus; but was defeatedand slain in a battle under the walls of Maud una,which was fought on the same day with the morecelebrated battle of Chaeronca, 3rd Aug., u. c. 338.(Ir'lut. Ages. 3, who writes the name Mavboviov;Theopomp. ap. A then. xii. p. 536; Diod. xvi. 63,88;Pans. iii. 10. § 5.) This is the first notice we findof the name of Manduria: it would appear to havebeen a Mcssapian (or rather perhaps a Suleiitinc)city, and apparently a place of considerable imjjort-anoe; but the only other mention of it that occursin history is in the Second Punic War, when itrevolted to the Carthaginians, but was taken byassault by Fabius Maximus, just before he recoveredTarentum, «. c. 2U9. (Liv. xxvii. 15.) We haveno account of its late on this occasion, but it wouldseem certain that it was severely punished, andeither destroyed or at least reduced to a degradedcondition; for we find no mention of it as a muni­cipal town under the Rjiuaus; and Pliny omits itsname in his list of towns in thi> part of Italy, thoughhe elsewhere (u. 103. s. 10G) incidentally notices itas uoppiduui in Valentino." The name is againfound in the Tabula, which places it at the distanceof 20 M. P. from Tatenlum, an interval less thanthe truth, the actual distance being 20 geog. miles,or at least 24 Roman miles. (Tub. J'trut.) The existing ruins are considerable, especiallythose of the ancient walls, great part of the circuitof which is still preserved: they are built of largerectangular blocks, but composed of the soft andporous stone of which the whole nei^hbourii.gcountry consists; and iu their original stale appearto have formed a double, circuit of walls, with a b2