OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 429 ficing whole hecatombs to the gods, and make use of thosesacrifices for feasting; and yet is not the world thereby ren­dered destitute of cattle, as Apion was afraid would come topass. Yet, if all men had followed the manners of the Egyp­tians, the world had certainly been made desolate as to man­kind, but had been filled full of the wildest sort -of brutebeasts, which, because they suppose them to bo gods, theycarefully nourish. However, if any one should ask Apionwhich of the Egyptians he thinks to be the most wise andmost pious of them all, he would certainly acknowledge thepriests to be so; for the histories say, that two things wereoriginally committed to their care by their king's injunctions,the worship of the gods and the support of wisdom andphilosophy. Accordingly, these priests are all circumeised,and abstain from swine's flesh; nor does any one of the otherEgyptians assist them in slaying those sacrifices they offer tothe gods. Apion was, therefore, quite blinded in his mind,when for the sake of the Egyptians, he contrived to reproachus, and to accuse such others as not only make use of thatconduct of life which he so much abuses, but have also taujrhtother men to be circumeised, as says Herodotus, which makesme think that Apion is hereby justly punished for his castingsuch reproaches on the laws of his own country; for he wascircumeised himself of necessity, on account of an uleer inhis privy member; and when he received no benefit by suchcircumcision, but his member became putrid, he died in greattorment. Now men of good tempers ought to observe theirown laws concerning religion accurately, and to perseveretherein, but not presently to abuse the laws of other nations,while this Apion deserted his own laws, and told lies aboutours. And this was the end of Apion's life, and this shall bethe conclusion of our discourse about him. 15. But now, since Apollonius Molo, and Lysimachus, andsome others write treatises about our lawgiver Moses, andabout our laws, which are neither just nor true, and thispartly out of ignorance, but chiefly out of ill will to us, whilethey calumniate Moses as an impostor and deceiver, and pre­tend that our laws teach us wickedness, but nothing is virtu­