OCR Output 198 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. merely—according to aristocratic phraseology—a poor man,but, what was worse, frugal and a declared enemy of all briberyand corruption. After the manner of soldiers he was notnice, but was fond of his cups, especially in his later years;he knew not the art of giving feasts, and kept a bad cook. Itwas likewise awkward that the consular understood nothingbut Latin and had to decline conversing in Greek; that hefelt the Greek plays wearisome might pass—he was probablynot the only one who did so—but to confess his feeling ofweariness was naive. Thus he remained throughout life acountryman adrift among aristocrats, and annoyed by thekeenly felt sarcasms and still more keenly felt sympathyof his colleagues, which he had not the self-command todespise as he despised themselves.Political Marius stood aloof from parties not much less than from position of society. The measures which he carried in his tribunate of119 tke People (635)—a better control over the delivery of thevoting-tablets with a view to do away with the scandalousfrauds that were therein practised, and the prevention of ex­travagant proposals for largesses to the people (P. 134)—donot bear the stamp of a party, least of all that of the demo­cratic, but merely show that he hated what was unjust andirrational; and how could a man like this, a farmer by birthand a soldier by inclination, have been from the first a revo­lutionist? The hostile attacks of the aristocracy had nodoubt driven him subsequently into the camp of the opponentsof the government; and there he speedily found himselfelevated in the first instance to be general of the opposi­tion, and thereby destined perhaps for still higher things.But this was far more the effect of the stringent force ofcircumstances and of the general need which the oppositionhad for a chief, than his own work; he had at any rate since107-6. his departure for Africa in 647-8 hardly tarried, in passing,for a brief period in the capital. It was not till the latter101. half of 653 that he returned to Rome, victor alike over theTeutones and over the Cimbri, to celebrate his postponedtriumph now with double honours—decidedly the first manin Rome, and yet at the same time a tyro in politics. It wascertain beyond dispute, not only that Marius had savedRome, but that he was the only man who could have saved it:his name was on every one's lips; the nobles acknowledgedhis services; with the people he was more popular than anyone before or after him, popular alike by his virtues and by his