OCR Output O F R O M E. 37, "mould not laft longer than a year and a half." BOOKNext day, he got the law pafied with the univerfal t ^' ^approbation of the people; and then faid, " To Y.R. 3u."convince you by my conduct, Romans, how much B. c. 431."I difapprove of long continuance in office, I here"refign the dictatorfhip." Having thus put anend to one office, and limits to another, he was,upon his refignation, efcorted by the people to hishoufe, with the warmeft expreffions of gratitude andaffedtion. The cenfors, highly offended at his hav­ing impofed a reftriction on a public office of theRoman ftate, degraded Mamercus into a lower tribe*,and, increafing his taxes eight-fold, disfranchifedhim f. We are told, that he bore this treatmentwith great magnanimity, regarding the caufe of thedifgrace rather than the dilgrace itfelf: and that theprincipal patricians, though they had been averfe toa diminution of the privileges of the cenforlhip, were,neverthelefs, highly difpleafed at this inftance ofharfl^ feverity in the cenfors: every one perceiving,that he muft be oftener and for a longer time fubje&to others in the office of cenfor, than he could holdthe office himfelf. The people's indignation cer­tainly rofe to fuch a height, that no other per-fon's influence but that of Mamercus himfelf could • The Hi vi lion of the people into tribes* mada by Romulus, re.garded the ftock, or origin, of the conftituent members; the fublc-quent one, by Serviui, was merely local, and a tribe then fignificdnothing more than a certain fpace of ground with its inhabitants: butas the tribes increafcd in number, which they did at laft to thirty.five,this kind of divilion was kt afide, and a tribe became, not a quarterof the city, but a fraternity of citizens, connected by a participationin the common rights of the tribe, without any reference to their placetof refidence. The ruftic tribes were always reckoned more honour­able than the city tribes, becaufe the bulinefs of agriculture was heldin the higheft ethmation, and becaufe the lowrft of the people were en­rolled in the latter. The difference of rank, among the ruftic tribes,depended, partly, on their antiquity, and, partly, on the number ofilluftrious families contained in each. In many cafes, the tribes tooktheir names from fome of thofe diliinguifhed famllitt. f A.I .u .uiu facere, lignifies to lirip a perfon of all the privileges qf* citizen, on which he became ' civil aerarins/ a citizen fo far only a*he paid uxer. have