OCR Output 148 LAURENTUM. LAURIUM. Oriff. G. Rom.. 10; Varr. L. L. r. 152; Yir^.Aen.vii. 59.) The precise site of Laurcntum Las been a subjectof much doubt; though it maybe placed approxi­mately without question between Ostia and IVatica,the latter being clearly established as the site ofLavinium. It has been generally fixed at Torre diPaternd, and Gcll asserts positively that there is noother position within the required limits "wherecither ruins or the traces of miiis exist, or where theycan be supposed to have existed." The Itinerarycives the distance of Lauren turn from Rome at 16SI. P., which is somewhat less than the truth, if weplace it at Torre di Paternd, the latter being rathermore than 17 M. I*, from Koine by the Via Lauren-tina ; but the same rem.-irk applies to Laviniumalso, which is called in the Itinerary 16 miles fromHome, though it is full 18 miles in real distance.On the other hand, the distance of 6 miles given inthe Table between Lavinium and Laurentum coin­cides well with the interval between Pratica andTorre di Paternd. Nibby, who places Laurentumat Capo Cotto, considerably nearer to Pratica, ad­mits that there are no ruins on the site. Thot« atTorre di Paternd are wholly of Roman and imperialtimes, and may perhaps indicate nothing more thanthe site of a vilU. though the traces of an aqueductleading to it prove that it must have been a place ofsome importance. There can indeed be no doubtthat the spot was a part of the dependencies of Lau­rentum under tho Roman Kmpire; though it maystill he questioned whether it marks the actual siteof the ancient Latin city. (Cell, Top. of Rome, pp.294—298; Nibby, DuUorni di Roma, vol. U. pp.187—205; Ahckcn, Mittrlitalien, p. 62; Bur-mann, Alt Latin, Corographie, pp. 94—97.) It is hardly necessary to notice the attemptswhich have been made to determine the site ofPliny's Laurentino villa, of which he has left us adetailed description, familiar to all scholars (I'lin.Kp. ii. 17). As it appears from his own accountthat it was only one of a series of villas whichadorned this part of the coast, and many of themprobably of equal, if nut greater, pretensions, it isevidently idle to give the name to a mass of brickruins which there is nothing to identify. In theirzeal to do this, antiquarians have overlooked thecircumstance that his villa was evidently close tothe sea, which at once excludes almost all the sitesthat have been suggested for it. The road which led from Rome direct to laurentumretained, down to a late period, the name of ViaLaurkntma. (Ovid, Fast u. 679; Val. Max.viii. 5. § 6.) It was only a branch of the Via Os-tienais, from which it diverged about 3 miles fromthe £utes of Rome, and proceeded nearly in a directline towards Torre di Patmtd. At about 10 milesfrom Rome it crossed a small brook or terrain by abridge, which appears to hare been called the Tonsad Decimum, and subsequently Pons Decimus:hence the name of iJecimo n<»w given to a ca&ale orfarm a mile further on; though this was situated atthe 11th mile frum Rome, as is proved by the dis­covery on the spot of the Roman milestone, as wellas by the measurement on the map. Remains ofthe ancient pavement mark the course of the ViaLaurenLina both before and after passing thisbridge. (Nibby, Dintorni, voL i. p. 539, vuL iii.p. 621.) Roman Authors general)/ agree in stating that theplan? where llie Trojans firit landed and established their camp was still called Troja (Lir. i. 1; Cata,ap. Srrv. ad Aen. i. 5; Fest. r. Trtria, p. 367X andthat it was in the Laurentine territory; hot Virgilis the only writer from whom we learn that it wason the banks of the Tiber, near its mouth {Arm.Tii. 30, ix. 469, 790, &c.). Hence it mast harebeen in the |>art of the "ager Laurens " which wasassigned to Osti.i after the foundation of the colony;and Sen-ins is therefore correct in placing the campof tho Trojans "circa Ostiam." (Serv. ad Arm. to.31.) The name, however, would appear to have beesthe onlv tiling that marked the spot. [E. H B.] LAURETANUS TORTUS, a seaport on thecoast of Ktruria, mentionod only by Livy (xxx. .19).From this passage it appears to have been situatedbetween Cosa and Populonium; but its precise posi­tion is unknown. [E. H- B.] LAURI, a place in North Gallia, on a niad fr mLugdnnum BaUvonim (Z-eiVcn) to Noviotnagas(Xymeguen'), and between Fletio (VUutcn) andNiger Pullos. It is 5 II. I'. from Nicer I'ullos ULauri.and 12 M. 1'. from Lauri to Fletio. No moreis known of the place. [G. L.J LAURIACUM or LAUREACUM, a town in thenorth of Noricum, at the pnint where the river Anh-io*empties itself into the Danube. (Atnm. Marc, mi10; It. Ant. pp. 231, 235, 241, 277; Gruter, /a»cr.p. clxiv. 3; Sot. Imp.: in the Tab. PaU. its name ismisspelt Blaboriciacum.) In a doubtful inscriptionin Outer (p. 484. 3) it is called a Roman coIiojt.with the surname Augusta: Laureacum was thelargest town of Xnricum Ripense, and was connectedby high roads with Sirmium and Taurunum in l'aa-nonia. According to the Antonine Itinerary, it wasthe head-quarters of the third legion, for which theNotitia, perhaps more correctly, mentions the sec *ij.It was, moreover, one of the chief stations of fieDanubian fleet, and tho residence of its pra/frct, madcontained considerable manufactures of anna, aralespecially of shields. As the town is not mentionedby any earlier writers, it was probably built, cr atleast extended, in the reign of M. Aurelius. It wasone of the earliest seats of Christianity in those parts,a bishop of Lauriacum being mentioned as early a*tho middle of the third century. In the fifth ccutorjthe place was still so well fortified that the peop>vof the surrounding country took refuge in it, amiprotected themselves against the attacks of the Ale~tnannians and Thuringians; but in the 6th centuryit was destroyed by the Avari, and although it wasrestored as a frontier fortress, it afterwards fell intodecay. Its name is still preserved in tlae me'emvillage of Larch, and the celebrated convent of thesame name, around which numerous remains of theRoman town may be seen extending as far as Emm,which is about a mile distant. (Camp. Muchar,None. i. p. 362, 268, 163, ii. p. 75.) [L-S.J LAURIUM (Aaoo»M», Uerod. vii. 144; Aavsws-,Thuc. ii. 55: Adj. Aoupiwrucdi; hence aJ 7Aa»«*iAaupian-iitai, Aristoph. At. 1106, silver dins,with the Athenian figure of an owl), a range ofhills in the south of Attica, celebrated for their siltermines. These hills are not high, and are cowrrJf r the mo^t [art with trees and brushwood. Thename is probably derived from the shafts which wn-esunk for obtaining the ore, since Aaifpa in Greek si;-nifies a street or lane, and Ajupsisr would thereforemean a place formed of such lanes,— i. a-, a mine ofshafts,cut as it were into streets, like a eatscui-b.(Wordsworth, Athnu and Attica, p. 109.) Themining district extended a little way north A