OCR Output 22 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV, northern and eastern frontier exposed. In these quarterskingdoms might be formed out of the inland countries situatedbeyond the limits of the Roman hegemony without Bomebeing able very directly or speedily to prevent them, and,in antagonism to the weak states under Roman protection,might develop a power dangerous to Rome and enteringsooner or later into rivalry with her. No doubt the con­dition of the bordering nations—everywhere split into frag­ments and nowhere favourable to political development ona great scale—formed some sort of protection against thisdanger; yet we very clearly perceive in the history of theEast, that at this period the Euphrates was no longerguarded by the phalanx of Seleucus and was not yet watchedby the legions of Augustus. It was high time to put an end to this uncertain stateof things. But the only possible way of ending it was byconverting the client states into Roman provinces. Thiscould be done all the more easily, that the Roman provin­cial constitution in fact only concentrated military powerin the hands of the Roman governor, while administra­tion and jurisdiction in the main were, or at any rate wereintended to be, retained by the communities, so that asmuch of the old political independence as was at all capableof life might he preserved in the form of communal freedom.The necessity for this administrative reform could not wellbe mistaken; the only question was, whether the senatewould put it off and mar it, or whether it would have thecourage and the power clearly to discern and energeticallyto execute what was needful.Carthage Let us first glance at Africa. The order of things esta- and Nu- Wished by the Romans in Libya rested in substance on amidia. balance of power between the Nomad kingdom of Massinissa and the city of Carthage. While the former was expanded,confirmed, and civilized under the vigorous and sagaciousgovernment of Massinissa (ii. 205), Carthage simply inconsequence of a state of peace became once more, at leastin wealth and population, what it had been at the height ofits political power. The Romans saw with ill-concealed andenvious fear the apparently indestructible prosperity oftheir old rival; while hitherto they had refused to grant toit any real protection against the constantly repeated en­croachments of Massinissa, they now began openly to inter­fere in favour of the neighbouring prince. The dispute