OCR Output Iviii A Survey of the History. exact calculation, and astronomy be made the faithful guideof chronology. Book I. The First Book of Thucydides is introductoryto the rest. It is a comprehensive elaborate work of itself.It clears away rubbish, opens a view from the earliest ages,strikes out light from obscurity, and truth from fable, thatthe reader may enter upon the Peloponnesian war with aperfect insight into the state of Greece, and the schemes,interest, and strength of the contending parties. The au<-thor unfolds his design in writing, magnifies his subject,complains of the ignorance and credulity of mankind, rec­tifies their mistakes, removes all prejudice, and furnishes uswith the knowledge of every thing proper to be known, t»enable us to look at the contention with judgment and dis­cernment, when the point contended for is no less than thesovereignty of the sea, which that of the land must necessari-.ly follow. He begins at the source, and traces the original of theGreek communities from certain and indisputable facts; andthe growth of Attica in particular, from the natural barren*ness of the soil, which tempted no invasions ; and from theshelter its inhabitants gave to all, who would settle amongstthem, and share their polity .—He shews the invention ofshipping to have been exceedingly mischievous at first. Itfilled the sea with pirates, to whom it gave a ready convey­ance from coast to coast, enabling them suddenly to seize,and at leisure to carry off and secure their booty. No con­siderable commerce, or rather none at all, could be carriedon, till the shore was cleared of such annoyance. Andwhen few durst venture to settle on the coasts, no martscould be opened for traffic, and no ports were yet secure.A ship was merely the instrument of ready conveyance fromplace to place: It was not yet become an engine of attackand defence on the water. Minos king of Crete made thefirst attempt with success to obtain a naval strength*, by • Years before Christ 1006.