OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 743 he partner and rival of Constantine, resided attax* Airing the six jean of his reign, and affectedb prim the elegance of the ancient metropolis;'alrt a» lost and tyranny, supported by squander-■i iti treasures, created more disgust among the• «nafj than the absence of their former sovereigns,^ti-ntius, however, adorned the city which he pol­led by hit Tien, and some of his works are among» last raon omenta worthy to be recorded. Hethe temple of Venus and Home, which hadby a fire, and erected that magnificent-*i':i»-a. afterwards dedicated in the name of Con-i.vM, whose three enormous arches may still ber»«d with admiration. (Aur. Vict. Caa. c. 40.M) TV final transfer of the seat *f empire toby Constantine gave the last fatal blowgreatness of Home. Yet even thatpresented the city — we can hardly snystaaH it—with a few monuments. One of them,'irt.h which records his triumph over Maxell-•f-fl subsists, and strikingly illustrates the|»th "f degradation to which architectural tastet aJrady rank. Its beauties are derived from[ Varfavais pillage of former monuments. Theits acalprnrea which illustrated the acts andIrraa of Trajan, were ruthlessly and nbsurdly»t liaad to typify those of Constantine; whilstnrinal sculptures that were added, by beingobi ji juxtaposition with those beautiful works,■ siTT* to show more forcibly the hopeless declinetar piaatic arts, which seem to have fallen with bw m tie Time of Cimttontiwr If. — From> jwnod tile care of the Romans was directedb t/.wards the preservation than the adorn-• i lieu-city. Wnen visited by the Second Con-a. x>. 357. an honour which it had notvnd Car two and thirty years, Home could still■at fear aut-imt glories. The lively descriptiontkm visit by Ammianus Marcellinus, thoughBaa id a autliew hat inflated style, forms a sort ofawl to Strsbos picture of Rome in the age ofBanal, and ia striking and valuable, both asra£ ?be condition of tiie eternal city at thatat, sad aa Illustrating the fact that the men of; a^v regarded it* monuments as a kind of Titanica, which it would lie hopeless any longer toi ef oxntatiajg. 44 Having entered Rome," saystavanaa, *• the seat of empire and of every virtue,■antrae wa» overwhelmed with astonishmenti » viewed the forum, that most conspicuousu«aa «f aaoaot power. On whatever side heaa eves, he was struck with the throngingat-i U< add reused the senate in the Curia, the» bmm the tribunal; and was delighted withi: Uujt which accompanied his progress to them. JUL the Circeraian games which he gave,leased with the familiar talk of the people,s-laeot betraying pride, asserted their here-y Lrartj. He himself observed a proper mean,tU oat, as in other cities, arbitrarily terminateama, bat, as is customary at Rome, permittedi ts sad aa chance directed. When he viewedLaVreat parts of the city, situated on the sideshills and in the valleys between them,that whatever he first saw must beto everything else: such as the temple ofarparaa Jove, whose excellence is like divine toB; the baths which occupy whole districts; themra mam of the amphitheatre, built of solid•or rtaae, the height of which almost baffles fhe eye; the Pantheon, which may be called a circularRegion, vanltcd with lofty beauty; the high, butaccessible mounds, bearing the statues of precedingprinces; the temple of Rome, the forum of Peace; thetheatre of Pompey, the odeum, the stadium, andother similar ornaments of the eternal city. Butwhen he came to the forum of Trajan, which wetake to be a structure unparalleled in the wholeworld, be was confounded with astonishment as hesurveyed those gigantic proportions, which canneither be described nor again imitated by man.Wherefore, laying aside all hope of attempting any­thing of the kind, he merely expressed the powerand the wish to imitate the horse of Trajan, onwhich that prince is seated, and which stands in themiddle of the Atrium. Hereupon prince Hormisda,who stood near him, exclaimed with national gesti­culation; 4 First of all, emperor, order such a stableto bo made for it, if you can, that the horse youpropose making may lodge as magnificently as theone we behold.' The same prince being asked hisopinion of Rome said that the only thing whichdispleased him was to perceive that men died thereas well as in other places. So great was the em­peror's surprise at all these sights that he complainedthat rumour, which commonly magnifies everything,had here shown itself weak and malignant, and hadgiven but a feeble description of the wonders ofRome. Then, after much deliberation, he resolvedthat the only way in which he could add to theornaments of the city would be by erecting anobelisk in the Circus Maximus" (xvi. 10). The Bame historian from whom the precedingtopographical picture has been transcribed has alsoleft some lively and interesting notices of the man­ners of the Romans at this period. These havebeen paraphrased in the eloquent language of Gibbon,to whose work the reader is referred for many inte­resting particulars concerning the state of Rome ntthis time (vol. iv. pp. 70—89, ed. Smith). We mayhere observe with surpriso that whilst Alaric, likeanother Hannibal, was threatening her gates, hernobles were revelling in immoderate wealth, andsquandering the revenues of provinces on objects ofprimp and luxury, though, as we have seen, the artshad fallen to so low an ebb that there was no longerany hope of rivalling the works of their ancestors.The poorer citizens, few of whom could any longerboast a pure Roman descent, resembled the inmatesof a poorhouse, except that their pleasures wereprovided for as well as their wants. A liberal dis­tribution of corn and bacon, and sometimes even ofwine, relieved their necessities, whilst health andrecreation were promoted by gratuitous admittanceto the baths and public spectacles. Yet Rome wasnow struggling for her existence. We have alreadymentioned the restoration of the walls by Honorius.It was under the same emperor that the firstexample occurs of that desecration by which theRomans stripped and destroyed their own monu­ments. If we may credit Zosimus (v. 38), Slilicbowas the first to lay violent hands on the templeof the Capitoline Jove, by stripping off the platesof gold which lined its doors, when the follow­ing inscription was found beneath them: "Miseroregi servantur." In after times this example wasbut too frequently followed; and it may be said withtruth that the Romans themselves were the principaldestroyers of their own city. The Barbariam at Rome. — After two sieges,or rather blockades, in 408 and 409, by the Goths 3 B 4