OCR Output 314 [book vni. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. driving twelve yoke of oxen, he came tohim, and cast his own garment upon him.Upon which Elisha began to prophesy; andleaving his oxen, he followed Elijah. Andwhen he desired leave to salute his parents,Elijah gave him leave so to do: and whenhe had bidden them adieu, he followed him,and became the disciple and the servant ofElijah all the days of his life. And thus haveI related the affairs in which this prophetwas concerned. Now* there was one Naboth,f of the cityIzar, who had a field adjoining to that of theking's. The king would have persuadedhim to sell him that field, which lay so nearto his own lands, at what price he pleased:that he might join them together, and makethem one farm; and if he would not acceptof money for it, he gave him leave to chooseany of his other fields in its stead. But Na-both said he would not do so; but wouldkeep the possession of that land of his own,which he had by inheritance from his father.JUpon this the king was grieved, as if he hadreceived an injury, when he could not getanother man's possession; and would neitherwash himself, nor take any food. And whenJezebel asked him, what it was that troubledhim? and why he would neither wash him- self, nor eat? he related to her the perverse-ness of Naboth; and how when he had madeuse of gentle words to him, and such as werebeneath the royal authority, he had beenaffronted, and had not obtained what he de­sired. However, she persuaded him not tobe cast down at this accident; but to leaveoff his grief, and return to the usual care ofhis body: for that she would take care tohave Naboth punished. And she immedi­ately sent letters to the rulers of the Jez-reelites in Ahab's name; and commandedthem to fast,|| and to assemble a congrega­tion, and to set Naboth at the head of them,because he was of an illustrious family; andto have three bold men ready to bear wit­ness that he had blasphemed God and theking;§ and then to stone him, and slay himin that manner. Accordingly when Nabothhad been thus accused, he was stoned by themultitude and slain. When Jezebel heardthat, she went to the king, and desired himto take possession of Naboth's vineyard onfqee cost. So Ahab was glad of what hadbeen done; and rose up immediately fromthe bed whereon he lay, to go to see Na­both's vineyard: but God had great indig­nation at it, and sent Elijah the prophet tothe field of Naboth, to speak to Ahab, and * About an. 899. t The account of Ahab's coveting Naboth's vineyard,as Abarbinel observes, is immediately set after his treat­ment of Benhadad, to shew his extreme great wickednessin sparing him, as Saul did Agag king of the Amalekites,and killing Naboth, that he might get possession of hisvineyard. For this was a high aggravation of his crime,that he basely murdered a just Israelite, and let an im­pious enemy escape. Patrick's Commentary. B. J As it is natural to all men to love and value the an­cient possessions that have been in their family; so thelaw of Moses prohibited the alienation of lands from onetribe or family to another, unless a man was reduced topoverty, in which case he might sell it to the jubilee;but then it was to revert to him again, Lev. xxv. 15, 25,28. Now as Naboth was in no need to sell his vineyard,so he considered with himself, that, if merely to do theking a pleasure, he should part with it out of his hands,especially to be made a garden, and so annexed to thepalace, neither he nor his posterity, should ever be ableto recover it again; so that, in this act, he should bothoffend God, and injure his posterity, which he, being apious and religious man, durst not adventure to do. Pool'sAnnotations. B. || It was always a customary thing, upon the approachof any great calamity, or the apprehension of any na­tional judgment, to proclaim a fast; and Jezebel orderedsuch a fast to be observed in Jezreel, the better to con­ceal her design against Naboth. For, by this means, she intimated to the Jezreelites, that they had some accursedthing among them, which was ready to draw down thevengeance of God upon their city; and that therefore itwas their business to inquire into all those sins whichprovoked God to anger against them, and to purge themout effectually. As therefore these days of fasting wereemployed in punishing offenders, doing justice, and im­ploring God's pardon, they gave the elders of the city anoccasion to convene an assembly, and the false witnessesa fair opportunity to accuse Naboth before them. LeClerc's and Patrick's Commentaries. B. § By the law of Moses it was death to blaspheme God,Lev. xxiv. 16 and by custom it was death to revile theking, Exod. xxii. 28. Now, in order to make safe work,the evidences, as they were instructed, accused Nabothof both these crimes, that the people might be the bettersatisfied to see him stoned. There is this difference,however, to be observed between these two crimes, that,if a man had only blasphemed God, he was to be triedby the great court of Jerusalem, as the Hebrew doctorstell us, and his goods came to his heirs; whereas, whena man was executed for treason against the king, hisestate went to the exchequer, and was forfeited to himagainst whom the offence was committed; and for thisreason it was, that they accused Naboth of this crimelikewise, that his estate might be confiscated; and Abab,by that means, got possession of his vineyard. Patrick'sCommentary. B.