OCR Output 294 BfASSILTA. MASSITHOLTJS. The medals of Massalia are numerous, and Homeof them are in pood ta>te. It ia probable that they;tl ■> i i in< -I for the Galli, for the Galli had coinedmoney of their own long before the Christian aerawith Oraak characters. The common types of theM • — iii .J medals are the lion and the bull. Nogold coins of Massalia hare yet been found ; butthere are coins of other metal covered owr with goldor silver, which are generally supposed to be basecoin; and ba^e or false coin implies true coin ofthe name kind and denomination. It has been alsosupposed that the fraud was practised by the Mas­saliot* themselves, to cheat their customers; a sup-]• -itiiMi which gives them no credit for honesty andlittle for sense, Tlie settlements of Massalia were all made veryearly: indeed some of them may have been settle­ments ot the mother City Phocaea. One of theearliest of these colonics was Tauroeis or Tauroentum(a doubtful position), which Caesar (B. C. ii. 4)calls *' Castellum Massiliensium." The other set­tlements east of Massalia were Olbia (Enubrs orEoubo), Athenopolis [Atiiknopolis], Antipolis(Autibes), Xicaea (.Vista), and the islands alongthis const, the Stoechades, and Lero and Lerina.West of Massalia was Agatha (Agde), on theAnions (iierauk), doubtful whether it was a colonysettled by 1'hocaea or Massalia, Rhoda (Rosas),within the limits of Hispania, was either a Rhodianor Massaliot colony; even if it was Uhodian, it wasafterwanls under Massalia. Kinporiae (Ampurias),in Hispania, was also Massaliot; or even Phocaean(Liv. xxvi. 19) originally. [Kmporiak]. Strabospeaks of three small Massaliot settlements furthersouth on the const of Hispania, between the riverSucro (Jucar) and Carthago Nova (iii. p. 159).The chief of them, he says, was Hemeruscopium.[Dianum], The furthest Phocaean settlement on the southcoast of Spain was Maenace (iii. p. 156), where re­mains of a Greek town existed in Strabo** time. There may have t>een other Massaliot settlementson the Gallic coast, such as Heracles. [Hkkaclka].StepliAims, indeed, mentions some other Massaliotcities, but nothing can be made of his fragmentarymatter. There is no good reason for thinking thatthe Massaliots founded any inland towns. Arelate(Aries) would seem the most likely, but it was nota Greek city; and as to Aveuio (Avignon) and Ca­bell^ CaroiWort), the evidence is ton small to enabletis to re» kon them among Massaliot settlements.There is also the great improbability that the Mas-haliots either wanted to make inland settlements, orwere able to do it, if, contrary to the practice oftheir nation, they had wished it. That Massaliotmerchants visited the interior of Gallia long beforethe Roman conquest of Gallia, may be assumed as afact. Probably the downfal of Carthage at the end ofthe Third Punic War, and the alliance of Massaliawith Rome, increased the commercial prosperity ofthis city: but the Massaliots never became a greatpower like Carthage, or they would not have calledin the Romans to help them against two small Li-gurian tribes. The foundation of the Roman colonyof Narbo (Xarbonne), on the Atax (And*), in aposition which commanded the road into Spain andto the mouth of the Garonne, must have been detri­mental to the commercial interests of Massalia.Strabo (iv. p. 186) mentions Narbo in bis time as thechief trading place in the Provincia, Both before Caesar's time and after Massalia was a place ofresort for the Romans, and sometime* selected byexiles as a residence. (Tac. .4nn. iv. 43, xiiL 47.)When the Roman supremacy was established iaGallia, Massalia had no longer to protect itselfagainst the natives. The people having wealth andleisure, applied themselves to rhetoric and phiV>-sophy; the place became a school far the Gain, was*studied the Greek language, which came into tnchcommon use that contracts were drawn np in Greek.In Strabos time, that is in the time of Augnatu*and Tiberius, some of the Romans who were fond Ulearning went to Massalia instead of Athens. Agri-cola, the conqueror of Britannia, and a natrrc o/Forum Julii, was sent when a boy by a carefulmother to Massalia, where, as Tacitus says (Agrie.c. 4), "Greek civility was united and temperedwith the thrifty habits of a provincial town" (Seealso Tac. Ann\ iv. 44.) The Galli, by their ac­quaintance with Massalia, became fond of rhetoric,which has remained a national taste to the prater*day. They had teachers of rhetoric and philosophyin their houses, and the towns also hired teachersfor their youth, as they did physicians; for a kindof inspector of health was a part of the economy ofa Greek town. Circumstances brought three lan­guages into use at Massalia, the Greek, the Latin,and the Gallic (Isid. xv., on the authority of Varro).The studies of the youth at Massalia in the Romanperiod were both Greek and Latin. Medicine appearsto have been cultivated at Massalia. Crinas, adoctor of this town, combined physic and astratngy.He left an enormous sum of money for repairing thewalls of his native town. He made his fortune atRome; but a rival came from Massalia, namedCharmift, who entered on his career by condemningthe practice of all his predecessors. Channis in­troduced the use of cold baths even in winter, »:plunged the sick into ponds. Men of rank mightbe seen shivering for display under the treatmentof this water doctor. On which Pliny ( xxix. a)well observes that all these men h anted after repu­tation by bringing in some novelty, while theytrafficked away the lives of their patients. The history of Massalia after Caesar's time isvery little known. It is said that there are no im­perial medals of Massalia. Some tombs and iassenp-tions are in the Museum of MarnUU. A great deal has been written about the hntneyof Mas-alia, but it is not worth much. The follow­ing references will lead to other authorities: Kaool-Rochette, Jiistoire des Culimies Grwcrjum, a verypoor work; H. Ternaux, Uistoria Jteifmbltea* Mm*-siiiensium a I\inu>rdiis ad Seronis Tempi* it,which is useful for the references, but far «w«kw»#>else; Thierry, Uistoire des Gaulois. [Q. L.J COIX OF MASAIUA. MASSITH0LTJ8 (MaatrlOo\os\ s rrrer of Libya,the source of which Ptolemy (iv. 6. § 8), places tathe mountain called Theon Ochema, and its * sta-bouchure" (§ 9) in the Hesperian bay, rWw.**iHcspcrium Ccras and the Hypodronitis of Atlfcmota,