OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 317 observance of contracts and the punishment of crimes.The state, which he had inclined towards a democracy,was changed by the lastTarquin into lawless despotism;and when the kingly office was abolished, the patriciansengrossed the benefits of freedom. The royal laws be­came odious or obsolete; the mysterious deposit was si­lently preserved by the priests and nobles; and, at theend of sixty years, the citizens of Rome still complainedthat they were ruled by the arbitrary sentence of the ma­gistrates. Yet the positive institutions of the kings hadblended themselves with the public and private mannersof the city; some fragments of that venerable jurispru­dence11 were compiled by the diligence of antiquarians,'and above twenty texts still speak the rudeness of thePelasgic idiom of the Latins." I shall not repeat the well-known story of the decern- The twelve tables of virs,1 who sullied by their actions the honour of inscrib- the do­ing on brass, or wood, or ivory, the twelve tables ofcemTI"'the Roman laws'.'" They were dictated by the rigid and h The most ancient code or digest was styled Jus Papirianum, from the first com­piler, Papirios, who flourished somewhat before or after the Regifugium. (Pandect.lib. 1. tit. 2.) The best judicial critics, even Bynkersbuek, (tom. 1. p. 284, 285.)and Hcineccius, (Hist. J. C. R. lib. 1. o. 16,17. and Opp. tom. 3. sylloge 4. p. 1—8.)give credit to this tale of Postponins, without sufficiently adverting to the value andrarity of such a monument of the third century, of Ihe, illiterate city. I much suspectthat the Caius Papirius^ Ihe Pontifex Maximus, who revived the laws of Numa,(Dionys. Hal. lib. 3. p. 171.) left only an oral tradition ; and that the Jus Fapirianuo)of Granius Flaccus, (Pandect, lib. 50. tit. 16. leg. 144.) was not a commentary, butan originol work, compiled in the time of Caesar. (Censorin. de Die Natali, lib. 5.p. 13. Duker de Latinitate J. C. p. 157.) * A pompous, though feeble, attempt to restore the original, is made in the His-toire de la Jurisprudence Romaine of Terasson, p. 22—72. Paris, 1750, in folio; awork of more promise than performance. 1 In the year 1444, seven or eight tables of brass were dng up between Cortonaand Gnhio. A part of these, for the rest is Etruscan, represents the primitive stateof the Pelasgic letters and language, which are ascribed by Herodotus to that districtof Italy, (lib. 1. c. 56—58.) though this difficult passage may be explained pf aCrestona in Thrace. (Notes de Larcher, tom. 1. p. 256—261.) The savage dialectof the Euguhine tables has exercised, and may still elude, the divination of criticism;but the root is undoubtedly Latin, of the same age and character as the Saliare Car­men, which, in the time of Horace, none could understand. The Roman idiom, byan infusion of Doric and jEolic Greek, was gradually ripened into the style of thetwelve tables, of the Duillian column, of Ennius, of Terence, and of Cicero. (Grnter,Inscript. tom. 1. p. 142. Soipion Maflfei, Istoria Diplomatics, p. 241—258. Biblio-theque Italique, tom. 3. p. 30—41. 174—205 ; tom. 14. p. 1—52.) 1 Compare Livy (lib. 3. o. 31—59.) with Dionysius Halicarnassensis. (lib. 10.p. 644; 11. p. 691.) How concise and animated is the Roman—how prolix and life­less is the Greek ? Yet he has admirably judged the masters, and defined the rules, ofhistorical composition. P From the historians, Hcineccius (Hilt. J. R. lib. 1. no. 26.) maintains that (hi