OCR Output • * OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i$9 cipline. Their brethren of Rome, embracing the common cause ofmilitary licence, demanded the head of the reformer. Alexander,however, instead of yielding to their seditious clamours, shewed ajust fense of his merit and services, by appointing him his colleague'in the consulship* and defraying from his own treasury the expenceof that vain dignity: but as rt was justly apprehended that if thesoldiers beheld him with the ensigns of his office, they would re­venge the insult in his blood, the nominal first magistrate of thestate retired, by the emperor's advice, from the city, and spent thegreatest part of his consulship at his villas in Campania7!.. The lenity of the emperor confirmed the insolence of the troops; Tumults ofthe legions imitated the example of the guards, and defended their thc leg:on**prerogative of licentiousness with the fame furious obstinacy. Theadministration of Alexander was an unavailing struggle against thecorruption of his age. In Illyricum, in Mauritania, in Armenia, inMesopotamia, in Germany, fresh mutinies perpetually broke out ;,his officers were murdered, his authority was insulted, and his lifeat last sacrificed to the fierce discontents of the army '6. One par­ticular fact well deserves to be recorded, as it illustrates the manners Se^^of the troops, and exhibits a singular instance of their return to afense of duty and obedience. Whilst the emperor lay at Antioch,in his Persian expedition, the punishment of some soldiers, who hadbeen discovered in the baths of women, excited a sedition in the «legion to which they belonged. Alexander ascended his tribunal,,and with a modest firmness represented to the armed multitude, theabsolute necessity as well as his inflexible resolution of correctingthe vices introduced by his impure predecessor, and of maintaining.-the discipline, which could not be relaxed without the ruin of theRoman name and empire. Their clamours interrupted his mild ex­postulation. "Reserve your shouts," said the undaunted emperor,"till you take the field against the Persians, the Germans, and the«■ Sarmatians. Be silent in the presence of your sovereign and be-. ^ M ne factor,.