OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 173 Africa, and the siege of Carthage; and when theypossessed not by any means such a degree of strengthas the Romans had enjoyed to support them underthose calamities. The latter had received, from thecommonalty of Rome, and from Latium, continuallyincreasing supplies of young men in the room of somany legions destroyed: but the citizens of Carthagewere unwarlike, and equally so in the country. Auxi­liaries, indeed, they had procured for pay from amongthe Africans; but they were a faithless race, and veer­ing about with every blast of fortune. Then, as to thekings: Sypfaax, since his conference with Scipio, wasapparently estranged from them: Masinissa had openlyrenounced their alliance, and was become their mostinveterate enemy; so that they had no hope, no sup­port on any side. Neither did Mago raise any com­motions on the side of Gaul, nor join his forces toHannibal's: and Hannibal himself was now decliningboth in reputation and strength.' Their minds, which,in consequence of the late news, had sunk into thesedesponding reflections, were again recalled, by dreadof the impending evils, to consult how they might op­pose the present dangers. They resolved to levysoldiers with all haste, both in the city and the coun­try; to hire auxiliaries from the Africans ; to strengthenthe forts; to collect oorn; to prepare weapons and ar­mor; to fit out ships, and send them to Hippo against theRoman fleet. While they were thus employed, news atlength arrived that it was Laelius, and not Scipio, whohad come over; that his forces were no more than whatwere sufficient to make plundering incursions; and thatthe main force of the enemy was still in Sicily. Thusthey got time to breathe, and began to despatch em­bassies to Syphax and the other princes, to endeavorto strengthen their alliances. They also sent to Philip,with a promise of two hundred talents of silver,i on con­dition that he invaded Sicily or Italy. Others weresent to Italy, to their two generals there, with orders "38,750(,