OCR Output 414 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. emperor "entertained some thoughts of contracting adouble alliance with the rival of his throne. The voiceof an angel (such a fable was propagated) might reveal tothe emperor, that he should always triumph over his do­mestic foes; but Tiberius derived a firmer assurancefrom the innocence and generosity of his own mind.HisTirtaes. With the odious name of Tiberius, he assumed themore popular appellation of Constantine, and imitatedthe purer virtues of the Antonines. After recording thevice or folly of so many Roman princes, it is pleasant torepose, for a moment, on a character conspicuous by thequalities of humanity, justice, temperance, and fortitude;to contemplate a sovereign affable in his palace, pious inthe church, impartial on the seat of judgment, and victo­rious, at least by his generals, in the Persian war. Themost glorious trophy of his victory consisted in a multi­tude of captives whom Tiberius entertained, redeemed,and dismissed to their native homes with the charitablespirit of a Christian hero. The merit or misfortunes ofhis own subjects had a dearer claim to his beneficence,and he measured his bounty not so much by their expec­tations as by his own dignity. This maxim, howeverdangerous in a trustee of the public wealth, was balancedby a principle of humanity and justice, which taught himto abhor, as of the basest alloy, the gold that was extract­ed from the tears of the people. For their relief, asoften as they had suffered by natural or hostile calami­ties, he was impatient to remit the arrears of the past,or the demands of future taxes: he sternly rejected theservile offerings of his ministers, which were compensa­ted by tenfold oppression; and the wise and equitablelaws of Tiberius excited the praise and regret of succeed­ing times. Constantinople believed that the emperorhad discovered a treasure: but his genuine treasure con­sisted in the practice of liberal economy, and the con­tempt of all vain and superfluous expense. The Romansof the east would have been happy, if the best gift of hea­