OCR Output 382 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. disturbance, he mixed his own soldiers in their armour withthe multitude, and ordered them to conceal themselves underthe habits of private men, and not indeed to use their swords,but with their staves to beat thnSe that made the clamour. Hethen gave the signal from his tribunal [to do as he had biddenthem]. Now the Jews were so sadly beaten, that many ofthem perished by the stripes they received, and many of themperished as trodden to death by themselves; by which means themultitude was astonished at the calamity of those that wereslain, and held their peace. 5. In the mean time Agrippa, the son of that Aristobulus,who had been slain by his father Herod, came to Tiberius, toaccuse Herod the tetrarch ; who not admitting of his accusa­tion, he stayed at Rome, and cultivated a friendship with othersof the men of note, but principally with Caius the son of Ger-manicus, who was then but a private person. Now this Agrippa>at a certain time, feasted Caius; and .as he was very complai­sant to him on several other accounts, he at length stretched outhis hands, and openly wished that Tiberius might die, and thathe might quickly see him emperor of the world. This was toldto Tiberius by one of Agrippa's domestics, who thereupon wasvery angry, and ordered Agrippa to be bound, and had hintvery ill treated in the prison for six months, until Tiberius died,after he had reigned twenty-two years six months and three days. 6. But when Caius was made Caeiar, he released Agrippafrom his bonds, and made him king of Philip's tetrachy, whowas now dead; but when Agrippa had arrived at that degree ofdignity, he euflaincd the ambitious desires of Herod the tetrarch,who was chiefly induced to hope for the royal authority by hiswife Herodias, who reproached him for his sloth, and told himthat it WHS only because he would not sail to Caesar, that he wasdestitute of that great dignity; forsince Caesar had made Agrippaa king, from a private person, much more would he advancehim from a tetrarch to that dignity. These arguments pre­vailed with Herod, so that he came to Caius, by whom he waspunishei for his ambition, by being banished into Spain ; forAgrippa followed him, in order to accuse him; to whom alsoCaius gave his tetrarchy, by way of addition. So Herod diedin Spain, whither his wife had followed him, CHAP. X. Caius commands that his statue should le set up in the templeitself; and what Petronius did thereupon. • 1- T^fO^ Caius Caesar did so grossly abuse the fortune hehad arrived at, as to take himself to be a god, and- to desire