OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 483 Christ f' And we may full as well prove from Pilate's in­scription upon the cross, that he hereby declared himself abeliever in Christ, for the real king of the Jews, as we canfrom these words of Josephus, that he hereby declared him­self to be a real believer in him, as the true Messiah. IV. Though Josephus did not design here to declare him­self openly to be a Christian, yet could he not possiblybelieve all that he here asserts concerning Jesus Christ,unless he were so far a Christian as the Jewish Nazarenes orEbionites then were who believed Jesus of Nazareth to be thetrue Messiah, without believing he was more than a man;who also believed the necessity of the observation of theceremonial law of Moses in order to salvation for all mankind,which were the two main articles of those Jewish Christians'faith, though in opposition to all the thirteen apostles ofJesus Christ in the first century, and in opposition to thewhole Catholic church of Christ in the following centuriesalso. Accordingly, I have elsewhere proved, that Josephuswas no other, in his own mind and conscience, than aNazarene or Ebionite Jewish Christian: and have observedthat this entire testimony, and all that Josephus says ofJohn the Baptist, and of James, as well as his absolutesilence about all the rest of the apostles and their companions,exactly agrees to him under that character, and no other.And, indeed, to me it is most astonishing, that all our learnedmen, who have of late considered these testimonies ofJosephus, except the converted Jew Galatinus, should misssuch an obvious and natural observation. We all know thisfrom St. James's2 own words, that so many ten thousands ofJews as believed in Christ, in the first century, were allzealous of the ceremonial law, or were no other than Nazareneor Ebionite Christians; and, by consequence, if there wereany reason to think our Josephus to be, in any sense, abeliever or a Christian, as from all these testimonies therewere very great ones, all those and many other reasons couldnot but conspire to assure us he was no other than a Nazarene ' Matth. xxTH. 17, 22. > Acts xxi. 20