OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 15 their files, shut up, as it were, every opening, and inone compact body fell on the enemy; after whichthere was no other resource left. This was the mostformidable circumstance to the enemy, when, afterhaving pursued them as vanquished, they saw a newline of battle suddenly starting up with an increase ofstrength. The number of legions generally raisedwas four, each consisting of four thousand foot andthree hundred horse. To these an addition of an equalnumber used to be made by levies among the Latinos,with whom the Romans were now to contend as ene­mies, and who practised the same method in drawingup their troops: so that it was well known, that un­less the ranks should be put out of their order, theywould have to engage, not only ensign against ensign,a body of every description against one exactly similar,but even centurion against centurion. There wereamong the veterans two first centurions, one in eacharmy; the Roman deficient in bodily strength, but aman of courage and experience in service : the Latineexceedingly strong, and a first-rate warrior. Thesewere perfectly well known to each other, because theyhad always commanded centuries in equal rank. TheRoman, diffident of his strength, had, before he leftRome, obtained permission from the consuls to appointany one he thought proper his sub-centurion, to de­fend him against the one who was destined to be hisantagonist; and the youth whom he chose being op­posed to the Latine centurion in battle, obtained a vic­tory over him. The armies came to an engagement ata little distance from the foot of Mount Vesuvius,where the road led to the Veseris. 9. The Roman consuls, before they led out theirforces to the field, performed sacrifices. We are toldthat the aruspex showed to Decius that the head ofthe liver was wounde'd on the side which respectedhimself, in other respects the victim was acceptable tothe gods: but Manlius found, jn his immolation,omens highly favorable. Ou which Decius said, ' Allis well yet, since my colleague's offering has been ac­cepted.' With their troops arrayed in the order al­