OCR Output C. VII.] THE TYRANNY OF JOHN. 121 est. These men, therefore, trampled upon all the laws ofmen, and laughed at the laws of God; and for the oracles ofthe prophets, they ridiculed them as the tricks of jugglers;yet did these prophets foretell many things concerning [therewards of] virtue and [punishments of] vice, which whenthese zealots violated, they occasioned the fulfilling of thosevery prophecies belonging to their own country : for there wasa certain ancient oracle of those men, that "the city shouldthen be taken, and the sanctuary burnt, by right of war,when a sedition should invade the Jews, and their own handsshould pollute the temple of God." ' Now while these zealotsdid not [quite] disbelieve these predictions, they made them­selves the instruments of their accomplishment. CHAPTER VII. HOW JOHN TYRANNIZED OVER THE REST; AND WHAT MIS­CHIEFS THE ZEALOTS DID AT MASADA. HOW ALSO VES­PASIAN TOOK GADARA ; AND WHAT ACTIONS WERE PER­FORMED BY PLACIDUS. § 1. By this time John was beginning to tyrannize, andthought it beneath him to accept of barely the same honorsthat others had; and joining to himself by degrees a partyof the wickedest of them all, he broke off from the rest of thefaction. This was brought about by his still disagreeing with 1 This prediction, that " the city [of Jerusalem] should then be taken, andthe sanctuary burnt, by right of war, when a sedition should invade theJews, and their own hands should pollute that temple:" or, as it is, B. vi.cb. ii. sect. 1,—" When any one shall begin to slay his countrymen in thecity,'' is wanting in our present copies of the Old Testament. See Essay onthe Old Test. p. 104-112. But this prediction, as Josephus well remarksheTe, though, with the other predictions of the prophets, it was now laughedat by the seditious, was by their very means soon exactly fulfilled. How­ever, I cannot but here take notice of Giotius's positive assertion upon Matt.xxvi. 9, here quoted by Dr. Hudson, that "it ought to be taken for granted,as a certain truth, that many predictions of the Jewish prophets were pre­served not in writing, but by memory." Whereas, it seems to me, so farfrom certain, that I think it has no evidence or probability at all. IV. —11