OCR Output »90 (book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. deaj of trouble. So when the people wereat a loss, and solicitous, because Saul disap­peared; the prophet besought God to shewwhere the young man was, and to producehim before them. So when they had learnedthe place where Saul was hidden, they sentmen to bring him; and when he was come,they set him in the midst of the multitude.Now was he taller than all of them, and hisstature was very majestic. Then said the prophet, "God gives youthis man to be your king. See how he ishigher than all the people, and worthy of thisdominion."* So as soon as the people hadmade acclamation, " God save the king," theprophet wrote down what would come topass, in a book, and read it in the hearing ofthe king, and laid by the book in the taber­nacle of God; to be a witness to future gene­rations of what he had foretold. So whenSamuel had finished this matter, he dismissedthe multitude; and came himself to the cityRamah, in his own country. Saul also wentto Gibeah, where he was born; and manygood men there were who paid him the re­spect that was due to him; but the greaterpart were ill men, who despised him and de­rided the others; who neither brought himpresents, nor attempted in affection, or evenin words, to please him. CHAP. V. of saul's expedition against the nation of the am­monites, AND HIS SIGNAL VICTORY OVER THEM. AFTER one month, the war which Saulhad with Nahash king of the Ammonites,obtained him respect from all the people.For this Nahash had done a great deal of mischief to the Jew$, that lived beyond Jor­dan; by the expedition he had made againstthem, with a great and warlike army. Healso reduced their cities into slavery, andthat not only by subduing them for the pre­sent, which he did by force and violence; butweakening them by subtilty and cunning, thatthey might not be able afterward to get clearof their slavery, for he put out the rightf eyesof those that either delivered themselves tohim upon terms4 or were taken by him inwar; and this he did that when their left eyeswere covered with their shields, they mightbe wholly useless in war. Now when theking of the Ammonites had served those be­yond Jordan in this manner, he led his armyagainst those that were called Gileadites; andhaving pitched his camp at the metropolis ofhis enemies, which was the city Jabesh, hesent ambassadors to them, commanding themeither to deliver themselves up, on conditionto have their right eyes plucked out; or toundergo a siege, and to have their cities over­thrown. He gave them their choice whetherthey would cut off a small member of theirbody, or universally perish. However, theGileadites were so affrighted at these offers,that they had not courage to say any thing toeither of them; neither that they would de­liver themselves up, nor that they would fighthim. But they desired that he would givethem seven days respite,|| that they mightsend ambassadors to their countrymen, andintreat assistance: and if they came to assistthem they would fight; but if that assistancewere impossible to be obtained, they woulddeliver themselves up to suffer whatever hepleased to inflict on them.§ * 1 Sam. x. 24. t Take here Theodoret's note, cited by Dr. Hudson:"He that exposes his shield to the enemy with his lefthand thereby hides his left eye, and looks at the enemywith his right eye. He, therefore, that plucks out thatright eye, makes men useless in war." J The reason why Nahash was for having their righteye put out, was not only to bring a reproach upon Israel,as himself declares, but to disable them likewise fromserving in war; for, as the manner of fighting in thosedays was chiefly with bow and arrow, sword and shield,the loss of the right eye made them incapable of either;because, in combat, the left eye is covered with the shield,and in shooting with the bow, it is usual to wink with it;so that depriving them of their right eye, made them use­less in war: and yet this barbarous king thought it notproper to put out both their eyes; for then he would havemade them utterly incapable of doing him the service, or acquiring the tribute for him, which he expected fromthem. Calmet's Comment. B. II It may seem a little strange, that this barbarous princeshould be willing to allow the Jabeshites the respite ofseven days; but Josephus assigns this reason for it, viz.that he had so mean an opinion of the people, that he madeno difficulty to comply with their request. Saul indeedhad been appointed king, but having not as yet taken uponhim the government, he lived, just as he did before, in aprivate condition, 1 Sam. xi. 5. So that had he, upon thisnotice, endeavoured to levy an army, he could not think itpossible to be done in so short a space as seven days; andtherefore he thought he might grant them these conditionswithout any danger, and without driving them to despera­tion as he might have done, had he denied them their re­quest. Patricks Comment. B. § 1 Sam. xi. 3.