OCR Output INDUS. INGAUNI. 53 of these mouths, in a direction from W. to E., are: —I. layma <rr6fui (the Pitti or Lohari), not impro­bably in the arm of the stream by which Alexander'snWt pained the Indian Ocean; 2. livhuv <rr6f*a(the Hi kola); 3. Xpuerovv ffrofia (the Uagamari orKuhtrari), whereby merchandise and poods ascendedto Tatta; 4. Xd?i<poy or6pa ((he Mala f); 5. 2a--ia: 6. -a§oAa or 2a&£Acura (the Pinyari orSr); 7. Awwfiapij (probably Lonivdri, the Purana,Darja or A'on"). For the conjectural identificationsof these mouths, most of which are now closed, ex­cept iu high floods, see Lassen's Map of AncientIndia. The principal streams which flowed into theIndus are:—on the right orwestern bank of the river,the Choaspcs, called by Arrian the Guraeus, and byPtolemy the Suastus (the Attok); and the Cophen(Cdbul river), with its own smaller tributary theChow (the A'oir); and, on the left or eastern bank,the greater rivers, — which give its name to the Pan-jdb (or the country of the Five Rivers),— the Acesines{Ckmab), the Hydaspes or Bidaspes (./e/um), theIhdntotes (/far*); and the Hypanis or Hyphasis(the SutUdge). [See these rivers under their re-tpective names.] As in the case of the Ganges, soin that of the Indus, it has been left to modernresearches to determine accurately the real sourcesof the river: it is now well known that the IndusrL«w at a considerable distance on the NE. side ofthe Himalaya, in what was considered by the Hindustheir most sacred land, and which was also the dis­trict in which, on opposite sides of the mountains,the Brahmaputra, the Ganges, and the Jumna, havetheir several sources. From its source, the IndusfiWs SW. to ful-ardu, and thence W. and S\V., tillit bursts through the mountain barriers, and descendsinto the plain of the Panjdb, passing along thewestern edge of Cashmir. (liittcr, Erdkunde, vol. v.p. 216: Moorcroft, Travels in Ixtdakh and Cashmir,1841.) The native name Sindhu has been pre­served with remarkable accuracy, both in the Greekwriters and in modern times. Thus, in the Peri-plo-s we find 2Eir0& (p. 23); in Ptolemy, 1tv€uv(vii. 1. § 2), from which, by the softening of the Ionicpronunciation, the Greeks obtained their form "i^Sos.(Ct Pun. vi. 20; Cosmas, Indie, p. 337.) Thepresent name is Sind or Sindhu. (Ritter, vol. v. pp.W, 171.) [V.] IXDl'S, a river of the 6onth-east of Caria, nearthe town of Cibyra, On its banks was situated, ac­cording to Livy (xxxviiL 14), tho fort of Thabusion.Pliny (v. 29) states that sixty other rivers, and up­wind of a hundred mountain torrents, emptied them­selves into it This river, which is said to havemmed its name from Rome Indian who had beenthrown iuto it from an elephant, is probably no otherthan the river Calbis (K&fcr, Strab. xiv. p. 651;Ptol. v. 2. § 11; Pomp. Mela, i. 16), at presentcalled Qfangi, or Tavas, which has its sources onSIiHint Cadmus, above Cibyra, and passing throughCuts empties itself into the sea near Caunus, oppo­site to the i>land of Rhodes. [L. S.J IXDl'STKIA, a town of Liguria, situated on therizht bank of the Pad us, atwut 20 miles belowTmruu It is mentioned only by Pliny, who tells usthat ks ancient name was Boimncomaous, whichhe connects with Bodincus, the native name of thePados [Pai>c»], and adds that it was at this pointthat river first attained a considerable depth. (Pliniu. 16. s. 20.) Its site (which was erroneously fixedby earlier writers at Casale) lias been establishedbeyond que*tion at a place called Monttit di Po, a few miles below Chivasso, but on the right bank ofthe river, where excavations have brought to lightnumerous coins and objects of ancient art, some ofthem of great beauty, as well as several inscriptions,which leave no doubt that the remains thus dis­covered are those of Industria. They also provethat it enjoyed municipal rank under the Romanempire. (Ricolvi e Rivautella, 11 sito delP anticacitta a"Ittdustria, ($-c.,'l\)ri\\o. 1745,4to.; Millin, Voy.en Piemont, vol. i. pp. 308—311.) [E. H. B.]INESSA. [Aetna.] INFERUM MARE. [Tyukiienum Make.]IXGAEVOXES. [Germania and Hellevio- NES.] INGAUNI ("Iyyawoi), a Ligurian tribe, whoinhabited the sea-coast and adjoining mountains,at the foot of the Maritime Alps, on the W. side ofthe Gulf of Genoa. Their position is clearly iden­tified by that of their capital or chief town, AlbiumIngaunum, still called Albtnga. They appear tohave been in early times one of the most powerfuland warlike of the Ligurian tribes, and bear a pro­minent part in the long-continued wars of the Ro­mans with that ]«opIe. Their name is first men­tioned in b. c. 205, on occasion of the landing ofMago, the brother of Hannibal, in Liguria. Theywere at that time engaged in hostilities with theEpanterii, a neighbouring tribe who appear to havedwelt further inland: the Carthaginian general con­cluded an alliance with them, and supported themagainst the mountaineers of the interior; he subse­quently returned to their capital after his defeat bythe Romans in Cisalpine Gaul, and it was fromthence that he took his final departure for Africa,B.C. 203. (Liv. xxviii. 46, xxx. 19.) After theclose of the Second Punic War, n, c. 201, a treatywas concluded with the Ingauni by the Romanconsul, C, Aelius (Id. xxxi. 2); but sixteen yearslater (in b. c. 185) we find them at war with theRomans, when their territory was invaded by thoconsul Appius Claudius, who defeated them in se­veral battles, and took six of their towns. (Id.xxxix. 32.) But four years afterwards, b. c. 181,they were still in arms, and were attacked for thesecond time by the proconsul Aemilius Paullus.This general was at first involved in great perils,the Ingauni having surprised and besieged him inhis camp; but he ultimately obtained a great anddecisive victory, in which 15,000 of the enemy werekilled and 2500 taken prisoners. This victory pro­cured to Aemilius the honour of a triumph, and wasfollowed by the submission of tho whole people ofthe Ingauni (" Ligurum Ingaunorum omne nomen "),while all the other Ligurians sent to Rome to suefor peace. (Liv. xl. 25—28,34.) From this timewe hear nothing more of the Ingauni in history, pro­bably on account of the loss of the later books ofLivy; for that they did not long remain at peacewith Rome, and that hostilities were repeatedly re­newed before they were finally reduced to submis­sion and settled down into the condition of Romansubjects, is clearly proved by the fact stated byPliny, that their territory was assigned to them, andits boundaries fixed or altered, no less than thirtytimes. (" Liguribus Ingaunis agro tricies dato,'"Plin. iii. 5. s. 6) They appear to have been muchaddicted, in common with other maritime Liguriantribes, to habits of piracy, a tendency which theyretained down to a late period. (Liv. xl. 28, 41;Vopisc. Procul. 12.) We find them still existingand recognised as a separate tribe in the davs of £3