OCR Output 300 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK III. Volsci, scarce a match ior the Hernici alone, came inamis to tlie very gates oi Rome, auit went away againunchastised I Our manners mdeed, and the situaiion ofour aiiiiirs, have long been in such a Irain, that I hadno reason to look for much good; but could I havedivmed, that so great an ignominy had been reservedfor this year, I would by death or banishment, if allother means hail failed, have avoided the office whichI now fill. What! might Rome then have been taken,had those who appeared at our gates in arms, not been.poltroons?—Rome taken, whilst 1 was consul!—Ofhonours, I had enough?—of life, enough,—Alas!—more than enough: I should have died in my thirdconsulship. But who are they, Pray> whom the das­tardly enemy have thus despised? Is it us the consul?,or you Romans? If we are culpable, depose us, asunworthy the office we bear; nay, punish us yet moreseverely. If you are in fault, may neither gods normen punish your faults! Only may you repent. No,Romans ; the enemy's confidence is not owing to thehigh opinion they entertain of their own courage, northe low estimate they make of yours. They have beentoo often vanquished?— driven out of their camp ;—amerced in their lands;—obliged to pass under theyoke, not to know themselves and you. Discord aloneis the ruin of this city. The dii-putes between thesenate and commons, while we set no bounds to ourdomineering, nor you to your liberty; while you areweary of Patrician, and we of Plebeian magistrates,raise the courage of the enemy, and make them pre­sumptuous In the name of the immortal gods, whatis it you would have ? You desired tribunes for I he sakeof peace; we granted them. You were keen to havedecemvirs; we consented to their creation. You grew*weary of decemvirs; we obliged them to resign. Yourhatred pursued them to their private stations; and wesuffered you to put to death, or banish.Patrician* ofthe first rank and distinction in the city. Then youwould have your tribunes again; you obtained them.We saw consuls elected of your own faction, and boreit, though to the prejudice of the Patrictans. \Vehave also seen Patrician magistracies, become a per-