OCR Output 290 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. it is *called by at this day among the Syrians;but the Greeks name it Palmyra. Now Solomon the king was at this timeengaged in building these cities. But if anyinquire why all the kings of Egypt, fromMenes, who built Memphis, and was manyyears earlier than our forefather Abraham,until Solomon, where the interval was morethan one thousand three hundred years, werecalled Pharaohs, and took it from one Pharaohthat lived after the kings of that interval? Ithink it necessary to inform them of it: andthis in order to cure their ignorance, and tomake the occasion of that name manifest.Pharaoh in the Egyptian tongue signifies faking. But I suppose they made use of othernames from their childhood: but when theywere made kings, they changed them into thename which in their own tongue denoted theirauthority. For thus it was also that the kingsof Alexandria, who were called formerly byother names when they took the kingdom,were named Ptolemies, from their first king.The Roman emperors also were from theirnativity called by other names, but are styledCaesars: their empire and their dignity im­posing that name upon them, and not suf­fering them to continue those names whichtheir fathers gave them. I suppose also thatHerodotus of Halicarnassus, when he said there were Jthree hundred and thirty kingsof Egypt after Menes, who built Memphis,did therefore not tell us their names, becausethey were in common called Pharaohs. Forwhen after death there was a queen reigned,he calls her by her name, ||Nicaule: as therebydeclaring, that while the kings were of themale line, and so admitted of the same name,while a woman did not admit the same, hetherefore set down that her name, which shecould not naturally have. As for myself, Ihave discovered from our own books, thatafter Pharaoh the father-in-law of Solomon,no other king of Egypt did any longer usethat name; and that it was after that timewhen the queen of Egypt and Ethiopia cameto Solomon, concerning whom we shall informthe reader presently. But I have now mademention of these things, that I may prove thatour books, and those of the Egyptians, agreetogether in many things. King Solomon subdued to himself the rem­nant of the Canaanites, that had not befo resubmitted to him; those I mean that dweltin mount Lebanon, and as far as the city Ha-math, and ordered them to pay tribute. Healso chose out of them every year such aswere to serve him in the meanest offices,and to do his domestic works, and to followhusbandry. For none of the Hebrews were thing as a well or fountain, but in this spot only, to befound. If we may guess by the ruins, which later tra­vellers give us the description of, this city was certainlyone of the finest and most magnificent in the east; and itis somewhat surprising, that history should give us noaccount, either when or by whom it was reduced to thesad condition wherein it lies at this day. But the truereason for his building this town in so desolate a placewas the commodiousness of its situation, to cut off allcommerce between the Syrians and Mesopotamians, andto prevent their caballing and conspiring together againsthim, as they had done against his father David. Le Clerc'sCommentary. If the reader is desirous to know the pre­sent state of this ruinated city, he may find it related inthe Philosophical Transactions, for October, 1C95, in aletter from Dr. Halifax to Dr. Bernard; or in Well'sGeography of the Old Testament, vol. iii. who has bor­rowed it from thence. B. * It is a well known and very true observation of Am-raianus Marcellinus, near the beginning of his XlVthbook; that the Greek and Roman names of places werenever among the natives of Syria; which is the reasonwhy most places retain their adopted original names" atthis day. This is in effect the note of Mr. Mnundrell,page 53, and is perfectly agreeable to Josephus's observa­tion here. We have an account of the wonderful remainsof this Tadmor or Palmyra, in our Philosophical Transac­tions, No. 318, to which I refer the reader. t This signification of the name of Pharaoh appears tobe true. And Mr. Reland himself says, "Piouro, in theCoptic tongue, is a king; which the Greeks would pro­nounce *afaw." What Josephus adds presently, thatin his copy, no king of Egypt was called Pharaoh afterSolomon's father-in-law, does hardly agree with ourcopies; which have long afterwards the names of Pha­raoh Necho, and Pharaoh Hophrn, 2 Kings xxiii. 29.Jer. xliv. 30. besides the frequent mention of that name inthe Prophets. However, Josephus in his own speech tothe Jews, Of the War, V. 9. speaks of Nechao, who wasalso called Pharaoh; as the name of that king of Egyptwith whom Abraham was concerned; of which nameNechao yet we have elsewhere no mention, till thedays of Josiah, but only of Pharaoh. And indeed itmust be confessed that in this chapter we have moremistakes made by Josephus, and those relating to thekings of Egypt, and to that Queen of Egypt and Ethiopia,whom he supposes to have come to see Solomon, thanalmost any where else in all his Antiquities, and whichare particularly taken notice of by Bochart in his Phaleg.II. 26, of the occasions of which mistakes I c»n give DOaccount. % Of these 330 kings of Egypt, and that they were ingreat measure collateral and not successive, see my Chro­nological Table. II Perhaps Nitocris.