OCR Output 138 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. merely to this much, that, as a general, he gained some cheapvillage triumphs in the Alps and, as a statesman, won by hislaws about voting and luxury some victories nearly as seriousover the revolutionary spirit of the times. His real talentconsisted in his being quite as accessible and bribable as anyother upright senator, with only this difference that he dis­cerned with some cunning the moment when the matter beganto be hazardous; and above all in his acting the part of Fa-bricius before the public by virtue of his noble and dignifiedappearance. In a military point of view, no doubt, we findsome honourable exceptions of able officers belonging to thehighest circles of the aristocracy; but the rule was, that thenoble lords, when they were to assume the command ofarmies, hastily read up from the Greek military manualsand the Roman annals as much as was required for holdinga military conversation, and then, when in the field, actedmost wisely by intrusting the real command to an officer ofhumble lineage and tried discretion. In fact, if a couple ofcenturies before the senate resembled an assembly of kings,these their successors played not ill the part of princes. Butthe incapacity of these restored nobles was fully equalledby their political and moral worthlessness. If the state ofreligion, to which we shall revert, did not present a faith­ful reflection of the wild dissoluteness of this epoch, and ifthe external history of the period did not exhibit the utterbaseness of the Roman nobles as one of its most essentialelements, the horrible crimes, which came to light in rapidsuccession among the highest circles of Rome, would alonesuffice to indicate their character.Administra- The administration, internal and external, was what wastion under ^o De expected under such a government. The social ruintion ra °ra" o^ Italy spread with alarming rapidity; since the aristocracyhad given itself legal permission to buy out the small holders,and in its new arrogance allowed itself with growing fre­quency to drive them out, the farms disappeared like rain-Social state drops in the sea. That the economic oligarchy at least keptof Italy. pace with the political, is shown by the expression em-100. ployed about 650 by Lucius Marcius Philippus, a man ofmoderate democratic views, that there were among thewhole burgesses hardly 2000 wealthy families. A practicalcommentary on this state of things was once more furnishedby the servile insurrections, which during the first yearsof the Cimbrian war broke out annually in Italy, e. g. at