OCR Output 84 SURRENDER OF 0, ISCIIALA. [B. IV. taken up by the robbers, who were also the guard at thegates, in order to prevent any of the rest from going out inorder to propose terms of submission, and from receiving anyof the horsemen into the city. But John returned Titus thisanswer, that " for himself he was content to hearken to hisproposals, and that he would either persuade or force thosethat refused them. Yet he said that Titus ought to havesuch regard to the Jewish law, as to grant them leave tocelebrate that day, which was the seventh day of the week,on which it was unlawful not only to remove their arms, buteven to treat of peace also; and that even the Romans werenot ignorant how the period of the seventh day was amongthem a cessation from all labors; and that he who shouldcompel them to transgress the law about that day would beequally guilty with those that were compelled to transgressit: and that this delay could be of no disadvantage to him:for why should any body think of doing any thing in thenight, unless it was to fly away ? which he might prevent byplacing his camp round about them : and that they shouldthink it a great point gained, if they might not be obligedto transgress the laws of their country; and that it wouldbe a right thing for him, who designed to grant them peacewithout their expectation of such a favor, to preserve the lawsof those they saved inviolable." Thus did this man put atrick upon Titus, not so much out of regard to the seventhday as to his own preservation; for he was afraid lest heshould be quite deserted, if the city should be taken, and hadhis hopes of life in that night, and in his flight therein. Nowthis was the work of God, who, therefore, preserved this John,that he might bring on the destruction of Jerusalem ; as also,it was his work that Titus was prevailed with by this pretencefor a delay, and that ho pitched his camp farther off the cityat Cydessa. This Cydessa was a strong Mediterranean villageof the Tyrians, which always hated and made war against theJews; it had also a great number of inhabitants, and waswell fortified, which made it a proper place for such as wereenemies to the Jewish nation. 4. Now, in the night-time, when John saw that there was