OCR Output 74 THE RETORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. the nullity and want of freedom of the legally supreme organof the Roman community; indeed that nullity was only themore palpably evinced to all whom it did or did not concern.Equally ostentatious and equally empty was the formal recog­nition accorded to the independence and sovereignty of theburgesses by the transference of their place of assembly fromthe old Comitium below the senate-house to the Forum145. (about 609).The public But this hostility between the formal sovereignty of theelections- people and the practically subsisting constitution was ingreat part a semblance. Party phrases were in free circula­tion; of the parties themselves there was little trace inmatters really and directly practical. Throughout the wholeseventh century the annual public elections to the civilmagistracies, especially to the consulship and. censorship,formed the real standing question of the day and the focusof political agitation; but it was only in isolated and rareinstances that the different candidates represented oppositepolitical principles; ordinarily the question related purelyto persons, and it was for the course of affairs a matter ofindifference whether the majority of the votes fell to a Ca;ci-lian or to a Cornelian. The Romans thus lacked that whichoutweighs and compensates all the evils of party-life—thefree and common movement of the masses towards what theydiscern as a befitting aim—and yet endured all those evilssolely for the benefit of the paltry game of the ruling coteries.It was comparatively easy for the Roman noble to enter on thecareer of office as quaestor or tribune of the people; but theconsulship and the censorship were attainable by him onlythrough great exertions prolonged for years. The prizeswere many, but those really wortli having were few; thecompetitors ran, as a Roman poet once said, as it wereover a race-course wide at the starting-point but graduallynarrowing its dimensions. This was right so long as themagistracy was—what it was called—an " honour," and menof military, political, or juristic ability were rival competitorsfor the rare chaplets; but now the practical exclusiveness ofthe nobility did away with the benefit of competition, andleft only its disadvantages. With few exceptions the youngmen belonging to the ruling families crowded into thepolitical career, and their impetuous and premature ambitionsoon caught at means more effective than useful action forthe public good. The first requisite for a public career came