OCR Output RHIZONICTJS STNU& RI10DANUS. t retires am the Enchelees. (Scylax, /. c.)rtkrr the Phoenicians had reached the E. shoreLV Adriatic don not appear, but it could onlj ben traces of Phoenician settlements that this termi wiped to his wanderings. (Wilkinson, Dal-as, lal L p. 381; Neigebaur, Die Sud-Slaven,H) [E. B. J.] lillZOXICUS SINUS. [Rmzo.x.]ihWPHAGI AETUIOPES ('PifoaXryoi, Dio-.u U; Strab. xvii. p. 770, seq.; Ptol. it. 8. §i at of the numerous tribes of Aetbiopia, whom«d after the diet peculiar to them.Arthiopians dwelt above Merov, on■r bask of the Astaboras (Tactizzt), and de-. tleir principal sustenance from a kind of cake • Bade from the reeds and bulrushes thatr? that alluvial region. The roots were firstiKiauIr cleansed, then powdered between stones,■a palp thus obtained was dried in the sun. Thea^Aari are described as a mild and harmless race,C p amity with their neighbours, and, probablyBar :brr bad nothing to lose, unmolested by them. • (Air foes were lions, who sometimes com-la! tin greatest havoc among this unarmed race;Ceir best friends, according to Diodorus (com p.Ouih. ap. Hudton, Geog. Grate. Min. p. 37),1a ABebss of gnat, or more probably gadfly,a t: tbs summer solstice (wro ri;e avaroAV»■■■>) assailed the lions in such numbers, thatI ad -.-.an the marshal, and permitted the Rhi-iari to recruit their losses. The site of thisaw tribe probably corresponds with that of the ■ (Bruce. TrwetU. vol. iii. pp. 69—72), who•ropy the southern part of the territory of ■ t Minn, on the upper Tacazze. [W. B. D.]BZUS (P<»w), a port-town of Pontus, at thel> 'the river Khizrus, about 120 stadia to the i lie river Caina, and 30 stadia west of theu if the Ascurus. In the time of ProcopiusI (rota. iv. 2) the place had risen to consider-mfnrta&ce, ao that Justinian surrounded it_,jrig fortificatiuns. The Table mentions on'> place under the name of Beila. which is pro-'ady a corruption of the right name, whichio the form of Rizeh, though the place'iillad Irritk. (Couip. Procop. de Aed.< hel v. 1 § 6.) [L. S.] • rv'.o J'.'. PifoiiiTioi), a town of"** in TWaaaly, whose inhabitant were'>n& u Uernetrias upon the foundation of thei dry. (Smb. ix. pp. 436, 443; Steph. B. «. ».;"■ 9. s. 16.) We learn from Scylax (p. 24)aaaia was outside the Pagasaean gulf upon>Vntr shore; but its exact position is uncer- tnkt places it at the ruins eastward ofan (.Vortfcns Greece, toI. iv. p. 383).ta?CA('P<Vuc«)tatownof Crete,wberetherewas CIS Artemis Khoccaea ( Aelian. .V. A. xii. 22).(vol. ii. p. 247) found remains at the TillageI Kill bears the name of Rkokka, to the S. ofK*u alethymna; and there can be little doubtsit this ia the kite of Rhocca, which, as is shown■asa (,V. a xiT. SO), was near Methymnai. Anlo, voL i. p. 391; Pasbley, Crete, vol. ii.! [E. B. J.J i'.'l>A or RHODUS CPiSn, Steph. B. : e.; • JWa. ii. 6; Lit. xxxiv. 8; Tocos, Strab. xiv.4: Eeatalh. ad Dion. Per. 504; called bya a. § 20, V liwo* u . where we should pro."ad Fv3w toAii), a Greek emporium on the■' tlx Indigttae in Uispania TarraconensU, fonnded according to Strabo (/. c.) by the Rhodinns,and subsequently taken possession of by the Mas-sitiots. It is the modem Rotas; but tradition saysthat the old town lay towards the headland at SanPedro de Roda. (Ford, Handbook of Spain, p.249; comp. Meuro. Rhod. i. 28; Marca, Jliip. ii.18; Martin, Hut. dee Gaulee, p. 218; Florez, Med.iU. p. 114; Mionnet, i. p. 148.) [T. H. D.] RHOTMNUS ('PooWs: Rhone). The Rhonerises in Switzerland, in a glacier west of the pass ofSt. Gothard and south of the Goilenstock, a moun­tain above 12,000 feet high. It has a generalcourse, first SW., then W. by S. as far as Martigny,the Octodurus of Caesar (B. G. iii. 1). The coursefrom Martigny to the Lake of Genera forms nearlya right angle with the course of tbo river aboveMartigny. The length of the valley through whichthe Rhone flows to the Lake of Geneva is above 90miles. This long valley called Wallis, or the I'aZ-lait, is bounded by the highest Alpine ranges: onthe north by the Bernese Alps, which contain thelargest continuous mass of snow and ice in theSwiss mountains, and on the south by the Le-pontian and Pennine Alps. The Lake of Geneva,the Lac us Lemannus of the Romans [Lemasus],which receives the Rhone at its eastern extremity,is more than 1200 feet above the surface of theMediterranean. The Lake of Geneva lies in the form of a crescentbetween Switzerland and Savoy. The convex part ofthe crescent which forms the north side is above 50miles in length; the concave or southern side is lessthan 50 miles in length. The widest part, whichis about the middle, is 8 or 9 miles. The great­est depth, which is near some high cliffs on thesouth coast, is stated variously by different author­ities, some making it as much as 1000 feet. TheRhone enters the lake at the east cud a muddystream, and the water flows out clear at the westernextremity past Geneva, an ancient city of the Al-lobroges. [Geneva.] Below Geneva the Rhone runs in a rapid courseand in a SW. direction past Fort lEclute. FortI Erliw is at the point described by Caesar (/(. G.i. 9) where the Jura overhangs the course of theRhone. [Helvktii.] The river then runs southpast Seyseel, and making a bend turns north again,and flowing in an irregular western course to Lyon(Lugdunum) is joined there by the Savne, theancient Arar [Arab; Luodi'num]. The lengthof the course of the Rhone from the Lahe of Ge­neva to Lyon is about 130 miles. The Saune, asCaesar says, is a slow river, but the current is seenvery plainly under the bridges in Lyon. The Rhone isa rapid stream, and violent when it is swelled bythe rains and the waters from the Alpine regions. From Lyon the Rhone flows in a general south­ern course. The direct distance is about 150 milesfrom Lyon to Arlet (Arclate) where the river dividesinto two large branches which include the isle ofCarmague. The whole course of the Rhone from theice-fields of Switzerland to the low shores of theMediterranean is above 500 miles. The valley of the Rhone below Lyon is narrowon the west bank as far as the junction of the Ar-deche, and it is bounded by high, bare, and rockyheights. Some of the hill slo| es are planted withvines. All the rivers which flow into the Rhonefrom the highlands on the west are small: theyI are the Ardicke, Che, Gordon (Vardo), and someI smaller streams. The left bank of the Rhone from z z 4