OCR Output B. I. r - INTRODUCTION. without exertions of skill, and very much resembling a battleupon land. When they had laid one another close, theywere not easily separated again, because of the number andhurry of the vessels. The greatest hope of victory was placedin the heavy-armed fighting on the decks, who, fixed to theirpost, engaged hand to hand, whilst their ships continuedwithout any motion. They had no opportunity to make theircharges and tacks, but fought it out by dint of strength andcourage without any dexterity. The tumult was great on allsides, and the whole action full of disorder: In which theAthenian ships relieved the Corcyrean wherever they werepressed too hard, and did what they could to intimidate theenemy ; but their commanders refrained from any direct at­tack, remembering with awe the orders of the Athenians.The right wing of the Corinthians suffered the most: Forthe Corcyreans, with twenty ships, having put them to flight,chased them, when dispersed, to the continent j and continu­ing the pursuit to their very camp, land immediately, wherethey set fire to their abandoned tents, and carried off all thebaggage: In this part, therefore, the Corinthians and their al­lies were vanquished, and the Corcyreans plainly superior.But in the left, where the Corinthians personally engaged,they easily prevailed, as twenty ships of the Corcyreans, andthose too from a number at first inferior, were gone off in thepursuit. But the Athenians, seeing the Coreyreans thus dis­tressed, now came up to their support more openly than be­fore, having hitherto refrained from any direct attack. Andwhen the chace was clearly begun, and the Corinthians fol­lowed their suqeess, then every one amongst them appliedhimself to action. There was no longer any time for discre­tion : Corinthians and Athenians were forced by absolutenecessity to engage one another. The chace being thus begun, the Corinthians towed notafter them the hulks of the vessels they had sunk, but turnedall their attention to the men who were footing about, andcruize at large more to slaughter than take alive. And, Voi. I. T