OCR Output CHAP. L. in three divisions, marched into the city: eight andtwenty of the inhabitants were slain by the sword of Ca-led: eleven men and six women were proscribed by thesentence of Mahomet; but he blamed the cruelty of hislieutenant; and several of the most obnoxious victimswere indebted for their lives to his clemency or contempt.The chiefs of the Koreish were prostrate at his feet.What mercy can you expect from the man whom you havewronged?—We confide in the generosity of our kinsman.—And you shall not confide in vain; begone! you aresafe, you are free. The people of Mecca deserved theirpardon by the profession of Islam; and after an exile ofseven years, the fugitive missionary was enthroned asthe prince and prophet of his native country.b But thethree hundred and sixty idols of the Caaba were igno-miniously broken; the house of God was purified andadorned; as an example to future times, the apostleagain fulfilled the duties of a pilgrim: and a perpetuallaw was enacted, that no unbeliever should dare to sethis foot on the territory of the holy city.0Conquest The conquest of Mecca determined the faithA. J.tisst' ^d obedience of the Arabian tribes ;d who, ac-—632. cording to the vicissitudes of fortune, had obeyedor disregarded the eloquence or the arms of the prophet.Indifference for rites and opinions still marks the cha­racter of the Bedoweens; and they might accept, asloosely as they hold, the doctrine of the Koran. Yet anobstinate remnant still adhered to the religion and libertyof their ancestors; and the war of Honain derived a pro­per appellation from the idols, whom Mahomet had '• The Mahometan doctors still dispute, whether Mecca was reduced by force orconsent (Abulfeda, p. 107. et Gagnier ad locum); and this verbal controversy is ofas much moment as our own about William the Conqueror. * In excluding the Christians from the peninsula of Arabia, the province ofHejaz, or the navigation of the Red sea, Chardin (Voyages en Perses, torn. 4.p. 166.) and lleland (Dissert. Miscell. torn. 3. p. SI.) are more rigid than theMussulmans themselves. Tin- Christians are received without scruple into theports of Mocha, and even of Gedda, and it is only the city and precincts of Meccathat are inaccessible to the profane. (Niebuhr, Description de 1'Arabie, p. 308,309. Voyage en Arabie, torn. 1. p. 205. 248, &c.) i• Abulfeda, p. 112—115. Gagnier, torn. 3. p. 67—88. D'Herbelot, MoHAMHF.D. VOL. VI. Y