OCR Output G54 POMPEII PBAESIDIUM. POMPTI a sepulchre bearing that name was discovered nearits entrance; a very slight argument, where almostthe whole street is bordered with tombs. In fact,the approach to the gate of Hereulaueum is boundedon both sides by rows of tombs or sepulchral mo­numents, extending with only occasional interruptionsfor above 400 yards. Many of them are on a veryconsiderable scale, both of size and architecturalcharacter; and though they cannot vie with theenormous mansolea whi< h bonier in a similar mannerthe line of the Via Appia near Itome. they derive addi­tional interest from the perfect state of preservation inwhich they remain: and the Street of the Tombs,as it is commonly called, is perhaps one of the mostinteresting scenes at Pompeii The monuments arefor the most part those of persons who had heldmagistracies, or other offices, in the city of Pompeii,and in many cases the site was assigned them bypublic authority. U is therefore probable that thisplace of sepulture, immediately outside the gateand on one of the principal approaches to the city,was regarded as peculiarly honourable. Besides the tombs and the two villas already no­ticed, there have been found the remains of shopsanil small houses outside the gate of Herculaneum,and there would appear to have been on this side ofthe city a considerable suburb. This is supposed tolie the one designated in the sepulchral inscriptionof M. Arrius Dion led es as the "Pagiis AugustusFelix Suburban us." We have as yet no evidenceof the existence of any suburbs outside the othergates. It is evident that any estimate of the po­pulation of Pompeii must be very vague and uncer­tain ; but still from our accurate knowledge of thespace it occupied, as well as the diameter of thehouses, we may arive at something like an approx­imation, and it seems certain that the population ofthe town itself could not have exceeded about20,000 persona. This is in accordance with thestatements of ancient writers, none of whom wouldlead us to regard Pompeii as having lieon more thana second or third rate provincial town. The inscriptions found at l'omjieii, which are oftenincorrectly given in the ordinary works on the sub­ject, are carefully edited by Mornm>en. in his In.scri/ttionrs AV'/hj Xeapolifani ( pp. 1 12—122).These do not, however, include a clans of much in­terest, and peculiar to Pompeii, the inscriptions of atemporary kind which were rudely painted on thewalls, or scratched on the plaster of the houses andpublic buildings. It is remarkable that several ofthese are in the Oscan dialect, and seem to provethai the use of that ancient language must havecontinued down to a much later period than is com­monly supposed. [OsciJ. But the public orofficial use of the Oscan seems to have ceased afterthe Social War, and the numerous inscriptions of apublic character which belong to the age of Au­gustus and his successors arc uniformly in the Latinlanguage. [E. II. B.] POMPETI PRAESrniUM (Tab. Pent; Pom­peii, J tin. Ant. p. 134; Ipompei, /tin. Ilieros. p. 566),a place in Moesia Superior, between Horrcum Margiand Naistua, identified either with Ktiscknia (liei-chard) or Btmh>etin (Lapie). POMPEIO'POLIS (IIo^btjiouVoAis). a town ofPaphlagonia, on the southern bank of the river Am-nias, a tributary of the Hairs (Strab. xii. p. 562;Stepb. B. x. v.). Its name seems to indicate that itwas founded by Potnpey the Great. In the Itine­raries it is marked as 27 miles from Siuopc; accord­ ing to which its site nof the Amnias, about tCaptain Kinneir (p. *mains. In the vicinimine of the mineral/. c.) Pompeiopolis is (as an episcopal see of PiUierocl. p. 695; CorJustinian, Xonll. xxis The name Pompeiojseveral towns, such asEupatorla in Cappedin Tarraconensian Spai PO'MPELO (Hon*iii. p. 161, who makesirTjuJiroAis), the chief pania Tarraconensia, oBurdigala (/tin. Ant.pendiaria in the jur(1'lin. iii. 3. s. 4.) N< POMPON IA XA.poniana is the same asStoechades or Xslss o? Ilie close to the, Frenchville, following the MaiPoinponiana betweenCaccabaria [Hkraclhis the peninsula of Giwestern point of Prote |em of the Stocchades.of Giens which is on tlby a lagune, from wh»sea on both sides, so thsidered as an island. POMPONIA'NIS ] PONIANI9.] POMPTTNAE PA)Paludi Pontine) was tltract of marshy gronndfoot of the Volscian mneighbourhood of CisUThey occupy a space ol7Of S in breadth: andthe W. by a broad traciforest, which is also ptwith marshy spots, andwater, so that it is iregular marsh, and thprised under the name*extremely low level ofscarcely any natural cdescend into it from Igether with the accumishore from Actum Ureadily accounts for themarshes; and there caiof this low alluvial ticompared with the restStill there is the stnconsiderations to rejecentertained by the Korthat the whole of thplace within the periodidea seems indeed to hafrom the assumption Ithe island of Circe metherefore in the time ofthe midst of the operBut it is far more straion the authority of Timitation had taken pi