OCR Output 338 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. noise or motion, the Etrurians having no mind to cometo blotos, unless they were compelled; and the dictatorlooking back to the capitol, tor the signal from the au­gurs, which they were to set up, as had been concerted,the moment they had obtained a favourable omen.Whenever it appeared, setting up a great shout, he sentthe horse to begin the attack. They were followed bythe foot, and fought wiih great fury. The Etrurianswere obliged to give way every where, to the superiormettle of the Romans. The horse kept their groundbetter; and the king himself, the life and soul of thewhole, riding from place to place, whilst the Romanspursued him everywhere, kept the victory in suspense. CHAP. XIX. Gallantry of Cossus;—Defeat of the Confederates. J. HERE was at that time an officer of the Romancavalry, named A. Cornelius Cossus, very remarkablefor the gracefulness of his person, extraordinary strength,and exalted courage, who, constantly#?attentive to thehonour of his family, which was very illustrious, bothsupported and augmented its glory. Observing thatTolumnius carried terror and confusion among the Ro­man troops, wherever he moved, and distinguishing himby his royal robes, as he flew along the line of battle,cried out, ' Is that the man who infringes human trea-'ties, and tramples on the law of nations; if the gods• will permit any sanctity to remain among mortals, I'shall soon see, whether I can sacrifice him as a victim.'to the manes of our ambassadors.' Then springingforward with great impetuosity against the king, as hispeculiar adversary, with one blow of his lance, unhorsedhim, dismounting himself, the same instant, supportedby his spear. Whilst the king attempted to rise, hebeat him down upon his back with the boss of his buck­ler, and having given him several wounds, thrust himthrough the body, and nailed him to the ground. Hethen stript him of his spoils, cut off his head, and fixedit on the point of his spear, evidencing by that bloodytrophy, his victory to the enemy, and spreading terroramong them everywhere.