OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 191 will briefly run over this war again, with what befel us thereinto this very day, which is the thirteenth year of the reign ofCaesar Domitian, and the fifty-sixth year of my own life. I havealso an intention to write three books concerning our Jewishopinions about God and his essence, and about our laws; why, ac­cording to them, some things are permitted us to do, and othersare prohibited. THE where, whether he performed what he now intended or not. Some of the rea­sons of this design of his might possibly be, his observation of the many errorshe had been guilty of in the two first of those seven books of the War, whichwere written when he was comparatively young, and less acquainted with theJewish antiquities than he now was, and in which abridgement we might havehoped to find those many passages which himself, as well as those several passa­ges which others refer to, as written by him, but which are not extant in hispresent works. However, since many of his own references to what he hadwritten elsewhere, as well as most of his own errors, belong to such early timesas could not well come into this abridgement of the Jewish war i and since noneof those that quote things not now extant in his works, including himself as weltas others, ever cite any such abridgement, 1 am forced rather to suppose that henever did publish any such work at all; I mean, as distinct from his own life,written by himself, for an appendix to these Antiquities, and this at least sevenyears after these Antiquities were finished. Nor indeed does it appear to methat Josephus ever published that other work here mentioned, as intended by himfor the public also. I mean the three or four books concerning Cod and his «-settee, and concerning the Jewish laws; why, according to them, some things•were permitted the 'Jews, and others prohibited; which last seems to be the samework which Josephus had also promised, :/ God pirmitttd, at the conclusion ofhis preface to these Antiquities; nor do 1 suppose that Tie ever published any ofthem. The death of all his friends at court, Vespasian, Titus, and Domitian,and the coining of those he had no acquaintance with to the crown, I meanfc'erva and Trajan, together with his removal from Rome to Judea, with whatfollowed it, might easily interrupt such his intentions, and prevent his publica­tion of those works.