OCR Output ROMAN EMPIRE. the commander of the faithful. His lieutenant, from amotive of fear or pity, apprised Abu Taher of his danger,and recommended a speedy escape. Your master (saidthe intrepid Carraathian to the messenger) is at the headof thirty thousand soldiers; three such men as these areivanting in his host: at the same instant, turning to threeof his companions, he commanded the first to plunge adagger into his breast, the second to leap into the Tigris,and the third to cast himself headlong down a precipice.They obeyed without a murmur. Relate (continuedthe imam) what you have seen: before the evening yourgeneral shall be chained among my dogs. Before theevening, the camp was surprised and the menace wasexecuted. The rapine of the Carmathians was sancti足fied by their aversion to the worship of Mecca: theyrobbed a caravan of pilgrims, and twenty thousand de足vout Moslems were abandoned on the burning sands toTheypii- a death of hunger and thirst. Another yearMecca, they suffered the pilgrims to proceed without in-A.D.929. terruptjon; but, in the festival of devotion, AbuTaher stormed the holy city, and trampled on the mostvenerable relics of the Mahometan faith. Thirty thou足sand citizens and strangers were put to the sword; thesacred precincts were polluted by the burial of threethousand dead bodies: the well of Zemzem overflowedwith blood; the golden spout was forced from its place;the veil of the Caaba was divided among these impioussectaries; and the black stone, the first monument ofthe nation, was borne away in triumph to their capital.After this deed of sacrilege and cruelty, they continuedto infest the confines of Irak, Syria, and Egypt; but thevital principle of enthusiasm had withered at the rootTheir scruples or their avarice again opened the pilgri足mage of Mecca, and restored the black stone of theCaaba; and it is needless to inquire into what factionsthey were broken, or by whose swords they were finallyextirpated. The sect of the Carmathians may be con-