OCR Output a o 1> SAMKIL'M. SAMM0N1UM. vol. ii. p. 415), and Rom at the village of Phfflia,on the southern side of Mt. Tricaranon, acrosswhich is tlie shortest pass from the I'hliasia intothe Arrive plain. (jPeJbjxmnet, p. 27.) SAMMO'NIUM. [Samohium.] SA'MNIUM (tj 2oWiy, Pol., Strab.: Etk. Sam-his, pi. Samnites, Zawlrat, Pol., Strab., &.c.;2:iju-vito.1, l'tol.), one of the principal regions or districtsof Central Italy. The name was sometimes used ina more extensive, sometimes in a more restricted,sense, the Sainnites being a numerous and powerfulpeople, who consisted of several distinct tribes,while they had founded other tribes in their imme­diate neighbourhood, who were sometimes includedunder the same appellation, though they did notproperly form a part of the nation, llut SamniutnprojKT, according to the more usual sense of thename (exclusive of the Krentaiii. hut including theHirpitii), was a wholly inland district, bounded onthe N. by the Marsi, Peligni, and Frentani, on theK. by Apulia, on the S. by Lucania, and on the SW.and \V. by Campania and Latiara, I. General Description. The territory thus limited was almost whollymountainous, being tilled Dp with the great moun­tain masses and ramifications of the Apennines,which in this part of their course have lost evenmore than elsewhere the character of a regular chainor range, and consist of an irregular and brokenmass, the configuration of which it is not very easyto understand. But as the whole topography ofSamnium depends upon the formation and arrange­ment of these mountain groups, it will be necessaryto examine them somewhat in detail. 1. In the northern part of the district, adjoiningthe Marsi and Peligni, was a broken and irregularmass of moon tains, containing the sources of theSagrus (&tngro), and extending on both sides ofthe valley of that river, as far as the frontiers ofthe Frentaui. This was the land of the Cakackni.the most northerly of the Samnite tribes, whose chiefcity was Aufidena, in the valley of the Sagrus, aboutA miles above Castel rli Sangro, now the chief townof the surrounding district. 2. The valley of the Sagrus was separated by amountain pass of considerable elevation from the val­ley of the Vulturous, a river winch is commonly con­sidered as belonging to Campania; but its sources, aswell as the upper part of its course, and the valleys ofall its earliest tributaries, were comprised in Sam­nium. Aescrn'u, situated on one of these tributaries,was the principal town in this part of the coun­try; while Venafrum, about 15 miles lower downthe valley, was already reckoned to belong to Cam­pania. This portion of Samnium was one of therichest and most fertile, and least mountainous ofthe whole country. From its proximity to Latiumand Campania, the valley of the Vulturnus was oneof the quarters which was most accessible to thelioinan arms, and served as one of the highroadsinto the enemy's country. 3. From Aesernia a pass, which was probablyused from very early times, and was traversed bya road in the days of the Roman Empire, led toBorianora in the valley of the Tifernus. Thiscity was situated in the very heart of the Sam­nite country, surrounded on all sides by loftymountains. Of these the most important is thaton the SW., the Monte Matese, at the presentday one of the most celebrated of the Apennines, but for which no ancient name hasThe name of Mons Tifernus may indeed fcart Usesapplied to the whole group; but it is mar? pnjfat&athat it was confined, as that of Monte fli/ffwi)ttthe present day, to one of the ofttborta or mmtsummits of the Matese, in which the aciuai svnaof the Tifernus were 6'ituated. The name afafateis given to an extensive group or mass f-f maaatamrilling up the whole space between Bt/jam (B«i-anum) and the valley of the Yulturnui, so that asends down its ramifications and underfills qaksthe valley of that river, whence they sweep naiby the valley of the Calor, and thence by Jfava*and Sep'mo to the sources of the Tamanu. 1fthighest summit, the MonU J/t/rtto, SW. rfj'inoy rises to a height of 6744 feet. TUangsdgronp of mountains, clothed with extensive ime\and retaining the snow on its summits for s Inpart of the year, must always have been iacessible to civilisation, and offered a camjaittkrier to the arms of an invader. There could ■have been any road or frequented pass betweea 1which followed the valley of the Vulturous ind Xwhich skirts the eastern base of tbe Maietctrmvalley of the Calort to that of the Tarusro. Tto;is the line followed by the modern road from .VenaCampobasso. 4. N. of Btjano the mountains are leavated, and have apparently no consptcsoas (<least no celebrated) summits; but the wboJefrom Bojano to the frontier of the Frentani.up with a mass of rugged mountain*, extendingAynon-e and the valley of the Sanffrv to totbourhood of Campobasso. This irtooataaMiis traversed by the deep and narrow valleysTrupto (Trinius) and Bifemo (Tifrroo*carry off the waters of the central chain,affording any convenient means of cooumThe mountain tracts extending on all tides «fanum constituted the country of tbe l'lsnmost powerful of all the Samnite tribes. 5. S. of the Mattse, and h* pa rated fromthe valley of the Calor (CoJorr), is the•>f the Mons Tabi r.ni s, still called Htm*bti7~no, somewhat resembling the MaUae iaracter, but of inferior elevation as well mIt formed, together with tbe adjoiningthe land of the Caudixi, apparentlysmallest of the Samnite tribes, and thepass of the Caudine Forks was situated iClosely connected with Mount Taburnoa,a manner dependent on it, though separatedby the narrow valley of the Isclerv, iswhich extends from Arpaja to near Gis of very inferior elevation, bnt risessteeply from the plain of Campania, of whichto form the natural boundary. Thethis ridge nearest to Capua is the Moxs Ticelebrated in the campaigns of Hannibal,'he so long looked down upon the plains 6. At the eastern foot of )Ions Ti"situated Beneventum, the chief town of tbeand which, from its peculiar position, was iner the key of the whole district inhabitedpeople. It stood in a plain or broadby the junction of the Calor with itsSabatus and Tamanis, so that considerableopened up from it in all directions into tbtThe Calor itself is not only the n*»tthe tributaries of the Vulturous, bnt at thaits junction with that river, about 20