OCR Output 140 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR. ed from Athens Procne, the daughter of Pandion, nor did theyboth belong to the same part of Thrace. Tereus lived inDaulia, a city of that province which is now called Phocis,and which in his time was inhabited by Thracians. Here itwas that the women executed the tragical business of Itys ;and many poets who make mention of the nightingale, do it bythe name of the Daulian bird. And it is more probable thatPandion matched his daughter to a person at this lesser dis­tance from him, from the view of mutual advantage, than toone seated at Odrysa?, which is many days journey furtheroff. But Teres, whose name is not the same with Tereus, wasthe first king of Odrysae, and compassed the regal power byviolence. This man's son Sitalces, the Athenians admittedinto their alliance, hoping he might gain over to their sidethe cities of Thrace and Perdiccas. Nymphodorus arrivingat Athens finished the alliance with Sitalces, and made his sonSadocus an Athenian. He also undertook to bring the warhow in Thrace to an end, and to persuade Sitalces to send tothe Athenians a body of Thracian horsemen and targeteers.He also reconciled Perdiccas to the Athenians by procuringfor him the restitution of Therme : Immediately after which,Perdiccas joined the Athenians and Phormio in the expedi­tion against the Chalcideans. Thus was Sitalces the son ofTeres, a Thracian king, and Perdiccas, the son of Alexander,a Macedonian king*, brought into the Athenian league. The Athenians in the fleet of one hundred sail, still con­tinuing their cruize on the coast of Peloponnesus, took So­lium a fort belonging to the Corinthians, and delivered theplace with the district of land belonging to it to the Paliren- • Macedonia at.this time was not reckoned a part of Greece, and bothking and people were regarded as Barbarians. Alexander, father of thisPerdiccas, was obliged to plead an Argive pedigree, in order to assist atthe Olympic games And Perdiccas now himself, whose successor Alex­ander the Great, not many years af4er, was leader of Greece and conqueror,of Asia, was at this time balancing between the Lucedxmonians and Athe­nians, important to either merely as a neighbour to their colonies in Thrice.The Greek generals will be sometimes seen in this history to use themonarch of Macedonia very cavalierty.