OCR Output AN. 21.] 567 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS and commanded that they should do everything with his approbation. And, in short,he arrived at that pitch of felicity, thatwhereas there were but two men that govern­ed the vast Roman empire, first Caesar, andAgrippa, who was his principal favourite:Caesar preferred no one to Herod, besidesAgrippa: and Agrippa made no one hisgreater friend than Herod, besides Caesar.And when he had acquired such freedom, hebegged of Caesar a tetrarchy *for his brotherPheroras; while he did himself bestow uponhim a revenue of a hundred talents, out ofhis own kingdom: that in case he came toany harm himself, his brother might be insafety; and that his sons might not haveany dominion over him. So when he hadconducted Caesar to the sea, and was re­turned home, he built a most beautiful templeof the whitest stone, in Zenodorus's country,near the place called Penium. This is avery fine cave in a mountain, under whichthere is a great cavity in the earth; and thecavern is abrupt, and prodigiously deep, andfull of still water. Over it hangs a vast moun­tain; and under the caverns arise the springsof the river Jordan. Herod adorned thisplace, which was already a very remarkableone, still farther, by the erection of this tem­ple, which he dedicated to Caesar. At this time Herod released to his subjectsthe third part of their taxes: under pretenceindeed of relieving them, after the dearth theyhad had; but the main reason was, to recovertheir good will, which he now wanted. Forthey were uneasy because of the innovationshe had introduced in their practices; of thedissolution of their religion; and of the disuseof their own customs. And the people everywhere talked against him, like those that werestill more and more provoked and disturbedat his procedure. Against these discontentshowever, he greatly guarded himself, andtook away the opportunities they might haveto disturb him; and enjoined them to be alwaysat work. Nor did he permit the citizens either to assemble, or to walk, or eat together; butwatched every thing they did; and when anywere caught, they were severely punished.And many there were who were brought tothe citadel Hyrcania, both openly and secret­ly; and were there put to death. And therewere spies set every where, both in the city,and in the roads, who watched those that mettogether. Nay, it is reported, that he did nothimself neglect this part of caution; but thathe would oftentimes assume the habit of aprivate man, and mix among the multitude,in the night time: and make trial what opinionthey had of his government. And as for thosethat could no way be reduced to acquiesceunder his scheme of government he prose­cuted them all manner of way. But for therest of the multitude, he required that theyshould be obliged to take an oath of fidelityto him; and at the same time compelled themto swear that they would bear him good will,and continue certain so to do in his manage­ment of the government. And indeed a greatpart of them, either to please him, or out offear of punishments, yielded to what he re­quired. But for such as were of a more openand generous disposition, and had indignationat the force he used to them, he by one meansor other made away with them. He endea­voured also to persuade Pollio, the Pharisee,and Sameans and the greatest part of theirscholars to take the oath. But these wouldneither submit so to do; nor were they pu­nished together with the rest, out of the rever­ence he bore to Pollio. The Essenes also,as we call a sect of ours, were excused fromthis imposition. These men live the samekind of life as do those whom the Greeks callPythagoreans: concerning whom I shall dis­course more fully felsewhere. However, itis proper to set down here the reasons where­fore Herod had these Essenes in such honor,and thought higher of them than their mortalnature required. Nor will this account be un­suitable to the nature of this history; as it willshew the opinion men had of these Essenes. * A tetrarchy properly and originally denoted thefourth part of an entire kingdom, or country: and a te-trarch, one that was ruler of such a fourth part: which al­ways implies somewhat less extent of dominion and powerthan belong to a kingdom, and to a king. But this firstexactness has not always been adhered to in the use ofthese words, and Pliny reckons no fewer than six about Decapolis, as Noldius takes notice, De Herod,page 368. But that Zenodorus was once tetrarch or go­vernor of Trachonitis, we learn from Dio; as Spanheimobserves here. This tetrarchy of Pheroras was in Perea,beyond Jordan,t See Of the Wars.Book ii. chap. 8.