OCR Output THE LITE OF FLAVIUI JOSEPHU3. 223 ceived what snares they had laid for me. No<v, as soon as I wasgot off my journey, I took up my lodgings over against them,and pretended to be asleep ; so Jonathan and his party thinkingthat I was really asleep, and at rest, made haste to go down intothe plain, to persuade the people that I was an ill governor. Butthe matter proved otherwise ; for upon their appearance therewas a cry made by the Galileans immediately, declaring theirgood opinion of me as their governor ; and they made a clamouragainst Jonathan and his partners, for coming to them when theyhad suffered no harm, and as though they would overturn theirhappy settlement; and desired them by all means to go back a-gain, for that they would never be persuaded to have any otherto rule over them but myself. When I heard of this, I did riotfear to go down into the midst of them ; I went, therefore, my­self down presently to hear what Jonathan and his companionssaid. As soon as I appeared, there was immediately an accla­mation made to me by the whole multitude, and a cry in mycommendation by them, who confessed their thanks was owingto me for my good government of them.. 49. When Jonathan and his companions heard this, they werein fear of their own lives, and in danger lest they should be as­saulted by the Galileans on my account ; so they contrived howthey might run away. But as they were not able to get off, forI desired them to stay, they looked down with concern at mywords to them. I ordered, therefore, the multitude to restrain en­tirely their acclamations, and placed the most faithful of my arm­ed men upon the avenues, to be a guard to us, lest John shouldunexpectedly fall upon us ; and I encouraged the Galileans totake their weapons, lest they should be disturbed at their ene­mies, if any sudden insult should be made upon them. Andthen, in the first place, I put Jonathan and his partners in mindof their [former] letter, and after what manner they had writtento me, and declared they were sent by the common consent ofthe people of Jerusalem, to make up the differences I had withJohn, and how they had desired me to come to them ; and as Ispake thus, I publicly shewed that letter they had written,till they could not at all deny what they had done, the letter itselfconvicting them. I then said, " O Jonathan ! and you that are" sent with him as his colleagues, if I were to be judged as to" my behaviour, compared with that of John's, and had brought" no more than two * or three witnesses, good men and true, it " is * We here learn the practice of the Jews, in the days of Josenhus, to inquireinto the characters of witneses, before they were admitted, and that their num­ber ought to be three, or two at the least, also exactly as in the law of Moses, andin the Apostolical Constitutions, B. II. ch. 37. See Horeb Covenant Revived,paje 9-j. 98.