OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 85 convention ; let them return into their camp. What­ever they were in possession of the day before the con­ference, let them possess again. Then let war andresolute counsels be adopted. Then let the conven­tion and peace be rejected. Let us carry on the warin the same circumstances and situations in which wewere before peace was mentioned. Let neither theRoman people blame the convention of the consuls,nor us the faith of the Roman people. Will you neverwant an excuse for violating the compacts which youmake on being defeated ? You gave hostages to Por-sena: you clandestinely got them back. You ran­somed your state from the Gauls for gold : while theywere receiving the gold they were put to the sword.You concluded a peace with us, on condition of ourrestoring your captured legions: that peace you nowannul; in fine, you always spread over your fraudu­lent conduct some show of right. Do the Roman peo­ple disapprove of their legions being saved by an igno­minious peace? Let them take back their peace, andreturn the captured legions to the conqueror. Thiswould be conduct consistent with faith, with treaties,and with the laws of the heralds. But that you should,in consequence of the convention, obtain what you de­sired, the safety of so many of your countrymen, whileI obtain not what I stipulated for on sending you backthose men, a peace; is this the law which you, AulusCornelius, which you, heralds, prescribe to nations?But for my part, I neither accept those men whom youpretend to surrender, nor consider them as surren­dered ; nor do I hinder them from returning into theirown country, which stands bound under an actual con­vention, carrying with them the wrath of all the gods,whose authority is thus despised. Wage war, sinceSpurius Postumius has just now struck with his kneethe herald, in character of ambassador. The gods areto believe that Postumius is a citizen of Samnium, notof Rome ; and that a Roman ambassador has been vio­lated by a Samnite ; and that therefore you have justgrounds for a war against us. That men of years and