OCR Output an. 1064.] 257 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. three days, that he might deliver to him hisentire army; and might send him to fightagainst Sheba, the son of Bichri. Now whileAmasa was gone out, and made some delayin gathering the army together, and so wasnot yet returned; on the third day the kingsaid to Joab,* "It is not fit we should makeany delay in this affair of Sheba, lest he geta numerous army about him, and be theoccasion of greater mischief, and hurt ouraffairs more than did Absalom himself. Donot thou, therefore, wait any longer, buttake such forces as thou hast at hand, andthat old fbody of six hundred men, andthy brother Abishai with thee; and pursueafter our enemy, and endeavour to fighthim wheresoever thou canst overtake him.Make haste to prevent him; lest he seizeupon some fenced cities, and cause us greatlabour and pains before we take him." So Joab resolved to make no delay; buttaking with him his brother, and those sixhundred men, and giving orders that the restof the army which was at Jerusalem shouldfollow him, he marched with great speedagainst Sheba. And when he was come toGibeon, which is a village forty furlongs dis­tant from Jerusalem; Amasa brought a greatarmy with him, and met Joab. Now Joabwas girded with a sword, and had his breast­plate on; and when Amasa came near him tosalute him, he took particular care that hissword should fall out, as it were of its ownaccord. So he took it up from the ground,and while he approached Amasa, who wasthen near him, as though he would kiss him,he took hold of Amasa's beard}: with his otherhand, smote him in his belly when he did notforesee it, and slew him.|| This impious and altogether profane action Joab§ did to a goodyoung man, and his kinsman, and one that haddone him no injury; and this out of jealousythat he would obtain the chief command ofthe army, and be equal in dignity with him­self about the king. And for the same causeit was that he killed Abner. But as to thatformer wicked action, the death of his brotherAsahel, which he seemed to revenge, affordedhim a decent pretence, and made that crimea pardonable one; but in this murder ofAmasa there was no such covering for it.Now when Joab had killed this general, hepursued after Sheba, having left the deadbody in the care of a person who was orderedto proclaim aloud to the army, that Amasawas justly slain, and deservedly punished.—"But," said he, "if you be for the king, fol­low Joab, his general; and Abishai, Joab'sbrother." But because the body lay in theroad, and all the multitude came runningto it; and, as is usual with the multitude,stood wondering a great while at it; he thatguarded it removed it thence, and carried itto a certain place that was very remote fromthe road, and there laid it, and covered itwith his garment. When this was done allthe people followed Joab. Now as he pur­sued Sheba through all the country of Israel,one told him, that he was in a strong citycalled Abel-bethmaachah. Hereupon Joabwent thither, and set about it with his army,and cast up a bank round it, arid ordered thesoldiers to undermine the walls and to over­throw them. And since the people of thecity did not admit him, he was greatly dis­pleased at them. Now there was a woman of small account,**and yet both wise and intelligent, who seeing * Abishai, 2 Sam. xx. 6. But I prefer Josephus'scopy. t Cherethites and Pelethites. Heb. and Septuagint,2 Sam. xx. 7. J It was an ancient custom among the Grecians, totake the person, to whom they had any address to make,by the dim, or beard: Antiquis Graeciae in supplicandomentem attingere moverat, says Pliny, lib. II, c. 45; andeven to this day, the Turks, in their salutations, do veryfrequently take one another by the beard, (vide Theve-not's Travels, c. 22.) The Arabians have a great regardto the beard. The wives kiss their husbands, and thechildren their father's beards, when they come to salutethem: and, when two friends meet together, their customis, in the course of their compliments., to interchangekisses in this manner, (vide Darvieus Coutumes des Arabes, c. 7,) as the like custom is still preserved amongthe eastern people, the Indians, who take one another bythe chin, when they would give a hearty salute, and sayBobba, i. e. Father; or Bii, Brother, as the author of theVoyage to the East-Indies relates. Vide Peter de Falles'sTravels. B. II 2 Sam. xx. 10. § So insolent was Joab become, upon the presumptionthat David durst not punish him, that as he venturedupon the bloody fact, so he imagined, that though thesieht of Amasa's dead body might stop the march of thosethat came by it, yet upon its being given out that he wasagain become their general, their love for him was such,that they would not scruple to follow him. Patrick'sCommentary. B. ** It seems not unlikely, that this woman was a go­