OCR Output 474 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he persuaded them to have it so demolished;and this by putting them in mind what mise­ries they had suffered by its garrison, and theJewish deserters; and what miseries theymight hereafter suffer in case any foreignershould obtain the kingdom, and put a gar­rison into that citadel. This speech inducedthe multitude to a compliance; because heexhorted them to nothing but what was fortheir own good. So they all applied them­selves to the work, and levelled the moun­tain; and in that work, spent both day andnight, without any intermission; which costthem three* whole years before it was re­moved, and brought to a level with the plainof the rest of the city. After which the templewas the highest of all the buildings; now thecitadel, as well as the mountain whereon itstood, were demolished. And these actionswere thus performed under Simon. CHAP. VII. of simon's alliance with antiochus pius; and hiswars against trypho, and against cendebeus, thegeneral of antiochus's army. also of his assassi­nation by his son-in-law, ptolemy. NOWf after Demetrius had been carriedinto captivity, Trypho his governor,Jdestroyed Antiochus, the son of Alexander,who was also called j|the God; and this when he had reigned four years. Though he causedit to be reported that he died under thehands of the surgeons. He then sent hisfriends, and those that were most intimatewith him to the soldiers; and promised thathe would give them a great deal of money ifthey would make him king. He intimatedto them that Demetrius was taken captive bythe Parthians; and that Demetrius's brotherAntiochus, if he came to be king, would dothem a great deal of mischief, in way of re­venge for their revolting from his brother.So the soldiers, in expectation of the wealththey should get by bestowing the kingdom onTrypho, made him their ruler. However,when Trypho had gained the management ofaffairs he demonstrated his disposition to bewicked. For while he was a private personhe cultivated a familiarity with the multitude,and pretended to great moderation; and sodrew them on artfully to whatsoever hepleased. But when he had once taken thekingdom, he laid aside any farther dissimu­lation, and appeared in his true colours.This behaviour made his enemies superiorto him; for the soldiery hated him, and re­volted from him to Cleopatra, the wife ofDemetrius; who was then shut up in Se-leucia, with her children. But as Antiochus,the son of Demetrius, who was called Soter,was not admitted by any of the cities on ac- * An. 142, 141, 140, B. C. t It must here be diligently noted that Josephus's copyof the first book of Maccabees, which he had so carefullyfollowed, and faithfully abridged as fir as the 50th verseof the 13th chapter; seems there to have ended. Whatfew things there are afterward common to both, mightprobably be learned by him from some other more im­perfect records. However, we must exactly observehere, what the remaining part of that book of the Macca­bees informs us of; and what Josephus would never haveomitted, had this copy contained so much; that this Simonthe Great, the Maccabee, made a league with AntiochusSoter, the son of Demetrius Soter, and brother to the otherDemetrius, who was now a captive in Parthia; that uponhis coming to the crown, about the 140th year before theChristian era, he granted great privileges to the Jewish'nation, and to Simon their high-priest and ethnarch, whichprivileges Simon seems to have taken of his own accordabout three years before. In particular he gave himleave to coin money for his country, with his own stamp;and as concerning Jerusalem, and the sanctuary, that theyshould be free; or as the vulgar Latin hath it, holy andfree, 1 Mace. xv. 6, 7. which I take to be the truer read­ing; as being the very words of his father's concessionoffered to Jonathan several years before, x. 31. Antiq.XIII. 2. Now what makes this date, and these grants, greatly remarkable, is the state of the remaining genuineshekels of the Jews with Samaritan characters; whichseem to have been (most of them at least,) coined in thefour first years of this Simon the Asmonean; and havingupon them these words on one side, "Jerusalem theholy;" and on the reverse, " In the year of freedom 1 or2 or 3 4." Which shekels therefore are original monu­ments of these times, and undeniable marks of the trothof the history in these chapters; though it be in a greatmeasure omitted by Josephus. See Essay on the OldTestament, p. 157, 158. The reason why I rather sup­pose that his copy of the Maccabees wanted these chap­ters; than that his own copies are here imperfect, is this,that all their contents are not here omitted; though muchthe greatest part be. See a pattern of these genuine she­kels, with the inscriptions in Samaritan letters, at the bot­tom of my Description of the Temples. I How Trypho killed this Antiochus, the Epitome ofLivy informs us, chap. 55. viz. that he corrupted his phy­sicians, or surgeons; who falsely pretending to the peoplethat he was perishing with the stone, as they cut him forit, killed him; which exactly agrees with Josephus. || That this Antiochus, the son of Alexander Balas, wascalled the God, is evident from his coins: which Spanheimassures us bear this inscription, "King Antiochus, theGod, Epiphanes, the victorious."