OCR Output 150 LAUS POMPEIA. LAZI. about 10 miles from the sea, is the town of I.aino.supposed by Cluverinsto represent the ancientLata;but the latter would apjieur, from Strata's descrip­tion, to liavc been nearer the sea. Romaneili wouldplace it at Scalta, a small town with a pood port,about three miles N. of the mouth of the river; butit is more probable that the ancient city is to belooked for between this and the river Lan. (Clover.Ital p. 1262; Romaneili, vol. i. p. 383.) Accord­ing to Strabo there was, near the river and city, atemple or Heroum of a hero named Dracon, close towhich was the actual scene of the great battle be­tween the Greeks and Lucanians. (Strab. L c) Strata speaks of a gulf of Laiis, by which he canhardly mean any other than the extensive bay nowcalled the C'rff of Polirnstro, which may be con­sidered as extending from the promontory of Pynos{Capo degli fnfrttchi) to near Cirelta. Thereexist coins of Laiis, of ancient style, with the in­scription AAINON: they were struck after the de­struction of Sybaris, which was probably the mostflourishing time in the history of Laiis. [E. H. B.] coin ok laOs. LAUS POMPEIA, sometimes also called simplyLa is (Ktn. Laudcnsis : Lodi Vecehio), a city ofGallia Transpadana, situated 16 miles to the SE.of Milan, on the highroad from that city to l'la-centia. {Itin. Ant. pp. 98, 127.) According to1'liny it was an ancient Gaulish city founded by theBoians soon after they crossed the Aljis. (Plin.iii. 17. s. 21.) It afterwards became a lioinanmunicipal town, and probably assumed the epithetof Pompeia in compliment to Pomjieiiis Strabo, whoconferred the rights of Latin citizens upon the mu­nicipalities of Transpadana Gaul; but we find nospecial mention of the fact. Nor does any his­torical notice of Laus occur under the Roman Em­pire: though it seems to have been at that period aconsiderable town, and is termed in the Itineraries"Laude civitas," and by P. Diaconus "Laudensiscivitas." (Itin. Ant. p. 98; Itm. Hirr. p. 617;P. Diac. v. 2.) In the middle ages Lodi becamean iin|*irtant city, and an independent republic; butwas taken and destroyed ill A. D. 1112 by the Mi­lanese, and in 1158 the emperor Frederic Barta-rossa baring undertaken to restore it, transferredthe new city to the site of the modem Lodi, on theright bank of the Atlda. The ancient rite is stilloccupied by a large village called Lodi Ytochio,about 5 miles due W. «f the modern city. Itu correctly placed by the Itineraries 16 M. P.from Mediolanum, and 24 from 1'lacentia. (/fin.Ant. p. 98.) [E. II. B.] LAL'SC/NIUS LACUS, in the courtry of theHelvetii. The Antonine Itin. has a road from Me­diolanum {Milan) through Geneva to Argentoratum(Strattburg). Sixteen Roman miles from Geneva,on the rued to Strattburg, the Itin, baa Enucstris,which is Colonia Equestris or Koviodunum (A'yon);and the next place is I.arus Lausonius, 20 Romann.iles from F.questris. To tlio next station, Urba(Orbe), is 18 Roman miles. In the Table the is u Lactim Losonne," and the distances from Generato Colonia Kqnestris and Lacum Losonne are respec­tively 18 M. 1'., or ,16 together. The Lacua Lanao-nius is supjiosed to be Aai&Kinae, on the Lair • fGenera; or rather a place or district, as D'Anvu*-calls it, named Vitli. The distance from GVn-'va tojVr/on, along the lake, is about 15 English miles;and from A'yon to Lausanne, about 22 or 23 miles.The distance from Geneva to Aywi ia nearly exact;but the 20 mill's from Equeatris to the Lacos Laa-sonius is not enough. If I'm/i, which U west of Los-gannr, is assumed to be the place, the mcasurea w ulagree better. IVAnvillc cites M. Bocbat as authorityfor an inscription, with the name Lousonnensea, hav­ing been dug up at f'idi, in 1739; and he add* thatthere arc remains there. (Comp. Ukert'a note. (ioLUrn, p. 491.) [G. L.] LAUTULAE or AD LAU'TULAS (ai fuJn-aoi. Diod.), is the name given by Livy to the passbetween '1 arracina and Fundi, where the road winJ*round the foot of tiie mountains, between them andthe sea, so as to fonn a narrow pass, easily defensibleagainst a hostile force. Tliis spot figures on two oc­casions in Roman history. In n. <*. 342 it was herethat the mutiny of the Roman army under C. Mar-eius Kulilus tirst broke out; one of the discontentedcohorts having seized and occupied the pass at 1 j»u-tulac, and thus formed n nucleus around which therest of the malcontents quickly assembled, untilthey thought themselves strong enough to inarchupon Rome. (Liv. vii. 39.) At a later period, iaH. c. 315, it was at Lautulac tliat a great battlewas fought between the Koinans. under the dictatorQ. Fabius, and the Samnites. Livy represents thiaas a drawn tattle, with no decisive result-; ImiI Lrhimself admits that some annalists related it as adefeat on the part of the Icunans, in which themaster of the horse, Q. Aulius, was slain (ix_ 23).Diodorus has evidently followed the annalists thus re­ferred to(xix. 72), and the incidental remark of Livyhimself shortly after, that il caused great agitationthroughout Campania, and led to the revolt of theneighbouring Ausonjau cities, would seem t» provethat the reverse must really have been much mereserious than be has chosen to represent it, (Liv. is.25: Niebuhr.vol. iii. pp.228—231.) The locality isalways designated by Livy as " ad Lautulas:' it aprobable that this was the name of the pas*, batwhether there was a village or other puur calledLautulas, we are unable to telL The nam* wasprobably derived from the existence of warm simrg»upon the spot- (Niebnhr, I. c, note 399.) It isevidently the same pass which was occupied byMinucius in the Second Punk War, in order toguard the approach to Latium from Cami*n.a(Liv. xxii. 15), though its name is 1*4 there men­tioned. The spot is now called Potto di Parulii,and is guarded by a tower with a gate, forming its*barrier between tlio Roman and Neapolitan terri­tories. (Eustace, voL ii. p. 309.) fE. IL B.] LAXTA. [Ckltibeiua] LAZI (Adfoi, Arrian, J'tripL p. U; Plin. vL 4;Aafoi, Ptol. v 10. § 5), one among the many triorswhich composed the indigenous population whataclustered round the great range of the Caacara*.'i his people, whose original seats were, according Usl'rocopiua (B. (1. iv. 2), on the N. side of the riveri'hosia, gave their name, in later times, to the eixiiarywhich was known to the Greeks and Romans a*Cole his, but which henceforth waa calkd "KrrmLaxica," They are frequently mentioned ia ths>