OCR Output 890 MERCURII PROM. MEROE. to signify the estimated width of the northern inletseparating the island from the main; and this esti­mate is probably much exasperated. The mode offishing with baskets is HtUl practised in the Jubahislands, and along the coast. The formation of thecoast of E. Africa in these latitudes—where the hillsor downs upon the coast are all formed of a coralconglomerate, comprising fragments of madrepore,shell, and sand—renders it likely that the islandwhich was close to the main sixteen or seventeencenturies ago, should now be united to it. Grantingthis theory of gradual transform at ion of the coast-line,the Menuthias of the "Periplas" may be supposedto have stood in what is now the rich garden-landof Shamba, where the rivers, carrying down mud tomingle with the marine deposit of coral drift, coveredthe choked-up estuary with a rich soil. (Cooley,Ptolemy and the Silt, London, 1854, pp. 56—68.) * [E. B. J.] MERCU'RII PROM. ('Epjuofo tkxpa, Ptol. iv. 3.§ 7; Pomp, Mela, i. 7. § 2 ; Plin. v. 3), the mostnortherly point of the const of Africa, to the E. of thegulf of Carthage, now Cape Bon, or the Rat Adddrof the natives. [E. B. J.] MERGABLUM, a town of Hispania Baetira, onthe road from Gades to Malaca, now Brger dt laMiel. {Mem. de tAcad. des Iiiscr. xxx. p. 111.) MERINUM. [Garoaxvs.] MERMESSUS (Mtpfxn(r<r6s or Mupmovro's), atown in Troas or Mysia, belonging to the territoryof Lampsacns, was celebrated in antiquity as thenative place of a sibyl (Steph. B. t. r.; Pans. x. 12.§ 2; Lactant. i. 6, 12, where it is called Marmessus;Suid. *. r.); but its exact site is unknown. [L. S.] MERORR1CA. [Mikoiirioa.] ME'KOE (Meptfij, Herod, ii. 29: Diod. i. 23,sen,.; Strab. xviii. p. 821; Plin. ii. 73. s. 78, t. 9.b. 10; Steph. B. *.».: Eth. Mtpoaios, Mtpowrios).The kingdom of Meroe lay between the modern hamletof Khartoum, where the Astapus joins the trueNile and the influx of the Astaboras into theirunited streams, lat. 17° 40' N., long. 34° E.Although described as an island by the ancientgeographers, it was properly an irregular space, likeMesopotamia, included between two or morn con­tinent rivers. According to Diodorus (i. 2.1) theregion of Meroe was 375 miles in length, and 125in breadth; but Strabo (xviii. p. 821) regards thesenumbers as referring to its circumference and dia­meter respectively. On its eastern side it wasbounded by the A byssinian highlands; on the westernby the Libyan sands — the desert of Bahiouda. Itsextreme southern extremity was, according to asurvey made in the reign of Nero, 873 miles distantfrom Syene. (Plin. vi. 29. s. 33.) Eratosthenes andArtemidorus, indeed, reduced this distance to 625and 600 miles. (Mannert, Gvy. <L Alton, x. p. 183.)Within these limits Meroe was a region of singularopulence, both as respects its mineral wealth and itscereal and leguminous productions. It possessed,on its eastern frontier, mines of gold, iron, copper,and salt: its woods of date-palm, almond-trees, andilex yielded abundant supplies of both fruit andtimber for export and home consumption; its mea­dows supported large herds of cattle, or produceddouble harvests of millet (fPiottrra); and its forestsand swamps abounded with wild beasts and game,which the natives caught and suited for food. Thebanks of the Nile are so high in this region, thatMeroe derives no benefit from the inundation, and,as rain falls scantily in the north, even in the wet season (Strab. xv. p. 690), the lands remote from therivers must always have !>ecn nearly desert. Batthe waste bore little proportion to the fertile lai>lsin a tract so intersected with streams; the artof irrigation was extensively practised; and to thesouth, where the hills rise towards Abywinia. therains are sufficient to maintain a considerable decreeof fertility. The valley of the Astaboras (Tocaru)is lower and warmer than the rest of Meroe. Partly from its natural richness, and partly firmits situation between Acthiopia and the Red t*a.—tfcsregions which produced spice, and those which yieUrdgold-dust, ivory, and precious stones,— Meme «ufrom very early times the seat of an active and diver­sified commerce. It was one of the capital centres ofthe caravan trade from Libya Interior, from the havenon the Red Sea, and from Aeirypt and Aethi-^oa.It was, in fact, the receptacle and terminus of theLibyan traffic from Carthage, on the one side, anifrom Adule and Berenice on the other. The miniof its cities, so far as they have been explored, attestits commercial prosperity. The site of the city of Meroe was placed byEratosthenes (op. Stmb. xvii. p. 786) 700 stadia,or nearly 90 miles, south of the junction of tbsNile with the Astaboras, lat. 16° 44'; and sorba position agrees with Philo's statement (ii. p. 77)that the sun was vertical there 45 daya before thesummer solstice. (Comp. Plin. vi. 30.) The pyra­mids scattered over the plains of this meaopotamUaregion indicate the existence of numerous citusbesides the capital. The ruins which have beesdiscovered are, however, those of either temples orpublic monuments, for the cities themselves, bringbuilt of palm-branches and bricks dried in the aim.speedily crumbled away in a latitude to which tbatropical rains partially extend. (Rttter, Africa,p. 542.) The remains of Meroe itself all he be­tween 16° and 17° 1st. N., and are not far (runthe Nile. The most southerly of them are foundat Naga-gebtUardan. Here hare been di>nnrr^dthe ruins of four temples, built in the Aegyp'.iaastyle, but of late date. The largest of them wasdedicated to the ram-headed deity Ammon. Tss)principal portico of this temple m detached from tbsmain building,— an unusual practice in AegvpCtauarchitecture,—and is approached through an a virusof sphinxes, 7 feet high, and also bearing the ramshead. The sculptures, like those of A'*2ypt, re­present historical events,— Ammon receiving tbthomage of a queen, or a king holding his captivesby the hair, and preparing to strike off tbeir hesutswith an axe. At Wood Saja, about a uale frcathe Astapus, are the remains of a sandstone trtrtf >.89 feet in length, bearing on the capital of itscolumns the figures and emblems of l*tah, AtH*-.and Typhon. These ruins are amidst rrh-ui-t* < {brick, which betoken the former presents of aaextensive city. Again, 16 or 17 mile* west of tbsAstapus, and among the hollows ««f the «and*tt*)*hills, surrounded by the desert, are the ruin* of' / .!-Mesaowat. Kight temples, connected with cosanother by galleries or colonnades, and divided inrwcourts and clusters, are here found. The »t»le %4architecture is that of the era of the Ptolemies. On (lie eastern bank, however, and about 2 stilesfrom the river, are found groups of pyramids, »k-..imark the site of a necropolis and the neu:hbourhr«ktof a city: they are 80 in number, ami of varWiasdimensions; the base of the largeet bring 63 retsquare, of the smallest less than 12 fret, lis