OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5^9 were obliged to content themselves with committing to the flamesthe volumes of holy scripture. The ministers of Diocletian werefollowed by a numerous body of guards and pioneers, who marchedin order of battle, and were provided with all the instruments usedin the destruction of fortified cities. By their incessant labour, asacred edifice, which towered above the imperial palace, and hadlong excited the indignation and envy of the Gentiles, was in afew hours levelled with the ground ,5°. .;> The next day the general edict of persecution was published 151; The first edictand though Diocletian, still averse to the effusion of blood, had TOO- Christians,derated the fury of Galerius, who proposed, that every one refusing bruary. °-to offer sacrifice, should immediately be burnt alive, the penaltiesinflicted on the obstinacy of the Christians, might be deemed suffi­ciently rigorous and effectual. It was enacted, that their churches,in all the provinces of the empire, should be demolished to theirfoundations; and the punishment of death was denounced againstall who should presume to hold any secret assemblies for the pur­pose of religious worship. The philosophers, who now assumed theunworthy office of directing the blind zeal of persecution, had di­ligently studied the nature and genius of the Christian religion;■and ' as they were not ignorant that the speculative doctrines of thefaith were supposed to be contained in the writings of the prophets,the evangelists, and the apostles, they most probably suggested theorder that the bishops and presbyters should deliver all theirsacred books into the hands of the magistrates, who were com--manded, under the-severest penalties, to burn them in a pub-lib and . solemn manner. By the> fame edict, the property of thechurch.was at once confiscated-} and the several parts of which itmight consist, were either fold-to the highest bidder, united to thfeimperial domain,.bestowed on the citie? and corporations, or granted-tathe solicitations of rapacious -courtiers. After taking such effect,tual measures to abolish thei worship, and- to- dissolve the goverrr"-j,;.\to.t*I. 4 D ment,