OCR Output 578 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. multitude were very desirous to see them, and they became con­spicuous among them all, as adorned with great blessings of for­tune, and having the countenances of persons of royal dignity.So they soon appeared to be the objects of envy to Salome, theking's sister, and to such as had raised calumnies against Ma-riamne; for they were suspicious, that when these came to thegovernment, they should be punished for the wickedness theyhad been guilty of against their mother: so they made this veryfear of theirs a motive to raise calumnies against them also.They gave it out that they were not pleased with their father'scompany, because he had put their mother to death, as if it werenot agreeable to piety to appear to converse with their mother'smurderer. Now by carrying these stories, that had indeed atrue foundation [in the fact,] but were only built on probabil­ities; as to the present accusation, they were able to do themmischief, and to make Herod take away that kindness from hissons which he had before borne to them, for they did not saythese things to him openly, but scattered abroad such wordsamong the rest of the multitude; from which words, when car­ried to Herod, he was induced [at last] to hate them, and whichnatural affection itself, even in length of time, was not able toovercome; yet was the king at that time in a condition to pre­fer the natural affection of a father before all the suspicions andcalumnies his sons lay under; So he respected them as he oughtto do, and married them to wives, now they were of an age,suitable thereto. To Aristobulus he gave for a wife Berenice,Salome's daughter, and to Alexander, Glaphyra, the daughterof Archelaus, king of Cappadocia. CHAP. II. How Herod twice sailed to Agrippa: and homo, upon the com­plaint of the Jews in Ionia, against the Greeks, Agrippa con­firmed the laws of the Jews to them. § 1. WHEN Herod had despatched these affairs, and heunderstood that Marcus Agrippa had sailed again out of Italyinto Asia, he made haste to him, and besought him to cometo him into his kingdom, and to partake of what he mightjustly expect from one that had been his guest, and was hisfriend. This request he greatly pressed, and to it Agrippaagreed and came into Judea; whereupon Herod omitted nothingtliat might please him. He entertained him in his new builtcities, and showed him the edifice he had built, and providedall sorts of the best and most costly dainties for him and hisfriends, and that at Sebaste and Cscsarea, about that port that