OCR Output NABATAEI.393 NABATAEI. the captivity. They were the friends and allies ofthe Jews in their straggle for independence; forwhen Judas Maccabaeus, with his brother Jonathan,found them 3 days S. of the Jordan (cir. n. c. 164),they received him amicably, and gave him informa­tion which led to the deliverance of the oppressedJews in Gilead from the Ammonites, under Timo-theus (Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 3; 1 Maccab. v. 24,Ac); and when preparing for an engagement withBavchides (cir. B. c. 161), the same Jonathan pro­posed to place all their moveable property in theircustody. (lb. xiii. 1. § 2; 1 Maccab. ix. 33.) Hutthe earliest and fullest notice of this people and oftheir country occurs in Diodorus Siculus, who men­tions them frequently. In B.C. 312, Antigonus,having recovered Syria and Palestine out of thehands of Ptolemy, resolved on an expedition againstthe Nabataei, and detached his general Athenaeuson this service, with 4000 light-armed troops and600 light cavalry. The manners of these Arabsand their country is described by the historian inthis connection. They inhabited tents in a vastdesert tract, which offered neither streams norfountains to an invading army. Their institutions,as described by him, bear a striking resemblance tothose of the Rechabites in every particular, "todrink no wine, nor to build houses, nor to have vine­yard, nor field, nor seed, but to dwell in tents."(Jer. vxxv. 6—11.) Diodorus mentions that theviolation of any of these customs was a capitalcrime. Their occupations were chiefly pastoral;some possessing camels and others sheep in muchgreater abundance than the other Arabs, althoughtheir number did not exceed 10,000; but they alsoacted as carriers of the aromatic drugs of ArabiaKelix, which were discharged at their great mart atPetra, and by them transported to the Mediter­ranean, at Hhinocorura. The love of liberty was apassion with thein; and their custom, when attackedby a more powerful enemy, was to retire to the wil­derness, whither the invaders could not follow theinfor want of water. They themselves had providedfor such emergencies vast subterranean reservoirs ofrain water, dug in the clayey soil, or excavated inthe soft rock, and plastered, with very narrowmouth-*,—which could be easily stopped and con­cealed from sight, but which were marked by indi­cations known only to themselves,—but graduallyexpanding until they attained the dimensions of 100feet square. They lived on flesh and milk, and onthe spontaneous produce of the country, such aspepper and wild honey, which they drank mixedwitl> water. There was an annual fair held in theircountry, to which the bulk of the males used toresort for purposes of truffle, leaving their flockswith their most aged men, and the women andchildren at Petra, naturally a very strong place,though unwalled, two days distant from the inha­bited country. Athenaeus took advantage of theabsence of the Nabataeans at the fair, to attackPetra; and making a forced march of 3 days and 3nizhts from the eparchy of Idumaea, a distance of2200 stadia, he assaulted the city about midnight,slaughtered and wounded many of its inhabitant1),and carried off an immense booty in spicery andsilver. [Pktka.] On his retreat, however, hewas surprised by the Nabataei, and all his forcescut to pieces, with the exception of 50 horsemen.Shortly afterwards Antigonus sent another expedi­tion against Petra, under the command of Demetrius;but the inhabitants were prepared, and Demetrius was glad to withdraw his army on receiving suchgifts as were most esteemed among them. (Diod.xix. 44—48, comp. ii. 48.) In the geographicalsection of his work the author places them on theLaianites Sinus, a bay of the Aelanitic gulf, and de­scribes thein as possessing many villages, both onthe coast and in the interior. Their country wasmost populous, and incredibly rich in cattle; buttheir national character had degenerated when hewrote (cir. u. c. 8). They had formerly lived ho­nestly, content with the means of livelihoodwhich their Hoiks supplied; but from the time thatthe kings of Alexandria had rendered the gulf navi­gable for merchant vessels, they not only practisedviolence as wreckers, but made piratical attacksfrom their coasts on the merchantmen in the passagethrough the gulf, imitating in ferocity and lawless­ness the Tauri in Pontus. Ships of war were sentagainst them, and the pirates were captured andpunished. (lb. iii. 42, comp. Strabo, xvi. p. 777.)The decrease of their transport trade and profits, bythe new channel opened through Egypt, was doubt­less the real cause of this degeneracy. The trade,however, was not entirely diverted; later writersstill mention Petra of the Nabataei as the great en­trepot of the Arabian commerce (Arrian, Periplus,p. 11, ap. Hudson, vol. i.), both of the Gerrhaeiof the west, and of the Minaei of the south of thatpeninsula. (Strabo, xvi. p. 776.) The account givenby Strabo agrees in its main features with the earlierrecord of Diodorus Siculus; and he records at lengththe deception practised on his friend Aelius Gallusby Syllaeus, the procurator (e'wiTpoirof) of the Na­bataei, under the king Obodas; a false friend of theRomans, through whose territory he first led themon leaving Leuce Come, where they had landed.The policy of Syllaeus illustrates the remark ofStrabo (xvi. p. 783), that the Nabataeans arc prudentand acquisitive; so much so, that those who wastedtheir property were punished, and those who in­creased it rewarded by the state. They had fewslaves among them; so they either waited on them­selves, or practised mutual servitude in families,even in the royal family. They were much ad­dicted to feasting, and their domestic mannersmarked considerable progress in luxury and refine­ment, from the rude simplicity of the primitive timesdescribed by the more ancient author (p. 783,scq.). He mentions that they were fire-worship­pers, and sacrificed duily to the sun on theirhouse-tops Their government may be styled alimited monarchy, as the king was subject to bepublicly called to account, and to have to defendhimself before the people. Their cities were un­walled, and their country fruitful in everythingbut the olive. The limits of their country are notclearly defined; Strabo places them above theSyrians, with the Sabaei, in Arabia Felix (xvi. p.779); but this must be a corrupt reading, and is in­consistent with his other notices of them. Thus hespeaks of the promontory near Seal Island — thepeninsula of Mount Sinai — as extending to Petraof the Arabs called Nabataei (p. 776), which hedescribes as situated in a desert region, particularlytowards Judaea, and only three or four days'journey from Jericho (p. 779). The approach toEgypt from the east, towards Phoeiiice and Judaea,was difficult by way of Pelusium, but fromArabia Nabataea it was easy. All these andsimilar notices serve to show that, from the age ofAntigonus to this period, the Nabataei had in­