OCR Output 342 TITUS LIVIUS" BOOK IV. the Roman territory, with a view to plunder. Havingafterward formed a junction with the army of the Ve-jentos, for tlie Falfsoi, notwithstanding tlie distress of theRoman republic, and the solicitations of their allies, weredetermined to he no more concerned, the two confederatearmies passed the Anio, and displayed their colours nearthe Colline-gate. . , The consternation was prodigious in town and country.The consul Icilius drew up his troops on the walls andrampart of the city, whilst Virginius consulted the senatein the temple of Romulus. There a dictator was resolv­ed on, and A. Servilius appointed to the commission, who,by some, is sirnamed Priscus, by others Structus. Virgi-nius only waited 10 advise his colleague, who having noobjection, lie named the dictator that night, who chosePosthumius JEbutius Elva, master of tlie horse. CHAP. XXII. The Vuhci and Fidenatcs beat, and Fidena taken. V-/RDERS were issutd by the dictator, that all shouldappear early next morning without the Colline'-gate;nor did any, who were able to carry arms, fail in theirobedience. The standards were brought him from thetreasury without a moment's delay. When the enemyobserved these motions, they retired to the eminences,whither the dictator foltowed them with an army suffi­ciently engaged: and coming to blows with them nearNomenton, gave the legions of Etruria a severe drubbing,and pursued them to the city Fidenat, where he blockedthem up. But, as the city stood high and strongly for­tified, it could not be taken by escalade, nor could ablockade have been of any service, as they had not onlyprovisions sufficient for the present, but large magazinespreviously laid in. Therefore, finding it would Tie im­practicable to carry the city by storm or blockade, thedictator resolved to open a passage under ground to thecitadel, from places near enough to be sufficiently ex­amined,-at the back of the town, where it was guardedwith least care, as being most strongly fortified by na­ture.