OCR Output 158 LEONTINL LEONTINI. identical with Nahr-ed'D&mur, half way betweenBeyrut and Saula, Lion's town and river should belooked tor south of this, and north of Sidon. Theonly it ream in this interval is XaJtr-tl-Auljf, calledalso in its upper part A'oAr Baruk, which L>r. Rohin-son has shown to be the Ilostrenus Fluviu*. [Bo-8Ti:kni*s.] This, therefore, Mannert seemed to havesufficient authority for identifying with the Leontes.Hut the existence of the Litany—a name supposedto be similar to the /pontes — between Sidon andTyre, is thought to countenance the conjecture thntPtolemy has misplaced the Leontes, which is in factidentical with the anonymous river which Strabomentions near Tyre (p. 7.r>8), which can be no otherthan the Litany (Robinson, Bib. lies. vol. Ui. pp. 408—410, and notes). No great reliance, however, canbe placed on the similarity of names, as the formLeonh* is merely the inflexion of A«wvt which wasnot likely to be adopted in Arabic. It is far moreprobable that the classical geographer in this, as inother cases, translated the Semitic name. [SeeCams and Lycxh.] Besides which the Litanydoes not retain thin name to the coast, but is herecalled Nahr-el-Katimiyeh, the Casimeer of Maun-drell (March 20, p. 48; Ucland, J'alaestina, pp. 290,291.) [G. W.] LEONTI'NI (_t\*ovrtPot: Kth. Aeoirovoj: Ltn-tint), a city of Sicily, situated between Syracuseand Catana, but about eight miles from the sea-coast, near a considerable lake now known as theJjoijo di LentinL The name of Leontini is evidentlyan ethnic form, signifying properly the people ratherthan the city itself; but it teems to have been theonly one in nse, ami is employed both by Greek andLatin writers (declined as a plural adjective*), withthe single exception of Ptolemy, who calls the cityA*6vrtoy or Leontium. (l'tol. iii. 4. § 13.) Butit is clear, from the modern form of the name,Lentini^ that the form Leontini, which we finduniversal in writers of the best ages, continued incommon u.-*e down to a late period. All ancientwriters concur in representing Leontini as a Greekcolony, and one of those of Chalcidian origin, beingfounded by Chalcidic colonists from Naxos, in thesame year with Catana, and six years after theparent city of Naxos, b,c 730. (Thuc, vi. 3; Scyinn.Ch. 2S3; Died. xii. 53, xiv. 14.) According toThucydides, the site had been previously occupiedby Siculi, bat these were expelled, and the city be.came essentially a Greek colony. We know little ofits early history; but, from the strength of its po­rtion and the extreme fertility of its territory(renowned in all ages for its extraordinary richness),it appears to have early attained to great prosperity,and became one of the most considerable cities in theE. of Sicily. The rapidity of its rise is attested bythe fact that it was able, in its turn, to found thecolony of Euboea (Strab. vi. p. 272; Scymn. Cb.287), apparently at a very early period. It Uprobable, also, that the three Chalcidic cities, Leon­tini, Naxos, and Catana, from the earliest periodadopted the same line of policy, and made commoncause against their Dorian neighbours, as we findthem constantly doing in biter times. The government of leontini was an oligarchy, batit fell at one time, like so many other cities of Sicily,under the yoke of a despot of the name of Panaetius,who is said to have been the first instance of the * Polybius uses the fuller phrase if rir A«or-fivatv w6\u (vii. 6). kind in Sicily. His usurpation is referred by F.u-sebius to the 43rd Olympiad, or o. c. 608. (Arut-Pol v. 10, 12; Kuseb. Ann. vol. ii. p. 109.) Leontini appears to have retained its independ­ence till after it. c. 498, when it fell under the yokeof Hippocrates, tyrant of Gela (Herod, vii. 154):after which it seems to have passed in successionunder the authority of Gelon and Hierun of Syra­cuse; as we find that, in B.C. 476, the Utter despot,having expelled the inhabitants of Catana and Naxosfrom their native cities, which he peopled with newcolonists, established the exile* at Leontini. tin- pos­session of which they shared with its former citizens.(Diod. xi. 49.) We find no special mention ofLeontini in the revolutions that followed tbe deathof Hieron; but there is no doubt that it regained itsindependence after the expulsion of Thrasybulus,n. C. 466, and the jieriod which followed w;»s pro­bably that of the greatest prosperity of Leontini. aswell as the other Chalcidic cities of Sicily. (Diod.xi. 72, 76.) But its proximity to Syracuse becamethe source of fresh troubles to Leontini. In B-c427 the Leon tines found themselves engaged in hos­tilities with their more powerful neighbour, and,being unable to cope single-handed with the Syra-sans, they applied for suppo:t not only to theirChalcidic brethren, bat to the Athenians also, whosent a fleet of twenty ships to their assistance, underthe command of Laches and Cbaroeadee, (Tliue. iiiS6 ; Diod. xii. 53 ) The operations of the Athenianfleet under Ladies and his successors I'ythodurueand Eurymedon were, however, confined to the partof Sicily adjoining the Straits of Mes&ana: tbeLeon tines received no direct support from them,but, after the war had continued for some years,they were included in the general pacification ofGela, b. c 424, which fur a time secured them inthe possession of their independence. (Thuc it. 58,65.) This, however, did not last long: the Sy-racusans took advantage of intestine dnwensiceMamong the Leon tines, and, by espousing tbe cause ufthe oligarchy, drove the democratic party into exile,while they adopted the oligarchy and richer rliMCias Syracusan citizens. The greater part of thelatter body even abandoned tbeir own city, and mi­grated to Syracuse; but quickly returned, anil for atime joined with the exiles in holding it out againsttbe power of the Syracusans. Hut t)»e Athenians,to whom they again applied, were unable to renderthem any effectual assistance; they were a seumdtime expelled, n.c. 422, and Leontini became a m«-redependency of Syracuse, though always retainingsome importance as a fortress, from the strength ofits position. (Thuc. v. 4; Diod. xii. 54.) In b. c. 417 the Leoutinc exiles are mentioned aajoining with the Segestans in urging on the Athe­nian expedition to Sicily (Diod. xii. 83; Flut. JVar.12); and their restoration was maoe one of th*avowed objects of the enterprise. (Thuc, vi. 50.)But the failure of that expedition left them withoutany hope of restoration ; and Leontini continued inits subordinate and fallen condition till B.c.406*when the Syracusans allowed the unfortunate Ajrn-gentines, after the capture of their own city by theCarthaginians, to establish them»eke* nt I^rceitiiu.The lieloans and Cawurinaean* followed their ex-ample the next year: the Leontine exiles of Syracuseat the same time took the opportunity to return Wtheir native city, and declare themselves indr|«ihirat,and the treaty of peace concluded by Inonyuu* withHiiniico, in n. c. 405, expressly sttjHiUtrd fur th*