OCR Output SELINUS. SELLASIA. 959 M is consecrated to Aesculapius, as indicatedi UK rock which stands below it. The subject ofin IJpe evidently refers to a story related bytqmm Laertios (viii. 2. § 11) that the Selinun-[» were afflicted with a pestilence from theanhr character of the landB adjoining the neigh-wis^ river, but that this was cured by works ofur»ie, suggested by Empedocles. The figureuiaf on the coin is the river-god Selinus, whichi< :hos made conducive to the salubrity of the[E. H. B.] COIW OF SELISL'S StLl'XUS (2«Au*o0s: Eth. 2t\ivovirrios or 2r-w»j»os: Stlenti), a port-town on the wot coast ofwia, at the mouth of a small river of the same»», wbkh is now called SeUnti (Scylax, p. 40;.uxiii.20; Strab. xiv. p. 682; Ptol. v. 8. § 2, 1. IT. § 42; Plin. t. 22.) This town is memorablebatny as the place where, in A. D. 117, the em- 1•€ Trajan is said by some authors to have died \ 00 Casalxviii. 33). After this event the place for jwe bore the name of Trajanopolis; but its bishopsrwards are called bishops of Selinus. (Hierocl. p. i>) Basil of Seleucia {Vita S. Theclae, ii. 17)nbet the place as reduced to a state of insig-aoce in his time, though it had once been a greatowroal town. (Comp. Staduum. Mar. Mag. §§1.204; Lucan, viii.260; CArwi./>ajcAafc,p.253.)■ns was situated on a precipitous rock, sur-'lal on almost every side by the sea, by whichtarn it was rendered almost impregnable. The•• the rock, however, was not included in■acient line of fortifications; inside the walls • itill are many traces of houses, but on thelit, and between the foot cf the hill and the', tie remains of some large buildings are yetuse, which appear to be a mausoleum, an agora,atir, an aqueduct, and some tombs (Beaufort,ax»u,p. 186, foil.) *pn ting the small river Selinus, flowing byimam, see Peboamum, p. 575. [L. S.]tLLA'SIA (2cAAao-ia, Xen. Pohb. Diod.; 2«-svSteps. B., Hesych. i. v.; the latter is perhapsomrct form, and may come from o-cAor; the 1 U connected by Hesychius with ArtemisSI: Elk. 2eAAa<ri(i/{, 2*Aair«ci), a town ofecj. situated in the valley of the Ocnus, onnul leading from Tcgea and Argos, and one ■ bulwark* of Sparta against an invading. Its distance from Sparta is nowhere men-1; but from the description which Puljbii s : the celebrated battle fought in its neigh-wil between Antigonus and Cleomencs, it isi*e that the plain of Krtvatd was the site • bailie. We learn from Polybius that this ■ took place in a narrow opening of the vale ofOhzus, between two hills named Evas andft, and that the river Gorgylus flowed acrosspais into the Evenua. South of the Khan of Krtvatd is a small plain, the only one in the valley of the Ocnus, about ten minutes in width and aquarter of an hour in length, at the end of whichthe rocks again approach so close as barely to leaveroom for the passage of the river. The mountain,which bounds this plain on the east, is Olympus, acontinuation of the mountain of Vrtsthtna: it risesvery steep on the left bank of the Oenus. Themountain on the western side is Evas, now Turlats,which, though not so steep, is still inaccessible tocavalry. Towards the north the plain is shut in bya mountain, over which the road leads to Tegea,and towards the south by a still higher mountain.The Oenus, which flows near the eastern edge ofthe plain, can be crossed at any point without diffi­culty. It receives on its right side a small brook,the Gorgylus, which descends from a ravine on thenorthern side of Mt. Evas. On the summit of thehill, more than 2800 feet above the sea, which shutsin the plain on the south, and over which the roadleads to Sparta, are the ruins of Sellasia, describedbelow. The battle of Sellasia, of which Polybius gives adetailed account, requires a few words of explanation.In B.C. 221, Cleomenes, the Spartan king, ex­pecting that Antigonus, the Macedonian king, andthe Achaeans, would invade Laconia, fortified theother passes which led into the country, and tookup his own position with the main body of his forcesin the plain of Sellasia, since the roads to Spartafrom Argos and Tegea united at this point. Hisarmy amounted to 20,000 men, and consisted ofLacedaemonians, Perioeci, allies, and mercenaries.His left wing,containing the Perioeci and allies, wasstationed on Mt. Evas under the command of hisbrother Eucleidas; his right wing, consisting of thoLacedaemonians and mercenaries, encamped uponMt. Olympus under his own command; while hiscavalry and a part of the mercenaries occupied thesmall plain between the hills. The whole line wasprotected by a ditch and a palisade. Antigonusinarched into Laconia from Argos with an army of30,000 men, but found Cleomenes so strongly in­trenched in this position, that he did not venture toattack him, but encamped behind the small streamGorgylus. At length, after several days' hesitation,both sides determined to join battle. Antigonusplaced 5000 Macedonian pcltasts, with the greaterpart of his auxiliary troops, on his right wing tooppose Eucleidas; his cavalry with 1000 Achaeansand the same number of Megalopolitans in the smallplain; while he himself with the Macedonian pha­lanx and 3000 mercenaries occupied the left wing, inorder to attack Cleomenes and the Lacedaemonianson Jit. Olympus. The battle began on the side ofMt. Evas. Eucleidas committed the error of awaitingthe attack of the enemy upon the brow of the hill,instead of availing himself of his superior positionto charge down upon them; but while they wereclimbing the hill they were attacked upon the rearby some light troops of Cleomenes, who were sta­tioned in the centre with the Lacedaemonian cavalry.At this critical moment, Philopoemen, who was inthe centre with the MegalopoliUn horse, diverted theattack of the light infantry by charging withoutorders the Lacedaemonian centre. The right wingof the Macedonians then renewed their attack, de­feated the left wing of the Lacedaemonians, anddrove them over the steep precipices on the oppositeside of Mt. Evas. Cleomenes, perceiving that theonly hope of retrieving the day was by the defeat