OCR Output 470 DISSERTATION I. These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for Jamesthe Just, who was the brother of Jesus that was called Christ,on this account, that they had slain him who was a mostrighteous person. The same Josephus declares the manner of his death in thetwentieth book of the Antiquities, in these words : — Caesarsent Albinus into Judea to be procurator, when he had heardthat Festus was dead. Now Ananus junior, who, as wc said,had been admitted to the high-priesthood, was in his temperbold and daring in an extraordinary manner. He was alsoof the sect of the Sadducees, who are more savage in judgmentthan any of the other Jews, as we have already signified.Since, therefore, this was the character of Ananus, he thoughthe had now a proper opportunity [to exercise his authority,]because Festus was dead, and Albinus was but upon the road;so he assembles the sanhedrim of judges, and brings beforethem James, the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, andsome others [of his companions,] and when he had formed anaccusation against them, as breakers of the law, he deliveredthem to be stoned: but as for those who seemed the mostequitable of the citizens, and those who were the most uneasyat the breach of the laws, they disliked what was done. Theyalso sent to the king [Agrippa,] desiring him to send toAnanus that he should act so no more, for that what he hadalready done could not be justified, &c. About A. D. 360. Ambrose or Hegesippus de Excul.Urb. lIierosolym. lib. ii. cap. 12.—We have discovered thatit was the opinion and belief of the Jews, as Josephus affirms(who is an author not to be rejecter], when he writes againsthimself,) that Herod lost his army, not by the deceit of men,but by the anger of God, and that justly, as an effect of re­venge for what he did to John the Baptist, a just man, whohad said to him, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother'swife. The Jews themselves also bear witness to Christ, as appearsby Josephus, the writer of their history, who says thus: —That there was at that time a wise man, if, says he, it belawful to have him called a man, a doer of wonderful works,