OCR Output 478 ROMAN EMPIRE. composition, of the Greek fire. It was at length eitherdiscovered or stolen by the Mahometans; and, in theholy wars of Syria and Egypt, they retorted an invention,contrived against themselves, on the heads of the Chris­tians. A knight, who despised the swords and lances ofthe Saracens, relates, with heartfelt sincerity, his ownfears, and those of his companions, at the sight and soundof the mischievous engine that discharged a torrent ofthe Greek fire, the feu G.regeois, as it sty led by the moreearly of the French writers. It came flying through theair, says Joinville/ like a winged long-tailed dragon,about the thickness of a hogshead, without the report ofthunder, and the velocity of lightning; and the darknessof the night was dispelled by this deadly illumination.The use of the Greek, or, as it might now be called, theSaracen fire, was continued to the middle of the four­teenth century," when the scientific, or casual compoundof nitre, sulphur, and charcoal, effected a new revolutionin the art of war, and the history of mankind."invasion Constantinople and the Greek fire might ex-elude the Arabs from the eastern entrance ofEurope; but in the west, on the side of the Py-rennees, the provinces of Gaul were threatenedand invaded by the conquerors of Spain.b The decline > Histoire de St. Louis, p. 39. Paris, 1688, p. 44. Paris, de I'lmprimerieRoyale, 1761. The former of these editions is precious for the observations of Da-cange; the latterforthe pure and original text of Joinville. Wemosthave recourseto that text to discover, that the fen Gregeois was shot with a pile or javelin, froman engine that acted like a sling. * The vanity, orenvy, of shakmg the established property of Fame, has temptedsome moderns to carry gunpowder above the fourteenth, (see sir William Temple,Datens, &c.) and the Greek fire above the seventh century; (see the Saloste da Pre­sident dos Brasses, torn. 2. p. 381.) but their evidence, which precedes the vulgarera of the invention, is seldom clear or satisfactory, and subsequent writers may besuspected of fraud or credulity. In the earliest sieges, some combustibles of oil andsulphur have been used, and the Greek fire has some affinities with gunpowder bothin nature and effects: for the antiquity of the first, a passage of Procopius; (deBell. Goth. lib. 4. c. 11.) for that of the second, some facts in the Arabic history ofSpain, (A. D. 1349, 1312,1332. Bibliot . Arab. Hisp. torn. 2. p. 6—8.) are the mostdifficult to elude. m That extraordinary man. Friar Bacon, reveals two of the ingredients, sallpeoeand sulphur, and conceals the third in a sentence of mysterious gibberish, as if hedreaded the consequences of his own discovery. (Biographia Britannica, vol. l.p.430. new edition.) 'For the invasion of France, and the defeat of the Arabs by Charles Martel, seethe Historia Arabum (... 11—14.) of Roderic Ximenes, archbishop of Toledo, who