OCR Output OSCINEIUM.OSISHL 499 •^bkttrnood of Bantia, on the borders of Apuliaui Loeaaia. aad which refers tu the municipalof that town; 2. the Cippus Abellanus, soi baring been found at Abella in Cam-pacua, and attaining a treaty fir agreement betweenla* two neighbouring cities of Kola and Abella;dill brume tablet recently discovered in thef.-abavnoud of Agmone in northern Samnium,r^."jcuBe a dedication of various sacred offerings.1: j remarkable that these three monument*) havein nearly the moat distant quarters ofterritory. By the assistance of the nu-i'TT inscriptions, we may fix pretty clearlyI within which the language was spoken.Tary or hide, besides Campania and Samniumb"5»r. tie land of the Hirpini and Frentani, andtb» arthra part of Apulia. No inscriptions in<J»u have been found in I.ncania (except imme-'ea its borders) or Bruttium, though it is! in both of these countries the Sabellianintroduced the Oscan language, or oneaWeh connected with it; and we are distinctly|ti by Festos that the Bruttians spoke Greek and(Feat p. 35, M.) We learn also with cer-that Qui onhy the vernacular, but even theof the Oscan language continued in• l!aJy Ing alter the Roman conquest. IndeedIU any, of the extant inscriptions date from anThe comic poet Titinius alludes to1 s talrci still in common use in his time, about. 17a (Fas*, a. p. Optcum, p. 189.) The coinsMarx by the Samitites and their allies during thebl War (a. c. 90—88) bare Oacan inscriptions;r 2 u ^vbah!* that, after the close of that contestadmission of the Italians to theLatin became universal as thekuvuage of Italy. Oscan, however, mustraK.-u.ee4 to be spoken, not only in the moreir-r"""1 districts, but even in the towns,least, until a much later period; asinscriptions rudely scratched or; cat th« walls, which from their hasty exe-1 aad temporary character cannot be supposedexisted kJO£ before the destruction of the>*.». 79. siatj the remains of the Oscan languageCmttr-ltalUchcn IHoUite, 4to. Leip-Kl^nx*, Philologische Abhandlungen,1 a39; and Donaldson, Varronianus, L> ace of the Oscans having anyrly ao called; but it was certainlythat the Romans derived the dramatic■Ileal Atellanae, a kind of rudelSi't bearing considerable resemblance toof Falcinello, still so popular at1 ia its neighbourhood. When these wereto Ro:ue they were naturally renderedirxt though Slrabo is probably mistakenof the Fabulae Atellanae of his day asU Raw** in Oscan, it is very naturalLa*"V were still so exhibited in Cam-aaj as the Oacan language continued inar aa that country. (Strab. v. p. 233;Ifca Fabolar Atellanae see Mommsen,Lilt; Bernhardt, Bomische I.iieratur, p.Ls lfank. afc FabtUU AteUank, Lips. [E. H. B.] _ JX, a name which appears in the Je-■ kac x. the road from Vasatae (Bazas) to■> [Coajajto; EtxaATES.] The order of names is Vasatae, Tres Arbores, Oscineium, Sat'tium or Sotium, and Elusa. Oscineium is marked atthe distance viii. from the two places between whichit lies. D'Anville finds on this road a place namedEsquies, which in name and position agrees prettywell with the Oscineium of the Itin. [G. L.] OSERIATES ('OfMp/aTf«), a tribe of PannoniaSuperior, dwelling on the banks of the river Dravus;but nothing is known about them but their name.(Ptol. ii. 15. § 2; Plin. iii. 28.) [L. S.] OSI, a German tribe mentioned only by Tacitus(Germ. 28, 43), as dwelling beyond the Quadi, in awoody and mountainous country. But their nationalcustoms, as well as their language, were those of thePannonians. They were, moreover, tributary to theQuadi and Sarmatae. The exact districts they in­habited cannot be determined, nor do we knowwhether they had migrated into Germany from Pan­nonia, or whether they were an ancient remnant ofPannonians in those districts. [L. S.] OSIANA, a town in the west of Cappadocia, be­tween the river Halys and lake Tatta, on the roadfrom Ancyra to Caesarea (/'. Ant. p. 206). Itasite must probably be looked for in the district ofJwkup or Uryub. S.] OS1SMI or OSISMII ( Oo-iV/nw), a Celtic peoplewho joined the Vcneti in the war against Caesar,b. c. 56. (B. G. iii. 9.) There is nothing inCaesar which shows their position further than this,that they were in the peninsula of Bretagne.Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 5) makes them extend as farsouth as the Gobaeum headland, and he names Vor­ganism as their chief city. [Gobaeum.] If wcaccept the authority of Meia, who says (iii. 6) thatthe island Sena (&m) is opposite to the shores ofthe Osismii, this will help us to determine thosouthern limit of the Osismii, and will confirm thoconjecture of Gobaeum being the headland calledHnz Pointe, which is opposite to the small island•Sein, or as it is improperly called Isle des Saints; orbeing somewhere near that headland. In anotherpassage (iii. 2) Mela makes the great bend of thewest coast of Gallia commence where the limits ofthe Osismii end: "ab illis enim iterum ad septentri-ones frons littorum respicit, pertinetque ad ultimosGallicarum gentium AIorino6." Pliny (iv. 18)describes this great peninsula of Bretagne thus:"Gallia Lugdunensis contains a considerable penin­sula, which runs out into the ocean with a circuit of625 miles, beginning from the border of the Osismii,the neck being 125 miles in width: south of it arethe Nannetes." It is plain then that Pliny placedthe Osismii along the north coast of Bretagne,and there is Mela's authority for placing them on thowest coast of the peninsula. The neck of the penin­sula which Pliny describes, may be determined by aline drawn from the bay of St. Brieuc on the northto Lorient on tho south, or rather to some of thebays east of it, or Morbihan. it seems a fair con­clusion, that tho Osismii occupied a large part of thepeninsula of Bretagne; or as Strabo (iv. p. 195) says:"Next to the Veueti are the Osismii, whom Pytheascalls Timii, who dwell in a peninsula which runsout considerably into the ocean, but not so far asPytheas says and those who believe him." He doesnet tell us bow far Pytheas said that the peninsularan out into the sea, but if we had Pytheas' words,we might find that he knew something about it.The conclusion ol D'Anville is justified by the ancientauthorities. He says: "It seems that it has beenagreed np to the present time to limit the territory k k 2