OCR Output xlvi On his Qualifications as a Historian. whom he wrote, without fear of their resentment, and couldpraise without being in the reach of a requital. Human na­ture will not admit of a stricter independence. His unconcern about the opinions of a present generation,is strong and clear. It looks as if he thought they wouldscarce give him a reading, so little care had he taken to soothor to amuse them. He had a greater aim than to be theauthor in vogue for a year. He hated contention, and scorn­ed short-lived temporary applause. He threw himself onposterity. He appealed to the future world for the value ofthe present he had made them. The judgment of succeed­ing ages hath approved the compliment he thus made totheir understandings. So long as there are truly greatprinces, able statesmen, sound politicians, politicians that donot rend asunder politics from good order and the generalhappiness, he will meet with candid and grateful acknow­ledgments of his merit. Other historians have sooner pleased, have more diffu­sively entertained. They have aimed more directly at thepassions, have more artificially and successfully struck at theimagination. Truth in its severity, and Jteason in its robustand manly state, are all the Muses and Graces to whichThucydides hath done obeisance. Can we wonder, that hehath not been more generally read and admired ? or, couldwe wonder, if he had not been so much ? A great workplanned under such circumstances and with such qualifica­tions as I have been describing, cool serious judgment willalways commend as a noble design, even though executed itmay prove too cheerless to the more lively passions, its relishnot sufficiently quick for the popular taste, or piquant enoughto keep the appetite sharp and eager. But to proceed. Thucydides hath been censured in re­gard to the choice of his subject. It hath occasioned thesolidity of his judgment and excellence of his taste to becalled in question. Dionysius of Halicarnassus hath exert­ed himself much on this account; hath tried him by laws,