OCR Output an. 1748.] 55 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was no returning into Egypt unless they camewith what they had promised. Now themisery growing every day worse, and his sonsbegging it of him, he had no other course totake in his present circumstances; and Judas,who was of a bold temper on other occasions,spake his mind very freely. He told him,that it did not become him to be afraid onaccount of his son, nor to suspect the worst,as he did; for nothing could be done to hisson but by the appointment of God; whichmust also for certain come to pass though hewere at home with him: that he ought notto condemn them to such manifest destruc­tion, nor deprive them of that plenty of foodthey might have from Pharaoh, by his unrea­sonable fear about his son Benjamin, butought to take care of the preservation ofSimeon; lest by attempting to hinder Benja­min's journey, Simeon should perish. Heexhorted him to trust God for him; and saidhe would either bring his son back to himsafe, or, together with his, lose his own life.So that Jacob was at length persuaded, anddelivered Benjamin to them, with the price ofthe corn doubled ;* he also sent presents toJoseph, of the fruits of the land of Canaan;balsam,t and rosin, as also turpentine andhoney. Now their father shed many tears atthe departure of his sons, as well as them­selves; his concern was, that he might receivethem back again safe after their journey; andtheir concern was, that they might find theirfather well, and no way afflicted with thegrief for them. And this lamentation lasteda whole day; so that the old man was at last tired with grief, and stayed behind; but theywent on their way for Egypt, endeavouring tomitigate their grief for their present misfor­tunes, with the hopes of better success here­after. As soon as they came into Egypt they werebrought down to Joseph; but here no smallfear disturbed them, lest they should be ac­cused about the price of the corn, as if theyhad cheated Joseph. They therefore made along apology to Joseph's steward, and toldhim that when they came home they foundthe money in their sacks; and that they hadnow brought it along with them. He said hedid not know what they meant. So they weredelivered from that fear. And when he hadloosed Simeon, and put him into a handsomehabit, he suffered him to be with his brethren:at which time Joseph came from his attend­ance on the king. So they offered him theirpresents, and upon his putting the question tothem about their father, they answered thatthey found him well. He also, upon his dis­covery that Benjamin was alive, asked, whe­ther this was their youngest brother? for theyhad not seen him. Whereupon they said hewas; he replied, that the God over all washis protector. But when his affection madehim shed tears, he retired; desiring he mightnot be seen in that state by his brethren.Then Joseph took them to supper; and theywere seated in the same order as they used tosit at their father's table. And although Josephtreated them all kindly, yet did he send amess to Benjamin, that was donbleJ to whatthe rest of the guests had for their shares.|| * Gen. xliii. 12. t Of the precious balsam of Judea, and the turpentine,see note on VIII. 6. J Five times as much. Heb. and Septuagint. 11 The reason which some assign for the Egyptians re­fusing to eat with the Hebrews, was their sacrificing somecreatures which the Egyptians worshipped: but though,in after ages, they certainly did worship several kinds ofanimals, yet there appears nothing from the story thatthey did so in Joseph's days; for their worship of thefamous ox, called Apis, was a much later invention, asmany learned men have demonstrated. It is much morelikely therefore, that this great abhorrence should be re­solved into their different manner, both of dressing andeating their victuals. No people, as Herodotus tells, (evenwhere he treats of their manner of feasting, Euterpe, c. 28.)were more tenacious of their old customs than the Egyp­tians. They would not use those of any other nationwhatever; and therefore the Hebrews were not the onlypeople they had an aversion to. For (as the same histo- voL. I. No. 5- rian informs us) an Egyptian man, or woman, would not kissthe mouth of a Greek, would not make use of a spit or apot belonging to them; nor eat any meat that was cut withone of their knives. Patrick's and Le Clerc's Commentary.The manner of eating among the ancients was not for allthe company to eat out of one and the same dish, but forevery one to have one or more dishes to himself. Thewhole of these dishes were set before the master of thefeast, and he distributed to every one his portion. AsJoseph, however, is here said to have had a table to him­self, we may suppose, that he had a great variety of littledishes, or plates set before him; and as it was a custom forgreat men to honour those who were in their favour, bysending such dishes to them as were first served up tothemselves, Joseph shewed that token of respect to hisbrethren: but to express a particular value for Benjamin,he sent him five dishes to their one, which disproportioncould not but be marvellous and astonishing to them, ifwhat Herodotus tells us be true, 1. 6. c. 27. viz. "Thatthe distinction in this case, even to Egyptian kings them-