OCR Output 6 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. the contribution had been not merely suspended, but remittedby the Romans. Thereupon Nobilior appeared in HitherSpain with an army of nearly 30,000 men, including someNumidian horsemen and ten elephants. The walls of thenew town of Segeda still stood unfinished: most of theinhabitants submitted. But the most resolute men fledwith their wives and children to the powerful Arevacae, andsummoned these to make common cause with them againstthe Romans. The Arevacae, emboldened by the victory ofthe Lusitanians over Mummius, consented, and chose Carus,one of the Segedan refugees, as their general. On the thirdday after his election the valiant leader had fallen, but theRoman army was defeated and nearly 6000 Roman burgesseswere slain; the 23rd day of August, the festival of theVulcanalia, was thenceforth held in sad remembrance bythe Romans. The fall of their general, however, inducedthe Arevacae to retreat into their strongest town Nu-mantia (Guarray, a Spanish league to the north of Soria onthe Douro), whither Nobilior followed them. Under thewalls of the town a second engagement took place, in whichthe Romans at first by means of their elephants drove theSpaniards back into the town; but while doing so they werethrown into confusion in consequence of one of the animalsbeing wounded, and sustained a second defeat at the handsof the enemy again issuing from the walls. This and othermisfortunes—such as the destruction of a corps of Romancavalry despatched to call forth the contingents—impartedto the affairs of the Romans in the Hither province so un­favourable an aspect that the fortress of Ocilis, where theRomans had their chest and their stores, passed over to theenemy, and the Arevaca e were in a position to think of dictat­ing peace, although without success, to the Romans. Thesedisadvantages, however, were in some measure counter­balanced by the successes which Mummius achieved in thesouthern province. Weakened though his army was by thedisaster which it had suffered, he yet succeeded in inflicting adefeat on the Lusitanians who were imprudently scatteredon the right bank of the Tagus; and passing over to the leftbank, where the Lusitanians had overrun the whole Romanterritory and had even made a foray into Africa, he clearedthe southern province of the enemy.152. To the northern province in the following year (C02) the Marcellus. senate sent considerable reinforcements and a new com-