OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 11 existence; that the Almighty had been scourged andcrucified; that his impassible essence had felt pain andanguish; that his omniscience was not exempt fromignorance, and that the source of life and immoralityexpired on mount Calvary. These alarming conse­quences were affirmed with unblushing simplicity byApollinaris,* bishop of Laodicea, and one of the lumi­naries of the church. The son of a learned gramma­rian, he was skilled in all the sciences of Greece; elo­quence, erudition, and philosophy, conspicuous in thevolumes of Apollinaris, were humbly devoted to theservice of religion. The worthy friend of Athanasius,the worthy antagonist of Julian, he bravely wrestledwith the Arians and Polytheists, and, though he affectedthe rigour of geometrical demonstration, his commen­taries revealed the literal and allegorical sense of theScriptures. A mystery, which had long floated in thelooseness of popular belief, was defined by his perversediligence in a technical form; and he first proclaimedthe memorable words,—One incarnate nature of Christ,which are still re-echoed with hostile clamours in thechurches of Asia, Egypt, and ^Ethiopia. He taughtthat the Godhead was united or mingled with the bodyof a man; and that the Logos, the eternal Wisdom,supplied in the flesh the place and office of a humansoul. Yet as the profound doctor had been terrified athis own rashness, Apollinaris was heard to mutter somefaint accents of excuse and explanation. He acqui­esced in the old distinction of the Greek philosophers,between the rational and sensitive soul of man; that hemight reserve the Logos for intellectual functions, andemploy the subordinate human principle in the meaneractions of animal life. With the moderate Docetes, he • For Apollinaris and his sect, see Socrates, lib. 2. c. 46. lib. 3. c. 16. Sozomen,lib. 5. c. 18. lib. 6. c. 95—27. Theodoret, lib. 5. 3.10,11. Tillemont, MemoiresEccleaiastiques, torn. 7. p. 602—638. Not. p. 789—794. in quarto, Venise, 1732.The contemporary saints always mention the bishop of Laodieen, as a friend andbrother. The style of the more recent historians is harsh and hostile; yet Philp-•torghii compares him (lib. 8. c. 11—15.) to Basil and Gregory.