OCR Output .VI INDIA. INDIA. Ganges, commencing with Taxila near the Indus,or Ijthort on that river, and panning thence toPalilxtthrx. This was called the Knyal Knad. ItU remarkable that the Ramayana describes a roadfrom Ayodhiya ((>«&), over the Ganges and the.Jumna, to Hasthiapura'■ and Lahore, wliirh must bonearly identical with that mentioned in the Greekgeographer*. The commerce, which appears to hareexisted between the interior of Asia, India, and theland of the Sinae and Serica, is very remarkable.It is stated that from Thina (the capital of theSinae) fine cottons and silk were sent on font toBactra. and thence down the Ganges to Limyrica,(Peripl. p. 36.) The IVriphis speaks of a sort ofannual fair which was held within the territory ofthe Thinae, to which mnlahathron (betel) was im­ported from India. It is not easy to make outwherealtouts Thina itself was situated, and none ofthe rri'.ideni attempts at identification appear to usat all satisfactory: it is clearly, however, a northerntown, in the direction of Ladakh in Thibet, and not,as Ptolemy placed it, at Sf alarm in Tena.*$erim, or,as Vincent (Voyage- of Xearchus, vol. ii. p. 735)conjectured, at Arraoan. It is curious that silkshould be so constantly mentioned as an article ofimport from other countries, especially Serica, asthere is every reason to suppose that it was indigenousin India; the name for silk throughout the whole ofthe Indian Archipelago being the Sanscrit wordMrro. (Colebmoke, Asiat. Rf*. vol. v. p. 61.) It is impossible to give in this work nny de­tails as to the knowledge of ancient India ex­hibited in the remains of native poems or histories.The whole of this subject has been examined withgreat ability by I-A*sen in his Irulische Altertfiumjt-htnde; and to his pages, to which wc are indebtedfor mast of the Sanscrit names which we hare fromtime to time inserted, we must refer our readers.From the careful comparison which has been madeby La*M*n and other orientalist* (among whom Pottdeserves especial mention) of the Indian names pre­served by the Greek writers, a great amount ofevidence lias been adduced in favour of the generalfaithfulness of those who recorded what they saw orheard. In many instances, as may be seen by thenames we have already quoted, the Greek writershave been content with a simple adaptation of thesounds which they beard to those best suited fortheir own pronunciation. When we consider thetturbamus words which have come to Europe inHi'-nlern times as the European representations of thenames of places and peoples existing at the presenttime, wc have reason to be surprised at the accuracywith which Greek ears appreciated, and the Greeklanguage preserved, names which must have ap­peared to Greeks far more barbarous than they wouldhave seemed to the modern conquerors of the country.The attention of modern scholars has detected manywords of genuine Indian origin in a Greek dress;and an able essay by Prof. Tychsen on such wordsin the fragments of Cteaias will repay the perusal ofthose who are interested in such subjects. (SecHeeren, Asiatic Nations, vol ii. Append. 4, ed.Lond. 1846.) The generic name of the inhabitants of the wholecountry to the E. of Persia and S. of the 1/im.ilayamountains (with the exception of the Seres) was, inancient times, IifDl (Iroof), or Indians. It is truethat the appellation referred to a much wider or muchh**s extensive range of co'intry, at different periodsof history. There can, however, be no doubt, that when the ancient writers speak of the Iwn?. titermenn the inhabitants of a vast territory in the SE.part of Asia. The extension of the meaning of thename depended on the extension of the knowledj^e ofIndia, and may be traced, though less completely, inthe same manner as we have traced the gradual pro­gress of knowledge relative to the land itself. TheIndi are mentioned in more than one of the fragmentsof HecaUcus (HecaU Fragm. 17"), 178), and arestated by Aeschylus to have been a jeople in theneighbourhood of the Aethiopians, who made uw ofcamels. (Suppl, 284—287.) Herodotus is the firstancient author who may be said to give any realdescription of them; and he is led to refer to them,only because a portion of this country, which ad­joined the territory of Dareius, was included in on*of the satrapies of his vast empire, and, therefore,paid him tribute. Some part of his narrative (iii.94—106, iv. 44, vii. 65) may be doubted, as clearlyfrom hearsay evidence; some is certainly fabulous.The sum of it is, that the Indians were the m<**tpopulous and richest nation which he knew of (iii.94), and that they consisted of many different tribes,speaking different languages. Some of them, hestates, dwelt in the immediate neighbourhood of theAethiopians, and were, like them, black in colour(iii. 98, 101); some, in the marches ami desertland still further K. The manners of these tribe*,whom he calls Padaei, and Callaliae or Calantiae,were in the lowest grade of civilisation,—a wanderingrace, living on raw flesh and raw fish, and of can­nibal habits (Cf. Strnb. xv. p. 710, from whichMunnert, v. I, p. 3, infers that the Padaei were notafter all genuine Indians, but Titan.) Others (amithese were the most warlike) occupied the ntorenorthern districts in the neighbourhood of Caspatyrua(Cashmir) in the Itegio Pactyict. Herodotus placesthat part of India which was subject to Dareius inthe 20th patrapy, and Mates that the annual tributefrom it amounted to 360 talents (iii. 94). Xen«>ph"tispeaks of the Indians as a great nation, and oneworthy of alli.mce with Cvaxares and the Mcdes (i. 5.§ 3, iii. 2. § 25, vi. 2. § 1 ), though he does not njn-it'yto what part of India he refers. That, however, itwas nearly the frame as that which Herodutus de­scribes, no one can doubt. From the writers subsequent to Alexander, tl.f*following particulars relative to the people and tlirirmanners may be gathered. Tlie ancients consideredthat they were divided into M-v.n caste*:—1. 7Vir#f»,the royal counsel lorn, and nearly connected with,if notthe same as, the Bpaxf*aefi or Itrahmiiu. (Strab,xv. pp. 712—716; Arrian, Jnd. 11.) With the*«Stralm (/. c.) makes another class, whom lie callsrapfinvts. These, as Grossknrd (iii. p. 153) hassuggested, would seem, from the description of thrirhabits, to have been fakirs, or penitents, and thesame aa the GymnosophiMae so often mentioned byStrabo and Arrian. This caste was exempted frotntaxes and service in war. 2. Iftubaadmrn, whowere free from war-service. They were the rm»tnumerous of the seven caste*. (Strab. xv. p. 704 )The land itself was held to belong to the king, whofarmed it out, leaving to tin cultivator one-fourthof the produce as his share. 3. I/unttr* ami sJtep-Aerds, who lead a wandering life, their office bringto rear rattle and beasts of burden: the horse amithe elephant were held to be fur the kings *n!y.(Strab. /. c) 4. Artiaama and hanth'crnflsntm, ofall kinds. (Strab. xv. p. 707.) 5. U'nrrtW'.(Strab. L r.) 6. J'vitticttt ojfkrrs (ffofot, Mm1,