OCR Output ak. 1099.] 215 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in an extraordinary degree; for that lament­ation which the people made for him duringa long time, manifested his virtue, and theaffection which they bore him; as also didthe solemnity and concern that appearedabout his funeral, and about the completeobservance of all his funeral rites. Theyburied him in his own city Ramah;* andwept for him a very great number of days;not looking on it as a sorrow for the death ofanother man, but as that in which they wereindividually concerned. He was a righteousman, and gentle in his nature, and on thataccount he was very dear to God. Now hegoverned and presided over the people alone,after the death of Eli the high-priest,t twelveyears; andJ eighteen years together withSaul the king, and thus we have finished thehistory of Samuel. There was a man that was a Ziphite, of thecity Malum: who was rich, and had a vastnumber of cattle; for he had a dock of threethousand sheep, and another of a thousandgoats. Now David had charged his associatesto preserve these flocks from damage; and todo them no mischief; neither out of covetous-ness, nor because they were in want, nor be­cause they were in the wilderness, and socould not easily be discovered; but to esteemfreedom from injustice above all other mo­tives; and to look upon the touching of whatbelonged to another man as a horrible crime,and contrary to the will of God. Such werethe instructions he gave; thinking that thefavours he granted this man were bestowedon one that deserved to have such care takenof his affairs. This person was Nabal; aharsh man, and of a very wicked life; beinglike a cynic in the course of his behaviour; but still had obtained for his wife a woman ofgood character, wise, and handsome. To thisNabal, therefore, David sent ten of his at­tendants, at the time when he sheared hissheep; and by them saluted him, and alsowished he might do what he now did, formany years to come; but desired him to makehim a present of what he was able to givehim; since he must have learned from hisshepherds, that he had done them no injury,but had been their guardians a long time,while he continued in the wilderness, and beassured he should never repent of giving anything to David. When the messengers haddeclared their errand to Nabal, he accostedthem after an inhuman and rough manner;for he asked them who David was? And whenhe heard that he was the son of Jesse, " Nowis the time,"' said he, " that fugitives grow in­solent, and make a figure, and leave theirmasters." When they told David this, hewas wroth; and commanded four hundredarmed men to follow him, and left two hun­dred to take care of the stuff, (for he hadalready|[ six hundred,) and went againstNabal: he also swore that he would utterlydestroy the whole house and possessions ofNabal, for that he was grieved, not only thathe had proved ungrateful, without makingany return for the humanity he had shewnhim; but that he had also reproached them,and used ill language, when he had receivedno cause of disgust. Hereupon, one of those that kept the flocksof Nabal said to his mistress, "that whenDavid sent to her husband, he had receivedno civil answer, but on the contrary, very re­proachful language; while yet David hadtaken extraordinary care to keep his flocks testations in the sight of the Lord, and his anointed, andafter his death he prophesied and shewed the king hisend." Eccles. xlvi. 13. &c. But besides the things thatare recorded of this prophet in the first book of Samuel,there are some other passages concerning him in the firstbook of Chronicles: as, That he enriched the tabernaclewith several spoils which he took from the enemies ofIsrael during his administration, chap. xxvi. 28. That heassisted in regulating the distribution of the Levites, whichDavid afterwards prescribed for the service of the temple,chap. ix. 22. And, lastly, That he wrote the History ofDavid, in conjunction with the prophets Nathan and Gad:but as he was dead before David came to the throne, thiscan be meant only of the beginning of that history, whichby the other two prophets might be continued and con­cluded. There is great probability indeed, that he com­posed the twenty-four first chapters of the first book of Samuel, which contain the beginning of David's life, andseveral historical facts wherein he himself had a largeshare; but as for the latter part of it, it was impossible forhim to write it, because, in the beginning of the 2Ethchapter, there is no mention made of his death. B. * 1 Sam. nr. 1. t From an. 1128 to 1116. j From an. 1116 to 1098. II The number of men that came first to David are dis­tinctly in Josephus, and in our common copies, but 400.When he was at Keilah still but 400, both in Josephus andthe Septuagint; but 600 in our Hebrew copies. 1 Sam.xxiii. 13. See xxx. 9, 10. Now the 600 there mentioned,are here intimated by Josephus to have been so many, onljby an augmentation of 200 afterward; which I suppose jsthe true solution of this seeming disagreement.