OCR Output 884 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Eook IV. Marius lost his renown as a general and was deposed, Sullaestablished his military repute and rose to the consulship;8S the revolution of 666, which was at the same time andabove all a personal conflict between the two generals,ended with Marius' outlawry and flight. Almost withoutdesiring it, Sulla had become the most famous general ofhis time and the shield of the oligarchy. New and moreformidable crises ensued—the Mithradatic war, the Cinnanrevolution; Sulla's star continued always in the ascendant.Like the captain who seeks not to quench the flames of hisburning ship but continues to fire on the enemy, Sulla,while the revolution was raging in Italy, persevered un­shaken in Asia till the public foe was subdued. So soon ashe had done with that foe, he crushed the reign of anarchyand saved the capital from the firebrands of the desperateSamnites and revolutionists. The moment of his returnhome was for Sulla an overpowering one in joy and in pain:he himself relates in his memoirs that during his first nightin Rome he had not been able to close an eye, and we maywell believe it. But still his task was not at an end; hisstar was destined to rise still higher. Absolute autocrat aswas ever any king, and yet constantly bent on abiding bythe ground of formal right, he bridled the ultra-reactionaryparty, annihilated the Gracchan constitution which hadfor forty years restrained the oligarchy, and compelled firstthe. powers of the capitalists and of the urban proletariatewhich had entered into rivalry with the oligarchy, and ulti­mately the arrogance of the sword which had grown up inthe bosom of his own staff, to yield once more to the lawwhich he fortified afresh. He established the oligarchy on amore independent footing than ever, placed the magisterialpower as a ministering instrument in its hands, committedto it the legislation, the courts, the supreme military andfinancial power, and furnished it with a sort of body-guardin the liberated slaves and with a sort of army in the settledmilitary colonists. Lastly, when the work was finished, thecreator gave way to his own creation; the absolute autocratbecame voluntarily once more a simple senator. In all thislong military and political career Sulla never lost a battle,was never compelled to retrace a single step, and, ledastray neither by friends nor by foes, brought his work to thegoal which he had himself proposed. He had reason, indeed,to thank his star. The capricious goddess of fortune seemed S