OCR Output 62 THE DECLINE AND FALL Resigns his Before an assembly thus modelled and prepared, Augustus pro~ usurped 't , ..... . . power. nounced a studied oration, which displayed his patriotism, and disguised his ambition. "He lamented, yet excused, his past "conduct. Filial piety had required at his hands the revenge of "his father's murder; the humanity of his own nature had some- M times given way to the stern laws of necessity, and to a forcetl "connexion with two unworthy colleagues; as long as Antony "lived, the republic forbade him to abandon her to a degenerate "Roman, and a barbarian queen. He was now at liberty to "satisfy his duty and his inclination. He solemnly restored the "senate and people to all their ancient rights; and wished only to "mingle with the crowd of his fellow-citizens, and to share the "blessings which he had obtained for his country is prerailed It would require the pen of Tacitus, (if Tacitus had assisted at samt h under tms &^m^y) to describe the various emotions of the senate; those the title of were sUppressed, and those that were affected. It was danger- emperor or rr gerfeitf. ous to trust the sincerity of Augustus; to seem to distrust it, was stillmore dangerous. The respective advantages of monarchy and arepublic have often divided speculative inquirers; the present great­ness of the Roman state, the corruption of manners, and the licenceof the soldiers, added new weight to the advocates- of monarchy jand these general views of government were again warped by thehopes and fears of each individual. Amidst this confusion of sen­timents, the answer of the senate was unanimous and decisive.They refused to accept the resignation of Augustus; they conjuredhim not to desert the republic, which he had saved. After a de­cent resistance, the crafty tyrant submitted to the orders of thesenate; and consented to receive the government of the provinces,and the general command of the Roman armies, under the wellknown names of Proconsul and ImpErator5. But he would!receive them only for ten years. Even before the expiration of a that