OCR Output 470 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. tiresome exactness of a notary, and treat their great subjectthroughout with the dulness which necessarily results fromthe elimination at once of all poetical and all historical ele­ments. When we read, for instance, in Piso that Romulusavoided indulging in his cups when he had a sitting of thesenate next day; or that Tarpeia betrayed the Capitol tothe Sabines out of patriotism, with a view to deprive theenemy of their shields; we cannot be surprised at the judg­ment of intelligent contemporaries as to all this sort ofscribbling, "that it was not writing history, but tellingstories to children." Of far greater excellence were isolatedworks on the history of the recent past and of the present,particularly the history of the Hannibalic war by Lucius121. Caelius Antipater (about 633) and the history of his owntime by Publius Sempronius Asellio, who was a little younger.These exhibited at least valuable materials and an earnestspirit of truth, in the case of Antipater also a vigorous,although somewhat homely, style of narrative; yet, judging• from all testimonies and fragments, none of these bookscame up either in pithy form or in originality to the"Origines " of Cato, who unhappily created as little of aschool in the field of history as in that of politics.Memoirs The subordinate, more individual and ephemeral, species and of historical literature—memoirs, letters, and speeches,— speecie?. were strongly represented also, at least as respects quan­tity. The first statesmen of Rome already recorded inperson their experiences: such as Marcus Scaurus (consul115. 105. in 639), Publius Rufus (consul in 649), Quintus Catulus102- (consul in 652), and even the regent Sulla; but none of theseproductions seem to have been of importance for literatureotherwise than by the substance of their contents. Thecollection of letters of Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi,was remarkable partly for the classical purity of the lan­guage and the high spirit of the writer, partly as the firstcorrespondence published in Rome, and as the first literaryproduction of a Roman lady. The literature of speechespreserved at this period the stamp impressed on it by Cato;advocates' pleadings were not yet looked on as literaryproductions, and such speeches as were published werepolitical pamphlets. During the revolutionary commotionsthis pamphlet-literature increased in extent and importance,and among the mass of ephemeral productions there weresome which, like the Philippics of Demosthenes and the