OCR Output 266 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. own homes. Adonijah also, as afraid of theking for what he had done, became a sup­plicant to God, and took hold of the horns ofthe altar, which were prominent.* It wasalso told Solomon, that he had so done; andthat he desired to receive assurances fromhim, that he would not remember the injuryhe had done: and not inflict any severepunishment for it. Solomon answered verymildly and prudently, that he forgave himthis his offence; but said withal, that if hewere found in any attempt for new innova­tions, he would be the author of his ownEunishment. So he sent to him, and raisedim up from the place of his supplication.And when he was come to the king, and hadworshipped him; the king bade him go awayto his own house, and have no suspicion ofany harm, and desired him to shew himself aworthy man, as what would tend to his ownadvantage. But David being desirous of ordaining hisson king of all the people, called togethertheir rulers to Jerusalem, with the priestsand the Levites. And having first numberedthe Levites, he found them to be thirty-eightthousand, from thirty years old to fifty. Outof which he appointed twenty-three thousandto take care of the building of the temple;and out of the same, six thousand to be judgesof the people and scribes; four thousand forporters to the house of God, and as manyfor singers, to sing to the instruments whichDavid had prepared. He divided them alsointo courses; and when he had separated thepriests from them, he found of these prieststwenty-four courses; sixteen of the house ofEleazar, and eight of that of Ithamar; andhe ordained that one course should minister to God eight days, from sabbath to sabbath.And thus were the courses distributed by lot,in the presence of David, and Zadok, andAbiathar, the high-priests, and of all therulers. And that course which came up firstwas written down as the first; and accordinglythe second, and so on to the twenty-fourth.And this partition hath remained to this day.He also made twenty-four parts of the tribeof Levi, and when they cast lots, they cameup in the same manner for their courses ofeight days. He also honoured the posterityof Moses, and made them the keepers of thetreasures of God, and of the donations whichthe kings dedicated. He also ordained, thatall the tribe of Levi, as well as the priests,should serve God night and day, as Moseshad enjoined them. After this he divided the army into twelveparts, with their leaders, and captains of hun­dreds and commanders. Now every part hadtwenty-four thousand: which were ordered towait on Solomon, by thirty days at a time,from the first day till the last, with the cap­tains of thousands, and captains of hundreds.He also set rulers over every part, such as heknew to be good and righteous men. He setothers also to take care of the treasures, audof the villages, and of the fields, and of thebeasts. When David had ordered all theseoffices after the manner before mentioned, hecalled the rulers of the Hebrews, and theirheads of tribes, and the officers over the seve­ral divisions, and those that were appointedover every work, and every possession; and,standing upon a high pulpit, he said to themultitude: "My brethren, and my people, Iwould have you know, that I intended to builda house for God; and prepared a large quan­ * There is no precept in the law to make the altara privileged place: but, in conformity to the customsof other nations, the Jews seem to have done it. Othernations had certainly this custom, as appears from thatpassage in Virgil: Talibus orabat dictis, arasque tenebat. JEneid. 6. And it seems not unlikely, that as the people, when theycame into the land of Canaan, had cities appointed byGod, whereunto the manslayer might fly; so while theycontinued in the wilderness, the camp of the Levitesmight serve for the same purpose. Nay, from the wordsin Exodus xxi. 14. where God orders the wilful murdererto be taken from his altar, that he may die, it seems un­questionably true, that, even in the land of Canaan, theaitar continued a sanctuary for those who fled unto it; but then the question is, to what altar Adonijah fled 1 Whe­ther to the brazen one, which Moses made, and whichwas now at Gibeon, or that which his father had latelyerected in the threshing-floor of Araunah? It is expresslysaid, 1 Kings i. 50. that he caught hold of the horns ofthe altar; but we can hardly suppose, say some, that thealtar in the threshing-floor, which was run up in suchhaste with stones and turf, was made in that figure. Butwhat should hinder us from supposing, that as David hadbuilt a place for the reception of the ark of the covenanton Mount Sion, he had likewise built there an altar for theoblation of the daily sacrifices, in the exact form of theoriginal one that was then at Gibeon, and that it was tothis altar, and neither of the others, that Adonijah betookhimself for refuge. Le Gere's, Patrick's, and Calmet'sCommentaries. 6.