OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 83 had thrown themselves into Nisaea ; and that the Megareanshad effected this revolt by a junction of Corinthians and Sicy-onians and Epidaurians." Upon hearing this, Pericles re-embarked with the utmost expedition, and brought back hisarmy from Euboea. And soon after, the Peloponnesians march­ing into Attica as far as Eleusis and Thria, laid the countrywaste, under the command of Pleistionax* the son of Pausa-nias king of Sparta: And then, without extending the ravageany farther, they withdrew to their own homes. Now againthe Athenians transported a military force into Euboea, underthe command of Pericles, and soon completed its reduction.The tranquillity of the rest of the island was re-establishedupon certain conditions ; but they wholly ejected all the inha­bitants of Hestiaea, and repeopled it with a colony of their own.—And not long after their return from Euboea, they concludeda peace for thirty years with the Lacedaemonians and their al­lies, in pursuance of which they restored them Nisaea and Chal-cis, and Pegae and Traezene; all which places, though belongingto the Peloponnesians, were in the hands of the Athenians.In the sixth year of this peacef a war broke out between rise to that decree which excluded the Megareans from the ports and mar­kets of Athens. Others add, that they slew an Athenian herald, who wassent to expostulate with them on this account. Could such outrages bepocketed by Athenians ? Could Pericles dissuade the people of Athensfrom shewing resentment ? They decreed farther, though not explicitlymentioned by Thucydides, that the generals of the state should swear, at theirelection, to make an incursion twice a year into the Megaris. We shallsoon see that the Peloponnesians made it a pretext for the ensuing war, andthat Pericles justified the decree, and persuaded the Athenians to hazarda war rather than repeal it. This is the true history of the point, thoughcomedy and raillery and libelling, strangely vary tho account. • As Pleistionax on this occasion evacuated Attica on a sudden, he wasbanished from Sparta, as having been bribed by the Athenians to quit theirterritory. Diodorus Siculus relates, that he did it by the advice of Clean-dridas his guardian, who attended him in the field on account of his youth ;and that Pericles afterwards passing his accounts at Athens, charged " tentalents properly laid out for the service of the state," which passed withoutfarther explanation or exception. t Pericles here performed a great and signal service to his country. Themotives to this war are, according to our historian, sufficiently strong, upon