OCR Output 516 PALAERUS. PALAESTINA. rALAEKUS (UaKaifxis: Eth. UaXaiptus), atown on tlie W. eo:ist of Aearnania, on the Ioniansea, which is placed by Strabo between Lcucjis andAly/.ia. Its exact site is unknown. Leake placesit in the valley of Livddhi In the first year of thePelupon.ne.sian War (u. c. 431) Palacrus was in al­liance with the Athenians; and when the latterpeople took the neighbouring town of Sol hum,which was a Corinthian colony, they cave both itami its territory to the inhabitants of Palaerus.(Time, ii. :ti>; Strab. x. pp. 450, 459.) PALAKSCEPSIS. 1 Scepsis.] PALAES1MUNDUM ( Plin. vi. 22. s. 24), a greattown in the ancient Taprobane (Ceylon), an accountof which was tiven to the Romans by Annius Plo-camus, who spent six mouths there during the reignof the emperor Claudius. According to him, it wassituated on a river of the same name, which, flowingfrom a great internal lake, entered the sea by threemouths. It is probable that it is represented by thepresent Triricumalce, in the neighbourhood of whichan- the remains of enormous ancient works for theregulation of the course of the river—now called the iMahtti-i lla-Ganya. (Brooke, Geogr. Joum. vol,iii. [i 223.) The name occurs under the form 1Palaesimundu in the Periplus Mar. Erythr., and inMarxian's PerijU. Maris Extort as the name of theisland itself. Thus the hr.it S]>eaks of vrjjos \(-yopitvT) YlaKauripovSbov, but anciently Taprobane(c. 61, ed. Mulb-r); and the second states that the ,island of Tnpri'bane was formerly culled Palaesi­mundu, but is now called Salice (c. 35. ed. Muller).Ptolemy, and Stephaiius, who follows him, state thatthe island IlaAcu fitv tKaAtiro "XindvfXav, rvv 5*SaAiKTj (vii. 4. § 1). It is very probable, however, 1that this is in both cases to be considered as anerroneous reading, and that the true name wasPalaesiinundum. Lassen considers that it is de­rived from the Sanscrit words Pali SimanUi, theHead of the Holy haw. (Uusert. de Insula Tapro- Ibanc, p. 14.) [V.] PALAESTE, a town upon the coast of Chaonia [in Epeirus, at the southern foot of the Acroccraunianpeak, where Caesar lauded from Brundusium, inorder to carry on the war against Pompey in Illyria.(I,m an, Phars. v. 460.) In this vicinity there is amodern village, called Palma; and-there can there- [fore be little doubt that I.uenn has preserved tlie realname of the place where Caesar landed, and that |there is a mistake in the MSS. of Caesar, where thename is written Pbarsalus. (Caes. Ii. C. iii. 6;com p. Leake, Sortkem Grrtce, vol. i. p. 5.) PALAESTI'XA (naA.oK7TiVrj : Eth, riaAai-trrtvAs), the most commonly received and classicalname tor the country, otherwise called the Land ofCanaan, Judaea, the Holy Land, &c. This namehas the authority of the prophet Isaiah, among thesacred writers; and was received by the earliestsecular historians. Herodotus calls the HebrewsSyrians of Palestine; and states that the sea-borderof Syria, inhabited, according to him. by Phoenicians'from the lied Sea, was called Palaestina, as far aslv-'vpt (vii. 89). He elsewhere places Syria Palaes-tina between Phoerdce and Egypt; Tyre and Sidonin Phoenice; Ascalon,Cadytis, Ienystis in PalaestinaSvriae; elsewhere Ih' plat es Cadytis and Azotussiinplv in Svria (iv. 39, iii. 5, ii. 116, 157, i. 105, Hi. 4 Hie name, as derived from the old inhabitants ofthe land, originally describe only the sea-borderMouth of Mount Carmel, occupied by the Philistines from the very earliest peril*!, and during tbe tin* othe Israelite kingdom {Exod. xiii. 17); altboae.nlwould appear tliat this district was patul!y -»rapied by the cognate branches of the C&uaWUi{Gen. x. 14, 19.) It afterwards came to be twd<the inland parts likewise, and that not only * tfcwest of the Jordan, but also to the fist, as fr ithe limits of the children of Israel; and in tawider acceptation it will lie convenient here to ^it: although it deserves to be noted that even ic isas Joseph us the name Palaestina was oocaoi'.ciiused in its more restricted and projer s*^*-. nof that part of the coast inhabited of old try tiPhilistines. (See the passages referred to id Erinp. 41, who devotes the nine first chapter! U 1work to the named of Palestine, pp. 1—51.) I. General Boindariks, Soil, Cumvtl The general boundaries of Palestine, is this*™acceptation of the name, are clearly definM hj iMediterranean on the vest, and the great fl*wnow called the Ifauran, on the east. [H-irx*!The country, however, on the cast of Jordan inot originally designed to form part of the iaadIsrael; which was to have been bounded by:Jordan and its inland lakes, (Xutnb. im.10—12; comp. xxxii.) The northern and »era boundaries are not so clearly defined; but dprobable that a more careful inTestigalionmore accurate survey of the count/7 tLmhitherto been attempted might lead to the rr^of many of the sites mentioned in the sacre4 i-«and of natural divisions which might help welucidation of the geography of Palestine. UBsouth, indeed, recent investigations hare led V*discovery of a well-defined mountain harrier. fVaa natural wall along the south of Palestine. fr<Dsouthern bay of the Dead Sea to the Meuiterrasalong the line of which, at intervals, may be fitraces of the names mentioned in the borders bbooks of Moses and Joshua, terminating on tSewith the river of Egypt ( Wady-tl-A risk ) ±1 B'rnra. (Numb, xxxiv, 3—5; comp. J' - -■. xt. 1-Williams, Hvly City, vol. i., appendix i., ix-te 1. f—46S.) (>n the northern border the irieatiMount Hor is perplexing; the point 00 the cm"the great sea" is not fix'-d; n<>r are the hiHamath or Zedad determined. (A'—ia. xxxjt.comp. Eiek. xlvii. 15, 16.) But wltatever momay l>e given of the name H«»r in the o«Ixirders of Palestine, the mention of Hcnum anorthern extremity of the Lcraelitoa' con^tnDeuteronomy (iii. 9, v. 48) would potat wrather than to Lebanon, which Rekand cr»ev«as the mountain in question: while the ra-lSidon is assigned to the tr.be of A^her {J* «21) would prove that the }^iint on the <--be fixed north of thai border town of th* Cutat{Gen. x. 19; Ja*h. xix. 28.) The pre»nt Mnear to Ihmut (Kim'sa), is much tio far r> 1fall in with the boundary of Palestine, ar>d »:be concede"! that we have not at present mmidata to enable us to determine its nortber?!(Reland, lib. i. cap. 25, pp. 113—123.) To Imust be added that the limits of I*alestixr-eat different periodi of its historr, at.d *c.-s~the views of ditl'ereut writers (ih. cap. 2?*, %—127"), and that the common error ol" cr*rfi.4the limits of the possessions of the LsneJc«those assigned to their conquests hai *tj_",:embarrassed the question. Assuming, i.