OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 77 t)ves of the strongest and most populous of nations, the invincible, the irresistibleAvare. We are willing to devote ourselves to your service: we are able to van­quish and destroy all the enemies who now disturb your repose. But we expect,as the price of our alliance, as the reward of our valour, precious gifts, annual sub'sidies, and fruitful possessions." At the time of this embassy, Justinian hadreigned above thirty, he had lived above seventy-five years; his mind as well ashis body, was feeble and languid; and the conqueror of Africa and Italy, carelessof the permanent interests ot his people, aspired only to end his days in the bosomeven of inglorious peace. In a studied oration, he imparted to the senate his reso­lution to dissemble the insult, and to purchase the friendship, of the Avars; andthe whole senate, like the mandarins of China, applauded the incomparable wis­dom and foresight of their sovereign. The instruments of luxury were immedi­ately prepared to captivate the barbarians: silken garments, soft and splendid beds,and chains and collars incrusted with gold. The ambassadors, content with sucha liberal reception, departed from Constantinople, and Valentin, one of the empe­ror's guards, was sent with a similar character to their camp at the foot of mountCaucasus. As their destruction or their success must be alike advantageous to theempire, he persuaded them to invade the enemies of Rome; and they were easilytempted, by gifts and promises, to gratify their ruling inclinations. These fugi­tives, who fled before the Turkish arms, passed the Tanais and Borysthenes, andboldly advanced into the heart of Poland and Germany, violating the law of na­tions, and abusing the rights of victory. Before ten years had elapsed, their campswere seated on the Danube and the Elbe, many Bulgarian and Sclavonian nameswere obliterated from the earth, and the remainder of their tribes are found, as tri­butaries and vassals, under the standard of the Avars. The chagan, the peculiartitle of their king, still affected to cultivate the friendship of the emperor; and Jus­tinian ■entertained some thoughts of fixing them in Pannonia, to balance the pre­vailing power of the Lombards. But the virtue or treachery of an Avar betrayedthe secret enmity and ambitious designs of their countrymen: and they loudly com­plained of the timid, though jealous policy, of detaining their ambassadors, anddenying the arms which they had been allowed to purchase in the capital ofthe empire.(l) Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions of the emperors, may be ascri­bed to the embassy which was received from the conquerors of the Avars. (2) Theimmense distance, which eluded their arms, could not extinguish their resentment:the Turkish ambassadors pursued the footsteps of the vanquished to the Jaik, theVolga, mount Caucasus, the Euxine, and Constantinople, and at length appearedbefore the successor of Constantine, to request that he would not espouse thecause of rebels and fugitives. Even commerce had some share in this remarkablenegotiation: and the Sogdoites, who were now the tributaries of the Turks, em­braced the fair occasion of opening, by the north of the Caspian, a new road forthe importation of Chinese silk into the Roman empire. The Persian, who pre­ferred the navigation of Ceylon, had stopped the caravans of Bochara and Samar-cand: their silk was contemptuously burnt: some Turkish ambassadors died inPersia, with a suspicion of poison; and the great khan permitted his faithful vas­sal Maniach, the prince of the Sogdoites, to propose, at the Byzantine court, atreaty of alliance against their common enemies. Their splendid apparel and richpresents, the fruit of oriental luxury, distinguished Maniach and his colleaguesfrom the rude savages of the north: their letters, in the Scythian character andlanguage, announced a people who had attained the rudiments of science;(3) theyenumerated the conquests, they offered the friendship and military aid of theTurks; and their sincerity was attested by direful imprecations (if they were guil-tv of falsehood) against their own head, and the head of Disabul their master.The Greek prince entertained with hospitable regard the ambassadors of a remoteand powerful monarch: the sight of silkworms and looms disappointed the hopes (1) The embassies and first conquests of the Avars may be read in Menander (Excerpt. l>gat. p. 99—10!.154, 155..) Theophanes (p. 156.,) the Historia Miscella(lib. xvi.p. 109.,) and Gregory of Tours (lib. iv. c. 23.29.^in the Historians of France, torn. ii. p. 314.217.) (2) Theophanes (Chvon. p. 204.) and the Hist. Miscella (lib. xvi. p. 110..) as understood by De Guignet (com.s. part 2. p. 354..) appear to speak of a Turkish embassy to Justinian himself; but that of Maniach* in thefourth year of his successor Justin, is positively the first that reached Constantinople (Menander, p. 108.) (3) The Russians have found characters, rude hieroglyphics, on the Irtish and Yeniser, on medals, tombs,idols, rocks, obelisks. &c. (Slrahlenberg, Hist, of Siberia, p. 324. 348. 428,429.) Dr. Hyde (de Religione Vete-rum Persarum, p. 521, See.) has given two alphabets of Thibet and of the Eygours. I have long harbonreda suspicion that atftlie Scythian, and tome, perhaps much, of the Indian science, was derived from fiie Greeksof Bactriana.