OCR Output 222 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. was in from them, and made haste into the city [Jerusalem,] asrelying on the good-will of the multitude, because of the bene­fits they had received from his father, and because of the ha­tred the same multitude bare to Ptolemy; so that when Ptolemywas endeavouring to enter the city by another gate, they drovehim away, as having already admitted of Hyrcanus. CHAP. VIII. Hyrcanus receives the high priesthood, and ejects Ptolemy out ofthe country. Antiochus makes war against Hyrcanus, and af­terwards makes a league with him. § 1. So Ptolemy retired to one of the fortresses that wasabove Jericho, which was called Dagon: but Hyrcanus havingtaken the priesthood that had been his father's before, and inthe first place propitiated God by sacrifices, he then madean expedition against Ptolenyy; and when he made his. at­tacks upon the place, in other points he was too hard for. him,but was rendered weaker than he, by the commiseration he hadfor his mother and brethren, and by that only, for Ptolemybrought them upon the wall, and tormented them in the sightof all, and threatened that he would throw them down headlong,unless Hyrcanus would leave off the siege. And as he thought,that so far as he relaxed as to the siege and taking of the place,so much favour did he show to those that were dearest to him bypreventing their misery, his zeal about it was cooled. How­ever, his mother spread out her hands, and begged of him thathe would not grow remiss on her account, but indulge his in­dignation so much the more, and that he would do his utmost totake the place quickly, in order to get their enemy under hispower, and then to avenge upon him what he had done to thesethat were dearest to himself; for that death would be to hersweet, though with torment, if that enemy of theirs might butbe brought to punishment for his wicked dealings to them.Now, when his mother said so, he resolved to take the fortressimmediately; but when he saw her beaten, and torn to pieces,his courage failed him, and he could not but sympathize withwhat his mother suffered, and was thereby overcome. And asthe siege was drawn out into length by this means, that yearon which the Jews use to rest came on, for the Jews observe thisrest every seventh year, as they do every seventh day; so that »nd to be now utterly lost. See Sixtus Senensis* account of it, of its manyHebraisms, and its great agreement with Josephus' abridgment, in the Authem.Rec. part. I. 2O6, 207, 208.