OCR Output CHAP; XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 187 overthrown and slain1 by a wild bull,1" as he hunted in theBelgic or German forests. As soon as Belisarius was delivered from his foreignand domestic enemies, he seriously applied his forces tothe final reduction of Italy. In the siege of Osimo, the Belisari«»general was nearly transpierced with an arrOW, if the Ravenna,mortal stroke had not been intercepted by one of hisguards, who lost, in that pious office, the use of his hand.The Goths of Osimo, four thousand warriors, with thoseof Fsesulze and the Cottian Alps, were among the lastwho maintained their independance; and their gallantresistance, which almost tired the patience, deservedthe esteem of the conqueror. His prudence refused tosubscribe the safe conduct which they asked, to jointheir brethren of Ravenna; but they saved, by an ho­nourable capitulation, one moiety at least of their wealth,with the free alternative of retiring peaceably to theirestates, or enlisting to serve the emperor in his Persianwars. The multitudes, which yet adhered to the standardof Vitiges, far surpassed the number of the Romantroops; but neither prayers, nor defiance, nor the ex­treme danger of his most faithful subjects, could temptthe Gothic king beyond the fortifications of Ravenna.These fortifications were, indeed, impregnable to the as­saults of art or violence; and when Belisarius investedthe capital, he was soon convinced that famine onlycould tame the stubborn spirit of the barbarians. The sea,the land, and the channels of the Po, were guarded by thevigilanceof the Roman general; and his morality extendedthe rights of war to the practice of poisoning the waters," 1 The king pointed his spear—the bull overturned a tree on his head—he expiredthe same day. Such is the story of Agathias J bnt the original historians of France(torn. 2. p. 202. 403. 558. 667.) impute his death to a fever. m Without losing myself in a labyrinth of species and names—the aurochs, urns,bisons, bubalus, bonasus, buffalo, &c. (Buffon, Hist. Nat. torn. 11. and Supplement,lora. 3. 6.) it is certain, that in the sixth century a large wild species of horned cattlewas hunted in the great forests of the Vosges in Lorraine, and the Ardennes. (Greg.Turon. torn. 2. lib. 10. c. 10. p. 369.) n In the siege of Auximum, he first laboured to demolish an old aqueduct, andthen cast into the stream, I. dead bodies: 2. mischievous herbs: and, 3. quick lime,which is named (says Procopius, lib. 2. c. 29.) titcvoc by the ancients; by the rao- o 2