OCR Output 852 ROMA. ROMA. catalogue baa come down to us in various shapes.One of the simplest ami most genuine seems to betlmt entitled Cwriosum Urbis Romae RegumstmXI111. cum Brtviariis miff, the MS. of which is in theVatican. Some of the other MSS. of the Notittaseem to have been interpolated. The spelling andgrammar betray a late and barbarous age; but it isimpossible that the work can have been composedat the time when the MS. was written. Besides these there are two catalogues of the so-ralleil Hkgionarii, Pi bi.ii s Vktoic, and SkxtusIII IF US, which till a very recent period were regardedas genuine, and funned the chief basis of the worksof the Italian topographers. Il is now, however,universally allowed that they are compilations of avery late date, and that even the names of tiiewriters of them are forgeries. It would be tot) lungto enter hi this place into the reasons which haveled to this conclusion: and those readers who aredesirous of more information will find a full andclear statement of the matter in a paper of Mr. Bun-bury's in the Classical Museum (vol. iii. p. 373,seq.). The only other authorities on Roman topographythat can be called original are a few notices bytravellers and others in the middle ages. One ofthe principal of these is a collection of inscriptions,and of routes to the chief churches in Home, dis­covered by Mabillon in the monastery of Kinsiedlen,whence the author is commonly cited as the A.\o-nymus Eiksikdlensis. The work appears tobelong to the age of Charlemagne, and is at allevents older than the Leonine city, or the middle ofthe 9th century. It was published in the 4th vol.of Mabi)Ion's Analevta; but since more correctly,according to the arrangement of Gustav Haenel,in the Archie fur Philologie uad P&dagogi*\vol. v. p. 115, seq. In the Routes the principalobjects on the right and left are mentioned, thoughoften lying at a considerable distance. The treatise called the MlKABlLIA RoMAE, pre­fixed to the Ckronicon Romualdi Sofernitnni in aMS. preserved in the Vatican, and belonging ap­parently to the 12th century, seems to have beentho first Attempt at a regular description of ancientRome. It was compiled from statistical notices,narratives in the Acta Marti/rum, and popularlegends. It appears, with variations, in the LiberCensunm of Ccneius, and in many subsequent ma­nuscripts, and was printed as early as the 16tfacentury. It will be found in MontfaUCOO, Diari'nmftttf. p. 283, seq., and in Nibby's Ejfemeridi F.*t-terarie, Rome, 1820. with notes. A work ascribedto Maktini s POLONUS, belonging probably to thelatter part of the 13th century, seems to have beenchiefly founded on the Mirabilia. Accounts ofsome of the gates of Rome will be found in WilliamOP Malmesuuky's work De (iestis Regum An-glorum (book iv.). The Florentine Pocgio, who flourished in the15th century, paid great attention to Roman an­tiquities. His description of Rome, as it existed inhis time, is a mere sketch, but elegant, scholar-like,and touching. It is contained in the first book ofhis Work entitled Dc 1 tirii Uite Fortunae I'rbisRamM. and will be found in Sallengre, Nov. The-sour. Ant. Rom. vol. i. p. 501. A separate editionof his work was also published in Paris, 1723.His predecessor, Petrarch, has given a few par­ticulars respecting the state of the city in his time;but he treats the subject in an uncritical manner. The traveller Kyriaci's, called from bis taWftown Anconitanus, *ho accom named tbt msssttSigismund, passed a few days in Bene darn* datime that Poggio was also there, which bfcollecting inscriptions, and noting down km a*marks. His work, entitled A'yrwei Ji^fMBsaJtincmrium. was published st Floreivce is 17*t ^ Such arc the chief original sources <* StfHtojMigraphy. The literature of the ?utjectb &ttt^autly copious, but our space will permit ilittle more than present the reader with s fottftfprincipal works. The first regular trratw astlantiquities of R"ine was tlmt ol Bioudo Flati* (1dus Klaviu>) (138S—1463). who «a» st mman of bu&incss and a man si letters. H*» ientitled lioma Instanratn. a ^igai-t'n <<\ 1Utopography, was published by Kroben a! I1513, fol. An Italian translation by LueWfiahut imperfect, appeared at Venice in T*the end of the 15th century. Julius PwfLaetus fonnded the Koman Academy. La r»an enthusiastic collector of inscriptions, but IjmB^nos for them was such that he sometimes iwhat he failed in discovering, and he ihaving forged the inscription t" the sUdian found in the f<>rum of Trajan. (TiStoria aella Lett. vol. ii. lib. iv.) Ha b«*Romauae Urbis vetusUste, is uncritical, and rfvalue. Janus Parrhasius had a little [jttpublished the p>eudo-Victor. To the same ]belong the De VrbeRoma Collectanea rftatKabricius Varranus, a compilation chiidyfrom Biondo, ami published, like the work cfin the collection of Mazocihi, Rome, 151J.Bernardo Buecellai, a friend of Lorenzo dt*commenced a description of Rome, by way**nieiitury on the s«-calU*d Victor. Il wascompleted, and the M.S., which U of covalue, was first printed among the"Scriptores," in an Appendix to Murattsistion (vul. ii. p. 755). The next work that we need men'ion is tfcaflqmtatcs I'rbis Romae of Andreas Fulwas, M1527, fol. Bresc. 1545, 8vo. This prwhaetijgreat step in advance. Kulvius prxarat Jllaphael a sketch of the 14 Kegkns.the restoration of them by himself, batseem to have been preserved. In 1534nese knight Baitholomaens Marlianus f*I'rbis Romae Topographia, a work m mmaTstill unsurpassed. An augmented and cari|proved edition was published in 1544: bat1588 is a mere reprint of the first. It vflfound in the Thesauru* of Graevins, rtlsi.liano was the first to illustrate bi» work wttand drawings, though they are not of a vettrior kind. Lucio Fauno's belie A nticiuSsCitta di Roma appeared at Venice in 1^44. ktains a few facts which had been oreriookai.'predecessors. The celebrated hermitrutins of Verona, published at VeniceOttnmentarium Rcipvblica* Romafirst book, entitled Antiyuae I'rbis /noyo,the topographical part, is written with muchand acuteness. It was intended merely as ato a complete description ofBeg ions of Augustus, but the earlyvinius preventeil the execution \£ thwork is contained in the culle<ctiaovol. iii. It was Panvinios whotus Kufus, uud he also