OCR Output 10-1 THE DECLINE AND FALL of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and people were restored to their country; themeans of subsistence were liberally provided; and Totila, in the robe of peace,exhibited the equestrian games of the circus. Whilst he amused the eyes of themultitude, four hundred vessels were prepared for the embarkation of his troops.The cities of Rhegium and Tarentum were reduced: he passed into Sicily, the ob­ject of his implacable resentment, and the island was stripped of its gold and sil­ver, of the fruits of the earth, and of an infinite number of horses, sheep, andoxen. Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the fortune of Italy; and the sea-coast ofGreece was visited by a fleet of three hundred galleys. (1) The Goths werelanded in Corcyra and the ancient continent of Epirus; they advanced as far asNicopolis, the trophy of Augustus, and Dodona,(2) once favoured by the oracleof Jove. In every step of his victories the wise barbarian repeated to Justinianhis desire of peace, applauded the concord of their predecessors, and offered toemploy the Gothic arms in the service of the empire. Justinian was deaf to the voice of peace; but he neglected the prosecution of war;and the indolence of his temper disappointed, in some degree, the obstinacy of hispassions. From this salutary slumber the emperor was awakened by the popeVigilius and the patrician Cethegus, who appeared before his throne, and adjuredhim, in the name of God and the people, to resume the conquest and deliveranceof Italy. In the choice of the generals, caprice as well as judgment was shown.A fleet and army sailed for the relief of Sicily under the conduct of Liberius; buthis youth and want of experience were afterwards discovered, and before hetouched the shores of the island, he was overtaken by his successor. In the placeof Liberius, the conspirator Artaban was raised from a prison to military honours;in the pious presumption, that gratitude would animate his valour and fortify hisallegiance. Belisarius reposed in the shade of his laurels, but the commandof the principal army was reserved for Germanus,(3) the emperor's nephew,whose rank and merit had been long depressed by the jealousy of the court.Theodora had injured him in the rights of a private citizen, the marriage of hischildren, and the testament of his brother; and although his conduct was pureand blameless, Justinian was displeased that he should be thought worthy of theconfidence of the malecontents. The life of Germanus was alesson of implicit obe­dience ; he nobly refused to prostitute his name and character in the factions of thecircus: the gravity of his manners was tempered by innocent cheerfulness; and hisriches were lent without interest to indigent or deserving friends. His valourhad formerly triumphed over the Sclavonians of the Danube and the rebels of Af­rica: the first report of his promotion revived the hopes of the Italians: and he wasprivately assured, that a crowd of Roman deserters would abandon, on his ap­proach, the standard of Totila. His second marriage with Malasontha, the grand-daughter of Theodoric, en­deared Germanus to the Goths themselves; and they marched with reluctanceagainst the father of a royal infant, the last offspring of the line of Amali.(4) Asplendid allowance was assigned by the emperor: the general contributed his pri­vate fortune; his two sons were popular and active; and he surpassed in the promp­titude and success of his levies, the expectation of mankind. He was permittedto select some squadrons of Thracian cavalry: the veterans as well as the youth ofConstantinople and Europe, engaged their voluntary service; and as far as theheart of Germany, his fame and liberality attracted the aid of the barbarians.The Romans advanced to Sardica; an army of Sclavonians fled before their march;but within two days of their final departure, the designs of Germanus were termi­nated by his malady and death. Yet the impulse which he had given to the Ita­lian war still continued to act with energy and efl'ect. The maritime towns, An- dini, Roma Antica, lib. Til. c. 9. p. 466. Donatui, Roma Antique, lib. it. c. 13. p. 334. But all antiquity is ig­norant of this relic. (1) In these seas, Proeopius searched without success for the isle of Calypso. He was shown at Phasacia orCorcyra. the petrified ship of Ulysses; (OiItm. xiii. 163..) but he found it a recent fabric of many stones, de­dicated by a merchant to Jupiter Cassiut, (lib. ir. c. 22.) Eustathius had supposed it to be the fanciful likenessof a rock. (2) M. d'Anville (Memoirei de l'Acad. torn, xxxii. p. 513—528. illustrates the gulf of Ambracia; but hecannot ascertain the situation of Dodona. A country in sight of Italy is less known than the wilds ofAmerica. (3) See the acts of Germanus in the public (Vandal, lib. ii. c. 1(1—18. Goth. lib. iii. c. 31, 32.) and privatehistory (Anecdot. c. v..) and those of his son Justin, in Agathias (lib. ir. c. 130,131.) Kotwitbstanding anambiguous expression of Jornandes, fratri suo, Alemannus nas proved that he was the son of the emperor'sbrother. (4) Confuncta Aniciorura gens cum Amala stirpe spem adhnc utriutque generis promittit, (Jornandes, c. bt.p. 703. He wrote at Ravenna before the death of Totila,