OCR Output A. D. 16.] OF TACITUS. 75 taxias, the son of that unfortunate prince, conceivedfrom that tragic event a rooted aversion to the Ro­man name. He ascended the throne his father, andwith tlie assistance of the Parthians stood at bay withRome, till he fell at last by the perfidy of his own re­lations. After his death, Tigranes, by the appoint­ment of Augustus, was raised to the throne. Tibe­rius Nero, at the head of a powerful army, conductedhim to the capital of his dominions, The reign ofthis prince was short. His issue succeeded; but theline became extinct, notwithstanding the intermar­riages of brother and sister, allowed by the policy ofeastern nations, to strengthen the royal line. By or­der of Augustus, Artavasdes succeeded. To supporthis cause, Rome exerted her strength, and spilt theblood of her armies, but without success. The newking was driven from the throne. IV. In that juncture, Caius Csesar was' sent tocompose the troubles in Armenia. With the consentof the people that young commander placed the crownon the head of Ariobarzanes, by birth a Mede, dis-} tinguished by his rare accomplishments, and his grace­ful figure. After the death of this prince, who losthis life by an accident, the people refused obedienceto his descendants. A woman of the name of Eratosucceeded: but a female reign did not last long. Fromthat time the nation continued in a state of anarchy,without a master, yet not in possession of liberty. Itwas in this posture of affairs that Vonones enteredArmenia. The people received him with open arms.Artabanus, in the mean time, threatened to invadethe kingdom. The Armenians were not in force; andRome, without undertaking an expensive war againstthe Parthians, could not espouse their cause. VononesK fled for shelter to Creticus Silanus, the governor ofSyria. That officer promised his protection; but af-, terwards thought proper to secure the person of the • prince, leaving him, under a strong guard, to enjoyI' the title of king, and the parade of royalty. The ef­forts which Vonones made to escape from this mock-dignity, shall be related in due time. * V. Tiberius, with his usual phlegm, saw the storm