OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 249 field. The temporal power of the clergy was cherishedand exalted by the superstition or policy of the Carlovin-gian and Saxon dynasties, who blindly depended on theirmoderation and fidelity; and the bishoprics of Ger­many were made equal in extent and privilege, superiorin wealth and population, to the most ample states ofthe military order. As long as the emperors retained theprerogative of bestowing on every vacancy these eccle­siastic and secular benefices, their cause was maintainedby the gratitude or ambition of their friends and favour­ites. But in the quarrel of the investitures, they weredeprived of their influence over the episcopal chapters;the freedom of election was restored, and the sovereignwas reduced by a solemn mockery, to his first prayers,the recommendation, once in his reign, to a single pre­bend in each church. The secular governors, insteadof being recalled at the will of a superior, could be de­graded only by the sentence of their peers. In the firstage of the monarchy, the appointment of the son to thedutchyor county of his father, was solicited as a favour;it was gradually obtained as a custom, and extorted as aright: the lineal succession was often extended to thecollateral or female branches; the states of the empire(their popular, and at length their legal appellation) weredivided and alienated by testament and sale; and all ideaof a public trust was lost in that of a private and perpe­tual inheritance. The emperor could not even be en­riched by the casualties of forfeiture and extinction:within the term of a year, he was obliged to dispose of thevacant fief, and in the choice of the candidate, it was hisduty to consult either the general or the provincial diet.TheOer- After the death of Frederic II. Germany wasmamccon- left a monster with a hundred heads. A crowd stitution, ... A. c. 1250. of princes and prelates disputed the ruins ofthe empire; the lords of innumerable castles were lessprone to obey, than to imitate, their superiors; and ac­cording to the measure of their strength, their incessanthostilities received the names of conquest or robbery.