OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S55 this was no better than a dissolution of those customs for whichthey had so great a veneration. It appeared also no better thanan instance of barefaced impiety, to throw men to wild beasts,for the affording delight to the spectators, and it appealed aninstance of no less impiety, to change their own laws for suchforeign exercises : but, above all the rest, the trophies gave mostdistaste to the Jews, for as they imagined them to be images,included within the armour that hung round about them, theywere sorely displeased at them, because it was not the custom oftheir country to pay honours to such images. 2. Nor was Herod unacquainted with the disturbance theywere under; and as he thought it unseasonable to use violencewith them, so he spoke tosome of them by way of consolation, andin order to free them from that superstitious fear they wereunder; yet could not he satisfy them, but they cried out with oneaccord, out of their great uneasiness at the offences they thoughthe had been guilty of, that although they should think of bear­ing all the rest, yet would they never bear images of men intheir city, meaning the trophies, because this was disagreeableto the laws of their country. Now when Herod saw them insuch a disorder, and that they would not easily change their re­solution unless they received satisfaction in this point, he call­ed to him the most eminent men among them, and broughtthem upon the theatre, and showed them the trophies, and askedthem, what sort of things they took these trophies to be? Andwhen they cried out, that they were the images of men, he gaveorder that they should be stripped of these outward ornamentswhich were about them, and showed them the naked pieces ofwood ; which pieces of wood, now without any ornament, becamematter of great sport and laughter to them, because they had be­fore always had the ornaments of images themselves in derision. 3. When therefore Herod had thus got clear of the multitude,and had dissipated the vehemency of passion under which theyhad been, the greatest part of the people were disposed to changetheir conduct, and not to be displeased at him any longer; butstill some of them continued in their displeasure against him, forhis introduction of new customs, and esteemed the violation ofthe laws of their country as likely to be the origin of very greatmischiefs to them, so that they deemed it an instance of pietyrather to hazard themselves [to be put to death,] than to seem and to bring them in love with Paganish idolatry, and Paganish conduct of life, butto the dissolution of the law of Moses, and accordingly were greatly and justly con­demned by them, as appears here and every where else in Jcsephus. Nor is the caseof our modern masquerades, plays, operas, and the like pomps and vanitiet of thiiwicked world, of any butter tendency under Christianity. vou iI. y Y 25