OCR Output HOMA. sio BOMA. It Una MATtrmn'8 et Gaiaicus (or Dacicus),i Srouumw, Sakiarium, and Armamknta-i I. «m evidently gladiatorial schools witli theirfcnmam, situated apparent!/ on the northern««f the CselUn, not far from the amphitheatre.hm ittscbed to these institutions are frequently■Uimi is inscriptions. The Spoliarium and Ar-.wtiarirun roeak for themselves. The Saniariumi vwd that does not occur elsewhere, and is«ris ky Preller to denote a hospital (a sanie)n The wounded gladiators were received. For'.man soconnt of these institutions see Preller,tow. pp. 120—122. Lastly, the Mica Aureaki from an epigram of Martial's to have beenopamg room of Domitian's (iL 59): — )f*i wor; quid sim cemis; coenatio parra.fa me Cseureum prospicis, ccce, tholum." a il» mentioned, along with the Meta Sudans,buJt by Ilomitian in the Chronica Regia Colo-■M. in Eccard's Corpus Hutoricum (vol. i.iil) Tnt DmRtn to the S. of the Caeuan. U tat S. of the Caelian lies a somewhat hillyntt. bounded on the W. by the Aventine, and^heading the 1st and 12th Regions of Au­to, or those called Porta Capena and Piscinafca. The Utter of these is decidedly the least«uct district of Rome, but the former presentsni rejects of considerable interest. Of the:• Citxoa itself we have already treated. Inatmdiate vicinity stood the double Temple of»« aid Viamn, vowed by Marcellus in bisit van, but not erected till after his conquest ofc* It was the first intention of Marcellusktfi the deities should be under the same roof;*Wd. the temple seems to have been a merettt/ n of an ancient one dedicated to Honos byii:u Verrucosus many years before. (Cic Ar. D.I) Bat when Marcellus was about to dedicate*l to introduce the statue of another deity= '-■» sanctnary, the pontitices interposed, andV tin to do so, on the ground that the"■'io, or expiation of any prodigy occurringvnpie so constructed, would be difficult to(Liv. xxvii. 25.) Hence, Marcellus was•vrwri u> add another temple of Virtus, and to"** images of the deities "separatis aedibus;""■th tie work was pressed on in haste, he« eve to dedicate them. (Liv. I.e.; Val. Max.je.) Nevertheless, we frequently find the'xAtjooed in the singular number, as if it»n«d only one building (" ad aedera Honoris^inma,' Cic Verr. iv. 54; cf. Ascon. ad Cic.• It; also the Sotitia and Curionan.) Hence,». ir» mnst natural conclusion is that it con-J too cellar under the same roof, like the> <f Vrnns and Rome, a form which agreesuV aaaiipliuu of Symmachus: "Majores—tnin Uijuori ac Virtuti gemella facie junctim(F.puL L 21.) The temple was adorned-> <pttli of Grecian art brought by MarcellusVnmse: an instance noted and condemned*y » the first of that kind of spoliation,<* obwjves was srobeequently inflicted uponri. teropks themselves, and especially upon•n Maple of Marcellus; for, in Livy's time,1 tin* omamenta remained, which had pre-nitni it an object of attraction to all>*i who visited Rome (xxv. 40, cf. xxxiv. 4). i They probably disappeared during the Civil Wars,in which the Roman temples seem to have sufferedboth from neglect and spoliation; for in the time ofCicero the Syracusan spoils still existed in thetemple (in Verr. iv. 54). It appears to have beenburnt in the fire of Nero, since it is mentioned ashaving been restored by Vespasian. (Plin. xxxv.37.) According to Aurelius Victor (Vir. III. 32) theannual procession of the Roman knights to thetemple of Castor started from this temple of Honoaand Virtus, whereas Dionysius (xi. 13) names thetemple of Mars as the starting-place. Becker(Ilandb. p. 311) regards the discrepancy betweenthese accounts as tending to prove the correctnessof his assumption that the temples must have lainclose together. That one of the accounts is er­roneous is a more probable conclusion, and it is acertain one that it is fallacious to draw any topo­graphical deductions from such very shadowy pre­mises. The true site of the Temple of Mars hasbeen ascertained as satisfactorily as that of any ofthe monuments which do not actually speak forthemselves; such, we mean, as the Colosseum,Trajan's column, the Pantheon, and others of thelike description. There can be no doubt that thetemple of Mars, instead of being close to the PortaCapena, or at & Auto, as Becker places it (Hundb.p. 513), lay on the Via Appia, at the distance ofabout l.J miles from that gate. The proofs areoverwhelming. In the first place an inscription,still preserved in the Vatican, recording the level­ling of the Clivus Martis, was found in the VignaNari, outside of the Porta Appia (the modern5. Sebaitiano). Secondly, another inscription, in thePalazzo Barberini, recorded by Fabretti {Inter.p. 724, no. 443), Marini (f ratr. Arv. p. 8), andothers, testifies that Salvia Marcellina gave a pieceof ground to the Collegium of Aesculapius andHygia for a small temple, close to the temple ofMars, between the first and second milestone on theVia Appia, on the left-hand side in going from thecity. Thirdly, both the Notitia and Curiosumplace the Aedes Martis at the extremity of the firstHegio, close to the Flumen Almonis. The Almoflows outside the Porta Appia, near the VignaNari .*—■ "Est locus ante urbem, qua primum nascitur ingensAppia, quaque Italo geniitua Alinone CybebePonit, et Idaeos jam nun reminiscitur atnnes.1' (Stat Sib. v. 1. MS.) A brook now flows between the Porta S. Sebas-tiano and the church of Itomme quo radii, which,with great probability, has lwen identified withthe Almo. (Cluver, Ital. Ant. p. 718; Westphal,Rom. Campagna, p. 17.) Fourthly, the same localityis indicated by several documents uf the middle ages.Thus, in the Acts of the Martyrs: " Tunc B. Ste-phanus ductus a militibus foros muros Appiae portaead T. Martis" {Act of S. Stephanas and S. Julius')."Diacones duxerunt in clivum Martis ante templumet ibidem decollatus est" {Act of S. Siztvs). Andthe Mirabilia (in Mostfaucnn, JMar. Ital. p. 283):"Haec sunt loca quae inveniuntur in passionibussanctorum foris portam Appiam, ubi beatus Syxtusdecollatus fuit, et ubi Dominus apparuit Petro,Domine quo raditt Ibi templum Martis, intuaportam, arcus Syllae." Now, the passages in theclassics which relate to the subject do not runcounter to these indications, but, on the contrary, 3 o 2