OCR Output 4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V. board Phæax, the son of Erasistratus, with'whom twoother persons were joined in commission, to execute anembassy there. For the Leontines, after the departureof the Athenians from Sicily, in consequence of thejoint-accommodation, had inrolled many strangers asdenizens of their city, and the populace had a plan in z-gitation for a distribution of the lands. The noble,alarmed at this, gain the concurrence of the Syracusansand eject the commons. They were dispersed, and wan­dered up and down as fo many vagabonds; whilst thenoble, striking up an agreement with the Syracusans, a-bandoned and left in desolation their own city, settlingat Syracuse as free citizens of that place. And yet,foon after, some of this number, dissatisfied even here,forsook Syracuse again, and seize upon Phoceæ, a quar­ter of the old city of the Leontines, and upon Bricin-niæ, which is a fortress in the Leontine. Hither thegreater part of the ejected commons resorted to them jand, adhering firmly together, from these strong holdsthey annoyed the country by their hostilities. "When the Athenians had intelligence of this, theyfend out Phæax, to persuade, by all proper methods,their old allies in that country, and to gain, if possible,the concurrence of the other Sicilians, to take up arms,for the preservation of the people of Leontium, againstthe incroaching power of the Syracufans. Phæax, up­on his arrival, recommendeth the scheme successfully tothe Camarineans and Agrigentines. But his negotiationsmeeting with fome obstacles at Gela, he desisted fromaddressing himself to the rest, since he was assured hecould not possibly succeed. Retiring therefore through,the district of the Siculi to Catane, and calling on hisroad at Bricinniæ, and having encouraged the malcon­tents there totpersevere, he departed. Not but that,in this Sicilian voyage, both passing and repaffing, andalso upon the coast of Italy, he had urged to several ci­ties " how expedient for them was the Athenian"friendship."