OCR Output Ctap.X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS* 3» sedition ; for, after Varns was gone away, Sabinus, Caesar's pro­curator, staid behind, and greatly distressed the Jews, relying onthe forces that were left there, that they would by their multi­tude protect him ; for he made use of them, and armed them ashis guards, thereby so oppressing the Jews, and giving them sogreat disturbance, that at length they rebelled ; for he used forcein seizing the citadels, and zealously pressed on the search af­ter the king's money, in order to seize upon it by force, onaccount of his love of gain, and his extraordinary covetousness.2. But the approach of Pentecost, which is a festival of ours socalled from the days of our forefathers, a great many ten thou­sands of men got together ; nor did they come only to celebrate,the festival, but out of their indignation at the madness of Sabi-nns, and at the injuries he offered them. A great number therewas of Galileans, and Idumeans, and many men from Jericho,and others who had passed over the river Jordan, and inhabitedthose parts. This whole multitude joined themselves to all therest, and were more zealous than the others in making an assaulton Sabinus, in order to be avenged on him : so they parted them­selves into three bands, and encamped themselves in the placesfollowing : some of them seized on the Hippodrome, and of theother two bands, one pitched themselves from the northern partof the temple to the southern, on the east quarter; but the thirdband held the western part of the city, where the king's palacewas. Their work tended entirely to besiege the Romans, andto inclose them on all sides. Now, Sabinus was afraid of thesemens number, and of their resolution, who had little regard totheir lives, but were very desirous not to be overcome, whilethey thopght it a point of puissance to overcome their enemies ;so he sent immediately a letter to Varus, and, as he used to do, wasvery pressing with him, and entreated him to come quickly tohis assistance ; because the forces he had left were in imminentdanger, and would probably, in no long time, be seized upon, andcut to pieces ; while he did himself get up to the highest towerof the fortress Fhasaelus, which had been built in honour of Pha-saelus, king Herod's brother, and called so when the * Parthianshad brought him to his death. So Sabinus gave thence a signalto the Romans to fall upon the Jews, although he ihd not him­self venture so much as to come down to his friends, and thoughthe might expect that the others should expose themselves first todie on account of his avarice. However, the Romans venturedto make a sally out of the place, and a terrible battle ensued ;wherein, though it is true the Romans beat their adversaries, yet * See Anti<j. B. XIV. ch. xiii.J 10. and Of the War, B. H. ch. xii. § 9.