OCR Output 440 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. messengers sent by them represented to us,that they are no way concerned with accusa­tions which belong to the Jews; but chooseto live after the customs of the Greeks. Ac­cordingly we declare them free from suchaccusations: and order that, agreeable totheir petition, their temple be named *theTemple of Jupiter Hellenius." He alsosent the like epistle to Apollonius, the go­vernor of that part of the country, in theforty-si xthf year, and the eighteenth day ofthe month Hecatombeon. CHAP. VI. OF THE EXPLOITS OF MATTATHIAS, GRANDSON TO ASMO-NEUS J HIS DEATH, AND THE SUCCESSION OF JUDAS. NOW at this time there was one Matta­thias,J who dwelt at Modin, the son ofJohn, the son of Simeon, the son of Asmo-neus; a priest of the order of Joarib,|| anda citizen of Jerusalem. He had five sons:John, who was called Gaddis; Simon, whowas called Matthes; Judas, surnamed §Mac-cabeus; Eleazar, who was called Auran;and Jonathan, who was called Apphus.Now this Mattathias lamented to his chil­dren the sad state of their affairs, and theravage made in the city, and the plunderingof the temple, and the calamities the multi- * This title of Jupiter, Zsug 'EXXrjvi©-, or GrecianJupiter, is mentioned in the coins of Syracuse, and byAristophanes, and by Pindar also: as Spanheim hereinforms us. t Instead of the 46th year in the copies, we ought nodoubt, to read here the 146th year: i. e. of the Seleu-cidae: to which this rescript naturally belongs. But howHecatombeon, an Attic or Athenian name of a month,comes into a Syromacedonian rescript, we cannot tell.Nobody can think it original. Nor ought we to supposeit so written by Josephus: who does not use to corrupthis ancient monuments so absurdly. But how it ought tobe corrected does not appear.X See 1 Mace. ii. 1—14. II This was the first of the twenty-four courses of thepriests that served in the temple, 1 Chron. xxiv. 7. andbecause Mattathias undertook to determine for the neces­sity of fighting on the sabbath, in case they were as­saulted by the enemy, some have from hence inferred, thatthe people had made choice of him for their high-priest:but, besides that, this decision is not sufficient to provethis, and that it no where appears, that he ever per­formed the office of high-priest, but only put himself atthe head of a poor distressed people, as being a personof the greatest power and authority among them, it iscertain that both Menelaus and Alcimus were then alive;and though they were wicked men, and intruders intothe office, yet they were nominated by king Antiochus, tude were under; and he told them, that itwas better for them to die for the laws oftheir country, than to live so ingloriously asthey then did. When those that were appointed by theking were come to Modin, that they mightcompel the Jews to do what they ordered,and to enjoin those that were there to offersacrifice, as the king had commanded, theydesired that Mattathias, a person of thegreatest character among them, both onother accounts, and particularly on accountof such a numerous, and so deserving a fa­mily of children, would begin the sacrifice;because his fellow-citizens would follow hisexample, and because such a procedurewould make him honoured by the king.But Mattathias boldly replied he would notdo it; and that if all the other nations wouldobey the commands of Antiochus, either outof fear, or to please him; yet would not henor his sons forsake the religious worship oftheir country. But as soon as he had endedhis speech, there came one of the Jews intothe midst of them, and sacrificed, as Antio­chus had commanded: at which Mattathiashad great indignation, and ran upon him vio­lently, with his sons, who had swords withthem; and slew both the man himself thatsacrificed, and Apelles the king's general, (who then assumed the right of nomination,) and so werelooked upon as high-priests. Calmet's Dictionary, underthe word Mattathias. B. § That this appellation of Maccabee, was not first ofall given to Judas Maccabeus, nor was derived from anyinitial letters of the Hebrew words on his banner, MiKamoka Be Elim, Jehovah? Who is like unto thee amongthe gods, O Jehovah? Exod. xv. 11. as the modern Rab­bins vainly pretend, see Authentic Records, part I. page205, 206. Only we may note, that the original name ofthese Maccabees, and their posterity, was Asmoneans,which was derived from Asmoneus, the great grandfatherof Mattathias, as Josephus here informs us. Dean Prideaux observes, that abbreviations of thisand several other kinds, were very frequent amongthe Jews, and that the Romans bore upon their ensignsthe letters S. P. Q,. R. Senatus Populusque Romanus; butstill (he adds) it must be owned, that Judas was calledby this name, 1 Mace. ii. 4—66. before ever he set upthis standard; and therefore others choose rather to de­rive it from the Hebrew words Mak-ke baiah, i. e. a con­queror in the Lord, which explication both the doubleof which occurs in the word Maccabee, and his father'saccount of Judas, viz. that he had been mighty andstrong even from his youth, seem to favour. Prideaux'sConnection, anno 167, and Calmet's Commentary on1 Mace. ii. 4. B.