OCR Output 364 LIVY. military discipline, while their arms were of a kindwell calculated for pressing close on the Macedonians,who had indeed the advantage of ground, with balistasand catapultas disposed on almost every rock as onwalls. After many wounds given and received on bothsides, and numbers being slain, as in a regular engage­ment, darkness put an end to the fight. 11. While matters were in this state a herdsman,sent by Charopus, prince of the Epirots, was broughtto the consul. He said, that' being accustomed to feedhis herd in the forest, then occupied by the king'scamp, he knew every winding and path in the neigh­boring mountains; and that if the consul thought properto send some troops with him, he would lead them by aroad, neither dangerous nor difficult, to a spot over theenemy's head.' Charopus sent a message to the Ro­man, to give just so much credit to this man's accountas should still leave every thing in his own power, andas little as possible in that of the other. Though theconsul rather wished than dared to give the intelligencefull belief, and though his emotions of joy were stronglychecked by fear, yet being moved by the confidencedue to Charopus, he resolved to put to trial the favor­able offer. In order to prevent all suspicion of thematter, during the two following days he carried onattacks against the enemy without intermission, draw­ing out troops against them in every quarter, andsending up fresh men to relieve the wearied. Then,selecting four thousand foot and three hundred horse,he put them under the command of a military tribune,with directions to advance the horse as far as the na­ture of the ground allowed; and when they came toplaces impassable to cavalry, then to post them in someplain; that the infantry should proceed by the roadwhich the guide would show; and that when, accord­ing to his promise, they arrived on the height over theenemy's head, then they should give a signal by smoke,but raise no shout, until the tribune should have rea­son to think that, in consequence of the signal receivedfrom him, the battle was begun. He ordered that the