OCR Output 352 bECLiNE AND FALL [cHAP. XLIV. scendants were included in the family of their commonancestor; and the claims of adoption were not less sa­cred or less rigorous than those of nature. Withoutfear, though not without danger of abuse, the Romanlegislators had reposed an unbounded confidence in thesentiments of paternal love; and the oppression wastempered by the assurance, that each generation mustsucceed in its turn to the awful dignity of parent andmaster. slnj'ofthe' ^e ^rs^ limitation of paternal power is ascribed to•uthorHy Just'ce and humanity of Numa : and the maid, who,with his father's consent, had espoused a freeman, wasprotected from the disgrace of becoming the wife of aslave. In the first ages, when the city was pressed, andoften famished by her Latin and Tuscan neighbours,the sale of children might be a frequent practice; but asa Roman could not legally purchase the liberty of hisfellow-citizen, the market must gradually fail, and thetrade would be destroyed by the conquests of the repub­lic. An imperfect right of property was at length com­municated to sons; and the three-fold distinction oipro-fectitious, adventitious, and professional, was ascertainedby the jurisprudence of the Code and Pandects.11 Of allthat proceeded from the father, he imparted only the use,and reserved the absolute dominion; yet if his goodswere sold, the 'filial portion was excepted, by a favourableinterpretation, from the demands of the creditors. Inwhatever accrued by marriage, gift, or collateral succes­sion, the property was secured to the son ; but the father, ^•unless he had been specially excluded, enjoyed the usu­fruct during his life. As a just and prudent reward ofmilitary virtue, the,spoils of the enemy were acquired, .Noctes Atticap, 1. 2.) The lessons of the philosopher Taurus were justified by theold and memorable example of Fahius; and we may contemplate the same story inthe style of Livy, (24. 34.) and the homely idiom of Claudius Quadrigarius the an­nalist. 'i. . ' . 4 See the'gradual enlargement and security of tlie filial peculinm in the Institutes,<lib.2. tit. 9.) the Pandects, (lib. 15u tit. 1. lib. 41. tit. 1.) and the Code. (lib. 4; tit.26, 97.)