OCR Output 4 70 OEUM. OGYRIS. of the Messenlnn gulf, represented by the moderntown of Yitylo, which has borrowed its name fromit. Pausanias .says that it was 80 stadia fromThalamus and 150 from Messa; the latter distanceis too great, hut there is no doubt of the identity ofOetylus and Vitylo; and it appears that Pausaniasmade a mistake in the names, as the distance betweenOetylus and Caenepolis is 150 stadia. Oetylus ismentioned by Homer, anil was at a later time one ofthe Eleathero-Laconian towns. It was still governedby its c|<hors in the third century of the Christianera. Pausanias saw at Oetylus a temple of Sarapis,and a wooden statue o£ Apollo Cameius in theagora. Anions the modem houses of Vitylo thereare remains of Hellenic walls, and in the church abeautiful tinted Ionic column supporting a beam atone end of the aisle, and three or four Ionic capitalsin the well of the church, probably the remains ofthe temple of Sarapis. (Horn. //. ii. 585; Strab. viii.p. 360; Paus. iii. 21. § 7, 25. § 10, 26. § 1; Steph.15. s. v.; Ptol./.t*.; But kh, /. c.; Morritt, in Walpole'sTurkey, p. 54; Leake, .\forea, vol. i. p. 3 J 3; Boblaye,lierfierches, <Jc. p. 92; Curtius, PttoponncsoSj vol. ii.p. 283.) OEUM (O7oi'), a mountain fortress situated ineastern Locris, above Opus, and destroyed by anearthquake. (Strab. i. p. CO.) According to Gellits ruins are to be seen on a steep hill, 25 minutesabove Livanitit. (/fin. p. 232.) OEUM or IUM (OioV, Olov, *IdV: Eth. O/dVij*,'IaT7js), the chief town of the district Sciritis in La-conia, commanded the puss through which was ther«>ad from Tegea to Sparta. It probably stood in theKtisura, or narrow pass through the watershed of themountains forming the natural boundary betweenLaconia and Arcadia. When the Theban armyunder Kpaminondas first invaded Laconia in fourdivisions, hy tour different passes, the only divisionwhich encountered any resistance was the one whichmarched through the pftSS defended hy Oeum. Butthe Spartan Ischolaus, who commanded a body oftroops at this place, was overpowered by superiornumbers; and the invading force thereupon pro­ceeded to Sellasia, where they were joined by theother divisions of the army. (Xen. Hell, vi. 5. 24—26.) In Xenophon the town is called *\6vanil the inhabitants 'Iorcu; but the form O.'oe orOlov is probably more correct. Such towns or villages,situated upon mountainous heights, are frequentlycalled Oeum or Oea. (Coinp. Harpocrat s. v. Ohv.)Probably the Oeum in Sciritis is referred to in Ste­ph anus under Olos' iroh'ixviov Ityias. Afox^AosMi/(To*s' ol TroKirat OiOTOl. Oeum is not mentioned subsequently, unless wesuppose it to be the same place as Iasl'S ("Iaaoj),which Pausanias describes as situated within thefrontiers of Laconia, but belonging to the Achaean*.(PaUS. \ii. 13. § 7; com p. Said. $. r. "Iarro?; Leake,Murea, vol. Hi. p. 30; Ross, ReUen m Pelopottnei^p. 179; Curtius, Pclopomusos, vol. ii. p. 2(34.) OEUM CERAMEICUM. [Attica, p. 326, a.] OEUM DECELE1CUM. [Attica, p. 330, a.] (KiDAKMI. [Makmakh \.] OGLASA, a small island in the Tyrrhenian orIJgurian sea, lietween Corsica and the coast ofEtrnria. (I'tin. iii. 6. s. 12.) It is now calledJ/cmfc Crista. [E. 11. B.J OGY'GIA ('Clyvylrf) is the name given by Homerin the Odyssey to the island inhabited by tlie nymphCalypso. He describes it as the central point ornavel of the sea (vij.<pa\os daAdao-qs), far from a'U other lands ; and the only clue to its positko iWkhe gives us is that Ulysses reached it ifierteajborne at sea for eight days and nights after hfkiescaped from Charybdis; and that when h« qinnaiit again he sailed fur seventeen days and nights ifla fair wind, having the Great Bear on his left bad(i.e. in an easterly direction), until he can* in crfs.of the land of the Phaeacians. (Mom. "-In: L 30,85, v. 55. 268—280, xii. 448.) It is hardly ■«■>sary to observe that the Homeric geography iia>gard to all these distant lauds must be confident!altogether fabulous, and that it is unpojoaailattach any value to the distances above siven. mare wholly at a lass to account fur theassigned by the Greeks in later days to theof the Odyssey: it is certain that nothing aaccord with the data (?-uch as they are) stippladHomer than the identifications they adopted,the island of Calypso was by many fixedcoast of Bruttium, near the Lacinianwhere there is nothing but a mere rock of vertsize, and close to the shore. (Plin. iii- 10. a,Swinburne's Travels, voL i. p.225.) Oihera,placed the abode of the goddess in theGaulos (or Goto), an opinion apparentlyvanced by CalUmachns (Strab. i. p. 44. vii. p.and which has at least some semblance ofbility. But the identification of Phaeacia witfccyra. though more generally adopted inhas really no more foundation than that of QfMwith Gaulos: so that the only thing apprad|to a geographical statement fails on cIt is indeed only the natural desire to giftcreations of poetic fancy a local habitation asgible reality, that could ever have led to tbadating the scenes in the Odyssey with paspots in Sicily and Italy; and the view ofstheoes, that the geography of the voyage of EWwas wholly the creation of the poet's fancy,"tainly the only one tenable. At the same 1cannot lie denied that some of the fables thenwere founded on vague rumours brought by v«_probably Phoenicians, from these distant lands,the account of Scylla and Chary bdis,aggerated, was doubtless based on truth. 1very character of these marvels of the far«the tales concerning them, in itself excludes 1that there ffil any accurate geographical kaof them. The ancients themselves were atias to whether the wanderings of Ulysses Uwithin the limits of the Mediterranean, arltended to the ocean beyond. (Strab. i. pp. >The fact, in all probability, is that Homerconception of the distinction between the Iis at least very doubtful whether he was 80even with the existence of Italy; and taexpanse of the sea beyond it was tmdesAhim a region of mystery and fable. The various opinions pot forth bv and'modern writers concerning the Homeric 0| are well reviewed by Ukert {Geographic anHu. Homer, vol. i. part ii. pp. 310—319);inferences that may n-ally l»e drawn from'guage of the poet himself are clearly stated(/&. part i. pp. 19—31.) [E.10GYKIS(En7vp(J, Strab. xvi p. 766%ioff the southern coast of Carmaniastadia, which was traditionally said totomb of king Erytbras, from which thesupposed to have derived its name. It wsa3by a huge mound planted with wild palms. 1