OCR Output 20 ROMAN EMPIRE. Blessed Virgin he revered as the mother of Christ, buthis ears were offended with the rash and recent title ofmother of God,1 which had been insensibly adopted sincethe origin of the Arian controversy. From the pulpitof Constantinople, a friend of the patriarch, and after­ward the patriarch himself, repeatedly preached againstthe use or the abuse, of a word™ unknown to the apos­tles, unauthorized by the church, and which could onlytend to alarm the timorous, to mislead the simple, toamuse the profane, and to justify, by a seeming resem­blance, the old genealogy of Olympus." In his calmermoments Nestorius confessed, that it might be toleratedor excused by the union of the two natures, and thecommunication of their idioms:0 but he was exasperated,by contradiction, to disclaim the worship of anew-born,an infant Deity, to draw his inadequate similes from theconjugal or civil partnerships of life, and to describe themanhood of Christ as the robe, the instrument, the taber­nacle of his Godhead. At these blasphemous sounds,the pillars of the sanctuary were shaken. The unsuc­cessful competitors of Nestorius indulged their pious orpersonal resentment, the Byzantine clergy was secretlydispleased with the intrusion of a stranger: whateveris superstitious or absurd, might claim the protection C — Deipara: as in zoology we familiarly speak of oviparous and vivipa­rous animals. It is not easy to fix the invention of this word , which La Croze (Chris-lianisme de» Indes, torn. 1. p. 16.) ascribes to Eusebius of Caesarea and the Arians.The orthodox testimonies are produced by Cyril and Petavius ; (Dogmat. Theolog.torn. 5. lib. 5. c. 15. p. 254, ficc.) but the veracity of the saint is questionable, andthe epithet of SIOTMOC so easily slides from the margin to the text of a Catholic MS. "Basnage, in his Histoire de 1'Eglise, a work of controversy, (torn. 1. p. 505.)justifies the mother, by the blood of God. (Acts xx. 28. with Mill's various read­ings.) But the Greek MSS. are far from unanimous; and the primitive style ofthe blood of Christ is preserved in the Syriac version, even in those copies whichwere used by the Christians of St. Thomas on the coast of Malabar. (La Croze,'Christianisme des Indes, torn. 1. p. 547.) The jealousy of the Nestorians andMonophysites has guarded the purity of their text. "The Pagans of Egypt already laughed at the new Cybele of the Christians;(Isidor. lib. 1. epist. 54.) a letter was forged in the name of Hypatia, to ridiculethe theology of her assassin. (Synodicon, c. 216. in 4 torn. Concil. p. 484.) In thearticle of NEsToRIUs, Bayle has scattered some loose philosophy on the worshipof the Virgin Mary. "The am)on; of the Greeks, a mutual loan or transfer of the idioms or proper­ties of each nature to the other — of infinity to man, possibility to God,&c. Twelverules on this nicest of subjects compose the Theological Grammar of Petavius,(Dogmata Theolog. torn. 5. lib*, c. 14, 15. p. 209,&c.)