OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. tl this the rather, because the infection which spread thence amongthe younger sort, who were zealous for it, brought the publicto destruction. 2. The Jews had for a great while had three sects of philoso­phy peculiar to themselves, the sect of the Essens, and the sectof the Sadducees, and the third sort of opinions was that of thosecalled Pharisees ; of which sects, although I have already spokenin the second book of the Jewish war, yet will I a little touchupon them now. 3. Now, for the Pharisees, thty live meanly, and despise de­licacies in diet; and they follow the contract of reason ; and whatthat prescribes to them as good for them, they do ; and they thinkthey ought earnestly to 'strive to observe reason's dictates foepractice. They also pay a respect to such as are in years ; norare they so bold as to contradict them in any thing which theyhave introduced; and, when they determine that all things aredone by fate, they do not take away the freedom from men ofacting as thej think fit; since their notion is, that it hath pleasedGod to make a temperament, whereby what he wills is done,but so that the will of man can act virtuously or viciously. Theyalso believe, that souls have an immortal vigour in them, andthat under the earth there will be rewards or punishments, ac­cording- as they have lived virtuously or viciously in this life; andthe latter are to be detained in an everlasting prison, but that theformer shall have power to revive and live again ; on account ofwhich doctrines, they are able greatly to persuade the body ofthe people ; and whatsoever they do about divine worship,prayers, and sacrifices, they perform them according to theirdirection ; insomuch that the cities gave great attestations t6them on account of their entire virtuous conduct, both in theactions of their lives, and their discourses also. 4. But the doctrine of the Sadducees is this, That souls diewith the bodies ; nor do they regard the observation of any thingbesides what the law enjoins them ; for they think it an instanceof virtue to dispute with those teachers of philosophy whom theyfrequent; but this doctrine is received but by a fewj yet by thosestill of the greatest dignity. But they are able to do almost no­thing of themselves ; for when they become magistrates* as theyare unwillingly and by force sometimes obliged to be, they ad­dict themselves to the notions of the Pharisees, because the mul­titude would not otherwise bear them. 5. The doctrine of the Essens is this, That all things are bestascribed to God. They teach the immortality of souls, and e-Steem that the rewards of righteousness are to be earnestly stri- Voi'. III. H ^ vea