OCR Output 368 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIH. payments; and nothing could be seen either of Tissapher-nes or the Phœnician fleet; and Philippus, who accompa­nied him, sent advice to Mindarus, the admiral in chief;and Hippocrates, farther, a citizen of Sparta, who wasthen at Phaselis, advised him also, that '. this fleet"would never join him, and in all respects they were"shamefully abused by Tissaphernes ;"— as Pharnaba-zus had made them an invitation, and declared him­self ready, if aided by the consederate fleet, to engageas strongly as Tiflaphernes for the revolt of what citiesyet remained in subjection to the Athenians ; — Minda­rus, hoping to find more punctuality in the latter, withnotable conduct, and by a sudden signal to the fleer,that his motions might not be discovered at Samos,weighs from Miletus with seventy-three sail, and benthis course to the Hellespont. But, earlier this sum­mer, sixteen ships had steered their course thither, andravaged part of the Chersonesus. Mindarus met withtempestuous weather in his passage, which forced himto put into Icarus; and, after staying there five or sixdays for want of weather to keep the sea, he arrives atChios. Thrasyllus, so soon as informed of the departure fromMiletus, stood after him wich five and fifty sail, ma­king the best of his way lest the other should enter theHellespont before he reached him. But, gaining intel­ligence that he was put into Chios, and concluding hedesigned to remain there, he sixed his scouts at Lesbosand the opposite continent; that, if the Peloponnesianfleet put out, their motions might be delcried. Hehimself, repairing to Methymne, ordered quantitiesof meal and other necessaries to be prepared, that, incase he should be forced to stay in these parts, he mightmake frequent cruises from Lesbos against Chios. But, as Eressus in Lesbos had revolted, his designwas farther to attempt its reduction, in cafe it were fea­sible. For some of the Methynean exiles, and thosenot the most inconsiderable of the number, having brought