OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST A PI ON. 449 left desolate, and others are built anew, according to the plea足sure of men : whereas they ought to have preserved theiropinion about God, and that worship which is due to him,always and immutably the same. 37. But now this Apollonius Molo was one of these foolishand proud men. However, nothing that I have said was un足known to those that were real philosophers among the Greeks;nor were they unacquainted with those frigid pretences of alle足gories [which had been alleged for such things;] on whichaccount they justly despised them, but have still agreed withus as to the true and becoming notions of God; whence it wasthat Plato would not have political settlements admit of anyone of the other poets, and dismisses even Homer himself,with a garland on his head, and with ointment poured uponhim, and this because he should not destroy the right notionsof God with his fables. Nay, Plato principally imitated ourlegislator in this point, that he enjoined his citizens to havethe main regard to this precept, that every one of them shouldlearn their laws accurately. He also ordained that they shouldnot admit of foreigners intermixing with their own people atrandom; and provided that the commonwealth should keepitself pure, and consist of such only as persevered in theirown laws. Apollonius Molo did no way consider this, whenhe made it one branch of his accusation against us, that wedo not admit of such as have different notions about God, norwill we have fellowship with those that choose to observe away of living different from ourselves; yet is not this methodpeculiar to us, but common to all other men; not among theordinary Grecians only, but among such of those Grecians asare of the greatest reputation among them. Moreover, theLacedemonians continued in their way of expelling foreigners,and would not, indeed, give leave to their own people to travelabroad, as suspecting that those two things would introduce adissolution of their own laws: and, perhaps, there may bosome reason to blame the rigid severity of the Lacedemonians;for they bestowed the privilege of their city on no foreigners,nor, indeed, would give leave to them to stay among them:whereas we, though we do not think fit to imitate other insti足 38*