OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. Etruscans3 and Greeks :h in the mad abuse of prosperityand power, every pleasure that is innocent was deemedinsipid; and the Scatinian law,' which had been extortedby an act of violence, was insensibly abolished by the lapseof time and the multitude of criminals. By this law, therape, perhaps the seduction, of an ingenious youth, wascompensated, as a personal injury, by the poor damagesof ten thousand sesterces, or fourscore pounds; the ra-visher might be slain by the resistance or revenge of chas­tity; and I wish to believe, that at Rome, as in Athens,the voluntary and effeminate deserter of his sex was de­graded from the honours and the rights of a citizen.k Butthe practice of vice was not discouraged by the severityof opinion: the indelible stain of manhood was confound­ed with the more venial transgressions of fornication andadultery, nor was the licentious lover exposed to the samedishonour which he impressed on the male or femalepartner of his guilt. From Catullus to Juvenal,1 thepoets accuse and celebrate the degeneracy of the times,and the reformation of manners was feebly attempted bythe reason and authority of the civilians, till the mostvirtuous of the Caesars proscribed the sin against natureas a crime against society.1" t Times (lib. 1.) and Theopompos (lib. 43. apod Athenaeum, lib. 12. p. 517.) de­scribe the luxury and last of the Etruscans : woXu fxtv roi yi yjuftvei a-uvmnts tw; tw-trt xat rut /uiigoxiu;. About the same period, (A. U. C. 445.) the Roman youth stu­died in Etruria. (Lib. 9. 36.) * The Persians had been corrupted in the same sohool : air' EXXnrav fxistmrtt ira.t-ci jxirymai. (Herodot. lib. 1. c. 135.) A curious dissertation might be formed onthe introduction of paederasty after the time of Homer, its progress among the Greeksof Asia and Europe, the vehemence of their passions, and the thin device of virtue and'friendship which amused the philosophers of Athens. But, scelera ostendi oportetdum puniuntur, abscoudi flagitia. 1 The name, the date, and the provisions of this law, are equally doubtful. (Gra-vina, Opp. p. 432.433. Heineccius, Hist. Jur. Rom. no. 108. Ernesti, Clav. Cice-ron. in Indice Legum.) But I will observe that the nefanda Venus of the honestGerman is styled aversa by the more polite Italian. • See the Oration of yEschines against the catamite Timarchus. (in Reiske, Ora­tor. Grace, tom. 3. p. 21—184.) 1 A crowd of disgraceful passages will force themselves on the memory of the -classic reader: I will only remind him of the cool declaration of Ovid.— -Odi concuhitas qui non utrumque resolvunt.Hoc est quod poerum tangar amore minus.m /Elins, Lampridias, in Vit. Heliogahal. in Hist. August, p. 112. Aurelins Vic­tor, in Philippo, Codex Theodos. lib. 9. tit. 7. leg. 7. and Godefroy's Commentary,toiu. 3. p. 63. Theodosius abolished the subterraneous brothels of Rome, in whichthe prostitution of both sexes was aoled with impunity.