OCR Output an. 896.] 319 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. chief. But John was chief of two hundredthousand.* The same man was chief of thetribe of Benjamin; and had two hundredthousand archers under him. There wasanother chief, whose name was Jehozabad,who had a hundred and eighty thousandarmed men. This multitude was distributedto be ready for the king's service; besidesthose whom he sent to the best fortifiedcities. Jehoshaphat took for his son Jehoram towife, Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, king ofthe ten tribes. And when, after some time,he went to Samaria, Ahab received him cour­teously, and treated the army that followedhim in a splendid manner; with great plentyof corn and wine, and of slain beasts; anddesired that he would join with him in the waragainst the king of Syria; that he might re­cover from him the city of Ramoth, in Gilead.For though it had belonged to his father, yethad the king of Syria's father taken it awayfrom him. And upon Jehoshaphat's promiseto afford him his assistance; (for indeed hisarmy was not inferior to the other's,) and hissending for his army from Jerusalem to Sa­maria, the two kings went out of the city;and each of them sat on his own throne, andeach gave their orders to the respectivearmies. Now Jehoshaphat bade them callthe prophets, if there were any there; andinquire of them concerning this expeditionagainst the king of Syria, whether they wouldgive them counsel to make the expedition atthis time. For there was peace at that timebetween Ahab and the king of Syria, whichhad lasted three years, from the time he hadtaken him captive till that day. So Ahab called his own prophets, being innumber about four hundred,f and bade theminquire of God whether he would grant himthe victory, if he made an expedition againstBenhadad, and enable him to overthrow thatcity, for whose sake it was that he was going to war. Now these prophets gave theircounsel for making this expedition; and said,that he would defeat the king of Syria, and,as formerly, would reduce him under hispower. But Jehoshaphat, understanding bytheir words that they were false prophets,asked Ahab, whether there were not someother prophet belonging to the true God?that they might have surer information con­cerning futurities. Ahab said, there was in­deed such a one, but that he hated him, ashaving prophesied evil to him; and havingforetold that he should be overcome, andslain by the king of Syria; and that for thiscause he had him now in prison; and that hisname was Micaiah, the son of Imlah. Butupon Jehoshaphat's desire that he might beproduced, Ahab sent an eunuch, who broughtMicaiah to him. Now the eunuch had in­formed him by the way, that all the otherprophets had foretold that the king shouldgain the victory. But he said, it was notlawful for him to lie against God; but thathe must speak what he should say to himabout the king, whatsoever it were. Whenhe came to Ahab, and he adjured him uponoath, to speak the truth to him, he said thatGod had shewn to him the Israelites runningaway, and pursued by the Syrians, and dis­persed upon the mountains by them, as arc £flocks of sheep dispersed when their shep­herd is slain. He said farther, that God sig­nified to him,J that those Israelites shouldreturn in peace to their own home, and thathe only should fall in the battle. WhenMicaiah had thus spoken, Ahab said to Je­hoshaphat, " I told thee a little while ago thedisposition of the man with regard to me, andthat he uses to prophesy evil to me." Uponwhich Micaiah replied, that he ought to hearall, whatsoever it be that God foretells; andthat in particular, they were false prophetswho encouraged him to make this war, inhope of victory; whereas he must fight and * Two hundred and eighty thousand, 2 Chron. xvii. 15. t 1 Kings xxii. 6. J Micaiah's answer to Ahab, inquiring of him the suc­cess of his intended expedition, is, Go, and prosper; forthe Lord shall deliver the city into the hands of the king,1 Kings xxii. 15. which does not at all contradict theother prophets, had it been spoken in earnest; but wehave good reason to believe, that the words were spokenironically, and in mockery to the promises which theother prophets made Ahab. Accordingly, we may oh- serve by Ahab's reply, that he suspected Micaiah's sin­cerity, and, either by his gesture or manner of speaking,gathered, that his meaning was to traduce these false pro­phets for their answers, so that Micaiah's answer is ineffect, as if he had said,—" Since thou dost not seek toknow the truth, but only to please thyself, go to thebattle, as all thy prophets advise thee; expect the successwhich they promise thee, and try the truth of their pre­dictions by thy dear bought experience." Pool's Jhmotations. B.