OCR Output 160 THE DECLINE AND FALL" "nefactor, who bestows upon you the corn, the cloathing, and the"money of the provinces. Be silent, or I shall no longer style you"soldiers, bnt citizens77, if those indeed who disclaim the laws of"Rome deserve to be ranked among the meanest of the people.*'His menaces inflamed the fury of the legion, and their brandishedarms already threatened his person. "Your courage," resumed theintrepid Alexander, " would be more nobly displayed in a field of"battle; me you may destroy, you cannot intimidate; and the"severe justice of the republic would punisli your crime and revenge"my death." The legion still persisted in clamorous sedition, whenthe emperor pronounced, with a loud voice, the decisive sentence,"Citizens! lay down your arms, and depart in peace to your re-"spective habitations.'' The tempest was instantly appeased; thesoldiers, filled with grief and shame, silently confessed the justice oftheir punishment and the power of discipline, yielded up their armsand military ensigns, and retired in confusion, not to their camp,but to the several inns of the city. Alexander enjoyed, duringthirty days, the edifying spectacle of their repentance; nor did herestore them to their former rank in the army, till he had punishedwith death those tribunes whose connivance had occasioned themutiny. The grateful legion served the emperor whilst living, andrevenged him when dead 7i.Defects of h'» The resolutions of the multitude generally depend on a moment;character. and the caprice of passion might equally determine the seditiouslegion to lay down their arms at the emperor's feet, or to plungethem into his breast. Perhaps if the singular transaction had beeninvestigated by the penetration of a philosopher, we should discoverthe secret causes that authorized the boldness of the prince and com­manded the obedience of the troops; and perhaps if it had beenrelated by a judicious historian, we should find this action, worthyof Cæsar himself, reduced nearer to the level of probability and thecommon standard of the character of Alexander Severus. The abi­ lities