OCR Output CHAT. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 233 "when the troops took the oath." But the contempt of'the gods, which reigns so triumphant in our days, wasat that time quite unknown. In these times, men didnot by artful interpretations, contrive to make oaths andIaws convenient for their own purposes, but suited theirpractice to their oaths and to the laws. The tribunes finding nowj that they could not preventthe consuls design,^ consulted'how to delay the army'smarch from the city, more especially, as it was rumour­ed, " That the augurs had been enjoined to attend at"the lake of Regillus. That the place was to be con-"•secrated ; where, the auspices once taken, the consulsmiglit treat wiih the people, in order to repeal, bytheir votes in the Comitia, all laws that had been ex­torted at Rome, by the violence of the tribunes. Thatthere the people would be entirely at the devotion ofthe consuls: the freedom of appeal* did not extendbeyond a mile without the city, and the jurisdiction"of the tribunes, being confmed to the same limits,"should they go out to the place ol rendezvous, they"would also, wiih the multitude, be subject to the au-"thority of the consuls." These considerations appeared terrible, but what struckthem most sensibly was, that Quinctius frequently de­clared, " That he" would hold no Comitia for electing"the consuls; that the state was too much distempered"for the application of ordinary remedies: That the"commonwealth stood in need of a dictator, who would"make all disturbers of the peace, feel the weight of an"authority, from which there was no appeal." CHAP. XXI. A compromise.—The Tribunes re-elected.' 1 HE senate were at this time assembled in the capi-tol. Thither ran the tribunes, with the multitude, in aconsternation, at their heels; Th.e people, with loudvoices, called sometimes upon the consuls, and some­times upon the fathers, to compassionate their case:but the consuls would listen to no intreaties, till thetribunes had promised to abide by whav the senate hould judge fit to be done. Theu he reported their