OCR Output +8o THE DECLINE AND FALL •of baptism, the guilt of their past conduct, for which the templesof the gods refused to grant them any expiation. But this reproach,when it is cleared from misrepresentation, contributes as much tothe honour as it did to the increase of the church 8|. The friendsof Christianity may acknowledge without a blush, that many ofthe -most eminent saints had been before their baptism the mostabandoned of sinners. Those persons, who in the world hadfollowed, though in an imperfect manner, the dictates of bene­volence and propriety, derived such a calm satisfaction from theopinion of their own rectitude, as rendered them much less sus­ceptible of the sudden emotions of shame, of grief, and of terror,which have given birth to so many wonderful conversions. Afterthe example of their Divine Master, the missionaries of the gospeladdressed themselves to men, and especially to women oppressed bythe consciousness, and very often by the effects, of their vices. Asthey emerged from sin and superstition to the glorious hope ofimmortality, they resolved to devote themselves to a life, not onlyof virtue, but of penitence. The desire of perfection became theruling passion of their foul; and, it is well known, that while reasonembraces a cold mediocrity, our passions hurry us, with rapid-violence, over the space which lies between the most oppositeextremes. Care of their When the new converts had been enrolled in the number of thefaithful, and were admitted to the sacraments of the church, theyfound themselves restrained from relapsing into their past disordersby another consideration of a less spiritual, but of a very innocentand respectable nature. Any particular society that has departedfrom the great body of the nation, or the religion to which itbelonged, immediately becomes the object of universal as well asinvidious observation. In proportion to the smallness of its num­bers, the character of the society may be affected by the virtuesand vices of the persons who compose it; and every member is en-7 gage^ ■f.'puution.