OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 205 'have no suspicion of him to his disadvantage. He also addedoaths and certain horrible curses upon himself, and supposed heshould be thereby believed in the points he wrote about to me. 21. But now another great number of the Galileans came to­gether again with their weapons, as knowing the man how wick­ed and how sadly perjured he was, and desired me to lead themagainst him, and promised me that they would utterly destroyboth him and GIschala. Hereupon I professed, that I was ob­liged to them for their readiness to serve me, and that I wouldmore than requite that their goodawill to me. However, I en­treated them to restrain themselves, and begged of them to giveme leave to do what I intended, which was to put an end to thesetroubles without bloodshed; and when I had prevailed with themultitude of the Galileans to let me do so, I came to Sepphoris. 22. But the inhhitants of this city having determined to con­tinue in their allegiance to the Romans, were afraid of my co­ming to them, and tried, by putting me upon another action, to di­vert me, that they might be freed from the terror they were in.Accordingly they sent to Jesus, the captain of those robbers whowere in the confines of Ptolemais, and promised to give him agreat deal of money, if he would come with those forces he hadwith him, which were in number eight hundred, and fight withus. Accordingly he complied with what they desired, upon thepromises they had made him, and was desirous to fall upon uswhen we were unprepared for him, and knew nothing of his co­ming beforehand. So he sent to me, and desired that I wouldgive him leave to come and salute me. When 1 had given himthat leave, which I did without the least knowledge of his treach­erous intentions beforehand, he took his band of robbers, andmade haste to come to me. Yet did not this his knavery suc­ceed well at last; for, as he was already nearly approaching, oneof those with him deserted him, and came to me, and told mewhat he had undertaken to do. When I was informed of this,I went into the market-place, and pretended to know nothing ofhis treacherous purpose. I took with me many Galileans thatwere armed, as also some of those of Tiberias ; and, when I hadgiven orders that all the roads should be carefully gardeud, Icharged the keepers of the gates to give admittance to none butJesus, when he came with the principal of his men, and to ex­clude the rest; and in case they aimed to force themselves in, touse stripes [in order to repel them]. Accordingly, those thathad received such a charge did as they were bidden, and Jesuscame in with a few others ; and when I had ordered him, to throvydown his arms immediately, and told him, that if he refused soto do, he was a dead man, he seeing armed men standing all round