OCR Output 342 eleazar's speeches. [b. vil die,1 as well as those were whom we have begotten ; nor is itin the power of the most happy of our race to avoid it. Butfor abuses and slavery, and the sight of our wives led awayafter an ignominious manner, with their children, these arenot such evils as are natural and necessary among men ; al­though such as do not prefer death before those miseries,when it is in their power so to do, must undergo even themon account of their own cowardice. We revolted from theRomans with great pretensions to courage; and when at thevery last they invited us to preserve ourselves, we would notcomply with them. Who will not, therefore, believe that theywill certainly be in a rage at us, in case they can take usalive ? Miserable will then be the young men who will bestrong enough in their bodies to sustain many torments;miserable also will be those of elder years, who will not beable to bear those calamities which young men might sustain.One man will be obliged to hear the voice of his son im­ploring help of his father, when his hands are bound. Butcertainly our hands are still at liberty, and have a sword inthem; let them, then, be subservient to us in our glorious de­sign ; let us die before we become slaves under our enemies,and let us go out of the world, together with our children andour wives, in a state of freedom. This is it that our lawscommand us to do; this it is that our wives and childrencrave at our hands; nay, God himself hath brought this ne­cessity upon us ; while the Romans desire the contrary, andare afraid lest any of us should die before we are taken. Letus, therefore, make haste, and, instead of affording them somuch pleasure as they hope for in getting us under theirpower, let us leave them an example which shall at oncecause their astonishment at our death, and their admirationof our hardiness therein." 1 Reland here seta down a parallel aphorism of one of the Jcwith Rabbins,— " We are born, that we may die, and die that we may live."