OCR Output 236 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. David, king of Judea; and tried his fortunein many battles, and particularly in the lastbattle at Euphrates, wherein he was beaten.He seems to have been the most excellent ofall their kings, in strength and manhood."Besides this, he says of his posterity, thatafter his death they succeeded one anotherin his kingdom, and in his name: where hethus speaks, "When Hadad was dead, hisposterity reigned for ten generations, each ofhis successors receiving from his father hisdominion and his name; as did the Ptolemiesin Egypt. But the third was the most pow­erful of them all; and was willing to avengethe defeat his forefather had received; so hemade an expedition against the Jews, andlaid waste the city which is now called Sa­maria." Nor did he err from the truth. Forthis is that Hadad who made the expeditionagainst Samaria, in the reign of Ahab, kingof Israel; concerning whom we shall speak indue place hereafter. Now when David had made an expeditionagainst Damascus, and the other parts ofSyria, and had brought it all into subjection,and had placed garrisons in the country, andappointed that they should pay tribute, hereturned home. He also dedicated to Godat Jerusalem the golden quivers, and the en-lire armour which the guards of Hadad usedto wear; which Shishak the king of Egypttook away when he fought with David'sgrandson Rehoboam; with a great deal ofother wealth which he carried out of Jeru­salem. However these things will come to beexplained in their proper places hereafter.Now as for the king of the Hebrews, he wasassisted by God, who gave him great successin his wars; and he made an expeditionagainst the best cities of Hadadezer, Betah,and Machon. So he took them by force, andlaid them waste. Therein was found a verygreat quantity of gold and silver, besides thatsort of brass which is said to be more valuablethan gold. Of which brass Solomon made that large vessel which was called the brazensea; and those most curious lavers, when hebuilt the temple of God. But when the king of Hamath was informedof the ill success of Hadadezer, and hadheard of the ruin of his army, he was afraidon his own account, and resolved to make aleague of friendship with David, before heshould come against him. So he sent to himhis son Joram, and professed that he owedhim thanks for fighting against Hadadezer,who was his enemy; and made a league withhim of mutual assistance and friendship. Healso sent him presents, vessels of ancientworkmanship, both of gold, silver, and brass.*So when David had made this league of mu­tual assistance with Toi, (for that was thename of the king of Hamath,) and had re­ceived the presents he sent him, he dismissedhis son with that respect which was due onboth sides. But then David brought thosepresents that were sent by him; as also therest of the gold and silver which he had takenof the cities of the nations, whom he had con­quered, and dedicated them to God. Nordid God give victory and success to him only,when he went to the battle himself, and ledhis own army; but he gave victory to Abishai,the brother of Joab, general of his forces,fover the Idumeans; and by him to David,when he sent him with an army into Idumea.For Abishai destroyed eighteen thousand ofthem in the battle. Whereupon the king ofIsrael placed garrisons through all Idumea,and received the tribute of the country, andof every head among them. Now David wasin his nature just, and made his determina­tions with regard to truth. He had for thegeneral of his whole army Joab; and he madeJehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, recorder.He also appointed Zadok, of the family ofPhineas, to be high-priest, together with Abi-athar; for he was his friend. He also madeSeisan the scribe, and committed the com­mand over the guards of his body to Benaiah,J * 1 Chron. xviii. 9, 10. t By this great victory over the Idumeans or Edomites,the posterity of Esau, and by the consequent tribute paidby that nation to the Jews, were the prophecies deliveredto Rebecca before Jacob and Esau were born; and byold Isaac before his death, that the elder, Esau, orthe Edomites, should serve the younger, Jacob, or theIsraelites; and Jacob, or the Israelites, should be Esau's,or the Edomites', lord, remarkably fulfilled. See VIII. 7. Gen. xxv. 23. and xxvii. 29, 37. and the Notes onI. 18. J The word in our translation, is recorder, which, inthe marginal note, is remembrancer, or writer of chroni­cles; an employment of no mean estimation in the easternworld, where it was customary with the kings to keepdaily registers of all the transactions of their reigns; anda trust, which however discharged to purpose, must belet into the true springs and secrets of action, and conse­