OCR Output 418 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book If. gotten, and the buildings they had burnt down, and proceededno farther. 7. But on the next day, which was the fifteenth of the monthLous, [Ab], they made an assault upon Antonia, and besiegedthe garrison which was in it two days, and then took the garri­son, and slew them, and set the citadel on fire; after which theyinarched to the palace, whither the king's soldiers were fled, andparted themselves into four bodies, and made an attack upon thewalls. As for those that were within it, no one had the courageto sally out, because those that assaulted them were so numerous,but they distributed themselves into the breast-works and tur­rets, and shot at the besiegers, whereby many of the robbers fellunder the walls; nor did they cease to fight one with anothereither by night or by day, while the seditious supposed that thosewithin would grow weary for want of food, and those withoutsupposed the others would do the like by the tediousness of thesiege. 8. In the mean time one Manahem, the son of Judas, that wascalled the Galilean ^who was a very cunning sophister, and hadformerly reproached the Jews under Cyrenius, that after Godthey were subject to the Romans,), took some of the men of notewith him, and retired toMassada, where he broke open King He­rod's armoury, and gave arms not only to his own people, but toother robbers also. These he made use of for a guard, and re­turned in the state of a king to Jerusalem; he became the leaderof the sedition, and gave orders for continuing the siege, but theywanted proper instruments, and it was not practicable to under­mine the wall, because the darts came down upon them from,above. But still they dug a mine from a great distance under oneof the towers, and made it totter, and having done that, they setfire on what was combustible, and left it, and when the founda­tions were burnt below, the tower fell down suddenly. Yet didthey then meet with another wall that had been built within, forthe besieged were sensible beforehand of what they were doing,and probably die tower shook as it was undermining; so theyprovided themselves of another fortification ; which, when thebesiegers unexpectedly saw, while they thought they had already-gained the place, they were under some consternation. However,those that were within sent to Manahem, and to the other lead*ers of the sedition, and desired they might go out upon a capitu­lation : this was granted to the king's soldiers, and their owncountrymen only, who went out accordingly ; but the Romansthat were left alon« were greatly dejected, for they were notable to force their way-through such a multitude ; and to desirethem to give them their right hand for their security, they thought