OCR Output 282 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. to act with energy and effect. The maritime towns, An-cona, Grotona, Centumcellas, resisted the assaults ofTotila. Sicily was reduced by the zeal of Artaban, andthe Gothic navy was defeated near the coast of the Ha-driatic. The two fleets were almost equal, forty-sevento fifty galleys: the victory was decided by the know­ledge and dexterity of the Greeks; but the ships were soclosely grappled, that only twelve of the Goths escapedfrom this unfortunate conflict. They affected to depre­ciate an element in which they were unskilled, but theirown experience confirmed the truth of a maxim, that themaster of the sea will always acquire the dominion ofthe land.' .:Character After the loss of Germanus, the nations were provok-d"tionXof ed to smile, by the strange intelligence, that the com-^*r*°snnBh mand of the Roman armies was given to a eunuch. Buta. d. 552. the eunuch Narsesf is ranked among the few who haverescued that unhappy name from the contempt and ha­tred of mankind. A feeble diminutive body concealedthe soul of a statesman and a warrior. His youth hadbeen employed in the management of the loom and dis­taff, in the cares of the household, and the service offemale luxury; but while his hands were busy, he se­cretly exercised the faculties of a vigorous and discerningmind. A stranger to the schools and the camp, hestudied in the palace to dissemble, to flatter, and to per­suade; and as soon as he approached the person of theemperor, Justinian listened with surprise and pleasure tothe manly counsels of his chamberlain and private trea­surer .* The talents of Narses were tried and improved e The third book of Procopius is terminated by the death of Germanus. (Add. lib.4. c. 23—26.) f Procopius relates the whole series of this second Gothic war and the victory ofNarses. (lib. 4. c. 21. 26—35.) A splendid scene! Among the six subjects of epicpoetry which Tasso revolved in his mind, he hesitated between the conquests of Italyby Belisarius and by Narses. (Hayley's Works, vol. 4. p. 70.) ■ ? The country of Narses is unknown, since he must not be confounded with thePersarmenian. Procopius styles him (Gotli. lib. 2. c. 13.) fiaa-tktiteqr fypfiumit TWfM*C3Paul Warnefrid (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 776.) Charlularius: Maroellinus adds the name ofCubicularius. In an inscription on the Salarian bridge he is entitled fix-consul, Ex-prteposilus, Cubiculi Patricius. (Maseou, Hist, of the Germans, lib. 13. c. 25.) The'law of Theodosiua against euuucbs was obsolete or abolished; (Annotation 20.) but