OCR Output METIIORA.METROPOLIS. 351 METIIORA (MtSopa, Anrian, Indie. 8), a small■lite in the centre of India, which was subject tothe peat tribe of the Prat.ii. It was situated near,if not upon, the Joinanes or Jumna (Plin. vi. 19.l 22), and has, with much probability, been as­sumed to be on the site of the present A Italia- bid. [v.] METHITUADES (Mc&n/pictoes), a group ofsmall is lands. lying between Nisaea, tlie port ofM _".m. and Salamis. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 19.) Strabodescribes them, without mentioning their names, asfive until islands, lying before Nisaea to a person■ailing into Attica (ix. p. 393). Stephanus B.(i. v.) loosely speaks of them as lying betweenAf.nfta and Attica. METHYMNA (Vl-h9vfiva. and on coins TAtBvfum,M.i ■....! j: Kik, Vir]Qvtxvaioi), a town in Lesbos,tbe most important next after Mytilene. It wasMtnated on the northern shore of the island, wherea channel of 60 stadia (Strab. xiii. p. 618) inter­vened between it and the coast of the mainlandnear Asks. One of the earliest notices of the Methymnaeans,is the mention of their conquest of Arisba, anotherUwn of Lesbos, and their enslaving of its citizens.(Herod, i. 151.) The territory of Methymna seemsto hare been contiguous to that of Mytilene, andthis may bare been one cause? of the jealousy be­tween the two cities. The power and fame ofMytilene was on the whole far greater; but in oneperiod of the history of Lesbos, Methymna enjoyedprater prosperity. She did not join the revolt oftbe other Lesbians from Athens in the PeloponnesianWar(Tbuciii.2,18 .and she was therefore exemptedfrom the severe punishment which fell on Mytilene.(Thoc.iii.50.) Hence she retained the old privilege offamishing: a naval contingent instead of a tribute inmoaey. (Thuc vi. 85. rii. 57.) Shortly before thebattle of Anrinusae. Methymna fell into the powerof the Lacedaemonians, and it was on this occasionthai the magnanimous conduct of Callicratidas pre­sented so remarkable a contrast to that of the Athe­nian* in reference to Mytilene. (Xen. Htllen. i. 6.§ U.) After this time Methymna seems to havelemne less and less important. It comes intonotice, however, in every subsequent period ofoutcry. It is mentioned in the treaty forced bytl* Komans (d. c 154) between Attalus II. andPnuiaa II. (Polyb. xxxiii. 11.) It is stated byLHy (xlr. 31) and by Pliny (v. 31) to have in-wprated the inhabitants of Axtissa with its own.Iu coins, both autonomous and imperial, are nu­merous. H was honourably distinguished [seeLjmos] for its resistance to the Mahomedaus, bothia tie 12th and 15th centuries; and it exists on the■une spot at the present day, under the name of.'/ iro. We have no information concerning the buildingsasd appearance of ancient Methymna. It evidentlyp**e*ed a good liarbour. Its chief fame was con­nected with the excellent wine produced in itsnejbbouruood. (Virg. Georg. ii. 90; Ovid, Art.-<«. i- 57; Hot. SaL ii. 8. 50.) Horace (Od. i. 17.jll jcilU Lesbian wine " innocens; " and Athenaeus(o- p. 45) applies the epithet tv<rr6naxos to a,r*-' Lesbian wine. Id another place (i. p. 32) he^•tnhei the medicinal effect of the wine of this■W (See also i. pp. 28,29; and Aul. Gell. xiii. 5.)H»y amy» (xiv. 9) that it had a salt taste, and ap-F^festly mentions this as a merit. Pausanias, in his•"wit of Delphi (x. 19), tells a story of some fishermen of Methymna dragging in their nets outof the sea a rude image of Bacchus, which wasafterwards worshipped. Methymna was the birthplace of the poet andmusician Arion. Myrsilus also, who is said to havewritten a history of Lesbos, is supposed to havebeen born here. [J. S. H-] COIN OF METHYMNA. METHYMNA (MijfliWO, a city in Crete, nearRhocca, which Aelian (iV. A. xiv. 20) mentions inconnection with a curious story respecting a remedyfor hydrophobia discovered by a Cretan fisherman.Mr. Pashley (7'rap. vol. ii. p. 40) considers that theremains near the chapel of flaghios Georghios, byNopia, on the extreme eastern edge of the plain ofKisarno-kasteli, represent Methymna, [K. B. J.] METHYDRIUM (M«0vo>0*': Kth. M*0i/&>«i/s),a town in central Arcadia, situate 170 stadia northof Megalopolis (Pans. viii. 35. § 5), obtained itsname, like Interamna, from being situated upon alofty height between the two rivers Maloetas andMylaon. (Paus. viii. 36. § 1.) It was founded byOrchomenus; but its inhabitants were removed toMegalopolis, upon the establishment of that city.It never recovered its former population, and ismentioned by Strabo (viii. p. 388) among the placesof Arcadia which had almost entirely disappeared.It continued, however, to exist as a village in thetime of Pausanias, who saw there a temple ofPoseidon Hippius upon the river Mylaon. He alsomentions, above the river Maloetas, a mountaincalled Thaumasium, in which was a cave whereRhea took refuge, when pregnant with Zeus. Atthe distance of 30 stadia from Methydrium was afountain named Nymphosia. (Paus. viii. 36. 1—3,comp. viii. 12. § 2, 27. §§ 4, 7.) Methydrium isalso mentioned in the following passages: Thuc. v. 58;Polyb. v. 10, 11,13: Plin. iv. 6. s. 10 ; Stepb. B.#. r. There is some difficulty in determining the exactsite of Methydrium. Some writers identify it withthe Hellenic remains called Palatia; but these arenot on a lofty hill between two rivers, but iu a lowsituation above the junction of the rivers on theright bank of one of them. Methydrium shouldrather be placed 45 minutes further, at the distanceof 10 minutes SE. of the village of Nimnitza, wherethere are some ancient ruins, one between twostreams, on a height below Pyrgo, otherwise calledPyrgdko. It is true that this also is not a loftyhill; but Pausanias uses the expression kuAwi orVyTjAo'r, and v^t}\6? has reference to KoAuWr,which means only a slight elevation. (Leake, Jforeo,vol. ii. p. 57; Pelopotinesiaca, p. 201; BoMaye,Recherche*, ifc. p. 151; Ross, Heisen %m Peloponnet^p. 116; Curtius. Peloponnesos, vol. i. p. 309.) METINA INSULA. [RnoPA.Nts.] MKT10SEDUM. [Mklodunum.] ME'TOKES (M«Vo^«s, Ptol, vi. 4. § 3). a branchof the great robber tribe of the Mardi, who weresettled in Persia. Their name is sometimes writtenMai-rope *. [V.] METRO'POLIS (MrrrpoVoAtr: Kth. Mvrpovo-Airnj). 1, A town in the Cayslrian plaiu ia