OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 357 undaunted courage in this conspiracy. So they were led awayto execution by the king's guards that stood about them, andpatiently underwent all the torments inflicted on them till theydied. Nor; was it long before that spy who had discovered themwas seized on by some of the people, out of the hatred they boreto him, and was not only slain by them, but pulled to pieceslimb from limb, and given to the dogs. This execution was seeiby many of the citizens, yet would not one of them discoveithe doers of it, till upon Herod's making a strict scrutiny afterthem, by bitter and severe tortures, certain women that weretortured, confessed whatthey had seen done; the authors of whichfact were so terribly punished by the king, that their entirefamilies were destroyed for this their rash attempt, yet did notthe obstinacy of the people, and that undaunted constancy theyshowed in the defence of their laws, make Herod any easier tothem, but he still strengthened himself after a more secure man足ner, and resolved to encompass the multitude every way, lestsuch innovations should end in an open rebellion. 5. Since, therefore, he had now the city fortified by the pa足lace in which he lived, and by the temple,- which had a strongfortress by it, called Antonia, and was rebuilt by himself, hecontrived to make Samaria a fortress for himself also against allthe people, and called it Sebaste, supposing that this place wouldbe a strong hold against the country, not inferior to the former.So he fortified that place, which was a day's journey distant fromJerusalem, and which would be useful to him in common, tokeep both the country and the city in awe. He also builtanother fortress for the whole nation; it was of old called Siiato'sTower, but was by him named Caesarea. Moreover, he choseout some select horsemen, and placed them in the great plain:and built [for them] a place in Galilee called Gaba, with He-sebonitis, in Perea. And these were the places which he parti足cularly built, while he always inventing somewhat farther for hisown secuiity, and encompassing the whole nation with guards,that they might by no means get from under his power, nor fallinto tumults, which they did continually upon any small com足motion; and that if they did make any commotions he mightknow of it, while some of his spies might be upon them fromthe neighbourhood, and might both be able to know what theywere attempting, and to prevent it. And when he went aboutbuilding the wall of Samaria, he contrived to bring thithermany of those that had been assisting to him in his wars, andmany of the people in that neighbourhood also, whom he madefellow-citizens with the rest. This he did out of an ambitiousdesire of building a temple, and out of a desire to in.-ike thecity more eminent than it hod been before, but principally be-