OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL tonally separated to act in the line, and to compose a part of the■wings of the army s°. The cavalry of the emperors was no longercomposed, like that of the ancient republic, of the noblest youthsof Rome and Italy, who, by performing their military service onhorseback, prepared themselves for the offices of senator and consul;and solicited, by deeds of valour, the future suffrages of theircountrymen 51. Since the alteration of manners and government,•the most wealthy of the equestrian order were engaged in the admi­nistration of justice, and of the revenue51; and whenever theyembraced the profession of arms, they were immediately intrustedwith a troop of horse, or a cohort of footTrajan and Hadrianformed their cavalry from the same provinces, and the fame class oftheir subjects, which recruited the ranks of the legion. The horseswere bred, for the most part, in Spain or Cappadocia. The Romantroopers despised the complete armour with which the cavalry of theEast was encumbered. Their more useful arms consisted in ahelmet, an oblong shield, light boots, and a coat of mail: A ja­velin, and a long broad sword, were their principal weapons ofoffence. The use of lances and of iron maces they seem to have bor­rowed.from the barbarians I+. The safety and honour of the empire was principally intrusted tothe legions, but the policy of Rome condescended to adopt everyuseful instrument of war. Considerable levies were regularly made•among the provincials, who had not yet deserved the honourabledistinction of Romans. Many dependent princes and communities,dispersed round the frontiers, were permitted, for a while, to holdtheir freedom and security by the tenure of military service 5S.Even select troops of hostile barbarians were frequently compelledor persuaded to consume their dangerous valour in remote climates,and for the benefit of the state 5°. All these were included underthe general name of auxiliaries; and however they might vary ac­cording to the difference of times and circumstances, their numbers were