OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 515 are put to death for their crimes, as eternal. Hence comestheir love of posterity and contempt of death. They derive their custom of hurying, instead of burning,their dead, from the Egyptians:' they have also the samecare of the dead with them, and the same persuasion aboutthe invisible world below: but of the gods above, their opinionis contrary to theirs. The Egyptians worship abundance ofanimals, and images of various sorts. The Jews have no notion of any more than one divinebeing,2 and that known only by the mind. They esteem suchto bo profane who frame images of gods, out of perishablematter, and in the shape of men. That this being is supremeand eternal, immutable and unperishable, is their doctrine.Accordingly, they have no images in their cities, much lessin their temples: they never grant this piece of flattery tokings, or this kind of honor to emperors.3 But because theirpriests, when they play on the pipe and the timbrels, wearivy round their head, and a golden vine' has been found intheir temple, some have thought that they worshipped ourfather Bacchus, the conqueror of the East; whereas the cere­monies of the Jews do not at all agree with those of Bacchus;for he appointed rites that were of a jovial nature, and fit forfestival?, while the practices of the Jews are absurd andsordid. Chap. VI.] The limits of Judea easterly are bounded byArabia: Egypt lies on the south: on the west are Phoenicia 1 This custom is at least as old among the Hebrews as the dnys of Abra­ham, and the cave of Muchpelab, long before the Israelites went into Egypt.Gen. xxiii. 1-20: xxv. 8-10. 2 These are valuable concessions, which Tacitus here makes, as to the un­spotted piety of the Jewish nation, in the worship of one infinite, invisibleGod, and absolute rejection of all idolatry, and of all worship of images,nay, of the image of the emperor Caius himself, or of affording it a place intheir temple. ' All these concessions were to be learned from Josephus, and almost onlyfrom him; out of whom, therefore, I conclude Tacitus took the finest partof his character of the Jews. * This particular fact, that there was a golden vine in the front of theJewish temple, was in all probability taken by Tacitus out of Josephus: butas the Jewish priests were never adorned with ivy, the signal of Bacchus,how Tacitus came to imagine this, I cannot tell.