OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. place was safe or sacred from their depredations ; to gra­tify either avarice or revenge, they profusely spilt theblood of the innocent; churches and altars were pollutedby atrocious murders; and it was the boast of the assas­sins, that their dexterity could always inflict a mortalwound with a single stroke of their dagger. The disso­lute youth of Constantinople adopted the blue livery ofdisorder; the laws were silent, and the bonds of societywere relaxed; creditors were compelled to resign theirobligations; judges to reverse their sentence; mastersto enfranchise their slaves; fathers to supply the extra­vagance of their children; noble matrons were prosti­tuted to the lust of their servants; beautiful boys weretorn from the arms of their parents; and wives, unlessthey preferred a voluntary death, were ravished in thepresence of their husbands." The despair of the greens,who were persecuted by their enemies, and deserted bythe magistrate, assumed the privilege of defence, perhapsof retaliation: but those who survived the combat weredragged to execution, and the unhappy fugitives escapingto woods and caverns, preyed without mercy on the so­ciety from whence they were expelled. Those ministersof justice who had courage to punish the crimes, and tobrave the resentment of the blues, became the victims oftheir indiscreet zeal: a prefect of Constantinople fledfor refuge to the: holy sepulchre; a count of the east wasignominiously whipped, and a governor of Cilicia washanged, by the order of Theodora, on the tomb of twoassassins whom he had condemned for the murder of hisgroom, and a daring attack upon his own life.b An as­piring candidate may be tempted to build his greatnesson the public confusion, but it is the interest as well asduty of a sovereign to maintain the authority of the * A wife (says Procopins), who was seized and almost ravished by a blue coat,threw herself into the Bosphorus. The hishops of the second Syria (Aleman. p. 26.)deplore a simitar saicide, the guilt or glory of female chastity, and name the heroine. *> The doubtful credit of Procopias (Anecdot. c. 17.) is supported by the less par­tial Evagrius, who confirms the fact, and specifies the names. The tragic fate of theprefect of Constantinople is related by John Malala. (tom. H. p. 139.)