OCR Output 52 SILVER. bite of dogs. It is very useful in burns, mixed with fat, litharge,8white lead,' and wax. It is roasted in furnaces, surrounded withballs of ox dung; it is then quenched in woman's milk, and groundin mortars with rain water. It is then poured, while turbid, intoa copper vessel, and purified with natron. The dross consistsprincipally of lead, and every thing which subsides in the mortaris thrown away. The vessel into which the turbid fluid had beenpoured is left for the space of a night covered with a linen cloth;on the following day all the fluid part is poured off, and removedby a sponge. That which subsides from the fluid is named theflower; it is dried in the sun, covered by a linen cloth, carebeing taken that it should not be rendered hard. It is then againrubbed in the mortar, and is divided into pastils. It is above allthings necessary not to roast it too much, lest it be converted intolead: some persons do not use dung, but fat, in this process;others again, after it has been pounded, put it into sacks made ofthree folds of linen, and plunge them into water; they throw awaythe dregs, and pouring off what passes through the linen, theycollect the substance, which subsides from the water; this theymake up into plaisters and applications for the eyes. 35. OF THE SCORIA OF SILVER; MEDICINES FROM IT. The Scoria of silver is called by the Greeks helcysma;1 it hasan astringent and refrigerant virtue. It is put into plaisters likeMolybdena,* (a substance which I shall speak of in the account * "Spuma argenti." This substance is described by Dioscorides, lib; v.cap. 54, under the name of AtQapyvpog, i. e. the calx of silver. Agricolawas acquainted with its real nature, as produced from the lead which ismixed with the silver, when a mixture of the two metals is exposed to ahigh temperature; De Nat. Foss. lib. ix. p. 354. 9 " Cerussa." The nature and manufacture of this substance are describedin book xxxiv. sec. 54; it appears to have been similar to our ceruse, thecarbonate of lead of the modern chemists. This process is described more atlength by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 57. 1 Supposed to be derived from cXkuu, traho, perhaps signifying what isdrawn from off the melted metal. For the meaning of the word scoria, seesec. 21. a Lib. xxxiv. sec. 53; the author employs this term as synonimous withGalena; see also Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 54. The word appears to havebeen generally employed by the ancients to designate a sulphuret or oxide oflead. The modern chemists have applied the term moh/bdena to a distinctmetal. Agricola says, what the Latins call plumbago, the Greek call noXvfi-Saiva, lib. x. p. 335; it appears to be an oxide of lead.