OCR Output HAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Jf> I his family and people, and checked the Franks in themidst of their victorious career. I am not desirous toprolong or repeatb this narrative of military events, theleast interesting of the reign of Theodoric; and shall becontent to add, that the Alemanni were protected/ thatan inroad of the Burgundians was severely chastised, andthat the conquest of Aries and Marseilles opened a freecommunication with the Visigoths, who revered himboth as their national protector, and as the guardian ofhis grandchild, the infant son of Alaric. Under this re­spectable character, the king of Italy restored the praeto­rian prefecture of the Gauls, reformed some abuses inthe civil government of Spain, and accepted the annualtribute and apparent submission of its military governor,who wisely refused to trust his person in the palace ofRavenna.d The Gothic sovereignty was established ,from Sicily to the Danube, from Sirmium or Belgradeto the Atlantic ocean; and the Greeks themselves haveacknowledged that Theodoric reigned over the fairestportion of the western empire." The union of the Goths and Romans might have fix- civil go-ed for ages the transient happiness of Italy; and the first iuif ac-of nations, a new people of free subjects and enlightened fj^^fj^soldiers, might have gradually arisen from the mutuallaws-emulation of their respective virtues. But the sublimemerit of guiding or seconding such a revolution, was notreserved for the reign of Theodoric; he wanted eitherthe genius or the opportunities of a legislator ;f and whilehe indulged the Goths in the enjoyment of rude liberty, * Vol. 4. c. 38. c Ennodius (p. 1610.) and Cassiodorius, in the royal name, (Var. 2. 41.) recordhis salutary protection of the Alemanni. « The Golhic transactions in Gaul and Spain are represented with some perplexityin Cassiodorius, (Var. 3. 32. 38.41.43, 44.5.39.) Jornandes, (c. 58. p. 698, 099.)and Procopius. Goth. lib. 1. c. 12. I will neither hear nor reconcile the long andcontradictory arguments of the abbe Dubos and the count de Buat about the wars ofBurgundy. e Theophanes, p. 113. 'Procopius affirms that no laws whatsoever were promulgated by Theodoric, andHie succeeding kings of Italy. (Goth. lib. 2. c. 6.) He must mean in the Gothic lan­guage. A Latin edict of Theodoric is still extant, in one hundred and ril'ty-fourarticles.