OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i8j "dignity. Let us elect two emperors, one of whom may con-"duct the war against the public enemy, whilst his colleague"remains at Rome to direct the civil administration. I cheerfully"expose myself to the danger and envy of the nomination, and"give my vote in favour of Maximus and Balbinus. Ratify my"choice, conscript fathers, or appoint in their place, others moreworthy of the empire." The general apprehension silenced thewhispers of jealousy; the merit of the candidates was universallyacknowledged; and the house resounded with the sincere acclama­tions, of " long life and victory to the emperors Maximus and"Balbinus. You are happy in the judgment of the senate; may"the republic be happy under your administration 46!" The virtues and the reputation of the new emperors justified the Their cha- P . . racters- most sanguine hopes of the Romans. The various nature of their talents seemed to appropriate to each his peculiar departmentof peace and war, without leaving room for jealous emulation. Bal­binus was an admired orator, a poet of distinguished fame, and awife magistrate, who had exercised with innocence and applause,the civil jurisdiction in almost all the interior provinces of theempire. His birth was noble *7, his fortune affluent, his mannersliberal and affable. In him, the love of pleasure was corrected by afense of dignity, nor had the habits of ease deprived him of acapacity for business. The mind of Maximus was formed in arougher mould. By his valour and abilities he had raised himselffrom the meanest origin to the first employments of the state andarmy. His victories over the Sarmatians and the Germans, theausterity of his life, and the rigid impartiality of his justice, whilsthe was præfect of the city, commanded the esteem of a people,whose affections were engaged in favour of the more amiable Bal­binus. The two colleagues had both been consuls, (Balbinus hadtwice enjoyed that honourable office) both had been named amongthe twenty lieutenants of the senate, and since the one was sixtyVol. I. B b and