OCR Output 1110 TAUMCA CHEKSONESUS. tain oil 3. The NW. portion of the low coun­try, or that which would lie to the W. of a linedrawn from the isthmus to the mouth of the riverAlma, consists of a sandy soil interspersed withsalt lakes, an evidence that it was at one timecovered by the sea (Pallas, lb. p. G05, Sec); butthe E. and S. part baa a fertile mould. The moun­tain chain (Taurici Monies) begins to rise towardsthe centre of the peninsula, gently at first on the N.,but increasing in height as the chain approaches thesea, into which it sinks steeply and abruptly. Hencethe cox^t at this part presents huge elitfs and preci­pices, and the sea is so deep that the lead ofteniinds no bottom at the distance of a mile or twofrom the shore. From these mountains, which ex­tend from Symbolon, or Balaclava, on the \V\, toTheodoaia, or Caffa, on the E., many bold promon­tories are projected into the sea, enduing betweenthem deep and warm valleys open to the S., andsheltered from the N. wind, where the olive and vineilourish, the apricot and almond ripen, and thelaurel creeps among the dark and frowning cliffs.The most remarkable moon taint of tiiis chain arethat anciently called the Cimmerium at the N.extremity, and the Trapezus at the S. (Strab.vii. p. ;j(K>.) The former, which is said to havederived its name from the Cimmerians, once do­minant in the Bosporus, is now called Agh'trmlich-Ihujhi. It lies nearly in the centre of the penin­sula, to the NW. of the ancient Theodosia, andnear the town of Eski-AVim, or Obi Crim. Somewriters, however, identify Cimmerium with MountOpouk. on the S. coast of the peninsula of Ktrtsch.(Ki.hler, Mini, de FA cad. de St. Peteisb. 1824, p.640, sei|. ; Dubois de Montperreux, Voyages, ifc.v. p. 253, acq.) But Trapezus is by far thehighest mountain of Tauricu. Kohl estimates itsheight at 5000 German feet (Keintn M Sudruts-land, i. p. 204); other authorities, make it rather ,less, or 4740 feet. (Neumann, Die Hellenen vn \Stytlunlande, p. 448.) According to Mr. Seymour,it is 5125 English feet high. (Kitssia on thelihwk Sea, p. 146.) Its form justifies itsancient name, and is said to resemble that of theTabic Mountain at the Cape of Good Hope (Kohl,lb.). A good idea of it may be obtained from thevignette in Pallas (ii. p. 196). As it stands some­what isolated from the rest of the chain, it pre­sents a very striking and remarkable object, es­pecially from the sea. At present it is calledTchatyr-Ihvjh, or the Tent Mountain. The othermountains seldom exceed 1200 feet. Their geo­logical structure presents many striking deviationsfrom the usual arrangement, especially in the ab­sence of granite. These anomalies are fullydesciibed by Pallai in his second volume oftravels. That part of Taurica which lay to theE. of them was vailed the Hugged, or Kocky, Cher-sonesus (jp-nKi-n, Herod. I. c.) It is in these moun­tains that the rivers which water the peninsulahare their sources, none of which, however, are con­siderable. They flow principally from the northernhide, from which they descend in picturesque cas­cades. Only two are mentioned by the ancients, theThapsil and the Istiianus. At present the mostfertile districts of Taurica are the calcareous valleysamong the mountains, which, though often coveredwith only a thin layer of mould, produce excellentwheat. The nature of the country, however, doesnot now correspond with the descriptions of the an­cients. Strabo(/. c.) praises its fertility in produc- TAURICA CFIEESOXfcTS. ing corn, especially in that part whkb ties hmmPanticnpaemn (Ke.rUch) and Tbtgdoei*which at present is a desolate and mawtoaciartna*.But this may probably be accounted for W U* phy­sical and poliiual revolutions which tbe cocEr* a»undergone. Taurica yielded a largetribeti e!*aalto Mithridatcs Eupator, King of Bosform. la*sovereign took much interest in pr-flwriar 2*ativution of the country, especially by the ftrees; but all his care to rear the laarel Jmyrtle in the neighbourhood of Pinikapm* »■to have been vain, though other trees pw fwhich required a mild temperature. (Fan. I59.) Wine was produced in abundance, m *lpresent day, and the custom mentioned WS(p. 307), of covering the vines with esrtk i"the winter, is still observed, though Faliaa cit unnecessary (loyoye*, <fc. ii. p. 444.) The interest connected with the aaoeat anfcfflthe Tanric Chersonese is chiefly derrreitnc'^'iritime settlements of the Greeks, and <nr»thus principally directed to the coasts. Allof the barbarous people who inhabited the ]at the time when these settlements *given in a separate article [Tauw}.like those of the Euxine in general, wereeby the Milesiaus, who planted eonx fDies upon it. Besides these we find a Itarualestablished near the site of the prej*nt .and, if we may believe Aeschines {contra i141, sq.). the Athenians once possessed the lNymphaeon on the Cimmerian Bosporus, ■'cording to him, was betrayeU to the fby Gvlon, the maternal grandfather of I(Cf« Crateros in i! i; :i' ■ ■ $. e. Nsjinterior of the peninsula was bat little iancients, and we shall therefore best <connection with it by taking a sorrey iWe shall begin on the XYY. side, aftCarcina or Tamyraca, which has been iscribed [Cakcuca; Tamvraca]. Fnthe peninsula stretches to its most iCape Tardtan, which presents some kafjk 1but to the S. of TarcJ$an the coat tnldead level as far as the river Aim*, w Iwhich it again begins to rise in high chaa.\V. coast, however, presents no place ofancient history till we come to its extrapoint, where a bold plateaa of hu'.swesterly direction into the sea. Ontract is divided fiom the rest of tfae Ideep and broad valley, into which itdeclivities. The harbour of SrbaAy^ t*of' Aktiar) on the N., which bites into tat 1about 4 miles in a SE. direction, andclaca on the S. coast of the ]up towards the N.. furm anbreadth, according to Strabo (p. 30$ \ <or 5 miles. This measurementClarke (Trac. ii. p. 219), who,how»rw,to have been guided by his eye; farrather more, or about 6 nnJes. The S. <little peninsula formed by thisseveral promontories and tmall b*ys, ifrom 500 to 700 feet in heightSo barren a spot presented;Milesians, the chief colonisers of the Jmore hardy race of emigrants, fnam that 1of Ueracleia iu Pontus, found a neand founded there the town of Ch/. c). We learn from Pliny (iv. 12. v S*> |