OCR Output A.D. 19.] ~ OF TACITUS. 125 peror could prejudge the cause : the guilt or the in­nocence of men must arise out of the facts. He add­ed, that Rhescuporis would do well to release hisnephew^ and make the best of his way to Rome, inorder to fix the criminality where it ought to fall. Aletter to this effect from the emperor was forwarded tothe Thracian king of Latinius Pandus, prsetor of My-sia. A band of soldiers went at the same time, todemand that Cotys should be delivered into their cus­tody. Rhescuporis, divided between hope and fear,fluctuated for some time : he choose, at length, ratherto answer for an actual crime, than for the bare inten­tion. He murdered Cotys, and spread a report thathe died by his own hand. Tiberius heard the newswithout emotion, determined still to pursue his planof fraud and treachery. Latinius Pandus died in theinterval. Rhescuporis had always represented himas his inveterate enemy, but the government of Mysiabeing now vacant, Tiberius gave the administrationof the province to Pomponius Flaccus, a man of mili­tary experience, and upon the best terms with Rhes-i cuporis. A friend, he knew, might prove in the endthe most fatal enemy. That consideration determinedlis choice. LXVII. Flaccus, without loss of time, arrived inThrace. He found Rhescuporis in a,state of violentagitation, conscious of his guilt, and overwhelmedwith doubt and fear. He soothed him with graciouswords, and by plausible promises inveigled him tohazard his person within the lines of a Roman garri­son. Pretending there to do honour to the prince, heappointed a guard to attend him. The tribunes andcenturions enticed him to go forward under their pro­tection; till having drawn him a considerable way,they avowed their purpose, and Rhescuporis foundthat he was a prisoner in close custody. Ho wasconducted to Rome, where the widow of Cotys ac­cused him before the senate. His guilt was manifest ,.the senate decreed that he should pass the remainderof his days at a distance from his dominions. Thekingdom of Thrace was once more divided. Rha3-metaloes, son of the deposed king, and always adverse L2