OCR Output 6 THE DECLINE AND FALL dred miles in circumference. Its natural bqundaries were theNiester, the Teyss, or Tibiscus, the Lower Danube, and the EuxineSea. The vestiges of a military road may still be traced from thebanks of the Danube to the neighbourhood of Bender, a placefamous in modern history, and the actual frontier of the Turkishand Ruffian empires ,s.Conquests of Trajan was ambitious of fame; and as long as mankind shall Trajan in the . ,„ east. continue to bestow more liberal applause on their destroyers than on their benefactors, the thirst of military glory will ever be thevice of the most exalted characters. The praises of Alexander,transmitted by a succession of poets and historians, had kindled adangerous emulation in the mind of Trajan. Like him the Romanemperor undertook an expedition against the nations of the east, buthe lamented with a sigh that his advanced age scarcely left him anyhopes of equalling the renown of the son of Philip". Yet thesuccess of Trajan, however transient, was rapid and specious. Thedegenerate Parthians, broken by intestine discord, fled before hisarms. He descended the river Tigris in triumph, from the moun­tains of Armenia to the Persian gulph. He enjoyed the honour ofbeing the first, as he was the last, of the Roman generals, whoever navigated that remote sea. His fl eets ravaged the coasts ofArabia; and Trajan vainly flattered himself that he was approach­ing towards the confines of India *\ Every day the astonishedsenate received the intelligence of new names and new nations, thatacknowledged his sway. They were informed that the Kings ofBosphorus, Colchos, Iberia, Albania, Osrhoene, and even the Par­thian monarch himself, had accepted their diadems from the handsof the emperor; that the independent tribes of the Median andCarduchian hills had implored his protection, and that the richcountries of Armenia, Mesopotamia, and Assyria, were reduced in­to the state of provinces*'. But the death of Trajan soon cloudedthe splendid prospect; and it was justly to be dreaded, that so many distant