OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 197 ninety-three bishops against the heresy of the Icono­clasts. With their consent he pronounced a generalexcommunication against all who by word or deedshould attack the tradition of the fathers and the imagesof the saints; in this sentence the emperor was tacitlyinvolved/ but the vote of a last and hopeless remon­strance may seem to imply that the anathema was yetsuspended over his guilty head. No sooner had theyconfirmed their own safety, the worship of images, andthe freedom of Rome and Italy, than the popes appearto have relaxed of their severity, and to have sparedthe relics of the Byzantine dominion. Their moderatecounsels delayed and prevented the election of a newemperor, and they exhorted the Italians not to separatefrom the body of the Roman monarchy. The exarchwas permitted to reside within the walls of Ravenna, acaptive rather than a master; and till the imperial co­ronation of Charlemagne, the government of Rome andItaly was exercised in the name of the successors ofConstantine." Republic r"-1^e liberty of Rome, which had been op-of Home, pressed by the arms and arts of Augustus, wasrescued, after seven hundred and fifty years of servi­tude, from the persecution of Leo the Isaurian. By theCaesars, the triumphs of the consuls had been annihi­lated: in the decline and fall of the empire, the godTerminus, the sacred boundary, had insensibly recededfrom the ocean, the Rhine, the Danube, and the Eu­phrates: and Rome was reduced to her ancient terri­tory from Viterbo to Terracina, and from Narni to the 'Yet Leo was undoubtedly comprised in the si quis .... imaginum aacraram.... destructor.... extiterit sit extorris a corpore D. N. Jesu Christi vel todusecclesiae imitate. The canonists may decide whether the guilt or the name consti­tutes tbe excommunication; and the decision is of the last importance to theirsafety, since, according to the oracle, (Gratian Cans. 33. p. 5. c. 47. apud Span-helm, Hist. Imag. p. 113.) homicidas non esse qui excommunicates trucidant. Compescuit tale consilium Pontifex, sperans conversionem principle. (Ana-Mas, p. 156.) Sed ne desisterent ab amore et fide R. J. admonebat. (p. 157.)The popes style Leo and Constantine Corpronymus, Imperatores et Domini, withthe strange epithet of Piiisimi. A famous mosaic of the Lateran (A. D. 798.) re­presents Christ, who delivers the keys to St. Peter and the banner to Constan­tine V. (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 337.)