OCR Output 328 MASADA AND THE SICARII. [B. VII. evil deeds were then left undone; nor could any one so muchas devise any bad thing that was new, so deeply were theyall infected, and strove with one another in their singlecapacity, and in their communities, who should run thegreatest lengths in impiety towards God, and in unjust ac­tions towards their neighbors, the men of power oppressingthe multitude, and the multitude earnestly laboring to destroythe men of power. The one part were desirous of tyrannizingover others, and the rest of offering violence to others, andof plundering such as were richer than themselves. Theywere the Sicarii who first began these transgressions, andfirst became barbarous towards those allied to them, and leftno words of reproach unsaid, and no works of perdition un­tried, in order to destroy those whom their contrivancesaffected. Yet did John demonstrate by his actions that theseSicarii were more moderate than he was himself; for he notonly slew all such as gave him good counsel to do what wasright, but treated them worst of all, as the most bitter enemiesthat he had among all the citizens; nay, he filled his entirecountry with ten thousand instances of wickedness, such as aman, who was already hardened sufficiently in his impietytowards God, would naturally do; for the food was unlawfulthat was set upon his table, and he rejected those purificationsthat the law of his country had ordained: so that it was nolonger a wonder if he, who was so mad in his impiety towardsGod, did not observe any rules of gentleness and commonaffection towards men. Again, therefore, what mischief wasthere which Simon the son of Gioras did not do ? or whatkind of abuses did he abstain from, as to those very free menwho had set him up for a tyrant ? What friendship orkindred were there that did not make him more bold in hisdaily murders ? for they looked upon the doing of mischief tostrangers only as a work beneath their courage, but thoughtthat their barbarity towards their nearest relations would bea glorious demonstration thereof. The Idumeans also strovewith these men which should be guilty of the greatest mad­ness ; for they [all,] vile wretehes as they were, cut thethroats of the high-priests, that so no part of a religious