OCR Output 142 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773 It does not appear, either in the historians of thetime, or in the public journals, that Antonia, the mo­ther of Germanicus, took any part in the funeral ce­remony. Agrippina, Drusus, Claudius, and the restof the prince's relations, are registered by name; butof Antonia no mention is made. She was probablyhindered from attending by want of health, or thesensibility of a mother might be unequal to so severea trial. To speak my own opinion, I am inclined tobelieve that nothing but the emperor and his mothercould restrain her from the last human office to herson. If all three absented themselves, equal afflictionmight be inferred; and, the uncle and grandmothermight be supposed to find a precedent in the conductof the mother. IV. The day on which tho remains of Germanicuswere deposited in the tomb of Augustus, was remark­able for sorrow in various shapes. A deep and mourn­ful silence prevailed, as if Rome v/as become a desert;and, at intervals, the general groan of a distractedmultitude broke forth at once. The streets werecrowded: the Field of Mars glittered with torches:the soldiers were underarms; themagistrates appearedwithout the ensigns of their authority; and the peo­ple stood ranged in their several tribes. All, withone voice, despaired of the commonwealth; they spoketheir minds without reserve, in the anguish of thoirhearts forgetting the master that reigned over them.Nothing, however, touched Tiberius so near, as thedecided affection of the people for Agrippina, whowas styled the ornament of her country, the onlyblood of Augustus, and the last remaining model ofancient manners. With hands upraised, the peopleinvoked the gods, imploring them to protect the chil­dren of Germanicus from the malice of perniciousenemies. V. There were at that time men of reflection whothought the whole of the ceremony short of that fu­neral pomp which the occasion required. The mag­nificence displayed in honour of Drusus, the father ofGermanicus, was put in contrast to the present fru­gality. " Augustus, in the depth of winter, went as