OCR Output 238 • THE DECLINE AND FALL \ Libanus. John Maron, one of the most learned and popular of the monks, as­sumed the character of patriarch of Antiooh; his nephew Abraham, at the headof the Maronites, defended their civil and religious freedom against the tyrants ofthe east. The son of the orthodox Constantino pursued, with pious hatred, apeople of soldiers, who might have stood the bulwark of his empire against thecommon foes of Christ and of Rome. An army of Greeks invaded Syria; themonastery of St. Maron was destroyed with fire; the bravest chieftains were be­trayed and murdered, and twelve thousand of their followers were transplanted tothe distant frontiers of Armenia and Thrace. Yet the humble nation of the Ma­ronites has survived the empire of Constantinople, and they still enjoy under theirTurkish masters, a free religion, and a mitigated servitude. Their domestic go­vernors are chosen among the ancient nobility; the patriarch, in his monastery of( Canobin, still fancies himself on the throne of Antioch; nine bishops compose hissynod, and one hundred and fifty priests, who retain the liberty of marriage, areintrusted with the care of one hundred thousand souls. Their country extendsfrom the ridge of mount Libanus to the shores of Tripoli; and the gradual descentaffords, in a narrow space, each variety of soil and climate, from the Holy Cedars,erect under the weight of snow,(l) to the vine, the mulberry, and the olive treesof the fruitful valley. In the twelfth century, the Maronites, abjuring the Mono-thelite error, were reconciled to the Latin churches of Antioch and Rome, (2)and the same alliance has been frequently renewed by the ambition of the popesand the distress of the Syrians. But it may reasonably be questioned, whethertheir union has ever been perfect or sincere; and the learned Maronites of thecollege of Rome havei vainly laboured to absolve their ancestors from the guilt ofheresy and schism. (3) IV. Since the age of Constantine, the Armenians(4) had signalized their at­tachment to the religion and empire of the Christian's. The disorders of theircountry, and their ignorance of the Greek tongue, prevented their clergy from as­sisting at the synod of Chalcedon, and they floated eighty-four years,(5) in a stateof indifference or suspense, till their vacant faith was finally occupied by the mis­sionaries of Julian of Halicarnassus,(6) who, in Egypt, their common exile, hadbeen vanquished by the arguments or the influence of his rival Severus, the Mo-nephysite patriarch of Antioch. The Armenians alone are the pure disciples ofEutyches, an unfortunate parent, who has been renounced by the greater part ofhis spiritual progeny. They alone persevere in the opinion, that the manhood ofChrist was created, or existed without creation, of a divine and incorruptible sub­stance. Their adversaries reproach them with the adoration of a phantom; andthey retort the accusation, by deriding or execrating the blasphemy of the Jaco­bites, who impute to the Godhead the vile infirmities of the flesh, even the natu­ral effects of nutrition and digestion. The religion of Armenia could not derivemuch glory from the learning or the power of its inhabitants. The royalty-expired with the origin of their schism; and their Christian kings, who aroseand fell in the thirteenth century on the confines of Cilicia, were the clients of theLatins and the vassals of the Turkish sultan of Iconium. The helpless nation has (1) In the last century twenty large cedars still remained, (Voyage de la Roque, torn. i. p. 68—76.) at presentthey are reduced to four or five. (Volney, torn. i. p. 264.) These trees so famous in Scripture, were guarded,by excommunication; the wood was sparingly borrowed for small crosses, &c. an annual mass was chanted un­der their shade; and they were endowed by the Syrians with a sensitive power of erecting their branches to re­pel the snow, to which Mount Libanus is less faithful than it is painted by Tacitus; inter ardores opaeum fiduui-que nivibus—a daring metaphor! (Hist. 5,6.) (2) The evidence of William of Tyre (Hist. iirGestis Dei per Francos, lib. xxii. c. S. p. 1022.) is copied or con­firmed by Jacques de Vitra. (Hist. Hierosolym. lib. ii. c. 77. p. 1093, 1094.) But this unnatural league expiredwith the power of the Fianks;and Abnlpharagius (who died in 12S6) considers the Maronites as a sect of Mo-nothelites. (Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 292.) .(3) I find a description and history of the Maronites in the Voyage de la Syrie et du Mont Liban par laRoque. (2 vols, in 12mo. Amsterdam, 1723, particularly torn. i. p. 42—47. p. 174—184. torn. ii. p. 10—120.) Illthe ancient part, he copies the prejudices of the Nairon and the other Maronites at Rome, which Assemannusis afraid to renounce, and ashamed to support. Jablonski, (Instilut. Hist. Christ, tom.iii. p. 186.) Nkhuhr,(Voyage de 1'Arabie, &c. torn. ii. p. 346. 370—381.) and, above all, the judicious Volney, (Voyage en F.gypte eten Syne, torn. ii. p. 8—31. Paris, 17870 may be consulted. -(4) The religion of the Armenians is briefly described by La Croze. (Hist, du Christ, de 1'Ethiope et deI'Armeme, p. 269—402.) He refers to the great Armenian History of Galanus, 3 vols, in folio, Rome, 1650—1661.) and commends the stale of Armenia in the third volume of the Nouveanx Mcmoires des Missions dnLevant. The work of a Jesuit must have sterling merit when it is praised by La Croze. (5) The schism of the Armenians is placed eighty-four years after the council of Chalcedon. (Pagi. Critics,ad A. D. 535.) It was consummated at the end of sev«nteen years; and it is from the year of Christ 552 thatwe date the era of the Armenians. (PArt de verifier les Dates, p.35.) (6) The sentiments and success of Julian of Halicaniassus may be seen in Liberatus, (Brev. c. 19.) Renau-dot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 132.-303.) and Aoemannui. (Bibliot. Orient, tott. ii. DJswoat. de Mwrophysiiej,