OCR Output ICTODURUM.IDALIA, IDALIUM. 13 Probahlv, however, there is a confusion between theIsle of Wight, the Isle of Portland, the Scilly Isle*,and the isle just mentioned; since the name is sus­piciously like Vectu, the physical conditions heiugdifferent. This view is confirmed by the text ofPliny (iv. 30), wiio writes, "Timaeus historicus aBritannia introrsns sex dierum navigations abessedicit insulam Mictim in qua candidum plumbumprareniat; ad earn BritAnos vitilibus navigiis coriocircuinsutis navigare." [Ii. G. L. 1 ICTODURUM, in Gallia. The Antonine Itin.places Caturiges (Charges') on the road betweenEbrodunum (Embrun) and Vapincnm (Gap); andthe Table adds Ictodurum between Caturigomagus,which is also Charge; and Vapincum. We mayinfer from the name that Ictodurum is some streambetween Charges and Gap; and the Table placesit half-way. The road distance is more than thedirect line. By following the road from eitherof these places towards the other till we come tothe stream, we shall ascertain its position. D'An-ville names the small stream the Vence; andWidckenaer names the site of Ictodurum, LaBastide VicUle. [G. L.] ICULISMA, a place in Gallia, mentioned by Au-sonius (Ep. xv. 22) as a retired and lonely spotwhere his friend Tetradius, to whom he addressesthis poetical epistle, was at one time engaged inteaching: — "Quondam docendi munere adstrictum graviIculisma cum te absconderct." It is assumed to be the place called Civitas Etolis-mensium in the Notitia Prov. Gall., which is Atvjou-Umt, in the French department of Charenle, on theriver Charente. [G.L.] ICL'S ("hcos: Eth.'lmos), one of the group ofislands off the coast of Magnesia in Thessaly, lay nearPeparethus, and was colonised at the same time by theCnouians of Crete. (Scymn. Chius, 582; Strab. ix.p. 436; Appian, B. C. v. 7.) The fleet of Attalusand the Ithodians sailed past Seyms to Icus. (I.iv.xxxi. 45.) Phanodemus wrote an account of thisinsignificant island. (Steph. B. s. v.) It is nowcalled Sarakuio. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii.p. 312.) IDA IDAEUS MONS (r, "IS», ISa: Ida), arange of mountains of Pbrygia, belonging to the sys­tem of Mount Taurus. It traverses western Mysiain many branches, whence it was compared by theancients to the scolopendra or milliped (Strab. xiii.p. 583), its main branch extending from the south­east to the north-west; it ia of considerable height,the highest point, called Gargarus or Gargaron,rising about 4650 feet above the level of the sea.The greater part is covered with wood, and Con­tains the sources of innumerable streams and manyrivers, whence Homer (IL viii. 47) calls the moun­tain roAwriSaf. In the Homeric poems it is alsodescribed as rich in wild beasts. (Comp. Strab.xiii. pp. 602, 604 ; Horn. II. ii. 824, vi. 283, viii.170, xi. 153, 196; Allien, xv. 8; Hor. Od. iii. 20.15; PtoL v. 2. § 13; Plin. v. 32.) The highlandsabout Zeleia formed the northern extremity of MountIda, while Lectum formed its extreme point in thesouth-west. Two other subordinate ranges, partingfnan the principal summit, the one at Cape Khoe-teum, the other at Sigeuin, may be said to enclosethe territory of Troy in a crescent; while anothercentral ridge between the two, separating the valleyof the Scamander from that of the SimoU, gave to the whole the form of the Greek letter t. (Demetr.ap. Strab. xiii. p. 597.) The principal rivers ofwhich the sources are in Mount Ida, are the Siniois,Scamander, Granicus, Aesepus, Rhodius, Caresus,and others. (Horn. II xii. 20, foil.) The highestpeak, Gargarus, affords an extensive view over theHellespont, Propontis, and the whole surroundingcountry. Besides Gargarus, three other high peaksof Ida are mentioned: viz. Cotylus, about 3500 feethigh, and about 150 stadia above Scepsis; Pytna;and Ditto. (Strab. xiii. p. 472.) Timosthenes (ap.Steph. B. t. v. ,AAc{<u'5>«ia) and Strabo (xiii. p.606) mention a mountain belonging to the range ofIda, near Antandrus, which bore the name of Alex­andria, where Paris (Alexander) was believed tohave pronounced his judgment as to the beanty ofthe three goddesses. (Comp. Clarke's Travels, ii.p. 134; Hunt's Journal in Walpole's Turkey, i. p.120; Cramer's Asia Minor, i. 120.) [L. S.] IDA 0*J. PtoL iii. 17. § 9 ; Pomp. Mela, ii. 7.§ 12; Plin. iv. 12, xvi. 33 ; Virg. Aen. iii. 105;Solin. iig Avien. 676; Prise 528), the central andloftiest point of the mountain range which tra­verses the island of Crete throughout the whololength from W. to E. In the middle of the island,where it is broadest (Strab. x. pp. 472, 475, 478),Mt. Ida lifts its head covered with snow. (Thec-phrast. II. P. iv. 1.) The lofty summits termi­nate in three peaks, and, like the main chain ofwhich it is the nucleus, the offshoots to the N. slopegradually towards the sea, enclosing fertile plainsand valleys, and form by their projections the nu­merous bays and gulfs with which the coast is in­dented. Mt. Ida, now called PsUoriti, sinks downrapidly towards the SE. into the extensive plainwatered by the Lethaeus. This side of the mountain,which looks down upon the plain of Mesara, is co­vered with cypresses (comp. Theophrast. de Vent.p. 405; Dion. Perieg. 503; Eustath. ad. loo.), pines,and junipers. Mt. Ida was the locality assigned forthe legends connected with the history of Zeus, andthere was a tavern in its slopes sacred to that deitv.(Diod. Sic. v. 70.) The Cretan Ida, like its Trojan namesake, wasconnected with the working of iron, and the IdaeanDactyls, the legendary discoverers of metallurgy, areassigned sometimes to the one and sometimes to theother. Wood was essential to the operations ofsmelting and forging; and the word Ida, an appella­tive for any wood-covered mountain, was used per­haps, like the German berg, at once far a mountainand a mining work. (Kenrick, Aegypt of Herodotus,p. 278; Hock, Kreta, vol. i. p. 4.) [E. B. J.] I'DACUS ("ISami), a town of the ThracianChersonese, mentioned by Thucydides (viii. 104) inhis account of the manoeuvres before the battle ofCynossema, and not far from Akrhiax a. Althoughnothing whatever is known of these places, yet. asthe Athenians were sailing in the direction of thePropontis from the Aegaean, it would appear thatIdacus was nearest the Aegaean, and Arrhiana fur­ther up the Hellespont, towards Sestus and the Pro­pontis. (Arnold, ad loc.) [E. B. J.] IDALIA, IDA'LIUM ('ISoAiov: Eth. 'liaKtvs,Steph. B.; Plin. v. 31), a town in Cyprus, adjoiningto which was a forest sacred to Aphrodite; the poe;awho connect this place with her worship, give no in­dications of the precise locality. (Theocr. Id. xv.100; Virg. Aen. i. 681, 692, x. 51; Catull. fel. etThet. 96; Propert. ii. 13; Lucan, viii. 17.) Engel(Kypros, vol. i. p. 153) identifies it with Dalin, de-