OCR Output VADAVEHO. 1253 VALDASUS. tim nilh a small but secure port about 4 miles N.at \'aJo. Livy indeed mentions Savo (undoubtedlythe Mine with Sarona) aa a sen-port town of theI.ijrnriana, where Mago established himself duringthe Second Punic War (Liv. xxviii. 46) ; but themaie dues not occur again in any writer, andhence Cluverius supposed that tilts was the placeafterwards called Sabbata. There seems, however,no doubt that Sabbata or Sabatia, Vada Sabbata, orV*is Sabatia, and Vada simply (as the name issntten by Cicero), are all only different forms of thourn* name, and that the Roman town of Vada waslihuted on, or very near, the same site as the pre-*-iit I'udo, a lonp straggling fishing village, the bayat which still afford* an excellent roadstead. The-ictrnctive epithet of Sabbata or Sabatia was evi-'1-r.ilr derived from its proximity to the originalLibrarian town of Savo. [K. H. B.] VADA'VERO. a mountain near Bilbihs in the>rritory of the Celtiberi, in Hispania Tarraconensis.I: soprars to be mentioned only by Martial (i. 50. 6),» U characterises it by the epithet of " sacred," andaitrrts to its rugged character. [T. H. I).] VADA VOLATERRANA. [Vouatebrak]. VADICAJ&U (OvaSMdo-trioi), a people of GalliaI.u^rianensU, whom Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 16) places ont.ir borders of Uelgica, and next to the Meldae. He^■m^tis to the Vadicassii a city Noeotnagns. IVAu-riile conrlodea that following Ptolemy's data we may;.lice his Vadicassii in VaioU, which is betweenM'iimz and Soutoru. He remarks that \'aloi$ isVulitus in the capitularies of Charles the Bald, andVidensis in the later acts. Other geographers haveAiuVrent opinions. In many of the editions of Pliny18) we find enumerated " Andegavi, Vidurasses,Vitdi<pcaases, Unelli;" but only one MS. has " Vadio-"^vea," and the rest have Bodiocasses or Bodicasses,ehirh we must take to be the true reading, and theyto be the same as the Baiocassks. (D'An-rille. Notiet. 4c.; Ukert, GaUien.) [G. L.] VADIMO'XIS LACUS (v OuiXfutr Xifirn, Po-> b.: Laghetto di Bassano), a small lake of Etruria,«»rai tbe Citninian hills and the Tiber, celebratedn histury as the scene of two successive defeats ofi<e combined Etruscan forces by the Romans. Inl:r first of these battles, which was fought in 8. c.Ht9. tbe Etruscans had raised a chosen army, enrollednth peculiar solemnity (lege sacrata) ; but thoughhey fought with the utmost valour and obstinacy,hey sustained so severe a defeat at the hands of thoi.Kiian Consul Q. Fabius Maximus, that, as Livy•marks, this disastrous day first broke the power of.cruris (Liv. ix. 39). The second battle waswgbt near 30 years later (n. c. 283), in which theiited forces of the Etruscans and Gauls were totally•-(rated by tlieconsul P.Cornelius Dolabclla. (Polyb.. 20 ; Eutrop. ii. 10 ; Flor. i. 13.) But thoughhas celebrated in hbtory, the Vadimonian lake isrery trifling sheet of water, in fact, a mere poolr ptagraut pond, now almost overgrown with reedsi.'i bulrushes. It was doubtless more extensive inorient times, though it could never have been ofin importance, and scarcely deserves the name of aike But it is remarkable that the younger PUnyi one of his epistles describes it as a circular basinfounding in Moating islands, which have now allisappeared, and probably have contributed to fill up.e ancient basin. Its waters are whitish and highlyilphureoos, resembling, in this respect, the Aquaejbulae near Tibur, where the phenomenon of float-„• uJanda sull occasionally occurs. (Plin. Ep. viii. 20.) It enjoyed the reputation, probably on accountof this peculiar character, of being a sacred lake. Butthe apparent singularity of its having been twice thescene of deceive conflicts is sufficiently explainedby its situation just in a natural jiass between theTiber and the wooded heights of the Ciminian forest,which (as observed by Mr. Dennis) must alwaysha%'e constituted a natural pass into the plains ofCentral Etruria. The lake itself, which is nowcalled the Laghetto di Batsano from a neightiouringvillage of that name, is only a very short distancefrom the Tiber, and about 4 miles above Orte, theancient Horta. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. i. pp. 167—170.) [E. H.B.J VAGA, a town of the Cantii in Britannia Ro­mans (Aot. Imp.) fT. H. D.l VAGA. [Vacca.J VAGEDRUSA, the name of a river in Sicily, men­tioned by Silius Italicus (xiv. 229), according to theold editions of that author; but there ran be nodoubt that the true reading ia that restored by Ru-perti, "vage Chrysa," and that the river Chrysas isthe one meant (Ruperti, ad I. c.) [E. H. B.j VAGIENNI (B«7n>'i'o(), a Ligurian tribe, whoinhabited the region X. of the Maritime Alps, andS. of the territory of the Taurini. According toPliny they extended as far to the W. as the MonsVesulus or Monte Viio, in the main chain of thoAlps (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20), while their chief townor capital under the Roman rule, called AugustaVagiennorum, was situated at Bate, between therivers Stura and Tanaro, so that they must haveoccupied an extensive territory . But it seems im­possible to receive as correct the statement of Vel-leius (i. 15) that the Roman colony of Eporedia(/cr«i) was included within their limits. [Epo­redia.] It is singular that Pliny more thanonce speaks of them as being descended from theCaturiges, while at the same time he distinctlycalls them a Ligurian tribe, and the Caturiges arecommonly reckoned a Gaulish one. It seems pro­bable, however, that many of the races which in­habited the mountain valleys of the Alps wereof Ligurian origin; and thus the Caturiges andSegu-tiani may very possibly have been of a Li­gurian stock like their neighbours the Taurini,though subsequently confounded with the Gauls.We hare no account of the period at which theVagienni were reduced under the Roman yoke,and their name is not found in history as an inde­pendent tribe. But Pliny notices them as oneof the Ligurian tribes still existing in bis time, andtheir chief town, Augusta, seems to have been aflourishing place under the Roman Empire. Theirname is sometimes written Ba^ienni (Orcll. Inter.76), and is found in the Tabula under the corruptform Bagitenni. (Tab. Ftut.) [E. H. B.j VAGXIACAE, a town of the Cantii in Britan­nia Romans, between Xoviomagua and Durobrivae.Camden (p. 226) identifies it with Maidstone,Horsley (p. 424), with more probability, with North-fleet. Others have sought it near Longfleld, and atIrVofAam. [T. H. D.J VAGORITUM (Oi)o7ooito»). [Arvii.J VAHALIS. [Batavi; Riikkis.] VALCUM, a place near the coufines of Up-per and Lower Pannonia, not far from Lake Peiso(/fin. Ant. p. 233), but its exact site is uncer­tain. [L. S.J VALDASUS, a southern tributary of the Savns,flowing from the mountains of Illyricum, and join- 4 L 3