OCR Output 404 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. as an heritable burden. To him moreover, or at any rate tothe allotment-commission, the custom of erecting milestonesappears to be traceable as well as that of marking thelimits of fields by regular boundary-stones. Lastly heprovided for good vice vicinales, with the view of thereby pro­moting agriculture. But of still greater moment was theconstruction of the imperial highways in the provinces,which beyond doubt began in this epoch. The Domitianhighway after long preparations (ii. 198) furnished a secureland-route from Italy to Spain, and was closely connectedwith the founding of Aquae Sextiae and Narbo (P. 170); theGabinian (P. 177) and the Egnatian (P. 43) led from theprincipal places on the east coast of the Adriatic sea—theformer from Salona, the latter from Apollonia and Dyrra-chium—into the interior. Of the origin of these works no"mention is to be found in the fragmentary tradition of thisepoch, but they were nevertheless undoubtedly connectedwith the Gallic, Dalmatian, and Macedonian wars of thisage, and came to be of the greatest importance for the cen­tralization of the state and the civilizing of the subjugatedbarbarian districts. In Italy at least great works of drainage were prosecuted 160. as well as the formation of roads. In 594 the drying of thePomptine marshes—a vital matter for Central Italy—wasset about with great energy and at least temporary success; ] 09. in 645 the draining of the low-lying lands between Parma andPlacentia was effected in connection with the construction ofthe north Italian highway. Moreover, the government didmuch for the Roman aqueducts, as indispensable for thehealth and comfort of the capital as they were costly. Notonly were the two that had been in existence since the years312. 262. 442 and 492—the Appian and the Anio aqueducts—tho- 144. roughly repaired in 610, but two new ones were formed; theMarcian in 610, which remained afterwards unsurpassed forthe excellence and abundance of the water, and the Calida,as it was called, nineteen years later. The power of theRoman exchequer to execute great operations by means ofpayments in pure cash without making use of the system ofcredit, is very clearly shown by the way in which the Marcianaqueduct was created: the sum required for it of 180,000,000sesterces (in gold nearly £2,000,000) was raised and appliedwithin three years. This leads us to infer a very considerablereserve in the treasury: in fact at the very beginning of this