OCR Output 414 NEMAUSUS. NECTIBKRES. vest. Strabo speaks of it as rising opposite toAetna, so that he would seem to apply the name tothe mountains between that peak and the northerncoast, which are still covered with the extensiveforests of Caronia. Silius Italicux, on the otherhand, tells us that it was in the Mons Nebrodes thetwo rivers of the name of Himera had their sources,which can refer only to the more westerly group ofthe Monti di Madonia, the most lofty range inSicily after Aetna, and this indentification is gene­rally adopted. But, as already observed, there is noreal distinction between the two. Silius Italicusspeaks of the Mons Nebrodes as covered with forests,and Solinus derives its name from the number offawns that wandered through them; an etymologyobviouslv fictitious. (Strab. vi. p. 274; Solin. 5.§§ 11, 12; Sil. Ital.xiv.236; Cluver.Sicil p. 364;Fazell. de Reb. Sic. x. 2. p. 414.) [E. H. B.] NECTIREUES. [Maukktaxta.] NEDA (Nton), now Biai, a river of Peloponnesus,rises in Sit. Ccrausium, a branch of Mt. Lycacus inArcadia, and flows with many windings in a westerlydimrtion past Phigalia, first forming the bound­ary between Arcadia and Messenta, and afterwardsbetween Elis and Messenia. It falls into the Ioniansea, and near its mouth is navigable for small boats.(1'aus. iv. 20. §§ 1, 2, iv. 36. § 7, v. 6. § 3, viii. 38.§ 3, viii. 41. §§ 1,2; St rati. viii. pp. 344,348; Leake,Morea, vol. i. pp. 56, 485; Ross, Reisen im Pelo-ponnet, p. 84; Curtius, Pelopometot, vol. ii. pp.152, 185.) NEDAD, a river of Pannonia, mentioned onlyby Jornandes (de Jitb. Get. 50), as the river on thebanks of which the Huns were defeated by theGepidac. The name is in some MSS. Kedao, and theriver is believed to be the modern Neytra. [L. S.] NEDINUM QHfiamr, Ptol. ii. 16. § 10; Geog.Kav. iv. 16; Neditae, Orelli, Inter. 3452), a town ofthe Liburni, on the road from Siscia to Iadera (PeuLTab.), identified with the ruins near Nadin. Orelli(I. c.) refers the inscription to Norigrad. (Wilkinson,Dalmalia and Montenegro, vol. i. p. 93.) [E. B. J.] N'EDON. rMtasKXiA, p. 342, b.] NEGRA. [Marsyabae, pp. 284, 285.] NKI.CYXDA (Ttt N«Ajtw8a, PcripL §§ 53, 54,ed. Mutter, 1855), a port on the W. coast of India,in the province called Limyrica, without doubt theMine as that now called Nelueram. It is in lat12° 10' N. It is mentioned in various authoritiesunder names slightly modified one from the other;thus, it is the Mclcynda of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 9),in the country of the Aii; the "porlitt gentis Nca-cyndon " of Pliny (vi. 26. s. 104), which was alsoculled Bacare or Barace; the Nincylda of the Peu-tingerian Table; and Nileinna of the Gengr. Raven.(ii. 1). The name is certainly of Indian origin,and may be derived, as suggested by Ritter (v.p. 515) from NUakhandu, the blue county. Otherderivations, however, have been proposed for it.(Vincent, Prripliu, ii. p. 445; Rennell, Mem. //tn-dotttm, p. 48; Gosselin, iii. p. 227.) [V.] NELEUS. [Euboba, Vol. I. p. 872, a.] NE'LIA (NnXia), a town of Magnesia in Thes-saly, between which and Iolcus Demetrias was situ­ated. Leake identifies it with the remains of asmall Hellenic town above I*ekhtmia. (Strab. ix.p. 436; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 379.) NELO, a small river of Hispania Tarraconinsis,in the territory of the Asturcs, and on the N. coastof Spain; probably the Rio de la J'uente. (Plin. iv.20. a. 34; Ukert, voL ii pU 1. p. 299.) [T.H.D.] NEMALONT, an Alpine people. In the Trophyof the Alps the name of the Nemaloni ocean be­tween the Brodiontii and Edenates. (Plin. iii. 20 )The site of this people is uncertain. It is a mereguess to place them, as some do, at MioUuu. in thevalley of Barcelonette. [G. L.] NEMAUSUS (NinaiMTot: Eth. Nefuuxna*, Ne-tnausensis: Nhnei), a city of Gallia Narboneost* unthe road from Arelate (Aries) through Narbo(Snrbonne) into Spain. Ptolemy (ii. la § 10) callsit Nemausus Colonia, but he places it in the samelatitude as Arausio {Orange), and more than adegree north of Arelate; which are great blunders.Nemausus was the chief place of the Volcae Arero-mici: "with respect to number of foreigners and tl*»«engaged in trade (says Strab. iv. p. 186) much infe­rior to Narbo, but with respect to its population muchsuperior; for it has subject to it twenty-four Tillagesof people of the same stock, populous villages whichare contributory to Nemausus, which has what iscalled the Latium (Jus Latii or Latinitas). Byvirtue of this right those who have obtained tinhonour of an aedileship and quaestorship in Ne­mausus become Roman citizens; and for this reasonthis people is not under the orders of the governorsfrom Rome. Now the city is situated on the roadfrom Iberia into Italy, which road in the summer iseasy travelling, but in the winter and sprint; »muddy and washed by streams. Some of thesestreams are passed by boats, and others by brkirwof wood or stone. The wintry torrents are the can**of the trouble from the water, for these torrm'.isometimes as late as the summer descend from theAlps after the melting of the snow." Strabo fixes the site of Nemausus about 100 stadiafrom the Rhone, at a point opposite to Taraacon. and720 stadia from Narbo. In another place (iv. p. 178)Strabo estimates the distance from Narbo to Ne­mausus at 88 M. P. One of the Ilin. routes makesit 91 M. P. from Narbo to Nemausus. Strabo'a twodistances do not agree, for 720 stadia are 90 M. P.The site of the place is certain. In the middle aj»documents the name is written Nemse (D'Anvilfe).There seems to be no authority for writing tliemodern name Niemes; and yet Mimes, as it is nowproperly written, supposes a prior form .Yemees.Ximet is the present capital of the arroodiastiimitof Card, the richest in Roman remains of all thedistricts of France. The twenty-four smaller places that were attar Led(attributa) to Nemausus are mentioned by Pliny(iii. 4). The territory of Nemausus produced p<jcheese, which was carried to Rome (Plin. si. 42).This cheese was made on the Cecennes, and Flinyappears to include Mons Lesura in the territory «fNemausus. Latera [Latf.ra] on the Ledtu (La)west of Nemausus was in the territory, which pro­bably extended through Cgemum eastward to lb*Rhone. Nemausus was an old Gallic town. Thename is the same that Strabo gives with a alightvariation (Xemossus) to Augustoneinetum or t'fer-mont in Awergne. The element A'raa appears inthe name of several Gallic towns. Nemausus wanmade a Colonia probably by the emperor Aognetwa,An inscription on one of the gates, called the r>-«of Augustus, records the eleventh or twelfth ror»ol-ship of Augustus, and that he gave gale* and wattsto the colony. There is a bmnu medal of Se-mausus in the Museum of Arigmon, tbe so calmlPied de Btche, on one side of which tbrre is thelegend col. Hex. with a crocodile chained to a palm­