OCR Output 100 ITIUS PORTUS. ITIUS POKTUS. sage in the fifth book (v.8), in which Caesar describes |his second eoyage, show* very clearly when' he landed.He sailed from Portus Itius, on his second expedition,at sunset, with a wind about SW. by \V.; about mid­night .the wind failed him, he could not keep hiscourse, and, being carried too far by the tide, at day­break, when he locked about him, he saw Iiritanniaon his left hand behind him. Taking advantage ofthe change of the tide, he usod his oars to reach"that part of the island where he had found in theprevious summer that there was the best landing."He had been carried a few miles past the CantiumPromontorium, or Xorth Foreland but not out ofsight, and lie could easily find his way to the beachat Ileal. There arc many arguments to show thatIleal was Caesar's landing-place, as it was for theKonians under the empire, who built near it the strongplace of Kutupiae (RU-hborouyh), on the Stout', nearSatulicich. D'Anville makes out Caesar's distance of 30 SI. P.thus. He reckons 22 or 24 If.PM at most, fromPorttu ltius to the English cliffs, and 8 milesfrom his anchorage under the cliffs to his landing-place make up 30. Perhaps Caesar means toestimate the whole distance that he sailed to his land­ing place; and if this is so, his estimate of " about30 Itoman miles" is not far from the truth, and quiteas near as we can expect. Strabo (p. 199) makesthe distance 320 stadia, or only 300, according to anote of Kustathius on Dionysius Periegctes (v. 56f>),who either found 300 in his copy of Strabo, or madea mistake about the number; for he derived his in­formation about Caesar's passage only from Strabo.It may be observed here that Strabo mentions twoexpeditions of Caesar, and only one port of embark­ation, the Itius. He understood Caesar in the sameway as all people will do who can draw a conclusionfrom premises. But even 300 stadia is too great adistance from Wissnvt to the British coast, if wereckon 8 stadia to the ltoman mile; but there Ugood reason, as D'Anville says, for making 10 stadiato the mile here Pliny gives the distance fromBoulogne to Britannia, that is, we must assume, totho usual landing place, Itutupiac, at 50 M.P., whichis too much; but it seems to be some evidence thathe could not suppose ISouixjue to be Caesar's place ofembarkation. Caesar mentions another port r.ear Itius. He callsit the Ulterior Portus (iv. 22, 23, 28). or Superior,and it was 8 SI.P. from Itius. We might assumefrom the term Ulterior, which has reference to Itius,that this port was further to the north and east thanItius; and this is proved by what he says of thewind. For the wind which carried him to Britanniaon his first cx|icdition, hi* direct course being nearlynorth, prevented the ships at the Ulterior Portus fromcoming to the place where Caesar embarked (iv. 23).The Ulterior, or Superior, Portus is between Wissantand Calais, and may be Sanyatte. Calais is too faroff. When Caesar was returning from his first expe­dition (iv. 36, 37) two transport ships could notmake the same portus—tho Itius and the Ulterior orSuperior—that the rat of the ships ilid, but werecarried a little lower down (paulo infra), that is,further south, which we know to be Caesar's mean­ing by comparing this with another passage (iv.38). Caesar does not say that these two shipslanded at a "portus," as Ukert supposes (Colli,*,p. 554). who makes a port unknown to Caesar, andgives it the name " Inferior." Ill Cangr, Camden, and others, correctly took rortns Itius to bo Wiisaml. Besides thebianco of name, Du Cange and Gibson hare shows. MAP ILLI'STUATIMJ TIIK POSITION OF roKTWITU'S. A. a. Strait of Doerr. or Pal de Calais, t. 1Intis (H'uiaut). 2. Ilium Pr. (Cap Oriimez). 3. <>*. •orlacum. HlttTwnrdu lloiiniifa ( ttvvlariu). 4. Calsk.S. Sa-ntitatc. r„ Porlm Dubrli (Dcrrr). 7. HntopUr(ltirlilx,rougli). K. Kl»er Sluur. 9 ('uuium Vx. ( \ «I*r'urcland). 10. Itcgulbiuui 4 litemter). that of two middle age Latin writers who mentionthe passage of Alfred, brother of St. Edward, intoEngland, one calls rVimasU Portus Iccius, and theother Portus Wisanti. D'Anville conjectures thatWissant means "white sand," and accordingly thepromontory Itium would be the White, a very goodname for it. But the word '* white," and its variantforms, is Teutonic, and not a Celtic word, ao far as uSewriter knows; and the word " Itius" existed in Cae­sar's time on the coast of the Slorini, a Celtic people,where we do not expect to see a Teutonic name. Wissant uas known to the Unmans, for there aretraces of a road from it to Tarucnna (7'Auiki—')■It is no port now, and never was a port in the moilernsense, but it was Terjr well suited for Caesar to drswhis ships up on the beach, as he did when he landedin England ; for Wiwant is a wide, sheltered, sandyl«av. Kroissart speaks of H'i'.win4 as a large townin'l34fi. A great deal has been written about Caesar's tor-ages. The first and the best attempt to explain it.though it is not free from some mistakes, is Dr. Hal-ley's, of which an exposition Is given in the Classical.Museum, No. xiii., by (1 Long. D'Anville, with hisusual judgment, saw that Itius must be Wissamt, bathe supposed that Caesar landed at Jlytke, snath tfiMirer. Walckenaer (Ctog. <ks liaulrs. vol. L pp-**S,452) has some remarks on ltius. which lie take* t>be Wissant; and there are remarks on Portus Itiusin the Gentleman's Slagaxine for September. 18441, ly11. L. Long. Esq. Perhaps the latest examinatisn >tthe matter is in G. Long's edition of Caesar. .>■«»«•Vamir't British Exjxditions, pp. 248—257. Whatthe later German gcogiajihers and critic*, Ukrit aftlothers, have said oi these vnvagea is of no value atall. [O. I-J