OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 37 when they returned on the third day to give battle, theyfound the Romans in readiness. The conflict came off with­out decisive result; but on their return the Carthaginianvessels so ran foul of each other in and before the entranceof the harbour, that the damage thus occasioned wasequivalent to a defeat. Scipio now directed his attacksagainst the outer quay, which lay outside of the city wallsand was only protected for the exigency by an earthen rampartof recent constructiou. The machines were stationed onthe tongue of land, and a breach was easily made; but withunexampled intrepidity the Carthaginians, wading throughthe shallows, assailed the besieging implements, chased awaythe covering force which ran off in such a manner that Scipiowas obliged to make his own troopers cut them down, anddestroyed the machines. In this way they gained time toclose the breach. Scipio again established the machines andset on fire the wooden towers of the enemy; by which meanshe obtained possession of the quay and of the outer harbouralong with it. A rampart equalling the city wall in heightwas here constructed, and the town was now at length com­pletely blockaded by land and sea, for the inner harbourcould only be reached through the outer. To insure thecompleteness of the blockade, Scipio ordered Gaius Laeliusto attack the camp at Nepheris, where Diogenes now heldthe command; it was captured by a fortunate stratagem,and the whole countless multitude assembled there were putto death or taken prisoners. Winter had now arrived andScipio suspended his operations, leaving famine and pesti­lence to complete what he had begun. How fearfully these mighty agencies had laboured in the Capture ofwork of destruction during the interval while Hasdrubal the city.continued to vaunt and to gormandize, appeared so soon asthe Roman army proceeded in the spring of 608 to attack 146.the inner town. Hasdrubal gave orders to set fire to the outerharbour and made himself ready to repel the expectedassault on the Cothon; but Laelius succeeded in scalingthe wall, hardly longer defended by the famished garrison, ata point further up and thus penetrated into the innerharbour. The city was captured, but the struggle wasstill by no means at an end. The assailants occupied thomarket-place contiguous to the small harbour, ana slowlypushed their way along the three narrow streets leading fromthis to the citadel—slowly, for the huge houses of six stories