OCR Output 176 LIVY. ranks, prayed thus: • Bellona, if thou grantest us thevictory this day, I vow to thee a temple.' And thatafter this vow, as if inspirited by the goddess, he dis­played a degree of courage equal to that of his col­league, and of the troops. The generals performedevery duty, and each of their armies exerted, withemulation, its utmost vigor, lest the other should befirst victorious. They therefore quickly broke anddefeated the enemy, who were ill able to withstand aforce so much superior to any with which they hadbeen accustomed to contend: then pressing them asthey gave ground, and pursuing them closely as theyfled, they drove them into their camp. There Gelliuaand his Samnite cohorts interposing, the fight was re­newed for a time with some warmth. But these beinglikewise soon dispersed, the conquerors advanced tostorm the camp ; and Volumnius, in person, leadinghis troops against one of the gates, while Appius, fre­quently invoking Bellona the victorious, inflamed thecourage of his men, neither rampart nor trenchescould prevent their breaking in. The camp was takenand plundered, and the spoil, of which great abun­dance was found, was given up to the soldiers. Ofthe enemy seven thousand three hundred were slain ;and two thousand one hundred and twenty taken. 20. While both the consuls, with the whole force ofthe Romans, pointed their exertions principally againsttheir enemies in Etruria, a new army was set on footin Samnium ; and, with design to ravage the frontiersof the Roman empire, passed over through the coun­try of the Vescians into the Campanian and Faler-nian territories, where they committed great depreda­tions. Volumnius, as he was hastening back to Sam­nium, by forced marches, because the term for whichFabius and Decius had been continued in commandwas nearly expired, heard of this army of Samnites,and of the mischief which they had done in Campania;determining, therefore, to afford protection to the al­lies, he altered his route towards that quarter. Whenhe arrived in the district of Cales, he found marks of