OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPI11E. 309 the city had not been animated by a vital principle, chap. which again restored her to honour and dominion. [ The power of the apostles resided with living energyin the breast of their successors; and the chair ofSt. Peter was filled under the reign of Maurice bythe first and greatest of the name of Gregory*. His Birth andgrandfather Felix had himself been pope, and as the of Gregorybishops were already bound by the law of celibacy,the Roman-his consecration must have been preceded by thedeath of his wife. The parents of Gregory, Sylviaand Gordian, were the noblest of the senate, andthe most pious of the church of Rome: his femalerelations were numbered among the saints and vir­gins; and his own figure with those of his fatherand mother were represented near three hundredyears in a family portraitf, which he offered to themonastery of St. Andrew. The design and colour­ing of this picture afford an honourable testimony,that the art of painting was cultivated by the Italiansof the sixth century; but the most abject ideas mustbe entertained of their taste and learning, since theepistles of Gregory, his sermons, and his dialogues,arc the work of a man who was second in eruditionto none of his contemporaries: his birth and abilitieshad raised him to the office of praefect of the city,and he enjoyed the merit of renouncing the pomp and * Resides the Epistles of Gregory himself which are methodised by Dupin,(Bibliothequc Eccles. tom. v. p. 103—126), we have three lives of the pope; thefirst two written in the viiith and ixth centuries (de Triplici Vita St. Greg. Pre­face to the ivth volume of the Benedictine edition) by the deacons Paul (p. 1—1U) and John (p. 19—188), and containing much original, though doubtful, evi­dence; a third, a long and laboured compilation by the Benedictine editors(p. II)!)—305). The Annals of Baronius are a copious but partial history. Hispapal prejudices are tempered by the good sense of Fleury (Hist. Eccles. tom,viii.), and his chronology has been rectified by the criticism of Pagi andMuratori. + John trie deacon has described them like an eye-witness (I. iv. c . 83, 84);and his description is illustrated by Angelo Rocca, a Human antiquary (St. Greg.Opera, tom. iv. p. 312—32C); who observes, that some mosaics of the popes ofthe viith century are still preserved in the old churches of Rome (p. 321—323).The same walls which represented Gregory's family are now decorated with themartyrdom of St. Andrew, the noble contest of Dominichino and Guido. x 3