OCR Output CHAP. L. 293 splendid prodigies; and Mahomet was repeatedly urged,by the inhabitants of Mecca and Medina, to produce asimilar evidence of his divine legation; to call downfrom heaven the angel or the volume of his revelation,to create a garden in the desert, or to kindle a confla­gration in the unbelieving city. As often as he ispressed by the demands of the Koreish, he involveshimself in the obscure boast of vision and prophecy,appeals to the internal proofs of his doctrine, and shieldshimself behind the providence of God, who refusesthose signs and wonders that would depreciate the meritof faith and aggravate the guilt of infidelity. But themodest or angry tone of his apologies betrays his weak­ness and vexation; and these passages of scandal, esta­blish beyond suspicion, the integrity of the Koran.dThe votaries of Mahomet are more assured than himselfof his miraculous gifts, and their confidence and credu­lity increase as they are farther removed from the timeand place of his spiritual exploits. They believe or af­firm that trees went forth to meet him: that he was sa­luted by stones; that water gushed from his fingers,that he fed the hungry, cured the sick, and raised thedead; that a beam groaned to him; that a camel com­plained to him; that a shoulder of mutton informed himof its being poisoned; and that both animate and inani­mate nature were equally subject to the apostle of God.*His dream of a nocturnal journey is seriously describedas a real and corporeal transaction. A mysterious ani­mal, the borak, conveyed him from the temple of Meccato that of Jerusalem: with his companion Gabriel, he * See more remarkably, Koran, c.2. 6.12,13. 17. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet,p. 18,19.) has confounded the impostor. Maracci, with a more learned appara­tus, has shewn that the passages which deny his miracles are clear and positive,(Alcoran, torn. 1. part 2. p. 7—12.) and those which seem to assert them, are am­biguous and insufficient, (p. 12—22. j '• See the Specimen Hist. Arabum, the text of Abulpharagius, p. 17. the no es ofPocock, p. 187—190. d'Herbelot Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 76, 77. Voyages deCbardin, torn. 4. p. 200—203. Maracci (Alcoran, torn. 1. p. 22—64.) has mostlaboriously collected and confuted the miracles and prophecies of Mahomet, which,according to some writers, amount to three thousand.