OCR Output 90 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and were not wanting in diligence accordingto their ability; but they brought silver, andgold, and brass, and the best sorts of wood,and such as would not at all decay by putre­faction; camels" hair also, and sheep-skins;some of them dyed of a blue colour, and someof a scarlet: some brought the flower for thepurple colour, and others for white, with wooldyed by the aforementioned flowers; and finelinen, and precious stones, which those thatuse costly ornaments set in ounces of gold:they brought also a great quantity of spices.For of these materials did Moses build thetabernacle: which did not at all differ from amoveable temple. Now when these thingswere brought together with great diligence,(for every one was ambitious to further thework, even beyond their ability,) he set ar­chitects over the works, and this by the com­mand of God: and indeed the very samewhich the people themselves would havechosen, had the election been allowed tothem. Now their names are set down in wri­ting in the sacred books; and they were these,Bazaleel, the son of Uri, of the tribe of Judah,the grandson of Miriam, the sister of theirconductor; and Aholiab, the^on of Ahisa-mach, of the tribe of Dan. Now the peoplewent on with what they had undertaken withso great alacrity, that Moses was obliged torestrain them, by making proclamation, thatwhat had been brought was sufficient, as theartificers had informed him: so they fell towork upon the building of the tabernacle.Moses also informed them, according to thedirection of God, both what the measureswere to be, and its dimensions; and howmany vessels it ought to contain, for the useof the sacrifices. The women also wereambitious to do their parts about the garmentsof the priests, and about other things thatwould be wanted in this work, both for orna­ment, and for the divine service itself. When all things were prepared, the gold,and the silver, and the brass, and what was. woven, Moses having previously appointedthat there should be a festival, and that sacri­fices should be offered according to everyone's ability, reared up the tabernacle. Andwhen he had measured the open court, fifty cripts, omitted here the heinous sin of the Israelites, inmaking and worshipping the golden calf, or the EgyptianApis, made of wood, but covered over with cast gold round cubits broad, and a hundred long, he set upbrazen pillars, five cubits high; twenty oneach of the longer sides, and ten pillars forthe breadth behind. Every one of the pillarsalso had a ring. Their chapiters were ofsilver, but their bases were of brass; theyresembled the sharp ends of spears, and wereof brass, fixed into the ground. Cords werealso put through the rings, and were tied atthe farther ends to brass nails of a cubit long,which at every pillar were driven into thefloor, and would keep the tabernacle frombeing shaken by the violence of winds. Buta curtain of fine soft linen went round allthe pillars, and hung down in a flowing man­ner from their chapiters, and enclosed thewhole space, forming a kind of wall about it.Such was the structure of three of the sidesof this enclosure: but as for the fourth side,which was fifty cubits in extent, and was thefront of the whole; twenty cubits of it werefor the opening at the gates, wherein stoodtwo pillars on each side, after the resem­blance of open gates; these were made whollyof silver, and polished all over, excepting thebases, which were of brass. Now on eachside of the gates there stood three pillars,which were inserted into the concave basesof the gates, and were suited to them; andround them was drawn a curtain of fine linen.But to the gates themselves, which weretwenty cubits in extent, and five in height,the curtain was composed of purple, andscarlet, and blue, and fine linen; and em­broidered with divers sorts of figures, except­ing the figures of animals. Within thesegates was the brazen laver, for purification,having a bason beneath of the like matter:in which the priests might wash their hands,*and sprinkle their feet. And this was theornamental construction of the enclosureabout the court of the tabernacle, which wasexposed to the open air. As to the tabernacle itself, Moses placed itin the middle of that court, with its front tothe east; that when the sun rose, it mightsend its first rays upon it. Its length, when itwas set up, was thirty cubits, and its breadthwas ten cubits. One of its walls was on thesouth, and the other was exposed to the north, about it. See Isaiah xl. 19, 20. Jer. x. 3, 4, and Habii. 19. * Exod. xxx. 19.