OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIgUITIES OF THE JEWS. 169 "other nations would obey the commands of Antiochus, either"out of fear, or to please him, yet would not he nor his sons"leave the religious worship of their country." But as soon ashe had ended his speech, there came one of the Jews into themidst of them, and sacrificed, as Antiochus had commanded. Atwhich Mattathias had great indignation, and ran upon him vio­lently, with his sons, who had swords with them, and slew boththe man himself that sacrificed, and Apelles the king's general,who compelled them to sacrifice, with a few of his soldiers. Healso overthrew the idol altar; and cried out, "If, said he, any"one be zealous for the laws of his country, and for the worship"of God, let him follow me." And when he had said this, hemade haste into the desert with his sons, and left all his substancein the village. Many others did the same also, and fled withtheir children and wives into the desert, and dwelt in caves.But when the king's generals heard this, they took all the forcesthey then had in the citadel at Jerusalem, and pursued the Jewsinto the desert; and when they had overtaken them, they in thefirst place endeavoured to persuade them to repent, and to choosewhat was most for their advantage, and not put them to thenecessity of using them according to the law of war. But whenthey would not comply with their persuasions, but continued tobe of a different mind, they fought against them on the Sabbath-day, and they burnt them, as they were in the caves, without re­sistance, and without so much as stoppingup the entrances of thecaves. And they avoided to defend themselves on that day,because they were not willing to break in upon the honour theyowed the Sabbath, even in such distresses, for our law requiresthat we rest upon that day. There were about a thousand, withtheir wives and children, who were smothered, and died in thesecaves; but many of those that escaped joined themselves to Mat­tathias, and appointed him to be their ruler, who taught themto fight, even on the Sabbath-day; and told them, that " unless"they would do so, they would become their own enemies, by"observing the law [so rigorously,] while their adversaries would"still assault them on this day, and they would not then defend"themselves, and that nothing could then hinder but they must"all perish without fighting." This speech persuaded them.And this rule continues among us to this day, that if there bea necessity, we may fight on Sabbath-days. So Mattathias gota great army about him, and overthrew their idol altars, andslew those that broke the laws, even all that he could get underhis power, for many of them were dispersed among the nationsround about them for fear of him. He also commanded, thatthose boys which were not yet circumcised should be circumcisednow; and he drove those away that were appointed to hinder suchtheir circumcision.