OCR Output TIBURES. I i»nr, TICINTM. e pavement are in complete preservation. Underrack on the right is an ancient artificial care, calledthe local antiquaries // Tempio del Mondo, buthied was probably either a sepulchre, or one ofmr cares consecrated by the ancients to the rusticiHsry deities. This mad joins the Via Constan-i before mentioned, leading up to the ruins of the-rilled villa of Maecenas. Outside the Porta S. Crocs is a district calledirciamo, a corruption of the name of Cassianumtuch it bore in the 10th century, derived from atenificent rilla of the gens Cxssia which was si-«ted in it. In the time of Zappi, in the 16thnrory, a great part of this building was extant.^ tplmdour of this residence is attested by theiwim beautiful statues found there, many oflieh were acquired by Pope Pius VI. and nowon the Vatican. In the neighbourhood of Tibur» •!*> the remains of several aqueducts, as thew Vettta, the Aqua Marcia, and the Aqua Claudia.m ruins of the sumptuous villa of Hadrian Hent 'i mi lea S. of the town. A description of itmid be too long for this place, and it will sufficeay that, in a circuit of about 8 miles, it embraced,tides the imperial palace and a barracks for theanl. a Lyceum, an Academy, a fac-simile of theecOe at Athens and of the Sera pen in at Alexan-*, s rale of Tempe, a Tartarus, a tract called theman Fields, a stream called the Kuripus, numerousAc. (Cf. N'lbby, Viaggio Antitptario, vol. i.;w-'i/i deila Carta de' IHntorni di Roma, v. viiL; T(rp**Jrnphy of Rome and its vicinity, od.isbury; Ant. del Re\ Antichita Tibvrtine; Ca­ll* and F. del Kc. Delia Villa e def MonumentiRati dtlla Citta e del Territorio di Tivoli; Santo4s, Storia di Tivoli; Keller, De vetert cum novocomparalo : cuncerninc the villa of Hadrian,"*> I.igorio, Pumta della Villa Tiburtina; Fea, Winrhlmann. ii. p. 379.) [T. H. D.] IlHURESor TIBIIHI (T«to£pm> in gen., Ptol.6. § 37), a branch of the Astures in HispaniaTTaocmensia, whose principal town was Netueto-rs. [T. H. 1).] TICHIS (Tech), a river of Gallia Narbonensis,«d by jlela (ii. 5) in the "Ora Sardonum"*KtM>si»]. The Tichis is the Tecum of Pliny 4). The Tet and the Tech, two small rivers,« the territory of Roussillon from west to eastm Tichis is named llliberis or Illeris by otheriters. [Iixibf.ria.] [G. L.] VICHIUM. [Teiciucm.]TICRJUtvSA (T«iX"»iwffo), i« mentioned twice Tbacydidea (viii. 26, 28) as a fortified place(**r;» in the territory of Miletus. Stephanus B.*** of it under the name of T«iX'^*ff(ra» Hn^fceiaeus knew it under the name of Tttxiovs (viii.!331.) It seems to have been situatM on theTA coast of the bav of Iassus. [I.. >; T1CUOS or TEICHOS. [Dtmk.] |IinSTM (TUiswr: Eth. Ticinensis: Paria), a* of Gallia Transpadana, situated on the river"-aft, from which it derived its name, about 5 above the junction of that stream with the'-m. According to Pliny it was founded by thea tribes of the Lnevi and Marici, at the period ofGaulish immigrations into this pnrt of Italy,an. ui. 17. s. 21.) Bat it is remarkab'e that nott*o ii found of any town on the site during'>~ati.>n* of P. Scipio against Hannibal in n, c-"UMQch ha must hare crossed the Ticinus in■ itntnediate npighbourhoui of the spot where the! city afterwards stood. It is probable, indeed, thatin this, as in many other cases, the rise of a townupon the spot was mainly owing to the existence ofa convenient passage across the river. There seemsno reason to doubt that under the Itoman eovern-ment Ticinum had grown up into a considerablemunicipal town before the close of the Republic,though its name is not noticed in history. Butit is mentioned by all the geographers, and repeat­edly figures in history during the Roman Empire.It is included by Ptolemy among the cities of thelnsubres, and would naturally be so reckoned, thoughnot of Insubrian origin, as soon as the river Ticinuscame to be considered as the bonndsrv of thatpeople. (Strab. v. p. 217; Plin. iii. 17. s.*21; Ptol.iii. 1. § 36.) The earliest mention of Ticinum in history is onoccasion of the death of Drusus, the father of Ger-manicus, when we are told that Augustus advancedas far as Ticinum to meet his funeral procrs.-inn.(Tac. Ann. iii. 5.) Its name is also repeatedlymentioned during the civil wars of a.i>. 69. whenits position on the great highroad that led from thefoot of the Alps to join the Acniilian Way at Pla-centia, rendered it an important post. It was thescene of a serious sedition among the troops ofVitellius, while that emperor halted there. (Id. //i>f.ii. 17, 27, 30, 68, 88.) At a later period it was atTicinum that the emperor Claudius (the second ofthe name) was saluted with the imperial title, whilehe was commanding the garrison of the city. (Vict.Caes. 33, Epti. 34.) It was there also that Con-stantius took leave of his nephew Julian, whom hehad just raised to the rank of Caesar. (Ainmian.xv. 8. § 18.) From these frequent notices of Tici­num it seems probable that it had already risenunder the Roman Empire into a flourishing muni­cipal town, and derived importance from its position,the great highroad which formed the continuationof tbe Aemilian Way from Placentia to the foot ofthe Alps passing through Ticinum, until the in­creasing importance of Mediolamim, which becamethe second capital of Italy, made it customary toproceed through that city instead of following thedirect route, (/tin. AnL pp. 283, 340, 347.) But though Ticinum was undoubtedly a con­siderable town under the Roman Empire, it was nottill after the fall of that empire that it rose to theposition it subsequently ocenpied. In a. d. 452,indeed, it had unstained a great calamity, havingbeen taken and devastated by Atttla (Jomand. Get42); but the Gothic king Theodoric, being struckwith the importance of its position, not only raised itfrom its ruins, but erected a royal palace there, andstrengthened the city with fresh fort ificst ions, untilit became one of the strongest fortresses in this p.irtof Italy. It consequently bears an important jwrtin the Gothic wars, that people having made it theirchief stronghold in the north of Italy (Procop. B. G.ii. 12, 25, iii. 1, iv. 32, &c), in which the royaltreasures and other valuables were deposited. Atthe time of the Lombard invasion, it ottered a pro­longed resistance to the arms of Alboin, and was nottaken by that monarch till after a siege of morethan three years, a. p. 570 (P. IHac. Mitt. Lang. ii.26, 27). It thenceforth lieeatne tbe residence ofthe Lomlard kincs. and the capital of the kingdomof Italy, and continued to hold this position tillA. D. 774, when De»iderius, the last of the Lombardkings, was compelled to surrender the city to Charle­magne, after a blockade of more than 15 months. 4 tt 3