OCR Output AN. 164.] 447 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Bosor, and many other cities of the land ofGilead. But not long after this Timotheus prepareda great army, and took many others as aux­iliaries; and induced some of the Arabians,by the promise of rewards, to go with him inthis expedition; and came with his army be­yond the brook, over against the city Raphon.And he encouraged his soldiers, if it came toa battle with the Jews, to fight courageously,and to hinder their passing over the brook:for he said to them beforehand, "If theycome over it we shall be beaten." And whenJudas heard that Timotheus prepared himselfto fight, he took all his own army and went inhaste against his enemy: and when he hadpassed over the brook, he fell upon his ene­mies: and some of them he slew, and othersof them he so terrified, that he compelledthem to throw down their arms and fly. Andsome of these escaped: but some of themfled to what was called the temple at Car-naim; and hoped thereby to preserve them­selves. But Judas took the city, and slewthem, and burnt the temple, and so usedseveral ways of destroying his enemies. When he had done this, he gathered theJews together, with their children and wives,and the substance that belonged to them, andwas going to bring them back into Judea.But as soon as he was come to a certain city,called Ephron, that lay upon the road; (andas it was not possible for him to go any otherway, he was not willing to go back again:)he sent to the inhabitants, and desired thatthey would open their gates, and permit themto go on their way through the city: for theyhad stopped up the gates with stones, and cutoflT their passage through it. And when theinhabitants of Ephron would not agree to thisproposal, he encouraged those that were with him, and encompassed the city round, andbesieged it, and lying round it by day andby night, took the city, and slew every malein it, and burnt it down: and so obtained away through it. And the multitude of thosethat were slain was so great, that they wentover the dead bodies. So they came overJordan; and arrived at the great plain; overagainst which is situate the city Bethshan,which is called by the Greeks *Scythopolis.And going away hastily from thence, theycame into Judea: singing psalms and hymnsas they went; and indulging such tokens ofmirth as are usual in triumphs, upon victory.They also offered thank-offerings both fortheir good success, and for the preservationof their army. For fnot one of the Jewswas slain in these battles. But Joseph, the son of Zacharias, and Aza-rias whom Judas left generals of the forces;at the same time when Simon was in Galilee,fighting against the people of Ptolemais, andJudas himself, and his brother Jonathan, werein the land of Gilead; did also affect the gloryof being courageous generals in war; in orderwhereto they took the army that was undertheir command, and came to Jamnia. ThereGorgias, the general of the forces of Jamnia,met them: and upon joining battle with himthey lost Jtwo thousand of their army; andfled away, and were pursued to the very bor­ders of Judea. And this misfortune befellthem by their disobedience to Judas, whohad enjoined them not to fight with any onebefore his return. For besides the rest ofJudas's sagacious counsels, one may won­der that this concerning the misfortune thatbefell the forces commanded by Joseph andAzarias; which he understood would happen,if they brake any of the injunctions he hadgiven them. But Judas and his brethren * The reason why Bethshan was called Scythopolis, iswell known from Herodotus, I. page 105, and Syncellus,page 214, that the Scythians, when they over-ran Asia,in the days of Josiah, seized on this city; and kept itas long as they continued in Asia. From which time itretained the name of Scythopolis, or the city of the Scy­thians. It is so called by the author of the second bookof Maccabees, from Jason of Cyrene, xii. 29. as well as byJosephus, and long before him: while yet Josephus couldnot well take it from either of them; whose writings, orany other such Greek sacred authors, he never appearsto have seen. See Essay on the Old Testament, page184—195, and Supplement, page 45, 46. t This most providential preservation of all the reli- gious Jews in this expedition, which was according to thewill of God, is observable often among God's people theJews: and some very like it in the changes of the fourmonarchies, which were also highly providential. SeePrideaux at the years 334, 333, and 331. J Here is another great instance of Providence; thatwhen, even at the very time that Simon, and Judas,and Jonathan were so miraculously preserved, andblessed, in the just defence of their laws and religion;these other generals of the Jews who went to fight forhonour, in a vain-glorious way, and without any commis­sion from God, or the family he had raised up to deliverthem, were miserably disappointed and defeated. Sec1 Mace. v. 61, 62.