OCR Output G80 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. than as he had hearkened to evil counsellors, and this no fartherthan by bringing a shadow of injustice upon him. So Herod wasprevailed upon by these arguments, and supposed that what hehad already done was sufficient for his future hopes, and that hehad enough shewn his power to the nation. 10. In the mean time, there was a disturbance among the Ro­mans about Apamia, and a civil war occasioned by the treacher­ous * slaughter of Sextus Caesar, by Cicilius Bassus, which heperpetrated out of his good-will to Pompey ; he also took theauthority over his forces ; but, as the rest of Caesar's command­ers attacked Bassus with their whole army, in order to punishhim for the murder of Caesar, Antipater also sent them assistanceby his sons, both on account of him that was murdered, and onaccount of that Caesar who was still alive, both of which weretheir friends ; and as this war grew to be of a considerablelength, Marcus came of Italy as successor to Sextus. CHAP. XI. Herod it made procurator of all Syria ; Malichus is afraid ofhim, and takes /Intipatcr off" by poison : whereupon the tribunesof the soldiers are prevailed with to kill him. $ 1. ' I 'HERE was at this time a mighty war raised among theRomans, upon the sudden aud treacherous slaughter ofCaesar by Cassius and Brutus, after he had held the governmentfor f three years and seven months. Upon this murder therewere very great agitations, and the great men were mightily atdifference one with another, and every one betook himself to thatparty where they had the greatest hopes of their own, of advan­cing themselves. Accordingly, Cassius came into Syria, in or­der to receive the forces that were at Apamia, where he procu­red a reconciliation between Bassus and Marcus, and the legionswhich were at difference with him ; so he raised the siege ofApamia, and took upon him the command of the army, andwent about exacting tribute of the cities, and demanding theirmoney to such a degree as they were not able to bear. 2. So he gave command that the Jews should bring in sevenhundred talents : whereupon Antipater, out of his dread of Cas-sius's threats, parted the raising of this sum among his sons, andamong others of his acquaintance, and to be done immediately ; and * Many writers of the Roman history give an account of this murder of Sex-tils Cxsar, and of the war of Apamia upon that occasion. They are cited inDean Aldrich's note. t In the Antiquities, B. XIV. ch. xi. sect. i. the duration of the reign of JuliusCfesar, is three years six months; but here three years seven months, beginningrightly, says Desn Aldrich, from his second dictatorship. It is probable thereal duration might be three years, and between six and seven months.