OCR Output Chap. IV. WARS OF THE Jfiws. 259 " I have committed ; bat the vengeance of the blood of my kins-" man pursues me hastily. O thon most impudent body ! how" long xvilt thoa retaia a soul that ought to die 0:1 account of that> " punishment it ought to suffer for a mother and a brother slain !" how long shall I myself spend my blood drop by drop ? let" them take it all at once ; and let their ghosts no longer be dis-" appointed by a few parcels of my bowels offered to them."As soon as he had said these words, he presently died, when hehad reigned no longer than a year. CHAP. IV. What actions "Mere done by Alexander jf&nneuS) who reigned.• • twenty-seven years. § 1, AND now the king's wife loosed the king's brethren,•j' and made Alexander king, who appeared both elderi;i age, and more moderate iu his temper than the rest; who,when he came to the government, slew one of his brethren, asaffecting to govern himself; but had tl>e other of them in greatesteem, as loving a quiet life, without meddling with public af-fairs. 2. Now it happened, that there was a battle between him andPtolemy, who was called Lathyrus, who had taken the city Aso-chis. He' indeed slew a great many of his enemies, but the vie.tory rather inclined to Ptolemy. But, when this Ptolemy waspursued by his mother Cleopatra, and retired into Egypt, Alex­ander besieged Gadara, and took it; as also he did Amathus,which was the strongest of all the fortresses that were aboutJordan, and therein were the most precious of all the posses­sions of Theodorus, the sou of Zeno. Whereupon Theodorasmarched against him, and took what belonged to himself, aswell as the king's baggage, and slew ten thousand of the .Tews.However, Alexander recovered this blow, and turned his forcetowards the maritime parts, and took Raphia, and Gaza, withAnthedon also, which was afterwards called Agrippias by kingHerod. 3. But when he had made slaves of the citizens of all these ci­ties, the nation of the Jews made an insurrection against him at afestival; for at those feasts seditions are generally begun, and itlooked as if he should not be able to escape the plot they had laidfor him, had not his foreign auxiliaries, the Pisidians and Cici-lians, assisted him; for, as to the Syrians, he never admitted themamong his mercenary troops, on account of their innate enmityagainst the Jewish nation. And when he had slain more than sixthousand of the rebels, he made an incursion into Arabia, andivhen he had taken that country, together with the Gileadites K k a and