OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL fCHAP.XLII. civil and paternal authority. Such a trade," which re­duces the human species to the level of cattle, may tendto encourage marriage and population: since the multi­tude of children enriches their sordid and inhuman pa­rent. But this source of impure wealth must inevitablypoison the national manners, obliterate the sense of ho­nour and virtue, and almost extinguish the instincts ofnature; the Christians of Georgia and Mingrelia are themost dissolute of mankind; and their children, who ina tender age are sold into foreign slavery, have alreadylearnt to imitate the rapine of the father and the prosti­tution of the mother. Yet amidst the rudest ignorance,the untaught natives discover a singular dexterity bothof mind and hand; and although the want of union anddiscipline exposes them to their more powerful neigh­bours, a bold and intrepid spirit has animated the Col-chians of every age. In the host of Xerxes, they servedon foot; and their arms were, a dagger or a javelin, awooden casque, and a buckler of raw hides. But in theirown country the use of cavalry has more generally pre­vailed: the meanest of the peasants disdain to walk; themartial nobles are possessed, perhaps, of two hundredhorses; and above five thousand are numbered in thetrain of the prince of Mingrelia. The Colchian govern­ment has been always a pure and hereditary kingdom;and the authority of the sovereign is only restrained bythe turbulence of his subjects. Whenever they wereobedient, he could lead a numerous army into the field;but some faith is requisite to believe, that the singletribe of the Suanians was composed of two hundredthousand soldiers, or that the population of Mingrelianow amounts to four millions of inhabitants.' * The Mingrelian amhassador arrived at Constantinople with two hundred persons;hat he ate (sold) them day by day, till his retinue was diminished to a secretary andtwo valets. (Tavernier, toro. 1. p. 365.) To purchase his mistress, a Mingrelian gen­tleman sold twelve priests and his wife to the Turks. (Chardin, tom. p. 66.) f Strabo, lib. 11. p. 765. Lamberti, Relation do la Mingrelie. Yet we mustavoid the contrary extreme of Chardin, who allows no more than twenty thousand in­hahitants to supply an annual exportation of twelve thousand slaves, an absurdity un­wortby of that judicious traveller.