OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 405 subdue the Barbarians of Germany, to follow the chap.course of the Danube from its source to the Euxine ,,' Sea, to overthrow the empire of Constantinople, andunite his new acquisitions with Antioch and Syria.But his design, which is attested by several Arabianhistorians, was checked at Lugo in Gallicia, by amessenger of the caliph, who recalled Musa to Da­mascus *. At the end of the first century of the Hegira, about Empire ofthe year 718, the caliphs were the most potent and cens,A™i).absolute monarchs of the globe. Their empire ex- 7l8,tended two hundred days' journey from east to west,from the confines of Tartary and India to the shoresof the Atlantic Ocean. But the thirst of conquest Theyin-and the extension of empire still prevailed in the ^fv.^T'breasts of the Moslems. They subdued the south- —7si.ern provinces of France; and, in the year 731, un­der the conduct of Abderame, they extended theirconquests as far as the banks of the Loire, and thegates of Tours. It was between this city and Poitiers,in the heart of France, that, in the year 732, aftersix days of desultory combat, Abderame was slain,and his army was totally defeated, by the Franks, theGepidae, and the Germans, under the command of theheroic Charles Martel, the father of Pepin and grand­father of Charlemagne. The victory of the Franks was complete; the Arabs Defeated bynever resumed the conquest of Gaul ; and they were Martd!soon driven beyond the Pyrenees, by Charles Martel A-D- 787-and his valiant descendants t. * This design which is attested by several Arabian historians (Cardonnc, vol.i. p. 95, 96), may be compared with that of Mithridates, to march from the Cri­mea to Rome; or with that of Caesar, to conquer the East, and return home hythe North: and all three are perhaps surpassed by the real and successful enter­prise of Hannibal. f I will not presume to conjecture what might have happened if theGallic hero had fallen in the battle of Tours, and the victory of Abderame hadbeen as complete as bis defeat. I trust, however, that my countrymen will notblame me, if I venture to differ from Mr. Gibbon, in the opinion which he ex- D D 3