OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Kinnisrin, or Chalcis, in Syria, as he was preparing to lead against Constantinoplethe remaining ferces of the east. The brother of Moslemah was succeeded by akinsman and an enemy; and the throne of an active and able prince was degradedby the useless and pernicious virtues of a bigot. While he started and satisfiedthe scruples of a blind conscience, the siege was continued through the winter bythe neglect rather than by the resolution of the caliph Omar.(l) The winterproved uncommonly rigorous: above a hundred days the ground was covered withdeep snow, and the natives of the sultry climes of Egypt and Arabia lay torpidand almost lifeless in their frozen camp. They revived on the return of spring; asecond effort had been made in their favour; and their distress was relieved by thearrival of two numerous fleets, laden with corn, and arms, and soldiers; the firstfrom Alexandria, of four hundred transports and galleys: the second of the threehundred and sixty vessels from the ports of Africa. But the Greek fires wereagain kindled, and if the destruction was less complete, it was owing to the expe­rience which had taught the Moslems to remain at a safe distance, or to the per­fidy of the Egyptian mariners, who deserted with their ships to the emperorof the Christians. The trade and navigation of the capital were restored; andthe produce of the fisheries supplied the wants, and even the luxury, of the inha­bitants. But the calamities of famine and disease were soon felt by the troops ofMoslemah, and as the former was miserably assuaged, so the latter was dread­fully propagated, by the pernicious nutriment which hunger compelled them toextract from the most unclean or unnatural food. The spirit of conquest, andeven of enthusiasm, was extinct: the Saracens could no longer straggle beyondtheir lines, either single or in small parties, without exposing themselves to themerciless retaliation of the Thracian peasants. An army of Bulgarians was at­tracted from the Danube by the gifts and promises of Leo; and these savage aux­iliaries made some atonement for the evils which they had inflicted on the em­pire, by the defeat and slaughter of twenty-two thousand Asiatics. A report wasdexterously scattered, that the Franks, the unknown nations of the Latin world,were arming by sea and land in the defence of the Christian cause, and their for­midable aid was expected with far different sensations in the camp and city. Atlength, after a siege of thirteen months,(2) the hopeless Moslemah received fromthe caliph the welcome permission of retreat- The march of the Arabian cavalryover the Hellespont, and through the provinces of Asia, was executed without de­lay or molestation; but an army of their brethren had been cut in pieces on theside of Bithynia, and the remains of the fleet were so repeatedly damaged by tem­pest and fire; that only five galleys entered the port of Alexandria to relate thetale of their various and almost incredible disasters. (3) In the two sieges, the deliverance of Constantinople may be chiefly ascribed tothe novelty, the terrors, and the real efficacy, of the GreekJire.{A) The import­ant secret of compounding and directing this artificial flame was imparted by Calli-nicus, a native of Heliopolis in Syria, who deserted from the service of the caliph tothat of the emperor. (5) The skill of a chemist and engineer was equivalent to thesuccour of fleets and armies; and this discovery or improvement of the military artwas fortunately reserved for the distressful period, when the degenerate Romans ofthe east were incapable of contending with the warlike enthusiasm and youthfulvigour of the Saracens. The historian who presumes to analyze this extraordinary venty pomegranates, a kid, six fowls, anil a huge quantity of the grapes of Taycf. If the bill of fere be correct,we must admire the appetite rather than the luxury of the sovereign of Asia. (Abulfeda, Annal. Moslem, p. 126.) (1) See the article of Omar Ben Abdalaziz. in the Bibliotheque Orientate, (p. 689,600.) prseferens, says Elma-cin, (p. 91.) religionem suam rebus suis mundanis. He was so desirous of being with God. that he would nothare anointed his ear (his own saying) to obtain a perfect cure of his last malady. The caliph had only oneshin, and in an age of luxury his annual expense was no more than two drachms. (Abalpharagius, p. WOHand diu gayisus eo princi-ne tilit orbis Moslemus. (Abulfeda, p. 127.) (2) Both Nicephorus and Theophanes agree, that the siege of Constantinople was raised the fifteenth of Au­gust: (A. D. 718.) but as the former, our best witness, affirms that it continued thirteen months, the latter mustbe mistaken in supposing that it began on the same day of the preceding year. I do not think that Pagi hasremarked this inconsistency. (3) In the second siege of Constantinople, I have followed Nicephorus, (Brer. p. 33—50.) Theophanes,(Chronograph, p. 321—334.) Cedrenus, (Compend. p. 449—452.) Zunar.is, (torn. ii. p. 98—102.) Eimacin,(Hist. Saracen, p. 88.) Abulfeda, (Annal. Moslem, p. 126.) and Abulpharagius. (Dynast, p. 130.) the most satis­factory of the Arabs. (4) Our sure and indefatigable guide in the middle ages and Byzantine History, Charles du Fresne du Cange,1ms treated in several places of the Greek fire, and his collections leave few gleanings behind. See particularlyGlossar. Med. et Infim. Graeettar. p. 1275. sub voce llvp faiwrtov uypav, Glossftr. Med. et lnfim. Latinitat. IffflisGrwcus. Observations sur Villehardonin, p. 305,306. Observations sur Joinville, p. 71,72. ° (5) Theophanes s yies him *(xitIX™ (n. 295.) Cedrenus (p. 437.) brings this artist from (the ruiits of) Hilit>-pons in *.gyp>; and chemistry was indeed the peculiar science of the Egyptians. / 1