OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rcjr taxes with which Maximin had loaded the rights of inheritance and"focceffion, were repealed, or at least moderated. Discipline wasrevived, and with the advice of the senate many wise laws were en­acted by their imperial ministers, who endeavoured to restore a civiFconstitution on the ruins of military tyranny. •* What reward may"we expect for delivering Rome from a monster?" was the questionasked by Maximus, in a moment of freedom and confidence. Bal-binus answered it without hesitation, *' The love of the senate, or'* the people, and of all mankind,*' "Alas!" replied his morepenetrating colleague, "Alas! I dread the hatred of the soldiers,"and the fatal effects of their resentment His apprehensions-were but too well justified by the event. Whilst Maximus was preparing to defend Italy against the com- Seditions w.mon foe, Balbinus, who remained at Rome, had been engaged in Rome*scenes of blood and intestine discord. Distrust and jealousy reignedin the senate; and even in the temples where they assembled, every-senator carried either open or concealed arms. In the midst of theirdeliberations, two veterans of the guards, actuated either by curiosity ora sinister motive, audacioufly thrust themselves into the house, andadvanced by degrees beyond the altar of Victory. Gallicanus, aconsular,, and Mæcenas, a Prætorian senator, viewed with indigna­tion their insolent intrusion: drawing their daggers they laid thespies, for such they deemed them, dead at the foot of the altar, andthen advancing to the door of the senate, imprudently exhorted themultitude to massacre the Prætorians, as the secret adherents of thetyrant. Those who escaped the first fury of the tumult took refugein the camp, which they defended with superior advantage againstthe reiterated attacks of the people, assisted by the numerous bandsof gladiators, the property of opulent nobles. The civil war lastedmany days, with infinite loss and confusion on both sides. When,the pipes were broken that supplied the camp with water, the Præ­torians were reduced to intolerable distress j but in their turn they made