OCR Output MIMACES. MINAEI. 857 Pfcddia, bordering upon Lycia, that is, the territoryextending from Termeasus northward to the foot ofmount Cadmus. (Polyb. v. 72; Strab. xii. p. 570,xiii. p. 631, xiv. p. 666.) This district, the westernpart of which, bore the name of Cabalia, U after­wards described, sometimes as a part of I.vein (Ptol.t. 3. § 7, 5. § 6), and sometimes as part of Pafn-phylia or Pisidia. (Ptol. r. 2. § 12; Plin. v. 42.)After the conquest of Antiochus the Great, the Ko-maus »ra the country to Eumcnes (Polyb. £xc. deLtg. 36), though Pisidian princes still continue to benvntkoed as its rulers. The greater part of Milyas was rugged andmountainous, but it also contained a few fertileplains. (Strab. xii. p. 570.) The inhabitantswere called Milyae. (MiAiiai, Herod, vii. 77; Strab.xiv. p. 667; Plin. v. 25, 42.) This name, whichdoes not occur in the Homeric poems, probably be­longed to the remnants of the ancient Solymi, theoriginal inhabitants of Lycia, who had been driveninto ibe mountains by the immigrating Cretans.The most important towns in Milyas were Cibyra,Oesoaxda, Baluira, and Bubos, which formedthe Cibyratian tetrapolis. Some authors also men­tion a town of Slilyas (Polyb. v. 72; Ptol. v. 2.§ 12; Steph. B. a. v. MiAvu), which must havebeen situated N. of Termessus in Pisidia. [L. S.] MIMACES (Mi'^oJcct), a people in Byzaciuin(PtiJ. iv. 3. § 26), and also in Libya Interior. (1'toLiv. 6. § 20.) [E. B. J.] MIMAS (■) Mi'uas), a mouutain range in Ionia,traversing the peninsula of Erythrae from south tonerth. it still bears its ancient name, under which ita mentioned in the Odyssey (iii. 172.) It is, pro­perly speaking, only a branch of Mount Tmolos, andwas celebrated in ancient times for its abundance ofwood and game (Strab. xiv. pp. 613, 645.) Thenetk at the south-western extremity of the peninsulafunned by Mount Mimas, a little to the north of Teas,is only about 7 Roman miles broad, and AlexandertheGreat intended to cut a canal through the isthmus,K u to connect the Caystrian and Hermaean bays;but it was one of the few undertakings in which hedid not succeed. (Plin. v. 31; Pans. ii. 1. § 5;eompvii. 4. § 1; Thucyd. viii. 34; O. Met. ii. 222;Atnm. Marc. xxxi. 42; Callim. llymn. in Del. 157;SO. ItaL ii. 494.) Mount Mimas forms three promontories in thepeninsula; in the south Corycenm (Koraka orKsrh>y, in the west Argennum {Cape Blanco),and in the north Melaena(A'aro Burnu"). Chandler(TrowZi, p. 213) describes the shores of MountMinus as covered with pines and shrubs, andpmi-bed with flWers, He passed many smallpleasant spots, well watered, and green with com orwith myrtles and shrubs. The summit of the moun­tain commands a magnificent view, extending overthe bays of Smyrna, Clazomenae, and Erythrae, theUUmds of Samoa, Chios, and several others. [I.. S.j MINAEI (Mfiraibi), a celebrated people of1"»wb. in the SW. of Arabia. Strabo namesthem first of four great nations situated in thisextremity of the peninsula, and bordering on theRed Sea: their principal town was Carna orCarina; next to these were the Sabaei, whoseeajjul was Mariaba. The Catabanes were thethini, extending to the straits and the passage oftbe Arabia,, Qulf—tie Straits of Bab-el Mandeb.Tbeir royal city was Tamna. To the east were theChatnmotitae, whose capital was named Cabatanum.Fnen Dana to the country of tlic Minaei was 70 days'journey. Thus far Strabo (xvi. pp. 768, 776);consistently with whose account, Ptolemy (vi. 7. §23)mentions the Minaei as a mighty people (MiwtTot,fjieya iQyos), bordering on the inner frankincensecountry, not far from the Sabaei, and places CarnaMetropolis in long. 73° 30", lat. 23° 15', which wouldbe on the coast of the Gulf of Arabia, distinct fromthe Camus or Carna above named, and identicalwith the Cornon of Pliny, a town of the Channaei,who were contiguous to the Minaei. Pliny representsthe Minaei as contiguous to the Atramitae in the in­terior; whii.li Atramitae—identical no doubt with theChatramotitae of Strabo—he represents as a branchof the Sabaei, which last tribe extended along bothseas, i. e. the Indian Ocean and the Arabian Gulf;and as the Camus,which he names as a city of thoSabaei, is doubtless the Carna which Strabo makesthe capital of the Minaei, he would seem to implythat these last were also another division of thosame principal tribe of the Sabaei. Their countrywas reported by Aelius Gallus to be exceedinglyrich. "Minaeis textiles agros palmetis arbustisquc,in pecore divitias." (Plin. vi. 32.) They are men­tioned by Diodorus (as Mivyatoi'), in connection withthe Gerrhaei, as transporting frankincense and otherscented wares from Upper Arabia (in ttjs a>w \e70-(UeVrfi Apa&as), i.e. the interior (iii. 42). All thesenotices would son e to fix the seat of this tribe at theSW. part of the peninsula, in the modem i'tmen. Plinysays that they were supposed to derive their originfrom Minos, the king of Crete, as their neighbours, theRhadamaei, were from his brother Rhadaniauthus(vi. 32), in which Mr. Forster thinks we may " easilyrecognise, under the thin veil of classical fiction, theimportant historical fact of the existence of on opentrade between the Greeks and Arabs from veryremote times, and of all the facilities implied by com­mercial intercommunity." {Arabia, vol. i. p. xxxvii.,ii. pp. 74, 75.) In his account of the myrrh andfrankincense, Pliny relates that this plant, whichgrew in the country of the Atramitae, one canton(pagus) of the Sabaei, was conveyed by one narrowpath through the neighbouring canton of the Minaei,who were the first to carry on the trade, and alwaysthe most active in it; from which fact the frankin­cense came to be called Miunoeum (xii. 30). Andin speaking of the various qualities of myrrh,he mentions second, " Minaca, in qna Atramitica,''as most esteemed next to the Troglodytica (xii.35). With regard to the position of this importanttribe in the modern map of Arabia, there is a widedifference of opinion among geographers. D'Anvillofinds their capital Carana in the modem Alnmka-rana, which is, ho says, a strong place. {Geoyraph,Anc. tome ii. p. 221; com p. forster, Arabia, vol. i.p. liii.) Gossclin contends that Almakarana is toofar south for the Carna of the Minaei, and is dis­posed to find this capital in Cam-al-Manazil, asBochart had suggested (Phafeg, lib. ii. cap. 22.p. 121); which Edrisi places two days* journeyfrom Melcka, on the road to Sanaa. (Gossdin,Recherches sur la Geographic des Ancietis, tome ii.p. 116.) Dean Vincent thus attempts to fix theirposition:—"The site of the Minneans is not easy tofix; but by a comparison of different accounts, theywere S. of Hedjaz, N. of Hadramaut, and to theeastward of Sabea; and they were the carriers to allthese provinces: their caravans passed in 70 daysfrom Nadramaui to Ailat as we learn from Strobo;and Aila is but 10 miles (?) from Pi'tra." lie re- a a a