OCR Output RHODUS. 715 RHOCONIS. tti'ej teal for literature, philosophy, and art. Thefiitetoal activity maintained itself in Rhodesat after it had died away in most other parts of flu bland of Rhodes, which appears even in therrst taditkn as extremely wealthy (Horn. II, CO; Pind. Otfmp. vii. 49; Philostr. Imag. ii.!\ it in many parts indeed rough and rocky, cspe-iilt the oast near the city of Rhodes, and the•oirt iboat Lindas, but on the whole it was er­ror!; fertile: its wine, dried raisins and figs, wereun Bteentd, and its saffron, oil, marble, achate,><:a, ud i-h, are often spoken of. The mostI'T.int productions of Rhodian industry werei'ja. anna, and military engines. Besides thekn already mentioned, the ancients notice Iliai Mnaiyriiun, two forts in the south, and a placeW Achaia. t< far the most important place was the city ofnaa at lbs north-eastern extremity of the island,ns oailt in b. c 408 upon a regular plan formedtbt architect Hippodamus, the same who builtI nlli of Peiraeeus. (Strab. xiv. p. 654; Diod.I »5, xi - . Harpocrat. ». r.; 'ImroJoUifio.) It■ outracted in the form of an amphitheatreia; fan the coast, and was protected by strongh mi towers, while nature provided it with twonrilent harbours. The acropolis rose at the south­ern extremity, and on the slope of it was the»trt According to Strabo, Rhotlus surpassed allar citiea for the beauty and convenience of itsV itretts, walls, and public edifices, all of whichb adorned with a profusion of works of art bothputting and sculpture. The principal statues» a the temple of Dionysus and the gymnasium;I the most extraordinary statue, which is de-'ari u one of the seven wonders of the ancient*i, was the brazen statue of Helios, commonly•d the Colossus of Rhodes. It was the work of■ra of Lindas, who employed upon its execu-I tirlre yean. It cost 300 talents, and wase»*«t» ia height: its gigantic size may be in-ni frtan the fact that few men were able towapaw one of its thumbs with their arms. (Plin.nr. 18; Strab. t c.) The Colossus stood at theme of one of the ports, but the statement that''•■! astride over the entrance, and that thef* diipa could sail between its legs, is in allahftty a mere fable. It was overthrown by anijrnte, 56 years after its erection, that is, in * H4. or according to others a few years later,hny promised the Rhodians, among other things, 0 talents far its restoration (Polyb. v. 89), but 1 aal not to have been attempted in consequence>T»c!e(Strab. L c). Later authorities, however, * «f it aa standing erect; the emperor Com­bs ia said u have ordered his own bust to be•F<*> H; and Cedrenns relates that a king of thehva sold the fragments to a merchant who■*ir& upwards of 900 camels to carry them * Notwithstanding the great splendour of the:U number of its inhabitants does not appear fart bam very great, for during the siege ofatrial Poliorcetes no more than 6000 citizensd1*- of bearing arms are mentioned. (Diod. xx.I Bat Rbodoa has nevertheless produced manyI af eminence in philosophy and literature, such''aurtiua, Stratocles, Andronicus, Eudemus,rr».Tmua, Peisander, Simniias, and Aristides;a Poaeidonias, Dionysins Thrax, and Apollonius,lined the Rhodian, resided in the island fur a considerable time. The present town of Rhodescontains very few remains of the ancient Greek city.(Comp, P. D. Paulsen, Descriptio Rkodi MacetLA.!<■',-, GBttingen, 1818; H. Rost, Hhodut, anHist. Arch. Fragment. Altona, 1823; Th. Menge,Vorgeschichte ron Khodus, Coin, 1827; Rottier,Descript. des Monuments de Rhodes, Bruxclles,1828; Ross, Reisen auf den Grieck. I no In. iii. pp.70—113, which, contains a good account of themiddle-age history and the present condition of theisland and city with maps and plans; Sestini, Mon.Pet, p. 91.) [L.&] COIN OF KHODUS. RHODUSSA, an island off the southern coast ofCaria, near the entrance of the port of l'anonnns.(Plin. v. 35 ; Staditum. Mar. Mag. p. 248, wherethe name is written 'PoiroDcra.) It is marked inmodem charts by the name of Limosa or Kara*gash. [L. S.] ItHODUSSAE, a group of small islands in thePropontis, south of Pityussa, is mentioned only byPliny (v. 44). [L. S.] RHOE (Piv), a place on the coast of Bithynia,20 stadia to the east of Calpe, on a steep promon­tory, contained a road fit only for small vessels.(Arrian, Peripl. P. E. p. 13; Anonym. Peripl. P. E.p. 3.) [L. S.] RHOETACES. [Auusia, p. 89, b.]RHOETEUXI (to 'Pohetov or 'Porrior S«v>oi<), apromontory, or rather a rocky headland, runuing outin several points in Mysia or Troas, at the entranceof the Hellespont, north of Ilion; it contained asmall town of the same name situated on an emi­nence. The place is very often mentioned by theancients. (Herod, vii. 43 ; Scylax, p. 35 ; Strab.xiii. p. 595; Steph. B. s. v.; Pomp. Mela, i. 18;Plin. v. 33; Thucyd. iv. 52, viii. 101 r Apollon.Rhod. i. 929; Tryphiod. 216; Virg. Aen. vi. 595;Liv. xxxvii. 37.) The promontory is now calledfntepeh, and the site of the ancient town is believedto be occupied by Paleo Castro, near the villageof It-ghelmcs. (Richter, Wallfahrten, p. 475;Leake, Asia Minor, p. 275.) [L. S.] RHOGANA ('Pdyartt, l'tol. vi. 8. § 7; Marcian,Peripl. i. § 28, cd. Miiller), a small place on thecoast of Carmania, between the promontories ofCarpella and Alambater. It is perhaps the sameplace as the Gogana of Arrian. [Gocana.] [V.]RHOGANDA'JTI (TVyoyoaiw, PtoL vii. 4. § 9),a tribe of ancient Ceylon, at the southern end of theisland. Ptolemy mentions that in this part of theisland were the best pastures for the elephants,which is the case, too, at the present time. [V.] RHOGE CVJryri), an island off the coast ofLycia, not far from the entrance of the PhoenicusPortus. (Plin. v. 35: Steph. B. s. r.; Stadiasm.Mar. Mag. §§ 217, 218, where it is called Rhope,•Pdmj.) [L. S.] RHO'GONIS CVdryovit, Arrian, Ind. c. 39), ariver of ancient I'ersis, which flows into the Persian