OCR Output 410 [book xi. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. honour a man whom thou dost love, give or­der that he may ride on horseback, with thesame garment which thou wearest, and witha gold chain about his neck; and let one ofthy intimate friends go before him, and pro­claim through the whole city, that whosoeverthe king honoureth, obtaineth this mark ofhis honour."* This was the advice whichHaman gave, out of a supposal that such re­ward would come to himself.f Hereuponthe king was pleased with the advice, andsaid, "Go thou, therefore, for thou hast thehorse, the garment, and the chain. Ask forMordecai the Jew, and give him those things;and go before his horse, and proclaim accor­dingly: for thou art my intimate friend, andhast given me good advice. Be thou then*he minister of what thou hast advised: forthis shall be his reward from us, for preserv­ing my life." When he heard this order,which was entirely unexpected, he was con­founded in his mind, and knew not what todo. However he went out, and led the horse4and took the purple garment, and the goldenchain for the neck: and finding Mordecai * Esther vi. 6—9. t To form a notion of that height of pride and arro-pnnce, to which Haman, (who thought all the honours hespecifieJ were designed for him) was arrived, we mayobserve, that for any one to put on the royal robe, with­out the privity and consent of the king, was, among thePersians, accounted a capital crime. To which purposePlutarch, in his life of Artaxerxes, has related this story:—" That one day, when in hunting, the king happenedto tear his garment, and Tiribazus was telling him of it,the king asked him, what he should do? Why, put onanother, says Tiribazus, and give that to me. That I will,says the king, but then I enjoin you not to wear it. Tiri­bazus, however, who was a good kind of man enough, buta little weak and silly, adventured to put it on, with all itsfine ornaments; and when some of the nobles began toresent it, as a thing not lawful for any subject to do, Iallow him, says the king, laughing at the figure he made,to wear the fine trinkets as a woman, and the robe as amadman;" Le Clerc's Commentary. There was a custom,not unlike this, among the Hebrews, as appears from thehistory of Solomon, 1 Kings i. 33. for the person that wasdeclared to be successor to the crown, on the day of hisinauguration, to be mounted on the king's horse: and, tothe like custom among the Persians, it is highly probable,that the poet Statius, in his description of a young kingsucceeding to his father's throne, may allude.Sicut Ahaemenius solium gentesque paternasExcepit si forte puer, cui vivere patremTutius, incerta formidine gaudia librat,An fidi proceres, an pugnet vulgus habenis,Cui latus Euphratae, cui Caspia limina mandet,Samere nunc arcus, ipsumque onerare veretur before the court, clothed in sackcloth, hebade him put that garment off, and put thepurple garment on. But Mordecai, not know­ing the truth of the matter, but thinking thatit was done in mockery, said, "O thouwretch, the vilest of all mankind: dost thouthus laugh at our calamities?" But when hewas satisfied that the king bestowed thishonour upon him, for the deliverance he hadprocured him when he convicted the eunuchs,who had conspired against him, he put onthat purple garment which the king alwayswore; and put the chain about his neck; andgot on horseback, and went round the city:while Haman went before, and proclaimed,"This shall be the reward which the kingwill bestow on every one whom he loves, andesteems worthy of honour." And when theyhad gone round the city, Mordecai went into the king. But Haman went home out ofshame; and informed his wife and friends ofwhat had happened, and this with tears: up­on which they said, he would never be ableto be revenged on Mordecai; for that Godwas with him.|| Patris equum, visusque sibi nee sceptra capaciSustentare manu, nee adhuc implere tiaram. Thebaid. lib. 8. B.J Commentators arc not agreed whether this crownwas placed upon the king's head, or his horse's. Thosewho refer it to the king, will have it to be what we call aturban, made of fine white and pure linen, which it wasdeath for any one to put on his head, without the king'sexpress order; to which purpose Arrian (Alex, exped.lib. 7.) tells us this story :—" That as Alexander was sail­ing on the Euphrates, and his turban happened to fall offamong some reeds, one of the watermen immediatelyjumped in and swam to it; but as he could not bring itback in his hand without wetting it, he put it upon hishead, and so returned with it. Whereupon most histo­rians that have wrote of Alexander (says he) tells us, thathe gave him a talent of silver for this expression of hiszeal to serve him, but, at the same time, ordered his headto be struck off for presuming to put on the royal diadem."Other commentators are of opinion, that this Keter, whichwe render crown, being a word of a large signification,will equally denote that ornament which the horse thatthe king rode, wore upon his head. As it must be acknow­ledged, that this application of the thing agrees betterwith the signification and order of the Hebrew words;with the following verses, wherein no mention is made olthe Keter, but only of the robe and the horse to whichthis crown belonged; and with the custom of the Persians »who used to put a certain ornament, in Italian calledfiocco, upon the head of that hor?r whereon the king wasmounted. Le Clerc's and Patrick's Commentaries; andPool's Annotations. B.I I Esther vi. 13.