OCR Output CHAP. LII. 507 dained by their own writers, who were ignorant of thefame of Jupiter and Minos, but it had not been over­looked by the Byzantine historians, who now begin tocast a clearer light on the affairs of their own times.1A band of Andalusian volunteers, discontented with theclimate or government of Spain, explored the adven­tures of the sea; but as they sailed in no more than tenor twenty galleys, their warfare must be branded withthe name of piracy. As the subjects and sectaries ofthe white party, they might lawfully invade the domi­nions of the black caliphs. A rebellious faction intro­duced them into Alexandria ;ra they cut in pieces bothfriends and foes, pillaged the churches and the moschs,sold above six thousand Christian captives, and main­tained their station in the capital of Egypt, till theywere oppressed by the forces and the presence of Al-mamon himself. From the mouth of the Nile to theHellespont the islands and sea-coasts both of the Greeksand Moslems were exposed to their depredations; theysaw, they envied, they tasted, the fertility of Crete, andsoon returned with forty galleys to a more serious attack.The Andalusians wandered over the land fearless andunmolested; but when they descended with their plun­der to the sea-shore, their vessels were in flames, andtheir chief, Abu Caab, confessed himself the author ofthe mischief. Their clamours accused his madness ortreachery: Of what do you complain? replied the crafty 3. p. 343—544.) Although Crete is styled by Homer, nitipx, by Dionysius Xmttfn« xai suBm;. 1 cannot conceive that mountainous island to surpass, or equal, infertility, the greater part of Spain. 1 The most authentic and circumstantial intelligence is obtained from the fourbooks of the Continuation of Theophanes, compiled by the pen or the command ofConstantine Porphyrogenitus, with the life of his father Basil the Macedonian.(Scriptores post Theophanem, p. 1—162. a Francis. Combesis, Paris, 1685.) Theloss of Crete and Sicily is related, lib. 2. p. 46—52. To these we may add thesecondary evidence of Joseph Genesius, (lib. 2. p. 21. Venet. 1733.) GeorgeCedrenus, (Compend. p. 506—508.) and John Scylitzes Curopalata. (apud Baron.Annal. Eccles. A. 13. 827, no. 24, &c.) But the modern Greeks are such noto­rious plagiaries, that I should only quote a plurality of names. m Renaudot (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 251—256. 268—270.) has described theravages of the Andalusian Arabs in Egypt, but has forgot to connect them with theconquest of Crete.