OCR Output 20f5 THE DECLINE AND FALL The attemptand sail ot'.Quintilius. April. Origin andservices ofAurelian. snatched Claudius from the earth, rewarded his merit and piety bythe perpetual establishmenfof the empire in his family Notwithstanding these oracles, the greatness of the Flavian family (aname which it had pleased them to assume) was deferred above twentyyears, and the elevation of Claudius occasioned the immediate ruinof his brother Quintilius, who possessed not sufficient mpderationor courage to descend into the private station to which the patriot­ism of the late emperor had condemned him. Without delay or re­flection, he assumed the purple at Aquileia, where he commandeda considerable force; and though his reign lasted only seventeendays, he had time to obtain the sanction of the senate, and to ex­perience a mutiny of the troops. As soon as he was informed thatthe great army of the Danube had invested the well known valourof Aurelian with imperial power, he funk under the fame and meritof his rival; and ordering his veins to be opened, prudently with­drew himself from the unequal contest ,si. The general design of this work will not permit us minutely torelate the actions of every emperor after he ascended the throne,much less to deduce the various fortunes of his private life. Weshall only observe, that the father of Aurelian was a peasant of theterritory of Sirmium, who occupied a small farm, the property ofAurelius, a rich senator. His warlike son inlisted in the troops as acommon soldier, successively rose to the rank of a centurion, a tri­bune, the præfect of a legion, the inspector of the camp, the gene­ral, or as it was then called, the duke of a frontier; and at length,during the Gothic war, exercised the important office of commanderin chief of the cavalry. In every station he distinguished himselfby matchless valour '7, rigid discipline, and successful conduct. Hewas invested with the consulffiip by the emperor Valerian, who styleshim, in the pompous language of that age, the deliverer of Illyri-cum, the restorer of Gaul, and the rival of the Scipios. At the re­commendation of Valerian, a senator of the highest rank and merit, Ulpius