OCR Output A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS. "cancel what had been settled by an injured em-"peror." From this time Decius Silanus lived atRome, a private citizen, without honours or prefer­ment. XXV. The next care of the senate was to soften therigour of the law Papia Poppsea; a law made by Au­gustus in the decline of life, when the Julian institu­tions were found ineffectual. The policy was, toenforce, by additional sanctions, the penalties of celi­bacy, and thereby increase the revenue. Marriage,however, was not brought into fashion. To be with­out heirs was still considered as a state that gave greatadvantages. Prosecutors multiplied, and numberswere every day drawn into danger. Informers were,the interpreters of justice; and chicane and malicewrought the ruin of families. The community la­boured, at first, under the vices of the times, alidafterwards, under the snares of law. From this re­flection if we here go back to trace the origin of civilinstitutions, and the progress of that complex systemwhich has grown up to harass mankind, the digressionwill not be incurious, nor altogether foreign to ourpurpose. , ' * XXVI. In the early ages of the world, men led alife of innocence and simplicity. Free from irregularpassions, they knew no corruption of manners; andvoid of guilt, they had no need of laws. In the na­tural emotion of the heart they found incitements tovirtue, and rewards were unnecessary. Having noinordinate desires, they coveted nothing, and pains'and penalties were unknown. In process of time, whenall equality was overturned, and, in the place of tem­perance and moderation, ambition and violence beganto trample on the rights of man; then monarchy wasestablished, in several nations unlimited, absolute,and flourishing at this hour. Some states, indeed, intheir first formation, or, at least, soon after they hadmade an experiment of kings, preferred a governmentby law; and law, in its origin, was like the mannersof the age, plain and simple. Of the several politicalconstitutions known in the world, that of Crete, esta­blished by Minos; that of Sparta, by Lycurgns; and