OCR Output NOTES ON THE Si: TEENTH CHAPTER. Ixxxi F.mong the more learned catholics. They now re­quire, as a proof of sanctity and martyrdom, theletters B M, a viol full of red liquor, supposed tobe blood, or the figure of a palm-tree. But thetwo former signs are of little weight, and with re­gard to the last, it is observed by the critics, i. Thatthe figare, as it is called, of a palm, is perhaps acypress, and perhaps only a stop, the flourish of acomma used in the monumental inscriptions.2. That the palm was the symbol of victory amongthe Pagans. 3. That among the christians it servedas the emblem, not only of martyrdom, but in ge­neral of a joyful resurrection. See the epistle ofP. Mabillon, on the worship of unknown saints,and Muratori sopra le Antichita ltaliane, Dissertat.lviii. [7?] As a specimen os these legends, we may besatisfied with io.coo christian soldiers crucified inone day, either by Trajan or Hadrian, on mountArarat. See Baronius ad Martyrologium Roma-num. Tillemont, Mem. Ecclesiast. torn. ii. partii. p. 438. and Geddes's Miscellanies, vol. ii. p.203. The abbreviation of Mil. which may sig­nify either soldiers or thousands, is said to have oc­casioned some extraordinary mistakes. [74] Dionysius ap. Euseb. I. vi. c. 41, One ofthe seventeen was likewise accused of robbery. [7;] The letters of Cyprian exhibit a very ca­rious and original picture, both of the man and ofthe times. See likewise the two lives of Cyprian,composed with equal accuracy, though with verydifferent views; the one by Le Clerc, (Bibliothe-que Universelle, torn. xii. p. 208—378.) the otherby Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiqnes, torn. iv.part i. p. 76—459. [76] See the polite but severe epistle of the clergyof Rome, to the bishop of Carthage (Cyprian Epist.8, 9.). Pontius labours with the greatest care anddiligence to justify his master against the generalcensure. [77] In particular those of Dionysius of Alex­andria, and Gregory Thaumaturgus of Neo-Caesa-rea. See Euseb. Hist. Ecclesiast. 1. vi. c. 40. andMemoires de Tillemont, torn. iv. part ii. p. 685. [78] See Cyprian, Epist. 16. and his life byPontius.Vol. I. [79] We have an original life of Cyprian by thedeacon Pontius, the companion of his exile, andthe spectator of his death; and we likewise possessthe ancient proconsular acts of his martyrdom.These two relations are consistent with each other,, and with probability; and what is somewhat re­markable, they are both unsullied by any miracu­lous circumstances. [80] It should seem that these were circular or­ders, sent at the same time to all the governors.Dionysius (ap. Euseb. I. vii. c. 11.) relates the historyof his own banishment from Alexandria, almost inthe same manner. But as he escaped and survivedthe persecution, we must account him either more, oras he considered it himself, lesj fortunate thanCyprian. [Si] See Plin. Hist. Natur. v. 3. Cellarius, Geo-graph. Antiq. part iii. p. 96. Shaw's Travels, p.90.; and for the adjacent country, (which is ter­minated by Cape Bona, or the promontory of Mer­cury) l'Afrique de Marmot, torn. ii. p. 474. Thereare the remains of an aqueduct, near Curubis, orCurbis, at present altered into Gurbes; and Dr.Shaw read an inscription, which styles that city,Colonia Fulvia. The deacon Pontius (in Vit. Cy­prian, c. 12.) calls it " ApricUm et competententlocum, hofpitium pro voluntate secretum, et quic-quid apponi eis ante promissum est, qui regnum etjullitiam Dei quærunt." [82] See Cyprian. Epistol. 77. Edit. Fell. [83] Upon his conversion he had fold those gar­dens for the benefit of the poor. The indulgenceof God (most probably the liberality of some chris­tian friend) restored them to Cyprian. See Pontius,c. 15. [84] When Cyprian, a twelvemonth before, wassent into exile, he dreamt that he mould be put todeath the next day. The event made it necessary toexplain that word, as signifying a year. Pontius,c. iz. [85] Pontius (c. 15.) acknowledges that Cy­prian, with whom he supped, passed the nightcustodiu delicata. The Bishop exercised a last andvery proper act os jurisdiction, by [directing thatthe younger females, who watched in the street,should be removed from the dangers and tempta-1 tions