OCR Output 58 LIVY. also got into his hands some towns of the Dassare-tians, and was besides endeavoring to persuade theDardanians to take arms. In consequence of this in­telligence, dropping the prosecution of the war be­tween the Achaeans and iEtolians, but leaving how­ever two thousand five hundred soldiers, of one sort orother, under the command of Menippus and Polyphan-tas, to assist his allies, he marched away from Dymae,through Achaia, Boeotia, and Euboea, and on the tenthday arrived at Demetrias in Thessaly. Here he wasmet by other couriers, with accounts of still more dan­gerous commotions; that the Dardanians, pouring intoMacedonia, had already seized on Orestis, and marcheddown into the plain of Argestee, and that a report pre­vailed among the barbarians that Philip had beenslain. This rumor was occasioned by the followingcircumstance:—In his expedition against the plunder­ing parties near Sicyon, being carried by the impetu­osity of his horse against a tree, a projecting branchbroke off one of the side ornaments of his helmet,which being found by an iEtolian, and carried intojEtolia to Scerdilaedus, who knew it to be the cogni­sance of the king, it was supposed that he was killed.After Philip's departure from Achaia, Sulpicius, sail­ing to jEgina, joined his fleet to that of Attalus. TheAchasans gained the victory in a battle with the JEto-lians and Eleans, fought near Messene. King Attalusand Publius Sulpicius wintered at jEgina. 33. Towards the close of this year the consul TitusQuinttus Crispinus, after having nominated Titus JVIan-lius Torquatus dictator, to preside at the elections, andsolemnise the games, died of his wounds, according tosome writers, atTarentum, according to others in Cam­pania. Thus was there a concurrence of events, suchas had never been experienced in any former war,while the two consuls being slain, without havingfought any memorable battle, left the commonwealth,as it were, fatherless. The dictator Manlius appointedCains Servilius, then curule edile, his master of thehorse. The senate, on the first day of its meeting,