OCR Output Chap.'VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 301 coming daily more apparent—-it was not only impossible to vVant of asecure his communications and supplies in presence of the fleet,ships of the enemy and the numerous pirates, but impos­sible to recover even the Piraeus, to say nothing of Asiaand the islands; and yet it was difficult to see how ships ofwar were to be got. As early as the winter of 667-8 Sulla 87-86.had despatched one of his ablest and most expert officers,Lucius Licinius Lucullus, into the eastern waters, to raiseships there if possible. Lucullus put to sea with six openboats, which he had borrowed from the Rhodians and othersmall communities; he himself merely by an accident es­caped from a piratic squadron, which captured most of hisboats; deceiving the enemy by changing his vessels hearrived by way of Crete and Cyrene at Alexandria; but theEgyptian court rejected his request for the support of shipsof war with equal courtesy and decision. Hardly anythingillustrates so clearly as does this fact the sad decay of theRoman state, which had once been able gratefully to declinethe offer of the kings of Egypt to assist the Romans withall their naval force, and now itself seemed to the Alexan­drian statesmen bankrupt. To all this fell to be added thefinancial embarrassment; Sulla had already been obliged toempty the treasuries of the Olympian Zeus, of the DelphicApollo, and of the Epidaurian Asklepios, for which the godswere compensated by the moiety, confiscated by way ofpenalty, of the Theban territory. But far worse than all thismilitary and financial perplexity was the reaction of thepolitical revolution in Rome; the rapid, sweeping, violentaccomplishment of which had far surpassed the worst appre­hensions. The revolution conducted the government in thecapital; Sulla had been deposed, his Asiatic command hadbeen intrusted to the democratic consul Marcus ValeriusFlaccus, who might be daily looked for in Greece. Thesoldiers had no doubt adhered to Sulla, who made everyeffort to keep them in good humour; but what could beexpected, when money and supplies were wanting, whenthe general was deposed and proscribed, when his successorwas on the way, and, in addition to all this, the war againstthe tough antagonist who commanded the sea was protractedwithout prospect of a close? King Mithradates undertook to deliver his antagonist from Pontichis perilous position. He it was to all appearance, who armies enterdisapproved the defensive system of his generals and sent Greece-