OCR Output 64 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. with the peoples of Turan, on the other with the Occi­dentals. The Syrian state embraced at the most Mesopo­tamia in addition to the region of the coast, and disappeared,more in consequence of its internal disorganization than ofits diminished size, for ever from the ranks of the greatstates. If the danger—which was repeatedly imminent—ofa total subjugation of the land by the Parthians wasaverted, that result must be ascribed not to the resistance ofthe last Seleucidae and still less to the influence of Rome,but rather to the manifold internal disturbances in theParthian empire itself, and above all to the incursions ofthe peoples of the Turanian steppes into its eastern pro­vinces.Reaction of ^is revolution in the relations of the peoples in thethe East interior of Asia is the turning-point in the history of anti-against the quity. The tide of national movement, which had hithertoWest- poured from the west to the east and had found in Alex­ ander the Great its last and highest expression, was followedby the ebb. On the establishment of the Parthian statenot only were such Hellenic elements as may still perhapshave been preserved in Bactria and along the Indus lost,but western Iran also relapsed into the track which hadbeen abandoned for centuries but still was not yet oblite­rated. The Roman senate sacrificed the first essential resultof the policy of Alexander, and thereby paved the way forthat retrograde movement, whose last offshoots ended inthe Alhambra of Granada and in the great Mosque of Con­stantinople. So long as the country from Ragae andPersepolis to the Mediterranean obeyed the king ofAntioch, the power of Rome extended to the border of thegreat desert; the Parthian state could never take its placeamong the dependencies of the Mediterranean empire, notbecause it was so very powerful, but because it bad itscentre far from the coast in the interior of Asia. Since thetime of Alexander the world had obeyed the Occidentalsalone, and the East seemed to be for these merely whatAmerica and Australia afterwards became for the Euro­peans. "With Mithradates I. the East re-entered the sphereof political movement. The world had again two masters.Maritime It remains that we glance at the maritime relations of thisrelations. period; although there is hardly anything to be said, exceptthat there no longer existed anywhere a naval power.Carthage was annihilated: the war-fleet of Syria was de­