OCR Output TALAESTIXA.TALAESTINA. 519 Jit pat Human (Jrbti-tt-Sheich) rises highsV.ii tin etaer moan tains. Tbt nBrji in bo longer inhospitable ravines;Ifcf burnt Jong and broad, and partly form plainsiflap oust, u Ksdraelon. A beautiful pasturejsl mrad» to the heights of the mountains. Con-uttnblt smntsio ttreams water the valleys. 11) To the east of this mountain chain lies the•Ik; of the Jordan, the most remarkable of alllawi drorenioss of the earth, as well on accountc a pert length ss of its almost incredible depth.> Mow, HI. ltd IV.] li) Ok the east of the Dead Sea and the Jordan<itn, sua tht sss of Tiberias, rises like a wall aa*f msatsis range of Jura limestone. On the«e a'lha ie> s broad plateau inhabited by nomadicintt lad itaaonsrj tribes. The southern part oftax highlands is known by the name of JebtlMU; farther north, beyond the Zerka, in theasttarlwd of the lofty Ajlim, it meets theMrusss of Kt-Zoutil; and still further northlarai the well known plateau Et-llauran, which,atiiias1 chiefly by Arabs and Druses, is boundedk i&iicans* and the Syrian desert, joins the pla­sm of Duaucos, and there reaches a height ofMM fans feet shore the sea. III. TitE Jordan. 7b snt celebrated river of Judaea, and the only•n* of sit considerable size in the country. Itsf has not been successfully investigated byrepose a compound of Yor ando fountains bearing these names,ass stick lbs river derived its origin and appella­tors & Jerome (OmnxatL s. v. Dan) derives it tJtr. which he says is equivalent to frudpov,K «s /Asa the city, where one of its principal**sos w» situated. But there are serious ob-kckss to bxh parts of this derivation. For in the r?on yK\ is the Hebrew form of the equivalentJ^m, while the proper name is always JTV,jyTX', as the proposed etymology would: *hde the name Dan, as applied to the cityk a five centuries Liter than the first mention • met in the book of Genesis; and the theoryfractal**) in the numerous passages of the Pen- is which it occurs is scarcely admissiblexviiL; 6'ew. xiii. 10, xxxii. 10; Job,91 ahhoogh Pan is certainly so used in at(Cea. xiy. 14.) Besides which, • ai remarked that the rowel always writtenI syllable of the river is different from '«*»■ aoDosyllabic city, ft, and not |"J. He^"H* laoier derivation from the root TV, de-"«War. so denoting a ricer, as this, injjkp *itk other rivers which he instances, might■■aVi air' ('{orvrr: and as Josephus does call itW.*rt**', without any distinctive name (Antinscribing the borders of Issacbar.'» sao adopted by Gesenius, Lee, abd other (Lee, Lexiam, t. s\)■saBce of this river is a question involved inr in the ancient records; and there is! ten of Josephus, which has addedIs the difficulty. The subject was^*»wir»!ed by the writer in 1842, and the c stated below,> Jwlsa has three principal sources: (1) atT, th> uca-ct Cacsarea I'kilippi; ("() at Tell- el-Kadi, the site of the ancient Dan, about twomiles to the west of Banuu; (3) at flatbeia, somedistance to the north of Tell-eUKadi. These severalsources require distinct notice, 1. The fountain at Banieu is regarded by Josephusand others as the proper source of the Jordan, butnot with sufficient reason. It is indeed a copiousfountain, springing out from the earth in a wideand rapid but shallow stream, in front of a caveformerly dedicated to Pan; but not at all in themanner described by Josephus, who speaks of ayawning chasm in the cave itself, and an unfathom­able depth of still water, of which there is neithorappearance nor tradition at present, the cave itselfbeing perfectly dry. {Bett. Jud. i. 21. § 3.) Hestates, however, that it is a popular error to con­sider this as the source of the Jordan. Its truesource, he subsequently says (iii. 9. § 7), was ascer­tained to be at Phiala, which he describes as a cir­cular pool, 120 stadia distant from Caesareia, notfar from the road that led to Trachonitis, i. e. tothe east. This pool, he says (named from its form),was always full to the brim, but never overflowed,and its connection with the fountain at Paneas wasdiscovered by Herod Philip the tetrarch in the fol­lowing manner: — He threw chart* into the lakePhiala, which made its appearance again at thefountain of Paneas. This circular, goblet-shapedpool, about a mile in diameter, is now called Birktl-er-Iiam. It is situated high in a bare mountainregion, and strongly resembles the crater of an ex­tinct volcano. It is a curious error of Irhy andMangles to represent the surrounding hills as"richly wooded" (TravtU, p. 287). The water isstagnant, nor is tbero any appearance or reportamong the natives of any stream issuing from thelake, or of any subterranean communication withthe fountain of Paneas. The above-named travel­lers correctly represent it as having "no apiiarentsupply or discharge." The experiment of Philip istherefore utterly unintelligible, as there is no streamto carry off the chaff. (For a view of Phiala, seeTraill's Jostphut, voL ii. p. 46, and lxxx. &c.) 2. The second fountain of the Jordan is at Tell-tl-Kadi. [Dan.] This is almost equally copiouswith the first-named; and issues from the earth in arapid stream on the western side of the woody hill,on which traces of the city may still he discovered.The stream bears the ancient name of the town,and is called Nahr Leddn, " the river Letlun" some­times misunderstood by travellers as the ancientname of the river, which certainly no longerexists among the natives. This is plainly theDaphne of Josephus, "having fountains, which,feeding what is called the little Jordan, under thetemple of the golden calf, discharge it into thegreat Jordan." (Bell. Jud. iv. 1. § 1, conf. Ant.viu. 8. § 4; and soe Reland, Palaeitma, p. 263.) 3. A mile to the west of Tell-el-Kadi, runs theNahr Matbany, the ffasbeia river, little inferior toeither of the former. It rises 6 or 8 miles to thenorth, near the large village of llaabda, and beingjoined in its course by a stream from Mount lier-mon, contributes considerably to the bulk of theJordan. It is therefore somewhat remarkable thatthis tributary has been unnoticed until compara­tively modern times. (Kobinson, Bib. 1U». vol. iii.p. 354, note 2.) These three principal sources of the Jordan, asthe natives affirm, do not intermingle their watersuntil they meet in the small lake now called Bair- I. l. 4 i