OCR Output [CHAP. XLII. OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. less congenial than that of Europe, to military spirit:those populous countries were enervated by luxury, des­potism, and superstition; and the monks were moreexpensive and more numerous than the soldiers of theeast. The regular forpe of the empire had once amountedto six hundred and forty-five thousand men: it was re­duced, in the time of Justinian, to one hundred andfifty thousand; and this number, large as it may seem,was thinly scattered over the sea and land; in Spain andItaly, in Africa and Egypt, , on the banks of the Danube,the coast of the Euxine, and the frontiers of Persia.The citizen was exhausted, yet the soldier was unpaid;his poverty was mischievously soothed by the privilegeof rapine and indolence; and the tardy payments weredetained and intercepted by the fraud of those agentswho usurp, without courage or danger, the emolumentsof war. Public and private distress recruited the armiesof the state; but in the field, and still more in the pre­sence of the enemy, their numbers were always defective.The want of national spirit was supplied by the preca­rious faith and disorderly service of barbarian mercen­aries. Even military honour, which has often survivedthe loss of virtue and freedom, was almost totally extinct.The generals, who were multiplied beyond the, exampleof former times, laboured only to prevent the success,, orto sully the reputation, of their colleagues; and theyhad been taught by experience, that if merit sometimesprovoked the jealousy, error, or even guilt, would ob­tain the indulgence, of a gracious emperor.d In suchan age the triumphs of Belisarius, and afterward ofNarses, shine with incomparable lustre; but they areencompassed with the darkest shades of disgrace andcalamity. While the lieutenant of Justinian subdued yaorat \somiurai;. This Inst epithet of Procopius is too nobly translated by pirates;naval thieves is the proper words: strippers of garments, eitlierfor injury or insult.(Demosthenes contra Conon. in Reiske Orator. Grace, torn. 2. p. 1264.) * d See the third and fourth boots of the Gothic War: the writer of the Anecdotescaunot aggravate these abuses.' ''. VOL. V. P