OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 181 host of heaven presumes not to behold? HE, who dwellsin heaven, condescends this day to visit us by his venerableimage; HE, who is seated on the cherubim, visits us thisday by a picture, which the Father has delineated withhis immaculate hand, which he has formed in an ineffablemanner, and which we sanctify by adoring it with fearand love. Before the end of the sixth century, theseimages, made without hands (in Greek it is a singleword'), were propagated in the camps and cities of theeastern empire ;m they were the objects of worship, andthe instruments of miracles; and, in the hour of3 danger or tumult, their venerable presence couldrevive the hope, rekindle the courage, or repress the fury,of the Roman legions. Of these pictures, the far greaterpart, the transcripts of a human pencil , could only pretendto a secondary likeness and improper title: but therewere some of higher descent, who derived their resem­blance from an immediate contact with the original,endowed, for that purpose, with a miraculous and pro­lific virtue. The most ambitious aspired from a filialto a fraternal relation with the image of Edessa; andsuch is the veronica of Rome, or Spain, or Jerusalem,which Christ in his agony and bloody sweat appliedto his face, and delivered to a holy matron. Thefruitful precedent was speedily transferred to the Vir­gin Mary," and the saints and martyrs. In the churchof Diospolis, in Palestine, the features of the motherof God "were deeply inscribed on a marble column: See Duncage, in Gloss. GKEC. et Lat. The subject is treatedwith equal learning and bigotry by the Jesuit Grctsrr, (Syntagma de Imaginibusnon .Mann factis, ad calcem Codini de Officiis. p. 289 — 330.) the ass, or ratherthe fox, of Ingoldstadt (see the Scaligerana ; ) with equal reason and wit by theProtestant Beausobre, in the ironical controversy which he has spread throughmany volumes of the Bibliotheque Germanique. (torn. 1. p. 18 — 50. 20. p. V —68. 25. p. 1 — 46. 27. p. 85—112. 28. p. 1—33. 31. p. 111—148. 32. p. 75— 107.34. p. 67—96.) "Theophylact Simocatta (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 34. lib. 3. c. 1. p. 63.) celebrates theBmifour uiUTfut, which he styles a)fiifmairm; yet it was no more than a copy,since he adds apxtmr.,v TO txtim a Fx/juuai (of Edessa) fipnffiuunxri TI affwra. SeePagi, torn. 2. A.D. 586. no. 11. 0 See in the genuine or supposed works of John Damascenus, two passages onthe Virgin and St. Luke, which have not been noticed by Greteer, nor consequentlyhy Beausobre. (Opera, Job. Damascen. torn. 1, p. 618. 631.)