OCR Output . OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. IS ter this popular concession, Justinian proceeded to the hippodrome to confess hisown errors, and to accept the repentance of his grateful subjects; but they distrust­ed his assurances, though solemnly pronounced in the presence of the holy gospels;and the emperor, alarmed by their distrust, retreated with precipitation to thestrong fortress of the palace. The obstinacy of the tumult was now imputed to asecret and ambitious conspiracy, and a suspicion was entertained, that the insur­gents, more especially the green faction, had been supplied with arms and moneyby Hypatius and Pompcy, two patricians, who could neither forget with honour,nor remember with safety, that they were the nephews of the emperor Anastasius.Capriciously trusted, disgraced, and pardoned, by the jealous levity of the mo­narch, they had appeared as loyal servants before the throne; and, during fivedays of the tumult, they were detained as important hostages; till at length, thefeat's of Justinian prevailing over his prudence, he viewed the two brothers in thelight of spies, perhaps of assassins, and sternly commanded them to depart fromthe palace. After a fruitless representation, that obedience might lead to involun­tary treason, they retired to their houses, and in the morning of the sixth day, Hy­patius was surrounded and seized by the people, who, regardless of his virtuous rc-sistance^and the tears of his wife, transported their favourite to the forum of Con-stantine, and, instead of a diadem, placed a rich collar on his head. If the usurper,•who afterward pleaded the merit of his delay, had complied with the advice of thesenate, and urged the fury of the multitude, their first irresistible effort might haveoppressed or expelled his trembling competitor. The Byzantine palace enjoyed afree communication with the sea; vessels lay ready at the garden stairs; and a se­cret resolution was already formed, to convey the emperor with his family andtreasures to a safe retreat, at some distance from the capital. Justinian was lost, if the prostitute whom he raised from the theatre had not re­nounced the timidity, as well as the virtues, of her sex. In the midst of a council,where Belisarius was present, Theodora alone displayed the spirit of a hero; andshe alone, without apprehending his future hatred, could save the emperor fromthe imminent danger, and his unworthy fears. " If flight," said the consort of Jus­tinian, " were the only means of safety, yet I should disdain to fly. Death is thecondition of our birth; but they who have reigned should never survive the loss cfdignity and dominion. I implore Heaven that I may never be seen, not a day,•without my diadem and purple; that I may no longer behold the light, when icease to be saluted with the name of queen. If you resolve, O Caesar! to fly, youhave treasures; behold the sea, you have ships: but tremble lest the desire of lifeshould expose you to wretched exile and ignominious death. . For my own part, Iadhere to the maxim of antiquity, that the throne is a glorious sepulchre." Thefirmness of a woman restored the courage to deliberate and act, and courage soondiscovers the resources of the most desperate situation. It was an easy and a de­cisive measure to revive the animosity of the factions: the blues were astonishedat their own guilt and folly, that a trifling injury should provoke them to conspirewith their implacable enemies against a gracious and liberal benefactor; they againproclaimed the majesty of Justinian, and the greens, with their upstart emperor;were left alone in the hippodrome. The fidelity of the guards was doubtful; butthe military force of Justinian consisted in three thousand veterans, who had beentrained to valour and discipline in the Persian and Illyrian wars. Under the com­mand «of Belisarius and Mundus, they silently marched in two divisions from thepalace, forced their obscure way through narrow passages, expiring flames, andfalling edifices, and burst open, at the same moment, the two opposite gates of thehippodrome. In this narrow space, the disorderly and affrighted crowd was incarpable of resisting on either side a firm and regular attack; the blues signalized thefury of their repentance; and it is computed, that above thirty thousand personswere slain in the merciless and promiscuous carnage of the day. Hypatius wasdragged from his throne, and conducted with his brother Pompey to the feet of theemperor: they implored his clemency; but their crime was manifest, their inno­cence uncertain, and Justinian had been too much terrified to forgive. The nextmorning the two nephews of Anastasius, with eighteen illustrious accomplices, ofpatrician or consular rank, were privately executed by the soldiers; their bodieswere thrown into the sea, their palaces rased, and their fortunes confiscated. Thehippodrome itself was condemned during several years to a mournful silence: withthe restoration of the games, the same disorders revived: and the blue and greenfactions continued to afflict the reign of Justinian, and to disturb the tranquillity ofthe eastern empire.(l) (I) Marccllinus says, in general tcrraS, innumeris populii in circo trucidatis. rrocopius numbers thirty