OCR Output TUSCUM MARK. TVBIACAE. 1245 fill remain, the chief of which is one on a kind ofedeital, recording that the object to which it be-Miged was sacred to Jupiter and Liberty. Other^■riptions found at Tu>eulum are preserved in theI ittj KufntUa. One of tliem relates to M. Fulviua(obilior, the conqueror of Aetolia; another to the■ Diphilos, mentioned by Cicero in his letters toMtieus (ii. 19). Sear the hermitage at Camaldoli was discoveredn 1C67 a very ancient tomb of the Furii, as recorded<y Fslconieri, in his Inscrr. Athleticac, p. 143, seq.! wu cut in the rock, and in the middle of it was aurcophagua, about 5 feet long, with a pediment-haped cover. Round it were twelve urns placed inor coffins. The inscriptions on these urnsme in so ancient a character that it bore a greatneuihlar.ee to the Etruscan and Pelasgic. Thearm of the P resembled that in the sepulchral in-eri prions of the Scipios, as well as that of therh* diphthong OV was used for V, and P for F.foe inscriptions on the urns related to the Furii,In! on the sarcophagus to Luc. Turpilius. There'rre nlso fragments of fictile vases, commonly called'tni.'can, and of an elegant cornice of terra cotta,um'.cd with various colours. (Nibby, Vintorni,ii p. 360.) We shall only add that the ager Tuaculanus,!-vj.-h now but scantily supplied with water, for-nerly contributed to furnish Rome with that elementj means of the Aqua Tepula and Aqua Virgo.Front. Aj. 8, i>eq.) itapecting Tnsculum the reader may consult'uiina, Detcririone dell antico TusaUo; Nibby,rWomi di Roma, vol. iii.; Gell, Topography ofr.''v* and tat Vicinity, ed. Bunbury; Abeken, Afit-'l-Italien ; Compagnoni, ilem. itloriche del? anticorWwfo. On Ciccru's villa, Cardoni, De Tutcul. M.T. Cicmnis; Zuzteri, Sopra if una antica Villantpertanl Dorm del Tueculo. [T. H. 1).] TUSCTM MARK. [Tykriiksuh Make.] TUTA'TIO, a place in Noricnm of uncertainit* (It Ant. p. 277 i Tab. Prut., where it is calledUastio.) [L. S.] TTJ'THOA (Toufloo), a river of western Arcadia,!"*iug into the Ladon, on the confines of Tbelpusa-iJ Heraca. It is now called Langddhia, and joins'r Ladon opposite to the small village of Reneti.I'm., viii. 25. § 12; Leake, SI area, vol. ii. p. 95,■"'pomesiaca, p. 223.) TITTIA, a small stream in the neighbourhood of'■j:ne, mentioned only by Livy and Silins Italicus,'bo inform oa that Hannibal encamped on its*-iks, when he was commencing his retreat fromefore the walls of Rome. (Liv. XX vi. 11; SU. ltal."'■ 5.) Liry places it 6 miles from the city, andI is probable that it was on the Salarian Way, byInch Hannibal subsequently commenced his retreat:> this case it may probably be the stream nowabed the Fiume di Conca, which crosses that rood<i»een 6 and 7 miles from Rome, and lias beenopposed by Gell and Nibby to be the Alli.i.Ai-UA.] SUius Italicns expressly tells us that it'»* a very small stream, and little known to fame,lie name is written Turin in many editions of thato*% bat it appears that the best MSS. both of■has and of Livy have the form Tutia. [ K. 11. B.] TUT1A (Tovrrio, Plut Sert. 19), a place in the<rnU*j of the Edetani in Hi.tpania Tarraconensis't tar from Sucm, the scene of a battle between'urapey and Senoriua (Plut. /. c; Florus, iii. 22.)t is thought to be the modern Tout. But the conjecture of TJkert (ii. pt i. p. 413) is correctthat in both these passages we should readTuria. [T. II. D.] TUTICUM. [Ecjuus Tuners.] TUTZ1S (It. Anton, p. 162), a small fortifiedtown in Aethiopia, situated 12 miles N. of Ta-chompso. upon the western side of the Nile. Theruins of Tutzia are snpprced to be near, and NYV. ofthe present village of Gyreeh. (Belzoni, TravtU,vol. i. p. 112.) [VY. B. D ] TY'ANA (tA Tiara: Elk. Tueunvt or TuaWviji),also called Thyana or Thiana, and originally Thoana,from Thoas, a Thracian king, who was believed to havepursued Orestes and Py lades thus far, and to liarefounded the town (Aman, PeripL P. E. p. 6; Steph.B. t. v.). Report said that it was built, like Zela inPunt as, on a causeway of Semiramis; but it is certainthat it wasbitnated in Cappadociaat the foot of MountTaurus, near the Cilician gates, and on a small tri­butary of the Lamus (Strab. xii. p. 537, xiii. p. 587.)It stood on the highroad to Cilicia and Syria at adistance of 300 stadia from Cybistra, and 400stadia (according to the Pent. Table 73 miles) fromMazaca (Strab. l.c.; Ptol. v. 6. § 18; comp. Plin.vi. 3; It. Ant. p. 145). Its situation on that nodand close to so important a pass must have renderedTyana a place of great consequence, both in a com­mercial and a military point of view. The plainaround it, moreover, was extensive and fertile, andthe whole district received from tho town of Tyanathe name of Tyanitis (Tvarins, Strab. i c). Fromits coins we learn that in the reigu of Caracalla thecity became a Roman colony; afterwards, having f,.ra time belonged to the empire of Palmyra, it was con.querrd by Aurelian, in A D. 272 ( Vupiac. Aurtl. 22,foil.), and Vukms raised it to the rank of the capitalof Cappaducia Secunda (Basil. Magn. Epitt. 74, 75;llierocl. p. 700; Malala, Ckron.; Xot. Imp.) Itscapture by the Turks is related by Cedrenus (p.477). Tyana is celebrated in history as the nativeplace of the famous iinpostor Apollonius, of whomwe have a detailed biography by Philostiatus. hithe vicinity of the town there waa a temple of Zeuaon the borders of a lake in a marshy plain. Thewater of the lake itself was cold, hut a hotwell, racred to Zeus, issued from it (Philostr. fit.ApolL i. 4; Amui. Marc xxiii. 6; AristoL Afir.Ante. 163.) This well was called Asmabucon, andfrom it Zeus himself was surnauied Asmalueus.These details about the locality of Tyana have liilin modem times to the discovery of the true site »fthe ancient city. It was formerly believed thatKara Ilitsar marked the site of Tyana; for inthat district many ruins exist, and its inhabitantsstill maintain that their town once was the capitalof Cappaducia. But this place is too far north to beidentified with Trana; and Hamilton (Heieurclitt,ii. p. 302, full.) has shown most satisfactorily, whatothers had conjectured before him, that the truesite of Tyana is at a place now called Kiz liistur,south-west of Xigdeh, and between this place andErekli. The ruins of Tyana are considerable,but tho most consjiicuous is an aqueduct ofgranite, extending seven or eight miles to the footof the mountains. Tliere are also massy founda­tions of several large buildings, shafts, pillars, andone handsome column still standing. Two milessouth of these ruins, the hut spring also still bubblesforth in a cold swamp or lake, (l.eake, Asia Minor,61; Eckhel, iii. p. 195; Sestini, p. 6a) [L. S.1 TYBIACAE (TrfuUoi, PtoL vi. 14. § 11), a