OCR Output 144 THE DECLINE AND FALL flecting on the sure consequences of his own conduct, he wouldperhaps have enjoyed the dark prospect of the distress and calamitieswhich he bequeathed to his successors.Macrinus at- In the management of this necessary reformation, Macrinus pro-foraation of ceeded with a cautious prudence, which would have restored healththe army. vigour to the Roman army, in an easy and almost imperceptible manner. To the soldiers already engaged in the service, he wasconstrained to leave the dangerous privileges and extravagant paygiven by Caracalla *, but the new recruits were received on the libe­ral but more moderate establishment of Severus, and graduallyformed to modesty and obedience *J. One fatal error destroyed thesalutary effects of this judicious plan. The numerous army, as­sembled in the East by the late emperor, instead of being imme­diately dispersed by Macrinus through the several provinces, wassuffered to remain united in Syria, during the winter that followedhis elevation. In the luxurious idleness of their quarters, the troopsviewed their strength and numbers, communicated their complaints,and revolved in their minds the advantages of another revolution.The veterans, instead of being flattered by the advantageous distinc­tion, were alarmed by the first steps of the emperor, which theyconsidered as the presage of his future intentions. The recruits,with sullen reluctance, entered on a service, whose labours were in­creased while its rewards were diministied by a covetous and unwar-like sovereign. The murmurs of the army swelled with impunityinto seditious clamours; and the partial mutinies betrayed a spiritof discontent and disaffection, that waited only for the slightest occa­sion to break out on every side into a general rebellion. To mindsthus disposed, the occasion soon presented itself.Deatii rsthe The empress Julia had experienced all the vicissitudes of fortune.lia^Educa- From an humble station, she had been raised to greatness only toCon- f!nd"l ta^e tne u,Per'or bitterness of an exalted rank. She was doomedvolt of EL- to weep over tne death of one of her sons, and over the life of the other.