OCR Output B. I. 65 INTRODUCTION. necessary, not so much out of regard to the arguments urgedby their allies, as from their own jealousy of the growingpower of the Athenians. They dreaded the advancementof that power, as they saw the greatest part of Greece wasalready in subjection to them. Now the method by which the Athenians had advancedtheir power to this invidious height, was this*: After that the Medes, defeated by the Grecians both at landand sea, had evacuated Europe, and such of them as escapedby sea were utterly ruined at Mycale, Leotychides king ofthe Lacedaemonians who commanded the Grecians at My­cale returned home, drawing away with him all the confed­erates of Peloponnesus. But the Athenians, with the con­federates of Ionia and the Hellespont, who were now revolt­ed from the King, continuing in those parts, laid siege toSestus then held by the Medes ; and, pressing it during thewinter-season, the Barbarians at length abandoned the place.After this they separated, sailing away from the Hellespont,every people to their own respective countries. But the Athenian community, when the Barbarians hadevacuated their territory, immediately brought back againfrom the places of refuge their wives and children and alltheir remaining effects, and vigorously applied themselves torebuild the city of Athens and the walls: For but a smallpart of these was left standing ; and their houses, most ofthem had been demolished, and but few preserved by way oflodgings for the Persian nobles. The Lacedaemonians, in­formed of their design, came in embassy to prevent it; part­ly to gratify themselves, as they would behold with pleasure • The series of history on which Thucydides now enters, though nulstrictly within the compass of his subject, yet most needful to give it liglii.and to shew how present events are connected with, and how far tlicy re­sulted from preceding, is excellent in its kind. He states important factsin the clearest and most orderly manner ; he opens before us the source ofthe Athenian power, and by a neat and concise enumeration of notableevents, conducts it to that height, which excited the jealousy nf o'.l.erstates, and was the true political cause of the Succeeding \vs-.