OCR Output 220 THE ATTEMPT OE MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. praised and beloved during his lifetime, he spent in literary-leisure his remaining days. And this disgraceful condemna­tion, while perhaps the worst, was by no means the onlycase of the sort. The senatorial party was exasperated, notso much perhaps by such an abuse of justice in the case ofmen of stainless walk but of new nobility, as by the fact thatthe purest nobility no longer sufficed to cover possible stainson its honour. Scarcely was Rufus out of the country,when the most respected of all aristocrats, for twenty yearsthe chief of the senate, Marcus Scaurus at seventy years ofage was brought to trial for exactions; a sacrilege accordingto aristocratic notions, even if he were guilty. The officeof accuser began to be exercised professionally by worthlessfellows, and neither irreproachable character, nor rank, norage longer furnished protection from the most wicked andmost dangerous attacks. The commission regarding exac­tions was converted from a shield of the provincials intotheir worst scourge; the most notorious robber escaped withimpunity, if he only indulged his fellow-robbers and did notrefuse to allow part of the sums exacted to reach the jury;but any attempt to respond to the equitable demands ofthe provincials for right and justice sufficed for condemna­tion. It seemed as if the intention was to bring the Romangovernment into the same dependence on the controllingcourt, as that in which the college of judges at Carthagehad formerly kept the council there. The prescient expres­sion of Gaius Gracchus was finding fearful fulfilment, thatwith the dagger of his law as to the juries the nobilitywould lacerate their own flesh.Livius An attack on the equestrian courts was inevitable. Every Drusus. one in the government party who was still alive to the factthat governing implied not merely rights but also duties,every one in fact who still felt any nobler or prouder ambi­tion within him, could not but rise in revolt against thisoppressive and disgraceful political control, which precludedany possibility of upright administration. The scandalouscondemnation of Rutilius Rufus seemed a summons to beginthe attack at once, and Marcus Livius Drusus, who was91. tribune of the people in 663, regarded that summons as spe­cially addressed to himself. Son of the man of the same name,who thirty years before had primarily caused the overthrow ofGaius Gracchus (P. 125), and had afterwards made himself aname as an officer by the subjugation of the Scordisci (P. 178), A