OCR Output C.X.] VESPASIAN, EMPEROR. 147 5. So upon the exhortations of Mucianus and the othercommanders that he would accept of the empire, and uponthat of the rest of the army, who cried out that they werewilling to be led against all his opposers, he was, in the firstplace, intent upon gaining the dominion over Alexandria, asknowing that Egypt was of the greatest consequence in orderto obtain the entire government, because of its supplying ofcorn [to Rome;] which corn if he could be master of, hehoped to dethrone Vitellius, supposing he should aim to keepthe empire by force (for he would not be able to support him­self if the multitude at Rome should once be in want of food;)and because he was desirous to join the two legions that wereat Alexandria to the other legions that were with him. Healso considered with himself, that he should then have thatcountry for a defence to himself against the uncertainty offortune; for Egypt1 is hard to be entered by land, and hathno good havens by sea. It hath on the west the dry desertsof Libya, and on the south Siene, that divides it fromEthiopia, as well as the cataracts of the Nile, that cannot besailed over, and on the east the Red Sea, extending as far asCoptus; and it is fortified on the north by the land thatreaches to Syria, together with that called the Egyptain Sea,having no havens in it for ships. And thus is Egypt walledabout on every side. Its length between Pelusium and Sieneis two thousand furlongs, and the passage by sea from Plin-thine to Pelusium is three thousand six hundred furlongs. Itsriver Nile is navigable as far as the city called Elephantine,the forenamed cataracts hindering ships from going anyfarther. The haven also of Alexandria is not entered by themariners without difficulty, even in times of peace; for thepassage inward is narrow and full of rocks, that lie under thewater, which oblige the mariners to turn from a straightdirection: its left side is blocked up by works made by men'shands on both sides; on its right side lies the island calledPharus, which is situated just before the entrance, andsupports a very great tower that affords the sight of a fire to 1 Here ire have an authentic description of the bounds and circumstancesof Egypt in the days of Vespasian and Titus.