OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. df the sacred and profane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs,while, he impatiently waited the arrival of his Scythianfriends on the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On the29th of June, thirty thousand barbarians, the vanguardof the Avars, forced the long wall, and drove into thecapital a promiscuous crowd of peasants, citizens, andsoldiers. Fourscore thousand0 of his native subjects,and of the vassal tribes of Gepidas. Russians, Bulgarians,and Sclavonians, advanced under the standard of thechagan: a month was spent in marches and negotia­tions, but the whole city was invested on the 31st ofJuly, from the suburbs of Pera and Galata to the Bla-chernae and seven towers; and the inhabitants descriedwith terror the flaming signals of the European andAsiatic shores. In the meanwhile the magistrates of Con­stantinople repeatedly strove to purchase the retreat ofthe chagan: but their deputies were rejected and insult­ed; and he suffered the patricians to stand before histhrone, while the Persian envoys, in silk robes, were seat­ed by his side.—" You see (said the haughty barbarian)the proofs of my perfect union with the great king: andhis lieutenant is ready to send into my camp a select bandof three thousand warriors. Presume no longer to temptyour master with a partial and inadequate ransom: yourwealth and your city are the only presents worthy of myacceptance. For yourselves, I shall permit you to depart,each with ap under-garment and a shirt; and, at myen-treatyj my friend Sarbar will not refuse a passage throughhis lines. Your absent prince, even now a captive or afugitive, has left Constantinople to its fate; nor can youescape the arms of the Avars and Persians, unless youcould soar into the air like birds, unless like fishes youcould dive into the waves."d During ten successive days, * This number of' eight myriads is specified by George of Pisidia. (Bell. A bar.219.) The poet (50—88) clearly indicates that the old chagan lived till the reign ofHeraclius, and that his son and successor was born" of a foreign mother. Yet Foggini(Annotat. p. 67i) has given another interpretation to this passage. * A bird, a frog, a mouse, and five arrows, had been the present of the Scythianking to Darius. (Herodot. lib. 4. c. 131, 132.) Substituez une lettre a ces signes(says Rousseau, with much good taste) plus ella sera nienecante inoins elle efl'rayera:c« tie fera queune fanfarrerwde, dont Darius n'eut fait quorire, (lituile, torn. 3. p. 146.)