OCR Output AN. 34.] 543 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. given her Coelesyria, instead of what she de­sired: by which means he had at once pa­cified her, and got clear of the entreatieswhich she had made him, to have Judeabestowed upon her. When these letters were brought, the wo­men laid aside their intention of fleeing tothe Romans which they had thought of whileHerod was supposed to be dead. Yet wasnot that purpose of theirs a secret. Butwhen the king had conducted Antony on hisway against the Parthians, and returningto Judea; both his sister Salome, and hismother, informed him of Alexandra's inten­tions. Salome also added somewhat fartheragainst Joseph, though it were no more thana calumny: that he had often had a criminalconversation with Mariamne. The reasonof her saying so was, that she had for a longtime borne her ill will: for when they haddifferences with one another, Mariamne tookgreat freedoms, and reproached the restwith the meanness of their birth. Herodwhose affection to Mariamne was alwaysvery warm, was presently disturbed at this;and could not bear the torments of jealousy;but was still restrained from doing any rashthing, by the love he had for her. Yet didhis vehement affection and jealousy togethermake him ask Mariamne by herself, aboutthis matter of Joseph. But she denied itupon her oath, and said all that an innocentwoman could possibly say in her own de­fence: so that by little and little the kingwas prevailed upon to drop the suspicion;and left off his anger at her: and being over­come with his passion for his wife, he madean apology to her for having seemed to be­lieve what he had heard about her; and re­turned her a great many acknowledgmentsof her modest behaviour: and professed theextraordinary affection and kindness he hadfor her. Till at last, as is usual betweenlovers, they both burst into tears, and em­braced each other with a most tender affec­tion. But as the king gave more and moreassurances of his belief of her fidelity, andendeavoured to draw her to a like confi­dence in him, Mariamne said, "Yet was notthat command thou gavest, that if any harm * This slaughter of Arsinoe by Mark Antony, when shehad fled for refuge to this asylum, the temple of Diana,is confirmed by Appian V. page 676. Only he says, that came to thee from Antony, I, who had beenno occasion of it, should perish with thee, asign of thy love to me." When these words were fallen from her,the king was shocked at them; and presentlylet her go out of his arms, and cried out, andtore his hair with his own hands, and said,that he had now an evident demonstrationthat Joseph had had criminal conversationwith his wife: for that he would never haveuttered what he had told him by himself,unless there had been a great familiarity,and such firm confidence, between them.And while he was in this passion, he hadlike to have killed his wife: but being stillovercome by his love to her, he restrainedhis passion: though not without a lastinggrief, and disquietness of mind. However,he gave order to slay Joseph, without per­mitting him to come into his sight. And asfor Alexandra, he bound her, and kept herin custody, as the cause of all this mischief. CHAP. IV. of cleopatra's avarice and cruelties; her arrivalin judea, and the attentions she received from HEROD. AT this time the affairs of Syria were inconfusion by Cleopatra's constant per­suasions to Antony to make an attempt onevery body's dominions. For she persuadedhim to take those dominions from their se­veral princes, and bestow them upon her.And she had a great influence upon him; byreason of his being enslaved to her by hisaffections. She was also by nature verycovetous, and hesitated not to commit anywickedness. She had already poisoned herbrother; because she knew that he was tobe king of Egypt: and this when he was butfifteen years old. And she caused her sisterArsinoe to be *slain by the means of An­tony; when she was a supplicant at Diana'stemple at Ephesus. For if there were butany hopes of getting money, she would vio­late both temples and sepulchres. Nor wasthere any holy place that was esteemed themost inviolable, from which she would notfetch the ornaments it had in it: nor any it was at her temple at Miletus; and Josephus here at hertemple at Ephesus. Which was the truth cannot. I sup­pose, be now determined.