OCR Output 176 t'HE HIST OR? B o o K he propofcd to add a confiderable tract of land,^-y__, which he alleged was the property of the public,Y.R. 168. though poffcfied by private perfons; many of the*.C. 484. patricians, who were themfelves in pofieflion of theland, were hereby alarmed for the fafety of theirproperty, and befides, that body in general wasfeized with anxiety for the fafety of the public; ob-ferving that the conful, by thefe donatives, wasforming an influence dangerous to liberty. Thiswas the firft propofal of the agrarian law, which,from that time to the prefent age, has never beenagitated, without the moft violent commotions inthe flate. The other conful oppofed the donations;and in this, he was liipported by the patricians, nordid all the commons join the oppofite party: atfirft, they began to defpife a gift, which was notconfined to themfelves, but extended to the allies,in common with the citizens: then they were ac-cuftomed to hear the conful Virginius in the aflem-blies frequently, as it were* prophefying, that " the"donatives of his colleagues were full of infectious"poifon; that thofe lands would bring flavery on"luch as mould receive them; that he was paving"the way to arbitrary power; for why mould the"allies and the Latine nation be thus included?"What was the intent of reftoring a third part of"the lands, taken in war, to the Hernicians, who"fb lately were enemies, only that thefe nations"might let Caffius at their head as a leader, inftead"of Coriolanus." Whoever argued and proteftedagainft the agrarian law,' was now fure of popularity;and1 from that time, both the confuls vied with eachother in humouring the commons. Virginius de­clared, that he would allow the lands to be affigned,provided they were not afligned to any other thanCitizens of Rome. Caflius, finding that, by his pur-fuit of popularity among the allies, which he hadbetrayed in the propofed diftribution of the lands, •he had lowered himfelf in the eftimation of his coun- • try men,