OCR Output 190 TBE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Eook IV. Cimbri, but these were also joined by the kindred Teutonesunder their king Teutobod, who had been driven by eventswhich tradition has not recorded from their home on theBaltic sea to appear now on the Seine.* But even theunited hordes were unable to overcome the brave resistanceExpedition of the Belgae. The leaders accordingly resolved, now thatto Italy re- their numbers were thus swelled, to enter in all earnest onsolved on. ^e eXpedition to Italy which they had several times contem­plated. In order not to encumber themselves with the spoilwhich they had heretofore collected, they left it behindunder the protection of a division of 6000 men, which aftermany wanderings afterwards gave rise to the tribe of theAduatuci on the Sambre. But, whether from the diffi­culty of finding supplies on the Alpine routes or fromother reasons, the mass again broke up into two hosts, oneof which, composed of the Cimbri and Tigorini, was to re-cross the Rhine and to invade Italy through the passes of113. the eastern Alps already reconnoitred in 641, and the other,composed of tne newly arrived Teutones, the Tougeni, andthe Ambrones—the flower of the Cimbrian host alreadytried in the battle of Arausio—was to invade Italy throughTeutones Roman Gaul and the western passes. It was this secondin the [102. division, which in the summer of 652 once more crossed theprovince of jjhone without hindrance, and on its left bank resumed,after a pause of nearly three years, the struggle with theRomans. Marius awaited them in a well chosen and wellprovisioned camp at the confluence of the Isere with theRhone, in which position he intercepted the passage of thebarbarians by either of the only two military routes toItaly then practicable, that over the Little St. Bernard,and that along the coast. The Teutones attacked the camp,which obstructed their passage; for three consecutive daysthe barbarians assailed the Roman entrenchments, buttheir wild courage was thwarted by the superiority of theRomans in fortress-warfare and by the prudence of thegeneral. After severe loss the bold associates resolved to * The view here presented rests in the main on the comparatively trust­worthy account in the Epitome of Livy (where we should read reversi in Gut-Ham in Vellocassis se Teutonis conjunxerunt) and in Obsequens; to thedisregard of authorities of lesser weight, which make the Teutones appearby the side of the Cimbri at an earlier date, some of them, such as Appian,Celt. 13, even as early as the battle of Noreia. Therewith we connect thenotices in Caesar (B. G. i. 33; ii. 4, 29); as the invasion of the Roman pio-102. vince and of Italy by the Cimbri can only mean the expedition of 652.