OCR Output 372 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. 3. So Herod took away the old foundations, and laid others,and erected the temple upon them, being in length a hundredcubits, and in height twenty additional cubits, which [twenty,]upon the * sinking of their foundations, fell down: and this partit was that we resolved to raise again in the days of Nero. Nowthe temple was built of stones that were white and strong, andeach of their length was twenty-five cubits, their height waseight, and their breadth about twelve; and the whole structure,as was also the structure of the royal cloister, was on each sidemuch lower, but the middle was much higher, till they werevisible to those that dwelt in the country for a great many fur­longs, but chiefly to such as lived over against them, and thosethat approached to them. The temple had doors also at the en­trance, and lintels over them, of the same height with the tem­ple itself. They were adorned with embroidered vails, withtheir flowers of pm-pie, and pillars interwoven: and over these,but under the crown-work, was spread out a golden vine, withits branches hanging down from a great height, the largeness andfine workmanship of which was a surprising sight to the specta­tors, to see what vast materials there were, and with what greatskill the workmanship was done. He also encompassed the en­tire temple with very large cloisters, contriving them to be in adue proportion thereto; and he laid out larger sums of moneyupon them than had been done before him, till it seemed that noone else had so greatly adorned the temple as he had done. Therewas a large wall to both the cloisters, which wall was itself themost prodigious work that was ever heard of by man. The hillwas a rocky ascent, that declined by degrees towards the eastparts of the city, till it came to an elevated level. This hill itwas which Solomon, who was the first of our kings, by divinerevelation, encompassed with a wall; it was of excellent work­manship upwards, and round the top of it. He also built a wallbelow, beginning at the bottom, which was encompassed by a * Some of our modern students in architecture have made a strange blunderhere, when they imagine that Joseph us affirms the entire foundation of the tempi*or holy house sunk down into the rocky mountain on which it stood, no less than20 cubits; whereas he is clear, that they were the foundations of the (ulduiimal 20cubits only above the hundred, (made perhaps weak on purpose, and only for showand grandeur.) that sunk or fell do\vn, as Dr. Hudson rightly understands him: noris the thing itself possible in the other sense. Agrippa's preparation for building theinner pans of the temple 20 cubits higher, (H istory of the War, B. V. ch. i. stct. 5.)must in all probability refer to this matter, since Josephus says here, that this whichhad fallen down was designed to 1 craised up again under NeTO, under whom Agrippamade that preparation. But what Josejihus says presently, that Solomon was thefirst king of the Jews, appears by the paraltel place, .Amu;. B. XX. ch. ix. sect. 7.vol. III. and other places, to be meant only the first of David's posterity, ami the firstbuilder of the temple.