OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 237 the reign of the Othos; and their ambassador de­scribes, in lively colours, the insolence of the Byzan­tine court.' The Greeks affected to despise the povertyand ignorance of the Franks and Saxons; and in theirlast decline refused to prostitute to the kings of Ger­many the title of Roman emperors. These emperors, in the election of the popes,- continued to exercise the powers which hadbeen assumed by the Gothic and Grecianprinces; and the importance of this preroga-A.IX BOO tive increased with the temporal estate andspiritual jurisdiction of the Roman church.In the Christian aristocracy, the principal members ofthe clergy still formed a senate to assist the adminis­tration, and to supply the vacancy, of the bishop.Rome was divided into twenty-eight parishes, and eachparish was governed by a cardinal priest or presbytera tide which, however common and modest in its ori­gin, has aspired to emulate the purple of kings. Theirnumber was enlarged by the association of the sevendeacons of the most considerable hospitals, the sevenpalatine judges of the Lateran, and some dignitaries ofthe church. The ecclesiastical senate was directed bythe seven cardinal-bishops of the Roman province,who were less occupied in the superb diocesses of Ostia,Porto, Velitrae, Tusculum, Praeneste, Tibur, and theSabines, than by their weekly service in the Lateran,and their superior share in the honours and authorityof the apostolic see. On the death of the pope, thesebishops recommended a successor to the suffrage of thecollege of cardinals,1 and their choice was ratified or k Ipse nuim vos, non imperatoremid est RwiXm snfi lingua, sed ob indignationemPnya, id eatregem nnstrii vocabat. Liutprand. in Legal, in Script. Ital. torn. 2. para 1.p. 479.) The pope had exhorted Nicephorus, emperor of the Gretkt, to make peacewith Otho, the august emperor of the Romans—qu«e inscriptio secundum Gracespeccalriaet temeraria*.... imperatorem inquiunt, wriversatem, Romanorum, Augta-rtun, magnum, ulum, Nicephorurn. (p. 486.) The origin and progress of the title of cardinal may be found in Thomassin;(Discipline d'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 1261—1298.) Muratori, (Antiquitat. Italiae MediiiEvi, torn. 6. diaeert. 61. p. t59—182.) and Mosheim, (Institut , Hist. Eccles.p. 3-15—347.) who accurately remarks the forms and changes of the election.