OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. which, by mutual respiration^ is transfused from the in­fected persons to the lungs and stomach of those whoapproach them. While philosophers believe and trem­ble, it is singular, that the existence of a real dangershould have been denied by a people most prone to vain'and imaginary terrors.8 Yet the fellow-citizens of Pro-copius were satisfied, by some short and partial expe­rience, that the infection could not be gained by the:closest conversation ;b and this persuasion might supportthe assiduity of friends or physicians in the care of thesick, whom inhuman prudence would have condemnedto solitude and despair. But the fatal security, like thepredestination of the Turks, must have aided the progressof the contagion; and those salutary precautions, to'which Europe is indebted for her safety* were unknownto the government of Justinian. No restraints were im-'posed on the free and frequent intercourse of the Ro-iman provinces; from Persia to France, the nations weremingled and infected by wars and emigrations: and thepestilential odour, which lurks for years in a bale of cot­ton, was imported, by the abuse of trade, into the mostdistant regions. The mode of its propagation is ex­plained by the remark of Procopius himself, that it al­ways spread from the sea-coast to the inland country; the'most sequestered islands and mountains were succes­sively visited; the places which had escaped the fury ofits passage, were alone exposed to the contagion of theensuing year. The winds might diffuse that subtle ve­nom; but, unless the atmosphere be previously disposedfor its reception, the plague would soon expire in the coldor temperate climates of the earth. Such was the uni- a Mead proves that the plagus is contagions, from Thucydides, Lucretius, Aristo­tle, Galen, and common experience ; (p. 10-—20.) and he refutes (Preface, p. 2—13.)the contrary opinion of the French pbysicians who visited Marseilles In the year1720, Yet these were the recent and enlightened spectators of a plague which, in afew months, swept away fifty thousand inhahitants (sur la Peste de Marseille, Paris,1786) of a city that, in the present hour of prosperity and trade, contains no morethan ninety thousand souls. (Necker, sur les Finances, tom. 1. p. 231.) b The strong assertions of Prooopins—oure yag ietrgai gut« yaf titnry—are over­thrown by the subsequent experience of Evagrius. VOL. V. Y