OCR Output SIDE. . SIDICINI. 995 JS2; Coxa. Const, ii. p. 240.) The cliicf di-117 of this city was Athena, who is therefore seenfronted on its coins, holding a pomegranateJ() in her liand. (Sestini, Num. Vet. p. 392,Lj comp. Xenopb. Anab. i. 2. § 12; Cicero, adm.m.t; Allien, viii. p. 350; Paus. viii. 28. § 2;si t. 5. § 2, viii. 17. § 31.) The exact site ofcnt >i<ie, which is now called Esky Adatia, as1»its remains, have been described by modern'dim. Beaufort (Karamania, p. 146, foil), whonio excellent plan of the present condition ofpuce, states that the city stood on a low penin-i, sad wsj surrounded by walls; the part facinghed was of excellent workmanship, and muchis U still perfect. There were four gates, ones the country and three from the sea. TheA, 180 feet in diameter, was surrounded by aUt nm of columns. One side of the square issnxat occupied by the ruins of a temple and:*u The theatre appears like a lofty acropolisX fnm the centre of the town, and is by far the • : sod best preserved of any seen in Asiasr. The harbour consisted of two small moles,•tie! with the quay and principal sea gate. Atfitmnity of the peninsula were two artificial■an for larger vessels. Both are now almostI whs sand and stones, which have been borne} lbs swell The earliest coins of Side are ex-•> ancient; the inscriptions are in very barba-ekincters, resembling the Phoenician, and theTil coins exhibit the proud titles of AosuwporciTnWjfar. (Eckhel, vol. iii. pp. 44, 161; Span-■ Cm et Praest. Num. p. 879; Fellows, Asia», p. SOI; Leake, Asia Minor, p. 195, foil.)sfntiog Side, the ancient name of Polemonium,'nUMuSHTH. [L. S.]I'E (Zlcsj), a town on the eastern coast of■a, a little N. of the promontory Malea. Itsaid to have existed before the Dorian con-L. sad to have derived its name from a daughter■a The inhabitants were removed by theb ocqaerors to the neighbouring town of- It probably occupied the site of the monas-i SL George, where there is a port (Scylax,; Pus. iu. 22. § 11; Boblaye, Recherche*, Curtina, Pelopounesos, vol. ii. p. 297.)H'XE (ioVn). 1. A town of Mysis, onnrr Granicut, which was destroyed by Croesus,■as never rebuilt, in consequence of a curseswd m the site by the destroyer. (Slrab. xiii.i7.601.) A town in Lycia. mentioned only by Ste- • B. (a. r.) on the authority of the Lydiaca of A district on the coast of Pontus, about the>«f Ike river Sidenus, which derived its name*• towa of Side, afterwards called Polemonium.xaltr put of the district was formed by the»«f the river (Stnsb. L p. 52, ii. p. 126, xit3. 548, 556; Plin. wi. 4.) [L. S.] 't SI (ZiSwroi), • people of Arabia Felix,t' I'toleroy between the Thamyditae on thesod the Darrae on the south, on the Elanitic»■ *. | 4). Mr. Forster identifies them with">wjw« tribe of Burckhardt, in the north of the:. extending along the coast from Jebelsj (otriainly identical with the Hippos Mons • oeuiag Horse-mountain — of Ptolemy), toi * AU the circumstances, of name, locality,•il-tnarhood," he asys, " concur to prove theirf.' (ArMa, voLL p. 126.) |G. W.] SIDE'NI (StSfis-oi, Xttiivol, ZtSnrof), a Germantribe on the coast of the Baltic, between the mouthof the river Suebus and that of the Viadus. (l'lol ii.11. § 14.) It is possible that Sibini (XSirot) isonly a corrupt form of the name of this same tribe,(Zcuss, Die Deutschen, p. 154.) [L. S.] SIDE'NUS, a small river of Pontus, having itssources in Mount Paryadres, and flowing throughthe district of Sidene into the Euxine; at its mouthwas the town of Side or Polemonium (Plin. vi. 4),from which the river is now called Poulenian Choi.(Comp. Hamilton, Researches, i. p. 270.) [L. S.] SIDEUIS, a river of Hyrcauia, mentioned byPliny (vi. 16. s. 18), which flowed into the Caspiansea. it cannot be now determined to which riverhe refers, but be states from it the Caspian sea wascalled the Hyrcanian. SIDE'BL'S (SiSnooCi). according to Scylax (p. 39)a promontory and a port-town on the coast of I.ycia.The same place seems to be meant in Steplianus B.(j. v. Zioopouf), when he calls Sidarus a town andhaibour. Col. Leake {Asia Minor, p. 189) hasshown that the town of Siderus is in all proba­bility no other than Olympus, on the south of Pha-selis. [L.S.] SIDICI'NI (SiSuai-ot), a people of Central Italybordering on the Samnites and Campanians. In thetime of the geographers they had disappeared as apeople, or become absorbed into the general appel­lation of Campanians (Strab. v. p. 237), but at anearlier period they appear as a wholly independentpeople. Their chief city was Teanmn, on the K.slope of the volcanic mountain group of RvccaMunjina: but they had at one time extended theirpower considerably further to the N. and up thevalley of the Liris, as the territory of Fregeliae issaid to have been subject to them, before tliey weredispossessed of it by the VoLscians (Liv. viii. 22).It is clear however that this extension of their limitswas of short duration, or at all events had ceasedbefore they first appear in history. Strabo tells usexpressly that they were an Oscan tribe (/. c), andthis is confirmed by the coins of Teanum still extant,which have Oscan inscriptions. They were there­fore closely allied to the neighbouring tribes of thoCampanians on the S. and the Aurunci and Aiisuneson the W. Hence Virgil associates the inhabitantsof the Sidiciuian plains ('' Sidieina aequora,'' Aen. vii.727) with the Aunincans and the inhabitants ofCales. The last city is assigned by Silius Italicusto the Sidicini, but this is opposed to ail otherauthorities (Sil. Ital. viii. 511). The name ofthe Sidicini is first mentioned in history in K. c 343,when they were attacked by the Samnites, who hadbeen long pressing upon their neighbours the Vol-scians. Unable to contend with these formidableassailants, the Sidicini had recourse to the Cam­panians, who sent an army to their assistance, butwere easily defeated (Liv. vii. 29, 30), and beingin their turn threatened by the whole power of theSamnites, invoked the assistance of Home. Duringthe war which followed (the First Samnite War), welose sight altogether of the Sidicini, but by the treatywhich put an end to it (in B. c. 341) it was par­ticularly stipulated that the Samnites should be atliberty to pursue their ambitious designs against thutpeople (Id. viii. I, 2). Thus abandoned by theK i .his to their fate the Sidicini had recourse to theLatins (who were now openly shaking off theirconnection with Rome) and the Campanians; andthe Samnites were a second time drawn oft* from 3 s 2