OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25s compared, both in life and death, with the brightest examples ofancient virtue49. This fatal blow humbled, for a very little time, the insolence of Election ofthe legions. They appear to have patiently expected, and fubmis- A. D. xji..fively obeyed, the decree of the senate, which regulated the succes- Deccmber*sion to the throne. From a just regard for the memory of Decius,the imperial title was conferred on Hostilianus, his only survivingson; but an equal rank, with more effectual power, was granted toGallus, whose experience and ability seemed equal to the great trustof guardian to the young prince and the distressed empire S°. Thefirst care of the new emperor was to deliver the Illyrian provinces A.D. 2jz.from the intolerable weight of the victorious Goths. He consentedto leave in their hands the rich fruits of their invasion, an immensebooty, and what was still more disgraceful, a great number of pri­soners of the highest merit and quality. He plentifully supplied Retreat of the , Goths. their camp with every convemency that could assuage their angryspirits, or facilitate their so much wislied-for departure; and he evenpromised to pay them annually a large sum of gold, on conditionthey should never afterwards infest the Roman territories by theirincursions5'. In the age of the Scipios, the most opulent kings of the earth* Gallus Pur-who courted the protection of the victorious commonwealth, were by'thc p"-"gratified with such trifling presents as could only derive a value from nuT/trlbute.""the hand that bestowed them; an ivory chair, a coarse garment ofpurple, an inconsiderable piece of plate, or a quantity of coppercoin 5\ After the wealth of nations had centered in Rome, theemperors displayed their greatness, and even their policy, by theregular exercise of a steady and moderate liberality towards the alliesof the state. They relieved the poverty of the barbarians, honouredtheir merit, and recompensed their fidelity. 1 hese voluntary marksof bounty were understood to flow not from the fears, but merelyfrom the generosity or the gratitude of the Romans; and whilst presents