OCR Output LIVY. leaders of the Barcine faction, charging them to pre­pare their friends to act with spirit, so that the otherparty should not be able to carry any point in favor ofthe Romans. Thus the embassy there proved equallyvain and fruitless, excepting that the ambassadors werereceived and admitted to audience. Hanno alone, inopposition to the sentiments of the senate, argued fortheir complying with the terms of the treaty, and washeard with great attention, rather out of the respectpaid to the dignity of his character, than from the ap­probation of the hearers. He said that ' he had for­merly charged and forewarned them, as they regardedthe gods, who were guarantees and witnesses of thetreaties, not to send the son of Hamilcar to the army.That man's shade,' said he, ' cannot be quiet, nor anyone descended from him; nor will treaties with Romesubsist as long as one person of the Barcine blood andname exists. As if with intent to supply fuel to fire,you sent to your armies a young man, burning with am­bition for absolute power, to which he could see butone road, the exciting of wars, one after another, inorder that he might live surrounded with arms and le­gions. You yourselves therefore have kindled this firewith which you are now scorched : your armies now in­vest Saguntum, a place which they are bound by treatynot to molest. In a short time the Roman legions willinvest Carthage, under the guidance of those same dei­ties who enabled them in the former war to take ven­geance for the breach of treaties. Are you strangersto that enemy, or to yourselves, or to the fortune at­tending both nations ? When ambassadors came fromallies, in favor of allies, your worthy general, disre­garding the law of nations, refused them admittanceinto his camp. Nevertheless, after meeting a repulse,where ambassadors, even from enemies, are not refusedaccess, they have come to you, requiring satisfaction inconformity to treaty. They charge no crime on thepublic, but demand the author of the transgression, theperson answerable for the offence. The more modera­tion there appears in their proceedings, and the slower