OCR Output 458 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. of the entertainment, and offensive personalities, even withthe mention of names, not unfrequently crept in. But therewas no want also of vivid delineation, of grotesque inci­dents, of telling jokes, and of pithy sayings; and the harle­quinade rapidly won for itself no inconsiderable position inthe theatrical life of the capital and even in literature.Dramatic Lastly as regards the development of dramatic arrange-arrange- ments, we are not in a position to set forth in detail—what isments. clear on the whole—that the general interest in dramaticperformances was constantly on the increase, and that theybecame more and more frequent and magnificent. Notonly was there hardly any ordinary or extraordinary popularfestival that was now celebrated without dramatic exhibi­tions; even in the country-towns and in private housesrepresentations by companies of hired actors were common.It is true that, while probably various municipal towns alreadyat this time possessed theatres built of stone, the capital wasstill without one; the building of a theatre, already con-155. tracted for, had been again prohibited by the senate in 599on the suggestion of Publius Scipio Nasica. It was quite inthe spirit of the sanctimonious policy of this age, that thebuilding of a permanent theatre was prohibited out ofrespect for the customs of their ancestors, but neverthelesstheatrical entertainments were allowed rapidly to increase,and enormous sums were expended annually in erecting anddecorating structures of boards for the purpose. Thearrangements of the stage became visibly better. Theimproved mise en seem and the reintroduction of masks aboutthe time of Terence are doubtless connected with the fact,that the erection and maintenance of the stage and stage-174. apparatus were charged in 580 on the public chest.* Theplays which Lucius Mummius produced after the capture145. of Corinth (609) formed an epoch in the history of thetheatre. It was probably then that a theatre acousticallyconstructed after the Greek fashion and provided with seatswas first erected, and more care generally was expended on * Hitherto the person providing the play had been obliged to fit up thestage and scenic apparatus out of the round sum assigned to him or at his ownexpense, and much money would not often probably be expended on these. But174. in 580 the censors made the erection of the stage for the games of the pnetorsand ajdiles a matter of special contract (Liv. xli. 27): the circumstance that thestage-apparatus was now no longer erected merely for a single performance,must have led to a perceptible improvement in it.