OCR Output aN. 521.] 393 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. which they could possess themselves of with­out tribute. At the same time he enjoinedthe Idumeans and Samaritans, and the inha­bitants of Coelesyria, to restore those villageswhich they had taken from the Jews; andthat, besides all this, fifty talents should begiven them towards the building of the tem­ple. He also permitted them to offer theirappointed sacrifices, and promised whatso­ever the high-priest and the priests wanted,and those sacred garments wherein they usedto worship God, should be made at his ownexpense: and that the musical instrumentswhich the Levites used in singing hymns toGod should be given them. Moreover hecharged them, that portions of land shouldbe given to those that guarded the city andthe temple, as also a determinate sum ofmoney every year, for their maintenance:and withal he sent the vessels. And all thatCyrus intended to do before him, relating tothe restoration of Jerusalem, Darius ordainedshould be done accordingly. When Zorobabel had obtained thesegrants from the king, he went out of thepalace; and, looking up to heaven, he beganto return thanks to God for the wisdom hehad given him, and the victory he had gainedthereby; even in the presence of Darius him­self. "For," said he, "I had not been thoughtworthy of these advantages, O Lord, unlessthou hadst been favourable to me." Whentherefore he had returned thanks to God forthe present circumstances he was in, and hadprayed to him, to afford him the like favourfor time to come, he came to Babylon; andbrought the good news to his countrymen ofwhat grants he had procured for them fromthe king. When they heard this, they alsogave thanks to God that he had restoredthe land of their forefathers to them again.So they betook themselves to drinking andeating; and for seven days they kept a fes­tival, for the rebuilding and restoration of their city. After this they chose themselvesrulers, who should go up to Jerusalem, outof the tribes of their forefathers, with theirwives, and children, and cattle, who travel­led to Jerusalem with great pleasure, underthe conduct of those whom Darius sent alongwith them: and they made a cheerful noisewith songs, and pipes, and cymbals, the restof the Jewish multitude accompanying themwith rejoicing. And thus did these men go a certain anddeterminate number out ot every family:though i do not think it proper to recite particularly the names of those families;* thatI may not take off the mind of my readersfrom the connection of the historical facts,and make it hard for them to follow the co­herence of my narrations. But the sum ofthose that went up, above the age of twelveyears, of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin,was four fhundred and sixty-two myriads, andeight thousand. The Levites were seventyfour; the number of women and childrenmixed together, was forty thousand sevenhundred and forty-two. And besides these,there were singers of the Levites one hun­dred and twenty-eight; porters one hundredand ten; and of the sacred ministers threehundred and ninety-two. There were alsoothers, who said they were of the Israelites,but were not able to shew their genealogies,six hundred and sixty-two. Some there werealso who were expelled out of the numberand honour of the priests, as having marriedwives whose genealogies they could not pro­duce; nor were they found in the genealogiesof the Levites and priests; they were aboutfive hundred and twenty-five. The multitudealso of servants, followed those that went upto Jerusalem, seven thousand three hundredand thirty-seven. The singing men andsinging women were two hundred and forty-five. The camels were four hundred andthirty-five; the beasts used to the yoke were j * See Ezra ii. 1—70. Nehemiah viii. 6—70. t This number of 4,620,000 in Josephus's presentcopies, is one of the grossest errors that is in them; andought to be corrected from Ezra ii. 64. 1 Esdras v. 40. andNeh. vii. 66. who all agree the general sum was but about42,360. It is also very plain, that Josephus thought,when Esdras .afterward brought up another company outof Babylon and Persia, in the days of Xerxes, they werealso, as well as these, out of the two tribes, and out ofthem only; and were in all no more than a seed, and a remnant; while an immense number of the ten tribesnever returned; but as he believed, continued them be­yond Euphrates: chap. v. Of which multitude of Jewsbeyond Euphrates he speaks frequently elsewhere.-Though, by the way, he never takes them to be idolaters;but looks on them still as observers of the laws of Moses.The certain part of the people that now came up fromBabylon, at the end of this chapter, imply the samesmaller number of Jews that now came up, and will noway agree with the 4,620,000.