OCR Output 134 L ATI I'M. LATIUM. nucssa wns already regarded as included in Latium;and the former author nowhere alludes to tho Lirisas the boundary. III. Physical Gkoorapiit. The land of the Latins, or Latium in its originalsense, fonned the southern part of the great basinthrough which the Tiber flows totlie sea, and which ishounded by theCiminian Hills,and other ranees of vol­canic hills connected with them, towards the N.,by thoApennines on the E., and by the Alban Hills on theS. Tho latter, however, do not form a continuousbarrier, being in fact an isolated group of volcanicorigin, separated by a considerable gap from theApennines on the one side, while on the other tbeyleave a broad strip of low plain between their lowestslopes and the sea, which is continued on in thebroad expanse of level and marshy ground, com­monly known as the Pontine Marshes, extending ina broad band between the Volscian mountains andtho tea, until it is suddenly and abruptly terminatedby the isolated mass of the Circeian promontory. The great basin-like tract thus bounded is dividedinto two portions by the Tiber, of which the one onthe N. of that river belongs to Southern Etruria,ami is not comprised in our present subject.[Etkiria.] The southern part, now known as theCoMpagna di lioma, may be regarded as a broad ex­panse of undulatory plain, extending from tho sea-c«*st to the foot of the Apennines, which rise from itabruptly like a gigantic wall to a height of from3000 to 4000 feet, their highest summits even ex­ceeding the latter elevation. The Monte Gennaro,(4285 English feet in height) is one of the loftiestsummits of this range, and, from the boldness withwhich it ri>es from the subjacent plain, and itsadvanced position, appears, when viewed from theCampngna, the most elevated of all; but, accordingto Sir W. (Jell, it is exceeded in actual height bothby the Monte Pennecchio, a little to the NE. of it,and by the Monte di Guadagnolo. the central peakof the group of mountains which rise immediatelyabove Pracncate or Palrstrina, The citadel of Prae­neste itself occupies a very elevated position, f fininga kind of outwork or advanced post of the chain ofApennines, which here trends away suddenly to theeastward, sweeping round by Genazzana, Olecntio,and Hnjate, till it resumes its general SE. direction,and is continued on by the lofty ranges of the Iler-nican mountains, which bound the valley of theSacco on the E. and continue unbroken to the valleyof the Liris. Opposite to Praeneste, and separated from it by abreadth of nearly 5 miles of intervening plain, ri*cs theisolated group of the Alban mountains, the form ofwhich at once proves its volcanic origin. [Albaki'SMdkm.] It is a neaily circular mass, of about 40miles in circumference; and may be conceived asforming a great crater, the outer ridge of which hasbeen broken up into numerous more or l«*ss detachedsummits, several of which were crowned in ancienttimet by towns or fortresses, such as Tusculum,Corbio, Ac; while at a lower level it throws outdetached oftMionts, or outlying ridges, affording ad­vantageous sites for towns, and which were accord­ingly occupied by those of Wlitrae, Lanuvium, AlbaLonga, Ate. The group of the Alban mountains iswholly detached on all sides: on the S. a strip ofplain, of much the same breadth as that which sepa­rated it from tlte Apennines of Praeneste, divides it'ruin the subordinate, but very lofty mass of aioun- tains, commonly known as the Monti Lepini, or Volscian mountains. This group, which forms anoutlying mass of the Apennines, srpcirated from themain chain of those mountains by the broad valleyof the Trerus or Sacco} rises in a bold and imposingmass from the level of the Pontine Marshea, whit ait borders throughout their whole extent, until ttreaches the sea at Tarracina, and from that placeto tlic mouth of the Liris sends down a succosj <iof mountain headlands to the sea, constituting agreat natural barrier between the plains of Latiumand those of Campania. The highest summits ifthis group, which consists, like the more centralApennines, wholly of limestone, attain an elevationof nearly 5000 feet above the sea: the whole tnaaetills up almost the entire space between the valleyof the Trerus and the Pontine Marshes, a bread toof from 12 to 16 miles; with a length of near 40miles from Monte Fortino at its N. extremity tothe sea at Ttrracina; but the whole distance, fromMonte Fortino to tho end of the mountain chainnear the mouth of the Liris, exceeds 60 mi lea. Thegreater part of this rugged mountain tract belongedfrom a very early period to the Volscian*, but theLatins, as already mentioned, possessed severaltowns, as Siguia, Cora, Norba, &c.t which were builton projecting point* or underfills of the uiaiuchain. But though the plains of Latium are thus stronglycharacterised, when compared with the group* ofmountains ;ust described, it must not be supposedthat they constitute an unbroken plain, still less alevel alluvial tract like those of Northern Italy.The Campagnaof Home,as it is called at the presentday, is a country of wholly different character fromthe ancient Campania. It is a broad undulatingtract, never rising into considerable elevation*, tutpresenting much more variety of ground than wouldbe suspected from the general uniformity of its ap­pearance, and irregularly intersected iu all direcUun*by numerous streams, which have cut for themselvesdeep channels or ravines through the soft volcanictufo of which the soil is composed, leaving on eachside steep and often precipitous banks. The brightof these, and the depth of the valleys or ravinr*which are bounded by them, vary greatly iu dirTrrrntparts of the Campagna ; but besides these local andirregular fluctuations, there is a general rise (I hoochso gradual as to be imperceptible to the eye) in thelevel of the plain towards the K. and SE.; so that,as it approaches Praeneste, it really attains to aconsiderable elevation, and the river course* whichintersect the plain in nearly parallel linen betwmithat city and the Anio become deep and narrowravines of the most formidable description. Even inthe lower and more level part* of the Campngnathe sites of ancient cities will be generally found tooccupy spaces bounded to a considerable extrtit —frequently on three sides out of four—by strrp banksof tufo rock, affording natural means of draenee,which could be easily strengthened by the simps*expedient of cutting away the face of the rocky hank,so as to render it altogether inacces»ibla. The pe­culiar configuration of the Campngna resulting fn«nthese causes is well rpprveuied «»u Sir W. Geh •map, the only one which gives at all a faithful akaof the physical geography of Latium. The volcanic origin of the greater part of Latiernhas a material influence upon its physical characterand condition. 1 he Alban mountains, as alreadymentioned, are unquestionably a great volcanic sum