OCR Output 38 LIVY. Flavius, on occasion of the funeral of his mother.There were many who represented that, under the ap­pearance of doing honor to his parent, he was makingrecompense to the people for having acquitted him,when prosecuted by the ediles on a charge of havingdebauched a married woman. This donative, intendedas a return for favors shown on the trial, proved alsothe means of procuring him the honor of a public office;for, at the next election of plebeian tribunes, thoughabsent, he was preferred before the candidates who so­licited in person. The city Palaepolis was situated atno great distance from the spot where Neapolis nowstands. The two cities were inhabited by one people :these came from Cumae, and the Cumans derive theirorigin from Chalcis in Euboea. By means of the fleetin which they had been conveyed hither they pos­sessed great power on the coast of the sea, near whichthey dwelt. Their first landing was on the islands ofjEnaria, and the Pithacnsae : afterwards they venturedto transfer their settlement to the continent. This state,relying on their own strength, and also on the'disposi­tion of the Samnites to come to a rupture with the Ro­mans ; or, encouraged by the report of a pestilencehaving attacked the city of Rome, committed variousacts of hostility against the Romans settled in the Cam-panian and Falernian territories. Wherefore, in thesucceeding consulate of Lucius Cornelius and QuintusPublilius Philo a second time, [A.U.C. 428. B.C. 324]heralds being sent to Palaepolis to demand satisfaction,and a haughty answer being returned by these Greeks,a race more magnanimous in words than in action, thepeople, in pursuance of the direction of the senate,ordered war to be declared against them. On settlingthe provinces between the consuls, the war against theGreeks fell to Publilius. Cornelius, with another army,was appointed to watch the motions of the Samnites;and a report prevailing of an expected revolt in Cam­pania, in which case- they intended to march theirtroops thither, that was judged the properest station forhim.