OCR Output 28 Ll W. fortifications were demolished by the Sidicinians. Thesenate, highly displeased with the consuls, in conse­quence of whose dilatory proceedings their allies hadbeen disappointed of support, ordered a dictator to benominated. Caius Claudius Regillensis being accord­ingly appointed, chose Caius Claudius Hortator masterof the horse. A scruple afterwards arose concerningthe dictator, and the augurs having declared his crea­tion informal, both he and the master of the horse ab­dicated their offices. This year Minucia, a vestal,falling at first under suspicion of incontinence, becauseof her dressing in a style of elegance beyond whatbecame her situation, and being afterwards prosecutedbefore the pontiffs, on the testimony of a slave, was, bytheir decree, ordered to refrain from meddling in sa­cred rites, and to retain her slaves under her ownpower.1 Being afterwards brought to trial, she wasburied alive, at the Colline gate, on the right hand ofthe causeway in the Field of Wickedness, which wasso denominated, I suppose, from her crime. The sameyear Quintus Publilius Philo was the first plebeianelected pretor. He was opposed by the consul Sulpi-cius, who refused to admit him as a candidate ; but thesenate, having failed of carrying their point with re­spect to the highest offices, showed the less earnestnessabout the pretorship. 16. The following year, [A. U. C. 419. B.C. 333]wherein Lucius Papirius Crassus and Caeso Duilliuswere consuls, was distinguished by a war with theAusonians, which deserves notice rather as they werea new enemy than on account of its importance. Thispeople inhabited the city Cales: they had united theirarms with their neighbors the Sidicinians, yet theforces of the two nations were defeated in a singlebattle without any great difficulty. Their cities, beingnear at hand, induced them to quit the field the earlier,and also afforded them shelter after their flight. How­ever, the senate did not, on this, desist from the prose- 1 For if she had made them free, they could not have beenexamined by the torture.