OCR Output 454 [Book IV. LITERATURE AND ART. probably already in the course of the sixth century, andprobably not on the stage of the capital, but on the Latinprovincial stage. In the present epoch, when the opposi­tion of the government to Hellenism abated and therebythe outward reason for banishing the togata from the Romanstage was done away, the Terentian school rapidly tookpossession of this species of comedy also ; it was quite in ac­cordance with its spirit to naturalize Greek comedy in Italyon the one hand by faithful translation, and on the other Afranius. hand by pure Roman imitation. The chief representative90. of this school was Lucius Afranius (nourished about 660).The fragments of his comedies remaining give no distinctimpression, but they are not inconsistent with what theRoman critics of art remark regarding him. His nume­rous national comedies were in their construction thoroughlyformed on the model of the Greek intrigue-piece; only, aswas natural in imitation, they were simpler and shorter.In the details also he borrowed what pleased him partly fromMenander, partly from the older national literature. Butof the Latin local colouring, which is so distinctly marked inTitinius the creator of this species of art, we find not muchin Afranius; his subjects retain a very general character,and may have been throughout imitations of particularGreek comedies with merely an alteration of costume. Apolished eclecticism and adroitness in composition—literaryallusions not unfrequently occur—are characteristic of himas of Terence: the moral tendency too, in which his piecesapproximated to the drama, their inoffensive tenor in a policepoint of view, their purity of language are common to himwith the latter. Afranius is sufficiently indicated as of akindred spirit with Menander and Terence by the judgmentof posterity that he wore the toga as Menander would haveworn it had he been an Italian, and by his own expressionthat to his mind Terence surpassed all other poets. Atellanre, The farce appeared afresh at this period in the field ofRoman literature. It was in itself very old (i. 236) : longbefore Rome arose, the merry youths of Latium probablyimprovised on festal occasions in masks once for all esta­blished for particular characters. These pastimes obtaineda fixed local background in the Latin "asylum of fools,"for which they selected the formerly Oscan town of Atellawhich was destroyed in the Hannibalic war and wasthereby handed over to comic use; thenceforth the name