OCR Output CHAP. 6. ROMAN HISTORY. 319 'with whom he can neither share the public honours of* the state, nor private alliance by marriage.' CHAP. VI. Military Tribunes of either order, proposed to supersedeConsuls. HE consuls having also gone out to the assembly ofthe people, from long speeches the parties now fell toaltercation. The tribune put the question, why a Pletbeian might not attain to the consulship? It was answer­ed, perhaps with some truth, though to little purpose onthe present occasion, that no Plebeian had a right to theauspices, for which reason the decemvirs had declaredsuch marriages void, as in a heterogeneous race, theauspices might be rendered uncertain. It is impossible to express the indignation of the peotpip, when they heard that they were to be denied theauspices, as men bateful to the immortal gods. And asin their tribune they had a most intrepid cham.pion, andwere themselves no less determined, the fathers were atlast obliged to suffer the law concerning marriages topass; persuaded, that fronp this concession, the tribuneswould be induced to drop entirely the other bill respect­ing the Plebeian consuls, or at least suspend it till theconclusion of the war; and that the people, satisfied withobtaining a repeal of the marriage-act, would cheerfullyagree to the levies. But as Canuleius' victory over thefathers had raised his credit and influence among thepeople to an extraordinary height, the other tribunes,emulous of his glory, exerted all their influence to carrythe law they had proposed; and though the reports ofthe impending war became every day more flagrant, theystill obstructed the levies. ^^ The consuls fmding that nothing effectual could beconcluded in the senate, by reason of the interruptionthey met with from the tribunes, held meetings of thenobility in their own houses; to whom it appeared evi­dent, that matters were now come to that pass, that theymust yield the victory, either to the enemy abroad, orto the people at home. Valerius and Horatius were the.