OCR Output A. D. 20.] 161 OF TACITUS. to the rage of legislation. But the respite was butshort. The fiery genius of Lepidus preferred a num­ber of seditious decrees, and the tribunes of the peo­ple, resuming their ancient powers, alarmed the statewith tumult and popular commotions. The generalgood was no longer thought of: new characters ap­peared in the great scene of public business, and newstatutes were enacted. In a corrupt republic vice in­creased, and laws were multiplied. XXVIII. Pompey at length, in his third consulship,was chosen to correct abuses, and introduce a refor­mation of manners. His remedies were more perni­cious than the mischief. He made laws, and brokethem; he had recourse to arms, and by force of armswas ruined. From that time, during a period oftwenty years, the rage of civil discord threw everything into confusion. Justice was silent; tho man­ners were corrupted; vice triumphed with impunity,and virtue met with sure destruction. At length,Augustus in his sixth consulship, finding himself esta­blished without a rival, repealed the acts passed byhimself during the triumvirate, and gave a new sys­tem, useful indeed to the public tranquillity, but sub­versive of the constitution; fit only for the govern­ment of one. The chains of slavery were closelyriveted, and spies of state were appointed. To ex­cite and animate the diligence of those new o'fFicers,the law Papia Poppsea held forth rewards. By thatlaw, the people, under the fiction of universal parent,were declared heirs to the vacant possessions ofsuch as lived in celibacy, regardless of the privilegesannexed to the paternal character. To enforce thisregulation, informers were encouraged. The geniusof those men knew no bounds: they harassed thecity of Rome, and stretched their harpy-hands allover Italy. Wherever they found a citizen, theyfound a man to be plundered. Numbers were ruin­ed, and all were struck with terror. To stop the pro­gress of the mischief, Tiberius ordered a set of com­missioners, to be drawn by lot; five of consular rank,five prsetorians, and a like number from the body ofthe seriate. Under their direction the law was ex­ 0^1