OCR Output am. 1076.] 243 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. arose and washed himself, and took a whitegarment, and came into the tabernacle of God.He also commanded them to set supper be­fore him, and thereby greatly surprised hiskindred and servants; while he did nothingof this when the child was sick; but did it allwhen he was dead. Whereupon having firstbegged leave to ask him a question, they be­sought him to tell them the reason ot thisconduct. He then called them unskilful peo­ple, and instructed them how he had hopes ofthe recovery of the child while it was alive;and accordingly did all that was proper forhim to do, as thinking by such means to ren­der God propitious: but that when the childwas dead, there was no longer any occasionfor grief, which was then to no purpose.When he had said this, they commended theking's wisdom and understanding. He thenwent unto Bathsheba his wife, and she con­ceived and bare a son; and, by the commandof Nathan the prophet, called his name Solo­mon.* But Joab sorely distressed the Ammonitesin the siege, by cutting off their waters; anddepriving them of other means of subsistence:till they were in the greatest want of drinkand meat, for they depended only on onesmall well of water; and this they durst notdrink of too freely, lest the fountain shouldentirely fail. So he wrote to the king andinformed him thereof; and persuaded him tocome himself and take the city, that he mighthave the honour of the victory. Upon thisletter of Joab's, the king accepted of hisgood will and fidelity; and took with him hisarmy, and came to the destruction of Rahab; and when he had taken it by force, he gave itto his soldiers to plunder it. But he himselftook the king of the Ammonites crown, whoseweight was a talent of gold;f and it had inits middle a precious stone, called a sardonyx:which crown David ever after wore on hisown head. He also found many other ves­sels in the city, and those both splendidand of great price, but as for the men, heJtormented them, and then destroyed them.And when he had taken the other cities ofthe Ammonites by force, he treated themafter the same manner. CHAP. VIII. OF THE VIOLATION OF TAMAR BV HER BROTHER AMNON;THE REVENGE OF ABSALOM, AND HIS BANISHMENT ANDRECALL BY KING DAVID. WHEN the king returned to Jerusalem,a sad misfortune befell his house, onthe following occasion. He had a daughternamed Tamar,|| who was yet a virgin, andvery handsome; insomuch that she surpassedall the most beautiful women. She had thesame mother with Absalom. Now Amnon,David's eldest son, fell in love with her, andbeing not able to obtain his desires, on ac­count of the custody she was under, his griefpreyed upon him so much that he grew lean,and his colour was changed. Now there wasone Jonadab, a kinsman and friend of his,who discovered his passion; for he was an ex­traordinary wise man, and of great sagacityof mind. When therefore he saw that everymorning Amnon was not in body as he oughtto be, he came to him, and desired him to * 2 Sam. xii. 24. t A talent of gold was but about seven pounds weight.Nor could Josephus well estimate it higher, since he heresays, that David wore it on his head perpetually. J Whether Josephus saw the words of our other copies,2 Sam. xii. 31. and 1 Chron. xx. 3. that David put theinhabitants, or at least the garrison of Rabbah, and of theother Ammonite cities, which he besieged and took, un­der, or cut them with saws and under or with harrows ofiron, and under or with axes of iron, and made them passthrough the brick-kiln; is not here directly expressed.If he saw them, as is most probable he did, he certainlyexpounded them of tormenting these Ammonites to death,who yet were none of those seven nations of Canaan,whose wickedness had rendered them incapable of mercy.Otherwise I should be inclined to think that the meaning,at least as the words are in Samuel, might only be this,that they were made the lowest slaves, to work in sawingtimber, or stone; in harrowing the fields; in hewing VOL. I.—NOS. 21 k 22. timber; in making and burning bricks; and the like hardservices; but without taking away their lives. We neverelsewhere, that I remember, meet with such methods ofcruelty in putting men to death in all the Bible, or in anyother ancient history. Nor do the words in Samuel seemnaturally to refer to any such thing. II Virgins of the blood royal were kept secluse in apart­ments, separate from the commerce of men, into whichnot only strangers, but even their own fathers, were notpermitted to enter. Amnon, however, at some time orother, had seen the beautiful Tamar, or otherwise hecould not have conceived so strong a passion for her.Upon some certain ceremonial occasions indeed, it wascustomary for the young women to walk out, and shewthemselves; but, considering their close confinement atother times, it was hardly possible for Amnon to find anopportunity of declaring his passion, much more of grati­fying it; and therefore, out of pure despair, he pinedhimself into a consumption; Calmet's Commentary. B.3 A