OCR Output 824 TITUS LIVIU?' BOOK III. ceptiug when the law was in question. On all other oc­casions, they were all affability and complaisance to thecommons. Nay, the tribunes had not only full libertyto do their other business quietly, but without a contra-dictive word, or the least violence offered them, were re-chosen to their office for the ensuing year; condescen­sions and compliances, by which they gradually soothedthe multitude, and effectually defeated every attempt infavour of the laws for all that year. •CHAP. xv. Herdonius' attempt upon Rome. A. R. 293. \VHEN C. Claudius, son of Appras, and P. ValeriusPublicuia, succeeded to the consulship, they found great­er harmony in the state, than it had enjoyed for some. time before. The new year produced nothing remark­able, as to getting the bill passed; and to prevent it,continued to be the sole object of public attention.The more the young nobles insinuated themselves into.the good graces of the .Plebeians, the more vigilant werethe tribunes in setting every engine at work, by loading-then] with calumnies, to render them suspected. Theyalledged, " That there was a conspiracy on foot ;•—that"Caeso was actually at Rome;—that measures were."concerted for murdering the tribunes, and massacringthe commons: That the elder senators had given it incharge to the younger, to suppress the tribunitianpower, and to restore the state to that form of govern-.ment which prevailed in Rome before the secessionto the mons sacer." Moreover, they dreaded a warwith the jEqui and Volsci, which was now become com­mon, as it happened regularly almost every year: but, inthe mean time, another new and unexpected calamitybecame the object of their attention, nearer home. The capitol and fortress adjacent to it, was surprisedand seized in the nightime, by 4500 out-laws andslaves, with Appius Herdonius, a Sabine, at their head.A1I that were found in the citadel, who refused to joinin their enterprise, and take up arms with them, wereimmediately put to death. In the confusion, some agi­