OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 341 merit of the execution. From the library of Tribonian,they chose forty, the most eminent civilians of formertimes :g two thousand treatises were comprised in anabridgment of fifty-books; and it has been carefully re­corded, that three millions of lines or sentences,11 werereduced, in this abstract, to the moderate number of onehundred and fifty-thousand. The edition of this greatwork was delayed a month after that of the institutes;and it seemed reasonable that the elements should pre­cede the digest of the Roman law. As soon as the em­peror had approved their labours, he ratified, by his le­gislative power, the speculations of these private citizens:their commentaries on the twelve tables, the perpetualedict, the laws of the people, and the decrees of the se­nate, succeeded to the authority of the text; and thetext was abandoned, as a useless, though venerable, re­lic of antiquity. The Code, the Pandects, and the In­stitutes, were declared to be the legitimate system of civiljurisprudence; they alone were admitted in the tribunals,and they alone were taught in the academies of Rome,Constantinople, and Berytus. Justinian addressed tothe senate and provinces his eternal oracles; and hispride, under the mask of piety, ascribed the consumma­tion of this great design to the support and inspirationof the Deity. Since the emperor declined the fame and envy of ori- Praise and . , . . . . iaii censure of gmal composition, we can only require at his nanus, me- the Codethod, choice, and fidelity, the humble, though indispens- an"able, virtues of a compiler. Among the various combi­nations of ideas, it is difficult to assign any reasonable s Angelus Politianns (lib. 5. Epist. ult.) reckons thirty-seven (p. 192—200.) civi­lians quoted in the Pandects—a learned, and, for his times, an extraordinary list.The Greek Index to the Pandects enumerates thirty-nine; and forty are produced bythe indefatigable Fabricius. (Bibliot. Graec. tom. 3. p. 488—502.) Antoninus Au­gustus (de Nominibus Propriis; Pandect, apud Lndewig, p. 283.) is said to haveadded fifty-four names; but they must be vague or second-hand references. h The Zti^oi of the Ancient MSS. may be strictly defined as sentences or periodsof a complete sense, which, on the breadth of the parchment rolls or volumes, com­posed as many lines of unequal length. The number of Tricot in eaeh book served asa check on the errors of the scribes. (Ludewig, p. 211—215. and his original authorSuicer. Thesaur. Ecclesiast. tom. 1. p. 1021—1036.)