OCR Output 320 • DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. Their eh*- Whatever might be the origin or the merit of theinfluence, twelve tables," they obtained among the Romans thatblind and partial reverence which the lawyers of everycountry delight to bestow on their municipal institu­tions. The study is recommended by Cicero" as equallypleasant and instructive. {< They amuse the mind bythe remembrance of old words and the portrait of an­cient manners; they inculcate the soundest principles ofgovernment and morals; and I am not afraid to affirm,that the brief composition of the decemvirs surpasses ingenuine value the libraries of Grecian philosophy. Howadmirable (says Tully, with honest or affected prejudice)is the wisdom of our ancestors! We alone are the mas­ters of civil prudence, and our superiority is the moreConspicuous, if we deign to cast our eyes on the rude andalmost ridiculous jurisprudence of Dracon, of Solon, andpf Lycurgus," The twelve tables were committed to thememory of the young, and the meditation of the old;they were transcribed and illustrated with learned dili­gence: they had escaped the flames of the Gauls, theysubsisted in the age of Justinian, and their subsequentloss has been imperfectly restored by the labours of mo­dern critics.7 But although these venerable monumentswere considered as the rule of right, and the fountain ofjustice," they were overwhelmed by the weight and va­riety of new laws, which, at the end of five centuries, be­came a grievance more intolerable than the vices of the•city." Three thousand brass plates, the acts of the se- "Bjo^sm; xeti a«£irr«; is the praise of Diodoros, (tom. 1. lib. 12. p. 494.) whichmay be fairly translated by the eleganti atque absoluta breyitate verborum of Aulas1 Gellius. (Noct. Attic. 21.1.).- * Listen to Cicero, (de Legibus, 2. 23.) and his representative Crassus. (de Ora-1 tore, 1. 43, 44.) y See Heineccius, (Hist. J. R. no. 29—33.) I have followed the restoration ofthe twelve tables by Gravina (Origines J. C. p. 280—307.) and Terasson. (Hist, dela Jurisprudence Romaine, p. 94-T-205.) 1 Finis aequi juris. (Tacit. Annal. 3. 27.) Fons omnia public! et privati juris. (T,[Liv. 3. 34.) a De principiis juris, et quibus modis ad hanc multitadinem infimtam ac yarietatemlegam perventum sit altius disseram. (Tacit. Annal. 3. 25). This deep disquisition'fills only two pages, but they are the pages of Tacitus. With equal sense, but with'jess energy, Livy (3. 34.) had complained, in hac immeuso aliarmu super alias aceriyatarum Iegum cumulii, &c.