OCR Output CHAP. I A. 465 of the church, the votes of a senate, or the memory of afree constitution. The authority of the companions ofMahomet expired with their lives; and the chiefs oremirs of the Arabian tribes left behind, in the desert, thespirit of equality and independence. The regal andsacerdotal characters were united in the successors ofMahomet; and if the Koran was the rule of their actions,they were the supreme judges and interpreters of thatdivine book. They reigned by the right of conquestover the nations of the east, to whom the name of libertywas unknown, and who were accustomed to applaud intheir tyrants the acts of violence and severity that wereexercised at their own expense. Under the last of theOmmiades, the Arabian empire extended two hundreddays' journey from east to west, from the confines of Tar-tary and India to the shores of the Atlantic ocean. Andif we retrench the sleeve of the robe, as it is styled bytheir writers, the long and narrow province of Africa, thesolid and compact dominion from Fargana to Aden, fromTarsus to Surat, will spread on every side to the measureof four or five months of the march of a caravan.1" Weshould vainly seek the indissoluble union and easy obe足dience that pervaded the government of Augustus andthe Antonines: but the progress of the Mahometan reli足gion diffused over this ample space a general resem足blance of manners and opinions. The language and lawsof the Koran were studied with equal devotion at Samar-cand and Seville: the Moor and the Indian embracedas countrymen and brothers in the pilgrimage of Mecca;and the Arabian language was adopted as the popularidiom in all the provinces to the westward of the Tigris." '" See the article Eslamiah (as we say Christendom) in the Bibliotheque Orientate(p. 335.) This chart of the Mahometan world is suited by the author, Ebn Alwardi,to the year of the Hegira 385. (A. D. 995.) Since that time the losses in Spain havebeen overbalanced by the conquests in India, Tartary, and the European Turkey. "The Arabic of the Koran .is taught asa dead language in the college of Mecca.By the Danish traveller, this ancient idiom is compared to the Latin; the vulgartongue of Hejaz and Yemen to the Italian; and the Arabian dialects of Syria,Egypt, Africa, &c. to the Proven9al, Spanish, and Portuguese. (Niebuhr, Descrip足tion de I'Arabie, p. 74, &c.) VOL. VI. 2 H