OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 67 embraced the Jewish religion, to send purple and gold to thetemple at Jerusalem, and, when they had gotten them, they em­ployed them for their own uses, and spent the money them­selves ; on which account it was that they at first required it ofher. Whereupon Tiberius, who had been informed of thething by Saturninus, the husband of Fulvia, who desired inqui­ry might be made about it, ordered all the Jews to be banishedout of Rome; at which time the consuls listed 4000 men outof them, and sent them to the island Sardinia ; but punished agreater number of them, who were unwilling to become soldiers,on account of keeping the laws of their forefathers *. Thuswere these Jews banished out of the city by the wickedness offour irien: CHAP. iv. * How the Samaritans made a tumult, and Pilate destroyed many ofthem : bow Pilate was accused, and what things were done byVitellius relating to the Jews and the Parthians. • J 1. T>UT the nation of die Samaritans did not escape without-"-^ tumults. The man who excited them to it, was onewho thought lying a thing of little consequence, and who con­trived every thing so that the multitude might be pleased ; sdhe bid them to get together upon Mount Gerixzim, which isby them looked upon as the most holy of all mountains, andassured them, that when they were come thither, he wouldshew them those sacred vessels which were laid under that place,because Moses f put them' there. So they came thither armed, I 2 and * Of the banishment of these 4000 Jews into Sardinia by Tiberius, see Stieto-aius in Tiber' seel. 36. But as for Mr Reland's nore here, which supposes, thatJews could not, consistently with their laws, be soldiers, it is contradicted byOne branch of the history before us, and contrary to innumerable instances oftheir fighting, and proving excellent soldiers in war; and indeed many of thebest of them, and even under heathen kings themselves, did so,' those, 1 mean,who allowed them their rest on the Sabbath-day, and other soiemn festivals, andlet them live according to their own laws, as Alexander the Great and the Pto­lemies of Egypt did. It is true, they could not always obtain those privileges,and then they got excused as well as they could, or sometimes absolutely refusedto fight, which seems to have been the case here, as to the major part of theJews now banished, but nothing more. See several of the Roman decrees hitheir favour as to such matters, B. XIV. ch. jt. t Since Moses never came himself bc'yond Jordan, nor particularly to MountGerizzim, and since these Samaritans have a tradition among them, related hereby Dr Hudson, from Reland, who was very skilful in Jewish and Samaritanlearning, that in the days of Uzzi or Ozzi the high priest, i Chron. vi. 6' the arkand other sacred vessels were, by God's command, laid up or hidden in MountGerizzim, it is highly probable that this was the foolish foundation the present;Samaritans went upon, in the sedition here described, and that we Should readhere anas, instead of MVWIM, in the text of Josephus.