OCR Output 176 ROMAN EMPIRE. to the substance of Christ's body," I have purposelyabandoned to the curiosity of speculative divines.But I have reviewed, with diligence and pleasure,the objects of ecclesiastical history, by which the de­cline and fall of the Roman empire were materiallyaffected, the propagation of Christianity, the constitu­tion of the Catholic church, the ruin of Paganism,and the sects that arose from the mysterious contro­versies concerning the Trinity and incarnation. Atthe head of this class, we may justly rank the wor­ship of images, so fiercely disputed in the eighth andninth centuries; since a question of popular supersti­tion produced the revolt of Italy, the temporal powerof the popes, and the restoration of the Roman empirein the west. The primitive Christians were possessed with an un­conquerable repugnance to the use and abuse of images,and this aversion may be ascribed to their descent fromthe Jews, and their enmity to the Greeks. The Mosaiclaw had severely proscribed all representations of theDeity; and that precept was firmly established, in theprinciples and practice of the chosen people. The witof the Christian apologists was pointed against the foolishidolaters, who bowed before the workmanship of theirown hands; the images of brass and marble, which hadthey been endowed with sense and motion, should havestarted rather from the pedestal to adore the creativepowers of the artist.b Perhaps some recent and imper­fect converts of the Gnostic tribe, might crown thestatues of Christ and St. Paul with the profane honourswhich they paid to those of Aristotle and Pythagoras ;c » The learned Sold™ has given the history of transubstantiation in a compre­hensive and pithy sentence.—" This opinion is only rhetoric turned into logic."(His Works, vol. 3. p. S073. in his Table talk.) b Nee intelligunt homines ineptissimi, qudd si sentire simulacra et moveri po»-sent, adoraturahominemfmssent a quo sunt expolita. (Divin. Institut. lib. t. c. -'.)Lactantius is the last, as well as the most eloquent, of the Latin apologists. Theirraillery of idols attacks not only the object, but the form and matter. c See Irenaeus, Epiphanius, and Augustin. (Basnage, Hist , des F.glisrs Refor-mees, torn. 2. p. 1313.) This Gnostic practice has a singular affinity with the