OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 43 be destroyed by their bloody enemies; for they fell upon thegates in great crowds, and earnestly calling to those thatkept them, and that by their names also, yet had they theirthroats cut in the very midst of their supplications; for theenemy shut the gates of the first wall, and their own citizensshut the gates of the second, so they were enclosed betweentwo walls, and were slain in great numbers together: manyof them were run through by swords of their own men, andmany by their own swords, besides an immense number thatwas slain by the Romans. Nor had they any courage to re­venge themselves; for there was added to the consternationthey were in from the enemy, their being betrayed by theirown friends, which quite broke their spirits; and at last theydied, cursing not the Romans, but their own citizens, till theywere all destroyed, being in number twelve thousand. SoTrajan gathered that the city was empty of people that couldfight, and, although there should a few of them be therein, hesupposed that they, would be too timorous to venture uponany opposition; so he reserved the taking of the city to thegeneral. Accordingly, he sent messengers to Vespasian, anddesired him to send his son Titus to finish the victory he hadgained. Vespasian hereupon imagining there might be somepains still necessary, sent his son with an army of five hun­dred horsemen, and one thousand footmen. So he camequickly to the city, and put his army in order, and set Trajanover the left wing, while he had the right himself, and ledthem to the siege; and when the soldiers brought ladders tobe laid against the wall on every side, the Galileans opposedthem from above for a while, but soon afterward they leftthe walls. Then did Titus's men leap into the city, andseized upon it presently; but when those that were in it weregotten together, there was a fierce battle between them: forthe men of power fell upon the Romans in the narrow streets,and the women threw whatsoever came next to hand at them,and sustained a fight with them for six hours' time ; but whenthe fighting-men were spent, the rest of the multitude hadtheir throats cut, partly in the open air and partly in theirown houses, both young and old together. So there were no