OCR Output P. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 321 nate and people, were deposited in the Capitol :* andsome of the acts, as the Julian law against extortion,surpassed the number of a hundred chapters.0 The de­cemvirs had neglected to import the sanction of Zaleu-cus, which so long maintained the integrity of his re­public. A Locrian, who proposed any new law, stoodforth in the assembly of the people with a cord roundhis neck, and if the law was rejected, the innovator wasinstantly strangled. The decemvirs had been named, and their tables were ^wsof * the people. approved, by an assembly of the centuries, in whichriches preponderated against numbers. To the firstclass of Romans, the proprietors of one hundred thou­sand pounds of copper,*1 ninety-eight votes were assigned,and only ninety-five were left for the six inferior classes,distributed according to their substance by the artful po­licy of Servius. But the tribunes soon established amore specious and popular maxim, that every citizen hasan equal right to enact the laws which he is bound toobey. Instead of the centuries, they convened thetribes; and the patricians, after an impotent struggle,submitted to the decrees of an assembly, in which theirVotes were confounded with those of the meanest ple­beians. Yet as long as the tribes successively passedover narrow bridges," and gave their voices aloud, the b Suetonius in Vespasiano, c. 8.c Cicero ad Familiares, 8. 8. * Dionysius, with Arbuthnot, and most of the moderns, (except Eisenschmidt dePonderibus, &c. p. 137—140.) represent the one hundred thousand asses by tenthousand Attic drachmae, or somewhat more than three hundred pounds sterling.But their calculation can apply only to the latter times, when the as was diminishedto one-twenty-fourth of its ancient weight: nor can I believe that in the first ages,'however destitute of the precious metals, a single ounce of silver could have beenexchanged for seventy pounds of copper or brass. A more simple and rational me­thod is, to value the copper itself according to the present rate, and, after comparingthe mint and the market price, the Roman and avoirdupois weight, the primitive asor Roman ponnd of copper may be appreciated at one English shilling, and the onehundred thousand asses of the first class amounted to five thousand pounds sterling.It will appear from the same reckoning, that an ox was sold at Rome for 5(. a sheepfor 10s. and a quarter of wheat for 11.10s. (Festus, p. 330. edit. Dacier; Plin. Hist.Natur. 18. 4.) nor do I see any reason to reject these consequences, which moderatopur. ideas of the poverty of the first Romans. , • Consult the common writers on the Roman Comitia, especially Sigonius andBeaufort. Spauheim (de Pnestantia et Usu Numismatum, tom. 2. dissert. 10. p. 192,shews, on a curious medal, the Cista, Pontes, Septa, Dirihitor, &o.