OCR Output 324 THE HISTORY BOOK" Valcrii and Horatii for confuls, who would poft-t.» A".! __." pone their own intereft to the liberty of the com-Y.R. 306. " mons." By a concurrence of circumftances, for-B.c. 446. tunate at the juncture, the office of prefiding at theelection fell mof t luckily to the lot of Marcus Duili-us, a man of prudence, and who clearly perceivedwhat a heavy load of public difpleafure they wouldprobably have to fuftain, if they fhould be continuedin office. He declared, that he would admit no votefor any of the former tribunes; while his colleaguesftrenuoufly infifted, that he fhould leave the tribes atliberty to vote as they thought proper; or elfe,fhould give up his turn of prefiding ro his colleagues,who would hold the election, according to the laws,rather than according to the pleafure of the patri-•cians. Duilius, on finding a conteft thus forced up­on him, called the con fills to his feat, and afkedthem what was their intention with refpect to theelection of confuls? To which they anfwered, thatthey intended to appoint new confuls. Having thusgained popular fupporters of his unpopular meafure,he advanced together with them into the afiembly.The confuls being there produced before the peo­ple, and afked, in what manner they would act, mouldthe Roman people, out of gratitude for having, bytheir means, recovered their liberty, and for their me­ritorious and fuccefsful fervices in war, appoint thema fecond time to the confulfhip, declared the famerefolution as before. On which, after many eulogi-ums paid to the confuls, for perfevering in a' line ofconduct quite different from that of the decemvirs,he proceeded to the election j and when five tribunesof the commons were elected, the other candidatesnot being able to make up the reqaifite number oftribes, on account of the eagernefs with which thenine tribunes openly pufhed for the office, he dif-mified the afiembly, and did not calt one afterwardsfor an election. He faid, that he had fulfilled thelaw; which, without any where fpecifying the num­ber