OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 221 without success, and came to Sepphoris, the greatest city of allGalilee. Now the men of that city who inclined to the Romansin their sentiments, met them indeed, but neither praised nor re­proached me ; and when they were gone clown from Sepphoristo Asochis, the people of that place made a clamour against them,as those of Japha had done. Whereupon they were able to con­tain themselves no longer, but ordered the armed men that werewith them to beat those that made the clamour with their clubs.And when they came to Gabara, John met them with threethousand armed men ; but, as I understood by their letter, thatthey had resolved to fight against me, I arose from Chabolo, withthree thousand armed men also ; but left in my camp one of myfastest friends and came to Jotapata, as desirous to be near them,the distance being no more than forty furlongs. Whence I wrotethus to them : " If you are very desirous that I should come to"' you, you know there are two hundred and forty cities and vil-" lages in Galilee, I will come to any of them which you please," excepting Gabara and Gischala ; the one of which is John's'' native city, and the other in confederacy and friendship with". him." 46. When Jonathan and his partners had received this letter,they wrote to me no more answers, but called a council of theirfriends together, and taking John into their consultation, theytook counsel together by what means they might attack me.John's opinion was, that they should write to all the cities andvillages that were in Galilee ; for that there must be certainlyone or two persons in every one of them that were at variancewith me, and that they be invited to come to oppose me as anenemy. He would also have them send this resolution of theirsto the city Jerusalem, that its citizens, upon the knowledge of mybeing adjudged to be an enemy by the Galileans, might them­selves also confirm that determination. He said also, that whenthis was done, even those Galileans who were affected to me,would desert me out of fear. When John had given them thiscounsel, what he had said was very agreeable to the rest ofthem. I was also made acquainted with these affairs about thethird hour of the night, by the means of one Saccheus, who hadbelonged to them, but now deserted them and came over to me,and told me what they were about; so I perceived that no timewas to be lost. Accordingly I gave command to Jacob, an armedman of my guard, whom I esteemed faithful to me, to take twohundred men and to guard the passages that led from Gabara toGalilee, and to seize upon the passengers, and send them to me,especially such as were caught with letters about them: I alsosent Jeremias himself, one of my friends, with six hundred arrced men,