OCR Output LIVY. the lieutenant-generals, questors, and military tribunesto join them. Let it not then be demanded of me, whyI entered into such a compact, when do such powerwas lodged in a consul, and when I could not, eitherto them insure a peace, of which I could not commandthe ratification ; or in behalf of you, who had given meno powers. Conscript fathers, none of the transactionsat Caudium were directed by human wisdom. Theimmortal gods deprived of understanding both yourgenerals and those of the enemy. On the one side, weacted not with sufficient caution ; on the other, theythrew away a victory, which through our folly theyhad obtained, while they hardly confided in the placesby means of which they had conquered; but were inhaste, on any terms, to take arms out of the hands ofmen who were born to arms. Had their reason beensound, would it have been difficult, during the timewhich they spent in sending for old men from home togive them advice to send ambassadors.to Rome, and tonegotiate a peace and treaty with the senate and withthe people? It would have been a journey of onlythree days to expeditious travellers. In the interimmatters might have rested under a truce, that is, untiltheir ambassadors should have brought from Romeeither certain victory, or peace. That would havebeen really a compact on the faith of sureties, for weshould have become sureties by order of the people.But neither would you have passed such an order, norshould we have pledged our faith ; nor was it the willof fate, that the affair should have any other issue,than that they should be vainly mocked with a dream,as it were, of greater prosperity than their minds werecapable of comprehending, and that the same fortunewhich had entangled our army should effectuate itsdeliverance ; that an ineffectual victory should be suc­ceeded by a more effectual peace ; and that a conven­tion on the faith of a surety should be introduced,which bound no other person besides the surety: forwhat part had you, conscript fathers? what part hadthe people in this affair? Who can call on you ? Whocan say that he has been deceived by you i Can the