OCR Output 58 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. then the king proceeded in continuation. "For the ad-*' vantage, prosperity, and felicity of the Roman people} ."for nry own, and for yours, O Albans, I ana resolved"to remove all the inhabitants of Alba to Rome, to make"the people citizens, and the nobles senators. In one"word, to unite the two nations in one city, and one"commonwealth, that as Alba once formed two nations"of one, she may now return to unity again." The Alban youth, at these words, were variously agi­tated in their minds; but seeing themselves surroundedwith armed soldiers, they were all impressed with thesame common fear, which kept them silent. Tulius,then turning to Mettus resumed his discourse, " If," saidhe, " you could learn to be true to your word, and faith-"ful to treaties, I would suffer you to live, and be my-"self your instructor! but as I see your disposition iis"incurable, you shall, by your punishment, teach man-"kind, to hold those things sacred and inviolable, which"you have disgracefully infringed. As therefore in"yesterday's action, you kept your mind divided be-"tween Rome and fridenae, so shall you to-day, give"your body to be divided and torn asunder." Then he ordered two chariots to be brought, drawniby four horses, and Mettus to be tied thereon, stretchedat full length. The horses were then xlrawn differentways, and his body torn in pieces, each chariot carryingalong with it the members which had been tied to it.The spectators could not stand the shocking sight, butturned away their eyes.—This was the first and lastpunishment among the Romans, that seemed inconsistentwith the laws of humanity. In all other instances, theycould boast that no other nation punished with less se­verity- CHAP. XXIX. Alba destroyed. J.N the mean time, the horse had been previously dis­patched to Alba, to bring the people to Rome; and afterthat, tbe foot, to demolish the city. Their entry there,was not attended with that tomult and confusion, whichgenerally accompany the taking of towns-, when thfe