OCR Output ». II. 189 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. chor just without it. This cape belonged to the Athenianalliance, but the other cape*, over against it, belonged to thePeloponnesians. The arm of sea which divides them isabout seven stadiaf over; and this is the mouth of the gulfof Crissa. The Peloponnesians with a fleet of seventy-sevenships rode also at anchor under the cape of Achaia, whichis not far distance from Panormus, where their land-forceslay. When they had here a sight of the Athenians, bothparties lay for six or seven days over-against each other, in­tent on the needful preparations for engaging. The schemeon each side was this: The Peloponnesians, struck withtheir former defeat, would not sail from without their capes into the open sea: The Athenians would not enter into the straits, judging it would be an advantage to the enemyto fight in a narrow compass. At length Cnemus, Brasidas,and the other Peloponnesian commanders, desirous to comesoon to an engagement, before the Athenian squadron shouldreceive a reinforcement, called first their soldiers together,and seeing some of them not yet recovered from the terroroccasioned by the former defeat, and by no means eager tofight again, endeavoured to animate and rouse up their cou­rage by the following harangue " If the former engagement, ye men of Peloponnesus," affects any of you with sad apprehensions about the event" of another, know that it by no means affords you any rea-" sonable ground for such desponding thoughts. That was" owing, as you well know, to a deficiency in all needful" preparations ; for you were not then fitted out for service" of sea, but for the service of land. We then were dis-" tressed in several respects by the adverse turns of fortune;" and in some, we who fought for the first time at sea run" into errors through want of skill. It thus happened that" we were defeated, but not through any cowardice of our • The cape on the Peloponnesian side was called Rhium, or the Rhiumof Achaia: the opposite cape Antirrhiuni, or Molychrium.t About three quarters of a mile.Vol. I. 2 P