OCR Output 124 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX; gave them, by which he had purchased their kindness to him :so they drew their swords, and Sabinus led them on. He wasone of the tribunes, not by the means of the virtuous actions ofhis progenitors, for he had been a gladiator, but he had obtainedthat post in the army by his having a robust body. So theseGermans marched along the houses in quest of Cassar's murder­ers, and cut Asprenas to pieces, because he was the first man theyfell upon, and whose garment it was that the blood of the sacri­fices stained, as 1 have said already, and which foretold that thishis meeting the soldiers would not be for his good. Then didNorbanus meet them, who was one of the principal nobility ofthe cfty, and could shew many generals of armies among his an­cestors ; but they paid no regard to his dignity ; yet was he ofsuch great strength, that he wrested the sword of the first of thosethat assaulted him out of his hands, and appeared plainly not tobe willing to die without a struggle for his life, until he Was sur­rounded by a great number of assailants, and died by the multi­tude 'of the wounds which they gave him. The third manwas Anteius, a senator, and a few others with him. He did notmeet with these Germans by chance, as the rest did before, butcame to shew his hatred to Caius, and because he loved to seeCaius lie dead with his own eyes, and took a pleasure in thatfight; for Caius had banished Antcius's father, who was of thesame name with himself, and, being not satisfied with that, hesent out his soldiers, and slew him; so he was come to rejoice atthe sight of him, now he was dead. But as the house was nowall in a tumult, when he was aiming to hide himself, he couldnot escape that accurate search which the Germans made, whilethey barbarously slew those that were guilty, and those that werenot guilty, and this equally also. And thus were these [three}persons slain. . 10. Bnt when the rumour that Caius was slain reached thetheatre, they were astonished at it, and could not believe it :even some that entertained his destruction with great pleasure,and were more desirous of its happening than almost any othersatisfaction that could come to them, were under such a fear,that they could not believe it. There were also those whogreatly distrusted it, because they were unwilling that any suchthing should come to Caius, nor could believe it, though it wereever so true, because they thought no man could possibly haveso much power as to kill Caius. These were the women, andthe children, and the slaves, and some of the soldiery. This lastsort hud taken his pay, and in a manner tyrannized with him,and h;id abused the best of his citizens, in being subservient tohis.unjust commands, in order to gaiu honours and advantages to