OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 327 guard posted there' drew up in order to defend it in what­ever quarter it might possibly be assaulted. The Athenians,speedily coming up, were hindered by the natural site of theplace from forming a circle and besetting it on all sides.—Advancing therefore directly forwards, they endeavoured tobeat the defendants off. Thus, for a long time, for thegreatest part of the day, both sides persisted in the contest,under the painful pressures of battle and thirst and a burn­ing sun. No efforts were spared by the assailants to drivethem from the eminence ; nor by the defendants to maintaintheir post. But here the Lacedaemonians defended them­selves with more ease than in the preceding engagement,because now they could not be encompassed on theirflanks. When the dispute could not thus be brought to a decision,the commander of the Messenians, addressing himself toCleon and Demosthenes, assured them, " they took a deal of" pains to no manner of purpose ; but would they be per-" suaded to put under his guidance a party of the archers and" light-armed, to get a round-about way on the enemies rear" by a track which he himself could find, he was confident he" could force an entrance." Having received the party hedemanded, marching off from a spot undescried by the La­cedaemonians in order to conceal the motion, and continuingto mount higher and higher along the ridge of rock that layupon the verge of the island, in the quarter where the Lace­daemonians depending upon its natural strength had placedno guard, with great difficulty and fatigue he got behind themundiscovered. Now shewing himself on a sudden upon thesummit and in their rear, he astonished the enemy with thisunexpected appearance ; and his friends, who now beheldwhat they so earnestly looked for, he very much emboldened.The Lacedaemonians were now exposed to the missiveweapons on both sides ; and (if a point of less consequencemay be compared to one of greater) were in a state parallel