OCR Output OF ROME, 433 *c protefted againft: the fenate paffing a decree, he B O O K.<c would confider a vote of that body as fufficient '^"authority*." By which conduct, having, defervedly, Y.R. 3*7.obtained the praifes and favour of all, after he had B. Ct 4*5.nominated Publius Cornelius dictator, he was him-felf appointed by him mafter of the horfe, and af­forded an example to fuch as obferved his cafe, andthat of his colleagues, that honours and public fa­vour fometimes offer themfclves more readily tothofe who fhew no ambition for them. The warproduced no memorable event. In one" battle,and that gained without difficulty, the enemy were , • vanquifhed at Antium. The victorious armylaid the lands of the Volfcians entirely wafte.Their fort, at the lake Fucinus, was taken by ftorm,and in it three thoufand men made prifoners; the reftof the Volfcians were driven into the towns, withoutmaking any attempt to defend the country. Thedictator having conducted the war in fuch a manneras.fhewed only that he was not negligent of fortune's'favours, returned to the city with a greater fhare offuc'cefs than of glory, and refigned his office. Themilitary tribunes, without making any mention of anelection of confuls, I fuppofe through pique for theappointment of a dictator, ifTued a proclamation forthe election of military tribunes. The perplexity ofthe patricians became now greater than ever, whenthey faw their caufe betrayed by men of their ownorder. In like manner as they had therefore donethe year before, by fctting up as candidates the moftunworthy of the plebeians, they created a difguftagainft all, even the deferving; and then, by engag­ing thofe patricians wh<> were moft eminently dif-tinguifhed by the fplendor of their character, and byjheir intereft, to Hand forth as candidates, they fe~ • Many circumftances might prevent the fenate's |,afling a decree)in fuch cales the opinion of the maimuy was recorded, and wat carted• .ustii., aufteritas.' It mfght U: referred to the people for con.Jirmation. VOL. i. ft <ured