OCR Output GOLDEN STATUES. 43 of Minerva, in which Helen consecrated a goblet made of thiskind of metal; the story says that it was the size of one of herbreasts. It is the nature of Electrum to be more brilliant than silverby lamp-light. The native Electrum has also the property of de­tecting poison; if a cup of this metal contains poison, a number ofcoloured circles, like the rainbow, make their appearance, and thereis, at the same time, a hissing noise; so that we are made sensibleof the presence of poison in two ways. 24. THE FIEST GOLDEN STATUES. The first golden statue that was made without any cavity in theinside (and this was before any bronze statues were formed of thekind which they call Holosphyraton5) is said to have been placedin the temple of Anaitis, (I have mentioned above in what part ofthe world this name is used?) a deity considered peculiarly sacredby those nations. The statue was broken in pieces during theexpedition of Anthony against the Parthians. A speech is re­ported to have been made concerning it by one of the veterans ofBononia, at an entertainment which he gave to the late emperorAugustus. When he was asked, whether it was true, that he whoviolated this divinity expired, after having lost his sight and theuse of his limbs, he replied, that Augustus was then supping offher leg, for that he was the individual in question, and that it wasfrom this plunder that he derived his fortune. Gorgias, theLeontine, was the first person who had his own statue made ofsolid gold; he placed it in the temple of Delphi about the 70thOlympiad. So great was the emolument derived from teachingrhetoric! 25. THE EIGHT MEDICINES MADE OF GOLD. Gold is in many ways useful as a medicine. It is applied towounds, and also to children, to protect them from any noxiouscharms to which they may have been exposed. It has, however,itself a noxious influence, when laid upon any thing, as uponchickens or young cattle. The remedy in this case is to wash the 6 OXooQvparog, solidus, malleo confectus, probably in opposition tothose that were cast in a mould. 7 The author here probably refers to the following passage in book v.sec. 20; " Fluit (Euphrates) Derxenem primum, mox Anaiticam, &c."