OCR Output LATIUM. 135 LATIUM. which must at a distant period have been the centreof volcanic outburst* on a great scale. Besides thecentral or principal crater of this group, there areseveral minor enters, or crater-shaped hollows, at amuch lower level around its ridges, which were inall probability at different periods centres of erup­tion. Some of these have been filled with water,and thus constitute the beautiful basin-shaped lakesaf Albano and Nemi, while others have been drainedat periods more or less remote. Such is the casewith the Vallis Aricina, which appears to have atone time constituted a lake [Aricia], as well aswith the now dry basin of Comufelle, below Tus-col am, supposed, with pood reason, to be the ancientLake Regillos, and with the somewliat more con­siderable Ixtffo di Castiglione, adjoining the an­cient Gabii, which has been of late years eitherwholly or partially drained. Besides these distinctfoci of volcanic action, there remain in several partsof the Campagna spots where sulphureous and othervapours are still evolved in considerable quantities,n) as to constitute deposits of sulphur available forwonomic purposes. Such are the Logo di Sol-Jhlara near Ticoli (the Aquae Albulae of the Ko-tuaiia), and the Solfatara on the road to Ardea,Mipp«ed to be the site of the ancient Oracle ofFmnns. Numerous allusions to these sulphureousand mephitic exhalations are found in the ancientwriters, and there is reason to suppose that theywere in ancient times more numerous than at pre­sent. But the evidences of volcanic action are notconfined to these local phenomena; the whole plain<f the Campagna itself, as well as the portion ofSouthern Etruria which adjoins it, is a deposit ofvolcanic origin, consisting of the peculiar substance(ailed by Italian geologists te/b, — an aggregate ofvulcanic materials, sand, small stones, and scoriae orcinder*, together with pumice, varying in consis­tency from an almost incoherent sand to a stonelu&iently hard to be well adapted fur building pur­poses. The hardest varieties are those now calledpeprrmo, to which belong the Lapis Gabinus andLapis Albanus cf the ancients. But even the com­mon tufa was in many cases quarried for buildingpurposes, a* at the Lapidicinae Klibrae, a few milesfrom the city near the bank of the Tiber, and manyother spots in the immediate neighbourhood of Rome.(Vitmv. iL 7.) Beds of true lava are rare, but byno means wanting: the most considerable are two?: reams which have flowed from the foot of theAlban Mount; the one in the direction of Ardea,the other on the line of the Applan Way (whichruns along the ridge of it for many miles) extendinga» (ar as a spot called Capo di Bove, little more thantwo mites from the gates of Rome. It was exten-areh quarried by the Romans, who derived fromthence their principal supplies of the hard basalticlata (called by them $ikx) with which they pavedtheir high roads. Smaller beds of the same mate­rial occur near the Logo di Castiglione, and atother spota in the Campagna. (Concerning thefeological phenomena of Latium see Daubeny Onyolcanoet, pp. 162—173; and an Essay by Hoff­mann in the Beschrcibwg der Stadt Horn. vol. i.pp. 45—81.) The strip of country immediately adjoining thesea-coast of Latium differs materially from the restof the district. Between the borders of the volcanicOjxadt just described and the sea there intervenes atovad strip of sandy plain, evidently formed merelybj ftnecessive accumulations of sand from the sea, and constituting a barren tract, still covered, as itwas in ancient times, almost wholly with wood. Thisbroad belt of forest region extends without inter­ruption from the month of the Tiber near Ostia tothe promontory of Antium. The parts of it nearestthe sea are rendered marshy by the stagnation ofthe streams, that flow through it, the outlets ofwhich to the sea are blocked up by the accumula­tions of sand. The headland of Antium is formedby a mass of limestone rock, forming a remarkablebreak in the otherwise uniform line of the coast,though itself of small elevation. A bay of about8 miles across separates this headland from the lowpoint or promontory of Astura: beyond which com­mences the far more extensive bay that stretchesfrom the latter point to the mountain headland ofCirceii. The whole of this line of coast from Asturato Circeii is bordered by a narrow strip of sand-hills,within which the waters accumulate into stagnantpools or lagoon". Beyond this again is a broad sandytract, covered with dense forest and brushwood, butalmost perfectly level, and in many places marshy;while from thence to the foot of the Volscian moun­tains extends a tract of a still more marshy cha­racter, forming the celebrated district known as thePontine Marshes, and noted in ancient as well as-modern times for its insalubrity. The whole of thisregion, which, from its N. extremity at Cisterna tothe sea near Terracina, is about 30 Roman milesin length, with an average breadth of 12 miles, isperfectly flat, and, from the stagnation of the waterswhich descend to it from the mountains on the K.,has been in all ages so marshy as to be almost unin­habitable. Pliny, indeed, records a tradition thatthere once existed no less than 24 cities on the siteof what was in his days an untjeopled marsh, but acareful inspection of the locality is sufficient to provethat this must be a mere fable. (Plin. iii. 5. 8.9.)The dry land ail joining the marshes was doubtlessoccupied in ancient times by the cities or towns ofSatricum, Ulubrae, and Suessa Pometia: while on themountain ridges overlooking them rose those of Cora,Norba, Setia and Privernum; but not even the nameof any town has been preserved to us as situated inthe marshy region itself. Equally unfounded is thestatement hastily adopted by Pliny, though obviouslyinconsistent with the last, that the whole of this allu­vial tract had been formed within the historical period,a notion that appears to have arisen in consequenceof the identification of the Mons Circeius with theisland of Circe, described by Homer as situated inthe midst of an open sea. This remarkable head­land is indeed a perfectly insulated mountain, beingseparated from the Apennines near Terracina by astrip of level sandy coast above 8 miles in breadth,forming the southern extremity of the plain of thePontine Marshes; but this alluvial deposit, whichalone connects the two, must have been formed at aperiod long anterior to the historical age. The Circeian promontory formed the southern limitof Latium in the original sense. On the oppositeaide of the Pontine Marshes rises the lofty group ofthe Volscian mountains already described: and theseare separated by the valley of the Trerus or Saccofrom the ridges more immediately connected withthe central Apennines, which were inhabited by theAequiuns and Hernicans. All these mountain dis­tricts, as well as those inhabited by the Volscians onthe S. of the Liris, around Arpinum and Atina,partake of the same general character: they areoccupied almost entirely by masses and groups of