OCR Output 424 ROMAN EMPIRE. through the realm of Egypt: the folds are overspread bythe salutary flood; and the. villages communicate witheach other in their painted barks. The retreat of the in­undation deposits a fertilizing mud for the reception of thevarious seeds; the crowds of husbandmen who blacken theland may be compared to a swarm of industrious ants;and their native indolence is quickened by the lash of thetaskmaster, and the promise of the flowers and fruits ofa plentiful increase. Their hope is seldom deceived; butthe riches which they extract from the wheat, the barley,and the rice, the legumes, the fruit-trees, and the cattle, areunequally shared between those who labour and those whopossess. According to the vicissitudes of the seasons, theface of the country is adorned with a silver wave, a verdantemerald, and the deep yellow of a golden harvest.0 Yetthis beneficial order is sometimes interrupted; and thelong delay and sudden swell of the river in the first yearof the conquest might afford some colour to an edifyingfable. It is said, that the annual sacrifice of a virginphad been interdicted by the piety of Omar; and that theNile lay sullen and inactive in his shallow bed, till themandate of the caliph was cast into the obedient stream,which rose in a single night to the height of sixteencubits. The admiration of the Arabs for their new con­quest encouraged the licence of their romantic spirit. Wemay read, in the gravest authors, that Egypt was crowdedwith twenty thousand cities or villages :q that, exclusive 0 In a twenty years' residence at Cairo, tin- consul Maillet had contemplatedthat varying scene, the Nile: (lettre 2, particularly p. 70. 75.) the fertility of theland, (lettre 9.) From a college at Cambridge, the poetic eye of Gray had smthe same objects with a keener glance.— What wonder in the sultry climes that spread,Where Nile, redundant o'er his summer bed,From his broad bosom life and verdure flings,And broods o'er Egypt with his wat'ry wings;If with advent'rous oar, and ready sail,The dusky people drive before the gale:Or on frail floats to neighbouring cities ride,That rise and glitter o'er the ambient tide. (Mason's Works, and Memoirs of Gray, p. 199, 200.) i' Murtadi, p. 164—167. The reader will not easily credit a human sacrificeunder the Christian emperors, or a miracle of the successors of Mahomet. 1 Maillet, Description de 1'Egypte, p. 22. He mentions this number as th^