OCR Output 10 THE DECLINE AND FALL t band, who, in the room of a theatrical prostitute, might have selected the purestand most noble virgin of the cast.(l) II. A material difference may be observed in the games of antiquity; the mosteminent of the Greeks were actors, the Romans were merely spectators. TheOlympic stadium was open to wealth, merit, and ambition; and if the candidatescould depend on their personal skill and activity, they might pursue the footstepsof Diomede and Menelaus, and conduct their own horses in the rapid career. (2)Ten, twenty, forty chariots were allowed to start at the same instant; a crown ofleaves was the reward of the victor; and his fame, with that of his family andcountry, was chanted in lyric strains more durable than monuments of brass andmarble. But a senator, or even a citizen, conscious of his dignity, would haveblushed to expose his person or his horses in the circus of Rome. The gameswere exhibited at the expense of the republic, the magistrates, or the emperors;but the reins were abandoned to servile hands; and if the profits of a favouritecharioteer sometimes exceeded those of an advocate, they must be considered asthe effects of popular extravagance, and the high wages of a disgraceful profes­sion. The race, in its first institution, was a simple contest of two chariots, whosedrivers were distinguished by white and red liveries; two additional colours a lightgreen, and a cerulean blue, were afterward introduced; and as the races were re­peated twenty-five times, one hundred chariots contributed in the same day tothe pomp of the circus. The four factions soon acquired a legal establishment,and a mysterious origin, and their fanciful colours were derived from the variousappearances of nature in the four seasons of the year; the red dog-star of summer,the snows of winter, the deep shades of autumn, and the cheerful verdure of thespring. (3) Another interpretation preferred the elements to the seasons, and thestruggle of the green and blue was supposed to represent the conflict of the earthand sea. Their respective victories announced either a plentiful harvest, or aprosperous navigation, and the hostility of the husbandmen and mariners wassomewhat less absurd than the blind ardour of the Roman people, who devotedtheir lives and fortunes to the colour which they espoused. Such folly was dis­dained and indulged by the wisest princes; but the names of Caligula, Nero, Vi-tellius, Verus, Commodus, Caracaila, and Elagabalus, were enrolled in the blue,or green factions of the circus; they frequented their stables, applauded their fa­vourites, chastised their antagonists, and deserved the esteem of the populace, bythe natural or affected imitation of their manners. The bloody and tumultuouscontest continued to disturb the public festivity, till the last age of the spectaclesof Rome; and Theodoric, from a motive of justice or affection, interposed his au­thority to protect the greens against the violence of a consul and a patrician, whowere passionately addicted to the blue faction of the circus. (4) Constantinople adopted the follies, though not the virtues of ancient Rome; andthe same factions which had agitated the circus, raged with redoubled fury in thehippodrome. Under the reign of Anastasius, this popular phrenzy was inflamedby religious zeal: and the greens, who had treacherously concealed stones anddaggers under baskets of fruit, massacred, at a solemn festival, three thousand oftheir blue adversaries. (5) From the capital this pestilence was diffused into theprovinces and cities of the east, and the sportive distinction of two colours pro­duced two strong and irreconcilable factions, which shook the foundations of afeeble government. (6) The popular dissensions, founded on the most serious in­terest, or holy pretence, have scarcely equalled the obstinacy of this wanton dis­cord, which invaded the peace of families, divided friends and brothers, and (1) Ai she persecuted the popei, and rejected a council, Bamnius exhausts the names of Ere, Dalila, Hero*dias, &c, after which he has recourse to his infernal dictionary; civis inferni—alumna da-monura—aatanicoagitata spiritu—Kstro percita diabolico, 8c c. &c. (A. D. 548. No. 24.) f2) Read and feel the twenty-third hook of the Iliad, a living picture of manners, passions, and the wholeform and spirit of the chariot-race. West's Dissertation on the Olympic Games, (sect. aii. 17.) affords muchcuriocs and authentic information. (3) The four colours,aibati, ruMnti,pnwnu veneti, represent the four seasons, according to Cassiodorus(Var. hi. 51.) who lavishes much wit and eloquence on this theatrical mystery. Of these colours, the threefirst may be fairly translated, whtie, rev/, and green* Venetus is explained by eteruleus, a word various andvague: it is properly the sky reflected in the sea; but custom and convenience may allow blue as an equivalent(Robert Stephan. sub voce. Spence's Polymetis, p. 228.) (4) See Onuphrius Panvinsns de Ludis Ctrcensibus, lib. i. c. 10, II. the seventeenth Annotation on Mascou'sHistory of the Germans, and Aleman. ad c. 7. (5) Marcellin. in Chron. p. 47. Instead of the vulgar word Mrtero, he nses the more exquisite terms of ctcru-lea and carealit. Baronius (A. D. 501. No. iv. o.) is satisfied that the blues were orthodox; but Tillemont isangry at the supposition, and will not allow any ntartyrs in a playhouse. (Hist, des Emp. torn. vi. p. 554.) (6) See Procopius, Persic lib. i. c. 24. In describing the vices of the factions and of the government, thepublic is not more favourable than the secret historian. Aleman. (p. 26.) has quoted a fine passage from Gre­gory Nazianzen, which proves the inveteracy of the evil.