OCR Output ROMA. 7C7 '■' • CGtu Capitolinus is adduced, which ran tor Waters height, and most hare led directly tor tropic, whence it derived its name. Bnt thisa eunplete begging of the question, and the»us men probably derived its name from theL If the dinectiun of the clivus, howerer, provesrr*h.ag at ail—and we are not disposed to laymji sueai upon it—it rather proves the reversefWicrs ease. The clirns was a continuationthr Sam Via, by which, as we shall have occa-m to ih«w when treating of that road, the augurs • rnded from the Are after taking the auguries,d by which they carried up their new year's•roc* to king Tatius, who lived upon the Are:J hence in sacerdotal language the clivus itself ■ called Sacra Via. (Varro, /../.. v. § 47, Mull.;s;a», a, 190, id.). Lastly, " the confined heightJewraV wocld not have afforded sufficient room'the »parinos temple of Jupiter, the Area Capi­ta, where meetings of the people were held, andraw sb* time be able to display so many otherr *•» aad monuments." There is some degree ofrka tail observation, so far at least as the Area..•-■Tea is concerned. But when we come torrfW the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, an ac-pataDe* with which is necessary to the completew-itaading of the present question, though:iar km chosen to omit it, "as lying out uf the ■ of his book" (p 396), we shall endeavour to • how this objection may be obviated. Mean->. Baring now discussed all Becker's arguments • :r at the SW. summit as the site of theit will be more convenient shortlywhole question, and to adduce somehave led us to a directly contrary con-» «- la doing; this we do not presume to think,s Becker, that we have "completely decided",mtaon- It is one, indeed, that will not admit; >- tc demonstration; but we venture to hopet tie balance of probability may be shown to! w-bate very considerably in favour of the XK. V greater part of Becker's arguments, as weI that we hare shown, prove nothing at all,r the remainder, or those which prove Horne­ts :jt I < tamed against him. We must claimat m !■» proof drawn from the storm of the*. by the Vltellians, as described by Tacitus,aB as that derived from Mons Tarpeius beingaaaae ut tin SW. height, and that from thewit direction of the Clivus Capitolinus. Ano-wiumrct in favonr of the NK. height may be ■ rjara Ljvy's account of the trial of Maidiusemsim, to which we have already adverted: treating of the Porta Klumentana [supra,,|1 gad need Bat here repeat. To these wea»i a few more drawn from probability. east dwelt on the Are, where the temple ofV^nata afterwards stood. (Pint. Rom. 20;■a, l 3 I ) "Thia," says Becker (p. 388), " ism&t ft .trace'", and always retained its nameafWr the Capitol was built, since certaint irVwna were attached to the place and ap-{s, i, here alluding to the Are being the■raians of which Feat us says: "Auguracu-■jynJaLast aatiqni qnam nos arcem dicimus,-» aa^area poblice aaspicarentur" (p. 18,■ nan tarn arcem quam inngTiraculum "). The templum,tKtl fruin the. Are, from which the citydefined by a peculiar and appropriate form of words, which is given by Varro,(/../,. vii. § 8, MBU.) It was bounded on the lefthand and on the right by a distant tree ; the tractbetween was the temptvm or rescuwi (country region)in which the omens were observed. The augur w hoinaugurated Numa led him to the Are, seated himon a stcne, with his face turned towards the South,and sat down on his left hand, capite velato, andwith his lituus. Then, looking forwards over thecity and country — " prospectu in nrbem agrumquecapto"— he marked out the temple from east towest, and determined in his mind the sign (signum)to be observed as far as ever his eyes could reach:"quo longissime eonspectum oculi ferebant." (Liv.i. 18; cf. Cic. it Off. iii. 16.) The great extent ofthe prospect required may lie inferred from an anec­dote related by Valerius Maxim us (viii. 2. § 1),where the augurs are represented as ordering Clau­dius Centumalus to lower his lofty dwelling on theCaelian, because it interfered with their view fromthe Are,—a passage, by the way, which showsthat the anguries were taken from the Are tillat all events a late period of the Republic. Now,supposing with Becker, that the Are was on theNE. summit, what sort of prospect would theaugurs have had? It is evident that a large portionof their view would have been intercepted by thehuge temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. The SW.summit is the only portion of the hill which, in thewords of Livy, would afford a noble prospect, " inurbem agrumque." It was doubtless this point towhich the augur conducted Nnma, and which re­mained ever afterwards the place appointed for takingthe auguries. Preller is of opinion that Augustusremoved their, to a place called the Auguratoriumon the Palatine. (Philologut, i. p. 92.) But thesituation laid down for that building scarcely answersto our ideas of a place adapted for taking the au­guries, and it seems more probable that it was merelya place of assembly for the college of augurs. Another argument that has licen adduced infavour of the SW. summit being the Are, is drawnfrom its proximity to the river, and from its rockyand precipitous nature, which made it proper fur acitadel. But on this we are not inclined to lay anygreat stress. Other arguments in favour of the Italian viewmay be drawn from the nature of the templeitself; but in order to understand them it willfirst be necessary to give a description of thebuilding. The most complete account of the Tem-pLt'u Jovis CAriTousi is that given by Diony-sius (iv. 61), from which we learn that it stood upona high basis or platform, 8 plethra, or 800 Greekfeet square, which is nearly the same in Englishmeasure. This would give about 200 feet for eachside of the temple, for the length exceeded thebreadth only by about 15 feet. These are the di­mensions of the original construction ; and when itwas burnt down a generation befuro the time ofDionysius,— that is, as we learn from Tacitus (£fut.iii. 72), in the consulship of L. Scipio and Norbanus(n. c. 83),—it was rebuilt upon the same foundation.The materials employed in the second constructionwere, however, of a much richer description than thoseof the first. The front of the temple, icAicA faced thetouth, had a portico consisting of three rows of columns,whilst on the flanks it had only two rows : and aathe back front is not said to have had any portico, wemay conclude that there was nothing on this sidebut a plain wall. The interior contained three cells