OCR Output 38o THE DECLINE AND FALL in Media. The secret motive of Narses in this delay, had been tocollect such a military force, as might enable him, though sincerelydesirous of peace, to negociate with the greater weight anddignity. Three persons only assisted at this important conference,the minister Apharban, the præfect of the guards, and an officerwho had commanded on the Armenian frontier 76. The firstcondition proposed by the ambassador, is not at present of a veryintelligible nature; that the city of Nisibis might be establishedfor the place of mutual exchange, of,^as we should formerly havetermed it, for the staple of trade between the two empires. Thereis no difficulty in conceiving the intention of the Roman princes,to improve their revenue by some restraints upon commerce; butas Nisibis was situated within their own dominions, and as they weremasters both of the imports and exports, it mould seem, thatsuch restraints were the objects of an internal law rather than of aforeign treaty. To render them more effectual, some stipulationswere probably required on the fide of the king of Persia, whichappeared so very repugnant either to his interest or to his dignity, thatNarses could not be persuaded to subscribe them. As this was theonly article to which he refused his consent, it was no longer in­sisted on; and the emperors either suffered the trade to flow inits natural channels, or contented themselves with such restrictions,as it depended on their own authority to establish.ni articles of As soon as this difficulty was removed, a solemn peace was the treaty. t 1 concluded and ratified between the two nations. The conditions of*a treaty so glorious to the empire, and so necessary to Persia,,may deserve a more peculiar attention, as the history of Romepresents very few transactions of a si milar nature; most of her wars,having either been terminated by absolute conquest, or waged againstThe Aboras barbarians ignorant of the use of letters. I. The Aboras, or as itlimit between is called by Xenophon, the Araxes, was fixed as the boundarythe empires, between the two monarchies 11. That river which rises near theTigris, was increased a few miles below Nisibis, by the little stream of