OCR Output 440 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. no epigram on Homer or Phidias, but he had his childrenintroduced into the realms of intellect. Without neglectingtheir national education, so far as there was such, he madeprovision like the Greeks for the physical development ofhis boys, not indeed by gympastic exercises which wereaccording to Roman notions' inadmissible, but by instruc­tion in the chase which was among the Greeks developedalmost like an art; and he elevated their Greek instructionin such a way, that the language was no longer merelylearned and practised for the sake of speaking, but after theGreek fashion the whole subject-matter of general higherculture was associated with the language and developedout of it — embracing first of all the knowledge of Greekliterature with the mythological and historical informationnecessary for understanding it, and then rhetoric and phi­losophy. The library of king Perseus was the only portionof the Macedonian spoil that Paullus took for himself, withthe view of presenting it to his sons. Even Greek paintersand sculptors were found in his train and completedthe aesthetic training of his children. That the time waspast, when men could in this field preserve a merelynegative attitude as regarded Hellenism, had been felteven by Cato; the better classes had probably now a pre­sentiment, that the noble substance of Roman character wasless endangered by Hellenism as a whole than by Hellenismmutilated and misshapen: the mass of the upper society ofRome and Italy went along with the new mode. Therehad been for long no want of Greek schoolmasters in Rome;now they arrived in troops—and as teachers not merely ofthe language but of literature and culture in general—at thenewly-opened lucrative market for the sale of their wisdom.Greek tutors and teachers of philosophy, who, even if theywere not slaves, were as a rule accounted as servants,* werenow permanent inmates in the palaces of Rome; peoplespeculated in them, and there is a statement that 200,000sesterces (£2000) were paid for a Greek literary slave1 61. of the first rank. As early as 593 there existed in thecapital a number of special establishments for the prac-'tice of Greek declamation. Several distinguished names * Cicero says that he treated his learned slave Dionysius more respectfullythan Scipio treated Panaitius, and in the same sense it is said in Lucilius— Penula, si quaris, canteriu.', scrvu1, segestreVtilior mihi, quam sapiens.