OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS. 235 to the king and to the Romans, but en account of yourown wickedness, and this while 1 was besieged by the Romansin Jotapata. Nay, indeed, were there not reckoned up twothousand of the people of Tiberias during the siege of Jerusa­lem, some of which were slain, and the rest caught and cacried'captives ? But thou wilt pretend that thou didst not engage 'inthe War, since thou didst ilee to the king. Yes, indeed, thoudidst flee to him ; but I say it was out of fear of me. 'Thousayest, indeed, that it is I who am a wicked man. But then,for what reason was it that king Agrippa, who procured theeihy life when .thou wast condemned to die by Vespasian, and.who bestowed so muck riches upon thee, did twice afterward putthee into bonds, and as often obliged thee to run away from thycountry, and, when he had once ordered thee to be put to death,he granted thee a pardon at the earnest request of Bernice ? andwhen (after so many of thy wicked pranks) he had made theehis secretary, he caught thee falsifying his epistles, and drovethee away from his sight. But I shall not inquire accurately in­to these matters of scandal against thee. Yet cannot I but won-.der at thy impudence, when thou hast the assurance to say, thatthou hast better related these affairs [of the war] than have allhe others that have written about them, whilst thou didst not,know what was done in Galilee ; for thou wast -then at Bcrytuswith the king ; nor didst 'thou know how much the Romans sut-fered at the siege of Jotapata, or what miseries they brought up­on us ; nor couldst thou learn by inquiry what I did during thatsiege myself; for all those that might afford such informationwere quite destroyed in that siege. But perhaps thou wilt ?;ay,thou hast written of what was done against the people of Jerusa­lem exactly. But how should that be ? for neither wast thouconcerned in that war, nor hast thou read the commentaries ofCaesar ; of which we have evident proof, because thou hast con­tradicted those commentaries of Caesar in thy history. But ifthou art so hardy as to affirm, that thou hast written that historybstter than all the rest, why didst thou not publish thy historywhile the emperors Vespasian and Titus, the generals in thatwar, as well as king Agrippa and his family, who were men verywell skilled in the learning of the Greeks, were til alive ? forthou hast had at written these twenty years, and then mightestthou have had the testimony of thy accuracy. But now whenthese men are no longer with us, and thou thinkest thou canstnot be contradicted, thou venturest to publish it. But then I,was not in like manner afraid of my own writing, but I offeredany books to the emperors themselves, when the facts were al-'»ost under men's eyes ; for I was conscious to myself, that I had G g 2 observed