OCR Output KOMA. ROMA. 809 Befrta the basilica of Constantine and (ho Co-and consequently on the eastern side of theiji height, Hadrian built tbetplendid Temple of< i» AW Vis i s. commonly called at a later periodreplant I'rbia, considerable remains of which still1.4 behind the convent of & Francesca Romana. • t;* middle apes it was called Templum Cou­sins cl Pietatis (Uirabdia Rum. in F.ffemerid.atar. i. p. 385); the older topographers gave and Kardini was the first to de-it correctly. The remains exhibit the plantemple, or one having two cellae, thetribunes of which are joined togethertl to hack, so that one cclla faced the Capitol4 the other the Coloaseam; whence the descrip-■ of PrwdeMioa (Contra Sgmm. i. 214):— AbiM Urbis Venerisque pari se cnlmine tolluntTmpla. simul gemiuis adolentur tura deabus." * oeiia being the Colosseum is still visible, but'< tier is enclosed in the cloisters of S. Francttca.lawn were colossal statues of the goddesses in a Hadrian is related to have plannedhimself, and to have been so offendedu the frre-»pnken criticisms of the great archi-: ApaBodcnu upon it that be caused him to heI to death. (Dion Cass. lxix. 4.) Apollodorus isCad u hare particularly criticised the extrava-Iusees' the two goddesses, who he said were too * to ant their seats aad walk out of the temple,tl-T been so minded. The temple was of the • torhfaeaUy called ptendo-dipterat decattylot,t a, oaring only one row of ten columns, hut atu» distance from the cella as if there had been two rows. With its porticoes it occupied the wholespace between the Sacra Via and the street whichran past the front of the Basilica Constantini. Fora more detailed description of it see Nibby, FaroRomano, p. 209, seq., and Canina, Edijuj di Rama,classe ii. A ground plan, and elevations and sec­tions of it as restored, will be found in Burgess, An­tiquities and Topography of Rome, i. pp. 268,280.Servius (ad A en. ii. 227) speaks of snakes on thestatue of Roma similar to those on that of Minerva.From some coins of Antoninus Pius the temple appearsto have been restored by that emperor. Silver statueswere erected in it lo IL Aurelius and Faustina, aswell as an altar on which il was customary for bridesto offer sacrifice alter their marriage. (Dion Cass,lxxi. 31.) It was partly burnt down in the reignof Maxentius, but restored by that emperor. The Abch of Titus, to which from its conspi­cuous position we have so frequently had occasion toallude, stood close to the S\V. angle of this temple,spanning the Sacra Via at the very summit of theVclian ridge. Its beautiful reliefs, which are un­fortunately in a bad state of preservation, representthe Jewish triumphs of Titus. The arch could nothave been completed and dedicated till after thedeath of that emperor, since he is called Divus inthe inscription on the side of the Colosseum, whilsta relief in the middle of the vault represents hisapotheosis. It has undergone a good deal of resto­ration of a very indifferent kind, especially on theside which faces the forum. During the middleages it was called Septem Lucemae and ArcusSeptem Lucernarum, as we see from the Anony-mus. ArtCII OF TITUS ItESTOltEIl. here mention two other monumentsstrictly speaking they do not belongf*aiataar. ye* stand in snch close proximitykt be conveniently treated of inare the Arch of ConstantineThe former, which stands atteaer of the Palatine, and spans the roadi fas Hi & Gngorio, between that hillCarUan. ma erected, aa the inscriptionin sinisir of Constantino's victory overL It is> aatnmed with superb reliefs re-Trajan, taken apparentlymonument of that em-Thry contrast strangely with the tasteless and ill-executed sculptures belonging to the time ofConstantino himself, which are inserted at the lowerpart of the arch This monument is in a muchbetter state of preservation than the arch of Titusfa circumstance which may perhaps be ascribed tothe respect entertained for the memory of the firstChristian emperor. For detailed descriptions anddrawings of this arch see Niebuhr (Beschr. iii. p.314, seq.), Canina (Fdifizj Antichi, classe xii.),Overbeke (RrtUi de V An. Rome, ii. L 8, 9), I'ira-nesi (Ant. Rom. i.). The Met a SurtASS, so called from its resemblanceto the metae of the circus, was a fountain erectedby Domitian, remains of which are still to bo seen