OCR Output 226 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. with him pursuing Abner, when they came tothe place where Asahel lay, they stood roundabout the dead body, and left off the pursuitof the enemy. However, both Joab himself,*and his brother Abishai, ran past the corpse,and making their anger at the death of Asahelan occasion of greater zeal against Abner,they went on with incredible haste andalacrity, and pursued Abner, to a certainplace called Ammah; it was about sunset.Then did Joab ascend a certain hill, as hestood at that place, having the tribe of Ben­jamin with him, whence he took a view ofthem, and of Abner also. Hereupon Abnercried aloud, and said, that it was not fit thatthey should irritate men of the same nationto fight so bitterly one against another; thatas for Asahel his brother, he was himself inthe wrong when he would not be advised byhim not to pursue him any farther; whichwas the occasion of his death. So Joab con­sented to what he said, and accepted hiswords as an excuse about Asahel; andcalled his soldiers back with the sound ofthe trumpet, as a signal for their retreat,and thereby put a stop to any farther pur­suit. After which Joab pitched his campthere that night. But Abner marched allnight, and passed over the river Jordan, andcame to Ishbosheth, Saul's son, to Mahanaim.On the next day Joab counted the deadmen, and took care of all their funerals.Now there were slain of Abner's soldiersabout three hundred and sixty; but of thoseof David nineteen besides Asahel, whosebody Joab and Abishai carried to Bethle­hem. And when they had buried him inthe sepulchre of their fathers,f they came toDavid to Hebron. From this time, therefore,there began an intestine war, which lasteda great while; in which the followers ofDavid grew stronger, in the dangers theyunderwent, and the servants and subjects of Saul's sons did almost every day becomeweaker. About this time,t David was become thefather of six sons, born of as many mothers.The eldest was by Abinoam, and he wascalled Amnon; the second was Daniel, by hiswife Abigail; the name of the third was Ab­salom, by Maachah, the daughter of Talmai,king of Geshur; the fourth he named Ado­nijah, by his wife Haggith; the fifth was She-phatiah, by Abitail; and the sixth he calledIthream, by Eglah. Now while this intestinewar went on, and while the subjects of thetwo kings came frequently to action, it wasAbner, general of the host of Saul's son, whoby his prudence and the great interest hehad among the multitude, made them all con­tinue with Ishbosheth. And indeed it was aconsiderable time that they continued of hisparty. But afterwards|| Abner was blamed, andan accusation was laid against him, that hehad taken indecent liberties with Rispah,the daughter of Aiah, and Saul'3 concubine;§so when he was complained of by Ishboshethhe was very uneasy, and angry at it; becausehe had not justice done him by Ishbosheth,to whom he had shewn the greatest kind­ness. He therefore threatened that he wouldtransfer the kingdom to David, and demon­strated that he did not rule over the peoplebeyond Jordan by his own abilities andwisdom, but by his warlike conduct andfidelity, in leading his army. So he sentambassadors to Hebron, and desired thatDavid would give him security upon oath,that he would esteem him his companionand friend; upon condition that he shouldpersuade the people to leave Saul's son,and to choose him king of the whole country.And when David had made that leaguewith Abner; (for he was pleased with thismessage to him,) he desired that he would * It ought here to be noted, that Joab, Abishai, andAsahel, were all David's nephews, the sons of his sisterZeruiah, as 1 Chron. ii. 16. and that Amasa was also hisnephew, by his other sister Abigail, v. 17. t 2 Sam. ii. 32. t An. 1090. II An. 1089. § What notion the world, at this time, had of marryingany royal relirt, is evident from the case of Adonijah,whom Solomon put to death for desiring but to ask forAbisbag, one of David's concubines, though he had era- ployed Bath-sheba, the king's mother, to he his inter­cessor, and was himself his brother, 1 Kings ii. 17. Itmay be said perhaps, that Adonijah was at this time as­piring at the throne, which Solomon perceiving, tookoccasion from this his request, to fall out with him, andprevent it. But however this be, a general rule it was,not among the Jews only, but among other nations, thatno private person should presume to marry the king'swidow; for this made him appear as a rival and competitorfor the crown. Calmet'i Comment. B.