OCR Output A. D. 21.] or tacitus. 173 of Arden, but was intercepted by the legions detachedby Visellius and Caius Silius from the two armies onthe Rhine. A party of those troops was ordered for­ward under the command «f Julius Indus, a native ofTreves, who was 'then at variance with Florus, and,for that reason, burned with impatience to encounterhis enemy. He gave battle to the rebels, and overan ill-appointed and undisciplined multitude gaineda complete victory. Florus lay for some time con­cealed in lurking places; but at length, finding himselfunable to elude the search of the Roman soldiers, andseeing the defiles and passages guarded on everyside, he died by his own sword. The people of Treves,after this event, returned to their duty. XLIII. The jEduan commotions were not so easilyquelled. The state was rich and powerful, and theforce necessary to subdue the insurrection lay at aconsiderable distance. Sacrovir strained every nerveto support his cause. He seized the city of Augus-todunum, the capital of the .ffiduans, and took intohis custody the flower of the young nobility, who re­sorted thither from all parts of Gaul, as to a schoolof science and liberal education. By detaining thosepledges, he hoped to attach to his interest their parentsand relations. He supplied the young men witharms, which had been prepared with secrecy by hisdirections. His numbers amounted to less than forty,thousand, a fifth part of which were armed after themanner of the legions: the rest carried hunting-poles,knives, and other instruments of the chase. He had,besides, pressed into his service a body of slaves,reared up to the trade of gladiators, and, according tothe custom of the country, clad with an entire plateof iron. In the language of Gaul they were calledCrupellarians. Their armour was impenetrable tothe stroke of the enemy, but at the same time ren­dered the men too unwieldy for the attack. The ad­joining provinces had not taken up arms: but a num­ber of individuals caught the infection, and joined therebel army. Sacrovir gained a further advantagefrom the jealousies subsisting between the Roman ge­nerals. Each claimed to himself the conduct of the P 2 *