OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 519 Chap. IX.] The first of the Romans that conquered theJews was Cneius Pompeius, who entered the temple by rightof victory. Thence the report was every where divulged,that therein was no image of a god, but an empty place, andmysteries, most secret places that have nothing in them. Thewalls of Jerusalem were then destroyed, but the temple con­tinued still. Soon afterward arose a civil war among us;and when therein these provinces were reduced under MarcusAntonius, Pacorus, king of the Parthians, got possession ofJudea, but was himself slain by Paulus Ventidius, and theParthians were driven beyond Euphrates; and for the Jews,Caius Socius subdued them. Antonius gave the kingdom toHerod; and when Augustus conquered Antonius, ho stillaugmented it. After Herod's death, one Simon, without waiting for thedisposition of Cacsar, took upon him the title of King, who wasbrought to punishment by [or under] Quintilius Varus, whenhe was president of Syria. Afterward the nation was re­duced, and the children of Herod governed it in three par­titions. Under Tiberius the Jews had rest. After some time they jwere enjoined to place Caius Caesar's statue in the temple ;but rather than permit that, they took up arms;' which se­dition was put an end to by the death of Caesar. Claudius, after the kings were either dead or reduced tosmaller dominions, gave the province of Judea to Romanknights, or to freedmen, to be governed by them. Amongwhom was Antonius Felix, one that exercised all kind ofbarbarity and extravagance, as if he had royal authority, butwith the disposition of a slave. He had married Drusilla,the granddaughter of Antonius, so that Felix was the grand­daughter's husband, and Claudius the grandson of the sameAntonius. 1 They came to Petronius, the president of Syria, in vast numbers, butwithout arms, and as humble supplicants only. See Tacitus presently, where heafterwards sets this matter almost right, according to Josephus, and by wayof correction, for that account is in his annals, which were written after thiswhich is in his histories.