OCR Output 232 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. of legitimate wives: but the two last of con­cubines. And Tamar had the same motherwith Absalom. CHAP. IV. «t david's further success against the Philistines; HIS REMOVAL OF THE ARK TO JERUSALEM, AND HIS DE­SIRE TO BUILD A TEMPLE. WHEN the Philistines understood thatDavid was made king of the Hebrews,they made war against him at Jerusalem.And when they had seized upon that valleywhich is called The valley of the Giants; andfa a place not far from the city; they pitchedtheir camp there. But the king of the Jews,*who never permitted himself to do any thingwithout prophecy, and the command of God,and without depending on him as a securityfor the time to come, bade the high-priestforetell to him what was the will of God, andwhat would be the event of this battle. Andwhen he foretold that he should gain the vic­tory, and the dominion, he led out his armyagainst the Philistines; and when the battlewas joined, he came himself behind, and fellupon the enemy suddenly, and slew some ofthem, and put the rest to flight. And let noone suppose that it was a small army of thePhilistines that came against the Hebrews:as guessing so from the suddenness of theirdefeat, and from their having performed noaction that was worth recording, from theslowness of their march, and want of courage:but let him know, that all Syria and Phoenicia,with many other nations besides them, andthose warlike nations also, came to their as­sistance; and had a share in this war. Whichthing was the only cause why, when they hadbeen so often conquered, and had lost so manyten thousands of their men, they still cameupon the Hebrews with greater armies. Nay,indeed, when they had so often failed of theirpurpose in these battles, they came upon Da­vid with an army three times as numerous asbefore, and pitched their camp on the samespot of ground as before. The king of Israel therefore inquired of God again, concerningthe event of the battle; and the high-priestprophesied to him, that he should keep hisarmy in the groves, called the Groves ofWeeping, which were not far from the ene­mies' camp: and that he should not move,nor begin to fight till the trees of the groveshould be in motion without the winds blow­ing; but as soon as these trees moved, and thetime foretold to him by God was come, heshould, without delay, go out to gain whatwas already prepared, an evident victory.For the several ranks of the enemies' armydid not sustain him, but retreated at the firstonset, whom he closely followed, and slewthem as he went along and pursued them tothe city Gaza, which is the limit of theircountry. After ..this, he spoiled their camp,in Which he found great riches; and he alsodestroyed their gods. When this had proved the event of the bat­tle, David thought proper, upon a consultationwith the elders, and rulers, and captains ofthousands, to send for those that were in theflower of their age, out of all his countrymen,and out of the whole land; and withal for thepriests and the Levites: in order to their goingto Kirjathjearim, to bring up the ark of Godout of that city, and to carry it to Jerusalem,and there to keep it; and offer before itthose sacrifices, and those other honours, withwhich God used to be well pleased. For hadthey done thus in the reign of Saul, they hadnot undergone any great misfortunes at all.So when the whole body of the people werecome together, as they had resolved to do,the king came to the ark, which the priestsbrought out of the house of Aminadab, andlaid it upon a new cart, and permitted theirbrethren and children to draw it, together withthe oxen. Before it went the king, and thewhole multitude of the people with him, sing­ing hymns to God, and making use of all sortsof songs usual among them; accompaniedwith the sounds of musical instruments, andwith dancing and singing of psalms; as alsowith the sounds of trumpets and of cymbals: * It deserves here to be remarked, that Saul very rare­ly, and David very frequently, consulted God by Urim:and that David aimed always to depend, not on his ownprudence or abilities, but on the divine direction; con­trary to Saul's practice. See the note on III. 8. Andwhen Saul's daughter, Michal, laughed at David's dancing before the ark, 2 Sam. vi. 16, &c. it is probable shedid so, because her father S;ml did not use to paysuch regard to that ark; to the Urim there inquiredby; or to God's worship before it; and because shethought it beneath the dignity of a king to be so re­ligious.