OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 305 pose of the Macedonian war, the money which hadbeen lent for the Punic war, as one war constantlyarose after another, what would be the issue, but that,in return for their kind assistance to the public, theirproperty would be confiscated, as if they had beenguilty of some crime V The demands of the privatecreditors being equitable, and the state being in nocapacity of discharging the debt, they determined topursue a middle course between equity and conveni­ence; and accordingly they decreed, that 'whereasmany of them mentioned that lands were frequentlyexposed to sale, and that they themselves wished tobecome purchasers; they should therefore have libertyto purchase any belonging to the public, and which laywithin fifty miles of the city. That the consuls shouldmake a valuation of these, and impose on each acre aquit-rent of one as, as an acknowlegement that theland was the property of the public, in order that whenthe people should become able to pay, if any one choserather to have the money than the land, he might re­store it.' The private creditors accepted the termswith joy; and that land was called Trientius and Ta-bulius, because it was given in lieu of the third part oftheir money. 14. Publius Sulpicius, after making his vows in thecapitol, set out from the city in his robes of war, at­tended by his lictors, and arrived at Brundusium;where, having formed into legions the veteran soldiersof the African army who were willing to follow him,and chosen his number of ships out of the fleet of thelate consul, Cornelius, he set sail, and next day ar­rived in Macedonia. There he was met by ambassa­dors from the Athenians, intreating him to relievetheir city from the siege. Immediately Caius Clau­dius Centho was despatched to Athens, with twentyships of war and a small body of land forces: for itwas not the king himself who carried on the siege ofAthens; he was at that time intently occupied in be­sieging Abydus, after having tried his strength at seaagainst Attalus, and against the Rhodians, withoutliv. vol. v. v