OCR Output 846 HOMA. ROMA. inconvenient, from its great length, ami the metae,and spinae were in the way; whilst the latter,besides its moral unsuitableness for such a spectacle,became by decrees so crowded with monuments asto leave but little space fur the evolutions of thecombatants. The first temporary amphitheatre wasthe wonderful one built of wood by Caesar's par­tisan, C. Scribonius Curio. It consisted of twoseparate theatres, which, after dramatic entertain­ments had been given in them, were turned round,with their audiences, by means of hinges or pivots,and formed an amphitheatre (Plin. xxxvi. 24. s.8).Caesar liimself afterwards erected a wooden amphi­ theatre (Dion Cass, xliii. 22); but that of.Taurus was the first built of stow, andto be the only one down to the time of VWe have mentioned that it was in U*Marti us. It was dedicated in tbefoorthof Augustus, b.c. .10. (Dion Cast fi. 13;Aug. 29.) The amphitheatre erected bythe Campus Martius was a temporary oattf(Suet. Xrro, 12.) The amphitheatre ofwhich does not appear to hare been *erT~~(Dion Cass. lix. 10), was probably destnyiifire of Nero; at all events we bear w> mawafter that event. The AjuuusanuM COI-OSSKl'M. erected by Vespasian, appears to have been originallydesigned by Augustus. (Suet. Vttp. 9.) It stoodon the site previously occupied by the lake of Nero,between the Velia and the Esquiline. (Mart. Sped. 2. 5), and was capable of containing 87sons. (Notitia, Reg. iii.) A completeof this magnificent building will beDictionary of Antiyr/itits, and Deed not • a • . L . a-*-*"^ GltOUSD PLAN OF THE COLOSSECM. pe.itcd here. It was not completely finished tillthe reign of Domitian; though Titus dedicated itin the year 80. (Suet. Til. 7; Aur. Vict Caei.9. 7.) In tlie reign of Hacrinos it was so muchdamaged by a (ire, occasioned by lightning, that itwas necessary to exhibit the gladiatorts and retui-tinnts for several years in the .Stadium. (Dion Cass.Ixiviii. 25.) The restoration was undertaken by Elugabalus, and completed by AlexsaaaT(Lampr. JUL 17, Alex. 2«.) It tv&nicalamity under Decius (Hieron. CIbut the damage was again made good.tionet, or combats with wild beaats, 5in it as late as the 6th century. Iaages it was converted into a furtnas; lperiod a great part of it was de