OCR Output A L' tan us, proconsul of Asia, was accused of rapine andextortion by the people of the province. The conductof the cause was undertaken by Mamercus Scaurus,of consular rank ; by Junius Otho, at that time pravtor; and Brutidius Niger, one of the sediles. Thecomplaint was aggravated by an additional charge ofirreverence to the divinity of Augustus, and disaffec­tion to Tiberius. Mamercus affected to grace himselfby citing the bright examples of a former day; ScipioAfricanus, he observed, prosecuted Lucius Cotta;Cato, the censor, appeared against Servius Galba,an,d Marcus Scaurus, against Publius Rutilius; as ifthose great and excellent men had instituted prosecu­tions for constructive crimes like the present; as ifScaurus, the grandfather of the prosecutor, had de­scended to so vile an office. It was reserved for Ma­mercus, to degenerate into an informer, and tarnishthe lustre of his ancestors. Junius Otho, another pro­secutor, had been by profession the teaches of a school.Raised from that obscurity by the patronage of Seja-nus, he obtained a seat in the senate, and hoped byflagitious deeds to efface the meanness of his origin.Brutidius was a different character. Adorned withliberal accomplishments, and formed for great things,he was sure of reaching the first honours of the state,had he been willing to walk in the paths of virtue.His impatience ruined him. Eager to outstrip hisequals, and then to rise over his superiors, he enlargedhis views: and began to soar above his most flatteringhopes: but his ambition led him to the precipice fromwhich good men have often fallen, when, not contentwith slow, but sure success, they have hurried on withtoo much ardour, and ended their career in ruin. LXVII. Gellius Poplicola, who had been qurastorto Silanus, and Marcus Paconius, his lieutenant, listedon the side of the prosecution. Silanus, beyond alldoubt, was guilty both of rapine and oppression ; butin his case a number of circumstances, dangerouseven to innocence, conspired against him. Besidesthe persons already mentioned, the most able oratorsof Asia, men who were chosen on account of theireloquence, united their strength. Against that pow­