OCR Output 182 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK VI. Containing an Interval of Thirty-Two Year*. FROM THE DEATH OF ELI TO THE DEATH OF SAUL. CHAP. I. OF THE DESTRUCTION THAT CAME UPON THE PHILISTINES,BY THE WRATH OF GOD, ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR HAVINGCARRIED AWAY THE ARK; AND OF THE MANNER IN WHICHTHEY SENT IT BACK TO THE HEBREWS. WHEN the Philistines had taken the arkof the Hebrews, they carried it to thecity Ashdod, and put it by their own god, whowas called* Dagon, as one of their spoils.But when they went into the temple the nextmorning, to worship their idol, they found him f>aying the same worship to the ark, for heay prostrate, as having fallen down from thebasis whereon he had stood. So they took himup, and set him on his basis again, and weremuch troubled at what had happened. Andas they frequently came to Dagon, and foundhim still lying along in a posture of adorationto the ark, they were in very great distressand confusion. At length God sent a verydestructive disease upon the city and countryof Ashdod; for they died of the dysentery, asore distemper, that brought death upon themvery suddenly; for before they could, as usualin easy deaths, be well loosed from the body,they brought up their entrails, and vomitedup what they had eaten, and what was en­tirely corrupted by the disease. And as tothe fruits of their country, a great multitudeof mice arose out of the earth and hurt them;and spared neither the plants, nor the fruits.Now while the people of Ashdod were underthese misfortunes, and were not able to sup­port themselves under their calamities, they * Dagon, a famous god or idol, is generally supposed to perceived that they suffered thus because ofthe ark; and that the victory they had gotten,and their having taken the ark captive, hadnot happened for their good. They there­fore sent to the people of Ascalon, and de­sired that they would receive the ark amongthem. This desire was not disagreeable tothose of Ascalon; so they readily granted it;but when they had gotten the ark, they werein the same miserable condition; for the arkcarried along with it the disasters that thepeople of Ashdod had suffered, to those whoreceived it from them. Those of Ascalonalso sent it away to others; %vho, being pur­sued by the same disasters, again sent it tothe neighbouring cities. So that the ark wentround, after this manner, to the five cities ofthe Philistines; as though it exacted thesedisasters as a tribute for its coming amongthem. When those that had experienced thesemiseries were tired out with them, and whenthose that heard of them were taught therebynot to admit the ark among them, since theypaid so dear a tribute for it; at length theysought for some contrivance how they mightget free from it. So the governors of the fivecities, Gath, Ekron, Ascalon, Gaza, andAshdod, met together, and considered whatwas fit to be done. And at the first theythought proper to send the ark back to itsown people; as allowing that God hadavenged its cause, that the miseries they hadundergone came along with it, and that thosewere sent on their cities upon its account, have been like a man about the navel, and like a fish beneath it.