OCR Output 424 WARS OF THE JEWS, Book II. thousand of them lay dead upon heaps ; nor had the remainderbeen preserved,had they not betaken themselves to supplication.So Alexander commiserated their condition, and gave orders tothe Romans to retire: accordingly, these being accustomed toobey orders, left off killing at the first intimation ; but the po­pulace of Alexandria bare so very great hatred to the Jews, thatit was difficult to recal them, and it was an hard thing to makethem leave their dead bodies. 0. And this was the miserable calamity which at this timebefel the Jews at Alexandria. Hereupon Cestius thought fit nolonger to lie still, while the Jews were every where up in arms;so he lookout of Antioch the twelfth legion entire, and out of eachof the rest he selected two thousand, with six cohorts of footmen,and four troops of horsemen,besides those auxiliaries which weresent by the kings; of which* Antiochus sent two thousand horse­men, and three thousand footmen, with as many archers ; andAgrippa sent the same number of footmen, and one thousandhorsemen ; Sohemus also followed with four thousand, a thirdpart whereof were horsemen, but most part were archers, andthus did he march to Ptolemais. There were also great num­bers of auxiliaries gathered together from the [free] cities, whoindeed had not the sameskillin martial affairs,but madeupin theiralacrity,andin their hatred to the Jews what they wanted in skill.There came also along with Cestius, Agrippa himself, both as aguide in his march of the country, and a director what was fit tobe done; so Cestius took part of his forces, and marched hastilyto Zabulon, a strong city of Galilee, which was called the cityof men, and divides the country of Ptolemais from our nation:this he found deserted by its men, the multitude having fled tothe mountains, but full of all sorts of good things j those he gaveleave to the soldiers to plunder, and set fire to the city, althoughit was of admirable beauty, and had its houses built like those inTyre, and Sidon, and Berytus. After this he over-ran all thecountry, and seized upon whatsoever came in his way, and setfire to the villages that were round about them, and then return­ed to Ptolemais. But when the Syrians, and especially those ofBerytus, were busy in plundering, the Jews pulled up their cou­rage again, for they knew that Cestius was retired, and fell uponthose that were left behind unexpectedly, and destroyed abouttwo thousand of them. 10. And now Cestiushimself marched from Ptolemais and cameto Cesarea; but he sent part of his army before him to Joppa, and * Spanheim notes on the place, that this later Antiochui, who wai called Efi-ptamei, is mentioned by Dio, LIX. page 645. and that he is mentioned by Josi phus-elsewhere twice al»o, B. V. ch' xi. § 3. vol. 111. and Aatiq. B, XIX, cb, tiii. $ itvol III.