OCR Output ,-,?G MYONNESUS. MYNDUS. anecdote preserved in Athenaens (viii. p. 348) of thewitty musician Stratonicus, who, on coming toMylassa, and observing its many temples, but fewinliabitants, placed himself in the middle of themarket-place, and exclaimed, "Hear me, oh yetemples." As to the history of this city, we knowthat Philip of Macedonia, the son of Demetrius, en­deavoured in vain to obtain possession of it; and itwas probably to reward the place fur its oppositionto him that the Romans, after the war with Anli-ochus, declared its citizens free (Polyb. xvi. 24, xxii.27; l.iv. xxxviii. 39). In a petty war with theneighbouring Euromians, the Mylassans were vic­torious, and took some of their towns; but wereafterwards compelled to submit to the Khodians(Polyb. xxx. 5; l.iv. xlv. 25.) In the time of Strabo,the town appears to have been still flourishing, andtwo eminent orators, Euthydcmus and Hybreas,exercised considerable influence over their fellow-citizens. Hybreas, however, incurred the enmity ofLabienus, his political adversary, whose pretensionslie tried to resist. But he was obliged to take refugein Rhodes; whereupon Labienus marched with anarmy against Mylassa, and did great damage to thetown. (Strab.xiv.p.660.) It i.s mentioned, however,as late as the time of Hierocles (p. 088). It is ge­nerally admitted that the site of the ancient Mylassais marked by the modern ilelasso or Melassa, whereconsiderable ancient remains have been observed bytravellers. A temple, erected by the people of My­lassa in honour of Augustus and Roma, considerablernins of which had existed until modern times, wasdestroyed about the middle of last century by theTurks, who built a new mosirae with the materials(I'ococke, Trnvtlt, torn. ii. p. 2. e. 6.) Chandler(Asia Minor, p. 234) saw beneath the hill, on theeast side of the town, an arch or gateway of marble,ot the Corinthian order; a broad marble pavement,with vestiges of a theatre; and round the town rangesof columns, the remains of porticoes. (Camp. Leake,Asia Minor, p. 230; Kellows, Journal of an Exc.p. 2G0, Itiscortries in Lyciu, p. 67, who saw manyancient remains scattered about the place; Rasche,La. A'um. iii. 1. p. 999, &c.) [L. S.] COIN" OF MYLASSA. MYNDUS (MSrtot: Flh. Mvttiot), a Doriancolony of Troezcn, on the coast of Caria, situated onthe northernmost of the three Dorian peninsulas, afew miles to the northwest of Halicamassus. It wasjirotected by strong walls, and had a pond harbonr.(Paus. ii. 30. § S; Strab. xiv. p. 658; Arrian, Anab.i. 20, ii. 5 ) But otherwise the place is not ofmuch importance in ancient history. Both Pliny(v. 29) and Stephanus Byz. (i. r.) mention Palae-lnyndus as a place close by Myndus; and this Pa-laemyndus seems to have been the ancient place ofthe Carians which became deserted after the esta­blishment of the Dorian Myndus. (Comp. Strah. xiii.p. (ill.) Mela (i. 16) and Pliny (ic.) also speakof a place called Neapolis in the same peninsula; andas no other authors mention Mich a place in thatjiart of the country, It has been supposed thatMyndus (the Dorian colony) and Neapolis were the same place. But it ong'nt to be remembered thaiPliny mentions both Myndus and Neapolis m twodifferent towns. Myndian ships are mentioned athe expedition of Anaxagoras against Naxoa. (Herod,v. 33.) At a later time, when Alexander hMefrdHalicamassus, he was anxious first to make hrrorh*master of Myndus; but when he attempted to takeit by surprise, the Myndians, with the awl of rein­forcements from HalicamassuB repulsed him withsome loss. (Arrian, /. c.; comp. Hecat. Frtigm. 229:Polyb. xvi. 15, 21; Scylax, p. 38; PtoL t. 2. $ »;Liv. xxxvii. 15; Hierocl. p. 687.) Athenaeos (L 32)states that the wine grown in the district of Mrnduwas good for digestion. It is generally believed thatMmtesha or Mnntrsha marks the site of Myndni;but Col. Leake (Asia Minor, p. 228) identifies;Myndus with the small sheltered port of (TasassUa,where Captain Beaufort remarked the remains of aaancient pier at the entrance of the port, and somaruins at the head of the bay. (Comp. Raaehe, la.Sum. iii. 1. p. 1002, 4c; Eckhel, Doetr. AVaa,vol. ii. pt. i. p. 585.) Ptolemy (v. 2. § 30) mentions a small island caDedMyndus in the Icarian Sea. [L. S.] com OK MYKDl'S. MYO'NIA or MYON (Mooria, Pans. ; M/wr.Steph. B.: Elk. Mbbhi'i, Paus., Time), a town «fthe Loeri Ozolae, situated on the moat difficult ofthe passes leading from Aetolia into Loeria. (That.iii. 101.) Pausanias describes it aa a small town(iroAnriu), situated upon a hill 30 stadia from An-phissa inland, containing a grove and an altar of teegods called Meilichii, and above the town a temptedPoseidon. (Paus. x. 38. § 8. comp. ri. 19. § 4.)Leake (Northern (treecr, vol. ii. p. 5*9) and otherauthorities place Myonia at Aghia 7aymai, or Atkf.mia, a small village, containing Hellenic remains.distant 11 hour from Sihma (Amphisas) on the roadto Galaxldhi on the coast; but this cannot be cor­rect, as. according to the passage in Pausaniaa, Hy-onia lay further inland than Ampbiasa. (~A«w a»>£»#» 'Au<pl<ront irpAs tfw*ipor Minna . . . Ot-rai (in­cluding the Mvovtli) fiir 81) frrrooiaotVir 'A*d*r-m)i, *rl daAdVo-jji ii OidVflno). AcrnKBearryKiepert places Myonia in his map N. of Am; hi—, amthe road from the latter place to Cytinium in Pari*. M Y< IN'NE'SI'S (MuoVrnffoi or MvoVnowt), a pr*>fnontorv on the south-west of Lebedn*. on the raaatof Ionia, at the northern extremity of the hay rfKphesns. It is celebrated in history for the nivalvictory there gained by the Romans under I_ Aemi-lius over Antiochns the Great, in B.c. 190. (5l*ftV.B. a. a.; Strab. xiv. p. 643 ; Thin yd. iii. 41 ; Lit.xxxvii. 27.) Livy describes the promontory as orto-ated between Samoa and Teas, and as hong from abroad basis to a pointed summit. There waa aaapproach to it on the land side by a narrow path;while on the sea side it was girl by rocks, so mathworn by the wares, that in some parts thehanging cliffs extended further into the tea than iships stationed under them. On thbthere also was a small town of the name of )t<