OCR Output 5a4 THE DECLINE AND FALL of Athens or Carthage. Every Christian rejected with contempt thesuperstitions of his family, his city, and his province. The wholebody of Christians unanimously refused to hold any communion withthe gods of Rome, of the empire, and of mankind. It was in vain■ that the oppressed believer asserted the inalienable rights of con­science and private judgment. Though his situation might excitethe pity, his arguments could never reach the understanding, eitherof the philosophic or of the believing part of the Pagan world.To their apprehensions, it was no less a matter of surprise, that anyindividuals should entertain scruples against complying with theestablished mode of worship, than if they had conceived a suddenabhorrence to the manners, the dress, or the language of their na­tive country 8. Christianity The surprise of the Pagans was soon succeeded by resentment;atheism, and and the most pious of men were exposed to the unjust but danger-Jhestpfopiey ous imputation of impiety. Malice and prejudice concurred insophers'10" representing the Christians as a society of atheists, who, by the mostdaring attack on the religious constitution of the empire, had me­rited the severest animadversion of the civil magistrate. They hadseparated themselves (they gloried in the confession) from everymode of superstition which had been adopted in any part of theglobe by the various temper of polytheism: but it was not altogetherso evident what deity, or what form of worship they had substitutedto the gods and temples of antiquity. The pure and sublime ideawhich they entertained of the Supreme Being escaped the grossconception of the Pagan multitude, who were at a loss to discovera spiritual and solitary God, that was neither represented under anycorporeal figure or visible symbol, nor was adored with the accus­tomed pomp of libations and festivals, of altars and sacrifices '. Thesages of Greece and Rome, who had elevated their minds to thecontemplation of the existence and attributes of the First Cause, wereinduced by reason or by vanity to reserve for themselves and theirchosen disciples the privilege of this philosophical devotion ,0. They were i