OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. were seated on the right hand of God; but the gracious, and often supernatural fa­vours, which in the popular belief were showered round their tomb, conveyed anunquestionable sanction of the devout pilgrims, who visited, and touched, andkissed these lifeless remains, the memorials of their merits and sufferings. (1) Buta memorial, more interesting than the skull or the scandals of a departed worthy,is a faithful copy of his person and features, delineated by the arts of painting orsculpture. In every age, such copies, so congenial to human feelings, have beencherished by the zeal of private Iriendship, or public esteem: the images of theRoman emperors were adored with civil and almost religious honours; a reverenceless ostentatious, but more sincere, was applied to the statues of sages and patriots;and these profane virtues, these splendid sins, disappeared in the presence of theholy men, who had died for their celestial and everlasting country. At first theexperiment was made with caution and scruple; and the venerable pictures werediscreetly allowed to instruct the ignorant, to awaken the cold, and to gratify theprejudices of the heathen proselytes. By a slow though inevitable progression,the honours of the original were transferred to the copy: the devout Christianprayed before the image of a saint: and the pagan rites of genuflexion, luminaries,and incense, again stole into the catholic church. The scruples of reason or piety,were silenced by the strong evidence of visions and miracles; and the pictures whichspeak, and move, and bleed, must be endowed with a divine energy, and may beconsidered as the proper objects of religious adoration. The most audacious pencilmight tremble in the rash attempt of defining, by forms and colours, the infinite Spi­rit of the eternal Father, who pervades and sustains the universe.(2) But the super­stitious mind was more easily reconciled to paint and to worship the angels, and,above all, the Son of God, under the human shape, which, on earth, they have con­descended to assume. The second person of the Trinity had been clothed with areal and mortal body; but that body had ascended into heaven, and, had not some si­militude been presented to the eyes of his disciples, the spiritual worship of Christmight have been obliterated by the visible relics and representations of the saints. Asimilar indulgence was requisite, and propitious, for the Virgin Mary: the place ofher burial was unknown; and the assumption of her soul and body into heaven wasadopted by the credulity of the Greeks and Latins. The use, and even the wor­ship of images, was firmly established before the end of the sixth century; theywere fondly cherished by the warm imagination of the Greeks and Asiatics; thePantheon and Vatican were adorned with the emblems of a new superstition; butthis semblance of idolatry was more coldly entertained by the rude, barbarians andthe Arian clergy of the west. The bolder forms of sculpture, in brass or marble,which peopled the temples of antiquity, were offensive to the fancy or conscienceof the Christian Greeks; and a smooth surface of colours has ever been-esteemeda more decent and harmless mode of imitation. (S) The merit and effect of a copy depend on its resemblance with the original; butthe primitive Christians were ignorant of the genuine features of the Son of God,his mother and his apostles: the statue of Christ at Paneas in Palestine(4) was moreprobably that of some temporal saviour; the Gnostics and their profane monuments,were reprobated; and the fancy of the Christian artists could only be guided by theclandestine imitation of some heathen model. In this distress, a bold and dexterousinvention assured at once the likeness of the image and the innocence of the wor­ship. A new superstructure of fable was raised on the popular basis of a Syrianlegend, on the correspondence of Christ and Abgarus, so famous in the days ofEusebius, so reluctantly deserted by our modern advocates. The bishop of (t) See ibis history, vol. ii. p. 4S0. vol. iii. p. 147. 478—487.) (3) Ou yoq to ©itov u;rXouv xcet te^jiToi/ uipcjxi, tinwi T-xjfiuvriv ces-.ucx^ou: vi. Our; joipw Jt*» JjuA-aif rnv uwipavrtavx»» nyitmxpys"1 ov<r*xv n/xav ilms SuyvMapuv. (Concilium Nicenum, ii. in Collect. Labb. torn. viii. p. 1025. edit.Venet.) II seroit pentetre a-propos de ne point souflVir d'images de la Trinite ou de la Divinite; les defensenrsles plus 7-elei del images ayant condamne celles ci, et le conciie de Trente ne parlant que des images de JesusChrist et des saints. (Dupin. Bibliot. Eceles. torn. vi. p. 1S4.) (3) This general history of images is drawn from the twenty-second book of the Hist, des Ea:lise Reforroeesof Basnage, torn. ii. p. 1310—1337. He was a protestant, but of a manly spirit; and on this bead the protestantsare so notoriously in the right, that they can venture to be impartial.) See the perplexity of poor Friar l'agi,Critica. torn. i. p. 42. (4) After removing some rubbish of miracle and inconsistency, it may be allowed, that as late as the year360, Paneas in Palestine was decorated with a bronze statue, representing a grave personage wrapt in a cloak,with a grateful or suppliant female kneeling before him;—and that an inscription—to» Zmrt-p* tu> £u£py£T>r,—wasperhaps inscribed on the pedestal. By the Christians, this groupe was foolishly explained of their founder andthe poor woman whom he had cured of the bloody-flux. (Euseb. vii. 18. Philostorg. 7. 3, &c.) M. de Reau-eoure more reasonably conjectures the philosopher Apollonius, or the emperor Vespasian: in the latter suppo­sition, the female is a city, a province, or perhaps the queen Berenice. (Bibtiotheque G.ermanique, torn,. siji, I—P2.)