OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 527 They that built this city foresaw that, from the differenceof their conduct of life from their neighbors, they should havefrequent wars; thence it came to pass that they had provi­sions for a long siege. After Pompey's conquest also, theirfear and experience had taught them generally what theyshould want.1 Moreover, the covetous temper that prevailed under Clau­dius gave the Jews an opportunity of purchasing for moneyleave2 to fortify Jerusalem; so they built walls in time ofpeace, as if they were going to war, they being augmentedin number by those rude multitudes of people that retiredthither on the ruin of the other cities ; for every obstinatefellow ran away thither, and there became more seditious thanbefore. There were three captains, and as many armies. Simonhad the remotest and largest parts of the walls under him.John, who was also called Bar Gioras [the son of Gioras,]had the middle parts of the city under him : and Eleazar hadfortified the temple itself. John and Simon were superior inmultitude and strength of arms, Eleazar was superior by hissituation; but battles, factions and burnings were common tothem all; and a great quantity of corn was consumed by fire.After awhile John sent some who, under the pretence of offer­ing sacrifice, might slay Eleazar and his body of troops, whichthey did, and got the temple under their power. So the citjnow was parted into two factions, until, upon the coming ofthe Romans, this war abroad produced peace between thes-that were at home. 1 This is Tacitus's or the Romans' own hypothesis, unsupported by Jose-phus. 2 This sale of leave for the Jews to build the walls of Jerusalem for moneyis also Tacitus's or the Romans' own hypothesis, unsupported by Josephus.Nor is Joscphus's character of Claudius near so bad, as to other things also,as it is in Tacitus and Suetonius. Dio says he was far from covetousness inparticular. The others seem to have misrepresented his meek and quiettemper and learning, but without ambition, and his great kindness to theJews, as the most contemptible folly. See Antiq. b. xix. ch. iv. sect. 4. Hewas, indeed, much ruled at first by a very bad minister, Pallas; and at lastwas ruled and poisoned by a very bad wife, Agrippina.