OCR Output Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE Jtws. 287 the Freemen, with Herod, and conducted Phasaelus with therest. 4. But now, when they were come to Galilee, they found thatthe people of that country had revolted, and were in arms, whocame very cunningly to their leader, and besought him to concealhis treacherous intentions by an obliging behaviour to thetn;accordingly, he at first made them presents, and afterward, as theywent away, laid ambushes for them ; and, when they were cometo one of the maritime cities called Ecdippon, they perceived thata. plot was laid for them ; for they were there informed of thspromise of a thousand talents, and how Antigonus had devoted thegreatest number of the women that were there with them, amongthe five hundred, to the Parthians ; they also perceived that anambush was always laid for them by the barbarians in the night­time ; they had also been seized on before this, unless they hadwaited for the seizure of Herod first at Jerusalem, because, if hewere once informed of this treachery of theirs, he would take careof himself; nor was this a mere report, but they saw the guardsalready not far off them. 5. Nor would Phasaelus think of forsaking Hyrcanus andflying away, although Ophellius earnestly persuaded him to it;for this man had learned the whole scheme of the plot from Sa-ramalla, the richest of all the Syrians. But Phasaelus went upto the Parthian governor, and reproached him to his face, forlaying this treacherous plot against thetn, and chiefly because hehad done it for money ; and he promised him, that he wouldgive him more money for their preservation, than Antigonus hadpromised to give for the kingdom. But the sly Parthian endea­voured to remove all this suspicion by apologies and by oaths,and then went [to the other] Pacorus; immediately after which,those Parthians who were left, and had it in charge, seized uponPhasaelus and Hyrcanus, who could do no more than curse theirperfidiousness and their perjury. 6. In the mean time the cup-bearer was sent [back], and laida plot how to seize upon Herod, by deluding him, and gettinghim out of the city, as he was commanded to do. But Herod sus­pected the barbarians from the beginning, and having then re­ceived intelligence that a messenger, who was to bring him theletters that informed him of the treachery intended, had fallenamong the enemy, he would not go out of the city ; though Pa­corus said very positively, that he ought to go out, and meet themessengers that brought the letters, for that the enemy had notthem, and that the contents of them were not accounts of anyplots upon them, but of what Phasaelus had done ; yet had he heard