OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 7 a rebellious, or at least an ignorant spirit. The Son ofGod descended upon earth to abolish his temple andhis law; and, for the accomplishment of this salutaryend, he dexterously transferred to his own person thehope and prediction of a temporal Messiah.His incor- ^ne of tue most subtle disputants of the Ma-mptibie nichaean school, has pressed the danger and in­decency of supposing, that the God of the Chris­tians, in the state of a human foetus, emerged at the endof nine months from a female womb. The pious hor­ror of his antagonists provoked them to disclaim all sen­sual circumstances of conception and delivery; to main­tain, that the divinity passed through Mary like a sun­beam through a plate of glass, and to assert, that theseal of her virginity remained unbroken even at the mo­ment when she became the mother of Christ. But therashness of these concessions has encouraged a mildersentiment of those of the Docetes, who taught, not thatChrist was a phantom, but that he was clothed with animpassible and incorruptible body. Such, indeed, inthe more orthodox system he has acquired since his re­surrection, and such he must have always possessed, ifit were capable of pervading, without resistance orinjury,the density of intermediate matter. Devoid of its mostessential properties, it might be exempt from the attri­butes and infirmities of the flesh. A foetus, that couldincrease from an invisible point to its full maturity; achild, that could attain the stature of perfect manhood,without deriving any nourishment from the ordinarysources, might continue to exist without repairing a dailywaste by a daily supply of external matter. Jesus mightshare the repasts of his disciples without being subjectto the calls of thirst or hunger; and his virgin puritywas never sullied by the involuntary stains of sensualconcupiscence. Of a body thus singularly constituted,a question would arise, by what means, and of what ma­terials, it was originally framed; and our sounder theo­logy is started by an answer which was not peculiar to