OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL money. The subjects of Justinian who escaped these partial vexations, were op­pressed by the irregular maintenance of the soldiers whom Alexander defraudedand despised; and their hasty sallies, in quest of wealth or subsistence, provoked "the inhabitants of the country to await or implore their deliverance from the vir­tues of a barbarian. Totila(l) was chaste and temperate; and none were deceived,either friends or enemies, who depended on his faith or his clemency. To thehusbandmen of Italy the Gothic king issued a welcome proclamation, enjoiningthem to pursue their important labours, and to rest assured, that, on the paymentof the ordinary taxes, they should be defended by his valour and discipline fromthe injuries of war. The strong towns he successively attacked; and as soon asthey had yielded to his arms, he demolished the fortifications; to save the peoplefrom the calamities of a future siege, to deprive the Romans of the arts of defence,and to decide the tedious quarrel of the two nations, by an equal and honourableconflict in the field of battle. The Roman captives and deserters were tempted toenlist in the service of a liberal and courteous adversary; the slaves were attractedby the firm and faithful promise, that they should never be delivered to their mas­ters; and from the thousand warriors of Pavia, a new people, under the same ap­pellation of Goths, was insensibly formed in the camp of 1 otila. He sincerely ac­complished the articles of capitulation, without seeking or accepting any sinisteradvantage from ambiguous expressions or unforeseen events: the garrison of Napleshad stipulated, that they should be transported by sea; the obstinacy of the windsprevented their voyage, but they were1 generously supplied with horses, provisions,and a safe conduct to the gates of Rome. The wives of the senators, who hadbeen surprised in the villas of Campania, were restored, without a ransom, to theirhusbands; the violation of female chastity was inexorably chastised with death;and, in the salutary regulation of the diet of the famished Neapolitans, the con­queror assumed the office of a humane and attentive physician. The virtues ofTotila are equally laudable, whether they proceeded from true policy, religiousprinciple, or the instinct of humanity: he often harangued his troops; and it washis constant theme, that national vice and ruin are inseparably connected: that vic­tory is the fruit of moral as well as military virtue; and that the prince, and eventhe people are responsible for the crimes which they neglect to punish. The return of Belisarius, to save the country which he had subdued, was pressedwith equal vehemence by his friends and enemies; and the Gothic war was im­posed as a trust or an exile on the veteran commander. A hero on the banks ofthe Euphrates, a slave in the palace of Constantinople, he accepted, with reluc­tance, the painful task of supporting his own reputation, and retrieving the faultsof his successors. The sea was open to the Romans: the ships and soldiers wereassembled at Salona, near the palace of Diocletian: he refreshed and reviewed histroops at Pola in Istria, coasted round the head of the Hadriatic, entered the portof Ravenna, and despatched orders rather than supplies to the subordinate cities.His first public oration was addressed to the Goths and Romans in the name of theemperor, who had suspended for awhile the conquest of Persia, and listened to theprayers of his Italian subjects. He gently touched on the causes and the authorsof the recent disasters; striving to remove the fear of punishment for the past, andthe hope of impunity for the future, and labouring, with more zeal than success,to unite all the members of his government in a firm league of affection and obe­dience. _ Justinian, his gracious master, was inclined to pardon and reward; and itwas their interest, as well as duty, to reclaim their deluded brethren, who hadbeen seduced by the arts of the usurper. Not a man was tempted to desert thestandard of the Gothic king. Belisarius soon discovered, that he was sent to re­main the idle and impotent spectator of the glory of a young barbarian; and hisown epistle exhibits a genuine and lively picture of the distress of a noble mind.—"Most excellent prince; we are arrived in Italy, destitute of all the necessary im­plements of war, men, horses, arms, and money. In our late circuit through thevillages of Thrace and Illyrfcum, we have collected, with extreme difficulty, aboutfour thousand recruits, naked, and unskilled in the use of weapons and the exer­cises of the camp. The soldiers already stationed in the province are discontented,fearful, and dismayed; at the sound of an enemy, they dismiss their horses, andcast their arms on the ground. No taxes can be raised, since Italy is in the handsof the barbarians; the failure of payment has deprived us of the right of command, . (1) Procopins (lib. iii. e. 3.8, &c.) does ample and willing justice to the merit of Totila. The Raman histo­rian!, from Sallustand Tacitui, were happy to forget the rices of their countrymen in the contemplation of