OCR Output CHAP. LI. 423 Arabia; and a string of camels, laden with corn andprovisions, covered almost without an interval the longroad from Memphis to Medina.1 But the genius ofAmrou soon renewed the maritime communication whichhad been attempted or achieved by the Pharaohs, thePtolemies, or the Caesars; and a canal, at least eightymiles in length, was opened from the Nile to the Redsea. This inland navigation, which would have joinedthe Mediterranean and the Indian ocean, was soon dis­continued as useless and dangerous: the throne wasremoved from Medina to Damascus; and the Grecianfleets might have explored a passage to the holy cities ofArabia."1 Hichesand Of ^s new conquest the caliph Omar had anpopulous- imperfect knowledge from the voice of fame andthe legends of the Koran. He requested thathis lieutenant would place before his eyes the realm ofPharaoh and the Amalekites; and the answer of Amrouexhibits a lively and not unfaithful picture of that sin­gular country." 0 commander of (he faithful, Egypt isa compound of black earth and green plants, between apulverized mountain and a red sand. The distance fromSyene to the sea is a month's journey for a horseman.Along the valley descends a river, on which the blessingof the Most High reposes both in the evening and morn­ing, and which rises and falls with the revolutions ofthe sun and moon. When the annual dispensation ofProvidence unlocks the springs and fountains that nourishthe earth, the Nile rolls his swelling and sounding waters 1 Eutychius, Anna), torn. 2. p. 320. Elmacin, Hist. Saraocn, p. 35. • On these obscure canals, the reader may try to satisfy himself from d'Anville,(Mern. sur 1'Egypte, p. 108—110.124.132.) and a learned thesis maintained andprinted at Strashurg in the year 1770. (Jungendorum marium fluviorumque moli-mina, p. 39—47. 68—70.) Even the supine Turks have agitated the old projectof joining the two fleas. (Memoires de Baron de Tott, torn. 4.) "A small volume, des Merveilles, &c. de 1'Egypte, composed in the thirteenthcentury by Murtadi of Cairo, and translated from an Arabic MS. of cardinal Maza-rin, was published by Pierre Vatier, Paris, 1666. The antiquities of Egypt arewild and legendary: but the writer deserves credit and esteem for his account ofthe conquest and geography of his native country. (See the correspondence ofArarou and Omar, p. 279—289.)