OCR Output A. D. 16.] or tacitus. 79 * who chastised the treachery of the barbarians, andlaid the country waste with fire and sword. IX. The Visnrgis flowed between the Romans andCheruscans. On the opposite bank Arminius pre足sented himself. He was attended by the principalGerman chiefs. His business was to know whetherGermanicus was with the army? being answered inthe affirmative, he desired an interview with his bro足ther, known to the Romans by the name of Flavius;a man of strict fidelity, who some years before, underthe conduct of Tiberius, lost an eye in battle. Themeeting was permitted. Flavius advanced to themargin of the river. Arminius, from the oppositeside, saluted him; and having ordered his guards tofall back, required that the Roman archers shouldwithdraw in like manner. The two brothers beingleft to themselves, Arminius fixed his eye on Flavius;and, Whence, he said, that deformity of feature ? Hewas told the battle and the place where it happened.And what, continued Arminius, has been your recom足pense ? I have received, said Flavius, an augmenta足tion of pay, a military chain, an ornamented crown,and other honours. Arminius burst into a laugh ofscorn and indignation. " They are the wages," hesaid, " of a slave cheaply purchased." X. A warm altercation followed. Flavius talkedof the majesty of Rome, the power of the Csesars,the weight with which their vengeance falls on theobstinate, and their clemency to the nations willingto submit. He added, "Your wife and son are in the" hands of Rome, and neither of them has been" treated like a captive." Arminius, on the contrary,urged the rights of men born in freedom, the lawsof his country, the plan of ancient liberty, and thegods of Germany. " Your mother," he said, "joins"with me in earnest supplication; we both conjure"you not to desert your family; not to betray your* friends, nor prefer the detested name of a traitor, to" the vast renown of commanding armies in the de-" fence of your country." By degrees their passionsrose to a pitch of fury, insomuch that the river couldnot have restrained them from deciding their quarrel