OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 113 "sonable superstition." This is what Agathafchides relates ofour nation. But when Ptolemy had taken a great many cap-*tives, both from the mountainous parts of Judea, and from theplaces about Jerusalem and Samaria, and the places near mountGerizzim, he led them all into *Egypt^ and settled them there^And as he knew that the people of Jerusalem were f most faith­ful in the observation of oaths and covenants; and this from-the answer they made to Alexander, when he sent an ambassageto them, after he had beaten Darius in battle; so he distributedmany of them into garrisons, and at Alexandria gave them-equal privileges of citizens with the Macedonians themselves; andrequired of them to take their oaths, that they would keep theirfidelity to the posterity of those who committed these placesto their care. Nay, there were not a few other Jews, who, oftheir own accord, went into Egypt, as invited by the goodnessof the soil, and by the liberality of Ptolemy. How'ever, therewere disorders among their posterity, with relation to the Sa­maritans, on account of their resolution to preserve that con­duct of life which was delivered to them by their forefathers,and they thereupon contended one with another; while those ofJerusalem said, that their temple was holy, and resolved to sendtheir sacrifices thither; but the Samaritans were resolved thatthey should be sent to mount Gerizzim. CHAP. II. How Ptolemy Philadelphia procured the laws of the Jews to betranslated into the Greek tongue ,' and set many captives free /and dedicated many gifts to God. § 1. \\ HEN Alexander had reigned twelve years, and af­ter him Ptolemy Soter forty years, Philadelphus then took * The great number of the Jews and Samaritans that were formerly carried intoEgypt by Alexander, and now by Ptolemy the son of Lagus, appear afterwards inIhe vast multitude, who, as we shall see presently, were soon ransomed hy Phila­delphus, and by him made free, before he sent for the seventy-two interpreters: inthe many garrisons, and oilier soldiers of that nation in Egypt; in the famous set­tlement of Jews, and the number of their synagogues at Alexandria, long afterward;and in the vehement contention between the Jews and Samaritans under Philometer,about the place appointed for public worship in the law of Moses: whether at theJewish temple at Jerusalem, or at the Samaritans temple at Gerizzim: of all whichour author treats hereafter. And as to the Samaritans carried into Egypt underthe same princes, Scaliger supposes, that these who have a great synagogue at Cairo,as also those whom the Arabic geographer speaks of, as having seized on an islandin the Red Sea, are remains of them at this very day, as the notes here inform us. f Of the sacrednesa of oaths among the Jews in the Old Testament, see ScripturePolitics, p. 54,65.