OCR Output 74 ROMAN EMPIRE. the religion and empire of the Christians. The dis­orders of their country, and their ignorance of theGreek tongue, prevented their clergy from assisting atthe synod of Chalcedon, and they floated eighty-fouryears,b in a state of indifference or suspense, till theirvacant faith was finally occupied by the missionariesof Julian of Halicarnassus,0 who, in Egypt, their com­mon exile, had been vanquished by the arguments orthe influence of his rival Severus, the Monophysite pa­triarch of Antioch. The Armenians alone are thepure disciples of Eutyches, an unfortunate parent, whohas been renounced by the greater part of his spiritualprogeny. They alone persevere in the opinion, thatthe manhood of Christ was created, or existed withoutcreation, of a divine and incorruptible substance. Theiradversaries reproach them with the adoration of a phan­tom; and they retort the accusation, by deriding orexecrating the blasphemy of the Jacobites, who imputeto the Godhead the vile infirmities of the flesh, eventhe natural effects of nutrition and digestion. The re­ligion of Armenia could not derive much glory fromthe learning or the power of its inhabitants. The roy­alty expired with the origin of their schism; and theirChristian kings, who arose and fell in the thirteenthcentury on the confines of Cilicia, were the clients ofthe Latins and the vassals of the Turkish sultan of Ico-nium. The helpless nation has seldom been permittedto enjoy the tranquillity of servitude. From the ear­liest period to the present hour, Armenia has been thetheatre of perpetual war; the lands between Tauris and Christ, de 1'Ethiope ct de 1'Armenie, p. 269—402.) He refers to the great Arme­nian History of Galanus, (3 vols. in folio, Rome, 1650—1661.) and commends thestate of Armenia in the third volume of the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions duLevant. The work of a Jesuit must have sterling merit when it is praised by LaCroze. b The schism of the Armenians is placed eighty-four years after the council ofChalcedon. (Pagi, Critica, ad A. D. 535.) It was consummated at the end ofseventeen years; and it is from the year of Christ 552 that we date the era of theArmenians. (1'Art de verifier les Dates, p. 35.) •' The sentiments and success of Julian of Halicarnassus may be seen in Libe-ratus, (Brev. c. 19.) Benaudot, (Hist. Patriarch, Alei. p. 132—303.) and Asse-mannus. ( Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. Dissertat. de Monophysitis, c. 8. p. 286.)