OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. j79 Page 123. Upon •which they say Apollo laid hit harp."] As thecharacteristics of all the divine orders are participated by the lastof things, hence a vestige of supernal light is not only visible inplants, but in particular stones. Thus, as Proclus observes inhis small treatise Dc Magia, "the sun-stone by its golden rayaimitates those of the sun; but the stone called the eye of heaven,or of the sun, has a figure similar to the pupil of an eye, and aray shines from the middle of the pupil. Thus too the lunartysone, which has a figure similar to the moon when horned, by acertain change of itself, follows the lunar motion. And the stonecalled Iselioselenus, i. e. of the fun and moon, imitates after a man­ner the congress of those luminaries, which it images by its co­lour." This being the cafe, it is by no means wonderful, thatthere should be certain stones which possess a debile vestige ofthe divine harmony of Apollo: and the stone mentioned by Pau-sanias, from its being one of this kind, may have occasioned thefabulous report, that Apollo laid his harp on it. Page 1 a5. An heroic monument of Ino.~\ By Ino the ancientssignified symbolically the sublunary element water, as the follow­ing passage from the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on thePhædo evinces: 0 xaSpof p'.i 0 nrori?.ii>«; >.a?uo; u; iwnxrutxof, ito xeuaffiojia (Tt/eriTy Biu, xou rmtizlafuv Za.K)(f>f wains. Tio-o-apa it re*Xu*ctoivmccitcL irwouo-i, atptto (*iv to CTp, ctyxvtt it t»» yrn, tiourvcutra t«oixiix ynvipala, ua it to :aa , iiu\io; ovea,, j£ atloioi) it Ton atfet, 7)Xompi. i. e. ** Cadmus is the sublunary world, as being Diony-siacal, on which account Harmony is united to the god, and asbeing the father of the four Bacchuses. But they make the souselements to be Dionysiacal; viz. firetobe Semele; earth, Agave,tearing in pieces her own offspring; -water, Ino; and lastly air,Aulonoe." Page 125. Hefiod in his catalogue of viomtn, £sV.] The mean­ing of Hcsiod, in the passage alluded to by Pausauiasin his Cata­logue of Women (which work is unfortunately loit^, is this, asit appears to me: Iphigenia after her death became united with T 4 Hecate,