OCR Output 78 THE ANNALS [A.U. C. 769. place, than the enemy raised the siege, and,consultedtheir safety by flight. It was found, however, thatthey had levelled to the ground the monument erect­ed the year before to Varus and his legions, and like­wise an ancient altar dedicated to Drusus. Theprince rebuilt the altar; and joined with the legionsin equestrian games, performed a funeral ceremonyin honour of his father. He did not judge it advisa­ble to restore the tomb, which had been erected toVarus and the legions; but, with a chain of fortifiedposts, he secured the whole country between FortAliso and the Rhine. ,VIII. The fleet assembled at the place appointed.Germanicus ordered the military stores to bo sent onboard; and, having completed the embarkation ofthe legions and the allies, sailed through the canalcalled the canal of Drusus, invoking his father toassist the enterprise, and by the memory of his ex­ample to guide and animate his son, now pursuing thesame track of glory. The fleet proceeded over thelakes; and, entering the German Ocean, stretchedaway as far as the river Amisia. There, at a placeof the same name on the left hand shore, he landedhis men, leaving his ships safe at their moorings.This measure was ill concerted. The debarkationshould have been made higher up the country, andon the opposite bank, where the enemy had takenpost. The mistake made it necessary to throw bridgesover the river, and in that business several days wereconsumed. At low water the cavalry and the legionsforded over the lestuary without difficulty; but therear, consisting of the auxiliary forces, was over­thrown by the return of the tide, and thrown intodisorder. The Batavians, in particular, eager toshow their dexterity in swimming, continued sportingin the waves till the rapidity of, the current over­whelmed them. Some lost their lives. Germanicuspitched his camp. While he was employed in mark­ing out the lines, he received advice that the Angri-varians, whom he had left behind him were in mo­tion. To check their progress, he sent a detachment*>f light infantry, und.er the command of Stertinius,