OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 277 he fled from the king: and when he had been with SextusCaesar, and had put his own affairs in a sure posture, he resolv­ed to do thus, that in case he were again summoned before thesanhedrim to take his trial, he would not obey that summons.Hereupon the members of the sanhedrim had great indignationat this posture of affairs, and endeavoured to persuade Hyrcanusthat all these things were against him. Which state of mattershe was not ignorant of, but his temper was so unmanly, andso foolish, that he was able to do nothing at all. But when Sextushad made Herod general of the army of Coelesyria, for he soldhim that post for money, Hyrcanus was in fear lest Herodshould make war upon him: nor was the effect of what hefeared long in coming upon him, for Herod came and broughtan army along with him, to fight with Hyrcanus, as being an­gry at the trial he had been summoned to undergo before thesanhedrim, but his father Antipater, and his brother [Phasae-lus,] met him and hindered him from assaulting Jerusalem.They also pacified his vehement temper, and persuaded him todo no overt action, but only to affright them with threatenings,and to proceed no farther against one who had given him thedignity he had: they also desired him not only to be angry thathe was summoned, and obliged to come to his trial, but to re­member withal, how he was dismissed without condemnation,and how he ought to give Hyrcanus thanks for the same, andthat he was not to regard only what was disagreeable to him,and be unthankful for his deliverance. So they desired himto consider, that since it is God that turns the scales of war,there is great uncertainty in the issues of battles, and that there­fore he ought not to expect the victory, when he should fightwith his king, and him that had supported him, and bestowedmany benefits upon him, and had done nothing itself very se­vere to him; for that his accusation, which was derived fromevil counsellors, and not from himself, had rather the suspicionof some severity, than any thing really severe in it. Herodwas persuaded by these arguments, and believed that it wassufficient for his future hopes to have made a show of hisstrength before the nation; and done no more to it: And inthis state were the affairs of Judea at this time. OHAP. X. The honours that were paid the Jews; and the leagues that weremade by the Romans, and other nations, with them. § 1. .N ow when Caesar was come to Rome, he was ready tosail into Africa to fight against Scipio and Cato, when Hyrcau-us sent ambassadors to him, and by them desired that he