OCR Output CHAP. LI. 437 Hassan, who had invested the slight and insufficient ram­part of their camp. Whatever yet remained of Carthage,was delivered to the flames, and the colony of Didoy andCaesar lay desolate above two hundred years, till a part,perhaps a twentieth, of the old circumference was repeo-pled by the first of the Fatimite caliphs. In the begin-ing of the sixteenth century, the second capital of thewest was represented by a mosch, a college without stu­dents, twenty-five or thirty shops, and the huts of fivehundred peasants, who, in their abject poverty, displayedthe arrogance of the Punic senators. Even that paltryvillage was swept away by the Spaniards whomCharles V. had stationed in the fortress of the Goletta.The ruins of Carthage have perished; and the place mightbe unknown if some broken arches of an aqueduct didnot guide the footsteps of the inquisitive traveller.2Final con- The Greeks were expelled, but the ArabiansAfrica* were not yet masters of the country. In theA. D. 698 interior provinces the Moors or Berbers,* sofeeble under the first Caesars, so formidable tothe Byzantine princes, maintained a disorderly resistanceto the religion and power of the successors of Mahomet. J According to Solinus, (lib. 27. p. 36. edit , Salmas.) the Carthage of Dido stoodeither six hundred and seventy-seven or seven hundred and thirty-seven years; avarious reading, which proceeds from the difference of AlSS.or editions. (Sahnas.Plinian. Exercit. torn. 1. p. 228.) The former of these accounts, which gives eighthundred and twenty-three years before Christ, is more consistent with the well-weighed testimony of Velleius Paterculus; but the latter is preferred by our chro-nologists (Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 398.) as more agreeable to the Hebrew andTynan annals. * Leo African, fol. 71. verso, 72. recto. Mannol, torn. 2. p. 445—447. Shaw, p. 80. • The history of the word Barbur may be classed under four periods.—1. Inthe time of Homer, when the Greeks and Asiatics might probably use a commonidiom, the imitative sound of Barbar was applied to the ruder tribes, whose pro­nunciation was most harsh, whose grammar was most defective. Kapi; utc&ifi$xm.(Iliad 2. 867. with the Oxford scholiast, Clarke's Annotation, and HenryStephens' Greek Thesaurus, torn. 1. p. 720.) 2. From the time, at least, of He-Todotus, it was extended to all the nations who were strangers to the language andmanners of the Greeks, 3. In the age of Plautus, the Romans submitted to theinsult (Pompeius Festus, lib. 2. p. 48. edit. Dacier), and freely gave themselvesthe name of barbarians. They insensibly claimed an exemption for Italy, and hersubject provinces; and at length removed the disgraceful appellation to the savageor hostile nations beyond the pale of the empire. 4. In every sense it was due tothe Moors; the familiar word was borrowed from_ the Latin provincials by theArabian conquerors, and ha* j'tK''y rettlrd as n local denomination (Barbaty) alongthe northern coast of Africa.