OCR Output 32 SILVER PAGEANTS. annually for fifty years, but no gold; yet we cannot suppose therewas any scarcity of it in the world. Midas and Croesus had,before this time, been in possession of immense quantities. AndCyrus, when he conquered Asia, found 34,000 lbs. weight of it,besides golden vessels and various articles of wrought gold; amongother things, a plane tree, and a vine made of gold.3 From thisvictory he obtained 500,000 talents of silver, and also the vase ofSemiramis, which was said to weigh fifteen talents. We are in­formed, by Varro, that the Egyptian talent is equal to 80 lbs. Itwas before this time, that Salauces reigned in Colchos, and alsoEsubopes, who is said to have got possession of a tract of virginsoil, in the country of the Suani, a country which had long beenfamous for its golden fleeces, from which he is reported to havedug up a very great quantity both of silver and gold. We aretold that the arched roof of his palace was made of gold, and thatthe beams, columns, and pilasters,4 were made of silver: this wasthe case after he had conquered Sesostris, the King of Egypt,who was so haughty, that he is said every year to have selected,by lot, certain kings, out of those whom he had subdued, and thathe was in the habit of yoking them to his chariot, and in thismanner rode in triumph. 16. WHEN THE FIRST PAGEANT OF SILVER WAS BROUGHT ONTHE STAGE, AND WHEN ON THE ARENA. Even we ourselves have done things which will be scarcelycredited by posterity. Caesar, he who was afterwards dictator,during his aedileship, when he exhibited funeral games in honourof his father, was the first who had all the apparatus of theamphitheatre made of silver, those who were condemned to thecombat using then, for the first time, silver spears, a practice 3 This probably refers to the golden plane tree and vine, which Pythiusof Lydia is said to have presented to Darius. See Herodotus, book vii.sec. 27; also, sec. 47, of this book. * "Parastaticse." It may be doubted whether the ancients had any thingwhich exactly corresponds to our pilaster; the word occurs in Vitruvius,ix. 9, "in columna aut parastatice;" the term "parastate," which is foundin some of the MS., would appear to refer to another part of the building.Parastatae is met with, v. 1; and is supposed by Rode to be synonymouswith pilastre; see lexicon in loco; Newton retains the Latin term in histranslation, p. 74.