OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 41 mentioned occurrence at Pbacus, where the whole governingcouncil of one of these confederacies were murdered on theinstigation of one Damasippus. Neither the commissionssent by the senate (590), nor the foreign arbiters, such as 164.Scipio -iEmilianus (603) called in after the Greek fashion bythe Macedonians, were able to establish any tolerable order. 151.Suddenly there appeared in Thrace a young man, who calledhimself Philip the son of king Perseus, whom he strikinglyresembled, and of the Syrian Laodice. He had passed hisyouth in the Mysian town of Adramyttium; there heasserted that he had preserved the sure proofs of hisillustrious descent. With these he had, after a vain attemptto obtain recognition in his native country, resorted toDemetrius Soter, king of Syria, his mother's brother. Therewere in fact some who believed the Adramyttene or pro­fessed to believe him, and urged the king either to reinstatethe prince in his hereditary kingdom or to cede to him thecrown of Syria; whereupon Demetrius, to put an end tothe foolish proceeding, arrested the pretender and sent himto the Romans. But the senate attached so little import­ance to the man, that it confined him in an Italian townwithout taking steps to have him even seriously guarded.Thus he had escaped to Miletus, where the civic autho­rities once more seized him and asked the Roman commis­sioners what they should do with the prisoner. The latteradvised them to let him go; and they did so. He nowtried his fortune further in Thrace; and, singularly enough,he obtained recognition and support there not only fromTeres the chief of the Thracian barbarians, the husband ofhis father's sister, and Barsabas, but also from the prudentByzantines. With Thracian support the so-called Philipinvaded Macedonia, and, although he was defeated at first,he soon gained one victory over the Macedonian militia in thedistrict of Odomantice beyond the Strymon, followed by asecond on the west side of the river, which gave him posses­sion of all Macedonia. Apocryphal as his story sounded,and decidedly as it was established that the real Philip, theson of Perseus, had died when eighteen years of age at Alba,and that this man, so far from being a Macedonian prince,was Andriscus a fuller of Adramyttium, yet the Macedo­nians were too much accustomed to the rule of a king notto be readily satisfied on the point of legitimacy and toreturn with pleasure into the old paths. Messengers