OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1Q5 aimed their arrows against a crowd of barbarians, who,instead of a cuirass and helmet, were covered by a loosegarment of fur or linen. They paused, they trembled,their ranks were confounded, and in the decisive momentthe Heruli, preferring glory to revenge, charged'withrapid violence the head of the column. Their leader,Sindbal, and Aligern, the Gothic prince, deserved theprize of superior valour; and their example incited thevictorious troops to achieve with swords and spears thedestruction of the enemy. Buccelin, and the greatestpart of his army, perished on the field of battle, in thewaters of Vulturnus, or by the hands of the enraged pea­sants: but it may seem incredible that a victory,' whichno more than five of the Alemanni survived, could bepurchased with the loss of fourscore Romans. Seventhousand Goths, the relics of the war, defended the for­tress of Campsatill the ensuing spring; and every mes­senger of Narses announced the reduction of the Italiancities, whose names were corrupted by the ignorance orvanity of the Greeks.* After the battle of Casilinum,Narses entered the capital; the arms and treasures ofthe Goths, the Franks, and Alemanni, were displayed;his soldiers, with garlands in their hands, chaunted thepraises of the conqueror; and Rome, for the last time,beheld the semblance of a triumph. After a reign of sixty years, the throne of the Gothic Settlementkings was filled by the exarchs of Ravenna, the represen- a. d. 554tatives in peace and war of the emperor of the Romans. —568'Their jurisdiction was soon reduced to the limits of anarrow province: but Narses himself, the first and mostpowerful of the exarchs, administered above fifteen yearsthe entire kingdom of Italy. Like Belisarius, he haddeserved the honours of envy, calumny, and disgrace: f Agalhias (lib. 2. p. 47.) has produced a Greek epigram of six lines on this victory-of Narses, which is favourably compared to the battles of Marathon and Platsea.The chief difference is indeed in their consequences—so trivial in the former instance—so permanent and glorious in the latter. t The Beroi and Brincas of Theoplianes or his transcriber (p. 201.) must be reador understood Verona and Brixia.