OCR Output 340 MESSENE. MESSENIA. The masonry was not in general such as has beendescribed at the towers near the pate of Megalopolis,but, as in most Greek works of defence, consisted ofan exterior and interior facing of that kind of ma­sonry filled up with rubble. In describing Messcne, Pausanias first mentionsthe Agora, which contained a fountain called Ar-t-inoe, supplied by a subterraneous canal from thesource named Clepsydra. In the Agora, probably inthe centre, was a statue of Zeus Soter. The varioustemples, which he then proceeds to enumerate,either surrounded the Agora, or were in its imme­diate neighbourhood. These were temples of Poseidonand Aphrodite; a marble statue of the mother of thegod*, the work of Damophon, who also made theMntue of Artemis Laphria; a temple of Eileithyia,a sacred building of the Curetes, and a sanctuary ofDemeter, containing statues of the Dioscuri. Butthe temple of Asclepius contained the greatest num­ber of statues, all of which were made by Damo­phon. The temple of Messene contained her statuein gold and Parian marble, while the back: part wasadorned with pictures representing the Messenianheroes and kings. A building, called Hierosythium,contained statues of all the gods worshipped by the<ireeks. Pausanias next mentions the gymnasium,with statues made by Aegyptian artists, a pillarWaring a figure of Aethidas in relief, and the monu­ment of Aristomenes,—the stadium containing abrazen statue of Aristomenes ; and lastly, the theatre,with the adjoining temple of Serapis and Isis. Thefountain called Clepsydra occurs in ascending to thesummit of It home. On the summit was a templeof Zeus Ithomatas; and an annual festival, calledIthomaca, was celebrated in honour of the god.(Paus. iv. 31. § 6 —iv. 33. § 2.) The Agora must have stood near the modernvillage of Marromdti, in the neighbourhood of whichmost of the foundations of the ancient buildings arefound. The rivulet, which now runs u neon finedthrough the village, was in ancient times conductedthrough a subterraneous canal, and formed thefountain Arsinoe mentioned above. The modernvillage has derived its name from the Bpring,—Mavromdti meaning Black Spring or Black Ere.South of the site of the Agora are the ruins of thestadium, of which the upper or circular end andmore than half of one of the sides still remain.The rivulet of Mavromdti now runs through thelength of the stadium. "The stadium was sur­rounded by a colonnade, which was double at theupper end: here the lower parts of the columns arein their original places; there were about twenty ineach row, 1 foot 10 inches in diameter, with Doricflu tings. Part of the colonnade, on the right side ofthe stadium, is likewise in its place, and on the leftside is the foundation of a public edifice, where arcmany pieces of columns of the same description asthe colonnade round the stadium. Perhaps thiswas the Hiorothysiuin. The stone seats of the sta­dium did not extend its whole length, but about two-thirds only; at the circular end, they are most perfect."(I,e:ike.) Immediately south of the stadium is awall, which appears to have been part of the walls ofthe city. In this wall a small temple is built, likea kind of tower. Between the stadium and the villageof .\farrtmuitiy to the west of the rivulet, are the re­mains of a small theatre, about 60 fi-et in diameter.North of the stadiutn the slope is divided into terraces,of which the supporting walls still remain. Here someof the temples mentioned by Pausaulas probably stood* In ascending Mount Ithome, there is about halfway up a terrace of considerable sire, which com­mands a fine view of the Messenian gulf. Here theFrench Commission discovered some ruins over­grown with shrubs, which appear to have beesan Ionic temple facing the east, containing a ponhwith two columns and a cella. This was probably atemple of Artemis, as an inscription here found con­tains the names of Measenians, who had held thepriesthood of Artemis Limnatis, and the remains ofthe statue discovered in the cella appear to be thoseof this goddess. Below the temple are two smallerterraces ; and 60 feet further sideways, VVSW. of thetemple, is a kind of grotto cut out of the ruck, witha portico, of which there are remains of five pillars.This was, perhaps, intended to receive the water ofthe fountain Clepsydra, which Pausanias mexttinsin his ascent to the summit of the mountain. Tbssummit itself is a small hat surface, extending fromSE. to N W. On the northern and eastern aides thewall runs along the edge of the perpendicular cliff*.and some remains of a more ancient masonry may beperceived, which probably belonged to the earlierfortifications of Messcne. At the northern abdbroader end of the summit are the deserted buildingsof the monastery of Vurkano; this was undoubtedlythe site of the temple of Zeus Ithomatas. There isa magnificent view from the summit. Along tbsnorthern boundary of the horizon the Lycaean rangeextends ; to the east are seen the mountains nownamed MaJeryplai, which unite with the range ofTaVgetum; to the north-west the sea-coast betweenthe rivers Cyparissceis and Neda is visible; while tothe south the mouth of the Pamisus and the Mes­senian gulf are spread open to view. The similarity of Ithome to Acrocorinthos m no­ticed by Strabo (viii. p. 361). He observe*, thatboth are lofty and precipitous mountains, overhang­ing their respective cities, but connected with themby a common line of fortifications. Messcne conti­nued to exist in the later times of the Koman em­pire, as we learn from inscriptions; but in themiddle ages it had ceased to be a place of any im­portance ; and hence the ancient remains bav* beenless disturbed by the hands of man than in ni.»tother parts of Greece. (Leake, J/crta, vol. i. p. 366.seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 264; Bub-laye, Recherche*, $c., p. 107, seq.; Curtiua, /V**o»potiMMts, voL ii. p. 138, seq.) MESSE'NIA(M*ir*iji'i«, Herod., Thuc, in clterwriters, MWa^jKij, Horn. Otl. xxi. 15; M«rca#«,Pind. Pyth. iv. 126; shortened M«r<rij, Me<rw,Steph. B. i. r. Mtafryjyia; MfffOTji-lr y^r Thux. iv.41 : AM. and Adj. Mtoafyios: Adj. M*<7o-nriaK»i\the south-westerly district of Peloponneaoa, buejndnlon the east by Laoonia, on the north by Eh* andArcadia, and on the south and west by llw sea. Itwas separated from Laconia by lit. Taygetm, l«atpart of the western slope of this mountain bp|»if.r*Jto Laconia, and the exact boundary between lb* r«*states, which varied at different times, will be men­tioned presently. Its southern frontier was the knotof mountains, which form the watershed of tba>rivers Neda, Pamisus and AJpbeius, On the *outhit was washed by the Me>senian gulf (•* M*ff<nvri*«*«koAwoi, Strab. viii. p. 335). called al»» the Cor->-naean or Asinaean gulf, from the towns of Corona «rAsinc, on its western shore, now the Gmty of K+-roni. On the east it was bounded by the Sicilian arIonian sea. The area of Mc»*rida, ae calcuUled byClinton, from Arrowsmith'b map is 1162 square tn.ar*w