OCR Output 456 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. lished. It was not until the present period that theAtellan piece was handed over to actors properly so called,*and was employed, like the Greek satyric drama, as anafterpiece particularly after tragedies; a change which na­turally suggested the extension of literary activity to thatfield. Whether this authorship developed itself altogetherindependently, or whether possibly the art-farce of LowerItaly, in various respects of kindred character, gave theimpulse to this Roman farce,\ can no longer be determined;that the several pieces were uniformly original works, iscertain. The founder of this new species of literature,Lucius Pomponius from the Latin colony of Bononia, ap­peared in the first half of the seventh century ;J and alongwith his pieces those of another poet Novius soon becamefavourites. So far as the few remains and the reports ofthe old litteratores allow us to form an opinion, they wereshort farces, ordinarily perhaps of one act, the charm of whichdepended less on the preposterous and loosely constructedplot than on the drastic portraiture of particular classesand situations. Festal days and public acts were favouritesubjects of comic delineation, such as the "Marriage,"the "First of March," "Harlequin Candidate;" so were * In the time of the Empire the Atellana was represented by professionalactors (Friedlander in Becker's Handbuch, iv. 546). The time at which thesebegan to engage in it is not reported, but it can hardly have been other thanthe time at which the Atellan was admitted among the regular stage-plays, i.e.,the epoch before Cicero (Oic. ad Fam. ix. 16). This view is not inconsistentwith the circumstance that still in Livy's time (vii. 2) the Atellan playersretained their honorary rights as contrasted with other actors; for the state­ment that professional actors began to take part in performing the Atellana forpay does not imply that the Atellana was no longer performed, in the countrytowns for instance, by unpaid amateurs, and the privilege therefore still re­mained applicable. t It deserves attention that the Greek farce was not only especially at homein Lower Italy, but that several of its pieces (e.g., among those of Sopater,the " Lentile-Porridge," the "Wooers of Bacchis," the " Valet of Mystakos,"the " Bookworms,'' the " Physiologist") strikingly remind us of the Ateilanae.This composition of farces must have reached down to the time at which theGreeks in and around Neapolis formed a distinct enclosure within the Latin-speaking Campania; for one of these writers of farces, BLtsus of Capreae, bearseven a Roman name and wrote a farce "Saturnus."90. + According to Eusebius, Pomponius flourished about 664; Velleius calls 140-91. him a contemporary of Lucius Crassus (614—663) and Marcus Antonius143—87. (611-667). The former statement is probably about a generation too late;100. the reckoning by victoriati (P. 415) which was discontinued about 650 stilloccurs in his Pictores, and about the end of this period we already meet themimes which displaced the Atellana; from the stage.