OCR Output Chap. X.] THE StTLLAN CONSTITUTION. S59 intrusting the office of jurymen to men of equestrian censusprocured for the capitalist class an indirect share in ad­ministration and in government, which proved not seldomstronger than the executive; Sulla abolished the eques­trian and restored the senatorial courts. Gaius Gracchusor at any rate the Gracchan period had conceded to theequites a special place at the popular festivals, such as thesenators had for long possessed (ii. 321); Sulla abolished itand relegated the equites to the plebeian benches.* Theequestrian order, created as such by Gaius Gracchus, was de­prived of its political existence by Sulla. The senate was toexercise the supreme power in legislation, administration, andjurisdiction unconditionally, indivisibly, and permanently,and was to be distinguished also by outward tokens notmerely as a privileged, but as the only privileged, order. For this purpose the governing board had, first of all, to Reorganiza-have its ranks filled up and to be itself placed on a footing tIon of tl,eof independence. The numbers of the senators had been sena e'fearfully reduced by the recent crises. Sulla no doubt nowgave to those who were exiled by the equestrian courtsliberty to return, for instance to the consular Publius Kuti-lius Rufus (P. 219), who however made no use of the per­mission, and to Gaius Cotta the friend of Drusus (P. 237);but this made only slight amends for the gaps which the revo­lutionary and reactionary reigns of terror had created in theranks of the senate. Accordingly by Sulla's directions the its comple-senate had its complement extraordinarily made up by the ment filledaddition of about 300 new senators, whom the assembly of UP ov.ex"the tribes had to nominate from among those of equestrian traol.dml,r.vcensus, and whom they selected, as was natural, chiefly fromthe younger men of the senatorial houses on the one hand,and from Sullan officers and others brought into prominenceby the last revolution on the other. For the future also themode of admission to the senate was regulated anew and pro Flacc. 14, 32), and by the further circumstance, that on occasion ofbuilding a fleet in 672 the sums applied for that purpose were deducted from the 8'2.payment of tribute (ex pecunia rectigali populo Romano (Cic. Verr. I. i. 35, 89).Lastly, Cicero [ad Q. fr. i. 1,11, 33) directly says, that the Greeks " were notin a position of themselves to pay the tax imposed on them by Sulla withoutpublicani." * P. 114. Tradition has not indeed informed us by whom that law wasissued, which rendered it necessary that the earlier privilege should be renewedby the Koman theatre-law of 687 (Becker-Friedlander, iv. 531); but the 67.autbor of that law was, from the state of the case, undoubtedly Sulla.