OCR Output 254 Ll VY. terred the other states from joining in alliance withRome. For thus the oldest member of their assembly-replied, ' Where is your sense of shame, Romans,when you require of us that we should prefer yourfriendship to that of the Carthaginians ? The Sagun-tines, who embraced it, have been abandoned by you :in which abandonment you, their allies, have showngreater cruelty than the Carthaginians, their enemy,showed in destroying them. What I recommend is,that you seek connexions where the fatal disaster ofSaguntum is unknown. To the states of Spain theruins of that city will be both a melancholy and forci­ble warning, not to confide in the faith or alliance ofRome.' They were then ordered to depart immedi­ately from the territories of the Volscians ; nor didthey afterwards meet from any assembly in Spain amore favorable reception ; therefore, after making acircuit through all parts of that country without effect­ing any thing, they passed over into Gaul. 20. At Ruscino they encountered a new and terrify­ing spectacle; the people coming in arms to the assem­bly, for such is the custom of that country. Afterdisplaying in magnificent terms the renown and thevalor of the Roman people, and the greatness of theirempire, they requested that the Gauls would not granta passage through their cities and territories to theCarthaginian, who was preparing to invade Italy. Onwhich, we are told, such a laugh was raised, accompa­nied by a general outcry of displeasure, that the ma­gistrates and the elder members of the assembly couldwith difficulty bring the younger men into order, sounreasonable and so absurd did it appear to requirethat the Gauls should not suffer the war to pass intoItaly, but should draw it on themselves, and exposetheir own lands to devastation, instead of those ofstrangers. When the uproar was at length appeased,an answer was given to the ambassadors, that ' theGauls had never received either any kindness fromthe Romans, or ill treatment from the Carthaginians,that should induce them to take arms either in favor of