OCR Output 54 [book II ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. make a long lamentation for him; and weare in affliction both by calamity of the deathof our brother, and the miserable state of ouraged father. We are now, therefore, cometo buy corn; having intrusted the care of ourfather, and the provision of our family to Ben­jamin, our youngest brother; and if thousendest to our house thou mayest learn whe­ther we are guilty of the least falsehood inwhat we say." Thus did Reubel endeavour to persuadeJoseph to have a better opinion of them; butwhen he had learned that Jacob was alive,and that his brother was not destroyed bythem, he, for the present, put them in prison;as intending to examine more into their affairswhen he should be at leisure. But on thethird day he brought them out, and said tothem, "Since you constantly affirm, that youare not come to do any harm to the king'saffairs; that you are brethren, and sons ofthe father whom you named; you will satisfyme of the truth of what you say, if you leaveone of your company with me, who shallsuffer no injury here; and if, when you havecarried corn to your father, you will come tome again, and bring your brother, whom yousay you left there, along with you, this shallbe esteemed an assurance of the truth ofwhat you have told me." Hereupon theywere in greater grief than before; they wept,and perpetually deplored one among anotherthe calamity of Joseph; and said, they werefallen into this misery as a punishment in­flicted by God for the evil contrivances theyhad against him. And Reubel reproachedthem for their too late repentance, whenceno profit arose to Joseph; and earnestly ex­horted them to bear with patience whateverthey suffered, since it was done by God inway of punishment on his account. Thusthey spake to one another, not imagining thatJoseph understood their language. A generalsadness also seized on them at Reubel'swords, and a repentance for what they had done; and they condemned the wickednessthey had perpetrated, for which they judgedthey were justly punished by God. JNowwhen Joseph saw that they were in this dis­tress, he was so affected that he burst intotears; but not being willing that they shouldtake notice of him, he retired, and after awhile came to them again; and takingSimeon,* in order to his being a pledge forhis brethren's return; he bid them take thecorn they had bought, and go their way. Healso commanded his steward privily to putthe money which they had brought withthem for the purchase of corn, into theirsacks,f and to dismiss them therewith, whodid as he was commanded. When Jacob's sons were come into theland of Canaan, they told their father whathad happened to them in Egypt; and thatthey were taken to have come thither asspies upon the king; how they said theywere brethren, and had left their eleventhbrother with their father, but were not be­lieved; and that they had left Simeon withthe governor, until Benjamin should gothither, and be a testimonial of the truth ofwhat they had said. They then begged oftheir father to fear nothing, but to send thelad along with them; but Jacob was notpleased- with any thing his sons had done,and being grieved at the detention ofSimeon, he thought it a foolish thing to giveup Benjamin also. Neither did he yield toReubel's persuasion, though he said that thegrandfather might, in way of requital, kill hisown sons, in case any harm came to Benja­min in the journey. So they were distrestand knew not what to do. Nay, there wasanother accident that still disturbed themmore: the money that was found hidden intheir sacks of corn. Yet when the corn theyhad brought failed them, and when the faminestill afflicted them, and necessity forcedthem, Jacob did not still resolve to sendBenjamin with his brethren; although there * The reason why Simeon might be selected out of therest for Joseph's prisoner, is plain in the Testament ofSimeon, viz. that he was one of the bitterest of all Joseph'sbrethren against him. t There are two sorts of sacks taken notice of in thehistory of Joseph, which ought not to be confounded; onefor the corn, the other for the baggage. There are nowaggons almost through all Asia, as far as to the Indies, every thing is carried upon beasts of burthen, in sacks ofwool, covered in the middle with leather, the better tomake resistance to water. Sacks of this sort are calledtambellit; they inclose in them their things done up inlarge parcels. It is of this kind of sacks we are to under­stand what is said here and all through this history, and notof their sacks in which they carry their corn. (Chardin.)Harmf.r, v. i. p. 429. B