OCR Output 652 POMPEII. and was erected by a certain M. Tullius, a citizenam! magistrate of Pompeii, who has been supposedto be of the family of Cicero; but the absence of thecognomen renders this highly improbable. Theepithet of Fortuna Augusta shows that the templeand its inscription are not earlier than the time ofAugustus. It is much in ruins, having probably.suffered severely from the earthquake of 63; andlias little architectural effect. Pompeii possessed two Theatres and an Amphi­theatre. The former were situated, as seems to havebeen usual in Greek towns, close together; the largerone being intended and adapted for theatrical per­formances properly so called; the smaller one servingas an Odeum, or theatre for music. Both are un­questionably of lloman date: the larger one waserected (as we learn from an inscription found in it)by two members of the same family, M. HolconiUSIiufus and M. Holconhis Celcr, botli of whom appearto have held high civil offices in the municipalgovernment of Pompeii. The period of its con­struction may probably be referred to the reign ofAugustus. The smaller theatre seems to be of ear­lier date, and was erected at the public expenseunder the direction of the Duumviri or chief magis­trates of the city. The large Theatre is to a con­siderable extent excavated out of the side of a hill,on the slope of which it was situated, thus saving aconsiderable amount of the expense of construction.But the exterior was still surrounded by a wall, apart of which always rose above the surface of thesoil, so that it is singular it should not have longbefore led to the discovery of the buried city. Itsinternal disposition and arrangements, without ex­actly coinciding with the rules laid down by Vi-truvius, approach sufficiently near to them to showthat it was constructed on the Roman, and not theGreek model. Its architect (as we learn from aninscription) was a freedman of the name of M. Ar­teritis Primus. It seems to have been almost whollycased or lined with marble, but the greater part ofthis, as well as the other decorations of the building,has been carried away by former excavations, pro­bably made soon after the catastrophe. The interiordiameter of the building is 223 feet: it had 29rows of seats, divided into three stories by galleriesor proecncnKMieJ, and was capable of containingabout 5000 spectators. The smaller Theatre, whichcommunicated with the larger by a covered porticoon the level of the orchestra, was not above a fourthof the size of the other, being adapted to receive onlyabout 1500 spectators. We learn from an inscrip­tion that it was covered or permanently roofed in,a rare thing with ancient theatres, and doubtlessowing to its small size. Its chief architectural pe­culiarity is that the seats are cut off by the walls atthe two sides, so that it is only the lower seats ofthe cavta, of which the semicircle is complete. Adjoining the two theatres, and arranged so as tohave a direct communication with both, is a largequadrangular court or area (183 feet long by148 wide), surrounded on all sides by a Doricportico. Its destination is very uncertain, ithas been called a provision market (Forum Nun-dinarium); but is more generally regarded as havingserved for the barracks or quarters of the soldiers.Perhaps a more plausible conjecture is that it wasa barrack, not of soldiers but of gladiators. Onthe \V. of this, as well as of the great theatre,was the triangular area or forum already noticed, inwhich the Greek temple was situated. The opening of this on the N., wlstreet, was ornament**composed of eight 1style, but consisting Icased with stucco. The Amphitheatreabove 500 yards fromSK. angle of the city,differences from otherdimensions (430 feetplace it in the first ranof the class; and fromout of the soil, it has Icharacter of the am piBOS, or Pola. It had20.000 feet of sittinsto receive at least 10,the inscriptions foundbuilt, or at least comtrates, named C. Qu'mafter the establishmentand probably in the reThe only public binoticed is that of thwere situated in the iadjoining the short strTemple of Fortune,with the magnificent sthe name of Thermaegreat cities; but arecomplete suite of all abathing, and from tfcmuch light upon all sof their constructiongiven in the ItictkBalheak], as well asto Pompeii. It is impossible heconcerning the resultsto the private dwvlfinjare, in many respects, Ilight they have thrownancient inhabitants, thwell as from the artisobjects discovered. Acharacter of the houseof Pompeii are all thatthese are almost the oithat have been preserv<mind that they can haitag in their purity th<Greek or Roman modhand Pompeii, though fcivilisation, was not a Cthough there is no doulpresent much more thethan that of the Greekthey represent them inleast, that Rome itselfin a very different rknown passage, contralofty houses, and iircapital with the broadmeat of Capua, nsjejlevel plain; and it isPompeii more resemblthan the imperial city,ready stated) were narstraight and regular, alow, seldom exceedingeven of these the upper