OCR Output 250 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. as may well be supposed, terrified the queen and the nation. Ac足cordingly they sent him many and very valuable presents; asalso ambassadors, and that as he was besieging Ptolemais; forSelene the queen, the same that was also called Cleopatra, ruledthen over Syria, who had persuaded the inhabitants to excludeTigranes. So the Jewish ambassadors interceded with him, andentreated him that he would determine nothing that was severeabout their queen or nation. He commended them for the re足spects they paid him at so great a distance: and gave them goodhopes of his favour. But as soon as Ptolemais was taken, newscame to Tigranes that Lucullus, in his pursuit of Mithridates,could not light upon him, who was fled into Tberia, but waslaying waste Armenia and besieging its cities. Now, whenTigranes knew this he returned home. 5. After this, when the queen was fallen into a dangerousdistemper, Aristobulus resolved to attempt the seizing of thegovernment; so he stole away secretly by night, with only one ofhis servants, and went to the fortresses wherein his friends thatwere such from the days of his father, were settled: for as hehad been a great while displeased at his mother's conduct, so hewas now much more afraid, lest upon her death, their wholefamily should be under the power of the Pharisees, for he sawthe inability of his brother, who was to succeed in the govern足ment : nor was any one conscious of what he was doing but onlyhis wife, whom he left at Jerusalem with their children. Hefirst of all came to Agaba, where was Galestes, one of the potentmen before mentioned, and was received by him. When it wasday the queen perceived that Aristobulus was fled; and forsome time she supposed that his departure was not in order tomake any innovation, but when messengers came one afteranother with the news that he had secured the first place, thesecond place, and all the places, for as soon as one had begunthey all submitted to his disposal, then it was that the queen andthe nation were in the greatest disorder, for they were awarethat it would not be long ere Aristobulus would be able to settlehimself firmly in the government. What they were principallyafraid of was this, that he would inflict punishment upon themfor the mad treatment his house had had from them: So theyresolved to take his wife and children into custody, and keepthem in the * fortress that was over the temple. Now therewas a mighty conflux of people that came to Aristobulus from * This fortress, castle, citadel, or tower, whither the wife and children of Aristo足bulus were now sent, and which overlooked the temple, could be no other than whatHyrcanus I. built, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. iv. sect. 3. vol. III. and Herod the Greatrebuilt, and called the Tower ofAntonia, Antiq. B. XV. ch. xi. sect. 5. vol. II.