OCR Output Chap. VI.] THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION. 197 playing afresh his military ability as governor of FurtherSpain. How he thereafter in spite of the aristocracy re­ceived the consulship in 647 and, as proconsul (648, 649), 107. lOtf.terminated the African war; and how, called after the 105.calamitous day of Arausio to the superintendence of thewar against the Germans, he had his consulship renewed forfour successive years from 650 to 653 (a thing unexampled 104-101.in the annals of the republic) and vanquished and annihi­lated the Cimbrians in Cisalpine, and the Teutones inTransalpine, Gaul—has been already related. In his mili­tary position he had shown himself a brave and upright man,.who administered justice impartially, disposed of the spoil.with rare honesty and disinterestedness, and was thoroughlyincorruptible; a skilful organizer, who had brought thesomewhat rusty machinery of the Roman military systemonce more into a state of efficiency; an able general, whokept the soldier under discipline and withal in good humourand at the same time won his affections in comrade-likeintercourse, but looked the enemy boldly in the face and joinedissue with him at the proper time. He was not, as far as wecan judge, a man of eminent military capacity; but the veryrespectable qualities which he possessed were quite sufficientunder the existing circumstances to procure for him such areputation, and by virtue of it he had taken his place in afashion of unparalleled honour among the consulars and thetriumphators. But he was none the better fitted on thataccount for the brilliant circle. His voice remained harshand loud, and his look wild, as if he still saw before himLibyans or Cimbrians, and not well-bred and refined col­leagues. That he was superstitious like a genuine soldierof fortuue; that he was induced to become a candidate forhis first consulship, not by the impulse of his talents, butprimarily by the utterances of an Etruscan haruspex; andthat in the campaign with the Teutones a Syrian prophetessMartha lent the aid of her oracles to the council of war,—these things were not, in the strict sense, unaristocratic: insuch matters, then as at all times, the highest and loweststrata of society met. But the want of political culture wasunpardonable; it was creditable, no doubt, that he had theskill to defeat the barbarians, but what was to be thought ofa consul who was so ignorant of the rules of etiquette as toappear in triumphal costume in the senate! In other re­spects too the plebeian character clung to him. He was not