OCR Output an. 1052.] 273 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. years afterwards,* when he heard that twoof hie servants were run away from him, andwere in Gath, he went for his servants inhaste: and when he was come back withthem, the king perceived it, and was muchdispleased that he had contemned his com­mands, and what was more, had no regard tothe oaths he had sworn to God. So he calledhim, and said, "Didst not thou swear neverto leave, nor to go out of this city to another?Thou shalt not therefore escape punishmentfor thy perjury, but I will punish thee, thouwicked wretch! both for this crime, and forthose wherewith thou didst abuse my father,when he was in his flight; that thou mayestknow that wicked men gain nothing at last;although they be not punished immediatelyupon their unjust practices; but that in all thetime wherein they think themselves secure,because they have yet suffered nothing, theirpunishment increases, and is heavier uponthem; and that to a greater degree than ifthey had been punished immediately uponthe commission of their crimes" So Benaiah,on the king's command, slew Shimei. CHAP. II. op Solomon's marriage; his wisdom and riches; andthe assistance he obtained from hiram towardsthe building of the temple. SOLOMON having settled himself firmlyin his kingdom, and having brought hisenemies to punishment; married the daughterof Pharaoh, king of Egypt! He also built thewalls of JerusalemJ much larger and strongerthan those which had been before: andthenceforward he managed public affairs verypeaceably. Nor was his youth any hindrance in the exercise of justice, the observance ofthe law, or the remembrance of what chargeshis father had given him at his death: but hedischarged every duty with greater accuracythan might have been expected from such as.are aged, and of the greatest prudence. Henow resolved to go to Hebron,|| and sacrificeto God upon the brazen altar that was builtby Moses. Accordingly he offered there athousand burnt offerings. And when he haddone this, he thought he had payed greathonour to God. For as he was asleep thatvery night, God appeared to him, and com­manded him to ask of him some gifts whichhe was ready to bestow on him, as a rewardfor his piety. So Solomon asked of Godwhat was most excellent, and of the greatestworth in itself: what God would bestow withthe greatest joy; and what it was most pro­fitable for man to receive. For he did notdesire either gold, silver, or any other riches,as a young man might naturally have done;for these are the things that generally are es­teemed by most men, as alone of the greatestworth, and of the best gifts of God. "But,"said he, "Give me, O Lord, a sound mind,and a good understanding; whereby I mayspeak and judge the people according totruth and righteousness." With these peti­tions God was well pleased, and promisedto give him all those things that he had notmentioned in his option, riches, glory, victoryover his enemies; and in the first place, un­derstanding and wisdom; and this in such adegree, as no other mortal man, neither kingsnor ordinary persons ever had. He also pro­mised to preserve the kingdom to his posterityfor a very long time; if he continued righteousand obedient to him, and imitated his father might think proper to confine him to the city of Jerusalem,that, being removed from the place where his family andinterest lay, to one where he was but a stranger, and suf­ficiently odious for his former ill treatment of the lateking, he might be incapable of raising any tumults orseditions; and that, being in this public theatre, all hiswords and actions might be narrowly observed, which,considering his busy and wicked temper, might give So­lomon a fair advantage against him, and, as the manner ofsome is, the very prohibition itself might probably inflamehis desire to transgress it. Pool's Annotations. B. * About an. 1052. t 1 Kings iii. 1. J This building the walls of Jerusalem, soon afterDavid's death, illustrates the conclusion of the fifty-firstPsalm, where David prays: Build thou the walls of Jeru- salem; they being, it seems, unfinished or imperfect atthat time. See VIII. 6, and 1 Kings ix. 15. II Although both the Hebrew and the Septuagint say1 Kings iii. 4, 5. and 2 Chron. i. 3. that the place whitherSolomon now went, to the tabernacle or great brazenaltar, was Gibeon, and not Hebron, as Josephus's copyhad it, yet is Josephus's copy confirmed by the vow ofAbsalom, which was according to our common copies, tobe performed not at Gibeon, but at Hebron, 2 Sam. xv.7, 12. And since Gibeah or Gibeon denotes a hill or anelevation, as Josephus elsewhere truly observes, VI. 3.the original text perhaps meant an elevated place at He­bron. See the very same difference between Gibeon inour copies, Jeremiah xli. 12. and Hebron in Josephus's,x. 9. which probably requires the very same reconcilia­tion also.