OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 83 enemy ? Can a citizen ? To the enemy you engagednothing. You ordered no citizen to engage on yonrbehalf. You are therefore no way concerned, eitherwith us, to whom you gave no commission ; nor withthe Samnites, with whom you transacted no business.We are sureties to the Samnites ; debtors, whose abili­ties are sufficiently extensive over that which is ourown, over that which we can offer—our bodies and ourminds. On these let them exercise their cruelty;against these let them whet their resentment and theirswords. As to what relates to the tribunes, you willconsider whether the delivering them up can be imme­diately effected, or if it must be deferred to anotherday. Meanwhile let us, Titus Veturius, and the restconcerned, offer our worthless persons as atonementsfor the non-performanco of our engagements, and byour sufferings liberate the Roman armies.' 10. These arguments, and still more, the person bywhom they were delivered, powerfully affected the se­nators ; as they did likewise every one, not exceptingeven the tribunes of the commons, who declared thatthey would be directed by the senate. They then in­stantly resigned their office, and were delivered toge­ther with the rest to the heralds to be conducted toCaudium. On passing this decree of senate, it seemedas if some new light had shone on the state: Postu-mius was in every mouth : they extolled him to hea­ven ; and pronounced him to have equalled in gloryeven the consul Publins Decius, who devoted him­self. * Through his counsel and exertions,' they said,' the republic had raised up its head, after being sunkin an ignominious peace. He now offered himself tothe enemy's rage, and to torments, and was sufferingin atonement for the Roman people.' All turned theirthoughts towards arms and war, and the general crywas, ' When shall we be permitted with arms in ourhands to meet the Samnites?' While the state glowedwith resentment and rancor, the levies were composedalmost intirely of volunteers. Legions, composed ofthe former soldiers, were quickly formed, and an army