OCR Output UXAMABARCA.UXKLLODUNUM. 1331 :be road from Asturica to CaesaraugusU, 50 mile*K. of Numantia, and in the neighbourhood of Ciu-lia (/<«. Ant. p. 441), where, however, the more■went editions read Yasama. (I'lin. iii. 3. s. 4;Klor. iii. 22; Sil. Ital.iii.384.) It ia called Uxumao the Geogr. Kav. (iv. 43); and according to Ukertu. pt. i. p. 455), it probably the "AJ« .»•«»• of Appianvi. 47). Now 0,ma. [T. H. D.) UXAMABARCA i o <••"««?'«<». 1'tol. ii. 6. §>3), a town of the Aulrignnes in Hispania Tarraco-ana, (Moral, /mcr. p. 1095. 8.) Ukert (ii. pt. i. p.1*6) identifies it with Otma in Bitcaya. [T. H. I). ] UXAN US INSULA, for so the name should berad in the Maritime Itin., is I liny's Axantos (iv.Ill), an island off the Atlantic coast of Gallia.,'mntia ia Ouasant, or Uthant, as the English oftentrite it, a small island belouging to the depurt-it-nt of Finittrre, and nearly in tlie latitude offcest [G. L.] UXELLA (O0(«XAa, Ptol. ii. 3. § 10), calledy the Geogr. Kav. (v. 30) Uxeli, a city of thetumnonii in Britannia Romana. Camden (p. 18)lentioee it with the little town of Liutiriii.nl in"urnwali ; whilst Horsley (p. 378) and others take; to be Exeter. [T. H. D.] I'XELLODU'NUM, in Gallia. In B. c. 51 Drap­es a Senon and Lucterius a Cadurcan, who hadiven the Romans mach trouble, being pursued by!. Caninius Rebilos, one of Caesar's legates, took?fuge in Uxellodunum, a town of the CadurciB. G. viii. 32—44): Uxellodunum was in a posi-ixi naturally strong, protected by rocks so steephat an armed man could hardly climb np, even if•I resistance were made. A deep valley surroundedearly the whole elevation on which the town stood,nd a river flowed at the bottom of the valley. Thenerval where the river did not flow round theicp aides of this natural fortress was only 300 feet>'lr, and along this part ran the town wall. Close> the wall was a large spring, which supplied thei»ii during the siege, for the inhabitants could notpt down the rocks to the river for water without>k of thrir lives from the Romaji missies. Cani-ius began his bUxkade of Uxellodunum by makingirra camps on very high ground, with the intentionF gradually drawing a vallum from each camp, andgrounding the plaice. On the river side his campaere of coarse separated from the town by thei*p valley in which the river flowed; he may havelai.ted two camps here and one on the land side ofxellodunum. The townsmen remembering what had happened: Aleaia the year before, sent out Lucterius andrappee to bring supplies into the place. Lucteriusnl Urappea took all the fighting men for this pur-•e except 2000, and they collet led a large quali­ty of com; but aa Lucterius was attempting toirry it into the town by night, the Romans sur--ued him, and cut his men to pieces. The other• of the force which had gone out was with appea about 12 miles off. Caninius sent hisiialry and light German troops against Drappee surprise him, and he followed with a legion. H:siccesa was most complete. Drap]«s was takenlisasar and his force destroyed or captured. Ca­mus was now enabled to go on with his ciroum-dlation without fear of interruption from without, d C. Fabins arriving the next day with his troopsr:.. k tbe blockade of part of the town. Caesar bearing the news about Uxellodunum and• ■king to check all further risings in Gallia by one signal example more, hnrried to the place withall his cavalry, ordering C. Calenus and two legionsto follow him by regular marches. He found theplace abnt in, but it was well supplied with pro­visions, as tbe deserters told him; and there remainednothing to do but to cut off the townsmen from tbewater. By hia archers and slingers, and by his en­gines for discharging missiles (tormenta) placed oppo­site those parts of the town where the descent to theriver was easiest, he attempted to prevent the enemyfrom coming down to the river to get water. His nextoperation was to cat them off from the spring, andthis was tbe great operation of the siege on whichdepended the capture of the town. Caesar dealtwith his enemies as a doctor with a disease — hecut off the supplies. (Krontinus, Strat. iv. 7. 1.)He moved his vineae towards that part of the townwhere the spring lay under the wall, and this wasthe isthmus which connected the hill fort with theopen country. He also began to construct moundsof earth, while the townsmen from tbe higher groundannoyed the Romans with missiles. Still the Ro­mans pushed on their vineae and their earthworks,and at the same time began to form mines (cuniculi)to reach the source of water and draw it off. Amound of earth 9 feet high was constructed, and atower of ten stories was placed upon it, not highenough to be on a level with the top of the wall, buthigh enough to command the summit level of thespring. Thus they prevented the enemy fromreaching the spring, and a great number of cattle,horses, and men died of thirst. The townsmen nowtumbled down blazing barrels filled with fat, pitch,and chips of wood, and began a vigorous onset toprevent tbe Romans from quenching the flames; forthe burning materials being stopped in their descentby the vineae and mounds, set the Roman works onfire. On this Caesar ordered his men to scale theheights on all sides and to divert the defendantsfrom the land side by a feint of attacking the walls.This drew the enemy from the lire; anil all theirforce was employed in manning the walls. In themeantime the Romans put out the fire or cut itoff. The obstinate resistance of the enemy wasterminated by the spring being completely dried upby the diversion of the water through the subter­raneous passages which the Romans had constructed;and they surrendered after many of them had diedof thirst. To terrify the Galli by a signal example,Caesar cut off tbe hands of ull the lighting menwho remained alive. The attack and defence of Uxellodunnm containa full description of the site. This hill-fort wassurrounded by a river on all sides except one, andon this side also the approach to it was steep. Itis agreed that Uxellodunum was somewhere eitheron the Oltis {Lot) or on the Duranius (bordmjne).D'Anville places it at Pnech dlaoln, on a smallstream named the Tourmentr, which flows into theDordognt after passing lSiech dluulu. He wasinformed by some person acquainted with the localitythat the spring still exists, and we may assume thatto be true, for Caesar could not destroy the source:be only drew off the water, so that the hoiegedcould not get at it. D'Anville adds that what ap­peared to he the entrance of the place U called mthe country le portaii de A'omr. and that a hill w hichis close to the /WcA, is named B«l-Ct\*ttl. butthis distinguished geographer had no exact plan ofthe place, and had nut seen it. VYakkenaer (Geoy.df (iW«, i. p. 353) attiima that the plin of /W/i *0 2