OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. '257 listed by means of commissaries sent among the severalstates, to be conducted to Carthage, both as an addi­tion of strength and as hostages. 22. Judging also that Spain ought not to be neglected,in which opinion he was not the less confirmed by hav­ing been acquainted with the tour made through it bythe Roman ambassadors, for the purpose of engagingthe friendship of the chiefs, he allotted that provinceto Hasdrubal his brother, a man of talents and acti­vity ; and he formed his strength mostly of the troopsfrom Africa, giving him eleven thousand eight hundredand fifty African foot, with three hundred Ligurians,and five hundred Balearians. To these bodies of in­fantry were added four hundred and fifty horsemen ofthe Liby-Phoenicians, a race composed of a mixture ofPhoenicians with Africans ; of Numidians and Mauri-tanians, who inhabit the coast of the ocean, to thenumber of oue thousarid eight hundred ; a small bandof the Ilergetans, a Spanish nation, amounting to twohundred horsemen ; and, that he might not be desti­tute of any kind of force which might be useful inoperations on land, fourteen elephants. Also, for thedefence of the sea coast, because, as the Romans hadbeen formerly victorious at sea, it was probable thatthey would now likewise exert themselves in the sameline, a fleet was assigned him of fifty quinqueremes,two quadriremes, and five triremes; but of these onlythirty-two quinqueremes, and the five triremes, werefully equipped and manned with rowers. From Gadeshe returned to Carthage, the winter-quarters of thearmy. Then putting his troops in motion, he led themby the city of Etovissa to the Iberus and the sea coast.Here, as is said, he saw in his sleep a youth of divinefigure, who told him that he was sent by Jupiter toguide him into Italy, and bade him therefore to follow,and not turn his eyes to any side. Filled with terror,he followed at first without looking to either side, orbehind ; but afterwards, out of the curiosity natural tomankind, considering what that could be at which hewas forbidden to look back, he could no longer restrainuv. vol. ill. R