OCR Output 330 THK DECLINE AND FALL chap. with robbers *. The oppression of the good, and'the impunity of the wicked, equally contributed todiffuse through the island a spirit of discontent andrevolt; and every ambitious subject, every desperateexile, might entertain a reasonable hope of subvert­ing the weak and distracted government of Britain.The hostile tribes of the North, who detested thepride and power of the King of the World, suspendedtheir domestic feuds; and the Barbarians of theland and sea, the Scots, the Picts, and the Saxons,spread themselves, with rapid and irresistible fury,from the wall of Antoninus to the shores of Kent.Every production of art and nature, every object ofconvenience or luxury, which they were incapable ofcreating by labour, or procuring by trade, was accu­mulated in the rich and fruitful province of Britain.A philosopher may deplore the eternal discord of thehuman race, but he will confess, that the desire ofspoil is a more rational provocation than the vanityof conquest. From the age of Constantine to thatof the Plantagenets, this rapacious spirit continuedto instigate the poor and hardy Caledonians; but thesame people, whose generous humanity seems to in­spire the songs of Ossian, was disgraced by a savageignorance of the virtues of peace, and of the laws ofwar. Their southern neighbours have felt, and per­haps exaggerated, the cruel depredations of the Scotsand Picts; and a valiant tribe of Caledonia, theAttacotti f, the enemies, and afterwards the soldiers,of Valentinian, are accused, by an eye-witness, of de­lighting in the taste of human flesh. When theyhunted the woods for prey, it is said, that they at- • Libanius, Orat. Parentjc. xxxix. p. 264. This curious passage has escaped. the diligence of our British antiquaries. f Attacotti bellicosa horninum natio. Ammian. xxvii. 8. Camden (Introducep. clii.) has restored their true name in the text of Jerom. The bands of Atta­cotti, which Jerom had seen in Gaul, were' afterwards stationed in Italy and Illy-ricum (Notitia, S. viii. xxxix. xl.).