OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 251 Apulian districts. To relieve his hard-pressed native town,Judacilius appeared before Asculum with the Picentinelevy and attacked the besieging army, while at the sametime the garrison sallied forth and threw itself on the Romanlines. It is said that 75,000 Romans fought on this dayagainst 60,000 Italians. Victory remained with the Romans,but Judacilius succeeded in throwing himself with a part ofthe relieving army into the town. The siege resumed itscourse; it was protracted* by the strength of the place andthe desperate defence of the inhabitants, who fought witha recollection of the terrible declaration of war within itswalls. When Judacilius at length after a brave defence ofseveral months saw the day of capitulation approach, heordered the chiefs of that fraction of the citizens which wasfavourable to Rome to be put to death under torture, andthen died by his own hand. So the gates were opened, and and con-Roman executions were substituted for Italian; all officers ilu»r»d-and all the respectable citizens were executed, the rest weredriven forth to beggary, and all their property was confiscatedon account of the state. During the siege and after the fallof Asculum numerous Roman corps marched through theadjacent rebel districts, and induced one after another to Subjuga-submit. The Marrucini yielded, after Lucius Sulpicius had tion of thedefeated them decidedly at Teate (Chieti). The praetor Gaius j^^TCosconius penetrated into Apulia, took Salapia and Cannae, siansand besieged Canusium. A Samnite corps under MariusEgnatius came to the help of the unwarlike region and actuallydrove back the Romans, but the Roman general succeeded indefeating it at the passage of the Aufidus; Egnatius fell andthe rest of the army had to seek shelter behind the walls ofCanusium. The Romans again advanced as far as Venusiaand Rubi, and became masters of all Apulia. Along theFucine lake also and at the Majella mountains—the chiefseats of the insurrection—the Romans restored their ascen­dancy; the Marsians succumbed to Strabo's lieutenants,Quintus Metellus Pius and Gaius Cinna, the Vestinians andPaelignians in the following year (666) to Strabo himself; 88.Italia the capital of the insurgents became once more the * Leaden bullets with the name of the legion which threw them, and some­times with curses against the " runaway slaves"—and accordingly Roman—orwith the inscription "hit the' Picentes" or "hit Pompeius "—the formerRoman, the latter Italian—are even now sometimes found, belonging to thatperiod, in the region of Ascoli.