OCR Output AN. 461 149.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. And this was what Onias wrote to kingPtolemy; whose piety and that of his sisterand wife Cleopatra will appear, by that epis­tle which they wrote in answer to it. Forthey laid the blame and the transgression ofthe Jaw upon the head of Onias. And thiswas their reply: "King Ptolemy and queenCleopatra, to Onias send greeting. We haveread thy petition; wherein thou desirest per­mission to purge that temple which is fallendown at Leontopolis in the Nomus of Helio­polis, and which is named from the countryBubastis. On which account we cannot butwonder that it should be pleasing to God tohave a temple erected in a place so unclean,and so full of sacred animals. But sincethou sayest that Isaiah the prophet foretoldthis long ago; we give thee leave to do it;if it may be done according to your law;and so that we may not appear to have atall offended God herein." Accordingly Onias took the place; andbuilt a temple, and an altar to God; like in­deed to that in Jerusalem, but smaller, andpoorer. 1 do not think it proper for me nowto describe its dimensions, or its vessels:which have been already described in myseventh book of The Wars of the Jews.*However, Onias found other Jews also liketo himself, together with priests and Levitesthat there performed divine service. Now it came to pass that the AlexandrianJews, and those Samaritans who payed theirworship to the temple that was built in thedays of Alexander at mount Gerizzim, didnow make a sedition one against another, anddisputed about their temples before Ptolemyhimself: the Jews saying, that, according to the laws of Moses, the temple was to be builtat Jerusalem: and the Samaritans saying thatit was to be built at Gerizzim. They desiredtherefore that the king would sit with hisfriends, and hear the debates about thesematters; and punish those with death whowere baffled. Now Sabbeus and Theodosiusmanaged the argument of the Samaritans;and Andronicus, the son of Messalamus,for the people of Jerusalem. And they tookan oath by God and the king to make theirdemonstrations according to the law. Andthey desired of Ptolemy, that whosoever heshould find that transgressed what they hadsworn to, he would put him to death. Ac­cordingly the king took several of his friendsinto the council, and sat down in order tohear what the pleaders said. Now the Jewsthat were at Alexandria were in great con­cern for those men, whose lot it was to con­tend for the temple at Jerusalem. For theytook it very ill that any should pretend totake away the reputation of that temple,which was so ancient, and so celebrated,all over the habitable earth. Now whenSabbeus and Theodosius had given leave toAndronicus to speak first, he began to demon­strate out of the law, and out of the succes­sions of the high-priests, how they every onein succession from his father had received j~that dignity, and ruled over the temple; andhow all the kings of Asia had honoured thattemple with their donations, and with themost splendid gifts. But as for that at Ge­rizzim, he made no account of it, nor re­garded it as if it had ever had a being. Bythis speech, and other arguments, Andronicuspersuaded the king to ^determine, that the phecy contained many other predictions relating to thisplace, besides the words by him recited, it is highly pro­bable that these were especially meant by him; and thatone main reason why he applied this prediction to him­self, and to his prefecture of Heliopolis, which DeanPrideaux well proves was in that part of Egypt; andwhy he chose to build in that prefecture of Heliopolis,though otherwise an improper place, was, that he hadthe same authority for building this temple in his ownprefecture of Heliopolis as in Egypt. Dean Prideauxhas much difficulty to avoid seeing this corruption of theHebrew. But it being in support of his own opinionabout this temple, he durst not see it: and indeed hereasons here in the most injudicious manner. See himat the year 149. * See War of the Jews, Book VII. chap. 10. t A very unfair disputation this! while the Jewishdisputant, knowing that he could not properly prove out of the Pentateuch, that the place which the Lord theirGod should choose to place his name there, so often re­ferred to in the book of Deuteronomy, was Jerusalemany more than Gerizzim: that being not determined tillthe days of David: see VII. 13. proves only what theSamaritans did not deny, that the temple at Jerusalemwas much more ancient, and much more celebrated andhonoured than that at Gerizzim: which was nothing to thepresent purpose. The whole evidence, by the very oathsof both parties being obliged to be confined to the law ofMoses, or to the Pentateuch alone. However, worldlypolicy, and interest, and the multitude prevailing, thecourt gave sentence, as usual, on the stronger side; andSabbeus and Theodosius, the Samaritan disputants, weremartyred: and this, so far as appears, without any directhearing at all. Which is like the usual practice of suchpolitical courts about matters of religion. Our copiessay, that the body of the Jews were in great concern 4 E 2