OCR Output MEDULLUS. so? MEGALOPOLIS. it»lf. (Gell, Top. of Rome, pp. 312, 319; Nibby,Mtinrni, vol u. pp. 293, 327; Abeken, M. I.p. 78.) [E. H. B.] MEDULLUS (Flor. iv. 12; Mednllium, Ores. vi.21), a mountain in Hispania Tarraconensis, risingabove the river Minius; perhaps the Sierra de Ma-meda, npon the river Sil, a tributary of the Mino. MEDUS (4 Mqios, Strab. iv. p. 729), a river ofancient Persia, which, according to Strabo, aftertaking its source in Media, flowed into the Araxes,which waters the plain of Persepolis. Curtius,however, in speaking of these rivers, makes theAraxes, which, was the greater stream, flow into theMedus, which was the less (v. 4. § 7). There canbe no doubt, however, that Strabo is more correctthan Curtius. The Medus is the small stream(now called the Pidtain) which flows past theremains of Pasargadae, Istakr. and Persepolis, andfalls into the Araxes (Kur or Bend-amir) a fewmiles below the last ruins. The nnited stream ofthe two rivers terminates in lake Bakhiegdn, about40 miles from Persepolis. (Fergusson, Nmev. andPenrp. p. 90.) [V.] MEGABAKI (M«7afiaooi, Strab. xvii. pp. 786,819; MtyiSaptoi, Ptol. iv. 7. § 30; Megabarri,Plin. vL 30. ft. 35), a people of Aethiopia, nearMen*, also called Adibari according to some autho­rities (Plin. /. e.), and possessing a town of Apollo.Their name appears to survive in the tribe of theMekaberab near Schendg. (flitter, Krdkunde, vol. i.p. 663; Forbiger, vol. ii. p. 811.) MEGA'LIA. (Megaris.] MEGALO'POLIS (i Mf/dAn mfAij or KtyaK6-woAu: Etk. MryoAoiroAfrns: Smdnu), the "GreatCity," one of the most recent of the Grecian cities,and the later capital of Arcadia, was founded in B. c.370. a few months after the battle of Leuctra, andwas finished in the course of three years. (Pans,viii. 27. § 1; Diod. xv. 52, 62, 72.) Arcadia hadbwn previously divided into a number of independentpolitical communities; and it had always been theobject of Sparta to maintain them in their isolatedcondition, that she might the more easily exercise su­premacy over them. But after the fatal blow, whichthe Spartans had received at the battle of Leuctra,several of the leading Arcadians, supported by Epa-minondas, who was the soul of toe undertaking,resolved to found a new city, which should becomethe capital of an Arcadian confederation. Ten oecistswere appointed to carry this resolution into effect,of whom two were from Tegea, two from Mantineia.two from Cleitor, two from the district of Maenalus,and two from that of Parrhasia. The site, whichthey chose, was an extensive plain upon the north­west frontier of Laconia; and the city was builtupon the river Helisson, a tributary of the Alpheius.Forty distinct Arcadian townships were either per­suaded or compelled to contribute their inhabitantsto form the new state. (Paus. viii. 27; Diod. xv.94.) The inhabitants were furnished from sevenstates: 10 from Maenalus, 8 from the Parrhasii,3 from Orchomenus, 4 from Cynuria, 6 from Eu-tmk, 3 from Tripolis, and probably 6 (thoughPaasania* mentions the names of only 5) fromAifYtii. The city was 50 stadia (more than5 miles and a half) in circumference (Polyb. ix. 21);while the territory assigned to it was more extensivethan that of any other Arcadian state, extendingnorthwards about 23 English miles from the city,being branded on the east by the territories ofTegea, Mantineia, Orchomenus. and Caphyae, and on the west by those of Messene, Phigulia, and He-raea. (On the foundation of Megalopolis, see Clin­ton, Fait. Hell. vol. ii. p. 418; Thirlwall, Hut. ofGreece, vol. v. p. 85, seq.; Grote, Hist, of Greecevol. x. p. 306, scq.) Megalopolis was the place of meeting of theArcadian confederation which was now formed. Thecouncil of the confederation was called the TenThousand (of Mupioi), and consisted of representa­tives of all the Arcadian states, except Orchomenusand Heraea. The number must be regarded as anindefinite one; and it is probable that all the citi­zens of the separate states had the right of attendingthe meetings. (Xen. Hell. vi. 5. § 6, vii. 1. § 38;Diod. xv. 59; Paus. viii. 32. § 1; Dcm. de Pals.Leg. p. 344.) A body of troops, called Epariti('ETdorroi), was raised for the service of the confe­deration; their number was 5000 (Xen. Hell. vii. 4.§ 34, vii. 5. § 3; Diod. xi. 62, 67.) The new con­federation succeeded for a time in giving a certaindegree of unity of sentiment and action to the Arca­dians; but its influence gradually declined; and thecity of Megalopolis never attained that importancewhich its founders had anticipated, and which hadcaused it to be laid out on a scale too large for thethe population collected within its walls. (Polybii. 55.) Upon the decline of the Theban power, the Spar­tans directed their attacks against Megalopolis; butthese were easily repelled; and upon the rise of theMacedonian power the Megalopolitans formed a closealliance with Philip, and subsequently with Alex­ander, as their best security agaimt their formidableneighbour. After the death of Alexander theycontinued faithful to the Macedonian alliance, andrefused to join the other Greeks against Antipater.In the contest between Polysperchon and Cassander,Megalopolis espoused the side of the latter; in conse­quence of which Polysperchon laid siege to the cityin b. c. 318. It was, however, bravely defended byits inhabitants, under an officer named Damis; andthough Polysperchon succeeded in making a breachin its walls, he was finally repulsed with loss. (Diod.xviii. 70, 71.) We learn from Diodorus {I. c.) thatthe territory of Megalopolis possessed at this time15,000 men capable of bearing arms, which im­plies a population of about 65,000 souls. Afterthis time Megalopolis was governed by tyrants, ofwhom the first was Aristodemus, a Phigalian bybirth, who, on account of his good qualities, wascalled XpTio-ro'i. During his reign the Spartans,under their king Acrotatus, the son of Areus, andgrandson of Cleonymus II., attacked Megalopolis,but were defeated, and Acrotatus was slain. (Paus.viii. 27. § 11, who erroneously calls Acrotatus theson of Cleonymus.) Two generations later Lydiades,a native of Megalopolis, became tyrant of the city,but he voluntarily resigned his power in n. c. 232,and united Megalopolis to the Achaean League.(Paus. viii. 27. § 12, seq.; Polyb. ii. 44.) In ii c.222, Clcomencs HI. surprised Megalopolis; thegreater part of the inhabitants succeeded in makingtheir escape to Messene; but, after plundering thecity, he laid the greater part of it in ruins. (Pans,viii. 27. § 15, seq.; Polyb. ii. 55; Plut. Philop. 5,Cleom. 25.) Soon after the defeat of Cleomenes atthe battle of Sellasia (b. c. 221), the Megalopolitansbegan to rebuild their city; but a dispute aroseamong them respecting its size. One party wishedthe compass of the walls to be contracted, that theymight be the more easily defended; and the other x 2