OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 465 the history of the states of the Mediterranean resolving itselfinto the hegemony of Roman power and Greek culture.Thus Polybius became the first Greek of note, who embracedwith serious conviction the comprehensive view of the Sci-pionic circle, and recognized the ascendancy of Hellas in thesphere of intellect and that of Rome in the sphere of politicsas facts, regarding which history had given her final decision,and to which people on both sides were entitled and boundto submit. In this spirit he acted as a practical statesman,and wrote his history. If in his youth he had done homageto the honourable but impracticable local patriotism of theAchaeans, during his later years, with a clear discernment ofinevitable necessity, he. advocated in the community to whichhe belonged the policy of the closest adherence to Rome.It was a policy in the highest degree judicious and beyonddoubt well-intentioned, but it was far from being high-spiritedor proud. Nor was Polybius able wholly to disengage himselffrom the vanity and paltriness of the Hellenic statesmanshipof the time. He was hardly released from exile, when heproposed to the senate that it should formally secure to thereleased their former rank in their several homes; where­upon Cato aptly remarked, that that looked to him as ifUlysses were to return to the cave of Polyphemus to requestfrom the giant his hat and girdle. He often availed himselfof his relations with the great men in Rome to benefit hiscountrymen; but the way in which he submitted to, andboasted of, the illustrious protection somewhat approachesfawning servility. His literary activity breathes throughoutthe same spirit as his practical action. It was the task ofhis life to write the history of the union of the Mediterraneanstates under the hegemony of Rome. From the first Punicwar down to the destruction of Carthage and Corinth hiswork embraces the fortunes of all the civilized states,—namely Greece, Macedonia, Asia Minor, Syria, Egypt,Carthage, and Italy—and exhibits in causal connection themode in which they came under the Roman protectorate; inso far he describes it as his object to demonstrate the fitnessand reasonableness of the Roman hegemony. In design asin execution, this history stands in clear and distinct con­trast with the contemporary Roman as well as with thecontemporary Greek historiography. In Rome history stillremained wholly at the stage of chronicle; there existedperhaps important historical materials, but what was called TOL. III. 2 H r