OCR Output xx'ti NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER. rant by their railleries, and perhaps by their tu­mults. [36] Dion, 1. lxxvii.p. 1296. [37] Dion. l. lxxvi p. 1284. Mr. Wotton (Hist,-of Rome, p. 330) suspects that this maxim was in-rented by Caracalla himself and attributed to hisfather. {38] Dion (1. Ixxviii. p. 13.13.) informs us thatthe extraordinary gifts of Caracalla to the armyamounted annually to seventy milions of drachma:(about two millions -three hundred and fifty thou­sand pounds}. There is .another passage in Dion,concerning the military pay, infinitely curious;were it not obscure, imperfect, and probably cor­rupt. The best fense seems to be, that the Præ­torian guards received twelve hundred and fiftydrachma: (fort-y pounds) a year. (Dion, 1. Ixxvii.p. 1307 ) Under the reign of Augustus, they werepaid at the rate of two drachmæ, or denarii, perday-, 720a year (Tacit Annal. i. 17.). Domitian,who increased the soldier's pay one fourth, mullhave raised the Prætorians to 960 drachmæ (Gro-novius de Pecunia Veteri, 1. iii. c. 2.). These suecostive augmentations ruined the empire, for withthe soldier's pay, their numbers too were increased."We have seen the Prætorians alone increased from10,000 to 50,000 men. [39] Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1312. Herodian, 1. iv.p. 168. [40] The fondness of Caracalla for the nameand ensigns of Alexander, is still preserved on themedals of that emperor. See Spanheim, de UfuNumifmatum. Dissertat. xii. Herodian (1. iv.p. 154.) had seen very ridiculous pictures, in whicha figure was drawn, with one side of the face likeAlexander, and the other like Caracalla. [41] Herodian, 1. iv. p. 169. Hist. August,p. 94. [42] Dion, 1. Ixxxvin. p. 13C0. Elagabalus re­proached his predecessor, with daring to seat him­self on the throne; though, as Prætorian præfect,he could not have been admitted into the senateafter the voice of the cryer had cleared the house.The personal favour of Piautianus and Sejanus had broke through the established rule. They rose in­deed from the equestrian order ; but they preservedthe prefecture with the rank of senator, and evenwith the consulship. [43J He was a native of Cæsarea, in Numidia,and began his fortune by serving in the household ofPlautian, from whose ruin he narrowly escaped.His enemies asserted, that he was born a slave, andhad exercised, among other infamous professions,that of Gladiator. The fashion of aspersing thebirth and condition of an adversary, seems to havelasted from the time of the Greek orators, to thelearned grammarians of the last age. [44] Both Dion and Herodian speak of the vir­tues and vices of Macrinus, with candour and impar­tiality; but the author of his life, in the AugustasHistory, seems to have implicitly copied some ofthe venal writers, employed by Elagabalus, toblacken the memory of his predecessor. [4;] Dion, 1. Ixxxiii. p. 1336. The sense ofthe author is as clear as the intention of the em­peror, but M. Wotton has mistaken both, by under­standing the distinction, not of veteran and re­cruits, but of old and new legions. History ofRome, p. 347- [46] Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1330. The abridge­ment of Xiphilin, though less particular, is in thisplace clearer than the original. [47] According to Lampridius (Hist. August, p.135 ) Alexander Severus lived twenty-nine years,three months, and seven days. As he was killedMarch 19, 231;, he was born December 12, 20$,and was consequently about this time thirteenyears old, as his elder cousin might be about seven­teen This computation suits much better thehistory of the young princes than that, of Herodian,(1. v. p. 181.) who represents them as three yearsyounger ; whilst, by an opposite error of chronology,he lengthens the reign of Elagabalus two years be­yond its real duration. For the particulars of theconspiracy, see Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1339. Hero­dian, 1. v. p. 184. [48] By a most dangerous proclamation of thepretended Antoninus, every soldier who brought in hit