OCR Output 1W LIMNAE. LIMONUM. this point it proceeds in a northern direction, underthe name of Teufelshecke (the Devil's Hedge), asfar as Lorch, and is more or less interrupted. FromLorch onwards it does not present a continuous tine,its course be inn effaced in many parts; but where itis visible it generally consists of a mound of between6 and 7 feet in breadth, sometimes rising to theheight of 10 feet; and oti its eastern side there runsalong it a ditch or trench, which is called by thepeople the SchiceinegroJ>en, perhaps a corruption ofSueeengroben (Ditch of the Suevi). In this statethe limes runs as far as the OJentcabl, from whichpoint it changes its character altogether, for it con­sists of a succession of forts, which were originallyconnected by palisades. (Spirt. fftulr. 12.) Re­mains of these forts (caste!la) are seen in many parts.At Obernhnrg this line of fortifications ceases, asthe river Afuin in its northern course afforded suf­ficient protection. A little to the e:ist of Aschaffen-burg, where the Main takes a western direction, thefortifications recommence, but at first the traces arenot continuous, nntil some miles north of Nidda itreappears as a continuous mound raised on a founda­tion of stones. This hist part is now known by thename of the Pfahlgrab^n, and its remains in someparts rise to a height of from 10 to 12 feet. It canbo distinctly traced as far as Jiheittftreitbach, in theneighbourhood of Bonn, where every trace of anorthern continuali -n di*appears behind the Sieben-grbirge. It is probable, however, that it was con­tinued at least as far as Cologne. t where Tiberiushad commenced the construc;it»n of a limes. (Tac.Ann. i. 50.) Some have supjiosed that it extendedeven further north, as far as the river JAppe andthe Caesia forest; but from Tacitus (6Y/vm. 32) itseems clear that it terminated near the river Sieg. This enormous line of fortification was the workof several generations, and the parts which were liratbuilt appear to have been those constructed byDrusus in Mount Tauuus. (Tar, Ann. i. 56; Di'-nCass. liv. 33.) Hut Tiberius and the other em­perors of the first century constructed the greaterpart of it, and more especially Trajan and Hadrian.(Veil. Pat.iL 120; Dion Cass. lvi. 15; Eutrop. viii.2; Spart. iladr. 12.) Until the reign of AlexanderSeverus these limites appear to have effectually pro­tected the IVcuinates agri; but after that time theAlemanni frequently broke through the fortifications.(J. Capitol. Maximin. 13; Flat. Vopi>c. Prob. 13.)His successors, Posthumus, Lollianus, and Probus,exerted themselves to repair the breaches; jet afterthe death of Probus, it became impossible to preventthe northern barbarians from breaking through thefortifications; and about the end of the third cen­tury the Hot nans for ever lo->t iheir pon.se vs ions inGermany south of the limes. ((Jump. Wilhelm,Gcrmanien, p. 290, &c; Buchner, Jieise auf dtrTeufelsmauer, Regensburg, 1820.) [L.S.] LIMNAK (AWai), a place on the frontiers ofMessenia and Laconia, containing a temple of Arte*mis Limnatis, used jointly by the Messenians andLacedaemonians. An outrage offered by the Mc*se-niana to some Lacedaemonian virgins at the festivalof this goddess is taid to have been the cause of theFirst Mea-neuian War. (Sirab. vi. p. 257, viii.p. 3G2; Paus. hi. 2. § 6, iv. 31. § 3.) The pos­session of this temple, and of the Agcr Den I he li at is,the district in which it was situated, was a frequentaub ect of the dispute be'ween the Lacedaemoniansand Meaneniana down to Uie time of the Koman em­perors. (Tac Ann. iv. 43.) Two ruina of the temple of Artemis Limnatis have been discovered byI Joss, near the church of Panaghia BolimniittttMa. tnthe village of BoUmnos; but the tojiography of tin*district requires a more particular description, ai»iwill be foutid under Mkssknia. LIMNAE. [Sparta.] LIMNAKA. 1. (AiMvaia: Eth. Auamubs : Aer-ttwartf), a town in Acaniania at the SE. corner *dthe Ambraciot gulf, on the very frontier of Acar-nania towards Argos. There has been a di>pot*about its site, but the ruin-* at Kervamni are pro­bacy the remains of Liinnaea : some modern writerswould place it more to the W., eilJier at Lutruki, oral Ruga. The former supposition, however, ap­pears to be the more correct, since we learn fromThucydides that Limnaca lay on the mad fromAiubracia and Argos Amphilochicuin to Stratus.which could not have been the case if Limuaea layto the W. of Kertasard. Philip III., king «»f Ma­cedonia, disembarked at Limnaca, when about toinvade Aetolia. There is a marsh near AVrauona,two miles in length, from which Limnaea appears tohave derived its name. (Time iL 80, iii. 105; PoLv. 5 ; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 243, sea..) 2. A town of Histiaeotis in The>saly, taken bythe liomahs in n. c. 191, was probably on the site ofKortikhi. (Liv. xxxvi. 13; Leake, Northern Greece,vol. iv. p. 512.) LIMXUS, an island off the coast of Ireland, men­tioned by Ptolemy (ii. 2), as lying to the *-a>l ofIreland, and being uninhabited. Pliny aU<» menti-nuit (iv. 30). It is probably Jxunbay Island. H"W-ever, the +\fonumenta Britatmica not only sugi;f>ufor Limnos (Ptolemy's Liumus) the modern uain«"-tof Lambay, Lymen, and Jiani*iyy but they al»o dis­tinguish it from Limmts (Pliny's Litmus) whit athey make /toUry. [K. G. L] LIMONK. [Lkimonk.] LI'MON'UM or LEMOXL'M (Afuoror. PtoL ii 7.i § 6: Poitiers), the capital of the Pk tones or Pictar.,1 one of the Celtic nations south of the Autre. Thename is first mentioned in the eighth b«jk of theGallic war (viii. 2G. 27.). At a later time, after lbsfashion of many other capital towns in Gallia, it tookthe name of the people, Pictavi, whence cornea themodern name Poitiers. (Ammianus Marvel linua, xv.11.) Though I)e Valoi* and others did not admitLiinonuin to be Poitiers, and fixed Augustorilum toecapital of the I^emoviees hi Limoges, the evidence i«"the roads shows that Limonum mu»t be VWicra.Magnon, a writer of the 9th ceutury, calls Poitiers bythe name of Pietarus Limonum; and uurnptmnsalso found at Poitiers confirm the oilier evidence.There is a place called Yieux Poitiers, more than 15Roman miles north of /Wmxs, but though it ecru*to have been an old town, it is quite a different placefrom the Poitiers which is the kite of Limonum. The conquest of the Pictavi cost the Romans Utiletrouble, we may suppose, for little is said of tana.In B.C. 51, C. Caninius, a legatus of Caesar, came uthe relief of Duratius, a Gaul and a hV>m.in ally, wfowas blockaded in Limonum by liumnarua, the rnwfof the A tales. The siege was raised, and IfcunnarusI was subsequently defeated. The remains of the huge amphitheatre of Limo­num are described by M. Dufour, in bis //weotnr as\ PoiUm (quoted in the Guide dm l'oy<y<*r, tnri ltnhard el Ilocquart). M. I>ufour found the walls, of the amphitheatre three feet and a hJl bW..w i. «present level of the soil. The walls are seven KrrttchI feet lluck. It is estimated thai this ampoitneaba