OCR Output C. III.] TERRIBLE FAMINE. 261 life. Nor would men believe that those who were dying hadno food, but the robbers would search them when they wereexpiring, lest any one should have concealed food in theirbosoms, and counterfeited dying: nay, these robbers gapedfor want, and ran about stumbling and staggering along likemad dogs, and reeling against the doors of the houses likedrunken men ; they would also, in the great distress theywere in, rush into the very same houses two or three times inone and the same day. Moreover, their hunger was so in­tolerable, that it obliged them to chew every thing, while theygathered such things as the most sordid animals would nottouch, and endured to eat them; nor did they, at length, ab­stain from girdles and shoes, and the very leather which be­longed to their shields they pulled off and gnawed: the verywisps of old hay became food to some, and some gathered upfibres, and sold a very small weight of them for four Attic[drachmae.] But why do I describe the shameless impudencethat the famine brought on men in their eating inanimatethings ? while I am going to relate a matter of fact, the liketo which no history relates,1 either among the Greeks or bar­barians. It is horrible to speak of it, and incredible whenheard. I had, indeed, willingly omitted this calamity of ours,that I might not seem to deliver what is so portentous toposterity, but that I have innumerable witnesses to it in my 1 What Josephus observes here, that no parallel examples had been re­corded before this time of such sieges, wherein mothers were forced byextremity of famine to cat their own children, as had been threatened to theJews, in the law of Moses, upon obstinate disobedience, and more than oncefulfilled (see my Boyle's Lectures, p. 210-214,) is by Dr. Hudson supposedto have had two or three parallel examples in later ages. Ho might havehad more examples, I suppose, of persons on shipboard, or in a desert island,casting lots for each other's bodies. But all this was only in cases wherethey knew of no possible way to avoid death themselves but by killing andeating others. Whether such examples come up to the present case may bodoubted. The Romans were not only willing but very desirous to grantthose Jews in Jerusalem both their lives and their liberties, and to Eave boththeir city and their temple. But the zealots, the robbers, and the seditious,would hearken to no terms of submission. They voluntarily chose to reducethe citizens to that extremity, ns to force mothers to this unnatural barbarity,which in all its circumstances has not, 1 still suppose, been hitherto paralleled»mong the rest of mankind.