OCR Output 226 TITUS LIVIUS' Book III. might soon arrive according to concert, followed by thoseof the /Equi and Volsci, the eternal enemies of Rome;who would not come to ravage the country as formerly,but to take possession of a city, already half taken.Among so many causes of distrust, their principal terrorwas with respect to the slaves, no man knowing but hehad an enemy in his house, in whom they neither couldsafely contide, having no assurance of their fidelity, norseem to distrust, for fear of making them enemies. Suchwas their embarrassment, that they did not imagine thata thorough reconciliation between the orders, would besufficient to save the state. However, among all the ca­lamities that threatened them, they had not the least ap­prehension of danger from the people or their magis­trates. Their domestic dissensions they considered asevils of a gentle kind, being ever the consequences of.freedom from all other calamities, and for the presentseemed to be absorbed in this foreign alarm. However,it was this that bore heaviest upon them, when totter­ing this under the pressure of other troubles. Thephrenzy of the tribunes rose so high, that they insistedthe war was a mere bugbear,-'—that the capitol had beenseized with no other view than to make them forget thebill: but were it once passed, they would see those cli­ents and creatures of the Patricians, finding all theirriotous exertions to obstruct it ineffectual, steal away hias great silence as they entered. Then calling the peo­ple from their arms, they held an assembly to pass thelaw. In the mean time, the consuls convened the senate,more afraid of the tribunes than of the enemy, who badalarmed them in the night. CHAP. XVH. Animated speech of Valerius. Obstinacy of the Tribunes. VA' HEN word was brought that the people had laiddown their arms, and quitted their posts, Publius Vale­rius, leaving his colleague to keep the senate together,left the senate-house in a great hurry, and flew to thetemple to the tribunes. "What is the meaning of this,"said he,) tribunes? Will nothing less serve you than