OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 381 CHAP. XL. Conquest of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, by the Saracens.—Succession and Character of the Emperors of Constan­tinople, from Heraclius to Leo the Philosopher.—TwoSiegesqf Constantinople by the Saracens.— Their Conquestsof Africa and Spain.—Invasion of France, and Defeat byCharles Mattel.—-Exarchate of Ravenna conquered by theLombards.— Their Kingdom subdued by Charlemagne.—His Coronation, and Separation of Italy from the Greeks—War with Harun al Rashid. Saracens subdue Creteand Sicily, attack Rome, and are repulsed by Pope Leo.—First Conquest ofRari by the Emperor Basil. When the emperor Heraclius returned in triumph chap-from the Persian war, he entertained at Emesa one XL"of the ambassadors of Mahomet *, who invited the • The history of Arabia, and of Mahomet and his successors, is detailed withsuch circumstantial minuteness by Mr. Gibbon, and he enters so largely into thenature and tenets of the Mahometan religion, that almost a whole volume of thehistory is occupied with this subject. The intelligent reader, who notices the in­defatigable zeal with which our author endeavours to point out the superiority ofthe Moslems above the Christians, will be at no loss to discover the reason of hisexerting the full powers of his pen, on a subject of so peculiar a nature. The history of the Christian church docs not form a part of the present pub.lication, and as the religious systems of the different nations which surrounded theempire are equally excluded, I shall not follow the historian in those parts ofhis work, in which he enlarges on the doctrine of the Koran. With respect to the life and character of Mahomet, I am persuaded that noabridgment would be satisfactory. His history should be fully and completelydetailed, if it were at all introduced; and the writer who entered on the taskshould possess the talents and the principles Which directed the pen of the authorof the celebrated Bampton Lectures. I therefore request my readers in this instance, as in the rest of the presentpublication, to remember that it is the history of the Decline and Fall of the Ro­man Empire that is now laid before them. With the wars of the successors of Mahomet, we are indeed deeply interested;and I hope that I have not neglected any of those parts of the great work of our au­thor, in which the Greek empire is engaged: not but it is with the progress of thearms, and not with the religious tenets of the Moslems, that our history is prin­cipally concerned. Instead, therefore, of withdrawing the attention of the readerfrom the Roman world, so completely, and for so long a period, as Mr. Gibbonhas done, I shall continue the narrative without interruption, inserting in theirproper place, and proper order of time, the events by which the empire was gra­dually shaken, and at length finally destroyed.