OCR Output 970 SESTUS. SETAE. SESTUS (2no*Tor: Eth. ^ttios), the principaltown of the Thracian Chersonesus, ar.d opposite toAbydus,its distance from which is variously stated byancient writers, probably because their measurementswere made in different ways ; some speaking of themere breadth of tlie Hellespont where it is narrowest;others of the distance from one city to the other;which, again, might be reckoned either as an imagi­nary straight line, or as the space traversed bya vessel in crossing from either side to the other,and this, owing to the current, depended to someextent upon which shore was the starting point.Strabo (xiii. p. 591) states that tlie strait is 7stadia across near Abydus; but that from theharbour of Abydus to that of Sestus, the distance is30 stadia.* (On this point the following referencesmav be consulted: Herod, vii. 34; Xen. Hell. iv. 8.5; 'Polyb. xvi. 29; Seyl. p. 28; Plin. iv. U, s. 18.Ukert (iii. 2. § 137, note 41) lias collected the vari­ous statements made by the moderns respecting thissubject.) Owing to its position, Sestus was for a long periodthe usual point of departure for those crossing overfrom Europe to Asia; but subsequently the Romansselected Callipolts as the harbour for that purpose,and thus, no doubt, hastened the decay of Sestus,which, though never a very large town, was in earliertimes a place of great importance. According toTheopompua («/>. Strab. I. a), it was a well-fortifiedtown, and connected with its port by a wall 200 feetin length ((tk«Ac( Scn-Aefyy). Dercyllidas, also, ina speech attributed to him by XenOpboQ {Hell. iv.8. 1$ 5), describes it as extremely strong. Sestus derives its chief celebrity from two circum­stances,— the one poetical the other historical. Theformer is its connection with the romantic story ofHero and Leander, too well known to render it neces­sary to do more than merely refer to it in this place(Ov. Her. xviii. 127; Stat! Silt: i. 3. 27, &c.)i thelatter is the formation (b. C. 480) of the bridge ofboats acro>s the Hellespont, for the passaue of thearmy of Xerxes into Europe; the western end ofwhich bridge was a little to the south of Sestus(Herod, vii. 33). After the battle of Mycale, theAthenians seized the opi>ortumty of recovering theChersonesus, and with that object laid siege to Ses­tus, into which a great many Persians had hastilyretired on their approach, and which was very in­sufficiently prepared for defence. Notwithstandingthis, the garrison held out bravely during manvmonths; and it was not till the spring of b. c. 478that it was so much reduced by famine as to havebecome mutinous. The governor, Artayctes, andother Persians, then fled from the town in the night;and on this being discovered, the inhabitants openedtheir gates to the Atheniaas. (Herod, ix. 115, seq.;Thuc. i. 89.) It remained in their possession tillafter tlie battle of Aegospotami, and used to becalled by them the corn-che>t of the t'iraeeus, fromits giving them the command of the trade of theKuxine. (Arist BkeL iii. 10. § 7.) At the close r those i * Lord Byron, in a note referring to his feat ofswimming across from Sestus to Abydus, says:—** The whole distance from the place whence westarted to our landing on the other side, includingthe length we were carried by the current, was com­puted by those on board the frigate at upwards of of the Peloponnesian War (b. c 404), SestM, *sfcmost of the other possessions of Athens in uV mmquarter, fell into the hands of the Lacedn ima—and their Persian allies. During the wir*tutb mnafterwards broke out between Sparta sad Pa**,Sestus adhered to the former, and refused to etoythe command of Pharnabazos to expel the LsasWmonian garrison; in consequence of which A •»blockaded by Conon (b. C. 394). but wiibt«l mm\result, as it appears. (Xen. HtU. iv. 8. § 6.)time after this, probably in consequence of thtof Antalcidas (u. c. 387), Sestus regained idependence, though only for a lime, and ptrbapname merely; for on the next occasion wbea itmentioned, it is as belonging to the Penis*Ariobarzanes, from whom Cotys, a Thracus o%was endeavouring to take it by arms (a.c3ttrVHe was, however, compelled to raise the seee.bablj by the united forces of TimolUna (Xen. AffU. ii. 26; Nep. Timotk. 1); thtauthority states that Ariubarzanes, inservices of Timotheus in this war, gave Sestasanother towu to the Athenians *, from whom it ■to have soon afterwards revolted, when itto Cotys. But his successor, Orsnbleptidared the whole Chersonesus, including Sthe Athenians (b. c. 357), who, on therefusal of Sestus to yield to them, sentB.C. 353, to reduce it to obedience. Aftersresistance it was taken by assault, and si! tat| inhabitants capable of bearing arms were, byorders, barbarously massacred. (Diod. xri-H Afterthis time we have little information r»]Sestus. It appears to have fallen under tatof the Macedonians, and the army oflireat assembled there (b\ c 334), to be cafrom its harbour in a Grecian fleet, from Earopsshores of Asia. By the terms of the peace(u. c. 197) between the Romans and Philip, US*wxs required to withdraw his garrisons tramplaces both in Europe and in Asia; and onof the Khodians, actuated no doubt by afree trade with the Kuxine, Sestusthe number. (Liy. xxxii. 33.) During theAntiochus, the Romans were about to Isythe town (b. c. 190); but it at once(Liv. xxxvii. 9.) Strabo mentions Sestus at aof some commercial importance in his Vmmthistory is silent respecting its subsequentAccording to D'Aneille its site is occupied byaplant called Zemtnic; but more recentname it JaUnra (Mannert, vii. p. 193). (Hi143; Thuc. viii. 62; Polyb. re. 44; Dwin,Arrian, Anab. i. 11. §§ 5, 6: PtoL ia. 12- §4,11. § 10; Steph. B. *. r.; Scmm. 70S674.) [J, SKSUVII [Essui]. SETAB1& [Saetabir.] SETAE, SETTAE, or SAETTAE (2rrss,rat, or SaiTrai), a town in Lydix, near thetaiof the river Ilermns, which is not rorotkneJ fcfof the earlier writers. (HierocL p. 669: Pui§ 21; Concil. Constant, iii. p. 502; ComaL W n nines, tin 4 Engii9h mUeSi though the actual breadth is barelyIns corresp.)nc_- fhil corresponds remarkably well with thencnts given j,eai,uri,ments gjvcn \,y stnib0, as above. * There is much obscurity in this part of (history, and the statement of Xejxasidered inconsistent with seven]authorities, who are undoubtedly of igreater weight than the unknown eeis.« Ibiographical notices which pajs under U» INejws. (Sec Diet. Biogr. Vol. III. p. 1146, a JJGD(8 ElAf.Ug jiia coj-iGgbouqaeptfp ini]6a' qwuSp i|S