OCR Output SAM0X1UM. 897 SAMOS. mttsA by Diodanu as the scene of the decisive•■irtetr in b. c. 314 (Di<d. xix. 76); and severaliaoa of which the names are found only in Virgil and- j j# Irahcus,—Mucbae, Rufrak, Batulum, and"> uutXA (Virg. A en. vii. 739; Sil. Ital. viii. 564).r-"-ch seem to have been situated on the borders ofVnpania, so that it is doubtful to which country"<-• affv to be assigned. The minor towns of the! rpiiu faare been already discussed in that article;'.cum, or ranoa,aname found in Strabo (v. p. 250)i thai of a place still existing in his time, is probably*njpt. but we are wholly at a loss what to substitute,i tie other hand, inscriptions attest the existence<i*r the Roman Empire of a town called Jnvavium,J^riDum, of municipal rank, which is not men-by any of the geographers, but is probably * one meant by the Liber Coloniarum, whichricas the ** lobanus ager n among the "civitatesawn." (Ub. Col. p. 260.) It was probably'u:«d in the neighbourhood of Sta Maria di**t^», a few miles X. of the Sagrus, and on therr frontiers of the Marrucini. (Mommsen, Inscr.. X. p. 271.) The existence of a town namedrtroara is Terr doubtful [Tifkrnus]; and that of1:7 <j( the name of Samnium, though adopted bysay local writers (Rnmam-lli, vol. ii. p. 490), cer-*tj rata on no adequate authority. Niaaiom was traversed in ancient times by severalm 1/ highway. One of these, following nearly • ume line with the modern road from Xaples to■oil. proceeded up the valley of the Vulturousn V'esmfrum to Aeaernia, thence crossed themtaifl ridge to Autidena in the valley of therrn, and fnun thence again over another moun-t i**4 to Sulrao in the land of the Peligni. *L*r branch ted from Aesernia to Bovianum,and1 tiencv to Kquus Tnticus, where it joined the1 Atpta or Trajafia. A third followed the valleytot Vultumua from Aesemia to Allifae, andm by Telesia to Beneventum. There seems ■ -i have bem a cross line from the latter placeWpxram to BovUnam. (Itin. Ant. p. 102; Tab.< ) Bat tiiese different tines are very confusedlyI dawn in the Tabula, and the distances givenof.ea either corrupt or erroneous. The course'jm Vol Appia, and its branch called the Via tiU, through the land of the Hirpiui, has been*ir noticed in that article. [See also Viarta.] [E. H. B ] 4M«>*\iriC SAMMOWtUM, SALMO'NIUM,LaKTNE FROM. (2cvM*rwv, 2a*.n6vtov, Strab.l 106, x. pp. 474. 475, 478, 489; SaAua-cij.r. xxni. 7; cotnp. Ptol. iii. 15. § 5; Pomp.&.UL 7. § 12; Plin. iv. 20. s. 21; Stadiasm.I*: Etk. XssA>«*nof, SoA/ium. A poll. Kind.1693; Diuny*. Per. 110; Intcrip. up. BocUt,jmt vwi. u. p. 409), the E. promontory of Crete,«bvh the *>e»Jnen of the Alexandrian vesselr.< cxaireyed 1'avul to Rome, thinking they could> * their vurjtge under the lee of the island, rana> (Jets, L c.y Much difference of opinion has r.i'.ertained relative to the identification of (his-rmiai foreland, the ponition of which Mould1 \'j be int- introvertibly ascertained by the ex-of the nrtcideni name C.Salomon. (Comp.t. ATrefcz, roa. L p- 427.) But though the ■ u certainly in favour of this site, the state->i» <d the ancient* as to its position, and of the ■ Mitt* or rucka which surround it, determineiiarffwlv that it must be C. S. Sidero. It is'u at by the recent Admiralty survey it is notiot_ u. quite so far to the E. as C. Salomon (the differenceis, however, only a few seconds of longitude); butby its extreme extension from the mainland it wouldbe considered as the principal promontory at thisend of the island, and known as the "E. fore­land." (Comp. Museum of Clou. Antiquities, vol. ii.p. 302.) TE. B.J.] SAMOS or SAMUS (2<W: F.th. and Adj. 2o-/uos, Samius, Hapatos,2uma*&r in Steph.: 2auiun-risin the language of the modern Greeks, who call theisland Samo, 2o/t»: the Turks call it Susam Adassi)ta large island in that part of the Aegaean which iscalled the I can an sea, and the most important ofthe Sporadea next after Rhodes. The word denotesa height, especially by the sea-shore. (See Const.Porphyrog. de Them. 16. p. 41, ed. Bonn.) HenceSamotiikacia, or the Th racial) Samos, which issaid by Pausanias (vii. 4. § 3) to have been colonisedand named by certain fugitives from the IcarianSamos,—and Same, one of the names of Ccphalonia,which is inversely connected with it by one ofStrata's conjectures (x. p. 457). How applicablethe idea of elevation is to the island before us maybe seen in the narratives and views given by I)r.Clarke {Travels, vol. ii. p. 192, vol. iii. p. 366), whouses the strongest language in describing the conspi­cuous height of Samos above the surrounding islands. The following earlier names of Samos are men­tioned by Pliny (v. 37) and other writers,- Par-thenia, Anthemus, Melamphylus, Dryusa and Cy-parissia. Some of these have evidently arisen fromthe physical characteristics of the island. Samoswas, and is, well-wooded. It is intersected from E.to W. by a chain of mountains, which is in fact acontinuation of the range of My tale, being separatedfrom it only by the narrow channel, hardly a milein breadth, which the Turks call the Little Boghat.Here was fought the decisive victory against thePersians, b. c. 479. The Great Boghaz, which isnearly 10 miles in breadth, separates the other ex­tremity of Samos from the comparatively low isiandof Icakia. The length of Samos, from E. to W., isabout 25 miles. Its breadth is very variable. Straboreckons the circuit at 600 stadia, Pliny at 87 miles,though he says that Uidorus makes it 100. Thesed.{Terences may be readily accounted for by omittingor including Port Vathy, which is a wild-lookingbay, though a very serviceable harbour, on the north.Here the modern capital is situated: but in ancienttimes the bay of Vuthy seems to have be»n com­paratively deserted—perhaps, as Tournefort suggests,because it was peculiarly exposed to pirates, whoinfested the straits and bays of an island which layin the route of commerce between the h**porua andEgypt. What Tournefort tells us of his travelsthrough Samos gives us the idea of a very rugged,though picturesque and productive, island. (lWihlythe Palinurus and Panomius of Samos. memioned byLivy, xxxvii. 11, may have been in the bay of Vuthy )The highest point, Mount Kerkis, the ancientCercetcus (Strab. x. p. 488), which is nearly alwayscovered with snow, and reaches the height of4725 English feet, is towards the west. A ridge,which branches off in a south-easterly direction fromthe main range, and ends in the promontory ofPoseidium, opposite Mycale, was called Ampelus,which name seems also to have been given to the v. holomountain-system (Strab. xiv. p. 637) The western­most extremity of the island, opposite Icaria was an­ciently called Cantharium. Here the cliffs are verybare and lofty. A landslip, which baa taken place m 3 11