OCR Output inn SUETRI. SUESSETANI. iluit connected with Pometia (Tac. But, iii. 72).The name of Sueasa Pometia is only once mentionedbefore this time, as the place where the sons ofAnt us Marcius retired into exile on the accession ofSenilis. (Liv. i. 41). It is clear also that it sur­vived its capture by Tarqnin, and even appears againin the wars of the Republic with the VobcUns,as a place of great power ami importance. Livy in­deed calls it a " Colonia Latina," but we have noaccount of its having become such. It, however, re­volted (according to his account) in it. c. 503, andwas not taken till the following year, by Sp. Cassius,when the city was destroyed and the inhabitant*sold as slaves. (Liv. ii. 10, 17). It neverthelessappears again a few years afterwards (B.C. 495)in the hands of the Volscians, but was again takenand pillaged by the consul P. Servilius (/&. 25;Dionva. vi. 29). This time the blow seems to havebeen decisive; for tlie name of Sueaaa Pometia isnever again mentioned in history, and all trace of itdisappears. Pliny notices it among the cities whichwere in his time utterly extinct (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9).and no record seems to have been preserved even ofits site. We are, however, distinctly told that the1'iiinptiinis «iger and the l'otnptine tiibe derived theirappellation from this city (Keat. s. v. Pompfina,p. 233), and there can therefore be no doubt that itstood in that district or on the verge of it; but be­yond this all attempts to determine its locality mustbe purely conjectural. [E. H. 15-] M'KSSKTA'XI, a people of Ilispania Tarra-conensis, mentioned only by Livy (sjev. 34, xxviii.Ii4, zjuiv. 20, xxxix. 42) and especially in con­nection with the Sedetsni (or Edetani). Marca(UL<p. ii. 9. 4) takes them for a branch of theCossetani; and Ukert (ii. pt i. p. 318) seeks themnear theCeltiberi, Lacetani, and Ih rcetes. [T.H.D.] SUESSIONES, or SUE'SSONES (WeWorst,Ttol. ii. 9. § 11), a people of Gallia Belgica. TheRemi told Caesar (B. G. ii. 3) in B. C, i>7 that theSuessiones were their brothers and kinsmen, bad theMine political constitution and the same laws,formed one political hotly with them, and hadthe same head or chief; their territory bordered onthe territory of the Remi, and was extensive andfertile; within the memory of man the Suessooeshad a king, Divitiacus, the most powerful prince inGallia, who even bad the dominion of Britannia; atthis time (b. c. 57) they had a king named Gal ha,a very just and wise man, to whom the BelgM whowere combining against Caesar nnanimouslv pavethe direction of tlie war. The Suessiones had twelvetowns, and promised a contingent of 50,000 menfor the war with Caesar. Caesar (fi. G. ii. 12) took Noviodunnm, a townof the Suessiones, and the people submitted [Novio-Di Ni M; Augusta Suks&ionum]. The Suessioneshad the rich country between the Oise and theManw. and the town of Svissoiis on the Aisne pre­serves their name unchanged. The Sue^iones arementioned (ft 0. vii. 75) among the peoples who senttheir contingent to attack Caesar at Alesia, b. c52; but their force was only 5000 men. Caesarpaid the Suessiones tor their pains by subjecting thento their brothers the Remi (*?. G. viii.G: **<jui Kemiserant attributi*'); in which passage the word "atlri-buii" denotes a political dependence, and in Galliatliat blgnitied payment of money. The Remi tookcare of themselves [I.'kmiJ. Pliny names the Suessiones Liberi (iv, 17), which,if it means anything-, may mean that they were re­ leased in his time from their deprrwewfRemi. In Pliny's text the name -Swoaa'between the name Veromandui and \nobody has yet found out what it means. The orthography of this narre is Dot eaaS itain; and the present name Soittatu b attruth as any other form. In Strabo (it p. 11it is 2oue<r<Tia*»'«r, and Lucan (t. 423) fa M Et Biturix, longieque leves So- Suessones is a correct ion; tut there bmiabout it (ed. Oudendorp). [6. L] SUE>»SULA (SowtrovAo: 0k I"Sfssnlti), a city of Campania, situated in ih* aof that country, near the frontiers of!betwen Capua and Nola, and about 4 mhrtlAcerrae. It is repeatedly mentioned danag \wars of the Romans with the Samoites. itheir campaigns against HanmbaL Too a IFirst Samnite War (u. c. 343) il was the adecisive victory by Valerius Corvus overt!* Swho had gathered tiigether the retrains of tborawhich had l>een previously defeated at IfastC(Liv. vii. 37). In the great Camnocian Warsafter, the Suesaulani followed the fattaaa of (citizens of Capua, and shared the samv fate. Iat the close of the contest they must t»»v ithe li<>man ci vitas, but without the risbcrf i(Id.viii. 14). In the Second Punic War the eif Ia considerable part, though apparently iposition than its own importance. The fc» «f1which rues from the level plaio ctfimmediately above Suessnla, and forms I Iprolongation of the ridge of Mount Tifata>istation almost as convenient as that mcannaaland in B-C 216, it was occupied by Marnflsslthe view nf protecting Nola, and lntfcasajMOperstiuns of Hannibal against that city (Liv. 114. 17). From this time the Romans atkept up a permanent camp there f c twhich was known as the Cast™ Clithe name of Marcellus who had first ■and which is Continually alluded U ioperations of the subsequent campaigns(be. I31. xxiv. 46, 47, xxv. 7, 22. xxvi. 9V M 1this period the name of Sues&ula di-awhistory. It continued to 1« a munkijai 1Campania, though apparent lr ooe uf a 1class; and inscriptions attest its mmunder the Empire. It had received aveterans as colonists under Sulla, but dad ithe colonial rank (Strab. v. p. 249; Pba. is. 3Orell. Jmcr. 129, 130, 2333; IJk p 1The Tabula places it on a liiw of ito Nola, K the distance of 9 mikv from rarfcecities (Tab. Peut). It wm an episcopal ifirst ages of Cl.tistianity, and itsascribed to the Sanu-ens in the 9th Iruins are still visible in a si-1 nowmarshy forest about 4 mil** & of Mman adjacent castle is still called Torrt eh JInscriptions, as well as capitals ofother architectural frapneots, hav* been f(Pratilli Via Appia, iii. 3. p. 347;iii p. 590). I Hi SUETRI (Sotnrrptst, PtuL iii. 1. § 4l<rpioi in >ome edition^). a Ligurian peafa\^by Pliny (iii. 4) abore Uie Oxrfcii,the coast bet\*.ecu Frrjut and Aar»6va. TWSare the last people named in the Trophy of * JIf the position of their town baluiae [Sausalj