OCR Output THE' DECLINE AND FALL- Solemn offices of religion, -which served at least to heal the imagination, rfnd re­store the hopes, of the multitude. The public defence had been long neglected,not from the presumption of peace, but from the distress and poverty of the times.As far as the scantiness of his means and the shortness of his leisure would allow,the ancient walls were repaired by the command of Leo; fifteen towers, in themost accessible stations, were built or renewed; two of these commanded on eitherside the Tiber; and an iron chain was drawn across the stream to impede the as­cent of a hostile navy. The Romans were assured of a short respite by the wel­come news, that the siege of Gayeta had been raised, and that a part of the enemy,with their sacrilegious plunder, had perished in the waves. But the storm which had been delayed, soon burst upan them with redoubledViolence. The Aglabite,(l) who reigned in Africa, had inherited from his father atreasure and an army: a fleet of Arabs and Moors, after a short refreshment in theharbours of Sardinia, cast anchor before the mouth of the Tiber, sixteen milesfrom the city; and their discipline and numbers appeared to threaten, not a tran­sient inroad, but a serious design of conquest and dominion. But the vigilance of.Leo had formed an alliance with the vassals of the Greek empire, the free andmaritime states of Gayeta, Naples, and Amalfi; and in the hour of danger, theirgallevs appeared in the port of Ostia, under the command of C«esarius, the son ofthe Neapolitan duke, a noble and valiant youth, who had already vanquished thefleets of the Saracens. With his principal companions, Caesarius was invited tothe Lateran palace, and the dexterous pontiff affected to inquire their errand, andto accept with joy and surprise their providential succour. The city bands, in ,arms, attended their father to Ostia, where he reviewed and blessed his generousdeliverers. They kissed his feet, receive4 the communion with martial devotion,and listened to the prayer of Leo, that the same God who had supported St. Peterand St? Paul on the waves of the sea, would strengthen the hands of his cham­pions against the adversaries of his holy name. After a similar prayer, and withequal resolution, the Moslems advanced to the attack of the Christian galleys,which preserved their advantageous station along the coast. The victory inclinedtoythe side of the allies, when it was less gloriously decided in their favour by asudden tempest, which confounded the skill and courage of the stoutest mariners.The Christians were sheltered in a friendly harbour, while the Africans werescattered and dashed in pieces among the rocks and islands of a hostile shore.Those who escaped from shipwreck and hunger, neither found nor deserved mercyat the hands of their implacable pursuers. The sword and the gibbet reduced thedangerous multitude of captives; and the remainder was more usefully employed,to restore the sacred edifices which they had attempted to subvert. ' The pontiff,at the head of the citizens and allies, paid his grateful devotion at the shrines ofthe apostles; and among the spoils of this naval victory, thirteen Arabian bows ofpure and massy silver were suspended round the altar of the fishermen of Galilee.The reign of Leo the Fourth was employed in the defence and ornament of theRoman state. The churches were renewed and embellished; near four thousandpounds of silver were consecrated to repair the losses of St. Peter; and his sanctu­ary was decorated with a plate of gold the weight of two hundred and sixteenpounds, embossed with the portraits of the pope and emperor, and encircled witha string of pearls. Yet this vain magnificence reflects less glory on the characterof Leo, than the paternal care with which he rebuilt the walls of Horta and Arae-ria; and transported the wandering inhabitants of Centunicella; to his new founda­tion of Leopolis, twelve miles from the sea-shore. (2) By his liberality a colony ofCorsicans, with their wives and children, was planted in the station of Porto at themouth of the Tiber: the falling city was restored for their use, the fields and vine­yards were divided among the new settlers: their first efforts were assisted by agift of horses and cattle; and the hardy exiles, who breathed revenge against theSaracens, swore to live and die under the standard of St. Peter. The nations ofthe west and north who visited the threshold of the apostles, had gradually formedthe large and populous suburb of the Vatican, and their various habitations weredistinguished, in the language of the times, as the schools of the Greeks and Goths,of the Lombards and Saxons. But this venerable spot was still open to sacrilegious (1) De Guipiei, Hist. Generate des Huns, torn.!. p. 3M,S64. Cardmine, Hist, de l'Afrique el de I'Kipaenc.sons la Domination des Arabes. torn. 2. p. 34, 35. I observe, and cannot reconcile, the difierence of these writersin the succession of the A g.Rhites. (2) Beretti (Chronographia Italia; Medii ^Evi, p. j,oo. 108.) has illustrated CeuWmcellK, I.eopoUs, CivitarLoonma,and the other p!it«es of the Roman duelif.