OCR Output Chap. XVf. WARS or THE JEWS. 403 but not that which had fought with the Jews, because the multitude bare ill will against that band on account of what theyhad suffered from it; so he changed the band as they desired,and, with the rest of his forces, returned to Cesarea. CHAP. XVI. Cettias sends Neopolitanus the tribune to see in what condition theaffairs ofthejewt were. Agrippa makes a speech to the peo­ple of the Jews, that he may divert them from their intentionsof making war with the Romans. § l, TTO WE VER, Floras contrived another way to obligeA JL the Jews to begin the war, and sent to Cestius, andaccused the Jews falsely of revolting [from the Roman govern­ment], and imputed the beginning of the former fight to them,and pretended they had been the authors of that disturbance,wherein they were only the sufferers. Yet were not the go­vernors ef Jerusalem silent upon this occcasion, but did themselveswrite to Gestius, as did Bernice also, about the illegal practicesof which Floras had been guilty against the city ; who, uponreading both accounts, consulted with his captains [what he'should do]. Now some of them thought it best for Cestius togo up with his army, either to punish the revolt, if it was real,or to settle the Roman affairs on a surer foundation, if the Jewscontinued quiet under them ; but he thought it best himself tosend one of his intimate friends before hand, to see the state ofaffairs, and 'to give him a faithful account of the intention ofthe Jews. Accordingly he sent one of his tribunes, whose nameWas Neopolitanus, who met with king Agrippa, as he was re­turning from Alexandria at Jamnia, and told him who it wasthat sent him, and oa what errands he was sent. 2. And here it was that the high-priests, and men of poweramong the jews, as well as the sanhedrim, came to congratulatethe king [upon his safe return], and after they had paid himtheir respects, they lamented their own calamities, and relatedto him what barbarous treatment they had met with fromFlorus. At which barbarity Agrippa had great indignation,but transferred after a subtle manner, his anger towards thoseJews whom he really pitied, that he might beat down their highthoughts of themselves, and would have them believe that theyhad not been so unjustly treated, in order to dissuade them fromavenging themselves. So these great men, as of better under-Standing than the rest, and desirous of peace, because of the pos­sessions they had, understood that this rebuke which the kinggave them was intended for their good-, but as to the people, 3 E 2 they