OCR Output 362 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. sians were not invincible, and that a hero was in-xx x' vested with the purple. Strong in victory and fame,Heraclius boldly ascended the heights of mountTaurus, directed his march through the plains ofCappadocia, and established his troops for the winterseason in safe and plentiful quarters on the banks ofthe river Halys *. His soul was superior to the vanityof entertaining Constantinople with an imperfecttriumph: but the presence of the emperor was indis­pensably required to soothe the restless and rapaciousspirit of the Avars.His second Since the days of Scipio and Hannibal, no bolderaTd. 623^ enterprise has been attempted than that which Hera-o"24,625. clius achieved for the deliverance of the empire t.He permitted the Persians to oppress for a while theprovinces, and to insult with impunity the capital ofthe East; while the Roman emperor explored hisperilous way through the Black Sea, and the moun­tains of Armenia, penetrated into the heart of Per­sia t, and recalled the armies of the great king to thedefence of their bleeding country. With a selectband of five thousand soldiers, Heraclius sailed fromConstantinople to Trebizond; assembled his forceswhich had wintered in the Pontic regions ; and, fromthe mouth of the Phasis to the Caspian Sea, encou­raged his subjects and allies to march with the suc­cessor of Constantine under the faithful and victo­rious banner of the cross. When the legions of Lu-cullus and Pompey first passed the Euphrates, they * George of Pisidia, an eye-witness (Acroas. ii. 122, &c.), described, in threeacroateit or cantos, the first expedition of Heraclius. The poem has been lately(1777) published at Rome; but such vague and declamatory praise is far from'corresponding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi, D'Anville, &e. f Theophanes (p. 256) carries Heraclius swiftly (m™ invof) into Armenia.Nicephorus (p. II), though he confounds the two expeditions, defines the provinceof Lazica. Eutychius (Annal. tom. ii. p. 231) has given the 5000 men, with themore probable station of Trebizond. X The expedition of Heraclius into Persia is finely illustrated by M. d'Anville(Memoirs de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom, xxviii. p. 559—573). He dis­covers the situation of Gandzaca, Thebarma, Dastagerd, &c. with admirable skilland learning; but the obscure campaign of 624 he passes over in silence.