OCR Output 74 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. of Anastasius, and that prudent emperor accumulated animmense treasure, while he delivered his people from themost odious or oppressive taxes. Their gratitude uni­versally applauded the abolition of the gold of affliction,a personal tribute on the industry of the poorbut moretolerable, as it should seem, in the form than in the sub­stance, since the flourishing city of Edessa paid only onehundred and forty pounds of gold, which was collectedin four years from ten thousand artificers.11 Yet suchwas the parsimony, which supported this liberal disposi­tion, that, in a reign of twenty-seven years, Anastasiussaved, from his annual revenue, the enormous sum ofthirteen millions sterling, or three hundred and twentythousand pounds of gold.1 His example was neglected,and his treasure was abused, by the nephew of Justin.The riches of Justinian were speedily exhausted by almsand buildings, by ambitious wars, and ignominious trea­ties. His revenues were found inadequate to his expenses.Av«ioe Every art was tried to extort from the people the goldfasianof and silver which he scattered with a lavish hand fromJustmian. persia to France;™ his reign was marked by the vicissi­tudes, or rather by the combat, of rapaciousness and ava­rice, of splendour and poverty; he lived with the repu­tation of hidden treasures," and bequeathed to his suc­cessor the payment of his debts." Such a character has 1 Evagrius (lib. 3. e. S9, 40.) is minute and grateful, but angry with Zosimus forcalumniating tlie great Constantine. In collecting all the bonds and records of thetax, Che humanity of Anastasius was diligent and artfal; fathers were sometimes com­pelled to prostitute their daughters. (Zosim. Hist. lib. 2. c. 38. p. 165,166. Lipsiae,1784.) Timotheus of Gaza chose such an event for the subject of a tragedy, (Snidas,tom. S. p. 475.) which contributed to the abolition of the tax: (Cedrenus, p. 35.) ahappy instance (if it be true) of the use of the theatre. k See Josua Stylites, in the Bibliotheca Orientalis of Asseman. (tom. 1. p. 268.)This capitation-tax is slightly mentioned in the Chronicle of Edessa. 1 Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19.) fixes this sum from the report of the treasurer*themselves. Tiberius had Dices ter mi I lies; but far different was his empire fromthat of Anastasius. m Evagrius, (lib. 4. c. SO.) in the next generation, was moderate and well-informed;and Zonaras, (lib. 14. c. 61.) in the twelfth century, had read with care, and thoughtwithout prejudice: yet their colours are almost as black as those of the Anecdotes. ° Proeopius (Anecdot. c. 30.) relates the idle conjectures of the times. Thedeath of Justinian, says the secret historian, will expose his wealth or poverty."SeeCorjppus de Laudibus Justini Aug. lib. 2. 260. &c. 384, &c."Plurima sunt vivo mmium neglecta parenti,Uude totexhaustus contraxit dehita fiscas."