OCR Output MYT1LENE.MYTISTEATUS. 391 T'jtL-A |»ss3.'e in which the history of Mytileiican pnoiaeiitly into view is in the struggle be-rvn i tbc Aeoliana lod Athenians for Sigeum (b.cM), it the SW. comer of Asia Minor. The placeaa tit Dine art both rrmarkableras illustrating ther vita which Mytilene was exercising itspolitical power. We see it already'ins on the mainland,i: iu in uus ctunict, too, that Pittaeus, the sagem ftwrmr of Mytilene, acted so noble a part, andtat Alone, her great poet, lust his shield. Themt>* oc these two names reminds us that thisoca </ rivalry witli Athens coincides with thei4»jy iaienul contests of the nobles and commonsa Urolfoe. For the history and results of thistavde, see the lives of Aix akt s, Pittacus, andiinnu. k the Did. of Biography.h say be diificult to disentangle the history ofk<aijiarain hum that of the Acoliaus in pe­arl, siring the period uf the Persian ascendancy ■ ua* easts. Bat we have a proof of their mer- -' - •- the fad that they alone of the: in the building of the Hellenium ■ aiimlii (Herod, ii. 178); and we find them P> prormuait part in the invasion of Egypt byib, (th. hi. la, 14.) They supplied a con-to Darios in his Scythian expedition (lb. iv.They sue closely connected with the affairs: a 'oris (Id. vi. 5); and doubtless, though they« Ml leparately mentioned, they were the bestKae «f uW Atuhans who supplied sixty ships toK3a a ab invasion of Greece. (Ib. vii. 95.) the A'heuian supremacy and thePBBaaaaui War is full of the fame of Mytilene.■> ftJiinct of its citizens with those of Athens>*■•<• after the final repulse of Persia. They heldii'ii position among the allies whichnnj ua Athenian confederacy; but their revoltAU«» in the foorth year of the Peloponnesianav Wau>bt apuo them the most terrible ruin. first dreadful decision of the Athenianawaiy mas overruled (Thucyd. iii. 36), the walls ofpulled down, and her fleet given up;a ferntary was djrided among Athenian share-I fth* was deprived of her possessions and-* inland., (lb. iii. 50.)'tU. ioseof tlie Peloponnesian War, CononCalbcratidas otf Mytilene, and block ■t m harbour. (Xen. UelL i. 6.) We pass nowr, with whose campaigns thisisly connected. The Lesbians made'nth Macedonia. Meinnun reduced thesuf the island: and his death, which in-i last blow on the Persian power iu the■a place in tlie moment of victory againstIt ass retaken by Hegesiloclms, in the'ha ream! reduction uf the islands, andlaarjrt secession uf territory. Two Myti-3 and Erigy ius, the sons of Larichus,•araaaad members of Alexander's start,r *4i in action against the Hadrians; the: at Syria even after Alexander's > experience of the Roman power in the > •• i Mytilene. Having cspouseilf Haaridstii, and having held out to the sscitrd by M. Tbennus, "n which i.r-aajaxahly distinguished himself.■» #»ndahip with Tbeophanes led to thef Mytilene as a free city. (Plin. v. 31.) i Fompey touched there •paWcfi for the last time to take Cornelia on board. His sonSextus met with a friendly reception there, after hisdefeat at sea, by Agrippa. (Dion Cass. xlix. 17;App. B. C. v. 133.) Agrippa himself resided therefor some time in retirement, ostensibly on account ofhis health, but really through mortification causedby the preference shown to M. Marcellus (Tac.-4nn.xiv. 53; Suet. Aug. 66, Tib. 10); and this resi­dence is commemorated by an inscription stillextant. (See Pocockc) The last event which weneed mention in the imperial period is the crossingover of Germanicus with Agrippina from Euboca toLesbos, and the birth of Julia. (Tac. Ann. ii. 54.)This event, also, was commemorated both by coinsand inscriptions. (See Kckhel and Pucocke.) Itappears that the privilege of freedom was takenaway by Vespasian, but restored by Hadrian.(Plehn, Lesbiac. p. 83.) Mytilene is one of the few cities of the Aegean,which have continued without intermission to flourishtill the present day. In the course of the middleages it gradually gave its name to the whole island.Thus, in the Synecdcmus of Hierocles, MiruA-tivnand MeuY^ca are both mentioned under the Pro­vince of the JsUuuU; but in tlie later Ilyzantmedivision, Mytilene is spoken of as an island, likeLemno? ami Chios, in the Theme of the Aegean Sea,(Const. Purphyrug. de Them. i. pp. 42,43, ed. Bonn.)The fortunes of Mytilene during the hist advancisof the Mahomedaus in the Levant, and during theascendancy of the Venetians at a later period, arenoticed in Pinlay's Ui&Utry of the Byzantine andGreek Empire), vol. ii. pp. 72, 171, 223. Theisland of Lesbos was not actually part of the Ma-homedan empire till nearly ten years after thofall of Constantinople. With tiie exception of the early struggles of thotime of Alcaeus and Pittacus, there is little to besaid of the internal constitutional history of Mytilene.It shared, with all Greek cities, the results of thostruggles of the oligarchical and democratical parties.We find a commonalty (Sauos) and a council (/tioAAa)mentioned on coins of the period of Alexander; andthe title of magistrates, called o-TpaT7j7o'y (praetor),appears on coins of Lucius Verus. In connectionwith this part of the subject we may allude to twocreditable laws; one which enacted (doubtless iuconsequence of the great quantity of wine iu thoisland) that offences committed by the drunk shouldbe more severely punished than those committed bythe sober ( Ariat. Pot ii. 9. 9); the other makinga singular provision fur the punishment of faithless­ness in tributary allies, by depriving them of theprivilege of educating their children. (Aclian, Far.UUt. vii. 15.) [J. S. H.] COIN OK MYTILENE. MYTl'STKATUS (Muri'uTpaToj, Steph. 15.,Died.; Moo-rlo-Tpa/ros, Zonar.; to MuttiVtpotoi'.Pol.: Eth. Mutustratinus, Plin.), a town in the inte­rior of Sicily, the position of which is wholly uncer- c c 4