OCR Output UMBRIA. 1315 U.MRRIA. From the month of the litter stream the frontier moathare followed an irregular line extending to the cen­tral range of the Apennines, so as to include the uppervalleys of the Sapis and Bed eg is; thence it rejoinedthe line alrradj traced from the sources of the Tiber. All ancient authors agree in representing the Um-brians as the most ancient people of Italy (Plin.iii. 14. s. 19; Flor. i. 17; Dion vs. i. 19), and thetraditions generally received described tliem as ori­ginally spread over a much more extensive regionthan that which ultimately retained their name, andoccupying the whole tract from sea to sea, includingthe territories subsequently wrested from them bythe Etruscans. That people, indeed, was repre­sented as gaining possession of its new settlementsstep by step, and as having taken not less than 300towns from the Uinbrians. (Flin. L c.) This num­ber is doubtless fabulous, but there seems to be goodfor regarding the fact of the conquest as his-Herodotus, in relating the Lydian tradition•rsing the emigration of tho Tyrrhenians, repre­sents the land as occupied, at the time of their ar­rival, by the Umbrians. (Herod, i. 94.) The tra­ditions reported by Uionysius concerning the settle­ments of the Pelasgians in Italy, all peint to thesame result, and represent the Umbrians as extendingat one period to the neighbourhood uf Spina on theAdriatic, and to the mouths of the Fadus. (Dionvs.i. 16—20.) In accordance with this we learn in­cidentally from Pliny that Butrium. a town not farfrom Raveuna, was of L'mbrian origin. (Plin. iii.15. a. 80.) The name uf the river Umbro (0m-brcmt), on the coast of Etruria, was also in all pro­bability a relic of their dominion in that part ofItaly. On the whole we may fairly assume as ahistorical fact, the existence of the Uinbrians at avery early period as a great and powerful nation inthe northern naif of Central Italy, whuee dominionextended from sea to sea, and comprised the fertiledistricts on both sides of the Apennines, as well astlie mountains themselves. According to Zonodotusof Truexem (ap. Dionys. ii. 49), the powerful race ofthe Sabines itself was only a branch or offshootuf the Umbrians; and this statement Li to a greatextent confirmed by the result of recent philolo­gical researches. [Sabiki] If the Umbrians are thus to be regarded as one ofthe most ancient of the races established in Italy,the question as to their ethnological affinities be­comes of peculiar interest and importance. Unfortu­nate!/ it is one which we can answer but very im-i*?rfectly. The ancient authorities upon this pointare of little value. Most writers, indeed, contentthemselves with stating that they were the mostancient people uf Italy, and apparently consider themu Aborigines. This was distinctly staled by Zeno-dotus of Troezen, who hsd written a special historyif the Umbrian peojde (Dionys. ii. 49); and the samedca was probably conveyed by the fanciful Greekirrmology that they were colled Ombrieans or Um-M-iam, because they had survived the deluge caused•j floods of rain (jufiuoi; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19).Mine writers, however, of whom the earliest seemso hare been one Boccbus. frequently quoted by So-.nua, represented the Umbrians as of Gaulish origin>olin, 2. § II; Serv. ad Am. xii. 758; Isidor.'rig. ix. 2); and the same view has been maintainediy several modern writers, as the result of philolo-icat inquiries. Researches of this latter kind havenrfeed of late years thrown much light npnn theof the Umbrian language, of which we possess an Important monument in the celebratedtables of Igurium. [Iouvii-m.] They have clearlyestablished, on the one hand its distinctness from thelanguage of the neighbouring Etruscans, on the otherits close affinity with the Oscan, as spoken by theSabellian tribes, and with the old Latin, so thatthe three may fairly be considered as only dialectsof one and the same family of languages. !nm,p. 86.] The same researches tend to prove thatthe Umbrian is the most ancient of these cognatedialects, thus confirming the assertions of ancientwriters concerning the great antiquity of the nation.Hut, while they prove beyond a doubt that the Um­brian, as well as the nearly related Oscan and Latin,was a branch of the great Indo-Teutonic family,they show also that the three formed to a great ex­tent a distinct branch uf that family or an independentgroup of languages, which cannot with proprietybe assigned to the Celtic group, any more than tothe Teutonic or Slavonic The history of the Umbrians is very imperfectlyknown to us. The traditions of their power andgreatness all point to a very early period; and it iscertain that after the occupation of Etruria as wellas of the plains of the Padus by the Etruscans,the Uinbrians shrunk up into a comparatively ob­scure mountain people. Their own descendants theSabines also occupied the fertile districts about Reateand the valley of the Vclinus, which, according tothe traditions reported by Dionysius, had originallybeen held by the Umbrians, but had been wrestedfrom them by the Pelasgians (Dionys. ii. 49.) Ata much later period, but still before the name of theUmbrians appears in Roman history, Uiey had beenexpelled by the Senonian Gauls from the region ontho shures of the Adriatic. Livy indeed representsthem as having previously held also a part of theterritory which was subsequently occupied by theBoians, and from which they were driven by the in­vasion of that people (Liv. v. 35). It was not till the Romans had carried their armsbeyond the immediate neighbourhood of the city,and penetrated beyond the barrier of the Ciminianforest, that they came into contact with the Um­brians. Their first relations were of a friendlynature. The consul Fabius having sent secret en­voys through the land of the neighbouring Etruscansinto Umbria, received from the tribe of the Camertea|>romisesof support and assistance if he should reachtheir country. (Liv. ix. 36.) But the Umbrianpeople seem to have been divided into different tribes,which owned no common government and look differ­ent lines of policy. Some of these tribes made commoncause with the Etruscans and shared in their defeatby Fabius. (/6 37.) This disaster was followedby two other defeats, which were sustained by theUmbrians alone, and the second of these, in whichtheir combined forces were overthrown by the consulFabius near Mevauia (n c. 308), appears to havebeen a decisive blow. It was lollowed. we are told,by the submission of all the Umbrian tribes, ofwhom the people of Ocriculnm were received intothe Roman alliance on peculiarly favourable terms.(Liv. ix. 39, 41.) r'rom this time we hear no more of hostilities withthe Umbrians, with the exception of an expeditionagainst a mere marauding tribe of mountaineers(Liv. x. I), till B. c. 2U6. when the Samiiite trailerGellius E^uatius succeeded in organising a eeneralconfederacy against Rome, in which the Uu.briansGauls took part, as well as the Etrus­ 4 p 2