OCR Output 992 SIC SICYON. (Plin. xxxv. 3. s. 15); ami tlte city long remainedthe home of painting (i4 diu ilia fuit patria picturae,"Plin. xxxv. 11. s. 40). Sicyon pave its name toone of the great schools of painting, which wasfounded by Eupompus, and which produced Pam-philns and Apelles. (IMin. xxxv. 10. s. 36.) Sicyonwas likewise the earliest school of statuary inGreece, which was introduced into the city byDipoenus and ScylHs from Crete about B.C. 560(PHn* xxxvi. 4); but its earliest native statuary ofcelebrity was Canaehus. Lyaippus was also ft nativeof Sicyon. {Diet, of Bi*iyt: s. vv.) The city wasthus rich in works of art; but its most valuablepaintings, which the Sieyom'ans had been obliged togive in pledge on account of their debts, wereremoved to Kome in the aedileship of 51. Scaurus, toadorn his theatre. (Plin. xxxv. 11. s. 40.) Sicyon was likewise celebrated for the taste andskill displayed in the various articles of dress madeby its inhabitants, among which we find mention ofa particular kind of shoe, which was much prizedin all parts of Greece. (Athen. to, p. 155; Pollux,vii. 'J.'J; Hesveh. v. 2i«uwWa ; Auctor, «// fhrenn.iv. 3, tie Orat. i. 54; Lucret. iv. 1121; Kest. *. r.SicyonuL) IV. Topoyraphy oftfte City.— Fewcitiesin Greecewere more finely situated than Sicyon. The hillon which it stood commands a most splendid view.Towards the west is seen the plain to celebratedfor its fertility; towards the east the prospect isbounded by the lofty hill <>f the Aci<korinthus; whilein front lies the sea, with the noble mountains ofParnassus, Helicon, and Cithaeion rising from theopjx)site coast, the whole forming a charmingprospect, which cannot have been without influencein cultivating the love for the fine arts, for whichthe city was distinguished. The hill of Sicyonis a tubular summit of a triangular shape, and isdivided into an upper and a lower level by a lowrid^e of rocks stretching right across it, and form­ing an abrupt separation between the two levels.The upper level, which occupies the southern pointof the triangle, and is about a third of the whole,was the Acropolis in the time of Pausanias (7/ vxivAk^jtoKis, ii. 7. § 5). map or the site of sicyon (from Leake).A. I'asilika. bbb. Remains of ancient watts. Pausanias enme to Sicyon from Corinth. Aftercrossing the Asopus, he noticed the Olympieium onthe right, and a little farther on the left of the road the tomb of EupolisAfter passing some otfcentered the city by thea fountain droppingrocks, which was tonfyvaa), or the droppiihas now disappeared iin of the rocks. Uponfirst crossed the ledgefrom the lower level, a]Here he noticed templeof which there are stAcropolis was the theafound, in conformity *sanias, in the ledge <levels. On the stage oof a man with a shielAratus. Near the thtnysus, from which a npie of Artemis Limnaetrance of the Agora 1Persuasion: and in th«which appears to haveSicyon. The festivalbruted in the ninth IAratus, when he delivtyrant, gave as the 18c£<os. (Plut, Arat.(xvii. 16) a brazen c<lus I., 10 cubits high,temple of Apollo; butby Pausanias, and happeared. (Paus. ii.temple of Peitho wasthe Roman emperors, atyrant Cleon. Before i(Paus. ii. 8. § 8), aIsthmian Poseidon, amand of Artemis Patroa,mid, the latter a colonthe council-house (£mby Cleisthenes out ofwise a brazen statue ota gilded statue of ArteiLyceius, and statues ofHercules, and of Henn«6, 7.) The Poecile Stojin the Agora, but is no!was adorned with mumthe subject of a work of 1Pausanias then prewhich he describes as rGymnasium containedby Scopas; and in anotlin a sacred inclosure, na road led to two Urge iand Aphrodite, both <several statues and buisium Pausanias wentPheraea to the gyinnaused for the training oftained statues of Arten10.) It is evident thatfrom the one already 1tiuues his course towarhe turns towards theSacred, near which thejtemple of Athena, bumythical kings of Sicyiby lightning, and of wbut the altar: thU tec