OCR Output CHAP. LI. 359 of the earth. When Abubeker assumed the office ofcaliph, he enjoined his daughter Ayesha to take a strictaccount of his private patrimony, that it might be evi­dent whether he were enriched or impoverished by theservice of the state. He thought himself entitled to astipend of three pieces of gold, with the sufficient main­tenance of a single camel and a black slave; but on theFriday of each week, he distributed the residue of hisown and the public money, first to the most worthy, andthen to the most indigent, of the Moslems. The remainsof his wealth, a coarse garment, and five pieces of gold,were delivered to his successor, who lamented with amodest sigh his own inability to equal such an admir­able model. Yet the abstinence and humanity of Omarwere not inferior to the virtues of Abubeker: his foodconsisted of barley-bread or dates; his drink was water:he preached in a gown that was torn or tattered in twelveplaces; and a Persian satrap who paid his homage tothe conqueror, found him asleep among the beggars onthe steps of the mosch of Medina. Economy is thesource of liberality, and the increase, of the revenue en­abled Omar to establish, a just and perpetual reward forthe past and present services of the faithful. Carelessof bis own emolument, he assigned to Abbas, the uncleof the prophet, the first and most ample allowance oftwenty-five thousand drachms or pieces of silver. Fivethousand were allotted to each of the aged warriors, therelics of the field of Beder, and the last and meanest ofthe companions of Mahomet was distinguished by theannual reward of three thousand pieces. One thousandwas the stipend of the veterans who had fought in thefirst battles against the Greeks and Persians, and the de­creasing pay, as low as fifty pieces of silver, was adaptedto the respective merit and seniority of the soldiers ofOmar. Under his reign, and that of his predecessor,the conquerors of the east were the trusty servants ofGod and the people: the mass of the public treasure