OCR Output NOTES ON THE such as lire in generation are said to be placed under Neptune.And those which after generation are purified and punished, andeither wander under the earth for a thousand years, or again re­turn to their principle, are said to live under Pluto. In the fifthplace, the distributions of these gods are divided according to thecentres of the universe. For Jupiter possesses the oriental centre,as being allotted an order correspondent to that of fire: but Nep­tune obtains the middle centre, which corresponds to a vivific na­ture, and through which generation enjoys celestial natures: andPluto obtains the western centre ; since the west is allied to earth,because it is nocturnal, and the cause of obscurity and darkness.For shade proceeds from the earth, and earth is the privation oflight from west to east. Lastly, according to every division of theuniverse, such natures as arefirst, and obtain the principality, belongto Jove; such as are middle correspond to the kingdom of Neptune;aud such ai are last belong to the empire os Pluto."' Page 141. Mercury in a fitting posture, and by thefide of him aram.~] The reason why Mercury was represented by the ancientswith a ram, depends on the intimate alliance of this god with Mi­nerva, who, as we are informed by Proclus on the Timæus, pre­sides over that celestial constellation called the ram, and fromthence imparts a motive power which governs the universe. Butthe agreement of Minerva with Mercury will be obvious fromconsidering that this goddess, as we have before observed, extendsthe whole of intelb.ilual light, and that Mercury is the source ofthe reasoning power. Hence the ancients used to render the statuesof both these divinities one, by joining them together: and astatue of this kind they called f.;na8i»i), Hermathena, or Mercury-Minerva. These Hermathena: are mentioned by Cicero in hisbooks De Inventione. I only add, that the verses of Homer citedby Pausanias may be sound Iliad 14. v. 490. Page 144. Minerva Chalinitii.] i. e. the Bridler. uPa^e 147. I/is.] Isis is the fame with Minerva, according tothe Ægyptians, as we are informed by Plutarch, in his treatise of 6 LIfi»