OCR Output ISO ANTIOJJ1TIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX. who first of all built the entire temple. But king Agrippa, whohad the care of the temple committed to him by Claudius Caesar,considering that it is easy to demolish any building, but hard tobuild it up again, and that it was particularly hard to do it tothese cloisters, which would require a considerable time, andgreat sums of money, he denied the petitioners their requestabout that matter ; but he did not obstruct them when they de­sired the city might be paved with white stone. He also depri­ved Jesus, the son of Gamaliel, of the high-priesthood, and gaveit to Matthias, the son of Theophilus, under whom the Jewswar with the Romans took its beginning, CHAP. X. jtn enumeration of tie Higl-prifsts. $ 1. A ND now I think it proper, and agreeable to this his-"^^ tory, to give an account of our high-priests ; how theybegan, who those are which are capable of that dignity, andhow many of them there had been at the end of the war. Inthe first place, therefore, history informs us, that Aaron, thebrother of Moses, officiated to God as an high-priest, and that,after his death, his sons succeeded him immediately ; and thatihis dignity hath been continued down from them all to theirposterity. Whence it is a custom of our country, that no oneshould take the high.priesthood of God, but he who is of theblood of Aaron, while every one that is of another stock, thoughhe were a king, can never obtain that high-priesthood. Ac­cordingly, the number of all the high-priests from Aaron, ofwhom we have spoken already, as of the first of them, until Pha-nas, who was made high-priest during the war by the seditious,was eighty-three ; of whom thirteen officiated as high-priests inthe wilderness, from the days of Moses, while the tabernaclewas standing, until the people came into Judea, when king So­lomon erected the temple to God : for at the first they held thehigh-priesthood till the end of their life, although afterwardthey had successors while they were alive. Now these thirteen,who were the descendants of two of the sons of Aaron, receivedthis dignity by succession, one after another; for their form ofgovernment was an aristocracy, and after that a monarchy, andin the third place the government was regal. Now, the numberof years during the rule of these thirteen, from the day whenour fathers departed out of Egypt, under Moses their leader,until the building of that temple which king Solomon erected at * Of these cloisters of Solomon, see the description of the temple, ch. xiii.—They KCID, by josephus's words, to Imvc beenli.ih from the bottom of the valley.