OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME 103 .—BOOK XXVIII. under Quintus Claudius, propretor; they consisted eachof two legions. It was decreed that Marcus Livius,proconsul, whose command had heen prolonged for ayear, should receive two legions of volunteer slavesfrom Caius Terentius, propretor in Etruria; and thatQuintus Mamilius should transfer his judicial employ­ment to his colleague, and take the command in Gaulwith the army which had belonged to Lucius Porcius,propretor; orders at the same time being given him tolay waste the lands of the Gauls, who had revolted onthe approach of Hasdrubal. The protection of Sicilywas given in charge to Caius Servilius, with the twolegions of Cannae, as Caius Mamilius had held it.From Sardinia, the old army which had served underAulus Hostilius, was brought home; and the consulslevied a new legion, which Tiberius Claudius was tocarry with him. Quintus Claudius and Caius Hos­tilius Tubulus were continued in command for a year,that the former might hold Tarentum as his province,the latter Capua. Marcus Valerius, proconsul, whohad been intrusted with the defence of the sea-coastsround Sicily, was ordered to deliver thirty ships toCaius Servilius, and to return home with all the restof the fleet. 11. While the public was under much anxiety, onaccount of the great danger and importance of the war,and ever apt to refer to the gods the causes of all theirsuccesses and disappointments, accounts were propa­gated of a number of prodigies: that at Tarracina, thetemple of Jupiter; at Satricum, that of Mother Ma-tuta, had been struck by lightning; the people beingalso greatly terrified by two snakes creeping into theformer unperceived through the very door. From An-tium it was reported that ears of corn had appearedbloody to the reapers. At Caere a pig had been litteredwith two heads, and a lamb yeaned which was of bothsexes. It was said also, that two suns had been seenat Alba, and that light had burst forth on a suddenduring the night-time at Fregellae. An ox, it was-as­serted, had spoken in the neighborhood of Rome; anda profuse sweat had flowed from the altar of Neptune,