OCR Output I43 LIVY. in the Campanian territory. Both the consuls weretherefore sent into Samnium, and proceeded to differentregions, Postumius to Tifernum, Minucius to Bovia-num. The first engagement happened at Tifernum,where Postumius commanded. Some say that theSamnites were completely defeated, and twenty thou­sand of them made prisoners. Others, that the armyseparated without victory on either side; and thatPostumius, counterfeiting fear, withdrew his forcesprivately by night, and marched away to the mountains;whither the enemy also followed, and took possessionof a stronghold two miles distant. The consul, havingcreated a belief that he had come thither for the sakeof a safe post, and a fruitful spot, (and such it reallywas,) secured his camp with strong works. Furnishingit with magazines of every thing useful, he left a strongguard to defend it; and at the third watch led awaythe legions lightly accoutred, by the shortest road whichhe could take, to join his colleague, who lay oppositeto his foe. There, by advice of Postumius, Minuciuscame to an engagement; and when the fight had con­tinued doubtful through a great part of the day, Post­umius, with his fresh legions, made an unexpectedattack on the enemy's line, spent by this time withfatigue : thus, weariness and wounds having renderedthem incapable even of flying, they were cut off to aman, and twenty-one standards taken. The Romansthen proceeded to Postumius' station, where the twovictorious armies falling on the enemy, already dis­mayed by the news of what had passed, routed and dis­persed them : twenty-six military standards were takenhere, and the Samnite general, Statius Gellius, with agreat number of other prisoners, and both the camps,fell into the hands of the conquerors. Next day Bovia-nuui was besieged, and soon after taken. Both theconsuls were honored with a triumph, and with highapplause of their excellent conduct. Some writers saythat the consul Minucius was brought back to the campgrievously wounded, and that he died there ; that Mar­cus Fulvius was substituted consul in his place, and