OCR Output MARSYABAE. 283 MARSYABAE. took (hem fifty days to traverse, through the faultof their guide; when they come to the city of theAgrani ('Ayparoi'), lying in a peaceful and fruitfulcountry. This they took; and after a march of sixdays, came to the river. Here, after a pitched battle,is which the Romans killed 10,000 Arabs, with theloss of only two men, they took the city called Asca(*A«a). then A thru 11a ("A0pouAAa), and proceededto Harsvabae of the Rhamanitae, then governed byHaunts, from which, as already mentioned, theycommenced their retreat by a much shorter route.Nine days brought them to Anagrana ('Avciypava),where the battle had been fought; eleven moreto the Seven Wells ('Ewra gycara), -o calledfrom the fact; then to a village named Chaalla(XdaXXa), and another named Malotha (MaAo'&i),— the latter situated on a river,—and through adesert with few watering-places to Nera or NegraCimie (N*pi K«>tij), on the sea-shore, subject toObodas. This retreat was accomplished in sixtydan; the advance had occupied six months. FromNera they sailed to Myos Hormus (Mvbs Souos)b eleven days. Thus far Strabo (xvi. p. 782).Flir>y is much more brief. He merely states thatGxlma destroyed towns not mentioned by previouswriters, Negra, Amnestrnm, Nesca, Magusa, Tam-aiicum. Labecia, the above-named Mariaba (i. c.the Mariaba of the Calingii, 3), and Caripeta, theremotest point which he reached. {Hist. Nat.vi 2S.) The only geographical point mentioned byDkm Cassius, who dwells chiefly on the sufferings ofthe anny, is that the important city of Athlula(Ad\ot>Aa) was the limit of this disastrous expe­dition. (Dion Caaa. liiL 29.) II. The variations of commentators on this nar­rative may be estimated by these facts: DeanVincent maintains that, " as Pliny says, that placeswhich occur in the expedition of Gall us are not foundia authors previous to his time, the same may beuid of subsequent writers; for there is not one oftorn, ancient or modern, who will do more thanaffi-rd matter for conjecture." (PeripL pp. 300,301.)Mr. Forstcr asserts, "Of the eight cities named byHioy, the names of two most clearly prove themto be the same with two of those mentioned byStrabo; ami that seven out of the eight stand, withmoral certainty, and the eighth with good proba-Bilitj, identified with as many Arab towns, stillaetuallj in being." {Geography of Arabia, vol. ii.a-310.) D'Anville and M. Fresnel (inf. cU.) con­duct the expedition to Ifadramaut, in the southerneaxnmity of the ]ieninsula; Gosselin does not extendit beyond the Hedjaz. (Recherche* tur la Geogra-ptiede* Ancient, torn. ii. p. 114.) But these va­rious tbeoriea require more distinct notice. 1. D'An-viilr, following Buchart (Chanaan, i. 44), identifiesLeuce Come with the modern Hawr or El-IIaura,« the Red Sea, a little north of the latitude ofsWmo, justifying the identification by the coinci­dence of meaning between the native and the Greekname*. Anagrana he fixes at Nageran or Kegran(AVrfrVoa), a town in the NE. of Yemen; con-■tcmly with which theory he makes the Marsyabaeof Strabo identical with the Mariaba of the samepecrspber; though Strabo makes the latter thecapital of the Sabaei, and assigns the former tothe Bhanvimlae. Finally, D'Anville places Chaallaat KoaoJan(.£7-CAa«i/a*), in the NW. extremity«t Yemen, and, therefore, as he presumes, on thefcoian line of retreat between Anagrana and the•**- (D'Anville Geographic aricienne abregee, torn. ii. pp. 216, 217, 223, 224). 2. Cossolin, asbefore noticed, maintains that the expedition did notpass beyond Arabia Deserta and the Hedjaz; thatthe Negra of Pliny = the Negran of Ptolemy =the modern Nokra or Maaden en-Nokra (in theNW. of Nedjd) ; that Pliny's Magusa = Megarish-uzzir (which he marks in his map NW. of Negra,and due East of Moilah, his Leuce (pp. 254, 255),perhaps identical with Dalir eUMaghair'm Hittersmap; that Tammacum in Pliny = Thaema in Pto­lemy = the modern Tima (which he places nearlydue north of Negra, between it and Magusa) =Teimd in Ritter, between Maaden en-Nokra andDahr el-Maghair; that Labccia = Laba of Ptolemy,which he does not place ; that Athrulla = Iathrippa[Lathrippa] in Ptolemy = Mcdineh ; that Ma­riaba in Pliny = Marsyabae in Strabo,=Macorabain Ptolemy = Mecca ; and lastly, that Caripeta, theextreme point according to Pliny, = Ararene inStrabo=modern Cariatain, in the heart of El-Nedjd.(Gosselin, I. c. pp. 113—116.) 3. Dean Vincent'sopinion on the difficulty of recovering any clue tothe line of march has already been stated ; but heventures the following conjectures, partly in agree­ment, and partly in correction, of the preceding.He adopts the Leuce Come of Gosselin, i. e. Moilah;the Anagrana or Negra of D'Anville, i.e. AW/rnnofYemen; and thinks that the country of the no-mades, called Ararthie, has a resemblance to theterritory of Medina and Mecca ; and that the spaceof fifty days employed in passing it, is some con­firmation of the conjecture. Marsyabae, he thinks,could not be Mariaba of the Tank; but takes it asthe general name for a capital,—in this case of theMineans,—which he suggests may correspond withthe Caripeta of Pliny, the Carna or Carana of Strabo,the capital of the MinGans, and the Cami-peta, orCarni-petra of modern geographers. The fact thatStrabo speaks of Carna as the capital of the Minaei,and places Marsyabae in the territory of the llha-manitae, is deposed of by the double hypothesis, thatif llasar is the king of this tribe, whether Calingii,Rhamanitae. or Elaesari, all three were comprehendedunder the title of Mineans. Of Nera, the termina­tion of the expedition, he remarks, that it being inthe country of Obodas, it must be within the limitsof Petraea; but, as no modern representative offers,it should be placed as far below (south of) LeuceCome as the province will admit. (Vincent, Periplwof the Erythrean Sea, vol. ii. pp. 290—311.) 4.M. Fresnel, long a resident in the country, thinksthat the Marsyabae of Strabo must be identical withthe Mariaba in Pliny's list of captured cities, thesame writer's Baramalacum, and Ptolemy's Manama;and that the Khamanitae of Strabo are the Rhamneiof Pliny, the Manitae of Ptolemy, one of the divi­sions of the Minaei, to which rather than to the otherdivision, the Charmaei, Mariaba Baramalacum shouldhave been assigned. In agreement with Vincent, hefinds the Marsyabae of Strabo in the capital of theMinaei, i. c. the Carana of Strabo and the CarnanRegia of Ptolemy, which he however finds in themodern Al-Ckam in the Wady Doan or Dawim(Kurein and Grein in Kieperts and Zimmerman'smaps), six or seven days' journey north of Mouk~a I lull, and in the heart of Iladrumaut. (Fresnel, inJournal Atiatigue, Juillet, 1840, 3me serie, torn. x.pp. 83—96. 177, &c.) He fancied that be reco­vered the Caripeta of Pliny in the site of Khour-aybah, also in the vicinity of Aloukallah (lb.p. 196). 5. Dcsvergers prefers the identification