OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 161 you received from Spain. These hopes are suggestedto me by the fortune of the Roman people, the godswho witnessed the treaty which the enemy have vio­lated, and the friendship of the kings, Syphax andMasinissa, to whom I shall look for aid while securingmyself against perfidy. The war will disclose manythings which do not appear now; and it is the businessof a general not to fail of improving the overtures offortune, and to convert casual occurrences to the ac­complishment of his designs. I shall, Quintus Fabius,have the antagonist whom you assign me, Hannibal:I shall compel him to fight in his own country, andCarthage rather shall be the prize than the half-ruinedforts of the Bruttians. With respect to the securityof the state, and that it should suffer no injury whileI am on my passage; while I am landing my army inAfrica; while I am marching forwards to Carthage;be careful in any assertion as to what you, QuintusFabius, were able to accomplish, at a time when Han­nibal was pursuing a rapid career of victory throughall parts of Italy; be mindful, I say, lest it be consi­dered as an insult, that you do not too freely affirm ofhim, that, shaken and almost broken in pieces, hisoverthrow by Publius Licinius the consul were easy,—a man, by the way, of the most consummate valor, andwho declined the lot of so distant a province as Africa,only because, being chief pontiff, he must not be ab­sent from his religious duties. In fact, even thoughthe war were not to be brought to a speedier conclu­sion by the method which I propose, still it wouldconcern the dignity of the Roman people, and theirreputation among foreign kings and nations, that weshould appear to have spirit, not only to defend Italy,but to carry our arms into Africa; and that it shouldnot be spread abroad, and believed, that no Romangeneral dared what Hannibal had dared; and that, inthe former Punic war, when the contest was aboutSicily, Africa had been often attacked by our fleetsand armies; but that now, when the contest is aboutItaly, Africa should enjoy peace. Let Italy, so longLiv. vol. v. I.