OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII. ' have courage ; for while the Roman legions were inbeing, no man should offer him violence.' Not longafter the dictator arrived, and instantly summoned anassembly by sound of trumpet. Then silence beingmade, a crier cited Quintus Fabius, master of thehorse, and as soon as, on the lower ground, he hadapproached the tribunal, the dictator said, ' QuintusFabius, I demand of you, when the authority of dic­tator is acknowleged to be supreme, and is submittedto by the consuls, officers endowed with regal power ;and likewise by the pretors, created under the sameauspices with consuls ; whether or no you think itreasonable that it should not meet obedience from amaster of the horse ? I also ask you whether, when Iknew that I set out from home under uncertain aus­pices, it was for me, under that consideration, to ha­zard the safety of the commonwealth, or whether myduty did not require me to have the auspices newlytaken, so that nothing might be done while the will ofthe gods remained doubtful? And farther, when a re­ligious scruple was of such a nature as to hinder thedictator from acting, whether the master of the horsecould be exempt from it, and at liberty ? But why doI ask these questions, when, supposing that I had gonewithout leaving any orders, your own judgment oughtto have been regulated according to what you coulddiscover of my intention? Why do you not answer?Did I not forbid you to act, in any respect, during myabsence ? Did I not forbid you to engage the enemy ?Yet, in contempt of these my orders, while the aus­pices were uncertain, while the omens were confused,contrary to the practice of war, contrary to the disci­pline of our ancestors, and contrary to the authority ofthe gods, you dared to enter on the fight. Answer tothese questions proposed to you. On any other mat­ter utter not a word. Lictor, draw near him.' Toeach of these particulars Fabius, finding it no easymatter to answer, at one time remonstrated againstthe same person acting as accuser and judge, in acause which affected his very existence; at another,