OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 385 contemporary with king Alexander in his youth, and after­wards was with Ptolemy the son of Lagus: he did not writeabout the Jewish affairs by the by only, but composed anentire book concerning the Jews themselves, out of whichbook I am willing to run over a few things, of which I havebeen treating, by way of epitome. And, in the first place,I will demonstrate the time when this IIecateus lived; for hementions the fight that was between Ptolemy and Demetriusabout Gaza, which was fought on the eleventh year after thedeath of Alexander, and on the hundred and seventeenthOlympiad, as Castor says in his history. For when he hadset down this Olympiad, he says farther, — "That on thisOlympiad, Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, beat in battle Deme­trius, the son of Antigonus, who was named Poliorcetes, atGaza." Now it is agreed by all, that Alexander died on thehundred and fourteenth Olympiad ; it is, therefore, evident,that our nation flourished in his time and in the time of Alex­ander. Again, Hecateus says, to the same purpose, as fol­lows :—" Ptolemy got possession of the places in Syria afterthat battle at Gaza; and many, when they heard of Ptolemy'smoderation and humanity, went along with him to Egypt,and were willing to assist him in his affairs: one of which,"Hecateus says, "was Hezekiah,1 the high-priest of the Jews;a man of about sixty-six years of age, and in great dignityamong his own people. He was a very sensible man, andcould speak very movingly, and was very skilful in themanagement of affairs, if any other man ever were so;although, as he says, all the priests of the Jews took tithesof the products of the earth, and managed public affairs, andwere in number not above fifteen hundred at the most."Hecateus mentions this Hezekiah a second time, and says,that " as he was possessed of so great a dignity, and was be­come familiar with us, so did he take certain of those that 1 This Hezekiah, who is here called a high-priest, is not named in Jose-phus's catalogue; the real high-priest at that time being rather Onias, asArchbishop Usher supposes. However, Josephus often uses the word high-priest in the plural number, as living many at the same time. Sec the not*on Antiq. B. xx. ch. viii. sect. 8. IV. —33