OCR Output 120 UVY. exhibit a show of gladiators, which he had prepared incommemoration of the death of his father and uncle.The combatants exhibited on this occasion were not ofthat sort which the lanistae are wont to procure, a col­lection of slaves, or such free men as are base enoughto set their blood to sale. Every champion here gavehis service voluntarily, and without reward; for somewere sent by the princes of the country to show a spe­cimen of the bravery natural to their nation; somedeclared that they would fight to oblige the general;some were led by emulation and a desire of supe­riority to send challenges; and those who were chal­lenged, from the same motive, did not decline them;some decided by the sword controversies which theycould not, or would not, determine by arbitration,having agreed between themselves that the matter indispute should be the property of the conqueror. Notonly people of obscure condition, but men of charac­ter and distinction; Corbis and Orsua, for instance,cousins-german, having a dispute about the sove­reignty of a city called Ibis, determined to decide itwith the sword. Corbis had the advantage in regardto years. The father of Orsua, however, had been laston the throne, having succeeded to it on the death ofhis elder brother. Scipio endeavored to accommodatethe matter by calm discussion, and to assuage theirresentment; but they both affirmed that they had re­fused to submit it to their common relations, and thatthey would have no other judge, neither god nor man,but Mars. They severally preferred death in fight toa submission to the other's authority, the elder confi­dent in his strength, the younger in his activity; andso determined was their rage, that it was impossible toreconcile them. They afforded an extraordinary spec­tacle to the army, and a striking example of the evils oc­casioned by ambition. The elder, by experience in armsand superior skill, easily vanquished the ill-managedvalor of the younger. To this exhibition of gladiatorswere added funeral games, conducted with as much mag­nificence as the province and the camp could supply.