OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 401 Under all these circumstances even a taxation moderatein theory might become extremely oppressive in its actualoperation; and that it was so is beyond doubt, althoughthe financial oppression, which the Italian merchants andbankers exercised over the provinces, was probably felt as afar heavier burden on them than the taxation with all theabuses that attached to it. All things considered, the income which Rome drew from Aggregate 11the provinces was not properly a taxation of the subjects in financial 11the sense which we now attach to that expression, butresult-rather in the main a revenue that may be compared withthe Attic tributes, by means of which the leading statedefrayed the expense of the military system which it main­tained. This explains the singularly small amount of thegross as well as of the net proceeds. There exists a state­ment, according to which the income of Rome, exclusive, itmay be presumed, of the Italian revenues and of the grainsupplied in kind to Italy by the decumani, up to 691 amounted 6>i.to not more than 200 millions of sesterces (£2,055.000);that is only two-thirds of the sum which the king of Egyptdrew from his country annually. The proportion can onlyseem strange at the first glance. The Ptolemies turned toaccount the valley of the Nile as great plantation-owners,and drew immense sums from their monopoly of the com­mercial intercourse with the East; the Roman treasury wasnot much more than the joint military chest of the com­munities united under Rome's protection. The net producewas probably still less in proportion. The only provincesyielding a considerable surplus were perhaps Sicily, wherethe Carthaginian system of taxation prevailed, and moreespecially Asia from the time that Gaius Gracchus, inorder to provide for his largesses of corn, had carried outthe confiscation of the soil and a general domanial taxationthere. According to manifold testimonies the finances ofthe Roman state were essentially dependent on the revenuesof Asia. The assertion sounds quite credible that the otherprovinces on an average cost nearly as much as they broughtin; in fact those which required a considerable garrison,such as the two Spains, Transalpine Gaul, and Macedonia,probably often cost more than they yielded. On the wholecertainly the Roman treasury in ordinary times possessed asurplus, which enabled them amply to defray the expense ofthe buildings of the state and city, and to accumulate a VOL. III. 2 D r