OCR Output A. D. 15.] 55 OF TACITUS. " that upstart emperor, keeps aloof from Germany," shall we, who have dared nobly for our liberties," shrink from a boy void of experience, and an army"ruined by their own divisions? If your country is" dear to you, if the glory of your ancestors is near"your hearts, if liberty is of any value, if the enjoy-"ment of your natural rights is preferable to new" masters, and foreign colonies, follow Arminius. I" will marshal you the way to glory and to freedom." Segestes has nothing in store but infamy, chains,"and bondage." LX. By these incendiary speeches all Germany twas roused to action. The Cheruscans took up arms iind the neighbouring states followed their example.Inguiomer, a man long known, and high in the esti足mation of the Romans, declared in favour of Armi足nius: he was uncle to that chieftain. By adopting hismeasures, he added strength to the confederacy. Ger-manicus saw the impending danger. To cause a di- , version, and avoid the united strength of the enemy,he ordered Csecina, with forty Roman cohorts, topenetrate into the territory of the Bructerians as faras the river Amisia. Pedo, at the head of the cavalry,was directed to march along the confines of the Fri- ' sians. Germanicus, with four legions, embarked onthe lakes. One common place of destination was ap足pointed: the foot, the cavalry, and the fleet, arrivedin due time. The Chaucians joined the RTSman army;the Bructerians set fire to their houses, and abandonedtheir country. Lucius Stertinius, with a detachmentof the light horse, was ordered to pursue the fugitives.That officer came up with the enemy, and put thewhole body to the rout. Amidst the slaughter thatfollowed, some of the soldiers were intent on plunder.Among the spoils was found the eagle of the nine足teenth legion, lost in the massacre of Varus. The armypushed on with vigour to the farthest limit of thoBructerians. The whole country between the riverAmisia and the Luppia, was made a desert. TheRomans were now at a small distance from the forestof Teutoburgium, where the bones of Vams and hislegions were said to be still unburied.