OCR Output C. III.] SEDITIONS IN JERUSALEM. 169 CHAPTER III. HOW THE SEDITION' WAS AGAIN REVIVED WITHIN JERUSALEM,AND YET TnE JEWS CONTRIVED SNARES FOR THE ROMANS :HOW TITUS ALSO THREATENED HIS SOLDIERS FOR THEIRUNGOVERNABLE RASHNESS. § 1. As now the war abroad ceased for awhile, the sedi­tion within was revived; and on the feast of unleavenedbread, which was now come, it being the fourteenth day ofthe month Xanthicus [Nisan,] when it is believed the Jewswere first freed from the Egyptians, Eleazar and his partyopened the gates of this [inmost court of the] temple, andadmitted such of the people1 as were desirous to worship Godinto it. But John made use of this festival as a cloak for histreacherous designs, and armed the most inconsiderable ofhis own party, the greater part of which were not purified,with weapons concealed under their garments, and sent themwith great zeal into the temple, in order to seize upon it,which armed men, when they were gotten in, threw their gar­ments away, and presently appeared in their armor: uponwhich there was a very great disorder and disturbance about 1 Here we see the true occasion of those vast numbers of Jews that werein Jerusalem during this siege by Titus, and perished therein ; that the siegebegan at the feast of the Passover, when such prodigious multitudes of Jewsand proselytes of the gate were come from all parts of Judea, and from othercountries, in order to celebrate that great festival. See the note, B. vi.chap. ix. sect. 3. Tacitus himself informs us, that the number of men, wo­men, and children in Jerusalem, when it was besieged by the Romans, as hohad been informe'l, was 600.000. This information must have been takenfrom the Romans; for Josephus never mentions the number of those thatwere besieged, only he lets us know, that of the vulgar, carried dead out ofthe gates and buried at the public charges, was the like number of 600,000,chap. xiii. sect. 7. However, when Cestius Callus came first to the siege,that sum in Tacitus is no way disagreeable to Josephus's history, thoughthey were become much more numerous when Titus encompassed the city atthe Passover. As to the number that perished during the siege, Josephusassures us, as we shall see hereafter, they were 1,100,000, besides 97,000captives; but Tacitus's history of the last part of this siege is not now ex­tant, so we cannot compare his parallel numbers with those in Joscphue. IV. —15