OCR Output AN. 1219.] 171 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. But he did not admit of their intreaty; andaccused them, that they did not come to hisassistance when he was unjustly treated, andthis in an open manner, by his brethren. Forthey cast him off, as not having the samemother with the rest, but born of a strangemother, that was introduced among them byhis father's fondness; and this they did out ofa contempt of his inability to vindicate him­self. So he dwelt in the country of Gilead,as it is called; and received all that came tohim, let them come from what place soever,and paid them wages. However, when theypressed him to accept the dominion, andsware that they would grant him the govern­ment all his life, he led them to the war.* When Jephtha had taken immediate care oftheir affairs,f he placed his army at the cityMispeh, and sent a message to the Ammoniteking, complaining of his unjust possession oftheir land. But that king sent a contrarymessage, and complained of the exodus of theIsraelites out of Egypt; and desired him togo out of the land of the Amorites, and yieldit up to him, as his paternal inheritance. ButJephtha returned this answer; that he did notjustly complain of his ancestors about theland of the Amorites, and ought rather tothank them, that they left the land of the Am­monites to them; since Moses could have ta­ken it also; and that neither would he recedefrom that land of their own, which God hadobtained for them; and they had now in­habited:): above three hundred years; butwould fight with them about it. When he had given this answer, he sentthe ambassadors away. And when he hadprayed for victory, and had|| vowed to per­form sacred offices; and if he came home insafety, to offer in sacrifice whatever livingcreature should first meet him, he joinedbattle with the enemy, and gained a great victory; and in the pursuit slew the enemiesall along, as far as the city Minnith. He thenpassed over the land of the Ammonites, andoverthrew many of their cities, and took theirprey, and freed his own people from that sla­very which they had undergone for eighteenyears. But as he came back, he fell into acalamity no way correspondent to the greatactions he had performed. For it was hisdaughter that came to meet him; she wasalso an only child, and a virgin. Upon thisJephtha heavily lamented the greatness of hisaffliction, and blamed his daughter for beingso forward in meeting him; for he had vowedto sacrifice her to God. However, this acci­dent that was to befall her, was not ungratefulto her, since she should die upon occasion ofher father's victory, and the liberty of herfellow-citizens. She only desired her fatherto give her leave for two months to bewail heryouth, with her companions; and then sheagreed, that at the aforementioned time hemight do with her according to his vow.§Accordingly when that time was over, he sa­crificed his daughter as a burnt-offering; offer­ing such an oblation as was neither conform­able to the law, nor acceptable to God; norweighing with himself what opinion thehearers would have of such a practice. Now the tribe of Ephraim fought againsthim. because he did not take them along withhim in his expedition against the Ammonites;but because he alone had the prey, and theglory of what was done to himself. In an­swer to their accusation, he said, first, thatthey were not ignorant, how his kindred hadfought against him, and that when they wereinvited they did not come to his assistance;whereas they ought to have come quickly,even before they were invited. And in thenext place, that they were going to act un­justly; for while they had not courage enough * Judg. -xi. 11. t An/1201. J Most copies want the word above. By Josephus'slarge chronology it was much above 300 years'; but bythe best chronology it was but 291 years; which in around number, are justly called 300 years. II Josephu« justly condemns Jephtha, as do the Aposto­lical Constitutions, VII. 37. for his rash vow; whether it-were for sacrificing his daughter, as Josephus thought; orfor dedicating her, who was his only child, to perpetualvirginity, at the tabernacle, or elsewhere ; which I rathersuppose. If he had vowed her for a sacrifice she oughtto have been redeemed; Levit. xxvii. 1—8, but of the VOL. 1.—NOS. 15 & 16 sense of verses 28, 29, as relating not to things vowed toGod, but devoted to destruction, see note on V. 1. N. B. It here deserves to be remarked, that in theApostolical Constitutions, VII. 37. we have it distinctlyobserved among the many prayers of good men that wereheard of God, that the sacrifices and prayers of Gideon,both at the rock and the fleeces, were accepted only be­fore his sins: of Sampson in his thirst before his trans­gression; of Jephtha in the war before his rash vow; of Manasseh in the land of the Chaldeans after his trans­gression was repented of; but not otherwise; which factsare all true in the Old Testament History. § Judg. xi. 27.