OCR Output P. 36. ROMAN HISTORY. 253 They durst not however, oppose his ambitious viewsin a direct manner, but ihey endeavoured to counterplothim by a feigned compliance. As the youngest amongthem, by one consent, they choosed him to preside inthe assembly at the general election. The design of thiswas, to put it out of his power to put himself upon thelist, a thing quite unprecedented, except among thetribunes, and even then, considered as an instance of thegrossest impropriety. However, he declared he wouldhold the Comitia, which he hoped would prove fortu­nate, and turned the obstacles laid in his way into theme<-us of success. For, having by his intrigues got thetwo Quinctii set aside, with Capitolinus, Cincinnatus hisuncle, C. Claudius, a man, who had shewu himself alwaysin the interest of the nobility, and other citizens of thesame distinction, he created men decemvirs, who weretheir interiors in every respect; having, moreover, puthimself first in nomination, a circumstance that to everygood man, appeared so shameful, that nobody imaginedhe would have carried his impudence to so extraordmaryan height. The other nine were M. Cornelius Malugi-nensis, M. Sergius, L. Minucius, Q,. Fabius Vibulanus,Q. Pretelius, T. Antonius Merenda, Caeso Duilius, Sp.Oppius, Cornicen, M. Rubuleius. CHAP. XXXVI. i • iVillainy of the Decemvirs. A. R. 305. JTIERE Appius threw off the mask: frora this date, bebegan to aci more consistently with' his real character,and took care, that his new colleagues, even before theyentered upon office, should all be formed upon his ownmodel. They had private meetings every day, in whichthey concerted schemes of tyranny, which they conceal­ed from all mankind, and now far from dissembling theirpride, they became accessible to few, and even thosethey treated with the utmost reserve, till the ides of May;at that time,, the usual term of entering upon office. Thevery first day, they made their official parade, filled thewhole city with terror and consternation. They appear­ed in the forum, each with twelve lictors before hirri,M