OCR Output CHAP. LF. 355 which had been idly spent in domestic quarrels, was vi­gorously directed against a foreign enemy. Had theimpulse been less powerful, Arabia, free at home, andformidable abroad, might have flourished under a suc­cession of her native monarchs. Her sovereignty waslost by the extent and rapidity of conquest. The colo­nies of the nation were scattered over the east and west,and their blood was mingled with the blood of their con­verts and captives. After the reign of three caliphs, thethrone was transported from Medina to the valley ofDamascus and the banks of the Tigris; the holy citieswere violated by impious war: Arabia was ruled by therod of a subject, perhaps of a stranger; and the Bedo-weens of the desert, awakening from their dream of do­minion, resumed their old and solitary independence.* CHAP. U. The conquest of Persia, Syria, Egypt, Africa, and Spain, by theArabs or Saracens. — Empire of the caliphs, or successors of Ma­homet — State of the Christians, &c. under their government. Union of revolution of Arabia had not changed the the Arabs, character of the Arabs; the death of Mahomet''was the signal of independence; and the hastystructure of his power and religion tottered to its foun­dations. A small and faithful band of his primitivedisciples had listened to his eloquence, and shared hisdistress; had fled with the apostle from the persecution 'The writers of the Modem Universal History (vol. 1. and 2.) have compiled,in eight hundred and fifty folio pages, the life of Mahomet and the annals of the ca­liphs. They enjoyed the advantage of reading, and sometimes correcting theArabic text; yet, notwithstanding their high-sounding boasts, I cannot find, afterthe conclusion of my work, that they have afforded me much, if any, additional in­formation. The dull mass is not quickened by a spark of philosophy or taste ; andthe compilers indulge the criticism of acrimonious bigotry against Boulainvilliers,Sale, Cagnies, aid all who even treated Mahomet with favour, or c-v en justice. 2 A 2