OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL ca might applaud the success and spirit of the faithful, who had already lost sightof the northern bear, and had almost transcended the bounds of the habitableworld. (1) Again turning towards the west and the Roman empire, they repassedthe Tigris over the bridge of Mosul, and, in the captive provinces of Armenia andMesopotamia, embraced their victorious brethren of the Syrian army. From thepalace of Madayn their eastern progress was not less rapid or extensive. Theyadvanced along the Tigris and the gulf; penetrated through the passes of themountains into the valley of Estachar or Persepolis; and profaned the last sanc­tuary of the Magian empire. The grandson of Chosroes was nearly surprisedamong the falling columns and mutilated figures; a sad emblem of the past andpresent fortune of Persia:(2) he fled with accelerated haste over the desert of Kir-man,'implored the aid of the warlike Segestans, and sought an humble refuge onthe verge of the Turkish and Chinese power. But a victorious army is insensibleof fatigue: the Arabs divided their forces in the pursuit of a timorous enemy; andthe caliph Othman promised the government of Chorasan to the first general whoshould enter that large and populous country, the kingdom of the ancient Bac-trians. The condition was accepted; the prize was deserved; the standard of Ma­homet was planted on the walls of Herat, Merou, and Balch; and the successfulleader neither halted nor reposed till his foaming cavalry had tasted the waters ofthe Oxus. In the public anarchy, the independent governors of the cities andcastles obtained their separate capitulations; the terms were granted or imposedby the esteem, the prudence, or the compassion of the victors; and a simple pro­fession of faith established the distinction between a brother and a slave. Aftera noble defence, Harmozan, the prince or satrap of"Ahwaz and Susa, was com­pelled to surrender his person and his state to the discretion of the caliph; andtheir interview exhibits a portrait of the Arabian manners. In the presence, andby the command of Omar, the gay barbarian was despoiled of his silken robes em­broidered with gold, and of his tiara bedecked with rubies and emeralds. " Are ?rau now sensible," said the conqueror to his naked captive, "are you now sensi-)le of the judgment of God, and of the different rewards of infidelity and obedi- ,ence?" " Alas!" replied Harmozan, " I feel them too deeply. In the days of ourcommon ignorance, we fought with the weapons of the flesh, and my nation wassuperior. God was then neuter: since he has espoused your quarrel, you havesubverted our kingdom and religion." Oppressed by this painful dialogue, thePersian complained of intolerable thirst, but discovered some apprehensions lesthe should be killed whilst he was drinking a cup of water. " Be of good courage,"said the caliph, " your life is safe till you have drank this water;" the crafty satrapaccepted the assurance, and instantly dashed the vase against the ground. Omarwould have avenged the deceit; but his companions represented the sanctity ofan oath; and the speedy conversion of Harmozan entitled him not only to a freepardon, but even to a stipend of two thousand pieces of gold. The administrationof Persia was regulated by an actual survey of the people, the cattle, and thefruits of the earth ;(3) and this monument, which attests the vigilance of the ca­liphs, might have instructed the philosophers of every age.(4) The flight of Yezdegerd had carried him beyond the Oxus, and as far as theJaxavtes, two rivers(S) of ancient and modern renown, which descend from themountains of India towards the Caspian sea. He was hospitably entertained byTarkhan, prince of Fargana,(6) a fertile province on the Jaxartes; the king of Sa­ to Ic is in such a style of ignorance and wonder that the Athenian orator describes the Arctic conquest! ofAlexander, who never advances beyond the shores of the Caspian, A**!:xvJpo? ms «pxrou ui m; oixcwumkaltymSiiv, muriK /*i&ijTT»ixsi. Esrhines contra Ctesiphontem, torn. iii. p.554.edit. Grace. Orator. Reiske. This me­morable cause was pleaded at Athens, Olymp. 112. 3., (before Chnst 300) in the autumn (Tayler, praefat. p.370, &c.) about a year after the battle of Arbclal and Alexander, in the pursuit of Darius, was marching to­wards Hyrcania and Bactriana. (2) We are indebted for this curious particular to the Dynasties of Ahulpharagitis, p. 118. but it is needlessto prove the identity of Estachar and Persepolis (d'Herbelot, p. 327.) and still more needless to copy the draw­ing* and descriptions of Sir John Chardin, or Corneille le Bruyn. (3) After the conquest of Persia, Theophones, adds, «u™ y; Tw xpova fxs\nj<rt, Cvuxeo, av%yp*&nnt snsnsv -rt* uir <euTCv OIXM/Uvxv. eysMTO £l ») stvxypx$x xxi avBpoiruiv xo»i xtkvwv xxi Juimv, (Chronograph, p. 283.) (4) Amidst our meagre relations, I must regret, that d'Herbelot has not found and used a Persian translationof Tabari, enriched, as he says, with many extracts from the native historians of the Ghebers or Magi. (Biblio-theque Orientate, p. 1014.) (5) The most authentic accounts of the two rivers, the Sihon, (Jaxartes) and the Gihon, (Oxus,) may be foundin Sherif al Edrisi, (Geograph. Kubiens. p. 138.) Abulfeda, Descript. Chorasan. in Hudson, torn. iii. p. 23.)Abulghazi Khan, who reigned on their banks, (Hist. Genealogique ties Tartars, p. 32. 57.700.) and the Turk­ish Geographer, a MS. in tho king of France's library. (Examen Critique des Huloriens d' Alexander, p. 194 (6) The territory of Fargana is described by Abulfeda, p. W, 77.