OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. If9 despair. A respite of three days, obtained with difficulty from therapacious treasurer, was employed in collecting from their estates agreat number of slaves and peasants, blindly devoted to the com­mands of their lords, and armed with the rustic weapons of clubsand axes. The leaders of the conspiracy, as they were admittedto the audience of the procurator, stabbed him with the daggersconcealed under their garments, and, by the assistance of their tu­multuary train, seized on the little town of Thysdrus and erectedthe standard of rebellion against the sovereign of the Roman em­pire. They rested their hopes on the hatred of mankind againstMaximin, and they judiciously resolved to set up in opposition tothat detested tyrant, an emperor whose mild virtues had already ac­quired the love and esteem of the Romans, and whose authorityover the province would give weight and stability to the enterprise*CrOrdianus, their proconsul, and the object of their choice, re­fused, with unfeigned reluctance, the dangerous honour, and beggedWith tears that they would suffer him to terminate in peace alongand innocent life, without staining his feeble age with civil blood.Their menaces compelled him to accept the Imperial purple, hisonly refuge indeed against the jealous cruelty of Maximin; since,according to the reasoning of tyrants, those who have been esteemedworthy of the throne deserve death, and those who deliberate havealready rebelled **. The family of Gordianus was one of the most illustrious of the charafierandRoman senate. On the father's side. he was descended from the the two Gor., Gracchi, onlus mother's, from the emperor Trajan. A great estate d anS*enabled him to support the dignity of his birth, and, in the enjoy­ment of it, he displayed an elegant taste and beneficent disposition.The palace in Rome-, formerly inhabited by the great Pompey, hadbeenr during several generations, in. the post^slion of Gordian's fa­mily '*. h Was distinguished by ancient trophies of naval victories,and decorated with the works of modern painting. His villa on the A a 2 road