OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 501 Galatian, who after his baptism had repeatedly sacrificed to idols*might obtain his pardon by a penance of seven years, and-ifhe had seduced others to imitate his example, only three yearsmore were added to the term of his exile. But the unhappySpaniard, who had committed the fame offence, was deprived ofthe hope of reconciliation, even in the article of death; and hisidolatry was placed at the head of a list of seventeen other crimes^against which a sentence no less terrible was pronounced. Among,these we may distinguish the inexpiable guilt of calumniating abishop, a presbyter, or even a deacon '*6. The well tempered mixture of liberality and rigour, the judicious The dignity-dispensation of rewards and punishments, according to the maxims of eP:koPa , r . - . . government.. of policy as well as justice, constituted the human strength of thechurch. The bishops, whose paternal care extended itself to thegovernment of both worlds, were sensible of the importance ofthese prerogatives, and covering their ambition with the fair pre­tence of the love of order, they were jealous of any rival in theexercise of a discipline so necessary to prevent the desertion ofthose troops which had inlisted themselves under the banner of thecross, and whose numbers every day became more considerable.From the imperious declamations of Cyprian, we should naturallyconclude, that the doctrines of excommunication and penanceformed the most essential part of religion; and that it was muchless dangerous for the disciples of Christ to neglect the observance ofthe moral duties, than to despise the censures and authority oftheir bishops. Sometimes we might imagine that we were listeningto the voice of Moses, when he commanded the earth to open,and to swallow up,, in consuming flames, the rebellious race whichrefused obedience to the priesthood of Aaron; and we should some­times suppose that we heard a Roman consul asserting the majesty©f the republic, and declaring his inflexible resolution to enforcethe rigour of the laws. ** If such irregularities are suffered with. • * impunity