OCR Output ». IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 359 and his army. And as soon as he was met at Melitia ofAchaea by Panaerus, and Dorus, and Hippolochidas, and To­ry laus, and Strophacus, who had been formerly the publichost of the Chalcideans, he continued his march forwards.Others also of the Thessalians assisted in conducting him,and from Larissa Niconidas the friend of Perdiccas. Thepassage through Thessaly without proper guides is alwaysdifficult, and must be more so to an armed body. Besides,to attempt such a thing through a neighbouring dominionwithout permission first obtained, hath ever been regardedby all the Grecians with a jealous eye, and the bulk of theThessalians had been ever well-affected to the Athenians.Nor could Brasidas have possibly effected it, had not theThessalian been rather despotic than free governments. Forupon his route he was stopped at the river Enipeus by someof contrary sentiments to the rest of their countrymen, whoordered him to proceed at his peril, and taxed him with in­justice in having come so far without the general permis­sion. His conductors told them in return, that " without" such permission he should not proceed; but, as he had" come amongst them on a sudden, they thought themselves" obliged in friendship to conduct him." Brasidas also gavethem strong assurances, that " he was come thither for the" service of Thessaly and of them ; that his arms were not" intended against them, but against the common enemy," the Athenians; that he never suspected any enmity be-" tween Thessalians and Lacedaemonians, why they might" not tread upon one another's ground; that even now," should they withhold their consent, he was neither willing" nor indeed able to proceed ; but he conj ured them" however to give him no molestation." Having heardthese declarations, they acquiesced and withdrew. Brasi­das now, by the advice of his conductors, advanced with theutmost speed without ever halting, in order to anticipate freshand more potent obstruction. Nay, the very same day thathe left Melitia, he advanced as far as to Pharsalus, and en­camped upon the banks of the Apidanus. From thence he