OCR Output CHAP. 22. ROMAN HISTORY. 4T Caius Cluilius presided then at Alba. To demand re­stitution, ambassadors were sent much about the sametime, from bcjth courts. The Romans were strictly enjoined by Tullus, not tolose a moment in executing their commission, becausebeing convinced they would mce* with a retusal, hewould thereby be furnished with a plausible pretence fordeclaring war. The Alban ambassadors were not soalert, they were received by Tuilus with much civilityand respect, and enjoyed themselves with him in all thepleasures ot social festivity; the Romans, in the meantime, havingfirst demanded restitution, and that bemg re­fused them, declared war within thirty days, and returnedwith the news to Tullus. Then the Alban ambassadorswere admitted to an audience, when the design of theirembassy was inquired into. Being ignorant of all thathad past, they began with long apologies, " That it was"with the utmost reluctance they should be obliged"to express themselves in any manner disagrreable to"Tullus, and that nothing could have laid them under"that necessity, but the orders of their state.—In one"word, they had come to demand restitution, and in"case of refusal, to declare war." Tuilus answered: " Tell your master, that the king"of the Romans appeals to the gods, whether Rome \"or Alba did first contemptuously dismiss the other's"ambassadors demanding satisfaction, that upon that"nation, they may heap all the calamities of this war."The Albans return and deliver the message. Both parties now exert their utmost in making pre­parations for war \—a war indeed, that had the nearestresemblance to that carried on between factipjjs of the- same community, or rather of the same fan»ly\i^for bothwere of Trojan extraction, because Lavinium was ofTroy, Alba of La^jnium, and the'Romans were the raceof the Atban kings.-* But the manner in which the con­test was decided, prevented the effusion of much blood,for they never came to a general engagement: and bothnations became one people, at the expence only of thehouses of one city, which were demolished. The Albanswere first in the field, and entering the Ronran territory,with a prodigious army, encamped and entrenched