OCR Output BOMA. 835 ROMA. re ipp&ti were twofold; it wired for gymnastica! nrlika exercises, and also for larpe political as-»cibj» of the people, as the cow*itin and contiones.At fat it must have been a completely open fieldrat <ah/a few Mattered sacred places upon it;n! J «u not till the 6lh century of the city thatirtjr temples began to be built there. By de-pn il became covered with buildings, except inan i«rt devoted to the public games and exercises,laiwfecisUy the eowrva, or horse-races, institutedn tanohu in honour of Mars. (Varr. L. L. vi.[13; hoL Diac p. 81.) The spot where thesestytia'it indicated by Grid {Fait. iii. 519): — * Afcera jroimneo spectabis Equina campoQuoa Tiberis ranis in latus urgct aquis.Qui tames rjecta si forte tenebitur undaCsrliua arcipiet pulverulentus equus." Tli put of the Campus the side of which mayr aid to be "pressed upon " by the stream of the'«r, it that lying between IHazut Navona andr 'M^k of S. A ngela, where the ground forms an<:* dtfnM to the descending waters. Here alsou tfct bathing-place of the Roman youth. (Uor.Hi. 7.14; Com p. Cic. pro Coel 19.)lax writers hare assumed that this spot wasfvdnt as forming a distinct division called Cam-:< uixox, whilst the remainder of the plain ■ a/led C ah its Major. (Preilcr, Regional,1W; Urlichs, Rom. Manfeld, p. 19; Canina,*. fp.384, 412.) But this dUinction does> 'ppur to rest on adequate authority. It isn«i frum a passage in Catullus: "Te campoa»v tores minore" (liii. (lv.). 3); and from 1 'W in Strabo, quoted in the former part of this |tei;. where, is describing the Campus Marti us,•t»b of soother field, or plain, near it (wAn-w t mrti rev rtSlov rovrov cat &AAo rtliov, ko!'mi rtuiwA»0«7», a. t. A.). But, as Becker■rm (Bmdb. p. 599), Strabo has already dc-the Campus Marti us aa the usual place forsaatfic exercises, and therefore his &AAo nthiovuw bt the part of it just described. It seems ■ probable that be meant the Campus Flaminius,tr-i nil rrtained its ancient name, though for the * fart covered with the porticoes and other build. * *bch be describes ; just as we have a Moor-«■ ud Goodman's Fields in the heart of London,i I'uipas Minor of Catullus may have been then?ta Martialia on the Caelian ; or, as Prellerwto,the punctuation may be:— * Te campo quaesiviinus, minoreTe in circo. T» tacieat loci religion on the Campus Martius"lit following: — The I'alus Cafreae, orrtAX. ahere Kornulua is said to have disappeared*t to» holding of an assembly of the people: itsBum a unknown; but it does not seem im-htfe, aa PreUer suggests (Regional, p. 137),»i» she any have been marked by tlte Aedicula■nuttu, mentioned in the Sotitia in the 7thDoc, taui th»t it may consequently have lainfcwtwn aader the Quirinal. (Liv. i. 16; Ov.■t h. 441, Ac.) A place called Takentum, orscma. which appears to have been volcaniceaau ipafc), with a subterranean Aka Di ns<m< rr I'iuktbtixae, where the ludi saecularee ■ aatforaMd. The legend of Valesius and hiswere, sad an account of the institution of the••a. »Ui be found in the IHciionary of Antiqvi- hies, p. 716. We are here only concerned for the situ­ation of the place, which is very variously assignedby different writers. Urlichs placed it in the ForumBoarium, which, however, mnst be wrong, as it wasundoubtedly in the Campus Martius (Val. Max. ii.4. § 5; Festus, p. 329), though at one extremity ofit. (Zos. ii. 4.) Hence Becker placed it near themausoleum of Augustus, being led to this conclusionby the Sibylline oracle recorded by Zosimus (i t.):— 'Pc'ff fv eV ittiltf wood QiftSptoos iirKtrov Vowp "Oirwp ffTeuvoVoTOK. Becker refers the word o-T«o»oVaToi' in this pas­sage to weStov, and hence selects the northern partof the Campus for the site of Tarentum, as beingthe narrowest. But it may equally well refer toHSup; and the narrowest part of the Tiber in itscourse through the Campus Martius — taking thatappellation in its more extended sense—is where itis divided by the Insula Tiberina. Other passagesadduced are undecisive, as those of Ovid (Fail, i.501) and Seneca (de Morte Claudii, 13); andtherefore though Preller (Reyionen, Anhang, p. 241)pronounces against Becker's site, we must leave thequestion undetermined. The Aha Martis, near which, when the comitiawere ended the newly-elected censors took theirseats in curule chairs, was probably the earliest holyplace dedicated to the god on the Campus whichbore his name. We liave already observed, whentreating of the Porta Fontinalis, that it must havebeen near that gate, and that it was perhaps erectedby Numa. There was also an Agues Martis onthe Campus, probably at the spot where the equinawere celebrated. (Dion Cass. lvL 24; Ov. Fast. ii.855.) It seems to have been a distinct templefrom that already mentioned in the Circus Fla­minius. The site of the Tkmtle of the LaresPermakim, dedicated by the censor M. AemilinsLepidus, B.C. 179, in pursuance of a vow made byL. Aemilius Itegillus after his naval victory over thefleet of Antiochus, cannot be determined (Liv. xL52; Macrob. SaL i. 1U); but it may probably havestood, as Preller conjectures, near the Navalia.Tbe Aei>RS Jittknak, built by Q. Lutatius Cs-tulus towards the end of the Republic, stood nearthe arches of the Aqua Virgo, and consequentlynear tin- Septa. (Serv. ad A en. xii. 139; Ov.FaiLi. 403; Cic. pro fluent. 36.) Such was the Campus Martins down to the im­perial times; when the great works undertakenthere by Julius Caesar and Augustus gave it quitea new appearance. But, before we proceed to de­scribe these, we must say a few words respecting theNavalia, or government dockyards. The oldertopographers placed them under the Aventine, fromconfounding them with the Emporium or commercialdocks. Piale first pointed out the incorrectness ofthis view; but cried himself in placing the Navaliaon the opposite bank of the Tiber, from his ignoranceof certain passages which determine them to havebeen in the Campus Martins. These passages,which were first adduced by Becker (de Muris. rtc.p. 96, Handb. p. 159), are the. following: "Speaunica imperii popnli Hmnani, L. Quinctius, transTilierim contra eum ipsum locum, ubi nunc Navaliasunt, quatuor jugerum colebat agrum, quae prutaQuinctia vocantur." (Liv. iii. 26.) This pusNigeshows the Navalia to have been on the left bank ofthe Tiber, oppttsite some fields called pnrta (Juinctia;and the following one from Pliny fixes the situation 3 il 2