OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. -&8 "once inhabited, and be entirely encompassed with walls, thoa"wilt be excluded from thy passage to Celesyriaand Phenicia."2. When Cambyses had read the epistle, being naturallywicked, he was irritated at what they told him; and wrote backto them as follows: "Cambyses the king, to Rathumus thea historiographer, to Beeltethmus, to Semellius the scribe,"and the rest that are in commission, and dwelling in Samaria"and Phenicia, after this manner; I have read the epistle that"was sent from you; and I gave order that the books of my"forefathers should be searched into, and it is there found,"that this city hath always been an enemy to Icings, and its in*"habitants have raised seditions and wars. We also are sensi-"ble that their kings have been powerful, and tyrannical, and"have exacted tribute of Celesyria and PheHicia: Wherefore I"give order that the Jews shall not be permitted to build that"city, lest such mischief as they used to bring upon kings be"greatly augmented." When this epistle was read, Rathumus,and Semellius the scribe, and the;r-associates, got suddenly onhorseback, and made haste to Jerusalem; they also brought agreat company -with them,'and forbade the Jews to build thecity, and the temple. Accordingly, these works were 'hinderedfrom going on till the second year of the reign of Darius, fornine years more; for Cambyses reigned six years, and withinthat time overthrew Egypt, and when he was come back, hedied at Damascus. CHAP. III. How, offer the death of Cambyses, and the slaughter of the Magi,but under the reign of Darius, Zorobabel was superior to therest in the solution of problems, and thereby obtained this fa­vour of the king, that the temple should be built. $ 1. AFTER the slaughter of the Magi, -who, upon thedeath of Cambyses, attained the government of the Persian'sfor a year, those families which were called the seven familiesof the Persians, appointed Darius, the son of Hystaspes, to betheir king. Now he, while he was a private man, had made avow to God, that if he came to .be king, he would send allthe vessels of God that were in Babylon to the temple at Jeru­salem. Now it so fell out, that about this time Zorobabel, whohad been made governor cf the Jews that iiad- been in captivity,came to Darius, from Jerusalem: for there had been an oldfriendship between him and the king. 'He was also, with twoothers, thought worthy to be guards of the king's body; and ob­tained that honour which he hoped for.. 2. -Now in the first year of the king's reign, Darius feasted