OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. u l>lows, the generals with death; and it was an inflexible maxim ofRoman discipline, that a good soldier should dread his officers farmore than the enemy. From such laudable arts did the valour ofthe Imperial troops receive a degree of firmness and docility, unattain­able by the impetuous and irregular passions of barbarians. And yet so sensible were the Romans of the imperfection of va- Exercises,lour without skill and practice, that, in their language, the nameof an army was borrowed from the word which signified exercise ,fi.Military exercises were the important and unremitted object of theirdiscipline. The recruits and young soldiers were constantly trainedboth in the morning and in the evening, nor was age or knowledgeallowed to excuse the veterans from the daily repetition of whatthey had completely learnt. Large sheds were erected in the win­ter-quarters of the troops, that their useful labours might notreceive any interruption from the most tempestuous weather; and itwas carefully observed, that the arms destined to this imitation ofwar, should be of double the weight which was required in realaction '7. It is not the purpose of this work to enter into any mi­nute description of the Roman exercises. We shall only remark,that they comprehended whatever could add strength to the body,activity to the limbs, or grace to the motions. The soldiers were•diligently instructed to march, to run, to leap, to swim, to carryheavy burdens, to handle every species of arms that was usedeither for offence or for defence, either in distant engagement orin a closer onset; to form a variety of evolutions; and to move tothe found of flutes, in the pyrrhic or martial dance ,s. In themidst of peace, the Roman troops familiarised themselves with thepractice of war; and it is prettily remarked by an ancient historianwho had fought against them, that the effusion of blood was theonly circumstance which distinguished a field of battle from a fieldof exercise ". It was the policy of the ablest generals, and even ofthe emperors themselves, to encourage these military studies by their C 2 presence