OCR Output 184 ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, , Book XX. were wont to be supported with those tithes, died for want offood. 3. But now the Sicarii went into the city by night, just be.fore the festival, which was now at hand, and took the scribebelonging to the governor of the temple, whose name was Elea-'s&art who was the son of Ananus [Ananias] the high-priest, andbound him,' and carried him away with them ; after which th^rsent to Ananias, and said that they would send the scribe to him,if he would persuade Albinus to release ten of those prisonerswhich he had caught of their party; so Ananias was plainlyforced to persuade Albinus, and gained his request of him. Thiswas the beginning of greater calamities ; for the robbers perpe­tually contrived to catch some of Ananias's servants, and whenthey had taken them alive, they would not let them go, till theythereby recovered some of their own Sicarii. And as they wereagain become no small in number, they grew bold, and were agreat affliction to the whole country. 4. About this time it was that king Agrippa built CesareaPhilippi larger tha.i it was before, and, in honour of Nero, namedit Neronias. And when he had built a theatre at Berytus, withvast expences, he bestowed on them shows, to be exhibited everyyear, and spent therein many ten thousand [drachmae] ; he alsogave the people a largess of corn, and distributed oil among them,and adorned the entire city with statues of his own donation, andwith original images made by ancient hands; nay, he almost trans­ferred all that was most ornamental in his own kingdom thither.This made htm more than ordinarily hated by his subjects ; be­cause he took those things away that belonged to them, to adorna foreign city. And now Jesus, the son of Gamaliel, becamethe successor of Jesus, the son of Damneus, in the high-priesthood,which the king had taken from the other ; on which account asedition arose between [the high-pr-iests, with regard to one an­other ; for they got together bodies of the boldest sort of thepeople, and frequently came, from reproaches, to throwing ofstones at each other. But Ananias was too hard for the rest, byhis riches, which enabled him to gain those that were most readyto receive. Costobarus also, and Saulus, did themselves get to­gether a multitude of wicked wretches, and this because theywere of the royal family ; and so they obtained favour amongthem, because of their kindred to Agrippa ; but still they used:violence with people, and were very ready to plunder those thatwere weaker than themselve's. And from that it principallycame to pass, that our city was greatly disordered, and that allthings grew worse and worse among us. . . 5. But when Albinus heard that Gcssins Floras was coming to