OCR Output ' 5F THJ6 ROMAN EMPtRE. ;«99 monarch of his race illustrious in the west, as the ally of Charlemagne, and fami­liar to the most childish readers, as the perpetual hero of the Arabian Tales.His title to the name of Al Rashid (the Just) is sullied by the extirpation of thegenerous, perhaps the innocent, Barmecides; yet he could listen to the complaintof a poor widow who had been pillaged by his troops, and who dared, in a passageof the Koran, to threaten the inattentive despot with the judgment of God andposterity. His court was adorned with luxury and science; but in a reign of three-and-twenty years, Harun repeatedly visited his provinces from Chorasan to Egypt;nine times he performed the pilgrimage of Mecca; eight times he inTaded the ter­ritories of the Romans; and as often as they declined the payment of the tribute,they were taught to feel that a month of depredation was more costly than a yearof submission. But when the unnatural mother of Constantine was deposed andbanished, her successor Nicephorus resolved to obliterate this badge of servitudeand disgrace. The epistle of the emperor to the caliph was pointed with an allu­sion to the game of chess, which had already Bpread from Persia to Greece. " Thequeen," he spoke of Irene, " considered you as a rook and herself a pawn. Thatpusillanimous female submitted to pay a tribute, the double of which she ought tonave evicted from the barbarians. Restore therefore the fruits of your injustice,or abide the determination of the sword." At these words the ambassadors casta bundle of swords before the foot of the throne. The caliph smiled at the menace,and drawing his scimitar, samaamcih, a weapon of historic or fabulous renown, hecut asunder the feeble arms of the Greeks, without turning the edge, or endanger­ing the temper of his blade. He then dictated an epistle of tremendous brevity;"In the name of the most merciful God, Harun al Rashid, commander of the faith­ful, to Nicephorus, the Roman dog. I have read thy letter, O thou son of an unbe­lieving mother. Thou shalt no^hear, thoushalt behold my reply." It was writ­ten in characters of blood and fire on the plains of Phrygia, and the warlike cele­rity of the Arabs could only be checked by the arts of deceit and the show of re­pentance. The triumphant caliph retired, after the fatigues of the campaign, tohis favourite palace of Racca on the Euphrates:(l) but the distance of five hun­dred miles, and the inclemency of the season, encouraged his adversary to violatethe peace. Nicephorus was astonished by the bold and rapid march of the com­mander of the faithful, who repassed, in the depth of winter, the snows of mountTaurus: his stratagems of policy and war were exhausted; and the perfidiousGreek escaped with three wounds from a field of battle overspread with fortythousand of his subjects. Yet the emperor was ashamed of submission, and thecaliph was resolved on victory. One hundred and thirty-five thousand regularsoldiers received pay, and were inscribed in the military roll; and above three hun­dred thousand persons of every denomination marched under the black standardof the Abbassides. They swept the surface of Asia Minor far beyond Tyana andAncyra, and invested the Pontic Heraclea, (2) once a flourishing state, now a pal­try town; at that time capable of sustaining in her antique walls a month's siegeagainst the forces of the east. The ruin was complete, the spoil was ample; butif Harun had been conversant with Grecian story, he would have regretted thestatue of Herculus, whose attributes, the club, the bow, the quiver, and the lion'shide, were sculptured in massy gold. The progress of desolation by sea and land,from the Euxine to the isle of Cyprus, compelled the emperor Nicephorus to re­tract his haughty defiance. In the new treaty the ruins of Heraclea were leftfov ever as a lesson and a trophy; and the coin of the tribute was marked with theimage and superscription of Harun and his three sons. (3) Yet this plurality oflords might contribute to remove the dishonour of the Roman name. After thedeath of their father, the heirs of the ealiph were involved in civil discord and theconqueror, the liberal Almamon, was sufficiently engaged in the restoration of do­mestic peace and the introduction of foreign science. Under the reign of Almamon at Bagdad, of Michael the Stammerer at Constan­cy For theiitttauon of Racca, the old Nicephorium, consult d'Anvilte (L'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 24—27.)The Arabian Nights represent Harun al Rashid as almost stationary in Bagdad. He respected the royal scatof the Abbassides, but the vices of the inhabitants had driven htm from the city (Abulfed. Annat. p. 167.) (2) M. r>. Toumefolt, in his coasting voyage from Constantinople to Tri-bizond, passed a night at Heracleaor Eregri. His eye surveyed the present st;tte, his reading collected the antiquities, of the city (Voyage du Le­vant, torn. iii. lettre 16, p. 23—35.) We have a separate history of Heraclea in the fragments of Memnon, whichlire preserved by Pholtus. (3) The wars of Harun al Rashid against the Roman empire, are related by Theophanes (394,385. 391.39(>,407,408.,) Zoimras (torn. ii. lib. IS, p. 115.124.,) Ccdrenus (p. 477,478.,) Eutythifis (Antral, torn. ii. p. 407.,)Jilmaciii (Hist. Smacen, p. 13«, 151,152.) ApnlptBragins,(Oynast.j>> 117. Ml.) and Atiultfila, (p. 1S6. la.S-.15S~) Vot. nr. . .53