OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 9 bank of the Tagus and promised to transfer them to bettersettlements; whereupon the barbarians, who to the numberof 7000 came to him for the sake of the expected lands, wereseparated into three divisions, disarmed, and partly carriedoff into slavery, partly massacred. War has hardly everbeen waged with so much perfidy, cruelty, and avarice asby these two generals; yet by means of their criminallyacquired treasures the one escaped condemnation, and theother escaped even impeachment. The veteran Cato in hiseighty-fifth year, a few months before his death, attemptedto bring Galba to account before the burgesses; but theweeping children of the general, and the gold which he hadbrought home with him, demonstrated to the Roman peoplehis innocence. It was not so much the inglorious successes which Lucul- Viriathus.lus and Galba had attained in Spain, as the outhreak of thefourth Macedonian and of the third Carthaginian war in605, which induced the Romans again to leave Spanish 149affairs for a time in the hands of the ordinary governors.Whereupon the Lusitanians, exasperated rather than hum­bled by Galba's perfidy, immediately overran afresh the richterritory of Turdetania. The Roman governor Gaius Veti-lius (605 ?*) marched against them, and not only defeated 149.them, but drove the whole host towards a hill where itseemed lost irretrievably. The capitulation was virtually con­cluded, when Viriathus—a man of humble origin, who for­merly, when a youth, had bravely defended bis-flock from wildbeasts and robbers and was now in more serious conflicts adreaded guerilla chief, and who was one of the few Spaniardsthat had accidentally escaped from the perfidious onslaughtof Galba—warned his countrymen against relying on theRoman word of honour, and promised them deliverance ifthey would follow him. His language and his example * The chronology of the war with Viriathus is far from being preciselysettled. It is certain that the appearance of Viriathus dates from the conflictwith Vetilius (Appian, Hisp. 61 ; Justin, xliv. 2), and that he perished in 615; 139.the duration of his government is reckoned at eight (Appian, Hisp. 63), ten(Justin, xliv. 2), eleven (Diodorus, p. 597), or fourteen years (Liv. liv.;Eutrop. iv. 16; Fior. i. 33). The third estimate possesses some probability,because the conflict with Vetilius is closely associated with the governorshipof Galba. On the other hand, the series of Roman governors is quite uncer­tain for the following period down to 608; and the more so because Viriathus, 146.while operating chiefly in the southern, fought also in the northern province(Liv. lii.), and thus his Roman antagonists did not belong solely to one set ofgovernors.