OCR Output AN. 1116.} 189 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. kissed him, and said, " Be thou a king, by theordination of God, against the Philistines,and for avenging the Hebrews for what theyhave suffered by them. Of this thou shalthave a sign which I would have thee notice:As soon as thou art departed hence, thou wiltfind three men upon the road, going to wor­ship God at Bethel: the first thou wilt seecarrying three loaves of bread; the secondcarrying a kid of the goats; and the third willfollow them, carrying a bottle of wine. Thesemen will salute thee, and speak kindly tothee, and will give thee two of their loaves,which thou shalt accept; and thence thoushalt come to a place called Rachel's Monu­ment, where thou shalt meet with those thatwill tell thee thy asses are found; after this,when thou comest to Gabatha, thou shaltovertake a company of prophets, and thoushalt be seized with the Divine Spirit,* andprophesy along with them, till every one thatsees thee shall be astonished, and wonder,and say, Whence is it that the son of Kishhas arrived at this degree of happiness? Andwhen these signs have happened to thee,know that God is with thee, then do thou sa­lute thy father, and thy kindred. Thou shaltalso come when I send for thee to Gilgal, thatwe may offer thank-offerings to God for theseblessings." When Samuel had said this, hesent the young man away; and all things fellout to Saul according to the prophecy ofSamuel. But as soon as Saul came into the house ofhis kinsman Abner, he was asked by him con­cerning his journey, and what accidents hadhappened to him therein; and he concealednone of the other things from him, no, not hiscoming to Samuel the prophet, nor how hetold him the asses were found; but he saidnothing about the kingdom, andf what be­longed thereto; which ne thought would pro­cure him envy, and when such things areheard they are not easily believed. Nor didhe think it prudent to tell those things to him,although he appeared very friendly, and onewhom he loved above the rest of his relations,considering, I suppose, what human naturereally is; that no one is a firm friend, neither among our intimates, nor of our kindred; nordo they preserve that kind disposition whenGod advances nfen to great prosperity, butthey are still ill-natured and envious at thosethat are in eminent stations. Then Samuel called the people together tothe city Mispeh; and spake to them by thecommand of God in the words following:—"When God had granted you a state of liberty,and brought your enemies into subjection, youbecame unmindful of his benefits, and re­jected him, that he should not be your king;not considering that it would be most foryour advantage to be presided over by thebest of Beings; for God is the best of beings;but you choose to have a man for your king;though kings will use their subjects as beasts,according to the violence of their own willsand inclinations, as wholly carried away withthe lust of power; but will not endeavour soto preserve the race of mankind, as their ownworkmanship and creation; which, for thatvery reason, God would take care of. Since,however, you have come to a fixed resolution,and this injurious treatment of God has quiteprevailed over you, dispose yourselves byyour tribes, and cast lots." When the Hebrews had so done, the lotfell upon the tribe of Benjamin, and when thelot was cast for the families of this tribe, thatwhich was called Matri was taken; and whenthe lot was cast for the single persons of thatfamily; Saul the son of Kish was taken fortheir king. When the young man knew this,he prevented their sending for him, and im­mediately went away and hid himself. I sup­pose it was because he would not have itthought that he willingly took the govern­ment upon him. Nay* he shewed such a degree of command over himself, and of mo­desty, that while the greatest part are notable to contain their joy, even in the gainingof small advantages, but presently shewthemselves publicly to all men; this man didnot only evince nothing of that nature, whenhe was appointed to be lord over so manyand so great tribes, but crept away, and con­cealed himself from those he was to reignover, and made them seek him with a good from him, it is more reasonable to think, though someJewish doctors will have it otherwise, that what he madeun* of, upon this occasion, was no more than common oil.Patrick's Comment. B. * An instance of this divine fury we have after this inSaul, 1 Sam. xi. 6. See the like Judg. iii. 10. vi. 34. xi. 29. xiii. 25. xiv. 6.t 1 Sam. x. 16. Rr2