OCR Output C. V.] T H E I D U M E A N S. 113 naked, and seemed to be the food of dogs and wild beasts.And I cannot but imagine that virtue itself groaned at thesemen's case, and lamented that she was here so terribly con­quered by wickedness. And this at last was the end ofAnanus and Jesus. 3. Now after these were slain, the zealots and the multi­tude of the Idumeans fell upon the people as upon a flock ofprofane animals, and cut their throats; and for the ordinarysort, they were destroyed in what place soever they caughtthem. But for the noblemen and the youth, they first caughtthem and bound them, and shut them up in prison, and putoft" their slaughter, in hopes that some of them would turnover to their party ; but not one of them would comply withtheir desires, but all of them preferred death before beingenrolled among such wicked wretches as acted against their,own country. But this refusal of theirs brought upon themterrible torments; for they were so scourged and torturedthat their bodies were not able to sustain their torments, tillat length, and with difficulty, they had the favor to be slain.Those whom they caught in the day-time were slain in thenight, and then their bodies were carried out, and thrownaway, that there might be room for other prisoners; and theterror that was upon tho people was so great, that no onehad courage enough either openly to weep for the dead manthat was related to him, or to bury him; but those that wereshut up in their own houses could only shed tears in secret,and durst not even groan, without great caution, lest any oftheir enemies should hear them : for if they did, those thatmourned for others soon underwent the same death with thosewhom they mourned for. Only, in the night-time, they wouldtake up a little dust, and throw it upon their bodies; andeven some that were the most ready to expose themselves todanger would do it in the day-time; and there were twelvethousand of the better sort who perished in this manner. 4. And now these zealots and Idumeans were quite wearyof barely killing men; so they had the impudence of settingup fictitious tribunals and judicatures for that purpose; and 10 *