OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. cyra, put to death all the prisoners they had taken, exceptthe Corinthians, whom they kept in chains. And after this,as the Corinthians and allies having been vanquished in fightwere forced to retire within their own harbours, they werequite masters of all the adjacent sea; and, sailing first toLeucas a colony of the Corinthians, they laid its territorywaste; and then burnt Cyllene a dock of the Eleans, be­cause they had supplied the Corinthians with ships and mo­ney. In this manner they continued masters of the sea along time after their naval victory, and in their cruises verymuch annoyed the allies of the Corinthians. It was nottill the beginning of the summer, that a check was giventhem by a fleet and land army, who were commissioned, inorder to relieve their harrassed allies, to station themselvesat Actium and round the Chimerium of Thesprotis. Therethey lay, to cover Leucas and other places which were infriendship with them from the ravage of the enemy. TheCorcyreans, upon this, with a naval and land-force sta­tioned themselves over-against them at Leucimna. But,neither party venturing out to attack the other, they layquiet in their opposite stations the whole summer; and onthe approach of winter, both sides withdrew to their respec­tive homes. During the remainder of the year, after the engagementat sea, and all the following, the Corinthians, whose indig­nation was raised in this their war against the Corcyreans,were building new ships, and sparing neither labour nor costto get a strong armament ready for sea, and sent through­out Peloponnesus and the other parts of Greece to hire ma­riners into their service. The Corcyreans, hearing of thesegreat preparations, were terribly alarmed, and with reason:For at that time they were in no alliance with any of theGrecians, nor comprehended either in the Athenian or La­cedaemonian league. And hence they thought it quite ex­pedient to go and sue for the alliance of the Athenians, and-endeavour to obtain some succour from them. The Corin­thians gaining intelligence of their design, dispatched ah