OCR Output 328 - WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. and of all that Pheroras had accused her of, she obtained her par足don. The king also pardoned Pheroras himself the crimes hehad been accused of. 7. But the storm of the whole family was removed to Alexan足der, and all of ic rested upon his head. There were three eunuchswho were in the highest esteem with the king, as was plain bythe offices they were in about him; for one of them was ap足pointed to be his butler, another of them got his supper readyfor him, and the third put him into bed, and lay down by him.Now Alexander had prevailed with these men, by large gifts,to let him use them after an obscene manner: which, when itwas told to the king, they were tortured, and found guilty, andpresently confessed the criminal conversation he had with them.They also discovered the promises by which they were inducedso to do, and how they were deluded by Alexander, who hadtold them, That " they ought not to fix their hopes upon He-" rod, an old man, and one so shameless as to colour his hair,** unless they thought that would make him young again; but" that they ought to fix their attention to him, who was to be his** successor in the kingdom whether he would or not; and who" in no long time would avenge himself on his enemies, and" make his friends happy and blessed, and themselves in the first" place: that the men of power did already pay respects to" Alexander privately, and that the captains of the soldiery, and" the officers, did secretly come to him." ' * 8. These confessions did so terrify Herod, that he durst notimmediately publish them; but he sent spies abroad privatelyby night and by day, who should make a close inquiry after ail-that was done and said; and when any were but suspected [oftreason] he put them to death, insomuch that the palace was fullof horriblyunjust proceedings; for everybody forged calumnies,as they were themselves in a state of enmity or hatred againstothers; and many there were who abused the king's bloodypassion to the disadvantage of those with whom they had quar-*rels, and lies were easily believed, and punishments were inflic足ted sooner than the calumnies were forged: he who had justthen been accusing another, was accused himself, and was ledaway to execution together with him whom he had convicted;for the danger the king was in of his life made examinationsbe very short. He also proceeded to such a degree of bitterness,that he could not look on any of those that were not accused'with a pleasant countenance, but was in the most barbarousdisposition towards his own friends. Accordingly, he forbade agreat many of them to come to court, and to those whom he hadnot power to punish actually, he spake harshly; but for Anti-- pater.