OCR Output PAGASAEUS SINUS. PALAEPOLIS. 515 ktiitmiSMtmd Demctrias in 11. c. 290, Pagasaens m if the towns, whose inhabitants were trans-wnd 1o the nrw citf; but after the Roman conquest?Uia* m mknd. and again became an importantut Ii th« time of Strabo it was the port ofhat. thick *u the principal city in this part ofTVsa>. Piguse was 90 stadia from Phcrae, anda (xn lata. (Smb. I. c.) The ruins of theoca* cCr ire to be seen near Volo, which has,™ the modem nine to the bay. The acropoliswenis) the summit of some rocky heights abovefov Atsrufri, and at the foot of the rocks arek; apnat toarces of water, of which Strabonati Bet is thaw springs are rather saline toBe u-r, the citj was provided in the Roman timesv~ <Vjtr from s distance by means of an aqueduct,t> .ind pets of which are still a conspicuous■Vet (Leake, AortAem Greece, vol. iv. p. 368,■>> fiCASAECS SINUS. [Paoasab.]FAGRAE (noypoi), a town of Syria, placed byh»<»j u the district of Pieria, near the Syrian('. 15. § 12), bat more particularly de-hr Stnba, as adjoining Gindarus, the acro-.fCyrnWice. Pagru he places in the districttarto, and describes as a strung place nearof the Amanus, on the Syrian aide of theaba Axaxidu Pylae [Vol I. p. 113], thefiles of Ptolemy (i. c). The plain ofStrabo, lies under Pagrae, throughthe Arrrathus, the Orontes, and thefa this plain is also the dyke of Melea-tbe river Oenoparas. Above it is the ridge» called from its resemblance to ai which Ventidius engaged Phranicatcs, ge­lt < tbt Parthiana, (xvi. p. 751.) The placein medieval and modern geo-'vy the aid of Abulfeda and Pococke."p*, writes the former, has a lofty citadel, withv. and gardens; it is said to be; littiej from Antioch, and as many fromIt is situated on a mountain over-ti» valley of Ckarem, which Chartm is m »>, (ti£es to (Im east. Jiaghras isBka a stage from Darbasak, to the south.pVw»!,p.l20.) Pococke is still more par-la ha description. He passed within sight■cwkb Antioch and Baiaa. After passingbe uraed to the west between the hills,aio. about 2 miles to the north, therf Pogras on the bills; this was the» of it in the Itinerary [Antooini], in■ i> paced 16 miles from Alexandria andAiSjoch; which hitter is a mistake, for thea Juoroty (calling it Paiigrios) puts it14 Kuies from Antioch. As I havewared, a river called Soada rises in the•» t« the west, runs under this place,... andAt kit of Antioch,"— also called from it I otherwise Bohr A (joule, "the Whitethe colour of its waters. This Soudathe river Arceuthas mentioned by■waiately after Pagrae, as running throughI wf A ■ . ,;' (Observation* on Syria,11*1) It is numbered 17 on the map of•"Una. rVeit p. 114 ] [G. W.] (Qwrn). a hill of Ionia, a little to the■affraa, with a chapel of Nemesis and ao«i«waar. (Pan*, v. 12. § 1.) Modern1 «Wrae the hill as between 500 and GOOIpnad as presenting the form of a cone from which the point is cut off. (Hamilton, Researches,i. p. 53, foil.) [L. S.] PAGYRI'TAE (noryop'Teu, Ptol. iii. 5. § 22), apeople of European Sarmatia, whose position cannotbe made out Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 211)connects the termination of their name with the word"gura," which the Poles and other Rosso-Slavonianstocks use for " gora," " mountain." [E. B. J.] PALA'CIUM (TlaAaKiov). a fortress in the TaurioChersonese, built by Scilurus, king of the Tauro-Scythians, to resist the attacks of Milhridates andhis generals. (Strab. vii. p. 312.) The name,which it seems to have taken from his son Palacus(Strab. pp. 306, 309), still survives in the modernBalukldva, which Dr. Clark (Travel), vol. ii. p. 219)inaccurately supposes to be derived from the Genoese"Bella Clava," "The Fair Harbour." Its harbourwas the Symbolon Portis (Xv/ig6\uy a<ui>,Strab. vii. pp. 308, 309; Arrian, I'cripl. p. 20; Ptol.iii. 6. § 2; Plin. iv. 26), or the Cembaro or Cem­balo of the middle ages, the narrow entrance towhich has been described by Strabo (/. c.) with suchfidelity to nature. According to him, the harbour,together with that of Ctenus (Sebastopol), consti­tuted by their approach an isthmus of 40 stadia;this with a wall fenced the Lesser Peninsula, havingwithin it the city of Chersonesns The SiNrsPoKTUOSUS of Pomponius Meht(ii. 1. § 3), from theposition he assigns to it between Criumetopon andthe nest point to the \V\, can only agree with Bala-kldva, which is truly " koAos AiuV et promontoriisduobns induditur." Dubois de Montpereux ( 1 'oynycautour du Caucase, vol. vi. pp. 115, 220), in ac­cordance with his theory of transferring the wander­ings of Odysseus to the waters of the Euxine,discovers in Balaklava the harbour of the giantLaestrygones (Odyts. x. 80—99); and this opinionlias been taken up by more than one writer. It isalmost needless to say that the poet's graphic pic­ture of details freshly drawn from the visible world,is as true of other land-locked basins, edged in bycliffs, as when applied to the greyish-blue, or lightred Jura rocks, which hem in the entrance to thestraits of Balaildca, [E. B. J.] PALAE, a town of Thrace, according to Lapsenear Moussaldja. (Itm. Ant. p. 568.) [T. H.D.J PALAEA. 1. (riaAoia), a place in the Troadon the coast, 130 stadia from Andeira. (Strab. xiii.p. 614.) 2. (riaAaia fcc6uT]), in Laconia, [Plkiak.]PALAEBYBLOS (noAolgi/SAor, Strab. xv. p.755; naAauSSugAot, Ptol. v. 15. §21), a town ofPhoenicia, which Strabo places alter the Climaxor promontory called Has- Watta-Salan, forming thuN. extremity of the Bay of Kesruan. The site,which is unknown, was therefore probably betweenthe Climax, in the steep cliffs of which it was neces­sary to cut steps—whence the name—and the riverLycus, among the hills which closely border theshore, and rise to the height of 1000 feet Ptolemy(L c.) calls it a city of the interior, and the Peu-tinger Table places it 7 M. P. from Berytus, butdoes not give its distance from Bybloe. (Kenrick,Phoenicia, p. 12, London, 1855.) [E. B.J]PALAEMYNDUS. [Mykdus.]PAI.AEOBYBLUS. [T'alaebyblus.]PALAEPHARUS, or PALAEPHAItSALUS,that is either old Pharac or Pberae or old Pharsalus,according to the difference of the readings in thetext of Livy (xxxii. 13). PALAEPOLIS. [NaUroua.] I. 1. L'