OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 215 than a rampart. From these they repelled the enemywith stones. Scipio considering that unless the busi­ness were effected during their first panic, and beforethey could recover their spirits, the attack of so stronga town would be very tedious, asked his soldiers ' ifthey could endure, without shame, that the other wingshould already have taken the camp, and that they,after all their success, should be repulsed from thegates of the city V Then, all of them loudly declaringtheir determination to the contrary, he himself ad­vanced the foremost to the gate, with his shield raisedover his head : the rest, following under the like coverof their shields conjoined, burst into the city, and dis­persing the Samnites, who were near the gate, tookpossession of the walls, but were deterred from push­ing forward by the smallness of their number. 42. Of these transactions the consul was for sometime ignorant, and was busily employed in callinghome his troops, for the sun was now hastening to set,and the approach of night rendered every place suspi­cious and dangerous, even to victorious troops. Hav­ing rode forward a considerable way, he saw on theright the camp taken, and heard on the left a shoutingin the city, with a confused noise of fighting and criesof terror. This happened while the fight was going onat the gate. When, on riding up nearer, he saw hisown men on the walls, and so much progress alreadymade in the business, pleased at having gained throughthe precipitate conduct of a few an opportunity ofstriking an important blow, he ordered the troopswhom he had sent back to the camp to be called out,and to march to the attack of the city: these, havingmade good their entrance on the nearest side, pro­ceeded no farther, because night approached. Beforemorning, however, the town was abandoned by theenemy. There were slain of the Samnites on that day,at Aquilonia, thirty thousand three hundred and forty;taken, three thousand eight hundred and seventy, withninety-seven military standards. One circumstancerespecting Papirius is particularly mentioned by his­