OCR Output 582 PETRA. PETAVONIUM. PETAVO'NICM (Jltrawviav, Ptol. ii. G. § 35),a town of the Supcr:itii in HispanU Tarracooensis,SE. of Asturica. {/tin. Ant. p. 423.) [T.H.D.] PETEXIA or PETI'LIA (rieTTjAfa: Eth. T\*tt).Xivos, Pctelinus: Strongoli), an ancient city ofBrnttium, situated about 1*2 miles N. of Crotona,and 3 miles from the E. coast of the peninsula.According to the Greek traditions it was a veryancient city, founded by Philoctetes after the TrojanWar. (Strab. vi. p. 254; Virg. Aen. iii. 401; Serv.ml h>c.) This legend probably indicates that it wasreally a town of the Chones, an Oenotrian tribe; aathe foundation ofChone. in the same neighbourhood,was also ascribed to Philoctetes. It was only asmall place (Virg. I- c), hut in a strong situation.We have DO account of its receiving a Greek colony,nor is its name ever mentioned among the Greekcities of this part of Italy; but, like so many of theOenotrian towns, became to a great extent Hel-lenised or imbued with Greek culture and manners.It was undoubtedly for a long time subject toCrotona, and comprised within the territory of thatcity; and probably fur this reason, its name is nevermentioned during the early history of MagnaGraecia. But after the irruption of the Lucanians,it fell into the hands of that people, by whom it wasstrongly fortified, and became one of their mostimportant strongholds. (Strab. I. c.) It is ap­parently on this account, that Strabo calls it " themetropolis of the Lucani.ms," though it certainlywas not included in Lncania as the term wasunderstood in his day. Petelia first became con­spicuous in history during the Second Punic War,when its citizens remained faithful to the Romanalliance, notwithstanding the general defection of theBiutti.ins around them, B. C 216. They were inconsequence besieged by the Brut thins as well as bya Carthaginian force under Himilco: but thoughabandoned to their fate by the Roman senate, towhom they had in vain sued for assistance, theymade ■ desperate resistance; and it was not till aftera siege of several months, in which they had suf­fered the utmost extremities of famine, that theywere at length compelled to surrender. (Lie, xxiii.2*1. 30; Polyb, vii. lj Appian, Annib. 29; Krontin.Strat. iv. 5. § 18 ; Val Max. vi. 6, ext. § 2; SiJ.It.il. xii. 431.) The few inhabitants who escaped,were after the close of the war restored by theRomans to their native town (Appian, /. c), andwere doubtless treated with especial favour; so thatPetelia rose again to a prosperous condition, and inthe days of Strabo was one of the few cities ofBruttram that was still tolerably flourishing andpopnlous, (Strab. vi. p. 254.) We learn frominscriptions that it still continued to he a flourishingmunicipal town under the Roman Empire (OrelI.Inscr. 137, 3G78, 3939 ; Moinmsen, Inscr. R. A*,pp. .*>, 6): it is mentioned by alt the geogra­phers and its name is still found in the Tabula,which places it on the road from Thurii to Crotona.(Mel. ii. 4. § 8; Plin. iii. 10. s. 15; Ptol. iii. 1.§ 75; Tab. Pent.) But we are unable to trace itshistory further: its identification with StrongoH is,however, satisfactorily made out by the inscriptionswhich have been found in the latter city. Strongoliis an episcopal see, with about 7000 inhabitants: itssituation on u lofty and rugged hill, commanding theplain of the Nieto (Xeaethus), corresponds withthe accounts of Petelia, which is represented asoccupying a position of great natural strength.Then-are no ruins of the ancient city, hut numerous minor objects of antiquity have been iossd flS AsSpot, besides the inscriptions above referred tu, The existence of a second town of the sneetPetelia in Lucania, which has been admttsi Viseveral writers, rests mainly oo the nunc* rfStrabo where he calls Petelia the rortrifis siLucania; but he is certainly there speakmr. •**' ttswell-known city of the name, which was nod*nS>«Wfin Brnttium. The inscriptions published by AnSana,to prove that there was a town of thin oaroe lb tilmountains near Yelia, are in all probability •pentas(Mommsen, /. R. X. App. p. 2), tboorh thryassibeen adopted, and his authority followed bynelli and Cramer. (Romanelli, vol. i. p Ml:Cramer's Italy, vol. ii. pw 367.) The Pktelim Moxtks(to. nr-n^Xlm Wt\tinned by Plutarch (Croat. 11), to which Sfartssiretired after his defeat by Crassus, are evidently •rugged group of the Apennines S. of the C vasbetween Petelia and Consentia. [E. H. bV) PE'TEON (n#Vw: £tk nerPriori a Mlof Boeotia, mentioned by Homer (/£, ii. 500\e|situated near the road from Thebes to Affi&sil(Strab. ix. p. 410.) Strain) oontradicta hinMafjthe course of the same page (I.e.), in one asasdplacing Peteon in the Tbebais, and is souther Ithe Haliart'ia. (Comp. Plut. Sarr. .In. 4;iv. 7. s. 12; Steph. B. s. r.) The posit.or. of 1is uncertain. Leake supjoses it niay be lby some ancient remains at the southern extrasjof the lake Paralimni. (A'wrtAerw Gmae, veilp. 320.) PETINESCA, in the country of the Heirs!!placed in the Itins. between Aventicnm (.tt**atijand Salodurum (Solothum); at the distance «f 1in the Anton. It in. from Aventicum ana xinx sa|Tabic; and at the distance of x. from Sakdaboth the Itineraries. Some geographers bate JPetinesca at a place named /.■-*; but tieddoes not agree with tliat given by the Itins. IPetinesca and Salodurum, as D'Anville <also says that the position of Biame {Bid) tsponds to the ancient numbers, if we take tindicate Gallic leagues. Cluver also riaesd 1ni*sca at BUI. [G. i PKTITAKUS- [AoDLoem] PETOV10 (noro€u»y, or Tla-T^aw. Ptoi i§ 4: Pcttan), also called Poetovio (/ti262; and in inscriptions ap. Orelli, n.tavio, and Petaviona, was an importantUpper Pannonia, on the river Drarua and tlsrltiers of Noricum. In inscriptions it is caDsi^Jman colony, and bears the surname of L'lfaa;it may be inferred that it received Romans <from either Trajan or Hadrian, whoextended the place. Its importance is Iattested by the fact that it was the iLegio xiii. Gemina, and that an imperial;existed outside its walls. (Tac. UtaL iii. \\ jMarc. SIT 37 ; //. Hiero*. p. 561iv. 19.) The modern town of Ptttam is CSflthe left bank of the Drove; and as 1tions, and other ancient remains are found <the opposite side, it is probable that the itorio was situated on the richt bank o:<^cussSjnwdorn Peitau. (Com p. K. Mayer, t'erensanw$try?rnidrhuchc Altcrthumer, Gritu, 1783, 4Mm har. Xoricum. i. p. 364.) [L^ PETRA (flerpa), ** rock," the nametowns. 1. In Kumpr. 1. PctuaUmbria. [Intkkcisa.] me M ssl