OCR Output BOMA. BOMA. 825 ttaawate ban been the ipot called by Martialttfimmfimoa of tbe Subura (ii. 17):— 'Tisatrix Saburae faucibus sedet primis,frofota pendent qua fiagella tortnrumArriqae letum multua obsidet sutor." Jmtal (v. 106) represents tbe Cloaca Maximas -it.-.- to tlie middle of the Sobura, and*» (act was established by excavations nude in"■: war K43. (Kicoroni, VeiHgia di Roma, ap.leaker;. Clan. V . vol. t. p. 219.) Inn iu situation between tbe imperial fora and> altera hilla, tbe Sahara must bare been one of■' tat frequented thoroughfares in Borne; andan *i are not surprised to find many allusions to ■ (it sad noise. It was the peculiar aversion ofbsaai,— a man, indeed, of many aversions (" Kgo■- I'rxBTtao praepono Suburae," Sot. iii. 5); aii a aii friend's character which had not escaped I of Martial (xii. 18):— "Dum tu forsitan inquietus errasClamusa, Juveaalis, in Subura." » fptket chmota here probably refers to theas rf Kiatrant chapmen: for we learn from othersssrai in Martial that the Sobura was tlie chiefawn which be used to market (rii. 31, x. 94,M cf. Jar. xL 13G, seq.) It appears also to * tra the abode of prostitutes (vi. 66; conip,» Asoi v. 58). It was therefore what is corn­er/ called a low neighbour!; -.:: though somemcmktd families seem to have resided in it, ■ Casaar himself in his early life (Sunt. Cats.«»l is the time of Martial, L Arruntius Stella - J > I. The Subura nenses, or inhsbiiants of thekwv kept op to a late period some of the ancientfert which probably belonged to them when * areas*" a distinct village; especially an annual■sat iii the Sacravienses, or inhabitants of the ■ Va, lor tbe bead of the horse sacrificed ton is the Campos Martins every October. IfScbsrsnenaea gained tbe victory they fixed tbei at a tower in the Subura called Ti'RKIsKm, whilst the Sacraviensea. if successful,a it on the Regia- (r'estus, t. r. October Kqum.M. MfiiL; ran,. Diac p. 131.) '-■ -■:< "at the time of the Bepublic the Esquilinesn u have been by no means a favourite orusable place of residence. Part of it was occu-Isy tie Campus Ksquiuxvs, a place used as a»«-cround, principally for tbe very lowest class■saw.sorb as paupers and slaves; whose bodies11> have been frequently cast out and left to rotiwnbtart anv covering of earth. But under the• • i .i especially the later period of it, many•a were erected on the Esquiline. MaecenasUw Srst to improre it, by converting this field ofh, aaa probablv also part of tbe surroundingisuorhrjod, — the pauper burial-ground itselfan ta bars been only 1000 feet long by 300r— as» as agreeable park or garden. Horacei *. U) mentions the laying out of these ccle- la* Eat Esnuiliia habitare salubribus atquetorn in aprico apatiari, qua modo triatesaba afanoem • pec ta bant ossibus agrum." •wan from these lines that the Campus Esqui-« sevaDed tbe agger of Servius Tullius, which,0f these gardens, was converted intowhich people were no longer driven by the disgusting spectacle of mould­ering bones. The Campus Esquilinus being acemetery, must of course have been on the outsideof the agger, since it was not lawful to bury withinthe pomoerium; and Varro (/,./,. v. § 25) mentionsit as " ultra Exquilias," by which be must mean theServian Begion so called, which was bounded by theagger. Its situation is also determined by a passagein Strabo (v. p. 237), where the Via Labicana,which issued from the Esquiline gate at the south­ern extremity of the agger, is said to leave thecampus on the left. It appears to have also beenthe place of execution for slaves and ignoble crimi­nals (Suet. Claud. 23; Tac. Ann. ii. 32, xv. 60;Plant. MiL ii. 4. 6, ed. Bitschl.). There does notseem to be any authority for Becker's assumptionthat tlie whole of the Esquiline outside of the Ser­vian walls was called Campus Esquilinus (Handb.p. 554), nor that after the laying out of the gardensof Maecenas the ancient place of execution was trans­ferred to the Sessorium, near S. Croce in Geruta-lemtne. Part of the campus was the field given, asthe scholiast on Horace says, by some person as aburying-place. The Sessorium mentioned in theExcerpla Valuiana de Odoacre (69) was a palace;and though Theodoric ordered a traitor to be be­headed there it can hardly have been the ordinaryplace of execution for common malefactors. Besidestlie Sessorium mentioned by the scholiasts on Horace(Epod. r. 100, Sal. i. 8. 11) was close to theEsquiline gate, a full mile from S. Croce, and seems,therefore, to have been another name for the CampusEsquilinus, if the scholiasts are right in calling itSessorium. The executions recorded in the passagesbefore quoted from Suetonius and Tacitus took placelong after the gardens of Maecenas were made; yetwhen Tacitus uses the words " extra Portam Exqui-linam," there can be no doubt that he means jtutwithout the gate. It would be a wrong conceptionof the Horti Maecenatis to imagine that they resem­bled a private garden, or even a gentleman's park.They were a common place of recreation for theRoman populace. Thus Juvenal describes the aggeras the usual resort of fortune-tellers. (S. vi. 588.)We see from the description of Horace that not evenall the tombs had been removed. Canidia comesthere to perform her incantations and evoke themanes of the dead; at sight of which infernal ritesthe moon hides herself behind the sepulchres (v.85) r— "lnnamqnc rubentem, Ke foret his testis, post magna latere sepnlcra." Such a place, therefore, might still have been usedfor executions; though, doubtless, bodies were nolonger exposed there, as they had formerly been.These " magna sepulcra" would also indicate thatsome even of the better classes were buried here;and the same thing appears from Cicero. (/'AiV. ix. 7> The Horti Maecenatis probably extended withinthe agger towards the baths of Titus, and it was inthis part that the House op Maecenas seems tohave been situated. Close to these baths, on theNE. Bide, others, bnilt by Trajan, existed in ancienttimes, although all traces of them have now vanished.They have sometimes been confounded with those ofTitus; but there can be no doubt that they weredistinct and separate foundations. Thus the Sotitiamentions in the 3rd Begion the " Thermae Titianaeet Trnjanae;" and their distinction is .