OCR Output 184 ROMAN EMPIRE. The various denominations of men afforded a fund ofprejudice and aversion, of small account in the villagesof Anatolia or Thrace, but which, in the fortune of asoldier, a prelate, or a eunuch, might be often connectedwith the powers of the church and state. Of such adventurers, the most fortunate wasiconoclast, the emperor Leo III.' who, from the moun- ,sUC tains of Isauria, ascended the throne of the 726^840 eas*' ^e was ignorant of sacred and profaneletters; but his education, his reason, perhapshis intercourse with the Jews and Arabs, had inspiredthe martial peasant with a hatred of images; and itwas held to be the duty of a prince, to impose on hissubjects the dictates of his own conscience. But inthe outset of an unsettled reign, during ten years of toiland danger, Leo submitted to the meanness of hypo­crisy, bowed before the idols, which he despised, and sa­tisfied the. Roman pontiff with the annual professions ofhis orthodoxy and zeal. In the reformation of religion,his first steps were moderate and cautious; he assembleda great council of senators and bishops, and enacted withtheir consent, that all the images should be removed fromthesanctuary and altar to a properheight in the churches,where they might be visible to the eyes, and inaccessibleto the superstition, of the people. But it was impossibleon either side to check the rapid though adverse impulseof veneration and abhorrence: in their lofty position, thesacred images still edified their votaries and reproachedthe tyrant. He was himself provoked by resistance and lib. *. p. 258.) The Armenian churches are still content with the cross; (Missionstin Levant, torn. 3. p. 148.) but surely the superstitious Greek is unjust to the su­perstition of the Germans of the twelfth century. • Our original, but not impartial, monuments of the Iconoclasts must be drawnfrom the Acts of the Councils, (torn. 8. and 9.) Collect . Lnbbr. edit . Venet . andthe historical writings of Theophanes, Nicephoras, Manasses, Cedrenus, Zonaraa,&c. Of the modem Catholics, Baronius, Pagi, Natalis Alexander, (Hist. Eccles.Seculum 8. and 9.) and Maimbourg, (Hist . des Conoclastes) have treated thesubject with learning, passion, and credulity. The Protestant labours of FrederickSpanheim (Historia Imaginarum Restitnta) and James Basnage, (Hist . desEglises Reformers, torn. t. lib. 23. p. 1339 — 1385.) are cast into the Icouoclastscale. With this mutual aid, and opposite tendency, it is easy for us to poise thebalance with philosophic indifference.