OCR Output 200 ROMAN EMPIRE. guarded the patrimony of St. Peter from the calamitiesof war; if the Christians, who visited the holy thresh­old, would have sheathed their swords in the presenceof the apostle and his successor. But this mystic circlecould have been traced only by the wand of a legislatorand a sage; this pacific system was incompatible withthe zeal and ambition of the popes; the Romans werenot addicted, like the inhabitants of Elis, to the inno­cent and placid labours of agriculture; and the barbari­ans of Italy, though softened by the climate, were farbelow the Grecian states in the institutions of publicand private life. A memorable example of repentanceand piety was exhibited by Liutprand, king of theLombards. In arms, at the gate of the Vatican, the con­queror listened to the voice of Gregory II.b withdrewhis troops, resigned his conquests, respectfully visitedthe church of St. Peter, and after performing his devo­tions, offered his sword and dagger, his cuirass andmantle, his silver cross and bis crown of gold, on thetomb of the apostle. But this religious fervour was theillusion, perhaps the artifice, of the moment; the senseof interest is strong and lasting; the love of arms andrapine was congenial to the Lombards; and both theprince and people were irresistibly tempted by the dis­orders of Italy, the nakedness of Rome, and the unwar-like profession of her new chief. On the first edicts ofthe emperor, they declared themselves the champions ofthe holy images; Liutprand invaded the province ofRomagna, which had already assumed that distinctiveappellation; the Catholics of the exarchate yielded with­out reluctance to his civil and military power; and aforeign enemy was introduced for the first time into theimpregnable fortress of Ravenna. That city and fortresswere speedily recovered by the active diligence and ma­ritime forces of the Venetians; and those faithful sub-edition in duodecimo), and the judicious reflections of Polybius. (torn. 1. lib. 4.p. 466. edit. Gionov.) b The speech of Gregory to the Lombard is finely composed by Sigonius, (deRpgno lialnr, lib. 3. Opera, torn. '-'. p. 173.) who imitates the licence and the•pint of Sallust or Liw.