OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 49 tired and twenty miles, a rare variety of soil and climate; the intermediate valleysand elevated plains abound with rich pastures, perpetual streams, and fruits of adelicious taste and uncommon magnitude. This fair solitude is decorated with theruins of Lambesa, a Roman city, once the seat of a legion, and the residence offorty thousand inhabitants. The Ionic temple of iEsculapius is encompassed withMoorish huts; and the cattle now graze in the midst of an amphitheatre, underthe shade of Corinthian columns. A sharp perpendicular rock rises above thelevel of the mountain, where the African princes deposited their wives and trea­sure; and a proverb is familiar to the Arabs, that the man may eat fire, who daresto attack the craggy cliffs and inhospitable natives of mount Aurasius. This har­dy enterprise was twice attempted by the eunuch Solomon: from the first, he re­treated with some disgrace; and in the second, his patience and provisions werealmost exhausted; and he must again have retired, if he had not yielded to the im-tuous courage of his troops, who audaciously scaled, to the astonishment of theoors, the mountain, the hostile camp, and the summit of the Geminian rock.A citadel was erected to secure this important conquest, and to remind the barba­rians of their defeat: and as Solomon pursued his march to the west, the long-lostprovince of Mauritanian Sitifi was again annexed to the Roman empire. TheMoorish war continued several years after the departure of Belisarius; but thelaurels which he resigned to a faithful lieutenant, may be justly ascribed to his owntriumph. The experience of past faults, which may sometimes correct the mature age ofan individual, is seldom profitable to the successive generations of mankind. Thenations of antiquity, careless of each others safety were separately vanquished and•enslaved by the Romans. This awful lesson might have instructed the barbariansof the west to oppose, with timely counsels and confederate arms, the unboundedambition of Justinian. Yet the same error was repeated, the same consequenceswere felt, and the Goths, both of Italy and Spain, insensible of their approachingdanger, beheld with indifference, and even with joy, the rapid downfal of theVandals. After the failure of the royal line, Theudes, a valiant and powerfulchief, ascended the throne of Spain, which he had formerly administered in thename of Theodoric, and his infant grandson. Under his command, the Visigothsbesieged the fortress of Ceuta on the African coast: but, while they spent the sab­bath day in peace and devotion, the pious security of their camp was invaded by asally from the town; and the king himself, with some difficulty and danger, es­caped from the hands of a sacrilegious enemy. (1) It was not long before his prideand resentment were gratified by a suppliant embassj' from the unfortunate Geli-mer, who implored, in his distress, the aid of the Spanish monarch. But, insteadof sacrificing these unworthy passions to the dictates of generosity and prudence,Theudes amused the ambassadors, till he was secretly informed of the loss of Car­thage, and then dismissed them with the obscure and contemptuous advice, to seekin their native country a true knowledge of the state of the Vandals.(2) Thelong continuance of the Italian war delayed the punishment of the Visigoths; andthe eyes of Theudes were closed before they tasted the fruits of his mistaken po­licy. After his death, the sceptre of Spain was disputed by a civil war. Theweaker candidate solicited the protection of Justinian; and ambitiously subscribeda treaty of alliance, which deeply wounded the independence and happiness of biscountry. Several cities, both on the ocean and the Mediterranean, were ceded tothe Roman troops, who afterwards refused to evacuate those pledges, as it shouldseem, either of safety or payment; and as they were fortified by perpetual sup­plies from Africa, they maintained their impregnable stations, for the mischie­vous purpose of inflaming the civil and religious factions of the barbarians. Se­venty years elapsed before this painful thorn could be extirpated from thebosom of the monarchy; and as long as the emperors retained any share ofthese remote and useless possessions, their vanity might number Spain in the list oftheir provinces, and the successors of Alaric in the rank of their vassals. (3) The eiTor of the Goths who reigned in Italy was less excusable than that oftheir Spanish brethren, and their punishment was still more immediate and terri- (1) Iiidor. Chron. p. 72S. edit. Grot. Mariana, Hist. Hispan. lib. t. c. 8. p. 175. Yet according to Isidore, the>iege of Ceuta, and the death of Theudes, happened, A.M. H. 586. A. D. 548. and the place was defended, notby the Vandali, but by the Roman*. • (2) Procopius, Vandal, lib. i. c. 24. (3) See the original chronicle of Isidore, and the fifth and sixth books of the History of Spain by Mariana.The Itomani were finally ejpelled by SuintiU), the king of the Visigoths, (A. D. 621-6260 after thejtr reunionto the catholic church. Vol. HI 7