OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 27 the troops for Africa, showed very clearly what the Romanintentions were; the senate acted with fearful harshness,but it did not put on the semblance of concession. TheCarthaginians, however, would not open their eyes; there wasno statesman found, who had the power to move the unstablemultitude of the city either to thorough resistance or tothorough resignation. When they heard at the same time ofthe horrible decree of war and of the endurable demand forhostages, they complied immediately with the latter; andstill clung to hope, because they had not the courage fully torealize the import of surrendering themselves beforehand tothe arbitrary will of a mortal foe. The consuls sent thehostages from Lilybaeum to Rome, and informed the Cartha­ginian envoys that they would learn further particulars inAfrica. The landing was accomplished without resistance,and the provisions demanded were supplied. When theGerusia of Carthage appeared in a body at the head-quartersin Utica to receive the further orders, the consuls requiredin the first instance the disarming of the city. To the ques­tion of the Carthaginians, who was in that case to protectthem even against their own emigrants—against the army,which had swelled to 20,000 men, under the command ofHasdrubal who had saved himself from the sentence of deathby flight—it was replied, that this would be provided for bythe Romans. Accordingly the council of the city obsequi­ously appeared before the consuls with all their fleet-material,all the military stores of the public magazines, all the armsthat were found in the possession of private persons—to thenumber of 3000 catapults and 200,000 sets of armour—andinquired whether anything more was desired. Then the con­sul Lucius Marcius Censorinus rose and announced to thecouncil, that in accordance with the instructions given by thesenate the existing city was to be destroyed, but that theinhabitants were at liberty to settle anew wherever theychose in their territory, provided it were at a distance of atleast ten miles from the sea. This fearful command aroused in the Phoenicians all the Resistance—shall we say magnanimous or frenzied ?—enthusiasm, which of the Car-was displayed previously by the Tyrians against Alexander, tnag1niaDS-and subsequently by the Jews against Vespasian. Unparal­leled as was the patience with which this nation could endurebondage and oppression, as unparalleled was now the tumul­tuous fury of that mercantile and seafaring population, when