OCR Output A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS. to Cneius Piso, upon condition that he changed ,family name; and that his brother Marcus, dives, "i-of all civil honours, should be condemned to banisi. Vment for the space of ten years, with a sum, however,of fifty thousand great sesterces for his support. Indeference to the solicitations of Livia, it was proposedto grant a free pardon to Plancina. XVIII. This sentence, in many particulars, wasmitigated by Tiberius. The family name, he said,ought not to be abolished, while that of Marc Antony,who appeared in arms against his country, as well asthat of Julius Antonius, who by his intrigues disho­noured the house of Augustus, subsisted still, andfigured in the Roman annals. Marcus Piso was leftin possession of his civil dignities and his father's for­tune. Avarice, as has been already observed, wasnot the passion of Tiberius. On this occasion, thedisgrace incurred by the partiality shown to Plancina,softened his temper, and made him the more willingto extend his mercy to the son. Valerius Messalinusmoved, that a golden statue might be erected in thetemple of Mars the Avenger. An altar to Venge­ance was proposed by Csecina Severus. Both thesemotions were overruled by the emperor. The principleon which he argued was, that public monuments,however proper in cases of foreign conquest, were notsuited to the present juncture. Domestic calamityshould be lamented, and as soon as possible consignedto oblivion. Messalinus added to his motion a vote of thanks toTiberius and Livia, to Antonia, Agrippina, and Dru-sus, for their zeal in bringing to justice the enemiesof Germanicus. The name of Claudius was notmentioned. Lucius Asprenas desired to know whe­ther that omission was intended. The consequencewas, that Claudius was inserted in the vote. Uponan occasion like this, it is impossible, not to pause fora moment, to make a reflection that naturally risesout of the subject. When we review what has beendoing in the world, is it not evident, that in all trans­actions, whether of ancient or of modern date, somestrange caprice of fortune turns all human wisdom to