OCR Output PYTHO. QUADRATAE. 689 of Xrimgoras, a Greek mathematician, who*srarsl the height of Olympus from these partsp. Plot A am I. Paul 15). Games were also*-tTat*d here in honour of Apollo. (Steph. B. *. v.-*.»».) Pvthium commanded an important passtmo Mount Olympus. 'I bis pass and that ofrsepe an the only two leading from MacedoniaLh* r»rth-east of Thessaly. Leake therefore■rss Pjthiam on the angle of the plain between• Itmrylo and Lirddhi. though no remains of tbeirr.t town have been discovered there. (Liv. xfii.:. Hbu Steph. B., IL ce.; Ptol. iii. 13. § 42; Leake,■ tesjs Greece, vol. iii. p.341,seq.)i'l THO. [Delphi.]rTTHCPOLIS. [Mtthepous.]rV URATES. [Euphrates.]I V X1TES (rii>{in|i), a small river in the east ofthat, emptying itself into the Euxine 60 stadia•tr north-east of Prytanis. (Plin. vi. 4;san. Peripl P. K. p. 6; Anonym. Peripl. P. E.Ik.) It 19 possibly tbe same as the Cissa mcn-»■! by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 6), and is commonlyninl with toe modern Vitzeh. [L.S.] rTXDS. [BUXEHTUM.] rTACEBXI. [QrEBqiERsi.](1 AX>f ( K i. a great German tribe in the of Bohemia, in Moravia and Hungary,Gabreta, the Uercynian and .Sar-and tbe Danube. (Tac. Germ.4am. ni. 29, Out. iii. 5, 21; Ptol. ii. 11. §Ilsv rr. 25.) They were surrounded on the■ •■■ ->t by the Marcomaniii, with whom theyalways closely connected, on the north by theafc Bad Obi, on tbe east by the Jazyges Me-Hjv. and on tbe south by tbe Pannonians. Ittkssnrn when they came to occupy that country,( ncu probable that they arrived there aboutanT tune w ben the Murcomanni establishedBohemia. At tbe time when theking Maroboduus and his successorring; driven from their kingdom, im-prutection of the Romans, the latter inI y assigned to them and their companions in!<:»<.•!! the riven Munis anda ax-i appointed Vannius, a Quadian. king oftnvry (Tac Amm. ii. 63; Plin. iv. 25). Thistxjduoi of the Quadi, after the expulsion ofhas, wast divided between his nephews VangioIan. who, how ever, continued to keep up a good»Ct3.i-.r.s7 with the Romans. (Tac. Ann. xii.fc> Tsaotas (<,trm. I c.) says that down toka usr tbe ilsrcomanni and Quadi had beena*J by kings of the house of Maroboduus, buttsss fcreigrjera ruled over them, though the• sf these mlrrs was dependent on that of thet •x.terrm. At s later tune the Quadi took an-ssrt as Use war of t lie Marcomanni against thery annihilated the whole armywas saved only by a suddeni Ihon lass. l»i-8). Notwithstanding thetarn ^vsocJnded with tbem, they still continued=4* tar Bornaxt* by renewed acts of hostility,|a sfanyssrar was obliged, for the protectioni asm sWaniiisarii. to erect several forts bothI sr=«xn*i their kingdom, in consequence ofla* people were nearly driven to abandonrmjKXj. (Dion Cast. bui. 11, 13, 20.) Io. a. A. D. 180 the emperor Commodus renewed the peacewith them (Dion Cass. Ixxii. 2; Lamprid. Com. 3;Herodian, i. 6), but they still continued their in­roads into the Roman empire (Eutrop. ix. 9; Vo-pisc. Aurel. 18; Amm. Marc. xvii. 12, xxix. 6).Towards the end of the fourth century the Quadientirely disappear from history; they had probablymigrated westward with the Suevi, for Quadi arementioned among the Suevi in Spain. (Hieron. Ep.9.) According to Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 12)the Quadi resembled in many respects the Sarma-tians, for they used long spears and a coat of mailconsisting of linen covered with thin plates of horn;they bad in war generally three swift horses forevery man, to enable him to change them, and wereon the whole better as skirmishers than in an openbattle in the field. Ptolemy (I. c.) mentions aconsiderable number of towns in their country,such as Kburodunum, Meliodunum, Caridorgis, Me-doslanium, &c.; the Celtic names of which suggestthat those districts previous to the arrival of theQuadi had been inhabited by Celts, who were eithersubdued by them or had become amalgamated withthem. The name Quadi itself seems to be con­nected with the Celtic word col, cold, or coad, thatis, a wood or forest, an etymology which receivessupport from tbe fact that Strabo (vii. p. 290), thefirst ancient author that notices them, mentionsthem under the name of KiiAJoi/oi. Tacitus evi­dently regards them as Germans, but Latham (adTac. Germ. p. 154) is inclined to treat them asSarmatians. (Conip. Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 223,fol.) [L. S.] QUADIA'TES. In the inscription on the archof Susa, published by Maffei, there is a list of tbeAlpine peoples who were under the dominion ofCottius. The first name is the Seguvii, and thelast is the Quadiates. There is nothing that enablesus to fix tbe position of the Quadiates. Pliny (iii. 4) mentions a people in Gallia Nar-bonensis under tbe name of Quariates. After namingthe Oxybii and Lingauni [Linoaini], he adds:"Super quos Suetri, Quariates, Adunicates." Thevalley of Queirat on the left bank of the Durance,below Brianeon, and a little above Embran, is sup­posed to represent the position of the Quariates.D'Anville conjectures that the Quadiates of theinscription may be the same as the Quariates, forthe R of the inscription, if it is not very clear, mayhave been taken for a D; or the complete namemay have been Quadriates, the name of Queirat inold records being Quadriatium. [G. L.] QUADRA'TA (sc. Castra). 1. A Roman fortin Upper Pannonia, on the river Savus, between thetowns of Noviodunum and Siscia. (It. Ant. pp.260, 274; Gcogr. Rav. iv. 19; Tab. Peat.) Noremains appear to be extant, and tbe site accordinglyis unknown. 2. A fort in Upper Pannonia, on tbe road be­tween Arrabona and Camuntum, not far from thebanks of the Danube. (It. Ant. p. 247.) Muchar(Xoricum, p. 264) identifies it with a place be­tween Orar and Orotzcar, now occupied by a largefarm of Count Zitsi. [L. S.] QUADKA'TAE, a village or station in GallisCisalpina, on tbe road from Augusta Taurinorum toTicinum. The Itineraries place it 22 or 23 milesfrom the former city and 16 or 19 from Rigomagus(Itin. Ant. pp. 340, 356; ltin. Hier. p. 557); hutthe latter station is itself of uncertain site. Qua-dratao must have been situated between Csmuas