OCR Output 30 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. of a fountain hard by, and bid her take care,and bring up the child, because she shouldbe very happy by the preservation of Ismael.She then took courage upon the prospect ofwhat was promised her, and meeting withsome shepherds, by their care she got clearof the distresses she had been in. When the lad was grown up, he married awife, by birth an Egyptian; from whence themother was herself derived originally. Ofthis wife were born to Ismael twelve sons;Nabioth, Kedar, Abdeel, Mabsam, Idumas,Masmaos, Massaos, Chodad, Theman, Jetur,Naphesus, and Kadmas. These inhabited allthe country from Euphrates to the Red Sea,and called it Nabatene. They are an Ara­bian nation, and name their tribes from these,both because of their own virtue, and becauseof the dignity of Abraham their father. CHAP. XIII. of isaac, Abraham's legitimate son. NOW Abraham greatly loved Isaac, asbeing his only begotten,* and given tohim at the borders of old age, by the favourof God. The child also endeared himself tohis parents still more, by the exercise ofevery virtue, and adhering to his duty to hisparents, and being zealous in the worship ofGod. Abraham placed also his own happi­ness wholly in this prospect, that when heshould die he should leave his son in a safeand secure condition, which accordingly heobtained by the will of God; who being de­sirous to make an experiment of Abraham'sreligious disposition towards himself, ap­peared to him, and enumerated all the bless­ings he had bestowed on him; how he madehim superior to his enemies; and that hisson Isaac, who was the principal part of hispresent happiness, was derived from him, andhe said that he required this son of his as asacrifice, and a holy oblation. Accordinglyhe commanded him to carry him to the moun- * Note that both here and Heb. xi. 17. Isaac is calledAbraham's iMvoyevy, only begotten son, though he at thesame time had another son, Ismael. The Septuagint ex­press the true meaning by rendering the text by iyartrp-h)-the beloved son. t Gen. xxii. 2. \ Here is a plain error in the copies, which say thatking David afterwards built the temple on this mount tain Moriah,f and to build an altar, and offerhim for a burnt-offering upon it; for that thiswould best manifest his religious dispositiontowards him, if he preferred what waspleasing to God before the preservation ofhis own son. Now Abraham thought that it was notright to disobey God in any thing, but thathe was obliged to serve him in every circum­stance of life, since all creatures that liveenjoy their life by his providence, and thekindness he bestows on them; accordinglyhe concealed this command of God; and hisown intentions about the slaughter of his sonfrom his wife, as also from every one of hisservants, otherwise he would have been hin­dered from his obedience to God; and hetook Isaac together with two of his servants,and laying what things were necessary for asacrifice, upon an ass, he went away to themountain. Now the two servants went alongwith him two days, but on the third day, assoon as he saw the mountain, he left thoseservants that were with him till then in theplain, and having his son alone with him, hecame to the mountain. It was that mountainupon which king David afterwards builtJ thetemple. Now they had brought with themevery thing necessary for a sacrifice, except­ing the animal that was to be offered. NowIsaac was twenty-five|| years old, and as hewas building the altar, he asked his fatherwhat he was about to offer, since there wasno animal there for an oblation; to which itwas answered, that God would provide him­self an oblation, he being able to make aplentiful provision for men out of what theyhave not, and to deprive others of what theyalready have, when they put too much trusttherein; that, therefore, if God pleased to bepresent and propitious at this sacrifice hewould provide himself with an oblation. As soon as the altar was prepared, andAbraham had laid on the wood, and all thingswere entirely ready, he said to his son, "O son!I poured out a vast number of prayers that Moriah, while it was certainly no other than king Solo­mon, who built that temple, as indeed Procopius cites itfrom Josephus; only if we change ispov into /3u^hv,temple into altar, we "eed not correct the name, for itwas David and not Solomon, who built the first altarthere, as we learn, 2 Sam. xnv. 18. &c. 1 Cbxon. rxi.22. &c. II An. 1922.