OCR Output CHAP. L. 289 in his native land of Chaldea: of the myriads of pro­phets, Moses and Christ alone lived and reigned; andthe remnant of the inspired writings was comprised inthe books of the Old and the New Testament. Themiraculous story of Moses is consecrated and embel­lished in the Koran;0 and the captive Jews enjoy thesecret revenge of imposing their own belief on thenations whose recent creeds they deride. For the au­thor of Christianity, the Mahometans are taught by theprophet to entertain a high and mysterious reverence.11Jesus. Verily, Christ Jesus, the-son of Mary, is theapostle of God, and his word, which he conveyed intoMary, and a Spirit proceeding from him: honourable inthis world, and in the world to come; and one of thosewho approach near to the presence of God.* The won­ders of the genuine and apocryphal gospels'are profuselyheaped on his head; and the Latin church has not dis­dained to borrow from the Koran the immaculate con­ception* of his virgin mother. Yet Jesus was a meremortal; and, at the day of judgment, his testimony willserve to condemn both the Jews, who reject him as aprophet, and the Christians, who adore him as the Sonof God. The malice of his enemies aspersed his repu­tation, and conspired against his life; but their inten­tion only was guilty, a phantom or a criminal was sub­stituted on the cross, and the innocent saint was trans­lated to the seventh heaven.' During six hundred years 0 The articles of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Sec. in the Bibliotheque ofd'Herbelot, are gaily bedecked with the fanciful legends of the Mahometans, whohave built on the ground-work of Scripture and the Talmud. P Koran, c. 7. p. 128, &c. c. 10. p. 173, &c. D'Herbelot, p. 647, &c. 1 Koran, c. 3. p. 40. c. 4. p. 80. D'Herbelot, p. 399, &c. 'See the gospel of St. Thomas, or of the Infancy, in the Codex ApocryphusN.T. of Fabricius, who collects the various testimonies concerning it. (p. 128—158.) It was published in Greek by Cotelier, and in Arabic by Sike, who thinksour present copy more recent than Mahomet. Yet his quotations agree with theoriginal about the speech of Christ in his cradle, his living birds of clay, &c. (Sikt,c. 1. p. 168, 169. c. 36. p. 198,199. c. 46. p. 206. CoUlier, c. 2. p. 160, 161.) • It is darkly hinted in the Koran, (c. 3. p. 39.) and more clearly explained bythe tradition of the Sonnites. (Sale's Note, and Maracci, torn. 2. p. 112.) In thetwelfth century, the immaculate conception was condemned by St . Bernard as apresumptuous novelty. (Fra Paolo, Istoria del Concilio di Trento, lib. 2.) 'See the Koran, c. 3. v. 53. and c. 4. v. 156. of Maracci's edition. Deus estprestantissimus dolose agentium (an odd phrase) .... nee crucifizerunt eum, aed VOL. VI. U