OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223 care of his reputation, which was exposed to the eyes chap.of the universe, restrained the philosophic monarch xvm,from violating the laws of justice and toleration,,which he himself had so recently established. Butthe provincial ministers of his authority were placedin a less conspicuous station. In the exercise ofarbitrary power, they consulted the wishes, ratherthan the commands, of their sovereign; and venturedto exercise a secret and vexatious tyranny against thesectaries, on whom they were not permitted to conferthe honours of martyrdom. The emperor, who dis­sembled as long as possible his knowledge of the in­justice that was exercised in his name, expressed hisreal sense of the conduct of his officers, by gentlereproofs and substantial rewards. The most effectual instrument of oppression, with They are l,ii i i i i it i i condemned which they were armed, was the law that obliged the to restoreChristians to make full and ample satisfaction for the tempief?"temples which they had destroyed under the pre­ceding reign. The consecrated lands, which had in­creased the patrimony of the sovereign or of theclergy, were clearly denned, and easily restored. Buton these lands, and on the ruins of Pagan superstition,the Christians had frequently erected their own reli­gious edifices: and as it was necessary to remove thechurch before the temple could be rebuilt, the justiceand piety of the emperor were applauded by one party,while the other deplored and execrated his sacrilegi­ous violence*. After the ground was cleared, therestitution of those stately structures, which had beenlevelled with the dust; and of the precious orna­ments, which had been converted to Christian uses;swelled into a very large account of damages and debt.The authors of the injury had neither the ability nor * If we cornpare the gentle language of Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 60. p. 286.)with the passionate exclamations of Gregory (Orat. iii. p. 86, 87.), we may find itdifficult to persuade ourselves, that the two orators are really describing the sameevents.