OCR Output PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 615 i'^!m "liar if the city" wu peculiar to the Ty-nm H« tpfears in Greek mythology under thestab; illmd appellation of Melicertes. Cicero(A. A & 16) alii the Tynan Hercules the son ofJsa* ul Aneria, that is of Baal and Aahtaroth.Twnmiftatival at Tyre called44 The Awakening* Hanks," which seems connected with his cha­nter M• HUVfod. (Joseph. Ant. viii. 5.) Inu uaipk st Okies there was do image, and histratot tat u mr-borning fire,.tfifldttr Phoenician deity was Dagon, who had aUtii tad, ud teems to bare been identical withMum of Babjlooia. fie fbmiciao goddess Onca was identified byUs tiaaka with Athena. One of the gates ofI »a vai named after her, and she was also wor-•aat Corinth. ( Kuphor. op. Step*, ijjyz. (,*>.;h»;ch. t r; Tata, act Lycoph. Cast. 658.) It is™ prukmbia that the Athena Pulias of Athens•u tmti from Thebes. The Palladiorn of Troyt» ika a! Phuenicisn origin.4< asrht be expected among a maritime people, * i'lMnadim had sereral marine deities, as Po-*** Kemu, and Pontus. Poseidon was wor- tt Berytus, and a marine Jupiter at Sidon.T> \rmtt deities of navigation were, however, theJawi. da teat of whose worship was also st Bery-sv ud *ioM images, under the name of Pataeci,** pUad on the prows of Phoenician ships. 8. 37.) They were the sons of Hephaestos,11* t<rpa»n Phta, and were represented ss ridi-«-» jsk pigmaic figures. By the Greeks andtarv were identified with their Anaces,s» ai Peutas. Aesculapius, who was iden-a» r.ii tat air, was their brother, and also had a'H t: berrtaa. (Pans, vii. 23. § 6.)»• on but little of the religious rites andtmtrnim of the Phoenicians. They prac-al ojiaaaiaWm, which they learned from theyaas; but owing to their intercourse with theswa, as rite does not seem to have been veryat? •oatrvtd. (Herod, ii. 104; Aristoph. A v.t' V* are unable to trace their speculativeLm'. bat, as far as can be observed, they seemw*» Was material and atheistic, and. like thew vsaue nationi, the Phoenicians had no idea1 ?<w state of existence. *"H- xLursuca, Litekatube, asd Akt. at 'otaarcial habits of the Phoenicians did notu uww wsrhke spirit, and Chariton (vii. 2)sko the Tyriana as ambitious of military'Thar reputation for wisdom and enterprise • on ia the jealous and often ironical bitterness«t*a they are spoken of by Hebrew writers.s «-uia and power waa envied by their neigh-l *t« smW use of their services, and abused ■a. (£snfc, xxxviii. 2, 12; Isaiah,LU.) Tbs Greeks expressed their opinion ofi toitlety by the proverb Svpot *ol-l\ which may be rendered by our " Seti fc catch a thief;" and their reputation for■> as narked by the saving ^vafia +om-fc'e ra—i.aia las." (Smb. iii. p. 170.) But■xaaj eoBmercial raatiun ia always liable totaa of tku description. In common, andavaa is confusion, with Syria, Phoenicia wasby the Romans for the corruption of its»>. saJ at the nursery of mountebanks and mu­ss, l»ar.fiat. L 2. I; Jot. iii- 62, viii. 159;BV ». U.) The mimes of Tyre and Berytus were renowned far ami wide. (Exy. tot Mundi,Hudson, Geogr. 3/in. iii. p. 6.) Ancient authority almost unanimously attributesthe invention of an alphabet to the Phoenicians.Lucan (Phan. iii. 220) ascribes the use of writingto them before the invention of the papyrus in Egypt.The Phoenician Cadmus was reputed to have intro­duced the use of writing among the loniana; andHerodotus says that be saw the Cad mean letters atThebes. (Herod, v. 58, 59; Plin. vii. 57; Diod. r.24; Tac. Ana. xi. 14; Mela. i. 12, &c.) The in­scriptions found in Thera and Melos exhibit the oldestforms of Greek letters hitherto discovered; and theseislands were colonised by Phoenicians. No inscriptionshave been found in Phoenicia itself; but from severaldiscovered in Phoenician colonies — none of which,however, are older than the fourth centnry u. c.—the Phoenician alphabet is seen to consist, like theHebrew, of twenty-two letters. It was probably morescanty at first, since the Greek alphabet, which wasborrowed from it, consisted originally of only sixteenletters (Plin. I. c.); and, according to Ircnaeus(a Jr. Jim ret. ii. 41), the old Hebrew alphabet hadonly fifteen. The use of hieroglyphics in Egyptwas, in all probability, older. (Tac. /. <-.) Theconnection of this Phonetic system with the Phoe­nician alphabet cannot be traced with any certainty;yet it is probable that the latter is only a moresimple and practical adaptation of it. The namesof the Phoenician letters denote some natural object,as aleph, an ox, beth, a house, daleth, a door, &c.,whence it has been conjectured that the figures ofthese objects were taken to represent the sounds oftho respective letters; but the resemblance of theforms is rather fanciful. Babylonian brirks, inscribed with Phoenician cha­racters, have long been known, and indicate tlieresidence of Phoenicians at Babylon. In the recentdiscoveries at Nineveh other bricks have been foundwith inscriptions both in the Phoenician and cuneiformcharacter. Phoenician inscriptions have also beendiscovered in Egypt, but in an Aramaean dialect.(Gesen. Afon. J'hoen. lib. ii. c, 9.) The purest ex­amples of the Phoenician alphabet are found in theinscriptions of Malta, Athens, Cyprus, and Sardinia,and on the coins of Phoenicia and Sicily. The original literature of the Phoenicians haswholly perished, and even in Greek translations butlittle has been preserved. Their earliest works seemto have been chiefly of a philosophical and theologicalnature. Of their two oldest writers, Sanchoniathoand Mochus, or Moschus, of Sidon, accounts will befound in the IHctionary of Biography and My­thology, as well as a discussion of the question re­specting the genuineness of the remains attributedto the former; on which subject the reader may alsoconsult Lobeck (Aglaopkamut. ii. p. 1264, sq<].),Orelli (Sanchoniathonit Fragm. p. xiii. sqq.), Creu-zer (Symbolik, pt i. p. 110, 3rd edit.). Movers(Die I'honizier, i. p. 120, sqq.; and in the Jahr-bucher fur Theologie u. chrittt Philotophie, 1836,vol. vii. pt. i.), and Kenrick (Phoenicia, ch. xi.).Later Phoenician writers are known only underGreek names, as Tbeudotus, Hypsicrates, Philo-stratua, &c, and blend Greek legends with then-native authorities. We learn from Joarphus (c.Apion. i. 17) that there were at Tyre publio re­cords, very carefully kept, and extending throueh along series of years, upon which the later historiesseem to have been founded; but unfortunately thesehave all perished. Thus we are deprived of the II 4