OCR Output B. II. 135 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. them. Of these imaginary schemes was Archidamus full,whilst he lay before Acharnae. The Athenians, so long as the enemy remained about Eleu-sis and the plain of Thriasia, conceived some hopes that theywould advance no farther. They put one another in mind,that Pleistoanax, son of Pausanias king of the Lacedaemonians,when, fourteen years before this war, he invaded Attica withan army of Peloponnesians, came only as far as to Eleusis andThrias, and then retreated without penetrating any farther-that, upon this account he had been banished Sparta, becauseit looked as if he had been bribed to such an unseasonable re­treat. But when they saw the enemy advanced to Acharnae,which was distant but sixty stadia* from Athens, they thoughttheir incursions were no longer to be endured. It appeared, asit reasonably might, a heavy grievance, to have all their inlandsthus ravaged within their sight; a scene like this the young­er sort never had beheld, nor the elder but once—in the Persianwar. The bulk of the people, but especially the younger part,were for sallying out and fighting, and not to stand tamelylooking upon the insult. Numbers of them assembled toge­ther in a tumultuous manner, which was the rise of great con­fusion, some loudly demanding to march out against the ene­my, and others restraining them from it. The soothsayersgave out all manner of predictions, which every hearer inter­preted by the key of his own passions. The Acharnians, re­garding themselves as no contemptible part of the Athenianbody, because their lands had been wasted, in a most earnestmanner insisted upon a sally. The whole city was in a fer­ment, and all their resentment centered on Pericles. Theyquite forgot the prudent conduct he had formerly planned outfor them.—They reproached him as a general that durst nothead them against their enemies, and regarded him as authorof all the miseries which their city endured. " nets, ifc. t3V. Isfc. all the decks would be crowded with seamen. What"a dashing of oars, music sounding, boatswains bawling; nothing but" hurry and confusion! Such. I am well assured, would then be the case."• About six English miles.