OCR Output CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 325 guardians expatiated publicly, on the injustice of thesentence, among the people of their own order, in theforum; and, having made up a party, seized the younglady, and carried her off' from her mother's house. Inopposition to them, a party of the nobility, still moreformidable, joined the injured youth, and bloody workensued. The people, who bore no resemblance to the peopleof Rome, were worsted, and marched out of the city inarms* posting themselves upon an eminence, whencethey laid waste the lands of the nobility with fire andsword: and having, by the hopes of plunder, drawn agreat many mechanics to their party, they made prepa­rations for besieging the city, which hitherto had sus­tained no damage from the insurrection. War now ap­peared in all its dreadful shapes and colours : the wholecommunity being as it were, infected with the distrac­tion of two young men, who were contending for a mar­riage, fatal to themselves, and destructive to their coun­try. Neither thougTit their internal resources sufficient forthe conflict; for which reason, the nobility applied tothe Romans for relief, while the city was besieged, andthe commons called in the Volsci, to assist them in thereduction of the city. The Volsci appeared first beforeArdea, under the command ot Cluiiius, an ./E^uian ge­neral, and shut up the city by a line of circumvallationdrawn round its walls. When these accounts werebrought to Rome, the consul Geganius lost not a mo­ment in marching with his army, ami encamped withinthree miles of the enemy; where, as the day was farspent, he ordered the troops to refresh themselves. Atthe fourth watch, he proceeded and carried on his workswith such expedition, that at sun-rising, the Volscifound themselves blocked up by a fortification, superiorin strength to that wherewith they had invested the city;whilst, at another quarter, the consul had carried hisworks to the walls of Ardea, that his army might havea free communication with the town. P