OCR Output O F R O M E. .1<Ji / of troops, at a time when, all their neighbours re- B o o K.maining in quiet, there was no occafion either for . ^'^•war, or for any preparation for it. This time of Y.R. 3is.tranquillity was fucceeded by a bufy year, wherein B.c. «7.Proculus Geganius Macerinus and Lucius MeneniusLanatus were confuls; a year remarkable for a vari­ety of dangers and difafters j for feditions, for fa­mine, and for the people having almoft bowed theirnecks to the yoke of arbitrary government, feducedby allurements of largefies. One calamity they wereexempt from, foreign war: had this aggravationbeen added to their condition, the aid of all the godscould fcarcely have preferved them. Their misfor­tunes began with a famine; whether owing to theleafon being unfavourable to the productions of theearth; or, the culture of the ground being neglected,while the people were captivated by the pleafures ofthe city, and the aflemblies; for both caufes are men­tioned. The patricians laid the blame on the idle-nefs of the commons: the tribunes fometimes on theevil defigns, fometimes on the negligence of theconfuls. At length the plebeians prevailed, the fe-nate giving no oppofition, that Lucius Minuciusmould be created prefident of the market, whoproved in the courfe of that employment, more fuc-cefsful in guarding the public liberty, than in the im­mediate bufmefs of his own department. Althoughin the end, he obtained both the honour of having re­lieved the fcarcity of provifions, and alfo the gratitudeof the public for that important fervice: finding noeffectual relief to the markets from feveral embaffieswhich he fcnt, by land and fea, to all the neighbour­ing nations, to no purpofe, except that fome corn wasbrought, in no great quantity, from Etruria, he hadrecourfe to the expedient of dealing out, in mares,the fcanty flock of provifions; and, at the fame time,compelled people to difcover their ftores of corn,and to fell whatever they had beyond a month's al­lowance; he robbed the flaves of half of their daily.portion