OCR Output 52 VESPASIAN. [B. III. lutions of ages, they are again sent into pure bodies; whilothe souls of those whose hands have acted madly againstthemselves are received by the darkest place in Hades, andwhile God, who is their father, punishes those that offendagainst either of them in their posterity; for which reasonGod hates such doings, and the crime is punished by ourmost wise legislator. Accordingly, our laws determine, thatthe bodies of such as kill themselves should be exposed tillthe sun be set, without burial, although at the same time itbe allowed by them to be lawful to bury our enemies [sooner].The laws of other nations also enjoin such men's hands to becut off when they are dead, which had been made use of indestroying themselves when alive, while they reckoned, thatas the body is alien from the soul, so is the hand alien fromthe body. It is, therefore, my friends, a right thing to reasonjustly, and not add to the calamities which men bring uponus, impiety towards our Creator. If wo have a mind to pre­serve ourselves, let us do it; for to be preserved by those ourenemies to whom we have given so many demonstrations ofour courage, is no way inglorious ; but if we have a mind todie, it is good to die by the hand of those that have conqueredus. For my part, I will not run over to our enemies' quarters,in order to be a traitor to myself; for certainly I shouldthen be much more foolish than those that deserted to theenemy, since they did it in order to save themselves, and Ishould do it for destruction, for my own destruction. How­ever, I heartily wish the Romans may prove treacherous inthis matter; for if, after their offer of their right hand forsecurity, I be slain by them, I shall die cheerfully, and carryaway with me the sense of their perfidiousness, as a conso­lation greater than victory itself." 6. Now these and many the like motives did Josephus useto these men to prevent their murdering themselves; butdesperation had shut their ears, as having long ago devotedthemselves to die, and they were irritated at Josephus.They then ran upon him with their swords in their hands,one from one quarter and another from another, and calledhim a coward, and every one of them appeared openly as if