OCR Output HISTORY OF ROUE.—BOOK X. 221 great, the whole substance of the Samnites being col­lected in a few cities, was given up to the soldiers. 46. The snow had now intirely covered the face ofthe country, and rendered the shelter of houses abso­lutely necessary: the consul therefore led home histroops from Samnium. While he was on his way toRome a triumph was decreed him with universal con­sent : and accordingly he triumphed while in office,and with extraordinary splendor, considering the cir­cumstances of those times. The cavalry and infantrymarched in the procession, adorned with the honorablepresents which they had received. Great numbers ofcrowns were seen, which had been bestowed as marksof honor, for having saved the lives of citizens, or forhaving first mounted walls or ramparts. People's cu­riosity was highly gratified in viewing the spoils of theSamnites, and comparing them, in respect of magni­ficence and beauty, with those taken by his father,which were well known, from being frequently exhi­bited as ornaments of the public places. Several pri­soners of distinction, renowned for their own exploits,and; those of their ancestors, were led in the cavalcade.There were carried in the train two millions and thirty-three thousand asses in weight,1 said to be producedby the sale of the prisoners ; and of silver, taken inthe. cities, one thousand three hundred and thirtypounds. All the silver and brass were lodged in thetieasury, no share of this part of the spoil being givento the soldiers. The ill humor which this excited inthe commons was farther exasperated by their beingobliged to contribute by a tax to the payment of thearmy ; whereas, said they, if the vain parade of con­veying the produce of the spoil to the treasury hadbeen disregarded, donations might have been made tothe soldiers, and the pay of the army also supplied outof that fund. The temple of Quirinus, vowed by hisfather, when dictator, (for that he himself had vowed itin the heat of battle, I do not find in any ancient > 49401.13s. 6d.