OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. of Greece, were diligently strengthened by the labours ofJustinian. From the edge of the sea-shore, throughthe forest and valleys, and as far as the summit of theThessalian mountains, a strong wall was continued,which occupied every practicable entrance. Instead ofa hasty crowd of peasants, a garrison of two thousandsoldiers was stationed along the rampart; granaries ofcom, and reservoirs of water, were provided for theiruse; and by a precaution that inspired the cowardicewhich it foresaw, convenient fortresses were erected fortheir retreat. The walls of Corinth, overthrown by anearthquake, and the mouldering bulwarks of Athensand Plataea, were carefully restored; the barbarians werediscouraged by the prospect of successive and painfulsieges; and the naked cities of Peloponnesus were co­vered by the fortifications of the isthmus of Corinth. Atthe extremity of Europe, another peninsula, the Thra-cian Chersonesus, runs three days' journey into the sea,to form, with the adjacent shores of Asia, the straits ofthe Hellespont. The intervals between eleven populoustowns were filled by lofty woods, fair pastures, and ararble lands: and the isthmus, or thirty-seven stadia or fur­longs, had been fortified by a Spartan general nine hun­dred years before the reign of Justinian.b In an age offreedom and valour, the slightest rampart may preventa surprise; and Procopius appears insensible of the su­periority of ancient times, while he praises the solid con­struction and double parapet of a wall, whose long armsstretched on either side into the sea: but whose strengthwas deemed insufficient to guard the Chersonesus, ifeach city, and particularly Galipoli and Sestus, had notbeen secured by their peculiar fortifications. The longwall, as it was emphatically styled, was a work as dis­graceful in the object, as it was respectable in the execu­tion. The riches of a capital diffuse themselves over b Xenophon Hellenic. lib. 3. c. 2. After a long and tedious conversation withthe Byzantine declaimers, how refreshing is the truth, the simplicity, the elegance ofan Attic writer!