OCR Output B. III. 277 YEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426. At Peparethus also the surge of the sea rose very high, butdid not overflow. An earthquake however demolished partof the fortification*, the town-house, and some few dwel­ling houses. My solution of such effects is this : Where the shock of the earthquake was most violent, it forciblydrove away the sea before it, which suddenly returning againoccasioned these more violent swells. And without an earth­quake I deem all such accidents impossible. The same summer many of other nations, as they hap­pened to be drawn into the quarrel, were engaged in the warof Sicily as well as the Sicilians themselves who took uparms one against another, and the Athenians together withtheir allies. Yet, the most memorable actions alone, eitherof the allies thus aided by the Athenians, or of the commonenemy against the Athenians, shall I now relate.—Charoea-das the Athenian commander having lost his life in the Sy-racusan war, Laches, who had now the sole command of thefleet, injunction with the allies, appeared before Myla ofthe Messenians. The garrison of Mylae consisted of twocompanies of Messenians ; and these had formed an am­buscade to cut off the enemy when landed. But the Athe­nians and allies drive them from the place of ambush withgreat slaughter. Then they proceeded to assault the works,which necessitated the defendants to give up their citadelby capitulation, and even to attend them against Messene.But after this, the Athenians and allies were no sooner ap­proached, than the Messenians also compounded, givinghostages and all other securities required for their future be­haviour. The same summer, the Athenians with thirty sail ofships commanded by Demosthenesf the son of Alcisthenes- • Prytaneum. t This Demosthenes will make a considerable figure in the course ofthis war. The most celebrated orator of the same name hath ranked himamongst the greatest of his countrymen, with Aristides, Pericles, and Ni-cias. He stiles him also an orator; and Thucydides will give us hereaf­ter a specimen of his manner of haranguing. His name-tah indeed hathVol. I. 3 C