OCR Output 146 [A. U. C. 773. THE. ANNALS heard before himself. The request was perfectlyagreeable to the accused party, who was not to learnthat the senate and the people were prejudiced againsthim. "Tiberius, ho knew, was firm enough to resistpopular clamour ; and in conjunction with Livia, hadacted an underhand part in the business. Besidesthis, the truth, he thought, would be better investi­gated before a single judge, than in a mixed assembly,where intrigue and party violence too often prevailed.Tiberius, however, saw the importance of the cause,and felt the imputations thrown out against himself.To avoid a situation so nice and difficult, he consentedto hear, in the presence of a few select friends, theheads of the charge, with the answers of the defend­ant; and then referred the whole to the considerationof the senate. XI. During these transactions, Drusus returnedfrom Illyricum. For the captivity of Maroboduus,and the prosperous events of the preceding summeran ovation had been decreed by the senate; but hechose to postpone that honour, and entered the cityas a private man. Piso moved that Titus Arruntius, .T. Vinicius, Asinius Gallus, ^serninus Marcellus,and Sextus Pompeius, might be assigned as advocatesto defend his cause. Under different pretexts theyall excused themselves; and in their room, MarcusLepidus, Lucius Piso, and Livineius Regulus, wereappointed. The whole city was big with expectation.It remained to be seen how far the friends of Ger-manicus would act with firmness; what resourcesPiso had left, and whether Tiberius would speak hismind, or continue as usual, dark and impenetrable.No juncture had ever occurred in which the peoplewere so warmly interested; none, when in privatediscourse men made such bitter reflections, and none,when suspicion harboured such gloomy apprehen­sions. XII. At the next meeting of the senate, Tiberius,in a premeditated speech, explained his sentiments. ]" Piso," he observed," had been the friend and chosen" lieutenant of Augustus; and was lately named with" the approbation of the senate, to assist Germanicui