OCR Output 468 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLVI, were decently confined to a private house. But the spi­rit of the empress Constantina, still mindful of her fa­ther, her husband, and her sons, aspired to freedom andrevenge. At the dead of night, she escaped to the sanc­tuary of St. Sophia; but her tears, and the gold of herassociate Germanus, were insufficient to provoke an in­surrection. Her life was forfeited to revenge, and evento justice: but the patriarch obtained and pledged anoath for her safety; a monastery was allotted for herprison, and the widow of Maurice accepted and abusedthe lenity of his assassin. The discovery or the suspi­cion of a second conspiracy, dissolved the engagementsand rekindled the fury of Phocas. A matron who com­manded the respect and pity of mankind, the daughter,wife, and mother of emperors, was tortured like thevilest malefactor, to force a confession of her designs andand iyran- associates; and the empress Constantina with her threeinnocent daughters, was beheaded at Chalcedon, on thesame ground which had been stained with the blood ofher husband and five sons. After such an example, itwould be superfluous to enumerate the names and suf­ferings of meaner victims. Their condemnation wasseldom preceded by the forms of trial, and their punish­ment was embittered by the refinements of cruelty : theireyes were pierced, their tongues were torn from the root,the hands and feet were amputated; some expired un­der the lash, others in the flames, others again weretransfixed with arrows; and a simple speedy death wasmercy which they could rarely obtain. The hippodrome,the sacred asylum of the pleasures and the liberty ofthe Romans, was polluted with heads and limbs and man­gled bodies; and the companions of Phocas were themost sensible, that neither his favour, nor their services,could protect them from tyrant, the worthy rival of theCaligulas and Domitians of the first age of the empire.' e Some of the cruelties of Phocas are marked by Tueoph;lact, lib. 8. c. 13—15.George of Pisidia, the poet of Ilcraclius, styles him (Bell. Avaricum, p. i6. Roma,