OCR Output KOLA. 443 NOLA. •iritarinf Opus (Pol. iL 17); thnneh it is mostpkatk that the city already existed from an earlier'Tba toteneat of Solinus that it was founded„ tbj Tyrvm is clearly erroneous: perhaps, astag,nliil be Xiebuhr, we should read "a Tyrrhenis"fc-iTrria." (Solin. 2. § 16; Niebnhr, vol. i. p.Han 133) \Ve hare no account of the manner■ afccs Xoa afterward* passed into the hands ofat fatcita; bat there can be little doubt that itftvaay Minted in this respect the fate of Capua^Bru];snd it is certain that it was, at the timeHwlmt wan of the Romans in this part of Italy,HaspHBU city, occupied by an Oscan people, in|ea» slate* with the Samnites. (Liv. viii. 23.)aatiuu ipo intimates clearly that the inhabitantsa si this period, like the Neapolitans, a Greekfaaarh he tells us that tliey were much at-to the Greeks and their institutions. (Dion vs.1 p. 2315. B.) ■T probably infer from the above statements,m originally an Ausonian or Oscan town,oratly occupied by the Ktruscans, inIt appears to have remained, like Capua,Was eoaqaered by the Samnites, who subse-the name of Campanians, aboutThe evidence in favour of its having'a Greek colony is very slight, and isigbed by the contrary testimony ofell as by the silence of all other GreekThe circumstance that its coins (none ofI of early date) have uniformly Greek in-(as in the one figured below), may bemnted for by that attachment to theis mentioned by Dionysiua as charac-iiaar.it■ iit*. (Dionys. L c)aataai of Nola in history occurs in: before the beginning of the SecondTar, when the Greek cities of Palaepolissa having rashly provoked the hostility ofNolans sent to their assistance a body ofpa, at the same time that the Samnitesan auxiliary force of twice that amount.2J-) Bat their efforts were frustrated byif the Palaepolitans; and the Nolans■a the city on finding it betrayed into thea» banana, (/ft. 25, 26.) Nolwithstand-pawwniion thus given, it was long beforeat leisure to avenge themselves onit was not till B.C. 313 that they laidBacjty, which fell into their hands after butahaaBca. (Id. is. 28.) It appears certainannuel fr.Kii this period virtu.diy tobjeetfeaga enjoying, it would seem, the privi-of an allied city (Liv. xxiii. 44;aJraaaaamas, p. 127); but we do not meeteasaijuuit notice of it in history till theranie War, when it was distinguished for itsfeaaBaaBmn cause, and for its successfult» the arms of Hannibal. That general,bteawlf master of Capua in b. 0. 216,tataee Kola in like manner by the co-af a parry within the walls. Bnt thoughpasptt ia the city were ready to invite theeBaan1, the senate and nobles wereof Borne, and sent in all bastewho threw himself into theforce. Hannibal in consc-an before the walls; but shortlyNurrria, he renewed the attemptsad continued to threaten the city formH Marccllua, by a auddeu sally, in- dieted upon him considerable loss, and led him toabandon the enterprise (Liv. xxiii. 14—17; Plot.Marc. 10, 11; Eutrop. iii. 12; Flor. ii. 6. §29.)The advantage thus obtained, though inconsiderablein itself, was of importance in restoring the spirits ofthe Romans, which had been almost crushed by re­peated defeats, and was in consequence magnifiedinto a great victory. (Liv. /. c; Sil. Ital. xii. 270—280.) The next year (b. c. 215) Hannibal againattempted to make himself master of Nola, to whichhe was encouraged by fresh overtures from the de­mocratic party within the city; but he was againanticipated by the vigilance of Marcellus, and, havingencamped in the neighbourhood of the town, with aview to a more regular siege, was attacked and de­feated by the Roman general (Liv. xxiii. 39, 42—46; Plut. Marc. 12.) A third attempt, in the fol­lowing year, was not more successful; and by thesesuccessive defences the city earned the praise be­stowed on it by Silius Italicus, who calls it " Poenonon pervia Nola." (Sil. Ital, viii. 534.) Nola again bears a conspicuous part in the SocialWar. At the outbreak of that contest (n. c. 90) itwas protected, as a place of importance from itsproximity to the Samnite frontier, by a Roman gar­rison of 2000 men, under the command of the praetorL. Postumins, but was betrayed into the hands ofthe Samnite leader C. Papius, and became fromthenceforth one of the chief strongholds of the Sam­nites and their allies in this part of Italy. (Liv.Epit. lxxiii.; Appian, B. C. i. 42.) Thus we find itin the following year (b. c. 89) affording shelter tothe shattered remains of the army of L. Cluentius,after its defeat by Sulla (Appian, I. c. 50): and evenafier the greater part of the allied nations had madepeace with Rome, Nola still held out; and a Romanarmy was still occupied in the siege of the city, whenthe civil war first broke out between Marius andSulla. (Veil. Pat. ii. 17,18; Diod. xxxvii. Exc. Phot,p. 540.) The new turn thus given to affairs for awhile retarded its fall; the Samnites who were de­fending Nola joined the party of Marius and Cinna;and it was not till after the final triumph of Sulla,and the total destruction of the Samnite power, thatthe dictator was able to make himself master of thorefractory city. (Liv. Epit. lxxxix.) We cannotdoubt that it was severely punished: we learn thatits fertile territory was divided by Sulla among hisvictorious soldiers (Lib. Colon, p. 236), and the oldinhabitants probably altogether expelled. It is re­markable that it is termed a Colonia before the out­break of this war (Liv. Epit. lxxiii.); but this isprobably a mistake. No other author mentions it assuch, and its existence as a municipium, retaining itsown institutions and the use of the Oscan language,is distinctly attested at a period long subsequent tothe Second Punic War, by a remarkable inscriptionstill extant. (Mommsen, Unter Ital. Dial. p. 125.) Itafterwards received a second colony under Augustus,and a third under Vespasian; hence Pliny enumeratesit among the Coloniae of Campania, and we find it ininscriptions as late as the time of Diocletian, bearingthe titles of " Colonia Felix Augusta Nolana." (Lib.Colon. I. c; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Zumpt, de Colon, pp.254, 350; Gruter, Inter, p. 473. 9, p. 1085. 14.) It was at Nola that Augustus died, on his returnfrom Beneventum, whither he had accompaniedTiberius, A. D. 14; and from thence to Bovillae hisfuneral procession was attended by the senators ofthe cities through which it passed. (Suet. Aug. 98;Dion Cass. lvi. 29,31; Tac. ^nn. i. 5; Veil Pat. ii. a.