OCR Output 218 LUSITANIA. LUSITANIA. presented en an ancient vase. (Millinper, Pemturestie Yates, pi. 52; .Miillcr, Itenkm'tUr iter alt. Kunst,t. II.) I lie ruins, which Dodwell discovered aboveLusi towards the end of the plain, and on the roadto Cynaeth'i, are probably those of the temple ofArtemis J.eake discovered some ancient foundationsat the middle fountain of the three in the morewesterly of the two plains of Sudhend, which hesupposes to bo the remains of the temple. One ofthe officers of the French Commission observed alarge cave on the western side of the Aroanianmountains, in which the inhabitants of Sudhemi worea« ustomed to take refuge during war, and whichis probably the one intended in the legend of thedaughter* of Preetus. (Dodwell, Classical Tour,vol. ii. p. 447: Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 109, vol.iii. pp. 168, 181; Boblaye, Jtecherches, £c. p. 155;Cortius, Ptlopimnesos, vol. i. p. 375, acq.) LUSITA'NIA (h AutriToyio,^ AuffiraFut<i,Strab.;AovuiToWa, Dind. Sic, Ptol., Steph. B.: Eth.hu-anavol, Lusitani), originally denoted the country ofthe Lusitani, but is commonly used in a wider sense,as the name of one of the three provinces, intowhich Hispania was divided by Augustus. (His-pania, p. 1081, Nun. 3, 4). 1. Extent and Bowularies.— Like the modemPort'ujtd, it lay on the W. side of the peninsula, ex­tending from its S\V. point (Sacrum Pr., C. S.Vincenl\ eastwards to the mouth of the Anas(Guadiana), and northwards along the W. coast;but here, as well as in the interior, the boundariesof the two countries were very different ; Lusitaniaoccupying only two-thirds of the W. coast, and Por­tugal more than three-fourths. The former had itsN. boundary at the Ruiuua (A>wro), the latUsr atthe Minius (.1/mo); and the Portuguese province,called Entre Daunt e Minho, as lying between theserivers, as well as that of Troy or Monies If. of it,were anciently the part of Gai.lakcia which be­longed to the CallaTci Bracarii. But on the E. side,inland, Lusitania had a much wider extent thanPortugal. Both rest on the same base, as their S.aide, namely the coast between C. S. Vincent andthe mouth of the Guadiana, and at first the bound­ary runs N. nearly along the same line, namely thecourse of the Guadiana, the slight difference being infavour of Portugal, which has a slip on the E. sideof the river. But, from a point on the river, a littlebelow Badajoz, and a little above its intersectionwith the Meridian of 7a W. long., the boundariesdiverge ; that of Portugal taking a general direction IN. with a slight bearing to the Iv, till it strikes the/Antra at its great bend from SW. to NW. (wherethe Aqueda joins it), and running up the river toits great bend in the opposite direction, below theEtta; while that of Lusitania continued up theAnas eastward, towards the middle of the Penin­sula, to a point considerably alsiv>> Mr.TtxMM'M(but not very certainly detiued), whence it followed Ia N. direction to the Durius, which it met at a point jbelow the river Pistoraca (also not very well de­fined). Thus, Lusitania contained, on this side, theX. part of S]<anish Exlrcmadnra, and the S. part ofIjron; and the part of the province thus lying E. ofModem Portugal, cbrrcs|ond very nearly to the ter­ritory of the Vktto.nkh. These an- the boundaries Iof the ltoniau province, as constituted under Augus-tua ; but there are considerable variations iu tlie'extent aaaigned to the country by various writer*,especially according as the word is used, in the ,wider aenac, for the uruvime, or in Uie narrower meaning, for the country of the Lusitani. In tbia6rst and narrowest sense, it included only the di—trict bctwven the Tagus and the Duriua, from lb*Atlantic on the W., to about the piwnt frontier isfPortugal on the E. Next, the supposed or ann.ilconnection of these people with their North*™neighbours, the CallaTci, "Artabri," and A storm,led to their being, at hast in part, included orderthe same name, and accordingly Strabo define* Lusi­tania as the countrv N. of the Tagus, booDdcd nathe W. & N. by the Ocean. (Strab. iiL p. \i^)But just above he says, that the greater part of to*Lusitani, meaning those X. of the Durius, had "l-tained the name of CallaTci; and elsewhere he ex­pressly states that the whole region X. of listDuiius, which was formerly called Lusitania, »■•now called CallaTca. (iii. p. 166.) On the E-,says Strabo (i c), it bordered on the Carpetani,V'ettonea, Vaccaei, and CallaTci, and other tribe* ofless note ; and he adds that these also were *on«-timea called Lusitani, thus pointing to the ex tens, aof the name towards the east. Then, again, on theS. of the Tagus, where the country seems originallyto have belonged to the Tpruktani. with an inter.mixture of Celtic tribes [Cki.tici], the long andobstinate wars earned on by the Kotnana drovemany of the Lusitanians and their allies into thedistrict, which thus came naturally to be includedunder the name of Lusitania. (Strab. iii. p. 139.)Finally, under Augustus, the boundaries were fixedas above stated. 2. Dimensions.— Agrippa, as quoted by Pliny,assigned to the province, together with Asturi* aojGallaecia, a width of 536 M. P.; and a length of540 M. P. (Plin. iv. 21. a. 85.) Strabo make* iulength 3000 stadia, and its width considerably less(iii. p. 153, as amended by Xylander: it sh.Kild beremembered that the width is reckoned, a* Straps*expressly says, along the E. side. i. e. from S.ti\in conformity with his general views mulcting tb*form of the peninsula, which are explained underHispaxia). 3. Physical Geography.—Strabo's description ofLusitania (/. c.) as lofty and rugged on the K. side,and level towards the sea, with the exceptiiaa ofminor ridges of mountains, is tolerably correct. Amote exact account of its relation to the whole for­mation of the surface of the )>eninsulais given underHisi-ASIA (§ v. No. 5. pp. 1085, 10S6), togetherwith a description of the coast and the chief iro-montories. Its surface is roughly divided by the■Miins IlK.ltslimrs (Sierra de Eslrella), which rodsin the peninsula of Lisbon, into the two great bavinsof the Tagus and the Durius; but it is also iater-sectetl by numerous offset* from the (Treat centralchains of the peninsula. Besiiles the great riverTagl's, which bisects it, there are several other*. otmore or less importance, which Mow in the wwgeneral direction, and (tow into toe sea on ton W.coast; but of these none require special r»<jr*, ex­cept the Callipus (KaAAivovi, Sadao), which funN. from the M. Cuneus in the extreme S^ and failsinto the sea. SK. of the Tagus, and the Mim*v(Mmulegn) and Vacua ( Vouga), between tli* Tagusand the Durius. * The discrepancies among the ancientrespecting the names of the rivers between thsTagus and the Miniua have been notjrvd uodrr(iali^kcia: the following conspectas, by Gr\s>-kurd, of their vai iuu* statement*, may be netfuL