OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 47 country, fifty miles round, was laid waste with fireand sword ; no compassion for sex or age; no dis­tinction of places, holy or profane ; nothing was sa­cred. In the general ruin the Temple of Tanfan,which was held by the inhabitants in the highest ve­neration, was levelled to the ground. Dreadful as theslaughter was, it did not cost a drop of Roman blood.Not so much as a wound was received. The attackwas made on the barbarians sunk in sleep, dispersedin flight, unarmed, and incapable of resistance. Anaccount of the massacre soon reached the Bructe-rians, the Tubantes, and the Usipetes. Inflamed withresentment, those nations took up arms; and postingthemselves to advantage, surrounded the woodsthrough which the Roman army was to pass. Ger-manicus, informed of their motions, marched in orderof battle. Part of the cavalry, with the light cohorts,formed the van; the first legion followed, to supportthem; the baggage moved in the centre. The leftwing was closed by the twenty-first legion, and theright by the fifth. The twentieth, with the auxiliaries,) brought up the rear. The Germans, in close ambush,waited till the army stretched into the woods. Afterskirmishing with the advanced party, and both theflanks, they fell with their whole strength upon therear. The light cohorts, unable to sustain the shockof a close embodied enemy, were thrown into disor­der ; when Germanicus, riding at full speed to thetwentieth legion, cried aloud, " The time is come" when you may efface, by one bravo exploit, the" guilt of the late sedition ; charge with courage, and* you gain immortal honour." Roused by this ani­mating strain, the legion rushed to the attack, and atthe first onset broke the ranks of the enemy. Thebarbarians fled to the open plain: the Romans pur­sued them with dreadful slaughter. Meanwhile thevan of the army passed the limits of the forest, andbegan to throw up intrenchments. From that timethe march was unmolested. The soldiers, flushedwith success, and in the glory of this expedition losingall memory of former guilt, were sent into winterquarters.