OCR Output &v. 336.] 413 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. his son John took that dignity. On whoseaccount il was also that Bagoses, the generalof *another of Artaxerxes's army, pollutedthe temple, and imposed tributes on the Jews;that out of the public stock, before they of­fered the daily sacrifices, they should pay forevery lamb filly shekels. Now Jesus was thebrother of John, and was a friend of Bagoses:who had promised to procure him the high-priesthood. In consequence of whose sup­port Jesus quarrelled with John in the tem­ple; and so provoked his brother, that in hisanger his brother slew him. Now it was ahorrible thing for John, when he was high-priest, to perpetrate so great a crime; and somuch the more horrible, that there never wasso cruel and impious a thing done, either bythe Greeks or Barbarians. However, Goddid not neglect its punishment. But thepeople were, on that very account, enslaved:and the temple was polluted by the Persians.Now when Bagoses, the general of Artax-erxes's army, knew that John, the high-priestof the Jews, had slain his own brother Jesusin the temple: he came upon the Jews imme­diately; and began in anger to say to them,"Have you had the impudence to perpetratea murder in your temple?" And as he wasaiming to go into the temple, they forbadehim so to do. But he said, "Am not I purerthan he that was slain in the temple?" Andwhen he had said those words, he went intothe temple. Accordingly Bagoses made useof this pretence; and punished the Jewsseven years for the murder of Jesus. Now when John was departed this life, hisson Jaddua succeeded in the high-priesthood.He had a brother, whose name was Manasseh.Now there was one tSanballat, who was sentby Darius, the last king of Persia, into Sa­maria. He was a Cuthean by birth; of whichstock were the Samaritans also. This manknew that the city of Jerusalem was a famouscity; and that their kings had given a greatdeal of trouble to the Assyrians, and the peo­ple of Coelesyria. So that he willingly gavehis daughter, whose name was Nicaso, inmarriage to Manasseh; as thinking this alli­ance by marriage would be a pledge andsecurity, that the nation of the Jews shouldcontinue their good will to him. CHAP. Vffl. OF SANBATXAT, AND MANASSEH, AND OF THE TEMPLE WHICHTHEY BUILT IN MOUNT GERIZZIM J ALSO OF THE CON­QUESTS OF ALEXANDER; HIS ENTRY INTO THE CITY OFJERUSALEM; AND THE BENEFITS HE BESTOWED ON THEJEWS. ABOUT this {time Philip, king of Mace-don, was treacherously assaulted andslain at iEgeae, by Pausanias, the son of Ce­rastes; who was derived from the family ofthe Orestae. His son Alexander succeededin the kingdom; and passing over the Hel­lespont, overcame the generals of Darius'sarmy in a battle fought at Granicum. Sohe marched over Lydia, and subdued Ionia,and over-ran Caria, and fell upon the placesof Pamphylia. worship: nor do we know that there ever was so im­perfect a copy of it in the world, till after the days ofBarchocah, in the second century. * Concerning this other Artaxerxes, called Mnemon,and the Persian affliction and captivity of the Jews underhim, occasioned by the murder of the high-priest's bro­ther in the holy house, see Authent. Rec. at large, page49, 50, 116—161. And if any one wonder why Josephuswholly omits the rest of the kings of Persia, after Ar­taxerxes Mnemon; till he came to their last king, Darius,who was conquered by Alexander the Great; I shallgive them Vossius's and Dr. Hudson's answer, though inmy own words: viz. that Josephus did not do ill in omit­ting those kings of Persia with whom the Jews had noconcern: because he was giving the history of the Jews,and not of the Persians. Which is a sufficient reasonalso, why he entirely omits the history and the book ofJob; as not particularly relating to that nation. He justlytherefore returns to the Jewish affairs, after the death ofLongimanus, without any mention of Darius II. before Ar­taxerxes Mnemon, or of Ochus, or Arogus, as the canon of Ptolemy names them, after him. Nor had he probablymentioned this other Artaxerxes, unless Bagoses, one ofthe governors and commanders under him, had occasionedthe pollution of the Jewish temple, and had greatly dis­tressed the Jews upon that pollution. But still, how verywide are those learned men from truth, who, from suchbare omissions in Josephus, collect that he was unacquaintedwith those reigns he omitted; and with the modern Jews,greatly shortened the Persian monarchy. For Josephuswas in fact so far from diminishing, that he has increasedits duration; and that no fewer than 38 or 39 years. t Many have here, very weakly, supposed that thisSanballat, under the last Darius, is by Josephus confoundedwith Sanballat the Horonite in Nehemiah xiii. 28. underXerxes or Artaxerxes Longimanus: who yet lived, byJosephus's own chronology, about 120 years before him.So palpable a mistake is hardly worth a particular confuta­tion, and only pardonable on account of the same persons'former mistake, as to the duration of this Persian monarchy,in Josephus's opinion; just now observed and confuted. } An. 336.