OCR Output j86 T H E H I S T O R Y on Valerius infifting that he would not be filenced by_ a private citizen, ordered a lictor to advance to him: Y.R. 305. Valerius, from the door of the fenate-houfe, implored. <•:. 447. the protection of the citizens; Lucius Corneliusembracing Appius, through concern for an objecctdifferent from what he pretended, put a flop to theconteft, and procured Valerius permifTion to faywhat he chofe: this producing nothing beyondwords, in favour of liberty, the decemvirs carriedtheir point; and even the confulars and elder patri­cians, from inveterate hatred to the tribunitian of­fice, which they fuppofed the commons longed for,with much more eagernefs, than for the confulargovernment, would have been rather better pleafcd,that the decemvirs themfelves fhculd, at fome futuretime, voluntarily refign their office, than that, throughmeans of the indignation of the public agair.ft them,the commons fhould rife again to confequence jhoping that if, by gentle management, the govern­ment fhould be brought back to confuls, without theturbulent interpofition of the populace, .they mighteither by the intervention of wars, or by tne mode­ration of the confuls in the exercife of their authority,bring the commons to forget their tribunes. Noobjection being made by the patricians, a levy wasproclaimed, and the young men, there beuig noappeal from the prefent government, anfwered totheir names. When the legions were filled up, thedecemvirs fettled among themfelves, who mould goout with the troops, and who command the feveralarmies. The leading men among the decemvirswere Quintus Fabius and Appius Claudius. It wasevident that the re would be a greater war at homethan abroad. The violence of Appius was thoughtbetter calculated for fupprefiing commotions in thecity, and the difpofuion of Fabius was confidered asrather inconftant in good purfuits, than ftrermous inbad; for this man, hitherto highly diftinguifhcd bothin civil and military conduct, was fo entirely changed by