OCR Output 220 /TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. provoke this rash young nobleman. Many things thathad been said and done without consideration, by theyoung nobility, were all charged'upon Caeso, who wasnow become odious. Notwithstanding of which, he per­sisted in his opposition to the law. , A Virginius was every now and then trumpeting tothe people, to this effect: " Are you not sensible, fellotft"citizens, that you cannot retain Caeso, and carry the"law you are so much set upon? But why do I rnen-"tion the law? He is an enemy to your liberty, and•" in pride, exceeds all the Tarquins put together. Only"wait till he is made consul or dictator. You see w'rth"what force and violence he lords it now, while only a"private citizen." Many approved of the tribune'sspeech, coirfpiaining, that they had been.roughly hand-kd by him,. and urged the tribune, to strain every nerveto bring him to condign punishment. CHAP. XII. Caio deprecates the wrath of the people. JL HE day for the trial came, and the people in gene­ral seemed to think, that their liberty depended on thecondemnation of Caeso. Urged, therefore, by necessity,with much inward indignation, he went about solicitingtheir favour one by one; his relations and friends, theprincipal men of the-city, attending him. T. Quinc-tius, who had been thrice consul, after recounting thehonours which he himself, and others of his family hadacquir-ed by their gallantry, affirmed, " That neitherthe Quinctian name, nor even the whole Roman state,had ever produced a more excellent genius, or a sol­dier of more consummate bravery L—that he hadmarked him a* the first soldier in the army, as he hadoften-seen him" signalize himself, when engaged withthe enemy." Sp. Furius bore testimony, "Thatwhen he was in the most dangerous situation, Quinctiussent Caeso to his relief; and that his valour, upon thatcritical occasion, was peculiarly essential to the pros­perity of the state." Lucretius, one of the last year'sconsuls, covered with fresh laurels, divided his "glorywith Caeso.; enumerating his combats, and glorious.