OCR Output DISCOURSE II. could look calmly on the storm that was raging, or the battlethat was fighting below, could note every incident, distinguishevery turn, and with a philosophical tranquillity enjoy it all.In short, he now was, and continued all the rest of the Pelo-ponnesian War, a citizen of the world at large, as much asany man ever actually was. But, before this separation from the community, whilstyet he continued at Athens, where liberty opened the field*to all passionate chaces after power, where consequentlycompetitions were ever fermenting, and party was alwaysalive and active,—can we find him associated with any par­ticular set of men ? can we find him dabbling in political in­trigue ? a leader of, or led by any party ? or, can we as­suredly find out his principles ? or even guess at his realthoughts about the form of government under which he hadlived ? His biographers indeed, though ever parading hiscandour and impartiality, are often tracing out signs andmarks of party-zeal and personal prejudices from the verycharacters in his history. Marcellinus says, " he described" Cleon as a madman because he hated him ;" forgetful, whatCleon really was, and of the concurrent testimonies to thetruth of the character. The anonymous writer says, " he op-" posed Pericles at Athens, got the better of him, and be-" came the first man in the republic." A ridiculous story !void of all manner of support. According to this writer'sway of arguing in other places, who says, " he cajoled the" Lacedaemonians, and inveighed against the tyrannic all-" grasping temper of the Athenians, in his history, because" he had no opportunity to rail at them in any other shape,"—he should have left a far different. character of Periclesbehind him, than he hath actually left. But these are strangecompilers of patch-work, and deserve no regard. Fromwhat the former hath said about him, a reader might betempted to judge him of the oligarchical: from what the lat­ter hath said of him, of the democratical principle. Mr.Hobbes imagines he hath dived to the bottom of his real