OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE EOMAN EMPIRE. eight thousandof a smaller size;" and the royal stables werefilled with six thousand mules and horses, among whomthe names of Shebdiz and Barid are renowned for theirSpeed or beauty. Six thousand guards successively mount­ed before the palace-gate; the service of the interiorapartments was performed by twelve thousand slaves,and in the number of three thousand virgins, the fairestof Asia, some happy concubine might console her mas­ter for the age or the indifference of Sira. The varioustreasures of gold, silver, gems, silk, and aromatics, weredeposited in a hundred subterraneous vaults; and thechamber Badaverd denoted the accidental gift of thewinds which had wafted the spoils of Heraclius into one ofthe Syrian harbours of his rival. The voice of flattery, andperhaps of fiction, is not ashamed to compute the thirtythousand rich hangings that adorned the walls, the fortythousand columns of silver, or more probably of marble,and plated wood, that supported the roof; and a thou­sand globes of gold suspended in the dome, to imitate themotions of the planets and the constellations of the zo­diac." While the Persian monarch contemplated thewonders of his art and power, he received an epistle froman obscure citizen of Mecca, inviting him to acknow­ledge Mahomet as the apostle of God. He rejected theinvitation, and tore the epistle. "It is thus (exclaimedthe Arabian prophet) that God will tear the kingdom,and reject the supplications, of Chosroes."y Placed on • The difference between the two races consists in one or two humps; the drome­dary has only one; the size of the proper camel is larger; the oonntry he comesfrom, Turkestan or Bactriana; the dromedary is confined to Arahia and Africa.Buffon, Hist. Naturelle, tom. 11. p. 211, &c. Aristot. Hist. Animal, tom. 1. lib. 2.c. 1. tom. 2. p. 185. x Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 268. D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p.997. The Greeks describe the decay, the Persians the splendour, of Dastagerd ybut the former speak from the modest wituess of the eye, the latter from the vaguereport of the ear. y The historians of Mahomet, Abulfeda, (in Vit. Mohammed, p. 92, 93.) and Gag-nier, (Vie de Mahomet, tom. 2. p. 247.) date this emhassy in the seventh year of theHegira, which commences A. D. 628, May 11. Their chronology is erroneous, sinoeChosroes died in the month of February of the same year. (Pagi, Critica, tom. 2.p.779.) The count de Boulaiuvilliers (Vie de Mahumed, p. 327, 328.) places thisemhassy about A. D. 615, soon after the conquest of Palestine. Yet Mahomet wouldscarcely hare ventured so soon on so bold a step.