OCR Output 36 ILLYRICUM. ILLYRICUM. Inferior, Mnesia Superior, Moesia Inferior, Dacia, andThrace. This division continued till the time ofConstantino, who severed from it Lower Moesia andThrace, but added to it Macedonia, Thcssaly, Achaia,Old and New Kpirus, Praevalitana, and Crete. Atthis periud it was one of the four great divisions ofthe Roman empire under a "Praefectus Pruetorio,"and it is in this signification that it is used by thelater writers, such as Sextus Rufus, the "AuctorNotitiae Dignitatum Imperii," Zosiinus, Jornandes,and others. At the final division of the Roman em­pire, the so-called " Illyricum Orientale," containingthe provinces of Macedonia, Thcssaly, Epirns, Hellas,New £pirus,Crete,and Praevalitana,was incorporatedwith the Lower Empire; while "Illyricum Occi-dentalc" was united with Rome, and embraced Nc-ricum, Pannonia, Dalmatia, Savia, and ValeriaRipensis. A. h.i.YKis Barbara or Rohana, was separatedfrom Iatria by the small river Areia {Area), andbounded S. and E. by the Drilo, and on the N. bythe Sivun: consequently it is represented now bypart of Crotitut, all Dalmatia, the Herzegovina,ilonlt-Segro, nearly all Bomia, and part at Albania, lllyris It jmana was divided into three districts, thenorthern of which was Iai'IMA, extending S. as faras the Tedanius (Zrrmagna); the strip of land ex­tending from the Arsia to the Titius {La Kerka)was called I.iuuknia, or the whole of the north ofwliat was once Venetian Dalmatia; the territory ofthe Dalmatak was at first comprehended betweenthe Nam and the Tilurus or Nestus: it then ex­tended to the Titius. A list of the towns will befound under the several heads of Lu'TDIA, I.I-BLRH1A, and Dalmatia. B. Ili.vkis Grakca, which was called in latertimes Kl'lKUS Nova, extended from the river Driloto the SE., up to the Ceraunian mountains, whichseparated it from Kpirus Proper. On the N. it wasbounded by the Roman Illyricum and Mount Scor-dus, on the W. by the Ionian sea, on the S. by Kpirus,and on the E. by Macedonia; comprehending, there­fore, nearly the whole of modern Albania. Next tothe frontier of Chaonia is the small town of Amaji-tia, and the people of the Amastiass and Bi'L-i.iohkm. They are followed by the Tallaxtii,who occupied the country N. of the Aol'S — thegreat river of S. Macedonia, which rises in MountIjuinon, and discharges itself into the Adriatic — astar as Epidamnus. The chief towns of this countrywere Apoixonla, and Ki-idamml's or Dtkbiia-cmi'X. In the interior, near the Macedonian fron­tier, there is a considerable Lake, Lacus Ltciimtis,from which the Drilo issues. Ever since the middleagea there has existed in this part the town ofAchrida, which has been supposed to be the ancientLiciixiDua, and was the capital of the Bulgarianempire, when it extended from the Euxine as far asthe interior of Aetolia, and comprised S. Illyricum,Kpirus, Acamania, Aetolia, and a part of Tbesaaly.During the Roman period the Dassaketak dweltthere; the neighbouring country was occupied bythe Autariatae, who are said to have been drivenfrom their country in the time of Caasandtx, whenthey removed as fugitives with their women andchildren luto Macedonia. The Akhiaki and Pak-Tiiuri dwelt N. of the Autariatae, though nut atthe same time, but only during the Roman period.Scoiiua {Scutari), in later times the capital ofPraevalitana, was unknown during the nourishingperiod of Grecian history, and more properly belongs | to Roman Illyricum; as Lissus, which was situatedat the mouth of the Drilo, was fixed upon by theRomans as the border town of the lllyrians in theS., beyond which they were not allowed to sail withtheir privateers. Internal communication in thisIllyricum was kept up by the Via Candavla orKgnatia, the great line which connected Italy andthe East — Rome, Constantinople, and Jerusalem.A road of such importance, as Colonel Leake re­marks (A'ortA. Greece, vol. iii. p. 311). and onI which the distance had been marked with mile­stones soon after the Roman conquest of Macedonia,we may believe to have been kept in the best orderas long as Rome was the centre of a vigorous au­thority; but it probably shared the fate of manyother great establishments in the decline of theempire, and especially when it became as much theconcern of the Byzantine as of the Roman govern­ment. This fact accounts for the discrepancies iuthe Itineraries; for though Lychnidus, Heracleia,and Kdessa, still continued, as on the CandavianWay described by Polybius {ap. Strab. vii. pp. 322,323), to be the three principal points between Dyr-rhachium and Thessalonica (nature, in fact, havingstrongly drawn that line in the valley of the Ge-nusus), there appears to have been a choice of routesover the ridges which contained the boundaries ofIllyricum and Macedonia. By comparing the An.toninc Itinerary, the Peutingerian Table, and theJerusalem Itinerary, the following account of stationsin Illyricum is obtained: —Dyrrliochium or Apollouia.Clodiana ... Shumln.Scampac ... Elbaaan.Trajectus Geuusi - - Shunbi river. Ad Dianam „ Candavia „ Tree Tubcrnae n Pons Servilii et Claudanum - The Drin at Struga.Patrae „ Lychnidus ... Atrvlha.Brucida ... PrtJpa.Scirtiana - - - „ Castr. - „ Nicaea • • - „ Heracleia - - „ 3. Phgtical Geography. — The Ulyrian range ofmountains, which traverses Dalmatia under the nameof Mount Prolog, and partly under other names(Mons Albius, Bebius), branches off in Camiulafrom the Julian Alps, and then, at a considerabledistance from the sea, stretches towards Venelia,approaches the sea beyond Aquileia near Trieste, andforms Istria. After passing through lstria as a loftymountain, though not reaching the snow line, andtraversing Dalmatia, which it separates from /taenia,it extends into Albania. It is a limestone range,and, like most mountains belonging to that form­ation, much broken up; hence the bold and pic­turesque coast runs out into many promontories, andis flanked by numerous islands. These islands appear to hare originated on thebreaking up of the lower grounds by tome violentaction, leaving their limestone summits shore water*From the salient position of the promontory termi­nating in Punta delta Planca, they are divided intotwo distinct groups, which the Greek geographerscalled Absyrtidks and Lini'KxlDica. Tbey trendNW. and SE., greatly lancer than broad, and formvarious fine chan els, called " canale,* and namedfrom the nearest adjacent island: these being bold,