OCR Output 26 [book I ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. rious actions." He answered, "And whatadvantage will it be to me to have such re­wards, when I have none to enjoy them afterme?" for he was hitherto childless. AndGod promised that, he should have a son,and that his posterity should be very nu­merous; insomuch that their number shouldbe like the stars. When he heard that, heoffered a sacrifice to God, as he commandedhim. The manner of the sacrifice wasthis:* He took an heifer of three years old,and a she-goat of three years old, and aram in like manner of three years old, and aturtle dove, and a pigeon; and as he was en­joined, he divided the three former,f but thebirds he did not divide. After which, beforehe built his altar, where the birds of preyflew about as desirous of blood, a divine voicecame to him declaring that their neighbourswould be grievous to his posterity, when theyshould be in Egypt, for four hundred years 4during which time they should be afflicted,but afterwards shall overcome their enemies,should conquer the Canaanites in war, andpossess themselves of their land, and of theircities. Now Abram dwelt near the oak calledOgyges: the place belongs to Canaan, notfar from the city of Hebron. But being un­easy at his wife's barrenness, he intreatedGod to grant that he might have male issue:and God required of him to be of goodcourage, and said, that he would add to allthe rest of the benefits he had bestowed uponhim, ever since he led him out of Mesopota­mia, the gift of children. Accordingly Sarai,at God's command, brought to his bed one ofher handmaidens, a woman of Egyptian de>scent, in order to obtain children by her: andwhen this handmaid was pregnant, she tri­umphed, and ventured to affront Sarai, as ifthe dominion were to come to a son to beborn of her. But when Abram resigned herinto the hands of Sarai, to punish her, shecontrived to flee away, as not able to bearthe instances of Sarai's severity to her: andshe intreated God to have compassion onher. Now a divine angel met her as she wasgoing forward in the wilderness, and bid herreturn to her master and mistress: for if shewould submit to that wise advice, she shouldlive better hereafter: for that the reason of * It is worthy of remark, that God required no othersacrifices under the law of Moses, than what were takenfrom these five kinds of animals which he here requiredof Abram. Nor did the Jews feed upon any other do­mestic animals than the three here named, as Reland ob­serves on Antiq. iv. 4. t It was a customary thing to cut the victim, which wasto be offered as a sacrifice upon the occasion, into twoparts, and so placing each half upon two different altars,to cause those who contracted the covenant to pass be­tween both. This rite was practised both by believersand heathens at their solemn leagues: at first, doubtless,with a view to the great sacrifice, who was to purge oursins in his own blood: and the offering of these sacrifices,and passing between the parts of the divided victim, wassymbolically staking their hopes of purification and salva­tion on their performance of the conditions on which itwas offered. This remarkable practice may be clearlytraced in the Greek and Latin writers. Homer has the fol­lowing expression: Opjpa ifica «f*ov«ff. II. ii. 124. Hav­ing cut faithful oaths. Eustathius explains the passage bysaying, they were oaths relating to important matters, andwere made by the division of the victim. See also Virgil,JEn. viii. ver. 640. The editor to the Fragments, Sup­plementary to Calmet, No. 129. is of opinion that what isyet practised of this ceremony may elucidate that passagein Isaiah xxviii. 15. We have made a covenant with death,and with hell are we at agreement: when the overflowingscourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us, for wehave made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hidourselves. That is, we have cut off a covenant sacrifice, apurification offering with death, and With the grave we have settled, so that the scourge shall not injure us. May notsuch a custom have been the origin of (he following super­stition related by Pitts: "If they (the Algerine Corsairs)at any time happen to be in a very great strait or distress, asbeing chased, or in a storm, they will gather money, lightup candles in remembrance of some dead marrabot (saint)or other, calling upon him with heavy sighs and groans. Ifthey find no succour from their before-mentioned rites andsuperstitions, but that the danger rather increases, thenthey go to sacrificing a sheep, (or two or three upon occa­sion as they think needful) which is done after this man­ner: having cut off the head with a knife, they immedi­ately take out the entrails, and throw them and the headoverboard; and then, with all the speed they can (withoutskinning) they cut the body into two parts by the middle,and throw one part over the right side of the ship, and theother over the left, into the sea, as a kind of propitiation.Thus those blind infidels apply themselves to imaginaryintercessors, instead of the living and true God." Travels,p. 18. In the case here referred to, the ship passes be­tween the parts thus thrown on each side of it. This be­haviour of the Algerines may be taken as a pretty accuratecounterpart to that of making a covenant with death, andwith imminent danger of destruction, by appeasing the an­gry gods. Festivities always accompanied the ceremoniesattending oaths. Isaac and Abimelech feasted at makingtheir covenant, Gen. xxvi. 30. and xxxi. 54. This prac­tice was also usual among the heathen nations. OrientalCustoms, Vol. I. 294. B. J As to this affliction of Abraham's posterity for fourhundred years, see II. 9