OCR Output ®F THE ROMAN EMPIRE. is? church: but they hesitate whether that worship be relative or direct; whether thegodhead, and the figure of Christ, be entitled to the same mode of adoration. Ofthis second Nicene council, the acts are still extant; a curious monument of super­stition and ignorance, of falsehood and folly. I shall only notice the judgment of thebishops, on the comparative merit of image-worship and morality. A monk hadconcluded a truce with the demon of fornication, on condition of interrupting hisdaily prayes to a picture that hung in his cell. His scruples prompted him to con­sult the abbot: " Rather than abstain from adoring Christ and his mother in theirholy images, it would be better," replied the casuist, "to enter every brothel, andvisit every prostitute, in the city."(l) For the honour of orthodoxy, at least the orthodoxy of the Roman church, it issomewhat unfortunate, that the two princes who convened the two councils ofNice, are both stained with the blood of their sons. The second of these assemblieswas approved and rigorously executed by the despotism of Irene; and she refusedher adversaries the toleration which at first she had granted to her friends. Duringthe five succeeding reigns, a period of thirty-eight years, the contest was main­tained, with unabated rage and various success, between the worshippers and thebreakers of the images; but I am not inclined to pursue with minute diligence therepetition of the same events. Nicephorus allowed a general liberty of speech andpractice; and the only virtue of his reign is accused by the monks as the cause ofhis temporal and eternal perdition. Superstition and weakness formed the cha­racter of Michael I. but the saints and images were incapable of supporting their-votary on the throne. In the purple, Leo V. asserted the name and religion of anArmenian; and the idols, with their seditious adherents, were condemned to a se­cond exile. Their applause would have sanctified the murder of aii impious tyrant;but his assassin and successor, the second Michael, was tainted from his birth withthe Phrygian heresies: he attempted to mediate between the contending parties;and the intractable spirit of the catholics insensibly cast him into the oppositescale. His moderation was guarded by timidity; but his son Theophilus, alikeignorant of fear and pity, was the last and most cruel of the Iconoclasts. The en-thusiam of the times ran strongly against them; and the emperors who stemmedthe torrent, were exasperated and punished by the public hatred. After the deathof Theophilus, the final victory of the images was achieved by a second female,his widow Theodora, whom he left the guardian of the empire. Her measureswere bold and decisive. The fiction of a tardy repentance absolved the fame andthe soul of her deceased husband: the sentence of the Iconoclast patriarch wascommuted from the loss of his eyes to a whipping of two hundred lashes: the bi­shops trembled, the monks shouted, and the festival of orthodoxy preserves theannual memory of the triumph of the images. A single question yet remained,whether they are endowed with any proper and inherent sanctity; it was agitatedby the Greeks of the eleventh century ;(2) and as this opinion has the strongest re­commendation of absurdity, I am surprised that it was not more explicitly decidedin the affirmative. In the west, pope Hadrian I. accepted and announced the de­crees of the Nicene assembly, which is now revered by the catholics as the se­venth in rank of the general councils. Rome and Italy were docile to the voice efitheir father; but the greatest part of the Latin Christians were far behind in the raceof superstition. The churches of France, Germany, England, and Spain, steereda middle course between the adoration and the destruction of images, which theyadmitted into their temples, not as objects of worship, but as lively and useful me­morials of faith and history. An angry book of controversy was composed andpublished under the name of Charlemagne;(3) under his authority a synod of threehundred bishops was assembled at Frankfort;(4) they blamed the fury of the Ico- (1) Eu/ts)! BSJ Si o-ot /oj jum\*7TS tv ei» -nj ^3?j( txut>j rro^iif tsv Etc 0 fai BinKSf,^ u wx cepvtjTi) to rraatrxvvetv rov x-jpfov mumx*- 3fiow InToutf Xpimav /htxtk ceurou ^tp-ao; sv ii*oi/<, Theae visits could not be innocent, since the AxiftwosrBpv.tje? (the demon of fornication) arnhiftit <J. wjtov ... iv ftix aw mc fzre-u'TO etumn o-^oSpx, &c. Actio iv. p. D01.Actio v. p. 1031. (2) See an account of this controversy in the Alexius of Anna Comnena (lib. v. p. 129.) and Moshcim. In-stitut. (Hist. Eccles. p. 3f1,372.) (3) TheLibri Carolini, (Spanheim, p. 443—529.) composed in the palace or winter quarters of Charlemagne,at "Worms, A. D. 790, and sent by Engebert to pope Hadrian I., who answered them nya grandis et verbosaepistola. (Concil.tom. viii.p. 1553.) The Carolines propose one hundred and twenty objections against theNicene synod, and such words as these are the flowers oftheir rhetoric—dementiam priscae Gentilitatis obsole-tum errorem argumenta insauissima et absurdissirna .... derisione dignas nssnias, &c &c (4) The assemblies of Charlemagne were political as well as ecclesiastical; and the three hundred members(Nat. Alexander, sec. viii. p. 53.) who sat ana voted at Frankfort, mast include net only the bWrops, but th">abbots*, ami even the principal laymen-.