OCR Output 450 ROMAN EMPIRE. those who had fallen in the siege, or retired to Gallicia,was confiscated as the reward of the faithful. In themidway between Merida and Toledo, the lieutenant ofMusa saluted the vicegerent of the caliph, and con­ducted him to the palace of the Gothic kings. Theirfirst interview was cold and formal: a rigid accountwas exacted of the treasures of Spain; the character ofTarik was exposed to suspicion and obloquy; and thehero was imprisoned,reviled, and ignominiouslyscourgedby the hand, or the command, of Musa. Yet so strictwas the discipline, so pure the zeal, or so tame the spirit,of the primitive Moslems, that after this public indignity,Tarik could serve and be trusted in the reduction of theTarragonese province. A mosch was erected at Sara-gossa, by the liberality of the Koreish: the port of Bar­celona was opened to the vessels of Syria; and the Goths'were pursued beyond thePyrennean mountains into theirGallic province of Septimania or Languedoc.* In thechurch of St. Mary at Carcassone, Musa found, but itis improbable that he left, seven equestrian statues ofmassy silver; and from his term or column of Narbonne,he returned on his footsteps to the Gallician and Lusi-tanian shores of the ocean. During the absence of thefather, his son Abdelaziz chastised the insurgents of Se­ville, and reduced, from Malaga to Valentia, the sea-coast of the Mediterranean: his original treaty with thediscreet and valiant Theodemir," will represent the man­ners and policy of the times. " The conditions of peaceagreed and sworn between Abdelaziz, the son of Musa, the * Both the interpreters of Novairi.de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 549.)and Cardonne, (Hist . de 1'Afriqne et de 1'Espagne, torn. l.p. 93, 94.104,105.) leadMusa into the Narbonnese Gaul. But I find no mention of this enterprise eitherin Roderic of Toledo, or the MSS. of the Eicurial, and the invasion of the Sara­cens is postponed by a French chronicle till the ninth year after the conquest ofSpain, A. D. T3l. (Fagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 177.193. Historians of France, torn.3.) I much question whether Musa ever crossed the Pyrennees. • Four hundred years afterTheodemir, his territories of Murcia and Carthagenaretain in the Nubian geographer Edrisi(p. 154.161.) the name of Tadmir. (D'An-ville, Etats de 1'Europe, p. 1o6. Pagi, torn. 3. p. 174.) In the present decay ofSpanish agriculture, Mr. Swinburne (Travels into Spain, p. 119.) surveyed withpleasure the delicious valley from Murcia to Orihuela, four leagues and a half ofthe finest corn, pulse, lucern, oranges, &c. •