OCR Output Chap. £ ." ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 109 BOOK XIX.Containing the interval of three years and a half. [From the departure of the JEWS out of Babylon, to FADUS tbtRoman Procurator.'} CHAP. I. How Caius * was slain ty Chereas. $ 1. "VTOW this Caiusf did not demonstrate his madness in of-fering injuries only to the Jews at Jerusalem, or tothose that dwelt in the neighbourhood, but suffered it to extenditself through all the earth and sea, so far as was in subjection tothe Romans, and filled it with ten thousand mischiefs; so manyindeed in number as no former history relates. But Rome it­self felt the most dismal effects of what he did, while he deemedthat not to be anyway more honourable than the rest of the ci­ties ; but he pulled and hauled its other citizens, but especiallythe senate, and particularly the nobility, and such as had beendignified by illustrious ancestors ; he also had ten thousand de­vices against such of the equestrian order, as it was styled, whowere esteemed by the citizens equal in dignity and wealth withthe senators, because out of themthesenatorswere themselves cho­sen ; these he treated after an ignominious manner, and removedthem out of his way, while they were at once slain, and theirwealth plundered; because he slew men generally in orderto seizeon their riches. He also asserted his own divinity, and insisted ongreater honours to be paid him by his subjects, than are due tomankind. He also frequented that temple of Jupiter which theystyle the Capitol, which is with them the most holy of all theirtemples, and had boldness enough to call himself the brother ofJupiter. And other pranks he did like a madman ; as when helaid a bridge from the city Dicearchia, which belongs to Cam­pania, to Misenum, another city upon the sea-side, from one pro­montory « In this and the three next chapters, we have, I think, a large and more dis.tinct account of the slaughter of Gains, and the succession of Claudius, than wehave of any such ancient. facts whatsoever elsewhere. Some of the occasions ofwhich probably were, Josephus's bitter hatred against tyranny, and the pleasurehe took in giving the history of the slaughter of such a barbarous tyrant as wasthis Caius Caligula, as also the deliverance his own nation had by that slaugh­ter, of which he speaks sect. 2. together with the great intimacy he had withAgrippa junior, whose father was deeply concerned in the advancement of Clau.dius, upon the death of Caius; from which Agrippa junior, Josephus might befully informed of his history. t Called Caligula by the Romans'