OCR Output 318 LUCILIUS BASSUS. [B. VII. that he might exceed its natural strength and security, whichyet itself rendered it hard to be taken by those fortifica­tions which were made by the hands of men. Moreover, heput a large quantity of darts and other machines of war intoit, and contrived to get every thing thither that might anyway contribute to its inhabitants' security under the longestsiege possible. 3. Now within this place there grew a sort of rue,1 thatdeserves our wonder on account of its largeness; for it is noway inferior to any fig-tree whatsoever, cither in height or inthickness ; and the report is, that it had lasted over since thetimes of Herod, and would probably have lasted much longer,had it not been cut down by those Jews who took possessionof the place afterward. But still in that valley which en­compasses the city on the north side, there is a certain placecalled Baaras, which produces a root2 of the same namewith itself: its color is like to that of flame, and towards theevening it sends out a certain ray like lightning; it is noteasily taken by such as would do it, but recedes from theirhands, nor will yield itself to be taken quietly, until citherthe urine of a woman or her menstrual blood be poured uponit: nay, even then it is certain death to those that touch it,unless any one take and hang the root itself down from hishand, and so carry it away. It may also be taken anotherway without danger, which is this.—They dig a trench quiteround about it, till the hidden part of the root be very small,they then tie a dog to it; and when the dog tries hard tofollow him that tied him, this root is easily plucked up; hutthe dog dies immediately, as if it were instead of the manthat would take the plant away; nor after this need any one 1 Spanheim observes here, that in Uraecia Major and Sicily they had rueprodigiously great and durable, like this rue at Maeherus. ■ This strange account of the place and root Baaras seems to have beentaken from the magicians, and the root to have been made use of in thodays of Josephus in that superstitious way of casting out demons, supposedby him to have been derived from king Solomon, of which we have alreadyseen he had a great opinion; Antiq. B. viii. ch. ii. sect. 5. We also mayhence learn the true notion Josephus had of demons and demoniaes, exactlylike that of the Jews and Christians in tho New Testament, and the firstfour centuries. See Antiq. B. vi. ch. viii. sect. 2; B. xi. ch. ii. sect 3.