OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97 purified from the Rugian usurper, he reviewed the national force of five thousandsoldiers, and generously undertook the restoration of the kingdom of Italy. The successors of Belisarius, eleven generals of equal rank, neglected to crushthe feeble and disunited Goths, till they were roused to action by the progress ofTotila and the reproaches of Justinian. The gates of Verona were secretly openedto Artabazus, at the head of one hundred Persians in the service of the empire.The Goths fled from the city. At the distance of sixty furlongs the Roman gene­rals halted to regulate the division of the spoil. While they disputed, the enemydiscovered the real number of the victors: the Persians were instantly over­powered, and it was by leaping from the wall that Artabazus preserved a lifewhich he lost in a few days by the lance of a barbarian, who had defied him tosingle combat. Twenty thousand Romans encountered the forces of Totila, nearFxnza, and on the hills of Mugello, of the Florentine territory. The ardour offreedmen, who fought to regain their country, was opposed to the languid temperof mercenary troops, who were even destitute of the merits of strong and well-dis­ciplined servitude. On the first attack they abandoned their ensigns, threw downtheir arms, and dispersed on all sides with an active speed which abated the loss,■whilst it aggravated the shame, of their defeat. The king of the Goths, whoblushed for the baseness of his enemies, pursued with rapid steps the path of ho­nour and victory. Totila passed the Po, traversed the Apennine, suspended theimportant conquest of Ravenna, Florence, and Rome, and marched through theheart of Italy, to form the siege, or rather blockade of Naples. The Romanchiefs, imprisoned in their respective cities, and accusing each other of the com­mon disgrace, did not presume to disturb his enterprise. But the emperor,alarmed by the distress and danger of his Italian conquests, despatched to the re­lief of Naples a fleet of galleys and a body of Thracian and Armenian soldiers.They landed in Sicily, which yielded its copious stores of provisions; but the de­lays of the new commander, an unwarlike magistrate, protracted the sufferingsof the besieged; and the succours, which he dropped with a timid and tardy hand,•were successively intercepted by the armed vessels stationed by Totila in the bayof Naples. The principal officer of the Romans was dragged, with a rope roundhis neck, to the foot of the wall, from whence, with a trembling voice, he exhort­ed the citizens to implore, like himself, the mercy of the conqueror. They re­quested a truce, with a promise of surrendering the city, if no effectual relief shouldappear at the end of thirty days. Instead of one month, the audacious barbariangranted them three, in the just confidence that famine would anticipate the term oftheir capitulation. After the reduction of Naples and Cumse, the provinces of< Lucania, Apulia, and Calabria, submitted to the kins of the Goths. Totila ledhis army to the gates of Rome, pitched his camp at Tibur, or Tivoli, within twen­ty miles of the capital, and calmly exhorted the senate and people to compare the-tyranny of the Greeks with the blessings of the Gothic reign. The rapid success of Totila may be partly ascribed to the revolution which threeyears' experience had produced in the sentiments of the Italians. At the com­mand, or at least in the name, of a catholic emperor, the pope,(l) their spiritualfather, had been torn from the Roman church, and either starved or murdered ona desolate island. (2) The virtues of Belisarius were replaced by the various oruniform vices of eleven chiefs, at Rome, Ravenna, Florence, Perugia, Spoleto, &c.who abused their authority for the indulgence of lust or avarice. The improve­ment of the revenue was committed to Alexander, a subtle scribe, Ion? practisedin the fraud and oppression of the Byzantine schools; and whose name of Psalliction,the scissars,{j) was drawn from the dexterous artifice with which he reduced thesize, without defacing the figure, of the gold coin. Instead of expecting the res­toration of peace and industry, he imposed a heavy assessment on the fortunes ofthe Italians. Yet his present or future demands were less odious than a prosecu­tion of arbitrary rigour against the persons and property of all those, who, underthe Gothic kings, had been concerned in the receipt and expenditure of the public (I) SylveriiiJ, bishop of Rome, was fim transported to Fatara, in Lyria, and at length starved (sub eorumcustodia inedia confectus) in the isle of Patmaria, A. T>. 538, June 20. (LiberM. in Breviar. c. 22. Anastasiui inSylverio. Baroniirs, A. D. 510. No. 2, S. Pagi in Vit. Pont. torn. i. p. 285, 286.) Frocopius (Anecdot. c. 10 ac­cuses only the empress and Antonina. . f2) Palmaria, a small uland,opposite to Tarracina and the coast of the Volsci, (Cluver. Ital. Antiq. lib. in.c. 7. p. 1014.) (3) As the Logothete Alexander, and most if his civil and military colleagues, were either disgraced ordespised, the ink of the Anecdotes (c. 4,5.12.) is scarcely blacker than that of the Gothic History (lib. iii. c.1.3,4. 9.20,21, Ike.) Vol. III. 13