OCR Output 47* THE HISTORY B OvO K nirerfary folemnities on the Alban mount. The. _/,-! only mode of expiation in this cafe was, that the"V.R. 358. military tribunes mould refign the government, theBiC. 394. aufpices be taken anew, and an interregnum ap­pointed. ' All which was performed, purfuant to adecree of the fenate. There were three interregesin fucceflion: Lucius Valerius, Quintus ServiliusFidenas, and Marcus Furius Camillus. In the mean­time the city was a fcene of unceafing confufion anddiforder, the plebeian tribunes refufing to let theelections proceed, unlefs a previous ftipulation wereagreed to, that the greater number of the militarytribunes mould be chofen out of the commons.During thefe tranfactions, a general afiembly ofEtruria was held at the temple of Voltumna, andthe Capenatians and Falifcians demanding that allthe ftates of Etruria fhould unite unanimouny in thedefign of raifing the fiege of Veii, the anfwer re­turned was, that " they had formerly given a re-"fufal of the fame requeft to the Veientians, be-"caufe thefe ought not to apply for fuccour, where,"in a cafe of fuch confequence, they had not ap-"plied for advice. That at prefent, though they"of themfelves would not, yet the fituation of their"affairs compelled them to refufe it: efpeciallv, as"in that part of Etruria, the Gauls, a race of men'e with whom they were unacquainted, had lately"become their neighbours, with whom they were"not on a footing, either of fecure peace, orofde-"termined war. Neverthelefs, in confideration of"the blood, the name, and the prefent dangers of"their kinlmen, they would go fo for, as that if irate, offered joint fnrrifices to Jupiter, whom they termed i latialis.'Jn particular, they odVifd a whiie bull, of wliich the deputies of each. ftate received a piece. The public feftivals, 'feriae,' were of fourkimis; ' ftativa;,' iminoveahle; 'conceptivae,' or ' indiflx,' move.able; 'imperativae,1 commande'l on particular occafions; and ' nun-• din*,' lor holding innrkets; fo called, hccaufe the time waj fixedby proclamation: iliey were genemlly celebrated by ihe confuU, be­fore their departure for their provinces. "any