OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. mony was regulated and maintained by the skilful hand of the firstartist ,s. This important measure was not carried into execution, till about Scries of events. fix years after the association of Maximian, and that interval of timehad not been destitute of memorable incidents. But we have pre­ferred, for the fake of perspicuity, first to describe the more perfectform of Diocletian's government, and afterwards to relate the^actions of his reign, following rather the natural order of theevents, than the dates of a very doubtful chronology. The first exploit of Maximian, though it is mentioned in a few A-D- 2,7- r . State of the words by our imperfect writers, deserves, from its singularity, to peasants ofbe recorded in a history of human manners. He suppressed thepeasants of Gaul, who, under the appellation of Bagaudæ ,a, hadrisen in a general insurrection; very similar to those, which in thefourteenth century successively afflicted both France and England ,7«It should seem, that very many of those institutions, referred by aneasy solution to the feudal system, are derived from the Celtic bar­barians. When Cæsar subdued the Gauls, that great nation wasalready divided into three orders of men; the clergy, the nobility,and the common people. The first governed by superstition, thesecond by arms, but the third and last was not of any weight oraccount in their public councils. It was very natural for the Ple­beians, oppressed by debt or apprehensive of injuries, to implore theprotection of some powerful chief, who acquired over their personsand property, the fame absolute rights as among the Greeks andRomans, a master exercised over his staves ,s. The greatest partof the nation was gradually reduced into a state of servitude; com­pelled to perpetual labour on the estates of the Gallic nobles, andconfined to the foil, either by the real weight of fetters, or by theno less cruel and forcible restraints of the laws. During the longseries of troubles which agitated Gaul, from the reign of Gallienusto that of Diocletian, the condition of these servile peasants wasVol. I. A a a peculiarly