OCR Output ICO LIVV. rule edile with Lucius Papirius Cursor. This I cannotaver as certain, because Piso, a more ancient writer ofannals, asserts that the curule ediles of that year wereCaius Doinitius Calvinus, son of Cneius, and SpuriusCarvilius Maximus, son of Caius. I am of opinionthat this latter surname caused a mistake concerningthe ediles ; and that thence followed a story, conform足able to this mistake, patched up out of the two elec足tions of the ediles and of the consuls. The generalsurvey was performed this year by Publius Sempro-nius Sophus and Publius Sulpicius Saverio, censors;and two tribes were added, the Aniensian and Teren-tine. Such were the occurrences at Roige1^ 10. Meanwhile, after much time had' been lost inthe tedious siege of Nequinum, two of the townsmen,whose houses were contiguous to the wall, havingformed a subterraneous passage, came by that privateway to the Roman advanced guards; and, being con足ducted thence to the consul, offered to give admittanceto a body of armed men within the works and walls.The proposal was thought to be such as ought neitherto be rejected, nor yet assented to without caution.' With one of these men, the other being detained as ahostage, two spies were sent through the mine; andcertain information being received from them of thepracticability of the design, three hundred men inarms, guided by the deserter, entered the city, andseized by night the nearest gate ; which being brokenopen, the Roman consul and his army took possessionof the city without any opposition. In this, mannercame Nequinum under the dominion of the Romanpeople. A colony was sent thither as a barrier againstthe Umbrians, and called Narnia, from the river Nar.The troops returned to Rome with abundance of spoil.This year the Etrurians made preparations for war inviolation of the truce. But a vast army of the Gaulsmaking an irruption into their territories, while theirattention was directed to another quarter, suspendedfor a time the execution of their design. They then,relying on the abundance of money which they pos足