OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 75 God had foretold these things, he was not believed, when he saidthat God commanded them to continue 'in that country, but theyimagined that he said so to gratify Baruch, his own disciple, andbelied God, and that he persuaded them to stay there, that theymight be destroyed by the Babylonians. Accordingly, both thepeople and Johanan disobeyed the counsel of God, which hegave them by the prophet, and removed into Egypt, and car­ried Jeremiah and Baruch along with him. 7. And when they were there, God signified to the prophet,that the king of Babylon was about making an expedition againstthe Egyptians, and commanded him to foretell to the people thatEgypt should be taken, and the king of Babylon should slay someof them, and should take others captive, and bring them to Ba­bylon; which things came to pass accordingly: for on the fifthyear after the destruction of Jerusalem, which was the twenty-third of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, he made an expeditionagainst Celcesyria, and when he had possessed himself of it, hemade war against the Ammonites and Moabites; and when hehad brought all these nations under subjection, he fell uponEgypt, in order to overthrow it; and he slew the * king thatthen reigned, and set up another; and he.took those Jews thatwere there captives, and led them away to Babylon. And suchwas the end of the nation of the Hebrews, as it hath been deli­vered down to us, it having gone twice beyond Euphrates; forthe people of the ten tribes were carried out of Samaria by theAssyrians, in the days of king Hoshea; after which the peopleof the two tribes that remained after Jerusalem was taken, [werecarried away] by Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon andChaldea. Now as to Shalmanezer, he removed the Israelitesout of their country, and placed therein the nation of the Cu-theans, who had formerly belonged to the inner parts of Persiaand Media, but were then called Samaritans, by taking the nameof the country to which they were removed; but the king ofBabylon, who brought out the two tribes ')-, placed no other na­tion in their country, by which means all Judea and Jerusalem,and the temple, continued to be a desert for seventy years : but * Herodotus says, this king of Ejrypt [Pharaoh Hophra, or Apries] was slain bythe Egyptians, as Jeremiah foretold his slaughter by his enemies, Jer. xliv. 29, 3O.and that as a sign of the destructior of Egypt [by Nebuchadnezzar,] Josephus says,tliis king was slain by Nebuchadnezzar himself. ')' We see here that Judea was left in a manner desolate after the captivity of thetwo tribes, and was not repeopled with foreign colonies, perhaps as an indication ofProvidence that the Jews were to repeople it without opposition themselves. I alsoesteem the latter and present desolate condition of the same country, without beingrepeopled by foreign colonies, to be a like indication, that the same Jews are hereaf­ter to repeople it again t>?«mseWes, at their so long expected future restoration.