OCR Output ait. 879.] 339 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. brought the child into the midst of them, andput on him the royal crown; and Jehoiadaanointed him with the oil, and made himking. And the multitude rejoiced, andshouted " God save the king."* When Athaliah unexpectedly heard theseacclamations, she was disturbed in her mind,and suddenly issued out of the royal palacewith her own army, and when she was cometo the temple, the priests received her; butas for those that stood round about thetemple, as they were ordered by the high-priests to do, they hindered the armed menthat followed her from going in. But whenAthaliah saw the child standing on a pillar,twith the royal crown upon his head, sherent her clothes, and cried out vehemently,and commanded her guards to kill him thathad laid snares for her, and endeavoured todeprive her of the government. But Je­hoiada called for the captains of hundreds,and commanded them to bring Athaliah tothe valley of Cedron, and slay her there; forhe would not have the temple defiled withthe punishment of this pernicious woman.And he gave order, that if any one camenear to help her, he should be slain also.Wherefore those that had the charge of herslaughter led her to the gate of the king'smules and slew her there. Jehoiada now called together the people,and the armed men into the temple; andmade them take an oath, that they wouldbe obedient to the king, and take care of hissafety, and of the safety of his government.After which he obliged the king to givesecurity, upon oath, that he would worshipGod, and not transgress the laws of Moses.They then ran to the house of Baal, whichAthaliah and her husband Jehoram hadbuilt to the dishonour of the God of theirfathers, and to the honour of Ahab; and de- molished it, and slew Mattan, that had thepriesthood. But Jehoiada intrusted the careand custody of the temple to the priests andLevites, according to the appointment ofDavid; and enjoined them to bring theirregular burnt-offerings twice a day; and tooffer incense according to the law. He alsoordained some of the Levites with the por­ters, to be a guard to the temple; that noone that was defiled might come there. When Jehoiada had set these things inorder, he, with the captains of hundreds, andthe rulers, and all the people, took Jehoashout of the temple into the king's palace:and when he had set him upon the king'sthrone, the people shouted for joy, and kepta festival for many days. But the city wasquiet upon the death of Athaliah. Now Je­hoash was seven years old when he took thekingdom. His mother's name was Zibiah,of the city Beersheba. And all the time thatJehoiada lived, Jehoash]: was careful that thelaws should be kept, and was very zealousin the worship of God. And when he wasof age he married two wives, who were givento him by the high-priest; by whom wereborn to him both sons and daughters. CHAP. VIII. OF HAZAEL'S EXPEDITION AOAINST THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL,AND THE INHABITANTS OF JERUSALEM; THE DEATH OFJEHU, AND SUCCESSION OF JEHOAHAZ; THE CONDUCT OFJEHOASH, KING OF JUDAII; AND THE ACCESSION OFAMAZIAH. NOW Hazael, king of Syria, foughtagainst the Israelites, and spoiled theeastern parts of the country beyond Jordan,which belonged to the Reubenites and Gad-ites, and to the half tribe of Manassites; asalso Gilead and Bashan; burning, spoiling,and offering violence to all that he could -» 2 Kings xi. 12. t The words in the text are,—And when she looked,behold the king stood by a pillar, as the manner was,2 Kings xi. 14. Now there were two famous pillars,which Solomon erected in the porch of the temple,whereof that on the right hand was called Jachin, andthat on the left Booz, and were each of them (accordingto the account we have) eighteen cubits high, 1 Kings vii.15, 21. Solomon's design in setting up these two pillars,is generally supposed to have been, in order to representthe pillar of the cloud, and the pillar of fire, which wentbefore the Israelites, and conducted them in the wilder- VOL. I.—NOS. 29 & 30. ness. The pillar on the right hand represented the pillarof the cloud, and that on the left the pillar of fire; andnear one of these pillars, in all probability, the royalthrone was erected; unless we can suppose, that, what ishere called a pillar, was that brazen scaffold, five cubitslong, five broad, and five high, which Solomon made atfirst upon his dedicating the temple, but was afterwardscontinued for the king, upon any solemn occasion, to ap­pear upon, and where doubtless there was a throne ofstate. Calmet's Commentary, and Bedford's ScriptureChronology, lib. vi. c. 2. B.| 2 Kings xii. 2. 3N