OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 275 decumanus, and every child of free parents seemed born forthe Roman slave-drivers. It is true that the Asiatic boreeven this torture with his inexhaustible passive endurance;but it was not patience and reflection that made him bearit peacefully. It was rather the peculiarly Oriental want ofpower to take the initiative; and in these peaceful lands,amidst these effeminate nations, strange and terrible thingsmight happen, if once there should appear among thema man who knew how to give the signal for revolt. There reigned at that time in the kingdom of Pontus MithradatesMithradates VI. surnamed Eupator (born about 624, + E"Pat01.-.,691) who traced back his lineage on the father's side in thesixteenth generation to king Darius the son of Hystaspesand in the eighth to Mithradates I. the founder of thePontic empire, and was on the mother's side descended fromthe Alexandridae and the Seleucidae. After the early deathof his father Mithradates Euergetes, who fell by the hand ofan assassin at Sinope, he had received the title of king about634, when a boy of eleven years of age; but the diadem 120.brought to him only trouble and danger. His guardians,and even as it would seem his own mother called to takea part in the government by his father's will, conspiredagainst the boy-king's life. It is said that, in order to escapefrom the daggers of his legal protectors, he became of hisown accord a wanderer, and during seven years, changinghis resting-place night after night, a fugitive in his own . kingdom, led the life of a homeless hunter. Thus the boy 'grew into a mighty man. Although our accounts regardinghim are in substance traceable to written records of contem­poraries, yet the legendary tradition which is generatedwith the rapidity of lightning in the East early adornedthe mighty king with many of the traits of its Samson andRustem. These traits, however, belong to his characterjust as the crown of clouds belongs to the character of thehighest mountain-peaks; the outline of the figure appearsin both cases only more coloured and fantastic, not dis­turbed or essentially altered. The armour, which fitted thegigantic frame of king Mithradates, excited the wonder ofthe Asiatics and still more that of the Italians. As a runnerhe overtook the swiftest deer; as a rider he broke in the wild steed, and was able by changing horses to- accomplish120 miles in a day; as a charioteer he drove with sixteen in hand, and gained in competition many a prize—it was