OCR Output MONETIUM. 369 MONS SELEUCUS. enumerated by Pliny, who places them below theSaltus Pyrenaeos (it. 19). The name seems to bepreserved in that of Monems, which is between Ponsand Savarreins, where it is said that there are tracesof Roman camps. Motions is in the department ofBoxes Pyrenees. [G. L.] MOXE'TIUM (Monf™»), a town of the Iapodesin lllyria. (Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314.) MONOECI PORTUS (ModoIkou Kirfy, Strab.PtoL). or more correctlv PORTUS HERCULISMOXOECI (Plin. iii. 5. § 7; Tac. Hist. iii. 42),sometimes also PORTUS HERCULIS alone (Val.Max. L 6. § 7: Monaco'), a port and town on thecoast of Liguria, at the foot of the Maritime Alps,distant rather more than 200 stadia from Antipolis.(Strab. iv. p. 202.) Its name was obviously derivedfrom the existence there of a temple of Hercules;and the Greek form of the epithet by which it wascharacterised, at ooce shows that it must have owedits foundation to the Greeks of Massilia. ButSnabo, who derives the same inference from thename, had evidently no account of its origin orfoundation, which were naturally connected by laterwriters with the fables concerning the passage ofHercules, so that Amminaus ascribes the foundationof "the citadel and port" of Monoecus to Herculeshimself. (Amm. Marc. xv. 10. § 9.) The port iswell described by Strabo (/. c.) as of small size, soas sot to admit many vessels, but well sheltered.Luean, however, who gives a somewhat detailednotice of it, says it was exposed to the wind calledby the Gauls Circins (the Vent de Bise) which ren­dered it at times an unsafe station for ships (Lucan.i. 403—108); and Silius Italicus dwells stronglyso the manner in which the whole of this part ofthe coast of Liguria was swept by the same wind,which he designates under the more general name«f Boreas. (SU. Ital. i. 586—593.) The port wasfilmed by a projecting rocky point or headland, onwhich stands the modern town of Mowico, andwhich was doubtless occupied in like manner in an­cient times, at first by the temple of Hercules, after­wards by the town or castle of Monoecus (orx Mo-toed, Ammian. L c.) The town, however, does not»«m to have ever been a place of much importance;the advantage of its port for commercial purposesWsK greatly neutralised by the want of commu­nication with the interior. It was, however, fre-Tamtfv resorted to by the Roman fleets and ships,«n their way along the coast of Liguria into Spain;and hence was a point of importance in a navaljwnt of view. (Val. Max. i. 6. § 7; Tac. Hist. iii.41) The headland of Monaco itself is of com-puitivfly sm.U height, and lies immediately under» peat mountain promontory, formed by one of the•purs or projecting ridges of the Maritime Alps:■nd which was regarded by many writers as theraioral termination of the great chain of the Alps.[Aura, p. 107.] * The passage of this mountainnmt always have been one of the principal diffi-mlt:es in the way of constructing a high road alongtl* wart of Liguria; this was achieved for the firstnu* by Augustus, and on the highest point of thepteajrt (called in the Itineraries "in Alpe summa"and "in Alps marilima," Itin. Ant. p. 296; Tab.^'**t), he erected a trophy or monument to com-wttiorate the complete subjugation of the different Hence Virgil uses the expression "descendenstree >|.jo<wd" (Am. vi. 830) by a poetical figure forths Maritime Alp* in general. VOL. II. nations inhabiting the Alps. The inscription ofthis monument has been preserved to us by Pliny(iii. 20. s. 24), and is one of our chief authoritiesfor the geography of the Alpine tribes. The ruinsof the monument itself, which was of a very massivecharacter, still remain, and rise like a great towerabove the village of Turbia, the name of which isevidently a mere corruption of Tbopaka Augusti(Tpdiraia Segaorou, Ptol. iii. 1. § 2), orTBOi'AEAAlpium, as it is termed by Pliny (I. c). The line of the Roman road, cut in the face of themountain, may be traced for some distance on eachside of Twbia, and several ancient milestones havebeen found, which commemorate the construction ofthe road by Augustus, and its reparation by Hadrian.(Millin. Voy. en Piemont, vol. ii. pp. 135, 138;Durante, Chorvgraphie du Comte de Aice, pp. 23—30.) The port of Monoecus seems to have been theextreme limit towards the E. of the settlements ofMassilia, and hence both Pliny and Ptolemy regard itas the point from whence the Ligurion coast, in themore strict sense of the term, began. (Plin. iii. 5.s. 7; Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 2, 3.) Ptolemy has made astrange mistake in separating the Portus Herculisand Portus Monoeci, as if they were two distinctplaces. [E. H. B.] MONS AUREUS (Xpiaovv bpos). 1. A moun­tain in Moesia Superior, which the emperor Probusplanted with vines. (Eutrop. ix. 17, 20; It. Ant.p. 132; It. U. p. 564.) 2. A town on the Danube, at the foot of themountain, 23 miles from Singidunum. (Tab.Peut.) [A. L.] MONS BALBUS, a mountain fastness of N.Africa, to which Masinissa retired. (Liv. xxix. 31.)Shaw (Trav. p. 184) places the range in the dis­trict of Dakhul, E. of Tunis; perhaps Sabalct-es-Sahib. [E. B. J.] MONS BRISIACUS. This is one of the posi­tions in the Roman kins, along the Rhine. Theyplace it between Helvetum or Helccbus [Hklcebus]and Urunci. There is no doubt that is Yievx-Erisach or Altbreisach, as the Germans call it Allthe positions of the Itins. on the Rhine are on thewest or Gallic side of the river, but Vieux-Brisachis on the east side. The Rhine has changed itsbed in several parts, and this is one of the planswhere there has been a change. Breisach is de­scribed by Luitprand of Pavia (quoted by D'Anville),as being in the tenth century surrounded by theRhine " in modum insulae." It may have been onan island in the Roman period. The hill (mons) ofAltbreisach is a well marked position, and was oncecrowned by a citadel. Altbreisach is now in theduchy of Baden, and opposite to Neubreisach on theFrench side of the Rhine. [G. L.] MONS MARIOTfUM, a town in Hispania Bae-tica, on the Mons Marianus, and on the road leadingfrom the mouth of the Anas to Emerita, now Ma­rines, in the Sierra Moreno. (It. A nt. p. Ai2;Inscr. ap. Caro, Ant. i. 20; Spon. Miscell. p. 191;Flore?., Jisp. Sagr. ix. p. 23.) MONS SACER (to Upby Spos, Ptol. iii. 17. § 4),a mountain range on the SE. coast of Crete, near'Hierapytna, identified with the Pytha (rii/rca) ofStrabo (x. p. 472; comp. Groskurd, ad loc.; Hock,AVefn, vol. i. p. 16.) [E. B. J.] MONS SELEUCUS, in Gallia Naibonensis, isplaced in the Antonine Itin. next to Vapincum(Gap), on a road from Vapincum to Vienna (I ienne). B B