OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 279 Cilicia, and to it the original stock of the population alongthe west coast in the Carian and Lydian provinces seemsalso to have belonged, while the north-western point wasoccupied by the Bithynians, who were related to the Thra-cians in Europe. The interior and the north coast, on theother hand, were filled chiefly by Indo-Germanic peoplesmost nearly cognate to the Iranian. In the case of theArmenian and Phrygian languages* it is ascertained, in thatof the Cappadocian it is highly probable, that they had im­mediate affinity with the Zend; and the statement made asto the Mvsians, that among them the Lydian and Phrygianlanguages met, just denotes a mixed Semitic-Iranian popu­lation that may be compared perhaps with that of Assyria.As to the regions stretching between Cilicia and Caria, moreespecially Lycia, there is still, notwithstanding the full re­mains of the native language and writing that are in thisparticular instance extant, a want of reliable results, and itis merely probable that these tribes ought to be reckonedamong the Indo-Germans rather than the Semites. Howall this confused mass of peoples was overlaid first with anet of Greek mercantile cities, and then with the Hellenismcalled into life by the military as well as intellectual ascend­ancy of the Greek nation, has in general outline been setforth already. In these regions ruled king Mithradates, and that first of Pontus,all in Cappadocia on the Black Sea or Pontus as it was called,a district in which, situated as it was at the north-easternextremity of Asia Minor towards Armenia and in constantcontact with the latter, we may presume that the Iraniannationality preserved itself with less admixture than any­where else in Asia Minor. Not even Hellenism had pene­trated far into that region. With the exception of thecoast where several originally Greek settlements subsisted,—namely the important commercial marts of Trapezus,Amisus, and above all Sinope, the birthplace and resi­dence of Mithradates and the most flourishing city of theempire,—the country was still in a very primitive condition.Not that it had lam waste; on the contrary, as the pro­vince of Pontus is still one of the most fertile on the face of * The words quoted as Phrygian Baydios = Zeus and the old royal nameMui-is have been beyond doubt correctly referred to the Zend 6a//Aa = Ood andthe Germanic Mannus, Indian Manus. (Lassen, Zeitschrift der deutschen mor-genland. Gesellschaft, vol. x. p. 329 seq.)