OCR Output SECOND VOLUME. 33t flowing realms of generation. And hence we may infer that thestatue mentioned in this place by Pausanias was an image of atUmoniacal Minerva. Page 198. Afire there it than other Jiret more fierce."] Kuhniutobserves, that this proverb is mentioned Jay Plutarch, in his Lifeof Demetrius; by Homer, Odyssey 19; and by Aristophanes inEquit. Page 212. When he says, Plato speaks to this effect in the 5th book of his Republic. Page 214. The mother Dindymene and Attet,~\ Dindymcnesignifies Cybele, or the mother of the gods. But the fable respect­ing this goddess and Attes, or rather Attis (for so it is writtenby Harpocration, Suidas, the emperor Julian, and the philoso­pher Sallust), is beautifully unfolded by Sallust in his goldentreatise On the Gods and the World, chap. 4. as follows: "It issaid that the mother of the gods, perceiving Attis by the riverGallus, became in love with him; and having placed on him astarry hat, lived afterwards with him in intimate familiarity: butAttis falling in love with a nymph, deserted the mother of thegods, and entered into association with the nymph. Throughthis the mother of the gods caused Attis to become insane, whocutting off his genital parts left them with the nymph, and thenreturned again to his pristine connexion with the goddess. "The mother of the gods then is the vivisic goddess, and onthis account is called mother 1 but Attis is the demiurgusof na­tures conversant with generation and corruption ; and hence he issaid to have been found by the river Gallus, for Gallus denotesthe Galaxy, or milky circle, from which a passive body descendsto the earth, But since primary gods perfect such as are se­condary, the mother of the gods falling in love with Attis im­parts to him celestial powers; for this is the meaning of thestarry hat. But Attis loves a nymph, and nymphs preside overgeneration; for every thing in generation flows. But becauseit is necessary that the flowing nature of generation should be stopped,