OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 27 to them. The Tiburtians and Pranestians were amercedin a portion of their lands; not merely on account oftheir recent crime of rebellion, common to them withthe rest of the Latines, but because they had formerly,in disgust at the Roman government, associated inarms with the Gauls, a nation of savages. From theother states they took away the privileges of intermar­riage, commerce, and holding assemblies. To theCampanians, in compliment to their horsemen, whohad refused to join in rebellion with the Latines, aslikewise to the Fundans and Formians, because thetroops had always found a safe and quiet passagethrough their territories, the freedom of the state wasgranted, without right of suffrage. The states of Cu-mae and Suessula, it was decreed, should be placed onthe same footing, and enjoy the same privileges, asCapua. Of the ships of the Antians, some were drawnup into the docks at Rome ; the rest were burned, andwith the prows of these a pulpit, built in the forum,was ordered to be decorated, hence called rostra.1 15. During the succeeding consulate of Caius Sul-picius Longus and Publius jElius Paetas, [A. U. C.418. B. C. 334] whilst all the neighboring states weresincerely disposed, not more through consideration ofthe power of the Romans than grateful sentiments in­spired by their generous conduct to cultivate peacewith them, a quarrel broke out between the Sidiciniansand the Auruncians. The latter having been formerly,on their submission, admitted into alliance by TitusManlius in his consulate, had ever since demeanedthemselves peaceably, for which reason they weremore justly intitled to expect assistance from the Ro­mans. But before the consuls led out the army, (forthe senate had ordered the Auruncians to be sup­ported,) intelligence was brought that these, throughfear, had deserted their city, and, removing with theirwives and children, had fortified Suessa, which is nowcalled Aurunca, and that their former dwellings and 1 From rostrum, the beak or prow of a ship.