OCR Output 362 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I. of their letters, both for the common affairs of life, and forthe delivering down the history of common transactions, Ithink I may omit any proof, because all men allow it so to be.But now as to our forefathers, that they took no less careabout writing such records (for I will not say they took greatercare than the others I spoke of,) and that they committed thatmatter to their high-priests and to their prophets, and thatthese records have been written all along down to our owntimes with the utmost accuracy; nay if it be not too bold forme to say it, our history will be so written hereafter; I shallendeavor briefly to inform you. 7. For our forefathers did not only appoint the best of thesepriests, and those that attended upon the divine worship, forthat design from the beginning, but made provision that thestock of the priests should continue unmixed and pure; forhe who is partaker of the priesthood must propagate of a wifeof the same nation, without having any regard to money, orany other dignities. But he is to make a scrutiny, and totake his wife's genealogy from the ancient tables,1 and pro足cure many witnesses to it. And this is our practice not onlyin Judea, but wheresoever any body of men of our nation dolive; and even there an exact catalogue of our priests' mar足riages is kept; I mean at Egypt and Babylon, or in any otherplace of the rest of the habitable earth, whithersoever ourpriests are scattered ; for they send to Jerusalem the ancientnames of their parents in writing, as well as those of their re足moter ancestors, and signify who are the witnesses also. Butif any war falls out, such as have fallen out a great many ofthem already, when Antiochus Epiphanes made an invasionupon our country, as also when Pompey tlie Great and Quin-tilius Varus did so also, and principally in the wars that havehappened in our own times, those priests that survive themcompose new tables of genealogy out of the old records, andexamine the circumstances of the women that remain; forstill they do not admit of those that have been captives, as 1 Of this accuracy, of the Jews before and in our Savior-s time, in carefullypreserving their genealogies all ulong, particularly those of the priests, seeJuscphus's Life, sect. 1. This accuracy seems to have ended at the destruc足tion of Jerusalem by Titus, or, however, at that by Adrian.