OCR Output 298 MAURETANIA. MAURETANIA (Mtlilah.) W. of Cop Tree Forcas, which is aterminal ion of an ofishovit of the secondary chain ofthe Atlas, was the district of the Mktagonitae,extending to Abvla (JebeUel-Mina). From hereto Tisois {Tangier) the coast is broken by alternatecliffs and coves; and, still standing to the W., a boldshore presents itself as far as the fine headland ofAmi'KI.i sia (Cape S/mrtel; Ras-el-Shukbir of thenatives). From Cape Spartt'l to the SSW. as faras Zilis (Arzila), the coast-line is a fiat, sandy,and shingly beach, after which it becomes more boldas it reaches Lixi'S (Al-Hardtch or Laraiche).(Smyth, The Mediterranean, pp. 94—99.) Adescription of the SYY. coast is (riven in the articleI.ihya. (Comp. C. Miiller, Tab. ad Geog. Graec.Minores, ed. Didot, Paris, 1855; West Coast ofAfrica surveyed, by Ark-tt, Vidal, and Boteler. 1832;Cute occideniale de CAfrique an Depot de h Ma­rine, Paris, 1852; Carle dc I'Umpire de Maroc,jar K. Kenou, 1844; Barlh, Karte vom NordAfruianisehen Gestadeland, Berlin, 1849.) III. History and Political Geography. The Romans first became acquainted with thiscountry when the war with Hannibal was transferredto Africa; Mauretania was the unknown land to theW. of the Mulucha. In the Jugurthine War, Boc­chus, who is called king of Mauretania, played thetraitor's part so skilfully that he was enabled to handover his kingdom to his two sons Bogudes and Boc-choris, who were associated upon the throne. Theseprinces, from their hostility to the Pompeian party,were confirmed as joint kings of Mauritania byJ. Caesar in B. c. 49. During the civil war betweenM. Antonius and Octavius, Bocchus sided with thelatter, while Bogudes was allied with Antonius.When Bogudes crossed into Spain, Bocchus seizedupon his brother's dominions; a usurpation whichwas ratified by Octavius. In B. c 25, Octavius gaveto Juba II., who was married to the daughter ofCleopatra and Antonius, the two provinces of Mau­retania (afterwards called Tingitana and Cacsarien-sis) which had formed the kingdom of Bogudes andBocchus, in exchango for Xumidia, now made altoman province. Juba was succeeded by his sonPtolemy, whom Selene, Cleopatra's daughter, boreto him. (Strab. xvii. pp. 828, 831, 840.) Ti­berius loaded Ptolemy with favours on avcount ofthe assistance he gave the Romans in the war withTacfarinas (Tac. Ann. iv. 23—26); hnt in A. r>.41 he was put to death by Caligula. (Dion Cass,lix. 25; Suet. Col. 26; Seneca, de Tranq. 11.)Kor coins of these native princes, see Eckhel, vol. iv.pp. 154—101. In a. d. 42, Claudius divided the kingdom into twoprovinces, separated from each other by the river Mu­lucha, the ancient frontier between the territories ofllocchus and Jugurtha; that to the W. was calledMauretania Tijioitana, and that to the E. Mau-KETAXIA CaESAIUKX.318. (Dion Cass, lx. 9; Plin.v. I.) Both were imperial provinces (Tac. Uisl. i. 11,ii. 58; Spart, Uadr. 6, " Manretaniae praefectura"),and were strengthened by numerous Roman ** co­lonise." M. Tingitana contained in the time ofPliny (t c) five, three of which, Zius, Babba,ami Uanasa, as they were founded by Augustuswhen Mauretania was independent of Rome, werereckoned as belonging to Baetica. (Plin. L c; Pomp.Mela, iii. 10. § 5.) Ti.noi and Ltxts were colo­nies of Claudius (Plin. /. e.); to which were addedin later times RrgAUlU and Vol.t iiilih (/fin. Ant.) M. Caesariensis contained eight colonies fnndf 1 !•▼Augustus, Cautenxa, Glnigi, Ioilgiu. Iii *-comae, KisAzis, Saldb, Slccabah, TlBUSir-Tis; two by Claudius, Cakhakkia. funnerly lit,the capital of Juba, who gave it this name in honourof his |iatron Augustus, and OpriDUM Norm;one by Nerva, SiTiris; and in later timet, Atu-xaria, Biua, Sioa, AyUAE Caudak, Q'txjl, HlSlCURKIt'M, Al'ZIA, GlLVA, IcnSII'M, and 1 I- pasa, in all 21 well-known colonies, U*i«!es trrrrA"inunicipia" and "oppida Latina." The Xuiuaenumerates no less than 170 episcopal towns is thetwo provinces. (Comp. Morcelli, Africa Christiana,vol. i. pp. 40—43.) About A. D. 400, MauretauaTingitana was under a " Praeses," in the dR-o-^e ««"Spain; while Mauretania Caesariensis, which still re­mained in the hands of the diocese of Africa, wasdivided into Mai kktania I. or Smrrasu, andMalhetakia II. or Cak&auiexsu. The emperorOtho had assigned the cities of Mauretania to Bartica(Tac. Hist. i. 78); but this probably applied only tosingle places, since we find the two Maureianiaa re­mained unclianged down to the time of CcnstantiiK.Mnrqnardt, in Becker's Uandbuch der Jivm. AU.pp. 230—232; Morcelli, Africama Christiana, Taj. up. 25.) In A. D. 429. the Vandal king Genseric, at theinvitation of Count Boniface, crossed the straits UGades, and Mauretania, with the other African pro­vinces, fell into the hands of the barbarian con­querors. Belisarius, " the Africanus of New Borne,*destroyed the kingdom of the Vandals, and Maure­tania again became a Roman province under anEastern exarch. One of his ablest generals, Johnthe Patrician, for a time repressed the inroad* ofthe Moors upon Roman civilisation; and under hissuccessor, the eunuch Solomon, the long-lost prr*.vince of Mauretania Sitifensis was restored to theempire; while the Second Mauretania, with the ex­ception of Caesareia itself, was in the hands of Ma>-tigas and the Moors. (Comp. Gibbon, cc xli. xiiii.;I,c Bean, Bos Empirt, vol. viii.) At length, iaA. D. 698—709, when the Arabs made the finalconquest of Africa,— desolated for 300 years sincethe first fury of the Vandals,—the Moors or Berbersadopted tho religion, the name, and the origin uftheir conquerors, and sunk back into their murecongenial state of Mahometan savages. Pliny (I. c.) makes out the breadth of the twoMauretaniae as 467 M. P.; but this will be too mm heven for Tingitania, where Mount Atlas lies imo tothe S., and inure llian 300 M. P. beyond the utmostextent of any part of C.ie.-ariensU. The same authorgives 170 M. P., which are too few for Tingitania,and 879 M. P., which are too many for Cananeoaav.(Shaw, 7"ror. p. 9.) The following tribes are enumerated by Pto­lemy (iv. 2. §§ 17—22) in I. MaURsvtasiaCaksakikssis :—Toi>i:cae (Tooowroi), on theleft bank of the Auipsa«a; to the K. of these,CoF.DAMt'su (KoiSafAovaioi), and still more tothe N., towards the coast, and to the E. on theAmj^aga, Mucuni (Movfrovvoi) and Cum as(Xitovw); to the W. of the latter, Tl'UBcaii (Ta»-AiJr<noi) and Banil'KI (Box'ovpei); S, uf th«e\Maciu:rk8 (MoxoOpci), Salasxm (2oAaVr>.o. i,and Malciiibii (Ma\xoitioi); NW. of the Ti-i.f.nsii. and to the E. of ZaLACca M, and on thecoast, Macchurebi (Moxx*"?')*01)- W. of tbc-*,and N. of Zalacus, on the mouth of the CbinaUrh.Machlsii (Maxevffioi); below them, on the vtiirr