OCR Output 102 LIVY. there Nerulum was surprised and stormed by the con足sul jEmilius. When fame trad spread abroad amongthe allies how firmly the affairs of Capua were settledby the introduction of the Roman institutions, the An-tians, imitating the example, presented a complaint oftheir being without laws and without magistrates; onwhich the patrons of the colony itself were appointedby the senate to form a body of laws for it. Thus notonly the arms, but the laws of Rome widely extendedtheir sway. 21. The consuls, Caius Junius Bubulcus and Quin-tus jEmilius Barbula, at the conclusion of the yeardelivered over the legions, not to the consuls electedby themselves, who were Spurius Nautius and Mar足cus Popillius, but to a dictator, Lucius /Emilius.[A.U.C. 438. B.C. 314.] He, with Lucius Fulvius,master of the horse, laying siege to Saticula, gave oc足casion to the Samnites of reviving hostilities, and thisproduced a twofold alarm to-the Roman army. Onone side, the Samnites having collected a numerousforce with intent to relieve their allies from the siege,pitched their camp at a small distance from that of theRomans: on the other side the Saticulans, openingsuddenly their gates, ran up with violent tumult totheir posts. Afterwards each party, relying on sup足port from the other more than on its own strength,formed a regular attack, and pressed on the Romans.The dictator, on his part, though obliged to opposetwo enemies at once, yet had his line secure on bothsides; for he chose a position in which he could noteasily be surrounded, and also formed two differentfronts. However, he directed his first efforts againstthose who bad sallied from the town, and, withoutmeeting much resistance, drove them back within thewalls. He then turned his whole force against theSamnites: there he found greater difficulty. But thevictory, though long delayed, was neither doubtful noralloyed by losses. The Samnites, being forced to flyinto their camp, extinguished their fires at night, andmarched away in silenoe ; and renouncing all hopes of