OCR Output CHAP. LII. 469 was numbered among the ansars, or auxiliaries, of Me­dina, who sheltered the head of the flying prophet. Inhis youth he fought, at Beder and Ohud, under the holystandard: in his mature age he was the friend and fol­lower of Al i; and the last remnant of his strength andlife was consumed in a distant and dangerous waragainst the enemies of the Koran. His memory wasrevered; but the place of his burial was neglected andunknown, during a period of seven hundred and eightyyears, till the conquest of Constantinople by Mahometthe Second. A seasonable vision (for such are the ma­nufacture of eveiy religion) revealed the holy spot at thefoot of the walls and the bottom of the harbour; andthe mosch of Ayub has been deservedly chosen for thesimple and martial inauguration of the Turkish sultans.dThe event of the siege revived, both in the Peace and ° .' tribute, east and west, the reputation of the Roman arms,'and cast a momentary shade over the glories ofthe Saracens. The Greek ambassador was favourablyreceived at Damascus, in a general council of the emirsor koreish; a peace, or truce, of thirty years, was ratifiedbetween the two empires; and the stipulation of anannual tribute, fifty horses of a noble breed, fifty slaves,and three thousand pieces of gold, degraded the majestyof the commander of the faithful.* The aged caliphwas desirous of possessing his dominions, and ending hisdays in tranquillity and repose; while the Moors andIndians trembled at his name, his palace and city of Da­mascus was insulted by the Mardaites, or Maronites, ofmount Libanus, the firmest barrier of the empire, till theywere disarmed and transplanted by the suspicious policyof the Greeks/ After the revolt of Arabia and Persia, J Demetrius Cantemir's Hist, of the Othman Empire, p. 105,106. Rycaut's Stateof the Ottoman Empire, p. 10,11. Voyages de Thevenot, part 1. p. 189. TheChristians, who suppose that the martyr Abu Ayub is vulgarly confounded withthe patriarch Job, betray their own ignorance rather than that of the Turks. 'Theopbanes, though a Greek, deserves credit for these tributes, (Chronograph.p. 295, 296. 300, 3OI.) which are confirmed, with some variation, by the ArabicHistory of Abulpharagius. (Dynast, p. 128. vers. Pocock.) 'The censure of Theophanes is just and pointed, rm p*paMin JimtJ-riwr »X;»TH-