OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. petitors, the one of whom had expelled, and the chap.other had invited, the Barbarians *. Julian, whose xvii'mind was deeply wounded by the reproach of ingra­titude, aspired to maintain, by argument as well asby arms, the superior merits of his cause; and toexcel, not only in the arts of war, but in those of com­position. His epistle to the senate and people ofAthens t seems to have been dictated by an elegantenthusiasm, which prompted him to submit his ac­tions and his motives to the degenerate Athenians ofhis own times, with the same humble deference, as ifhe had been pleading in the days of Aristides, beforethe tribunal of the Areopagus. His application tothe senate of Rome, which was still permitted to be­stow the titles of Imperial power, was agreeable tothe forms of the expiring republic. An assemblywas summoned by Tertullus, praefect of the city; theepistle of Julian was read; and as he appeared to bemaster of Italy, his claims were admitted without adissenting voice. His oblique censure of the innova­tions of Constantine, and his passionate invectiveagainst the vices of Constantius, were heard with lesssatisfaction: and the senate, as if Julian had beenpresent, unanimously exclaimed, "Respect, we be-"seech you, the author of your own fortune." Anartful expression, which, according to the chance ofwar, might be differently explained; as a manly re­proof of the ingratitude of the usurper, or as a * Julian (ad S. P. Q. Athen. p. 286.) positively asserts, that he interceptedthe letters of Constantius to the Barbarians: and Libanius as positively affirms,that he read them on his march to the troops and the cities. Yet Ammianug(xxi. 4.) expresses himself with cool and candid hesitation, si mmce soHus ad-mittenda est fides. He specifies, however, an intercepted letter frorn Vadomairto Constantius, which supposes an intimate correspondence between them:"Caesar tuus disciplinam non habet," f Zosimus mentions his epistles to the Athenians, the Corinthians, and theLacedaemonians. The substance was probably the same, though the address wasproperly varied. The epistle to the Athenians is still extant (p. 268—287.),and has afforded much valuable information. It deserves the praises of the Abbede la Bleterie (Pref. a l'Histoire de Jovien, p. 24, 25.), and is one of the bestmanifestos to be found in any language. N 4