OCR Output Chap. X.J THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 367 marine commands were especially sought after as being themost lucrative, it was usual to intrust a transmarine com­mand on the expiry of their official year to those magistrateswhom their office confined either in law or at any rate infact to the capital, that is, to the two praetors administeringjustice in the city and frequently also to the consuls; a coursewhich was compatible with the nature of prorogation, sincethe official authority of supreme magistrates acting in Eomeand in the provinces respectively, although differently en­tered on, was not in strict state-law different in kind. Such was the state of things which Sulla found existing, Regulationand which formed the basis of his new arrangement. Its of theirmain principles were, a complete separation between the fonctionspolitical authority which governed in the, burgess dis- y u'tricts and the military authority which governed in thenon-burgess districts, and an uniform extension of the dura­tion of the supreme magistracy from one year to two, thefirst of which was devoted to civil, and the second tomilitary, functions. Locally the civil and the military Separationauthority had certainly been long separated by the con- of the po-stitution, and the former ended at the pomerium, where .^^Dthe latter began; but still the same man held the supreme thoritv. Eolitical and the supreme military power united in hisand. In future the consul and praetor were to deal withthe senate and burgesses, the proconsul and propraetorwere to command the army; but all military power wascut off by law from the former, and all political action fromthe latter. This primarily led to the political separation Cisalpineof the region of Northern Italy from Italy proper. Hither- Gaulto they had stood perhaps in a national antagonism, inas- elict*° nlt"much as Northern Italy was inhabited chiefly by Liguriansand Celts, Central and Southern Italy by Italians; but, ina political and administrative point of view, the whole con­tinental territory of the Roman state from the Straits tothe Alps including the Illyrian possessions — burgess,Latin, and hon-Italian, communities without exception—was in the ordinary course of things under the administra­tion of the supreme magistrates who were acting in Rome,as in fact her colonial foundations extended through allthis territory. According to Sulla's arrangement Italyproper, the northern boundary of which was at the sametime changed from the -3£sis to the Rubico, was—as a regionnow inhabited without exception by Roman citizens—made