OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 127 proposed, which prohibited the planting of the colony ofJunonia. Gracchus, who with the other men nominated toestablish it was just then selecting the colonists, appearedon the day of voting at the Capitol whither the burgesseswere convoked, with a view to procure by means of hisadherents the rejection of the law. He wished to shun actsof violence, that he might not himself supply his opponentswith the pretext which they sought; but he had not beenable'to prevent a great portion of his faithful partisans, whoremembered the catastrophe of Tiberius and were wellacquainted with the designs of the aristocracy, from appear­ing in arms, and amidst the immense excitement on bothsides quarrels could hardly be avoided. The consul LuciusOpimius offered the usual sacrifice in the porch of the Capito-line temple; one of the attendants assisting at the ceremony,Quintus Antullius, with the holy entrails in his hand,haughtily ordered "bad citizens" to quit the porch, andseemed as though he would lay hands on Gaius himself;whereupon a zealous Gracchan drew his sword and cut theman down. A fearful tumult arose. Gracchus vainlysought to address the people and to avert from himself theresponsibility of the sacrilegious murder; he only furnishedhis antagonists' with a fresh and formal ground of accusa­tion, as, without being aware of it in the confusion, heinterrupted a tribune in the act of speaking to the people—,an offence, for which an obsolete statute, originating at thetime of the old dissensions between the orders (i. 283), hadprescribed the severest penalty. The consul Lucius Opimiustook his measures to put down by force of arms the insur­rection for the overthrow of the republican constitution, asthey chose to designate the events of this day. He himselfpassed the night in the temple of Castor in the Forum; atearly dawn the Capitol was filled with Cretan archers, thesenate-house and Fonmi with the men of the governmentparty—the senators, and the fraction of the equites adheringto them—who by order of the consul had all appeared inarms and each attended by two armed slaves. None of thearistocracy were absent; even the aged and venerableQuintus Metellus, well disposed to reform, had appearedwith shield and sword. An officer of ability and experienceacquired in the Spanish wars, Decimus Brutus, was intrustedwith the command of the armed force; the senate assembledin the senate-house. The bier with the corpse of Antullius