OCR Output 52 [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. fore carefully dispose of the plentiful cropswhich will come m the former years, thouwilt procure that the future calamity will notbe felt by the Egyptians." Hereupon the king wondered at the dis­cretion and wisdom of Joseph; and askedhim by what means he might so dispense theplentiful crops in the happy years, as to makethe miserable crops more tolerable: Josephthen added this advice; to spare the goodcrops, and not permit the Egyptians to spendthem luxuriously; but to reserve what theywould have spent in luxury beyond theirnecessity against the time of want. He alsoexhorted him to take the corn of the husband­men, and give them only so much as mightsuffice for their food. Accordingly Pharaoh,being surprised at Joseph, not only for hisinterpretation of the dream, but for the coun­sel he had given, entrusted him with dis­pensing the corn; with the power to do whathe thought would be for the benefit of the Eeople of Egypt, and for the benefit of thejng: as believing that he who first discedvered this method of acting would prove thebest overseer of it. Joseph having this powergiven him by the king,* with leave to makeuse of his seal, and to wear purple,t drove inhis chariot through all the land of Egypt ;$and took the corn|| of the husbandmen, allot- ting as much to every one as would be suffi­cient for seed and for food; but without d#-covering to any one the reason why he did so. CHAP. VI. OF THE ARRIVAL OP JOSEPH S BRETHREN IN EGYPT, ANDHIS CONDUCT TOWARDS THEM. JOSEPH was now grown up to thirty yearsof age, and enjoyed great honours fromthe king; who called him Psothom Phanech,out of regard to his prodigious degree of wis­dom; for that name denotes a revealer ofsecrets. He also married a wife of very highquality: she was the daughter of Petephres,§one of the priests of Heliopolis, and her namewas Asenath. By her he had children beforethe scarcity came on, Manasseh, the elder,which signifies forgetful; because his presenthappiness made him forget his former misfor­tunes. And Ephraim, the younger, whichsignifies restored; because he was restoredto the freedom of his forefathers. Now after Egypt had happily passed overseven years, according to Joseph's interpre­tation of the dreams, the famine came uponthem on the eighth year: and because thismisfortune fell upon them when they had nosense** of it before-hand, they were all sorelyafflicted by it, and came running to the king's * Joseph had his name changed on this occasion. Itwas an ancient custom among eastern princes, upon theirpromotion of any favourite, to give him a new name. Nebu­chadnezzar, we read, "Dan. i. 7. imposed new names uponDanieJ, and his companions in Babylon; and to this veryday Mo<rul never advances a man, but he gives him a newname, and that significative of something belonging to him;but here the question is, what is the meaning of the namewhich Pharaoh gave Joseph? In the Hebrew text it isZaphnah paaneah, but in the Egyptian and Greek Penta­teuch it is Pson-thonphanech. The oriental versions,however, are pretty unanimous in rendering it, a revealerof secrets; but there are some reasons why this shouldnot be its true interpretation. For the time that Pharaohgave the patriarch this name, was when he advanced himfrom the condition of an imprisoned slave to that of a rulerthroughout all the land of Egypt! and therefore, it isreasonable to suppose that he gave it in commemorationof such promotion, rather than of his expounding dreams:because to have called him an interpreter of dreams only,had been degrading him to the level of magicians. Nowif Pharaoh gave him this name in memory of his promo­tion, it was very likely that this name was strictly andproperly Egyptian, (otherwise the common people couldnot have understood it,) though Moses, in his recording it,might endeayour to accommodate to the Hebrew idiom;and if it was Egyptian, the word in that language signifies what we call a prime minister: or strictly the first, orprince of the lords. Biblintheca Bibl. occas.annot. 41. B. t To be arrayed in a rich dress, and to ride in greatpomp and ceremony, were the ancient modes of investingwith the highest degree of subordinate power in Egypt;and with a small variation still remain so. The history ofthe revolt of Ali Bey, (p. 43.) informs us, that on theelection of a new sheik bellet, the pasha who approves ofhim invests him with a valuable fur, treats him with sher­bet, and when the sheik bellet departs, the pasha presentshim with a horse richly caparisoned. Harmer, vol. iii. p. 308. B. t Gen. xlv. 42—3. I! That is, bought it for Pharaoh at a very low price. § This Potiphar, or as in Josephus, Petephres, whowas now a priest of On or Heliopolis, is the same name inJosephus, and perhaps in Moses also, with him who is be­fore called the Head Cook or Captain of the Guard; andto whom Joseph was sold. See Gen. xxxvii. 36. xxxix.1. with xli. 50. They are also affirmed to be one and thesame person in the Testament of Joseph, for he is theresaid to have married the daughter of his master and mis­tress. Nor is this a notion peculiar to that Testament;but as Dr. Bernard confesses, common to Josephus, to theSeptuagint interpreters; and toother learned Jews of oldtime. ** This intire ignorance of the Egyptians of these years