OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rfy fair prospect of honours and fortune that was thrown open to theirambition. But the favour, which implied a distinction, was lostin the prodigality of Caracalla, and the reluctant provincials Thefreedomwere compelled to assume the vain title, and the real obliga- given to all _ _ „ the provin- tions, of Roman citizens. Nor was the rapacious Ion or oe- ciais, for theverus contented with such a measure of taxation, as had appeared ["^ion.^sufficient to his moderate predecessors. Instead of a twentieth, heexacted a tenth of all legacies and inheritances; and during hisreign (for the ancient proportion was restored after his death) hecrushed alike every part of the empire under the weight of hisiron scepter "V . • I i When all the provincials became liable to the peculiar impositions Temporaryof Roman citizens, they seemed to acquire a legal exemption from the [heuibute.0tributes which they had paid in their former condition of subjects.Such were not the maxims of government adopted by Caracalla andhis pretended son. The old as well as the new taxes were, at the fametime, levied in the provinces. It was reserved for the virtue of Alexan­der to relieve them in a great measure from this intolerable grievance,by reducing the tributes to a thirtieth part of the sum exacted at thetime of his accession "s. It is impossible to conjecture the motive thatengaged him to spare so trifling a remnant of the public evil; butthe noxious weed, which had not been totally eradicated, again sprangup with the most luxuriant growth, and in the succeeding age,darkened the Roman world with its deadly shade. In the course ofthis history, we shall be too often summoned to explain the land-tax,the capitation, and the heavy contributions of corn, wine, oil, andmeat, that were exacted from the provinces, for the use of thecourt, the army, and the capital. As long as Rome and Italy were respected as the center of govern- Consequencesment, a national spirit was preserved by the ancient, and insensibly a freedomTfimbibed by the adopted citizens. The principal commands of the Rome'army were filled by men who had received a liberal education, were Vol. I. Z well