OCR Output 242 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 75. 'For, when the siege of Jotapata was over, and I was amongthe Romans, I was kept with much care, by means of the greatrespect that Vespasian shewed me. Moreover, at his command, Imarried a virgin *, who was from among the captives of thatcountry : yet did she not live with me long, but was divorced,npon my being freed from my bonds, and my going to Alex­andria. 'However, I married another wife at Alexandria, andwas thence sent, together with Titus, to the siege of Jerusalem,and was frequently in danger of being put to death ; while boththe Jews were very desirous to get me under their power, inorder to have me punished. And the Romans also, wheneverthey were beaten, supposed that it was occasioned by mytreachery, and made continual clamours to the emperors, anddesired that they would bring me to that punishment, as atraitor to them : but Titus Caesar was well acquainted withthe uncertain fortune of war, and returned no answer to thesoldiers vehement solicitations against me. Moreover, whenthe city Jerusalem was taken by force, Titus Caesar persuadedme frequently to take whatsoever I would of the ruins of mycountry; and said that he gave me leave so to do. Butwhen my country was destroyed, I thought nothing else to beof any value, which I could take and keep as a comfort undermy calamities ; so I made this request to Titus, that my familymight have their liberty : I had also the holy books f by Titus'sconcession. Nor was it long after that I asked of him the lifeof my brother, and of fifty friends with him, and was not de­nied. When I also went once to the temple, by the permissionof Titus, where there were a great multitude of captive womenand children ; I got all those that I remembered as among myown friends and acquaintance to be set free, being in numberabout one hundred and ninety ; and so I delivered them withouttheir paying any price of redemption, and restored them to theirformer fortune. And when I was sent by Titus Caesar withCerealius, and a thousand horsemen, to a certain village calledThccoa, in order to know whether it were a place fit for a camp,as I came back, I saw many captives crucified, and rememberedthree of them as my former acquaintance. 1 was very sorry at this « Here Josephus, a priest, honestly confesses that he did that at the command *of Vcspasian, which he had before told us was not lawful for a priest to do by the law of Moses, Anti<j. B. 111. ch. xii. sect. 2. 1 mean, the taking a captive Woman to wife. See also against Appian, B. I. ch. vii. But he seems to have been quickly sensible that his compliance with the commands of an emperor xvould *iot excuse him, for he soon put her away, as Reland justly observes here. ,t Of tliis most remarkable clause, and its most important consequences, see Essay on the Uld Testament, page 1'93—195.