OCR Output BOMA. ROMA. 725 rxat (be 10th Regio, or Palatinm, marks thew w full taking the reverse direction ofhlfoumd kjT«citas: "Continet casam Romuli,Mine llttni Ileum et Apollinia Rhamnusii, Penta-ft us, ilarnm Aufustinianam et Tiberiannm, Au-rnunuti, irwn Palatinam, aeiiem Jovis Victoria,cxisn I/kjow, Curiam Veterem, Fortunam Respici-aVo, Srptizonium I>ivi Severi, Victoriam Gcrmani-tatL-t, LupffcaL" The Curiae Veteres are herekttunai ia the singular nnmber; but there is some■tan; fa this deviation. Thus Ovid (F<ul. iii.I>)ajri?— 'Jicoi tone reps posita viret arbore Phoebi jAn'.t tuaa tit idem, Curia prUca, fores," a I'rUca is identified with the Curiae'nrm bribe following passage in Macrobius: —L&a quoque ingrediente mense tarn in Regiaaniirpt slope naminum domibus, laureae veteresmi urn mutabantnr." (Sat. i. 12.) Now, in orderi fr'rraiat the precise situation of theCuria Vet us ofb- Suiiiu, it must be borne in mind tliat the " Donius■twain*,' or palace of Augustus, occupied a ■ •.table partion of the NK. side of the Palatine,crejiaj at the JJ. corner, as will be shown inana; the topography of the later city, and end-r ifvbt^l; opposite to the arch of Titus, where ■ 011001 was situated. Proceeding eastward,«/ uie same side of the hill, we find enumerated'' . -v.. r u-ii and Area Palatina. Then follows • trrj«» of Jupiter Victor, which we must not««H is Becker does (//<i« p. 100, cf. p. 422, > Me Preller, Htffionrn, p. 186), with that'later Stator, since the latter, according to the ay rather more northwards in the 4thT> ad probahl; on or near the Summa Sacraa. ill! cf Jupiter Victor, then, must have lain£ «f the palace, and, as there is but a short** an ob this side of the hill, it is probuble that > t>mm Mollis must be placed at least at itsb*» XL angle, h* not on the side facing theafca. The Curia Yet us, of course, lay more to>&,taa perhaps towards the middle of the E.»ef the Palatine. Its site near the temple (ortalaf Furtuna Revpiciens is confirmed by thea*''.'epiulma, which mentions in the 10th Regio"■faaCuriarum" near to another of Fortuna . (Grater, Inter, cel.) The fourth pointby Tacit us — the Aedes Lamm— lay on■ Sacra Via, and therefore at about the■*> * the SE. side of the Palatine hilL (" Aedem«■ ia Sauna Sacra Via," Man. Ancyr. j " Ancus(Wauatit) in Summa Sacra Via, ubi aedes■* Sohn. i. 24.) At this point the historianha deacription of the poinoerium of Romulus,1 P^eeais to say that the forum and Capitol * '-end to have been added to the city not byE March but by Titan Tatius. Hence he is■pd rah having about a third of the poinoerium and, in order to remedy this defect,(* Mwrit, <fc p. 14, Ifandb. p. 102), not-ne the atactica of other critics and editors,>•"» *• alter the punctuation of the passage, and*■* * tarn ad saoellum Larum forumque Ro-< Capit'iliain non a Komulo," &c. But inis gamed by this proceeding — only theK 'paw trooi the arch of Titus to the N. pointPakliae, whilst the remaining part of the > tnm tbeace to the Forum Buariuin still remains-r-'ind. Bat what U worse, even this little is^ *: the catenae of truth ; since, strictly apeak- ing, a line drawn from the Afdes Larnm to the forumwould include the temple of Vesta (£. Maria Lib*-ratrice), which, as we learn from Dionysius (ii. 65),lay outside the walls of Romulus. Moreover, ac­cording to the emended punctuation, it might bedoubtful whether Tacitus meant that the forum wasincluded in the Romulean city, or not; and it wasapparently to obviate this objection that Beckerproposed to insert Aoc before et (hoc et Capitoliurn).But these are liberties which sober criticism canhardly allow with the text of Buch a writer. Tacituswas not speaking like a common topographer orregionary, who is obliged to identify with painfulaccuracy every step as he proceeds. It is more con­sistent with his sententious style that, having car­ried the line thus far,he left his readers to completeit from the rough indication —which at the sametime conveyed an important historical fact — thatthe forum and Capitol, which skirted at some dis­tance the northern angle of the hill, were added byTatius, and lay therefore outside the walls of Ro­mulus. His readers could not err. It was wellknown that the original Rome was square; and,having indicated the middle point in each of thesides, he might have been charged with dulness hadhe written, " turn ad sacellum Lamm, inde ad forum PLAN OF THE ROMULEAS CITT eg A. Mont Palatinut.B. B. Mont Capitolinut. C. Colli* Uuirinalii. D. Mont Avrntinu<.«K. Forum Romanura. a a. Velia. b. Inter duos Lucos. c. Germalut. dd. Clivut Capitolinuiece. Sacra Via. /. Summa Sacra Via. Nova Via.Cllvtit Victoria*.1. Porta Janualii.3. Porta Car mental U. 3. Sacellum I.arum. 4. Porta MuiJionis.8. Porta Romanula. 6. Lupercal. 7. Ara Contl. 8. Porta Ferentlna? 9. Curiae Veteres. 3 A 3