OCR Output A. D. i8.] OF TACITUS. in popularity, insomuch that he was hailed the Fatherof the Legions. His wife Plancina forgot the decencies of the femalecharacter. She attended the troops in the field, shereviewed'the cavalry; she railed with spleen and ma­lice against Agrippina, and did not even spare Ger-manieus. This behaviour, it was generally believed,had the approbation and countenance of Tiberius.The consequence was, that not only the weak andprofligate were alienated from Germanicus, but eventhe men of sober conduct, who were inclined to re­main in their duty, went in a short time to pay theirhomage to the favourites of the emperor. LVI. Germanicus was fully apprised of these pro­ceedings ; but Armenia claimed his first attention. Hehastened without loss of time to regulate the affairsof that kingdom, where caprice and levity marked thenational character, and the situation of the countryencouraged the inconstancy of the people. Armeniaborders a great length of way upon the Roman pro­vinces; then stretches, to a vast extent, as far as theterritory of the Medes. Hemmed in by two great em­pires, that of Parthia and of Rome, the Armeniansare never steady to either; but. with their naturallevity, alternately at variance with each; with theRomans, from rooted aversion; with the Parthians,from motives of ambition, and national jealousy. Inthe present juncture, the throne was vacant. Vo-nones being expelled, the wishes of the people werefixed on Zeno, the son of Polemon, king of Pontus.The young prince had shown, from his earliest youth,a decided inclination to Armenian manners. Thesports of the chase were his favourite amusement; hedelighted in carousing festivals, and all the pastimesof savage life. For these qualities he was high inesteem, not only with the populace, but also thegrandees of the nation. In this disposition of men'sminds, Germanicus entered the city of Artaxata, and,amidst the acclamations of the people, placed thediadem on the head of Zeno. The Armenians paidhomage to their new master, in the ardour of theirzeal proclaiming him king, by the name of Artaxias,