OCR Output 488 ROMAN EMPIRE. a sixth part of that number; and the presence and meritof the caliph Mervan, the fourteenth and last of the houseof Ommiyah. Before his accession to the throne, hehad deserved, by his Georgian warfare, the honourableepithet of the ass of Mesopotamia;" and he might havebeen ranked among the greatest princes, had not, saysAbulfeda, the eternal order decreed that moment for theruin of his family; a decree against which all humanprudence and fortitude must struggle in vain. The or­ders of Mervan were mistaken or disobeyed: the returnof his horse, from which he had dismounted on a neces-cary occasion, impressed the belief of his death; and theenthusiasm of the black squadrons was ably conductedby Abdallah, the uncle of his competitor. After an ir­retrievable defeat, the caliph escaped to Mosul: but thecolours of the Abbassides were displayed from the ram­part: he suddenly repassed the Tigris, cast a melancholylook on his palace of Haran, crossed the Euphrates,abandoned the fortifications of Damascus, and, withouthalting in Palestine, pitched his last and fatal camp atBusir on the banks of the Nile.0 His speed was urgedFail of the by the incessant diligence of Abdallah, who inA jc£I75os'every step of the pursuit acquired strength andt'eb. 10. reputation: the remains of the white faction werefinally vanquished in Egypt; and the lance, which ter­minated the life and anxiety of Mervan, was not less • Al Heman. He had been governor of Mesopotamia, and the Arabic proverbpraises the courage of that warlike breed of asses who never fly from an enemy.The surname of Mervan may justify the comparison of Homer, (Iliad, ?.. 557. &c.)and both will silence the moderns, who consider the ass as a stupid and ignobleemblern. (D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p.558.) 0 Four several places, all in Egypt, bore the name of Busir, or Busiria, so famousin Greek fable. The first, where Ain van was slain, was to the west of the Kile,in the province of Fium, or Arsinoe ; the second in the Delta, in the Sebennyticnome ; the third, near the pyramids; the fourth, which was destroyed by Uio-clesian, in the Thebais. I shall here transcribe a note of the learned and orthodoxMichaelis: Videntur in pluribus ^Egypti superioris urbibus Busiri Coptoque armasumpsisse Christiani, libertatemque de rehgione sentiendi defendisse, sed suc-cubuisse quo in bello Coptus et Busiris diruta, et circa Esnam masna strages edits.Bellum narrant aed causam belli ignorant scriptores Byzantini, alioqui Copt um etBusirim non rebellasse dicturi, sed caussam Christianorum suscepturi. (Not. 31 I.p. 100.) For the geography of the four Bosirs, see Abulfeda (Descript. .(Egypt,p. 9. vers. Michaelis, Gottingtc, 1776, in quarto), Michaelis, (Not. 188—1!7.p. 58—63.) and d'Anville. (Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 85. H7. 205.)