OCR Output C. III.] TERRIBLE FAMINE. 263 concealed. Upon this the seditious came in presently, andsmelling the horrid scent of this food, they threatened her,that they would cut her throat immediately, if she did notshow them what food she had gotten ready. She replied,that " she had saved a very fine portion of it for them;" andwithal uncovered what was left of her son. Hereupon theywere seized with a horror and amazement of mind, and stoodastonished at the sight, when she said to them, — " This ismine own son, and what hath been done was mine own doing.Come, eat of this food, for I have eaten of it myself. Donot you pretend to be either more tender than a woman, ormore compassionate than a mother: but if you be so scrupu­lous, and do abominate this my sacrifice, as I have eaten theone-half, let the rest be reserved for me also." After whichthose men went out trembling, being never so much affrightedat any thing as they were at this, and with some difficultythey left the rest of that meat to the mother. Upon whichthe whole city was full of this horrid action immediately: andwhile every body laid this miserable case before their owneyes, they trembled, as if this unheard-of action had beendone by themselves. So those that were thus distressed bythe famine were very desirous to die, and those already deadwere esteemed happy, because they had not lived long enougheither to hear or to see such miseries. 5. This sad instance was quickly told to the Romans, someof which could not believe it, and others pitied the distresswhich the Jews were under ; but there were many of them whowere hereby induced to a more bitter hatred than ordinaryagainst our nation. But for Caesar, he excused himself be­fore God as to this matter, and said, " that he had proposedpeace and liberty to the Jews, as well as an oblivion of alltheir former insolent practices ; but that they, instead of con­cord, had chosen sedition ; instead of peace, war; and, beforesatiety and abundance, a famine: that they had begun withtheir own hands to burn down that temple which we havepreserved hitherto; and that, therefore, they deserved to catsuch food as this was; that, however, this horrid action ofeating an own child ought to be covered with the overthrow