OCR Output 336 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV'. tlie Hernici; but the enemy haviugdisappeared, he tookFerentinum,* whither a great number of them had" re­tired. The booty there came shoft of their expectation;the Volsci, when they began to despair of making a pro­per defence, had packed up their effects, in the night­time, and departed the city. The next day it was taken;but it was almost desolate. Of its territory, the consulmade a present to the Hernici. CHAP. LII. 'An l::jiiih:niail distemper, and a Famine. A. R. 341. 1. HE moderation of the tribunes rendered this yearpretty peaceable. But L. Icilius, one of the tribunes ofthe people, immediately upon the accession of Q. Fab i usAmbustus, and C. Furius Paulus to the consular fasces,as if it had been hereditary in his flame and family, en­deavoured to raise a sedition, by reviving the plea of theAgrarian laws.- A plague, however, which broke out atthat time, and gave more alarm than it proved destructive,diverted the people's attention from the forum and po­litical disputes, to look after their families, and talje careof their health. It is thought that the eilects of the plaguewere less fatal, than those of the sedition would havebeen. The city was all over oppressed with sickness,though no great mortality ensued; but the neglect ofagriculture, whilst the calamity prevailed, as it general­ly happens, the next year, when M. Papirius Atratinus,and C. Nautius Rutilus were consuls, produced a scarci­ty. This would have done much more mischief thanthe plague, if they had not found relief from their agents,whom they sent through all the nations upon the coastof the Tuscan sea, and the banks of the Tiber, to pur­chase corn. • . The Samnites, who were then in possession of Capaaand Cumse, behaved insolently to the commissaries, andprohibited them from buying, whereas they were liberal­ly supplied by the tyrants of Sicily. The Etrurians, with * A town which originally belonged to the Volsci, now Fioreo-tioo, situated iu the Campagna di Roma, 48 miles from Rome.