OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 873 16. This is Manetho's account. And evident it is, fromthe number of years by him set down belonging to thisinterval, if they be summed up together, that these shepherds,as they are licre called, who were no other than our fore­fathers, were delivered out of Egypt, and came thence, andinhabited this country, three hundred and ninety-three yearsbefore Danaus came to Argos; although the Argives lookupon him' as their most ancient king. Manetho, therefore,bears this testimony to two points of the greatest consequenceto our purpose, and those from the Egyptian records them­selves. In the first place, that we came out of anothercountry into Egypt, and that withal our deliverance out ofit was so ancient in time as to have preceded the siege ofTroy almost a thousand years;1 but then, as to those thingswhich Manetho adds, not from the Egyptian records, but, ashe confesses himself, from some stories of an uncertainoriginal, I will disprove them hereafter particularly, andshall demonstrate that they are no better than incrediblofables. 17. I will now, therefore, pass from these records, andcome to those that belong to the Phoenicians, and concernour nation, and shall produce attestations to what I have saidout of them. There are, then, records among the Tyrians,that take in the history of many years, and these are publicwritings, and are kept with great exactness, and include ac­counts of the facts done among them, and such as concerntheir transactions with other nations also, those I mean whichwere worth remembering. Therein it was recorded, that thetemple was built by king Solomon at Jerusalem one hundred the mott ancient king of Argos, he need not be supposed to mean, in thestrictest sense, that they had no one king so ancient as ho ; for it is certainthey owned nine kings before him, and Inachus at the head of them; seeAuthentic Records; Part ii. p. 983, as Josephus could not but know verywell; but that he was esteemed as very ancient by them, and that they knewthey had been first of all denominated Daaai, from this very ancient kingDanaus. Nor does this superlative degree always jmply the most ancieat ofall without exception, but is sometimes to be rendered very ancient only, asis the case in the like superlative degrees of other words also.1 See the preceding note. IV. — 82