OCR Output CHAP.'XL.] Of1'THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 80 their fantastic capitals. A variety of ornaments and fi­gures was curiously expressed <h mosaic; and the imagesof Christ, of the Virgin, of saints, and of angels, whichhave been defaced by Turkish fanaticism, were danger­ously exposed to the superstition of the Greeks. Ac­cording to the sanctity of each object the precious me­tals wrere distributed in thin leaves or in solid masses.The balustrade of the choir, the capitals of the pillars,the ornaments of the doors and galleries, were of giltbronze; the spectator was dazzled by the glittering as­pect of the cupola; the sanctuary contained forty thou­sand pound weight of silver; and the holy vases andvestments of the altar were of the purest gold, enrichedwith inestimable gems. Before the structure of thechurch had risen two cubits above the ground, 45,200/.were already consumed ; and the whole expense amount- R^hes.ed to 320,000/.; each reader, according to the measureof his belief, may estimate their value either in gold orsilver; but the sum of 1,000,000/. sterling is the resultof the lowest computation. A magnificent temple is alaudable monument of nation altaste and religion, andthe enthusiast who entered the dome of St. Sophia, mightbe tempted to suppose that it was the residence, or eventhe workmanship, of the Deity. Yet how dull is theartifice, how insignificant is the labour, if it be comparedwith the formation of the vilest insect that crawls uponthe surface of the temple! • So minute a description of an edifice which time has Churchesrespected, may attest the truth, and excuse the relation iTces?of the innumerable works, both in the capital and pro­vinces, which Justinian constructed on a smaller scaleand less durable foundations.0 In Constantinople alone,and the adjacent suburbs, he dedicated twenty-fivechurches to the honour of Christ, the Virgin, and the ° The six books of the Edifices of Procopius are thus distributed.—The first isconfined to Constantinople; the second incudes Mesopotamia opd-Sjria; the third,Armenia and the Euxine; the fourth, Europe; the fifth, Asia Minor and Palestine;the ahth, Egypt and Africa. Italy is forgot by the emperor or the historian, whopublished this work of adulation before the dale (A, D. 555.) of its final conquest. VOL. V. H