OCR Output B. II. 199 YEAR III.—BEFORE CHRIST 429. mountains, and make use of scimetars, who are distinguishedby the name of Dians, and dwell most of them about Rho-dope. Some of these he took into pay, but some of themvoluntarily attended. He had levies also from amongst theAgrianians, Leaeans, and the other nations of Paeonia sub­ject to himself. These were the furthest people in his domin­ions, reaching up to the Graaeans and Leaeans of Paeonia andthe river Strymon, which deriving its source from mountScomius waters the Graaeans and Leaeans, and is the boun­dary of his empire from those Paeonians who still are free.Towards the Triballians, who are also a free people, theboundary is formed by the Trerians and Tilat«ans. Theselive to the north of mount Scomius, and reach westerly asfar as the river Oscius, which riseth out of the same moun­tain with the Nestus and the Heber, a great but barrenmountain adjoining to the Rhodope. The kingdom of Odrysa is of this large extent alongthe coast, reaching from the city of Abdera to the mouth ofthe river Ister in the Euxine sea. The shortest cut roundits coast requireth four days and as many nights for a trad­ing-vessel, of the round-built, sailing directly before thewind. A good walker will also be eleven days in going thenearest way by land from Abdera to the Ister. So large wasits extent along the coast. But towards the continent, togo along it from Byzantium to the Leaeans and the Stry­mon, for so far does it run upwards from the sea, wouldcost an expeditious walker thirteen days continued journey.The yearly tribute exacted from this tract of Barbaric land,and his cities in Greece, by Seuthes, who succeeding Sital-ces in these dominions very much improved the revenue,amounted to four hundred talents of silver*, though it mightbe paid either in silver or gold. The presents constantlymade to him either of gold or silver were not less in value,besides gifts of vestments both figured and plain, and allkinds of furniture, which were not only made to him, but • 78,940/. sterling.