OCR Output LESS A. 167 LEUCA. The pastures on this mountain produced good cheesein Pliny's time (J7.JV.xi. 42), as they do now.Moml L<izlre gives its name to the Frencli depart­ment Insert, [G. L.] LESSA (A^ffo-a), a Tillage of Epidauria, uponthe confines of the territory of Argos, and at thefoot of Mount Arachnaeura. Pausanias saw therea temple of Athena. The ruins of Lessa are situatedopon a hill, at the foot of which is the village ofLyhtrio. On the outside of the walls, near thefixt of the mountain, are the remains of an ancientpyramid, near a church, which contains some Ioniccrfamns. (Pans. ii. 25. § 10; Leake, Morea,voL ii. p. 419; Boblaye, Reckerches, $c. p. 53;Cortius, PeJopontiesos, vol. ii. p. 418.) LESTADAE. [Naxos.] LE'SURA, a branch of the Moselln (Motel), men­tioned by Ausonius (MoteUa, v. 365). He calls it"•exilis," a poor, ill-fed stream. The resemblanceof name leads us to conclude that it is the Lexer orXiue, which flows past Wittlick, and joins the Motelan tbe left bank. [G. L.] LETANDROS, a small island in the Aegaean*ea, near Amorgos, mentioned only by Pliny (iv.12. a. S3). LETE (Arrrrii EtH. Anraios), a town of Mace­donia, which Stephanus B. asserts to have been thetatire city of Kowchofl, the admiral of Alexanderthe Great; but in this he is certainly mistaken, asN rare has was a Cretan. (Comp. Arrian, Intl. 18;Dwd. xix. 19.) [E. B. J.] COIN OF LETE. LETHAXUS (Aij&uoj, Strab. x. p. 478; Ptol.iiL 17. § 4; Eustath. ad Horn. II. ii. 646; Solin.17; Vib. Seq. 13), the large and important river•hirh watered the plain of Gortvna in Crete, nowthe Mabgmiti. [E. B. J.] LETHAEUS (Ai)0suot), a small river of Caria,which has its sources in Mount Pact yes, and after aabort course from north to south discharges itselfinto the Macandcr, a little to the south-east of Mag­nesia. (Strab. xii. p. 554, xiv. p. 647; Athen. xv.f»-683) Arundcll (Seven Churches, p. 57) describesth* river which he identifies with the ancient Lc-tWus,as a torrent rushing along over rocky ground,and forming many waterfalls. [L. S.] LETflES FL. [Galeaecia.] LETOTOLIS (AtttoOs wo'A*j. Ptol. iv. 5. § 46;Anrovr, Stepb. B. *. v.; Letus, Itin. Anton, p. 156:Etk. ArrrQwo^irns), a town in Lower Egypt, nearthe apex of the Delta, the chief of the nomc Leto-fvliies, but with it belonging to the nomos or pre­fecture of Memphis. (Strab. xvii. p. 807.) It wasprobably situated on the banks of the can.il ofMemphis, a few miles SW. of Cercasorum. Leto, from*h«n the town and the nome derived their name,*** an appellation of the deity Athor, one of theeifhtfMiMBJoresofAegypt. Lat. 30°N. [W.B.D.] LETRINI (AVrpirai, Paus.; Aerptvo, Xen.), atown of PUatis in Elis, situated nr>ar the sea, uponthe Sacred Way leading from Elis to Olvmpia, at the distance of 180 stadia from Elis, and 120 fromOlvmpia. It was said to have been founded byLetreus, a son of Pelops. (Paus. vi. 22. § 8.) To­gether with several of the other dependent town­ships of Elis, it joined Agis, when he invaded theterritories of Elis; and the Eleians were obliged tosurrender their supremacy over Letrini by the peacewhich they concluded with the Spartans in B. c.400. (Xen. Hell. iii. 2. §§ 25, 30.) Xenophon(t. c.) speaks of Letrini, Ainphidoli, and Mar-ganeis as Triphylian plac«s, although they were onthe righf bank of the Alpheius; and if there is nocorruption in the text, which Mr. Grote thinks thereis (FlisL of Greece, vol. ix. p. 415), the word Tri­phylian must be used in a loose sense to signify thedependent townships of Elis. The AerptvaXat yvaiare mentioned by Lycophron (158). In the time ofPausanias nothing remained of Letrini except a fewhouses and a temple of Artemis Alphciaea. (Paus.I. e.) Letrini may be placed at the village andmonastery of St. John, between Pyrgo and the portof Katdkolo, where, according to Leake, amongmany fragments of antiquity, a part of a largestatue was found some years ago. (Leake, Morea,vol. ii. p. 188; Boblaye, p. 130, &C; Curtius, Pe-loponne&os, vol. i. p. 72.) LEVACI, a ]>eople in Caesar's division of Gallia,which was inhabited by the Belgae. The Levaci,with some other small tribes, were dependent on theNervii. (Ii. G. v. 39.) The position of the Levaciis unknown. [G. L.] LEVAE FANUM, in Gallia Belgica is placedby the Table on the road from Lugdunum Batavorum(Lmdtn) to Noviomagus (Nymegen). Levae Fanumis between Fletio (Vleuten) and Carvo; 25 M. P.from Fletio and 12 from Carvo. [Cakvo.] D'An-ville, assuming that he has fixed Carvo right, sup­poses that there is some omission of places in theTable between Fletio and Carvo, and that we cannotrely upon it. He conjectures that Levae Fanummay be a little beyond Ihtrsteede, on the bankOpposite to that of the Batavi, at a place which hecalls Liven-dael (vallis Levae), this Leva beingsome local divinity. Walckenaer fixes Levae Fanumat Leertum, [G. L.] LEUCA (t& Aevtcd, Strab.: Letica), a smalltown of Calabria, situated close to the Iapygianpromontory, on a small buy immediately to the W.of that celebrated headland. Its site is clearlymarked by an ancient church still called Sta. Mariadi Letica, but known also as the Madonna di Finis-terra, from its situation at the extreme point ofItaly in this direction. The Iapygian promontoryitself is now known as the Capo di Letica. Strabois the only author who mentions a town of thisname (vi. p. 281), but Lucan also notices the"secreta Httora Leucae" (v. 375) as a port fre­quented by shipping; and its advantageous position,at a point where so many ships must necessarilytouch, would soon create a town upon the spot. Itwas probably never a municipal town, but a largevillage or borgo, such as now exists upon the spotin consequence of the double attraction of the portand sanctuary. (Rampoldi, Corogr. delV Italia,vol. ii. p. 442.) Strabo tells us (I c.) that the inhabitants ofLeuca showed there a spring of fetid water, whichthey pretended to have arisen from the wounds ofsome of tbe giants which had been expelled by Her­cules from the Phlcgraean plains, and who had takenrefuge here. These giants they called Leutemii, M 4