OCR Output B.VI. THE PELOPONNESlAN WAR. 175 most awed by the Syracusans, stood resolutely out; butthe generality of those who were seated in the midlandparts, as they were now, and had ever kept themselves,uncontrouled, sided at once with the Athenians. Theyfurnished them with corn for the service of the army,and there were some who supplied them with money.And then the Athenians, taking the field against suchas refused to accede, forced some to a compliance, andprevented others from receiving garrisons and aids fromSyracuse. During winter also they removed againfrom Naxus to Catana; and, having repaired theircamp, which had been burned by the Syracusans, choseto pass the remainder of the winter there. They also dispatched a trireme to Carthage, to asktheir friendship, and whatever assistance could possiblybe obtained. They sent also to Tuscany, as some ci­ties on that coast had made them voluntary offers of as­sistance. And, farther, they circulated their orders a-mong the Siculi, and dispatched in particular one to theEgesteans, " to send them as large a number of horses*> as they could possibly procure." They busied them­selves in collecting materials for circumvallation, suchas bricks and iron, and all other necessary stores; beingdetermined to carry on the war with vigour on the firstapproach of spring. The embassadors, who from Syracuse were sent toCorinth and Lacedæmon, endeavoured in their passageto prevail with the Italians " not to look with uncon-** cern on the Athenian proceedings, since they also** were equally involved in the danger." But, whenarrived at Corinth, they were admitted to an audience,in which they insisted on a speedy supply, upon theplea of consanguinity; and the Corinthians came atonce to a resolution, by way of precedent to others,that, " with all possible ardour, they would join in their defence." They even appointed an embassy oftheir own to accompany them to Lacedæmon, whoseinstructions were to second them in soliciting the Lacedæ­monians