OCR Output 288 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. the wide circumference, Narses assigned to himself, andto each of his lieutenants, a real or a feigned attack,while he silently marked the place of easy and unguard­ed entrance. Neither the fortifications of Hadrian'smole, nor of the port, could long delay the progress ofthe conqueror; and Justinian once more received thekeys of Rome, which, under his reign, had been fivetimes taken and recovered.'' But the deliverance ofRome was the last calamity of the Roman people. Thebarbarian allies of Narses too frequently confounded theprivileges of peace and war: the despair of the flyingGoths found some consolation in sanguinary revenge:and three hundred youths of the noblest families, whohad been sent as hostages beyond the Po, were inhu­manly slain by the successor of Totila. The fate of thesenate suggests an awful lesson of the vicissitude of hu­man affairs. Of the senators whom Totila had banishedfrom their country, some were rescued by an officer ofBelisarius, and transported from Campania to Sicily;while others were too guilty to confide in the clemencyof Justinian, or too poor to provide horses for their es­cape to the sea-shore. Their brethren languished fiveyears in a state of indigence and exile: the victory of1 Narses revived their hopes; but their premature re­turn to the metropolis was prevented by the furiousGoths; and all the fortresses of Campania werestained with patricianr blood. After a period of thir­teen centuries, the institution of Romulus expired; andif the nobles of Rome still assumed the title of sena­tors, few subsequent traces can be discovered of a pub­lic council, or constitutional order. Ascend six hun­dred years, and contemplate the kings of the earth soli- 1 Em rcunv gac-iMiwroc to m/iirrm iaX». In the year 536 by Belisarius, in 546by Totila, in 547 by Belisarius, in 549 by Totila, and in 552 by Narses. Maltretnahad inadvertently translated sextum; a mistake which he afterward retracts : bnt themischief was done; and Cousin, with a train of French and Latin readers, hare falleninto the snare. r Compare two passages of Procopios, (lib. 3. c. 26. lib. 4. c. 24.) which, withsome collateral hints from Marcellinus and Joruandes, illustrate the state of the ex­piring senate.