OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 299 tachment to the Carthaginians, which they had formedduring the war, and in consequence, swelling with re­sentment. The state was to employ during that yearsix Roman legions. 9. In the midst of the preparations for war ambassa­dors came from king Ptolemy, with the following mes­sage :—that' the Athenians had petitioned the king foraid against Philip; but that although they were theircommon allies, yet the king would not, without thedirection of the Roman people, send either fleet orarmy into Greece, for the purpose of defending or at­tacking any person: that he would remain quiet in hiskingdom, if the Romans were at leisure to protect theirallies; or, if more agreeable to them to be at rest,would himself send such aid as should effectually se­cure Athens against Philip.' Thanks were returnedto the king by the senate, and this answer:—that ' itwas the intention of the Roman people to protect theirallies: that if they should have occasion for any assist­ance towards carrying on the war, they would acquaintthe king; and that they were fully sensible that, in thepower of his kingdom, their state had a sure and faith­ful resource.' Presents were then, by order of thesenate, sent to the ambassadors, of five thousand asses ito each. While the consuls were employed in levyingtroops, and making other necessary preparations, thepeople, prone to religious observances, especially atthe beginning of new wars, after supplications had beenalready performed, and prayers offered up at all theshrines, lest any thing should be omitted that had everbeen practised, ordered that the consul who was tohave the province of Macedonia should vow games,and a present to Jove. Licinius, the chief pontiff, oc­casioned some delay in the performance of it, allegingthat ' he could not properly frame the vow, unless themoney to discharge it were specified: for as the sumto be named could not be applied to the uses of thewar, it should be immediately set apart, and not to be > 16(. 2s. Id.