OCR Output 168 LIVY. own prowess: so that the Roman troops in the vanwould not have been able to support the contest hadnot the second line, by the consul's order, comeup into the place of the first. These fresh troopschecked the progress of the Samnites, who had nowbegan to gain ground ; and, at this seasonable juncture,their comrades appearing suddenly on the mountains,and raising a shout, occasioned in the Samnites a fearof greater danger than really threatened them: Fabiuscalled out aloud that his colleague Decius was ap­proaching ; on which all the soldiers, elated with joy,repeated eagerly that the other consul was come, thelegions were arrived! This artifice, while it produceda happy effect on the Romans, filled the Samnites withsuch dismay, that they thought of nothing but flight;for they dreaded above all things, lest, fatigued as theywere, they should be overpowered by another armyfresh and unhurt. As they dispersed themselves onevery side, there was less effusion of blood than mighthave been expected, considering the completeness ofthe victory. There were three thousand four hundredslain ; about three hundred and thirty made prisoners,and twenty-three military standards taken. 15. The Apulians would have joined their forces tothe Samnites before this battle had not the consul,Publius Decius, encamped in their neighborhood atMaleventum; and, finding means to bring them to anengagement, put them to the rout. Here, likewise,there was more of flight than of bloodshed. Two thou­sand of the Apulians were slain ; but Decius, despisingsuch an enemy, led his legions into Samnium. Therethe two consular armies, overrunning every part of thecountry during the space of five months, laid it intirelywaste. There were in Samnium forty-five places whereDecius, and eighty-six where the other consul, en­camped. Nor did they leave traces only of havingbeen there, as ramparts and trenches, but other dread­ful mementos of it—general desolation and regions de­populated. Fabius also took the city of Cimetre, wherehe made prisoners two thousand four hundred soldiers;