OCR Output 392 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. When they had notified their revolt to him, Brasidas passedover to Scione by night. A party of his friends sailed be­fore him in a trireme, and he followed at some distance in afly-boat, to the end that if he should fall in with any vessellarger than this boat, the trireme might make head againsther; but if another trireme of equal strength should comeup to them, he judged she would neglect his smaller boat,and would attack the ship, which would give him time toComplete his passage in security. When he was safe landed, and had convened an asscm-bly of the Scioneans, he harangued them as had done beforeat Acanthus and Torone. But he added farther that " they" were a people most deserving of applause, since though" the communication with the Pallene, as being an isthmus," was cut off by the Athenians who were masters of Poti-" daea, and they were by this means become islanders to all" intents and purposes, yet they had, without prior solicita-" tion, advanced boldly towards liberty, nor could bear to"lie in cowardly inactivity till necessity forced them to" such measures as tended to their manifest welfare. This"was ample proof that they were ready to undergo any" other the greatest perils, to obtain the wished-for settle-" ment of their State. He therefore regarded them, as in" truth the most gallant friends of the Lacediemonians, and" would in all respects do proper honour to their worth." The Scioneans were elevated by these handsome com­mendations. All of them became full of spirits, not eventhose excepted to whom the prior steps had been by nomeans agreeable. They chearfully determined to sustain allfuture war, and in every shape gave Brasidas honourableentertainment. By public vote they placed upon his heada golden crown as the deliverer of Greece, whilst everysingle Scionean was busy in adorning him with ribands,and caressing him like a victor in the solemn games. Hisstay at present was short; he only placed a small party in