OCR Output 6(3 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. out. Then did -Mundus leap out, ('for he was hidden therein),and did not fail of enjoying her, who was at his service all thenight long, as supposing he was the god ; and when he was goneaway, which was before those priests who knew nothing ofthis stratagem were stirring, Paulina came early to her husband,and told him how the god Anubis had appeared to her. Amongher friends, also, she declared how great a value she put uponthis favour, who partly disbelieved the thing, when they reflect足ed on its nature, and partly were amazed at it, as having nopretence for not believing it, when they considered the modestyand the dignity of the. person. But now, on the third day afterwhat had been done, Mundus met Paulina, and said, *' Nay," Paulina, thou hast saved me two hundred thousand drachmae,f which sum thou mightest have added to thy own family ; yet" hast thou not failed to be at my service in the manner I invi-" ted thee. As for the reproaphes thou hast laid upon Mundus," I value not the business of names ; but I rejoice in the plea-*' sure I reaped by what I did, while I took to myself the" name of Anubis." When he had said this, he went his way.But now she began to come to the sense of the grossness ofwhat she had done, and rent her garments, and told her husbandof the horrid nature of this wicked contrivance, and prayedhim not to neglect to assist her in this case. So he discoveredthe fact to the emperor; whereupon Tiberius inquired into thematter thoroughly, by examining the priests about it, and or足dered them to be crucified, as well as Ide, who was the occasionof their perdition, and who had contrived the whole matter,which was so injurious to the woman. He also demolished thetemple of Isis, and gave order that her statue should be throwninto the river Tiber ; while he only banished Mundus, but didno more to him, because he supposed that what crime he hadcommitted was done out of the passion of love. And thesewere the circumstances which concerned the temple of Isis, andthe injuries occasioned by her priests. I now return to the re足lation of what happened about this time to the Jews at Rome,as I formerly told you I would. 5. There was a man who was a Jew, but had been driven a-way from his own country by an accusation laid against him fortransgressing their laws, and by the fear he was under of punish足ment for the same ; but in all respects a wicked man. He, thenliving at Rome, professed to instruct men in the wisdom of thelaws of Moses. He procured also three other men, entirely ofthe same character with himself to be his partners. These menpersuaded Fulvia, a woman of great dignity, and one that had- - embraced