OCR Output B.V1I. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. tlf been inlarged, whilst their annual revenue was constant­ly decreasing. Unwilling, therefore, in the present ebb of their trea­sures, to defray the charge of this body of Thracians,who came too late for Demosthenes, they sent themback to their own country with all possible haste. Dii-trephes was the person pitched upon to conduct themhome; and was instructed, that, " in the passage, (for'* they were to go through theEuripus,) he should em-"ploy them, if opportunity offered, against the ene-** my." He landed therefore near Tanagra, and in a-hurrying manner carried off a booty from thence. A-bout the shut of evening he also crossed the Euripusfrom Chalcis of Eubœa; and, having landed his Thra­cians in Bœotia, led them against: Mycalessus. His de­sign was not discovered that night, though he halted atthe temple of Mercury, which is distant from Mycales­sus but * sixteen stadia at most. But, early the nextmorning he assaulted this city, which is of large extent:He carries it on the first attack, as there was no guardto resist him, and the inhabitants could never have ima­gined that a maritime body would have marched so farinto the country to make attempts upon them. Thewall, besides, was weak; in some places it was fallen,and the remaining part of it was low; and the gates,from too great a considence of security, had been left o-pen. No sooner were the Thracians broke into Myca­lessus, than they gutted both houses and temples; theymassacred the inhabitants, shewing no regard to eitherold-age or youth, but venting their fury on all thatcame in their way; they butchered even the women andthe children; nay, all the labouring cattle, and everycreature that had life which came before their eyes: Forthe Thracians, when once their fury is inflamed, are asinsatiable of blood as any other the greatest savages inthe barbarian world. On this occasion the confusionwas terrible, and every ghastly method of destruction • More thin a mile and a halt".