OCR Output 392 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV CHAP. LVI. The Consuls offended with the Senate for proposing aDictator. The Tribunes refuse to interfere. ./\Sthe commons had prevailed in the first instance inobtaining the comitia they had insisted on, so in theevent ot' the Comitia, the senate prevailed in their turn.For, contrary to all expectation, three Patricians, C. Ju­lius Julus, Publius Cornelius CQSSuS, and C. ServiliusAhala were elected military tribunes with consular pow­er. It is said, that the Patricians had recourse to a stra­tagem, with which the Icilii reproached them at that ve­ry time, in setting up a number of low fellows to .appearas candidates with men of the first merit; and, that thepeople, ashamed of the tattered appearance made bysome of them, rejected the Plebeian candidates altoge­ther. Whether it was, that the hopes of the 3L(\ui audVolsci were revived from the circumstance of their hav­ing been able to defend the fortress of Carventum, or iftheir resentment was raised by the loss of the garrisonof Verrugo, advices were brought that they were mak­ing extraoidinary preparations for war, and that the Ao-tiates were at the head of the confederacy, who had am­bassadors making the circuit of tlieir different courts, re.monstrating against them as a body of poltroons, who,whilst they were skulking within their walls, suffered theRomans , the year before, to ravage their country atpleasure, and cut in pieces the garrison of Verugo.That hostile armies were not only stnt against them, butcolonies planted in their country; and, that the Roman)not content with a dividend of their subject among them­selves, had taken Ferentinurn from them, and given it ina present to the Hernici. The resentment of the people being, by these re­proaches, screwed up to the highest pitch, wherever theywent, the youth were very forward to enlist. Where­fore the youth of all the confederate nations having ren­dezvoused at Antium, there they encamped and waitedfor the enemy. When advices of these motions werecarried to Rome, and greatly' exaggerated in the rela­