OCR Output 232 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. ally of Drusus and altogether one of the most moderate andjudicious of the Optimates.The Italians Amidst the vehement ferment, which this law and theand Drusus. numerous processes arising out of it called forth throughoutItaly, the star of hope once more appeared to arise for theItalians in the person of Marcus Drusus. That which hadbeen deemed almost impossible—that a conservative shouldtake up the reforming ideas of the Gracchi, and should be­come the champion of equal rights forthe Italians—had never­theless occurred; a man of the high aristocracy had resolvedto emancipate the Italians from the Sicilian Straits to theAlps and the government at one and the same time, and toapply all his earnest zeal, all his thorough devotedness tothese generous plans of reform. "Whether he actually, aswas reported, placed himself at the head of a secret league,whose threads ramified through Italy and whose membersbound themselves by an oath* to stand by each other forDrusus and for the common cause, cannot be ascertained;but, even if he did not lend himself to acts so dangerous andin fact unwarrantable for a Roman magistrate, yet it is cer­tain that he did not keep to mere general promises, and thatdangerous connections were formed in his name, althoughperhaps without his consent or against his will. "With joythe Italians heard that Drusus had carried his first proposalswith the consent of the great majority of the senate; withstill greater joy all the communities of Italy celebrated notlong afterwards the recovery of the tribune, who had beensuddenly attacked by severe illness. But as Drusus's fur- * The form of oath is preserved (in Diodor. Vat. p. 118); it runs thus: ii Iswear by the Capitoline Jupiter and by the Roman Vesta and by the hereditaryMars and by the generative Sun and by the nourishing Earth and by thedivine founders and enlargers of the City of Rome, that those shall be myfriends and those shall be my foes, who are friends or foes to*Drusus; alsothat I will spare neither mine own life nor the life of my children or of myparents, except in so far as it is for the good of Drusus and those who sharethis oath. But if I should become a burgess by the law of Drusus, I willesteem Rome as my home and Drusus as the greatest of my benefactors. Ishall tender this oath to as many of my fellow-citizens as I can; and if Iswear truly, may it fere with me well; if I swear falsely, may it fare withme ill." But we shall do well to employ this account with caution; it isderived either from the speeches delivered against Drusus by Philippus (whi< hseems to be indicated by the absurd title "oath of Philippus " prefixed bv theextractor of the formula) or at best from the documents of criminal proceduresubsequently drawn up respecting this conspiracy in Rome; and even on thelatter hypothesis it remains questionable, whether this form of oath was elicitedfrom the accused or imputed to them in the inquiry.