OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 461 honesty of life asserts itself in antagonism to the greatBabel of mingled tongues and corrupt morals. The as­piration of the Scipionic circle after literary correctness,especially in point of language, finds critically its mostfinished and most gifted representative in Lucilius. Hededicated his very first book to Lucius Stilo the fouuder ofRoman philology (P. 442), and designated as the public for'which he wrote not the cultivated circles of pure and clas­sical speech, but the Tarentines, the Bruttians, the Siculi,or in other words the half-Greeks of Italy, whose Latincertainly might well require a corrective. Whole books ofhis poems are occupied with the settlement of Latin ortho­graphy and prosody, with the combating of Praenestine,Sabine, Etruscan provincialisms, with the exposure ofcurrent solecisms; along with which, however, the poet byno means forgets to ridicule the insipidly systematic Isocra-tean purism of words and phrases,* and even to reproach hisfriend Scipio in serious jest with the exclusive fineness ofhis languagcf But the poet inculcates purity of morals inpublic and private life far more earnestly than he preachespure and simple Latinity. Tor this his position gave himpeculiar advantages. Although by descent, estate, andculture on a level with the noble Romans of his time andpossessor of a handsome house in the capital, he was yetnot a Roman burgess, but a Latin; even his positiontowards Scipio, under whom he had served in his earlyyouth during the Numantine war, and in whose house hewas a frequent visitor, may be connected with the fact, thatScipio stood in varied relations to the Latins and was theirpatron in the political feuds of the time (P. 103). He wasthus precluded from a public life, and he disdained thecareer of a speculator—he had no desire, as he once said, tocease to be Lucilius in order to become an Asiatic revenue-farmer. So he lived in the sultry age of the Gracchan re­forms and the agitations preceding the Social war, frequent­ing the palaces and villas of the Roman grandees and yet notexactly their client, at once immersed in the strife of political * Quam lepide \ejfis compostm tit tessemla omnesArte pavimenio tdqne emblem ite vermiculato! t The poet advises him— Quofacetior videare et scire plus quam ceteri— to say not pertatsum but pertimim.