OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 281 have kept them shut up at Eryx until they perishedwith hunger, the severest suffering that man can un­dergo ; we might have carried over our victorious fleetto Africa; and in the space of a few days, without op­position, have demolished Carthage. At tbeir suppli­cations we granted pardon: we gave them liberty todepart from the place where we held them confined:after conquering them we made peace with them: af­terwards, when they were distressed by a war in Africa,we considered them as infilled to our protection. Inreturn for these favors they follow the lead of a hot-brained youth, and come to invade our country. Iwish that on our side this contest was merely forglory, and not for safety. We are not to fight aboutthe possession of Sicily and Sardinia, the subjects ofthe former dispute, but in defence of Italy ; neither isthere another army behind us, which, if we fail toconquer, might withstand the enemy ; nor are thereother Alps, during his passage over which new forcesmight be procured. Here, soldiers, we must make astand, as if we were fighting under the walls of Rome.Let every one persuade himself that he is protectingwith his arms, not only his own person, but his wife,and liis infant children. Nor let him consider solelyhis own domestic concerns, but frequently reflect thatthe senate and people of Rome look for safety at ourhands ; that our strength, and our courage, are now todetermine what will henceforth be the condition ofthat city and of the Roman empire.' 42. Thus, on the side of the Romans, was the con­sul employed. Hannibal, choosing to rouse the cou­rage of his soldiers by the exhibition of facts bef ore hemade use of words, formed his troops in a circle, andthen placed in the middle the prisoners taken on themountains, bound in fetters; when, such arms as areused by the Gauls being thrown at their feet, he or­dered an interpreter to ask whether any of them werewilling, on the condition of being released from bonds,—and, in case of proving victorious, of receiving each