OCR Output Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 313 away: * and as the houses were full of armed men, and manyof them ran as far as the tops of the houses, he got them underhis power, and pulled down the roofs of the houses, and saw thelower rooms full of soldiers that were caught, and lay all on aheap: so they threw stones down upon them as they lay piledone upon another, and thereby killed them: nor was there amore frightful spectacle in all the war than this, where beyondthe walls an immense multitude of dead men lay heaped one up­on another. This action it was which chiefly broke the spiritsof the enemy, who expected now what would come, for thereappeared a mighty number of people that came from places fardistant, that were now about the village, but then ran away;and had it not been for the depth of winter, which then re­strained them, the king's army had presently gone to Jerusalem,as being very courageous at this good success, and the wholework had been done immediately, for Antigonus was alreadylooking about how he might fly away, and leave the city. 13. At this time the king gave order that the soldiers shouldgo to supper, for it was late at night, while he went into achamber to use the bath, for he was very weary: and here itwas that he was in the greatest danger, which yet, by God'sprovidence, he escaped; for as he was naked, and had but oneservant that followed him, to be with him while he was bathingin an inner room, certain of the enemy, who were in their ar­mour, and had fled thither out of fear, were then in the place;and as he was bathing, the first of them came out with his na­ked sword drawn, and went out at the doors, and after him asecond and third, armed in like manner, and were under sucha consternation, that they did no hurt to the king, and thoughtthemselves to have come off7 very well in suffering no harmthemselves, in their getting out of the house. However, on thenext day, he cut oft' the head of Pappus, for he was alreadyslain, and sent it to Pheroras, as a punishment of what theirbrother had suffered by his means, for he was the man that slewhim with his own hand. 14. When the rigour of winter was over, Herod removed hisarmy, and came near to Jerusalem, and pitched his camp hardby the city. Now this was the third year since he had beenmade king at Rome; and as he removed his camp, and camenear that part of the wall where it could be most easily assaulted, * It may be worth our observation here, that these soldiers of Herod's couldnot have gotten upon the tops of these houses, "which were full of enemies, in or­der to pull up the upper floors, and destroy them beneath, but on ladders fromthe outside; which illustrates some texts in the New Testament, by which it ap­pears that men used to ascend thither by ladders on the euuides. See Mai t. xxiv'17. Mark xiii. 15. Luke v. 13. xvii. 31.