OCR Output AM. 103.] 487 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sand. As for the rest, they were part of themtaken captives; and the other part ran awayto their own country. After this victory Ptolemy overran all thecountry; and when night came on, he abodein certain villages of Judea, where he com­manded his soldiers to strangle the womenand children, and to cut them in pieces, andto cast them into boiling caldrons, and then todevour their limbs, as sacrifices. This com­mandment was given, that such as fled fromthe battle, and came to them, might supposetheir enemies were cannibals, and might onthat account be still more terrified at them,upon such a sight. And both Strabo andNicolaus of Damascus affirm, that they usedthese people after this manner. Ptolemy alsotook Ptolemais by force. CHAP. XIII. OF Alexander's expedition against ccelesyria; his DESTRUCTION OF THE CITY GAZA, AND OF MANY THOU­SANDS OF JEWS THAT REBELLED AGAINST HIM. ALSOCONCERNING ANTIOCHUS GRYPUS, SELEUCUS, ANTIOCHUSCYZICENUS, ANTIOCHUS PIUS, AND OTHERS. WHEN Cleopatra saw* that her son wasgrown great, and laid Judea waste,without disturbance, and had gotten the cityof Gaza under his- power, Bhe resolved nolonger to overlook what he did, when he wasalmost at her gates; and she concluded thatnow he was so much stronger than before, hewould be very desirous of the dominion overthe Egyptians. But she immediately marchedagainst him with a fleet at sea, and an armyoi foot at land; and made "fChelcias and Ana­nias the Jews, generals of her whole army;while she sent the greatest part of her riches,with her grandchildren, and her testament,to the people of JCos. Cleopatra also orderedher son Alexander to sail with a great fleetto Phoenicia; and when that country had re­volted, she came to Ptolemais; and becausethe people of Ptolemais did not receive her,she besieged the city. But Ptolemy went outof Syria, and hastened into Egypt; supposingthat he should find it destitute of an army,and soon take it; though he failed of his hopes. At this time Chelcias, one of Cleopatra'sgenerals, happened to die in Coslesyria; ashe was in pursuit of Ptolemy. When Cleopatra heard of her son's attempt,and that his Egyptian expedition did not suc­ceed, according to his expectations, she sentthither|| part of her army, and drove him outof that country. So when he was returnedout of Egypt, he abode, during the winter, atGaza. In which time Cleopatra took thegarrison that was in Ptolemais by siege; aswell as the city. And when Alexander cameto her he gave her presents, and such marksof respect as were but proper; since underthe miseries he endured by Ptolemy he hadno other refuge but her. Now there weresome of her friends who persuaded her toseize Alexander, and to overrun and takepossession of the country; and not to sit stilland see such a multitude of brave Jews sub­ject to one man. But Ananias's counsel wascontrary to theirs: who said, that she woulddo an unjust action if she deprived a man thatwas her ally of that authority which belongedto him; and this a man who is related to us."For," said he, " I would not have thee igno­rant of this, that what injustice thou doest tohim will make all that are Jews to be thyenemies." This desire of Ananias's Cleopatracomplied with, and did no injury to Alexander;but made a league of mutual assistance withhim, at Scythopolis, a city of Coslesyria. So when Alexander was delivered from thefear he was in of Ptolemy, he presently madean expedition against Coelesyria. He thentook Gadara, after a siege often months. Hetook also Amathus, a very strong fortress be­longing to the inhabitants above Jordan;where Theodorus, the son of Zeno, had hischief treasure; and what he esteemed mostprecious. This Zeno fell unexpectedly uponthe Jews, and slew ten thousand of them; andseized upon Alexander's baggage. Yet didnot this misfortune terrify Alexander; but hemade an expedition upon the maritime partsof the country, Raphia, and Athedon, (thename of which king Herod afterward changedto Agrippias,) and took even that by force: * An. 103. \ The sons of Onias IV. that high-priest who built thetemple in Egypt. See Book XIII. chap. 3 and 10. J This city or island Cos, is not that remote island inthe Egean sea, famous for the birth of the great Hippo- crates; but a city or island of the same name adjoining toEgypt; mentioned both by Stephanus and Ptolemy; asDr. Hudson informs us. Of which Cos, and the treasuresthere laid up by Cleopatra and the Jews, see XIV. 7.II An. 102.