OCR Output IASPIS. IATRUS. 5 coast of Pantos, 130 stadia to the north-east of IVletnoninm; it is the most projecting cape on thatroan, and forms the terminating point of the chainof Mount Paryadres. It was believed to have re­wired its name from the fact that Jason had landedthere. (Strab. xii. p. M8; Arrian, Peripl. p. 17;Anonym. Peripl. p. 11; Ptol. v. 6. § 4 ; Xenoph.A nab. vi. 2. § 1, who calls it 'Iwrovia S«t ?'j .) Itstill bears the name Jasoon, though it is more com­monly railed Cape Bona or Vona, from a town ofthe same name. (Hamilton, Researches, vol. i. p.269.) The Astoria, called a Greek acropolis byScvlax (p. 33), is probably no other than the Jaso-mum. [I.. S.] IASPIS. [Coxtbstakia.]IASSII ('IoV<rioi), mentioned by Ptolemy as apopulation of Upper Pannonia (ii. 14. § 2). Pliny'sform of the name (iii. 25) is Iari. He places themon the Drare. [R.G. L.] IASSUS, or IASUS {laaaoi, or 'Ioffot: Kth.°\ojbo*v*), a town of Caria, situated on a smallinland close to the north coast of the Iasian bay,which derives its name from Iassus. The town issaid to have been founded at an unknown period byArgive colonists ; but as they had sustained severelosses in a war with the native Carians, they invitedthe son of Neleus, who had previously fonnded Mi­letus, to come to their assistance. The town appearsen that occasion to have received additional settlers.(Polyb. xvi. 12.) The town, which appears to have•cenpied the whole of the little island, had only tenstadia in circumference; but it nevertheless acquiredgreat wealth (Thucyd. viii. 28), from its fisheries andtrade in fish (Strab. xiv. p. 658). After the Si­cilian expedition of the Athenians, during the Pelo-ponnesian war, Iassus was attacked by the Lace­daemonians and their allies; it was governed at thetime by Amorges, a Persian chief, who had revoltedfrom Darius. It was taken by the Lacedaemonians,who captured Amorges, and delivered him up toTisaaphernes. The town itself was destroyed on thatoccasion; but must have been rebuilt, for we after­wards find it besieged by the last Philip of Macedonia,who, however, was compelled by the Romans to re­store it to Ptolemy of Egypt. (Polyb. xvii. 2; Liv.xxxii. 33; comp. Ptol. v. 2. § 9; Plin. v. 29; Stad.Mar. Magn. §§ 274, 275; Hierocl. p. 689.) Themountains in the neighbourhood of Iassus furnisheda beautiful kind of marble, of a blood-red and lividwhite colour, which was used by the ancients forornamental purposes. (Paul. Silent. Eephr. S. Soph.ii. 213.) Near the town was a sanctuary of Hestias,with a statue of the goddess, which, though stand­ing in the open air, was believed never to be touchedby the rain. (Polyb. xvi. 12.) The same story isrelated, by Strabo, of a temple of Artemis in thesame neighbourhood. Iassus, as a celebrated fish-in; place, is alluded to by Athenaens (iii. p. 105,xiiL p. 606). The place is still existing, under thename of Asiem or Aejn Kalessi. Chandler (Tru­nk in As. Mm. p. 226) relates that the island onwbich the town was built is now united to the main- coia OF IASUS IX C.U'.IA. land by a small isthmus. Part of the city wallsstill exist, and are of a regular, solid, and handsomestructure. In the side of the rock a theatre withmany rows of seats Btill remains, and several in­scriptions and coins have been found there. (Comp.Spon and Wheler, Voyages, vol. i. p. 361.) A second town of the name of Iassus existed inCappadocia or Armenia Minor (Ptol. v. 7. § 6), onthe north-east of Zoropassus. [L. 3.] IASTAE ('ISotcu, Ptol. vi. 12), a Scythian tribe,whose position must be sought for in the neighbour­hood of the river Iastns. [E. B. J.] IASTUS ("Iootoj), a river which, according toPtolemy (vi. 12), was, like the Polytimctus (Kohik),an affluent of the Caspian basin, and should in factbe considered as such in the sense given to a denomi­nation which at that time embraced a vast and com •plicated hydraulic system. [Jaxartes.] VonHumboldt (^4»»e Cenlrate, vol. ii. p. 263) has iden­tified it with the Kizil-Deria, the dry bed of whichmay be traced on the barren wastes of Kizil Kvmnin W. Turkistan. It is no unusual circumstance inthe sandy steppes of N. Asia for rivers to changetheir course, or even entirely to disappear. Thusthe Kizii'Deria, which was known to geographerstill the commencement of this century, no longerexists. (Comp. Levohine, Hordes et Steppes daKirghiz Kazaks, p. 456.) [E. B. J.] IASTUS, a river mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 14.§2) as falling into the Caspian between the Jaikand the Oxus. It is only safe to call it one of thenumerous rivers of Independent Tartary. [R. G. L.l IASUS. [Okum.] IATII ('Ianoi, Ptol. vi. 12. § 4), a people in thenorthern part of Sogdiana. They are also mentionedby Pliny (vi. 16. s. 18); but nothing certain is knownof their real position. [V.] IATINUM ('Idrii'oi'), according to Ptolemy (ii.8. § 15) the city of the Meldi, a [eople of GalliaLuplunensis. It is supposed to be the same placeas tbe Fixtuinum of the Table [Fixtuinum], andto be represented by the town of Meaux on theMarne. Walckenaer, who trusts more to the accu­racy of the distances in the Table than we safelycan do, says that the place Fixtuinum has not inthe Table the usual mark which designates a capitaltown, and that the measures do not carry the posi­tion of Fixtuinum as far as Meaux, but only as furas Monibout. He conjectures that the word Fix­tuinum may be a corruption of Fines Iatinorum, andaccordingly must be a place on the boundary of thelittle community of the Meldi. This conjecturemight be good, if the name of the people was Iatini,and not Meldi. [G. L.] JATRIPPA. [Latiiriita.] IATRA or IATRUM ('IotooV), a town in Moesia,situated at the point where the river Iatrus or Iautrusempties itself into the Danube, a few miles to theeast of Ad Novas. (Procop. de Aed. iv. 7 ; Theo-phylact. vii. 2 ; Ifotit. Imp. 29, where it is errone­ously called Latra ; Geogr. Rav.. iv. 7, where, as intbe Peut. Tab., it bears the name Laton.) [L. S.] IATRUS (in the Pent Tab. Iantkus), a rivertraversing the central part of Moesia. It has itssources in Mount Haemus, and, having in its courseto the north received the waters of several tributaries,falls into the Danube close by the town of latra.(Plin. iii. 29, where the common reading is Ieterus;Jornand. Get. 18; Geogr. Rav. iv. 7.) It is probablythe some as tbe Athrys ("Afyt/s) mentioned by He­rodotus (iv.4D). Its modern name is /antra. [L.S.1 u 3