OCR Output AM. 1741.] 61 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When Jacob was come to the king, andhad saluted him, and wished all prosperity tohis government, Pharaoh asked how old hewas? Upon whose answer, that he was ahundred and thirty years old, he admiredJacob on account of the length of his life.And when he had added, that still he hadnot lived so long as his fore-fathers, he gavehim leave to live with his children in Heli-opolis; for in that city the king's shepherdshad their pasturage. The famine now increased among theEgyptians, and this heavy judgment grewmore oppressive to them, because neither didthe river overflow the ground, for it did notrise to its former height; nor did God sendrain* upon it . Nor did they, indeed, makethe least provisions for themselves, so igno­rant were they what was to be done. ButJoseph sold them corn for their money; andwhen their money failed them, they boughtcorn with their cattle and their slaves; and ifany of them had a small piece of land, theygave up that to purchase them food. By whichmeans the king became the owner of all theirsubstance; and they were removed some toone place, and some to another; that so thepossession of their country might be firmlyassured to the king; excepting the lands ofthe priests; for their country continued stillin their own possession. And indeed thissore famine made their minds as well as theirbodies slaves; and at length compelled themto procure a sufficiency of food by such dis­honourable means. But when this miseryceased, and the river overflowed the ground,and the earth brought forth its fruits plenti­fully, Joseph came to every city, and gatheredthe people thereto belonging together, andgave them back entirely the land which, bytheir own consent, the king might have pos- Whereas Bishop Cumberland has shewn, that they ratherhated such Phoenician or Canaanite shepherds as had longenslaved the Egyptians of old time. See his Sanchoniath,page 361—362. * Reland here puts the question, how Josephus could"complain of its not raining in Egypt during this famine,while the ancients affirm that it never does naturally rainthere? His answer is, that when the ancients deny thatit rains in Egypt, they only mean the upper Egypt, abovethe Delta, which is called Egypt in the strictest sense;hut that in Delta, and consequently in the lower Egyptadjoining to it, it did not hold, and still does rain sometimes.See the note on III. 1. t Josephus suppose* that Joseph now restored the sessed alone, and alone enjoyed the fruits ofit. He also exhorted them to look on it astheir own possession; to resume their laboursof husbandry with cheerfulness; and to payas a tribute to the crown, the fifth party ofthe fruits of the land which the king, when itwas his own, restored to them. 1 hese menrejoiced upon their becoming unexpectedlyowners of their land, and diligently observedwhat was enjoined them. And by this meansJoseph procured to himself a greater autho­rity among the Egyptians, and a greater loveto the king from them. Now this law, thatthey should pay the fifth part of their fruitsas tribute, continued until the time of theirlater kings. CHAP. VIII. OF THE DEATH OF JACOB AND JOSEPH. WHEN Jacob had lived seventeen yearsin Egypt, he fell into a disease, anddied in the presence of his sons; but not tillhe had made his prayers for their prosperity;and had foretold prophetically how every oneof them was to dwell in the land of Canaan.But this happened many years afterwards.He also enlargedJ upon the praises of Joseph;how he had not remembered the evil doingsof his brethren to their disadvantage: nay,on the contrary, was kind to them; bestowingupon them so many benefits, as seldom arebestowed on men's own benefactors. Hethen commanded his own sons that theyshould admit Joseph's sons, Ephraim andManasseh, into their number; and divide theland of Canaan in common with them; con­cerning whom we shall treat hereafter. How­ever, he made it his request, that he mightbe buried at Hebron. So he died; when hehad lived a hundred and forty-seven years ;|| Egyptians their lands again, upon the payment of a fifthpart as tribute. It seems to me rather that the land wasnow considered as Pharaoh's; and this fifth part as itsrent, to be paid to him, as he was their landlord, and theyhis tenants; and that the lands were not properly restored,and this fifth part reserved as a tribute only, till the daysof Sesostris. J As to this encomium upon Joseph, as preparatory toJacob's adopting Ephraim and Manasseh into his ownfamily, and to be admitted into his two tribes, which Jose­phus here mentions; all our copies of Gen. omit it, cxlviii. nor do we know whence he took it; or whether itbe his own embellishment. I I Gen xlvii 28.