OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79 respective dignity and defence. The ministers and chap.generals, who Were placed about their persons, were xv.such as Constantine could trust to assist, and even tocontrol, these youthful sovereigns in the exercise oftheir delegated power. As they advanced in yearsand experience, the limits of their authority were in­sensibly enlarged: but the emperor always reservedfor himself the title of Augustus; and while heshowed the Ccesars to the armies and provinces, hemaintained every part of the empire in equal obedi­ence to its supreme head*. The tranquillity of thelast fourteen years of his reign was scarcely inter­rupted by the contemptible insurrection of a camel-driver in the island of Cyprus, or by the active partwhich the policy of Constantine engaged him toassume in the wars of the Goths and Sarmatians. Among the different branches of the human race, Manners ofthe Sarmatians form a very remarkable shade; as they ^anf."""""seem to unite the manners of the Asiatic barbarianswith the figure and complexion of the ancient inha­bitants of Europe. According to the various accidentsof peace and war, of alliance or conquest, the Sar­matians were sometimes confined to the banks of theTanais; and they sometimes spread themselves overthe immense plains which lie between the Vistula andthe Volga. The care of their numerous flocks andherds, the pursuit of game, and the exercise of war,or rather of rapine, directed the vagrant motions ofthe Sarmatians. The moveable camps or cities, theordinary residence of their wives and children, con­sisted only of large waggons drawn by oxen, andcovered in the form of tents. The military strengthof the nation was composed of cavalry; and the cus­tom of their warriors, to lead in their hand one or * Eusebius (I. iv. c. 51, 52), with a design of exalting the authority and gloryof Constantine, affirms, that he divided the Roman empire as a private citizenmight have divided his patrimony. His distribution of the provinces may becollected from Eutropius, the two Victors, and the Valesian fragment.