OCR Output 246 livy. crown ; and on others of the military he conferred giftssuitable to the services which they had performed. Bythese honors conferred on him, the king's mind wassoothed, and encouraged to hope that he should soonbe in possession of the whole extent of Numidia, nowthat Syphax was removed out of his way. • 16. Scipio, sending Caius Laelius, with Syphax andthe other prisoners, to Rome, with whom went alsoambassadors from Masinissa, led back his troops toTunes, and completed the fortifications which he hadbegun some time before. The Carthaginians, who hadbeen filled with a short-lived joy, on account of theirsuccess in the attack on the Roman fleet (and which intheir then circumstances they had considered as im­portant), on hearing of the capture of Syphax, in whomthey had placed more of their hopes than in Hasdrubaland their own army, were struck with dismay, andwould listen no longer to any who advised to continuethe war; but sent, as their agents to sue for peace,thirty of the principal elders. These.compose the as­sembly of the highest dignity among them, having theprincipal control over the senate itself. Arriving atthe general's tent, they prostrated themselves, likethose who humbly fawn on kings, having learned thatmode, I suppose, from the country whence they de­rived their origin. Their discourse was suitable tosuch servile adulation, not attempting to apologise fortheir conduct, but transferring the blame on Hannibal,and the favorers of his violent measures. They im­plored pardon for their state, which bad been twiceruined by the rashness of its citizens, and would asecond time be indebted for its restoration to thegenerosity of an enemy: they observed that ' the Ro­man people sought dominion over the conquered, nottheir destruction; and declared themselves ready topay implicit obedience to any commands which their!subjugators should be pleased to impose.' Scipio toldthem that ' he had come into Africa with the expecta-ition, which had been farther encouraged by the happyfortune of his army, of carrying home conquest, no|