OCR Output 152 LIVY. years? No: with that glory which I have alreadyacquired 1 am to live and die. I stopped the career ofHannibal's conquests, that you, whose powers are nowin vigor, might be able to gain conquests over him. 41. 'As I never, in my own case, regarded the opi­nion of the world when set in competition with the ad­vantage of the state, it will be but reasonable that youpardon me, Publius Cornelius, if I do not considereven your fame in preference to the public good. Ifeither there were no war in Italy, or the enemy herewere such that a victory over him would be produc­tive of no glory, he who should attempt to retain youin Italy, notwithstanding that he consulted therein thegeneral welfare, might seem to intend, while he re­strained you from removing the war, to deprive you ofa subject of future glory. Yet Hannibal, a powerfulenemy, with an army unimpaired, maintains a footingin Italy for the fourteenth year. Would you then havereason to be dissatisfied, Publius Cornelius, with yourshare of fame, if you should in your consulate expelsuch a foe from out of Italy; a foe, who has been thecause of so much mourning, of so many calamities tous 1 In fine, should you not be content to enjoy thereputation of having finished the present Punic war,as Caius Lutatius did that of finishing the former?Unless, indeed, you will say that Hamilcar is a gene­ral more formidable than Hannibal; or that a war inAfrica is of greater importance than it would be inItaly; that a victory there, supposing it should be ourgood fortune to obtain such while you are consul,would be more profitable and illustrious than one here.Would you choose to draw away Hamilcar from Dre-panum or Eryx, rather than to expel the Carthaginiansand Hannibal out of Italy? Although you should lookwith a more partial regard on the renown which youhave acquired, than on that which you have in pros­pect, yet surely you would not pride yourself so muchin having freed Spain, as in freeing Italy. Hannibalis not yet in such a condition, that he who prefers en­gaging with another general must not evidently ap- Ik