OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 35 and carry desolation into the provinces of Gaul. TheGermans, at the same time, knew the dissensions ofthe Roman army; and, if the Rhine were once aban*.doned, stood in readiness to seize so advantageous apost. The moment was full of perplexity. To employthe auxiliary forces and the states in alliance withRome against the revolted legions, were to engagein a civil war. To proceed with rigour might be dan­gerous ; and to pacify the men with largesses, werean expedient altogether dishonourable. Grant all ornothing, the dilemma was either way big with mis­chief. After mature deliberation, letters were framedin the name of Tiberius, importing, that at the end oftwenty years the soldier should be entitled to his dis­mission ; that, after sixteen, he should be deemed aveteran, still retained in the service, but exempt fromall duty, except that of repelling the incursions of theenemy. A promise was added, that the legacies givenby Augustus should not only be paid, but increasedto double the amount. XXXVII. The forgery was suspected by the soldiers.They saw that the letter was an expedient to gaintime. They demanded immediate compliance, andaccordingly dismissions from the service were madeout by the tribunes. The payment of the money wasdeferred till the legions arrived in their winter quar­ters. The fifth and one-and-twentieth refused tostir from the camp, till Germanicus, with his ownfinances and the assistance of his friends, made upthe sum required. The first and twentieth legions,under the command of Csecina, proceeded towardsthe city of the Ubians; exhibiting, as they marched,a shameful spectacle, while they carried, amidst thecolours and the Roman eagles, the treasure extortedfrom their general. Germanicus proceeded with ex­pedition to the army on the Upper Rhine, and thererequired the oath of fidelity to the emperor. The se­cond, the thirteenth, and sixteenth legions compliedwithout hesitation. The fourteenth stood for sometime in suspense. They made no demand; but Ger­manicus ordered dismissions from ths service ta ha