OCR Output 48 INDIA. INDIA. the Erannoboas (IliraHJdvaka) and the Ganges;with some smaller states, as the Surasenae, and thetowns Mcthora and Clisohra, which were subject tothe Prasii. Southward from l'alibothnt, in the in­terior of the plain country, dwelt the Cocconagae,on the banks of the Adamas, the Sab&rae, tlie Sala-ceni, the Drillophyllitae, the Adeisathri. with theircapital Sagida (probably the present Sohagpur), si­tuated on the northern spurs of the Ymdhya, at nogreat distance from the sources of the Sonus. Be­tween the Sonus and the Ganges were the Bolin-gae. In a NW. direction, beyond the Sonus andthe Vindhya, we find a territory called Sandrabatis,and the Gymnosophistae, who appear to hare oc­cupied the country now called Sirhind, as furas the river Sulkdge, The Caspeiraei (at least inthe time of Ptolemy; see PtoL vii. 1. § 47) seem tohave extended over a considerable breadth of coun­try, as their sacred town Modara (Mdoouoa r) rwiw) was situated, apparently, at no great distancefrom the Nerbvdda, though its exact position hasnot been identified. The difficulty of identificationis much, indeed, increased by the error of reckoningwhich prevails throughout Ptolemy, who held thatthe coast of India towards the Indian Ocean was ina straight line E. and W. from Taprobane and theIndus, thereby placing Nanaguna and the Namadusin the same parallel of latitude. On the southernspurs of the Vindhya, between the Namadus andNanaguna, on the edge of the Decean, were thePhyllitae and Gondali; and to the E. of them, be­tween the BittigoM.and the riverChaberus (Cdreri),the nomad Sorae (2wpai voud&ti), with a chief townSera, at the eastern end of M. Bittigo. To thesouthward of these, on the Cbaberus and Solen, wereseveral smaller tribes, the Brachmani Magi, the Am-bastae, Bettigi or Bitti, and the Tabaasi. All the above-mentioned districts and towns ofany importance are more fully described under theirrespective names. The ancients appear to have known but little ofthe inlands which are now considered to fonn partof the East Indies, with the exception of Taprobaneor Cryltm, of which Pliny and Ptolemy have leftsome considerable notices. The reason is, that itwas not till a much later period of the world's his­tory that the Indian Archipelago was fully openedout by its commercial resources to scientific inquiry.Besides Ceylon, however, Ptolemy mentions, in itsrieighbourhood, a remarkable cluster of small islands,doubtless (as we have remarked before) those nowknown as the Ijoctadiva and Maldiva; the islandof labadius (Java), below the Chcrsonesus Aurea;and the Sntyrorum Insulae, on the same parallelwith the S. end of this Chersonesus, which mayperhaps answer to the Anamba or \atuna islands. Of the government of India, considered as a whole,comparatively little was known to the Greek writers;indeed, with the exception of occasional names ofkings, it may be asserted that tbey knew nothing E.of I'slibollira. Nor is this strange; direct connec­tion with the interior of the country ceased with thefall of the Graeco-Bactrian empire; from that periodalmost all the information about India which foundits way to the nations of the West was derivedfrom the merchants and others, who made voy­ages to the different out-ports of the CMintry. Itmay be worth while to state briefly here Borne ofthe principal rulers mentioned by the Greek andItoman writers; premising that, previous to the ad­vance of Alexander, history is on these subjects silent. Previous, indeed, to Alexander, we harenothing on which we can rely. There is no evidencethat Darius himself invaded any part of India, thougha portion of the NW. provinces of Bactria may havepaid him tribute, as stated by Herodotus. The ex­peditions of Dionysus and Hercules, and the wars ofSesostris and Semiramis in India, can be consideredas nothing more than fables too credulously recordedby Ctesias. At the time of the invasion of Alex­ander the Great, there can be no doubt that thenwas a settled monarchy in the western part of India,and his dealings with it are very clearly to be madeout In the north of the Panjdb was the town ordistrict Taxila (probably ifamiydla, or very nearit), which was ruled by a king named Taxiles; itbeing a frequent Indian custom to name the kingfrom the place he ruled over. His name in I)i<>dorus is Mophis (xvii. 86), and in Curtius, Omphis(viii. 12), which was probably the real one, and isitself of Indian origin. It appears that Alexanderleft his country as he found it. (Strah. xv. pp. 698,699, 716.) The name of Taxiles is not mentionedin any Indian author. The next ruler Alexandermet with was Porus (probably Paurara Sanscr, •change which Strabo indicates in that of Aapiauiirinto Aaoftor), with whom Taxiles had been at war.(Arrian, v. 21.) Alexander appears to have suc­ceeded in reconciling them, and to have increasedthe empire of Porus, so as to make his rule compre­hend the whole country between the Hydaspes andAcesines. (Arrian, v. 20, 21, 29.) His country isnot named in any Indian writer. Shortly afterwards,Alexander received an embassy and presents fromAbisaris (no doubt A bhisdra), whose territory, as hasbeen shown by Prof. Wilson from the Anmati ofCaihmir, must have been in the mountains in thesouthern part of that province. {Aiiat. Ret. vol.xv. p. 116.) There had been previously a war be­tween this ruler and the Malli, Oxydracae, and thepeople of the Lower Panjdb, which had ended innothing. Alexander confirmed Abisaris in the pos­session of his own territory, made Philip satrap ofthe Malli and Oxydracae, and I'ytho of the land be­tween the confluence of the Indus and Acesines andthe sea (Arrian, vi. 15); placing, at the same time,Oxyarces over the I'aropamisadae. (Arr. vi. IS.) Itmay be observed that, in the time of Ptoleiny, theCaidimirians appear to have held the whole of thePanjdb, so far as the Vindhya mountains, a portionof the southern country being, however, in the handsof the Malli and Cathaei. The same state of things prevailed for sometime after the death of Alexander, as appears bya decree of Perdiccas, mentioned in Diudorus (xviii.3), and with little material change under Anti-pater. (Diod. xviii. 39.) Indeed, the provincesremained true to the Macedonians till the com­mencement of the rule of the Prasii. when San-drocottus took up arms against the Macedoniangovernors. (Justin, xv. 4.) The origin of this re­bellion is clearly traceable. Porus was slain by Ea-daratu about B.C. 317 (Diod. xix. 14); hence 8am-drocottus must hsrc been on the throne about thetime that Seleucus took Babylon, H.C. 312. Theattempt of the Indians to recover their freedom wasprobably aided by the fact that Porus had been slainby a'Greek. Sandrocottus, as king of the Praaii(Sansc IVachya) and of the nations on the Ganges,made war with Seleucus Nicator, who penetrated farinto India. Plutarch says he ruled over all India,but this is nut likely. (Plut. Ala. 62.) It appear.