OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 473 the world itself; which, as it had once perished by the element ofwater, was destined to experience a second and a speedy destructionfrom the element of fire. In the opinion of a general conflagration,the faith of the Christian very happily coincided with the traditionof the East, the philosophy of the Stoics, and the analogy of Nature:and even the country, which had been chosen from religious motivesfor the origin and principal scene of the conflagration, was the bestadapted for that purpose by natural and physical causes; by its deepcaverns, beds of sulphur, and numerous volcanos, of which thoseof Ætna, of Vesuvius, and of Lipari, exhibit a very imperfect re­presentation. The calmest and most intrepid sceptic could not re­fuse to acknowledge, that the destruction of the present system of -the world by fire, was in itself extremely probable. The Christian,who founded his belief much less on the fallacious arguments ofreason than on the authority of tradition and the interpretationof scripture, expected it with terror and confidence as a certain andapproaching event; and as his mind was perpetually filled with thesolemn idea, he considered every disaster that happened to the em­pire as an infallible symptom of an expiring world 6;. The condemnation of the wisest and most virtuous of the pagans, The pa^anion account of their ignorance or disbelief of the divine truth, seems eteevrnai °to offend the reason and the humanity of the present age But Punisliment-the primitive church, whose faith was of a much firmer consistence,delivered over, without hesitation, to eternal torture, the far greaterpart of the human species. A charitable hope might perhaps beindulged in favour of Socrates, or some other sages of antiquity,who had consulted the light of reason before that of the gospel hadarisen 69. But it was unanimously affirmed, that those who, sincethe birth or the death os Christ, had obstinately persisted in theworship of the dæmons, neither deserved nor could expect a pardonfrom the irritated justice of the Deity. These rigid sentiments,which had been unknown to the ancient world, appear to have in- Vol. I. P p p fused