OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 95 rors totally devoid of taste for the pleasures of the understanding.Nero himself excelled, or affected to excel, in the elegant arts ofmusic and poetry; nor should we despise his pursuits, had he notconverted the pleasing relaxation of a leisure hour into the seriousbusiness and ambition of his life. But Commodus, from his earliestinfancy, discovered an aversion to whatever was rational or liberal,and a fond attachment to the amusements of the populace; thesports of the circus and amphitheatre, the combats, of gladiators*and the hunting of wild beasts. The masters in every branch oflearning, whom Marcus provided for his son, were heard with in­attention and disgust; whilst the Moors and Parthians, who taughthim to dart the javelin and to shoot with the bow, found a disciplewho delighted in his application, and soon equalled the most skil­ful of his instructors, in the steadiness of the eye, and the dexterityof the hand. The servile crowd, whose fortune depended on their master's Hunting ofvices, applauded these ignoble pursuits. The perfidious voice of .Wlldbeasts>flattery reminded him, that by exploits of the fame nature, by thedefeat of the Nemæan lion, and the slaughter of the wild boar ofErymanthus, the Grecian Hercules had acquired a place among thegods, and an immortal memory among men. They only forgotto observe, that in the first ages of society, when the fiercer animalsOften dispute with man the possession of an unsettled country, asuccessful war against those savages, is one of the most innocentand beneficial labours of heroism. In the civilized state of the Ro­man empire, the wild beasts had long since retired from the face ofmen, and the neighbourhood of populous cities. To surprise themin their solitary haunts, and to transport them, to Rome, that theymight be slain in pomp by the hand of an emperor, was an. enter­prise equally ridiculous for the prince, and oppressive for the peo­ple '°. Ignorant of these distinctions, Commodus eagerly embracedthe glorious resemblance, and styled himself (as we still read on his- medals")