OCR Output 240 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. -- .with drink at supper, till he was thereby dis­ordered. Yet did he nevertheless sleep at theking's gates, without any inclination to go tohis wife.* Upon this the king was very angryat him, and wrote to Joab, and commandedhim to punish Uriah; for he told him that hehad offended him, and he suggested to himthe manner in which he would have him fmnished, that it might not be discovered thatle was himself the author of this punishment.For he charged him to set him over againstthat part of the enemy's army where the at­tack would be most hazardous, and where hemight be deserted, and be in the greatestjeopardy; for he bade him order his fellow-soldiers to retire out of the fight. When hehad written thus, and sealed the letter withhis own seal, he gave it to Uriah, to carry itto Joab. When Joab had received it, andupon reading it understood the king's pur­pose, he set Uriah in that place where heknew the enemy would be most troublesometo them; and gave him for his partners someof the best soldiers in the army, and said, thathe would also come to their assistance withthe whole army; that, if possible, they mightbreak down some part of the wall, and enterthe city. And he desired him to be glad ofthe opportunity of exposing himself to suchgreat pains; and not to be displeased at it,since he was a valiant soldier, and had agreat reputation for his valour, both with theking, and with his countrymen. And whenUriah undertook the work he was set uponwith alacrity, he gave private orders to thosewho were to be his companions, that whenthey saw the enemy make a sally, they should * It may be thought perhaps, that Uriah suspectedsomething of his wife's adultery, and therefore, resolvingthat it should be discovered, would not be persuaded togo down to his house: but if he did, he certainly actedthe part of a trusty servant, when he would not open theking's letter to know what was in it, though, upon sup­position that he suspected his criminal commerce withhis wife, he had reason to expect no good. This putsone naturally in mind of the story of Bellerophon's car­rying letters from Proetus to his father-in-law Jobates,king of Lycia, with an order to kill him, from whom itcame into a proverb, to carry Bellerophon's letter, or adeath warrant against one's self, according to that passagein Plautus: Aha! Bellerophontem jam tuus me fecit filius,Egomet tabellas detuli ut vincirer. Bacchid. For the fable of Uriah and Bellerophon are so very muchalike, that the fable of the latter seems to be founded leave him. When, therefore, the Hebrewsmade an attack upon the city, the Ammoniteswere afraid that the enemy might preventthem, and get up into the city; and this atthe very place whither Uriah was ordered;so they exposed their best soldiers to be inthe fore-front, and opened their gates sud­denly, and fell upon the enemy with greatvehemence, aftd ran violently upon them.When those that were with Uriah saw this,they all retreated backward, as Joab hadpreviously directed; but Uriah, as ashamedto run away and leave his post, sustained theviolence of the onset, and slew many of theenemy; but, being encompassed round, andcaught in the midst of them, he was slain ;tand some other of his companions were slainwith him. When this was done, Joab sent messengersto the king, and ordered them to tell him, thathe did what he could to take the city soon:but that, as they made an assault on the wall,they had been forced to retire with great loss.And bade them, if they saw the king wasangry at it, to add, that Uriah was slain also.When the king had heard this of the messen­gers, he said, "That they did wrong whenthey assaulted the wall; whereas they ought,by undermining, and other stratagems of war,to endeavour the taking of the city, especiallywhen they had before their eyes the exampleof JAbimelech, the son of Gideon, who wouldneeds take the tower in Thebez by force, andwas killed by a large stone thrown at him byan old woman; and although he was a manof great prowess, he died ignominiously by thedangerous manner of his assault: that they upon the story of the former. Bellerophon, who, as somescholiasts think, should be read Boulepheron (a council-carrier) was a stranger at the court of Proetus, as Uriah(being a Hittite) was at the court of David. He declinedthe embraces of Sthenboea, as Uriah did the bed of Bath-sheba; and was for that reason, sent to Jobates, generalof Proetus's army, with letters, which contained a direc­tion to put him to death, as Uriah was sent to Joab,David's general. By Jobates he was sent, with a smallguard, upon an attack, in which it was intended heshould be slain, as Uriah was by Joab to that in which hefell. The main of the history is the same in both; thesimilitude of Jobates and Joab's name is very remarkable;and the variation in the whole only lies in some such or­namental embellishments, as might well be expected in apoetical composition; Calmet's Commentary, and the His­tory of the Life of King David. B. t 2 Sam. xi. 17. J Judges ix. 56—65.