OCR Output 24 TIIE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. " was last night basely murdered by the hand of gla-" diators whom Blsesus arms for your destruction.4i Answer me, Blsesus, where have you bestowed the" body ? The very enemy allows the rites of sepul-44 ture. When I have washed my brother with the" tears, and printed kisses on his mangled body, then" plunge your poniard in this wretched bosom. I shall" die content, if these my fellow soldiers perform the" last funeral office, and bury in one grave two44 wretched victims, who knew no crime but that of" serving the common interest of the legion." XXIII. This speech Vibulenus rendered still moreinflammatory by the vehemence of his manner, bybeating his breast, by striking his forehead, and pour­ing a flood of tears. A way being opened through thecrowd, he leaped from the men's shoulders, and gro­velling at the feet of individuals, excited the passionsof the multitude to the highest pitch of frenzy. Intheir fury some fell upon the gladiators retained byBlsesus, and loaded them with irons; others seized thegeneral's domestic train; while numbers dispersedthemselves on every side in quest of the body: and ifit had not been speedily known that no corpse couldbe found ; that the slaves of Btesus averred under thetorture that no murder had been committed; and, infact, that tho incendiary never had a brother, Blsesusmust have fallen a sacrifice. The tribunes, and theprsefect of the camp, were obliged to save themselvesby flight. Their baggage was seized and plundered.Lucilius the centurion was put to death. This man,by the sarcastic pleasantry of the soldiers, had beennicknamed give me another; because, in chastisingthe soldiers, when one rod was broke, he was used tocall for another, and then another. The rest ofthe centurions lay concealed in lurking places. Outof the whole number Julius Clemens, a man of promptand busy talents, was the favourite of the insurgents.He was spared as a fit person to negociate the claimsof the army. Two of the legions, the eighth and fif­teenth, were upon the point of coming to the decisionof the sword: the former bent on the destruction ofSirpicus, a centurion; and the latter determined to