OCR Output NOTES ON THE Jxxlx SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. and release of some Jewish priests who were pri­soners at Rome. [40] The learned Dr. Lardner (Jewish and Hea­then Testimonies, vol. ii. p. icx, 103.) has provedthat the name of Galileans, was a very ancient, andperhaps the primitive, appellation of the Christians. [41] Joseph. Antiquitat. xviii 1,2. Tillemont,Ruine des Juifs, p. 742. The sons of Judas werecrucified in the time of Claudius. His grandsonEleazar, after Jerusalem was taken, defended astrong fortress with 960 of his most desperate fol­lowers. When the battering ram had made abreach, they turned their swords against theirwives, their children, and at length against theirown breasts. They died to the last man. [42] The Spanish Inscription in Gruter, p. 238,No. 9, is a manifest and acknowledged imposition.See Ferreras Histoire d' Espagne, tom._i. p. 192. [43] The capitol was burnt duiing the civil warbetween Vitellius and Vespasian, the 19th of De­cember, A. D. 69. On the icth of August, A. D.70, the temple of Jerusalem was destroyed by thehands of the Jews themselves, rather than by thoseof the Romans. [44] The new capitol was dedicated by Domi­tian. Sueton. in Domitian, c. 5. Plutarch inPoplicola, torn, i. p. 230. Edit. Bryan. Thegilding alone cost 12000 talents (above two millionsand a half). It was the opinion of Martial, thatif the emperor had called in his debts, Jupiter him­self, even though he had made a general auction ofOlympus,would have been unable to pay two shillingsin the pound. [45] With regard to the tribute, see DionCassius, 1. lxvi. p. 1082, with Rcimarus's notes.Spanheim, de Usu Numismatum, torn. it. p. 571,and Basnage, Hist. Des Juifs, 1. vii. c 2. [46] Suetonius (in Domitian, c. 12.) had seenan old man of ninety publickly examined beforethe procurator's tribunal. This is what Martialcalls, Mentula tributis damnata. [47] This appellation was at first understood inthe most obvious sense, and it was supposed, thatthe brothers of Jesus were the lawful issue of Josephand of Mary. A devout respect soothe virginity os the mother of God. suggested to the Gnostics, andafterwards to the orthodox Greeks, the expedient ofbestowing a second wise on Joseph. The Latins(from the time of Jerome) improved on that hinr,asserted the perpetual celibacy of Joseph, and justi­fied by many similar examples that Jude, as well asSimon and James, who are styled the brothers ofJesus Christ, might be only his first cousins. SeeTillemont, Mem. Ecclesiast. torn, i. part iii. andBcausobre, Hist. Critique du Manicheisme, 1. ii. c.2. [48J Thirty-nine wXi8f«, squares of an hundredfeet each, which if strictly computed would scarcelyamount to nine acres. But the probability of cir*cumstances, the practice of other Greek writers*and the authority of M. de Valois, incline msto believe that the *x»9por is used to express theRoman jugerum- [49] Eusebius, iii. 2cv The story is taken from-Hegesippus. [50] Seethe death and character of Sabinus inTacitus (Hist. iii. 74, 75-)- Sabinus was the elderbrother, and till the acceslion of Vespasian, had beenconsidered as the principal support os the Flavianfamily. [51] Flavium Clcmentem patruelem sunm con*temtijjima inertia ... ex tenuiffima suspicione intere*mit. Sueton. in Domitian, c. 1.5. [52] The isle of Pandataria, according to Dion.Bruttius Præsens (apud Euseb. iii. 18.) banishes herto that of Pontia, which was not far distant from theother. That difference, and a mistake either ofEusebius, or of his transcribers, have given occa­sion to suppose two Domitillas, the wise and theniece of Clemens. See Tillemont, Memoires Eccle-siastiques,. torn. ii. p. 224.. [53] Dion. 1. lxvii. p. 1112. If the Bruttius-Præsens, from whom it is probable that he collected-this account, was the correspondent of Pliny,(Epistol. vii. 3.) we may consider him as a contem­porary writer, [54] Sueton. in Domit. c. 17. Philostratus inVit. Apollon. 1. viii. [55] Dion. 1. Ixviii. p. 11-18. Plin. Epistol.iv. 22. L56] Plin.