OCR Output 146 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIT. to receive them, he saluted the men: and said, that it was butjust to discourse, in the first place, of the errand they were sentabout, and then to address himself to themselves. He promised,however, that he would make this day on which they came tohim remarkable and eminent every year through the wholecourse of his life; for their coming to him, and the victory whichhe gained over Antigonus by sea, proved to be on the very sameday. He also gave orders, that they should sup with him; andgave it in charge that they should have excellent lodgings pro­vided for them in the upper part of the city. 12. Now he that was appointed to take care of the receptionof strangers, Nicanor by name, called for Dorotheus, whoseduty it was to make provision for them, and bid him prepare forevery one of them what should be requisite for their diet and wayof living. Which thing was ordered by the king after this man­ner: he took care, that those that belonged to every city, whichdid not use the same way of living, that all things should be pre­pared for them according to the custom of those that came tohim, that being feasted according to the usual method of theirown way of living, they might be the better pleased, and mightnot be uneasy at any thing done to them, from which they werenaturally averse. And this was now done in the case of thesemen by Dorotheus, who was put into this office because of hisgreat skill in such matters belonging to common life ; for he tookcare of all such matters as concerned the reception of strangers,and appointed them double seats for them to sit on, accordingas the king had commanded him to do; for he had commandedthat half of their seats should be set at his hand, and the other halfbehind his table, and took care that no respect should be omittedthat could be shown them. And when they were thus set down,he bid Dorotheus to minister to all those that were come to himfrom Judea, after the manner they used to be ministered to: forwhich cause he sent away their sacred heralds, and those thatslew the sacrifices, and the rest that used to say grace : but call­ed to one of those that were come to him, whose name wasEleazar, who was a priest, and desired him to * say grace; whothen stood in the midst of them, and prayed, that " all prosperi-"ty might attend the king, and those that were his subjects." Up­ * This is the most ancient example I have met with, of a grace, or short prayer,or thanksgiving before meat; which, as it used to be said by an heathen priest,was now said by Eleazar, a Jewish priest, who was one of these seventy-two inter­preters. The next example I have met with is that of the Essenes, Of the War, B.II. chap. viii. sect. 5. vol. III. both before and after it; those of our Saviour beforeit. Mark viii. 6. John vi. 11. 23. and St. Paul, Acts xxvii. S3. and a form of such agrace or prayer for Christians, at the end of the fifth book of the Apostolical Con­stitutions, which seems to have been intended for both times, both before and aftermeat.