OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. The next morning the Bulgarian cavalry advanced to thecharge. But they heard the shouts of multitudes, theybeheld the arms and discipline of the front; theywereassaulted on the flanks by two ambuscades which rosefrom the woods; their foremost warriors fell by the handof the aged hero and his guards; and the swiftness oftheir evolutions was rendered useless by the close attackand rapid pursuit of the Romans. In this action (sospeedy was their flight) the Bulgarians lost only fourhundred horse; but Constantinople was saved; and Za-bergan, who felt the hand of a master, withdrew to arespectful distance. But his friends were numerous inthe councils of the emperor, and Belisariug obeyed withreluctance, the commands of envy and Justinian, whichforbade him to achieve the deliverance of his country.On his return to the city, the people, still conscious oftheir danger, accompanied his triumph with acclamationsof joy and gratitude, which were imputed as a crime tothe victorious general. But when he entered the pa­lace, the courtiers were silent, and the emperor after acold and thankless embrace, dismissed him to minglewith the train of slaves. Yet so deep was the impressionof his glory on the minds of men, that Justinian, in theseventy-seventh year of his age, was encouraged to ad­vance near forty miles from the capital, and to inspect inperson the restoration of the long wall. The Bulgarianswasted the summer in the plains of Thrace; but theywere inclined to peace by the failure of their rash at­tempts on Greece and the Chersonesus. A menace ofkilling their prisoners quickened the payment of heavyransoms; and the departure of Zabergan was hastenedby the report, that double-prowed vessels were built onthe Danube to intercept his passage. The danger wassoon forgotten; and a vain question, whether their sove­reign had shewn more wisdom or weakness, amused theidleness of the city.5 ■ The Bulgarian war, and the last victory of Belisarius, are imperfectly represent­