OCR Output "in which the Roman people saw, with unshaken" constancy, the loss of their generals, the overthrow" of their armies, and the destruction of the noblest" families. Whatever maybe the fate of noble fami," lies, the commonwealth is immortal. Let all resume"their former occupations; and, since the Magalen-" sian games were near at handvlet the diversions of" the season assuage the general sorrow." VII. The vacation from public business was nowconcluded. The people returned to their ordinaryfunctions, and Drusus set out for tho army in Illyri-cum. At Rome, in the mean time, all were impatientto see Piso brought to justice. That an offender ofsuch magnitude should be suffered to roam at largethrough the delightful regions of Asia and Achaia,roused the general indignation. By such contumacythe law was eluded, and the evidence was growingweaker every day. The fact was, Martina, that no­torious dealer in poison, whom Sentius, as has beenmentioned, ordered to be conveyed to Rome, diedsuddenly at Brundusium. Poison is said to havebeen found in the tangles of her hair, but no trace ofsuicide appeared on any part of her body. VIII. Piso, taking his measures in time, sent hisson to Rome with instructions to prepossess the em­peror in his favour. He went himself to seek an in­terview with Drusus; persuaded that he should findthe prince not so much exasperated at the loss of abrother, as pleased with an event that delivered himfrom a rival. The son arrived at Rome. Tiberius,to show that nothing was prejudged, gave the youtha gracious reception; adding the presents usually be­stowed on persons of rank on their return from theprovinces. Drusus saw the elder Piso, and franklytold him, that if what was rumoured abroad appearedto be founded in truth, the charge demanded hiskeenest resentment; but he rather hoped to find thewhole unsupported by proof, that no man might de­serve to suffer for the death of Germanicus. Thisanswer was given in public; no private audience wasadmitted. The prince, it was generally believed, hadhis lesson from Tiberius; it being improbable that a