OCR Output MKGARA. MKGARA. 311 time with Hum (b. o. 735), and be/ore Syracuse.(xpin.Ch.S71—276; Strab. vi. p. 269.) It isimpossible to reconcile the two accounts, but thatof Thucydides is probably the most trustworthy.According; to this the foundation of Megara mayprobably be placed about 726 B. c Of its earlierhistory we have scarcely any information, but itwould appear to have attained to a flourishing con­dition, as 100 years after its foundation it sent out,in its turn, a colony to the other end of Sicily, whereit founded the city of Selinus, which was destinedto rise to far greater power than its parent city.(Tbuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch. 291; Strab. vi. p. 272.) Nothing more is known of Megara till the periodof its destruction by Gelon of Syracuse, who, aftera long siege, made himself master of the city by acapitulation; but, notwithstanding this, caused thebulk of the inhabitants to be sold into slavery, whilehe established the more wealthy and noble citizensat Syracuse. (Herod, vii. 156; Thucvi. 4.) Amongthe persons thus removed was the celebrated comicpoet Epichamius, who had received his education atMegan, though not a native of that city. (Suid.». >•. '£»:x<"e>-'3i; Diog. Laert viii. 3.) According toThucydides, this event took place 245 years afterthe foundation of Megara, and may therefore beplaced about 481 B, c. It is certain that Megaranever recovered its power and independence. Thu­cydides distinctly alludes to it as not existing in hisbrae as a city, but repeatedly mentions the locality,co the aea-coast, which was at that time occupiedby tin Syracusans, but which the Athenian general1 amachus proposed to make the head-quarters oftheir fleet (Thuc. vi. 49, 96.) From this timewe meet with repeated mention of a place namedMegan or Megaris (Scyl. p. 4. § 6), which it seemsimpossible to separate from Uybla, and it is pro-table that the two were, in fact, identical. [Thesenotices are discussed under Htbua, No. 2.] Thesite of this later Megara or Hybla may be fixed,with little doubt, at the mouth of the river Alabus(CVmtaro); but there seems much reason to supposethat the ancient city, the original Greek colony, wassituated almost close to the remarkable promontorytow occupied by the city of Agosta or Auffusla*It k difficult to believe that this position, the portof which b at least equal to that of Syracuse, whilethe peninsula itself has the same advantages as thatofOrtygia, should have been wholly neglected inancient times; and such a station would have ad­mirably served the purposes for which Lamachusurred upon his brother generals the occupation ofthe vacant site of Megara. (Thuc. vi. 49.) [E.H.B.]MK'GAKA (vtt Mryapa, Megara -orutn, some­times Megara -ae: the territory i) Meyapir, sometimes71 Mryoftin}, sc. yij: Etk. Mtyaptvs, Megarensis;Adj. Mryapucer), a city in Greece Proper. I. SlTUATIOH. The city of Megara is situated rather more thana mile frum the Saronic gulf, in a plain about 6 or7 miles in length, and the same in breadth, boundedto the westward by the range of the Gerancianmountains, to the eastward by the range whichterminates in the mountains called Kerata or theHams.and to the south by the sea; while on the north • The modern city of this name dates only fromth» thirteenth century, being founded in 1229 byIt* emperor Frederic II., from whom it derives itsname. the plain loses itself in a gradual ascent The citystood on a low hill with a double summit, on each ofwhich there was an acropolis, one named Caria(Ku|):o), and the other Alcathok (AAicaeo7)),the former probably being on the eastern, and thelatter on the western height, upon which themodern village is chiefly situated. Immediatelybelow the city was a port-town named Nisaea(Ndraia nnd Ni<raia), the port being formed by anisland called HlKOA (MiKtea). The city was con­nected with its port-town by Long Walls II. History. There were two traditions respecting the earlyhistory of Megara, According to the Megarians,the town owed its origin lb-Car, the son of Phoroneus,who built the citadel called Caria and the templesof Demeter called Megara, from which the placederived its name. (Paus. i. 39. § 5, i. 40. § 6.)Twelve generations afterwards Lelex came fromEgypt and gave the inhabitants the name of Leleges,whence we read in Ovid (J/efc vii. 443): — "Tutns ad Alcathoen. Lelegeia moenia, limesComposito Scirone patet." Lelex was succeeded by his son Cleson, the latterby his son Pylas, whose son Sciron married thedaughter of Pandion, king of Athens. But Nisus,the son of Pandion, disputing with Sciron the pos­session of Megara, Aeacus, who had been called inas arbiter, assigned the kingdom to Nisus and hisposterity, and to Sciron the command in war.Nisus was succeeded by Megareus, the son ofPoseidon, who had married Iphinoe, the daughter ofNisus; and Megareus was followed by his sonAlcathons, who built the other citadel named afterhim. Such was the account of the Megarians,who purposely suppressed the story of the captureof their city by Minos during the reign of Nisus.(Paus. i. 39. §§ 5, 6, i. 41. § 5.) The other tradition, which was preserved by theBoeotians and adopted by the rest of Greece,differs widely from the preceding one. In the reignof Pylas, Pandion being expelled from Athens bythe Metionidae, fled to Megara, married the daughterof Pvlas, and succeeded his father-in-law in thekingdom. (Paus. i. 39. § 4; Apollod. iii. 15.)The Metionidae were in their turn driven out ofAthens; and when the dominions of Pandion weredivided among his four sons, Nisus, the youngest,obtained Megaris. The city was called after himNisa (Nitro), and the same name was given to theport-town which he built. When Minos attackedNisus, Megareus, son of Poseidon, came fromOnchestus in Boeotia to assist the latter, and wasburied in the city, which was called after himMegara. The name of Nisa, subsequently Nisaea,was henceforth confined to the port-town. (Paus.i. 39. §§ 4, 6.) But even the inhabitants of Megarawere sometimes called Nisaei, to distinguish themfrom the Megarians of Sicily, their colonists (Theocr.Id xii. 27.) Through the treachery of his daughterScylla, Nisus perished, and Minos obtained posses­sion of the city, and demolished its walls. Theywere subsequently restored by Alcalhuus, son ofPelops, who came from Elis. In this work he wasassisted by Apollo. (Paus. i. 41. § 6; Theogn.771; Ov. Met. viii. 14.) It was further related,that Hyperion, the son of Agamemnon, was the lastking of Megara, and that after his death a democra­