OCR Output 448 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. punishment. It was sufficient, that the emperor ofXXIL the Romans, stripped of the ensigns of royalty, shouldappear in a mournful and suppliant posture; and that,in the midst of the church of Milan, he should hum­bly solicit, with sighs and tears, the pardon of hissins*. In this spiritual cure, Ambrose employed thevarious methods of mildness and severity. After adelay of about eight months, Theodosius was restoredto the communion of the faithful; and the edict,which interposes a salutary interval of thirty daysbetween the sentence and the execution, may be ac­cepted as the worthy fruits of his repentance t. Poste­rity has applauded the virtuous firmness of the arch­bishop: and the example of Theodosius may provethe beneficial influence of those principles, whichcould force a monarch, exalted above the apprehen­sion of human punishment, to respect the laws, andministers, of an invisible Judge.Generosity After the defeat and death of the tyrant of Gaul, of Theo- . * .' dosiu». the Roman world was in the possession of Theodosius. 38^—391. He derived from the choice of Gratian his honourabletitle to the provinces of the East: he had acquiredthe West by the right of conquest; and the threeyears which he spent in Italy were usefully employedto restore the authority of the laws, and to correctthe abuses which had prevailed with impunity underthe usurpation of Maximus, and the minority of Va-lentinian. The name of Valentinian was regularlyinserted in the public acts: but the tender age, anddoubtful faith, of the son of Justina, appeared torequire the prudent care of an orthodox guardian;and his specious ambition might have excluded theunfortunate youth, without a struggle, and almost • The penance of Theodosius is authenticated by Ambrose (torn. vi. de Obit.Theodos. c 34. p. 1207.), Augustin. (de Civitat. Dei, v. 26.), and Paulinus (inVit. Ambros. c. 24). Socra'es is ignorant; Sozomen (1. vii. c. 25.) concise; andthe copious narrative of Theodoret (1. v. c. 18.) must be used with precaution. t Codex Theodos. 1. ix. tit. xl. leg. 13.