OCR Output B. III. TEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426. " Then they cannot belong to those of our party." The otherreplied, " They must, if you fought yesterday at Idomene."" We fought no where yesterday; we suffered the day before" in our retreat from Olpae." " But we fought yesterday" against those Ambraciots, who were advancing from the" city to relieve you." When the herald heard this, andfound that the army of relief from the city was thus destroy­ed, he burst into a groan ; and, quite overpowered with theweight of the present calamities, he went off abruptly, andwithout renewing his demand about the dead. During the whole course of this war, no other Grecian citysuffered so great a loss in so short a time. I have not pre­sumed to mention the number of the slain, because it is saidto have been incredibly great, when compared with the sizeof their city. But I am well convinced, that, if in compliancewith the advice of the Athenians and Demosthenes, the Acar-nanians and Amphilochians would have proceeded to theexcision of Ambracia, they might have done it with a bareshout of their voice. But they dreaded its falling into thehands of the Athenians, who might prove worse neighboursto them than the old. But to return. A third part of the spoils was bestowedupon the Athenians, the rest was divided amongst the confe­derate cities. Those allotted the Athenians were lost at sea.For the three hundred suits of armour which are reposited inthe Temples of Athens, were selected for Demosthenes, whonow returned thither, and brought^them with him. Thedread he had been under ever since his miscarriage in iEto-lia was quite dispelled by the good service he had now per­formed. The Athenians, with their squadron of twenty sail, werenow returned to Naupactus ; and, since the departure of theAthenians and Demosthenes, the Acarnanians and Amphilo­chians had granted by treaty to those Ambraciots and Pelo-ponnesians, who had refuged with Salynthius and the Agrae-ans, a safe retreat from amongst the Oeniadae, who had also