OCR Output CHAP. L. 307 and promises from their hands. In this eventful momentthe lance of an Arab might have changed the history ofthe wor.ld. The flight of the prophet from Mecca toMedina has fixed the memorable era of the Hegira,cwhich, at the end of twelve centuries, still discriminatesthe lunar years of the Mahometan nations.dReceived The religion of the Koran might have perish-rfMediaa e(^ in *ts cradle, nad not Medina embraced withA.D. eza. faith and reverence the holy outcasts of Mecca.Medina, or the city, known under the name of Yathreb,before it was sanctified by the throne of the prophet, wasdivided between the tribes of the Charegites and theAwsites, whose hereditary feud was rekindled by theslightest provocations: two colonies of Jews, who boasteda sacerdotal race, were their humble allies, and withoutconverting the Arabs, they introduced the taste of scienceand religion, which distinguished Medina as the cityof the book. Some of her noblest citizens, in a pil­grimage to the Caaba, were converted by the preachingof Mahomet; on their return they diffused the belief ofGod and his prophet, and the new alliance was ratifiedby their deputies in two secret and nocturnal interviewson a hill in the suburbs of Mecca. In the first, ten Cha­regites and two Awsites united in faith and love, pro­tested in the name of their wives, their children, andtheir absent brethren, that they would for ever professthe-creed, and observe the precepts, of the Koran. Thesecond was a political association, the first vital spark ofthe empire of the Saracens.0 Seventy-three men andtwo women of Medina held a solemn conference with c The Hegira was instituted by Omar, the second caliph, in imitation of the earof the martyrs of the Christians; (d'Herbelot, p. 444.) and properly commencedfdzty-eight days before the flight of Mahomet, with the first of Moharren, or firstday of that Arabian year, which coincides with Friday, July 16, A. D. 629. (Abul­feda, Vit. Moharn. c. 22, 23. p. 45—50. and Greave's edition of tiling BeigV.Epocha e Arabum, &c. c. 1. p. 8. 10, &c.) 1 Mahomet's life, from his mission to the Hegira, may be found in Abulfeda(p. 14—45.) and Gagnier. (torn. 1. 134—251. 342—383.) The legend fromp. 187—264. is vouched by Al Jannabi, and disdained by Abulfeda. 'The triple inauguration of Mahomet is described by Abulfeda (p. 3O. 33.80. i and Gagnier. (torn. 1. p. 349, &c. torn. 1. p. 223, 4c.) x 2