OCR Output 19G LIVY. with a wall, and which they had raised to some height,it suddenly fell down in ruins. Thus it is seen thatnot only now, but at several other times, the goddesshas either secured her own habitation—her sacredfane, or has exacted heavy atonements from those whodared to violate it. Our injuries she cannot avenge;conscript fathers, it can alone be done by you. Toyou, and to your honor, we fly, and, as suppliants,implore relief. For whether you sutler Locri to con­tinue under the present lieutenant-general and garri­son, or deliver our countrymen up to Hannibal andthe Carthaginians, to be punished as their anger maydirect, it will be equally fatal to them. We do notrequire that you should, at once, give credit to us,and to charges made in the general's absence, or with­out allowing him to make his defence: let him come,let him hear them in person; let him clear himself ofthem, if he can. In fine, if there be any act of iniquitywhich one man can commit against others, that he hasnot committed against us, we consent, if it be possible,again to endure our griefs, and that he shall be ac­quitted of all guilt towards both gods and men.' 19. When the ambassadors had concluded their dis­course, being asked by Quintus Fabius whether theyhad laid those complaints before Publius Scipio, theyanswered, that ' an embassy had been sent to him, butthat he was taken up with the preparations for thewar; and that, either before this time he had passedover into Africa, or would do so in a very few days.That they had experienced what great interest thelieutenant-general had with the commander, when,after hearing the cause between him and the tribunes,he threw the tribunes into chains, and left the lieute­nant-general, who was equally guilty, or rather moreso, in possession of the same power as before.' Theambassadors being ordered to withdraw, the principalsenators inveighed severely not only against Plemi-nins, but against Scipio also; but, above all, QuintusFabius, who asserted that 'he was born for the cor­ruption of military discipline; that, through such con-