OCR Output CHAP.XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. evening are separated by the brightness of the meridiansun: the Arcadius of the palace arose the Caesar of thecamp; and the honour of Rome and Heraclius was glori­ously retrieved by the exploits and trophies of six adventur­ous campaigns. It was the duty of the Byzantine historiansto have revealed the causes of his slumber and vigilance.At this distance we can only conjecture, that he was en­dowed with more personal courage than political resolu­tion; that he was detained by the charms, and perhapsthe arts, of his niece Martina, with whom, after the deathof Eudocia, he contracted an incestuous marriage ;d andthat he yielded to the base advice of the counsellors, whourged as a fundamental law, that the life of the empe­ror should never be exposed in the field." Perhaps hewas awakened by the last insolent demand of the Per­sian conqueror: but at the moment when Heraclius as­sumed the spirit of a hero, the only hopes of the Romanswere drawn from the vicissitudes of fortune which mightthreaten the proud prosperity of Chosroes, and must befavourable to those who had attained the lowest period ofdepression.' To provide for the expenses of war, wasthe first care of the emperor; and for the purpose of coUlecting the tribute, he was allowed to solicit the benevo­lence of the eastern provinces. But the revenue no longerflowed in the usual channels; the credit of an arbitraryprince is annihilated by his power; and the courage ofHeraclius was first displayed in daring to borrow theconsecrated wealth of churches, under the solemn vow ofrestoring, with usury, whatever he had been compelled to a Nicephorus, (p. 10, 11.) who brands this marriage with the names of nQta-potand aBejjurcy, is happy to observe, that of two sons, its incestuous fruit, the elderwas marked by Providence with a stiff neck, he younger with the loss of hearing. « George of Pisidia, (Acroas. 1.112—125. p. 5.) who states the opinions, acquitsthe pusillanimous counsellors of any sinister views. Would he have excused theproud and contemptuous admonition of Crispus 1 EiriGxma^w m* ijw /WiMi ifarai 1 Eiraf tit axgov ijpfAfVrtf ius£ia?EffaXjUeva; \tyova-iv oux airtiKuriviTdSia-Qai to \ofjrov IV xaxoj; ta. fttja-iS&c Avriff-rpj■fait Si, &c. George Pisid. Acroas. 1. 51, &c. p. 4.The orientals are not less fond of remarking this strange vicissitude: and I remember«om« story of Khosrow Parviz, not very unlike tho ring of Polyeratss of Samos.