OCR Output BOOK I. 281 ttgt want of true accounts and the agreement of those who brought falsereports. 29. Neque aetate neque corpore. For he was *«l yijwr miioBcvfis ra vtvpa. Xiphil. 64, 3. (The reference is to the abridgmentof Dion Cassius by Xiphilinus, which alone is preserved in most ofthis period.) 30. Sistens = resistens, obsistens, as in Virg. Aen. 11, 240. Cf.Essay, p. 10. Vid. Dod. in loc. Render: since he was neither ofsuitable age nor bodily strength to withstand the now in-rushingmultitude.—Sella. Cf. note, 27. The sella here, however, appearsto have been uncovered (cf. 41), perhaps to suit the military characterand taste of Galba.—Levaretur. The subj. after donee, where a factand not a mere conception or purpose is expressed. This is contraryto the rule. Cf. note, 13 : donee .... amoliretur. But it is frequentwith Tacitus, who comparatively seldom uses the indie, after donee,until, and then without any apparent difference of meaning. Cf. Gr.263, 4; Z. 575. It is worthy of remark, however, that Tacitus usesthe subj. after donee where he has occasion for the imperfect. Whorethe sense requires the perfect, he uses the indie. The only exceptionto this usage, so far as I have observed, is in 1, 9: donee .... aderat.Donee, so long as, is always followed by the indicative, in oratio recla.Cf. 37: donee .... dubitabitur. 33. Q,uis jussit. " My oath and. my duty," replied the soldier.See Plut. Galb. 19. But T. wishing to illustrate only the characterof Galba, omits the reply. Ch. XXXVI.—3T. Agmine et corporibus. Hendiadys for agminefacto suis corporibus. Bach. The force of circumdprent reachesback to this clause: not content with surrounding him by their ownpersons in a body. Vid. Or. and Duebner in loco. On the mode andtense of circumdarent, cf. note, chap. 24 : dederit. 38. Suggestu = tribunali, i. e. at the headquarters of the com­mander, where the statue of the emperor was always placed. Manual,P. 3, 296. (The reference is to Eschenburg's Manual of ClassicalLiterature: Fiske's Edition.) 1. Signa... .. vexillis. The distinction intended between these^ywords in this place is not clear. It may be that of their original appli­cation, viz. signa referring to the infantry, and vexilla to the cavalry.More probably, however, vexillis is used in the same sense as in 31,where see note. Then signa would denote the standards of the co­horts which made up the legions (Hispana and Classica), and vexillathose of the electi Gcrmanid,Britannid et Illyrid exercitus. Cf. 6. 3. Caveri. Observe the passive form: should be watched with ajealous eye.—Insuper. Furthermore, i. e. besides precluding the nearapproach of the tribunes and centurions, they bade each other bewarefurthermore of all their officers. 24*