OCR Output ah. 2578.] 21 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. but from Javan and Jonia all the Greciansare derived. Thobel founded the Thobelites,now called Iberes: and the Mosocheni, nowcalled Cappadocians, were founded by Mo-soph. There is also a mark of their ancientdenomination still to be shewn, for there iseven now among them a city called Mazaca,which may inform those who are able to un­derstand, that so was the nation once called.Thiras also called those whom he ruled overThirasians, but the Greeks changed the nameinto Thracians; and so many were the coun­tries that had the children of Japhet for theirinhabitants. Of the three sons of Gomer, Aschanaxfounded the Aschanaxians, who are nowcalled by the Greeks Rheginians; Riphathfounded the Ripheans, now called Paphlago-nians; and Thrugramma the Thrugrammeans,who, as the Greeks resolved, were namedPhrygians. Of the three sons of Javan also,the son of Japhet. Elisa gave name to theEliseans, who were his subjects; they arenow the iEolians. Tharsus to the Tharsians,for so was Cilicia of old called; the sign ofwhich is, that the noblest city they have, anda metropolis also, is Tausus, the letter Taubeing by change put for Theta. Cethimuspossessed the island Cethima. It is now calledCyprus, and from that all islands, and thegreatest part of the sea-coasts, are namedCethim by the Hebrews; and one city thereis in Cyprus that has been able to preserveits denomination; it is called Citius by thosewho use the language of the Greeks, and hasnot, by the use of that dialect, escaped thename of Cethim; and so many nations havethe children and grand-children of Japhetpossessed. Now when I have premised some­what which, perhaps, the Greeks do not know,I will return and explain what I have omitted;for such names are pronounced here after themanner of the Greeks, to please my readers,for our own language does not so pronouncethem; but the names in all cases are of oneand the same ending; for the name we herepronounce Noeus, is there Noah, and in everycase retains the same termination. The children of Ham possessed the landfrom Syria and Amanus, and the mountainsof Libanus, seizing upon all the maritime • One observation ought not here to be neglected, with parts, and keeping them as their own. Some,indeed, of its names are utterly vanished:others of them being changed, and anothersound given them, are hardly to be discover­ed; yet there are a few which have kepttheir denominations entire; for of the foursons of Ham, time has not at all hurt the nameof Chus; for the Ethiopians, over whom hereigned, are even at this day, both by them­selves and by all men in Asia, called Chu-sites. The memory also of the Mesraites ispreserved in their name, for all we who in­habit the country of Judea call Egypt Mestre,and the Egyptians Mestrians. Phut also wasthe founder of Libya, and called the inhabi­tants Phutites, from himself; there is also ariver in the country of the Moors which bearsthat name, whence the greatest part of theGrecian historians mention that river, and theadjoining country, by the appellation of Phut;but the name it has now is derived from oneof the sons of Mestraim, who was calledLybyos. We will inform you presently whathas been the occasion why it has been calledAfrica also. Canaan, the fourth son of Ham,inhabited the country now called Judea, andcalled it from his own name Canaan. Thechildren of these four were, Sabas, whofounded the Sabeans: Evilas, who foundedthe Evileans, now called Getuli; Sabatheswho founded the Sabathens, called by theGreeks Astoborans; Sabactas, who settled theSabactens: and Ragmus, who founded theRagmeans. This latter had two sons, one ofwhom, Judadas, settled the Judadeans, a na­tion of the western Ethiopians, and left themhis name; as did Sabas, to the Sabeans. ButNimrod, the son of Chus, stayed and tyran­nized at Babylon, as we have already ob­served. Now all the children of Mesraim, beingeight in number, possessed the country fromGaza to Egypt, though it retained the nameof one only, the Philistim, for the Greeks caLpart of that country Palestine. As for therest, Ludieim, Enemim, andLabim, who aloneinhabited Libya, and called the country fromhimself; Nedim and Phethrosim, and Ches-loim and Cephthorim, we know nothing ofthem besides their names: for the Ethiopicwar,* which we wiall describe hereafter, regard to that Ethiopic war, which Moses, as General ol v*