OCR Output 37* THE DECLINE AND FALL Tiridates theArmenian. A. D. 282. A. D. 286.His restora­tion to thethrone ofArmenia. powerful nation, and to force a confession from the successors ofArtaxerxes, of the superior majesty of the Roman empire. We have observed, under the rejgn of Valerian, that Armeniawas subdued by the perfidy and the arms of the Persians, and thatafter the assassination of Chosroes, his son Tiridates, the infant heirof the monarchy, was saved by the fidelity of his friends, andeducated under the protection of the emperors. Tiridates derivedfrom his exile such advantages as he could never have obtained onthe throne of Armenia; the early knowledge of adversity, of man­kind, and of the Roman discipline. He signalized his youth bydeeds of valour, and displayed a matchless dexterity, as well asstrength, in every martial exercise, and even in the less honourablecontests of the Olympian games s\ Those qualities were more no­bly exerted in the defence of his benefactor Licinius fJ. That offi­cer, in the sedition which occasioned the death of Probus, was ex­posed to the most imminent danger, and the enraged soldiers wereforcing their way into hie tent, when they were checked by thesingle arm of the Armenian prince. The gratitude of Tiridatescontributed soon afterwards to his restoration. Licinius was inevery station the friend and companion of Galerius, and the meritof Galerius, long before he was raised to the dignity of Caesar, hadbeen known and esteemed by Diocletian. In the third year of thatemperor's reign, Tiridates was invested with the kingdom of Ar­menia. The justice of the measure was not less evident than itsexpediency. It was time to rescue from the usurpation of the Per­sian monarch an important territory, which, since the reign ofNero, had been always granted under the protection of the empireto a younger branch of the house of Arsacess+. When Tiridates appeared on the frontiers of Armenia, he wasreceived with an unfeigned transport of joy and loyalty. Duringtwenty-six years, the country had experienced the real and imagi­nary hardfliips of a foreign yoke. The Persian monarchs had 4 . adorned