OCR Output book I. 271 divideret just above. Divideret denotes repeated and customary ac-^2tion: he was in the habit of dividing as often as Galba feasted at thehouse of Otho. Dederit denotes a single, specific act . The distinc­tion is the same which always prevails between the imperf. and theperf. in the indie.; but which is not usually observed in the subj,where the tenses are less distinctly marked in all languages, and wherein Latin the perf. is generally used only as a perf. definite, and theimperf. is used indiscriminately for completed and incomplete actions.The rule for the succession of the tenses would require the imperf.tubj. in both places here. Cf. Gr. 258; Z. 516. But certain historicalwriters, particularly Nepos, Livy and Tacitus, seem to have felt a ne­cessity for the same distinction of time in the subj. as in the indicative.Cf. Z. 504, Note. This distinction, it is believed, will be found appli­cable to all the examples in Tacitus. Thus in 5, 20, the two tensesare brought together in the same sentence, both after ut denoting a •consequence. The perf. invaserit is first used to denote the simplehistorical fact of an attack (like the perf. indefinite of the indie). Butwhen he proceeds to speak of the progressive execution of the assault,he uses the imperfect (traherent). Compare also admoverit, 1, 66,with occurrerent, 1, 63 ; peticrit, 3, 51, with aestimarentur, 3, 52,&c, &c.—Praefecti. Cornelius Laco, ignavissimus mortalium. Cf.chap. 6.—Nota, sc. publicae largitiones.1C Occulta, sc. secretiora praemia. Ch. XXV.—18. Tesserarlum. Bearer of the watchword, whichin early times was inscribed on a tessera or square block (from remapes),and thus passed through the ranks on the eve of battle, as a word bywhich the soldiers might distinguish friends from foos. Thus SiliusItal: Tacitum dat tessera signum. Cf. also Virg. Aen. 7, 637. Tcs-serarius, in the military sense, is post-Augustan. 19. Optionem. The optiones were the lieutenants of tho centu­rions (the suc-centuriones of Livy), so called from the time, when (andfrom the fact that) quem velint, permissum est centurionibus optare—previously called accensi, according to Festus, sub voce Optio. Cf.Smith's Diet, of Antiq. under Centurio. Render adjutant, or retainthe Latin word both here and iu tesserarium.—Perductos. Broughtover, sc. to himself (Otho); in partem deteriorem dictum turpi docausa, ut feminao a lenonibus perduci dicuntur. Ernesti. Cf.Horace: perduci poterit pudica.—Postquam connects cognovit andonerat. 2%. Manipulares. Common soldiers, for such the tesserariusand the optio must be called, rather than officers. The word is derivedfrom manus and pleo, since a handful of hay on the top of a pole wastho original ensign of a Roman maniple. 25. Primores niilituni, sc. who had been promoted by Nymphi-dius, when he was prefect of the praetorians, cf. 5; and whom Galba