OCR Output 184 [A.U. C.775. THE ANNALS quity continue! but let it be a generous emulationfor superior virtue; and may that spirit go down tofliture times! LVI. Tiberius gained by these proceedings a con­siderable share of popularity. His moderation in thebusiness of the intended reform, gave satisfaction toall ranks and conditions. The people saw, with plea­sure, the tribe of informers disappointed in theirviews. In this favourable moment, Tiberius, by let­ters to the senate, desired that his son Drusus mightbe invested with the tribunitian dignity. That spe­cious title, importing nothing less than sovereignpower, was invented by Augustus, at a time whenthe name of king or dictator was not only unconsti­tutional, but universally detested. And yet a newname was wanted to overtop the magistrates andthe forms of the constitution. In that power usurped,Marcus Agrippa became his colleague ; and, after hisdeath, Tiberius Nero succeeded. By the last promo­tion, it was the policy of Augustus to mark out theline of succession, and thereby check the views of,as- ,piring men. He was sure that Tiberius would act anunder part, and, besides, his own name was a tower ofstrength. Tiberius, in the present juncture, followedthe precedent left by Augustus. During the life ofGermanrcus, he held the balance even between thetwo young princes, reserving to himself the power ofdeciding when he should see occasion. In the letter,which opened the matter to the senate, after invokingthe gods, and fervently praying that the measuremight be of advantage to the commonwealth, he in­troduced the character of Drusus, but in a guardedstyle, never exceeding the bounds of truth. Theprince, he, said, had a wife and three children, andwas then of the age, which he himself had attainedwhen raised by Augustus to the same honour. Noreould the favour now requested, be deemed prema­ture. Drusus had gone through a probation of eightyears; the proofs of his merit were, seditions quelled,wars happily terminated, the splendour of a triumph,and two consulships. There was therefore no dangerthat he would be a novice in public business.