OCR Output VEDINUM. VEU. 1261 VEDIXUSI (t'uW), a city of Venetia,mentionednlj by 1'liny (iii. 19. s. 23) among the uiunici-niitiw of that country. It was situated in the>iai» of the Carni, 11 miles \V. of Cicidu!e (Forumjiii), and 22 NNW. of Aquileia. In Pliny's timeI was apparently an inconsiderable place, but ruse;to iiiipoitau.ee in the middle agea, and is now a^uriibing and populous city, and the capital of therb<>le province of the Friuli. Many MSS. of Pliny• hit the name Kedinateti, which has been adoptedita by Harduin and Sillig, but it is probable thatht old reading Vedinalea is correct. [E. 11. B.] VEI>KA (OWSea, Ptol. ii. 3. § 6), a river in theI. put of the E. coast of Britannia. The nameruuki lead us to the conclusion that it is the WearCuiiJen, p. 944), yet Horaley (p. 103) and othersave taken it to be the Tynt. [T. U. D.] VKG1A (Oueyia or Ou'«Tla), or Vegilm (Plin.ii. 21. a. 25), a town of Liburuia, the presentoso. [T. H. D.] VE01STUSI {Oiiiurrov), or, as some read, Ve-*>uud (0»«««tof), a town of Oalatia, in therrr.tory of toe Tolistobog'i, between Mounts Didymuaml Celaenus (PtoL v. 4. § 7), is perhaps the sameact as the Vetissuin of the Peutinger Table. [L. S.] VEII (Oinjioi, Strab. v. p. 226; Ofool, Dionys. H. 54 : Eth. Veientes, Cic Div. i. 44 j Liv. i. 15, &C.:Id;'. Veins (trisyL), Propert iv. 10. 31), an ancient.: purely Tuscan city of Etruria. According toatus {ap. P. Uiac. f. p.) Veia was an Oscan word,signified a waggon (plaustrum); but there isxl\i\'i tu hhow that this Has the etymology of the.uue of the town. Amoug the earlier Italian topographers, a greativtraity of opinion prevailed respecting the site ofVii. Ksrdioi was tlie first writer who placed it atpresent Imola Farnoe, the correctness of which;cw is now uni versally admitted. The distance of that."t ii rthwariis from Rome agrees with the distanceaicued hy Dionysius of liaticarnassus c.) to Veii,amrly, *• about 100 stadia," which is confirmed bynt Tabula Peut., where it is set down at 12 miles,a Livy, indeed (v. 4), it is mentioned as being • iiiiin tlie 20th milestonebut this is in a speechI App. Claudius, when the orator is usin^ roundniiLvr*, and not solicitous about strict accuracy;m^t the two writers before cited are professedly '.hi; the exact distance. Nor can the authority of^atropine (i. 4), who places Veii at 18 miles from^u.i*. be admitted to invalidate the testimony of theseutbora, since Eutropius is notoriously incorrect in-initujar* of this description. '1 here are other cir-iinsuncea which tend to show that Jsola Fanwse'Uie site of ancient Veii. Thus the Tab. Peutiug.ir'.iirr indieales lli.it the city lay on the Via Cassia,i ■ » following that road for a distance of about 12ileu from l!ume, the locality not only exactly cor--•puiids with the description of Dionysius, but also> remains of city walls and sepulchres, and tracesI r«*ui» in various directions, have been found there,[.'.-ewer at the same spot were discovered, in the™ 1810, stones bearing inscriptions which relatedillusively to Veii and the Veientines. He know little of the history of Veii but what>r.<*-m* the wars it waged with the Bomans. It isi'u-i by Eutropius (i. 20), >4 ciritas antiquissiinalahae atque ditissima," and there can be no doubtkat it was in a nourishing state at the time of theumutH/n of Koine. At that period the Etruscan,r Vesmtine, territory was separated from the Latin< :!* river Albula, afterwards called Tiberis ; and consequently neither the Muns Vaticanus nor Jani-culensis then belonged to the Bomans. (Liv. i. 3.)To the SVV. of Itome it extended along the right bankof the Tiber down to the sea, where it contained someSalinae, or salt-works, at the mouth of the river.(Dionys. ii. 55.) The district immediately oppositeto Home seems to have been called Septem Pagi (lb.).On the N. of Borne the territory of Veii must at onetime have extended as far as Mount Soracte, sincethe ager Capenatis belonged to it, Capena being acolony of Veii (Cato, ap. Serv. Aen. vii. 697); thoughin the history of the wars between Borne and Veii,Capena appears as an independent city. [Cai-kna,Vol. I. p. 504.] On the NW. it may probably havestretched as far as the Mons Ciminus; but here, aswell as more to the S., its limits are uncertain, andall we know is that in the latter direction it musthave been bounded by the territory of Caere. (Cf.MUller, Etrutker, ii. 2. p. 1, &c.) The ager Vciensis stigmatised by Horace and others as producing anexecrable sort of red wine (Sat. ii. 3. 143; cf. Pers.v. 147; Mart, i. 103. 9, ii. 53. 4, &c.). We learnfrom Dionysius (ii. 54) that the city was of aboutthe same size as Athens, and therefore nearly aslarge as Borne within the walls of Servius. [Koma,Vol. II. p. 756.] The political constitution of Veii, like that of theother Etruscan cities, seems originally to have beenrepublican, though probably aristocratically repub­lican, with magistrates annually elected. It wasperhaps their vicinity to ambitions and aspiring Koine,and the constant wars which they had to wage withI that city, that induced the Veientines to adopt theI form of an elective monarchy, in order to avoid thedissensions occasioned by the election of annual ma­gistrates under their original constitution, and thusto be enabled, under a single leader, to act with morevigour abroad; bnt this step procured them the ill-'will of the rest of the Etruscan confederacy (Liv. v.1, cf. iv. 17). Monarchy, however, does not appearto have been permanent among them; and we only'know the names of two or three of their kiugs, asTulumnius (ib), Pmpertius (Serv. Ac*, vii. 697),and Morrius (Ik. viii. 285). The first time that the Veientes appear in historyis in the war which they waged with Romulus inorder, to avenge the capture of their colony, Fidenae.According to the narrative of Livy, this war wasterminated by one decisive battle in which Romuluswas victorious (i. 15); but Dionysius (ii. 54, seq.)speaks of two engagements, and represents the Bo­mans as gaining the second by a stratagem. Boththese writers, however, agree with regard to the re­sults of the campaign. The loss of the Veientineswas so terrible, both in the battle and in the sub­sequent flight, in which numbers of them were .drowned in attempting to swim the Tiber, that theywere constrained to sue fur peace. The terms im­posed upon them by Romulus show the decisivenature of his victory. They were compelled to sur­render that part of their territory in the neighbour­hood of Rome called Septem Pap, probably from itacontaining seven villages; to give up the salt-workswhich they possessed at tlie mouth of the Tiber;and to provide 50 hostages as security for the dueexecution of tlie treaty. Ou these conditions theyobtained a peace for 100 years, with the restorationof their prisoners; though such of the latter as pre­ferred to remain at Rome were presented with thefreedom of the city and lands on the left bank of theTiber. The district of Septem Pagi thus acquired