OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. culty from their hands. But the Barbarians wereXIx' finally repulsed: the country became every day lessfavourable to the operations of cavalry; and when theRomans arrived at Macepracta, they perceived theruins of the wall, which had been constructed by theancient kings of Assyria, to secure their dominionsfrom the incursions of the Medes. These prelimi­naries of the expedition of Julian appear to have em­ployed about fifteen days; and we may compute nearthree hundred miles from the fortress of Circesiumto the wall of Macepracta *.of Assyria" fertile province of Assyria t, which stretched beyond the Tigris, as far as the mountains of Media,extended about four hundred miles from the ancientwall of Macepracta to the territory of Basra, wherethe united streams of the Euphrates and Tigris dis­charge themselves into the Persian Gulf. The wholecountry might have claimed the peculiar name ofMesopotamia; as the two rivers, which are nevermore distant than fifty, approach, between Bagdadand Babylon, within twenty-five miles of each other.A multitude of artificial canals, dug without muchlabour in a soft and yielding soil, connected the rivers,and intersected the plain of Assyria. The uses ofthese artificial canals were various and important.They served to discharge the superfluous waters fromone river into the other, at the season of their respec­tive inundations. Subdividing themselves into smallerand smaller branches, they refreshed the dry lands,and supplied the deficiency of rain. They facilitatedthe intercourse of peace and commerce; and as thedams could be speedily broke down, they armed the * See Ammianus (xxiv. 1, 2), Libanius (Orat. Parental, c 110, HI. p. 334),Zosimus (1. iii. p. 164—168). f The description of Assyria is furnished by Herodotus (1. L c. 192, &c), whosometimes writes for children, and sometimes for philosophers; by Strabo (I. xvi.p. 1070—1082), and by Ammianus (1. xxiii. c. 6). The most useful of the mo­dern travellers are Tavemier (part i. 1. ii. p. 226—258), Otter (torn. ii. p. 35—69, and 189—224), and Niebuhr (torn. ii. p. 172—288). Yet I much regretthat the Irak ArM. of Abulfeda has not been translated.