OCR Output Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 189 them in array for the battle. He set the horsemen on both thewings, and the light soldiers and the archers he placed before thewhole army, but he was himself on the right wing. And whenhe had> thus put his army in order of battle, and was going tojoin battle with the enemy, he commanded the trumpeter to givea signal of battle, and the army to make a shout and to fall onthe enemy. And when Judas had done the same, he joinedbattle with them; and as both sides fought valiantly, and thebattle continued till sunset, Judas saw that Bacchides, and thestrongest part of the army was in the right wing, and thereupontook the most courageous men with him, and ran upon that partof the army, and fell upon those that were there, and broke theirranks, and drove them into the middle, and forced them to runaway, and pursued them as far as a mountain called Aza; butwhen those of the left wing saw that the right wing was put toflight, they encompassed Judas; and pursued him, and came be­hind him, and took him into the middle of their army; so beingnot able to fly, but encompassed round about with enemies, hestood still, and he and those that were with him fought, andwhen he had slain a great many of those that came againsthim, he at last was himself wounded, and fell, and gave up theghost, and died in a way like to his former famous actions.When Judas was dead, those that were with him had no onewhom they could regard [as their commander,] but when theysaw themselves deprived of such a general, they fled. But Si­mon and Jonathan, Judas' brethren, received his dead body bya treaty from the enemy, and carried it to the village of Modin,where their father had been buried, and there buried him; whilethe multitude lamented him many days, and performed the usualsolemn rites of a funeral to him. And this was the end thatJudas came to. He had been a man of valour and a great war­rior, and mindful of the commands of his father Mattathias;and had undergone all difficulties, both in doing and suffering,for the liberty of his countrymen. And when his characteiwas so excellent [while he was alive,] he left behind him a glo­rious reputation and memorial, by gaining freedom for his na­tion, and delivering them from slavery under the Macedonians.And when he had retained the high priesthood three years, hedied.