OCR Output .50 {book tti ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mutual confidence amiSrigf inert; putting" ahend to their quarrels, removing passion artelgrief out of the minds of therh that use it,and making them cheerful. "Thou didstsqueeze this wine," said he, "from threeclusters of grapes, with thine hands, and theking received it. Know, therefore, that thisvision is for thy good, and foretels a releasefrom thy present distress within the samenumber of days as the branches whence thougatheredst thy grapes in thy sleep.* f How­ever, remember what prosperity I have fore­told thee, when thou hast found it true; andwhen thou art in authority, do not overlookus in this prison, wherein thou wilt leave Us,when thou art gone to the place we haveforetold: for we are not in prison for anycrime, but for the sake of our virtue andsobriety are we condemned to suffer thepenalty of malefactors, and because we arenot willing to injure him that has thus dis­tressed us, though it were for our own plea­sure." The cup-bearer rejoiced to hear suchan interpretation of his dream, and waitedthe completion of what had been thus shewedhim beforehand. Another servant of the king's who had beenchief baker, and was now bound in prisonwith the cup-bearer, was in good hope uponJoseph's interpretation of the other's vision,for he had dreamed also; so he desired thatJoseph would tell him what the visions hehad seen the night before might mean? "Ithought," said he, "that I carried three bas­kets upon my head, two were full of loaves, and the third full of sweet-theats, and othereataBles, such as are prepared for kings*but the fowls came flying, and ate them allup, and had no regard to my attempt to drivethem away." He then expected a predictionlik'e to that of the cup-tfea'rer's: but Joseph,considering the dream, said to him that hewould willingly be an interpreter of goodevents to him, arid riot of such as his dreampronounced; tint he told him that he hadortTy three days to live, as the three basketssignified; but that on the third day he shouldbe crucified, and devoured by fowls, whilehe w£s not able to help himself. Now boththese dreams had the same events that Josephfbretold they should have, and this to bothparties: for on the third day, when the kingsolemnized his birth-day, he crucified thechief baker, but set the butler free from hisbonds, and restored him to his former service,God freed Joseph from his confinementafter he had endured his bonds two years,Jand had received no assistance from the cup­bearer, who did not remember what he hadsaid to him formerly; and God contrived thismethod of deliverance for him. Pharaoh, theking, had seen in his sleep the same eveningtwo visions, and after them had the interpre­tation of them both given him; he haT-^br-gotten the latter, but retained that of #iedreams themselves. Being, therefore, troubl"at what he had seen, for it seemed to him to-be all of a melancholy nature; the next dayhe called together the wisest men among theEgyptians,|| desiring to learn from them the *.An. 1767. t The expression which Joseph makes use of concern­ing the king's cup-bearer and baker, Pharaoh shall lift upthy head, seems somewhat too literally translated, since thewords in the original mean no more, than that Pharaohwould have them brought forth and examined. The an­cients, we are to know, in keeping their reckonings, oraccounts, of time, or their list of domestic officers, or ser-Tants, made use of tables with holes bored in them, inwhich they put a sort of pegs, or nails, with broad heads,exhibiting the particulars, either number, or name, orwhatever it was. These nails, or pegs, the Jews callheads, and the sockets of the heads they call bases. Themeaning therefore of Pharaoh's lifting up his head, is, thatPharaoh would take out the peg, which had the cup-bear­er's name on the top of it, to read it; i. e. would sit inJudgment, and make examination into his accounts. Forit seems very probable that both he and the baker had beeneither suspected or accused of having cheated the king;and that, when their accounts were examined and cast up,the one was acquitted, while the other was found guilty.And though Joseph uses the same expression in both cases, yet we may observe, that speaking to the baker he adds,that Pharaoh shall lift up thy head from off thee, i. e. shallorder thy name to be struck'out of the list of his servants,by taking the peg out of the socket. Bibliotheca Bibl. inlocum. B. J Gen. xl. 18. II The Chaldeans of old were the most famous peoplein the world for divinations of all kinds; and therefore itis very probable that the word Hhartaumim, which werender magicians, is not of Hebrew, but Chaldet origin.The roots, however, from whence it springs (if it be acompound word, as probably it is,) are not so visible;and therefore commentators are perplexed to know bywhat method men of this profession proceeded in theirinquiry into secret things; whether they pretended to ex­pound dreams, and descry future events, by natural obser­vations, by the art of astrology, (which came much in re­quest in future ages,) by such rules as are now found inthe books of Oneirocrites or by certain characters, images,pictures, and figures, which were engraved with magicalrites and ceremonies. It is not to be doubted, indeed, butthat the magicians, whom Pharaoh consulted for the inter­