OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 195 signal, Ravenna, Venice, and the cities of the exarchateand Pentapolis, adhered to the cause of religion; theirmilitary force by sea and land consisted, for the mostpart, of the natives; and the spirit of patriotism andzeal was transfused into the mercenary strangers. TheItalians swore to live and die in the defence of thepope and the holy images: the Roman people was de­voted to their father, and even the Lombards were am­bitious to share the merit and advantage of this holywar. The most treasonable act, but the most obviousrevenge, was the destruction of the statues of Leo him­self: the most effectual and pleasing measure of rebel­lion, was the withholding the tribute of Italy, and de­priving him of a power which he had recently abusedby the imposition of a new capitation.p A form of ad­ministration was preserved by the election of magistratesand governors: and so high was the public indignation,that the Italians were prepared to create an orthodoxemperor, and to conduct him with a fleet and army tothe palace of Constantinople. In that palace, the Ro­man bishops, the second and third Gregory, were con­demned as the authors of the revolt, and every attemptwas made, either by fraud or force, to seifce their per­sons, and to strike at their lives. The city was repeat­edly visited or assaulted by captains of the guards, anddukes and exarchs of high dignity or secret trust; theylanded with foreign troops, they obtained some domes­tic aid, and the superstition of Naples may blush thather fathers were attached to the cause of heresy. Butthese clandestine or open attacks were repelled by the torem quasi contra hmleni ae armavit, renuens haeresim ejus, scribens ubique secavere Christianas eo quod orta fuisset, impietas talis. Igitur permoti omnesPentapolenses, atque Venetiarum exercitus contra Imperatoris jussionem restite-runt; dicentes se nunquam in ejusdem pontificis condescendere necem, sed proejns magi s defensione viriliter decertare. (p. 156.) P A census, or capitation, says Anastasius; (p. 156.) a most cruel tax, unknownto the Saracens themselves, exclaims the zealous Maimbonrg, (Hisi. des Icono-clastes, lib. 1.) and Theophanes, (p. 344.) who talks of Pharaoh's numbering themale children of Israel. This mode of taxation was familiar to the Saracens;ami, most unluckily for the historian, it was imposed a few years afterward inFrance by his patron Louis XIV. o2