OCR Output 100 LIVY. on both sides, were used to steady combat, and to pre­serve their ranks. But the Macedonian phalanx wasunapt for motion, and composed of similar 'partsthroughout: the Roman line less compact, consistingof several various parts, was easily divided, as occa­sion required, and as easily conjoined. Then whatsoldier is comparable to the Roman in the throwingup of works ? who better calculated to endure fatigue?Alexander if overcome in one battle could make noother effort. The Roman, whom Caudium, whom.Cannae, did not crush, what fight could crush? Intruth, even should events have been favorable to himat first, he would have often wished for the Persians,the Indians, and the effeminate tribes of Asia, as op­ponents ; and would have acknowleged that bis warshad been waged with women, as we are told was saidby Alexander, king of Epirus, after receiving his mor­tal wound, in relation to the battles fought in Asia bythis very youth, and when compared with those inwhich himself had been engaged. Indeed, when I re­flect that in the first Punic war a contest was main­tained by the Romans with the Carthaginians at seafor twenty-four years, I can scarcely suppose that thelife of Alexander would have been long enough for thefinishing of one war with either of those nations. Andperhaps, as the Punic state was united to the Romanby ancient treaties, and as similar apprehensions mightarm against a common foe those two nations the mostpotent of the time, he might have been overwhelmed ina Punic and a Roman war at once. The Romans havehad experience of the boasted prowess of the Macedo­nians in arms, not indeed when they were led byAlexander, or when their power was at the height, butin the wars against Antiochus, Philip, and Perses;and so far were they from sustaining any losses, thatthey incurred not even danger. Let not the truth giveoffence (o any, nor our civil wars be brought into men­tion ; never were we worsted by an enemy's cavalry,never by their infantry, never in open fight, never onequal ground, much less when the ground was favor-