OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. would only serve to oppress the memory and perplex the attentionof the reader. I. As the posterity of the Franks compose one of the greatest and Origin and , confo leracv most enlightened nations of Europe, the powers of learning and oftheFiank*.ingenuity have been exhausted in the discovery of their unletteredancestors. To the tales of credulity, have succeeded the systems offancy. Every passage has been fisted, every spot has been surveyed,that might possibly reveal some faint traces of their origin. It hasbeen supposed, that Pannonia 6?, that Gaul, that the northern partsof Germany6S, gave birth to that celebrated colony of warriors.At length the most rational critics, rejecting the fictitious emigra足tions of ideal conquerors, have acquiesced in a sentiment whose sim足plicity persuades us of its truth 69. They suppose, that about the yeartwo hundred and forty 7% a new confederacy was formed under thename of Franks, by the old inhabitants of the Lower Rhine and theWeser. The present circle of Westphalia, the Landgraviate ofHesse, and the dutchies of Brunswick and Luneburgh, were theancient seat of the Chauci, who, in their inaccessible morassea,defied the Roman arms 71; of the Cherusci, proud of the fameof Arminius j of the Catti, formidable by their firm and intrepidinfantry, and of several other tribes of inferior power and re足nown 7\ The love of liberty was the ruling passion of theseGermans; the enjoyment of it their best treasure; the word thatexpressed that enjoyment, the most pleasing to their ear. Theydeserved, they assumed, they maintained the honourable epithet ofFranks or Freemen; which concealed, though it did not extinguish,the peculiar names of the several states of the confederacy7S. Tacitconsent, and mutual advantage, dictated the first laws of the union;it was gradually cemented by habit and experience. The league ofthe Franks may admit of some comparison with the Helvetic body;in which every canton, retaining its independent sovereignty, con足sults with its brethren in the common cause, without acknow- L 1 2 ledging