OCR Output 356 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK. IV. The Vejentes, elated with their success, sent ambas­sadors to all the nations of Etruria, boasting that theyhad defeated three Roman generals in one pitched battle:they could not however prevail with any of these siatesopenly to espouse their cause, but the hopes <.l plunderdrew volunteers from all quarters. The Fidenates werethe only people who were pleased to ami. And as if ithad been unlawful to commence a war, without some ex­traordinary guilt on their side, they sullied their arms withthe blood of the new coiouy, as they had, on anotheroccasion, done with that of the ambassadors, and thenjoined the Vejentes. The question now- between thechiefs of these two nations came to be, whether theyshould make Veii, or Fidenae, the seat of the war. Fi-den& was agreed on as the most proper. Wherefore, cros­sing the Tiber, the Vejentes carried the war to Fidenae.Rome was in ihe utmost terror ; wherefore, recallingtheirarmy .from .Veii, whose spirits were much depressed onaccount of the late miscarriage, a camp was formed be­fore the gate Collina. Guards were posted on the walls,the administration of justice was suspended, the shopswere shut, and all things resembled a camp, more thana city. « CHAP. XXXII. The dictator addresses the People. Action with theConfederates. HILST the city was in this consternation, the dic­tator seat about public criers through all the streets, toSummon an assembly of the people, when he began withreproaching them,.' For suffering themselves to be somuch alarmed, at the most trivial accidents. Thai aninconsiderable los? , not occasioned by the enemy's va­lour, nor the cowardice of the Roman army, but by adisagreement among the commanders, should makethem afraid of the Vejentes, an enemy who had fledbefore them, six several times: and of the Fidenates,whose capital they had taken oltener, if possible, thanthey had even laid siege to it. The Romans and theenemy were the same sort of men they bad been for so,many ages. With regard to courage, strength of body,