OCR Output CMAP. XLVII. 51 synod, whose name was pronounced with sincere or af­fected reverence by the Catholic world. If these bishops,whether innocent or guilty, were annihilated in thesleep of death, they would not probably be awakenedby the clamour, which after a hundred years was raisedover their grave. If they were already in the fangs ofthe demon, their torments could neither be aggravatednor assuaged by human industry. If in the cortfpanyof saints and angels they enjoyed the rewards of piety,they must have smiled at the idle fury of the theologi­cal insects who still crawled on the surface of the earth.The foremost of these insects, the emperor of the Ro­mans, darted his sting, and distilled the venom, perhapswithout discerning the true motives of Theodora andher ecclesiastical faction. The victims were no longetsubject to his power, and the vehement style of his edictscould only proclaim their damnation, and invite theclergy of the east to join in a full chords of curses andFHa» ge- anathemas. The- east, with e&me hesitation,council of consented to the voice of her sovereign: thetj^pj!T fiftn general council, of three patriarchs and oneA.D.553, hundred and sixty five bishops was held atJune«. ConSfentinople; and the authors, as well asthe defenders of the three chapters, were separated fromthe communion of the saints, and solemnly delivered tothe prince of darkness. But the Latin churches weremore jealous of the honour of Leo and the synod ofChalcedon; and if they had fought as they usually didunder the standard of Rome, they might have prevailedin the cause of reason and humanity. But their chiefwas a prisoner in the hands of the enemy, the throne ofSt. Peter, which had been disgraced by the simorty, wasbetrayed by the cowardice of Vigilius, who yielded,after a long and inconsistent struggle, to the despotismof Justinian and the sophistry of the Greeks. His apo-stacy provoked the indignation of the Latins, and nfc'more than two bishops could be found who would itn- E2