OCR Output 196 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII. of the town, with the whole of their strength, in orderto meet Gylippus for by this time they had receivedintelligence that he was actually approaching. Gylippus, upon his route, had made himself masterof Iegas, a fortress belonging to the Siculi; and now,at the head of his army, drawn up in order of battle, hecomes up to Epipolse. Having mounted by the passof Euryalus, as the Athenians had done on their first:approach, he marched, in Conjunction with the Syra­cusans, toward the Athenian circumvallation. Hehappened to arrive in that critical juncture, when theAthenians had completely finished * seven or eight stadiaof the double wall extending to the great harbour jwhen, in consequence, but a very small part remainedincomplete; and on which they were labouring withtheir highest application. On the other side of their cir­cle, towards Trogilus, the stones for completing theirwork had been laid ready in heaps almost down to thebeach, and some parts of their work on that side stoodbut half completed, though others had received the fi-, nishing hand. To such extremity of danger were theSyracusans now reduced. Gylippus and the Syracusans coming thus suddenlyupon them, the Athenians at first were struck with con­sternation; but formed, however, in order of battle, togive them a reception. But Gylippus, having orderedhis forces to halt, dispatcheth a herald to the Athe­nians, proclaiming that, " in case they would evacu-** ate Sicily within the space of five days, with their"arms and baggage, he would readily grant them a"truce." Such offers they received in a contemptuousmanner jf and, disdaining to return an answer4 ordered * About J of a mile. Nicias (fays Plalareb) disdained to return an answer. But seme of hit soldierslaughed outright, and asked "If, at the arrival of a mantle and stasf from Sparta,"the Syracusans were become so full of spirits as to despise the Athenians; who*• had lately given up to the Lacedæmonians three hundred of their countrymen"who had been their prisoners, all of them better soldiers, and who combed"their hair, too, much hetter, than Gylippus."