OCR Output 134 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX. of wickedness ; a slave to his pleasures, and a lover of calumny;greatly affected by every terrible accident, and on that accountwf a very murderous disposition, where he durst shew it. Heenjoyed his exorbitant power to this only purpose, to injure thosewho least deserved it, with unreasonable insolence, and got hiswealth by murder and injustice. He laboured to appear aboveregarding either what was divine or agreeable to the laws, butwas a slave to the commendations of the populace ; and whatso­ever the laws determined to be shameful, and punished, that heesteemed more honourable than what was virtuous. He wasunmindful of his friends, how intimate soever, and though theywere persons of the highest character; and, if he was once angryat any of them, he would inflict punishment upon them on thesmallest occasions, and esteemed every man that endeavoured tolead a virtuous life his enemy. And whatsoever he command­ed, he would not admit of any contradiction to his inclinations ;whence it was that he had criminal conversation with his ownsister * ; from which occasion chiefly it was also, that a bitter ha­tred first sprang up against him among the citizens, that sort ofincest not having been known of a long time ; and so this provo­ked men to distrust him, and to hate him that was guilty of it.And for any great or royal work that he ever did, which mightbe for the present and for future ages, nobody can name anysuch, but only the haven that he made about Rhegium and Si­cily, for the reception of the ships that brought corn from E-gypt; which was indeed a work without dispute very great initself, and of very great advantage to the navigation. Yet wasnot this work brought to perfection by him, but was the onehalf of it left imperfect, by reason of his want of applicationto it; the cause of which was this, that he employed his stu­dies about useless matters, and that by spending his moneyupon such pleasures as concerned no one's benefit but hisown, he could not exert his liberality in things that wereundeniably of great consequence. Otherwise he was an ex­cellent orator, and thoroughly acquainted with the Greektongue, as well as with his own country or Roman language.He was also able, off-hand and readily, to give answers tocompositions made by others, of considerable length and ac­curacy. He was also more skilful in persuading others to verygreat things than any one else, and this from a natural affa­bility » Spanheim here notes from Suetonius, that the name of Caius's sister, withwhom he was guilty of incest, was Tirusilla ; and that Suetonius adds, he wasguilty of the same crime with all his sisters also. He notes farther, that Suete.nius omits the mention of the haven for ships, which our author esteems the en.ly public work for the good of the present and future ages which Caius left be-Vuid him, though in an imperfect condition.