OCR Output xxxvi On the Life of Thuctdides. by surprise of the important city of Amphipolis: He hadvery nearly succeeded. Eucles commanded there for theAthenians. Thucydides was at this time in the isle ofThasus, about half a day's sail from Amphipolis. A mes­senger was dispatched to him, to hasten him up for the de­fence of that city. He put to sea immediately with a smallsquadron of seven ships. Brasidas, knowing he was com­ing, opened a negotiation with the Amphipolitans, andgained admission for his troops. Thucydides stood up theStrymon in the evening, but too late, since Brasidas had gotfast possession of Amphipolis. The city of Eton is situatedalso upon the river Strymon lower down, and about two milesand a half from Amphipolis. Thucydides put in here, andsecured the place. " Brasidas (in his own words*) had de-" signed that very night to seize Eton also. And, unless" this squadron had come in thus critically to its defence, at" break of day it had been lost." Thucydides, without losinga moment, provided for its defence. Brasidas, with armedboats, fell down the river from Amphipolis, and made twoattempts upon it, but was repulsed in both: tJpon which, hegave up the scheme, and returned back. One would imagine that Thucydides had done all thatcould be done on this occasion, and deserved to be thankedinstead of punished. The people of Athens made a differentdetermination. Cleon was now the demagogue of greatestinfluence there, and is generally supposed to have exasperatedthem against the man, who had not wrought impossibilitiesin saving their valuable town of Amphipolis. It is certaintheir fury rose so high against him, that they stripped Thucy­dides of his command, and passed the sentence of banish­ment upon him. It is himself who tells usf, " It was his lot" to suffer a twenty years exile from his country after the" affair of Amphipolis." We have thus lost Thucydides the commander to securemore fast Thucydides the historian. Though sadly treated,• Book the fourth. f B°°k the fifth.