OCR Output 34 VESPASIAN. [B. III. 19. When, therefore, Vespasian looked upon himself as ina manner besieged by these sallies of the Jews, and when hisbanks were not now far from the walls, he determined to makeuse of his battering-ram. This ram is a vast beam of wood,like the mast of a ship; its forepart is armed with a thickpiece of iron at the head of it, which is so carved as to be likethe head of a ram, whence its name is taken. This ram isslung in the air by ropes passing over its middle, and is hunglike the balance in a pair of scales from another beam, andbraced by strong beams that pass on both sides of it in thenature of a cross. When this ram is pulled backward by agreat number of men with united force, and then thrust for­ward by the same men with a mighty noise, it batters the wallwith that iron part which is prominent. Nor is there anytower so strong or walls so broad that one can resist any morethan its first batteries, but are all forced to yield to it at last.This was the experiment which the Roman general betookhimself to, when he was eagerly bent upon taking the city;but found lying in the field so long to be to his disadvantage,because the Jews would never let him be quiet. So theseRomans brought the several engines for galling an enemynearer to the walls, that they might reach such as were uponthe walls, and endeavored to frustrate their attempts ; thesethrew stones and javelins at them; in the like manner didthe archers and slingers come both together closer to thewalls. This brought matters to such a pass that none of theJews durst mount the walls; and then it was that the otherRomans brought the battering-ram, which was cased withhurdles all over, and in the upper part was secured by skinsthat covered it, and this both for the security of themselvesand of the engine. Now at the very first stroke of this en­gine the wall was shaken, and a terrible clamor was raisedby the people within the city, as if they were already taken. 20. And now when Josephus saw this ram still batteringthe same place, and that the wall would quickly be throwndown by it, he resolved to elude for a while the force of theengine: with this design he gave orders to fill sacks withchaff, and to hang them down before that place where they