OCR Output 200 ROMAN EMPIRE. and a reservoir of fresh water is preserved in a large bag,a fifth stomach of the animal, whose body is imprintedwith the marks of servitude: the larger breed is capableof transporting a weight of a thousand pounds; and thedromedary, of a lighter and more active frame, outstripsthe fleetest courser in the race. Alive or dead, almostevery part of the camel is serviceable to man: her milkis plentiful and nutritious: the younger and tender fleshhas the taste of veal:" a valuable salt is extracted fromthe urine: the dung supplies the deficiency of fuel; andthe long hair,-which falls each year and is renewed, iscoarsely manufactured into the garments, the furniture,and the tents, of the Bedoweens. In the rainy seasonsthey consume the rare and insufficient herbage of the de­sert: during the heats of summer and the scarcity of win­ter, they remove their encampments to the sea-coast, thehills of Yemen, or the neighbourhood of the Euphrates,and have often extorted the dangerous licence of visit­ing the banks of the Nile, and the villages of Syria andPalestine. The life of a wandering Arab is a life ofdanger and distress; and though sometimes, by rapineor exchange, he may appropriate the fruits of industry,a private citizen in Europe is in the possession of moresolid and pleasing luxury, than the proudest emir, whomarches in the field at the head of ten thousand horse,cities of Yet an essential difference may be found be-Arabia. tween the nordes of Scythia and the Arabiantribes, since many of the latter were collected into townsand employed in the labours of trade and agriculture.A part of their time and industry was still devoted tothe management of their cattle: they mingled, in peaceand war, with their brethren of the desert; and theBedoweens derived from their useful intercourse, somesupply of their wants, and some rudiments of art and "Qui camibus camelorum vesci solent odii tenaces sunt, was the opinion of anArabian Physician. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 8R ) Mahomet himself, who was fond ofmilk, prefers the cow, and does not even mention the camel; but the diet of Mecca,and Medina was already more luxurious. (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 4O4.)