OCR Output 378 LIVY. medon appeared utterly inconsistent. He made lightof the war with the Romans; and asserted, that theissue of it would be similar to that of the former whichthey waged against Philip. If such be the case, whydoes he, at a distance, solicit our assistance, ratherthan come hither in person, and defend us, his old al­lies, both from Nabis and from the Romans? Us, doI say? Why, then, has he suffered Eretria and Ca-rystus to be taken? Why so many cities of Thessaly?Why Locris and Phocis? Why does he at presentsuffer Elatia to be besieged? Did he, either throughcompulsion, or fear, or choice, quit the straits of Epi-rus, and those impregnable fastnesses on the riverAous: and why, abandoning the possession of the pass,did he retire into his own kingdom? If, of his ownwill, he gave up so many allies to the ravages of theenemy, what objection can he make to these allies,after his example, taking care of themselves? Ifthrough fear, he ought to pardon the like fear in us:if his retreat was in consequence of a defeat, let meask you, Cleomedon, shall we, Achasans, be able towithstand the Roman arms, which you, Macedonians,have not withstood? Are we to give credit to yourassertion, that the Romans do not employ, in the pre­sent war, greater forces or greater strength than theydid in the former, or are we to regard the real facts?In the first instance, they aided the iEtolians with afleet; they sent not to the war either a consul as com­mander, or a consular army. The maritime cities ofPhilip's allies were in terror and confusion; but theinland places so secure against the Roman arms, thatPhilip ravaged the country of the JEtolians, while theyin vain implored succor from those arms. Whereas,in the present case, the Romans, after bringing to afinal conclusion the Punic war, which, raging for six­teen years in the bowels, as it were, of Italy, had giventhem abundance of trouble, sent not auxiliaries to thejEtolians in their quarrels, but, being themselves prin­cipals, made a hostile invasion on Macedonia with landand sea forces at once. Their third consul is now,