OCR Output JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. » IIL Waixs. I. Cpper City and OU Wall —" Of the threewalla, the old one was difficult to be taken, both onaccount of the ravines, and of the eminence abovethem on which it was situated, lint, in addition tothe advantage of the position, it was also stronglybuilt, as David and Solomon, and the kings aftertbetn, were very zealous about the work. Beginningtowards the north, from the tower called Hippicus,and passing through the place called Xystus, thenJoining the council chamber, it was united to thewestern cloister of the Temple. In the other di­rection, towards the west, commencing from the sameplace, and extending through a place called Bethsoto the gate of the Essenes, and then turning towardsthe south above the fountain Siloam, thence againbending toward the east to the Poo] of Solomon, andrunning through a place which they called Ophla, itwas joined to the eastern cloister of the Temple."To understand this description, it is only necessaryto remark, that the walls are described, not by thedirection in which they run, but by the quarter whichthey face | i. e. the wall" turning towards the south"i» the south wall, and so with the others; so that theliippic Tower evidently lay at the NW. angle of theUpper City; and, as the position of this tower is ofthe first importance in the description of the citywalls, it is a fortunate circumstance that we are ableto fix its exact site. (1) The Hippie Tower is mentioned in connectionwith two neighbouring towers on the same northwall, all bnilt by Herod the Great, and connectedwith his splendid palace that occupied the north-west angle of the Upper C ity. "These towers," saysthe historian, " surpassed all in the world in extent,beauty, and strength, and were dedicated to thememory of his brother, his friend, and his best lovedwife. * The Hippiau, named from his friend, was asquare of 25 cubits, and thirty high, entirely solid.Above the part which was solid, and constructed withmassive stones, was a reservoir for the rain-water,20 cubits in depth; and above this a house of twostories, 25 cubits high, divided into different apart­ments; above which were battlements of 2 cubits, ona parapet of 3 cubits, making the whole height 80cubits. (2) " The TowerPhasaeltu,-which was named fromhis brother, was 40 cubits square, and solid to theheight of 40 cubits; but above it was erected acloister 10 cubits high, fortified with breastworksand ramparts; in the middle of the cloister wascarried up another tower, divided into costly cham­bers and a bath-room, so that the tower was innothing inferior to a palace. Its summit was adornedwith parapets and battlements, more than the pre­ceding. It was in all 90 cubits high, and resembledthe tower of Pharos near Alexandria, but was ofmuch larger circumference. (3) " The Tower Mariamne was solid to the heightof 30 cubits, and 20 cubits square, having above aricher and more exquisitely ornamented dwelling.Its entire height was 55 cubits. M Such in size were the three towers; but theylooted much larger through the site which theyoccupied; for both the old wall itself, in the range ofwhich they stood, was bnilt upon a lofty eminence,and likewise a kind of crest of this eminence reareditself to the height of 30 cnbits, on which the towersbring situated received much additional elevation. The towers wero constructed of white marble, inblocks of 20 cubits long, 10 wide, and 5 deep, soexactly joined together that each tower appeared tobe one mass of rock." Now, the modern citadel of Jerusalem occupies theN\V. angle of Mount Sion, and its northern wallrises from a deep fosse, having towers at either angle,the bases of which are protected on the outside bymassive masonry sloping upward from the fosse.The NW. tower, divided only by the trench from theJaffa gate, is a square of 45 feet. The NE., con>monly known as the Tower of David, is 70 feet3 inches long, by 56 feet 4 inches bnmd. Thesloping bulwark is 40 feet high from the bottom ofthe trench; but this is much choked up with rubbish.To the tower part there is no known or visible en­trance, either from above or below, and no one knowsof any room or space in it. The lower part of thisplatform is, indeed, the solid rock merely cut intoshape, and faced with massive masonry, which rockrises to the height of 42 feet. This rock is doubt­less the crest of the hill described by Josephus as30 cubits or 45 feet high. Now, if the dimensionsof Hippicus and Phasaelus, as already given, arecompared with those of the modern towers on thenorth side of the citadel, we find that the dimensionsof that at the NW. angle—three of whose sides aredetermined by the scarped rock on which it is based—so nearly agree with those of Hippicus, and thewidth of the NE. tower—also determined by the cutrock—so nearly with the square of Phasaelus, thatthere can be no difficulty in deciding upon theiridentity of position. Mariamne has entirely dis­appeared. "To these towers, situated on the north, wasjoined within — (4) " The Jiogal Palace, surpassing all powers ofdescription. It was entirely surrounded by a wall30 cubits high, with decorated towers at equal in­tervals, and contained enormous banquetting halls,besides numerous chambers richly adorned. Therewere also many porticoes encircling one another,with different columns to each, surrounding greencourts, planted with a variety of trees, having longavenues through them j and deep channels and re­servoirs everywhere around, filled with bronze sta­tues, through which the water flowed; and manytowers of tame pidgeons about the fountains." This magnificent palace, unless the description isexaggerated beyond all licence, must have occupieda larger space than the present fortress, and mostprobably its gardens extended along the westernedge of Mount Sion as far as the present garden ofthe Armenian Convent; and the decorated towers ofthis part of the wall, which was spared by the Ro­mans when they levelled the remainder of the city,seem to have transmitted their name to modemtimes, as the west front of the city wall at this jjartis called Abrot/i Ghazzeh, i. e. Tlie Towers of Gaza. (5) As the Xystus is mentioned next to theHippicus by Josephus, in his description of the northwall of the Upper City, it may be well to proceed atonce to that; deferring the consideration of the GateGennath, which obviously occurred between the two,until we come to the Second Wall. The Xystus isproperly a covered portico attached to the GreekGymnasium, which commonly had uncovered walksconnected with it. (JJitL Ant. p. 580.) Asthe Jerusalem Xystus was a place where publiemeetings were occasionally convened {Bell. Jud. ii.6. § 3), it must be understood to be a wide public C2