OCR Output 172 LEUCOTHEES FANUM. LEUKI. nate all the inhabitants of the country by their na­tive, or rather Persian name, Cappadoccs ; but itwas applied more particularly to the inhabitants ofthe coast district on the Euxine, between the riversHalys and Iris. (Herat. Fragm. 194, 200, 350;Marcian. Heracl. p. 72.) Ptolemy (v. 6. § 2) alsoapplies the name exclusively to the inhabitants aboutthe Iris, and treats of their country as a jart of theprovince of Cappadocia. The Leucosyri were regardedas colonists, who had been planted there during theearly conquests of the Assyrians, and were succes­sively subject to Lydia, Persia, and Macedonia;but after the time of Alexander their name isscarcely mentioned, the people having become entirelyamalgamated with the nations among which theylived. [L.S.] LEUCOTHEES FANUM (Afiwofftas JcpoV), atemple and oracle in the district of the Moschi inColchis. Its legendary founder was Phryxus; thetemple was plundered by Pharnaccs and then byMithridatcs. (Strab. xi. p. 498.) The site has beenplaced near Sutxtm, on the frontiers of Imiretia andKartuhlia, where two large "tumuli" are nowfound. (Dubois de Montpereux, Voyage Autour duCaucase, vol. ii. p. 349, com p. p. 17, vol. iii. p.171.) [E.B.J.] LEUC0THE1UM. [Leucolla.] LEUCTRA (ra Affwrrpa). 1. A Tillage ofBoeotia, situated on the road from Thespiae toPlataea (Strab. ix. p. 414), and in the territory ofthe former city. (Xen. Hell, vi. 4. § 4). Its nameonly occurs in history on account of the celebratedbattle fought in its neighbourhood between theSpartans and Thebans, B.C. 371, by which thesupremacy of Sparta was for ever overthrown. Inthe plain of Leuctra, was the tomb of the twodaughters of Scedasus, a Leuctrian, who had beenviolated by two Spartans, and had afterwards slainthemselves; this tomb was crowned with wreathsby Epaminondas before the battle, since an oraclehad predicted tliat the Spartans would be defeatedat this spot (Xen. I/ell. vi. 4. § 7; Diod. xv. 54;Paus. ix. 13. § 3; Plut Peiop. cc. 20, 21). Thecity of Leuctra, is sometimes supposed to be repre­sented by the extensive ruins at Lefka (A«i/*a),which are situated immediately below the modernvillage of liimokastro. But these ruins are clearlythose of Thespiae, as appears from the inscriptionsfound there, as well as from their importance; furLeuctra was never anything more than'a village inthe territory of Thespiae, and had apparentlyceased to exist in the time of Strabo, who calls itsimply a r6iros (x. p. 414). The real bite ofLeuctra, " is very clearly marked by a tumulus andsome artificial ground on the summit of the ridgewhich borders the southern side of the valley ofThespiae. The battle of Leuctra was fought pro­bably iu the valley on the northern side of thetumulus, about midway between Thespiae, and thewestern extremity of the plain of Plataea. Cleom-brotus, in order to avoid the Boeotians, who wereexpecting him by the direct route from Phocia,marched by Thisbe and the valleys on the southernside of Mount Helicon; and having thus made hisappearance suddenly at Crcusis, the port of Thespiae,raptured that fortress. From thence, be movedupnn Leuctra, where he intrenched himself on arising ground; after which the Tin-bans encampedon an opposite hill, at no great distance. The[MMtinn of the latter, thereforr, n-em« to have beenon the eastern prolongation of the height of iiimo- kastro? (Leake.) The tumulus is probably tl*place of sepulture of the 1000 I*acedaemoniana wh»fell in the battle. For a full account of thiscelebrated contest, see Grote, //iff. ofGrttcr, vol. x.p. 239, seq. In ancient times, the neighbouriio>.4of Leuctra appears to have been well wooded, as w«may infer from the epithet of "»hady" bestowedupon it by the oracle of Delphi (Afwrrpa e-xtoirra,Paus. ix. 14. § 3); but at present there is seanvlfa shrub or a tree to be seen in the surrouridii *country. (Leake, North, Greece vol. iL p. 4S0. *c>\. 2. Or Leuctrum (to Atvtcrpa, Paus.; ts A«mc-rpov, Strab., Plut., Ptol.), a town of Laconia,situated on the eastern side of the Mcssenian gulf,20 stadia north of Pephnus, and 60 stadia soutii «fCardamyle. Strabo speaks of Leuctrum as nearthe minor Pamisus, but this river flows into the seaat Pephnus, about three miles south of Leuctrum[Pephnus]. The ruins of Leuctrum are stillcalled Isflro. Leuctrum was said to have beenfounded by Pelops, and was claimed by the Messe-nians as originally one of their towns. It wisawarded to the latter people by Philip in a.c 338,but in the time of the Roman empire it was one ufthe Elcuthero-Laconian places. (Strab. viii. pp.360, 361; Paus. iii. 21. § 7, iii. 26. § 4, seq.;Wut.Pclop. 20; Plin.iv.5. s. 8; Ptol. iii. 16-§9.)Pausanias saw in Leuctra a temple and statue <■*Athena on the Acropolis, a temple and statue ofCassandra (there called Alexandra), a marble statueof Asclepius, another of Ino, and wooden figuresof Apollo Carneius. (Paus. iii. 26. § 4, acq).(Leake, Aforea, vol. i. p. 331, PtloponnesiocxL,p. 179; Boblaye, Recherchti, fcc. p. 93; CarttosPeloponnetos, vol. ii. p. 285.) 3. Or Lkl'CTRL'M (ra A«wrrpa, Thnc Xen.: tsAtvKTpov, Paus.), a fortress of the districr Aecytis,on the confines of Arcadia and Laconia, described byThurydides (v. 54) as on the confines of Laconiatowards Mt. Lycaeus, and by Xenophon (//e/i. w, it.§ 24). It was originally an Arcadian town, butwas included in the territory of Laconia. (lime./. c.) It commanded one of the passes leading intoLaconia, by which a portion uf the Theban armypenetrated into the country on their first iiivauucunder Epaminondas. (Xen. Lc.) It was detachedfrom Sparta by Epaminondas, and added to theterritory of Megalopolis. (Paus. viii. 27. § 4.)It appears to have stood on the direct road (rataSparta to Megalopolis, either at or near LeomUri,in which position it was originally placed by Leake;and this seems more probable than the site »u6-sequently assigned to it by the same writer, whosupposes that both Leuctra and MaJea were on theroute from Megalopolis to Carnasiutn. [Malka.](Leake, Mtrrta, vol. ii. p. 322, VtlofMmnttutca,p. 248; Curtios, Pehponne*os} voL L p. 336.) LEUCTKUM. [Lkuctka.]LEl'CUS. [Pydna.] LEVI. [PALAKSTINA.] LEUXI (A«u»o(), a tribe of the \lnotiiri, which Ptolemy (ii. 13. § 1) places between the Kunjra:«»and C'onsuantae. The form ot the luune ha* t+mthe subject of discussion; Mannert mainUinuaj; thatit ought to be writ ten Aatrrot, and that it is thegeneral name of several tribes in those part*, »tifhas the BtrXavyot anil 'AAawof. But nothing? ear-tain can be said about the matter; and all we knowis, that the Leuni must have dwelt at the foes rfthe Alps of Salzburg, in the south eastern part <*TBavaria. [l~£*]