OCR Output 400 LIVY. of Quintus Fabius, the son of bis wife's sister, QuintusFulvius, and Appius Claudius. 37. On their arrival at Rome, the ambassadors ofthe allies were admitted to audience before those ofthe king. Their discourse, in general, was filled upwith invectives against Philip. What produced thegreatest effect on the minds of the senate was, that,by pointing out the relative situations of the lands andseas in that part of the world, they made it manifest toevery one that if the king held Demetrias in Thessaly,Chalcis in Euboea, and Corinth in Achaia, Greececould not he free; and they added, that Philip him­self, with not more insolence than truth, used to callthese the fetters of Greece. The king's ambassadorswere then introduced, and, when they were beginninga long harangue, they were stopped by a short ques­tion, Whether he was willing to yield up the threeabove-mentioned cities? They answered, that they hadreceived no specific instructions on that head: on whichthey were dismissed, without having made any pro­gress towards a peace. Full authority was given toQuintius to determine every thing relative to war andpeace. As this demonstrated clearly that the senatewere not weary of the war, so he who was moreearnestly desirous of conquest than of peace, neverafterwards consented to a conference with Philip; andeven gave him notice that he would not admit any em­bassy from him, unless it came with information thathis troops were retiring from Greece. 38. Philip now perceived that he must decide thematter by arms, and collect his strength about himfrom all quarters. Being particularly uneasy in re­spect to the cities of Achaia, a country so distant fromhim, and also of Argos, even more, indeed, than ofCorinth, he resolved, as the most advisable method, toput the former into the hands of Nabis, tyrant of Lace-daemon, in trust as it were, on the terms, that if heshould prove successful in the war, Nabis should re­deliver it to him; if any misfortune should happen, he