OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL 432 The defeat,April 30. and death ofthe former.August. fortune of a civil war. He moved out of Syria towards the frontiersof Bithynia in the depth of winter. The season was severe andtempestuous; great numbers of men as well as horses perishedin the snow; and as the roads were broken up by incessant rains,he was obliged to leave behind him a considerable part of theheavy baggage which was unable to follow the rapidity of his forcedmarches. By this extraordinary effort of diligence, he arrived,with a harassed but formidable army on the banks of the ThracianBosphorus, before the lieutenants of Licinius were apprized of hishostile intentions. Byzantium surrendered to the power of Max-imin, after a siege of eleven days. He was detained some day*under the walls of Heraclea ; (and he had no sooner taken possessionof that city, than he was alarmed by the intelligence, that Liciniushad pitched his camp at the distance of only eighteen miles. Aftera fruitless negociation, in which the two princes attempted toseduce the fidelity of each other's adherents, they had recourseto arms. The emperor of the East commanded a disciplined and■veteran army of above seventy thousand men, and Licinius, whohad collected about thirty thousand Illyrians, was at first oppressedby the superiority of numbers. His military skill, and the firmnessof his troops restored the day, and obtained a decisive victory. Theincredible speed which Maximin excited in his flight, is much morecelebrated than his prowess in the battle. Twenty-four hours after­wards he was seen pale, trembling, and without his imperial orna­ments, at Nicomedia, one hundred and sixty miles from the place ofhis defeat. The wealth of Asia was yet unexhausted ; and though theflower of his veterans had fallen in the late actiqn, he had still power, ifhe could obtain time, to draw very numerous levies from Syria andEgypt. But he survived his misforune only three or four months.His death, which happened at Tarsus, was variously ascribed to despair,to poison, and to the divine justice. As Maximin was alike destituteof abilities and of virtue, he was lamented neither by the people nor b7