OCR Output 328 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. ability, but insubordinate; the army assigned to them waseven in numbers three times weaker than the army of Sulla.Tidings successively arrived, that Flaccus, in order not tobe crushed by Sulla, had marched past him onward to Asia86. (668) ; that Fimbria had set him aside and installed himself85. in his room (beg. of 6C9); that Sulla had concluded peace85-84. with Mithradates (669-670). Hitherto Sulla had been silentso far as the authorities ruling in the capital were con足cerned. Now a letter from him reached the senate, in -whichhe reported the termination of the war and announced hisreturn to Italy; he stated that he would respect the rightsconferred on the new burgesses, and that, while measures ofpunishment were inevitable, they would light not on themasses, but on the authors of the mischief. This announce足ment frightened Cinna out of his inaction: while he hadhitherto taken no step against Sulla except the placing somemen under arms and collecting a number of vessels in theAdriatic, he now resolved to cross in all haste to Greece.ut tsat On the other hand Sulla's letter, which in the circum-a compro- stances might be called extremely moderate, awakened inmisc. the middle-party hopes of a peaceful adjustment. The majority of the senate resolved, on the proposal of the elderFlaccus, to set on foot an attempt at reconciliation, and withthat view to summon Sulla to come under the guarantee of asafe-conduct to Italy, and to suggest to the consuls Cinnaand Carbo that they should suspend their preparations tillthe arrival of Sulla's answer. Sulla did not absolutelyreject the proposals. Of course he did not come in person,but he sent a message that he asked nothing but the resto足ration of the banished to their former status and the judicialpunishment of the crimes that had been perpetrated, andmoreover that he did not desire security to be provided forhimself, but proposed to bring it to those who were at home.His envoys found the state of things in Italy essentiallyaltered. Cinna had, without concerning himself furtherabout that decree of the senate, immediately after the ter足mination of its sitting proceeded to the army and urged it*embarkation. The summons to trust themselves to the seaat that unfavourable season of the year provoked among thealready dissatisfied troops in the head-quarters at AnconaDeath of a mutiny, to which Cinna fell a victim (beg. of 670); where-Cinna. [84. upon his colleague Carbo found himself compelled to bringCarbo and kack ^ divisions that had already crossed and, abandoning