OCR Output AN. 1106.] 199 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. did not grant that forgiveness which the pro­phet solicited; as not deeming it a fit thing togrant forgiveness of such sins at his entrea­ties; since injuries do not otherwise grow sogreat, as by the easy tempers of those thatare injured. For while they seek after theglory of being thought gentle and good-na­tured, before they are aware, they produceother sins. As soon therefore as God had re­jected the intercession of the prophet, and itplainly appeared he would not change hismind; at break of day Samuel came to Saulto Gilgal. When the king saw him, he ranto him, and embraced him, and said, "I re­turn thanks to God, who hath given me thevictory; for I have performed every thingthat he hath commanded." Samuel replied:"How is it then that I hear the bleating ofthe sheep, and the lowing of the greater cattlein the camp?"* Saul made answer, that thepeople had reserved them for sacrifices; butthat, as to the nation of the Amalekites, itwas entirely destroyed; as he had receivedit in command to see done, and that no oneman was left; but that he had saved alive theking alone, and brought him to him; con­cerning whom he said they would advisetogether what should be done with him.But the prophet said, "God is not delightedwith sacrifices; but with good and righteousmen, who are such as follow his will and hislaws; and never think that any thing is welldone by them, but when they do it as Godcommanded them; that he then looks uponnimself as affronted; not when any one doesnot sacrifice, but when any one appears dis­obedient to him. But that from those thatdo not obey him, nor pay him that dutywhich is the true and acceptable worship, hewill not kindly accept their oblations; bethose they offer never so many and so fat, andbe the presents they make him never so orna­mental; nay, though they were made of goldand silver themselves. But he will rejectthem, and esteem them instances of wicked­ness, and not of piety. And that he is de­lighted with those that still bear in mind thisone thing, how to do that, whatsoever it be,which God pronounces or commands forthem to do; and to choose rather to die, thanto transgress any of those commands. Nor * 1 Sam. xr. 14. does he require so much as a sacrifice fromthem; and when these sacrifice, though it bea mean oblation, he better accepts of it, asthe honour of poverty; than such oblationsas come from the richest men that offer themto him. Wherefore take notice, that thou artunder the wrath of God; for thou hast de­spised and neglected what he commandedthee. How dost thou then suppose he willrespect a sacrifice out of such things as hehas doomed to destruction? unless perhapsthou dost imagine that it is almost all one tooffer it in sacrifice to God, as to destroy it.Do thou therefore expect that thy kingdomwill be taken from thee, and that authoritywhich thou hast abused by such insolent be­haviour, as to neglect that God who bertowedit upon thee." Then did Saul confess thathe had acted unjustly, and did not deny thathe had sinned; because he had transgressedthe injunctions of the prophet; but he said,that it was out of dread and fear of thesoldiers, that he did not restrain them, whenthey seized on the prey. "But forgive me,"said he, " and be merciful to me; for 1 will becautious how I offend for the time to come."He also intreated the prophet to go back withhim, that he might offer his thank-offerings toGod. But Samuel went home, because hesaw that God would not be reconciled to him.But Saul was so desirous to retain Samuel,that he took hold of his cloak; and becausethe vehemence of Samuel's departure madethe motion to be violent, the cloak was rent.Upon which the prophet said, that after thesame manner should the kingdom be rentfrom him; and that a good and a just manshould take it; that Cod persevered in whathe had decreed about him; that to be mu­table and changeable in what is determined,is agreeable to human passions only; but itis not agreeable to the divine power. Here­upon Saul said that he had been wicked; butthat what was done could not be undone.He therefore desired him to honour him sofar, that the multitude might see that hewould accompany him in worshipping God.So Samuel granted him that favour; andwent with him and worshipped God. Agagalso, the king of the Amalekites, was broughtto him; and when the king asked, how bitterdeath was? Samuel said, As thou hast mademany of the Hebrew mothers to lament and