OCR Output 182 ROMAN EMPIRE. the east and west have been decorated by the pencil ofSt. Luke; and the evangelist, who was perhaps a phy­sician, has been forced to exercise the occupation of apainter, so profane and odious in the eyes of the pri­mitive Christians. The Olympian Jove, created bythe muse of Homer and the chisel of Phidias, mightinspire a philosophic mind with momentary devotion;but these Catholic images were faintly and flatly deli­neated by monkish artists, in the last degeneracy oftaste and genius." The worship of images had stolen into thechurch by insensible degrees, and each pettyworship. step was pleasing to the superstitious mind,as productive of comfort and innocent of sin. But inthe beginning of the eighth century, in the full magni­tude of the abuse, the more timorous Greeks wereawakened by an apprehension, that, under the maskof Christianity, they had restored the religion of theirfathers: they heard, with grief and impatience, thename of idolaters; the incessant charge of the Jewsand Mahometans/ who derived from the law and theKoran an immortal hatred to graven images and allthe relative worship. The servitude of the Jews mightcurb their zeal and depreciate their authority; but thetriumphant Mussulmans, who reigned at Damascus,and threatened Constantinople, cast into the scale ofreproach the accumulated weight of truth and victory.The cities of Syria, Palestine, and Egypt, had been for­tified with the images of Christ, his mother and hissaints; and each city presumed on the hope or promiseof miraculous defence. In a rapid conquest of ten years,the Arabs subdued those cities and these images; and, 0 " Your scandalous figures stand quite out from the canvas: they are as bada* a groupe of statues!" It was thus that the ignorance and bigotry of a Greekpriest applauded the picture of Titian, which he had ordered, and refused to P By Cedrenus, ZonaraJ, Glycas, and Manasses, the origin of the Iconoclasts isimputed to the caliph Yezid and two Jews, who promised the empire to Leo; andthe reproaches of these hostile sectaries are turned into an absurd conspiracy forrestoring the purity of the Christian worship. (Sec Spanheim, Hist. inag. c. P.)