OCR Output 182 THE TEMPLE. [B. V. gate was cut out of its wall over against the first gate. Therewas also on the other sides one southern and one northerngate, through which was a passage into the court of the women;for as to the other gates the women were not allowed to passthrough them: nor when they went through their own gatecould they go beyond their own wall. This place was allottedto the women of our own country, and of other countries, pro足vided they were of the same nation, and that equally: thewestern part of this court had no gate at all, but the wall wasbuilt entire on that side. But then the cloisters which werebetwixt the gates extended from the wall inward before thechambers, for they were supported by very fine and largepillars. These cloisters were single, and, excepting their mag足nitude, were no way inferior to those of the lower court. 3. Now nine of these gates were on every side covered overwith gold and silver, as were the jambs of their doors andtheir lintels: but there was one gate that was without [theinward court of] the holy house, which was of Corinthianbrass, and greatly excelled those that were only covered overwith silver and gold. Each gate had two doors, whose heightwas severally thirty cubits, and their breadth fifteen. How足ever, they had large spaces within of thirty cubits, and hadon each side rooms, and those, both in breadth and in length,built like towers, and their height was above forty cubits.Two pillars did also support these rooms, and were in circum足ference twelve cubits. Now the magnitudes of the other gateswere equal one to another ; but that over the Corinthian gate,which opened on the east over against the gate of the holyhouse itself, was much larger, for its h.-lght was fifty cubits,and its doors were forty cubits, and it was adorned after amost costly manner, as having much richer and thicker platesof silver and gold upon them than the other. These ninegates had that silver and gold poured upon them by Alexander,the father of Tiberius. Now there were fifteen steps which ledfrom the wall of the court of the women to this greater sate ;whereas those that led thither from the other gates were fivesteps shorter. 4. As to the holy house itself, which was placed in the