OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. 297 whom he employed as spies, (because they were thebetter fitted for it, especially as men of that nationserved in both camps,) brought intelligence that theRomans were prepared for battle; ,on which the Car足thaginian began to look about for a place where hemight form au ambuscade. 54. In the middle, between the camps, ran a rivulet,whose banks were uncommonly steep; the adjacentground was covered with such herbs as grew in marshes,with bushes and brambles, which usually overspreaduncultivated ground. On examining the place him足self, and finding it to be capable of concealing evenhorsemen, he said to Mago his brother, ' This is thespot which you must occupy. Choose out from thewhole number of horse and foot a hundred men ofeach, and come with them to me at the first watch. Itis now time to take refreshment.' Thus the attendingofficers were dismissed. In some little time Magocame with his chosen band, and Hannibal said, ' I seeyou are very able men; but that you may be strong,not only in spirit but in number, let each of you choosenine like yourselves out of the troops and companies :Mago will show you the place where you are to lie inwait. You will have to deal with an enemy who isblind with respect to these stratagems of war.' Hav足ing thus sent off this detachment of one thousand horseand one thousand foot under Mago, Hannibal orderedthe Numidian cavalry to cross the river Trebia at thefirst light; to ride up to the enemy's gates, and, dig-charging their weapons against their men on guard, todraw them out to battle ; and then, as soon as the fightshould be commenced, to retreat leisurely, and by thatmeans draw them on to the other side of the river.These were his orders to the Numidians. To the otherofficers, both of cavalry and infantry, he gave direc-' tions to cause their men to take refreshment; and then,under arms, and with their horses accoutred, to waitthe signal. On the alarm first given by the Numi足dians, Sempronius, eager for action, led out, first, all