OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THt JEWS. 203 behind them: which when Jonathan perceived, he was underno consternation, but ordering his army to stand in a square bat足tle array, he gave them a charge to fall on the enemy on bothsides, and set them to face those that attacked them both beforeand behind: And while the fight lasted till the evening, he gavepart of his forces to his brother Simon, and ordered him toattack the enemies, but for himself, he charged those that werewith them to cover themselves with their armour, and receivethe darts of the horsemen, who did as they were commanded;so that the enemies' horsemen, while they threw their darts tillthey had no more left, did them no harm, for the darts that werethrown did not enter into their bodies, being thrown upon theshields, that were united and conjoined together, the closenessof which easily overcame the forces of the darts, and they flewabout without any effect. But when the enemy grew remiss inthrowing their darts from morning till late at night, Simonperceived their weariness, and fell upon the body of men beforehim; and because his soldiers showed great alacrity, he put theenemy to flight, and when the horsemen saw that the footmenran away, neither did they stay themselves, but they being veryweary, by the duration of the fight till the evening, and theirhope from the footmen being quite gone, they basely ran away,and in great confusion also, till they were separated one fromanother, and scattered over all the plain. Upon which Jonathanpursued them as far as Ashdod, and slew a great many of them,and compelled the rest, in despair of escaping, to fly to the tem足ple of Dagon, which was at Ashdod; but Jonathan took the cityon the first onset, and burnt it, and the villages about it, nordid he abstain from the temple of Dagon itself, and burnt it al足so, and destroyed those that had fled to it. Now the entire mul足titude of the enemies that fell in the battle, and were> consumedin the temple, were eight thousand. When Jonathan thereforehad overcome so great an army, he removed from Ashdod, andcame to Askelon: and when he had pitched his camp withoutthe city, the people of Askelon came out and met him, bringinghim hospitable presents, and honouring him; so he accepted oftheir kind intentions, and returning thence to Jerusalem with agreat deal of prey, which he brought thence when he conqueredhis enemies: but when Alexander heard that Apollonius thegeneral of his army, was beaten, he pretended to be glad of it,because he had fought with Jonathan his friend and ally againsthis directions. Accordingly, he sent to Jonathan, and gavetestimony to his worth; and gave him honorary * rewards, as a * Dr. Hudson here observes, that the Phenicians and Romans used to rewardsuch as had deserved well of them, by presenting to them a golden button. Seechap. v. sect. 4. VOL. II. C C 21