OCR Output 284 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. Lesser Ar­menia. Alliance with Tigranes. dom combined with that of Pontus and, like the latter,mainly based on a number of Greek commercial towns. Itwas called the kingdom of the Bosporus; it embraced themodern Crimea with the opposite Asiatic promontory, andannually furnished to the royal chests ana magazines 200talents (£48,800) and 270,000 bushels of grain. The tribesof the steppe themselves from the north slope of the Cauca­sus to the mouth of the Danube entered, at least in greatpart, into relations of dependence on, or treaty with, thePontic king and, if they furnished him with no other aid,afforded at any rate an inexhaustible field for recruiting hisarmies. While thus the most important successes were gainedtowards the north, the king at the same time extended hisdominions towards the east and the west. The LesserArmenia was annexed by him and converted from a de­pendent principality into an integral part of the Pontickingdom; but still more important was the close connectionwhich he formed with the king of the Greater Armenia.He not only gave his daughter Cleopatra in marriage toTigranes, but it was mainly through his support thatTigranes shook off the yoke of the Arsacida e and took theirplace in Asia. An agreement seems to have been madebetween the two to the effect, that Tigranes should take inhand to occupy Syria and the interior of Asia, and Mithra-dates Asia Minor and the coasts of the Black Sea, underpromise of mutual support; and it was beyond doubt themore active and abler Mithradates who brought about thisagreement with a view to cover his rear and to secure apowerful ally. Lastly, in Asia Minor the king turned his eyes towardsPaphlagonia and Cappadocia.* The former was claimed on 114. 92. 92-63. 103.99. * The chronology of the following events can only be determined approxi­mately. Mithradates Eupator seems to have practically entered on the go­vernment somewhere about 640; Sulla's intervention took place in 662 (Liv.Ep. 70) with which accords the calculation assigning to the Mithradatic warsa period of thirty years (662-691) (Plin. H. N. vii. 26, 97). In the intervalfell the quarrels as to thePaphlagonianand Cappadocian succession, with whichthe bribery attempted by Mithradates in Rome (Diod. 631) apparently in thefirst tribunate of Saturninus in 651 (P. 207) was probably connected. Marias,who left Rome in 655 and did not remain long in the East, found Mithradatesalready in Cappadocia and negotiated with him regarding his aggressions (Cicad Brut. i. 5; Pint. Mar. 31); Ariarathes VI. had consequently been bythat time put to death. ^