OCR Output 364 Book II. WARS OF THE JEWS. multitude of his own servants, all which he armed and used asthe instruments of hiscovetousness. Nowwhenthat feast, whichwas observed after seven weeks, and which the Jews call Pente­cost (i. e. the 50th day) was at hand, its name being takeufromthe number of the days [after the passover], the people got to­gether, but not on account of the accustomed divine worship,but of the indignation they had [at the present state of affairs].Wherefore an immense multitude ran together, out of Galilee,and Idumea, and Jericho, and Perea, that was beyond Jordan ;but the people that naturally belonged to Judea itself were abovethe rest, both in number, and in the alacrity of the men. Sothey distributed themselves into three parts, and pitched theircamps in three places; one at the north side of the temple, ano­ther at the south side, by the Hippodrome and the third partwere at the palace on the west. So they lay round about theRomans on every side, and besieged them. 2. Now Sabinus was affrighted, both at the multitude, and attheir courage, and sent messengers to Varus continually, andbesought him to come to his succour quickly, for that, if hedelayed, his legion would be cut to pieces. As for Sabinushimself, he got up to the highest tower of the fortress, whichwas ealled Phasaelus; it is of the same name with Herod'sbrother, who was destroyed by the Parthians; and then hemade signs to the soldiers of that legion to attack the enemy;for his astonishment was so great, that he durst not go down tohis own men. Hereupon the soldiers were prevailed upon, andleaped out into the temple, and fought a terrible battle with the.Jews; in which, while there were none over their heads todistress thero, they were too hard for them, by their skill, andthe others' want of skill, in war; but when once many of theJews had gotten up to the tqp of the cloisters, and threw theirdarts downwards, upon the heads qf the Romans, there were agreat many of them destroyed. Nor was it easy to avenge them-*.Selves upon those that threw their weapons from on high, norWas it more easy for them to suitain those who came to fightthem hand to hand. 9. Since therefore the Romans were sorely afflicted by boththese circumstances, they set fire to the cloisters, which wereworks to be admired, both;on account of their magnitude andcostliness. Whereupon those that were above them were pre­sently encompassed with the flame, and many of them perishedtherein; as many of them also were destroyed by the enemy,who came suddenly upon them; some of them also threw them­selves down from the walls backward, and some there wereWho, from the desperate condition they were in, prevented the