OCR Output 218 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. But the Christians entertained a natural and piousXVIIL expectation, that, in this memorable contest, the ho­nour of religion would be vindicated by some signalmiracle. An earthquake, a whirlwind, and a fieryeruption, which overturned and scattered the newfoundations of the temple, are attested, with somevariations, by contemporaryand respectable evidence*.This public event is described by Ambrose t, bishopof Milan, in an epistle to the emperor Theodosius,which must provoke the severe animadversion of theJews; by the eloquent Chrysostom J, who mightappeal to the memory of the elder part of his con­gregation at Antioch; and by Gregory Nazienzen §,perhaps by who published his account of the miracle before thenatand expiration of the same year. The last of theseeTent" writers has boldly declared, that this preternaturalevent was not disputed by the infidels; and his asser­tion, strange as it may seem, is confirmed by theunexceptionable testimony of Ammianus Marcelli-nus||. The philosophic soldier, who loved the vir­tues, without adopting the prejudices of his master,has recorded, in his judicious and candid history ofhis own times, the extraordinary obstacles which in­terrupted the restoration of the temple of Jerusalem."Whilst Alypius, assisted by the governor of the have understood, from former examples, that the execution of such a work wouldhave demanded many years. * The subsequent witnesses, Socrates, Sozomen, Theodoret, Fhilostorgius,&c add contradictions, rather than authority. Compare the objections of Bas-nage (Hist. des Juifs, torn. vrh.p. 157—168.) with Warburton's answers (Julian,p. 174—258.). f Ambros. torn. ii. epist. xl. p. 946. edit. Benedictin. J Chrysostom, torn. i. p. 580, advers. Judajos et Gentes, torn. ii. p. 574. deSto. Babyla, edit. Montfaucon.§ Greg. Nazianzen, Orat. iv. p. 110—113. To Se sv irip&iriv ir«ir; Octv/xx, || Ammian. xxiii. 1. Cum itaque rei fortiter instaret Alypius, juvaretqueprovincia; rector, metuendi globi flammarum prope fundamenta crebris a^sultibuserumpentes fecere locum exustis aliquoties operantibus inaccessum: hocque modoelemento destinatius repellente, cessavit inceptum. Warburton labours (p. 60—90.) to extort a confession of the miracle from the mouths of Julian and Liba,nius, and to employ the evidence of a rabbi, who lived in the fifteenth century.Such witnesses can only be received by a very favourable judge.