OCR Output 242 THE ROMANS ASSAULT [B. VI. thrown down is easily to be ascended, and for the new-builtwall it is easily destroyed. Do you, therefore, many of you,pull up your courage, and set about this work, and do youmutually encourage and assist one another; and this yourbravery will soon break the hearts of your enemies ; and, per­haps, such a glorious undertaking as yours is may be accom­plished without bloodshed. For although it be justly to bosupposed that the Jews will try to hinder you, at your firstbeginning, to go up to them, yet when you have once con­cealed yourselves from them, and driven them away by force,they will not be able to sustain your efforts against them anylonger, though but a few of you prevent them, and get overthe wall. As for that person who first mounts the wall, Ishould blush for shame if I did not make him to be enviedof others, by those rewards I would bestow upon him. If sucha one escape with his life, he shall have the command of othersthat are now but his equals, although it be true, also, that thegreatest rewards' will accrue to such as die in the attempt."6. Upon this speech of Titus, the rest of the multitude wereaffrighted at so great a danger. But there was one whosename was Sabinus, a soldier that served among the cohorts,and a Syrian by birth, who appeared to be of very great for­titude, both in the actions he had done and the courage of hissoul he had showed; although any body would have thought,before he came to his work, that he was of such a weak con­stitution of body, that he was not fit to bo a soldier; for hiscolor was black, his flesh was lean and thin, and lay close to­gether; but there was a certain heroic soul that dwelt iu thissmall body, which body was, indeed, much too narrow for thatpeculiar courage which was in him. Accordingly, he was thefirst that rose up, when he thus spake : — "I readily surren­der up myself to thee, O Caesar! I first ascend the wall, andI heartily wish that my fortune may follow my courage andmy resolution. And if some ill fortune grudge mo the successof my undertaking, take notice that my ill success will not beunexpected, but that I choose death voluntarily for thy sake.""When he had said this, and spread out his shield over his 'See note on preceding page.