OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S3 violent manner, and thought all to be lawful and right whichtended to please them, and being unskilful in foreseeing whatdangers they incurred ; and when they had suspicion of such athing, yet did the present pleasure they took in the punilhmentof those they deemed their enemies, overweigh all such consi­derations ; and although Archelaus sent many to speak to them,yet they treated them not as meflengers sent by him, but aspersons that came of their own accord to mitigate their anger,and would not let one of them speak. The sedition, also, wasmade by such as were in a great passion ; and it was evidentthat they were proceeding farther in seditious practices, by themultitude's running so fast upon them. 3. Now, upon the approach of that feast of unleavened bread,which the law of their fathers had appointed for the Jews at thistime, which feast is called the Passover *, and is a memorial of'their deliverance out of Egypt, (when they offer sacrifices withgreat alacrity ; and when they are required to slay more sacrifi­ces in number than at any other festival; and when an innu­merable multitude came thither out of the country, nay, frombeyond its limits also, in order to worfliip God) ; the seditiouslamented Judas and Matthias, those teachers of the laws, andkept together in the temple, and had plenty of food, becausethese seditious persons were not ashamed to beg it. And asArchelaus was afraid lest some terrible thing should spring upby means of these men's madness, he sent a regiment of armedmen, and with them a captain of a thousand, to suppress the vio­lent efforts of the seditious, before the whole multitude shouldbe infected with the like madness ; and gave them this charge,that if they found any much more openly seditious than others,and more busy in tumultuous practices, they should bring themto him. But those that were seditious on account of thoseteachers of the law, irritated the people by the noise and cla­mours they used to encourage the people in their designs^ sothey made an assault upon the soldiers, and came up 'to them,and stoned the greatest part of them, although some of them ranaway wounded, and their captain among them'; :and when theyhad thus done, they returned to the sacrifices which were alreadyin their hands. Now Archelaus thought there was no way topreserve the entire government, but by cutting off those whomade this attempt upon it; so he sent out the whole army upon•them, and sent the horsemen to prevent those that had theirtents without the temple, from assisting those that were within VOL. III.*..- : • E' /, the . '), ' * i • . • , * This pissover, when the sedition here mentioned was moved against Ar.<helaus, was not one, but thirteen months after the eclipse of the moon alreadymentioned. '