OCR Output 250 LI VY. the affair was really a tumult, rather than a war. TheCarthaginians, another kind of foe, were crossing theIberus ; trained to arms during twenty-three years, inthe most laborious service, among the nations of Spain ;accustomed to conquer on every occasion ; habituatedto the command of a most able general; flushed withtheir late conquest of a very opulent city, and bringingwith them many Spanish states; while the Gauls, everglad of an opportunity of fighting, would doubtless beengaged in the expedition. War must then be wagedagainst all the world, in the heart of Italy, and underthe walls of Rome. 17. The provinces had been already named for theconsuls, but now they were ordered to cast lots. Spainfell to Cornelius; Africa, with Sicily, to Sempronius.For the service of the year six legions were decreed,with such a number of the troops of the allies as theconsuls should deem requisite, and a fleet as great ascould be fitted out. Of Romans were enlisted twenty-four thousand foot, and one thousand eight hundredhorse; of the allies, forty thousand foot, and four thou­sand four hundred horse. The fleet consisted of two hun­dred and twenty ships of five banks of oars, and twentylight galleys. The question was then proposed to thepeople, whether ' they chose and ordered that warshould be declared against the people of Carthage VThis being determined on, a general supplication wasperformed in the city, and prayers offered to the gods,that the war which the Roman people had orderedmight have a prosperous and a happy issue. The forceswere divided between the consuls in this manner: toSempronius were assigned two legions, containing eachfour thousand foot and three hundred horse, and of theallies sixteen thousand foot and one thousand eighthundred horse, with one hundred and sixty ships ofwar, and twelve light galleys. With these land andsea forces Tiberius Sempronius was sent to Sicily, withintention that he should cross, over to Africa, in casethe other consul should be able to prevent the Cartha­ginians from entering Italy. The army assigned to