OCR Output \% THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR. remes, but consisted chiefly of vessels of fifty oars and bargesof the more ancient model. And it was but a little while be­fore the Median war and the death of Darius who succeededCambyses in the kingdom of Persia, that the tyrants of Sicilyand the Corcyreans became masters of any considerable num­ber of triremes. For these last were the only instances of anaval strength in Greece, before the invasion of it by Xerxes,that deserve particular mention. The vessels of the iEgine-tae, of the Athenians, and some others, were few in number,and most of them but of fifty oars. It was not till later times,when the Athenians had war with the iEginetae and also ex­pected the approach of Xerxes, that at the persuasion of The-mistocles they built those ships with which they fought suc­cessfully against the Barbarians; and even these were notyet compleatly decked over. Such therefore were the navies of Greece, both of an earlierand later date. And the states to which they belonged gain­ed by them considerable strength, through an increase oftheir revenue and the enlargement of their dominions. Em­barkations grown more frequent, especially to those who werepent up in a narrow soil, occasioned the reduction of the isles:but for a land war, and in consequence of that, an accessionof power, none such was at that time known. All conflicts ofthat sort, which ever happened, were-disputes of boundariesbetween contiguous states. The Grecians had not yet launch­ed forth into distant expeditions, nor aimed ambitiously atforeign conquests. There were no dependent cities, whichfurnished quotas at the will of others who gave them law; nordid those who were upon equality concur in any joint under­taking ; each petty state took up arms occasionally in its owndefence against the incroachments of its neighbours. At most,the greatest division of Greece that ever happened was in theold rupture between the Clulcideans and Erctrians, whenleagues were formed in favour of both. By these means was the growth of many states prevented,and that of the Ionians by a different cause—the great and