OCR Output 310 Book I. WARS OF THE JEWS. rer for them, when they were to march as far as Pelusium,through a dry country, which he did also in like manner at theirreturn thence; nor were there any necessaries wanting to thatarmy. It was therefore the opinion, both of Caesar and of hissoldiers, that Herod's kingdom was too small for those generouspresentshe made them; for which reason, when Caesar was comeinto Egypt, and Cleopatra and Antony were dead, he did notonly bestow other marks of honour upon him, but made an ad­dition to his kingdom, by giving him not only the country whichhad been taken from him by Cleopatra, but besides that, Gada-ra, and Hippos, and Samaria; and moreover, of the maritimecities, * Gaza and Anthedon, and Joppn, and Strato's Tower.He also made him a present of four hundred Galls [Galatians]as a guard for his body, which they had been to Cleopatra be­fore. Nor did any thing so strongly induce Caesar to make thesepresents as the generosity of him that received them. 4. Moreover, after the first games at Actium, he added to hiskingdom both the region called Trachonitis, and what lay in itsneighbourhood, Batanea, and the country of Auranitis; and thaton the following occasion: Zenodoru3, who had hired the houseof Lysanias,had all along sent robbersout of Trachonitis amongthe Damascens; who thereupon had recourse to Varro, thepresident of Syria, and desired of him thathe would representthecalamity they were in to Caesar: when Caesar was acquaintedwith it, he sent back orders that this nest of robbers should bedestroyed. Varro therefore made an expedition against them,and cleared the land of those men, and took it away from Zeno-dorus. Caesar did also afterward bestow it on Herod, that itmight not again become a receptacle for those robbers that hadcome against Damascus. He also made him a procurator of allSyria, and this on the tenth year afterward, when he came a.gain into that province; and this was so established, that theother procurators could not do any thing in the administrationwithout his advice: but when Zenodorus was dead, Caesar be­stowed on him all that land which lay between Trachonitis andGalilee. Yet what was still of more consequence to Herod, hewas beloved by Caesar next after Agrippa, and by Agrippa nextafter Caesar; whence he arrived at a very great degree of feli­city. Yet did the greatness of his soul exceed it, and the main part * Since Josephus, both here, and in his Antiq. B. XV. ch. vii. sect. 3. Vol. II.reckons G,iza, which had been a free city, among the cities given Herod by Au­gustus, and yet implies that Herod had made Costobarus a governor of it before.Antiq. B. XV. ch. viil sect. 9. Harduin has some pretence for saying that Jose­ph us here contradicted himself. But perhaps Herod thought he had sufficient au­thority to put a governor into Gaza, after he was made tetrarch or king, in times0! war, before the city was entirely delivered into his hands by Augustus,