OCR Output 2Z8 THE DECLINE AND FALL throne of Constantinople, displayed the trophies of chivalry, and almost realized thewonders of romance. VII. The Latins; the subjects of the pope, the nationsof the west, who enlisted under the banner of the cross for the recovery and reliefof the holy sepulchre. The Greek emperors were terrified and preserved by themyriads of pilgrims who marched to Jerusalem with Godfrey of Bouillon and thepeers of Christendom. 1'he second and third crusades trod on the footsteps ofthe first: Asia and Europe were mingled in a sacred war of two hundred years;and the Christian powers were bravely resisted, and finally expelled, by Saladinand the mamalukes of Egjpt. In these memorable crusades, a fleet and army ofFrench and Venetians were diverted from Syria to the Thracian Bosphorus; theyassaulted the capital, they subverted the Greek monarchy; and a dynasty of La­tin princes was seated near threescore years on the throne of Constantine. VIII.The Greeks themselves, during this period of captivity and exile, must be con­sidered as a foreign nation; the enemies and again the sovereigns, of Constantino­ple. Misfortune had rekindled a spark of national virtue; and the imperial seriesmay be continued with some dignity from their restoration to the Turkish conquest.IX. The Moguls and Tartars. By the arms of Zingis and his descendants,the globe was shaken from China to Poland and Greece; the sultans were over­thrown; the caliphs fell, and the Caesars trembled on their throne. The victoriesof Timour suspended above fifty years the final ruin of the Byzantine empire. X.I have already noticed the first appearance of the Turks, and the names of thefathers, of Seljuk and Othman, discriminate the two successive dynasties of thenations, which emerged in the eleventh century from the Scythian wilderness.The former established a potent and splendid kingdom from the banks of theOxus to Antioch and Nice; and the first crusade was provoked by the violation ofJerusalem and the danger of Constantinople. From an humble origin, the Otto­mans arose, the scourge and terror of Christendom. Constantinople was besiegedand taken by Mahomet II. and his triumph annihilates the remnant, the image,the title of the Roman empire in the east. The schism of the Greeks will be con­nected with their last calamities, and the restoration of learning in the westernworld. I shall return from the captivity of the new, to the ruins of Ancient Rome;and the venerable name, the interesting theme, will shed a ray of glory on theconclusion of my labours. The emperor Heraclius had punished a tyrant and ascended his throne; and thememory of his reign is perpetuated by the transient conquest, and irreparable loss,of the eastern provinces. After the death of Eudocia, his first wife, he disobeyedthe patriarch, and violated the laws, by his second marriage with his niece Marti­na; and the superstition of the Greeks beheld the judgment of heaven in the dis­eases of the father and the deformity of his offspring. But the opinion of an il­legitimate birth is sufficient to distract the choice, and loosen the obedience, ofthe people: the ambition of Martina was quickened by maternal love, and perhapsby the envy of a step-mother; and the aged husband was too feeble to withstandthe arts of conjugal allurements. Constantine, his eldest son, enjoyed in a matureage the title of Augustus; but the weakness of his constitution required a colleagueand a guardian, and he yielded with secret reluctance to the partition of the em­pire. The senate was summoned to the palace to ratitify or attest the associationof Heracleonas, the son of Martina: the imposition of the diadem was consecratedby the prayer and blessing of the patriarch; the senators and patricians adoredthe majesty of the great emperor and the partners of his reign; and, as soon asthe doors were thrown open, they were hailed by the tumultuary but importantvoice of the soldiers. After an interval of five months, the pompous ceremonies,which formed the essence of the Byzantine state, were celebrated in the cathedraland the hippodrome: the concord of the royal brothers was affectedly displayedby the younger leaning on the arm of the elder; and the name of Martina wasmingled in the reluctant or venal acclamations of the people. Heraclius survivedthis association about two years; his last testimony declared his two sons the equalheirs of the eastern empire, and commanded them to honour his widow Martinaas their mother and their sovereign. When Martina first appeared'on the throne with the name and attributes ofroyalty, she was checked by a firm, though respectful opposition; and the dyingembers of freedom were kindled by the breath of superstitious prejudice:—" Wereverence (exclaimed the voice of a citizen,) we reverence the mother of our