OCR Output 1058 STRACUSAE. SYRACISAE. its power The circumstances of the great siege ofSyracuse by the Athenians must here he related insome detail, on account of their important bearingon all questions connected with the topography ofthe city, and the interest they confer on its loca­lities. At the same time it will obviously be impos­sible to do more than give a very brief sketch of thatmemorable contest, for the details of which thereader must refer to the narrative of Thucydides,with the copious illustrations of Arnold, Grote, andCol. Leake. It was not till the Spring of B. c. 414 that thesiege of Syracuse was regularly commenced. Butin the autumn of 415, the Athenians had alreadymade a demonstration against the city, and sailinginto the Great Harbour, effected a landing withoutopposition near the Oljmpieom, where they esta­blished their camp on the shore, and erected a tem­porary fori at a place called Deacon (Thuc. vi. 66;Diod. xii. 6), apparently on the inner bight of theharbour, between the mouth of the Anapus and thebay now called the Bay of Mashlalena. But thoughsuccessful in the battle that ensued, Nicias did notattempt to follow up his advantage, and withdrew towinter at Catana. The next spring the Athenianslanded to the X. of Syracuse, at a place called Leon,about 6 or 7 stadia from the height! of Epipolae,while they established their naval station at the ad­joining peninsula of Thapsus (Magnisi). The landtroops advanced at once to occupy Kpipolae, the mi­litary importance of which was felt by both parties,and succeeded in establishing themselves there,before the Syracusans could dislodge them. Theythen proceeded to build a fort at a place called Lab-daluni, which is described by Thucydides as situated"on the top of the cliffs of Kpipolae, looking towardsMegara" (Thuc. vi. 97). and having occupied thiswith a garrison, bo as to secure their communicationswith their fleet, they advanced to a place calledSyce (7; 2i/K7j), where they establi>hed themselves,and began to construct with great rapidity a line ofcircumvallation across the plateau of Epi]*>lae.* Theconstruction of such a line was the customary modeof proceeding in Greek sieges, and it was with thespecial object of guarding against it that the Syra-cusans had in the preceding winter extended theirfortificAtioni by running a new line of wall so as tociu'!o>e the temple uf Apollo Temcnites (Thuc. vi,75). which probably extended from thence down tothe Great Harbour. Nevertheless the Athenianline of circumvallation was carried on so rapidly asto excite in them the greatest alarm. Its northernextremity was made to rest on the sea at a pointcalled Trogilus (probably near the Scala Green),and it was from thence carried across the table-land * The account here given of the Athenian ope­rations assumes that "the circle'' repeatedly spokenof by Thucydides (vi.9S,99,&c), is the circuit of thelines of circumvallation This is the constructionadopted by Gbller, and all earlier editors of Thu­cydides, as well as by Col. Leake; and appears tothe writer of this article by far the most naturaland intelligible interpretation. Mr. Grote, on thecontrary, as well as Dr. Arnold in his later editionadopts the suggestion of II. Kirmin Didot that "thecircle" (d kvkKos) was a particular intrenchmentor fortified camp of a circular form. It is difficultto understand the military object of such a work, aswell as to reconcile it with the subsequent details ofthe urge operations. of the Kpipolae, to the point nearest to the «""*Harbour. Alarmed at the rapid pfogrea of uawall, the Syracusans endeaToarcd to intern;* ;t ifconstructing a counter or cross wall (&wt«or 4yK<lp<Tiov reixor), directed apparently fan Atwall recently erected around the temple d k\'Tememtes towards the southern cliff of Efii(Thuc. vi. 99.) This wall was, however,by the Athenians by a sudden attack ltdwhereupon the Syracusans attempted aterwork, carried through the marches ttdground, so as to prevent the Athenians freesnecting their works on Kpipolae with theHarbour. But this work was, like the pnone, taken and destroyed; and the Atbecaa*.fleet had meanwhile entered the Great Hirbocrjestablished itself there, were able to wastrststrong double line of wall, extending framUnof Epipolae quite down to the harbour. {Ib. \<103.) On the table-land above, on the eofltheir works were still incomplete, and eapeewDypart of the line of circumvaUatinn near Tnriia«*Jstill in an unfinished state when Gylippos ha*Sicily, so that that commander was able U fixpassage through the lines at this point, aaian entry into Syracuse. (Id. tu. 2.) It bnable that the hill of Euryaloi, though inkey of the position on the Epipolae. sera* tobeen neglected by Kicias, and was stillby any fortifications. Gylippus immediately directed his e5*ti Ivent the completion of the Athenian Uoa eentable-land, and obtained in the first inrfawa 1portant advantage by surprising the Arbaiiat Labdalum. He next began to erect azucbflwall, running out from the walls of the orethe plateau, so as to cross and intersect tienian lines; and notwithstanding repeatedthe part of the Athenians, succeeded ia twthis on so far as completely to cut cS thar 1circumvallation, and render it imposr.bk i*complete it, (Id. vii. 4—6.) Both partis ahave looked on the completion of this swe Jdecisive point of the siege; Kicias findwf \unable to capture the outwork of the Syr*almost despaired of success, and wrote to Atfcstrong reinforcements. Meanwhile he «■(strengthen his position on the Great Harborcupying and fortifying the headland ofnam, which completely commanded its(/&. 4.)' The Syracusans* however, stiHthe Olympieum (or lVluhne, aa it wa 1called) with a strong body of troops, atunder the guidance of Gylippos. aUackol thenians both by sea and land, though fauaiformer attempt, they took the forts whtdi 1recently erected on the Plenunyrium. (fa.24.) This was a most importantrendered it henceforth very difficult fcr tieto supply their fleet and camp with |—w%jit is evident that it was so regarded by bath(/&. 25, 31): the Syracosanagained a decisive success in mGreat Harbour, and were prep&riur toadvantage further, when the arrival of Dand Eurymedon from Athens with a parestored for a time the superiority of dmDemosthenes immediately directed all hithe capture of the Syracuaan coontarapttlae; but meanwhile Gylippus bad wot 1strengthen his position there, by