OCR Output 1014 SIRMIO. SISCIA. tho Servian kingdom. Stephen Dushan in the 14thcentury seized on this large and flourishing city, andassumed the imperial crown here, where lie esta­blished a court on the Roman or Byzantine model,with the title of Eiri]«eror of Romania, Sclavonia, andAlbania. (Niceph. (ireg. p. 467.) After his deatha partition of his dominions took place but the(m'eks have never since been able to recover theirformer preponderance in the provinces of the Stry-monic valley. Suhau Murad took this town fromthe Servians, and when Sigismund, king of Hungary,was about to invade the Ottoman dominions, Bayezid(Bajazet Ilderim) summoned the Christian princeswho were his vassals to his camp at Serrhae, pre­vious to his victory at Nicopolis, .v. t>. 1396. (J.von Hammer, Gesch. des Oman, AescAev, vol. i.lip. 193, 246, 600.) Besides the Macedonian inscriptions of the Romanempire found by Leake (Inter. 126) and Oousinery,the only other vestige of the ancient town is a pieceof Hellenic wall faced with large quadrangularblocks, but composed within of small stones andmortar forming a mass of extreme solidity. Servianremains are more common. (Leake, Northern Greece,vol. iii. pp. 200—210.) [E. B. J.] SI'RMIO (SermUme), a narrow neck or tongue ofland, projecting out into the Lake Benacus (Logotli Gardti), from its southern shore. Though aconspicuous anil picturesque object in all views of thelake from its southern shores, it is unnoticed by anyof the geographers, and its name would probablyhave been unknown to us, but for the circumstancethat Catullus, who was a native of the neighbouringVerona, bad a villa on its shores, and has sung thepraises of Sirmio in one of the most charming odesin the Latin language (GatnIL xxxi.). The name ofSinnio is, however, found in the Itineraries, whichplace a u Sermione roansio" on the road from Biixiato Verona, and just midway between the two cities,22 M. P. from each (Itin Ant. p. 127). This must,however, have been situated at the entrance of thejKMiinsula, probably where a road turned off to it, asit is clear that the highroad could never have turnedaside to the promontory itself. Kxiensive substructions and other remains of anancient villa are stiil visible at the extremity of tirepromontory, where it juts out into the lake: but theseundoubtedly belong to an al>ode on a much moremagnificent scale than the villa of Catullus, andprobably belong to some villa of the imperial times,which had replaced the humbler dwelling of thepoet. [B.H.B.] SI'RMIUM (Sfjyuor), an important city in thesouth-eastern part of Lower Pannonia, was anancient Celtic place of the Taurisci, on the left hankof the Savus, a little below the point where thisriver is joined by the Baemitius (Plin. iii. 28.)Zasiinus (ii. 18) is mistaken when lie asserts thatSiriiiium was surrounded on two sides by a tri­butary of the I-ster. The town was situated in amost favourable position, where several roads met(It. Ant. pp. 124, 131; It. I/kros. p. 563), andduring the wars against the Dacians and otherDanubian tribes, it became the chief depot of allmilitary stores, and gradual.y rose to the rank ofthe chief city in Pannonia. (Herodian, fit 2.)Whether it was ever made a Roman colony is notquite certain, though an inscription is said to existcontaining the words Dec. Colon. Sirmicns. It con­tained a large manufactory of arms, a spaciousforum, an imperial palace, and other public build- ings, and was tlte residence of the aininl of 1first Flavian fleet on the Danube. (Axvii. 13, xix. 11; XatiL Imp.) Tht <bus was born at Sirmium. (Vopac /Vte.S.1comp. Strab. ii. p. 134; PtnL ii. 16. § 8. I§ 6; Steph. B. s e.; Eotrop. ix. 17;p. 715, ed. Gronov.; Geoff- Bar. iv, 19.) lb «is mentioned for the last time by Prooopai (B. Ciii. 33, 34), as being in the hands of the Awvlwhen and how it perished are qwsftmm wk^a fctory does not answer. Extensive nucs it Istill found about the modem towv(See Orelli, InscripL n. 3617; Marsili,p. 246. foil.) (LI SIRNIDES, a group of small islaad* off tatfinontory Sammonium in Crete. (Pha. r*.20.) SIROC (2ipa'«), a town of Parthyene, iIsidorus. (Sixth* Parih. c. 12, ed. Mulfcr.)not clear whether there is any <town; but Rennell tbinks itpresent SeraJchs. (Geoff. Herod, p. 297.)[daces a district which be calls Straecnt iAsUbeni, a people who occupied part of j(vi. 9. § 5). It is not impossible that \Siracene may be thus connected. SISAPON Strab. iii. p. \*f\'t siderable town in Hispania Baetka. (Oc f19; Plin. iii. 1. s. 3.) It lay N. oftween the Baetis and the Ansa, and «for its silver mines and veins of cinaaaarI c.i Vitruv. vii. 9; Plin. xxxni. 7. a. 40; 1v. 109.) The town of A Imnden in tht Irena, with which Sisapon is identified, ia rich mine of quicksilver. ** The mrently inexhaustible, becoming richer inas the shafts deepen. The vein of ■25 feet thick, traverses rocks of quart* iand runs towards A Irmxdeneja*, Vrnyia <occurs also in pyrites and hoinatou.*20,000 and 25,000 quintals of nvrrcrprocured annually." (Ford, H<mAmkp. 70 ; comp. Laborde, /tin. ii. p ISS; ITravels, ii. pp. 72, 77.) The name erf thaivariously written It appears on c(Sestini, p. 87), whilst others hav* 1(Florez, Med. iii. p. 119; Minnaet^t-f 1Supp. i. p. 114.) The form u Sismlaa* " (1(p. 444) is probably corrupt. It isame town called Sttrarunf by PiatM* (_59), who, however, places it in the territoFrfOretani, in Uispania Tamoonenats, iit borders, [T.! SISAR. [I'SAB.] SISABA (2«rd>o, Ptol. iv. 3. § 17), a 1Africa Propria, in the neighbourhood of 1rhytus. Now litnuert or Bizerta. [ T. \ SISARACA (ZwapaKOy Ptol. ii. *. § Jtown of the Murbogi or Tnnnodrp m IracoiitMi^i^. For coins, see S**!>iim, j*. ly7. SISAURANUM (to TUamn^nw.ii. 19, de Aedif. ii. 4). a fcrtrm ox"above Para, noticed by Procojina. Itwhere mentioned. Sl'SClA. SEGESTA, or SEGE STICA |2«7«Vto, 2e7f<TTuc^), a great town iUpper Pannonia, on the southern bunk irf Ion an island formed by that hrer and tathe Colapis and Odra, a canal da£ by 1pleting the island. (Dion Cass. xlix. 37.)situated on the groat road from Aexaooa to i