OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS 177 ers, and to endeavour to save his own countrymen out of theirhands. To this exhortation Judas hearkened and returned intothe wilderness; and in the first place fell upon the inhabitants otBosor, and took the city, and beat the inhabitants, and destroyedall the males, and all that were able to fight, and burnt the city.Nor did he stop -even when night came on, but he journeyed init to the garrison where the Jews happened to be then shut up,and where Timotheus lay round the place with his army: andJudas came upon the city in the morning; and when he foundthat the enemy were making an assault upon the walls, and thatsome of them brought ladders, on which they might get uponthose walls, and that others brought engines to [batter them],he bid the trumpeter to sound his trumpet, and he encouragedhis soldiers cheerfully to undergo dangers for the sake of theirbrethren and kindred; he also parted his army into three bo足dies, and fell upon the backs of their enemies. But when Ti足motheus' men perceived that it was Maccabeus that was uponthem, of both whose courage and good success in war they .hadformerly had sufficient experience, they were put to flight; butJudas followed them with his army, and slew about eight thou足sand of them. He then turned aside to a city of the foreignerscalled Mails, and took it, and slew all the males, and burnt thecity itself. He then removed from thence, and overthrew Cas-peom, and Bosor, and many other cities of the land of Gilead. 4. But not long after this Timotheus prepared a great army,and took many others as auxiliaries, and induced some of theArabians, by the promise of rewards, to go with him in thisexpedition, and came with his army beyond the brook, overagainst the city Raphon. And he encouraged his soldiers, if itcame to a battle with the Jews, to fight courageously, and tohinder their passing over the brook: for he said to them before足hand, That "if they come over it, we shall be beaten." Andwhen Judas heard that Timotheus prepared himself to fight, hetook all his own army, and went in haste against Timotheus hisenemy; and when he had passed over the brook, he fell uponhis enemies, and some of them met him, whom he slew, andothers of them he so terrified, that he compelled them to throwdown their arms, and fly; and some of them escaped, but someof them fled to what was called the temple at Carnaim, andhoped thereby to preserve themselves; but Judas took the city,and slew them, and burnt the temple, and so used several waysof destroying his enemies. 5. When he had done this, he gathered the Jews together,with their children, and wives, and the substance that belongedto them, and was going to bring them back into Judea: but assoon as he was come to a certain city, whose name was Ephron.