OCR Output AN. 239 1076.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sand horsemen. Now when the king of theHebrews understood that the Ammonites hadagain gathered so great an army together, hedetermined to make war with them no longerby his generals, but passed over the riverJordan himself, with all his army; and whenhe met them he joined battle with them, andslew forty thousand of their footmen, andseven thousand of their horsemen. He alsowounded Shobach, the general of Chalaman'sforces, who died of that stroke. But thepeople of Mesopotamia, upon such a conclu­sion of the battle, delivered themselves up toDavid, and sent him presents. Who atwinter-time returned to Jerusalem; but atthe beginning of the spring* he sent Joab,the captain of his host, to fight against theAmmonites; who over-ran all their country,and laid it waste, and shut them up in theirmetropolis, Rabbah, and besieged themtherein. CHAP. VII. of david's adultery with bathsheba, and his murderop her husband uriah, for which he was reprovedby nathan. BUT David fell now into a very grievoussin, though he were otherwise naturallya righteous and a religious man, and one thatfirmly observed the laws of our fathers. Forwhen late in an evening he took a view roundhim from the roof of his royal palace,t wherehe used to walk at that hour; he saw a wo­man washing herself in her own house.J She was one of extraordinary beauty, and thereinsurpassed all other women. Her name wasBathsheba. So he was overcome by that wo­man's beauty, and was not able to restrain hisdesires, but sent for her,|| and lay with her.Hereupon she conceived, and sent to the king,that he should contrive some way for conceal­ing her sin: for according to the laws of theirfathers, she who had been guilty of adulteryought to be put§ to death. So the king sentfor Joab's armour-bearer, from the siege; whowas the woman's husband, and his name wasUriah.** And when he was come, the kinginquired of him about the army, and aboutthe siege; and when he made answer that alltheir affairs went according to their wishes,the king took some portions of meat from hissupper, and gave them to him, and bade himgo home to his wife, and take his rest withher. Uriah did not do so, but slept near theking, with the rest of his armour-bearers.When the king was informed of this, he askedhim why he did not go home to his house,and to his wife, after so long an absence?which is the natural custom of all men, whenthey come from a long journey. He replied,that it was not right, while his fellow-soldiers,and the general of the army slept upon theground, in the camp, and in an enemy's coun­try, that he should go and take his rest withhis wife. When he had thus replied, the kingordered him to stay there that night; that hemight dismiss him the next day to the general.So the king invited Uriah to supper, and aftera cunning and dexterous manner supplied him * An. 1076. t The manner of building, in all eastern countries,was to have their houses flat-roofed with a terrace, andparapet wall, for the convenience of walking in the coolair; and as David's palace was built on one of the highestplaces of Mount Sion, he might easily look down uponthe lower parts of the town, and take a view of all thegardens that were within due distance; he Clerc's Com­mentary. B. | Thus Jupiter is said to have seen Proserpina washingherself, and exposing her whole body to his view, whichinflamed his lust after her: Aioftdvms oXov SiSog idipxSTo IlijptfsqjovsiTis. But whether it was in her garden, or court-yard, over­looked by the palace, or in some apartment in her house,whose windows opened that way, that this woman bathedherself, it is not so certain. Tradition points out theplace of a fountain still called after her name, whichwould make it probable that she bathed in a garden, didnot Josephus expressly declare that it was in her ownhouse, as indeed the natural modesty and decency of her sex, as well as the circumstance of the time, (for then itwas evening,) make his account more probable; nor canit be doubted, but that the declining rays of the sun, shoot­ing into the inmost recesses of her chamber, and throwinga great lustre around her, might discover her very clearlyto very distant eyes, without the least suspicion on herpart, of any possibility of being seen, and consequentlywith all the reserve of modesty proper to her sex; TheHistory of the Life of King David, vol. iii. B. II 2 Sam. xi. 2—5. § Levit. xx. 10. ** Uriah, though a Hittite by nation, was proselyted tothe Jewish religion, and so marrying with a Jewish wo­man, lived in Jerusalem; or as he was one of the king'slife-guard, which for reasons above mentioned, seem tohave been all natives, and of the tribe of Judah, this addi­tional name might perhaps be given him, for some gallantaction achieved against the Hittites, in the same manneras a Roman, in after ages, came to be called Africanus,Germanicus, Parthicus, &c. upon account of the victoriesobtained over the Africans, Germans, or Parthians; Cal-mefs Commentary. B.