OCR Output 232 MAGNATA. MAGNOPOLIS. that the Tarentine colony of Heraclea was selectedin the first instance for the place of assembly, as theTarcntincs seem at first to hare kept aloof from thecontest, and it is very doubtful whether they wereincluded in the league at all. But it was naturalthat, when the Tarcntines assumed the leading posi­tion among the allied cities, the councils shouldbe transferred to their colony of Heracles, just asAlexander of Epirus afterwards sought to transferthem from thence to the river Acalandrus in thoThurian territory, as a mark of enmity towards theTarentines. (Strab. I.e.) [E. H. B.] MAGNATA. [Nagnatak.]MAGNE'SIA, MAGXE'TES. [Thessalia.]MAGNE'SIA (Maynjir/o: Eth. MdVnr.) I.A city in Ionia, generally with the addition irpoior «V1 MaudfSptp (ud Maeandrum), to distinguishit from tho Lydian Magnesia, was a considerablecity, situated on the slope of mount Thorax, onthe hanks of the small river Lethacus, a tributaryof the Maeander. Its distance from Miletus was120 stadia or 15 miles. (Strab. xiv. pp. 636, 647;Hin. v. 31.) It was an Aeolian city, said to havebeen founded by Magnesians from Europe, in theeast of Thessaly, who were joined by 6ome Cretans.It soon attained great power and prosperity, so as tobe able to cope even with Ephesus (Callinus, ap.Strab. xiv. p. 647.) At a later time, however, thecity was taken and destroyed by the Cimmerians;perhaps about B. c. 726. In the year following thedeserted site was occupied, and the place rebuilt bythe Milesians,or, according to Athcnaeus (xii. p. 525),by the Ephesiaas. Themistocles during his exiletook up his residence at Magnesia, tho town havingbeen assigned to him by Artaxerxes to supply himwith bread. (Nepos, Themiit. 10; Died. xi. 57.)The Persian satraps of Lydi* also occasionally re-aided in the place. (Herod, i. 161, iii. 122.) Theterritory of Magnesia was extremely fertile, and pro­duced excellent wine, figs, and cucumbers (Athcn. i.p. 29, ii. p. 59, iii. p. 78.) Tho town contained atemple of Dindymene, the mother of the gods; andthe wife of Themistocles, or, according to others, hisdaughter, was priestess of that divinity; but, saysStrabo (p. 647), the temple no longer exists, thetown having been transferred to another place. Thenew town which the geographer saw, was most re­markable for its temple of Artemis Leucophryene,which in size anil in the number of its treasureswas indeed surpassed by the temple of Ephesus, but inbeauty and the harmony of its parts was superior to alltho temples in Asia Minor. The change in the siteof the town alluded to by Strabo, is not noticed byany other author. The temple, as we learn fromVitruviua (vii. Praefnt.), was built by the architectHermogenes, in the Ionic style. In the time of theKomans, Magnesia was added to tho kingdom ofI'ergamus, after Antiochus had been driven eastwardbeyond Mount Taurus. (Liv. xxxvii. 45, xxxviii.13.) After this time the town seems to have decayed,and is rarely mentioned, though it is still noticedby I'liny (v. 31) and Tacitus {Ann. iv. 55).Hierocles (p. 659) ranks it among the bishoprics ofAsia, and later documents seem to imply that at onetime it bore the name of Maeandropolis. (Coniil.Constantin. iii. p. 666.) The existence of the townin the time of the emperors Aurelius and Gallienusis attested by coins. Formerly the site of Magnesia was identified withthe modern Gtuel-hiuar; but it is now generallyaduiitted, tliat Jntk-bazar, where ruins of the temple of Artemis Leucophryene still exist, is the site ofthe ancient Magnesia. (!.eake. Alia Minor, pp. 242,foil.; Arumh'll, &rrn C iitrchtj, pp. 58, full.; Cramer,Alia Minor, vol. i. pp. 459, foil.) COIN OF MAGNESIA AD MAEANDRfJf. 2. A town of Lydia, usually with the additionwpot or inrb 3.i*i\<? (ad Sipylum), to distinguishit from Magnesia on the Maeander in Ionia, situatedon the north-western slope of Mount Sipylus, on thesouthern bank of the river Hermus. VVe are docinformed when or by whom the town was founded,but it may have been a settlement of the Magnesia:jin the east of Thessaly. Magnesia is mint celebratedin history for the victory gained under its wall*by the two Scipios in n. c. 190, over Antiochusthe Great, whereby the king was for ever drivenfrom Western Asia. (Strab. xiii. p. 622; Plin. ii.93; Ptol. v. 2. I 16, viii. 17. § 16; Scylax, p. 37;Liv. xxxvii. 37, foil.; Tac. Ann. ii. 47.) The town,after the victory of the Scipios, surrendered to theRomans. (Appian, Syr. 35.) During the war againstMithridates the Magnesians defended themselvesbravely against the king. (Paus. i. 20. § .1) lathe reign of Tiberius, the town was nearly destroyedby an earthquake, in which several other Asiaticcities perished; and the emperor on that occasiongranted liberal sums from the treasury to repair theloss sustained by the inhabitants (Strab. xii. p. 579;xiii. p. 622; Tac. /. c.) From coins and other source*,we learn that Magnesia continued to flourish downto the fifth century (Uierocl. p. 660); and it is oftenmentioned by the Byzantine writers. During theTurkish rule, it once was the residence of the Sultan;but at present it is much reduced, though it preservesits ancient name in the corrupt form of .1/wiuao.The ruins of ancient buildings are not very conai-dcrable. (Chandler, Tramli in Alia, ii. p. MS;Kcppcl, TravtU, ii. p. 295.) The accompanyingcoin is remarkable by having on its obverse the beadof Cicero, though the reason why it appears bent, taunknown. The legend, which is incorrectly figured,should be, MAPK02 TTAAIOS KIKEPflN. [L.S.] COIN OP MAGNESIA AD Ml'tl.l V. MAGNOTOLIS (M<ryroVoAu). a town in Pantos,at the confluence of the rivers I.yrus and Iris, wmafounded by Mithridates Eupator, who railed itEupatoria; but it was completed by Puenpev theGreat, wbo changed its name intoMagnopolia (Strab.xii. p. 556). The town seems to ban fallen rite