OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 21 ropean provinces, which extended from the columns of Herculesto the wall of Antoninus, and from the mouth of the Tagus to thesources of the Rhine and Danube. Before the Roman conquest, the country which is now called Italy.Lombardy, was not considered as a part of Italy. It had beenoccupied by a powerful colony of Gauls, who settling themselvesalong the banks of the Po, from Piedmont to Romagna, carriedtheir arms and their name from the Alps to the Apenninc. TheLigurians dwelt on the rocky coast, which now forms the republicof Genoa. Venice was yet unborn; but the territories of that state,which lie to the east of the Adige, were inhabited by the Vene­tians **. The middle part of the peninsula, that now composes thechitchy of Tuscany and the ecclesiastical state, was the ancient seatof the Etruscans and Umbrians; to the former of whom Italywas indebted for the first rudiments of a civilized life 7J. The Ty-ber rolled at the foot of the seven hills of Rome, and the countryof the Sabines, the Latins, and the Volsci, from that river to thefrontiers of Naples, was the theatre of her infant victories. Onthat celebrated ground the first consuls deserved triumphs; theirsuccessors adorned villas, and their posterity have erected con­vents '4. Capua and Campania possessed the immediate territory ofNaples; the rest of the kingdom was inhabited by many warlikenations, the Marsi, the Samnites, the Apulians, and the Luca-»nians; and the sea coasts had been covered by the flourishing colo­nies of the Greeks. We may remark, that when Augustus dividedItaly into eleven regions, the little province of Istria was annexed tothat feat of Roman sovereignty77. The European provinces of Rome were protected by the course The Danubeof the Rhine and the Danube. The latter of those mighty streams *nd n|yrian o J 7 frontier, which rises at the distance of only thirty miles from the former,flows above thirteen hundred miles, for the most part, to the south­east, collects the tribute of sixty navigable rivers, and is, at length, through.