OCR Output SIPIA. SIPYLUS. 1011 lyoum B. sben he speaks of S.'«>iw toti)- r. *ptaos possessed a city of the same name (Ptol.IS. j 31), and also two other towns, Apollonia1 lfiooa, mentioned only by Stephanus B. Theml city occupied the same site as the modernLolled Ktutron or Seraglio, which lies upon*<ltm side of the island. There are some re-:i A the indent walls; and fragments of marble(aid, with which, as we hare already seen, thein- tuijdingi in antiquity were decorated. A[t of maintains, about 3000 feet in height, runs■ Spates from SE. to NW.; and on the highal between this mountain and the eastern side»jsuoid, about 10HX) feet above the sea, lie five•nkets, of which Stavri is the principal. These(n i.main from 4000 to 5000 inhabitants;tlx town of Ktutron about another 1000. Theit ii healthy, and many of the inhabitants.ij i <r«st age. The island is well cultivated,dies not produce sufficient food for its popu-» uid accordingly many Siphnians are obligedif me. sad are found in considerable numbers inb, Smyrna, and Constantinople. (Toumefort,if, <ic. vol. i. p. 134, seq. transl.; Fiedler,>. nd. ii. p. 125, seq.; Bass, Reitc auf denA liueU, voL i. p. 138, seq.) cone or sipicios. 1A, in Gallia, is placed by the Table on aram Condate ( Rennet) to Juliom.igus(/ln'/enr).face from Condate to Sipia is xvi. and this» brings as to a little river Seehe at a placeIVwcae, the Vi being probably a corruptiontun. The same distance xvi. measured fromt» brings na to Combaristam (Combre") on the iaacrs. But see the article Combaiustum.ri« is a branch of the Vilaau (D'Anvillc, •V) [G. L.] ATVM, or SIPUNTUM, but in Greek al-UT'S (Itwovs -ovrros: Kth. Xnrovmoi, Si-• Mo Maria at Siponto), a city of Apulia, > o the coast of the Adriatic, immediately S.fr-at promontory of Garganus, and in thet tie deep bay formed by that promontory";- loogalion of the coast of Apulia. (Strab.1) This bay in now called the Gulf of•"■•a, from the city of that name which iswithin a few miles of the site of Sipontum.taJos, or Crrraro, and the Candelaro fall > bay a abort distance S. of Sipontum, andtheir mouth an extensive lagune or salt- aj (tTouaXifirn, Strab. /. c.).now called the•Sodso. Like most places in this part ofhe foundation of Si poo turn was ascribed toXrab. I c): but with the exception of thisobscure tradition, which probably meansthan that the city was one of thine belonging■sniaa tribe of Apulians, we have no ac-ita being a Greek colony. The name isuiegnis in form to others in this part of Italy (Hydruntum, Butuntum, &c.); and its Greekderivation from cvprla, a cuttle-fish (Strab. I.e.), isin all probability fictitious The Greek form Si pus,is adopted also by the Roman poets. (Sil. Ital. viii.633; Lucan. v. 377.) The only mention of Sipontumin history before the Roman conquest is that of itscapture by Alexander, king of Epirus, about n. c330. (Liv. viii. 24). Of the manner in which itpassed under the yoke of Rome we have no account;but in u. c. 194 a colony of Roman citizens wassettled there, at the same time that those of Salemumand Bnxentum were established on the other sea.(Liv. xxxiv. 45.) The lands assigned to the colo­nists are said to have previously belonged to theArpani, which renders it probable that Sipontumitself had been merely a dependency of that city.The new colony, however, does not seem to haveprospered. A few years later (u.c. 184) we aretold that it was deserted, probably on account ofmalaria; hut a fresh body of colonist* was sentthere (Liv. xxxix. 22), and it seems from this timeto have become a tolerably flourishing town, and wasfrequented as a seaport, though never rising to anygreat consideration. Its principal trade was incom. (Strab. vi. p, 284; Mel. ii. 4. § 7; Plin. iii.11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 16; Pol. x. 1.) It is, how­ever, mentioned apparently as a place of some im­portance, during the Civil Wars, being occupiedby M. Antonius in B. c. 40. (Appian, B. C. r.56; Dion Cass, xlviii. 27.) We learn from in­scriptions that it retained its municipal govern­ment and magistrates, as well as the title of acolony, under the Roman Empire (Mommscn, Inter.R. If. 927—929); and at a later period PaulusDiaconus mentions it as still one of the " urbessatis opulentae" of Apulia. (P.Diac llitU Lung. ii.21.) Lucan notices its situation immediately at thefoot of Mount Garganus ('■ subdita Sipus montibus,"Lucan, v. 377). It was, however, actually situatedin the plain and immediately adjoining the marshesat the mouth of the Candelaro, which must alwayshave rendered the site unhealthy; and in the middleages it fell into decay from this cause, till in 1250Manfred king of Naples removed all the remainingpopulation to a site about a mile and a half furtherN., where he built a new city, to which he gave thename of Hanfrtdonia. No ruins of the ancient cityare now extant, but the site is still marked by anancient church, which bears the name of Sta Mariadi Siponto, and is still termed the cathedral, thearchbishop of Manfredonia bearing officially thetitle of Archbishop of Sipontum. (Craven's SouthernTour, p. 67; Romanelli, voL ii. p. 209.) The nameof Sipontum is found in the Itineraries (/'.•. Ant.p. 314; Tab. Pent.), which give a line of road pro­ceeding along the coast from thence to Barium,passing by the Salinae at the mouth of the PalusSalapina, and therefore following the narrow strip ofbeach which separated that lagune from the sea.There is still a good horse-road along this beach; butthe distances given in the Itineraries are certainlycorrupt. [E. H. B.] SI'PYLUS (Sfwt/Aoi), a mountain of Lydia be­tween the river Hermus and the town of Smyrna; Itis a branch of Mount Tmolns, running in a north­western direction along the Hermus. It is a rugged,much torn mountain, which seems to owe its presentform to violent convulsions of the earth. Themountain is mentioned even in the Iliad, and wasrich in metal. (Horn. //. xxiv. 615; Stnib. i. p. 58,xii. p. 579, xiv. p .680.) On the eastern slope of the 3 T 8