OCR Output 116 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. .them; and, lest he should embitter the multi-,tude, he only desired the heads of the tribesto bring their rods,* with the names of theirtribes inscribed upon them; and he shouldreceive the priesthood in whose rod Godshould give a sign. This was agreed to; sothe rest brought their rods, as did Aaron also;who had written the tribe of Levi on his rod.These rods Moses laid up in the tabernacle ofGod. On the next day he brought out therods, which were known from one another bythose who brought them; they having dis­tinctly noted them, as had the multitude also;and as to the rest, in the same form Moseshad received them, in that they saw themstill: but they also saw buds and branchesgrown out of Aaron's rod, with ripe almondsupon them; the rod having been cut out ofthat tree. The people were so amazed atthis strange sight, that though Moses andAaron were before under some degree ofhatred, they now laid that hatred aside, andbegan to admire the judgment of God con­cerning them. So that hereafter they ap­plauded what God had decreed, and per­mitted Aaron to enjoy the priesthood peace­ably. And thus God ordained him priestthree several times, and he retained that ho­nour without farther disturbance. And herebythis sedition of the Hebrews, which had lasteda great while, was at length composed. And now Moses, because the tribe of Leviwas made free from war and warlike expedi­tions, and was set'apart for the Divine wor­ship; lest they should want, and seek afterthe necessaries of life, and so neglect thetemple, commanded the Hebrews, accordingto the will of God, that when they shouldgain the possession of the land of Canaan,they should assign forty-eight good cities tothe Levites, and permit them to enjoy theirsuburbs, as far as the limit of two thousandcubits would extend from the walls of the city.And besides this, he appointed that the peopleshould pay the tithe of their annual fruits ofthe earth, both to the Levites, and to thepriests. And this is what that tribe receivesof the multitude. But I think it necessary toset down what is paid by all, peculiarly to thepriests. * Concerning these twelve rods of the twelve tribes ofIsrael, see St. Clement's account, much larger than thatin our Bible. 1 Epist. § 43. Accordingly he commanded the Levites toyield up to the priests thirteen of their forty-eight cities; and to set apart for them thetenth part of the tithe which they every yearreceive of the people; as also that it was butjust to offer to God the first fruits of the entireproduct of the ground; and that they shouldoffer the first-born of those four-footed beaststhat are appointed for sacrifices, if it be amale, to the priests, to be slain, that they andtheir entire families may eat them in the holycity; but that the owners of those first-born,which are not appointed for sacrifices, in thelaws of our country, should bring a shekeland a half in their stead; but for the first-bornof a man, five shekels: that they should alsohave the first-fruits out of the shearing of thesheep; and that when any baked bread-corn,and made loaves of it, they should give some­what of what they baked to them. More­over, when any have made a sacred vow; Imean those that are called Nazarites,f thatsuffer their hair to grow long, and use nowine: when they consecrate their hair, andoffer it for a sacrifice, they are to allot thathair to the priests, to be thrown into the fire.Such, also, as dedicate themselves to God, asa corban, which denotes what the Greeks calla gift, when they are desirous of being freedfrom that ministration, are to lay down moneyfor the priests; thirty shekels if it be a woman,and fifty if it be a man; but if any be too poorto pay the appointed sum, it shall be lawfulfor the priest to determine the sum, as theythink fit. And if any slay a beast at home,for a private festival, but not for a religiousone, they are obliged to bring the maw, andthe cheek, or breast, and the right shoulderof the sacrifice, to the priests. With theseMoses contrived" that the priests should beplentifully maintained; besides what they hadout of these offerings for sins, which the peoplegave them, as I have set it down in the fore­going book. He also ordered, that out ofevery thing allotted for the priests, their ser­vants, their sons, their daughters, and theirwives, should partake as well as themselves:excepting what came to them out of the sa­crifices that were offered for sins. For ofthose none of the family of the priests might t Grotius observes, that the Greeks, as well as theJews, sometimes consecrated the hair of their heads to th -*gods. On Numb vi. 18.