OCR Output CHAP, XLVlf. f? Paul, The powers of government were strained in hisA,». 538. SUpport; he might appoint or displace the dukesand tribunes of Egypt; the allowance of bread whichDiocletian had granted, was suppressed, the churcheswere shut, and a nation of schismatics was deprived atonce of their spiritual and carnal food. In his turn thetyrant Was excommunicated by the zeal and revenge ofthe people; and none except bis servile Melchites wouldsalute him as a man, a Christian, Ot a bishop. Yetsuch is the blindness of ambition, that when Paul wasexpelled ofl a charge of murder1, he solicited, with abribe of seven hundred pounds of gold, his restorationA to the same station of hatred and ignominy. His successor Apollinaris entered the hostile 'city in military array, alike qualified for' prayeror for battle. His troops, under arms, were distributedthrough the streets; the gates of the cathedral wereguarded, and a chosen band was stationed in the choir,to defend the person of their chief. He stood erect dtthis throne, and throwing aside the upper garment ofa warrior, suddenly appeared before the eyes of the mul­titude in the robes of patriarch of Alexandria. Astonish­ment held them mute; but no sooner had Apollinarisbegan to read the tome of St. Leo, than a volley ofcurses, and invectives, and stones, assaulted the odious-minister of the emperor and the synod. A charge wasinstantly sounded by the successor of the apostles; thesoldiers waded to their knees in blood, and two hun­dred thousand Christians are said to have fallen by thesrword ; an incredible account, even if it be extended fromtire slaughter of a day to the eighteen years of the reignof Apollinaris. Two succeeding patriarchs, Enlogius* h Eulogius, who had been a monk of Ant inch , was more conspicuous for subtletythan eloquence. He proves that the enemies of the faith, the Gaianites and Theodo-sians, ought not io be reconciled; that the same proposition may be orthodox in themuuth of St. Cyril, heretical in that of Severus; that the opposite assertions of St.Leo are equally trne, &£. Ilia writings are no longer extant, except in the ex­tracts- of Photius, who had pdrtlsed them with care and satisfaction. Cod. -'Hi. 325—317. 230. 880.