OCR Output DISCOURSE I. XXXV " In Thrace, says he, lay also the possessions of Thucy-" dides and his wealthy mines of gold, as he himself pro-" fesseth in his fourth book. And although those riches" might come to him by a wife (as is also by some affirmed)" which he married in Scapte-Hyle, a city of Thrace; yet" even by that marriage it appeareth, that his affairs had" a relation to that country, and that his nobility was not" there unknown." I cannot believe, that Thucydides evermarried a lady that was not purely Attic. He seems tohave been high-spirited in this respect, and proud of hiscountry. Miltiades indeed had married a Thracian princess;and nothing, but the vast estate brought into the family bythis match, could have made his descendants easy with sucha blemish in their pedigree : For a blemish undoubtedly itmust have been thought at Athens. Let us see how Thucy­dides himself drops his sentiment of such another match.The passage I have in view occurs in the sixth book. Heis speaking of Hippias the son of Pisistratus, tyrant ofAthens. " To iEantidas the son of Hippoclus tyrant of" Lampsacus—to a Lampsacene, though he himself was an" Athenian—he married his daughter Archedice." I can­not think, that he, who let such a sarcasm fall from hisown serious pen, could ever condescend to marry a Barba­rian, let her fortune be never so great. The reader, if itbe worth his while to think at all about it, may determinefor himself.—This digression was caused by the expressmention Thucydides hath made of his mines, the very mo­ment he is going to enter the lists against the most gallantand active commander at this time in the armies of theLacedaemonian league. It was Brasidas, the Spartan, who was now at the headof the Peloponnesian troops in Thrace. He had made aforced march thither through Thessaly and Macedonia. Byhis fine deportment and his persuasive address, joined touncommon vigilance and activity, he had hitherto carriedall before him. He at length endeavoured to get possession