OCR Output C HAP. XLVI.] Op THE ROMAN EMPIRE, of the naked and hungry inhabitants. Singidunum, atthe distance of fifty miles, experienced a more cruel fate:the buildings were rased, and the vanquished peoplewere condemned to servitude and exile. Yet the ruins ofSirmium are no longer visible; the advantageous situa­tion of Singidunum soon attracted a new colony of Scla-vonians, and the conflux of the Save and Danube is stillguarded by the fortifications of Belgrade, or the WhiteCity, so often and so obstinately disputed by the Chris­tian and Turkish arms." From Belgrade to the walls ofConstantinople, a line may be measured of six hundredmiles: that line was marked with flames and with blood;the horses of the Avars were alternately bathed in theEuxine and the Adriatic; and the Roman pontiff alarm­ed by the approach of a more savage enemy/was reducedto cherish the Lombards as the protectors of Italy. Thedespair of a captive, whom his country refused to ran­som, disclosed to the Avars the intention and practice ofmilitary engines;° but in the first attempts, they wererudely framed and awkwardly managed; and the resist­ance of Diocletianopolis and Beraea, of Philippopolis andAdrianople, soon exhausted the skill and patience of thebesiegers. The warfare of Baian was that of a Tartar,yet his mind was susceptible of a humane and generoussentiment: he spared Anchialus, whose salutary watershad restored the health of the best beloved of his wives;and the Romans confess, that their starving army wasfed and dismissed by the liberality of a foe. His empireextended over Hungary, Poland, and Prussia, from themouth of the Danube to that of the Oder ;b and his new e See d'Anville, in the Memoires tie. l'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom. 28. p. 412-—443. The Sclavonic name of Belgrade is mentioned in the tenth century by Constan-tine Porpbyrogenitus ; the Latin appellation of Alha Graeca is used by the Pranks tifethe beginning of the ninth, (p. 414.) f Baron. Annal. Eccles. A. D. 600. no. 1. Paul Warnefrid (lib. 4. c. 38.) relates'their irrnption into Frinli.and (c. 39.) the captivity of his ancestors, alxiut A. 1). 6:i^.. The Sclavi traversed the Hadriatic, cum multitudine navium, and made a descent inthe territory of Siiiontmn. (c. 47.) S Even the helepolis, or moveable turret. Theophylaot, lib. 2. 16, 17. b The arms and alliances of tho clmgan reached to the neighbourhood of a westernsea, fifteen months'journey from Constantinopte. The emperor Maurice conversed VOL. V. 1 H