OCR Output CHAP. LI. 365 day of succour. The day of concussion might expressthe disorder of one, or perhaps of both, of the contendingarmies. The third, a nocturnal tumult, received thewhimsical name of the night of barking, from the dis­cordant clamours, which were compared to the inarticu­late sounds of the fiercest animals. The morning of thesucceeding day determined the fate of Persia; and aseasonable whirlwind drove a cloud of dust against thefaces of the unbelievers. The clangour of arms was re­echoed to the tent of Rustam, who, far unlike the ancienthero of his name, was gently reclining in a cool andtranquil shade, amidst the baggage of his camp, and thetrain of mules that were laden with gold and silver. Onthe sound of danger he started from his couch; but hisflight was overtaken by a valiant Arab, who caught himby the foot, struck off his head, hoisted it on a lance,and instantly returning to the field of battle, carriedslaughter and dismay among the thickest ranks of thePersians. The Saracens confess a loss of seven thou­sand five hundred men; and the battle of Cadesia isjustly described by the epithets of obstinate and atro­cious.1 The standard of the monarchy was overthrownand captured in the field,—a leathern apron of a black­smith, who, in ancient times, had arisen the deliverer ofPersia; but this badge of heroic poverty was disguised,and almost concealed, by a profusion of precious gems.yAfter this victory, the wealthy province of Irak or Assy­ria submitted to the caliph, and his conquests werefirmly established by the speedy foundation of Bas-sora,z a place which ever commands the trade and navi­gation of the Persians. At the distance of fourscore * Atrox, contumax, plus semel renovatum, are the well-chosen expressions ofthe translator of Abnlfeda. (Reiske, p. 69.) r D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 297. 348. 1The reader may satisfy himself on the subject of Bassora, by consulting thefollowing writers.—Geograph. Nubians, p.121. D'Herbelot, BibliothrqueOrientale,p. 199. D'Anville, 1'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 13O. 133.145. Raynal, Hist. Philoso-phique des deux Indes, torn. 2. p. 92—10O. Voyages de Pietro della Valle, torn. p.370—391. De Tavcraier, torn. 1. p. 240—247. De Thevenot, torn. 2. p. 545—584.D'Otter, torn. 3. p. 45—78. De Niebuhr, torn. 2. p. 172—199.