OCR Output soa LUCANIA. LUCAXIA. had not, however, subdued the Greek cities on thecoasts, some of which fell at a later period under thejoke of the Bruttians; while others maintained theirindependence, though for the most part in a decayedand eufeebled condition, till the period of the Romandominion. [Magna Gbaecia.] Shortly afterwards,the Lucanians lost the Bruttian peninsula, theirmost recent acquisition, by the revolt of the Brut­tians, who, from a mere troop of outlaws and ban­ditti, gradually coalesced into a formidable nation.[Bkuttii.] The establishment of this power in theextreme south, confined the Lucanians within thelimits which are commonly assigned from this timeforth to their territory; they seem to have acqui­esced, after a brief struggle, in the independence ofof the Bruttians, and soon made common cause withthem against the Greeks. Their arms were nowprincipally directed against the Tarentines, on theireastern frontier. The latter people, who had appa­rently taken little part in the earlier contests of theGreeks with the Lucanians, were now compelled toprovide for their own defence; and successivelycalled in the assistance of Archidamus, king ofSparta, and Alexander, king of Kpirus. Theformer monarch was slain in a battle against theLucanians in n. c. 338. and his whole army cut topieces (Diod. xvi. 63, 88; Strab. vi. p. 280): butAlexander proved a more formidable antagonist: liedefeated the Lucanians (though supported by theSammies) in a great battle near Paestum, as wellas in several minor encounters, took several of theircities, and carried his arms into the heart of Brut-tium, where he ultimately fell in battle near Pan-dosia, B.C. 326. (Liv. viii. 24; Justin, xii. 2.xxiii. I; Strab. vi. p. 256.) It would appear as ifthe power of the Lucanians was considerably brokenat this period j and in B. c. 303, when we next hearof them as engaged in war with the Tarentines, thevery arrival of C'leonymiis from Sparta is said tohave terrified them into the conclusion of a treaty.(Diod. xx. 104.) Meantime the Lucanians had become involved inrelations with a more formidable power. Already,in B.c. 326, immediately after the death of Alexanderking of Kpirus, the Lucanians are mentioned asvoluntarily concluding a treaty of peace and alliancewith Rome, which was then just entering on theSecond Samnito War. (Liv. viii. 25.) We have noexplanation of the causes which led to this changeof policy ; just before, we find them in alliance withthe Samnites, and very shortly after they returnedonce more to their old allies, (lb. 27.) But thoughthey were thus brought into a Btate of directhostility with Rume, it was not till b. c. 317, thatthe course of events allowed the Romans to punishtheir defection. In that year the consuls for thefirst time entered Lucania, and took the town ofNeruluni by assault. (Liv. ix. 20.) The Lucanianswere evidently included iu the pence which put anend to the Second Samnite War (b. c. 304), andfrom this time continued steadfast in the Romanalliance; so that it was the attack made on them bythe Samnites which led to the Third Samnite War,ij. r. 298. (Liv. x. II.) Throughout that strugglethe Lucanians seem to have lieen faithful to Rome;and were piobably admitted to an alliance on favour­able conditions at its cIo*>e. But in B. c. 286, theyhaving turned their anus against Thurii, the Romanstook up the cause of the besieged city, and declaredwar against the Lucanians, over whom M'. Curiusii said to have celebrated an ovation. (Aur. Vict, dt I't'r Illiut. 33); and four years afterwards («. r.282) the allied forces of the Lucanians and Samnites,which had again beleaguered Thurii, were defeatedin a great battle by C. Kabricius. (VaL Max. i. 8.§ 6.) On the arrival of Pyrrhusin Italy (».c. 281)the Lucanians were among the first to declare infavour of that monarch, though it was not till afterhis victory at Ueroclea that they actually sent theircontingent to his support. (1'lut. Pyrr. 13, 17;Zonar. viii. 3.) The Lucanian auxiliaries are espe­cially mentioned in the service of that prince at thebattle of Asculum (Dionys. xx., Fr. Didot): but wbeaPyrrhus withdrew from Italy, he left bis allies atthe mercy of the Roman arms, and the Lucaniansin particular, were exposed to the full brunt of theirresentment. After they had seen their armies de­feated, and their territory ravaged in several suc­cessive compaigns, by C. Fabricius, Cornelius Ku-finus, and M'. Curius, they were at length reducedto submission by Sp. Carvilius and L. Papirri*Cursor in B. c. 272. (Zonar. viii. 6; Eutrop. ii. 14;Liv. Epit. xiii. xiv., Ftut. Cajiit.) From this time the Lucanians continued in undis­turbed subjection to Rome till the Secoud l*unicWar. In the celebrated register of the Roman f.ircsin B.C. 225, the Lucanians (including, probably, theBruttians, who are not separately noticed) are reck­oned as capable of bringing into the field 3O.DO0foot and 3000 horse, so that they must have beenstill a numerot-.s and powerful j>eople. (Pol. ii. 24.)But they suffered severely in the Second Punic War.Having declared ill favour of Hannibal atter thebattle of Cannae (h. c. 21G), their territory lecarorduring many successive campaigns the theatre ofwar, and was ravaged, in turn, by both cimtendiru;armies. Thus, in n.c. 214, it was the scene uf thecontest between Sempronirjs Gracchus and Hanno;in the following year Gracchus employed the wholecampaign within its limits, and it was in Locsmu*that that general met with his untimely death inthe summer of B.C. 212. (Liv. xxii. 61, xxiv. 30,xxv. 1,16.) At length, in B. a 209, the Lacania"»,in conjunction with the Hirpini, abandoned the alli­ance of Hannibal, and betrayed the garrisons wh^cblie had left in their towns into the hands of theRomans; in consideration of which service theywere admitted to favourable terms. (Id. xxvii. 15.)They did not, however, yet escape the evils of war;for in the next year their territory was the scene ofthe campaign of Marcellus and Crispinus againstHannibal, in which both consuls perished; and itwas not till after the battle of the Mctaums, in n.c.207, that Hannibal withdrew his forces into Brut-tium, and abandoned the attempt to maintain hisfooting in Lucania. (Liv. xxvii. 51, xxviii. 11.) Strain* tells us that the Lucanians were puni-hr*!by the Romans for their defection to Hannibal. \-rbeing reduced to the same degraded condition as tf.rBruttians. (Strab. v. p. 251.) But this ran only lwtrue of those among them who had refused to j.an enthe general submission of the people in B.C. 209, T-»tclung to Hannibal to the last: the others wererestored to a somewhat favourable condition, andcontinued to form a considerable nation; though, ifwe may trust to the statement of Strabo. tbrvnever recovered from the ravages of this war. But it was the Social War (n.c. 90—88)thatgaTS the final blow to the prosperity of Lucania. Tb» Lucanians on that occasion were among the first to take up arms; and, after bearing an important part I throughout the contest, they still, in con junction with