OCR Output NIGEIRA. 429 NILI PALL'DES. fhe Nile in size. Chudian could not have intendedbr this river, the Ger of Pliny (v. 1), at the foot ofMt. Atlas, and a desert of black sand and burntnicks (.Yun .'), at which Paullinus arrived in a fewdays' journey from the maritime part of Mauretania;though it is probable that he may have intended,rrf the Geir of Ptolemy, but the Nigeir. The ter­mination Ger was pp.bably a generic word, appliedto all rivers and waters in N. Africa, as well asthe prefix Ni; both were probably derived from theSemitic, and came through the Phoenicians to theGreets. By a not unnatural error, the word becameconnected with the epithet " Niger," and thus thens'iie Nigritae or Nigretes was synonymous withSvh'm ('.he Blacks); the real etymology of the nametends to explain the common belief of the Africans,that all the waters of their country flow to theNile. It is from this notion of the identity of allthe waters of N. Africa that Pliny received theabsurd account of the Nile and Niger, from thesreond Jnba of Numidia. He reported that theNile bad its origin in a mountain of Lower Maure­tania, not far from the Ocean, in a stagnant lakeca W Xilis; that it flowed from thence throughfan.ir deserts, in which it was concealed for severaldays; that it reappeared in a great lake in Maure­tania Caesariensis; that it was again hidden fort»cctr days in deserts; and that it rose again in theKmrces of the Nigris, which river, after having sepa­rated Africa from Aethiopia, and then flowed throughthe middle of Aethiopia, at length became theIrnnch of the Nile called Astapus. The same fable,th'ioch without the Nigeir being mentioned, isalluded to by Strabo (xvii p. 826; comp. Vitrav.riii 1 § 16); while Mela (iii. 9. § 8) adds that theriver at its source was also called Dara, so thatthe river which now bears the name El-DharammlJ seem to be the stream which was the reputedwmmencement of the Nile. The Niger of Pliny wasebviouily a dinerent river, both in its nature and po-siti<*i, from the Ger of the same author. It was situ­ated to the S. of the great desert on the line separatingAfrica from Aethiopia; and its magnitude and pro-dnrtMOs, snch as the hippopotamus and crocodile,cartw be made to correspond to any of the smallrivers of the Atlas. Neither do these swell at thenine season as the Nile, being fed, not by tropicalram, falling in greatest quantity near the summeraeUtice, but by the waters of the maritime ridges,•Huch are most abundant in winter. The Niger isa* mentioned by the Geographer of Ravenna, northe Arabs, until the work of Joannes Leo Africanus—a Spanish Moor—which was written at Rome, andpibliined hi Latin, a. r>. 1556. Though his work is'■u*x valuable, in being the only account extant of theknidation of the Negro empires of Sudan, yet he isis error upon this point, as though he had .sailed onthe river near Timbuktu; lie declares that the streamdt*s not flow to the E., as it is known to do, butto the W. to Cento or Jenne. This mistake ledKaroDrana to look for its estuary in the Senegal,Gambia, and Rio Grande, The true course of thernvr. which has now been traced to its mouth, con­firms the statements of the ancients as to the greatriver which thev uniformly describe as flowing fromW. to E. [E. B. J.] NKiEiBA. [Nigritae.] NIGEB-PULLUS, Nigropullom, or Nigropullo, inX-anh Gallia, is placed by the Theodosian Table ona road from Lugdunum Batavorum (Iseidcn) to No-vioraju (Aynwyaen). The distance is marked 11 from Albiniana (Alfen), ascending the Rhine.Ukert (Gallien, p. 533) quotes a Dutch author, whosays that there is a village near Woerden stillcalled Zwarte Kuikenbuurt. (D'Anville, Notice,cjo.) [G. L.] NIGRI'TAE, NIGRE'TES (Xtyphai, Strab. ii.p. 131, xvii. p. 826; Ptol. iv. 6. § 16; Agathcm.ii. 5; Mela, i. 4. § 3, iii. 10. § 4; Plin. v. 8;Nryprjrfj, Strab. xvii. p. 828; Dionys. v. 215;Steph. B.), an African tribe who with the Pharnsiiwere said to have destroyed the Tyrian settlementson the coast of the Atlantic, and though adjacentto the W. Aethiopians, were distant only thirtyjourneys from Linx or Lixus (ELAraisK). Strabo,as it appears, had no knowledge, or, at least, placedno confidence, in any information which may havereached him as to the countries more to the S. thanFezzan. But if he was so ignorant of Libya, andparticularly of the position of the W. Aethiopians(comp. p. 839), no great weight can be attached tohis testimony, that the Nigritae and Pharusii, whomhe expressly states to have been near those Aethio­pians, were only thirty journeys from Lixus, par­ticularly when he accompanies the remark with thedoubtful word <patrl, and with his marvellous storiesabout the productions of Mauretania. Ptolemy (I.e.')places them on the N. of the river Nigeir, from-which they took their name. It may be inferred,therefore, that they are to be sought in the interiorbetween the Quorra or Djol'dm and the Sandra inthe Biledu-l-Suddn. Their chief town was calledNigeira (Niyeipopirrp6vo\is, Ptol. iv. 6. § 27):the Nigritis Lacls (Nrypms Muvn, § 14) maybe identified with the lake Dibbeh to the SW. ofTimbuktu. [E. B. J.J NIGRINIA'NA. [Candidiana.] NIGRI'TIS LACUS. [Nigritae.] NIGRUS. [Mogrits.] NILI PALUDES (oi row N«.'aod \turat, Ptol.iv. 9. § 3; Strab. xvii. p. 786) were described bythe ancient geographers as two immense lagoons,which received the first floods of the periodical rainsthat from May to September fall upon the Abys­sinian highlands, and swell all the rivers flowingnorthward from that table-land. From these lagoonsthe Astapus (Bahr-cl-Azrelc, Blue River) and theBahr-el-Abiad, or White Rircr, respectively derivedtheir waters; and since they were the principaltributaries of the Nile, the lakes which fed themwere termed the Nilotic Marshes. The ancientsplaced the Nili Palndes vaguely at the foot of theLuuae Montes ; and the exploring party, sent by theemperor Nero, described them to Seneca the philo­sopher as of boundless extent, covered with floutingweeds, and containing black and slimy water, im­passable either by boats or by wading. There is,however, some probability that this exploring partysaw only the series of lagoons produced by the leveland sluggish stream of the White River, since thedescriptions of modem travellers in that region ac­cord closely with Seneca's narrative (An*. Outwit.vi. 8). The White River itself, indeed, resemblesan immense lagoon. It is often from five to sevenmiles in width, and its banks are so low as to bocovered at times with slime to a distance of two orthree miles from the real channel. This river, asless remote than the Abyssinian highlands from theordinary road between Syene and the S. of Meroe(Sennaar), is more likely to have fallen under thenotice of Nero's explorers ; and the extent of slimy, water overspread with aquatic plants, corresponds