OCR Output LOGI. 203 LONDINIUM. without opposition to the Spartan Eurylochtis, whomarcbeii through their territory from Delphi toNsupactus. (Thnc iii. 95, seq.) They belonged ati liter period to the Aetolian League. (Polyb. xviii.30.) The chief and only important town of the Ozolaens Ampiilssa, situated on the borders of Phocis.The other towns, in the direction of W. to E., were:HoLTCRElA; Nautactus; Oeneon; AjiTICIRRHAor Asticyra; ElTALICM; Erythkae; Tolo-rno.w; Htsst'3: Oeauthkia or Okantbe; Ipnus;Ciialaecm; more inland, Aegitii'M; Potidania;Cboctlkium; Teichium; Olpae; Messapia;HrLE; Tkitaea; Myoma. On the geography of the Locrian tribes, see Leake,Xorthem Grace, vol. ii. pp.66, seq., 170, seq.,587,seq. LOGI or LUGI (Adyoi or Aoiryoi), a people inXorth Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 12)is a population to the south of the Mertae, and westof the ComabiL This gives the part about theDornoch, Cromarty, and Murray Firths. [R. G. L.]L0G1A, a river in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemyu between the Vinderius and the Rhobogdian pro­montory. Probably [see Vinderius] the Lagan,filling into Belfast Lough, name for name, and placefor place. * [R. G. L.J LONCIUM {Liens), a place in the south ofNorieum. on the right bank of the river Dravns, atthe point where it receives the feel. (/tin. Ant.p. 279.) The whole district about Lienz aboundsin Roman antiquities. (Gruter, Inscript. p. 267.9; Murhar, Norieum, p. 254.) [L. S.] LONDI'XIUM (AokSuvio*. Ptol. ii. 3. § 27; \a>-SoViov. Stepb. B. s. v.; Londinium, Tuc. Ann. xiv.33; Oppidum Londiniense, Eurnen. Paneg. Const. 17;Londinium, Amm. Marc, xx. 1), the capital of RomanBritain, l'tolemy (Z. c.) places Londinium in thedistrict of the Cantii; but the correctness of thisposition has very naturally been questioned. Moderndiscoveries have, however, decided that the southernlimits of the city, in the time of Hadrian and Anto-fcinos Pius, extended a considerable distance into theterritory of the Cantii; and Ptolemy, therefore, wasnot altogether unwarranted in placing Londinium inthis division of Britain. In earlier times the citywas confined to the northern bank of the Thames. The earliest mention of it is by Tacitus, in hiswfll-known account of the insurrection of the Britonsin the nHjn of Xero. As Britain was only fullyinbiusated by Claudius, Londinium must have m-p*ily advanced U» the importance it assumes in thenarrative of this historian. Although it is not men­tioned by Julius Caesar or by other early writers, thepfldiar natural advantages of the locality point it<«t as one of the chief places of resort of the mer-caina and traders who visited Britain from the<iaaliih ports and from other parts of the continent.A: the comparatively early period in the Romandomination referred to, Londinium is spoken of as» place of established mercantile reputation. Thetbr» chief cities of Britain at this period were\ffolamium, Camulodunum, and Londinium. AtCtnulodunum a colony of veterans had been esta-bl»hed ; Verulamium had received the rights andprivileges of a municipium ;Londinium, without such<£*nctions, had attained by home and foreign tradetint pre-eminence which ever marked her as the me­tropolis of Britain: — " Londinium .... cognomentoStjdem eolimiae non insigne, sed copia negotiatorum etcauuneatnom maxime celebre." (Tac. Ann. xiv. 33.) At this period wo must infer that Londinium waswithout external walls; and this absence of muraldefences appears to have been common also to Voru-lamium and to Camulodunum. The Britons passedby the fortified places and attacked at once tharich and populous cities inadequately defended.Camulodunum was the first to fall; Londiniumand Verulamium speedily followed in a similarcatastrophe. The Itinerary of Antoninus, which is probablynot later thnn the time of Severus, affords directevidence of the chief position which Londinium heldamong the towns and cities of Britain. It occurs inno less than seven of the itinera, and in six of theseit stands either as the place of departure or as theterminus of the routes; no other town is introducedso conspicuously. The next historical mention of Londinium occursin the panegyric of Eumenius addressed to Con-stantius Caesar (c. 17), in which it is termed "oppi-dum Londinicnse." After the defeat of Allectus, thevictorious Romans marched directly on Londinium,which was being plundered by the Franks and otherforeign mercenaries, who made up the greater part ofthe usurper's forces. Ammianus Marcellinus, who wrote at a laterperiod, states that, in his time, Londinium was calledAugusta, an honourable appellation not unfrequentlyconferred on cities of distinction. In this writer wefind the word written ns it is pronounced at the presentday: —" Egressus, tendensque ad Lnndinium vetusoppidum, quod Augustam posteritas appellavit"(xxvii. 8, comp. xxviii. 3). In the Notitia Digni-tatum we find mention of a " Praepositus Thesau-rorum Augustensium in Britanniis;" and in theChorography of Ravenna the complete form, Londi­nium Augusta, is given. Munumental remains show that Londinium con­tained buildings commensurate in grandeur and ex­tent with its historical claims. The foundations ofthe wall which bordered the river, when laid opena few years since, was almost wholly composed ofmaterials used in buildings which were anterior tothe period when the wall was built ; but it wasimpossible to decide the dates of either. The stonesof which this wall was constructed were portions ofcolumns, friezes, cornices, and also foundation stones.From their magnitude, character, and number, theygave an important and interesting insight into theobscure history of Roman London, in showing thearchitectual changes that had taken place in it.Similar discoveries have been made in various partsof the modern city which more fully developed thedebris of an ancient city of importance : otherarchitectural fragments have been found ; walis ofvast strength and thickness have been noticed; andwithin the last twenty years, at least thirty tessel­lated pavements have been laid opt-n, of which somewere of a very fine kind. (Arrhaeologia, vols.xxvii. xxviii. et seq.) Londinium, unenclosed atfirst, was subsequently in early times walled; butit occupied only part of the site it eventually co­vered (Archaeologia, vol. xxix.). The line of thewall of Roman London is well known, and can still,in parts, be traced. Where it has been excavnted tothe foundation, it appears based upon a bed of clayand flints; the wall itself, composed of rubble anilhard mortar, is faced with small squared stones andbonding tiles; its thickness is about 12 feet;its original height was probably between 20 and30 feet; it was flanked with towers, and had a