OCR Output C. III.] THE HKJH-PUIEST ANANUS. 98 sible of their calamities, and where there is no notion re足maining of any remedy for the miseries that are upon them ?For when you are seized upon, you bear it, and when you aresilent, and when people are murdered, nobody dares so muchas send out a groan openly. O bitter tyranny that we areunder! But why do I complain of the tyrants ? Was it notyou that overlooked those that first of all got together, forthey were then but a few, and by your silence made themgrow to be many, and by conniving at them when they tookarms, in effect armed them against yourselves ? You oughtto have then prevented their first attempts, when they fell areproaching your relations; but by neglecting that care intime, you have encouraged these wretches to plunder men.When houses were pillaged, nobody said a word, which wasthe occasion why they carried off the owners of those houses;and when they were drawn through the midst of the city,nobody came to their assistance. They then proceeded toput those whom you had betrayed into their hands intobonds; I do not say how many, and of what characters thosemen were whom they thus served, but certainly they weresuch as were accused by none, and condemned by none ; andsince nobody succored them when they were put into bonds,the consequence was, that you saw the same persons slain.We have seen this also ; so that still the best of the herd ofbrute animals, as it were, have been still led to be sacrificed,when yet nobody said one word, or moved his right hand fortheir preservation. Will you bear, therefore, will you bearto see your sanctuary trampled on ? and will you lay stepsfor these profane wretches, upon which they may mount tohigher degrees of insolence ? Will not you pluck them downfrom their exaltation ? For even by this time they had pro足ceeded to higher enormities, if they had been able to over足throw any thing greater than the sanctuary. They haveseized upon the strongest place of the whole city; you maycall it the temple if you please, though it be like a citadel orfortress. Now while you have tyranny in so great a degreewalled in, and see your enemies over your heads, to what pur足pose is it to take counsel ? And what have you to support