OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. ■ ,• with Prrrbas which soon ensued, and after-nrit Ibe still larger and more destructive onesivvl »ith tin Carthaginians, prevented the pro­ps* "bits mijrbt hare been anticipated from theseejinMp. The construction nf a second aqueduct,> ten Vets*, in the censorship of Man. CuriusMiioa ud L. Papiriu Cursor, B. c 272, testifies,••mr, that the population of the city most have■mad to iacreue. In the year b. c. 220 we findi aaa C. Flaoiinius constructing the Flaniinianii.« nil u the circus which bore his name.:.•/',«! it; Paul Diac. p. 89.) But it was the«vu>u (f the Romans in Lower Italy, in Sicily,il linen, which first gave them a taste for archi-siil ToeaiSceoce. The first basilica was erected■■<■" ,r.the rear B. c 184, and was soon followeddin, u there will be occasion to relate when r east to speak of the forum. But it was not till11«n liter that the city was first paved by ther> 4 tot own Q. Fulvius Flaccus and A. Post-in Altau. They also paved the public high-n, rdntracted numerous bridges, and made many■r aprtait improvements, both in the city andwrUmrheod. (Liv. xli. 27.) Yet, notwith-ai:t( then additions to the public conveniencei 'twdooT, the private houses of the Romanstr.oal, with few exceptions, to be poor and in-►ewu down to the time of Sulla. The houseBa < Irurios, on the Palatine, seems to have ex-ad « of the earliest examples of elegant do-a» architecture. (Cic. iU Off. i. 39.) This waslai down by Scauras in order to enlarge his own»- The latter seems subsequently to have come'lipoaeanon of Clodius (Ascon. ad Cic. Mil>) ki magnificence may be inferred from thewwun that he gave 14,800,000 sesterces fur'>»«u 130,000/. (Plin. xxxvi. 24. a. 2.) In-L ■ •ttppraach the imperial times, the dwellings"Wading Romans assume a scale of extraordinaryawe, as we see by Pliny'a description of that ofth« orator, who was censor in b. c. 92. Itoo the Palatine, and was remarkable forT&eot lotus-trees, which I'liny had seen ■ .'nth, and which continued to flourish till*■» destroyed in the fire of Nero. It was alsowfaibtd by four columns of Hymettian marble,w* «< that material erected in Rome. Yet even•» orgaued by the house of Q. Catulus, the■en t/ Uarius in the Cixnbrian war, which was■a 11* Palatine ; and still more so by that of™ui> on the Vim mat, a Roman knight, dis-^ far hi. knowledge of civil law. (Plin.') hi Linus Drusua, tribune of the people'M. also possessed an elegant resilience, closec 'CatiUa. After his death it came into the■as of the wealthy M. Crasaus, of whom it"tin by Cicero for about 30,000/. (ad Fam. h «eos to have stood on the N. side of the«, oe the declivity of the hill, not far from"a Tat, so that it commanded a view of the«=d CapKoL It was burnt down in the Clo-■ti, sad a temple of Freedom erected on theafter the return of Cicero was restored1 "ttilt at the public expense. (Cic. udAU. I'm. v. 6.; VelL Pat. ii. 45; Dion Cass.«• IT, mix. 11, 20; App. B. C. ii. 15, 8tc.) s( Lepidus, consul in B. c 77, was also**^* far Us magnificence, having not onlyc* hit even its thresholds, of solid Kumi-•aAh. (Plin. xxxvi. 8.) The luxury of• rraceoo, at Rome teems to have attained its acme in those of Sallnst and Lucullus. Thedistinguishing feature of the former, which lay onthe Quirinal, was its gardens (Horti Sallustiani),which probably occupied the valley between theQuirinal and Pincian, as well as part of the Utterbill. (Becker, llandb. p. 583.) The house of Lu­cullus, the conqueror of Mithridates and Tigranes,was situated on the Pincian, and was also surroundedwith gardens of such remarkable beauty, that theilesiro of possessing them, which they awakened inthe breast of Messalina, caused the death of theirsubsequent owner, P. Valerius Asiaticus. (Tac.Ann. xi. 1; Dion Cass. lx. 31.) From this periodtbey formed one of the most splendid possessions ofthe imperial family. (Plut LucalL 39.) The ambitious designs entertained by the greatleaders of the expiring Republic led them to courtpublic favour by the foundation of public buildingsrather than to lay out their immense wealth inadorning their own residences. The house inhabitedby Pompey in the Carinae was an hereditary one;and though, after his triumph over Mithridates andthe pirates, he rebuilt it on a more splendid scaleand adorned it with the beaks of ships, yet it seemseven then to have keen far from one of the mostsplendid in Rome. (Plut. romp. 40, seq.) On theother hand, he consulted the taste and convenienceof the Romans by building a theatre, a curia, anilseveral temples. In like manner Caesar, at the heightof his power, was content to reside in the ancientRegia; though this indeed was a sort of officialresidence which his office of Poutifcx Maximus com­pelled him to adopt. (Suet Caa. 46.) But hoformed, and partly executed, many magnificent de­signs for the embellishment of the city, which hisshort tenure of power prevented him from accom­plishing. Among these were a theatre of unexampledmagnitude, to be hollowed out of the Tarpeian rock;a temple of Mars, greater than any then existing;the foundation of two large public libraries; theconstruction of a new forum ; besides many otherimportant works, both at Rome and in the provinces.(Snet. Cat*. 26, 44; App. B. C. ii. 102, &C.) The firm and lengthened hold of power enjoyed byAugustus, and the immense resources at his dis­posal, enabled him not only to carry out several ofhis uncle's plans, but also some new ones of his own;so that his reign must be regarded as one of the mostimportant epochs in the history of the city. Thefoundation of new temples and other public buildingsdid not prevent him from repairing and embellishingthe ancient ones; and all bis designs were executedwith so much magnificence that be could boast inhis old age of having found Rome of brick and leftit of marble. (Suet. Aug. 28.) In these under­takings he was assisted by the taste and munificenceof his son-in-law Agrippa, who first founded publicand gratuitous baths at Rome (Dion Cass. Mr. 29):but as we shall have occasion to give aa account ofthese works, as well as iif those executed by Pompeyand Caesar, in the topographical portion of thisarticle, it will not be necessary to enumerate themhere; and we shall proceed to describe the im­portant municipal reforms introduced by Augustus,especially his new division of the city into Vici andRegions. Region* of A uyustiu.—Although Rome bad longoutgrown its limits under Servius Tullius, yet themunicipal divisions of that monarch subsisted tillthe time of Augustus, who made them his model,I so far as the altered circumstances of the city would 3u