OCR Output SATION. SATRICTJM. 923 k. <km, by » doing, we involve ourselves in a gnatnatural difficult7; for the rerolt of one of the Latinrotate* it in itself most improbable, and was cer-UjJt not an en-nt to be passed over with suchia;b! ontice. The territory of Saticulam ("agerVkvIuoi ') is again noticed during the same war:a ocj'jortioo with that of Trebula (Liv. xxiii. 14);lit from the end of the Second Punic War all trace<( it disappears. The name is not fonnd in any oftl* rvorrapbers, and its site is extremely uncertain.Bat the passages in Livy (ix. 21, 22) seem to pointkr tt being situated not far from Plistia, which may"n probably be placed at Prtttia near Sta AgatalaGtH; while the description of the march of Mar-vl:u in a. c 216, shows clearly that it must hare•en striated S. of the Vultamua, and probably in thetUtjt at the back of Mount Tifata, between that»lft and the underfills of Mount Taburnus. Ituj be added that such a position would be a veryx'ual one for the Roman consul to occupy at the-m outbreak of the Samnite wars, from its prox-■ityu Capua. [E. H. B.l MTIOS. [Dassahxtae, Vol. I. p. 756, a ] 6ATXI0KIS(Xar>'ui(it: TWaor T<ula), a smalliwr in the southern part of Troas, having its sources lluant Ida, and flowing in a western directionrtweea Hamaxilus and Larissa, discharges itselfi!" tbe Aegean. It owes its celebrity entirely to* Hiraeric poems. (/£ vi. 34, xiv. 445, xxi. 87;■ah, xai. pp. 605, 606, who states that at a laterBe it was called Ja^ndtir ) [L. S.] SATRAE (Zarasr, Herod, rii. 110—112), atartan people who occupied a portion of tbe rangeUs* I'ang&eua,between the Nestus and the Strymon.T ilntus states that they were the only Thracianii« wbo had always preserved their freedom; a factr >bich be accounts by the nature of their country,-» mountainous region, covered with forests andd» —and by their great bravery. They alone of> Tbxadans did Dot follow in the train of Xerxes,marching towards Greece. The Satrae were [imriniinn of an oracle of Dionysus, si touted:*V the luftiest mountain peaks, and the inter-nVn of which were taken from among the Bessi,—brrumataoee which has suggested tbe conjecturet". the Satrae were merely a clan of the Bessi,—-<mki which is rendered more probable by the factit Herodotus is the only ancient writer wbo men- ■ them; whereas the Bessi are repeatedly spokenWe may infer from Pliny's expression, ** Bes- asi nrafta nocnina " (iv. 11. s. 18), that the Bessin» divided into many distinct clans. Herodotus ■ ilsit to tbe Satrae belonged the principal partti* cold and silver mines which then existed inPsngswas. [J. R.] >A TKICUM (.Elk. Sarpuraror, Satricanus: Ca-1 «V Cru-n) am ancient city of Latinm, situatedfrontier of the V'olscian territory, between the«i lulls and the sea. This position rendered ittar* of importance during the wars between thetaa> and Volscians, and it is frequently men-»i m history *>t that period. It appears to have3 originally a Latin city, as Diodoms mentionsname among; the reputed colonies of Alba, andortroa also includes it in the list of the thirtyei of tbe Latin League. (Diod. vii Fr. 3;■rya. v. 61.) Bat when it first appears in his-r it ■ as a Volscian town, apparently a depen-«7 of Anthrm. It had, however, been wrestedVthat people by the Romans at the same timei CcraJi Polioses, &c ; and hence it is one of the towns tie recovery of which by the Volscisns isascribed to Coriolanua. (Liv. ii. 39.) It seems tohave continued in their power from this time tillafter the Gaulish invasion, as in n. c 386 it wasmade the head-quarters of the Volscians and theirallies on the outbreak of a war with Home, and, aftertheir defeat by Camillus, was assaulted and takenby that general. (Id. vi. 7, 8.) It would appearthat it must on this occasion have for tbe first timereceived a Roman colony, as a few years later (n. c381) it is styled a "colonia populi Romani." Inthat year it was attacked by the Volscians in con­cert with the Praenestines, and, after an obstinatedefence, was carried by assault, and the garrison putto the sword. (Id. vi. 22.) It is subsequentlymentioned on two occasions as affording shelter tothe Volscian armies after their defeat by the Ro­mans (Id. vi. 22, 32); after the last of these (b. c.377) it was burnt by the Latins, who consideredthemselves betrayed by their Volscian allies. (/A.33.) It was not till b. c. 348 that tbe city was re­built by the Antiates, who established a colony there;but two years later it was again taken by the Ro­mans under M. Valerius Cottos. The garrison, tothe number of 4000 men, were made prisoners, andthe town burnt and destroyed, with the exception ofa temple of Mater Matuta. (Id. vii. 27; Fast.Capit.) A few years later it was the scene of avictory of the Romans, under C. Plautius, over theAntiates (id. viii. 1), and seems to have been soonafter restored, and received a fresh colony, as it wascertainly again inhabited at the commencement ofthe Second Samnite War. In B. c. 320, after thedisaster of the Caudine Forks, the Satricans revoltedfrom Rome and declared in faTour of the Samnites;bnt they were soon punished for their defection, theircity being taken by the consul Papirius, and theSamnite garrison put to the sword. (Liv. ix. 12,16; Ores, iii. 15.) From this time it seems to havecontinued subject to Rome; but its name disappearsfrom history, and it probably sunk rapidly into de­cay. It is incidentally mentioned during the SecondPunic War (b. c. 206) on occasion of a prodigywhich occurred in the temple of Mater Matuta,already noticed (Liv. xxviiL 11); bnt it seems cer­tain that it ceased to exist before the close of theRepublic. Cicero indeed alludes incidentally to thename in a manner that shows that the site at leastwas well known in his time (ad Q. Fr. iii. 1. § 4);but Pliny reckons it among the celebrated towns ofLatinm. of which, in his days, no vestige remained(Plin. iii. 5. s. 9); and none of the other geographersallude to its name. The site, like that of most of tbeLatin cities which disappeared at an early period, is amutter of much doubt; but several passages in Livytend to prove that it must have been situated betweenAntium and Velitrae, and its site has been fixedwith much probability by Nibby at the farm or ca-sale, now called Conca, about half way betweenAnto and Yelittri. Tbe site is an isolated hill oftufa, of somewhat quadrangular form, and about2500 feet in circuit, with precipitous sides, and pre­sents portions of tbe ancient walls, constructed inmuch the same style as those of Ardea. of irregularsquare blocks of tufo. The sites of two gates, oneon the £. tbo other to tbe W., may also be distinctlytraced. There is therefore no doubt that the site inquestion is that of an ancient city, and the positionwould well accord with the supposition that it isthat of Satricum. (Nibby, Dmtorni at Roma, vol.iii. p. 64, «.) [£. H. IS.]