OCR Output 423 ROMAN EMPIRE. The pre- standard was followed by one hundred and twentyfeoct ^ thousand men, the regular bands of the empire musthis daugh- have been lost in the naked and disorderly crowdof Africans and Moors, who formed the strength,or rather the numbers, of his host. He rejected with in足dignation the option of the Koran or the tribute; andduring several days, the two armies were fiercely engagedfrom the dawn of light to the hour of noon, when theirfatigue and the excessive heat compelled them to seekshelter and refreshment in their respective camps. Thedaughter of Gregory, a maid of incomparable beauty andspirit, is said to have fought by his side: from her earli足est youth she was trained to mount on horseback, to drawthe bow, and to wield the scimitar: and the richness ofher arms and apparel was conspicuous in the foremostranks of the battle. Her hand, with a hundred thousandpieces of gold, was offered for the head of the Arabiangeneral, and the youths of Africa were excited by theprospect of the glorious prize. At the pressing solicita足tion of his brethren, Abdallah withdrew his person fromthe field; but the Saracens were discouraged by the re足treat of their leader, and the repetition of these equal orunsuccessful conflicts.v. . A noble Arabian, who afterward became the Victory of the adversary of Ali and the father of a caliph, hadsignalized his valour in Egypt; and Zobeir4 wasthe first who planted a scaling-ladder against the walkof Babylon. In the African war he was detached fromthe standard of Abdallah. On the news of the battle,Zobeir, with twelve companions, cut his way through thecamp of the Greeks, and pressed forward, without tastingeither food or repose, to partake of the dangers of hisbrethren. He cast his eyes round the field. Where * See in Ockley (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 3. p. 45.) the death of Zobeir, whichwas honoured with the tears of Ali, against whom he had rebelled. Hit valour atthe siege of Babylon, if indeed it be the same person, is mentioned by Eutychius.( Annal.torn. 2. p. 308.)