OCR Output 58 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. other hand the kingdom of Pontus about this time extendedin the direction of the Caucasus and the sources of theEuphrates, cannot be precisely determined; but it seems tohave embraced the western part of Armenia about Enderesand Diwirigi, or what was called Lesser Armenia, as adependent satrapy, while the Greater Armenia and Sopheneformed distinct and independent kingdoms.Syria and While in the peninsula of Asia Minor Rome thus sub-Egypt, stantially conducted the government and, although variousthings were done without or in opposition to her wishes, yetdetermined on the whole the state of possession, the widetracts on the other hand beyond the Taurus and the UpperEuphrates so far down as the valley of the Nile continuedto be mainly left to themselves. No doubt the principle189. on which the peace of 565 with Syria was based, viz., thatthe Halys and the Taurus should form the eastern boun­dary of the Roman dependencies (ii. 276), was not adheredto by the senate and was in its very nature untenable.The political horizon rests on illusion as well as the phy­sical; the facts, that the state of Syria had the numberof ships of war and war-elephants allowed to it prescribedin the treaty ot peace (ii. 274), and that the Syrian armyevacuated Egypt when half-won at the bidding of theRoman senate (ii. 309), impKed the most complete recogni­tion of hegemony and dependence. Accordingly the dis­putes as to the throne in Syria and in Egypt were referredfor settlement to the Roman government. In the former164. after the death of Antiochus Epiphanes (590) Demetriusafterwards named Soter, the son of Seleucus IV., living asa hostage at Rome, and Antiochus Eupator, a minor, the sonof the last king Antiochus Epiphanes, contended for the181-146. crown; in the latter Ptolemy Philometof (573-608), theelder of the two brothers who had reigned jointly since170. 164. 584, had been driven from the country (590) by the younger117. Ptolemy Euergetes II. or the Fat ( + 637), and had appearedin person at Rome to obtain his restoration. Both affairswere arranged by the senate entirely through diplomaticagency, and substantially in accordance with Roman advan­tage. In Syria Demetrius, who had the better title, was setaside, and Antiochus Eupator was recognized as king; whilethe guardianship of the royal boy was intrusted by thesenate to the Roman senator Gnaeus Octavius, who, aswas to be expected, governed thoroughly in the interest of