OCR Output 64 THE DECLINE AND FALL that they expected the honours of a triumph. In the use of victory,especially after they were no longer controlled by the commissionersof the senate, they exercised the most unbounded despotism. WhenPompey commanded in the east, he rewarded his soldiers andallies, dethroned princes, divided kingdoms, founded colonies, anddistributed the treasures of Mithridates. On his return to Romehe obtained, by a single act of the senate and people, the universalratification of all his proceedings 9. Such was the power over thesoldiers, and over the enemies of Rome, which was either grantedto, or assumed by, the generals of the republic. They were, atthe fame time, the governors, or rather monarchs of the conqueredprovinces, united the civil with the military character, administeredjustice as well as the finances, and exercised both the executiveand legislative power of the state.Lieutenants From what has been already observed in the first chapter of thisperor.Cm work, some notion may be formed of the armies and provincesthus intrusted to the ruling hand of Augustus. But as it was im­possible that he could personally command the legions of so manydistant frontiers, he was indulged by the senate as Pompey hadalready been, in the permission of devolving the execution of hisgreat office on a sufficient number of lieutenants. In rank andauthority these officers seemed not inferior to the ancient proconsuls;but their station was dependent and precarious. They received andheld their commissions, at the will of a superior, to whose auspiciousinfluence the merit of their actions was legally attributed '°. Theywere the representatives of the emperor. The emperor alone wasthe general of the republic, and his jurisdiction, civil as well asmilitary, extended over all the conquests of Rome. It was someSatisfaction, however, to the senate, that he always delegated hispower to the members of their body. The Imperial lieutenantswere of consular or prætorian dignity; the legions were com­manded.