OCR Output 308 [book vm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he left off building and fortifying Ramah,and returned to assist his own people underthe distresses they were in. But Asa madeuse of the materials that were prepared forbuilding that city, for erecting in the sameplace two strong cities; the one of whichwas called Geba, and the other Mizpah. Sothat after this, Baasha had no leisure to makeexpeditions against Asa, for he was preventedby death, and was buried in the city Tirzah.*Elah, his son, took the kingdom; but whenhe had reigned two years, he was treache­rously slain by Zimri, the captain of half hisarmy: for when he was at a feast of Arza,his steward's house, he persuaded some ofthe horsemen, that were under him, to as­sault Elah; and by that means he slew himwhen he was without his armed men, andhis captains. For they were all busied inthe siege of Gibbethon, a city of the Philis­tines. When Zimri, the captain of the army, hadkilled Elah, he took the kingdom himself;and, according to Jehu's prophecy, slew allthe house of Baasha. For it came to passthat Baasha's house utterly perished, on ac­count of his impiety, in the same manner aswe have already described the destruction ofthe house of Jeroboam. But the army thatwas besieging Gibbethon, when they heardwhat had befallen the king, and that whenZimrif had killed him he had gained thekingdom, they bestowed the government onOmri their general, who drew off his armyfrom Gibbethon, and came to Tirzah, wherethe royal palace was, and assaulted the city,and took it by force. But when Zimri sawthat the city had none to defend it, he fled into the inmost part of the palace, and set iton fire, and burnt himself with it;J when hehad reigned only seven days. Hereupon thepeople of Israel were presently divided; andpart of them would have Tibni to be king,and part Omri; but when those who were forOmri's ruling had beaten Tibni, Omri reignedover all the multitude. Now it was in the ||thirtieth year of thereign of Asa, that Omri reigned for twelveyears: six of these years he reigned in thecity Tirzah, and the rest in the city calledSamareon, but named by the Greeks Samaria.But he himself called it Semareon, fromSemer, who sold him the mountain whereonhe built it. Now Omri was no way differentfrom those kings that reigned before him; butonly that he grew worse than they. For theyall sought how they might turn people awayfrom God, by their daily wicked practices.And on that account it was that God madeone of them to be slain by another; and thatno one person of their families should remain.This Omri also died at Samaria, and Ahabhis son succeeded him.§ Now by these events we may learn whatconcern God hath for the affairs of mankind;and how he loves good men, and hates thewicked, and destroys them root and branch.For many of these kings of Israel, they andtheir families, were miserably destroyed, andtaken away one by another, in a short time,for their transgressions. But Asa, who wasking of Jerusalem, and of the two tribes, at­tained, by God's blessing, a long and a feli­citous old age, for his piety and his righteous­ness; and died happily, when he had reignedforty-one years. And when he was dead,** that belonged to the land of Israel, and bordered on thecountry of Damascus, is supposed both by Hudson andSpanheim to be the same with Abel or Abila, whence cameAbilene, Luke iii. 1. This may be that city so denomi­nated from Abel the righteous, there buried, concerningthe shedding of whose blood within the compass of theland of Israel, I understand our Saviour's words, aboutthe fatal war and overthrow of Judea by Titus, and hisRoman army, " That upon you may come all the righteousblood shed upon the land, from the blood of righteousAbel, to the blood of Zacharias, son of Barachias, whomye slew between the temple and the altar. Verily I sayunto you, all these things shall come upon this genera­tion," Matt, xxiii. 35, 36. Luke xi. 51. See Authent.Rec. P. II. page 884, 885. * 1 Kings xvi. 6. t About an. 930. t 1 Kinzs xvi. 18. II The thirty-first, Heb. and Septuagint. § An. 919. ** The words in the text are these,—They laid him onthe bed, which was filled with sweet odours, and diverskinds of spices, prepared by the apothecaries' art: andthey made a great burning for him, 2 Chron. xvi. 26.But then the question is, whether the body itself wasburnt, or only some spices and odoriferous drugs to pre­vent any bad smell that might attend the corpse. TheGreeks and Romans indeed, when they burnt any deadbodies, threw frankincense, myrrh, cassia, and other fra­grant things into the fire, and this in such abundance, thatPliny, (Nat. Hist. cap. 18.) represents it as a piece ofprofaneness, to bestow such heaps of frankincense upon adead body, when they offered it so sparingly to their gods.The Jews, however, (say the maintainers of this side ofthe question,) were accustomed to inter, and not to burntheir dead, though they might possibly lenm from (he