OCR Output Chap XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 429 tresa assumes towards the spies of the army advancing to be­siege it, and as early as 593 dismissed the Greek philosophers igi.along with the rhetoricians from Rome.. In fact the veryfirst debut of philosophy on a great scale in Rome was aformal declaration of war against faith and morals. It wasoccasioned by the occupation of Oropus by the Athenians,a step which they commissioned three of the most esteemedprofessors of philosophy, including Carneades the master ofthe modern sophistical school, to justify before the senate(599). The selection was so far appropriate, as the utterly 153.scandalous transaction defied any justification in commonsense; whereas it was quite in keeping with the circum­stances of the case, when Carneades proved by thesis andcounter-thesis that exactly as many and as cogent reasonsmight be adduced in praise of injustice as in praise ofjustice, and when he showed in due logical form thatwith equal propriety the Athenians might be required tosurrender Oropus and the Romans to confine themselvesonce more to their old straw huts on the Palatine. Theyoung men who were masters of the Greek language wereattracted in crowds by the scandal as well as by the livelyand emphatic delivery of the celebrated man; but on thisoccasion at least Cato could not be found fault with, whenhe not only bluntly enough compared the dialectic argu­ments of the philosophers to the tedious dirges of the wail-ing-women, but also insisted on the senate dismissing aman who understood the art of making right wrong andwrong right, and whose defence was in fact nothing but ashameless and almost insulting confession of injustice. Butsuch dismissals had no great effect, more especially as theRoman youth could not be prevented from hearing philo­sophic discourses at Rhodes and Athens. Men became ac­customed first to tolerate philosophy at least as a necessaryevil, and ere long to seek for the Roman religion, which wasno longer tenable in its simplicity, a support in foreign phi­losophy—a support which no doubt ruined it as faith, but inreturn at any rate allowed the man of culture decorously toretain in some measure the names and forms of the popularcreed. But this support could neither be Euhemerism, northe system of Carneades or of Epicurus. The historicalversion of the myths came far too rudely into collisionwith the popular faith, when it declared the gods directly tobe men; Carneades called even their existence in question,