OCR Output CHAP. LI. 387 to respect his promise, to suspend their fury, and to waitthe determination of- their chiefs. The chiefs retiredinto the church of St. Mary; and after a vehement de­bate, Caled submitted in some measure to the reasonand authority of his colleague; who urged the sanctityof a covenant, the advantage as well as the honour whichthe Moslems would derive from the punctual perform­ance of their word, and the obstinate resistance whichthey must encounter from the distrust and despair of therest of the Syrian cities. It was agreed that the swordshould be sheathed; that the part of Damascus whichhad surrendered to Abu Obeidah, should be immediatelyentitled to the benefit of his capitulation; and that thefinal decision should be referred to the justice and wis­dom of the caliph.p A large majority of the peopleaccepted the terms of toleration and tribute; and Da­mascus is still peopled by twenty thousand Christians.But the valiant Thomas, and the freeborn patriots whohad fought under his banner, embraced the alternativeof poverty and exile. In the adjacent meadow, a nu­merous encampment was formed of priests and laymen,of soldiers and citizens, of women and children: theycollected, with haste and terror, their most preciousmoveables; and abandoned with loud lamentations orsilent anguish their native homes, and the pleasant banksof the Pharphar. The inflexible soul of Caled was nottouched by the spectacle of their distress; he disputedwith the Damascenes the property of a magazine of corn;endeavoured to exclude the garrison from the benefit ofthe treaty; consented, with reluctance, that each of thefugitives should arm himself with a sword, or a lance, ora bow; and sternly declared, that, after a respite of three4ays, they might be pursued and treated as the enemiesof the Moslems. i' It appears from Abulfeda (p. 125.) and Elmacin, (p. :,'„,.) that this distinctionof the two parts of Damascus was long remembered, though not always respected,by the Mahometan sovereigns. See likewise Eutychius. (Anna1, torn. 2. p. 379.380. 383.) 2c 2