OCR Output 10 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX- T'featsof Odoacer, a rival not unworthy of his arms, had al-odoacer. ready occupied the advantageous and well-known post ofAng'ta, ' the river Sontius near the ruins of Aquileia, at the heada'd' 490 of a Powerful host, whose independent kings' or leadersAugust, disdained the duties of subordination and the prudence ofdelays. No sooner had Theodoric granted a short re­pose and refreshment to his wearied cavalry, than heboldly attacked the fortifications of the enemy; the Os­trogoths shewed more ardour to acquire, than the mer­cenaries to defend, the lands of Italy; and the reward ofthe first victory was the possession of the Venetian pro­vince as far as the walls of Verona. In the neighbour­hood of that city, on the steep banks of the rapid Adige,he was opposed by a new army, reinforced in its num­bers, and not impaired in its courage; the contest wasmore obstinate, but the event was still more decisive;Odoacer fled to Ravenna, Theodoric advanced to Milan,and the vanquished troops saluted their conqueror withloud acclamations of respect and fidelity. But theirwant either of constancy or of faith, soon exposed himto the most imminent danger; his vanguard, with se­veral Gothic counts, which had been rashly intrusted toa deserter, was betrayed and destroyed near Faenza byhis double treachery; Odoacer again appeared master ofthe field, and the invader, strongly intrenched in hiscamp of Pavia, was reduced to solicit the aid of a kindrednation, the Visigoths of Gaul. In the course of thehistory, the most voracious appetite for war will be abun­dantly satiated; nor can I much lament that our darkand imperfect materials do not afford a more ample nar­rative of the distress of Italy, and of the fierce conflict,which was finally decided by the abilities, experience,and valour, of the Gothic king. Immediately before thebattle of Verona, he visited the tent of his mother1 and s Tot reges, &c. (Ennodius, p. 1602.) We must recollect how much the royaltitle was multiplied and degraded, and that the mercenaries of Italy were the frag­ments of many tribes and nations. 'See Ennodius, p. 1603, 1604. Since the orator, in the king's presence, couldmention and praise his mother, we may conclude that the magnanimity of Theodoricwas not burt by the vulgar reproaches of concuhine and hastard.