OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 227 assembly of Nushirvan and his nobles. The Indian ori­ginal, and the Persian copy, have long since disappeared:but this venerable monument has been saved by thecuriosity of the Arabian caliphs, revived in the modernPersic, the Turkish, the Syriac, the Hebrew, and theGreek idioms, and transfused through successive ver­sions into the modern languages'of Europe. In theii*present form, the peculiar character, the manners andreligion of the Hindoos, are completely obliterated ; andthe intrinsic merit of the fables of Pilpay is far inferior tothe concise elegance of Phaedrus and the native graces ofLa Fontaine. Fifteen moral and political sentences areillustrated in a series of apologues: but the compositionis intricate, the narrative prolix, and the precept obviousand barren. Yet the Brachman may assume the meritof inventing a pleasing fiction, which adorns the naked*ness of truth, and alleviates, perhaps, to a royal ear, theharshness of instruction. With a similar design, to ad­monish kings that they are strong only in the strengthof their subjects, the same Indians invented the game ofchess, which was likewise introduced into Persia underthe reign of Nushirvan.k The son of Kobad found his kingdom involved in a Peace andwar with the successor of Constantine; and the anxiety ^"Ro­of his domestic situation inclined him to grant the sus- '™q'53S_pension of arms, which Justinian was impatient to pur-539-chase. Chosroes saw the Roman ambassadors at hisfeet. He accepted eleven thousand pounds of gold, asthe price of an endless or indefinite peacesome mutual Greek, translated by Simeon Seth, (A. D. 1100.) from the Arabic, and published bySlarck, at Berlin, in 1697, in 12mo. 2. In Latin, a version from the Greek, SapientiaIndoram, inserted by pere Ponssin at the end of bis edition of Pachymer. (p. 547—620. edit. Roman.) 3. In French, from the Turkish, dedicated, in 1540, to sultanSoliman. Contes et Fables Indiennes de Bidpai et de Lokman, par M. M. Gallandet Cardonne, Paris, 1778, 3 vols, in 12mo. Mr. Wharton (History of English Poetry,toI. 1. p. 129—131.) takes a larger scope. k See the Historia Shahilndi of Dr. Hyde. (Syntagm. Dissertat. loin. 2. p. 61—69.) 'The endless peace (Procopins, Persic, lib. 1. c. 21.) was concluded or ratified inthe sixth year, and third consnlship of Jnstinian. (A. O. 533, between January 1,and April 1. Pagi, torn. 2. p. 550.) Maroellinus, in his Chronicle, uses the style ofthe Medes and Persians.