OCR Output A. D. 15.] 61 OF TACITUS. soldiers, ran wild through the camp, trampling downall that came in his way. This accident spread a ge­neral panic. In the first hurry of surprise, it was ge­nerally believed that the Germans had stormed theintrenchments. The soldiers rushed to the gates,chiefly to that called the Decuman, at the back ofthe camp, remote from, the enemy, and the most like­ly to favour their escape. Csecina knew that it wasa false alarm; he tried to recal the men from theirerror: he commanded, he implored, he laid hold ofnumbers; but finding all without effect, he threwhimself on the ground, and lay stretched at lengthacross the passage. At the sight of their general inthat condition, the men recoiled with horror from theoutrage of trampling on his body. In that interval,the tribunes and centurions convinced the men thattheir fears were without foundation. LXVII. Csecina assembled his men in the part ofthe camp assigned for the eagles. Having commandedsilence, he explained their situation, and the necessi­ty that called upon them to act like men. " They had"nothing to depend upon except their valour; but" their valour must be cool, deliberate, guided by pru-" dence. Let all remain within the lines, till the bar-" barians, in hopes of carrying the works, advance to" the assault. Then will be the time to sally out. ByM one brave effort they might open a passage to the" Rhine. If they fled, other woods, and deeper fens," remain behind; perhaps more savage enemies. By"one glorious victory they were sure of gaining"every advantage; honoured by their country, loved" by their families, and applauded by the whole" army." The bright side of the military life beingthus held forth, he said nothing of the reverse. Hisnext care was to select a body of his bravest soldiers.These he provided with horses, as well from his ownretinue, as from those of the tribunes and centurions,without favour or partiality, distinguishing merit only.The men thus mounted were to make the first im­pression on the en^§y, and the infantry had orders tosupport the rear. LXVIII. The Germans, in the mean time, were no Vol. I.—F