OCR Output 204 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. golden button, which it is the custom to give the king's kins­men; and allowed him Ekron, and its toparchy, for his owninheritance. 5. About this time it was that king Ptolemy, who was call­ed Philometer, led an army, part by the sea, and part by land,and came to Syria, to the assistance of Alexander, who was hisson-in-law; and accordingly all the cities received him willingly,as Alexander had commanded them to do, and conductedhim as far as Ashdod; where they all made loud complaintsabout the temple of Dagon, which was burnt, and accused Jona­than of having laid it waste, and destroyed the country adjoin­ing with fire, and slain a great number of them. Ptolemy heardthese accusations, but said nothing. Jonathan also went to meetPtolemy as far as Joppa, and obtained from him hospitable pre­sents, and those glorious in their kinds, with all the marks ofhonour. And when he had conducted him as far as the rivercalled Eleutherus, he returned again to Jerusalem. 6. But as Ptolemy was at Ptolemais, he was very near to amost unexpected destruction, for a treacherous design was laidfor his life by Alexander, by the means of Ammonius, who washis friend; and as the treachery was very plain, Ptolemy wroteto Alexander, and required of him that he should bring Ammo­nius to condign punishment, informing him what snares had beenlaid for him by Ammonius, and desiring thathe might be accord­ingly punished for it. But when Alexander did not complywith his demands, he perceived that it was he himself who laidthe design, and was very angry at him. Alexander had alsoformerly been in very ill terms with the people of Antioch, forthey had suffered very much by his means; yet did Ammoniusat length undergo the punishment his insolent crimes had deserv­ed, for he was killed in an opprobrious manner, like a woman,while he endeavoured to conceal himself in a feminine habit, aswe have elsewhere related. 7. Hereupon Ptolemy blamed himself for having given hisdaughter in marriage to Alexander, and for the league he hadmade with him to assist him against Demetrius; so he dissolvedhis relation to him, and took his daughter away from him, andimmediately sent to Demetrius, and offered to make a league ofmutual assistance and friendship with him, and agreed with himto give him his daughter in marriage, and to restore him to theprincipality of his fathers. Demetrius was well pleased with thisembassage, and accepted of his assistance, and of the marriageof his daughter. But Ptolemy had still one more hard task todo, and that was to persuade the people of Antioch to receive ''Dervetrihsj' because they'were greatly displeased at him, on