OCR Output 112 THE REVOLUTION AND GA1US GRACCHUS. [Book IV. various occasions apparent in the Gracchan legislation, ifnot to abolish, at any rate to restrict, capital punishmentstill further than had been done before—a tendency, whichto some extent made itself felt even in military jurisdiction.From the very introduction of the republic the magistratehad lost the right of inflicting capital punishment on theburgess without consulting the community, except undermartial law (i. 259, 450). As this right of appeal on thepart of the burgess appears soon after the period of theGracchi available even in the camp, and the right of thegeneral to inflict capital punishments appears restricted toallies and subjects, the source of the change is probably tobe sought in the law of Gaius Gracchus de provocations. Theright of the community to inflict or rather to confirm sen­tence of death wan, moreover, indirectly but essentiallylimited by the fact, that Gracchus withdrew the cognizanceof those public crimes which most frequently gave occasionto capital sentences—poisoning and murder generally—from the burgesses,and intrusted it to permanent judicial com­missions. These could not, like the tribunals of the people,be broken up by the intercession of a tribune, and there notonly lay no appeal from them to the community, but theirsentences were as little subject to be annulled by the commu­nity as those of the old institute of civil jurymen. In theburgess-tribunals it had, especially in strictly political pro­cesses, no doubt long been the rule, that the accused remainedat liberty during his trial, and was allowed by surrenderinghis burgess-rights to withdraw from punishment and to savehis life and freedom as well as his property, so far, of course,as no civil claims were made good against the latter. Butpreliminary arrest and complete execution of the sentenceremained in such cases at least legally possible, and werestill sometimes carried into effect even against nobles; for142. instance, Lucius Hostilius Tubulus, praetor in 612, who wascapitally impeached for a heinous crime, was refused theprivilege of exile, arrested, and executed. On the other handthe judicial commissions, which originated out of the formof civil process, could not from the first touch the liberty orlife of the citizen, but at the most could only pronounce sen­tence of exile ; this, which had hitherto been a modification ofpunishment accorded to one who was found guilty, now be­came for the first time a formal penalty. This involun­tary exile however, like the voluntary, left to the person