OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 39 But by far the larger portion of the city still remained Destructionstanding. We may believe that Scipio desired its preserva- ofCarthage.tion; at least he addressed a special inquiry to.the senate onthe subject. Scipio Nasica once more attempted to gain ahearing for the demands of reason and honour; but invain. The senate ordered the general to level the city ofCarthage and the suburb of Magalia with the ground, and todo the same with all the places which had held by Carthageto the last; and thereafter to pass the plough over the siteof Carthage so as to put an end in legal form to theexistence of the city, and to curse the soil and site for ever,that neither house nor cornfield might ever reappear on thespot. The command was punctually obeyed. The ruinsburned for seventeen days : recently, when the remains of theCarthaginian city wall were excavated, they were found tobe covered with a layer of ashes from four to five feet deep,filled with half-charred pieces of wood, fragments of iron,and projectiles. Where the industrious Phoenicians hadbustled and trafficked for five hundred years, Roman slaveshenceforth pastured the herds of their distant masters.Scipio, however, whom nature had destined for a noblerpart than that of an executioner, gazed with horror on hisown work; and, instead of the joy of victory, the victorhimself was haunted by a presentiment of the retributionthat would inevitably follow such a misdeed. Arrangements had still to be made as to the future Province oforganization of the courttry. The earlier plan of investing Africa,the allies of Rome with the transmarine possessions thatshe acquired was no longer viewed with favour. Micipsaand his brothers retained in substance their former territory,including the districts recently wrested from the Cartha­ginians on the Bagradas and in Emporia; their long-cherished hope of obtaining Carthage as a capital was forever frustrated; the senate presented them instead withthe Carthaginian libraries. The Carthaginian territory aspossessed by the city in its last days—viz., the narrowborder of the African coast lying immediately opposite toSicily, from the river Tusca (AVady Saine, opposite to theisland of Galita) to Thena e (opposite to the island ofKarkenah)—became a Roman province. In the interior,where the constant encroachments of Massinissa had moreand more narrowed the Carthaginian dominions and Vacca,Zama, and Bulla already belonged to Numidia, the Numi-