OCR Output BOOk nr. 365 best MS. authority, gives also the most appropriate sense ; for the jogmanes of the dead were appeased by prayers, but expiated by sacri­fices. Ernesti. Placatos = ut placati essent neve-aversarentur. This little incident, like some of Homer's episodes, is exceedinglytouching, and conveys a more affecting sense of the evils of civil war,than even the author's matchless description of the blood and carnageof the battle-field. The concluding clause (factum esse .... faciunt-que) is cited by Monboddo (On Lang. 2, 4, 12) as an example ofaffected smartness in the turn of expression; but it brings out in avery striking light a singular trait in depraved human nature: theytalk of the wicked deed that has just been done, and still go on todo it. Ch. XXVI.—11. Munire castra. Followed by a mark of inter-J3grogation in the common editions, at the suggestion of Ernesti. Butthis is unnecessary. The sentence begins just like the one above: in-cipere, etc. The only difference between the two is, that here idquoque is thrown in by apposition with munire to indicate deliberation.Wr. makes munire depend on si juberent implied in quid juberentabove. Quid juberent is the subj. of the indirect question. 15. Ex temeritate. Al. et ex, etc. But cf. note, 1, 3: esse ul-tionem.—Caedes .... sanguis. Synonyma hoc loco poetarum morejunguntur. Rup. Ch. XXVII.—19. I,ibrabantur. Cf. note, 2, 22: librato. %%. Bedriacensi viae. The way from Cremona to Bedriacum.So Brixianam portam = the gate of Cremona opening towards Brixia,now Brescia, south of the Fo. 24. Impetus. Their own ardor (cf. note, 1, 57); hence ourword impetuosity. 25. Iagones. Grub-hoes. Cf. Smith's Diet, sub voce. 36. Dolabras. Cf. note, 20, supra. Observe the asyndeton.—Falces scalasque. Hooks and ladders. The latter for scaling thowalls, and the former for tearing down the upper breastwork. Cf. Man.P. 3, 289, and Smith's Diet, sub voce. See also the same under tes-tudo. 29. Disjectam fluitantemque. Both these words denote a sep­aration of the shields that formed the testudo ; but the former a lateralseverance, the latter an opening produced by unequal elevation. 31. Multa cum strage. Cf. note, 2, 37: magna ex parte. Thisclause is placed in some MSS. at the beginning of the next section. Ch. XXVIII.—32. Incesserat... nl... monstrasseut. Thereis an ellipsis before ni, which maybe supplied thus: hesitation hadbegun to prevail (and would have prevailed still further), had not, etcBut ni is more readily translated in such passages but: The soldier*began to hesitate, but, etc. Cf. note, A. 4: hausisse, ni. This usage■bounds in T., but is rarely found in Cic. Cf. Z. 519, b ; Essay, p. 15. 31*