OCR Output 'CHAP. 55. ROMAN HISTORY. 95 poppies with his cane. The messenger being oat of allpatience with begging and waiting for an answer, return­ed to Gabii, no wiser than when he left it. However, ofwhat he said himself, and what he had occasion to ob­serve, he makes a faithful relation; adding moreover,that Tarquin, whether from passion, resentment, or pride,never once deigned to open his mouth. The moment Sextus had unriddled these dark hints,he puts to death the most eminent men of the city, someby accusing them to the people, others became properobjects of his revenge, by envying his greatness. Manyof them were executed publicly; others, against whomthe indictment could not be so clearly proved, were madeaway with privately. Some were permitted to maketheir escape, and some were banished; but in whatevermanner they were disposed of, whether dead or alive, ifthey were out of the way, their estates were confiscatedand divided among the people. The sweets of plunder,and the private emolument arising from these largesses,extinguished, in the people, all sense of feeling for thepublic calamities, till destitute of counsel, and void of allresources, the state of Gabii became an easy prey toTarquin, without striking a stroke. CHAP. LV. Tarquin turns his attention to the affairs of the city. JL ARQUIN having thus got possessionof Gabii, madea peace with the ./Equi, and renewed the treaty with theEtrurians. He then turned his attention to the affairsof the city, particularly to the building a temple to Ju­piter, on the Tarpeian mount, which he might leave asa monument of his name and reign, since of (he two Tar-quins who had reigned at Rome, the first had vowedthis temple, and the last had finished it. And that thearea of this temple might be clear of the worship ofother gods, and totally appropriated to Jupiter, he re­solved to deprive several small temples and chapels oftheir consecrated honours, which had been vowed byTatios in the heat of the battle he had fought- with Ro­mulus, and afterwards hallowed and dedicated.