OCR Output £00 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. things, he also came to the citadel of Gamala ; and when he wascome, the multitude cried aloud, and desired him to resume thegovernment, and to make an expedition against Varus, and theSyrians of Cesarea; for it was reported that they had slain theking. But Philip restrained their zeal, and put them in mindof the benefits the king-had bestowed upon them ; and told themhow powerful the Romans were, and said it was not for theiradvantage to make war with them ; and at length he prevailedwith them. But now, whtn the king was acquainted with Va-rus's design, which was to cut off the Jews of Cesarea, beingmany ten thousands, with their wives and children, and all inone day, he called to him Equiculus Modius, and sent him tobe Varus's successor, as we have elsewhere related. But stillPhilip kept possession of the citadel of Gamala, and of thecountry adjoining to it, which thereby continued in their alle­giance to the Romans. • 12. Now, as soon as I was come into Galilee, and had learnedthis state of things by the information of such as told me of them,I wrote to the sanhedrim at Jerusalem about them, and requiredtheir direction what 1 should do. Their direction was, that Ishould continue there, and that, if my fellow-legates were will­ing, I should join with them in the care of Galilee. But thosemy fellow-legates, having gotten great riches from those titheswhich as priests were then" dues, and were given to rhem, deter­mined to return to their own country. Yet when 1 desired themto stay so long, that we might first settle the public affairs, theycomplied with me. So I removed, together with them, from thecity of Sepphoris, and came to a certain village called Bethmaus,four furlongs distant from Tiberias ; and thence I sent messen­gers to the senate of Tiberias, and desired that the principal menof the city would come to me : and when they were come, Justushimself being also with them, I told them, that I was sent to themby the people of Jerusalem as a legate, together with these otherpriests, in order to persuade them to demolish that house whichHerod the tetrarch had built there, and which had the figures ofliving creatures in it, although our laws have forbidden us tomake any such figures; and I desired, that they would give usleave so to do immediately. But for a good while Capellus and theprincipal men belonging to the city would not give us leave, butwere at length entirely overcome by us, and were induced to beof our opinion. So Jesus the son of Sapphias, one of those whomwe have already mentioned as the leader of a seditious tumult ofmariners and poor people, prevented us, and (took with him cer­tain Galileans, and set the entire palace on fire, and thought heshould get a great deal of money thereby, because he saw someef the roofs gilt with gold. They also plundered a great deal of the