OCR Output 234 NOTES. The former would of course admit of rhetorical flourishes, and the lalfer ofplayful sallies and sarcastic cuts, which would not become the dignity of history. In his Annals, the author has pruned off still more of the redundancesof his youthful genius, though even there he shows that exuberance was natu­ral to him, that he was endowed by nature with the rhetorical and the poeticalelement in little less profusion than the historical and the philosophical. Itwould be instructive and interesting to trace the progressive development ofthis master-mind, and observe the striking changes, and yet the unequivocalsigns of identity, which mark the history of his intellectual life from the com­mencement of the Dialogue on Oratory to the conclusion of the Annals of theRoman empire. It would be difficult to find a more remarkable example ofdiversity in unity. The Histories are on the whole perhaps the most perfect production of theauthor's genius, as they are also the most finished work of art—the work onwhich he laid out his strength, and on which he relied to transmit his nameto posterity. They were written when he was nearer fifty than forty, in thevery prime of life, free alike from the foibles of youth and the feebleness ofage, possessing at once imagination in undecayed vigor and judgment inmatured perfection. His resources had been accumulating, as the result oflong observation and reflection. His feelings were chastened and yet deepen­ed by suffering, and his eloquence was matured by study and practice. Hehad spoken at the bar and ruled in the senate. He had served, perhaps com­manded in the Roman armies. Whether he writes of civil or military affairs,he seems alike at home, alike familiar with the arts of war and those of peace.At the same time, he was master of all the lore of books, and all the wisdomof the schools. The principles of philosophy were almost the atmosphere hebreathed. Like Cicero, he combined the high-toned morals of the Stoics withthe more liberal doctrines of the Academy, though he held to the Stoical doc­trine of fate and, sometimes, particularly in his Annals, gives utterance toreligious opinions bordering on those of the Skeptics and Epicureans (Ann.3,18; 6, 22; 16, 33). The Poets, as well as the Philosophers, were his masters.Virgil especially charmed his ear and touched his heart. The image of theMantuan Bard is stamped on every page, particularly of the historian's earlierwritings.* Nor are there wanting reflections of the style and sense and spiritof Horace. He had also caught the living images and winged words of him," who wandered erst from Scio's rocky isle." The constitution, and laws ofhis country were familiar to him as household words. The civil and politicalhistory of Greece and Rome had been his study and his meditation. He wasa republican by choice, but by necessity, as he thought, an imperialist (His.1,1.16. et passim). He admired the former state of things at Rome, but hesubmitted to the present. He loved liberty, but he loved order more, andhoped to find it only under the throne of the Caesars. He has canonized manya martyr of freedom and damned many a tyrant to eternal infamy. But heabhorred ultraism, censured would-be martyrs and bade the admirers of theimpracticable learn from the example of such men as Agricola, that there * Cf. Essay on the style of Tacitus, p. 24. See also Notes passim, particularlylose on Agricola and Germania, which often point to examples of Virgiliaa