OCR Output 248 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII. than the rancour they bore the Lacedæmonians, andthe gratification of private spleen, though Doric, yetfollowed the Ionic Athenians against their Doric kin­dred. But the Mantineans and the reft of the Arca­dians, who are mercenaries, and eternally habituated toact against any foe pointed out to them, were now so farinfluenced by gain as to regard those Arcadians as theirenemies who came over on this occasion in company withthe Corinthians. The Cretans also and Ætolians werethere, allured by an advantageous pay; and thus ithappened that the Cretans, who, in concert with theRhodians, had founded Gela, readily took part, forthe fake of gain, not with but against a colony whichthemselves had planted. There was also a body of A-carnanian auxiliaries, partly induced to join by the paythey received, but principally by their personal regardfor Demosthenes and their attachment to the Athenians.And thus have we run them over to the utmost bounda­ry of the Ionian gulf. Of the Italic nations, the Thu-rians, and those Metapontians whom intestine feudshad reduced to the necessity of fighting for subsist­ence, joined their arms; and, of the Sicilian, the Nax- 1ians and Cataneans of barbarian, the Egesteans, whowere the first movers of this grand contention, and themajor part of the Siculi* and, out of Sicily, some of theTyrrhenes, from enmity to the Syracusans, and themercenary Iapygians. So many nations were assembledtogether at present under command of the Athenians. The auxiliaries, on the side of the Syracusans, werethe Camarineans, who border close upon them, and theGeloans, who are situated next the Camarineans. Toproceed regularly: As the Agrigentines were neutral,the Selinuntians next occur, who are seated beyond theAgrigentines, since they inhabit that tract of the islandwhich faceth Afric. Then the Himereans, the onlyGrecian people who inhabit that part of the iflandwhich lies off the Tyrrhene sea, and were the only bodywhich came from thence to the aid of Syracuse. The several