OCR Output <l6 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLy. quaint expression of" Evagrius) a perfect aristocracy ofreason and virtue. Some suspicion will degrade the tes­timony of a subject, though he protests that his secretpraise should never reach the ears of his sovereign,'1 andsome failings seem to place the character of Maurice be­low the purer merit of his predecessor. His cold andreserved demeanor might be imputed to arrogance; hisjustice was not always exempt from cruelty, nor his cle­mency from weakness; and his rigid economy too oftenexposed him to the reproach of avarice. But the rationalwishes of an absolute monarch must tend to the happi­ness of his people; Maurice was endowed with senseand courage to promote that happiness, and his adminis­tration was directed by the principles and example ofTiberius. The pusillanimity ofthe Greeks had introduc­ed so complete a separation between the offices of kingand of general, that a private soldier who had deservedand obtained the purple, seldom or never appeared at thehead of his armies. Yet the emperor Maurice enjoyedthe glory of restoring the Persian monarch to his throne:his lieutenants waged a doubtful war against the Avars ofthe Danube, and he cast an eye of pity, of ineffectualpity, on the abject and distressful state of his Italian pro­vinces. Distress of From Italy the emperors were incessantly tormented3tal>- by tales of misery and demands of succour, which extort­ed the humiliating confession of their own weakness.The expiring dignity of Rome was only marked by thefreedom and energy of her complaints. "If you are in­capable (she said) of delivering us from the swords of theLombards, save us at least from the calamity of famine."Tiberius forgave the reproach, and relieved the distress:a supply of corn was transported from Egypt to the Ti­ber; and the Roman people, invoking the name, not of h Aurcjtgar&jg ovrftiC yEvo^Evo? r«v [J.ZV oyKm^tnuav rouv waBm Ex r*J; aXEiet; E^EinXarW-i■^i>Xnc afiff-roxgetrEtav $6 ev to*; Eetyrou Xcyia-fAQi; naraa-rwapm;, Kvagrius composedhi* history In the twelfth year of Maurice; and be had been so wisely indiscreet, thatttie emperor knew and rewarded his favourable.opinion. (lib. 6. c. 24.)