OCR Output 352 ROMAN EMPIRE. Success of The talents of Mahomet are entitled to our ap-Mahomet. plause, but his success has perhaps1 too stronglyattracted our admiration. Are we surprised that a mul­titude of proselytes should embrace the doctrine and thepassions of an eloquent fanatic? In the heresies of thechurch, the same seduction has been tried and repeatedfrom the time of the apostles to that of the reformers.Does it seem incredible that a private citizen should graspthe sword and the sceptre, subdue his native country,and erect a monarchy by his victorious arms? In themoving picture of the dynasties of the east, a hundredfortunate usurpers have arisen from a baser origin, sur­mounted more formidable obstacles, and filled a largerscope of empire and conquest. Mahomet was alike in­structed to preach and to fight, and the union of theseopposite qualities, while it enhanced his merit, contri­buted to his success: the operation of force and persua­sion, of enthusiasm and fear, continually acted oneach other, till every barrier yielded to their irresistiblepower. His voice invited the Arabs to freedom andvictory, to arms and rapine, to the indulgence of theirdarling passions in this world and the other; the re­straints which he imposed were requisite to establishthe credit of the prophet, and to exercise the obedi­ence of the people; and the only objection to his suc­cess, was his rational creed of the unity and perfec- Perma ^OnS o^ ^OC^' ^ *S nOt ^ ProPagation ^ut ^e nencyof permanency of his religion that deserves ourgion?' wonder: the same pure and perfect impressionwhich he engraved at Mecca and Medina, is preserved,after the revolutions of twelve centuries, by the Indian,the African, and the Turkish proselytes of the Koran. Ifthe Christian apostles, St. Peter or St. Paul, could re­turn to the Vatican, they might possibly inquire thename of the deity who is worshipped with such myste­ acribed by Demetrius Cantemir (Hist, of the Othman Empire, p. 94.) and Niebuhr.(Description de 1'Arabie, p. 9-16. 317, &c.) It » much to be lamented, that the.Danish traveller was unable to purchase the chronicles of Arabia.