OCR Output viii AUTHOR'S PREFACE. I formed it into a distinct treatise, with a beginning of its own, and its own conclusion. Butin process of time, as usually happens to such as undertake great things, I grew weary andwent on slowly; it being a large subject, and a difficult thing to translate our history into aforeign, and to us, unaccustomed language. However, there were some persons who desiredto know our history, and exhorted me to go on with it, and above all the rest Epaphroditus,*a man who is a lover of all kinds of learning, but is principally delighted with the knowledgeof history, and this on account of his having been himself concerned in great affairs, andmany turns of fortune, and having shewn a wonderful vigour of an excellent nature, and animmoveably virtuous resolution in them all. I yielded to this man's persuasions, who alwaysexcites such as have abilities in what is useful and acceptable, to join their endeavours withhis. I was also ashamed to permit any indolence of disposition to have a greater influenceupon me than the delight of taking pains in such studies as were very useful. I thereforestirred up myself, and went on with my work more cheerfully. Besides the foregoingmotives, I had others, which I greatly reflected on; and these were, that our forefatherswere willing to communicate such things to others; and that some of the Greeks took con­siderable pains to learn the affairs of our nation. I found, therefore, that the second of the Ptolemies was a king who was extraordinarilydiligent in what concerned learning and the collection of books; that he was also peculiarlyambitious to procure a translation of our law, and of the constitution of our governmenttherein contained, into the Greek tongue. Now Eleazar the high-priest, one not inferior toany other of that dignity among us, did not envy the king the participation of that ad­vantage, which otherwise he would certainly have denied him; but that he knew the customof our nation was, to hinder nothing of what we esteemed ourselves from being communi­cated to others. Accordingly, I thought it became me, both to imitate the generosity ofour high-priest, and to suppose there might even now be many lovers of learning like theking. For he did not obtain all our writings at that time; but those who were sent toAlexandria as interpreters, gave him only the books of the law. While there were a vastnumber of other matters in our sacred books. They indeed containt the history of fivethousand years. In which time happened many strange accidents, many chances of war,and great actions of the commanders, and mutations of the form of our government. Uponthe whole, a man that will peruse this history may principally learn from it, that all eventssucceed well, even to an incredible degree, and the reward of felicity is proposed by God;but then it is to those that follow his will, and do not venture to break his excellent laws;and that so far as men any way apostatize from the accurate observation of them,J whatwas practicable before, becomes impracticable; and whatsoever they set about as a goodthing, is converted into an incurable calamity. And now I exhort all those that peruse * Tins Epaphroditus was certainly alive in the third year of Trajan, A. D. 100. Who he was we do not know.Tor as to Epaphroditus, the freed man of Nero, Tacit. Annal. XV. 55, Nero's and afterwards Domitian's secretary,who was put to death by Domitian in the fourteenth or fifteenth year of his reign, he could not be alive in the thirdof Trajan. t That Josephus's chronology agreed neither with the Masorete Hebrew, nor with the present Septuagint but almostalways with that of the Samaritan Pentateuch, and contained not less than 5000 years. See Essays on the Old Testa­ment, page 195, 203, which is here recommended by Fabricius to the consideration of the reader, ap. Havercamp,page 59. J Josephus here plainly alludes to the famous Greek proverb, ©sS wf«fov1@' zsav cw-opov vsi^ov. If God be withus, every thing that is impossible, becomes possible.