OCR Output AN. 24.] 563 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him great fame among foreigners. And itlooked, as if these calamities, that afflicted hisland to a degree plainly incredible, came inorder to raise his glory, and to be to his greatadvantage. For the greatness of his liberalityin these distresses, which he now demonstra­ted beyond all expectation, did so change thedisposition of the multitude towards him, thatthey were ready to suppose he had been fromthe beginning not such a one as they hadfound him to be by experience; but such aone as the care he had taken of them in sup­plying their necessities proved him now to be.About this time he sent five hundred chosenmen out of his body guards, as auxiliaries toCaesar: whom *Elius Gallus led to the RedSea: and who were of great service to himthere. When therefore his affairs were thusimproved, and again were in a flourishingcondition, he built himself a palace in theupper city; raising the rooms to a very greatheight, and adorning them with the mostcostly furniture of gold, and marble seats, andbeds; and these were so large, that theycould contain many companies of men. Theseapartments were also of different sizes, andhad particular names given them. For oneapartment was called Caesar's, another Agrip-pa's, &c. He also fell in love again, and mar­ried another wife: not suffering his reason tohinder him from living as he pleased. Theoccasion of this marriage was as follows.There was one Simon, a citizen of Jerusalem,the son of Boethus, a citizen of Alexandria,and a priest of great note there. This manhad a daughter, who was esteemed the mostbeautiful woman of that time. And when the Eeople of Jerusalem began to speak much iner commendation, it happened that Herodwas much affected with what was said of her;and when he saw the damsel he was smittenwith her beauty. Yet did he entirely rejectthe thoughts of using his authority to abuseher; as believing that by so doing he shouldbe stigmatized for violence and tyranny. Sohe thought it best to take the damsel to wife.And while Simon was of a dignity too inferiorto be allied to him; but still too considerableto be despised; he governed his inclinationsafter the most prudent manner, by augmenting * This Elius Gallus seems to be no other than thatElius Largus, whom Dio speaks of, as conducting an ex­pedition that was about this time made into Arabia Felix, voL. I. NOS. 47 & 48. the dignity of the family, and making themmore honourable. Accordingly he deprivedJesus, the son of Phabet, of the high-priest­hood; and conferred that dignity on Simon:and so joined in affinity with him by marryinghis daughter. When this wedding was over, Herod builtanother citadel, in that place where he hadconquered the Jews, when he was driven outof his government, and Antigonus enjoyed it.This citadel is distant from Jerusalem aboutsixty furlongs. It was strong by nature, andfit for such a building. It is a sort of a mo­derate hill, raised to a farther height by thehand of man; till it was of the shape of a wo­man's breast. It is encompassed with circu­lar towers; and has a straight ascent to it;which is composed of two hundred steps ofpolished stones. Within it are royal and veryrich apartments, of a structure that providedboth for security and for beauty. About thebottom there are habitations of such a struc­ture as are well worth seeing; both on otheraccounts, and also on account of the waterwhich is brought thither from a great wayoff. and at vast expense. For the place itselfis destitute of water. The plain that is aboutthis citadel- is full of edifices, not inferior toany city in largeness: and having the hillabove it in the nature of a castle. And now, when all Herod's designs hadsucceeded according to his hopes, he had notthe least suspicion that any troubles couldarise in his kingdom: because he kept hispeople obedient, as well by the fear theystood in of him, (for he was implacable in theinfliction of his punishments,) as by the provi­dent care he had shewn towards them afterthe most magnanimous manner, when theywere under their distresses. But still he tookcare to have external security for his govern­ment, as a fortress against his subjects. Forthe orations he made to the cities were veryfine, and full of kindness: and he cultivated agood understanding with their governors, andbestowed presents on every one of them; in­ducing them thereby to be more friendly tohim, and using his magnificent disposition soas his kingdom might be the better securedto him: and this till all his affairs were every LIII. according to Petavius: who is here cited by Span-heiro. See a full account of this expedition in Prideaux,at the years 24 and 23. 4S