OCR Output CHAP. LII. 517 hoped to deprecate the fate of Araorium: the inexorablecaliph rejected with contempt his prayers and promises;and detained the Roman ambassadors to be the witnessesof his great revenge. They had nearly been the wit­nesses of his shame. The vigorous assaults of fifty-fivedays were encountered by a faithful governor, a veterangarrison, and a desperate people; and the Saracensmust have raised the siege if a domestic traitor had notpointed to the weakest part of the wall, a place whichwas decorated with the statues of a lion and a bull.The vow of Motassem was accomplished with unre­lenting rigour: tired, rather than satiated, with destruc­tion, he returned to his new palace of Samara, in theneighbourhood of Bagdad, while the unfortunate Theo-philus implored the tardy and doubtful aid of his westernrival the emperor of the Franks. Yet in the siege ofAmorium above seventy thousand Moslems had perished:their loss had been revenged by the slaughter of thirtythousand Christians, and the sufferings of an equal num­ber of captives, who were treated as the most atrociouscriminals. Mutual necessity could sometimes extort theexchange or ransom of prisoners ;b but in the nationaland religious conflict of the two empires, peace waswithout confidence, and war without mercy. Quarter wasseldom given in the field; those who escaped the edgeof the sword, were condemned to hopeless servitude, orexquisite torture; and a Catholic emperor relates, withvisible satisfaction, the execution of the Saracens ofCrete, who were flayed alive, or plunged into caldrons * In the east he was styled Aurv^n;; (Continuator Theophan. lib. 3. p. 84.) butsuch was the ignorance of the west, that his ambassadors, in public discourse,might boldly narrate, de victoriis, quas adversns exteras bcllando gentes coelitusfuerat assecutus. (Annalist. Bertinian. apud Pagi, torn. 3. p. 720.) lj Abu'pharagius (Dynast, p. 167,163.) relates one of these singular transactionson the bridge of the river Lamas in Cilicia, the limit of the two empires, and oneday's journey westward of Tarsus. ( D'Anville, Geographic Ancienne, torn. 2. p. 91.)Four thousand four hundred and sixty Moslems, eighthundred women and children,one hundred confederates, were exchanged for an equal number of Greeks. Theypassed each other in the middle of the bridge, and when they reached their respec­tive friends, they shouted Allah Ackar, and Kyrie Eltison. Many of the prisoners ofAmorium were probably among them, but in the same year (A. H. 231.) the mostllustrious of the-i, the forty-two martyrs, were beheaded by the caliph's order.