OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tion of Anastasi, the secret, though lawful, wife of theemperor Tiberius. Whatever could alleviate the disap­pointment of Sophia, imperial honours, a stately palace,a numerous household, was liberally bestowed by thepiety of her adopted son; on solemn occasions he at­tended and consulted the widow of his benefactor: buther ambition disdained the vain semblance of royalty, andthe respectful appellation of mother served to exasperate,rather than appease, the rage of an injured woman.While she accepted, and repaid with a courtly smile, thefair expressions of regard and confidence, a secret alli­ance was concluded between the dowager empress andher ancient enemies; and Justinian, the son of Germa-nus, was employed as the instrument of her revenge.The pride of the reigning house supported, with reluct­ance, the dominion of a stranger: the youth was deserv­edly popular; his name, after the death of Justin, hadbeen mentioned by a tumultuous faction; and his ownsubmissive offer of his head, with a treasure of sixtythousand pounds, might be interpreted as an evidence ofguilt, or at least of fear. Justinian received a free par­don, and the command of the eastern army. The Persianmonarch fled before his arms; and the acclamationswhich accompanied his triumph declared him worthy ofthe purple. His artful patroness had chosen the month ofthe vintage, while the emperor, in a rural solitude, waspermitted to enjoy the pleasures of a subject. On the firstintelligence of her designs he returned to Constantino­ple, and the conspiracy was suppressed by his presenceand firmness. From the pomp and honours which shehad abused, Sophia was reduced to a modest allowance:Tiberius dismissed her train, intercepted her correspon­dence, and committed to a faithful guard the custody ofher person. But the services of Justinian were not con­sidered by that excellent prince as an aggravation of hisoffences; after a mild reproof, his treason and ingratitude\yere forgiven; and it was commonly believed, that the