OCR Output 632 1 PISAK. placed a little oast of Olympia, and its acropolisprobably occupied a height on the western side ofthe rivulet of Minikn, near its junction with theAlpbeius. Strabo {I.e.) says that it lay betweentlx; mountains Olympus and Ossa, which can onlyhave been heights on different sides of the river.Sec its position marked in the map in Vol. II. p. 477.(Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 21 1, Pelnponntsiaca,p. 6; Mure, Tow in Greece, vol. ii. j>. 283; (Junius,PtlitjKrmw.^ox, vol. ii. )>. 51.) PISAE {riiVat, Strab. Pol.; Uiffffai, PtoL; Tiitraa,Ljcophr.: Kth. Piaanus: Pita), an important city ofKtruria, situated on the N. bank of the river Arena, aIV; vv miles from its mouth. All an thorn agree in repre­senting it as a very ancient city, hut the accountsof its early history arc very contused and uncertain.The identity of its name with that of the city ofKlis naturally led to the supposition that the onewas derived from the other; and hence the founda­tion of the Italian Pisae was ascribed by someauthors to Peiops himself (PIin. iii. 5. s. 8), whileothers assigned it to a body of settlers from thePeloponneaian Pisa who had accompanied Nestor toTroy, and on their return wandered to this part ofItaly. (Strab. v. p. 222; Serv. ad Am. x. 179.)E|ieius, the reputed founder of Metapontuin, was,according to some writers, that of Pisae also. (Serv. c.) The Elean, or Alphean, origin of the city isgenerally adopted by the Roman poets. (Virg. Aen.x. 179; Claudian, B. Gild. 483; Rutil. Um. i. 565.)Cata, however, followed a different tradition, andrepresented the city as founded by the Etruscanstinder Tarchon, though the site was previously pos­sessed by a people called the Teutanes, who spokea Greek dialect. (Cato, np. Serv, I. c.) Virgil alsocalls it distinctly an Etruscan city, though he de­rives its more remote origin from Klis; and the tra­dition reported by Cato seems to prove at least thatit was one of the cities of which the Etruscansclaimed to be the founders, and which must there-lore have been at one period a genuine Etruscancity. On the other hand, Dionysius mentions itamong 1 he cities founded or occupied by the IVIasgiin conjunction with the Aborigines (Dionys. i. 20);and there seems to be some reason to regard it asone of the early Pelasgic settlements on the coast ofKtruria, which fell at a later period under the powerof the Etruscans, We know almost nothing of Pisae as an Etruscancity, nor are there any remains of this period of itshistory. Hut Strabo still found vestiges of its pastgreatness, and the tradition of its foundation byTarchon seems to point to it as one of the principalcities of Kiruria. Its inhabitants were trained toarms by frequent contests with their neighbours theI.igurians. while they appear to have been one ofthe principal maritime powers among the Etruscans,and, like most of their countrymen, combined thepursuits of commerce and piracy. (Strab. v. p. 22.1.)We have no account of the period at winch it be­came a dependency of Rome; but the first historicalmention of its name is in b. c. 225, when the consulC. Atilius landed there with two legions from Sar­dinia, with which ho shortly after attacked anddefeated the Gaulish army near Telamon. (Pol. h.27.) It is clear therefi re that Pisae was at thistime already in alliance with Home, and probablyon the same footing as the other dependent allies ofthe republic. Its port seems to have been muchfrequented, and became a favourite point of departurefor the Roman fleets and armies whose destination was Gaul, Spain, orthence that the consat the outbreak of t21S). and thither aUMthat Hannibal bad airiii. 43,56; Liv. xxi.3!of the Romans with tthe importance of Pisatown of the Roman poquarters of the geoenwar. (Liv. xxxiii. 4was not, however, exerrincident to such a pisuddenly attacked ar40,000 Lignrians, anthe arrival of the corand on several otherwaste its territory. 1themselves invited thein their territory, wfcout, the colonists obta43.) From this tim<its colonial condition bother " coloniae Lathuiby virtue of the Lex ,but it seems to haveAugustus, as we find ia celebrated inscriptiohonours paid by the mto the deceased grantL. Caesar. (OrelL Ittermed "Colonia Obsalso gives it the titleand there seems no drone of the most fiouritl.speaks of it as carryitimber and marble frotiwhich were sent to Krbuilding materials. Itile, and produced thsiligo, as well as excel 1PHn. xiv. 3. s. 4, xvnlcount of the fortunes «.period of the Roman ewars of Names it isimportance (Again. Bages rose rapidly to txcommercial cities of It; There is no doubt tthe same site with tlcauses have producedlocality, that it wouldsite as described by tof the modern and aiThat author (as well adescribes the ancienttluence of the riversand distant only 20 st(Strab. v. p. 222; Plii565—5700 At theIi miles from the seaflow into the Amo at jto the sea, the two rfvof 5 or 6 miles in widtmutation of alluvial *the sand heaped up b;mains of the Etruscathat all such, if they ssiderable depth by thetiges of Roman antiqimean traces of baths, t