OCR Output 546 ftOTES ON THE the nature of the phantasy. In order to be convinced of which,it is neceflary to observe, that the rational soul, or the true man,consists of intellect, cogitation (Jiawia) and opinion; but thefictitious man, or the irrational foul, commences from the phanta足sy, under which desire and anger subsist. Hence the basis ofthe rational life is opinion, but the summit of the irrational life isthe phantasy. But the phantasy, as Jamblichus beautifully ob足serves, glows upon, as it were, and fashions all the powers ofthe foul; exciting in opinion the illuminations from the fenses,and fixing in that life which is extended with body the impres足sions which descend from intellect. Hence, says Proclus, it foldsitself about the indivisibility of true intellect, conforms itself toall formless species, and becomes perfectly every thing, fromwhich cogitation and our indivisible reason consist. This being the cafe, as the phantasy is all things passivelywhich intellect is impassively (on which account Aristotle callsthe phantasy passive intellect), hence the head of the Sphinx ishuman, but at the fame time of the feminine sex; this sexbeing the image from its passivity of irrational life. By theSphinx having the body of a dog, the discriminating power ofthe phantasy is implied: for a dog, as we have stiewn before, isthe image of the discriminating power of the soul (to Siaxpilixoim ^vyjr.f). By her having the tail of a dragon, and the clawsof a lion, the communication of the phantasy with desire andanger is signified. And her wings are images of the elevatingpowers which the phantasy naturally possesses; for it is re-ele足vated, in conjunction with the returning foul, to the region everyway resplendent with light. But the riddles of the Sphinx areimages of the obscure and intricate nature of the phantasy. Hetherefore, who is unable to solve the riddles of the Sphinx,i. e. who cannot comprehend the dark and perplexed nature ofthe phantasy, will be drawn into her embraces and torn in pieces;i. e. the phantasy in such a one will subject to its power therational Use! cause its indivisible energies to become divisible, 8 and