OCR Output 188 [flOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him, for that from him they should gain in­telligence respecting their asses. Saul re­plied, that they had nothing to give him as areward for his prophecy, for their subsistence-money was spent; but the servant answered,that he had still the fourth part of a shekel,*and he would present him with that; for theywere mistaken out of ignorance, as not know­ing that the prophet received no such re­ward. So they went to him; and when theywere before the gates, they met with certainmaidens that were going to fetch water, andthey asked them which was the prophet'shouse? They shewed them which it was,and bade them make haste before he was setdown to supper, for he had invited manyguests to a feast, and that he used to sit downbefore those that were invited. Now Samuelhad gathered many together to feast with himon this very account; for while he every dayprayed to God to tell him beforehand whomhe would make king, he had informed him theday before, that he would send him a certainyoung man out of the tribe of Benjamin aboutthis hour; and he sat on the top of the housein expectation of that time being come; andwhen the time was completed he came down,and went to supper, so he met with Saul, andGod discovered to him that this was he whoshould rule over the people. Then Saulwent up to Samuel, and saluted him, and de­sired him to inform him which was the pro­phet's house; for he said he was a stranger, "* Of this great mistake of Saul and his servant, as if atrue prophet of God would accept a gift or present forforetelling what was desired of him, see the note on IV. 6. t It seems not improbable, that these 70 guests ofSamuel, as here and in the Septuagint, with himself at thehead of them, were a Jewish Sanhedrim, and that herebySamuel intimated to Saul, that these 71 were to be hisconstant counsellors, and that he was not to act like a solemonarch, but with the advice and direction of these 71members of that Jewish Sanhedrim upon all occasions,which yet we never read that he consulted afterwards. J This was with design to let Saul understand, thatwhat he was going to do was by the divine order and ap­pointment; and that when it should come to the castingof lots, as it did afterwards, 1 Sam. x. 20. he might per­ceive that he was not chosen king by chance of a lot.There might be likewise this further reason for Samuel'sbidding Saul to send away his servants, viz. lest the people,suspecting Samuel to do this by his own will, more thanby God's appointment, might be inclined to mutiny. Sincethis royal unction then was only designed for Saul's privatesatisfaction, it was necessary not to have it published be­fore the people had proceeded to a public election of theirking. Howell's Hist, in the notes. B. and did not know it. Samuel told him thathe was himself the person, and led him in tosupper, assuring him that the asses werefound which he had been to seek, and thatthe greatest of good things was assured tohim. Saul replied, " Sir, I am too inconside­rable to hope for any such thing, and of atribe too small to have kings made out of it,and of a family smaller than several otherfamilies. But thou tellest me this in jest, andmakest me an object of laughter, when thoudiscoursest with me of greater matters thanwhat I stand in need of." However, the pro­phet led him unto the feast, and made himsit down, him and his servant that followedhim, above the other guests that were invited,which were seventy in number, f And hegave order to the servants to set the royalportion before Saul. But when the time ofgoing to bed was come, the rest rose up, andevery one of them went home; but Saul andhis servant stayed with the prophet, and sleptwith him. As soon as it was day, Samuel raised upSaul out of his bed, and conducted him home­ward; and when he was out of the city, hedesired him to cause his servant to go be­fore,:}: but to stay behind himself, for that hehad somewhat to say to him, when nobodyelse was present. Accordingly Saul sentaway his servant that followed him.|| Thenthe prophet took a vessel of oil, and pouredit upon the head of the young man,§ and I1 1 Sam. xi. 27. § We read of no express command for the anointing ofkings, and yet it is plain from the parable of Jotham, Judg.ix. 8. that this was a custom two hundred years before thistime. Why oil, rather than any other liquid, was thesymbol of conveying a. regal authority, we are no whereinformed. It is true, that God directed Moses to conse­crate Aaron to the high-priest's office, by anointing hishead with oil, Exod. xxix. 7. But the anointing of kings,we may presume, was of a prior date. Unction, indeed,in the days of Jacob, was the common method of settingapart from common use even things inanimate, Genesisxxviii. 18. and therefore it may well be supposed thatpersons of such designation, as kings were, were all alongadmitted by the same ceremony, which might be of divineappointment, perhaps at the first institution of government,in the antediluvian world, and thence handed down, by along tradition, to future generations. This rite of unction,in short, was so much the divine care, that we find G odgiving Moses a prescription how to make the consecratedoil, Exod. xxx. 23. But though Solomon was anointedwith the oil taken from the tabernacle, yet since Samuelwas no priest, and could not therefore have any access tothe tabernacle, which at this time was at some distance