OCR Output LERINA. 163 LERNA. Inter Libya. Bat the remains of the New City,->-:ii to belong almost entirely to the period of the!;■■■■ i'i Empire, and especially to the reign of Septi-mias Severus, who restored and beautified this hisnative city. (Spart. Sev. 1; Aurel. Vict. Sp. 20.)It bad already before acquired considerable import­ance under the Romans, whose cause it espousedin the war with Jogurtha (Sail. Jug. 77—79: as toiu later condition see Tac. JJUt. IT. 50); and if, asEekhel inclines to believe, the coins with the epi­graph tt>L. vic. lui- lep. belong mostly, if notentirely, to Leptis Magna, it must have been madea colouy in the earliest period of the empire. It wasitil] a flourishing and populous fortified city in the4th century, when it was greatly injured by an as­sault of a Libyan tribe, called the At'itusiANi (Am-rr.ua. xxviii. 6); and it never recovered from theblow. 3. Justinian is said to hare enclosed a portion ofit wi:h a new wall; but the city itself was alreadyIM far buried in the sand to be restored; and, astar as we can make out, the little that Justinianattempted seems to have amounted only to the en-cliteure of a mi barb, or old Libyan camp, some dis­tance to the E. of the river, on the W. bank ofwhich the city itself had stood. (Procop. de Aed.ri. 4; coin p. Barth.) Its ruin was completedcoring the Arab conquest (Leo, Afr. p. 435);and, though we find it, in the middle ages, the seatrf p>pulous Arab camps, no attempt has been madelo make use of the splendid site, which is nowfactapird by the insignificant village of Legatah,a&d the hamlet of El-Hush, which consists of onlyfjor houses. (For particulars of the ruins, secLucas, Proceedings of the Association, <fc. vol. ii.p. 66. Loni 1810; Delia Cella, Viaggio, tj-c.p. 40: Beechey, Proceedings, tfc. chap. vi. pp. 50,ML; BunlTi Barbary; Barth, Wanderungtn, ifc.H*. 305—315.) [**•*>■] COD* OP LEPTIS. LF.RIXA and LERON. Strabo (p. 185) says:■ Aft*r the Stoeobades are Planasia and Leron(i TlKavturia col A-qpw), which are inhabited;n»-i in Leron there ia also a Leroum of Lcron, andLeron is in front of Antipolia." (Antibes.) Pliny(iii. 5) has * Lero. et Lcrina adversus Antipolim."rVUmy (ii. 10. § '21) places Lerone (A^pwnj)Wort the month of the Var. Lerina once had atown named Vergoanum (Pliny). The MaritimeI'l. place* "Lero et Lerinas insnlae ■ 11 M. P.mm Antipolia. The* two islands are the Lerinsy off the coast oftie French department of Tor. Strabo's Planasiai* aappnted to be Lerina, because it is Mat; Leronmast then be the larger island, called Salute Mar-frite; and D'Anville conjectures that the mo-nasterr dedicated to Sainte Marguerite took thep** of the Leroum of Lero, which is mentioned by&rabo. The position of these two small islands is fixed more accurately by the Itin. than by thegeographers. Lerina, from which the modern nameLtrtns comes, is very small; it is called St. Honwat,from a bishop of Aries in the fifth century, who wasalso a saint. [G.L.] LERNA or LERNE (A*>a, Acpvy), t,ie 1,;imeof a marshy district at the south-western extremityof the Argive plain, near the sea, and celebrated asthe spot where Hercules slew the many-headedHydra, or water-snake. [SecWc/. of Biogr. Vol. II.p. 394.] In this part of the plain, there is anumber of copious springs, which overflow the districtand turn it into a marsh; and there can be littledoubt that the victory of Hercules over the Hydra, isto be understood of a successful attempt of theancient lords of the Argive plain to bring its marshyextremity into cultivation, by draining its sourcesand embanking its streams. The name of Lcrna isusually given to the whole district (Paus. ii. 15. § 5,ii. 24. § 3, ii. 36. § 6, ii. 38. § 1; Plut Cltom.15), but other writers apply it more particularly tothe river and the lake. (Strab, viii. p. 368.) Thedistrict was thoroughly drained in antiquity, andcovered with sacred buildings, of which Panamashas left us an account (ii. 3G, 37). A road ledfrom Argos to Lerna, and the distance from the gateof the city to the sea-coast of Lerna was 40 stadia.Above Lerna is the Mountain Pontinus (rioiriVos),which according to Pausanias absorbs the rainwater, and thus prevents it from running off. Onits summit, on which there are now the ruins of amediaeval castle, Pausanias saw the remains of atemple of Athena Saitis, and the foundations of thehouse of Hippomedon, one of the seven Argive chiefswho marched against Thebes, (Acpycua 8' oucetvd^iaO' 'lirwofjLfSuv &fa£, Eurip. Phoen. 126.)The grove of Lerna, which consisted for the mostpart of plane trees, extended from Mount Pontinusto the sea, and was bounded on one side by a rivercalled Pontinus, and on the other by a river namedAmymone. The grove of Lerna contained twotemples, in one of which Demeter Prosymna andDionysus were worshipped, and in the other DionysusSaotes. In this grove a festival, called the Lernaea,was celebrated in honour of Demeter and Dionysus.Pausanias also mentions the fountain of Amphiaraus,and theAlcyonian pool (jj 'AAxveWa \ifivrj), throughwhich the Argives say that Dionysus descended intoHades in order to recover Semele. The Alcyonianpool was said to be unfathomable, and the emperorNero in vain attempted to reach its bottom with asounding line of several fathoms in length. Thecircumference of the pool is estimated by Pausaniasas only one-third of a stadium: its margin wascovered with grass and rushes. Pausanias was toldthat, though the lake appeared so still and quiet,yet, if any one attempted to swim over it, he wasdragged down to the bottom. Here Pmsymnus issaid to have pointed out to Dionysus the entrance inthe lower world. A nocturnal ceremony was con­nected with this legend; expiatory rites were per­formed by the side of the pool, and, in consequence ofthe impurities which were then thrown into the pool,the proverb arose of a Lerna of ills. (Atpvy mump;see Preller, Demeter, p. 212.) The river Pontinus issues from three sources atthe foot of the hill, and joins the sea north of somemills, after a course of only a few hundred yards.The Amymone is formed by seven or eight copioussources, which issue from under the rocks, andwhich arc evidently the subterraneous outlet of one of M 2