OCR Output B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. n though Cleon, who from the sirst had never intended to. stand an engagement, flies instantly awayand, beingintercepted by a Myrcinian targeteer, is slain. But hisheavy-armed, embodying together and gaining an emi­nence, repulsed Clearidas, who twice or thrice attackedthem, and maintained their ground till the Myrcinianand Chalcidic cavalry and the targeteers, 'surroundingand pouring in their darts upon them, compelled themto fly. Thus the whole Athenian army was distressed ina laborious flight: They ran different ways amongst themountains; numbers had been destroyed in the charge,others by the Chalcidic horse and targeteers; but theremainder escaped in safety to Ei'on. Those who took up Brasidas, when he dropped inthe action, and bore him osf, carried him into the cityyet alive. His senses remained till he heard his partywere victorious, and soon after that he expired.* The rest of the army with Clearidas, being comeback from the pursuit, rifled the dead and erected atrophy. This done, all the confederates assisted under arms atthe funeral of Brafidas, whom they interred at the pub­lic expence within the city, near the place where the fo­rum now standeth. And afterwards the Amphipolitans,having inclosed his monument, performed sacrisice tohim as a hero. They also enacted solemn games in hishonour and annual sacrifices. Nay, they ascribed theircolony to him as founder, after demolishing the edisicesof Agnon, and defacing every memorial which mightcontinue the memory of his foundation. They actedthus, partly out of real gratitude to Brafidas, whom theyregarded as their deliverer, and partly at this juncture * The first embassy, which came from the Grecians in Thrace to Sparta, afterthe death of Brafidas, made a visit to his mother Argileonis. The first queston sheasked them was, Didmy fin die bravely? And when the embassadors expatiatedlargely in his praise, and said, at last. There was not such another Spartan left alive,—* You mistake, gentlemen, said the mother, my fin was a good man j but there are manyteller men than be in Sparta, Plutarch's Laconic Apophthegms. to