OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S77 BOOK XVI. CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF TWELVE YEARS. [FROM THE FINISHING OF THE TEMPLE BY HEROD TOTHE DEATH OF ALEXANDER AND ARISTOBULUS.J CHAP. I. A law of Herod about thieves. Salome and Pheroras, calum­niate Alexander and Aristobulus, upon their return from Rome,for whom yet Herod provides wives. § 1. As king Herod was very zealous in the administrationof his entire government, and desirous to put a slop to particularacts of injustice which were clone by criminals about thecity and country, he made a law, no way like our originallaws, and which he enacted of himself, to expose housebreak­ers to be ejected out of his kingdom; which punishment wasnot only grievous to be borne by the offenders, but containedin it a dissolution of the customs of our forefathers; for thisslavery to foreigners, and such as did not live after the mannerof Jews, and this necessity that they were under to do whatsoeversuch men should command, was an offence against our religioussettlement, rather than a punishment to such as were found tohave offended, such a punishment being avoided in our originallaws; for those laws ordain, that the thief shall restore four-fold:and that if he have not so much, he shall be sold indeed, but notto foreigners, nor so that he be under perpetual slavery, for hemust have been released after six years. But this law, thusenacted, in order to introduce a severe and illegal punishment,seemed to be a piece of insolence in Herod, when he did not actas a king but as a tyrant, and thus contemptuously, and with­out any regard to his subjects, did he venture to introduce sucha punishment. Now this penalty, thus brought into practice,was like Herod's other actions, and became a part of his accu­sation, and an occasion of the hatred he lay under. 2. Now at this time it was that he sailed to Italy, as very de­sirous to meet with Caesar, and to see his sons who lived at Rome:and Caesar was not only very obliging to him in other respects,but delivered him his sons again, that he might take them homewith him as having already completed themselves in' the sci­ences; but as soon as tne young men were come from Italy, the