OCR Output 326 THE DECLINE AND FALL, city, known under the name of Yathreb, before it was sanctified by the throne ofthe prophet, was divided between the tribes of the Charegites and the Awsites,whose hereditary feud was rekindled by the slightest provocations: two coloniesof Jews, who boasted a sacerdotal race, were their humble allies, and withoutconverting the Arabs, they introduced the taste of science and religion, which dis­tinguished Medina as the city of the book. Some of her noblest citizens, in a pil­grimage to the Caaba, were converted by the preaching of Mahomet; on their re­turn they diffused the belief of God and his prophet, and the new alliance wasratified by their deputies in two secret ano* nocturnal interviews on a hill in thesuburbs of Mecca. In the first, ten Charegites and two Awsites united in faithand love, protested in the name of their wives, their children, and their absentbrethren, that they would for ever profess the creed, and observe the precepts, ofthe Koran. The second was a political association, the first vital spark of the em­pire of the Saracens. (1) Seventy-three men and two women of Medina held asolemn conference with Mahomet, his kinsmen, and his disciples; and pledgedthemselves to each other by a mutual oath of fidelity. They promised in thename of the city, that if he should be banished, they would receive him as a confe­derate, obey him as a leader, and defend him to the last extremity, like theirwives and children. " But if you are recalled by your country," they asked with aflattering anxiety, " will you not abandon your new allies'"—" All things," repliedMahomet with a smile, "are now common between us; your blood is as my blood,your ruin as my ruin. We are bound to each other by the ties of honour and in­terest. I am your friend, and the enemy of your foes."—"But if we are killedin your service, what," exclaimed the deputies of Medina, "will be our reward!"—" Paradise," replied the prophet. " Stretch forth thy hand." He stretched itforth, and they reiterated the oath of allegiance and fidelity. Their treaty wasratified by the people, who unanimously embraced the profession of Islam; theyrejoiced in the exile of the apostle, but they trembled for his safety, and impa­tiently expected his arrival. After a perilous and rapid journey along the sea-coast, he halted at Koba, two miles from the city, and made his public entry intoMedina, sixteen days after his flight from Mecca. Five hundred of the citizensadvanced to meet him: he was hailed with acclamations of loyalty and devotion:Mahomet was mounted on a she-camel, an umbrella shaded his head, and a tur­ban was unfurled before him to supply the deficiency of a standard. His bravestdisciples, who had been scattered by the storm, assembled round his person; andthe equal, though various, merit of the Moslems were distinguished by the namesof Moajrerians and Ansars, the fugitives of Mecca, and the auxiliaries of Medina.To eradicate the seeds of jealousy, Mahomet judiciously coupled his principal fol­lowers with the rights and obligations of brethren; and when AH found himselfwithout a peer, the prophet tenderly declared, that he would be the companionand brother of the noble youth. The expedient was crowned with success; theholy fraternity was respected both in peace and war, and the two parties vied witheach other in a generous emulation of courage and fidelity. Once only the con­cord was slightly ruffled by an accidental quarrel: a patriot of Medina arraignedthe insolence of the strangers, but the hint of their expulsion was heard with ab-liorrence, and his own son most eagerly offered to lay at the apostle's feet the headof his father. , From his establishment at Medina, Mahomet assumed the exercise of the regaland sacerdotal office; and it was impious to appeal from a judge whose decreeswere inspired by the divine wisdom. A small portion of ground, the patrimonyof two orphans, was acquired by gift or purchase;(2) on that chosen spot, he builta house and a mosch, more venerable in their rude simplicity than the palaces andtemples of the Assyrian caliphs. His seal of gold, or silver, was inscribed withthe apostolic title: when he prayed and preached in the weekly assembly, heleaned against the trunk of a palm tree; and it was long before he indulged him- (1) The triple inauguration of Mahomet is described by Abulieda (p. 30. 33. 40. 86.) and Gagnier (torn. i.p. 342, &c 349, &c. lorn. ii. p. 223, &c.) (2) Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 44.) reviles the wickedness of the-impostor, who despoiled two poor or­phans, the sons ofa carpenter: a reproach which he drew from the Dispuuttio contra Saracenos, composed inArabic before the year 1130; but the honest Gagnier (ad Abttlfed. p. S3.; has shown that they were deceived bythe word Al Nagjar, which signifies, in this place,not an obscure trade, tat a noble tribe of Arab*. The deso­late state of the ground is described by Abulfeda; and his worthy interpreter has proved from Al Bochari, theoffer of aprice;from Al Jannabi, the fair purchase; and from Ahmed Ben Joseph, the payment of Uicmoneyt>y the generous Abubeker. On these grounds the prophet must be honourably acquitted.