OCR Output 44 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX, sorts of their fruits to the priests and the Levites. The kingalso made garners and receptacles for these fruits, and distribut­ed them to every one of their priests and Levites, and to theirchildren and wives. And thus did they return to their old formof divine worship. Now when the king had settled these mat­ters after the manner already described, he made war upon thePhilistines, and beat them, and possessed himself of ah1 the ene­mies' cities from Gaza to Gath; but the king of Assyria sentto him, and threatened to overturn all his dominions, unless hewould pay him the tribute which his father paid him formerly;but king Hezekiah was not concerned at his threatenings, butdepended on his piety towards God, and upon Isaiah the pro­phet, by whom he inquired, and accurately knew all futureevents. And thus much shall suffice for the present concerningthis king Hezekiah. CHAP. XIV. flow Shalmaneser took Samaria by force, and how Tie transplantedthe ten tribes into Media, and brought the nation of the Cutheansinto their country [in their room']. $ 1. WHEN Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, had it toldhim, that [Hoshea], the king of Israel had sent privately toSo, the king of Egypt, desiring his assistance against him,he was very angry, and made an expedition against Sama­ria, in the seventh year of the reign of Hoshea; but whenhe was not admitted [into the city] by the king, * he besiegedSamaria three years, and took it by force in the ninth year ofthe reign of Hoshea, and in the seventh year of Hezekiah kingof Jerusalem, and quite demolished the government of theIsraelites, and transplanted all the people into Media, andPersia, among whom he took king Hoshea alive; and when hehad removed these people out of this their land, he transplantedother nations out of Cuthath, a place so called, (for there is [still]a river of that name in Persia) into Samaria, and into the coun­try of the Israelites. So the ten tribes of the Israelites were re-mQved out of Judea, nine hundred and forty-seven years aftertheir forefathers were come out of the land of Egypt, and pos­ * The siege of Samaria, though nor given a particular account of, either in ourHebrew or Greek Bibles, or in Josephus, was so very long, no less than three years,that it was no way improbable but that parents, and particularly mothers, mighttherein be reduced to e»t their own children, as the law of Moses had threatenedupon their disobedience, Lev-it- xxvi. 29. Deut, xxviii. 53—57. and as was accom­ptished in the other shorter sieges of both the capital cities, Jerusalem and Samaria;the former mentioned, Jer. xix. 9. Antiq. B. IX. ch. 4. § 4. and the latter. 2 King*»i. 2U—29.