OCR Output OF ROME. 465 XIII. IN the country of the Volfcians, Anxur was BOOKquietly re.taken, through the neglect of the guards . -^___.on a feftival day. This year was remarkable for a Y.R. jJ5.cold winter and great falls of fnow, fo that the roads B'c. M.Were impaiTable, and the navigation of the Tiberftmt up. There was no change in the price of pro-vifions, confiderable (tores having been previouflycollected. As Publius Licinius had obtained his of­fice without any riotous proceeding, to the great joyof the commons, and the no lefs mortification of thepatricians, fo the fame regularity was preferved throughthe whole courfe of his adminiftration. Hencethe people became enraptured with the thoughts ofchoofing plebeians at the next election of military YR -tribunes. Of the patrician candidates, Marcus Ve- B. C. 354.turius alone carried his election. The centuries al-moft unanimoufly appointed the following plebeiansmilitary tribunes with confular power: Marcus Pom-ponius, Caius Duilius, Volero Publilius, CneiusGenutius, and Lucius Atilius. The fevere winter,whether from the ill temperature of the air, caufedby the fudden tranfition from one extreme to theother, or from tbme other caufe, was fucceeded bya fickly fummer, fatal to all kinds of animals; 2ndneither the caufe nor end of the incurable virulenceof the difbrder being difcoverable, the Sibyllinebooks were confuked, in purluance of a decree ofthe fenate. The decemvirs who had the directionof religious matters, then firft introduced the lecti-. fternium * in the city of Rome, and decking out threecouches, with the utmoft magnificence which' thofetimes could afford, implored thus the favour ofApollo, Latojia, and Diana; and of Hercules, Mer- • From 'leflus' a bed, or rather couch, and 'ftcr.io' to fpread.Upon couches of ihis kind the Romans reclined at their meals, hut'efueciaily at entertainments. Upon this occafion thefc coud..es werebrought out into the Iheels, and being decorated in the muft magni­ficent manner, the Ibtues of the gods and goddcHts were laid uponthem, and fumptuou* banquets jjlaccd befoic tliun. Ot thclc repattsall comeK were allowed to partake. VOL. i. H H cury,