OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 21 •the gods gave a person the lot of appointing, they gavehim at the same time full freedom of choice: that hewould act in this case agreeably to his own judgment,and would name, to the honor contended for, QuintusFabius Maximus, whom he could prove to be the firstof the whole Roman state, even in Hannibal's opinion.After a long dispute his colleague gave up the point,and Sempronius chose the consul, Quintus FabiusMaximus, prince of the senate. Then the list of thenew senate was read, in which eight were left out,among whom was Lucius Caecilius Metellus, infamousfor having, after the defeat at Cannes, advised theabandonment of Italy. In their review of the eques­trian order also, they censured every one concernedwith him; but the number disgraced on that accountwas very small. From all the cavalry of the legionsof Cannae then in Sicily, and their number was great,their horses were taken away. To this they addedanother punishment in point of time ; ordering that thecampaigns which those men had served on horses givenby the public should not intitle them to release, butthat they should serve during ten others on horses oftheir own. They also searched for, and discovered, agreat number, who ought to be ranked in the cavalry;and all of these who had been seventeen years old atthe beginning of the war, and had not served, theydisfranchised. They then contracted for the repairsof the buildings round the forum, which had been de­stroyed by the fire,—seven shops, the shambles, andthe royal palace. 12. Having finished the necessary business at Rome,the consuls set out for the campaign. Fulvius, first,went forward to Capua; in a few days after Fabiusfollowed, and he earnestly intreated his colleague inperson, and Marcellus by letter, to make the mostvigorous efforts to keep Hannibal employed, while heshould carry on the siege of Tarentum; observing'that, when that city should be taken from the enemy,who was already repailsed in every quarter, and wouldthen have no place where ;he conld rest, or to which