OCR Output 793 ROMA. ROMA which Atticus had m often admired. Howeverthis may be, we see through the obscurity ofCicero's letter tlic rough sketch of a magnificentdesign of Caesar's, which had not yet been per­fectly matured. The whole space from the backof the Basilica Aemilia as far as the Septa Julia inthe Campus Martius was to be thrown open; andperhaps even the excavation of the extremity of theQoirinal, ultimately executed by Trajan, may havebeen comprised in the plan. Cicero is evidently halfashamed of this vast outlay in favour of Caesar, andseeka to excuse it with Atticus by leading htm toinfer that it will place his favourite monument in abetter point of view. When Cicero wrote the planwas evidently in a crude and incipient state.The first pretence put forth was probably a mereextension of the Forum Kouianum; but when Caesara few years later attained to supreme power the newfoundation became the Forum J it limn. In hisposition some caution was requisite in these af­fairs. Thus the curia of Faustus was polled downunder pretence of erecting on its site a temple ofFelicitM—a compliment to the boasted good for­tune of .Sulla, and his name of Felix. But insteadof it rose the Curia Julia. The discrepancy in thesums mentioned by Cicero and Suetonius probablyarose from the circumstance that as the work pro­ceeded it was found necessary to buy more houses.If this buying up of private houses was not for theForum Julium, for what pur]>osc could it possiblyhave been? The Curia Julia stood on the site ofthe Curia Hostilia, the Basilica Julia on that of theSempronia, and we know of no other buildings de­signed by Caesar about the forum. With regard to the situation of tho AXBIOM Ll-Hertatis, to which Cicero says the forum was to beextended, we are inclined to look for it, with Becker,on that projection of the Quirinal which was sub-aequentlj cut away in order to make room for theforum of Trajan. The words of Livy, u Censoresexternplo in atrium Libertatia (scenderunt" (xliii.16), seem to point to a height. A fragment ofthe CapitolilM plan, bearing the inscription i,ibeic-TATls, seems to be rightly referred by Carina tothe Basilica Ulpia. {Foro Horn. p. 185; cf. Becker,Antirnrt, .('c. p. 29.) Now, if our conjecture re­specting the site of the Atrium Libertatis is cor­rect, it would have been occupied by the forum ofTrajan and it.s appurtenances; and it thereforeappears probable that the Atrium was comprehendedin the Basilica Ulpia. Nor is this a mere unfoundedguess, since it appear! from some lines of SidoniusApollinarifl (A/jm/. 2), that in his time the BasilicaUlpia was the place where slaves received their manu­mission. And that the old Atrium Libertatis was de­voted to manumission and other business respectingslaves appears from several passages of ancientauthors. Thus Livy: "Postremo eo deseensum est, utex quatuor urbants tribubus unam palam in AtriaLibertatis sortirentur, in quam omnes, qui servitutcmserviasent, conjicerent" (xlv. 15). And Cicero:u Sed quaestiones urgent Milunem, quae sunt babitaenunc in Atrio Lilwrtatis: Quibusnam de servis?" &c.{Mil. *J2). Lastly, it may be mentioned that thefollowing fragment of an inscription was found nearthe church of S. Martina, and therefore near litis t.pot; SEXATVS • rOPVLVSQVK [p.OM.VNVs]UBKRTATL (Camna, Foro Horn, p. 391). The preceding letter of Cicero's points to the Forum Julium as closely adjoining the KuT'«s At*milia, and there are other circumstances this aafl>e adduced in proof of the same site. 0*~A ( Fa*i. 258) alludes to the temple of Janus a* lyaf fewtween two fora, and these must hare ntea aafForum Romanum and the Forum Caeaaro.story (xvi. 86) of the lotns-tne on the Vahaflthe roots of which penetrated to the fri JCaesar, whatever may be its absolute truth, aamVall events have possessed sufficient prubaaUfeyiflnot actually incredible; and there is no uaana^lCaesar's forum which tallies with that story Ithan that here assigned to it withsite of the Vulcanal. as established in the ]pages. Our Vulcanal need not baremore than about 30 yards from the Ftrmn Jthat of Becker lies at about five tunc* that Jfrom it, and would render Pliny'i accoannImprobable. Palladio mentions that in his time camremains of a temple were discovered behind twhere the statue of Marforio then tvxd.:church of S. Martina, whicbt from the Iadorned with sculptures of dolphins and Ualtook to be one dedicated to Neptune,have no accounts of a temple of Septaneighbourhood, and as these emblem* Isuit tlte sea-born goddess, it seems prbaSie;remains belonged to the temple of V«Tliis is still more strikingly confirmed by 1account of its style of architecture,pyenostyle, as we know that of Venus to I(Archil, lib. iv. 31; comp. Vitruv. iii. |' We can hardly doubt, therefore, that tat fCaesar lay on this spot, as is indicated ef t*various circumstances. The only objerfiaalbeen urged against it is the followineSenius, which places the A - -ii.irrra. twhich undoubtedly adjoined the Forumquite a different ]>art of the town: *belli portae—Sacrarium lwc Noma Pacirca imum Argiletum juxtaquod fuit in duobus brevi&simts itxpos.autem propter Janum bifrocitem. TmFaliscis, civitate Tusciae, inveotum «Jani cum frontibus qiutuor. UnoVstituerat transiatum est ad forum Trquatuor portarum unum temjdum est{ad Virg. Am. vii. 607). Thai theadjoined the fomm of Caesar is evident Jfollowing epigram of Martial'* (L 117 "Qnnd quaeris propius petas licrbxtArgi nempe soles subire letum:Contra Caesaris est forum 1Script is postibus hinc et inde toOmnes ut cito perieyas poeraa.Itlinc me pete, ne mges AtreeteBB^iHoc nomen dominus gent 1 Hence, if Servius is right, the forum of inot have been where we have placed it, IS. side of the Capitoline hill; and thia <found some defenders (Mormnscn,fiistit. vol. xvi. p. 311, set}.) We Ithe situation of the small temple at •belli pacisque, has been clearlv twe have said in the former partServius is evidently confounding thwith the larger one near the LliesUr* at jand indeed the whole passage is a bFor bow can we connect such remote