OCR Output 2 THE PELOPONKESIAN WAR. by sea and land, as then the only view of culture was toearn a penurious subsistence, and superfluous wealth was athing unknown, as planting was not their employment, itbeing uncertain how soon an invader might come and dis­lodge them from their unfortified habitations, and as theythought they might every where find their daily necessarysupport, they hesitated but little about shifting their seats:And for this reason they never flourished in the greatness oftheir cities or any other circumstance of power. But therichest tracts of country ever were more particularly liableto this frequent change of inhabitants, such as that which isnow called Thessaly, and Boeotia, and Peloponnesus most­ly except Arcadia, and in general every the most fertilepart of Greece. For the natural wealth of their soil increas­ing the power of some amongst them, that power raisedcivil dissentions, which ended in their ruin, and at the sametime exposed them more to foreign attacks. It was onlythe barrenness of the soil that preserved Attica through thelongest space of time quiet and undisturbed, in one unin­terrupted series of possessors. One, and not the least con­vincing, proof of this is, that other parts of Greece, becauseof the fluctuating condition of the inhabitants, could by nomeans in their growth keep pace with Attica. The mostpowerful of those, who were driven from the other parts ofGreece by war or sedition, betook themselves to the Athe­nians for secure refuge, and as they obtained the privilegesof citizens*, have constantly, from remotest time, continuedto enlarge that city with fresh accessions of inhabitants, in- • They were admitted to the same privileges with free born Athenians.But this was practised only in the infancy and early growth of that state.It was afterwards an honour veiy seldom and with difficulty granted. Thosewho came from other places to settle at Athens are distinguished frommAitmi citizens, by the name of fi-iroiKti sojourners. who had taken uptheir residence and cohabited with them. They performed several dutiesas subjects to the state which gave them protection, but never becameAthenians, or citizens of Athens, in the emphatical sense of those terms.The English reader will please to remember this, as the distinction oftenuccurs in the sequel of our history.