OCR Output SILO AM. 1001 SIMOIS. L Jtnxat plmces it xiL M. P. from Neapolis (=Sbe-i« = .VuWii»), in the toparchy of Acrabattena.(fwmoMt. t. r.) Its ruins were shown, and theTr-iias of the altar among them, in his day. ( Com-•t in Sophon. i. 14, Epitaph. Paulae.) Fromkm notes the site is easily identified with theritra Silun, on the east of the Nablut road, abouta boars south of that town, situated over againstrilkge named El-Lebban (Lebonah), which lendsi cues also to a Khan on the road-aide. Silun iswtiy a heap of ruins lying on a hill of moderatenation at the socth-easteru extremity of a valleymacs which passes the great north road fromuttea to Galilee. M Among the ruins of modernwj are traces of buildings of greater antiquity,<: at some distance, towards the east, is a well of*i water, and in the valleys many tombs ex-TUei in the rock.'* (Robinson, Bibl. Re*, vol. iii.i$6—89.) Among the tombs of Shiloh, if Re-tfi conjecture is correct, is to be sought the verybier authority on which the pagans rested theirunion that their demigod Silenus was buried in • country of the Hebrews; and the fact of theirr of this deity being found on the coins ofmx Neapolis, certainly lends countenance to hiscaiwa hypothesis that the fable originated inr imaginary correspondence between this namei the town of Ephraim. (Palaettma, p. 1017.)it the error which he has copied from Benjamin of■Ma. of placing the tomb of Samuel in Shiloh, isnowjy attributable to a lapse of memory on theft of that writer, as no one has ever identifiedflea with the ' modern A'eAi Samicil. The errorcorrected by Asher. (Itinerary of R. BenjaminTmjrla, ed. A. Asher, vol. i. p. 78, vol. ii. p. I) [O.W.]SILOAM. [Jerusalem, p. 28, b.]MLI'IA, a town in Hispania Baetica, N. of thestk, and apparentlr in the Sierra Morena. (Liv.»d, li.) Probably Linares. [T. H. D.] M'LSILIS (A'or. Imp.), a fort situated on thebank of tne Nile, between Umbos and Apolli-Magna in Upper Aegypt. The original■ of this place is nearly preserved in the modernUi The fort of Silailis stood at the foot of theWain now called Gebtl Seltilek, or " hill of thein," and was one of the points which commandedI passage of the river. For at this spot the•koa and Libyan hills approach each other sorn that the Kile, contracted to about half itsBaary width, seems to flow between two perpen-ttlir walk of sandstone. Silsilis was one of the"'■;-»] seats for the worship of the Nile itself, and11. consecrated a temple to it, where it wasunder the emblem of a crocodile and theof Hapimooo. The stone quarries ofel» wen also celebrated for their durable andBLful stone, of which the great temples andiamenta of the Thebaid were for the most part'- (Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt and Thebe*, vol. ii.BS.) [W. B. D.] S1LVANECTES. This name occurs in thettia of the Provinces of Gallia, where the chiefre is called Civitas Silvanectium. In the Notit.pi the Sitvanectea are placed in Belgica Secunda,■ ute name there denotes a town, according to thew then established of giving to the capital townsi turn of their people. It appears almost certain • the fabanecti of Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 11) is the» name aa Strvanectae or Silvanectes. Ptolemy»■ the Sohasecti east of the Seine, and makes Ratomagos their capital. But this Ratoinagus isconjectured to be the same as the Augustoniagus ofthe Itin. and of the Table, which is Setitis [Ai - aUSTOMAOUs]. Pliny (iv. c. 17) mentions the Ulm&netes inGallia Belgica: "Suessioncs liberi,Ulmanetes liberi,Tungri." It is possible that this too may be a cor­rupted form of Silvanectes. fur the modern nameSenli* confirms the form Silvanectes, and I lie nameUlmanetes is otherwise unknown. [G. L.] SILVIA, a place in lllyria, on the road fromSirmiutn to Salona. (/(in. Ant. p. 269.) It isprobably the same town as the Salvia of Ptolemy[Salvia]. It is identified with Keupris by La-pie. [T. a D.] SILVIUM (SiAoftor: Eth. Silvinus: Ganujnone),a town of Apulia in the interior of the country. Itis noticed by Slrabo (vi. p. 283) as the frontier townof the Peucelii, and its name is noticed by Plinyamong the municipal towns of Apulia (Plin. iii. 11.s. 1G). But at a much earlier period it is mentionedby Diodoma as an Apuliun town, which was wrestedfrom the Samnites by the Romans in i c. 30G(Diod. xx. 80). Our only clue to its position isderived from the Itineraries, which place it 20 milesfrom Venusia, on the branch of the Appall Waywhich led direct to Tarentum. This distance coin­cides with the site of a town (now destroyed) calledGaragnone, situated about midway between Spmaz~tola and Pogyio Ortino, and nearly due E. of I'tnoia(Pratilli, ViaAppia, iv. 6. p. 478; Komanelli, vol. iip. 188). [E.H. B.] SILURA, an island of Britain, separated only bya narrow strait from the coast of the Dumnuuii, whoinhabited the most S\V. point of Britannia. (Solin.c. 22.) It is probably the same island which Sul-picius Severus (ii. 51) calls Sylina, and seetns tomean the Scilly Islands. [T. H. D.] SI'LURES (SiAuoer, Ptol. ii. 3. § 24), a powerfuland warlike people in the W. part of Britannia Ro-mana, whose territory was bounded on the S. by theestuary of the Sabriua. The important towns ofIsca and Vents belonged to them. Tacitus (Ayr.11) calls them descendants of the Iberi of Spoiltand states that they had emigrated from Irelandinto Britain; but there seems to be no foundationfor this opinion. (Cf. Zenss, Die Deutschen, p.202.) Although subjugated by the Romans, theycaused them continual alarm; aud they were theonly people of Britain who, at a later period, main­tained their independence against the Saxons.(Beds, Hist Ecc. i. 12, seq.; cf. Tac. Ann. xii. 2,31; Plin. iv. 16. s. 30.) [T. II. I).] SIMK'NA (Sfiinva: Eth. 2oun«ut), a town on thecoast of Lycia, 60 stadia from Aperlae(Plin. v. 27;Steph. B. s. v.; Stadiasm. Afar. Mag. §§ 239, 240,where it is called Somena, Sd/xnra ; comp. LeakeAsia Minor, p. 188; Sprattand Forbes, Trarels inLycia, vol. i. p. 137, vol. ii. pp. 86, 274.) [L. S.] SI'MKNI. [Icenl] SIMEON. [Palaestina, p. 529, b.] SIMITTU (2iM<o-eoo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 29), called byPliny (v. 4. § 4) Simittnense Oppidum, a Romancolony in the interior of Xumidia, on the road fromCirta to Carthago, 7 miles to the W. of Bulla Rrgia.(Itin. Ant p. 43.) There were some mineral waters5 miles E. of the town (/*.). It lay on the site ofthe ]>resent A in Semit, on the Qucd-el- Bull, 2 leaguesto the W. of BkII. [T. H 1X1 SIMOIS (3bt<«W), a small river of Tmss, havingits source in Mount Ida, or more accurately in MmH