OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343 But in the prosecution of a favourite scheme, the best of men, satis- His death,fied with the rectitude of their intentions, are subject to forget thebounds of moderation j nor did Probus himself sufficiently consultthe patience and disposition of his fierce legionaries 6o. The dangersof the military profession seem only to be compensated by a life ofpleasure and idleness; but if the duties of the soldier are in­cessantly aggravated by the labours of the peasant, he will at lastsink under the intolerable burden, or shake it off with indignation.The imprudence of Probus is said to have inflamed the discontentof his troops. More attentive to the interests of mankind thanto those of the army, he expressed the vain hope, that, by theestablishment of universal peace, he ihould soon abolish the necessityof a standing and mercenary force 61. The unguarded expressionproved fatal to him. In one of the hottest days of summer, a« heseverely urged the unwholesome labour of draining the marches ofSirmium, the soldiers, impatient of fatigue,, on a sudden threwdown their tools, grasped their arms, and broke out into a furiousmutiny. The emperor, conscious of his danger, took refuge in alofty tower, constructed for the purpose of surveying the progressof the work 6z. The tower was instantly forced, and a thousand A.v.tSg.swords were plunged at once in the bosom ©f tJie unfortunate *August"Probus. The rage of the troops subsided as .seon as it had beengratified. They then lamented their fatal rashness, forgot the se­verity of the emperor, whom they had massacred, and hastened toperpetuate, by an honourable monument, the memory of his vir­tues and victories 6'. When the legions had indulged their grief and repentance for Eleaion andthe death of Probus, their unanimous consent declared Carus, his caTus?" °fPrætorian prefect, the most deserviug of the imperial throne.Every circumstance that relates to this prince appears of a mixedand doubtful nature. He gloried in the title of Roman Citizen;and affected to compare the purity of his blood, with the foreign and