OCR Output 266 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. signed between both parties and the Athenians—" to have" the same friends and the same foes." Having so far carriedhis point, he was intent on immediate departure. But the?managers for the people made him a proposal, to leave fiveships of his squadron with them, to deter the enemy fromany fresh commotion, which should be replaced by five ofthe in own, which they would instantly man to attend himon .his station. With this proposal he complied ; and theynamed distinctly the mariners, who to a man were of theopposite party. Affrighted at this as a pretext to conveythem to Athens, they sit down in the temple of the Dioscuri.Nicostratus endeavoured to raise them up and chear theirdespondency. Yet all he could say was unavailing; and thepeople run again to arms, pretending that such a refusal toput to sea was a plain proof that their intentions were in­sincere throughout. Then they rifled their houses of all thearms they could find ; and some of them who fell into theirhands had immediately been butchered if Nicostratus had notinterposed. A second party, terrified at these proceedings, take theirseats also as suppliants in the temple of Juno. The num­ber of these was not less than four hundred. The people,grown now apprehensive of some fatal turn, persuade themto leave their sanctuary ; and having prevailed, transportthem into that island which faceth the temple of Juno,whither every thing needful for their sustenance was care­fully sent them. The sedition continuing in this posture, about the fourth orfifth day after the transportation of the latter body into theisland, the Peloponnesian ships, which had assembled at Cyl-lene after the voyage of Ionia, appear in sight to the numberof fifty-three. Alcidas was commander in chief as before,and Brasidas attended as his council. They came to anchorin the harbour of Sybota on the main ; and next morning, atbreak of day, steered directly for Corcyra. Great was the tumult now at Corcvra : Thev were afraid