OCR Output 156 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V. 2. For Eleazar, the son of Simon, who made the first se足paration of the zealots from the people, and made them retireinto the temple, appeared very angry at John's insolent at足tempts, -which he made every day upon the people; for thisman never left off murdering: but the truth was that he couldnot bear to submit to a tyrant who was set up after him. Sche being desirous of gaining the entire power and dominionto himself, revolted from John, and took to his assistanceJudas, the son of Chcleias, and Simon, the son of Ezron, whowere among the men of greatest power. There was also withhim ITezekiah, the son of Chobar, a person of eminence.Each of these was followed by a great many of the zealots;these seized upon the inner court1 of the temple, and laidtheir arms upon the holy gates, and over the holy fronts ofthat court. And because they had plenty of provisions, theywere of good courage; for there was great abundance of whatwas consecrated to sacred uses, and they scrupled not themaking use of them ; yet were they afraid on account of theirsmall number, and when they had laid up their arms there,they did not stir from the place they were in. Now, as toJohn, what advantage he had above Eleazar in the multitudeof his followers, the like disadvantage he had in the situationhe was in, since he had his enemies over his head; and as hecould not make any assault upon them without some terror,so was his anger too great to let him be at rest: nay, althoughhe suffered more mischief from Eleazar and his party thanhe could inflict upon them, yet would not he leave off assault足ing them, insomuch that there were continual sallies madeone against another, as well as darts thrown at one another,and the temple was defiled every where with murders. 3. But now the tyrant Simon, the son of Gioras, whom thepeople had invited in, out of the hopes they had of his assist足 1 This appears to be the first time that the zealots ventured to pollute thismost sacred court of the temple, which was the court of the priests, whereinthe temple itself and the altar stood. So that the conjecture of those thatwould interpret that Zacharias, who was slain "between the temple and thoaltar" several months before, I3. iv. ch. v. sect. 4. as if he were shun tbcroby these zealots, is groundless, as I have noted on that place already.