OCR Output ico NOTES ON THE on account os the greater preparation required in its celebration,was called the greater Panathcnaia; and the latter, on account ofits requiring a less apparatus, was denominated thelejfer Panatbe-naia. The ctlebration of them likewise was distinguished by-longer and sliorter periods of time. In the greater Panathenaia,too, the veil of the goddess was carried about, in which, faysProclus, the giants were represented vanquished by the Olym­pian gods. Proclus farther informs us (in Tim. p. 26.) thatthese festivals signified the beautiful order wfcich proceeds intothe world from intellect, and the unconfused distinction of mun­dane contrarieties. But what are we to understand by the veilof the goddess, and the victory obtained over the giants? I an­swer, Her veil is an emblem of that one life or nature of theuniverse, which, as Proclus observes, the goddess weaves, by thoseintellectual vital powers which her essence contains: and the bat­tle of the giants against the Olympian gods, signifies the oppo­sition between the last demiurgic powers of the universe (orthose powers which partially fabricate and proximately presideover mundane natures), and such as are first. But Minerva issaid to have vanquished the giants, because she rules over theseultimate artificers of things, by her unifying powers, Page 85. Ar 'ifle and Call\Jle.~\ That is, hejl and miji beautiful.It appears to me, that Diana was thus denominated from herintimate alliance with Apollo: for Proclus, in his MSS. Scholiaon the Cratylus, informs us that there is a great correspondencebetween the Coric* or virginal series, and the Apolloniacal."For (fays he) the former is the unity of the middle triad ofrulers, i. e. of the supermundane gods, and emits from herselfvivisic powers: but the latter converts the solar principles to oneunion: and the solar principles are allotted a subsistence imme- * Thisseries constitutes the vivisic triad of supermundane gods, and con­sists of Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva; or, according Co the Chaldasantheologists, of Hecate, Soul, and Virtue, which are only different namesof the fame powers. > diatelj