OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. other. The cruel fate of Caracalla, though her good sense must Jj^JkgJjrhave lone taught her to expect: it, awakened the feelings of a mother simusand . . ... A*on:nus. and of an empress. Notwithstanding the respectful civility ex­pressed by the usurper towards the widow of Severus, flie descendedwith a painful struggle into the condition of a subject, and soonwithdrew herself by a voluntary death from the anxious and humi­liating dependence 4\ Julia Mæsa, her sister, was ordered to leavethe court and Antioch. She retired to Emesa with an immense for­tune, the fruit of twenty years favour, accompanied by her twodaughters, Soæmias and Mamæa, each of whom was a widow, andeach had an only son. Bassianus, for that was the name of the sonof Soæmias, was consecrated to the honourable ministry of highpriest of the Sun; and this holy vocation, embraced either fromprudence or superstition, contributed to raise the Syrian youth tothe empire of Rome. A numerous body of troops was stationed atEmesa; and as the severe discipline of Macrinus had constrainedthem to pass the winter encamped, they were eager to reyenge thecruelty of such unaccustomed hardships* The soldiers, who resortedin crowds to the temple of the Sun, beheld with veneration anddelight the elegant dress and figure of the young pontiff: they re­cognised, or they thought that they recognised, the features of Cara­calla, whose memory they,now adored^ The artful Mæsa saw andcherished their rising partiality, and readily sacrificing her daugh­ter's reputation to the fortune of her grandson, flie insinuated thatBassianus was the natural son of their murdered sovereign. Thesums distributed by her emissaries with a lavish hand, silenced everyobjection, and the profusion sufficiently- proved the affinity, or atleast the resemblance, of Bassianus with, the great original.. Theyoung Antoninus (for he assumed and polluted that respectablename) was declares emperor by the troops of Emesa, asserted his a. D. 218.hereditary right, and called aloud on the armies to follow the stand- May l6.Vol. I. 'U '' '' ard