OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 3 beian garb, their grosser apprehensions were incapableof discerning their God, who had studiously disguisedhis celestial character under the name and person of amortal.1 The familiar companions of Jesus of Nazarethconversed with their friend and countryman, who, inall the actions of rational and animal life, appeared ofthe same species with themselves. His progress frominfancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regu­lar increase in stature and wisdom; and, after a pain­ful agony of mind and body, he expired on the cross.He lived and died for the service of mankind; but thelife and death of Socrates had likewise been devoted tothe cause of religion and justice; and although the Stoicor the hero may disdain the humble virtues of Jesus, thetears which he shed over his friend and country may beesteemed the purest evidence of his humanity. Themiracles of the gospel could not astonish a people whoheld, with intrepid faith, the more splendid prodigies ofthe Mosaic law. The prophets of ancient days had cureddiseases, raised the dead, divided the sea, stopped thesun, and ascended to heaven in a fiery chariot. Andthe metaphorical style of the Hebrews might ascribe toa saint and martyr, the adoptive title of SON OF GOD.Yet in the insufficient creed of the Nazarenes His Lirth and eieva- and the Ebionites, a distinction is faintly noticedbetween theheretics, who confounded thegenera-tion of Christ in the common order of nature, and theless guilty schismatics, who revered the virginity of hismother, and excluded the aid of an earthly father. Theincredulity of the former was countenanced by the visi­ble circumstances of his birth, the legal marriage of hisreputed parents, Joseph and Mary, and his lineal claimto the kingdom of David and the inheritance of Judah.But the secret and authentic history has been recordedin several copies of the Gospel according to St. Mat- *Chry»08tom Damage, (Hist, des Juifs,torn. 5. c. 9. p. 183.) and Athanasius(Petav. Dogmat, Theotog. torn. 5. lib. 1 c. 2. p. 3.) are obliged to confess that thedivinity of Christ is rarely mentioned by himself or his apostles. B 2