OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 417 drian Jews is well known; for this distribution of wheat wasno otherwise omitted with regard to the Jews than it was withregard to the other inhabitants of Alexandria. But they stillwere desirous to preserve what the kings had formerly in­trusted to their care, I mean the custody of the river; nordid those kings think them unworthy of having the entirecustody thereof upon all occasions. 6. But, besides this Apion objects to us thus. —" If thoJews," says he, "be citizens of Alexandria, why do they notworship the same gods with the Alexandrians ? ' To whichI give this answer : — Since you arc yourselves Egyptians,why do you fight it out one against another, and have impla­cable wars about your religion ? At this rate, we must notcall you all Egyptians, nor, indeed, in general men, becauseyou breed up with great care beasts of a nature quite contraryto that of men, although the nature of all men seems to beone and the same. Now, if there be such differences inopinion among your Egyptians, why are you surprised thatthose who came to Alexandria from another country, and hadoriginal laws of their own before, should persevere in the ob­servance of those laws ? But still he charges us with beingthe authors of sedition : which accusation, if it be a just one,why is it not laid against us all, since we are known to be allof one mind ? Moreover, those that search into such matterswill soon discover, that the authors of sedition have been suchcitizens of Alexandria as Apion is; for while they were theGrecians and Macedonians who were in possession of thiscity, there was no sedition raised against us, and we werepermitted to observe our ancient solemnities; but when thenumber of the Egyptians therein came to be considerable, thetimes grew confused, and then these seditions brake out stillmore and more, while our people continued uncorrupted.These Egyptians, therefore, were the authors of these troubles,who not having the constancy of Macedonians, nor the pru­dence of Grecians, indulged all of them the evil manners ofEgyptians, and continued their ancient hatred against us;for what is here so presumptuously charged upon us, is owingto the differences that are amongst themselves; while imny