OCR Output 6 DEDICATION. what obscure, because he was anxious that his works shouldplease his friends, the Veranioli and the Fabulli. At the sametime this my importunity may effect, what you complained of mynot having done in another too forward epistle of mine; it willput upon record, and let all the world know, on what terms ofequality you live with us. You, who have had the honour of atriumph, and of the censorship, have been six times consul, andhave shared in the tribunate; and, what is still more honourable,whilst you held them in conjunction with your father, you havepresided over the equestrian order, and have been the prefect ofthe praetorians: 5 all this you have done for the service of therepublic, and at the same time, have regarded me as a fellow-soldier and a messmate. Nor has the extent of your prosperity produced any change inyou, except that it has given you the power of doing good to theutmost of your wishes. And whilst all these circumstancesincrease the veneration which other persons feel for you, withrespect to myself, they have made me so bold as to wish tobecome more familiar. You must, therefore, place this to yourown account, and blame yourself for any fault of this kind that Imay commit. But although I have laid aside my blushes,6 Ihave not gained my object; for you still awe me, and keep me ata distance, by the majesty of your understanding. In no one doesthe force of eloquence and of tribunitian oratory blaze out morepowerfully! With what glowing language do you thunder forththe praises of your father! How dearly do you love your brother!How admirable is your talent for poetry! What a fertility ofgenius do you possess, so as to enable you to imitate your bro­ther! But who is there that is bold enough to form an estimate onthese points, if he is to be judged by you, and more especially, ifyou are challenged to do so? For the case of those who merelypublish their works is very different from that of those whoexpressly dedicate them to you. In the former case I might say, 5 The narrative of Suetonius may serve to illustrate the observation ofPliny; "Triumphavit (Titus) cum patre, censuramque gessit una. Eidemcollega et in tribunicia potestate, et in septem consularibus fuit. Recep-taque ad se prope omnium officiorum cura, cum patris nomine et epistolasipse dictaret, et edicta conscriberet, orationesque in Senatu recitaret etiamquaestoris vice, prefecturam quoque prtetorii suscepit, nunquam ad id tempus,nisi ab Equite Romano, administratum:" Valpy's ed. p. 946. 6 " Perfricui faciem;" see note in Valpy, p. 176.