OCR Output CHAP. LI. 451 son of Nassir, and Theodemir, prince of the Goths. Inthe name of the most merciful God, Abdelaziz makespeace on these conditions: that Theodemir shall not bedisturbed in his principality: nor any injury be offeredto the life or property, the wives and children, the reli­gion and temples, of the Christians: that Theodemirshall freely deliver his seven cities, Orihuela, Valentola,Alicant, Mola, Vacasora, Bigerra (now Bejar), Ora (orOpta), and Lorca: that he shall not assist or entertainthe enemies of the caliph, but shall faithfully communi­cate his knowledge of their hostile designs : that himself,and each of the Gothic nobles, shall annually pay onepiece of gold, four measures of wheat, as many of bar­ley, with a certain proportion of honey, oil, and vinegar;and that each of their vassals shall be taxed at one moietyof the said imposition. Given the fourth of Regeb, inthe year of the Hegira ninety-four, and subscribed withthe names of four Mussulman witnesses. "b Theodemirand his subjects were treated with uncommon lenity:but the rate of tribute appears to have fluctuated from atenth to a fifth, according to the submission or obstinacyof the Christians.0 In this revolution, many partial ca­lamities were inflicted by the carnal or religious passionsof the enthusiasts; some churches were profaned by thenew worship; some relics or images were confoundedwith idols; the rebels were put to the sword; and onetown (an obscure place between Cordova and Seville)was rased to its foundations. Yet if we compare the in­vasion of Spain by the Goths, or its recovery by the 11 See the treaty in Arabic and Latin, in the Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana, torn.2. p. 105,106. It is signed the 4th of the month of Regeb, A. H. 94, the 5th ofApril, A. D. 713; a date which seems to prolong the resistance of Theodemir andthe government of Musa. c From the history of Sandoval, p. 87. Fleury (Kist. Eccles. torn. 9.p. 261.) hasgiven the substance of another treaty concluded A. A'.. C. 781, A.D.784, betweenan Arabian chief, and the Goths and Romans, of the territory of Conimbra in Por­tugal. The tax of the churches is filed at twenty-fire pounds of gold; of the mona­steries, fifty; of the cathedrals, one hundred: the Christians are judged by theircount, but in capital cases he must consult the alcaide. The church-doors mustbe shut, and they must respect the name of Mahomet. I have not the originalbefore me; it would confirm or destroy a dark suspicion, that the piece had beenforged to introduce the immunity of a neighbouring convent. .' 2 G 2