OCR Output CO ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. Julia [Caesar's wife], Jatnnia, all its toparchy, and Phasaelis inthe plain, and Archelais, where is a great plantation of palm-trees, and their fruit is excellent in its kind. After him cameAnnius Rufus, under whom died Caesar, the second emperor ofthe Romans, the duration of whose reign was fifty-seven years,besides six months and two days, (of which time Antonius ruledtogether with him fourteen years ; but the duration of his lifewas seventy. seven years) ; upon whose death Tiberius Nero,his wife Julia's son, succeeded. He was now the third emperor;and he sent Valerius Gratus to be procurator of Judea, and tosucceed Annius Rufus. This man deprived Annus of the high-priesthood, and appointed Ismael, the son of Phabi, to be high-priest. He also deprived him in a little time, and ordained Elea-zar, the son of Ananus who had been high-priest before, to behigh-priest; which office, when he had held for a year, Gratusdeprived him of it, and gave the high-priesthood to Simon, theson of Camithus; and, when he had possessed that dignity nolonger than a year, Joseph Caiaphas was made his successor.When Gratus had done those things, he went back to Rome,after he had tarried in Judea eleven years, when Pontius Pilatecame as his successor^ ' 3. And now Herod the tetrarch, who was in great favou^with Tiberius, built a city of the same name with him, and call­ed it Tiberias. He built it in the best part of Galilee, at the lakeof Gennesareth. There are warm baths at a little distance fromit, in a village named E-mmaus. Strangers came and inhabitedthis city ; a great number of the inhabitants %vere Galileans also jand many were necessitated by Herod to come thither out of thecountry belonging to him, and were by force compelled to be itsinhabitants ; some of them were persons of condition. He alsoadmitted poor people, such as those that were collected from allparts, to dwell in it. Nay, some of them were not quite free­men ; and these he xyas a benefactor to, and made them free ingreat numbers; but obliged them not to forsake the city, bybuilding them very good houses at his own expences, and bygiving them land also ; for he was sensible, that to make thisplace an habitation was to transgress the Jewish ancient laws,because many sepulchres were to be here taken away, in orderto make room for the city Tiberias * ; whereas our laws pro­nounce, that such inhabitants are unclean for seven days f. 4. About * We may here take notice, aswell as in the parallel parts of the hooks Of theWar, B. II, ch. ix. sect. i. that after the death of Herod the Great, and ihe sue-cession of Archelaus, Josephus is very brief in his accounts of Judea, till nearhis own time. I suppose the reason is, that after the large history of N'icolausof Damascus, including the life of Herod, and probably the succession and firstactions of his sons, he had but few good histories of those times before him. "f- Numb. xfc. 11—14.