OCR Output 250 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111.1 Claudius and Genucius, to balance the consular fasces towhich they had been preferred this year, and to Sestius,one of the consuls the preceding year, because he hadbrought that affair before the senate, though his colleaguewas entirely against it. Next to these were named thethree commissioners, who had been sent to Athens, as acompliment due to them for their trouble in executing acommission at such a distance, at the same time it wasthought that men acquainted with foreign laws, would beof some consequence in instituting a body of laws cal­culated for their own meridian. Those who succeededin the list completed the number; but they who werenamed last, were too old, as some say, to oppose, with asufficient degree of resolution, the sentiments of their col­leagues. Appius, by the favour he had acquired among thepeople, had the modelling of their magistracy. For hehad so far new-modelled his temper, that from being themost austere Patrician, who crossed the Plebeians in alltheir claims and pretensions, he suddenly became a veryPoplicola, solely intent upon pleasing the multitude andacquiring their affection. Each of these new magistrates, in his turn, administer­ed justice every tenth day, when he bad the fasces bornebefore him : each of the oilier nine being that day onlyattended by a single officer*. The perfect unanimity that prevailed among them­selves, far from being prejudicial to particulars, whichis too often the case, was attended with the strictest equi­ty, in regard to all the citizens. We shall only men­tion a single anecdote, as an instance of their moderation.By the tenor of their institution, from their judgmentthere could be no appeal: yet when a corpse was detect­ed, and" dug up in the house of P. Sestius, by birth aPatrician, and exposed in the public assembly; in a caseso glaring and atrocious, the decemvir, C. Julius, ap­pointed him a day for his trial; and though he was thelegal judge himself in the cause, yet he appeared as thepublic prosecutor before the people, derogating from hisown authority as decemvir, to add to that of the people. •-. This officer was called Accensus, el acciendo.