OCR Output 12 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. the wont of Spanish insurrectionary armies suddenly melted142. away, he was obliged to return to Lusitania (612). Next141. year (613) Servilianus resumed the offensive, traversed thedistricts on the Baetis and Anas, and then advancing intoLusitania occupied a great many towns. A large num­ber of the insurgents fell into his hands; the leaders—ofwhom there were about 500—were executed; those whohad gone over from Roman ground to the enemy had theirhands cut off; the remaining multitude were sold intoslavery. But on this occasion also the Spanish war provedtrue to its fickle and capricious character. After all thesesuccesses the Roman army was attacked by Viriathus whileit was besieging Erisane, defeated, and driven to a rockwhere it was wholly in the power of the enemy. Viriathus,however, contented himself, like the Samnite general for­merly at the Caudine pass, with concluding a peace withServilianus, in which the community of the Lusitanians wasrecognized as sovereign and Viriathus acknowledged as itsking. The power of the Romans had not increased morethan the national sense of honour had declined; in the capi­tal men were glad to be rid of the irksome war, and thesenate and people ratified the treaty. But Quintus Servi-lius Caepio, the full brother of Servilianus and his successorin office, was far from satisfied with this complaisance; andthe senate was weak enough first to authorize the consulto undertake secret machinations against Viriathus, andthen to view with indulgence at least the. open breach, with­out any palliation, of his pledged word. So Caepio invadedLusitania, and traversed the land as far as the territories ofthe Vettones and Gallaeci; Viriathus declined a conflictwith the superior force, and by dexterous movements evaded140. 139. his antagonist (614). But when in the ensuing year (615)Caepio renewed the attack, and was supported by the army,which had in the mean time become available from the north­ern province, making its appearance under Marcus Popilliusin Lusitania, Viriathus sued for peace on any terms. He wasrequired to give up to the Romans all who had passed overto him from the Roman territory, amongst whom was hisown father-in-law; he did so, and the Romans ordered themto be executed or to have their hands cut off. But this wasnot sufficient; the Romans were not in the habit of an­nouncing to the vanquished all at once their destined fate.His death. One behest after another was issued to the Lusitanians,