OCR Output IB. VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 135 eighty; and, of these, eighty were Cretans. There wereseven hundred Rhodian flingers, and a hundred andtwenty light-armed Megarean exiles. And one horse-transport attended, which carried thirty horsemen. So great an equipment sailed out at first to begin thewar. And, in the train of this equipment, went thirtystorefhips laden with corn, and carrying on-board thebakers, and masons, and carpenters, and all things re­quisite in the works of fortification; and also a hundredsail of small vessels, which necessity demanded to attendthe (hips that carried the stores. A large number alsoof small craft and trading vessels sailed voluntarily incompany with the fleet, for the sake of traffic. Allwhich now, in one collected body, stood away fromCorcyra across the Ionian gulf. The whole armament being got over to cape Japygia,or to Tarentum, as they severally could make the passage,sailed along the coast of Italy, — where not one citywould receive them, would grant them a marker, or suf­fer them to land, barely permitting them to anchor andto water,—though at Tarentum and Locri even that wasdenied them, — till they arrived at Rhegium, a promon­tory of Italy. At Rhegium the whole fleet was nowassembled; and without the city (for an admission intoic•was refused them) they formed an incampment withinthe verge of Diana's temple, where also they were ac­commodated by the Rhtgians with a market. Here, having drawn their vessels on-shore, they laysome time for refreshment; and had a conference withthe Rhegians, in which they pressed them, as they wereof Chalcidic descent, to succour the Leontines who werealso Chakideans. Their answer was, that " they should*' side with neither party, but, whatever measures were** judged expedient by the other Italians, they should"conform to those." The Athenians counsels were nowsolely bent on the affairs of Sicily, in what manner theymight most successfully make their approaches. Theyallo waited for the return of the three vessels from K-4 Hgeita,