OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 409 mankind was protected by the selfish policy of the ex­arch. With her daughter, the heiress of the Lombardthrone, her two lovers, her trusty Gepidae, and, thespoils of the palace of Verona, Rosamond descendedthe Adige and the Po, and was transported by a Greekvessel to the safe harbour of Ravenna. Longinus be­held with delight the charms and the treasures of thewidow of Alboin: her situation and her past conductmight justify the most licentious proposals; and she rea­dily listened to the passion of a minister, who, even inthe decline of the empire, was respected as the equal ofkings. The death of a jealous lover was an easy andgrateful sacrifice, and as Helmichis issued from the bath,he received the deadly potion from the hand of his mis­tress. The taste of the liquor, its speedy operation, andhis experience of the character of Rosamond, convincedhim that he was poisoned: he pointed his dagger to herbreast, compelled her to drain the remainder of the cup,and expired in a few minutes, with the consolation thatshe could not survive to enjoy the fruits of her wicked­ness. The daughter of Alboin and Rosamond, with therichest spoils of the Lombards, was embarked for Con­stantinople; the surprising strength of Peredeus amusedand terrified the imperial court; his blindness and re­venge exhibited an imperfect copy of the adventures ofSampson. By the free suffrage of the nation, in the as- ciepiio,sembly of Pavia, Clepho, one of their noblest chiefs, was ^f*s°elected as the successor of Alboin. Before the end of*- D.573. August. eighteen months, the throne was polluted by a secondmurder; Clepho was stabbed by the hand of a domestic;the regal office was suspended above ten years, duringthe minority of his son Autharis; and Italy was dividedand oppressed by a ducal aristocracy of thirty tyrants/ When the nephew of Justinian ascended the throne, Weaknesshe proclaimed a new era of happiness and glory. The j™s". y See the history of Paul, lib. 2. c. 28—32. I have borrowed some interesting tiuian.eiroumslances from the Liber Ponlificalis of Agnellus, in Script. Rer. Ital. torn. 2.p. 124. Of all chronological gaides, Mnrttori is the safest. VOL. V. 1 E ,