OCR Output KOMA. KOMA. 829 itntcl tlii lut valley m called Vices Loxous,ii *» km from tb« Anonymous of Einsiedlen, whoirism the church of S. Vitalis as situated "inm heft." We find its name recorded in Livyi tt\ tod Valerius Maximus (ii. 5. § 6). Of the■Jut! indent divisions of the Collis Quirinalist * ttiiongin of its name, we hare already spoken: rb* tamer put of this article.Ili> Quirinal abounded in ancient fanes andTfn One of the earliest foundations of thisi «n tbt Temple of Qumni's, erected byu-» to EVnulus after his apotheosis. The firstviiii ootke that we find of it is, however, inr. 4JJ, when Livy (it. 21) records a meeting of • >'itt is it; a fact which shows that it mustnt Urn a considerable building. A new one wasifiifi, probably on the same spot, by L. PupiriusBW,a.c292. (IJt.x. 46; Plin.vii. 60.) Thisrartiit appears to have been burnt in n. c 48, and'd* tot hear of its re-erection till b. c. 15, when;rwai trbuilt it, as recorded in the Momtmentumwmurn, and by Dion Cassius (liv. 19). Vet!t» ,r.«ml between these dates we find it alluded■ all existing (Id. xliii. 45; Cic. ad Alt. xiii.i. »t*nc# we may conclude tliat it had been onlySaJr destroyed. Dion (liv. 19) describes the'rtrarture of Augustus as having 76 columns,*i-^r tbe years which he bad lived. Hence,irrn to hare been the same building as that■rei by Vltrovius (iii. 2, 7) as an example of'H*rng oetattylo$; for that kind of temple had row of columns all round; namely, two rows^ 11 at the front and back ; and, without count -tto eotjtuJe ones of these over again, two rowsII aril at the aides (32 + 44 = 76). This noble!«• ijfemn to have been the same alluded to byEai u tbe resort of the idlers of the vicinity (ix.d Topographers are universally agreed that it>:utai on tie height over 5. V'itaie in the neigh-""i of S. Andrea del Noriziato. (Becker,►* p. J73; Irliclw. Betehr. ill 2, 366; Ca- > Me. p. 185.) There appears to have been • 'iixixni Ql ieihajjs near the Porta Col­li tl« mm interesting traditions respecting thesal Moog to the reign of Noma. One of theftn of that Sabine monarch was situated onafi (Plat, A'sam. 14; Solin. i. 21). where he a citadel, or capitol; and where his*' Tcdlus Hostilins, in pursuance of a vow'■ the Sabine War, repeated, as it were in■^tr. Noma's peculiar institution of the Saltanaf (Liv- i- 27; Dionya. ii. 70). All these > ilaw very clearly the distinction between thec ml Sabine citiee daring the reigns of the-"-mirhs. On the Quirinal, the Saltan prieststin- aocilia were attached to the worship ofHa, aa. in the Romnlean city, they were to« Man (•* Quid de ancilibus vestris, Mars'tiwae Quirine pater (Inqoar)?" Liv. v. 52); !*• pn»t» were called, by way of distinction,tmm, or Collini, from the name of the'" Is kVu Saliorum qnorum cognomen Ago-or/ Varr. L.L. vi. § 14; cf. Dionys. /. c,a. an m, he erroneously speaks of a \6$as«it ■t u tie temple of Quirinns, proceeding in a»7 Arertioo, aa mav be inferred from the ordertri tbf objects are mentioned in the Curiotum.W«a aomewhat differs), stood a Statue of-fai t; and then, after an interval occupied in later times by the baths of Constantine, — the siteof the present Palazzo Rotpigliori.— followed theVeti's Capitolium, or citadel of Numa. WhetherMamnrius was another name for Mamers, the Sabinegod of war, of which, according to Varro (L. L. v.§ 7.1), the Roman namo of Mars watt only a cor­ruption, or whether it was the name of tho reputedmaker of the ancilia (Paul. Diac. p. 131, Mull.),matters but little; the statue is equally connectedwith the ancient Salian rites, and therefore one ofthe most venerable objects in the city. We find aCurl's Maml-ri mentioned in the middle ages inthe neighbourhood of 8. Vitale (Anastas. V. Imoc./. p. 64, Blanch.), which no doubt took its namefrom this statue; whence we may infer that it stoodnear the temple of Qnirinus; since the church of5. Vitale and that of S. Andrea, where the templestood, are close together. We have remarked in the former part of thisarticle that the ancient Capitol of Kutna probablystood on the height of MagnanapoH. It contained,like the Palatine before it and the Capitoline sub­sequently, a temple to the three divinities, Jupiter,Juno, and Minerva, as we learn from Varro: " Clivosproximus a Flora susus versus Capitolium vettis,quod ibi sacellum Jovis, Junonis, Minervae; et idantiquius quam aedis, quae in Capitolio facta" (L. L.v. § 158). Its site may be determined by that ofanother ancient sanctuary, the Temple of Flora.In the order of the Curiotum and Sotiiia thattemple stands between the Capitolium Vetus andthe temple (or temples) of Salus and Serapis. Thetemple of Salus must undoubtedly have beensituated near the Porta Salutaris, which, as we havebefore remarked, took its name from that sanctuary;and we must consequently seek for the temple ofFlora on the W. side of the Quirinal, or that whichfaced towards the Campus Martius. That it stoodon this side is confirmed by what Martial saysrespecting the situation of his house, which, as welearn from one of his epigrams, lay near the templeof Flora (v. 22. 2):— "Sed Tiburtinac sum proximus accola pilaeQua videt antiquum rustics Flora Jovem." (Cf. vi. 27.) From which we also leam that thetemple of Flora could not have been very far fromthat of Jupiter in Xuma's Capitol; as indeed likewiseappears from the passage of Varro before quoted,with the addition that it must hare lain on a lowerpart of the hill. But as Martial's house is thusshown to have been near the temple of Flora, so alsothat it was on the W. side of the hill appears fromanother epigram (i. 108. 2):— "At mea Vipsanas spectant coenacnla laurusFactus in hac ego sum jam regione senexv* It can hardly be doubted that this passage containsan allusion to some laurel trees growing near thePorticus Vipsania. erected, as will appear in a sub­sequent section, near the Via Lata by Agrippa, whosefamily name was Vipsanius. This pnrtico is plainlyalluded to in another passage of Martial (iv. 18),under the name of Vipsaniae Coluninae. There isnothing surprising in Martial's indicating a localityby certain trees. In ancient Rome trees were notedobjects, and claimed a considerable share of publicattention, as we hare already seen with regard toseveral that grew in or about the forum. Twolaurel trees grew before the imperial palace (Tert.ApoL 35); and in front of the temple of Quirinua