OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 75 unstnined with civil blood, and undisturbed by revolutions. Theernperor was elected by the authority of the senate and the consentos the soldiers *\ The legions respected their oath of fidelity, andit requires a minute inspection of the Roman annals to discoverthree inconsiderable rebellions, which were all suppressed in a fewmonths, and without even the hazard of a battle 5'. In elective monarchies, the vacancy of the throne is a moment Designation .. . _ r of a successor. big with danger and mischief. The Roman emperors desirous tospare the legions thai interval of suspense, and the temptation of anirregular choice, invested their designed successor with so large a shareof present power, as should enable him, after their decease, toassume the remainder, without suffering the empire to perceive thechange of masters. Thus Augustus, after all his fairer prospects Of Tiberius,had been snatched from him by untimely deaths, rested his lasthopes on Tiberius, obtained for his adopted son the censorial andtribunitian powers, and dictated a law, by which the future princewas invested with an authority equal to his own, over the provincesand the armies 5\ Thus Vespasian subdued the generous mind of Of Titus,his eldest son. Titus was adored by the eastern legions, which,under his command, had just finished the conquest of Judæa. Hispower was dreaded, and, as his virtues were clouded by the intem­perance of youth, his designs were suspected. Instead of listeningto such unworthy suspicions, the prudent monarch associated Titusto the full powers of the Imperial dignity; and the grateful son everapproved himself the humble and faithful minister of so indul­gent a father The good sense of Vespasian engaged him indeed to embrace every The race ofmeasure that might confirm his recent and precarious elevation, and the^a-The military oath, and the fidelity of the troops, had been conse- vian family'crated by the habits of an hundred years, to the name and familyof the Cæsars: and although that family had been continued onlyby the fictitious rite of adoption, they still revered, in the person L 2 of