OCR Output 236 NOTES ON THE / Page 61. ^Theseus, when he departed to flay the Minotaur"] Theexplanation given by the moderns of the Minotaur, and the otherparts of the fable to which it belongs, is as absurd and foreignfrom the truth, as any of their solutions of ancient fables. "Ishall make it appear (fays the Abbe Banier* with all the lav/'less levity of a Frenchman, and in the true spirit of a Catholicdivine) that the Minotaur, with Pafipbac, and the rest of thatfable, contain nothing but an intrigue of the queen os Cretewith a captain named Taurus; ;. d the :-rtiLi.c of Dædalus onlya fly confident." And in this impudent manner he explainsthe most celebrated lables of antiquity. It is true indeed, thatmy own countrymen are at present unacquainted with the divinewisdom of the ancients; but I do not know of any English writerthat has attempted to explain the Grecian fables in a mani er soimpertinenti trifl'ng, and absurd. Surely every thinking mindmust unite with me in acknowledging, that if the ancients intend­ed to conceal in their fables nothing more than what Banier pre­sents us with, their fables are far more puerile than the riddlescomposed by the ingenious Mr. Newbery for children. LordBacon, though far from penetrating the profound meaning ofthe ancients in these fables, saw enough to be convinced that theywere replete with the highest wisdom of which he had any con­ception; and has done all in attempting to unfold them thatgreat genius without the assistance ot genuine philosophy is able toeffect, But the most piercing sagacity, the most brilliant wit, andthe most exquisite subtilty of thought, without this assistance, arehere of no avail. It is indeed easy for ingenious men to give an explanation ofan ancient fable, which to the superficial observer shall appear tobe the precise meaning which its inventor designed to convey,though it be in reality very far from the truth. This may beeasily accounted for by considering, that all fables are images of* Vol. i. of the translation of his Mythology, p. 29. truth?,