OCR Output 156 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. from his presence, impressed with the warmest sen-XVI' timents of gratitude and admiration *.Makes three It was not enough for Julian to have delivered thebey™dUthe provinces of Gaul from the Barbarians of Germany.ad%57 ^e asP*re^ t0 emulate the glory of the first and most358,359. illustrious of the emperors; after whose example hecomposed his own commentaries of the Gallic war.Caesar has related, with conscious pride, the mannerin which he twice passed the Rhine. Julian couldboast, that before he assumed the title of Augustus,he had carried the Roman eagles beyond that greatriver in three successful expeditions t. The con­sternation of the Germans, after the battle of Stras-burgh, encouraged him to the first attempt; and thereluctance of the troops soon yielded to the persua­sive eloquence of a leader, who shared the fatiguesand dangers which he imposed on the meanest of thesoldiers. The villages on either side of the Meyn,which were plentifully stored with corn and cattle,felt the ravages of an invading army. The principalhouses, constructed with some imitation of Romanelegance, were consumed by the flames; and theCaesar boldly advanced about ten miles, till his pro­gress was stopped by a dark and impenetrable forest,undermined by subterraneous passages, which threat­ened, with secret snares and ambush, every step ofthe assailant. The ground was already covered withsnow; and Julian, after repairing an ancient castlewhich had been erected by Trajan, granted a truceof ten months to the submissive Barbarians. At theexpiration of the truce, Julian undertook a secondexpedition beyond the Rhine, to humble the prideof Surmar and Hortaire, two of the kings of the * This interesting story, which Zosimus has abridged, is related by Eunapius(in Excerpt , Legationum, p. 15, 16, 17.) with all the amplifications of Grecianrhetoric: but the silence of Libanius, of Ammianus, and of Julian himself, ren­ders the truth of it extremely suspicious. f See Ammian. xvii. 1. 10. xviii. 2. and Zosim. 1. iii. p. 144. Julian. adS. P. Q. Athen. p. 280.