OCR Output 508 ROMAN EMPIRE. emir. / have brought you to a land flowing with milkand honey. Here is your true country; repose fromyour toils, and forget the barren place of your nativity.—And our wives and children ?—Your beauteous captiveswill supply the place of your wives, and in their embracesyou will soon become the fathers of a new progeny. Thefirst habitation was their camp, with a ditch and ram­part, in the bay of Suda; but an apostate monk ledthem to a more desirable position in the eastern parts;and the name of Candax, their fortress and colony, hasbeen extended to the whole island, under the corruptand modern appellation ofCandia. The hundred citiesof the age of Minos were diminished to thirty; and ofthese, only one, most probably Cydonia, had courage toretain the substance of freedom and the profession ofChristianity. The Saracens of Crete soon repaired theloss of their navy; and the timbers of mount Ida werelaunched into the main. During a hostile period of onehundred and thirty-eight years, the princes of Constan­tinople attacked these licentious corsairs with fruitlesscurses and ineffectual anns. and of The loss of Sicily" was occasioned by an actSicUy, Of superstitious rigour. An amorous youth,827—878. who had stolen a nun from her cloister, was sen­tenced by the emperor to the amputation of his tongue.Euphemius appealed to the reason and policy of theSaracens of Africa; and soon returned with the imperialpurple, a fleet of one hundred ships, and an army ofseven hundred horse and ten thousand foot. They land­ed at Mazara near the ruins of the ancient Selinus; butafter some partial victories, Syracuse" was delivered by "Art:; (says the continuator of Theophanes, lib. 2. p. 61.) Ji twra. a-n^trrartn&t orXarDWTfpor ft TOTI y£*if,I(cra ©foywwTw jtai Kf 2C1'£*? ^-'J'a *f*m. This historyof the loss of Sicily is no longer extant. Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, torn. 7. p. 7.19.21, &c.) has added some circumstances from the Italian chronicles. 0 The splendid and interesting tragedy of Tancredc would adapt itself much betterto this epoch, than to the date (A. D. 1005.) which Voltaire himself has chosen.But I must gently reproach the poet, for infusing into the Greek subjects the spiritof modem knights and ancient republicans.