OCR Output 236 MACEDONIA. MACEDONIA. like Actinia, after the destruction of Corintli, whichoccurred two years afterwards, B.C. 146. From thattime to the reign of Augustus the Iiouuns had thetroublesome duty of defending Macedonia, auainst thepeople of Illyricum and Thrace; during that period,they established culonies at Philippi, Pella, Stobi, andDium. At the division of the provinces, Macedonia fell tothe senate (Dion Cass. liii. 12 j Strab. xvii. p. 840).Tiberius, united the provinces of Achaia and Mace­donia to the imperial government of Moesia, in orderto deliver tliein from the weight of the proconsularadministration (lac. Ann. 176—80, v. 10), and thiscontinued till the time of Claudius (Suet. Claud. 25;Dion Cass. lx. 24). Afterwards it was again undera " propraetor," with the title "proconsul" (Orelli,Inacr. n. 1170 (Vespasian); n. 3851 (Caracalla),while mention often occurs of "legate" (Orelli,n. 3658) and " quaestores" (Orelli, nn. 822, 3144).Thcssalonica, the most populous city in Macedonia,was the scat of government, and virtually the capitalof Greece and Illyricum, as well as of Macedonia.Under Constantine, Macedonia, was one of the twogovernment* of the praefecture of Illyricum, andconsisted of six provinces, Achaea, Macedonia, Crete,Thcssaly, Old Epirus, and New Epirus (Marquardt,t'» Becker. Horn. AUertJiiim, vol. Hi. pt. i. pp. 115—119). The ravages indicted by the northern na­tions on the frontier provinces were so continual thatthe inhabitants of Thrace and Macedonia were greatlydiminished, the uncultivated plains were traversedby armed bands of Sclavonians, who gradually settledin great numbers in Macedonia, while many moun­tainous districts, and most of the fortified places stillremained in the pieisession of the Greeks, who weredriven into the Chalcidic peninsula, or into the lowgrounds near the sea, where the marshes and riverswhich intersect them, offered means of resistance;but the existence of the ancient race may be said toterminate with the reign of Herarlius. (Comp. Scha-farik, Slat: Alt. vol. ii. pp. 153—164.) The em­perors of Constantinople attempted to remedy thedepopulation of their empire by transporting Asiaticcolonies. Thus a colony of Persians was establishedon the banks of the Axius ( Vardar) as early as thereign of Theophilus, A. I). 829—842, and it longcontinued to furnish recruits for a cohort of the im-periaj guard, which bore the name of Vardariots. InA.D. 1065 a colony of Uzes was settled in Mace­donia, whose chiefs rose to the rank of senators, andfilled high ofhVial situations at Constantinople (Scy-Htz. ad cale. Ceilreni, p. 868; Zonar. vol. ii. p. 273;Ann.Comn. p. 195). Amu Coinnena (pp. 109, 315)mentions col -nies of Turks established near Achridals-fore the reign of her father (a. i>. 1081). Theseand other nations were often included under the ge­neral name of Turks, and ilnli<ed most of them weredescended from Turkish tribes. (Finlay, MediaevalGreecr, p. 31.) IV. J'tiysical and Comparative Geography. The large space of country, which lies to the N.of the Cambunian chain, is in great part mountainous,occupied by lateral ridgca or elevatimis, which con­nect themselves with the main line of Scanlus. Italso comprises three wide alluvial basins, or plainswhich are of great extent, and well adapted tocultivation; the northernmost of the three, containsthe sources and early course of the Axius, now theplain of TetUieo vr JCaltandele: the second is thatof Bilolia, coinciding to a great extent, with that of ancient Pelagonia, wherein the Erigon flows towardsthe Axius; and the larger and more undulatingbasin of Grerend and Anaieltizn, containing lb*Upper Ilaliacmon with its confluent streams.These plains, though of high level above the sea. areyet very fertile, each generally bounded by mountain*,which rise precipitously to an alpine height, a:>deach leaving only one cleft for drainage by a singleriver, the Axius, the Erigon, and the llalijum «respectively. The fat rich land to the E. of I'inJctand Scanlus is described as forming a marked iim-trust with the light calcareous soil of the Albanianplains and valleys on the \V. side (comp Grote, 11 uLof Greece, exxv.). Upper Macedonia was divide,] into Eumeia,Eokimea, Orestis and Lynckstih; of these sub­divisions, Elimeia comprehended the modern districtsof Grevend, Verija, and Tjertembd; Eordaea thus*of Budjd, Sarigkiul, and 'Ontrovo; Orestis those ofGrdmuta, Aruuelitza, and Uraturia ; and LyncestisFilirina, and all the S. part of the basin of th*Erigon. These seem to have been all the districtswhich properly belonged to Upper Macedonia, tJstcountry to the N. as far as Illyricum to the W. andThrace to the E. constituting Pakoma, a part ofwhich (probably on the Upper Axius) was a separatekingdom as late as the reign of Cassander (Diod.xx. 19),but which in its widest sense was the greatbelt of interior country which covered on the N. andNE. both Upper and Lower Macedonia; the lattercontaining the maritime and central provinces, whichwere the earliest acquisition of the kings, namely,PiF.rtiA, Bottiakis, Ematiiia and Mtodoxia. Pieria, or the district of Katerina, forms the »1 |«of the range of mountains of which Olympus is thehighest peak, and is separated from Magnesia onthe S. by the Peneius (Salamarria). The realEmathin is in the interior of Macedonia, and did notin its proper sense extend towards the sea, from whiiliit is separated by Pieria and part of the anririitBottiaeis. Mygdonia comprehended the plainsaround SuUmild, together with the valleys of Klitt'iand Bejikia. extending westward to the Axios, an-iincluding the lake Balbe to the E The nai«CiiALCiniCK is applied to the whole of the ^r.-stpeninsula lying to the S. of the ridge U MlKhortidtzi. An account of these subdivisions will be foondunder their different heads, with a list of the townsbelonging to each. Macedonia was traversed by the great mifitarrroad — the Via Eonatia; this route lias beenalready described [Vol. II. p. 36] as far as Hera-cleia Lyncestis, the first town on the confine* ofIllyricum; pursuing it from that point, the followingare the stations up to Ampbipohs, where it enteredThrace, properly so called: — Heracleia. Cellae - - 'Ottroro. Edi*>a - - Vodhmd. Pella - . AtiUiri. Mutatio Gephyra - Bridge oftie Vardhiri. Thessnlonica - - SnbmiLL Melissurgis - - Melijturgus. Apollonia - - Pollina. Amphipolia - - A'eoHJioirio. From the Via Egnatia several roads bran, bed off !»the N. and S., the latter leading to tlie S prtivinre*of Macedonia and to Thessaly; the tinner inioPaeouia, Dardania, Moeaia, and as far as tuoDanube.