OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 151 the brothers, was endowed by nature with the choicestgifts both of mind and body: they were cultivated by aliberal education, and exercised in the school of obedi足ence and adversity. The youth was dismissed from theperils of the Turkish war, by the paternal care of theemperor Romanus; but the mother of the Comneni,with her aspiring race, was accused of treason, and ba足nished, by the sons of Ducas, to an island in the Pro-pontis. The two brothers soon emerged into favour andaction, fought by each other's side against the rebels andbarbarians, and adhered to the emperor Michael, till hewas deserted by the world and by himself. In his firstinterview with Botaniates, Prince (said Alexius, witha noble frankness), my duty rendered me your enemy;the decrees of God and of the people have made meyour subject. Judge of my future loyalty by my pastopposition. The successor of Michael entertained himwith esteem and confidence: his valour was employedagainst three rebels, who disturbed the peace of the em足peror, or at least of the emperors. Ursel, Bryennius,and Basilacius, were formidable by their numerous forcesand military fame: they were successively vanquishedin the field, arid led in chains to the foot of the throne;and whatever treatment they might receive from a timidand cruel court, they applauded the clemency, as well asthe courage, of their conqueror. But the loyalty of theComneni was soon tainted by fear and suspicion; nor isit easy to settle between a subject and a despot, the debtof gratitude, which the former is tempted to claim by arevolt, and the latter to discharge by an executioner.The refusal of Alexius to march against a fourth rebel,the husband of his sister, destroyed the merit or memoryof his past services: the favourites of Botaniates pro足voked the ambition which they apprehended and accused;and the retreat of the two brothers might be justified bythe defence of their life or liberty. The women of thefamily were deposited in a sanctuary, respected by ty-