OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. £33 before us whatsoever they had plundered; and when a greatmany spoils were brought together, I restored to every one ofTiberias what they claimed to be their own. 65. And now I am come to this part of my narration, I havea mind to say a few things to Justus, who hath himself writtenan history concerning these affairs, as also to others who professto write history, but have little regard to truth, and are notafraid, either out of ill-will or good-will to some persons, to re­late falsehoods. These men do, like those who compose forgeddeeds and conveyances ; and because they are not brought to thelike punishment with them, they have no regard to truth. When,therefore, Justus undertook to write about these facts, and aboutthe- Jewish war, that he might appear to have been an industriousman, he falsified in what he related about me, and could not speaktruth even about his own country ; whence it is, that being be­lied by him, I am under a necessity to make my defence ; and soI shall say what I have concealed till now. And let no one won­der that I have not told the world these things a great while ago.For although it be necessary for an historian to write the truth,yet is such an one not bound severely to animadvert on the wick­edness of certain men ; not out of any favour to them, but outof an author's own moderation. How, then, comes rt to pass,O Justus ! thou most sagacious of writers, (that I may addressmyself to him as if he were here present), for so thou boastestof.thyself, that 1 and the Galileans have been the authors of thatsedition which thy country engaged in both against the Romansand against the king [Agrippa junior] ? For before ever I wasappointed governor of Galilee by the community of Jerusalem,both thou and all the people of Tiberias had not only taken uparms, but had made war with Dccapolisof Syria. Accordingly,thou hadst ordered their villages to be burnt, and a domestic ser­vant of thine fell in the battle. Nor is it I only who say this ;but so it is written in the commentaries of Vespasian the empe­ror, as also how the inhabitants of Decapolis came clamouringto Vespasian at Ptolemais, and desired that thou, who wast theauthor [of that war], mightest be brought to punishment. Andthou hadst certainly been punished at the command of Vespasian,had not king Agrippa, who had power given him to have theeput to death, at the earnest entreaty of his sister Bernice, chan­ged the punishment from death into a long imprisonment.Thy political administration of affairs afterward do also clearlydiscover both thy other behaviour in life, and that thou wast theoccasion of thy country's revolt from the'Romans ; plain signsof which I shall produce presently. 1 have also a mind to saya few things to the rest of the people of Tiberias on thy account,Irt.FoL. HI. " G g » and