OCR Output 400 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. simply undertook to defray the military expenses from theircoffers. But even of this military budget considerable itemswere devolved on the communities—such as the expense ofmaking and maintaining the non-Italian military roads, thecosts of the fleets in the non-Italian seas, nay even in greatpart the outlay for the army, inasmuch as the forces of theclient-states as well as those of the subjects were regularlyliable to serve at the expense of their communities withintheir province, and began to be employed with increasingfrequency even beyond it—Thracians in Africa, Africans iuItaly, and so on—at the discretion of the Romans (P. 200).If the provinces only and not Italy paid direct taxes to thegovernment, this was equitable in a financial, if not in a,political, aspect so long as Italy alone bore the burdens andexpense of the military system; but from the time thatthis system was abandoned, the provincials were, in a financialpoint of view, decidedly overburdened.Extortions. Lastly we must not forget the great chapter of injustice,by which in manifold ways the Roman magistrates andfarmers of the revenue augmented the burden of taxationon the provinces. Every present which the governortook might be treated legally as an exaction, and even hisright of purchase might be restricted by law; neverthelessthe exercise of his public functions offered to him, if he wasdisposed to do wrong, ample pretexts for doing so. Thequartering of the troops; the free lodging of the magistratesand of the host of adjutants of senatorial or equestrianrank, of clerks, lictors, heralds, physicians, and priests; theright which the messengers of the state had to be forwardedfree of cost; the approval of, and providing transport for, thesupplies payable in kind; above all the forced sales and therequisitions — gave all magistrates opportunity to bringhome princely fortunes from the provinces. And the plun­dering became daily more general, the more that the controlof the government appeared to be worthless and that ofthe capitalist-courts to be dangerous in reality to the uprightmagistrate alone. The institution of a standing commissionregarding the exactions of magistrates in the provinces, oc­casioned by the frequency of complaints as to such cases, in149. 605 (P. 73), and the laws as to extortion following eachother so rapidly and constantly augmenting its penalties,show the daily increasing height of the evil, as the Nilometershows the rise of the flood. * >