OCR Output an. 1582.] 69 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. maidens, and drove them away, that theymight have the command of the waters them­selves. Moses thought it would be a terriblereproach upon him it" he should overlook thisuujust oppression, and should suffer the vio­lence of the men to prevail over the right ofthe maidens, he therefore drove away themen, who had a mind to more than theirshare, and afforded a proper assistance to thewomen, who, when they had received such abenefit, came to their father, and told himhow they had been affronted by the shep­herds, and assisted by a stranger, and in-treated that he would not let this generousaction go without a reward. Now the fathertook it well from his daughters that they wereso desirous to remunerate their benefactor,and bid them bring Moses into his presence,that he might be rewarded as he deserved.And when Moses came, he told him whattestimony his daughters bare to him that hehad assisted them; and that, as he admiredhim for his virtue, he said, that Moses had"bestowed such assistance on persons not in­sensible of benefits, but where they were bothable and willing to return the kindness, andeven to exceed the measure of his generosity:so he made him his son, and gave him one ofhis daughters in marriage, and appointed himto be the guardian and superintendent overhis cattle, for of old all the wealth of the bar­barians was in their cattle. CHAP. XII OF THE BURNING BUSH AND THE ROD OF MOSES. WHEN Moses had obtained this favourof Jethro* (for that was one of thenames of Raguel,) he stayed there, and fedhis flocks;f but some time afterward, takinghis station at the mountain called Sinai, hedrove his flocks thither to feed them. Nowthis is the highest of all the mountains there­abouts, and the best for pasturage, the herb­age being good: and it had not been beforefed upon, because of the opinion men had thatCod dwelt there, the shepherds not daring toascend up to it: and here it Was that a won­derful prodigy appeared to Moses: for a fireJ * Jetheajacus, in the Greek of Josephus} Exod. iii. 1. fed upon a thorn bush; yet did the greenleaves and flowers remain untouched, andthe fire did not consume the fruit branches,although the flame was great and fierce. Mo­ses was affrighted at this strange sight; buthe was still more astonished when the fireuttered a voice, and called to him by name,and spake words to him; by which it signi­fied how bold he had been in venturing tocome into a place whither no man had evercome before, because the place was divine;and advised him to remove a great way fromthe flame, and to be contented with what hehad seen; for, though he were himself a goodman, and the offspring of great men, he shouldnot pry any farther; and he foretold to himthat he should have glory and honour amongmen, by the blessing of God upon him. Healso commanded him to go with confidenceto Egypt, in order to his being the commanderand conductor of the body of the Hebrews,and to his delivering his own people from theinjuries they suffered there. "For," said God,"they shall inhabit this happy land, whichyour forefather Abraham inhabited, and shallhave the enjoyment of all sorts of good things;and thou, by thy prudence, shalt guide themto those good things." But he still enjoinedhim, when he had brought the Hebrews outof the land of Egypt, to come to that place,and offer sacrifice of thanksgiving there. Suchwere the divine oracles which were deliveredout of the fire. Moses was astonished at what he saw, andmuch more at what he heard; and he said,"I think it would be an instance of too greatmadness, O Lord, for one of that regard Ibear to thee, to distrust thy power, since Imyself adore it, and know that it has beenmade manifest to my progenitors; but I amstill in doubt how I, who am a private man,and one of no abilities, should either persuademy countrymen to leave the country they nowinhabit, and to follow me to a land whither 1lead them; or, if they should be persuaded,how can I force Pharaoh to permit them todepart, since he augments his own wealth andprosperity by the labours and works he putsupon them." But God persuaded him to be courageous J An. 1532.