OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. an aerial cupola, is entitled to the praise of bold designand skilful execution. The dome of St. Sophia, illumi­nated by four-and-twenty windows, is formed with sosmall a curve, that the depth is equal only to one-sixthof its diameter; the measure of that diameter is one hun­dred and fifteen feet, and the lofty centre, where a cres­cent has supplanted the cross, rises to the perpendicularheight of one hundred and eighty feet above the pave­ment. The circle, which encompasses the dome, lightlyreposes on four strong arches, and their weight is firmlysupported by four massy piles, whose strength is assistedon the northern and southern sides by four columns ofEgyptian granite. A Greek cross, inscribed in a quad­rangle, represents the form of the edifice; the exactbreadth is two hundred and forty-three feet, and twohundred and sixty-nine may be assigned for the extremelength from the sanctuary in the east to the nine westerndoors which open in the vestibule, and from thence intothe narthex, or exterior portico. That portico was thehumble station of the penitents. The nave or body ofthe church was filled by the congregation of the faithful;but the two sexes were prudently distinguished, and theupper and lower galleries were allotted for the more pri­vate devotion of the women. Beyond the northern andsouthern piles, a balustrade, terminated on either side bythe thrones of the emperor and the patriarch, dividedthe nave from the choir: and the space, as far as thesteps of the altar, was occupied by the clergy and singers.The altar itself, a name which insensibly became fa­miliar to Christian ears, was placed in the eastern recess,artificially built in the form of a demi-cylinder; and thissanctuary communicated by several doors with the sa­cristy, the vestry, the baptistery, and the contiguousbuildings, subservient either to the pomp of worship, orthe private use of the ecclesiastical ministers. The me­mory of past calamities inspired Justinian with a wise re­solution, that no wood, except for the doors, should be