OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 311 that temperate region. The air was pure, and the foil, wateredby some invaluable springs, was capable of producing fruits, as wellas corn,. A place possessed of such singular advantages, and situ­ated at a convenient distance 6S, between the gulph of Persia and theMediterranean, was soon frequented by the caravans which con­veyed to the nations of Europe a considerable part of the rich com­modities of India. Palmyra insensibly increased into an opulentand independent city, and connecting the Roman and the Parthianmonarchies by the mutual benefits of commerce, was suffered toobserve an humble neutrality, till at length, after the victories ofTrajan, the little republic funk into the bosom of Rome, and flou­rished more than one hundred and fifty years in the subordinatethough honourable rank of a colony. It was during that peacefulperiod, if we may judge from a few remaining inscriptions, thatthe wealthy Palmyrenians constructed those temples, palaces, andporticos of Grecian architecture, whose ruins, scattered over an ex­tent of several miles, have deserved the curiosity of our travellers.The elevation of Odenathus and Zenobia appeared to reflect newsplendour on their country, and Palmyra, for a while, stood forth therival of Rome: but the competition was fatal, and ages of prospe­rity were sacrificed to a moment of glory 6'. In his march over the sandy desert, between Emesa and Palmyra, it is besieged by Aurelian, the emperor Aurelian was perpetually harassed by the Arabs; norcould he always defend his army, and especially his baggage, fromthese flying troops, which were vexatious only from their minutenessand activity. The siege of Palmyra was an object far more difficult andimportant, and the emperor, who with incessant vigour pressed theattacks in person, was himself wounded with a dart. *' The Romanpeople," says Aurelian, in an original letter, " speak with contempt"of the war which I am waging against a woman. They are ignorant"both of the character and of the power of Zenobia. It is impossible to "enumerate