OCR Output Or THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 309 celled all the heroes of the age, attacked with a chap.small troop a superior body of the rebels. When he XXbeheld the faces of the soldiers who had served underhis banner, he commanded them, with a loud voice,to seize and deliver up their pretended leader; andsuch was the ascendant of his genius, that this ex­traordinary order was instantly obeyed. Arbetio, arespectable veteran of the great Constantine, who hadbeen distinguished by the honours of the consulship,was persuaded to leave his retirement, and oncemore to conduct an army into the field. In the heatof action, calmly taking off his helmet, he showedhis gray hairs, and venerable countenance; salutedthe soldiers of Procopius by the endearing namesof children and companions, and exhorted them nolonger to support the desperate cause of a contempti­ble tyrant, but to follow their old commander, whohad so often led them to honour and victory. In thetwo engagements of Thyatira and Nacosia, the un­fortunate Procopius was deserted by his troops,who were seduced by the instructions and example oftheir perfidious officers. After wandering some timeamong the woods and mountains of Phrygia, he wasbetrayed by his desponding followers, conducted tothe Imperial camp, and immediately beheaded. Hesuffered the ordinary fate of an unsuccessful usurper;but the acts of cruelty which were exercised by theconqueror, under the forms of legal justice, excitedthe pity and indignation of mankind *. Such indeed are the common and natural fruits of Severe in.despotism and rebellion. But the inquisition into into thethe crime of magic, which, under the reign of the J^'°attwo brothers, was so rigorously prosecuted both at^™(^nd , . . A. D. 373. * The adventures, usurpation, and fall of Procopius, are related, in a regu- £c.lar series, by Ammianus (xxvi. 6, 7,8,9, 10.) and Zosimus (l . iv. p. 203—210.)They often illustrate, and seldom contradict, each other. Themistius (Orat. viLp. 91, 92.1 adds some base panegyric; and Eunapius (p. 83, 84.) some ma­licious satire. x 3