OCR Output an. 1307.] 16* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mm* the same time, the Midianites called theAinalekiles and Arabians to their assistance,and made war against the Israelites, andwere too hard for those that fought againstthem; and when they had burnt the fruits ofthe earth, they carried off the prey. Nowwhen they had done this for three years, themultitude of the Israelites retired to themountains, and forsook the plain country.They also made themselves hollows underground, and caverns; and preserved thereinwhatsoever had escaped their enemies. Forthe Midianites made expeditions in harvesttime, but permitted them to plough the landin winter; that so, when the others had takenthe pains, they might have fruits for them tocarry away. Indeed, there ensued a famine,and a scarcity of food; upon which they be­took themselves to their supplications to God,and besought him to save them.* Gideon also,f the son of Joash, one of theprincipal persons of the tribe of Manasseh,brought his sheaves of corn privately, andthreshed them at the wine-press; for he wastoo fearful of the enemies to thresh themopenly in the threshing-floor. At this timesomewhat appeared to him, in the shape of ayoung man, and told him, that he was a happyman, and beloved of God. To which he im- mediately replied, "A mighty indication ofGod's favour to me^ that i am forced to usethis wine-press instead of a threshing-floor.":}:But the appearance exhorted him to be ofgood courage, and to make an attempt for therecovery of their liberty. He answered, thatit was impossible for him to recover it, be­cause the tribe to which he belonged was byno means numerous; and because he was butyoung himself, and too inconsiderable to thinkof such great actions. But the other pro­mised him, that God would supply what hewas defective in; and would afford the Israel­ites victory under his conduct. Now, therefore, as Gideon was relating thisthing to some young men, they believed him;and immediately an army of ten thousandmen got ready for fighting. But God stood byGideon in his sleep, and told him, that man­kind were too fond of themselves; and wereenemies to such as excelled in virtue. Nowthat they might not pass God over, but as­cribe the victory to him, and might not fancyit obtained by their own power, because theywere a great army, and able of themselves tofight their enemies, but might confess that itwas owing to his assistance, he advised him tobring his army about noon, in the violence ofthe heat, to the river,|| and to esteem those * Judg. vi. 6. t It is generally supposed that Gideon's father had beena worshipper, if not a priest of Baal-; and therefore it isnot unlikely, that he had by this time been convinced byhis son, that God had given him a commission to recoverhis people, and to begin with this reformation, and thismade him appear so boldly in his son's cause, because heknew it was the cause of God. Pool's Annot. and Patrick'sCommentary. B. \ He supposed that the dew which was distilled fromheaven, was a Divine gift, as the Scripture after testifies;and therefore, he desired that it might be directed by God,that though it commonly falls every where, by his extra­ordinary providence, it might now only water his fleece.Some are apt to think, that he chose a fleece for this pur­pose, not only because it was ready at hand, but the betterto express how the land was shorn by the Midianites, evenas the sheep had been by him: that when he begged thedew, as a sign of the divine favour, might fall upon thefleece, it was to represent the kindness of God to him;and when he begged it might fall upon the whole ground,to represent his favour to all the people. But there isfurther reason why he might desire to have the miracleinverted. For, as it is in the very nature of the wool todraw moisture to it, some might be apt to think, that therewas no great matter in this; and therefore he requestedof God a second miracle, which was contrary to the former.Patrick's Commentary. B. || M. Le Clerc is of opinion, that the sacred historianhas omitted one circumstance, which, nevertheless, in thevery nature of the thing, is implied, viz. that Gideon,when he led his men down to the water, did forbid themto make use of any cup or pot, or such like thing; for liethinks it incongruous (as well he may) that among such anumber as ten thousand men, no one should be furnishedwith some drinking vessel or other. But then, had any ofthese been permitted to be used upon this occasion, theexperiment could not have been made. (Comment, onJudg. vii. 6.) Interpreters are at a sad puzzle to conceivefor what possible reason God made a distinction betweenthe soldiers who lapped water in their hands, and thosethat laid themselves down to drink. Some of the Jewishdoctors are of opinion, that all except three hundred, wholapped, had been accustomed to the worship of Baal, whichthey unwarily discovered by their kneeling to drink. Butthis is groundless and far-fetched conceit. The notion ofthose who imputed these three hundred men's lapping,some to their sloth and idleness, and others to their timo-rousness, and the great fear they were in of being sur­prised by the enemy, is of no great validity. For thoughGod, if he thought fit, might have employed the most das­tardly among them upon this expedition, that the glory ofthe victory might entirely redound to himself; yet since weare told all the fearful persons were dismissed before, andsince it but badly befits the character of the courageous tobe lazy, this action of lapping is rather to be accounted a Oo2