OCR Output Chap. XXV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 329 " kindness for him; but that if he would do so, he would afford" him all the assistance he was able." 4. With this advice Pheroras complied, and, putting himselfinto such a habit as might most move compassion, he came withblack cloth upon his body, and tears in his eyes, and threw him­self down at Herod's feet, and begged his pardon for what he haddone, and confessed that he had acted very wickedly, and wasguilty of every thing that he had been accused of, and lamentedthat disorder of his mind, and distraction which his love to a wo­man, he said, had brought him to. So when Archelaus hadbrought Pheroras to accuse and bear witness against himself, he.then made an excuse for him, and mitigated Herod's anger to-wards-him, and this by using certain domestical examples; " For" that when he had suffered much greater mischiefs from a bro-" ther of his own, he preferred the obligations of nature, before'•' the passion of revenge; because it is in kingdoms, as it is in'' gross bodies, where some member or other is ever swelled by" the bodies weight, in which case it is not proper to cut off" such member, but to heal it by a gentle method of cure." 5. Upon Archelaus's saying this, and much more to the samepurpose, Herod's displeasure against Pheroras was molified; yetdid he persevere in his own indignation against Alexander, andsaid, he would have his daughter divorced, and taken away fromhim, and this till he had brought Herod to that pass, that, con.trary to his former behaviour to him, he petitioned Archelausfor the young man, and that he would let his daughter continueespoused to him: but Archelaus made him strongly believe thathe would permit her to be married to any one else, but not toAlexander, because he looked upon it as a very valuable advan­tage, that the relation they had contracted by that affinity, andthe privileges that went along with it might be preserved. Andwhen the king said, that his son would take it for a great favourto him, if he would not dissolve that marriage, especially sincethey had already children between the young man and her, andsince that wife of his was so well beloved by him, and that aswhile she remains his wife she would*be a great preservative tohim, and keep him from offending, as 'he had formerly done; soif she should be once torn away from him, she would be the causeof his falling into despair; because such young men's attemptsare best molified, when they are diverted from them by settlingtheir affections at home. So Archelaus complied with whatHerod desired, but not without difficulty, and was both himselfreconciled to the young man, and reconciled his father to him al­so. However, he said he must, by all means, be sent to RomeVOL. III. T t to