OCR Output 142 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK V. Containing an Interval of Four Hundred and Seventy-six Years. FROM THE DEATH OF MOSES TO THE DEATH OF ELI. CHAP. I. OF THE WAR CARRIED ON BY JOSHUA AGAINST TJIE CA-NAANITES, AND THE SIGNAL SUCCESSES OF THE HEBREWS. WHEN Moses had been taken fromamong men, in the manner alreadydescribed, and when all the solemnities be­longing to the mourning for him were finished,Joshua commanded the multitude to getthemselves ready for an expedition. He alsosent spies to Jericho,* to discover what forcesthey had, and what were their intentions.But he put his camp in order, as intendingto pass over Jordan at a proper season. Andcalling to him the rulers of the tribe of Reu- bel, and the governors of ^he tribe of Gad,and the half tribe of Manasseh, (for half of thistribe had been permitted to have their habi­tation in the country of the Amorites, whichwas thet seventh part of the land of Canaan;)he put them in mind what they had promisedMoses, and exhorted them that for the sakeof the care that Moses had taken of them,who had never been weary of taking painsfor them, no not when he was dying; and forthe sake of the public welfare, they wouldprepare themselves, and readily perform whatthey had promised. So he took fifty thousandof them, and marched with them, from Abilato Jordan, sixty furlongs. * Josh. ii. 1. Jericho was a city of Canaan, whichafterwards fell to the lot of the tribe of Benjamin, aboutseven leagues distant from Jerusalem, and two from Jor­dan. Moses calls it likewise the city of palm-tftes, Deut.xxxiv. 3. because there were great numbers of them inthe plains of Jericho; and not only of palm-trees, but asJosephus tells us, (Antiq. lib. 4. c. 5.) balsam-trees like­wise, which produced the precious liquor in such highesteem among the ancients. The plain of Jericho waswatered with a rivulet, which was formerly salt and bitter,but was afterward sweetened by the prophet Elisha, 2Kings ii. 21, 22; whereupon the adjacent country, whichwas watered by it, became not only one of the most agree­able, but most fertile spots in all that country. As to thecityitself, after it was destroyed by Joshua, it was in thedays of Ahab, king of Israel, rebuilt by Hiel the Bethelite,1 Kings xvi. 24. and in the times of the last kings of Ju-dea, yielded to none except Jerusalem. For it was adornedwith a royal palace, wherein Herod the Great died; withan hippodromus, or place where the Jewish nobilitylearned to ride the great horse, and other arts of chivalry,with an amphitheatre, and other magnificent buildings ; butduring the siege of Jerusalem, the treachery of its inhab­itants provoked the Romans to destroy it. After the siegewas over, there was another city built, but not upon thesame place where the two former stood, for the ruins ofthem are seen to this day. Of what account and bigness it was we have no certain information; but some latertravellers inform us, that at present it is no more than apoor nasty village of the Arabs. Well's Geog. of theOld and jvea; Testament; and MaundreWs Journey fromAleppo. B. f The Amorites were one of the seven nations of Ca­naan. Hence Reland is willing to suppose, that Josephusdid not here mean that their land beyond Jordan was aseventh part of the whole land of Canaan, but meant theAmorites as a seventh nation. His reason is, that Jose­phus, as well as our Bible, generally distinguish the landbeyond Jordan, from the land of Canaan. Nor can it bedenied, that in strictness they were different. Yet aftertwo tribes and a half of the twelve tribes came to inheritit, it might in a general way be included under the land ofCanaan, Palestine, or Judea. Of which we have a clearexample before us in Josephus, whose words evidentlyimply that, taking the whole land of Canaan, or that in­habited by all the twelve tribes together, and parting itinto seven parts; the part beyond Jordan was in quantityof ground one seventh of the whole. And this agreeswith Reland's map of that country. Although this landbeyond Jordan was so peculiarly fruitful, and good forpasturage, as the two tribes and a half took notice. Numb,xxxii. 1, 4, 16. that it maintained about a fifth part of thewhole people.