OCR Output KTSSAD1UH.SABA. 8til aWr, not Sndrich; which latter town seems tom tpronc op under the Saxons, after Kutupiackl (*juo to fall into decay, and was indeed pro-kkir hailt with materials taken from it. Accord-fctoCamdrn (p. 244) the etymology of the namef Kutupiat U analogous to that of Sandwich, beingUrnj from the British Rhydlufeth, signifyingfetodr bottoms"; a derivation which seems much■e probable than that from the Ruteui, a peoplenV Tupd tbe district in France now called Lapry«. The territory around the town was ri Rutupinus Ager (Auson. Parent, xviii. 8)tbe coast Rutupinus Littua (Luc. /. c). Tbe■a* raa celebrated for ita oysters, as the coastm Margate and Re culver is to the present day.■jr l<ed» c4* oyster-idielU have been found in theIfbUtarbtul, at a depth of from 4 to 6 feet under*': ill" I-Tt i> undoubtedly that mentionedt Taritua (Agrie. 38), under the erroneous nameTmtulrnsis Portus, as occupied by the fleet ofrv\U. It wu a wife harbour, and the usuald mart convenient one fox the passage betweenvr» and England. (Amm. Man*, xx. 1, xxvii.\ 1) The principal Roman remains at Rich*esses an those of a cast rum and of an amphi-min. The walls of the former present an exten- * rain, and on the N. side are in some placesw SO U 30 feet in height. Fragments of sculp-bJ marbles found within their circuit show that> f rtificatwn must have contained some handsomeusagt. The foundation walls of the amphi-tatrt were excavated in 1849, and are the firsttaaas of a walled building of that description**roJ in England. There is a good descriptionIbdAonmgk, as it existed in the time of Henrylfc, in LeUnd'a Itinerary (vol. vii. p. 128, ed.wt*X Leland mentions that many Roman coins» fuund there, which still continues to be the'- 'itber Roman antiquities of various descrip- * tare been discovered, as pottery, fibulae, oma­sa, knives, tools. Sec. Rutupiae was under thestViion of tbe Comes litoris Saxon ici, and wasatatauo of tbe Lejrio IMa Augusta. (XotUia, * ■ A complete account of its remains will boMia Beach Smith's Antu/uities of Richborough**.l«a [T.ED.]TSUUHLH ('PihtstcUiop Ipos, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8),fc.si-.tam of Interior Libya, from which flows>*l«r (Gambia), making near it the lake-*. tbe middle of the mountain (or lake?)E- ton*., 11° X. lat." (Ptol. /. c.) This moun-tenmoated in the headland also called Ryssa-'Pwroiior &Kfjor), the position of which isI by Ptolemy (iT. 6. § 6) at 8° 30' E. long.,It* W X. laU We assume, with Rcnnell and■'. that Arsinariain is C. Verde, a conjecturefceaa be made with more confidence because it1*1 Chat Ptolemy's difference of longitude be-r. ArvfLtnum and Carthage is very nearly cor-—awarding to that assumption this promontory bt looked for to tbe N. of the mouth of thesw. Tbe mountain and lake must be assignedat earrated region in which the Senegal and theMa take their rise, forming an appendage to theal highlands of Africa from which it projects.»a.-.Ja like a vast promontory, into the Greatra. [E. B. J.] S. SABA, SABAEI (2ae>> or Xa€aii Kth. SafrVor,fern. Saffaia). were respectively the principal cityand nation in Yemen* or Arabia Felix. [Akaiua.JAncient geographers differ considerably as to theextent of territory occupied by the Sabaeans, Era­tosthenes assigning to it a much larger area thanPtolemy. The difference may perhaps be reconciledby examining their respective accounts. Our knowledge of the Sabaeans is derived fromthree sources: the Hebrew Scriptures, the Greekhistorians and geographers, and the Roman poetsand encyclopedists, Pliny, Solinus, \. . The Arabiangeographers, also, throw some light upon this ancientand far-extending race. 1. In the Hebrew genealogies (Genesis, x. C,xxv. 3) the Sabaeans are described as the de-HcendantS of Cush, the son of Ham. This de­scent was probably not so much from a singlestem, us from several branches of Hamite origin;and as the tribes of the Sabaeims were numerous,some of them may have proceeded immediately from ! Cash, and others from later progenitors nf the samestock. Thus one tribe descended frum Seba, the souof Cush, another from Jokahan, Abraham's sou byKeturah; a third from Sheba, the son of Raamah—the 'Pryp&of tlie I.XX. (Compare Psalm Ixxii.10; Isaiah, x\v. 14; h'zekiel, xxvii. 22, 23, xxxviii.13.) The most material point in this pedigree isthe fact of the pure Semitic blood of the .Sabaeans.The Hebrew prophets agree in celebrating thestature and noble bearing, the enterprise and wealthof this nation, therein concurring with the expres­sion of Agatharchides, who describes the Sabaeansas having ra awnaiat a^io\oywr*ffa. Their occu­pations appear to have been various, as would be thecase with a nation so widely extended (" Sabaei . . .ad utraque maris porrecti/ Plin. vi. 28. s. 32):for there is no doubt that in the south they wereactively engaged in commerce, while in the north, onthe borders of Idumca, they retained the predatoryhabits of nomades. (Job, ii. 15.) The *' Queenof the South," i-«• of Yemen or Sabaea. who wasattracted to Palestine by the lame of Solomon, wasprobably an Arabian sovereign. It may be observedthat Ytmen and Saba liave nearly the same import,each signifying the right hand , for a person turninghis face to the rising sun has the south on his right,and thus Saba or Yemen, which was long regarded asthe southern limit of the habitable zone, is the left-hand, or southern land. (Comp. Herod, hi. 107 —113; Footer's Geogr. of Arabia, vol i. pp.24—38.) A river Sab is, in Caruuvuia (Mela, ii). 8. § 4),and a chain of mountains Sab>>, at the entrance ofthe Persian Gulf (Arrian, Periplus. M. F.rythr., opnpeyiGTa \ty6uffa Xd€a; comp. Ptol. vi. 7. § 23),apparently indicate an extension of the Sabaeans be­yond Arabia Proper. That they reached to theeastern shore of the Red Sea is rendered probable bythe circumstance that a city named Sabu or Sabestood there, about 36 miles S. of Podnu, in lat.14° N. (Ptol. vi. 7. § 38, v. 22. § 14.) 2. The first Greek writer who mentions theSabaeans by name is Eratosthenes. His account,however, represents a more recent condition of thisnation than is described by Artemidorus, or by Aga­tharchides, who is Strabo's principal authority iuhis narrative of the Sabaeans. On the other hand,Diudorus Siculua professes to hare compiled his