OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Obeidah. At the hour of midnight, one hundred chosen deputies of the clergyand people were introduced to the tent of that venerable commander. He re­ceived and dismissed them with courtesy. They returned with a written agreement,on the faith of a companion of Mahomet, that all hostilities should cease; that thevoluntary emigrants might depart in safety, with as much as they could carryaway of their effects; and that the tributary subjects of the caliph should en­joy their lands and houses, with the use and possession of seven churches. Onthese terms, the most respectable hostages, and the gate nearest to his camp,were delivered into his hands: his soldiers imitated the moderation of their chief;and he enjoyed the submissive gratitude of a people whom he had rescuedfrom destruction. But the success of the treaty had relaxed their vigilance, andin the same moment the opposite quarter of the city was betrayed and taken byassault. A party of a hundred Arabs had opened the eastern gate to a more in­exorable foe. "No quarter," cried the rapacious and sanguinary Caled, "noquarter to the enemies of the Lord." His trumpets sounded, and a torrent ofChristian blood was poured down the streets of Damascus. When he reached thechurch of St. Mary, he was astonished and provoked by the peaceful aspect of hiscompanions; their swords were in the scabbard, and they were surrounded by amultitude of priests and monks.—Abu Obeidah saluted the general; " God," saidhe, " has delivered the city into my hands by way of surrender, and lias saved thebelievers the trouble of fighting."—"And am I not," replied the indignant Caled," am I not the lieutenant of the commander of the faithful? Have I not taken thecity by storm? The unbelievers shall perish by the sword. Fall on." The hungryand cruel Arabs would have obeyed the welcome command; and Damascus waslost, if the benevolence of Abu Obeidah had not been supported by a decent anddignified firmness. Throwing himself between the trembling citizens and the mosteager of the barbarians, he abjured them by the holy name of God, to respect hispromise, to suspend their fury, and to wait the determination of their chiefs. Thechiefs retired into the church of St. Mary; and after a vehement debate, Caledsubmitted in some measure to the reason and authority of his colleague, who urgedthe sanctity of a covenant, the advantage as well as the honour which the Moslemswould derive from the punctual performance of their word, and the obstinate re­sistance which thev must encounter from the distrust and despair of the rest ofthe Syrian cities. It was agreed that the sword should be sheathed; that the partof Damascus which had surrendered to Abu Obeidah, should be immediately en­titled to the benefit of his capitulation; and that the final decision should be referredto the justice and wisdom of the caliph. (1) A large majority of the people acceptedthe terms of toleration and tribute; and Damascus is still peopled by twenty thou­sand Christians. But the valiant Thomas, and the free-born patriots who hadfought under his banner, embraced the alternative of poverty and exile. In theadjacent meadow, a numerous encampment was formed of priests and laymen, ofsoldiers and citizens, of women and children: they collected, with haste and terror,their most precious moveables; and abandoned with loud lamentations or silentanguish, their native homes, and the pleasant banks of the Pharphar. The in­flexible soul of Caled was not touched by the spectacle of their distress; he dis­puted with the Damascenes the property of a magazine of corn; endeavoured toexclude the garrison from the benefit of the treaty; consented, with reluctance,that each of the fugitives should arm himself with a sword, or a lance, or a bow;and sternly declared, that, after a respite of three days, they might be pursuedand treated as the enemies of the Moslems. The passion of a Syrian youth completed the ruin of the exiles of Damascus.A nobleman of the city, of the name of Jonas,(2) was betrothed to a wealthy maiden;but her parents delayed the consummation of his nuptials, and their daughter waspersuaded to escape with the man whom she had chosen. They corrupted thenightly watchmen of the gate Keisan: the lover, who led the way, was encom­passed by a squadron of Arabs; but his exclamation in the Greek tongue,— The (1) It appears from Abulft-da (p. 125.) and Elmacin,(p. 32.J that this diitinction of the two parts of Damascuswas long remembered, though not always respected, by the Mahometan sovereigns. See likewise Eutychitis.(Annal. torn. ii. p. 379,380.383.) (2) On the fate of these lovers, whom he names Phocyas and Eudocia, Mr. Hughes lias built the siege of Da­mascus, one of our most popular tragedies, and which possesses the rare merit of blending nature and history.t,e manners of the times and the feelings of the heart. The foolish delicacy of the players compelled bim tosoften the guilt of the hero and the despair of the heroine. Instead of a base renegado, Phocyas serves theArabs as an honourable ally; instead of prompting their pursuit, he flies to the succour of his countrymen, and,after killing Calad and Derav, is himself mortally wounded, and expires in the presence of Eudocia, who pro­fesses her resolution to take the veil at Constantinople. A frigid catmtrophe.'