OCR Output CHAP. XL'ir.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 381' bound with a chain of fifteen pounds weight; and hismisery was thrice exposed in the market-place, to solicitthe compassion of his friends and countrymen. At theexpiration of sixty days, the debt was discharged by theloss of liberty or life ; the insolvent debtor was either putto death, or sold in foreign slavery beyond the Tiber:but if several creditors were alike obstinate and unrelent­ing, they might legally dismember his body, and satiatetheir revenge by his horrid partition. The advocates forthis savage law have insisted, that it must strongly ope­rate in deterring idleness and fraud from contracting debtswhich they are unable to discharge; but experience woulddissipate this salutary terror, by proving, that no credi­tor could be found to exact this unprofitable penalty of;life or limb. As the manners of Rome were insensiblypolished, the criminal code of the decemvirs was abolish­ed by the humanity of accusers, witnesses, and judges;and impunity became the consequence of immoderaterigour. The Porcian and Valerian laws prohibited themagistrates from inflicting on a free citizen any capital,or even corporal punishment; and the obsolete statutes'of blood were artfully, and perhaps truly, ascribed to thespirit, not of patrician, but of regal, tyranny. In the absence of penal laws and the insufficiency of Abolitioncivil actions, the peace and justice of the city were im- of penal'0"perfectly maintained by the private jurisdiction of thelaw*'citizens. The malefactors who replenish our gaols, arethe outcasts of society, and the crimes for which theysuffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance, poverty,and brutal appetite. For the perpetration of similarenormities, a vile pleheian might claim and abuse the sa­cred character of a member of the republic: but on theproof or suspicion of guilt, the slave, or the stranger,was nailed to a cross, and this strict and summary justicemight be exercised without restraint over the greatestpart of the populace of Rome. Each family containeda domestic tribunal, which was not confined, like that of