OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. , Syf composition, should suspect his own ignorance, and that of his Byzantine guides,so prone to the marvellous, so careless, and, in this instance, so jealous of the truth.From their obscure, and perhaps fallacious hints, it should seem that the principalingredient of the Greek fire was the nafitha,{l) or liquid bitumen, a light tena­cious, and inflammable oil,(2) which springs from the earth, and catches fire assoon as it comes in contact with the air. The naptha was mingled, I know not bywhat methods or in what proportions, with sulphur and with the pitch that is ex­tracted from evergreen firs. (3) From this mixture, which produces a thick smokeand a loud explosion, proceeded a fierce and obstinate flame, which not only rosein perpendicular ascent, but likewise burnt with equal vehemence in descent orlateral progress; instead of being extinguished, it was nourished and quickened, bythe element of water; and sand, urine, or vinegar, were the only remedies thatcould damp the fury of this powerful agent, which was justly denominated by theGreeks the liquid or the maritime fire. For the annoyance of the enemy, it wasemployed with equal effect, by sea and land, in battles or in sieges.1 It was eitherpoured from the ramparts in large boilers, or launched in red-hot balls of stoneand iron, or darted in arrows and javelins, twisted round with flax and tow, whichhad deeply imbibed the inflammable oil: sometimes it was deposited in fire-ships,the victims and instruments of a more ample revenge, and was most commonlyblown through long tubes of copper, which were planted on the prow of a galleyand fancifully shaped into the mouths of savage monsters, that seemed to vomit astream of liquid and consuming fire. This important art was preserved at Con­stantinople, as the palladium of the state; the galleys and artillery might occa­sionally be lent to the allies of Rome; but the composition of the Greek fire wasconcealed with the most jealous scruple, and the terror of the enemies was in­creased and prolonged by their ignorance and surprise. In the treatise of the ad­ministration of the empire, the royal author(4) suggests the answers and excusesthat might best elude the indiscreet curiosity and importunate demands of the bar­barians. They should be told that the mystery of the Greek fire had been re­vealed by an angel to the first and greatest of the Constantines, with a sacred in-,junction, that this gift of heaven, this peculiar blessing of the Romans, shouldnever be communicated to any foreign nation: that the prince and subject, werealike bound to religious silence, under the temporal and spiritual penalties of trea­son and sacrilege; and that the impious attempt would provoke the sudden and su­pernatural vengeance of the God of the Christians. By these precautions, the se­cret was confined, above four hundred years, to the Romans of the east; and, atthe end of the eleventh century, the Pisans, to whom every art was familiar, suf­fered the effects, without understanding the composition of the Greek fire. It wasat length either discovered or stolen by the Mahometans; and, in the holy wars ofSyria and Egypt, they retorted an invention, contrived against themselves, on theheads of the Christians. A knight, who despised the swords and lances of theSaracens, relates, with heartfelt sincerity, his own fears, -and those of his compa­nions, at the sight and sound of the mischievous engine that discharged a torrentof the Greek fire, the feu Gregeois, as it is styled by the more early of the Frenchwriters. It came flying through the air, says Joinville,(5) like a winged long-tailed dragon, about the thickness of a hogshead, with the report of thunder, andthe velocity of lightning; and the darkness of the night was dispelled by this dead- (1) The naptha. the oleum incendiarum of the history of Jerusalem,-Gest. Del per Francos, p. 1167.) the ori--enud fountain of James de Vitry, lib. iii. c. 84.) is introduced on slight evidence and strong probability. Cin-namus (lib. vi. p. 163.) calls the Greek fire *rop MnJxov ; and the naptha is known to abound between the Tigrisand the Caspian sea. According to Pliny, (Hist. Natur. 2.109.) it was subservient to the revenge of Medea,and in either etymology the (Xa.ov Mjifasf, or MVi<»s (Procop.de Bell. Gothic, lib. iv. c. 11.) may fairly sig­nify this liquid bitumen. (2) On the different sorts of oils and bitumen, see Dr. Watson's (the present bishop of LlandafT's) ChemicalEssays; vol. iii. essay 1. a classic book, the best adapted to infuse the taste and knowledge of chemistry. Theless perfect idea of ihe ancients mny be found in Strabo (Geograpli. lib. xvi. p. 1078.) and Pliny (Hist.Natur. 2.108,109.) Huic (Naplbcz) magna cognatio est igniuro, transiliuntque protinus in earn undecunque visam. Ofour travellers I om best pleased with Otter, (torn. 1. p. 153—158.) (3) Anna Comnena has partly drawn aside the curtain. Am tv; jnvx»;, xxi u\hcav tiw, tcoutmv Jvdpaw usi5x>.wvtrvfayi-r** SsxftuQv ocxa-jo-rov. Tcuto autw0£<cu rpiBoftiuov if*3xXKtTvt s<; ow\«nwu« x»/.a««v x»( iftQuTxTtci mtftt to-j5t*<o»tos u£f» x»i a-w/jtnxvivuzri. (Aleviad. lib. xiii. p. 383.) Elsewhere (lib. si. p. 336.) she mentions theproperty of burning, x«t* to jrpxvig xx» sp' nc»T«p*. Leo. in the nineteenth chapter of his Tactics (Opera Meursii,torn. vi. p. 834. edit. Lami, Florent. 1743.) speaks of the new invention of srup /*et« i3eonT«; x«» xjctvou. These aregenuine and Imperial testimonies. (4) Constantin. Porphyrogenit. de Administrat. Imperii, c. xiii. p. 64,65. (5) Histoiie de St. Louis, p. 32. Paris, 1688. p. 44. Pari,, de I'lmprimerie Royalc, 1761. The former of theseeditions is precious fur the observations of Ducange; the latter for the pure and original text of Joinville. Wemust have recourse to that text fo discover, that the feu Gregeois was shot with a pile or javelin, from an en­gine that acted like a sling: