OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. of the Ostrogoths; and the three brothers, Walamir,Theodemir, and Widimir, who ruled that warlike na­tion with united counsels, had separately pitched theirhabitations in the fertile though desolate province ofPannonia. The Huns still threatened their revoltedsubjects, but their hasty attack was repelled by the sin­gle forces of Walamir, and the news of his victory reach­ed the distant camp of his brother in the same auspiciousmoment that the favourite concubine of Theodemir wasdelivered of a son and heir. In the eighth year of hisage, Theodoric was reluctantly yielded by his father tothe public interest, as the pledge of an alliance whichLeo, emperor of the east, had consented to purchase byan annual subsidy of three hundred pounds of gold. Theroyal hostage was educated at Constantinople with care'and tenderness. His body was formed to all the exer­cises of war, his mind was expanded by the habits of li­beral conversation; he frequented the schools of themost skilful masters; but he disdained or neglected thearts of Greece, and so ignorant did he always remain ofthe first elements of science, that a rude mark was con­trived to represent the signature of the illiterate king ofItaly.0 As soon as he attained the age of eighteen, hewas restored to the wishes of the Ostrogoths, whom theemperor ■ aspired to gain by liberality and confidence.Walamir had fallen in battle; the youngest of the bro­thers, Widimir, had led away into Italy and Gaul an armyof barbarians, and the whole nation acknowledged fortheir king the father of Theodoric. His ferocious sub­jects admired the strength and stature of their youngprince ;d and he soon convinced them that he had notdegenerated from the valour of his ancestors. At the c The four - first letters of his name (OEftA) were inscribed on a gold plate, andwhen it was fixed on the paper, the king drew his pen through the intervals. (Ano­nym. Valesian. ad Calcein Ainin. Marcellin. p. 722.) This authentic fact, with thetestimony of Procopius, or at least of the contemporary Coths, Gothic, lib. 1. o. 2.p. 311.) far outweighs the vague praises of Ennodius (Sirmodd Opera, torn. 1. p.1596.) and Theophaues. (Chronograph, p. 112.) d Statura est qua? resignet procerifale regimnlem. (Ennodius, p. 1614.) Thebishop of Pavia (I mean the ecclesiastic who wished to be a bishop) then proceedsto celebrate the complexion, eyes, hands, &c. of his sovereign.