OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 241 on the Italian side six, on the Roman side five, lieutenant-commanders, each of whom conducted the attack or defencein a definite district, whereas the consular armies weredestined to act more freely and to strike the decisive blow.The most esteemed Roman officers, such as Gaius Marius,Quintus Catulus, and the two consulars of experience inthe Spanish war, Titus Didius and Publius Crassus, placedthemselves at the disposal of the consuls for these posts;and, though the Italians had not names so celebrated tooppose to them, yet the result showed that their leaders werein a military point of view nowise inferior to the Romans. The offensive in this thoroughly desultory war was on thewhole on the side of the Romans, but was nowhere deci­sively assumed even on their part. It is surprising that theRomans did not collect their troops for the purpose of at­tacking the insurgents with a superior force, and that theinsurgents made no attempt to advance into Latium and tothrow themselves on the hostile capital. "We are however toolittle acquainted with their respective circumstances tojudge whether or how they could have acted otherwise,or to what extent the remissness of the Roman govern­ment on the one hand and the looseness of the connectionamong the federate communities on the other contributedto this want of unity in the conduct of the war. It is easyto see, that with such a system there would be victories anddefeats but the final settlement might be very long delayed;and it is no less plain, that a clear and vivid picture of such awar—which resolved itself into a series of engagements onthe part of individual corps operating at the same time,sometimes separately, sometimes in combination—cannot beprepared out of the remarkably fragmentary accounts whichhave reached us. The first assault, as a matter of course, fell on the for- Commence-tresses adhering to Rome in the insurgent districts, which ment of thein all haste closed their gates and carried in their moveable war-property from the country. Silo threw himself on the for- The for­tress designed to hold in check the Marsians, the strong tresses.Alba, Mutilus on the Latin town of ^Esernia established inthe heart of Samnium: in both cases they encountered themost resolute resistance. Similar conflicts probably ragedin the north around Firmum, Hatria, Pinna, in the southaround Luceria, Beneventum, Nola, Paestum, before and whilethe Roman armies gathered on the borders of the insurgent VOL. III. E -*