OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 83 ordinarily given up by the authorities to their masters to bepunished at their discretion; and those masters were frugalpeople, -who, if their slave-herdsmen asked clothes, repliedwith stripes and with the inquiry whether travellersjourneyed through the land naked. The consequence ofsuch connivance accordingly was, that on the subjugation ofthe slave-revolt the consul Publius Rupilius ordered all thatcame into his hands alive—it is said upwards of 20,000 men—to be crucified. It was in truth no longer possible toshow indulgence to capital. The care of the government for the elevation of free The Italianlabour, and by consequence for the restriction of the slave- farmers.proletariate, promised fruits far more difficult to be gainedbut also far more valuable. Unfortunately, in this respectthere was nothing done at all. In the first social crisis thelandholder had been enjoined by law to employ a number offree labourers proportioned to the number of his slavelabourers (i. 304). Now at the suggestion of the govern­ment a Punic treatise on agriculture (ii. 19), doubtlessgiving instructions in the system of planting after theCarthaginian mode, was translated into Latin for the useand benefit of Italian speculators—the first and onlyinstance of a literary undertaking suggested by the Romansenate! The same tendency showed itself in a more im­portant matter, or to speak more correctly in the vital ques­tion for Rome—the system of colonization. It needed nospecial wisdom but merely a recollection of the cause ofthe first social crisis in Rome, to perceive that the only realremedy against an agricultural proletariate consisted in acomprehensive and regular system of emigration (i. 312);for which the external relations of Romo offered the mostfavourable opportunity. Until nearly the close of the sixth V. C.century, in fact, the continuous disappearance of the smalllandholders of Italy was counteracted by the continuousestablishment of new farm-allotments (ii. 351). This, it istrue, was by no means done to the extent to which it mightand should have been done; not only was the domainlandoccupied from ancient times by private persons (i. 277) notrecalled, but further occupations of newly won land werepermitted; and other very important acquisitions, such asthe territory of Capua, while not abandoned to occupation,were yet not brought to distribution, but were let on leaseas usufructuary domains. Nevertheless the assignation of