OCR Output 64 LIVY. a second time; and as they had already, when consulselect, cast lots for their provinces, they now orderedthe pretors to do the same. To Caius Hostilius fellthe city jurisdiction, to which the foreign was added,in order that three pretors might go abroad to the pro足vinces. To Aulus Hostilius fell Sardinia; to CaiusMamilius, Sicily; and to Lucius Porcius, Gaul. Thewhole of the legions, amounting to twenty-three, weredistributed in such manner that each of the consulsshould have two, Spain four, the three pretors, inSicily, Sardinia, and Gaul, two each; Caius Teren-tius, in Etruria, two; Quintus Fulvius, in liruttium,two; Quintus Claudius, about Tarentum and Sallen-tum, two; Caius Hostilius Tubulus, at Capua, one;and two were ordered to be raised for the city. Forthe first four legions the people elected tribunes; forthe rest they were appointed by the consuls. 37. Before the consuls left home the nine days'solemnity was performed, on account of a shower ofstones having fallen from the sky at Veii. The men足tion of one prodigy was, as usual, followed by reportsof others; that the temple of Jupiter at Miuturnae, agrove at Marica, a wall and a gate of Atella, had beenstruck by lightning. The people of Minturntc said,what was still more terrifying, that a stream of bloodhad flowed in at one of their gates: at Capua, too, awolf came into one of the gates, and tore the sentinel.These prodigies were expiated with victims of thegreater kinds; and a supplication of one day's con足tinuance was ordered by the pontiffs. The nine days'solemnity was afterwards performed a second time, onaccount of a shower of stones seen to fall during thearmilustrum. The people's minds were no soonerfreed from religious apprehensions than they wereagain disturbed by an account that at Frusino an in足fant was born of a size equal to that of a child fouryears old, and wonderful, not only for its bulk, butfor its sex being doubtful; as had been the case of theone born two years before, at Sinuessa. Aruspices,