OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIU S JOSEPHUS. 241 Hand, I continued feverish that day ; and as the physicians di­rected, I was that night removed to Taricheae. T3. When Sylla and his party were informed what happenedto me, they took courage again ; and understanding that thewatch was negligently kept in our camp, they by night placeda body of horsemen in ambush beyond Jordan, and when it wasday they provoked us to fight; and as we did not refuse it, butcame into the plain, their horsemen appeared out of that ambushin which they had lain, and put our men into disorder, andmade them run away; so they slew six. men of our side. Yetdid they not go off with the victory at last; for when they heardthat some armed men were sailed from Taricheae to Julias, theywere afraid, and retired. 14. It was not now long before Vespasian came to Tyre, andking Agrippa with him ; but the Tyrians began to speak re­proachfully of the king, and called him an enemy to the Ro­mans. For they said, that Philip, the general of his army, hadbetrayed the royal palace, and the Roman forces that were inJerusalem, and that it was done by his command. When Ves­pasian heard of this report, he rebuked the Tyrians for abusinga man who was both a king, and a friend to the Romans; but heexhorted the king to send Philip to Rome, to answer for what hehad done before Nero. But, when Philip was sent thither, hedid not come into the sight of Nero, for he found him very neardeath, on account of the troubles that then happened, and a civilwar ; and so he returned to the king. But, when Vespasian wascome to Ptolemais, the chief men of Decapolis of Syria madea clamour against Justus of Tiberias, because he had set theirvillages 6n fire : so Vespasian delivered him to the king, to beput to death by those under the king's jurisdiction ; yet did theking [only] put him into bonds, and concealed what he had donefrom Vespasian, as I have before related. But the people ofSepphoris met Vespasian, and saluted him, and had forces senthim, with Placidus their commander: he also went up withthem, as I also followed them, till Vespasian came into Galilee.As to which coming of his, and after what manner it was or­dered, and how he fought his first battle with me near the vil­lage Taricheae, and how from thence they went to Jotapata, andhow I was taken alive, and bound, and how I was afterward'loosed, with all that was done by me in the Jewish war, andduring the siege of Jerusalem ; I have accurately related themin the books concerning the War of the Jews. However, itv ill, I think, be fit for me to add now an account of those ac­tions of my life, which I have not related in that book of theJewish War. VOL. III. H h 75.