OCR Output 508 [book xiy ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Antiochus, and Alexander, the son of Dosi-theus, ambassadors of the Jews, good andworthy men, proposed: who came to renewthat league of good will and friendship withthe Romans, which was in being before. Theyalso brought a shield of gold, as a mark ofconfederacy; valued at fifty thousand piecesof gold; and desired that letters might begiven them, directed both to the free cities,and to the kings; that their country and theirhavens might be at peace, and that no oneamong them might receive any injury. Ittherefore pleased the senate to make a leagueof friendship and good will with them; and tobestow on them whatsoever they stood inneed of; and to accept of the shield whichwas brought by them. This was done in the*ninth year of Hyrcanus, the high-priest andethnarch, in the month of Panemus." Hyrcanus also received honours from thepeople of Athens; as having been useful tothem on many occasions. And when theywrote to him, they sent him the followingdecree:— "Under the Prutaneia and priesthood ofDionysius, the son of Esculapius; on the fifthday of the latter part of the month Panemus;this decree of the Athenians was given totheir commanders; when Agathocles wasarchon, and Eucles the son of Menander ofAlimusia was the scribe. In the "fmonthMunychion, on the eleventh day of the Pru­taneia, a council of the presidents was heldin the theatre. Dorotheus the high-priest,and the fellow presidents with him, put it tothe vote of the people; and Dionysius, the sonof Dionysius, gave the sentence. Since Hyr­canus, the son of Alexander, the high-priest,and ethnarch of the Jews, continues to beargood will to our people in general, and toevery one of our citizens in particular, andtreats them with all sorts of kindness; andwhen any of the Athenians come to him, eitheras ambassadors, or on any private occasion,he receives them in an obliging manner, andsees that they are conducted back in safety;of which we have had several former testimo­nies: it is now decreed, at the report of The-odosius, the son of Theodorus, and upon hisputting the people in mind of the virtue of thisman, and that his purpose is to do us all the good that is in his power; to honour him witha crown of gold, the usual reward accordingto the law; and to erect his statue in brassin the temple of Demus and of the gracesand that this present of a crown shall be pro­claimed publicly in the theatre, in the Dio-nysian shows, while the new tragedies areacting; and in the Panathenean, Eleusinian.and Gymnical shows also; and that the com­manders shall take care, while he continuesin his friendship, and preserves his good willto us, to return all possible honour and favourto this man for his affection and generosity.That by this treatment it may appear howour people receive the good kindly, and re­pay them a suitable reward; and he may beinduced to proceed in his affection towardsus, by the honours we have already paid him.That ambassadors be also chosen out of allthe Athenians, who shall carry this decree tohim; and desire him to accept of the honourswe do him; and to endeavour always to bedoing some good to our city." And this shall suffice as to the honours thatwere paid by the Romans, and the people ofAthens to Hyrcanus. CHAP. IX. ANTIPATER BESTOWS THE GOVERNMENT OF GALILEE OSHEROD; AND THAT OF JERUSALEM ON PHASAELUS. BUTHEROD, UPON THE JEWS' ENVY AT ANTIPATER, IS AC­CUSED BEFORE HYRCANUS. NOWJ when Caesar had settled the af­fairs of Syria, he sailed away. And assoon as Antipater had conducted him out ofSyria, he returned to Judea. He then raisedup the wall which had been thrown down byPompey, and by coming thither he pacifiedthat tumult which had been in the country;and this by both threatening, and advisingthem to be quiet. For, he said, if they wereof Hyrcanus's side, they would live happily,and lead their lives without disturbance, inthe enjoyment of their own possessions; butif they were addicted to the hopes of whatmight come by innovation, and aimed to getwealth thereby, they should have him a severemaster, instead of a gentle governor; andHyrcanus a tyrant, instead of a king; andthe Romans, together with Caesar, their bitter * An. 127. t Read here the first of Munychion; and the 10th of the Prutaneia.X An. 44.