OCR Output 902 [book VIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now I cannot but think, that the greatnessof a kingdom, and its change into prosperity,often becomes the occasion of mischief andof transgression to men. For when Reho-boam saw his kingdom so much increased,he went out of the right way into irreligiouspractices, and despised the worship of God;till the people themselves imitated his wickedactions. For so it usually happens, that themanners of subjects are corrupted at thesame time with those of their governors;which subjects then lay aside their own soberway of living, as a reproof of their governors'intemperate courses; and follow their wick­edness, as if it were virtue. For it is notpossible to shew that men approve of theactions of their kings, unless they do thesame actions with them. Agreeably wheretoit now happened to the subjects of Reho-boam; for when he was grown impious,* anda transgressor himself, they endeavoured notto offend him by resolving still to be righteous.But God sent Shishak,t king of Egypt, topunish them for their unjust behaviour to­wards him. Concerning whom Herodotuswas mistaken, and applied his actions toSesostris. For this Shishak,J in the fifth yearof the reign of Rehoboam, made an expe­dition into Judea with many thousand men.For he had one thousand two hundred cha­riots, threescore thousand horsemen, andfour hundred thousand footmen. These hebrought with him; and they were the greaterpart of them Libyans and Ethiopians. Nowtherefore when he fell upon the country ofthe Hebrews, he took the strongest cities ofRehoboam's kingdom, without fighting; andwhen he had put garrisons in them, he camelast of all to Jerusalem.|| While Rehoboam, and the multitude withhim, were shut up in Jerusalem, by the armyof Shishak; and when they besought God togive them victory and deliverance, they could not persuade God to espouse their cause; butShemaiah the prophet told them, that Uodthreatened to forsake them, as they hadthemselves forsaken his worship. YV hen theyheard this, they were in great consternation,and, seeing no way of deliverance, they allearnestly set themselves to confess that Godmight justly overlook them, since they hadbeen guilty of impiety towards him, and hadlet his laws lie in confusion. So when Godsaw them in that disposition, and that theyacknowledged their sins, he told the prophethe would not destroy them; but that he wouldmake them servants to the Egyptians; thatthey might learn whether they would sufferless by serving men or God. So when Shi­shak had taken the city without fighting, be­cause Rehoboam was afraid, and receivedhim into it; he spoiled the temple, andemptied the treasures of God, and those ofthe king, and carried off' innumerable thou­sands of gold and silver; and left nothing atall behind him. He also took away thebucklers of gold, and the shields, whichSolomon the king had made. Nay, he didnot leave the golden quivers which Davidhad taken from the king of Zobab, and haddedicated to God. And when he had thusdone, he returned to his own kingdom. NowHerodotus of Halicarnassus mentions thisexpedition; having only mistaken the king'sname, and in saying that, he made war uponmany other nations also, and brought Syriaof Palestine into subjection; and took themen that were therein prisoners, withoutfighting. Now it is manifest that he intendedto declare our nation was subdued by him;for he saith, that he left behind him pillars inthe land of those that delivered themselvesup to him, without fighting, and engravedupon them symbols of their effeminacy. Nowour king Rehoboam delivered up our citywithout fighting. He says withal, that " The * An. 971. t It may seem something strange, that Shishak, whowas so nearly allied to Rehoboam, should come up againsthim, and take his royal city; but Rehoboam, we must re­member, was not the son of Pharaoh's daughter, andtherefore no relation to Shishak. But, even had he beennever so nearly related, as kingdoms, we know, nevermarry, so, it is likely that Jeroboam, who bad lived longin Egypt, stirred him up to invade his rival, and therebyhe might establish himself in this new kingdom: and forthis reason it was, that, when the armies of Egypt had taken the fenced cities of Jiulah, they returned, withoutgiving Jeroboam, or his dominions, any the least dis­turbance. Patrick's Commentary. T$. I That this Shishak was not the same person with th«famous Sesostris, as some have very lately, in contradiction to all antiquity, supposed; and that our Josephus didnot take him to be the same, as they pretend; but thatSesostris was many centuries earlier than Shishak, seeAuthent. Records, Part II. page 1024, 1025, 1026. andthe authors there cited. II 1 Kings xiv. 25.