OCR Output 430 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. and Epicurus denied to them at least any influence on thefortunes of men. Between these systems and the Romanreligion no alliance was possible; they were proscribed andremained so. Even in Cicero's writings it is declared theduty of a citizen to resist Euhemerism as prejudicial to reli­gious worship; and of the Academics and Epicureans whoappear in his dialogues, the former has to plead the ex­cuse that, while as a philosopher he is a disciple of Carneades,as a citizen and pontifex he is an orthodox confessor of theCapitoline Jupiter, and the Epicurean has even ultimately tosurrender and be converted. No one of these three systemswas in any proper sense popular. The plain intelligible cha­racter of Euhemerism exerted doubtless a certain power ofattraction over the Romans, and in particular produced onlytoo deep an effect on the conventional history of Rome withits at once childish and senile resolution of fable into history;but it remained without material influence on the Roman re­ligion, because the latter from the first dealt only in allegoryand not in fable, and it was not possible in Rome as inHellas to write biographies of Zeus the first, second, andthird. The modern sophistry could only succeed whereclever volubility was indigenous, as in Athens, and where,moreover, the long series of philosophical systems thathad come and gone had accumulated huge piles of intel­lectual rubbish. Against the Epicurean quietism, in fine,everything revolted that was sound and honest in theRoman character thoroughly devoted as it was to action. Yetit found more partisans than Euhemerism and the sophisticschool, and this was probably the reason why the policecontinued to wage war against it longest and most seriously.But this Roman Epicureanism was not so much a philosophicsystem as a sort of philosophical mask, under which—verycontrary to the purpose of its strictly moral founder—thoughtless sensual enjoyment dressed itself out for goodsociety; one of the earliest adherents of this sect, for in­stance, Titus Albucius figures in the poems of Lucilius asthe prototype of the Roman Hellenizing amiss.Roman Far different were the position and influence of the Stoic stoa. philosophy in Italy. In direct contrast to these schools it attached itself to the religion of the land as closely, asscience can at all accommodate itself to faith. To thepopular faith with its gods and oracles the Stoic adhered onprinciple, inasmuch as he recognized in it an instinctive