OCR Output 154 ROMAN EMPIRE. the limits of the empire were enlarged in Europe andAsia; and the Comnenian sceptre was transmitted tohis children of the third and fourth generation. Yetthe difficulties of the times betrayed some defects in hischaracter, and have exposed his memory to some justor ungenerous reproach. The reader may possibly smileat the lavish praise which his daughter so often bestowson a flying hero: the weakness or prudence of his situa­tion might be mistaken for a want of personal courage;and his political arts are branded by the Latins with thenames of deceit and dissimulation. The increase of themale and female branches of his family adorned thethrone and secured the succession: but their princelyluxury and pride offended the patricians, exhausted therevenue, and insulted the misery of the people. Annais a faithful witness that his happiness was destroyed,and his health was broken, by the cares of a public life:the patience of Constantinople was fatigued by the lengthand severity of his reign; and before Alexius expired,he had lost the love and reverence of his subjects. Theclergy could not forgive his application of the sacredriches to the defence of the state; but they applaudedhis theological learning and ardent zeal for the orthodoxfaith, which he defended with his tongue, his pen, andhis sword. His character was degraded by the supersti­tion of the Greeks: and the same inconsistent principleof human nature enjoined the emperor to found a hos­pital for the poor and infirm, and to direct the execu­tion of a heretic, who was burnt alive in the square ofSt. Sophia. Even the sincerity of his moral and reli­gious virtues was suspected by the persons who hadpassed their lives in his familiar confidence. In his lasthours, when he was pressed by his wife Irene to alterthe succession, he raised his head, and breathed a piousejaculation on the vanity of this world. The indignantreply of the empress may be inscribed as an epitaph onhis tomb, You die as you have lived—A HYPOCRITE!