OCR Output 170 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. the man who had been betrayed, but gave orders that hisson, Congonnetiacus, should likewise be sent to Rome.This seems to have been the reason why the Arvernian war,already almost at an end, once more broke out, and asecond appeal to arms took place at Vindalium (aboveAvignon) at the confluence of the Sorgue with the Rhone.The result was not different from that of the first: on thisoccasion it was chiefly the African elephants that scatteredthe Celtic army. Thereupon the Arverni submitted to peace,and tranquillity was restored in the land of the Celts.*Province of The result of these military operations was the institutionNarbo. of a new Roman province between the maritime Alps andthe Pyrenees. All the tribes between the Alps and theEhone became dependent on the Romans and, so far as theydid not pay tribute to Massilia, probably became now tribu­taries of Rome. In the country between the. Rhone andthe Pyrenees the Arverni retained freedom and were notbound to pay tribute to the Romans; but they had to cedeto Rome the most southerly portion of their direct or indi­rect territory—the district to the south of the Cevennes asfar as the Mediterranean, and the upper course of theGaronne as far as Tolosa (Toulouse). As the primaryobject of these occupations was the establishment of a landcommunication between Italy and Spain, arrangements weremade immediately thereafter for the construction of the roadalong the coast. For this purpose a belt of coast from theAlps to the Rhone, from 1 to If of a mile in breadth, washanded over to the Massiliots, who already had a series ofmaritime stations along this coast, with the obligation ofkeeping the road in proper condition; while from the Rhoneto the Pyrenees the Romans themselves laid out a militaryhighway, which obtained from its originator Ahenobarbusthe name of Via Domitia.Roman set- As usual, the formation of new fortresses was combinedtlements in with the construction of roads. In the eastern portion the region of the Rhone. * The battle at Vindalium is placed by the epitomator of Livy and byOrosius before that on the Isara; but the reverse order is supported by Florusand Strabo (iv. 191), and is confirmed partly by the circumstance thatMaximus, according to the Epitome of Livy and Pliny H. N., vii. 50, foughtit when consul, partly and especially by the Capitoline Fasti, according towhich Maximus not only triumphed before Ahenobarbus, but the formertriumphed over the Allobroges and the king of the Arverni, the latter onlyover the Arverni. It is clear that the battle with the Allobroges and Arvernimust have taken place earlier than that with the Arverni alone.