OCR Output kjp THE DECLINE AND FALL they professed. But the scandal of the pious Christian, and the fal­lacious triumph of the Infidel, should cease as soon as they recol­lect not only by ivhom, but likewise to 'whom, the Divine Reve­lation was given. The theologian may indulge the pleasing taskof describing Religion as she descended from Heaven, arrayed inher native purity. A more melancholy duty is imposed on the his­torian. He must discover the inevitable mixture of error and cor­ruption, which she contracted in a long residence upon earth,,among a weak and degenerate race of beings.Five causes of Our curiosity k naturally prompted to inquire by what meansChrManity. the Christian faith obtained so remarkable a victory over the esta­blished religions of the earth. To this inquiry, an obvious butsatisfactory answer may be returned, That it was owing to the con­vincing evidence of the doctrine itself, and to the ruling providenceof its great Author. But as truth and reason seldom find so favour­able a reception in the world, and as the wisdom of Providence fre­quently condescends to use the passions of the human heart, andthe general circumstances of mankind, as instruments to execute itspurpose; we may still be permitted, though with becoming sub­mission, to ask, not indeed what were the first, but what were thesecondary causes of the rapid growth of the Christian church. Itwill, perhaps, appear, that it was most effectually favoured andassisted by the five following causes: I. The inflexible,, and, if wemay use the expression, the intolerant zeal of the Christians, de­rived, it is true, from the Jewish religion, but purified from thenarrow and unsocial spirit, which, instead of inviting, had deterredthe Gentiles from embracing the law of Moses. II. The doctrineof a future life, improved by every additional circumstancewhich could give weight and efficacy to that important truth. III. The miraculous powers ascribed to the primitive church.. IV. The pure and austere morals of the Christians. V. The unionand discipline of the Christian republic, which gradually formed , an 3