OCR Output 2I4 THE DECLINE AND FALL that all this blaze of imaginary glory, was designed to conceal somereal disgrace. More proba- Our suspicions are confirmed by the authority of a contemporaryIf'thewar.' historian, who mentions the virtues of Alexander with respect, andhis faults with candour. He describes the judicious plan which hadbeen formed for the conduct of the war. Three Roman armieswere destined to invade Persia at the fame time, and by differentroads. But the operations of the campaign, though wisely con­certed, were not executed either with ability or success. The first,of these armies, as soon as it had entered the marflvy plains of Ba­bylon, towards the artificial conflux of the Euphrates and theTigris 5°, was encompassed by the superior numbers, and destroyedby the arrows of the enemy. The alliance of Chosroes king ofArmenia s', and the long tract of mountainous country, in whichthe Persian cavalry was of little service, opened a secure entranceinto the heart of Media, to the second of the Roman armies. Thesebrave troops laid waste the adjacent provinces, and by several success­ful actions against Artaxerxes, gave a faint colour to the emperor'svanity. But the retreat of this victorious army was imprudent,or at least unfortunate. In repasting the mountains, great numbersof soldiers perished by the badness of the roads and the severityof the winter season. It had been resolved, that whilst these twogreat detachments penetrated into the opposite extremes of the Per­sian dominions, the main body, under the command of Alexanderhimself, should support their attack, by invading the center of thekingdom. But the unexperienced youth, influenced by his mother'scounsels, and perhaps by his own fears, deserted the bravest troopsand' the fairest prospect of victory; and after consuming in Meso­potamia an inactive and inglorious summer, he led back to Antiochan army diminished by sickness, and provoked by disappointment.The behaviour of Artaxerxes had been very different. Flying withrapidity from the hills of Media to the marshes of the Euphrates, he