OCR Output LIMYRA. LINDUS 193 would contain 20,000 spectators, from Which estimatewe most conclude that the dimensions and outline ofthe building can be accurately determined. M. Du-four says: "On the level of the present soil, thereare some vestiges of the corridors or covered por­ticoes, which led, by means of the vomitoria, into thedifferent galleries: the part which is least damagedat present is in the stables of the Hotel d'Evreux. Aprincipal arch, which led into the arena, is stillnearly entire, though the interior facings have beenilmost completely, removed." [G. L.] Ll'MYRA (Aiuvpa or Atfiipa), a town in thesouthern part of Lycia, on the river Limyrus, twentystadia above its mouth. (Strab. xiv. p. 656; comp.ScyL p 39; Ptol. v. 3. § 6; Steph. B. s. v.) Vel-1'ius Paterculus (ii. 102) states that Caius Caesar,the adopted son of Augustus, died at Limyra. It isoften mentioned by Roman writers, as Ovid (Met.ix. 546), Mela (i. 15), and continued to exist downto i late period. (Basil. M. Kpat. 218; Hierocl.p. 683.) Ruins of Limyra were first discovered byCaptain Beaufort above Cape Fineka; but it wasrewired for Sir Charles Fellows to explore and de­scribe them more minutely. In his first work(Journal of an Excursion in Asia Minor, p. 214)he only says: "two miles across the little valley, atthe foot of the mountains, and up their sides, laythe rains of the ancient Limyra, its theatre, temples,sod walls." But in his later work (Account ofDitmreries in Lycia, p. 205, foil.), he fully entersinto a description of the remains of the place, illus­trated by fine engravings and copies of some of themay inscriptions, both Greek and Lycian, in whichIbr place abounds. In describing the approach tothe town, he says, that first he found a fine statelyfsrcnpbagus, with a bilingual inscription. "Hundredsof tombs cnt in the rocks, and quite excavating thel*flg ribs of its protruding strata, as they curveddown the aides of the mountain, soon came in view... -The inscriptions were almost all Lycian,— some fewGrwk, but these were always inferior in execution,wme bein£ merely scratched upon the surface; whileute Lycian were cut deeply in the stone, and manyrichly coloured, — the letters being alternately redtad bine, or in others green, yellow, or red." Some•i these tombs contain beautiful bas-reliefs, repre­senting stories from Greek mythology. Beyondthese tombs lies the city, "marked by many foun-listions, and by a loot; wall with towers. Furtherr* is a very pretty theatre, ... the size of whichSpeaks a small population." The whole neigh*1-whood, however, is filled with tombs cut in therocks. (Comp, Leake, Asia Minor, p. 186.) [L. S.]LIMYTUCA. [IsniA, p. 47, a.]LIMYRUS (o Alfivpos"), a river on the southfeast of Lycia, which, after receiving the waters ofits tribntary Arycandus (/Vixifco), becomes navigablet 'be point where Limyra is situated. It falls into'be sea. at a distance of 90 stadia west of tho holypromontory, and 60 stadia from Melanippe. (Scyl.r »; Strab. xiv. p. 666; Ptol. v. 3. § 3.) PlinyI'. 28) and Mela (L 15) call the river Li-"irra, and the Stadiasmus Maris Magni (§ 211)Aforrru, which is no doubt a mistake. Leake(I'm Jfmor, p. 187) states that both the Limyrus**! the Arycandus reach the sea at no great distancemm each other; while in the map of Lycia by Sprat t'k* Limyrus is the smaller river, and a tributary tolbs Arjcandna. Both these statements are opposed'-■> 'Jie testimony of Pliny, whose words are: "Limyra"on unoe in quern Arycandus influit." [L. S.] VOL. II. LINDUM (Ah/Joy). 1. A town in Britain; themodem Lincoln. Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 20) assignsLindum and Rage, or Ratae, to the district of theCoritani. In the list of the anonymous Geographerof Ravenna it appears as Lindnm Colonia; in theItinerary of Antoninus, simply as Lindnm. Amongthe prelates who attended the Synod of Aries, A. D.314, was "Adelfius de civitate colonia Londinen-sium," which we must read Lindinensium, for at thesame council London was represented by Restitutus;and that Lincoln was a colony may be accepted fromthe authority cited above, and also from the form inwhich the word occurs in Beda (Hist. Eccles. ii.16, "Civitas Lindocolina.") Lindum occurs inAntoninus in the iter from Londinium to the greatWall; in that from Ebnracum to Londininm; andin another from Londinium, in which it is theterminus. The Roman remains extant at Lincoln are amongthe most important and interesting in this country.It is perhaps the only town in Kngland which pre­serves one of the original Roman gateways in use atthe present day. This is the Newport Gate, whichis wholly of Roman masonry, as is also the narrowside entrance for foot passengers. Originally therewere two of the latter, but one is walled up in amodern building. Another of the Roman gatewayswas discovered, a few years since, near the castle.There is also £ long extent of the Roman sewerremaining at Lincoln, and a considerable number ofinscriptions, chiefly sepulchral. The Mint Wall, asit is called, is a side wall of a Roman edifice, ap­parently of a public description. From the courseof the remains of the external walls, the Romansseem to have found it necessary to extend the cir-cumvallation of Lindum. 2. A town of the Daninii, in the northern part ofBritain, placed by Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 9) a little to thenorth of the Clyde. Hursley suggests Kirkintilloch,on the Wall of Antoninus Pius, as the site of thisLinxlmn. [C. R. S.] LINDUS (AiVSos : Eth. Alyitos: Lindos), one ofthe most important and most ancient towns in theisland of Rhodes, was situated on the eastern coast,«, little to the north of a promontory bearing thesame name. The district was in ancient times veryproductive in wine and tigs, though otherwise itwas, and is still, very barren. (Philostr. Icon.ii. 24.) In the Homeric Catalogue (//. ii. 656)Lindus, together with the two other Rhodian cities,Ialysus and Camirus, are said to have taken part inthe war against Troy. Their inhabitants were Do­rians, and formed the three Dorian tribes of the island,Lindus itself being of one the Dorian hexapolis inthe south-west of Asia Minor. Previous to the yearB. c. 408, when Rliodes was built, Lindus, like theother cities, formed a little state by itself, bnt whenRhodes was founded, a great part of the populationand the common government was transferred to thenew city. (Diod. xii. 75.) Lindus, however, thoughit lost its political importance, still remained an inte­resting place in a religions point of view, for it con­tained two ancient and much revered sanctuaries,—one of Athena, hence called the Lindian, and theother of Heracles. The former was believed tohave been built by Danaus (Diod. v. 58; Callim.Fraom. p. 477, ed. Ernesti), or, according to others,by his daughters on their flight from Egypt. (Herod,ii. 182; Strab. xiv. p. 655; comp. Plin. II. N.xxxiii. 23; Act. Apost. xvii. 17.) The temple ofHeracles was remarkable, according to Lactantiiis