OCR Output CHAP. H. ROMAN HISTORY. 219 in opposing the levies, did the Patricians exert in oppos­ing the law, which wasconstantly proposed every comi-tial day. A quarrel arose, when the tribunes ordered thepeople to leave the forum, from which, the Patnciauswould, by no means, suffer themselves to be removed. As the debates in these assemblies were not managedwith temper, the aged senators seldom appeared there,leaving the conduct of the opposition, to the rash andaudacious young nobles. For some time, too, the consulskept away, for fear of exposing the dignity of their officeto insult, in such a mixed convention. There was oneCaeso Quinctius, a young nobleman of high spirit, withwhich, his high birth, extraordinary size, and greatstrength, inspired him. To these advantages the godshad bestowed upon him, he had added many honoursgained in war, and was an excellent speaker, so that the. republic could not boast of a better soldier, or a greaterorator. This youth, when enriched by his band of nobles,was always most conspicuous; and as if his strength andeloquence had mvested him with all consular, and evendictatorial power, he boldly sustained the storms of thetribunes, and fury of the mob. Under his conduct, thetribunes had been frequently driven out of the forum,and the rabble dispersed and put to flight Whoeveroffered to resist, did not fail to be roughly handled andstripped naked. Hence, they easily saw, that unless hegot a severe check, their exertions to promote the lawwould signify nothing. When the other tribunes had given over all for lost,one of their number, A Virginius, summoned Caeso,against a certain day, to be tried capitally. This step,far from abating, served only to enflame the courage ofthis impetuous youth. He still persisted in opposing thelaw with more vehemence than ever, redoubled hisin-sblts of the plebeians, and attacked the tribunes withoutany reserve, as having then a just cause for making warupon them. His accuser, after his impeachment, suf­fered him to go every length, that by his outrages, hemight increase the odium against him, and furnish themwith new matter of grievance. In the mean time, he continued to push the law, notso much from any hopes he had of carrying it, as to