OCR Output 408 ROMAN EMPIRE. founded; the walls of Edessa and Amida, of Dara andNisibis, which had resisted the arms and engines ofSapor or Nushirvan, were levelled in the dust: and theholy city of Abgarus might vainly produce the epistleof the image of Christ to an unbelieving conqueror. Tothe west the Syrian kingdom is bounded by the sea; andthe ruin of Aradus, a small island or peninsula on thecoast, was postponed during ten years. But the hills ofLibanus abounded in timber, the trade of Phoenicia waspopulous in mariners; and a fleet of seventeen hundredbarks was equipped and manned by the natives of thedesert. The imperial navy of the Romans fled beforethem from the Pamphylian rocks to the Hellespont; butthe spirit of the emperor, a grandson of Heraclius, hadbeen subdued before the combat by a dream and a pun.'The Saracens rode masters of the sea; and the islandsof Cyprus, Rhodes, and the Cyclades, were successivelyexposed to their rapacious visits. Three hundred yearsbefore the Christian era, the memorable, though fruit­less, siege of Rhodes,b by Demetrius, had furnished thatmaritime republic with the materials and the subject ofa trophy. A gigantic statue of Apollo, or the sun, seventycubits in height, was erected at the entrance of the har­bour, a monument of the freedom and the arts of Greece.After standing fifty-six years, the colossus of Rhodeswas overthrown by an earthquake; but the massy trunk,and huge fragments, lay scattered eight centuries on theground, and are often described as one of the wondersof the ancient world. They were collected by the'diligence of the Saracens, and sold to a Jewish a He dreamt that he was at Thessalonica—a harmless and unmeaning vision;but his soothsayer or his cowardice understood the sure omen of a defeat concealedin that inauspicious word, e»o uXXv muir. Give to another the victory. (Theophan.p. 286. Zonaras, torn. 2. lib. 14. pi 88.) h Every passage and every fact that relates to the isle, the city, and the colossusof Rhodes, are compiled in the laborious treatise of Meursius, who has bestowedthe same diligence on the two larger islands of Crete and Cyprus. See in the thirdVolume of his works, the Rhodia of Meursius. (lib. 1. c. 15. p. 715—719.) TheByzantine writers, Theophanes and Constantino, have ignorantly prolonged theterm to one thousand three hundred and sixty years, and ridiculously divide theweight among thirty thousand camels.