OCR Output SAGALASSUS. SAGRUS. 873 SAGALASSCS (2o7oXa<r«r<t: Eth. Zaya-2a-)oAa^oijK)s). an important townnear Uie north-western frontier ofI'ju.iu, or, as Strabo (xii. p. 569) less correctly>U <9, of Isauria, wliile Ptolemy (v. 3. § 6) erro-r-4iMlj mentions it among the towns of Lycia.C"-nB. Steph. 11. ». *.) Alexander the Great-4 the tuwo by assault, having previously defeateda brave Pisalian inhabitants, who met the aggressorr*»n np on a hill outside their town. (Arrian,Lao*, i. SS.) Livy (xxxviii. 1J), in his account of*■ rxprdition of Cn. Manlius, describes Sagalassus • *.tuxlnl in a fertile plain, abounding in everyof produce; he likewise characterises its in-ilaas the bravest of the Pisidians, and the m itatlf as most strongly fortified. Manlius did • take it, but by ravaging its territory com-ijr.1 the Sagalassians to come to terms, to pay oauribution of 50 talents, 20,000 medimni ofirrtu and the same quantity of barley. Straboatn tint it was one of the chief to*Da of Pisidia,•~ lint after passing under the dominion of Atnyn-s, fttrarch of Lycaonia and Galatia, it became/ [lie Roman province. He adds that it was>ne day's march from Apainea, whereas wetra from Arrian that Alexander was five days on» road between the two towns ; but the detentiontie- latter was not occasioned by the length of theat bat by other circumstances, so that Strabo'sawut ia not opposed to that of Arrian. (Comp.*»». nil. 19; Plin. v. 24.) The town is men­us! sUn by Hierocles (p. 693), in the Ecclesi-taral Notice*, and the Acts of Councils, from which•;-peara to have been an episcopal see.The traveller I.ucas (Trois i'oyagei, i. p. 181,I ,W Voyage, i. c. 34) was the first that re-'»! the existence of extensive ruins at a placeAgltuotm, and the resemblance of the name tiTi to identify these ruins with the site of the r-i: Sai;ala»us. This conjecture has since beenit < a.-inoeJ by Arundell (A Vuit to tie Sevenmrcmet, p. 132, foil.), who describes these ruinsMiffed an the long terrace of a lofty mountain,V aSure tlie village of AyUuoun, and consisting it ,4 massy walls, heaps of sculptured stones,e numerable sepulchral vaults in the almostp»i>i>i-uLir side of the mountain. A little loweri lix terrace are considerable remains of a largeaLcc, and a large paved oblong area, full ofei v Jumrw. pedestal*, &c, about 240 feet long;artaco nearly 300 feet long and 27 wide; and be-l llui bow magnificent remains either of afir or a gymnasium. Above these rises a steep • ilk a lew remains on the top, which was pro-\f Ua* acr.-polls. There is also a large theatrei torn state of preservation. Inscriptions with »jrd» laryaXaoatuv t6Kii leave no doubtl> these noble ruins belonging to tlio ancientt V Sagala&sus. (Comp. liainilton, Besearchet, l p. 4*6, foil.; Fellows, Asia Minor, p. 164,) [L (A] AGAXUS (Sayavdt, Marcian, PeripL p. 21., ed.kali), a small river on the coast of Carmania,[i &M> atsxiia from Harmuza. It is mentioned try Ptolemy (vi. 8. § 4), and Pliny (vi. 25). It-..'iiUy lite saxne stream which is called by Am­ies MarreUinas, Sagauis (xxiii. 6). Vincent»• tiavt it may be represented by a small rivera Duera into the Perttan Gulf, near Uomeroon.f. *f Xemmkmi, rol. i. p. 370). [V.]lUA'P<-*x.A QXerfd-woAa ul. SayairoAa opot, Ptol. it. 6. §§ 8,14,16,17), a mountain of Interior Libya, from which flows the Subiis, the position ofwhich is fixed by Ptolemy (I. c.) 13° E. long., 22°N. lut. It may be assumed that the divergentwhich Ptolemy describes as ascending to this moun­tain from the Nigeir is one of the tributaries whichflow into the Djoliba or Quorra, from the high­lands to the N. of that river (comp. Journ, Geog.Soc. vol. ii. p. 13.) [E. B. J.] 8AGARAUCAE. [Sacahauu.] SAGAUIS, a river of European Sarm.it ki (Ov.ex Pont. iv. 1047), which has been assumed, fromthe name, to have discharged itself into the SuiusSagarils. (Plin. iv. 26.) [E. B. J.] SAGA'RTH. [Pkrsis.] SAG1DA (ii-yita or layijSo, PtoLvii. l.§ 71),a metropolis of Central India, which is perhaps theI same as the present Sohajpur, near the sources ofthe river Sonne [V.] SACK AS (4 Zdypas, Strab. vi. p. 261), a river ofBruttium, on the K. coast of the peninsula, to theS. of Caulonia, between that city and I.ocri. It iscelebrated in history for the great battle fought onits banks, in which an army of 130,000 Crotoniatsis said to have been totally defeated by 10,000 Ib­erians: an event regarded as so extraordinary thatit |*ssed into a kind of proverb for something thatappeared incredible, though true. (aAnOfiTf/jci T»»•VI Za>a, Suid. t.v.; Strab. vi. p. 261; Cir. tie Ar.D. iii. 5; Justin, xx. 3; Plin. iii. 10. s. 15.) Thevictory was ascribed by the Locrians to the directintervention of the Dioscuri, to whom they in con­sequence erected altars on the banks of the river,which were apparently still extant in the time ofStrabo. It was added that the news of the victorywas miraculously conveyed to the Greeks assembledat Olympia the same day that the battle wus fought.(Strab. /. c.; Cic de N. I), ii. 2.) But notwith­standing the celebrity thus attached to it, the dateand occasion of the battle are very uncertain: andthe circumstances connected with it by Strabo andJustin would lead to opposite conclusions. [Ctto-tona.] The date assigned by Hcyne is B c. 560,while Strabo certainly seems to imply that it tookplace after the fall of Sybaris in n. c. 510. (Grotc'sGreece, vol. iv. p. 552, note.) But whatever un­certainty prevailed concerning the battle, it seemscertain that the Sagras itself wus a well knownstream in the days of Strabo and Pliny; both ofwhom concur in placing it to the N. of Locri and S.of Caulonia, and as the latter city was a colony andperhaps a dependency of Crotona, it is probable thatthe battle would be fought between it and LncrLUnfortunately the site of Caulonia cannot be de­termined [Caulonia], and we are therefore quiteat a loss which of the small streams flowing into thesea between Locri and the Pwita di Stilo should boidentified with the celebrated Sagras. The Alarohas been generally fixed upon by local writers, buthas really no better claim than any other. (Iio-manelli, vol. i. p. 161; Swinburne's Tractlt, vol. i.p. 340.). [E. H. B ] SAGKUS (Safffot : Sangro), one of the mostconsiderable of the rivers of Sauinium, which has itssources in the lofty group of the Apennines S. of theiMgo di Facino, and lias a course of above 70 milesfrom thence to the Adriatic. It flows at first in aSE. direction, passes under the walls of AufiJena aswell as of the modern CatUl di Sangro, and in thispart of its course flows through a broad and level,but upland valley, bounded on both sides by lofty