OCR Output TERINAEUS SINUS. 1131 TERMESSUS. ir; bnt before the close of the war that general [nd himself compelled to abandon this part of,:\hm, and destroyed Terina, when ho could nojtr hold it (Strab. vi. p. 456.) The city■or recovered this blow; and though there seemsbeen still a town of the name in existenceIttdiTs of Strabo and Pliny, it never again rows:* x plane of any importance. (Strab. L e.; Plin.5. s. 10.) An inscription in which its name*urs in the reign of Trajan (Orcll. Inscr. 150)a til probability spurious. [ne site of Terina cannot be determined withattaintt; but the circumstance that the ex-ure bay now known as the Gvlf of Sin Eufemiafrequently called the SiNU8 Tkrinaki s (Plin..* a. 10; A TtpuHUot koAtot, Thuc. vi. 104),ritTitly proves that Terina must have been situ-f in its immediate proximity. The most probablelecture is, that it occupied nearly, if not exactly,*4!T»e site as the old town of Sta Eufemia (whichdestroyed by a great earthquake in 1638), uboutti;r below the modem village of the name, andr the N. extremity of the gulf to which it givesurn*. Cluverius and other antiquarians haveM it considerably further to the N., near therm A'ocrra, where there are said to be the • of an ancient city (Cluver. Ital, p. 1287;rioa, oV Sit Calabr. ii. 10. p. 124); but this'» above 7 miles distant from the gulf, to whichj:M hardly therefore have given name. There•) reason to suppose that the ruins in question•bse of a town which bore in ancient times ther 1 «f Nucerm, which it still retains with littleition. [Nccf.kia, No. 4.]nephron seems to place Terina on the bunks rrrer, which he names OciNAitrs ('ftKhtuwM,•por. Alex. 729, 1009); and this name, which< tand elsewhere, has lieen generally identified rbr river now called the Sarttto (the Sit bat us*f Itineraries), which flows by Xocera. But1 notification rests on the position assumed furaa: and the name of the Ocinarus may be.'!y well applied to any of the streams fullingthe Gmifo/Sta Eufemia.be variety and beauty of the silver coin* ofaa (which belong for the most part to the best•1 <■*" Greek art), has been already alluded to. • injed female figure on the reverse, thoughwily called a Victory, is more probably in-rd fur the Siren Ligeia. [E. H. Ii.] con or tkiuxa. KRfNAEUS SINUS. [HiProMATKs Sinus.]KRl'OLA CASTRA or TKRI'OLIS, a fortress«-' ii. mentioned only in the Notitia Imperii,memHy identified with the castle near J/erw»,which many Roman remains are found. (Comp.ksojen, BescAreib. der Hum. Hetrstrasse, vonwa *< m *> A*g*bury, p. 86.) [L. S.] INTIA [Termks.JKKMERA (riTfpM'pa or T*pu«por: Eth.Ttpp*-1, a maritime town of Caria, un the south coast of the peninsula of Hulicarnassus, near Cape Ter-meriuin. (Herod, v. 37; Strab. xiv. p. 657; Plin. v. 29; Steph. B. a. r„ who erroneously assigns th«town to Lyeia.) Under the ltomans this Doriantown was a free city. According to Suidas (a. v )the place gave rise to the proverbial expressionTtpfitpia Hand, it being used as a prison by tberulers of Caria; but his remark that it was situatedbetween Melos and Halicarnassus is unintelligible.Cramer sup|jo*es its site to be marked by the mo­dern L'orbtujlar or Gvmixhln, [L. S.] TERMERE (Ttppipn). a place of uncertain site,mentioned only by I'tolemy (v. 2. § 16) as situatedin the extreme north of Lydia, in the district Cata-cecaumene, near the two sources of the river Her­nias. [L. S.JTERMERIUM. [Termkra.]TERMES (T*>u€f, PtoL ii. 6. § 56), a townof the Arevaci in Hispania TarracottensLs. it isprobably the same town called Tfppno'o'f and Tfp-uavria by Appian (vi. 76 and 99). The inhabit­ants are called Tennestini in Livy (Epit. liv.) andTacitus {Ann. iv. 45; cf. coins in S'rtini, p. 208).Termes was seated on a steep hill, and was oftenbesieged without success by the Romans, till at lastthe inhabitants, on account of their hostile dispositiontowards Rome, were com jelled in n. c. 97 to builda new city on the plain and without walls (App. vi. 99). It lay undoubtedly on the site of the pre­sent Ermittt de nwstra Stnora de Termed, 9 leaguesW. of Numantia. [T. H. D.] TERMESSUS (Tepuno-trof, T*puijooj, TtpptoAi,Ttpfitffffdi, TtAjUtffff^j: Eth. Tippyaatm), a townof I'i&idia, celebrated for its natural strength no Jessthan for its artificial fortifications, was situated <>n aheight of Mount Taunts, at the entrance of the de­files which are traversed by the river Catarrhactes,and formed tbe means of communication betweenPitidia, Pamphytia, and Lycia. (Strab. xiii. p. 630,xiv. p. 666; Ptol. v. 5. § 6, viii. 17. § 34; Polyb.xxii. 18; Steph. B. *. r.; Dion. Per. 859.) A peakof the mountain rising above the acrojHtlis bore thename of Solymus; and the inhabitants of thetown itself were, as Strabo says, called Sulyini.They were certainly not Greeks, for Arrian (i.27) distinctly calls them I'isidians and barba­rians. Their town stood on a lofty height, pre­cipitous on all sides; and the road running closeby the place was very difficult, passing through anarrow gorge, which could be defended by a Mnallforce. Alexander the Great succeeded indeed inforcing his way through it, but despairing of thejx'ssibility of taking Termessus, he continued hisinarch. Strabo (xiv. p. 666) thetefore seems to bomistaken in stating that Alexander conquered theplace. The consul Manlius, after relieving Isiunda,passed along the same road. (Liv. xxxviii. 15.)The town of Termessus continued to exist down toa late period, when it was the see of a Christianbishop, who also had the administration of tvu.neighbouring places, Jovia and Eudocia. (Hierocl.p. 680 ) Tbe site of ancient Tcnneasus has notbeen difficult to discover by modern travellers, awlconsiderable remains still exist at Korabvnar A'rui,at the foot of the height on which the ancient fur-tress was situated. (Leake, A*kt Minor, pp. 133— 135.) As to the coins of Termessus, whichcome down as far as the reign of the emperorSeverus, see Sestini, p. 96. On some of thesecoins we read psifeVwr in addition to the name ofI the Terniewians, a circumstance which cuutirm* the