OCR Output 344 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK. IV. once more to be created dictator. Tlf named for masterof (he horse A. Posihumius Tubertus^and preparationswere made for the war, with a vigour proportioned to theforce of all Etruna, compared to thai of only two of itsconstituent parts. •-" CHAP. XXIV. The Dictator passes a popular law, which is highly resentedby the Censors. .DUT this affair created less disturbance than was ge­nerally expected: wherefore, when advices were broughtby the merchants, that the Etrurians had refused to beconcerned with the Vejentes, telling them, since they hadengaged in a war, without consulting them, they mustcarry it on without their assistance, and not involve thosein their misfortune?, whom they excluded from their hopesin more promising days. The dictator then, thus disappointed in his expectationof military glory, that he might not seem to have beencreated in vain, wished to leave a monument of his dicta­torship in time of ps:ace; and, with that view, set aboutreducing the privileges of the censors; either because hethought their power too extensive, or perhaps because bewas less dissatisfied with the greatness of their honoursthan the time of their duration. Therefore, having cal­led an assembly, he represented, 'That as the immortalgods had takpn upon themselves the charge of the re­public's affairs abroad, under whose protection theymig-ht rest secure; it was his business to attend to theliberty of the people, which could only be done with­in the walls of the city. That lor this purpose, he hadto observe, that it was a matter of the last importance,to take care, that the great offices of the state shouldnot continue long in the same hivnds, and that boundsbe set to the duration of employments, to the powerannexed to which, all limitation is impossible. Thatall other offices were annual, the censorship alone quin­quennial. That it was intolerable to live for so manyyears exposed to the power of the same persons. Thattherefore, he was to propose a law restricting the cen­sorship to the continuance of eighteen months.*