OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 295 sincerity of that people, both on account of many in­stances of treacherous behavior, and particularly,though the others through length of time might havebeen forgotten, on account of the recent perfidy of theBoians. Sempronius, on the contrary, was of opi­nion that it would be the strongest tie on the fidelityof the allies to let them see that the first who stood inneed of aid had found protection. He then, while hiscolleague hesitated, despatched his own cavalry, joinedby one thousand foot, mostly light spearmen, over theTrebia, to protect the lands of the Gauls. These fall­ing unexpectedly on the enemy, while they werestraggling in disorder, and most of them loaded withspoil, caused great consternation, slew many, anddrove the rest flying before them to their camp.Though repulsed by the multitude which sallied out,yet, as soon as the rest of their party came up, theyagain renewed the fight. Success afterwards remaineddoubtful; sometimes they retreated, sometimes pur­sued ; but though at last the advantages were equalon both sides, yet the honor of the victory was moregenerally attributed to the Romans. 53. But to no one did it appear more important andcomplete than to the consul himself. He was transportedwith joy, at having obtained a victory with that part ofthe troops which, under his associate, had been defeated.' The spirits of the soldiers,' he said ' were now re­vived ; nor was there any one, except his colleague,who wished a delay of action. He, more disorderedin mind than in body, and reflecting on his wound,shuddered at the thoughts of fighting and of arms.But others ought not to sink into feebleness along witha sick man: for to what purpose was farther delay orwaste of time ? What third consul or what other armywas to be waited for ? The Carthaginians were en­camped in Italy, almost within sight of the city. Theirdesigns did not aim at Sicily and Sardinia, which weretaken from them, nor at the parts of Spain on this sideof the Iberus, but at the expulsion of the Romans from