OCR Output 3i* THE DECLINE AND FALL Persian monarch. The triumphal car of Aurelian, (it had formerly-been used by a Gothic king) was drawn, on this memorable occasion,either by four stags or by four elephantst0. The most illustrious of thesenate, the people, and the army, closed the solemn procession. Un­feigned joy, wonder and gratitude, swelled the acclamations of themultitude; but the satisfaction of the senate was clouded by theappearance of Tetricus; nor could they suppress a rising murmur,that the haughty emperor mould thus expose to public ignominythe person of a Roman and a magistrateHis treat- But however, in the treatment of his unfortunate rivals, Aure-uicus and lian might indulge his pride, he behaved towards them with a ge-1 1' nerous clemency, which was seldom exercised by the ancient con­querors. Princes who, without success, had defended their throneor freedom, were frequently strangled in prison, as soon as the tri­umphal pomp ascended the capitol. These usurpers, whom their defeathad convicted of the crime of treason, were permitted to spend theirlives in affluence and honourable repose. The emperor presented Ze-nobia with an elegant villa at Tibur, or Tivoli, about twenty milesfrom the capital; the Syrian queen insensibly sunk into a Romanmatron, her daughters married into noble families, and her racewas not yet extinct in the fifth century 8\ Tetricus and his sonwere reinstated in their rank and fortunes. They erected on theCælian hill a magnificent palace, and as soon as it was finished, in­vited Aurelian to supper. On his entrance, he was agreeably sur­ prised with a picture which represented their singular history.They were delineated offering to the emperor a civic crown and thescepter of Gaul, and again receiving at bis hands the ornamentsof the senatorial dignity. The father was afterwards investedwith the government of Lucania 8}, and Aurelian, who soon admit­ted the abdicated monarch to his friendship and conversation, fami­liarly alked him, Whether it were not more desirable to administera province of Italy, than to reign beyond the Alps? The son long continued