OCR Output 502 OSTrA, OSTIA. port.mt was the trade or Ostla become, especially onaccount of the supplies of corn which it furnished tothe capital, that it was made the phut- of residence ofone of the four quaestors of Italy, and gave name toone of the '* provineiae quaestoriac" into wliieh thatcountry was divided. (Cie. pro Murvn. 8. pro S?st.17 ; Suet. CUtwL 24.) But the increasing com­merce of Ostia rendered its natural disadvantages:ts a (H>rt only the more sensible; and there can helit lie doubt that those disadvantages were them­selves continually increasing. It had been origin­ally founded, as we are expres>ly told, close to theniouth of the Tiber, frum which it is now distantabove three miles; and the process of alluvial <1c]h>-hition, which has wrought this change, Las beenundoubtedly going on throughout the interveningperh>d. Hence Nt,-abo describes in strong terms thedisadvantages of Ostia in his day, and calls it "acity without a port, on account of the alluvial depo­sits continually brought down by the Tiber, whichcompelled the larger class of vessels to ride atanchor in the open roadstead at great risk, whiletheir cargoes were unloaded into boats or barges, bywhich they were carried up the river to Home.Oilier vessels were themselves towed up the Tiber,after they had been lightened by discharging a partof their cargoes.'' (Strab. v. pp. 231, 'I'.S'l.) Diony-sius gives a more favourable view, but which doesnot substantially differ from the preceding account.(Oionys. iii. 44.) These evils had already attractedthe attention of the dictator Caesar, and among theprojects ascribed to him, was one for forming anartificial port or basin at Ostia (Pint. Cues, 58):but this was neglected by his successors, until the increasing difficulty of supplying Rome fill rflcompelled Claudius to undertake the work. That emperor, instead of attemptin; \n rfetaiand restore the original ]*irt of o>t.a at '■'< -of the Tiber, determined on the coostnwti* tf ■entirely new basin, which was eicaiat* I in! ttashore about two miles to the N. of < >sUa, ui I -was made to communicate with the r'.*rr i\ u Jflficial cut or canal. This port was p'trrtwi flenlarged by two moles projecting out into tbe m,as to enclose an extensive space, while in the rifflbctw.cn them a breakwater or irUDcia tlafldithrown tip, crowned by a lighthouse. (IVcCilx. 11; Suet. Claud. 20; Plin. ii. o, ivi. 40 :.'■ fuv. xii. 75—81 ) This great work was called II'ortus At'ousn, on which account i:.- umrtriaor at least commencement, is by wei* »n:mferred to ihe emj*ror Augustus ; but the e utliority for this; and Dion Ca^ius uistiixlij wthe commencement as well as cuinjleti'ja • IClaudius. Nero, however. appears to bare f*finishing hand to the work, and id rnwqistruck coins on which he claims i: fur hia i(Kckhel, vol. vi. p. 276.) After this il "«siderably augmented by Trajan, who »a'basin or dock, of a hexa^onul form, sumxaai-juays and extensive ranges of buildings ■zmes and storehouses. This port was cai-ei^TtHiTLs Tkajasi; and hence we attenwris ■inscriptions with the "I'ortus Aucusti et Tiqand sometimes " I'ortus utenjue"' in the(.Juv. /.<*., et Schol. ad loc.; Gruter./&*>t. »10, p. 440.3.) At the same time be euia^repaired the artificial channel of cummankaiw