OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 203 more steady than theirs. As soon therefore as thesebeheld the Roman standards, a murmur spread fromfront to rear of the Samnites, that, as they had feared,* the Romans were coming out to oppose their march ;that there was no road open through which they couldeven fly thence: in that spot they must fall, or elsecut down the enemy's ranks, and make their way overtheir bodies.' 36. They then threw the baggage in a heap in thecentre, and, with their arms prepared for battle,formed their line, each falling into his post. Therewas now but a small interval between the two armies,and both stood waiting until the shout and onsetshould be begun by their adversary. Neither partyhad any inclination to fight, and they would have sepa­rated and taken different roads without coming to ac­tion, but that each had a dread of being harassed, inretreat by the other. Notwithstanding this reluc­tance, an engagement unavoidably began, but withoutany vigor, and with a shout which discovered neitherresolution nor steadiness ; nor did any move a footfrom his post. The Roman consul, then, in order toipfuse life into the action, ordered a few troops ofcavalry to advance out of the line and charge : most ofwhom being thrown from their horses and the rest putin disorder, several parties ran forward, both from theSamnite line to cut off those who had fallen, and fromthe Roman to protect their friends: this roused somelittle spirit in the combatants; but the Samnites hadcome forward with more briskness and also in greatnumbers, and the disordered cavalry, with their af­frighted horses, trod down their own party who cameto their relief. These were, consequently, the firstwho fled ; and their example was followed by thewhole Roman line. And now the Samnites had noemployment for their arms but against the rear of aflying enemy, when the consul galloping on before hismen to the gate of the camp, posted there a body ofcavalry, with orders to treat as an enemy any personwho should make towards the rampart, whether Roman