OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. immediate representations of the Gods, and the holy instrumentsof their worship, the elegant forms and agreeable fictions con­secrated by the imagination of the Greeks, were introduced a»the richest ornaments of the houses, the dress, and the furniture*of the Pagans 4°. Even the arts of music and painting, of eloquenceand poetry, flowed from the fame impure origin. In the styleof the fathers, Apollo and the Muses were the organs of theinfernal spirit, Homer and Virgil were the most eminent of hisservants, and the beautiful mythology which pervades and animatesthe compositions of their genius, is destined to celebrate the gloryof the dæmons. Even the common language of Greece and Romeabounded with familiar but impious expressions, which the im­prudent Christian might too carelessly utter, or too patientlyhear 47. The dangerous temptations, which on every side lurked in Festival*,ambush to surprise the unguarded believer, assailed him with re­doubled violence on the days of solemn festivals. So artfullywere they framed and disposed throughout the year, that super­stition always wore the appearance of pleasure, and often of vir­tue *8. Some of the most sacred festivals in the Roman ritual weredestined to salute the new calends of January with vows of publicand private felicity, to indulge the pious remembrance of the deadand living, to ascertain the inviolable bounds of property, to hail*on the return of spring, the genial powers of fecundity, to per­petuate the two memorable aeras of Rome, the foundation of thecity, and that of the republic, and to restore, during the humanelicense of the Saturnalia, the primitive equality of mankind. Someidea may be conceived of the abhorrence of the Christians for suchimpious ceremonies, by the scrupulous delicacy which they dis­played on a much less alarming occasion. On days of generalfestivity, it was the custom of the ancients to adorn their doorswith lamps and with branches of laurel, and to crown their heads Vol. I. O o o with