OCR Output Chap. XXVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 335 like offences against him, which were heavier than death itself jand when nobody contradicted him, he moved them to pity hiscase, as though he had been condemned himself, now he hadgained a bitter victory against his sons. So he asked every one'ssentence, which sentence was first of all given by Saturninus,and was this, Tiiat he condemned the young men, but not todeath; for that it was not fit for him, who had three sons ofhis own now present, to give his vote for the destruction of theson of another. The two lieutenants also gave the like vote;some others there were also who followed their example; butVolumnius began to vote on the more melancholy side, and allthose that came after him condemned the young men to die,some out of flattery, and some out of hatred to Herod; but noneout of indignation at their crimes. And now all Syria and Ju-dea was in great expectation, and waited for the last act of thistragedy; yet did not nobody suppose that Herod would be sobarbarous as to murder his children; however, he carried themaway to Tyre, and thence sailed to Caesarea, and deliberatedwith himself what sort of death the young men should suffer. 4. Now there was a certain old soldier of the king's, whosename was Tcro, who had a son that was very familiar with, anda friend to Alexander, and who himself particularly loved theyoung men. This soldier was in a manner distracted out of theexcess of the indignation he had at what was doing; and at firsthe criedoutaloud, ashehe went about, " That justicewas tramp-" led under foot; that truth was perished, and nature confound-" ed; and that the life of man was full of iniquity," and everything else that passion could suggest to a man who spared nothis own life; and at last he ventured to go to the king, and said," Truly, I think, thou art a most miserable man, when thou" hearkenest to most wicked wretches, against those that ought" to be dearest to thee; since thou hast frequently resolved that" Pheroras and Salome sbould be put to death, and yet believest" them against thy sons; while these, by cutting off the sac-" cession of thine own sons, leave all wholly to Antipater, and" thereby choose to have thee sueh a king as may be thorough-" ly in their own power. However, consider whether this" death of Antipater's brethren will not make him hated by the" soldiers; for there is no body but commiserates the young" men, and of the captains a great many shew their indignation-" at it openly." Upon his saying this, he named those thathad such indignation; but the king ordered those men, withTero himself, and his son, to be seized upon immediately. 5. At which time there was a certain barber, whose name wa This man leaped out from among the people in a kind of