OCR Output OF THE "ROMAN EMPIRE. more art and solidity than the uncertain mythology of Greece andRome,S\ . From this impartial though imperfect survey of the progress of General pro- portion of Christianity, it may perhaps seem probable, that the number of its Christianiproselytes has been excessively magnified by fear on the one side, and Pagan!*and by devotion on the other. According to the irreproachabletestimony of Origen '8,} the proportion of the. faithful was very in足considerable when compared with the multitude of an unbelieving . ,world; but, as we are left without any distinct information, it is impos足sible to determine, and it is difficult even to conjecture, the real num足bers of the primitive Christians. The most favourable calculation,however, that can be deduced from the examples of Antioch and ofRome, will not permit us to imagine that more than a twentiethpart of the subjects of the empire had enlisted themselves underthe banner of the cross before the important conversion of Con-ftantine. But their habits of faith, of zeal, and of union, seemedto multiply their numbers; and the fame causes which contributedto their future increase, served to render their actual strengthmore apparent and more formidable. Such is the constitution of civil society, that whilst a few persons Whether the first Christians are distinguished by riches, by honours, and by knowledge, the were meanbody of the people is condemned to obscurity, ignorance, andpoverty. The Christian religion which addressed itself to the wholehuman race must consequently collect a far greater number of pro足selytes from the lower than from the superior ranks of life. Thisinnocent and natural circumstance has been improved into a veryodious imputation, which seems to be less strenuoufly denied by theapologists than it is urged by the adversaries of the faith; that Thenew sect of Christians was almost entirely composed of the dregs ofthe populace, of peasants and mechanics, of boys and women, ofbeggars and staves, the last of whom might sometimes introduce themissionaries into the rich and noble families to which they belonged.Vol. I. U u u These and ignorant.