OCR Output cvi A Survey of the History. at once without premeditation. The Lacedaemonians, amidstthe many applications made to them, are puzzled which ofthe revolving States they shall first countenance and assist.Alcibiades is busy at Sparta, advising proper measures, andguiding their counsels. Even the Persian monarch, by hislieutenants, enters into league against them; and some oftheir finest islands are immediately rent asunder from sub­jection to the Athenians. The various turns of war at Chios, and on the coast ofIonia, are distinctly but concisely related, until Alcibiadesappears in action, and exerts his busy and intriguing genius.Suspected at length and hated by the Lacedaemonians, hebecame again their enemy, and turned all his projects on ac­complishing his return to Athens, and saving his countryfrom impending ruin. His partizans, in the fleet and troopsof Athens now lying at Samos, cabal in his favour. A changeof government is judged a necessary measure to bring abouthis recalment. It is the scheme of Alcibiades himself;but it is opposed, and disconcerted by Phrynichus; byPhrynichus, who soon after turns out a violent enemy tothe democracy, whilst Alcibiades is active and zealous in itssupport. None but our author's pen could have so clearly unfoldedthat series of caballings, that fluctuation both in principle andconduct, and that horrid embroilment of the leading mem-t bers of the Athenian State amongst themselves, which broughton seditions amongst the troops abroad, and a revolution ofgovernment in the city of Athens. The democracy is atlength overturned : and an oligarchy, consisting of four hun­dred persons, erected in its stead. The Athenians atSamos,where the project was first laid, declare against the Atheni­ans at Athens. Alcibiades is grown again a hearty republi­can ; and Thrasybulus alone manifests throughout a sincerelove and regard for his country. Parties newly formed arebroke again into divisions ; and Athens was indebted to no­thing but the indolence of the Lacedaemonians, that she did