OCR Output 22 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. slain immediately, as a turbulent person in the most importantconcerns, and as one that had laid a plot not only against him­self, but against his sister also, and even corrupted Caesar's owndomestics. Salome also provoked him to it, beating her breast,and bidding him kill her, if he could produce any credible testi­mony that she had acted in that manner. Herod also sent forhis son, and asked him about this matter, and bid him contradictit if he could, and not suppress any thing he had to say for him­self ; and, when he had not one word to say, he asked him, sincehe was every way caught in his villainy, that he would makeno farther delay, but discover his associates in these his wickeddesigns. So he laid all upon Antiphilus; but discovered no­body else. Hereupon Herod was in such great grief, that he wasready to send his son to Rome to Caesar, there to give an ac­count of these his wicked contrivances. But he soon becameafraid, lest he might there, by the assistance of his friends, es­cape the danger he was in : so he kept him bound as before, andsent more ambassadors and letters [to Rome] to accuse his son,and an account of what assistance Acme had given him in hiswicked designs, with copies of the epistles before mentioned. CHAP. VL Concerning the disease that Herod fell into, and the sedition'which the Jews raised thereupon ; with the punishment of theseditious. § i. TVTOW Herod's ambassadors made haste to Rome ; but,* ' went as instructed beforehand what answers theywere to make to the questions put to them. They also carriedthe epistles with them. But Herod now fell into a distemper,and made his will, and bequeathed his kingdom to [Antipas] hisyoungest son ; and this out of that hatred to Archelaus and Phi­lip, which the calumnies of Antipater had raised against them.He also bequeathed a thousand talents to Caesar, and five hun­dred to Julia, Caesar's wife, to Caesar's children, and friends andfreed men. He also distributed among his sons and their sonshis money, his revenues, and his lands. He also made Salomehis sister very rich, because she had continued faithful to himin all his circumstances, and was never so rash as to do him anyharm : and as he despaired of recovering, for he was 'about theseventieth year of his age, he grew fierce, and indulged the bit­terest anger upon all occasions ; the cause whereof was this, thathe thought himself despised, and that the nation was pleased withhis misfortunes; besides which, he resented a sedition which some of