OCR Output 416 ... TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. enter upon office the first of October, previous to whickthey gave in their own resignation. CHAP. X. Exertions qf the Tribunes to prevent Levies and payment ofTares. JJlJRING the administration of L. Valerius Potitus, afourth, M. Furius Camillus, Manius jEmilius Mamercinus,a third, Carius Cornelius Cossus, a second time, CaesoFabius Ambustus, and L. Julius Julus, who were electedmilitary tribunes with consular power, at this time, therewas sufficient business both at home and abroad. Wanwere multiplied upon their hands, all at the same time,with the Vejentes, the Capenates, the'Falisci, and theVolsci, in order to recover Anxur. Moreover .at Rome,they had no small difficulty in making the levies and col足lecting the taxes. The co-optation of two tribunes, be足came another bone of contention, and the trial of the twomilitary tribunes, who had just divested themselves ofconsular power, raised no small contention. To raise the levies however, was the first business ofthe military tribunes. Nor were the young men onlyinrolled, but the old were also obliged to give in thennames, to serve as a city guard. The more numerousthe levies, the more money became necessary for theirpay, which, as it fell upon those who remained at home,it was paid with no good will, as they too did the duty ofsoldiers, and served the state, when they acted M qualityof city guards. These things sufficiently hard in themselves, weregreatly aggravated by the seditious harangues of the tri足bune? , who insisted, that pay .had been established forthe soldiers, with no other view, but to ruin one half ofthe citizens by the hardships of war, and the other, byimpositions they weie hot able to support, 'Why,' pur足sued they, ' one war has already been spun out to the * third year, and designedly mismanaged, to protract it'still longer. ,At one single levy, armies have been * raised for four separate wars, and both boys and old'men mustered to complete them. Now, they no Ion- * ger make any difference between winter and summer: