OCR Output 358 ROMAN EMPIRE. skill and perseverance of their general prevailed: theirdefeat was avenged by the slaughter of ten thousand in­fidels; and Moseilama himself was pierced by an /Ethi­opian slave with the same javelin which had mortallywounded the uncle of Mahomet. The various rebels ofArabia, without a chief or cause, were speedily sup­pressed by the power and discipline of the rising mo­narchy; and the whole nation again professed, and moresteadfastly held, the religion of the Koran. The ambitionof the caliphs provided an immediate exercise for therestless spirit of the Saracens; their valour was unitedin the prosecution of a holy war; and their enthusiasmwas equally confirmed by opposition and victory,character From the rapid conquests of the Saracens apresumption will naturally arise, that the firstcaliphs commanded in person the armies of thefaithful, and sought the crown of martyrdom in the fore­most ranks of the battle. The courage of Abubeker,'1Omar,e and Othman/ had indeed been tried in the per­secution and wars of the prophet; and the personal as­surance of paradise must have taught them to despisethe pleasures and dangers of the present world. Butthey ascended the throne in a venerable or mature age,and esteemed the domestic cares of religion and justicethe most important duties of a sovereign. Except thepresence of Omar at the siege of Jerusalem, the longestexpeditions were the frequent pilgrimage from Medinato Mecca; and they calmly received the tidings of victoryas they prayed or preached before the sepulchre of theprophet. The austere and frugal measure of their liveswas the effect of virtue or habit, and the pride of theirsimplicity insulted the vain magnificence of the king* d His reign in Eutychius, torn. 2. p. 251. Elmacin, p. 18. Abulpharagiiu, p-108. Abulfeda, p. 60. D'Herbelot, p. 58. - His reign in Eutychius, p. 264. Elmacin, p. 24. Abulpharagius, p. 110. Abal-feda, p. 66. D'Herbelot, p. 686. < His reign in Eutychius, p. 323. Elmacin, p. 36. Abolpharagins, p. 115. Abul­feda, p. 75. D'Herbelot, p. 695.