OCR Output 52 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.V, the Argives were now the chief managers of the tem­ple. But, this pretended grievance let apart, it hadbeen judged expedient, by Alcibiades and the Argives,to get possession, if possible, of Epidaurus, in order toprevent molestation on the side of Corinth, and to ren­der the passage of Athenian succours more expeditiousfrom Ægina than by setching a compass about Scyllæ-um. The Argives, therefore, were intent on their pre­parations, as resolved to take the field and act againstEpidaurus, in order to exact the victim by forceof arms. Bur, about the fame time, the Lacedæmonians alsomarched out, with their whole force, as sar as to Leuc-tra, upon their own frontier, towards Lyceum, underthe command of Agis, the son of Archidamus, theirking. Not a man was privy to the design of their thustaking the field, not even the States from which thequotas were furnished out. But, when the victimsthey sacrificed for a successful campaign proved inauspi­cious, they again marched home, and circulated freshorders to their consederates to be ready to take the fieldagain after the next month, which was the month Car-ndus,-f- the grand festival of the Dorians. But, whenthey were thus withdrawn, the Argives, taking thefield on the twenty-seventh day of the month precedingCarneius, and though celebrating their own festival thacvery day, continued all this intermediate time to makeincursions and ravages upon Epidauria. The Epidau-rians sent about to solicit the succours of their allies jfome of whom excused themselves as bound to observethe approaching sestivals, though others advanced as •f This festival was observed by most cities in Greece; but with the greatestpomp and solemnity at Sparta, where it began the thirteenth of the month Carneius-,according to the Lacedæmonian stile, and lasted nine days. A camp was formed forits celebration, in wlich they continued during the whole solemnity, and observedfliict military discipline. By these means, as we find a little lower, the Argives,i n this instance no slaves to superstition, attended to the festival and warfare at the sametime, and anrojcd the Epidaurians, whilst religions awe restrained the friends of th*latter siotii acting in their deser.ee. See PnV.tr 's ArtbanUgia, vol, i, p. 408.