OCR Output 276 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. dangerous, no doubt, in such sport to carry off victory fromthe king. In hunting on horseback, he hit the game at fullgallop and never missed his aim. He challenged competitionat table also—-he arranged banqueting matches and carriedoff in person the prizes proposed lor the most substantial eaterand the hardest drinker—and not less so in the pleasures ofthe harem, as was shown among other things by the licentiousletters of his Greek mistresses, which were found among hispapers. His intellectual wants he satisfied by the wildestsuperstition—the interpretation of dreams and the Greekmysteries occupied not a few of the king's hours—and by arude adoption of Hellenic civilization. He was fond ofGreek art and music; that is to say, he collected preciousarticles, rich furniture, old Persian and Greek objects ofluxury—his cabinet of rings was famous—he had constantlyGreek historians, philosophers, and poets in his train, and pro­posed prizes at his court-festivals not only for the greatesteaters and drinkers, but also for the merriest jester and thebest singer. Such was the man; the sultan corresponded.In the East, where the relation between the ruler and theruled bears the character of natural rather than of morallaw, the subject resembles the dog alike in fidelity and infalsehood, the ruler is cruel and distrustful. In both re­spects Mithradates has hardly been surpassed. By his ordersthere died or pined in perpetual captivity for real or allegedtreason his mother, his brother, his sister espoused to him,three of his sons and as many of his daughters. Still morerevolting perhaps is the fact, that among his secret paperswere found sentences of death, drawn up beforehand, againstseveral of his most confidential servants. In like manner itwas a genuine trait of the sultan, that he afterwards, for themere purpose of depriving his enemies of trophies of victory,caused his whole harem to be killed and distinguishedhis favourite concubine, a beautiful Ephesian, by allowingher to choose the mode of death. He prosecuted the experi­mental study of poisons and antidotes as an importantbranch of the business of government, and tried to inurehis body to particular poisons. He had early learned tolook for treason and assassination at the hands of everybodyand especially of his nearest relatives, and he had earlylearned to practise them against everybody and most of allagainst those nearest to him; of which the necessary conse­quence—attested by all his history—was, that all his under­