OCR Output B. IV. 339 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. furnished with all the expedients of war, nay, might act of­fensively from thence, might terribly annoy Lesbos whichlies near it, and reduce the iEolian fortresses along the coast.This was the plan which now they were intent to put inexecution. The same summer the Athenians, with a fleet of sixtyships, and taking with them two thousand heavy-armed, afew horsemen, the Milesians, and others of their confede­rates, made an expedition against Cythera. The commandwas lodged with Nicias son of Niceratus, Nicostratus son ofDiotrephes, and Autocles son of Tolmaeus. Cythera isan island: it lies upon the coast of Laconia over-againstMalea. The inhabitants are Lacedaemonians, resorting thi­ther from the neighbouring coast. A magistrate was sentover yearly from Sparta by the stile of Judge of Cythera .the garrison of heavy-armed established there was regularlyrelieved ; and no care omitted in the good government andmanagement of the place. It was the port which their trad­ing ships first entered, in their return from Egypt and Libya.It was the chief security of Laconia against those piraticalparties which might infest it from the sea, from whencealone they are capable of doing them any mischief: for byits situation it hath intirely the command of the seas ofSicily and Crete. The Athenian armament therefore arriv­ing here, with a detachment of ten ships and two thousandheavy-armed, surprise a maritime town which is called Scan-dea. With the rest of their force they made a descent onthat part of the island which is opposite to Malea, and ad­vanced toward the city of Cythera situated also on the sea,and they found immediately that all the inhabitants weredrawn out into the field in readiness to receive them. Anengagement ensued, wherein the Cythereans maintainedtheir ground for a small space of time, but then turningabout, fled amain into their citadel. They soon afterwardscapitulated with Nicias and his colleagues, submitting to theAthenians at discretion, barring only the penalty of death.