OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 385 ethics, and jurisprudence. Whenever their judgmentsagree, they corroborate each other; but as often as theydiffer, a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt and pu­nishment according to the measure of social injury. Onthis principle, the most daring attack on the life and pro­perty of a private citizen, is judged less atrocious thanthe crime of treason or rebellion, which invades the ma­jesty of the republic: the obsequious civilians unani­mously pronounced, that the republic is contained in theperson of its chief: and the edge of the Julian law wassharpened by the incessant diligence of the emperors.The licentious commerce of the sexes may be toleratedas an impulse of nature, or forbidden as a source of dis­order and corruption: but the fame, the fortunes, thefamily of the husband, are seriously injured by the adul­tery of the wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curb­ing the freedom of revenge, applied to this domestic of­fence the animadversion of the laws: and the guilty par­ties, after the payment of heavy forfeitures and fines,were condemned to long or perpetual exile in two sepa­rate islands.' Religion pronounces an equal censureagainst the infidelity of the husband: but as it is not ac­companied by the same civil effects, the wife was neverpermitted to vindicate her wrongs;' and the distinctionof simple or double adultery, so familiar and so importantin the canon law, is unknown to the jurisprudence of thecode and pandects. I touch with reluctance, and dispatch unnaturalwith impatience, a more odious vice, of which modestyrejects the name, and nature abominates the idea. Theprimitive Romans were infected by the example of the offence was most frequent, condemns the criminals, ad gladium, lndi damnationem.(Ulpian de Oliicio Prouonsulis, lib. 8. in Collatione Legum Mosaic, et Rom. tit. 11.p. 235.) * Till the publication of the Julias Paulus of Soholting, (lib. 2. tit. 26. p. 317—323.) it was affirmed and believed, that the Julian laws punished adulter; withdeath ; and the mistake arose from the fraud or error of Tribonian. Yet Lipsius hadsuspected the truth from the narrative of Tacitus, (Annal. 2. 50, 3. 24. 4. 42.) andeven from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished the treasonable frailties of hisfemale kindred. 'In cases of adultery, Several confined to the husband the righlof public accusa­tion. (Cod. Justinian, lib. 9. til. 9. leg. 1.) Nor is this privilege unjust—so differentare the effects of male or female infidelity.