OCR Output 20 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V, cannot be exactly known in what determinate part, whe­ther in the beginning or middle, or any other portion,of a magistracy, any important event occurred. But, ifthe computation proceed by summers and winters, whichmethod I have observed, such an inquirer will find,that these two halves being equivalent to a whole year,ten complete summers, and the same number of winters,elapsed in the course of this first part of the war. The Lacedæmonians, for to them it fell by lot tomake the first restitutions, released immediately whatprisoners they had in their hands; and, having dispatch­ed Ischagoras, and Menas, and Philocharidas, in thequality of their embassadors to the cities of Thrace, or­dered Clearidas to deliver up Amphipolis to the Athe­nians, and all the consederates there to submit to theterms of the treaty, according to the stipulation givenfor them. But this they positively refused, as theyjudged the treaty prejudicial. Clearidas also, to ingra­tiate himself with the Chalcideans, would not deliver upAmphipolis, alledging, that, without their concurrence,he could not possibly do ir. He himself returned inperson soon after with the embassadors, in order to makehis defence at Lacedæmon, mould Ischagoras accusehim there of disobeying orders. His view was, farther,to try if the accommodation could by any means be eva­ded. But, when he found it fast confirmed, he postedback with all speed to his government, having expresiorders from the Lacedæmonians to deliver up Amphi­polis; or, if that was beyond his power, to cause all thePeloponnesians within that garrison instantly to evacuatethe place. The confederates happened, at this juncture, to beat Lacedæmon, where such of them, as had hithertorefused to accept the treaty, were ordered by the Lace­dæmonians to accede to it. But this they positively re­fused, alledging the same reason as before; and plainlyaffirming, that " they would not come in, till better"terms than the present were obtained for them." Their