OCR Output SCYTHIA. SCYTHINL 945 .Inn, the Alani the Huns. [Hukmi; Avarks].!m migrations that make the latter, at least, re­sit occupant! being entirely hypothetical. The"■Jrnre of the Hans being in the same category ast'f Avars, and the Avars being Turk, is conclusive.The same applies to the Alani — a population whichflr.pi ui to the period of the later classics. The conditions of a population which should,! Me and the same time, front Persia and send an3»t round the Caspian into Southern Russia, &c,n br§t satisfied by the present exclusively Turkrva of Independent Tartary. ['losing from tire presumptuous to the special»\tm, we find that the few facta of which we are f»»»e»ion ail point in the same direction. Piysical Appearance.— This is that of ther.-yie and Uzbeks exactly, thongh not that of the n ans of ftumelia, who are of mixed Wood. Al-»ttg iigr the change effected by Mahomet, theEM remark applies to their Maaxen, which arc those of the Kirghiz andtrr&inanj. l<mjmagc.—The Scythian glosses have not beenij'irtorily explained, i. e. Temerinda, Arimaspi,d Kiampaeus bare yet to receive a derivationit any one but the inventor of it will admit.j ni,r-, however, in Oior patu is exactly the er,r. •• mm, &c, a term found through all thei'l dialect*. It should be added, however, that» Latin and Keltic as well (nr. fear, gwr).51 it ia Turk, and that unequivocally.Tb» evidence, then, of the Scythae being Turkaits in a series of small particulars agreeingt the a pritrri probabilities rather than in anyb.t* point of evidence. Add to this the fact; rj» lAber class gives us the same result withi-!ially small amount of hypothesis in the wayi tgration and change. This will be seen in aof the opposite doctrines, all of which implynecesisary amount of unprnven changes.rV M<mgoi Hypothesis.—This is Niebuhr's, de--^nj in his Researches into the History of the Sey­ms, 4c.; awl also Neumann's, in his Hellenen im»«W(. It accounts for the manners and phy-• «ny, as well as the present doctrine; but not forttung else. It violates the rule against the unnc-multiplication of causes, by bringing from a■at are*, like Mongolia, what lies nearer, i. e. intarr. With Niebuhr the doctrine of fresh migra-f to accoant for the Turks of the Byzantine pciiod,is" the extirpation of the older Scythians, takesluiani development, the least allowance being• fat charters of name. "This" (the time ofr_jfau»)"i»the last mention of the Scythian na-ai tba> rvgioci of the later; and, at this time, therei ioIt be a remnant of it in Budzack " (p. 63).I* fmm Hypothesis. —This is got at by making.v^thians what the Huns were, and the Huns: rrvt Magyars were—the Magyars being Finn,out of a wrong notion of the name, Hun-mi fa4la to account for the difference betweeniThtara and the nations to their north,i- ''infusion Hypothesis.—This assumes an ex-of the more limited area of the northern;«nLa of Caucasus in the direction of Russia andftey. Sadi *n extension is, in itself, probable.. jt. however, to explain any one fact in the>'iun» of Scythia, though valid for some of the;k potations. r 1ndo-Eanropean Hypothesis.—This doctrineniasy forma, and rata on many bases. The •u n. -get- in words like Massa-jet-ae, &c, is supposed to= Goth - German. Then there are certain nameswhich are Scythian and Persian, the Persian beingIndo-European. In the extreme form of this hy­pothesis the Sacae - Saxons, and the 1'ucAe of theChinese authors = Goths. If the Scythians were intruders from Inde­pendent Tartary, whom did they displace? Not theSarmatians, who wire themselves intruders. Theearlier occupants were in part congeners of theNorthern Caucasians. They were chiefly, however,Ugrians or Finns; congeners of the Monlvins,Tsheremess, and Tshuwashes of Penza, Saratov,Kazan, tec: Dacia, Thrace, and Sarmatia being theoriginal occupancies of the Sarmatae. If so, the ethnographical history of the Herodo-tcan Scythia runs thus :— there was an originaloccupancy of Ugrians; there was an intrusion fromthe NE. by the Scythians of Independent Tartary,and there was intrusion from the SW. by the Sar­matians of Dacia. The duration of the Scythian orTurk occupancy was from the times anterior toHerodotus to the rxtinction of the Cumanians in the14th century. Of internal changes there was plenty;but of any second migration from Asia (with theexception of that of the Avars) there is no evidence. Such is the history of the Scythae. The Sacae were, perhaps, less exclusively Turk,though Turk in the main. Some of them were,probably, Mongols. The Sacae Amyrgii may havebeen Ugrians; the researches of Norris upon thesecond of the arrow-headed alphabets having ledhim to the opinion that there was at least one in­vasion of Persia analogous to the Magyar invasionof Hungary, i. e. effected by members of the Ugrianstock, probably from Orenburg or Kazan. Withthem the root m~rd = man. History gives us notime when the Turks of the Persian frontier, theSacae, were not pressing southwards. Sacastene(= Segcttun) was one of their occupancies ; Car-mania probably another. The Parthians were of theScyth an stock ; and it is difficult to believe that,word for word, Persia is not the same as Partliia.The history, however, of the Turk stock is one thing;the history of the Scythian name another. It iasubmitted, however, that the two should be connected.This being done, the doctrine of the recent diffusionof the Turks is a doctrine that applies to the nameonly. There were Turk invasions of Hungary,Turk invasions of Persia, Turk invasions of China,Assyria, Asia Minor, and even north-eastern Africa,from the earliest period of history. Arid there wereSarmatian invasions in the opposite direction, in­vasions which have ended in making Scythia Slavonic,and which (in the mind of the present writer) beganby making parts of Asia Median. Lest this bo takenfor an exaggeration of the Turk influence in theworld's history, let it be remembered that it is onlya question of date, and that the present view onlyclaims for the Turk conquests the place in the ante-historical that they are Anoirn to have had in thehistorical period. With the exception of the Mongolinvasions of the 13th century and the Magyar occu­pancy of Hungary, every conqniat in Southern Asiaand Europe, from the North, has been effected bymembers of the stock under notice. [See Sakmatia;Vemki>i ; Fknni ; Sitonks : Turcak.] [It. G. L.] SCYTUl'NI (2«u0i?o;, Xen. Anab. iv. 7. § IS;Smiitfinu, Diod. xiv. 29 ; Jicuflni'oi, Steph. B. $. v.),an Asiatic people dwelling on the borders of Ar­menia, between the rivers Harpasus on the E. and 3 r