OCR Output 266 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. demonstrated, not only that the political struggles had reachedthe point at which nothing save open and direct force provesdecisive, but also that the power of the bludgeon was of noavail against the power of the sword. It was the conserva­tive party which first drew the sword, and which accord­ingly in due time experienced the truth of the ominoussaying of the Gospel as to those who first have recourse to it.For the present they triumphed completely and might put thevictory into formal shape at their own pleasure. As a matterof course, the Sulpician laws were characterized as legallynull. Their author and his most notable adherents hadfled; they were, twelve in number, proscribed by the senateto be arrested and executed as enemies of their country.Death of Publius Sulpicius was accordingly seized at Laurentum andSulpicius. pUt to death ; and the head of the tribune, sent to Sulla, wasby his orders exposed in the Forum at the very rostra wherehe himself had stood but a few days before in the full vigourof youth and eloquence. The rest of the proscribed were pur­sued; the assassins were on the track of even the old GaiusFlight of Marius. Although the general might have clouded thememory of his glorious days by a succession of pitiful pro­ceedings, now that the deliverer of his country was runningfor his life, he was once more the victor of Vercellae, and withbreathless suspense all Italy listened to the incidents of hismarvellous flight. At Ostia he had gone on board a trans­port with the view of sailing for Africa; but adverse windsand want of provisions compelled him to land at the Circeianpromontory and to wander at random. With few attendantsand without trusting himself to a roof, the grey-haired con­sular, often suffering from hunger, found his way on foot tothe neighbourhood of the Roman colony of Hinturnae at themouth of the Garigliano. There the pursuing cavalry wereseen in the distance; with great difficulty he reached thecoast and a trading-vessel lying there withdrew him fromhis pursuers; but the timid mariners soon put him ashoreagain and made off, while Marius stole along the beach.His pursuers found him in the salt-marsh of Minturuaesunk to the girdle in the mud and with his head concealedamidst a quantity of reeds, and delivered him to the civicauthorities of Minturnae. He was placed in prison, and thetown-executioner, a Cimbrian slave, was sent to put him todeath; but the German trembled before the flashing eves othis old conqueror and the axe fell from his hands, when the Marius.