OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN■ EMPIRE. tinople, during three or four months, was visited by thepestilence ; and Procopius, who observed its progress andsymptoms with the eyes of a physician," has emulatedthe skill and diligence of Thucydides in the descriptionof the plague of Athens/ The infection was sometimesannounced by the visions of a distempered fancy, and thevictim despaired as soon as he had heard the menace andfelt the stroke of an invisible spectre. But the greaternumber, in their beds, in the streets, in their usual occu­pation, were surprised by a slight fever ; so slight, indeed,that neither the pulse nor the colour of the patient gaveany signs of the approaching danger. The same, thenext, or the succeeding day, it was declared by the swell­ing of the glands, particularly those of the groin, of thearm-pits, and under the ear; and when these buboes ortumours were opened, they were found to contain a coal,or black substance, of the size of a lentil. If they cameto-a just swelling and suppuration, the patient wassaved by this kind and natural discharge of the morbidhumour. But if they continued hard and dry, a morti­fication quickly ensued, and the fifth day was commonlythe term of his life. The fever was often accompaniedwith lethargy or delirium; the bodies of the sick werecovered with black pustules or carbuncles, fhe symptomsof immediate death; and in the constitutions too feebleto produce an eruption, the vomiting of blood was fol­lowed by a mortification of the bowels. To pregnant1women the plague was generally mortal: yet one infantwas drawn alive from his dead mother, and three mo­thers survived the loss of their infected foetus. Youthwas the. most perilous season; and the female ser was « nr. Friend (Hist. Medioiu. in Opp. p. 416—420. Lond. 1733.) is satisfied thatProcopius must have studied pbysic, from his knowledge and use of the technicalwords. Yet many words that are now scientific, were common and popular in theGreek idiom. 1 See Thucydides, lib. 2. c. 47—54. p. 127—133. edit. Duker, and the poeticaldescription of the same plague by Lucretius, (lib. 6.1136—1284.) I was indebtedto Dr. Hunter for an elaborate commentary on this part of Thuoydides, a quarto ofsic hundred pages, (Vehet. 1603, apud Juntas,) which was pronounced in St. Mark'slibrary, by Fahius Paulliuus Utinensis, a pbysician and phih/sophey.