OCR Output CHAP. L. 353 rious rites in that magnificent temple: at Oxford orGeneva, they would experience less surprise; but itmight still be incumbent on them to peruse the cate­chism of the church, and to study the orthodox com­mentators on their own writings, and the words of theirmaster. But the Turkish dome of St. Sophia, with anincrease of splendour and size, represents the humbletabernacle erected at Medina by the hands of MahometThe Mahometans have uniformly withstood the tempta­tion of reducing the object of their faith and devotionto a level with the senses and imaginations of man. Ibelieve in one God, and Mahomet the apostle of God,is the simple and invariable profession of Islam. Theintellectual image of the Deity has never been degradedby any visible idol: the honours of the prophet havenever transgressed the measure of human virtue; andhis living precepts have restrained the gratitude of hisdisciples within the bounds of reason and religion. Thevotaries of Ali have indeed consecrated the memory oftheir hero, his wife, and his children, and some of thePersian doctors pretend that the divine essence was in­carnate in the person of the Imams; but their super­stition is universally condemned by the Sonnites; andtheir impiety has afforded a seasonable warning againstthe worship of saints and martyrs. The metaphysicalquestions on the attributes of God, and the liberty ofman, have been agitated in the schools of the Mahome­tans, as well as m those of the Christians; but amongthe former they have never engaged the passions of thepeople, or disturbed the tranquillity of the state. Thecause of this important difference may be found in theseparation or union of the regal and sacerdotal charac­ters. It was the interest of the caliphs, the successorsof the prophet and commanders of the faithful, to repressand discourage all religious innovations: the order, thediscipline, the temporal and spiritual ambition, of theclergy, are unknown to the Moslems: and the sages ofVOL. vi. 2 A