OCR Output 9i THE PELOPONNESiAN WAR. however, that he had the true sense of the oracle, he put hisenterprize in execution. The Athenians, taking the alarm,ran out of the country in one general confluence to put astop to these attempts, and investing the citadel quite block­ed them up. But in process of time, being wearied out withthe tediousness of the blockade, many of them departed,leaving the care of it to the nine Archons, with a full powerof " acting in whatever manner they should judge most ex­pedient :" For at that time most parts of the public adminis­tration were in the management of the Archons. The partywith Cylon, thus closely invested, were reduced very lowthrough scarcity of bread and water. Cylon therefore andhis brother privately escape. But the rest, reduced to extre­mities, and some of them had already perished by famine, setthemselves down as suppliants by the altar in the citadel.The Athenian guard, having ordered them to arise as theysaw them just ready to expire in the temple, to avoid theguilt of profanation, led them out and slew them. But someof the number, who had seated themselves at the venerablegoddesses, at the very altars, they murdered in the act of re­moval*. And for this action not only the persons concernedin it but their descendants also were called the sacrilegiousand accursed of the Goddess. The Athenians indeed banishedthose sacrilegious persons out of the city: Cleomenes the La­cedaemonian drove them out again, when he was at Athens,on account of a sedition; nay, on this occasion they notonly drove away the living, but even dug up the bones of thedead, and cast them out; Yet, in process of time^ they re­turned again, and some of their posterity are still in Athens. • When these suppliants were ordered to come out, they tied a stringround the altar in the citadel, and keeping hold of it were come as far asthe altars of the venerable goddesses. Just there the string happened tobreak, upon which the Archons rushed in to seize them, as if Minerva hadthrown them out of her protection. Some of the number sat instantlydown for fresh protection at the altars of the venerable goddesses: It was anunavailing resource, and they were immediately slain upon the spot. iVu-Tkrch in .Wen.