OCR Output a5 f HE HISTORY * O O.K eftablifhihg the feat of empire at Rome. By tillsacceffion the number of citizens was doubled; and^as fomfc compliment to the Sabines/ the united peo­ple were called Quirites, from the town of Cures;To perpetuate the remembrance of that battle, theplace where his horfe, emerging from die deep of thelake, firft brought Curtius to a fhallow, was called,the Curtian lake *. This happy re-eftablifhment ofpeace, after a war fo diftreffing, rendered the Sabinewomen ftill dearer both to their hufbands and pa­rents, and above all to Romulus himfelf, fo that*when he divided the people into thirty Curias f, he"gave thefe the names of the women. But as thenumber" of the women was undoubtedly greaterthan this, whether thofe who were to give theirnames to the Curias were felected on account oftheir age, or their own dignity, or that of their huf­bands, or by lot, we are not informed. At thefame time alfo, three centuries of knights were en-dolled; .the Ramnenfes, fo called from Romulus;the Tiuenfes, frpm [Titus Tatius; and the Luceres^the reafon of whofe name and origin is unknown.Thenceforward the two. kings reigned together, notonly with equal power, but with concord. XIV. SEVERAL years after, fome relations ofking Tatius offered violence to the ambaffadors ofthe Laurentians; for which violation of the law ofnations, the latter demanded fatisfaclion: but Tatius • This name it retained long after it was filled up, and became apart of th' Forum. f He divided the city into three tribes: the Rarantnfej, fo calledfrom Romulus, l,eing his original followers; the Titienfts, fromTiiinTatius, compoled of the Sabines 5 and the Luceres, of thofc who had"afiembled in the Lucus, or fanctuary, or afterwards joined the Ro­mans. Each trilie lie divided into ten curias, or wards. Each cuiiahad its own prieft, called curio, and its own place of worlhip, where,on certain ftated days, lacrifices were offered to particular deities ; andthe people of the curia feaftfd together. The centuries of knightswere named alter the tribes out of which they were taken. paid