OCR Output 104 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVL "mean, when thou really hatest both him and his brother, to"pretend kindness to them, only in order to raise a reproach"against me, and talk of such things as no one but such an im-"pious wretch as thou art could either devise in their mind, or"declare in their words. Begone, thou that art such a plague"to thy benefactor, and thy brother, and may that evil con-"science of thine go along with thee; while I still overcome my"relations by kindness, and am so far from avenging myself of"them, as they deserve, that I bestow greater benefits upon"them than they are worthy of." 5. Thus did the king speak. Whereupon Pheroras, who wascaught in the very act of his villany, said, That " it was Salome"who was the framer of this plot, and that the words came"from her." But as soon as she heard that, for she was at hand,she cried out, like one that would be believed, that no such thingever came out of her mouth ; that they all earnestly endeavouredto make the king hate her, and to make her away, because ofthe good-will she bore to Herod, and because she was always fore­seeing the dangers that were coming upon him, and that at pre­sent there were more plots against him than usual; for whileshe was the only person who persuaded her brother to put awaythe wife he now had, and to take the king's daughter, it wasno wonder if she were hated by him. As she said this, and of­ten tore her hair, and often heather breast, her countenance madeher denial to be believed; but the perverseness of her manners de­clared at the same time her dissimulation in these proceedings: butPheroras was caught between them, and had nothing plausible tooffer in his own defence, while he confessed that he had said whatwas charged upon him, but was not believed when he said he hadheard it from Salome: so the confusion among them was increas­ed, and their quarrelsome words one to another. At last theking, out of his hatred to his brother and sister, sent them bothaway; and when he had commended the moderation of his son,and that he had himself told him of the report, he went in theevening to refresh himself. After such a contest as this hadfallen out among them, Salome's reputation suffered greatly,since she was supposed to have first raised the calumny ; and theking's wives were grieved at her, as knowing she was a very illnatured woman, and would sometimes be a friend, and sometimesan enemy at different seasons: so they perpetually said onething or another against her, and somewhat that now fell outmade them the bolder in speaking against her. 6. There was one Obodas, king of Arabia, an inactive andslothful man in his nature; but Sylleus managed most of his af­fairs to him. He was a shrewd man, although he was butyoung, and was handsome withal. This Sylleus, upon some