OCR Output THE LIFE Of FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 227 <fatne to Taricheae, and found the multitude ready assembled inProseucha ; but on what account they were gotten together,those that were assembled did not know. But, when Jonathanand his colleagues saw them there unexpectedly, they were in dis­order ; after which they raised a report of their own contrivance',that' Roman horsemen were seen at a place called Union, in theborders of Galilee, thirty furlongs distant from the city. Uponwhich report, Jonathan and his colleagues cunningly exhortedme not to neglect this matter, nor to suffer the land to be spoiledby the enemy. And this they said with a design to remove meout of the city, under the pretence of the want of extraordinaryassistance, while they might dispose the city to my enemy, 55. As for myself, although I knew of their design, yet did Icomply with what they proposed, lest the people of Tiberiasshould have occasion to suppose, that I was not careful of their-Security. I therefore went out; but, when I was at the place, Ifound not the least footsteps of any enemy, so I returned as fastas ever I'could, and found the whole council assembled, and thebody of the people gotten together, and Jonathan and his col­leagues bringing vehement accusations against me, as one that hadno concern to ease them of the burdens of war, and as one thatlived luxuriously. And as they were discoursing thus, they produ­ced four letters as written to them, from some people that livedat the borders of Galilee, imploring that they would come totheir assistance, for that there was an army of Romans, bothfrorse'men and footmen, who would come and lay waste the coun­try on the third day ; they desired them also to make haste, and,not to overlook them. When the people of Tiberias heard this,they thought they spake truth, and made a clamour against me,and said, 1 ought not to sit still, but to go away to the assistanceof their countrymen. ' Hereupon I said, (for I understood themeaning of Jonathan and his colleagues), that I was ready to com­ply with what they proposed, and without delay to march to thewar which they spake of, yet did I advise them, at the same time,that since these letters declared that the Romans would maketheir assault in' four several places, they should part their forcesinto five bodies, and make Jonathan and his colleagues generalsof each body of them, because it was fit for brave men, not onlyto give counsel, but to take the place of leaders, and assist theircountrymen when such a necessity pressed them ; for, said I, it isnot possible for me to lead more' than one party. This advice ofmine greatly pleased the multitude ; so they compelled them togo forth to war. But their designs were put into very muchdisorder, beca-ase they IICK! not done what they designed to do, F f 2 " on