OCR Output 304 [book VIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the garments belonging to a private person,and to go to Ahijah the prophet; for that heWas a wonderful man in foretelling futureevents; it having been he who told him, thathe should be king. He also enjoined her,when she came to him, to inquire concerningthe child, as if she were a stranger, whetherhe should escape this distemper. So she didas her husband bade her; and changed herhabit, and came to the city Shiloh; for theredid Ahijah live. But as she was going intohis house, his eyes being then dim with age,God appeared to him, and informed himthat the wife of Jeroboam was come to him;and what answer he should make to herinquiry. Accordingly as the woman wascoming into the house, like a private person,and a stranger, he cried out, "Come in, Othou wife of Jeroboam. Why concealestthou thyself? Thou art not concealed fromGod; who hath appeared to me, and in­formed me that thou wast coming, and hathgiven me in command what I shall say tothee." So he said, that she should go awayto her husband and speak to him thus:"Since I made thee a great man, when thouwast little, or rather nothing, and rent thekingdom from the house of David, and gaveit to thee; and thou hast been unmindful ofthese benefits, hast left off my worship, hastmade thee molten gods and honoured them:I will in like manner cast thee down again,and will destroy all thy house, and makethem food for the dogs, and the fowls. Fora certain king is rising up, by my appoint­ment, over all this people, who shall leavenone of the family of Jeroboam remaining.The multitude also shall themselves partakeof the same punishment; and shall be castout of this good land, and shall be scatteredinto the places beyond Euphrates; becausethey have followed the wicked practices oftheir king, and have worshipped the godsthat he made, and forsaken my sacrifices.Do thou, O woman! make haste back to thyhusband, and tell him this message. Butthou shalt then find thy son dead; for asthou enterest the city he shall depart thislife. Yet shall he be buried with the lamen- tations of all the multitude, and be honouredwith a general mourning: he is the only inno­cent person of Jeroboam's family."* When the prophet had foretold theseevents, the woman went hastily away with adisordered mind, and greatly grieved at thedeath of the child. So she was in lamenta­tion as she went along the road, and mournedfor the death of her son, that was just at handShe was indeed in a miserable condition atthe unavoidable approach of death, and wentapace; but in circumstances very unfortunatebecause of her son: for the greater haste shemade, she would the sooner see her son dead.Yet was she forced to make such haste onaccount of her husband. Accordingly whenshe was come back, she found that the childhad given up the ghost, as the prophet hadsaid, and she related all the circumstancesto the king. Jeroboam, however, did not lay any ofthese things to heart; but he brought togethera very numerous army, and made a warlikeexpedition against Abijah, the son of Reho-boam, who had succeeded his father in thekingdom of the two tribes. For he despisedhim, because of his age. But when he heardof the expedition of Jeroboam, he was notaffrighted at it; but proved of a courageoustemper of mind, superior both to his youth,and to the hopes of his enemy. So he chosean army out of the two tribes, and met Je­roboam at a place called mount Zemaraim,and pitched his camp near the others, andprepared every thing necessary for the fight.His army consisted of four hundred thousand:but the army of Jeroboam was double thatnumber. Now as the armies stood in arrayready for action, and were just going tofight, Abijah stood upon an elevated place,and beckoning with his hand, he desired themultitude, and Jeroboam himself, to hearfirst what he had to say. And when silencewas made, he began to speak to this effect:"God consented that David and his posterityshould be your rulers for all time to come;and this you yourselves are not unacquaintedwith. But I cannot but wonder how youshould forsake my father, and join yourselves he would either tell her nothing, or make things muchworse than they were. The only way, therefore, to comeat the truth, was, (as he thought,) to do what he did: butherein appears his infatuation, that he should not think the person, whom he held capable of resolving him in thefate of his son, able to see through this guile and disguise.Calmefs Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.* 1 Kings xiv. 13.