OCR Output PACTYICE. PADUS. 509 (Mm. 74; Xtpos, Ale. 7 ; cf. Pirn, iv. 18;StTi&Ji) Prrhips St. Gtorge. [T. H. D.] PACTTICE (noaruiirf)), a district of North-V>-m bdia, which, there is every reason to sup-;». mat tan been nearly the same as the modern! uW, but probably extended westward across thelata. It is mentioned by Herodotus with that amount«t lacfrtiinrr which attaches to almost all that hertfca if tit far East Thus in the catalogue of thepw» of the different satrapies of the Persian em-pn, Paetyke is reckoned after Bactriana, and is con--*»! »Hh the Armenians, which gives it an extentS» Iv U) to* W. (iii. 93). Again, in his account of.»tTj of Xerxes, llerodotus mentions the Pac-x connexion with the Sagartii, and places themj..f lot ccanmand of a Persian (vii. 67). And inUr t'jWqoent description of the fonner people, heorn Ihit their dress is the same as that of thefcrtrw (in. 8S). Evidently, therefore, he hereracm the country and the people to have occu-k* a dktriet to the N. and NE. of Persia. Again,aWtat itiles (iii. 102) that the bravest of thefcon tribes are th**e who are in the immediateatp'virbaiid of the city of Caspatyrus and Pac-<r»; Kid he connects the tame two places togetherrtn t» Mates (iv. c. 44) that the celebrated"•"ft <f Serial of Caryanda. which was promotedJ haniai, the son of Hyataspcs, commenced from'trv hcaljties. Now we know that HecatacnsV StojA. B. «. r.) placed Caspatyrus in the•■tn of the Gsndarii (Fragm. p. 94, ed. Klau-•1): lames the strong inference that Pactyice wasr» i Gasiarica, if not, as Lurcher has supposed,*"£t the m-ne. [V.]i'A'TBIS. [Carctsa]PAI'AEL [India, p. 50, b.]F ".rJAEGUS (teSapyot, Arrian, Indie, c. 39), aai ,^»c7x of Persia, which appears to have flowedbrit tmrnu Gulf near the present Abushir. It; ««ib,V to identify this and some other namese-eyi Arrian from the Journals of Nearchus,^ to the physical changes which have taken•» r :» coast line. [V.]r ^'I.NTM, a town of Gallia Cispadana, knownf ran Pliny, who mentions the Padinates amongiJ-^-itu of that region (Plin. iii. 15. s. 20).I ti afbrus us no elue tn its position. Cluver.iertify it with Bondino, between Femorat «Vu»iJai bat this is a mere conjecture. IU p. 2*2.) [E. H. B.] fA'l's (TUSot: Po), the principal river of ^Italy, and much the largest river in Italy■ Ham Virgil calls it " fluviorum rex""1 l 4*1), and Strabo even erroneously termsp pattest river in Europe after the Danube.fc- ' pi Sf>4.) It has its sources in the Jfonte* " Hcj V»»ulus. one of the highest summitsP *«*mj Aipa (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20; Mel. ii.4.)*wi from thence to the Adriatic has a coursePliny estimates it at 300t including the windings, whichM mora. (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20.) Bothth the troth. According to'■ ickwiars its courx, including its winding,at 380 Italian, or 475 Roman miles., Kt Topogr. a" Italia, vol. iii. p. 284.),rt course through a mountainda into the plain a few miles fromthence flows without interruption; • past t broad level valley all the way toas far as Chi- vatto (through the district of the ancient Vagi-enni and Taurini), is nearly NE ;but after roundingthe hills of the Monferrat, it turns due V. , andpursues this course with but little variation thewhole way to the Adriatic The great plain orvalley of the Po is in fact one of the most im­portant physical features of Italy. Boundod on theN. by the Alps, and on the S. by the Apennines,both of which ranges have in this part of theircourse a general direction from W. to E., it forms agigantic trough-liko basin, which receives thewhole of the waters that flow from the southernslopes of the Alps and the northern ones of theApennines. Hence, as Pliny justly observes (/. c.)tthere is hardly any other river which, within thesame space, receives so many and such importanttributaries. Those from the north, on its left bank,arc the most considerable, being fed by the perpetualsnows of the Alps; and many of these form exten­sive lakes at the points where they first reach theplain; after quitting which they are deep and navi­gable rivers, though in some cases still very rapid.Pliny states that the Padus receives in all thirtytributary rivers, but it is difficult to know which hereckons as such; he himself enumerates only seven­teen; but this number can be increased almost in­definitely, if we include smaller streams. Theprincipal tributaries will be here enumerated inorder, beginning from the source, and proceedingalong the left bank. They are; 1. the Clusius(CAiiMone), not noticed by Pliny, but the name ofwhich is found in the Tabula; 2. the Duria,commonly called Duria Minor, or Dora Biparia;3. the Stura (Stura); 4. the Orgus (Oreo); 5.the Duria Major, or Bantica (Dora Balled), oneof the greatest of all the tributaries of the Padus;6. the Sesites (Setia): 7. the Ticinus (Ticino),flowing from the Lacus Verbamis (Logo Maggiore);8. the I.ajiiikr or Lambrus (Lambro), a much lessconsiderable stream, and which does not rise in thehigh Alps; 9. the Addua (Adda), flowing fromthe Lacus Latius or Logo diComo; 10. theOLUua(Oglio), which flows from the Lacus Sebinus (fxigoa" Iieo), and brings with it the tributary waters ofthe Mela (Mella) and Clusius (Chiese); 11. theMiscifs (Afineio), flowing from the Logo di Garda,or Lacus Benacus. Below this the Po cannot be saidto receive any regular tributary; for though it com­municates at more than one point with the Tartaroand Adige (Athesis).the channels are all artificial,andthe bulk of the waters of the Adige are carried out tothe sea by their own separate channel. [Athesis.]On the southern or right bank of the Padus itsprincipal tributaries are: I. the Tanari s (7a««ro),a large river, which has itself received the im-portant tributary streams of the Stura and Bor-mida, so that it brings with it almost all the watersof the Maritime Alps and adjoining tract of the Li-gurian Apennines ; 2. the Scrivia, a considerablestream, but the ancient name of which ii unknown;3. the Trf.uia (Trebbia), flowing by I'lacentia; 4.the Tarus (7aro); 5. the Nicia (Enza): fi. theGabellus of I'liny, called also Secia (Secchia); 7.the Sciji.tf.nna, now called the Banaro; 8. theKhknus (Reno), flowing near Bologna. To thesemay be added several smaller streams, viz.: theIdex (Idice), Silarus (Silforo), Vatrenus (Pirn.,now Santertio), and Sinnus (5mno), all of whichdischarge themselves into the southern ann of thePo, now called the Po di Primaro, and ancientlyknown as the Spiucticum Ostium, below the point