OCR Output THBACIA. 1183 THHACIA. taozbter, offered to buy her as a wife. (A nab. vii. !. S 39; ef. Mela, ii. 2.) The want of union among the Thracians is men-wimvI by Herodotus (v. 3) as the only cause ofKrir weakness. Their tribes, like the Highland.uk seem to have been constantly engaged in pettynrfare with one another, and to have been inca-..'i!* of co-operating even against foreign foes, except - vt-ry brief i*riods, and rarely with any higherwjert than plunder. Until a late period (Klor. iv.2- §17) they appear to have been destitute of dis-uptiae, sbd this, of course, rendered their bravery of•tnparatively little avail. Thus we learn fromrhucrdides (ii. 96, 98) that, although Sitalces was'i* i:K»t powerful Thracian king that had evertinned—(he seems indeed to have been subsequently cirltrd as a kind of national hero; Xen. A nab.11. §6),—yet a large part of the army with whichinvaded Macedonia consisted of mere volunteers,ormidabie chiefly for their numbers, and attracted > bis standard by his offers of pay, or by theiriop» of plunder. Any one, in fact, who held outt*K inducements, could easily raise an army inNime. Thus Clrarchus no sooner received sup- .m of money from Cyrus the Younger, than he,TtHii a force in the Chersnnesus, which, although;:-*at part undoubtedly Thracian, was employedy htm in ntaking war upon other Thracians, until - required to join Cyrus in Asia Minor (lb. i. 1.i 2. § 9, &c). So when Seuthes undertook the:j»d:iion against Ins so-called revolted subjects, hisr.v wis soon tripled by volunteers, who hastenedrrcn other parts of Thrace to serve him, as soon as <7 l.eard of bis enterprise (lb. vii. 4. § 21). Suchii:rrs could not, of course, be depended upm forne moment after a reverse. A considerable number: Tiirician mercenaries in the army of Cyrus took - rarJiest opportunity to desert to Artaxerxes afterbn battle of Cunaxa (lb. ii. 2. § 7). Tacitus (Arm. iv. -46) informs us that the prin-ifai cause of the insurrection (a. d. 26) of theLrjcitns who dwelt iu the elevated mountain dis­til (probably of Khodope), was their dislike of > roiiscription, which, it would appear, the Ro­mans had introduced iuto Thrace. This was a yoke which they could not submit; they were not ac-^j:fined to obey even their own rulers, except wheni>i<'ased them; and when they sent troops to thestance of their princes, they used to appuiut their«ti commanders, and to war against the neigh­ing tribes only. (Cf. I.iv. xlii. 51; Xen. A nab.a. 4. §24, 7. §29, seq.) Thnv ian troops were chiefly light-armed infantry>d irregular horse. (Xen.^nao.i. 2. § 9, vii.6. § 27,frmor. in. 9. § 2; Curt iii. 9.) The bravest of the■it-vddiers in the army of Sitalces were the free'autainrers of Khodope, who were armed withivt swords (uaxtup*>4>4poi; Thucyd. ii. 98). The(lament of the Asiatic Thracians is described byerudotu (vii. 75), and as this description agrees 'h what Xeuophon states respecting Seuthes'rces {A nab. vii. 4. § 4), it is no doubt sub-aatiaUy true of the Thracians generally. Theyj** fap» covering their ears, made of fox-skins,and party-coloured mantles (£«ipal, ? —ai.l>); their boots, which came high up the leg,wt mads of deer-skin; their amis were shields,retina, and daggers (cf. Thucyd. vii. 27). Thebnrtatts in the army of Philip V. were armediih Terr long rhvmphaeae, a word which someuulate jatclau, others stconU. (Liv. xssi. 39; PIuL Paul. AtmiL\7.) Thracian soldiers foughtwith iinpeniosity and with no lack of bravery; butthey, like all barbarian and undisciplined troopswere incapable sf sustained efforts. Livy (xlii. 59)describes them as rushing to the attack like wildbeasts long confined in cages: they hamstrung thehorses of their adversaries, or stabbed them in thebelly. When the victory was gained on tjiis occa­sion (the first encounter in the war between theRomans and Perseus), they returned to theircamp, singing loud songs of triumph, and carryingthe heads of the slain on the toj* of their weapons(lb. 60). When defeated, they fled with rapidity,throwing their shields upon their backs, to protectthem from the missiles of the pursuers. (Xen. A nab.vii. 4. § 17.) About the time of the Peloponneaian War, Thracebegan to be to the countries around the Aegeanwhat Switzerland has long, to its disgrace, been tothe despotic powers of modern Europe, a land wheremen might be procured to fight for any one whocould bold out sufficient inducements in the shapeof pay or plunder. (Thucyd. vii. 27, et alibi; Xen.A nab. i. pass.; Just. xi. 1 & 9.) The chief causesof this, apart from the character of its people, appearto have been the want of any central government,and the difficult nature of the country, which ren­dered its savage independence tolerably secure; sothat there was nothing to restrain those who mightwish to seek their fortune in foreign warfare. Dur­ing the period of Macedonian supremacy, and afterits close, under the Roman power, Thracians areoften mentioned as auxiliaries in Macedonian andRoman armies; but few of these, it is probable, werevolunteers. (Liv. xxxi. 39, xlii. 29, 51,etal.; Caea.B. C. iii. 4; Veil. Pat. ii. 112; Tac. Hist. I 68, &c,)Cicero (de Prov. Cow. 4) seems to imply thatThracians were sometimes hired to assassinate likethe modem Italian bravos; these were perhaps gla­diators, of whom great numbers were Thracians.Caligula gave the command of his German body­guard to Thracians. (Suet. Caluj. 55.) Another point in which the Thracians remind usof the natives of India, is mentioned by Thucydides(ii. 97) in these words: "The tribute of the bar­barians and of the Greek cities received by Seuthes,the successor of Sitalces, might be reckoned at 400talents of silver, reckoning gold and silver together.The presents in gold and silver amounted to as muchmore. And these presents were made not only tothe king, but also to the most influential and dis­tinguished of the Odrysae. For these people, likethose of Thrace generally, differ in this respect fromthe Persians, that they would rather receive thangive; and among them it is more shameful not togive when you are asked, than to be refused whenyou ask. It is true that abuses arise from thiscustom ; for nothing can be done without presents."(Cf. Liv. xlii. 19, xlv. 42; Tac Germ. 15.) Xeno-phon (A nab. vii. 3) gives some amusing illustrationsof this practice among the Thracians. Mention is often made of the singing and dancingof the Thracians, especially of a martial kind. Xe-nophon (Anab. vi. 1. § 5, seq.) gives an account of adance and combat performed by some Thracians, tocelebrate the conclusion of a peace between the rem­nant of the 10,000 Greeks and the Papblagouians:they danced fully armed to the music of the flute,jumping up nimbly to a considerable height, andfencing with their swords: at last, one man struckanother, to all apDearauce mortally and ho fell as if