OCR Output 188 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS Book XII. don, and Simon his brother was general of the army. And thiswas the first league that the Romans made with the Jews, andwas managed after this manner. CHAP. XI . That Bacchides was again sent out agaqist Judas ,' and howJudas Jell as he was courageously Jighting. § 1. XJUT when Demetrius was informed of the death of Ni-canor, and of the destruction of the army that was with him,he sent Bacchides again with an army into Judea, who marchedout of Antioch, and came into Judea, and pitched his camp atArbela, a city of Galilee, and having besieged and taken thosethat were there in caves, (for many of the people fled into suchplaces,) he removed, and made all the haste he could to Jerusa­lem. And when he had learned that Judas pitched his campat a certain village whose name was Bethzetho, he led his armyagainst him: they were twenty thousand footmen; and twothousand horsemen. Now Judas had no more soldiers than * onethousand. When these saw the multitude of Bacchides' menthey were afraid, and left their camp, and fled all away, exceptingeight hundred. Now when Judas was deserted by his own sol­diers, and the enemy pressed upon him, and gave him no time to§ather his army together, he was disposed to fight with Bacchi-es' army, though he had but eight hundred men with him; sohe exhorted these men to undergo the danger courageously, andencouraged them to attack the enemy. And when they said theywere not a body sufficient to fight so great an army, and advisedthat they should retire now, and save themselves, and that whenhe had gathered his own men together, then he should fall uponthe enemy afterwards, his answer was this: "Let not the sun"ever see such a thing that I should show my back to the ene-"my; and although this be the time that will bring me to my"end, and I must die in this battle, I will rather stand to it cou-"rageously, and bear whatsoever comes upon me, than by now"running away, bring reproach upon my former great actions,'; or tarnish their glory." This was the speech he made to thosethat remained with him, whereby he encouraged them to attackthe enemy. 2. But Bacchides drew his army out of their camp, and put * That this copy of Josephus, as he wrote it, had here not 100O but 3000 with1 Maccab. ix. 5. is very plain, because though the main part ran away at first evenin Josephus, as welt as in 1 Maccab. ix. 6. yet, as there, so here 8OO are said tohave remained with Judas, which would be absurd, if the whole number had beenno mote than 1000.