OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 369 mentioned augmentation of the number of quaestors bySulla to twenty was likewise connected with this arrange­ment.* By this plan, in the first instance, a clear and fixed rule Better ar-was substituted for the irregular mode of distributing offices rangemeuthitherto adopted, a mode which invited all manner of vile buslness-manoeuvres and intrigues; and, secondly, the excesses ofmagisterial authority were as far as possible obviated andthe influence of the supreme governing board was materiallyincreased. According to the previous arrangement the onlylegal distinction in the empire was that drawn between thecity which was surrounded by the ring-wall, and the regionbeyond the pomerium; the new arrangement substituted forthe city the new Italy thenceforth, as in perpetual peace,withdrawn from the regular imperiumfi and contrasted with itthe continental and transmarine territories which, on the con­trary, were necessarily placed under military commandants—the provinces as they were henceforth called. According to Increase ofthe former arrangement the same man had very frequently the p»wirremained two, and often more years in the same office. The ,enew arrangement restricted the magistracies of the capitalas well as the governorships throughout to one year; and thespecial enactment that every governor should without failleave his province within thirty days after his successor'sarrival there, shows very clearly—particularly if we takealong with it the formerly mentioned prohibition of theimmediate re-election of the late magistrate to the same oranother public office—what the tendency of these arrange­ments was. It was the time-honoured maxim by which thesenate had at one time made the monarchy subject to it,that the limitation of the magistracy in point of functionswas favourable to democracy, and its limitation in point oftime favourable to oligarchy. According to the previousarrangement Gaius Marius had acted at once as head of thesenate and as commander-in-chief of the state; if he hadhis own unskilfulness alone to blame for his failure to over- * As two quaestors were sent to Sicily, and one to each of the other provinces,and as moreover the two urban quaestors, the two attached to the consuls inconducting war, and the four quaestors of the fleet continued to subsist, nineteenmagistrates were annually required for this office. The department of thetwentieth quaestor cannot be ascertained. \ The Italian confederacy was much older (i. 440) ; but it was a league ofstates, not, like the Sullan Italy, a definite territory within the united Romanstate. VOL. III. 2 B