OCR Output 354 PARTHENOPfi. PARYADKES. //. ii. 854 : Hes. Theog. 344; Herod, ii. 104; Xenoph.Anab. v. G. § 9, vi. 2. § 1; Strati, xii. p. 543; Ptol.t. I. § 7; Arri.ni, Parlpl, p. 14; Stcph. B. s. v., whoerroneously states that the river flowed through themiddle of the town of A mas tr is; Ov. Ex Pont. ir.10. 49; Amin. Marc, xxii. 9.) [L. S.] PARTHE'NOPE. [Nkafous.]PA'RTHIA (v I\aP0va(a. St rah. xi. pp. 514.515,Sec.: v UafOvrifi}, Polyb. x. 28; Stepli. B.jr. r.; Curt.v.12; UapHiu, Ptol. vi. 5. § 1: Parthta, I'iin. vi. 15. s.1 6), originally a small district of Western Asia, shutin on all sides by either mountains or deserts. It washounded on the W. by .Media Atropatene, on the N.by Hyreania, on the K. by Ariana and M. Masdo-ranus, and on the S. by Carmania Deserta, M. Pura-choathras, and Persis. It comprehended, therefore,the southern part of Khurasan, almost all KohUtan,and some portion ot' the great Salt Desert, It wasfor tlin most part a mountainous and rugged district.The principal mountains were the Labns or Labutas(probably part of the great range now known by thename of the ElHurz Mts.), tbe Paracho&thras (orEtwend)f and the Masdoranus. Tbe few riverswhich it possessed were little more than mountainstreams, liable to violent and sudden floods on themelting of the snow, but nearly dry during thesummer: the only names which have been recordedof these streams are, the Zioberis or Stiboetcs, theRhidagus, and the Choatres. The principal divi­sions of the land were into Camisene, on the north:Parthyene, to the SVV. of Camisene, extending alongthe edge of the Caspian Sea, as far as the Caspiandates, a district which some have supposed to havebeen the original seat of the population, and thatfrom which the whole country derived its name;Choarene, the western portion of the land, and forthe most part a fruitful valley along the frontiers ofMedia; Apavarctene, to the S.; and Tahiene, alongthe borders of Carmania Deserta. There were nogreat towns in Parthia, properly so called, but his­tory has preserved the names of a few which playedan important part at different periods: of these, thebest known were Hecatompolls, the chief town of theParthians, and the royal residence of tbe dynasty ofthe Arsacidae, and Apatneia Rhagiana. Little is known of 1'ai lhian history at an earlyperiod; and it is probable that it was subject to thegreat empire of Persia, and subsequently to the firstsuccessors of Alexander, till the tirst Arsaees threwoil* the Syro-Macedonian rule, and established anative dynasty on the throne of Parthia in b. c. 256.Prom this period it grew rapidly more powerful, till,on the final decay of the house of titc Seleuctdae,flic Arsacidan dynasty possessed the rule of thegreater part of Western Asia. Their long wars withthe Romans are well known: no Eastern race wasable to make so effectual a resistance to the advanceof the Roman arms, or vindicated with more con­stancy and determination their natural freedom.The overthrow of Crassus, n. <;. 53, showed whateven the undisciplined Parthian troops could dowhen fighting fur freedom. (Dion Cuss. xl. 21.)Subsequent to this, tbe Romans were occasionallyhuecessful. Thus, in a. i>. 34, Vonones was .sent asa hostage to Rome (Tacit. Annnl ii. 1); andfinally the greater part of the country was sub­dued, successively, by the anus of Trajan, by An­toninus, and Caracal la, till, at length, the rise of thenew Sussaniun, or native dynasty of Persia, underthe command of Artaxerxcs 1. put an end to tbehouse of Arsaees (a, i>. 226). Subsequent to tins period there is a constant confusion is %s&rf,authors between Persians and Parthians. TWtory of the Parthian kings is given at length isDtct. of Biog. Vol. L p. 353, seq. The inhabitants of Parthia were called Parti.Tifl{UapOveuot, Polyb. x. 31: Strab. xi. p. 509; ArmAruib. iii.21; Ptol. iii. 13. §41) or Pirthi (IliffciHerod, iii. 93; Strab. xi. p. 624; Plin. vi. JS.1.MA mm, Marc xx'iii. 6), and were, 10 ail pfUaiio'ione of the many branches of the great I&»0e!manic family of nations. Their own tragus \;indeed, faithfully reported) was that they cm mof Scythia — for they were wont to say tiui I'lruameant exile in the Scythian tongue. (Jusita,Herodotus, too, classes them with the p»nJ» <Chorasmia and Sag di ana (iii. 39. vii. 66): «*j ."<nladmits that their manners resembled th;jw oS dScythians (xi. p. 515). On the other band. awo*research has demonstrated their direct odUKCta* *ithe Iranian tribes; their name is fouud in the 2<«to be Pardtt, in the Sanscrit Parana. (BamRevieioof Wilson's Ariana, Berl. Jaurb. iMi S107.) According to Strabo, who quotes P<*io.*it*ibis authority,the Parthians were governed bi tc«lcouncil, comj)«>sed of the nobles or relative d Iking (according as tlte reading tvytvitif « ftytvmv be adopted), and of the Magians (xi p.HAs a nation, they were famous for their saiii a Imanagement of tlie horse and for thnr to* <i'bow (Dion Cass, xl 15, 22; Dionra, 1045; PICrass, c. 24). and for the peculiar art wtnen dpractised in shooting with the bow from ber*fcwhen retreating. This peculiarity is repealnoticed bv the Roman p<ets. (Virg. Gevrg. nilHorat. Carm. i. 19. 11, ii. 13. 17; Oid. J^*i. 209.) In tlieir treatment of their kiannobles they were considered to carry ther *8tion even beyond the nsual Orient:il excess. (VGeorq. iv. 211; Martial, Epigr. x. 72,1 — 5 ) { PARTHPNT. [Paktiikm ] PAR I HUM (UdpBov or nd^ut, A;r n Jviii. 39). a town in the jurisdiction of CartMlthe neighbourhood of Zaina. [T. H_U PARTHUS, in Ulvricum. [Parthkm.] PARU& [Pabos,] PARUTAE (Uapoinat. Ptol. vi. 17- § SJ. »1placed by Ptolemy on the outskirts of tfc* tpamisus in Ariana. It is probable that tbe* aderive their name from the Sanscrit Parrmia, aing mountain tribes. PARYADRES (UapvdSprjs. Uaovdfi^, *r IIdpfajs), a range of lofty and rugired tDuusUi>ilnorth of Puntua, which is connected mih UTaurus and Mount Caucasus (Strab. si. a.xii. p, 54S; Plin. v. 27, vi. 9. 11). It cxr-r-aat the western extremity of the Monte* ii**proceeds in a south-western direction rou»d 1%ami there forms the frontier bet w era ArnaEfuCappadocia, A more southern branch of ii»mountain is the Scordisea. Ptolemy (t, 13, i,;docribes this mountain as containing the> soanthe Euphrates and A rases, and acotrdicg-N uxwithin its range Mount Abus, fn-ra hLj.?; imake those rivers tlow. The Paryaarea **f~l-*tsources of only small rivers, of which tbe lar?the Absarus. The mountain was in ujot-thickly covered with wood, and tar s»f*BLAi»«iand about it consisted of rubbers (ixrao. a£ jiMany parts of the mountain arr exTmnrit nand almost inaccessible, whence MithrMfcxte* jtus built many of his tn.'.-uure-housca