OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 471 brochures of Courier, acquired a permanent place in literaturefrom the important position of their authors or from theirown weight. Such were the political speeches of G-aiusLaelius and of Scipio iEmilianus, masterpieces of excellentLatin as of the noblest patriotism; such were the fluentspeeches of Gaius Titius, from whose pungent pictures of theplace and the time—his description of the senatorial judexhas been given already (P. 419)—the national comedyborrowed various points; such above all were the nume­rous orations of Gains Gracchus, whose fiery words pre­served in a faithful mirror the impassioned earnestness,the noble bearing, and the tragic destiny of that highlygifted nature. In scientific literature the collection of juristic opinions Sciences.by Marcus Brutus, which was published about the year 600, 15o.presents a remarkable attempt to transplant the Greekmethod of handling professional subjects by means of dia­logue to Rome, and to give to his treatise an artistic semi-dramatic form by a machinery of conversation in which thepersons, time, and place, were distinctly specified. But thelater men of science, such as Stilo the philologist and Sctevolathe jurist, laid aside this method, more poetical than practi­cal, both in the sciences of general culture and in the specialprofessional sciences. The increasing value of science assuch, and the preponderance of the practical interest in it atRome, are clearly reflected in this rapid rejection of thefetters of artistic form. "We have already spoken (P. 441)in detail of the sciences of general liberal culture, grammaror rather philology, rhetoric and philosophy, in so far asthese now became essential elements of the usual Romantraining and thereby first began to be dissociated from theprofessional sciences properly so called. In the field of Philology,letters Latin philology flourished vigorously, in close asso­ciation with the philological treatment—long ago firmly esta­blished—of Greek literature. It was already mentionedthat about the beginning of this century the Latin epicpoets found their diaskeuastm and revisers of their text(P. 442); it was also noticed, that not only did theScipionic circle generally insist on correctness aboveeverything else, but several also of the most noted poets,such as Accius and Lucilius, busied themselves with theregulation of orthography and of grammar. At the sameperiod we find isolated attempts to develop archaeology