OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1T9 Schirin,(l) her wit, her musical talents, are still famous in the history, or ratherin the romances of the east: her own name is expressive, in the Persian tongue, ofsweetness and grace; and the epithet of Parvis alludes to the charms of her royallover. Yet Sira never shared the passion which she inspired, and the bliss ofChosroes was tortured by a jealous doubt, that while he possessed her person, shehad bestowed her affections on a meaper favourite. (2) While the majesty of the Roman name was revived in the east, the prospect ofEurope is less pleasing and less glorious. By the departure of the Lombards, andthe ruin of the Gepidsc, the balance of power was destroyed on the Danube; andthe Avars spread theirpermanent dominion from the foot of the Alps to the sea-coast of the Euxine. The reign of Baian is the brightest era of their monarchy;their chagan, who occupied the rustic palace of Attila, appears to have imitatedhis character and policy;(3) but as the same scenes were repeated in a smaller cir­cle, a minute representation of the copy would be devoid of the greatness and no­velty of the original. The pride of the second Justin, of Tiberius, and Maurice,was humbled by a proud barbarian, more prompt to inflict, than exposed to sufferthe injuries of war; and as often as Asia was threatened by the Persian arms, Eu­rope was oppressed by the dangerous inroads, or costly friendship of the Avars.When the Roman envoys approached the presence of the chagan, they werecommanded to wait at the door of his tent, till, at the end perhaps of ten or twelvedays, he condescended to admit thera. If the substance or the style of their mes­sage was offensive to his ear, he insulted, with a real or affected fury, their owndignity, and that of their prince; their baggage was plundered, and their liveswere only saved by the promise of a richer present and a more respectful address.But his sacred ambassadors enjoyed and abused an unbounded license in the midstof Constantinople: they urged with importunate clamours, the increase of tribute,or the restitution of captives and deserters; and the majesty of the empire was al­most equally degraded by a base compliance, or by the false and fearful excuses,with which they eluded such insolent demands. The chagan had never seen anelephant; and his curiosity was excited by the strange, and perhaps fabulous, por­trait of that wonderful animal. At his command, one of the largest elephants ofthe imperial stables was equipped with stately caparisons, and conducted by anumerous train to the royal village in the plains of Hungary. He surveyed theenormous beast with surprise, with disgust, and possibly with terror; and smiledat the vain industry of the Romans, who, in search of such useless rarities, couldexplore the limits of the land and sea. He wished, at the expense of the emperor,to repose in a golden bed. The wealth of Constantinople, and the skilful diligenceof her artists, were instantly devoted to the gratification of his caprice; but whenthe work was finished, he rejected with scorn a present so unworthy the majestyof a great king. (4) These were the casual sallies of his pride, but the avarice ofthe chagan was a more steady and tractable passion; a rich and regular supply ofsilk apparel, furniture, and plate, introduced the rudiments of art and luxuryamong the tents of the Scythians; their appetite was stimulated by the pepper andcinnamon of India;(5) the annual subsidy or tribute was raised from fourscore toone hundred and twenty thousand pieces of gold; and after each hostile interrup- (1) The Greeks only describe her as a Roman by birth, a Christian by religion; but she is represented asthe daughter of the emperor Maurice in the Persian and Turkish Romances, which celebrate the lore ofKhosrou for Schirin, of Schirin for Ferhad, the most beautiful youth of the east. D'Herbelot, Bibtiolh. Ori­ental, p. 789. 097,998. (2) The whole series of the tyranny of Hormouz, the revolt of Bahram, and the flight and restoration ofChosroes, is related by two cotemporary Greeks—more concisely by Evagrius, (lib. vs. c. 10—19.)—and mostdiffusely by Theophylact Simocatta: (lib. iii. c. vi.—18. lib. iv. c. 1—IS. lib. v. c. 1—1 J.) succeeding compilers,Zonaras and Cedrenus, can only transcribe and abridge. The Christian Arabs Eutychtus, (Annak torn. ii. p.200—208.) and Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 96—98.) appear to have consulted some particular memoirs. Thegreat Persian historians of the fifteenth century, Mirkhond and Khondemir, are only known to me by the im­perfect extracts of Sbikark, (Tarikh, p. 150—lis.) Texeira, or rather Stevens, (Hist, of Persia, p. 182—188.) aTurkish MS. translated by the abbe Fourmont, (Hist, de I'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. vii. p. 325—334.)and d'Herbelot,(anx mots, Hormouz, p. 457—459. Bahram, p. 174. Kliosrou Parviz, p. 996. Were I perfect­ly satisfied of their authority. I could wish these oriental materials had been more copious. (3) A general idea of the pride and power of the chagan may be taken from Mrnander, (Excerp. Legat. p.117, &c. and Theophylact, lib. i. c. 3. lib. vii.c. IS.) whose eight books are much more honourable to the Avarthan to the Roman prince. The predecessors of Baian had tasted the liberality of Rome, and he survivedthe reign of Maurice, (Bunt, Hist, des Peuples Barbares, torn. it. p. 54S.) The chagan who invaded Italy, A.J). 611.(Muratori, Annali. torn. v. p. 305.) was then juvenili setate florentem, (Paul Warnefrid.de Geit Lan-gobard, lib. v. c. 38.) the son, perhaps, or the grandson of Baian. M) Theophylact, lib. i. c. 5,6. . (5) Even in the field, the chagan delighted in the use of these aromaties. He solicited as a gift. Mum;.xapuz**;, and received twrtpt Kxt qvkkov Iv&ui-, xxtnxo rt scat tck /.eyo^svoi/ xsarov. Theophylact, lib. vii. CIS.The Europeans of the ruder ages consumed more spices in their meat and drink than is compatible with the.delicacy of a modern palate. Vie Priee des Francois, torn. ri. p. 162,163.