OCR Output LEMANIS PORTUS. 1J5 LEMNOS. town called Pedasus at the foot of Mount Ida. (77.xxi. 86.) Strabo relates that Leleges and Cariansonre occupied the whole of Ionia, and that in theMilesian territory and in all Caria tombs and fortsof the Leleges were shown. He further says thatthe two were so intermingled that they were fre­quently regarded as the same people. (Strab. vii.p. 321, xiii. p. 611.) It would therefore appear thatthere was some close connection between the Le-lege-. and Carians, though they were probably diffe-mit peoplt-s. The Leleges seem at one time tohave occupied a considerable part of the westerncoast of Asia Minor. They were the earliest knowninhabitants of Samoa. (Athen. xv. p. 672.) Theconnection of the leleges and the Carians was pro­bably the foundation of the Megarian tradition,that in the twelfth generation after Car, Lelex cameover from Egypt to Megara, and gave his name tothe people (Pans. i. 39. § 6) ; but their Egyptianorigin was evidently an invention of later times,when it became the fashion to derive the civilisationof Greece from that of Egypt, A grandson of thisLelex is said to hare led a colony of MegarianLeleges into Messenia, where they founded Pylus,ami remained until they were driven out by Neleusand the Pelasgians from Iolcos; whereupon theytook possession of Pylus in Elis. (Paus.v. 36. § 1.)The Lacedaemonian traditions, on the other hand,represented the Leleges as the autochthons of La-coma ; they spoke of Lelex as the first native ofthe soil, from whom the people were called Lelegesand the land Lelegia; and the son of this Lelex issail to have been the first king of Messenia. (Pans,hi. 1. § I, iv. 1. §§ 1, 5.) Aristotle seems to haveregarded Leu cadia, or the western parts of Acar-nanla, as the original seats of the Leleges : for, ac­cording to this writer, Lelex was the autochthon ofLeucadia, and from him were descended the Tele-boans, the ancient inhabitants of the Taphianislands. He also regarded them as the same peopleas the Locrians, in which he appears to have followedthe authority of Hesiod, who spoke of them as thesubjects of Locrus, and as produced from the stoneswith which Deucalion repeopled the earth after thedeluge, (Strab. vii. pp. 321,322.) Hence all theinhabitants of Mount Parnassus, Locrians, Phocians,Boeotians, and others, are sometimes described asLedges. (Comp. Dionys. Hal. i. 17.) (See Thirl-wall. Hut. of Greece, vol. i. p. 42, seq.) LEMANIS PORTUS (Kairoi \tphv, Ptol. ii. 3.| 4), one of the chief seaports of Britain, situatedio the territories of the Cantii; the site near Ijymne,ta Kent. The road from Dnrovemum to Portusi*roamj (/fm. Anton, iv.) is extant nearly its entirelength, and known by the name of Stone Street. The harbour or port is no longer to be traced,owing to the silting up of the sea; but it must haveb*en situated opposite to West Hythe and Lymne.The remains of the castmm, called Stutfall Castle,tn the west of Wert Hythe, and below Lymne, indi­cate the quarters of the Turnacensian soldiers sta­tioned there in defence of the Littus Saxotiicnm.(Ac*. Dig,') Recent discoveries have shown that aWj of marines (Classiarii Britannici) were alsolocated at the Portus Lemanis, and at Dubris(Ihrrr). An altar was also found, recording thetame of a prefect of the British fleet. {Report<*i Excarations made at Lymne.') The PortusLtnanis is laid down in the Peutingerian Tables,«od H u mentioned by the anonymous Geographer ofKtTenca, The Roman station was situated on the slope of ahill. Like that of Richbor&ugh (Rutupiae), it waswalled on three sides only; the side facing the seabeing sufficiently defended by nature in a steepbank, such as we see at other Roman castra wherethe engineers have availed themselves of a naturaldefence to save the expense and labour of buildingwalls. The fortress enclosed about 10 acres. Thowalls, in part only now standing, were upwards of20 ft. high, and about 10 ft, thick; they were furtherstrengthened by semicircular solid towers. Theprincipal entrance was on the east, facing the site ofthe village of West Hythe. It was supported bytwo smaller towers, and, as recent excavations prove,by other constructions of great strength. Oppositeto this, on the west, was a postern gate, of narrowdimensions. At some remote period the castrumwas shattered by a land-slip, and the lower part wascarried away, and separated entirely from the upperwall, which alone stands in its original position. Tothis cause is to be ascribed the present disjointedand shattered condition of the lower part. Parts ofthe wall and the great gateway were completelyburied. The excavations alluded to brought themto light, and enabled a plan to be made. Within thoarea were discovered the walls of one of the barracks,and a large house with several rooms heated by ahypocaust [C. B. S.] LEMANUS or LEMANNUS LACUS (A^oeos,Affidmrj Atpvr}: Lemon Lake or Lake of Geneva).Caesar says (B. G. i. 8) that he drew his rampartagainst the Helvetii "from the Lacus Lemannus,which flows into the Rhone, as far as the Jura;" aform of expression which some of the commentatorshave found fault with and altered without anyreason. The name Aipivn Aifivn in Ptolemy's text(ii. 10. § 2) is merely a copyist's error. In theAntonine Itin. the name Lausonius Lacus occurs;and in the Table, Losannensis Lacus. Mela (ii. 5),who supposes the Rhodanus to rise not far from thesources of the Rhenus and the Ister, says that,"after being received in the Lemannus Lacus, theriver maintains its current, and flowing entire throughit, runs out as large as it came in." Strabo (p. 271)has a remark to thesame purpose, and Pliny (ii. 103),and Ammianus Marcellinus (xv. 11). This is not thefact, as we may readily suppose, though the currentof the Rhone is perceptible for some distance afterthe river has entered the east end of the lake ofGeneva. Ausonius (De Clar. Urb. Narbo) makesthe lake the chief source of the Rhodanus:—Qua rapitur pracceps Rhodanus genitore Lemanno; but this poetical embellishment needs no remark. The Lake of Geneva is an immense hollow filledby the Rhone and some smaller streams, and ispropcrlv described under another title. [Riiopa-KU8.] [G. L.] LEMA'VI. [Gam.akcia.] LEM1NCXJM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placed inthe Table and the Antonine Itin. on a road from theAlpis Grain {Little St. Bernard) to Vienna ( Vienne).Lemincum is Tremens, near Chambery, and there isalso, according to some authorities, a Mont Leminc.The next station to Lemincum on the road to Viennais Labiscum. [Labiscum.] [G. L.] LEMNOS {Arifivos: Eth. A-hpvtos), one of thelarger islands in the Aegaean sea, situated nearlymidway Iwtween Mount Athos and the Hellespont-According to Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23), it lay 22 milesSW. of Imbros, and 87 miles SE. of Athos; but the