OCR Output 500 ROMAN EMPIRE. great circle of the earth, and determined at twenty-fourthousand miles the entire circumference of our globe.pFrom the reign of the Abbassides to that of the grand­children of Tamerlane, the stars, without the aid ofglasses, were diligently observed; and the astronomicaltables'1 of Bagdad, Spain, and Samarcand, correct someminute errors, without daring to renounce the hypothesisof Ptolemy, without advancing a step towards the disco­very of the solar system. In the eastern courts, thetruths of science could be recommended only by ig­norance and folly, and the astronomer would have beendisregarded, had he not debased his wisdom or honestyby the vain predictions of astrology/ But in the scienceof medicine, the Arabians have been deservedly ap­plauded. The names of Mesua and Geber, of Razis andAvicenna, are ranked with the Grecian masters; in thecity of Bagdad, eight hundred and sixty physicians werelicensed to exercise their lucrative profession ;s in Spain,the life of the Catholic princes was intrusted to the skillof the Saracens,' and the school of Salerno, their legiti­mate offspring revived in Italy and Europe the preceptsof the healing art." The success of each professor musthave beeri influenced by personal and accidental causes; i' Abulfeda (Annal. Moslem, p. 210,311. vrrs Reiske) describes this operationaccording to 1 bn Challecan, and the best historians. This degree most accuratelycontains two hundred thousand royal or Hashemite cubits, which Arabia had de­rived from the sacred and legal practice both of Palestine and Egypt. Thisancient cubit is repeated four hundred times in each bans of the great pyramid,and seems to indicate the primitive and universal measures of the east. See theMetrologie of the laborious M. Paucton, p. 101—105. i See the Astronomical Tables of Ulugh Begh, with the preface of Dr. Hyde,in the first volume of Ms Syntagma Dissertationum, Oxon. 1767. 'The truth of astrology was allowed by Albumazar, and the best of the Arabianastronomers, who drew their most certain predictions, not from Venus and Mer­cury, but from Jupiter and the sun. (Abulpharag. Dynast, p. 161—163.) Forthe state and science of the Persian astronomers, see Chardin. (Voyages en Perse,torn. 3. p. 16«—203.) 'Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 1. p. 438. The original relates a pleasanttale, of an ignorant but harmless practitioner. 'In the year 956, Sancho the Fat, king of Leon, was cured by the physiciansof Cordova. (Mariana, lib. 1. c. 7. torn. 1. p. 318.) "The School of Salerno, and the introduction of the Arabian sciences into Italy,are discussed with learning and judgment by Muratori (Antiquat. Italiie Medii.Kvi. torn. 3. p. 932—940.) and Giannone. (Istoria Civili di Napoli, torn. 3.p. 119—127.)