OCR Output 18 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. partisans of Rome in the town, appeared with a superior1force before its walls, and compelled the authorities todeliver up to him the leaders of the movement, 400 of theflower of the youth, whose hands were all cut off by order ofthe Roman general. The Numantines, thus deprived oftheir last hope, sent to Scipio to negotiate as-to their sub­mission and called on the brave man to spare the brave;but when the envoys on their return announced that Scipiorequired unconditional surrender, they were torn in piecesby the furious multitude, and a fresh interval elapsed tillfamine and pestilence had completed their work. At lengtha second message was sent to the Roman head-quarters,that the town was now ready to submit at discretion.When the citizens were accordingly instructed to appear onthe following day before the gates, they asked for some days'delay, to allow those of their number who had determinednot to survive the loss of liberty time to die. It wasgranted, and not a few took advantage of it. At last themiserable remnant appeared before the gates. Scipio chosefifty of the most eminent to form part of his triumphalprocession; the rest were sold into slavery, the city waslevelled with the ground, and its territory was distributedamong the neighbouring towns. This occurred in the133. autumn of 621, fifteen months after Scipio had assumed thecommand. The fall of Numantia struck at the root of the oppositionthat was still here and there stirring against Rome; mili­tary demonstrations and the imposition of fines sufficed tosecure the acknowledgment of the Roman supremacy in allHither Spain.The Gal- In Further Spain the Roman dominion was confirmed laeci con- and extended by the subjugation of the Lusitanians. Thequered. consul Decimus Junius Brutus, who came in Caepio'sroom, settled the Lusitanian war-captives in the neighbour­hood of Saguntum, and gave to their new town Valentia138. (Valencia), like Carteia, a Latin constitution (616); he138-136. moreover (616-618) traversed the Iberian west coast invarious directions, and was the first of the Romans to reachthe shore of the Atlantic Ocean. The towns of the Lusi­tanians, which were obstinately defended by their inhabit­ants, both men and women, were subdued by him; and thehitherto independent Gallaeci were united with the Romanprovince after a great battle, in which 50,000 of them are