OCR Output 330 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. S'• • CHAP. XIII. i Designs of Malius.—A Dictator created. this time, one Sp. Mseiius of the equestrian order,who was very rich for these times, put a design in exe-cutiou, which, however serviceable for the present, iu itstendency and intention, was execrable. For, -havingbought up corn, at his own expence inEtruria, by meansof his agents and correspondents, (a circumstance whichrendered Minucius' endeavours to supply the marketsquite ineffectual)^ he began to distribute it. among tlienecessitous with a liberal hand. Touched with so muchgenerosity, the people attended him every where, aodformed a retinue for him, far above the condition of aprivate gentleman, and gave him great grounds to hope,that by their favour and good will, he would one day beraised to the consulship. But as ambition is ever insa­tiable, and still grasping; at something beyond its reach,he carried his views much farther, and quite out of bissphere. He considered, that he roust force himself intothe cbnsulship, in spite of every opposition from the fa­thers, and that therefore it was better to fix on sovereignpower for his object at once: as that alone was a prizeworthy-of the deep designs he must necessarily form,and the opposition he had to conquer. It was just upon the eve of the Comttia for electingconsuls, a circumstance that gave him no small trouble,as his measures were not properly concerted, nor his de­signs ripe for execution. T. Quinctius Capitolinus waschosen consul for the sixth time, a man of all others, themost inconvenient to any person who wanted to play agame of this kind. Agrippa Menenius, surnamed La-natus, was given him for his colleague. L. Minuciuswas continued in his office, either as being re-elected-, orbecause his office did not expire, till the occasion of itwas superseded. For, we have no other proof of thematter, but that his name stands registered among tjiemagistrates of this and the preceding year, iu the linenrecords. The duty of the purveyor's office obliged luuito do the same in public, which M&lius took upon him­