OCR Output 334 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book f. her, who was his mother-in-law and his aunt, into the like dan­gers with themselves; so he sent to her to take care of her ownsafety, and told her, that the king was preparing to put her todeath, on account of the accusation that was laid againt her, asif when she formerly endeavoured to marry herself to Sylleusthe Arabian, she had discovered the king's grand secrets to him,who was the king's enemy; and this it was that came as thelast storm, and entirely sunk the young men when they werein great danger before. For Salome came running to the king,and informed him of what admonition had been given her, where­upon he could bear no longer, but commanded both the youngmen to be bound, and kept the one asunder from the other. Healso sent Volumnius, the general of his army, to Caesar imme­diately, as also his friend Olympus with him, who carried theinformations in writing along with them. Now as soon as theyhad sailed to Rome, and delivered the king's letters to Caesar,Caesar was mightily troubled at the ease of the young men; yetdid not he think he ought to take the power from the father ofcondeming his sons; so he wrote back to him, and appointed himto have the power over his sons; but said withal, that " he would'* do well to make an examination into this matter of the plot" against him, in a public court, and to take for his assessors'« his own kindred, and the governors of the province. And if" those sons be found guilty, to put them to death; but if they«« appear to have thought of no more than fly ing away from him," that he should moderate their punishment." 2. With these directions Herod complied, and came to B«ry-tus, where Caesar had ordered the court to be assembled, andgot the judicature together. The presidents sat first, as Caesar'9letters had appointed, who were Saturninus, and Pedanius, andtheir lieutenants that were with them, with whom was the pro­curator Volumnius also; next to them sat the king's kinsmenand friends, with Salome also, and Pheroras; after whom satthe principal men of all Syria, excepting Archekus; for Herodhad a suspicion of him, because he was Alexander's father-in-law. Yet did not he produce his sons in open court; and thiswas done very cunningly, for he knew well enough that hadthey but appeared only, they would certainly have been pitied;and if withal they had been suffered to speak, Alexander wouldeasily have answered what they were accused of; but they werein custody at Platane, a village of the Sidoniaiis. 3. So the king got up, and inveighed against his sons as if theywere present ; and as for that part of the accusation that theyhad plotted p.gainst him, he urged it but faintly, because he wasdestitute of proofs; but he insisted before the assessors on the re­proaches, and jests, and injurious carriage, and ten thousand the like