OCR Output DECLINE ANI> FALL [CHAP. XLI. contempt might perhaps be due to the naked youths whoappeared on foot in the fields of Troy, and, lurking be­hind a tombstone, or the shield of a friend, drew thebowstring to their breast,' and dismissed a feeble andlifeless arrow. But our archers (pursues the historian)are mounted on horses, which they manage with admi­rable skill; their head and shoulders are protected by aCasque or buckler; they wear greaves of iron on theirlegs, and their bodies are guarded by a coat of mail. Onjtheir right side hangs a quiver, a sword on the left, andtheir hand is accustomed to wield a lance, or javelin, incloser combat. Their bows are strong and weighty; theyshoot in every possible direction, advancing, retreating,* to the front, to the rear, or to either flank; and as theyare taught to draw the bowstring not to the breast, butto the right ear} firm indeed must be the armour thatcan resist the rapid violence of their shaft." Five hun­dred transports, navigated by twenty thousand marinersof Egypt? Cilicia, and Ionia, were collected in the har­bour of Constantinople. The smallest of these vesselsmay be computed at thirty, the largest at five hundred(tons; and the fair average will supply an allowance, li­beral, but not profuse, of about one hundred thousandtons,* for the reception of thirty-five thousand soldiersand sailors, of five thousand horses, of arms, engines, andmilitary stores, and of a sufficient stock of water and pro­of Diomede, (Iliad, A. 335, &c.) and the permittere vulnera ventis of Lacan: (8.3f!4.) yet fhe Romans conld not despise the arrows of the Farthians: and in the siegeof Troy, Pandarus, Paris, and Teucer, pierced those haughty warriors who insultedthem as women or children. 1 Nsupijv mev f/.afa TueXswev, to£v Se <Ti5iigCT. (Iliad, A, 123.) How concise—howjust—how beautiful is the whole picture! I see the attitudes of the archer—I hearthe twanging of the bow,— - Aiyfe &t°;, vsugfl Se fj.ty ia.~xp, aXro S' siVto;.k The. t?xt appears to allow for the largest vessels fifty thousand medimni, orthree*thousand tons (since the medimnus weighed one hundred and sixty Roman, orone hundred and twenty avoirdupois, pounds). I have given a more rational interpre­tation, by supposing that the Attic style of Procopius conceals the legal and popu­lar modius, a sixth part of the medimnus. (Hooper's Ancient Measures, p. 152, &c.)A contrary, and indeed a stranger, mistake, has crept into an oration of Dmarchus(contra fiemosthenem, in Reiske Orator. Griec. tom. 4. p. 2. p. 34.) By reduoingthe number of ships from five hundred to fifty, and translating wSifMai by mines orpounds. Cousin has generously allowed five hundred tons for the whole of the impe­rial fleet!—Did he never think?