OCR Output 130 THE ANNALS rA.U.C.772.! f | life, the graces of his person, the manner of his death,and the small distance between the places where both 'expired, gave room for the comparison. Both, it wasobserved, were of a comely form; both of illustriousbirth; neither of them much exceeding the thirtiethyear of his age; and both died in a foreign land, cutoff by domestic treachery. But Germanicus hadqualities peculiar to himself: he was mild and gra­cious to his friends, in his pleasures temperate, anaffectionate husband, and by one wife the father of anumerous issue. Nor was his military character anyway inferior: he had the bravery of Alexander, with­out his rashness; and, if he had not been recalled fromGermany, where he gained so many signal victories,the entire conquest of that country had crowned hisoperations with immortal glory. The power of thestate was never in his hands. Had he possessed thesole authority, with the royal title, and the preroga­tive of a prince, the progress of his arms would havemade him equal to the conqueror of Darius; while,,on the side of virtue, his clemency, his moderation,his temperance, and other amiable qualities, gave hima decided superiority. The body lay in state in theforum at Antioch, where the funeral ceremony was' performed. Whether any symptoms of poison werediscovered, is uncertain. The people were dividedinto opposite parties, and their opinions varied ac­cordingly. Some lamented a deceased prince, and, inminds so prepossessed, suspicion amounted to proof;others warped into the interests of Piso; and all pro­nounced according to the bias of their inclinations. LXXIV. In this juncture, who was the fit personto govern the province', became the subject of debate.A council for this purpose was held by the comman­ders of the legions, and all of senatorian rank, thenon the spot. A number of candidates appeared. Af­ter a short struggle, the contest lay between VibiusMarsus and Cneius Sentius. The question hung forsome time in suspense. Marsus at length withdrewhis pretensions; willing to yield to a senior officer,who showed himself ambitious of the honour. Thefirst step of the new governor was to send to Rome a