OCR Output C. VIII.] THE SECOND WALL. 201 people, he had them of a long time ready to comply with hisproposals; but as to the fighting-men, this humanity of hisseemed a mark of his weakness, and they imagined that hemade these proposals because he was not able to take the restof the city. They also threatened death to the people, if theyshould any one of them say a word about a surrender. They,moreover, cut the throats of such as talked of a peace, andthen attacked those Romans that were come within the wall.Some of them they met in the narrow streets, and some theyfought against from their houses, when they made a suddensally out at the upper gates, and assaulted such Romans aswere beyond the wall, till those that guarded the wall were soaffrighted that they leaped down from their towers, and re­tired to their several camps: upon which a great noise wasmade by the Romans that were within, because they were en­compassed round on every side by their enemies, as also bythem that were without, because they were in fear for thosothat were left in the city. Thus did the Jews grow more nu­merous perpetually, and had great advantages over the Ro­mans by their full knowledge of those narrow lanes; and theywounded a great many of them, and fell upon them, and drovethem out of the city. Now these Romans were at presentforced to make the best resistance they could, for they werenot able, in great numbers, to get out at the breach in thowall, it was so narrow. It is also probable that all those thatwere gotten within had been cut to pieces, if Titus had notsent them succors, for he ordered the archers to stand at theupper ends of these narrower lanes, and ho stood himselfwhere was the greatest multitude of his enemies, and with hisdarts he put a stop to them, as with him did Domitius Sabinusalso, a valiant man, and one that in this battle appeared soto be. Thus did Caesar continue to shoot darts at the Jewscontinually, and to hinder them from coming upon his men,and this until all his soldiers had retreated out of the city. 2. And thus were the Romans driven out, after they hadpossessed themselves of the second wall: whereupon the fight­ing-men that were in the city wore lifted up in their minds,and wero elevated upon this their good success, and began to