OCR Output CHAP. LI. the forest, or rather wilderness, was cleared, the vestigesof a Roman town were discovered in a sandy plain : thevegetable food of Cairoan is brought from afar; and thescarcity of springs constrains the inhabitants to collect incisterns and reservoirs a precarious supply of rain-water.These obstacles were subdued by the industry of Akbah;he traced a circumference of three thousand and six hun­dred paces, which he encompassed with a brick wall;in the space of five years, the governor's palace was sur­rounded with a sufficient number of private habitations;a spacious mosch was supported by five hundred columnsof granite, porphyry, and Numidian marble; and Cai­roan became the seat of learning as well as of empire.But these were the glories of a later age; the new colonywas shaken by the successive defeats of Akbah and Zo-beir, and the western expeditions were again interruptedby the civil discord of the Arabian monarchy. The sonof the valiant Zobeir maintained a war of twelve years,a siege of seven months, against the house of Ommiyah.Abdallah was said to unite the fierceness of the lion withthe subtlety of the fox; but if he inherited the courage,he was devoid of the generosity, of his father.*_ The return of domestic peace allowed the of car- caliph Abdalmalek to resume the conquest ofA*$.' Africa; the standard was delivered to Hassan69*—ess. gOVernor Of Egypt, and the revenue of that king-dom,with an army of forty thousand men,was consecratedto the important service. In the vicissitudes of war, theinterior provinces had been alternately won and lost bythe Saracens. But the sea-coast still remained in thehands of the Greeks; the predecessors of Hassan had re­spected the name and fortifications of Carthage; and thenumber of its defenders was recruited by the fugitives of • Besides the Arabic chronicles of Abulfeda, Elmacin, and Abalpharagius, underthe seventy-third year of the Hegira, we may consult d'Herbelot (Bibliot. Orient.p. 7.) and Ockley. (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 339—3490 The latter has giventhe last and pathetic dialogue between Abdallah and bis mother; but be has forgota physical effect of fcw grief for his death, the return, at the age of ninety, and fatalconsequences, of her men wi. 2 F2