OCR Output 424 NICAEA.NIC EH. to tlie E. of tli.it river, was naturally included inItaly, anil is accordingly so described by StraboPliny, and Ptolemy. (Strab. iv. p. 184; Plin. iii.5. s. 7; Pt**l. iii. 1. § 2.) We have no account ofits early history, beyond the fact that it was acolony of Manilla, and appear! to have continuedalwaja in a state of dependency upon that city.(Strab. iv. pp. 180, 184; Plin, /. c; Steph. B.*.r.)It was situated on the bordera of the LigurUn tribesof the Oxybii and Decintes; and, as well as itsneighbour Antip>»lis, was continually harassed bytin; incursions of these barbarians. In u. t'. 154both cities wen? actually besieged by the Ligurians;and the Massiliaus, finding themselves unable to re­pulse the assailants, applied to Rome for assistance;the consul Q. Opimius, who was despatched withan army to tlieir succour, quickly compelled theLiguri.tns to lay down their amis, and deprived themof a considerable part of their territory, which wasannexed to the dependency of Manilla. (I'ol. xxxiii.4, 7; Liv. Epit. xlvii.) From this time, nothingmore is heard in history of Nicaea. which continuedto belong to the jurisdiction of Masjilia, and, evenafter it came to be subject to the Romans, andincluded geographically in Italy, was still for munici­pal purposes dependent upon its parent city. (Strab.iv. p. 184.) At a later period, the new division ofthe provinces again transferred to Gaul the towns ofNicaea and Cemenelium, together with the wholedistrict of the Maritime Alps, westward of theTropaea Augnsti. Hence, we find Nicaea describedby Amrniamu (xv. 11. § 15) as belonging to Gaul;and during the decline of the Empire, after it hadbecome an episcopal see, the names of its bishops arefound among the Gaulish prelates. It does not ap­pear to have ever been a town of much importanceUnder the Roman Empire; and waa apparentlyeclipsed by the city of Cemenelium (CVmie;), inits immediate neighbourhood. But it had a poodpi>rt, which must always have secured it some shareof prosperity, and after the fall of Cemenelium, itrose to be the most important city in this part of Gaul,and became the capital of an independent districtcalled the Contmfa (fi Nizztt (County of Nice). Thiseventually fell into the hands of the House of Savoy,and now forms part of the dominions of the king ofSardinia. Nice itself is a flourishing place, withabout 30,000 inhabitants, but has no remains ofantiquity. The ancient city probably occupied theheight, now the site of the castle, and the immediateneighbourhood of the port, which though small,is secure. Nice is situated at the mouth of theriver Faglume, a considerable mountain torrent,eridentlv the stream called I\uxo by Plinv andMela. (Plin. /. c.; Mel. ii. 4. § 9.) About 2 miles E. of Nice is a deep bay or inletbetween two rocky promontories, forming a spaciousnatural, harbour now known as the (inIf o/ Villa-Jranca, from a town of that name, which hashowever existed only since the 13th century. Thisis probably the Poims Olivui.a of the MaritimeItinerary (p. 504). The Anao Portos of thesame Itinerary is probably a small cove, forming awell-sheltered harbour for small vessels on the E.side of the headland, called Copo di S. Ospizio,which forms the eastern boundary of the (itilf ofViUaframca, A similar cove a few miles further E.just below the modern village of F.za. is probablythe Avisio PoKTUI of the same authority; but thedistances given between these [joints are greatlyoverstated. [K. H. B.J 2. (Ntraio: F.th. Nwcaiews)* a fortress cf theLocri Epicnemidii, situated upon the sea, and ckatto the pass of Thermopylae. It is described byAeschines as one of the places which eomniaiwleathe pass. (De Fats. Leo. p. 45. cd. Steph.) It tothe first Locrian town after Alpenos, the latter beaw.at the very entrance of the pass. The surrender atNicaea by Phalaecus to Philip, in b. C. 346. m^tthe Macedonian king master of Thermopylae, andbrought the Sacred War to an end. (l>»d. xri,59.) Philip kept possession of it fur some time, batsubsequently gave it to the Thessahans alone witaMagnesia. (Dem. Phil ii. p. 153, ed. Keiske; A*dkc. Ctetiph. p. 73, ed. Steph.) But in B.C. 540 »tairain find Nicaea in the possessi'si of Pt3i|(Dem. in Phil. Ep. p. 153.) According to M-namsi(ap. Phot. p. 234, a., cd. Bekker ; c. 41; ed. OrefliNicaea was destroyed by the Ph/H'tans, and lti iavhabitants founded the Bithynian Nicaea. But erstif this is true, the town must have been rebuilt seasafterwards, since we find it in the hands of the Atolians during the Koinan wars in Giw«. (Po*7x. 42, xvii. 1 ; Liv. xxviii. 5. xxxii. 32.) Setae-qnently the town is only mentioned by Strabo (is.p. 426). Leake identifies Nicaea with the castlePundonitza, where there are Hellenic remains,{Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 5. seq.) 3. In Illyria. [Castra. Vol. L p. 562. a.] 4. In Thrace. [NlCAB.] NICAMA (Nf«OMo), a place on the SW. coastIndia, called a metropolis by Ptolemy ( v.i. 1. § 11It was in the district of the !ia:i. within the ta%ritoiy of kins? Pandion. It was very probablythe site of the present Cot fopa torn. [V. KICA'SIA (Nifcauta), a small island near Nazal(Steph. B. v.) NICEPHO'KICM (Nuncio*. Strab. xri.747; Ptol. v. 18. §6; Steph. B. r.), a aaaajconsiderable importance in Mesopotamia, on thenEuphrates. According to Isidorus (Afaus. fari. ed. Miiller) and Pliny (v. 24. s. 21, vi.26. s.3it owed its foundation to Alexander the Great: ICOrding, however, to Appian, to S-I.-ucus P. wbis much more likely (5yrino. c. 57). It if Itioncil by Dion Cavdus (xl. 13) and by Tad(Ami, vi. 40), but simply as one of many tofounded by the Macedonians. Strabo call* Itown of the Mygdonians in Mesopotamia (iH.747). Nothing is known of its intermediate Ualbut Justinian erected a fortress here (PtocafAedif. ii. 7); and the emperor Leo, who mmadded several new works to it, is said to!changed its name to I.C'Titupdis. (Cf. !U 1< 7 1 .">: :.':■! < r.\. I • ■ ■ .1 -l.- :ni ». 405.) [V. NICEPIIO'RIUS. an affluent of the Peris,*washed the walis of I i^nino. erta (Tac. A nn. xv,now the Jiitiis-ch.li. whi- h rises at Hash A"on the S. of Jtbel NimHtd, and W. of LiJo* 1(Chesney. /■>/«./. F.nphrat, vol. i. p. IS. RiErdhtnde, vol. x. p. 88.) Kiepert's map id«Kit with the Jfztdchanc Su. [ K. B. J. NICEK (the Neckar), a tributary of the Kkhaving its sources not far from those of t it** Danand discharging itself into the Klune in t!:p mbourhood of Aftmheim. Its course forms a ves M-micir. ].-. :i- it I.: -' '.]>■■'■- i'i :i v .--| .. i-vrr. aftenvards in a north-western direction. The?]is not mentioned until a late period of the RnaiEmpire. In a, d. 319, the emperor VaK-ntirmto make great efforts in turning some i*rt d