OCR Output 264 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. when they should be free from all their mis­fortunes; for that by this means they shouldenjoy, instead of them, peace and a happysettlement; with which blessings God re­wards such men as are religious and righ­teous. He also gave orders, that when thetemple should be built, they should put theark therein, with the holy vessels; and heassured them, that they ought to have had atemple long ago, if their fathers had not beennegligent of God's commands; who had givenit in charge, that when they had got the pos­session of this land, they should build him atemple. Thus did David discourse to thegovernors, and to his son. David was now in years, and his body bylength of time was become cold and be­numbed; insomuch that he could get noheat by covering himself with many clothes.And when the physicians came together,they agreed that a beautiful virgin,* chosenout of the whole country, should sleep bythe king's side; and that this damsel wouldcommunicate heat to him, and be a remedyagainst his numbness. Now there was foundin the city one woman of superior beauty;her name was Abishag, who sleeping withthe king, did communicate warmth to him.But of this woman we shall speak morepresently. '••'-*c£?J Now the fourth son of David was a beau­tiful young man, and tall; born to him offHaggith, his wife. He was named Adonijah,and was in his disposition like to Absalom,and exalted himself, as hoping to be king,and told his friends, that he ought to takethe government upon him. He also preparedmany chariots and horses, and fifty men torun before him.J When his father saw this,he did not reprove him, nor restrain him fromhis purpose, nor did he go so far as to askwherefore he did so. Now Adonijah had forhis assistants Joab, the captain of the army, and Abiathar the high-priest. And the onlypersons that opposed him were Zadok thehigh-priest, and the prophet Nathan, and Be-naiah, who was captain of the guards, andShimei, David's friend, with all the othermost mighty men. Now Adonijah had pre­pared a supper out of the city, near the foun­tain that was in the king's paradise, and hadinvited all his brethren, except Solomon; andhad taken with him Joab, the captain of thearmy, and Abiathar, and the rulers of thetribe of Judah: but had not invited to thisfeast, Zadok the high priest, Nathan the pro­phet, nor Benaiah, the captain of the guards,nor any of those of the contrary party. Thismatter was told by Nathan to Bathsheba,Solomon's mother; that Adonijah was king,and that David knew nothing of it; and headvised her to save herself, and her sonSolomon, and to go by herself to David, andsay to him, that he had indeed sworn thatSolomon should reign after him; but that, inthe mean time Adonijah had already takenthe kingdom. He said, that he, the prophethimself, would come after her, and, when shehad spoken thus to the king, would confirmwhat she had said. Accordingly Bathshebaagreed with Nathan, and went in to the king,and worshipped him; and when she had de­sired leave to speak with him, she told himall things in the manner that Nathan hadsuggested to her; and related what a supperAdonijah had made, and who they werewhom he had invited, as his intimate friends.She also said, that all the people had theireyes upon him, to know whom he wouldchoose for their king. She desired him alsoto consider, how, after his departure, Ado­nijah, if he were king, would slay her andher son Solomon. Now as Bathsheba was speaking, thekeepers of the king's chambers tol^ him,that Nathan desired to see him. And ygheii * It is the observation of Galen, in his fifth book Of thePowers of Simple Medicines, that nothing so effectuallyprocures heat and health as the application of any thingyoung to the stomach: the advice of David's physicianstherefore was not amiss; but it had been sinful advice,and such as he could not have followed, had not thisyoung woman, whom he took to bed with him, been hisconcubinary wife. In those days such wives were al­lowable: and that she served him in this capacity, is verymanifest from the account we have of her in Scripture,for whereas it is said, that the king knew her not, this cer- tainly implies, that he might have had carnal knowl«dgeof her without sin or scandal; whereas it is said, that**lay in his bosom, this phrase every where in Scriptsdenotes what was the sole privilege of a wife, concubi,e>Gen. xvi. 5. Deut. xiii. 6. Nor can we imagine v&JAdonijah's desiring her in marriage had been so hein^sa crime in Solomon's account, had she not been the kir'g swife, and he, by this means, had designed to revive^ ^pretensions to the crown. Pool's Annotations. B. t 2 Sam. iii. 4. J About an. 1058