OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 473 allies; and both have attained their respective ends, chap.of military power and domestic tranquillity.' Whatever might be consumed for the present wants, p0mP andor reserved for the future use, of the state, the iirst ^ empf.and most sacred demand was for the pomp and plea- *»"•sure of the emperor; and his discretion only coulddefine the measure of his private expense. Theprinces of Constantinople were far removed from thesimplicity of nature; yet, with the revolving seasons,they were led by taste or fashion to withdraw to apurer air, from the smoke and tumult of the capital.They enjoyed, or affected to enjoy, the rustic festivalof the vintage: their leisure was amused by the exer­cise of the chase and the calmer occupation of fish­ing, and in the summer heats they were shaded fromthe sun, and refreshed by the cooling breezes fromthe sea. The coasts and islands of Asia and Europewere covered with their magnificent villas: but in­stead of the modest art which secretly strives to hideitself and to decorate the scenery of nature, the mar­ble structure of their gardens served only to exposethe riches of the lord, and the labours of the archi­tect. The successive casualties of inheritance andforfeiture had rendered the sovereign proprietor ofmany stately houses in the city and suburbs, of whichtwelve were appropriated to the ministers of state;but the great palace*, the centre of the Imperial re- The palace ° „r . . ,, ofComtan- sidence, was fixed during eleven centuries to the same tinopie.position, between the hippodrome, the cathedral ofSt. Sophia, and the gardens, which descended by manya terrace to the shores of the Propontis. The pri­mitive edifice of the first Constantine was a copy orrival of ancient Rome; the gradual improvements ofhis successors aspired to emulate the wonders of the * For a copious and minute description of the Imperial palace, see the Con-stantinop. Christiana (1. ii. c 4. p. 113—123.) of Ducange, the Tillemont of themiddle ages.