OCR Output yK\ TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. CHAP. XLVU. • The Opposition to the Decree. VIRGINIUS arrived at Rome by break of day, wherelie was eagerly expected by the people, already assem­bled in the forum. Virginias, clad in mourning, led hisdaughter into the forum, in a tattered gown, accompa­nied by several matrons, and many friends. As he pas­sed along, he solicited the favour of all with an air ofdignity, that seemed to demand their assistance, ratherthan to implore it. He told ilium, " That upon no oc­casion, had he been backward in exposing himself todanger, when the safety of their wives and childrenrequired it; nor could any man in Rome, recount agreater number of great and gallant actions than him­self. But what did the noblest exertions signify tosave the city, if our tyrants exercise upon our childrenat home, all the violence that can be dreaded in a citytaken by assault ?". He went round the assembly ha­ranguing them to this purpose; and Icilius spoke to thepeople in much the same strain. But the silent tears ofthe women who accompanied them, spoke with morefeeling, than any words could express. In spite of allwhich, Appius, who had steeled his heart, now ratherdistracted with an extravagant madness, than overcomewith a spfter passion, mounted his tribunal. The plain­tiff then remonstrating, " That sentence ought to have"passed in his favopr the day before, had it not been"out of complaisance to the people;" before he couldproceed, or Vfrginius make any answer, Appius inter­fered. The preamble, w.ith which he opened his decree,may be justly enough taken down by ancient authors;but, as I can find none that appears even probable con­sidering the unaccountable nature of the sentence itself,I shall content myself with the bare words of the decree,since so much is certain. "He adjudged her to be a slave." The injustice ofthis sentence, surprised and.confounded all present.—Forsome time there was an universal silence. But when M-.w.ent to seige Virginia, surrounded by a crowd