OCR Output 194 LINGONES. LIPARA. (i. 31), on. account of the vituperative and injuriouslanguage with which the worship was conducted.This temple contained a painting of Heracles byParrhasius; and Lindus appears to have possessedseveral other paintings by the same artist. (Atheu.xii. p. 543, xv. p. 687.) Lindus also was the nativeplace of Cl.ubulus, one of the Seven Sages of Greece;and Atlicnaeus (viii. p. 3G0) has preserved a prettypoem ascribed to Cleubulus, and which the Lindianboys used to sing as they went round collectingmoney for the return of the swallows in spring. The site of Lindus, as described by Strabo. " onthe side of a hill, looking towards the south andAlexandria," cannot be mistaken ; and the modernneat little town of Lindtw is exactly the sp 't oc­cupied by the ancient Dorian city. The place amiits many ancient remains have often been visited anddescribed, and most recently by Ross in his Iteisttiaufden Giiih. lutein, vols. iii. and iv., from whichit appears that ancient remains arc more and moredestroyed. There are many tombs cut in the rocks,some of which have had beautiful architecturalornaments; the remains of a theatre at the foot ofthe hill; and on the acropolis are seen the ruins uftwo Greek temples, which, to judge from inscrip­tions, belonged to the Liudian Athena and Zeus Po-lieus. The number of inscriptions found at Lindusis very considerable. (Comp. Ross, I. c. vol. iii. pp.72, &c, vol iv. pp. 68. &c.; Hamilton, Raearchts,vol. ii. pp. 55, &c.; Ji/iein. Museum, for 1845, pp.161, &c.) [L. S.] LTKGOXKS (\iyyovii). The form Aoyyvvts inPtolemy (ii. 19. § 9) may probably be a copyist'serror. In Polybius (ii. 17, ed. Bekker), A177t.nr isa correction of AXyvvts, which appears to be theMSS. reading, and was doubtless intended to be At-yurts. In the old text of Strabo (p. 186) it is saidthat the Arar (.Sat/ne) separates the Sequani fromthe Aedui and Lincasii (Acytcatn'ot); but it is agreeuthat we ought to read Lingones, for Strabo namesthe people Lingones in two other passages (pp. 193,808). The Lingones occupied the country about thesources of the Marne and Stinr, and extended east­ward to the Vosegus ( Yunji .1) (13. G. iv. 10). Caes;irdoes not state expressly whether they belonged toCcltica or to Belgica, but we may infer from what hesays that he considered them as included in Celtics fGai.ua Ti-.ansalpisa, Vol. I. p. 962]. Strabop. 19.1) says: "Above n beyond the Helvetii andSequani, tlie Aedui and Lingones dwell to the west;and beyond the Mediomatrici dwell the Leuci andpart of the Lingones." But the Leuci, whose capitalwas Tullum (J'uul), are between the Mediomatriciand the Lingones, and there is some error in thispasiage of Strabo. The chief town of the Lingoneswas Andomatunum, afterwards named Lingones, andin the old French, I^angone or Lantjomne, and nowLangrtt, near the source of the Marne,. Dibio (/>i-jon) was also in the territory of the Lingones, whichcorresponded to the diocese of Langres, before thediocese of Dijon was taken from it. Ptolemy (ii 8) and Pliny (iv. 17) place the Lin­gones in Belgica, which was true of the tiros whenthey wrote. The Lingones were one of the Celtic nations,which, according to Roman tradition, sent a de­tachment to settle in North Italy. [See the nextarticle.] Lucau (i. 397) represents the Lingones aswarlike, or fond of 6ghting, for which there is noevidence in Caesar at least:— "Castraque quae Vosegi curvam super ardoa rupeaPugnaces pictis cohibebant Lingones arruie." After Caesar had defeated the Helvetii in the gnatbattlo near Bibracte, the survivors fled into tbtcountry uf the Lingones; "to whom Caesar avalletters and a message to inform them that they mustnot supply the Helvetii with corn, or help the:u iaany way; and that if they did, he would treat tbemlike the Helvetii." (Ii. 0. i. 26.) It is plain fanCaesar's narrative that this insolent order was obeyed.When Caesar was at Vesontio (Ztesnnciw) on Lismarch against Ariovistus, the Sequani, Leuci, aadLingones supplied him with corn (B, G. i. 40).During tho winter which followed the campa'.ra <*B. c. 53, Caesar placed two legions in the coui.txy ifthe Lingones, not to keep them in obedience, for theynever rose in arms against him, but because it was agood position (B. G. vi. 44). It is stated in Tacitus (Hist. i. 78) that Otbegave the "civitas Romans" to all the Lingones: batthis passage is not free from difficulty. Galea l.s>ilost the fidelity of the Treviri, Lingones. arid someot her Gallic states, by harsh measures or by deprivingthem of part of their lands; and the Linguoe* andothers supported the jiarty of \'itellins in Gallia byoffering soldiers, horses, arms and money (Tacit. L53, 59). It seems that Otho made the Lingooes apresent of the " civitas" in order to effect a divers**)in his favour; but it remains to be explained, ifTacitus's text is right, why he omitted the Tmiriand others. Pliny calls the Lingones " Foederali."Tliis nation, which during the whole Gallic war wa*tranquil, even in tilt* year of Vercingetorix's greatstruggle (B. G. vii. 63), liecamc very restleaa underthe Kmpire, as we see from Tacitus (/list. iv. 67*.[Gallia Tbansau-lsa, Vol. I. p. 969.] [G. L.]LINGONES (Aty/axei, Pol.), a tribe of Cisalpu*Gauls, without doubt a colony or offset of the atorrpowerful Transalpine tribe of Uie same name, win.according to Livy, migrated into Italy together witjthe Boii, and settled with them in the plains be­tween the Apennines and the Padua. We leanfrom Polybius, that they dwelt between the Boii andthe St'nones, apparently occupying the country ilui:Hononia and as far eastward as the river Utis ( M<m-tone), which was the northern limit of the Secooes.(Liv. v. 35; Pol. ii. 17.) They seem to have beenin later times so closely associated with the B*u uto be commonly considered as one nation; bc-Lce vrdo not meet with any separate mention of theirname in history, nor are they noticed by the geo­graphers, [e! h. B.JLINTOMAGUS. [Littomaoi'sJLINL'S (Aixoj). a place on the coast of Mysta.on the Propontis, between Priapus and Parhun; itis noticed only by Strabo (xiii. p. 588), as the spotwhere the best snails («ox*'ai) were found. [L. N]LrPARA(iAiwdfw: iii. AiTOfatei, Li]oren>u:l.ipari), the largest and most important ot lite gri«jf>of the Aeolian islands, between the roast of Sriiiand Italy. It had a town of the same name, andwas the only one i-f the whole group which wasinhabited, or at least that had any cotuideratl*population. Hence the other islands ware aJ«»<»de{icndent on it, and were swnetiuici ral.rvi tiancient times, as they habitually are at the jrarsiday, tlie Liparaeau islands (at Atwapaim rs}wea,Strab. vi. p. 275). Strabo correctly tells us that uwas the largest of the seven, and lite nearrat u» li.-coast of Sicily except Tbermrsaa or Ultra (1 as­