OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ,65 manded by senators, and the præfecture of Egypt was the onlyimportant trust committed to a Roman knight. ■; . Within six days after Augustus had been compelled to accept so Division of , the province* very liberal a grant, he resolved to gratify the pride of the senate between the:by an easy sacrifice. He represented to them, that they had en- ^senate3."larged his powers, even beyond that degree which might berequired by the melancholy condition of the times. They had notpermitted him to refuse the laborious command of the armies andthe frontiers; but he must insist on being allowed to restore themore peaceful and secure provinces, to the mild administration of.the civil magistrate. In the division of the provinces, Augustusprovided for his own power, and for the dignity of the republic.The proconsuls' of the senate, particularly those of Asia, Greece,and Africa, enjoyed a more honourable character than the lieute­nants of the emperor, who commanded in Gaul or Syria. Theformer were attended by lictors, the latter by soldiers. A law waspassed, that wherever the emperor was present, his extraordinarycommission should supersede the ordinary jurisdiction of the governor,a 'custom was introduced, that the new conquests belonged to theImperial portion, and it was soon discovered, that the authority ofthe Prince, the favourite epithet of Augustus, was the fame in everypart of the empire. In return for this imaginary concession, Augustus obtained an The former preserve! hismilitary com- Important privilege, which rendered him master of Rome and pr^erves hls Italy. By a dangerous exception to the ancient maxims, he was ™anrjsa"ndauthorized to preserve his military command, supported by a Rome itself,numerous body of guards, even in time of peace, and in the heartof the capital. His command, indeed, was confined to those citi--zens who were engaged in the service, by the military oath; butsuch was the propensity of the Romans to servitude, that the oathwas voluntarily taken by the magistrates, the senators, and theVoLvI. K . equestrian