OCR Output 562 [book xv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. distress obliged them also out of necessity toeat many things that did not use to be eaten.Nor was the king himself free from any dis­tress any more than other men; as being de­prived of that tribute he used to have fromthe fruits of the grounds; and having alreadyexpended what money he had in his liberalityto those whose cities he had built. Nor hadhe any people that were worthy of his assist­ance since this miserable state of things hadprocured him the hatred of his subjects: forit is a constant rule that misfortunes are stilllaid to the account of those that govern. In these circumstances he considered withhimself how to procure some seasonable help.But this was a hard thing to be done; whiletheir neighbours had no food to sell them,and their money also was gone; had it beenpossible to purchase a little food at a great {H'ice. However he resolved not to leave offlis endeavours to assist his people. So hecut off the rich furniture that was in hispalace, both of silver and gold; insomuchthat he did not spare the finest vessels hehad; or those that were made with the mostelaborate skill of the artificers; but sent themoney to *Petronius, who had been madeprefect of Egypt by Caesar. And as not afew had already fled to him under their ne­cessities; and as he was particularly a friendto Herod, and desirous to have his subjectspreserved, he gave leave to them in the firstplace to export corn, and assisted them everyway, both in purchasing, and exporting thesame: so that he was the principal, if not theonly, person who afforded them what helpthey had. And Herod taking care the peopleshould understand, that this help came fromhimself, did hereby not only remove the illopinion of those that formerly hated him;but gave them the greatest possible demon­stration of his good will. For in the firstplace, as for those who were able to providetheir own food, he distributed to them theirportion of corn in the exactest manner: butfor those that were not able either by reasonof their old age, or any other infirmity, to pro-well as then, the relief they had was from Egypt also:then from Joseph, the governor of Egypt under Pharaohking of Egypt, and now from Petronius, the prefect ofEgypt, under Augustus the Roman emperor. See almostthe like case XX. 2 and 5. It also worth our observa­tion here, that these two years were a sabbatic year, anda yeai of Jubilee; for which Providence, during the vide food for themselves, he made this pro­vision for them; that the bakers should maketheir bread ready for them. He also tookcare that they might not be hurt by the dan­gers of winter, since they were in great wantof clothing, by reason of the utter destructionof their sheep and goats, till they had no woolto make use of, nor any thing else to coverthemselves withal. And when he had pro­cured these things for his own subjects, hewent farther, in order to provide necessariesfor their neighbours; and gave seed to theSyrians; which thing turned greatly to hisown advantage also: this charitable assistancebeing afforded most seasonably to their fruit­ful soil: so that every one had now a plenti­ful provision of food. Upon the whole, whenthe harvest of the land was approaching hesent no fewer than fifty thousand men, whomhe had sustained, into the country. By whichmeans he both repaired the afflicted condi­tion of his own kingdom, with great genero­sity and diligence; and lightened the afflic­tions of his neighbours, who were under thesame calamities. For there was nobody whohad been in want that was left destitute of asuitable assistance by him. Nay farther,there were neither any people, cities, norprivate men, who were to make provision formultitudes, and on that account were in wantof support, and had recourse to him, but re­ceived what they stood in need of. Inso­much, that it appeared upon a computation,that the number of cori of wheat of ten Atticmedimni a piece, that were given to foreign­ers, amounted to ten thousand; and thenumber that were given in his own kingdomwas about eighty thousand. Now it happened,that this care and seasonable benefaction hadsuch influence on the Jews, and was so ex­tolled among other nations, as to wipe off thatold hatred which his violation of some oftheir customs, during his reign, had pro­cured him among all the nation, and that thisliberality of his assistance in this their greatnecessity was a full satisfaction for all that hehad done of that nature, as it also procured theocracy, used to provide a triple crop beforehand: butbecame now, when the Jews had forfeited that blessing,the greatest years of famine to them ever since the daysof Ahab. 1 Kings xvii. xviii. * This Petronius, the prefect of Egypt, under AugustusCaesar, is mentioned by Strabo, XVII. page 778, and byDio Cassius, LIV. page 524, as Spanheimhere informs us.