OCR Output 988 SIC1L1BBAof strictly maritime route around the southern ex­tremity of the island from Agrigentum to Syracuse;but with the exception of Pinlis, which is probablyPhintias (Alicato), none of the stations can beidentified. Lastly, a line of road was in use whichcrossed the island from Agrigentum direct to Pa-nonnus {Itin. Ant. p. 96), but none of its stationsare known, and we are therefore unable to determineeven its general course. The other routes given inthe Itinerary of Antoninus are only unimportantvariations of the preceding ones. The Tabula givesonly the one general line amund the island (crossing,however, from Calvisiana on the S. coast direct to•Syracuse),and the cross line already mentioned fromThermae to Catana. All discussion of distancesalong the above routes must be rejected as useless,until the routes themselves can be more accuratelydetermined, which is extremely difficult in so hillyand broken a country as the greater part of theinterior of Sicily. The similarity of names, whichin Italy is so often a suro guide where all other in­dications are wanting, is of far less assistance inSicily, where the long period of Arabic dominion hasthrown the nomenclature of the island into greatconfusion. [E. H. Ii.] COW OK SICILIA. SICILIBBA or SICILIBRA (in the Geogr. Rav.Siciliba, iii. 5), a place in Africa Propria {/tin. Ant.pp. 25, 45), variously identified with BaxUbak andIlaottch Alouina. [T. H. D.] SI'CINOS (lOttvos: Eth. 'XiKivlrns: Si kino), a.small island in the Aegaean sea, one of the Sporades,lung between Pholegandros and Ios, and containinga town of the same name. (Seylax, p. 19; Strab.x. p. 484; Ptol. iii. 15. § 31.) It is .said to havebeen originally called Oenoo from its cultivation ofthe vine, hut to have been named Sicinos after a sonof Tfaoaa and Oenoe*. (Steph. li. s. p.; A poll. BbotLi. 623; Scbol. ad toe.; Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Etym.H. p. 712. 49.) Wine is still the chief productionof the island. It was probably colonised by Ionians.Like most of the other Grecian islands, it submittedto Xerxes (Herod, viii. 4). but it afterwards formedpart of the Athenian maritime empire. There aresome remains of the ancient city situated upon a loftyand rugged mountain, on whose summit stands thechurch of S. Marina. There is also still extant anancient temple of the Pythian Apollo, now convertedinto the church Epukopi (?) 'EttutkoW;). It standsin a depression between the main range of moun­tains, and the summit lying more to the left, uponwhich the ruins of the ancient city stand. Welearn from an inscription found there by Ross thatit was the temple of the Pythian Apollo. (Ross,ReUen cmf dm Crieck. Imeln, vol. it. p. 149, Kq.;Fiedler. Ante, vol. ii. p. 151, tea.) SICOK. [Skcok.] Sl'COKIS (Sfapir, Dion Cass. xlL 20), a tri­butary river of the Iheras in Hispania Tarracooenaia.It rose in the Pyrenees in the territory of the Cer- SICU retani, and separated theand Lacetani. It flowed ]to Vibius Sequester (p. 5name of that town. A lilthe Cinga, and then flonOctogesa. (Caes. B. C. LLucan. iv. 13, seq.) Ausing impetnously (" torreiNow the Stgre. SI'CULl (2uc«XoO, is 1writers to an ancient raceof the elements in the priras well as Sicily. But thiare very confused and iSiculi mentioned: 1. as arof Latium; 2, in the esSicily; 4, on the shores ofconvenient to examine the 1. The Siculi are repithe earliest inhabitants ofcalled Latium (i. 9), as wof Etruria; they were anof whose wanderings andThey held the whole cour.from it by the people wdescending from the mc[Aborigines], who madjunction with the Pelasgitraded struggle, wrested Ianother (Id. i. 9, 16). Jcj-prcssly mentioned by 1occupied by the Siculi, athe city was still calledStacAufir, Ficulea, Anteiras Faleiii and Feaeennitwards called Etruria (hSiculi being thus finally fsions in this part of ltamigrated in a body to thepeninsula, from whence tland established themselvto which they gave theborne. [Sicilia.] (Monly author who has leftthe conquest and expukare mentioned by Pliny tsuccessively occupied I-and this seems to havereceived tradition, 2. We find the Siculi fsouthernmost portion of t:they appear in close conn*Morgetes,and I tali, all ofthere are good reasons foirace. [Oenotria.] It iStrabo, that the Siculi, tby Homer (Odyss. xx. 3the inhabitants of theIthaca: and the traditioncriana, reported by Polybiipeople in whose territory tthey first found themselv*xii. 5, 6 ) Numerous tiDionysius (i. 22, 73)nicus, and others, concurthcir eponymous leader 5connection with Italus Iconfirmed by the linguistbe admitted to exist bet'(Niebnhr, vol. i. p. 4?enough to be in it&ell