OCR Output 114 THE DECLINE AND FALL If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Belisarius, he enjoyed the base sa­tisfaction only eight months, the last period of a reign of thirty-eight, and a life ofeighty-three years. It would be difficult to trace the character of a prince whois not the most conspicuous object of his own times: but the confessions of an ene­my may be received as the safest evidence of his virtues. The resemblance ofJustinian to the bust of Domitian, is maliciously urged;(2) with the acknowledg­ment, however, of a well proportioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and a pleasingcountenance. The emperor was easy of access, patient of hearing, courteous andaffable in discourse, and a master of the angry passions, which rage with suchdestructive violence in the breast of a despot. Procopius praises his temper toreproach him with calm and deliberate cruelty; but in the conspiracies which at­tacked his authority and person, a more candid judge will approve the justice oradmire the clemency of Justinian. He excelled in the private virtues of chastityand temperance: but the impartial love of beauty would have been less mischie-vious, than his conjugal tenderness for Theodora, and his abstemious diet was re­gulated, not by the prudence of a philosopher, but the superstition of a monk.His repasts were short and frugal: on solemn fasts, he contented himself withwater and vegetables; and such was his strength as well as fervour, that he fre­quently passed two days and as many nights without tasting any food. The mea­sure of his sleep was not less rigorous: after the repose of a single hour, the bodywas awakened by the soul, and, to the astonishment of his chamberlains, Justinianwalked or studied till the morning light. Such restless application prolonged histime for the acquisition of knowledge, (3) and the despatch of business: and hemight seriously deserve the reproach of confounding, by minute and preposterousdiligence, the general order of his administration. The emperor professed him­self a musician and architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyer and theologian: andif he failed in the enterprise of reconciling the Christian sects, the review of theRoman jurisprudence is a noble monument of his spirit and industry. In the go­vernment of the empire, he was less wise or less successful: the age was unfortu­nate; the people was oppressed and discontented: Theodora abused her power; asuccession of bad ministers disgraced his judgment; and Justinian was neither be­loved in his life, nor regretted at his death. The love of fame was deeply im­planted in his breast, but he condescended to the poor ambition of titles, honours,and cotemporary praise; and while he laboured to fix the admiration, he forfeitedthe esteem and affection of the Romans. The design of the African and Italianwars was boldly conceived and executed: and his penetration discovered the talentsof Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace. But the name of the emperoris eclipsed by the names of his victorious generals; and Belisarius still lives to up­braid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign. The partial favour of mankindapplauds the genius of a conqueror, who leads and directs his subjects in the exer­cise of arms. The characters of Philip II. and of Justinian are distinguished bythe cold ambition which delights in war, and declines the dangers of the field. Yeta colossal statue of bronze represented the emperor on horseback, preparing tomarch against the Persians in the habit and armour of Achilles. In the great squarebefore the church of St. Sophia, this monument was raised on a brass column anda stone pedestal of seven steps; and the pillar of Theodosius, which weighed se­ven thousand four hundred pounds of silver, was removed from the same place bythe avarice and vanity of Justinian. Future princes were more just or indulgentto Ma memory; the elder Andronicus, in the beginning of the fourteenth century, Tbii moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and manuscripts of Greece; re­peated before the end of the fifteenth century by Crinitus. Pontanus, and Volateranus; attacked by Alciat,for the honour of the law; and defended by Baromus (A. D. 491. No. 2. &c.,) for the honour of the church.Yet Tzetzes himself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose his sight, and that he recoveredhis fame and fortunes. (1) The statue in the villa Borgbese at Rome, in a sitting posture, with an open hand; which is vulgarlygiven to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity to Augustus in the act of propitiating Nemesis (win-kleraan, Hist, de l'Art. torn. iii. p. S46.) Ex-nocturno visu etiam stipem, quotannis, die certo, emendicabat apupolo, cavam manum asses porrigentibus prebeus (Sueton. in August, c. 91. with an excellent note ofCatanbon.) (2) Theruow of Domitian is stigmatized, quaintly enough, by the pen of Tacitus (in Vic. Agricol. and has been likewise noticed by the younger Pliny (Panegyr. c. 48.,) and Suetonius (in Domitian. c. 18.)and Casaubon ad locum.) Procopius (Anecdot. c. 8.) foolishly believes that only one bust of Domitian hadreached the sixth century. (3> The studies and science of Justinian are attested by the confession (Anecdot. c. 8.13.) still more than bythe praises (Gothic lib. iii. e. 31. de Ecliric. lib. i. Proem, c. 7.) of Procopius. Consult the copious index otAlemanous, and read the life of Justinian by Ludewig, (p. I3i—142.)