OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Supposed e- The apology of Tertullian contains two very ancient, very sin-dictsofTi- r fa/ . . . _ . . berius and gular, but at the fame time very suspicious instances of imperial toninm. clemency; the edicts published by Tiberius, and by Marcus An­toninus, and designed not only to protect the innocence of theChristians, but even to proclaim those stupendous miracles whichhad attested the truth of their doctrine. The first of these examplesis attended with some difficulties which might perplex a scepticalmind We are required to believe, that Pontius Pilate informedthe emperor of the unjust sentence of death which he had pro­nounced against an innocent, and, as it appeared, a divine, person;and that without acquiring the merit, he exposed himself to thedanger, of martyrdom; that Tiberius, who avowed his contempt forall religion, immediately conceived the design of placing the JewishMessiah among the gods of Rome; that his servile senate venturedro disobey the commands of their master; that Tiberius, instead ofresenting their refusal, contented himself with protecting the Chris­tians, from the severity of the laws, many years before such laws,were enacted, or before the church had assumed any distinct nameor existence; and lastly, that the memory of this extraordinarytransaction was preserved in the most public and authentic records*which escaped the knowledge of the historians of Greece and Rome,and were only visible to the eyes of an African Christian, who com­posed his apology one hundred and sixty years after the death ofTiberius. The edict of Marcus Antoninus is supposed to have beenthe effect of his. devotion and gratitude, for the miraculous deliver­ance which he had obtained in the Marcomannic war. The distressof the legions, the seasonable tempest of rain and hail, of thunderand of lightning, and the dismay and defeat of the barharians, havebeen celebrated by the eloquence of several pagan writers. If there-were any Christians in that army, it was natural that they shouldascribe some merit to the fervent prayers* which in the moment ofdanger they had offered up for their own and the public safety. But