OCR Output 284 ROMAN EMPIRE. reflect to our mind the minds of sages and heroes. Yetthe book of nature and of man was open to his view;and some fancy has been indulged in the political andphilosophical observations which are ascribed to theArabian traveller? He compares the nations and thereligions of the earth; discovers the weakness of thePersian and Roman monarchies; beholds, with pityand indignation, the degeneracy of the times; and re­solves to unite, under one God and one king, the invin­cible spirit and primitive virtues of the Arabs. Ourmore accurate inquiry will suggest, that instead of vi­siting the courts, the camps, the temples, of the east,the two journies of Mahomet into Syria were confinedto the fairs of Bostra and Damascus; that he was onlythirteen years of age when he accompanied the caravanof his uncle, and that his duty compelled him to returnas soon as he had disposed of the merchandize of Ca-dijah. In these hasty and superficial excursions, theeye of genius might discern some objects invisible tohis grosser companions; some seeds of knowledgemight be cast upon a fruitful soil: but his ignorance ofthe Syriac language must have checked his curiosity;and I cannot perceive in the life or writings of Maho­met, that his prospect was far extended beyond the li­mits of the Arabian world. From every region of thatsolitary world, the pilgrims of Mecca were annuallyassembled, by the calls of devotion and commerce: inthe free concourse of multitudes, a simple citizen, inhis native tongue, might study the political state andcharacter of the tribes, the theory and practice of theJews and Christians. Some useful strangers might betempted or forced, to implore the rights of hospitality;and the enemies of Mahomet have named the Jew, the b The count de Boulainvilliers (Vie de Mahomed, p. 202—228.) leads his Ara­bian pupil, like the Telemachus of Fenelou, or the Cyrus of Ramsay. His journeyto the court of Persia is probably a fiction; nor can 1 trace the origin of his ex­clamation, " Les Grccs sont pourtant dee hommes." The two Syrian journeys areexpressed by almort all the Arabian writers, both Mahometans and Christians.(Gagnier, ad Abulfed. p. 10.)