OCR Output 372 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. were three in number; and the eunuch whowas over the armed men; and seven friendsof Zedekiah, and his scribe, and sixty otherrulers; all of whom, together with the vesselswhich they had pillaged, he carried to theking of Babylon, to Riblah, a city of Syria.So the king commanded the heads of thehigh-priest, and of the rulers, to be cut offthere. But he himself led all the captives,and Zedekiah to Babylon. He also led Jo-sedek, the high-priest, away bound. He wasthe son of Seraiah, the high-priest, whom theking of Babylon had slain in Riblah, a city ofSyria, as we have just now related. And now, because we have enumerated thesuccession of the kings, and who they were,and how long they reigned; I think it neces­sary to set down the names of those who suc­ceeded one another in the high-priesthood,under the kings. The first high-priest thenat the temple, which Solomon built, wasZadok. After whom his son Achimas re­ceived that dignity. After Achimas wasAzarias. His son was Joram, and Joram'sson was Isus. After him was Axioramus.His son was Phideas, and Phideas's son wasSudeas, and Sudeas's son was Juelus, andJuelus's son was Jotham, and Jotham's sonwas Urias, and Urias's son was Nereias, andNereias's son was Odeas, and his son wasSallumus, and Sallurnus's son was Elicias,and his son was Azarias,* and his son wasSareas, and his son was Josedek, who wascarried captive to Babylon. All these re­ceived the high-priesthood, by succession,the sons from their fathers. When the king was come to Babylon, hekept Zedekiah in prison until he died; andthen buried him magnificently. He also de­dicated the vessels he had pillaged out of the temple of Jerusalem to his gods; andplanted the people in the country of Babylon;but freed the high-priest from his bonds. CHAP. IX. OF THE APPOINTMENT OF GEDALIAH, AS GOVERNOR OF THEJEWS LEFT IN JUDEA J HIS ASSASSINATION BV ISHMAEL;THE REMOVAL OF THE PEOPLE INTO EGYPT J AND THEIRSUBSEQUENT CAPTIVITV. NOW the general of the army, Nebuzara-dan, when he carried the people of theJews into captivity, left the poor, and thosethat had deserted, in the country; and ap­pointed for their governor one Gedaliah, theson of Ahikam, a person of a noble family,and of a gentle and righteous disposition. Hecommanded that they should cultivate theground, and pay an appointed tribute to theking. He took Jeremiah the prophet out ofprison, and would have persuaded him to goalong with him to Babylon; for that-he hadbeen enjoined by the king to supply him withwhatever he wanted; and if he did not liketo do so, he desired him to inform him wherehe resolved to dwell; that he might signifythe same to the king. But the prophet hadno inclination to follow him, nor to dwell anywhere else: but expressed a wish to live inthe ruins of his country, and in the miserableremains of it. When the general understoodwhat his purpose was, he enjoined Gedaliah,whom he had left behind, to take all possiblecare of him, and to supply him with whateverhe wanted. So when he had given him richpresents, he dismissed him.f AccordinglyJeremiah abode in a city of that countrywhich was called Mispah; and desired ofNebuzaradan that he would set at libertyhis disciple Baruch,J the son of Neriah;|J * I have here inserted, this high-priest Azarias, thoughhe be omitted in all Josephus's copies, out of the Jewishchronicle, Seder Olam: of how little authority soever Igenerally esteem such later Rabbinical historians; be­cause we know from Josephus himself, that the numberof the high-priests belonging to this interval was eighteen.Antiq. XX. 10. whereas his copies have here but seven­teen. And note, that so many of these names are spelleddifferently from those that occur in our Bible. 1 Chron.vi. 15. Ezra vii.l—5. 1 Esdras vii. 1,2. that I have here,contrary to my usual method, set them all down fromthe Greek spelling in Josephus. t Jeremiah xl. 5. I Of this character of Baruch, the son of Neriah, andthe genuineness of his book that stands now in our Apo- crypha, and that it is really a canonical book, and anappendix to Jeremiah, see Authentic Records, part I.page 1—11. II Baruch, the son of Neriah, and grandson of Maase-iah, was of an illustrious birth, and of the tribe of Judah.Seraiah, his brother, had a considerable employment inthe court of king Zedekiah, but himself kept close to theperson of Jeremiah, and was his most faithful disciple,though his adherence to his master drew upon him severalpersecutions, and a great deal of bad treatment. Afterthe destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, Baruchand his master were permitted to stay in the land of Ju-dea; but when the remains of the people which were leftbehind, after having slain their governor Gedaliah, werefor retiring into Egypt, they compelled Jeremiah and his