OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 377 proposed to our consideration) the speeches of the am­bassadors delivered yesterday; supposing, for a mo­ment, the speakers not to have required what was use­ful to themselves, but to have recommended what theythought most conducive to our advantage. The Ro­mans, the Rhodians, and Attalus, request an allianceand friendship with us; and they demand to be assistedin the war which they are now engaged in againstPhilip. Philip reminds us of our league with him,and of the obligation of our oath: he requires onlythat we declare ourselves on his side; and says hewill be satisfied if we do not intermeddle in the opera­tions of the war. Who is there so short-sighted as notto perceive the reason why those, who are not yet ourallies, require more than he who is? This arises notfrom modesty in Philip, nor from the want of it in theRomans. The Achaean harbors show what it is, which,while it bestows confidence to requisitions on one side,precludes it on the other. We see nothing belongingto Philip but his ambassador: the Roman fleet lies atCenchrea, exhibiting to our view the spoils of the ci­ties of Eubosa. We behold the consul and his legions,at the distance of a small tract of sea, overrunningPhocis and Locris. You were surprised at Philip'sambassador, Cleomedon, showing such diffidence yes­terday in his application to us to take arms on the sideof the king against the Romans. But if we, in pursu­ance of the same treaty and oath, the obligation ofwhich he inculcated on us, were to ask of him thatPhilip should protect us, both from Nabis and his La­cedaemonians, and also from the Romans, he would beutterly unable to find, not only a force for the purpose,but even an answer to return. As much so, in truth,as was Philip himself, who endeavored, by promises ofwaging war against Nabis, to draw away our youthinto Euboea: but finding that we would neither decreesuch assistance to him, nor choose to be embroiled withRome, forgot that alliance on which he now lays suchstress, and left us to the Lacedaemonians to be spoiledand plundered. Besides, to me the arguments of Cleo­