OCR Output 756 ROMA. .' ROMA. of the agger. But besides these, Strabo {lb. p. 234)mentions another lying between them, tho PortaViminalis; which isalso recorded by F est as (p.376)an<l by Frontinua (Aq. 19). It must have Iainbehind the SE. angle of the baths of Diocletian, wherean ancient road leads to the rampart, which, if pro­longed, would run to the PoBTA Clal'sa of thewalls of Anrclian, just under the southern side of theCastra Praetoria. It is clear from the words ofStrabo, in the passage just cited (uiri ficVy oe to?^uifiart Tp'tTT} <Vt1 ttv\t) 6/j.a>vufxos Tec Qvifiii'a\l(p\6<ptf\ that there were only three gates in theagger, though some topographers have contrived torind room for two or three inure in this short space,the whole length of the agger being but 6 or 7 stadia(Strab. /. e.\ Dionys. ix. 68), or about | of a mile.Its breadth was 50 feet, and below it lay a ditch100 feet broad and 30 feet deep. Remains of thisimmense work arc still visible near the baths ofDiocletian and in the grounds of the Villa Xegroni.especially at the spot where the statue of Roma nowstands. Survey under Vespasian and Circumference of theCity. — In the preceding account of the gates in theServian wall we have enumerated twenty, includingthe Porta Triumphal!*. Some topographers haveadopted a still greater number. When we considerthat there were only nine or ten main raids leadingout of ancient Koine, and that seven of these issuedfrom the three gates Capena, Es.juilina, and Collinaalone, it follows that five or six gates would havesufficed for the main entrances, and that the re­mainder must have been unimportant ones, destinedonly to afford the means of convenient communicationwith the surrounding country. Of those enumeratedonly the Collina. Viminalis, Esquilina, Caelimontana,Capena, Trigeminy, Carmentalis, and Batumenaseem to have been of any great importance. Never­theless it appears from a passage in Pliny (iii. 9)that in his time there must have been a greatnumber of smaller ones, the origin and use of whichwe Khali endeavour to account for presently. As thepassage, though unfortunately somewhat obscure, isof considerable importance in Roman topography, weshall here quote it at length: "Urbcm tres portashabentem Romulus reUquit, ant (ut plurimas tra-dentibus credamus) quatuur. Moenia ejus collegersainbitu Imperat"ribus Censoribusqne Vespasianisanno conditae becexxvn. pass. xiiiM.cc Com-plexa monies sept em, ipsa dividitur in regionesquatnordecim, compita Lariom cclxv. Ejusdemspatium, mensura currente a milltario in capitaRomani fori statnto, ad singulas portas, quae sunthodie numero triginta eeptem, ita ut duodecimKernel numerentur, praetereanturque rx veteribusseptem, quae esse deaierunt, efficit passuum perdirectum XXXM.DCCLXV. Ad extrcma vero tec-tonim cum castris Praetoriia ab eodem mUliario pervicoa omnium viarum mensura colligit panto ampltnswptuaginta roillia passuum." Now there seems tobe no reason for doubting the correctness of thisaccount. Pliny could have had no reason for exag­geration, against which, in the account of the Bo­rn u lean gates, he carefully guards himself. Again,lie seems to have taken the substance of it from theofficial report of a regular survey made in his owntime and in the reign of Vespasian. The only roomfor suspicion therefore seems to be that his text mayhave been corrupted, and that instead of thirty-sevenas the number of the gates we should insert some 1smaller one. Gut an examination of his figures does I not tend to show that they are iocormt. Tiasurvey seems to have been made with a Tiew to uathree following objects: 1. To ascertain the rt«lcircumference of the city, including all the Milan*which had spread beyond the walls of SerriwL ftis well known that moenia signifies the boiiitsgitfa city as well as the walls (M mom moenia a»|est," Flor. i. 4, &c), and therefore this phrase,has sometimes caused embarrassment, need a*tain us. Now the result of this first nreasgave 13.200pasms, or 13J Roman miles—sto which there is nothing to object, a* it wryagrees with the circumference of the solAurelian walk. 2. The second object M*been to ascertain the actual measure of thestreet within the old Servian walls. Thethis proceeding we do not immediatelyIt may have been adopted out of meremore probably it may have been connectesquestions respecting certain privileges, ortaxes, which varied according as a boose wiated within or without the walls. Now tiethe measurements of all these street*, whstogether as if they had formed a straight lawdirectum"), amounted to 30,765 /wjww.or.10miles and about j. Such we take to himeaning of ''per directum;" tboogh schold it to mean that the distance from theto these gates was measured in a straightthe crow flies, without taking into thethe windings of the streets. But in thatwould surely have been put earlier in the—'' mensura currente per directum adportas." This, however, would hare been «Tconsequence except for the dUtinetx*Becker (Jfaadfc p. ISii, note 279), whothe measurement proceeds on twociples, namely per directum, or as thefrom the milliarium to the Servian gates, ami,'contrary, by all the windings of the streetssame spot to the furthest buildings outside theSuch a method, as he observes, wealdtrue ground of comparison, and thereforehardly think that it was adopted, or that *Pliny's meaning. Becker was led to this abecause he thought that14 per vice* otnrcomstands contrasted with "per directum;*contrast does not seem necessarily tortae here Pliny seems to mean all the ratiout of the thirty-seven gates; and by M adtectorum per vicos omnium viarumn mmerely that the measure was furtherend of the streets which lined thethese roads. Such appears to us to be the rmthis certainly somewhat obscure passage. PIcount may be checked, roughly indeed, hot sa sufficient approach to accuracy to guarscorrectness of his text. If a circurnfrreaemiles yielded 70 miles of street, and if da30 miles of street within the Servian walls,'circumference of the tatter wuokl be to theas 3 to 7, and would measure rather5$ miles. Now this agrees pretty well withwhich we have of the uize of the Servian tit**following the account of Thm-ydidea (iL 1without allowing for that part of the'Athens described as unguarded, with tlcircuit of which walls I>ionrsit» (iv. 13,f>$) compares those of ancient Rome, settlatter down at 43 stadia, or 5f miles,great plan of Koine they are- given at