OCR Output RHAGAE. 7D1 RHAMNUS. V. Cam. rr. 14. IS). Like all mountaineers,*v eseriabed pmt love of freedom, and fought■nt the Rrcnana with rage and despair, as wen from Flora (it. 12), who states that thebrum women, who also took part in the war,la? oarrof spent their arrows, threw their ownatrea in the face* of the Romans. Still, however,r< m obhred to yield, and in B.C. 15 they wereair subdued, and their country was made ama amine*. During the later period of thevsn their territory was almost entirely depopu-* tot it aomewhat recovered at the time whenr utroroths. under Theodoric, took possession ofi nsatry, and placed its administration into thekk ef a Dux (Euipp. YU. S. Seterini, 29;afd. Per. ir. 4). After the death of Theodoric,i Bonaoru spread over Rhaetia and Noricum, andI nror Liens became the boundary between theeaam in Vindelicii, and the Boioarii in Rhaetia.rm ViL Carol. M 11.) The more importantast :b* various tribes mentioned in Rhaetia, such iif IKTOSTH. VlBERI. CALUCONKS, VeMNOICES, niro, Ikarci. Brixextes, Gexauni, Tki-■mv and Eloaxei, are discussed in separateaba Tridentnrn was the most important amongi (rw towns of the country; the others aresrs ahnoat exclusively through the Itineraries, ■ having been made through Rhaetia byaVnaaa, the one leading from Augusta Vindc-ra M Cuonm, and the other from the same ■ Si Verona; Paolus DUconus, however, mon­ks sear towns of the interior which wero notaaaf oa these high-roads, such as the town of•.wakh was destroyed in the eighth century bytal of a mountain, and the site of which is nowBarf by the town of Her an. [L. S.]HaGAE (TNryol, Arrian, Andb. iii. .30; Strab.p. 414, 524; 'Patycia, Isidor. Char. § 7; v 'Pd-ya,ft. B. *. v.; 'Pd-youa. Ptol. vi. 5. § 4; Rhagcs,a l 14: Etk. 'Paryerdr), a great town of Mediapat, the capital of the province of Rhagianu,- o first known to ns in history as tho place toB the Jewish exiles were sent. (/'•', i. 14,13 ix. 2.) It was sit tutted in the eastern partk» uajatjy towards Parthia, one day's journeyI tat PyW Caspiae (Arrian, Anab. iii. 20) andpjrV fsaarrh from Ecbatana (Hamatlon). Ther of taw place is stated by Strabo to have beenad from the frequent earthquakes to which itVan aabject, bat this is contrary to all proba-I (Smb. xi. p. 514); he adds, also, that,■as&y other places in the neighbourhood, it had suit (or rather rebuilt) by the Greeks (p.la hater times it appears to have been re- vt Srlencos Nicator, who called it Europus.t. L c.) Still later it appears to have been^-airt by one of the house of Arsaces, whot rt ia coaaeqnence Arsacia. (Strab. I. a.;L E. a. o ) In modem times the ancient namearsraed; sod the rains of Rkey, which have »- ■:*#-! and described by many travellers, no-•f resent the site of the ancient Rhngae. Pater. TVojretV, vol. i. p. 358.) Pliny men-a town of Parthia, which he calls Apameiaanr («L 14. § 17). Some geographers have :>~i that this it the same as Rhagae; but thear- ia rather that it is not. [V.]lAOtA'SA- [Bhaoae.]1AMAE, a town in the interior of Thrace. rrwroa. p. 5«8.) [T. H. D.] VMASITAE. I. CPo^'toi, Strab.xri. p. 782), supposed by Mr. Forstcr to be identical with thoRhabanitae of Ptolemy ('PaSaviTai, vi. 7. § 24),whom that geographer places under Mount Climax.He says "their common position, north of MountClimax, concurs with the resemblance of the twonames to argue the identity" (Geoff, of Arabia,vol. i. p. 68, note); but it is by no means clearthat the Rhamanitae lay near Mount Climax. Allthat Strabo says of them is, that Marsiaba, thelimit of the expedition of Aelius Gallus, the siegeof which he was forced to raise for want of water,lay in the country of the Rhamanitae; but nothingin geography is more difficult to determine than thesituation of that town. [Maksyaba.] 2. A people of the same name is mentioned byPliny, as existing on the Persian Gulf, identicalwith the Anariti of Ptolemy and the Epimara- NUM.. [G. W.] RHAMIDAVA. [Dacia, p. 744, b.]RHAMNUS. 1. ('Pauvovt, -ow-toj: Elh. 'Paji-vouaios, fern. 'Pafwovcia, 'Pa/xfowWj), a demus ofAttica, belonging to the tribe Acantis (Stcph. B.,Harpocr., Suid., *. v.), which derived its name froma thick prickly shrub, which still grows upon thesite. ('Pafwous, contr. of bapy6tis from bdixvot.)The town stood upon the eastern coast of Attica, atthe distance of 60 stadia from Marathon, and upontho road leading from the latter town to Oropus.(Paus. i. 33. § 2.) It is described by Scylax (p.21) as a fortified place; and it appears from adecree in Demosthenes (pro Cor. p. 238, Reiske)to have been regarded as one of the chief fortressesin Attica. It was still in existence in the time ofPliny('-Rhamnus pagus, locus Marathon,''iv.7.s.11).Rhamnus was the birthplace of the orator Antiphn[Diet of Bioffr. t. r.] ; but it was chiefly celebratedin antiquity on account of its worship of Nemesis,who was hence called by the Latin poets Rhammaiarirr/o and Rhamnusia ilea. (Catull. Ixvi. 71; Claud.B. Get. 631: Or. Met. iii. 406, Trial. V. 8. 9; Slat.Silt. iii. 5. § 5.) The temple of the goddess wasat a short distance from the town. (Paus. /. cjcomp. Strab. ix. p. 399.) It contained a celebratedstatue of Nemesis, which, according to Pausanias,was the work of Pheidias, and was made by him outof a block of Parian marble, which the Persians hadbrought with them for the construction of a trophy.The statue was of colossal sine, 10 cubits in height(flesych. t. r.; Zenob. Prov v. 82). and on its basiswere several figures in relief. Other writers saythat tho statue was tho work of Agoracritus ofParos, a disciple of Pheidias. (Strab. ix. p. 396;Plin. xxxvi. 5. s. 4. § 17, Sillig.) It was howevera common opinion that Pheidias was the real authorof the statue, but that he gave up the honour of thowork to his favourite disciple. (Suid, t. v.; Zenob.Lc.; Tietz. Chil. vii. 960.) Rhamnus stood in asmall plain, 3 miles in length, which, like that ofMarathon, was shut out from the rest of Attica bysurrounding mountains. The town itself was situ­ated upon a rocky peninsula, surrounded by the seafor two-thirds of its circumference, and connectedby a narrow ridge with the mountains, which closelyapproach it on tho land side. It is now culledOvrid'Kattro. (JO€pi6-Kaarpo, a corruption of'E6ptu6v-KaffTpov, Jetcs-CastU, a name frequentlyapplied in Greece to the ruins of Hellenic fortresses.)It was about half a mile in circuit, and its remainsare considerable. The principal gate was situatedupon the narrow ridge already mentioned, and isstill preserved; and adjoining it is the southern wall,