OCR Output NUMIDIA NOVA. 451 NURSIA antra, may of whom were bribed by Jugurtba,ml ccnunissicoers, who divided the kingdom inkt!i a muwr that Jo;nrtha obtained tbe mosttariike and most productive portion of it New.:ia.Taa broke out between the rival princes, whenJiinirthi besieged Adherbal in Cirta, and, aftermioaiinr list to surrender, put him to a cruel'>i.fi. n'ar was declared against Jugurtba byI-*, which, after being carried on with varying■-.,rtsi,was finished by his capture and death ini c 106. Tbe kingdom was given to Hiempsal11. vbe vu succeeded by his son Juba I., who inlit crril nrt allied himself to the Pompeuros. Onall 0 Jjio 1., H. c. 46. Numidia was madei Lean province by Julius Caesar, who put it intV bands of Sallust, the historian. A. D. 39, Cali-rsJa rbaared the government of the province, givingiwarently, co-ordinate powers to the proconsul andlb kraloi [See the article Africa, Vol. I. p. 70,»in» the arrangements are fully de-cribed.] The•tuna Aug. pr.pr.Numidiae"(Orelli. Inter. 3672)^•jJ at Cilia, the capital of the old Numidian'■o, void), aince the time of Augustus, had ac­tual lie - jus colonise." Besides Cirta, therevra nan other " coloniae," of which the followingw-t art known:—Sicca ; Tiiaml'CAIiis; Aphro-Kutii; Caitva; Tabraca; Tibioa; Tttri-Miarca; Tdsi'kkica; Theveste; Medacra;Ajuddu i Smrrru; Kdsicade; Hippo Re-•Wti MtLani; Lambaesa; Thelepte Lares.b i-u Begia was a * liberum oppidum." Theof towns must have been considerable, as,to the "Notitia," Numidia had in theIn r-atary 123 episcopal sees. (Marquardt. inIWa Handback der Sum. Alt. pt iii. p. 229.)^t tie Roman occupation of the country, thatr*-' * according to their usual plan, drove severalr»£i through it Numerous remains of Roman•a* aid stations, which were of two kinds, those'-a termed the roads, and others whichI"**"! the estates at some distance from them,<p t'Ct remaining (London Gtog. Journ. vol.**- P- H); and such was their excellent ar-■**"*efil that, at first, one legion,(* 111a Aug.,"■ eieA afterwards a second was added, " Macri-*» kbeiitra " (Tac. Hint, i. 11), served to keep theAHw provinces secure from the incursions of the*-*^b tribes. The long peace which Africa en-iPtaal the flourishing corn trade it carried on,a»i ncierted the wild Numidian tribes into peace-* feasts, and had opened a great field for Chris-taenia. In the fourth century, Numidia was■ rieses seat of the Donatist schism. Tho ra-af the Circumcellions contributed to thatwhich was finally consummated by theJustinian sent forth his troops,a j* of putting down the Arians, more thannew provinces to the empire The work; the Vandals were exterminated,sill the temporary rule of Constantinople,-■aura population of Africa reappeared. The"^>*1 victory of the cross, as it appeared tortscaUm, prepared the way for the victory of'•vvtt a century afterwards. [E. B. J.]»7 HIDIA XOVA. [As-rica, Vol. 1. p. 71, a.]S'HIOICUS SINUS. [Numidia.]JVMISTRO {Kmnlarpvy, Ptol.; No/Jo-rotoni-li.. Xsmestramis), a town of Lucania, ap-Qear the frontiers of Apulia, near which a*ao fought between Hannibal and Marcellus,tc no, without any decisive result (Liv. xxvii. 2; Plut Marc. 24). From the narrative of Livy,which is copied by Plutarch, it is clear that Nu­mistro was situated in the northern part of Lucania,as Marcellus marched out of Samnium thither, andHannibal after the battle drew oft' his forces, andwithdrew towards Apulia, but was overtaken byMarcellus near Venusia. Pliny also enumerates theNumestrani (evidently the same people) among themunicipal towns of Lucania, and places them in theneighbourhood of the Volcentani. Hence it is cer­tainly a mistake on the part of Ptolemy that hotransfers Numistro to the interior of Brutlium, un­less there were two towns of the name, which isscarcely probable. Cluverius, however, follows Pto­lemy, and identifies Numistro with Niaistro in Ca­labria, hut this is certainly erroneous (Plin. iii. 11.s. 15; Ptol. iii. 1. § 74; Cluver Hal. p. 1319). Thesite conjecturslly assigned to it by Romanelli, nearthe modem Mwo, about 20 miles N\V. from Potenza.is plausible enough, and agrees well with Pliny'astatement that it was united for municipal purposeswith Volceii (Buccino), which is about 12 miles dis­tant from Mwo (Romanelli, vol. i. p. 434). Someancient remains and inscriptions have been found onthe spot. [E. H. B.] NURA. [Baleares, p. 374, a.] NU'RSIA (NooofTi'o: Eth. Nursinus: Norcia),a city of the Sabines, situated in the upper part ofthe valley of the Nar, at the foot of the lofty groupof the Apennines, now known as the Monti ddlnSibilla. The coldness of its climate, resulting fromits position in the midst of high mountains, is cele­brated by Virgil and Silins Italicus. (Virg. Aen.vii. 716; StL Ital. viii. 417.) The first mention ofit in history is in the Second Punic War (B.C. 205).when it was one of the cities which came forwardwith volunteers for the armaments of Scipio. (Liv.xxviii. 45.) As on this occasion the only threecities of the Sabines mentioned by name are Nnrsin,Reate, and Amiternum, it is probable that Nnraiawas, as well as the other two, one of the most con­siderable places among the Sabines. It was amunicipal town under the Roman government (Orel!.Inner. 3966; Plin. iii. 12. s. 17; Ptol. iii. 1 § 55),and we learn that its inhabitants were punisben byOctavian for their zealous adherence to the republicanparty, and the support they afforded to L. Antoniusin the Pcrusian War. (Suet Avg. 12; Dion Cass,xlviii. 13.) It was the birthplace of Vespasia Polio,the mother of the emperor Vespasian; and themonuments of her family existed in the time ofSuetonius at a place called Vespasiae, 6 miles fromNursia on tho road to Spoletium. (Suet. Pets. I.)The u ager Nursinus" is mentioned more than oncein the Liber Coloniarum (pp. 227, 257), but it doesnot appear that it ever received a regular colony.We leam from Columella and Pliny that it wascelebrated for its turnips, which are also alluded toby Martial (Colnm. x. 421; Plin. xviii. 13. s. 34;Martial, xiii. 20.) From its secluded position Nursiais not mentioned in the Itineraries, but there is nodoubt that it continued to exist throughout tbeperiod of the Roman Empire. It became an episcopalsee at an early period, and is celebrated in ecclesias­tical history as tho birthplace of St. Benedict, thofounder of the first great monastic order. It is said that remains of the ancient walls stillexist at Norcia, in the same massive polygonal styloas those near Reate and Amiternum (Petit-Radel,Ann. d. Inst Arch. 1829, p. 51), but they have neverbeen described in detail. [E. H. B.] G O 4