OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 5 able. It may be fairly presumed, that the most sublimeand virtuous of human spirits was infused into the off­spring of Mary and the Holy Ghost;' that his abasementwas the result of his voluntary choice; and that the objectof his mission was to purify, not his owq, but the sinsof the world. On his return to his native skies, he re­ceived the immense reward of his obedience; the ever­lasting kingdom of the Messiah, which had been dark­ly foretold by the prophets, under the carnal imagessf peace, of conquest, and of dominion. Omnipotencecould enlarge the human faculties of Christ to the extentof his celestial office. In the language of antiquity, thetitle of God has not been severely confined to the firstparent, and his incomparable minister, his only-begottenSon, might claim, without presumption, the religious,though secondary, worship of a subject world.ir. A pure II- The seeds of the faith, which had slowlyGod toUie arisen in the rocky and ungrateful soil of Judea,were transplanted, in full maturity, to the hap­pier climes of the Gentiles; and the strangers of Romeor Asia, who never beheld the manhood, were the morereadily disposed to embrace the divinity of Christ. ThePolytheistand the philosopher, the Greek and the bar­barian, were alike accustomed to conceive a long suc­cession, an infinite chain of angels or demons, or deities,or aeons, or emanations, issuing from the throne of light.Nor could it seem strange or incredible, that the firstof these aeons, the Logos, or Word of God, of the samesubstance with the Father, should descend upon earthto deliver the human race from vice and error, and toconduct them in the paths of life and immortality. Butthe prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent pravi-ty of matter infected the primitive churches of the east.Many among the Gentile proselytes refused to believe •'On8 TOU Tttmfff -^uya, n -nu Aa-ift uv—was one of ihe fifteen heresies imputedto Origen, and denied by his apologist. (Photius, Bibliothec. Cod. 117. p. 296.)Some of the rabbies attribute ono and the same soul to the persons of Adam, David,and the Messiah.