OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 361 his army and navy in the Macedonian war, then tosend a body of forces to protect his territories; or ifthat were not agreeable, to allow him to go home forthat purpose, with his fleet and troops.' The followinganswer was ordered to be given to the ambassadors:that 'the senate retained a due sense of Attalus' friend­ship, in aiding the Roman commanders with his fleetand other forces. That they would neither send suc­cors to Attalus against Antiochus, the ally and friendof the Roman people, nor would they detain the troopswhich he had sent to their assistance, to his inconve­nience. That it was ever a constant rule with theRoman people to use the aid of others, so far only aswas agreeable to the will of those who gave it; andeven to leave those who were so inclined at full libertyto determine when that assistance should commence,and when it should cease. That they would send am­bassadors to Antiochus, to represent to him that Atta­lus, with his fleet and army, were at the present em­ployed by the Roman people against Philip, theircommon enemy; and that they would request Antio­chus to leave the dominions of Attalus unmolested,and to refrain from all hostilities; for that it was muchto be wished that kings, who were allies and friendsto the Roman people, should maintain friendship be­tween themselves also.' 9. When the consul Titus Quintius had finished thelevies, in making which he chose principally such ashad served in Spain or Africa, that is, soldiers of ap­proved courage, and when hastening to set forward tohis province, he was delayed by reports of prodigies,and the expiations of them necessary to be performed.There bad been struck by lightning the public road atVeii, a temple of Jupiter at Lanuvium, a temple ofHercules at Ardea, with a wall and towers at Capua;also the edifice which is called Alba. At Arretium thesky appeared as on fire; at Velitrae the earth, to theextent of three acres, sunk down so as to form a vastchasm. From Suessa Aurunca an account was broughtof a lamb born with two heads; from Sinuessa, of a