OCR Output LOCRAS. LOCRI. 199 modern Lohr. (Ptol. ii. 11. §29.) Its name seemsto be of Celtic origin. (Comp. Steiner, Das Main-gebiet, p. 125.) [L. S ] LOCRAS. [Corsica, p. 691, a.] LOCRI EPICNEMl'OII, OPU'NTII. [Lc-CRis.] LOCRI fyZOLAE. [Locris.] LOCRI (AoKpoi), sometimes called, for distinc-ti.mss«ke, LOCKI EPIZEPHY'RH (SoKpol 'Ew.fc-<x>;>.o.,Thuc.vii. 1; Pind.0i.xi.15; Strab.; Steph.B.:Etk. Aojrpar, Locrensis: Ruins near Gerace), a city&n tije SE. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, not tarfrom its southern extremity, and one of the mostcelebrated of the Greek colonies in this part of Italy.It was a colony, as its name obviously implies, of theLocrians in Greece, but there is much discrepancyas to the tribe of that nation from which it derivedits origin. Strata affirms that it was founded bythe Locri Ozolae, under a leader named Euanthes,and censures Ephorus for ascribing it to the LocriOpontii; but this last opinion seems to have been theon* generally prevalent. Scymnus Chius mentionsb>th opinion*, but seems to incline to the latter; andit is adopted without question by Pausanias, as wellas by the poet* and later Latin authors, whence wemay probably infer that it was the tradition adoptedby the Locrians themselves. (Strab. vi. p. 259;Symn. Ch. 313—317; Paus. iii. 19. § 12; Virg.Aen. iii. 399.) Unfortunately Polybins, who had in­formed himself particularly as to the history and in­stitutions of the Locrians, does not give any state­ment upon this point. Bat we learn from him thatthe origin of the colony was ascribed by the tra-dition current among the Locrians themselves, andsanctioned by the authority of Aristotle, to a body offnritive slaves, who had carried off their mistresses,witli whom they had previously carried on an il­licit intercourse. (Pol. xii. 5, 6, 10—12.) TheMme story is alluded to by Diunysius Periegetes(365—367). Pausanias would i-cem to refer to awh'iily different tale where he says that the Laee-dwtnoniara sent a colony to the Epizephvrian Locri,st the same time with one to Crotonu. (Paus. iii. 3.§ 1.) These were, however, in both cases, probablyonly additional bands of colonists, as Lncedaemonwa* never regarded as the founder of cither city.The date of the foundation of Locri is equally un-nfliio. Strabo (t c.) places it a little after that ofCrotona and Syracuse, which he regarded as nearlyorattmporary, but he is probably mistaken in thisbw opinion. [Crotoxa.] Eusebius, on the con­trary, brings it down to so late a date as B. c. 673(or.according to Hieronymus, 683); but there seemsiral reason to beliove that this is much too late, and«e may venture to adopt Strabo's statement that itv»» founded soon after Crotona, if the latter beP«*ed about 710 B.C. (Euseb. Ann. p. 105;Clinton F. U. vol. i. p. 186. vol. ii. p. 410.) Thetraditions adopted by Aristotle and Polybius repre-wtri the first settlers as gaining possession of thesral from the native Oenotrians (whom they calledStuli), by a fraud not unlike those related in many•nriilar legends. (Pol. iii. 6.) The fact stated by-*rabo that they fiist established themselves on Cat*frvhyriuin (C*po di Brtuzano), and subsequently•tawed froln thence to the site which they ulli-"nateir occupied, about 15 miles further N., is sup-P*-*- by the evidence • f their distinctive appella-•*«. and may be depended on as accurate. (Strab.it) M in the case of most of the other Greek colonies» Italy, we have very scanty and imperfect in- formation concerning the early history of Locri. Thefirst event in its annals that has been transmitted tous, and one of those to which it owes its chief cele­brity, is the legislation of Zaleucus. This was saidto be the most ancient written code of laws that hadbeen given to any Greek state; and though the his­tory of Zaleucus himself was involved in great ob­scurity, and mixed up with much of fable [Zaleu­cus, Biogr. Dict.~\, there is certainly no doubt thatthe Locrians possessed a written code, which passednnder his name, and which continued down to a lateperiod to be in force in their city. Even in the daysof Pindar and of Demosthenes, Locri was regardedas a model of good government and order; and itsinhabitants were distinguished for their adherenceto established laws and their aversion to all inno­vation. (Pind. 01. x. 17: Schol. ad foe.; Strab. vi.p. 260; Demosth. adv. Timocrat. p. 743; Diod. xii.20,21.) The period of the legislation of Zaleucus cannotbe determined with certainty: but the date given byEusebius of 01. 30, or b. c. 660, may be receivedas approximately correct. (Euseb. Arm. p. 105;Clinton, vol i. p. 193.) Of its principles we know butlittle; and the quotations from his laws, even if wecould depend upon their authenticity, have no refer*ence to the political institutions of the state. Itappears, however, that the government of Locri wasan aristocracy, in which certain select families,called the Hundred Houses, enjoyed superior privi­leges: these were considered to be derived from theoriginal settlers, and in accordance with the legendconcerning their origin, were regarded as derivingtheir nobility from the female side. (Pol. xii. 5.) The next event in the history of Locri, of whichwe have any account, is the memorable battle of theSagras, in which it was said that a force of 10,000Locrians, with a small body of auxiliaries fromIthegiuin, totally defeated an army of 130,000 Cro-toniats. with vast slaughter. (Strab. vi. p. 261;Cie.de N.I), ii. 2; Justin, xx. 2, 3.) The extra­ordinary character of thiB victory, and the exag­gerated and fabulous accounts of it which appear tohave been circulated, rendered it proverbial amongthe Greeks (dAnfle'trreoa tuiv M Zdypa. Suid. s. v.)Vet wo have no means of assigning its correct placein history, its date being extremely uncertain, someaccounts placing it after the fall of Sybaris (it. c.510), while others would carry it back nearly 50years earlier. [Crotona.] The small number of troops which the Lticriansare represented as bringing into the field upon thisoccasion, as compared with those of Crotona, wouldseem to prove that the city was not at this time avery powerful one; at least it is clear that it was notto compare with the great republics of Sybaris andCrotona. But it seems to have been in a flourishingcondition; and it must in all probability be to thisperiod that we must refer the establishment of itscolonies of Hipponium and Medma, on the oppositeside of the Bruttian peninsula. (Scymn. Ch.. 3l)8;Strab. vi. p. 256.) Locri is mentioned by Herodotusin B. c. 493, when the Samian colonists, who wereon their way to Sicily, touched there (Herod, vi. 23);and it appears to have been in a state of great pro­sperity when its praises were sung by Pindar, inB. c. 484. (Pind. 01. x., xi.) The Locrians, fromtheir position, were naturally led to maintain a closeconnection with the Greek cities of Sicily, especiallywith Syracuse, their friendship with which wouldseem to have dated, according to some accounts, O 4