OCR Output B. II. 183 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. them, that—" if they would join them with a land and a" naval force at the same time, it would be impossible for" the Acarnanians to succour one another by sea; that" hence they might easily get all Acarnania into their power," from whence they might become masters of Zacynthus" and Cephallene, and a stop would then be made to the" Athenian cruizes on the coasts of Peloponnesus; nay, " that there was even a hope of reducing Naupactus." This scheme was pleasing to the Lacedaemonians, who or­dered Cnemus (yet their admiral) to sail thither with a fewships, having on board the heavy-armed ; and circulated or­ders to their confederates to fit out their ships, and repairwith all expedition to Leucas. The Corinthians were thosewho shewed most zeal for the Ambraciots, a colony of theirown; and the shipping of Corinth, Sicyon, and the adjacentplaces, was prepared with all possible expedition; but thatof Leucas, Anactorium, and Ambracia was already at Leu­cas, and waiting for the rest. Cnemus and the thousandheavy-armed performed their voyage undiscovered by Phor-mio, who commanded the Athenian fleet of twenty sail,stationed round Naupactus, and immediately landed his menfor the destined service. Besides the thousand Peloponne-sians he brought with him, he was now joined by the Am­braciots, Leucadians, Anactorians, of the Grecians; of the Barbarians, by a thousand Chaonians, not subject to aregal government, but commanded by Photius and Nicanor,men of those families which had a right to command by an­nual election. With the Chaonians came the Thesprotians,who also had no king. Sabylinthus, guardian of their kingTharyps, yet a minor, led the Melossians and Antitanians.The Paravaeans were headed by their own king Ordoeus, whohad also the command of a thousand Orestians, subjects ofAntiochus, which served with his troops by the permission ofAntiochus. Perdiccas sent also a thousand Macedonians,of which the Athenians were ignorant, but these were notyet come up.