OCR Output Il was often allowed by Augustus, ana &«» „y Zi.< , us, for the last time. With him the practice ceased, together. . . LXXV Rome, in the course ot tins year, lost two':ustrious citizens: the first was Asinkis Saloninus,.andson both to Marcus Agrippa and Asimus Polho, lf-brothcr to Drusus, and, besides, the intended:'lsband of the emperor's grind-daughter. The se- •ndrwas Ateius Capito, already mentioned; a man,or his abilities and his knowledge of the laws, of the st eminence in the state. From his birth he de-,"ed no advantage. His grand-father was a centurioni,der Sylla: his father rose to the rank of prator.uapito was, with rapid speed, advanced by Augustus 0 the consular dignity, and, by that promotion,iaced above his competitor, Antistius Labeo, who / , d grown into celebrity by his talents and his skill inji risprudence. It was the peculiar felicity of that-e to see flourishing together those two. illustriousvals, who, in peaceable times, were the ornamentstheir country. The fame of Labeo rose on the, , '.'est foundation; he was a strenuous asserter of civil : :,erty, and for that reason the favourite of the peo-, 'e. Capito knew his approaches to the great, and his flexibility became a favourite at the courtof Augustus. Labeo was not suffered to rise:iliive *he prsetorian rank; but that act of injus­tice raised his popularity: while, on the other hand,Capito obtained the consulship, and with it the pub-li , hatred. jXXVI. In this year also, the sixty-fourth from theh .tie of Philippi, Junia, niece to Cato, sister of Bru- ;, and the widow of Cassius, paid her debt to na-t e. Her will engrossed the public conversation.1 ssessed of immoderate riches, she left marks of herregard to almost all the eminent men at Rome, with­out mention of Tiberius. The omission gave no um- ' age to the emperor. He considered it as the exer-se of a civil right, and not only suffered her funeral I, megyric to be spoken from the rostrum, but allowede last ceremonies to be performed with the usual