OCR Output CffiRULEUM. 71 what we call Lomentum;1 it is made by washing or trituratingthe Coeruleum, and is somewhat lighter coloured: its price is tendenarii the pound; Cceruleum is eight. It is used for painting onchalk,3 but it will not bear quicklime. Another kind has beenlately introduced, which, from the name of the maker, is calledVestorianum; it is formed from the lighter part of the Egyptian,and costs eleven denarii the pound. It is applied to the same useas that from Puteoli, and likewise for windows; it is called Cyanon.We have lately begun to bring a species from India, which iseight denarii the pound; its principal use in painting is to markthe lines which separate the shadows from the lighter parts. Thereis a very inferior kind, which is called ground Lomentum, worthfive ases only. To try the purity of Cceruleum we throw it onburning coals, and observe whether it inflames; a counterfeit kindis made from a decoction of dried violets, adding the expressedjuice to Eretrian chalk. 58. MEDICINES FROM CffiRULEUM. Its medical virtue is to cleanse ulcers; it is also an ingredientin plaisters and caustics. Sil is triturated with great difficulty;its effect is to produce a slight irritation and astringency, by meansof which it fills up ulcers; but in order that it may produce theseeffects, it is necessary for it to be calcined in earthen vessels. I am aware that the prices which I have mentioned differ indifferent places, and that they vary almost every year, accordingto the state of commerce, and the circumstances of the merchants,or in consequence of the price being raised by the artifices of any-great monopolizer. I well recollect how, when Nero was Emperor,Demetrius was accused by all the druggists4 of Capua before theconsuls. It was, however, necessary that I should state what arethe ordinary prices at Rome, in order to establish a general rulerespecting them. and Aristotle expressly designates it " to ptraWov," in his treatise "DeMirab. Aus." cap. 59; we appear to have no means of ascertaining whatmetal was referred to in these cases. See the note of Beckmann on thispassage, p. 123. * Washed or purified; from Atuaiiai, see note (4) p. 44. 3 " Usus in creta;" or mixed with chalk, so as to make a body colour. 4 " A tota Seplasia." The French translator calls them "les parfumeursde Rome;" t. x. p. 667. See note in Valpy, p. 4406.