OCR Output 66 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. is in vain that thou, O queen, callest for thesewomen tor the nourishment of the child, whoare by no way of kin to it, but if thou wiltorder one of the Hebrew women to be brought,perhaps it may admit the breast of one of hisown nation. Now, since she seemed to speakwell, Thermuthis bid her procure such a one;so when she had such authority given her,she came back, and brought the mother, whowas known to nobody there; and now thechild gladly admitted the breast, and seemedto adhere closely to it; and so it was that atthe queen's desire the nursing of the childwas entirely intrusted to the mother. Hereupon it was that Thermuthis imposedthis name, Mouses, upon him, from what hadhappened when he was put into the river, forthe Egyptians call water by the name of Mo,and such as are saved out of it by the nameof Uses; so, by putting these two wordstogether, they imposed this name upon him;and he was, by the confession of all, accor­ding to God's prediction, as well for his great­ness of mind, as for his contempt of difficul­ties, the best of all the Hebrews. Abrahamwas his' ancestor of the seventh generation,for Moses was the son of Amram, who wasthe son of Caath: whose father Levi, was theson of Jacob, who was the son of Isaac, whowas the son of Abraham. Now Moses's un­derstanding became far superior to his age,and when he was taught, he discoveredgreater quickness of apprehension than wasusual in youth, and his action at that timepromised greater, when he should come tothe age of a man. God also gave him thattallness, when he was but three years* old,as was wonderful, and every one that sawhim was greatly surprised at the beauty ofhis countenance. Nay it happened frequently,that those that met him, as he was carriedalong the road, were obliged to turn againupon seeing the child; that they left whatthey were about, and stood still a great whileto look on him; for the beauty of the childwas so remarkable on many accounts, that itdetained the spectators, and made them staylonger to look upon him. Thermuthis, therefore, perceiving him tobe so remarkable a child, adopted him forher son, having no child of her own; andwhen one time she had carried Moses to her * An. 1609. father, she shewed him to him, and said, " shethought to make him her father's successor,if it should please God she should have nolegitimate child of her own; and said to him,I have brought up a child who is of a divineform and of a generous mind; and as I havereceived him from the bounty of the river, ina wonderful manner, I thought proper toadopt him for my son, and the heir of thykingdom." And when she had said this, sheput the infant into her father's hands; so hetook him, and pressed him to his breast; andon his daughter's account, in a pleasant way,put the diadem upon his head. But Mosesthrew it down to the ground, and in a puerilemood he wreathed it round, and trod upon itwith his feet, which seemed to bring alongwith it an evil presage concerning the king­dom of Egypt. But when the sacred scribesaw this, (he was the same person that fore­told that his nativity would bring the do­minion of that kingdom low,) he made aviolent attempt to kill him; and crying outin a frightful manner, he said, " This, O king!this child is he of whom God foretold, that ifwe kill him we shall be in no danger; hehimself affords an attestation to the predic­tion of the same thing, by his trampling uponthy government, and treading upon thy dia­dem. Take him therefore, out of the way,and deliver the Egyptians from the fear theyare in about him, and deprive the Hebrewsof the hope they have of being encouragedby him." But Thermuthis prevented him,and snatched the child away: and the kingwas not hasty to slay him, God himself, whoseprovidence protected Moses, inclining the.,king to spare him: he was therefore educa­ted with great care; so the Hebrews de­pended on him, and were of good hopes thatgreat things would be done by him. TheEgyptians, indeed, were suspicious of whatwould follow his education; yet because ifMoses had been slain, there was no one,either a kin or adopted, that had any oracleof his side, for pretending to the crown ofEgypt, and likely to be of greater advantageto them, they abstained from killing him. CHAP. X. OF THE WAR WHICH MOSES MADE WITH THE ETHIOPIANS, OSES, therefore, when he was born,and brought up in the foregoing man- M