OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [.CHAP. XXXIX Ipud and specious reproach of disloyalty, of ingratitude,and of insatiate avarice, which could be only excused bythe hard necessity of his situation. He reigned, not as;the monarch, but as the minister, of a ferocious people,whose spirit was unbroken by slavery, and impatient ofreal or imaginary insults. Their poverty was incurable;since the most liberal donatives were soon dissipated inwasteful luxury, as the most fertile estates became barrenin their hands; they despised, but they envied, the la­borious provincials; and when their subsistence hadfailed, the Ostrogoths embraced the familiar resources ofwar and rapine. It had been the wish of Theodoric (suchat least was his dejaration) to lead a peaceable, obscure,obedient life, on the confines of Scythia, till the Byzan­tine court, by splendid and fallacious promises, seducedhim to attack a confederate tribe of Goths, who had beenengaged in the party of Basilisqus. He marched fromhis station in Maesia, on the solemn assurance that be­fore he reached Adrianople, he should meet a plentifulconvoy of provisions, and a reinforcement of eight thou­sand horse, and thirty thousand foot, while the legionsof Asia were encamped at Heraclea to second his opera­tions. These measures were disappointed by mutualjealousy. As he advanced into Thrace, the son of Theo-demir found an inhospitable solitude, and his Gothicfollowers, with a heavy train of horses, of mules, andof waggons, were betrayed by their guides among therocks and precipices of mount Sondis, where he wasassaulted by the arms and invectives of Theodoric theson of Triarius. From a neighbouring height, his art­ful rival harangued the camp of the Walamirs, and brand­ed their leader with the opprobrious names of child, ofmadman, of perjured traitor, the enemy of his blood andnation. "Are you ignorant (exclaimed the son. ofTriarius) that it is the constant policy of the Romans to as it should seem, than the Wulamirs: but the son of Theodemii is charged with th«ruin of many Roman cities. (Malchns Excerpt. Leg. p. 95.)