OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 283 time of Mithradates. The citizens had not only to sendannual tribute to the court-camp of the barbarian king, butalso to make him a gift when he encamped before the townor even simply passed by, and in a similar way to buy offminor chieftains and in fact sometimes the whole horde withpresents; and it fared ill with them if the gift appeared toosmall. The treasury of the town was bankrupt and theyhad to pledge the votive offerings. Meanwhile the tribes werethronging without in front of the gates; the territory waslaid waste, the field-labourers were dragged away en masse,and, what was worst of all, the weaker of their barbarianneighbours, the Scythians, sought, in order to shelter them­selves from the pressure of the more savage Celts, to obtainpossession of the walled town, so that numerous citizenswere leaving it and the inhabitants now contemplated itsentire surrender. Such was the state in which Mithradates found matters, Mithradateswhen his Macedonian phalanx crossing the ridge of the master ofCaucasus descended into the valleys of the Kuban andthe B°SP°-Terek and his fleet at the same time appeared in the Crimean fan. lnS"waters. No wonder that everywhere, as had already beenthe case in Dioscurias, the Hellenes received the king of Pon-tiis with open arms and regarded the half-Hellene and hisCappadocians armed in Greek fashion as their deliverers.What Kome had here neglected, became apparent. Thedemands on the rulers of Pauticapaeum for tribute had justthen been raised to an exorbitant height; the town of Cher-sonesus found itself hard pressed by Scilurus king of theTauric Scythians and his fifty sons; the former were gladto surrender their hereditary lordship, and the latter theirlong-preserved freedom, in order to save their last possession,their Hellenism. It was not in vain. Mithradates' bravegenerals, Diophantus and Neoptolemus, and his disciplinedtroops easily got the better of the peoples of the steppe.Neoptolemus defeated them at the straits of Pauticapaeumpartly by water, partly in winter on the ice; Chersonesuswas delivered, the strongholds of the Taurians were broken,and the possession of the peninsula was secured by judiciouslyconstructed fortresses. Diophantus marched against theRoxolani (between the Dnieper and Don) who came forward tothe aid of the Taurians; 80,000 of them fled before his 6000phalangites, and the Pontic arms penetrated as far as theDnieper. Thus Mithradates acquired here a second king-