OCR Output 62 [A.U.C. 768. THE ANNALS less in agitation; their hopes of conquest, the love ofplunder, and the jarring counsels of their chiefs, dis­tracted every mind. The measure proposed by Armi-nius was, to let the Romans break up their camp, andsurround them again in the narrow denies, and in thebogs and marshes. Inguiomer, more fierce and vio­lent, and for that reason more acceptable to the ge­nius of barbarians, was for storming the camp: itwould be carried by a general assault: the number ofprisoners would be greater, and the booty in bettercondition. His advice prevailed. At the point of daythe attack began; at the first onbet the Germans level­led the fosse, threw in heaps of hurdles, and attempt­ed a scalade. The ramparts were thinly manned; thesoldiers, who showed themselves, put on the appear­ance of a panic. The barbarians climbed to the topof the works. In that moment the signal was givento the cohorts; clarions and trumpets sounded throughthe camp; the Romans in a body, and with one ge­neral shout, rushed on to the attack. They fell uponthe enemy in the rear; crying aloud, as they ad­vanced, "Here are no woods; no treacherous fens;" we are here on equal ground, and the gods will de-" cide between us." The barbarians had promisedthemselves an easy conquest. The' affair, they ima­gined, would be with a handful of men; but their sur­prise rose in proportion, when they heard the clangourof trumpets, and saw the field glittering with arms.Tho sudden terror magnified their danger. To beelated with success, and to droop in adversity, is thegenius of savage nations. A dreadful slaughter fol­lowed. The two chiefs betook themselves to flight;Arminius unhurt, and Inguiomer dangerously wound­ed. No quarter was given to the common men. Thepursuit continued as long as day-light and resentmentlasted. Night coming on, the legions returned to theircamp, covered with new wounds, and their provisionsno better than the day before; but health, and food,and vigour, all things were foundin victory.' LXIX. Meanwhile a report n spread round thecountry, that the Roman army was cut to pieces, andthe Germans, flushed with conquest, were pouring