OCR Output 288 ROMAN EMPIRE. the permission of evil under the reign of infinite powerand infinite goodness. Mahomet The God of nature has written his existenceon all his works, and his law in the heart of the last of mani To restore the knowledge of the one and the pro- ~ pheu. the practice of the other, has been the real orpretended aim of the prophets of every age; the liberalityof Mahomet allowed to his predecessors the same cre­dit which he claimed for himself; and the chain of in­spiration was prolonged from the fall of Adam to thepromulgation of the Koran.1 During that period, somerays of prophetic light had been imparted to one hun­dred and twenty-four thousand of the elect, discrimi­nated by their respective measures of virtue and grace;three hundred and thirteen apostles were sent with aspecial commission to recall their country from idolatryand vice; one hundred and four volumes had beendictated by the holy spirit; and six legislators of trans­cendent brightness have announced to mankind the sixsuccessive revelations of various rites, but of one im­mutable religion. The authority and station of Adam,Noah. Abraham, Moses, Christ, and Mahomet, rise injust gradation above each other; but whosoever hatesor rejects any one of the prophets is numbered with theinfidels. The writings of the patriarchs were extant onlyin the apocryphal copies of the Greeks and Syrians:™ theconductof Adam had not entitled him to the gra­titude or respect of his children: the seven pre­cepts of Noah were observed by an inferior and imperfectclass of the proselytes of the synagogue," and the me­mory of Abraham was obscurely revered by the Sabians I Reland, de Belig. Moharn. lib. 1. p. 17 — 47. (Sale's Preliminary Discourse,p. 73 — 76.; Voyage de dunlin, torn. 4. p. 18 — 37. and 37 — 47. for the Persianaddition, " Ali is the vicar of God - 1 Yet the precise number of prophets is not anarticle of faith. a For the apocryphal books of Adam, see Fabricius, Codex PseudepigraphutV.T. p. 27—29; of Seth, p. 154—157; of Enoch, p. 160— 219. But the book ofEnoch is cansecrated, in some measure, by the quotation of the apostle of St. Jude;and a long legendary fragment is alleged by Syncellus and Scaliger. II The seven precepts of Noah are explained by Marsham, (Canon Chronical,p. 154 — 180.) who adopts, on this occasion, the learnmg and credulity of Seldeu.