OCR Output 363 WARS or THE JEWS, Book II, Romans, than assisted those that had revolted. There had be­fore this met him Joseph, the first cousin of Archelaus, andGratus, together with Rufus, who led those of Sebaste, as wellas the king's army: there also met him those of the Roman le­gion, armed after their accustomed manner; for as to Sabinus,he durst not come into Varus's sight, but was gone out of thecity before this, to the sen-side; but Varus sent a part of hisarmy into the country, against those that had been the authors ofthis commotion, and as they caught great numbers of them,those that appeared to have been the least concerned in these tu­mult he put into custody, but such as were the most guilty hecrucified; these were in number about two thousand. 3. He was also informed, that there continued in Idumeatenthousand men still in arms; but when he found that the Ara­bians did not act like auxiliaries, but managed the war accord­ing to their own passions, and did mischief to the country other­wise than he intended, and this out of their hatred to Herod,he sent them away, but made haste, with his own legions, tomarch against those that had revolted; but these,by the adviceof Achiabus, delivered themselves up to him before it came to abattle. Then did Varus forgive the multitude their offences,but sent their captains to Caesar to be examined by him. NowCaesar forgave the rest, but gave orders that certain of theking's relations (for some of those that were among them whowere Herod's kinsmen), should be put to death, because theyhad engaged in a war against a king of their own family. Whentherefore Varus had settled matters at Jerusalem after thismanner, and had left the former legion there as a garrison, hereturned to Antioch. CHAP. VI. The Jews greatly complain of Archelaus, and desirf flat tleymay be made subject to Roman governors. But when Ccesarhad heard what they had to say, he distributed Herod's do­minions among his sons, according to his own pleasure,j 1. TJUT now came another accusation from the Jews against-t) Archelaus at Rome, which he was to answer to. Itwas made by those ambassadors, who, before the revolt, hadcome, by Varus's permission, to plead for the liberty of theircountry; those that came were fifty in number, but there weremore than eight thousand of the Jews at Rome who supportedthem. And when Caesar had assembled a council of the prin­cipal Romans in * Apollo's temple, that was in the palace (this was * This holding a council in the temple of Apollo, in the *mperer's pake* atRome, by Augustus, and even the building of this temple magnificently by him­self in that palace, »re exactly agreeable to Augustus, in his elder years, as Aldiiiehand Srauhci.il observe and prove, frosn Suetonius and Propenius.