OCR Output 476 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. spread out her hands, and begged of him,that he would not grow remiss on her ac­count; but indulge his indignation so muchthe more; and that he would do his utmostto take the place quickly, in order to gettheir enemy under his power; and then toavenge upon him what he had done to thosethat were dearest to himself. For that deathto her would be sweet, though attended withtorment; if that enemy of theirs might but bebrought to punishment for his wicked deal­ings to them. Now when his mother said so,he resolved to take the fortress immediately:but when he saw her beaten, and torn topieces, his courage failed him; and he couldnot but sympathize with what his mothersuffered, and was thereby overcome. And asthe siege was drawn out into length by thesemeans, that year on which the Jews use torest came on; for the Jews observe this restevery seventh year, as they do every seventhday. So Ptolemy, being* for this cause re­leased from the war, slew the brethren ofHyrcanus, and his mother. And when hehad so done, he fled to Zeno, surnamed Co-tylas; who was then tyrant of the city Phila­delphia. But Antiochus, being very uneasy at themiseries that Simon had brought upon him,invaded Judea, in the fourth year of his reign;and the first year of the principality of Hyr­canus, in the fhundred and sixty-secondOlympiad. And when he had burnt thecountry, he shut up Hyrcanus in the city;which he encompassed round with sevenencampments; but did nothing at the first;because of the strength of the walls, and thevalour of the besieged; although they were once in want of water; which yet they weredelivered from by a copious shower of rain,which fell at the Jsetting of the Pleiades.However, about the north part of the wall,where it happened the city was upon a levelwith the outward ground, the king raised ahundred towers of three stories high, andplaced bodies of soldiers upon them; and ashe made his attacks every day, he cut adouble ditch, deep, and broad; and confinedthe inhabitants within it, as within a wall.But the besieged contrived to make frequentsallies; and if the enemy were not any whereupon their guard, they fell upon them, anddid them a great deal of mischief; and ifthey perceived them, they then retired intothe city with ease. But because Hyrcanusdiscerned the inconvenience of so great anumber of men in the city; while the pro­visions were the sooner spent by them, andyet, as is natural to suppose, those greatnumbers did nothing; he separated the use­less part, and excluded them out of the city;and retained that part only which were inthe flower of their age, and fit for war. How­ever, Antiochus would not let those that wereexcluded go away. Who therefore wanderingabout between the walls, and consumingaway by famine, died miserably. But whenthe feast of the tabernacles was at hand,those that were within commiserated theircondition, and received them in again. Andwhen Hyrcanus sent to Antiochus, and de­sired there might be a truce for seven days,because of the festival; he gave way to thispiety towards God, and made that truce ac­cordingly. And besides that, he sent in amagnificent sacrifice, bulls with their ||homs * Hence we learn that, in the days of this excellenthigh-priest, John Hyrcanus, the observance of the sab­batic year, as Josephus supposed, required a rest fromwar; as did that of the weekly sabbath from work. Imean this, unless in the case of necessity, when the Jewswere attacked by their enemies; in which case indeed,and in which alone, they allowed defensive fighting to belawful, even on the sabbath day; as we see in severalplaces of Josephus, Antiq. XII. 6. XIII. 1. XIV. 4.XVHI. 9. Of the War, I. 7. IV. 2. But then it must benoted, that this rest from war no way appears in the firstbook of Maccabees, chap. xvi. but the direct contrary.Though indeed the Jews, in the days of Antiochus Epi-phanes, did not venture upon fighting on the sabbath day,even in the defence of their own lives; till the Asmo-neans or Maccabees decreed so to do. 1 Mace. ii. 32—-41.Antiq. XII. 6. | Josephus's copies, both Greek and Latin, have here a gross mistake; when they say, that this first year ofJohn Hyrcanus, which we have just now seen to havebeen a sabbatic year, was in the 162d Olympiad, whereasit was certainly the second year of the 161st. See thelike before, XII. 7. J This heliacal setting of the Pleiades, or seven stars,was in the days of Hyrcanus and Josephus, early in thespring, about February, the time of the latter rain in Ju­dea. And this so far as I remember, is the only astrono­mical character of time, besides one eclipse of the moon,in the reign of Herod, that we meet with in all Josephus.The Jews being little accustomed to astronomical obser­vations: any farther than for the use of their calendar;and utterly forbidden those astrological uses which theHeathens commonly made of them. || Dr. Hudson tells us here, that the custom of gildingthe horns of those oxen that were to be sacrificed, is aknown thing, both in the poets and orators.