OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ir9 193—197, empire; he left Rome at the end of thirty days, and, withoutsuffering himself to be elated by this easy victory, prepared to en­counter his more formidable rivals. The uncommon abilities and fortune of Severus have induced an Success of oeverus elegant historian to compare him with the first and greatest of the against Ni- 0 ger, and a- Cæsars *\ The parallel is, at least, imperfect. Where shall we gainst Aibi-find, in the character of Severus, the commanding superiority ofsoul, the generous clemency, and the various genius, which couldreconcile and unite the love of pleasure, the thirst of knowledge,and the fire of ambition +1? In one instance only, they may be com­pared, with some degree of propriety, in the celerity of their mo­tions, and their civil victories. In less than four years **, Severu6 A. D.subdued the riches of the east, and the valour of the west. Hevanquished two competitors of reputation and ability, and defeatednumerous armies, provided with weapons and discipline equal tohis own. In that age, the art of fortification, and the principles oftactics, were well understood by all the Roman generals; and theconstant superiority of Severus was that of an artist, who usesthe fame instruments with more skill and industry than his rivals.I fliall not, however, enter into a minute narrative, of these mili­tary operations; but as the two civil wars against Niger andagainst Albinus, were almost the fame in their conduct, event,and consequences, I shall collect into one point of view, the moststriking circumstances, tending to develope the character of the con­queror, and the state of the empire. Falsehood and insincerity, unsuitable as they seem to the dignityof public transactions, offend us with a less degrading idea of mean­ness, than when they are found in the intercourse of private life.In the latter, they discover a want of courage; in the other, only adefect of power; and, as it is impossible for the most able statesmen-to subdue millions of followers and enemies by their own personalstrength, the world, under the name of policy, seems to have granted. Conduct ofthe two civilwars, Ar;sof Several