OCR Output l66 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. under the same appellation of Goths, vtes insensiblyformed in the camp of Totila. He sincerely accomplishedthe articles of capitulation, without seeking or acceptingany sinister advantage from ambiguous expressions orunforeseen events: the garrison of Naples had stipulated,that they should be transported by sea; the obstinacy ofthe winds prevented their voyage, but they were gener­ously supplied with horses, provisions, and a safe con­duct to the gates of Rome. The wives of the senators,who had been surprised in the villas of Campania, wererestored, without a ransom, to their husbands; the vio­lation of female chastity was inexorably chastised withdeath; and, in the salutary regulation of the diet of thefamished Neapolitans, the conqueror assumed the officeof a humane and attentive physician. The virtues ofTotila are equally laudable, whether they proceeded fromtrue policy, religious principle, or the instinct of huma­nity: he often harangued his troops; and it was hisconstant theme, that national vice and ruin are insepara­bly connected: that victory is the fruit of moral as wellas military virtue; and that the prince, and even thepeople, are responsible for the crimes which they neglectto punish. Second The return of Belisarius, to save the country which heof Beiisa- had subdued, was pressed with equal vehemence by hisitaiy!" friends and enemies; and the Gothic war was imposeda. D.544 a3 a trust or an exile on the veteran commander. A —548. hero on the banks of the Euphrates, a slave in the pa­lace of Constantinople, he accepted, with reluctance, thepainful task of supporting his own reputation, and re­trieving the faults of his successors. The sea was opento the Romans.; the ships and soldiers were assembledat Salona, near the palace of Diocletian: he refreshedand reviewed his troops at Pola in Istria, coasted roundthe head of the Hadriatic, entered the port of Ravenna,and dispatched orders rather than supplies to the subor­dinate cities. His first public oration was addressed to'