OCR Output 208 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. 3. Now the people of Antioch hated Demetrius, both on ac­count of what mischief he had himself done them, and becausethey were his enemies also on account of his father Demetrius,who had greatly abused them, so they watched some opportu­nity which they might lay hold on, to fall upon him. Andwhen they were informed of the assistance that was coming toDemetrius from Jonathan, and considered at the same time thathe would raise a numerous army, unless they prevented him,and seized upon him, they took their weapons immediately, andencompassed his palace in the way of a siege, and seizing uponall the ways of getting out, they sought to subdue their king.And when he saw that the people of Antioch were become hisbitter enemies, and that they were thus in arms, he took themercenary soldiers, which he had with him, and those Jewswho were sent by Jonathan, and assaulted the Antiochians; buthe was overpowered by them, for they were many ten thou­sands, and was beaten. But when the Jews saw that the An­tiochians were superior, they went up to the top of the palace,and shot at them from thence; and because they were so re­mote from them by their height, that they suffered nothing ontheir side, but did great execution on the others, as fighting fromsuch an elevation, they drove them out of the adjoining houses,and immediately set them on fire, whereupon the flames spreaditself over the whole city, and burnt it all down. This hap­pened by reason of the closeness of the houses, and because theywere generally built of wood: so the Antiochians, when theywere not able to help themselves, nor to stop the fire, were putto flight And as the Jews leaped from the top of one house tothe top of another, and pursued them after that manner, itthence happened that the pursuit was so very surprising. Butwhen the king saw that the Antiochians were very busy insaving their children and their wives, and so did not fight anylonger, he fell upon them in the narrow passages, and foughtthem, and slew a great many of them, till at last they wereforced to throw down their arms, and to deliver themselves upto Demetrius. So he forgave them this their jnsolent beha­viour, and put an end to the sedition: and when he had givenrewards to the Jews out of the rich spoils he had gotten, andhad returned them thanks, as the cause of his victory, he sentthem away to Jerusalem, to Jonathan, with an ample testimonyof the assistance they had afforded him. Yet did he prove anill man to Jonathan afterward, and broke the promises he hadmade; and he threatened that he would make war upon him,unless he would pay all that tribute which the Jewish nationowed to the first kings [of Syria.] And this he had done, ifTrypho had not hindered him, and diverted his preparations