OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 7 mander-in-chief in the room of the incapable Nobilior, theconsul Marcus Claudius Marcellus, who had already, whenpraetor in 586, distinguished himself in Spain, and had since 168.that time given proof of his talents as a general in twoconsulships. His skilful leadership, and still more hisclemency, speedily changed the position of affairs: Ocilis atonce surrendered to him; and even the Arevacae, confirmedby Marcellus in the hope that peace would be granted tothem on payment of a moderate fine, concluded an armisticeand sent envoys to Rome. Marcellus could thus proceed tothe southern province, where the Vettones and Lusitanianshad professed submission to the prsator Marcus Atilius solong as he remained within their bounds, but after hisdeparture had immediately revolted afresh and chastised theallies of Rome. The arrival of the consul restored tran­quillity, and, while he spent the winter in Corduba, hos­tilities were suspended throughout the peninsula. Mean­while the question of peace with the Arevacae was discussedat Rome. It is a significant indication of the relationsexisting among the Spaniards themselves, that the emissariesof the Roman party which existed among the Arevacse werethe chief occasion of the rejection of the proposals of peaceat Rome, by representing that, if the Romans were notwilling to sacrifice the Spaniards friendly to their interests,they had no alternative save either to send a consul witha corresponding army every year to the peninsula or tomake an emphatic example now. In consequence of this,the ambassadors of the Arevacae were dismissed without adecisive answer, and it was resolved that the war should beprosecuted with vigour. Marcellus accordingly found himselfcompelled in the following spring (603) to resume the war 151-against the Arevacae. But—either, as was asserted, from hisunwillingness to leave to his successor who was expectedsoon the glory of terminating the war, or, as is perhaps moreprobable, from his believing like Gracchus that a humanetreatment of the Spaniards was the first thing requisite for alasting peace—the Roman general after holding a secret con­ference with the most influential men of the Arevacae con­cluded a treaty under the walls of Numantia, by which theArevacae surrendered to the Romans at discretion, but werereinstated in their former stipulated rights on their under­taking to pay money and furnish hostages. When the new commander-in-chief, the consul Lucius Lucullus.