OCR Output AN. H08.J 197 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. «It is not without some cause, that God re­fuses to answer what we inquire of him; whoyet a little while ago declared to us all thatwe desired beforehand, and even preventedus in his answer. To be sure there is somesin against him that is concealed from us,which is the occasion of his silence. Now Iswear by himself, that though he that com­mitted this sin should prove to be my own sonJonathan, I will slay him; and by that meanswill appease the anger of God against us;and that in the very same manner as if I wereto punish a stranger, and one not at all relatedto me for the same offence."* So when themultitude cried out to him so to do, he pre­sently set all the rest on one side, and he andhis son stood on the other side, and he soughtto discover the offender by lot. Now the lotappeared to fall upon Jonathan himself. Sowhen he was asked by his father what sin hehad been guilty of? and what he was con­scious of in the course of his life that mightbe esteemed instances of guilt or profaneness?his answer was this, "O father! I have donenothing more than that yesterday, withoutknowing of the curse and the oath thou hadstdenounced, while I was in pursuit of theenemy, I tasted of a honey-comb." Saul im­mediately swore that he would slay him, andprefer the observation of his oath before allthe ties of birth and of nature. But Jonathanwas not dismayed at this threatening; butoffering himself to it generously, and undaunt­edly, he said, "Nor do I desire you, father,to spare me. Death will be to me very ac­ceptable, when it proceeds from thy piety,and after a glorious victory; for it is the freatest consolation to me, that I leave the[ebrews victorious over the Philistines."Hereupon all the people were greatly afflictedfor Jonathan; and they sware that they wouldnot see him die, who was the author of theirvictory. By which means they snatched himout of the danger he was in from his father'scurse; while they made their prayers to God,also for the young man, that he would remithis sin. So Saul having slain about sixty thousandof the enemy, returned to his own city, andreigned happily. And he also fought against the neighbouring nations, and subdued theAmmonites, Moabites, Edomites, and Amale-kites; as also the king of Zobah. He hadthree male children, Jonathan, Ishui, andMelchi-shua, with Merah and Michal, hisdaughters. He had also Abner, his uncle'sson, for the captain of his host; that uncle'sname was Ner. Now Ner and Kish the fa­ther of Saul were brothers. Saul had also agreat many chariots and horsemen; andagainst whomsoever he made war, he re­turned conqueror, and advanced the affairs ofthe Hebrews to a great degree of success andprosperity, and made them superior to othernations. And he made such of the youngmen as were remarkable for tallness andcomeliness his body guards. chap, vn, op saul's war with the amalekites, and his conquest OF THEM. NOW Samuel came unto Saul,f and saidunto him, that he was sent by God toput him in mind, that God had preferred himbefore all others, and ordained him king; andhe therefore ought to be obedient to him, andto submit to his authority; as considering, thatthough he had the dominion over the othertribes, yet that God had the dominion overhim, and over all things. That accordinglyGod said to him, "Because the Amalekitesdid the Hebrews a great deal of mischiefwhile they were in the wilderness, and when,upon their coming out of Egypt, they weremaking their way to that country which isnow their own, I enjoin thee to punish theAmalekites, by making war upon them; andwhen thou hast subdued them, to leave noneof them alive; but to pursue them throughevery age, and to slay them; beginning withthe women and the infants; and to requirethis as a punishment to be inflicted on themfor the mischief they did to our forefathers.To spare nothing, neither asses, nor otherbeasts; nor to reserve any of them for yourown advantage and possession; but to devotethem universally to God, and, in obedienceto the commands of Moses, to blot out thename of J Amalek entirely." * 1 Sam. xiv. 39.t About an. 1106.X The reason of this severity is distinctly given, 1 Sam. xv. 18. Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amale­kites. Nor indeed do we ever meet with these Amale­kites, but as very cruel and bloody people; and particu- Ss2