OCR Output LUTETIA. 221 LUTEVA. fined to the island which afterwards was called LaCUe (civitas), a name given to the old Roman partof several French towns. But the island on whichstands the church of Notre Dame was then andf»r a long time after of leas extent than it is now;fur the site of the Place Dauphine was once twosmall islands which were not joined together andunited to the Cite before the sixteenth century; andthe *pot called Le Terrein was another additionproduced by the ruins of the buildings which wereerected in this part of the city. Paris was never alarge place under the Roman dominion. Ammianus(xr. 11) calls it a Castellurn, and Julian (Afwo-fogon, p. 340) and Zosimus name it a small city(roAxx*^). Zosimus, who was no great geographer,places it in German ia. Lutetia may probably haveoccupied some ground on the nrnth or on the south side«if the river, or even on both sides, for the islandwas joined to the mainland by bridges in Caesar'stime (/i. G. vii. 58), made of wood, as we may as­sume. Julan spent a winter in Paris, A. i>. 358,and was proclaimed Augustus there. (Ammian.Marcell. xvii. 2, 8, xx. 4.) The Franks underCluvis took Paris about the close of the 6fth century,a. D.; and about A. D. 508 Clovis made Parisis residence. A- A. The ri»er Sequana (St-ine).li. It. Th»- Hirer Mutrona (Manur). \. I.utt-tia {Paris <t on mi Inland. 2. Nrlodunum (Mtlun). on an island or point.The scale u tu English inilei. When Caesar (b. c. 52) was betting oat to attackGeiyovia, he sent Labienus with four legions againstthe Senones and Parisii. ( />. G. vii. 34.) Labienusadruiced upon Lutetia from Agedincum, where heleft his store*. His march was along the left bankof the Seine. The commander of the Gallic forcesoccupied a marshy tract, the water of which raninto the Seine, and here he waited, with the inten­tion of preventing the Romans from crossing theriver (B.G.\u. 57) to Lutetia. Labienus attemptedto make a mad across the marsh, but, finding itinipuHsible, he left his camp silently in the night,and, returning by tbe route by wliich he hud ad-tanied, he reached Melodunum (Mthtn), a town ofthe Srnories on an island in the Seine. He thereK>2ni about fifty vessels, and easily got possessionof MthoL After repairing the bridge from the island to the right bank of the river, he carried overhis men to the right side, and marched again uponLutetia. He took the vessels with him, and usedthem, as we must suppose, for crossing tbe Matrona(Marne), though the Marne is not mentioned inthe narrative. Before Labienus could reach Paris,the Galli set Lutetia on fire, and broke down thebridges which united the island to the main. Theyalso quitted the marsh, and placed themselves onthe banks of the Seine opposite to Lutetia and tothe cainp of Labienus, which was on the right sideof the river. In the meantime Caesar's defeat beforeGergovia was known, and Lahienus was threatenedfrom the north by the Bellovaci in his rear. Infront of him, on the opposite side of the river, werethe Parisii and their allies. His safety depended ongetting to the left bank of the Seine, and he ac­complished it by a clever movement. Soon afternightfall he left half a legion in his camp; heordered another half legion, with their baggage,to march up the river, making a loud noise; and hesent tip the river, in the same direction as the halflegion as many boats as he could collect, whichmade a great splashing with their oars. He sentthe ships that he brought from Melodunum fourmiles down the river, and, soon after despatching thehalf legion up the river, he marched with his threelegions down the stream in great silence, and foundhis ships. The scouts of the enemy, who wereplaced all along the stream, were surprised andslaughtered, for there was a great storm raging, andthey were off their guard. The three legions werecarried across the river in the vessels. The enemywere confounded by the unusual noise purposelymade in the Roman camp, by the boats moving upthe river, and by the news of the enemy crossinglower down. Accordingly, the Galli left part oftheir forces to watch the opposite camp, and sentanother part up the river towards Metioseduin, as itis in Caesar's text, which is either a mistake furMelodunum, or it is some place higher up the Seinethan Paris. Either supposition will explain Caesar.The Galli led the rest of their forces to oppose thethree legion which had crossed the Seine withLabienus, and, after a hard fight, they were defeatedand dispersed. Labienus led his troops back toAgedincum, where his stores and baggage were.This is the substance of Caesar's narrative, which iscorrectly explained by D'Anville (Notice, <J?c, art.Melodunum), and Ukert (Gallien, p. 476) has donewell in following him. Some of the old critics com­pletely misunderstood Labienus' movements; andeven, of late years, the passage has been wronglyexplained. The Romans built both on the island La Cite andon both sides of the Seine, but the Homan memorialsof Paris are very few. Some sculptured stones weredug up under the choir of Notre Dame. The in­scriptions were of the time of Tiberius Caesar, andshow that the Roman and Gallic deities were wor­shipped jointly. The remains of a subterraneanaqueduct have been discovered both on the north andsouth sides of the river. The materials of the Romancity were doubtless employed for more recent con­structions, and thus Roman Lutetia has disap­peared. [^* k*3 LUTE'VA (Eth. Lutevani: JLodere), in GalliaNarbonensis, is placed by the Table, where the nameis written Loteva, on a road from Agatha (Agile) toSegoduuum (Uhodtz). Pliny (iii. 5) says, ** Lute­vani qui et Koroneronicnscs," whence it has been