OCR Output VEIL 1205 VEIL in hare no notices of Veii except in the Tab. Peu-tiogeriana and the Geographer of Ravenna. ItWMi probably destroyed by the Lombards. At thebeginning of the 11th century a castle was erectedmi the precipitous and isolated hill on the S. sideof Veii, which was called la /tola, and is nowknown by the name of the Itola Famese. Sir William Gell was the first who gave an exact[>Un of Veii in the Memorie deldstituto (Fuse, i.),uv! afterwards in his Topography of Rome and itsVirixite. He traced the vestiges of the ancientrails, which were composed of irregular quadrilateralni«es of the local tufa, some of which were from 9u 11 feet in length. Mr. Dennis, however, failed tolumerany traces of them (Etruria, vol. i. p. 15), and[escribes the stone used in the fortifications of Veii,i being cut into smaller pieces than usual in otherCtnucan cities. These remains, which are princi-■ally to be traced in the N. and K., as well as thetrraini and the outline of the cliffs, determine theKent of the city in a manner that cannot be mis-ikra. They give a circumference of about 7 miles,ftiii h agrees with the account of Dionysius, beforepferred to, when he compares the size of Veii withlint of Athens. It has been debated whether the»lat«d rock, called the Itola Farntte, formed part ofbe city. Nibby (M'slonii, vol. iii. p. 424) and othersre of opinion that it was the arx or citadel. On■e other hand Sir William Gell and Mr. Dennis>U that this could not have been the case ; and itrait be confessed that the reasons advanced by theIter (vol. i. p. 42, note 5) appear decisive ; namely,. the Itola is separated from the city by a deepI'n, to that, had it been the citadel, Caiuillus by■ capture would not have obtained immediate pos-sti'io uf the town, as we learn from Livy's narrative,( ire referred to, that he did : 2, the remains ofnitran tombs on the Itola show that it must have•en a cemetery, and consequently without the walls,te two authorities last cited identify the citadelith the hill now called the ISazza d Armi at theEL extremity of the town, in the angle formed by junction of the stream called Fotto de' due Fosti■:h that called Fotto di Formello. These tworamx traverse the southern and eastern bowl­ines of ancient Veii. The latter of these streams,Fotto di Formello, is thought to be the ancienteinera. The other rivulet rises at La Torretta,■nit 12 miles from Rome. Near Veii it forms a tinetonict. precipitating itself over a rock about 80>'• high. From this spot it runs in a deep channellong precipices, and separates the Itola from the*t of V«i. It then receives the Hivo del JHno orill Startu, whence its name of Fotto de' due Foui.•tr joining the Fotto di Formello, or Crcmera,'united stream is now called La Valca, andi» into the Tiber about 6 miles from Rome, near> Via Flaminia. I opngraphera have discovered 9 gates, to whichrj bare assigned imaginary names from local cir-itstanees. It would be impossible to explain the"t sites of these gates without the assistance ofi'lan, and we shall therefore content ourselves withurrierating them in the order in which they occur,'inuing only that all writers do not call themThe westernmost gate, called the Porto de'tf Paji, from its being supposed to have led to the•rict called the Srptem Pagi, is situated near thedttt Itola. Then proceeding round tlte S. side[he city, the next gate occurs near the Fotto dell' I•I". and, from it* leading to the rock of I sola, which, Ivoi. n. as we have seen, was thought by some topographersto be the ancient citadel, lias been called the Portadell' Arce. The next gate on the E. is the PortaCampana; and after that, by the Piazza a* Armi, isthe Porta Fidenate. Near this spot was discovered, in1840, the curious staircase called La Scaletta. Onlyeight steps of uncemented masonry, seated high in thecliff, remain, the lower part having fallen with thecliff. After passing the Piazza of Armi, in traversingthe northern side of the city by the valley of theCremera, the gates occur in the following order: thePorta di Pietra Pertuta; the Porta delle AreMuzie; the Porta Captnate; the Porta del Colom-bario, so named from the columbarium near it;and lastly the Porta Sutrina, not far from the Pontedi Formello. The Municipium Veiens, which succeeded theancient town, was undoubtedly smaller; for Romansepulchres and columbaria, which must have beenoutside the Municipium, hare been discovered withinthe walls of Etruscan Veii. It was perhaps notmore than 2 miles in circumference. On the spotprobably occupied by the Forum, were discoveredthe colossal heads of Augustus and Tiberius, andthe colossal statue of the latter, crowned with oakand in a sitting posture, which are now in the Vati­can, in the corridor of the Muteo Chiamnwnte.Several other fragments of statues bare been found,as well as 24 marble columns, 12 of which nowadorn the Piazza Colonna at Rome, and the rest areemployed in the Chapel of the Sacrament in the newBasilica of St Paul. The remains of Etruscan Veii are portions of thewalls, the bridge near the Porta di Pietra Pertuta,the bridge, or tunnel, called Ponte Sodo, and thetombs and sepulchral grottoes. Of the wails we havealready spoken. The remains of the bridge consistof a piece of wall about 20 feet wide on the bankof the stream, which seems to have formed the pierfrom which the arch sprung, and some large blocksof hewn tul'o which lie in the water. The piers ofthe bridge called Ponte Formello are also possiblyEtruscan, but the arch is of Roman brickwork. ThePonte Sodo is a tunnel in the rock through whichthe stream flows. Nibby (Itintorni, vol. iii. p. 433),describes it as 70 feet long., 20 wide, and 15 high:but Mr. Denuis, who waded through it, says that itis 240 feet long, 12 to 15 wide and nearly 20 hiirh(Ftnria, vol. i. p. 14). It is in all probability anEtruscan excavation, or has at all events been enlargedby art. An ancient road ran over it ; and from aboveit is scarcely visible. No trare remains of the cuni-cuius of Caiuillus. The vicinity of Veii aboundswith tombs excavated in the rock, and sepulchraltumuli, some of which are Roman. Among thetombs is a very remarkable one, discovered in thewinter of 1942, and still open to inspection. Itconsists of a long passage in the tumulus, or mound,called Pvggio Aiichele, leading to a door in the mid­dle of the mound, and guarded at each end by sculp­tured lions. This is the entrance to a low darkchamber, hewn out of the nx k, the walls of whichare covered with paintings of the most grotesquecharacter, consisting of horses, men, sphinxes, dogs,leopards, he. On either hide a bench of rock, about2} feet high, projects from the wall, on each ofwhich, when the tomb was first opened, a skeletonreposed ; but these soon crumbled into dust. Oneof them, from the arms lying near, was the remainsof a warrior ; the other skeleton was probably that ofhis wife. On the tioor were large jars containing 4 x r