OCR Output 276 livy. of Hannibal to sue for peace. These coming underthe stern of the general's ship, holding out the badgesof supplicants, besought and implored the favor andcompassion of Scipio: but they received no other an­swer, than that they should come to Tunes, to whichplace he intended to remove his camp. Then, aftertaking a view of the situation of Carthage, not somuch for the sake of any present use which he in­tended to make of his knowlege of it, as of dispiritingthe enemy, he returned to Utica, and at the same timerecalled Octavius thither. As they advanced towardsTunes, an account was brought that Vermina, son ofSyphax, with a greater number of horse than of foot,was coming to the aid of the Carthaginians. A de­tachment of the army, with all the cavalry, attackingthis body of Numidians on their march, on the firstday of the Saturnalia, routed them without much diffi­culty; and every possibility of flight being cut off bythe surrounding cavalry, fifteen thousand men wereslain, one thousand two hundred taken, together withfifteen hundred horses, and seventy-two militarystandards. The prince himself, with very few attend­ants, made his escape during the tumult. The campwas then pitched near Tunes, in the same place as be­fore, whither thirty ambassadors came from Carthageto Scipio, and the behavior of these was much morecalculated to excite compassion than that of the former,as their distress was still increasing. But, from therecollection of their late perfidy, they were heard withthe less pity. In the council, though all were stimu­lated by just resentment to pursue Carthage to de­struction, yet, when they considered how great an un­dertaking it was, and what a length of time the siegeof a city, so strong and so well fortified, would re­quire, (Scipio himself also being uneasy, under theapprehension of a successor being appointed in hisplace, who might claim the glory of having terminatedthe war, though it had been actually brought to anissue by the labors and dangers of another,) they allbecame inclined to peace.