OCR Output 36 ROMAN EMPIRE. Faith of For these scandalous offences Dioscorus wasChaicedon. deposed by the synod, and banished by theemperor: but the purity of his faith was declared in thepresence, and with the tacit approbation, of the fathers.Their prudence supposed, rather than pronounced, theheresy of Eutyches, who was never summoned beforetheir tribunal; and they sat silent and abashed, whena bold Monophysite, casting at their feet a volume ofCyril, challenged them to anathematize in his personthe doctrine of the saint. If we fairly peruse the actsof Chalcedon as they are recorded by the orthodoxparty," we shall find that a great majority of the bishopsembraced the simple unity of Christ; and the ambi­guous concession, that he was formed OF OR FROM twonatures, might imply either their previous existence, ortheir subsequent confusion, or some dangerous intervalbetween the conception of the man and the assumptionof theGod. The Roman theology, more positive and pre­cise, adopted the term most offensive to the ears of theEgyptians, that Christ existed i N two natures: and thismomentous particle' (which the memory, rather thanthe understanding, must retain) had almost produced aschism among the Catholic bishops. The tome of Leo application was unknown to the editor Brodnus. The nameless epigrammatistraises a tolerable pun, by confounding the episcopal salutation of " Peace be to all!"with the genuine or corrupted name of the bishop's concubine.—Eifim iramrm iirmmit turn iflXSm,rii,- tuMTai man in fttnt iiJ't ax" i I am ignorant whether the patriarch, who seems to have been a jealous lover, isthe Cimon of a preceding epigram, whose mot imuut was viewed with envy andwondci by Priapus himself. • Those who reverence the infallibility of synods, may try to ascertain theirsense. The leading bishops were attended by partial or careless scribes, who dis­persed their copies round the world. Our Greek MSS. are sullied with the falseand proscribed reading of tx tan $iwi», (Condi, torn. 3. p. 1460.) the authentictranslation of Pope Leo I. does not seem to have been executed; and the old Latinversions materially difier from the present Vnlgate, which was revised (A.D. 550.)by Rusticus, a Roman priest, from the best MSS. of the AUCI/UHTM at Constanti­nople, (Ducange, C. P. Christiana, lib. 4. p. 151.) a famous monastery of Latins,Greeks, and Syrians. See Coin. il. torn. 4. p. 1959—2049. and Paei Critica, torn.2. p. 326, &c. 1 It is darkly represented in the microscope of Petravius; (torn. 5. lib. 3. c. 5.)yet the subtle theologian is himself afraid—ne quis fortasse supervacaneam, etminis auxiam putet hujusmodi vocularum inquisitionem, et ab instituti theologicigravitate alienarn. (p. 124.)