OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 13 each successive demand more intolerable than its predeces­sor; and at length they were required even to surrendertheir arms. Then Viriathus recollected the fate of hiscountrymen whom Galba had caused to be disarmed, andgrasped his sword afresh. But it was already too late. Hiswavering had sown the seeds of treachery among those whowere immediately around him; three of his confidants,Audas, Ditalco, and Minurus from Urso, despairing of thepossibility of renewed victory, procured from the king per­mission once more to enter into negotiations for peace withCaepio, and employed it for the purpose of selling the life ofthe Lusitanian hero to the foreigners in return for the assur­ance of personal amnesty and further rewards. On theirreturn to the camp they assured the king of the favourableissue of their negotiations, and in The following night stabbedhim while asleep in his tent. The Lusitanians honoured theillustrious chief by an unparalleled funeral solemnity atwhich two hundred pairs of champions fought in the funeralgames; and still more highly by the fact, that they did notrenounce the struggle, but nominated Tautamus as theircommander-in-chief in room of the fallen hero. The planprojected by the latter for wresting Saguntum from theRomans was sufficiently bold ; but the new general possessedneither the wise moderation nor the military skill of his pre­decessor. The expedition was a total failure, and the armyon its return was attacked in crossing the Baetis and com­pelled to surrender unconditionally. Thus was Lusitaniasubdued, far more by treachery and assassination on the partof foreigners and natives than by honourable war. While the southern province was scourged by Viriathus Numantia.and the Lusitanians, a second and not less serious war had,not without their help, broken out in the northern provinceamong the Celtiberian nations. The brilliant successes ofViriathus induced the Arevacae likewise in 610 to rise 144.against the Romans; and on that account the consulQuintus Cacilius Metellus, who was sent to Spain torelieve Maximus TEmilianus, did not proceed to thesouthern province, but turned against the Celtiberians.In the contest with them, and more especially duringthe siege of the town of Contrebia which was deemedimpregnable, he showed the same ability which he haddisplayed in vanquishing the Macedonian pretender; afterhis two years' administration (611, 612) the northern pro- 143. 142.