OCR Output CHAP. XLYIII. J07 cured by a supply., of five hundred sheep to the imperialcamp. His first service was in the guards of Justinian,where he soon attracted the notice, and, by degrees, thejealousy, of the tyrant. His valour and dexterity wereconspicuous in the Colchian war: from Anastasius hereceived the command of the Anatolian legions, and bythe suffrage of the soldiers he was raised to the empire,with the general applause of the Roman world. II. Inthis dangerous'elevation, Leo III. supported himselfagainst the envy of his equals, the discontent of a power­ful faction, and the assaults of his foreign and domesticenemies. The Catholics, who accuse his religious inno­vations, are obliged toconfess^that they were undertakenwith temper, and conducted with firmness. Their silencerespects the wisdom of his administration and the purityof his .manners. After a reign of twenty-four year*, hepeaceably expired in the palace of Constantinople; andthe purple which he had acquired, was transmitted bythe right of inheritance to the third generation.Constan- ^n tne ^onS reign of thirty-four years, the sontinev.co- and successor of Leo. Constantine V. surnamed pronymus, . A.D.7*i.Copronymus, attacked with Jess temperate zealthe images or idols of the church. Their vo­taries have exhausted the bitterness of religious gall, intheir portrait of this spotted panther, this antichrist,this flying dragon of the serpent's seed, who surpassedthe vices of Elagabalus and Nero. His reign was a longbutchery of whatever was most noble, or holy, or inno­cent, in his empire. In person, the emperor assist­ed at the execution of his victims, surveyed their ago­nies, listened to their groans, and indulged, withoutsatiating his appetite for blood: a plate of noses wasaccepted as a grateful offering, and his domestics wereoften scourged or mutilated by the royal hand. Hissurname was derived from his pollution of his baptismalfont. The infant might be excused; but the manlypleasures of Copronymus degraded him below the level