OCR Output VIA APPIA.VIA AURELIA. 1295 usual to cross the Sicilian straits. The total dis­tance from Capua to Kbegium, according to theabove description, in 321 miles. The AntonineItinerary makes it 337 miles. It is difficult to judgehow far this discrepancy is owing to error* in thedistances as given in our MSS., or to alterations inthe liue of road; for though it is erident that theroad given in the Itinerary followed generally thesame line as that originally constructed by Popi-lins, it is probable that many alterations bad takenplace in particular parts; and in the wild and moun­tainous tracts through which the greater part of itwas carried, such alterations must frequently havebeen rendered necessary. The determination of theparticular distances is, for the same reason, almostimpossible, without being able to trace the precisecourse of the ancient road, which has not yet beenaccomplished. The stations and distances, as givenin the Antonine Itinerary, are as follow:— MP. From Capua to Kola - - - zxi. (xix.)*Nuceria (ATocero) - xvi.* (xiv.)Ad Tanarum - - xxv.Ad Calorem ... xxiv.In Marcelliana - - xxv.Caesariana - - - xxi.Nerulum (Z.a/<o'«wia) xxiii.bub Muruno (near Murano) - xiv.Caprasiae ( Tartia) - xxi.Consentia (Coienia) xxviii.Ad Sabatum uuvium xviii.Ad Turns ... xviii.Vibuna (Monte Leone) xxi.Nicotera (A'icolera) - xviii.Ad Mallias - xxiv.Ad Columnam - - xiv.The stations between Nuceria and Nerulum can*not be determined. Indeed the only points that canIret looked upon as certain, in the whole line fromNuceria to Rhegium, are Sub Murano, at,the foot ofttie bill on which stands the town of Mvrono, Con-leolia (Cinema), Who Valeiitia (Munle Ltune), andNicotera, which retains its ancient name. Nerulumand Caprasiae may be 6xed with tolerable certaintyI,j reference to these known stations, and the dis­tances in this part of the route appear to be correct.The others must remain uncertain, until the courseof tl>e road has been accurately traced. At Nerulum the attove line of road was joined byone winch struck across from Venusia through Po-ti-otia (PoUnza) to that place. It was a continu­ation of tiir cri»ss-road already noticed from Equus'i uticua to Venusia: this line, which is given in theAntonine Itinerary (p. 104), wascalled, as we learnfrven the inscriptions on milestones still extant, theVia Hebculia, and was therefore in all probabilitytbat work of the Emperor Maximianus. (Mommsen,/ /£. A*, p- 348.) The stations mentioned in the Iti­nerary (<• *-) are: — Kroxn Venusia to Opinum . - - xv. M. p. Ad Huv. Bradanum xxix. • Both these distances are overstated, and shouldbe corrected as suggested by the numbersitheses. The aame distances are given inTavb. Peut. thus:— Capua to Suessula - - - ix. >t. p.Nola - -- -- -- ix. Ad Teglanum v.Nuceria ...... ix. xxiv.xxiv. From Venusia to Potcntia (Polenta)Acidii(?) - - -Grumentum (Sapo- nara) ... xxviii.Semuncla (?) - - xxvii.Nerulum ... xvi. None of the above stations can be identified, exceptPotentia and Grumentum. and the distances are insome cases certainly erroneous. The same line ofroute is given in the Tabula, but in a very confusedand corrupt manner. The stations there set down arewholly different from those in the Itinerary, butequally uncertain. Anxia (Ami), between Potentiaaud Grumentum, is the only one that can be identified. The principal work on the Via Appia is that ofPratilli (Mia Via Appia, foL Napoli, 1745); but,unfortunately, little dependence can be placed uponit. Parts of the route hare been carefully and accu­rately examined by Westphal, Chsupy, and otherwriters already cited, but many portions still remainto be explored; and accurate measurements aregenerally wanting. Nor does there exist any map ofthe kingdom of Naples on which dependence can beplaced in this respect. [E. 11. B.] VIA AQUILIA. [Via Api-ia, No. 5.] VIA ARDEATINA. [Akdha.] VIA AUIiELIA, one of the principal highwaysof Italy, which led from Rome to Pisae in Etruria,and tlienco along tho coast of Liguria to tileMaritime Alps. It was throughout almost its wholeextent a maritime road, proceeding, in the first in-stance, from Rome to Alsiuin cn the Tyrrheniansea, whence it followed the coast-line of Etruria,with only a few trifling deviations, the whole way toPisae. The period of its construction is quite un­certain. Its name sufficiently indicates thai it wasthe work of some magistrate of the name of Aurelius;but which of the many illustrious men who bore thisname in the latter ages of the Republic was the au­thor of it, we are entirely uninformed. We know withcertainty that it was in use as a well-known and fre­quented highway in the time of Cicero, who mentionsit as one of the three roads by which he mightproceed to Cisalpine Gaul ("ab infero mari Aurelia,"l'hil. xii. 9). It may also be probably inferred thatit was in existence as far ss Pisae, when the road wascarried from that city to Vada Sabata and Derton.i,the construction of which is ascribed by Strabo toAeniilius Scaurus, in B.C. 1U9 (Str.ib. v. p. 217).[Via Akmilia Scauki ] This continuation of theAurelian Way seems to have been commonly includedunder the same general name as the original road;though, according to Strabo, it was properly calledthe Aemilian Way, like its more celebrated namesakein Cisalpine Gaul. It was apparently not till thereign of Augustus that the line of road was carriedalong the foot of the Maritime Alps, from Vada Sa-bata to Cetnenelium, and thence into Gaul. It iscertain, at least, that the ancient road, of which thetraces are still visible, was the work of that emperor;and we know also that the Ligurian tribes who in­habited the Maritime Alps were not completely re­duced to subjection till that period. [Liui'ria.]The Itineraries, however, give the name of Via Au­relia to the whole line of road from Rome to Arelatein Ganl; and though little value can be attached totheir authority on this point, it is not improbablethat the name was frequently used in this more ex­tended sense; just as that of the Via Appia wasapplied to the whole line from Rome to Bruudusium,though originally carried only as far as Capua.