OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 46Q A daughter of Phocas, his only child, was given in Hi« *JJmarriage to, the patrician Crispus,' and the royal images a. d. eio,of the bride and bridegroom were indiscreetly placed in the Ootu etcircus by the side of the emperor. The father must desirethat his posterity should inherit the fruit of his crimes,but the monarch was offended by this premature and po- ,>pular association : the tribunes of the green faction, whoaccused the officious error of their sculptors, were con­demned to instant death: their lives were granted to the ,prayers of the people; but Crispus might reasonably <doubt whether a jealous usurper could forget and par­don his involuntary competition. The green faction wasalienated by the ingratitude of Phocas and the loss oftheir privileges; every province of the empire was ripefor rebellion; and Heraclius, exarch of Africa, persistedabove two years in refusing all tribute and obedience tothe centurion who disgraced the throne of Constantino­ple. By the secret emissaries of Crispus and the senate,the independent exarch was solicited to save and to go­vern his country: but his ambition was chilled, by age,and he resigned the dangerous enterprise to his son He­raclius, and to Nicetas, the son of Gregory his friend andlieutenant. The powers of Africa were armed by the twoadventurous youths; they agreed that the one shouldnavigate the fleet from Carthage to Constantinople, thatthe other should lead an army through Egypt andA.sia,and that the imperial purple should be the reward of di­ligence and success. A faint rumour of their under-staking was conveyed to the ears of Phocas, and the wife .and mother of the younger Heraclius were secured as thehostages of his faith: but the treacherous art of Crispusextenuated the distant peril, the means of defence wereneglected or delayed, and the tyrant supinely slept till 1777.) -roc -rugawiSo? o Siwxaflejtro; xai BiofyQcpcs Spaxcvy. The latter epithet is jast—bat the corrupter of life was easily vanquished. *" In the1 writers, and in the copies of those writers, there is such hesitation hetweenthe names of Priscus and Crispus, (Ducange, Fam. Bj'zant. p. 111.) that I havebeen tempted to identify the son-in-taw of Phocas with the hero five times victoriousov«r the Ava'r».