OCR Output 498 DECLINE AND FALL - [CHAP. XLVI. not be denied, that tyrants of every age and sect are thebest entitled to such infernal abodes. The glory of thehouse of Sassan ended with the life of Chosroes; his un­natural son enjoyed only eight months the fruit of hiscrimes; and in the space of four years the regal title wasassumed by nine candidates, who disputed, with thesword or dagger, the fragments of an exhausted mon­archy. Every province, and each city of Persia, was thescene of independence, of discord, and of blood, and thestate of anarchy prevailed about eight years longer, tillthe factions were silenced and united under the commonyoke of the Arabian caliphs.' ,Treaty of As soon as the mountains became passable, the empe- peace be- , r i tween the ror received the welcome news of the success of the con-pTres6,™ spiracy, the death of Chosroes, and the elevation of hisMarcii6&e' ^dest son to the throne of Persia. The authors of therevolution, eager to display their merits in the count orcamp of Tauris, preceded the ambassadors of Siroes, whodelivered the letters of their master to his brother the em­peror of the Romans.1, In the language of the usurpersof every age, he imputes his own crimes to the Deity, and,without degrading his equal majesty, he offers to recon­cile the long discord of the two nations, by a treaty ofpeace and alliance more durable than brass or iron. Theconditions of the treaty were easily defined and faithfullyexecuted. In the recovery of the standards and prisonerswhich had fallen into the hands of the Persians, the em­peror imitated the example of Augustus: their care ofthe national dignity was celebrated by the poets of thetimes, but the decay of genius may be measured by thedistance between Horace and George of Pisidia; the sub­jects and brethren of Heraclius were redeemed from per­secution, slavery, and exile; but instead of the Roman vioSn tit t« xara^Oona .. . eic to rup axaraff-^ta-roVj &c.) in the letter of Heraclius: healmost applauds the parricide of Siroes as an act of piety and justice. 1 The best oriental accounts of this last period of the Sassanian kings are foundio Entychius, (Annal. tom. 2. p. 251—256.) who dissembles the parricide of Siroes;d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 789.) and Assemanni, Bibliothec. Oriental,tom. 3. p. 415—420. r The letter of Siroes in the Paschal Chronicle, (p, 402.) unfortunately ends be­fore he proceeds to business. The treaty appears in its execution, in the historiesof Theophancs and Nicephorus. . . «