OCR Output 141E Ai.\4iS jA.U.C.775. vesta] virgin of distinguished sanctity. The fathers ed the prosecution, and sentence of condemnationwas pronounced. Lucius Ennius, a Roman knigkt,who had melted down a silver statue of the emperor,and converted it to domestic uses, was accused on thelaw of majesty. Tiberius stopt the proceedings.Against this act of lenity Ateius Capito protestedopenly; contending, with an air of ancient liberty,that " the right of the senate to hear and determine," ought not to be retrenched; especially when a crime" of that magnitude called for vindictive justice. The" prince, in his own case, might be slow to resent; but" let him not be generous at the expense of the pub-" lie.!' This language, blunt as it was, gave no offenceto Tiberius: he saw the drift of the speech, and, dis­regarding the tone with which it was uttered, persistedin his resolution. Capito brought disgrace on hisname. Accomplished as he was in the science of laws,both human and divine, he possessed, besides, a num­ber of virtues that adorned his private character; butby this act of servile flattery he sullied the lustre of adistinguished name. LXXI. A question that concerned a point of reli­gion was the next subject of debate. The Romanknights had vowed a statue, for the recovery of Livia,to fortune the equestrian. In what temple thisshould be placed was the doubt. At Rome there werevarious structures sacred to the goddess, but none un­der that specific title. Upon inquiry it was foundthat there was at Antium a temple with that particu­lar denomination; and it being Considered that thewhole system of rites and ceremonies, and the severaltemples and images of the gods throughout Italy,were subject to the supreme authority of Rome, itwas resolved that the votive present should be placed! Antium. This being a point of religious ceremony,iberius took the opportunity to determine the ques->n, which had been for some time in suspense, con-rning Servius Maluginensis, the priest of Jupiter.