OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 233 ther designs became unveiled, a change took place; he couldnot venture to bring in his chief law; he had to postpone,he had to delay, he had soon to retire. It was reported thatthe majority of the senate was vacillating and threatened tofall away from its leaders; in rapid succession the tidingsran through the communities of Italy, that the law whichhad passed was annulled, that the capitalists ruled moreabsolutely than ever, that the tribune had been struck bythe hand of an assassin, that he was dead (autumn of 663). 91. The last hope that the Italians might obtain admission to Prepara-Boman citizenship by agreement was buried with Marcus tions ,ilrDrusus. A measure, which that conservative and energetic Se°eral f'man had not been able under the most favourable circum- Kome.Si"ni.stances to induce his own party to adopt, was not to begained at all by amicable means. The Italians had no courseleft to them save to submit patiently or to repeat once more,and if possible with their united strength, the attempt whichhad been crushed in the bud five-and-thirty years beforeby the destruction of Fregellae—so as by force of arms eitherto destroy Home and succeed to her heritage, or at least tocompel her to grant equality of rights. The latter resolu­tion was no doubt a resolution of despair; as matters stood,the revolt of the isolated urban communities against theltoman government might well appear still more hopelessthan the revolt of the American colonies against the Britishempire; to all appearance the Roman government mightwith moderate attention and energy of action consign thissecond insurrection to the fate of its predecessor. But wasit less perhaps a resolution of despair, to sit still and allowthings to take their course? When they recollected howthe Romans had been in the habit of behaving in Italywithout provocation, what could they expect now that themost considerable meu in every Italian town had or werealleged to have had—the consequences on either suppositionbeing pretty mucfi the same—an understanding with Drusus,.which was immediately directed against the party now vic­torious and might well be characterized as treason? Allthose who had taken part in this secret league, all in fact whomight be merely suspected of participation, had no choiceleft save to begin the war or to bend their neck beneath theaxe of the executioner. Moreover, tho present moment pre­sented comparatively favourable prospects for a general in­surrection throughout Italy. We are not exactly informed