OCR Output 262 TERRIBLE FAMINE. [b. VI. own age; and, besides, my country would have had littlereason to thank me for suppressing the miseries that she un­derwent at this time. 4. There was a certain woman that dwelt beyond Jordan;her name was Mary; her father was Eleazar, of the villageBethezub, which signifies the House of Hyssop. She waseminent for her family and her wealth, and had fled away toJerusalem, with the rest of the multitude, and was with thembesieged therein at this time. The other effects of this womanhad been already seized upon, such I mean as she had broughtwith her out of Perea, and removed to the city. What shehad treasured up besides, as also what food she had contrivedto save, had been also carried off by the rapacious guards,who came every day running into her house for that purpose.This put the poor woman into a very great passion; and bythe frequent reproaches and imprecations she cast at theserapacious villains, she had provoked them to anger againsther; but none of them, either out of the indignation she hadraised against herself, or out of commiseration of her case,would take away her life; and if she found any food, sheperceived her labors were for others, and not for herself; andit was now become impossible for her any way to find anymore food, while the famine pierced through her very bowelsand marrow, when also her passion fired to a degree beyondthe famine itself; nor did she consult with any thing but withher passion and the necessity she was in. She then attempteda most unnatural thing, and snatching up her son, who was achild sucking at her breast, she said, — "O thou miserableinfant! for whom shall I preserve thee in this war, this famine,and this sedition ? As to the war with the Romans, if theypreserve our lives, we must be slaves. This famine also willdestroy us even before that slavery comes upon us. Yet arethe seditious rogues more terrible than both the other. Comeon; be thou my food, and bo thou a fury to these seditiousvarlets, and a byword to the world, which is all that is nowwanting to complete the calamities of us Jews." As soon asshe had said this, she slew her son, and then roasted him,and ate the one-half of him, and kept the other half by her,