OCR Output 262 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK lit "pie; nor would they regard their imaginary fasces,"and pretended authority. Appius now finding matters come to that pass, thatif he did not oppose impudence on his part, to-spirit ontheirs, there would be an end of decem viral authority:"you had better be silent," say? he, "than drop a-sin-"gle word deviating from the question upon which we"ask your advice." When Valerius refused to he awedinto silence by a mork magistrate, Appius ordered alictor to seize him. Valerius then,' from the porch ofthe senate-house, called oat to the Romans-for assistance,but L. Cornelius took Appius in his arms, not out of re­gard to Valerius, as he pretended, which put an end tothe dispute. By this interposition of Corneliu.% Valeriuswas at liberty to speak his sentiments; but as this libertyextended only to words, the decemvirs still gained theirjiointi Moreover, the consular gentlemen, and elder se­nators, from an aversion to tribunitian power, which wasnot yet eradicated, as they saw the people more attachedto it than to consular government, rather wished that thedecemvirs should afterwards resign their office uncom-pelled, than that- the people, from their abhorrence todecemvirs, should get head again. For should the go­vernment, without a bustle, or popular commotion, re­turn into the hands of consuls, it was not impossible, buteither by the intervention of wars, or a mild exercise ofthe consular government, the people might be broughtto think no more of their tribunes. Thus was an edict issued for levying an army, with­out farther interruption from the fathers; and as therehad- been no appeal from the decemviral authority, theyounger citizens answered to their names. After the en­rolment was fmished, the decemvirs concerted amongthemselves who should go out to the war, and who shouldhead the armies. Q. Fabius and Appius Claudius were at the head ofthe decemvirs; and as there appeared more danger fromthe citizens at home, than the enemies abroad, theythought Appius, from the violence of his temper, wasbest calculated to quell any commotions that might arisein the city. The. disposition of Fabius prompted himrather to be active in a bad cause, than steady in a good