OCR Output NIGEIRA. 429 XILI TALUDES. aV XI m tut. Clindian rould not have intendedfctaa rinr, the Gait of Pliny (t. 1), at the foot of■ti!ai.ud a desert of black rand and burnta»»(.Vs«.'). at which Paullinns arrived in a fewjsanvy (tun the maritime part of Mauretania;is it a probable that be may have intended,al&exof Ptolemy, but the Nigeir. The tcr-aa Ger wis pr> bah]y a generic word, appliedri mwi ud irateni in N. Africa, aa well aspah Si; both were probably derived from thetk, mi came through the Phoenicians to thefat By a not tuinalnral error, the word became*ith the epithet " Niger," and thus theiXigritae or Xigretes was synonymous withk(tWBhck«); the real etymology of the nameIfcopUia the common belief of the Africans,•9 tbt water* of their country flow to theIt'» from this ootioii of the identity of all■am of S. Africa that Pliny received theI smart of the Nile and Niger, from theI Jaha of Nomidia. He reported that theW its origin in a mountain of Lower Maure-i wt <ar from the Ocean, in a stagnant lakeIXSi; that it flowed from thence through'amwti, in which it was concealed for severalaWt it mppeaml in a great lake in Maure-Caaa-wnsu; that it was again hidden forf am in deserts; and that it rose again in the■efta* Sigris, which river, after having sepa-ttiei from Aetbiopia, and then flowed through(Ho of Aetbiopia, at length became theIt*tit Nile called Astapos. The same fable,i ntbsat the Nigeir being mentioned, isI to by Strabo (xrii p. 826; tin up. Vitrnv.} It); while Mela (iii. 9. § 8) adds that theks source was also called Dara, so thatwhich now bears the name EUDharawan to be the stream which was the reputed■■sat of the Nile. The Niger of Pliny wasweaaVfeat river, both in its nature and po-law the Ger of the same author. It was situ-^BicVef the great desert on the line separating^waa Aethiopia; and its magnitude and pro­of sack at the hippopotamus and crocodile,w> taadt to correspond to any of the smallf<wa Atlas. Neither do these swell at thea*a as the Nile, being fed, not by tropicalI b greatest quantity near the summerwB by the waters of the maritime ridges,■sat abandant in winter. The Niger isby the Geographer of Ravenna, norstO the work of Joannes Leo AfricanusHear—which was written at Rome, andat Latin, a.m. 1556. Though his work isin being the only account extant of thesf the Negro empires of 5iiddn, yet he isthis point, as though he had failed onTimimttm; be declares that the stream» t» the E, as it is known to do, butis Gmim or Jme. This mistake leda> kek fur its estuary in tbe Sentgnl,awl ho Grade. The true course of thehas now been traced to its mouth, con-SawaaroU of the ancients as to the greatthrr tmnorndv describe aa flowing from[E. B.J.] NlGKITAE.] US, Nigropolltrm, or Nigropullo, inla plai n! by the Tbeodosian Table on■Crotram Batavorum (/-estfeji) to No-( Viavywea). The distance is 11 from Albiniana (Alfen), ascending the Rliine.Ukert (Galium, p. 533) quotes a Dutch author, whosays that there is a village near WotriUn stillcalled Zwarte Kuikenlnmrt. (D'Anville, Xotice,#tf [G. L.] NIGBI'TAE, NIGRE'TES (Nrypmu, Strab. ii.p. 131, xvii. p. 826; Ptol. iv. 6. § 16; Agathem.ii. 5; Mela, i. 4. § 3, iii. 10. § 4; Plin. v. 8;Ntyprjres, Strab. xvii. p. 828; Dionys. v. 215;Stepli. B.), an African tribe who with the Pharusiiwere said to have destroyed the Tyrian settlementson the coast of the Atlantic, and though adjacentto the W. Aethiopians, were distant only thirtyjourneys from Linx or Lixus (El-Ara'isfi). Strabo,as it appears, had no knowledge, or, at least, placedno confidence, in any information which may havereached him as to the countries more to the S. thanFezz&n. Bat if he was so ignorant of Libya, andparticularly of the position of the \V. Aethiopians(comp. p. 839), no great weight can be attached tohis testimony, that the Nigritae and Pharusii, whomhe expressly states to have been near those Aethio­pians, were only thirty journeys from Lixus, par­ticularly when he accompanies the remark with thedoubtful word <paa\, and with his marvellous storiesabout the productions of Maurctania. Ptolemy {I.e.')places them on the N. of the river Nigcir, fromwhich they took their name. It may be inferred,therefore, that they are to be sought in the interiorbetween the Quorra or Djolibd and the Sahara inthe Biledu-l-Suddn. Their chief town was calledNigeika (Nlyupa fxr)Tpovo\is, Ptol. iv. 6. § 27):the Nigritis Lacus (Nrypirtj Afft^77, § 14) maybe identified with the lake Dibbeh to the S\V. ofTimbuktu. [E. B. J.J NIGRINLA/NA. [Candidiaxa.] NIGRITIS LACUS. [Nigritae.] NIGKUS. [Mogrus.] NILI PALUDES (at toD N«Uov Ai/mu, Ptol.iv. 9, § 3; Strab. xvii. p. 786) were described bythe ancient geographers as two immense lagoons,which received the first floods of the periodical rainsthat from May to September fall upon the Abys­sinian highlands, and swell all the rivers flowingnorthward from that table-land. From these lagoonsthe Astapus (Bahr-el-Azrek, Blue Hirer) and theBahr-et-Abiad, or White Hirer, respectively derivedtheir waters; and since they were the principaltributaries of the Nile, the lakes which fed themwere termed the Nilotic Marshes. The ancientsplaced the Nili Palndes vaguely at the foot of theLuuae Montes ; and the exploring party, sent by theemperor Nero, described them to Seneca the philo­sopher as of boundless extent, covered with floatingweeds, and containing black and slimy water, im­passable either by boats or by wading. There is,however, some probability that this exploring partysaw only the series of lagoons produced by the leveland sluggish stream of the White Hirer, since thedescriptions of modern travellers in that region ac­cord closely with Seneca's narrative (ATM. Quaegt.vi. 8). The White Hirer itself, indeed, resemblesan immense lagoon. It is often from five to sevenmiles in width, and its banks are so low as to bocovered at times with slime to a distance of two orthree miles from the real channel. This river, asless remote than the Abyssinian highlands from theordinary road between Syene and the S. of Men*(aSeiwwwr), is more likely to have fallen under thenotice of Nero's explorers ; and the extent of slimywater overspread with aquatic plants, wrresponds