OCR Output AN. 519.] 395 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them leave to assist in building the temple."For," said they, "we worship your God, andespecially pray to him, and are desirous ofthe same religious settlement; and this eversince Shalnianezer, king of Assyria, trans­planted us out of Cuthah and Media to thisplace."* When they said thus, Zorobabel,and Jeshua, the high-priest, and the heads ofthe families of the Israelites replied, that itwas impossible to permit them to be theirpartners, whilst they only had been appoint­ed to build that temple at first by Cyrus, andnow by Darius :f although it was indeed law­ful for them to come and worship there, if theypleased; and that they could allow them no­thing but that in common with them. When the CutheansJ heard this, they hadindignation at it, and persuaded the nationsof Syria to desire of the governors, in thesame manner as they had done formerly in thedays of Cyrus, and in the time of Cambysesafterwards, to put a stop to the building of thetemple; and to endeavour to delay and pro­tract the Jews in their zeal about it. Now atthis time Sisinnes, the governor of Syria, andPhoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes, with certainOthers, came up to Jerusalem, and asked therulers of the Jews, by whose grant it was thatthey built the temple in this manner? sinceit was more like a citadel than a temple.And for what reason it was that they builtcloisters and walls, and those strong ones too,about the city? Zorobabel, and Jeshua the^high-priest, replied, that "they were the ser­vants of God Almighty: that this temple wasbuilt for him by a king of theirs, that lived ingreat prosperity, and one that exceeded allmen in virtue; and that it continued a longtime; but that, because of the impiety oftheir forefathers, Nebuchadnezzar, king ofthe Babylonians and of the Chaldeans, tooktheir city by force, and destroyed it, and pil­laged the temple, and burnt it down, andtransplanted the people whom he had madecaptives, and removed them to Babylon: thatCyrus, who, after him, was king of Babyloniaand Persia, wrote to them to build the tem­ple; and committed the gifts and vessels, andwhatever Nebuchadnezzar had carried oat ofit, to Zorobabel, and Mithridates, the treasu- * Ezra iv. 1, 2.t Ezra iv. 3. voL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34. rer; and gave order to have them carried toJerusalem, and to have them restored to theirown temple, when it was built. For he hadsent to them to have that done speedily; andcommanded Senabassar to go up to take careof the building of the temple. Who uponreceiving that epistle from Cyrus, came, andimmediately laid its foundations. "And al­though it hath been in building from that timeto this," said they, "it hath not yet beenfinished, by reason of the malignity of ourenemies. If therefore you think proper, writethis account to Darius; that when he hathconsulted the records of the kings, he mayfind that we have told you nothing that is falseabout this matter." When Zorobabel and the high-priest hadmade this answer, Sisinnes, and those thatwere with him, did not resolve to hinder thebuilding, until they had informed king Dariusof all this. So they immediately wrote tohim about these affairs; while the Jews wereunder terror, and afraid lest the king shouldchange his resolution, as to the building ofJerusalem, and of the temple. There were,however, two prophets at that time amongthem, Haggai and Zachariah,who encouragedthem, and bade them be of good cheer, andto suspect no discouragement from the Per­sians: for that God foretold this to them. Soin dependence on those prophets, they appli­ed themselves earnestly to building, and didnot intermit one day. Now the Samaritans, in their epistle to Da­rius, had accused the Jews of fortifying thecity, and building the temple more like acitadel than a temple; and said that theirdoings were not expedient for the king's af­fairs, and besides, they shewed the epistle ofCambyses, wherein he forbade them to buildthe temple. Darius therefore, when he un­derstood that the restoration of Jerusalem wasnot expedient for his affairs, and when he hadread the epistle that was brought him fromSisinnes, and those that were with him, gaveorder that what concerned these mattersshould be sought for among the royal records.Accordingly a book was found at Ecbatana,in the tower that was in Media, wherein waswritten as follows: "Cyrus the king, in the I Samaritans. 3U