OCR Output 52 LIVY. would wish the Samnites in possession of victory ra­ther than the Romans. He talked much of contemptof orders; as if his prohibition of fighting were notdictated by the same motive whrch caused his vexa­tion at the fight having taken place. He wished toshackle the valor of others, and meant to take awaythe soldiers' arms when they were most eager for ac­tion, and that no use might be made of them in hisabsence : he was farther enraged too, because Quin-tus Fabius considered himself as master of the horse,not as a beadle to the dictator. How would he havebehaved had the issue of the fight been unfortunate ;which, through the chances of war and the uncertaintyof military operations, might have been the case; sincenow, when the enemy has been vanquished, (as com­pletely indeed as if that leader's own singular talentshad been employed in the matter,) he yet threatensthe master of the horse with punishment ? Nor is hisrancor greater towards the master of the horse thantowards the military tribunes, towards the centurions,towards the soldiers. On all he would vent his rage ;and because that is not in his power, he vents it onone. Envy, like flame, soars upwards ; aims at thesummit, and makes its attack on the head of the busi­ness, on the leader. If he could put him out of theway, together with the glory of the service performed,he would then triumph like a conqueror over van­quished troops; and without scruple practise againstthe soldiers what he had been allowed to act againsttheir commander. It behoved them therefore in hiscause to support the general liberty of all. If thedictator perceived among the troops the same una­nimity in justifying their victory, that they had dis­played in gaining it, and that all interested themselvesin the safety of one, it would bend his temper tomilder counsels. In fine,' he told them, ' that he com­mitted his life and all his interests to their honor andto their courage.' 32. His speech was received with the loudest accla­mations from every part of the assembly, bidding him