OCR Output .322 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. merit of our adversaries. Since therefore wehave undertaken a war for obtaining the go­vernment; and have taken care to do whatwas agreeable to piety and justice: and havebrought to punishment those that had neitherany remembrance of the kindnesses theyhad received, nor had kept their oaths; Iwill that you be at peace with those that areour confederates: as also that what you havetaken by the means of our adversaries shallnot be reckoned your own, but be returnedto those from whom you took them. Fornone of them took their provinces or theirarmies by the gift of the senate; but theyseized them by force, and bestowed them byviolence upon such as became useful to themin their unjust proceedings. Since thereforethose men have received the punishment dueto them, we desire that our confederates mayretain whatsoever it was that they formerlypossessed, without disturbance: and that yourestore all the places which belonged toHyrcanus, the ethnarch of the Jews, whichyou have had, though it were but one daybefore Caius Cassius began an unjustifiablewar against us, and entered into our province.Nor do you use any force against him, in or­der to weaken him, that he may not be ableto dispose of that which is his own. But ifyou have any contest with him about yourrespective rights, it shall be lawful for you toplead your cause, when we come upon theplaces concerned. For we shall alike pre­serve the rights, and hear all the causes, ofour confederates." "Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the ma­gistrates, senate, and people of Tyre, sendethgreeting. I have sent you my decree; ofwhich 1 will that you take care that it beengraven on the public tables, in Roman andGreek letters; and that it stand engraven inthe most illustrious places; that it may beread by all. Marcus Antonius, imperator,one of the triumvirate over the public affairs,made this declaration. Since Caius Cassius,in the revolt he hath made, hath pillaged thatprovince, which belonged not to him, andwas held by garrisons there encamped; while they were our confederates; and hath spoiledthat nation of the Jews that was in friendshipwith the Roman people as in war: and sincewe have overcome his madness by arms, wenow correct by our decrees and judicial de­terminations what he hath laid waste: thatthose things may be restored to our confede­rates. And as for what hath been sold of theJewish possessions, whether they be bodiesor possessions, let them be released: thebodies into that state oi' freedom they wereoriginally in; and the possessions to theirformer owners. I also will that he who shallnot comply with this decree of miue, shallbe punished for his disobedience. And ifsuch a one be caught, I will take care thatthe offender suffer condign punishment." The same thing did Antony write to theSidonians, the Antiochians, and the Aradians.We have produced these decrees, therefore,as marks for futurity of the truth of what wehave said, that the Romans had a great con­cern about our nation. CHAP. XIII. HEROD AND PHASAELUS ARE MADE TETRARCHS, AFTERHAVING BEEN ACCUSED TO NO PURPOSE: THE PAR-THIANS BRING ANTIGONUS INTO JUDEA, AND TAREHYRCANUS AND PHASAELUS CAPTIVES: HEROD SAVESHIMSELF BY FLIGHT. WHEN Antony came into *Syria, hefell in love with queen Cleopatra,who met him in Cilicia. There came nowalso a hundred of the most potent of theJews to accuse Herod, and those about him;and set men of the greatest eloquence amongthem to speak. But Messala contradictedl hem on behalf of the young men: and this inthe presence of Hyrcanus, who was tHerod'sfather-in-law already. When Antony hadheard on both sides, at Daphne, he askedHyrcanus, who they were that governed thenation best? He replied, Herod, and hisfriends. Hereupon Antony, by reason of theold friendship he had made with his father,Antipater, when he was with Gabinius, madeboth Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, andcommitted the public affairs of the Jews to * An. 41. t We may here observe that espousals alone were ofold esteemed a sufficient foundation for affinity. Hyrcanusbeing here called father-in-law to Herod, because hisgrand-daughter Mariamne was betrothed to him; although the marriage was not completed till four years afterward.Thus does Virgil style Chorebus the son-in-law to Prk-mus, before he had actually married his daughter: Ened.II. v. 344. See the notes here; see also Matth. i. 16.with Grotius's note upon that place