OCR Output aN. 453.] 409 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. say thus much, the king was in great agonyand disorder, and encouraged Esther to beof good cheer, and to expect better fortune:since he was ready, if occasion should re­quire it, to grant to her the half of his king­dom. Accordingly Esther desired that heand his friend Haman would come to her toa banquet: for she said she had prepared asupper for him. Accordingly, he consented;and when they were there, as they weredrinking, he bade Esther tell him what shedesired; for that she should not be disap- {lointed, though she should desire the half oflis kingdom. But she put off the discovery ofher petition till the next day: if he would comeagain, together with Haman, to her banquet.*Now when the king had promised so to do,Haman went away very joyful; because healone had the honour of supping with theking, at Esther's banquet; and because noone else partook of the same honour withkings but himself. Yet when he saw Morde-cai in the court, he was very much displeased;for he paid him no manner of respect whenhe saw him. So he went home, and calledfor his wife Zeresh, and his friends; andwhen they were come, he shewed them whathonour he had enjoyed not only from theking, but from the queen also. For as healone had that day supped with her, togetherwith the king, so was he also invited againfor the next day. "Yet," said he, "I am notpleased to see Mordecai the Jew in thecourt." Hereupon his wife Zeresh advisedhim to give order, that a gallows should bemade, fifty cubits high, and that in the mor­ning he should ask it of the king, that Mor­decai might be hanged thereon. So he com­mended her advice, and gave order to hisservants to prepare the gallows, and to placeit in the court, for the punishment of Morde­cai thereon: which was accordingly pre­pared. But God laughed to scorn the wick­ed expectations of Haman: for that night he took away the king's sleep; and as the kingwas not willing to lose the time of his lyingawake, but to spend it in something thatmight be of advantage to his kingdom, hecommanded the scribe to bring him thechronicles of the former kings, and the re­cords of his own actions. And when he hadbrought them, and was reading them, onewas found to have received a country on ac­count of his excellent management on a cer­tain occasion; and the name of the countrywas set down. Another was found to havehad a present made him on account of hisfidelity. Then the scribe came to Bigthanand Teresh, the eunuchs, who had formed aconspiracy against the king; which Mordecaihad discovered. And when the scribe saidno more but that; and was going on to an­other history, the king stopped him; and in­quired, if it were not added that Mordecaihad a reward given him? And when he saidthere was no such addition, he bade himleave oflf: and he inquired of those that wereappointed for that purpose, what hour of thenight it was? And when he was informedthat it was already day, he gave order, thatif they found any one of his friends alreadycome, and standing before the court theyshould tell him. Now it happened that Ha­man was found there, for he was come soon­er than ordinary to petition the king to haveMordecai put to death.f And when the ser­vants said, that Haman was before the court,he bade them call him in. And when he wascome in, he said, "Because I know that thouart a sincere friend, I desire thee to give meadvice, how I may honour one that I greatlylove, and that after a manner suitable to mymagnificence." Now Haman reasoned withhimself, that what opinion he should give, itwould be for himself, since it was he alonewho was beloved by the king. So he gavethat advice which he thought of all other thebest. For he said, "If thou would est truly that was proper and peculiar to the king; and the queen'stouching, or, as some say, kissing it, was a token of hersubjection, and thankfulness for his favour. B. * Esther v. 8. t It may seem a little strange, that so proud a manas Haman was, should not be prompted immediately toavenge himself on Mordecai for his contemptuous usageof him, since he had enough about him, no doubt, who,upon the least intimation of his pleasure, would have done it; and since he, who had interest enough with his princeto procure a decree for the destruction of a whole nation,might easily have obtained a pardon for having killed oneobscure and infamous member of it. But herein did thewise and powerful providence of God appear, that it dis­posed Haman's heart, contrary to his own inclination andinterest, instead of employing his power against his ene­my, to put fetters, as it were, upon his own hands. PnrJ^Annotations. B.