OCR Output 636 PITYUSAE. UiTv6((T(Ta), literally, "abounding in pine-trees."1. An island oil* the promontory Scyllaeum, or Iiu-cephala, in Troezenia in Argolis. (Pans, ii. 34. § 8.)Pliny mentions (iv. 12. s. 19) an island Pityuaa inthe Argolie gulf, but from the Older in which itoccurs in Pliny,it would seem to be adherent islandfrom the preceding. 2. One of the Demonnesi in the Propontis, accord­ing to Hesychius (*. «.). [Dkmonnksi.] PITYU'SAE (UirvovaaL or Tliruovtrffai, Strab.iii. p. 167; Ptol. ii. 6. § 77). two islands onthe S. coast of Spain. 700 stadia, or nearly 100miles from Dianium (Plin. iii. 5. s. 11; Liv. xxviii.37). Their position is thus defined by Diodorus(v. 17): they arc three nights'and days'sail fromthe. Columns of Hercules, one day's sail from Iberia,and one day and night from Libya; whilst,accordingto the Itinerary (p. 511), they were 300 stadiafrom the Baleares, and 400 from Cart lias;o Spar-taria, or Ctirthatjena. The larger of the two islandswas called Kbusus {"E€uiraos, PtoL /. C.), the smaller.Opliiusa ('Otpiuvaaa, lb.); and as they are onlyseparated by a narrow strait, and as Opliiusa, fromits small size, was unimportant, they are sometimesconfounded together as one island by the ancients(Died. v. IG; Liv. I.e.; Dioscor. i. 92, &c.) Theirname of Pityusae was derived, like that of manyother ancient places, from the abundance of pine-trees which grew upon them. They were 46 milesin extent, Diodorus (I. C.) compares Kbusus withCoreyra for size; and according to Strabo (I. c.)it was 400 stadia in circumference, and of aboutequal length and breadth. It was billy in someparts, and not very fruitful, producing but little oiland wine; but its figs were good, and it affordedexcellent pasturage. Snakes and noxious animalswere not found upon it, whilst, on the contrary, thesmaller island abounded in serpents to such a de­gree that it seems to hare taken its name fromthem (Plin. iii. 14, xv. 21, xxxv. 59, &c.; Mela,ii. 7; Avicn. DtJtcr. Orb. 621, &c). The chieftown, also named Kbusus, which lay on the SE. sideof the island, was a civitas foederata, and had amint. (Ramus, Cat Sum. vet Grate, ef L<d. Mas.Reg. Amine, i. p. 13.) It was a well-built citywith a good harbour, and was the resort of manybarbarians and foreigners, especially Phoenicians.(Strab., Mela, Diod., U. cr.) The larger island isnow Iviza, the smaller, Formentara. [T. H. 1).] PLACEN'TIA (TUaworia: Etk. riacentinus:Piaeenza), a city of Gallia Cispadana,situated nearthe S. hank of the Padus, just below the point whereit receives the waters of the Trebia. It was on theVia Aemilia, of which it originally fonned the ter­mination, that road being in the first instance carriedfrom Arimtnum to Plaoentia; and was 40 miles distantfrom I'anna. We have no account of the existenceof a town on the spot previous to the establishmentof the Roman colony, which was settled there inB.C. 219, after the great Gaulish war, at the sametime with Cremona. (Liv. EpiU xx; Veil. Pat. i. 14;Pol. iii. 40; Ascoo. in Piton. p. 3.) It consistedof not less than 6000 colonists, w ith Latin rights.But the new colony was scarcely founded, and itswalls hardly completed, when the news of the ap­proach of Hannibal produced a general rising of theneighbouring Gauls, the Boians and Insubriana, whoattacked Plaoentia, ravaged its territory, and drovemany of the colonists to take refuge at Mutina; butwere unable to effect anything against the cityitself, which was still in the bands of the llomuns in the following yeof the arniv of Sdof the Trebia. (59, 63; Apptan, )the same srar, in ucolonies which proeat need, and canquota of suppliesolder colonies faileShortly after thisdrub.il, who washe had crossed tbalpine Gaul, and bvaluable time. Acompelled to abantbis march into Ita(Id. xxvii. 39, 43/fortunate, havingsudden in^urrectioiplundered and buigreater part of thexxxi. 10.) Afterrius, about 2000occasion were restyears afterwards Lat Cremona and Pfar as possible all tJthe war, (Id. xxwere still exposed ILiguriaus; and in iwaste by the Utter(Id. xxxiv. 56.) 1them, in b. c. 190,tettlers, to remedyfresh body of 300each of the old coiwhile new ones shoof the Boil (Id.later the consul M.subjection of thebrated road, which ifrom Ariminum tofrom this time theby this part of Italstate of great prosdoubt that Placenlittle of it duringappears to have be*towns of CispadarMarius and Sulla,ceutia, in which tlfeated by Lucullu(Appian, U. C. i. 9and l'ompey, b. c.mutiny broke outwhich at one timepect, and was onlyand authority of 147; Dion Cass. xlt.to have beeu at Urnmonly selected astroops in this partIt was again the attiny of the legions IWar, n. c. 41. (ICicero notices 1*1republican jeriod;rank must have bocipal condition inb. c. 90. (Cic, i;•<■>.!) But unde