OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 405 Whatever might be the grounds of his security, Al- Conquestboin neither expected nor encountered a Roman army part ofin the field. He ascended the Julian Alps, and lookedfheLom-down with contempt and desire on the fruitful plains to AarDs'568which his victory communicated the perpetual appella- 570.tion of Lombardy. A faithful chieftain, and a selectband, were stationed at Forum Julii, the modern Friuli,to guard the passes of the mountains. The Lombardsrespected the strength of Pavia, and listened to theprayers of the Trevisans: their slow and heavy multi­tudes proceeded to occupy the palace and city of Verona;and Milan, now rising from her ashes, was invested bythe powers of Alboin five months after his departurefrom Pannonia. Terror preceded his march; he foundevery where, or he left, a dreary solitude; and the pu­sillanimous Italians presumed, without a trial, that thestranger was invincible. Escaping to lakes, or rocks, ormorasses, the affrighted crowds concealed some frag­ments of their wealth, and delayed the moment of theirservitude. Paulinus, the patriarch of Aquileia, removedhis treasures, sacred and profane, to the isle of Grado,3and his successors were adopted by the infant republic ofVenice, which was continually enriched by the publiccalamities. Honoratus, who filled the chair of St. Am­brose, had credulously accepted the faithless offers of acapitulation; and the archbishop, with the clergy andnobles of Milan, were driven by the perfidy of Alboin toseek a refuge in the less accessible ramparts of Genoa.Along the maritime coast, the courage of the inhabitantswas supported by the facility of supply, the hopes of re­lief, and the power of escape; but from the Trentine hills in the last chapter of the first book, and the seven first chapters of the second book,of Paul the deacon. * Which from this translation was called New Aquileia, (Chron. Venet. p. 3.) •The patriarch of Grado soon became the first citizen of the republic, (p. 9. &c.) buthis seat was not removed to Venice till the jear 1450. He is now decorated withtitles and honours; but the genius of the churoh has bowed to that of the state, andthe government of a Catholic city is strictly presby terian. Thomassin, Discipline de TEglise, tom. 1. p. 156, 157. 161—165. Amelot de la Houssaye, Goayernementde Venise, tom. 1. p. 256—261.