OCR Output AN. 771.] 347 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. upon the golden altar. But Azariah thehigh-priest, who had eighty priests with him,affirmed that it was not lawful lor him tooffer sacrifice: and that none besides theposterity of Aaron were permitted so to do.And when they cried out, that he must goout of the temple, and not transgress againstGod, he was wroth with them, and threat­ened to kill them, unless they would holdtheir peace. In the mean time a great*earthquake shook the ground, and a rentwas made in the temple, and the bright raysof the sun shone through it; and fell uponthe king's face, insomuch that the leprosyseized upon him immediately. And beforethe city, at a place called Eroge, half themountain broke off from the rest on thewest, and rolled itself four furlongs, andstood still at the east mountain; till theroads, as well as the king's gardens, werespoiled by the obstruction. Now as soon asthe priests saw that the king's face was in­fected with the leprosy, they told him of thecalamity he was under, and commandedthat he should go out of the city as a pol­luted person. Hereupon he was so con­founded, that he did as he was commanded;and underwent this terrible and miserablepunishment for a presumptuous intention,and for that impiety against God which wasimplied therein. So he abode out of thecity for some time, and lived a private life:while his son Jotham took the govern-ment.f He died with grief and anxiety, atwhat had happened to him; when he hadlived sixty-eight years, and reigned fifty-two; J and his body was buried in his owngarden. * This account of an earthquake at Jerusalem, at thevery same time when Uzziah usurped the priest's office,and went into the sanctuary to burn incense, and of theconsequences of the earthquake, is entirely wanting inour other copies; though it be exceeding like to a pro­phecy of Jeremiah's, now in Zachariah xiv. 4, 5. Inwhich prophecy mention is made of fleeing from thatearthquake, as they fled from this earthquake in the daysof Uzziah king of Judah. So that there seems to havebeen some considerable resemblance between these his­torical and prophetical earthquakes. But whether Jose-pbus interpreted this prophecy as a history; or whethera parallel has been dropped in our other copies, cannotbe determined. t 2 Kings xv. 5. | From an. 811 to 759. II God had promised Jehu, that for executing his will voI,. I.—NOS. 29 & 30. CHAP. XI. OF THE REIGNS OF ZACHARIAH, SHALLUM, MENAHEM, TEKA-HIAH, AND PEKAH J AND OF THE EXPEDITION OF PUL, ANDTICLATH-PILESER AGAINST THE ISRAELITES. ALSO OF1'THE AFFAIRS OF JOTHAM, KING OF JUDAH J AND THEPROPHECY OF NAHUM AGAINST THE ASSYRIANS. WHEN Zachariah,|| the son of Jero­boam, had reigned six months overIsrael, he was slain by the treachery ofShallum, the son of Jabesh; who took thekingdom afterward, but kept it no longerthan thirty days. For Menahem, the gene­ral of his army, who was at that time in thecity Tirzah, and heard of what had befallenZachariah, removed with all his forces toSamaria; and joining battle with Shallumslew him; and when he had made himselfking, he went thence, and came to the cityTiphsah. The citizens shut their gates, andbarred them against the king; and would notadmit him. But in order to be avenged onthem, he burnt the adjacent country, andtook the city by storm; and being verymuch displeased at what the inhabitants ofTiphsah had done, he slew them all, andspared not so much as the infants: withoutomitting the utmost instances of cruelty andbarbarity. For he used such severity uponhis own countrymen, as would not be par­donable with regard to strangers, who hadbeen conquered by him. And after thismanner it was that this Menahem continuedto reign with cruelty and barbarity for tenyears.§ But when Pul, king of Assyria, hadmade an expedition against him, he did notventure an engagement; but he persuadedhim to accept of a thousand talents of silver, upon the house of Ahab, he would continue the crownof Israel in his family for four generations; and accord­ingly Jehoahaz, Joash, Jehoram, and Zachariah suc­ceeded him; but because he did it not so much in obe­dience to the divine command, as to satisfy his privateand ambitious views, and in a method of cruelty quite ab­horrent to the divine nature, God cut his family short, assoon as he had fulfilled his promise to him, and therebyaccomplished the prophecy of Hosea; I will avenge theblood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will causeto cease the kingdom of the house of Israel, chap. i. 4.and perhaps it was in remembrance of this prophecy, aswell as of the promise which confined the kingdom inJehu's family to four generations only, 2 Kings xv. 10. thatShallum was encouraged to attempt the life of Zacha­riah. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.§ From an. 772 to 762. 30