OCR Output 360 THK DECLINE AND FALL chap. considered these alarming strokes as,the prelude onlyXXI, of still more dreadful calamities, and their fearfulvanity was disposed to confound the symptoms of adeclining empire,.and a sinking world*. In the disastrous period of the fall of the Romanempire, which may justly be dated from the reign ofValens, the happiness and security of each individualwere personally attacked; and the arts and laboursof ages were rudely defaced by the Barbarians ofThe Hun? Scythia and Germany. The invasion of the Hunsa^w' Precipitate<lon tne provinces of the West the Gothicnation, which advanced, in less than forty years, fromthe Danube to the Atlantic, and opened a way, bythe success of their arms, to the inroads of so manyhostile tribes, more savage than themselves.Their con- It is impossible to fill the dark interval of time,Aiani.°f the which elapsed, after the Huns of the Volga were lostin the eyes of the Chinese; and before they showedthemselves to those of the Romans. There is somereason, however, to apprehend, that the same forcewhich had driven them from their native seats stillcontinued to impel their march towards the frontiersof Europe. The power of the Sienpi, their implaca­ble enemies, which extended above three thousandmiles from East to West, must have gradually op­pressed them by the weight and terror of a formidableneighbourhood; and the flight of the tribes of Scy­thia would inevitably tend to increase the strength, orto contract the territories, of the Huns. The harshand obscure appellations of those tribes would offendthe ear, without informing the understanding, of thereader •, but I cannot suppress the very natural sus­picion, that the Huns of the North derived a consi- * The earthquakes and inundations are variously described by Libanius, (Orat.de ulciscenda Juliani nece, c. x. in Fabricius, Biol. Graec. torn. vii. p. 158, witha learned note of Olearius), Zosimus (1. iv. p. 221), Sozomen (1. vi. c. 2),Cedrenus (p. 310. 314\ and Jerom (in Chron. p. 186. and torn. i. p. 250. in'Vit , Hilarion.)