OCR Output #56 WARS OF THE JEWS'. Book 1, As soon as ever Autipater heard that, he took courage, and withjoy in his looks, besought his keepers, for a sum of money, toloose him and let him go; but the principal keeper of the prisondid not only obstruct him in that his intention, but ran and toldthe king what his design was; hereupon the king cried outlouder than his distemper would well bear, and immediatelysent some of his guards and slew Antipater; he also gave orderto have him buried at Hyrcanium, and altered his testamentagain, and therein made Archelaus his eldest son, and the bro­ther of Antipas, his successor, and made Antipas tetrarch. 8. So Herod having survived the slaughter of his sou five days,died, having reigned thirty-four years, since he had caused An-tigonus to be slain, and obtained his kingdom; but thirty-seven;years since he had been made king by the Romans. Now as forhis fortune, it was prosperous in all other respects, if ever anyother man could be so, since, from aprivate man, he obtained thekingdom, and kept it so long, and left it to his own sons ; butstill in his domestic affairs, he was a most unfortunate man.Now before the soldiers knew of his death, Salome and her hus­band came out and dismissed those that were in bonds, whom theking had commanded tobe slain, and told them that he had alter­ed his mind, and would have every one of them sent to their ownhomes. When these men were gone, Salome told the soldiers-[the king was dead}, and got them and the rest of the multitudetogether to an assembly, in the ar -phitheatre at Jericho, wherePtolemy, who was intrusted by the king with his signet-ring,came before them, and spake of the happiness the king had at­tained, and comforted the multitude, and read the epistle whichhad been left for the soldiers, wherein he earnestly exhorted themto bear good-will to his successor; and after he had read the e-pistle, he opened and read his testament, wherein Philip was toinherit Trachonitis, and the neighbouring countries, and Antipaswas to be tetrarch, as we said before, and Archelaus was madeking. He had^also been commanded to carry Herod's ring toCaesar, andthe settlements he had made.sealed up,because Caesarwas to be lord of all the settlements he had made, and was to con­firm his testament; and he ordered that the dispositions he hadmade were to be kept as they were in his former testament. 9. So there was an acclamation made to Archelaus, to congra­tulate him upon his advancement, and the soldiers, with the mul­titude, went round about in troops, and promised him their goodwill, and besides, prayed God to bless his government. Afterthis, they betook shemselves to prepare for the king's funeral;and Archelaus omitted :.othing of magnificence therein, butbrought out all the royal ornaments to augment the pomp of the deceased.