OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 249 the senate ratified and approved it.' They then or­dered the pretor to prepare the following presents forthe king:—two purple rohes with a golden clasp andvests, with broad purple borders; two horses withtrappings; two suits of horseman's armor, with coatsof mail; with tents and camp furniture, such as iscustomary to provide for a consul. Donatives werealso voted for the ambassadors, not less than five thou­sand asses i to each; for their attendants a thousandasses;2 two suits of apparel to each of the ambassa­dors, one to each of their attendants, and the same tothe Numidians, who were to be freed from imprison­ment, and sent back to the king. Besides which, theyordered intire suites of apartments and entertainmentfor the embassy. 18. In the course of the summer, during which thosetransactions passed in Africa, and these decrees atRome, Publius Quintilius Varus, pretor, and MarcusCornelius, proconsul, fought a pitched battle with Ma-go the Carthaginian, in the country of the InsubrianGauls. The pretor's legions were in the first line;Cornelius kept his in reserve, placing himself in thefront. The pretor and proconsul exhorted the soldiersto make the attack with the utmost vigor. Findingthat they made no impression on the Carthaginianline, Quintilius said to Cornelius, ' The battle flags, asyou may perceive; and the enemy, finding themselvesable to make resistance beyond what they had hoped,are hardened against fear, and it is well if they do notassume boldness: we must bear down with the ca­valry, if we expect to disorder or drive them fromtheir ground. Do you therefore support the battle infront, and I will bring up the horse; or I will takecare of matters here, while you charge with the ca­valry of the four legions.' The proconsul offering toundertake either part of the business, as the pretorshould direct, Quintilius the pretor, with his son Mar­cus, a youth of a high and ardent spirit, took the com- i 16/. 2s, lid. 2 SI. 4s. 7d.