OCR Output 614 PHOENICIA,PHOENICIA. of Ascalon, and the emigration <>f its inhabitants, asalready related, Tyre became dominant, and retainedthe supremacy till the Persian conquest. Confede­rations among the Phoenician cities for some commonobject were frequent, ami are mentioned by Joshuaas early as the time of Moses (xi.). Subsequently,the great council of the Phoenician! assembled onthe.se occasions at Tripolis (Diod.xvi. 41), where, aswe have already said, the three leading towns,Sidon, Tyre, mid Aradus, had each its separatequarter; from which circumstance, the town derivedits name. Aradus, however, does not appear tohave obtained this privilege till a late period ofPhoenician history, as in the time of Ezekiel it wassubordinate to Tyre (xxvii. S. sqq.); and Byblus,though it had its own king, and i» sometimes men­tioned as furnishing mariners, seems never to havehad a voice in the confederate councils. The popu­lation of Phoenicia consisted in great part of slaves.Its military force, as might be supposed from thenature of the country, was chietly naval; and inorder to defend themselves from the attacks of theAssyrians and Persians, the Phoenicians were com­pelled to employ mercenary troops, who were perhapsmostly Africans. (Died. L c.; EzekUl, xxvii.) VI. Religion. The nature of the Phoenician religion can only begathered from incidental allusions in the Greek andRoman writers, anil in the Scriptures. A few coinsand idols have been found in Cyprus, but connectedonly with the local Phoenician religion in thatisland. 'Die most systematic account will lw foundin the Profpumt'to E9tmgetiea of E use bins, wherethen are extracts from Nanemiiatho, professed tohave been tramdated into Greek by Phiio of ByMus.It would be too long to enter here into his fancifulcosmogony, which was of an atheistic nature, andwas character Lied chielly by a personification of theelements. From the wind K»>l-pta, and litutu. hiswife, were produced Aeon and Protogonus, the firstmortals. These had three suns, Light, Fire, andFlame, who produced a race ofgiants from whom themountains were named, — as Capitis, Libanus, Anti-Jibatius and Brat by,— and who with their descend­ants discovered the various arts of life. In latertimes a human origin was assigned to the giids, thati*, they were regarded as deified men; and this newtheology was absurdly grafted on the old cosmogony.Elinn and his wife Beruth are their progenitors,who dwelt near By blue. From EHun descendsOuranos (Heaven), who weds his sister lie (Earth),and has by her four sons, I his (or Cronos), IWtutus,Dagon. and Atlas; and three daughters, Astarte,Hiiea. and Dione, Croni-s, grown to man's estate,deposes his father, and puts to death his own sonSadid, and one of his daughters. Ouranos, returningfrom banishment, is treachero-isly put to death byCmuos, who afterwards travels about the world,establishing Athena in Attica and making Tautking of Egypt. (Kenrick, PhotM, p. 295.) Baal and Ashtaroth, the two chief divinities ofPhoenicia, were the sun and moon. The name ofllaal was applied to Phoenician kings, and Belus isthe first king of Assyria and Phoenicia. At a laterperiod Baal became a distinct supreme God, and thesun obtained a separate worrdiip(2 Kings* xxiii. 5).As the. supreme god, the Greeks and Komaus iden­tified him with their Zeus, or Jupiter, and not withApollo. Bel or Baal was also identified with the planetSaturn. We find his name prefixed to that of other deities, as BsaJ-Pbegor, the god of ucerissBBB,Uaal-Zebub, the god of flies, Ate; as well tetatbUof many placed in which he had tempie*, *BuJ>Gad, Baal-Hamon, &c. Groves on elevated jumwere dedicated to his worship, and human tkusswere sometimes offered to him aa well as to Masts.(Jtrem. xix. 4, 5.) He was worshipped with Cys­tica! rites, his votaries crying aloud, and cvRafthemselves with knives and lancets. A&btsrotk*Astarte, the principal female divinity, was ktouaslby the Greeks and Komaus sometimes with Jaa\sometimes with Venus, though properly and avginally she represented the moon. Tbe phBdjslseat of her worship was Sidon. She w« >ymbalasiby a heifer, or a figure with a heifers bead, as)horns resembling the cresceot moon. Tbe tana atAstarte was Phoenician (Pa. Locian, de I'm j»c. 4); but she does not appear wiLh that a[>jeflsSiiu the early Greek writers, who regard Apfcmsstor Venus Urania, as the principal Pbwnicaa pidess. Herodotus (i. 105, 131, iii. 8) says that atworship was transferred from Ascalon, in iseat, to Cyprus and Cythera,and identifies herithe Babylonian Mylitta, the character of whose iship wss unequivocal. Her orginal image cr^bol, like that of many of the oldest deities, iconical stone, as in the case of the Paphnn Vs(Tac. II. ii. 3.; Max. Tyr. Diss. 38), of the f"of Pessinus (Liv. xxix. 11), and others. InCyjher worship degenerated into licentiousness, satfCyprian coins bear the primitive image of theestone. In Carthage, on the contrary, she ias a virgin, with martial attributes, and wmt sishipped with severe rites. She must be distiacaisafrom Atargatia, or IX-rceto, who hj*d also a msJat Ascalon, and was represented as half wavlhalf fish. It is characteristic of the relqpoa enPhoenicians, that though they adored fas* ■they were not so much idolaters as lite h^puslGreeks, nnd Rmnans, since their temple* had Ino representation of the deity, or uoly a rcieSjbol. The worship of Astarte seems to hawfirst corrupted at Babylon. Adonis, who Iwounded by the boar on Lebanon, wasat Aphaca, about 7 miles E. of Bybloa, isource of the stream which bear* hiswhich was said to be annually reddenedblood. (Zosim. i. 58; IV Lucian, tit iMa &By the Phoenicians Adonis was also regansun, and his death typified the winter. His IAphaca, when abolished by Cun»Latitio«, iluted with every sjecies of abowiuatiun.V. Const, iii. 55.) Cronos, or Saturn, is said by tbe GhLatin writers to have been one of lh«I'll enician deities, but tl in not easy to dltjIHuman victims formed the mot* striking leihis worship; but he was an epicure delplease, and the most acceptable uffei us£ <child. (Porphyr. de Abt. \L 56;Const, i. 4.) His image was of bix14), and, according to the description «f ]resembled that of Moloch or Milcwn,the Ammonites; but human sacrifice*to several Phoenician deities. The gods hitherto described'the Phoenicians; slelkarth*, who * It is singular that the name of „backwards is, with the exception of Lbelast letters, ideuticsl with Heracles.