OCR Output 392 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. / willing to forsake what we have, that wemay enjoy her beauty, and procure it toourselves. We also leave father and mo­ther, and the earth that nourishes us, andfrequently forget our dearest friends, for thesake of women. Nay, we are so hardy asto lay down our lives for them. But whatwill chieily make you take notice of thestrength of women is this that follows. Donot we take pains, and endure a great dealof trouble, and that both by land and sea,and when we have procured somewhat asthe fruit of our labours, do not we bringthem to the women, as to our mistresses,and bestow them upon them? Nay, I oncesaw the king, who is lord of so many people,smitten on the face by Apame, the daughterof Rabsaces Themasius, his concubine; andhis diadem taken away from him, and putupon her own head; while he bore it pa­tiently: and when she smiled he smiled, andwhen she was angry he was sad; and ac­cording to the change of her passions, heflattered her, and drew her to reconciliationby the great humiliation of himself, if at anytime he saw her displeased." And when the princes and rulers lookedone upon another, Zorobabel began to speakabout truth: and he said, "I have already de­monstrated how powerful women are. Butboth these women and the king are weakerthan truth. For although the earth be large,and the heaven high, and the course of thesun swift, yet are all these moved accordingto the will of God, who is true and righteous.For which cause we ought also to esteemtruth to be the strongest of all things, andthat what is unrighteous is of no force againstit. Moreover all things that have any strengthare mortal, and short lived, but truth is a thingthat is immortal, and eternal. It affords us not indeed such a beauty as will wither awayby time, nor such riches as may be takenaway by fortune; but righteous rules andlaws. It distinguishes them from injustice,and puts what is unrighteous to rebuke."* So when Zorobabel had left oft' his dis­course about truth, and the multitude hadcried out aloud, that he had spoken the mostwisely, and that it was truth alone that hadimmutable strength, and such as never wouldwax old; the king commanded, that he shouldask for somewhat over and above what hehad promised; for that he would give it him;because of his wisdom, and that prudencewherein he exceeded the rest. "And thouslialt sit with me," said the king, "and shaltbe called my cousin." When he had saidthis, Zorobabel reminded him of the vow hehad made, in case he should ever have thekingdom. Now this vow was, to rebuild Je­rusalem, and to build therein the temple ofGod; as also to restore the vessels whichNebuchadnezzar, had pillaged, and carriedto Babylon. "And this," said he, "is thatrequest which thou now permiltest me tomake, on account that I have been judgedto be wise, and to have understanding." So the king was pleased with what he said,and arose, and kissed him; and wrote to thetoparchs and governors; and enjoined themto conduct Zorobabel, and those that weregoing with him to build the temple. He alsosent letters to those rulers that were in Syriaand Phoenicia, to cut down and carry cedartrees from Lebanon to Jerusalem; and to as­sist him in building the city. He also wroteto them, that all the captives who should goto Judea should be free: and he prohibitedhis deputies and governors from imposing anyking's taxes upon the Jews. He also per­mitted, that they should have all that land * The reader is to note, that although the speeches orpapers of these three of the king's guard, are much thesame in our third Book of Esdras, chap. iii. and iv. asthey are in Josephus; yet the introduction of them is en­tirely different. While in our Esdras the whole is relatedas the contrivance of the three of the king's guard them­selves: and even the mighty rewards are spoken of asproposed by themselves, and the speeches arc related tohave been delivered by themselves to the king in writing.While all is contrary in Josephus. I need not say whoseaccount is nost probable. The matters speak for them­selves; and there can be no doubt but Josephus's historyis here to be very much preferred before the other. Norindeed does it seem to me at all unlikely, that the whole was a contrivance of king Darius's, in order to be de -cently and inoffensively put in mind by Zorobabel, offulfilling his old vow for the rebuilding of Jerusalem, andthe temple, and the restoration of the worship of theOne True God there. Nor does the full meaning of Zo­robabel, when he cries out, 3 Esdras iv. 40. "Blessedbe the God of truth:" and here, "God is true and righ­teous:" or of even all the people, 3 Esdras iv. 41. "Godis truth, and mighty above all things," seem to me muchdifferent from this, there is but One True God, the Godof Israel. To which doctrine, such as Cyrus, Darius,&c. those great patrons of the Jews, seem not to havebeen very averse; though the entire idolatry of theirkingdom made them generally conceal it.