OCR Output 80 ROMAN EMPIRE. with hasty violence the liturgy of Rome and the inqui­sition of Portugal. He condemned the ancient prac­tice of circumcision, which health rather than supersti­tion had first invented in the climate of jEthiopia.y Anew baptism, a new ordination, was inflicted on thenatives; and they trembled with horror when the mostholy of the dead were torn from their graves, when themost illustrious of the living were excommunicated bya foreign priest. In the defence of their religion andliberty, the Abyssinians rose in arms, with desperatebut unsuccessful zeal. Five rebellions were extin­guished in the blood of the insurgents: two abunaswere slain in battle, whole legions were slaughtered inthe field, or suffocated in their caverns; and neithermerit, nor rank, nor sex, could save from an ignomini­ous death the enemies of Rome. But the victoriousmonarch was finally subdued by the constancy of thenation, of his mother, of his son, and of his most faith­ful friends. Segued listened to the voice of pity, ofreason, perhaps of fear; and his edict of liberty of con­science instantly revealed the tyranny and weakness ofthe Jesuits. On the death of his father, Basilides ex­pelled the Latin patriarch, and restored to the wishesof the nation the faith and the discipline of Egypt.Final ex. ^e Monophysite churches resounded with apuision of song of triumph, that the sheep of ^Ethiopiaits.A.o. were now delivered from the hyaenas of the west;less, c. and the ga^es 0£ thgj solitary realm were for ever shut against the arts, the science, and the fanati­cism of Europe/ J I am aware how tender is the question of circumcision. Yet I will affirm,1. That the Ethiopians have a physical reason for the circumcision of males, andeven ef females. (Recherches Philosophiques sur les Americains, torn. 2.) 2.That it was practised in Ethiopia long before the introduction of Judaism, orChristianity. (Herodot. lib. t. c. 104. Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 72, 73.)"Infantes circumcidunt ob consuetudinem non ob Judaismum," says Gregory theAbyssinian priest, (apud Fabric. Lux Christiana, p. 720.) Yet, in the heat of dis-pute, the Portuguese were sometimes branded with the name of uncircumcised.(La Croze, p. 80. Ludolph. Hist. Comment, lib. 3. c. 1.) * The three protestant historians, Ludolphus (Hist. Ethiopia, Francofoit,1681; Commentarius, 1691; Relatio Nova, &c. 1693, in folio); Geddes (ChurchHistory of ^Ethiopia, London, 1696, in octavo), and La Croze (Hist, du Chrbrti­