OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Sh9 were destitute both of methods of cure and of food, made thepestilential distemper, which began after a violent manner, themore lasting. The destruction of men also after such a mannerdeprived those that survived of all their courage, because they hadno way to provide remedies sufficient for the distresses they werein. \Vhen therefore the fruits of that year were spoiled, andwhatsoever they had laid up beforehand was spent, there wasno foundation of hope for relief remaining, but the misery, con­trary to what they expected, still increased upon them; and thisnot only at that year, while they had nothing for themselves left[at the end of it,] but what seed they had sown perished also,by reason of the ground not yieldingits fruitson the * second year.This distress they were in made them also, out of necessity, to eatmany things that did not use to be eaten; nor, was the king him­self free from this distress any more than other men, as beingdeprived of that tribute he used to have from the fruits of theground, and having already expended what money he had, in hisliberality to those whose cities he had built; nor had he anypeople that were worthy of his assistance, since this miserablestate of things had procured him the hatred of his subjects, forit is a constant rule, that misfortunes are still laid to the accountof those that govern. 2. In these circumstances he considered with himself how toprocure some seasonable help; but this was a hard thing to bedone, while their neighbours had no food to sell them, and theirmoney also was gone, had it been possible to purchase a littlefood at a great price. However, he thought it his best way, byall means, not to leave off his endeavours to assist his people; sohe cut off the rich furniture that was in his palace, both of silverand gold, insomuch that he did not spare the finest vessels he had,or those that were made with the most elaborate skill of the ai -tificers, but sent the money to Petronius, who had been madeprefect of Egypt by Caesar; and as not a few had already fled to himunder their necessities, and as he was particularly a friend to He­ * This famine that for two years affected Judea and Syria, the 13th and 14th yearsof Herod, which ave the 23d and 24th years before the Christian era, seems to havebeen more terrible during this time than was that in the days of Jacob, Gen. xli, xlii.And what makes the comparison the more remarkable is this, that now as well asthen, the relief they had was from Egypt also; then from Joseph the governoi otEgypt, under Pharaoh king of Egypt, and now from Petronius the prefect ofEgypt, under Augustus the Roman emperor. See almost the like case, Antiq. B.XX. chap. ii. sect. 6. vol. III. It is also well worth our observation here, that these twoyears were a sabbatic year, and a y«ar of jubilee, for which Providence, during thetheocracy, used to provide a treple crop beforehand, but became now, when theJews had forfeited that blessing, the greatest years of famine to them ever since thedays of Ahab, 1 Kings xvii, xviii.