OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL be applied to the slaughter of unbelievers; and he piously laboured to establishwith fire and sword the unity of the Christian faith.(l) With these sentiments, it was incumbent on him, at least, to be always in theright. In the first years of his administration, he signalized his zeal as the disci­ple and patron of orthodoxy: the reconciliation of the Greeks and Latins es­tablished the tome of St. Leo, as the creed of the emperor and the empire; theNestorians and Eutychians were exposed, on either side, to the double edge ofpersecution; and the four synods of Nice, Constantinople, Ephesus, and Chalcedony■were ratified by the code of a catholic lawgiver. (2) But while Justinian strove tomaintain the uniformity of faith and worship, his wife Theodora, whose viceswere not incompatible with devotion, had listened to the Monophysite teachers;and the open or clandestine enemies of the church revived and multiplied at thesmile of their gracious patroness. The capital, the palace, the nuptial bed, weretorn by spiritual discord: yet so doubtful was the sincerity of the royal consorts,that their seeming disagreement was imputed by many to a secret and mischievousconfederacy against the religion and happiness of their people. (3) The famousdispute of the three chapters,(4) which has filled more volumes than it de­serves lines, is deeply marked with this subtle and disingenuous spirit. It wasnow three hundred years since the body of Origen(5) had been eaten by theworms: his soul, of which he held the pre-existence, was in the hands of its Cre­ator, but his writings were eagerly perused by the monks of Palestine. In thesewritings, the piercing eye of Justinian descried more than ten metaphysical errors;and the primitive doctor, in the company of Pythagoras and Plato, was devotedby the clergy to the eternity of hell-fire, which he had presumed to deny. Underthe cover of this precedent, a treacherous blow was aimed at the council ofChalcedon. The fathers had listened without impatience to the praise of Theo­dore of Mopsuestia;(6) and their justice or indulgence had restored both Theo-doret of Cyrrhus, and Ibas of Edessa, to the communion of the church. But thecharacters of these oriental bishops were tainted with the reproach of heresy; thefirst had been the master, the two others were the friends of Nestorius: their mostsuspicious passages were accused under the title of the three chapters; and thecondemnation of their memory must involve the honour of a synod, whose name waspronounced with sincere or affected reverence by the catholic world. If thesebishops, whether innocent or guilty, were annihilated in the sleep of death, theywould not probably be awakened by the clamour, which after a hundred yearswas raised over their grave. If they were already in the fangs of the demon,their torments could neither be aggravated nor assuaged by human industry. Ifin the company of saints and angels they enjoyed the rewards of piety, they musthave smiled at the idle fury of the theological insects who still crawled on thesurface of the earth. The foremost of these insects, the emperor of the Romans,darted his sting, and distilled his venom, perhaps without discerning the true mo­tives of Theodora and her ecclesiastical faction. The victims were no longersubject to his power, and the vehement style nf his edicts could only proclaimtheir damnation, and invite.the clergy of the east to join in a full chorus of cursesand anathemas. The east, with some hesitation, consented to the voice of hersovereign.- the fifth general council, of three patriarchs and one hundred and sixty-five bishops, was held at Constantinople; and the authors as well as the defenders, (1) The expression of Procopius is remarkable: co yap ot $Soxai e>ovi; utGpwrmv f*vai, wye p* r*; kutou Josh; TtA-nmoms rvjgotiv ovrtg. Anecdot. c. 13. (2) See the Chronicle of Victor, p. 328, and the original evidence of the lavs of Justinian. During the firstyears of his reign, Baronius himself is in extreme good humour with the emperor, who courted the popes,till he got them into bis power. (3) Procopius, Anecdot. e. 13. Evagrius, lib. iv. c. 10. If the ecclesiastical never read the sacred historian,their common suspicion proves at least the general hatred. (4) On the subject of the three chapters, the original acts of the fifth general council of Constantinoplesupply much useless though authentic knowledge. (Concil. torn. vi. p. t—419.) The Greek Evagrius is lesscopious and correct (lib. iv. c. 38.) than the three zealous Africans, Facundus, (in his twelve books de tribustapitutca, which are most enrrectly published by Sirmond) Liberatus, (in his Breviarum, c. 22—24.) and VictorTunnensis in his Chronicle, (m torn, i. Antiq. Lect. Canisii. p. 330—S34.) The Liber Pontificalis, or Anasta-sius (in Vigilio, Pelagio, &c.) is original Italian evidence. The modern reader will derive lorae informationfrom Dupin (Bibliot, Eccles. torn. v. p. 189—207.) and Basnage; (Hist, de 1'Eglise, torn. i. p. 519—541.( yet thelatter is too firmly resolved to depreciate the authority and character of the pones. (5) Ongen had indeed too great a propensity to imitate the irt.au and fu«ri6ii« of the old philosophers.(Justinian ad Mennam, in Concil. torn. vi. p. 356.) His moderate opinions were too repugnant to the zeal ofthe church, and he was found guilty of the heresy of reason. (8) Basnage (Prefat. p. 11—14. ad torn. i. Antiq. Lect. Canis.) has fairly weighed the guilt and innocence ofineoaoreot Mopinestia. If he composed ten thousand volumes, as many errors would be a charitable al­lowance. In all the subsequent catalogues of heresiarchs, he alone, without his two brethren, is ' " ' 'and it is the duty of Aiseman (Bibliot. Orient, torn. iv. p. 203—207.) to justify the sentence.