OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 163 interior of Africa were received as free allies into thenumber of the independent nations that had treaties with ^,Home. Of greater importance than this regulation of African Political reclientship were the political consequences of the Jugurthine slllts-war or rather of the Jugurthine insurrection, althoughthese have been frequently estimated too highly. Certainlyall the evils of the government were therein brought tolight in all their nakedness; it was not merely notorious but,so to speak, judicially established, that among the govern­ing lords of Some everything was treated as venal—the treatyof peace and the right of intercession, the rampart of thecamp and the life of the soldier; the African had said nomore than the simple truth, when on his departure fromRome he declared that, if he had only gold enough, he wouldundertake to buy the city itself. But the whole externaland internal government of this period bore the same stampof miserable baseness. In our case the accidental fact, thatthe war in Africa is brought nearer to us by means of betteraccounts than the other contemporary military and politicalevents, shifts the true perspective; contemporaries learnedby these revelations nothing but what everybody knew longbefore and every intrepid patriot had long been in a posi­tion to support by facts. The circumstance, however, thatthey were now furnished with some fresh, still stronger andstill more irrefutable, proofs of the baseness of the restoredsenatorial government—a baseness only surpassed by itsincapacity—might have been of importance, had there beenan opposition and a public opinion with which the govern­ment would have found it necessary to come to terms. But Bekk., and confirmed by an inscription of Carthagena (Orell. 630), whichcalls him king and father of Hiempsal II. That on the east the frontier rela­tions subsisting between Numidia on the one hand and Roman Africa andCvrene on the other remained unchanged, is shown by Caesar (B. C. ii. 38 B.Afr. 43, 77) and by the later provincial constitution. On the other hand thenature of the case implied, and Sallust (c. 97, 102, 111) indicates, that thekingdom of Bocchus was considerably enlarged; with which is undoubtedlyconnected the fact, that Mauretania, originally restricted to the region ofTingis (Morocco), afterwards extended to the region of Caesarea (province ofAlgiers) and to that of Sitifis (western half of the province of Constantine).As Mauretania was twice enlarged by the Romans, first in 649 after Jugur- 105.tha's surrender, then in 708 after the breaking up of the Numidian kingdom, 4tt. it is probable that the region of Caesarea was added on the first, and that ofSitifis on the second augmentation.