OCR Output 30 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. suffered an eclipse, and storms and tempests burstfrom the angry elements. The guilt of the army wasthe cause of all. To avert impending vengeance, theonly expedient was to depart at once from a vile, in­auspicious camp, the scene of so many crimes, and,by due atonement, expiate their past offences in theirwinter quarters. In this persuasion the eighth legiondeparted; the fifteenth followed; while the ninth re­mained behind,'declaring aloud that they would waitfor orders from Tiberius: but they soon saw them­selves deserted, and therefore struck their tents, wil­ling to do by choice what in a little time would be anact of necessity. Peace and good order being thusrestored, Drusus judged it unnecessary to wait tillthe return of the deputies, and immediately set offfor Rome. XXXI. About the same time, and from the samecauses, another sedition broke out among the legionsin Germany, supported by greater numbers, and everyway more alarming. The leaders of the mutiny flat­tered themselves that Germanicus, impatient of a newmaster, would resign himself to the will of the legions,and in that case they had no doubt but that everything would fall before him. Two armies in thatjuncture were formed on the banks of the Rhine; onein Upper Germany, commanded by Caius Silius; theother in Lower Germany under Aulus Csecina. Bothwere subordinate to Germanicus, the commander inchief, who was then in Gaul, holding the assembly ofthe states, and collecting the revenues of that nation.The forces under Silius had not as yet revolted: un­decided, wavering, and cautious, they judged it pru­dent to wait the issue of the mutiny begun by others.In Csecina's camp on the Lower Rhine the flame ofdiscord was kindled to the utmost fury. The one-and-twentieth and fifth legions began the insurrection;the first and the twentieth followed their example:they were all stationed together in a summer campon the confines of the Ubians. The campaign was in­active ; and as the calls of duty were slight, the timeof course was passed in repose and indolence. New levies from Rome, the refuse of that city, had