OCR Output 370 MORGANTIA. MOrsiUM. It is 24 It P. from Vapincum to Mora Seleuctis,and 26 M. P. from Moils Selcucus to Lucus i / ■■■ ).The Jerusalem It in. has two Mutationes (Ad Fines,and Davianutn) between Vapincum and the MansioMons Seleucus, and the whole distance is 31 M. P.The distances would not settle the position of MonsSeleucus, but the name is preserved in Stilion. TheBati Mont >'•'■'■ "ii is only an abbreviation of theBiutula Alontit Stleuci, a name that appears insome of the old documents of Dauphini'. Manyremains exist or did exist at Mons Seleucus; certainevidence that there was a Koman town here. M:igncntius was defeated a. i). 353 by Constantiusat Mons Seleucus. (Tillemont, Hutoire de* Ein-pcreura, vol. iv. p. 383 ) The memory of the Iwtllch preserved in several local names, as Le ChampVImptirig, and /-- Champ Batailles. (Ukert, Gal­ium, p. 448.) [G. L.] MU'PSIUM (Mo'd-iov: Eth. Mo+um, Steph. B.,M4nii'f) a dialectic form of Mot^ict'rs), a town ofPclasgiotis in Thessaly, situated upon a hill of thesame name, which, according to I.ivy, was situatedmidway between Larissa and Tempe. Its ruins arestill conspicuous in the situation meutioned by I.ivy,near the northern end of the lake Karatjair orKcssonis. (Steph. B. *. V.; Strab. ix. pp. 441, 443;Liv. xlii. 61, 67; Leake, Northern Greece, voL in.p. 377.) MOPSO'PIA. [Pamphyua.]M< 'I'-il'i'iA (Moifioirla), an ancient name ofAttica, derived from the hero Mopsopus or Mopsops.(Strab. iv. p. 397; Lyeophr. 1339; Steph. B. «.r.)MOPSUCRE'NE (MiiJ/ou Kpnjini), a town in theeastern part of Cilicia, on the river Cydnus, and notfar from the frontier of Cataonia to which Ptolemy(v. 7. § 7), in fact, assigns it. Its site was on thesouthern slope of Mount Taunts, and in the neigh­bourhood of the mountain pass leading from Ciliciainto Cappadocia, twelve miles north of Tarsus. Itis celebrated in history as the place where the em­peror Constantius died, A. D. 361. (Sozom. T. 1;Philostorg. vi. 5 ; Eutrop. x. 7; Amm. Mire. xxi. 29;/(in. Ant p. 145, where it is called Namsucrone;It. IIiti <:<. p. 579, where its name is mutilated intoMansvrrine.) MOPSUE'STIA (Mifyou iarta or Mmpovtaria:Eth. Mo^forjjj). a considerable town in the extremeeast of Cilicia, on the river Pyramus, and on theroad from Tarsus to Issus. In the earlier writersthe town is not mentioned, though it traced itsorigin to the ancient soothsayer Mopsas; but Pliny(v. 22), who calls it Mopsos, states that inhis time it was a free town. (Comp. Strab. xjv.p. 676; Cic. ad Earn. iii. 8; Steph. B. .<. r.;Procop. de AeiL v. 5: Amm. Mare. xiv. 8.; Phot.Cod. 176; l'tol. v. 8. § 7; It Ant. p. 705; Hicrocl.p. 705; It. Hierot. p. 680, where it is called Man-sista.) A splendid bridge across the Pyramus wasbuilt at Mopsuestia by the emperor Constantius.(Mulula, Chron. xiii.) It was situated otUy 12miles from the coast, in a fertile plain, called 'AAifiorvttuiv. (Arrian, Anab. ii. 5; Eustath. ad Ditmys. COM OF MOriUESTIA- Per. 872.) In the middle ages the name of tieplace was corrupted into Mamista ; its present Mas*is Mtuis or ileiuu. Ancient remains ax* not rean-tioned, and travellers describe Mensis as a dirty anduninteresting place. (I.eake, Atia Minor, p. 217;Otter's Reitcn, i. c 8.) [L. &■] MURBIUM, in Britain, is mentioned in the Xutitiaas the quarters of a body of horse Cataphraetara(" praefectus equitum Cataphractarioram Morbid").We are justified by an inscription in placing Mor-bium at Moreiby near Whittlutten, when the re­mains of a Homan camp are yet to be traced. Tbainscription, preserved in a MS. of Dr. Stukrley, batnot read by him, is upon a monument to the mr-mory of a soldier of the Cataphrartarii, which wasfuund within the precincts of the Camp. [CJLH.]MORDULAMXE (MopSooAaVvz;, Pu.Lrii.4. Ji),a port on the eastern coast of Taprobane (Cento* ^The name is probably a corruption of the MS&, endought to be Mip&ov Ai^tjy or M6pKov\a Xi^hr. Itis, perhaps, represented by the present Kattrfom,where there are still extensive ruins. (Hitter. Erd-hunde, vi. p. 22; Davy, Account of Ceflum. p.420.) [V.] MOKGA'NTIA, MURGA'MTA. or UQKGA'K-T1UM (Mopyan-iov, Strab.; Mo/ryajrirn, Died.:Eth. MopyavTwos. The name is variously writleaby Latin writers Murgantia, Murgeutia, and Mcr-gentia; the inhabitants are called by Cicero andPliny, Murgentini), a city of Sicily, in the interiorof the island, to the SW. of Catasa. It was a cityof the Siculi, though Strabo assigns its foundatxtto the Morgetes, whom he supposes to have crossedover from the southern part of Italy. (Strab. vipp. 257, 270.) But this was probably a mereinference from the resemblance of name; Stephanasof Byzantium (». r), who is evidently alluding uthe same tradition, calls Morgentium, or Mcrgentia(as he writes the name), a city of Italy, bat no mekplace is known. [Moiigktes.] Strabo is the eatjauthor who notices the existence of the Morjretea raSicily; and it is certain that when Morgantium firstappears in history it is as a Siculian town. It is firstmentioned by Diodorus in B. c. 459, when he calkit a considerable city (woAir UtiKoyar, Died. xi-78): it was at this time taken by Ducetioa, who issaid to have added greatly to his power andby the conquest; but after the fall of thatit became again independent. We next hear of itin n. c. 424, when, according to Thucydides, it waastipulated, at the peace concluded by Heiiuwiatea,that Morgantia (or Morgantina, as hename) should belong to the Camarinpaying for it a fixed sum to the Syiacoaaaa. (Tane.iv. 65.) It is impossible to understand this arrange­ment between two cities at such a distanre transone another, and there is probably some mistake atthe names.* It is certain that in n.c 396. Mor­gantia again appears as an independent city of theSiculi, and was one of those which fell under thearms of Diony.Mus of Syracuse, at the same tan*with Agyrium, Mruaenum, and other pnri (tana.xiv. 78.) At a later period it affmled a rrfinr* asAgathoclea, when driven into exile from Syisinaa, * It lias been suggested that we should rantKartmuoii for Ka^apiralon: but the em* is moraprobably in the other and less-known name. Pnr-haps we should read MOT-iirar** for Mop>n»T«»*>lie the district of Motyca immediately ad>*nad thatof Camarina.