OCR Output 38 ROMAN EMPIRE. Discord of Far different was the temper of the Greekstheeast, anc[ Egyptians under the orthodox reigns of451—482. Leo and Marcian. Those pious emperors en­forced with arms and edicts the symbol of their faith ;raod it was declared by the conscience or honour offive hundred bishops, that the decrees of the synod ofChalcedon might be lawfully supported, even withblood. The Catholics observed with satisfaction, thatthe same synod was odious both to the Nestorians andthe Monophysites ;y but the Nestorians were less angry, orless powerful, and the east was distracted by the obsti­nate and sanguinary zeal of the Monophysites. Jerusa­lem was occupied by an army of monks; in the nameof the one incarnate nature, they pillaged, they burnt,they murdered; the sepulchre of Christ was defiledwith blood; and the gates of the city were guarded intumultuous rebellion against the troops of the emperor.After the disgrace and exile of Dioscorus, the Egyp­tians still regretted their spiritual father; and detestedthe usurpation of his successor, who was introducedby the fathers of Chalcedon. The throne of Proteriuswas supported by a guard of two thousand soldiers; hewaged a five years' war against the people of Alexan­dria; and, on the first intelligence of the death of Mar­cian, he became the victim of their zeal. On the thirdday before the festival of Easter, the patriarch was be­sieged in the cathedral, and murdered in the baptis­tery. The remains of his mangled corpse were deliver­ x See in the Appendix to the Acts of Cbalcedon, the confirmation of the synod byMarcian, (Concil. torn. 4. p. 1781.1783.) his letters to the monks of Alexandria,(p. 1791.) of Mount Sinai, (p. 1793.) of Jerusalem and Palestine, (p. 1798.) hislaws against the Eutychians, (p. 1809. 1811. 1831.) the correspondence of Leowith the provincial synods on the revolution of Alexandria, (p. 1835.1930.) JPhotius(or rather the Eulogiusof Alexandria) confesses, in afine passage, thespecious colourof this double charge against Pope Leo and his synod of Chalcedon.(Bibliot. cod. 225. p. 768.) He waged a double war against the enemies of thechurch, and wounded eitherfoe with the darts of his adversary—xaraXXuXoif B'MnTHUS amvaXcu; ttnyarM. Against Nestorius he seemed to introduce the ?vyxy?itof the Monophysites: against Eutyches he appeared to countenance the vgwranm)iafega of the Nestorians. The apologist claims a charitable interpretation for thesaints: if the same had been extended to the heretics, the sound of the contro­versy would have been lost in the air.