OCR Output 372 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [». L and six months; after him came Sethosis and Ramesses, whohad an army of horse, and a naval force. This king ap­pointed his brother Armais to be his deputy over Egypt.[In another copy it stood thus. — After him came Sethosisand Ramesses, two brethren, the former of which had a navalforce, and in a hostile manner destroyed those that met himupon the sea: but as he slew Ramesses in no long time after­ward, so he appointed another of his brethren to be his deputyover Egypt.] He also gave him all the other authority of aking, but with these only injunctions, that he should not wearthe diadem, nor be injurious to the queen, the mother of hischildren; and that he should not meddle with the other con­cubines of the king, while he made an expedition against Cy­prus and Phoenicia, and besides against the Assyrians andthe Medes. He then subdued them all, some by his arms,some without fighting, and some by the terror of his greatarmy; and, being puffed up by the great successes he hadhad, lie went still on the more boldly, and overthrew the citiesand countries that lay in the eastern parts. But after someconsiderable time, Armais, who was left in Egypt, did allthose very things, by way of opposition, which his brotherhad forbid him to do, without fear; for he used violence tothe queen, and continued to make use of the rest of the con­cubines, without sparing any of them : nay, at the persuasionof his friends, he put on the diadem, and set up to oppose hisbrother. But then he who was set over the priests of Egyptwrote letters to Sethosis, and informed him of all that hadhappened, and how his brother had set up to oppose him ; he,therefore, returned back to Pelusium immediately, and re­covered his kingdom again. The country also was calledfrom his name Egypt: for Manetho says, that Sethosis washimself called Egypt us, as was his brother Armais calledDanawi." ' 1 Of this Egyptian chronology of Manetho, as mistaken by Josepbus, andof these Diocnioian shepherds, as falsely supposed by him, and others afterhim, to have been the Israelites in Egypt, sec Essay on the Old Testament,Appendix, page 182-188. And noto here, that when Josephus tells us thatthe Greeks or Argives looked on this Danaus as apxailnics, a ">ost ancieat, or