OCR Output CHAP. LII. 479 of the French monarchy invited the attack of these insa­tiate fanatics. The descendants of Clovis had lost theinheritance of his martial and ferocious spirit; and theirmisfortune or demerit has affixed the epithet of lazy tothe last kings of the Merovingian race.0 They ascendedthe throne without power, and sunk into the grave with­out a name. A country palace, in the neighbourhood ofCompeigne,d was allotted for their residence or prison;but each year, in the month of March or May, they wereconducted in a waggon drawn by oxen to the assemblyof the Franks, to give audience to foreign ambassadors,and to ratify the acts of the mayor of the palace. Thatdomestic officer was become the minister of the nation,and the master of the prince. A public employmentwas converted into the patrimony of a private family:the elder Pepin left a king of mature years under theguardianship of his own widow and her child; and thesefeeble regents were forcibly dispossessed by the mostactive of his bastards. A government, half savage andhalf corrupt, was almost dissolved; and the tributarydukes, the provincial counts, and the territorial lords,were tempted to despise the weakness of the monarch,and to imitate the ambition of the mayor. Among theseindependent chiefs, one of the boldest and most success­ful, was Eudes, duke of Aquitain, who, in the southernprovinces of Gaul, usurped the authority and even the had before him the Christian chronicle of Isidore Pacensis, and the Mahometanhistory of Novairi. The Moslems are silent or concise in the account of theirlosses, bnt M. Cardonne (torn. 1. p. 129—131.) Has given a pure and simple ac­count of all that he could collect from Ibn Halikan, Hidjazi, nml an anonymouswriter. The texts of the chronicles of France, and lives of saints, are inserted inthe collection of Bouquet (torn. 3.) and the annals of Pagi, who (torn. 3. under theproper years) has restored the chronology, which is anticipated six years ia theAnnals of Baronius. The Dictionary of Bayle (Abderame and Munuza) has moremerit for lively reflection than original research. c Eginbart, de Vita Caroli Magni, c. 2. p. 13—18. edit . Schmink, Utrecht, 1711.Some modem critics accuse the minister of Charlemagne of exaggerating theweak-ness of the Merovingians; but the general outline is just, and tin. French readerwill for ever repeat the beautiful lines of Boileau's Lutrin. d Mamacca on the Oyse, between Compeigne and Noyon, which Eginhart callsperparvi reditfis villarn. (See the notes, and the map of ancient France for Dom.Bouquet's Collection.) Compendium, or Compeigne, was a palace of more dig-nity, (Hadrian. Valesii Notitia Galliarum, p. 152.) and that laughing philosopher,the abW Galliani (Dialogues sUr le Commerce des Bleds), may truly affirm, thatit was the residence of the roia tres Chretiens et tres chevelus.