OCR Output VALLUM ROMANUM. 1255 VALLUM ROMAXUM. The origin of the barrier may have been theforta and stationary camps which Agricola (a.d. 79)nil—ll to be erected in Britain (Tac. Agr. 20); buttlic account which Tacitus gives of this measure is•o vague that it is quite impossible to found anycertain conclusion on his words. In A. I>. 120,Hadrimn visited Britain, where he determined on6xing the boundary of the Roman Empire consi­derably to the S. of the most N. conquests of Agri-a>la. He chose this boundary well, as it coincideswith a natural one. The Tyne flows almost due E.,just S., and nearly parallel to the 55° N. lat, formore than two thirds of the breadth of the island.The valley of the Tyne is separated from that of theIrtkixg, a branch of the Eilen, by the N. extremityof the great chain of hills sometimes called the Back-Uino of England; and the Irthing, with the Eden,completes the boundary to the Sohoay FrWu Inorder to strongthen this natural frontier, Hadrian, aswe are informed bySpartianus, "drew a wall (murus)80.1100 paces in length, to divide the barbarians fromthe Romans" which wall followed the same generaldirection as the line above indicated. Kutropius (viii. 19) states that the EmperorSeptiiniu* Severus, who was in Britain during A. D. —211, constructed a rampart (vallum) from seato sea, for the protection of the Roman provinces inthe Sw of the island. Now, as will be seen from the following descrip­tion, tiie lines of works designated by the generalname, Roman Wall, consist of two main parts, a stonenail and an earthen rampart; and most writers onthe subject have regarded these as two distinct,t Umgh connected, works, and belonging to two dif­ferent periods; the earthwork ban generally beenascribed to Hadrian, the stone wall to Severus. Such:» the opinion of lloreley, whose judgment, as Mr.Bruce emphatically admits, is always deserving ofll* highest consideration. Mr. Bruce himself ex­presses an opinion, founded on repeated and careful• lamination of all the remains of the wall. "thattiat line* of the barrier are the scheme of one great military engineer The wall of Hadrian wan not a fence such as that by which we preventllie straying of cattle; it was a line of military ope­ration, similar in its nature to the works which Wel­lington ruised at Turret Yedros. A broad belt ofriHintry was firmly secured. Walls of stone andearth crossed it Camps to the north and south ofih«-m broke the force of an enemy in both directions;r<r, m the event of their passing the outer line,enabled the Romans to close upon them both in frontand rear. Look-out stations revealed to them themovements of their foes; beacons enabled them tortwiimunicate with neighbouring garrisons; and thewants, which they always maintained, assisted themin mocentrating their forces upon the points whore itmight be done with the best effect Snch, I am per-■ aaded.was the intention of the Roman wall, thoughmaeut still maintain that the murus and vallum areindependent structures, the productions of differenttKriods" (pp. ix. x. Pre/. 2nd ed.) We confess that tin reasoning here does not seemto us to be very conclusive. Grant that the system of<i•fence has consistency and unity, yet it by no meansfollows that the whole was executed at one time.1 be earliest works were probably detached stationaryramps; the next step would naturally be to connectt hem together by a wall, whether of earth or stone;and if experience should afterwards prove that thisbarrier was insufficient, it would be on obvious pro­ ceeding to strengthen it by a parallel fortification.The common opinion, therefore, that Agricola com­menced the defensive line, Hadrian strengthened it,and Severus completed it, appears to be probable initself, and is supported by the little that we findupon the subject in the classical writers. If we mayassume that the words murtu and vallum were usedby Spartianus and Kutropius in their strict signifi­cations, it would seem that the stone wall was thework of Hadrian, the earthen rampart of Severus.That some portion of the barrier was executed underthe direction of the latter, is rendered still more pro­bable by the fact that the Rritons called the wallgual Sever, gal Sever, or mur Sever, as Camdenstates. U has been designated by various names inlater times; as the ricU' Wall, the Thirl Wall, theKept Wall/ but is now generally called the HotnanWall. The following description is taken almost entirelyfrom Mr. Brace's excellent work, mentioned at theend of this article. The barrier consists of three parts: (i.) ■ stonewall or murtu, strengthened by a ditch on itsnorthern side; (ii.) an earthen wall or vallum, southof the stone wall; (iii.) stations, castles, watch-towers, and roads: these lie for the most part be­tween the stone wall and the earthen rampart. The whole of the works extend from one side ofthe island to the other, in a nearly straight line, andcomparatively close to one another. The wall andrampart are generally within 60 or 70 yards of eachother, though the distance of course varies accord­ing to the nature of the country. Sometimes they areso close as barely to admit of toe passage of themilitary way between them; while in one or twoinstances tbey are npwards of half a mile apart Itis in the high grounds of the central region that theyare most widely separated. Hers the wall is carriedover the highest ridges, while the rampart runs alongthe adjacent valley. Both works, however, are soarranged as to afford each otlier the greatest amountof support which the nature of the country allows. The stone wall extends from Wallsendon the Tyneto Bournes* on the Soheay, a distance which Horelcyestimates at 68 miles 8 furlongs, a measurementwhich almost exactly coincides with that of GeneralRoy, who gives the length of the wall at 68) miles.The vallum falls shoit of this length by about 3miles at each end, terminating at Kevxastle on theE. side, and at Drumburgh on the W. For 19 miles out of Newcastle, the present high­road to Carlisle runs upon the foundations of thewall, which pursues a straight course wherever it isat all possible, and is never curved, but always bendsat an angle-In no part is the wall perfect, so that it is difficultto ascertain what its original height may havebeen. Bede, whose monastery of Jarrow was nearits eastern extremity, and who is the earliest authorityrespecting its dimensions, states that in his time itwas 8 feet thick and 12 high. Sir Christ Ridley,writing in 1572, describes it as 3 yards bread, aridin some places 7 yards high. Samson Erdeswick, awell-known antiquary, visited the wall in 1574, whenhe ascertained its height at the W. end to be 16 feet.Camden, who saw the wall in 1599, found a part ofit on a hill, near Carvoran, to be 15 feet high and9 broad. Allowing for a battlement, which wouldprobably soon be destroyed, we may conclude thatthe average height was from 18 to 19 feet Thethickness varies from 6 to 9.J feet