OCR Output SINAI. SINDA SARMATICA. 1005 fittl by Abderakhman from the southern coast of>nbis, preserved and translated by Schultens, berrert, it will follow that the old Adite characteris decipherable even two centaries later than thei> Milled to Cosmas, who could scarcely haveuad to discover the Christian origin of these in­flations, if they had been really Christian. Indeedout wall be questioned whether any Christians*#J hart been sufficiently conversant with this an­al character to use it as freely as it is used ona racks of the peninsula. Certainly if the hypo-eb if this place having been resorted to as ajra of pilgrimage by the pagan tribes of Arabia,4 10 having acquired a sanctity in the very. ."-t times, could be established, the fact mightnub a clue to the future investigation of this*nl; interesting subject, and, as Hitter has sug-fcUd. might scire to remove some difficulties in the>ovd Narrative. Now the journal of Antoninusserotinus does in fact supply so precisely whatu wanting, that it is singular that his statement■ *:tracted so little notice in connection with thewhich, however, he does notor even allude to. But what wehim is not unimportant, viz., that be-t the time of Islam, in " the ages of ignorance,"tit Mohammedans call tbem, the peninsula ofwnt Sinai was a principal seat of the idolatrouspetition of the Arabians; and that a feast wassi there in honour of their miraculous idol, whicha retorted to by Ishmaelilca, as he calls them,n all porta; the memorial of which feast seemsil'-' be preserve*! by the Bedawin. (Burckhardt,no, pp. 566, SC7.) Now when it is rememberedit the eastern commerce of Greece and Rome,stated by the Arabs of i'emtn and Iladramant,tt have brought their merchants and sailors to1 vicinity of this ancient sanctuary at Arsinoe orEitna, the pilgrimage becomes almost a matterujrte; and the practice which we know prevailedtlair earn country of graving their memorials-l an iron pen in the rock for ever, was naturallyby them, and imitated by the Christianrr.ms in after times. Undue stress has been laidtne frequency of the inscriptions about Serbal,trasted with t heir rarity about Jebel Misa ; bnt itol 1 be remembered that they are executed almostirely in the soft sandstone which meets thenit* an and around Serbal, but which is scarcelyad in the interior, where the hard, primitive rockISA encourage the scribbling propensities of therrl>r», as the softer tablets in the more westernI. where the blocks of trap-stone (which are alsoyir interspersed with the granite, and whichwit a black surface without, but arc lemon-within) were studiously selected for therip'iona, which, in consequence, come out withfieri of a rubricated book or illuminated manu-pt. the Mack surface throwing out in relief theea-cujonred inscriptions. rbai account of the peninsula must not be con-led without a brief notice of the very remarkabley\» of ~arbut cl-Chiidem, and the stelae which •.r.l in such numbers, not only in the temple,in other western parts of the peninsula, where• masses of copper, mixed with a quantity of -r. were and still are found in certain strata ofaaaadwtone rocks along the skirts of the prime-chain, and which gave to the whole district them still found in the hieroglyphics, Maphat, " the;er land,' which was under the particular pro- tection of the goddess Hathor, Mistress of Maphat.The temple, dedicated to her, stands on a lofty sand­stone ledge, and is entirely filled with lofty stelae,many of them like obelisks with inscriptions on bothsides; so crowded with them in fact, that its wallsseem only made to circumscribe the stelae, althoughthere are several erected outside it, and on the ad­jacent hills. Tho monuments belong, apparently, tovarious dynasties, but Dr. Lepsius has only speciallymentioned three, all of the twelfth. The masshccrust of iron ore covering the hillocks, 250 yardslong and 100 wide, to the depth of 6 or 8 feet, andblocks of scoriae, prove that the smelting furnaces ofthe Egyptian kings were situated on these airyheights; but the caverns in which lite ore wasfound contain the oldest effigies of kings in exist­ence, not excepting the whole of Egypt and thopyramids of Gizeh. The chief authorities for this article, besides thosereferred to in the text, are Niebuhr (Yoyagt tiiAralrie, vol. i. pp. 181—204); Seetzen (rYetsen, vol.iii. pp. 55 — 121). For the physical history anddescription of the peninsula, Russegger is by fur thefullest and most trustworthy authority (Beisen, vol.iii. pp. 22—58). Dr. Robinson has investigated thehistory and geography of the peninsula, with hisnsual diligence (Trarels, vol. i. §§ 3, 4. pp. 87—241); and Dr. Wilson has added some importantobservations in the way of additional information orcorrection of his predecessor (Lands of the Bible,vol. i. chapters vi.—viii. pp. 160—275). Lepsius'sTour from Thebes to the Peninsula of Sinai(letters, pp. 310—321,556—562), which has beentranslated by C. II. Cottrell (London, 1846), arguesfor Serial as the true Mountain of the Law; and histheory has been maintained with great learning andindustry by Mr. John Hogg (Remarks on MountSerbal, dx. in Transactions of the Royal Society ofLiterature, 1849). The graphic description of thecountry from Mr. A. P. Stanley's pen is the latestcontribution to the general history of the penin­sula (Sinai and Palestine, 1856). The decipher­ment of the inscriptions has been attempted by thelearned Orientalists of Germany, Gesenius, Roediger,Beer, and others (Ch. Bunsrn, Christianity andMankind, vol. iii. pp. 231—234); and Mr. Forsterhas published a vindication of his views against thestrictures of Mr. Stanley on his original work (TheVoice of Israel from the Hocks of Sinai, 1851;The Israelitish A uthorship of the Sinaitic Inscrip­tions, 1856). [G. W.] SINCHI, a sub-division of the Sarmatian tribe ofthe Tauri. (Amm. Mar. xxii. 8. § 33.) [T. H. D.] SINDA (MvSa: Eth. Sindensis), a town whichseems to hare been situated on the western frontierof Pisidia, in the neighbourhood of Cihyra and theriver Canlaris (Liv. xxxviii. 15; Strabo, xii. p.570, xiii. p. 630). Stephanus B. (t. r. 2ir2i'a), whospeaks of Sindiu as a town of Lycia, is probablyalluding to the same place. (Comp. Hierocl. p. 6X0;Polyb. Excerpt, de Leg. 30.) Some writers haveconfounded Siuda with Isionda, which is the Mr)surprising, as Livy mentions the two as differenttowns in the same chapter. (Leake, Asia Minor,p. 152.) [L. a] SINDA SARMATICA (2lvSa mi^n, I'tol. v. 9.§ 8), a town or village in Asiatic Sarmatia, in thoterritory of the Sindi, with an adjoining harbour(XirSxbs \tuvr, Ptol. lb.), 180 stadia E. of themouth of the Bosporus Cimmerius at OotDBOBdwHajand, according to Arrian (Per. P. Eux. p. 19), 500