OCR Output AN. 710.] 357 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. cure of not being at all disturbed by him, andthat the people might go on peaceably andwithout fear with their husbandry and otheraffairs. But after a little while, the king ofAssyria, when he had failed of his treache­rous designs against the Egyptians, returnedhome, without success, on the following oc­casion. He spent a long time in the siege ofPelusium; and when the banks that he hadraised over against the walls were of a greatheight, and when he was ready to makean immediate assault upon them, he heardthat Tirhaka, king of the Ethiopians, wasbringing great forces to aid the Egyptians,and was resolved to march through the de­sert, and so to fall directly upon the Assy­rians. Sennacherib was therefore disturbedat the news: and, as I said before, left Pe­lusium, and returned back without success.Now concerning this Sennacherib Herodotussays, in the second book of his histories, thathe came against the Egyptian king, who wasthe priest of Vulcan: and that as he wasbesieging Pelusium, he broke up the siegeon the following occasion. This Egyptian priest prayed to God, and God heard hisprayer; and sent a judgment upon the Ara­bian king; but in this Herodotus was mis­taken, when he called this king not *king ofthe Assyrians, but of the Arabians. For hesaith, that "A multitude of mice gnawed topieces in one night both the bows, and therest of the armour of the Assyrians; and thatit was on that account that the king, whenhe had no bows left, drew off his army fromPelusium." And Herodotus does indeedgive us this history. Nay, and Berosus,who wrote of the affairs of Chaldea, makesmention of this king Sennacherib, and thathe ruled over the Assyrians, and that hemade an expedition against all Asia andEgypt; and fsays thus:— "Now when Sennacherib was returningfrom his Egyptian war to Jerusalem, hefound his army under Rabshakeh his gene­ral, in danger by a plague, for God had senta pestilential distemper upon his army; andon the very first night of the siege a hundredand eighty-five thousand, with their captainsand generals, were destroyed.J So the king that (afterward) the people might go on peaceably, andwithout fear with their husbandry, and other affairs," ismore distinct in our other copies, both of the Kings andof Isaiah; and deserves very great consideration. Thewords are these, "This shall be a sign unto thee: yeshall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and thesecond year that which springeth of the same; and inthe third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, andeat the fruits thereof." 2 Kings xix. 20. Isaiah xxxvii.30. which seem to me plainly to design a sabbatic year;a year of Jubilee, next after it; and the succeeding usuallabours and fruits of them on the third and followingyears. From which may be determined the sabbaticyear; part of the 18th and part of the 19th year of He-zekiah; or part of the 710th and 709th years before theChristian Era: and the year of Jubilee: part of the 19thand part of the 20th of Hezekiah; which is the part ofthe 709th and part of the 708th before the Christian Era.From which texts may be determined all the other sab­batic years; and that in agreement with a great deal ofother evidence, which in this case no way differs fromit. From which texts also may be determined, what wehave hitherto extremely wanted, the situation of all theother years of Jubilee; even from that first year whereinMoses died, and Joshua led the Israelites into the land ofCanaan, an. 1492, to the last year of Jubilee, whereinJohn the Baptist began his ministry, A. D. 28, thirty-twoin all. Whence the Scripture chronology may be settled,and this without the error of a single year, as far back asthe death of Moses; during the very long interval of3227 years. * Correct here Josephus's copies, as to the citation outof Herodotus, and read, "who says that Sennacheribwas not only king of the Assyrians, but of the Arabians also." Which Josephus seems to have esteemed a mis­take in Herodotus. t That this terrible calamity of the slaughter of the185,000 Assyrians is here delivered in the words of Be­rosus the Chaldean; and that it was certainly and fre­quently foretold by the Jewish prophets, and that it wascertainly and undeniably accomplished, see AuthenticRec. part II. page 858—871. J The ancient Jews, (as well as Persians and Arabians,)were of opinion, that there is an angel of death, or an ex­terminating angel, whom God has given the commissionto take away the lives, either of single persons, or of mul­titudes of people at once, wherein the Almighty gives theorder, but leaves the method of doing it to the angel;so that in which way soever the infliction is made, it isalways said to be done by the angel of God. The modernJews are much of the same opinion: for they maintain,that this angel of death stands at every dying man's bed'shead, with a naked sword in his hand, at the extremityof which there hang three drops of gall, and that the sickperson, seeing this angel, in a great fright opens hismouth, whereupon he immediately drops into it thesethree fatal drops; the first which occasions his death; thesecond makes him pale and livid; and the third reduceshim to the dust in the grave, with some other notions ofthe like nature. Now since the Scripture has no wheresaid expressly, in what manner this Assyrian army wasdestroyed, some have thought that it was by a plague;others by thunder and lightning; others by fire from hea­ven; others by a scorching wind; others by their fallingfoul upon one another in the obscurity of the night; butwhich way soever it was effected, according to the He­brew idiom, there is no impropriety in saying, that it wa»done by a destroying angel, which is a comprehensive 3P2