OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 145 Cimbis at a little distance, and from thence sent am­bassadors, complaining of their having shut their gatesagainst an ally and friend. While they apologised forthis act, alleging that it had been done by a part of themultitude, who were offended because some of theireffects had been carried off by the soldiers when theywere embarking, he enticed their suffetes,i which is thename of the chief magistracy among the Carthaginians,and their treasurer to a conference; and then orderedthem to be crucified, after they had been mangled withstripes. From thence he sailed to the island Pityusa,3about one hundred miles from the continent, inhabitedat that time by Carthaginians, where the fleet was re­ceived in a friendly manner, and supplied not onlywith abundance of provisions, but with a reinforce­ment of young men and arms. Emboldened by thesesuccors, the Carthaginian proceeded to the Balearicislands, about fifty miles distant. There are two of theBaleares ;3 one larger and more powerful in men andarms than the other, and which has also a harbor,where he believed he might pass the winter commodi-ously, as it was now the latter end of autumn. Buthere he met with an opposition as violent as if the in­habitants of that island had been Romans. As theynow mostly use slings, so at that time these were theironly weapons; in the skilful use of which the Balea- i These were two magistrates chosen annually, and investedwith power similar to those of the Roman consuls. The Car­thaginians had a senate also like that of the Romans. Therewas one peculiarity in their proceedings which deserves no­tice: when the members were unanimous, there was no ap­peal from their decision; hut when opinions were divided,the business devolved to the community at large. For a verylong time the people interfered but little with the administra­tion of public affairs; but afterwards, by means of factionsand cabals, they almost intirely engrossed it to themselies,which proved a principal cause of their ruin. They had acouncil consisting of one hundred and four members, calledthe tribunal of the hundred, to which the commanders ofarmies were responsible for their conduct. * Iviea. 3 Majorca and Minorca. 1IV. VOL. V. K