OCR Output C. I.] SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. 159 he set on fire those houses that were full of corn,1 and of allother provisions. The same thing was done by Simon, when,upon the other's retreat, he attacked the city also: as if theyhad on purpose done it to serve the Romans, by destroyingwhat the city had laid up against the siege, and by thus cut­ting off the nerves of their own power. Accordingly it socame to pass, that all the places that were about the templewere burnt down, and were become an intermediate desertspace, ready for fighting on both sides of it; and that almostall that corn was burnt, which would have been sufficient fora siege of many years. So they were taken by the means ofthe famine, which it was impossible they should have beenunless they had thus prepared the way for it by this procedure.5. And now, as the city was engaged in a war on all sides,from these treacherous crowds of wicked men, the people ofthe city between them were like a great body torn in pieces.The aged men and the women were in such distress by theirinternal calamities that they wished for the Romans, andearnestly hoped for an external war, in order to their deliveryfrom their domestical miseries. The citizens themselves wereunder a terrible consternation and fear; nor had they anyopportunity of taking counsel, and of changing their conduct;nor were there any hopes of coming to an agreement withtheir enemies; nor could such as had a mind fly away; forguards were set at all places, and the heads of the robbers,although they were seditious one against another in other re­spects, yet did they agree in killing those that were for peacewith the Romans, or were suspected of an inclination to desertto them, as their common enemies. They agreed in nothingbut this, to kill those that were innocent. The noise also ofthose that were fighting was incessant both by day and bynight; but the lamentation of those that mourned exceededthe other; nor was there ever any occasion for them to leaveoff their lamentations, because their calamities came perpetu­ 1 This destruction of such a vast quantity of corn and other provisions, nswas sufficient for many years, was the direct occasion of that terrible faminewhich consumed incredible numbers of Jews in Jerusalem during its siege.Nor probably could the Romans have taken this city, after all, had not theseseditious Jews been so infatuated as thus madly to destroy what Josephuahere justly styles "the nerves of their power."