OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S9S "them." He also exhorted Herod to lay all such suspicionsaside, and to be reconciled to his sons; for that it was not just togive any credit to such reports concerning his own children; andthat this repentance on both sides might still heal those breachesthat had happened between them, and might improve theirgood-will to one another, whereby those on both sides, excusingthe rashness of their suspicions, might resolve to bear a greaterdegree of affection towards each other than they had before. Af­ter Caesar had given them this admonition, he beckoned to theyoung men. When therefore they were disposed to fall downto make intercession to their father, he took them up, and em­braced them, as they were in tears, and took each of them dis­tinctly in his arms, till not one of those that were present,whether freeman or slave, but was deeply affected with whatthey saw. 5. Then did they return thanks to Caesar, and went awaytogether; and with them went Antipater, with a hypocriticalpretence that he rejoiced at this reconciliation. And in the lastdays they were with Caesar, Herod made him a present of threehundred talents, as he was then exhibiting shows andjargesses tothe people of Rome: and Caesar made him a present of half therevenue of the copper mines in Cyprus, and committed the careof the other half to him, and honoured him with other gifts andincomes: And as to his own kingdom, he left it in his ownpower to appoint which of his sons he pleased for his successor,or to distribute it in parts to every one, that the dignity mightthereby come to them all. And when Herod was disposed tomake such a settlement immediately, Caesar said, "He would"not give him leave to deprive himself, while he was alive, of"the power over his kingdom, or over his sons." 6. After this Herod returned to Judea again, but during hisabsence no small part of his dominions about Trachon had re­volted, whom yet the commanders he left there had vanquished,and compelled to a submission again. Now, as Herod was sail­ing with his sons, and was come over against Cilicia, to [theisland] Eleusa, which hath now changed its name for Sebaste,he met with Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, who received himkindly, as rejoicing that he was reconciled to his sons, and thatthe accasation against Alexander, who had married his daugh­ter, was at an end. They also made one another such presentsas it became kings to make. From thence Herod came to Judea,and to the temple, where he made a speech to the people, con­cerning what had been done in this his journey: " He also dis-"coursed to them about Caesar's kindness to him, and about as"many of the particulars he had done, as he thought it for his"advantage other people should be acquainted with. At last he