OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 459 infantry was invariably covered with defensive armour, chap.from the foundation of the city, to the reign of the XXILemperor Gratian. The relaxation of discipline, andthe disuse of exercise, rendered the soldiers less able,and less willing, to support the fatigues of the service;they complained of the weight of the armour, whichthey seldom wore; and they successively obtained thepermission of laying aside both their cuirasses andtheir helmets. The heavy weapons of their ancestors,the short sword, and the formidable pilum, which hadsubdued the world, insensibly dropped from theirfeeble hands. As the use of the shield is incom­patible with that of the bow, they reluctantly marchedinto the field; condemned to suffer, either the painof wounds, or the ignominy of flight, and always dis­posed to prefer the more shameful alternative. Thecavalry of the Goths, the Huns, and the Alani, hadfelt the benefits, and adopted the use, of defensivearmour; and as they excelled in the management ofmissile weapons, they easily overwhelmed the nakedand trembling legions, whose heads and breasts wereexposed, without defence, to the arrows of the Bar­barians. The loss of armies, the destruction of cities,and the dishonour of the Roman name, ineffectuallysolicited the successors of Gratian to restore the hel­mets and cuirasses of the infantry. The enervatedsoldiers abandoned their own, and the public de­fence; and their pusillanimous indolence may beconsidered as the immediate cause of the downfal ofthe empire*. * Mr. Gibbon has here interrupted his History by what may properly be styleda Dissertation, rather than a Narrative, respecting the fall of paganism, and thealterations in the worship of the Christians. As I have already observed that the History of the Church is not intended toform a part of the present publication, I shall content myself with stating themost material circumstances of a very long chapter, in the few sentences that aresubjoined. The fall of paganism, which, with one short interval, had been progressivefrom the time of Constantine, was rendered complete during the reign of Theo-dosius. The worship of Jupiter was condemned at Rome in the year 388, bythe decree of a very large majority of the senate: and the worship of idols, with