OCR Output 74 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. CHAP. XL. Turfjuin killed by a plot of the tons of Marcius^ 1. ARQUIN having reigned now upwards of thirty-seven years, Servius Tullius had not only by far thegreatest share of the royal favour, bi.t also stood veryhigh in the esteem of both senate and people. Aboutthis time also, the two sons of Marcius, who had alwaysreflected with indignation that their guardian had art­fully tricked them out of their father's kingdom, andsecured it to himself, a stranger descended of no familyin Rome, nay, not even in Italy; when they observedthat the kingdom was not like to revert to them, evenafter the death of Tarquin, but to become the perquisiteof the refuse of mankind, set no bounds to their resent­ment. "What! said they, shall the Roman state, acentury after Romulus, its founder and sovereign,while on earth, whose extraction was divine, and him­self ranked among the gods, be given to a slave ?—the son of a slave, to reign over it, while we, the sonsof Ancus are living? Shall the Roman throne lie opennot only to strangers, but even to slaves? Would notthis be a reproach to the Roman name, and an inde-"lible stain on that illustrious house, which can never"be wiped off"?" By the sword, therefore, they resolve to do themselvesjustice. But their indignation for the injuries they hadreceived, was rather excited against Tarquin than Ser­vius; as the revenge of a king was more to be dreadedthan that of a private man: moreover, should they de­stroy Servius, Tarquin might provide himself in anotherson-in-law, who could also succeed him; for these rea­sons the plot was laid against the king himself. Two ofthe most resolute among the shepherds were chosen forexecuting their villainous purpose. They had each suchiron instruments as they used to carry in the country;and pretending to quarrel at the gate of the palace,made such a prodigious noise, that they brought all theofficers of the court about them. Then, when they bothappealed to the king, the noise they made reaching the