OCR Output 300 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT. rena particularly distinguished himself; but the siege didnot on that account advance more rapidly. From Mace­donia, where the Cappadocians had meanwhile definitelyestablished themselves, plentiful and regular supplies arrivedby sea, which Sulla was not in a condition to cut off fromthe harbour-fortress; in Athens no doubt provisions werebeginning to fail, but from the proximity of the two for­tresses Archelaus was enabled to make various attempts tothrow quantities of grain into Athens, which were not wholly87-86. unsuccessful. So the winter of 667-8 passed away tediouslywithout result. As soon as the season allowed, Sulla threwhimself with vehemence on the Piraeeus; he in fact suc­ceeded by missiles and mines in making a breach in part ofthe strong walls of Pericles, and immediately the Romans ad­vanced to the assault; but it was repulsed, and on its beingrenewed crescent-shaped entrenchments were found con­structed behind the fallen walls, from which the invadersfound themselves assailed on three sides with missiles andcompelled to retire. Sulla then abandoned the siege, andcontented himself with a blockade. In the meanwhile theprovisions in Athens were wholly exhausted; the garrisonattempted to procure a capitulation, but Sulla sent backtheir fluent envoys with the hint that he stood before themnot as a student but as a general and would accept onlyunconditional surrender. When Aristion, well knowing whatfate was in store for him, delayed compliance, the ladderswere applied and the city, hardly any longer defended, wasAthens [86. taken by storm (1 March 668.) Aristion threw himselffalls. into the Acropolis, where he soon afterwards surrendered. The Roman general left the soldiery to murder and plunderin the captured city and the more considerable ringleadersof the revolt to be executed; but the city itself obtainedback from him its liberty and its possessions—even Delos.which had just been presented to it by Mithradates—andwas thus once more saved by its illustrious dead.Critical po- The Epicurean schoolmaster had thus been vanquished;sition of but Sulla's position remained in the highest degree difficult,Sulla. and even desperate. He had now been more than a year in the field without having advanced a step worth mention­ing; a single port mocked all his exertions, while Asia wasutterly left to itself, and the conquest of Macedonia byMithradates' lieutenants had recently been completed bythe capture of Amphipolis. Without a fleet—it was be­