OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 12S Sawyers, to preserve the constitutions of the pagan emperors from Hadrian toConstantine. The third, which is still extant, was digested in sixteen books bythe order of the young Theodosius, to consecrate the laws of the Christian princesfrom Constantine to his own reign. But the three codes obtained an equal autho­rity in the tribunals; and any act which was not included in the sacred dcposite,might be disregarded by the judge as spurious or obsolete. (1) Among savage nations, the want of letters is imperfectly supplied by use of visi­ble signs, which awaken attention, and perpetuate the remembrance of any pub­lic or private transaction. The jurisprudence of the first Romans exhibited thescenes of a pantomime; the words were adapted to the gestures, and the slightesterror or neglect in the forms of proceeding was sufficient to annul the substance ofthe fairest claim. The communion of the marriage-life was denoted by the ne­cessary elements of. fire and water:(2) and the divorced wife resigned the bunchof keys, by the delivery of which she had been invested with the government ofthe family. The manumission of a son, or a slave, was performed by turninghim round with a gentle blow on the cheek: a work was prohibited by the castingof a stone; prescription was interrupted by the breaking of a branch; the clenchedfist was the symbol of a pledge or deposite; the right hand was the gift of faith andconfidence. The indenture of covenants was a broken straw; weights and scaleswere introduced into every payment, and the heir who accepted a testament, wassometimes obliged to snap his fingers, to cast away his garments, and to leap anddance with real or affected transport. (3) If a citizen pursued any stolen goodsinto a neighbour's house, he concealed his nakedness with a linen towel, and hidhis face with a mask or basin, lest he should encounter the eyes of a virgin or amatron. (4) In a civil action, the plaintiff touched the ear of his witness, seizedhis reluctant adversary by the neck; and implored, in solemn lamentation, the aidof his fellow-citizens. The two competitors grasped each other's hand as if theystood prepared for combat before the tribunal of the pretor: he commanded themto produce the'object of the dispute; they went, they returned, with measuredsteps, and a clod of earth was cast at his feet to represent the field for which theycontended. This occult science of the words and actions of law was the inheri­tance of the pontiffs and the patricians. Like the Chaldean astrologers, they an­nounced to their clients the days of business and repose; these important trifleswere interwoven with the religion of Numa; and, after the publication of thetwelve tables, the Roman people were still enslaved by the ignorance of judicialproceedings. The treachery of some plebeian officers at length revealed the pro­fitable mystery: in a more enlightened age, the legal actions were derided and ob­served; and the same antiquity which sanctified the practice, obliterated the useand meaning, of this primitive language. (5) A more liberal art was cultivated, however, by the sages of Rome, who, in astricter sense, may be considered as the authors of the civil law. The alterationof the idiom and manners of the Romans, rendered the style of the twelve tablesless familiar to each rising generation, and the doubtful passages were imperfectlyexplained by the study of legal antiquarians. To define the ambiguities, to cir­cumscribe the latitude, to apply the principles, to extend the consequences, toreconcile the real or apparent contradictions, was a much nobler and more im­portant task; and the province of legislation was silently invaded by the expoun­ders of ancient statutes. Their subtle interpretations concurred with the equityof the pretor, to reform the tyranny of the darker ages: however strange or in­tricate the means, it was the aim of artificial jurisprudence to restore the simpledictates of nature and reason, and the skill of private citizens was usefully em­ployed to undermine the public institutions of their country. The revolution of (1) Schulting, Jurisprudentia Antc-Tostinianea, p. fiBl—71B. Cnjacins assignee! to Gregory the reigns fromHadrian to Oallienus, and the continuation to his fellow-labourer Hermogenes. This general division may bejust; hut they often trespassed on each othe.-'s ground. (2) Sean-ola, most probab'.y Cervidius Sesevola the master of Papinian, consider? this acceptance of fireand water as the essence of marriage (Pandect, lib. xxiv. tit. i. leg. txvi. See Heineccius, Hist. J. n. No. 317.) _ (3) Cicero (de Ofliciis, 3. 19.) may state an ideal case, but St. Ambrose (de Officiis. 3. 2.) appeals to the prac­tice of his own times, which he understood as a lawyer and a magi>tratc. (Schulting ad Ulpian. Fragment,lit. xlii. No. 28. p. 043,644\) I (4) The fartum lance licioquc conceplura was no longer understood in the time of the Antonines (AulasG11 litis, 16. lo.) The Attic derivation of Heineccius (Antiquitat. Rom. lib. iv. tit. i. No. 13—21.) is supportedby the evidence of Aristophasjes, his scholiast and Pollux. (5) In his oration for Murena (c. 0—13.,) Cicero turns into ridicule the forms and mysteries of the civilians,which are represented with more candour by Aulus Gellius (Noct. Attic. 20.10.) Gravioa (Opp. p. 265— 367..''and Heineccius (Antiquitat. lib. iv. tit. vi.)