OCR Output 202 LIVY. diers, and speak to them ; and, as he came up to each,he rebuked them for their backwardness in takingarms, asking, ' Why they loitered and declined thefight.' If they did not choose to go out of the camp,the enemy would come into it; and they must fight indefence of their tents, if they would not in defence ofthe rampart. Men who have arms in their hands, andcontend with their foe, have always a chance for vic­tory ; but the man who waits naked and unarmed forhis enemy must suffer either death or slavery.' Tothese reprimands and rebukes they answered that' they were exhausted by the fatigue of the battle ofyesterday, and had no strength nor even blood re­maining; and, besides, the enemy appeared more nu­merous than they were the day before.' The hostilearmy, in the mean time, drew near: so that, seeingevery thing more distinctly as the distance grew less,they asserted that the Samnites carried with them pal-lisades for a rampart, and evidently intended to drawlines of circumvallation round the camp. On this theconsul exclaimed with great earnestness against sub­mitting to such an ignominious insult, and from sodastardly a foe. ' Shall we even be blockaded,' saidhe, ' in our camp, and die like cowards by famine,rather than like men, if death must be our lot, by thesword? May the gods be propitious! and let everyone act in the manner which he thinks becomes him.The consul Marcus Atilius, should no other accom­pany him, will go out, even alone, to face the enemy,and will fall in the middle of the Samnite battalions,rather thau see the Roman camp inclosed by theirtrenches.' The lieutenants-general, tribunes, everytroop of the cavalry, and the principal centurions, ex­pressed their approbation of what the consul said ; andthe soldiers at length, overcome by shame, took uptheir arms, but in a spiritless manner ; and in thesame spiritless manner marched out of the camp. Ina long train, and that not every where connected, me­lancholy, and seemingly subdued, they proceeded to­wards the enemy, whose hopes and courage were not