OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 209 omen is pleasing; steer your ships thither.' The fleetran down accordingly, and all the forces were disem­barked. I am inclined to follow the accounts of verymany Greek and Latin authors; which are, that thevoyage was prosperous, and without danger or con­fusion. Coelius alone (except that he does not repre­sent the ships as being lost) gives a narration of everyother dreadful occurrence, which could be occasionedby wind or waves; that, at last, the fleet was drivenfrom Africa to the island jEgimurus ; that from thence,with difficulty, they recovered their course; and thatthe men had, without orders from the general, escapedto land in boats from the almost foundering vessels,just, in short, as from a shipwreck, without arms andin the utmost disorder. 28. The troops being landed, formed their camp onthe nearest rising grounds. The sight of the fleet, withthe bustle of landing, spread consternation and terror,not only through the parts adjoining the sea, but evenamong the cities: for not only crowds of women andchildren, mixing with the bands of men, filled up allthe roads, but the country people also drove theircattle before them, so that it seemed as if they were allat once forsaking Africa. Those caused much greaterterror in the cities than they had felt themselves, par­ticularly at Carthage, where the tumult was almost asgreat as though the enemy were at its gates; for, sincethe consulate of Marcus Attilius Regulus and LuciusManlius, a space of nearly fifty years, they had seenno Roman army, except those predatory squadrons,from which some troops had made descents on the ad­joining coast, seizing whatever chance threw in theirway, but who had always made a hasty retreat to theirships, and before the peasantry had taken the alarm:for this reason, the consternation and panic was nowthe greater; and, in fact, they had neither a powerfularmy at home, nor a general whom they could opposeto the invaders. Hasdrubal, son of Gisgo, was by farthe first person in the city, not only in character andwealth, but also by reason of his affinity with the king.liv. vol. v. o