OCR Output C. VII.] EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. 197 the Romans. But when they fought them from the walls,they were too hard for them ; the Romans being encouragedby their power, joined to their skill, as were the Jews bytheir boldness, which was nourished by the fear they werein, and that hardiness which is natural to our nation undercalamities; they were also encouraged still by the hope ofdeliverance, as were the Romans by their hopes of subduingthem in a little time. Nor did either side grow weary; butattacks and fightings upon the wall, and perpetual sallies outin bodies, were there all the day long; nor were there anysort of warlike engagements that were not then put in use.And the night itself had much ado to part them, when theybegan to fight in the morning; nay, the night itself waspassed without sleep on both sides, and was more uneasythan the day to them, while the one was afraid lest the wallshould be taken, and the other lest the Jews should makesallies upon their camps: both sides also lay in their armorduring the night-time, and thereby were ready at the firstappearance of light to go to the battle. Now, among theJews the ambition was, who should undergo the first dangers,and thereby gratify their commanders. Above all, they hada great veneration and dread of Simon ; and to that degreewas he regarded by every one of those that were under him,that at his command they were very ready to kill themselveswith their own hands. What made the Romans so courageouswas their usual custom of conquering, and disuse of beingdefeated, their constant wars, and perpetual warlike exercises,and the grandeur of their dominion : and what was now theirchief encouragement, Titus, who was present every wherewith them all; for it appeared a terrible thing to grow wearywhile Caesar was there, and fought bravely, as well as theydid, and was himself at once an eye-witness of such as be­haved themselves valiantly, and he who was to reward themalso. It was, besides, esteemed an advantage at present tohave any one's valor known by Coesar, on which accountmany of them appeared to have more alacrity than strengthto answer it. And now, as the Jews were about this timestanding in array before the wall, and that in a strong body, 17*