OCR Output CHAP. XL.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. &} Justinian was lost, if the prostitute whom he raised Firmnes. orfrom the theatre had not renounced the timidity, as well TheoJu'a•as the virtues, of her sex. In the midst of a council, •where Belisarius was present, Theodora alone displayedthe spirit of a hero; and she alone, without apprehend­ing his future hatred, could save the emperor from theimminent danger, and his unworthy fears. "If flight(said the consort of Justinian) were the only means ofsafety, yet I should disdain to fly. Death is the con­dition of our birth; but they who have reigned shouldnever survive the loss of dignity and dominion. I im­plore Heaven that I may never be seen, not a day, withoutmy diadem and purple; that I may no longer behold thelight, when I cease to be saluted with the name of queen.If you resolve, O Caesar! to fly, you have treasures;behold the sea, you have ships: but tremble lest the de­sire of life should expose you to wretched exile and igno­minious death. For my own part, I adhere to the maximof antiquity, that the throne is a glorious sepulchre."The firmness of a woman restored the courage to deli­berate and act, and courage soon discovers the resourcesof the most desperate situation. It was an easy and adecisive measure to revive the animosity of the factions;the blue were astonished at their own guilt and folly, thata trifling injury should provoke them to conspire withtheir implacable enemies against a gracious and liberalbenefactor; they again proclaimed the majesty of Jus-Tiie»edi-tinian, and the greens, with their upstart emperor, were prenssed.npleft alone in the hippodrome. The fidelity of the guardswas doubtful; but the military force of Justinian con­sisted in three thousand veterans, who had been trainedto valour and discipline in the Persian and Illyrian wars.Under the command of Belisarius and Mundus, theysilently marched in two divisions from the palace, forcedtheir obscure way through narrow passages, expiringflames, and falling edifices, and burst open, at the samemoment, the two opposite gates of the hippodrome.