OCR Output 306 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. services, under the instructions of his master caused thewhole councillors of Adramyttium to be put to death. TheChians, who were suspected of an inclination to Rome, werefined in the first instance in 2000 talents (£488,000) and,when the payment was found not correct, they were en masseput on board ship and deported in chains under the charge oftheir own slaves to the coast of Colchis, while their islandwas occupied with Pontic colonists. The king gave ordersthat the chiefs of the Celts in Asia Minor should all be putto death along with their wives and children in one day, andthat Galatia should be converted into a Pontic satrapy.Most of these bloody edicts were carried into effect eitherat Mithradates' own head-quarters or in Galatia, but the fewwho escaped placed themselves at the head of their powerfultribes and expelled Eumachus, the governor of the king,out of their bounds. It may readily be conceived that sucha king would be pursued by the daggers of assassins; sixteenhundred men were condemned to death by the royal courts ofinquisition as having been implicated in such conspiracies.Lucullus While the king was thus by his suicidal fury provoking and the his temporary subjects to rise in arms against him, he wasAsiatic 6 at tne Bame time hard pressed by the Romans in Asia bothcoast. by sea and by land. Lucullus, after the failure of his attempt to lead forth the Egyptian fleet against Mithra­dates, had with better success repeated his efforts to procurevessels of war in the Syrian maritime towns, and reinforcedhis nascent fleet in the ports of Cyprus, Pamphylia, andRhodes till he found himself strong enough to proceed tothe attack. He dexterously avoided the measuring himselfagainst superior forces and yet obtained no inconsiderableadvantages. The Cnidian island and peninsula were occu­pied by him, Samos was assailed, Colophon and Chios werewrested from the enemy.Flaccus Meanwhile Flaccus had proceeded with his army through arrives in Macedonia and Thrace to Byzantium, and thence, passingAsia. [86. the strafts, had reached Chalcedon (end of 668). There amilitary insurrection broke out against the general, osten­sibly because he embezzled the spoil from the soldiers. Thesoul of it was one of the chief officers of the army, a manwhose name had become a proverb in Rome for a trueFimbria. mob-orator, Gaius Flavius Fimbria, who, after having dif­fered with his commander-in-chief, transferred the dema­gogic practices which be had begun in the Forum to the