OCR Output 272 LIVY. bush. Some men of advanced age, governors of theirforts, came to the Carthaginian as ambassadors, withhumble representations, that ' as the calamities ofothers had afforded them a profitable lesson, theywished to make trial of the friendship, rather than ofthe strength of the Carthaginians. That they weretherefore resolved to yield obedience to all his com­mands, and requested him to accept of provisions andguides on his march, and hostages to insure the per­formance of their engagements.' Hannibal neitherhastily crediting, nor yet slighting their offers, lest, ifrejected, they might declare openly against him, afterreturning a favorable answer, accepted the hostages,and made use of the provisions which they had, of theirown accord, brought to the road ; but followed theguides, not as through a friendly country, but withthe strictest order in his march. The elephants andcavalry composed the van, and he himself followedwith the main body of the infantry, carefully inspect­ing every particular. On their coming into a roadnarrower than the rest, confined on one side by animpending hill, the barbarians rising up on all sidesfrom places where they had lain concealed, assailedthem in front and rear, in close and in distant fight,rolling down also huge rocks on the troops. The mostnumerous body pressed on the rear. There the mainforce of infantry was ready to oppose them ; but hadnot that been very strong, it must undoubtedly, in sucha difficult pass, have suffered very great loss : even aathe case stood, it was brought to the extremity of dan­ger, and almost to destruction : for whilst Hannibalhesitated to lead down his horsemen into the narrowroad, though he had left no kind of support at the backof the infantry, the mountaineers, rushing across andbreaking through between the two divisions of thearmy, took possession of the pass, and Hannibal spentone night separated from his cavalry and baggage. 35. Next day, the barbarians having relaxed theviolence of their attacks in the centre, the troops werereunited, and carried through the defile, but not with­