OCR Output stria. 1073 SYRIA. f *)>icb has been described by RurckhinH, ami itsatJari by the no less enterprising and more aan-Mi I'urter. in more recent times. (Barckhardt,yria, p. 1.1. Ac; Porter, /kimascus, vol. ii. p. SO, Ac) Tik northern part of Syria is now comprehended in * radial ic of Aleppo, It is bounded on the east'the Euphrates, and on the north and west by themntais chains of Taurus and Amanus, the former'*hich throws off other diverging branches to theeta, until they ultimately Hunk the valley of ther»ntrs on the east, so continuing the connection•:*tn Antilibanus and its parent stock. Aleppo*lf is situated in a rich and extensive plain, sepa->l (Vi the east by undulating hills from the almost-■i-apieal country, which consists of a level bl<ecp->< k, extending from thence to the Euphrates. The*ti level of this Syrian d evert is, however, diver­ted by occasional ranges of hills. and the plateaus} of various elevation, rising a little wwt uf then.iun of Aleppo to a height of 1500 feet ulmvo thextiirrninean, and thence declining suddenly to theit and much more gradually to the west, it is on[of these ranges in the heart of the desert, north-*Damascus, that Palmyra U situated, the onlyi.vable point in all the dreary waste, which has■i described in an article of its own [Palmyra]. * tract between Damascus and Palmyra has beenjTCtly explored by modern travellers, as well asi ruins themselves; but there is no better accountt< riaind of them tlian in Mr. Porter's book,**y so frequently referred to (vol. i. pp. 149—I: compare Irby ami Mangles, pp. 257—276).111. Ancient aetyrapJuad divisions.—The ear^t classical notice of Syria, which could be ex-i«l to rnter into any detail, is that of Xenophon Anabasis. Unhappily, however, this writer's"ubi of the march of Cyrus through the north of\* ia Ttry brief. The following notes are all that'tfrs for the illustration of its ancient geography.u> he mention!* as the last city of Cilicia, towardsis. One day's march of 5 parasangs brought amy to the galea of Cilicia and Syria: twoV, 3 f>udia apart, — the river Census (Keotrur).i c between,—drawn from the sea to the preripi-i forks, fitted with gales, allowing a very narrowach along tlie coast, and so difficult to force,i afminst inferior numbers, that Cyrus had r\t it necessary to send for the fleet in order to> him to turn the flank of the enemy; but the |U«i was abandoned by the general of Aria-tea. One day's march of 5 parasangs broughtd t» Myriandrus (Mvpioyftpov), a mercantile cityhe Phoenicians, ou the sea. Four days' march,20 parasangi, to the river Chains (XaAos),•iiiing in a fish held sacred by the Syrians,•leys, or 30 parasangs, to the fountains of thetdax (mL Danles, Aopoiit), where were palaces park* uf Bclesys, governor of Syria. Three. 15 favmsmngs, to the city Thapsacus on theSra&ea (Amnk i. 4. §§ 4 — 18). It is to beirked that the 9 days' march of 50 jnrasangs'A Uit* ia said by Xenophon to have led throughi where he use* that term of the Aram Naha-, "f trie Scriptures, equivalent to Mesopotamia. V* places named by the historian in Syria Pro-l-.n* tuts been fully described [torn*]. Theim of the Cilician and Syrian gates is markedw» narrow ^suaage left between the btisc of themm and the sea, where the ruins of two wall*,■afrit by an interval of about 600 yards, still preserve the tradition of the fortifications mentionedin the narrative. The Census, however, now calledthe Merkez-su, appears to have been diverted fromits ancient channel, and runs to the sea in twoemail streams, one to the north of the northern wall,the other to the south of tho southern. The siteof Myriandrus has not yet been positively determined,but it must have been situated about half-waybetween Iskttnderun (Alexandria) and Anus (Rho-eus), as Strabo also intimates (see below). Fromthis point the army must have crossed the Amanusby the BeVan pass, and have marched through theplain of 'L'nik, north of the lake of Antioch, wherethree fonlabie rivers, theLabotas(A'aro-iw).theOeno.paras (AswdU), and the Arceuthus ('AJfrm), musthave been crossed on their inarch; which, however,are unnoticed by the historian. The river Chains,with its sacred fish, is identified with the Chaltb orKoireik, the river of Aleppo, the principal tributaryto which in the mountains is still called liatokhi-su, or Fish-river. The veneration of fish by theSyrians is mentioned also by Di odor us, I.ncian, andother ancient writers. (Ainsworth, Travel* m theTrack of the Ten Thousand, pp. 57— 65.) Thesource of the river I>aradax, with the palaces andparks of Belesys, 30 parasangs, or 90 geographicalmile--, from Chains, is marked by an ancient sitecalled to the present day Ha lis," peculiarly positionedwith regard to the Euphrates, and at a point when*that river would be first approached on coming acn*sNorthern Syria in a direct line trending a little south­ward, and corresponding at the same time with thedistances given by Xenophon." (Ainsworth, /. c. p.66.) The ruins of a Roman castle, built upon amound of ruins of greater antiquity, doubtless pre­serve the site of thesutmp's palace; while the rich andproductive alluvial soil of the plain around, coveredwith grasses, flowering plants, jungle, and shrubs, andabounding in game, such as wild boars, frant-oliii,quails, landrails, Ac, represents '* the very large andbeautiful paradise:" the river Daradax, however, isreduced to a canal cut from the Kuphrates, about amile distant, which separated the large park fromthe mainland; and Mr. Ainsworth thinks that thefact of the fountain being 100 feet wide at its source,"tends to show that the origin of a canal ts meant,rather than tho source of a liver" (p. 67. n. IXThapt-acus is described in a separate article. [Thap­sacus.] Par more full, but still unsatisfactory, is the de­scription of Syria given by Strabo, a comparisonof which with the later notices of Pliny and Ptolemy,illustrated by earlier histories and subsequent Itine­raries, will furnish as complete a view of the c lassi­cal geography of the country as the existing mate­rials allow. The notices of Phoenicia, necessarilyintermingled with those of Syria, are here omitted ashaving been considered in a separate article [Phoe­nicia]. On the north Syria was separated frontCilicia by Mons A man us. From the sea at thegulf of Issus to the bridge of the Euphrates inCommagene was a distance of 1400 stadia. On tin*east of the Kuphrates, it was bounded by the SceniteArabs, on the south by Arabia Felix and Egypt, onthe west by the Egyptian sea as far as Issns(xvi. p. 749). He divides it into the following dis­tricts, commencing on the north: Commagene;Seleucis of Syria; Coelcsyria; P hoe nice on the coast;Jmlaca inland. Commagene was a small terri­tory, having Samosata for its capital, surroundedby a rich country. Sclcucis, the fortress nf Mexipe- 'i 7.