OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. eagles, the true wood of the holy cross was restored tothe importunate demands of the successor of Constantine.The victor was not ambitious of enlarging the weaknessof the empire; the son of Chosroes abandoned withoutregret the conquests of his father; the Persians who eva­cuated, the cities of Syria and Egypt were honourably con­ducted to the frontier, and a war which had wounded theVitals of the two monarchies, produced no change in theirexternal and relative situation. The return of Heracliusfrom Tauris to Constantinople was a perpetual triumph;and after the exploits of six glorious campaigns, he peace­ably enjoyed the sabbath of his toils. After a long im­patience, the senate, the clergy, and the people, went forthto meet their hero, with tears and acclamations, with olivebranches and innumerable lamps: he entered the capitalin a chariot drawn by four elephants; and as soon as theemperor could disengage himself from the tumult of pub­lic joy, he tasted more genuine satisfaction in the em­braces of his mother and his son.3 The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumph of avery different kind, the restitution of the true cross tothe holy sepulchre. Heraclius performed in person thepilgrimage of Jerusalem, the identity of the relic was ve­rified by the discreet patriarch,' and this august ceremonyhas been commemorated by the annual festival of theexaltation of the cross. Before the emperor presumedto tread the consecrated ground, he was instructed tostrip himself of the diadem and purple, the pomp and va­nity of the world: but in the judgment of his clergy, thepersecution of the Jews was more easily reconciled withthe precepts of the gospel. He again ascended his throneto receive the congratulations of the ambassadors of • The burden of Corneille's song, "Montrez Heraclius au people qui Tattend,"is muoh better suited to the present occasion. See his triumph in Theophanes,(p. 272, 273.) and Nicephorus, (p. 15, 16.) The life of the mother and tendernessof the son are attested by George of Pisidia, (Bell. Abar. 255, &o. p. 49.) The me­taphor of the sabbath is used, somewhat profanely, by these Byzantine Christians. 'See Baronius, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 628. no. 1—4.) Entycliiiis, (Annal. torn. 2.p. 240—248.) Nicephorus, (Brev. p. 15.) The seals of the case had never beenbroken ; and this preservation of Ute cross is ascribed (under God) to the devotionof queen Sira.