OCR Output 41G NEMAUSUS-NEMEA. duct tin* waters of the springs of the Evrt and AizanDear I'zt's, were brought toNematuns. The river Gor­don, the ancient Vardo, is deep just alum* the aque­duct. The channel is sunk between rugged rocks,on which scattered shrubs prow. The river rises inthe CVnewtes, and i.s subject to floods, which wouldhave destroyed a less solid structure than thislioman bridge. The bridge is built where the valleyis contracted by the rocks, and in its ordinary stateall the water passes under one arch. The best viewof the bridge is from the side above it. The otherBide is disfigured by a modern structure of the samedimensions as the lower range of arches; it is abridge attached to the lower arches of the Romanbridge, and is used for the passage of carts andhorses over the Gordon. There are three tiers of arches. The lowest tierconsists of six arches; that under which the waterflows is the largest. The width of this arch is saidto bo about ,r><) English feet, and the height fromthe surface of the water is about 65 fret. Thesecond tier contains eleven arches, six of which cor­respond to those below, but they appear to be wider,itnd the piers are not so thick as those of the lowesttier. The height of the second tier is said to beabout 6-1 feet; but some of these dimensions mayrmt be very accurate. The third tier has thirty-five arches, or thereabouts, making a length, u it asaid, of about 870 English feet. It U about Mfeet high to the top of the creat slabs u£ sUatwhich cover it. These slabs lie across the anasin whic h the water was conveyed over tbt ritir,and they project a little so as to fnrra a cornea.The whole height of the three tiers, if the 'fltoldimensions arc correctly given, is about 155 fobIt is generally said that the bridge is eatirdjbuilt of stones, without mortar or cement. Thtstones of the two lower tiers are without craea;but the arches of the highest tier, which are baftof much smaller stones, are cemented. At tatnorth end of the aqueduct the highest tier of 1and the water channel are higher than the gon which the aqueduct abuts, and there most Ibeen a continuation of small arches along the to]this hill; but there are no traces of them, at 1near the bridge. On the opposite or south aditaqueduct abuts against the hill, whichthan the level of the channel. There is notthe hiil having been pierced; and an inUman, who lives near the bridge, says that 1aqueduct was carried round the hill, andpierced another hill further on, where the tastill exists. ROMAN ACil EDLCT NEAR NI.M Vt SI S, TlOW Called THE PONT DO GAUD. The stone of this bridge is a yellowish colour. 1Seen under the sun from the west side, the bridge |has a brightish yellow tint, with patches of darkColour, owing to the weather. The stone in thehighest tier is a concretion of shells and sand, andthat in the lower tiers appears to be the same. Inthe stones in the highest tier there are halves of abivalve shell completely preserved. The stone alsocontains lots of rough quartzose rock, and manysmall rounded pebbles. In the floods the Gordonrises 30 feet above its ordinary level, and thewater will then pass under all the arches of thelowest tier. The piers of this tier show some marksof being worn by the water. But the bridge is stillfcolid and strong, a magnificent monument of thegrandeur of lioman conceptions, and of the boldnessof their execution. There are many works which treat of the an­tiquities of Affsssa. Some are quoted anil extractsfrom them are printed in the Guide tht Voyagemrtpar Richard and K. Hocquart. [G.L.] NEMEA {!} Nf/if'a, Ion. N«^f'ij: Adj. N«?tfi05, Bekker; r\ XapdSpa, Xen. Hell. ir. 2. § 15.)titftwuos, Nemeaeus), the name of a valley in the mountains, which enclose the valley, bar* , territory of Cleonae, where Hercules slew the Ne- natural caverns, one of which, at the I mean lion, and where the Neinean games were stadia from the sacred grove of Nemea, andCelebrated every other year. It is described by road named Tret us, from the Utter place tolStrabo as situated between Cleonae and Phlins was pointed out as the cave of the(viii. p. .177). The valley lies in a direction (Pans. ii. 15. § 2.) nearly north and south, and is about two or three , The name of Nemea was strictly appliedmiles long, and from half to three quarters of a mile sacred grove in which the games went iin breadth. It is shut hi on every side by moon- Like Olympia and the sanctuary at tbe t tains, and is hence called by Pindar a do(0a6vn(5os% .Vera. iii. IS.) There is a renmountain on the NE., called in ancientAPZSAS ('Airt'-ros), now Fuka, nearlyhigh, with a fiat summit, which is visible from Jand Corinth. On this mountain Perseus ishave first sacrificed to Zeus Apesantius. (I15. § 3; Staph. H. s. p. *A*f>as; SUL'4G0. seq.) Theocritus rives Xemea the «u well-watered" (tvvbpov Nfjx*7jtxxv. 182). Several rivulets descend from 1rounding mountains, which collect in theform a river, which flows northward thrridges of Apesas, and falls into the Corint]forming in the lower part of its sonrce the Ibetween the territories of Sicyon and Conntla,river also bore the name of Ketuea (StJp. 3S2; Died. xiv. 83; Liv. xxiiii. 15); 1was dependent for its supply of waterseason of the year, it was sometime* called tmean Chandra. (Aesch. dt Fals. Let}. %11..1.1 a «. j» v "•» • - * - -