OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 299 maintain the public order; and peaceably to conduct chap. the army to the city of Nice in Bithynia, which was '_ chosen for the place of the election*. In a solemnassembly of the civil and military powers of the em­pire, the diadem was again unanimously offered tothe praefect Sallust. He enjoyed the glory of asecond refusal: and when the virtues of the fatherwere alleged in favour of his son, the praefect, withthe firmness of a disinterested patriot, declared to theelectors, that the feeble age of the one, and the unex­perienced youth of the other, were equally incapableof the laborious duties of government. Several can­didates were proposed; and, after weighing the objec­tions of character or situation, they were successivelyrejected: but as soon as the name of Valentinianwas. pronounced, the merit of that officer united thesuffrages of the whole assembly, and obtained thesincere approbation of Sallust himself. Valentinian f Electionwas the son of count Gratian, a native of Cibalis, in r"cter &Pannonia, who, from an obscure condition, had raised Vaieim- '' 1 man. himself, by matchless strength and dexterity, to themilitary commands of Africa and Britain; from whichhe retired, with an ample fortune and suspicious inte­grity. The rank and services of Gratian contributed,however, to smooth the first steps of the promotionof his son; and afforded him an early opportunityof displaying those solid and useful qualifications,which raised his character above the ordinary levelof his fellow-soldiers. The person of Valentinian wastall, graceful, and majestic. His manly countenance,deeply marked with the impression of sense and spirit, "Ammianus, xxvi. 1. Zosimus, l . iii. p. 198. Philostorgius, 1. viii. c. 8.and Godefroy, Dissertat. p. 334. Philostorgius, who appears to have obtainedsome curious and authentic intelligence, ascribes the choice of Valentinian to thePraefect Sallust, the master-general Arintheus, Degalaiphus count of the domestics,and the Patrician Datianus, whose pressing recommendations from Ancyra hada weighty influence in the election. t Ammiamis (xxx. 7, 9.), and the younger Victor, have furnished the por.trait of Valentinian; which naturally precedes and illustrates the history of hisreign.