OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 115 rose up and called for those seven who had the interpretation ofthe laws committed to them, and accused his wife, and said,that he had been affronted by her, because that when she wasfrequently called by him to his feast, she did not obey him once,He therefore gave order, that they should inform him what couldbe done by the law against her. So one of them, whose namewas Memucan, said, That "this affront was offered not to him"alone, but to all the Persians, who were in danger of leading"their lives very ill with their wives, if they must be thus des-"pised by them; for that none of their wives would have any"reverence for their husbands, if they had such an example of"arrogance in the queen towards thee, who rulest over all."Accordingly, he exhorted him to punish her, who had beenguilty of so great an affront to him, after a severe manner; andwhen he had so done, to publish to the nations what had beendecreed about the queen. So the resolution was to put Vashtiaway, and to give her digniiy to another woman. 2. But the king having been fond of her, did not well bear aseparation, and yet by the law he could not admit of a reconci­liation, so he was under trouble, as not having it in his powerto do what he desired to do. But when his friends saw him souneasy, they advised him to cast the memory of his wife, andhis love for her, out of his mind, but to send abroad over all'the habitable earth, and to search out for comely virgins, and totake her whom he should like best for a wife, because his pas­sion for his former wife would be quenched by the introductionof another, and the kindness he had to Vashti would be with­drawn from her, and be placed on her that was with him. Ac­cordingly, he was persuaded to follow this advice, and gave or­der to certain persons to choose out of the virgins that were inhis kingdom those that were esteemed the most comely. So whena great number of these virgins were gathered together, therewas found a damsel in Babylon, both whose parents were dead,and she was brought up with her uncle Mordecai, for that washer uncle's name. This uncle was of the tribe of Benjamin, andwas one of the principal persons among the Jews. Now it provedthat this damsel, whose name was Esther, was the most beau­tiful of all the rest, and that the grace of her countenance drewthe eyes of the spectators principally upon her: So she was com­mitted to one of the eunuchs to take the care of her: and shewas very exactly provided with sweet odours, in great plenty,and with costly ointments, such as her body required to beanointed withal: and this was used for six months by the vir­gins, who were in number four hundred. And when the eu­nuch thought the virgins had been sufficiently purified, in theforementioned time, and were now fit to go to the king's bed, VOL. u. p 19