OCR Output 394 T1TCS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. them time to recede from a resolution in which theyhad discovered too much obstinacy; but as the dangersof war were too importunate to admit of delay, he wouldprefer the interest of the state to the favour of bis Col­leagues; and if the senate persisted in their resolu­tion, lie would name a dictator that very night; and ifany should oppose the senate's decree, he would con­sider their authority as sufficient for his purpose."When by this declaration, he ltad gained the just ap­plause and favour of all ranks, he named P. Corneliasdictator, by whom he was also .declared general of thehorse, which'may convince any one, who will comparehis conduct with that of his colleagues. that those who donot court respect and honour, are sometimes in the wayto both. The war was not considerable. For the enemy wasrouted at Antium, in one engagement, and that a veryslight one. The victorious army laid waste the countryof the Volsci, and took a fort upon "the lake Fucinus,where they made three thousand prisoners; the rest ofthe Volsci being obliged to take refuge within theirwalled towns, and leave their country to be ravaged bythe enemy. The dictator having finished this war in such a man­ner, as made it appear that he had neglected no oppor­tunity fortune put in his way, he returned to Rome withmore success than glory, and resigned his office. Themilitary tribunes, without the least mention of a consu-lar comitia, very probably out of resentment because adictator had been created, proclaimed the assembliesfor the election of military tribunes. The fathers werethe more sensibly piqued at this proceeding, as they sawthemselves betrayed by their own party. 'Wherefore asthey had, the preceding year, created a disgust amongthe Plebeians at the better sort of their order, by settingup for candidates mere tatterdemalions, so now, havingprevailed with those of the Patricians who were mosteminent for the popularity and lustre oftheir families,to appear as candidates, they secured all the places, andgave not the least chance to a Plebeian. There werefour elected, who had all filled that office before, L.Fiurius Medultinus, C. Valerius Potitus, Numerius Fa­