OCR Output THE PECLINE AND FALL and the twoAntonines. almost a perpetual journey; and as he possessed the various talentsof the soldier, the. statesman, and the scholar, he gratified his cu­riosity in the discharge of his duty. Careless of the difference ofseasons and of climates, he marched on foot, and bare-headed, overthe snows of Caledonia, and the sultry plains of the Upper Egypt;nor was there a province of the empire, which, in the course of hisreign, was not honoured with the presence of the monarch,s.But the tranquil life of Antoninus Pius was spent in the bosom ofItaly; and, during the twenty-three years that he directed the publicadministration, the longest journies of that amiable prince, wereno more than from his palace in Rome> to the retirement of hisLanuvian Villal5. ImalmT Nowithstanding this difference in their personal conduct, thegeneral system of Augustus was equally adopted and uniformlypursued by Hadrian and by the two Antonines. "They persisted inthe design of maintaining the dignity of the empire, without at­tempting to enlarge its limits. By every honourable expedient theyinvited the friendship of the barbarians; and endeavoured toconvince mankind, that the Roman power, raised above the tempta­tion of conquest, was actuated only by the love of order and justice.During a long period of forty-three years their virtuous labourswere crowned with success; and if we except a few flight hostili­ties that served to exercise the legions of the frontier, the reigns ofHadrian and Antoninus Pius offer the fair prospect of universalpeace 11. The Roman name was revered among the most re­mote nations of the earth. The fiercest barbarians frequently sub­mitted their differences to the arbitration of the emperor, and weare informed by a cotemporary historian, that he had seen am­bassadors who were refused the honour which they came to solicit,of being admitted into the rank of subjectsl8.Defensive The terror of the Roman arms added weight and dignity to theMsAwoni!'" moderation of the emperors. They preserved peace by a constantnus* - preparation