OCR Output CHAP. 32. 'ROMAN HISTORY. 63 lence the Roman ambassadors sent to demand satisfaction,imagining, that the Roman king would waste his time inindolence among the chapels and altars. The spirit of Ancus seemed to partake equally of thegenius of Numa and Romulus. He easily saw that pacificmeasures, in the reign of his grandfather, when the peo­ple, naturally fierce, had been but lately settled, wasthe best policy; but how, it would be no easy matter forhim, to enjoy the peace which had distinguished hisgrandfather's reign, unless he should resolve tamely toput up with insults; that his patience had been alreadytried, and his good nature despised ; for which reason, toRome, at present, a Tullus was more necessary than aNuma.—However, as Numa, in. time of peace, had in­stituted the ritual, with respect to religion, the ceremo­nials, with respect to war, should be his care; that warmight neither be proclaimed, nor carried on, but in pro­per form. From the ancient nation of the Equicoloe,*he borrowed that ceremony, observed by the heratds,even at this day, when satisfaction is demanded. Theambassador, the moment he reaches the frontiers of thatpeople, upon whom he is to make the demand, his headbeing covered with a woollen cap, cries out, "Give ear"O Jupiter; hear ye confines, [naming the country ;]"let justice hear. I am the public ambassador of the"Uoman people; I come with a legal and just coiamis-"sion; let credit be given to what I say." Then hemakes his demand, and takes Jupiter to witness. "If I"with any fraudulent, or wicked intent, demand these"persons and these effects to be restored to me, then"may I never return to nry country again." These words he repeats, as he enters the frontiers, tothe first'man he meets, as he enters the gates of the city,and as he goes into the market place, with the variationof a few words in the Form of the speech and oath. Ifhis demand be not satisfied, in thirty-three days aftersuch requisition, for so many days are allowed, he thendeclares war, in words to the following effect: " Hear,"O Jupiter; and you, O Juno, Romulus, and all ye"gods in heaven, in earth, and hell, give ear; I take • A highland people, inhabiting tbe hills above the Tiber.