OCR Output loO LIVY. which dreaded the unknown sands and flats more thanthey did the Romans, and which showed a greatereagerness to escape into the deep, than to make re­sistance. The soldiers pursued them as far as the' mouth of the river; and having taken and burned apart of the fleet, which, in the hurry and confusion, hadbeen stranded, returned victorious. Cleonymus, hav­ing met success in no part of the Adriatic sea, de­parted with scarce a fifth part of his navy remaining.Many, now alive, have seen the beaks of his ships,and the spoils of the Lacedaemonians, hanging in theold temple of Juno. In commemoration of this eventthere is exhibited at Patavium, every year on its an­niversary day, a naval combat on the river in themiddle of the town. 3. A treaty was this year concluded at Rome withthe Vestinians, who solicited friendship. Variouscauses of apprehension afterwards sprung up. Newsarrived that Etruria was in rebellion the insurrec­tion having arisen from the dissentions of the Arre-tians; for the Cilnian family having grown exorbi­tantly powerful, a party, out of envy of their wealth,had attempted to expel them by force of arms. Ac­counts were also received that the Marsians heldforcible possession of the lands to which the colony ofCarseoli, consisting of four thousand men, had beensent. By reason therefore of these commotions Mar­cus Valerius Maximus was nominated dictator, andchose for his master of the horse Marcus /EmiliusPaullus. This I am inclined to believe, rather thanthat Quintus Fabius, at such an age as he then was,and after enjoying many honors, was placed in a sta­tion subordinate to Valerius: but I think it not un­likely that the mistake arose from the surname Maxi­mus. The dictator, taking the field at the head of anarmy, in one battle utterly defeated the Marsians,drove them into their fortified towns, and afterwards,in {be course of a few days, took Milionia, Plestina,and Fresilia; and then fining this people in a partof their lands, granted them a renewal of the treaty.