OCR Output MEGAHA. 31.3 MEGARA. ware admitted within the Long Walls by their friendsin Mt*gara, and after a siege of two days they tookKisses-* Megara was saved by Brasidas, who ad­vanced to the relief of the city with a large Pelo-poannian force, and, after offering battle to theAthenians, which they declined, was admittedwithin the city. The aristocratical exiles were nowrecalled, and a strict and exclusive oligarchy esta­blished, which lasted for some time. (Time. iv. 66—74.) A few months afterwards the Megarianscaptured the Long Walls from the Athenians andlevelled them to the ground; but the Atheniansstill continued to hold Nisaea and Minoa. (Time.iv. 109.) In the trace concluded between theAthenians and Peloponnesians in the following year,it was settled that the line of demarcation betweenthe Athenians in Nisaea and Minoa, on one side,and the Megarians and their allies in Megara, onthe other, should be the road leading from the gateof Nisaea near the monument of Nisus to the Posei-donium or temple of Poseidon, and from the latter ina straight line to the causeway leading to Minoa.(Thoc.iv. 117.) From this time Megara is seldom mentioned inGrecian history. Its prosperous condition at a laterperiod is extolled by Isocrates, who says that it pos­sessed the largest houses of any city in Greece, andthat it remained at peace, though placed betweenthe Peloponnesians, Thebans, and Athenians. (Isocr.A Pac. p. 183, ed. Steph.) Megara surrendered toPhilip after the battle of Chaeroneia. (Aelian,V. U. vi. I.) After the death of Alexander it wasfor some time in the power of Cassander; but hisgarrison was expelled by Demetrius Poliorcetes, whoproclaimed the freedom of the city B.C. 307. (Diod.ii. 46; Pint. Demttr. 9.) Subsequently it againpu.*d into the hands of the Macedonian kings, butit was united by Aratus to the Achaean League.(Polvb. ii. 43.) In the war between the AchaeanLeague and the Romans, Megara surrendered toMfkIIos without a contest. (Paus. vii. 15. § 11.)It is mentioned by Sulpicius, in his well-knownletter to Cicero (md Fum. iv. 5), as one of the ruinedcities of Greece. It still existed in the time ofStrabo (ix. p. 393), and it was subsequently made aRoman colony. (Plin. iv. 7. a. 11.) Pausaniasrelates that it was the only city of Greece whichHadrian refused to assist, on account of the murderby iu inliabitanta of Anthetnocritus, the Athenianherald (Paus. i. 36. § 3); but we learn from in­scriptions that a new tribe at Megara was calledAiirianU, in honour of the emperor, and that Sabina,the emperor's wife, was worshipped here under thetitle of »« An^r,TTjp (Bockh, laser, vol. i. p. 566);aad even Pausanias himself describes a temple ofApollo of white marble, built by Hadrian (i. 42.J iy. It continued to coin money under the Anto-nrncs and subsequent emperors; and it appears intite Tabula Peuting. as a considerable place. Inthe fifth century its fortifications were repaired byI'i"eenes, an officer of the emperor Anastasius(Chandler, Inter. Ant. 130); but from this time itapprars to have rapidly sunk, and was frequentlyplundered by the pirates of the Mediterranean. Megara was celebrated on account of its philo­sophical school, which was founded there by Ku- * On this occasion Thucydides (iv. 66) callsMegan i) tr* »o>it, in contradistinction to thepfft-ujwn. This expression cannot refer to the■BDfolii of Megara, as some critics interpret it. cleides, a disciple of Socrates.and which distinguisheditself chiefly by the cultivation of dialectics. Thephilosophers of this school were called the Megarici(oi MtyapiKol, Strab. ix. 393). It was also letscreditably distinguished for its courtezans, who werecalled Megarian Sphinxes. (Me^ooixol 3<piyyts,Suid. t. v.; comp. Plaut. Peri. i. 3. 57.) TheMegarians were addicted to the pleasures of thetable. (Tertnll. Apolog. 39.) They had a badcharacter throughout Greece, and were regardedas fraudulent, perfidious, and ignorant; but theymay have owed much of this bad character to therepresentations of their enemies, the Athenians.(Aelian, V. If. xii. 56; Sehol. ad Aristoph. Pac.248; Suid. s. v. Miyapiuv Sfioi ptpioos, i. e. con­temptible people.) Of the Megarian gHmes andfestivals we have three kinds mentioned; the Dio-clean, celebrated in honour of the hero Diocles(Sehol. ad Theocr. xii. 28; Schol. ad Pmd. 01.xiii. 155; Schol. ad Aristoph. Acharn. 774), theAlcathoan, celebrated in honour of Alcathous, andthe Smaller Pythian, in honour of the PythianApollo, whose worship was very ancient in Megara.(Philostr. Vit. Soph. i. 3; Schol. ad Pmd. Nan.v. 84, 01. xiii. 155; Krause, Die Pythien, Nemeenund hthmien, p. 66.) Dion Chrysostom (Orat. vi.) says that Megarais one day's journey from Athens, and Procopius{Bell. Vand. i. 1) makes it 210 stadia. Accordingto modern travellers the journey takes 8 hours.(Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 177.) iii. topography op tiie cltt and itsPort-town. Pausanias has given a particular description ofthe public buildings of Megara (Paus. i. 40, seq.).He begins his account with the aqueduct of Thea-genes, which was supplied with water from thefountain of the nymphs called Sithnides. Theaqueduct was remarkable for its magnitude andnumerous columns. Near it was an ancient temple,containing a statue of Artemis Soteira, statues ofthe twelve gods said to be by Praxiteles, and imagesof the Roman emperors. Beyond, in the Olympieium,or inclosure of Zeus Olympius, was a magnificenttemple, containing a statue of the god, which wasnever finished, owing to the distress occasioned bythe Athenians in the Peloponnesian War. Fromthence Pausanias ascended to the citadel, namedCaria, passing by a temple of Dionysus Nyctelius, asanctuary of Aphrodite Apostrophin, an oracle ofNight, and a roofless temple of Zeus Cronius.Here, also, was the Megarum, or temple of Deineter,said to have been founded by Car during his reign. Below the northern side of the Acropolis Cariawas the tomb of Alcmcna near the Olympieium.Hence Pausanias was conducted by his Megarianguide to a place called Rhus ('Pots; comp. Plut.Thes. 27), because the waters from the neighbouringmountains were collected here, until they wereturned off by Theagenes, who erected on the spotan altar to Achelous. It was probably this waterwhich supplied the fountain of the Sithnides. Nearthis place was the monument of Hyllas; and notfar from the latter were temples of lsis, ApolloAgraeus, and Artemis Agroteru, which was said tohave l>een dedicated by Alcathous after he hadslain the Cithaeronian lion. Below these were theheroum of Pandion, and .the monuments of Hip-polytc, queen of the Amazons, and Tercus, whomarried l'rucne.