OCR Output 188 THE ANNALS [A. U.C, 775. vered of those two deities. The tree was still to beseen in a flourishing state, and the grove became aconsecrated spot. It was there that Apollo, afterhaving slain the Cyclops, found a retreat from thevengeance of Jupiter; it was there that Bacchus, af­ter his victories, gave a free pardon to such of theAmazons as fled for protection to the altar; and itwas there that Hercules, having conquered Lydia,established a temple, with rites and ceremonies, whichneither the Persian kings, nor the Macedonian con­queror, presumed to violate. The Romans at all timespaid the strictest regard to the sanctity of the place. LXII. .The Magnesians were the next in order.They relied on the ordinances of Lucius Scipio, con­firmed and ratified by Lucius Sylla; the former vic­torious over Antiochus, and the latter over Mithri-datcs. In the wars which were waged under theirconduct, the Magnesians adhered with fidelity to thecause of Home; and to reward their services, thetemple of Diana Leucophryne was, by those com­manders, declared a sanctuary. The people of Aphro-disium, and also of Stratonice, produced a decree ofCsesar the dictator, and another of Augustus, com­memorating the zeal, with which those states with­stood the Parthian invasion, and preserved to the lasttheir attachment to the interest of Rome. The Aphro-disians claimed the temple of Venus; the Stratoni-ceans worshipped Jupiter and Diana Trivia. Thecity of Hierocsesarea deduced their ceremonies fromremote antiquity, alleging that they had for agesadored a Persian Diana, in a temple consecrated byCyrus. Several orders made by Pcrpenna, byIsauricus, and other Roman generals, were also cited,whereby it appeared that those sanctuaries, with aprecinct two miles round, were declared holy ground.The inhabitants of Cyprus claimed three sanctuaries;the first and most ancient, dedicated by Aerias to thePaphian Venus; the second, by Amathus, the son ofAerias, in honour of the Amathusian Venus; and tlisthird, to the Salaminian Jove, by Teucer, the son ofTelamon, when that hero was obliged to fly from th«rcge of his father