OCR Output 350 .' Decline And fall' [fcHAP. xlYv, freedomof the ma­trimonialo m tract. gamy was unknown, he could never admit to his ted afairer or more favoured partner. After the Punic triumphs, the matrons of Rome as­pired to the common benefits of a free and opulent re­public: their Wishes were gratified by the indulgence offathers and lovers, and their ambition was unsuccessfullyresisted by the gravity of Cato the Censor/ They de­clined the solemnities of the bid nuptials, defeated theannual prescription by an absence of three days, and-,without losing their name or independence, subscribed"the liberal and definite terms of a marriage-contractOf their private fortunes, they communicated the use,and secured the property; the estates of a wife couldneither be alienated nor mortgaged by a prodigal hus-<band; their mutual gifts were prohibited by the jealousyof the laws; and the misconduct of either party mightafford, under another name, a future subject for an acjtion of theft. To this loose and voluntary compact,religious and civil rites were no longer essential; and*between persons of a similar rank, the apparent commu­nity of life was allowed as sufficient evidence'of theirnuptials. The dignity of marriage was restored by theChristians, who derived all spiritual grace from the pray­ers of the faithful and the benediction of the priest orbishop. The origin, validity, and duties of the holy in­stitution, were regulated by the tradition of the syna­gogue, the precepts of the Gospel, and the canons'ofgeneral or provincial synods ;f and the conscience of theChristians was awed'by the decrees and censures of their But the student or doctor was free from tribute; and no wife, if she received a weeklysustenance, could sue for divorce: for one week a vow of abstinence was allowed.Polygamy divided, without multiplying, the duties of the hushand. (Selden.'Uxor.Ebraica, "lib. 3. c. 6. in his works, vol. 2. p. 717—720.) ■ On the Oppian law we may hear the mitigating speech of Valerius Flaccus, andthe severe censorial oration of the elder Cato, (Liv. 34. 1—8.) But we shall ra­ther hear the polished historian nf the eighth, than the rough orators of the sixth,century of Rome. The principles, and even the style, of Cato are more accuratelypreserved by Aulas Gellius. (10. 23.) f For the system of Jewish and Catholic matrimony, see Selden, (Uxor Ebraica,Opp. vol. 2. p. 529—860.) Bingham, (Christian Antiquities, lib. 2J.) and Chardot.(Hist, des Sacremens, tom. 6.)