OCR Output 210 ROMAN EMPIRE. lives of a temporal princte; the choice of magistrates,the exercise of justice, the imposition of taxes, and thewealth of the palace of Ravenna. In the dissolution ofthe Lombard kingdom, the inhabitants of the dutchy ofSpoleto* sought a refuge from the storm, shaved theirheads after the Roman fashion, declared themselves theservants and subjects of St. Peter, and completed, bythis voluntary surrender, the present circle of the eccle­siastical state. That mysterious circle was enlarged toan indefinite extent, by the verbal or written donationof Charlemagne/ who, in the first transports of his vit-tory, despoiled himself and the GreeTc emperor of thecities and islands which had formerly been annexed tothe exarchate. But in the cooler moments of absenceand reflection, he viewed, with an eye of jealousy andenvy, the recent greatness of his ecclesiastical airy. Theexecution of his own and his father's promises was re­spectfully eluded: the king of the Franks and the Lom­bards asserted the inalienable rights of the empire; and,in his life and death, Ravenna," as well as Rome, wasnumbered in the list of his metropolitan cities. Thesovereignty of the exarchate melted away in the handsof the popes; they found in the archbishops of Ravennaa dangerous and domestic rival;" the nobles and peopledisdained the yoke of a priest: and, in the disorders ofthe times, they could only retain the memory of an • Spoletini deprecati aunt, ut eos in servitio B. Petri reciperet et more Roma-norum tonsurari faceret. (Anastasius, p. 185.) Yet it may be a question whetherthey gave their own persons or their country. » The policy and donations of Charlemagne are carefully examined by St. Marc,(Abrige, torn. 1. p. 390—408.) who has well studied the Codex Carolinus. I be-lieve, with him, that they were only verbal. The moat ancient act of donation thatpretends to be extant, is that of the emperor Louis the Pious: (Signonius, de RegnoItaliae, lib. 4. Opera, torn. 2. p. 267—270.) its authenticity, or at least its integrity,are much questioned; (Pagi, A. D. 817, no. 7, &c Muratori, AnnaK, torn. 6. p. 43t,&c.T)issertat, Chorographica, p. 33,34.) but I see no reasonable objection to theseprinces so freely disposing of what was not their own. "Charlemagne solicited and obtained from the proprietor, Hadrian I. the mo­saics of the palace of Ravenna, for the decoration of Aix-la-Chapelle. (Cod.Carol in. epist. 67. p. 323.) * The popes often complain of the. usurpation of Leo of Ravenna: (Coder, Ca-rolin. epist. 51—53. p. 200—205.) Si corpus St. Andreas fratris germani St. Petrihie bwmasset, nequaquam.nos Romatii pontificca sic subjugassrnt. (Agnellus, LiberFontincalis, in Scriptores Rerum Ital. torn. 2. pars 1. p. 107.)