OCR Output CHAP. 63. ROMAN HISTORY. 197 stop to his design. What increased their wonder, wasthe sudden calm and serenity that ensued, the momenthe sounded the retreat: For they imagined, some deityhad interposed to save the camp, and their religiousscruples prevented them from making a second attempt;wherefore, all their fury was discharged upon the coun­try, which they plundered without opposition. Theother consul /Emilius, conducted the war against the Sa-bines, who confmed themselves within their walls: forthat reason, he laid waste their country, burning not onlythe farm-houses, but also large and populous villages.This forced the Sabines out of iheir strong-holds, who,meeting with a foraging party, had an engagement withthem; hut victory declaring for neither party; whenthey retired from the field, they marched oifnext day toa place of greater security. This the consul consideredas a sufficient victory in his favour; and upon their re­treat, returned home, leaving the war unfinished. D. CHAP. LXIII.War with the Volsci and jEqui. "URING these wars abroad, and civil commotionsat home, T. Numicius Priscus and A. Yirginius werechosen consuls. The commons seemed now resolved toadmit of no evasions with respect to the Agrarian law,anci were accordingly preparing to set every engine towork, when the flight of the country people, and thesmoke of the houses, all in flames, informed them, thatthe-Volsci were at hand. This invasion suppressed thesedition, which was now ripe, and on the point of break­ing out. . The senate obliged the consuls to march immediatelyagainst the enemy; and when the youth had once quit­ted the city, the rest of the people made no more noise.But the Volsci contented themselves with the pleasure ofhaving put the Romans in a needless fright, and withoutattempting any thing further, made all the haste theyeould out of their territories. Numicius pursued themto. Antium, and Virginius marched against the /Lqui.There the army fell into an ambush, and. narrowly escap­ed being cut to pieces.