OCR Output Chajl. Vf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 12S ** be able to be revenged of Mordecai, for that God was with"him." II. Now while these men were thus talking one to another,Esther's eunuchs hastened Haman away to come to supper; butone of the eunuchs named Sabuchadas, saw the gallows that wasfixed in Haman's house, and inquired of one of his servants, forwhat purpose they had prepared it? So he knew that it was forthe queen's uncle, because Haman was about to petition the kingthat he might be punished, but at present he held his peace.Now when the king, with Haman, were at the banquet, he de­sired the queen to tell him what gift she desired to obtain, andassured her that she should have whatsoever she had a mind to.She then lamented the danger her people were in; and said,that "she and her nation were given up to be destroyed, and"that she, on that account, made this her petition: that she"would not have troubled him if he had only given order that"they should be sold into bitter servitude, for such a misfortune"would not have been intolerable; but she desired that they"might be delivered from such a destruction." And when theking inquired of her who was the author of this misery to them?she then openly accused Haman, and convicted him, that hehad been the wicked instrument of this, and had formed hisplot against them.- When the king was hereupon in disorder,and was gone hastily out of the banquet into the gardens, Ha­man began to intercede with Esther, and to beseech her to for­give him, as to what he had offended, for he perceived that hewas in a very bad case. And as he had fallen upon the queen'sbed, and was making supplication to her, the king came in, andbeing still more provoked at what he saw, "O thou wretch,"said he, thou vilest of all mankind, dost thou aim to force"my wife?" And when Haman was astonished at this, andnot able to speak one word more, Sabuchadas the eunuch camein, and accused Haman and said, " He found a gallows at his"house prepared for Mordecai, for that the servant told him"so much upon his inquiry, when he was sent to him to call"him to supper." He said farther, "that the gallows was fifty"cubits high." Which when the king heard, he determined thatHaman should be punished after no other manner than thatwhich had been devised by him against Mordecai: so he gaveorder immediately that he should be hung upon this gallows,and be put to death after that manner. And from hence I can­not forbear to admire God, and to learn hence his wisdom andhis justice, not only in punishing the wickedness of Haman,but in so disposing it, that Ire should undergo the very samepunishment which he had contrived for another; as also, be­cause he thereby teaches others this lesson, that what mischiefs VOL. II g 19