OCR Output 120 [BOOR If. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the ambassadors, and told them that he washimself willing and desirous to comply withtheir request, but that God was opposite tohis intentions, even that God who had raisedhim to great reputation on account of thetruth of his predictions. For that this armywhich they entreated him to come to curse,was in favour of God. On which account headvised them to go home again, and not topersist in their enmity against the Israelites.And when he had given them that answer, hedismissed the ambassadors. Now the Midianites, at the earnest en­treaties of Balak, sent other ambassadors toBalaam, who, desiring to gratify the men, in­quired again of God; but he was displeasedat this second trial, and bid him by no meansto contradict the ambassadors. Balaam didnot imagine that God gave this injunction inorder to deceive him; so he went along withthe ambassadors. But when the Divine angelmet him in the way, when he was in a narrowpassage, and edged in with a wall on bothsides, the ass on which Balaam rode, under­stood that it was a Divine spirit that met him;and thrust Balaam to one of the walls, with­out regard to the stripes which her master,when he was hurt by the wall, gave her. Butwhen the ass, upon the angel's continuing todistress her, and upon the stripes which were given her, fell down; by the will of God shemade use of the voice of a man, and com­plained of Balaam, as acting unjustly to her;that whereas he had no fault to find with herin her former service, he now inflicted stripesupon her, as not understanding that she washindered from serving him in what he wasnow going about by the providence of God.And when he was disturbed by reason of thevoice of the ass, which was that of a man, theangel plainly appeared to him,* and blamedhim for the stripes he had given his ass; in*forming him, that the creature was not in fault,but that he was himself come to obstruct hisjourney, as being contrary to the will of God.Upon this Balaam was afraid, and was pre­paring to return back, yet God excited him togo on his intended way; but added this in­junction, that he should declare nothing, butwhat he himself should suggest.f When God had given him this-charge, theprophet came to Balak; and after the kinghad entertained him in a magnificent manner,he desired him to go to one of the mountains,to take a view of the state of the camp of theHebrews. Balak himself also came to themountain, and brought the prophet alongwith him, with a royal attendance. Thismountain lay over their heads, and was dis­tant sixty furlongs from the camp.J He then * Numb. xxii. 31. "Then the Lord opened the eyesof Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in theway." There are several instances to be found, both inthe scriptures and in profane authors, where the eyeshave been opened by a divine power to perceive thatwhich they could not see by mere natural discernment.Thus the eyes of Hagar were opened, that she might seethe fountain, Gen. xxi. 19. Homer also presents us withan example of this kind. Minerva says to Diomed: Yet more from mortal mists I purge thy eyes,And set to view the warring deities. II. v. 164. Pope.And in Virgil, Venus performs the same office to iEneas,and shews him the gods who were engaged in the destruc­tion of Troy.Aspice; namque omnem, quae nunc obducta tuentiMortales hebetat visus tibi, ethumida circum, &c. JEn. ii. 604.Now cast your eyes around: while I dissolveThe mists and films that mortal eyes involve;Purge from your sight the dross, and make you seeThe shape of each avenging deity. Dryde.w Milton seems likewise to have imitated this, when hemakes Michael open Adam's eyes to see the future revo­lutions of the world, and the fortunes of his posterity. then purg'd with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had much to see, And from the well of life three drops instill'd. Paradise Lost, b. xi. 414. B. t Note that Josephus never supposes Balaam to be anidolater, nor to seek idolatrous enchantments, or to pro­phesy falsely, but to be no other than an ill-disposed pro­phet of the true God: and intimates that God's answer thesecond time, permitting him to go, was ironical, and ondesign that he should be deceived; which sort of decep­tion, by way of punishment for former crimes, Josephusnever scruples to admit; as ever esteeming such wickedmen justly and providentially deceived. But perhaps wehad better to adhere closely to the text; which says,Numb, xxiii. 20, 21, that God only permitted Balaam togo along with, or in the Septuagint version, to follow, theambassadors, in case they came and called him; or posi­tively insisted on his going along with them, on any terms.Whereas Balaam seems, out of impatience, to have risenup in the morning and saddled his ass, and rather to havecalled them, than staid for their calling him. So zealousdoes he seem to have been for his reward of divination,his wages of unrighteousness. Numb. xxii. 7, 17,18, 37.2 Pet. ii. 15. Jude 11. which reward or wages the trulyreligious prophets of God never required, nor accepted;as Josephus justly takes notice in the cases of Samuel,Antiq. VI. 4, and Daniel, Antiq. X. 17. See also Gen.xiv. 23, 24. 2 Kings v. 15, 16, 26. and Acts viii. 18—24. % Balaam required seven altars to be built, and suitable