OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 407 (ii. 362-393) were not altered, but merely further and moredistinctly developed. In agriculture we have already seen Agricul-that the growing power of Roman capital was gradually ture.absorbing the intermediate and small landed estates in Italy aswell as in the provinces, as the sun absorbs the drops of rain.The government not only looked on without preventing,but even promoted this injurious division of the soil by par­ticular measures, especially by prohibiting the productionof wine and oil beyond the Alps with a view to favour thegreat Italian landlords and merchants.* It is true thatboth the opposition and the fraction of the conservativesthat entered into ideas of reform worked energetically tocounteract the evil; the two Gracchi, by carrying out thedistribution of almost the whole domain land, gave to thestate 80,000 new Italian farmers; Sulla, by settling 120,000colonists in Italy, filled up at least in part the gaps whichthe revolution and he himself had made in the ranks of theItalian yeomen. But, when a vessel is emptying itself byconstant efflux, the evil is to be remedied not by pour­ing in even considerable quantities, but only by the esta­blishment of a constant influx—a remedy which was oftensought for, but never with success. In the provinces, noteven the smallest effort was made to save the farmer classthere from being bought out by the Roman speculators; theprovincials were merely men, and belonged to no party. Theconsequence was, that even the rents of the soil beyond Italyflowed more and more to Rome. Moreover the plantation-system, which about the middle of this epoch had alreadygained the ascendant even in particular districts of Italy,such as Etruria, had, through the co-operation of an ener­getic and methodical management and abundant pecuniaryresources, attained to a state of high prosperity after itskind. The production of Italian wine in particular, whichwas artificially promoted partly by the opening of forcedmarkets in a portion of the provinces, partly by the pro­hibition of foreign wines in Italy as expressed for instancein the sumptuary law of 593, attained very considerable 16J.results: the Aminean and Falernian wine began to be * P. 167. With this may be connected the remark of the Roman agricul­turist, Saserna, who lived after Cato and before Varro (ap. Colum. i. 1, 5), thatthe culture of the vine and olive was constantly moving further to the north.The decree of the senate as to the translation of the treatise of Mago (P. 83),belongs also to this class of measures.