OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. £ distinguished by the female virtues of mildness and fi­delity; she followed her husband in his exile, and afterhis restoration Bhe implored his clemency in favour ofher mother. On the decease of Zeno, Ariadne, thedaugh-ter, the mother, and the widow, of an emperor, gave her or Amuta-hand and the imperial title to Anastasius, an aged do- JSJl^isjmesticof the palace, who survived his elevation above f^"'twenty-seven years, and whose character is attested by"the acclamation of the people,—" Reign as you havelived J"1 Whatever fear or affection could bestow, was pro- service andfusely lavished by Zeno on the king of the Ostrogoths; TWom.the rank of patrician and consul, the command of the ^J^*75Palatine troops, an equestrian statue, a treasure in goldand silver of many thousand pounds, the name of son,and the promise of a rich and honourable wife. As longas Theodoric condescended to serve, he supported withcourage and fidelity the cause of his benefactor: his ra­pid march contributed to the restoration of Zeno; andin the second revolt, the fValamirs, as they were called,pursued and pressed the Asiatic rebels, till they left an easyvictory to the imperial troops.*1 But the faithful servantwas suddenly converted into a formidable enemy, whospread the flames of war from Constantinople to the.Adriatic; many flourishing cities were reduced to ashes,and the agriculture of Thrace was almost extirpated bythe wanton cruelty of the Goths, who deprived theircaptive peasants of the right hand that guided theplough.' On such occasions, Theodoric sustained the 1 The contemporary histories of Malchns and Candidas ate lost; bnt some ex­tracts or fragments have been saved by Fhotius, (78, 79. p. 100—102.) ConstantinoPorphyrogenitns, (Excerpt. Leg. p. 78—97.) and in various articles of the Lexiconof Suidas. The Chronicle of Marcellinns (Imago Historic) are originals for the*reigns of Zeno and Anastasins; and I most acknowledge, almost for the last time,my obligations to the large and accurate collections of Tillemont. (Hist, deS Emp.torn. 6. p. 472—652.) * In ipsis congressionis luae foribns cessit invasor, cum prafugo per te sceptra red-deretttar de salute dubilanti. Ennodius then proceeds (p. 1596,1597. torn. 1. Sir-mond.) to transport his hero (on a flying dragon?) into ^Ethiopia, beyond the tropinof Cancer. The evidence of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 717.) Liberates, (Brev.Eolych. c. 25. p. 118.) and Theophanes, (p. 12.) it more sober and rational. 1 This ernel practice is specially imputed to the Triarian Goths, less barbarous,