OCR Output NEMAUSUS. NEMAUSUS. 415 tree, which may probably commemorate the conquestof Egypt; on the other are two heads, supposed tobe Augustus and Agrippa, witli the inscription imp.r. p. divi. v. This medal has also been found inother places. It is figured below. COfit OP NEMAUSUS. Sine* contains many memorials of its Romansplendour. The amphitheatre, which is in goodpreservation, is larger than that of Verona in Italy;and it is estimated that it would contain 17,000prims. It stands in an open space, cleared of allbuildings and obstructions. It has not the massiveand imposing appearance of the amphitheatre ofAria; but it is more complete. A man may makethe circuit on the flat which runs round the upperstory, except for about one-sixth of the circuit,there the cornice and the flat are broken down. The greater diameter is about 437 Englith feet,which includes the thickness of the walls. Theexterior height on the outside is nearly 70 Englishfert. The exterior face of the building consists of a(round story, and a story above, which is crownedby an attic. There are sixty well proportioned arches in the ground story, all of the same sizoexcept four entrances, larger than the rest, whichcorrespond to the four cardinal points. These archesopen on a gallery, which runs all round the interiorof the building. The story above has also sixtyarches. All along the circumference of the atliuthero are consoles, placed at equal distances, twoand two, and pierced in the middle by round hides.These holes received the poles which supported anawning to shelter the spectators from the sun andrain. When it was complete, there were thirty rowsof seats in the interior. At present there are onlyseventeen. The stones of the upper seats are ofenormous dimensions, some of them 12 feet long,and 2 feet in width. The temple now called the Maison Carree is aparallelogram on the plan, about 76 English feetlong, and 40 wide. It is what is called pseudo-peripteral, with thirty Corinthian fluted pillars, allof which are engaged in the walls, except six ontho face and two on each side of tho front portico,ten in all. The portico has, consequently, a con­siderable depth compared with the width. Thecolumns are ten diameters and a quarter in height.The temple is highly enriched in a good style.Se'guier (1758) attempted to prove that thistemple was dedicated to C. and L. Caesar, the sonaof Agrippa by Julia the daughter of Augustus.But M. Auguste l'e'lct has within the present cen -tury shown that it was dedicated to M. Aureliusand L. Verus. The excavations which have beenmade round the Maison Carree since 1821 showthat it was once surrounded by a colonnade, whichseems to have been the boundary of a forum, withinwhich the temple was placed. The Maison Carree,after having passed through many hands, and beenapplied to many purposes, is now a museum ofpainting and antiquities. Arthur Young (Travel*in France, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 48) says "that theMaison Carree is beyond comparison tiie most light,elegant, and pleasing building I ever beheld."Nobody will contradict this. TEMPLE AT NEMAUSUS, now The famous fountain of Nemausus, which Auso-nins mentions (0ro!o A'oi. Urb., Burdigala)— "Xon Apmrus potu, vitrea non luce NemaususPurior"— •till exists; and there are some traces of the ancientconstruction, though the whole is a modern restora­tion. But the great supply of water to Nemaususwas by the iqoeduct now called the Pont du Gard,•od it is sail that this acqueduct terminated by a called the maison carr£e. subterraneous passage in the side of the rock of thefountain. A building called the Temple of Diana,and a large edifice called Toitr Mntjne (TunisMagna), which appears to have been a sepulchralmonument, the gate of Augustus, and the gatecalled of France, are the chief remaining monumentsof Nemausus. The noblest Roman monument in France is theaqueduct called the Pont du Gard, which is betweenthree and four leagues from A'ftne*. Over this aque-