OCR Output 64 LIVY. coming on prevented their assaulting the works; butthey did not conceal their intention of doing so nextday as soon as the light should appear. The dictatorfound that there would be a necessity for lightingsooner than he had expected; and lest the situationshould be an obstruction to the bravery of the troops,he led away the legions in silence, leaving a great num足ber of fires, the better to deceive the enemy. Thecamps however lay so close together, that he could notescape their observation: their cavalry instantly pur足sued, and pressed closely on his troops, yet refrainedfrom attacking them until the day appeared. Theirinfantry did not even quit their camp before daylight.As soon as it was dawn the cavalry ventured to beginskirmishing; and by harassing the Roman rear, andpressing them in places of difficult passage, consider'ably delayed their march. Meanwhile their infantryovertook their cavalry ; and now the Samnites pursuedclose with their intire force. The dictator, then, find足ing that he could no longer go forward without greatinconvenience, ordered the spot where he stood to bemeasured out for a camp. But it was impossible,while the enemy's horse were spread about on everyside, that palisades could be brought, and the work bebegun: seeing it therefore impracticable, either tomarch forward or to settle himself there, he drew uphis troops for battle, removing the baggage out of theline. The enemy likewise formed their line oppositeto his; nowise inferior, either in spirit or in strength.Their courage was chiefly improved from not knowingthat the motive of the Romans' retreat was the ihcom-modiousness of the ground, so that they imaginedthemselves objects of terror, and supposed that theywere pursuing men who fled through fear. This keptthe balance of the fight equal for a considerable time ;though, of late, it had been unusual with the Samnitesto stand even the shout of a Roman army. Certain itis that the contest, on this day, continued so verydoubtful, from the third hour to the eighth, that nei足ther was the shout repeated, after being raised at the