OCR Output 388 /iimgoiTiES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. whom he delivered to Agrippa, that he might take him alongwith him. together with many presents, that so he might be­come Caesar's friend, insomuch, that things already looked asif he had all his father's favour, and that the young men wereentirely rejected from any hopes of the kingdom. CHAP. IV. How, during Antipater's abode at Home, Herod brought Alex­ander and Aristobulus before C&sar, and accused them. Alex­ander's defence of himself before Caesar, and reconciliation tohisfather. § 1. AND now what happened during Antipater's absence,augmented the honour to which he had been promoted, andhis apparent eminence above his brethren, for he had made agreat figure in Rome, because Herod had sent recommendationsof him to all his friends there, only he was grieved that he wasnot at home, nor had proper opportunities of perpetually calum­niating his brethren; and his chief fear was, lest his father shouldalter his mind and entertain a more favourable opinion of thesons of Mariamne; and as he had this in his mind he did notdesist from his purpose, but continually sent from Rome anysuch stories as he hoped might grieve and irritate his fatheragainst his brethren, under pretence indeed of a deep concern forhis preservation, but in truth, such as his malicious mind dictated,in order to purchase a greater hope of the succession, which yetwas already great in itself; and thus he did till he hadexcitedsucha degree of anger in Herod, that he was already become very illdisposed towards the young men; but still, while he delayed toexercise so violent a disgust against them, and that he might noteither be too remiss, or too rash, and so offend, he thought it bestto sail to Rome, and there accuse his sons before Caesar, and notindulge himself in any such crime as might be heinous enoughto be suspected of impiety; but as he was going up to Rome, ithappened that he made such haste as to meet with Caesar at the *city Aquilei: So when he came to the speech of Caesai., he ask­ed for a time for hearing this great cause, wherein he thought * Although Herod met Augustus at Aquilei, yet was this accusation of his sonsdeferred till they came to Rome, as sect. 3. assures, and as we are particularly in­formed in the history of the War, B. I. ch. xxiii. sect. 3. voL III. though what he heresays belonged distinctly to Alexander the elder brother. I mean his being broughtto Rome, is here justly extended to both the brothers, and that not only in ourcopies, but that in Zonoras also: nor is there reason to doubt but they were bothat this solemn hearing of Augustus, although the defence was made by Alexander(lone, who was the eldest brother, and one that could speak very well.