OCR Output CHAP. 61. ROMAN HISTORY. 399 might wink at this innovation, those who bad alreadyserved out their time, would never consent, that the-condition of their successors should be better thantheirs had been; or, that they who had already servedtheir country at their own charge, should be saddledwith a tax for the 'support of others.' Such speechesleft an impression with some, and the tribunes proclaim­ed, that they were ready to assist all those who weredisposed to stand out against the tax for the pay of thesoldiers. .' . The fathers, however, were determined to persevere• in supporting so laudable an undertaking, and were thefirst to pay in their contributions: and because they hadas yet no silver coin, some sent carriages loaded withbrass to the treasury, which gave their contingents amagnificent appearance. When the senators had paidin their respective quotas, with the utmost impartiality,agreeable to their valuations, the principal Plebeians,who were in friendship with the nobility, as had beenconcerted, began to pay in their assessments; and whenthe lower Plebeians observed how much they were com­mended by the senators, and respected as good citizensby the soldiers, all at once despising the assistance of thetribunes, he was the best man who paid first. The billwas now passed for declaring war against the Vejentes;and the new military tribunes- led an army against Veii,the greatest part of which consisted of volunteers. CHAP. LXI. Artena taken, the Fort having been betrayed by a slope. J. HE'military tribunes this year, were T. QumctiusCapitolinus, P. Quinctius Cincinnatus, C. Julius Julus, asecond time, A. Manlius, L. Furios Medullimis.'a secondtime, and Manius ^EmiliusMamercinus, who first invest-ed Veii. About the commencement of this siege, thestates of Etruria held a general council at the templeof Voltumna, to consider whether they should make thesiege of Veii a common cause, but it does not .appearthat they came to any resolution The siege, in theyear following, was carried on with still less vigour thanat first, part of the tribunes and the armies they com­manded, having been called off to a war with the Volsci.