OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 387 says, that " the land in which the Jews inhabit contains threemillions of arourae,1 and is generally of a most excellent andmost fruitful soil; nor is Judea itself of lesser dimensions."The same man describes our city Jerusalem also itself as of amost excellent structure, and very large, and inhabited fromthe most ancient times. He also discourses of the multitudeof men in it, and of the construction of our temple, after thefollowing manner. — " There are many strong places and vil­lages," says he, " in the country of Judea, but one strong citythere is, about fifty furlongs in circumference, which is in­habited by a hundred and twenty thousand men, or thereabout:'they call it Jerusalem. There is about the middle of the citya wall of stone, whose length is five hundred feet, and breadtha hundred cubits, with double cloisters; wherein there is asquare altar, not made of hewn stone, but composed of whitestones gathered together, having each side twenty cubits long,and its altitude ten cubits. Hard by it is a large edifice,wherein there is an altar and a candlestick, both of gold, 1 This manner of arouno or Egyptian acres, 3,000,000, each aroura con­taining a square of 100 Egyptian cubits, (being about three quarters of anEnglish acre, and just twice tho arca of the court of the Jewish tabernacle,)as contained in tho country of Judea, will be about one-third of the entirenumber of arourae in the whole land of Judea, supposing it 160 measuredmiles long, and 70 such miles broad; which estimation for the fruitful partsof it, as, perhaps, here in Hecateus, is not, therefore, very wide from thotruth. The 50 furlongs in compass for the city Jerusalem presently, are notvery wide from the truth also, as Josephus himself describes it, who, Of theWar, B. v. ch. iv. sect. 3, makes its wall 33 furlongs, besides the suburbsand gardens; nay, he says, B. v. ch. xii. sect. 2, that Titus's wall about itat some small distance after the gardens and suburbs were destroyed, wasnot less than 39 furlongs. Nor, perhaps, wero its constant inhabitants in thodays of Hecateus many more than these 120,000, because room was alwaysto be left for vastly greater numbers which came up at the three great fes­tivals ; to say nothing of the probable increase in their number between thedays of Hecateus and Josephus, which was at least 300 years. But see nmore authentic account of some of these measures in my description of theJewish temples. However, we are not to expect that such heathens as Cho-rilus or Heca'.eus, or the rest that arc cited by Josephus and Eusebius, couldavoid making many mistakes in the Jewish history, while yet they stronglyconfirm the same history in the general, and are most valuable attestationsto those more authentic accounts we have in the Scriptures and Josephusconcerning them.