OCR Output 5S ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. ven for ; and when they send* what they have dedicated to Godinto the temple, they do not offer sacrifices, because they havemore pure lustrations of their own ; on which account they areexcluded from the common court of the temple, but offer theirsacrifices themselves ; yet is their course of life better thanthat of other men ; and they entirely addict themselves to hus­bandry. It also deserves our admiration, how much they exceedall other men that addict themselves to virtue, and this in righ­teousness ; and indeed to such a degree, that as it hath neverappeared among any other men, neither Greeks nor Barbarians,no not for a little time, so hath it endured for a long while amongthem. This is demonstrated by that institution of theirs, whichwill not suffer any thing to hinder them from having all thingsin common; so that a rich man enjoys no more of his ownwealth than he who hath nothing at all. There are about fourthousand men that live in this way, and neither marry wives,nor are desirous to keep servants ; as thinking the latter temptsmen to be unjust, and the former gives the handle to domesticquarrels ; but as they live by themselves, they minister one toanother. They also appoint certain stewards to receive the in­comes of their revenues, and of the fruits of the ground ; suchas are good men and priests, who are to get their corn and theirfood ready for them. They none of them differ from others ofthe Essens in their way of living, but do the most resemblethose Dacae, who are called Polistis\, [dwellers in cities]. 6. But of the fourth sect of Jewish philosophy, Judas the Ga­lilean was the author. These men agree in all other things withthe Pharisaic notions; but they have an inviolable attachmentto liberty, and say, that God is to be their only Ruler and Lord.They also do not value dying any kinds of death, nor indeed dothey heed the deaths of their relations and friends, nor can anysuch fear make them call any man lord. And since this immove­able resolution of theirs is well known to a great many, I shallspeak no farther about that matter; nor am I afraid that anything I * It seems by what Josephus says here, and Philo himself elsewhere, Op.p. 679, that these Essens did not use to go to the Jewish festivals at Jernsalem,or to offer sacrifices there, which may be one great occasion why they are nevermentioned in the ordinary books of the New Testament; though, in the Apostoli.cal Constitutions, they are mentioned at those that observed the customs of theirforefathers, and that without any such ill character laid upon them, as is therelaid upon the oiher sects among that people. t Who these ntXiml in Josephus, or Kt<>«< in Strabo, among the PythagoricDacae were, it is not easy to determine. Scaliger offers no improbable conjecture,that some of these Dace lived alone, like monks, in tents or caves, but thatothers of them lived together in built cities, and thence were called by sucknames as implied the same.