OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 327 the state of civilized and peaceful servitude: the chap.rights of savage freedom were contracted to the nar- xx,row limits of Caledonia. The inhabitants of thatnorthern region were divided, as early as the reignof Constantine/ between the two great tribes of theScots and of the Picts *, who have since expe­rienced a very different fortune. The power, andalmost the memory, of the Picts, have been extin­guished by their successful rivals; and the Scots,after maintaining for ages the dignity of an inde-. pendent kingdom, have multiplied, by an equal andvoluntary union, the honours of the English name."The hand of nature had contributed to mark the an­cient distinction of the Scots and Picts. The formerwere the men of the hills, and the latter those of theplain. The eastern coast of Caledonia may be con­sidered as a level and fertile country, which, even in arude state of tillage, was capable of producing a con­siderable quantity of corn; and the epithet of cruit-nich, or wheat-eaters, expressed the contempt, orenvy, of the carnivorous highlander. The cultiva­tion of the earth might introduce a moi*e accurateseparation of property, and the habits of a sedentarylife; but the love of arms and rapine was still theruling passion of the Picts; and their warriors, whostripped themselves for a day of battle, were distin­guished, in the eyes of the Romans, by the strangefashion of painting their naked bodies with gaudycolours and fantastic figures. The western part ofCaledonia irregularly rises' into wild and barren hills,which scarcely repay the toil of the husbandman, * In the dark and doubtful paths of Caledonian antiquity, I have chosen formy guides two learned and ingenious Highlanders, whom their birth and educa­tion had peculiarly qualified for that office. See Critical Dissertations on the Ori­gin, Antiquities, &c of the Caledonians, by Dr. John Macpherson, London,1768, in 4to.; and Introduction to the History of Great Britain and Ireland, byJames Macpherson, Esq. London, 1773, in 4to. third edit. Dr. Macpherson wasa minister in the isle of Skye; and it is a circumstance honourable for the presentage, that a work replete with erudition and criticism should have been composedin tiie most remote of the Hebrides. y 4