OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIgUITIES OF THE JEWS. 411 all expectation, wiped off. And Archelaus, as soon as he hadmade the reconciliation, went then away to Cappadocia, havingproved at this juncture of time the most acceptable person toHerod in the world; on which account he gave him the richestpresents, as tokens of his respect to him, and being on other oc­casions magnanimous, he esteemed him one of his dearest friends.He also made an agreement with him that he would go to Rome,because he had written to Caesar about these affairs; so theywent together as far as Antioch, and there Herod made a recon­ciliation between Archelaus and Titus, the president of Syria,who had been greatly at variance, and so returned back toJudea. CHAP. IX. Concerning the revolt of the Trachonites: How Sylleus accusedHerod before Ctesar: and how Herod, when Ctesar was angryat him, resolved to send Nicolaus to Rome. § 1. W HEN Herod had been at Rome, and was come backagain, a war arose between him and the Arabians, on the oc­casion following: The inhabitants of Trachonitis, after Caesarhad taken the country away from Zednodorus, and added itto Herod, had not now power to rob, but were forced toplough the land, and to live quietly, which was a thing theydid not like; and when they did take that pains, the ground didnot produce much fruit for them. However, at the first theking would not permit them to rob, and so they abstained fromthat unjust way of living upon their neighbours, which procuredHerod a great reputation for his care: But when he was sailingto Rome, (it was at that time when he went to accuse his sonAlexander, and to commit Antipater to Caesar's protection,) theTrachonites spread a report as if he were dead, and revoltedfrom his dominion, and betook themselves again to their accus­tomed way of robbing their neighbours: at which time theking's commanders subdued them during his absence, but aboutforty of the principal robbers, being terrified by those that hadbeen taken, left the country, and retired into Arabia, Sylleusentertaining them, after he had missed of marrying Salome, andgave them a place of strength in which they dwelt. So they over­ran not only Judea, butall Coelesyria also, and carried off the prey,while Sylleus afforded them places of protection and quietnessduring their wicked practices. But when Herod came back fromRome, he perceived that his dominions had greatly suffered bythem, and since he could not reach the robbers themselves, be­cause of the secure retreat they had in that country, and whichVOL. n. 3 F 27