OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. were actors, the Romans were merely spectators. TheOlympic stadium was open to wealth, merit, and ambi­tion; and if the candidates could depend on their per­sonal skill and activity, they might pursue the footstepsof Diomede and Menelaus, and conduct their own horsesin the rapid career.3 Ten, twenty, forty chariots wereallowed to start at the same instant; a crown of leaveswas the reward of the victor: and his fame, with that ofhis family and country, was chanted in lyric strains moredurable than monuments of brass and marble. But a se­nator, or even acitizen, conscious of his dignity, wouldhave blushed to expose his person or his horses in the cir­cus of Rome. The games were exhibited at the expense ofthe republic, the magistrates, or the emperors: but thereins were abandoned to servile hands; and if the profitsof a favourite charioteer sometimes exceeded those ofan advocate, they must be considered as the effects ofpopular extravagance, and the high wages of a disgracefulprofession. The race, in its first institution, was a simplecontest of two chariots, whose drivers were distinguishedby white and red liveries; two additional colours, a lightgreen, and a cerulean blue, were afterward introduced;and as the races were repeated twenty-five times, onehundred chariots contributed in the same day to thepomp of the circus. The four factions soon acquired alegal establishment, and a mysterious origin, and theirfanciful colours were derived from the various appear­ances of nature in the four seasons of the year; the reddog-star of summer, the snows of winter, the deep shadesof autumn, and the cheerful verdure of the spring.' An­other interpretation preferred the elements to the seasons, • Read and feel the twenty-third book of the Iliad, a living picture of manners,passions, and the whole form and spirit of the chariot-race. West's Dissertation onthe Olympic Games (sect. 12—17.) affords much curious ami authentic information. I The four colours, albati,russuti, jirasini, veneli, represent the four seasons, accord­ing to Cassiodorius, (Var. 3. 51.) who lavishes much wit and eloquence on thistheatrical mystery. Of these colours, the three first may be fairly translated, white,red, and green. Venetus is explained by cacruleut a word various and vague: it isproperly the sky reflected in the sea; but custom and convenience may allow blue asau equivalent. (Robert. Slephau, sub voce. Spence's l'olywclis, p. 228.) «