OCR Output LACONIA. Ill LACONIA. lie daughter of his predecessor. Lacedaemon gaveto the people and the country his own name, and tothe city which he founded the name of his wife.Amyclas, the son of Lacedaemon, founded the citycalled after him Amyclae. (Paus. iii. I.) Subse­quently Lacedaemon was ruled by Achaean princes,and Sparta was the residence of Menelaus, thebrother of Agamemnon. Menelaus was succeededby Orestes, who married his daughter Hermione,and Orestes by his son Tisamenus, who was reign­ing when the Dorians invaded the country under theguidance of the Heracleidae. In the threefold divi­sion of Peloponnesus among the descendants of Her­cules, Lacedaemon fell to the share of Eurysthenesand Procles, the twin sons of Aristodemus. Accord­ing to the common legend, the Dorians conqueredthe Peloponnesus at once; but there is sufficientevidence that they only slowly became masters oftbe countries in which we afterwards find themfettled; and in Laconia it was sometime before theyobtained possession even of all the places in theplain of Sparta. According to a statement inEpborus, the Dorian conquerors divided Laconiainto six districts; Sparta they kept for themselves;Amyclae was given to the Achaean Philonomus,who betrayed the country to them; while Las,Pharis, Aegys, and a sixth town the name of whichu lost, were governed by viceroys, and were allowedto receive new citizens. (Kphor. ap. Strab. viii. p.364; on this corrupt passage, which has been hap­pily restored, ace Miiller, Dorhiut, vol. i. p. 110,tnnsL; Niebuhr, Ethnograph. voL i. p. 56, transl.;Kramer, ad Strab. 1. c.) It is probable that thisdivision of Laconia into six provinces was not ac­tually made till a much later period; but we havewinVient evidence to show that, for a long time afterthe Dorian conquest, the Dorians possessed only aS3ull portion of Laconia. Of this the most strikingproof is that the Achaean city of Amyclae, distantonly 2 J miles from Sparta, maintained its indepen­dence for nearly three centuries after the Dorianconquest, for it was only subdued shortly before theFirst Messenian War by the Spartan king Teleclus.The same king took Pharis and Geronthrae, bothAchaean cities; and his son and successor, Alca-n*nes, couquered the town of Helos, upon the coastnear tbe mouth of the Eurotas. (Paus. iii. 2. §§ 6,7.) Of the subjugation of the other Achaean townswe bive no accounts; but there can be little doubtthat they were mainly owing to the military organi­sation and martial spirit which the Spartans hadaqnired by the institutions of Lycurgus. By the middle of the eighth century the Doriansof Sparta had become undisputed masters of thewhole of Laconia. They now began to extend theirdominions at the expense of their neighbours. Ori­ginally Argos was the chief Dorian power in thePeloponnesus, and Sparta only the second. Inancient times the Argives possessed the whole easterno*»t of Laconia down to Cape Malea, and also theBland of Cythera (Herod, i. 82); and although wehare no record of the time at which this part oflaconia was conquered by the Spartans, we may•afely conclude that it was before the Messenianwin. The Dorians in Messenia possessed a muchmore ferule territory than the Spartans in Laconia,*rd the latter now began to cast longing eyes uponu* richer fields of their neighbours. A pretext forwar toon arose; and, by two long protracted andobpinate contests, usually called the Kirst andSecond Messenian ware (the first from B. c. 743 to 724, and the second from b. c. 685 to 668), theSpartans conquered the whole of Messenia, expelledor reduced to the condition of Helots the inhabit­ants, and annexed their country to Laconia. Thename of Messenia now disappears from history;and, for a period of three centuries, from the close ofthe Second Messenian War to the restoration of theindependence of Messenia by Epaminondas, thewhole of the southern part of Peloponnesus, fromthe western to the eastern sea, bore the appellationof Laconia. The upper parts of the valleys of the Eurotasand the Oenus, the districts of Sciritis, Beleminatis,Maleatis, and Caryatis, originally belonged to theArcadians, but they were all conquered by theSpartans and annexed to their territory before b. c.600. (Grote, Jlut. of Greece, vol. ii. p. 588.) Theythus extended their territories on the north to whatmay be regarded as the natural boundaries of Laco­nia, the mountains forming the watershed betweenthe Eurotas and the Alpheius; but when theycrossed these limits, and attempted to obtain pos­session of the plain of Tegea, they met with themost determined opposition, and were at last obligedto be content with the recognition of their supre­macy by the Tegeatans, and to leave the latter inthe independent enjoyment of their territory. The history of the early struggles between theSpartans and Argives is unknown. The district onthe coast between the territories of the two states,and of which the plain of Thyreatis was the mostimportant part, inhabited by the Cynurians, a Pe-lasgic people, was a frequent object of contentionbetween them, and was in possession, sometimes1 ofthe one, and sometimes of the other power. Atlength, in n. c. 547, the Spartans obtained perma­nent possession of it by the celebrated battle foughtby the 300 champions from either nation. [Cy-nuria.] The dominions of the Spartans nowextended on the otlier side of Mount Parnon, as faras the pass of Anigraea. The population of Sparta was divided into thethree classes of Spartans, Perioeci, and Helots. Ofthe condition of these classes a more particularaccount is given in the Dictionary of Antiqui­ties; and it is only necessary to remark here thatthe Spartans lived in Sparta itself, and were theruling Dorian class; that the Perioeci lived in thedifferent townships in Laconia, and, though freemen,had no share in the government, but received alltheir orders from the ruling class at Sjtarta; andthat the Helots were serfs bound to the soil, whocultivated it for the benefit of the Spartan proprie­tors, and perhaps of the Perioeci also. After theextension of the Spartan dominions by the conquestof Messenia and Cynuria, Laconia was said topossess 100 townships (Strab. viii. p. 362), amongwhich we find mentioned Anthaua in the CynurianThyreatis, and Anion in Messenia, near the frontiersof Elis. (Steph. B. 8. w. JAvQava, AuAwy.) According to the common story, Lycurgus dividedthe territory of Laconia into a number of equal lots,of which 9000 were assigned to the Spartans, and30,000 to the Perioeci. (Plut. Lye. 8.) Someancient critics, however, while believing that Lycur­gus made an equal division of the Lacouian lands,supposed that the above numbers referred to thedistribution of the Lacedaemonian territory after theincorporation of Messenia. And even with respectto the latter opinion, there were two different state­ments; some maintained that 6000 lots had been