OCR Output 0. I.] SIEGE OF GAM ALA. 73 into Great Jordan. Now Agrippa had united Sogana andSeleucia by leagues to himself at the very beginning of therevolt from the Romans ; yet did not Gamala accede to them,but relied upon the difficulty of the place, which was greaterthan that of Jotapata; for it was situated upon a rough ridgeof a high mountain, with a kind of neck in the middle; whereit begins to ascend it lengthens itself, and declines as muchdownward before as behind, insomuch that it is like a camelin figure, from whence it is so named, although the people ofthe country do not pronounce it accurately : both on the sideand the face there are abrupt parts divided from the rest, andending in vast deep valleys; yet are the parts behind, wherethey are joined to the mountain, somewhat easier of ascentthan the other; but then the people belonging to the placehave cut an oblique ditch there, and made that hard to beascended also. On its acclivity, which is straight, houses arebuilt, and those very thick and close to one another. Thecity also hangs so strangely, that it looks as if it would falldown upon itself, so sharp is it at the top. It is exposed tothe south, and its southern mount, which reaches to an im­mense height, was in the nature of a citadel to the city; andabove that was a precipice, not walled about, but extendingto an immense depth. There was also a spring of waterwithin the wall, at the utmost limits of the city. 2. As this city was naturally hard to be taken, so had Jo-sephus, by building a wall about it, made it still stronger, asalso by ditches and mines underground. The people thatwere in it were made more bold by the nature of the placethan the people of Jotapata had been, but it had much fewerfighting-men in it; and they had such a confidence in thesituation of the place, that they thought the enemy could notbe too many for them ; for the city had been filled with thosethat had fled to it for safety on account of its strength; onwhich account they had been able to resist those whomAgrippa sent to besiege it for seven months together. 3. But Vespasian removed from Emmaus, where he hadlast pitched his camp before the city Tiberias (now Emmaus,if it be interpreted, may be rendered A warm bath, for therein IV. —7