OCR Output 502 ROMAN EMPIRE. the purity of taste, and the freedom of thought. Con­fident in the riches of their native tongue, the Arabiansdisdained the study of any foreign idiom. The Greekinterpreters were chosen among their Christian subjects;they formed their translations, sometimes on the originaltext, more frequently perhaps on a Syriac version; andin the crowd of astronomers and physicians, there is noexample of a poet, an orator, or even an historian, beingtaught to speak the language of the Saracens." Themythology of Homer would have provoked the abhor­rence of those stern fanatics; they possessed in lazy ig­norance the colonies of the Macedonians, and the pro­vinces of Carthage and Rome: the heroes of Plutarchand Livy were buried in oblivion; and the history of theworld before Mahomet was reduced to a short legend ofthe patriarchs, the prophets, and the Persian kings. Oureducation in the Greek and Latin schools may havefixed in our minds a standard of exclusive taste; and Iam not forward to condemn the litarature and judg­ments of nations, of whose language I am ignorant. YetI know that the classics have much to teach, and I believethat the orientals have much to learn: the temperate dig­nity of style, the graceful proportions of art, the formsof visible and intellectual beauty, the just delineation ofcharacter and passion, the rhetoric of narrative and ar­gument, the regular fabric of epic and dramatic poetry.*The influence of truth and reason is of a less ambiguouscomplexion. The philosophers of Athens and Romeenjoyed the blessings and asserted the rights, of civiland religious freedom. Their moral and political writ­ings might have gradually unlocked the fetters of eastern • Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 26.148.) mentions a Syriat version of Homer'stwo poems, by ThcophUus, a Christian Maronite of mount Libauus, who professedastronomy at Roha or Edessa, towards the end of the eighth century. His workwould be a literary curiosity. I have read somewhere, out I do not believe, thatPlutarch's Lives were translated into Turkish for the use of Mahomet the Second. b I have persused with much pleasure, sir William Jones's Latin Commeatvyon Asiatic Poetry (London, 1774,in octavo), which was composed in the youth ofthat wonderful linguist. At present, in the maturity of his taste and judgment, hewould perhaps abate of the fervent, and even partial, praise which be has bestowedon the orientals.