OCR Output 208 ROMAN EMPIRE. their great deliverer. At the aspect of the holy crosses,and ensigns of the saints, he dismounted from his horse,led the procession of his nobles to the Vatican, and, ashe ascended the stairs, devoutly kissed each step of thethreshold of the apostles. In the portico, Hadrian ex­pected him at the head of his clergy: they embraced, asfriends and equals; but in their march to the altar, theking or patrician assumed the right hand of the pope.Nor was the Frank content with these vain and emptydemonstrations of respect. In the twenty-six years thatelapsed, between the conquest of Lombardy and hisimperial coronation, Rome, which had been deliveredby the sword, was subject, as his own, to the sceptre ofCharlemagne. The people swore allegiance to his per­son and family: in his name money was coined, andjustice was administered; and the election of the popeswas examined and confirmed by his authority. Exceptan original and self-inherent claim of sovereignty, therewas not any prerogative remaining, which the title ofemperor could add to the patrician of Rome.pDonations The gratitude of the Carlovingians was ade-1uate to tnese obligations, and their names areto consecrated as the saviours and benefactors of e popes. ^e Roman church. Her ancient patrimony offarms and houses was transformed by their bounty intothe temporal dominion of cities and provinces; and thedonation of the exarchate was the first fruits of the con­quest of Pepin.q Astolphus with a sigh relinquishedhis prey; the keys and the hostages of the principalcities were delivered to the French ambassador; and,in his master's name, he presented them before the P Paul us Diaconus, who wrote before the empire of Charlemagne, describes Romeas his subject city — vestras civitates (ad Pompeium Festum), suis addidit sceptris(de Metensis Ecclesiae Episcopis.) Some Carlovingian medals struck at Rome, haveengaged Le Blanc to write an elaborate, though partial, dissertation on their autho­rity at Rome, both as patricians and emperors. (Amsterdam, 1692, in quarto.) 1 Mosheim (Institution Hist. Eccles. p. 263.) weighs this donation with fair anddeliberate prudence. The original act has never been produced; but the LiberPontificalia represents, (p. 171.) and the Codei Carolinus supposes, this amplegift. Both are contemporary records; and the latter is more authentic, since it ha*been preserved, not in the Papal, but the Imperial, library.