OCR Output 168 [A.U.C.774. THE ANNALS " passions of the profligate seducer. The presence of" the husband is scarce sufficient to guard the sanc-" tity of the marriage bed: what must be the conse-" quence, if they are separated, and as it were," divorced for a number of years ? In that interval," the nuptial union may be obliterated from the mind." Let us, if we can, prevent disorder in the provinces;" but let us not forget the manners of the capital." In this debate Drusus delivered his sentiments. Hetouched upon the subject of his own marriage, andadded, that the princes of the imperial house wereliable to the frequent,necessity of visiting distant pro­vinces. How often did it happen that Augustus madea progress in the West, and in the East, accompaniedby Livia his wife ? As to himself, he had commandedin Illyricum, and was ready, if the state required, toserve in any part of the empire; but he should servewith regret, if he was to be torn from an affectionatewife, the faithful mother of all his children. In con­sequence of these reasonings, CiEcina's motion fell tothe ground. XXXV. The senate at their next meeting receivedletters from Tiberius, in which, after complaining ob­liquely that the burden of all public business wasthrown on himself, he named Manius Lepidus andJunius Blsesus for the proconsulship of Africa; leav­ing the choice of one of them to the determination ofthe fathers. Both were heard: Lepidus, with a de­gree of earnestness, desired to be excused; allegingthe infirmities of his constitution, and the care due tohis children, who, except a daughter then fit for themarried state, were all of tender years. Lepidus hadstill a better reason, but he chose to suppress it: itwas, nevertheless, well understood that Blsesus wasuncle to Sejanus, and of course had the prevailinginfluence. Blsesus in his turn declined the office, butwith affected coyness. Flattery knew on which sideits interest lay; and, by consequence, the slaves ofpower knew how to conquer such feeble reluctance.Blsesus was of course appointed. XXXVI. A public grievance, which had long beenfelt with secret discontent, was soon after brought