OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 455 of "Oscan plays" or "plays of Atella" was commonlyused for these exhibitions.* But these pleasantries hadnothing to do with the stage f and with literature; theywere performed by amateurs where and when they pleased,and the text was not written or at any rate was not pub- * With these names there has been associated from ancient times a series oferrors. The utter mistake of Greek reporters, that these farces were played atRome in the Oscan language, is now with justice universally rejected; but itis, on a closer consideration, little short of impossible to bring these pieces,which are laid in the midst of Latin town and country life, into relation withthe national Oscan character at all. The appellation of " Atellan play " is to beexplained in another way. The Latin farce with its fixed characters andstanding jests needed a permanent scenery: the fool-world everywhere seeksfor itself a local habitation. Of course under the Roman stage-police none ofthe Roman communities, or of the Latin communities allied with Rome, couldbe taken for this purpose. But Atella, which was destroyed de jure alongwith Capua in 543 (ii. 170, 190) but continued practically to subsist as a 211.village inhabited by Roman farmers, was adapted in every respect for the pur­pose. This conjecture is changed into certainty by our observing that severalof these farces are laid in other communities within the domain of the Latintongue which existed no longer at all, or no longer at any rate in the eye of thelaw—such as the Campani of Pomponius and perhaps also his Adelphi andhis Qumquatria in Capua, and the Milites Pometinenses of Novius in SuessaPometia—while no existing community was subjected to a similar abuse. Thereal home of these pieces was therefore Latium, their poetical stage was theLatinized Oscan land; with the Oscan nation they have no connection. Thestatement that a piece of Naevius (-f after 550) was for want of proper actors 200.performed by "Atellan players" and was therefore called personata (Festus,8. t;.), proves nothing against this view: the appellation " Atellan players" ishere employed proleptically, and we might even conjecture from this passagethat they were formerly termed " masked players" (jpersonati). An explanation quite similar may be given of the "lays of Fescennium,"which likewise belong to the burlesque poetry of the Romans and were localizedin the South Etruscan village of Fescennium; it is not necessary on thataccount to class them with Etruscan poetry any more than the Atellanae withOscan. That Fescennium was in historical times not a town but a village, can­not certainly be directly proved, but is in the highest degree probable from theway in which authors mention the place and from the silence of inscriptions. f The close and original connection, which Livy in particular represents assubsisting between the Atellan tarce and the satura with the drama thencedeveloped, is not at all tenable. The difference between the histrio and theAtellan player was just about as great as is at present the difference between aprofessional actor and a man who goes to a masked ball; between the dramaticpiece, which down to Terence's time had no masks, and the Atellan, which wasessentially based on the character-mask, there subsisted an original distinctionin no way to be effaced. The drama arose out of the flute-piece, which at firstwithout any recitation was confined merely to song and dance, then acquired atext (satura), and lastly obtained through Andronicus a libretto borrowed fromthe Greek stage, in which the old flute-lays occupied nearly the place of theGreek chorus. This course of development nowhere in its earlier stages cameinto contact with the farce, which was performed by amateurs.