OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 9 naia preparation for war; and while justice regulated their conduct, they ^n0Jv^ar.announced to the nations on their confines, that they were as little cas Aatoni-,disposed to endure as to offer an injury. The military strength,which it had been sufficient for Hadrian and the elder Antoninusto display, was exerted against the Parthians and the Germans, bythe emperor Marcus. The hostilities of the barbarians provokedthe resentment of that philosophic monarch, and in the prosecutionof a just defence, Marcus and his generals obtained many signalvictories, both on the Euphrates, and on the DanubeThe mi­litary establishment of the Roman empire, which thus assured eitherits tranquillity or success, will now become the proper and importantobject of our attention. In the purer ages of the commonwealth, the use of arms Military esta- r 0 blithment of was reserved for those ranks of citizen's who had a country to love, the Roman i ., • > emperors. a property to defend, and some share in enacting those laws, whichit Was their interest, as well as duty, to maintain. But in pro­portion as the publ;c freedom was lost in extent of conquest, WarWas gradually improved into an art, And degraded into a trade !°.The legions themselves, even at the time when they were recruitedin the most distant provinces, consisted of Roman citizens. Thatdistinction was generally considered, either as a legal qualification,-or as a proper recompence for the soldier; but a more serious regardwas paid to the essential merit of age, strength, and militarystature". In all leviesi a just preference was given to the climatesof the North over those of the South ^ the race of men born to theexercise of arms, was sought for in the country rather than in cities;and it was very reasonably presumed, that the hardy occupations ofsmiths, carpenters, and huntsmen, would supply more vigour and re­solution, than the sedentary trades vVhich are employed in the serviceof luxury J\ After every qualification of property had been laid aside,the armies of the Roman emperors Were still commanded, for themost part, by officers of a liberal birth and education j but the com-Vol. I. C mon