OCR Output 38 ILLVBICUM. ILLYRICUM. custom of one of their tribes, the Dalmatians, tohave a new division of their lands every eighth year(Strah. /. c\), resembled the well-known practice ofthe Germans, only advanced somewhat further to­wards civilised life. The author of the Periplusascribed to Seylax (A c.) speaks of the greatinfluence enjoyed by their women, whose lives, inconsequence, he describes as highly licentious. TheIllvrian, like the modern Albanian Skip*tar, wasalways ready to fight for hire ; and rushed to battle,obeying only the instigation of his own love of fight­ing, or vengeance, or love of blood, or craving forbo<>tr. Hut aS soon as the feeling was satisfied,or over­come by tear, his rapid and impetuous rush was suc­ceeded by an equally rapid retreat or flight. (Comp.Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. vi. p. 609.) They didnot fight in the phalanx, nor were they merely)pt\ot; they rather formed an intermediate classbetween them and the phalanx. Their arms wereshort spears and light javelins and shields (''pel-tastae"); the chief weapon, however, was thef-idxatpa, or Albanian knife. Dr. Arnold has re­marked {Hist, of Rome, vol. i. p. 495), —14 Theeastern coast of the Adriatic is one of those ill-fatedportions of the earth which, though placed in imme­diate contact with civilisation, have remained per­petually barbarian."' But Scymnus of Chios (comp,Arnold, vol. iii. p. 477), writing of the lllyriansabout a century before the Christian era, calls them"a religious people, just and kind to stranger.-,loving to be liberal, and desiring to live orderly andsoberly." After the Roman conquest, ami during ilsdominion, they were as civilised as most otherpeoples reclaimed from barbarism. The emperorDiocletian and St. Jerome were both lllyrians. Andthe palace at Spafato is the earliest existing spe­cimen of the legitimate combination of the roundarch and the column; and the modern history of theeastern shores of the Adriatic begins with the rela­tions established by Heraclius with the Serbs orW, Slaves, who moved down from the Carpathiansinto the provinces between the Adriatic ami theDanube. The states which they constituted wereof considerable weight in the history of Europe, andtin* kingdoms, or bannats, of Croatia, Servia, Ilosnia,Jta.M-ia, and Dalmatia, occupied for some centuries apolitical position very like that now- held by thesecondary monarchical states of the present day.The people of Narenta, who had a republican formof government, once disputed the sway of theAdriatic with the Venetians; Ragusa, which senther Argosies (Ragosies) to even' coast, never oncesuccumbed to the winged Lion of St. Mark; and forsome time it seemed probable that the Serviancolonies established by Heraclius were likely to takea prominent part in advancing the progress of Eu­ropean civilisation. (Comp. Finlay, Greece under theHainan*, p. 40'J.) 5. History.—The lllyrians do not appear In historybefore the Peloponnesian War, when Brasidas andPerdiccas retreated before thein, and the lllyrians,for the first time, probably, had to encounter Greciantroops. (Thuc. iv. 124—128.) Nothing is heard ofthese barbarians afterwards, till the time of Philipof Macedon, by whose vigour and energy their in­cursions were first repressed, and their country par­tially conquered. Their collision with the Mace­donians appears to have risen under the followingcircumstances. During the 4th century before Christa largo immigration of Gallic tribes from the west­ward was taking place, invading the territory of the more northerly lllyrians, and driving them furtherto the south. Under Bardylis the lllyrians. whohad formed themselves into a kingdom, the origin ofwhich cannot be traced, had extended themselvesover the towns, villages, and plains of W. Macedonia(Diod. xvi. 4; Theo|x>nip. Fr. 35, ed. Didot.; Cic.de Of. ii. 11; Phot. B'tbl p. 530, ed. Bekker; Liban.Orat. xxviii. p. 632). As soon as the young Philipof Macedon came to the throne, he attacked thesehereditary enemies B. c. 3G0, and pushed his suc­cesses so vigorously, as to reduce to subjection allthe tribes to the E. of Lychnidus. (Comp. Grote,Hist, of Greece, vol. xi. pp. 302—304.) A statewas formed the capital of which was probably nearRagusa, but the real Illvrian pirates with whom theRomans came in collision, must have occupied theN.of Dalmatia. Rhodes was still a maritime power;but by b.c. 233 the lllyrians had become formidablein the Adriatic, ravaging the coasts, and disturbingthe navigation of the allies of the Romans. Envoyswere sent to Teuta, the queen of the lllyrians,demanding reparation: she replied, that piracy wasthe habit of her Jteople, and finally had the envoysmurdered. (Polyb. ii. 8; Appian, lllyr. 7; Zonar.viii. 10; comp. Plm. xxxiv. 11.) A Roman armyfor the first time crossed the Ionian gulf, and con­cluded a peace with the lllyrians upon honourableterms, while the Greek states of Corcyra, Apollonia,and Ep'idamnus, received their liberty as a gift fromRome. On the death of Teuta, the traitor Demetrius ofPharos made himself guardian of Pineus, son ofAgron, and usurped the chief authority in Illyri-cum : thinking that the Romans were too much en­gaged in the Gallic wars, he ventured on severalpiratical acts. This led to the Second Illvrian War,b.c. 219, which resulted in the submission of thewhole of Illyricum. Demetrius fled to Macedonia,and Pineus was restored to his kingdom. (Polyb.iii.16, 18 ; Liv. xxii. 33; App. Illyr. 7, 8; Elor. ii.5;Dion Cass, xxxiv. 40. 151; Zonar. viii. 20.) Pineuswas succeeded by his uncle Scerdilaidas, andScerdilaidas by his son Pleuratus, who, tor hisfidelity to the Roman cause during the MacedonianWar, was rewarded at the peace of 196 by the addi­tion to Ids territories of Lychnidus and the 1'arthini,which had before belonged to Macedonia (lVlyb.xviii. .'!!>, xxi. 9, xxii. 4; Liv. xxxi. 28. xxxii.34.) In the reign of Gcntius, the last king ofIllyricum, the Dahnatae revolted, u C. 180 ; andthe praetor L. Anicius, entering Illyricum, finishedthe war within thirty days, by taking the capitalScodra (Seittnri), into which Gentius had thrownhimself, u.c. 168. (Polyb. xxx. 13: Liv. xliv. 30—32, xlv. 43; Appian,' Ilhjr. 9; Eutrop. iv. 6.)Illyricum, which was divided into three parts, be­came annexed to Rome. (Liv. xlv.26.) The his­tory of the Roman wars with Dalmatia, I.wyma,and Li BURMA, is given under those heads. In it. c. 27 Illyricum was under the rule of aproconsul appointed by the senate (Dion Cass. liii.12); but the frequent attempts of the people to re­cover their liberty showed the necessity of main­taining a strung force in the country ; and in B.C.11 (Dion Cass. liv. 34) it was made an imperialprovince, with P. Cornelius Dolabella for " legato*(*' leg. pro. pr.," Orelli, Inscr. no. 2305, comp. no.3128; Tac. Hist. ii. 86; Marquardt, in Becker'sItvm. Alt. vol. iii. pt. i. pp. 110 —115). A largeregion, extending far inland towards the valley ofthe Save and the Dracc, contained bodies of soldiery,