OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 25 cities that were round about it; some of which were quitedestitute of inhabitants, and out of some of them he carriedthe inhabitants as slaves into captivity. 2. As to Josephus, his retiring into that city which hechose as the most fit for his security, put it into great fear;for the people of Tiberias did not imagine that he would havorun away, unless he had entirely despaired of the success ofthe war. And, indeed, as to that point, they were not mis­taken about his opinion; for he saw whither the affairs of theJews would tend at last, and was sensible that they had butone way of escaping, and that was by repentance. However,although he expected that the Romans would forgive him,yet did he choose to die many times over rather than to be­tray his country, and to dishonor that supreme command ofthe army which had been intrusted with him, or to live hap­pily under those against whom he was sent to fight. Hedetermined, therefore, to give an exact account of affairs tothe principal men at Jerusalem by a letter, that he mightnot by too much aggrandizing the power of the enemy makethem too timorous, nor by relating that their power beneaththe truth might encourage them to stand out, when theywere, perhaps, disposed to repentance. He also sent themword, that if they thought of coming to terms, they mustsuddenly write him an answer; or if they resolved upon war,they must send him an army sufficient to fight the Romans.Accordingly, he wrote these things, and sent messengers im­mediately to carry his letters to Jerusalem. 3. Now Vespasian was very desirous of demolishing Jota-pata, for he had gotten intelligence that the greatest part ofthe enemy had retired thither, and that it was, on other ac­counts, a place of great security to them. Accordingly, hesent both footmen and horsemen to level the road, which wasmountainous and rocky, not without difficulty to be travelledover by footmen, but absolutely impracticable for horsemen.Now these workmen accomplished what they were about infour days' time, and opened a broad way for the army. Onthe fifth day, which was the twenty-first of the month Arte-misius [Jyar,] Josephus prevented him, and came from Tibe- IV. —3