OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 79 pointment, there was substituted in their room MarcusyEmilius Papus, dictator, and Lucius Valerius Flac-cus, master of the horse. But neither did these holdthe elections: and the people being dissatisfied withall the magistrates of that year, an interregnum en­sued. The office of interrex was held by Quintus Fa-bius Maximus; afterwards by Marcus Valerius Cor-vus, who elected consuls Quintus Publilius Philo, andLucius Papirius Cursor a second time [A. U. C. 434.B.C. 318]; a choice universally approved, for therewere no commanders at that time of higher reputation. 8. They entered into office immediately on beingelected, for so it had been determined by the fathers.When the customary decrees of the senate were passedthey proposed the consideration of the Caudine peace;and Publilius, whose duty it was to open the business,said, ' Spurius Postumius, speak.' He arose with justthe same countenance with which he had passed underthe yoke, and delivered himself to this effect: ' Con­suls, doubtless I am to be called up first with markedignominy, not with honor; and am ordered to speak,not as being a senator, but as a person who has to an­swer for an unsuccessful war and disgraceful peace.However, the question propounded by you is not con­cerning our guilt or our punishment: waving there­fore a defence, which would not be very difficult beforemen who are not unacquainted with the casualties towhich mankind are subject, I shall briefly state myopinion on the matter in question; which opinion willtestify whether I was actuated by tenderness to myselfor to your legions, when I engaged as surety to theconvention, be it of what kind it may, whether disho­norable or necessary : by which, however, the Romanpeople are not bound, inasmuch as it was concludedwithout their order; nor is any thing liable to be for­feited to the Samnites, in consequence of it, except ourpersons. Let us then be delivered up to them by theheralds, naked, and in chains. Let us free the peopleof the religious obligation, if we have bound them un­der any such; so that there may be no restriction,