OCR Output CHAP. 11. ROMAN HISTORY. 121 out the least hurt; ah exertion, that to posterity will ap­pear rather matter of wonder, than of fact. For such uncommon bravery, the public shewed everymark of respect. A statue was erected for him in theComitium, and he got as much land as he could encirclewith a plough in one day. Nor were private familiesless eager in expressing their gratitude than the public;foi though the scarcity of provisions was great, yet everyone, in proportion to what he had in his family, savedsome part of his own allowance, as a gratuity to him. CHAP. XI. Porsenna turns the siege into a blockade. A ORSENNA being repulsed in his first attempt, re­solved to turn the siege into a blockade; wherefore,havmg garrisoned the Janiculum, he encamped withthe main army upon a plain, along the banks of theTiber. Then having collected boats from all quarters,to enable him to guard the river so effectually, that noprovisions could be conveyed to Rome, and at the sametime, to serve him as transports, when he should chuse,upon occasion, to send foraging parties to one place afteranother, on the other side of the river: in at short time,he so harassed Uie country about the city, that the peo­ple were not only obliged to remove every thing else,but also to drive all their cattle into the city, nor durstany body venture them without the gates. The Etrurians were permitted to take these liberties,not more through fear, than good policy; for the cpn-^sul Valerius, watching his opportunity of falling on themunexpectedly when a numerous party, and stragglingwithout order through the fields, he suffered smalt par­ties to pass with impunity, reserving the weight of hisindignation for occasions more important. Therefore to ensnare these ravagers, he ordered mul­titudes of his own people, to drive out the cattle nextday, at the Equiline gate, which lay farthest from theenemy, presuming they would get intelligence; becauseit was hardly possible, that with the closeness of the