OCR Output 446 tirUS-LIVIUS' BooKV. rinus were chosen consuls. In the beginning of thisyear, whilst the tribunes renewed their intrigues with allimaginable zeal, to get their bill passed, as they had nutone opponent in all the college, the consuls for that veryreason, were equally active to prevent it; and whilst thewhole city seemed to be intent upon that point alone,the /Equi made themselves masters of the Veteleian co­lony which had been planted in their courrtrv- Thegreatest part of the planters escaped unhurt, bv the backgates of the city, through which, favoured by the dark­ness of the night, when the city was taken by treachery,they had a free passage, and fled to Rome. L. Lucretius got that province by lot. He marchedwith an army, chastised the enemy, and returned victo­rious to Rome, where a more obstinate engagementawaited him. A day was appointed for the trial of An-lus Virginius, and Q. Pomponius, both tribunes of thepeople for the two preceding years j in whose defence,by conseDt of the father?, the honour of the senate wasengaged. They could be charged with no crime, eitherwith respect to their morals, or the discharge of theiroffice, but that they had, to gratify the Patricians, op­posed the bill brought in by their colleagues. The peo­ple's resentment prevailed over the interest of the fathers,aod innocent men, in this shocking instance, were con­demned in a fine of 10,000 asses of brass,*. . A sentencewhich gave great offence to the fathers. • '• Camillus openly accused the people of the most scan­dalous partiality. 'Their rage, (said he,) is now turnedagainst their own party; not perceiving, that by theiriniquitous sentence, thay had given a mortal btow totheir tribunitian power, by depriving their iribunes.ofthe privilege of intercessjpti: for if they. imagined,that the senate would endure an unbridled licentiots-ness iti any of 'these- magistrates, they were' dresdfiil^ymistaken. 'For if the violence of •some of the tribunescould not be checked by the opposition-bf':s6me of thecollege, the}' might be assured the Senate would finHanother method of restraining it;? "-'" He "tikewise-re?proved the consuls, for tamely srandmg'By, and sufferingthe two tribunes to be oppressed, who bad acted entirely '"