OCR Output AH. 38.] 533 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Pappus, who was encamped at a village call­ed lsanas. And there ran in to him many outof Jericho and Judea, near to which placeshe was: and the enemy fell upon his men, sostout were they at this time, and joined battlewith them. But he defeated them in the fight;and in order to be revenged on them for theslaughter of his brother, he pursued themsharply, and killed them as they ran away.And *as the houses were full of armed men,and many of them ran as far as the tops of thehouses, he got them under his power, andpulled down the roofs of the houses; and sawthe lower rooms full of soldiers that werecaught, and lay all on a heap. So they threwstones down upon them, as they lay piled oneupon another; and thereby killed them. Norwas there a more frightful spectacle in all thewar than this: where beyond the walls animmense multitude of dead men lay heapedone upon another. This action it was whichchiefly damped the spirits of the enemy; whoexpected now what would come. For thereappeared a mighty number of people, thatcame from places far distant, that were nowabout the village, but then ran away. Andhad it not been for the depth of winter, whichthen restrained them, the king's army had pre­sently gone to Jerusalem: as being very cou­rageous at this good success: and the wholework had been done immediately. For Anti-gonus was already considering how he mightflee away, and leave the city. At this time the king gave order that thesoldiers should go to supper, (for it was late atnight:) while he went into a chamber to usethe bath; for he was very weary. And hereit was that he was in the greatest danger:which yet, by God's providence, he escaped.For he was naked, and had but one servantthat followed him, to be with him while hewas bathing in an inner room; certain of theenemy, who were in their armour, and hadfled thither out of fear, were then in the place.And as he was bathing, the first of them cameout with his sword drawn, and went out atthe doors; and after him a second, and athird armed in like manner; and were un- der such a consternation, that they did nohurt to the king; and thought themselves tohave come off very well in suffering no harmthemselves, in their getting out of the house.However, on the next day, he cut off thehead of Pappus; (for he was already slain,)and sent it to Pheroras; as a punishmentof what their brother had suffered by hismeans: for he was the man that slew himwith his own hand. Whenf the rigour of winter was over, He­rod removed his army, and came near to Je­rusalem, and pitched his camp hard by thecity. Now this was the third year since hehad been made king at Rome. And as heremoi ed his camp, and came near that partof the wall where he could be most easilyassaulted, he pitched that camp before thetemple: intending to make his attacks in thesame manner as did Pompey. So he encom­passed the place with three bulwarks, anderected towers, and employed a great manyhands about the work; and cut down thetrees that were round about the city: andwhen he had appointed proper persons tooversee the works, even while the army laybefore the city, he himself went to Samaria,to complete his marriage; and to take towife the daughter of Alexander, the son ofAristobulus. For he had betrothed her al­ready; as I have Jbefore related. CHAP. XVI. HEROD, AFTER HIS MARRIAGE WITH MARIANNE, TAKESJERUSALEM BV FORCE, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF SO-SIUS; AND PUTS AN END TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THEASMONEANS. AFTER the wedding was over, Sosiuscame through Phoenicia; having senthis army over the midland parts. He also,who was their commander, came himself,with a great number of horsemen and foot­men. The king also came from Samaria,and brought with him a numerous army; be­sides that which was there before: for theywere about thirty thousand. And they allmet together at the walls of Jerusalem, and * It may be worthy our observation here that thesesoldiers of Herod's coold not have gotten upon the tops ofthese houses which were full of enemies, in order to pulltip the upper floors, and destroy them beneath, but byladders from the outside: which illustrates some texts in the New Testament, by which it appears that men usedto ascend thither by ladders on the outside. See Matt,xxiv. 17. Mark xiii. 15. Luke v. 19. xvii. 31. t An. 37. J See chap. 12. 402