OCR Output N1LUS. NILUS. hippopotamus is represented on tlie monuments oftii-' Thebaid, but not on those of Middle or LowerAegypt. The crocodile was caught with a hookbaited with the chine of .1 pit; (Herod, ii. 68), orwith nets. (Diodor. i. 35.) It was an object ofworship in some nomes [Arsinoe; U.viios], of ab­horrence in others [Tentyka.] The boats of the Nile, as represented on the monu­ments, exhibit a prat variety of size and form.There wits the canoe, made of a single trunk; theshall"p of papyrus, rendered water-tight by bitumen;and there were even vessels constructed of lightearthenware. (Juven. &it. xv. 129.) The mostusual species of craft, however, is a boat whose bowand stern are high out of the water, square rigged,with sails either of canvass or papyrus, a singleliia-j that could be lowered in high winds, and ashallow keel, in order to allow uf easy extrication ofthe vessel should it run aground. But the moststriking and capacious boat employed on the Nilewai tlie large Baris, used for the transportationof goods. (Herod, ii. 96.) It was built of thehard wood of the Sunt (Acon(fie); the sails weremade of papyrus, and the seams caulked with anoakum co:n[rt>sed from the fibres of that plant.These barges were propelled by as many as fortyrowers ranged on the same level, and their tonnageamounted to three, four, and even five hundredtons. These Bans wen- towed up the stream, if thewind were ti"t strong enough to impel them againstit, or floated down it, with combined action of sailand oars, and steered by one or more large paddlesat the stern. Parties of pleasure, visits of ceremony,and marriage processions, alike added to the fioatiugpopulation of the river; but perhaps the most im­pressive spectacles which it presented were thej-omp ami circumstance of funerals. On the tombsof Speos Artemidos (Bentfiassan) is depicturedthe barge of Amenemhe conveying the femalesof his house. It has an awning like a gondola,and is one of the half-decked boats (aKd<paij&aAa^Tr>oi) of which Strabo speaks (xvii. p. 800).In such a vessel Caesar intended, but lor the indig­nant murmurs of his legions, to have ascended theNile with Cleopatra from Alexandria to the firstC itaract. (Sueton. Jul. ">$.) The tomb of RamesesIV. at Thelws exhibits a royal barge. The hall,the cabin (-ddAauws). tlie rudder, and the masts arepainted of a gold colour; the sails are diapered andfringed with various brilliant hues; the phoenix andthe vulture are embroidered upon them. The eyeof 0>iris is painted on the rudder, and its handlesrepresent the royal emblems—the uracils ami thep.ickvnt, or head of a divinity. The splendour ofthe Bans on the monuments recalls that ot the vesselwhich cairied Cleopatra up the Cydnus to meetM. Antonius at Tarsus. (Plut. Anton, c. 26.)It was a favourite amusement of the Aegyptians,in later times especially, to row rapidly in boats,and hurl and thrust at one another as they passedblunl javelins or jerufo. Such a scene is repre­sented on the tomb of Imai at Gizeh, one of theoldest monuments of Aegypt. They delighted alsoin sailing up and down the river-arms and lakesof the Delta, and feasting under the shadow of thetall reeds, and Aegyptian bean, which there attainsa height of many feet (Strab. xvii. p. 823, andgenerally Rosellini, Monumeiiti Cirili.) The Nile was also frequently the stage on whichthe great religious festivals or panegyrics werecelebrated. On such solemnities the population of 1 entire nomes poured themselves forth. Or, '>I day of the feast of Artemis at Bubasfc\ t»inhabitants of the Delta thronged the nrdb mimain streams, while thousands descend*! bm1 the middle country and the Thebaid to he fft-sent at the ceremonies. The decks of th» Brawere crowded with devotees of either sex, and til: loud music of the pij# and cymbal was ttw&I panied by songs and hymns, and clapping of bini*As they neared any town the passengers ran the br;*i! along shore and recruited their numbers with frtslvotaries. As many as 700,000 persona, rtc!a.-ot<ichildren, were sometimes assembled at Biibvus,a1 at the equally popular festival of Isis at BraniNumerous sacrifices were offered in the temp-**the goddesses, and, whether in libations or in nvelry, more wine was consumed on these occa*«ithan in all the rest of the year. (Comp. Heroil61, fi2, with Clemens Alexand. Cohort vol.L a. 1*.That the Nile should have been an object of «mI ship with the Aegyptians, and that its imxzt »phenomena should have entered deeply into uV! whole religious system, was unavoidable. As ngarded its external aspect, it flowed bet« pen «] and rock, the sole giver and sustainer of life in t!s'valley of death: it was, both in its increment n*i iI decrease, in its course through va*t soiiiutie?-mthronged populations alternately, the most su^pe*and expressive of emblems for a religion whiea 1'presented in such marked contrast, the reaixs1 creation and destruction, of O&iriss andI The Nile — as Oceanus, or the watery etaaeaV| was a member of the first Ogdnad of tl«e AefypoI theology (Diodor. i. 6 — 26). the opponent of i'^aI the elemental fire, and the companion of ih* as(Demeter), the air (Xeith), Zeus or Amnn, tquickening spirit, Osiris and Isis, the 5>ufl i'Moon. It was thus one of the primitive; es^nchigher than any member of the second Ogdcad. <*1vi&ible objects of adoration. (Heliod. AftMcp.9: Schol. in PimL Pt/th. iv. 99.) It had its «hieratic emblem on the monuments, somefcTT"?*the Ocean embracing the earth, sometimes, as in 1l temple of Osiris at l'hilae, as the as>iMant of Ttdin the creation of Osiris. The wild crocodile «Mj emblem of Typhon (I'lutarch, Is. et Onr.p. 37'but the tamed crocodile was the symbol ot" the C*swelling, beneficent Nile. (Eoseb. 1'rasp.hi. 11.) Osiris i-s sometimes, but incomctiv. ij (Tibull. Eleg. i. 7, 27) to be the Nile itself (P'/*. ft Osir. c. 33): there is no doubt, howe^rr, tj it was personified and received divine bosonnfestival called Niloa was celebrated at the tin, the first rise of the waters, i. e. about the oor^solstice, at which the priests were acc-is*;tr'. 1drop pieces of coin, and the Roman prefect >i1 Thebaid golden ornaments, into the n\er near P!(Senee. Nat. Quaest. iv. 2, 7); indeed ther? 1have been a priesthood specially dedicated lagreat river, since, according to Herodotus (n. 1I none but a priest of the Nile could bary Llje cnof a person drowned in its waters- Tempies'1 rarely appropriated to the Nile alone; yetI cataeus ((*/>. Steph. s. v. KtlXos) speak* m" xtthe town of Neil us, which stood iu the Hrrs1 polite nome, near the entrance of the f*ye*m.I the quarries at SilsiUs several stelae jut in**1I with acts of adoration to the river, who is joirvdI'hre and l'htah. Its symbol in hirrvy It ^-iread 3/oow, and the last in the group at* u*e 1acters composing it, is a symbol of water. Area