OCR Output THKI1AE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 114? Fhftr is mother important event in the mythicalrs of Thebes, which ra not interwo\'en with them of the legends already related. This is theh of Hercules at Thebes, and the important ser-* which he rendered to his native city by his seamst Orchotnenua. It was stated that the>bsw were compelled to pay tribute to Erginus,r (<Orchomeniis; bat that they were deliveredi (be tribute by Hercules, who marched against Hirnns, and greatly reduced its power (Paua. ix.{1; Steak ix. p. 414 ; Died. iv. 18). This»J has probably arisen from the historical fact, (Vrranienus was at one time the most power-rir? hi Boeotia, and held even Thebes in sub-as. twees in frequently mentioned in Homer, whoks af its celebrated seven gates (/£ iv. 406,n. 263); but its name does not occur in thelofue of the Greek cities which fought againstr, as it was probably supposed not to have re-mi from its recent devastation by the Epigoni.r writers, however, related that Thersander, the i I'ulynices, accompanied Agamemnon to Troy,was slain in Mysia by Telephus, before the cuin-^rwnt of the siege; and that upon his deathrWfaaos chose Peneleos as their leader, in ennse-Ff tx* the) tender age of Tisamenus, the son ofsaadar. (Paus. ix. 5. §§ 14, 15.) In the (ii. 494) Peneleos is mentioned as one of them of the Boeotians, but is not otherwise cou­rt! with Thebes. rswdiog tn the chronology of Thucydides, thenruns continued in possession of Thebes tillrears after the Trojan War, when they were■n oat of their city and country by the Boeotians,UJisn tribe, who migrated from Thessaly.r. i. 12; St rub. ix. p. 401.) This seems toteen the genuine tradition; but as Homer givesume uf Boeotians to the inhabitants of the coun-'ailed Boeotia in later times, Thucydides en-urs to reconcile the authority of the poet withtber tradition, by the supposition that a portionf Aeutic Boeotians bad settled in Boeotia pre-•iT. and that these were the Boeotians who sailedsa Troy. According to other accounts, Thebesuarn by the Thracians and Pelasgians duringi ryjjan War, and its inhabitants driven into exile-■waly, whence tliey returned at a later period,ik ix.' p. 401; Diod. xix. S3,)tjMoiaa gives us a list of the kings of Thebes,•tcresora of Tiaamenos, till the kingly dignitysWisbed and a republic established in its place'> i 16). But, with the exception of one event,;»ow absolutely nothing of Theban history, till!.-»pate between Thebes and Plataea in the lattersf the sixth century B. c event to which we allude is the legislation of•earn, that Corinthian, who was enamoured ofalso a Corinthian, and the victor in theipiao games, B c. 728. Both Philulaus andw» left Ibeir native city and settl«l at Thebes,■ the former drew np a code of laws fur the-«tvi. of which one or two particulars are nien-d by ArUiotle. (Pol ii. 9. §§ 6, 7.) At Uiewhrn Tbebes first appears in history, wc find*Vr sa oligarchical form of government, and the'i a political confederation of some twelve or*m Boeotian cities. The greater cities oftie were members of this confederation, and therr towns were attached to one or other of thesei ta a state of dependence. [Bueotia, p. 415.] The affairs of the confederation were managed \,jcertain magistrates or generals, called Boeotarchs, ofwhom there were eleven at the time of the battle ofDelium (b. c. 424). two being elected by Thebes,and one apparently by each of the other members ufthe confederation (Thuc. iv. 91). But the realauthority was vested in the hands of the Thehans,who used the power of the confederation with an al­most exclusive view to Theban interests, and kepi theether states in virtual subjection. The first well-known event in Grecian history isthe dispute, already mentioned, between Thebes andPlataea. The Plataeans, discontented with thesupremacy of Thebe., withdrew from the Boeotianconfederation, and surrendered their city to thuAthenians. This led to a war between the Thebansand Athenians, in which the Thebans were defeatedand compelled to cede to the Plataeans the territoryS. of the Asopus, which was made the boundarybetween the two states. (Herod, vi. 108; Thuc.iii. 68.) The interference of Athens upon thisoccasion was bitterly resented by Thebes, and wasthe commencement of the long enmity between thetwo states, which exercised an important influence,upon the course of Grecian history. This event isusually placed in B.C. 519, upon the authority ofThucydides (i c); but Mr. Grote brings furwanlstrong reasons for believing that it must have t;ikcuplace after the expulsion of Hippias from Athensin B. c. 510. (Hut. of Greece, vol. iv. p. 222.)The hatred which the Thebans felt against thoAthenians wiis probably one of the reasons whichinduced them to desert the cause of Grecian libertyin the great struggle against the Persian power.But in the Peloponnesian War (b.c. 427) theTheban orator pleaded that their alliance withPersia was not the fault of the nation, bat of a fewindividuals who then exercised despotic power.(Thuc. iii. 62.) At the battle of Plataea, however,the Thebans showed no such reluctance, but foughtresolutely against the Athenians, who were |x»tc<lopposite to them. (Herod, ix. 67.) Eleven daysafter the battle the victorious Greeks appeared beforeThebes, and compelled the inhabitants to surrendertheir meduing leaders, who were immediately putto death, without any trial or father investigation.(Herod, ix. 67, 88.) Thebes had lost so muchcredit by the part she had taken in the Persianinvasion, that she was unable to assert her formersupremacy over the other Boeotian towns, whichwere ready to enter into alliance with Alliens, andwould doubtless have established their completeindependence, had not Sparta supported the Tln-Unsin maintaining their ascendency in the Itncutiauconfederation, as the only means uf securing thoBoeotian cities as the allies of Sparta against Athens.With this view the Spartans assisted the Theliansin strengthening the furtificatinna of their city, anilcompelled the Boeotian cities by f-irce of arms toacknowledge the supremacy of Thebes, (l)iod. xi.81; Justin, iii. 6.) In B.C. 457 the Athenianssent an army intu Boeotia to oppose the Lacedaemo­nian forces in that country, hut they were defeatedby the latter near Tanagra. Sixty-two days afterthis battle (b. c. 456), when the Laxwlarmoiiiaiisliad returned home, the Athenians, under the com­mand of Myronides, invaded Ilucotia a second time.This time they met with the most signal success.At tho battle of Oenophyta they defeated the com­bined forces of the Thebans and Boeotians, and ob­tained in consequence possession of Thebes and of