OCR Output 506 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. these men are hindered from their depreda­tions upon their neighbours, their custom isto prey one upon another; insomuch that nosort of injustice comes amiss to them. Butwhen Herod had received this grant fromCaesar, and was come into this country, heprocured skilful guides, and put a stop totheir wicked robberies, and procured peaceand quietness to the neighbouring people. Hereupon Zenodorus was grieved, in thefirst place, because his principality was takenaway from him; and still more so, because heenvied Herod, who had gotten it. So hewent up to Rome to accuse him; but returnedback without success. Now Agrippa was,about this time, sent to succeed Caesar in thegovernment of the countries beyond the Ioniansea; and Herod met with him when he waswintering about *Mitylene; (for he had beenhis particular friend and companion;) andthen returned into Judea again. Some of theGadarenes now came to Agrippa, and accusedHerod; but they were sent back bound to theking, without a hearing. The Arabians, how­ever, who of old bare ill will to Herod's go­vernment, were incensed, and at that timeattempted to raise a sedition in his dominions;and, as they thought, upon a more justifiableoccasion. For Zenodorus, despairing alreadyof success as to his own affairs, prevented hisenemies by selling to those Arabians a part ofhis principality, called Auranitis, for the valueof fifty talents. But as this was included inthe donation of Caesar, they contested thepoint with Herod, as unjustly deprived ofwhat they had bought. Sometimes they didthis by making incursions upon his territories,sometimes by attempting force against him,and sometimes by going to law with him.They also persuaded the poorer soldiers tohelp them, and were troublesome to him; outof a constant hope that they should inducethe people to raise a sedition. In which de­signs those that are in the most miserable cir­cumstances of life are still the most earnest.And although Herod had been a great whileapprised of these attempts; yet did not he in­dulge any severity against them; but by ra­tional methods aimed to mitigate things, asnot willing to give any handle for tumults. Now4- when Herod had reigned for seven- * These cities, Mitylene and Gadara, have both coinsstill extant; as Spanheim here informs us. teen years, Caesar came into Syria: at whichtime the greatest part of the inhabitants ofGadara clamoured against Herod, as one thatwas heavy in his injunctions, and tyrannical.These reproaches they chiefly ventured uponby the encouragement of Zenodorus; whotook his oath that he would never leave Herodtill he had procured that they should be sepa­rated from Herod's kingdom, and joined toCaesar's province. The Gadarenes were in­duced hereby, and made no small cry againsthim: and that the more boldly, because thosethat had been delivered up by Agrippa, werenot punished by Herod; who let them go,and did them no harm. For indeed he wasthe principal man in the world who appearedalmost inexorable in punishing crime in hisown family; but very generous in remittingthe offences that were committed elsewhere.And while they accused Herod of injuries,and plunderings, and subversions of temples,he stood unconcerned, and was ready to makehis defence. However, Caesar gave him hisright hand; and remitted nothing of his kind­ness to him, upon this disturbance by themultitude. And indeed these things werealleged the first day: but the hearing pro­ceeded no farther. For as the Gadarenessaw the inclination of Caesar and of his asses­sors; and expected, as they had reason to do,that they should be delivered up to the king;some of them, out of a dread of the tormentsthey might undergo, cut their own throats inthe night, and some of them threw themselvesdown precipices; and others cast themselvesinto the river, and destroyed themselves oftheir own accord. Which accidents seemeda sufficient condemnation of the rashness andcrimes they had been guilty of. HereuponCaesar made no longer delay, but clearedHerod from the crimes he was accused of.Another happy accident there was, which wasa farther great advantage to Herod at thistime. For Zenodorus's belly burst, and agreat quantity of blood issued from him in hissickness, and he thereby departed this life atAntioch in Syria. So Caesar bestowed hiscountry upon Herod. It lay between Trachonand Galilee; and contained Ulatha, and Pa-neas, and the country round about. He alsomade him one of the procurators of Syria; t An. 21.