OCR Output SOMA. BOMA. 731 rci wu not situated in the place here assigned totot in the Foram Olitoriam ontaide the Portamra'alia As the opinion of so distinguished a.u- u Jlrnnmsru is entitled to (Treat attention,iball here briefly review his argument*. They'b< ititfj is follows. That the temple of Janusa lie Foram Olitorium may be shown from Ta-i: "El Jano templum, quod apud Fonim Olito-■ C Dailioi itruxerat (dedicarit Tiberius),"u a. 49); aod also from Festus: "Rcligioni estw<kn porta Cinnentali egredi et in aede Jani,i nl «tri earn, senatum habcri, quod ea egrcssir ■ntnli r'abii apud Cremeram oinncs interfecti..lit. iaatde Jani S.C. factum esset, ut proficis-:.-i*"(tt, 285, MU1L). But this temple was nn-*Jly tie same as the famous one founded byi. uA Damns could only hare restored, not'it; liaca it can be shown that there was onlyIt-i;pi( ({Janus at Home before the time of'■aa Thus Ovid (as may be been in the pas-»pooled) asks Janus, — 'V M tint Jani cur ataa sacratus, in urn,H e ata juncta foria templa duobus habes?" MT.f thing appears from the following passage•Bid (x, 38.2), which shows that, before De­ft meted the Janus Quadrifrons in the Forumniram, the god had only one little temple: — * ttnm exignoa habitabas ante Penates1'mrima qua medium Koma terebat iter.*' * ia.t« situation of this only temple is alsoalbj Servius (oa* Atn. vii. 607): " SacrariumJ Nana Pompilius feccrat— Quod Numa in-m, tnuttlatum est ad Forum Transitorium."■faia Sacxarium hoc Numa Pompilius feceratonua Argiletum jnxta theatram Marcelli."!> situation of the sole temple of Janus is- V u* preponderance of the best authority,° ^< rest on mere conjecture. trie wnarfcs of Momtnsen's we miss that ac-'■( interpretation which is so necessary in'< ;gMu«s of this description. The word*tn'~.' us«d by Tacitus, denotes the erectionnr> bfiktiag, and cannot be applied to themtoration of an ancient one. Nor, had there'ii-r temple of Janus, would it have been17 '.11 designate the precise situation of this'T "ia "apud Forum Olitorium." Again, the •f Orid refer, not to one temple, but to one. »ak£, bowerrr, as we have seen, was con - «to a sort of small temple. "When there! Qarr Jani, why is jour image consecrated1 w?" This, then, was not a temple in theme of the word ; that is, a building of sucha* to kt fit for assemblies 01 the senate, but tfct Kttfc aacdlnm described by Ovid. Let: H nunsra's own description of it, drawn fromaan. and from that of Martial just quoted:Jani aedes (quod luculentissime apparetwois supra laudatis) non nisi Janus ali- • 'nirju sire quadrifrons, Dei statua ornatns,'•: Nana fecit, fornix erat pervius ad portam'ti'#Ti spplicatus, quo transibant onirics qui."« Martw Foroque Olitorio venicntes Boarium*»w pttebant" (p. 307 ). But - overlookingas how the building of Numa could have been4 b a gat* erected in the time of Servius — 1 ;»Mibit to cooceire that, as Mommsen in-•■ 'v »on)> of Festus, the senate could haveKilled in a little place of this description, the common thoroughfare of the Romans? Besides,we have the express testimony of Livy, that theSenatus Consultum, sanctioning the departure ofthe Fabii, was made in the usual place for themeetings of the senate,—the Curia Hostilia. "Con­sul e Curia egressns, comitante Fabiorum agmine,qui in vestibulo curiae, senatus consultum exspee-tantes, steterant, domum rediit" (ii. 48). Livy iscertainly a better witness on such a point than Festus;whose account, therefore, is overthrown, not only byits inherent improbability, but also by the weight ofsuperior authority. All that we can infer from hiswords is, that the temple of Janus, outside the PortaCarmentalis, was sufficiently large to hold an as­sembly of the senate ; but this circumstance itself issufficient proof that it could not have been the origi­nal little temple, or saccltum, of Numa. There areother objections to the account of Festus. It wasnot ominous, as he says, to go out at the Carmentalgate, but to go out through the right arch of thegate (" infelici via dextro Jano porlne Carmentalisprofecti, ad Creineram flumen perveniunt," lb. c. 49).If the whole gate had been accursed, how could asacred procession like that of the virgins from thetemple of Apollo to that of Juno Begins, describedby Livy (xxvii. 37), have passed through it? Norcan it be told whether the relative ea refers to thePorta Carmentalis, as sense, or to aeiles Jani, asgrammar, requires. Further, it would be contraryto the usual custom, as Becker correctly remarks(Handbuch, p. 139, note), for the senate to assembleoutside of the gates to deliberate on a domesticmatter of this nature. Then, with reference toOvid's description, he could not have mentionedthe sacellum of Janus as adjoining two fora, had itstood where Mommsen places it, where it would havebeen separated from the Forum ltomonum by thewhole length of the Vicus Jugarius. Besides, it isplain from the passage of the Fasti before quotedthat the original temple stood at the font of a clivus,or descent from the Capitoline. Yet Mommsen putsit at the very top of the hill over the Carmentalgate (" in ipso monte," p. 310, vide his plan at the endof the volume), where the hill is most abrupt, andwhere there could not possibly have been any clivus,and the Porta Janualis at the bottom. We shouldremark, too, that the reading, "arduus in valles etfora clivus erat," is not a mere conjecture of Becker,as Mommsen seems to think (p. 310), but the com­mon reading; and that to substitute "per fora " in­stead would make evident nonsense. Nor in that casedo we see how the temple could have been "apudForum Olitorium," as Tacitus says, even if apud onlymeans near, not at: and still less how it could haveadjoined the theatre of Marcel I us ("juxta thea-trum Marcelli "), as indicated by Servius. What hasbeen said will also be sufficient to refute the lastnamed commentator in stating this to be the originaltemple. He has evidently confounded the two. We can therefore only agree in part with thesomewhat severe censure which Mommsen has pro­nounced on Becker on this occasion. "At quodsomniavit de aede Jani sine sinmlacro (p. 259),quod Festurn, quod Servium gravissimi erroris in-cusavit (p. 139, n. 254. seq.), id vix condonohomini philulogo" (p. 307). It appears, we trust,pretty plainly, that Festus and .Servius must havebeen in error; but we cannot admit a temple with­out an image. The explanation we have alreadygiven, that Ovid is alludiug to a Janus, not to aproper temple, may obviate the difficulty. But we