OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL various tribes of Britons possessed valour without conduct, and thelove of freedom, without the spirit of union. They took up armswith savage fierceness; they laid them down, or turned themagainst each other with wild inconstancy; and while they foughtsingly, they were successively subdued. Neither the fortitude ofCaractacus, nor the despair of Boadicea, nor the fanaticism of theDruids could avert the slavery of their country, or relist the steadyprogress of the Imperial generals, who maintained the nationalglory, when the throne was disgraced by the weakest, or the mostvicious of mankind. At the very time when Domitian, confined tohis palace, felt the terrors which he inspired; his legions, under thecommand of the virtuous Agricola, defeated the collected forceof the Caledonians, at the foot of the Grampian hills; and his fleets,venturing to explore an unknown and dangerous navigation,displayed the Roman arms round every part of the island. Theconquest of Britain was considered as already atchieved; and it wasthe design of Agricola to complete and ensure his success, by theeasy reduction of Ireland, for which, in his opinion, one legion anda few auxiliaries were sufficient9. The western ifle might beimproved into a valuable possession, and the Britons would weartheir chains with the less reluctance, if the prospect and example offreedom was on every side removed from before their eyes. But the superior merit of Agricola soon occasioned his removalfrom tha-government of Britain; and for ever disappointed thisrational, though extensive scheme of conquest. Before his depar­ture, the prudent general had provided for security as well as fordominion. He had observed, that the island is almost divided intotwo unequal parts, by the opposite gulfs, or as they are now called*the Firths of Scotland. Across the narrow interval of about fortymiles, he had drawn a line of military stations, which was after­wards fortified in the reign of Antoninus Pius, by a turf ramparterected on foundations of stone *°. This wall of Antoninus, at a small