OCR Output 186 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. > CHAP. III. of Samuel's attention to public affairs, the eviladministration of the government by his sons, andthe subsequent demand of the multitude to begoverned by a king. THE prophet Samuel, when he had or­dained the affairs of the people, aftera convenient manner, and had appointed acity for every district of them; he commandedthem to come to such cities to have the con­troversies that they had one with another de­termined; he himself going over those citiestwice in a year, and doing them justice. Andby that means he kept them in very goodorder for a long time. But afterward he found himself oppressedwith old age, and not able to do as he haddone formerly. So he committed the govern­ment, and the care of the multitude, to hissons; the elder of whom was called Joel, andthe name of the younger was Abiah. He alsoenjoined them to reside and judge the people,the one at the city Bethel, and the other atBeer-sheba; and divided the people into dis­tricts, that should be under the jurisdiction ofeach of them. Now these men afforded usan evident example and demonstration, howsome children are not of the like dispositionswith their parents; but sometimes perhapsgood and moderate, though born of wickedparents, and sometimes shewing themselvesto be wicked, though born of good parents.For these men, turning aside from their fa­ther's good courses, perverted justice for thefilthy lucre of gifts and bribes; and madetheir determinations, not according to truth,but according to bribery; and turned aside to * It may probably be made a question, why God did notpunish Samuel, as he did Eli, for the wickedness of hissons? But to this it may be answered, that Samuel's sonswere not so bad as those of Eli; since taking bribes pri­vately was not like openly profaning the tabernacle, andmaking the worship of God contemptible. And besidesthis, it is possible that Samuel might be ignorant of thecorruption of his sons, since he lived at Ramah, and theyat Beer-sheba. Patrick's Comment. B. t 1 Sam. viii. 5. J It is generally supposed, that what made the Israel­ites so urgent at this time for a king, was a present straitthey thought themselves in, for want of an able leader; forNahash, the king of the Amorites, coming up to JabeshGilead, and encamping before it, had put the inhabitantsinto such a fright, that, without more to do, they offeredto surrender upon terms; telling him, that they would be- luxury, and a voluptuous way of living. Sothat, as in the first place, they practised whatwas contrary to the will of God; so did theywhat was contrary to the will of the prophet,their father, who had taken a great deal ofcare, and made very careful provision that themultitude should be righteous.* Upon these injuries offered to their formerconstitution and government, by the prophet'ssons, the people were very uneasy at theiractions, and came running to the prophet,who then lived at the city Ramah, and in­formed him of the transgressions of his sons;and said, that as he himself was old already,and too infirm to oversee their affairs in themanner he used to do; so they intreated himto appoint some person to be king over them,fwhoj might rule over the nation, and avengethem of the Philistines, who ought to bepunished for their former oppressions. Thesewords greatly afflicted Samuel, on account ofhis innate love of justice, and his hatred toregal government, for he was very fond of anaristocracy, as what mad^ the men that usedit of a divine and happy disposition. Norcould he either think of eating and sleeping,out of his concern and torment of mind atwhat they had said, but all the night long didhe continue awake, and revolved these no­tions in his mind. While he was thus disposed, God appearedto him, and comforted him, saying, that heought not to be uneasy at what the multitudedesired, because it was not he, but Himself,whom they so insolently despised, and wouldnot have to be alone their King; that theyhad been contriving these things from thevery day that they came out of Egypt; that, come subjects to him if he would make a league with them,1 Sam. xi. 1. But the haughty Amorite, in contempt ofIsrael, let them know, that if he made n league with them,the condition thereof should be, that they should come outto him, and let him thrust out all their right eyes, and layit for a reproach upon all Israel. The elders of Jabesh,in this sad circumstance, demanded seven days'respite,that they might send messengers unto all the coasts of Is­rael, and if in that time no succours arrived they wouldsubmit. This, it is thought, was the reason for theirpressing so hard upon Samuel at this time for a king;whereas their duty was to have enquired of the Lord, asthey had done *t other times, who it was that he would bepleased to constitute the general in this exigence, to leadout their forces against their enemies. Howell's History,in the notes. B.