OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 219 "province, urged, with vigour and diligence, the chap."execution of the work, horrible balls of fire break- xvm,"ing out near the foundations, with frequent and"reiterated attacks, rendered the place, from time"to time, inaccessible to the scorched and blasted"workmen; and the victorious element continuing"in this manner obstinately and resolutely bent, as*' it were, to drive them to a distance, the under-"taking was abandoned." Such authority shouldsatisfy a believing, and must astonish an incredulous,mind. Yet a philosopher may still require the ori­ginal evidence of impartial and intelligent spectators.At this important crisis, any singular accident ofnature would assume the appearance, and producethe effects, of a real prodigy. This glorious deliver­ance would be speedily improved and magnified bythe pious art of the clergy of Jerusalem, and theactive credulity of the Christian world; and, at thedistance of twenty years, a Roman historian, carelessof theological disputes, might adorn his work withthe specious and splendid miracle *. The restoration of the Jewish temple was secretly Partialityconnected with the ruin of the Christian church.of JuUan,Julian still continued to maintain the freedom ofreligious worship, without distinguishing, whetherthis universal toleration proceeded from his justice,or his clemency. He affected to pity the unhappyChristians, who were mistaken in the most importantobject of their lives; but his pity was degraded bycontempt, his contempt was embittered by hatred;and the sentiments of Julian were expressed in astyle of sarcastic wit, which inflicts a deep and deadlywound, whenever it issues from the mouth of asovereign. As he was sensible that the Christians * Dr. Lardner, perhaps alone of the Christian critics, presumes to doubt thetruth of this famous miracle (Jewish and Heathen Testimonies, vol. iv. p. 47—71.). The silence of Jerorne would lead to a suspicion, that the same story,which was celebrated at a distance, might be despised on the spot.