OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ductive of sentiments of veneration. Like the modesty affectedby Augustus, the state maintained by Diocletian was a thea­trical representation; but it must be confessed, that of the twocomedies, the former was of a much more liberal and manlycharacter than the latter. It was the aim of the one to disguise,and the object of the other to display, the unbounded power whichthe emperors possessed over the Roman world. Ostentation was the first principle of the new system instituted by New so™ ofDiocletian. The second was division. He divided the empire, the tion>two . ... Augusti, and provinces, and every branch of the civil as well as military admi- two Cæsars,nistration. He multiplied the wheels of the machine of govern­ment, and rendered its operations less rapid but more secure.Whatever advantages, and whatever defects might attend theseinnovations, they must be ascribed in a very great degree to thefirst inventor; but as the new frame of policy was graduallyimproved and completed by succeeding princes, it will be moresatisfactory to delay the consideration of it till the season of its fullmaturity and perfection ,C5. Reserving, therefore, for the reign ofConstantine a more exact picture of the new empire, we shall con-'tent ourselves with describing the principal and decisive outline, as-it was traced by the hand of Diocletian. He had associated threecolleagues in the exercise of the supreme power; and as he wasconvinced that the abilities of a single man were inadequate to thepublic defence, he considered the joint administration of four princesnot as a temporary expedient, but as a fundamental law of the con­stitution. It was his intention, that the two elder princes shouldbe distinguished by the use of the diadem, and the title of Augusti ithat, as affection or esteem might direct their choice, they shouldregularly call to their assistance two subordinate colleagues; andthat the Cœfors, rising in their turn to the first rank, should supplyan uninterrupted succession' of emperors. The empire wc:s dividedinto four parts. The East and Italy were the most honourable, the Danube