OCR Output 334 CINNA AND SUHA. [Book IV. agreement, which had seemed so near, was not effected; itwas Scipio who denounced the armistice. But Sulla main­tained that it was too late and that the agreement had beenalready concluded; whereupon Scipio's soldiers, under thepretext that their general had wrongfully denounced thearmistice, passed over en masse to the ranks of the enemy.The scene closed with an universal embracing, at which thecommanding officers of the revolutionary army had to look on.Sulla gave orders that the consul should be summoned toresign his office, which he did, and should along with hisstaff be escorted by his cavalry to whatever point they de­sired; but Scipio was hardly set at liberty when he resumedthe insignia of his dignity and began afresh to collect troops,without however executing anything further of moment.Sulla and Metellus took up winter quarters in Campaniaand, after the failure of a second attempt to come to termswith Norbanus, maintained the blockade of Capua duringthe winter.Prepara- The results of the first campaign in favour of Sulla were tions on ttie submission of Apulia, Picenum, and Campania, the dis­solution of the one, and the vanquishing and blockading of theother, consular army. The Italian communities, compelledseverally to choose between their two oppressors, alreadyentered in many instances into negotiations with him, andcaused the political rights which had been won from theopposition-party to be guaranteed to them by formal sepa­rate treaties on the part of the general of the oligarchy. Sullacherished the distinct expectation, and intentionally madeboast of it, that he would overthrow the revolutionary govern­ment in the next campaign and again march into Rome. But despair seemed to furnish the revolution with freshenergies. The consulship was committed to two of its mostdecided leaders, to Carbo for the third time and to GaiusMarius the younger; the circumstance that the latter, whowas just twenty years of age, could not legally be investedwith the consulship, was as little heeded as any other pointof the constitution. Quintus Sertorius, who in this andother matters proved an inconvenient critic, was ordered toproceed to Etruria with a view to procure new levies, andthence to his province Hither Spain. To replenish thetreasury, the senate was obliged to decree the melting downof the gold and silver vessels of the temples in the capital:that the produce was considerable, is clear from the fact both sides.