OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OP THE ROMAN UMPIRE. possessed, and bequeathed by the soldier alone; and thefair analogy was extended to the emoluments of any li­beral profession, the salary of public service, and the sa­cred liberality of the emperor or the empress. The lifeof a citizen was less exposed than his fortune to theabuse of paternal power. Yet his life might be adverseto the interest or passions of an unworthy father: thesame crimes that flowed from the corruption, were moresensibly felt by the humanity, of the Augustan age ; andthe cruel Erixo, who whipped his son till he expired, wassaved by the emperor from the just fury of the multi­tude/ The Roman father, from the license of serviledominion, was reduced to the gravity and moderation ofa judge. The presence and opinion of Augustus con­firmed the sentence of exile pronounced against an in­tentional parricide by the domestic tribunal of Arius.Hadrian transported to an island the jealous parent, who,like a robber, had seized the opportunity of hunting, toassassinate a youth, the incestuous lover of his step­mother.8 A private jurisdiction is repugnant to the spi­rit of monarchy; the parent was again reduced from ajudge to an accuser; and the magistrates were enjoinedby Severus Alexander to hear his complaints and executehis sentence. He could no longer take the life of a sonwithout incurring the guilt and punishment of murder;and the pains of parricide, from which he had been ex­empted by the Pompeian law, were finally inflicted bythe justice of Constantine.' The same protection wasdue to every period of existence: and reason must applaudthe humanity of Paulus, for imputing the crime of mur- - r The examples of Krixo and Arias are related by Seneca, (de Clement!*, 1. 14, 15.) the former with horTor, the latter withapplfluse. • * •. '■ Quod latronis magis quam patris jure eum interfeoit, nam patria poteslas in pie-late debet nou in alrocitate oonsiatere. (Marcian, Inatitut. lib. 14. in Pandect, lib.48. tit. 9. leg. 5.) < ■ 1 The Pompeian and Cornelian laws de sicariis and parricidis, are repeated, or ra­ther abridged, with the last supplements of Alexander Severus, Constantine, and Va-lentinian, in the Pandects, (lib. 48. tit. 8, 9.) and Code. (lib. 9. tit. 16,17.) . Seelikewise the Theodosian Code, (lib. 9. tit. 14, 15.) with Godefroy's Comnienlarv,(torn. 3. p. 84—113.) who pours a flood of ancient and modern learning over thesepenal laws.