OCR Output B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 213 cusans were plainly vanquished, which gave them whoabandoned the last an opportunity to sail away withoutobstruction. For that Syracusan squadron, that wasengaged before the harbour's mouth, having forcedtheir way through the Athenian fleet, by sailing for­wards in a disorderly manner and continually runningfoul one upon another, gave the Athenians an opportu­nity to regain the day. For this squadron they soonrouted, and afterwards that, within the harbour, bywhich they had been vanquished. They also sunk ele­ven ships of the enemy, and made a slaughter of all theircrews, those of three ships excepted, to whom theygranted quarter; and all this with the lose only of threeships on their own side. Having afterwards drawn a-shore the shatters of the Syracusan fleet, and piled theminto a trophy on the little isle before Plemmyrium, theyretired to their main incampment. Thus unsuccessful were the Syracusans in their navalengagement. They had carried, however, the forts atPlemmyrium; and, to signalize each of their acquisi­tions, they erected three several trophies. One, also,of the two forts that were taken last they levelled withthe ground, but the other two they repaired and garri­soned. In this furprisal of the forts, many were slain and ma­ny were made prisoners, and a great stock of wealthreposited there became the prize of the enemy. For,as the Athenians had made use of these forts by wayof magazine, much wealth belonging to merchants,and corn in abundance, were found within; much alsoof the stores belonging to the captains of the shipsof war,. inasmuch as forty masts for triremes, and othermaterials of resitment, had been laid up there; andthree triremes were hauled ashore to be careened. Nay,this furprisal of Plemmyrium wasoneof thechief if not thegreatest source of all the distress which the Athenian armysuffered in the sequel; for no longer was the sea open tothem for the secure importation of necessary supplies. P 3 From