OCR Output 402 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. they fled away, the horsemen trampled them down, so that agreat many fell down dead by the strokes of the Romans, andmore by their own violence in crushing one another. Nowthere was a terrible crowding about the gates, and while everybody was making haste to get before another, the flight of themall was retarded, and a terrible destruction there was amongthose that fell down, for they were suffocated, and broken topieces by the multitude of those that were uppermost; nor couldany of them be distinguished by his relations in order to thecare of his funeral; the soldiers also who beat them, fell uponthose whom they overtook, without shewing them any mercy,and thrust the multitude through the place called* Bezetha, asthey forced their way in order to get in and seize upoa thetemple, and the tower Antonia. Florus also being desirous toget those places into his possession, brought such as were withliim out of the king's palace, and would have compelled them toget as far as the citadel [Antonia.]; but his attempt failed, forthe people immediately turned back upon him, and stopped theviolence of his attempt, and as they stood upon the tops of theirhouses, they threw their darts at the Romans, who, as theywere sorely galled thereby, because those weapons came fromabove, and they were not abl« to make a passage through themultitude, which stopped up the narrow passages, they retiredto the camp which was at the palace. 6. But for the seditious, they were afraid lest Florus shouldcome again, and get possession of the temple, through Antonia;so they got immediately upon those cloisters of the temple thatjoined to Antonia, and cut them' down. This cooled the ava­rice of Florus, for whereas he was eager to obtain the treasuresof God [in the temple], and on that account was desirous of get­ting into Antonia, as soon as the cloisters were broken down,he left off his attempt; he then sent for the high-priests and theSanhedrim, and told them, that he was indeed himself going outof the city, but that he would leave them as large a garrison asthey should desire. Hereupon they promised that they wouldmake no innovations, in case he would leave them one band; but * I take this Bezetha to be that small hill adjoining to the north side of thetemple, whereon was the hospital with live porticoes or cloisters, and beneathwhich was the sheep pool of Bethesda, into which an angel or messenger, at acertain season, descended, and where he or they, who were the " first put into" the pool," were cured,!John v. I, &c. This situation of Bezetha, in Josephus,on the north side of the temple, and not far off the tower Antonia, exactly agreesto the place of the same pool at this day. Only the remaining cloisters are butthree. See Maundrel, page 106. The entire buildings seem to have been calledthe Ntia City, and this part, where was the hospital, peculiarly Bezetha or Beth-See chap. six. § 4.