OCR Output 564 PELASGI. PELASGI. port them, they crossed over in ships to Italy, culledSaturnia, in obedience to the oracle. The windsbore them to Spines, on one of the mouths of the Po,where they established themselves, and by the helpof their fleet acquired great power. They were,however, eventualiy driven out by an insurrection ot"the neighbouring barbarians, who were in turn over­powered by the Komans (i. 18). The Pelasgiansthence migrated inland, crossed the Apennines, andentered the country of the Umbrians, who borderedon the Aborigines, and extended over a great part ofItaly, being a numerous and powerful people. Herethey established themselves for some time, and tooksome small towns from the Umbrians; but, beingoverpowered by them, they removed into the countryof the Aborigines. When they came to Cotyle, theyrecognised the spot where the oracle had told themthey were to offer up a sacrifice to Jupiter, Pluto,and Phoebus, On this they invited the Aborigines,who came to attack them, to join alliance withthem; which invitation they, being hard pressed byt he Siculi, accepted, and gave the Pelasgi Velia todwell in. The latter then helped the Aborigines toconquer Crotona in Umbria, and to drive the Sicelsout of their land. Together they founded severalcities, Caere. Agylla, Pisa, Saturnium, and others,which wen- taken by the Tyrrhenians. Dionysiussays that Phalerium and Feseennia retained in histime certain faint traces of the old Pelasgic popula­tion, especially in the weapons of war—viz, Argohcspears and shields—and the institution of fetials.and other religious rites. There was a temple ofHera at Falerium, exactly like that at Argos, wherewere similar sacrifices, and similar priestesses, eane-phori, and choruses of maidens. The Pelasgi also occupied parts of Campania,driving out the Aurunci, and founded Larissa andother cities. Some of these remained, after under­going many changes of inhabitants, in Dionysius'stime. Of Larissa there was no memorial save thename, and this was not commonly known ; but itssite was not far from Forum Popilii. (Plin. iii. 15.)They took many cities from the Sicels, too, andestablished their power along the coast and inland. The Pelasgi, having driven out the Sicels, increasedin power and extent of territory. Eventually, how­ever, they incurred the anger of the gods, and sufferedvarious penalties at their hands. On consulting theoracle, they were told that they had neglected toperform their oaths, in not sacrificing their first-born;is well as the fruits of the Held. Myrsilms tells thisstory, adding that the Pelasgi were soon dispersed indifferent directions, some returning to Greece, andothers remaining in Italy by the friendly interventionof the Aborigines. They were a warlike race, andacquired great skill in naval matters from their resi­dence with the Tyrrhenians. On this account theywere often invited by other nations to serve as auxili­aries, and were called by the names Tyrrheni andPelasgi indiscriminately (i. IS — 23). Respecting the former name he says that it wasuivcu them on account of the forts, rvprav, which theybuilt. Hellantcus of Lesbos says that the Tyrrheni,formerly called Pelasgi, received the name which theybear after their arrival in Italy. For the counter-theory of MyrsiluK see Dionys. i. 28. Dionysius thinks all are mistaken who hold theTyrrheni and the Pelasgi to 1* the same race. Hethinks no argument can be drawn from the fact oftheir names being used indiscriminately, as that wasvery common, e.g., in the case of the Trojans and Phrygians. Moreover, the Greeks called all luia»—Latins, Umbrians, Ausones, &c—Tyrrhenians. E?s*Rome was believed by many to be a Tvrrbtw e'».Dionysius quotes Herodotus (i. 5") in support tf tuopinion that the Pelasgians and Tyrrhenian* u* n*of the same origin. It would be a wonderful tfaiaf,he says, if the Crotoniatae spoke the same dnWtnthe Placieni on the Hellespont, both beta: Pt'a*-plans, but should not speak the same dialed a t>Tyrrhenians, if they were also Pela*2i. F« tbcontrary of the proposition — if AmryAunrffK. tiwonotfli'fts — holds good : i.e. if aWffyKmaeot. ifcsi&Xkot6viis. If the case- were reversed, tb^re naftabe a show of reason for believing thrtn of tb* its*origin ; for it might be said that distance hil1 iterated early traces of resemblance: bat *ber.are so near each other as the Crotomatap am; i}~rheni this supposition is untenable (i. 29V Hence Dionysius believes the IVlaagians iriTtsrhenians to be distinct He sums up all tiy a*1^that those Pelasgians who survived the final <li?T*Jsi on and ruin of the race existed among the AbortfBBand their descendants helped them and other trato build Rome (i. 30). It is unnecessary to remark the difference brtwCrotona in Umbria and Creston in Thrace,Dionysius unsuspectingly josses over. The «SWsomewhat lengthy extracts have been made fmtallRoman Antiquities, because they pive w a tptt Ispecimen of the way in which scattered tncnlwere dressed up in a quasi-historical garb, and 6skout with any stray evidence which local namalanguage might supply. The common native tradition of the Latin* >ttestifies to an immigration of so called Aborifflnot to any mixture of Pelasgi with thera. Ob Iother hand, another, which has received th* ttmony of Varro, and which agrees in other refjdwith the narration of Dionysius, sjieaks of a\migration of Pelasgians, but says nothing of Ab^rrJmixed with or allied with them. Certain i: ihistorians have combined these two trad/:-r** idifferent way to that of Dimrrnvs, makhu:Aborigines, namely, declare themselves Xn btcwthe same people with the Pelasgians. Tbi?, Mstance is, without any doubt, the meaning "f 0assertion that the Aborigines came over iatolmany generations before the Trojan War. «4Aehaia; for so he named the old Pelasc* G*by the common appellation of his time. ^SeiiwjRomucfte Ge$ch. iii. 2.) We find the >.■»■• tr^iof a Pelasgic immigration into I-atinm enrfinadmany other testimonies. Pliny declares trial wiwas brought into Latinm by the Pelasgi. 11question, however, whether by tlie>e PeLv^gi b* athose who came out of Thessaly arjd l>»*it*5a, 4Arcadians of Evander. Other traditions assert the name of" Rin*f 1Pelasgian, and derive the Saturnalia fnwD %originally instituted by the PcU.sg-ii.na whi* 4on the Saturnian hill. "In other parts of Italy we srtimbW rer^Csays Schwegler, 11 on the same wide*-ex tendedThus, it is said that tiie Hernk-i werefrom the Pelasgi. Picenum also is sani to h**occupied by the Pelasgi. Keport also aawithe towns of Nuceria. HercuUneum, and pwere founded by them, or that thev dwrh ina certain time. Other instance* havt- ben agiven of towns and districts with w'lichhistory has associated the name U tUr Ptimi ~