OCR Output Ill) LACONIA. LACON'IA. plain, and hence Euripides, in contrasting the twocountries, describes Laconia as a poor land, in whichthere is a large tract of arable, hut of laborioustillage (ap. Strab. viii. p. 366). This is in ac­cordance with the account of Leake, who says thatthe soil of the plain is in general a poor mixture ofwhite clay and stones, difficult to plough, and bettersuited to olives than corn. (Sforea. vol. i. p. 148.)The vale, however, possesses a genial climate, beingsheltered on every side by mountains, and thescenery is of the most beantiful description. HenceLacedaemon has been aptly characterised by Homeras " a hollow pleasant valley" (koiAt) iparurfi, 11.ii. 581, Ui. 443, Od iv. 1). The climate is favour­able to beauty; and the women of the Spartan plainare at present taller and more robust than the otherGreeks, have more colour in general, and lookhealthier; which agrees also with Homer's Aojm-iaifiova KaWiyvvaiKa (Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p.149). The security of the Spartan plain againsthostile attacks has been briefly alluded to. Therewere only two roads practicable for an invadingarmy; one by the upper Kurotas, leading fromsouthern Arcadia and Stcnyclarus; the other by thelong and narrow valley of the Onus, in which thoroads from Tegea and Argos united near Sellasia. 3. Vale of the Ixncer Eurotas. At the southernextremity of the Spartan plain, the mountains againapproach so close, as to leave scarcely space for thepassage of the Eurotas. The mountains on thewestern side are the long and lofty counterfurk oflit, Taygetus, called Lykobini, which has beenalready mentioned. This gorge, through which theEurotas issues from the vale of Sparta into themaritime plain, is mentioned by Strabo (o Ei'pwras— oifjiu'p axi\uvi Tira pcurpov, viiL p. 343). It isabout 12 miles in length. The maritime plain,which is sometimes called the plain of Helos, fromthe town of this name upon the coast, is fertile andof some extent. In the lower part of it the Eurotasflows through marshes and sandbanks into the La-conian golf. The banks of the Eurotas and the dry parts ofiU bed are overgrown with a profusion of reeds.Hence the epithets of ooraxoTpoipos and Sovtutiimare frequently given to it by the poets. (Theogn.785; Eurip Iphig. in Aid. 179, Helm. 207.) The only tributary of the Eurotas, which pos­sesses an independent valley, is the Genus alreadymentioned. The other tributaries are mere moun­tain torrents, of which the two following nameshave been preserved, both descending from Mt. Tay­getus through the Spartan plain: TlASA (Tiaaa,I'aus. iii. 18. § 6; Athcn. iv. p. 139), placed byI'ausanias on the road from Amyclae to Spuria, andhence identified by I>eake with the Pandelrimona;1'iir.i.UA c+.AA.a. iii. 20. §3), the river betweenAmyclae and Pharis. The Cnacion (Kraxiuf),mentioned in one of the ordinances of Lycurgus, wasidentified by later writers with the Oeuus. (HluULgc.6.) The streams Smf.si'8 and Sctbah, flowing intothe sea on the western side of the LaconUin gulf,are spoken of below. [See p. 114, b.] Before leaving the rivers of laconia, a few wordsmust be said respecting an ancient La<■■ nian bridgestill existing, which has been assigned to the re­motest antiquity. This is the bridge of Xrrntampo,built over a tributary of the Eurotas, about threehours' ride to the south of S|«rta, just where thestream issues from one of the deepest and darkest gorges of Taygetus. It was first discovered byltoss, and has been described by Mure, who supplesit to belong to the same period as the monuments ofMycenae. Even if it does not belong to so early adate, but is a genuine Hellenic work, it would esta­blish the fact that the Greeks were acquainted withthe use of the concentric arch at a very early period;whereas it has been usually supposed that it was)not known to them till the time of Alexander theGreat. The general appearance and character ofthis structure will be best seen from the annexeddrawing tuken from Mure. The masonry is of thepolygonal species: the largest stones are those of thearch, some of which are from four to five feet lung,from two to three in breadth, and between one andtwo in thickness. From the character of the struc­ture, and from its remote situation, Mure concludesthat it cannot be a Roman work; and there arestrong reasons for believing that the Greeks wereacquainted with the use of the arch at a muchearlier period than has been usually supposed.(Mure, vul. ii. p. 247, seq.; comp. Leake, l'tloptm-naiaca, p, 116, seq.) UIU1H.E OF XF.KOKAMrO. There arc no other plains in I-aconia except thethree above mentioned in the valley of the Eurotas;but on the slopes of the mountains, especially onthose of I'amon, there is a considerable quantity ofarable as well as pasture ground. The whole aremof Laconia is computed to contain 1896 Englishsquare miles. IV. HisTORr. The political history of the country forms aprominent part of Grecian history, and cannot benarrated in this place at sufficient length to be ofvalue to the student. But as the boundaries ofLaconia differed considerably at various periods,it is necessary to mention briefly those facts in thehistory of the country which produced thioe change*. It will be seen from the preceding description ofthe physical features of Laconia, that the plainof Sparta forms the very kernel and heart of thecountry. Accordingly, it was at all times the seatof the ruling class; and from it the whole countryreceived its appellation. This place is said to havebeen originally inhabited by the Lelrgc*, the meatancient inhabitants of the country. According totradition, Lelex, the first king, was succeeded by hasson My lea, and the latter by his son Eurotaa, whocollected into a channel the waters which werespread over the plain, and gave his own name to thoriver whirh he had thus formed. He died w itboutmale offspring, and was succeeded by Lacetlaemfsn.the son of Zeus and TaVgeta, who married Sparta,