OCR Output NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. and those of Apollo, ac Claros and Miletus (Lucian.torn. ii. p. 236. Edit. Reitz). The last of these,whose singular history would furnish a very curiousepisode, was consulted by Diocletian before hepublished his edicts of persecution (Lactantius, deM. P. c. u.). [137] Besides the ancient stories of Pythagarasand Aristeas; the cures performed at the shrine ofÆsculapius, and the sables related of ApolloniusofTyana, were frequently opposed to the miraclesof Christ; though I agree with Dr. Lardner (feeTestimonies, vol. iii. p. 252. 352.), tnat whenPhilostratus composed the life of Apollonius, hehad no such intention. [138] It is seriously to be lamented, that theChristian fathers, by acknowledging the super­natural, or, as they deem it, the infernal part ofPaganism, destroy with their own hands the greatadvantage which we might otherwise derive fromthe liberal concessions of our adversaries. [139] Julian (p. 301. Edit. Spanheim) expressesa pious joy, that the- providence of the gods hadextinguished the impious sects, and for the most part,destroyed the books of the Pyrrhonians and Epi­cureans, which had been very numerous, since Epi­curus himself composed no less than 300 volumes.See Diogenes Laertius, I. x. c. 26. [140] Cumquc alios audiam mussitare indignan-ter, et dicere opportere statui per Senatum, abole-antur ut hæc scripta, quibus Christiana Religiocomprobetur, et vetustatis opprimatur auflorius.Arnobius adversus Gcntes, 1. iii. p. 103, 104. Headds very properly, Erroris convincite Ciceronem . .nam intercipere scripta, et publicatam velle sub-mergere lectionem,_ non est Deum defendere fedveritatis testisicationem timerc. [141] Lactantius (Divin. Institut. 1. v. c. 2, 3.)gives a very clear and spirited account of two ofthese philosophic adversaries of the faith. Thelarge treatise of Porphyry against the Christians-consisted of thirty books, and wa composcu inSicily about the year 270. [142] See Socrates Hist. Ecc.'esiast. 1. i. c. 9,and Codex Theodosian. 1. i. tit. i. 1. 3, [143] Euscbius, 1. viii. c. 4, c. 17. He limitsthe number of military martyrs,, by a remarkable expression (orcuiw; rtvrm »; vu *xi hvrtftt) of whichneither his Latin nor French translator have renderedthe energy. Notwithstanding the authority ofEusebius, and the silence of Lactantius, Ambrose,.Sulpicias, Orosius, &c. it has been long believed,that the Thebasan legion, consisting of 6000 Chri­stians, suffered martyrdom, by the order of Max-imian, in the Valley of the Penine Alps. The story-was first published about the middle of the vthcentury, by Eucherius, bishop of Lyons, who re­ceived it from certain persons, who received it fromIsaac Bishop of Geneva, who is said to have receivedit from Theodore bishop of Octodurum. The-Abbey of St. Maurice still subsists, a rich monu­ment of the credulity of Sigifmond, king of Bur­gundy. See an excellent Dissertation in thexxxvith volume of the Bibliotheque Raifonnee,.p. 427—454. [144] Seethe Acta Sincera, p. 299. The ac­counts of his martyrdom and of that of Marcellus-bear every mark of truth and authenticity. [143] Acta Sincera, p. 30?. [146] De M. P. c. 11. Lactantius (or whoeverwas the author of this little treatise) was, at thattime, an inhabitant of Nicomedia; but it seemsdifficult to conceive how he could acquire so ac­curate a knowledge of what passed in the imperial-cabinet. [147] The only circumstance which we can dis.cover, is the devotion and jealousy of the mother,os Galerius. She is described by Lactantius, asDeorum montium cultrix; mulier admodum fup-erititiosa. She had a great influence over her son,and was offended by the disregard of some of herChristian servants. [14&] The worstn'p and festival of the GodTerminus are elegantly illustrated by M. de Boze.Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. i. p. 50.. [149] In oar only MS. of Lactantius, we readprofeBtts 5 but reason, and the authority of all the.critics, allow us, instead of that word, which destroys,the sense of the passage, to substitute praft3us. [150] Lactantius de M. P. c. 12. gives a very,lively picture of the destruction of the church. [151] Mosheimi