OCR Output 6 JAXARTES. JAXARTES. JAXABTES, IAXARTES (6 'Ia{a>rT,0> theriver of Ontnl Asia which now hears tlie nam*of Syr-Oaria, or Yellow liiver (Daria u the GenericTartar name fur all rirfrs, and iyr=" yellow "),and which, watering the barren steppes of theKirghiz-Cottackt, was known to the civilised worldin the most remote aces. The exploits of Cyrus and Alexander the Greathare inscribed its name in history many centuriesbefore oar sera. If we are to believe the traditionarystatements about Cyrus, the left bonk of this- riverformed the N. limit of the vast dominion of thatconqueror, who built a town, deriving its name fromthe founder [Ctkeschata], upon its banks; and itwas upon the right bank that he lost his life inbattle with Tuniyris, Queen of the Massagetae.Herodotus (i. 201—216), who is the authority furthis statement, was aware of the existence of theSyr-Daria ; and although the name Jaxartes, whichwas a denomination adopted by the Greeks and fol­lowed by the Komans, does not appear in his his­tory, yet the A raxes of Herodotus can be no otherthan the actual Syr, because there is no other greatriver in the country of the Massagetae. Much hasbeen written upon the mysterious river called Araxesby Herodotus; M. De Guitrnes, Fosse, and Gatterer,suppose that it is the same as the Oxus or Amou-Ihiria ; M. De la Nauze sees in it the Araxes ofArmenia; while Bayer, St, Croix, and Larcher, con­ceive that under this name the Volga is to be under­stood. The true solution of the enigma seems to bethat which has been suggested by DAnville, that theAraxes is an appellative common to the Atrwm, theArmenian Artu, the Volga, and the Syr. (Cotnp.Aiiaxks, p. 188; Mem. de I'Acad, drt Iiucr.ro].xxxvi. j.p. 69 — 85; Heeren, Altai. Sationt, vol. ii.p. If, trans.) From this it may be concluded, thatHerodotus liad some vague anmaintance with theSyr, though he did not know it by name, but con­founded it with the Araxes; nor was Aristotle moresuccessful, as the Syr, the Volga, and the Don,have been recognised in the description of theAraxes given in his Mrteorologics (i. 13. § 15),which, it must be recollected, was written beforeAlexander's expedition to India. (Comp. IdeJer, Ut-teorolngia Vet. Grnecor. ei Rom. ad L c, Berol,1832; St. Croix, A>amen Critique del Hut. a*Alex.p. 703.) A century after Herodotus, the physical geo­graphy of this river-basin became well known tothe Greeks, from the expedition of Alexander toBactria and Sogdiana. In n. c. 329, Alexanderreached the Jaxartes, and, after destroying the seventowns or fortresses upon that river the foundstion ofwhich was ascribed to Cyrus, founded a city, bearinghis own name, upon its banks, AlexamikeiaUltima (Kknjend). (Q. Curt, vii. 6; Arrian, A nab.ir. I. % 3.) After the Macedonian conquest, the Syr is foundin all the ancient geographers under the form Jax­artes; while the country to the N. of it bore thegeneral name of Scylhia, the tracts between the Syrand Amom were called Transoxiana. The Jaxartesis not properly ■ Gro-k wool, it was borrowed bythe Greeks from the Barbarians, by whom, as Ar­rian (Anab. ail. 30. § 13) asserts, it was railedOrxantes ('Oa^simii). Various etymologies of thisname have been given (St. Croix, Kxamen Critii/itedrt HUt. J A lex. § 6), but they are too uncertain'o be relied on: but whatever be the derivation ofi word, certain it is that the Syr appears in all | ancient writers under the name Jaxartes. Some,indeed, confounded the Jaxartes and the TanaTs, andthat purposely, as will be seen hereafter. A fewhave confounded it with the Oxus; while all, withoutexception, were of opinion that both the Jaxartesand the Oxus discharged their waters into the Cas-| pian, and not into the Sea of Aral. It seems, attint sight, curious, to those who know, the true pi»i-tion of these rivers, that the Greeks, in describingi their course, and determining the distance of theirrespective "embouchures," should hsve taken theSea of Aral for the Caspian, and that their mistakeshould have been repeated up to very recent times.Von Humboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. ii. pp. 162—297) — to whose extensive inquiry we owe an inva­luable digest of the views entertained respecting thegeography of the Caspian and Oxus by classical,Arabian, and European writers and travellers, alongwith the latest investigations of Russian scientificand military men — arrives at these conclusions re­specting the ancient junction of the Aral, Oxus, andCaspian: 1st. That, at a period before the historical era,hut nearly approaching to those revolutions whichpreceded it, tlie great depression of Central Asia —the concavity of 7«rnn — may have been one largeinterior sea, connected on the one hand with tlieKuxine, on the other hand, by channels more or lessbroad, with the Icy Sea, and the Balluuk and itsadjoining lakes. 2nd. That, probably in the time of Herodotus,and even so late as the Macedonian invasion, theAral was merely a bay or gulf of the Caspian, con-netted with it by a lateral prolongation, into whichthe Oxus flowed. 3rd. That, by the preponderance of evaporationover the supply of water by the rivers, or by dilu­vial deposits, or by Plutonic convulsions, the Araland Caspian were separated, and a bifurcation ofthe Oxus developed,— one portion of its waters con­tinuing its course to the Caspian, the other termi­nating in the Aral. 4th. That the continued preponderance of evapo­ration has caused the channel communicating withthe Caspian to dry up. At present it must be allowed that, in theaWnceof more data, the existence of this great Aralo-Cas-pian basin within the "historic period," must be amoot point; though the geological appesrances proveby the equable distribution of the same peculiar or­ganic remains, that the tract between the Aral andthe Caspian was once the bed of an united and con­tinuous sea, and that the Caspian of the presentday is the small residue of the once mighty Aralo-Caspian Sea. Strabo (xi. pp. 507—517) was acquainted withthe true position of this river, and lias ex|«*«l theerrors committed by the historians of Alexander(p. 508), who confounded the mountains of the 1'a-ropamisus —or raropanisus, as all the good MSS. ofl'tolcmy read (Atie Centrale, vol. i. pp. 114—118)— with the Caucasus, and the Jaxartes with theTanaVs. All this was itiiagined with a view of exaltingthe glory of Alexander, so that the great conquerormight be supposed, after subjugating Asia, to havearrived at the Ikm and the Caucasus, the *-ene ofthe legend where Hercules unbound the chains ofthe fire-bringing Titan. The Jaxartes, according to Strabo (p. 510), took Itsrise in the mountains of India, and he determines itas the [rutilier between Sogdiana and the nomad Scy-