OCR Output POECILASIUM. POLA. 643 peat /WiJorjr (written in the Tamil language /Vla-Wfrji). Ptolemy mentions another place of■ *n» mat in the northern port of the bland oflyniau (rii. «. § 10). [V.] POECILASrU SI, POECtLASSUS (noiKiAnW,fninll5.§3; ntxiXturoot.Stadium. HogniMar.iJ/V.rJ. Hoffmann), a town on the S. coast of Crete,fW by Ptolemy E. of Tarrba, between this platecMU'jmm.mtTvllerrnaea; but in the Stadiasrnus ■ "f Tirrijj, between this place and Syia, 60 stadia'•« ibr former ami 50 from the latter. It is prc-Uk'itprented bjtbe rains near Trypete,situatedWin the places mentioned iu the Stadiasrnus.Twin. Crete, vol ii. p. 264.) PuECILE (IloutiXT)), a rock on the coast of Ci-irn. Mr tie mouth of the Calycadnus, and on theM <i Capo Sarpedon, across which a flight of stepsIt in the r.., led from Cape Zephyrium to Seleuceia.5e»k. bt. p. 670; Sladiasm. Mar. M. § 161.) ■ Intaaa of 40 stadia from the Calycadnus willtn I about Pmhendi. Instead of any steps ink wk, Beaufort here found extensive ruins of a■Wi town, with temples, arcades, aqueducts, and bout round a small level, which had some•moe* of having once been a harbour with ar"" "peeing to the sea. An inscription copiedP»«t.irt from a tablet over the eastern gate of"w accounts for the omission of any notice of• ton by Strata and others; for the inscriptionto it to bare been entirely built by Fluranius,toi «f the eparchia of I sauna, in the reigns of•*»«. Valens, and Gratian. [L. S.] PUIWLUM (n»«i'AoF, l'aos. i. 37. § 8). aasm ia Attica, on tlie Sacred Way. [See Vol.► tts.a.] MMCCU [Pkucetti.]IWUICI'M (riotJuroV), a place mentioned onlyrV**i» (ii. U. § 3) as situated in the south-IrfSorirum; it is commonly identified with the(■-! l-lrltbrrg. on the river I'oijL [L. S.]WrXSSA [CB..S.] W3USB7TUS (noi^a»B»<ij), a town in the ■ ^ Cjaetm, and on the south-west of lake•2*. which is mentioned only by very lateb». It belonged to the territory of Cyzicus,•J (alhW. and possessed a celebrated templei»*>i«a (Steph. B. «. r. iTouiaWoi'; Nicet.■> Chm. p. 296; Concil. Constant. III. p.: C*oJ. Xicaen. IL p. 572; Hierocl. p. 662,^•t ■ called Poemanentus.) Its inhabitants are'IViianrni (T\ot^ana*ui, Plin. v. 32). Ha-■'.'•'•iewreiej, ii. p. 108. &c.) identities it with Mtmiyas, near 11 : lake bearing the same L p. s.] P>L fCAI.TTf.%CO.] ■M'XAE AI.PES. [Auks, p. 108, a.] Via [Pbtovio.]■"V [Inotznt.] "U (OiXa: Eth. XIo\Jltvs: Polo), one ofP^'l*' towns of Istria, situated near the S.*J <i that peninsula, on a landlocked buy,m sa oortlrat port, whirh was called theiNauraa. (MeLii. 3. § 13.) According toa~_t wUm! by several ancient authors, itsw» ascribed to a band of Colchians, who Pa anker ia punoit of Medea, and afterwards■ U» eeuntry. (Strab. i. p. 46, v. p. 216; ?'»■ a 23; Mel. I c; Tzetz. ad Lyeopkr.■ f iaposaible to explain the origin ofnentioncd by Callimachusjiiav be received as proving »uirh ij already mentioned by Callimachus*»kle.); but it I that the city was considered as an ancient one, andcertainly existed before the Roman conquest of Istriain is. c. 177, though its name is not mentioned onthat occasion. It was undoubtedly the advantagesof its excellent port that attracted the attention ofthe Romans, and led Augustus to establish a colonythere, to which he gave the name of Pietas Julia.(Mel. L c.; Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) Several of the stillexisting remains prove that he at the same timeadorned it with public edifices; and there is nodoubt that under the Roman Empire it tiecaine aconsiderable and flourishing town, and, next toTergeste (7>m'*/c), the most important city of Istria.(Strab. /. c.; Ptol. iii. 1. §27; Gruter, /titer.p. 263. 7, p. 360. 1, p. 432. 8.) It is mentioned inhistory as the place where Crispus, the eldest sonof Constantino the Great, was put to death by orderof his father; and again, in A. I>. 354, the CaesarGallus underwent the same fate there by order ofConstantius. (Ammian. Marc xiv. 11.) After thefall of the Roman Empire in the West it continuedto be a place of importance, and in A. D. 544 it wasthere that Belisarius assembled the fleet and armywith which he was preparing to cross over to Ra­venna, (Procop. B. C. iii. 10.) It probably partookof the prosperity which was enjoyed by all Istriaduring the period that Ravenna became the seat ofempire, and which was continued throughout theperiod of the Kxarchatc; we learn from the Itinerariesthat it was connected by a road along the coast withTergeste, from which it was 77 miles distant, whilethe direct communication by sea with Indent (/Jara)seems to have been in frequent nse, though thepassage was 450 stadia, or 56 Roman miles, (//in.Ant. pp. 271,496.) Pola is remarkable for the importance and pre­servation of its ancient remains. Of these by farthe most important is the amphitheatre, one of themost interesting structures of the kind still extant,and remarkable especially for the circumstance thatthe external circumference, usually the part whichhas suffered the most, is in this case almost entirelyperfect. It is built on the slope of a hill, so that onthe E. side it has only one row of arcades, while onthe opposite side, facing the bay, it has a double tier,with an additional story above. It is 436 Engfohfeet in length by 346 in breadth, so that it exceeds insize the amphitheatre of Nismet, though considerablysmaller than that at Verena. But its position andthe preservation of its more architectural portionsrender it far more striking in aspect than either ofthem. Considerable remains of a theatre were alsopreserved down to the 17th century, but weredestroyed in 1636, in order to make use of the ma­terials in the construction of the citadel. Therestill remain two temples; one of which was dedicatedto Home and Augustus, and though of small size, isof very elegant design and execution, correspondingto the Augustan ape, at which period it was un­doubtedly erected. It has thence become a favouritemodel for study with Italian architects from thetime of l'alladio downwards. The other, which wasconsecrated to Diana, is in less complete preservation,and has been converted into a modern habitation.Besides these, the Porta Aurea, a kind of triumphalarch, but erected by a private individual of thename of Sergius, now forms the S. gate of the city.Another gate, and several portions of the ancientwalls arc also preserved. The whole of these monu­ments are built of the hard white limestone of thecountry, closely approaching to marble, which adds T T 2