OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL not insensible, (replied the king of the Vandals) how kind and rational is your ad­vice. But I cannot persuade myself, to become the slave of an unjust enemy, whohas deserved my implacable hatred. Him I had never injured either by word ordeed; yet he has sent against me, I know not from whence, a certain Belisarius,who has cast me headlong from the throne into this abyss of misery. Justinian isa man; he is a prince; does he not dread for himself a similar reverse of fortune?I can write no more; my grief oppresses me. Send me, I beseech you, my dearPharas, send me a lyre, (1) a sponge, and a loaf of bread." From the Vandal mes­senger, Pharas was informed of the motives of this singular request. It was longsince the king of Africa had tasted bread; a defluxion had fallen on his eyes, theeffect of fatigue or incessant weeping; and he wished to solace the melancholyhours, by singing to the lyre the sad story of his own misfortunes. The humanityof Pharas was moved; he sent the three extraordinary gifts; but even his humani­ty prompted him to redouble the vigilance of his guard that he might sooner com­pel his prisoner to embrace a resolution advantageous to the Romans, but salutaryto himself. The obstinacy of Gelimer at length yielded to reason and necessity;the solemn assurances of safety and honourable treatment were ratified in the em­peror's name, by the ambassador of Belisarius; and the king of the Vandals de­scended from the mountain. The first public interview was in one of the suburbsof Carthage, and when the royal captive accosted his conqueror, he burst into a fitof laughter. The crowd might naturally believe, that extreme grief had deprivedGelimer of his senses; but in this mournful state, unseasonable mirth insinuated tomore intelligent observers, that the vain and transitory scenes of human greatnessare unworthy of a serious thought.(2) Their contempt was soon justified by a new example of a vulgar truth; thatflattery adheres to power, and envy to superior merit. The chiefs of the Romanarmy presumed to think themselves the rivals of a hero. Their private despatchesmaliciously affirmed, that the conqueror of Africa, strong in his-reputation andthe public love, conspired to seat himself on the throne of the Vandals. Justinianlistened with too patient an ear; and his silence was the result of jealousy ratherthan of confidence. An honourable alternative, of remaining in the province orof returning to the capital, was indeed submitted to the discretion of Belisarius; buthe wisely concluded, from intercepted letters, and the knowledge of his sovereign'stemper, that he must either resign his head, erect his standard, or confound hisenemies by his presence and submission. Innocence and courage decided hischoice: his guards, captives, and treasures, were diligently embarked; and soprosperous was the navigation, that his arrival at Constantinople preceded anycertain account of his departure from the port of Carthage. Such unsuspectingloyalty removed the apprehensions of Justinian: envy was silenced and inflamedby the public gratitude; and a third Africanus obtained the honours of a triumph,a ceremony which the city of Constantinople had never seen, and which ancientRome, since the reign of Tiberius, had reserved for the ausfiiciom arms of theCxsars.(3) From the palace of Belisarius, the procession was conducted throughthe principal streets of the hippodrome; and this memorable day seemed toavenge the injuries of Genseric, and to expiate the shame of the Romans. Thewealth of nations was displayed, the trophies of martial or effeminate luxury; richarmour, golden thrones, and the chariots of state which had been used by the Van­dal queen; the massy furniture of the royal banquet, the splendour of preciousstones, the elegant forms of statues and vases, the more substantial treasure ofgold, and the holy vessels of the Jewish temple, which, after their long peregri­nation, were respectfully deposited in the Christian church of Jerusalem. A longtrain of the noblest Vandals reluctantly exposed their lofty stature and manlyCountenance. Gelimer slowly advanced: he was Clad in a purple robe, and stillmaintained the majesty of a king. Not a tear escaped from his eyes, not a sighwas heard; but his pride or piety derived some secret consolation from the words (1) By Procopins it is styled a lyre; perhaps harp would have been mote national. The instruments of mu­sic are those distinguished by Venantius Fortunatus:— Romauusque lyra tibi plaudit, Barbarus harpa* (2) Herodotus elegantly describes the strange effects of grief in another roya! captive, Psammetichui ofEgypt, who wept at the lesser, and was silent at the greatest of his calamities, (lib. iii. c. 14.) In the interview,of Paulus jEmilius and Perses, Belisarius might study his part: but it is probable that he never read either Livyor Plutarch; and it is certain that his generosity did not need a tutor. (3) After the title of imperatar had lost the old military sense, and the Roman auspices were abolished byChristianity (see La Bleterie, Mem. de 1'Academic, torn, xii, p. 302—332,) a triumph might be given with lessinconsistency to a .private general. m