OCR Output SOLORIUS MONSL SONTIA. 1021 M Tost distinct indication of its locality Is afforded11 pafrafe of Festus (a, v. Pomonal, p. 250),ert he tells us ** i'omonal est in agro Sulonio,tOiueDsi, ad duodecimum lapidem, diverticula ai.m octavo." It is thence evident that thec« Solonios" extended westward us fur as thej'Mitaai-, and probably tiie whole tract border-l >n the territories of Oslia, Laurentuin, andrie, was known by this name. It may wellniurt hare extended to the neighbourhood ofsanam »W>. Cicero tells us that it abounded inun (Ik Dig. ii. 31.) It appears from one ofi Irtferi that lie had a villa there, as well as Ma-i, Ui which he talks uf retiring in order to avoidi:«tioQ at Rome (ad Ait. ii. 3).TU origin of the name is unknown; it tray pro-hl; osve been derived from some extinct town of1 usott; but no trace of such ii found. Dionytdus,rro, speaks of an Ktnucan city of Solonium,m *hence the Lucuino caine to the assistance ofaulas (Dionys. iL 37); but the name is in all■ability corrupt, and, at all events, cannot af-i uy explanation of the Latin district of ther*. [E. H.B.J »U/RIUS MOXS, an offi»hoot of Mum Argen­ts*, running to tlie S\V\, on the borders of His-j Tarrmcooeosis and Kaetica, and connectingsot Ortuspeda with Mount Ilipula. (Plin. hi. 1.LJ tl t* probably the same mountain mentionedtitnbo (hi. p. 156) as rich in gold and otherm, asd the present Sierra Xrvatbt. [T. H. L>.]IULUS or &OLUNTLM (2oA<J«it, Thuc; 2o- I I>iad.: Kth. Xakovrrlrtn, I>iod., but coins havej-t^jj; Suluntinus: SoUinto), a city of Sirily, i -i an the N. coast of the island, about 12f K ot Panormus, and immediately to the E. ofWtd prurrvotory called Capo Zaffaraiuu It II Phoenician colony, and from its proximity toarm us was one of the few which that people re­ad when they pave way before the advance ofut*rJt c« lui,:es in Sicily, and withdrew to the'. urnrr of the island. (Time. ri. 2.) It after-si f<*md together »ith I'auonmis and Motyaintobands uf the Carthaginians, or at least became a•sjrncy uf that people. It continued steadfastfce ' srlhaginiaD alliance evrn in b. c 397, whenfraudable armanent of Dionysius shook theity uf most <>{ their allies (Diod. xiv. 48); itstury was in consequence ravaged by Dionv- in-. ■ tWit etfect. At a later period of the war.-. 3*J6) it was betrayed into the hands of that* (lb, 76), but probably soon fell again into • r of the Carthaginians. It was certainly ■ the cities that usually formed part of their•-ujCia in the island; and in h. c. 307 it wasa up by them to the soldiers and mercerories ofnodes, who hail made peace with the Cart ha*as when abamloned by their leader in Africa.i. ix. 69.) During the First Punic War weft <jil subject to Carthage, and it was not till the fall of 1'anorniM that Soluntum a!>oai its gates to the Roman*. (Id. xxiit. p. 505.)•uiuned to subsist under the Roman dominiouipsJ town, but apparently one of no greatas its name ii only slightly and oeca-J.y mcwti»neU by Cicero ( Yrrr. ii. 42, iii. 43.) ii is still noticed both by Pliny and Ptolemyl ui. 8. a. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 3, where the namerrupUy written 'OAovA/f), as well as at a later■j by the Itineraries, which place it 12 miles Panorama and 12 from Thermae (Termini). (Itin. Ant. p. 91; Tab. Pent.) It is probable thatits complete destruction dates from the time of theSaracens. At the present day the site of the ancient city iswholly desolate and uninhabited. It stood on a loftyhill, now called the Monte Catalfano, at the foot ofwhich is a small cove or port, with a fort, still calledthe Castello di Solanto, and a station for the tunnyfishery. The traces of two ancient roads, pavedwith large blocks of stone, which led up to the city,may still be followed, and the whole summit of thehill is covered with fragments of ancient walls andfoundation uf buddings. Among these may Mtraced the remains of two temples, of which somecapitals, portions of friezes, &c. have been discovered;but it is impossible to trace the plan and design ofthese or a iy other edifices. They are probably allof them of the period of the Roman dominion.Several cisterns for water also remain, as well ussepulchres; ami some fragments of sculpture of con­siderable merit have been discovered on the site.(Faze 11, de Heb. Sic. Tiii. p. 352; Amico, Lex, Top.vol. ii. pp. 192—195; Hoare's Clan. Tow, vol. ii.p. 234; Serra di Falco, Ant. delta Sicilia, vol. v. pn.60—67.) [E. H. B.] COIN OF SOLUS. SOLYOKIA, SOLYGEIUS. [Corinth to, pp.684. h, G85, a.] SOLYMA (ri 2o>vua), a high mountain nearPhaselis in I.ycin. (Strah. xiv. p. 666.) As themountain is not mentioned by any other writer, it isprobably only another name for the Chimaera Mors,the Olympus, or the mountains of the Solymi,mentioned by Homer. (Od. v. 283.) In the Sta-diasmus it is simply called the opos urya: it extendsabout 70 miles northward from Phaselis, and itshighest point, now called Taghtaht, rises immediatelyabove the ruins of Phaselis, which exactly corre­sponds with the statement of Strsbo. (I^ake, AsiaMinor, p. 189.) [L.S.] SOLYMI. [Ltoa.] SOMENA. [Simkna.] SONAUTES, according to Pliny (vi. 1), a riverin Pontus; while, according to Apollonius Khodius(ii. 747), the Acheron in Bithynia was ancientlycalled Soonautes (Soao/aufTji). [L. S.] SONEIUM, a place in Moesia Snperior, on thebonlers of Thrace, at tl»e pass of Mount Scomiuy,called Succi. (/tin. Hieros. p. 567.) Identifiedwith Bagna. [T. H. D.] SON 1ST A, a town in Upper Pannonia, on theroad from Poetovium to Sisrin. (Geog. Rav. iv. 19;Tab. Pent.; It. Htero*. p. 561, where it is writtenSunista.) Its exact site is unknown. [L. 8.] SO'NTIA (Kth. SontinM: Sansa), a town ofLucania, known only from Pliny, who enumeratesthe Sontini among the municipal towns of that pio-vince (Plin. iii. II. s. 15). It is probable that it isthe same pWce now called Sanza, situated in themountains about 12 miles N. of the Gulf of Poli- IK. H B ]