OCR Output 480 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. a safer conference with a more honourable foe, who, be­fore Heraclius descended from his galley, saluted with re-He solicits verence and pity the majesty of the purple. The friendlyoffer of Sain the Persian general, to conduct an embassytp the presence of the great king, was accepted with thewarmest gratitude, and the prayer for pardon and peacewas humbly presented by the praetorian prefect, the pre­fect of the city, and one of the first ecclesiastics of thepatriarchal church/ But the lieutenant of Chosroes hadfatally mistaken the intentions of his master. "It wasnot an embassy (said the tyrant of Asia), it was the per­son of Heraclius, bound in chains, that he should havebrought to the foot of my throne. I will never give peaceto the emperor of Rome till he has abjured his crucifiedGod, and embraced the worship of the sun." Sain wasflayed alive, according to the inhuman 'practice of hiscountry; and the separate and rigorous confinement ofthe ambassadors, violated the laws of nations and the faithof an express stipulation. Yet the experience of six yearsat length persuaded the Persian monarch to renouncethe conquest of Constantinople, and to specify the an­nual tribute or ransom of the Roman empire: a thou­sand talents of gold, a thousand talents of silver, a thou­sand silk robes, a thousand horses, and a thousand vir­gins. Heraclius subscribed these ignominious terms, butthe time and space which he obtained to collect suchtreasures from the poverty of the east, was industriouslyemployed in the preparations of a bold and desperateattack. Hi» pre- Of the characters conspicuous in history, that of He-fo'w'ar"* raclius is one of the most extraordinary and inconsistent.a. d. 621. In £rgt an^ iast years Df a iong reign, the emperor appears to be the slave of sloth, of pleasure, or of super­stition, the careless and impotent spectator of the publiccalamities. But the languid mists of the morning and c Some original pieces, such as the speech or letter of the Roman amhassadors,(p. 386—388.) likewise constitute the merit of the Paschal, Chronicle, which wai>composed, perhaps at Alexandria, under the reign of Heracliut. - <