OCR Output CHAP. 28. ROMAN HISTORY. 415 CHAP. XXVIII. Further contests, and the levies opposed. JL HE new consuls, were A. Virginius and T. Veturius.The commons, in the mean time, uncertain how thesenew magistrates would act, began to hold nocturnal con­ventions, partly on the Esquiline, and partly on theAventine hiHs, for the purpose of concerting such mea­sures, as exigencies should require, to prevent their beingsurprised into hasty resolutions in the forum, or takingmeasures inconsiderately, before they were properly di­gested. The consuls considering how dangerous the con­sequences of these cabals might turn out, made a reportof them to the senate. But the affair could not be taken regularly under con­sideration, so much tumult and clamour arose from everypart of the house, upon this representation, agamst theconsuls, who, instead of doing the duties of their office,were for ridding themselves of the odious part of it, bytransferring it to the senate. "Were there really ma­gistrates in Rome," said they, " there would be onlyone public council: but the republic now was splitinto a thousand senate-houses and assemblies, some ofwhich were held on the Esquiline, others on the Aven­tine hill. One man of spirit, such as Appius Claudius,but that is of more consideration than a consul, wouldsend all these cabals a packing in an instant."The consuls, nettled at this reprimand, asked the se­nate, in what manner they would have them to proceed,assuring them, at the same time, that they should notwant resolution to act agreeable to their pleasure. Itwas therefore determined, that they should proceed tomake the levies with all possible severity, as the peoplewere become insolent, for want of employment. Thesenate being dissolved, the consuls ascended their tribu­nal, and cited the younger citizens to enlist by name;when nobody made answer, and the people crowdinground, as if they had been summoned to an assembly,told them, " That the people would be no longer im-"posed on, and that they should not have a single sol­