OCR Output 468 ROMAN EMPIRE. Arabian fleet cast anchor, and the troops were disem­barked near the palace of Hebdomon, seven miles fromthe city. During many days, from the dawn of light tothe evening, the line of assault was extended from thegolden gate to the eastern promontory, and the foremostwarriors were impelled by the weight and effort of thesucceeding columns. But the besiegers had formed aninsufficient estimate of the strength and resources ofConstantinople. The solid and lofty walls were guardedby numbers and discipline: the spirit of the Romanswas rekindled by the last danger of their religion andempire: the fugitives from the conquered provincesmore successfully renewed the defence of Damascus andAlexandria; and the Saracens were dismayed by thestrange and prodigious effects of artificial fire. Thisfirm and effectual resistance diverted their arms to themore easy attempts of plundering the European andAsiatic coasts of the Propontis; and, after keeping thesea from the month of April to that of September, on theapproach of winter they retreated fourscore miles fromthe capital, to the isle of Cyzicus, in which they hadestablished their magazine of spoil and provisions. Sopatient was their perseverance, or so languid were theiroperations, that they repeated, in the six following sum­mers, the same attack and retreat, with a gradual abate­ment of hope and vigour, till the mischances of shipwreckand disease, of the sword and of fire, compelled them torelinquish the fruitless enterprise. They might bewailthe loss, or commemorate the martyrdom, of thirty thou­sand Moslems, who fell in the siege of Constantinople;and the solemn funeral of Abu Ayub, or Job, excitedthe curiosity of the Christians themselves. That vene­rable Arab, one of the last of the companions of Mahomet, Baron de Tott, (torn. 3. p. 39— 97.) who was sent to fortify them against the Hus­sions. From a principal actor, I should have expected more accurate details;bathe seems to write for the amusement, rather than the instruction, of his reader*Perhaps, on the approach, of the enemy, the minister of Constantino was occupied,like that of Mustapha, in finding two Canary birds, who should sing precisely thesame note.