OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 137 appear wonderful in the relation, began by snatchingthe standards out of the hands which held them ; andthen the standard-bearers themselves were dragged tothe consul, and the armed soldiers hauled from the oneline to the other; little resistance was any where made,and the business was performed, not so much withswords, as with their shields, with the bosses of which,and thrusts of their elbows, they bore down the foe.The prisoners were more numerous than the slain, andthrough the whole line the Umbrians called on eachother, with one voice, to lay down their arms. Thus asurrender was made in the midst of action, by the firstpromoters of the war; and on the next and followingdays the other states of this people also surrendered.The Ocriculans were admitted to a treaty of friendshipon giving security. 42. Fabius, after reaping laurels in a war allotted toanother, led back his army into his own province.And as, in the preceding year, the people had, in con­sideration of his services so successfully performed,re-elected him to the consulship, so now the senate,from the same motive, notwithstanding a warm oppo­sition made by Appius, prolonged his command forthe year following, [A. U. C. 446. B. C. 306] in whichAppius Claudius and Lucius Volumuius were consuls.In some annals I find that Appius, still holding theoffice of censor, declared himself a candidate for theconsulship, and that his election was stopped by a pro­test of Lucius Furius, plebeian tribune, until he re­signed the censorship. After his election to the con­sulship, the new war with the Sallentines, who hadtaken arms, being decreed to his colleague, he re­mained, at Rome, with design to increase his interestby popular intrigues, since the means of procuring ho­nor in war were placed in the hands of others. Vo-lumnius bad no reason to be dissatisfied with his pro­vince : he fought many battles with good success, andtook several cities by assault. He was liberal in hisdonations of the spoil; and this munificence, engagingin itself, he enhanced by his courteous demeanor, by