OCR Output Chop. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS; 75 to be powerful connections; and therefore that careerbegan, not as formerly in the camp, but in the ante-chambersof influential men. A new and noble body of clients nowundertook—what had formerly been done only by depend­ents and freedmen—to come and wait on their patron earlyin the morning, and to appear publicly in his train. But thepopulace also was a great lord, and desired as such to receiveattention. The rabble began to demand as its right thatthe future consul should recognize and honour the sovereignpeople in every ragged idler of the street, and that everycandidate should in his "going round" (ambitus) saluteevery individual voter by name and press his hand. Thenoble world entered readily into this degrading canvass.The true candidate cringed not only in the palace, but alsoon the street, and recommended himself to the multitude byflattering attentions, indulgences, and civilities more or lessrefined. Demagogism and the cry after reforms were sedu­lously employed to attract the notice and favour of the public;and they were all the more effective, that they attackednot things but persons. It became the custom for beardlessyouths of noble birth to introduce themselves with eclat intopublic life by playing afresh the part of Cato with theimmature passion of their boyish eloquence, and by con­stituting and proclaiming themselves state-prosecutors, ifpossible, against some man of very high standing and greatunpopularity; the Romans suffered the grave institutions ofcriminal justice and of political police to become a means ofsoliciting office. The provision or, what was still worse, thepromise of magnificent popular amusements had long beenthe, as it were legal, prerequisite to the obtaining of theconsulship (ii. 346) ; now the votes of the electors began tobe directly purchased with money, as the prohibition issuedagainst it about 595 shows. Perhaps the worst consequence 159.of the continual courting of the favour of the multitude bythe ruling aristocracy, was the incompatibility of such abegging and fawning part with the position which the govern­ment should rightfully occupy in relation to the governed.The government was thus converted from a blessing intoa curse for the people. They no longer ventured to disposeof the property and blood of the burgesses, as exigency re­quired, for the good of their country. They allowed theBurgesses to become habituated to the dangerous idea thatthey were legally exempt from the payment of direct taxes