OCR Output CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 347 'friends among the commons, and their countenance'once obtained, they would not fail to promote them.'Wherefore, it was resolved, that a law should be pro­posed, in order to put an effectual stop to intriguing, thatfor the future no person appearing as a candidate for anoffice, should affect to be distinguished by the Whitenessof his robes. At this period, a dispute so trifling wouldbe little regarded; but, however much it may appearlike a farce now, between the senators and the peoplethen, it was a very serious affair. The tribunes prevail­ed, and the law passed. As the present animosity of thepeople gave reason to suspect that they would be biassedin favour of their own party; therefore, to put it out of.their power to prefer them, the senate enacted, that thecomitia for electing consuls should be held this year. CHAP. XXVI. The Tribunes compel the Consuls to name a Dictator. ./\DVICES from the "Hernici and the Latins, that theVolsci and ./Equi were in motion, furnished an apologyfor this resolution. T. Quinctius^Cincinnatus, the son ofLucius, sirnamed also Pennus, and C. Julius Men to,were made consuls. This dreadful war was no longerdelayed: for, by means of a sacred law among them,the most effectual means of raising an army, havingmade up their quotas, each nation led a.formidable partyto the Algidus, the place agreed on for their general ren*-dczvcns. There the TEqui and Volsci fortified two sepa-^rate encampments, their generals discovering a muchgreater degree of attention in disciplining the troops andsecuring the lines, than ever'they had done on any for­mer occasion. , These accounts increased the consternation at Rome,so much the more. The senate were determined toname a dictator; because, though they had to do with a'people Who had often shewn them their backs, theyseemed at this time resolved on an extraordinary effort;and besides, the strength of the Romans was impairedY>y the loss of some of their youth, that had been cut offby the raging distemper. But, nothing gave them so'much concern as the perverseness of the consuls, their