OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 275 purloined the present intended, and sent it as if it were hisown, and not Hyrcanus' gift to them. Hyrcanus heard of thishis management, but took no care about it: nay, he rather wasvery glad of it: But the chief men of the Jews were thereforein fear, because they saw that Herod was a violent and boldman, and very desirous of acting tyrannically; so they came toHyrcanus, and now accused Antipater openly, and said to him,"How long wilt thou be quiet under such actions as are now"done? Or doest thou not see that Antipater and his sons have"already seized upon the government? And that it is only the"name of a king which is given thee? But do not thou suffer"these things to be hidden from thee; nor do thou think to"escape danger, by being so careless of thyself and of thy king-"dom, for Antipater and his sons are not now stewards of"thine affairs: do not thou deceive thyself with such a notion,"they are evidently absolute lords, for Herod, Antipater's"son, hath slain Hezekiah and those that were with him, and"hath thereby transgressed our law, which hath forbidden to"slay any man, even though he were a wicked man, unless he"had been first * condemned to suffer death by the sanhedrim;"yet hath he been so insolent as to do this, and that without"any authority from thee." 4. Upon Hyrcanus' hearing this, he complied with them.The mothers also of those that had been slain by Herod raisedthis indignation; for those women continued every day in thetemple, persuading the king and the people, that Herod mightundergo a trial before the sanhedrim for what he had done.Hyrcanus was so moved by these complaints, that he summonedHerod to come to his trial, for what was charged upon him.Accordingly he came: but his father had persuaded him to comenot like a private man, but with a guard, for the security of hisperson ; and that when he had settled the affairs of Galilee in thebest manner he could for his own advantage, he should come tohis trial, but still with a body of men sufficient for his securityon his journey, yet so that he should not come with so great aforce as might look like terrifying Hyrcanus, but still such a oneas might not expose him naked and unguarded [to his enemies.]However, Sextus Caesar, president of Syria, wrote to Hyrcanus,and desired him to clear Herod, and dismiss him at his trial, and * It is here worth our while to remark, that none could he put to death inJudea, but by the approbation of the Jewish sanhedrim, there being an excellentprovision in the law of Moses, that even in criminal causes, and particularly wherelife was concerned, an appeal should he from the lesser councils of seven in theother cities, to the supreme council of seveniy-one at Jerusalem. And this is exactlyaccording to our Saviour's words, when he says, " It could not be that a prophetshould perish out of Jerusalem." Luke xiii. 33. VOL. II- M M 23