OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 273 The shout on the side of the Romans was composed ofthe same sounds uttered by every one; consequentlyit was the stronger and more terrible: on the otherside, the sounds were dissonant, uttered in the dis­cordant languages of many different nations. Be­sides, the Roman manner of fighting was steady,being accustomed to press against the enemy withtheir own weight, and that of their arms. That of theCarthaginian was more loose, with greater agility thanstrength. Immediately, therefore, at the first onset,the Romans made the line of the enemy give way;and then, thrusting against them with their elbows andthe bosses of their shields, and stepping forward intothe place from which they had pushed them, theyrapidly gained ground. The rear ranks also, on per­ceiving the enemy's line shrink, pushed forward thosewho were before them, which greatly increased theirforce in repelling the enemy. On the other side, theAfricans and Carthaginians, so far from supporting theauxiliaries, who were giving way, drew back; fearinglest, if that first line made an obstinate resistance, theenemy in cutting through those, might close with them.The auxiliaries therefore quickly turned their backs,and facing about to their own party, some of them re­treated into the second line; others, who were not re­ceived there, made use of their arms against them,enraged at not having been supported before, and atbeing now excluded. So that there were, in a man­ner, two battles carried on together; the Carthagi­nians being obliged to engage in fight, and at the sametime, both with their mercenaries and with the Ro­mans. They did not, however, admit those cravensoldiers into their line, which was still firm and fresh;but, closing the ranks, drove them off to the wings,and to the open plains round the field of battle. Theplace where the auxiliaries had lately stood was filledup with such a number of slain, and such a quantityof arms, that it was rather more difficult to make waythrough them, than it had been through the body oftroops; the spearmen, however, who were in the van,liv. vol. v. s r