OCR Output Chap. XIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 289 for Herod, having a long while had a suspicion of the perfidious-ness of the barbarians, had taken care to have what was mostsplendid among his treasures conveyed into Idumea, as every onebelonging to him had in like manner done also. But the Par-thians proceeded to that degree of injustice, as to fill all the coun­try with war without denouncing it, and to demolish the cityMarissa, and not only to set up Antigonus for king, but to deli­ver Phasaelus and Hyrcanus bound into his hands, in order totheir being tormented by him. Antigonus himself also bit offHyrcanus'sears with his own teeth, as he fell down upon his kneesto him, that so he miyht never be able, upon any mutation ofaffairs, to take the high-priesthood again ; for the high-prieststhat officiated were to be complete and without blemish. 10. However, he failed in his purpose of abusing Phasaelus, byreason of his courage, for though he neither had the command ofhis sword nor of his hands, he prevented all abuses by dashinghis head against a stone ; so he demonstrated himself to be He­rod's own brother, and Hyrcanus a most degenerate relation, anddied with great bravery, and made the end of his life agreeable tothe actions of it. There is also another report about his end,viz. that he recovered of that stroke, and that a surgeon, whowas sent by Antigonus to heal him, filled the wound with poi­sonous ingredients, andsokilledhim; which soever of these deathshe came to the beginning of it was glorious. It is also report­ed, that before he expired he was informed by a certain poorwoman how Herod had escaped out of his hands, and that he.said thereupon, " 1 now die with comfort, since I leave behind" me one alive, that will avenge me of mine enemies." H. This was the death of Phasaelus; but the Parthians, al­though they had failed of the woman they chiefly desired, yetdid they put the government of Jerusalem into the hands of An­tigonus, and took away Hyrcanus, and bound him', and carriedhim to Parthia. CHAP. XIV. When Herod is rejected in Arabia, ie makes laste to Rome,where Antony and C<ssar join their interest to make him kingof the Jews. § 1. '^TOW Herod did the more zealously pursue his journey .LN into Arabia, as making has'te to get money of the king, while his brother was yet alive, by which money alone it was that he hoped to prevail upon the covetous temper of the barba­ rians to spare Phasaelus; for he reasoned thus with himself, that if the Arabian king was too forgetful of his father's friendship with him, and was too covetous to make him a free gift,he would VOL. III. O o however