OCR Output 3I* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. think I have frequently, upon former occasions, ob­served, O Romans, in what contempt the fathers holdyou, and how unworthy they think you of living with­in the same walls with them; but at no time so strong­ly marked as this day, in the violence and fury theydiscovered in their opposition to our laws; in which, to-what more do we pretend, but only to remind them,that we are their fellow-citizens, and though we havenot the same fortunes, we, however, have the honourto be inhabitants of the same country? By one ofthese laws, we demand the liberty of marriage withtheir order, a liberty seldom refused to neighbours;nay, even strangers. Nay more, we have given theright of citizenship, a circumstance of greater consider­ation than family alliance, to enemies,—even conquer­ed enemies. By the other, we claim nothmg new, butwhat has always been the prerogative of the people,.to bestow honours on whom they shall think proper.What occasion then for all this uproar, as if heavenand earth were falling to ruin, that they are ready totear me to pieces in their senate-house?—that theythreaten to have no regard to our persons, and to vio­late the power of the tribunes, all sacred as it is? Ifthe Roman people be allowed to vote as they please,and confer the consulship on whom they think proper,and if a Plebeian has room to hope, that by his merit,he may rise to the highest honours of the state; nftstRome of necessity sink at once? Must this empire beunavoidably overturned? And does the same idea of"impropriety attend the electiou of a consul fromamong the people, thai would attend the promotion ofa slave, or a freed man to that dignity? Have you anyconception, Romans, of the contempt in which you areheld? If they could, they would deprive you of thecommon light. You should not breathe, speak, nor ap­pear in the human form. Nay, but that a Plebeianshould become a consul.—Good gods! what a prepos­terous supposition! Though we are not admitted to in­spect the Fasti, and the annals of the pontiffs, pray, donot we know what every stranger knows, that the con­suls succeeded the kings in their office, and that iheybad neither power* nor pre-eminence,, but what thi