OCR Output 504 THEHISTORY BOOK their right on the points of their fwords, and that allt '- . things were the property of the brave. And thus,Y.R. 364. with minds inflamed on both fides, they haftily fepa-B.C. 388. rated to prepare for battle, which began withoutdelay. Here, fate now prefling the city of Rome,the ambafladors, contrary to the law of nations, tooka part in the action; a fadl: which could not be con­cealed, for three of the noblcft and braveft of theRoman youth fought in the van of the Etrurian ar­my; and the valour of thefe foreigners was emi­nently conlpicuous. Befides, Quintus Fabius rodeforward beyond the line, and Hew a general of theGauls, who was making a furious charge againft thevery ftandards of the Etrurians, running him throughthe fide with his fpear; he was known by the Gauls,while he was ftripping him of his fpoils; on whichnotice was conveyed round through the whole army,that he was one of the Roman ambafladors. Drop­ping therefore their refentment againft the Clufians,they founded a retreat, threatening to wreak theirvengeance on the Romans. Some adviled that theyfhould march inftantly to Rome. But^the opinionof the elders prevailed j that ambafladors mould firftbe fent to complain of the ill treatment which theyhad received, and to demand that the Fabii mouldbe delivered into their hands as a fatisfaction fortheir having violated the law of nations. When theambafladors of the Gauls had explained thofe mat­ters according to their commiffion, the, fenatc werehighly difpleafed at the behaviour of the Fabii, andthought the demand of the barbarians juft: but inthe cafe of nobles, of fuch exalted rank, partialfavour prevented their paffing a decree conformableto their judgment. Left, therefore, they might bechargeable with any misfortune which might per­haps be fuftained in a war with the Gauls, they re­ferred the determination, on the demands of theGauls, to the afiembly of the people: where, ibprevalent was the influence of intcreft and wealth, that