OCR Output 12G4 VEIL VEII. to such an extent that they threatened to inundatethe surrounding country. The oracle of Delphi wasconsulted on the occasion, and the response involvednot only the immediate subject of the application,but also the remoter one of the capture of Veii.According to the voice from the sacred tripod, thateity would be taken when the waters of the lakewire made to flow off without running directlyinto the sea; and the prophecy was confirmed bythe revelation of a Veientine harnspex made duringthe interval of the embassy to Delphi. All that wecan infer from this narrative is that the formation ofthe e:ni>snrv fur draining the Alban lake was con-temjv.rjiry with the siege of Veii [cf. Alban us LaCUS, Vol. L p. 29]: the rest must be referred tothe propensity of the ancients to ascribe every greatevent to the intervention of the gods; for we havealready seen that Fidenae w;is captured by meansof a cuniculus, a fact which there does not appear tobe any valid reason to doubt, and therefore tbe emis­sary of the lake cannot be regarded as having firstsuggested to the Romans the method of taking acity by mine. The honour of executing this project was re­served for the dictator M. Furius Camillas. For­tune seemed to have entirely deserted the Veien-tines: for though the pleading of the Capeuatesand Falisci on their behalf had made some impres­sion on the national assembly of the Ktruscans. theirattention was diverted in another direction by asudden irruption of the Cisalpine Gauls. Mean­while Camillas, haying defeated some bodies oftroops who endeavoured to relieve Veii, erected aline of forts around it, to cut oft* all communicationwith the surrounding country, and appointed somecorps of miners to work continually at the cunicu-lus. When the mine was completed, he ordered apicked body of his moat valiant soldiers to penetratethrough it, whilst he himself diverted tlie attentionof the inhabitants by feigned attack* in differentquarters. So skilfully had the mine been directedthat the troops who entered it emerged in the templeof Juno itself, in the highest part of the citadel.The soldiers who guarded the walls were thus takenin the rear; the gates were thrown open, and the cityBOOH filled with Romans. A dreadful massacre en­sued; the town was sacked, and those citizens whohad escaped the sword were sold into slavery. Theimage of Juno, the tutelary deity of Veii, was car­ried to Rome and pompously installed on MountAventine, where a magnificent temple was erectedto her, which lasted till the abolition of paganism.(Lit. v. 8, 12. 13, 15—22; Cic. Die. i. 44, ii. 32;Pint. Cam. 5, sq.; Flor. i. 12.) Veii was captured in the year S96 b. C Itsterritory wae divided among the citizens of Romeat the rate of seven jugera per head. A great de­bate arose between the senate and the people whetherWii should be repopulated by Roman citizens, andthus made as it were a second capital; but at thepersuasion of Camillue the project was abandoned.But though the city was deserted, its buildings werenot destroyed, as is shown by several facts. Thus,after the battle of the Allia and the taking of Romeby the Gauls, the greater part of the Romans retiredto Veii and fortified themselves there; and whenthe Gauls were ex(#1 led, the question was mootedwhether Rome, which had been reduced to ashes,should be abandoned, and Veii converted into a newcapital. But the eloquence of Camillus again de­cided the Romans for the negative, and the question was set at rest for ever. This took peace a M389. Some refractory citizens, however, vat fc-liked the trouble of rebuilding their on nana*Rome, took refuge in the empty ones of Ysiaiset at nought a seiiatusronsnjium utijauBf uaito return; bat they were at knarta csaaaatto come back by a decree of capital panaaaasagainst those who remained at Veii beyond tearprescribed. (Lir. t. 49. aqq., tL 4.) From this time Veii was completely desirssi rcwent gradually to decay. Cicero (ad fnri^speaks of the measuring of tbe Veientine terotar/ardistribution; and it was probably divided by Cvramong his soldiers in B.C. 45- (PlaL Cm.il)Propertius also describes its walls as existnf nsstime; bat the space within consisted of neka*a*tthe shepherd fed his flock, and which were lacs sawthe operation of the decernpeda (it. 10. 29V M|however, rather difficult to reconcile this eanaasry,unless there were two distributions. Cesar mmapiiears to have planted a colour at the imntaP,and thus arose the second, or Roman, Vea, innaseems to luive been considerable euooxh t* aneanan assault during the wars of the triumvir*. 1stinhabitants were again dispersed, and tbe oaanwas not re-erected till towards the end of tie metof Augustus, when it assumed the name cf naavcipiuin Augustum Veiens, as appears froen aacravtions. (Cf. Auct. de ColomX*.) When Haras,flourished in the reign of Hadrian, asserts (i. 12);**scarcely a vestige remained to mark the tpat iVeii once stood, he either writes with great canneas or is alluding to tbe ancient and Etnjseae VeiThe existenre of the municipium in the leseasatAugustus and Tiberius is attested by several Mo­ments discovered in its rains; and ialso found there show that it was in «as late as the reign of Const actios Chloraa. titmonuments alluded to consist partly of acaJatnaarelating to those emperors and their tadpartly of inscriptions. Amongst th»most important is now preserved in the iMuseum at Rome, recording the ■diuiisaiai af feaaJulius Gelotes, a freed man of Ang-a&tau, Is antoffice of an Augustalis, by the ceniocrriri W VaiIt is dated in the consulship of GaetuEcaft autCalvisius Sabinus, A.U.C 779=a. C 26. woe13th year of the reign of Tiberias. It iby Kabretti (Inter, p. 170), but lthe original by Xibby in bis Dmtonml di Hamm («■»iii. p. 409) The accents are worthy of acta. Aassar.the centnmTirs whose names are subscribed H ta»decree are thtue of two of tbe Tarqajtiaa naan>.namely, M. Tarqaitius Sat urn inn* and T. Tsa-qnitius Rufus. This family, whkh piudarea a ©aVbrated writer on Etruscan divination ( Macron, jet7). seems to have belonged to Yen and fc» hawenjoyed considerable importance then, aa tw» eaWinscriptions relating to it hare favea eaosani.One of these records the restoration af a atafiarerected in honour of M. TanjuiUos Saf**aaaaa atthe -J2nd Legion; tbe other i» a tablet of TaaaaauaI'risca dedicated to ber husband M. Saes.w aaa>cellus. (Nibby, lb. p. 410, so.) Thm aaaaa> *I'riscus is the meet celebrated of the Gmm Tar-quitia. One of these was the accuser af SuauaaaTaurus in the reign of Claudia*, icondemned under the lav of Ireign of Nero. (Tac Am*. aiL 5^. xj* 44;There are various coins of tbe Tar^anua. (Sanaa*I). N. V. p. 322.) After tbe asm of Caaafasamua