OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 33 new: nor did he blame men for this manner of think­ing; provided only that the merits of the case, and notthe mere name, were made the grounds of this doubleaversion.' He then enumerated his services to theCarthaginian generals; and, on the other hand, theiravarice, tyranny, and ill-treatment of every kind heapedon him and his countrymen. 'For these reasons,' hesaid, ' his body only had, hitherto, been on their side;his mind had long been on that side where, he be­lieved, that respect was paid to laws divine and human.To the gods themselves people have recourse with sup­plications for redress, when they can no longer endurethe violence and injustice of men. He intreated Sci-pio not to consider their conduct as deserving eitherpunishment or reward, but to form his judgment on atrial of them from that day forward, and by that stan­dard to estimate the recompense which they mighthereafter be thought to deserve.' The Roman an­swered that he would comply with their desire in everyparticular; and would not consider them in the lightof deserters, because they had not thought themselvesbound to adhere to such an alliance, when the otherparty scrupled not to violate every obligation divineand human. Then their wives and children, beingbrought into the assembly, were restored to them, andreceived with tears of joy. That day they were enter­tained in lodgings prepared for them ; and, on the next,the terms of association were ratified, and they weredismissed to bring up their forces; afterwards theyencamped in conjunction with the Romans, until theyconducted them to the spot where the enemy lay. 18. The nearest army of the Carthaginians was thatcommanded by Hasdrubal, which lay near the city ofBaecula. In the front of this camp he had posted ad­vanced guards of cavalry. On these the Roman lightinfantry, the front rank, and those who composed thevanguard, instantly, as they arrived, and without wait­ing to choose ground for a camp, made an attack, andwith such apparent contempt, as plainly demonstratedwhat degree of spirit each party possessed. The ca- LIV. VOL. V. C