OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 41 the Roman pontiffs, of equal valour, though of unequalstrength, may be found at the two extremities of thetheological scale. The acephali, without a king or abishop, were separated above three hundred years fromthe patriarchs of Alexandria, who had accepted thecommunion of Constantinople, without exacting a for­mal condemnation of the synod of Chalcedon. Foraccepting the communion of Alexandria, without aformal approbation of the same synod, the patriarchsof Constantinople were anathematized by the popes.Their inflexible despotism involved the most orthodoxof the Greek churches in this spiritual contagion, de­nied or doubted the validity of their sacraments,' andfomented, thirty-five years, the schism of the east andwest, till they finally abolished the memory of fourByzantine pontiffs, who had dared to oppose the su­premacy of St. Peter/ Before that period, the preca­rious truce of Constantinople and Egypt had been vio­lated by the zeal of the rival prelates. Macedonius,who was suspected of the Nestorian heresy, asserted,in disgrace and exile, the synod of Chalcedon, whilethe successor of Cyril would have purchased its over­throw with a bribe of two thousand pounds of gold.The TrU- In the fever of the times, the sense, or ratherthe sound of a syllable, was sufficient to disturbthe peace of an empire. TheTaiSAGioNg(thrice to the bishoprics of Athribis and Talba, (perhaps Tava: see d'Anville, p. 82.)and supplied the sacraments, which had failed for want of an episcopal ordination. 'De his quos baptizavit, quos ordinavit Acacius, majorum traditione confectamet MT.an, priecipue religiose solicitudini congruam prabemus sine difficultate me-dicinarn. (Galasius, in epist. 1. ad Euphemium, Condi, torn. .'• 286.) The offerof a medicine proves the disease, and numbers must have perished before the ar-•''. il of the Roman physician. Tillemont himself (Mern. Eccles. torn. 16. p. Sit,642, Sec.) is shocked at the proud uncharitable temper of the popes; they arc nowglad, says he, to invoke St. Flavian of Antioch, St. Elias of Jerusalem, &c. towhom they refused communion whilst upon earth. But cardinal Baronius it firmand hard as the rock of St. Peter. •'Their names were erased from the diptych of the church: ex venerabili dip-tycho, in quo pia memoriie transitum ad ccdum habentium episcoporum vocabulacondnentur. (Concil. torn. i. p. 1846.) This ecclesiastical record was thereforeequivalent to the book of life. t Petavios (Dogmat. Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 5. c. I—4. p. 217—3«5.) and TUle-mont (Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 713, &c. 799.) represent the history and doctrineof the Trisagion. In the twelve centuries between Isaiah and St. Proclus'a boy,