OCR Output AN. 107.] 483 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. reject them; and say, that we are to esteemthose observances to be obligatory which arein the written word; but are not to observewhat are derived from the tradition of ourforefathers. And concerning these things itis that great disputes and differences havearisen among them. The Sadducees are ableto persuade none but the rich, and have notthe populace obsequious to them: but thePharisees have the multitude on their side.But about these two sects, and that of theEssenes, I have treated accurately in the*second book of Jewish affairs. After Hyrcanus had put an end to this se­dition, he lived happily, and administered thegovernment in the best manner for tthirty-one years; and then Jdied: leaving behindhim five sons. He was esteemed by Godworthy of three of the greatest privileges:the government of his nation, the dignity ofthe high-priesthood, and prophecy. For Godwas with him, and enabled him to know fu­turities: and to foretel this in particular, thatas to his two eldest sons, he foretold that theywould, not long continue in the governmentof public affairs. Their unhappy catastrophewill be worth our description: that we maythence learn, how much they were inferiorto their father's happiness. CHAP. XI. OF THE SUCCESSION OF ARISTOBULUS TO THE GOVERN­MENT J HIS ASSUMPTION OF REGAL HONOURS; HIS CRU­ELTY TO HIS MOTHER AND HIS BRETHREN; AND HISMISERABLE DEATH. WHEN Hyrcanus was dead, his eldestson, Aristobulus, intending to changethe government into a kingdom, first of allput a diadem upon his head, four hundred and eighty-one years and three months afterthe people had been delivered from the Ba­bylonish slavery, and were returned to theirown country again. This Aristobulus lovedhis next brother Antigonus, and treated himas his equal: but the others he held in bonds.He also cast his mother into prison; becauseshe disputed the government with him; forHyrcanus had left her to be mistress of all.He even proceeded to that degree of barba­rity, as to starve her to death in prison. Nayhe was alienated from his brother Antigonusby calumnies, and added him to the rest whomhe slew; yet he seemed to have an affectionfor him, and made him above the rest a part­ner with him in the kingdom. Those calum­nies he at first did not give credit to: partlybecause he loved him, and so did not giveheed to what was said against him: and partlybecause he thought the reproaches were de­rived from the envy of the relators. But whenAntigonus was once returned from the army,and the feast of tabernacles was at hand, ithappened that Aristobulus was fallen sick,and that Antigonus went up most splendidlyadorned, and with his soldiers about him intheir armour, to the temple; to celebrate thefeast, and to offer up prayers for the recoveryof his brother. Now some wicked personswho had a great mind to raise a differencebetween the brethren, made use of this op­portunity of the pompous appearance of An­tigonus, and of the great actions which hehad done; and went to the king, and spite­fully aggravated his pompous shew at thefeast; and pretended that all these circum­stances were not like those of a private per­son: that these actions were indications ofan affectation of royal authority'; and that * See Of the War, Book II. chap. 8. t From an. 136 to an. 107, B. C. J Here ends the high-priesthood, and the life of thisexcellent person, John Hyrcanus: and together withhim, the Holy Theocracy, or Divine Government of theJewish nation; and its concomitant oracle by Urim.Now follows the profane and tyrannical Jewish monarchy;first of the Asmoneans, or Maccabees, and then of Herodthe Great, the Idumean; till the coming of the Messiah.See the note on HI. 8. Hear Strabo's testimony on thisoccasion, XVI. page 761, 762. "Those," says he, "thatsucceeded Moses continued for some time in earnest, bothin righteous actions, and in piety. But after a while,,there were others that took upon them the high-priest­hood; at first superstitious, and afterwards tyrannical per­sons—Such a prophet was Moses, and those that suc­ceeded him: beginning in a way not to be blamed; but VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42. changing for the worse. And when it openly appearedthat the governmentwas become tyrannical, Alexander wasthe first that set up himself for a king, instead of a priest:and his sons were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus." This isin perfect agreement with Josephus: excepting (hatStrabo omits the first king, Aristobulus; who reigningbut a single year, seems hardly to have come to hisknowledge. Nor indeed does Aristobulus, the son ofAlexander, pretend that the name of king was taken be­fore his father Alexander took it himself, XIV. 3. Seealso chap. 12, which favour Strabo also. Also indeed, ifwe may judge from the very different characters of thqEgyptian Jews under high-priests, and of the PalestineJews under kings, in the two next centuries; we maywell suppose, that the divine Shechinah was removed intoEgypt; and that the worshippers at the temple of Oniaiwere better men than those at the temple of Jerusalem.4H >