OCR Output CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 35 answer them, which induced Hercules to turn back. Ashe was advancing to the cows, Cacus attempted to stophim with all the force he'could muster; but Hercules,with a singte stroke oi his ciub, laid him breathless atbis feet, whilst he vainly imptored the protection of theshepherds. At that time Eyaader, having fled from Peloponnesus,*had the government of this country, more out of respectto bis superior merit, than any legal investiture. Hewas highly revered for his wonderful learning, a thingquite uncommon among men who were ignorant of everyart] and still more for the supposed divinity of his motherCarmenta, to whom before the coming of the Sybil-)-into Italy, these nations, for her prophetic spirit, paidgreat "veneration. This Evander was called upon by theshepherds, who crowded in great consternation aboutthe stranger, and impeached him with open murder. Having heard the crime, and the provocation fullyexplained, and observing a certain dignity in the air ofHercules, and his size rather above the human, he askedhim who he was? The moment his name, his father,and his country were mentioned, " Hail, Hercules, (said"he) son of Jupiter; my mother, a true prophetess,". hath declared to me, that you will increase the num-"ber of the celestials, and that to you an altarf shall,"be dedicated here, which an empire, the most povt-er-"ful upon earth, shall call the greatest-f Herculesreaching him the hand of friendship, replied, "That he"gladly accepted the omen, and would fulfil the plea-"sure of the fates, by raising and consecrating an altar"accordingly." Thus, for the first time, an heifer being selected forthe purpose, the most beautiful in the whole collection,a sacrifice was made to Hercules; the Potitii and Pinarii,families of the first distinction in the country, performingthe service, and partaking of the entertainment. Ithappened, however, that the Potitii were present at the * Now the Morea. f The Sybils were thought to have been divinely inspired, ofvhicb, the most considerabte were the Persian and Cumsan,I It itood ib the Ox Market. ,