OCR Output 122 [BOOK IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Balaam upon his face, and foretold what ca­lamities would befal the several kings of thenations, and the most eminent cities; some ofwhich of old were not so much as inhabited;which events have come to pass among theseveral people concerned, both in the pre­ceding ages, and in this, till my own memory,both by sea and land. From which comple­tion of these predictions, one may naturallyexpect that the rest will have their comple­tions in time to come. Balak, being very angry that the Israeliteswere not cursed, sent away Balaam, withoutthinking him worthy of any honour. Where­upon, when he was just upon his journey, inorder to pass the Euphrates, he sent for Ba­lak, and tor the princes of the Midianites, andspake thus to him: "O Balak, and you Mi­dianites that are here present, I am obliged,even without the will of God, to gratify you.It is true, no entire destruction can seize uponthe nation of the Hebrews; neither by war,nor by plague, nor by scarcity of the fruits ofthe earth; nor can any other unexpected ac­cident be to their entire ruin. For the pro­vidence of God is concerned to preserve themfrom such a misfortune; nor will it permit anysuch calamity to come upon them, wherebythey may all perish. But some small misfor­tunes, and those for some time, whereby theymay appear to be brought low, may still befalthem. But after that they will flourish again,to the terror of those who brought those mis­chiefs upon them. So that if you are desirousof gaining a victory over them for a shortspace of time, you will obtain it by followingmy directions. Do you therefore,* set out thecomeliness of such of your daughters as aremost eminent for beauty, and proper to con­quer the modesty of those that behold them;and these decked and ornamented to thehighest degree you are able. Then send themto the Israelites' camp; and give them incharge, that when the young men of the He­brews desire their company, they allow it them. And when they see that they are ena­moured of them, let them take their leave;and if they entreat them to stay, let them notgive their consent, till they have persuadedthem to neglect their own laws, and the wor­ship of that God who established them, andto worship the gods of the Midianites andMoabites: for by this means God will be in­censed againstt them." Accordingly whenBalaam had suggested this course, he wenthis way. When the Midianites had sent their daugh­ters, as Balaam had exhorted them, the He­brew young men were allured by their beauty;and besought them not to grudge them theenjoyment of their beauty, nor to deny themtheir conversation. These daughters of theMidianites received their words gladly, andconsented to stay with them. But when theyhad brought them to be perfectly enamoured,they began to talk of departing. Then it wasthat these men became greatly disconsolate atthe women's departure; and were urgent withthem not to leave them; but begged theywould continue there, and become theirwives, and promised them they should beowned as mistresses of all they had. Thisthey said with an oath, calling God for thearbitrator of what they promised; and thiswith tears in their eyes, and such other marksof concern as might show how miserable theythought themselves without them, and somight move their compassion. So the women,as soon as they perceived they had madethem their slaves, and had enamoured themwith their conversation, began to speak thusto them: "O ye illustrious young men; we havehouses of our own at home, and great plentyof good things there; together with the na­tural affectionate love of our parents andfriends. Nor is it out of our want of any suchthings that we are come to discourse withyou; nor did we admit of your invitation withdesign to prostitute our beauty for gain: but, offering sacrifice, he meant twice beside the first timealready mentioned, which is not yet very probable; can­not now be certainly determined. In the mean time - allother copies have three such attempts of Balaam to cursethem in the present history. * Such a large and distinct account of this perversion ofthe Israelites by the Midianite women, of which our othercopies give us but short intimations, Numb. xxxi. 16.2 Pet. ii. 15. Jude 11. Apoc. ii. 14. is preserved, as Roland informs us, in the Samaritan chronicle, in Philo, and inother writings of the Jews, as well as here by Josephus.t This grand maxim, that God's people of Israel couldnever be hurt, nor destroyed, but by drawing them to sinagainst God; appears to be true, by the entire history ofthat people, both in the Bible, and in Josephus; and isoften noticed in them both. See in particular a most re­markable Ammonite testimony to this purpose: Judith v5,21.