OCR Output 148 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK If. CHAP. XXX. Manius Valerius chosen Dictator. _L HE opinion of Appius, seemed to many, as it reallywas, extremely harsh and severe. On the other hand,the propositions by Virginius and Largius, would bedangerous precedents, especially that of Largius, whichwould give a fatal blow to all credit and commerce. Itwas admitted, that the opinion of Virginius, which by ajudicious medium, corrected Largius's excess, was themost moderate and eligible. But the intrigues of par足ties, and the view of private interest, which ever did,and ever will obstruct public deliberations, turned thescale in favour of Appius's opinion, who was within alittle of being declared dictator himself, which would en足tirely have exasperated and alienated the people at thisdangerous conjuncture, when the Volsci, JEqu't, and Sa-bines, were all in arms together. But the consuls and the older senators took care, thatan authority, in itself imperious and absolute, should beconferred upon one of a mild and moderate disposition.So the election fell upon Manius Valerius, the son ofVolesus. The people saw well enough, that it was.against them, a dictator was cheated; yet, having gotthe right of appeal, by a law preferred by his brother,they suspected nothing oppressive or tyrannical from thatfamily. t An edict of the dictator^, much of the same naturewith that published by the consul Servilius, confirmedthem afterwards in these hopes. Wherefore, in confi足dence of the dictator's name, and the sovereign powerof his office, they gave in their names without opposition.Ten legions were raised; an army superior to any leviedbefore. Each of the consuls commanded three, and thedictator four. They were obliged to take the field im足mediately; for the /Equi had entered the territory ofI.atium with a hostile army, and the Latins, by theirdeputies, insisted that the senate should relieve them, orpermit them to arm in their own defence. It seemedmore eligible to send an army for their protection, than