OCR Output Ml MASSILIA. MASSILIA iv. 179, 180.) Caesar, who knew the site well, de­scribes Massalia as washed by the sea almost alongthree parts of its extent; ttie fourth part was thatby which the city was connected with the main­land; and here also the part that was occupied bythe citadel was protected by the nature of the groundand a very deep valley (£. C. ii. 1). He speaks ofan island op[«>site to Massalia. There are three smallislands nearly opposite the entrance of the presentport. It was connected with the mainland, as Eu-menius describes it, "by a space of fifteen hundredpares." D'Anville observes that these fifteen hun­dred paces, or a Roman mile and a half, considerablyexceed the actual distance from the bottom of thep.rt to the place called the Grande Pomte; and hesupposes that we must take these to 1* single paces,and so reduce the space to half the dimensions.Walckenaer (Geog. <yc. vol. i. p. 25) supposesKmnenius to mean that the tongue of land on whichMassalia stood was 1500 paces long. At presentthe port of Maneitle is turned to the west; but theold |wrt existed for a long time after the Romanjeriod. This old port was named Lacydon (Mela,il. 5), a name which also appears on a medal ofMassalia. The houses of Massalia were mean. Ofthe public buildings not a trace remains now, thoughit seems that there were not very long ago some re­mains of aqueducts and of baths. Medals, urns, andother antiquities have often been dug up. Tbo friendship of Rome and Massalia dates fromthe Second Punic War, when the Massaliots gave theRomans aid (Liv. xxi. 20, 25, 26), and assistedthem all through the long struggle. (Polyb. iii. 95.)In ii. c. 208 the Massaliots sent the Romans intel­ligence of Asdmbal having come into Gallia. (Liv.xxvii. 36.) Massalia was never safe against theLigurians, who even attacked them by sea (Liv.xl. 18). At last (B.C. 154) they were obliged toask the Romans for aid against the Oxybii andDeceatcs, who were defeated by Q. Opimius. Thestory of the establishment of the Romans in SouthernGallia is told in another place [Gallia Trans-ALPHA, Vol. I. p. 953.] TLAX OF TUB F.NVIROXS OF MARSEILLE. A. Site of the modern town. B. Mount above the ClUUel. C. Modern Port.1). Port Nruf.P.. Citadel. F. Catalan village and harbour. G. 1-.■■• I'l ,:,■ II Id If. I. ILuei.rail I.K. Potnrguci 1. By the victory of the Romans over the Liguriansthe Mii&nuhuts got some of the Ligurian lands; andafter tin defeat of the Tcutones by C, Minius (n. c. 102) near Aquae Sextiae (AU), the Romanmander gave the Massaliots the canal which he hadconstructed at the eastern outlet of the Rhone, andthey levied tolls on the ships that used it [FossaMariana]. The Massaliots were faithful to totRomans in all their campaigns in Gallia, and fur­nished them with supplies. (Cic. pro Font, c I.)Cn. Pompeius gave to the community of Massalialands that had belonged to the V'olcae Arecoti-.inand the Helvii; and C. Julius Caesar increased theirrevenue by fresh grants. (B. C. i. 35.) When Caesar (b. c. 49) was marching from Italyinto Spain against the legati of Pompeius, Massaliashut her gates against him. The excuse was thatthey would not side with either party; hot theyshowed that they were really favourable to Pom­peius by admitting L. Dotnitius within their walkand giving him the command of the city (B. C. i.34—36). At the suggestion of Pompeius the.Massaliots also had made great preparations fa-defence. Caesar left three legions under his legates C. Trebonius to besiege Massalia, and he gave D. Brutus the command of twelve ships which behad constructed at Artlatc (Aria) with great ex-pedition. While Caesar was in Spain, the MasKahotshaving manned seventeen vessels, eleven of whichwere decked ships, and put on board of them manyof the neighbouring mountaineers, named Albki.fought a battle with Brutus in which they lost niieships. (B. C. i. 56—59.) But they still held out,and the narrative of the siege and their sufferings isone of the most interesting parts oT Caesar's Historyof the Civil War (B. C. ii. 1—22; Dion Cassia,xli. 25). When the town finally surrendered toCaesar, the people gave up their arms and militaryengines, their ships, and all the money that was hithe public treasury. The city of Massalia appearedin Caesar's triumph at Rome, uthat city," saysCicero, "without which Rome never triumphedover the Transalpine nations" (Philipp. Tin. C,de Offic. ii. 8). Still it retained its freedom (awra-vofiia\ or in Roman language it was a Libera Civitaa,a term which Strain correctly explains to -unitythat tho ilassaliots "were not under the governorswho were sent into the Provincia, neither the cityitself, nor the dependencies of the city." Pliny namesMassalia a "foedcrata civitas" (iii. 4). a term whichthe history of its early connection with Rome explains. The constitution of Massalia was aristocratic andits institutions were good (Strab. iv. p. 179). It hada council of 600, who held their puues for lite, andwere named Timuchi (ti/ioDxoi). The council hada committee of fifteen, in whose hands the ordinaryadministration was: three out of the fifteen presidedover the committee, and bad the chief power: theywere the executive. Strain's text hers ten ansacorrupt, and it is doubtful whether he means to saythat no man could be a Timuchus, unless be hadchildren and unless he could trace his descent forthree generations from a citizen, or that no mascould be one of the fifteen unless he fulfilled Uaeaaconditions. (See Groskurd, Traiul. Strabo, rat. ip. 310.) Their laws were Ionic, says Strabo, what­ever this means; and were set up in public. Pro­bably we may infer that they were not overloadedwith legislation. Aristotle (Pol. v. 6) seems to saythat Massalia was once an oligarchy, and w« mayconclude from this and other authorities that it be­came a Tiinocracy, that is, that the political powercame into the hands of tliw who had a certaiaamount of wealth. Cicero (de Krp. i. S7, SS) a