OCR Output VITELLIA. 1313 ULIA. wan in Germany they often advanced as tar as itshanks, and at one time even crossed it; but theyseem to hare been unacquainted with its southerncoarse, and with its real origin; for it is formed bythe confluence of the Werra and the Fulda, whilePtolemy (ii. 11. § 1) imagined that it bad itssources in Mons Melibocus. Marcianus ()>. 51)states that its length amounted to from 1600 to1780 stadia. The Visurgis flowed into the GermanOcean in the country of the Chauci. (Comp. Pomp.Mela, iii. 4; Plin. It. 27; Tac. Attn. i. 70, ii. 9;Veil Pat. ii. 105; Sidon. Apoll. Carm. xxiii. 243;Strab. rii. p. 291; Dion Cass. xliv. 33, lv. 1, 2, 8,In. 18.) [L. S.] VITELLIA (BirsXAfo, Steph. B.: EUi. Bit«\-Au-or, Vitellicnsis), an ancient town of Latium,which was, however, apparently situated in theterritory of the Aequi, or at least on their imme­diate frontiers, so that it is hard to determinewhether it was properly a Latin or an Aequiantown. But the circumstance that its name is notfound in the list of the cities of the Latin Leaguegiven by Dionysius (v. 61) is strongly in favour ofthe latter supposition. Its name is first mentionedby Livy (ii. 39) in the account of the celebratedcampaign of Coriolanns, whom he represents astaking Vitellia at the same time as Corbio, La-bicnm, and Pedum: but in tho more detailed nar­ratives of the same campaign by Dionysius andPlutarch, no notice is found of Vitellia. The nameis again mentioned by Livy in B.C. 393, when thecity fell into the bands of the Aequi, who surprisedit by a night attack (Liv. v. 29.) lie there callsit " Coloniam Romanam,'* and says it had beensettled by them in the territory of the Aequi; butwe have no previous account of this circumstance;nor is there any statement of its recovery by theRomans. A tradition preserved to us by Suetoniusrecorded that the Roman colony was at one timeentrusted to the sole charge of the family of theYitellii for its defence (Suet. VilelL 1); bnt thereran be little doubt that this is a mere familylegend. All trace of Vitellia, as well as Toleriumand other towns in the same neighbourhood, dis­appears after the Gaulish invasion, and the onlysubsequent mention of the name occurs in the listgiven by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9) of the cities of Lutiumwhich were in his time utterly extinct. The siteil wholly uncertain, though it seems probable thatt may be placed in the same part of Latium asTtderium, Bola, Labicum, and other towns on theron tiers of the Aequian territory. It has been.Uced by Gell at Yalmontone, a place which in allprobability occupies an ancient site, and this wouldlo very veil for Vitellia, bnt that it is equallyuitable for Tolerium, which must be placed some-rbers in the same neighbourhood, and is accord-ugly fixed by Nibby at Yalmontone [Tolxrium.]Pbe Latter writer would transfer Vitellia to CivittUacalled also Ciritella of Olerano), situated in thenuuiitaina between Olerano and Subiacv; but thisrem* decidedly too far distant from the other citiesnth which Vitellia is connected. It would be mnchlore plausible to place Vitellia at Valmonione and!*-rium at I.w/naHo, about 3 miles NW. of it,ut that iMgnamo again would suit very well forIts ait« of Bola, which we are at a loss to fixvwhere [Bola]. The fact is that the deter-lination of the position of these cities, which dis->pe*rad in such early times, and of which no re-ird ia preserved by inscriptions or other ancient monu-rou ix. ments, must remain in great measure conjectural.(Gell. Top. of Rome, p. 436; Nibby, Dintorni, vol. i.p. 467, vol. iii. p. 370.) [E. H. B.l VITIA (Ourrio, Strab. xi. pp. 508, 514, 531:Eth. Ovi'tioi), a small district in Media Atro-patene, noticed by Strabo in bis account of thatprovince. It appears to have been in tbe north­ern part near the tribes of the Dribyccs andAmardi. [V.] VITIS [Una]. VIT0DURUM or VITUDUBUM, in Gallia, ismentioned in an inscription, in which it is said thatthe emperors Diocletian anil Maxiniianus " itiurumVitodurensem a solo instauraverunt" The AntonineItin. places it between Vindonissa (Winduch) andFines (Pfin) [FtKES, No. 15.] At Wintertltur inthe SwUs canton of Zurich there is in the townlibrary a collection of Roman coins and cut stones,most of which have been found in the neighbour­hood of the town and in the adjacent village of"/..)■,;■;„i, which is the site of Vitotlurum. (D'Amille. -Vofice, <fc.) [G. L.] VITRICIL'M (1'errw), a town or village of theSalassi, on the high road leading from Eporedia(/rreo), to Augusta Praetoria (Aotta). It iaknown only from the Itineraries, which place it 25miles from Augusta, and 21 from Eporedia {ltin.Ant. pp. 345, 347, 351), but is undoubtedly iden­tical with term, a large village in the ValdAoita,at the entrance of the Vol Chaliant. [E. H. B.] VIVANTAVARIUM (Ou&u^ooiouw, Ptol. iii.5. § 30). a place in European Sannatia. between therivers Axiaces and Tyras. [T. H. D.] V1VISCI, VIBISCI. [BiTvniOES Vtvisci.] VIVISCUS, in Gallia. In the Antonine ltin. thename is Btbincus. The place is I'erriy, or near it,in the SwUs canton of \Yaadt or 1'ouo!. See thearticle Pcnnklocus. [G. L.] ULCAEI LACL'S (Oi\itaia «A»), a successionof lakes and swamps in Pannonia, between the mouthaof the Draw and Savus. (Dion Cass. lv. 32 ) Theyseem to be the same as the Palus Hiulca mentionedby Aurelius Victor (EpiL 41) as being near Cilmlaain Pannunia. (Comp. Zceim. ii. 18.) Those likesnow bear the name of Laiincte. [L. S.] ULCI'SIA CASTRA, a fort in Pannonia, on theroad running along the right bank of the Uunubiuafrom Aquimum to Bregctio (It. Ant p. 269), isnow call' Sztnt Endrt. [L. S.] ULIA (OuAia, Strab. iii. p. 141), a town in ii. .pania Baetica, on a hill, on the road from Gades toConluba. (I tin, . t >..'. i.. 11 2 ) It was a Romanmuuiiipium, with the surname of Eidentia, and be­longed to the jurisdiction of Conluba (Plin. iii. 3.s. 4; Hirt. B. U. 3, 4, B. Alex. 61; Dion Cass, xliii.31.) From inscriptions it appears to be the presentMonte Mayor, where there are ruins. (Ct Morales,AnL p. 5; Florez, Eip. Saor. x. p. 150, xii. p. 5;coins in Florez, Med. ii. p. 620, iii. p. 130; Mion-net, L p. 27, Suj.pL i. p. 47.) [T. H. D.]