OCR Output TO THE PUBLIC. ii the writing of history, his appearance, as a historian,would rather have eome short of Livy's. Our author's Roman history originally consisted of142 Books, extending from the foundation of Rome tothe death of Dausus, A. U. C. 744; but the lamentabledepredations which have been committed on the literarytreasures of antiquity, by Goths and Vandals, Monks,worms, and that notorious belluo librorum, time, havedeprived us of above 170 Books, the value of which maybe estimated from the expectations which have beenformed, the searches that have been made, and the re­wards that have been proposed for recovering all theBooks of this inimitable historian, which are wanted inour printed copies. Once indeed it was fully expected,that all the works of Livy would have been restored en­tire to the world. One Justinian!, a Greek merchant ofthe island of Chios, happening to be m France, in theyear 1685, offered the French king all the works ofLivy.He pretended, that at the great fire, which happened atConstantinople in the 1665, this valuable work was, a-mong other books, thrown out a window, and pickedup bv a Turk, who sold it privately to a merchant, bywhom he was commissioned to sell it. The bargain wasstruck ; by which Justiniani was entitled to receive atthe rate of 10,000 crowns instantly paid him, for everytwo Decades he could produce. But he never returnedwith the copy, which was an universal disappoint­ment*. Thus in all ages, since the works of Kvy made theirfirst appearance in the world, have they been universal­ly admired, and sought after with the greatest avidity;and such was the veneration paid to their illustrious au­thor, by Alphonso king of Naples, that he sent, in theyear '452, Panormita as his ambassador to the Veneti­ans, in whose dominions the bones of Livy had beenlately discovered, to beg a relic of this celebrated-histo­rian. They presented him with an arm bone; and thepresent is recorded in an inscription preserved at Padua,to this day f. * Marhoff de Patavin. LIT.f Vosiiu* de biitoricis Latinis.