OCR Output DISCOURSE III. XCI at peace with Sparta, by means of truces for thirty years.Young Alcibiades doth all he can to promote the quarrel,till at length the troops of Sparta and Argos come to an en足gagement near the city of Mantinea. Thucydides intro-duceth the battle with all the spirit and precision of Homer.The -auxiliaries are marshalled, and animated by such exhor足tations, as are best suited to the peculiar circumstances ofeach. The Spartans are exhibited at last in all their glorv.Trained up for a camp and the day of battle, we shall viewthem in their discipline and actual exertion of their personalbravery. They were excellent combatants indeed ; and thereader will judge, whether Thucydides did not love goodsoldiers, and take a pleasure in doing them justice. It wasthe greatest battle, which for many years had been foughtin Greece. The Spartans, on this occasion, wiped off all theimputations that had lately been thrown on their bravery,because they had not been always successful: And theSpiring State of Argos is compelled to acquiesce in herusual rank, and still leave the contention for supremacy tothe leading States of Athens and Sparta. This Book affords but one incident more, of consequenceenough to be particularly distinguished ; and that is theconquest of the isle of Melos by the Athenians, which fellout in the sixteenth year of the war. When the Athenianswere landed and encamped on that island, they summon theMelians to a conference, of which Thucydides hath drawnout the particulars. It is really an uncommon one, and hadsadly puzzled the critics, whether they should praise or con足demn it. But, is there any thing more unnatural in recitingwhat was said at it, than in holding a conference ? It is mybusiness only to look at the management of it, and not drawa veil over the Athenian politics, as they are avowed on thisoccasion, since my author was too impartial to do it. No足thing could tempt him to make palliating representations,or to suppress the truth. " The Athenians, on this occasion, avow without a blush