OCR Output 524 ROMAN EMPIRE. vernment were reserved for local services or privatemagnificence. Instead of a regular supply of men andmoney, the successors of the prophet were flattered withthe ostentatious gift of an elephant, or a cast of hawks,a suit of silk hangings, or some pounds of musk andamber.1 ( After the revolt of Spain, from the temporalpendent and spiritual supremacy of the Abbassides, theynasues' first symptons of disobedience broke forth in theprovince of Africa. Ibrahim, the son of Aglab, the lieu­tenant of the vigilant and rigid Harun, bequeathed toThe A la- ^e dynasty of the Aglabites the inheritance ofbites, A.D. his name and power. The indolence or policyof the caliphs dissembled the injury and loss,nd pursued only with poison the founder of the829^907 Edrisites,™ who erected the kingdom and city ofThe Tahe- Fez on the shores of the western ocean." In theA. D, east, the first dynasty was that of the Taherites,0813-872. ^ p0sterity Of the valiant Taher, who, in the civil wars of the sons of Harun, had served with toomuch zeal and success the cause of Almamon, theyounger brother. He was sent into honourable exile,to command on the banks of the Oxus; and the inde­pendence of his successors, who reigned in Chorasan tilltill the fourth generation, was palliated by their modest 1 The dynasties of the Arabian empire may be studied in the Annals of Elmacin •Abulpharagius, and Abulfeda, under the proper yeats; in the dictionary of d'Her-belot, under the proper names. The tables of M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn.1.) exhibit a general chronology of the east, interspersed with some historicalanecdotes; but his attachment to national blood has sometimes confounded lheorder of time and plaoe. '" The Algabites and Edrisites are the professed subjects of M. de CaiJonne.(Hist. d'Afrique et de 1' Espagne sous la Domination des Aiabes, torn. 2. p. 1—63. ° To escape the reproach of error, I must criticise the inaccuracies of M. deGuignes (torn. 1. p. 359.) concerning the Edriaites. 1. The dynasty and city of Fezcould not be founded in the year of the Hegira 173, since the founder was a potf-humous child of a descendant of Ali, who fled from Mecca in the year 168. 9. Thisfounder, Edris, the son of Edris, instead of living to the improbable age of one hun­dred and twenty years, A. 11. 313, died A. H. 214, in the prime of manhood. 3.Th»dynasty ended A. H. 307, twenty-three years sooner than it is fixed by the historianof the Huns. See the accurate Annals of Abulfeda. p. 158,159. 185. 258. 0 The dynasties of the Taherites and Soffarides, with the rise of that of the Sa-manides, are described in the original history and Latin version of Mirchond ; yetthe most interesting facts had already been drained by the diligence of M.d'Her-belot.