OCR Output A. D. 16.] 77 OF TACITUS. Some were of a shorter size, sharpened to & point atthe stern and prow, and broad in the middle, the bet­ter to endure the fury of the waves; others were flat-t>ottomed, that they might without difficulty run inupon the shore. A great number had rudders at eachend, that, by a sudden turn of the oars, they mightwork with facility either way. In many of the ships,formed as well to carry sail as to advance with thestroke of the oar, arches were raised on the decks, ofstrength to bear the engines of war, and at the sametime afford room for horses and provisions. The fleetthus equipped, displayed a magnificent spectacle;while the swell of the sails, the alacrity of tho oars,and the bustle of their soldiers struck a general ter­ror. The isle of Batavia was the place appointed forthe general rendezvous. The shore in those partsbeing easy of approach, the troops might be speedilylanded, and again embarked with expedition, so as tospread an alarm through the country. The Rhine,embracing in its course a few small islands, flows inone united stream, till it reaches the point of Bata­via ; where it branches off in two different channels;one running with rapid force along the confines ofGermany, and, till it fall into the ocean, still retain­ing its original name; the other, with a wider butless violent current,, washes the side of Gaul, and bythe inhabitants is called tho Wahal, till at last, losingitself in the Mcuse, it takes the name of that riverand through an immense opening discharges itselfinto the German Ocean. VII. While the fleet was preparing for the expedi­tion, Germanicus ordered Silius, with a light detach­ment, to make an irruption into the territory of theCattians. Meanwhile* having intelligence that thefort upon the river Luppia was invested, he marchedhimself, at tlie head of six legions, to relieve the gar­rison. A sudden fall of heavy rains obliged Silius todesist from his enterprise. He returned with a mo­derate booty, and two prisoners; one the wife, theother the daughter, of Arpus, prince of the Cattians.Germanicus was not able to bring the Germans to anengagement. He no sooner appeared before tha