OCR Output 106 THE DECLINE AND FALL ity, an officer of experience proposed a measure, secure by the appearance ofrashness; that the Roman army should cautiously advance along the sea-shore,while the fleet preceded their march, and successively cast a bridge of boats overthe mouths of the rivers, the Timavus, the Brenta, the Adige, and the Po, tha tfall into the Hadriatic to the north of Ravenna. Nine days he reposed in the city,collected the fragments of the Italian army, and marched towards Rimini to meetthe defiance of an insulting enemy. The prudence of Narses impelled him to a speedy and decisive action. Hispowers were the last effort of the state: the cost of each day accumulated the enor­mous account; and the nations, untrained to discipline or fatigue, might be rashlyprovoked to turn their arms against each other, or against their benefactor. Thesame .considerations might have tempered the ardour of Totila. But he was con­scious, that the clergy and people of Italy aspired to a second revolution: he felt orsuspected the rapid progress oftreason, and he resolved to risk the Gothic kingdomon the chance of a day, in which the valiant would be animated by instant danger,and the disaffected might be awed by mutual ignorance. In his march from Ra­venna, the Roman general chastised the garrison of Rimini, traversed in a directline the hills of Urbino, and re-entered the Flaminian way, nine miles beyond theperforated rock, an obstacle of ait and nature which might have stopped or retard­ed his progress. (1) The Goths were assembled in the neighbourhood of Rome;they advanced, without delay, to seek a superior enemy, and the two armies ap­proached each other at the distance of one hundred furlongs, between Tagina(2)and the sepulchres of the Gauls. (3) The haughty message of Narses was an of­fer, not of peace, but of pardon. The answer of the Gothic king declared his re­solution to die or conquer. " What day," said the messenger, " will you fix forthe combat?" "The eighth day," replied Totila: but early the next morning heattempted to surprise a foe, suspicious of deceit, and prepared for battle. Tenthousand Heruli and Lombards, of approved valour and doubtful faith, were placedin the centre. Each of the wings was composed of eight thousand Romans; theright was guarded by the cavalry of the Huns, the left was covered by fifteen hun­dred chosen horse, destined, according to the emergencies of action, to sustain theretreat of their friends, or to encompass the flank of the enemy. From his prc- Ser station at the head of the right wing, the eunuch rode along the line, expressingy his voice and countenance the assurance of victory; exciting the soldiers of theemperor to punish the guilt and madness of a band of robbers; and exposing totheir view gold chains, collars, and bracelets, the rewards of military virtue. Fromthe event of a single combat, they drew an omen of success; and they beheld withpleasure the courage of fifty archers, who maintained a small eminence against threesuccessive attacks of the Gothic cavalry. At the distance only of two bow-shots,the armies spent the morning in dreadful suspense, and the Romans tasted somenecessary food, without unloosening the cuirass from their breast, or the bridlefrom their horses. Narses awaited the charge; and it was delayed by Totila tillhe had received his last succours of two thousand Goths. While he consumedthe hours in fruitless treaty, the king exhibited in a narrow space the strength andagility of a warrior. His armour was enchased with gold; his purple banner float­ed with the wind; he cast his lance into the air; caught it with the right hand; shift­ed it to the left; threw himself backward; recovered his seat; and managed a fierysteed in all the paces and evolutions of the equestrian school. As soon as the suc- vered with wood*, lakes, and morassei. Man has subdued nature, and the land has been cultivated, sincethe waters are confined and embanked. See the learned researches of Muratori (Antiquitat. Italia: medii-A2vi, torn. i. dissert. 21. p. 253,254.) from Vitruvius, Strata, Herodian.old charters,and local knowledge. (1) The Flaminian way, as it is corrected from the Itineraries, and the best modern maps, by dVAnville(Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 147—162.,) may be thus stated: Rome to Narni, fifty-one Roman miles: Terni, fifty-seven, Spoleto, seventy-five; Foligno, eighty-eight; Nocera, one hundred and three; Cagli, one hundred andforty-two; Intercisa, one hundred and fiftv-seven; Fossombrone, one hundred and sixty; Fano, one hundredand seventy-sis.; Pesaro,one hundred and eighty-four; Rimini, two hundred and eight—about one hundred andeighty-nine English miles. He takes no notice of the death of Totila; but Wesseling (Itinerar. p. 614.) ex­changes for the field of Taginas the unknown appellation of Ptanint, eight miles from Nocera. (2) Taginss, or rather 1 adinse, is mentioned by Pliny; but the bishoprio of that obscure town, a mile fromGualdo, in the plain, was united, in the year 1007, with that of Nocera. The signs of antiquity are preservedin the local appellations, Fossato, the camp Capraia, Caprea, Bastia, Busta Gallortun. See Cluverius (ItaliaAntiqua, lib. it. e. 6. p. 615—617.,) Lucas Holstenius (Annotat. ad Cluver. p. 85,86.,) Guazzesi (Dissertat. p.177—217. a professed inquiry) and the maps of the ecclesiastical state and the march of Ancona, by Le Mai reand Mae/ini. (3) The battle was fought in the year of Rome 458: and the consul Decius, by devoting his own life, as­sured the triumph of his countrvand his colleague Fabius (T. Liv. 10. 28,29.) Procopius ascribes to Ca-millus the victory of the hmta Gallorum; and his error is branded by Cluverius with the national reproach ofGiKcorum nugamcnta.