OCR Output B. II.") AGAINST APION. 1^9 exercise of virtue; for this way of worship of God is themost holy of all others. 24. There ought also to he hut One Temple for One God:for likeness is the constant foundation of agreement. Thistemple ought to he common to all men, because he is thecommon God of all men. His priests arc to be continuallyabout his worship ; over whom he that is the first by his birthis to be their ruler perpetually. His business must be to offersacrifices to God, together with those priests that are joinedwith him; to see that the laws be observed; to determinecontroversies, and to punish those that are convicted of in足justice : while he that does not submit to him shall be subjectto the same punishment as if he had been guilty of impietytowards God himself. When we offer sacrifices to him, wedo it not in order to surfeit ourselves, or to be drunken; forsuch excesses are against the will of God and would be anoccasion of injuries and of luxury; but by keeping ourselvessober, orderly, and ready for our other occupations, and beingmore temperate than others. And for our duty at the sacri足fices themselves, we ought, in the first place, to pray1 for thecommon welfare of all, and after that for our own; for woare made for fellowship one with another : and he who prefersthe common good before what is peculiar to himself is aboveall acceptable to God. And let our prayers and supplicationsbe made humbly to God, not [so much] that he would giveus what is good (for he hath already given that of his ownaccord, and hath proposed the same publicly to all,) as thatwe may duly receive it, and when we have received it, may ' We may hero observe how known a thing it was among the Jews andheathens, in this and many other instances, that sacrifices were still accom足panied with prayers ; whence most probably came those phrases of the sacri足fice of prayer, the sacrifice of praise, the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Howeverthose ancient forms used at sacrifices are now generally lost, to the no smalldamage of true religion. It is here also exceeding remarkable, that althoughthe temple of Jerusalem was built as the only place where the whole nationof the Jews were to offer their sacrifices, yet is there no mention of thesacrifices themselvei", but of prayers only, in Solomon's long and famous formof devotion at its dedication; 1 Kings, xviii; 2 Chron. vi. See also manypassages cited in the Apostolical Constitutions, vii. 37, and Of the War above,1i. vii. ch. v. sect. 0.