OCR Output 262 THE PELOPONNESTAN WAR. B.VII. noises was heard together ;—Jkrieking—shouting—victory!—undone I —undone! — and all other sounds, of variousimport, which, in such extremity of danger, a nume­rous body of men may be forced to utter. Those, farther, on-board, were equally sensible of allthe quick alternatives of passion; till at last, after thebattle had for a long time been obstinately maintained,the Syracusans and allies put the Athenians to openflight; and, plying briskly in the chace, with obstrepe­rous clamour and loud exultations drove them upon thebeach. And here, the land-soldiers which had servedon-board, excepting such as had been taken in the deep­er water, leaping in all parts, as they severally could,on the shore, run in great confusion for shelter to the diversified, but with one and the same uniform vehe­mence, having expressed their resentment of the horribleconclusion by a loud skriek and a hearty groan, somehurried along the beach to succour the shipping; otherstodesend what yet remained of their intrenchments; whilsta third party, and the bulk of the army, confined theirwhole care to themselves, and were solely intent ontheir own personal preservation. The horrid consterna­tion, in which this moment they were universally plun­ged, was greater than Athenians had ever felt before.They suffered now what on a former occasion they hadmade others sufser at Pylus. There the Lacedæmonians,having first lost their fleet, had the farther mortificationto see all their gallant Spartans in the island undone. Andnow the desperate condition of the Athenians offered noglimmering of sasety on the land, unless some miracu­lous contingency should take place in their favour. After an engagement so hardy and well disputed, as*ter the sinking of a large number of ships,and the deathof numbers on both sides, the Syracusans and their al­lies, who were masters of the day, took up the shattersand the dead. This being done, they sailed in triumphto the city, and erected a trophy. But