OCR Output 246 Book XIX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. " my kindness to them with moderation, and not to shew a con-** tempt of the superstitious observances of other nations, but to** keep their own laws only. And I will that this decree of mine" be engraven on tables by the magistrates of the cities and colo-" nies, and municipal places, both those within Italy, and those" without it, both kings and governors, by the means pf the" ambassadors, and to have them exposed to the public for full" thirty days, in such a place *, whence it may plainly be readfrom the ground.'' CHAP, VI.What things were done by Agrippa at Jerusalem, when he was re-*turned back into Judea : and what it was that Petronius wroteto the inhabitants of Doris, in behalf of, the Jews. § 1. TVTOW Claudius Caesar, by these decrees of his which was' sent to Alexandria, and to all the habitable earth, madeknown what opinion he had of the Jews. So he soon sentAgrippa away, to take his kingdom, now he was advanced to amore illustrious dignity than before, and sent letters to the pre­sidents and procurators of the provinces, that they should treathim very kindly. Accordingly, he returned in haste, as waslikely he would, now he returned in much greater prosperitythan he had before. He also came to Jerusalem, and offeredall the sacrifices that belonged to him, and omitted nothing fwhich the law required ; on which account he ordained thatmany of the Nazarites should have their heads shorn. Andfor the golden chain which had been given him by Caius, ofequal weight with that iron chain wherewith his royal hands hadbeen bound, he hung it up within the limits of the temple, overthe treasury t, that it might be a memorial of the severe fatahe had lain under, and a testimony of his change for the better ;that it might be a demonstration how the greatest prosperity mayhave a fall, and that God sometimes raises up what is fallendown : for this chain thus dedicated afforded a document to all men, * This form was so known and frequent among the Romans, as Dr Hudsonhere tells us, from the great Selden, that it used to be thus represented at thebottom of their edicts by the initial letters only, U. D. P. R. L. Vnde De PianoXecte Lrgi Poisit. ". Whence it may be plainly read from the ground." f Josephus shews both here and ch. vii. sect. 3. that he had a much greateropinion of kins; Agrippa I. than Simon the learned rabbi, than the people of Ce.sarea and Sebaste, ch. vii. sect. 4. and ch. ix. sect. t. and indeed than his doubleiiealing between the senate and Claudius, chap. iv. sect 2. than his slaughter o£lames, the brother of John, and his imprisonment of Peter, or his vain-gloriousbehaviour before he died, both in Acts xii. f, 1, 3. and here, ch. iv. sect. t. willjustify or allow. Josephus's character was probably taken from his son AgrippaJ nior. i. This treasury-chamber seems to have been the very same in which our Sa­viour taught, and where the people offered their charity-money for the repairspr other uses of the temple. Mark, xii. 41. &c. Luke, xxii. I.John, viii. 20.