OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4« Though Constantinre might view the conduct of Maxentius with CiviI w" be" ° ° tween Con- abhorrence, and the situation of the Romans with companion, we have famine and Maxentius. no reason to presume that he would have taken up arms to punish A. D. 312^the one or to relieve the other. But the tyrant of Italy rashlyventured to provoke a formidable enemy, whose ambition had beenhitherto restrained by considerations of prudence, rather than byprinciples of justice *\ After the death of Maximian, his titles>according to the established custom, had been erased, and his statue*thrown down with ignominy. His son, who had persecuted anddeserted him when alive, affected to display the most pious re*-gard for his memory, and gave orders that a similar treatment shouldbe immediately inflicted on all the statues that had been erected inItaly and Africa to the honour of Constantine. That wife prince,who sincerely wished to decline a war, the difficulty and im­portance of which he was sufficiently acquainted with, at firifrdissembled the insult, and sought for redress by the milder ex<-pedients of negociation, till he was convinced, that the hostile andambitious designs of the Italian emperor, made it necessary for himto arm in his own defence. Maxentius, who openly avowed hispretensions to the whole monarchy of the West, had- already pre­pared a very considerable force to invade the Gallic provinces ot*the side of Rhætia, and though he could not expect any assistance fromLicinius, he was flattered, that the legions of Illyricum, allured by hispresents and promises, would desert the standard of that prince, andunanimously declare themselves his soldiers and subjects 49. Con­stantine no longer hesitated. He had deliberated with caution, heacted with vigour. He gave a private audience to the ambassadors*who, in the name of the senate and people, conjured him to deliverRome from a detested tyrant; and, without regarding the timidremonstrances of his council, he resolved to prevent the enemy>and to carry the war into the heart of Italy *°, The