OCR Output TEGEA. TEGEA. 1119 the formation of the Arcadian confederacy. (Xen.rli rl 5. § 6, seq.) When Mantineia a few yearserv&rds quarrelled with tho supreme Arcadianvfitrntnt, and formed an alliance with its oldhut Sparta, Tegea remained faithful to the newafrieracy, and fought under Eparninondas againstt v art an* at the great battle of Mantineia, 362.>a BtlL vii. 4. § 36, seq., vii. 5. § 5, seq.)T-vra at a later period joined the Aetolian League,tKuo after the accession of Cleomenes III. to the.irr-.n thnme it formed an alliance with Sparta,fi:,tr with Mantineia and Orchomenus. It thus»nf involved in hostilities with the Achaeans,J in tin war which followed, called the Clcomenicit, it was taken by Antigonus Doson, the ally ofr Achaean*, and annexed to the Achaean League,c.«2l (Pol ii. 46, 54, scq.) In 218 Tegeai attacked by Lycurgus, the tyrant of Sparta, 0 obtained possesion of the whole city with the«ftiuo of the acropolis. It subsequently fell» the hands of Machanidas, but was recoveredt:,e Achaeans after the defeat of the latteri..:, who was slain in battle by Philopocmen.»L v. 17, xi. 18.) In the timo of Strain) i was the only one of the Arcadian townskI continued to be inhabited (Strab. viii. p. 388), 1 it was still a place of importance in the time ofaanias, who has given us a minute account ofpublic buildings. (Pans. viii. 45—48, 53.)cm was entirely destroyed by Alaric towards the of the 4th century after Christ. (Claud. B.'. 576; com p. Zosim. t. 6.) territory of Tegea formed the southern part:Ae (Jain of Tripotitzd, of which a descriptions map are given under Mantineia. Tegeaabout 10 miles S. of tho latter city, in a.'irw, and about 3 miles SK. of the modern 0 of Tripoliizd. Being situated in the lowest[ if the plain, it was exposed to inundations It the writers flowing down from the sur-*Unz mountains; and in the course of ages»<ui has been considerably raided by the dej>o-e* brought down by the waters. Hence there*-arcrly any remains of the city visible, and its •■-in i-nly be conjectured frum the broken pieces*<■'.<* and other fragments scattered on the plain, hum the foundations of walls and buildingsr-d by the jjca-ants in working in the fields.Ff*sn, however, that the ancient city extended the hill of Aio Sottit (StSaviour) on the N., U*e hamleta Ibrahim- Ejftndi and Pako'Epis-. ai least aa far as Akkuria and Pudi Thiskl make the city at least 4 miles in circtun-ut. The principal remains are at Pialt, Near(nocipal church uf this Tillage Leake found thedaLuos of an ancient building, of tine squared », among which were two pieces of some largemn< of marble; and there can be little doubt thate w the remains of the ancient temple of Athena- Thi* temple was said to have Ixcn originally• by A lens, the founder of Tegea; it was burntc is a c. 394, and the new building, which wast*d by Scopas, is said by Pausanias to have beenlargest and most magnificent temple in the lVlo-wma (Pans, viii. 45. §4, seq.; for details see Diet'«$r. art. Soofas.) Pausanias entered the cityam the gate leading to Pallantium, consequently«oth-western gate, which must have been nearit He logins his description with the temple\lhena Alea, and then goes across the great 1 to the theatre, the remains of which Ross traces in the ancient foundations of the ruinedchurch of PaU6~Epi*kopi. Perhaps this theatrewas the splendid marble one built by Antiochus IV.Epiphanes in n.c. 175. (Liv. xli. 20.) Pausaniasends his description with the mention of a height(xwpfor tyi)\6v, viii. 53. § 9), probably the hillAioSostU in the N. of the town, and apparently thesame as that which Pausanias elsewhere calls theWatch-Hill (\6<pos tuAovrpfc, viii. 48. § 4), andPolybiua the acropolis (&xpa, v. 17). None of theother public buildings of Tegea mentioned by Pau­sanias can be identified with certainty; but therecan be no doubt if excavations were made on itssite many interesting remains would be discovered,since the deep alluvial soil is favourable to theirpreservation. The territory of Tegea N. of the city, towardsMantineia, is a plain of considerable size, and isusually called the Tegeatic plain (TrywutbvWoW). There was a smaller plain, separatedfrom the former by a low range of mountains S. ofTripolitzd, and lying between Tegea and Pallantium:it was called the Manthyric plain (yiavBvpiitbv vt~8iof), from Manthyrcn, one of the ancient demiof Tegea, the ruins of which are situated SW. ofTegea, on a slope of Mt. Boreium. (Pans. viii. 44.§ 7, comp. viii. 45. § 1, 47. § 1; Steph. B. *. v.MavQvpda.) The remainder of the Tegealis oh thoE. and S. is occupied by the mountains separatingit from Argolis and Sparta respectively, with theexception of a small plain running eastward fromthe Tegeatic plain to the foot of Mu Parthenium,and probably called the Corythic plain, from Cory-theis, one of the ancient demi of Tegea, which wassituated in this plain. (Paus. viii. 45. § 1, 54. H) Hie plnin of Tegea having no natural outlet forits waters is drained by natural chasms through thelimestone mountains, called katavtfthra. Of thesethe two mast important are at the modern village ofPersova and at the marsh of Taki. The former issituated in the Corythic plain above mentioned, atthe foot of Mt. Parthenium, and the latter is thomarsh in the Manthyric plain, SW. of Tegea. Thechief river in the district is now called the Saranta-potamos, which is undoubtedly the Alpheius of Pau­sanias (viii. 54. § 1, seq.). The Alpheius rose onthe frontiers of Tegea and Sparta, at a place calledPhylack (4»yA(£k7/, near Krya Vry»U)t one of theancient demi of Tegea, and, as we may infer fromits name, a fortified watch-tower for the protectionof the pass. A little beyond Phylace the Alpleiusreceives a stream composed of several mountaintorrents at a place named Syuuola (Zvptoka);but upon entering the plain of Tegea its coursewas different in ancient times. It now flows in anorth-easterly din-ction through the plain, receivesthe river of hhuliana (the ancient Garates, Tafa-tjjj, Pans. viii. 54. § 4). flows through the Cory­thic plain, and enters the katavithra at Prrsord.Pausanias, on the other hand, says (viii. 54. § 2)that the Alpheius descends into the earth in theTegeatic plain, reappears near Asea (SW. of Tegea),where, after joining the Enrol as, it sinks a secondtime into the earth, and again appears at Asea.Hence it would seem that the Alpheius ancientlyflowed in a north-westerly direction, and entered thekatarothra at the marsh of Taki, in the Manthyricplain. There is a tradition among the peasants thatthe course of the river was changed by a Turk, whoI acquired property in the neighbeurhood, because the