OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 397 columns, on one side of which we discover the square temple ofÆsculapius, on the other the octagon temple of Jupiter. Thelatter of those deities Diocletian revered as the patron of his for­tunes, the former as the protector of his health. By comparingthe present remains with the precepts of Vitruvius, the severalparts of the building, the baths, bedchamber, the atrium, the bafisica,and the Cyzicene, Corinthian, and Egyptian halls, have beendescribed with some degree of precision, or at least of probability.Their forms were various, their proportions just, but they wereall attended with two imperfections, very repugnant to our modernnotions of taste and conveniency. These stately rooms had*neither windows nor chimnies. They were lighted from thetop (for the building seems to have consisted of no more than onestory), and they received their heat by the help of pipes that wereconveyed along the walls. The range of principal apartments'was protected towards the south west, by a portico five hundred andseventeen feet long, which must have formed a very noble anddelightful walk, when the beauties of painting and sculpture wereadded to those of the prospect. Had this magnificent edifice remained in a solitary country, itwould have been exposed to the ravages of time ; but it might, per­haps, have escaped the rapacious industry of man. The village ofAspalathus ,10, and long afterwards the provincial town of Spalatro,have grown out of its ruins. The golden gate now opens intothe market place. St. John the Baptist has usurped the honours ofÆsculapius; and the temple of Jupiter, under the protection of theVirgin, is converted into the cathedral church. For this accountof Diocletian's palace, we are principally indebted to an ingeniousartist of our own time and country, whom a very liberal curiosity car- Decline ofried into the heart of Dalmatia But there is room to suspect that the am*the elegance of his designs and engraving has somewhat flatteredthe objects which it was their purpose to represent. We are in*-formed by a more recent and very judicious traveller, that the awful1 ruins