OCR Output 11* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. disgrace, and recover all they had lost in war. Thename and relation to the Tarquinienses, were irresistiblemotives. Besides, they piqued themselves upon the ho­nour of giving a king to Rome. Thus the armies ofthese two states put themselves under the command ofTarquin, to reinstate him on the throne, and take ven­geance on the Romans. When they entered the Roman territories, the consulswent out to meet them. Valerius led on the foot insquare battalia, and Brutus marched before with thehorse to reconnoitre the enemy. The Tarquins marchedin the same order: Aruns, Tarquin's son, advancingwith the horse, and Tarquin himself following with thelegions. Aruns, by the lictors, knewnt was one of the.consuls who was advancing against him, when at a dis­tance: but upon a nearer approach, he discovered byhis face, that it was certainly Brutus. Then boilingwith indignation, "There," says he, " is the man,"who hath banished and expelled us our country; see"him, how he rides in state, proud in the ensigns of"our dignity. Ye gods, avengers of injured kings,"assist me now."—With this, he put spurs to his horse,and drove against the consul with all his force. Brutussaw his aim; and, as in those days it was reckoned a pieceof gallantry in the generals to open the battle, by en­gaging in single combat, at the head of their armies,he met him with equal ardour. They rushed againsteach other with inveterate fury, insomuch, that neithercaring how much his own person was exposed, could heonly wound his adversary, they both tumbled from theirhorses at the same instant lifeless, to the ground, pinnedtogether by their lauce^ which being pushed in oppositedirections, had transfixed them through their shields. At the same time, the battle with the horse becamegeneral, nor was it long before the foot came up ; oftenwas the victory lost and won, and in the end very doubt­ful. The right of both armies carried all before them,while the left of both was defeated. The Vejentes, ac­customed to be beat by the Roman?, were routed andput to flight. The Tarquinienses, a new enemy, notonly stood their ground, but where they fought, obligedthe Romans to give way.