OCR Output NAPATA. NARAGGERA. 397 «r«r, generally placed at the E. extremity of thatgieat bend of the Nile, which skirts the desert of Ba-kkmda [NlbaeJ, and near Mount Birkel (GeM-et-Btrket), a site which answers nearly to the descrip­tion of Napata, in Pliny (/. c). Napata was thefarthest point S. beyond Egypt, whither the arms ofRome penetrated, and it was taken and plundered byPetronius, the lieutenant of Augustus, in 11. c. 22.(Dion Cass. liv. 5.) Nor does Napata seem ever tohave recovered its earlier greatness; for Nero's sur­veyors found only an inconsiderable town there, andafterwards all traces of this city vanish. The govern­ment of Napata, like that of Meroe, was often com­mitted to the hands of women, who bore the title ofCandace (Acts of A post. viii. 27; Euseb. Hist.Eedes. ii. 1; Tzetzcs, Chiliad, iii. r. 885); and in thekingdom of Schendy, Burckbardt found in the presentcentury a similar regimen. Napata, if not a colony,was probably at one time among the dependencies ofMeroe. The government and religion were thewine in both; and from tbe monuments discoveredin either, both seem to have been in a similar stateof civilisation. If Meraice, indeed, represent theancient Napata, it seems to follow that the lattercity was the second capital of the Mesopotaniianregion of Meroe. Napata owed much of its wealth and importanceto its being the terminus of two considerable cara­van routes: —(1) One crossing the desert of Bahi-ouda; (2) The other further to the N. running fromthe city to the island Gagaudes in the Nile (Plin.tu 35), the modem Argo. (Russegger, Karte von.V&oiejt.) Although Napata was surrounded byNomade hordes, its proper population was probablyas civilised as that of Meroe, at least its wealth pre-»opposes settlement and security. Its commerceconsisted in an interchange of the products of Libyaand Arabia, and it was near enough to the marshesof the Nile to enjoy a share iu the profitable tradein ivory and hides which were obtained from, thechase of the hippopotamus and elephant. If theruins which are found near Mount Birkel representNapata, the city can have been second only to thegolden city of the Aethiopians, Meroe itself. (Dio-dor. liii. 6.) On the western bank of the Nile arefound two temples and a considerable necropolis.Tbe former were dedicated to Osiris and Ammon;and the sculptures respresenting the Ammonian and(Hirian worship, are inferior in execution and designto none of the Nubian monuments. Avenues ofsphinxes lead up to the Ammonium, which exhihits inits ruins the plan of the great temples of Aegypt.On tbe walls of the Osirian temple, which Calli-aud {L'liU de Meroe) calls a Typhonium, are re­presented Ammon-IU and his usual attendants.Tbe intaglios exhibit Ammon or Osiris receivinggifts of fruit, cattle, and other articles, or offeringsacrifice; strings of captives taken in war arekneeling before their conqueror. On the gatewayleading to the court of the necropolis, Osiris wascarved in the act of receiving gifts as lord of thelower world. The pyramids themselves are of con­siderable magnitude; but having been built of thesandstoae of Mount Birkel, have suffered greatlyfr>m the periodical rains, and have been still moreinjured by man. Among the ruins, which probably cover the siteof the ancient Napata are two lions of red granite,<** bearing the name of Amuneph III. the other ofAmunttionch. They were brought to England byLord Prudhoc, and now stand at the entrance to the Gallery of Antiquities in the British Museum.The style and execution of theso figures belong tothe most perfect period of Aepyptian art, the xviiithdynasty of the Pharaohs. Whether these lions oncemarked the southern limit of the dominions ofAegypt, or whether they were trophies broughtfrom Aegypt, by its Aethjopian conquerors, cannotbe determined. (Hoskins, Travel*, pp. 161. 288;Calliaud, L'hle de Meroe; Transact, of Royal Soc.Lit. 2nd Ser. vol. i. p. 54.) [\V. B. D.] NAPETI'NUS SINUS (o NamjTirai koAitos)was the name given by some writers to the gulf onthe W. coast of Bruttium more commonly known asthe Terinaeus Sinus, and now called the Gulf of St.Eufemia. We have no account of the origin of thename, which is cited from Antiochus of Syracuseboth by Strabo and Dionysius. (Strab. vi. p. 255;Dionys. i. 35.) Aristotle calls the same gulf theLametine Gulf (o Aan-nrtvos koAtov, Arist. Pul.vii. 10), from a town of the name of Lametium orLametini; and in like manner it has been generallyassumed that there was a town of the name of Nape-tium, situated on its shores. But we have no otherevidence of this; an inscription, which has beenfrequently cited to show that there existed a town ofthe name as late as the time of Trajan, is almostcertainly spurious. (Mommsen, Inter. Regn. Neap.App. No. 936.) [E. H. B.] NAPHTALI. [Palaestina.]NAPOCA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 744, b.]NAR (6 Nap, Strab.: Aera), a considerable riverof Central Italy, and one of the principal tributariesof the Tiber. It rises in the lofty group of theApennines known as the MoiUl della Sibilla (theMons Kiscellus of Pliny), on the confines of Um-bria and Piccnum, from whence it has a courso ofabout 40 miles to its confluence with the Tiber,which it enters 5 miles above Ocriculum, afterflowing under the walls of Interamna and Narnia.(Strab. v. pp. 227, 235; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Lucan.i. 475; Vib. Seq. p. 15.) About 5 miles above theformer city, it receives the tributary stream of theVelinus; a river as large as itself, and whichbrings down the accumulated waters of the LacusVelini, with those of the valleys that open out atRcate. The Nar and Velinus together thus drain thewhole western declivity of the Central Apenninesthrough a space of above 60 miles. The Nar isremarkable for its white and sulphureous waters,which are alluded to by Enuius and Virgil as wellas Pliny. (Ennius, Ann. vii. Fr. 19; Virg. Aen.vii. 517; Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It is singular thatthe last writer has confounded the Nar with theVelinus, and speaks of die former as draining theLacus Velini, into which it falls near Rcatc. BothCicero and Tacitus, on the contrary, correctly repre­sent the waters of the lake as carried off into theNar, which is now effected by an artificial cutforming the celebrated Caxcade of the Velino, orFalls of Terni. This channel was first opened byM'. Curius, about n. c. 272. but there must alwayshave been some natural outlet for the waters of theVelino. (Plin. /. a; Cic. ad AM. iv. 15; Tac.Ann. i. 79.) The Nar was reckoned in ancienttimes navigable for smali vessels; and Tacitusspeaks of Piso, the murderer of Gennanicus, asembarking at Narnia, and descending from thuireby tiie Nar and the Til*r to Rome. (Tac. Ann,iii. 9: Strab. v. p. 227.) [E. H. B.] NARAGGEliA, a town of Numidia, near whichP. Cornelius Ssipio pitched his camp, and had an