OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 73 stiH enjoy, under their Turkish masters, a free religion,and a mitigated servitude. Their domestic governorsare chosen among the ancient nobility; the patriarch,in his monastery of Canobin, still fancies himself on thethrone of Antioch; nine bishops compose his synod,and one hundred and fifty priests, who retain the li­berty of marriage, are intrusted with the care of onehundred thousand souls. Their country extends fromthe ridge of mount Libanus to the shores of Tripoli;and the gradual descent affords, in a narrow space,each variety of soil and climate, from the Holy Cedars,erect under the weight of snow," to the vine, the mul­berry, and the olive trees of the fruitful valley. In thetwelfth century, the Maronites, abjuring the Monothe-lite error, were reconciled to the Latin churches of An-tioeh and Rome/ and the same alliance has been fre^quently renewed by the ambition of the popes and thedistress of the Syrians. But it may reasonably bequestioned, whether their union has ever been perfector sincere; and the learned Maronites of the college ofRome have vainly laboured to absolve their ancestorsfrom the guilt of heresy and schism/iv. THE IV. Since the age of Cohstantine, the AR- ABMB- . ° * MENiANs'had signalized their attachment to XIAH8. 1 In tin- last century twenty large cedars still remained, (Voyage de laRoque,torn. 1. p. <.!!—76.) at present they are reduced to four or five. (Volney, ton. 1.p. 264.) These trees so famous in Scripture, were guarded by excommunication;the woo/d was sparingly borrowed for small crosses, etc. an annual mass was chan­ted under their shade; and they were endowed by tho Syrians with a sensitivepaver of erecting their branches to repel the (now, to which Mount Libanus is leufaithful than it is painted by Tacitus; inter ardores opacum fidumque nivibus—adaring metaphor! (Hist. 5. 6.) > The evidence of William of Tyre (Hiet. in Gestis Dai per Francos, lib. 2g. c.8. p. 1022.) is copied or confirmed by Jacques de Vitra. (Hist. Hierosolyrn. lib. 2.c. 17. p. 1093,1094.) But this unnatural league expired with the power of theFcanks; and Abulpharagius, (who died in 1386) considers the Maronitea as a sectof Monothelites. (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 292.) * I find a description and history of the Maronites in the Voyage de la Syrie ettin Mont Liban par la Roque. (2 vols. in 1 '.'mo. Amsterdam, 1723, particularly torn.1. p. 42—47. p. 174—184. torn. 2. p. 10—120.) In the ancient part, he copiesthe prejudices of Nairon and the other Maronites at Rome, which Assemannus isafraid to renounce, and ashamed to support , Jablonski, (Institut. Hist. Christ,torn. 3. p. 186.) Niebuhr, (Voyaga de 1'Arabic, &c. torn. t. p. 346. 370—3il.)aad, above all, the judicious Volney, (Voyage en Egypte et en Syrie, torn. ft. p.8—31. Paris. 1787.) may be consulted. "The religion of the Armenians is briefly described by La Croze. (Hut , du