OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 241 cated with a foolish pride, that his birth had given him the command of millions^of whom the smallest community would not have chosen him for their local ma­gistrate. His favourite ministers were two beings the least susceptible of humansympathy; a eunuch and a monk: to the one he abandoned the palace, to the otherthe finances; the former corrected the emperor's mother with a scourge, the lat­ter suspended the insolvent tributaries, with their heads downward?, over a slowand smoky fire. Since the days of Commodus and Caracalla, the cruelty of theRoman princes had most commonly been the effect of their fear; but Justinian,who possessed some vigour of character, enjoyed the sufferings, and braved therevenge, of his subjects about ten years, till the measure was full of his crimesand of their patience. In a dark dungeon, Leontius, a general of reputation, hadgroaned above three years with some of the noblest and most deserving of the pa­tricians: he was suddenly drawn forth to assume the government of Greece; andthis promotion of an injured man was a mark of the contempt rather than of theconfidence of his prince. As he was followed to the port by the kind offices ofhis friends, Leontius observed, with a sigh, that he was a victim adorned for sa­crifice, and that inevitable death would pursue his footsteps. They ventured toreply, that glory and empire might be the recompense of a generous resolution; thatevery order of men abhorred the reign of a monster; and that the hands of twohundred thousand patriots expected only the voice of a leader. The night waschosen for their deliverance; and in the first effort of the conspirators, the prefectwas slain; and the prisons were forced open: the emissaries'of Leontius proclaimedin every street,—Christians! to St. Sofihia: and the seasonable text of the patri­arch, This is the day of the Lord! was the prelude of an inflammatory sermon.From the church the people adjourned to the hippodrome: Justinian, in whosecause not a sword had been drawn, was dragged before these tumultuary judges,and their clamours demanded the instant death of the tyrant. But Leontius, whowas already clothed with the purple, cast an eye of pity on the prostrate son ofhis own benefactor and of so many emperors. The life of Justinian was spared;the amputation of his nose, perhaps of his tongue, was imperfectly performed: thehappy flexibility of the Greek language could impose the name of Rhinotmetus;and the mutilated tyrant was banished to Chersonse in Crim-Tartary, a lonelysettlement, where corn, wine, and oil, were imported as foreign luxuries. On the edge of the Scythian wilderness, Justinian still cherished the pride of hisbirth and the hope of his restoration. After three years' exile, he received thepleasing intelligence that his injury was avenged by a second revolution, and thatLeontius in his turn had been dethroned and mutilated by the rebel Apsimar, whoassumed the more respectable name of Tiberius. But the claim of lineal suc­cession was still formidable to a plebeian usurper, and his jealousy was stimulatedby the complaints and charges of the Chersonites, who beheld the vices of the ty­rant in the spirit of the exile. With a band of followers, attached to his personby common hope or common despair, Justinian fled from the inhospitable shoreto the horde of the Chozars, who pitched their tents between the Tanais and Bo-rysthenes. The khan entertained with pity and respect the royal suppliant: Phana-goria, once an opulent city, on the Asiatic side of the lake Moeotis, was assignedfor his residence; and every Roman prejudice was stifled in his marriage with thesister of the barbarian, who seems, however, from the name of Theodora, tohave received the sacrament of baptism. But the faithless Chozar was soontempted by the gold of Constantinople; and had not the design been revealed bythe conjugal love of Theodora, her husband must have been assassinated, or be­trayed into the power of his enemies. After strangling, with his own hands, thetwo emissaries of the khan, Justinian sent back his wife to her brother, and em­barked on the Euxine in search of new and more faithful allies. His vessel wasassaulted by a violent tempest; and one of his pious companions advised him todeserve the mercy of God by a vow of general forgiveness, if he should be re­stored to the throne. " Of forgiveness (replied the intrepid tyrant ?) may I pe­rish this instant—may the Almighty whelm me in the waves—if I consent to sparea single head of my enemies!" He survived this impious menace, sailed into themouth of the Danube, trusted his person in the royal village of the Bulgarians,and purchased the aid of Terbelis, a pagan conqueror, by the promise of hisdaughter, and a fair partition of the treasures of the empire. The Bulgariankingdom extended to the confines of Thrace; and the two princes besieged Con­stantinople at the head of fifteen thousand horse. Apsimar was dismayed by thesudden and hostile apparition of his rival, whose head had been promised by the Vox,, nr. n