OCR Output CHAP, ISi ROMAN HISTORY. • 229 <t cing their zeal and attachment to so powerful a neigh-'" bouring city." They cheerfully consented to send'them assistance, and their youth were immediately mus­tered nnd armed. They reached Rome early next morning, and at a dis­tance were taken tor the jfequi and Volsci, coming a-- gainst them. When they were convinced of their mis­take, they received them mto the city, where the}Tmarch-ed in a body to the (arum and joined Valerius, alreadydrawing up his troops, having left the guard of the gatesto his colleague. • • The character of Valerius had great weight with thepeople, when he assured them, " That whenever the oa-"pitol should be recovered, and the tranquillity of the"city restored, if they would permit him then to in-"form them of the artful, self-interested views, con-"cealed under-the specious law-in question, he would"neither be forgetful of his ancestors, nor his sirname,"entailed upon him by his progenitors, as an hereditary~" obligation to support the interest of the people, and"for his own part, would give no .interruption to their•' assemblies." Accordingly they followed him, in spiteof all the tribunes could urge, and gained the declivityof the Capitoline-hill, in conjunction with the Tusculanauxiliaries. Here a noble emulation of being foremost in thecharge, animated the Romans and allies. They wereencouraged by their leaders on both sides. The enemythen began to be afraid, having no other resource, hutin the strength of the place. The epnfederates took ad­vantage of their disorder, and 'charged them briskly, andhad already broke mto the -porch of the temple, whenP. Valerius, who fought at the head of his troops, waskilled. P. Volumnius, a con'sul.ar gentleman, saw himfall, and ordering his men to cover his body, fiewto take-bis place. The ardour and fury with which they fought,kept them insensible of the melancholy eveut: so thatthey had gained the victory before they perceived thatthey had fought without a general. The temple waspolluted with the blood of many of the exiles, manywere takjen alive; but Herdonius himself was among theslain. Thus then was the capitol recovered. The pri-•. -'