OCR Output ROMA. 791 \ fcrthf for.finti.ilion tint the new curia stooda tit ancient spot is found in the fact that down to■ ■ litest period of the Empire that spot continued to • toe site of the senate-house. The last time thatia nude of the Curia Julia is in the reign of(* Consensu (senatus) nt consules non in j i .1 . x al'.itnr. mM in C;tpitc.lium C'Oll- 'snat,* Sott. CaL 60); and as we know that thesna was rebuilt by Domitian, the Julia must hare-s burnt down either in the fire of Nero, or moretr-Mj in that which occurred nnder Titus. It is< itery, as Becker supposes (Handb. p. 347), that-puus and Titus would have suffered an old■I important building like the curia to lie inasi whilst they were erecting their new amphi-esire and baths. The new structure of Domitian,t--.. Snsanar in the later Latin (" Senatum dici et • toco ft pro bominibus," Gell. xviii. 7, S), is men­ses' by several authorities (Hieronym. an. 92. i.443. ad. Rone; Caasiod. CMron. iL; 197; Catal.f. ITeaa. p. -J i.l. i The place of this seuatus :: - : from its being close tofhe little templeJans Geminns, the index belli pecisque (« vk(• lores) ir rp iyopa wpb rovProcop. B. G. i. 25); and hence from;*-.timity to Numa's sarelluin it was sometimesni • Carta Pompiliana" (Vopisc. Aurel. 41,id 3.) The aatne situation is confirmed by othertsa. Thus Dion Cassius mentions that Didiusansa, when he first entered the curia as emperor,taVwd ta the Janus which stood before the doorsns. IS). In the same manner we find it men-si ia the Sotitia in the viiith Region. That itipssd thai sit* of the ancient church of S. Mar- I - i- t!y iKiikitM tu and now known asara ess* to the arch of Scverus, appears fromasrriativo (Gruter, clxx. 5) which formerly■K in the Ambo, or hemicycle, of 5. Martina,rap that this hemicycle, which was afterwardsthe church, originally formed the Secre-si Srnatns (Urlichs, Horn. Top. p. 37, scq.;sr, Rufiumem, p. 142.) The Janus templei as have been known in the middle ages nn-apprlLstioa of tempbim fatale, by which it isarsed ia the Mfirabilia Vrbis. (" Juxta cumtsos tatals in & Martina, juxta quod est tem-rrfaxli, L e., S. Adrianus," lb.) In the same> rtsoud was a place called in the later agesPaiaaam," which also connects the senatusrkst apot, as being both near to that place and • Arena Sereri. Thus Ammianus: "Deindeau nrbem Tbeodoricus, venit ad Senatum, etifssas popolo allnquutus," &c {Kxcerpl.deu» i And in the .It-M SX, Mni. vii. p. 12:nwrust ri rjnvntaa a tergo et decollarerunt extraJra et extrsJientes jactaverunt eum juxta •vmnrphi ad PaJroam." (cf. Anastas. V. Si/1, c.The appellation "ad Pi I mam " was derived.'.star of Claudius II. clothed in the tunicaa which stood here: "Illi totius orbis judiciofrfjew. east columns cum palmata status(Treb. Pollio, Claud, c. 2.) doubt, therefore, that the curia ori faoslt by Domitian was near the arch oft arkgeb ia indeed admitted by Becker him-i pt 35."> y. But, from his having takenof the situation of the comitium, hetain that this was altogether ahence his curia undergoes nochanges of situation, receiving aevery time that it was rebuilt, namely, first, on the N. side of his comitium,secondly on the S. side, and thirdly near theArcus Severi, for which last site the evidence istoo overwhelming to be rejected. We trust thstour view is more consistent, in which the senate-house, as was most probable, appears to have alwaysretained its original position. And this result wetake to be no slight confirmation of tho correctnessof the site which we have assigned to the comitium.In their multitudinous variations, Bunsen and BecktTare sore puzzled to find a place for their secondcuria—the Julia—on their comitium, to which thepassages before cited from Pliny and Dion inevi­tably fix them. Bunsen's strange notions have beensufficiently refuted by Becker {Handb. p. 333), andwe need not therefore examine them here. Butthough Becker has succeeded in overthrowing thehypothesis of his predecessor, he has not been ableto establish one of his own in its place. In fact hegives it up. Thus he says (p. 335) that, in theabsence of all adequate authority, he will not ven­ture to fix the site of the curia ; yet ho thinks itprobable that it may have stood where the threecolumns are; or if that will not answer, then itmust be placed on the (his) Vulcanal. Bnt hiscomplaint of the want of authorities is unfounded.If he had correctly interpreted them, and placed thecomitium in its right situation, and if he had givendue credit to an author like Dion Cassius when hesays (I.c.) that it was determined to rebuild the Cu­ria Hostilia, he had not needed to go about seekingfor impossible places on which to put his Curia Julia-There are three other objects near the forum intowhich, from their close connection with the BasilicaJulia, we must inquire at the same time. These arethe Chalcidicim, the I.mj'Khiai. Grakcostasis,and a Temple of Minerva. We have already 6eenthat the first of these buildings is recorded in the Mo-mtmentum Aneyranum as erected by Augustus ad­joining the curia; and the same edifice is alsomentioned by Dion Cassius among the works ofAugustus: t6 rt }A6^vatoy «ral to XaAfciSi/rovwvoLiatrutvuv, Kal TO f&ovKtirrfipiov, rh 'louKittov, toinl rov Ttarpbf airrov riLiij ytySfitvov, KaBUpwat*(li. 22). But regarding what manner of thing theChalcidicum was, there is a great diversity ofopinion. It is one of those names which have neverbeen sufficiently explained; but it was |«rhaps asort of portico, or covered walk (deambulatorium),annexed to the curia. Bunsen, as we have men­tioned when treating of the temple of Castor in thepreceding section, considers the Athenaeum andChalcidicum to have been identical; and as theNutitia mentions an Atrium Minervae in the 8thRegion, and as a Minerva Chalcidica is recordedamong tho buildings of Domitian, he assumes thatthese were tho same, and that the unlucky ruin ofthe three columns, which has been so transmuted bythe topographers, belonged to it. In all which wecan only wonder at the uncritical spirit that couldhave suggested such an idea; for in the first placethe Monumenlum Ancyranuvi very distinctly sepa­rates the aedes Minervae, built by Augustus, fromthe Chalcidicum, by mentioning it at a distance offive lines apart; secondly, the aedes Minervae isrepresented to be on the Aventine, where we findone mentioned in the Xotitia (cf. Ov. Fast, vu 728;Festus, v. Q'tintjuatnu, p. 257, Miill.), and conse­quently a long way from the curia and its ad­joining Chalcidicum; thirdly, they are also men­tioned separately by Dion Cassius in the passage 3b 4