OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. finement, and perhaps of his death. Alarmed by thehasty intrusion and bold reproaches of the captive, Hor-mouz looked round, but in vain, for advice or assistance;discovered that his strength consisted in the obedienceof others, and patiently yielded to the sirigle arm of Bin-does, who dragged him from the throne to the samedungeon in which he himself had been so lately confined.At the first tumult, Chosroes, the eldest of the sons ofHormouz, escaped from the city; he'was persuaded toreturn by the pressing and friendly invitation of Bindoes,-who promised to seat him on his father's throne, andwho expected to reign under the name of an inexpe­rienced youth. In the just assurance, that his accom­plices could neither forgive nor hope to be forgiven, andthat every Persian might be trusted as the judge' andenemy of the tyrant, he instituted a public trial withouta precedent and without a copy in the annals of the east.The sonofNushirvan, who had requested to plead in hisown defence, was introduced as a criminal into the fullassembly of the nobles and satraps." He was heard withdecent attention as long as he expatiated on the advan­tages of order and obedience, the danger of innovation,and the inevitable discord of those who had encouragedeach other to trample on their lawful and hereditary sove­reign. By a pathetic appeal to their humanity, he ex­torted that pity which is seldom refused to the fallen for­tunes of a king; and while they beheld the abject pos­ture and squalid appearance of the prisoner, his tears, hischains, and the marks of ignominious stripes, it was im­possible to forget how recently they had adored the divinesplendour of his diadem and purple. But an angry mur­mur arose in the assembly as soon as he presumed to vin­dicate his conduct, and to applaud the victories of hisreign. He defined the duties of a king, and the Persiannobles listened with a smile of contempt; they were fired » The orientals suppose that Bahram convened this assembly and proclaimedChosroes; but Theopbylact is, in this instance, more distinct and credible.