OCR Output decline and fall [chap. XL- laws, and the legacies of the deceased friends, on thephilosophic chairs of Athens. Epicurus bequeathed tohis disciples the gardens which he had purchased foreighty minae, or two hundred and fifty pounds, with afund sufficient for their frugal subsistence and monthlyfestivals ;h and the patrimony of Plato afforded an annualrent, which, in eight centuries, was gradually increasedfrom three to One thousand pieces of gold.' The schoolsof Athens were protected by the wisest and most virtuousof the Roman princes. The library, which Hadrianfounded, was placed in a portico, adorned with pictures,statues, and a roof of alabaster, and supported by onehundred columns of Phrygian marble. The public sa­laries were assigned by the generous spirit of the Anto-nines; and each professor, of politics, of rhetoric, of thePlatonic, the Peripatetic, the Stoic, and the Epicureanphilosophy, received an annual stipend of ten thousanddrachmae, or more than three hundred pounds sterling.11After the death of Marcus, these liberal donations, and theprivileges attached to the thrones of science, were abo­lished and revived, diminished and enlarged: but somevestige of royal bounty may be found under the success­ors of Constantine; and their arbitrary choice of anunworthy candidate might tempt the philosophers ofAthens to regret the days of independence and poverty.1It is remarkable, that the impartial favour of the Anto-nines was bestowed on the four adverse sects of philoso­phy, which they considered as equally useful, or at leastas equally innocent. Socrates had formerly been theglory and the reproach of his country; and the first les- b See the testament of Epicurus inDiogen. Laert. lib. 10. segm. 16—20. p. 611,612. A single epistle (ad Familiarcs, 13.1.) displays the injustice of the Areopagus,the fidelity of the Epicureans, the dexterous politeness of Cicero, and the mixture ofcontempt and esteem with which the Roman senators considered the philosopby andphilosophers of Greece. 1 Damascius, in Vit. Isidor. apud Photium, cod. 242. p. 1054. k See Lncian (in Eunech. tom. 2. p. 350—359. edit. Reitz); Philostratus (in Vit.Sophist. lib. 2. c. 2.), and Dion Cassius, or Xiphilin, (lib. 71. p. 1195.) with theireditors Du Soul, Olearius, and Reimar, and, above all, Salmasius (ad Hist. August.p. 72.) A judicious philosopher, (Smith's Weallh of Nations, vol. 2. p. 340—374.)prefers the free-contributions of the students toa lixed stipend forlhe professor. 1 Brncker, Hist. Ciit. 1'hilosoph. tom. 2. p. 310, &c.