OCR Output FIRST V OLUMg. Pxige 129. And Latona."] 1 she following admirable accountof Latona, from the MSS. £c holla of Proclus on the Cratylus,cannot fall of being highly a jceptsbje to the Platonic reader."Latona is a vivlfic fountain c ompreberded in Ceres: andhence,according to ihc Grecian rites, fh-is wcrjl .fpcd as tlx fame withCeres, these rites evincing by this, the union of the goddesses.Eut this goddess enrta the win lie of vivisic light, ilhimtuating theintellectual essences of the g< ;ds, and the orders of fouls: andlastly, (he illuminates the v,!*jI e ft. risible heaven, generating mun­dane light, and establishing tlu cause of this light in her offspring,Apollo and Diana; and ca"i js all things to glitter with intellec­tual and vivific light. S!i« imparts likewise to fouls the con­summation of virtue, and an illumination which leads them,back to the intellectual pe t of their father*, hastily withdraw­ing them from the windin; - paths of matter's-, the entangle­ments of vice, and the ro' in I ness of the passage over the sea ofgeneration. It appears to me indeed, that thcologifts consider­ing this, denominated her d Latona, on account of her ex­tending to foals fmootbnefi of manners, a voluntary life, anddivine gentleness and cafe. I '>r to such as raise themselves toher divinity, (he imparts an iru ssable energy, a blameless life,gentleness of manners, serenit y, and intellectual tranquillity.Whether therefore (lie is called. Leto, from a voluntary life; forXv signifies vo Gmlopai I um it'll 'tig} or from to Jkiif, the smooth,her name will perfectly evince th ough both these, the powerswhich (lie possefils. For the con ipellc d energies of the foul takeplace through material rougline£ >, ai d the obliquity of a life ingeneration diminishes the foulvoluntary lift. But an ascentto the gods imparts a smooth anc gentle, instead of a hard andrough, and a voluntary, instead < >f a compelled life. Why then is it necessary to cal 1, as fume do, Latona matter,as capable of being eaiily turned, and subsisting as an express* i. e. Jupiter. f Of these winding paths the Dedi 'lean labyrinth is nn imsjr. resemblance 1