OCR Output AN. 140.] 475 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. count of Trypho; Cleopatra sent to him, andinvited him to marry her, and to take thekingdom. The reasons why she made thisinvitation, were, that her friends persuadedher to it; and that she was afraid for herself,in case some of the people of Seleucia shoulddeliver up the city to Trypho. As Antiochus was now come to Seleucia,and his forces increased every day, hemarched to fight Trypho; and having de­feated him, he ejected him out of the UpperSyria into Phoenicia; and pursued him thi­ther, and besieged him in Dora; which wasa fortress hard to be taken, whither he hadfled. He also sent ambassadors to Simon,the Jewish high-priest, about a league offriendship and mutual assistance. Who rea­dily accepted of the invitation; and sent toAntiochus great suras of money; and pro­visions, for those that besieged Dora; andthereby supplied them very plentifully. Sothat for a little while he was looked upon asone of his most intimate friends. But stillTrypho fled from Dora to *Apamia; wherehe was taken during the siege, and put todeath; when he had reigned fthree years. However, Antiochus forgot the kind assist­ance that Simon had afforded him in his ne­cessity; by reason of his covetous and wickeddisposition; and committed an army of sol­diers to his friend Cendebeus; and sent himat once to ravage Judea, and to sieze Simon.When Simon heard of Antiochus's breakinghis league with him, although he were nowin years, yet, provoked with the unjust treat­ment he had met with from Antiochus, andtaking a resolution brisker than his age couldwell bear, he went like a young man to actas general of his army. He also sent hissons before, among the most hardy of hissoldiers; and he himself marched on withhis army another way; and laid many of hismen in ambushes, in the narrow valleys, be­tween the mountains. Nor did he fail of suc­cess in any one of his attempts; but was toohard for his enemies in every one of them. So he led the rest of his life in peace; andalso made a league with the Romans. Now he was the ruler of the Jews in allJcight years: but his death was at lengthcaused at a banquet by the treachery of hisson-in-law, Ptolemy; who caught also hiswife and two of his sons, and kept them inbonds. He also sent some to kill John, thethird son; whose name was Hyrcanus. Butthe young man, perceiving them coming,||avoided the danger he was in, and hastenedinto the city Jerusalem; as relying on thegood will of the multitude; because of thebenefits they had received from his father,and because of the hatred the same multitudebore to Ptolemy. So that when Ptolemy wasendeavouring to enter the city by anothergate, they drove him away; as having alreadyadmitted Hyrcanus. CHAP. VIII. HYRCANUS RECEIVES THE HIGH-PRIESTHOOD, AND EJECTSPTOLEMY OUT OF THE COUNTRY. ANTIOCHUS MAKESWAR AGAINST HYRCANUS, AND AFTERWARD MAKES ALEAGUE WITH HIM. PTOLEMY§ retired to one of the for­tresses that was above Jericho, whichwas called Dagon. But Hyrcanus took thehigh-priesthood, that had been his father'sbefore, and propitiated God by sacrifices; hethen made an expedition against Ptolemy;and when he made his attacks upon theplace, in other points he was too hard forhim; but was rendered weaker than he bythe commiseration he had for his motherand brethren; and by that only. For Ptolemybrought them upon the wall, and tormentedthem in the sight of all, and threatened thathe would throw them down headlong, unlessHyrcanus would raise the siege. And as hethought that so far as he relaxed as to thesiege and taking of the place, so much favourdid he shew to those that were dearest tohim, by preventing their misery; his zealabout it was cooled. However, his mother * Orthosia, 1 Mace. xv. 37. t An. 142, 141, 140, B. C. J From an. 143 to an. 135 B. C. II Here Josephus begins to follow, and to abridge thenext sacred Hebrew book, styled in the end of the firstbook of Maccabees, The Chronicles of John Hyrcanus'sHigh-Priesthood; but in some of the Greek copies thefourth book of Maccabees. A Greek version of this chro- voL. I.—xos. 39 & 40. nicle was extant in the days of Santes Pagninus, andSixtus Senensis, at Lyons; though it seems to have beenthere burnt, and to be now utterly lost. See Sixtus Se-nensis's account of it, of its many Hebraisms, and its greatagreement with Josephus's abridgment; in the AuthenticRecords, part I. page 206, 207, 208.§ An. 136. 1G