OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. A citizen could only forfeit his rights by apparentxxxvn- dereliction, and such dereliction of a valuable interestcould not easily be presumed. Yet, according to thetwelve tables, a prescription of one year for move­ables, and of two years for immoveables, abolishedthe claim of the ancient master, if the actual possessorhad acquired them by a fair transaction from the per­son whom he believed to be the lawful proprietor.Such conscientious injustice, without any mixture offraud or force, could seldom injure the members of asmall republic; but the various periods of three, often, or of twenty years, determined by Justinian, aremore suitable to the latitude of a great empire. Itis only in the term of prescription that the distinctionof real and personal fortune has been remarked bythe civilians, and their general idea of property isthat of simple, uniform, and absolute dominion. Thesubordinate exceptions of use, of usufruct *, of ser­vitudes]; imposed for the benefit of a neighbour onlands and houses, are abundantly explained by theprofessors of jurisprudence. The claims of property,as far as they are altered, by the mixture, the division,or the transformation of substances, are investigatedwith metaphysical subtlety by the same civilians,of inherit- The personal title of the first proprietor must bedetermined by his death: but the possession, withoutany appearance of change, is peaceably continued inhis children, the associates of his toil and the partnersof his wealth. This natural inheritance has beenprotected by the legislators of every climate and age,and the father is encouraged to persevere in slow anddistant improvements, by the tender hope, that a longposterity will enjoy the fruits of his labour. Theprinciple of hereditary succession is universal, but the * See the Institutes (1. i. tit. iv. v.), and the Pandects (1. vii). Noodt has com­posed a learned and distinct treatise de Umfruclu (Opp. tom. i. p. 387—478). + The questions de Servitutiinis are discussed in the Institutes (1. ii. tit. iii. Vand Pandects (1. viii.). ance andsuccession