OCR Output 128 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the land of Canaan. Since when you shallhave once proceeded so far by your wealthas to a contempt and disregard of virtue, youwill also forfeit the favour of God; and whenyou-have made him your enemy, you will bebeaten in war; and will have the land whichyou possess taken away again from you byyour enemies: and this with great reproachesupon your conduct. You will be scatteredover the whole world; and will, as slaves,entirely fill both sea and land, and when onceyou have had the experience of what I nowsay, you will repent, and remember the lawsyou have broken, when it is too late. Whencef would advise you, if you intend to preservethese laws, to leave none of your enemiesalive, when you have conquered them; but tolook upon it as for your advantage to destroythem all; lest if you permit them to live, youimbibe their manners, and thereby corruptyour own proper institutions. I also fartherexhort you, to overthrow their altars, and theirgroves, and whatsoever temples they haveamong them; and to burn all such their na­tion and their very memory with fire. Forby this means alone the safety of your ownhappy constitution can be firmly secured toyou. And in order to prevent your ignoranceof virtue, and the degeneracy of your natureinto vice, I have also ordained you laws bydivine suggestion, and a form of government;which are so good, that if you regularly ob­serve them, you will be esteemed of all menmost happy." When he had spoken thus, he gave themthe laws and the constitution of governmentwritten in a book. Upon which the peoplefell into tears, and appeared already touchedwith the sense that they should have a greatwant of their conductor; because they re­membered what a number of dangers he hadpassed through, and what care he had takenfor their preservation; they desponded aboutwhat would come upon them after he wasdead; supposing they should never haveanother governor like him; and fearing thatGod would take less care of them when Mo­ses was gone, who used to intercede for them.They also repented of what they had said tohim in the wilderness, when they were angry;and so were in grief on those accounts. Sothat the whole body of the people fell intotears with such bitterness, that it was past the power of words to comfort them in their afflic­tion. However, Moses gave them some con­solation; and by calling them off the thoughthow worthy he was of their weeping for him,he exhorted them to adhere to that formof government he had given them. Andthen the congregation was dissolved at thattime. 1 shall now first describe this form of go­vernment, which was agreeable to the dignityand virtue of Moses; and shall thereby in­form those that peruse these Antiquities whatour original settlements were, and shall thenproceed to the remaining histories. Nowthese settlements are still in writing, as heleft them; and we shall add nothing by wayof ornament, nor any thing besides what Mo­ses left us. Only we shall so far innovate,as to digest the several kinds of laws into aregular system. For they were by him leftin writing, as they were accidentally scat­tered in their delivery; and as he, upon in­quiry, had learned them of God. On which ac­count I have thought it necessary to premisethis observation; lest any of my own country­men should blame me, as having been guiltyof an offence herein. Now part of our con­stitution will include the laws that belong toour political state: but with respect to thoselaws which Moses left concerning our com­mon conversation and intercourse with oneanother, 1 have reserved that for a dis­course concerning our manner of life, andthe occasions of those laws; which I pro­pose to myself, with God's assistance, towrite, after I have finished the work I amnow upon. When you have possessed yourself of theland of Canaan, and have leisure to enjoy thegood things of it; and when you have after­ward determined to build cities, if you willdo what is pleasing to God, you will have asecure state of happiness. Let there be thenone city of the land of Canaan; and thissituate in the most agreeable place for itsgoodness, and very eminent of itself; and letit be that which God shall choose for himself,by prophetic revelation. Let there also beone temple therein, and one altar; not rearedof hewn stones, but of such as you gathertogether at random; which stones, when theyare whitened over with mortar, will have ahandsome appearance, and be beautiful to