OCR Output 208 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS. mon that persuaded them so to do, one who was both the prin­cipal man in the city, and a particular friend and companion ofJohn. It is true, these did not openly own the making a re-Tolt, because they were in great fear of the Galileans, and hadfrequent experience of the good-will they bore to me ; yet didthey privately watch for a proper opportunity to lay snares forme ; and indeed I thereby came into the greatest danger, onthe occasion following. 26. There were some bold young men of the village Da-baritta, who observed that the wife of Ptolemy, the king's pro­curator, was to make a progress over the great plain with amighty attendance, and with some horsemen that followed, as aguard to them, and this out of a country that was subject to theking and queen, into the jurisdiction of the Romans ; and fell'upon them on the sudden, and obliged the wife of Ptolemy to flyaway, and plundered all the carriages. They also came to meto Taricheae, with four mules loading of garments, and otherfurniture ; and the weight of the silver they brought was notsmall, and there were five hundred pieces of gold also. Now Ihad a mind to preserve these spoils for Ptolemy, who was mycountryman ; and it is prohibited * us by our laws even to spoilour enemies ; so I said to those that brought these spoils, thatthey ought to be kept in order to rebuild the walls of Jerusalemwith them, when they came to be sold. But the young men tookit very ill that they did not receive a part of these spoils forthemselves, as they expected to have none ; so they went amongthe villages, in the neighbourhood of Tiberias, and told thepeople, that I was going to betray their country to the Romans,and that I used deceitful language to them, when I said, thatwhat had been thus gotten by rapine should be kept for the re­building of the walls of the city of Jerusalem ; although I hadresolved to restore these spoils again to their former owner.And indeed they were herein not mistaken as to my intentions ;for when I had gotten clear of them, I sent for two of the prin­cipal men, Dassion, and Janneus the son of Levi, persons that were * How Joseplius could say here that the Jewish laws for bade them to " spoil«' even their enemies," while yet, a little before his time, our Saviour had mention­ed it as then a current maxim with them," Thou shalt love thy neighbour/and hate" thine enemy," Matt. v. 43. is worth our inquiry. 1 take it that Josephus, hav­ing been now for many years an Ebionite Christian, had learned this interpreta­tion of the law of Moses from Christ, whom he owned for the true Messiah, asit follows in the succeeding verses, which, though he might not read in St Mat­thew's gofpel, yet might he have read much the same exposition in their ownEbionite or Nazarene gospel itself; of which improvements made by Josephuj,after he was become a. Christian, we have already had several examples in tliishis life, sect. 3. M. 15. 19. 21. 23. and shall have many more therein before illconclusion, as well as we have them elsewhere in all his latter writings.