OCR Output 278 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT. did, it remaina nevertheless true that before the Parthianwars he was the only enemy who gave serious trouble to theRomans in the East, and that he defended himself againstthem as the lion of the desert defends himself against thehunter. But we are not entitled, in accordance with whatwe know, to recognize in him more than the resistance tobe expected from such a vigorous nature. But whatever judgment we may form as to the individualcharacter of the king, his historical position remains in ahigh degree significant. The Mithradatic wars formed at oncethe last movement of the political opposition offered byHellas to Rome, and the beginning of a revolt against theRoman supremacy resting on very different and far deepergrounds of'antagonism—the national reaction of the Asiaticsagainst the Occidentals. The empire of Mithradates was,like himself, Oriental; polygamy and the system of the haremprevailed at court and generally among the nobles; the reli­gion of the inhabitants of the country as well as the officialreligion of the court was pre-eminently the old nationalworship; the Hellenism there was little different from theHellenism of the Armenian Tigranidae and the ArsacidaB ofthe Parthian empire. The Greeks of Asia Minor mightimagine for a brief moment that they had found in this kinga support for their political dreams; his battles were reallyfought for matters very different from those which weredecided on the fields of Magnesia and Pydna. They formed—after a long truce—a new passage in the huge duel betweenthe West and the East, which has been transmitted fromthe struggle of Marathon to the present generation andwill perhaps reckon its future by thousands of years as ithas reckoned its past.The nation- Manifest however as is the foreign and unHellenic cha­racter of the whole life and action of the Cappadocian kintr.it is difficult to define what national element preponderatedin it, nor will research perhaps ever succeed in gettingbeyond generalities or in attaining clear views on thispoint. In the whole circle of ancient civilization there isno region where the stocks subsisting side by side or cross­ing each other were so numerous, so heterogeneous, sovariously from the remotest times intermingled, and wherein consequence the relations of the nationalities were soobscure, as in Asia Minor. The Semitic population ad­vanced from Syria in an unbroken chain to Cyprus and alitles ofAsia Minor,