OCR Output CHAP. L. 325 enthusiasm of the rising sect, that the noblest chiefsserved without reluctance under the slave of the prophet.On the event of his decease, Jaafar and Abdallah weresuccessively substituted to the command; and if thethree should perish in the war, the troops were autho­rized to elect their general. The three leaders wereslain in the battle of Muta,h the first military action whichtried the valour of the Moslems against a foreign enemy.Zeid fell, like a soldier, in the foremost ranks; the death ofJaafar was heroic and memorable; he lost his right hand;he shifted the standard to his left; the left was severedfrom his body; he embraced the standard with his bleed­ing stumps, till he was tranfixed to the ground with fiftyhonourable wounds. Advance (cried Abdallah,who steptinto the vacant place), advance with confidence; eithervictory or paradise is our own. The lance of a Romandecided the alternative; but the falling standard wasrescued by Caled, the proselyte of Mecca; nine swordswere broken in his hand; and his valour withstood and re­pulsed the superior numbers of the Christians. Inthenoc-turnal council of the camp he was chosen to command: hisskilful evolutions of the ensuing day secured either thevictory or the retreat of the Saracens: and Caled is re­nowned among his brethren and his enemies by theglorious appellation of the Sword of God. In the pulpit,Mahomet described, with prophetic rapture, the crownsof the blessed martyrs; but in private he betrayed thefeelings of human nature: he was surprised as he weptover the daughter of Zeid. What do I see? said the as­tonished votary.—You see (replied the apostle) a friendwho is deploring the loss of his most faithful friend. Afterthe conquest of Mecca, the sovereign of Arabia affectedto prevent the hostile preparations of Heraclius; and so­lemnly proclaimed war against the Romans, without at­tempting to disguise the hardhips and dangers of the en- "For the battle of Muta, and its consequences, see Abulfeda (p. 100—101.) andGagnier. (torn. 1. p. 3J7—313.) KaXiJi; (says Theophanes) « XiyouTi f*a£iiilai T«i 0MV.