OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 213 Marius necessarily produced among its promoters. While and the de-the decisive proposals were brought forward by his associates magognes.and carried after a struggle by his soldiers, Marius main­tained an attitude wholly passive, as if the political leaderwas not bound quite as much as the military, when the bruntof battle came, to present himself everywhere and foremostin person. Nor was this all; he was terrified at, and fledfrom the presence of, the spirits which he had himself evoked.When his associates resorted to expedients which an honour­able man could not approve, but without which in fact theobject of their efforts could not be attained, he attempted, inthe fashion usual with men whose politico-moral ideas are con­fused, to wash his hands of participation in those crimes andat the same time to profit by their results. There is a story,that the general once conducted secret negotiations in twodifferent apartments of his house, with Saturninus and hispartisans in the one, and with the deputies of the oligarchym the other, talking with the former of striking a blowagainst the senate, and with the latter of interfering againstthe revolt, and that under a pretext, which correspondedto the anxiety of the situation, he went to and fro betweenthe two conferences—a story as certainly invented, and ascertainly appropriate, as any incident in Aristophanes. Theambiguous attitude of Marius became notorious in the ques­tion of the oath. At first he seemed as though he wouldhimself refuse the oath required by the Appuleian laws onaccount of the informalities that had occurred at theirpassing, and then swore it with the reservation, "so far asthe laws were really valid;" a reservation which annulledthe oath itself, and which of course all the senators likewiseadopted in swearing, so that by this mode of taking the oaththe validity of the laws was not secured, but was on the con­trary for the first time fairly called in question. The consequences of this behaviour—stupid beyond paral­lel—on the part of the celebrated general soon developedthemselves. Saturninus and Glaucia had not undertakenthe revolution and procured for Marius the supremacy of thestate, in order that they might be disowned and sacrificed byhim; if Glaucia, the favourite jester of the people, hadhitherto lavished on Marius the gayest flowers of his jovialeloquence, the garlands which he now wove for him were byno means redolent of roses and violets. A total rupturetook place, by which both parties were lost; for Marius had