OCR Output CMAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 44Q weakness; and even the modest language of his replystill left room for treaty and reconciliation. Chosroes ledinto the field the slaves of the palace and the populace ofthe capital: they beheld with terror the banners of a ve­teran army; they were encompassed and surprised by theevolutions of the general; and the satraps who had de­posed Hormouz, received the punishment of their revolt,or expiated their first treason by a second and more cri­minal act of disloyalty. The life and liberty of Chos­roes were saved, but he was reduced to the necessity ofimploring aid or refuge in some foreign land; and theimplacable Bindoes, anxious to secure an unquestionabletitle, hastily returned to the palace, and ended, with a D<*n» ofbow-string, the wretched existence of the son of Nushir- a. d. 590.van.p While Chosroes despatched the preparations of his re- cbosroe.treat, he deliberated with his remaining friends,q whether Rom.,he should lurk in the valleys of mount Caucasus, or flyto the tents of the Turks, or solicit the protection of theemperor. The long emulation of the successors of Ar-taxerxes and Constantine increased his reluctance to ap­pear as a suppliant in a rival court; but he weighed theforces of the Romans, and prudently considered, that theneighbourhood of Syria would render his escape moreeasy, and their succours more effectual. Attended onlyby his concubines, and a troop of thirty guards, he se­cretly departed from the capital, followed the banks ofthe Euphrates, traversed the desert, and halted at thedistance of ten miles from Circesium. About the third\vatch of the night, the Roman prefect was informed ofhis approach, and he introduced the royal stranger to the P Theophylact (lib. 4. c. 7.) imputes the death of Hormonz to his son, by whosecommand he was beaten to death with clubs. I bare followed Hie milder account ofKhondemir and Eutychius, and shall ajways be content with the slightest evidenceto extenuate the crime of parricide. i After the battle of Pharsalia, the Pompey of Luean (lib.. 8. 256—455.) holds asimilar debate. He was himself desirous of seeking the Parthians ; bat his compa­nions abhorred the unnatural alliance; and the adverse prejudices might operate asforcibly on Chosroes and his companions, who could describe, with the same vehe­mence, the contrast of laws, religion, and manners, between the cast aud nest.