OCR Output 112 THE ANNALS [A.U.C.770. out of the case, as a matter within the provisions ofthe Julian law. With regard to her calumnious lan­guage, Tiberius desired that a distinction might be ,'made. If it appeared in proof, that she had spokenirreverently of Augustus, the law he said, should takeits course ; but personalities levelled at himself mightpass with impunity. A question was put by the conrsul touching tho liberties taken with the emperor'smother. Tiberius made no reply. At the neximeeting of the senate he informed the fathers thatwords affecting Livia were, by her own desire, neverto be imputed as a crime. Varilia was acquitted onthe law of majesty. With regard to the charge ofadultery, Tiberius requested the fathers to soften therigour of their sentence. In conformity to ancientpractice, he was of opinion, that the relations of theoffender might remove her to the distance of two hun­dred miles from Rome. This mode of punishment wasadopted. Manlius, her paramour, was banished fromItaly and Africa. LI. The office of prator becoming vacant by thedeath of Vipsanius Gallus, the appointment of a suc­cessor gave occasion to a warm and eager contest.Haterius Agrippa, nearly related to Germanicus, wasdeclared a candidate. Drusus and Germanicus, bothstill at Rome, espoused his interest. It was, however,a settled rule, that the person who had the greatestnumber of children should be deemed to have the su­perior title. From this line of decision many of thelathers were unwilling to depart. Tiberius saw withinward satisfaction the senate wavering between tholaw and the wishes of his sons. The law as may beimagined, proved'too feeble. The two princes car­ried the question, though not without a strong con­tention, and by a small majority. This, however,was no more than what often happened in bettertimes, when laws were still in force, but had to strug­gle with power, and were often obliged to yield tosuperior interest. L1I. By the spirit of a bold and daring adventurer,a war was this year kindled up in Africa. This man,a Numidian by birth, and known by the name of Tac­