OCR Output Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS; 3T0 12. There are also those among them who undertake to *foretel things to come, by reading the holy books, and usingseveral sorts of purifications, and being perpetually conversantin the discourses of the prophets ; and it is but seldom thatthey miss in their predictions. - 13. Moreover, there is another order of Essens, who agreewith the rest as to their way of living, and customs, andlaws, but differ from them in the point of marriage, as thinkingthat by not marrying they cut off the principal part of humanlife, which is the prospect of succession; nay rather, that if allmen should be of the same opinion, the whole race of mankindwould fail. However, they try their spouses for three years,and if they find that they have their natural purgations thrice,as trials that they are likely to be fruitful, they then actuallymarry them. But they do not use to accompany with theirwives when they are with child, as a demonstration that they donot marry out of regard to pleasure, but for the sake of poste,rity. Now the women go into the baths with some of theirgarments on, as the men do with somewhat girded about them.And these are the customs of this ordej; of 'fesens. 14. But then as to the two other orders at first mentioned, thePharisees are those who are esteemed most skilful in the exactexplication of their laws, and introduce the first sect. Theseascribe all to fate, [or providence], and to God, and yet allow,that to act what is right, or the contrary, is principally in th«power of men; although fete does co-operate in every action.They say, that all souls are incorruptible, but that the f soulsof good men only are removedintootherbodies,but thatthe soulsof bad men are subject to eternal punishment. But the Saddu. cees * Dean Aldrich reckons up three example* of this gift of prophecy in severalof these Essens out of Josephns himself, viz. in the History of the War, B' I.'ch.iii. § 5. vol. HI. Judas foretold the death of Antigonus at Strato's Tower; B. II.chap. vii. § 3. Simon foretold that Archdaus should reign but nine or cen years;and Antiq. B. XV. «hap' x. § 4, 5. vol. II. Menehem foretold that Herod shouldbe king, and should reign tyrannically, and that for more thap twenty or eventhirty years. AH which came to pass accordingly. f There is so much more here about the Essens' than ia cited from Josephus inPorphyry and Eusebius, and yet so much lets about the Pharisees and Sadducees,the two other Jewish sects, than would naturally be expected in proportion to theEssens or third sect, nay, than teems to be referred to by himself elsewhere, thatone is tempted to suppose Josephus had at first written le-'E of the one, and moreof the two others than his present copies afford UB; as also, that, by some unknownaccident, our present copies are here made up of the larger edition in the first case,and of the smaller in the second. See the note in Havercamp's edition. Howe­ver, what Josephus says in the name of the Pharisees, that only the souls of goodmen go out of one body into another, although all souls be immortal, and still thesouls of the bad are liable to eternal punishment; as also what he says afterwards,Antiq. B. XVIII' chap. i. § 3. vol.111' that the soul's vigour is immortal, and thattr'd<:r the earth thsy receive rewards or punishments according as their lives huv­