OCR Output OF ROME. 385 troops, but the dictator alfb. The conjuncture re- B O O Kquiring inftant exertion, the conful fhewed no defi- . L -,ciency either of fpirit or of judgment. One part of Y.R. 314..the troops reinforced the guards at the gates, the B. Ct 4i8<1other manned the rampart all round. In the othercamp where the dictator commanded, as there waslefs tumult, fo it was eafier to perceive what was ne-ceffary to be done : difpatching inftantly a reinforce­ment to the conful's camp, under the command ofSpuriusPoftumiusAlbus, lieutenant general, he him-felf, with a body of forces, making a fmall circuit,proceeded to a place quite retired from the hurry ofaction, from whence he propofed to make an unex­pected attack on the enemy's rear. To QuintusSulpicrus, lieutenant. general, he gave the charge ofthe camp, to Marcus Fabius, lieutenant-general,he afligned the cavalry, with orders that thofe troops,which it would be hardly poffible to manage, in theconfufion of an action by night, mould not ftir un­til day.light. Every meafure, which any other ge­neral, however fkilful and active, could at fuch ajuncture order and execute, he ordered and executedwith perfect regularity. But it was a fingular in-ftance of judgment and intrepidity, and intitled tomore than ordinary praife, that, hot content with de-fenfive plans, he difpatched Marcus Geganius, withfome chofen cohorts, to attack that camp of theenemy, from which, according to the intelligence ofhis fcouts, they had marched out the greater num­ber of troops. Falling upon men whofe wholeattention was engrofied by the danger of their friends,while they were free from any apprehenfion for them-felves, and had neglected pofting watches or ad­vanced guards, he made himielf mafter of the camp,fooner almoft than the enemy knew that it was at­tacked. A fignal being then given by fmoke, as hadbeen concerted, the dictator perceiving it, cried out,that the enemy's camp was taken, and ordered thenews to be conveyed to all the troops. VOL.I. cc' XXVIII.