OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. JS other. He replied, that he was ready to serve them in whatthey desired, but he suspected that they would he discovered bythe king, from their meagre bodies, and the alteration of theircountenances, because it could not be avoided but their bodiesand colours must be changed with their diet, especially whilethey would be clearly discovered by the finer appearance of theother children, who would fare better, and thus they shouldbring him in danger, and occasion him to be punished: yet didthey persuade Arioch, who was thus fearful, to give them whatfood they desired for ten days, by wny of trial, and in case thehabit of their bodies were not altered, to go on in the same way>as expecting that they should not be hurt thereby afterwards, butif he saw them look meagre, and worse than the rest, he shouldreduce them to their former diet. Now, when it appeared thatthey were so far from becoming worse by the use of this food,that they grew plumper and fuller in body than the rest, inso­much that he thought those who fed on what came from the king'stable seemed less plump and full, while those that were with Da­niel looked as if they had lived in plenty, and all sorts of luxury;Arioch, from that time, securely took himself what the kingsent every day from his supper, according to custom^ to thechildren, but gave them the forementioned diet, while theyhad their souls in some measure more pure, and less burdened,and so fitter for learning, and had their bodies in better tunefor hard labour, for they neither had the former oppressed andheavy with variety of meats, nor were the other effeminate onthe same account; so they readily understood all the learningthat was among the Hebrews, and among the Chaldeans, as es­pecially did Daniel, who being already sufficiently skilful in wis­dom, was very busy about the interpretation of dreams; andGod manifested himself to him. - , 3. Now two years after the destruction of Egypt, king Ne­buchadnezzar saw a wonderful dream, the accomplishment ofwhich God showed him in his sleep, but when he arose out ofhis bed, he forgot the accomplishment: So he sent for the Chal­deans and magicians, and the prophets, and told them, that hehad seen a dream, and informed them that he had forgotten theaccomplishment of what he had seen, and he enjoined them to tellhim, both what the dream was, and what was its signification;and they said that this was a thing impossible to be discoveredby men, but they promised him, that if he would explain to themwhat dream he had seen, they would tell him its signification.Hereupon he threatened to put them to death; unless they toldhim his dream: and he gave command to have them all put todeath, since they confessed they could not do what they werecommanded to do. Now when Daniel heard that the king had VOL. II.