OCR Output MYCENAE. ."si MYCENAE geUn i I.iin. which spread out under its walls towardsthe west and south; and secondly the most import-juit roads from the Corinthian gulf, the roads fromFhlius, Xemea, Cleonae, and Corinth, unite in themountains above Mycenae, and pass under the heightupon which the city stands. It was said to harebeen built by Perseus (Strab. viii. p. 377; Paus. ii.15. § 4, ii. 16. § 3), and its massive walls were be­lieved to have been the work of the Cyclopes. HenceEuripides calls Mycenae TriKifffia nepo~ews, KvkKw-nivv ruvor xff^v (Iphig- in A "1. 1500). It wasthe favourite residence of the Pelopidae, and underAgamemnon was regarded as the first city in Greece.Hence it is called ito\vxpv<ros by Homer (/£ vii. 180,xi. 46), who also gives it the epithets of eupvdyvia(A iv. 52) and tvicrifieyov irroAlfflpov {11. ii. 569).Its greatness belongs only to the heroic age, and itceased to be a place of importance after the return ofthe Heracleidae and the settlement of the Dorians inArgos, which then became the first city in the plain.Mycenae, howerer, maintained its independence, andsent some of its citizens to the assistance of theGreeks against the host of Xerxes, although the Ar-gives kept aloof from the common cause. EightyMycenaeans were present at Thermopylae (Herod,vii. 202), and 400 of their citizens and of the Tiryn-thians fought at Plataeae (Herod, ix. 28). InB.C 468, the Dorians of Argos, resolving to bringthe whole district under their sway, laid siege toMycenae; but the massive walls resisted all theirattacks, and they were obliged to have recourse toa blockade. Famine at length compelled the inha­bitants to abandon the city; more than half of them took refuge in Macedonia, and the remainder in Cle­onae and Ceryneia. (Diod. xi. 65; Strab. viii.pp. 372, 377; Pans. ii. 16. § 5, v. 23. § 3, vii. 25.§ 3, viii. 27. § 1.) From this time Mycenae remaineduninhabited, for the Argives took care that thisstrong fortress should remain desolate. Strabo, how­ever, committed a gross exaggeration in saying thatthere was not a vestige of Mycenae extant in histime (viii. p. 372). The ruins were visited by Pau-sanias, who gives the following account of them (ii.15, 16):—"Returning to the piss of the Tretus,and following the road to Argos, you have the ruinsof Mycenae on the left hand. Several parts of theenclosure remain, and among them is the gate uponwhich the lions stand. These also are said to he thework of the Cyclopes, who built the walls of Tirynsfor Proetus. Among the ruins of the city there isa fountain named Perseia, and subterraneous build­ings (uro7o7a oiKohauriuara) of Atreus and hissons, in which their treasures were deposited. Thereare likewise the tombs of Atreus, of his charioteerEurymedon, of Electra, and a sepulchre in commonof Teledamus and Pelops, who are said to have beentwin sons of Cassandra. But Clytaemnestra andAegisthus were buried at a little distance from thewalls, being thought unworthy of burial where Aga­memnon lay." The rains of Mycenae are still very extensive,and, with the exception of those of Tiryns, are moraancient than those of any other city in Greece. Theybelong to a period long antecedent to all historicalrecords, and may be regarded as the genuine relicsof the heroic age. l-LAX OK TIIK RUINS OK MVCKNAE. A. Arropolli. B. Gate of l.ion«. C. Subterraneous building, usually called the Treasury , Mycenae consisted of an Acropolis and a lowertown, each defended by a wall. The Acropolis wassituated on the summit of a steep hill, projectingfrom a higher mountain behind it. The lower townlay on the south-western slope of the hill, on eitherside of which runs a torrent from east to west.The Acropolis is in form of an irregular triangle, D. Subterraneous building. E. Village of Kliarvati. of which the base fronts the sooth-west, and theapex the cast. On the southern side the cliffs arealmost precipitous, overhanging a deep gorge; buton the northern sido the descent is less steep andrugged. The summit of the hill is rather more than1000 feet in length, and around the edire the ruinedwalls of the Acropolis still exist in their entire cir­