OCR Output Ix NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. [24] The vith Panegyric was pronounced to ce­lebrate ilie elevation of Constantino; but the pru­dent orator avoids the mention either of Galeriusor of Maxentius. He introduces only one flightallusion to the actual troubles, and to the majesty,of Rome. [25] With regard to this negociation, fee thefragments of an anonymous Historian, published byValerius at the end of his edition of ArnmianusMarcellinus, p. 711. These fragments have fur­nished us with several curious, and as it should seemauthentic, anecdotes. [zf>] Lactantius, de M. P. c. a8. The formwof these reasons is probably taken from Virgil'sShepherd; "Illam ego huic nostræ simrlem Me- libxe putavi, &c." Laitantius delights in thesepoetical allusions. [27] Castra super Tusci si ponere Tybridis undas;(jubtas) Hcsperios audax veniam metator in agros. Tu quoscunque voles in planum efFundere muros, His aries actus disperget saxa lacertis; Ilia licet penitus tolli quam jusseris urbem Roma sit. Lucan. Pharsal. i. 381. [28] Lactantius de M. P. c. 27. Zosim. I. ii.p. 82. The latter insinuates, that Constantine, inhis interview with Maximian, had promised to de­clare war against Galerius. • [29] M. de Tillemont (Hist, des Empereurs,torn. iv. part i. p. 559.) has proved, that Licinius,without passing through the intermediate rank ofCitsar, was declared Augustus, the nth of Novem­ber, A. D. 307, after the return of Galerius fromItaly. [30] Lactantius de M. P. c. 32. When Ga­lerius declared Licinius Augustus with himself, hetried to satisfy his younger associates, by inventing,for Constantine and Maximin (not Maxtntiui, feeEaluze, p. 81.) the new title of sons of the Augusti.But when Maximin acquainted him that he hadbeen saluted Augustus by the army, Galerius wasobliged to acknowledge him, as well as Constan­tine, as equal associates in the Imperial dignity. [31] See Panegyr. Vet. vi. 9. Audi doloris nostriliberam vocem, &c. the whole passage is imagined with artful flattery, and expressed with an easyflow of eloquence. [32] Lactantius de M. P. c. 28. Zosim. 1. ii.p. tiz. A report was spread, that Maxentius wasthe son of some obscure Syrian, and had been substi­tuted by the wise of Maximian as her own child.See Aurelius Victor, Anonym. Valesian, and Pan­egyr. Vet. ix. 3. 4. [31] Ab urbe pulsum, ab Italia fugatum, ab>lllyrico repudiatum, tuis provineiis, tuis copiis, tuopalatio recepisti. Eumen.in i'anegyr. Vet. vii. 14. [34] Lactantius de M. P. c. 29. Yet after theresignation of the purple, Constantine still continuedto Maximian the pomp and honours of the Imperialdignity; and on all public occasions gave theright-hand place to his father-in-law. Panegyr.Vet. vii. 15. [35] Zosim. 1. ii. p. 82. Eumenius in Panegyr.Vet. vii. 16—21. The latter of these has un­doubtedly represented the whole affair in the mostfavourable light for his sovereign. Yet even from hispartial narrative we may conclude, that the repeatedclemency of Constantine, and the reiterated treasonsof Maximian, as they arc described by Lactantius(de M. P. c. 29, 30.), and copied by the moderns,are destitute of any historical foundation. [36] Aurelius Victor, c. 40. But that lake wassituated in the Upper Pannonia, near th« borders ofNoricum; and the province of Valeria (a namewhich the wife of Galerius gave to [the drainedcountry) undoubtedly lay between the Drave andthe Danube (Sextus Rufus, c. c.). I ihould there­fore suspect that Victor has confounded the lakePelso, with the Volocean marshes, or, as they arenow called, the Jake Sabaton. It is placed in theheart of Valeria, and its present extent is not lessthan 12 Hungarian miles (about 70 English) inlength, and two in breadth. See Severini Panno­nia, 1. i. c. 9. [57] Lactantius (de M. P. c. 33.) and Eusebius(1. viii. c. 16.) describe the symptoms and pro­gress of his disorder with singular accuracy and ap­parent pleasure. [38] If any (like the late Dr. Jortin, Remarksof Ecclesiastical history, vol. ii. p. 307—356.) still delight.