OCR Output 184 [book vr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS had approached to it. Those of that villagewept lor these that thus suffered, and madesuch lamentation as was naturally to be ex­pected of so great a misfortune that was sentfrom God; and every one mourned for hisown relation. And since they acknowledgedthemselves unworthy of the ark's abode withthem, they sent to the public senate of theIsraelites, and informed them that the arkwas restored by the Philistines. Which whenthey knew, they brought it away to Kirjath-jearim, a city in the neighbourhood of Beth-shemesh. In this city lived one Abinadab,by birth a Levite, and who was greatly com­mended for his righteous and religious courseof life; so they brought the ark to his house,as to a place fit for God himself to abide in,since therein did inhabit a righteous man.His sons also ministered to the Divine serviceat the ark, and were the principal curatorsof it for* twenty years; for so long it con­tinued in Kirjathjearim; having been butffour months with the Philistines. CHAP. II. OF THE EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINST THE HE­BREWS, AND THE HEBREWS' VICTORY, UNDER THE CON­DUCT OF SAMUEL THE TROPHET, WHO WAS THEIR GENE­RAL. WHILE the city of Kirjathjearim hadthe ark with them, the whole body ofthe people betook themselves all at that timeto offer prayers and sacrifices to God, and ap­peared greatly concerned and zealous abouthis worship. So Samuel the prophet thoughtit a proper time to speak to them, while they were in this good disposition, about the re­covery of their liberty, and of the blessingsthat accompanied the same. Accordingly heused such words to them, as he thought weremost likely to excite that inclination, and topersuade them to attempt it:J "O ye Israel­ites," said he, "to whom the Philistines arestill grievous enemies, but to whom God be­gins to be gracious: it behoves you not onlyto be desirous of liberty, but to take theproper methods to obtain it. Nor are you tobe contented with an inclination to get clearof your lords and masters, while you still dowhat will procure your continuance underthem. Be righteous then, and cast wicked­ness out of your souls, and by your worshipsupplicate the Divine Majesty with all yourhearts, and persevere in the honour you payto him. For if you act thus, you will enjoyprosperity, you will be freed from yourslavery, and will get the victory over yourenemies; which blessing cannot possibly beattained either by weapons of war, by thestrength of your bodies, or by the multitudeof your assistance; for God has not promisedto grant these blessings by those means; butby being good and righteous men. And ifyou will be such, I will be security to you forthe performance of God's promises." WhenSamuel had thus said, the multitude ap­plauded his discourse, and gave their consentto resign themselves up to do what waspleasing to God. So Samuel gathered themtogether, to a certain city called Mizpeh;||which signifies, in the Hebrew tongue, awatch tower. There they drew water, andpoured it out to God,§ and fasted all day,and betook themselves to their prayers. * From an. 1148 to 1128. Seven months, in the Hebrew and Septuagint. An. 1128. The Mizpeh here mentioned, as appears from thecircumstance of the story, must be different from thatwhich is remarked in the history of Jephtha: There isindeed another Mizpeh mentioned among the cities ofJudah, Josh. xv. 38. and a third, among those of Ben­jamin, Josh, xviii. 26. Some are of opinion, that thesetwo cities are one and the same, and are only supposed tobe two, because they lie in the confines of each tribe ; butif they are not the same, it seems most probable, that theMizpeh in the tribe of Benjamin was the city which is herespoken of. And we may observe farther, that as Mizpehis said to be situated not far from Eben-ezer, and probablyon the east or north side: so Shen (if it be the name of aplace, and not rather on some sharp rock thereabouts)was situated not far from it on the opposite, i. e. on the west or south-west side, to which Bethcar must needs becontiguous. WelWsGeog. of the Old Test. vol. iii. c. 1. B.§ The words in our translation run thus :—And theygathered to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it outbefore the Lord, 1 Sam. vii. 6. but what we are to under­stand by this water, the conjectures of commentators havebeen various. Some take these words in a metaphoricalsense, to denote those tears of contrition, which weredrawn, as it were, from the bottom of their hearts, and fellfrom their eyes before the Lord. Others think, that withthis water they washed their bodies, as they are supposedto have done upon another occasion, Exod. xix. 20. tosignify the purification of their souls from the pollution ofsin. Others that they made use of it to cleanse the groundwhere Samuel was to erect an altar, that it might not standupon an impure place. Some suppose that it was em­ployed as an emblem of humiliation, of prayer, of expia­tion, of execration, and I know not what besides. But the