OCR Output THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 1149 THEBAE BOEOTIAE. limed in Orchomenus and Thcspiae for the purposerrrnwing Boeotia, and the city of Plataca was re-.i: t<» serve as au outpost of the Spartan power.iu. ix. I. § 4). A more direct blow was aimedtbc independence of Thebes in b. c 382 by thetan of the Cadmeia, the citadel of the city, bySjartan commander, Phoebidas, assisted bymbades and a party in Thebes favourable- to«r,.v Though Phoebidas appears to have actediff secret orders from the Ephors (Dunl. xv. 20; AfjtsiL 24), such was the indignation exciteditifbuat Greece by this treacherous art In timefare, that the Ephors found it necessary to dis-■m Phoebidas and to remove him from his coin*••J. but they u**k care to reap the fruits of his fc> by retaining their garrison in the Cadmeia.'9. UUL t. 2. $ 25.) Many of tho leading •■m at Thebes took refuge at Athens, and weren*l with the ^auie kindness which the Atheniana experienced at Thebes after the close of the'j-xiftcMau War. Thebes remained in the handstbr Spartan party for three years; but in B. c.1 the Spartan garrison was expelled from theiitii-ui, and the party of Lcontiades overthrown by^fedoa and the other exiles. Tho history ofe events is too well known to be repeated here,the f. J lowing year (u. c. 378) Thebes formedu.ufice with Athens, and with the assistance of •Utr resisted with success the attempts of the^lATTxmians to reduce tliem to subjection; butnotinned increase of the power of the Thebans, thfir destruction o 1 the city of Plataea [Pla-a] provoked the jealousy of the Athenians, andEly induce* 1 them to conclude a treaty of peace Sjedtm, b. r, 371. This treaty, usually called(Are of Callias from the name of the leadingmion negotiator, included all the parties in the ■ ir with the exception of the Thebans, who- thus left to contend single-handed with theA of Sparta. It was universally believed that • s was doomed to destruction; but only twenty after the signing of the treaty all Greece was■nOcd at tbe news that a Lacedaemonian army t#4u utterly defeated, and their king Cleom-fclain, by the Thebans, under the command ofth-.hk1.ta, upon the fatal field of Leuctra (b. c. This battle not only destroyed the pres-of Sparta and gave Thebes the ascendency oft«. bat it atript Sparta of her Peloponnesian><Ter whom she hud exercised dominion forin?*, and led to the establishment of two new/ ii |wrrr« in the Peloponnesus, which threatened"o independence. These were the Arcadian•Wratiua and the restoration of the state ofmis, both the work of Epaminondas, who con-ii Jour expeditions into Peloponnesus, and di-i tike eouncils of Thebes for the next 10 years.j to the abilities and genius of this extraordinary 'Lit Thebes owed her position at the head ofireciaa states; and upon his death, at the battleAfitinetA (b. c 362). she lost the pre-eminence vi enjnyeij since the buttle of Leuctra. During tufremacy in Greece, the Thebans were ofr- undisputed masters of Bueotia, and they■J tb*w»elves of their power to wreak their-unre up"« Orthoinemis and Thespiae, the twoi vtuefa hod been tlie most inimical to their*nty, the one in tbe north and the other in the uf Boeotia. Tlie Orcboineiiians had in it. c.'I«»ly joined the Spartans and fought on their aijJ tLe Thespians had witbdrawu from the Theban army just before the battle of Leuctra,when Epaminondas gave permission to any Boeotiansto retire who were averse to the Theban cause.(Paus. ix. 13. § 8.) The Thespians were expelledfrom their city and Boeotia sum after the battle ofLeuctra [Thkhpiae]; and Orchomenus in B. c.368 was burnt to the ground by the Thebans; themale inhabitants were put to the sword, and all thewomen and children sold into slavery. [Okcho- MKNUS.] The jealousy which Athens had felt towardsThebes before the jteace of Callias had been greatlyincreased by her subsequent victories; and tlie twostates appear henceforward in their old condition ofhostility iill they were persuaded by Demosthenes tounite their arms for the purpose of resisting Philipof Maccdon. After the battle of Mantineia their fir>topen war was for the possession of Euboea. Afterthe battle of Leuctra this island had passed under thesupremacy of Thebes; but, in B.C. 358, discon­tent having arisen against Thebes in several of thecities of Euboea, tlie Thebans sent a powerful forceinto the islam). The discontented cities applied foraid to Athens, which was readily granted, and theThebans were expelled from Euboea. (Diod. xvi.7; Dem. tie Chermm. p. 108, de Cor. p. 259, c.Ctesiph. p. 397.) Shortly afterwards tlie Thebanscommenced the war against tho Phocians, usuallyknown as the Sacred War, and in which almost allthe leading states of Greece were eventually involved.Both Athens and Sparta supported the Phocians, asa counterpoise to Thebes, though they did not renderthem much effectual assistance. This war termi­nated, as is welt known, by tlie intervention of Philip,who destroyed the Pbocian towns, and restored toBoeotia Orchomenus and the other towns which thePhocians had taken away from them, B.C. 346. TheThebans were still the allies of Philip,when the latterseized Elateia in Phocis towards the close of B.C.339, as preparatory to a march through Boeotiaagainst Athens. The old feeling of ill-will betweenThebes and Athens still continued: Philip calculatedupon the good wishes, if not the active co-operation,of the Thebans against their old enemies; and pro-bably never dreamt of a confederation between thetwo states as within the range of probability. Thisunion, however, was brought about by the eloquenceof Demosthenes, who was sent as ambassador toThebes, and who persuaded the Thebans to form analliance with the Athenians for the purpose ofresisting the ambitious schemes of Philip. In thefollowing year (b. c. 338) Philip defeated thocombined forces of Thebes and Athens at the battleof Chaeroneia, which crushed the liberties of Greece,and made it in reality a province of the Macedonianmonarchy. On this fatal field the Thebans main­tained the reputation they had won in their battleswith the Spartans; and their Sacred Band was cutto pieces in their ranks. The battle was followedby the surrender of Thebes, which Philip treatedwith great severity. Many of the leading citizens«ere either banished or put to death; a Macedoniangarrison was stationed in the Cadmeia; «nd the go­vernment of the city was placed in the bands of 300citizens, the partisans of 1'hilip. The Thebans werealso deprived of their sovereignty over the Boeotiantowns, and Orchomenus and Plataea were restored,and again filled with a population hostile to Thebes.(Diodor. xvi. 87; Justin, ix. 4; Paus. ir. 27. $ 10,ix. 1. § S.) In tbe year after Philip's death (b c.335) tbe Theban exiles got poosessioii of the city,