OCR Output AN. 1512.] 115 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. that any such accident had happened. Thusdid these men perish,* and became a demon-tration of the power of God. And truly, anyone would lament them, not only on accountof this calamity that befel them, which yetdeserves our commiseration; but also becausetheir kindred were pleased with their suffer­ings; for they forgot the relation they bare tothem; and at the sight of this sad accident,approved of the judgment given against them:and because they looked upon the peopleabout Dathan as pestilent men, they thoughtthey perished as such, and did not grieve forthem. Moses now called for those that contendedabout the priesthood, that trial might be madewho should be priest, and that he whose sacri­fice God was best pleased with, might be or­dained to that function. So the two hundredand fifty men approached, who indeed werehonoured by the people, not only on accountof their ancestors, but also on account of theirown power, in which they excelled the others.Aaron and Corah also came forth; and theyall offered incense, in those censers whichthey brought with them, before the taber­nacle. Hereupon, so great a fire shone out, asno one ever saw in any that is made by thehand of man; neither in those eruptions outof the earth, that are caused by subterrane­ous burnings; nor in such fires as arise oftheir own accord in the woods, when the agi­tation is caused by the trees rubbing oneagainst another; but this fire was very bright,and had a terrible flame, such as is kindled atthe command of God; by whose irruption onthem, all the company, and Corah himself,weref destroyed so entirely, that their verybodies left no remains. Aaron alone was pre­served, and not at all hurt by the fire; be­cause it was God that sent the fire to burnthose only who ought to be burned. Here­upon Moses, after these men were destroyed,was desirous that the memory of this judgmentmight be delivered down to posterity, andthat future ages might be acquainted with it;and he commanded Eleazar, the son of Aaron,to put their censers near the brazen altar,that they might be a memorial to posterity of * Numb. xvi. 33. t It appears here, from the Samaritan Pentateuch, and'j» effect from the Psalmist, as also from the ApostolicalConstitutions, from Clement's first Epistle to the Corin- voi>. I.—No. 10. what these men suffered, for supposing thatthe power of God might be eluded. And thusAaron was no longer esteemed to have thepriesthood by the favour of Moses, but by thepublic judgment of God, and he and his child­ren peaceably enjoyed that honour afterward. CHAP. IV. OF WHAT HAPPENED TO THE HEBREWS DURIN6 THIRTT-EICHT YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS. THE sedition, however, was so far fromceasing upon this destruction, that itgrew much stronger,J and became more intolerable. And the occasion of its growingworse was of that nature, as made it likely thecalamity would last for a long time. For themen believing already that nothing is donewithout the providence of God, would haveit, that these things came thus to pass notwithout God's favour to Moses. They there­fore laid the blame upon him, that God wasso angry; and that this happened not so muchbecause of the wickedness of those that werepunished, as because Moses procured thepunishment: and that these men had beendestroyed without any sin of theirs, only be­cause they were zealous about the divineworship: as also that he who had been thecause of this diminution of the people, by de­stroying so many men, and those the most ex­cellent of them all; besides his escaping anypunishment himself, had now given the priest­hood to his brother so firmly, that nobodycould any longer dispute it with him; for noone else could now put in for it, since he musthave seen those that first did so, to have mise­rably perished. Nay, besides this, the kindredof those that were destroyed, made great en­treaties to the multitude to abate the arro­gance of Moses, because it would be safestfor them so to do. Moses, upon his hearing that the peoplewere tumultuous, was afraid they would at­tempt some other innovation; and that somegreat and sad calamity would be the conse­quence. So he called the multitude to a con­gregation, and patiently heard what apologythey made for themselves, without opposing thians, from Ignatius's Epistle to the Magnesians, and fromEusebius, that Corah was not swallowed up with theReubenites, but burnt with the Levites, of his own tribe.J Numb. xvi. 41. Gg