OCR Output 116 LIVY. ships, intrusting himself, in an enemy's country, to thepower of the king, and to his fidelity, as yet untried.Scipio had formed the scheme of subduing their peo­ple, had long entertained this design, and had openlyexpressed his regret that he was not carrying on warin Africa, as Hannibal was in Italy.' The league, how­ever, being ratified with Syphax, Scipio set sail; andafter being tossed a good deal during the voyage, byvariable and generally boisterous winds, he made theharbor of New Carthage on the fourth day. 19. As Spain had now rest from the Carthaginianwar, so it was manifest that some states remainedquiet rather through fear, arising from the conscious­ness of misbehavior, than through sincere attachment.The most remarkable of these, both in greatness andin guilt, were Illiturgi and Castulo. The inhabitantsof Castulo, allies of the Romans while they were suc­cessful, had, on the destruction of the first Scipios andtheir armies, revolted to the Carthaginians. Those ofIlliturgi, by betraying and killing such as had fled tothem after that calamity, had added barbarity to re­volt. To have executed severe vengeance on thosestates, at Scipio's first coming, when affairs in Spainwere in a precarious state, would have been moresuited to their demerits than agreeable to principles ofsound policy; but now, when affairs were in a stateof tranquillity, the proper time for inflicting punish­ment seemed to have arrived. He therefore sent forLucius Marcius from Tarraco, and despatching himwith a third part of the forces to besiege Castulo, hewent himself with the rest of the army against Illi­turgi, where he arrived on the fifth day. The gatesthere had been already shut, and every precautiontaken, and preparation made for repelling an attack;so far had their consciousness of what they meritedserved them instead of a declaration of war. HenceScipio took occasion to represent, in an exhortation tohis soldiers, ' that the Spaniards themselves, by shut­ting their gates, had shown what, in justice, they hadreason to apprehend; that they ought, therefore, to