OCR Output LACONIA. 113 LACONIA. the ate of ancient Sparta a town still called Jjace-Haimonia; bot in A. D. 1248, William Villehardoinbuilt a fortress on one of the rocky hills at the footnf Ml Taygetus, about three miles from the city ofLtrcdacmoma. Here he took up his residence;and on this rock, called Misithra, usually pronouncedMiitra, a new town arose, which became the capitalof Laconia, and continued to be so till Sparta beganto be rebuilt on its ancient site by order of the] resent Greek government. (Finlay, Medieval Greece,p. 230; Curtius, Pelopormesoa, vol. ii. p. 214.) V. Towns. 1. In the Spartan Plain. — The three chief townsrtre Sparta, Amyclae, and Pharis. all situatednear one another, and upon some of the lowerheights close to the Eurotas. Their proximitywould Mem to show that they did not arise at thesame time. Amyclae lay only 2J miles south ofi-iarta, and appears to have been the chief place inuie country before the Dorian invasion. South ofAmyclae, and on the road from this town to the sea,**s Pharis, also an Achaean town in existencebefore the Dorian conquest. Therapne may bere^nlsd as almost a part of Sparta. [Sparta.]On the slopes of Mr, Taygetus, above the plain,there were several places. They were visited byPaasn.ias (iii. 20. §§ 3—7), but it is difficult todv:ennine the road which he took. After crossingtoe river Phellia, beyond Amyclae, he turned to theri:ht towards the mountain. In the plain was aunctMry of Zeus Messapeus, belonging, as we learnfrom Steplianus, to a village called Messapeae(MnriTtti«oi), and beyond it, at the entrance intothe mountains, the Homeric city of Bryseae. In themountains was a sanctuary of Demeter Eleusinia,anl 15 stadia from the latter Lapithaeum, nearwhich was Derriiicm, where was a fountain calledAnonus. Twenty stadia from Derrhium was Har-floa, which borders upon the plain. Pausaniasgives no information of the direction in which heproceeded from the Eleusinium to Harpleia. Leakesupposes that he turned to the south, and accord­ingly places Harpleia at the entrance into the plainby the bridge of Xerokampo; while Curtius, on thecontrary, imagines that he turned to the north, andcame into the plain at MUtrd, which he thereforeidentifies with Harpleia. It is impossible to de­termine which of these views is the more correct.The antiquities and inscriptions discovered at Mistrdprove that it was the site of an ancient town, andLoire conjectures that it represents the Homeric HesSE. 2. In the Vale of the Upper Eurotas.—The­rmo from Sparta to Megalopolis followed the vale ofthe Enrotas. On thU road Pausanias mentions firstseveral monuments, the position of one of which, the|«nb of Laiias, may still be identified. This tombis described as distant 50 stadia from Sparta, andas utruted above the road, which here passes veryr.ear to the river Eurotas. At about this distancefr*n Sparta, Leake perceived a cavern in the rocks,*r.K two openings, one of which appeared to haveten fasiuoned by art, and a little beyond a semi-fire alar sepulchral niche: the place is called by thefeasanU o-rofa 4>oi>pvovs. (Leake, Morea, vol. iii.p. 13.) Further on was the Characoma (Xapax»/xa),a fortification, probably, in the narrow part of theT»ury; above it the town Pf.lt.asa, the frontier-fjr.ress of Sparta in the vale of the Eurotas; and 100•tadia from Pellana, Beleuixa. (Pans. iii. 20. § 8 —21. § 3.) In the neighbourhood of Beleminawas Aegys, originally an Arcadian town, whichwas conquered at an early period by the Spartans,and its territory annexed to Laconia. In the uppervale of the Eurotas was the Lacedaemonian Tri-polis. (Liv. xxxv. 27.) Pellana was one of thethree cities (Polyb. iv. 81); Belemina was un­doubtedly another; and the third was either Aegysor Carystus. The road to Tegea and Argos ran along the valeof the Oenus. (Paus. iii. 10. §§ 6—8.) Aftercrossing the bridge over the Eurotas, the travellersaw on his right hand Mount Thornax, upon whichstood a colossal statue of Apollo Pythaeus, guardingthe city of Sparta, which lay at his feet. (Comp.Herod, i. 69; Xen. Hell. vi. 5. § 27.) A littlefurther on in the vale of the Ocnus, was Sei.lasia,which was the bulwark of Sparta in the vale of theOenus, as Pellana was in that of the Eurotas.Above Sellasia whs a small plain, the only one inthe vale of the Oenus, bounded on the east by Mt.Olympus and on the west by Mr, Evas: a smallstream, called Gorgylus, flowed through the westernside of the plain into the Oenus. This was the siteof the celebrated battle in which Cleomenes wasdefeated by Antigonus. [Sellasia.] In this plainthe road divided into two, one leading to Argos andthe other to Tegea. The road to Argos followedthe Oenus; and to the west of the road, about anhour distant from the modern Ardkhova, lay Ca-I'.vak. From this place to the confines of theThyreati3 in Argolis, was a forest of oaks, calledScotitas (SkotItcis), which derived its name froma temple of Zeus Scotitas, about 10 stadia west ofthe road. (Paus. iii. 10. § 6; Polyb. xvi. 37.) Onthe ridge of Mt. Parnon the boundaries of Argolisand Laconia were marked by Uermae, of which,three heaps of stones, called oi ipovtvptvot (the slain),may perhaps be the remains. (Ross, /»»■< im Pelo-ponnes, p. 173.) There was also a town Oesus,from which the river derived its name. The road to Tegea, which is the same as thepresent road from Sparta to Tripolitzd, after leavingthe plain of Sellasia, passes over a high and moun­tainous district, called Sciritis in antiquity. Theterritory of Laconia extended beyond the highestridge of the mountain; and the chief source of theAlpheius, called Sarantopotamosf formed the boun­dary between Laconia and the Tcgeatis. Beforereaching the Arcadian frontier, the rood wentthrough a narrow and rugged pass, now calledKlisitra. The two towns in Sciritis were Scirusand Oeum, called Ium by Xcnophon. 3. In the southern part of Laconia. — On theroad from Sparta to Gythium, tho chief port of thecountry, Pausanias (iii. 21. § 4) first mentionsCroceae, distant about 135 stadia from Sparta,aud celebrated for its quarries. Gythium was 30stadia beyond Croceae, Above Gythium, in theinterior, was Akgiae, to which a road also ledfrom Croceae. Opposite Gythium was the islandCranak. After giving an account of Gythium,Pausanias divides the rest of Laconia, for the pur­poses of his description, into what lies left and whatlies right of Gythium (iv apttrrtp^ Vv6iou} iii. 22.§ 3 T<t iv Se£i$ ruflioi;, iii. 24. § 6). Following tho order of Pausanias, we will firstmention the towns to the left or east of Gythium.Thirty stadia above Gythium was Trinasus, si­tuated upon a promontory, which formed the NE.extremity of the peninsula terminating in Cape voi- a