OCR Output 186 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. 5, And when Nicanor came down from the citadel untothe temple, some of the priests and elders met him, and salutedhim; and showed him the sacrifices which they said they of­fered to God for the king: upon which he blasphemed, andthreatened them, that unless the people would deliver up Judasto him, upon his return he would pull down their temple.And when he had thus threatened them, he departed from Je­rusalem: But the priests fell into tears out of grief of what hehad said, and besought God to deliver them from their ene­mies. But now for Nicanor, when he was gone out of Je­rusalem, and was at a certain village called Bethhoron, he therepitched his camp, another army out of Syria having joinedhim: And Judas pitched his camp at Adasa, another village,which was thirty furlongs distant from Bethhoron, having nomore than one thousand soldiers. And when he had encour­aged them not to be dismayed at the multitude of their enemies,nor to regard how many they were against whom they were go­ing to fight, but to consider who they themselves were, and forwhat great rewards they hazarded themselves, and to attack theenemy courageously, he led them out to fight, and joining bat­tle with Nicanor, which proved to be a severe one, he overcamethe enemy, and slew many of them; and at last Nicanor himself,as he was fighting, gloriously fell. Upon whose fall the armydid not stay, but when they had lost their general they were putto flight and threw down their arms; Judas also pursued themand slew them; and gave notice by the sound of the trumpets tothe neighbouring villages, that he had conquered the enemy;which, when the inhabitants heard, they put on their armourhastily, and met their enemies in the face as they were runningaway, and slew them, insomuch that not one of them escaped outof this battle, and were in number nine thousand. This victoryhappened to fall on the thirteenth day of that month, whichby the Jews is called Adar, and the Macedonians Dystrus;and the Jews thereon celebrate this victory every year, andesteem it as a festival day. After which the Jewish nationwere, for a while, free from wars, and enjoyed- peace; butafterward they returned into their former state of wars andhazards. 6. But now as the high priest Alcimus was resolving to pulldown the wall of the sanctuary, which had been there of old time, cnnor contrary to the words following, which imply, that he who was beaten fled in­to (he citadel, which for certain belonged to the city of David, or to Mount Zion,and was in the possession of Nicanor's garrison, and not of Judas': As also it iscontrary to the express words of Josephus' original author, 1 Mac-nib- vii. 32. whosays that Nicanor lost about 500O men, and fled to the city of David.