OCR Output 388 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I. and in weight two talents; upon these there is a light thatis never extinguished either by night or by day. There isno image, nor any thing, nor any donations therein;nothing at all is there planted, neither grove, nor any thingof that sort. The priests abide therein both nights and days,performing certain purifications, and drinking not the leastdrop of wine while they are in the temple." Moreover, heattests that we Jews went as auxiliaries along with king Alex­ander, and after him with his successors. I will add farther,what he says ho learned, when he was himself with the samoarmy, concerning the actions of a man that was a Jew. Hiswords arc these : — "As I was myself going to the Red Sea,there followed us a man whose name was Mosollam: he wasone of the Jewish horsemen who conducted us: he was a per­son of great courage, of a strong body, and by all allowed tobe the most skilful archer that was either among the Greeksor Barbarians. Now this man, as people were in great num­bers passing along the road, and a certain augur was ob­serving an augury by a bird, and requiring them all to standstill, inquired what they staid for? Hereupon the augurshowed liim the bird from whence he took his augury, andtold him, that if the bird staid where he was, they ought allto stand still, but that if he got up and fled onward, theymust go forward; but that if he flew backward, they mustretire again. Mosollam made no reply, but drew his bow,and shot at the bird, and hit him, and killed him ; and as theaugur and some others were very angry, and wished impreca­tions upon him, he answered them thus : — "Why are you somad as to take this most unhappy bird into your hands ? forhow can this bird give us any true information concerningour march who could not foresee how to save himself? forhad he been able to foreknow what was future, he would nothave come to this place, but would have been afraid lest Mo­sollam the Jew should shoot at him and kill him." But ofHecatcus's testimonies we have said enough; for as to suchas desire to know more of them, they may easily obtain themfrom his book itself. However, I shall not think it too muchfor me to name Agatharchides, as having made mention of