OCR Output CHAP. LIT. 497 sufficient allowance was provided for the indigent scho­lars; and the merit or industry of the professors was re­paid with adequate stipends. In every city the produc­tion of Arabic literature were copied and collected by thecuriosity of the studious, and the vanity of the rich. Aprivate doctor refused the invitation of the sultan of Bo-chara, because the carriage of his books would have re­quired four hundred camels^ The royal library of theFatimites consisted of one hundred thousand manuscripts,elegantly transcribed and splendidly bound, which werelent, without jealousy or avarice, to the students of Cairo.But this collection must appear moderate, if we can be­lieve that the Ommiades of Spain had formed a libraryof six hundred thousand volumes, forty-four of whichwere employed in the mere catalogue. Their capital,Cordova, with the adjacent towns of Malaga, Almeria,and Murcia, had given birth to more than three hundredwriters, and above seventy public libraries were openedin the cities of the Andalusian kingdom. The age ofArabian learning continued about five hundred years,till the great irruption of the Moguls, and was coevalwith the darkest and most slothful period of Europeanannals; but since the sun of science has arisen in thewest, it should seem that the oriental studies have lan­guished and declined.11 Their real In the libraries of the Arabians, as in those ofprogress j;ur0pel tae far greater part of the innumerablesciences, volumes were possessed only of local value orimaginary merit,' The shelves were crowded with ora­tors and poets, whose style was adapted to the taste and h These literary anecdotes are borrowed from the Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana,(torn. 9. p. 38. 71.201, 205!.) Leo Africanus, (ile Arab. Medicia et Philosophis, inFabric. Bibliot. Grsx. torn. 13. p. 259—298. particularly 274.) and Renaudot,(Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 274, 275. 536,537.) besides the chronological remarks ofAbulpharagius. 'The Arabic catalogue of the Escurial will give a just idea of the proportion ofthe classes. In the library of Cairo, the MSS. of astronomy and medicine amounted^o six thousand five hundred, with two fair globes, the one of brass, the other ofsilver. (Bibliot. Arab. Hisp. torn. 1. p. 417.) VOL. VI. 2 K