OCR Output 422 ROMAN EMPIRE. extant, had perused and compared the writings of their predecessors;' nor can it fairly be presumed that any important truth, any useful discovery in art or nature, has been snatched away from the curiosity of modern ages. ., . In the administration of Egypt,11 Amrou ba- Admini- OJ r stration of lanced the demands of justice and policy: thegypt' interest of the people of the law, who were de­fended by God; and of the people of the alliance, whowere protected by man. In the recent tumult of con­quest and deliverance, the tongue of the Copts and thesword of the Arabs were most adverse to the tranquillityof the province. To the former, Amrou declared, thatfaction and falsehood would be doubly chastised; by thepunishment of the accusers, whom he should detest ashis personal enemies, and by the promotion of their inno­cent brethren, whom their envy had laboured to injureand supplant. He excited the latter by the motives ofreligion and honour to sustain the dignity of their cha­racter, to endear themselves by a modest and temperateconduct to God and the caliph, to spare and protect apeople who had trusted to their faith, and to contentthemselves with the legitimate and splendid rewards oftheir victory. In the management of the revenue hedisapproved the simple but oppressive mode of a capi­tation, and preferred with reason a proportion of taxes,deducted on ev^ery branch from the clear profits of agri­culture and commerce. A third part of the tribute wasappropriated to the annual repairs of the dikes and canals,so essential to the public welfare. Under his admini­stration the fertility of Egypt supplied the dearth of 'Such as Galon, Pliny, Aristotle, &c. On this subject Wotton (Reflections onAncient and Modern Learning, p. 83—95.) argues with solid sense against thelively exotic fancies of sir William Temple. The contempt of the Greeks forbarbaric science, would scarcely admit the Indian or Ethiopia books into the libraryof Alexandria; nor is it proved that philosophy has sustained any real loss fromtheir exclusion. k This curious and authentic intelligence of Murtadi (p. 284—289.) has not beendiscovered either by Ockley, or by the self-sufficient compilers of the Modern lini-yersal History.