OCR Output 1 (2 LATIUM. LATIUM. where its waters add to the stagnation. But theprincipal agents in the formation of those extensivemarshes are the Ufkns and the Amasenus, bothof them flowing from the Volscian mountains anduniting their waters before they reach the sea. Theystill retain their ancient names. Of the lesser .st reamsof Latium, which flow into the'l iber, we need onlymention the celebrated Alma, which falls into thatriver about 11 miles above Rome; the Almo, astill smaller stream, which joins it just below thecity, having previously received the writers of theAqua Ferkntina (now called the Marrana ikgliOrtt), which have their source at the foot of theAlban Hills, near Marino; and the Kivcs Alba­nia (still called the Rico Alixtno), which carries otfthe snperHnous waters of the Alban lake to theTiber, about four miles below Rome. The mountains of Latium, as already mentioned,may be classed into three principal groups:—(I) theApennines, properly so called, including the rangesat the back of Tihur and Praeneste, as well as themountains of the Aequians and Hernicans; (2) thegroup of the Alban Hills, of which the central andloftiest summit (the Monte. Cava) was the properMods Albanus of the ancients, while the part whichfaced Praeneste and the VoUeian Mountains wasknown as the Mons Algidcs; (3) the lofty groupor mass of the Volscian Mountains, frequently calledby modern geographers the Monti Ltpini, thoughwe have no ancient authority for this use of thewon!. The name of Mons Lepinus occurs only in Co­lumella (x. 131), as that of a mountain in the neigh­bourhood of Signia. The Months Cokmci lam(ra Kopt-ijcAa o^ta, Dhmys. i. lfi) must evidentlyhave been the detached group of outlying peaks,wholly separate from the main range of the Apen­nines, now known as the MonticcHL situated betweenthe Tiber and the Monte Gennaro. The MonsSackk, so celebrated in Roman history, was a lucrehill of trilling elevation above the adjoining plain,situated on the right Lank of the Anio, close to theVia Nomentana. It only remains to enumerate the towns or citieswhich existed within the limits of Latium; but asmany of these had disappeared at a very early period,and all trace of their geographical position is lost, itwill l)e necessary in the first instance to confine thisli>t to places of which the site is known, approxi­mately at least, reserving the more obscure namestor subsequent consideration. Beginning from the mouth of the Tiber, the hr-tplace is Ostia, situated on the left bank of theriver, and, as its name imports, originally close to itsmouth, though it is now three miles distant from itA short distance from the coast, and about 8 mile-,from Ostia. was LauRENTUM, the reputed capitalof the Aborigines, situated probably at Torre diPatenib, or at least in that immediate neighbour­hood. A few miles furl her S., but considerablymore inland, being near 4 miles from the sea, wasLavinu m, the site of which may be clearly re­cognised at Prat ha. S. of this again, and aboutthe same distance from the sea, was Aroka, whichretains its ancient name: and la miles further, on aprojecting point of the coast, was Anth'M, stillcalled Porto <f Anzo. Between 9 and 10 milesfurther on along the coa^t, was the town or village ofAstcka, with the islet of the same name; and fromthem e a long tract of barren sandy coast, without nvillage and almost without inhabitants, extended tothe Circeian promontory and the town of Circkh, which was generally reckoned the list place inLatium Proper, Returning to Rome as a centre, wefind N. of the city, and between it and the Sabine, frontier, the cities of Antemnae, Fipenak, Cri s-I tumekium, and Momentum. On or around tie! group of the Montes Corniculaui, were mintedCoitNici'LUM, Medullia, and Amerioia: Ca*1 MKitlA, also, may probably be placed in the sain*I neighbourhood; and a little nearer Rome, on themad leading to Momentum, was Ficitlea. At tbcfoot, or rather on the lower slopes and underulUof the main range of the Apennines, were Tim e,Aesula, and Praeneste, the latter occupying aJ lofty spur or projecting point of the A pennies,I standing out towards the Alban Hills. This latterI group was surrounded as it w ere with a cr -wn or\ circle of ancient towns, beginning with CoebwI ( Rocca Priore), nearly opposite to Praeneste, andcontinued on by Tt'SCtxuM, Alba, and Aricia,to Lanl'viim and Vklitrak, the hist two situatedon projecting offshoots from the central pronp,standing out towards the Pontine Plains. On theskirts of the Volscian mountains or Monti luptti,were situated Signia, Cora, Norba. and Setia,the last three all standing on commanding heights,looking down upon the plain of the Pontine Marshes.In that plain, ami immediately adjoining the mars he*themselves, was Ulcbrae, and in all probabilitySl*kssa Pometia also, the city which gave nannboth to the marshes and plain, but the precise site ofwhich is unknown. The other places within themarshy tract, such as Fokoi Arrn, Tues Tabei:-nak, and Thiponticm, owed their existence to theconstruction of the Via Appia, and did nut represent■ or replace ancient Latin towns. In the level tractI bordering on the Pontine Plains on the and ei-| tending from the foot of the Alban Hills tuwardjAntiuin and Ardea, were situated Satrictm,Longi'LA, PoLLUSCA and CoitioLt: all of tbemplaces of which tlie exact site is still a mattrr>>f; doubt, but which must certainly be sought in thisneighbourhood. Between the Lauremine repioe(Laurens tractus), as the forest district near the ?**was often called, and the Via Appia, was an openlevel tract, to which (or to a part of which) thename of Campcs Solo.nivs was given; and withinthe limits of this district were situated Teu.enakand Poutoritm, as well as probably ApiolaK.Bovillae, at the foot of the Alban lulls, and joston the S. of the Appian Way, was at one ex­tremity of the same tract, while FlOAJfA Stoodat the other, immediately adjoining the Tiber, Inthe portion of the plain of the Campaffna extendingfrom the line of the Via Appia to the foot of theApennines, between the Anio and the Alban Hillsthe only city of which the site is known was Gami.12 miles distant from Rome, and the same distancefrom PraeneMe. Nearer the Apennines were Scat-tia and Pedum, as well as probably Qt/ERQir-tula; while Labickm occupied the hill of La Co-Imna, nearly at the foot of the Alban pmup. Intiie tract which extends southwards between theApennines at Praeneste and the Alban ildl>, so asto connect the plain of the Campagna with the laj dof the Hernicans in the valley of the Trerus orSacco, were situated Vitellia, Tolei:ii m, and pro­bably also Bola and Oktona; though the exact sS:eof all four is a matter of doubt. KcETRA, w hich ap-pears in history as a Volscian city, and is never men­tioned as a Latin one, must nevertheless have bet-nsituated within the limits of the Latin territory, **,>-