OCR Output ah. 54.] 505 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was busy in gathering money, and was infear for the entire ornaments of the temple,he gave him this beam of gold, as a ransomfor the whole; but not till he had given hisoath that he would remove nothing else outof the temple, but be satisfied with this onlywhich he should give him; being worth manythousand shekels. Now this beam was con­tained in a wooden beam that was hollow;but was known to no others, but Eleazaralone. Yet did Crassus take away this beam,upon the condition of touching nothing elsethat belonged to the temple; and then brakehis oath, and carried away all the gold thatwas in the temple. And let no one wonder that there was somuch wealth in our temple; since all theJews throughout the habitable earth, andthose that *worshipped God; nay, even thoseof Asia and Europe sent their contributionsto it; and this from very ancient times. Noris the largeness of these sums without its at­testation; nor is that greatness owing to ourvanity, as raising it without ground to sogreat a height. But there are many witnessesto it, and particularly Strabo of Cappadocia;who says thus—" Mithridates sent to Cos,and took the money which queen Cleopatrahad deposited there; as also eight hundredtalents belonging to the Jews." Now wehave no public money but what appertainsto God. And it is evident, that the AsiaticJews removed this money out of fear ofMithridates. For it is not probable thatthose of Judea, who had a strong city andtemple, should send their money to Cos. Noris it likely that the Jews who are inhabitantsof Alexandriaf should do so neither; sincethey were in no fear of Mithridates. AndStrabo himself bears witness to the samething, in another place; and at the same timethat Sylla passed over into Greece, in orderto fight against Mithridates, he sent Lucullusto put an end to a sedition that our nation, ofwhom the habitable earth is full, had raisedin Cyrene. Where he speaks thus: "Therewere four classes of men among those of Cy­rene; that of citizens; that of husbandmen; * The proselytes. t Spanheim here takes notice of a great deal of otherevidence for the privileges the Jews had at the city Alex­andria. See his note on this place. + Thia citation, I suppose, is wanting. However, see the third of strangers; and the fourth of Jews.Now these Jews are already gotten into allcities; and it is difficult to find a place in thehabitable earth that hath not admitted thistribe of men, and is not possessed by it. Andit hath come to pass that Egypt and Cyreneras having the same governors, and a greatnumber of other nations, imitate their wayof living; and maintain great bodies of theseJews in a peculiar manner; and grow up togreater prosperity with them; and make useof the same laws with that nation. Accord­ingly the Jews have places assigned them inEgypt, wherein they inhabit; besides whatis peculiarly allotted to this nation at Alex­andria; which is a large part of that city.There is also an ethnarch allowed them, whogoverns the nation, and distributes justice tothem; and takes care of their contracts, andof the laws to them belonging; as if he werethe ruler of a free republic. In Egypt there­fore this nation is powerful; because the Jewswere originally Egyptians; and because theland wherein they inhabit, since they wentthence, is near to Egypt. They also removedinto Cyrene, because that this land adjoinedto the government of Egypt, as well as doesJudea; or rather was formerly under thesame government. When Crassus had settled all things as hepleased, he marched into Parthia; whereboth himself, and all his army perished; ashath been Jrelated elsewhere. But Cassiusyas he fled from Rome to Syria, took posses­sion of it; and was an impediment to the Par-thians; who, by their victory over Crassus,made incursions upon it. And as he cam&back to Tyre, he went up into Judea alsorand fell upon Taricheoe, and presently tookit, and carried about thirty thousand Jewscaptives, and slew Pitholaus, who succeeded"Anstobulus in his seditious practices; andthat by the persuasion of Antipater; whoproved to have great interest in him, andwas at that time in great repute with the Idu-means also; for he married a wife, who wasthe daughter of one of their eminent men,and her name was ||Cypros: by whom he Of the War, Book 1. chap. 8. II Dr. Hudson observes, that the name of this wife ofAntipater in Josephus, was Cypres, as a Hebrew termi­nation; but not Cypris, the Greek name for Venus, assome critics were induced to correct it