OCR Output 362 [book x. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. pened because the transgressions of theformer kings were seen no more, but quitevanished away. For the king went about thecity, and the whole country, and cut downthe groves, which were devoted to strangegods, and overthrew their altars; and if therewere any gifts dedicated to them by hisforefathers, he made them ignominious, andplucked them down; and by this means hebrought the people back from their opinionabout them to the worship of God. He alsooffered his accustomed sacrifices and burnt-offerings upon the altar. Moreover he or­dained certain judges and overseers, that theymight order the matters to them severally be­longing, and have regard to justice above allthings, and distribute it with the same con­cern they would have about their own souls.He also sent over all the country, and desiredsuch as pleased to bring gold and silver forthe repairs of the temple, according to everyone's inclination and abilities. And whenthe money was brought in, he made Maaseiah,the governor of the city, Shaphan the scribe,Joah the recorder, and Eliakim the high-priest, curators of the temple, and of thecharges contributed thereto. These personsmade no delay, nor put the works off at all,but prepared architects, and whatsoever wasproper for those repairs, and set closelyabout the work. So the temple was repairedby this means; and became a public demon­stration of the king's piety. In the eighteenth year of his reign,* Josiahsent to Eliakim the high-priest, and gave * An. 624. t Whether it was the whole Pentateuch, or the hookof Deuteronomy only, which the high-priest found in thetemple, it is generally agreed, that the part which Shaphanread to the king was taken out of the book of Deutero­nomy, and not without some probability, that the 28th,29th, and 30th chapters, were that portion of Scripturewhich the secretary who (as we are told 2 Kings xxii. 8.)had read the book before he brought it to the king,thought proper upon this occasion to turn to; for thereinis contained a renewal of the covenant which Moses, asmediator, had made between God and the people of Israelat mount Horeb; and therein are those threats and ter­rible comminutions to the transgressors of the law, whe­ther prince or people, which affected Josiah so much;and which Moses had given to the Levites to put on theside, of the covenant, that it might be there for a witnessagainst the transgressors of it, Dent. xxxi. 25, 26. Cal-met's Commentary. 6. t This is the only mention we have of this prophetess,and certainly it makes much to her renown, that she was order that out of what money was overplus,he should cast cups and dishes, and vials forministration in the temple; and besides, thatthey should bring all the gold and silver whichwas among the treasures, and should expendthat in like manner, in making cups, andother vessels. But as the high-priest wasbringing out the gold, he found the holy booksof Moses,f that were laid up in the temple;and when he had brought them out, he gavethem to Shaphan the scribe; who when hehad read them, came to the king, and in­formed him, that all was finished which hehad ordered to be done. He also read overthe books to him; who when he had heardthem read, rent his garment; and called forEliakim, the high-priest, and for Shaphan thescribe, and for certain other of his most par­ticular friends; and sent them to Huldah,Jthe prophetess, the wife of Shallum; whichShallum was a man of dignity, and of an emi­nent family; and bade them go to her, andsay, that he desired she would appease God,and endeavour to render him propitious tothem; for that there was cause to fear, lestupon the transgression of the laws of Mosesby their forefathers, they should be in perilof going into captivity, and of being cast outof their own country; lest they should be inwant of all things, and so end their daysmiserably. When the prophetess had heardthis, she bade the messengers go back to theking, and say, that "God had already givensentence against them, to destroy the people,and cast them out of their country, and de-consulted upon this weighty occasion, ,when both Jere­miah and Zephaniah were at that time prophets in Judab.But Zephaniah, perhaps at that time might not have com­menced a prophet; because, though we are told that heprophesied in the days of Josiah, Zeph. i. 1. yet we areno where informed, in what part of his reign he enteredupon the prophetic office. Jeremiah too, might at thattime be absent from Jerusalem, at his house at Anathoth,or some more remote part of the kingdom; so that, con­sidering Josiah's haste and impatience, there might be noother remedy at hand to apply to but this woman: Greatis the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us, saysthe king to his ministers, 2 Kings xxii. 13. and thereforehis intent, in sending them, might be to inquire, whetherthere were any hopes of appeasing his wrath, and in whatmanner it was to be done. Being therefore well assuredof this woman's fidelity, in delivering the mind and counselof God, the ministers who went to inquire, concludedrightly, that it was much more considerable, what mes­sage God sent, than, by whose hand it was that he con­veyed it. Pool's Annotations. B.