OCR Output fc.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. n9 nalties of law; and only, if acquitted, to take upon him thecommand. He conjured them, farther, ** to receive no"calumnious accusations against him in his absence;"but if he was really guilty to put him instantly to-'* death $ — that, in common prudence it could not"be justified, to intrust a person, so heavily charged,** with the command of so large an armament, before"his innocence had been regularly explored." But his enemies — apprehensive that, in case he wasbrought to an immediate trial, he would be supportedby all the favour of the soldiery; and, that the people,whose idol he was, might possibly relent, because in com­pliment to him the Argives and some of the Mantineansaccompanied the expedition, — opposed and put osf theprosecution. They put the management of this point iinto the hands of a set of orators, who urged that ** for** the present he might proceed in his voyage, that the* * expedition ought not to be deferred on his account,"and upon his return a day mould be assigned for his"trial." Their design was to gather more heavy mat­ter against him, which in his absence could be moreeasily effected, and then to recal him and force him tohis trial. In short it was resolved that" Alcibiades** should go the voyage." 1 Things being thus determined, and the year nowadvanced to the middle of summer, the fleet set sailfor Sicily. Orders had been iffued before for the bulkof the consederates, and victualling-ships, and smallcraft, and all the tenders in general, , to repair to andassemble together at Coreyra; that, from thence, in abody, they, might cross the Ionian to the cape of Japygia.But such .as were subjects of Athens, and such of theconfederates as were then in the city, marching down tothe Piræus on the appointed day by morning's dawn;went on-board the ships in order to weigh and be gone.They were conducted thither by a great crowd, it maybe laid by the whole crowd of Athens, both citizensand strangers. The former attended, to perform the., I 4 parting