OCR Output INTEMELIL INTERAMNA. 53 Instate (*lyyikiiyTi), the name of a small provinceof Armenia near the sources of the Tigris mentionedby Epiphanius {ITaeres. LX. voL i. p. 505, edValerius; comp. St. Martin, Mem. sur tArt/tenie,toL i. pp. 23, 97.) [E.B. J.] INTEME'LII QlmtfLiXtoi), a maritime people ofLiiruria, situated to the W. of the Ingauni, at thef*4 of the Maritime Alps. They are but littleknown in history, being only once mentioned byLivy, in conjunction with their neighbours, the In­gauni, as addicted to piratical habits, to represswhich their coast was visited by a Roman squadroninB.c.180. (Lir. xL 41.) Strabo speaks of themas a still existing tribe (Strab. iv. p. 202); and theircapital, called Albium Intemelium or Albintemc-lium. now corrupted into Vintimiglia, was in histime a considerable city. [Aluium Istemelium.]We have no means of determining the extent orlimits of their territory; but it seems to have bor­dered on that of the Ingauni on the E., and the Ve-diaotii on the W.: at least, these are the only tribesinentiwed as existing in this part of Liguria bywriters of the Roman Empire. It probably com­prised also the whole valley of the Rutuba orXoja, one of the most considerable of the rivers, orrather mountain torrents, of Liguria, which rises atthe fcot of the Col di Tenda, and fulls into the seaat VMmiglia. [E. H. B.] INTERAMNA {'IrrtpafAva: EOu Interamnaa,-itia), was the name of several cities in different partsof Italy. Its obvious etymology, already pointed outfcj Varro and Festus, indicates their position at theconfluence of two streams (" inter amnes," Van*. L. L.v.28, Fest. c. Amnes, p. 17,Mull.); which is,however,bat partially borne out by their actual situation. Thef »roi IvrKK.oiNttrM (Jlrrtpauvtov), and the ethnicJurm Interamnis, are also found, but more rarely. 1. A Roman colony on the banks of the Liris,thence called, for distinction's sake, Interamna Ll-koias. It was situated on the left or northernbank of the Liris, near the junction of the little riverwhich flows by Aquinum (confounded by Strabowith the MelpiSr a much more considerable stream),and was distant 6 miles from the latter city,and 7 from Casinum. Its territory, which wasincluded in Latium, according to the more ex­tended use of that name, must have originallyUlcnged to the Volscians. but we have no men­tion of Interamna as a Volscian city, nor indeedanv evidence of its existence previous to the establish­ment of the Roman colony there, in u. c. 312. Thista-k place at the same time with that at the neigh-bmmn<: town of Casinum, the object of both beingobviously to secure the fertile valley of the Liris fromthe attacks of the Samnites. (Liv. ix. 28; Diod.air. 105; Veil. Pat. i. 14.) Hence we find, in b. c.294, the territory of Interamna ravaged by the Sam-nite*, who did not, however, venture to attack thecity itself; and, at the opening of the following cam­paign, it was from Interamna that the consul Sp. Car-viUus commenced his operations against Sainnium.(Liv. x. 36, 39.) Its territory was at a later periodUid waste by Hannibal during his march by the ViaLalina from Capua upon Rome, B. c. 212 (Liv. xxvi.TJ): and shortly afterwards the name of Interamnaappears among the twelve refractory colonies whichcc» lared themselves unable to furnish any further■np^ltes, xnd were subsequently (b. c. 204) loadedwith heavier burdens in consequence (Id. xxvii. 9,nii. 15). After the Social War it pasted, in com-cacc with the other Latin colonies-, into the state of a municiplum; and we find repeated mention of itas a municipal town, apparently of some consequence.(Cic Phil. ii. 41, pro Mil. 17; Strab. v. p. 237;Plin. hi. 5. 6. 9.) It received a colony under theSecond Triumvirate, but does not appear to have en­joyed colonial rank, several inscriptions of imperialtimes giving it only the title of a municipium. {Lib.Col p. 234; Orcll. Inter. 2357, 3828.) Its por­tion at some distance from the line of the Via Latinawas probably unfavourable to its prosperity in latertimes: from the same cause its name is not found inthe Itineraries, and we have no means of tracing itsexistence after the fall of the Roman Empire. Theperiod at which it was ruined or deserted is unknown;but mention is found in documents of the middleages of a "Castrum Teranic," and the site of theancient city, though now entirely uninhabited, isstill called Teraine. It presents extensive remainsof ancient buildings, with vestiges of the walls, streets,and aqueducts; and numerous inscriptions and otherobjects of antiquity have been discovered there,which are preserved in the neighbouring villages.(Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 384; Cluver, Hal. p. 1039.The inscriptions are given by Moinmsen, Inter. Regn.Neap. pp. 221,222.) Pliny calls the citizens of this Interamna " Inter-amnales Succasini, qui et Lirinatas vocantur." Theformer appellation was evidently bestowed from theirsituation in the neighbourhood of Casinum, but isnot adopted by any other author. They are calledin inscriptions "Interamnates Lirinates," and some­times "Lirinates" alone: hence it is probable thatwe should read uLirinatum" for "Larinatum" inSilius Italicus (viii. 402), where ho is enumeratingVolscian cities, and hence the mention of Laiinumwould be wholly out of place. 2. (7*erni),&city of Umbria, situated on the riverNar, a little below its confluence with the Velinus,and about 8 miles E. from Narnia. It was sur­rounded by a branch of the river, so as to be in factsituated on an island, whence it derived its name.The inhabitants are termed by Pliny " Iuteramnntescognomine Nartes," to distinguish them from thoseof the other towns of the name; and we find themdesignated in inscriptions as Interamnates Nartes andNahartes; but we do not find this epithet applied tothe city itself. No mention is found of Interamna inhistory previous to its passing under the Romanyoke; but there is no doubt that it was an ancientUmbrian city, and an inscription of the time of Ti­berius has preserved to us the local tradition that itwas founded in b. c. 672, or rather more than 80years after Rome. (Orell. Inscr. 689.) When wefirst hear of Interamna in history it appears as aflourishing municijal town, deriving great wealthfrom the fertility of its territory, which was irrigatedby the river Nar. Hence it is said to have been, asearly as the civil wars of Marius and Sulla, one ofthe "florentissima Italiae municipia" (Florus, iii.21); and though it suffered a severe blow upon thatoccasion, its lands being confiscated by Sulla andportioned out among his soldiers, we still find itmentioned by Cicero in a manner that proves it tohave been a place of importance (Cic ad Att. iv.15), Its inhabitants were frequently engaged in li­tigation and disputes with their neighbours of Reate,on account of the regulation of the waters of the Ve­linus, which joins the Nar a few miles above Inter­amna; and under the reign of Tiberius they wereobliged to enter an energetic protest against a pro­ject that had been started for turning aside the K 4