OCR Output 458 OASES. OASES. KhargeX) and the Lesser (EUDakhd) were bothaccounted Domes of Aegypt, we may Curly inferthat tlie ten days1 journey to Ammonium is com­puted from one of tbem, i. e. from a point con­sidered as proper Aegyptian ground. Now, not onlydoes the road from Thebes to Ammonium He throughor beside the Greater and Lesser Oasis, but their re­spective distances from the extremities of the journeywill give nearly the number of days required. ForEl-Khargth, the Great Oasis, is seven days'journeyfrom Thebes; and thirty hours, or(15 x 2) nearly twodays more, are required for reaching the Lesser Oasis;from whence to Ammonium is a journey of eightdays, which, allowing two days for passing throughthe Oases themsolves. give just the twenty days re-quitiite for performing the distance. There were tworoads which led from Thebes to Oasis Magna. Theshorter one bearing N. by Abydus. the other bear­ing S. by Latopolis. For the former forty-twohours, for the hitter fifty-two, were required, toreach the Great Oasis. (Cailliaud, Voyage it I Oasisde Tkebes, 1813.) The Oasis of Ammonium isabout six miles in length, anil three in breadth. Thesoil is strongly impregnated with halt of a linoquality, which was anciently in great request, bothfor religious purposes and the tables of the Persiankings. (Arrian, Annb. iii. 41.) but notwithstand­ing its saline ingredients, the ground is abundantlyirrigated by water-springs, one of which, "theFountain of the Sun," attracted the wonder of Hero­dotus, and ancient travellers generally (iv. 1S1;Com p. Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt and Thebes, vol. ii. p.358). It rises in a grove of dates, S. of the Temple ofAmnion, and was probably one of those tepid springs,found in other Oases also, the high temperature ofwhich is not observed during the heat of the day,but which, by night, are perceptibly warmer thanthe surrounding atmosphere. A small brook runningfrom this fountain flows soon into another spring,also arising in the date-grove; and their unitedwaters run towards the temple, and, probably be­cause their ancient outlets are blocked up. end ina swamp. The vicinity of these brooks confirms thestatement of Herodotus, that in Ammonium aremany wells of fresh water (iv. 181). The early and high cultivation of this Oasis isstill attested by the abundance of its dates, pome­granates, and other fruits. The dates are obtainedin vast quantities, and are of very fine flavour. Infavourable seasons the whole area of Ammonium iscovered with this fruit, and the annual produceamounts to from 5000 to 9000 camel-loads of300 piunds each. Oxen and sheep are bred in con­siderable numbers; but the camel di»es not thrivein Ammonium, probably because of the dampness ofthe soil. The inhabitants accordingly do not exporttheir own harvests, but await the caravans whichconvey them to Aegypt and the Mediterranean ports.(MinutoU, pp. 89, 90, 91, 174, 175, Sec.) The pre­sent population of this Oasis is about 8000; but an­ciently, when it was at once the seat of an oracle,the centre of attraction to innumerable pilgrims, andone of the principal stations of the Libyan land-trade, the permanent as well as the casual populationmu^t have been much more considerable. The ruinsof the Temple of Amman are found at Umnubi'da,sometimes called Birbe,— the Ummesogcir of Horne-mann (7Vurt /.«, vol. i. p. 106), about 8 miles from theprincipal village and castle. Its style and arrange­ment bespeak its Aegyptiafl origin and its appropria­tion to the worship of Amftn, the ramheaded god of Thebes; yet the buildings (the oracle itself was miolder) are probably not earlier than the Persian enof Aegypt. The remains of the Ammonium oosssflof two jiarts — a pronaos and a sekos, or tauoonrjproper. The walls are entirely composwi of bMstones, obtained from quarries tbout 2 miVs off Tksurface of the temple, both within and wiihr>Qt,n8Jcovered with hieroglyphics emblematic of tbeSSB]and transfigurations ot Zeus-Ammon. The phisurface of the walls was hiebly coloured; mthough many of the sculptures are murh cc&tfdthe blue and green colours are btill bright. 11temple itself was of moderate size, and tht otftilage or enclosure of the whole is not mure lias 7paces in length and 66 in breadth. The population of this Oasis was, in theHerodotus (ii. 32), partly Aegyptian and nanAethiopian,—both nations agreeing in theirto Zens-Amnion. The Greeks, indeed, whohave become acquainted with Ammonium soastheir colonisation of Cyrene in the seventh «n. c. put in their claims to a share, at hast,foundation. According to one tradition,a colony thither (I)iodor. xvii. 50); ianother, its oracle was established contem]with that at Dodona, the most ancientGreece, (llerod. ii. 54.) The name of theKtearchus, mentioned by Herndotna in histhe Nasamones, if the f »rm be correctlyalso a Greek aspect. (Herod, ii. 32.)be no doubt, however, that Ammoniumfrom the East, and not by colonist* fromthe North. At the present day El-Sitcah contains f.«rtowns, of which the principal is Ktbir; and2 miles from Ktbir is an ancient fortrwsShnrgith, old enough to have been ocr npisslRoman garrison. (Minntoli, pp. 165—167).governed by its own chiefs or shieks, wb»small annual tribute to the viceroy of AegyyLOasis, though known to Arabian writers of tteenth century a. p., was first reopened to Eiby the travels of Browne and Hornemaxui incentury. 2. Proceeding in a BW, direction, and inearer to Aegypt, we come to the OaaavEl-Furaj'rth, but of which the ancient mmrecorded. It lay nearly N. of Oasis Minor,tance of about m> miles, and served u aadiate station Iwth to Ammonium and Oases 3. Oasis Minor ("Ooo-ir M**prf. Pfa4. iv. 5.ri Ztvripa, Strab. xvii. p. 813; O. Minor,/Or. c. 143: the modern El-DaUxl\ waSE. of Ammonium, and nearly dae W. ofOxvrvnehus and the Arsinotte name (lat" 29° 1U' N. Like El SiicaA, thecontains warm springs, and is well irricaxed.the Komnus it was celebrated for itsnow its chief productions are dates, oltv«a,nates, and other fruits. It has a templeof the Ptolemaic era. The Lesser Oaau sfrom the (ireater by a high calcareousstation between them was probably a!temple of Ain Amour. (Cailliaud,Oasis Minor wins to be the same withby some Christian writers (e. pCkrysosL p. 195) % ytfns* r«r M"Oasa, ubi gens est Mazicorum** (J,Patrum, c. 12), the Mazyci of the Regiobeing the people indicated. 4. Oasis I kinytiieos. or the? Oasis of