OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.. y ministers of death. Two officers of rank, who were intrusted withthat commission, placed Cyprian between them in a chariot, and as theproconsul was not then at leisure, they conducted him not to a pri­son, but to a private house in Carthage, which belonged to one ofthem. An elegant supper was provided for the entertainment of thebishop, and his Christian friends were permitted for the last timeto enjoy his society, whilst the streets were filled with a multitudeof the faithful, anxious and alarmed for the approaching fate oftheir spiritual father *5. In the morning he appeared before the tri­bunal of the proconsul, who, after informing himself of the nameand situation of Cyprian, commanded him to offer sacrifice, andpressed him to reflect on the consequences of his disobedience. Therefusal of Cyprian was firm and decisive; and the magistrate, whenhe had taken the opinion of his council, pronounced with somereluctance the sentence of death. It was conceived in the followingterms: "That Thascius Cyprianus should be immediately beheaded,"as the enemy of the gods of Rome, and as the chief and ring-"leader of a criminal association, which he had seduced into an"impious resistance against the laws of the most holy emperor6,"Valerian and Gallienus 86." The manner of his execution wasthe mildest and least painful that could be inflicted on a person con­victed of any capital offence: nor was the use of torture admitted toobtain from the Bishop of Carthage either the recantation of hisprinciples, or the discovery of his accomplices. As soon as the sentence was proclaimed, a general cry of " We His martyr-"will die with him," arose at once among the listening multitude dom'of Christians who waited before the palace gates. The generouseffusions of their zeal and affection were neither serviceable toCyprian nor dangerous to themselves. He was led away under aguard of tribunes and centurions, without resistance and withoutinsult to the place of his execution, a spacious and level plain nearthe city, which was already filled with great numbers of specta-