OCR Output B. IV. 361 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. " many of them, as could claim the merit of having done" signal service to the Lacedaemonians in the present war," should enter their claims, and be rewarded with freedom."The view in this was to sound them, imagining that such,who had the greatness of spirit to claim their freedom in re­quital of their merit, must be also the ripest for rebellion.About two thousand claimants were adjudged worthy, andaccordingly were led about in solemn procession to thetemples, crowned with garlands, as men honoured with theirfreedom. But, in no long time after, they made away withthem all, nor hath the world been able to discover, in whatmanner they were thus to a man destroyed. Now also, with alacrity they sent away seven hundred oftheir heavy-armed under the orders of Brasidas. The restof his body were mercenaries, whom he had hired in Pelo­ponnesus. And it was in compliance with his own particu­lar desire, that Brasidas was employed in this service by theLacedaemonians. The Chalcidfeans, however, were highly satisfied with aperson, who had ever passed in Sparta for one of the mostactive and accomplished citizens ; and who, in his foreignemployments, had performed very signal services for hiscountry. From his first appearance amongst them, his jus­tice and moderation so instantly recommended them to theadjacent cities, that some voluntarily submitted, and otherswere by intrigue put into his possession. By him the Lace­daemonians were actually impowered, if the accommodationthey wished for took place, which it afterwards did, to makeexchange and restitution of towns, and so relieve Pelopon­nesus from the hardships of the war. Nay more, even in succeeding time, upon the breakingout of the Sicilian war, the virtue and prudence of Brasi­das exerted at this juncture, which some attested by their ownexperience, others upon sound and unsuspected report, im­printed a zeal on the confederates of Athens to go over tothe Lacedaemonians. Fpr, having been the first sent out to