OCR Output 570 TITUS UVHIS* BOOK IV. tor, he was acquitted by all the tribes. The memory ofhis venerable father Cincinnatus, is said to have been ofgreat use to him on this occasion, and the intercession ofCapitolinus Quiuctius, now spent with years, who in-treated the people, in the m«st humble manner, thatnow when his life was so near a close, they would notmake him the messenger of news so very distressing toCincinnatus. CHAP. XLII. Generous conduct of the four Tribunes, with respect aSeaipronius. SEX. TEMPANIUS, A. Selling, L. Antistius, Sex.Pompilius, in their absence, were elected tribunes bythe people. The three last, the horse had chosen fortheir centurions, by the advice of Tempanius. The senatefinding, that the name of consul, out of odium to Seru-pronius, gave offence, ordered military tribunes, withconsular power, 10 be created; in consequence of which,the choice fell upon L. Maulius Capitolinus, (1. AntoniusMerenda, and L. Papirius Mugillanus. In the begin­ning of the year, L. Hortensius, one of the tribunes,cite: Sempronius, the late consul to take his trial; and'when four of his colleagues conjured him, in presence ofthe Roman people, not to harrass their general, who wasinnocent, and could be reproached with nothing but bisill fortune; Hortensius took it amiss, imagining theyonly meant to try his resolution, as the delinquent ratherdepended on the assistance, than -the mediation of thetribunes, which was intended only for show: wherefore,turning immediately to Sempronius, he asked him, • Whatwas become of his Patrician spirit, and that confidencewith which a consciousness of innocence would inspirehim, when he, a consul took shelter under the shadowof the tribunes?' Then turning to his colleagues: • Butif I should persist in my prosecution of this delinquent,what part will you act? Will you rob the people oftheir judicative privileges, and overturn the power ofthe iribunes?' They replied, that the Roman peoplehad indisputably a supreme authority over Seraprooni*