OCR Output 48 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV Cbaeronea; all northern Greece was evacuated, and only asmall portion of the Achaean army and of the citizens ofThebes, who fled in a body, reached the Peloponnesus. Metel-lus sought by the utmost moderation to induce the Greeks toabandon their foolish resistance, and gave orders, for ex­ample, that all the Thebans, with a single exception, shouldbe allowed their liberty; his well-meant endeavours werethwarted not by the energy of the people, but by thedesperation of the leaders apprehensive for their own safety.Diaeus, who after the fall of Critolaus had resumed the chiefcommand, summoned all men capable of bearing arms tothe isthmus, and ordered 12,000 slaves, natives of Greece,to be enrolled in the army; the rich were applied to foradvances, and the ranks of the friends of peace, so far asthey did not purchase their lives by bribing their tyrannicalmasters, were thinned by bloody prosecutions. The waraccordingly was continued, and after the same style. TheAchaean vanguard, which, 4000 strong, was stationed underAlcamenes at Megara, dispersed as soon as it saw theRoman standards. Metellus was just about to order anattack upon the main force on the isthmus, when the consulLucius Mummius with a few attendants arrived at theRoman head-quarters and took the command. Meanwhilethe Achaeans, emboldened by a successful attack on the toounguarded Roman outposts, offered battle to the Romanarmy, which was about twice as strong, at Leucopetra on theisthmus. The Romans were not slow to accept it. Atthe very first the Achaean horsemen broke off en masse beforethe Roman cavalry of six times their strengh; the hopliteswithstood the enemy till a flank attack by the Romanselect corps brought confusion into their ranks. This termi-■ nated the resistance. Diaeus fled to his home, put his wife to death, and took poison himself. All the cities submittedwithout opposition; and even the impregnable Corinth, intowhich Mummius for three days hesitated to enter because hefeared anambush, was occupied by the Romans without ablow.Province of The renewed regulation of the affairs of Greece wasAchaia. intrusted to a commission of ten senators in concert withthe consul Mummius, who left behind him on the wholea favourable reputation in the conquered country. Doubt­less it was, to say the least, a foolish thing in him to assumethe name of "Achaicus" on account of his feats of war andvictory, and to build in the fulness of his gratitude a temple