OCR Output B. II. TEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 161 country one continued devastation ; for the time of their con­tinuance in Attica was about forty days. The same summer, Agnon, the son of Nicias, and Cleo-pompus, the son of Clinius, joined in the command with Pe­ricles, setting themselves at the head of the force which hehad employed before, carried them without loss of timeagainst the Chalcideans of Thrace. But when they werecome up to Potideea, which was still besieged, they playedtheir engines of battery against, and left no method unat-tempted to take it. But the success in this attempt did notanswer expectation, nor indeed was the event in any respectthe least proportioned to their great preparations ; For theplague followed them even hither, and making grievous havocamong the Athenians, destroyed the army ; so that even thosesoldiers that had been there before, and had from the begin­ning of the siege been in perfect health, caught the infection from the troops brought thither by Agnon. Phormio, and the body of sixteen hundred men under his command, had be­fore this quitted Chalcidico, so that Agnon sailed back withthe ships to Athens, of his four thousand men the plaguehaving swept away one thousand and fifty in about forty days :But the soldiers who were there before were left to carry onthe siege of Potidaea. After the second incursion of the Peloponnesians, theAthenians, whose lands were now a second time laid waste,who felt the double affliction of pestilence and war, had en­tirely changed their sentiments of things. The blame wasuniversally thrown on Pericles, as if at his instigatiou theyhad engaged in this war, and by him had been plunged in allthese calamities. They desired with impatience to make updie breach with the Lacedaemonians; but though they dis­patched an embassy for this purpose no terms could be agreedon. Thus grievously distressed, and no method of resourceoccurring to their minds, their resentments fell still heavieron Pericles. He, seeing them quite dispirited with their pre­sent misfortunes, and intent on such projects as he had reason