OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. the faithful dog and the rapacious wolf, was applied byan ambassador who received only verbal instructionsfrom the mouth of his illiterate prince.m The Bulga­rians, of whatsoever species, were equally attracted byRoman wealth: they assumed a vague dominion overthe Sclavonian name, and their rapid marches could onlybe stopped by the Baltic sea, or the extreme cold andpoverty of the north. But the same race of Sclavoniansappears to have maintained, in every age, the possessionof the same countries. Their numerous tribes, however■ distant or adverse, used one common language (it washarsh and irregular), and were "known by the resemblanceof their form, which deviated from the swarthy Tartar,and approached, without attaining, the lofty stature andfair complexion of the German. Four thousand sixhundred villages" were scattered over the provinces ofRussia and Poland, and their huts were hastily built ofrough timber, in a country deficient both in stone andiron. Erected, or rather concealed, in the depth offorests, on the banks of rivers, or the edge of morasses,we may not, perhaps, without flattery, compare them tothe architecture of the beaver; which they resembled in adouble issue, to the land and water, for the escape of thesavage inhabitants, an animal less cleanly, less diligent,and less social, than that marvellous quadruped. Thefertility of the soil, rather than the labour of the natives,supplied the rustic plenty of the Sclavonians. Theirsheep and horned cattle were large and numerous, andthe fields which they sowed with millet and panic," af­forded, in the place of bread, a coarse and less nutritive 111 Procopiu3. (Gotli. lib. 4. c. 19.) His verbal message (he owns himself an illi­terate barbarian) is delivered as an epistle. The style is savage, figurative, andoriginal. 11 This sum is the result of a particular list, in a curious MS. fragment of the year550, found in the library of Milan. The obscure geography of the times provokesand exercises the patience of the count de Boat. (torn. 11. p. 69—189.) The Frenchminister often loses himself in a wilderness which requires a Saxon and Polishguide. , "Panicum milium. See Columella, lib. 2. c. 9. p. 430. edit. Gesner. Plin. Hist.Nstur. 18. 84, 25. The Sarmatians made a pap of millet, mingled with mare's milkor blood. In tho wealth of modern husbandry, our millet feeds poultry, and not he-rues. See the dictionaries of ISowarc and Miller.