OCR Output MACISTUS. 213 MACORABA. •a heavy and foggy, showery and hot. but pro­ducing excellent fruit. The cultivation of the vinewas peculiar. They were planted in the marches,the soil necessary for their sustenance being placedin wicker baskets. They would sometimes driftfrom their moorings, and were thrust back to theirplaces with poles. [G. W.] MACISTUS or MACISTUM (McWtos, toKiiturror -. £th. Maxfo-Tios), a town of Triphylia,in Elis, said to have been also called Platan istus.(nXccrartoTovs, Strab. viii. p. 345.) It was origi­nally inhabited by the Paroreatae and Caucones,who were driven out by the Minyae. (Strab. /. c.;Herod, iv. 148.) It was afterwards subdued by theKleians, and became one of their dependent town­ships whose history is given under Lkpkkum. Inthe time of Strabo, it was no longer inhabited (viii.p. 349). Macistus was situated upon a lofty hillin the north of Triphylia, and appears to have beenthe chief town in the north of the district, asLepreum was in the south. That Macistus was inthe north of Triphylia appears from several circum­stances. Strabo describes its territory, the Macistia,as bordering upon Pisatis. (Strab. viii. p. 343.)Agis, in his invasion of the territory of Elis, in B. c.400. wlien he entered Triphylia through the Anionof Messenia, was first joined by the Lepreatae, nextby the Macistii, and then by the Epitalii on theAlpheiua. (Xen. Htll. iii. 2. § 25.) Stephanusplaces Macistus to the westward of the Lepreatis(Stepli. B. t. ».); but this is obviously an error, asArcadia bordered upon the Lepreatis in that direc­tion. Macistus would appear to have been in theneighbourhood of Sainicum upon the coast, as it hadthe superintendence of the celebrated temple of theSimian Poseidon at this place. (Stiab. viii. p. 343.)From these circumstances there can be little doubtthat Macistus was situated upon the heights ofKhaMJfa. It Li worthy of notice that Pausanias and Polybiusmention only Samicum, and Xenophon only Macistus.This fact, taken in connection with the Macistianslaving the superintendence of the temple of theSimian Poseidon, has led to the conjecture that uponthe decay of Samoa upon the coast, the Minyanibuilt Macistus upon the heights above; but that theancient name of the place was afterwards revived inthe form of Samicum. The Macistians had a temple«f Hercules situated upon the coast near the Acidon.(Strab. viii. p. 348.) (Lrf-ake, Morea, vol. ii. p. 206; Pelopormesuica,p. 217; Boblaye, Hecherchei, <fc., p. 135; Curtius,I'elnprrmiaoa, voL ii. p. 83.) MACJJA (Macro), an inland town of ArabiaFelix, according to Ptolemy (vi. 7.), who places itin Ut. 67°, long. 28° 45', near the Aelanitic gulfof the Bed Sea, now the GulfofAkaba. [G. W.] MACORABA (MaxopASa), an inland city ofArabia Felix, placed by Ptolemy in lat. 73° 20',king. 22°, universally admitted to be the ancientclassical representative of the modern Mekka orMecca, which Mr. For-ter holds to be an idiomaticabbreviation of Macboraba, identical with Arabic"Mecharab," "the warlike city," or "the city ofthe Harb." {Grog, of Arabia, vol. i. pp. 265, 266.)A very high antiquity is claimed for this city inthe native traditions, but the absence of all authenticnotices of it in the ancient geographers must beallowed to disprove its claim to notoriety on accounttf its sanctity at any very remote period. Theterrilury of MtkJca was, according to universal Arabian history or tradition, the central seat of thekingdom of Jorham and the Jorhamites, descendantsof the Johtamite patriarch Sherah, the Jerah of thebook of Genesis (x. 26), who in the earliest timeswere the sovereigns of Mekka, the guardians of theCaaba, and the superintendents of the idolatroussacrifices in the valley of Mina, from whence theyderived their classical synonym Minaki. It isquite uncertain when they were superseded by theIshmaelite Arabs of the family of Kedar, whosedescendants, according to immemorial Arabic tra­dition, settled in the Hedjaz; and one tribe of whomwas named Kortisk (collegit undique), " quod circaMeccam, congregati degerentr (Canus ap. Golium,in voc., cited by Forster, Geog. of Arabia, vol. i.p. 248, n.) This tribe, however, from which Mo­hammed sprung, had been for centuries the guardiansof the Caaba, and lords of Mekka, prior to his ap­pearance : for if the very plausible etymology andimport of the classical name, as above given, be cor­rect, and the Beni-Harb was, as Mr. Forster haselaborately proved, a synonym for the sons of Kedar,it will follow that they had succeeded in fixingtheir name to the capital some time before it ap­peared in Ptolemy's list, nor can any traces of amore ancient name be discovered, nor any noticesof the ancient city, further than the bare mentionof its name by the Alexandrian geographer. "Mekka, sometimes also called Bekka, whichwords are synonymous, and signify a place of greatconcourse, is certainly one of the most ancient citiesin the world. It is by some thought to be the Mesaof Scripture (Gen. x. 30), a name not unknown tothe Arabians, and supposed to be taken from one oflshmael's sons" (Gen. xxv. 15). (Sale's Koran,Preliminary Discourse, sect. i. p. 4.) Its situationis thus described by Burckhardt: —" The town issituated in a valley, narrow and sandy, the maindirection of which is from north to south; but itinclines towards the north-west near the southernextremity of the town. In breadth this valleyvaries from one hundred to seven hundred paces,the chief part of the city being placed where thevalley is most broad. The town itself covers aspace of about 1500 paces in length ; .... but thewhole extent of ground comprehended under thedenomination of Mekka" (i. e. including the suburbs)"amounts to 3500 paces. The mountains enclosingthis valley (which before the town was built theArabs had named Wady Mekka or Bekka) are from200 to 500 feet in height, completely barren and destitute of trees Most of the town is situated in the valley itself; but there are also parts builton the sides of the mountains, principally of theeastern chain, where the primitive habitations ofthe Koreysh and the ancient town appear to havebeen placed." It is described as a handsome town;with streets broader, and stone houses more lofty,than in other Eastern cities: but since the decline ofthe pilgrimage "numerous buildings in the outskirtshave fallen completely into ruin, and the town itselfexhibits in every street houses rapidly decaying."Its population has declined in proportion. The resultsof Burckhardt's inquiries gave "between 25,000and 30,000 stationary inhabitants for the populationof the city and suburbs, besides from 3000 to4000 Abyssinians and black slaves: its habitationsare capable of containing three times this number."This estimate, however, shows a considerable increasewithin the last three centuries; for "in the time ofSultan Selym I. (in A. II. 923, i. e. A.D. 1517) a