OCR Output 324 ANTIOCIIUS, KING OF COMMAOENE. [B. VH. care about the matter, since this discovery was made; for theneighborhood of the kingdoms made this affair worthy of agreater regard: for Samosata, the capital of Commagene, liesupon Euphrates, and upon any such design could afford aneasy passage over it to the Parthians, and could also affordthem a secure reception. Petus was, accordingly, believed,and had authority given him of doing what he should thinkproper in the case; so he set about it without delay, and fellupon Commagene before Antiochus and his people had theleast expectation of his coming: he had with him the tenthlegion, as also some cohorts and troops of horsemen. Thesekings also came to his assistance, Aristobulus, king of thecountry called Chaleidene, and Sohemus, who was called kingof Emesa. Nor was there any opposition made to his forceswhen they entered the kingdom; for no one of that countrywould so much as lift up his hand against them. When An­tiochus heard this unexpected news, he could not think in theleast of making war with the Romans, but determined to leavehis whole kingdom in the state wherein it now was, and toretire privately, with his wife and children, as thinking therebyto demonstrate himself to the Romans to be innocent as tothe accusation laid against him. So he went away from thatcity as far as a hundred and twenty furlongs, into a plain,and there pitched his tents. 2. Petus then sent some of his men to seize upon Samosata,and by their means took possession of that city, while he wenthimself to attack Antiochus with the rest of his army. How­ever, the king was not prevailed upon by the distress he wasin to do any thing in the way of war against the Romans, butbemoaned his own hard fate, and endured with patience whathe was not able to prevent. But his sons, who were youngand unexperienced in war, but of strong bodies, were noteasily induced to bear this calamity without fighting. Epi-phanes, therefore, and Callinicus, betook themselves to mili­tary force: and as the battle was a sore one, and lasted allthe day long, they showed their own valor in a remarkablemanner, and nothing but the approach of night put a periodthereto, aud that without any diminution of their forces: yet