OCR Output an. 1532.] 83 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. might not be able to get their share, by rea­son of the overbearing of the strong in col­lecting it. However, these strong men, whenthey had gathered more than the measureappointed for them, they had no more thanothers, but only tired themselves more ingathering it; for they found no more than ahomer a piece, and the advantage they got bywhat was superfluous was none at all, as itcorrupted, both by worms breeding in it, andby its bitterness. So divine and wonderful afood was this! It also supplied the want ofother sorts of food to those that fed on it;and even now,* in all that place, this mannacomes down in rain, according to what Mosesthen obtained of God, to send it the peoplefor their sustenance. Now the Hebrews callthis food manna,f for the particle man in ourlanguage is the asking of a question, what isthis? So the Hebrews were very joyful atwhat was sent them from heaven, and theymade use of this food for forty years,J or aslong as they remained in the wilderness. As soon as they removed thence, they cameto Rephidim,|| distressed to the last degreeby thirst: for, though in the foregoing daysthey had met with a few small fountains, theynow found the earth entirely destitute of wa­ter, and were in an evil case. They againturned their anger against Moses; but he atfirst avoided the fury of the multitude, andthen betook himself to prayer, beseechingGod, that as he had given them food whenthey were in the greatest want of it, so hewould give them drink, since the favour ofgiving them food was of no value to them-while they had nothing to drink. God didnot long delay to grant this request, but pro­mised that he would procure them a fountain,and plenty of water from a place where they did not expect any; so he commanded Mosesto smite the rock§ which they saw lying therewith his rod, and out of it to receive plentyin what they wanted; for he had taken carethat drink should come to them without anylabour or exertion. When Moses had re­ceived this command, he came to the peoplewho waited for and looked upon him, for theysaw already that he was coming apace fromhis eminence. As soon as he was come, hetold them, that God would deliver them fromtheir present distress, and had granted theman unexpected favour, and informed them thata river should run for their sakes out of therock; but they were amazed at that hearing,supposing they were of necessity to cut therock in pieces now they were distressed bytheir thirst, and by their journey. Moses,however, by only smiting the rock with hisrod, opened a passage, and out of it burstwater in great abundance, and very clear;while they were astonished at this wonderfuleffect, and as it were quenched their thirstby the very sight of it: so they drank thispleasant, this sweet water, and such it seemedto be, as might well be expected where Godwas the donor. They were also in admira­tion how Moses was honoured by God, andthey made grateful returns of sacrifices toGod for his providence towards them. Nowthat scripture which is laid up in the temple**informs us how God foretold to Moses, thatwater should in this manner be derived outof the rock. CHAP. II. OF THE HOSTILITIES COMMITTED AGAINST THE HEBREWS BYTHE AMALEKITES, AND OF THEIR COMPLETE DEFEAT. HE name of the Hebrews began alreadyto be every where renowned, and ru- T * This supposal that the sweet honey dew, or manna, socelebrated in ancient and modern authors, as falling usu­ally in Arabia, was of the very same sort with the mannasent to the Israelites, savours more of Gentilism than ofJudaism or Christianity. It is not improbable that someancient Gentile author, read by Josephus, thought so, norwould he here contradict him, though just before, and IV.3, he seems directly to allow that it had not been seen pre­viously. However, this food from heaven is here describedby the word v'i<pei6au, that it fell like snow; and in Artapa-nus, a heathen writer, it is compared to meal, like to oat­meal, in colour like to snow, rained down by God. Essayon the Old Test. Appendix, page 239. But as to the deri­vation of the word manna, whether from man, which Jose-phas says then signified, what is it? or from manah, to VOI-. I. No. 7. divide, i. e. a dividend, or portion allotted to every one, itis uncertain. I incline to the latter derivation. Thismanna is called angels' food, Ps. lxxviii. 25. and by ourSaviour, John vi. 31. as well as by Josephus here and else­where, said to be sent to the Jews from heaven. t Exod. xvi. 15. t From an. 1532 to 1429, B. C. II Exod. xvii. 1. § This rock is here at this day, as modern travellersagree, and must be the same that was there in the days ofMoses. ** Note here, that the small book of the principal lawsof Moses is ever said to be laid npin the holy house itself,but the larger Pentateuch somewhere within the limits ofthe temple and its courts only. See V. 1. VI. 4. X. 4. •.