OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. and opinion; and his laborious compilations are guardedby the sages and legislators of past times. Instead of astatue cast in a simple mould by the hand of an artist,the works of Justinian represent a tesselated pavement ofantique and costly, but too often of incoherent, fragments.In the first year of his reign, he directed the faithful Tri-bonian, and nine learned associates, to revise the ordi­nances of his predecessors, as they were contained, sincethe time of Hadrian, in the Gregorian, Hermogenianjand Theodosian codes; to purge the errors and contra­dictions, to retrench whatever was obsolete or superflu­ous, and to select the wise and salutary laws best adaptedto the practice of the tribunals and the use of his subjects.The work was accomplished in fourteen months; andthe twelve books or tables, which the new decemvirsproduced, might be designed to imitate the labours oftheir Roman predecessors. The new code of Justinianwas honoured with his name, and confirmed by his royalsignature: authentic transcripts were multiplied by thepens of notaries and scribes; they were transmitted tothe magistrates of the European, the Asiatic, and after­ward the African provinces: and the law of the empirewas proclaimed on solemn festivals at the doors ofchurches. A more arduous operation was still behind:to extract the spirit of jurisprudence from the decisionsand conjectures, the questions and disputes, of the Ro­man civilians. Seventeen lawyers, with Tribonian attheir head, were appointed by the emperor to exercise anabsolute jurisdiction over the works of their predecessors.If they had obeyed his commands in ten years, Justinianwould have been satisfied with their diligence; and therapid composition of the digest or pandects/ in threeyears, will deserve praise or censure, according to the f nav5sitrai (general receivers) was a common title of the Greek miscellanies.(Plin. Praefat. ad Hist. Natur.) The digesta of Scaevola, Marcellinua, Celsns, wereatready familiar to the civilians: but Justinian was in the wrong when be used thaitwo appellations as synonymous. Is the word Pandects Greek or Latin—masculineor feminine? The diligent Branckman will not presume to decide these momcutom,controversies. (Hist. Paudect. Floreptin. p. 300—30-1.)