OCR Output 286 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII. time provinces of Asia. Even Tissaphernes concernedhimself now to inflame the Peloponnesian ardour, andpromised them larpe supplies. For lately he had beensummoned by the king to make returns of the revenueof his government; which not being able to exact fromthe Grecian cities, because of the Athenians, he was runinto a large arrear. He concluded, therefore, that,could he demolish the Athenians, he then with greatease might levy the tributes; what is more, might makethe Lacedæmonians confederates to the king; and mightat length convey to him, either aiive or dead, Amor-ges, the bastard-son of Pissuthnes, who had revolted inCaria, as the king had expressly commanded. TheChians, therefore, and Tissaphernes, were now nego­tiating this point in concert. Calligitus, the son of Laophon, a Megarean, and Ti-magoras, the son of Athenagoras, a Cyzicene, both ex­iles from their native places, and refuged with Phar-nabazus, the son of Pharnabacus, arrive at Lacedæmonabout the same point of time, commissioned by Pharna-bazus to procure an aid of (hipping for the Hellespont,by which he might be enabled (the very same thing asTissaphernes desired) to work the revolt of the citieswithin his district from the Athenian obedience, be­cause of the tributes, and expeditioufly to gain for him­self the credit of having procured for his master the al­liance of the Lacedæmonians. As the agents of Phar-nabazus and those also of Tissaphernes were negotiatingthe same point; though apart from each other, a great de­bate arose among the statesmen at Lacedæmon; oneparty insisting, with vehemence, that an aid of shipping, and a land force should be sent toTonia and Chios; an­other party, that they should be sent first to Hellespont.The Lacedæmonians, however, complied by far the soon­est with the demands of the Chians and Tissaphernes. Al-cibiades, indeed, espoused the cause of the latter, froman extraordinary zeal to mark hereditary friendship toEn-dius,whoat thisjuncturepresided in thecollege oiEfbori.