OCR Output CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 27* baml of young Patricians, and having made way throughthe crowd, ordered him to be carried to jail. But, bythis time, Icilius had not only a numerous populace abouthim, but their patrons, L. Valerius and 3V1. Horatius attheir head ; who pushing away the lictor, told him, " If"he had a legal action against Icilius, they would be"bail to- defend him against the decemvir, who was"only a private person; but, if he dared to use force,"he would soon find the difference." This raised aterrible tumult. The decemvir's lictor fell upon Va­lerius and Horatius, and the mob broke his fasces. Appiuswent up to the Rostra to harangue the people; Vateriusand Horatius followed. When they spoke, the assemblyw«re all attention; but the decemvir could not be heardfor noise. Matters were carried so high, by this .time, that Va­lerius took upon him to order the lictors to be gone fromAppius, who being only a private person, had no titleto lictors. Appius, in the mean time, terrified for theconsequences, and in fear of his life, escaped, with hishead covered with his robe, unknown to the opposition,into a house adjoining the forum. Sp. Oppius, from theopposite side, rushed into the forum to support his col­league. But there he saw his authority quite overpower­ed. After much deliberation, and urged on all sides tocomply, at last, in much consternation, he ordered thesenate to be assembled. This step in a great measurequieted the people, in hopes, that as many of the Patri­cians seemed dissatisfied with the conduct of the decem­virs, the senate would put an end to their authority. Thesenate were not for exasperating the people: but theythought particular care should be taken to prevent thesedition which Virginius might raise in the army. A. CHAP. L. Virginius' remonstrance in the camp. A Secession. ACCORDINGLY some young Patricians were dis­patched to the. camp, which was then upon mount Veci-tiofi to acquamt the decemvirs, with the necessity of us­ing every means to prevent a mutiny of the soldiers,