OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 409 ting any of the things out of them which he suspected. Andwhile Herod was very busy about this matter, and the palacewas full of terror and trouble, one of the younger sort, when hewas in the utmost agony, confessed that Alexander had sent tohis friends at Rome, and desired that he might be quickly in­vited thither by Caesar, and that he could discover a plot againsthim; that Mithridates, the king of Parthia, was joined in afriendship with his father against the Romans, and that he hada poisonous potion ready prepared at Askelon. 5. To these accusations Herod gave credit, and enjoyed hereby,in his miserable case, some sort of consolation, in excuse of hisrashness, as flattering himself with rmding things in so bad a con­dition: but as for the poisonous potion, which he laboured to find,he could find none. As for Alexander, he was very desirous toaggravate the vast misfortunes he was under, so he pretendednot to deny the accusations, but punished the rashness of his fa­ther with a great crime of his own; and perhaps he was willingto make his father ashamed of his easy belief of such calumnies:he aimed especially, if he could gain belief to his story, to plaguehim, and his whole kingdom; for he wrote four letters, and sentthem to him, that " he did not need to torture any more persons,"for he had plotted against him; and that he had for his part-"ners Pheroras, and the most faithful of his friends; and that"Salome came in to him by night, and that she lay with him"whether he would or no; and that all men were come to be"of one mind, to make away with him as soon as they could,"and so get clear of the continual fear they were in from him."Among these were accused Ptolemy, and Sapinnius, who werethe most faithful friends to the king. And what more can besaid, but that those who before were the most intimate friends,were become wild beasts to one another, as if a certain madnesshad fallen upon them, while there was no room for defence orrefutation, in order to the discovery of the truth, but all wereat random doomed to destruction ; so that some lamented thosethat were in prison, some those that were put to death, andothers lamented that they were in the expectation of the samemiseries; and a melancholy solitude rendered the kingdom de­formed, and quite the reverse to that happy state it was formerlyin: Herod's own life also was entirely disturbed; and becausehe could trust nobody, he was sorely punished by the expecta­tion of farther misery, for he often fancied in his imagination,that his son had fallen upon him, or stood by him with a swordin his hand; and thus was his mind night and day intent uponthis thing, and revolved it over and over, no otherwise than ifhe were under a distraction. And this was the sad conditionHerod was now in. .