OCR Output CHAP. XLV1.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 441 consumed the day in single combats, or ineffectual skir­mishes. The darkness of the night, and the separationof the Romans, afforded the Persian monarch an oppor­tunity of revenge; and one of their camps was sweptaway by a rapid and impetuous assault. But the reviewof his loss, and the consciousness of his danger, deter­mined Chosroes to a speedy retreat; he burnt, in hispassage, the vacant town of Melitene; and, without con­sulting the safety of his troops, boldly swam the Euphra­tes on the back of an elephant. After this unsuccessfulcampaign, the want of magazines, and perhaps some in­road of the Turks, obliged him to disband or divide hisforces; the Romans were left masters of the field, andtheir general Justinian, advancing to the relief of the Per-sarmenian rebels, erected his standard on the banks ofthe Araxes. The great Pompey had formerly haltedwithin three days' march of the Caspian :* that inland seawas explored for the first time, by a hostile fleet,' andseventy thousand captives were transplanted from Hyr-cania to the isle of Cyprus. On the return of spring,Justinian descended into the fertile plains of Assyria, theflames of war approached the residence of Nushirvan, theindignant monarch sunk into the grave, and his last edict His death,restrained his successors from exposing their person in abattle against the Romans. Yet the memory of thistransient affront was lost in the glories of a long reign;and his formidable enemies, after indulging their dreamof conquest, again solicited a short respite from the cala­mities of war.8 * Ha bad vanquished the Albanians, who brought into the field twelve thousandhorse and sixtj thousand foot; but he dreaded the multitude of venomous reptiles,whose existence may admit of some doubt, as well as that of the neighbouring Ama­zons. Plutarch, in Pompeio, torn. 2. p. 1165,1166. 'In the history of the world I can only receive two navies on the Caspian.—l.Ofthe Macedonians, when Patrocles, the admiral of the kings of Syria, Seleucus andAntiochus, descended most probably the river Oxus, from the confines of India. (Plin.Hist. Natnr. 6. 21.) 2. Of the Russians, when Peter I. conducted a fleet and armyfrom the neighbourhood of Mosoow to the coast of Persia. (Bell's Travels, vol. 2. p.325—352.) He justly observes, that such martial pomp had never been displayedon the Volga. I For these Persian wars and treaties, see Menander, in Excerpt. Legal, p. 113—125. Theophanea Byzant. apud Photiura, eod. 64. p. 77. 80,81. Eragrius, lib. 5.c. 7—15. Theophylact, lib. 3. c. 9—16. Agathias, lib. 4. p. 140.VOL. V. 1 G