OCR Output AN. 161.] 453 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. festival day. The Jewish nation were, forsome time afterward, free from wars, and en­joyed peace. But they returned into theirformer state of wars and hazards. Now, as the high-priest, Alcimus, was re­solving to pull down the wall of the sanctu­ary, which had been there of old time, andhad been built by the holy prophets,* he wassmitten suddenly by God. This stroke madehim fall down speechless upon the ground;and undergoing torments for many days, heat length died; when he had been high-priestfour years. And when he was dead, thepeople bestowed the high-priesthood onfJudas. Who hearing of the powerJ of theRomans, and that they had conquered in warGalatia, Iberia, Carthage, and Libya; andthat, besides these, they had subdued Greece,and the kings Perseus and Philip, and Anti-ochus the Great; he resolved to enter into aleague of friendship with them. He there­fore sent to Rome some of his friends; Eupo-lemus the son of John, and Jason the son ofEleazar; and by them desired the Romansthat they would assist them, and be theirfriends; and would write to Demetrius thathe would not fight against the Jews. So thesenate received the ambassadors that cameto Rome from Judns, and discoursed withthem about the errand on which they came;and then granted them a league of assistance.They also made a decree concerning it, andsent a copy of it into Judea. It was also laidup in the capitol, and engraven in brass. Thedecree itself was this:— "The decree of the senate concerning aleague of assistance and friendship with thenation of the Jews. It shall not be lawfulfor any that are subject to the Romans tomake war with the nation of the Jews, nor toassist those that do so; either by sendingthem corn, ships, or money. And if anyattack be made upon the Jews, the Romansshall assist them as far as they are able. Andagain, if any attack be made upon the Ro­mans, the Jews shall assist them. And if thenation of the Jews have a mind to add to, orto take away any thing from this league ofassistance, that shall be done with the com­mon consent of the Romans. And whatso­ever addition shall thus be made, it shall beof force." This decree was written by Eupolemus,the son of John, and by Jason, the son ofEleazar;|| when Judas was the high-priestof the nation, and Simon, his brother, wasgeneral of the army. And this was the firstleague that the Romans made with the Jews. CHAP. XI. OF THE SECOND EXPEDITION OF BACCHIDES AGAINST THEJEWS, AND THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS. WHEN Demetrius was informed of thedeath of Nicanor, and of the destruc­tion of the army that was with him, he sentBacchides again with an army into Judea.Accordingly, he marched out of Antioch, andcame into Judea, and pitched his camp atArbela, a city of Galilee; and having besieged Megillath Taanith. They now fast on that day, in me­mory of Esther's fast before the days of Purim." See2 Mace. xv. 36. * This account of the miserable death of Alcimus orJacimus, the wicked high-priest, (the first that was not ofthe family of the high-priest, and made by a vile heathenLysias ;) before the death of Judas; and of Judas's suc­cession to him as high-priest, both here and at the con­clusion of this book, directly contradicts 1 Mace. ix. 54 57. which places his death after that of Judas; and saysnot a syllable of the high-priesthood of Judas. This ac­count is also inconsistent with Josephus's own most accu­rate scheme of the chronology of the Jewish high-priests,at the end of the Antiquities: where, instead of any years'high-priesthood ascrihed to Judas, which are three yearsat the end of this 12th book, he makes an interregnum inthe pontificate after Alcimus or Jacimus, for seven years;and allows Alcimus or Jacimus to have been high-priestbut three years, instead of four years here. These errorsseem to imply, that the copy of the first book of Macca­bees, which Josephus used when he wrote this 12th book, had the number four for the duration of Akimus's high-priesthood; and had a dislocation of the verses above-mentioned; which then appeared at the end of the 7thchapter; and that afterwards he met with a better copy,whence he corrected his former errors. Which is athing by no means unusual in the works of this author. t That the Asmoneans might be the direct heirs of thehigh-priesthood of Judea upon the extirpation of the oldfamily from Joshua, the son of Josedek, see Prideaux,at the years 153 and 141. J How well the Roman histories agree with this ac­count of the conquests and powerful condition of the Ro­mans at this time, see the notes in Havereamp's edition.Only that the number of the senators of Rome was thenjust 320, is, I think, only known from 1 Maccabees viii. 15. II This subscription is wanting, 1 Mace. viii. 17, 29.and must be the words of Josephus; who, by mistake,thought, as we have just now seen, that Judas was at thistime high-priest; and accordingly reckoned his brotherJonathan to be then general of the army; which yet heseems not to have been till after the death of Judas. 4D2