OCR Output Chap. IV. AN-iiguiTiES or THE JEWS. 55 CHAP. IV. Hffx Amon reigned- instead of Manassek; and after Amon, reign'ed Josiah; he was both righteous and religious. As also con­cerning Hulddh the prophetess. § 1. 1 HIS Amon imitated those works of his father whichhe insolently did when he was young: so he had a conspiracymade against him by his own servants, and was slain in his ownhouse, when he had lived twenty-four years, and of themhad reigned two-. But the multitude punished those that slewAmon, and buried him with his father, and gave the kingdomto his son Josiah, who was eight years old. His mother wasof the city of Boscath; and her name was Jedidah. He was ofa most excellent disposition, and naturally virtuous, and fol­lowed the actions of king David, as a pattern and rule to himin the whole conduct of his life. And when he was twelveyears old, he gave demonstrations of his religious and righteousbehaviour; for he brought the people to a sober way of living,and exhorted them to leave off' the opinion they had of theiridols, because they were not gods, but to worship their ownGod. And by reflecting on the actions of his progenitors, heprudently corrected what they did wrong, like a very elderlyman, and like one abundantly able to understand what was fit tobe done, and when he found they had well done, he observed allthe country over, and imitated the same. And thus he acted infollowing the wisdom and sagacity of his own nature, and infollowing the laws it was that he succeeded so well in the orderof his government, and in piety with regard to the divine wor­ship. And this happened because the transgressions of the for--ner kings were seen no more, but quite vanished away; for thedng went about the city, and the whole country, and cut downthe groves which were devoted to strange gods, and overthrewtheir altars; and if there were any gifts dedicated to them byhis forefathers, he made them ignominious and plucked themdown, and by this means he brought the people back from theiropinion about them to the worship of God. He also offered hisaccustomed sacrifices and burnt-offerings upon the altar. More­over, he ordained certain judges and overseers, that they mightorder the matters to them severally belonging, and have regardto justice above all things, and distribute it with the same con­cern they would have about their own soul. He also sent overall the country, and desired such as pleased to bring gold andsilver for the repairs of the temple, according to every one's in­clinations and abilities. And when the money was brought in,