OCR Output B.VIIT. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 289 Expeditious sailing was earnestly solicited; but the Co­rinthians declared a reluctancy to go the voyage tillthey had celebrated the Isthmian games, which were athand. To remove this obstacle, Agis declared him­self ready to have the whole procedure charged to hisown account, that they might be cleared from a breachof the Isthmian cessation. The Corinthians not com*plying with this proposal, and delay necessarily result­ing from it, the Athenians gained by this an earlier dis*covery of the negotiation of the Chians; and, dispatch­ing Aristocrates, one of their generals, charged themopenly with the guilt of such a procedure. The Chi­ans as strenuously denying the charge, they commandedthem to send away their shipping forthwith to Athensby way of pledge for their safety. The Chians accordingly sent seven. But the detach­ment of these was intirely owing to the popular partyof that island, who had been kept in utter ignoranceof the late negotiation. The few, who were privy to it,had no mind to incur the popular resentment beforethey were enabled to stem its fury; especially as nowthey had resigned all hope of the arrival of the Pelopon-nesians, whose motions were exceeding dilatory. In the mean time the Isthmian games were solem­nized j and at these the Athenians, who had the regu­lar invitation sent them, assisted in form. The practicesof the Chians became here more apparent to them thanever. No sooner, therefore, were they returned to A-thens, than they put all the needful expedients in rea­diness, to prevent the squadron, which was to fail fromCenchreæ, from passing undiscovered. When the festival was over, the latter, with one andtwenty fail, under the command of Alcamenes, stoodout to sea in order for Chios. And the Athenians, ad­vancing against them, at first with an equal numberos ships, stood off again into open sea j but, when thePcloponnesians would not follow them far, but stoodin to the land, the Athenians disappeared; for, having Vol. II. U amongst