OCR Output 302 LIVY. Hannibal being wounded, and retiring from the fight,his men became dispirited ; and the defence of thefortress was effectually maintained. After this, takingbut a few days to rest, and scarcely allowing time forhis wound to be thoroughly healed, he set out to laysiege to Victumviae. This had been fortified by theRomans for a magazine in the time of the Gallic war.Afterwards numbers of people, from all the neighbor­ing states, fixing their residence round it, made it apopulous place; and, at this juncture, fear of the ene­my's depredations had driven into it the greater partof the country people. The multitude thus composed,being excited to a warmth of courage by the report ofthe gallant defence made by the garrison near Placen-tia, snatched up arms, and marched out to meet Han­nibal. The parties engaged on the road, in the orderof march rather than of battle; and as there was onone side nothing more than a disorderly crowd, on theother a leader confident of his soldiers, and a soldieryconfident of their leader, a number not less than thirty-five thousand was routed by a small party. Next daythey capitulated, and received a garrison within theirwalls. They were then ordered to deliver up theirarms, with which they had no sooner complied than asignal was suddenly given to the conquerors to sackthe city, as if taken by storm. Nor have writers,in cases of the like nature, mentioned any one cala­mity which was not suffered on this occasion: everyoutrage which lust, cruelty, and inhuman insolencecould dictate, being practised on those wretched peo­ple. Such were Hannibal's enterprises during thewinter. 58. After this he gave rest to his troops, but not forany great length of time, only while the cold was into­lerable. On the first and even uncertain appearancesof spring, he left his winter quarters, and marchedtowards Etruria ; determined, either by force or per­suasion, to prevail on that nation to join him, as hehad already managed the Gauls and Ligurians. As he