OCR Output 199 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. When the people crowding about him, as if summonedto an assembly, asked him how he came to be in thosecircumstances; he told them, " That his land having"been ravaged by the depredations of the enemy, dur-"ing the war with the Sabines, in which he served, he"had not only lost the crop for a year, but his farm"had been burnt, his effects plundered, and his cattle"carried off. That to add to his misfortune, the pay-"meut of a tax had been exacted from him at a very"unseasonable time, which laid him under the necessity"of borrowing; that interest rising upon interest, he"had been obliged to sell his paternal estate, and after-"wards all his moveabie subjects. At length the disease"had spread to his body, and overspread his whole"person: That his creditors had carried him prisoner"from his house, where they had not been so generous"as treat him like a slave, but as a malefactor condemn-"ed to the torture." With these words he bared hisback, and shewed the still recent marks of the rods andwhips with which he had been tortured. This histor}r, and the proofs that supported it, raiseda prodigious outcry. The tumult was no longer con­fined to the forum, but spread through all quarters ofthe city. All such as had been delivered up to theircreditors, and now at liberty, appeared in public, im­ploring the protection of the people. The mob wasjoined by volunteers from every quarter. Multitudesrepaired from all the streets to the forum, with furiousshouts. Such of the senators as happened to be on thespot, would have been in danger of their lives, had notthe consuls, PubliusServilius, and Ap. Claudius hastenedto quell the riot. The whole multitude turned towardsthese magistrates, showing them their chains, and othermarks of inhuman treatment; telling them that thesewere all the rewards of their past services in arms, everyone upbraiding them with the different campaigns theyhad made. With a menacing rather than suppliant air,they insisted that the senate should be assembled; anddetermined, as it were, to direct and over-rule their deli­berations, they crowded round the senate-house. A small number of the senators, whom.accident hadbrought thither, joined the consuls; fear prevented the