OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 171 the Romans chose the spot where Gaius Sextius defeatedthe Celts, and where the pleasantness and fertility of theregion as well as the numerous hot and cold springs invitedthem to settlement; a Roman township sprang up there—the "baths of Sextius," Aquae Sextiae (Aix). To the westof the Rhone the Romans settled in Karbo, an ancientCeltic town on the navigable river Atax (Aude) at a smalldistance from the sea, which is already mentioned by Heca-tous, and which even before its occupation by the Eomanswas the rival of Massilia as a place of stirring commerce,and as sharing the trade in British tin. Aquae did not obtaincivic rights, but remained a standing camp ;* whereas Narbo,although in like manner founded mainly as a sentinel out­post against the Celts, became, as " Mars' town," a Romanburgess-colony and the usual seat of the governor of thenew Transalpine Celtic province or, as it was more frequentlycalled, the province of Narbo. The Gracchan party, which suggested these extensions of The advanceterritory beyond the Alps, evidently wished to open up of the Ro-thcre a new and immeasurable field for their plans of coloni- "?an^zation,—a field which offered the same advantages as Sicily thrpolic/and Africa, and could be more easily wrested from the of the re-natives than the Sicilian and Libyan estates from the storation.Italian capitalists. The fall of Gaius Gracchus, no doubt,gave occasion here also to restrictions on the acquisition ofterritory and still more on the founding of cities; but, if thedesign was not carried out in its full extent, it was at anyrate not wholly frustrated. The territory acquired and,still more, the foundation of Narbo—a settlement on whichthe senate vainly endeavoured to inflict the fate of that atCarthage—remained standing as parts of an unfinishedstructure, exhorting the future successor of Gracchus tocontinue the building. It is evident that the Roman mer­cantile class, which was able to compete with Massilia inthe Gallo-Britannic traffic at Narbo alone, protected thatsettlement from the assaults of the Optimates. A problem similar to that in the north-west had to be niyria,dealt with in the north-east of Italy; it was in like * Aquae was not a colony, as Livy says (Ep. 61), but a castellum (Strabo,iv. 180; Velleius, i. 15; Madvig, Opusc. i. 303). The same holds true ofItalica (P. 4), and of many other places—Vindonissa, for instance, never wasin law anything else than a Celtic village, but was withal a fortified Romancamp and a place of very considerable importance.