OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 501 all to the royal college of Constantinople, which was chap.burnt in the reign of Leo the Isaurian *. In the XLI-pompous style of the age, the president of that founda­tion was named the Sun of Science; his twelve as­sociates, the professors in the different arts and facul­ties, were the twelve signs of the zodiac; a libraryof thirty-six thousand five hundred volumes was opento their inquiries; and they could show an ancientmanuscript of Homer, on a roll of parchment onehundred and twenty feet in length, the intestines, asit was fabled, of a prodigious serpent t. But theseventh and eighth centuries were a period of discordand darkness; the library was burnt, the college wasabolished, the Iconoclasts are represented as the foesof antiquity; and a savage ignorance and contemptof letters has disgraced the princes of the Heracleanand Isaurian dynasties t. In the ninth century, we trace the first dawnings Revival 0fof the restoration of science. After the fanaticism wiling.of the Arabs had subsided, the caliphs aspired toconquer the arts, rather than the provinces, of theempire: their liberal curiosity rekindled the emula­tion of the Greeks, brushed away the dust from theirancient libraries, and taught them to know andreward the philosophers, whose labours had beenhitherto repaid by the pleasure of study and the pur­suit of truth. The Caesar Bardas, the uncle of Mi­chael the third, was the generous protector of letters,a title which alone has preserved his memory andexcused his ambition. A particle of the treasures of • See Ducange (C. P. Christiana, I. ii. p. 150, 151.), who collects the testi­monies, not of Theophanes, but at least of Zonaras (tom. ii. 1. xv. p. 104.).Cedrenus (p. 454.), Michael Glydas (p. 281.), Constantine Manasses (p. 87.).After refuting the absurd charge against the emperor, Spanheim (Hist. Imagi-num, p. 99—111.), like a true advocate, proceeds to doubt or deny the realityof the fire, and almost of the library. t According to Malchus (apud Zonar. 1. xiv. p. 53.), this Homer was burntin the time of Basiliscus. The MS. might be renewed—But on a serpent's skin?Most strange and incredible! X The axoyia of Zonaras, the «ypm xai x/ixStx of Cedrenus, are strong words,perhaps not ill-suiud to those reigns. r >