OCR Output A THE DECLINE AND FALL distinguished from another emperor of the same family and name, ascended theByzantine throne at the age of sixty-eight years; and, had he been left to his ownguidance, every moment of a nine year's reign must have exposed to his subjectsthe impropriety of their choice. His ignorance was similar to that of Theodoric;and, it is remarkable, that in an age not destitute of learning, two cotemporarymonarchs had never been instructed in the knowledge of the alphabet. But thegenius of Justin was far inferior to that of the Gothic king: the experience of a sol­dier had not qualified him for the government of an empire; and, though person­ally brave, the consciousness of his own weakness was naturally attended withdoubt, distrust, and political apprehension. But the official business of the statewas diligently and faithfully transacted by the questor Proclus;(l) and the agedemperor adopted the talents and ambition of his nephew Justinian, an aspiringyouth, whom his uncle had drawn from the ructic solitude of Dacia, and educatedat Constantinople; as the heir of his private fortune, and at length of the easternempire. Since the eunuch Amantius had been defrauded of his money, it became ne­cessary to deprive him of his life. The task was easily accomplished by .thecharge of a real or fictitious conspiracy; and the judges were informed, as an ac­cumulation of guilt, that he was secretly addicted to the Manichxan heresy.(2)Amantius lost his head; three of his companions, the first domestics of the palace,were punished either with death or exile; and their unfortunate candidate for thepurple was cast into a deep dungeon, overwhelmed with stones, and ignominiouslythrown, without burial, into the sea. The ruin of Vitalian was a work of more diffi­culty and danger. That Gothic chief had rendered himself popular by the civil warwhich he boldly waged against Anastasius for the defence of tlie orthodox faith, andafter the conclusion of an advantageous treaty, he still remained in the neighbour­hood of Constantinople, at the head of a formidable and victorious army of barba­rians. By the frail security of oaths, he was tempted to relinquish this advantageoussituation, and to trust his person within the walls of a city, whose inhabitants, parti­cularly the blue faction, were artfully incensed against him by the remembranceeven of his pious hostilities. The emperor and his nephew embraced him as thefaithful and worthy champion of the church and state; and gratefully adorned theirfavourite with the titles of consul and general; but in the seventh month of hisconsulship, Vitalian was stabbed with seventeen wounds at the royal banquet;(3)and Justinian, who inherited the spoil, was accused as the assassin of a spiritualbrother, to whom he had recently pledged his faith in the participation of theChristian mysteries. (4) After the fall of his rival, he was promoted, without anyclaim of military service, to the office of master general of the eastern armies,whom it was his duty to lead into the field against the public enemy. But, in thepursuit of fame, Justinian might have lost his present dominion over the age andweakness of his uncle; and instead of acquiring by Scythian or Persian trophiesthe applause of his countrymen,(5) the prudent warrior solicited their favour inthe churches, the circus, and the senate of Constantinople. The catholics wereattached to the nephew of Justin, who, between the Nestorian and Eutvchian he­resies, trod the narrow path of inflexible and intolerant orthodoxy. (6) in the firstdays of the new reign, he prompted and gratified the popular enthusiasm againstthe memory of the deceased emperor. After a schism of thirty-four vears, he re­conciled the proud and angry spirit of the Roman pontiff, and spread among theLatins a favourable report of his pious respect for the apostolic see. The thronesof the east were filled with catholic bishops devoted to his interest, the clergyand the monks were gained by his liberality, and the people were taught to prayfor their future sovereign, the hope and pillar of the true religion. The magnifi- (1) His virtues are praised by Procopius (Persic, lib. i. c. II.) Tlie questor Proclus was the friend of Justi­nian, and the enemy of every other adoption. (J) Manichiean signifies Eutychian, Hear tbe furious acclamations of Constantinople and Tyre, tlie far-memo more than six days after the deerae of Anastasius. They produced, the latter ajiplauded the eu­nuch s death (Baromus, A. D. 518. v. 2. No. 15. Fleury, Hi«t. Ecclcs. torn. vii. p. 200. 205. from the councils,torn. v. p. 182.207.) r * (3) His power, character, and intentions, are perfectly explained by the Count de Buat (torn. ix. p. S4—81.)He was gi-eat-grandson of Aspar.bereditary prince in the Lesser Scythia.and count of the Gothic/oaierati ofThrace. The Bessi, whom be could influence, and tbe minor Goths of Jornandea (c. 51.) (4) Justinian patnen facuone dicitur interfectus fuisse (Victor Tununensis, Qhron. in Thesaur. Temp. Sca-liger, p. 2.7.) Procopius (Anecdot. c. 7.) styles him a tyrant, but acknowledges the aSiJuMimrrw, which is wellexplained by Alemnnnus. (5) In his earliest youth (plane adolescens) he had passed some time as a hostage with Theodoric. Fortiuscurious fact, Alcniannui (ad Procon. Anecdot. c. 9. p. 34. of the first edition) quotes a MS. history of Justinianby li" preceptor 1 heophilus. Ludewig (p. 143.) wishes to make him a soldier. (6) Tbe ecclesiastical history of Justinian will be shown hereafter. See Baronius. A. D.5I8-521. and thecopious article Juattmamsm the index to the seventh volume of his Annals.