OCR Output THEBAK AEGYPTL THEBAE BOEOTIAE. ]145 nkn of the stream as far as Hermopolu Magna,i northern boundary of the Thebaid, generally ex--i inland oo tbe K. «ide about oue mile and a half,the W. about two mile*. They do not indeed ob­it ao unbroken line, but the alluvial soil, where■ mouths of tbe collateral valleys permit, occa-Mllr stretches much fartlier into the cuuutry.mil and dykes in tlie IMiaraonic period admittedI retained the Nile's deposit to an extent unknown!it iq Grecian, Roman, or modern eras,v-u fWm tbe river the Thebaid. in the flourishingtjii of Aegvpt, presented a wide and animatedttacleof cultivation and industry, wherever theib *dmitted of room fur cities or villages. Of theirrr of the Kile, its teeming population and mul-bhuou* river-craft, mention has already been madel:>? article N ill's. Among many others, the lol-iiy objects were beheld by thoee who travelled:i Syeu* to Hennopolis. At first the general*.ir.uice of the shores is barren and dreary.%m-Onboi, the ancient Ombi, would first arrest:ouLm by the brilliant colours of its temples, and,mam seasons of the year, hy the festivals heldyiMxr of the crocodile-headed deity Scvak. At<-r> sl>o, if we may credit the Itoman satiristm.al. Sat. xt.), tlte shore at Oinbi was the of bloody frays with the crocodile externa-*i trau Teutyra. Sixteen miles bcluw Ombi was«at of the special worship of the Nile, whichbi> point, owing to the escar|«d form of its sand-* Links, admits of a narrow nod only on either, aod teems to occupy the whole breadth of;i^t- Here too, and on the eastern bank especiallylac rut quarries of stone which supplied thetiu architects with their durable and beautifulmuh. Various landing-places from the riverr access to those quarries: the names of suc-itr tovereigns and princes of the xviiith dynasty,i wan and triumphs, are recorded on the rocks;I Jocks of stone and inunohtlial shrines are stillt-te in their galleries. Ihe temples of Apollhio-» ^lagna {Edfu), Uie hypogaea of Kilithya,occupying either bank, Coptos, long the seatk*vyptian commerce with India, the temples ofor and laia at Teutyra, the mouth of the ancient*a of the Nile, the canal of Jusuf at Diospolisa,ihe necropolis of Abydos, near which runs the.rmti to the greater Oasis, the Unen-wurks and masons' yards of Cheuimis or Panopolisium), the sepulchral chambers at Lyeopolis,Cosily, the superb portico of Hennopolis Magna,rnare, within a compass of about 380 miles,*e*hh, enterprise, and teeming population ofrr Ae^ypt. x vegetation of this region announces the ap-iu to tiie tropics. The productions of the desert,\f-d shrubs and trees, resemble those of the Ara- and Libyan wastes. But wherever the Nile fer-*, the trees and plants belong rather to Aethiopia u» the lower country. The sycamore nearly dis-: the The ban palm and the date-palm take itsTIw lotus (Aymphaea Lotus and Xympiiaea■Jnot) is as abundant in the Thebais as thef;n in tlie Delta. It is the symbol of therr Land; its blue and white cups enliven the poolstaoaJs, and representations of them furnishedqaoot and graceful ornament to architecture.-.. I affirded a plentiful and nutritious diet toC<jrer classes. The deserts of the Thebais,h ia Christian times swarmed with monasteries bmiatages, contained the wolf, hyaena, and jackal: but the larger carnivorous animals of Libyawere rarely seen in Aegypt (Herod, ii. 65.) In thePharaonic times the hippopotamus was found in theNile below the Cataracts: more recently it has sel­dom been found N. of them. The crocodile, being anobject of worship in several of the Theban nomes,wmb doubtless more abundant than it is now. Fromboth papyri and sculjttures we know that tbe The­ban landowners possessed horned cattle and sheepin abundauce, although they kept the hitter for theirwool and milk principally; and the chariots ofThebes attest tlie breeding and training of hones.From extant drawings on tlie monuments we knowalso that horticulture was a favourite occupation inUpper Aegypt. Tlie population of the Thebais was probably of apurer Aegyptian stamp than that of the Delta; atleast its admixtures were derived from Arabia orMeroe rather than from Phoenicia or Greece. Itsrevolutions, too, proceeded from the south, and itwas comparatively unaffected by those of the LowerCountry. Even as late as the age of Tiberius, a d.14 — 37, the land was prosperous, as is proved bythe extension and restoration of so many of its pub­lic monuments; and it was not until the reign ofDiocletian that its ruin was consummated by the in­road of the Blemmyes, and other barbarous tribesfrom Nubia and the Arabian desert. [W. B. D.] TIIEBAE (»rjff<u, orig. 0^«n, Dor. &+,€a; Eth.©rjffalor, fern. &i}€ats, Thebanus, fern. Thebais), thechief city in Boeotia, was situated in tlie southernplain of the country, which is divided from thenorthern by tbe ridge of Onchestus. Both theseplains are surrounded by mountains, and containedfor a long time two separate confederacies, of whichOrcbomenus in the north and Thebes in the southwere the two leading cities. L History. No city in Greece possessed such long continuedcelebrity as Thebes. Athens and Sparta, whichwere tlie centres of Grecian political life in thehistorical period, were poor in mythical renown;while Argus and Mycenae, whose mythical annalsare full of glorious reedlections, sank into romru-rative insignificance in historical times, and My­cenae indeed was blotted out of the map of Greecesoon after the Persian wars- But in the mythi­cal ages Thebes shone pre-eminent, while in latertimes she always maintained her place as the thirdcity of Greece; and after the battle of Leuctra "asfor a short period the ruling city. The moat cele­brated Grecian legends cluster round Thebes as theircentre; and her two sieges, and the fortunes of herroyal houses, were the favourite subjects of the tragicmuse. It was the native city of" the great seerTeiresias and of the great musician Amphion. Itwas the reputed birthplace of the two deities Dionysusand Hercules, whence Thebes is said by Sophocles tobe ''the only city where mortal women are the mo­thers of gods (oo 6i) \jJ>vqv r'iKrouaif al i&MfTald«ovs, Fragm. ap. Dicaearch, § 17, ed. JIullerjMure, Tour in Greece, vol. i. p. 253.) According to the generally received tradition,Thebes was founded by Cadmus, the leader of aPhoenician colony, who called the city Cai»ikia(KaS^d'a), a name which was afterwards confinedto tbe citadel. In the Odyssey. Amphion and Ix-tbus, the two sons of Antiope by Zeus, are repre­sented as the hut founders of Thebes and the first