OCR Output MOTTA. MOXOENE. 375 3a&d ZuoW at the promontory of Lilybaeum,a* pmtal kid op hi* fleet Tor security in the gulfirm llatri, while he advanced with his landinwikr lie coast to attack Selinus. (Diod. xiii.KM.) After the fall of the latter city, we arefeat tau Hmuocraters the Syracusan exile, whotu etiolated himself on its ruins with a numerousj»i cf to!i>«ws. laid waste the territories of Motyati Pawmin (Id, xiii. 63); and again during theapeditmn of the Carthaginians under Ha-racsr(s.c407), these two cities became the per-uaoi Malkn of the Carthaginian fleet. (Id. xiii.*) It mi the important position to which MotyaM tas> attaiotd. that led Dionysius of Syracuse torrai 1* frjutipal finals to its reduction, when in«■ J97 bt ia bis tarn invaded the Carthaginiantwiaay ia .v. .. v. The citizens on the other hand,►TBfMtacojer from Carthage, made preparations*• I nomas resistance; and by cutting off thewhich united them to the mainland, com-aaW Ittinas to have recourse to the tedious andJ*"* freccw of constructing a mound or mole ofaria an the intervening space. Even whenfiw wm arrompliabed, and the military engines of• -i.•» (among "hich the formidable catapult on*> waiwo made its appearance for the first time)t up to the walls, the Motyans continuede; and after the walla and towersrarried by the overwhelming forces of theaway, uj; maintained the defence from street to•a* and from bouse to house This obstinatear.jrW •aly increased the previous exasperation of*" Viia Greeks against the Carthaginians; and•*"» at aorta the troops of Dionysius maile them-te'wameacf the city, they put the whole sur-"c- fpulatias, men, women, and children, to the(Wad. xrr. 47—53.) After this the Syra-■aw *»p* placed it in charge of a garrison under ■ 6rr aarned Biton; while his brother Leptineala* 4 the atataoB of his fleet. But the nextl|w>at(a.c. 396) Him ikon, the Carthaginian ge-JM. aarraf landed at I'anormns with a very large■*»■ ntortmi possession of Motya with com pa-mrij aula aifficaity. (Id. to. 55.) That city,hwmr, wis sat destined to recover its former im-K»*t; aar Hunilcon, being apparently struckP» lea ayia advantages of Lilybaeum, founded fw cry ea (he promontory of that name, to whichtttatferi^ii the few remaining inhabitants ofpa. (Dial xxii. la p. 498.) From this period ■ atitr altogether disappears from history; and ■ tear aiwt on which it was built, has probably** aw *a inhabited only by a few fishermen. I ate ate ef Motya, on which earlier geographers■» a atach doubt, has been clearly identified andpakal ay Captain Smyth. Between the pro­of Lfybaeom (Capo Boeo) and that ofi (& Ttodoro), the coast forms a deepa treat of which liea a long group of loweaM the Stagnant. Within these,to the mainland, lies the•sM called .i I'tintaieo, on which the re­st aa aacjeat city may still be distinctlyInsnssnts of the walls, with those of two. , awn exist, and coins as well as pieces ofI hVX and pottery—the never failing indi-i wf at ancient site — are found scatteredi taw huand. The circuit of the latter1 a mile and a half, and it is inba-•by a fa» fishermen; bat is not devoid of fertility. (Smyth's Sicily, pp. 235, 236.) The con­fined space on which the city was built agreeswith the description of Diodorus that the houseswere lofty and of solid construction, with narrowstreets (ffTfvaiirof) between them, which facilitatedthe desperate defence of the inhabitants. (Diod. xiv.48, 51.) It is a singular fact that, though we have noaccount of Motya having received any Greek po­pulation, or fallen into the hands of the Greeksbefore its conquest by Dionysius, there exist coins ofthe city with the Greek legend MOTTAION.They are, however, of great rarity, and are ap.parently imitated from those of the neighbouringcity of Segesta. (Eckhel, vol. i. p.225.) [E. H.B.] COltt OF MOTYA. MO'TYCA, or MUTYCA (MoVowra, Ptol.: Elh.Mutycensis, Cic. et Plin.: Motlica), an inland townin the SE. of Sicily, between Syracuse and Cama-rina. It was probably from an early period a de­pendency of Syracuse; and hence we meet with nomention of its name until after the Roman conqnestof Sicily, when it became an independent muni-cipium, and apparently a place of some consequence.Cicero tells us that previous to the exactions ofVerres, its territory (the u ager Mutycensis") sup­ported 187 farmers, whence it would appear to havebeen at once extensive and fertile. (Cic. Verr.iii. 43, 51.) Motyca is also mentioned among theinland towns of the island both by Pliny and Pto­lemy; and though its name is not found in theItineraries, it is again mentioned by the Geographerof Ravenna. (Plin. iii. 8. § 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 14;Geogr. Rav. v. 23.) Silius Italicus also includes itin his list of Sicilian cities, and immediately asso­ciates it with Netum, with which it was clearly inI the same neighbourhood. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 268.)There can be no doubt that it is represented by themodern city of Alodica, one of the largest and mostpopulous places in the Val di Soto. It is situatedin a deep valley, surrounded by bare limestone moun­tains, about 10 miles from the sea. Ptolemy notices also a river to which he gives thename of Motychanus (Motuxwos world's), whichhe places on the S. coast, and must evidently deriveits name from the city. It is either' the triflingstream now known as the Fiume di Sckli, which risesvery near Modica; or perhaps the more considerableone, now known as Fiume di Kagusa, which flowswithin a few miles of the same city. (E. H. B.] MO'TYUM (Motik»-), a small town or fortress ofSicily, in the territory of Agrigeiitum. It was besiegedin B.C. 451 by the SicnUaa chief Ducetius, and fellinto his hands after a battle in which he defeatedthe Agrigentines and their allies; but was recoveredby the Agrigentines in the course of the followingsnmmer. (Diod. xi. 91.) No other mention of it isfound, and its site is wholly unknown. [E. H. B] MOXOE'NE, one of tho five provinces beyondthe Tigris, ceded by Nam-* to Galerius and thoRomans, and which Sapor afterwards recovered B H 4