OCR Output 292 ROMAN EMPIRE. will not reach, in a version, the European infidel: hewill peruse with impatience the endless incoherent rhap­sody of fable, and precept, and declamation, which sel­dom excites a sentiment or an idea, which sometimescrawls in the dust, and is sometimes lost in the clouds.The divine attributes exalt the fancy of the Arabianmissionary; but his loftiest strains must yield to thesublime simplicity of the book of Job, composed in aremote age, in the same country, and in the same lan­guage.'1 If the composition of the Koran exceed thefaculties of a man, to what superior intelligence shouldwe ascribe the Iliad of Homer or the Philippics of De­mosthenes? In all religions, the life of the founder sup­plies the silence of his written revelation: the sayingsof Mahomet were so many lessons of truth; his actionsso many examples of virtue; and the public and privatememorials were preserved by his wives and companions.At the end of two hundred years, the Sonna, or orallaw, was fixed and consecrated by the labours of AIBochari, who discriminated seven thousand two hundredand seventy-five traditions, from a mass of three hun­dred thousand reports, of a more doubtful or spuriouscharacter. Each day the pious author prayed in thetemple of Mecca, and performed his ablutions with thewater of Zemzem; the pages were successively depo­sited on the pulpit, and the sepulchre of the apostle;and the work has been approved by the four orthodoxsects of the Sonnites.0 The mission of the ancient prophets, of Moses,and of Jesus, had been confirmed by many too hard for the translator) derides the rhyming affectation of the most applaudedpassage, (torn. 1. part 2. p. 69—75.) b Colloquia (whether real or fabulous) in media Arabia atque ab Arabibushabita. (Lowth. de Poesi Hebraorum Prelect. 32—34. with his German editorMichaelis, Epimetron 4.) Yet Michael is (p. 671—673.) has detected man;Egyptian images, the elephantiasis, papyrus, Nile, crocodile, &c. The langusgeis ambiguously styled, Arabico-Hebrea. The resemblance of the sister dialects wasmuch more visible in their childhood than in their mature age. (Michaelis, p. 68!.Schultens, in Prafat. Job.) c Al Bochari died A. H. 224. See d'Herbelot, p. 208. 416. 827. Gagnier, Not.ad Abulfed. c. 19. p. 33.