OCR Output C. V.] THE TEMPLE. 185 as to those parts of it that were not gilt, they were exceed­ing white. On its top it had spikes with sharp points, to pre­vent any pollution of it hy birds sitting upon it. Of itsstones some of them were forty-five cubits in length, five inheight, and six in breadth. Before this temple stood thealtar, fifteen cubits high, and equal both in length andbreadth : each of which dimensions was fifty cubits. Thefigure it was built in was a square, and it had corners likehorns, and the passage up to it was by an insensible acclivity.It was formed without any iron tool, nor did any such irontool so much as touch it at any time. There was also a wallof partition, about a cubit in height, made of fine stones, andso as to be grateful to the sight; this encompassed the holyhouse and the altar, and kept the people that were on theoutside off from the priests. Moreover, those that had thegonorrhoea and the leprosy were excluded out of the cityentirely: women also, when their courses were upon them,were shut out of the temple ; nor, when they were free fromthat impurity, were they allowed to go beyond the limitbefore mentioned: men also, that were not thoroughly pure,were prohibited to come into the inner [court of the] temple;nay, the priests themselves that were not pure were pro­hibited to come into it also. 7. Now all those of the stock of the priests that could notminister by reason of some defect in their bodies, came with­in the partition, together with those that had no such im­perfection, and had their share with them by reason of theirstock, but still made use of none except their own privategarments; for nobody but he that officiated had on his sacredgarments: but then those priests that were without anyblemish upon them went up to the altar clothed in fine linen.They abstained chiefly from wine out of this fear, lest other­wise they should transgress some rules of their ministration.The high-priest did also go up with them ; not always, indeed,but on the seventh days and new moons, and if any festivalsbelonging to our nation, which we celebrate every year,happened. When he officiated, ho had on a pair of breechesthat reached beneath his privy parts to his thighs, and had 16*