OCR Output 28 VESPASIAN. [B. III. 8. Vespasian, therefore, in order to try bow he mightoverthrow the natural strength of the place, as well as thebold defence of the Jews, made a resolution to prosecute thesiege with vigor. To that end he called the commandersthat were under him to a council of war, and consulted withthem which way the assault might be managed to the bestadvantage. And when the resolution was there taken to raisea bank against that part of the wall which was practicable,he sent his whole army abroad to get the materials together.So when they had cut down all the trees on the mountainsthat adjoined to the city, and had gotten together a vast heapof stones, besides the wood they had cut down, some of thembrought hurdles, in order to avoid the effects of the dartsthat were shot from above them. These hurdles they spreadover their banks, under cover whereof they formed theirbank, and so were little or nothing hurt by the darts thatwere thrown upon them from the wall, while others pulledthe neighboring hillocks to pieces, and perpetually broughtearth to them; so that while they were busy three sorts ofways, nobody was idle. However, the Jews cast great stonesfrom the walls upon the hurdles which protected the men,with all sorts of darts also; and the noise of what could notreach them was yet so terrible, that it was some impedimentto the workmen. 9. Vespasian then set the engines for throwing stones anddarts round about the city. The number of the engines wasin all a hundred and sixty, and bid them fall to work, anddislodge those that were upon the wall. At the same timesuch engines as were intended for that purpose threw at oncelances upon them with a great noise; and stones of the weightof a talent were thrown by the engines that were preparedfor that purpose, together with fire, and a vast multitude ofarrows, which made the wall so dangerous, that the Jewsdurst not only not come upon it, but durst not come to thoseparts within the wall which were reached by the engines : forthe multitude of the Arabian archers, as well as those alsothat threw darts and flung stones, fell to work at the sametime with the engines. Yet did not the others lie still, when