OCR Output 418 THE DECLINE AND FALL in the might of the Roman world, were covered with soldiers, witharms, and with fortifications. The deaths of Maximian and ofGalerius reduced the number of emperors to four. The fense• of their true interest soon connected Licinius and Constantine; a secret alliance was concluded between Maximin and Maxentius, andtheir unhappy subjects expected with terror the bloody consequencesof their inevitable dissensions, which were no longer restrainedby the fear or the respect which they entertained for GaleriusAdministra- Among so many crimes and misfortunes occasioned by theftamine iT~ passions of the Roman princes, there is some pleasure in discovering5u& 306— a single action which may be ascribed to their virtue. In the3I* sixth year of his reign Constantine visited the city of Autun, and generously remitted the arrears of tribute, reducing at the fametime the proportion of their assessment, from twenty-five to eighteenthousand persons, subject to the capitation 4o. Yet even thisindulgence affords the most unquestionable proof of the publicmisery. This tax was so extremely oppressive, either in itselfor in the mode of collecting it, that whilst the revenue wasincreased by extortion, it was diminished by despair: a consider­able part of the territory of Autun was left uncultivated; and greatnumbers of the provincials rather chose to live as exiles andoutlaws, than to support the weight of civil society. It i&but too probable that the bountiful emperor relieved, by a par­tial act of liberality, one among the many evils which he hadcaused by his general maxims of administration. But even thosemaxims were less the effect of choice than of necessity. And ifwe except the death of Maximian, the reign of Constantine in Gaulseems to have been the most innocent and even virtuous period ofhis life. The provinces were protected by his presence from theinroads of the barbarians, who either dreaded or experienced hisactive valour. After a signal victory over the Franks and Ale-nianni, several of their princes were exposed by bis order to thea * wild