OCR Output 210 THE PELOPONNKSIAN WAR. some solicitations they had received from the Acarnaniansto send them either a son or some relation of Phormio tocommand' in those parts. These ships sailing along thecoasts of Laconia ravaged all the maritime places. Afterthis Asopius sends back the greatest part of his ships toAthens, but with a reserve of twelve proceeds himself toNaupactus. And raising afterwards the whole force of theAcarnanians, he leads them against the Oeniadae. Withhis ships he sailed up the Achelous, and the army marchingby land laid the country waste. But when this was foundineffectual he dismisseth the land force, and stretching overhimself to Leucas, and having made a descent upon Neri-cum, was intercepted in his retreat—by those of the adja­cent country, who ran together for mutual aid, supportedby a small party that lay there for guards,—with the loss ofhis own life, and a part of his army. After this, the Atheni­ans stayed only to take up their dead by favour of a truce ob­tained from the Leucadians, and then steered homewards. The ambassadors of Mitylene, who were sent in thefirst ship, having been ordered by the Lacedaemonians torepair to Olympia, that their applications might be addressed,and resolutions formed about them, in the grand resort oftheir whole alliance, arrive at that place. It was that Olym­piad, in which Doricus the Rhodian was a second timevictor*. So, when the solemnity was ended, and an audi­ence was granted them|, they spoke as follows " YE men of Lacedaemon and you their Confederates, • Olympiad 88. f In this manner for private ends, and through party-feuds, was a mostnoble and sacred institution abused. All Grecians in general paid theirattendance at the Olympic Games; and were obliged by all the ties ofhonour and religion to suspend their animosities and quarrels, and meet to­gether as countrymen and brethren with frank and open ingenuity. Andyet, in the present instance, they are going to contrive the means of an­noying one another, so soon as that solemnity is o- er, which was calculatedto teach them union and concord, and a steady attachment to the interestsof Greece their common mother. The policy however of the present pro­ceeding is remarkable. The Athenians who assisted at the games could