OCR Output Jxxx NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. [56] Plin. Epistol. x. 97. The learned Molheimexpresses himself (p. 147. 232.) with the highestapprobation of Pliny's moderate and candid tem­per. Notwithstanding Dr. Lardner's suspicions 'feeJewifhand Heathen Testimonies, vol. ii. p. 46 ) 1 amunable to discover any bigotry in his language orproceedings. [57] Plin. Epistol v. 8. He pleaded his firstcause, A. D. 81. 1 he year after the famous erup­tions of Mount Vesuvius, in which his uncle losthis life. [58] Plin. Epistol. x. 98. Tertullian (Apclog.c. 5.) considers this rescript as a relaxation of theancient penal laws, "quas Trajanus ex parte fru-ftratus est:" and yet Tertullian, in another part ofhis Apologists, exposes the inconsistency of prohi­biting inquiries, and enjoining punishments. fj9] F.uscbius (Hist. Eccleliast. l.iv.c. 9.) haspreserved the edict of Hadrian, He has likewise(c. 13.) given us one still more favourable under thename of Antoninus; the authenticity of which isnot so universally allowed. The second apology osJustin contains some curious particulars relative tothe accusations of christians. [60] See Tertullian (Apolog. c. 40). The actsof the martyrdom of Polycarp, exhibit a livelypicture of these tumults, which were usually fo­mented by the malice of the Jews. [61] These regulations are inserted in the abovenventioned edicts of Hadrian and Pius. See theapology of Melito, (apud Euseb. 1. iv. c. 26.) [62] See the rescript of Trajan, and the conductof Pliny. The most authentic acts of the martyrsabound in these exhortations. [63] In particular, fee Tertullian, (Apol. c. 2',3,). and Lactantius (Institut. Divin. v. 9). Theirreasonings are almost the fame; but we may dis­cover, that one of these apologists had been a lawyer,and the other a rhetorician. [64] See two instances of this kind of torture inthe Acta Sincera Martyrum. publistied by Ruinart,p. 160. 399. Jerome, in his Legend of Paul theHermit, tells a strange story of a young man, who'was chained naked on a bed of flowers, and as­saulted by a beautiful and wanton courtezan. He quelled the riling temptation by biting off histongue. [65I The conversion of his wife provoked Clau­dius Herminianus, governor of Cappadocia, to treat;the christians with uncommon severity. Tertullianad Scapulam, c. 3. f 66] Tertullian, in his epistle to the governor ofAfrica, mentions several remarkable instances oflenity and forbearance, which had happened withinhis knowledge. [67} Neque enim in universum aliquid quodquasi certam formats habeat, constitui potest: anexpression of Trajan, which gave a very great lati­tude to the governors of provinces. [68] In Metalla damnamur, in insulas relege-mur. Tertullian. Apolcg. c. 12. The mines otNumidia contained nine bishops, with a proportion­able number of their Clergy aud people, to whomCyprian addresscd~a pious epistle of praise and com­fort. See Cyprian. Epistol. j6, 77. [69] Though we cannot receive with entire con­fidence, either the epistles, or the acts of Ignatius,(they may be found in the 2d volume of the Apo­stolic Fathers) yet we may quote that bifliop ofAntioch as one of these txemplary martyrs. He wassent in chains to Rome as a public spectacle: andwhen he arrived at Troas, he received the pleasingintelligence, that the persecution of Antioch was al­ready at an end- [70] Among the martyrs of Lyons, (Euseb. 1. v,c. 1.) the stave Blandina was distinguished by moreexquisite tortures. Of the five martyrs so much ce­lebrated in the acts of Felicitas and Perpetua, twowere of a sen ile, and two others of a very meancondition. [71] Origen advers. Celsum, I. iti. p. 116. Hi*words deserve to be trai.scribed. "OXiyoi xur» [72] If we recollect that til the Plebeians ofRome were not christians, and that all the christianswere not saints and martyrs, we mayjudge with howmuch safety religious honours can oe ascribed tobones or urns, indiscriminately taken from thepublic burial place. After ten centuries of a veryfree and open trade, some suspicions hare arisen among