OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 125 from Gaius Gracchus. The institutions of Gracchus stood,for the moment at least, immoveably firm with the exceptionof a single one—his own supremacy. The weakness of thelatter lay in the fact, that in the constitution of Gracchusthere subsisted no relations of allegiance at all between thechief and the army; and, while the new constitution possessedall other elements of vitality, it lacked one—the moral bondbetween ruler and ruled—without which every state rests ona pedestal of clay. In the rejection of the proposal toadmit the Latins to the franchise it had been demonstratedwith decisive clearness, that the multitude in fact never votedfor Gracchus, but always simply for itself. The aristocracyconceived the plan of offering battle to the author of thecorn-largesses and land-assignations on his own ground. As a matter of course, the senate offered to the prole- Rival dema-tariate not merely the same advantages as Gracchus had S°Psm ot'already assured to it in corn and otherwise, but advantages !ie s£na,e-still greater. Commissioned by the senate, the tribune of 1aw8<the people Marcus Livius Drusus proposed to release thosewho received land under the laws of Gracchus from therent imposed on them (P. 90), and to declare their allot­ments to be free and alienable property; and, further,to provide for the proletariate not in transmarine, but intwelve Italian, colonies, each of 3000 colonists, for theplanting of which the people might nominate suitable men;only, Drusus himself declined—in contrast with the Gracchanfamily-collegium—to take part in this honourable duty. Itmay be conjectured that the Latins were named as thepersons at whose expense the plan was to be carried out, forthere does not appear to have now existed in Italy any otheroccupied domain-land of any extent save that which was en­ioyed by them. We find several enactments of Drusus—suchas the regulation, that the punishment of scourging shouldonly be allowed to be inflicted on the Latin soldier by'the Latin officer set over him, and not by the Roman officer—which were to all appearance intended to indemnify theLatins for other losses. The plan was not the most refined.The attempt at rivalry was too clear; the endeavour to drawthe fair bond between the nobles and the proletariate stillcloser by their exercising jointly a tyranny over the Latins wastoo transparent; the inquiry suggested itself too readily, Inwhat part of the peninsula, now that the Italian domainshad been mainly given away already—even granting that the