OCR Output 264 MANTINEIA. MAXTIXEIA. biiw (xi. 11. § 4, compared with xi. 14. § 1).Here commenced the ditch, which is said by Pnly-biiw to have led across the Maiitineian plain to themountains bordering upon the district of the Elis-phasii (?j ra>v 'EAurfairfafK X"Pa» l'u'- *»• H. § 6,com p. 15. § T, xvii. G).* Beyond the temple ofPoseidon was a forest of oaks, called Pblagi's(n«A.a>oi), through which ran the mail to Tegea.On turning out of the road to the left, at the templeof Poseidon, one found at the distance of 5 stadiatlie tombs of the daughters of Pcliaa. Twentystadia further on was a place called Phokzon(♦offwf). This was the narrowest part of the plainbetween Tegea and Mantineia, the road beingshortened by the hill Scope on the \\\ and a similarprojecting rock on the E. Here was the tomb ofAreithous, who was said to have been slain in anarrow pass by Lycurgua (oTttvwinf iv o5«, Horn.IL vii. 143).J This narrow valley, shut in by thetwo projecting ridges already mentioned, formed thenatural frontier between the territories of Mantineiaand Tegea. The boundary between the two stateswas marked by a round altar on the road, whichwas about four miles distant from Mantineia, andabout six miles from Tegea. It was here thatthe Lacedaemonian army was posted, over whichKpamiuondas gained his memorable victory. Hehad marched from Tegea in a north-westerly direc­tion, probably passing near the site of the modernTripotitzii, and then keeping along the side of Mt-Maenatus. He attacked the enemy on their rightflank, near the projecting ridge of Mt. Maenalus,already described. It was called Scoja? (2*oirn,now Myrtikas), because Kpaininondas, after re­ceiving his mortal wound, was carried to this heightto view the battle. Here he expired, and his tomb,which Pansanias saw, was erected on the spot.(Paus. viii. 11. §§ 6, 7; for an account of thebattle &ee Grote, vol. xi. p. 464, seq.) The road from Mantineia to Pallantium ranalmost parallel to the road to Tegea till it reachedthe frontiers of Tegcatis. At the distance of onestadium was the temple of Zeus Cbarmon. (Paus.viii. 10, 11, 12. § I.) Two roads led from Mantineia eastwards to Argos, * This ditch must have terminated in a kata-vothra, probably in one of the katavothra on the \V.side of the plain at the foot of the Maenahan moun­tains. On the other side of these mountains is thevillage and river named Helisson; and as the Elis-phaMi are not mentioned in any other passage, ithas been proponed to read 'EXunrovrictv instead of'F.\ic<paaib>y. (Ross, p. 127.) Leake has con­jectured, with some probability, that Klisphasii maybe the corrupt ethnic of Klymia ('EAv/ua), aplace only mentioned by Xenophon {Iftil, vi. 5.§ 13), who places it on the confines of Orrhornenusand Mantineia. Although Leake places Ely mm atLevidhi, on the NW. frontier of Mantinice, he con­jectures that the whole plain of Alcimedon mayhsve belonged to it. (Leake, Pebtponwsiaca, p.380.) "| Leake imagines that Phoezon was situated ona *ide road, leading from the tombs of the daughtersof Pelias. But Hoss maintains that Plnvzon wason the high-road to Tegea, and that Pau>anias hasonly mentioned by anticipation, in viii. 11. § 1, thealtar forming the boundary between Mantinice andTegeatis, the more proper place for it being atthe close of § 4. called Piuses (Jlplvot) and Climax (KAijiaO. orthe "Ladder," respectively. (Paus. viii. 6. § 4.)The latter was so called from the stejs cut oat ofthe rock in a part of the road; and the Prions nru-bably derived its name from parsing by a Ur^rholm-oak (wpnvoj), or a small wood of holm-oaks;but the roads do not appear to have borne Ukmnames till they entered Mantinice. There are onlytwo passes through the mountains, which separatethe Argive plain from Mantinice, of which thesouthern and the shorter one is along the coarse ofthe river Charadrus, the northern and the hunger atmalong the valley of the Inachus. Both Koas anuLeake agree in making the Prinus the southernand the Climax the northern of these two road*,contrary to the conclusions of the French surveyors.Both roads quitted Argos at the same gat*, at thehill called Deiras, but then immediately parted indifferent directions. The Prjxcs, after ending th-Charadrus, passed by Oenoe, and then ascendedMount Artemisiurn (Afalevos), on tl>e summit cfwhich, by the road-side, stood the temple of AjtemU.and near it were the sources of the Inachus. Herewere the boundaries of Mantinice and Argolia.(Paus. ii. 25. §§ I—3.) On descending thU muun-tain the road entered Mantinice, first crossing throughthe lowest and most marshy part of the " Argon,'*or "Uncultivated Plain," so called because thewaters from the mountains collect in the plain andrender it unfit for cultivation, although then is akatarothra to carry them off. On the left of theplain were the remains of the camp of Philip, son cfAinyntas, and a village called Nestajse (Nfo-roVp),probably now the modem village of TdpiaMta.Near this spot the waters of the plain enteredthe katavothra, and are said not to liare madetheir exit till they reached the sea off the coast ofthe Argeia. Below Nestane was the ** Dancing-place of Maera" (Xopos Malpas), which was onlythe southern arm of the Argon Plain, by means ifwhich the latter was connected with the great Man-tineian plain. The road then crossed over the footof Mount Alesium, and entered the great Mantineianplain near the fountain Arne at the distance uf 12stadia from the city. From thence it pas*ed intothe city by the south-eastern or Tegcatan gate.(Paus. viii. 6. § 6—viii. 8. § 4.) The other road, called Climax, ran from Argosin a north-westerly direction along the course of theInachus, first 60 stadia to Lyrceia, and again 6Ustadia to Orneae, on the frontiers of Siryonia anJPhliasia. (Paus. ii.25. §§ 4—6.) It then erasedthe mountain, on the descent of which into Mantinurwere the steps cut out of the rock. The iv*d en­tered Mantinice at the upper or northern corner ifthe Argon Plain, near the modern village of S*m$a.It then ran in a sonth-westerly direction, al<<ig thewestern side of Mount Alesium, to a place tnl'.-dMelangkia (tA M*Aa*y?«<a), from which drinking-water was conducted by an aqueduct to Mantineia,of which remains were observed by Ross. It oe-responds to tlie modern village of J'iirmi, which i* COIN OF MAXTtXUA.