OCR Output CHAP. LI. 369 and final stand for their religion and country; and thedecisive battle of Nehavend was styled by the Arabs thevictory of victories. If it be true that the flying generalof the Persians was stopped and overtaken in a crowd ofmules and camels laden with honey, the incident, how­ever slight or singular, will denote the luxurious impe­diments of an oriental army/ Conquest The geography of Persia is darkly delineatedA.D?6S7 by the Greeks and Latins; but the most illus-~651- trious of her cities appear to be more ancientthan the invasion of the Arabs. By the reduction ofRamadan and Ispahan, of Caswin, Tauris, and Rei, theygradually approached the shores of the Caspian sea;and the orators of Mecca might applaud the success andspirit of the faithful, who had already lost sight of thenorthern bear, and had almost transcended the boundsof the habitable world.g Again turning towards thewest and the Roman empire, they repassed the Tigrisover the bridge of Mosul, and, in the captive provincesof Armenia and Mesopotamia, embraced their victoriousbrethren of the Syrian army. From the palace of Madayntheir eastern progress was not less rapid or extensive.They advanced along the Tigris and the Gulf; pene­trated through the passes of the mountains into thevalley of Estachar or Persepolis; and profaned the lastsanctuary of the Magian empire. The grandson ofChosroes was nearly surprised among the falling columnsand mutilated figures; a sad emblem of the past andpresent fortune of Persia;11 he fled with accelerated haste 'See the article of Nehavend, in d'Herbelot, p. 667, 668. and .Voyages en Tur-quie et en Perse, par Otter, torn. 1. p. 191. f It is in such a style of ignorance and wonder that the Athenian orator describesthe Arctic conquestsof Alexander, who never advances beyond the shores of the Cas­pian, AXifrwJpot •£» -Pi! »fxrcu xai -rnt iHuuftmt, oAiyouJtif, xamt fMtSuinwa. Eschinescontra Ctesiphontem, torn. 3. p. 554. edit. Graec. Orator. Reiske. This memorablecause was pleaded at Athens, Olymp. 112. 3. (before Christ 300) in the autumn,(Taylor, prafat. p. 370, &c.) about a year after the battle of Arbela; and Alex­ander, in the pursuit of Darius, was marching towards Hyrcania and Bactriana. 11 We are indebted for this curious particular to the Dynasties of Abulpharagius,p. 116. but it is needless to prove the identity of Estachar and Persepolis; (d'Her­belot, p. 327.) and still more needless to copy the drawings and descriptions ofair John Chardin, or Corneille le Brnyn. VOL. VI. 2 B