OCR Output DTTEROCREA. IOL. 59 i. 163) laid open the W. const of this sea. Duringthe period of the Roman Universal Empire, theMediterranean was the lake of the imperial city.Som after the conclusion of the First MithridaticWar, piracy, which has always existed from the car-lot periods cf history to the present day in the(Irtcian waters, was carried on systematically bylarge armies and fleets, the strongholds of which*rrc Cilicia and Crete. From these stations thepirates directed their expeditions over the greaterfnrt vi the Mediterranean. (Appian, Bell. Mithr.92: Pint. Pomp. 24.) Piracy, crushed by Pom-peias, was never afterwards carried on so extensivelyi> to merit a place in history, but was not entirelyextirpated even by the fleet which the Roman em-pemre maintained in the East, and that cases stilloE-earfcd is proved by inscriptions. (Bockh, Corp.Inner. Graec. nn. 2335, 2347.) The Romansde»pi$ed all trade, and the Greeks, from the time ofHadrian, their great patron, till the extinction of theKoman power in the East, possessed the largestthare of the commerce of the Mediterranean. Evenafter the Moslem conquests, the Arabs, in spite ofthe Virions expeditions winch ther fitted out toattack Constantinople, never succeeded in forming amaritime power; and their naval strength declinedwith the numbers and wealth of their Christian■objects, until it dwindled into a few piraticalKjaadrons. The emperors of Constantinople reallyremained masters of the sea. On all points con­nected with this sea. see Admiral Smyth, The Me-dkerraitean. London, 1854. [E. B. J.] IXTKROCKEA (Trr«po*cpe'a, Strab.), a emailti.ti-n or village of the Sabines, between Amitemumind Ifcate. It was placed on the Via Salaria, at thejunction of its two branches, one of which led east­ward* to Amiterntiin, the other, and principal one,up tlie valley of the Velinus, to Asculum. It is nowfailed Antrodwo, and is a position of great militaryimportance, from its commanding the entrance to thetwo raises just mentioned, which must in all ageslure furmed two of the principal lines of communi­cation across the Apennines. It seems, however, tohare been in ancient times but a small place: Strabocalls it a village; and its name is otherwise found<«ry in the Itineraries, which place it at 14 M. P.from Beate, a distance that coincides with the positioncf Antrodooo. (Strab. v. p. 228; Itin. Ant. p. 307;Tab. Peut.) Its ancient name is evidently derivednvm ha position in a deep valley between ruggediiwmrains ; for we learn from Festus (p. 181, ed.MijlL) that Ocris was an ancient word for a moun­tain and it is interesting to find this form stillpreserved in thi» name of the Montagne di Ocra,a lefty and nigged group of the Apennines, nearArpuia. (Zannoni, Carta del Regno di Napoli,3. fol.) [E. II. B.] INTERPROMIUM, a village of the Marrucini,fjrmrng a station on the Via Claudia Valeria be­tween Corfiniam and Teatc. It is repeatedly men­tioned in the Itineraries, but the distances arenrioosly given. {Itin.Ant.pp. 102.310; Tub.Peut.)The line of the ancient highroad is, however, wellascertained, and the position of Interpromium is fixedW am-ient remains, as well as mediaeval records, ata place on the right bank of the Aternus, justt*l'.w the narrow gorge through which that riverftW* below Popoti. The site is now marked onlyby a tavern called the Osteria di S. Valentino, fromthehttte town of that name on the hill above; it is**tant 12 Roman miles from Corfininm (S. Pellino), and 13 from Teate (Chieti), or 21 from Pescant,at the mouth of the Aternus. (Holsten. Not. udCluv. p. 143; D'Anville, Analyse de Vltalie, p. 178;Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 117.) An inscription alsomentions Interpromium under the name of Paguslnterprominus (Orell. Inscr. 144; Romanelli, l.c.)\it is called "Interpromium vicus " in the Itineiaryof Antoninus (p. 102). and was evidently a merevillage, probably a dependency of Teate, [E.H.B.]JKTI'BILI. 1. [Edetaki.] 2. A town ofHispania Uaetica, near Illiturgis, the scene of abattle rained by the Romans over the Carthaginiansin the Second Punic War. (Liv. xxiii. 49; Fron-tin. Stratag. iii. 3.) [P. S.] INUI CASTRUM. ["Castrl-m I»ox]INYCUM or INYCUS Clrvicov, Steph. B., butTl'lvuKotj Herod.: Kth. 'XvvKivos), a town of Sicily,situated in the SW. of the island, on the riverHypsas. It is principally known from its connectionwith the mythical legends concerning Minos andDaedalus; the capital of the Sicanian prince Cocalus,who afforded a shelter to the fugitive Daedalusagainst the Cretan monarch, being placed by somewriters at Inycum, and by others at Camicus. (Paus.vii. 4. § 6; Charax, ap. Steph. B. v. KafuK6sJ) Itis mentioned in historical times by Herodotus as theplace of confinement to which Scythes, the ruler ofZanclc, was sent by Hippocrates, who had takenhim prisoner. (Herod, vi. 23, 24.) Aelian, whocopies the narrative of Herodotus, represents Scythesas a native of Inycum; but this is probably a mis­take. (Ael. V. II. viii. 17.) Plato speaks of Inycumas still in existence in his time, but quite a smallplace (x«pio" wdVu o-fwtp6v); notwithstandingwhich he makes the sophist Hippias boast that hehad derived from it a sum of 20 minae. (Plat.Hipp, M. p. 282, e.) It is evident that it alwayscon tinned to be an inconsiderable place, and wasprobably a mere dependency of Selinus. Hence wenever again meet with its name, though Stephamistells us that this was still preterved on account ofthe excellence of its wine. (Steph. B. $. v. "Ivvkov;Hesych. a. r.) Vibius Sequester is the only authorthat affords any cluo to its position, by telling usthat the river Hypsas (the modem Belici) flowed byit (Vib. Sequest. p. 12, according to Clover's cmendation); but further than this its site cannot bedetermined. [E. H. B.] IOBACCHI. [Marmarica.]IOL, afterwards CAESARE'A (*Iw\ Katff&ptia,Ptol. ii 4. § 5; r} Kaiodptta, Strab., &c), ori­ginally an obscure Phoenician settlement on the N.coast of Africa, became afterwards famous as thecapital of Bocchus and of Juba II. [Mauritania.]The latter king enlarged and adorned the city, andgave it the name of Caesarea, in honour of hispatron Augustus. Under the Romans it gave itsname to the province of Mauretania Caesariensis, ofwhich it was the capital. It was made a colony bythe emperor Claudius. Under Valens it was burntby the Moors; but it was again restored; and inthe 6th century it was a populous and flourishingcity. It occupied a favourable position midway be­tween Carthage and the Straits, and was convenientlysituated with refe.ence to Spain, the Balearic islands,and Sardinia; and it had a natural harbour, pro­tected by a small island. To the E. of the citystood the royal mausoleum. (Strab, xvii. p. 831;Dion Cass. Ix. 9; Mela, i. 6. § 1; Plin. v. 2. s. 1;Eutrop. vii. 5 ; Itin. Ant. pp. 5, 15, 25, 31; Oros.vii. 33; Ammian. xxix. 5; Procop. B. Yand. ii. 5.)