OCR Output ;92 THE DECLINE AND PALL of fortune, and the disappointment of his favourite schemes urgedhim to relinquish a power which he found inadequate to his am­bition. But the reign of Diocletian had slowed with a tide of unin­terrupted success; nor was it till after he had vanquished all hisenemies, and accomplished all his designs, that he seems to haveentertained any serious thoughts of resigning the empire. NeitherCharles nor Diocletian were arrived at a very advanced period oflife; since the one was only fifty-five, and the other was no morethan fifty-nine years of age; but the active life of those princes,their wars and journies, the cares of royalty, and their applicationto business, had already impaired their constitution, and brought onA. D. 304. the infirmities of a premature old age107. Long illness m , , of Diocletian. - Notwithstanding the severity of a very cold and rainy winter, Dio­cletian left Italy soon after the ceremony of his triumph, and began hisprogress towards the East round the circuit of the Illyrian provinces.Erom the inclemency of the weather, and the fatigue of the journey,he soon contracted a flow illness; and though he made easy marches,and was "generally carried in a close litter, his disorder, before he ar­rived at Nicomedia, about the end of the summer, was become veryserious and alarming. During the whole winter he was confined tohis palace; his danger inspired a general and unaffected concetn;but the people could only judge of the various alterations of hishealth, from the joy or consternation which they discovered in thecountenances and behaviour of his courtiers. The rumour of his deathwas for some time universally believed, and it was supposed to beconcealed, with a view to prevent the troubles that might have hap­pened during the absence of the Cæsar Galerius. At length, however,on the first of March, Diocletian once more appeared in public, but sopale and emaciated, that he could scarcely have been recognised byHis prudence, those to whom his person was the most familiar. It was time toput an end to the painful struggle, which he had sustained duringmore than a year between the care of his health and that of his dignity.