OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SOS during which time the king did not fail to go on both with thework and to pay the charges that were necessary. CHAP. X. How Herod sent his sons to Rome; how also he was accused byZenodorus, and the Gadarens, but was cleared of what theyaccused him of, and withal gained to himself the good-will ofCcesar. Concerning the Pharisees, the Essens, and Manahem. $ 1. W HEN Herod was engaged in such matters, and whenhe had already re-edified Sebaste [Samaria,] he resolved tosend his sons Alexander and Aristobulus to Rome, to enjoythe company of Caesar; who, when they came thither, lodgedat the house of * Pollio, who was very fond of Herod's friend­ship; and they had leave to lodge in Caesar's own palace, forhe received these sons of Herod with all humanity, and gaveHerod leave to give his kingdom to which of his sons he pleased;and, besides all this, he bestowed on him Trachon, and Batanea,and Auranitis, which he gave him on the occasion following:One f Zenodorus had hired what was called the house of Lysa-nias, who, as he was not satisfied with its revenues, became apartner with the robbers that inhabited the Trachones, and &oprocured himself a larger income; for the inhabitants of thoseplaces lived in a mad way, and pillaged the country of the Da­mascenes, while Zenodorus did not restrain them, but partookof the prey they acquired. Now, as the neighbouring peoplewere hereby great sufferers, they complained to Varro, who wasthen president [of Syria,] and entreated him to write to Caesarabout this injustice of Zenodorus. When these matters werelaid before Caesar, he wrote back to Varro to destroy thosenests of robbers, and to give the land to Herod, that so by hiscare the neighbouring countries might be no longer disturbedwith these doings of the Trachonites, for it was not an easything to restrain them, since this way of robbery had been theuusual practice, and they had no other way to get their living,because they had neither any city of their own, nor lands in theirpossession, but only some receptacles and dens in the earth, andthere they and their cattle lived in common together: However, * This Pollio, with whom Herod's sons lived at Rome, was not Pollio the Phari­see, already mentioned by Josephus, ch. i. sect. 1. and again presently after this, ch.x. sect. 4. but Asinius Pollio, the Roman, as Spanheim here observes. + The character of this Zenodorus is so like that of a famous robber of this samename in Strabo, and that about this very country, and about this very time also, thatI think Dr. Hudson hardly needed to have put 3 perhaps to liis determination thatthey were the same.