OCR Output JERUSALEM,17 JERUSALEM. attached, perhaps, to two neighbouring sites after-wards incorporated into one. The sacred narrative,by implication, and Josephas, explicitly, recognisefrom the first a distinction between the Upper andthe Lower city, the memorial of which is supposed tobe retained in the dual form of the Hebrew nameDv«?W. The learned are divided in opinion asto whether the Salem of Melchizedek is identicalwith Jerusalem. St Jerome, who cites Josephusand a host of Christian authorities in favour of theiridentity, himself maintaining the opposite conclusion,savs that extensive ruins of the palace of Melchizedekwere shown in his day in the neighbourhood ofSeythopolis, and makes the Salem of that patriarchidentical with "Shalem, a city of Shechem" {Gen.xxxiii. 18); the same, no doubt, with the Salim nearto Aenon (SL John, iii. 23), where a village of thesame name still exists in the mountains east ofXablit. Certain, however, it is that Jerusalem isintended by this name in Psalm Ixxvi. 2, and thealmost universal agreement of Jews and Christiansin its identity with the city of Melchizedek is stillfurther confirmed by the religions character whichseems to have attached to its governor at the time ofthe coming in of the children of Israel, when we findit under the rule of Adonizedek, the exact equivalentto Melchizedek ("righteous Lord"). Regarding,then, the Utter half of the name as representing theancient Salem, we have to inquire into the origin ofthe former half, concerning which there is consider­able diversity of opinion. Josephus has been under­stood to derive it from the Greek word Xtpov, prefixedto Salem. In the obscure passage {Ant. vii. 3. § 2)he is so understood by St. Jerome; but Isaac Vossiusdefends him from this imputation, which certainlywould not raise his character as an etymologistLightfoot, after the Kabbies, and followed by Whiston,regards the former half of the name as an abbre­viation of the latter part of the title Jehovah-jireA,which this place seems to have received on occasionof Abraham offering up his son on one of the moun­tains of " the land of Moriah." (Gen. xxii. 8, 14.)Belaod, followed by Raumer, adopts the root BH^yaratk, and supposes the name to be compounded ofCV1 and aVff, which would give a very good sense, " hereditas," or " possessio hereditaria pacis."Lastly, Dr. Wells, followed by Dr. Lee, regards theformer part of the compound name as a modificationof the name Jebus, C13\ one of the earlier namesof the city, from which its Canaanitish inhabitantswere designated Jebusites. Dr. Wells imagines thatthe 3 was changed into 1, for the sake of euphony;Dr. Lee, for euphemy, as Jebosalem would mean• the trampling down of peace" — a name of illomen. Of these various interpretations, it may besaid that Lightfoot's appears to have the highestauthority; but that Reland's is otherwise the mostsatisfactory. Its other Scripture name, Sum, ismerely an extension of the name of one particularquarter of the city to the whole. There is a furtherquestion among critics as to whether by the cityCadytis, mentioned in Herodotus, Jerusalem is in­tended. It is twice alluded to by the historian: onceas a city of the Syrians of Palaestine, not much•mailer than Sardis (iii 5); again, as having beentakes by Pharoah-Necho, king of Egypt, after hisvictory in Magdolum (ii. 159). The main objectionsurged against the identity of Cadytis and Jerusalemin these passages, are, that in the former passage VOL II. Herodotus is apparently confining his survey to thesea-border of Palaestine, and that the fact narrated inthe second is not alluded to in the sacred narrative.But, on the other hand, there is no mention in sacredor profane history of any other city, maritime orinland, that could at all answer to the description ofCadytis in respect to its size: and the capture ofJerusalem by Nccho after the battle of Megiddo, —which is evidently corrupted by Herodotus into Mag­dolum, the name of a city on the frontier of Egypttowards Palaestinc, with which he was more fa­miliar,— though not expressly mentioned, is impliedin Holy Scripture; for the deposition and deportationof Jehoahaz, and the substitution and subjugation ofJehoiakim, could not have been effected, unless Nechohad held possession of the capital. (2 Kings, x.\iv.29—35; comp. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 3.) It may, then,safely be coucluded that Cadytis is Jerusalem; andit is remarkable that this earliest form of its classicalname is nearly equivalent to the modern name bywhich alone it is now known to its native inhabit­ants. El-Khiuh signifies "the lloly (city)," andthis title appears to have been attached to it as earlyas the period of Isaiah (xlviii. 2, hi. 1), and is offrequent recurrence after the Captivity. (Nehem.xi. 1, 18; St. Malth. iv. 5, xxvii. 53.) Its paganname Colonia Aelia Capitolina, like those imposed onmany other ancient cities in Palaestine, never tookany hold on the native population of the country,nor, indeed, on the classical historians or ecclesi­astical writers. It probably existed only in statepapers, and on coins, many of which are preserved tothis day. (See the end of the article.) IL General Site. Jerusalem was situated in the heart of the moun­tain district which commences at the south of thegreat plain of Esdroelon and is continued throughoutthe whole of Samaria and Judaea quite to thesouthern extremity of the Promised Land. It isalmost equidistant from the Mediterranean and fromthe river Jordan, being about thirty miles from each,and situated at an elevation of 2000 feet above thelevel of the Mediterranean. Its site is well definedby its circumjacent valleys. Valleys.— (1) In the north-west quarter of thecity is a shallow depression, occupied by an ancientpool. This is the head of the Valley of Hinnom,which from this point takes a southern course, con­fining the city on the western side, until it makes asharp angle to the east, and forms the southernboundary of the city to its south-east quarter, whereit is met by another considerable valley from thenorth, which must next be described. (2) At the distance of somewhat less than 1500yards from the " upper pool" at the head of theValley of Hinnom, are the "Tombs of the Kiugs,"situated at the head of the Valley of Jehotlmphat,which runs at first in an eastern course at somedistance north of the modern city, until, turningsharply to the south, it skirts the eastern side of thetown, and meets the Valley of Hinnom at the south­east angle, as already described, from whence theyrun off together in a southerly direction to the DeadSea. Through this valley the brook Kedron is sup­posed once to have run; and, although no water hasbeen known to flow through the valley within theannals of history, it is unquestionably entitled to thealias of the Valley of the Kedron. The space between the basin at the head of theValley of Hinnom and the head of tie Valley of C