OCR Output AK. 1050.] 281 Antiquities of the jews. figure was that of a hemisphere; this brazenvessel was called a sea tor its largeness; forthe laver was ten cubits in diameter, and castof the thickness of a palm. Its middle partrested on a short pillar, that had ten spiralsround it; and that pillar was a cubit in dia­meter. There stood round about it twelveoxen, that looked to the four winds of heaven;three to each wind; having their hinder partsdepressed, that so the vessel might rest uponthem; which itself was also depressed roundabout inwardly. Now this sea containedthree thousand baths. He also made ten brazen bases, for somany quadrangular lavers; the length ofevery one of these bases was five cubits, thebreadth four cubits, and the height sixcubits.* This vessel was partly turned, andwas thus contrived. There were four smallquadrangular pillars, that stood one at eachcorner; these had the sides of the base fittedto them on each quarter; and they wereparted into three parts; every interval hada border fitted to support the laver; uponwhich was engraven, in one place a lion, andin another place a bull, and an eagle. Thesmall pillars had the same animals engraven,that were on the sides. The whole workwas elevated, and stood upon four castwheels; which had also naves and felloes,and were a foot and half in diameter. Anyone that saw the spokes of the wheels, howexactly they were turned, and united to the sides of the bases, and with what harmonythey agreed to the felloes, would wonder atthem. However, their structure was this.Certain shoulders of hands stretched outheld the corners above; upon which resteda short spiral pillar, that lay under the hol­low part of the laver, resting upon the fore­feet of the eagle, and the lion; which wereadapted to them: insomuch that those whoviewed them would think that they were ofone piece. Between these were engravingsof palm trees. This was the construction ofthe ten bases. He also made ten large roundvessels, which were the lavers themselves;each of which contained fforty baths:J forit had its height four cubits, and its edgeswere as much distant from each other. Healso placed these lavers upon the ten basesthat were called Mechonoth; and he set fiveof the lavers on the ||left side of the temple,which was that side towards the north wind;and as many on the right side, towards thesouth, but looking towards the east. Thesame eastern way he also set the sea. Nowhe appointed the sea for washing the handsand the feet of the priests, when they enteredinto the temple, and were to ascend the al­tar; but the lavers to cleanse the feet andentrails of the beasts that were to be burnt-offerings. He also made a brazen altar, whose lengthwas twenty cubits, its breadth the same, andits height ten, for the burnt-oflerings. He in number and richness, to that of the edifice; and yetJosephiu seems to have carried his account beyond allcredibility, when he tells us, that there were 10,000tables besides those of the shew-bread; 10,000 candle­sticks besides those in the holy place; 80,000 cups fordrink-offerings; 100,000 basons of gold, and double thatnumber of silver: when he tells us that Solomon causedto be made 1000 ornaments for the sole use of the high-priest, 10,000 linen robes and girdles for that of thecommon priests, and 200,000 more for the Levites andmusicians, when he tells of 200,000 trumpets made ac­cording to Solomon's direction, with 200,000 more, madein the fashion that Moses had appointed, and 400,000musical instruments of a mixed metal, between gold andsilver, called by the ancients electrum. Concerning all-which we can only say, that the text is either silent, orcontradicts this prodigious account. Universal History,lib. i. c. 7. B. * Four cubits, Heb. and Septuagint. 1 Kings vii. 27. t The round or cylindrical lavers of 4 cubits in dia­meter, and 4 in height, both in our copies: 1 Kings vii.38, 39. and here in Josephus, must have contained a greatdeal more than the 40 baths, which are always assignedt hem. Where the error lies is hard to say. If for ^oou, congii, or baths, we take homers, which were but a tenthpart of the bath: or if, in Josephus, we take their dia­meters only one third of their height, by reading insteadof tjctois, to rpirov too"stwv, the measures would pretty wellagree. But both these conjectures are uncertain, andunsupported. Perhaps Josephus honestly followed hiscopies here; though they had been corrupted, and he wasnot able to restore the true reading. In the mean timethese 40 baths are probably the quantity contained ineach laver: since they went upon wheels, and were tobe drawn by the Levites about the court of the priests,for the washings they were designed for, and had theyheld much more they would have been too heavy to havebeen so drawn. I Cori, or Congii. II Here Josephus gives us a key to his own language,of right and left hand in the tabernacle and temple: thatby the right hand he means what is against our left, whenwe suppose ourselves going up from the east gate of thecourts, towards the tabernacle or temple themselves: andso vice versa. Whence it follows that the pillar Jachin,on the right hand of the temple was on the south, againstour left hand, and Booz on the north against our righthand.