OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 218 end of four hundred years, the Montanists of Phrygia,(l) still breathed the wildenthusiasm of perfection and prophecy, which they had imbibed from their maleand female apostles, the special organs of the Paraclete. On the approach of thecatholic priests and soldiers, they grasped with alacrity the crown of martyrdom;the conventicle and the congregation perished in the flames; but these primitivefanatics were not extinguished three hundred years after the death of their tyrant.Under the protection of the Gothic confederates, the church of the Arians ofConstantinople had braved the severity of the laws; their clergy equalled thewealth a^l magnificence of the senate; and the gold and silver, which were seizedby the rapacious hand of Justinian, might perhaps be claimed as the spoils of theprovinces and the trophies of the barbarians. A second remnant of pagans, whostill lurked in the most refined and the most rustic conditions of mankind, excitedthe indignation of the Christians, who were perhaps unwilling that any strangersshould be the witnesses of their intestine quarrels. A bishop was named as theinquisitor of the faith, and his diligence soon discovered, in the court and city, themagistrates, lawyers, physicians, and sophists, who still cherished the superstitionof the Greeks. They were sternly informed that they must choose without delaybetween the displeasure of Jupiter or Justinian, and that their aversion to the gos­pel could no longer be disguised under the scandalous mask of indifference or im­piety. The patrician Photius perhaps alone was resolved to live and to die like hisancestors: he enfranchised himself with the stroke of a dagger, and left his tyrantthe poor consolation of exposing with ignominy the lifeless corpse of the fugitive.His weaker brethren submitted to their earthly monarch, underwent the cere­mony of baptism, and laboured, by their extraordinary zeal, to erase the suspicion,or to expiate the guilt, of idolatry. The native country of Homer, and the thea­tre of the Trojan war, still retained the last sparks of his mythology: by the careof the same bishop, seventy thousand pagans were detected and converted in Asia,Phrygia, Lydia, and Caria; ninety-six churches were built for the new proselytes;and linen vestments, Bibles, and liturgies, and vases of gold and silver, were sup­plied by the pious munificence of Justinian. (2) The Jews, who had been graduallystripped of their immunities, were oppressed by a vexatious law, which compelledthem to observe the festival of Easter the same day on which is was celebratedby the Christians. (3) And they might complain with the more reason, since thecatholics themselves did not agree with the astronomical calculations of their so­vereign: the people of Constantinople delayed the beginning of their Lent a wholeweek after it had been ordained by authority; and they had the pleasure of fastingseven days, while meat was exposed for sale by the command of the emperor. TheSamaritans of Palestine, (4) were a motley race, an ambiguous sect, rejected asJews by the pagans, by the Jews as schismatics, and by the Christians as idola­ters. The abomination of the cross had already been planted on their holy mountof Garizim,(5) but the persecution of Justinian offered only the alternative of bap­tism or rebellion. They chose the latter: under the standard of a desperateleader, they rose in arms, and retaliated their wrongs on the lives, the property,and the temples of a defenceless people. The Samaritans were finally subduedby the regular forces of the east; twenty thousand were slain, twenty thousandwere sold by the Arabs to the infidels of Persia and India, and the remains of thatunhappy nation atoned for the crime of treason by the sin of hypocrisy. It hasbeen computed that one hundred thousand Roman subjects were extirpated in theSamaritan war,(6) which converted the once fruitful province into a desolate andsmoking wilderness. But in the creed of Justinian, the guilt of murder could not (1) See the character and principles of the Montanists, in Moiheim, de Rchus Christ, ante Constantlnum, p. 410-12.1. (2) Theophan. Chron. p. 153. John de Monophysite bishop of Asia, is a more authentic witness of this trans­action.in which he was himself employed by the emperor. (Asieiuan. Rib. Orient, torn. ii. p. 85.) (3) Compare Proeopiu, (Hist. Atean. c. 2». and Aleman'l Notes with Theophanes. (Chron. p. 190.) Thecouncil of Nice has intrusted the patriarch, or rather the aitronomers of Alexandria, with the usual procla­mation of Kastei; and we still read, or rather we do not read, many of the Paschal epistles of St. Cyril. Sincethe reign of Munophytism in Egypt, the catholics were perplexed by as foolish a prejudice as that which solong opposed, among the protestants, the reception of the Gregorian style. (4) For the religion and history of the Samaritans, consult Basnage, Histoires des Juifs. a learned and im­partial work. (5) Sicbem, Neapolis. Nnplous, the ancient and modern seat of the Samaritans, is situate in ft valley be­tween the barren Ebal, the mountain of cursing to the north, the fruttfu I Garizim, or mountain of coningto the south, ten or eleven hours' travel from Jerusalem. Sec Mnundrel. Journey from Aleppo, tic. p. 39—63. (6) Procop. Anecdot. c. xi. Tbeophan. Chron. p. 152. John Malata, Chron. torn. ii. p. G2. I remember aitobservation, half philosophical, half superstitiout, that the province which had been ruiard by the fcjgQtryuf Justinian, was the tainu through which the Mahometans penetrated into theenyuce.