OCR Output KTLUS.433 NILUS. Slime have, in the coarse of ages, converted intoLower Aegypt. In all historical periods, however, theriver has discharged itself into the sea by two mainarms, forming the aides of an isosceles triangle, theboundaries of the Delta proper, and by a number ofbranches, some of which ran down to the sea, whileothers discharged their waters into the principalarms of the main stream. The Delta is, indeed, anet-work of rivers, primary and secondary; and isfurther intersected by numerous canals. The pri­mary channels were usually accounted by the an­cients srven in number (Herod, ii. 17; Scylax,p. 43; Strab. xvii. p.801,seq.; Diodor. i. 33; Ptol.iv. 5. § 10; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Mela, i. 9. § 9;Ammianos, xxii. 15, 16; Wilkinson, M. 4 C, Mod.Egypt and Thebes. Sfc), and may be taken in theord*.T following. They are denominated from someprincipal city seated on their banks, and are enume­rated from E. to W. 1. Beginning from the E.. was the Pelusianarm (to ntKowriatcbv <rr6fia. Strab. xvii. p, 801;Ostium Pelusiacum, Plin. v. 9. s. 9). This hasnow become dry; and even when Strabo wrote ahale before the first century a. d., Pelusium, whichetood on its banks, and from which it derived itsname, was nearly 2 J miles from the sea (xvii. p.806). The remains of the city are now more thanfour times that distance, Upon the banks of thePelusian arm stood, on the eastern side, and nearthe apex of the Delta, Heliopolis, the On of Scrip-itire; and 20 miles lower down, Bubastus (TelBarta). 21 The Tanitic arm (to TaviTUchv irr6fia, or toZaiTiif&r, Herod, ii. 17; comp. Strab. xvii. p. 802;>IpU, i. 9. § 9. Catapystum). The present canal ofMoneys probably coincides nearly with the Taniticbranch; which, however, together with the OstiumBacolicum, has been absorbed in the lower portionof its course by the lake Menzaleh. It derived itsname from Tanis, the Zoan of Scripture, the modernAna, in lat. 31°, one of the oldest cities of the Delta. 3. The Mendesian ann (to M«'67;*t(o*' m<>f.ia,StraK, &c.) was a channel running from the Seben-nytie Nile-arm. It is now lost in the lake Men-mkk. 4. The Phatnitic or Pathmetic arm (to *ot-rrrurOF arofia, Strab.; ♦aTTiaov, Diod. i. 33;naBinrruchv, Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 10, 40; Pathmeticum,Mela, i. 9. § 9.) This was the Bovko\ikuv arofuxof Herodotus (ii. 17); but it seems doubtful whetherit wtre an original channel, and not rather a canal.It ewTf^poods with the lower portion of the presentIktmiftta branch of the Nile. 5. The Sebennytic arm (to "2.i$*vvvTiKbv ar6/ui)derived, its name from the city of Sebennytus, thepresent Semenhoud. As far as this city the Dami-*tu% branch represents the ancient Sebennytic; butnorthward of this point, lat. 31°, the earlier channelis lost in the marshes or sands, which separate thepresent Delta from the Mediterranean; and its mouth,which was nearly due N. of Memphis, is now coveredfey the lake of Bovrhs. The Sebennytic arm, con­tinuing in the direction of the Nile before its divi-mm, L e. running nearly in a straight course fromK-, has some claims to be regarded not so much asene of the diverging branches as the main streamh*elf. This channel, together with the most easterly,tb* Peluiian, and the most westerly, the Canopic,wfre the three main amis of the Nile, and carrieddowrn to the sea by far the greater volumes ofwaier. VOL IL 6. The Bolbitic or Bolbitine arm (rb Bo\6tTtKbyo-to/ux, Strab. xvii. p. 803; Scyl. p. 43; or BoXSirtrbv,Herod, ii. 17; Diodor. i. 33; BoMirivov, Ptol. iv.5. §§ 10, 43; Bolbiticuin, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Am-mian. xxii. 15), was, like the Phatnitic, originallyan artificial canal, and seems in the time of Hero­dotus to have been a branch connecting the Seben­nytic with the Canopic channels (ii. 17), having,however, an outlet of its own, probably as a back­water during the inundation, to the Mediterranean.The Bolbitic arm is now represented by so much ofthe Rosetta branch of the Nile as runs between thesea and the ancient course of the Ostium Cano­pic urn. 7. The Canopic arm (to KavotSucbv <rr6fiat Strab./. c; comp. Aristot. Meteorol. i. 14; Ostium Cano-picum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Plin. v. 10. s. 11) was alsotermed the Naucratic arm of the Nile, Ostium Nau-craticum (Plin. /. c), from the city of Naucratis,which was seated on its left bank. This was the mostwesterly, and one of the three great branches of theNile (see Pelusian, Sebennytic). In the first portionof its descent from the point of the Delta the Canopicarm skirted the Libyan desert. At the city of Tere-nuthis (Teranieh), a road, about (38 miles in length,through the calcareous ridge of hills, connected itwith the Natron Lakes. On its right bank, belowthis point, stood the ancient city of Sais, and a fewmiles lower down, Naucratis. From its vicinity, atfirst, to this city, the Canton of Aegypt, and after­wards, by means of the canal which connected itwith the lake Mareotis on the one hand, and Alex­andria on the other, the Canopic branch retainedits importance; and its embankments were the cureof the government of Aegypt long after its rivalbranches, the Sebennytic and Pelusian, were desertedor had been suffered to flow uselessly into themarshes. It is now represented in the upper por­tion of its channel by the Rosetta branch of the ^ile.But they diverge from each other at lat. 31°, wherethe elder arm turned off to the W., and dischargeditself into the Mediterranean near the present bay andforeland of Aboukir. Its mouth is now covered by ashallow lagoon, intersected by strips of sand and allu­vial deposit, called the lake of Madieh. The Ca­nopic arm of the Nile, although not actually thewestern boundary of Aegypt, was, at least, in thePharaonic era, the limit of" its commerce on the NW.base of the Delta, since beyond it, until the buildingof Alexandria, there was no town of any importance. The canals which were derived from the Nile forthe convenience of local intercourse and irrigation,were very numerous; and the prosperity of Aegypt,especially on the Arabian side of the river, dependedin great measure upon their being kept in good re­pair, and conveying to the arid waste a sufficientsupply of water. Hence the condition of the canalswas almost synonymous with the good or bad admi­nistration of Aegypt; and we find that among thefirst cares of Augustus, after adding this kingdom tohis provinces, in b. c, 24, was to repair and rehabi­litate the canals, which had fallen into decay underthe misrule of the later Ptolemies. (Suet. Avg. 18;Dion. Ii. 68; Aurel. Vict. Epit. i. 5.) For nationalcommerce, however, there were only two of theseartificial channels upon a large scale between Syeneand the sea. (1.) The canal called, in differentages, the river of Ptolemy (nToAt^oTos woruft6stDiodor. i. 33; Plin. v. 29. s. 23), and the river of Tra­jan (Tpai'avbs trora^os, Ptol. iv. 5. § 54). This hadbeen commenced by Pharaoh Xecho II. (is. c.480), was T P