OCR Output CHAP. 57. ROMAN HISTORY. 191 not the whole assembly, highly incensed at the beha­viour of Appius, taken part with their tribune against theconsul, great numbers of their body, upon the alarm,flocking thither from all parts of the city. Appius, how­ever did uot flinch, but stoutly stood the storm, whichwould certainly have ended in blood, had not Quinctius,the other consul, given it in charge to the senators ofconsular dignity, to remove his colleague from the forumby force, if persuasion should be ineffectual, whilst hehimself endeavoured to mollify the people by the warm­est intreaties, and conjured the tribunes to dismiss the as­sembly, and give their passion time to subside, " That a"few hours delay would not diminish .their power, but"would add wisdom to direct it: That the consul would"be advised by the fathers, and the fathers would com-"ply with the people." CHAP. LVII. Peace restored by means of Stuinciius. Obstinacy of thearmy under Appius. JLT was with some difficulty that Quinctius composedthe people, but in bringing the other consul to himself,the senate found still more. At length when the assem­bly of the people was dismissed, the senate was conven­ed by the consuls. Anger and fear dictating by turns,produced a variety of sentiments; but the longer theydeliberated, the more they saw the folly of continuingthese contests; insomuch, that Quinctius had the thanksof the house for interfering so seasonably, to suspend thedaemon of discord. On the other hand, they conjuredAppius, " Not to carry his zeal for the dignity of the con-"sulship, beyond what was consistent with the peace"and harmony of the state. That whilst the consuls"and tribunes were dragging every thing to themselves,"the state was left naked and impotent between them,"each side seeming less intent upon its safety, than"upon making themselves its masters." On the other hand, Appius " called gods and men to/•' witness, that they abandoned and betrayed the com-"monwealth, through mere pusillanimity.—That the