OCR Output MAGNA GRAECIA. 219 MAGNA GRAECIA. time of the Persian invasion. It is still more remark­able, that even when the Athenians and Lacedaemo­nians sent an embassy to Sicily to invoke the assist­ance of Gelon, we do not hear of any similar appli­cation to the Greek cities in Southern Italy. While the Achaean cities were thus declining fromtheir former prosperity, Rhegium, the name of whichis scarcely mentioned in history at an earlier period,was raised to a position of considerable power andimportance under the rule of the despot Anaxilas(i>.c- 496—476), who united under his authoritythe city of Messana also, on the opposite side of thestraits, and thus became involved in connection withthe polities of Sicily, which had been hitherto verydistinct from those of Magna Graecia. Micythus, thesuccessor of Anaxilas in the government of Rhegium,was remarkable as the founder of the colony ofPyxus (afterwards called Buxentnm), on the Tyr-rlienian sea, in B. c 471. (Diod. xi. 59.) This wasthe latest of the Greek settlements in that quarter. About the same time (B.C.473) we find mentionof a disastrous defeat, which must, for a time, havegiven a severe check to the rising power of theTarentines. That people appear to have taken littlepart in the disputes or contests of their Achaeanctyhbonrs ; but after their ineffectual attempt to op-pe* the founding of Metapontum [Metapontijm],would seem to have been principally engaged inextending their commerce, and in wars with theneighbouring barbarians. Here they found, amongthe lapygians or Messapians, a more formidableopposition than was encountered by the other Greekcities. After repeated contests, in many of whichthey had come off victorious and reduced many ofthe Iapygian towns, the Tarentines were defeatedin a preat battle by the lapygians, with such heavyloss that Herodotus tells us it was the greatestslaughter of Greek citizens that had happenedwithin his knowledge. Three thousand Rhegianauxiliaries, who had been sent to the support of theTarentines. perished on the same occasion. (Herod.vi. 170; Diod. xi. 52.) The period between the Persian and PeloponnesianWars witnessed the establishment of the two latestof the Greek colonies in Southern Italy—Thi'RIIand Heraclea. Both of these were, however, buta kind of renewal of previously existing settlements.Tburii was founded in B. c. 443, by a body ofcolonists, of whom the Athenians seem to have takenthe lead, but which was composed, in great part, ofsettlers from other states of Greece [Tmrim] ; withwhom were united the remaining citizens of Syharis,and the new colony was established within two milesof the site of that city. The new settlement roserapidly to prosperity, but was soon engaged in warwith the Tarentines for the possession of the vacantdistrict of Siris; until these hostilities were atlength terminated by a compromise, according towhich the two rival cities joined in establishing anew colony, three miles from the site of the ancientSiris, to which they gave the name of Heraclea,B. c 432. (Strab. vi. p. 264; Diod. xii. 23, 36.)But though thus founded by common consent, theTarentines seem to have had much the largest sharein its establishment, and Heraclea was always con­sidered as a colony of Tarcntnm. Daring the Peloponnesian War the cities of MagnaGraecia seem to have studiously kept aloof from thec ntest. Even when the Athenian expedition toSicily (b. c. 415) involved the whole of the Greekcities in that island in the war, those on the coasts of Italy still endeavoured to preserve their neutrality,and refused to admit the Athenian forces within thi irwalls, though they did not offer any obstruction totheir progress. (Thuc. vi. 44; Diod. xiii. 3.) Ata later period, however, the Thurians (among whomthere was naturally an Athenian party) and theMetapontines were induced to enter into a regularalliance with Athens, and supplied a small force totheir assistance. (Thuc vii. 33, 35; Diod. xiii,11.) At this period the cities of Magna Graecia seemto have been still in a prosperous and flourishingcondition; but it was not long after that they beganto feel the combined operation of two causes whichmainly contributed to their decline. The firstdanger which threatened them wns from the south,where Dionysius, tyrant of Syracuse, after havingestablished his power over the greater part of Sicily,began to seek to extend it in Italy also. Hithertothe cities of Italy had kept aloof in great measurefrom the revolutions and wars of the neighbouringisland: Rhegium and Locii alone seem to havemaintained closer relations with the Sicilian Greeks.The former, from its Chalcidic origin, was naturallyfriendly to the colonies of the same race in Sicily;and when Dionysius turned his arms against theChalcidic cities, Naxos, Catana, and Leontini, he atonce brought on himself the enmity of the Rhegians.Hence, when he soon after applied to conclude amatrimonial alliance with them, the proposal wasindignantly rejected. The Locrians, on the otherhand, readily accepted his offer, and thus securedthe powerful assistance of the despot in his subse­quent wars. (Diod. xiv. 44, 107.) From this timehis efforts were mainly directed to the humiliationof Rhegium and the aggrandisement of the Locrians.His designs in this quarter soon excited so muchalarm, that, in n. c. 393, the Italian Greeks wereinduced to conclude a general league for theirmutual protection against the arms of Dionysius onthe one side, as well as those of the Lucanians onthe other. (Id. 91.) But the result was far fromsuccessful. The combined forces of the confede­rates were defeated by Dionysius in a great battleat the river Helleporus or Helorus, near Caulonia,n. c. 389; and this blow was followed by the cap­ture of Caulonia itself, as well as Hipponium, bothof which places were reduced toastate of dependenceon Locri. Not long after, the powerful city ofRhegium was compelled to surrender, after a siegeof nearly eleven months, B.C. 387. (Diod. xiv.103—108, 111.) While the more southerly cities of Magna Graeciawere suffering thus severely from the attacks ofDionysius, those on the northern frontier weremenaced by a still more formidable danger. TheLucanians, a Sabellian race or branch of the Samnitestock, who had pressed forward into the territory ofthe Oenotrians, and had gradually expelled or re­duced to subjection the tribes of that people whoinhabited the mountain districts of the interior,next turned their arms against the Greek cities onthe coast. Posidonia, the most northerly of thesesettlements, was the first which fell under theiryoke (Strab. vi. p. 254); and though we cannot fixwith accuracy the date of its conquest, it is probablethat this took place some time before we find themengaged in wars with the cities on the Tarentinogulf. If, indeed, we can trust to the uncertainchronology of some of these events, they would seemto have been already engaged in hostilities with the