OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 255 pie still supporting Hyrcanus, and assisting him in the siege, whilenone but the priests continued with Aristobulus. So Aretasunited the forces of the Arabians and of the Jews together, andpressed on the siege vigorously. As this happened at the timewhen the feast of unleavened bread was celebrated, which wecall the passover, the principal men among the Jews left the coun­try and fled into Egypt. Now there was one whose name wasOnias, a righteous man he was, and beloved of God, who, in acertain drought, had prayed to God to put an end to the intenseheat, and whose prayers God had heard, and had sent them rain.This man had hid himself, because he saw that this seditionwould last a great while. However they brought him to theJewish camp, and desired, that as by his prayers he had once putan end to the drought, so he would in like manner make impre­cations on Aristobulus, and those of his faction. And when,upon his refusal, and the excuses that he made, he was still by themultitude compelled to speak, he stood up in the midst of them,and said, "O God, the king of the whole world! since those that"stand now with me are thy people, and those that are besieged"are also thy priests, I beseech thee, that thou wilt neither"hearken to the prayers of those against these, nor bring to"effect what these pray against those." Whereupon such wick­ed Jews as stood about him, as soon as he had made this prayer,stoned him to death. 2. But God punished them immediately for this their barba­rity, and took vengeance of them for the murder of Onias, inthe manner following: While the priests and Aristobulus werebesieged, it happened that the feast called the Passover was come,at which it is our custom to offer a great number of sacrificesto God; but those that were with Aristobulus wanted sacrifices,and desired that their countrymen without would furnish themwith such sacrifices, and assured them they should have as muchmoney for them as they should desire; and when they requiredthem to pay a thousand drachmae for each head of cattle, Aristo­bulus and the priests willingly undertook to pay for them ac­cordingly, and those within let down the money over the walls,and gave it them. But when the others had received it, theydid not deliver the sacrifices, but arrived at that height of wick­edness as to break the assurances they had given, and to be guiltyof impiety towards God, by not furnishing those that wantedthem with sacrifices. And when the priests found they had beencheated, and that the agreements they had made were violated,they prayed to God, that he would avenge them on their coun­trymen. Nor did he delay that their punishment, but sent astrong and vehement storm of wind, that destroyed the fruits ofthe whole country, till a modius of wheat was then bought foreleven drachmas.