OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF, THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 465 rather than in a future life. After the abdication ofMaurice, the two factions disputed the choice of an em­peror; but the favourite of the blues was rejected by thejealousy of their antagonists, and Germanus himself washurried along by the crowds, who rushed to the palaceof Hebdomon, seven miles from the city, to adore the *majesty of Phocas the centurion. A modest wish ofresigning the purple to the rank and merit of Germanuswas opposed by his resolution, more obstinate and equallysincere: the senate and clergy obeyed his summons,and as soon as the patriarch was assured of his orthodoxbelief, lie consecrated the successful usurper in the churchof St. John the Baptist. On the third day, amidst theacclamations of a thoughtless people, Phocas made hispublic entry in a chariot drawn by four white horses;the revolt of the troops was rewarded by a lavish dona­tive, and the new sovereign, after visiting the palace,beheld from his throne the'games of the hippodrome.In a dispute of precedency between the two factions,his partial judgment inclined in favour of the greens. -"Remember that Maurice is still alive," resoundedfrom the opposite side; and the indiscreet clamour ofthe blues admonished and stimulated the cruelty of, thetyrant. The ministers of death were dispatched to Chal-cedon: they dragged the emperor from his sanctuary;and the five sons of Maurice were successively murderedbefore the eyes of their agonizing parent. At eachstroke which he felt in his heart, he found strength torehearse a pious ejaculation,—" Thou art just, O Lord! Death ofand thy judgments are righteous." And such, in the BndTi»elast moments, was his rigid attachment to truth and aI'd^osjustice, that he revealed to the soldiers the pious false- NoT- *7-hood of a nurse who presented her own child in theplace of a royal infant.2 The tragic scene was finally * From this generous attempt, Corneille has deduced the intricate web of his tra­gedy of Heraclius, which requires more than one representation to be clearly under­stood; (Corneille de Voltaire, tom. 5. p. 300.) and which, after an interval of someyears, is said to hare puzzled the author himself. (Anecdotes Dramatiuues, tom. 1.p. 422.)