OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 81 surrender us as unsanctified persons, which you maydo without offence to religion; those sacred and in­violable personages, the tribunes, you will deliver upas soon as they go out of office : but if you listen tome, they will be first scourged with rods, here in theComitium, by way of interest for their punishment, onaccount of the delay of payment: for as to their de­nying that the people are acquitted of the religiousobligation by our being given up, who is there soignorant of the laws of the heralds, as not to know thatthose men speak in that manner to prevent themselvesfrom being surrendered, rather than because the caseis really so? Still I do not deny, conscript fathers,that compacts on sureties given are as sacred as trea­ties in the eyes of all who regard faith between menwith the same reverence which is paid to duties re­specting the gods : but I insist that without the orderof the people nothing can be ratified that is to bindthe people. Suppose that out of the same arrogancewith which the Samnites forced from us the conventionin question, they had compelled us to repeat the esta­blished form of words for the surrendering of cities,would you, tribunes, say that the Roman people hadsurrendered ? and that this city, these temples andconsecrated grounds, these lands and waters, were be­come the property of the Samnites? I say no more ofthe surrender, because our having become sureties isthe point insisted on. Now suppose we had becomesureties, that the Roman people should quit this city;that they should set it on fire ; that they should haveno magistrates, no senate, no laws ; that they shouldin future be ruled by kings : the gods forbid, you say.But the enormity of the articles lessens not the obliga­tion of a compact. If the people can be bound in anyone instance, it can in all. Nor is there any impor­tance in another circumstance, which weighs, perhaps,with some: whether a consul, a dictator, or a pretor,be the surety. And this indeed was the judgment,even of the Samnites themselves, who were not satis­fied with the security of the consuls, but compelledLIV. VOL. ill. F