OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 133 visions for a voyage, perhaps, of three months. Theproud galleys, which in former ages swept the Mediterra­nean with so many hundred oars, had long since disap­peared; and the fleet of Justinian was escorted only byninety-two light brigantines, covered from the missileweapons of the enemy, and rowed by two thousand ofthe brave and robust youth of Constantinople. Twenty-two generals are named, most of whom were afterwarddistinguished in the wars of Africa and Italy: but thesupreme command, both by land and sea, was delegatedto Belisarius alone, with a boundless power of acting ac­cording to his discretion, as if the emperor himself werepresent. The separation of the naval and military pro­fessions is at once the effect and the cause of modernimprovements in the science of navigation and mari­time war. In the seventh year of the reign of Justinian, and Departureabout the time of the summer solstice, the whole fleet a. d. 533,'of six hundred ships was ranged in martial pomp before June"the gardens of the palace. The patriarch pronouncedhis benediction, the emperor signified his last commands,the general's trumpet gave the signal of departure, andevery heart, according to its fears or wishes, exploredwith anxious curiosity the omens of misfortune and suc­cess. The first halt was made at Perinthus or Heraclea,where Belisarius waited five days to receive some Thra-cian horses, a military gift of his sovereign. From thencethe fleet pursued their course through the midst of thePropontis; but, as they struggled to pass the straits ofthe Hellespont, an unfavourable wind detained themfour days at Abydus, where the general exhibited a me­morable lesson of firmness and severity. Two of theHuns, who, in a drunken quarrel, had slain one of theirfellow-soldiers, were instantly shewn to the army sus­pended on a lofty gibbet. The national indignity wasresented by their countrymen, who disclaimed the ser­vile laws of the empire, and asserted the free privilege of K 2