OCR Output VESUVIUS MONS.VETILOXIA. 1265 bably the one alluded to by Galen (de Meth. v. 12),md it seems certain from the description given byDion Caasius of the state of the mountain when bewrote (under Alexander Severus) that it was thenin a state of occasional, but irregular, activity, muchresembling that which exists at the present day.(Dion Caaa. lxvi. 21.) The only other eruptionthat we find mentioned under the Roman Empire oc­curred in a. d. 472 under the reign of Anthemius.(Marcellin. Chron. ad ann.) A fourth, whichlook place in the reign of Theodoric king of theGuths (a. n. 512), is noticed by both Cassiodorusand 1'rocopius, who describe in considerable detailthe f henoniena of the mountain. It appears certainthat these later eruptions were accompanied by thedischarge of streams of lava, which caused great mis­chief to the surrounding country. (Cassiod. Ep.ir. SO; Procop. B. O. ii. 4, iv. 35.) It would be foreign to our subject to trace thehistoryof the mountain through the middle ages, but it maybe mentioned that its eruptions seem to hare been farmore rare and separated by longer intervals thanthey have been for more than two centuries past;and in some instances at least these intervals wereperiods of perfect quiescence, during which the moun­tain wis rapidly losing its peculiar aspect Even uslate as 1611, after an interval of little more than acentury, the sides of the mountain were covered withforests, and the crater itself was overgrown withfhruba and rich herbage. (Daubeny on Volcanoes,p. 235.) At the present day Vesuvius consists of two dis-tinct portions: the central cone, which is now themost elevated part of the mountain; and a ridgew hich encircles this on three sides at some distance,and is separated from it by a level valley or hollowt railed the A trio del Carallo. This outer ridge, ofwliirfi the highest point, nearits X. extremity, iscalledJfonie Somma, was probably at one time continuousi»n all aides of the circle, but is now broken down ontl»e S. and W. face*: hence the appearance of Vcsu-v i us as viewed from Naples or from the W. is that ofa mountain having two peaks separated by a deepdepression. This character is wholly at variance withLite description given by Strabo, who tells us that}it» summit was nearly level, but with clefts andi~^xirc9 in it, from which fire appeared to have for-nerly issued (v. p. 247). Hence it is probable that::€- mountain was then a single truncated cone, andbsmAt the vast crater-like hollow of which the Atrio>/ Carallo forms part, was first created by theteat eruption of A. B. 79, which blew into the airt,^ -whole mass of the then existing summit of thefountain, leaving the present ridge of Monte Somma^ruling, enclosing a vast crater, within which therecent cone has gradually formed. (Daubeny on',^/oanoes. p. 215; Lyell's Principles of Geology,365, 8th edit) It has indeed been frequently.unnel from the accounts of the operations of Spar-^ cx» already mentioned (Elor. iii. 20; l'lut. Crow. 9)iat t he mountain had even then a crater, withinl„cb that leader and his band were enclosed by the.jsxxat general; but it is very doubtful whether thel^ssfs+jZ'a in question bear out thisinterpretation, whichrfl15 at variance with the account given by Strabo,mr- description has every appearance of being de-,<r<j from personal observation./^Tooceniing the history of the different eruptions-y^^xxvius see Delia Torre, Storia ilel I'esurto, 4to.,noli- '"55; and the geological work of Dr. Dan-fyZch- xii-) [E. H. BO VETERA [Castra Vktera.] VETTONA (F.th. Vettonensis: Bettona), a mu­nicipal town of Unibria, situated about 5 miles K.of the Tiber, between Perusia and Mevania. It ismentioned by Pliny among the municipalities ofUmbria, and its name is found also in an inscriptionamong the "XV Populi Umbriae;" while anothermentions it in connection with Perusia, from whichit was only about 10 miles distant, as measured onthe map, though the Tabula calls it 14 miles fromthat city and 20 from Tuder. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19;Orel), /riser. 95, 98: Tab. Peat.) Vettona con­tinued in the middle ages to be a city of con­siderable importance, but it was destroyed by thePerugians in 1352> The ancient site is, however,still marked by the village of Bettona, about amile from the left bank of the Tinia. [E. II. B.j VETTONES (Oifi-wcs, Strab. iii. p. 152;Ov*ttov*s, Ptol. ii. 5. § 9), one of the principalpeoples of Lusitania. (Caes. B. C. i. 38; Plin. iv.21. s. 38 ; Grut Inter, p. 383. 7.) Strabo alone(L c.) assigns them to Hither Iberia, or the ProvinciaTarraconensis. We find their country called Vet-tonia by Prudentius (Hymn, in Eulal. v. 186) andin an inscription. (Oielli, no. 3664.) It waswatered by the Tagus, anil separated by the Duriusfrom Asturia on the hi. Ou the W., where theirboundary corresponded very nearly with that ofmodern Portugal, they adjoined the proper Lusi-tani. On the E. they neighboured on the Carpetaniin Hispania Tarraconensis, and their boundary wouldbe described by a line drawn from the modernSinancas in a SW. direction over Puente del A rto-bispo to Truxillo. On the S. they were boundedby the province of Baetica, so that their countrycomprehended a part of Estrt-madura and Leon.Their principal towns were Salmantica {Salamanca),Cecilionicum (Banost), Capara (fas Yentas de Ca-para), Senticc (in the neighbourhood of Lot Santos),Cottaeohriga (Almeida), Augustobriga (ViudadKodrigot), &C. In their country grew the herbaVettouica (Plin. xxv. 7. a. 46), still known underthe name of betony; an account of which is given inthe treatise De Utrba Bcttmica, ascribed to AntoniusMusa. [T. H. D.] VETULO'MA or VETULCNIUM (OverevAje-viov, Ptol. iii 1. § 49: ElK. Vetulonienses), one ofthe twelve principal cities of the Etruscan confedera­tion (Dionya. iii. 51; Plin. iii. 5. a. 8). Yet wehear nothing of its political history; and all weknow respecting it is, that it was reputed to be thetown iu which the Etruscan insignia of magistracy,afterwards adopted by the Romans, such as tbelictors, fasces, sella enrulis, toga praetexta, &c,as well as tbe trumpet, were first used. (SiL It. viii.483, sqq.; cf. Dionys. iii. 61; Strab. v. p. 220;Macr.S. i. 6; Flor. i. 5; Ac) The destruction of Velulonia, and the silence ofhistory respecting it, have caused even its site to bea matter of doubt- Thus it has been sought at ornear Yiterbo (Annio, Antiqq. Var. Yolum.\ atMassa Marittima, the ancient Massa Velernensis(Amm. Mare. xiv. 11. § 25), or in a dense wood 5miles to the W. of that town (Ximenes, ap. Inghirami,Rictrchedi Yetulouia, p. 62; cf. Targioni-Tozxelti,1 'inggi in Totcama, iv. p. 116); on the site ofYuki (Luc. Buonaparte, Ann. Itut. 1829, p. 188,sqq.; and Valeriani, Slut. Chios, i. p. 68); on the hillof Castiglione Beruardi, near Monte HoUmdu (Ing-hirami, tiiotrcht di YetiUonia, Ambroscb), and atOrbctello (Ennolao Barbaro, ap. Dtmptttr, Etrar. 4 N 3