OCR Output ?0 TJJE PELOPONJJESIAN WAR. questing them " from the tie of consanguinity to undertaketheir protection, and not to leave them thus largely exposedto the violence of Pausanias." This request was favourablyheard by the Athenians, who expressed their willingness toput a stop to such grievances, and to re-settle the general or­der, to the best of their power.—But during this the Lacedae­monians recalled Pausanias, that he might answer what waslaid to his charge. Many of the Grecians had carried to themaccusations against him for an unjust abuse of his power,since in his behaviour he resembled more a tyrant than ageneral. And it so fell out, that he was recalled just at thetime when the confederates, out of hatred to him, had rangedthemselves under the Athenian orders, excepting those troopswhich were of Peloponnesus. Upon his return to Lacedae-mon, he was convicted upon trial of misdemeanors towardsparticulars, but of the heaviest part of the charge he is ac­quitted : For the principal accusation against him was an at*tachment to the Medish interest: and it might be judged tooclear to stand in need of proof. Him therefore they no longerintrust with the public command, but appoint in his steadDorcis with some colleagues to command what little force oftheir own remained. To these the confederates would nolonger yield the supreme command; which so soon as theyperceived, they returned home. And here the Lacedaemoni­ans desisted from commissioning any others to take uponthem that post; fearing, lest those who should be sent mightby their behaviour still more prejudice the Lacedaemonian in­terest, a case they had reason to dread from the behaviour ofPausanias. They were now grown desirous to rid them­selves of the Medish war: they acknowledged the Athenianshad good pretensions to enjoy the command, and at that timewere well affected towards them. The Athenians having in this manner obtained the su­preme command, by the voluntary tender of the whole con­federacy in consequence of their aversion to Pausanias ; theyF.xed by their own authority the quotas, whether of ships or