OCR Output 268 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. upon his father's throne, they were obedientfrom that day. CHAP. XV. OF THE CHARGE WHICH DAVID GAVE TO HIS SON SOLOMON,AT THE APPROACH OF HIS DEATH, AND OF THE MATERIALSHE LEFT HIM FOR BUILDING A TEMPLE. A LITTLE afterward *David fell into adistemper, by reason of his age; andperceiving that he was near to death, hecalled his son Solomon, and discoursed tohim thus: "I am now, O my son! going tomy grave, and to my fathers; which is thecommon way which all men that now are, orthat shall be hereafter, must go. From whichway it is no longer possible to return, and toknow any thing that is done in this world. Itherefore exhort thee, while I am still alive,though already very near to death, in thesame manner as I have formerly said in myadvice to thee; to be righteous towards thysubjects, and religious towards God, whohath given thee thy kingdom; to observe hiscommands, and his laws, which he hath sentus by Moses; and neither do thou out of fa­vour nor flattery, allow any lust or passion toweigh with thee, to disregard them; for ifthou transgressest his law, thou wilt lose thefavour of God, and thou wilt turn away hisprovidence from thee in all things. But ifthou behave thyself so as I exhort thee, thouwilt preserve our kingdom to our family, andno other house will bear rule over the He­brews, but we ourselves for all ages. Bethou also mindful of the transgression ofJoab,f the captain of the host, who hath slaintwo generals out of envy, and those righteousand good men; Abner the son of Ner, and Amasa the son of Jether; whose death do thouavenge, as shall seem good to thee; sinceJoab hath been too hard for me, and morepotent than myself; and so hath escapedpunishment hitherto. I also commit to theethe son of Barzillai, the Gileadite, whom, inorder to gratify me, thou shalt have in greathonour, and take great care of. For we havenot done good to him first; but we only repaythat debt which we owe his father, for whathe did to me in my flight. There is alsoShimei the son of Gera, of the tribe of Ben­jamin, who after he had cast many reproachesupon me, when, in my flight, I was going toMahanaim, met me at Jordan, and receivedassurances that he should then suffer nothing.Do thou now seek out for some just occasion,and punish him." When David had given these admonitionsto his son respecting public affairs, and aboutthose whom he knew to deserve punishment,he died; having lived seventy years,J andreigned seven years and six months in He­bron, over the tribe of Judah; and thirty-three years in Jerusalem, over all the country.This man was of an excellent character, andwas endowed with all virtues that were de­sirable in a king, and in one that had thepreservation of so many tribes committed tohim. For he was a man of valour, in a veryextraordinary degree; and went readily andfirst of all into dangers, when he was to fightfor his subjects; as exciting the soldiers toaction by his own labours, and fighting forthem; and not by commanding them in a des­potic way. He was also of very great abili­ties in apprehension of present and futurecircumstances, when he was to manage anyaffairs. He was prudent, moderate, and kind * An. 1056. t David is here greatly blamed by some, for recom­mending Joab and Shimei to be punished by Solomon, ifhe could find a proper occasion, after he bad borne withthe first a long while; and seemed to have pardoned theother entirely; which Solomon executed accordingly.—Yet do I not discern any fault either in David or Solomonin these cases. Joab's murder3 of Abner and Amasa werevery barbarous, and could not properly be forgiven eitherby David or Solomon. For a dispensing power in kingsfor the crime of wilful murder, is warranted by no law ofGod, nay is directly against it every where. Nor is it inthe power of men to grant such a prerogative to any oftheir kings. Though Joab was so nearly related to David,and so potent in the army under a warlike administration, that David durst not himself put him to death; as he sayshere, and 2 Sam. iii. 39. and xix. 7. Shimei's cursing theLord's anointed, and this without any just cause, was thehighest act of treason against God, and his anointed king,and justly deserved death. And though David could for­give treason against himself, yet had he done no more inthe case of Shimei than promised him, that he would notthen, on the day of his return and re-inauguration, orupon that occasion, himself put him to death, 2 Sam. xix.22. and he swore to him no farther, verse 23. as the wordsare in Josephus, than that he would Dot then put him todeath; which he performed. Nor was Solomon underany obligation to spare such a traitor.J From an. 1126 to 1056 B. C.