OCR Output CHAP. L. 269 are recorded by tradition: hostility was imbittered withthe rancour of civil faction: and the recital, in prose orverse, of an obsolete feud, was sufficient to rekindle thesame passions among the descendants of the hostiletribes. In private life, every man, at least every family,was the judge and avenger of his own cause. The nicesensibility of honour, which weighs the insult ratherthan the injury, sheds its deadly venom on the quarrelsof the Arabs: the honour of their women, and of theirbeards, is most easily wounded; an indecent action, acontemptuous word, can be expiated only by the bloodof the offender; and such is their patient inveteracy,that they expect whole months and years the opportu­nity of revenge. A fine or compensation for murder isfamiliar to the barbarians of every age: but in Arabiathe kinsmen of the dead are at liberty to accept theatonement, or to exercise with their own hands the lawof retaliation. The refined malice of the Arabs refuseseven the head of the murderer, substitutes an innocentto the guilty person, and transfers the penalty to thebest and most considerable of the race by whom theyhave been injured. If he falls by their hands, they areexposed in their turn to the danger of reprisals, the in­terest and principal of the bloody debt are accumulated;the individuals of either family lead a life of malice andsuspicion, and fifty years- may sometimes elapse beforethe account of vengeance be finally settled.0 Thissanguinary spirit, ignorant of pity or forgiveness, hasbeen moderated, however, by the maxims of honour,which require in every private encounter some decentequality of age and strength, of numbers and weapons.Annual An annual festival of two, perhaps of four, months,trnce' was observed by the Arabs before the time of the battles of the Arabs, lived in the ninth and tenth century. The famous war ofDalies and Gabrah was occasioned by two horses, lasted forty years, and endedin a proverb. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 48.) 0 The modern theory and practice of the Arabs in the revenge of murder, aredescribed byNiebuhr. (Description, p. 26—51.) The harsher features of antiquitymay be traced in the Koran, c. 3. p. 10. c. 17. p. ISO. with Sale's observations.