OCR Output 10 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. from the port to the Propontis across the enlargedXIV' breadth of the triangle, at the distance of fifteenstadia from the ancient fortification; and with thecity of Byzantium they inclosed five of the sevenhills, which, to the eyes of those who approach Con­stantinople, appear to rise above each other in beauti­ful order. About a century after the death of thefounder, the new building, extending on one side upthe harbour, and on the other along the Propontis,already covered the narrow ridge of the sixth, andthe broad summit of the seventh hill. The necessityof protecting those suburbs from the incessant inroadsof the barbarians, engaged the younger Theodosiusto surround his capital with an adequate and per­manent inclosure of walls. From the eastern pro­montory to the golden gate, the extreme length ofConstantinople was about three Roman miles; thecircumference measured between ten and eleven;and the surface might be computed as equal to abouttwo thousand English acres. It is impossible tojustify the vain and credulous exaggerations of mo­dern travellers, who have sometimes stretched thelimits of Constantinople over the adjacent villages ofthe European, and even of the Asiatic coast *. Butthe suburbs of Pera and Galata, though situate be­yond the harbour, may deserve to be considered as apart of the cityt; and this addition may perhaps<• authorise the measure of a Byzantine historian, whoassigns sixteen Greek (about fourteen Roman) milesfor the circumference of his native city. Such an * The accurate Thevenot (1 . i. c. 15.) walked in one hour and three quartersround two of the sides of the triangle, from the Kiosk of the Seraglio to the seventowers. D'Anville examines with care, and receives^ with confidence, this de­cisive testimony, which gives a circumference of ten or twelve miles. The extra­vagant computation ofTournefort (Lettre XI.) of thirty-four or thirty miles,without including Scutari, is a strange departure from his usual character. T The sycse, or fig-trees, formed the thirteenth region, and were very muchembellished by Justinian. It has since bome the name of Pera and Galata.The etymology of the former is obvious; that of the latter is unknown. See Du-cange, Const. 1. i. c.22. and GylUus de Byzant. 1. iv. c. 10.