OCR Output OF ROME. 113 to the conful Brutus, and there were two fons born BOOK.of that marriage, now grown up, Titus and Tibe- . - --frius: thefe were led in, by their uncles, to take part Y.R. 145.in the defign; and feveral others of the young nobi- B.c. s°7.lity were drawn into the confpiracy, whofe names,at this diftance of time, are unknown. In the mean­while, the opinion of thofe, who advifed the givingup of the effects, having prevailed in the fenate, thisafforded the ambaffadors a pretext for delaying inthe city, becaufe they had been allowed time by theconfuls, to procure carriages for the conveyance ofthe effects of the princes; and all this time they fpentin confutations with the confpirators, and had, bypreffing inftances, prevailed upon them, to givethem letters for the Tarquinii; for, "without thefe,"how could they be fo fully aflured, as an affair of"that high importance required, that this report of"the ambafladors was not groundlefs?" Thefe let­ters, given as a pledge of their fincerity, proved themeans of detecting the plot: for the day before thaton which they were to return to the Tarquinii, theambalfadors happening to fup with the Vhellii, andthe confpirators having here in private had muchconverfation, as was natural, on the fubject of their'new enterprife, their difcourfe was overheard by oneof the flaves, who had, before this, difcovered thanfuch a defign was in agitation, but waited for thisopportunity, until the letters mould be given to theambaffadors; becaufe thefe, being feized, would fur-nifh full proof of the tranfaction. As foon as hefound that they were delivered, he made adifcoveryof the affair to the confuls. The confuis, fettingout from home directly, and apprehending the am-baflkdors and confpirators in the faift, effectuallycrufhed the affair without any tumult; taking par­ticular care, with regard to the letters, that theyfhould not efcape them. They inftantly threw thetraitors into chains, but hefitated for fome time withregard to proceeding againft the ambaffadors*; andVOL. i. i though,