OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 405 period it amounted to almost £860,000 (ii. 331,382) and wasdoubtless constantly on the increase. All these facts taken together certainly lead to the infer­ence that the position of the Roman finances at this epochwas on the whole favourable. Only we may not in a financialpoint of view overlook the fact that, while the governmentduring the two earlier thirds of this period executed splendidand magnificent buildings, it neglected to make other outlays"at least as necessary. We have already indicated how un­satisfactory were its military arrangements; the frontiercountries and even the valley of the Po (P. 175) were pillagedby barbarians, and bands of robbers made havoc in the in­terior even of Asia Minor, Sicily, and Italy. The fleet wastotally neglected; there was hardly any longer a Romanvessel of war; and the vessels, which the subject cities wererequired to build and maintain, were not sufficient, so thatRome was not only absolutely unable to carry on a navalwar, but was not even in a position to check the tradeof piracy. In Rome itself a number of the most neces­sary improvements were left untouched, and the river-build­ings in particular were singularly neglected. The capitalstill possessed no other bridge over the Tiber than the pri­mitive wooden gangway, which led over the Tiber islandto the Janiculum; the Tiber was still allowed to lay thestreets every year under water, and to demolish houses andin fact not unfrequently whole districts, without anythingbeing done to strengthen the banks; mighty as was thegrowth of transmarine trade, the roadstead of Ostia—al­ready by nature bad—was allowed to become more and moresanded up. A government, which under the most favour­able circumstances and in an epoch of forty years of peaceabroad and at home neglected such duties, might easily allowtaxes to fall into abeyance and yet obtain an annual surplusof income over expenditure and a considerable reserve; butsuch a financial administration by no means deserves com­mendation for its mere semblance of brilliant results, butrather merits the same censure—in respect of laxity, want ofcentral management, mistaken flattery of the people—asfalls to be brought in every other sphere of political lifeagainst the senatorial government of this epoch. The financial condition of Rome of course assumed a Thefar worse aspect, when the storms of revolution set in. finances mThe new and, even in a mere financial point of view, ex- tioer™v°"