OCR Output MAREOTIS. 273- MARGANA-. merit of keeping well to a great age; and Horace {(hi.i. 37) mentions it aa a favourite beverage of Cleopatra.Mania, from its neighbourhood to Alexandreia, wasso generally known to Roman travellers, that amongtoe latin poets, the words Mareia and Mareotic be­came synonymous with Aegypt and Aegyptian.Thus Martial (Ep. xiv. 209) calls the papyrus,"cortex Marcotica" (comp.id. i-p.iv. 42): and Gra-tius (Cyntgttic. v. 313) designates Aegyptian luxuryas Mareotic: and Ovid {Met. ix. v. 73) employs"srra Mareotica" for Lower Aegypt. [W. B. D.]MAREOTIS or MAREl'A (i Mop&rts or MaptiaXiujh}, Strab. xvii. pp. 789 — 799; Maptia, Steph.B. #. r.; Mareotis Libya, Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Justin,ii \\ the modern Bir/xt-d-Marioiit^aa a con­siderable lake in the north of the Delta, extendingsouth-westward of the Cauopic arm of the Kile, andrunning parallel to the Mediterranean, from which itwas separated by a long and narrow ridge of sand, asfir as the tower of Perseus on the Plinthinetic bay.The extreme western point of the lake was about26 miles distant from Alexandria; and on that sideit closely bordered upon the Libyan desert At itsDurtbern extremity its waters at one time washed thewaiU of Alexandreia on their southern side, and be­fore the foundation of that city Mareutis was termedike Lake above Pharus. In breadth it was rathermore than 150 stadia, or about 22 English miles,and in length nearly 300 stadia, or about 42 Englishmiles. One canal connected the lake with the Ca-Lipic arm of the Kile, and another with the oldharbour of Alexandreia, the PortusEunostus. [Alex-asdreia.] The shores of the Mareotis were plantedwith olives and vineyards ; the papyrus which linedii» banks and those of the eight islets which studdedtfa waters was celebrated for its fine quality; andaround its margin stood the country-houses andgardens of the opulent Alexandrian merchants. Itscreeks and quays were filled with Nile boats, and itsexport and import trade in the age of Strabo sur­passed that of the most flourishing havens of Italy.Under the later Caesars, and after Alexandreia wasoccupied by the Arabs, the canals which fed thelake were neglected, and its depth and compass werematerially reduced. In the 16th century a. i>. its*afcr» had retired about 2 miles from the city walls;yet it still presented an ample sheet of water, andits banks were adorned with thriving date-plantations.Th* Ulce. however, continued to recede and to growfiullawer; and, according to the French travellerfeaiary, who visited this district in 1777, its bed wastW for the most part, a sandy waste. In 1801the EnglUh army in Aegypt, in order to annoy theFrvnch garrison in Alexandria, bored the narrowttihmm which separates the Birket-eUMariout fromtl* Lake of Madtih or A Ixwkir, and rc-adinittedthe wa-wait-r. About 450 square miles were thusftmerted into a salt-marsh. But subsequentlyU+hemet Ali repaired the isthmus, and again divertedtfw sea from the lake. It is now of very unequal**Ifth. At its northern end, near Alexandreia, it isab«it 14 feet deep, at its opposite extremity notowe than 3 or 4. Westward it forms a long and&b!la« lagoon, separated from the sea by a bar of*wj, and running towards Libya nearly as far astj* Twer of the Arabs. The lands surroundingthe accent Mareotis were designated as the MareoticX«e(ICap««T?)j SSuos, Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 8, 34); but*&» vu probably not one of the established Nuines<* Paranoic Aegypt, [W. B. D.] MAKES (Map«»),a tribe on the coast of Pontus,Vol ii. in the neighbourhood of the Mosynoeci. (Uecat.Fragm. 192; Herod, iii. 94.) Their armour, whenserving in tie army of Xerxes, is described byHerodotus (vu. 79) as having consisted of helmetsof wicker-work, leather shields, and javelins. Laterwriters do not mention this tribe. [L. S.] MARESHAH (Mapnao, LXX., Euseb.; Mapiaaa,Joseph.), a city of Judah, ''in the valley," enumeratedwith Keilah and Achzib in Joshua (xv. 44). InMicah (i. 15), where it is again joined with Achzib,the LXX. have substituted Aa\u'y. Lachish, how­ever, is found in the list of Joshua, independent ofMaresha (xv. 39), so it could not be a synonym furMareshah. It was one of the cities fortified byKchoboam against the Philistines and Egyptians(2 Chrun. xi. 8); and there it was that Asa encoun­tered Zerah the Ethiopian, "in the valley of Zepha-thah at Mareshah" (xiv. 9), and gained a signalvictory over him. In the time of Judas Maccabaeusit was occupied by the Idumaeans (2 Maccab. xii.35), but Judas took and destroyed it. (Joseph. Ant.xii. 8. § 6.) Only a few years later it is againreckoned to Idumaea; and Hyrcanus I. took it, andcompelled its inhabitants, In common with the otherIdumaeans, to practice circumcision, and conformto the law, as a condition of remaining in thatcountry (xiii. 9. § 1, 15. § 4). It was one of thecities restored to Arctas king of Arabia by HyrcanusII., as the price of his services (xiv. 1. § 4): soon afterwhich it was rebuilt by Gabinius (5. § 3); shortlyafter sacked and destroyed by the Parthian-* in theirinvasion of the country, in the time of Herod theGreat (xiv. 13. § 9); and probably never recoveredits former importance, as this is the latest historicalnotice. It is placed by Kusebius and St. Jerome2 miles from Kleutheropolis; it was then a ruin.Dr. Robinson conjectures that "Eleutheropolis (atfirst Betogabra) had sprung up after the destructionof Maresha, and had been built with its materials,"and that "the foundations which he discovered onthe south-eastern part of the remarkable tell, southof the place, were remains of Maresha. The spot isadmirably adapted for a fortress; it lies about aRoman mile and a half from the ruins of BeitJeljriii.'n There are no oilier ruins in the vicinity.{Bib. Res. vol. ii. pp. 422, 423.) [G. W.] MAREU'RA or MALTHU'BA {Mapioupa **»j-rpoVoAiS i) Kal MaAOuvpa KaXuvfiitnj, Ptol. vu. 2.§ 24), a place of some importance in the upperpart of the Aurea Chersonesus in India extraGangem. It is not possible now to identify it withany existing place. [V.] MATM3ANA or MA'KGALAE (Mdpyava, Diod.;Mapyavcls, Xeu.; MapyaXai, Strab.; Mdpyaia,Steph. B. s. r.), a town in the Pisatis, in the dis­trict Amphiilolia, was supposed by some to be theHomeric Aepy. (Strab. viii. p. 349.) The Eleianswere obliged to renounce their supremacy over itby the treaty which they made with Sparta in u. c.400 (Xen. Hell. iii. 2. § 30), on which occasionit is called one of the Triphylian towns: as tothis statement, see Lkthini. It is mentioned asone of the towns taken by the Arcadians in theirwar with the Eleians in B. c. 366. (Xen. Iltll. vii.4. § 14; Diod. xv. 77.) Its site is uncertain, butit was probably east of Letrini. Leake places it toofar north, at the junction of the Ladon and thePenclus, which is in all probability the site of theEleian Pylos. (Leake, Vdoponnesinca, p. 219;Boblaye, Recherches,$c. p. 130; Curtius, PcIj/>uh-nc-sos, vol. i. p. 73.)