OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 285 You must not pass the Iberus ; you must not meddlewith the Saguntines ; Saguntum is on our side of theIberus; you must not stir a foot. Is it not enoughthat you take Sicily and Sardinia, provinces whichhave been mine from the earliest times? Will youtake Spain also ? when I shall have retired theneeyou will pass over into Africa. Will pass, did I say ?of the two consuls of the present year they have sentone to Africa, the other to Spain. There is nothingleft to us any where, unless we make good our claimby arms. They may be timid and dastardly, who canlook for refuge behind them, who can fly through safeand quiet roads, and be received into their own terri­tories and their own lands. For your part, necessityobliges you to be brave ; and, since every mean be->tween victory and death is sunk out of reach, youmust resolve to conquer, or should fortune be unfa­vorable, to meet death in battle rather than in flight.If this determination be firmly fixed in'every one ofyour breasts, I affirm again, you are conquerors. Theimmortal gods never gave to man a more invigoratingincentive to conquest.' 45. The courage of the soldiers on 'both sides beinganimated to the contest by these exhortations, the Ro­mans threw a bridge over the Ticinus, and erected afort on it for its security. While they were employedin this work the Carthaginians sent Maharbal, with asquadron of five hundred Numidian horse, to ravagethe lands of the allies of the Roman people. He or­dered him to spare the Gauls as much as possible, andto endeavor, by persuasion, to bring over their chiefsto his side. When the bridge was finished, the Ro­man army marched over into the country of the Insu-brians, and sat down at the distance of five miles fromVictumviae. At this place lay Hannibal's camp, who,perceiving the approach of a battle, hastily recalledMaharbal and the horsemen, and thinking that hecould never apply too many arguments and encourage­ments to inspirit his soldiers, called them to an assem­