OCR Output an. 1064.] «1 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. said they then went their ways, and she fore­told, that if they would follow them directlythey would catch them. But when after along pursuit they could not catch them, theycame back again. And when the womansaw those men were returned, and that therewas no longer any fear of the young menbeing caught by them, she drew them up bythe rope, and bid them go on their journey.Accordingly they used great diligence in theprosecution of that journey, and came toDavid, and informed him accurately of allthe counsels of Absalom. So he commandedthose that were with him to pass over Jordanwhile it was night, and not to delay at all onthat account. But Ahithophel, on the rejection of his ad­vice, got upon his ass and rode away to hisown country, Gilon; and calling his familytogether, he told them distinctly, what advicehe had given Absalom: and since he had notbeen persuaded by it, he should certainlyperish, and this in no long time, and thatDavid would overcome him, and return to hiskingdom again. So he said it was betterthat he should take his own life away withfreedom and magnanimity, than oppose him­self to be punished by David; in oppositionto whom he had acted entirely for Absalom.When he had discoursed thus to them, hewent into the innermost room of his house,and hanged himself.* And this was the death of Ahithophel, whowas self-condemned. And when his relationshad taken him down from the halter, theytook care of his funeral. Now as for Davidhe passed over Jordan, as we have saidalready, and came to Mahanaim, a very fineand strong city; and all the chief men of thecountry received him with great pleasure;both out of the shame they had that he shouldbe forced to flee away from Jerusalem; andout of the respect they bare to him while hewas in his former prosperity. These were * 2 Sam. xvii. 23. t The son of Ainmiel, of Lodebar, Hebrew and Sep-tuagint. J In 2 Sam. xv. 18. we read, that All the Gittites, sixhundred men, which came after him, (viz. David) fromGath, passed on before the king: but who these Gittiteswere, it is hard to determine; because we have no men­tion made of them in any other part of Scripture. Someimagine they were natives of Gath, who, taken with thefame of David's piety, and happy success, came along Barzillai the Gileadite, Siphar the ruleramong the Ammonites, and Machirf theprincipal man of Gilead: these furnished himwith plentiful provisions for himself and hisfollowers, insomuch that they wanted no bedsnor blankets for them, nor loaves of bread,nor wine. Nay, they bought them a greatmany cattle for slaughter; and afforded themwhat furniture .they wanted for their re­freshment when they were weary, and forfood, with plenty of other necessaries. CHAP. X. of Absalom's defeat and death. WHILST David and his adherents werein this situation, Absalom got togethera vast army of Hebrews to oppose his father;and passed therewith over the river Jordan,and sat down not far off Mahanaim, in thecountry of Gilead. He appointed Amasa tobe captain of all his host, instead of Joab hiskinsman. His father was Ithra, and his mo­ther Abigail. Now she and Zeruiah the mo­ther of Joab were David's sisters. But whenDavid had numbered his followers, and foundthem to be about four thousand, he resolvednot to tarry till Absalom attacked him; butset over his men captains of thousands, andcaptains of hundreds, and divided his armyinto three parts; one part he committed toJoab, the next to Abishai, Joah's brother,and the third to Ittai,J David's companionand friend, but one that came from the cityGath. And when he was desirous of fightinghimself among them, his friends would notlet him; and their refusal was founded uponvery wise reasons. "For," said they, " if webe conquered when he is with us, we havelost all hopes of recovering ourselves; but ifwe should be beaten in one part of our army,the other parts may retire to him, and maythereby prepare a greater force; while the voL. I. NOS. 21 & 22. with Ittai, whom the Jews suppose to have been the sonof Achish, king of Gath, and being proselyted to theJewish religion, became a part of David's guard, and at­tended him in his wars. But others rather think, thatthey were men of Jewish extract, but had this additionalname, from their flying unto David, probably under theconduct of Ittai, while he was at Gath, and accompanyinghim ever after, not only in the time of Saul's persecutionof him, but even after his accession to the united kingdomsof Judah and Israel. Patrick's Commentary. B. 3B -