OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE: 5:3 mysterious doctrines which were already diffused among the people,insensibly attracted the curiosity of <their sovereigns. When the em- a. d. us.press Mammæa passed through Antiooh, she expressed a desire ofconversing with the celebrated OrigEn, the fame of whose piety andlearning was spread over the East. Origen obeyed so flattering aninvitation, and though lie could not expect to succeed in the con­version of an artful and ambitious woman, she listened with pleasureto his eloquent exhortations, and honourably dismissed him to hisretirement in Palestine "+. The sentiments of Mammæa were adoptedby her son Alexander, and the philosophic devotion of that emperorwas marked by a singular but injudicious regard for the Christianreligion. In his domestic chapel he placed the statues of Abraham,of Orpheus, Apollonius, and of Christ, as of the most respectablesoges who had instructed mankind in the various modes of addres­sing their homage to the supreme and universal deity "s. A purerfaith, as well as worship, was openly professed and practised amonghis household. Bishops, perhaps for the first time, were seen atcourt; and, after the death of Alexander, when the inhuman Maxi- A nmin discharged his fury on the favourites and servants of his un­fortunate benefactor, a great number of Christians, of every rankand of both sexes, were involved in the promiscuous mastacre, which,,r account, has improperly received the name of Persccu- the cruel disposition of Maximin, the effects of . . r Of Maximin,. his resentment against the Christians were of a very local and tem- Philip, and f . # Decius. porary nature, arid the piou6 Origen, who had been proscribed as &devoted victim, was still reserved to convey the truths of the Gospelto the ear Of monarchs4'7. He addressed several edifying letters a.D. 344^to the emperor Philip, to his wife, and to his mother; and as soonas that prince, who was born in the neighbourhood of Palestine,had usurped the imperial sceptre, the Christians acquired a friendand a protector. The public and evea partial favour of Philip to- 5. wards tion"6.