OCR Output s94 THE DECLINE AND FALL His victory The event surpassed his own expectations and those of the world. over ,'ie 11* • Gothi. By the most signal victories he delivered the empire from this bar­baric host, and was distinguished by posterity under the gloriousappellation of the Gothic Claudius. The imperfect historians of anirregular war do not enable us to describe the order and circum­stances of his exploits; but, if we could be indulged in the allu­sion* we might distribute into three acts this memorable tragedy.I. The decisive battle was fought near Naissus, a city of Dardania.The legions at first gave way, oppressed by numbers, and dismayedby misfortunes. Their ruin was inevitable, had not the abilitiesof their emperor prepared a seasonable relief. A large detachmentrising out of the secret and difficult passes of the mountains, which, byhis order they had occupied, suddenly assailed the rear of the victo­rious Goths. The favourable instant was improved by the activityof Claudius. He revived the courage of his troops, restored theirranks, and pressed the barbarians on every side. Fifty thousand menare reported to have been flain in the battle of Naissus. Severallarge bodies of barbarians, covering their retreat with a moveablefortification of waggons, retired, or rather escaped, from the fieldof flaughter. II. We may presume that some insurmountable dif­ficulty, the fatigue, perhaps, or the disobedience of the conquerors,prevented Claudius from completing in one day the destruction ofthe Goths. The war was diffused over the provinces of Mæfia,Thrace, and Macedonia, and its operations drawn out into a varietyof marches, surprises, and tumultuary engagements, as well by seaas by land. When the Romans suffered any loss, it was commonlyoccasioned by their own cowardice or rashness; but the superiortalents of the emperor, his perfect knowledge of the country, and hisjudicious choice of measures and officers, assured on most occasionsthe success of his arms. The immense booty, the fruit of so manyvictories, consisted for the greater part of cattle and flaves. A selectbody of the Gothic youth was ^received among the imperial troops; the