OCR Output 514 THE HISTORY BOOK fons, f0 much more defervingof commiferation than. ^' _j any others who were ever befieged; as by the fiegey.U. 165. which they fuftained they were held excluded fromB. C. 387. ti^i,. native cjty, whilft they faw every thing whichthey held dear in the power of their enemy. Norwas the night, which fucceeded liich a fhockingday, attended with more tranquillity. The morningafter this reftlefs night rofe with an afpecT: equallydifmal; nor did any portion of their time relievetherri, from the fight of a conftant fuccefiionof newdifafters. Loaded and overwhelmed with fuch amultiplicity of evils, they notwithftanding remittednought of their firmnefs of refolution; determined,though they mould fee every thing in flames, and le­velled with the duft, to defend by their bravery thehill which they occupied, fmall and ill provided as itwas, yet being the only refuge of their liberry. And asthe fame events now recurred every day, they be­came lb habituated, as it were, to difafters, that, ab-ftra&ing their thoughts from all feeling of their cir-cumftances, they regarded their arms, and thefwords in their hands, as now their only hopes. XLIII. ON the other fide, the Gauls,.havingfor feveral days only waged an ineffectual war againftthe buildings, when they perceived that among thefires and ruins of the city nothing now remainedbut a band of armed enemies, who were neither ter­rified in the leaft by fo many difafters, nor likely tocondefccnd to treat of a capitulation, unlefs forcewere applied, reiolved to have recourfe to extremi­ties, and make an alTault on the citadel. On a fig-nal given, ut the h'rft light, their whole multitude wasjTiarfhalled in the Forum, from whence, after raif*ing the fhout, and forming a teftudo *, they advan­ced to the attack. The Romans in their defence did • Forming therafelvec into a com part lirtily, with tlieir (hieUU joinedtogether, and held over their kcatU to piotcct them from the miflileWUIJHUIS of the enemy. - .i .' nothing