OCR Output 306 REVOLT OF THE GERMANS. [B. VII. met him at first related with what good humor he receivedevery one that came to him, then it was that the whole multi­tude that had remained in the city, with their wives and chil­dren, came into the road, and waited for him there; and forthose whom he passed by, they made all sorts of acclamationson account of the joy they had to see him, and the pleasant­ness of his countenance, and styled him their benefactor andsavior, and the only person who was worthy to be ruler ofthe city of Rome. And now the city was like a temple, fullof garlands and sweet odors; nor was it easy for him tocome to the royal palace, for the multitude of people thatstood about him; where yet at last he performed his sacrificesof thanksgiving to his household gods, for his safe return tothe city. The multitude did also betake themselves to feast­ing; which feasts and drink offerings they celebrated bytheir tribes, and their families, and their neighborhoods, andstill prayed God to grant that Vespasian, his sons, and alltheir posterity might continue in the Roman government fora very long time, and that his dominion might be preservedfrom all opposition. And this was the manner in whichRome so joyfully received Vespasian, and thence grew im­mediately into a state of great prosperity. 2. But before this time, and while Vespasian was aboutAlexandria, and Titus was lying at the siege of Jerusalem,a great multitude of the Germans were in commotion, andtended to rebellion ; and as the Gauls in their neighborhoodjoined with them, they conspired together, and had therebygreat hopes of success, and that they should free themselvesfrom the dominion of the Romans. The motives that in­duced the Germans to this attempt for a revolt, and for be­ginning the war, were these. — In the first place, the nature[of the people,] which was destitute of just reasonings, andready to throw themselves rashly into danger upon smallhopes: in the next place, the hatred they bore to those thatwere their governors, while their nation had never been con­scious of subjection to any but to the Romans, and that bycompulsion only. Besides these motives, it was the oppor­tunity that now offered itself which above all the rest pre­