OCR Output CHAP. L. 283 They applauded his commanding presence, his majesticaspect, his piercing eye, his gracious smile, his flowingbeard, his countenance that painted every sensation ofthe soul, and his gestures that enforced each expressionof the tongue. In the familiar offices of life he scru­pulously adhered to the grave and ceremonious polite­ness of his country: his respectful attention to the richand powerful was dignified by his condescension andaffability to the poorest citizens of Mecca: the frank­ness of his manner concealed the artifice of his views:and the habits of courtesy were imputed to personalfriendship or universal benevolence. His memory wascapacious and retentive, his wit easy and social, hisimagination sublime, his judgment clear, rapid, anddecisive. He possessed the courage both of thoughtand action; and, although his designs might graduallyexpand with his success, the first idea which he enter­tained of his divine mission bears the stamp of an ori­ginal and superior genius.. The son of Abdallah waseducated in the bosom of the noblest race, in the use ofthe purestdialectof Arabia; and the fluency of his speechwas corrected and enhanced by the practice of discreetand seasonable silence. With these powers of eloquence,Mahomet was an illiterate barbarian: his youth hadnever been instructed in the arts of reading and writ­ing;* the common ignorance exempted him from shameor reproach, but he was reduced to a narrow circle ofexistence, and deprived of those faithful mirrors, which \ * Those who believe that Mahomet could read or write, are incapable of readingwhat is written, with another pen, in the Surata, or chapters of the Koran, 7. 29.96. These texts, and the tradition of the Sonna, are admitted without doubt byAbulfeda, (in Vit. c. 7.) Gagnier, ("Not. ad Abulfed. p. 15.) Pocock, (Specimen,p. 151.) Reland, (de Religione Mohammedica, p. 236.) and Sale. (PreliminaryDiscourse, p. 42.) Mr. White, almost alone, denies the ignorance, to accuse theimposture of the prophet. His arguments are far from satisfactory. Two shorttrading journeys to the fairs of Syria, were surely not sufficient to infuse a scienceso rare among the citizens of Mecca: it was not in the cool deliberate act of atreaty that Mahomet would have dropped the mask; nor can any conclusion bedrawn from the words of disease and deliriurn. The lettered youth, before heaspired to the prophetic character, must have often exercised, in private life, thearts of reading and writing; and his first converts of his own family, would havebeen the first to detect and uphraid his scandalous hypocrisy. (White's Sermons,p.203, 204. Notes, p. 36—38.)