OCR Output 892 SAMXIUM.SAMNIUM. the tract of country from the Silarus to the Sarnus,which was subsequently occupied by the PioentinL(Scylax, p. 3. § 11; Niebuhr, vol i' p. 94.) Theycertainly were still in possession of this district inthe Second Samnite War; and it is probable that itwas not till the close of their long straggles withRome that it, was wrested from them, when the Ko-mans transplanted thither a colony of Picen tinea,and thus finally cut off the Samnites from the sea.On the aide of Apulia the progress of the Samniteswas less definite: and it does not appear that theyestablished themselves in the permanent possessionof any part of that country, though they were cer­tainly pressing hard upon its frontier cities; andit was probably the sense of this and the fear ofthe Sainnite arms that induced the Apulinns earlyto court the alliance of Koine. [Apvma.] The Samnite nation, when it first appears inRoman history, seems to have consisted of four dif­ferent tribes or cantons. Of these the I'kntki andthe HlBPUfl were much the mast powerful; so muchs<i indeed that it is ditticult to understand how suchpetty tribes its the Cabackm and Caldini couldrank on terms of equality with them. The FBKV-tani are frequently considered as forming a fifthcanton; but though that people was certainly ofSainnite race, and must have been regarded byScylax as forming an integral part of the Samnitenation, as he describes the Samnites as occupying aconsiderable part of the coast of the Adriatic (Peripi.p. 5. § 15), they seem to have already ceased to form apart of their political body at the time when theyfirst came into contact with Koine. [Fkkntani.]We have no account of the nature and character ofthe political constitution that bound together thesedifferent tribes. It seems to have been a merefederal league, the bonds of which were drawn closertogether in time of war, when a supreme general orcommander-in-chief was chosen to preside over theforces of the whole confederacy, with the title ofEm brat ur, the Sabellian form corresponding to theLatin Iinperator. (Liv. ix. 1; Niebuhr, vol. i. p.107.) But we find no mention, even on occasionsof the greatest emergency, of any regular council ordeliberative assembly to direct the policy of thenation; and the story told by Livy of the manner inwhich Herennius Pontius was consulted in regardtn the fate of the Koman army at the Caudine Forksseems to negative the supposition that any suchbody could have existed. (Liv. ix. 3; see alsoviii. 39.) The first mention of the Samnites in Komanliistory, is in B. c. 354, when we are told that theyconcluded a treaty of alliance with the republic, theprogress of whose arms was already beginning toattract their attention (Liv. vii. 19; Diod. xvi. 45).It is probable that the Sanmites, who were alreadymasters of Aesernia and the uptter valley of theVulturnus, were at this time pushing forward theirarms down the course of that valley, and across themountain country from thence to the Liris, thenoccupied by the Volscians, Auruncans, and othertribes, of Ausunian or Oscan origin. It was not lougbefore these onward movements brought them intocollision with the Romans, notwithstanding theirrecent alliance. Among the minor tribes in thispart of Italy were the Sidicini, who, though situatedon the very borders of Campania, had hitherto pre­served their independence, and were not includedin the Campanian people [Sidicini]. This pettypeople having been assailed by the Samnites, upon what cause or pretext we know Bat, tad fb&sf.themselves unable to cope with such powerfalneighbours, invoked the assistance at theCampwN.The latter, notwithstanding their coonecuos wnathe Samnites, readily espoused the cao* d theSidicini, but it was only to bring the daogv spottheir own heads: for the Samnites now turoed thftfarms against the Campanians, and after cctjrpyc^with a strong force the ridge of Sl<*int litata.which immediately overlooks Capua, they desEiaJatinto the plain, defeated the Campan-ara is tfntcbeibattle at the very gates of Capua, and shot thaiup within the walls of the city (Lit. vii. 29). bthis extremity the Campanians in their turn tp^asfor assistance to Rome, and the senate, after sawhesitation on account of their recent alliawe wisthe Samnites, granted it 30, 31). Thus bqaithe First Samnite War (b. c. 343), the eommaw*.ment of that long struggle which was eventually Hdecide whether the supremacy of Italy was towith the liomans or the Samnites. This first contest was, however, of short darshas.In the first campaign the two consuls M- VaWriaiCoitus and A. Cornelius Cosaus gamed two deoa»victories; the one at the fixit of M> unt Gauroatfctother near Saticula. The first of these, as Nawaatobserves (vol. iii. p. 119), was r*f especial iinprutit was the first trial of arms between the tworinations, and might be taken as a sort of <mmthe ultimate issue of the contest. A third hinear Suessula, where the remains of the army Ihad bet-n defeated at Mount Gaurna, after tavbeen reinforced, again attacked Valerias, tenuis!in an equally decisive victory of the R>maa»:both consuls triumphed over the Samnite? (Li*.32—38; FtuL Capit.). The next year the ltary operations of the liomans were checked fcf <mutiny of their own army, of which the cowat Koine took advantage; and the city was dinby dissensions. These causes, as well as ifescreasing disaffection of the Latins, naturallythe Romans to peace, and a treaty waswith the Samnites in the following year. v. CThe account which represents that people isliated and suing for peace, is sufficientlythe fact that the Romans abandoned the St&cssitheir fate, and left the Samnites free to carrytheir aggressive designs against that uafipeople (Liv. viii. 1, 2). The peace which terminated the First SWar renewed the alliance previously exi-tfinythe Romans and the Samnites. In amseqthis the latter took part in the great war wttfcLatins and Campanians, which almost iifollowed, not as the enemies, but as the allam,Koine; anil the Roman armies were tho* ecabWreach Campania by the circuitous route thrauffctcountry of the Marsi and I'eligni, and dewa 1valley of the Vulturnus (Liv. viii. 6). Daring 1fifteen years that followed, down to the renewalthe contest between Kome and Samnium. the cosof events was almost uniformly favourable to'former power. The successful terminatiaa rf'war with the Latins and Campaniana, and the esolidation of the Roman power in both lho*e ctmrflhad added greatly to the strength of the repotiand the latter had followed up this adnttic*the reduction of several of the smaller issWfsarftribes in the same neighbourhood—the AsmSidicini, and the IVivernates, who appear m 1occasion as independent of, and separate fnm M