OCR Output ORCHOMENUS. ORCHOMENUS. 489 i, ud in the lowest part of the town the en-coed space u nearly square. It is defended on tliek-*e*t side by a wall, which crossed the slope of theal» snag the crest of a ledge of rock, which theretarn a dimko in the slope. In this wall, whichj it ikree-frurths of the distance from the castle to'la aoeasteTT, there are some foundations of ther*t# *b»en funned the lower entrance into the city;ud n the collide are many large masses of wroughtfcaw, the remain*, apparently, of some temple oriias pabhe building. The southern wall of theett, which follows a line parallel to the Cephissus,t r-ireabJe, with scarcely any intermission, through • aiUxxe of three-quarters of a mile; and in manyuxt BFrcral courses of masonry are still extant,T«t wall derires its flank defence from square towers,m*fd for the roost part at long intervals, with anOf-ncthate abort flank or break, in the line of wall. • s ire places the masonry is of a very early age,at a central it is of the third kind, or almost The former belongs to the earlier Orcho-f to the later city, and dates from theeither by Philip or the Pho-• Towards the middle of the northern side the■ ts roost precipitous, and here thetraceable. The circumference of thetboot 2 miles. The citadel occupies at 40 yards in diameter, and seems to haveo; but three sides only re-risible on the easternFife* nek. At the northern angle are theT a tower, and parallel to the north-westerni it a ditch cut in the rock, beyi traces of an outwork. The hill is com-| iba neighbouring part of Mount Acon-as to have been ofto ancient warfare. The access to thel titv was first by an oblique flight oft wide, and cat oat of the rock; andI direct flight of 60 steps of the same kind." The monuments, which Pausanias noticed atOrchomenus, were temples of Dionysus and theCharites,—of which the latter was a very ancientbuilding,—a fountain, to which there was a de­scent, the treasury of Minyns, tombs of Minyas andHesiod, and a brazen figure bound by a chain of ironto a rock, which was said to be the ghost of Actaeon.Seven stadia from' the town, at the sources of theriver Melas, was a temple of Hercules. The Trea­sury of Atreus was a circular building rising to asummit not very pointed, but terminating in a stone,which was said to hold together the entire building.(Paus. ix. 38.) Pausanias expresses his admira­tion of this building, and says there was nothingmore wonderful cither in Greece or in any othercountry. The remains of the treasury still exist atthe eastern extremity of the hill towards the lake, infront of the monastery. It was a building similar tothe Treasury of Atreus at Mycenae. It was acircular vault of massive masonry embedded in thehill, with an arched roof, sunnounted probably by atumulus. The whole of the stone-work of the vaulthas now disappeared, but its form is vouched for bythe circular cavity of the ground and by the descrip­tion of Pausanias. It had a side-door of entrance,which is still entire, though completely embedded inearth up to the base of the architrave. There wereprobably two great slabs in the architrave, as atMycenae, though one only is left, which is of whitemarble, and of which the size, according to Leake,is 16 feet in its greatest length, 8 in its greatestbreadth, and 3 feet ~1\ inches in thickness. Thediameter of the vault seems to have been about 41feet. Kespecting the origin and destination of this,and other buildings of the same class, some remarksare made under Mycenae. [Vol. II. p. 383.] Straboremarks (ix. p. 416) that the Orchomenus of histime was supposed to stand on a different site fromthe more ancient city, the inundations of the lakehaving forced the inhabitants to retire from the plaintowards Mt. Acontium, And Leake observes, thatthis seems to accord with the position of the treasuryon the outside of the existing walls, since it canhardly have been placed there originally. The acro­polis, however, must always have stood upon thehill; but it is probable, that the city in the heightof its power extended to the Cephissus. COIN OF ORCHOMENUS. The monastery of Skripu, which stands aboutmidway between the treasury and the river, proba­bly occupies the site of the temple of the Charites;for the pedestal of a tripod dedicated to the Charites,which is now in the church, was found in an ex­cavation made upon the spot. Some very ancientinscriptions, of which two are now in the BritishMuseum, were found in the church of the monastery.They are in the Orchomenian-Aeolic dialect, iuwhich the digamma was used. (K. 0. Miiller,Orchomenos und die Alinyer, Breslau, 1844, 2nd ed.;Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. i. p. 227, seq.; Leake,Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 144, seq.; Mure, Tour