OCR Output MORGANTIA. .•571 MORIDUNUM. and it was in great part by the assistance of a body•f mercenary troops from Morgantia and othertowns of the interior, that that tyrant succeeded inestablishing his despotic power at Syracuse, n. c317. (Justin, xxii. 2; Diod. xix. 6.) Morgantiais repeatedly mentioned during the Second PunicWar. During the siege of Syracuse by Marcellusit was occupied by a Roman garrison, and greatmagazines of corn collected there; but the placewas betrayed by the inhabitants to the Carthaginiangeneral Uimilco, and was for some time occupied bythe Syracnsan leader Hippocrates, who from thencewatched the proceedings of the siege. (Liv. xxiv.36, 39.) It was ultimately recovered by the Romangeneral, but revolted again after the departure ofMarcellus from Sicily, B. c. 211; and being retakenby the praetor M. Cornelius, both the town and itsterritory were assigned to a body of Spanish merce-■aries, who had deserted to the Romans underMrricns. (Id. xxvi. 21.) Morgantia appears to have still continued to liea considerable town under the Roman dominion. Inthe great Servile insurrection of B. c. 102 it wasbesieged by the leaders of the insurgents, Tryphonand Athenian; but being a strong place and wellfortified, offered a vigorous resistance; and it is notclear whether it ultimately fell into their hands or»«. (Mod. xxxvi. 4, 7. Exc. Phot. pp. 533, 534.)Cicero repeatedly mentions its territory as one fertilein com and well cultivated, though it suffered se­verely from the exactions of Verres. (Cic. Verr.iii. 1$. 43.) It was therefore in his time still amunicipal town, and we find it again mentioned assuch by Pliny (iii. 8. s. 14); so that it must be anerror on the part of Strabo, that he speaks of Mor-ganiiom as a city that no longer existed. (Strab.vi p. 270.) It may, however, very probably havebeen in a slate of great decay, as the notice of Plinyis the only subsequent mention of its name, andfrom this time all trace of it is lost The position of Morgantia is a subject of greatmneertainty, and it is impossible to reconcile theconflicting statements of ancient writers. Mostauthorities, however, concur in associating it withthe Siculuui towns of the interior, that border onthe valleys of the Symaethus and its tributaries,Meaaenuui, Agyrium, Assorus, &c. (Diod. xi. 78,xiv. 78; Cic I'err. /. c; SI. Ital. xiv. 265); anda more precise testimony to the same effect is foundin the statement that the Carthaginian generalMago encamped t» the territory of Agyrium, bytit rivtr Chrysnt, os tie road leading to Afor-gaxtia. (Diod. xir. 95.) The account of its siegeduring the Servile War also indicates it as a place ofnatuml strength, built on a lofty hill. (Diod. xxxvi.L e.) Hence it is very strange that Livy in onepassage speaks of the Roman fleet as lying at Mor-gaatia, as if it were a place on the sea-coast ; astatement wholly at variance with all otlicr accounts COIS OF MORGANTIA. of its position, and in which there must probably besome mistake. (Liv. xxiv. 27.) On the whole wemay safely place Morgantia somewhere on the bor­ders of the fertile tract of plain that extends fromCatania inland along the Sinteto and its tributaries;and probably on the hills between the Dittaino andthe Gurna Loiiga, two of the principal of those tribu­taries; but any attempt at a nearer determinationmust be purely conjectural. There exist coins of Morgantia, which have thename of the city at full, MOPrANTlNflN; this isunfortunately effaced on the one figured in the pre­ceding column. [E. H. B.] MORGE'TES (MipyriTts), an ancient people ofsouthern Italy, who had disappeared before theperiod of authentic history, but are noticed by severalancient writers among the earliest inhabitants ofthat part of the peninsula, in connection with theOenotrians, Itali, and Siculi. Antiochus of Syracuse(ap.Diuw/s. i. 12) represented the Sieuli, Morgetesand Itulietes as all three of Oenotrian race; andderived their names, according to the favouriteGreek custom, from three successive rulers of theOenotrians, of whom Italus was the first, Morgesthe second, and Siculua the third. This lastmonarch broke up the nation into two, separatingthe Siculi from their parent stock; and it wouldseem that the Morgetes followed the fortunes of theyounger branch; for Strabo, who also cites An­tiochus as his authority, tells us that the Siculi andMorgetes at first inhabited the extreme southernpeninsula of Italy, until they were expelled fromthence by the Oenotrians, when they crossed overinto Sicily. (Strab. vi. p. 257.) The geographeralso regards the name of Morgantium in Sicily asan evidence of the existence of the Morgetes in thatisland (Ibid. pp. 257. 270); but no other writernotices them there, and it is certain that in thetime of Thucydides their name must have beeneffectually merged in that of the Siculi. In theEtymologicon Magnum, indeed, Morges is termed aking of Sicily: but it seems clear tliat a king ofthe Siculi is intended; for the fable there related,which calls Siris a daughter of Morges, evidentlyrefers to Italy alone. (Etym. M. v. iipts.) Allthat we can attempt to deduce as historical fromthe legends above cited, is that there appears tohave existed in the S. of Italy, at the time whenthe Greek colonists first became acquainted with it,a people or tribe bearing the name of Morgetes,whom they regarded as of kindred race with theChones and other tribes, whom they included underthe more general appellation of the Oenotrians.[Oknotuia.] Their particular place of abodecannot be fixed with certainty; but Strabo seemsto place them in the southern peninsula of Brut-tiuni, adjoining Rhegium and Locri. (Strab. vi.p. 257.) [E.H. B.] MORGINNUM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placedby tho Table on the road from Vienna (Vienne)to Alpis Cottia, and 14 M. P. short of Cularo(Grenoble). The place is Moirans. [G. L.] MORl'AH. [Jkhl-salkm.] MOR1CAMBA (Moputa>s,>), Ptol. ii. 3. § 3), anestuary of Britain, Morccambe Bay, on the coast ofLancashire. [C. R. S.] MORIDU'NUM, in Britain, placed both by theAntonine Itin. and Geogr. l.'.iv. near Lsca of theDumnonii (Exeter): it was one of the stationstermed majutiones and mutationes, probably thelatter : its site has by no means been agreed upon by u B 2