OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 45 disease was ascribed to the miraculous succour of theholy martyrs Cosmas and Damian. The capital andthe provinces of the east were decorated with the monu­ments of his religion;™ and, though the far greater partof these'costly structures maybe attributed to his taste orostentation, the zeal of the royal architect was probablyquickened by a genuine sense of love and gratitude to­wards his invisible benefactors. Among the titles ofimperial greatness, the name of Pious was most pleasingto his ear; to promote the temporal and spiritual interestsof the church, was the serious business of his life; andthe duty of father of his country was often sacrificed tothat of defender of the faith. The controversies of thetimes were congenial to his temper and understanding;and the theological professors must inwardly deride thediligence of a stranger, who cultivated their art and neg­lected his own. What can ye fear (said a bold con­spirator to his associates) from your bigoted tyrant;Sleepless and unarmed he sits whole nights in his closet,debating with reverend gray-beards, and turning overthe pages of ecclesiastical volumes." The fruits of theselucubrations were displayed in many a conference, whereJustinian might shine as the loudest and most subtle ofthe disputants; inmany a sermon, which, underthe nameof edicts and epistles, proclaimed to the empire the the­ology of their master. While the barbarians invadedthe provinces, while the victorius legions marched underthe banners of Belisarius and Narses, the successor ofTrajan, unknown to the camp, was content to vanquishat the head of a synod. Had he invited to these synodsa disinterested and rational spectator, Justinian mighthave learned that religious controversy is the a/springof arrogance and folly; that true piety is most laudably •, Procop. de Edificiis, lib. 1. c. 6.7, &c. passirn. ""0; )l xaftlTOI a^wtoXTOc 1C all iwi XJs^lt TIVOC =i»pl nuran ipau tut •'<& Iff""-.;::'.:l: arytva mountou Ta Xfia-rwTOv Xeyia cwwtr.i ty?n. Procop. dc Bell. Goth.lib. 3. c. St. In the life of St. Eutychms, (apucl Aleman. ad Procop. Arcan. c. 18.)the same character i» given with a design to praise Justinian.