OCR Output roxTus. POPULONIUM. 659 the dominion of Persia (Herod, iii. 94, vii.X *nl • l- governed by hereditary satrapslo the royal family of Tenia. In the timethe tribes of Pontus governed by nativeto have still enjoyed a high degree of•KK,,r. But in b.c. 363, in the reign of Ar-mmem II-, Ariobartaiies subdued several of thor*-«ts«o tribe*, and thereby laid the foundation of an» ^|»r»l< nt kingdom in those parts. (L)iod. xv.►u.) He was succeeded in B.C. 337 by Mithri-b>*»» I'-, who reigned till b. c. 302, and who, by*•.fatly availing himself of the circumstances of■e timea daring the straggles ainong the successors'Aleundcr, considerably enlarged his kingdom,uftrr an toe throne was occupied by MithridatesII, fraan ft. c 302 to 266; Ariobarzanes III., from<- 266 probably till 240. The chronology of this:-i tke tallowing kings, Mithridates IV., Pharnu-■ L, and Mithridates V, U very uncertain. Under'-.-iiiatea VI., from o. c. 120 to 63, the kingdomPoatue attained the height of its extent andbat hat <rm with the Itomans led to its sub-tuhm mod dismemberment. Pompey, the con-• r of llitlirhi.>■• in b. c. 65 annexd the■■■■-a part of Pontus as far as Ischicopolis andt fn«uarr» of Cappadocia to Bithvnia (Dion Cass,a. 42 j Strab. xii. pp. 541, 543'; Veil. Pat. ii. • Lrr. Kfnt. 1U2X and gave away the remaiu-: parts to aucne ot the chiefs or princes in the ad-i**z amxoxriea. A portion of the country betweci:i Ira* and Italy* was given to the Galatian Deio-am, which Bras henceforth called Pontns Galaticusrah mii. p. 5-4 7; Dion Cass. xli. 63, xlii. 45;£. v. 6- §§ 3, 9 ) The Colchians and otherm in the aotith-east of the Kuxine received ar nf their own in the person of Aristarchus.f/m. Midkrid. 114; F.utrop. vi. 14.) Phar-n IL. the treacherous son of Mithridates, re-i i lbe Crimea an<i some adjoining districts as anr_»-.«ient kragdom under the name of Bosporusfuam, Mitkrid. I lO, <Vc.); and the central part, • the trie to Pttamacia, was subsequently givenK \ tee . to Pcdernon, the son of Phamaces,»*» beta iifii Th designated by the name of ran- ■■„* iru* ( I'ud. v. 6. §§4, 10; Eatrop. vii.jkarrt. Vict- t*e Caes. 15), which it retainedrwaria, even when it bad become incorporatedi iV Roman em pi' c. The eastern part, whichImat bees ceded to Polemon, was transferred rythndoris to king Archelaus of Cap••a. aha married her, and was thenceforth railedha Ca^tpadorioa. In 1'ontus Polemoniacus,Mara a-aa aisu-ecded by her son Polemon II.,■ aafad hia kingdom into the hands of thea*r Hero (&uc«. Aer. 18; Eutrop. vii. 14). PoD-*m then made at Koman province, a.d. 63, underaw of Ponlu* I'ofemoniacus, the administrationhah was seaiataTimea combined »ith that of Ga-■ la the new arrangements under Constantine,■■■■lis eraa fin divided into two parts; thet-aeuera one. erhich had home the name ofa* (Waaorna, was called Helenopontus, in ho­of (fee eapanrs mother Helena , and the east- K. Wwlurh I'uotoa Cappodocius was added,r aeawe oaf fosatua Polemoniacus. (,\ ottll.•■ 1: HaerocL p. T02.) Besides these provin-laas a , there also e-xtist a number of names ofar wparate dxatricCa, each as Gazklonitih,udi TansiatcTacA, Sipex*; and in the in-r rmAzcatoxi-rxa. yiMOLMuar., DiAcorK.SK,•"•M*. HuiMoxm*! ZEunus, Xuiue, and MecvLoroLrris. These, as well as the most im­portant towns, Ami-is. Polkmonium, Cotyora,Pharnacia, Cerasus, TraI'KZUS, Apsarus, Ca-bira, Gaziura, Zela, Comana Pontica, Nko- CAESARF.1A, SkBASTIA, ThKMISCYKA, PlIAZEMON, &C are described in separate articles. [L. S.]PONTUS EUXINUS. [EcxiNL-3 Po.ntus.]POPliLI or P0P0I.I, a small place in the westof Pannonia, on the road from Jovia to Aqunviva,south of the river Dravus. (/<. Ilierot. p. 561;Geogr. liav. iv. 19; Tab. Putting.) [I„ S.] POPULO'NIUM or POPULO'NIA (noeAeinov:Eth. Populoniensis: Papilloma), an ancient city ofEtruria, situated on the sea-coast, nearly oppositethe island of Ilva {Elba), and about 5 miles X ofthe modem city of Piombino. It stood on a loftyhill, rUing abruptly from the sea, and forming thenorthern extremity of the detached and almost in­sulated promontory, the southern end of which isoccupied by the modern town of Piombino. Thispromontory (the UowKiiviov txpov of Ptolemy) isseparated from the hills in the interior by a stripof flat marshy ground, about 5 miles in width,which in ancient times was occupied in greatmeasure by lagnnes or paduli; so that its positionis nearly analogous to that of the still more strikingMonte Argenturo. The Maritime Itinerary placesit 30 miles S. of the Vada Volatenana, which isjust about the truth (/tin. Mat-it. p. 501). Strabosays it was the only one of the ancient Etruscancities which was situated on the sea-shore (Strab.v. p. 223), and the remark is repeated by Pliny;thus apparently excluding Cosa as well as Pyrgiand other smaller places from that designation. Itis probable at least that Populonium was the mostconsiderable of the maritime cities of Etruria; butthere are no grounds for regarding it as one of theTwelve Cities of the League, or as ever rivalling inimportance the great cities of the interior. Virgilindeed represents it as one of the Etruscan citieswhich sent forces to the assistance of Aeneas (^en.x. 1 72), a statement that seems to prove his beliefin its antiquity; but other accounts represented itas a colony of Volaterrae, and therefore of com­paratively recent date. Servius tells us that it wasfirst founded by the Corsicans, from whom it wasafterwards wrested by the Volaterrans; and distinctlyrepresents it as of later date than the twelve chiefcities of Etraria. (Serv. ad Am. I. c.) It pro-bahly derived its chief prosperity from its connectionwith the neightwuring ialand of Ilva, the iron pro­duced in the latter being all conveyed to Populonium! to be smelted, and thence exported to other regions. (Strab. /. c; Pseud. Arist. dt Mirab. 95; Varr. up\ Sen. ad Aeu. x. Hi.) Hence, in B. c. 205, whenScipio was fitting out his fleet for Africa, and theEtruscan cities came forward with their veluntarvcontributions, the Populonians unilertcs>k to supplyhim with iron. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) This is the firstoccasion on which the name is mentioned in history;a few vears later (b. c. 202) we are told that thoconsul'Claudius Nero, on his voyage to Sardinia,took refuge with his fleet in the port of Populoniumfrom the violence of a storm. (Id. xxx. 39). No-further meDtion of it occurs in history; but we learnfrom Strabo that it sustained a siege from the forcesof Sulla at the name lime with Volaterrae. and itapnears to have never recovered the blow it theureceived • for in the time of that geographer the cityitself was almost desolate, only the temples and aThe port, however, was still• u u 2