OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. H7 The jealousy of the Byzantine court had not per- chap.mitted Belisarius to achieve the conquest of Italy; XXVI"and his ahrupt departure revived the courage of the Revolt ofGoths *, who respected his genius, his virtue, and a.V.054o.even the laudable motive which had urged the ser­vant of Justinian to deceive and reject them. Theyhad lost their king (an inconsiderable loss), their ca­pital, their treasures, the provinces from Sicily to theAlps, and the military force of two hundred thousandBarbarians, magnificently equipped with horses andarms. Yet all was not lost, as long as Pavia was de­fended by one thousand Goths, inspired by a senseof honour, the love of freedom, and the memory oftheir past greatness. The supreme command wasunanimously offered to the brave Uraias; and it wasin his eyes alone that the disgrace of his uncle Vitigescould appear as a reason of exclusion. His voice in­clined the election in favour of Hildibald, whose per­sonal merit was recommended by the vain hope thathis kinsman Theudes, the Spanish monarch, wouldsupport the common interest of the Gothic nation.The success of his arms in Liguria and Venetiaseemed to justify their choice; but he soon declaredto the world, that he was incapable of forgiving orcommanding his benefactor. The consort of Hildi­bald was deeply wounded by the beauty, the riches,and the pride of the wife of Uraias; and the deathof that virtuous patriot excited the indignation of afree people. A bold assassin executed their sentenceby striking off the head of Hildibald in the midst ofa banquet: the Rugians, a foreign tribe, assumed theprivilege of election; and Totila, the nephew of the * In the second (c. 30) and third book (c. 1—40), Procopius continues thehistory of the Gothic war from the fifth to the fifteenth year of Justinian. As theevents are less interesting than in the former period, he allots only half the space .to double the time. Jornandes and the Chronicle of Marcellinus afford somecollateral hints. Sigonius, Pagi, Muratori, Mascou, and De Buat, are useful,and have been used. L 2