OCR Output 94 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. [B. IV. your minds withal ? Perhaps you wait for the Romans, thatthey may protect our holy places: Are our matters thenbrought to that pass ? and are we come to that degree ofmisery, that our enemies themselves are expected to pity us ? O wretched creatures! will not you rise up, and turn uponthose that strike you ? which you may observe in wild beaststhemselves, that they will avenge themselves on those thatstrike them. Will not you call to mind every one of you thecalamities you yourselves have suffered ? nor lay before youreyes what afflictions you yourselves have undergone? Andwill not such things sharpen your souls to revenge ? Is, there­fore, that most honorable and most natural of our passionsutterly lost, I mean the desire of liberty ? Truly we are inlove with slavery, and in love with those that lord it over us,as if we had received that principle of subjection from ourancestors; yet did they undergo many and great wars forthe sake of liberty; nor were they so far overcome by thepower of the Egyptians or the Modes, but that still they didwhat they thought fit, notwithstanding their commands tothe contrary. And what occasion is there now for a warwith the Romans ? (I meddle not with determining whether itbe an advantageous and profitable war or not:) What pre­tence is there for it ? Is it not that we may enjoy our liberty ?Besides, shall we not bear the lords of the habitable earth tobe lords over us, and yet bear tyrants of our own country ?although I must say that submission to foreigners may beborne, because fortune hath already doomed us to it, whilesubmission to wicked people of our own nation is too unmanly,and brought upon us by our own consent. However, since 1 have had occasion to mention the Romans, I will not con­ceal a thing that, as I aui speaking, comes into my mind, andaffects me considerably; it is this, that though we should betaken by them (God forbid the event should be so,) yet canwe undergo nothing that will be harder to be borne than whatthese men have already brought upon us. How then can weavoid shedding of tears, when wo see the Roman donationsin our temple, while we withal see those of our own natioDtaking our own spoils and plundering our glorious metropolis.