OCR Output CHAP. 2. . ROMAN HISTORY. 10? number of that order, which had suffered greatly fromthe king's butcheries, he drafted the principal of theEquestrian order, to make the number of the fathersthree hundred. Hence, it is said, arose the distinctionef fathers and conscript fathers; when they were calledto the senate, they who were added to the list to makeup the new senate, being called conscript. It is impos­sible to conceive how much this measure contributed tothe unanimity, and mutual friendship of senate and peo­ple. CHAP. II. Constrains Tarquinius Collatinus, on suspicion of an attach­ment to the Tarquins, to resign the consulship, and leaveRome. IMMEDIATELY after these regulations they turnedtheir attention to matters of religion, and as some part ofpublic worship had belonged to the regal function, thatthe want of kings might not be felt in this respect, theycreated a magistrate for the purpose, and gave him thetitle of king of sacred things. This office they made sub­ordinate to the pontificate, that the specious title mightno way obstruct their liberty, which had now becometheir principal concern: and I am not certain, but theirzeal in securing it, even in matters of very little moment,carried them too far. For the very name of the otherconsul, to whose conduct they could have no objectionbesides, became odious to the state. They reflected,"That habit had made it constititutional in the Tarquins"to affect sovereign power. That this had originated"in Priscus, whom Servius Tullius had indeed succeed-"ed, but what then? During his whole reign, was not"Tarquin the proud claiming an exclusive right, though"he saw another in possession, and at last, by proceed-"ings the most villainous and violent, did he not seizeon the supreme power, as the hereditary domain of hisfamily? Tarquin the proud is banished, it is true; butis not the supreme authority vested in Tarquin of Col-Iatia? The Tarquins cannot exist in a private station—it is morally impossible ;—there is a harshness :i»the very name,—it will never chime with liberty."