OCR Output C. V.] IDE TEMPLE. 179 those porticoes curious pillars; yet were all the courts thatwere exposed to the air every where green. There were,moreover, several groves of trees, and long walks throughthem, with deep canals and cisterns that in several parts werefilled with brazen statues, through which the water ran out.There were withal many dove-courts,1 of tame pigeons aboutthe canals. But, indeed, it is not possible to give a completedescription of these palaces; and the very remembrance ofthem is a torment to one, as putting one in mind what vastlyrich buildings that fire which was kindled by the robbers hathconsumed : for these were not burnt by the Romans, but bythese internal plotters, as we have already related, in the be­ginning of their rebellion. That fire began at the tower ofAntonia, and went on to the palaces, and consumed the upperparts of the three towers themselves. CHAPTER V. A DESCRIPTION OF THE TEMPLE. § 1. Now this temple, as I have already said, was builtupon a strong hill. At first the plain at the top was hardlysufficient for the holy house and the altar; for the groundabout it was very uneven, and like a precipice; but when kingSolomon, who was the person that built the temple, had builta wall to it, on its cast side, there was then added one cloisterfounded on a bank cast up for it, and on the other parts theholy house stood naked. But in future ages the people2 added 1 These dove-courts in Josephus, built by Herod the Great, are, in theopinion of Reland, the very same that are mentioned by the Talmudists, andnamed by them 1Irrod's dove-courts. Nor is there any reason to supposeotherwise, since in both accounts they were expressly tamo pigeons whichwere kept in them. * See the description of the temples hereto belonging;, chap. xv. But note,that what Josephus here says of the original scantiness of this mount Moriah,that it was quite too little for the temple, and that at first it held only one",loister, or court of Solomon's building, and that the foundations were forcedto be added long afterwards by degrees, to render it capable of the cloisters