OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. loved, the famous Theodora," whose strange elevationcannot be applauded as the triumph of female virtue.Under the reign of Anastasius, the care of the wildbeasts maintained by the green faction of Constanti­nople, was intrusted to Acacius, a native of the isle ofCypress, who, from his employment, was surnamed themaster of the bears. This honourable office was givenafter his death to another candidate, notwithstanding thediligence of his widow, who had already provided a hus­band and a successor. Acacius had left three daughters,Comito," Theodora, and Anastasia, the eldest of whomdid not then exceed the age of seven years. On a so­lemn festival, these helpless orphans were sent by theirdistressed and indignant mother, in the garb of suppli­ants, into the midst of the theatre: the green factionreceived them with contempt, the blues with compassion;and this difference, which sunk deep into the mind ofTheodora, was felt long afterward in the administrationof the empire. As they improved in age and beauty, tl>ethree sisters were successively devoted to the public andprivate pleasures of the Byzantine people; and Theo­dora, after following Comito on the stage, in the dress ofa slave, with a stool on her head, was at length permittedto exercise her independent talents. She neither danced,nor sung, nor played on the flute; her skill was con-*fined to the pantomime arts; she excelled in buffooncharacters, and as often as the comedian swelled hercheeks, and complained with a ridiculous tone and ges­ture of the blows that were inflicted, the whole theatreof Constantinople resounded with laughter and applause.The beauty of Theodora* was the subject of more flat- "For the life and manners of the empress Theodora, see the Anecdotes; moreespeciatly c. 1—5. 9—17. with the learned notes of Alemannus—a reference towhich, is always implied. * Comito, was afterward married to Sittas duke of Armenia, tho father perhaps, atleast she might be the mother, of the empress Sophia. Two nephews of Theodora,may be the sons of Anastasia. (Aleman. p. 30, 31.) y Her statue was raised at Constantinople, on a porpbyry column. See Procnpius(4e K<Uf. Uh. I. c. 11.) who gives her portrait in the Anecdotes, (c. 10.) AJema"-(p. 47.) produces one from a .Mosaic at Ravenna, loaded with pearls and jewels, andyet handsome. /