OCR Output Air 1020.] 293 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tween these sorts of wood; nor unacquaintedwith the nature of the genuine pine-tree. Now the weight of gold that was broughtthe king was six hundred and sixty-sixtalents; not including what was brought bythe merchants; nor what the toparchs andkings of Arabia gave him in presents; he alsocast two hundred targets of gold, each ofthem weighing six hundred shekels. Healso made three hundred shields, every oneweighing three pounds of gold; and he hadthem carried, and put into that house whichwas called the forest of Lebanon. He alsomade cups of gold, and of precious stones,for the entertainment of his guests; and hadthem adorned in the most curious manner;and he contrived that all his other furnitureof vessels should be of gold; for there wasnothing then to be sold or bought for silver.For the king had many ships which lay uponthe sea at Tarsus; these he commanded tocarry out all sorts of merchandise unto theremotest nations; by the sale of which silverand gold were brought to the king, and agreat quantity of ivory, and Ethiopians andapes; and they finished their voyage, goingand returning, in three years' time. Accordingly there went* a great fame allround the neighbouring countries, which pro­claimed the virtue and wisdom of Solomon;insomuch that all the kings were desirous tosee him; as not giving credit to what was re­ported, on account of its being most incre­dible; they also demonstrated the regardthey had for him, by the presents they madehim. For they sent him vessels of gold andsilver, and purple garments, and many sortsof spices, and horses, and chariots, and as many mules for his carriages as they couldfind proper to please the king's eyes, by theirstrength and beauty. This addition that hemade to those chariots and horses which hehad before from these that were sent him,augmented the number of his chariots byabove four hundred; for he had a thousandbefore;f and augmented the number of hishorses by two thousand; for he had twentythousand before. These horses also were somuch exercised, in order to their making afine appearance, and running swiftly, that noothers could upon the comparison appeareither finer or swifter; but they were at oncethe most beautiful of all others, and theirswiftness was incomparable also. Theirriders were a farther ornament to them,being in the first place young men in themost delightful flower of their age; and emi­nent for their stature, far taller than othermen. They had also very long hair, hangingdown, and were clothed in garments ofTyrian purple. They had also dust of goldevery day sprinkled on their hair; so thattheir heads sparkled with the reflection ofthe sun's beams from the gold. The kinghimself rode upon a chariot in the midst ofthese men, who were still in armour, and hadtheir bows fitted to them. He had on a whitegarment; and used to take his progress outof the city in the morning. There was a cer­tain place about fifty furlongs distant fromJerusalem, which is called JEtham; verypleasant in fine gardens, and abounding withrivulets of water. Thither did he use to goout in the morning, sitting on high in hischariot. Now Solomon had a divine sagacity in all who perhaps brought elephants out of India, or at leasttook care to have a great deal of i?ory imported fromthence, for, in after ages, we read of ivory beds, andivory palaces, &c. At this time, however, it was everywhit as precious as gold: and therefore we must not sup­pose that this throne of Solomon's was entirely overlaidwith gold, (for then it might as well be made of wood,)but only in particular places, that so the mixture of goldand ivory, which gave a lustre to each other, might makethe throne look more beautiful. The like to this, the textsays, there was not made in any kingdom, 1 Kings x. 20.and perhaps it was so in those days; but, in after ages,we read, that the throne of the Parthian kings was of gold,encompassed with four golden pillars, beset with preciousstones; and that the Persian kings sat in judgment undera golden vine, (and other trees of gold,) the bunches ofwhose grapes were made of several sorts of preciousstones. Patrick's Commentary. B. * About an. 1018. t 1 Kings x. 26. J Whether these fine gardens and rivulets of Etham,about six miles from Jerusalem, whither Solomon rode sooften in state, be not those alluded to, Eccles. ii. 5, 6.where he says, he made him gardens and orchards, andplanted trees in them of all kinds of fruits: he made himpools of water, to water the wood that bringeth forthtrees: and to the finest part whereof he seems to allude,when in the Canticles be compares his spouse to a gardenenclosed, to a spring shut up, to a fountain sealed, chap,iv. 12. (part of which fountains are still extant, as Mr.Maundrell informs us, page 87, 88.) cannot now be cer­tainly determined; but may very probably be conjectured.Rut whether this Etham has any relation to those riversof Etham, which Providence once dried up, in a miracu­lous manner, Psal. Ixxiv. 15. in the Septuagint and Con-stitut. Apost. VIII. 12. page 402. I cannot say. 3G2