OCR Output 30 ROMAN EMPIRE. voutly tortured the enemy of Christ and St. Cyril; and,as far as the confines of ^Ethiopia, the heretic was al­ternately dragged and recalled, till his aged body wasbroken by the hardships and accidents of these reite­rated journeys. Yet his mind was still independent anderect; the president of Thebais was awed by his pasto­ral letters; he survived the Catholic tyrant of Alexan­dria, and, after sixteen years' banishment, the synod ofChalcedon would perhaps have restored him to the ho­nours, or at least to the communion of the church. Thedeath of Nestorius prevented his obedience to their wel­come summons;' and his disease might afford somecolour to the scandalous report, that his tongue, the or­gan of blasphemy, had been eaten by the worms. Hewas buried in a city of Upper Egypt, known by thenames of Chemnis, or Panopolis, or Akmin ;k but theimmortal malice of the Jacobites has persevered for agesto cast stones against his sepulchre, and to propagate thefoolish tradition, that it was never watered by the rainof heaven, which equally descends on the righteous andthe ungodly.1 Humanity may drop a tear on the fate ofNestorius; yet justice must observe,that he suffered thepersecution which he had approved and inflicted.™ The death of the Alexandrian primate, after aEutychM, reign of thirty-two years, abandoned the Catho-A. D.448. tne intemperance of zeal, and the abuse of 1 The invitation of Nestorius to the synod of Chalcedon, is related by Zachariusbishop of Melitene, (Evagrius, lib. 2. c. 2. Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 55.)and the famous Xenaias or Philoxenus, bishop of Hierapolis, (Asseman. Bibliot.Orient, torn. 2. p. 40, &c.) denied by Evagrius and Asseman, and stoutlymaintained by La Croze. (Thesaur. Epistol. torn. 3. p. 181, &c.) The fact is notimprobable ; yet it was the interest of the Monophysites to spread the invidiousreport; and Eutychius (torn. 2. p. 12.) affirms, that Nestorius died after an exile ofseven years, and consequently ten years before the synod of Chalcedon. k Consult d'Anville. (Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 191.) Pocock, Description of theEast, vol. 1, p. 76.) Abulfeda, (Descript. Egypt, p. 14.) and his commentator Mi-chaelis, (Not. p. 78 — 83.) and the Nubian Geographer, (p. 42.) who mentions, in thetwelfth century, the ruins and the sugar-canes of Akmirn. Eutychius, (Annal. torn. 2. p. 1 2. ) and Gregory Bar-Hebraus, of Abulpharagins,(Asseman. torn. 2. p. 316.) represent the credulity of the tenth and thirteenth cen­turies. 01 We are obliged to Evagrius (lib. 1 . c. 7 ) for some extracts from the letters ofNestorius ; but the lively picture of his sufferings is treated with insult by the hardand stupid fanatic.