OCR Output 311 MEGARA. MKGARA. On the ascent to the citadel Alcathne, Pausaniassaw, on the right hand, the sepulchre of Megareus,and near it the hearth of the gods called Prodomeis,to whom Alcathous sacrificed when he was going tobuild the walls. Here was the stone upon whichApollo laid his lyre, when he was assisting Alca­thous, and which, on being struck, returned a soundlike that of a harp. (Coinp. Thcogn. 771 ; Ov.ilet. viii. 14.) Beyond was the council-house(flouXfvr^piov) of the Megarians, formerly the se­pulchre of Timalcus ; and on the summit of theAcropolis was a temple of Athena, containing astatue of the goddess, entirely gilded, with the ex­ception of the face, hands, and feet, which were ofivory. Here, also, were temples of Atbena Nice,or Victory, and Aeantis. The temple of Apollowas originally of brick, but had been rebuilt of whitemarble by Hadrian. Here, also, was a temple ofDcnieterThesinophorus, in descending from which oc­curred the tomb of Callipolis, daughter of Alcathous. On the road leading to the Prytaneiuni the tra­veller passed the heroum of Ino, the heroum ofIphigeneia, and a temple of Artemis said to havebeen erected by Agamemnon. In the l'rytaneiumwere tombs of Menippus, son of Megareus, andKchepolis, son of Alcathous ; near which was a stonecalled Anaclethra, because here Demeter sat downand called her daughter. Pausanias next mentionsthe sepulchres of those Megarians who had fallen inbattle against the Persians, and the Aesymnium, sonamed from its founder, which contained a monu­ment of the heroes of Megara. There were .severalsepulchral monuments on the way from the Ae­symnium to the heroum of Alcathous, in which thepublic records were preserved in the time of Pau­sanias. Beyond was the Dionysium or temple ofDionysus; close to which was the temple of Aphro­dite, containing several statues by Praxiteles. Nearthe latter was a temple of Fortune, with an imageof the goddess by Praxiteles. A neighbouringtemple contained statues of the Muses, and a Jupiterin brass, by Lysippus. In the Agora stood the tombs of Cornelius and ofthe athlete Orsippus, the former of which was orna­mented by some of the most ancient specimens ofsculpture which Pausanias had seen in Greece, Ondescending from the Agora by the street calledStraight, there stood, a little to the right, the templeof Apollo Prostaterius, with a statue of the god ofgreat merit, as well as other statues by Praxiteles.In the ancient gymnasium, near the gates calledNymphadc*. was a pyramidal stone, called by the na­tives Apollo Carinus, and a temple of the Eileithyiae. On the road to the port of Nisaea was a temple ofDemeter Maluphorus. The Acroi«>lis of Nisaea stillremained ; on descending from the Acropolis therewas the tomb of I.clex on the sea-side. Near Nisaeawas a small island, called Minoa, where the Meet of theCretans was moored during the war against Nisus. Megara still retains its ancient name, but it is amiserable place. It occupies only the western of thetwo ancient citadels, and as this was probably Alca-thoe, the town on the summit is on the site of thetemple of Athena. There are hardly any remains ofantiquity at Mcgara. On the eastern acropolis thi-reare a few remains of the ancient walls. None of thenumerous temples mentioned by Pausanias can beidentified; and only one of them is marked by thefrusta of some Ionic columns. The magnificentaqueduct of Thcagenes has disappeared; and someimperfect foundations and a large fountain on the northern side of the town are the only remains of tkacelebrated fountain of the Sithnide nymph*. Of the Long Walls, uniting Megara with XUaea, v»have already spoken. They are noticed by Aristophaiesunder the name of to. Mtyaputa. omi\n (l^mtr.1172). They were destroyed by the Mrganansthemselves, as we have already seen, in the rirbtbyear of the Peloponnesian War, but they were subse­quently restored by Phocion. Slrmbo speaks <i tbsmas if they still existed in his time (ix. p. 391). botthey would seem to have fallen to ruin before that rfPausanias, as he makes no mention of them. Ac­cording to Thucydides (iv. 66) they were 8 stadiain length, but according to Strabo (i c) 18 stadia. The position of Nisaea and Minoa has given riseto much dispute, as the localities described byThucydides do not agree with the present featuresof the coast. The subject has been briefly dtsruwdby Colonel Leake (Northern Gretct, vol. ii. p. 401),and more fully by Dr. Arnold (T/iucyd. ml. ii.p. 393) and Lient. Spratt. {].<milon GtograpkiailJournal, vol. viii. p. 205.) Thucydides represent*Minoa as an island close to Nisaea, and united to thelatter by a bridge over a morass. On Mima tteMegarians had built a fortress (Thuc. iii. 51 \Strabo (ix. p. 39) calls Minoa a promontory (&ras).He says that, " after the Scironian rocks, we cume tothe promontory Minoa, forming the harbour ofNisaea." Pausanias (i. 44. § 3), however, »£r*e»with Thucydides in calling it an island ; but itmay be observed that the expiession of Strabo (&rsa)is not inconsistent with its being an island, as statedby Thucydides and Pausanias. The ditii.-ulty indetermining the site of Minoa and Nisaea arivsfrom the fact, that there is at present no island offthe coast which can be identified with Minoa. Atthe distance of nearly a m le and a half from Me­gara there is a small rocky peninsula, and furtheroff two islands, the inner one of which affordsshelter to a few of the small class of coasters.Hence it has been supposed that the inner islandwas Minoa, as it forms the port of the Megarians ofthe present day. But this island is distant from th*promontory about 200 yards, with 7 fathoms ofwater between them ; consequently they could wvtthave been connected by a bridge. It might, indeed,bo argued, that the peninsula was once an island:but this is disproved by the fact that its isthmus isof equal height with its extremity. Moreover thereare no ancient remains, either on this island or thepeninsula. Other writers, among whom are Colonel Leake andDr. Arnold,suppose the promontory of TiMn (see map.No. 6), further to the east, at the entrance of the stra. tof Salamis, to have been Minoa, since it may at onetime have been an island. Accordingly, the state­ment of Strabo respecting the length of the LongWalls, is preferred to that of Thucydides. But th spromontory is nearly 3 miles in length, whirh islarger than is implied in the description of Thucy­dides (iii. 51), who speaks of it as fortified only by sisingle fort. Moreover, Pausanias calls Minoa a s'malisland. Lieutenant Spratt has offered a more probablesolutif n of the difficulty. He supposes Minoa to hva rocky hill, surmounted by a ruined fortress, andstanding on the margin of the sea south of Megara,at the distance of little more than a get^rraphiemile, thus agreeing with the 8 stadia of Thucy­dides. "Tlutt this hit] was once a peniinula. appi-snevident from the dry beds of two rivers, which f«-scluoe to its base ; one on each aide. The eastern