OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ij fortified cities, which the Romans considered as the" refuge of weak­ness or pusillanimity, the legions were encamped on the banks ofthe great rivers, and along the frontiers of the barbarians. As theirstations, for the most part, remained fixed and permanent, we may-venture to describe the distribution of the troops. Three legioaswere sufficient for Britain. The principal strength lay upon theRhine and Danube, and consisted of sixteen legions, in the follow­ing proportions; two in the Lower, and three in the Upper Germany;one in Rhætia, one in Noricum, four in Pannonia, three in Mæsia,and two in Dacia. The defence of the Euphrates was intrusted toeight legions, six of whom were placed in Syria, and the other twoin Cappadocia. With regard to Egypt, Africa, and Spain, as theywere far removed from any important scene of war, a single legionmaintained the domestic tranquillity of each of those great provinces.Even Italy was not left destitute of a military force. Above twentythousand chosen soldiers, distinguished by the titles of City Cohortsand Praetorian Guards, watched over the safety of the monarch andthe capital. As the authors of almost every revolution that distractedthe empire, the prætorians will, very soon, and very loudly demandour attention; but, in their arms and institutions, we cannot findany circumstance which discriminated them from the legions, unlessit were a more splendid appearance, and a less rigid discipline 6j. The navy maintained by the emperors might seem inadequate to Navy,their greatness; but it was fully sufficient for every useful purposeof government. The ambition of the Romans was confined to theland; nor was that warlike people ever actuated by the enter­prising spirit which had prompted the navigators of Tyre, of Car­thage, and even of Marseilles, to enlarge the bounds of the worldand to explore the most remote coasts of the ocean. To the Romansthe ocean remained an object of terror rather than of curiosity 66; thewhole extent of the Mediterranean, after the destruction of Carthage,and the extirpation of the pirates, was included within their pro- Vol. I. D vinces.