OCR Output MACEDONIA. 837 MACESTUS. The Peutinjer Table furnishes the following routefrom Pella to Larisua in Thessaly: — PelU. Beroea - - Film Ascordus - „ Aniloa - - „ B»Ja - - „ Anamo - „ Hat era - - Katerina. Bimn (Dium) - - MaUithria. Siibatium - - „ Stenas (Tempe) - Lykostomo. Olrmpum - „ Two roads led to Stobi in Paeonia, the one fromHmeka LyncwtB, the other from Thessalonica.According to tlie Table, the stations of the formerare — He faciei a. Ceramie, Euristo (Andaristus). Stobi.Of the latter — Thessalonica. Gallicum - - Galliko. Tauriana - - JJoirdn. Momenta - „ BCoau (Stena) - Demirkapi. Antigonia - „ Stobi - „ Ynm Stobi again two roads struck off to the NW.■nd KB. to Sccipi (Sk6pi(i). at the 4i de'bouche*" fromthe Ulyrian mountains into the plains of Paeoniaand the Upper A.\ius. and to Serdiea;— Stobi. Tnumpum. Astibon - - htib. PautaUa - - Ghiustendil. Aelea Serdicm - - Sofia. (Coasinery. Voyage dans la Macedoine, 2 vols. Paris,1831; Leake, Travels in North Greece, 4 vols. Lon-d-fl 1835; Ami B^ue". La Turquie eTEurojje, 4 vols.Paris. 1840; Griesbach, Reise durch Humelien undA'aol Brusa, 2 vols. Gttttingen, 1841; Jos. Midler,Albanien Humelien, und die Osttrreichisch-Mon-tenegrische Grewe, Prmg. 1844; Kiepert, Gtneral-Karte der Europaischen Turkei, 4 parts, Berlin.1853; Xiebuhr, Led. on Anc. Ethn->g. and Geotj.voL i. pp. 275, 297; UaJin Albanesuche Studien,Jena 1854.) Though the Macedonians were regarded by theGreeks as a semi-barbarous people, the execution oftbeir coins would not lead to that inference, as theyare fine and striking pieces, boldly executed in high,sharp, relief. The coin of Alexander I. of Macedon,te-c. 500, is the first known monarchic coin in theworld that can be identified with a written name,and to which, consequently, a positive date can beasigned. It has for ** type" a Macedonian warriorleading a horse; he bears two lances, and wears theMacedonian hat. The coins of the princes who fol­lowed him exhibit the steps towards perfection verygraphically. ^ith Philip II. a new era in the Macedoniancoinage commences. At this period the coins hadMnn perfect on both sides, that is, had a M reverse"*]ual in execution to the "obverse." During his«ign the gold mines at Mt. Pangaeus were worked.He issued a large gold coinage, the pieces of which*ent by bis name, and were put forth in such abun­dant* as to circulate throughout all Greece. The series of coins, from Philip II. to the extinction ofthe monarchy, exhibit the finest period of Greekmonetary art. (Comp. H. N. Humphrey's AncientCoins and Medals, London, 1830, pp. 58—65.)During the tctrarchy there are numerous existingcoins, evidently struck at Amphipolis, bearing thehead of the local deity Artemis Tauropolos, with an'•obverse" representing the common Macedonian"type," the club of Hercules within a garland ofoak, and the legend MatttZdyuiv Trpwrns. (Comp.Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 61, full.) [E. B. J.] COIN* OF MACEDONIA. MACELLAorMAGELLA(Ma«€XAa:il/aee//rtro),a town in the N \V. of Sicily, which is noticed byPolybius (i. 24) as being taken by the Homan con­suls, C. Duillius and Cn. Cornelius, as they returnedafter raising the siege of Segesta, in B.C. 260. Itis interesting to find the same circumstance noticed,and the name of this otherwise obscure town men­tioned, in the celebrated inscription on the rostralcolumn which records the exploits of C. Duillius.(Orell. Itiscr. 549.) It would seem from Diodorus.that at an earlier period of the t-ame war, theRomans had besieged Macella without success,which may account for the importance thus attachedto it (Diod, xxiii. 4. p. 502.) The passage ofPolybius in reality affords no proof of the position ofMiicclla, though it has been generally received as anevidence that it was bituated in the neighbourhoodof Segesta and Pnnormus. But as we find a townstill called Afacellaro, in a strong position on a hillabout 15 miles E. of Segesta, it is probable thatthis may occupy the site of Macella. The onlyother mention of it in history occurs in the SecondPunic War (B.C. 211), among the towns which re­volted to the Carthaginians after the departure ofMarcellus from Sicily. (Liv. xxvi. 21.) As itsname is here associated with those of Hybla andMurgantia, towns situated in quite another part ofthe island, Cluverius supposes that this must be ndistinct town from the Macella of Polybius; butthere is clearly no sufficient reason for this as­sumption. The name is written in the old editionsof Livy, Magella; and we find the Magellini enume­rated by Pliny among the stipendiary towns of theinterior of Sicily (Plm. iii. 8. s. 14), while Ptolemy,like Polybius, writes the name Ma««AAa. (Ptol. iii.4. § 14.) The orthography is therefore dubious, asthe authority of so ancient an inscription as that ofDuillius is of no avail in this case. The coins whichhave been ascribed to Macella are of very dubiousauthenticity. [E. H. B.] MACEPHRACTA (Ammian. xxiv. 2), a smalltown of Babylonia mentioned by Ammianus Marcel -linus. It was situated apparently on the Euphrates,to the W. of Sittace, not far from the place wherethe Royal Canal, or Nahr-malka} joined the Eu­phrates. [V.] MACESTUS or MECESTUS(MoWtm or M'-Kcortir), a tributary of the river Khyudacus: it took