OCR Output 38 WORKING OF GOLD MINES. and barren mountains of Spain, which produce nothing else, areforced to be fruitful in this good thing. The ore which is dug outof the open pits is called Canalicium by some, and by others Ca-naliense;5 it is imbedded in marble,6 but it does not sparkle, as isthe case in the Oriental sapphire7 and the Thebaic stone,8 and inmany other gems; it rather appears to surround the particles ofthe marble. The channels in which these veins are found, passin all directions along the sides of the trenches, whence their nameis derived; the earth is propped up by wooden pillars. What isdug up is pounded, washed, roasted, ground to powder, and beatenin mortars. The part that comes out of the furnace is called sil­ver; while the impure dross which is thrown out of the stove, fromwhatever metal it is derived, is called scoria." The scoria of goldis pounded, and is again subjected to the furnace. The smeltingpots are made of Tasconium;1 this is a white earth, considerablyresembling clay; no other substance will resist the blast, the heatof the furnace, and the burning fuel. The third method of procuring gold almost surpasses the laboursof the giants. Shafts2 are driven of considerable length, and themountains are excavated by the light of lamps. The labourersare relieved at regular intervals; but for many months they neversee the light of day. Shafts of this kind are called Arrugiae.1 It 5 Channelled, from canalis. 6 " Marmoris glareae;" the word marmor must here be applied to quartzor some other primitive rock, which is the ordinary matrix of gold. 'In describing the sapphire, he says, "aurum punctis collucet coeruliis;"lib. xxxvii. sec. 39. » The Thebaic stone is said to be " interstinctus aureis guttis;" lib. xxxvi.sec. 13. 9 As the term scoria is here used, it will include both the extraneoussubstances that are separated from the metal by smelting, and any part ofthe metal that becomes oxidized during the process.^ 1 The French translator informs us that Tascos is an old Castilian wordsignifying impurity; t. x. note in p. 587, 8. * "Cuniculi." We hay e a very interesting account, by Diodorus Siculus,of the gold mines on the confines of Egypt, ^Ethiopia, and Arabia; Kb. iii.sec. 12.. 4,; the descriptions of Diodorus and of Pliny mutually illustrateeach other. a We are told by Harduin, see note in Valpy, p. 4354, that the wordarrugiw occurs in the Aulularia of Plautus; but on referring to thecomedy it appears to be found only in the "supposita," added by theeditor; see p. 173. The French translator informs us that arrugia is stillapplied in Spain to a deep mine; t. x. p. 588.