OCR Output $o6, THE DECLINE AND FALL distant country. There is the strongest reason to believe, that be­fore the reigns of Diocletian and Constantine, the faith of Christhad been preached in every province, and in all the great cities of vfe^offhe tne empire > Dut tne foundation of the several congregations, the Christianity numbers of the faithful who composed them, and their proportionto the unbelieving multitude, are now buried in obscurity, or dis­guised by fiction and declamation. Such imperfect circumstanceshowever, as have reached our knowledge concerning the increaseof the Christian name in Asia and Greece, in Egypt, in Italy, andin the West, we shall now proceed to relate, without neglecting f' the real'or imaginary acquisitions which lay beyond the frontiers of t the Roman empire. . . ntfie'Eafe The rich provinces that extend from the Euphrates to the Ioniansea, were the principal theatre on which the apostle of the Gentilesdisplayed his zeal and piety. The feeds of the gospel, which hebad scattered in a fertile soil, were diligently cultivated by his dis­ciples; and it should seem that, during the two first centuries,the most considerable body of Christians was contained withinthose limits. Among the societies which were instituted in Syria,none were more ancient or more illustrious than those of Damascus,of Berea or Aleppo, and of Antioch. The prophetic introductionof the Apocalypse has described and immortalised the seven churchesof Asia; Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, Thyatira Sardes, Lao-dicea, and Philadelphia; and their colonies were soon diffused overthat populous country. In a very early period, the islands ofCyprus and Crete, the provinces of Thrace and Macedonia, gave-a- favourable reception to the new religion; and Christian republicswere soon founded in the cities of Corinth, of Sparta, and ofAthens '5*. The antiquity of the Greek and Asiatic churchesallowed a sufficient space of time for their increase and multipli­cation, and even the swarms of Gnostics and other heretics serve todisplay the flourishing condition* of the orthodox church, since the 3 •' appellatioa