OCR Output 372 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI1I. only of the weakest ships, and those ranged at too greata distance from one another; especially as in numberof vessels they were quite inferior, and as the coastround the Cynos-sema was sharp, and in an acute angleruns out into the water, so that part of the line on oneside was out of fight of the other. The Peloponne-sians, therefore, charging the center, drove at once theships of the Athenians upon the beach; and, being sofar manifestly victors, leaped boldly on shore to pursuethem. But neither those under Thrasybulus could assistthe center from the right, because of the multitudeof ships that stood in to awe them; nor couldthose under Thrasyllus do it from the left, be­cause the interposition of cape Cynos-sema hid from himthe view of what had passed; and at the same time theSyracusans and others, who, equal in strength, lay hardupon him, prevented his moving. At length, the Pe-loponnesians, presuming the victory their own, broketheir order to give different chace to single ships, andin too heedless a manner threw confusion upon a part oftheir own line. And now those under Thrasybulus,finding the squadron opposed to them began to slacken,stopped all farther extension of their line a-head; and,tacking upon them, resolutely engaged, and put themto flight. Charging next the dispersed ships of the Pe-loponnesians, which composed the squadron that pre­sumed itself victorious, they made havoc; and, by stri­king them with a panic, routed the greater part withoutresistance. Now also the Syracusans were beginning togive way before the squadron under Thrasyllus ; and,feeing others in open flight, were more easily temptedto follow their example. The defeat now being mani­festly given, and the Peloponnesians flying away forshelter, first towards the river Pydius, and afterwardsto Abydus, the Athenians made prize of only an incon­siderable number of shipping; for the Hellespont, be­ing narrow, afforded short retreats to the enemy. How­ever they-gained a victory by sea, most opportune in­deed