OCR Output 444 NOLA. nomi:ntum. 123.) The bouse in which he died Wal afterwardsconsecrated as a temple to las memory (Dion Cass.Ivi. 46). From tin's time we find no historical men­tion of Xola till near the close of the Roman Empire;but there is no doubt that it continued throughoutthis ]>criixl to he one of the most flourishing andconsiderable cities of Campania. (Strab. v. pp. 247,249; Ptol. iii. t. § 09; Ititi. Ant. p. 109; Orel I. Inter.2420, .3855, &c; Mommaen, Inscr. R. N. pp. 101—107.) Its territory was ravaged by Alaric inA. D. 410 (Augustin, Civ. Dei. i. 10); but the cityitself would Beem to have osea]jed, and issnid to havebeen still very wealthy (" urbs ditissima ") as lateas a. i). 455, when it was taken by Geuseric, kingof the Vandals, who totally destroyed the city, andsold all the inhabitants into captivity. {Hut* Miscrll.xv. pp. 552, 55.3.) It is probable that Xola neverrecovered this blow, and sank into comparative in­significance in the middle ages; but it never ceasedto exist, and is still an episcopal city, with a popula­tion of about 10.000 souls. There is no doubt that the ancient city wassituated on the same site with the modern one. Itis described both by Livy and Silius Italtcus asstanding in & level plain, with no natural defences,and owing its strength as a fortress solely to its w allsand towers (Liv. xxiii. 44; Sil. ltal. xii. 103); acircumstance which renders it the more remarkablethat it should have held out so long against theRoman arms in the Social War. Scarcely any re­mains of 1 lie ancient city are now visible; butAmbrosias Leo, a b>cal writer of the early part ofthe 10th century, describes the remains of two am­phitheatres as still existing in his time, as well usthe foundations of several ancient buildings, whichhe considered as temples, beautiful mosaic pavements,Sec (Ambrosii Leonis tie Vrbe Xolti, i. 8, cd. Venet.1514.) All these have now disappeared; but nu­merous inscriptions, which have been discovered onthe spot, are still preserved there, together with theinteresting inscription in the Oscan language, actuallydiscovered at Abclla, and thence commonly known astheCippus Abel Ian us [AbklLa]. From this curiousmonument, which records the terms of a treatv be­tween the two cities of Xola and Abelht, we learnthat the name of the former city was written in theOscan language " Xuvla." (Mommsen, Vnter. JtaLD'wlcktc, pp. 119—127.) Hut the name of Ncla ismost celebrated among antiquarians as the placefrom whence a countless multitude of the paintedGreek vases (commonly known as Ktruscnn) havebeen supplied to almost all the museums of Kur<>pe.These vases, which are uniformly found in the ancientsepulchres of the neighbourhood, are in all proba­bility of Greek origin: it has been a subject of muchcontroversy whether they are to be regarded as pro­ductions of native art, manufactured on the spot, oras imported from some other quarter; but the lattersupposition is perhaps in the whole the most probable.The great love of these objects of Greek art whichappears to have prevailed at Nola may be sufficientlyaccounted for by the strong Greek predilections ofthe inhabitants, noticed by Dionysius (A\rc. Leg. p.2315). without admitting the existence of a Greekcolony, for which (as already stated) there exists nosufficient authority. (Kramer, iiber deii Sti/l. u. dieJltrkunjy Grieehischeii Thonge/asse, pp. 145 —159;Abeken, Mittel lUilkn, pp. 332— 339.) Nola is celebrated in ecclesiastical history as thesee of St. Paulinus in the 5th century; and also asthe place where, according to tradition, the use of bells was first introduced iu churches; whence ra»derived the names of" nola " and " caniptrja."' twullyapplied to such bells in the middle ages. (DuCsngt,(jiossur. i. r.) The territory of Nola, in common with aQ titCampanian plain, was one of great natural frrtnitj;According to a well-known anecdote related by AihslGellius (vii. 20). it was originally mentioned aflgreat praise by Virgil in the Georgics (ii. 225); Hthe people of Xola having given offence to the peat,he afterwards struck out the name of their city, adleft the line as it now stands. [K. II. Bj COIN OF NOLA. NOLI BA or XOBILI. a town of the OretssslHispania Tarraconensis, probably situated brtaafthe Anas and Tagus; but its site cannot be ssalfactorilv determined. It is mentioned onlv by U(xxxv.22). [T.*H.'D.J NOMADKS. [Numidia.] NOMAE (N(!,uai), a town of Sicily, mentioned as*by Diodorus (xi. 91) as the place where t>>ts)was defeated by the Syracusans in b, c. 451. 1site is wholly uncertain. Some authors idessnwith Xuae [Noak]; but there is no auttwriffithis. [E-H.»f XuMEXTUM (Hwfitvrov: ArA. Nwuewj)Steph. Ii.; Komentanns: Mentana), an socialof Latium, situated on the Sabine frontier,4 miles distant from the Tiber, and 14|Rome, by the road which derived tr- m Iname of Via Xomcntana. It was icrluasslthe territory of the Sabines, according; totension piven to that district in laterhci.ee it is frequently reckoned a Sabinethe authorities for its Latin origin areVirgil enumerates it among the colonies af(A en. vi. 773); and I>ionysius also calls it a<of that city, founded at the same time withtumcrium and Fidenae, both of which axebut erroneously, called Sabine cities. (53.) Still more decisive is the circuiits name occurs among the cities of theLatini which were reduced by the elder Ti(Liv. i. 38; Dionys. iii. 50), and is food Ilist given by Diony-ius (v. 61) of the cilia*concluded the league against Rome in a. tThere is, therefore, no doubt that Nomeniat this period, one of the 30 cities of the %League (Xiehuhr, vol. ii. p. 17, note); nearappear to have ever fallen into the hands ofliines. It is again mentioned more than oaaathe wars of the Romans with the Vtheir Etruscan allies; and a victory wasits walls by the dictator Servilius Prtscssa,(Liv. iv. 2*2, 30, 32); but the Nomentassi jselves arc not noticed as taking any part,however, joined with the other cities <afthe great Latin War of b. c. 338; and b»which followed it obtained the full right* "ofcitizens. (Liv. viii. 14.) From this, timetno more of Xomentum in history; but ithave continued a tolerably flourishing town-