OCR Output GOLD COIN. 29 that those alone to whom his freedmen had given access to hisapartments, were permitted to have the likeness of the Emperorengraven on their gold rings; a regulation which was the causeof many accusations. But the auspicious elevation of Vespasianput a stop to all these evils, by making the Emperor accessible toevery one. Enough, however, has now been said respecting goldrings, and the uses to which they have been applied. 13. OF GOLD MONEY. WHEN GOLD AND SILVER WERE FIRSTCOINED. WHAT WAS THE CUSTOM WITH RESPECT TO COPPERBEFORE THEY WERE COINED; AND WHAT WAS THE GREATESTaUANTITY OF MONEY AT THE FIRST CENSUS. HOW FREQUENTLY,AND AT WHAT PERIODS, AUTHORITY WAS GIVEN FOR COININGMONEY. The next crime was committed by the person who first coinedgold into money; but who it was that did this is not known. TheRomans certainly did not use even silver in the form of coin, pre­vious to their victory over king Pyrrhus. The As was, in the firstinstance, valued at a pound weight of copper; and hence its presentappellation of a pound, (libella), and of two pounds, (dupondius),for two Ases. Hence also fines were reckoned at a certain weightof copper; and from the same origin the terms "expensa," "im-"pensa," and "dependere," are derived. Hence also the pay ofthe soldiers is called a stipend, implying that it was ascertained byweight; and for the same reason stewards and paymasters aretermed "dispensatores," and "libripendes ;"6 and it is upon thesame principle that the balance is introduced in all contracts forconveying property. Servius, the king, was the first person whocoined copper. Timaeus informs us, that before this time, theyused it at Rome uncoined. It had the figure of an ox, (pecus),stamped upon it; and hence it was denominated "pecunia."The largest income 7 in that reign was 110,000 Ases; and hencethis was fixed upon as the standard for the first class of citizens. Silver was coined in the year of the city 485, in the consulshipof L. Agulnius and C. Fabius, which was five years before thefirst Punic war. A denarius8 was valued at ten pounds weights of e All these words are derived from " pendo," to weigh. We have notunfrequent allusions to the practice of weighing sums of money in the OldTestament, as in Jerem. xxxii. 7 " Census;" income as ascertained by the census. • A denarius was a silver coin of the value of 7%d. See Varro, De Ling.Lat. p. 47, 8.