OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 49 to Hercules Victor; but, as he had not been reared inaristocratic luxury and aristocratic corruption but was a"new man" and comparatively poor, he showed himself anupright and indulgent administrator. The statement, thatnone of the Achaeans perished but Diaeus and none of theBoeotians but Pytheas, is a rhetorical exaggeration: inChalcis especially sad outrages occurred; but yet on thewhole moderation was observed in the infliction of punish­ment. Mumnrius rejected the proposal to throw down thestatues of Philopoemen, the founder of the Achaean patrioticparty; the fines imposed on the communities were destinednot for the Roman exchequer, but for the injured Greek cities,and were mostly remitted afterwards; and the property ofthose traitors who had parents or children was not sold onpublic account, but handed over to their relatives. The worksof art alone were carried away from Corinth, Thespiae, andother cities, and were erected partly in the capital, partlyin the country towns of Italy :* several pieces were alsopresented to the Isthmian, Delphic, and Olympic temples.In the definitive organization of the country also modera­tion was in general displayed. It is true that, as was im­plied in the very introduction of the provincial constitution(ii. 63), the special confederacies, and the Achaean in par­ticular, were as such dissolved; the communities wereisolated; and intercourse between them was hampered bythe rule that no one might acquire landed property simul­taneously in two communities. Moreover, as Hamininushad already attempted (ii. 261), the democratic constitutionsof the towns were altogether set aside, and the governmentin each community was placed in the hands of a councilcomposed of the wealthy. A fixed land-tax to be paid toRome was imposed on each community; and they wereall subordinated to the governor of Macedonia in such amanner, that the latter as supreme military chief exercised asuperintendence over administration and justice, and could,for example, personally assume the decision of the moreimportant criminal processes. Yet the Greek communitiesretained "freedom," that is, a formal sovereignty—reduced,doubtless, by the Roman hegemony to a name—whichinvolved the property of the soil and the right of a distinct * In the Sabine villages, at Parma, and even at Italica in Spain (P. 4),several pediments marked with the name of Mummius have been brought tolight, which once supported gifts forming part of the spoil. VOL. III. E