OCR Output 18 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. wet cloth, in the nature of a net over him, and strangled him,and took his dominion. He was an active man, and had thegood-will of the Syrians, and of the people of Damascus to agreat degree; by whom both Benhadad himself, and Hazael,who ruled after him, are honoured to this day as gods by rea­son of their benefactions, and their building them temples, bywhich they adorned the city of the Damascenes. They also everyday do with great pomp pay their worship * to these kings, andvalue themselves upon their antiquity; nor do they know thatthese kings are much later than they imagine, and that they arenot yet eleven hundred years old. Now when Joram, the kingof Israel, heard that Benhadad was dead, he recovered out of theterror and dread he had been in on his account, and was veryglad to live in peace. CHAP. V. Concerning the wickedness of Jehoram king of Jerusalem. Hisdefeat and death. § 1. Now Jehoram the king of Jerusalem, for we have saidbefore that he had the same name with the king of Israel, as soonas he had taken the government upon him, betook himself to theslaughter of his brethren, and his father's friends, who were go­vernors under him, and thence made a beginning, and a de­monstration of his wickedness; nor was he at all better thanthose kings of Israel who at first transgressed against the lawsof their country, and of the Hebrews, and against God'sworship. And it was Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, whomhe had married, who taught him to be a bad man in other re­spects, and also to worship foreign gods. Now God would notquite root out this family, because of the promise he had made by his servant and successor Elisha: Nor does it seem to me otherwise, but thatBenhadad immediately recovered of his disease, as the prophet foretold; andthat Hazael, upon his being anointed to succeed him, though he ought to havestaid till he died by the course of nature, or some other way of divine punish­ment, as did David for many years in the like case, was too impatient, and thevery next day, smothered or strangled him, in order to come directly to the suc­cession. * What Mr. Le Clerc pretends here, that it i< more probable that Hazael andhis son were worshipped by the Syrians, and people of Damascus, till the days ofJoseplms, than Benhadad and Hazael, because under Benhadad they had greatlysuffered, and because it is almost incredible, that both a king, and that king'smurderer should be worshipped by the same Syrians, is of little force against thoserecords out of which Joscphus drew his history, especially when it is likely thatthey thought Benhadad died of the distemper he laboured under, and not byHazacl's treachery. Besides the reason that Josephus gives for this adoration, andthat these two kings had been great benefactors to the inhabitants of Damascus, andhad built them temples, is too remote from the political suspicions of Le Clcrcjnor ought such weak suspicions to be deemed of any force against authentic testi­monies of antiquity.