OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 19 We have attempted to explain the spirit which moderated, and Vle«r of the * * * provinces 01 the strength which supported, the power of Hadrian and the Anto- the Roman . r .r empire. nines. We shall now endeavour with clearness and precision todescribe the provinces once united under their sway, but, at present,divided into so many independent and hostile states. Spain, the western extremity of the empire, of Europe, and of the Spain,ancient world, has, in every age, invariably preserved the same na­tural limits; the Pyrenæan mountains, the Mediterranean, and theAtlantic Ocean. That great peninsula, at present so unequallydivided between two sovereigns, was distributed by Augustus intothree provinces, Lusitania, Bætica, and Tarraconensis. The king­dom of Portugal has succeeded to the warlike country of the Lu-sitanians; since the loss sustained by the former, on the side of theEast, is compensated by an accession of territory towards the North.The confines of Grenada and Andalusia correspond with those ofancient Baetica. The remainder of Spain, Gallicia, and the Asturias,Biscay, and Navarre, Leon, and the two Castilles, Murcia, Va­lencia, Catalonia, and Arragon, all contributed to form the thirdand most considerable of the Roman governments, which, from thename of its capital, was styled the Province of Tarragona 7°. Ofthe native barbarians, the Celtiberians were the most powerful, asthe Cantabrians and Asturians proved the most obstinate. Confidentin the strength of their mountains, they were the last who sub­mitted to the arms of Rome, and the first who threw off the yokeof the Arabs. Ancient Gaul, as it contained the whole country between the Gaul.Pyrenees, the Alps, the Rhine, and the Ocean, was of greater ex­tent than modern France. To the dominions of that powerfulmonarchy, with its recent acquisitions of Alsace and Lorraine, wemust add the dutchy of Savoy, the cantons of Switzerland, the fourelectorates of the Rhine, Liege, Luxemburgh, Hainault, Flanders,and Brabant. When Augustus gave laws to the conquests of his D 2 father,