OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ray The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumph of a very different kind, therestitution of the true cross to the holy sepulchre. Heraclius performed in per­son the pilgrimage of Jerusalem, the identity of the relic was verified by the dis­creet patriarchal) and this august ceremony has been commemorated by the an­nual festival of the exaltation of the cross. Before the emperor presumed totread the consecrated ground, he was instructed to strip himself ot the diademand purple, the pomp and vanity of the world: but in the judgment of his clergy,the persecution of the Jews was more easily reconciled with the precepts of thegospel. He again ascended his throne to receive the congratulations of the am­bassadors of France and India: and the fame of Moses, Alexander, and Hercu­les, (2) was eclipsed, in the popular estimation, by the superior merit and glory ofthe great Heraclius. Yet the deliverer of the east was indigent and feeble. Ofthe Persian spoils, the most valuable portion had been expended in the war, dis­tributed to the soldiers, or buried, by an unlucky tempest, in the waves of theEuxine. The conscience of the emperor was oppressed by the obligation of re­storing the wealth of the clergy, which he had borrowed for their own defence: aperpetual fund was required to satisfy these inexorable creditors; the provinces,already wasted by the arms and avarice of the Persians, were compelled to a se­cond payment of the same taxes, and the arrears of a simple citizen, the trea­surer of Damascus, were commuted to a fine of one hundred thousand pieces ofgold. The loss of two hundred thousand soldiers(3) who had fallen by the sword,was of less fatal importance than the decay of arts, agriculture, and population,in this long and destructive war: and although a victorious army had been formedunder the standard of Heraclius, the unnatural effort appears to have exhaustedrather than exercised their strength. While the emperor triumphed at Constan­tinople or Jerusalem, an obscure town on the confines of Syria was pillaged by theSaracens, and they cut in pieces some troops who advanced to its relief: an ordi­nary and trifling occurrence, had it not been the prelude of a mighty revolution.These robbers were the apostles of Mahomet; their fanatic valour had emergedfrom the desert; and in the last eight years of his reign, Heraclius lost to the Arabsthe same provinces which he had rescued from the Persians. CHAPTER XLVII. Theological history of the doctrine of the incarnation.—The human and divine natures ofChrist.—Enmity of the patriarchs of Alexandria and Constantinople.—St. Cyril andNestorius.—Third general council of Ephesus.—Heresy of Eutyches.—Fourth generalcouncil of C/ialcedon.—Civil and ecclesiastical discord.—Intolerance of Justinian.—Thethree chapters.—Monothelite controversy.—State of the oriental sects.—The Nestorians.—II. The Jacobites.—m. The Maronites.—lV. The Armenians.—\. The Copts andJlbyssinians. After the extinction of paganism, the Christians in peace and piety mighthave enjoyed their solitary triumph: but the principle of discord was alive in theirbosom, and they were more solicitous to explore the nature, than to practise thelaws, of their founder. I have already observed, that the disputes of the Trini­ty were succeeded by those of the Incarnation; alike scandalous to the church,alike pernicious to the state, still more minute in their origin, still more durablein their effects. It is my design to comprise, in the present chapter, a religiouswar of two hundred and fifty years, to represent the ecclesiastical and politicalschism of the oriental sects, and to introduce their clamorous or sanguinary con­tests, by a modest inquiry into the doctrines of the primitive church. (4) is mnch better suited to the present occasion. See his triumph in Theophanes, (p. 872,273.) and Nicephorus,-fp. 15,16.) The life of the mother and tenderness of the son are attested by George of Pisidia, (Bell. Abar.255, gee. p. 49.) The metaphor of the sabbath is used, somewhat profanely, by these Byzantine Christians. (1) See Baronius, (Anna). Eecles. A. D. 628. No. 1—4.) Eotychius, (Annal. torn. iS. p. 240—248.) Nicephorus,(Brev. p. 15.) The seals of the case had never been broken: and this preservation of the cross is ascribed (un­der God) to the devotion of queen Sira. (2) George of Pisidia. Acroas. iii. de Expcdit. contra Persas, 415, Sec. and Heraeleid, Across, i. 65—138. Ineglect the meaner parallels of Daniel, Timotheus, &c. Chosroes and the chagan were of course comparedto Belslinzzar, Pharaoh, the old serpent, 8tc. (3) Suidas (in Excerpt. Hist. Byzant. p. 40.) gives this number; but either the Persian must be read for theIsanrian war, or this passage does not belong to the emperor Heraclius. (4) By what means shall I authenticate this previous inquiry, which I bare studied to circumscribe ami