OCR Output 124 LIVY. and one five-banked galley, that they might act in con­cert both by land and sea in the execution of the busi­ness. 24. Scipio was seized with a severe fit of sickness;and the danger being magnified by report, (every one,through the natural propensity to exaggeration, add­ing something to what he had heard,) the whole pro­vince, more especially the distant parts of it, werethrown into disorder; which showed what importantconsequences must have attended the real loss of him,when the rumor of his illness alone could excite suchstorms. Neither the allies continued faithful, nor thearmy obedient to command. Mandonius and Indibilis,who had entertained confident expectations that, on theexpulsion of the Carthaginians, the dominion of Spainwould fall into their hands, being intirely disappointedin all their hopes, called together their countrymen ofLaceta and Illiturgi; sent for the young men of Celti-beria to assist them, and carried hostilities and devas­tation into the territories of the Suessetanians and Se-detanians, allies of the Roman people. Another com­motion arose in the camp at Sucro, where there wereeight thousand Romans stationed to secure the obedi­ence of the nations bordering on the Iberus. Theirdisposition to mutiny did not take its rise from the un­certain accounts of the general's life being in danger;it had sprung up some time before, from the licentious­ness incident to a long state of inaction, and partlyfrom their circumstances being straitened during peace,having been accustomed during the war to live moreplentifully on plunder. At first they only expressedtheir dissatisfaction in private discourses: 'If therewas a war in the province, what business had theythere, among people who were at peace? If the warwas already ended, why were they not carried back toItaly?' They also demanded their pay with a peremp-toriness unbecoming the condition of soldiers, whilethose on guard used to throw out abuse on the tribunesas they went their nightly rounds. Favored by thedarkness, some bad even gone out and plundered the