OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. computed by millions; one of their effective armies comsisted of four hundred thousand soldiers, and in less thanfifty years they were connected in peace and war withthe Romans, the Persians, and the Chinese. In theirnorthern limits, some vestige may be discovered of theform and situation of Kamtchatka, of a people of hunt­ers and fishermen, whose sledges were drawn by dogs,and whose habitations were buried in the earth. TheTurks were ignorant of astronomy; but the observationtaken by some learned Chinese, with a gnomon of eightfeet, fixes the royal camp in the latitude of forty-ninedegrees, and marks their extreme progress within three,or at least ten degrees, of the polar circle.d Amongtheir southern conquests, the most splendid was that ofthe Nepthalites or White Huns, a polite and warlike peo­ple, who possessed the commercial cities of Bochara andSamarcand, who had vanquished the Persian monarch,and carried their victorious arms along the banks, andperhaps to the mouth, of the Indus. On the side ofthe west, the Turkish cavalry advanced to the lake Msd-otis. They passed that lake on the ice. The khan,who dwelt at the foot of mount Altai, issued his com­mands for the siege of Bosphorus,0 a city, the voluntarysubject of Rome, and whose princes had formerly beenthe friends of Athens/ To the east, the Turks invadedChina, as often as the vigour of the government was re­laxed: and I am taught to read in the history of thetimes, that they mowed down their patient enemies likehemp or grass; and that the mandarins applauded thewisdom of an emperor who repulsed these barbarianswith golden lances. This extent of savage empire com- 'd Visdelou, p. 141. 151. The fact, though it strictly belongs to a subordinate andsuccessive tribe, may be introduced here. e Procopios, Persic, lib. 1. c. 12. lib. 2. c.3. Peyssonnel (Observations sur lesPeoples Barbares, p. 99, 100.) defines the distance between Catt'a and the old Bos­phorus at sixteen long Tartar leagues. 'f See, in a Memoir of M. <le Boze, (Mem. de 1'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. G.p. 549—565.) the ancient kings and medals of the Cimmerian Bosphorus ; and thegratitude of Alliens, in the Oration of Demosthenes" against Iicptines. (in llei-ke.Orator. Grsc. torn. 1. p. 466* 467.)