OCR Output 324 [book re ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the ships were destroyed, by being so greatand unwieldy; and, being thus disappointedof his profit, he was no longer concernedabout shipping. And this is the history ofJehoshaphat, the king of Jerusalem. CHAP. II. OF AHAZIAR KING OF ISRAEL; AND OF THE FURTHER ACTSOK THE PROPHET ELIJAH. N OW Ahaziah,* the son of Ahab, reignedover Israel, and made his abode in Samaria. He was a wicked man, and, in allrespects, like to both his parents; and toJeroboam, who first of all transgressed, andbegan to deceive the people. In the secondyear of his reign the king of Moab revoltedfrom his obedience, and left off'paying thosetributes which he had before payed to Ahab.Now it happened that Ahaziah, as he wascoming down from the top of his house,f felldown from it, and in his sickness sent to theFly,J which was the god of Ekron;|| for thatwas this god's name, to inquire about his re­ Ophir and Tarshish; and the place whence it sailed is inthem Eziongeber, which lay on the Red Sea, whence itwas impossible for any ships to sail to Pontus or Thrace.So that Josephus's copy differed here from our othercopies. But so far may we conclude, that Josephusthought one Ophir to be somewhere in the Mediterranean,and not in the South Sea; though perhaps there might beanother Ophir in that South Sea also; and fleets mightthen sail both from Phoenicia and from the Red Sea tofetch the gold of Ophir, I mean all this, unless what ourcopies call Ophir, Josephus's temple copy called Pontus,as the word is here rendered by him. Which is perhapsthe real truth, and clears the whole difficulty. * An. 899. t In the eastern countries the roofs of the houses wereflat, and surrounded with a battlement to prevent fallingfrom them, because it was a customary thing for people towalk upon them, in order to take the air. Now, in thisbattlement, we may suppose that there were some woodenlattices for people to look through, of equal height withthe parapet wall, and that Ahaziah negligently leaning onit, as it was rotten and infirm, it broke down, and let himfall into the court or garden belonging to his house. Orthere is another way whereby he might fall. In theseflat roofs, there was generally an opening which servedinstead of a sky-light to the house below; and this openingmight be done over with lattice-work, which the king, ashe was carelessly walking, might chance to step upon,and slip through. Nor is there any absurdity in supposingsuch lattice-work in a king's palace, when the world wasnot arrived at that height of art and curiosity that we findit in now. Fool's Annotations, and Calmet's Dissertationsur les edifices des anciens Hebrew. B. J The word signifies, The god of flies; but how thisidol came to obtain that name, it is not so easy a matter todiscover. Several are of opinion, that this god was calledBaal-semin, the lord of heaven, but that the Jews by wayof contempt, gave it the name of Baal-zebub, or the lordof a fly, a god that was nothing worth, or, as others say,whose temple was filled with flies; whereas the temple ofJerusalem, notwithstanding all the sacrifices that weredaily offered, never once had a fly in it, as their doctorsrelate. The sacred writings, indeed, when they speak ofthe gods of the Heathens, very frequently call them, ingeneral, idols, vanity, abominations, &c. but they neverchange their proper names into such as are of an oppro­brious import; neither can we think it likely, that theking of Israel would have called the god of Ekron, forwhom he had so high a veneration as to consult him in his•ickness, by any appellation of contempt. Whoever con- siders what troublesome and destructive creatures, espe­cially in some hot countries, flies are known to be; inwhat vast swarms they sometimes settle, and not only de­vour all the fruits of the earth, but in many places occa­sioned a noisome pestilence; may reasonably suppose,that the Heathens had a proper deity to whom they paidtheir addresses, either for the prevention or removal oftheir sore plagues. And accordingly we are told by Pliny,(lib. xxix. c. 6.) that when there was a plague in Africa,occasioned by vast quantities of flies, after that the peoplehad sacrificed to the god Achore, (he should have said thegod of Ekron, for there is a plain affinity between theirnames,) the flies all died, and the distemper was extin­guished. Now, it was a known maxim of the Heathentheology, that as all plagues were inflicted by some evildaemon or other, so all evil daemons were under the re­straint of some superior one, who is their prince and ruler.As therefore Pluto was known to be the god of hell, andto have all the mischievous band of spirits under his con­trol, to him the Heathens used to pray, and offer sacri­fices, that he might not suffer any of his inferior agents toinflict this heavy judgment upon them. They worshippedhim, I say, not to engage him to do them any good, but toprevail with him to do them no harm; and accordingly wemay observe, that every thing in their service was darkand gloomy. Their offerings were in the night: Turn Regi Stygio nocturnas inchoat aras. Virg. JEd. 6.Their victims were black: Hunc casta Sibylla Nigrantum multo pecudum te sanguine ducet. Ibid. jEn. 6.And the blood let out into a deep ditch: Cultros in guttera velleris atri Conjicit, et patulas perfundat sanguine fossas. Ovid, Met. 1. 7. Such good reason have we to think, that the Baal-zebub,in Scripture called the prince of the devils, was the verysame with the Pluto whom the Heathens made the god ofhell, and worshipped in this manner. Patrick's and heGere's Commentaries, and Jurieu Hist, des dogmes et cvltes,part iv. c. 3. &c. B. II Ekron was a city and government of the Philistines,which fell by lotto the tribe of Judah, in the first divisionmade by Joshua, Josh. xv. 45. but was afterwards givenup to the tribe of Dan, Josh. xix. 43. though it does notappear from history that the Jews ever had a peaceable