OCR Output KOMI A. NORA. 445 Jef < Tiiicia; iU municipal privileges down to abf> prncd, lu territory tu fertile, and produced■Ail »i»; which is celebrated by severalMm tr its qulity as well as its abundance.(HaLW.4.1.3; Colum. R. P. iii. 3; Athen. i. p.t.k. IbrJaLx. 48. 19.) Scnera bad a countryWat uA fsnn there, as well as Martial, and hisavail Q. Ovinias and Nepos, so that it seems tobat Wa t place of some resort as a country retire-tan it people of quiet habits. Martial contrastssBtbbrwpKt with the splendour and luxury ofsaw tad ether fashionable watering-places; and■Bans Nepos, in like manner, terms the villa ofpra. si Noujentum, " rusticura praedium." (Sen.If. 1M: Martial, ri. 27, 43, X. 44, xii. 57 ; Nep. 1 Im anjer the Roman Empire there is muchpavamrv between our authorities as to whether■eeitara wsj to be reckoned A Latin or a Sabine■at Nnbo ascribes it to the latter people, whoseman W describes as extending from the TiberJlaaarom u> the confines of the Yestini (v. p.WL tftj, who appears to have considered the■awn » bonded by the Anio, naturally includesBbavatsai and Fidenates among them (iii. 12.I); taoafi he elsewhere enumerates the formertht tall existing towns of Latium, and theenaag those that were extinct. In like man-ftpl in ena me rating the Sabine followers oflea. rn. 712), includes "the city of No-tksagh he had elsewhere expressly assignedlias Is a colony from Alba. Ptolemy (iii.latisctly assigns Momentum as well as> Latium. Architectural fragments andmg remains prove the continued prosperityaader the Roman Empire: its name ■ the TabuU; and we leam that it became ■ aw kt the third century, and retained thiswn to toe tenth. The site is now occu-ivflafa, which bears the name of La Mm- m I —ra/uag, a corruption of Civitas Nomen-*» epprlklmn by which it was known in thean. This stands on a small hill, somewhatM tntjruit of access, a little to the right ofprobably occupies the sameSabine town: the Romanto bare extended itself at the foot of thethe high road, which seems to have passedtatmid.t of it. to Xomentum wasthe Via Nomentana.208: Tab. Prut.) It issued from thewhere it separated from the Viathe Anio by a bridge (known as theand still called Ponte Lamen-!y below the celebrated Muus Sacer,bad almost in a direct line to No-J en the way the site of Ficulea,it had previously derived the name of(Strab. t. p. 228; Liv. iii- 52.)Bef the ancient pavement, or other un­it Barks, trace its course with accuracyI oaa distance. From Xomentum it con-etraight line to Ereturn, where it rejoinedIn. (Strab. /. c.) The Tabula giveslaf ltaaaiiTiiin from Rome at xiv. M. P.;Caeca, according to Nibby, is half a mileikky, Dmtoni, vol. ii. p. 409, vol. iii. [E. II. B.] "Lrcjutca.] in the country of the Marcomanni (Bohemia), not far fromthe banks of the Albis; but its site cannot bedetermined. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 29; Wilhelm, Germanien,p. 222.) [L. S.] NONA'CRIS (NiiraKpis: F.th. Nuranpltrrns, Nw-vaxpifvs). 1. A town of Arcadia, in the district ofPheneatis, and NW. of Pheneus, which is said tohave derived its name from Nonacris, the wife ofLycaon. From a lofty rock above the town rose thewaters of the river Styx. [Styx.] Pliny speaksof a mountain of the same name. The place was inruins in the time of Pausanias, and there is no traceof it at the present day. Leake conjectures that itmay have occupied the site of Mesorvghi. (Herod,vi. 74; Paus. tHL 17. § 6; Steph. B. «. v.; Plin.iv. 6. s. 10; Sen. Q. jV. iii. 25; Leake, Morea,vol. iii. pp. 165, 169.) From this place Hermes iscalled Nonacriates (NavaKptd'riis, Steph. B. s. v.),Evander Nonacrius (Ov. Fast. v. 97), AtalantaNonacria (Ov. Met. vili. 426), and Callisto No-nacrina virgo (Ov. Met. ii. 409) in the general senseof Arcadian. 2. A town of Arcadia in the territory of Oreho-menus, which formed, together with Callia andDipoena, a Tripolis. (Paus. viii. 27. § 4.) NOORDA. [Nearda.] NORA (Napa: Eth. Ncopoydr, Steph. B.; No-rensis: Capo di Pula), a city of Sardinia, situatedon the S. coast of the island, on a promontory nowcalled the Capo di Pula, about 20 miles S. of Ca-gliari. According to Pausanias (x. 17. § 5) it wasthe most ancient city in the island, having beenfounded by an Iberian colony under a leader namedNorax, who was a grandson of Geryones. Withoutattaching much value to this statement, it seemsclear that Nora was, according to the traditions ofthe natives, a very ancient city, as well as one ofthe most considerable in later times. Pliny noticesthe Norenses among the most important towns ofthe island; and their name occurs repeatedly in thefragments of Cicero's oration in defence of It Ae-milius Scaurus. (Cic. pro Scaur. I, 2, ed. Orell.;Plin. iii. 7. s. 13; Ptnl. iii. 3. § 3.) The positionof Nora is correctly given by Ptolemy, though hisauthority had been discarded, without any reason,by several modern writers; but the site has beenclearly established by the recent researches of theComte de la Marmora: its ruins are still extant ona small peninsular promontory near the village ofPula, marked by an ancient church of St. Kjffuio,which, as we leam from ecclesiastical records, waserected on the ruins of Nora. The remains of atheatre, an aqueduct, and the ancient quays on theport, are still visible, and confirm the notion that itwas a place of importance under the Roman govern­ment. Several Latin inscriptions with the name ofthe city and people have also been found; and othersin the Phoenician or Punic character, which mustbelong to the period of the Carthaginian occupationof Sardinia. (De la Marmora, Voyage cnSarxlaigne,vol. ii. p. 355.) The Antonine Itinerary (pp. 84, 84), in which thename is written Nura, gives the distance from Cara-lis as 32 M. P., for which we should certainly read22: in like manner the distance from Sulci should he59 (instead of 69) miles, which agrees with thetrue distance, if we allow for the windings of thecoast. (De la Marmora, ii. p. 441.) [E. U. B.] NORA (to Napa), a mountain fortress of Cappa-docia, on the frontiers of Lycaonia, at the foot ofMount Tanrus, in which Eumenes was for a whole