OCR Output 328 THE PELOPOKNESIAN \Ar. • to that of their countrymen at Thermopylae*. For thosebeing hemmed in by the Persians in a narrow pass, were utter­ly destroyed: These, now inl ike manner beset on both sides,were no longer able to contend. Being but a handful of menopposed to superior numbers, and much weakened in theirbodies for want of food, they quitted their post. And thusthe Athenians became masters of all the approaches. But Cleon and Demosthenes, assuredly convinced thatshould the foe give way too fast, it would only conduce totheir expeditious slaughter under the fury of the victorioustroops, began to stop their fury and to draw off their men.They were desirous to carry them alive to Athens, in casethey would so far hearken to the voice of a herald as to throwdown their arms, dejected as they must be in spirit and over­powered with the instant danger. It was accordingly pro­claimed, that " such as were willing should deliver up their" arms and their persons to the Athenians, to be disposed of" at discretion." When this was heard, the greater number threw downtheir bucklers and waved their hands in token of acceptingthe proposal. A suspension of arms immediately tookplace, and a conference was held between Cleon and De­mosthenes on one side, and Styphon, the son of Pharax, onthe othen Of those who had preceded in the command,Epitadas, who was the first had been slain, and Hippagreteswho was his successor, lying as dead among the slain, thoughhe had yet life in him, Styphon was now the third appointedto take the command upon him, according to the provision • The famous three hundred Spartans with king I.eonidas at their head,who stopped the vast army of Xerxes at the pass of Thermopylx, and atlength perished all to a man. They were all afterwards intombed on thespot where they fell with this short epitaph ; Tell, traveller, at Sparta what you saw, That here'trelie obedient to her law.The same spirit and resolution was at this time generally expected fromthe Spartans, now encompassed round about by thrir enemies, in tlir isti-of Sphacteria.