OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. " other contents of your letter I am delighted. Let neither" night nor day relax your earnest endeavours to effectuate" those points you promise me : Nor stop at any expence of" gold or silver or greatness of military force, if such aid be" any where requisite. But confer boldly with Artabazus, a" trusty person, whom I have sent to you, about mine and your" own concerns, that they may be accomplished in the most" honourable and most advantageous manner for us both." Upon the receipt of this letter, Pausanias, who before hadbeen in high credit with the Grecians, through the lustre ofhis command at Plataea, was elevated much more than ever,and could no longer adjust his demeanor by the modes andcustoms of his native country. He immediately dressed him­self up in Persian attire, and quitting Byzantium, travelledthrough Thrace, attended with Persian and Egyptian guards;and refined his table into Persian elegance. His ambition hewas unable any longer to conceal, but by short sketches mani­fested too soon, what greater schemes he had formed in hismind for future accomplishment. He then shewed himselfdifficult of access, and let his anger loose so violently and soindiscriminately upon all men, that no one could approachhim. And this was not the least motive to the confederacyfor going over to the Athenians. But the Lacedaemonians,informed of this, recalled him the first time upon the accountof such behaviour ; and, when he was returned again in theHermionian vessel without their permission, he plainly ap­peared to have re-assumed again his former practices. Andwhen forced to remove from Byzantium by the oppositionraised against him by the Athenians, he went not back toSparta ; But withdrawing to Colona e of Troas, information wasgiven that " he was negotiating with the Barbarians, and had" fixed his residence there for very bad designs." Upon thisthey could no longer be patient, but the Ephori dispatched hima herald and the Scijtak*, with an order—" Not to stay be- • The Scytale is a famous instrument peculiar to the Lacedaemonians, andused by them for the close conveyance of orders to their ministers abroad.