OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 127 pio, well practised in wars, but utterly unacquaintedwith the storms of intestine commotions, was filled withanxiety on the occasion, fearing lest the army shouldexceed all bounds in transgressing, or himself in pu­nishing. For the present, he resolved to proceed ashe had begun, by gentle measures: having thereforedespatched collectors through the tributary states, hereceived reason to hope to be soon able to dischargethe arrears. An order was then published, that thetroops should come to Carthage to receive their pay,either in separate divisions or in one body, as theyshould choose. The mutiny, of itself abating in vio­lence among the Romans, was reduced to a state ofperfect tranquillity by the measures which the rebel­lious Spaniards suddenly adopted. Mandonius andIndibilis, on receiving information that Scipio wasalive, desisted from their undertaking, and returnedinto their own country, as there was now remainingneither countrymen nor foreigner to whom they couldlook, up for a concurrence in their desperate scheme.The soldiers, after revolving every plan, were of opi­nion that they had nothing left, except (what is notalways the safest retreat from bad counsels) the sub­mitting themselves either to the just anger of the ge­neral, or to his clemency, of which it was thought theyneed not despair. 'He had pardoned even enemies,with whom he had been engaged in battle: their mu­tiny had not been attended with any serious conse­quences; no lives had been lost, nor had any bloodbeen shed: therefore, as it had not in itself been vio­lent, it merited not a violent punishment.' Men'sminds are generally ingenious in palliating guilt inthemselves. They only hesitated, then, whether theyshould go and demand their pay in single cohorts or ina body. The majority voted that, as the safer way,they should proceed in a body. 26. Whilst they were employed in these delibera­tions a council was held at Carthage concerning them;the members of which were divided in opinion, whetherthe authors only of the mutiny, who were not more