OCR Output 328 ROMAN EMPIRE. as they are named, and eleven women); minutely di­rected the order of his funeral, and moderated the lamen­tations of his weeping friends, on whom he bestowed thebenediction of peace. Till the third day before hisdeath, he regularly performed the function of publicprayer; the choice of Abubeker to supply his place, ap­peared to mark that ancient and faithful friend as hissuccessor in the sacerdotal and regal office; but he pru­dently declined the risk and envy of a more explicit no­mination. At a moment when his faculties were visiblyimpaired, he called for pen and ink to write, or more pro­perly to dictate, a divine book, the sum and accomplish­ment of all his revelations: a dispute arose in the cham­ber, whether he should be allowed to supersede the au­thority of the Koran; and the prophet was forced to re­prove the indecent vehemence of his disciples. If theslightest credit may be afforded to the traditions of hiswives and companions, he maintained, in the bosom of hisfamily, and to the last moments of his life, the dignityof an apostle and the faith of an enthusiast; describedthe visits of Gabriel, who bade an everlasting farewellto the earth, and expressed his lively confidence, not onlyof the mercy but of the favour of the Supreme Being.In a familiar discourse he had mentioned his special pre­rogative that the angel of. death was not allowed to takehis soul till he had respectfully asked the permission ofthe prophet. The request was granted; and Mahometimmediately fell into the agony of his dissolution: hishead was reclined on the lap of Ayesha, the best belovedof all his wives: he fainted with the violence of pain;recovering his spirits, he raised his eyes towards the roofof the house, and with a steady look, though a falteringvoice, uttered the last broken, though articulate, words. O God! pardon my sins! Yes, ... / come> among my fellow citizens on high; and thus peaceably expired on a carpet spread upon the.floor. Anexpedition for the conquest of Syria was stopped by this