OCR Output AIT. 405 454.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. four hundred. And when the eunuch thoughtthe virgin had been sufficiently purified, inthe aforementioned time, and were now fit togo to the king's bed, he sent one to be withthe king every day. So when he had ac­companied with her, he sent her back to theeunuch. And when Esther had come tohim, he was pleased with her, and fell inlove with the damsel, and married her; andmade her his lawful wife,* and kept a wed­ding feast for her on the twelfth month, ofthe seventh year of his reign; which wascalled Adar. He also sent Angari, as theyare called, or messengers into every nation;and gave orders that they should keep a feastfor his marriage: while he himself treated thePersians, and the Medes, and the principalmen of the nations, for a whole month. Ac­cordingly Esther came to his royal palace,and he set a diadem pn her head, and thuswas she married;f without making known tothe king what nation she was derived from.Her uncle also removed from Babylon toShushan, and dwelt there: being every dayabout the palace, and inquiring how thedamsel did: for he loved her as though shehad been his own daughter. Now the king had made a law, that noneof his own people should approach him4 un­less he were called, when ne sat upon histhrone. And men with axes in their handsstood round about his throne; in order to punish such as approached to him, withoutbeing called. However the king sat with agolden sceptre in his hand; which he held outwhen he had a mind to save any one of thosethat approached to him, without being called;and he who touched it was free from danger. Some time after this two eunuchs,|| Big-than and Teresh, conspired against theking: and Barnabazus, the servant of oneof the eunuchs, being by birth a Jew, wasacquainted with their conspiracy, and dis­covered it to the queen's uncle. And Mor-decai, by the means of Esther, made theconspirators known to the king.§ This trou­bled the king: but he discovered the truth,and hanged the eunuchs upon a cross. Atthat time, however, he gave no reward toMordecai, who had been the occasion of hispreservation. He only bade the scribes toset down his name in the records; and badehim stay in the palace as an intimate friendof the king's. Now there was one Haman, the son ofAmedatha, by birth an Amalekite, that usedto go in to the king: and the foreigners andPersians worshipped him; as Artaxerxes hadcommanded that such honour should be paidto him. But Mordecai was so wise, and soobservant of his country's laws, that he wouldnot worship the man*** When Haman ob­served this, he inquired whence he came?and when he understood that he was a Jew, , * Esther ii. 17. t According to this account of things, this Persian mo­narch seems to have had but one wife, at least but one inchief favour and esteem with him, though it is certain, hecould not fail of having an infinite number of secondarywives or concubines. This was the name of every onethat was taken from among the virgins, who had a separatehouse for themselves, and conducted to the king's bed;where having passed a night, she returned no more to thevirgins' apartments, but was, the next morning, receivedinto the house of the concubines, and there treated in thestate and port of one of the king's wives: for such theyWere accounted. No man was permitted to marry them,as long as the king lived; and upon his demise, theygenerally fell to his successor. Of these Darius Nothusis reckoned to have had no less than three hundred andsixty. Pool's Annotations. The manner of the Persianking was to give his queens, at their marriage, such acity to buy them clothes; another for their hair; anotherfor their necklaces; and so on for the rest of their ex­penses. And as it was customary for him, according tothe testimony of Herodotus, upon his accession to thethrone, to remit the tribute that was due to him from allthe cities; so he might, upon this occasion, out of hisabundant joy, make a release to the provinces, and forgive them some of the duties and imposts that they were boundto pay him. Patrick's Commentary. B: J Take here Dr. Hudson's note, which ie this: Hero­dotus shews, lib. I. cap. 99. that this law against any one'scoming uncalled to the kings of Persia, when they weresitting on their thrones, was first enacted by Dejoces, i. e.by him who first withdrew the Medes from the dominionof the Assyrians, and himself first reigned over thera.Thus also, says Spanheim, stood guards, with their axes,about the throne of Tenus, or Tenelus, that the offendermight by them be punished immediately. II Those were two great men, who perhaps kept thedoor of the king's bed-chamber, and being either incensedat the divorce of Vashti, (whose creatures they were,)or at the advancement of Esther, who, in all probability,would raise her kinsman Mordecai to a superiority overthem, took disgust thereat, and so resolved to revengethemselves on the king for" it. Prideaux's Connection,and Patrick's Commentary. B. § Esther ii. 21, 22. ** Whether this adoration required of Mordecai to Ha­man, were by hhn deemed too like the adoration due onlyto God; as Josephus- seems here to think ; as well as theirSeptuagint interpreters also, by their translation of Estherxiii. 12, 13, 14. of whether he thought he ought to pay 3X2