OCR Output 366 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. years, the same coast of the Euxine applauded his YYYTY • return from a long and victorious expedition *. Deliver- Instead of skirmishing on the frontier, the two Constan- monarchs who disputed the empire of the East aimedfrom the their desperate strokes at the heart of their rival.Persians The military force of Persia was wasted bythe marches ana Avars, » J a. d. 626. and combats of twenty years, and many of the vete­rans, who had survived the perils of the sword andthe climate, were still detained in the fortresses ofEgypt and Syria. But the revenge and ambition ofChosroes exhausted his kingdom; and the new leviesof subjects, strangers, and slaves, were divided intothree formidable bodies t. The first army of fiftythousand men, illustrious by the ornament and titleof the golden spears, was destined to march againstHeraclius; the second was stationed to prevent hisjunction with the troops of his brother Theodoras;and the third was commanded to besiege Constan­tinople, and to second the operations of the chagan,with whom the Persian king had ratified a treaty ofalliance and partition. Sarbar, the general of thethird army, penetrated through the provinces of Asiato the well-known camp of Chalcedon, and amusedhimself with the destruction of the sacred and pro.fane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs, while he im­patiently waited the arrival of his Scythian friendson the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On the twenty-ninth of June, thirty thousand Barbarians, the van­guard of the Avars, forced the long wall, and droveinto the capital a promiscuous crowd of peasants, ci­tizens, and soldiers. Fourscore thousand of his na­tive subjects, and of the vassal tribes of Gepidfe, Rus­sians, Bulgarians, and Sclavonians, advanced under * George of Pisidia (Bell. Abaricum, 246—265. p. 49.) celebrates with truththe persevering courage of the three campaigns (t(ii; iripiSpoftoi/;) against the Per­sians. f Petavius (Annotationes ad Nicephorum, p. 62, 63, 64.) discriminates thenames and actions of five Persian generals who were successively sent againstHeraclius.