OCR Output CHAP. 61. ROMAN HISTORY. 195 good understanding that subsisted between the generaland the army, the jEqui were afraid to shew themselvesin the field, and suffered their country to be ravaged atpleasure, whence it followed, that the booty was moreconsiderable than they had taken from the ^Equi in anyformer war; and it was all given to the soldiers, and withit, the praises they merited, which gave them a pleasureno less sensible, than more substantial rewards. The army returned to Rome, with the warmest sen­timents of regard to their general, and on his account,in a great measure, to the whole order of the Patricians,telling every body, that the senate had in their general,given them a father: but in Appius, to the other army, acruel master. In the course of this year, there was various success inwar, and violent commotions at home and abroad. Itwas peculiarly memorable for the election of the tribunesby tribes, a circumstance which derived its importance,rather from-the victory gained over a violent opposition,than any real advantage that attended it: for the Comitiasuffered more in point of dignity by exctuding the fa-ihers from that assembly, than the power acquired bythe people, or lost by the senate, was really worth. CHAP. LXI. "Trial and death of Appius. I ... VALERIUS and T. /Emilius were consuls the fol­lowing year, when the commotions ran higher than ever,both on account of the contests between the orders of thesenate, occasioned by the Agrarian law, and also on ac­count of the trial of Appius, for which M. Duilius and C.Sicinius appointed a day, because he opposed the law,and supported the pretensions of the possessors of thepublic lands, with the same violent and inflexible spirit,as if he had been chosen consul for the third time. Never was a criminal cited before the people, moregenerally detested than he. To their tribunal he broughtwith him all the grievances charged against his father,as well as the crimes objected to himself; nor did thePatricians, on any former occasion, interest themselves