OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. garrison of six hundred archers, returned to Emesa, and employedsome time in the distribution of rewards and punishments at theend of so memorable a war, which restored to the obedience of Romethose provinces that had renounced their allegiance since the cap足tivity of Valerian. When the Syrian queen was brought into the presence of Aure- ^^^r oflian, he sternly*aiked her, How (he had presumed to rise in arm6against the emperors of Rome? The answer of Zenobia was a pru足dent mixture of respect and firmness. "Because I disdained to con-"sider as Roman emperors an Aureolus or a Gallienus. You alone"I ackowledge as my conqueror and my sovereign71." But asfemale fortitude is commonly artificial, so it is seldom steady or con足sistent. The courage of Zenobia deserted her in the hour of trial; shetrembled at the angry clamours of the soldiers, who called aloud for herimmediate execution, forgot the generous despair of Cleopatra, whichshe had proposed as her model, and ignominioufly purchased life by thesacrifice of her fame and her friends. It was to their counsels whichgoverned the weakness of her sex, that she imputed the guilt of her ob足stinate resistance; it was on their heads that she directed the vengeanceof the conqueror. The fame of Longinus, who was included amongthe numerous and perhaps innocent victims of her fear, will survivethat of the queen who betrayed, or the tyrant who condemned him.Genius and learning were incapable of moving a fierce unletteredsoldier, but they had served to elevate and harmonise the soul ofLonginus. Without uttering a complaint, he calmly followed theexecutioner, pitying his unhappy mistress, and bestowing comforton his afHicted friends 7\ Returning from the conquest of the East, Aurelian had already Rebellion andcrossed the Streights which divide Europe from Asia, when he was myra.provoked by the intelligence that the Palmyrenians had massacredthe governor and garrison which he had left among them, and againerected the standard of revolt. Without a moment's deliberation, Vol. I. S f he