OCR Output LYDIA. 223 LYDIA. xiii. p. 621), and, according to Meneeraies theEUeaii, the whole coast of Ionia, beginning fromMycale, and of Aeulis." (Xiebuhr, Hut. of Rome,ToLi. p. 32.) They no doubt extended beyond thecoast into the interior of the country. The existenceof a Pelasgian population is probably also impliedin the statement, that the most ancient royal dy­nasty of Lydia were Heracleidae, and that Lyduswas a brother of Tyrrhenus. The Lydians, on theother hand, are expressly stated to have had nothingin common with the l'elasgians (Dionys. i. 30),and all we know of them points to more easterncountries as their original home. It is true thatHerodotus connects the Heracleid dynasty with thatof Assyria, but if any value can be attached to thisstatement at all, it refers only to the rulers; but itmay be as unfounded as his belief that most of theGreek institutions had been derived from Egypt.The Lydians are described as a kindred people of theCarious and Mysians, and all three are said to havehad one common ancestor as well as one common lan­guage and religion. (Herod, i. 171.) The Cariansare the only one of these three nations that are men­tioned by Homer. It is impossible to ascertainwhat country was originally inhabited by the Ly­dians though it is reasonable to assume that theyoccupied some district near the Maeonians; and itis puneible that the Phrygians, who are said to havemigrated into Asia from Thrace, may have pressedupon the Lydians, and thus forced them to makeconquests in the country of the Maeonians. Thetime when these conquests took place, and when theMaeonians were overpowered or expelled, is con­jectured by Xiebuhr (Lect. on Arte. Hist, vol. i.p. 87) to have been the time when the Heracleiddynasty was supplanted by that of the Mennnadae,who were real Lydians. 'This would place the con­quest of Maeonia by the Lydians about the yearB. G 720. The Maeonians, however, after this,still maintained themselves in the country of theUpper Hermns, which continued to be called Mae­onia; whence Ptolemy ( v. 2. § 21) speaks of Mae­onia as a part of Lydia. Pliny (v. 30) alsospeaks of the Maeonii as the inhabitants of a districtbetween Philadelphia and Tralles, and Hierocles{p. 670) and other ecclesiastical writers mentiontijere a small town called Maeonia, which Mr. Ha­milton (fitsenrckes, vol. ii. p. 139. &c) is inclinedto identify with the ruins of Mvijne, about fivemiles west of Sandal. To what branch of thehuman family the Lydians belonged is a question Iwhich cannot be answered, any more than thatabout their original seats; all the Lydian wordswhich have been transmitted to us are quite foreignto the Greek, and their kinsmen, the Carians, aredescribed as a people speaking a barbarous lan­guage. 3. Institution* and Custom*.—Although the Ly­dians n.ust be regarded as barbarians, and althoughtLi-r were different from the Greeks both in their lan­guage and in their religion, yet they were capable,like some other Asiatic nations, of adopting or de­veloping institutions resembling those of the lireeks,'□ouch in a lesser degree than the Carians andLycians, for the Lydians always lived under a mo­narchy, and never rose to free political institutions.They and the Carians were both gifted nations;they cultivated the arts, and were in many respectstitle inferior to the Greeks. Previous to their con­quest by the Persians, they were an industrious,brate, aud warlike people, nnd their cavalry was regarded as the best at that time. (Herod, i. 79;Mimnerm. /. c.) Cyrus purposely crushed their war­like spirit, forbade them the use of arms, andcaused them to practice dancing and singing, insteadof cultivating the arts of war. (Herod, i. 154;Justin, i. 8.) Their subsequent partiality to music-was probably the reason why the Greeks ascribed tothem the invention of gymnastic games. (Herod,i. 94.) The mode of life thus forced upon them bytheir conquerors gradually led them to that degreeof effeminacy for which they were afterwards so no­torious. Their commercial industry, however, con­tinued under the Persian rule, and was a source ofgreat prosperity. (Herod, i. 14, 25, 51, &c.) Intheir manners the Lydians differed but little fromthe Greeks, though their civilisation was inferior, asis manifest from the fact of their daughters gene­rally gaining their dowries by public prostitution,without thereby injuring their reputation. (Herod,i. 93.) The moral character of the Lydian womennecessarily suffered from such a custom, and itcannot be matter of surprise that ancient Greek au­thors speak of them with contempt. (Strab. xi.p. 533, xiii. p. 627.) Aa to the religion of theLydians we know very little: their chief divinityappears to have been Cybele, but they also wor­shipped Artemis and Bacchus (Athen. xiv. p. 636;Dionys. Perieg. 842). and the phallus worship beemgto have been universal, whence we still find enormousphalli on nearly all the Lydian tombs. (Hamilton'sItejiearches, vol. 1. p. 145.) The Lydians are saidto have been the first to establish inns for travellers,and to coin money. (Herod, i. 94.) The Lydiancoins display Greek art in its highest perfection;they have no inscriptions, but are only adorned withthe figure of a lion, which was the talisman ofSardes. We do not know that the Lydians had anyalphabet or literature of their own: the want ofthese things can scarcely have been felt, for thepeople must at an early period have become familiarwith the language aud literature of their Greekneighbours. 4. History.—The Greeks possessed several workson the history of Lydia, and one of them was theproduction of Xanthus, a native of Sardes, the capitalof Lydia; but all have perished with the exceptionof a few insignificant fragments. If we had thework of Xanthus, we should no doubt be well in­formed on various points on which we can now onlyform conjectures. As it is, we owe nearly all ourknowledge of Lydian history to Herodotus. Ac­cording to him (i. 7) Lydia was successively governedby three dynasties. The first began with Lydus,the son of Atys, but the number of its kings is notmentioned. The second dynasty was that of theHeracleidae, beginning with Agron, and ending withCandaules, whom the Greeks called Myrsilus. Thecommencement of theHeraeleid dynasty may be datedabout B. c. 1200; they are connected in the legendin Herodotus with the founder of Xineveh, which,according to Xiebuhr, means either that they wereactually descended from an Assyrian family, or thatthe Heracleid dynasty submitted to the supremacyof the king of Xineveh, and thus connected itselfwith the race of Xinus and Belus. The Heracleidsmaintained themselves on the throne of Lydia, inunbroken succession, for a jieriod of 505 years. Thethird d; nasty, or that of the Mcrmnadae, probablythe first really Lydian rulers, commenced theirreign, according to some, in B.C. 713 or 716, andaccording to Eusebius,twemv-twoyears later. Gyges, <J 3'