OCR Output C. III.] GALILEE. 13 Tyrians from it; its length is also from Mcloth to Thella, avillage near to Jordan. 2. These two Galilees, of so great largeness, and encom­passed with so many nations of foreigners, have been alwaysable to make a strong resistance on all occasions of war; forthe Galileans are inured to war from their infancy, and havebeen always very numerous; nor hath the country been everdestitute of men of courage, or wanted a numerous set ofthem : for their soil is universally rich and fruitful, and fullof the plantations of trees of all sorts, insomuch that it in­vites the most slothful to take pains in its cultivation by itsfruitfulness : accordingly, it is all cultivated by its inhabit­ants, and no part of it lies idle. Moreover, the cities lie herovery thick, and the very many villages there are here areevery where so full of people, by the richness of their soil,that the very least of them contained above fifteen thousandinhabitants. 3. In short, if any one will suppose that Galilee is inferiorto Perea in magnitude, he will be obliged to prefer it beforeit in its strength; for this is all capable of cultivation, and isevery where fruitful; but for Perea, which is, indeed, muchlarger in extent, the greater part of it is desert and rough,and much less disposed for the production of the milder kindsof fruits; yet hath it a moist soil [in other parts,] and pro­duces all kinds of fruits, and its plains are planted with treesof all sorts, while yet the olive-tree, the vine, and the palm-trees, are chiefly cultivated there. It is also suflicientlywatered with torrents, which issue out of the mountains, andwith springs that never fail to run, even when the torrentsfail them, as they do in the dog-days. Now the length ofPerea is from Macherus to Pella, and its breadth from Phila­delphia to Jordan : its northern parts are bounded by Pella,as we have already said, as well as its western with Jordan;the land of Moab is its southern border, and its easternlimits reach to Arabia and Silbonitis, and besides to Phila-dclphene and Gcrasa. 4. Now as to the country of Samaria, it lies between Judeaand Galilee: it begins at a village that is in the great plain IV. —2