OCR Output 330 DECLINE.A=Nl> FALL [CHAP. XLIVi the idiom and manners of the Romans, rendered thestyle of the twelve tables less familiar to each rising ge-ineration, and the doubtful passages were imperfectly ex­plained by the study of legal antiquarians. ' To define theambiguities, to circumscribe the latitude, to apply theprinciples, to extend the consequences, to reconcile thereal or apparent contradictions, was a much nobler andmore important task; and the province of legislationwas silently invaded by the expounders of aneient sta­tutes. Their subtle interpretations concurred with theequity of the prastor, to reform the tyranny of the darkerages: however strange or intricate the means, it was theaim of artificial jurisprudence to restore the simple die-"tates of nature and reason, and the skill of private citizenswas usefully employed to undermine the public instiiu-ftions of their country. The revolution of almost onethousand years, from the twelve tables to the reign ofJustinian, may be divided into three periods almost equalin duration, and distinguished from each other by themode of instruction and the character of the civilians.8Pride and ignorance contributed, during the first period,to confine within narrow limits the science of the RomanThe first law. On the public days of market or assembly, thea^ilc. masters of the art were seen walking in the Forum, ready303—648. tG impart the needful advice to the meanest of their fehlow-citizens, from whose votes, on a future occasion, theymight solicit a grateful return. As their years and ho-;nours increased, they seated themselves at home on achair or throne, to expect with patient gravity the visits B The series of the civil lawyers is deduced by Pomponins. (de Origine Juris Pan^dect. lib. 1. tit. 2.) The moderns have discussed, with learning and criticism, thisbranch of literary history; and among these I have chiefly been guided by Gravina,(p. 41—79.) and Hoineccius. (Hist. J. R. no. 113—351.) Cicero, more especiallyin his books de Oratore, de Claris Oratoribus, de Legibus, and the Clavis Ciceroniannaof-Ernesti, (under the names of Mucius, &c.) afford much genuine and pleasing-In­formation. Horace often alludes to the morning labours of the civilians. (Serm. 1. 1.'10. Epist. 2. 4. 103, &c. Agricolam landat juris legumque peritus «Sub galli cautum, consultor uhi ostia pulsat. Roman dulce diu fuit et solemne, reelo'sa •' Mane domo vigilare, clienti promere jura. •'