OCR Output 20 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Roman dominions; the system of tenths and the middle­men were there unknown; the population was numerous,and the country was rich in corn and cattle.The Pro- Far more insupportable was the condition—intermediate tected between formal sovereignty and actual subjection—of thebtates. African, Greek, and Asiatic states that were brought withinthe sphere of Roman hegemony through the wars of Romewith Carthage, Macedon, and Syria, and their consequences.An independent state does not pay too dear for its independ­ence in accepting the sufferings of war when it cannot avoidthem ; a state which has lost independence may find at leastsome compensation in the fact that its protector securesfor it peace with its neighbours. But these client statesof Rome had neither independence nor peace. In Africathere practically subsisted a perpetual border-war betweenCarthage and Numidia. In Egypt Roman arbitration hadsettled the dispute as to the succession between the twobrothers Ptolemy Philometor and Ptolemy the Fat;nevertheless the new rulers of Egypt and Cyrene wagedwar for the possession of Cyprus. In Asia not only weremost of the kingdoms—Bithynia, Cappadocia, Syria,—like­wise torn by internal quarrels as to the succession and bythe interventions of neighbouring states to which thesequarrels gave rise, but various and severe wars were carriedon between the Attalids and the Galatians, between theAttalids and the kings of Bithynia, and even betweenRhodes and Crete. In Hellas Proper, in like manner, thepigmy feuds which were customary there continued tosmoulder; and even Macedonia, formerly so tranquil, con­sumed its strength in the intestine strife that arose out ofits new democratic constitution. It was the fault of therulers as well as the ruled, that the last vital energies andthe last prosperity of the nations were expended in theseaimless feuds. The client states ought to have perceivedthat a state which cannot wage war against every one cannotwage war at all, and that, as the position and power enjoyedby all these states were practically under Roman guarantee,they had in the event of any difference no alternative butto settle the matter amicably with their neighbours or tocajl in the Romans as arbiters. When the Achaean diet wasurged by the Rhodians and Cretans to grant them the aid of153. the league, and seriously deliberated as to sending it (601), itwas simply a political farce; the principle which the leader of