OCR Output 214: THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. not a footing sufficiently firm singly to maintain the coloniallaw which he had himself called in question and to possesshimself of the position which it assigned to him, nor wereSaturninus and Glaucia in a condition to continue on theirown account the work which Marius had begun.Saturninus But the two demagogues were so compromised that theyisolated. could not recede ; they had no alternative save to resign theiroffices in the usual way and thereby to deliver themselveswith their hands bound to their exasperated opponents, ornow to grasp the sceptre for themselves, although they feltthat they could not bear its weight. They resolved on thelatter course; Saturninus would come forward once more as99. a candidate for the tribunate of the people for 655, Glaucia,although praetor and not eligible for the consulship till twoyears had elapsed, would become a candidate for the latter.In fact the tribunician elections were decided thoroughly totheir mind, and the attempt of Marius to prevent the spuriousTiberius Gracchus from soliciting the tribuneship served onlyto show the celebrated man what was now the worth of hispopularity; the multitude broke the doors of the prison inwhich Gracchus was confined, bore him in triumph throughthe streets, and elected him by a great majority as theirtribune. Saturninus and Glaucia sought to control the moreimportant consular election by the expedient for the removalof inconvenient competitors which had been tried in the pre­vious year; the counter-candidate of the government-party,Gaius Memmius—the same who eleven years before had ledthe opposition against them (P. 150)—was suddenly assailedSaturninus by a band of ruffians and beaten to death. But the govern-assailed, ment-party had only waited for a striking event of this sortin order to employ force. The senate required the consulGaius Marius to interfere, and the latter in reality professedhis readiness now to draw in behalf of the conservative partythe sword, which he had obtained from the democracy andhad promised to wield in its favour. The young men werehastily called out, equipped with arms from the public build­ings, and drawn up in military array; the senate itself ap­peared under arms in the Forum, with its venerable chiefMarcus Scaurus at its head. The opposite party were per­haps superior in a street-tumult, but were not preparedfor such an attack; they had to defend themselves as theycould. They broke open the doors of the prisons, and calledthe slaves to liberty and to arms; they proclaimed—so it