OCR Output Chap. XV. WARS or THE JEWS. 2Q3 his forces increased every day as he went along, and all Galileewith few exceptions joined themselves to him. So he proposedto himself to set about his most necessary enterprise, and thatwas Masada, in order to deliver his relations from the siege theyendured. But still Joppa stood in his way, and hindered his go足ing thither; for it was necessary to take that city first, whichwas in the enemies hands, that when he should go to Jerusalem,no fortress'might be left in the enemies' power behind him. Siloalso willingly joined him, as having now a plausible occasionof drawing off his forces [from Jerusalem]; and when the Jewspursued him and pressed upon him, [in his retreat], Herod madean excursion upon then with a small body of his men, and soonput them to flight, and saved Silo when he was in distress. 4. After this Herod took Joppa, and then made haste to Masa足da to free his relations. Now as he was marching, many camein to him, induced some by their friendship to his father, someby the reputation he had already gained himself, and some in^rder to repay the benefits they had received from them both;but still what engaged the greatest number on his side, was thehopes from him, when he should be established in his kingdom ;so that he had gotten together already an army hard to be con足quered. But Antigonus laid an ambush for him as he marchedout, in which he did little or no harm to his enemies. However,he easily recovered his relations again that were in Masada, aswell as the fortress Ressa, and then marched to Jerusalem, wherethe soldiers that were with Silo joined themselves to his own,as did many out of the city, from a dread of his power. 5. Now when he had pitched his camp on the west side of thecity, the guards that were there shot their arrows, and.threwtheir darts at them, while others ran out in companies, and at足tacked those in the forefront; but Herod commanded procla mation'to be made at the wall, that " he was come for the good of the" people and the preservation of the city, without any design to" be revenged on his open enemies,but to grant oblivion to them," though they had been the most obstinate against him." Nowthe soldiers that were for Antigonus made a contrary clamour,and did neither permit any body to hear that proclamation, norto change their party; so Antigonus gave order to his forcesto beat the enemy from the walls; accordingly, they soon threwtheir darts at them from the towers, and put them to flight. 6. Andhere it wasthatSilo discovered hehad taken bribes; forhe set many of the soldiers to clamour about their want of ntces-saries, and to require their pay, in order to buy themselves food,and to demand that he would lead them into places convenientfortheir winter quarters; because all the parts about the city were