OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 861 burial. On landing in Italy he had earnestly offered toforgive and to forget, and no one who came to make hispeace had been rejected. Even after the first successes hehad negotiated in this spirit with Lucius Scipio; it was therevolutionary party, which had not only broken off thesenegotiations, but had subsequently, at the last moment be­fore their downfall, resumed the massacres afresh and morefearfully than ever, and had in fact conspired with the oldenemies of their country for the destruction of the city ofBome. The cup was now full. By virtue of his newofficial authority Sulla, immediately after assuming theregency, outlawed as enemies of their country all the civiland military officers who had taken an active part in favourof the revolution after the convention with Scipio whichaccording to Sulla's assertion was validly concluded, andsuch of the other burgesses as had in any marked way aidedits cause. Whoever killed one of these outlaws was notonly exempt from punishment like an executioner dulyfulfilling his office, but also obtained for the execution acompensation of 12,000 denarii (£488); any one on thecontrary who befriended an outlaw, even the nearest rela­tive, was liable to the severest penalty. The property ofthe proscribed was forfeited to the state like the spoil ofan enemy; their children and grandchildren were excludedfrom a political career, and yet, so far as they were of sena­torial rank, were bound to undertake their share of senatorialburdens. The last enactments also applied to the estatesand the descendants of those who had fallen in conflict forthe revolution—penalties, which went even beyond those en­joined by the earliest law in the case of such as had borne armsagainst their fatherland. The most terrible feature in thissystem of terror was the indefiniteness of the proposed cate­gories, against which there was immediate remonstrance inthe senate, and which Sulla himself sought to remedy bydirecting the names of the proscribed to be publicly postedup and fixing the 1st June 673 as the final term for closing 81.the lists of proscription. Much as this bloody roll, swelling from day to day and Prosciip-amounting at last to 4700 names,* excited the just horror of tlon-liiu.the multitude, it at any rate checked in some degree the * This total is given by Valerius Maximus, ix. 2, 1. According to Appian(B. C. i. 95), there were proscribed by Sulla nearly 40 senators, whichnumber subsequently received some additions, and about 1600 equites; ac­