OCR Output TITRACIA. THKACIA. 1187 crapoJoas monarch at once began his career ofirrrrarrjisement towards the east. He contrivod torf. possession of Amphipolis (b. c 358), and thusStained a secure footing from which he might ex-f-ij his dominions in Thrace as opportunity offered.Ki this time there were three native Thracian princes,/rutubljr brothers, who seem to have mled over mostI lbs country. According to Justin (viii. 3), Be­anies and Amadocua, two of them, chose Philip aslift of their disputes; of which position he trea-iierwuly availed himself to seize upon their domi-t-tm. Though this statement is not supported, we•turn, by any other ancient author, yet it is pro-n'jlr true; for such conduct is highly characteristicf the Macedonian monarch; and the almost entireappearance from history of these Thracian princesun after Philip's accession, would thus be ac-Jinted for. Ceraobleptes, the third brother, whoran to bare had the £. portion of Thrace,a long struggle against his ambitiousIn n. c. 357 lie ceded the Cherso-ms to the Athenians, who sent a colony toxupy it four years afterwards. [See Cerso-urm, Vict. Biog. Vol. I. p. 674: Sestus.]> .up it Tarioas times marched into Thrace, andj<a:<iily defeated Ceraobleptes, whom he at length«. c. 343) completely subdued and rendered tribu-■n. Nut year he established colonies in the east-n part of Thrace, and acts of hostility occurredi'.*«n him and Diopeithes, the Athenian commanderthat quarter. Philip was occupied the next three■n in Thrace, and laid siege to Perinthus andjuntinm, which were in alliance with Athens,forces, commanded by Phocion,compelled Philipthe sieges; and lie soon afterwards lefturic, to advance towards the south against theufodrrate Greeks. On bis departure Phocion re­vered several of the cities in which Macedonianirruona bad been placed. Notwithstanding these checks, Philip bad brought |•ir his command a great part of Thrace, especiallythe south coast I he had, above all, completely in­fested with his kingdom the district between- .Strymon and the Kestua, and from the mines of« rangaeus, which he seized in B. c. 356, he ob- |■wd abundant supplies of the precious metals.I'hilip wss assassinated H. c. 336: next year his":cmut, Alexander the Great, marched across thejnas to attack the Triballi; but his chief atten-a was bestowed upon the preparations for the-itic expedition, which he entered upon next year,*»rijr the Hellespont from Sestus.Ob the death of Alexander (u. c. 323), Thraceto Lysimachus, who was soon involvedwith Seutbes, a king of the Odrysae.« reader is referred to Uie account of Lysimachushtt Biog. VoL II. pp.867—870] for details respect-; hu government of Thrace: the result of his variousn was that his sway was 6rmly established overthe countries south of the Danube, as far as tbe■ Sees of Macedonia; the Greek cities on theixioe were garrisoned by his troops; and thoughfly of the native tribes, in the more inaccessibletnets, no donbt retained their freedom, yet he; cittipletely defeated all their attacks upon hism. In u. c 309 he founded Lysimachia, nearaorthern extremity of the Cbersonesus and madebis capital. Having engaged in a war with Se­em, the ruler of Syria, he advanced to meet hisnist in Asia, and was defeated and slain at(b. c. 281), upon which Seleucus passed over into Europe and took possession of Thrace.Next year, however, he was assassinated by PtolemyCeraunus, who was thereupon acknowledged king;but shortly afterwards a vast horde of Celts invadedthe country, and Ptolemy was slain in a battle withthem. Anarchy now prevailed for some years in thecountry: the Celts again advanced to the south inB. c 279, and under Brennus penetrated as fur asDelphi, on their repulse from which they retreatednorthwards, and some of them settled on the coastof Thrace. For nearly fifty years after this time little mentionis made of Thrace in history; it appears to havebeen annexed to Macedonia; but the rulers of thatkingdom were too insecure, even in their central do­minions, to be able to exercise much control oversnch a country as Thrace, inhabited now by racesdiffering so widely as the Thracians, the Greeks, andthe Celts, and offering so many temptations to theassertion of independence. [See Artioorus Gora-tas, Demetrius II., and Pyhruus, in Diet. Biog.'] About b.c. 247, the fleet of Ptolemy Euergeteacaptured Lysimachia and other important cities onthe coast; and they remained for nearly half a cen­tury under the kings of Egypt. (Polyb. v. 34, 58.) In B. c. 220, Philip V. ascended the throne ofMacedonia. Under him the Macedonian power re­gained something of its old prestige; and had it notbeen brought in collision with Rome, it might havebecome as extensive as in former times. But Philipunfortunately directed his ambitious views in thefirst instance towards the West, and thus soon en­countered the jealous Republic. It was not till B.C.211 that Philip commenced his enterprises againstThrace: he then led an army into tbe country of tbeM&etli, who were in the habit of making incursionsinto Macedonia. Their lands were laid waste, andtheir capital, lamphorina, compelled to surrender.Having made peace with the Romans (n. c. 205), heinvaded Thrace, and took Lysimachia. In B.C. 200,be again attacked that country, both by sea andland; and it is evident that he did not anticipatemuch resistance, since he took with him only 2000infantry and 200 cavalry. Yet with this insignifi­cant force, aided by the fleet, he made himselfmaster of the whole of the south coast, and of theChersonesus. lie then laid siege to Abydoe, andafter a desperate resistance took it (Liv. xxxi. 16).This seems to hsve hastened the declaration of waron the part of the Romans ; a war which lasted tillB.C. 196, when Philip was reduced to procure peaceby surrendering all his conquests, and withdrawinghis garrisons from the Greek cities (Liv. xxxiii. 30).L. Stertinius was sent to see that these terms werecomplied with (ii. 35). But scarcely bad the citiesbeen evacuated by the Macedonian garrisons, whenAntiochus tbe Great crossed the Hellespont, andtook possession of the Chersonesus, which he claimedas a conquest of Seleucus (to. 38). He refused tocomply with the demand of the Romans, that beshould withdraw his army from Europe ; but lefthis son Seleucus to complete the restoration ofLysimachia, and to extend his influence, which seemsto have been done by placing garrisons in Maroneiaand Aenus. In the war which ensued between the Romans andAntiochus (b. c 190), Philip rendered the formergood service, by providing everything necessary fortheir march through Thrace, and securing them from by the native tribes (Liv. xxxvii. 7).Antiochus was defeated by Scipio at Magnesia, and 4 e a