OCR Output MYTILENE. MYTISTKATUS. 391 The first passage in which the history of Mvtilenecomes prominently into view is in the struggle be­tween the Aeolians and Athenians for Sigeum (b.c.606), at the NW. comer of Asia Minor. The placeand the time are both remarkable,, as illustrating theearly vigour with which Mytilene was exercising itsmaritime and political power. We see it alreadygrasping considerable possessions on the mainland.It was in this conflict, too, Hut Pittacus, the sageand lawgiver of Mytilene, acted so noble a part, andth.it Abacus. Iter great poet, lost his shield. Thetreutiou at these two names reminds us that thistime «f rivalry with Athens coincides with thefamous internal contests of the nobles and commonsin Mvtilene. For the history and results of thisstruggle, see the lives of AsXABUB, Pittacus, andSappho, in the Did. of Biography. It may be difficult to disentangle the history ofthe Xlytilenaeans frum that of the Aeoliaiis in ge­tters!, during the period of the Persian ascendancyon these coasts. But we have a proof of their mer­cantile enterprise in the fact that they alone of theAeuiians took part in the building of the Helleniumat Naocratis (Herod, ii. 178); and we find themtaking a prominent port in the invasion of Egypt byCarabyses, (lb. iii. 13, 14.) They supplied a con­tingent to Darius in his Scythian expedition (lb. iv.97). They were closely connected with the affairsof Histiaeus (lb. vi. 5); and doubtless, though theyare not separately mentioned, they were the bestportion of those Aeolians who supplied sixty ships toXerxes in bis invasion of Greece. (lb. vii. 95.) The period of the Athenian supremacy and thePeloponnesian War is full of the tame of Mytilene.The alliance of its citizens with those of Athensbegan soon after the final repulse of Persia. They helda very distinguished position among the allies whichformed the Athenian confederacy; but their revoltfrom Athens in the fourth year of the PeloponncsianWar brought upon them the most terrible ruin.Though the first dreadful decision of the Athenianassembly was overruled (Thucyd. iii. 36), the walls ofMytilene were pulled down, and her fleet given up;ber territory was divided among Athenian share­holders, and she was deprived of her possessions andfurts on the mainland..(lb. iii. 50.) Towards the close of the Peloponncsian War, Cononwas defeated by Callicratidasotf Mytilene, and block­aded in the luurbour. (Xen. /Jell. i. C.) We pass nowto the period of Alexander, with whose campaigns thiscity was conspicuously connected. The Lesbians madea treaty with Macedonia. Menmon reduced theother cities of the island; and his death, which in­flicted the last blow on the Persian power in theAegean, took place in the moment of victory againstMyulene. It was retaken by Hcgesilochus, in thecourse of his general reduction of the islands, andreceTed a large accession of territory. Two Myti-Imaeans, Laomedon and Erigy ius, the sons of Larichus,were distinguished members of Alexander's start'.Tbe latter fell in action against the liactrians; thefarmer was governor of .Syria even after Alexander'soVath. The first experience of the Roman power in theAegean was disastrous to Mytilene. Having espousedthe cause of Mithridates, and having held out to thelast, it was sacked by M. Thermits, on which oc­casion J. Caesar honourably distinguished himself.1'umpey's friendship with Theophanes led to tberecognition of Mytilene as a free city. (Plin. v. 31.)After the defeat of Pharsalia, Pouipey touched there for the last time to take Cornelia on board. His son6exJ.ua met with a friendly reception there, after hisdefeat at sea, by Agrippa. (Diun Cass. xlix. 17;App. B. C. v. 133.) Agrippa himself resided therefor some time in retirement, ostensibly on account ofhis health, but really through mortification causedby the preference shown to M. Marcellus (Tac. Ann.xiv. 53; Suet. Aug. 66, Tib. 10); and this resi­dence is commemorated by an inscription stillextant. (See Pococke.) The last event which weneed mention in the imperial period is the crossingover of Germanicus with Agrippina from Euboca |oLesbos, and the birth of Julia. (Tac. Ann. ii. 54.)This event, also, was commemorated both by coinsand inscriptions. (See Kckhel and Pococke.) Itappears that the privilege of freedom was takenaway by Vespasian, but restored by Hadrian.(Plehn, Lesbiac. p. 83.) Mytilene is one of the few cities of the Aegean,which have continued without intermission to flourishtill the present day. In the course of the middleages it gradually gave its name to the whole island.Thus, in the Mnecdemus of Ilietocles, MrruMfvi]and MtAJfUW are both mentioned under the Pro­vince of the Islands; but in the later Byzantinedivision, Mytilene is spoken of as an island, likeLemooe and Chios, in the Theme of the Aegean Sea.(Const. Porpbyxog, de Them. i. pp. 42,43, ed. Bonn.)The fortunes of Mytilene during the first advancesof the Mahometans in the Levant, and during theascendancy of the Venetians at a later period, arenoticed in Finlay's History of the Byzantine andGreek Kmpiresy vol. ii. pp. 72, 171, 223. Theisland of Lesbos was not actually part of the Ma-homedan empire till nearly ten years after thefall of Constantinople. With tlie exception of the early struggles of thetime of Alcaeus and Pittacus, there is little to besaid of the internal constitutional history of Mytilene.It shared, with all Greek cities, the results of thostruggles of the oligarchical and democratical parties.We find a commonalty (Sauos) and a council (#<iAAa)mentioned on coins of the period of Alexander; andthe title of magistrates, called ffTpar7iy6s (praetor),appears on coins of Lucius Verus. In connectionwith this part of the subject we may allude to twocreditable laws; one which enacted (doubtless inconsequence of the great quantity of wine in thoisland) that offences committed by the drunk shouldbe more severely punished than those committed bythe sober (Arist. Pol. ii. 9. 9); the other makinga singular provision for the punishment of faithless­ness in tributary allies, by depriving them of theprivilege of educating their children. (Aelian, Far.Hut. vii. 15.) [J. S. H.] COIN OK MVTILENE. MYTI'STRATUS (Mvriarparos, Step*. B.,Diod.; Moi/Tfo*TpaTOi, Zonar.; to Muttbrrporer,Pol.: Eth, Mutustratimis, Plin.), a town in the inte­rior of Sicily, the position of which is wholly uncer- c c 4