OCR Output CHAP. LI. 375 and the camp of Medina was successively filled with theintrepid bands of the Saracens, who panted for action,complained of the heat of the season, and the scarcity ofprovisions; and accused with impatient murmurs thedelays of the caliph. As soon as their numbers werecomplete, Abubeker ascended the hiH, reviewed the men,the horses, and the arms, and poured forth a ferventprayer for the success of their undertaking. In personand on foot, he accompanied the first day's march; andwhen the blushing leaders attempted to dismount, thecaliph removed their scruples by a declaration, that thosewho rode, and those who walked, in the service of reli­gion, were equally meritorious. His instructions7 to thechiefs of the Syrian army, were inspired by the warlikefanaticism which advances to seize, and affects to despise,the objects of worldly ambition. Remember (said thesuccessor of the prophet) that you are always in the pre­sence of God, on the verge of death, in the assurance ofjudgment, and the hope of paradise. Avoid injustice andoppression; consult with your brethren, and study to pre­serve the love and confidence of your troops. When youfight the battles of the Lord, acquit yourselves like men,without turning your back; but let not your victory bestained with the blood of women or children. Destroy nopalm-trees, nor burn any fields of corn. Cut down nofruit-trees, nor do any mischief to cattle, only such asyou kill to eat. When you make any covenant or article,stand to it, and be as good as your word. As you go on,you will find some religious persons who live retired in mo­nasteries, and propose to themselves to serve God thatway: let them alone, and neither kill them nor destroytheir monasteries ? and you will find another sort of people J The instructions, &c. of the Syrian war, are described by Al Wakidi and Ock-ley, torn. 1. p. 22—27, &c. In the sequel it is necessary to contract, and needlessto quote, their circumstantial narrativi-:. My obligations to others shall be noticed.'Notwithstanding this precept, M.Pauw (Kecherch.es $ur les Egyptiens, torn. 2.p. 192. edit. Lausanne) represents the Bedoweens sis the implacable enemies ofthe Christian monks. For my own part I am more inclined to suspect.the avariceof the Arabian robbe», and the .prejudices of i he German philosopher.