OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 69 no innovations against him. The like to what HeroJ did wasdone by his son Archelaus, who was made king after him ; afterwhom the Romans, when they entered on the government, tookpossession of these vestments of the high-priest, and had themreposited in a stone-chamber, under the seal of the priests, andof the keepers of the temple, the captain of the guard lighting alamp there every day ; and * seven days before a festival theywere delivered to them by the captain of the guard, when thehigh-priest having purified them, and made use of them, laidthem up again in the same chamber where they had been laidup before, and this the very next day after the feast was over.This was the practice at the three yearly festivals, and' on thefast-day ; but Vitellius put these garments into our own power,as in the days of our forefathers, and ordered the captain of theguard not to trouble himself to inquire where they were laid,or when they were to be used ; and this he did as an act of kind­ness, to oblige the nation to him. Besides which, he also depri­ved Joseph, who was also called Caiapbas, of the high-priest­hood, and appointed Jonathan, the son of Ananus, the formerhigh-priest, to succeed him. After which, he took his journeyback to Antioch. 4. Moreover, Tiberius sent a letter to Vitellius, and com­manded him to make a league of friendship with Artabanus, theking of Parthia ; for, while he was his enemy, he terrified him,because he had taken Armenia away from him, lest he shouldproceed farther, and told him he should no otherwise trusthim than upon his giving him hostages, and especially hisfon Artabauus. Upon Tiberius's writing thus to Vitellius,by the offer of great presents of money, he persuaded both theking of Iberia, and the king of Albania, to make no delay, but tofight against Artabanus ; and although they would not do it them­selves, yet did they give the Scythians a passage through theircountry, and opened the Caspian gates to them, and brought themupon Artabanus. So Armenia was again taken from the Parthi-ans, and the country of Parthia was filled with war, and the prin­cipal of their men were slain, and all these things were in disorderamong them : the king's son also himself fell in these wars,together with many ten thousands of his army. Vitellius hadalso sent such greac sums of money to Artabanus's father's kins­men and friends, that he had almost procured him to be slain by the * This mention of the high priest's sacred garments received seven days be'fore a festival, and purified in those days against a festival, as having been pol­luted by being in the custody- of heathens, in Josephus, agrees well with thetraditions of Talmudists, as Reland here observes. Nor is there any question butthe three feasts here mentioned, were the Passover, Pentecost, and Feast of Ta­bernacles ; and the Fust, so called by way of distinction, as Acts, xxvii. y. watthe great day of expiation.