OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 377 relating the acts of this king, he describes to us, — " How hesent his son Nabuchodonosor against Egypt, and against ourland, with a great army, upon his being informed that theyhad revolted from him; and how, by that means, he subduedthem all, and set our temple that was at Jerusalem on fire;nay, and removed our people entirely out of their own country,and transferred them to Babylon; when it so happened thatour city was desolate during the interval of seventy years,until the days of Cyrus king of Persia." He then says that" this Babylonian king conquered Egypt, and Syria, andPhoenicia, and Arabia, and exceeded in his exploits all thathad reigned before him in Babylon and Chalden." A littleafter which Berosus subjoins what follows in his history ofancient times : I will set down Berosus's own accounts, whichare these. — " When Nabolassar, father of Nabuchodonosor,heard that the governor whom he had set over Egypt, andover the parts of Celosyria and Phoenicia had revolted fromhim, he was not able to hear it any longer, but committingcertain parts of his army to his son Nabuchodonosor, who wasthen but young, he sent him against the rebel: Nabuchodo­nosor joined battle with him, and conquered him, and reducedthe country under his dominion again. Now, it so fell outthat his father Nabolassar fell into a distemper at this time,and died in the city of Babylon, after he had reigned twenty-nine years. But as he understood, in a little time, that hisfather Nabolassar was dead, he set the affairs of Egypt andthe other countries in order, and committed the captives hehad taken from the Jews, and Phoenicians, and Syrians, andof the nations belonging to Egypt, to some of his friends, thatthey might conduct that part of the forces that had on heavyarmor, with the rest of his baggage to Babylonia, while hewent in haste, having but a few with him, over the desert toBabylon, whither, when he was come, he found the publicaffairs had been managed by the Chaldeans, and that theprincipal person among them had preserved the kingdom forhim. Accordingly, he now entirely obtained all his father'sdominions. He then came and ordered the captives to beplaced as colonies in the most proper places of Babylonia: 32*