OCR Output 228 uvy. to gratify Scipio, who was then the ohject of universalfavor among all the members of the state. Thereforethither were sent not only from Sardinia, as was men­tioned before, but from Sicily also, and Spain, cloth­ing, corn, and arms, with every other kind of stores;while Scipio relaxed not his diligence during any partof the winter in the operations of war, for which hefound abundant occasion on every side. He was en­gaged in the siege of Utica; Hasdrubal's camp waswithin sight; the Carthaginians had launched theirships, and kept their ffeet equipped, and in readinessto intercept his convoys. Amidst so many objectswhich required his attention, he did not neglect en­deavoring to recover the friendship of Syphax; hopingthat he might now perhaps be cloyed with love in thefull enjoyment of his bride. The answers of Syphaxcontained, chiefly, proposals for an accommodationwith the Carthaginians on the terms of the Romans re­tiring from Africa, and the Carthaginians from Italy;but afforded scarcely any hopes that he would relin­quish his present engagements. I am more inclined tobelieve that this business was transacted by messen­gers, as most authors affirm, than that Syphax came inperson to the Roman camp to a conference, as AntiusValerius writes. At first, the Roman general hardlypermitted those terms to be mentioned by his people;but afterwards, in order that they might have a plau­sible pretext for going frequently into the enemy'scamp, he softened his refusals, even seemingly in­clining to a negotiation. The winter huts of the Car­thaginians were composed almost intirely of timber,which they had hastily collected from the fields: thoseof the Numidians were formed of reeds interwoven,and most of them covered with mats, and dispersed upand down without any regularity, some of them evenon the outside of the trench and rampart, for theywere left to choose their own ground. These circum­stances being related to Scipio, gave him hopes thathe might find au opportunity of burning the enemy'scamp.