OCR Output 42 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. to Caius Citronius, who commanded the first legion.By that officer'the delinquents were brought to im­mediate justice. The form of proceeding was as fol­lows: The legions under arms were ranged round thetribunal: the criminal was set up to public view; ifthe general voice pronounced him guilty, he wasthrown headlong down, and put to instant death. Inthis mode of punishment the soldier concurred withardour; by shedding the blood of others, he thoughthis own guilt was expiated. The measure, howeverviolent, received no check from Germanicus. Whatwas done had no sanction from his orders. Thecruelty began with the soldiers, and by consequencecould be imputed to no one else. The veterans fol­lowed the example, and in a few days afterwards wereordered to march into Rhsetia, under colour of defend­ing the province from the inroads of the Suevians;but in truth, to remove them from a camp pollutedby rebellion, and in the end made savage by the hor­ror of military execution. A strict review of the cen­turions was the first care of Germanicus. They weroall cited before him; each in person gave in his name,his rank, the place of his birth, ^he length of his ser­vices, the actions in which he had distinguished him­self, and the military honours which he had obtained.If the tribunes, or the legion in general, reported inhis favour, he preserved his station; if taxed by thegeneral voice with avarice or cruelty, he was dis­charged from the service. XLV. Order and tranquillity were in this mannerrestored; but at the distance of sixty miles, at a placecalled Vetera, riot and disorder still subsisted. Thefifth and twenty-first legions were there in winterquarters. In the late commotions these men werothe first and most active incendiaries. The worst andblackest crimes were by them committed; and now,when the storm was in appeurance over, they still re­tained their former ferocity, unreclaimed by the peni­tence of others, and undismayed by the fate of thosewho had suffered death. To meet this new alarm,Germanicus resolved to equip his fleet, and with the