OCR Output 24 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. VIII. OF ABRAM S DEPARTURE INTO EGYPT IN CONSEQUENCE OF AFAMINE; AND OF HIS SUBSEQUENT RETURN. NOW after this, when a famine* had in­vaded the land of Canaan, and Abramhad discovered that the Egyptians were in aflourishing condition, he was disposed to godown to them; both to partake of the plentythey enjoyed, and to learn what their priestasserted concerning the gods: designingeither to follow them, if they had better no­tions than he; or to convert them into a bet­ter way, if his own notions proved the truest.Now as he was to take Sarai with him, andwas afraid of the madness of the Egyptianswith regard to women, lest the king shouldkill him on occasion of his wife's great beauty,he contrived this device: He pretendedto be her brother, and directed her in adissembling way to pretend the same: for hesaid, it would be for their benefit. Now assoon as they came into Egypt, it happened toAbram as he supposed. For the fame of hiswife's beauty was greatly talked of; for whichreason Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, would notbe satisfied with what was reported of her,but would needs see her himself. But Godput a stop to his unjust inclinations, by send­ing upon him a distemper, and a seditionagainst his government. And when he en­quired of his priests, how he might be freedfrom those calamities, they told him, that hismiserable condition was derived from thewrath of God, upon account of his inclinationto abuse the stranger's wife. He then, outof fear, asked Sarai, who she was, and whoit was that she had brought along with her?And when he had discovered the truth, heexcused himself to Abram, that supposing thewoman to be his sister, and not his wife, heset his affections on her, as desiring an affinitywith him by marrying her, but not as incitedby lust to abuse her. He also made him alarge present in money; and gave him leave toenter into conversation with the most learnedamong the Egyptians. From which conver­sation his virtue and reputation became moreconspicuous than they had been before.For whereas the Egyptians were formerly * Gen. xii. 10. **^ft t Gen. xiii. 7. addicted to different customs, and despisedeach others sacred and accustomed rites, andwere angry one with another on that account:Abram conferred with each of them, and con­futing the reasonings they made use of fortheir respective practices, he demonstratedthat such reasonings were vain, and void oftruth. Whereupon he was admired by themin those conferences as a very wise man, andone of great sagacity, when he discoursed onany subject he undertook; and this, not onlyin understanding it, but in persuading othermen also to assent to him. He communicatedto them arithmetic, and delivered to them thescience of astronomy. For before Abramcame into Egypt they were unacquaintedwith some parts of learning; for that sciencecame from the Chaldeans into Egypt, andfrom thence to the Greeks also. As soon as Abram returned into Canaan, heparted the land between him and Lot, uponaccount of the tumultous behaviour of theirshepherds,t concerning the pastures whereinthey should feed their flocks. However, hegave Lot his option, or leave to choose whichlands he would take; and he took, himself,what the other left; which were the lowergrounds at the foot of the mountains: and hehimself dwelt in Hebron, which is a city sevenyears ancienter than Tanis of Egypt.}: ButLot possessed the land of the plain and theriver Jordan, not far from the kingdom ofSodom: which was then a fine city, but is nowdestroyed, by the will and wrath of God; aswill be shewn in its proper place hereafter. CHAP. IX. OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SODOMITES BY THE ASSYRIANWAR. AT this time, when the Assyrians had thedominion over Asia, the people of Sodomwere in a flourishing condition; both as toriches and the number of their youth. Therewere five kings that managed the affairs ofthis country; Ballas, Barsas, Senabir, andSumobor, with the king of Bela; and eachking led on his own troops. And the Assyri­ans made war upon them, and dividing theirarmy into four parts, fought against them. J Numbers xiii. 22.