OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 251 Weakness It is in the fourteenth century, that we maytyc/the" view in the strongest light the state and con-emneior trast o^tae Roman empire of Germany, whichchariesiv. no longer held, except on the borders of the—1378. Rhine and Danube, a single province of Trajanor Constantine. Their unworthy successors were thecounts of Hapsburg, of Nassau, of Luxemburgh, and ofSchwartzenburg: the emperor Henry VII. procured forhis son the crown of Bohemia, and his grandsonCharles IV. was born among a people, strange andbarbarous in the estimation of the Germans themselves."1After the excommunication of Lewis of Bavaria, hereceived the gift or promise of the vacant empire fromthe Roman pontiffs, who, in the exile and captivity ofAvignon, affected the dominion of the earth. Thedeath of his competitors united the electoral college,and Charles was unanimously saluted king of the Ro­mans, and future emperor: a title which in the sameage was prostituted to the Caesars of Germany andGreece. The German emperor was no more than theelective and impotent magistrate of an aristocracy ofprinces, who had not left him a village that he might callhis own. His best prerogative was the right of presidingand proposing in the national senate, which was con­vened at his summons; and his native kingdom of Bo­hemia, less opulent than the adjacent city of Nurem-burg, was the firmest seat of his power and the richestsource of his revenue. The army -with which he author of the best legal and constitutional history that I know of any country.(Nouvel Abrege Chronologique de 1'Histoire et du Droit Public d'Allemagne,Paris, 1776, 2 vols. in 4to.) His learning and judgment have discerned the moatinteresting facts; his simple brevity comprises them in a narrow space; his chro­nological order distributes them under the proper dates; and an elaborate indexcollects them under their respective heads. To this work, in a less perfect state,Dr. Robertson was gratefully indebted for that masterly sketch which traces eventhe modem changes of the Germanic body. The Corpus Historia e Germanica e ofStruvius has been likewise consulted, the more usefully, as that huge compilationis fortified in every page with the original texts. "Yet personally, Charles IV. must not be considered as a barbarian. After hiseducation at Paris, he recovered the use of the Bohemian, his native, idiom; andthe emperor conversed and wrote with equal facility in French, Latin, Italian,and German. (Struvius, p. 613, 616.) Petrarch always represents him as a politeand learned prince.