OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 123 he said about it, he got the dispersed conspirators together; heprepared every thing after a prudent manner, and by suggestinggood advice, shewed himself far superior to the rest, and madeobliging speeches to them, insomuch that he even compelled themall to go on, who otherwise had not courage enough for that pur­pose ; and when opportunity served to use his sword in hand,he appeared first of all ready so to do, and gave the first blow inthis virtuous slaughter ; he also brought Caius easily into thepower of the rest, and almost killed him himself, insomuch thatit is but just to ascribe all that the rest did to the advice, and•bravery, and labours, of the hands of Cherea. 15. Thus did Caius come to his end, and lay dead, by themany wounds which had been given him. Now Cherea andhis associates, upon Caius's slaughter, saw that it was impos­sible for them to save themselves, if they should all go the same,way, partly on account of the astonishment they we.re under ;for it was no small danger they had incurred by killing an em­peror, who was honoured and loved by the madness of thepeople, especially when the soldiers were likely to make a bloodyinquiry after his murderers. f The passages also were narrowwherein the work was done, which were also crowded with agreat multitude of Csius's attendants, and of such of the soldiersas were of the emperor's guard that day ; whence it was thatthey went by other ways, and came to the house of Germani-cus, the father of Caius, whom they had now killed, (whichhouse adjoined to the palace ; for while the edifice was one, itwas built in its several parts by those particular persons whohad been emperors, and those parts bare the names of those thatbuilt them, or the name 01 him who had begun to build any ofits parts.) So they got away from ttie insults of the multitude,and then were for the present out of danger, that is, so long asthe misfortune which had overtaken the emperor was not known.The Germans were the first that perceived that Cams was slain.These Germans were Caius's guard, and carried the name of thecountry whence they were chosen, and composed the Celtic le­gion. The men of that country are naturally passionate, whichis commonly the temper of some other of the barbarous nationsalso, as being not used to consider much about what they do ;they are of robust bodies, and fall upon their enemies as soon asever they are attacked by them ; and which way soever they go,they perform great exploits. When, therefore, these Germanguards understood that Caius was slain, they were very sorryfor it, because they did not use their reason in judging aboutpublic affairs, but measured all by the advantages themselves re-teived, Ca'us being beloved by them, because of the money he