OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 73 mined republican; and the Romans who revered the memory ofBrutus 17, would applaud the imitation of his virtue. Cæsar hadprovoked his fate, as much by the ostentation of his power, as byhis power itself. The consul or the tribune might have reigned inpeace. The title of King had armed the Romans against his life.Augustus was sensible that mankind is governed by names, nor washe deceived in his expectation, that the senate and people wouldsubmit to flavery, provided they were respectfully assured, that theystill enjoyed their ancient freedom. A feeble senate and enervatedpeople cheerfully acquiesced in the pleasing illusion, as long as itwas supported by the virtue, or by even the prudence, of the suc­cessors of Augustus. It was a motive of self-preservation, not aprinciple of liberty, that animated the. conspirators against Cali­gula, Nero, and Domitian. They, attacked the person of thetyrant, without aiming their blow at the authority of the em­peror. . . There appears, indeed, one memorable occasion, in which the Attempt ofsenate, after seventy-years of patience, made an ineffectual attempt after theto reassume its long forgotten rights. When the throne was va- jjgui^.°f C*cant by the murder of Caligula, the consuls convoked that assembly,in the Capitol, condemned the memory of the Cæsars, gave thewatch word liberty to the few cohorts who faintly adhered to theirstandard, and during eight and forty hours, acted as the independ­ent chiefs of a free commonwealth. But while they deliberated,the prætorian guards had resolved. The stupid Claudius, brotherof Germanicus, was already in their camp, invested with the Im­perial purple, and prepared to support his election by arms. Thedream of liberty was at an end; and the senate awoke to all thehorrors of inevitable servitude. Deserted by the people, and threat­ened by a military force, that feeble assembly was compelled to ratifythe choice of the prætorians, and to embrace the benefit of an Vol. I. L amnesty,