OCR Output Chap. XI. ASTIO_UITIES or iht JEWS. "age, but exposed to one son, who hath very ill managed the"hopes thou hast given him, and to relations, whose ci jath thou"hast so often resolved on thyself? Dost not thou take notice,"that the very silence of the multitude at once sees the crime"and abhors the fact? The whole army and the officers have"commiseration on the poor unhappy youths, and hatred to"those that are the actors in this matter." These words theking heard, and for some lime with good temper. But whatcim one say? When Tero plainly touched upon the bad beha足viour and perfidiousness of his domestics, he was moved at it:but Tero went on farther, and by degrees used an unboundedmilitary freedom of speech, nor was he so well disciplined as toaccommodate himself to the time: So Herod was greatly dis足turbed, and seeming to be rather reproached by this speech,than to be hearing what was for his advantage, while he learnedhereby, that both the soldiers abhorred the thing he was about,and the officers had indignation at it, he gave orders that allwhom Tero had named, and Tero himself, should be boundand kept in prison. 6. When this was over, one Trypho, who was the king'sbarber, took the opportunity, and came and told the king, thatTero would often have persuaded him, that when he trimmed himwith a razor, to cut his throat, for that by this means he shouldbe among the chief of Alexander's friends, and receive great re足wards from him. When he had said this, the king gave orderthat Tero and his son, and the barber, should be tortured, whichwas done accordingly; but while Tero bore up himself, hisson seeing his father already in a sad case, and had no hopeof deliverance, and perceiving what would be the consequenceof his terrible sufferings, said, that "if the king would free him"and his father from these torments, for what he should say,"he would tell the truth." And when the king had given hisword to do so, he said that "there was an agreement made, that"Tero should lay violent hands on the king, because it was"easy for him to come when he was alone; and that if, when"he had done the thing, he should suffer death for it, as was"not unlikely, it would be an act of generosity done in favour"of Alexander." This was what Tero's son said, and therebyfreed his father from the distress he was in; but uncertain itis whether he had been thus forced to speak what was tiv.c,or whether it were a contrivance of his in order to procure hisown and his father's deliverance from their miseries. 7. As for Herod, if he had before any doubt about the slaugh足ter of his sons, there was now no longer any room left in his soulfor it; but he had banished away whatsoever might afford himthe least suggestion of reasoning better about this matter, so be