OCR Output C. IX.J TITUS IN THE CITY. 291 2. And now, since his soldiers were already quite tiredwith killing men, and yet there appeared to be a vastmultitude still remaining alive, Caesar gave orders that theyshould kill none but those that were in arms, and opposedthem, but should take the rest alive. But, together withthose whom they had orders to slay, they slew the aged andthe infirm ; but for those that were in their flourishing age,and who might be useful to them, they drove them togetherinto the temple, and shut them up within the walls of thecourt of the women; over which Caesar set one of his freed-men, as also Fronto, one of his own friends, which last wasto determine every one's fate, according to his merits. Sothis Fronto slew all those that had been seditious androbbers, who were impeached one by another; but of theyoung men he chose out the tallest and most beautiful, andreserved them for the triumph: and as for the rest of themultitude that were above seventeen years old, he put theminto bonds, and sent them to the Egyptian1 mines. Titusalso sent a great number into the provinces, as a present tothem, that they might be destroyed upon their theatres bythe sword and by the wild beasts; but those that were underseventeen years of age were sold for slaves. Now, duringthe days wherein Fronto was distinguishing these men, thereperished for want of food eleven thousand, some of which didnot taste any food, through the hatred their guards bore tothem, and others would not take in any when it was giventhem. The multitude also was so very great, that they werein want even of corn for their sustenance. 3. Now, the number2 of those that were carried captive 1 See the several predictions, that the Jews, if they became obstinate intheir idolatry and wickedness, should bo sent again, or sold, into Egypt, fortheir punishment, Deut. xxviii. 68; Jer. xiv. 7; Hos. viii. 13; ix. 3; xi. 4,5; Esd. xv. 10-13, with Authentic Records, Part i. page 49, 121, and RelandPalaestina, torn. ii. page 715. * The whole multitude of Jews that were destroyed during the entire sevenyears before this time, in all the countries of and bordering on Judea, issummed up by Archbishop Usher, from Lypsius, out of Josephus, at theyear of Christ 70, and amounts to 1,337,490. Nor could there have beenthat number of Jews in Jerusalem to be destroyed in this siege, as will bepresently set down by Josephus; but that both Jews and proselytes of