OCR Output 522 DISSERTATION III. that Vespasian had with him three legions, well exercised inwar. Histor. book ii. chap, v.] When Vespasian was a very young man, it was promisedhim that he should arrive at the highest pitch of fame: butwhat did first of all seem to confirm the omen was histriumphs and consulship, and the glory of his victories overthe Jews. When he had once obtained these he believed itwas portended that he should como to the empire.1 There is between Judea and Syria a mountain and a god,both called by the same name of Carmel, though our pre­decessors have informed us that this god had no image, andno temple, and, indeed, no more than an altar and solemnworship. Vespasian was once offering a sacrifice there, at atime when he had some secret thought in his mind: thepriest, whose name was Basilides, when he over and overlooked at the entrails, said, Vespasian, whatever thou artabout, whether the building of thy house, or enlargement ofthy lands, or augmentation of thy slaves, thou art granted amighty seat, very large bounds, a huge number of men.These doubtful answers were soon spread abroad by fame,and at this time were explained: nor was any thing so muchin public vogue; and very many discourses of that naturewere made before him, and the more because they foretoldwhat he expected. Mucianus and Vespasianus went away, having fully agreedon their designs; the former to Antioch, the latter toCaesarea. Antioch is the capital of Syria, and Ca;sarea thecapital of Judea. The commencement of Vespasian's ad­vancement to the empire was at Alexandria, where Tiberiu?Alexander made such haste, that he obliged the legions totake the oath of fidelity to him on the calends of July, whichwas ever after celebrated as the day of his inauguration,although the army in Judea had taken the oath on the fifth 1 Joscphus takes notice in general of these many omens of Vespasian's•idvancement to the empire, and distinctly adds his own remarkable pre­diction of it also. Antiq. b. Hi. ell. viii. sect. 3-9. * This although seems to imply that Vespasian was proclaimed emperor injudea before he was so proclaimed at Alexandria, as the whole history of