OCR Output LUSITANIA. 219 LUSITANIA. The errantry, being irrigated by these rivers, andpenetrated by their navigable streams, as well asenriched by the gold and silver found in their bedsand in mines, was rich and fertile, Strabo tells us; butits prosperity was greatly checked by the predatoryhabits of its people, who neglected the culture of the•oil, to give themselves up to war and robbery. Thisevil tendency, however, he ascribes chiefly to themountain«rs, by whose attacks the inhabitants ofthe lowlands were involved in the same disorder,(Strab. iii. p. 154.) 4. Population. — The province, as finally con­stituted, contained the countries of five chief peoples,ani of innumerable petty tribes, most of whom,however, may be included among these five. Thus,for example, the 30 (some read 50) tribes (foVn),mentioned by Strabo, between the Tagus and theArtabria, are doubtless but subdivisions of the Cal-laici and Lusitani. The five chief peoples of Lusi-tauia (the Roman province) were:—{1.) The Lust-taxi, on the W. coast between the Durius and thoTagu->, and extending also (as explained above) S. ofthe latter river. (2.) £. of them the Vettones,between the Darius and the Anas. (3.) S. of thesetwo were the Tukdui.i Vktkres, a branch of theancient population of Baetica, who (according to thecommon opinion of the ancients) had crossed theAnas; but whose presence should perhaps rather bereferred to an ancient occupation of the country upto the Tagus. (4.) S. of them again, in the dis­trict between the lower course of the Anas and theS. and W. coasts, were a branch of the Turdetani,to whom similar remarks apply. (5.) Lastly, invarious petitions, we find remnants of the old Celticpip ilation. preserving the name of Celtici. Thechief traces of them are on the SE. of the lowerTagus, between it and the great bend of the Anas,where they were mingled with the Turdulij andamong the Turdetani, in the extreme S., where theysees) to have taken up their position in the moun­tainous district between the termination of the W.coast and the Anas (Ahjarbe), which the ancientscsdled Cuneus, and where they bore the distinctivename of Conil (Comp. Hispania, p. 1087. § vii.)The particulars respecting these peoples, their chiefcities, and so forth, are given under the severalarticles: in this place we have to deal only with theLoartanians, properly so called. 5. The Lusitani (Aoo-itwoI, Strab.; Aouctjtoi'oI,DiorL, Ptol.), are designated by Strabo as "thegreatest of the nations of Iberia, and the one mostfr?-raently and longest engaged in war with theK i-naas," a distinction which, certainly, not even theCelrjberisns could dispute with them. The historyof the wars referred to has been given in outlineunder Hispania, and that of their last great contestmay be read in the histories of Home and underVuuaTHtis (Did. of Birxj.'). The incidents ofthat war seem to prove that though the Lusitaniformed a compact state, under one national govern- 7.: Mfti. Plikf. ProLFMv, Apri**. M'iOBRWTagus. Trja. „ J/'iiflcgo. Du.'iu*. RurllH. Jlouru.Aro Ce- Ta«'!«. Ti,'IM, Tai;u.. MoaJs. Munu*. M >ndM. V«u. .. Vimxi. Vi»riu. Darraa. Duriuj. Uuriui. Arua. tllUUllJ. Jit. «rBoi«i. NubLi.•. c obliti- Nebu. Nacbii. Caytvlo. 5«hU. 1•fHialai. I Minius. Ijmia, or Limits. Umtcii, Lima. l.ima«u. <" 1,'tiu-. rimi* Miiiiuj. Mialui. Mjuiua. Hinho. ment, its force was impaired by a certain defect ofreal union among the numerous minor peoples ofwhom Strabo speaks. (Niebuhr, Lectures on Anc.Ethmig. and Geog. vol. ii. p. 297.) The fullaccount of their manners and customs, given byStrabo (iii. pp. 154—156), may be more convenientlystudied in the original than repeated here iu its manydetails. 6. Lusitania as a Roman Province. — (Lusi­tania Provincia, Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 31, No.383.) The position of Lusitania, after its conquestby the Romans, first as a part of Hispinia Ulterior,and already under Julius Caesar, tending to a sepa­rate constitution; its formation into a distinct pro­vince, under Augustus ; its civil and military govern­ments: its three conventus of Emerita Augusta,Pax Julia, and Scalauis, with the number andrank of the towns included iu them; and its positionunder the later empire, are all given under Hispania(pp. 1081, 1082.) 7. Cities and Towns —(Those of the Vettonesare given under the article.) — The city of Lisbon(Port.Lisboa') was, under the same name [Olisipo],the ancient capital of the Lusitanians, and thoughthe Romans degraded it from that rank, in favour oftheir own military colonies, it remained a place ofgreat commercial importance. Its political rankwas transferred, under the Romans, to Scalauis(Santarem), a colony, and seat of a conventus juri-dicus, higher up the river, on its right bank. Butthe true Roman capital was Emerita Augusta(Merida) in the SE. of the province, on the rightbank of the Anas, a colony founded by Augustus.The chief roads leading through the province fromEmerita, with the places on them, were as follows:1. From Emerita, E. and then NE. to Caesar-Auousta "per Lusitaniam," as the Itinerary ex­pressly says, although it lies entirely S. of the Anas(/tin. Ant. pp. 444,445); thus suggesting a doubtwhether the boundary of Lusitania was not carriedas far S. as the M. Marianrs (Sierra Moreno): theplaces on the road, which are commonly assigned toBaelica, are: Contoboua, 12 M. P. (Alawjet)MiROitKiGA, 36 M. P. (CapiUa); Sisalone, orSisAi-o, 13 M. P. (Ahnatlen); Carcuvium, 20M. P. (Caracwl?) ■ At> Turres, 26 M. P. (Ca-latravaf), where, if not sooner, the roads enter theOretani. 2. From Emerita, due N. to Sal-mantice (Salamanca) and Asturica, through theterritory of the Vkttonks. (Itin. Ant. p. 433:for the places see Vettones). 2. From Emerita,NW. to the Tagus, and down the right side of theriver to Olisipo (Itin. Ant. pp. 419, 420*): Pla-oiakia, 30 M. P. (Rajwsera, Cone's; El-Com-mandante, Lapie); Ad vii Aras, 20 M. P. (Co-desera, Cortes, Arrouchcs, Mentelle and Lapie);Montobhiga, 14 M. P. (vulg. Muiidobriga, Alar-voa, Resend. Antiq. Lus. p. 58, F'lorez, Eip. S.vol. xiii. p. 66, Cone's, Ukert; Parlaltgre, Lapie;it seeins to be the Medobriga of the Bell. A lex. 48,and the town of the Medubricenses Plumbarii ofPlin. iv. 21. s. 35); Fraxikus, 30 M. P., on ornear the left bank of the Tagus (Amieira, Cor.e's;Villa Velka, Lapie); TuBUCCI, 32 M. P. (Al/ran-tes or Punltetet); Scalabih, 32 M. P., a colonyand conventus, with the surname Praesiihum Ju- * The numbers on all the roads from Emerita toOlisipo are very corrupt: they do not agree withthe totals given at the head of each route; undmany of them are evidently too short.