OCR Output 228 [book vir. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Joab's; which, as he said himself, was in wayof punishment for his brother Asahel, whomAbner smote and slew as he was pursuingafter him in the battle of Hebron; but as thetruth was, out of fear of his losing his com­mand of the army, and his dignity with theking; and lest he should be deprived of thoseadvantages, and Abner should obtain thefirst rank in David's court. By these exam­ples any one may learn, how many and howgreat instances of wickedness men will ven­ture upon, for the sake of getting money andauthority; and that they may not fail of eitherof them. For as when they are desirous ofobtaining the same, they acquire them byten thousand evil practices; so when theyare afraid of losing them, they get them con­firmed by practices much worse than theformer. As if no other calamity so terriblecould befall them, as the failure of acquiringso exalted an authority, or as the loss of it,after its acquisition and long enjoyment. Andsince this last would be the heaviest of allafflictions, they all of them contrive and ven­ture upon the most difficult actions, out offear of losing the same. But let it sufficethat I have made these short reflections uponthat subject. When David heard that Abner was slain,it grieved his soul, and he called all men towitness, with stretching out his hand to God,and crying out, that he was not a partaker inthe murder of Abner, and that his death wasnot procured by his command or approbation.He also wished the heaviest curses might fallupon him that slew him, and upon his wholehouse, and he devoted those that had assistedhim in this murder to the same penalties onits account. For he took care not to appearto have had any hand in this murder, contraryto the assurances he had given, and the oathshe had taken to Abner. However, he com­manded all the people to weep and lamentthis man, and to honour his dead body withthe usual solemnities; that is, by rending theirgarments, and putting on sackcloth; and thatthis should be the habit in which they shouldgo before the bier. He also followed it him­self, with the elders, and those that wererulers; lamenting Abner, and by his tearsdemonstrating his good will to him while hewas alive, and his sorrow for him now he wasdead; and that he was not taken off with his consent. So he buried him at Hebron, in amagnificent manner, and indited funeral ele­gies for him: he also stood first over themonument weeping, and caused others to dothe same. Nay, so deeply did the death ofAbner disorder him, that his companionscould by no means persuade him to take anyfood: but he affirmed with an oath that hewould taste nothing till the sun was set. Thisprocedure gained him the good will of themultitude; for such as had an affection forAbner were highly gratified with the respecthe paid him, when he was dead; and theobservance of that faith he had plighted tohim; which was shewn in his vouchsafing himall the usual ceremonies, as if he had beenhis kinsman and friend, and not suffering himto be neglected and injured with a dishonour­able burial, as if he had been his enemy.Insomuch that the entire nation rejoiced atthe king's gentleness and mildness of dispo­sition; every one being ready to suppose thatthe king would have taken the same care ofthem, in the like circumstances, which theysaw he shewed in the burial of Abner. Andindeed David principally intended to gain agood reputation; and therefore he took careto do what was proper in this case; whencenone had any suspicion that he was the authorof Abner's death. He also said to the multi­tude, that he was greatly troubled at thedeath of so good a man, and that the affairsof the Hebrews had suffered great detrimentby being deprived of him, who was of so greatabilities to preserve them by his excellentadvice, and by the strength of his hands inwar. "But," added he, " that God, who hath >a regard to all men's actions, will not sufferthis man (Joab) to go off unrevenged. Butknow ye, that I am not able to do any thingto these sons of Zeruiah, Joab and Abishai,who have more power than I have. But Godwill requite their insolent attempts upon theirown heads."* And this was the fatal con­clusion of the life of Abner. CHAP. II. OF THE MURDER OF ISHBOSKETH, BY THE TREACHERY OFHIS FRIENDS, AND OF DAVID'S ACCESSION TO THE WHOLE KIN'iDOM. w HEN Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, hadheard of the death of Abner, he took * 2 Sam. iii. 39.