OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 213 and poets,0 and the tacit or modest censure of theadvocates of the Roman church/ The popes them­selves have indulged a smile at the credulity of thevulgar/ but a false and obsolete title still sanctifies theirreign; and, by the same fortune which has attended thedecretals and the Sibylline oracles, the edifice has sub­sisted after the foundations have been undermined. While the popes established in Italy their free-dom and dominion, the images, the first causeof tne*r revolt, were restored in the eastern em-p*re-h Under the reign of Constantino V. theA.D.780,'union of civil and ecclesiastical power hadoverthrown the tree, without extirpating theroot, of superstition. The idols, for such they werenow held, were secretly cherished by the order and thesex most prone to devotion; and the fond alliance ofthe monks and females, obtained a final victory over thereason and authority of man. Leo IV. maintained withless rigour the religion of his father and grandfather;but his wife, the fair and ambitious Irene, had imbibedthe zeal of the Athenians, the heirs of the idolatry,rather than the philosophy, of their ancestors. Duringthe life of her husband, these sentiments were inflamed f The Paladin Astolpho found it in the moon, among the things that were lostupon earth. (Orlando Furioso, 34. 80.) Di van fiore ad un grand monte passa, Ch'ebbe gia buono odore, or puzza forte Questo era il dono (se pero dir lece) Che Constantino al buon Silvestro fece.Yet this incomparable poem has been approved by a bull of Leo X. f See Baronius, A. D. 324. no. 117—123. A. D. 1191, no. 51, tic. The cardinalwishes to suppose that Rome was offered by Constantine, and refused by Silvester.The act of donation he considers, strangely enough, as a forgery of the Greeks. S Baronius n'en dit guerres contre; encore en a-t'il trop dit, et Ton vouloit sansmoi (Cardinal du Perron), qui 1'empechai, censurer eette partie de son histoire.J'en devisai un jonr avec le Pape, et il ne me repondit antre chose " che volete! ICanonici la lengono," il le desoit en riant. (Perroniana, p. 77.) h The remaining history of images, from Irene to Theodora, is collected, for theCatholics, by Baronius and Pagi, (A. D. 780—840.) Natalis Alexander, (Hist.N. T. seculumS. Panoplia adversus Hareticos, p. 118—178. and Dupin: (Bibliot.Eccles. torn. 6. p. 136—154.) for the Protestants, by Spanheim, (Hist. limit;, p. 305—639.) Basnage, (Hist. del'Eglise.torn. 1. p. 556—572. torn. 2. p. 1362—1385.)and Hosheirn. (Institut. Hist. Eccles. secul. 8. et 9.) The Protestants, exceptMosheim, are soured with controversy; but the Catholics, except Dupin, are in­flamed by the fury and superstition of the monks; and even Le Beau (Hist. du.Bas Empire), a gentleman and a scholar, is infected by the odious contagion.