OCR Output 304 ROMAN EMPIltE. era, which coincides with an astronomical period," has re­corded the fall of the Sassanian dynasty and the religionof Zoroaster.' The youth and inexperience of the prince,he was only fifteen years of age, declined a perilous en­counter; the royal standard was delivered into thehands of his general Rustam; and a remnant of thirtythousand regular troops was swelled in truth, or in opi­nion, to one hundred and twenty thousand subjects, orallies, of the great king. The Moslems, whose numberswere reinforced from twelve to thirty thousand, hadpitched their camp in the plains of Cadesia :u and theirline, though it consisted of fewer men, could producemore soldiers than the unwieldy host of the infidels. Ishall here observe, what I must often repeat, that thecharge of the Arabs was not like that of the Greeks andRomans, the effort of a firm and compact infantry: theirmilitary force was chiefly formed of cavalry and archers;and the engagement, which was often interrupted andoften renewed by single combats and flying skirmishes,might be protracted without any decisive event to thecontinuance of several days. The periods of the battleof Cadesia were distinguished by their peculiar appella­tions. The first, from the well-timed appearance of sixthousand of the Syrian brethren, was denominated the • A cycle of one hundred and twenty years, the end of which an intercalarymonth of thirty days, supplied the use of our bissextile, and restored the integrityof the solar year. In a great revolution of one thousand four hundred and fortyyears, this intercalation was successively removed from the first to the twelftnmonth ; but Hyde and Freret are involved in a profound controversy, whether thetwelve, or only eight of these changes, were accomplished before the era of V.. -degerd, which is unanimously fixed to the 16th of June, A. D. 632. How labori­ously does the curious spirit of Europe explore the darkest and most distant anti­quities! (Hyde and Religione Persarum, c. 14—18. p. 181—211. Freret in theMern. de 1'Academic des Inscriptions, torn. 16. p. 233—267.) 1 Nine days after the death of Mahomet, (7th June, A. D. 632.) we find the eraof Yezdegerd; (16th June, A. D. 632.) and his accession cannot be postponedbeyond the end of the first year. His predecessors could not therefore resist thearms of the caliph Omar, and these unquestionable dates overthrow the thought­less chronology of Abulpharagius. See Ockley's Hist, of the Saracens, vol. 1.p. 130. "Cadesia.says the Nubian geographer,(p. 121.) is in marginesolitudinis, sixty-one leagues from Bagdad, and two stations from Cufa. Otter (Voyage, torn. 1.p. 163.) reckons fifteen leagues, and observes, that the place is supplied with datesand water.