OCR Output 802 ROMA. 3. There are evident traces that Trajan's forumextended still farther to the NW., though it isdonbtfnl whether this extension was owing to Trajanhimself or to Hadrian. Excavations in tliis direc­tion have brought to light enormous granite pillarsbelonging probably to the temple which Hadriandedicated to Trajan (Spart. IJadr. 19), and which TEMTLE OF TKA.1AN. TEMPLE OF Tlt.UAX. is mentioned in the Xotitia in conjunction with thecolumn. This is further confirmed by some in­scriptions bearing the name of Hadrian which havebeen discovered in this quarter. (Bnnsen, fos Fo­rum Romaint, iid* partie, p. 35.) Thus the spaceoccupied by these noble structures extended fromthe fori of Caesar and Augustas almost to the ViaLata, or to the modern Piazza degH Apo$to8. How long the forum of Trajan existed is un­certain. The Anonymous of Kinsiedlcn mentions itin the way from Porta Nomentana to the ForumRomannm. In the Mirabiiia it seems to be spokenof as a thing that has disappeared. VI. Tiif. Palatine and Vei.ta. After the Capitol and forum, the Palatine hill isundoubtedly the most interesting sjwt at Home, bothfrom its having been the cradle of the eternal city,and also the seat of its matured power — the resi­lience of the emperors when those emperors ruledthe world, or, in the words of Tacitus, " ipsa imperiinrx" (II. iii. 70),—a circumstance from which ithas given name to the residences of subsequentprinces. (Dion Cass. liii. 16.) In treating of thetopography of this region, and indeed of that of theremainder of the city, we shall not endeavour to ob->erve a chronological order, as was desirable in treat­ing of the forum, in order that the reader mightgain a clear idea of its appearance in the various|>eriod* of Itoman history; but shall follow the mostconvenient method without regard to the dates of the different objects mentioned. We hive s'nadT t*.scribed the situation and height of the til Thllatter, however, cannot l>e very aecuratel; nv!m»»the soil is covered to a great depth with ithe sole remains of those magnificent edifice* ionce stood upon it. On the side of the Grew!mus, indeed, in the Vigim del Colltgio /a^fcat,!!ruins assume something of a ibut the gigantic arches and terraces at Ithough they may still excite our wonder,sufficiently perfect to enable us to trace isjjof the buildings which they once fanned,ever, they must all have been sabsaqcMttime of Nero; since the ravages of the fin 1that emperor were particularly de*!nirO*t ■Palatine hill. Hence the chief topographicallyrest attaches to the declivities of the hiU, ipresent more facilities for ascertaining fptfi Inected with and sanctified by the early tthe city,— of which several hare already facussed, as the Porta Komanula and Clin* \the Porta Mugionis, the Curiae Veteres.4 We have already Men that the dexirntytithe Capitoline hill was called GiCERatALUS; but though in ancient times tregarded as a separate hill, the ream iclear, since it by no means presents ■features, like the Velia. Here was the Iaccording to tradition a grotto sacred to Isince the time of the Arcadians (Dioxrys. L1and near it the Ficus Pi minaijs. or sacred Iunder which Komulus and Hernus were isuckled by the wolf. It is difficult to <exact spot of the Lupercal. Evandev \to Aeneas as lying "gelida sub rape" (Vn)viit 3-13), and Dionysius (L c.) describes kjthe road (kcito tijv S5or) leading to 1Maximus; and his authority is preferable totS'rvius, who describes it as "in Ctrco"*(afJviii. 90). Its most probable site tbetrfjreiwestern angle of the hill, towards thesituation is in some decree connected with Ithe Casa Koxtru. The description of IKegio, or Palatine, in the Xotitia beginRomuH, and proceeding round the base af tto the X. and K. ends, in coming from the twith the Lupercal; whence it is plain tbanafjfPomuli must have stood a little to the atflPlutarch notices the Casa Romaii, which t|flcalled Tuguhum Faustuli, in the t*V4k>«iaganH'PwfivXos hi (v*e») *af.a rovs *i r)njileeailKa\T;s 'Akttjj • qvtoi St «/r; wept i fri mt P^BBpofiov tup fiiyav in TlaXavrtov «arai^c*r (M20). Here the expression KaAi; 'Arra is pun]as an equivalent name d<«s not occur in anJalauthor. Properly arHf Minifies the mcannot therefore be applied to the tTiber; nor, in prose at least, to anHence Preller is inclined to think that it iePlutarch's awkward translation of the KdnaanJfor a place called Pulcra Rupes, wueckithis appellation after the Lupercal had beeaiby Augustus and adorned with architectrations. (A'eytonea, p. 181.) Bat Pinsurely master of his own language; and Timay not have been a very profoundyet as he lived some time in Roane andhimself with studying the history andthe people, we may per ha pa pre has <knowing the difference betweenIt seems more probable