OCR Output 462 [book XIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. temple at Jerusalem was built according tothe laws of Moses: and to put Sabbeus andTheodosius to death. And these were theevents that befell the Jews at Alexandria, inthe days of Ptolemy Philometor. CHAP. IV. OF THE HONOURS CONFERRED UPON JONATHAN BY ALEXAN­DER, KING OF SYRIA; AND OF THE AFFAIRS OF DEME­TRIUS, WHO AFTERWARD MADE A LEAQUE OF FRIENDSHIPWITH JONATHAN. DEMETRIUS being slain in battle, aswe have *already related, Alexandertook the kingdom of Syria; and wrote toPtolemy Philometor, desiring his daughterin marriage; for he said it was but just thathe should be joined in affinity to one whohad now received the principality of hisforefathers; and had been promoted to it byGod's providence; and had conquered De­metrius; and who was on other accounts notunworthy of being related to him. Ptolemyreceived this proposal gladly: and wrotehim an answer, saluting him on account ofhis having received the kingdom of his fore­fathers; and promising that he would givehim his daughter in marriage. and would ac­company her as far as Ptolemais; where hedesired, that he would meet him. WhenPtolemy had written thus, he came suddenlyto Ptolemais, and brought his daughter Cleo­patra along with him. And as he found Alex­ander there before him, according as he haddesired, he gave him his child in marriage: and for her portion gave her as much silverand gold, as became such a king to give. When the wedding was over, Alexanderwrote to Jonathan the high-priest; and de­sired him to come to Ptolemais. So whenhe came to these kings, and had made themmagnificent presents, he was honoured bythem both. Alexander compelled him alsoto put off his own garments, and to take apurple garment; and made him sit with himin his throne: commanding his captains thatthey should go with him into the middle ofthe city, and proclaim, that it was not per­mitted to any one to speak against him, orto give him any disturbance. And whenthe captains had thus done, those that wereprepared to accuse Jonathan, and who barehim ill-will, when they saw the honour thatwas done him by proclamation, and that bythe king's order, ran away, and were afraidlest some mischief should befall them. Nay,king Alexander was so very kind to Jona­than, that he set him down as the principalof his friends. But upon the hundred and sixty-fifth year,Demetrius, the son of Demetrius, came fromCrete, with a great number of mercenary sol­diers, which Lasthenes, the Cretan, broughthim; and sailed to Cilicia. This cast Alex­ander into great concern and disorder, whenhe heard it. So he hastened immediately outof Phoenicia, and came to Antioch; that hemight put matters in a safe posture there,before Demetrius should come. He also leftfApollonius Daus governor of Coelesyria,J about those men, in the plural, who were to dispute fortheir temple at Jerusalem; whereas, it seems here, theyhad but one disputant, Andronicus by name. Perhapsmore were prepared to speak on the Jews' side: but thefirst having answered to his name, and overcome the Sa­maritans, there was no necessity for any other defenderof the Jerusalem temple. * Chap. II. t This Apollonius Daus was, by his account, the son ofApollonius, who had been made governor of Coelesyriaand Phoenicia by Seleucus Philopator; and was himself aconfidant of his son Demetrius the father; and restored tohis father's government by him; but afterwards revoltedfrom him to Alexander: but not to Demetrius the son. J Apollonius was a common name among the Syro-Macedonians and Greeks; and, in the history of the Mac­cabees, we find so many mentioned of that name, thatfor the prevention of mistakes, it may not be improperto give some account of the several persons who bore it.The first that we meet with of that name is Apollonius,the son of Thraseas, 2 Mace. iii. 5. who was governor•f Co?lesyri» and Phoenicia, under Seleucus Philopator when Heliodorus came to Jerusalem, to rob the temple.He was chief minister of state to Seleucus; but, on theaccession of his brother Antiochus Epiphanes to thecrown, he left Syria, and retired to Miletus. He had ;ison of his own name, that was bred up at Rome, and re­sided with Demetrius, (the son of Seleucus Philopator,)who was then a hostage in that place. When Demetriusrecovered the crown of Syria, this Apollonius became hisprime favourite, and was made governor of Coelesyria andPhoenicia, the same government which his father held un­der Seleucus Philopator; and this I take to be the sameApollonius, who being continued in the same governmentby Alexander, now revolted from him to embrace the in­terest of Demetrius, the son of his old master, and, to en­gage Jonathan to do the like, marched his forces againsthim. Another Apollonius is spoken of, 2 Mace. iv. 21. asthe chief minister of Antiochus Epiphanes, who from himwas sent as ambassador first to Rome, and afterwards toPtolemy Philometor, king of Egypt; and him I take to bethe same, that with a detachment of two and twenty thou­sand men, was sent to destroy Jerusalem, and build a for­tress on mount Acra. There are, besides these, two other