OCR Output discourse in. xciii The Sicilian war, which some critics* are inclined to thinkhath no connection with the subject of Thucydides, and to bemere digression, whatever it may appear at first, the readerwill at length be satisfied was an essential part of the Pelopon-nesian war, and hastened its decision. But, supposing itremote from the principal subject, it must however be ac­knowledged, that it is the history of a war nobly related, wellconnected, very closely followed, and full of incidents to en­gage attention, to alarm and interest the passions. Thucy­dides, in the course of it, which takes up the two followingbooks, which display the excellencies of the poet and thepainter as well as of the historian. Let his merit be regula­ted from this portion of his work, it is presumed that, with­out a negative, he will be allowed the master of History. He begins with describing the theatre on which two mightyStates are going to enter the lists.—The geography and an­tiquities of Sicily could not in their nature be very entertain­ing, and therefore they are drawn up in the concisest manner.—The soaring enterprising genius of Alcibiades hath formeda superb plan for the aggrandizement of himself and hiscountry. Alcibiades could plan with all the magnificenceand wild ambition of an Alexander ; but a citizen of Athenscould not have the means of executing in so imperial a man­ner as the Monarch of Macedonia and Captain-General ofGreece. He was able soon to convince the younger and morenumerous part of the Athenian community, that the enter­prise was most inviting, and carried with it such a probabi­lity of success as over-balanced all expence and hazard. Itwas long the subject of general conversation; it gradually-inflamed the public ardour; and at length ingrossed all theirhopes and wishes. In a word, the expedition to Sicily is for­mally proposed and decreed in the assembly of the people.A second assembly is convened on ways and means. On thisoccasion a grand debate ensued, the managers of which areNicias and Alcibiades. • See Rapin's comparison of Thucydides and Liry.