OCR Output i20 FLATIUS JOSEPnUS [b. ii. Great, and Licinius Crassus, and, last of all, Titus Caesar,have conquered us in war, and gotten possession of our tem­ple ; yet have they none of them found any such thing there,nor, indeed, any thing but what was agreeable to the strictestpiety; although what they found we are not at liberty to re­veal to other nations. But for Antiochus [Epiphanes,] hohad no just cause for that ravage in our temple that he made;he only came to it when he wanted money, without declaringhimself our enemy, and attacked us while we were his asso­ciates and his friends : nor did he find any thing there thatwas ridiculous. This is attested by many worthy writers;Polybius of Megalopolis, Strabo of Cappadocia, Nicolaus ofDamascus, Timagenes, Castor the chronologer, and Apollo-dorus,1 who all say, that it was out of Antiochus's want ofmoney that he broke his league with the Jews, and despoiledtheir temple when it was full of gold and silver. Apion oughtto have had a regard to these facts, unless he had himselfhad either an ass's heart or a dog's impudence; of such adog I mean as they worship; for he had no other externalreason for the lies he tells of us. As for us Jews, we ascribeno honor or power to asses, as do the Egyptians to crocodilesand asps, when they esteem such as are seized upon by theformer or bitten by the latter to be happy persons, and per­sons worthy of God. Asses are the same with us which theyare with other wise men, viz. creatures that bear the burdensthat we lay upon them ; but if they come to our threshing-floors, and eat our corn, or do not perform what we imposeupon them, we beat them with a great many stripes, becauseit is their business to minister to us in our husbandry affairs.But this Apion of ours was either perfectly unskilful in thecomposition of such fallacious discourses, or, however, whenhe began [somewhat better,] he was not able to persevere inwhat he had undertaken, since he hath no manner of successin those reproaches he casts upon us. 1 It is (i great pity that these six pagan authors, here mentioned to havedescribed the famous profanation of the Jewish temple by Antiochus Epi­phanes, should be all lost; I mean so far of their writings as contained thatdescription; though it is plain Josephus perused them all, as extant in histime.