OCR Output B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 275 ** reimbursed, on condition the forces under his com-"mand might have free departure; bur, till the mo-"ney could be paid, he would leave with them a num-*' ber of Athenians as hostages for performance, a maa*' for a talent." Gylippus and the Syracusans refused the offer; and,resuming offensive measures, ranged their parties quiteround the eminence, and poured in their missive wea­pons upon them till the evening. This body of troopswas also sadly distressed for wane of bread and necessarysubsistence. Watching, however, for the dead and si­lent hours of the night, they were then determined tocontinue their march. They accordingly take up theirarms; the Syracusans perceive it, and sing the pæan ofalarm. The Athenians were thus convinced that theycould not dislodge without being discovered, and sogrounded their arms again, all but one party of threehundred men; for these, having forced themselves apassage through the guards, made off in the night asfast as it was possible. So soon as the day appeared, Nicias, at the head ofhis troops, led them forwards. But the Syracusans andallies pressed upon him on all sides in the usual manner,pouring in vollies of darts and javelins. The Atheni­ans made the best of their way to reach the river Assina-rus; not only because, annoyed on all sides by the ir­ruption of the numerous cavalry and skirmishing par­ties, they concluded they should be eated of these couldthey once pass that river, but also through bodily fa­tigue and a vehement desire to extinguish their thirst."When, therefore, they are upon the bank, they rushinto the river; no longer observant of order, but eachsingle soldier intent on passing the first of the army.And the enemy, who now prefled hard upon them, hadrendered the passage already a business of toil:For, obli­ged as they were to go down in confused'heaps, they felland trampled upon one another; some, embarrassed bytheir spears and luggage, met with instant destruction T 2 others,