OCR Output 028 PICENUM. PICENTM. called Flaminia, aul the two together constituted aprovince which comprised all the strip of Umbriaalong the coast of the Adriatic, as well us the terri­tory of the Sabines, Vestini, Peligni, ami Marst.Hence we find the Liber Coloniartun including thewhole of this extensive district under the name ofPicenum, and enumerating not only Alba and Nursia,hut even Momentum, Kidenae, and Tibur, among the"civitates Piceni." {Lib. Cohm. p. 252—259.)But this arrangement did not last lout:. Flaminiaand Valeria were again separated from Picenum, andthat province was subdivided into two: the one called"Picenum snburbioarium," or simply Picenutn,which was the original district of that name, corre­sponding tothe Fifth Kegion of Augustus; while thename of M Fieenum Annonarium" was given to tiietract from the Aesis to the Rubicon, which had beenoriginally known as the " Gallicus Ager," and in thedays of Augustus was comprised under the name ofUmbria. (Lib. Cohm. pp. 225—227; Mommsen,Die Lib. Col. pp. 208—214; NotU. J%n. ii. pp. 64,Ii5j Bucking ad Not pp. 432, 443; P. Diac. ii.19.) In the wars between the Goths and the generalsof Justinian, IVenum repeatedly became the imme­diate theatre of hostilities. Auximum in particular,which was at this time the chief city or capital oft he province, was regarded as one of the most im­portant fortresses in Italy, and withstood for a longtime the arms of Belisarius. (Procop. Ji. G. ii. 10,23—27.) After the expulsion of the Goths, Picc-niim became one of the provinces of the exarchate ofRavenna, and as such continued subject to the Greekmirrors until the final downfal of the exarchs. Itwas at this periixl that arose the geographical desig­nation of the Peutapolis, for a province which com­prised the greater part of Picenum, together withthe maritime district of Umbria as far as Ariminum.The province of this name was one of those bestowedon the see of Koine by king Pepin after the defeatof the Lombard king Astolphus (a. i>. 754), andhas ever since continued to form part of the States'if the Church. Picenuni is a district of great fertility and beauty.Extending in a broad hand of nearly uniform widthfrom the central ranges of the Apennines, which formits boundary on the W., and which here attain then-greatest elevation in the Monte Conu> and Montift* I la Sibilla, it slopes gradually from thence to t hesea ; the greater part of this apace being occupiedby great hills, the undorfalJs of the more lofty Apen­nines, which in their more elevated regions are clothedwith extensive forests, while the lower slojtes produceabundance of fruit-trees and olives, as well as goodwine and corn. (Strah. v. p. 240; Liv. xxii. 9.)Both Horace and Juvenal extol the excellence of itsapples, and Pliny tells us its olives were among thechoicest in Italy. (Hot. Sat. ii. 3. 272, 4. 70;Jur. xi. 72; Plin. xv. 3. s. 4.) The whole districtis furrowed by numerous streams, which, descendingwith great rapidity from the lofty ranges of theApennines, partake much of a torrent-like character,but nevertheless serve to irrigate t\w whole country,which is thus rendered one of the pleasantcst in Italy.These streams pursue nearly parallel courses, the di­rect distance from their sources to the sea in no casemuch exceeding 40 miles. They are, proceedingfrom S. to N.. as follows : (1) The M.VTiusrs. nowcalled La Ftomba, a small stream which formed thevmheni limit of Picenum, separating it from theterritory of the Vestini; (2) the VoHABUS, still on fa be ti tfT t*» -ooi Cav called the Vvmant), which st pirated the district *fAdria from that of the Praetutii; (3) the Bativnnow called the Tordino, but sometimes *W> tf*Trontino, which flows by Teramo (Intoanua);(4)theTm:KNTi\s (Tronto), the most considerable!*all these streams, which Hows under the •■Ik efAscoli (Asculum); (5) the Tinna. still oiled ■Tenna ; (6) the FltjsoR, now the Chienti; (7) titPotkntia, still called the Polmza; (8) ibe Mwoor Jlisius, now known as the Musont. These Hnames are known only from the Tabula: on tfceother hand Pliny mentions a stream called ALsru.to which are added in some MSS. the namei dSninus and Helvinns. All these are placid apfe-rently between the river Trucntus and the wwaefCupra Maritima; but Itesides the uncertainty of Atreading, the whole description oi* this region in FSsfis so confused that it is very unsafe to rely open I*"order of enumeration. The Albula cannot be ftified with any certainty, hut may perhaps Istream now called the Salinello, and the other 1names are probably mere corruptions. 9. The Aj(£rmo), a much more considerable stream,!into the sea between Ancona and Sena Galttca,*the boundary which separated Picenum fnan Xbria. The towns of Picenum are numerous, and, Ithe accounts of the populousness of the coontrjfiearly times, were probably many of them oceeefllsiderablc, but few have any historical rekfariMThose on the sea-coast (proceeding as befire 'rmS. to N.) were: (1) Matiuxlm, at the mouth of Wriver of the same name, serving a> the pen of AM)(Strab. v. p. 241); (2) Castrcm N.atm. ar*mouth of the Batinus, ix"ar Giulia A'twea;tbum Truentincm or Tri estum, at the iof the river of the same name ; (4) Ccr*A 1tima, at Le Grotle a Mare, about 3 milesS. Benedetto; (5) Castkcm Firmanum. now jdi Fermo, at the mouth of the little river ,(fi) Poi entia (Sta Maria a Potenza\ at the iof the river of the same name; (7) Sencalled Umana, at the southernmountain headland called Monte CotAxcona, at the northern end of thetory. This last was by far the mostthe maritime towns of Picennm, and tha ithat possessed a port worthy of the name: witfajexception all the most important cities f the iwere situated inland, on hills of considerable dfltion, and thus enjoyed the advantage of atres^flsitions as fortresses. The most important of itfwere ArxiMi M (Osimo), about 12 miles S. <fMcona; Cixgulum (Cinffoli), in a very lofty sfltion, between the valleys of the Acsis and EVcjssflKiKMt'M (Fenno), on a hill about 6 miles irvmrnsea ; Asct'i.L'M (Ascoli), the ancient capital »afnum, in a very strong situation on the river Tmtus, about 22 miles from its mouth: lxraataJ(Teramo), the chief city of the Praetatat ; ^Adria (Atri), almost close to the fouthem 1of Picenum. The minor towns in the inTerisjBerbgra, which may perhaps be placed at CIdi Tronto, not far from Ascoli; Cl'PKA Iso called to distinguish it from the 1the same name, supposed to have occupied taae \HijMtransom■■■ Cll ana. at 5. Flpidio a Mm4 miles from the sea, and a little to the N.Novana, proliably at Monte di Xo\FaLXKIA (Fallcrtme). in the upper r«aTinna; Uiiua Salvia (CrbL<a$tia) and'