OCR Output 142 AffTIQJJITIES OF THE tews. Book XIX. would become of them, because Claudius was very angry atthem; so they fell a-reproaching one another, and repented ofwhat they had done. At which juncture Sabinus, one of Caius'smurderers, threatened that he would sooner come into the midstof them and kill himself, than consent to make Claudius empe­ror, and see slavery returning upon them ; he also abused Chereafor loving his life too well, while he who was the first in his con­tempt of Caius, could think it a good thing to live, when, evenby all that they had done for the recovery of their liberty, theyfound it impossible to do it. But Cherea said, he had no man­ner of doubt upon him about killing himself; that yet he wouldfirst sound the intentions of Claudius before he did it. 5. These were the debates [about the senate] ; but in thecamp every body was crowding on all sides to pay their court toClaudius ; and the other consul, Quintus Pomponius, was re­proached by the soldiery, as having rather exhorted the senateto recover their liberty ; whereupon they drew their swords,and were going to assault him, and they had done it, if Clau­dius had not hindered them, who snatched the consul out of thedanger he was in, and set him by him. But he did not receivethat part of the senate which was with Quintus, in the like ho­nourable manner ; nay, some of them received blows, and werethrust away as they came to salute Claudius; nay, Aponiuswent away wounded, and they were all in danger. However,king Agrippa went up to Claudius, and desired he would treatthe senators more gently ; for if any mischief should come to the•enate, he would have no others over whom to rule. Claudiuscomplied with him, and called the senate together into the palace,and was carried thither himself through the city, while the soldieryconducted him, though this was to the great vexation of the mul­titude; for Cherea and Sabinus, two of Caius's murderers, went inthe fore-front of them, in an open manner, while Polio, whomClaudius, a little before, had made captain of his guards, had sentthem an epistolary edict, to forbid them to appear in public.Then did Claudius, upon his coming to the palace, get his friendstogether, and desired their suffrages about Cherea. They said,that the work he had done was a glorious one, but they accusedhim that he did it of perfidiousness, and thought it just to in­flict the punishment [of death] upon him, to discountenance suchactions for the time to come. So Cherea was led to his execu­tion, and Lupus, and many other Romans with him ; now it is(reported, that Cherea bore this calamity courageously, and this,not only by the firmness of his own behaviour under it, but by therepr.oaches he laid upon Lupus, who fell into tears; for when.. , • Lupug