OCR Output SI'J LUCAXIA. LL'CERIA. be regarded u only the salient points of one largeprojecting mass which separates tlie gulf of Paestumfrom that of Policastro. The latter seems to havebeen known in ancieni times as the gulf of Lalis.Opposite to the headland called Pisidium was theamall islet named by the Greeks LjECOOHA, fromwhich the promontory now derives the name ofPunla di Licota ; and a little further S., off thecoast of Velia, were the two islands (also mere rocks)called by the Greeks the Oknotiudes. (Strab. vi.p. 252; Plin. iii. 7. 8. 13.) The towns of I.ucunia may be conveniently enu­merated in two classes :—the first comprising thosealong the coasts, which were alnnat without excep­tion of Greek origin; the other containing the townsof the interior, which were for the most part eithernative I,ucanian settlements, or Roman colonies of alater date. On the W. coast, proceeding along theshore of the Tyrrhenian sea, from X. to S., were:—PosinoNiA, afterwards called Paksti'M, a very littlewar from the month of the Silarus; Elea or Veua,at the mouth of the Heles (/Ifcn/o); Prxca, calledby the Romans Buxentim, now Policattro; Sci-nr.rs. supposed to have occupied the site of Sapri;I'.i.aM'A. now Maratea ; and Laus, which was atthe mouth of the river of that name, on its right bank.On the E. coast, bordering on the gulf of Tarentum,and beginning from the Crathis, stoixi Thurii, re­placing the ancient city of Sydakis, but not occupy­ing precisely the same site; Sims, which had in likemanner been succeeded by the more recent settle­ment of ll> h.m t.i a. a few miles further N.; and,lastly. Mi i ai'dm in, on the southern bauk of theriver Bradanus. The principal towns in the interior were:— Po­tentia, still called Polenza, and the capital ofthe province known as the Baiilicala; Atina, stillcalUd Atina, in the upper valley of the Tanaper;Volckium or VoIjCbntum, now Buccino; Nu-xiistho, of uncertain site, but apparently in thesame neighliourhood; Kmiil (Ebvli), which is ex­pressly called by Pliny a I.ucanian town, thoughsituated to the X.of the Silarus ; I'. is 11 i. Bimzi, afew miles from Venusia, on the very frontiers ofApulia, so that it was sometimes referred to thatcountry; Glii'MENTUM (near Sajwimra), one of themost considerable towns in Lucania; Ni 1:1 i ,i m,proliably at La Itatonda, and MuBaJICaf, still calledMorano, almost adjoining the frontier of Bruttium.CoMail.lNUM or Codiumm may probably be placedat Pa/lula, in the upper valley of the Tanager, andTkgianl'M at Diano, in the same neighbourhood;while I.'i Polla, in the same valley, occupies theKite of r'onxM Popiu.il; Sontia, noticed only byPliny, is probably the pla■ •• now called Sanza; whilethe Tergilani and Ursentiui of the same author arewholly unknown, unless the former name be cor­rupted from that of Tegianum, already noticed.(Plin. iii. 11. a. 15; Lib. Colon, p. 209.) Of thefew names mentioned by Strabo (vi. p. 254), those jof Vertinae and Calasama are wholly unknown.'The existence of a I.ucanian Petkija and Pan-I'hsia, in addition to the liruttian cities of thosenames, is a subject of great doubt. The principal line of highroad through Lncaniawas the Via Popillia (regarded by the Itineraries asa branch of the Via Appia), which, in its cursefrom Capua to Uhegium, traversed the whole pro-:vines from N. to S. The stations on it given in theAulonine Itinerary, p. 109, are (proceeding fromNuceria): — Ad Tnnagrnin -Ad CaloremMarcilianaCacsa nanaKerulum -Sub Murauo - XXV. - xxir. - XXT. - xxi. - xxiii. - xiv. The Tabula gives a place which it calls WasMcmlicolus (?) as the intermediate station betweenMam]una and Kerulum. All these station* arevery doubtful, the exact line of the ancient nedthrough this mountain country having never beentraced with accuracy. Another road, given in theTabula, led from Potentia by Anxia (.lw;i) andGrumentum to Xerulum, where it joined the ViaPopillia. The other roads in the interior, given inthe Itinerary and the Tabula, are very corrupt; wemay, however,ascertain that there was a line of padproceeding from Venusia through Potentia to He-raclea and Thurii, and another from Potentia tojoin the Via Popillia at Marciliana. being probablythe direct hue of communication between Potentiaand Rome. Lastly, there was always a line ofroad along the coast, following its level shoresfrom Tarentum by Metapontuin and Heracles UThurii. [E. H. B-] COIN OF I.ITANIA. IXCE'lilA (AouaVa, Pol., Strab.: Elk. Aewt-pivot, Steph. B.; Lucerinus: I.ucrra), an incintanil important city of Apulia situatetl in the interiorof that country, about 12 miles W. of Aria, and 9X. of Accae (Trojii). It is railed by ancient wri­ters a city of the Oaunians, and the tradition currrntamong the Greeks ascribed its foundation,in ctsnnvuawith that of Arpi and Cannsium, to Diumed; mproof of which an ancient statue of Minerva, is tawtemple of that giddess, was slleged to be the truePalladium brought by l)iomed himself from Tnw.(Strab. vi. pp. 264. 284; Plin. iii. 11. a. If. i i •:all the accounts of the city from the time that itsname ap|*ars in history would seem to punt to itsbeing an Oscan town, and connected rather with it*Oscan branch of the Apullans than with the Uasv-nians. Nothing is known of the history of Lort-riatill the Second Snmnite War, when the I.unmans.who had apparently joined with the other Apuhana.in their alliance wilh Rome in no. 326. but badrefused to partake in their subsequent defection lathe Samnites, were besieged by the Utter ivpl*;and the Human legions were ou their way torelsnaand succour them, w-heu they sus'ained the free*disaster at the Caudiue Knrks. (Liv. ix. 2; I .»-kenborch, ad toe.; Aur. Vict, dt Yir. JUmtL 30.)It is clear that in consequence of that bl.w ta theRoman power, Luceria fell into the hands of UseSamnites, as we are told shortly after that the hos­tages given np by the R>man» by the treaty at Cam-dium were depwited for safely in that city. ;I:ix. 12.) For this reason its recovery was a n.»tobject with the Mutilans; and in n. c. 320, PapihnsCursor laid siege to Luceria with a large army, aad.