OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. > 231 of the three chapters, were separated from the communion of the saints, and so­lemnly delivered to the prince of darkness. But the Latin churches were morejealous of the honour of Leo and the synod of Chalcedon; and if they had fought asthey usually did under the standard of Rome, they might have prevailed in the causeof reason and humanity. But their chief was a prisoner in the hands of the ene­my, the throne of St. Peter, which had been disgraced by the simony, was be­trayed by the cowardice of Vigilius, who yielded, after a long and inconsistantstruggle, to the despotism of Justinian and the sophistry of the Greeks. Hisapostacy provoked the indignation of the Latins, and no more than two bishopscould be found who would impose their hands on his deacon and successor Pela-gius. Yet the perseverance of the popes insensibly transferred to their adversa­ries the appellation of schismatics: the Illyrian, African, and Italian churches,were oppressed by the civil and ecclesiastical powers, not without some effort ofmilitary force;(l) the distant barbarians transcribed the creed of the Vatican, andin the period ot a century, the schism of the three chapters expired in an obscureangle of the Venetian province. (2) But the religious discontent of the Italianshad already promoted the conquests of the Lombards, and the Romans them­selves were accustomed to suspect the faith, and to detest the government of theirByzantine tyrant. Justinian was neither steady nor consistent in the nice process of fixing his vola­tile opinions and those of his subjects. In his youth, he was offended by theslightest deviation from the orthodox line, in his old age he transgressed the mea­sure of temperate heresy, and the Jacobites, not less than the catholics, werescandalized oy his declaration, that the body of Christ was incorruptible, and thathis manhood was never subject to any wants and infirmities, the inheritance of ourmortal flesh. This fantastic opinion was announced in the last edicts of Justinian;and at the moment of his seasonable departure, the clergy had refused to tran­scribe, the prince was prepared to persecute, and the people were resolved to suf­fer or resist. A bishop of Treves, secure beyond the limits of his power, ad­dressed the monarch of the east in the language of authority and affection:" Most gracious Justinian, remember your baptism and your creed! Let not yourgray hairs be defiled with heresy. Recall your fathers from exile, and your fol­lowers from perdition. You cannot be ignorant, that Italy and Gaul, Spain andAfrica, already deplore your fall, and anathematize your name. Unless, withoutdelay, you destroy what you h ive taught; unless you exclaim, with a loud voice, Ihave erred, I have sinned, anathema to Nestorius, anathema to Eutyches, you willdeliver your soul to the same flames in which they will eternally burn." He died andmade no sign (3) His death restored in some degree the peace of the church, andthe reigns of his four successors, Justin, Tiberius, Maurice, and Phocas, are dis­tinguished by a rare, though fortunate, vacancy, in the ecclesiastical history of theeast. (4) The faculties of sense and reason are least capable of acting on themselves; theeye is most inaccessible to the sight, the soul to the thought: yet we think, andeven feel, that one will, a sole principle of action, is essential to a rational and con­scious being. When Heraclius returned from the Persian war, the orthodox hero-consulted his bishops, whether the Christ whom he adored, of one person, but oftwo natures, was actuated by a singular, or double will. They replied in the sin­gular, and the emperor was encouraged to hope that the Jacobites of Egypt andSyria might be reconciled by the profession of a doctrine, most certainly harmless,and most probably true, since it was taught even by the Nestorians themselves. (5) (1) See the complaints of l.iberatus and Victor, and the exhortations or pope Pelagius to the conqueror andexarch of ltaK Scliisma .... |»ee potestates publicas oppdimatur, &c. (Concil. torn. vi. p. 487, &c.) An•o suppress »"• si ctiiiors of an Illyrian city. (Sec Procopius, de Bell. Goth. lib. iv. c. 25.) * Sixf*xxovT*i. He seems to promise an ecclesiastical history. It would have of Aquileia were reconciled by pope Honorius, A. D. 638t (Muratori,-again relapsed, and the schism was not finally extinguished till 698.■in had overlooked the fifth general council with contemptuous si-m. vii. p. 487—404.) I. torn. 6. p. 511—513.) he himself, like most of the Gallican prelates,. torn. vi. p. 1007.) was separated from the comlnonion of the four pa­ce chapters. Baronius almost pronounces the damnation of Justi- tinian, (lib. iv. e. 39—41.) and the edict of his successor, lib. v. vs is filled with civil, instead of ecclesiastical events,consistent doctrine of the Nestorians, had been observed 1-•iidn more fully exposed bv Atmlnharajpii-. . B>!>' i 'tt»