OCR Output 144 DECLINE AND FALL fcHAP. XLI, decline an honour too conspicuous for a subject: andhis magnanimity might justly disdain what had been sooften sullied by the vilest of tyrants. The glorious pro­cession entered the gate of the hippodrome; was salutedby the acclamations of the senate and people; and haltedbefore the throne where Justinian and Theodora wereseated to receive the homage of the captive monarchand the victorious hero. They both performed the cus­tomary adoration; and, falling prostrate on the ground,respectfully touched the footstool of a prince who hadnot unsheathed his sword, and of a prostitute who haddanced on the theatre: some gentle violence was used tobend the stubborn spirit of the grandson of Genseric;and, however trained to servitude, the genius of Belisa-His »oie rius must have secretly rebelled. He was immediatelyaTd. ass,' declared consul for the ensuing year, and the day of hisJanuary i. inaUgUration resembled the pomp of a second triumph:his curule chair was borne aloft on the shoulders of cap­tive Vandals; and the spoils of war, gold cups, and richgirdles, were profusely scattered among the populace.Hmei°ande" ^ut tne Puresfc reward of Belisarius was in the faithfuliiie van- execution of a treaty, for which his honour had beenpledged to the king of the Vandals. The religious scru­ples of Gelimer, who adhered to the Arian heresy, wereincompatible with the dignity of senator or patrician:but he received from the emperor an ample estate in theprovince of Galatia, where the abdicated monarch retiredwith his family and friends, to a life of peace, of affluence,and perhaps of content.1 The daughters of Hildericwere entertained with the respectful tenderness due totheir age and misfortune; and Justinian and Theodoraaccepted the honour of educating and enriching the fe­male descendants of the great Theodosius. The bravestof the Vandal youth were distributed into five squadrons 1 In the Belisaire of Marmontel, the king and the conqueror of Africa meet, sop,and converse, without recollecting each other. It is surely a fault of that romance,that not only the hero, but all to whom he had been so conspicuously known, appearto have lost their eyes or their memory.