OCR Output 182 ANTICJUITJES or THE JEWS. Book XII. to his end, when he had first courageously destroyed many ofhis enemies. 5. But Judas, seeing the strength of the enemy, retired to Je­rusalem, and prepared to endure a siege. As for Antiochus, hesent part of his army to Bethsura, to besiege it, and with therest of his army he came against Jerusalem; but the inhabitantsof Bethsura were terrified at his strength; and seeing that theirprovisions grew scarce, they delivered themselves up on the se­curity of oaths, that they should suffer no hard treatment fromthe king. And when Antiochus had thus taken the city, hedid them no other harm than sending them out naked. He alsoplaced a garrison of his own in the city. But as for the templeof Jerusalem, he lay at its siege a long time, while they withinbravely defended it, for what engines soever the king set againstthem, they set other engines again to oppose them. But thentheir provisions failed them; what fruits of the ground they hadlaid up were spent, and the land being not ploughed that year,continued unsowed, because it was the seventh year, on which,by our laws, we are obliged to let it lie uncultivated. And withalso many of the besieged ran away for want of necessaries, thatbut a few only were left in the temple. 6. And these happened to be the circumstances of such aswere besieged'in the temple. But then, because Lysias, thegeneral of the army, and Antiochus the king, were informedthat Philip was coming upon them out of Persia; and was en­deavouring to get the management of public affairs to himself,they came into these sentiments, to leave the siege, and to makehaste to go again to Philip; yet did they resolve not to let thisbe known to the soldiers nor to the officers: But the king com­manded Lysias to speak openly to their soldiers and the officers,without saying a word about the business of Philip: and to in­timate to them, that the siege would be very long: that theplace was very strong; that they were already in want of pro­visions; that many affairs of the kingdom wanted regulation:and that it was much better to make a league with the besieged,and to become friends to their whole nation, by permitting themto observe the laws of their fathers, while they broke out intothis war only because they were deprived of them, and so to de­part home. When Lysias had discoursed thus to them, boththe army and the officers were pleased with this resolution. 7. Accordingly the king sent to Judas, and to those that werebesieged with them, and promised to give them peace, and topermit them to make use of, and live according to the laws oftheir fathers. And they gladly received his proposals: andwhen they had gained security upon oath, for their perform­ance, they went out of the temple. But when Antiochus came