OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXX. 265 against the Roman people, and have so often been onthe point of making a conquest of them, should volun­tarily come to sue for peace, I am glad that it is toyou, rather than to any other person, that I am to ap­ply. On your part, too, among the many illustriousevents of your life, it ought not to be reckoned theleast glorious, that Hannibal, to whom the gods grantedvictory over so many Roman generals, has yielded toyou; and that you put an end to this war, which wasfirst rendered remarkable by the calamities of yourcountry, before it was so by those of ours. Here alsowe may observe the sport of fortune in (he disposal ofevents, that, in the consulate of your father, I took uparms. He was the first Roman general with whom Iengaged in battle, and to his son I now come unarmedto solicit peace. It were indeed above all things to bewished that the gods had so disposed the minds of ourfathers, that your countrymen had been contented withthe dominion of Italy, and ours with that of Africa;for, even on your side, Sicily and Sardinia are not anadequate compensation for the loss of so many fleets, somany armies, so many excellent generals. But whatis past, however it may be blamed, cannot be retrieved.Our attempts on the possessions of others have endedin our being necessitated to fight in defence of ourown. Thus we not only brought war home to you inItaly, but to ourselves in Africa. You beheld the armsand ensigns of an enemy almost within your gates andon your walls; and we now, from the ramparts of Car­thage, hear the din of a Roman camp. The event, there­fore, for which we ought most earnestly to pray, andyou to wish, above all things, now comes in view: youare negotiating a peace in the midst of a successfulcareer. We who negotiate are the persons most in­terested in its establishment, and whose stipulations,whatever they may be, will certainly be ratified by ourrespective states. We want nothing but a dispositionnot averse from pacific counsels. For my part, so muchinstruction have 1 received from age, returning now anold man to my country, which I left a boy, and also