OCR Output hs. 947.1 307 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. wealth from God, they returned to Jerusalem.Now as they were corning, a prophet whosename was Azariah, met them on the road, andbade them stop their journey a little; and be­gan to say to them, that the reason why theyhad obtained this victory from God was thatthey had shewn themselves righteous andreligious men, and had done every thing ac­cording to the will of God; that therefore,if they persevered therein, God would grantthat they should always overcome their ene­mies, and live happily; but if they left off hisworship, all things would fall out on the con­trary; and the #time should come, wherein notrue prophet should be left in their wholemultitude; nor a priest who should deliver atrue answer from the oracle: but their citiesshould be overthrown, and their nation scat­tered over the whole earth, and live the lifeof strangers and wanderers. So he advisedthem, while they had time, to be good, andnot to deprive themselves of the favour ofGod. When the king and the people heardthis, they rejoiced; and all in common, andevery one in particular, took great care tobehave themselves righteousry.f The kingalso sent some to take care, that those inthe country should observe the laws. I now return to Baasha, king of the mul­titude of the Israelites, who slew Nadab,the son of Jeroboam, and retained the go­vernment. He dwelt J in the city Tirzah;having made that his habitation; and reignedtwenty-four years. He became more wickedand impious than Jeroboam or his son: for hedid a great deal of mischief to the multitude;and was injurious to God. The prophet Jehuwas therefore sent to tell him beforehand,that his whole family should be destroyed,and that God would bring the same miserieson his house, which had brought that of Je­roboam to ruin: because when he had beenmade king by him, he had not requited hiskindness, by governing the multitude righ­teously and religiously; which things in thefirst place tended to their own happiness,and in the next place were pleasing to God;that he had imitated this very wicked kingJeroboam; and although that man's soul had perished, yet did he express to the life hiswickedness; and he said, that he shouldtherefore justly experience the like calamitywith him; since he had been guilty of thelike wickedness. But Baasha, though heheard beforehand what miseries would be­fall him and his whole family for their inso­lent behaviour, yet did not he leave off hiswicked practices for the time to come; nordid he care to appear to be other than worseand worse till he died; nor did he even thenrepent of his past actions, nor endeavour toobtain pardon of God for them; but did asthose do, who have rewards proposed tothem, when they have once in earnest setabout their work, they do not leave off theirlabours. For thus did Baasha grow worsewhen the prophet foretold to him what wouldcome to pass: as if the threatened perditionof his family, and the destruction of his housewere good things; and as if he were a com­batant for wickedness, he every day tookmore and more pains for it. And at last hetook his army, and assaulted a certain con­siderable city called Ramah, which was fortyfurlongs distant from Jerusalem; and whenhe had taken it, he fortified it; having pre­viously determined to leave a garrison in it,that they might thence make excursions, anddo mischief to the kingdom of Asa. Hereupon Asa was afraid of the attemptsthe enemy might make upon him; and, con­sidering with himself how many mischiefs thisarmy that was left in Ramah might do to thecountry over which he reigned, he sent am­bassadors || to the king of the Damascens,with gold and silver, desiring his assistance,and putting him in mind that they had afriendship together,§ from the times of theirforefathers. So he gladly received that sumof money; and made a league with him, andbrake the friendship he had with Baasha,and sent the commanders of his own forcesunto the cities that were under Baasha's do­minion; and ordered them to do them mis­chief. So they went and burnt some of them,and spoiled others: Ijon, Dan, and Abel-maim,** and many others. Now when the king of Israel heard this, * Here is a very great error in our Hebrew copy inthis place, 2 Chron. xvi. 3—6. as applying what followsto times past, and not in times future. t 2 Chron. xv. 8. voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26. I An. 954. II About an. 937. § See 1 Kings xix. 15—xx. 34. ** This Abelmaim, or in Josephus's copy, Abellane,3 1