OCR Output Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 285 Antony took fifteen of them and put them into custody, whomhe was also going to kill presently, and the rest he drove awaywith disgrace, on which occasion a still greater tumult arose atJerusalem ; so they sent again a thousand ambassadors to Tyre,where Antony now abode, as he was marching to Jerusalem;upon these men, who made a clamour, he sent out the governorof Tyre, and ordered him to punish all that he could catch ofthem, and to settle those in the administration whom he had madetetrarchs. 7. But before this, Herod and Hyrcanus went out upon thesea-shore, and earnestly desired of these ambassadors that theywould neither bring ruin upon themselves, nor war upon theirnative country, by their rash contentions ; and when they grewstill more outrageous, Antony sent out armed men, and slew agreat many, and wounded more of them ; of whom those thatwere slain were buried by Hyrcanus, as were the wounded putunder the care of physicians by him; yet would not those thathad escaped be quiet still, but put the affairs of the city into suchdisorder, and so provoked Antony, that he slew those whom hehad in bonds also. CHAP. XIII. The Parthians firing Antigonus lack into Judca, and cast Hyrca­nus and Phasaelus into prison. The flight of Herod, and thetaking of Jerusalem, and what Hyrcanus and Phasaelus suffer­ed. $ 1. "VTOW two years afterward, when Barzapharnes, a gover--*• nor among the Parthians, and Pacorus, the king's son,had possessed themselves of Syria, and when Lysanias had al­ready succeeded upon his father Ptolemy the son of Menneus'sdeath, in the government [of Chalcis], he prevailed with the go­vernor, by a promise of a thousand talents, and five hundred wo­men, to bring back Antigonus to his kingdom, and to turn Hyr­canus out of it. Pacorus was by these means induced so to do,and marched along the sea coast, while he ordered Barzapharnesto fall upon the Jews as he went along the Mediterranean partof the country ; but of the maritime people the Tyrians wouldnot receive Pacorus, although those of Ptolemais and Sidon hadreceived him ; so he committed a troop of his horse to a certainpup-bearer belonging to the royal family, of his own name [Pa­corus], and gave him orders to march into Judea, in order tolearn the state of affairs among their enemies, and to help Anti-gpnus when he should want his assistance. 2. Now, as these men were ravaging Carmel, many of the Jews ran