OCR Output CHAP. 58. ROMAN HISTORY. 101 ened her also with infamy; he told her, that he wouldkill one of her slaves, lay him naked by her when shewas dead, and then declare to all the world, that he hadkilled her catched in adultery with the slave. The dreadof infamy, was as powerful in overcoming her obstinatevirtue, as the most irritating inclination. Tarquin hadhis wishes; and set out in triumph, for having robbed alady of her virtue. Lucretia sunk under the pressure of her misfortune,dispatches a messenger to her father at Rome, with or-. ders to go immediately from thence, to her husband inthe camp at Ardea, desiring them to meet her, and witheach a faithful friend ;-^-that no time must be lost, be­cause something very extraordinary had happened. Spu-rius Lucretius came, accompanied with Publius Valerius,the son of Volesus; and Collations, with Lucius JuniusBrutus, with whom he was returning to Rome, whenhe met his wife's messenger. He found Lucretia sittingquite disconsolate in her bed-chamber. The momentthey entered the room she burst into tears. When herhusband put the question, "Are you well enough?"*' Not at all," said she; " the woman who has lost her"honour, can, in no sense of the word be well. Ano-"ther, my Collatinus, hath defiled your bed. But though"my body is polluted, my soul is without stain. Of«« this my death shall seal the truth. But give me your<• right hands, and your promise, that the adulterer shall"not go unpunished. It is Sextus Tarquinius, who. v came hither last night with the air of a friend, but"with the heart of a fiend; and, in arms, obtained by"force, a pleasure, fatal to me,—and to him—if you"are only men." All of them gave their promise, in order as they stood;and endeavoured to divert her melancholy, by excusingher who was forced, and loading him with the blame,who was the author of the guilt: arguing, that therecould be no crime, where there was no intention: for, itis the soul that sins, the body cannot. "I leave it to"my friends," said she, " to consider what is due to him;"for my own part, though I can justly acquit myself"from the guilt, I will not exempt myself from the pu-"nishment; nor shall any woman hereafter survive her