OCR Output ys LIVY. Laving gone from Demetrias to Scotussa, and settingout thence at the third watch, dislodged the guard,routed the ^Etolians who kept possession of the passof Thermopylae, and drove the dismayed enemy toHeraclea, accomplishing in one day a march of abovesixty miles to Elatia in Phocis. About the same timethe city of Opus was taken and plundered by Attalus.Sulpicius had given it up to the king, because Oreumhad been sacked a few days before by the Roman sol­diers, and his men had received no share. After theRoman fleet had retired to Oreum, Attalus, not ap­prised of Philip's approach, wasted time in levyingcontributions from the principal inhabitants; and sounexpected was his coming, that, had not some Cre­tans, who happened to go in quest of forage fartherfrom the town than usual, espied the enemy, he mighthave been surprised. Without arms, and in the ut­most confusion, he fled precipitately to his ships. Justas they were putting off from the land, Philip cameup, and though he did not advance from the shore, yethis arrival caused a good deal of confusion among themariners. From thence he returned to Opus, inveigh­ing against gods and men for his disappointment inhaving the opportunity of striking so important a blowthus snatched from him, and when almost within reachof his arm. The Opuntians, also, he rebuked in angryterms, because, although they might have prolongedthe siege until he arrived, yet they had immediately,on sight of the enemy, made almost a voluntary sur­render. Having put affairs at Opus in order, he pro­ceeded thence to Thronium. On the other side, At­talus at first retired to Oreum, but having heard therethat Prnsias, king of Bithynia, had invaded his king­dom, he laid aside all attention to the affairs ofthe Romans and the jEtolian war, and passed overinto Asia. Sulpicius, too, withdrew his fleet to Mgi-na, from whence he had set out in the beginning ofspring. Philip found as little difficulty in possessinghimself of Thronium, as Attalus had met at Opus.This city was inhabited by foreigners, natives of