OCR Output an. 782.] 351 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. dom nine years;* but was a wicked man,and a despiser of the divine worship. AndShalmaneser, king of Assyria, made an expe­dition against him, and overcame him (whichmust have been because he had not Godfavorable nor assistant to him,) and broughthim to submission, and ordered him to pay anappointed tribute. Now in the fourth yearof the reign of Hoshea, Hezekiah,f the sonof Ahaz, began to reign in Jerusalem; andhis mother's name was Abijah, a citizen ofJerusalem. His nature was good, and reli- fious. For when he came to the kingdome thought nothing more necessary, or moreadvantageous to himself, and to his subjects,than to worship God. Accordingly he as­sembled the people, and the priests and theLevites, and made a speech to them, andsaid, " You are not ignorant how by the sinsof my father, who transgressed that sacred honour which was due to God, you have hadexperience of many and great miseries; whileyou were corrupted in your mind by him;and were induced to worship those which hesupposed to be gods. I exhort you, there­fore, who have learned by sad experience howdangerous a thing impiety is, to put that imme­diately out of your memory; and to purifyyourselves from your former pollutions; andto open the temple to these priests and Le­vites who are here convened; and to cleanseit with the accustomed sacrifices, and torecover all the ancient honour which ourforefathers payed to it. For by this meanswe may render God favourable; and he willremit the anger he hath had towards us." When the king had said this, the priestsopened the temple; and when they had setin order the vessels of God, and had cast outwhat was impure, they laid the accustomed years, verse, 33, it may be questioned, whether some ofthe copies in the days of Josephus had not hereaboutssome different numbers; and that according to thosenumbers Pekah might hare been slain about the sametime that Ahaz died; though possibly Josephus mightuse these words, "about the same time," in a looseracceptation. * From an. 737 to 728. t Of Ahaz it is recorded, that he was but twenty yearsold when he began to reign, and that he reigned sixteenbefore he died; so that in the whole he lived six andthirty years, 2 Kings xvi. 2. Now his son Hezekiah issaid to have been five and twenty years old when hebegan to reign, 2 Kings xviii. 2. and, consequently, hisfather must have begot him when he was eleven years old,which seems a HtUe incredible: and to solve this diffi­culty, commentators have taken several ways. Somehave imagined that Hezekiah was not the real, but adoptedson only of Ahaz, and might therefore succeed his fosterfather, at this or any other age; but this hypothesis, asBochart observes, spoils the descent of our Saviour fromDavid. Others suppose, that there was an interregnumfor some years occasioned by a sedition that happened inJerusalem. But there is no foundation for this hypothesisin history; on the contrary it is much more likely, that,as Hezekiah was a man grown, and greatly beloved bythe people, he should immediately succeed upon hisfather's demise. Others imagine, that, in the detestationof Ahaz's wickedness his reign is omitted in this account,and that therefore the passage should be thus rendered :—Ahaz was twenty years old when his father began toreign. But this is reversing the order of the words in thetext, and turning them into a sense that is fir from beingnatural. Others, not satisfied with any of these solutions,will needs have it, that there is an error crept into thetext itself by the negligence of some transcriber, whoinstead of twenty, made Hezekiah five and twenty yearsold, when his reign commenced, merely by mistaking thenumerical letters, (which are most liable in variation,) tofind any fault with the text except where there is no other tolerable solution, which is not the case here. In thesedays, and long before, it was no unusual thing, upon se­veral considerations, for kings to take the son who was tosucceed them into partnership with them before they died.Now, Ahaz, by his mismanagement, had brought himselfinto so many intanglements, 2 Chron. xxviii. 16, &.c. andxxix. 7, &c. as to want an assistant in the government,and, accordingly, it appears that he admitted his son inthat capacity. For, whereas, it is said of Hezekiah, thathe began to reign in the third year of Hoshea son ofElah, 2 Kings xviii. 1. and of Hoshea, that he began toreign in the twelfth year of Ahaz, 2 Kings xvii. 1. it isevident that Hezekiah began to reign in the fourteenthyear of Ahaz his father, and so reigned two or three yearsbefore his father's death. So that, at the first date of hisreign, which was in conjunction with his father, he mightbe two or three and twenty, and his father consequentlywhen he begot him, two or three years older than thecommon computation. But there is another way of solv­ing this difficulty. It is a common thing, both in sacredand profane authors, in the computation of time, to takeno notice, whether the year they mention be perfect orimperfect, whether finished or but newly begun. Uponthis account Ahaz might be near one and twenty yearsold when he began to reign, and near seventeen yearsolder when he died: and on the other hand, Hezekiah,when he began to reign, might be but just entering intohis five and twentieth year, and by this means, Ahaz mightbe near fourteen years old when he begat Hezekiah, whichis no extraordinary thing at all. Nay, even upon thelowest supposition, that he was but eleven or twelve yearsold, yet instances are innumerable (such as Bochart andothers have given) of persons that have procreated chil­dren at that age: for it is not so much the number ofyears, as the nature of the climate, the constitution of thebody, the stature of the person, the quality of the diet, &cthat ought to be considered in this affair. Bochart's Phaleg. p. 920. Miller'$ History of the Church, p. 201. Bedford's Scripture Chronology; Patrick's and Caltntt't Com-mentaries. B.