OCR Output 154= THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. Renewal of life. Metellus, however, was resolved and perhaps eventhe war. instructed not to terminate the war except with the uncon­ditional subjugation and execution of the daring client-prince; which was in fact the only issue that could satisfythe Romans. Jugurtha since the victory over Albinus wasregarded as the deliverer of Libya from the rule of thehated foreigners; unscrupulous and cunning as he was, andunwieldy as was the Roman government, he might at anytime even after a peace rekindle the war in his nativecountry ; tranquillity would not be secured, and the removalof the African army would not be possible, until kingJugurtha should cease to exist. Officially Metellus gaveevasive answers to the proposals of the king; secretly heinstigated the envoys to deliver their master dead or aliveto the Romans. But, when the Roman general undertookto compete with the African in the field of assassination, hethere met his master; Jugurtha saw through the scheme,and, when he could not help himself, prepared for a despe­rate resistance.Battle on Beyond the utterly barren mountain-range, over whichthe Muthul. jay the route of the Romans into the interior, a wide plaineighteen miles broad extended as far as the river Muthul,which ran parallel to the mountain-chain. The plain wasdestitute of water and of trees except in the immediatevicinity of the river, and was only intersected by a ridge ofhills covered with low brushwood. On this ridge of hillsJugurtha awaited the Roman army. His troops werearranged in two masses; the one, including a part of theinfantry and the elephants, under Bomilcar at the pointwhere the ridge abutted on the river, the other, embracingthe flower of the infantry and all the cavalry, higher uptowards the mountain-chain, concealed by the bushes. Ondebouching from the mountains, the Romans saw the enemyin a position completely commanding their right flank; and,as they could not possibly remain on the bare and arid crestof the chain and were under the necessity of reaching theriver, they had to solve the difficult problem of gaining thestream through the entirely open plain of eighteen miles'breadth, under the eyes of the enemy's horsemen and withoutlight cavalry of their own. Metellus despatched a detach­ment under Rufus straight towards the river, to pitch acamp there; the main body marched from the defiles of themountain-chain in an oblique direction through the plain