OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 805 Ltrou (Saet. Aug. 29; Dion Can. liii. is !<*. Ancjr.) These far-famed libraries were quite4..na uatiiaUons, as appears from monumentalDcijdaa to slaves and freedmen attached tolav, «so are mentioned as "a Bibliotbeca Latina,ptluii«," or, "a Bibliotlieca Graeca Palatina"Kutiaiu in Graevius, Thet. iii. col. 305; Orell.**v. 40, 41X Id them were the basts or clipeatae■aywa of distinguished authors. (Tac .U/r ii.I) fMpruas, in a short poem (iii. 29), has•a at rind a description of the whole building,at '» cannot do better than insert its— "cjostrij cur reniam tibi tardior? Aurea Phoebo I'articus a magno Caesare aperta fuit.Tvta erat to speciem Poenis digesta columnis Inter quas Danai femina turba senis.H:e npiideni Phoebo visus mihi pulchrior ipso Mimwreus tacita carmen hiare lyra.A: |M mm dream steterant armenta Myronis i,"utour arti6cis, vivida signs, boves.Tarn median) claro surgebat marmore templum Et patha Phoebo carius Ortygia.b Sofia erat supra fastigia currus Et vahrae Libyci nobile dentis opus.A..vra dejectos Parnassi Venice Gallos Ahera nwerebat funera Tantalidos.limit inter mat rem deus atque inter sororem Pythias in longa carmina veste sonat." ■an we learn that the columns of the portico • 4 African marble, and between them stoodmm ef the fifty daughters of Danaos (cf. Ovid.«e. u. i. 4.) According to Acron, fifty eques-a tfataes of the sons of Danaus also stood in the ■ 'tace. (Schol. ad Pert. ii. 56.) The temple • -j» -f solid white marble from Luna (Car­s', (Jar. Virg. Am. viii. 720.) The statue.*< to by I'ropertiua as "Phoebo pulchrior'*as that of Augustus himself, which repre­ss sua in the dress and attitude of Apollo.»* Cruq. ad lior. Ep. i 3, 17: Serv. ad Virg.1. 10.) 1b the library was also a colossal■> tfatn* of Apollo, 50 feet in height (Plin.'• In. as well as many precious works of (Ik. ixxir. 8, xxxrii. 5, &c.) The Sibylline • preserved in the temple (Suet. Aug. 31;d. lUrcxxiii- 3) befor ewhich was the spaciousi rafted the Auu Apolums. obi all these notices we may gather some idea oftimlmm of this celebrated temple; but its exactas wall as that of the Palace of Augustus,twurr clearly intimated. From several pas-h tuerrer, which hare been cited when dis-or Urn sitnmtioo of the Porta Mugionis, we mayfntry accurately that the latter must liaveat xm NK. aide of the Palatine, between theef Teas mad Um temple of Vesta. (S. Mariaismre.) It appears from a passage in Ovidh lroarc pari/ TritL iii. 1. 59), tii.it the ■ aval have lain some way beyond tlie palace,can seems to be no reason why we may not a aear h". Teoduro, though it stood perhaps • emut of the hill. T his seems to be theauatoi in the Xotitia. The temple is there- s»iis Apolliois JCJuimmtni"—an epithet notn.aainnrl. notwithstanding the attempt of r(ifasM«wav, p. 182); although there can he nor^a: the temple built by Augustus is meant,tw asnat nWiimrnt a Domus Tibkriasa, or■s Tiberias, is mentioned as distinct from that~->a»; a hooae, indeed, which be probably inherited, as he was born on the Palatine. (Suet.Tib. 5.) In his youth, when he lived in a quiet,retired manner, lie first inhabited the house ofPompey in the Carina*, and afterwards that ofMaecenas on the Esquilinc (/6. 15); but when hebecame emperor, it is most probable that he residedon the Palatine, till he secluded himself in the islandof Capreae. The Domus Tiberiana must have stoodnear the NW. corner of the Palstine, since it isdescribed as affording an exit into the Velabrum (" perTiberianam domum in Velabrum," Tac Hut. i. 27).Suetonius, speaking of the same departure of Otho,says that he hastened out at the back of the palace(" proripuit se a postica parte l'alatii," Otho, 6); fromwhich passages it would appear that the two palaceswere connected together, that of Augustus being themore conspicuous towards the forum, whilst that ofTiberius formed the back front. It was from the latterthat Vitellius surveyed the storming of the Capitol.(Suet. Kit 15.) At a later period of the Empire wefind a Bibuotiieca mentioned in the palace of Ti­berius, which had probably superseded the PalatineLibrary, as the latter is no longer mentioned. (A.Gell. xiii. 19; Vopisc. Prob. 2.) All these build­ings must, of course, have been destroyed in the fire ofNero; but we must assume that, after they were re­built, the Domus August) et Tibcrii still continuedto be distinguished, as they are mentioned as separatebuildings in the Notitia; and indeed Josephus ex­pressly says that the different parts of the complexof buildings forming the imperial palace were namedafter their respective founders. (Ant. Jud. xix. 1.§15)- On or near the Palatine we must also place theTkmplum Auousti — one of the only two publicworks which Tiberius undertook at Rome, the otherbeing the MM of the theatre of Pompey. Eventhese he did not live to finish, but left them to liecompleted and dedicated by Caligula. (Tac. Ann.vi. 45; Suet. Tib. 47, Cat. 21.) The circumstanceof Caligula using this temple as a sort of pier forhis bridge to the Capitoline makes it doubtfulwhether it could have stood on the Palntine hill.(Suet. /*. 22.) Yet Pliny (xii. 42) alludes toit as "in Palatii templo;" and if it was not exactlyon the summit of the bill, it could not have beenvery far from it. Becker conjectures that theBridge of Camgui-a passed over the BasilicaJulia; but the only proof is, that Caligula wasaccustomed to fling money to the |ieople from theroof of the basilica, which he might have ascendedwithout a bridge. (Suet. Ccii 37, Jos. Ant.Jud. xix. 1. § 11.) The bridge, perhaps, did notstand very long. Caligula seems to have made ex­tensive alterations in the imperial palace, thoughwe cannot trace the n accurately. (" Bis vidimusurbem totam cingi domibus principum Caii etNeronis," Plin. xxxvi. 24. s. 5.) We have alreadymentioned that he connected the temple of Castorwith it. Yet in his time there must have beenstill some private dwellings on the NE. side ofthe Palatine, as Pliny mentions that the lotus-trees belonging to the house of Crassus at that spotlasted till the fire of Nero. (Ib. xvii. I.) Theenormous buildings of the last-named emperorprubably engrossed the whole of the Palatine; at allevents we hear no more of private houses thereafter the commencement of his reign. We havealready adverted to Nero's two palaces. The first ofthese, or Donua Traxsitouia, with its gardens,though not finished iu the same style of splendour 3 F 3