OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 185 might have happened, had the Cimbrians immediately aftertheir double victory advanced through the gates of the Alpsinto Italy. But they first overran the territory of the Arverniwho laboured to defend themselves in their fortresses againstthe enemy; and soon, weary of sieges, set out from thence,not to Italy, but westward to the Pyrenees. If the torpid organism of the Roman polity could still be The Romanbrought to recover of itself its healthy action, that recovery opposition,could not but take place now, when, by one of the marvellouschances in which the history of Pome is so rich, the dan­ger was sufficiently imminent to rouse all the energy andall the patriotism of the burgesses, and yet did not burstupon them so suddenly as to leave no space for the develop­ment of their resources. But the very same phenomenawhich had occurred four years previously after the Africandefeats, presented themselves afresh. In fact the Africanand Gallic disasters were essentially of the same kind. Itmay be that primarily the blame of the former fell moreon the oligarchy as a whole, that of the latter more on indi­vidual magistrates; but public opinion justly recognized inboth, above all things, the bankruptcy of the government,which, in its progressive development placed in jeopardy firstthe honour and now the very existence of the state. Peoplejust as little deceived themselves then as now regarding thetrue seat of the evil, but as little now as then did they makeeven an attempt to apply the remedy at the proper point.They saw well that the system was to blame; but this time War of pro-also they adhered to the method of calling individuals to secutions.account. Doubtless, however, this second storm dischargeditself on the heads of the oligarchy so much the moreheavily, as the calamity of 649 exceeded in extent and peril 105.that of 645. The sure instinctive feeling of the public, that 109.there was no resource against the oligarchy except thetyrannis, was once more apparent in their readily yieldingto every attempt by officers of note to tie the hands of thegovernment and, under one form or another, to overturnthe oligarchic rule by a dictatorship. It was against Quintus Caepio that their attacks werefirst directed; and justly, in so far as he had primarilyoccasioned the defeat of Arausio by his insubordination,even apart from the probably well-founded but not provedcharge of embezzling the Tolosan booty; but the furywhich the opposition displayed against him was essentially