OCR Output An. 91.] 489 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tious against him. For at a festival whichwas then celebrated, when he stood upon thealtar, and was going to sacrifice, the nationrose upon him, and pelted him with citrons,which they then had in their hands; becausethe law of the Jews required, that at the feastof tabernacles every one should have branchesof the palm and citron-tree: which things wehave* elsewhere related. They also reviledhim, as tderived from a captive; and so un­worthy of his dignity, and of sacrificing. Atthis he was in a rage, and slew about six thou­sand of them. He also built a partition wallof wood round the altar, and the temple; asfar as that partition; within which it was onlylawful for the priests to enter.J And by thismeans he obstructed the multitude fromcoming at him. He also maintained foreignersof Pisidia and Cilicia. For as to the Syrians,he was at war with them, and so made no useof them. He also overcame the Arabians;such as the Moabites, and Gileadites, andmade them bring tribute. Moreover he de­molished Amathus: while ||Theodorus durstnot fight with him. But as he had joinedbattle with Obedas, king of the Arabians, andfell into an ambush, in places that were rug­ged and difficult to be travelled over, hewas thrown down into a deep valley, by themultitude of the camels, at Gadara, a villageof Gilead, and hardly escaped with his life.From thence he fled to Jerusalem; where, be­sides his other ill success, the nation insultedhim, and he fought against them six years, andslew no fewer than fifty thousand of them.And when he desired that they would desistfrom their ill will to him, they hated him somuch the more, on account of what had al­ready happened. And when he had askedthem what he ought to do? They all cried out,that he ought to kill himself. They also sent toDemetrius Eucerus, and desired him to makea league of mutual defence with them. CHAP. XIV. OF THE AFFAIRS OF DEMETRIUS EUCERUS AND ALEXANDER;ALSO CONCERNING THE DEATH OF DEMETRIUS. OW Demetrius came with an army, andtook those that invited him with him; N * See Book III. chap. 10. t This reproach upon Alexander, that he was sprungfrom a captive, seems only the repetition of the Phari­saical calumny upon bis father. Chap. 10. and pitched his camp near the city Shechem.Upon which Alexander, with his six thousandtwo hundred mercenaries, and about twentythousand Jews, who were of his party, wentagainst Demetrius; who had three thousandhorsemen, and forty thousand footmen. Greatexertions were made on both sides; Deme­trius trying to bring off the mercenaries thatwere with Alexander, because they wereGreeks; and Alexander endeavouring to bringoff the Jews that were with Demetrius. How­ever, when neither of them could persuadethem so to do, they came to a battle, in whichall Alexander's mercenaries were killed,when they had given demonstration of theirfidelity and courage. A great number ofDemetrius's soldiers were slain also, notwith­standing he gained the victory. Now as Alexander fled to the mountains,six thousand of the Jews came together tohim from Demetrius out of pity at the changeof his fortunes. Hereupon Demetrius retiredout of the country, after which the Jews foughtagainst Alexander: but being beaten, theywere slain in great numbers, in the severalbattles which they had. And when he hadshut up the most powerful of them in the cityBethome, he besieged them therein. Andwhen he had taken the city, and gotten themen into his power, he brought them to Jeru­salem; and committed a most barbarous ac­tion. For as he was feasting with his concu­bines, in the sight of all the city, he causedabout eight hundred of them to be crucified:and while they were living he ordered thethroats of their wives and children to be cutbefore their eyes. This inhuman punishmentwas indeed by way of revenge for the injuriesthey had done him: for he had, by theirmeans, come to the last degree of hazard, bothof his life, and of his kingdom: while theywere not satisfied by themselves only to fightagainst him; but introduced foreigners alsofor the same purpose. Nay, at length theyreduced him to that degree of necessity, thathe was compelled to deliver back to the kingof Arabia, the land of Moab and Gilead,which he had subdued, and the places thatwere in them; that they might not join with J An. 91. II This Theodorus was the son of Zeno; and was inpossession of Amathus.