OCR Output PQOEXICIA. 019 rnoENicus. , ;is Mai, where Clandian (BeU. Cfltt 520)vtijoss Canlis is founded hy the Tyrians, in con-:.t .Juetiui to Sold, founded by the Carthaginian*,.ttj [hf ootni of Aec-osus (/pica) seem to denoteI* .<rjpiiioo of it by the Phoenicians, since theyten nikus of the Csbiriac worship. Tit my airly iotercoone between Phoenicia andu* rata *f Sfain is attested by the mention off tanesiua, in the 10th chap, of Genesis,b » ub> purport U tlie legend of the expedition•'grainmine Chrysanr, the father of Ueryon,iu of eoarse naval, and which sailed fromDn (Hiroi ir. S; Died, iv. 17, sqq. v. 1", &c.)IV mad of Diolocus leads us to conclude thatks «a so earlier colony than some of the inter-The Phoenicians had noccri-d on a commercial intercourse withi lug before the foundation of Gadeira orSab. The date of the latter event can be ascer-eah very remarkable accuracy. Velleiusi (I 2J informs as Uiat it was founded a'jva Wore Utica; and from Aristotle (</eW Amil, c 146) we learn that Utica was■aw) tt" years before Carthage. Now as theaw ciy meat have been founded at least 800S9s.uk follows that Gadeira must hare beenhi isovt eleven centuries before our aera. Thei Hercules, or Melcarth, at this place re-isti. ma o»d to the time of Silius Italicus, the> i.« nt» of Phoenician worship; tlie fane liad■tsars, sad the only risible symbol of a god wasr»*-t,irrjsjj fire; the ministering priests were■ate! sad dsd in linen, and the entrance of■»* sal swine was prohibited. {Punic iii. 22,I t«i before this period, however, it hads» to Be s Phoenician colony; for tlie Phocaeans*ea«i to Tsrteatus in the time of Cyrus, aboutI ■ C loud it aa independent state, governeda> «>s king Argantbonins. (Herod. L 163.) ■ rsm towns were doubtless founded in tlieI* xu by the Phoenicians; but tlie subsequenta«.a of the country by the Carthaginiansk*i i*. iiTruli to determine which were Punicfirs genuine Phoenician. It is probable, ■w that those in which the worship of Her-■« of the Cabiri, can be traced, as Carteia,■a ^iti, Ac., were of Tyrian foundation. Tosad long continued connection witli Phoc-i »- nay perhaps ascribe that superior civili- ■ ** rjsseraorable use of writing which Strabol&i otaerrai among tlie Tunluli and Tur- is the Atlantic, it is possible that theat tansy hare had settlements in the Cosai-sv w tia districts on the coast of Cornwall and■»"» MraaV,' and that northwards they may'their voyages as far as tlie Baltic ineater. [Bbjtasxicae Iks. Vol. I. p. 433,I 'C**f Hasten, Researches, dx. ii. pp. 53,68.)has pants rest principally on conjecture,v m wi decided traces of Phoenician occu-• •« the KW. at Atlantic wast of Africa,a, Sai Csraa, was one of the Pillars of Hercules,*■ traps at Lixus in Mauritania was said tom •■■a than that at Gadeira. (Plin. xix. 4.1 Tsip was founded by Antaeus, with whom■"» ■ Ussd to have combated (Mela, i. 5; AWOT coast ofthe of the Phoenicians, (.'erne ■» a tttai to hare combated (Mela, i.■*• r 140); and the Sinus Emporicus («-oA«-Sixb. xvii. 827), on the W. coast"-^a lecst to have been so named from t was trie limit of their voyages on this coast; hut thesituation of Came is still a subject of discussion.[Ckrsk.] With regard to their colonies on the N. or Medi­terranean coast of Africa, Strabo (i. p. 48) tells usthat the Phoenicians occupied the middle parts ofAfrica soon after the Trojan War, and they wereprobably acquainted with it much sooner. Theirearliest recorded settlement was Itace, or Utica, onthe western extremity of what was afterwards calledthe gulf of Carthage, the date of which has beenalready mentioned. Pliny (xvi. 79) relates that thecedar beams of the temple of Apollo at Utica badlasted since its foundation, 1178 years before histime; and as Pliny wrote about 78 years after thebirth of Christ, this anecdote corroborates the datebefore assigned to the foundation of Gades andUtica. The Phoenicians also founded other townson this coast, as Hippo, Hadrumetum, Leptis, See.(Sail. Jug. c. 19), and especially Carthage, onwhich it is unnecessary to expatiate here. [Car­thago.] The principal modern works on Phoenicia arc,Bochart's Geoyraphia Sacra, a performance of un­bounded learning, but tlie conclusions of which, fromthe defective state of critical and ethnographicalscience at the time when it was written, cannotalways be accepted; Gesenius, Monumtnta Phoe­nicia; Movers, article Phonizien, in Ersch andGruber 8 Encyclopddie, and especially his work ItiePhonizier, of which two volumes are published, butwhich is still incomplete; snd Mr. Kenrick's Phoe­nicia, 8vo. London, 1855, to which the compiler ofthis article is much indebted The reader may slsoconsult with advantage Ilengstenberg, IM RebutTyriorum, Berlin, 1832, and Beitrage zur Einlei-tung in das A lie Testament; Heeren, Historical Re­searches, d-c. vol. ii. Oxford, 1833; Grote, HUtoryof Greece, vol. iii. ch. 18; Forbiger, Ilandbuch diralien Geographie, vol. ii. p. 659, sqq.: Russegger,Reisen; Burckhardt, Syria; Robinson, BiblicalResearches, &c. [T. H. D.] PHOENI'CE. [Phila.] PHOENI'CIS. [Medbon, No. 3.] PHOENI'CIUS MONS. [Boeotia, p. 412, a ] PHOENTCUS (Oomaouj). 1. A port of Ionia,at the foot of Mount Mimas. (Thucyd. viii. 34.)Livy (xxxvi. 45) notices it in his account of thenaval operations of the Romans and their alliesagainst Antiochus (comp. Stcph. B. s. v.); but itsidentification is not easy, Leake {Asia Minor, p. 263)regarding it as the same as tlie modem port ofTihesme, and Hamilton (Researclics, ii. p. 5) as theport of Egri-Limen. 2. A port of Lycin, a little to the east of Fatara;it was scarcely 2 miles distant from the latter place,and surrounded on all sides by high cliffs. In thewar against Antiochus a Roman fleet took its stationthere with a view of taking Patara. (Liv. xxxvii.16.) Beaufort {Karamania, p. 7) observes thatLivy's description answers accurately to the bay ofKalumahi. As to Mount Phoenicus in I.ycia, seeOlympus, Vol. II. p. 480. [L S.] PHOENl'CUS. [Phtcus ] PUOEM'CUS (*oif«oi;i AiVijf, Strab. xvii.p. 799; Ptol. ir. 5. § 7; Stadiasm. § 12), a har­bour of Marmsrica, off which there were tlie twoislands 1)ii>ymae. which must not be confoundedwith those which Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 76) places offthe Chersonesus Parra on the coast of Aegypt. Itsposition must be sought between Psigkus ix\»rytvs,