OCR Output 250 DESERTIONS FROM [b. VI. with him, they were but the more exasperated against theRomans on this account, and were desirous to get Josephusalso into their power : yet did that discourse influence a greatmany of the better sort; and truly some of them were soafraid of the guards set by the seditious, that they tarriedwhere they were, but still were satisfied that both they andthe city were doomed to destruction. Some also there were,who, watching a proper opportunity when they might quietlyget away, fled to the Romans, of whom were the high-priestsJoseph and Jesus, and of the sons of high-priests three, whosefather was Ishmael, who was beheaded in Cyrene, and foursons of Matthias, as also one son of the other Matthias, whoran away after' his father's death, and whose father wasslain by Simon, the son of Gioras, with three of his sons,as I have already related; many also of the other nobilitywent over to the Romans, together with the high-priests.Now Caesar not only received these men very kindly in otherrespects, but, knowing they would not willingly live after thecustoms of other nations, he sent them to Gophna, and de­sired them to remain there for the present, and told them,that when he was gotten clear of this war, he would restoreeach of them to their possessions again: so they cheerfullyretired to that small city which was allotted them, withoutfear of any danger. But as they did not appear, the seditiousgave out again that these deserters were slain by the Romans,which was done in order to deter the rest from running away,by fear of the like treatment. This trick of theirs succeedednow for a while, as did the like trick before; for the restwere hereby deterred from deserting, by fear of the liketreatment. 3. However, wheu Titus had recalled those men fromGophna, he gave orders that they should go round the wall 1 Josephus had before told us, B. v. ch. xiii. sect. I, that this fourth sonof Matthias ran away to the Romans before his father's and brethren-sslaughter, and not after it, as here. The former account is, in all probability,the truest; for had not that fourth eon escaped before the others were caughtand put to death, he had been caught and put to death with them. Thislast account, therefore looks like an instance of a small inadvertence of Jo­sephus in the place before us.