OCR Output aN. 1897.] 33 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. prayed to God that Rebeka might be foundamong them, or her whom Abraham sent himas his servant to espouse to his son, in casehis will were that this marriage should beconsummated; and that she might be madeknown to him by this sign, that while othersdenied him water to drink, she might give ithim. With this intention he went to the well,and desired the maidens to give him somewater to drink: but while the others refused,on pretence that they wanted it all at home,and could spare none for him, one only of thecompany rebuked them for their peevish be­haviour towards the stranger, and said,." What is there that you will ever communi­cate to any body, who have not so much asgiven the man some water?" She then offeredhim water in an obliging manner, and he be­gan to hope that this grand affair would suc­ceed; but desiring still to know the truth, hecommended her for her generosity and goodnature, that she did not scruple to afford asufficiency of water to those who wanted it,though it cost her some pains to draw it. Hethen asked her who were her parents, andwished them joy of such a daughter; "andmayest thou be espoused," said he, " to theirsatisfaction, into the family of an agreeablehusband, and bring him legitimate children."Nor did she disdain to satisfy his enquiriesbut told him her family. "They call me Re­beka," said she: "my father was Bethuel,but he is dead; and Laban is my brother, See also Odyss. lib. x. 105. A similar custom prevailed also in Armenia, as may beseen in Xenophon's Anabasis, b. iv. B. * The weight of the ornaments put upon Rebeka ap­pears extraordinary. But CJiardin assures us, that evenheavier were worn by the women of the East when hewas there. He says that the women wear rings andDracelets of as great weight as this, and even heavier,through all Asia. They are rather manacles than brace­lets. There are some as large as the finger. The womenwear several of them, one above the other, in such amanner as sometimes to have the arm covered with themfrom the wrist to the elbow. Poor people wear as manyof glass or horn. They hardly ever take them off. Theyare their riches. Mariner's Observations, vol. ii. p. 600. Among the several female ornaments which Abrahamsent by his servant, whom he employed to search out awife for his son Isaac, were jewels of silver and jewels ofgold, exclusive of raiment, which probably was very richand valuable for the age in which Abraham lived. Richand splendid apparel, especially such as was adorned withgold, was very general in the eastern nations, from theearliest ages: and as the fashions and customs of the and, together with my mother, takes care ofall our family affairs, and is my guardian."When the servant heard this, he was veryglad at what had happened, and at what wastold him, as perceiving that God had thusplainly directed his journey; and producinghis bracelets,* and some other ornamentswhich it was esteemed decent for virgins towear, he gave them to the damsel, by way ofacknowledgment, and as a reward for herkindness in giving him water to drink, say­ing, it was but just that she should have them,because she was so much more obliging thanany of the rest. She desired also that hewould come and lodge with them since theapproach of the night gave him not time toproceed farther. 1 hen producing his pre­cious ornaments for women, he said, he de­sired to trust them to none more safely, thanto such as she had shewed herself to be; andthat he believed he might guess at the hu­manity of her mother and brother, that theywould not be displeased from the virtue hefound in her, for he would not be burthen-some, but would pay the hire for his enter­tainment, and spend his own money: towhich she replied, that he guessed rightly asto the humanity of her parents, but com­plained that he should think them so par­simonious as to take money, for that heshould have all his wants supplied freely;but she said, she would first inform her bro­ther Laban, and if he gave her leave, shewould conduct him in. Orientals are not subject to much variation, so we findthat this propensity to golden ornaments, prevails even inthe present age, among the females in the countries bor­dering on Judea. Thus Mungo Park, in the account ofhis travels in Africa, mentions the following singular cir­cumstance, respecting the ornamental part of the dress ofan African lady. "It is evident from the account of theprocess by which negroes obtain gold in Manding, that thecountry contains a considerable portion of this preciousmetal. A great part is converted into ornaments for thewomen: and, when a lady of consequence is in full dress,the gold about her person may be worth, altogether, fromfifty to eighty pounds sterling." We find also that the same disposition for rich orna­mental apparel prevailed in the times of the Apostles; forSt. Peter cautioned the females of quality in the first agesof Christianity, when they adorned themselves, not tohave it consist, in the outward adorning, of plaiting the hair,and of wearing gold, or of putting on apparel. 1 Pet. iii.3. See also Psalm xlv. 9, 13. Upon thy right hand didstand the queen in gold of Ophir.—Her clothing is of wroughtgold. B.