OCR Output , 3. ROMAN HISTORY. 207 The H«rnici got intelligence of these motions, andadvised the Romans accordingly, that the Ecetrans hadjoined in a confederacy with the /Equi. The colony ofAntium was likewise suspected, because, when thatcity was taken, many of the inhabitants had fled to thejEqui, and during the war, had signalized themselvesin their service. When after this, the M<\m were com­pelled to take refuge within their walls, these troopsretiring privately-, had retired to Antinrn, and encou­raged the colony, naturally averse to the Roman go­vernment, to shake off' the allegiance entire!y. Astheywere not yet in a condition to throw off the mask,when the senate was informed of their designs, they re­commended to the consuls to send for the principal menof the colony, and demand an explanation. They rea­dily obeyed the summons, and being, 'by the Consuls,introduced to the senate, returned such answers to vheirtjuestions, as rather confirmed than lessened the suspi­cions entertained of there. After this, the war was looked on as certain. Sp.Furius, one of the 'consuls, whose province it was,marched against the .SLijui, and found them busy in lay­ing waste the territories of the Hernici. Unacquaintedwith their numbers, as they had never appeared hi abody, he rashly gave them battle, when his army wasmuch inferior; and consequently been routed at thefirst charge, fled back to his camp. Nor did the dan­ger stop here; for, all the succeeding night, and dayafter, his camp was so closely blocked up, and so fu­riously attacked, that to send intelligence to Rome of hissituation was quite impracticable. The news, however, of the loss ofthe battle, and themanner in which the consul and the army were blockedup in the camp, were transmitted by the Hernici. Somuch was the senate alarmed at this intelligence, thatthey gave it in charge to the other consul, Posthumius,"To take care, that the republic suffered no detriment;"a clause, in acts of the senate, expressive of the utmostdanger. It was judged most prudent, that the consulhimself should remain at Rome, to enlist ail who wereable to bear arms, and to dispatch Titus Quinctius, in