OCR Output 282 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. ditions less unfavourable than at the present day. For theuse of the soil the Hellenes paid here, like the Phoeniciansin Libya, tax and ground-rent to the native rulers. Themost important of these settlements were the free city ofChersonesus (not far from Sebastopol), built on the territoryof the Scythians in the Tauric peninsula (Crimea), and main­taining itself in moderate prosperity under circumstancesfar from favourable by virtue of its good constitution andthe public spirit of its citizens; and Pauticapaeum (Kertch)at the opposite side of the peninsula on the straits leadingfrom the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov, governed since the•297. year 457 u.c. by hereditary burgomasters, afterwards calledkings of the Bosporus, the Archaeanactidae, Spartocidae,and Paerisadae. The culture of corn and the fisheries of theSea of Azov had rapidly raised the city to prosperity. Itsterritory still in the time of Mithradates embraced the lessereastern division of the Crimea including the town of Theo-dosia, and on the opposite Asiatic continent the town ofPhanagoria and the district of Sindice. In better times thelords of Pauticapaeum had ruled the peoples on the east coastof the Sea of Azov and the valley of the Kuban, and hadcommanded the Black Sea with their fleet; but Pauticapaeumwas no longer what it had been. Nowhere was the saddecline of the Hellenic nation felt more deeply than at thesedistant outposts. Athens in its good times had been theonly Greek state which fulfilled there the duties of a lead­ing power—duties which certainly were specially broughthome to the Athenians by their need of Pontic grain.After the downfall of the Attic maritime power these regionswere, on the whole, left to themselves. The Greek land-powers never succeeded in any serious intervention there,although Philip the father of Alexander and Lysimachussometimes attempted it; and the Romans, on whom withthe conquest of Macedonia and Asia Minor devolved thepolitical obligation of becoming the strong protectors ofGreek civilization at the point where it needed such protec­tion, utterly neglected the summons of interest as well ofhonour. The fall of Sinope, the decline of Rhodes, com­pleted the isolation of the Hellenes on the northern shoreof the Black Sea. A vivid picture of their position withreference to the roving barbarians is given to us by an in­scription of Olbia (near Oczakow not far from the mouth ofthe Dnieper), which probably falls somewhere about the