OCR Output THEBAE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 1151 I it 1 peat distance from it. But as Boeotia liesIwtrn two seas, the founders of Thebes chose a4 in the centre of the country, where water was7 plentiful, and where the nature of the ground» admirably adapted for defence. The hill, uponurb the town stands, rises about 150 feet above > j liin, and lies about 2 mile* northward of the;ir?t part of the ridge. It is bounded on the castI west by two small rivers, distant from each other■j! 6 or 7 stadia, and which run in such deep■<na as to farm a natural defence on either sideiIk city. These rivers, which rise a little southtot city, and flow northward into the plaia ofrixs. are the celebrated streams of Ismenus andtt. Between them flows a smaller stream, whichdrd the city into two parts, the western divisionString the Cadmeia*, and the southern the hillwiitis and the Ampheion. This middle torrentalM Cnopus by Leake, but more correctly Strc-» [t'allim. Hymn, m Dtl. 76) by Eorchhaminer. > I'ttopus is a torrent flowing from the towntyu, and contributing to form the Ismenus, whence* (Mrrectly described by the Scholiast on NicanderIV ume as the Ismenus. (Strab. ix. p. 404;xi.i. Thrriae. 889, with Schol.) The threea iv of Kmenus, l>irce, and Strophia unite in |4jin hel»w the city, to which Calliuiachus:.) appears to allude:— I'T^rou xlpa WUTpof. h- middle torrent is rarely mentioned by thewriters; and the Ismenus and Dirce are themi alluded to when Thebes is called ttwdra/wsit. (Eurip. SupyL 622; comp. J'lwen. 825.ri. 5, litre. Fur. 572.) Both the Ismenus Lhrve, though so celebrated in antiquity, are ■ :ri£ hot torrents, which are only full of water in» mter after heavy rains. The Ismenus is the-m stream, now called Ai Idtmi, which risesi a clear and copious fountain, where the smallrvli of St. John stands, from which the river de- ■ ita name. This fountain was called in anti-v Melia, who was represented as the mother ofim and Tenerus, the hero of the plain whichl;i*nus inundates. It was sacred to Ares, who to Iiave stationed a dragon to guard it...:Tiach. Hymn, in Ikl. 80; Spanheitn, ad loc.;I. Pytk. xi. 6; l'aus. ix. 10. § 5; Korchhammer,loam, p. 113.) The Dirce is the western stream,•-ailed I'tatziotutQi which rises from several*iics, aud not from a single one, like the Is-na. A considerable quantity of the water of the.=Wum is now diverted to supply the fountainsd* town, and it is represented as the purest ofThrlaui streams; and it appears to have beenvi'^ed in antiquity likewise, judging from the•■r:\ brstuwrd upon it by the poets, ^tiyniiv; ISnd. Isthm. ri. 109, xaAAi^oor. hlhm. vili.r^wp Atptatuy *vrpaQi<rraJov ww/jultuv, Aescb. e. Theb. 307; aoAAnriro^ot, Eurip. 1'hoen. Cuprni rutin \tvniy. Here. Fur. 578.) ■urh the position of Thebes and of ita cele-i ttreams is certain, almost every point con.*1 with its topography is more or less doubtful.m other cities of Greece, which have been inha- ontiauuusiy. most of the ancient buildings Tn* western division contains two eminences,question as to which of them was the Cad-• will be discussed beluw. have disappeared; but nowhere has this taken placemore completely than at Thebes. Not a single traceof an ancient building remains; and with the ex­ception of a few scattered remains of architectureand sculpture, and some fragments of the ancientwalls, there is nothing but the site to indicate wherethe ancient city stood. In the absence of all ancientmonuments, there must necessarily be great uncer­tainty; and the three writers who have investigatedthe subject upon the Bpot, differ so widely, thatLeake places the ancient city to the south of the Cad­meia, and Ulrichs to the north of it, while Korch-hainmer supposes both the western heights betweenthe Strophia and tile Dirce to have been in a certainsense the Cadmeia, and the lower city to have stoodeastward, between the Strophia and the Ismenus.In the great difficulty of arriving at any independ­ent judgment upon the subject without a personalinspection of the site, we have adopted the hypo­thesis of Korchhammer, which seems consistent withthe statements of the ancient writers. The most interesting point in Theban topogra|>hyis the position of the seven celebrated Theban gates.They are alluded to by Homer (e>^(»nr foot ttt r awi ■kvio, Od. xi. 2C3) and Hesiod (iirrdwvAof S^Sn,Op. 161); and their names are given by seven diffe­rent authors, whose statements will be more easilycompared by consulting the following table. Thenumeral represents the order in which the gates arcmentioned by each writer. The first line gives thenames of the gates, the second the names of the Ar­rive chiefs, the third the emblems upon their shields,and the fourth the names of the Theban chiefs. Nonnus designates five of the gates by the namesof the gods and the planets, and to the other two, towhich he gives the names of Electrae and Oncaea,he also adds their position. Hyginus calls the gatesby the names of the daughters of Amphion; andthat of Ogygia alone agrees with time in the otherwriters. But, dismissing the statements of Non­nus and Hyginus, whose authority is of no valueupon such a question, we find that the remaining fivewriters agree as to the names of all the seven gates,with two or three exceptions, which will be pointedout presently. The position of three of the gatesis quite clear from the description of I'ausanias alone.These are the Klkctuak, Proetidks, and Nei-TAE. Pausonios says that Electrae is the gateby which a traveller from Plataca enters Thebes (ix.8. § 6); that there is a hill, on the right hand ofthe gate, sacred to Apollo, called the Ismenian, sincethe river Ismenus runs in this direction (ix. 10. § 2);and that on the left hand of the gate are the ruinsof a house, where it was said that Amphitryon lived,which is followed by an account of other ancient mo­numents on the Cadmeia (ix. 11. § 1). Hence it isevident that the gate Electrae was in the south of thecity, between the hills kmenius and Cadmeia. Thegate Proetides was on the north-eastern side of thecity, since it led to Chains (ix. 18. § 1). The gateNcitac was on the north-western side of the city, sinceit led to Oncbestus and Delphi; and the river whichI'ausanias crossed, could have been no other thanI the Dirce (ix. 25. §§ 1, 3, ix. 26. § 5). The namesof these three gates are the same in all the fivewriters: the manuscripts of Apollodorus have thecorrupt word 'Oxittat, which has been altered bythe editors into 'Orxattas, instead of N^Itoi, whichwas the reading suggested by Porson {ad. Eurip.Pkoen. 1150), and adopted by Valckenacr. (SeeL'nger, Thebaua J'aradoxa, vol. i. p. 313.)