OCR Output RUSELLAE. RUSP1NUM. 859 'Ai (ii. 5) Dimes the place a Colonia, and so • title appear* on coin*, col. rits, leg. vi.itj alia it "Oppidum Latinoruin." It seemsUn ben a Colonia I-atina.1> ume is incorrectly written Ruscione in thetimet kin. and in the Table. It is placed be.mi Cwibmla [Count sta] and llliberis, and it j-rinsfnted by CasteLHoussillon or the Tour de iwiiiii un the Tet, the ancient Ruscino, a short'u&y from Prrpigntm, the capital of the French ■ctnrut of the J'yrrnert Orientala. Ptrpitjnan • ?~ llie high-road from France into Spain, andn fc iw other great ruud in this part of the Py-■a hung is named Roaciliona in middle age docu--ti. jtiii from this name the inudern name Rout-m is derived. HoussilUm was a province of the'-rttylutiotuuy history of France, and it corre­al' U> the modern drpartment of Pyrenees 11» nrer Ruvino or Ruscinns is the Telis ofa(iLS),the 7VI; and we may probably con-> ttul the true reading in Mela is Tetis. Ther «rs ia tiie Pyrenees, and flows past Perpigntm ■ iu Mediterranean, after a course of about 70» Sjcnetimes it brings down a great quantityntter from the mountains. [ft. L.jASKLLAE (*Poi«r»'AAai: Elk. Rusellanus: Ho-! in ancient and important city of Etruria. akout 14 miles from the sea, and 3 fromn;ht bank of the river Onibrtme (Umbra). In■ob with several of the ancient Etruscan cities, Tery little information concerning its early ■ n, i..«L.'h there is no doubt of its great anti- jr of its having been ut a very early period■erfol and important city. There is everyikury that it was one of the twelve whichs* the Etruscan League (Muiler, Etrunker^ vol.JWl The first mention of it in history isi; Lie reign of Taniiiinius Priscus, when itd with Cloaiam, Arretium, Volaterrae, and- in declaring war against the Roman king,tr*Ti the rest of the confederacy,— a sufficienttaai it mi at that time an independent andBVn stale. (Dionya. iii. 51.) From this time•r m mm of it until the Romans had carried■ran bryond the Ciminian forest, when, in u. c. -itctator M. Valerius Maximus carrieil hisi-ra/er.tly for the first time, into the territoryKv«iiar. and defeated the combined forces of:r_».-»ns who were opposed to him. (Liv. x.A few years later, in n. c. 294, the consul • 1:1,10s MejrdJas not only laid waste the■7 KuseiUie, but took the city itself by Ukmg more than 2000 of the inhabitants1% (Id. x. 37). No other mention of it occurs '■I* period of KtruM-an independence; but; Uat Second Puuic War the Kusellani ureti aiiMmg the " populi Ktruriuc" who came4 with voluntary supplies to equip the fleet of (ar-JOS), and furnished him with timberra (Id. xxviiL 45). It is evident that at thisEasvJb* waa atill one of the principal cities ofa We find no subsequent notice of it under Tin Republic, but it was one of the placesd by Aofvutna to receive a colony (Pun. iii.ZjTipt. 4* C'4"*- p- 347); notwithstanding ■ mw to hare fallen into decay; and though» is mentioned by Ptolemy (iii. 1. § 48) werth an later notice of it in ancient times. It'kewrver, altogether cease to exist till a much later period, as it retained its episcopal see down tothe twelfth century, when it was transferred to theneighbouring town of Groaeto. (Kepetti, Diz. Top.vol. ii. pp. 526, 822.) The site of Rusellae is now wholly desolate andovergrown with thickets, which render it very diffi­cult of access. But the plan may be distinctlytraced, and the line of the ancient walls may befollowed in detached fragments throughout theirentire circuit. It stood on the flat top of a hill ofconsiderable elevation, about 6 miles from the mo­dern city of Grotseto, overlooking the broad valleyof the Ombrone and the level plain of the Ataremma,which extends from thence to the sea. The wallsfollow the outline of the hill, and enclose a space ofubout 2 miles in circuit. They are constructed ofvery rude and massive stones, in some places withan approach to horizontal structure, similar to thatat Volterra and l'opulonia j but in other parts theylose all traces of regularity, and present (accordingto Mr. Dennis) a strong resemblance to the rudestand most irregular style of Cyclopiun construction,as exemplified in the walls of Tiryns in Argolis.(Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. pp. 248, 249.) Thesites of six gates may be traced; but there are noindications of the manner in which the gatewayitself was formed. Within the walls are some frag­ments of rectangular masonry anil some vaults ofRoman construction. It is remarkable that no tracesof the necropolis — so often the most interestingremnant of an Etruscan city — have yet been dis­covered at Ru-ellae. But the site is so wild and solittle visited, that no excavations have been carriedon there. (Dennis, /. c. p. 254.) About 2 miles from the ruins, and 4 from Grot-teto, are tome hot-springs, now called I Jlayni diHostile. On a hill immediately above them are themediaeval ruins of a town or castle called Motcona,which have been often mistaken for those of Husellac.(Dennis, /. c.) [E. II. II] RUSGU'NIA (/Vm.-Inf.; 'PowrroVioy, Ptol. iv.2. § 6), a town of Mauretania, and a colonia, whichlay 15 M. P. to the E. of Icosium. Its ruins havebeen found near Cope MutaJ'u or Temeiulfuz (B irth,Wanderungen, p. 55). For an account of these,see Authmd, 1837, No. 144. [E. B. J.] RUSIOADE (Plin. v. 2; Mela, i. 7. § 1; 'Puufff-koJo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 3; Rusiccade, Itin. Ant., PeuLTab.), the harbour of Cirta in Numidia, and a Romancolonia, at the mouth of the small river TiiAPst;s(Vib. Seq. d« Flum. p. 19: U. So/an), and probablytherefore identical with the Tuafsa (9a^u). nharbour-town, of Scylax (p. 50). Its site is nearSlora; and the modern town of Philippetille, theHds-Skikxlti of the Arabs, is made in jiart of thematerials of the old Rusicade (Barth, Wnndeningen,p. 66). [E. B. J.] RUSIDA'VA. [Dacia, p. 744, b.J RUSPE (feat Tub.; 'PoDnwai al. 'PoD<rir«, Ptol.iv. 3. § 10), a town of Numidia between Ai holla andUsilla, near the Caput Vadokum (Corippus, Jo-hann. i. 366: C. K'ubbdhh). and the toe of Fulgen-tius, well-known in the Pelagian controversy j bewas expelled from it by the Vandal Thrasiinund.Barth (Wmnlerungtn, p. 177) found remains at.ScA<46o. [E. B. J.] RUSPI'NUM ('Poi«nru-o>', Strab. xvii. p. 831;Ruspina, Auct. B. A/r. 6; Plin. v. 3; Prut. Tab.),a town of Africa Proper, where Caesar defeatedScipio, and which he afterwards made his [lositionwhile waiting for reinforcements. It is probably the