OCR Output 940 SCYTHIA. SCYTHIA. {av^p'tyovoC) are tbo most famous. They pottheir art from Aphrodite, as they got their ailment.During the Scythian invasion of Asia, a portion ofthe conquerors plundered the temple of the Aphro­dite Urania in Ascalon, for which sacrilege they andtheir children were afflicted with SyXtiavoitoos, thenames of the sufferers being 'L>ap€«i (i. 105, 106).The nature of tins &j)\eia vovaos has yet to bef-atisfactorily explained. The saceniotal and regal relations are curious.When the king ails he calls his priests, who tell himthat his ailment conies from some one having fore­sworn himself in the greatest oath a Scythian cantake. This is " by the heart It of the king." Takeit falsely, and the king will sicken. Upon sickening,however, lie sends for the offender, whom the priestsbare indicated. The charge is denied. Other priestsare sent fur. If their vaticinations confirm theearlier ones, death and confiscation are the fate ofthe perjurer. Otherwise, a third set is culled.If these agree in the condemnation of the first, aload of faggots, drawn by bullocks, is brought in,the lying priests have their hands bound behindthein, the faggots are set a-Hght to, the beasts aregoaded into a gallop, the flames catch the wind, themen are burnt to death, and the bullocks scorched,dinged, or burnt to death also. The sons of the of­fending perjurer are killed, his daughters leftunhurt. Their oaths were made over a mixture of wineand blood. The swearers to them punctured them­selves, let their blood fall into a vat of wine, drankthe mixture, and dipped in it their daggers, arrows,javelin, and vdyapts. The ferocity exhibited in their burials was of thesame kind. The tombs of the kings were on theGerrhos. Thither they were brought to be buried,wherever they might die. They were entombedwith sacrifices both of beasts and men, Hippo-thimia, Anthrnjxithysia, and Suttee—all these cha­racterised the funeral rites of the Scythians SiKaioro-toi avOpwircav. LANGUAGE.—The specimens of this full into twodivisions, the Proper and the Common Names. Theformer are the names of geographic*] localities andindividuals. In one way or the other, they are nu­merous; at least they apjiear so at first, but werarely are sure that the fact itself coincides withthe first presumptions. The names of the rivershave l>een noticed. Of thoae of the gods, none havebeen definitely traced to any known language in re­spect to their meaning. Neither have they beentraced to any known mythology as Proper Names.Next come the names of certain kings and otherhistorical individuals, none of which have given anyvery satisfactory place for the old Pythian. With the Common Names (and under the class ofCommon Names we may place such Proper Namesas are capable of being translated) the results im­prove, though only slightly. Of these terms thechief are the following:— (i.) 'E^M/intosbSacred Waytmm\pai OSoc, thename of a well-head. [See*. ('"■) Oi6prraTa=ai'5f)oKT6vot= Men-killers, a name applied by theScythians to the Amazons. Here olbp = man,■Karat= kill (ir. 110). (in-) Tevierinda — MaterMaris, applied to the Kuxine. This is not fromHerodotus, hut from Pliny (vi. 7). (iv.) Arimaspi= V[<av6<t>Ba\fxni,= one-eyed — By Mia m one, airov=eye. (Herod, iv. 27 ) These will be consideredunder the head of Ethnology. History.—The Herodotean view of van vr&aais incomplete without a notice of the historical petof his account; not that the two piru are, fef imeans, on the same level in the wit of tinformation. The geography and distriptiaa Ifrom contemporary sources. The history ■ ■less traditional. Taking it, however, at vt MIit falls into two divisions:—1, The Inrasincf Jby the Scythians; and 2, The Urates of Iby Darius. 1. Invasion of Asia by the SeytHans.—hireigns of Cy ax ares king of Media and of £king of Lydia, the Scythians invade AsU. \directly. They had previously invaded the eof the Cimmerians, whom they had driven fiown districts on the Maeolis, and who w»lthrown southwards. The Scythians pressed taeCmerians, the Massagetae the Scythiacause and effect of this kind are much 1historians. It Is only, however, in the clions of history that they can passThe Cimmerians take Sardis during th* art Jof the reign of Ardys (b, c. 629.) They ipelled by Alyattes, his son. (Herod. L!It seems that the Cimmerians were folW*i■their ejectors; inasmuch as fire yi(b. c. 624) the Scythians themselves are u JCyaxares, who was engaged upon the siert ef 1veh (N'iiius), being called back, to oppose Xis defeated; and the Scythians occupy An Iyears, Cyaxares surviving their Heparan*.Media they direct their eoeurs towards Ythe invasion of which ihey are diverted feyflmitichus. Their attack upon the [■•.;>-Venus Urania, in Ascalon, daring theirthough Palestine, along with its iny>terioo»Jhas been already noticed. The king wbe iwas named Madyes. (Her. L 1*0.)ejected B. c. 596. There was a bund of Scythians, however, sin the reign of Croesus, b. c. 58o. the iwhich is as follows. Cyaxares, stillceives a company («&w) of Scjtlpliants, who escape (va-t^r/Atb) from LT«Media. He treats them well, andthem to learn the use of the bow, aioag iScythian language, until lie finds that tof hunting and robbing are intolerable,with a particular act of atrocity,axares to eject them. They fly back to .who refuses to give them up. Butand the quarrel is entailed upon hisThe battle that it led to was foaght Mat |585, when the eclipse predicted byrupted it. The Scythian invasion might easily be Iin its general features to both the Graaka Iand the Jews; and, accordingly. *e £nd Iallusions to an invasion of northern Iin the Scriptures and in the fragments at 1Greek poets, to justify us in treating k .fact, however destitute of confirmationHerodotean details may have iCritical History, ifc. vol. iiL p. 133, sec.)further removed from his time than 2. /nvasion of Scythia by Darims.—It is, ]a more accurate piece of history.Scythia for the sake of inflicting afor the previous invasion of Asia. Tnaa ifallowed, not by any settlement of the ielsewhere, but by a