OCR Output 18 ROMAN EMPIRE. by seasonable gifts; but the murder of Hypatia has im­printed an indelible stain on the character and religionof Cyril of Alexandria.11 Nestorius, Superstition, perhaps, would more gently ex-ofConstan- piate the blood of a virgin, than the banish-Anrj!428, ment of a samt , and Cyril had accompanied hisApril 10. uncle to the iniquitous synod of the oak. Whenthe memory of Chrysostom was restored and conse­crated, the nephew of Theophilus, at the head of a dyingfaction, still maintained the justice of his sentence; norwas it till after a tedious delay, and an obstinate resist­ance, that he yielded to the consentof the Catholic world.*His enmity to the Byzantine pontiffsf was a sense of in­terest, not a sally of passion: he envied their fortunatestation in the sunshine of the imperial court; and hedreaded their upstart ambition, which oppressed themetropolitans of Europe and Asia, invaded the provincesof Antioch and Alexandria, and measured their diocessby the limits of the empire. The long moderation ofAtticus, the mild usurper of the throne of Chrysostom,suspended the animosities of the eastern patriarchs; butCyril was at length awakened by the exaltation of a ri­val more worthy of his esteem and hatred. After theshort and troubled reign of Sisinnius bishop of Constan­tinople, the factions of the clergy and people were ap­peased by the choice of the emperor, who, on this occa­sion, consulted the voice of fame, and invited the meritof a stranger. Nestorius,g a native of Germanicia, anda monk of Antioch, was recommended by the austerity * These exploits of St. Cyril are recorded by Socrates; (lib. 7. c. 13—15.) andthe most reluctant bigotry ia compelled to copy an historian who coolly styles themurderers of Hypatia avfyi; TO tycmpa tvS>tf/t.a. At the mention of that injured name,I am pleased to observe a blush even on the cheek of Baronius. (A. D.415, no. 48.) 1 He was deaf to the entreaties of Atticus of Constantinople, and of Isidore ofPelusium, and yielded only (if we may believe Nicephoms, lib. 14. c. 18.) to thepersonal intercession of the Virgin. Yet in his last years he still muttered, thatJohn Chrysostom had been justly condemned. (Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14.p. 278—282. Baronius, Annal. Eccles. A. D. -11','. no. 46—64.) 'See their characters in the History of Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 25—28.) their powerand pretensions, in the huge compilation of Thomassin. (Discipline de 1'Eglise,torn. 1. p. 80—91.) * His elevation and conduct are described by Socrates; (lib. 7. c. 29—3I.) andMarcellinus seems to have applied the loquentiae satis, sapientiae parum, of Sallust.