OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 37 Boethius, he derived some comfort from the safety ofhis two sons, of his wife, and his father-in-law, the ve­nerable Symmachus. But the grief of Symmachus wasindiscreet, and perhaps disrespectful: he had presumedto lament, he might dare to revenge, the death of an in­jured friend. He was dragged in chains from Rome to Death ofthe palace of Ravenna; and the suspicions of Theodoric chus.could only be appeased by the blood of an innocent and A"D'5<*'aged senator.' •"' Humanity will be disposed to encourage any report Remorse , . , , . L.i ...... 11 and death which testifies the jurisdiction or conscience and the re- ofTheo-morse of kings; and philosophy is not ignorant that the A"rD.'5t6,most horrid spectres are sometimes created by the pow- Ausost 3aers of a disordered fancy, and the weakness of a distem­pered body. After a life of virtue and glory, Theodoricwas now descending with shame and guilt into the grave:his mind was humbled by the contrast of the past, andjustly alarmed by the invisible terrors of futurity. Oneevening, as it is related, when the head of a large fish wasserved on the royal table,k he suddenly exclaimed, thathe beheld the angry countenance of Symmachus, hiseyes glaring fury and revenge, and his mouth armedwith long sharp teeth, which threatened to devour him.•The monarch instantly retired to his chamber, and as helay trembling with aguish cold under a weight of bed­clothes, he expressed in broken murmurs to his physi­cian Elpidius, his deep repentance for the murders ofBoethius and Symmachus.1 His malady increased, and third, the learned Pope Silvester II. who, like Boethins himself, was styled a magicianby the ignorance of the times. The Catholic martyr had carried his head in his handsa considerable way ; (Baronius, A. D. 526, no, 17, 18.) yet, on a similar tale, a ladyof my acquaintance once observed, " La distance n'y fait rien ; il n'y a que le premierpas qui conte." * Boelbius applauds the virtues of his father-in-law. (lib. 1. pros. 4. p. 59. lib. 2.pros. 4. p. 118.) Procopius, (Goth. lib. 1. c. 1.) the Valesiau Fragment, (p. 724.)and the Historia Miscella, (lib. 15. p. 105.) agree in praising the superior innocenceor sanctity of Symmachus; and in the estimation of the legend, the guilt of his mur­der is equal to the imprisonment of a pope.' k In the fanciful eloquence of Cassiodorius the variety of sea and river fish are anevidenceof extensive dominion ; and those of the Rhine, of Sicily, and of the Danube,were served on the table of Theodoric. (Var. 12. 14.) The monstrous turbot of Do-mitian (Juvenal, Satir. S. 39.) had been caught on the shores of the Adriatic. 1 Procopius, Goth. lib. 1. c. 1. Bat he might have informed us whether he had