OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 231 not begin his operations until he should see the fire inthat of the king.' The business was not long delayed;and as the huts all stood contiguously, the flamesspread rapidly through every part of the camp. Thealarm was great, by reason of its being night, andfrom the widely-extended blaze; but the king's troops,thinking it an accidental calamity, rushed out unarmed,in order to extinguish the flames, and met the enemyin arms, particularly the Numidians, whom Masiuissa,being well acquainted with the king's station, hadposted at the openings of the passes. Many perishedin their beds while half asleep; while many, in theirprecipitate flight, crowding on one another, were trod足den to death in the narrow passages of the gates. 0. When the Carthaginian sentinels, awakened bythe tumult of the night, beheld the fire, they also sup足posed it to be accidental; while the shout, raised amidstthe slaughter and wounds, was so confused, (the alarm,too, being in the dark,) that they were unable to dis足cover the cause or extent of the evil which assailedthem. Running out therefore in the utmost hurry, byall the gates, without arms, as not suspecting an enemyto be near, and carrying nothing with them but whatmight serve to extinguish the flames, they rushedagainst the body of Romans. All of these were slain,not merely to gratify hostile animosity, but in order toprevent any one escaping with intelligence as to thetruth of the affair. Scipio, immediately after, attackedthe gates, which were neglected, as may be supposed,during such confusion, and set fire to the nearest huts;which soon communicating to the others, the wholewas enveloped in one general conflagration. Half-burned men and cattle stopped up the passages, firstby the hurry of their flight, and afterwards with theircarcases. Those who had escaped the flames were cutoff by the sword, and the two camps were, by one fatalblow, involved in utter ruin. However, the two com足manders, with two thousand foot and five hundredhorse, half armed, and a great part wounded or scorched,got away. There were destroyed by fire or sword forty