OCR Output 482 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him according to the common sentiments ofall the Pharisees:* and that this would bemade manifest if he would but ask them thequestion, what punishment they thought thisman merited? For that he might dependupon it, that the reproach was not laid onhim with their approbation; if they were forpunishing him as his crime deserved. So thePharisees made answer, that he deservedstripes and bonds; but that it did not seemright to punish reproaches with death. Andindeed -the Pharisees, even upon other occa­sions, are not apt to be severe in punish­ments. At this gentle sentence Hyrcanuswas very angry: and thought that this man reproached him by their approbation. Itwas this Jonathan, who chiefly irritated him,and influenced him so far, that he made himleave the party of the Pharisees, and abolishthe decrees they had imposed on the peo­ple; and to punish those that observed them.From this source arose that hatred, whichhe and his sons met with from the multitude.But of these matters we shall speak here­after. What I would now explain is this.that the Pharisees have delivered to thepeople, a great many observances by suc­cession from their fathers, which are notwritten in the laws of Moses: and for thatreason it is, that the sect of the Sadducees opinion, 1st, Because the Sadducees taught and prayed inthe temple, where the prophets, and other holy writers,were read, as appears from the example of Christ, whoexplained a passage out of Isaiah. 2dly, Because Jose-phiis, who ought to have been well acquainted with theprinciples of his sect, relates of them, (lib. VI. c. 9.) thatthey received what was written. And, 3dly, Because thePharisees, in their disputes with them about the doctrineof the resurrection, quote, not only the writings of Moses,but those of the prophets likewise, and other hagiogra-phers, whose authority the others do not deny, but onlyendeavour to elude the force of the passages that arehence produced against them. Upon the whole, there­fore, Scaliger (Elench. Trihser, c. 16.) is of opinion, thatthese Sadducees did not absolutely reject all the sacredwritings, but rather looked upon them as books composedby holy men, whose memoirs they reverenced, thoughthey could not believe them of the like authority withthe law of Moses, which to them was the only rule offaith. But notwithstanding this, "the account which isj;iven us in the Gospel, (says the learned Prideaux,) ofthe disputation which Christ had with the Sadducees,plainly proves the contrary. For seeing there, are so manytexts in the prophets and hagiographa, which plainlyand directly prove a future state, and the resurrectionfrom the dead, no other reason can be given why Christwaved all these proofs, and drew his argument, only byconsequence, from what is said in the law, but that heknew, that the Sadducees, had rejected the prophets andthe hagiographa, and therefore would admit of no argu­ments, but from the law only." Anno 107. B. * The Pharisees were so called from the Hebrew wordPharas, which signifies to separate; because the prevail­ing passion, or rather ambition, of this sect was, to dis­tinguish and separate itself from the rest of the people,by a greater degree of holiness and piety, but accom­panied with very much affectation and abundance of vainobservances. Vide Lamifs Introduction, and Prideaux'sConnection. At what time this sect began first to ap­pear, is no easy matter to determine. Josephus makesmention of them in the government of Jonathan, a hun­dred and forty years before Christ, as a very powerfulbody of men at that time; nor is it improbable, thattheir origin was somewhat earlier, and that, as soon asthe Sadducees discovered their principles to the world,these men of different sentiments might not long afterrise up in opposition to them: for it is evident from the character which the Jewish historian gives of them, that,in the main articles of their belief, they were entirelyrepugnant to the Sadducees. Joseph, de Bella Jvd. lib.II. c. 12. The Pharisees believe in a fate, says he, andattribute all things to it, but nevertheless they acknow­ledge the freedom of man; but how they made thesetwo apparent incompatibles consist together, is no wheresufficiently explained. They teach, that God will oneday judge the world, and punish or reward men accord­ing to their merits. They maintain, that souls are im­mortal, and that, in the other world, soine will be shut upin an eternal prison, and others sent back again; butwith this difference, that those of good men shall enterinto the bodies of men, those of wicked men into thebodies of beasts; which exactly agrees with the famoustransmigration of Pythagoras. Their adherence to thelaw was so exact, that, for fear of violating the least pre­cept of it, they scrupulously observed every thing thathad the least relation to it, even though the law had nei­ther commanded nor forbidden them. Their zeal for thetraditions of the elders was such, that they derived tbemfrom the same fountain with the written word itself, pre­tending, that Moses received both of them from God onmount Sinai, and therefore ascribing an equal authorityto both. They had a notion, that good works were me­ritorious; and therefore they invented a great number ofsupererogatory ones, upon which they valued themselvesmore than upon a due observance of the law itself. Theirfrequent washings and ablutions, Matt. vi. 5, &c. theirlong prayers in public places, Luke vii. 39. their niceavoidance of reputed sinners, their fasting and great ab­stinence, their penance and mortification, their minutepayment of tithes, their strict observance of the Sabbath,and ostentatious enlargement of phylacteries, were allworks of this kind; which nevertheless gained them suchesteem and veneration, that while the common peopleloved, the great ones dreaded them, so that their powerand authority in the state was considerable, though gene­rally attended with pernicious consequences, becausetheir hearts were evil: for notwithstanding their shew oimighty zeal and great austerity, they were in reality, nobetter than what our Saviour calls them, vain and osten­tatious, spiteful and malicious, griping and voracious,lovers of themselves only, and despisers of others; inso­much, that it was hard to say which was most predomi­nant in them, their insatiable avarice, their insupportablepride, or abominable hypocrisy. B.