OCR Output MARSL 2S1 MARSI. by tbeir neig hbours and kinsfolk the Peligni, Mar-rucini, and Vestini, an well as by the Sainnites,Frentani, and Lucanians. (Appian, B. C. i. 39;I-iv. Epit. Ixxii.; Oros. v. 18.) During the militaryoperations that followed, imperfect as is our informa­tion concerning then), we may clearly discern thatthe allies formed two principal groups; the onecomposed of the Marsi, with their immediate neigh­bours already mentioned, as well as the Picentes, andprobably the Frentani; the other of the Samnites,with the Lucanians, Apulians, and some of theCampanians. The Marsi appear to have stood, bycommon consent, at the head of the former section;and hence we frequently find their name alone men­tioned, where it is clear that their confederates alsofought by their side. At the first outbreak of thewar (b. c 91), they laid siege to Alba Fucensis,a Ridiutn colony and a strong fortress (Liv. Epit.Ixxii ), which appears to have at first defied all theirefforts. But the Roman consul P. Rutilius, whowas sent against them, proved unequal to the task.One division of his army, under Perpenna, was cut topieces at the outset of the campaign; and somewhatlater the consul himself was defeated and slain bythe allied forces under Vettius Cato. (Appian, B. C.L 43; Liv. EpiL lxxiiL; Oros. v. 18.) C. Marius,who was acting as legate to Rutilius, is said to haveretrieved this disaster; and afterwards, in conjunc­tion with Sulla, achieved a decisive victory over theMini, in which it is said that the allies lost 6000men, and the leader or praetor of the Marrucini,Henna Asinius, was slain. But notwithstandingthis advantage, it appears that Marius himself wasunable to keep the field, and was almost blockadedin bis camp by Pompaedius Silo; and when atlength he ventured on a third battle, it had nodecisive result. Meanwhile, his colleague in thecommand, Q. Caepio, was totally defeated and cut topieces with his whole army by the Marsi; while anadvantage gained by Ser. Sulpiciu.s over the Peligniappears to have led to no important result. (Liv.£pit. Ixxui. lxxiv.; Appian B. C. i. 4G; Plut. Mar.33; Oros. v. 18.) The next campaign (b. c. 89)proved at first scarcely more favourable to theRoman arms; fur though the consul L. Pore i usCato obtained some successes over the Marsi andtbeir allies, be was himself slain in a battle near thelake Fucinus. (Appian, B. C. i. 50; Oros. v. 18.)but it is probable that the policy adopted by theKenans in admitting to the franchise all those of theailw who were willing to submit had a greatleniency to disarm the confederates, as well as tointroduce dissensions among them; and this cause,combined with the successful operations of the consulCn. Pompeius Strabo and his lieutenant Sulpicius,etfected the submission of the Marrucini, Vestini,and Peligni before the close of the year. TheMirsi tor a time still held out, though single-handed;bat repeated defeats at length compelled themalso to sue for peace. (Liv. Epit. lxxvi.; Oros. v.18.) Notwithstanding their obstinate resistance, theywere admitted to favourable terms, and received, incommon with the rest of the Italians, the full rightsti Kc/man citizens. from this time the Marsi as a nation disappearErnca history, and became merged in the commont>*diuon of the Italians. They however, still re­tained much of their national character, and theirexigence as a 5*[*rate tribe is acknowledged byRaaj Eoman writers, both of the Republic andXapcrt. In the civil war between Caesar and Pompey they appear to have been at first favourablydisposed to the latter; and the twenty cohorts withwhich Domitins occupied Corfinium were principallyraised among the Marsi and Peligni, or their imme­diate neighbours. (Caes. B. C. i. 15, 20.) In likemanner, the Marsi are mentioned as declaring them­selves, as a people, in favour of Vespasian during thecivil war between him and Vitellius. (lac. But,iii. 59.) In the days of Cicero, the Marsi andPeligni, as well as the Sabines, were comprised inthe Sergian tribe(Cic. in Vatin. 15; Schol. Bob. adloc.); and at a later period all three were includedin the Fourth Region of Augustus, which, accordingto Pliny, was composed of the bravest nations of allItaly. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) In the later divisionof the Empire, the territory of the Marsi (Marsorumregio) was included in the province named Valeria.(P. Diae. ii. 20; Lib. Col. p. 229.) It appears tohave early formed a separate ecclesiastical diocese;and in the middle ages the bishop of Marruviumbore the title of " Kpiscopus Marsorum," which isstill retained by the bKhops of Pescina,lo which placethe see has been transferred. (Bingham's Eccle­siastical Antiquities, took ix.ch. 5. § 3.) The dis­trict comprised within it is still familiarly called "theland of the Marsi,'' and the noble Roman family ofColonna bears the title of Counts of the Marsi.(K. Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 144.) The Marsi appear to have been always celebratedin ancient times, even beyond their hardy and war­like neighbours, for their valour and spirit in war.Virgil adduces them as the 6rst and most prominentexample of the " genus acre virum" which Italy wasable to produce: and Horace alludes to the " Marsiccohorts" as an almost proverbial expression for thebravest troops in the Roman army. (Virg. Georg. ii.167; Hor. Carm. ii. 20. 18, iii. 5. 9.) Appian alsotells us that a proverbial saying was current at thetime of the outbreak of the Social War, that no tri­umph had ever been gained orer the Marsi or with­out the Marsi (Appian, B. C. i. 46). The historicalaccuracy of this saying will not bear examination,but it sufficiently proves the high character they hadearned as Roman auxiliaries. In common with theSabines and other mountain tribes, they retained downto a late period their rustic and frugal habits; andare cited by the Roman poets as examples of primi­tive simplicity. (Juv. iii. 169, xiv. 180.) But the most remarkable characteristic of theMartians was their peculiar skill in magical charmsand incantations,—especially inchurmiiig venomousreptiles, so as to render them innoxious. This power,which they were said to have derived from their an­cestress Circe, or from the local divinity Angitia,who was described as her sister, was not confined toa few individuals, though the priests appear to haveprincipally exercibed it, but, according to Silius Ita-licus, was possessed by the whole body of the nation.(Virg. Jen. vii. 750—758; Sil. Ital. viu.495—501;Plin. vii. 2, xxi. 13. s. 25, xxviii. 3. s. 6 ; Solin. 2.§27; Cell. xvi. 11; Lamprid. Htlioyab. 23.) Itis worthy of notice that the inhabitants of these re­gions still pretend to possess the same occult powersas their ancestors: and are often seen as wanderersin the streets of Naples carrying boxes full of ser­pents of various sizes and colours, against the bitesof which they profess to charm both themselves andthe spectators. (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 145.) The physical characters of the land of the Marsihave been already described under the article of thelake Flci.nlsj the basin of which, surrounded ou