OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 757 -runt tonal to 10,230 English yards (Burgess,'j^r-ipiy am' Antiquities of Rom*, vol. i. p.lip), which agrees as nearly as possible withv ranker above given of 5} miles. Nibby, who■at i laborious but perhaps not very accuratecaspt t» ascertain the point bj walking round the"**&r«l line of the ancient walls, arrived at a con-i-nlli lirrer result, or nearly 8 miles. (Jfura, gV. >«V ad doubtful Gales. —Hut our presentii with the gates of the Servian town; i it would really appear that in the time of•nun there were no fewer than thirty-seven«au tram toe ancient walls. The seven oldivi to which Pliny alludes as liaving ceased toif. say possibly have included those of the old•-aksa dry and also some in the Servian walls, i Lad been closed. In order to account for ther number recorded by Pliny, we must figure to*v/vta what would bs the natural progress of a'arrronded with a strong wall like that ofn u.wbae population was beginning to outgrow'«coeunodation afforded within it. At first < «?< booses would be built at the Bides of the • Maine from the main gates; but,as at Romev i :ei acre often appropriated for sepulchres, iranuiodation thus afforded would be limited.nrtu of time, the use of the wall becoming*7 iir more obsolete, fresh gates would becorresponding with the line of streets inside, • i would be continued by a line of road outside,•.Tii buutes nould be erected. Gradually the ■ ■ tinnselres began to disappear; but the open- < :iut hod bees pierced were still recorded, as kr fiscal or other purposes, the boundary ofwords. Hence, though Augustus had dividedety sad suburbs into fourteen new Regions,is! the ancient boundary marked by theset «till recorded and measured in the timo of•SMS; and indeed it seems to have been kept'"•long while afterwards, since we find the ■ tjirber of thirty-seven gates recorded both inJ rfi.'ia and Cnriotwn. *3t* we would n<-t tamper with the text of'. at Xibby has done with very unfortunatex*(U*ra. tfc p. 213, seq)— a remedy thatewer be resorted to except in cases of the last■irr. Plinya statement may be regarded as» ' thou; influence with respect to the original■v rates, the number of which we should rathercesd to reduce than to increase. We find,inert names mentioned than those enu-iwt some of them were ancient or obsolete'sai. agaio, we must remember that 11 porta"a*, ahrays signify a city gate. Of the formertaw Porta Agostessh, which, as we learnI'uhu l>tao«m* (p. 10), was another appclla-'tie Porta Collins- The same author (p. 255)il«u> Porta QriRi*Ai.is as a substantive'tv^zh possibly, like Agonensis, it was only a»i» tiome far one of the gates on the Quirinal.trot * porta" was applied to any arched.-'rfi.T. and ftomelimes perhaps to the arch of■duct when it spanned a street in the line ofin which cms*? it was built in a superior • and had usually an inscription. Among ii thorough fan* called "portae" were the- rjLUA oo the Clivus Capitolinus, the Lium- ■ :o the ampliitheatre, the Fesestklla, men-by Ovid (Fast, vi 569) as that by which a Tqaleit Ttaiawl, Iir The last of these formed the entrance to Numa's regia, as we learn fromPlutarch (de Fort. Rom. 10). Among the archesof aqueducts to which the name of gate was applied,may perhaps be ranked that alluded to by Martial(iv. 18): — "Qua vicina plait Vipsanis porta columnis," &c. Respecting the gates called Kkhextixa and I'iacit-I.ARIS we have before offered a conjecture. [See p.728.] The Porta Mktia rests solely on a false read­ing of Plautus. (Co*, ii. 6. 2, ./"send. i. 3.97.) Onthe other hand, a Pouta Catclaria seems to havereally existed, which is mentioned by Paulus Dia-conus (p. 45; cf. Festus, p. 285) in connectionwith certain sacrifices of red-coloured dogs. Thismust be the sacrifice alluded to by Ovid (Fast.iv. 905), in which the entrails of a dog wereoffered by the flamen in the Lurus Robiginis. Itis also mentioned in the Fasti Fraenestmi, vii.Kal. Mai, which date agrees with Ovid's: "Fe-riae Robigo Via Claudia, ad miliariutn v., ne ro-bigo frumentis noceat" But this is at variancefirst, with Ovid, who was returning to Rome by theVia Nomentana, not the Via Claudia, and, secundly,with itself, since the Via Claudia did not branch offfrom the Via Flaminia till the 10th milestone, and,consequently, no sacrifice could be performed on itat a distance of 5 miles from Rome. However thisdiscrepancy is to be reconciled, it can hardly bosupposed that one of the Roman gates derived itsname from a trifling rustic sacrifice; unless, indeed,it was a duplicate one, used chiefly with referenceto sacerdotal customs, as seems to hare been some­times the case, and in the present instance to denotethe gate leading to the spot where the annual ritewas performed. Paulus Diacunu* also mentions (p.37) a Porta Collatina, which he affirms to havebeen so called after the city of Collatin, near Rome.But when we reflect that both the Via Tiburtinaand the Via Praenestina issued from the PortaF.sqnilina, and that a road to Collatia must haverun between them, the impossibility of a substantivePorta Collatina is at once apparent. TheDuoiiECiMPortae are placed by Bunsen <Beschr. i. p. 633) inthe wall of the Circus Maximus; but as it appearsfrom Pliny (I c.) that they stood on the ancientline of wall, and as we have shown that this did notmake part of the wall of the circus, this could nothave been their situation. We do not see the forceof Piale's celebrated discovery that the DuodecimPortae must hare been a place at Rome, becauseJulius Obsequens says that a mule brought forththere; which it might very well have done at oneof the gates. Becker's opinion (HnHilh. p. 180)that it was an arch, or arches, of the Aqua Appiaseems as unfounded as that of Bunsen (vide Preller,Regimen, p. 193). It is mentioned by the Xotitiaiu the 11th Regio, and therefore probably stoodsomewhere near the Aventine ; but its exact sitecannot be determined. It seems probable, as Prellerremarks, that it may have derived its name frombeing a complex of twelve arched thoroughfares likethe 'EjvfdwvAoi' of the Pelasgicon at Alliens. 7Vowlioen'ne Wall. — Ancus Morcius, as wehave related, fortified the Janicillm, or hill onthe right bank of the Til*r commanding thecity. Some hare concluded from I.ivy (i. 33:"Janiculum quoque adjectum, non inopia locorum,sed ne quando ea arx hostium esset. Id non inurosolum, sed etiam ob commoditatem itineris ponteSublicio turn primum in Tiberi facto conjungi urbi 3 c 3