OCR Output 378 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. no fidelity to the state at all, and proved faithful to theofficer only when he had the skill personally to gain theirattachment. The civil war had given fearful evidence ofthis total revolution in the spirit of the army: six generals,Albinus (P. 257), Cato (P. 258), Rufus (P. 271), Flaccus(P. 307), Cinna (P. 328), and Gaius Carho (P. 342), hadfallen during its course by the hands of their soldiers; Sullaalone had hitherto been able to retain the mastery of thedangerous crew, and that only, in fact, by giving the rein toall their wild desires as no Roman general before him hadever done. If the blame of destroying the old military dis­cipline is on this account attached to him, the censure is notexactly without ground, but yet without justice; he was in­deed the first Roman magistrate who was enabled to dischargehis military and political task only by coming forward as acondottiere. He had not however taken the military dicta­torship for the purpose of making the state subject to thesoldiery, but rather for the purpose of compelling everythingin the state, and especially the army and the officers, to sub­mit once more to the authority of civil order. When this be­came evident, an opposition arose against him among hisown staff. The oligarchy might play the tyrant as respectedother citizens; but that the generals also, who with theirgood swords had replaced the overthrown senators in theirseats, should now be summoned to yield implicit obedienceto this very senate, seemed intolerable. The very two officersin whom Sulla had placed most confidence, resisted the neworder of things. When Gnaeus Pompeius, whom Sulla hadintrusted with the conquest of Sicily and Africa and hadselected for his son-in-law, after accomplishing his task re­ceived orders from the senate to dismiss his army, he omittedto comply and fell little short of open insurrection. Quint usOfella, to whose firm perseverance in front of Praeneste thesuccess of the last and sorest campaign was essentially due,in equally open violation of the newly issued ordinancesbecame a candidate for the consulship without having heldthe inferior magistracies. With Pompeius there was effected,if not a cordial reconciliation, at any rate a compromise.Sulla, who knew his man sufficiently not to fear him, did notresent the impertinent remark which Pompeius uttered to hisface, that more people concerned themselves with the risingthan with the setting sun; and accorded to the vain youththe empty honours to which his heart clung (P. 344).