OCR Output OF ROME. 129 Mucius, who afterwards got the furname B O O Kof Scaevola, ^or the left-handed, from the lofs of his . -^-_jright hand, being thus difmified, was followed to Y.R. 146.Rome by ambaffadors from Porfena. He had been BiCi i°s.fo deeply affeded by the danger to which he hadbeen expofed, in the firft attempt, from which no­thing had protedled him, but the miftake of the af-failant; and by the confideration that he was to un­dergo the fame hazard, as many times as the numberof the other confpirators amounted to, that he thoughtproper, of his own accord, to offer terms of accom­modation to the Romans. During the negotiation,mention was made, to no purpofe, of the reftorationof the Tarquinian family to the throne ; and thispropofal he made, rather becaufe he had not been •able to refufe it to the Tarquinii, than from enter­taining the flighteft expectation of its being acceptedby the Romans. He carried the point, refpectingthe giving up of the lands taken from the Veientians,and compelled the Romans to fubmit to give hoft-ages, if they wifhed to fee his forces withdrawn fromthe Janiculum. Peace being concluded on thefeterms, Porfena withdrew his troops from the Jani­culum, and retired out of the Roman territories.To Caius Mucius, as a reward of his valour, the fe-nate gave a tradT: of ground on the other fide of theTiber, which was afterwards called the Mucianmeadows; and, fuch honour being paid to courage,excited even the other fexto merit public diftinctions.A young lady called Clcelia, one of the hoftages, thecamp of the Etrurians happening to be pitched at afmall diftance from the banks of the Tiber, evadedthe vigilance of the guards, and, at the head of a bandof young ladies, fwam acrofs the Tiber, through amower of darts difcharged at them by the enemy,and reftored them all, in fafety, to their friends atRome. When the king was informed of this, be­ing at firft highly incenfed, he fent envoys to Rome,. to infift on the reftoration of the hoftage Clcelia; asVOL. i. .K. to