OCR Output CHAP. 38. ROMAN HISTORY. 25V senate-house, at the same time that they well knew whata torrent of reproaches they had to encounter; they werenot ignorant, that the ravages of the country, and all themisfortunes that threatened the state, would be stated totheir account. They foresaw, that an attempt wouldthen be made, to wrest their authority from them, if thevdid not with united vigour oppose it, and make examplesof all who should presume to enter the lists against them. When the voice of the herald was heard in the forum,summoning the senators to meet the decemvirs in the se­nate-house, the people were quite astonished, so great anovelty was it now to consult the senate, that customhaving been long discontinued. "What can be the mat-"ter now," said they, "that they revive a practice so"long out of date? We have our enemies and the war"to thank, for seeing the least vestige of our ancient li-"berty in the city." They looked round the forum inevery part for senators, but few or none appeared. Fromthence they repaired to the senate-house, where nothingappeared around the decemvirs, but empty space, whichthe usurpers themselves ascribed to an aversion at theirgovernment, and the people to a-contempt of their au­thority; who, as private persons, had no right to call asenate. This, they concluded was an opening for theadmission of liberty, provided the commons would gohand in hand with the senate, and mind the summons forenrolment, as little as the senators had done the pro- -clamation for holding a senate. Such were the private sentiments of the Plebeians.There was scarce any of the senators to be seen in theforum, and very few in the city. Shocked at the pre­sent administration, they had retired into the country,where, since they could be of no service to the public,they might look after their private affairs; persuaded,that the farther they were. removed from the meetingsand assemblies of those tyrannical monsters, the morethey were out of harm's way. When they did not obeythe citation, officers were sent round to their dwelling-houses, to distrain their effects, and to enquire whetherthey had absented themselves on purpose. The officersreported that the senators were in the country, whichgave much more pleasure to the decemvirs, than if they •