OCR Output 146 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. Numidiansuccession. arrangement was placed under the guarantee of the Romangovernment.The [118. Soon afterwards, in 636, king Micipsa died. The testa-war for the inent came into force: but the two sons of Micipsa—thevehement Hiempsal still more than his weak elder brother—soon came into so violent collision with their cousin whomthey looked on as an intruder into the legitimate line ofsuccession, that the idea of a joint reign of the three kingshad to be abandoned. An attempt was made to carry outa division of the heritage; but the quarrelling kings couldnot agree as to their quotas of land and treasure, and theprotecting power, to which the duty of decision by rightbelonged, gave itself, as usual, no concern about theseaffairs. A rupture took place; Adherbal and Hiempsal pro­bably asserted that their father's testament was surrep­titious and altogether disputed Jugurtha's right of jointinheritance, while on the other hand Jugurtha cameforward as a pretender to the whole kingdom. While thediscussions as to the partition were still going on, Hiempsalwas made away with by hired assassins ; then a civil war arosebetween Adherbal and Jugurtha, in which all Numidia tookpart. With his less numerous but better disciplined andbetter led troops Jugurtha conquered, and seized the wholeterritory of the kingdom, subjecting the chiefs who adheredto his cousin to the most cruel persecutions. Adherbalescaped to the Roman province and proceeded to Rome tomake his complaint there. Jugurtha had. expected this, andhad made his arrangements to meet the threatened inter­vention. In the camp before Numantia he had learnedmore from Rome than a mere lesson in tactics; theNumidian prince, introduced to the circles of the Romanaristocracy, had at the same time been initiated into theintrigues of Roman coteries, and had studied at the fountain-head what might be expected of Roman nobles. Even then,sixteen years before Micipsa's death, he had entered into dis­loyal negotiations as to the Numidian succession with nobleRoman comrades, and Scipio had been under the necessityof gravely reminding him that it was becoming in foreignprinces to be on terms of friendship with the Romanstate rather than with individual Roman citizens. Jugur­tha's envoys appeared in Rome, furnished with somethingmore than words: that they had chosen the right means ofdiplomatic persuasion, was shown by the result. The most