OCR Output 40 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. born by hire; and Zebulon, one born as apledge of benevolence towards her; and adaughter, Dina. After some time Rachel hada son, named Joseph, which signified thereshould be another added to him. Now Jacob fed the flocks of Laban all thistime, being twenty years,* after which he de­sired permission to take his wives, and gohome; but when his father-in-law would notgive him leave, he contrived to do it secretly.He made trial, therefore, of the dispositionof his wives, what they thought of this jour­ney. When they appeared glad, and ap­proved of it, Rachel took along with her theimages of the gods, which, according to theirlaws, they used to worship in their own coun­try, and ran away, together with her sister.Their children also, and their handmaids, andwhat possessions they had, went along withthem. Jacob also drove away half the cattle,without letting Laban know of it beforehand:but the reason why Rachel took the images ofthe gods, although Jacob had taught her todespise such worship, was this, that in casethey were pursued and taken by her father,she might have recourse to these images, inorder to obtain his pardon. Laban, after one day, being acquaintedwith Jacob's and his daughters' departure,was much troubled, and pursued after them,leading a band of men with him; and on theseventh day overtook them, and found themresting on a certain hill; but he did not thenmeddle with them, for it was even-tide. Godstood by him in a dream the same night, andwarned him to receive his son-in-law and hisdaughters in a peaceable manner, and not toventure upon any thing rashly, or in wrath tothem, but to make a league with Jacob; as­suring him that if he despised their smallnumber, and attacked them in an hostile man­ner, he would himself assist them." Laban having been thus forewarned byGod, called Jacob to him the next day, inorder to treat with him, and shewed him whatdream he had; in dependence whereon hecame confidently to him, and began to accusehim, alledging that he had entertained himwhen he was poor, and in want, and hadgiven him plenty of all things which he had;"For," said he, " I have joined my daughtersto thee in marriage, and supposed that thy **~~ * From about an. 1801 to 1714 B. C. kindness to me would be greater than beforebut thou hast had no regard to either thyown mother's relation to me, nor to the affinitymore recently contracted between us, nor tothose wives whom thou hast married; nor tothose children of whom I am the grandfather:thou hast treated me as an enemy, by drivingaway my cattle, and by persuading my daugh­ters to run away from their father: and bycarrying home those sacred paternal imageswhich were worshipped by my forefathers,and which have been honoured with worshipby myself. In short, thou hast done thiswhilst thou wert my kinsman, and my sister'sson, and the husband of my daughters, andwast hospitably treated by me, and didst eatat my table." When Laban had said this, Jacob repliedin his defence, that he was not the only per­son in whom God had implanted the love ofhis native country, but that he had made itnatural to all men; and, therefore, it was butreasonable that, after so long time, he shouldgo back to it. "But as to the prey," saidhe, " of whose driving away thou accusestme, if any other person were the arbitrator,thou wouldst be found in the wrong, for in­stead of those thanks I ought to have hadfrom thee, for both keeping thy cattle, andincreasing them, how is it that thou art un­justly angry because I have taken a smallportion of them; but then, as to thy daugh­ters, it is not through any evil practices ofmine that they follow me in my return home,but from that just affection which wives na­turally have for their husbands; they follow,therefore, not so properly myself, as theirown children." Thus far his apology wasmade in order to clear himself from thecharge of injustice; to which he added hisown complaint and accusation of Laban, say­ing, "While I was thy sister's son, and thouhadst given me thy daughters in marriage,thou hast worn me out with thy harsh com­mands, and detained me twenty years underthem; that, indeed, which was required inorder to my marrying thy daughters, hard asit was, I own to have been tolerable: but asto those that were put upon me after thosemarriages, they were worse, and such indeed,as an enemy would have avoided." For cer­tainly Laban had used Jacob very ill; forwhen he saw that God was assisting to Jacob