OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 27 pus, where he was resisted, threatened, and confined, bythe magistrates in the interest of Nestorius and the ori­entals; who assembled the troops of Lydia and Ionia tosuppress the fanatic and disorderly train of the patriarch.Without expecting the royal licence, he escaped fromhis guards, precipitately embarked, deserted the im­perfect synod, and retired to his episcopal fortress ofsafety and independence. But his artful emissaries,both in the court and city, successfully laboured to ap­pease the resentment, and to conciliate the favour, ofthe emperor. The feeble son of Arcadius was alter­nately swayed by his wife and sister, by the eunuchs andwomen of the palace; superstition and avarice weretheir ruling passions; and the orthodox chiefs wereassiduous in their endeavours to alarm the former, andto gratify the latter. Constantinople and the suburbswere sanctified with frequent monasteries, and the holyabbots, Dalmatius and Eutyches,0 had devoted theirzeal and fidelity to the cause of Cyril, the worship ofMary, and the unity of Christ. From the first momentt»f their monastic life, they had never mingled with theworld, or trode the profane ground of the city. But inthis awful moment of the danger of the church, theirvow was superseded by a more sublime and indispens­able duty. At the head of a long^order of monks andhermits, who carried burning tapers in their hands,and chanted litanies to the mother of God, they pro­ceeded from their monasteries to the palace. The peo­ple was edified and inflamed by this extraordinary spec­tacle, and the trembling monarch listened to the prayersand adjurations of the saints, who boldly pronounced,that none could hope for salvation, unless they embracedthe person and the creed of the orthodox successorof Athanasius. At the same time every avenue of thethrone was assaulted with gold. Under the decent names e Eutychee, the heresiarcb. Eutyches, is honourably named by Cyril as a friend, asaint, and the strenuous defender of the faith. His brother, the abbot Dalmatius,j» likewise employed to bind the emperor and all his chamberlains terribili conju-ratione. Syuodicon, c. 203. in Concil. torn. 4. p. 467.