OCR Output CHAP. XL1X. in their opinion, the Lord of Hosts pronounced a deci­sive judgment between the adoration and contempt ofthese mute and inanimate idols. For awhile Edessa hadbraved the Persian assaults: but the chosen city, thespouse of Christ, was involved in the common ruin;and his divine resemblance became the slave and trophyof the infidels. After a servitude of three hundred years,the Palladium was yielded to the devotion of Constan­tinople, for a ransom of twelve thousand pounds of silver,the redemption of two hundred Mussulmans, and a per-petual truce for the territory of Edessa.'1 In this seasonof distress and dismay, the eloquence of the monks wasexercised in the defence of images; and they attemptedto prove, that the sin and schism of the greatest part ofthe Orientals had forfeited the favour, and annihilatedthe virtue, of these precious symbols. But they werenow opposed by the murmurs of many simple or rationalChristians, who appealed to the evidence of texts, of facts,and of the primitive times, and secretly desired the re­formation of the church. As the worship of images hadnever been established by any general or positive law, itsprogress in the eastern empire had been retarded, or ac­celerated, by the differences of men and manners, thelocal degrees of refinement, and the personal charactersof the bishops. The splendid devotion was fondly che­rished by the levity of the capital, and the inventive ge­nius of the Byzantine clergy, while the rude and remotedistricts of Asia were strangers to this innovation of sa­cred luxury. Many large congregations of Gnostics andArians maintained, after their conversion, the simpleworship which had preceded their separation; and theArmenians, the most warlike subjects of Rome, were notreconciled, in the twelfth century, to the sight of images/ i See EJmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 267.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 201.) andAbulfeda. (Annul. Moslem, p. 264.) and the Criticisms of Pagi. (torn 3. A. IX 944.)The prudent Franciscan refuses to determine whether the image of Edessa now re­poses at Rome or Genoa; but its repose is inglorious, and this ancient object ofworship is no longer famous or fashionable. 'Af/*fn»i; xat AX0/4ayMf tvurnt; v iyian uxovwv TtfWHumfis (urnyo^uTBi. (Nicetas,