OCR Output AN. 459 150.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS himself for his slowness, that he had not pre­vented Alexander, and got the good will ofJonathan: but had given him time so to do.However, he also wrote a letter to Jonathan,and to the people: the contents whereof arethese:— "King Demetrius to Jonathan, and to thenation of the Jews, sendeth greeting. Sinceyou have preserved your friendship for us,and when you have been tempted by our ene­mies, you have not joined yourselves to them;I both commend you for your fidelity, and ex­hort you to continue in the same disposition:for which you shall receive rewards from us.For I will free you from the greatest part ofthe tributes and taxes which you formerlypaid to the kings, my predecessors, and tomyself. And I do now set you free from thosetributes, which you have ever paid: and be­sides I forgive you the tax upon salt, and *thevalue upon crowns which you used to offerto me. And instead of the third part of thefruits of the field, and the half of the fruits ofthe trees, I relinquish my part of them fromthis day. And as to the poll-money, whichought to be given me for every head of theinhabitants of Judea, and of the three topar-chies that adjoin to Judea; Samaria, Galilee,and Perea, that I relinquish to you for alltime to come. I will also that the city ofJerusalem be holy and inviolable, and freefrom tithes and taxes unto its utmost bounds.And I so far recede from my title to thecitadel, as to permit Jonathan, your high-priest, to possess it; that he may place sucha garrison in it, as he approves of for fidelityand good will to himself; that they may keepit for us. I also make free all those Jewsthat have been made captives and slaves inmy kingdom: and give order that the beastsof the Jews be not pressed for our service.And let their sabbaths, and all their festivals,and three days before each of them, be freefrom any imposition. In the same manner Iset free the Jews that are inhabitants in mykingdom, and order that no injury be done them. I also give leave to such of them asare willing to enlist themselves in my army,that they may do it, and those as far as thirtythousand: which Jewish soldiers, whereso­ever they go, shall have the same pay thatmy own army hath. And some of them I willplace in my garrisons; and some as guardsabout mine own body, and as rulers overthose that are in my court. I give them alsopermission to use the laws of their forefa­thers; and I will that they have power overthe three toparchies that are added to Judea;and it shall be in the power of the high-priestto take care, that no one Jew shall have anyother temple for worship, but only that atJerusalem. I bequeath also out of my ownrevenues, yearly, for the expenses about thesacrifices, one hundred and fifty thousanddrachmae; and what money is to spare shallbe your own. I also release to you those tenthousand drachmae which the kings receivedfrom the temple; because they appertain tothe priests that minister in that temple. Andwhosoever shall flee to the temple at Jerusa­lem, or to the places thereto belonging; orwho owe the king money; or are there onany other account; let them be set free, andlet their goods be in safety. I give you leaveto repair and rebuild your temple; and thatall be done at my expense. I also allow youto build the walls of your city; and to erecthigh towers; and that they be erected at mycharge. And if there be any fortified townthat would be convenient for the Jewishcountry to have very strong, let it be sobuilt at my expense." This was what Demetrius promised, andgranted to the Jews, by this letter. But kingAlexander raised a great army of mercenarysoldiers, and of those that deserted to himout of Syria; and made an expedition againstDemetrius. And when they came to a bat­tle, the left wing of Demetrius* put thosewho opposed them to flight, and pursuedthem a great way, and slew many of them,and spoiled their camp. But the right * Take Grotius's notes here. "The Jews," says he,"were wont to present crowns to the kings of Syria.Afterwards that gold, which was paid instead of thosecrowns, or which was expended in making them, wascalled the crown gold, and the crown tax." On 1 Mace,x. 29. t In the first onset, Demetrius's left wing put the op­posite wing of the enemy to flight: but as he pursuedvoL. I.—NOS. 39 & 40. them too far, (a fault in war which has lost many victo­ries,) by the time that they came back, the right wing,in which Demetrius fought in person, was overborne, andhe slain in the rout: for his horse having plunged himinto a bog, they who pursued him shot at him there withtheir arrows, till he died. Joseph. Antiq. lib. 13, c. 5.Justin, lib. 35, c. 1 ; Apipn, de Syriacis; and Polybiiis.lib. 3. B. 4E