OCR Output 6* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWB. Book X. "Medes should put an end to their servitude, and overthrow*' the Babylonians, and that we shall be dismissed, and return*' to this land, and * rebuild the temple and restore Jerusalem."When Jeremiah said this, the greater part believed him, but therulers, and those that were wicked, despised him, as one disor­dered in his senses. Now he had resolved to go elsewhere, tohis own country, which was called Anathoth, and was twentyfurlongs distant from Jerusalem; and as he was going, one of therulers met him, and seized upon him, and accused him falsely, asthough he were going as a deserter to the Babylonians: but Je­remiah, said, that he accused him falsely, and added, that he wasonly going to his own country, but the other would not believehim, but seized upon him, and led him away to the rulers, andlaid an accusation against him, under whom he endured all sortsof torments and tortures, and was reserved to be punished ; andthis was the condition he was in for some time, while he suf­fered what I have already described unjustly. 4. Now in the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah, on thetenth day of the tenth month, the king of Babylon made a se­cond expedition against Jerusalem, and lay before it eighteenmonths, and besieged it with the utmost application. There cameupon them also two of the greatest calamities at the same timethat Jerusalem was besieged, a famine and pestilential distem­per, and made great havock of them: And though the prophetJeremiah was in prison, he did not rest, but cried out, and pro­claimed aloud, and exhorted the multitude to open their gates,and admit the king of Babylon, for that if they did so, they shouldbe preserved, and their whole families, but if they did not so, theyshould be destroyed, and he foretold, that if any one stayed in thecity, he should certainly perish by one of these ways, either beconsumed by the famine, or slain by the enemy's sword, butthat if he would fly to the enemy he should escape death: Yetdid not these rulers who heard believe him, even when theywere in the midst of their sore calamities, but they came to theking, and in their anger, informed him what Jeremiah said, andaccused him, and complained of the prophet as of a madman,and one that disheartened their minds, and by the denunciationof miseries, weakened the alacrity of the multitude, who wereotherwise ready to expose themselves to dangers for him, andfor their country, while he, in a way of threatening, warned themto fly to the enemy, and told them that the city should certainlybe taken, and be utterly destroyed. * Josephus says here, that Jeremiah prophesied not only of the return of the Jewsfrom the Babylonian captivity, and this under the Persians and Medes, as in ourother copies; but of their rebuilding the temple, and even the city Jerusalem, whichdo not apoear in our copies under his name, we the note on Anti-j. B. XI. chap. I.*ect. 3.