OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. conduct of each citizen was exposed to the eyes and earsof his friends and countrymen. The insolvent debtorconsulted the wishes of his creditor: the client wouldhave blushed to oppose the vieWs of his patron: the ge­neral was followed by his veterans, and the aspect of thegrave magistrate Was a living lesson to the multitude. Anew method of secret ballot abolished the influence offear and shame, of honour and interest, and the abuse offreedom accelerated the progress of anarchy and despo­tism.' The Romans had aspired to be equal; they werelevelled by the equality of servitude; and the dictates ofAugustus were patiently ratified by the formal consent-of the tribes or centuries. Once, and once only, he ex­perienced a sincere and strenuous opposition. His sub­jects had resigned all political liberty; they defended thefreedom of domestic life. A law which enforced theobligation, and strengthened the bonds of marriage, wasclamorously rejected; Propertius, in the arms of Delia,applauded the victory of licentious love; and the projectof reform Was suspended till a new and more tractable ge­neration had arisen in the world.8 Such an example wasnot necessary to instruct a prudent usurper, of the mis­chief of popular assemblies; and their abolition, whichAugustus had silently prepared, was accomplished with­out resistance, and almost Without notice, on the acces­sion of his successor.h Sixty thousand plebeian legisla­tors, whom numbers made formidable, and poverty se­cure, were supplanted by six hundred senators, who heldtheir honours, their fortunes, and their lives, by the cle-iheC«natef mency oftne emperor. The loss of executive power wasalleviated by the gift of legislative authority; and Ulplan might assert, after the practice of two hundred 'Cicero (de Legibus, 3.16—18.) dehates this constitutional question, anil as­signs to his brother Qirintus the most unpopular side. s Prm tutnultu recusantlum perferre non potui. (Suctbn. in August, c. 34.) SeePropertius, lib % eleg. 6. Heinecciifs, in a separate history, has exhausted, thewhole subject of the Julian and Papian-Poppaean laws. (Opp. tout. 7. P. 1. p. 1—479.) j> Tacit. Antml. 1. 15. Lipsius, Excursus E. in Tacitum. <•