OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 89 buting the domain lands with all the passionate vehemence,which was and continued hereditary in the Claudian house;and with the greater bitterness, apparently, because he badcome into personal conflict with Seipio jEmilianus in hiscandidature for the censorship. Similar views were expressedby Publius Crassus Mucianus (P. 56), the Pontifex Maxi-mus of the day, who was held in universal honour by thesenate and the citizens as a man and a jurist. Even hisbrother Publius Mucius Scaevola, the founder of scientificjurisprudence in Rome, seemed not averse to the plan ofreform; and his voice was of the greater weight, as he stoodin some measure aloof from either party. Similar were thesentiments of Quintus Metellus, the conqueror of Macedoniaand of the Achaeans, but respected not so much on accountof his warlike deeds as because he was a model of the olddiscipline and manners alike in his domestic and his publiclife. Tiberius Gracchus was closely connected with thesemen, particularly with Appius whose daughter he hadmarried, and with Mucianus whose daughter was marriedto his brother. It was no wonder that he cherished the ideaof resuming in person the scheme of reform, so soon as heshould find himself in a position which would constitution­ally allow him the initiative. Personal motives may havestrengthened this resolution. The treaty of peace, whichMancinus concluded with the Numantines in 617, was in 137.substance the work of Gracchus (P. 15); the recollection thatthe senate had cancelled it, that the general had been on itsaccount surrendered to the enemy, and that Gracchus withthe other superior officers had only escaped a like fatethrough the greater favour which he enjoyed among theburgesses, could not put the young, upright, and proudman in better humour with the ruling aristocracy. TheHellenic rhetoricians with whom he wns fond of discussingphilosophy and politics, Diophanes the Mytilenaean and GaiusBlossius the Cumaean, nourished within his soul the idealsover which he brooded: when his intentions became knownin wider circles, there was no want of approving voices, andmany a public placard summoned the grandson of Africanusto think of the poor people and the deliverance of Italy. Tiberius Gracchus was invested with the tribunate of the Tribunatepeople on the 10th of December, 620. The fearful conse- of C134<quences of the previous misgovernment, the political, mili- us' tary, economic, and moral decay of the burgesses, were just