OCR Output 304 LIVY. not be distinguished; and another was found sixteenyears old, whose sex also was doubtful. At Frusino alamb was born with a swine's head; at Sinuessa, a pigwith a human head; and in Lucania, in the land be­longing to the state, a foal with five feet. All thesewere considered as horrid and abominable, and as ifNature were straying from her course in confoundingthe different species. Above all, the people were par­ticularly shocked at the hermaphrodites, which wereordered to be immediately thrown into the sea, as hadbeen lately done with a production of the same mon­strous kind, in the consulate of Caius Claudius andMarcus Livius. Not satisfied with this, they orderedthe decemvirs to inspect the books in regard of thatprodigy; and the decemvirs, from the books, directedthe same religious ceremonies which had been per­formed on an occasion of the same kind. They or­dered, besides, a hymn to be sung through the city bythrice nine virgins, and an offering to be made to im­perial Juno. The consul, Caius Aurelius, took carethat all these matters were performed according to thedirection of the decemvirs. The hymn was composedby Publius Licinius Tegula, as a similar one had been,in the memory of their fathers, by Livius. 13. All religious scruples were fully removed byexpiations: at Locri, too, the affair of the sacrilegehad been thoroughly investigated by Quintus Minu-cius, and the money replaced in the treasury out of theeffects of the guilty. When the consuls wished to setout to their provinces, a number of private persons, towhom the third payment became due that year, of themoney which they had lent to the public in the consu­late of Marcus Valerius and Marcus Claudius, appliedto the senate. The consuls, however, having declaredthat the treasury being scarcely sufficient for the exi­gences of a new war, in which a great fleet and greatarmies must be employed, there were no means ofpaying them at present. The senate could not avoidbeing affected by their complaints, in which they al­leged, that 'if the state intended to use, for the pur­