OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST AflON. 443 same time he hath ordained, that such as break these lawsshould be punished, without the allowance of any excusewhatsoever. 31. Now the greatest part of offences with us are capital;as if any one be guilty of adultery; if any one force a virgin ;if any one be so impudent as to attempt sodomy with a male,or if, upon another's making an attempt upon him, ho sub­mits to be so used. There is also a law for slaves of the likenature that can never be avoided. Moreover, if any onecheats another in measures or weights, or makes a knavishbargain and sale in order to cheat another; if any one stealswhat belongs to another, and takes what he never deposited,all these have punishments allotted them : not so much as aremet with among other nations, but more severe ones. Andas for attempts of unjust behavior toward parents, or for im­piety against God, though they be not actually accomplished,the offenders are destroyed immediately. However, the re­ward for such as live exactly according to the laws is notiiilver nor gold; it is not a garland of olive branches or ofr.mallage, nor any such public sign of commendation; butnvery good man hath his own conscience bearing witness tohimself; and by virtue of our legislator's prophetic spirit, andof the firm security God himself affords such a one, ho believesthat God hath made this grant to those that observe theselaws, even though they be obliged readily to die for them,that they shall come into being again, and at a certain revo­lution of things shall receive a better life than they had en­joyed before. Nor would I venture to write thus at thistime, were it not well known to all by our actions, that manyof our people have many a time bravely resolved to endureany sufferings rather than speak one word against our law. 32. Nay, indeed, in case it had so fallen out, that ournation had not been so thoroughly known among all men asthey are, and our voluntary submission to our laws had notbeen so open and manifest as it is; but that somebody hadpretended to have written these laws himself, and had readthem to the Greeks, or had pretended that he had met withmen out of the limits of the known world, that had such reve­