OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL demy, and the society of Athens; but he was con­strained, at first by the will, and afterwards by theinjustice, of Constantius, to expose his person andfame to the dangers of Imperial greatness; and tomake himself accountable to the world, and to pos­terity, for the happiness of millions *. Julian re-pollected with terror the observation of his masterPlato, that the government of our flocks and herds isalways committed to beings of a superior species; andthat the conduct of nations requires and deserves thecelestial powers of the Gods or of the Genii. Fromthis principle he justly concluded, that the man whopresumes to reign should aspire to the perfectionof the divine nature; that he should purify his soulfrom her mortal and terrestrial part; that he shouldextinguish his appetites, enlighten his understanding,regulate his passions, and subdue the wild beast,which, according to the lively metaphor of Aristotle,seldom fails to ascend the throne of a despot. Thethrone of Julian, which the death of Constantiusfixed on an independent basis, was the seat of reason,of virtue, and perhaps of vanity. He despised thehonours, renounced the pleasures, and dischargedwith incessant diligence the duties, of his exaltedstation; and there were few among his subjects whowould have consented to relieve him from the weightof the diadem, had they been obliged to submit theirtime and their actions to the rigorous laws whichtheir philosophic emperor imposed on himself., Oneof his most intimate friends f, who had often sharedthe frugal simplicity of his table, has remarked, thathis light and sparing diet (which was usually of the • Julian himself (p. 252—267.) has expressed these philosophical ideas withmuch eloquence, and some affectation, in a very elaborate epistle to Themistius. The Abbe de la Bleterie (torn. ii. p. 146 193.), who has given an elegant translation, is inclined to believe that it was the celebrated Themistius, whoseorations are still extant. f Libanius (Orat. Parentalis, c. Ixxxiv. lxxxv. p. 310, 311, 312.) has giventhis interesting detail of the private life of Julian. He himself (in Misopogon.p. 350.) mentions his vegetable diet, and upbraids the gross and sensual appe­tite of die people of Antioch.