OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 255 dismissed, accounts were brought, that the Carthagi­nian ambassadors, who were coming to treat of peace,had been seen at Puteoli, and would proceed fromthence by land; on which the senate resolved, thatCaius Laelius should be recalled, in order that he mightbe present at the proceedings. Quintus Fulvius Gillo,a lieutenant-general under Scipio, conducted the Car­thaginians to Rome, but they were forbidden to enterthe city. Apartments were provided for them in theVilla Publica, and an audience of the senate wasgranted them in the temple of Bellona. Their dis­course was nearly the same with that which they hadmade to Scipio, throwing off all the blame of the warfrom the community, and laying it on Hannibal. Theyaffirmed, that ' he had acted contrary to the orders ofthe senate, not only in passing the Alps, but even incrossing the Iberus; and that he had, without any au­thority from them, made war not only on the Romans,but before that on the Saguntines; that, if the factswere duly considered, the senate and people of Car­thage had, to that day, inviolably observed the treatywith the Romans. Therefore they had nothing fartherin charge, than to request, that they might be allowedto abide by the terms of the peace which had beenlately concluded with the consul Lutatius.' The pre-tor, according to the established custom, giving per­mission to the senators to make such inquiries of theambassadors as any of them thought proper; the oldermembers, who had been present at the concluding ofthe treaties, asked various questions relative to them.The Carthaginians replied, that they were not of anage to remember particulars (for almost all of themwere young): on which, the house resounded with ex­clamations, that Punic faith was evident, in appointingsuch men as these to solicit the renewal of a formerpeace, with the terms of which they were themselvesunacquainted. 23. The ambassadors being ordered to withdraw,the senators proceeded to give their opinions. Mar­cus Livius recommended, that' Cneius Servilius, the