OCR Output 52 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. Thus, though he was no match for them altogether,he was more than a match tor any-one of them singly.Therefore, to separate his opponents, he takes to flight,being persuaded they would follow him, with more orless expedition, as their strength, after so much loss ofblood, would permit them: Having now got a little wavfrom the seat of action, he turned and saw the Curiatiipursuing him at considerable distances from each other,and one of them not far behind him. Upon him heturns with all his force, and while the Alban army werecrying out to his brothers to assist him, Horatius havingalready dispatched his man, runs to a second engage^-raent. It was then the Rdmans animated their cham­pion with great shouts, such as generally proceed fromunexpected joy, whilst he, on the other hand, madehaste to finish his business; and before the other, whowas at no great distance, could come up to assist hisbrother, he laid him breathless at his feet% The number on each side was now equal, but theirstrength and hopes very different. The Roman, yetwithout a wound, and flushed with his double victory,advanced with great spirit to the third combat. His an­tagonist, on the other hand, weakened with the loss ofblood, and spent with miming, could scarce stand uponhis legs; and being already vanquished in the fall of hisbrothers, encounters the victor. But this could not becalled a combat. The Roman then cried out with an airof triumph, " The two first I have sacrificed to the manes"of my brothers, the third I am now to sacrifice to the"honour of my country, that Rome • may give laws"to Alba." Curiatius could scarce stand up "under hisarms, so the other plunged hjs sword in his bosom, andstripped him as he lay dead, j . - •** The Homans receive Horatius into their camp withexpressions of joy and acknowledgments, proportionedto the risk they had run. After this, both parties applvthemselves to bury their dead; but with minds widelydifferent; the Romans having acquired a considerableaccession of power, whilst the Albans were become theh-subjects. Their tombs are still to be seen on the veryspot where each of them fell: These of the two Horatii