OCR Output CHAP. L. 335 bed, in the embraces of his Egyptian captive: she pro­mised secrecy and forgiveness: he swore that he wouldrenounce the possession of Mary. Both parties forgottheir engagements, and Gabriel again descended with achapter of the Koran, to absolve him from his oath, andto exhort him freely to enjoy his captives and concu­bines, without listening to the clamours of his wives.In a solitary retreat of thirty days, he laboured, alonewith Mary, to fulfil the commands of the angel. Whenhis love and revenge were satiated, he summoned to hispresence his eleven wives, reproached their disobedienceand indiscretion, and threatened them with a sentenceof divorce, both in this world and the next: a dreadfulsentence, since those who had ascended the bed of theprophet were for ever excluded from the hope of a secondmarriage. Perhaps the incontinence of Mahomet maybe palliated by the tradition of his natural or preterna­tural gift;" he united the manly virtue of thirty of thechildren of Adam; and the apostle might rival the thir­teenth labour'1 of the Grecian Hercules.0 A more seriousand decent excuse may be drawn from his fidelity toCadijah. During the twenty-four years of their mar­riage, her youthful husband abstained from the right ofpolygamy, and the pride or tenderness of the venerablematron was never insulted by the society of a rival. Af­ter her death he placed her in the rank of the four per­fect women, with the sister of Moses, the mother of i Sibi robur ad generationem, quantum triginta virihavent, iness* jactaret: itaut unitfi hoift posset nmlivi in fceminis tatisfacerc, nt ex Arabura libris refert SinsPetrus Paschasius, c.'.?. (Maracci, Prodromus Alcoran, p. 4. p. 55.) See likewiseobservations de Belon, lib. 3. c. 10. fol. 179. recto.) Al Jannabi (Gagnier, torn. 3.p. 487.) records Ms own testimony, that he surpassed all men in conjugal vigour;and Abulfeda mentions the exclamation of Ali, who washed his body after hisdeath,—" O propheta, certe penis suns ccelum versus ereetus est." (in Yit. Mo­hammed, p. 140.) li I borrow the style of a father of the church, Ka9Xeuay 'HpaxXou; TfMrxaiJixarW•dXcv. (Greg. Nazianzen, orat . 3. p. 108.) • The common and most glorious legend includes, in a single night, the fiftyvictories of Hercules over the virgin daughters ofThestius. (Diodor.Sicul. torn. 1.Kb. 4. p, 474. Pausauias, lib. 9. p. 763. Statius Sylv. lib. 1. elcg. 3. v. 42.) ButAthensuo allows seven nights, (Diepuosophist. lib. 13. p. 556.) and Apollodorusfifty, for this arduous achievement of Hercules, who was then no more than eigh­teen years of age. (Bibliot. lib. 2. c.4. p. 111. cum notis Hevne, part 1. p. 3S2.)