OCR Output 318 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR; of them were forced to dig into the gravel upon the beachof the sea, and take up with such water as could thus begot. They were further very much straitened in their sta­tion for want of room. They had not road enough for theirships to ride in with tolerable convenience, so that alternatelyone division lay ashore to take their necessary repasts, whilstthe other launched more to sea. But what discouraged themmost was the length of the blockade, so contrary to whatthey had expected. They had imagined a few days siegewould have worn out a body of men shut up in a barrenisland, and having only salt-water for their drink. But thishad been redressed by the Lacedaemonians, who had, by apublic edict, encouraged all who were willing to carry overinto the island meal, and wine, and cheese, and any othereatable which might enable them to hold out, assigning alarge pecuniary reward for any successful attempt of thisnature, and promising freedom to every Helot who carriedthem provisions. This was performed through a series ofdangers by several; but the Helots were most active of all,who, putting off from Peloponnesus (wherever they chancedto be), landed by favour of the dark on the side of the islandwhich lies upon the main-sea. Their chief precaution wasto run over in a hard gale of wind. For whenever the windblew from the sea, they were in less danger of being disco­vered by the guard of triremes, which then could not safelylie quite round the island. In executing this service theyput every thing to hazard. As a prior valuation had beengiven in, they run their vessels on shore at all adventures;and the heavy-armed soldiers were ready to receive them atevery place most convenient for landing. Those, however,who ventured out when the weather was calm, were cer­tainly intercepted. Such, further, as were expert at diving,swam over through the harbour, dragging after them by astring bottles filled with poppies mixed up with honey andthe powder of linseed. These for a time escaped discovery,hut were afterwards closelv watched. No artifice was left