OCR Output 396 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. first year of his reign commanded that thetemple should be built in Jerusalem, and thealtar, in height sixty cubits, and its breadthof the same, with three edifices of polishedstone, and one edifice of stone of their owncountry: and he ordained that the expensesof it should be paid out of the king's revenue.He also commanded that the vessels whichNebuchadnezzar had pillaged out of the tem­ple, and had carried to Babylon, should berestored to the people of Jerusalem, and thatthe care of these things should belong to Se-nabassar, the governor, and president of Syriaand Phoenicia, and to his associates; that theymay not meddle with that place: but maypermit the servants of God, the Jews, andtheir rulers, to build the temple. He alsoordained that they shoyld assist them in thework, and that they should pay to the Jews,out of the tribute of the country where theywere governors, on account of the sacrifices,bulls, rams, lambs, and kids of the goats: andfine flour, together with oil, and wine, and allother things that the priests should suggest tothem, and that they should pray for the pre­servation of the king and of the Persians;and that for such as transgressed any of theseorders thus sent to them, he commanded thatthey should be hung on a cross, and theirsubstance confiscated to the king's use. Healso prayed to God against them, that if anyone attempted to hinder the building of thetemple, God would strike him dead, andthereby restrain his wickedness." When Darius had found this book amongthe records of Cyrus, he wrote the followinganswer to Sisinnes, and his associates:— "King Darius, to Sisinnes the governor,and to Sathrabuzanes, sendeth greeting. Hav­ing found a copy of this epistle among therecords of Cyrus, I have sent it you: and Iwill that all things be done as is therein writ­ten. Fare ye well." So when Sisinnes,Pand those that were withhim, understood the intention of the king,they resolved to follow his directions for thetime to come. So they forwarded the sacredwork, and assisted the elders of the Jews,and the princes of the Sanhedrim: and thestructure of the temple was, with great dili- * Ezra vi. 14.• t From an. 619 to an. 612. B. C. gence brought to a conclusion; by the pro­phecies of Haggai and Zachariah, accordingto God's commands, and by the injunctions ofCyrus and Darius* the kings. Now the tem­ple was built in fseven years time. And inthe ninth year of the reign of Darius, on thetwenty-third day of the twelfth month, whichis by us called Adar, but by the Macedonians,Dystrus; the priests and Levites, and themultitude of the Israelites offered sacrifices;as the renovation of their former prosperity,after their captivity; and because they hadthe temple rebuilt: a hundred bulls, two hun­dred rams, four hundred lambs, and twelvekids of the goats, according to the number oftheir tribe :f (for so many are the tribes ofthe Israelites) and this last for the sins ofevery tribe. The priest also, and the Le­vites, set the porters at every gate, accordingto the laws of Moses. The Jews also builtthe cloisters of the inner temple, that wereround about the temple itself. « And as the feast of unleavened bread wasat hand, in the first month, which accordingto the Macedonians is called Xanthicus, butaccording to us Nisan: all the people ran to­gether out of the villages to the city, andcelebrated the festival; having purified them­selves with their wives and children, accord­ing to the law of their country: and they of­fered the sacrifice called the passover, on thefourteenth day of the same month, and feastedseven days, and spared no expense, but offer­ed whole burnt-offerings to God, and per-,formed sacrifices of thanksgiving, becauseGod had led them again to the land of theirfathers, and to the laws thereto belonging;and had rendered the mind of the king ofPersia favourable to them. So these men of­fered the largest sacrifices on these accounts,and used great magnificence in the worshipof God; and dwelt in Jerusalem; and madeuse of a form of government that was aristo­cratic, but mixed with an oligarchy. Forthe high-priests were at the head of the af­fairs, until the posterity of the Asmoneansset up regal government. For before theircaptivity and the dissolution of their polity,they at first had kingly government from Sauland David, for five hundred and thirty-two J; Ezra vi. 17.