OCR Output MYOXXESCS. 3S7 MYRA. 4, Sab. a <*.), which belonged to Teo«.TV neb ..f HTonneaus 'an now called Hypsili- PSw(ff. iV.t. 37) mentions a small island of theare i llnstu near Ephesus, which, togethertil t«o <jm, Acthinae and Diarrheusa. formedinpoM rWlrati Insulae. [L. S.] inUOTSCS (M«ij'r>70-oi: Eth. MuorWicrioj),> ml kloi lying off the coast of Phthiotis inTnalt.n tie bar between Larissa Cremaste andixxa. (Sin*, ii p. 435; Steph. B. I.e.) aTiK-HORMOS {A Mi/Jj Sp,uos, Diod.,r. iu. 39;fink, niji 760—781. xvii. p. 815; PtoL iv. 5.fit ik\ 11} 18; PtrhpL Mar. Erythr. pp. 1, 6,Ukafsfiirai fyuot, Agatharch. p. 54; Venerisfna. fSo. »L 19. § 33) wan founded by PtolemyAaJofaa (a. c 174) upon a headland of similar*m (UtU, ii 8. § 7.) Ha selected it for the?n:al Wbotr and station of the trade of Aegyptw» ii.a, in pnrfrrence to Arsinoi? at the head ofbr i>i Set co account of the tedious and difficults*DSi<« inn the Heroopolite gulf. The» If'vHsi-ihb, which Indicates its Greek•Vk. say lijatfy tlie " Harbour of the Mouse,si wt pnbiblr mrans " the Harbour "of thefc« '(dir. to dose, e.g the shell),since on the*r *tint ea't ihe pearl-muscle or Pinna•*■»-. {ovif. the Hebrew pinmim, Job, xxxviii."•*». trri, 10) is collected in large quantities.Is"". Trenail, nl til p. 314, 8vo. ed.) TheP*» afterwards changed, according to Aga-aad those writers who copied him, to that''■••ci*-H'imMe; but the elder appellation Up ia»nfl» retained. Myos Honnos seems tobw rffa;aei the designation of Aphrodite (foam of^■s),ftvji the abundance of sea-sponge found in of M'w-Hormos is fixed by Bruce.*. 4t, at 17° N. It* situation is detcr-'• tioster if islands, called Jaffateen by»ifttor». of which the three largest lie'*n in indenture of the Aegyptian coastislands and on the curve of the shore''aAnr. Its entrance was oblique (Strab.T '••); bat h was spacious and sheltered, andP*"' ow to the land's edge was deep enoughJ*i> of remideralle burden.P^Honnos owed its prosperity, as well as its«. u> tbt trade with Africa, Arabia, andTV rer*la bound for Africa or the S. coastP"» bit this harbour in the month of Septem-PJ !»■ M in with the wind, which at the* steadily from NW., and carriedtie African roast, bringing them hack*> wris, K,, jfj, furthe»t S. point of the■ bias was the town of Bhaptum, in the► bwWka. 10° S. of the equator. TheP> *«-»i fat iDdia (tlie coast of Malabar orp k4 Mrw-Bonnoi in July; and if theytataeiu) of the lied Sea before tlie 1st oftber lad behind them the monsoon forrvitAs. The voyage out usually1 >imi 40 days. We are not informed of* < tt* Indian trade nnder the Ptolemies;^aijEBaf Claudius, when the route through>• sfn/aiorSrst became really known to the1 ** hm a (Mailed account of it in Pliny•'*)• That writer calculated the worth<im sent yearly from Home to the c W>.W)(. »t«rling, in exchange for which'^niwinwi of at least four times tlie value of that amount, when sold again in Rome or Con­stantinople. The caravans went up the Nile as faras Coptos, whence they travelled through thedesert for 7 or 8 days to Berenice or Myos-Hormos,and exchanged their gold for silk, spices, porcelain,and perfumes. A pound of silk was consideredequivalent to a pound of gold. Philadelphus firstopened the road between Coptos and Myos- Hormos.At first the caravans carried their water with themacross the desert, and employed camels for thetransport of merchandise. But afterwards caravan­saries (orafl/ioi') were built for the use of travellers;and wells were sunk and cisterns dug for the collec­tion of rain water; although the supply of the lattermust have been scanty and precarious, since rain inthat latitude seldom falls. The prosperity of Myos-Hormos as an emporium,however, seems to have been fluctuating, and it wasfinally supplanted as a depot at least by Berenice,which, being lower down the Red Sea, was yet moreconvenient for the southern trade. That it was fluc­tuating may be inferred from the mention of it by thegeographers. Agatharchides, who composed his workin the reign of Philometer (u. c. 180—145), in hisaccount of the Indian trade, makes no mention ofBerenice. Diodortis who wrote in the age of Augus­tus, speaks of Myos-Hormos, but not of its rival.Strabo, who was nearly contemporary with Diodorus,says that Berenice was merely a roadstead, where theIndian vessels took in their cargo, but that they layin port at Myos-Hormos. Pliny, on the other hand,in his description of the voyage to India does notnotice Myos-Hormos at all, and speaks of it inci­dentally only in his account of the W. coast of theRed Sea. Accordingly, in the reigns of Vespasianand Trajan it must have been on the decline. There is one difficulty in the relations betweenthese harbours—their distance from each other.According to the Periplus, Berenice was 1800 stadia,or 225 miles, from Myus-Honnos, and even this isunder the mark, if Cape Has-tl-anf be theLcpte Promontorium of Ptolemy. As the pretextfor founding either city was the superior convenienceof each, as compared with Arsinoc (Suez), for theIndian trade, it seems strange that the ships shouldhave been kept at Myos-Hormos, but the ladingstaken in at Berenice. It is more reasonable tosuppose that the latter became the principal empo­rium of the Indian traffic; and as that increased inimportance, the port where it was principally carriedon became the more frequented and opulent place ofthe two. It is uncertain whether the ruins at the villaee ofAbuschaar represent the site of the ancient Mvos-Hormos. [VV. B. D.'] MYRA (to Mt'po or Mupwr: F.tlt. Mvptvs), oneof the most important towns of Lycia, situated onthe river Andracus, partly on a hill and partly onthe slope of it, at a distance of 20 stadia from thesea. (Strab. xir. p. 666; Steph. B. s r.; Plin.xxxii. 8; Ptol. v. 6. § 3, viii. 17. § 23.) The smalltown of Andriaca formed its port. It is remarkablein history as the place where the apostle Paul landed(^4ct>, xxv. 5); and in later times the importance ofthe place was recognised in the fact that the em­peror Thcodosius II. raised it to the rank of thecapital of all Lycia (Hierocl. p. 684.) The townstill exists, and bears its ancient name Mgra, thoughthe l urks call it Dembre, and is remarkable for itsfine remains of antiquity. Leake (Asia Minor, p.183) mentions tlie ruins of a theatre 355 feet iu dia­ C r 2