OCR Output CHAP. L. 271 of grammar, of metre, and of rhetoric, were unknownto the freeborn eloquence of the Arabians; but theirpenetration was sharp, their fancy luxuriant, their witstrong and sententious/ and their more elaborate com-Love of positions were addressed with energy and effectP0811?- to the minds of their hearers. The genius andmerit of a rising poet were celebrated by the applauseof his own and the kindred tribes. A solemn banquetwas prepared, and a chorus of women, striking theirtymbals, and displaying the pomp of their nuptials,sung in the presence of their sons and husbands thefelicity of their native tribe; that a champion had nowappeared to vindicate their rights; that a herald hadraised his voice to immortalize their renown. The dis­tant or hostile tribes resorted to an annual fair, whichwas abolished by the fanaticism of the first Moslems;a national assembly, that must have contributed to re­fine and harmonize the barbarians. Thirty days wereemployed in the exchange, not only of corn and wine,but of eloquence and poetry. The prize was disputedby the generous emulation of the bards; the victoriousperformance was deposited in the archives of princesand emirs, and we may read, in our own language, theseven original poems which were inscribed in letters ofgold, and suspended in the temple of Mecca.* TheArabian poets were the historians and moralists of theage; and if they sympathized with the prejudices, theyinspired and crowned the virtues, of their countrymen.The indissoluble'union of generosity and valour wasthe darling theme of their song; and when they pointed 'A familiar tale in Voltaire's Zadig (le Chien et le Cheval) is related to provetho natural sagacity of the Arabs, (d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 120. 121. Gag-nier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 37—16.) but d'Arvieux, or rather La Roque,(Voyage de Palestine, p. 92.) denies the boasted superiority of the Bedoweens.The one hundred and sixty-nine sentences of Ali (translated by Ockley, London,1718.) afford a just-and favourable specimen of Arabian wit. • Pococt (Specimen, p. 158—161.) and Casira (Bibliot. Hispano-Arabica,torn. 1. p. 48. 84, &c. 119. torn. 2. p. 17, &c.) speak of the Arabian poets beforeMahomet: the seven poems of the Caaba have been published in English by sir'William Jones; but his honourable mission to India has deprived us of his ownnotes, far more interesting than the obscure and obsolete text.