OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 241 the conqueror's mind was not only subdued to pity, but,as all the Numidians are extremely amorous, the vic­torious king became the slave of his captive ;1 andgiving his right band, as a pledge for the performanceof what she had requested, he went into the palace.Immediately he began to consider within himself bywhat means he might fulfil his engagement; and notbeing able to devise any, he adopted a rash and shame­ful resolution, suggested by his love. He gave ordersthat every thing should be instantly prepared for amarriage on that same day, in order that he mightleave no room for Laelius, or Scipio himself, to pro­ceed against her as a captive, since she would then behis wife. After the marriage was concluded Laeliusarrived; and so far was he from dissembling his dis­approbation of the proceeding, that at first he even re­solved to drag her from the nuptial bed, and send herwith Syphax to Scipio: but he was afterwards pre­vailed on by the intreaties of Masinissa, who besoughthim to leave it to the Romans to determine which ofthe two kings should have Sophonisba a sharer of hisfortune. Sending away, therefore, Syphax and theother prisoners, he reduced, with the assistance ofMasinissa, all the cities of Numidia which were heldby the king's garrisons. 13. When it was announced that the detachmentwas bringing Syphax to the camp, the whole multitudepoured out, as if to the sight of a triumph. He pre­ceded the rest in chains, and was followed by a numberof noble Numidians. On this occasion every one spokein the most exalted terms of the greatness of Syphax,and the fame of his nation; thus exaggerating the re­nown of their victory. 'That was the king,' they said,'to whose dignity the two most powerful states in the l Sophonisba had been formerly betrothed to Masinissa, andbeing afterwards given to Syphax, was one reason of hisquarrelling with the Carthaginians, and joining the Romans.Another was, that in the contest between him and Mezutu-lus for the throne, his rival had been aided by the Cartha­ginians. LIV. VOL. V. «