OCR Output 4/0 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. the African navy cast anchor in the Hellespont. Theirstandard was joined at Abidus by the fugitives and exileswho thirsted for revenge; the ships of Heraclius, whoselofty masts were adorned with the holy symbols of reli­gion,8 steered their triumphant course through the Pro-pontis; and Phocas beheld from the windows of the pa­lace, his approaching and inevitable fate. The greenfaction was tempted by gifts and promises, to oppose afeeble and fruitless resistance to the landing of the Afri­cans; but the people, and even the guards, were deter­mined by the well-timed defection of Crispus; and thetyrant was seized by a private enemy, who boldly invadedthe solitude of the palace. Stripped of the diadem andpurple, clothed in a vile habit, and loaded with chains, hewas transported in a small boat to the imperial galley ofHeraclius, who reproached him with the crimes of hisabominable reign. "Wilt thou govern better?" werethe last words of the despair of Phocas. After sufferingeach variety of insult and torture, his head was severedfrom his body, the mangled trunk was cast into theflames, and the same treatment was inflicted on the sta­tues of the vain usurper, and the seditious banner of thegreen faction. The voice of the clergy, the senate, andthe people, invited Heraclius to ascend the throne whichhe had purified from guilt and ignominy; after someReign of graceful hesitation he yielded to their entreaties. Hisa.'d! 6io, coronation was accompanied by that of his wife Eudoxia;a" d56« anc^ their posterity, till the fourth generation, continuedFeb. 11. to reign over the empire of the east. The voyage ofHeraclius had been easy and prosperous, the tediousmarch of Nicetas was not accomplished before thedecision of the contest: but he submitted without amurmur to the fortune of his friend, and his laudableintentions were rewarded with an equestrian statue, and % According to Theophanes tu@»rria and ftxova dcojuijrffof. Cedrenas adds anaprEippn-ottiTov Eucora rov xvpov, whicli Heraclias bore as a banner in the first Persianexpedition. See George Pisid. Acroas I. 140. The manufacture seems to haveflourished; hut Foggiui, the Roman editor,(p. 26.) is at a loss to determine whetherthis picture was an original or a copy.