OCR Output 320 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. rable cavalry. I am not ignorant of the road whichthey have followed to invade your empire; nor can I bedeceived by the vain pretence, that mount Caucasus isthe impregnable barrier of the Romans. I know thecourse of the Niester, the Danube, and the Hebrus; themost warlike nations have yielded to the arms of theTurks; and from the rising to the setting sun the earthis my inheritance." Notwithstanding this menace, asense of mutual advantage soon renewed the alliance ofthe Turks and Romans: but the pride of the great khansurvived his resentment: and when he announced animportant conquest to his friend the emperor Maurice,he styled himself the master of the seven races, and thelord of the seven climates of the world."state of Disputes having often arisen between the sovereignsa!d!*500- of Asia, for the title of king of the world; while the530- contest has proved that it could not belong to either ofthe competitors. The kingdom of the Turks wasbounded by the Oxus or Gihon; and Touran was sepa­rated by that great river from the rival monarch of Iran,or Persia,.which, in a smaller compass, contained perhapsa larger measure of power and population. The Per^sians, who alternately invaded and repulsed the Turks andthe Romans, were still ruled by the house of Sassan,which ascended the throne three hundred years beforethe accession of Justinian. His contemporary, Cabades,or Kobad, had been successful in war against the empe­ror Anastasius; but the reign of that prince was distractedby civil and religious troubles. A prisoner in the handsof his subjects; an exile among the enemies of Persia;he recovered his liberty by prostituting the honour ofhis wife, and regained his kingdom with the dangerousand mercenary aid of the barbarians, who had slain hisfather. His nobles were suspicious that Kobad neverforgave the authors of his expulsion, or even those of • All the details of these Turkish and Roman embassies, so ourions in the historyof human manners, are drawn from the Extracts of Menaniler, (p. 106—110. 151—154.161—164.) in which we often regret the want of order and connexion. <