OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL 1dnd. The seven hills of Rome had been surrounded by the suc­cessors of Romulus, with an ancient wall of more than thirteenmiles 4\ The vast inclosure may seem disproportioned to thestrength and numbers of the infant state. But it was necessary tosecure an ample extent of pasture and arable land, against the fre­quent and sudden incursions of the tribes of Latium, the perpetualenemies of the republic. With the progress of Roman greatness,the city and its inhabitants gradually increased, filled up the vacantspace, pierced through the useless walls, covered the field of Mars,and, on every, fide, followed the public highways in long andbeautiful suburbs 4'. The extent of the new walls, erected by Au-relian, and finished in the reign of Probus, was magnified by popu­lar estimation to near fifty 41; but is reduced by accurate measure­ment to about twenty-one miles 4J. It wasa great but a mela'ncholylabour, since the defence of the capital betrayed the decline of themonarchy. The Romans of a more prosperous age, who trusted tothe arms of the legions the safety of the frontier camps 44, were veryfar from entertaining a.suspicion, that it would ever become necessaryto fortify the seat of empire against the inroads of the barbarians 4S.^urdian sup- ^ne victory or" Claudius* over the Goths, and the success ofloesses the Aurelian against the Alemanni, had already restored to the arms of ;wo usurpers. ... Rome their ancient superiority over the barbarous nations of theNorth. To chastise domestic tyrants, and to reunite the dismem­bered parts of the empire, was a task reserved for the latter of those- warlike emperors. Though he was acknowledged by the senate andpeople, the frontiers of Italy, Africa, IHyricum, and Thrace, confinedthe limits of his reign. Gaul, Spain, and Britain, Egypt, Syria, andAsia minor, were still possessed by two rebels, who alone, out of sonumerous a list, had hitherto escaped the dangers of their situation jand to complete the ignominy of Rome, these rival thrones had been.usurped by women. A rapid