OCR Output 29'2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. up in the tower, and there, on certain conditions, dismissed him.Phasaelus also complained of Hyrcanus, that although he hadreceived a great many benefits from them; yet did he supporttheir enemies; for Malichus' brother made many places to re­volt, and kept garrisons in them, and particularly Masada, thestrongest fortress of them all. In the meantime Herod was re­covered of his disease, and came and took from Felix all theplaces he had gotten; and, upon certain conditions, dismissedhim also. CHAP. XII. Herod ejects Antigonus, the son of Aristolndus, out of Judea, andgains the friendship of Antony, who was now come into Syria,by sending him much money; on which account he would notadmit of those that would have accused Herod ,- and what itwas that Antony wrote to the Tyrians in behalf of the Jews. § 1. JN ow * Ptolemy the son of Menneus, brought backinto Judea, Antigonus the son of Aristobulus, who had alreadyraised an army, and had, by money, made Fabius to be his friend,and this because he was of kin to him. Marion also gave himassistance. He-had been left by Cassius to tyrannize over Tyre,for this Cassius was a man that seized on Syria, and then kept itunder in the way of a tyrant. Marion also marched into Ga­lilee, which lay in his neighbourhood, and took three of his for­tresses, and put garrisons into them to keep them. But whenHerod came, he took all from him ; but the Tyrian garrison hedismissed in a very civil manner; nay, to some of the soldiers hemade presents out of the good-will he bore to that city. Whenhe had dispatched these affairs, and was gone to meet Antigonus,he joined battle with him, and beat him, and drove him out ofJudea presently, when he was just come into its borders. Butwhen he was come to Jerusalem, Hyrcanus and the people putgarlands about his head; for he had already contracted an af­finity with the family of Hyrcanus by having espoused a descen-dantof his, andfor that reason Herod took the greater care of him, * In this and the following chapters, the reader will easily remark, how truly Gro-novius observes, in his notes on the Roman decrees in favour of the Jews, that theirrights and privileges were commonly purchased of the Romans with money. Manyexamples of this sort, both as to the Romans, and others in authority, will occur inour Josephus, both now and hereafter, and need not be taken particular notice of onthe several occasions in these notes. Accordingly, the chief captain confesses toSt. Paul, that " with a great sum be had obtained his freedom," Act* xxii. 28. a>had Paul's ancestors, very probably, purchased the like freedom for their family bymoney, as the same author justly concludes also.