OCR Output THE DECLINE AM) FALL racks: the lands, moveables, and cattle, were confiscated; and our modern prece»dents will support the charge, that much wanton or malicious havoc was exer->cised against the relics, and even the books, of the monasteries. With the habitand profession of monks, the public and private worship of images was rigorouslyproscribed; and it should seem, that a solemn abjuration of idolatry was exactedfrom the subjects, or at least from the clergy, of the eastern empire.(l) The patient east abjured, with reluctance, her sacred images: they were fondlycherished, and vigorously defended, by the independent zeal of the Italians. Inecclesiastical rank and jurisdiction, the patriarch of Constantinople and the popeof Rome were nearly equal. But the Greek prelate was a domestic slave underthe eye of his master, at whose nod he alternately passed from the convent to thethrone, and from the throne to the convent. A distant and dangerous stationamidst the barbarians of the west, excited the spirit and freedom of the Latin bi­shops. Their popular election endeared them to the Romans; the public and pri­vate indigence was relieved by their ample revenue; and the weakness or neglectof the emperors compelled them to consult, both in peace and war, the temporalsafety of the city. In the school of adversity the priest insensibly imbibed thevirtues and the ambition of a prince; the same character was assumed, the samepolicy was adopted, by the Italian, the Greek, or the Syrian, who ascended thechair of St. Peter; and, after the loss of her legions, and provinces, the genius andfortune of the popes again restored the supremacy of Rome. It is agreed, that,in the eighth century, their dominion was founded on rebellion, and that the rebellionwas produced, and justified,.by the heresy of the Iconoclasts; but the conduct of thesecond and third Gregory, in this memorable contest, is variously interpreted bythe wishes of their friends and enemies. The Byzantine writers unanimouslydeclare, that, after a fruitless admonition, they pronounced the separation of theeast and west.and deprived the sacrilegious tyrant of the revenue and sovereigntyof Italy. Their excommunication is still more clearly expressed by the Greeks,who beheld the accomplishment of the papal triumphs; and as they are morestrongly attached to their religion than to their country, they praise, instead ofblaming, the zeal and orthodoxy of these apostolical men. (2) The modern cham­pions of Rome are eager to accept the praise and the precedent: this great andglorious example of the disposition of royal heretics is celebrated by the cardinalsBaronius and Bellarmine;(3) and if they are asked, why the same thunders werenot hurled against the Neros and Julians of antiquity; they reply, that the weak­ness of the primitive church was the sole cause of her patient loyalty. (4) On thisoccasion, the effects of love and hatred are the same, and the zealous protestants,. who seek to kindle the indignation, and to alarm the fears, of princes and magis­trates, expatiate on the insolence and treason of the two Gregories against theirlawful sovereign. (5) They are defended only by the moderate catholics, for themost part, of the Gallican church,(6) who respect the saint without approving thesin. These common advocates of the crown and the mitre circumscribe thetruth of facts by the rule of equity, Scripture, and tradition; and appcal(") to (1) Efby&fifM y«o t"-ittt;il><. xaerx zrxtrxv ei'sepx'sef T*'.' -J-o r^; y,t ipif «'jt5'j, nwTsts ejri) ex\xi zx' tfMWMi Teu*5iTr;-trxt t*v ir?><rx*>yr<rtvTuv Titrrw n'tcivvv. (Damascen. Oj>. torn. i. p. 625.) Tbil oath and subscription I do Dot re­member to have seen in any modern compilation. (2) Koei Ttti- Pj»p»* <rw itztk Itxkix rr.i &xirt\nxf xurcv «ff0TT(i5"i, says Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 3-13.) Forthis Gregory is stylM by Cedrenus mvxf xrrerToKixs; (p. 450.) Zonaras specifies the thunder xvxSrpxt* rrvveiStxae(torn. ii. lib. xt. p. 104> 105.) It may be obse rved that the Greeks are apt to confound the times and actionsof two Gregories. (3) See Baronius, Annal.ijccles. A. D. 730. No. 4, 5. dignum fxemplum ! Bellarmin, de Romano Pontifipe,lib. s'. c. 8, roulctavit enm pane imperii. Sigonius, de Regno Italise. lib. iii. Opera, torn. ii. p. 169. Yet suchis the chartge or Italy, that Sigcnius is corrected by the editor of Milan, Phihppus Argelatus, a Bolognese,And subject of the pope, (4) Quod si Christian'! olim non (eposucnint Xeronem aut Juliarium, id fuit quia deerant Tires temporalesChristianis (Honest Bellarmine, de Pom. Pont. lib. v. c. 7.) Cardinal Perron adds a distinction more honoura­ble to the first Christians, but not mot* satisfactory to modern princes—the treason of heretics and apostates,who break their oath, belie their coin, ami renounce their allegiance to Christ and his Wear (Perroniana, p. 89.) (5) Take, as a specimen, the cautious Ibunage (Hist. de. I'Eglise, p. 1350. 1351.,) and the Tenement Span-heim(Hist. Imagimim,) who, with a hundred more, tread in the footsteps of the centuriators of Mai '■ ' ■■— ' dCT (Hi„ - ! (lstoria .. r-— —.v.,.™,..... .«.uaiiHaii9viiuuji in me nein oi control™-■ " party, who stand on^the open middle ground, exposed to the fire of both sides (6> s# m°y (°P«a, 'Oni.T. pars 2.epist. 7. 7. p. 456-474.) Natalis Alexander (Hist. Not. Test!secuh Tin. dissert. 1. p. P2-S6..)Pagi (Critica, torn. iii. p. 215,216.,) and Giannone (lstoria CiTile di 1torn. i. p. 317—320.,) a disciple of the Gallican school. In the field of controveny I always pity the m(party, who stand on the open middle ground, exposed to the fire of both sides. (7) They appealed to Paul Warnefrid, or Diaconus (de Gestis Langobard. lib. yi. c. 49. p. 506, 507. inItal. Muratori, torn.,. pars 1. J and the nominal Anastasius (de Vit. Pont, in Muratori, torn. iii. pars. 1.J w.- R~nus IX p. 154. Gregorius III. p. 158. Zacharias, p. Ml. Stephanns III. p. 165. Paulns, p. 172. Stephanui IV. p.174. Hadrianus, p. 179. Leo III. p. 195. Yet I may remark, that the true Anastasius (Hist. Eccles. p. 134. edit.Reg.J and the Histona Mi.ce)la,(l,b. xxi. p. 151. in torn. i. Script. Hal. both of the ninth century; translateand approve the Greek text of Theophanea. "