OCR Output 626 ROMAN EMPIRE. vinces of Syria and Egypt were twice dismembered byThe Tou- their Turkish slaves, of the race of Toulon andIkshidf These barbarians, in religion and man-lif05'ners tne countrymen of Mahomet, emerged fromshidues, the bloody factions of the palace to a provincial934^-968. command and an independent throne: theirnames became famous and formidable in their time; butthe founders of these two potent dynasties confessed,either in words or actions the vanity of ambition. Thefirst on his death-bed implored the mercy of God to asinner, ignorant of the limits of his own power: the se­cond, in the midst of four hundred thousand soldiers andeight thousand slaves, concealed from every human eyethe chamber where he attempted to sleep. Their sons•were educated in the vices of kings; and both Egyptand Syria were recovered and possessed by the Abbas-sides during an interval of thirty years. In the declineof their empire, Mesopotamia, with the important citiesof Mosul and Aleppo, was occupied by the ArabianThe Hama- princes of the tribe of Hamadan. The poets ofAJcTsga tnQrr court could repeat, wrthout a blush, that—looi. nature had formed their countenances for beauty,their tongues for eloquence, and their hands for libera­lity and valour: but' the genuine tale of the elevationand reign of the Hamadanites exibits a scene of trea­chery, murder, and parricide. At the same fatal periodthe Persian kingdom was again usurped by the dynastyThe Bo- of the Bowides,by the sword of three brothers,A! D! 923 who, under various names, were styled the sup-—1005. p0rj. and columns Of the state, and who, from theCaspian sea to the ocean, would suffer no tyrants butthemselves. Under their reign, the language and geniusof Persia revived, and the Arabs, three hundred and fouryears after the death of Mahomet, were deprived of thesceptre of the east. MVI. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. .". p. 124—154.) has exhausted theTou-lunidcs and Ikabidites of Egypt, and thrown some light on the Carmathiaos andHamadanites.