OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 415. B.C. 337.] The latter elected consuls, Titus Man-lius Torquatus a third time, and Publius Decius Mus.It is agreed on all hands that, in this year, Alexander,king of Epirus, made a descent with a fleet on Italy, inwhich expedition, had his first attempts been crownedwith success, he would, without doubt, have carried hisarms against the Romans. This period was also dis­tinguished by the exploits of Alexander the Great, son'to the other's sister, who, in another quarter of theglobe, after showing himself invincible in war, wasdoomed by fortune to be cut off by sickness in theprime of life. Now the Romans, although they enter-,tained not a doubt of the revolt of their allies, and ofthe Latine nation, yet, as if they acted in behalf of the.Samnites, not of themselves, summoned ten of thechiefs of the Latines to appear at Rome, and receivetheir orders. The Latines had at that time two pre-tors, Lucius Annius, a native of Setia, and Lucius Nu-micius, of Circei, both Roman colonists ; through whosemeans, besides Signia and Velitra:, which belonged tothe Romans, the Yolscians also had been engaged tojoin in the war. It was thought proper that these twoshould be particularly summoned; every one clearlyperceived on what account they were sent for: the pre-tors, therefore, before they set out for Rome, called ageneral assembly, whom they informed that they werecalled to attend the Roman senate, and desired theiropinion with respect to the business which they sup­posed would be the subject of discussion, and to makeknown to them the answers which they chose shouldbe given on the occasion. 4. After several different opinions had been advancedAnnius said, ' Although I myself proposed the question,of what answer should be made, yet, in my judgment,the general interest requires that you determine howwe are to act, rather than how we are to speak. Whenyour designs shall be clearly unfolded, it will be easyto adapt words to the subject; for if we are still capa­ble of submitting to slavery, under the shadow of aconfederacy between equals, what have we more to do