OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. lewdness and perfidy." By these implacable enemies,Heraclius, on either side, was insulted and besieged: andthe Roman empire was reduced to the walls of Constan­tinople, with the remnant of Greece, Italy, and Africa,and some maritime cities, from Tyre to Trebizond, ofthe Asiatic coast. After the loss of Egypt, the capitalwas afflicted by famine and pestilence; and the emperor,incapable of resistance, and hopeless of relief, had resolvedto transfer his person and government to the more secureresidence of Carthage. His ships were already laden withthe treasures of the palace, but his flight was arrested bythe patriarch, who armed the powers of religion in thedefence of his country, led Heraclius to the altar of St.Sophia, and extorted a solemn oath, that he would liveand die with the people whom God had intrusted to hiscare. The chagan was encamped in the plains of Thrace,but he dissembled his perfidious designs, and solicited aninterview with the emperor near the town of Heraclea.Their reconciliation was celebrated with equestriangames; the senate and people in their gayest apparel re­sorted to the festival of peace, and the Avars beheld, withenvy and desire, the spectacle of Roman luxury. On asudden the hippodrome was encompassed by the Scythiancavalry, who had pressed their secret and nocturnalmarch: the tremendous sound of the chagan's whip gavethe signal of the assault; and Heraclius, wrapping hisdiadem round his arm, was saved, with extreme hazard,by the fleetness of his horse. So rapid was the pursuit,that the Avars almost entered the golden gate of Con­stantinople with the flying crowds ;b but the plunder ofthe suburbs rewarded their treason, and they transportedbeyond the Danube, two hundred and seventy thousandcaptives. On the shore of Chalcedon, the emperor held » Panl Warnefrid, de Gestis Langobardorum, lib. 4. c. 38. 42. Muratori, Annalid'ltalia, torn. 5. p.'S05, &c. b The Paschal Chronicle, which sometimes Introduces fragments of history into »barren list of names and dates, gives the best account of the treason of the Avars,f. 389, 390. The number of captives is added by Nicenhorus.