OCR Output 996 SID SIDODOXE. their special attack on this petty people to oppose amore powerful coalition (M. 2,4, 5). It is clear thatthe Sidicini took part us allies of the Latins andCampanians in the war that followed: but we haveDO account of the terms they obtained in the generalsettlement of the peace in b, c. 338. It is certain,however, that they retained their independence, asimmediately afterwards wo rind thein engaging in awar on their own account with their neighbours theAuruncana. The Romans espoused the defence ofthe latter people, but before they were able to taketlie field, the Auruncans were compelled to abandontheir ancient city, which was destroyed by the Sidi­cini, and withdraw to Suessa. (Liv. viii. 15.) TheAusoniaitt of Cales had on this occasion been inducedto make common cause with the Sidicini, but theircombined forces were easily defeated by the Romanconsuls. Cales soon after fell into the hands of theHumans; but though the territory of the Sidiciniwas overrun by the consuls of b. C. 332, who estab­lished their winter-quarters there to watch themovements of the Samnites, their city of Teauumstill held out (lb. 16, 17). Nor do we know atwhat time it fell into the power of the Romans, oron what terms the Sidicini were ultimately receivedto submission. But it is probable that this tookplace before B. c. 297, when we are told that theconsul Decios Mus advanced to attack the Samnites*'per Sidicinum agrmn " in a manner that certainlyimplies the district to have been at that time friendly,if not subject, to Home (Liv. x. 14). After this the name of the Sidicini never appearsin history as that of a people, but their territory (the"Sidicinns ager") is mentioned during the SecondTunic War, when it was traversed and ravaged byHannibal on his march from Capua to Rome (Liv.xxvi. 9). The Sidicini seem to have gradually cometo be regarded as a mere portion of the Campanianpeople, in common with the Ausonians of Cales andthe Auruncans of Suessa, and the name still occursoccasionally as a municipal designation equivalent tothe Tcauenses (Liv. xxvi. 15: Cic, Phil. \\. 41).Stiabo speaks of them in his time as an extinct tribeof Oscan race: and under the Roman Empire theonly trace of them preserved was in the epithet ofSidieiimm, which still continued to be applied to thecity of Tearuun. (Strab. v. p. 237; Tlin. hi. 5. s.9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 68; SU. Ital. v. 551, xii. 524.)[Tkanu.m.] [K. H. B.] SIDODOUE (5i5u5t£y7] or SnTj5wr/>, Arrian Jnd.c. 37), a small place on the coast of Carmania,noticed by Arrian in Xearchus's voyage. Keinp-thorne thinks that it is represented by a smallfishing village called Mogou; but Miiller suggests,what seems more probable, that is the present Duan.(Geogr. Grace. Minor, p. 359, ed. Miiller. Paris,1855.) [V.] SIDOLOCUS or SIDOLEUCUS, in Gallia, ismentioned by Ammianus Mareellinus when he isspeaking of Julian's march from Augustodunum toAutissiodurum. Sidolocum is supposed to bzSaulieu[Ciioka.] [G. L.] SI DON (2i5u£v: Eth. SiSwwos,), a very ancientand important maritime city of Phoenicia, which,according to Josephus, derived its origin and namefrom Sidon, the firstborn son of Canaan (Gen. x.15; Joseph. Ant. i. 6. § 2), and is mentioned byMoses as the northern extremity of the Canaanitishsettlements, as Gaza was the southernmost (Gen.x. 19); and in the blessing of Jacob it is said ofZebulun "his border shall be unto Sidon" (xlix. 13). At the time of tlof Israel, it was alreacpellation of "the GreatLXX. ver. 2), and was iwhich was drawn frorMount Hot in Num. xxSidon, where it is menttribe of Asher, as also i(Josh. xix. 28, 29.) 1from which the Israeliteinhabitants. (Judg. i.! As the origin of thisquestion of its prioritycommercial importance,political government, itsand its manufactures, 1Phoenicia, it only remof its geographical posithey either serve to ilkits history. It is stated by Josejourney from the site(Ant v. 3. § 1). Stra!Berytus, 200 N.of Tyrton a fair haven of tlattempt to settle the icities, but remarks thabrated by the poets (ofmuch as name Tyre).Spain, even beyond themore honour to Tyredotus's account of thegiven under Phokmulto be in accordance 1Justin follows it, but githe name: M Condita ur!Sidona appellaverunt, avvcaut; " but this is anand Gesem'us (LtZ, s. r * to hunt or snaindifferently, so that tinname from the occup;fibers, and not from IHitter refers to the parasea of Tiberias. (ICrdkPliny, who mentions itque Boeotiarum parens,*oppida " between it andxxx. m. r. from BerytcItinerary of Antoninus (]Hierosolymitanuin reckplacing Hetdua and PScylax. mentions the clokKutos, p. 42, ed. Hndescribed by a later w:a. I>. 500), who repres*Assyrian sea, itself thnicians, whose citizensThebans. A double luwide gulf; for where thihand side, a second moiwhich the water agairmay be regarded as a 1this inner basin, the Teathe winter, while the ocmer. (Cited by Kelaninner port Behind conje<is the closed port of Scjthe second harbour d«where he says there wajharbour, called the Eg;