OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. part of the treasure, and, what was dearer than any treasure, severalof the women of the Great King; who was at last obliged to repassthe Euphrates with some marks of haste and confusion '*9. By thisexploit, Odenathus laid the foundations of his future fame and for足tunes. The majesty of Rome, oppressed by a Persian, was protectedby a Syrian or Arab of Palmyra. The voice of history, which is often little more than the organ Treatment ofof hatred or flattery, reproaches Sapor with a proud abuse of the Vakria11,rights of conquest. We are told that Valerian, in chains, but in足vested with the imperial purple, was exposed to the multitude a con足stant spectacle of fallen greatness; and that whenever the Persianmonarch mounted on horseback, he placed his foot on the neck of aRoman emperor, Notwithstanding all the remonstrances of hiaallies, who repeatedly advised him to remember the vicissitude offortune, to dread the returning power of Rome, and to make hisillustrious captive the pledge of peace, not the object of insult, Saporstill remained inflexible. When Valerian sunk under the weight ofshame and grief, his sldn, stuffed with straw, and formed into thelikeness of a human figure, was preserved for ages in the most cele足brated temple of Persia; a more real monument of triumph, thanthe fancied trophies of brass and marble so often erected by Romanvanity150. The tale is moral and pathetic, but the truth of it mayvery fairly be called in question. The letters still extant from theprinces of the East to Sapor, are manifest forgeries ,J'; nor is itnatural to suppose that a jealous monarch should, even in the personof a rival, thus publickly degrade the majesty of kings. Whatevertreatment the unfortunate Valerian might experience in Persia, it isat least certain, that the only emperor of Rome who ever fell intothe hands of the enemy, languished away his life in hopelesscaptivity. The emperor Gallienus, who had long supported with impatience, Character andthe censorial severity of his father and colleague, received the in- of QdSnS? telligence