OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 337 conciled the victors and the vanquished. Like the con­temporary philosophers, the lawyers of the age of theAntonines disclaimed the authority of a master, andadopted from every system the most probable doctrines.8But their writings would have been less voluminous, hadtheir choice been more unanimous. The conscience ofthe judge was perplexed by the number and weight ofdiscordant testimonies, and every sentence that his pas­sion or interest might pronounce, was'justified by thesanction of some venerable name. An indulgent edictof the younger Theodosius excused him from the labourof comparing and weighing their arguments. Five ci­vilians, Caius, Papinian, Paul, Ulpian, and Modestinus,were established as the oracles of jurisprudence: a ma­jority was decisive; but if their opinions were equallydivided, a casting vote was ascribed to the superior wis­dom of Papinian.8 When Justinian ascended the throne, the reformation Reforma-of the Roman jurisprudence was an arduous but indis- R°°°^th*pensable task. In the space of ten centuries, the infinitelaw ]>yvariety of laws and legal opinions had filled many thou- a. d. 527,sand volumes, which no fortune could purchase and no &0"capacity could digest. Books could not easily be found;and the judges, poor in the midst of riches, were reducedto the exercise of their illiterate discretion. The sub­jects of the Greek provinces were ignorant of the lan­guage that disposed of their lives and properties; andthe barbarous dialect of the Latins was imperfectly stu­died in the academies of Berytus and Constantinople.As an Illyrian soldier, that idiom was familiar to the in­fancy of Justinian; his youth had been instructed by thelessons of jurisprudence, and his imperial choice selected 1 fylascou, de Sectis, c. 8. p. 120—144. de Heriscundis, a legal term which wasapplied to these eolectic lawyers: herciscere is synonymous to dividere. a See the Theodosian Code, lib. 1. tit. 4. with Godefroy's Commentary, tom. 1.p. 30—35. This decree might give occasion to Jesuitical disputes like those inthe Lettres Provinciales, whether a judge was obliged to follow the opinion of Pa­pinian, or of a majority, against his judgment, against his conscience, &c. Yeta legislator might give that opinion, however false, the validity, not of truth, butof law.