OCR Output 298 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. thought it agreeable to the dignity of his go­vernment to give them such an answer. Ac­cordingly when the multitude was assembledto hear his answer on the third day, all thepeople were in great expectation, and veryintent to hear what the king would say tothem; and supposed they should hear some­what of a kind nature, but he passed by hisfriends, and answered as the young men hadgiven him counsel.* Now this was done ac­cording to the will of God; that what Ahijahhad foretold might come to pass. By these words the people were struck, asit were by an iron hammer; and were sogrieved as if they had already felt the effectsof them; and they had great indignation atthe king: and all cried out aloud, and said,"We will have no longer any relation toDavid, or his posterity,f after this day; andwill only leave to Rehoboam the temple whichhis father built." Nay they were so bitter,and retained their wrath so long, that whenhe sent Adoram, who was over the tribute,that he might pacify them, and persuadethem to forgive him, if he had said any thingthat was rash or grievous to them in hisyouth, they would not hear it; but threwstones at him, and killed him. When Reho­boam saw this, he thought himself aimed atby those stones, with which the multitude hadkilled his servant: and feared lest he shouldundergo the last of punishments in earnest.So he got immediately into his chariot4 andfled to Jerusalem. There the tribe of Judahand that of Benjamin ordained him for theirking: but the rest of the multitude forsookthe sons of David, from that day; and ap­pointed Jeroboam to be the ruler of their public affairs. Upon this, Rehoboam assem­bled a great congregation of those two tribesthat had submitted to him, and was ready totake a hundred and eighty thousand chosenmen out of the army, and to make an expedi­tion against Jeroboam and his people; thathe might force them by war to be his ser­vants. But he was forbidden of God by theprophet Shemaiah to go to war.|| For thatit was not just, that brethren of the samecountry should fight against one another.He also said, that this defection of the mul­titude was according to the purpose of God.So he did not proceed in this expedition.§And now I will relate first the actions ofJeroboam, the king of Israel; and afterwardswhat are therewith connected, the actions ofRehoboam, the king of the two tribes. Bythis means we shall preserve the order ofthe history unbroken. When Jeroboam had built him a palace inthe city Shechem, he dwelt there. He alsobuilt him another at a city called Penual. Andnow the feast of tabernacles was approachingin a little time, Jeroboam considered, that ifhe should permit the multitude to go to wor­ship God at Jerusalem, and there to celebratethe festival, they would probably repent ofwhat they had done, and be enticed by thetemple, and by the worship of God thereperformed; and would leave him, and returnto their first king; and if so, he should runthe risk of losing his own life. So he madetwo golden heifers, and built two little tem­ples for them; the one in the city Bethel,and the other in Dan:** which last was thefffountains of the lesser Jordan: and he putthe heifers into both the little temples, in of scorpions, such as is our furze-bush; or else someterrible sort of whip of the like nature. See Hudson'sand Spenheim's Notes here, and Mr. Barker's parallelobservations. * 1 Kings xii. 13. t 1 Kings xii. 16. | This is the first time that we read of a king's ridingin a chariot. Saul, David, and Solomon, rode in none:but after the division of the kingdom, mention is fre­quently made of the use of them, both by the kings ofJudah and Israel. Patrick'$ Commentary. B. II This prophet was very well known in the reign ofRehoboam. He is supposed to have wrote the annals ofthat prince; and of what authority he was in Judah, wemay gather from this passage, where he is said to haveprevailed with the king, and a hundred and four scorethousand men, to lay down their arms, and return home, merely by declaring, that the division which had hap­pened was the appointment and order of God. CalmefsCommentary. B. § 1 Kings xii. 24. ** 1 Kings xii. 29. tt Whether these fountains of the lesser Jordan werenear a place called Dan, and the fountains of the greaternear a place called Jor, before their conjunction; orwhether there was only one fountain, arising at the lakePhiala; at first sinking under the ground; then rising nearthe mountain Paneum, and thence running through thelake Semochonites to the sea of Galilee, and so far calledthe lesser Jordan, is hardly certain even in Josephus him­self; though the latter account be the most probable. SeeRelancPs Palestine, tom. I. lib. I. c. 41, 43. However thenorthern idolatrous calf, set up by Jeroboam, was wherelittle Jordan fell into great Jordan; near a place called