OCR Output 90 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. at that time naked and open to the eyes of all. Of the twoconsuls of this year, the one fought without success in Sicilyagainst the revolted slaves, and the other, Scipio .Smilianus,was employed for months not in conquering, but in crush­ing a small Spanish country town. If Gracchus still neededa special summons to carry his resolution into effect, hefound it in this state of matters, which filled the mind of everypatriot with unspeakable anxiety. His father-in-law pro­mised assistance in counsel and action; the support of thejurist Scaevola, who had shortly before been elected consul133. for 621, might be hoped for. So Gracchus, immediatelyHis agrarian after entering on office, proposed the enactment of an agra-law. riall laW, which in a certain sense was nothing but a renewal 367. of the Licinio-Sextian law of 387 (i. 304). Under it allthe state-lands which were occupied and enjoyed by thepossessors without remuneration—those that were let onlease, such as the territory of Capua, were not affected bythe law—were to be resumed on behalf of the state; but withthe restriction, that each occupier should reserve for himself500 jugera and for each son 250 (so as not, however, toexceed 1000 jugera in all) in permanent and guaranteed pos­session, or should be entitled to claim compensation in landto that extent. Indemnification appears to have been grantedfor any improvements executed by the former holders, such asbuildings and plantations. The domain land thus resumedwas to be broken up into lots of 30 jugera; and thesewere to be distributed partly to burgesses, partly to Italianallies, not as their own free property, but as inalienableheritable leaseholds, whose holders bound themselves to usethe land for agriculture and to pay a moderate rent to thestate. A collegium of three men, who were regarded asordinary and standing magistrates of the state and wereannually elected by the assembly of the people, was in­trusted with the work of confiscation and distribution; towhich was afterwards added the important and difficultfunction of legally settling what was domain land, and whatwas private property. The distribution was accordingly de­signed to go on continuously, and to embrace the whole classthat should be in need of it; and in that view we must pro­bably assume that, when the Italian domains which werevery extensive and difficult of adjustment should be finallyregulated, further measures were contemplated, such as,for instance, the disbursement to the allotment-commis­