OCR Output CHAP. XL1V.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the supreme tribunal of the people. But a wild demo­cracy, superior to the forms, too often disdains the es­sential principles, of justice: the pride of despotism wasenvenomed by plebeian envy, and the heroes of Athensmight sometimes applaud the happiness of the Persian,whose fate depended on the caprice of a single tyrant.Some salutary restraints, imposed by the people on theirown passions, were at once the cause and effect of thegravity and temperance of the Romans. The right ofaccusation was confined to the magistrates. A vote ofthe thirty-five tribes could inflict a fine: but the cogni­sance of all natural crimes was reserved by a fundamentallaw to the assembly of the centuries, in which the weightof influence and property was sure to preponderate. Re­peated proclamations and adjournments were interposed,to allow time for prejudice and resentment to subside;the whole proceeding might be annulled by a seasonableomen, or the opposition of a tribune; and such populartrials were commonly less formidable to innocence, thanthey were favourable to guilt. But this union of the judi­cial and legislative powers, left it doubtful whether the ac­cused party was pardoned or acquitted; and in the defenceof an illustrious client, the orators of Rome and Athensaddressed their arguments to the policy and benevolence,as well as to the justice, of their sovereign. 2. The taskof convening the citizens for the trial of each offenderbecame more difficult, as the citizens and the offenderscontinually multiplied; and the ready expedient wasadopted of delegating the jurisdiction of the people tothe ordinary magistrates, or to extraordinary inquisitors.In the first ages these questions were rare and occasional.In the beginning of the seventh century of Rome theywere made perpetual; for praetors were annually em­powered to sit in judgment on the state offences of trea­son, extortion, peculation, and bribery ; and Sylla addednew praetors and new questions for those crimes whichmore directly injure the safety of individuals. By these