OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 199 faults, by his unaristocratic disinterestedness no less than byhis boorish uncouthness; he was called by the multitude athird Eomulus and a second Camillus; libations were pouredforth to him like the gods. It was no wonder, that the headof the peasant's son grew giddy at times with all this glory;that he compared his march from Africa to Gaul to the vic­torious processions of Dionysus from continent to continent,and had a cup—none of the smallest—manufactured for hisuse after the model of that of Bacchus. There was just asmuch of hope as of gratitude in that delirious enthusiasm ofthe people, which might have led astray a man of colderblood and more mature political experience. The work ofMarius seemed to his admirers by no means finished. Thewretched government oppressed the land more heavily thanthe barbarians: on him, the first man of Rome, the favouriteof the people, the head of the opposition, devolved the taskof once more delivering Rome. It is true that to one who wasa rustic and a soldier the political proceedings of the capitalwere strange and iucongruous: he spoke as ill as he commandedwell, and displayed a far firmer bearing in presence of thelances and swords of the enemy than in presence of the ap­plause or hisses of the multitude; but his inclinations Wereof little moment. The hopes of which he was the object con­strained him. His military and political position was suchthat, if he would not break with his glorious past, if he wouldnot deceive the expectations of his party and in fact of thenation, if he would not be unfaithful to his own sense of duty,he must check the maladministration of public affairs and putan end to the government of the restoration; and if h'e onlypossessed the internal qualities of a head of the people, hemight certainly dispense with those which he wanted as apopular leader. He held in his hand a formidable weapon in the newly The neworganized army. Previously to his time the fundamental militaryprinciple of the Servian constitution—by which the levy was "fg3111211-limited entirely to the burgesses possessed of property, and lon'the distinctions in equipment were regulated solely by theproperty qualification (i. 95, 316)—had necessarily been invarious respects relaxed. The minimum census of 11,000asses (£115), which bound its possessor to enter the burgess-army, had been lowered to 4000 (£41; ii. 352). The earliersix property-classes, distinguished by their respective arma­ments, had been restricted to three; for, while in accordance