OCR Output CHAP. XU.] OF THE ROWAN EMPIRE. J 79 his lieutenant, with a disdainful smile), in return for a giftwhich you no longer possess, he presents you with anancient province of the empire—he resigns to the Gothsthe sovereignty of the British island." Belisarius reject­ed with equal firmness and contempt the offer of a tri­bute; but he allowed the Gothic ambassadors to seektheir fate from the mouth of Justinian himself; and con­sented, with seeming reluctance, to a truce of threemonths, from the winter solstice to the equinox ofspring. Prudence might not safely trust either theoaths or hostages of the barbarians, but the conscioussuperiority of the Roman chief was expressed in the dis­tribution of his troops. As soon as fear or hunger com- Belisariuspelled the Goths to evacuate Alba, Porto, and Centumr many citiescellas, their place was instantly supplied; the garrisons of ltalj'of Narni, Spoleto, and Perusia, were reinforced, and theseven camps of the besiegers were gradually encompassedwith the calamities of a siege. The prayers and pilgrim­age of Datius, bishop of Milan, were not without effect;and he obtained one thousand Thracians and Isaurians,to assist the revolt of Liguria against her Arian tyrant.At the same time, John the Sanguinary,b the nephew ofVitalian, was detached with two thousand chosen horse,first to Alba on the Fucine lake, and afterward to thefrontiers of Picenum on the Hadriaticssea. "In thatprovince (said Belisarius), the Goths have deposited theirfamilies and treasures, without a guard or the suspicionof danger. Doubtless they will violate the truce; letthem feel your presence, before they hear of your mo­tions. Spare the Italians; suffer not any fortified placesto remain hostile in your rear; and faithfully reserve thespoil for an equal and common partition. It would notbe reasonable (he added, with a laugh), that whilst weare toiling to the destruction of the drones, our morefortunate brethren should rifle and enjoy the honey." * Anastasios (p. 40.) has preserved this epithet of Sangninarius, which might dohonour to a tiger.