OCR Output 146 V JS S P A S I A N, E M P E R 0 R . [b. IV. and will have farther all the armies in the east to supportthem, as also those in Europe, so far as they are out of thedistance and dread of Vitellius, besides such auxiliaries asthey may have in Italy itself, that is, Vespasian's brother,1and his other son [Domitian;] the one of which will bring ina great many of those young men that are of dignity, whilethe other is intrusted with the government of the city, whichoffice of his will be no small means of Vespasian's obtainingthe government. Upon the whole, the case may be such thatif we ourselves make farther delays, the senate may choosean emperor whom the soldiers, who are the saviors of theempire, will have in contempt." 4. These were the discourses the soldiers had in theirseveral companies; after which they got together in a greatbody, and encouraging one another, they declared Vespasianemperor,2 and exhorted him to save the government whichwas now in danger. Now Vespasian's concern had been fora considerable time about the public; yet did not he intendto set up for governor himself, though his actions showed himto deserve it, while he preferred that safety, which is in aprivate life, before the dangers in a state of such dignity:but when he refused the empire, the commanders insisted themore earnestly upon his acceptance, and the soldiers cameabout him with their drawn swords in their hands, andthreatened to kill him, unless he would now live according tohis dignity. And when he had shown his reluctance a greatwhile, and had endeavored to thrust away this dominionfrom him, he at length, being not able to persuade them,yielded to their solicitations that would salute him emperor. 'This brother of Vespasian was Flnvius Sabinus, as Suetonius informs us,in Vitell. sect. 15, and in Vespas. sect. 2. He is also named by Josephuspresently, chap. xi. sect. 4. * It is plain by the nature of the thing, as well as by Josephus andEutropius, that Vespasian was first of all saluted emperor in Judea, and nottill some time afterward in Egypt. Whence Tacitus's and Suctonius'spresent copies must be correctod, when they both say that he was first pro­claimed in Egypt, and that on the kalends of July, while they still say itwas the fifth of the nones or ides of the same July, before he was proclaimedin Judea. I suppose the month they there intended was June, and notJuly, as the copies now have it; nor does Tacitus's coherence imply less.See Essny on the Revelation, p. 130.