OCR Output 7(5 ROMAN EMPIRE. V.TH» V." In the rest of the Roman empire, the des-E°"s_'°Bpotism of the prince might eradicate or silence the sectaries of an obnoxious creed. But thestubborn temper of the Egyptians maintained their op>position to the synod of Chalcedon, and the policy ofJustinian condescended to expect and to seize the op­portunity of discord. The Monophysite church of Alex-andriaf was torn by the disputes of the corruptibles andincorruptibles; and on the death of the patriarch, theThe atri . two ^actions upheld their respective candidates.'aiehTheo- Gaian was the disciple of Julian, TheodosiusA. D.' had been the pupil of Severus: the claims of thessr— see. former were supported by the consent of themonks and senators of the city and the province; thelatter depended on the priority of his ordination, thefavour of the empress Theodora, and the arms of theeunuch Narses, which might have been used in morehonourable warfare. The exile of the popular candi­date to Carthage and Sardinia inflamed the ferment ofAlexandria; and, after a schism of one hundred andseventy years, the Gaianites still revered the memoryand doctrine of their founder. The strength of numbersand of discipline was tried in a desperate and bloodyconflict; the streets were filled with the dead bodies ofcitizens and soldiers; the pious women ascending theroofs of the houses, showered down every sharp or pon­derous utensil on the heads of the enemy; and the finalvictory of Narses was owing to the flames with whichhe wasted the third capital of the Roman world. Butthe lieutenant of Justinian had not conquered in thecause of a heretic; Theodosius himself was speedily,though gently removed; and Paul of Tanis, an or­thodox monk, was raised to the throne of Athanasius. nicr, (torn. 1. p. 28 — 37.510 — 518.) that rambling jewellar, tpho bad read nothing.but had seen so much and so well. 'The history of the Alexandrian patriarchs, from Dioscorus to Benjamin, is takenfrom Renaudot, (p. Ill — 164.) and the second tome of the Annals of Kutyrhins. * Liberal. Brev. c. 20—23. Victor. Cbron. p. 329, 330. Procop. Anecdot , c.26, 27.