OCR Output an. 1492.] 139 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them for what mischief they did them whenthey were in the wilderness; and that whenthey had got possession of the land of theCanaanites, and when they had destroyed thewhole multitude of its inhabitants, as theyought to do, they should erect an altar thatshould face the rising sun, not far from thecity Shechem; between the two mountains,that of Gerizim, situate on the right hand,and that called Ebal, on the left;* and thatthe army should be divided, that six tribesshould stand upon each of the two mountains,and with them the Levites and the priests.And that first, those that were upon mountGerizim should pray for the best blessingsupon those who were diligent about the wor­ship of God, and the observance of his laws,and who did not reject what Moses had saidto them, while the other wished them allmanner of happiness also. And when theselast put up the like prayers, the formerpraised them. After this, curses were de­nounced upon those who should transgressthose laws; they answering one another alter­nately by way of confirmation of what hadbeen said. Moses also wrote their blessingsand their curses; that they may learn themso thoroughly, that they might never be for­gotten by length of time. And when he wasready to die, he wrote these blessings andcurses upon the altar on each side of it;where he says also the people stood, and thensacrificed, and offered burnt offerings, thoughafter that day they never offered upon it anyother sacrifice, for it was not lawful so to do.These are the constitutions of Moses, and theHebrew nation still live according to them. On the next day Moses called the peopletogether, with the women and children, to acongregation; so as the very slaves were pre­sent also, that they might engage themselvesto the observance of these laws by oath; andthat duly considering the meaning of God inthem, they might not, either for favour of theirkindred, or out of fear of any one, or indeedfor any motive whatsoever, think any thingought to be preferred to these laws, and so * Deut. xxvii. 12. t Dr. Bernard well observes here, how unfortunate thisneglect of consulting the Urim was to Joshua himself, inthe case of the Gibeonites; who put a trick npon him,and ensnared him, together with the rest of the Jewishrulers with a solemn oath to preserve them; contrary to voL. I.—NOS. 11 & 12. might transgress them; that in case any oneof their own blood, or any city, should at­tempt to confound or dissolve their constitu­tion of government, they should take ven­geance upon them both, all in general, andeach person in particular; and when theyhad conquered them, should overturn theircity to the very foundations, and, if possible,should not leave the least vestige of suchmadness; but if they were not able to takesuch vengeance, they should still demonstratethat what was done was contrary to theirwills. So the multitude bound themselves byoath so to do. Moses taught them also by what means theirsacrifices might be most acceptable to God;and how they should go forth to war, makinguse off the stones in the high-priest's breast­plate for their direction, as I have before sig­nified. Joshua also prophesiedJ while Moseswas present. And when Moses had recapitu­lated whatsoever he had done for the preser­vation of the people, both in their wars andin peace; and had composed them a body oflaws, and procured them an excellent form ofgovernment, he foretold, as God had declaredto him, that if they transgressed that institu­tion for the worship of God, they should ex­perience the following miseries: their landshould be full of weapons of war from theirenemies, their cities should be overthrown,and their temple should be burnt; that theyshould be sold for slaves to such men aswould have no pity on them in their afflic­tions; and that they would repent, when thatrepentance would no way profit them undertheir sufferings. "Yet," said he, "will thatGod who founded your nation, restore yourcities to your citizens, with their temple also,and you shall lose these advantages not onceonly, but often." Now when Moses had encouraged Joshuato lead out the army against the Canaanites,by telling him that God would assist him inall his undertakings, and had blessed thewhole multitude, he said, "Since T am goingto my forefathers, and God has determined his commission to extirpate all the Canaanites; which oathyet he and the other rulers never durst break And thissnare they were brought into because they did not askcounsel at the moutb of the Lord. Josh. ix. 14.I Deut . xxxiv 9 LI