OCR Output 148 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. selves, they betook themselves to the interpretation of the laws.Now when the law was transcribed, and the labour of interpre­tation was over, which came to its conclusion in seventy-twodays, Demetrius gathered all the Jews together to the placewhere the laws were translated, and where the interpreters were,and read them over. The multitude did also approve of thoseelders that were the interpreters of the law. They withalcommended Demetrius for his proposal, as the inventor ofwhat was greatly for their happiness; and they desired that hewould give leave to their rulers also to read the law. More­over, they all, both the priest and the ancientest of the elders,and the principal men of their commonwealth, made it theirrequest, that since the interpretation was happily finished, itmight continue in the state it now was, and might not be altered.And when they all commended that determination of theirs,they enjoined, that if any one observed either any thing super­fluous, or any thing omitted, that he would take a view of itagain, and have it laid before them, and corrected; which wasa wise account of theirs, that when the thing was judged to havebeen well done, it might continue for ever. 13. So the king rejoiced, when he saw that his design of thisnature was brought to perfection to so great advantage: and hewas chiefly delighted with hearing the laws read to him, andwas astonished at the deep meaning and wisdom of the legislator.And he began to discourse with Demetrius, "How it came"to pass, that when this legislation was so wonderful, no one,"either of the poets or of the historians, had made mention of"it." Demetrius made answer, that "no one durst be so bold"as to touch upon the description of these laws, because they"were divine and venerable, and because some that had attempt-"ed it were afflicted by God." He also told him, that " Theo-"pompouse was desirous of writing somewhat about them, but"was thereupon disturbed in his mind for above thirty days'"time; and upon some intermission of his distemper, he appeas-"ed God [by prayer] as suspecting that his madness proceed-"ed from that cause." Nay, indeed, hefurthersawinadream, thathis distemper befell him while he indulged too great a curiosityabout divine matters, and was desirous of publishing them amongcommon men; but when he left off that attempt, he recoveredhis understanding again. Moreover, he informed him ofTheodectes, the tragic poet, concerning whom it was reported, compared with the like practice of Peter the apostle, in the recognitions ofClement, B. IV. chap. iii. and B. V. chap, xxxvi. and with the places of theProseuthaj, or of prayer, which were sometimes built near the sea or riversalso. Of which matter, see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. x. sect. 23. Vol. II. and Acts xvi.13, 16.