OCR Output 296 ROMAN EMPIRE. was practised of old by the Arabs, is solemnly enjoinedby the Koran; and a permission is formally granted tosupply with sand the scarcity of water. The words andattitudes of supplication, as it is performed either sitting,or standing, or prostrate on the ground, are prescribedby custom or authority, but the prayer is poured forth inshort and fervent ejaculations; the measure of zeal isnot exhausted by a tedious liturgy; and each Mussul­man, for his own person, is invested with the characterof a priest. Amongst the theists, who reject the use ofimages, it has been found necessary to restrain the wan­derings of the fancy, by directing the eye and thethought towards a kebla, or visible point of the horizon.The prophet was at first inclined to gratify the Jews bythe choice of Jerusalem; but he soon returned to a morenatural partiality; and five times every day the eyes ofthe nations at Astracan, at Fez, at Delhi, are devoutlyturned to the holy temple of Mecca. Yet every spot forthe service of God is equally pure; the Mahometans in­differently pray in their chamber or in the street. As adistinction from the Jews and Christians, the Friday ineach week is set apart for the useful institution of publicworship: the people are assembled in the mosch; andthe iman, some respectable elder, ascends the pulpit, tobegin the prayer and pronounce the sermon. But theMahometan religion is destitute of priesthood or sacrifice;and the independent spirit of fanaticism looks down withcontempt on the ministers and the slaves of superstition.II. The voluntary1* penance of the ascetics, the tormentand glory of their lives, was odious to a prophet whocensured in his companions a rash vow of abstainingfrom flesh, and women, and sleep; and firmly declaredthat he would suffer no monks in his religion.1 Yet he * Mahomet (Sale's Koran, c. 9. p. 153.) reproaches the Christiana with takingtheir priests and monks for their lords, besides God. Yet Maracci (Prodromus,part 3. p. 69, 70.) excuses the worship, especially of the pope, and quotes, from theKoran itself, the case of Eblis, or Satan, who was cast from heaven for refusing toadore Adarn. 1 Koran, c. 5. p. 94. and Sale's note, which refers to the authority of Jallaloddin