OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 173 battles were fought, at times and places unfavorable,and increasing confidence rendered the enemy dailymore formidable ; so that matters came nearly to sucha state, as that neither could the soldiers rely much ontheir leader, nor the leader on his soldiers. It ap?-pears in three several histories that a letter was sentby the consul to call his colleague from Samnium.But I will not affirm what requires stronger proofs,that point having been disputed between these twoconsuls, a second time associated in the same office,Appius denying that he sent any such, and Volumniusaffirming that he was called thither by a letter fromhim. Volumnius had by this time taken three fortsin Samnium, in which three thousand of the enemyhad been slain, and about half that number made pri­soners; and a sedition having been raised among theLucanians by the plebeians, and the more indigent ofthe people, be had, to the great satisfaction of thenobles, quelled it by sending thither Quintus Fabius,proconsul, with his own veteran army. He left toDecius the ravaging of the country, and proceededwith his troops into Etruria to his colleague, whereon his arrival the army in general received him withjoy. Appius, if he did not write the letter, being con­scious of this, had, in my opinion, just ground of dis­pleasure : but if he had actually sent for assistance,his disowning it, as he did, arose from an illiberal andungrateful mind : for on going out to receive him,when they had scarcely exchanged salutations, hesaid, ' Is all well, Lucius Volumnius? How standaffairs in Samnium ? What motive induced you to re­move out of your province?' Volumnius answered, that' affairs in Samnium were in a prosperous state; andthat he had come thither in compliance with the re­quest in his letter. Cut if that were a forged letter,and that there was no occasion for him in Etruria, hewould instantly face about and depart.' ' You maydepart,' replied the other; ' no one detains you: forit is a perfect inconsistency, that when, perhaps, youare scarcely equal to the management of the war al­