OCR Output 386 THE DECLINE AND FAIX CHAP.XXI. Battle ofHadriano-ple, A.D. 378,Aug. 9th. rors, of an Imperial army. About the same time,Count Richomer returned from the West, to announcethe defeat and submission of the Alemanni, to informValens, that his nephew advanced by rapid marchesat the head of the veteran and victorious legions ofGaul; and to request, in the name of Gratian andof the republic, that every dangerous and decisivemeasure might be suspended, till the junction of thetwo emperors should ensure the success of the Gothicwar. But the feeble sovereign of the East wasactuated only by the fatal illusions of pride and jea­lousy. He disdained the importunate advice; herejected the humiliating aid; he secretly comparedthe ignominious, or at least the inglorious, period ofhis own reign, with the fame of a beardless youth;and Valens rushed into the field, to erect his ima­ginary trophy, before the diligence of his colleaguecould usurp any share of the triumphs of the day. On the ninth of August, a day which has deservedto be marked among the most inauspicious of theRoman Calendar *, the emperor Valens, leaving,under a strong guard, his baggage and military trea­sure, marched from Hadrianople to attack the Goths,who were encamped about twelve miles from thecity t. By some mistake of the orders, or some ig­norance of the ground, the right wing, or column ofcavalry, arrived in sight of the enemy, whilst the leftwas still at a considerable distance; the soldiers werecompelled, in the sultry heat of summer, to precipi­tate their pace; and the line of battle was formedwith tedious confusion, and irregular delay. The * Ammianus (xxxi. 12, 13,) almost alone describes the councils and actionswhich were terminated by the fatal battle of Hadrianople. We might censurethe vices of his style, the disorder and perplexity of his narrative: but we mustnow take leave of this impartial historian; and reproach is silenced by our regretfor such an irreparable loss. t The difference of the eight miles of Ammianus, and the twelve of Idatius,can only embarrass those critics (Valesius ad loc.) who suppose a great army tobe a mathematical point, without space or dimensions.