OCR Output DISCOURSE III. lxil comment, Xenophon will give it in his Polity of the Athe­nians.—»"Tn one point (says he) the Athenians are deficient." ¥iif, beside their being sovereigns of the sea, they were" seated on an island, it would be ever in their power to ra-" vage others at pleasure, and yet they could not be ravaged" themselves so long as they held the mastery at sea; their" lands could never be laid waste, no enemy could post" themselves upon them. But now the occupiers of lands" and the wealthy Athenians fly before invaders ; whilst the4 people in general, conscious they have nothing to be burnt" and nothing to be plundered, live exempt from fear nor" fly before an invader. The expedient used on such occa-" sions is, that the former deposit their most valuable ef-" fects in the isles, and trusting to their superiority at sea," slight all the devastations an enemy can make in Attica."England is complete where Athens was deficient. And howfond must both Pericles and Xenophon have been of theisland and maritime power of Great Britain ? I will not pre­tend to anticipate the reader's pleasure by descending intomore particularities. It may suffice to add, that the finalanswer of the Athenians is drawn up by the advice of Pe­ricles, that " they will do nothing by command; they had" already offered to refer all disputes to a fair judicial deci-" sion; so far only, but no farther, compliance must be ex- " pected from Athens." Here all negociation comes to an end; and the war will very soon commence. Thus I have endeavoured to give some idea of the firstbook of Thucydides. It is a grand piece of work beyond alldenial. But Rapin thinks our author hath overdone it " out" of a desire of prefixing a too stately portal to his his-" tory." Could the portal have been thought too stately, ifthe whole fabric had been compleatly finished ? To form aright judgment here, we should examine the Resign and notthe execution: The latter is imperfect, is broke off. So,look at it from the park, the Banqueting-house at Whitehallk too big and towering for what stands near it. But hath