OCR Output 460 [Book IV. LITERATURE AND ART. 100. 178, 177S.itura. Lucilius.148-103. as the " Istrian War " of Hostius and the " Annals (perhaps)of the Gallic War " by Aulus Furius (about 650), which to allappearance took up the narrative at the very point whereEnnius had broken off—the description of the Istrian warof 576 and 577. In didactic and elegiac poetry no promi­nent name appears. The only successes, which the recita­tive poetry of this period has to show, belong to the domainof what was called Saturn—a species of art, which like theletter or the pamphlet allowed any form and admitted anysort of contents, and accordingly in default of all propergeneric characters drew its individual shape wholly from theindividuality of each poet, and occupied a position not merelyon the boundary between poetry .and prose, but even morethan half beyond the bounds of literature proper. Thehumorous poetical epistles, which one of the younger menof the Scipionic circle, Spurius Mummius, the brother of thedestroyer of Corinth, sent home from the camp of Corinthto his friends, were still read with pleasure a century after­wards; and numerous poetical pleasantries of that sort notdestined for publication probably proceeded at that timefrom the rich social and intellectual life of the better circlesof Rome. Its representative in literature is Gaius Lucilius (606-651)sprung of a respectable family in the Latin colony of Suessa,and likewise a member of the Scipionic circle. His poemsare, as it were, open letters to the public. Their contents, asa gifted successor gracefully says, embrace the whole life ofa cultivated man of independence, who looks upon theevents passing on the political stage from the pit and occa­sionally from the side-scenes; who converses with the bestof his epoch as his equals; who prosecutes literature andscience with sympathy and intelligence without wishing per­sonally to pass for a poet or scholar ; and who, in fine, makeshis pocket-book the confidential receptacle for everythinggood and bad that he meets with, for his political experiencesand expectations, for grammatical remarks and criticisms onart, for the incidents of his own life, visits, dinners, journeys,as well as for the anecdotes which he has heard. Caustic,capricious, thoroughly individual, the Lucilian poetry hasyet a distinctly impressed controversial and, so far, didacticaim in literature as well as in morals and politics; there isin it something of the protest of the country against thecapital; the Suessan's sense of his own purity of speech and