OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 259 but the want could never be felt, till the middle of chap.the sixth century first revealed the guilt of a par- xxxvn-ricide*. 4. The malice of an incendiary. Afterthe previous ceremony of whipping, he himself wasdelivered to the flames; and in this example aloneour reason is tempted to approve the justice of re­taliation. 5. Judicial perjury. The corrupt andmalicious witness was thrown headlong from theTarpeian rock to expiate his falsehood, which wasrendered still more fatal by the severity of the penallaws, and the deficiency of written evidence. 6. Thecorruption of a judge, who accepted bribes, to pro­nounce an iniquitous sentence. 7. Libels and sa­tires, whose rude strains sometimes disturbed thepeace of an illiterate city. The author was beatenwith clubs, a worthy chastisement, but it is not cer­tain that he was left to expire under the blows ofthe executioner t. 8. The nocturnal mischief ofdamaging or destroying a neighbour,s corn. Thecriminal was suspended as a grateful victim to Ceres.But the sylvan deities were less implacable, and theextirpation of a more valuable tree was compensatedby the moderate fine of twenty-five pounds of copper.9. Magical incantations; which had power, in theopinion of the Latian shepherds, to exhaust thestrength of an enemy, to extinguish his life, andremove from their seats his deep-rooted plantations.The cruelty of the twelve tables against insolventdebtors still remains to be told; and I shall dare toprefer the literal sense of antiquity to the speciousrefinements of modern criticism. After the judicialproof or confession of the debt, thirty days of grace • The first parricide at Rome was L. Ostius, after the second Punic war (Plu­tarch in Uomulo, tom. i. p. 57). During the Cimbric, P. Malleolus was guiltyof the first matricide (Liv. Epitom. 1. Ixviii.). + Horace talks of the formidine fustis (1 . ii. epist. ii. 154); but Cicero (de Re-publica, 1. iv. apud Augustiru de Civitat. Dei, ix. 6. in Fragment. PhUosoph.tom. iii. p. :t!»3. edit. Olivet) affirms that the decemvirs made libels a capitaloffence: cum pcrpaucas res capite fauxistent—perpaucat! s 2