OCR Output NAXOS. NAXOS. 405 rsltble tlai, tomity to their neighbours at Messanaw i KrunjE motive in inducing them to join theAttains: mJ during the hostilities that ensued, thebacons hiving on one occasion, in B.C. 425,caknuUeo attack upon Naxos both by land and»'\ the Suians vigorously repulsed them, and inaw tors inflicted heavy loss on the assailants. (Id. Oi (cession of the great Athenian expedition toSrihfac.415), the Naxians from the first espousedurt tUiicce. even while their kindred cities ofISyiao ud Catana held aloof; and not only fur-:«W tbatn with supplies, but received them freelyHi tto city (Diod. xiii. 4; Thuc. vi. 50). Hencei m iLXkxoi that the Athenian fleet first toucheditocrating the straits; and at a later period the'its ud Catanaeans are enumerated by Thu-«Ua h the only Greek cities in Sicily whichsad wiu, the Athenians- (Thuc. vii. 57.) After(■» Un of this expedition the Chakidic cities*n htarally involved for a time in hostilities withfarat; bat these were suspended in B.C. 409, bydiffer which seemed to threaten all the Greek««• life from the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 56.)TW pottioa on this occasion preserved the Naxiansfci uW 6tt« which befell Agrigentum, Gela, and'«raa; bat they did not long enjoy this immu-*»• In a.c 403, Dionysins of Syracuse, deemingwrare from the power of Carthage as well■ fr« domestic sedition, determined to turn his*»oirst theChalcidic cities of Sicily; and havingSki iasarif master of Naxos by the treachery of^*p«sn,l Procks, he sold all the inhabitants as-<y-\ bith the walls and buildings of*fifc,»kue be bestowed its territory upon the*r**ottriog Sieuli. (Diod. xiv. 14, 15, 66, 68.)I h a certain that Naxos never recovered this blow,r aain to be a place of any consideration:■J* » ast easy to trace precisely the events which■■■■1 It appears", however, that the Siculi, to oW Xirian territnrr wm ftsMtmed. snnn aftpr assigned, soon after_ on the hill called MountW*»»tadi rises immediately above the site ofthat this gradually grew up into a con-m, which assumed the name of Tauro-(Dwd. xiv. 58, 59.) This took place aboutt^-M^i ud we find the Siculi still in possessionsome rears later. (76. 88.) Mean-'ie txikd and fugitive inhabitants of NaxosCrte anted, as usual in such cases, a con-■■a4Wy, who as far as possible kept together.■ rmp «u made in B. c. 394 by the Rhcgians,kr-« torn again in a body at Mylae, but without: l.r Ibry were speedily expelled by the Mes-• aad from this lime appear to have been. various parts of Sicily. (Diod. xiv. 87.)P*Va, ate 358. Andromacbos, the father ofwako Tiroaeus, is said to have collectedapua the Naxian exiles from all parts ofP«.t,uJ otabliahed them on the hill of Tau- vines thai rose to be a Greek city, andu* fttooasor of the ancient Naxos. (Diod.*") Heart Pliny speaks of Taurumenium asJ"l formerly railed Naxos, an expressionP* » au» strictly correct. (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.)p brtaaai of the sew city, which quickly ruseP*" ' P** of importance, are related in theTuaoMCnrn, The site of Naxos itselfP''a»«« never again inhabited; but the^saitariat si Apollo Arcbegetes continued to~" • :•' '-.r..: had stood, :wl are mentioned in the war between Octavian and Sextus Pompey inSicily, B. c. 36. (Appian, B. C. V. 109.) There are no remains of the ancient city nowextant, but the site is clearly marked. It occupieda low but rocky headland, now called the Capo diSchito, formed by an ancient stream of lava, im­mediately to the N. of the Alcantara, one of tliemost considerable streams in this part of Sicily. Asmall bay to the N. affords good anchorage, andseparates it from the foot of the bold and lofty hill,still occupied by the town of Taormina; but thesituation was not one which enjoyed any peculiarnatural advantages. The coins of Naxos, which are of fine workman­ship, may almost all be referred to the period fromB.C. 460 to B.C. 403, which was probably themost flourishing in the history of the city. [E. H. B.J COIN OF NAXOS IS 8ICILT. NAXOS or NAXTJS(Nd|oj, Suid. «. t\), a town ofCrete, according to the Scholiast (ad Find. hth. vi.107) celebrated for its whetstones. Hock (Kreta,vol. i. p. 417) considers the existence of this city veryproblematical. The islands Crete and Naxos werefamed for their whetstones (Plin. xxxvi. 22; comp.xviii. 28), and hence the confusion. In Mr. PasMcy'smap the site of Naxos is marked near SpinaLdnga. [E B. J.] NAXOS or NAXUS(Ni{oi: EtK Ndf.os: Nazta),the largest and most fertile of theCyclades, situated inthe middle of the Aegean sea, about halfway betweenthe coasts of Greece and those of Asia Minor. Itlies east of Paros, from which it is separated by achannel about 6 miles wide. It is described by Pliny(iv. 12. s. 22) as 75 Roman miles in circumference.It is about 19 miles in length, and 15 in breadth inits widest part. It bore several other names in an­cient times. It was called Strongyle (2Tpo77i''A7j)from its round shape, Dionysias (Aiopu<rlur) fromits excellent wine and its consequent connection withthe worship of Dionysus, and the Smaller Sicily(fwepit Sia-cAla) from the fertility of its soil (Fun.iv. 12. s. 22: Diod. t. 50—52); but the poets fre­quently give it the name of Dia (Aia; comp. Ov.Met. ii. 690, viii. 174.) It is said to have beenoriginally inhabited by Thracians, and then by Ca-rians, and to have derived its name from Naxos. theCarian chieftain. (Diod. v. 50, 51; Steph. B. I. v.Ndfoi.) In the historical ages it was colonised byIonians from Attica (Herod, viii. 46), and in con­sequence of its position, size, and fertility, it becamethe most powerful of the Cyclades. The govern­ment of Naxos was orignally an oligarchy, but wasoverthrown by Lygdamis, who made himself tyrantof the island. (Aristot. ap. Ath. viii. p. 348.)Lygdamis, however, appears not to have retained hispower long, for we find him assisting l'eisistratus inhis thin! restoration to Athens, and the latter in re­turn subduing Naxos and committing the tyrannyto Lygdamis. (Herod, i. 61,64; comp. Aristot.Pol v. 5.) But new revolutions followed. Tha D d 3