OCR Output 152 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. of Justinian and his lieutenant: but a spirit of discordand disaffection prevailed in Italy, and the Goths sup­ported, with reluctance, the indignity of a female reign.*Govern- The birth of Amalasontha, the regent and queen ofdMth"f Italy,' united the two most illustrious families of the bar-Amaiason- barians. Her mother, the sister of Clovis, was descended tha, queen 7' of Italy, from the lone;-haired kings of the Merovingian race ;8 A. D. 522 -534. and the regal succession of the Amali was illustrated inthe eleventh generation, by her father, the great Theo-doric, whose merit might have ennobled a plebeian origin.The sex of his daughter excluded her from the Gothicthrone; but his vigilant tenderness for his family andhis people discovered the last heir of the royal line,whose ancestors had taken refuge in Spain; and thefortunate Eutharic was suddenly exalted to the rank ofa consul and a prince. He enjoyed only a short timethe charms of Amalasontha, and the hopes of the suc­cession; and his widow, after the death of her husbandand father, was left the guardian of her son Athalaric,and the kingdom of Italy. At the age of about twenty-eight years, the endowments of her mind and personhad attained their perfect maturity. Her beauty, which,in the apprehension of Theodora herself, might havedisputed the conquest of an emperor, was animated bymanly sense, activity, and resolution. Education andexperience had cultivated her talents; her philosophicstudies were exempt from vanity; and, though she ex­pressed herself with equal elegance and ease in the Greek,the Latin, and the Gothic tongue, the daughter of The-odoric maintained in her counsels a discreet and im­penetrable silence. By a faithful imitation of the vir- • Compare the different passages of Procopius. (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 5. Gothic. lib. 1.c. 3.) f For the reign and character of Amalasontha, see Procopius (Gothic. lib. 1. c 8—4. and Anecdot. c. 16. with the notes of Alemannns); Cassiodorus, Var. 8—11'1.) and Jornandes. (de Rebus Geticis, c. 59. and De Successione Regnorum, in Mu-ratori.tom. 1. p. 241.) s The marriage of Theodoric with Audefleda, the sister of Clovis, may be placedin the year 495, soon after the conquest of Italy, (de Buat, Hist, des Peoples, tom.9. p. 213.) The nuptials of Eutharic aud Amalasoutha were celebrated in 513. (Cas-siudor. in Chron. p. 453.)