OCR Output 486 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. firesent, but to expect a much greater warrom Egypt. For that Cleopatra would notoverlook an army raised by Ptolemy for him­self, out of the neighbourhood; but wouldcome against them with a great army oftheir own: and this because she was labour­ing to eject her son out of Cyprus also; thatas for Ptolemy, if he failed of his hopes, hecould still retire to Cyprus: but that theywould be left in the greatest danger possible.Now Ptolemy, although he had heard of thechange that was made in the people of Pto-lemais, yet did he still go on with his voyage,and came to the country called Sycamine,and there set his army on shore. This army,including horse and foot, consisted of aboutthirty thousand men, with which he marchednear to Ptolemais, and there pitched hiscamp. But when the people of Ptolemaisneither received his ambassadors, nor wouldhear what they had to say, he was undergreat concern. But when Zoilus, and the people of Gaza,came to him, and desired his assistance, be­cause their country was laid waste by theJews, and by Alexander; Alexander raisedthe siege, for fear of Ptolemy. And when hehad drawn off his army into his own country,he used a stratagem afterwards, by privatelyinviting Cleopatra to come against Ptolemy;but publicly pretending to desire a league offriendship and mutual assistance with him.And promising to give him four hundredtalents of silver, he desired that, by way ofrequital, he would take off Zoilus the tyrant,and give his country to the Jews. HereuponPtolemy made such a league of friendshipwith Alexander, and subdued Zoilus." Butwhen he afterward heard, that he had privilysent to Cleopatra his mother, he brake theleague with him, which yet he had confirmedwith an oath; and fell upon him, and besieg­ed Ptolemais; because it would not receivehim. However, leaving his generals witheome part of his forces to go on with theeiege, ne went himself immediately with therest to ravage Judea. And when Alexanderunderstood this to be Ptolemy's intention, he also got together about fifty thousand sol­diers, out 01 his own country; nay, *as somewriters have said, eighty thousand. He thentook his army, and went to meet Ptolemy.But Ptolemy fell upon Asochis, a city ofGalilee, and took it by force on the sabbathday: and there he took about ten thousandslaves, and a great deal of other prey. He then attempted to take Sepphoris, acity not far from that which was destroyed;but lost many of his men. Yet did he thengo to fight with Alexander; who met him atthe river Jordan, near a certain place calledSaphoth; and pitched his camp near to theenemy. He had however eight thousand inthe first rank, whom he styled fhecatontoma-chi, having shields of brass. But Ptolemy'ssoldiers in other respects were inferior tothose of Alexander; and thereupon were themore fearful of running hazards. But Phi-lostephanus, the camp-master, put greatcourage into them; and ordered them topass the river, which was between theircamps. Nor did Alexander think fit to hin­der their passage over it: for he thought,that if the enemy had once gotten the riveron their back, that he should the easier takethem prisoners, when they could not flee outof the battle. When the engagement began,the acts on both sides were alike: and agreat slaughter was made by both the ar­mies. But Alexander was superior; tillPhilostephanus opportunely brought up theauxiliaries, to help those that were givingway. But as there were no auxiliaries toafford help to that part of the Jews that gaveway, it fell out that they fled; and those nearthem did not assist them: but fled alongwith them. However, Ptolemy's soldiersacted quite otherwise. For they followedthe Jews, and killed them; till at lengththose that slew them pursued after them,when they had made them all run away; andslew them so long, that their weapons ofiron were blunted, and their hands quitetired with the slaughter. For the reportwas, that thirty thousand men were thenslain; Timagenes says they were fifty thou~ * From this and other occasional expressions, droppedby Josephus, we may learn that where the sacred books«f the Jews were deficient, he had several other historiesthen extant, but now most of them lost, which he faith­fully followed in his own history. Nor indeed have we any other records of those times, relating to Judea, thatcan be compared to these accounts of Josephus: thoughwhen we do meet with authentic fragments of such ori­ginal records, they almost always confirm his history,t Each able of himself to fight a hundred men