OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 85 mised, as subjects in peace, and as soldiers in war, the chap.most inviolable fidelity to the empire which should x'graciously receive them into its bosom. . Accordingto the maxims adopted by Probus and his successors,the offers of this Barbarian colony were eagerly ac足cepted; and a competent portion of lands in theprovinces of Pannonia, Thrace, Macedonia, and Italy,were immediately assigned for the habitation andsubsistence of three hundred thousand Sarmatians *. By chastising the pride of the Goths, and by ac- peatiyndcepting the homage of a suppliant nation, Constantine Constantine, asserted the majesty of the Roman empire; and jj?'Jf5'the ambassadors of ^Ethiopia, Persia, and the mostremote countries of India, congratulated the peaceand prosperity of his government. If he reckoned,among the favours of fortune, the death of his eldestson, of his nephew, and perhaps of his wife, he en足joyed an uninterrupted flow of private as well aspublic felicity, till the thirtieth year of his reign; aperiod which none of his predecessors, since Au足gustus, had been permitted to celebrate. Constantinesurvived that solemn festival about ten months; and,at the mature age of sixty-four, after a short illness,he ended his memorable life at the palace of Aquyrion, a. d. 337,in the suburbs of Nicomedia, whither he had retired May 22"for the benefit of the air, and with the hope of re足cruiting his exhausted strength by the use of thewarm baths. The excessive demonstrations of grief,or at least of mourning, surpassed whatever had beenpractised on any former occasion. Notwithstanding * The Gothic and Sannatian wars are related in so broken and imperfect amanner, that I have been obliged to compare the following writers, who mutuallysupply, correct, and illustrate each other. Those who will take the same trou-. ble may acquire a right of criticising my narrative. Ammianus, L xvii. c. 12.Anonym. Valesian. p. 715. Eutropius, x. 7. Sextus Rufus de Provinces, c26. Julian. Orat. i. p. 9. and Spanheim Comment. p. 94. Hieronym. in Chron.Euseb. in Vit. Constantin. l . iv. c 6. Socrates, 1. i. c. 18. Sozomen, 1. i. c. 8.Zosimus, 1. it p. 108. Jornandes de Reb. Geticis, c. 22. Isadoras in Chron.p. 709; in Hist. Gothorum Grotii. Constantin. Porphyrogenitus de Admini-sttat. Imperii. c. 53. p. 208. edit. Meursii. G 3