OCR Output LATIUM. LATIUM. 139 Rome which led to the abolition of the kingly power,or from some other cause, we know not. The Latincities became wholly independent of Borne; andthough the war which was marked by the greatbattle at the lake Regillua has been dressed up inthe legendary history with so much of fiction as torender it difficult to attach any historical value to thetraditions connected with it, there is no reason to doubtthe fact that the Latins had at this time shaken offtbe supremacy of Rome, and that a war between thetwo powers was the result. Not long after this, inb. c. 493, a treaty was concluded with them by>p. Cassias, which determined their relations withHome for a long period of time. (Liv. ii. S3; Dio-njs. ri. 96; Cic. pro Balh. 23.) By the treaty thus concluded the Romans andLatins entered into an alliance as equal and inde­pendent states, both for offence and defence: allbooty or conquered territory was to be shared be­tween them; and there is much reason to believethat the supreme command of the allied armies wasto be held in alternate years by the Roman andLatin generals, (Dionys. L c; Nieb. vol. ii. p. 40.)Tbe Latin cities, which at this time composed theleague or confederacy, were thirty in number: a listof th»m is given by Dionysius in another passage(v. 61). but which, in all probability, was derivedfrom the treaty in question (Niebubr, vol. ii. p. 23).They were:—Ardea, Alicia, Bovillae, Bubentum,Cimicnlum, Carventum, Circeii, Corioli, Corbio,Cora. Fortinei (?), Gabii, Laurentuin, Laviniam,Lanavium, Labicurn, Nomentum, Norba, Praeneste,Pedum, Querouetulam, Satricum, Scaptia, Setia,TVlltnse, Tibur, Tusculum, Toleria, Tricrinum (?),Velitiae. The number thirty appears to have beena recognised and established one, not dependent uponaccidental changes and fluctuations: the cities whichcomposed the old league under tbe supremacy of Albaare also represented as thirty in number (Dionys.in. 34), and the "populi Albenses," which formedthe smaller and closer union nnder the same head,were, according to Pliny's list, jnst thirty. It istherefore quite in accordance with the usages ofancient nations that tbe league when formed anew*bould consist as before of thirty cities, thoughthese could not have been the tame as previouslycomposed it. The object cf this alliance between Rome andLaiirnn was u> doubt to oppose a barrier to therawdly advancing power of the Aequians and Vol-■cun*. With the same view the Hernicans weres"oo after admitted to participate in it (b. c. 486);asl from this time for more than a century theLatins continued to be the faithful allies of Rome,avl abared alike in her victories and reverses duringher lnnj and arduous struggle with their warliken^chbonr*. (Liv. ri. 2.) A shock was given totbe?* ftiendly relations by the Gaulish War and thecapture of Rome in B. c. 390: the calamity whichtien befel the city appears to have incited some ofber nearest neighbours and most faithful allies totake op arms against her. (Varr. L. L. vi. 18;Liv. vi. 2.) The Latins and Hernicans are repre­sented as not only refusing their contingent to theRutim armies, but supporting and assisting theVrjbrians against them; and though they stilla* id*-d as long as possible an open breach withEome, it ;eems evident that the former close alliancel»tw.»n them was virtually at an end. (Liv. vi. 6,7,10,11, 17.) But it would appear that the bond«f onion of tbe Latin League itself was, by this time, very much weakened. The more powerful citiesare found acting with a degree of independence towhich there is no parallel in earlier times: thus, inB. c. 383, the Lanuvians formed an alliance withthe Volscians, and Praeneste declared itself hostileto Rome, while Tusculum, Gabii, aud Labicurn con­tinued on friendly terms with the republic. (Id.vi. 21.) In b. c. 380 the Romans were at open warwith the Praenestines, and in b. c. 360 with theTiburtines, but in neither instance do the other citiesof Lutium appear to have joined in the war. (hi.vi. 27—29, vii. 10—12, 18, 19.) The repeatedinvasions of the Gauls, whose armies traversed theLatin territory year after year, tended to increasethe confusion and disorder: nevertheless the LatinLeague, though much disorganised, was neverbroken up; and the cities composing it still con­tinued to hold their meetings at the Lucus Feren-"tinae, to deliberate on their common interests andpolicy. (Id. vii. 25.) In it. c. 358 the leaguowith Rome appears to have been renewed upon thesame terms as before; and in that year the Latins,for the first time after a long interval, sent theircontingent to the Roman armies. (Liv. vii. 12.) At length, in b. c. 340, the Latins, who hadadhered faithfully to their alliance during the FirstSamnite War, appear to have been roused to asense of the increasing power of Rome, and becameconscious that, under the shadow of an equal alliance,they were gradually passing into a state of depen­dence and servitude. (Id. viii. 4.) Hence, aftera vain appeal to Rome for the establishment of a.more equitable arrangement, the Latins, as well asthe Volscians, took part with the Campanians in thewar of that year, and shared in their memorabledefeat at the foot of Mount Vesuvius. Even onthis occasion, however, the councils of the Latinswere divided: the Laurcntcs at least, and probablythe Lavinians also, remained faithful to the Romancause, while Signia, Setia, Circeii, and Velitrae,though regarded as Roman colonies, were among themost prominent in the war. (Id. viii. 3—11.) Thecontest was renewed the next year with various suc­cess; but in n. c. 338 Furins Camillas defeatedthe forces of the Latins in a great battle at Pedum,while the other consul, C. Maenius, obtained a notless decisive victory on the river Astura. Thestruggle was now at an end; the Latin cities sub­mitted one after the other, and the Roman senatepronounced separately on the fate of each. Thefirst great object of the arrangements now madowas to deprive the Latins of all bonds of national orsocial unity: for this purpose not only were theyprohibited from holding general councils or assem­blies, but the several cities were deprived of themutual rights of "conuubium" and " commcrcium,"so as to isolate each little community from its neigh­bours. Tibur and Praeneste, the two most powerfulcities of the confederacy, and which had taken aprominent part in the war, were deprived of a largeportion of their territory, but continued to exist asnominally independent communities, retaining theirown laws, and the old treaties with them were re­newed, so that as late as the time of Polybius aRoman citizen might choose Tibur or Praeneste as aplace of exile. (Liv. xliii. 2; Pol. vi. 14.) Tus­culum, on the contrary, received the Roman fran­chise; as did Lanuvium, Aricia, Pedum, and No­mentum, though these last appear to have, in thefirst instance, received only the imperfect citizen­ship without the right of suffrage. Velitrae was