OCR Output 260 LIVY. to distribute the lands, doubting their safety within thewalls of Placentia, fled to Mutina. These were CaiusLutatius, Caius Servilius, and Titus Annius. Thereis no doubt about the name of Lutatius ; but some an­nals, instead of Caius Servilius and Titus Annius, haveQuintus Acilius and Caius Herennius: others, Eub-lius Cornelius Asina, and Caius Papirius Maso. Thereis also an uncertainty whether ambassadors, sent toexpostulate with the Boians, suffered violence, orwhether the ill treatment was offered to the commis­sioners who were measuring out the lands. Whilethey were shut up in Mutina, and the besiegers, a peo­ple quite unskilled in the arts of attacking towns, andremarkably lazy with respect to all military opera­tions, lay inactive round the walls, which they couldnot injure, a pretended treaty for an accommodationwas set on foot, and the ambassadors being invited outto a conference by the chiefs of the Gauls, were, inviolation not only of the laws of nations, but of thefaith pledged on the occasion, seized and put into con­finement, the Gauls declaring that they would not setthem at liberty unless their own hostages were re­turned to them. On hearing of this treatment of theambassadors, and the danger which threatened Mutinaand the garrison, Lucius Manlius, the pretor, inflamedwith resentment, led his army in a rapid march to­wards that city. The ground, on both sides of theroad, was at that time covered with woods, and. mostlyuninhabited. Advancing into these places, withouthaving examined the country, he fell into an ambush,and with much difficulty, after losing a great numberof men, made his way into the open plains. Here befortified a camp, which the Gauls not having resolu­tion to attack, the soldiers recovered their spirits,though it was evident that their strength was greatlydiminished: they then began their march anew, and,as long as their road lay through open grounds, theenemy never appeared ; but falling on their rear, whenthe Romans again entered the woods, they threw aliinto fright and confusion, slew eight hundred soldiers,