OCR Output 840 eleazar's speeches. [b. vn. venge upon the Romans, when they acted in concert with ourcountrymen. Wherefore, you see how little our good-willand fidelity to them profited us, while they were slain, theyand their whole families, after the most inhuman manner,which was all the requital that was made them for the assist­ance they had afforded the others: for that very same de­struction which they had prevented from falling upon theothers did they suffer themselves from them, as if they hadbeen ready to be the actors against them. It would be toolong for me to speak at this time of every destruction broughtupon us: for you cannot but know, that there was not anyone Syrian city which did not slay their Jewish inhabitants,and were not more bitter enemies to us than were the Romansthemselves: nay, even those of Damascus, when they wereable to allege no tolerable pretence against us, filled theircity with the most barbarous slaughters of our people, andcut the throats of eighteen thousand1 Jews with their wivesand children. And as to the multitude of those that wereslain in Egypt, and that with torments also, we have beeninformed they were more than sixty thousand: those, indeed,being in a foreign country, and so naturally meeting withnothing to oppose against their enemies, were killed in themanner forementioned. As for all those of us who havowaged war against the Romans in our own country, had wenot sufficient reason to have sure hopes of victory ? for wchad arms and walls, and fortresses so prepared as not to beeasily taken, and courage not to be moved by any dangersin the cause of liberty, which encouraged us all to revolt fromthe Romans. But, then, these advantages sufficed us but fora short time, and only raised our hopes, while they reallyappeared to be the origin of our miseries; for all wc had hathbeen taken from us, and all hath fallen under our enemies,as if these advantages were only to render their victory overus the more glorious, and were not disposed for the preserva­tion of those by whom these preparations were made. Andas for those that are already dead in the war, it is reasonablewe should esteem them blessed, for they are dead in defending Sec B. ii. ch. xx. sect. 2, where the number of the slain is but 10,000.