OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Sedition ofthe guard?,and murderof Elagabalufi A. D. 2Z2. 10th March, Accession of Alexander Severus. Pjwer or \.'»mother præfects to watch over the safety of Alexander, and the conduct ofthe emperor It was impossible that such a reconciliation should last, or thateven the mean soul of Elagabalus could hold an empire onsuch humiliating terms of dependence. He soon attempted, by adangerous experiment, to try the temper of the soldiers. The reportof the death of Alexander, and the natural suspicion that he hadbeen murdered, inflamed their passions into fury, and the tempest ofthe camp could only be appeased by the presence and authority ofthe popular youth. Provoked at this new instance of their affectionfor his cousin, and their contempt for his person, the emperorventured to punish some of the leaders of the mutiny. His unsea­sonable severity proved instantly fatal to his minions, his mother,and himself. Elagabalus was massacred by the indignant Præto­rians, his mutilated corpse dragged through the streets of the city,and thrown into the Tyber. His memory was branded witheternal infamy by the senate; the justice of whose decree has beenratified by posterity In the room of Elagabalus, his cousin Alexander was raised tothe throne by the Prætorian guards. His relation to the family ofSeverus, whose name he assumed, was the fame as that of his pre­decessor; his virtue and his danger had already endeared him tothe Romans, and the eager liberality of the senate conferred uponhim, in one day, the various titles and powers of the Imperialdignity 6j. But as Alexander was a modest and dutiful youth, ofonly seventeen years of age, the reins of government were in thehands of two women, of his mother Mamæa, and of Mæsa, hisgrandmother. After the death of the latter, who survived but ashort time the elevation of Alexander, Mamæa remained the soleregent of her son and the empire. In every age and country, the wiser, or at least the stronger ofthe two sexes, has usurped the powers of the state, and confined the other