OCR Output AN. 145.] 467 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. others, as fighting from such an elevation;they drove them out of the adjoining houses,and immediately set them on fire. Where­upon the flame spread itself over the wholecity, and burnt it all down. This happenedby reason of the closeness of the houses; andbecause they were generally built of wood.So the Antiochians, when tliey were not ableto help themselves, nor to stop the fire, wereput to flight. And as the Jews leaped fromthe top of one house, to the top of another,and pursued them after that manner; itthence happened that the pursuit was verysurprising. But when the king saw that theAntiochians were busied in saving their chil­dren and their wives, and so did not fight anylonger, he fell upon them in the narrow pas­sages, and fought them, and slew a greatmany of them; till at last they were forced tothrow down their arms, and to deliver them­selves up to Demetrius: so he forgave theirinsolent behaviour, and put an end to thesedition. And when he had given rewardsto the Jews of the rich spoils he had gotten,and had returned them thanks, as the causeof his victory, he sent them away to Jeru­salem, to Jonathan, with an ample testimonyof the assistance they had afforded him. Yetdid he prove an ill man to Jonathan after­ward, and brake the promises he had made:and he threatened he would make war uponhim. unless he would pay all that tributewhich the Jewish nation owed to the firstkings of Syria. And this he had done, ifTrypho had not hindered him, and divertedhis preparations against Jonathan, to a con­cern for his own preservation. For he nowreturned out of Arabia into Syria, with thechild Antiochus; for he was yet in age but ayouth; and put the diadem on his head. Andas the whole forces that had left Demetrius,because they had no pay, came to his assist­ance, he made war upon Demetrius, and,joining battle with him. overcame him in thefight; and took from him both his elephantsand the city Antioch. Upon this defeat Demetrius retired intoCilicia; but the child Antiochus sent ambas­sadors, and an epistle, to Jonathan; to makehim his friend, and confederate; and con­firmed to him the high-priesthood, and yielded up to him the four prefectures which hadbeen added to Judea. Moreover he sent himvessels, and cups of gold, and a purple gar­ment, and gave him leave to use them. Healso presented him with a golden button;and styled him one of his principal friends;and appointed his brother Simon to be thegeneral over the forces from the ladder ofTyre, into Egypt.* So Jonathan was sopleased with these grants made him by An­tiochus, that he sent ambassadors to him, andto Trypho, and professed himself their friendand confederate: and he said he would joinwith them in a war against Demetrius; forthat he had made no proper returns for thekindnesses he had done him, but on the con­trary he, for such good turns, had requitedhim with injuries. So Antiochus gave Jonathan leave to raisea numerous army out of Syria, and Phoenicia,and to make war against Demetrius's gene­rals. Whereupon he went in haste to theseveral cities; which received him splendidlyindeed, but put no forces into his hands. Andwhen he was come from thence to Ascalon,the inhabitants of Ascalon came, and broughthim presents, and met him in a splendid man­ner. He exhorted them, and every one ofthe cities of Coclesyria, to forsake Demetriusand to join with Antiochus; to endeavour topunish Demetrius, for what offences he hadbeen guilty of against themselves; and toldthem, there were many reasons for that pro­cedure, if they had a mind so to do. Andwhen he had persuaded those cities to pro­mise their assistance to Antiochus, he cameto Gaza, in order to induce them also to befriends to Antiochus. But he found the in­habitants of Gaza much more alienated fromhim than he expected: for they had shuttheir gates against him: and although theyhad deserted Demetrius, they had not re­solved to join themselves to Antiochus. Thisprovoked Jonathan to besiege them, and toharass their country. For as he set a part ofhis army round about Gaza itself, so with therest he overran their land, and spoiled it, andburnt what was in it.f When the inhabitantsof Gaza saw themselves in this state of afflic­tion; and that no assistance came to themfrom Demetrius; that what distressed them * 1 Mace. xi. 57—59.voL. I.—NOS. 39 & 40. t 1 Mace. xi. 61.4F