OCR Output TARENTUM. 1095 TAKENTUM. r«;/ii gernnXlj have reckoned it a city of Magnaiwvis, and not bare regarded it as included iniprpa. Its situation is peculiar, occupying aruteac-torr or peninsula at the entrance of an ex­tern? but shallow bay, now called the Mare Pic-■ '•s, but in ancient times known as the Port of[in-ccom, an inlet of above 6 miles in length, andua 2 to 3 in breadth, but which was so nearlyl»ai tt its mouth by the peninsula occupied by theitj, tint the latter is now connected by a bridgel'Ji the opposite aide of the harbour. There canf mi duabt that the ancient city originally occupiedlie tune space to which the modern one is now..£.«M, ilat of the low but rocky islet which liesractly across the mouth of the harbour, aud is nowtawtwi from the mainland at its E. extremity byi artificial fosse or ditch, but was previously joinedit by a narrow neck of sand. This may probably>' t been itself a later accumulation; and it is notStar/ that tlie city was originally founded on anmL lomewhat resembling that of Ortygia at Syra-* which afterwards became joined to the main-u. io<i has again been artificially separated fromAs in the case of Syracuse, this island or pen­al* afterwards became the Acropolis of the en-:w) city, which extended itself widely over the■rining plain. lsrvutuni was a Greek city, a colony of Sparta,aJed a-ithin a few years after the two Achaean-iw of Sybaria and Crotona. The circumstancest W to its foundation are related with some■tixo by Antiochua and Ephorus (both cited by■bo), but both aalhorB agree in the main fact thatcwonists were a body of young men, born duringr mt Messenian War under circumstances which'over tlutir birth a taint of illegitimacy, onaj account they were treated with contempt by'<iitr citizens; and after an abortive attempt attier; a revolution at Sparta, they determined topate in a body under a leader named Phalan-i. They were distinguished by the epithet oflionise, in allnsion to their origin. Phalanthus, km apparently himself one of the disparaged>, uid had been the chief of the conspirators atta, after consulting the oracle at Delphi, becamelt*ier and founder of the new colony. (Antio-\ op. Strab. vi. p. 278; Ephorus, lb. p. 279;. ad Am. iii. 551; Diod. xv. 66; Justin, iii. 4;in. Ch. 332.) Both Antiochus and Ephorussent them as establishing themselves withoutuity on the spot, and received in a friendly■er by the natives; and this is far more probabletlv statement of l'ausanias, according to which f i-ittd themselves in constant warfare; and it'»* till after a long struggle that they were ableu-? themselves masters of Tarentum. (Pans. x.) f- ) The same author represents that city asnady occupied by the indigenous tribes, and;* a great and powerful city, but this is highlytuble. The name, however, is probably ofi origin, and seems to have been derived from'< tie small river or stream which always con- to be known as the Taras; though, as nsual,■neks derived it from an eponymous hero named', who was represented as a son of Neptune andnj-b. of the country. (Paus. 76. § 8 ) It isl> that tlie hero Tares continued to be an object■rial worship at Tarentum, while Phalanthus,5 15 revered as their Oekist, was frequentlytiled with him, and gradually became the sub.ut many legends of a very mythical character, in some of which he appears to have been confoundedwith Taras himself. (Paus. x. 10. §§ 6-8, 13.§ 10; Serv. ad A en. l.c) Nevertheless, there isno reason to donbt the historical character of Pha­lanthus, or the Lacedaemonian origin of Tarentum,which was confirmed by numerous local names andreligious observances still retained there down to avery late period. (Pol. viii. 30, 35.) The Romanpoets also abound in allusions to this origin of theTarentines. (Hor. Cam. iii. 5. 56, ii. 6. 11; Ovid.Met. xv. 50, &c.) The date of the foundation ofTarentum is given by Hieronytnus as b. c. 708, andthis, which is in accordance with the circumstancesrelated in connection with it, is probably correct,though no other author has mentioned the precisedate. (Hieron. Ckron. ad 01. xviii.) The history of Tarentum, for the first two cen­turies of its existence, is, like that of most othercities of Magna Graecia, almost wholly unknown.But the main fact is well attested that it attainedto great power and prosperity, though apparently atfirst ovorshadowed by the superior power of theAchaean cities, so that it was not till a later periodthat it assumed the predominant position among thecities of Magna Graecia, which it ultimately at­tained. There can be no doubt that it owed thisprosperity mainly to the natural advantages of itssituation. (Scymn. Ch. 332—336; Strab. vi. p. 278.)Though its territory was not so fertile, or so welladapted for the growth of grain as those of Meta-pontum and Siris, it was admirably suited for thegrowth of olives, and its pastures produced wool ofthe finest quality, while its port, or inner sea as itwas called, abounded in shell-fish of all descriptions,among which the Mum, which produced the cele­brated purple dye, was the most important andvaluable. But it was especially the excellence ofits port to which Tarentnm owed its rapid rise toopulence and power. This was not only landlockedand secure, but was the" only safe harbour of anyextent on the whole shores of the Tarentinc gulf;and as neither Brundusium nor Hydruntum. on theopposite side of the Messapian peninsula, had as yetattained to any eminence, or fallen into the handsof a seafaring people, the port of Tarentum becamethe chief emporium for the commerce of all this partof Italy. (Pol. x. 1; Flor. i. 18. § 3.) The storyof Arion, as related by Herodotus (i. 24) indicatesthe existence of extensive commercial relations withCorinth and other cities of Greece as early as thereign of Periander, B. c. 625—585. As the Tarentines gradually extended their powerover the adjoining territories, they naturally cameinto frequent collision with the native tribes of theinterior,—the Messapians and Peucetians; and thefirst events of their history recorded to us relate totheir wars with these nations. Their offerings atDelphi noticed by Pausanias (x. 10. § 6, 13. § 10),recorded victories over both these nations, in one ofwhich it appears thai Opis, a king of the Iapygians,who had come to the assistance of the Peucetians,was slain; but we have no knowledge of the dutesor circumstances of these battles. It would appear,however, that the Tarentines were continually gain­ing ground, and making themselves masters of theMessapian towns one after the other, until theirprogress was checked by a great disaster, their ownforces, together with those of the Rhegians, whohad been sent to their assistance, being totally de­feated by the barbarians with great slaughter.CHerod, vii. 170; Diod. xi. 52.) Su heavy was their 4 A 4