OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 127 he put on such a mournful dress as be would have done had helost his dearest friends in the world ; this man came into the thea­tre, and informed them of the death of Caius, and by this meansput an end to that state of ignorance the men had been in. Ar-runtius also went round about the pillarSi and called out to theGermans, as did the tribunes with him, bidding them put uptheir swords, and telling them that Cams was dead. And thisproclamation it was plainly which saved those that were collect­ed together in the theatre, and all the rest who any way met theGermans; for, while they had hopes that Caius had still anybreath in him, they abstained from no sort of mischief ; and suchan abundant kindness they still had for Caius, that they wouldwillingly have prevented the plot against him, and procured hisescape from so sad a misfortune, at the expcnce of their ownlives. But they now left off the warm zeal they had to punishhis enemies, now they were fully satisfied that Caius was dead,because it was now in vain for them to-shew their zeal and kind­ness to him, when he that should reward them was perished. Theywere also afraid that they should be punched by the senate, ifthey should go on in doing such injuries, that is, in case the au­thority of the supreme governor should revert to them. Andthus at length a stop was put, though not without difficulty, tothat rage which possessed the Germans on account of Caius'sdeath. 19. But Cherca was so much afraid for Minucianus, lest heshould light upon the Germans, now they were in their fury,that he went and spake to every one of the soldiers, and prayedthem to take care of his preservation, and made himself great in­quiry about him, lest he should have been slain. And for Cle­ment, he let Minucianus go when he was brought to him, and,with many other of the senators, affirmed the action was right,and commended the virtue of those that contrived it, and hadcourage enough to execute it; and said, that " tyrants do indeed" please themselves and look big for a while, upon having the" power to act unjustly ; but do not however go happily out of" the world, because they are hated by the virtuous ; and that" Caius, together with all his unhappiness, was become a con-"spirator against himself, before these other men who attacked" him did so ; and by becoming intolerable, in setting aside thfc" wise provision the laws had made, taught his dearest friends" to treat him as an enemy ; insomuch, that although in com-" mon discourse thess conspirators were those that slew Caius.," yet that, in reality, he lies now dead as perishing by his own*' self." ' ' ' .'.. ''. ' 20. Now by this lime the people in the theatre were arisen from