OCR Output 62 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. having not been inferior to any of his ances­tors in piety towards God; and having sucha recompence for it as it was fit those shouldhave, who were so good as these were. Jo­seph, by the king's permission, carried hisfather's dead body to Hebron, and thereburied it, at a great expense.* But his bre­thren were at first unwilling to return backwith him; because they were afraid, lest nowtheir father was dead, he should punish themfor their secret practices against him; sincehe was now gone, for whose sake he hadbeen so gracious to them. He persuadedthem, however, to fear no harm, and to en­tertain no suspicions of him; so he broughtthem along with him, and gave them greatpossessions, and continually evinced the mostparticular concern for them.t Joseph also died when he had lived a hundred and ten years ;J having been a manof admirable virtue; who conducted all hisaffairs by the rules of reason, and used hisauthority with moderation; which was thecause of his great felicity among the Egyp­tians, even when he came from another coun­try, and that in such ill circumstances as wehave already described. At length his bre­thren died, after they had lived happily inEgypt. Now the posterity and sons of thesemen after some time carried their bodies, andburied ||them at Hebron. But as to the bonesof Joseph, they carried them into the land ofCanaan afterwards,§ when the Hebrews wentout of Egypt; for so had Joseph made thempromise him upon oath. **But what becameof every one of these men, and by what toilsthey got the possession of the land of Canaan,shall be shewn hereafter; when I have ex-nothing of them in the linen in which they were wrappedbut the bones, and those half rotten." [Letter vii. p. 281.)Antique coffins of stone, and sycamore wood, are still to beseen in Egypt. It is said that some were formerly made ofa kind of pasteboard, formed by folding and glueing clothtogether a great number of times; these were curiouslyplaistered and painted with hieroglyphics. Thevenot, parti. p. 137. B. * Though there be something of a natural desire inmost men to be buried in the places where their ancestorslie; yet Jacob's aversion to have his remains deposited inEgypt seems to be more earnest than ordinary, or other­wise he would never have imposed an oath upon his sons,and charged them all, with his dying breath, not to sufferit to be done. For he very well knew, that had his bodybeen buried in Egypt, his posterity, upon that very ac­count, would have been too much wedded to the country,ever to attempt the acquisition of the promised land; andtherefore, to wean them from the thought of continuing inEgypt, and to fix their minds and affections in Canaan, heordered his body to be carried thither beforehand, in tes­timony that he died in full persuasion of the truth of thepromises which were given to him and his ancestors: norwas it inconvenient, that future generations, after their re­turn into Canaan, should have before their eyes the Sepul­chre of their forefathers, for a record of their virtues, andan incitement to the imitation of them. But the strongestmotive of all for Jacob's desiring to be buried in Canaan,(supposing that he foreknew that our Saviour Christ wasto live and die, and with some others, rise again in thatcountry) was, that he might be one of that blessed number;as it was indeed an ancient tradition in the church, thatamong those, who came out of their graves after our Lord'sresurrection, Mat. xxvii. 53, the patriarch Jacob was one.PooVs Annotations, and Bibliotheca Bibl. B. T Gen. i. 21. X When Joseph died he was not only embalmed, butput into a coffin. This was an honour appropriated topersons of distinction, coffins not being universally used inEgypt. Maillet, speaking of the Egyptian repositories ofthe dead, having given an account of several niches thatare found there, says, "it must not be imagined, that thebodies deposited in these gloomy apartments were all en­closed in chests, and placed in niches; the greatest partwere simply embalmed and swathed after that manner thatevery one hath some notion of; after which they laidthem one by the side of another without any ceremony:some were even put into these tombs without any em­balming at all, or such a slight one, that there remains II Of the burying places of Joseph, and of the other pa­triarchs, as they are here rightly stated, see Test. Simeon,§8. and Test. Benjamin, § 12, with the Note, in Authent.Rec. Part 1, page 415, 416. § Exodus, xiii. 19. Acts vii. 16. ** There are several reasons which might induce Jo­seph not to have his dead body immediately carried intoCanaan, and buried as his father was. 1st, Because hisbrethren, after his decease, might not have interest enoughat court to provide themselves with such things as werenecessary to set off the pomp and solemnity of a funeralbefitting so great a personage. Silly, Because he mightforesee,- that the Egyptians, in all probability, as long astheir veneration for his memory was warm, would hardlyhave suffered his remains to have been carried into ano­ther country. 3dly, Because the continuance of his re­mains among them might be a means to preserve the re­membrance of the services he had done them, and therebyan inducement to them to treat the relations he had leftbehind him with more kindness. 4thly, And chiefly, be­cause the presence of his body with the Israelites mightbe a pledge to assure them, and a means to strengthen andconfirm their faith, and hope in God's promises to theirprogenitors, that he would infallibly put their posterity inpossession of the land of Canaan: and accordingly, whenMoses delivered them out of Egypt, he carried Joseph'sbody along with him, (Exod. xiii. 19.) and committed it tothe care of the tribe of Ephraim, who buried it near She-chem, (Josh. xxiv. 32.) in the field which Jacob, a littlebefore his death, gave to Joseph, as his peculiar property.Pereius, and Patrick's Commentary; Pool's Annotations,and Calmet's Dictionary under the word. B