OCR Output EOMA. 793 rsf a tinted terrace, presenting the segment ofnrrie, which tu excavated at this part of therara anew reus ago, is the actual rostra (Indi-i&mr, p. 270, ed. 1850, and his Dissertation "5u>.arn* del Furo Romano*' in the Atti dell Acca-Bowk, rfi Airheologia, viii. p. 107, seq.; cf.- ier. I/ailbwh, p. 359). It seems also to have-i her* that Augustus received tl« homage oftu. when the latter was celebrating his GermanExopn: "Ac priusqnam in Capitolium flecteret,e curru, seque praeaidenti patri ad genua'(Suet Tib. 20.) The scene is representedLurr Vienna Cameo. (Eckhel, Pierres gra-ra, I; Miaifrl. lconogr. Rom. 1 9, vol. ii. p. 62.)that inferences are just the ancient rostra wonldf-nr to have been used occasionally after the erec- V the new ones.The Statues or Sulla asd Pompkt, of which^mwr appears to have been a gilt equestrian one,"rr-erect*J near the new rostra, as they had for-rty stood by the old ones. After the battle of Pilar­is they were both removed, but Caesar replacedBesides these there were two Statues of!• (a. and an equestrian StatI'k of Octavian.<m Caaa. 18, xliii. 49, xliv. 4; Suet. Cow. App. B.C. I 97.)'aw alao began the large basilica on the S. sidebr fcram, called after him the Basilica Julia; ie moat of* his other works, he left it to be.■-c by Augustus (" Forum Julium et Basilicamf fail inter aedem Castoris et aedem Satumi,prgbcataqtie opera a patre meo perfeci,** Mim.y ). lis situation is here so accurately fixed that it cannot possibly he mistaken, namely, betweenthe temple of Saturn, which, as we have seen, stoodat the head of the forum, and the temple of Castor,which lay near that of Vesta; and the Notitia indi­cates the same position; so that it must have beenBituatcd between the Vicus Jugarius and VicusTuscus. It has been seen before that this was thesite of the ancient Basilica Sempronia, a building ofwhich we hear no more during the imperial times;whence it seems probable that it was either pulleddown by Caesar in order to erect his new basilicaupon the site, or that it had previously gone to ruin.And this is confirmed by the fact that, in the exca­vations made in 1780, it was ascertained that thebasilica was erected upon another ancient foundation,which Canina erroneously supposes to have been thatof the comitium. (Fredenheim^irpose* tTtme Decott-verte faite dang It Forum Romain, Strasbourg, 1796;Fea, Varietit di Sotizie e deUa Basilica Giulia edalcuni Siti del Foro Romano, ap. Canina, Foro Ro­mano, p. 118.) In some excavations made in 1835near the column of Phocas, another proof of the sitoof the basilica was discovered. It was the followingfragment of an inscription, which taken by itselfseems too mangled and imperfect to prove anything: . . . A . . . ASILICA . . . ER REPARATAE . . . SKT adikcit. It was recollected, however, that thismust be the fragment of an inscription discoveredin the 16th century at this spot, which is recordedby Gruter (clxxi. 7) and by Panvinius in his De-gcriplio Urbig Romae (Graevius, iii. p 300). Thetwo inscriptions, when put in juxta-position, appearas follows :— A . .ASIIJCA o doobt that they were the same.JeW lmtt. Marzo, 1835) Panvinius,> wark wma written in 1558, as appears fromKt atorr epistle, says that the inscription was: • ^auiio ante in foro Romano prope columnam,"a. the *iA*rT'm of Phocas. The basis on whicha! an*t therefore have been again covered withdb. tiQ the inscription was re-discovered in itsinjarferl form after a lapse of nearly three■as. ArmliDUs and Pronto were consuls A. I>.arj ranaeqoently in the reign of Septimiusa, when thai basilica appears to have been twher. therefore, the site of the basilica maya-, vred aa better ascertained than these of« 'be imperfect monuments. It must have. m.W on the E- *»' W"., like the basilica- s», br the Vicua Tuscus and the VicusIt a; pe»ra from the Monument urn Ancy-I that the original building, begun by Caesar,br Augustas, was burnt down during;, ,.( tbe'latter, and again rebuilt by him on^ witii the design that it should be in the Ejunea of his grandsons Caius andI (* Et aandefli batailicarn consumptam' OABINIUS VKTTIV9I'KOBIAMUS . V. C. TRAEF. VBBBTATUAM QVAE BA8ILICAEIVLIAE A SE NOVITERREPAKATAB . OrtNAMKNTO E8SET ADIKCITKEDIC . XV. KAL . FEURVARI PVBUCORVM CORNELIO ANNVL1NO fiKT. AVFID . FKONTONE ( OS. sab titulo nominis filiorum I [meorum] inchoavi et, si vivus non perfecissem,perfici ab heredibus [meis jussi]." But, from asupplement of the same inscription recently disco­vered, it appears that Augustus lived to completethe work (" Opera fecit nova—forum Augustum, Ba­silicam Juliam," etc.; Franz, in Gerhard's Archiiolog.Zeit. No. ii. 1843). Nevertheless it seems to haveanciently borne the names of bis grandsons: *' Quae-dam etiam opera sub nomine alieno, nepotum scilicetet uxoris sororisque fecit: ut porticum bosilicamqueLucii et Caii, &c." (Suet. Aug. 29). The additionwhich Augustus mentions having made to thebuilding (•' ampliato ejus solo ") may probably havebeen the portico here mentioned. In A. v. 282it was again destroyed by fire, and was rebuilt byDiocletian (Calui Imp. Vienn. p. 247, Rene.) The Basilica Julia was chiefly used for the sittingsof law-courts, and especially for the causae centum-virales (Plin. Kput. v. 21, ii. 14.) Its immense sizemay be inferred from another passage in Pliny (vi.,13),from which we learn that 180 judices, divided intq4 concilia, or courts, with 4 separate tribunals, andnumerous benches of advocates, besides a large con­course of spectators, both men and women,were accus­tomed to assemble here. Tbe 4 tribunals are alsomentioned by Quintilian (/n. Or. xii. 5, 6J. .