OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS three intervals for walking in the middle of this cloister; twoof which walks were made parallel to each other, and were con足trived after the same manner ; the breadth of each of them wasthirty feet, the length was a furlong, and the height fifty feet,but the breadth of the middle part of the cloister was one anda half of the other, and the heig-ht was double, for it was muchhigher than those on each side; but the roofs were adorned withdeep sculptures in wood, representing many sorts of figures:the middle was much higher than the rest, and the wall of thefront was adorned with beams, resting upon pillars that wereinterwoven into it, and that front was all of polished stone; inTsomuch, that its fineness, to such as had not seen it, was incred足ible, and to such as had seen it, was greatly amazing. Thuswas the first enclosure, in the midst of which, and not far from,it, was the second, to be gone up to by a few steps; this, wasencompassed by a stone wall for a partition, with an inscription,'which forbade any foreigner to go in under pain of death. Now,this inner enclosure had on its southern and northern quartersthree gates [equally] distant one from another; but on the eastquarter, towards the sunrising, there was one large gate,through which such as were pure came in, together with their'wives, but the temple farther inward in that gate was notallowed to the women; but still more inward was there a third-[court of the] temple, whereinto it was not lawful for any butthe priests alone to enter. The temple itself was within this;and before that temple was the altar, upon which we offerour sacrifices and burnt-offerings to God. Into * none of thesethree did king Herod enter, for he was forbidden, because hewas not a priest. However, he took care of the cloisters, andthe outer enclosures, and these he built in eight years. 6. But the temple itself was built by the priests in a year andsix months: upon which all the people were full of joy; andpresently they returned thanks, in the first place to God, andin the next place, for the alacrity the king had showed. Theyfeasted, and celebrated this rebuilding of the temple: And forthe king, he sacrificed three hundred oxen to God, as did therest, every one according to his ability; the number of whichsacrifices is not possible to be set down, for it cannot be that weshould truly relate it: for at the same time with this celebra足 * Into none of these three Aid king Herod enter, i. e. 1. Not into Ihe court ofthe priests; 2. nor into the holy house itself; 3. nor into the separate place be.longing to the altar, as the words following imply, for none but priests, or theirattendants, the Levites, might come into any of them. See Antiq. B. XVJ. ch.iv. sect. 6. when Herod goes into the temple, and makes a speech in it to the peo足ple, but that could only be into the court of Israel, whither Uie people could cometo hear him.