OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 123 of these desperates, who, forming into a circle, andcontinuing the fight, were slain to a man. 23. This severity, executed by an enraged enemyon those who opposed them in arms, especially as theywere at the time engaged in hostilities with anotherpeople, was not inconsistent with the laws of war.But the more shocking havoc was in the city, wherea weak unarmed crowd of women and children wereassailed by their own countrymen, who tossed theiralmost lifeless bodies on the burning pile, while streamsof blood kept down the rising flames, and who at last,wearied with the wretched slaughter of their friends,cast themselves with their arms] into the midst of thefire. Just as the carnage was completed the victoriousRomans arrived. On the first sight of such a horridtransaction, they were for a time struck motionlesswith astonishment; hut afterwards, on seeing the goldand silver glittering between the heaps of other mat­ters, with the greediness natural to mankind, theywished to snatch them out of the burning heap. Inattempting this, some were caught by the flames,others scorched by blasts of the heat, the foremostfinding it impracticable to make a retreat against thepress of so great a crowd. Thus was Astapa utterlydestroyed by fire and sword, and without enriching thesoldiers with booty. All the other inhabitants of thatdistrict, terrified at this event, made their submissions.Marcius led back his victorious army to join Scipioat Carthage. Just at the same time some desertersarrived from Gades, who promised to deliver up thecity, the Carthaginian garrison, and the commander ofthe garrison, together with the fleet. Mago had haltedthere after his flight; and haVing collected a few shipsfrom the ocean adjoining, and, with the assistance ofHanno his lieutenant, assembled others from the near­est parts of Spain, had brought some supplies fromthe coast of Africa. Terms being adjusted with thedeserters, and ratified on both sides, Marcius wasdespatched thither with some cohorts equipped for ex­pedition, and Laelius also, with seven three-banked