OCR Output MENUS. RHENUS. 707 it (Bi£k), where the Rhine is about 800 feet«lie n, ml hen we may fix the terminationu* l'[>|*r Rhine. The drainage of all that part^ueriiod which lies north of the Lake ofwrn and the Bernese Alps is carried to the» * the j) or, which joins it on the left bank'.'Mrv, ooe of the Raman Conflucntes. &i*Ze the Rhine has a general north coarsewhere it enters the low country which■j i put of the greet plain of Northern Europe.I mj be called the Middle Rhine. In this partjoene the river receives few streams on theHit The chief river is the Motet (Moeellu),i jus it si Cublaa (Confluentes). On the I auk it is joined by the Seekar (Nicer), the» M-joia), which joins it at Mau*z (Mogun-oL ud the Lakn (Langana), which joins it atWiauawa. i' Bum the river has still a general north * (Jit Colngme (Colonia Agrippinensis) as farW, where it is joined on the right hank by the II l.cppia). Mil higher up by the Roer or Ruhru Between Cologne and Wetel it is joined on"•« uje by the ErfL From Watl its course I ud then west to Pamerden in the kingdom * Sriherlsnde. At Panntrden it divides intowinches, of which the southern is called the II Viailis), ud the northern retains the nameaw. The Waal has the greater volume of ■ It rats westward, and is joined at Gorcum ■ ** kaak by the Moat (Moea). The Mootc*»ln several times after its junction withreai The main branch is joined on the right» lie Lick, a branch which comes from therrarrr at H'fck by Dvmtede, and flows past•em into the North Sea. < Bune, which was divided at Pamerden,ieu to Anthem (Arenacum), above whicht cecflmanicates with the Yuel at Dott-i channel which is supposed to be the(tauaaa, the canal of Drusus. [Kl.EVO 0 The r«eef runa north from Boetburg/•airr Zee, which it enters on the east side)■ !awa of Kampen. The Rhine rnns west-rci .trwaetwi, and at Wyck by Duuretede, as 1 *4 amds off the branch called the Leek,*ti the Moat. The Rhine divides again at'Trejectmn): one branch called the Vecht'-fcward into the Zuider Zee; the other,% or Old Rhine, continues its course with^ volume, and passing by Leiden enters Sra at Katteyck. The whole course of» » eetimated at about 950 miles.>lu of the Rhine lies between the F*eW,'-wt into the Zuider Zee, and the Moot, ifat it simply as determined by mere boun-Du all this surface is not alluvial ground,nseni part of the province of Utrecht ami"• 4 Cnelderland which is between the * /aider Zee, and the Yuel contains small> which are not alluvial. **criptwi of the Rhine is necessary in.-J-rsund what the ancient writers have L I* description of the Rhine that we possess'.-*■! authority is Caesar's, though he had■arh of it. Be aaya {B. G. iv. 15) thata the Alpine regions of the Lepontii, and11 l>«g eoone along tho bonndaries of thei Hdvetii, Seqtuni, Mediomatrici, Triboci,to, in a rapid course. The name Nantuatcs is corrupt [Nahtuates], If we make the limitsof the Treviri extend nearly to the Netherlands orthe commencement of the low country, Caesar hasshown pretty clearly the place where the Rhineenters the great plain. Oa approaching the oceun,he says, it forms many islands, and enters the seaby several mouths (capita). He knew that theRhine divided into two main brunches near thesea; and he says that one of the branches namedthe Vahalis {Waal) joined the Mosa {Maas), andformed the Insula Batavorum [Batavoulm In­sula], He speaks of the rapidity of the river, andits breadth and depth in that part where he builthis wooden bridge over it. {B. G. iv. 17.) Hemade the bridge between CobUnz and Andtniach,higher up than the place where the river enters tholow country. He crossed the Rhine a second timeby a bridge which he constructed a little higher upthan the first bridge. (B. G. vi. 9.) Those persons, and Caesar of course, who saidthat the Rhine had more than two outlets werecriticised by Asinius Pollio (Strab. iv. p. 192); andVirgil {Aen. viii. 724, Rhenique bicornis) followsPollio's authority. But if the Mosa divided as itdoes now, Caesar was right and Pollio was wrong. Strabo, who had some other authorities for hisdescription of the Rhine besides Caesar, and perhapsbesides Caesar and Pullio, does not admit Pollio'sstatement of the Rhine having a course of 6000stadia; and yet Pollio's estimate is much below thetruth. Strabo says that the length of the river ina right line is not much above one-half of Pollio'sestimate, and that if we add 1000 stadia for thewindings, that will be enough. This assertion andhis argument founded on the rapidity of the stream,show that he knew nothing of the great circuit thatthe Rhine makes between its source and Basle. Heknew, however, that it flowed north, but unluckilyhe supposed the Seine also to flow north. He alsomade the great mistake of affirming that the countyof Kent may be seen from the mouths of the Rhine.He says that the Rhine had several sources, and heplaces them in the Adulas, a part of the Alps.In the same mountain mass he piaces the source ofthe Aduas, or Addua {Adda), which flows southinto the lake Larius {Logo di Como). [Addua.] The most difficult question about the Rhine is theoutlets. When Pliny and Tacitus wrote, Drnsusthe brother of Tiberius had been on the lower Rhine,and also Germaiiicus, the son of Drusus, and otherRoman commanders. Pliny (iv. 14) speaks ofthe Rhenus and the Mosa as two distinct rivers.In another passage (iv. 15) he says that theRhine has three outlets: the western, named Helium,flows into the Mosa; the most northerly, namedFlevum, flows into the lakes {Zuider Zte); and thomiddle branch, which is of moderate size, retainsthe name Rhenus. He supposed that there wereislands in the Rhine between the Helium and theFlcvum; and the Batavorum Insula, in which werethe Canninefates also, is one of them. He alsoplaces between these two branches the islands of theKrisii, Chauci, Frisiabones, Sturii, and Marsacii.The Flevum of Pliny corresponds to the Flevo ofMela [Klkvo Lact»], who mentions this branchand only another, whicli he calls the Rhenus, whichcorresponds to Pliny's Rhenus. Mela mentions noother outlets. He considered the third to be theMosa, we may suppose, if he knew anything aboutit Tacitus {Ann. u. 6) observes that the Rhino z z 2