OCR Output 174 LIVY. lotted to yourself, you should vaunt of coming hitherto succor others.' To this Volumnius rejoined, ' MayHercules direct all for the hest! for his part, he wasbetter pleased that he had taken useless trouble, thanthat any conjuncture should have arisen which badmade one consular army insufficient for Etruria.' 19. As the consuls were parting, the lieutenants-general and tribunes of Appius' army gathered roundthem. Some intreated their own general that hewould not reject the voluntary offer of his colleague'sassistance, which he ought to have solicited: thegreater number used their endeavors to stop Volum足nius, beseeching him ' not, through a peevish disputewith his colleague, to abandon the interest of the com足monwealth ; and represented to him that in case anymisfortune should happen, the blame would fall on theperson who forsook the other, not on the one forsaken ;that the state of affairs was such, that the credit anddiscredit of every success and failure in Etruria wouldbe attributed to Lucius Volumnius : for .no one wouldinquire what were the words of Appius, but what thesituation of the army. Appius indeed had dismissedhim, but the commonwealth and the army required hisstay. Let him only make trial of the inclinations ofthe soldiers.' By such admonitions and intreatiesthey, in a manner, dragged the consuls to an assembly.There, longer discourses were made to the same pur足port, as had passed before in the presence of a few.As Volumnius had the advantage of the argument, so- did he show himself not deficient in oratory, in despiteof the extraordinary eloquence of his colleague. Onwhich Appius observed with a sneer, that' they oughtto acknowlege themselves indebted to him, in having aconsul, who, among his other qualifications, possessedeloquence also, instead of being dumb and speechlessas he was in their former consulate; when, particu足larly during the first months, he was not able so muchas to open his lips ; but now, in his harangues, evenaspired after popularity.' Volumnius replied, ' Howmuch more earnestly do I wish that you had learned