OCR Output 262 Book r WARS OF THE JEWS. and the greatest part of his army were destroyed, either in tjteaction or the flight; and for the rest, who fled to the village ofCana, it happened that they were all consumed by want of ne­cessaries, a few only excepted. . , 8. About this time it was that the people of Damascus, out oftheir hatred to Ptolemy, the son of Menneus, invited Aretas [totake the government],, and made him king of Ceiesyria. Thisman also made an expedition against Judea, and beat Alexanderin battle ; but afterwards retired by mutual agreement. ButAlexander, when he had taken Pella, marched to Gerasa again,out of the covetous desire he had of Theodorus's possessions ;and when he had built a triple wall about the garrison, he tookthe place by force. He also demolished Golan, and Seleucia,and what was called The trolley of Antiochus ; besides which, hetook the strong fortress of Gamala, and stripped Demetrius,who was governor therein, of what he had, on account of themany crimes laid to his charge, and then returned into Judea,after he had been three whole years in this expedition. Andnow he was kindly received of the nation, because of the goodsuccess he had. So, when he was at rest from war, he fell intoa distemper ; for he was arBicted with a quartan ague, and sup­posed that byexercising himself again in martial affairs, he should-get rid of this distemper ; but, by making such expeditions atunseasonable times, and forcing his body to undergo greaterhardships than it was able to bear, he brought himself to hisend. He died, therefore, in the midst of his troubles, after hohad reigned seven and twenty years. , CHAP V. Alexandra reigns nine years, during which time the Pharisees vecrethe real rulers of the nation. § 1. 'VTOW Alexander left the kingdom to Alexandra his wife,and dependedupon it, that the Jews would nowvery rea­dily submit to her ; because she had been very averse to suchcruelty as he had treated them with, and had opposed his viola­tion of their laws, and had thereby got the good-will of thepeople. Nor was he mistaken as to his expectations; for thiswoman kept the dominion, by the opinion that the people hadof her piety ; for she chiefly studied the ancient customs of hercountry, and cast those men out of the government that offendedv against their holy laws. And, as she had two sons by Alexan­der, she made Hyrcanus the elder high-priest, on account of hisage, as also, besides that, on account of his inactive temper, noway disposing him to disturb the public. But she retained the younger