OCR Output 278 THE PEL0PONNESIAK WAR. and Procles the son of Theodoras, appeared upon the coastof Peloponnesus ; whilst a larger armament of sixty, andtwo thousand heavy-armed, was employed against Melos,under the command of Nicias son of Niceratus. Melos isan island; and as the inhabitants of it were averse to theAthenian subjection, and had refused to accede to their al­liance, they were now bent on its reduction. Having laidthe island waste, and the Melians still refusing to submit,the Athenians put again to sea, and crossed over to Oropuson the opposite shore ; where arriving at night, the heavy-armed were detached to march with all expedition by landtowards Tanagra of Boeotia. Notice being given of theirarrival there, they were instantly joined by the whole forceof Athens, which had marched out of the city under theorders of Hipponicus the son of Callias and Eurymedon theson of Thucles. A camp they formed ; and having for thespace of a day laid the territory waste, they reposed them­selves there the succeeding night. But the next morninghaving gained a victory over the Tanagreans, who aided bya party of Thebans sallied out upon them, they only staidto gather up the arms and erect a trophy, and then marchedaway—these back again to the city; and those to the fleet.Nicias upon this, putting out again with his sixty sail, plun­dered all the sea-coast of Locris, and then returned into theharbour of Athens. It was about this time that the Lacedaemonians foundedthe colony of Heraclea in Trachinia. Their view in doing it was this: Those, who in general are stiled Melien- sians, are divided into three bodies ; Paralians, Hierensians,and Trachinians. The last of these, the Trachinians, whohad been terribly distressed by a war made upon them bythe bordering Oeteeans, had first of all intended to throw carried off all the glory of eloquence : But the Dcmotthenca, who is thesubject of this note, was an able general, Tory enterprizing, and verybrave; always vigilant in the service of bis country, though more as a sol­dier than a statesman ; and, provided hi* country was served, not too anx­ious about who carried off the honour. In short, he was an open-hearted,disinterested, worthy Athenian.