OCR Output 524 DISSERTATION III. interposition : however, they said at last, that if the cures suc­ceeded, Caesar would have the glory, if not, the poor miserableobjects would only be laughed at. Whereupon Vespasianimagined that his good fortune would be universal, and thatnothing on that account could bo incredible, so he lookedcheerfully, and, in the sight of the multitude, who stood ingreat expectation, he did what they desired him : upon whichthe lame hand was recovered, and the blind man saw imme­diately. Both these cures' are related to this day by thosethat were present, and when speaking falsely, will get noreward. book v. CHAP. I. At the beginning of the same year, Titus Coesar, who waspitched upon by his father to finish the conquest of Judea,and while both he and his father were private persons, wascelebrated for his martial conduct, acted now with greatervigor and hopes of reputation, the kind inclinations both ofthe provinces and of the armies striving one with another whoshould most encourage him. He was also himself in a dispo­sition to show that he was more than equal to his fortune;and when he appeared in arms, he did all things after such aready and graceful way, treating all after such an affablemanner, and with such kind words, as invited the good-willand good wishes of all. He appeared also in his actions andin his place in the troops ; he mixed with the common soldiers, / l 1'he miraculous cures done by Vespasian arc attested to both by Sueto­nius iu Vespasian, sect. 7, and by Dio, p. 217, and seem to me well attested.Uur Savior stems to have overruled the hcathen oracle of Serapis, to procure■ the divine approbation to Vespasian's advancement to the empire of Rome,I as he suggested the like approbation to the advancement both of Vespasianand Titus to Josephus, which two were to be his chosen instruments in bring­ing on that terrible destruction upon the Jewish nation, which he had threat­ened to execute by theso Roman armies. Nor could any other Roman gen­erals than Vespasian and Titus, at that time, in human probability, haveprevailed over the Jews, and destroyed Jerusalem, as this whole history inJosephus implies. Josephus also everywhere supposes Vespasian and Titugraised up to command against Judea and Jerusalem, and to govern the Ro­man empire by divine providence, and not in the ordinary way: as also, healways supposes this destruction a divine judgment on the Jews for their sins.