OCR Output ANTIMONY. 51 colour we discover whether the leaves have been applied single orare very thin; in order to prevent this, they fraudulently mix itwith the white of egg, and afterwards with hydrargyrum: of this Ishall give an account in its proper place.4 Quicksilver has notbeen procured in considerable quantity by any other means thanby the ore mentioned above. 33. OF STIMI, STIBIUM, ALABASTRUM, LARBAS0M, OKPLATYOPHTHALMUM. In the same silver ores there is also found a mineral, which wemay properly call a white and shining, but not a transparent, foam;it is named by some Stimmi, by others Stibium, Alabastrum, orLarbason. There are two species of it, male and female. Thefemale is most approved; the male is coarse and rough, and lessheavy, less shining, and more sandy. The female, on the con­trary, is brilliant, friable, and breaks into long fissures ratherthan into rounded masses.' 34. THE MEDICINES FROM IT. It possesses an astringent and refrigerant virtue; but its prin­cipal use is as an application for the eyes; on this account it isgenerally called platyophthalmum,6 since it dilates the eyes offemales when it enters into their eye-salves, i A powder composedof antimony and frankincense, mixed with gum, dries up thehumours, and heals the ulcers of the eyes; it also stops the flow­ing of blood from the brain. It is still more efficacious in recentwounds, and, when mixed with flour, in old wounds made by the * Sec. 41. The author makes a distinction between argentum vivum andhydrargyrum, the first being native quicksilver, the latter quicksilver reducedfrom its ore. 5 See Dioscorides, lib. iii. cap. S3. 8 XlXarvoipOaXiiov, amplos oculos faciens. 7 " Calliblephari;" these were not properly medical preparations, but sub­stances which were supposed to increase the beauty of the eyes, as it wouldappear, by tinging the lids and lashes. We learn from Shaw, Travels, p.229, that the women of Barbary tinge their eye-lids with a black substancewhich he calls " the powder of lead ore." See also Russell's Aleppo, note22, v.i.p. 336; where we learn that the women use for this purpose a blackpowder which is called Kohol, and is said to be a kind of lead ore broughtfrom Persia. There are some remarks on this custom in Hacmer's Obser­vations, vol. ii. p. 405. obs. IS, chap. 10. It is also noticed as being nowpractised in Turkey, by Lady M. W. Montague; Works, vol. ii. p. 12?. e2