OCR Output O DEDICATION. has the power of making whomever he may select an absolutejudge in his own cause, and hence it is termed an appeal.11 I am well aware that, placed as you are in the very higheststation, and gifted with the most splendid eloquence and the mostaccomplished mind, even those who come to pay their respects toyou, do it with a kind of veneration: on this account I ought tobe careful that what is dedicated to you should be worthy of you.But the country people, and indeed some whole nations, offer milkto. the Gods,12 and those who cannot procure frankincense substi­tute in its place salted cakes; for the Gods are not dissatisfiedwhen they are worshipped by every one to the best of his ability.But my temerity will appear the greater by the consideration,that these little volumes, which I dedicate to you, are of suchinferior importance. For they do not allow of the display ofgenius, nor indeed is mine one of the highest order; they admitof no excursions, nor orations, nor discussions, nor of any wonder­ful adventures, nor any variety of transactions, nor, from thebarrenness of the matter, of any thing particularly pleasant in thenarration, or agreeable to the reader. The nature of things, andlife as it actually exists, are described in them; and often the lowestdepartment of it; so that, in very many cases, I am obliged touse rude and foreign, or even barbarous, terms, and these oftenrequire to be formally introduced by a kind of preface. Andbesides this, my road is not a beaten track, nor one which themind is much disposed to travel over. There is no one among uswho has ever attempted it, nor is there any one individual amongthe Greeks who has treated of all the topics. Most of us seek fornothing but amusement in our studies, while others are fond ofsubjects that are of excessive subtilty, and completely involved inobscurity. My object is to treat of all those things which theGreeks include in the Encyclopedia,'3 which however are either•jot generally known, or are rendered dubious from our ingeniouseonceits. And there are other matters, which many writers have ""Provocatio;" calling forth. "See the authors referred to in the note in Valpy, p. 180; to which theollowing passages may be added from Tibullus:— "Et placidum soleo spargere lacte Palem." Lib. i. El. 1. 36. "Lacte madens illic suberat Pan ilicis umbra," ii. 5. 27.and an additional one from the Fasti of Ovid:— "Lac dabat ilia Deo." v. 121. ""Orbem doctrince sic Graci vocant:" note in Valpy, p. 130.