OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVVS. 267 CHAP. VII. How Crassus came into Judea, and pillaged- the temple; and. thenmarched against the Parthians, and perished, with his army.Also hffw Cassius obtained. Syria ,' and put a stop to the Par­thians, and then went up to Judea. § 1. IS ow Crassus, as he was going upon his expeditionagainst the Parthians, came into Judea, and carried off themoney that was in the temple, which Pompey had left: beingtwo thousand talents, and was disposed to spoil it of all the goldbelonging to it, which was eight thousand talents. He alsotook a beam, which was made of solid beaten gold, of the weightof three hundred minae; each of which weighed two pounds andan half. It was the priest who was guardian of the sacred trea­sures, and whose name was Elcazar, that gave him this beam,not out of a wicked design, for he was a good and a righteousman, but being intrusted with the custody of the veils belongingto the temple, which were of admirable beauty, and of verycostly workmanship, and hung down from this beam, when hesaw that Crassus was busy in gathering money, and was in fearfor the entire ornaments of the temple, he gave him this beamof gold as a ransom for the whole, but this not till he had givenhis oath that he would remove nothing else out of the temple,but be satisfied with this only, which he should give him, beingworth many ten thousand [shekels.] Now, this beam was con­tained in a wooden beam that was hollow; but was known to noothers, but Eleazar alone knew it; yet did Crassus take awaythis beam, upon the condition of touching nothing else that be­longed to the temple, and then brake his oath, and carried awayall the gold that was in the temple. 2. And let no one wonder that there was so much wealth inour temple, since all the Jews throughout the habitable earth,and those that worshipped God, nay, even those of Asia and Eu­rope, sent their contributions to it, and this from very ancienttimes. Nor is the largeness of these sums without its attesta­tion; nor is that greatness owing to our vanity, as raising itwithout ground to so great a height: But there are many wit­nesses to it, and particularly Strabo of Cappadocia, who says thus;"Mithridates sent to Cos, and took the money which queen"Cleopatra had deposited there, as also eight hundred talents"belonging to the Jews." Now, we have no public money'but only what appertains to God; and it is evident that theAsian Jews removed this money out of fear of Mithridates, forit is not probable that those of Judea, who had a strong city and VOL. JI. it 23