OCR Output 404 ODRYSAE. ODIIYSAE cannot he expected to have had many towns; andin fact we find none mentioned either by Thucydidesor Xenophon. The first of their towns recordedis Philippopolis, founded by Philip II. of Mace­donia, as there will be occasion to relate in the se­quel; and it may be presumed that all their townsof any importance were built after they had losttheir independence. The name of the Odrysac first occurs in historyin connection with the expedition of Dareius Hy-MastJis a-*ain.st the .Scythians. (Herod. I. c.)Whilst the Persians oppressed the southern {artsof Thrace, the Odrysians, protected by their moun­tain^, retained their independence; and the strengthwhich they thus acquired enabled Teres to in-corjxjrate many Thrucian tribes with his subjects.He extended his kingdom to (he Kuxine. in spite ofa signal defeat which he sustained in that quarterfrom the Thyni (Xen. Anab. vii. 2. § 22); andthe dominion of his son Sitalces embraoed thegreater part of Thrace; having been bounded on theN. by the Danube, and extending from Abderaon theW. to the Kuxine on the E. (Thucyd.ii. 96—98.)Indeed, so powerful was this monarch that his al­liance was eagerly courted both by the Atheniansand Lacedaemonians at the breaking out of thePeloponnesian War. (Thucyd. ii. '29; Herod, vii.137; Aristoph, Acham. 136—150.) The expe­dition which he undertook in b.c. 429, at the in­stance of the Athenians, and of Amyntas, pretenderto the throne of Macedonia, against Perdiccas II.,the reigning sovereign of that country, is also astriking proof of the jKjwer of the Odrysians at thatperiod ; as the army which Sitalces assembled onthat occasion amounted, on the lowest estimate, to150.000 men, of which one-third were cavalry.(Time. ii. 98; Diod. xii. 50.) For the latter force,indeed, the Odrysians were renowned, and the ex­tensive plains of the Hebrus afforded pasture foran excellent breed of horses. (Tbuc. I.e.; Polyb.xxiv. 0: Liv. xliv. 42.) With this army Sitalcesoverran Chalcidice, Anthemus, Crestonia, and Myg-donia; but the non-appearance of the Atheniancontingent, coupled with the approach of winter,obliged him hastily to retire after a month's cam­paign. In n. c. 424 Sitalces fell in an engagementwith the Triballi, and was succeeded by his nephewSeuthes I. Under his reign the Odrysians attainedthe highest pitch of their power and prosperity.Their yearly revenue amounted to 400 talents, be­sides an equal sum in the shape of presents andcontributions. (Thue. ii. 97. iv. 101.) But fromthis [>eriod the power of the Odrysians began sen­sibly to wane. After the death of Seuthes we findhis dominions divided among three sovereigns.Medocus, or Amailocus, who was most probably hisson, ruled t lie ancient seat of the monarchy; Mae-sades, brother of Medocus, reigned over the Thyni,MeUnditae, and Tranipsae; whilst the region aboveByzantium called the Delta was governed by Teres.(Xen. Anab. vii. 2. § 32, vii. 5." § 1.) It was inthe reign of Medocus that Xenophon and the TenThousand passed through Thrace on their returnfrom the Persian exjiedition. and hel]ied to rest"reSenthes, .son of the exiled Maosades, to his do­minions. We gather from this writer that Scathesexercised only a subordinate power under Medocus, jwith the title of Archon. or governor, of the Coast!(vii. 3. § 16). Subsequently, however, he appears;to have asserted his claim to an independent sove­reignty, and to have waged open war with Medocus, | til] they were reconciled and gained over to ft*Athenian alliance by Thrasyhulus. (X«i.iv. 8. § 25; I Mod. xiv. 94.) When we next barof tlie Odrysians, w-e find them enraged ia b»-tilities with tlie Athenians respecting the Tb-wuaChersonese. This was under their kir.» C<*t. 1,who reigned from B. c. 382 to 353. It m in :h»reien of the same monarch (b.c. 376) th*t tt*Tribulli invaded their territories, and pairs'i*far as Abdera. (Diod. xv. 36.) When Or*bleptes, the son and successor of Cotys, sscpdj-j t>throne, the Udrysians api«ear to hive stili mirripossession of the country us far as the ct**t "t ■>Euxiue. But a civil war soon broke out \*v**nthat monarch and Berisades and Ama^nr-, tJmwere probably his brothers, and to whom Cofys haleft some portions of his kingdom. The Atii^iwaavailed themselves of these dissensions to eaia j»*session of the Chersonese, which appears to rj-nbeen finally ceded to them in B.C. 357. (I'Mxvi. 34.) But a much more fatal i4ow u>power of the Odrysians was struck by Philip 11.'Macedon. After nine or ten years of warfare, Ptefcjat last succeeded (b. c 343) in conquexinr if^and reducing them to the condition of tribcarn(Diod. xvi, 71; Dem. de Chers. p. 105.) Iiexact nature of their relations with Philip asmbe ascertained; but that their subjurarna t.vhave been complete Appears from the tar: *A tihaving founded colonies in their territory, especuiPhilippopolis, on the right bank of the Hehnu-Uin the very heart of their ancient seat. Their *djection is further shown by the cirenmstae:* Itheir cavalry being mentioned as serving si tlarmy of Alexander under Agathon, son of Tjrnrna(Arrian, iii. 12. § 4.) But a still more d&rjuproof is, that alter Alexander's lieutenant 7.q:ythad been defeated by the Getae. the Odrysia» nincited by their king, Seuthes III., to rebel «£*jthe Macedonians. (Curt. x. 1. § 45; Ju*&c 11.) After the death of Alexander. Studies Wthe field against Ly&imachus, to whom Turn* idevolved, with an army of 20,000 foot and SIhorse, — a sad falling off from the force* i<rc*arrayed by Sitalces. (Diod. xviii. 14; P«*a k§6.) The struggle with Lysimacbus wa> ranon with varied success. Under Philip III. *i 3cedon, the Odrysians were still in a state nf r?»In ii. c. 211 that monarch assembled an am* nthe ostensible design of marching to the nenjByzantium, but in reality to overawe the ni-k'dchieftains of Thrace. (Liv. xxxix. 35.) In 1we find Philip undertaking an expe*litMithe Odrysians, Dentheletae, and Bessi. He Iceeded in taking Philippopolis, which tbr inidants deserted at his approach, and where h* «hlished a garrison, which was expelled short}? ihis departure. (Liv. xxxix. 53; Polyb. £r Jxlviii.) It may be assumed from Livy thatoccasion the Odrysians were supported ib ll'-Jvolt by the Romans (xlii. 19, xlv. 4'2). Afarfall of the Macedonian kingdom, the Odrysswpear to have been treated with conaider&i: ethe Romans, who employed them as useftJ iagainst the newly-eonqaered districts, as «elagainst the other Thracian tribes; amongst *the Bes-si had now raised themselves to sk. •portance. After this period the history *Odrysians is for some time involved in <ir#f1though they were doubtless gradually fall'&f Iand more under the KomaD dominion, la th*