OCR Output Gn*r. 42. ROSTA'flF BISTORT. . 263 ^ • . / ofie. For so prevalent had the influence of his col­leagues in the decemvirate been on Fabius, who former­ly had acted with great propriety, Jioth in peace and inwar,. that he now thought it a greater honour to bethought like Appius, than like his former self. He hadthe management of the Sabine war assigned him, inwhich commission,.Man. Rabnleius, andQ. Pcutilius werejoined. M. Cornelius was sent to the Algidus, with L.Miiuicius, T. Antonius, CIESO Duilius, and M. Sergius.Sp. Oppius was appointed- to assist Appius in defending,the city ; and for that purpose, they were left equally in­vested with the whole extent of decemviral authority. CHAP. XLH. Ill conduct of the Roman armies. JL HE republic suffered no less by mismanagementabroad, than at home. The generals were indeed no-­otherwise to blame, than in having rendered themselvesodious to the citizens:, for,. in all other respects, the sol­diers were totally culpable. For, that nothing. mightsucceed under the direction and management of the de­cemvirs, they suffered themselves to be beat, to theirown disgrace, and that of their commanders. Theirarmies were routed by the Sabines at Eretum, and bythe /Equi at the Algid us. The army at Eretum tookthe opportunity of the darkness of night, to make theirescape to a rising. ground- nearer, the city,, betweenFidenae and Crustumeria,. where they, immediately threwup entrenchment?. Thither, the enemy pursued them,but could never bring them to a battle on fair ground, asthey chose rather to trust to their situation and ramparts,than to their valour and arms.. The army at the Algidus behaved still worse, and inconsequence received a more terrible overthrow: for,having lost their camp, and deprived of all their militaryaccoutrements, they made the best of their way to Tus-culum, trusting for subsistence and protection to thefidelity and generosity. of their allies, in which they wereby no means disappointed. Rome was so alarmed withjthese dreadful accounts, that the senators, without mind,-­