OCR Output 442 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. V that, either by their own inclination, or outof necessity betray it; but to become suchsons as are worthy of me, to be above allforce and necessity; and so to dispose yoursouls as to be ready, when it shall be neces­sary, to die for your laws, as sensible of thisby just reasoning; that if God see that youare disposed, he will not overlook you, butwill have a great value for your virtue; andwill restore to you again what you have lost,and will return to you that freedom in whichyou shall live quietly, and enjoy your owncustoms. Your bodies are mortal and sub­ject to fate; but they receive a sort of im­mortality by the remembrance of what ac­tions they have done. And I would haveyou so in love with this immortality, that youmay pursue after glory; and that, when youhave undergone the greatest difficulties, youmay not scruple for such things, to lose yourlives. I exhort you especially to agree onewith another; and in what excellence anyone of you exceeds another, to yield to himso far; and by that means to reap the advan­tage of every one's own virtues. Do youthen esteem Simon as your father; becausehe is a man of extraordinary prudence; andbe governed by him, in what counsels hegives you. Take Maccabeus for the generalof your army; because of his courage andstrength. For he will avenge your nation,and will bring vengeance on your enemies.Admit among you the righteous and religious,and augment their power." When Mattathias had thus discoursed tohis sons, and had prayed to God to be theirassistant, and to recover to the people theirformer constitution; he died a little after­ward; and was buried at Modin; all thepeople making great lamentation for him.His son Judas then took upon him the ad­ministration of public affairs; in the hundredand forty-sixth year.* And thus by the ready * 1 Mace. ii. 70. t This, in all probability, was the same Apolloniuswhom Antiochus sent at first to plunder Jerusalem, andafterwards to set up the statue of Jupiter Olympius, andto compel the Jews to relinquish their religion. Calmet'sCommentary. B. t 1 Mace. iii. 12. II At this time Jerusalem was in the hands of the Hea­thens, and the sanctuary trodden under foot; so that Judascould not assemble his men there, to implore the assist­ance of God in this time of imminent danger; and there- assistance of his brethren, and of others,Judas cast their enemies out of the country;and put those of their own country to deathwho had transgressed its laws; and purifiedthe land of all the pollutions that were in it. CHAP. VII. OF THE SUCCESSES OF THE JEWISH ARMS UNDER JUDASMACCABEUS J AND THE PURIFICATION OF THE TEMPLE. WHEN Apollonius,f the general of theSamaritan forces, heard this, he tookhis army and hastened to go against Judas.But having joined battle, he was defeatedand slain by Judas, who seized upon hissword, and kept it for himself, as a trophy ofvictory.J The number of Apollonius's armythat were slain, was also very great; that ofthe wounded was still more considerable;and the victors took a great deal of prey.But when Seron, who was general of thearmy of Coelesyria, heard that many hadjoined themselves to Judas; and that he hadabout him an army sufficient for making war,he determined to make an expedition againsthim; as thinking it became him to endeavourto punish those that transgressed the king'sinjunctions. He then got together an army.||as large as he was able, and joined it to therunagate and wicked Jews, and came as faras Beth-horon, a village of Judea, and therepitched his camp. Judas met him, and re­solved to give him battle; but as his soldierswere backward to fight, because their numberwas small, and because they wanted food,for they were fasting; he encouraged them,and reminded them, that victory and con­quests of enemies are not derived from themultitude in armies, but in the exercise ofpiety towards God; and that they had theplainest instances in their forefathers; whoby their righteousness, and exerting them­selves on behalf of their own laws, and their fore he repaired to Mizpeh, a place where the peopleoftentimes used to assemble to prayer, Judges xx. 1.1 Kings xv. 22. 2 Chron. xvi. 6. Here he and all hisarmy addressed themselves to God, in solemn fasting andprayer, for his assistance and protection: and herein heacted the part of a wise and religious commander, asknowing that the battle was the Lord's, and that thereforeit would be impious to begin any such enterprise, withoutfirst imploring the divine aid. Prideaux,s Connection,anno 166. 6.