OCR Output PELIUM. FELLA. 569 or a afagtareous past for making excursionsi.u tit oror'j territory. [ E. B. J ] rCllUH (ffl>Aie»), m lofty mountain in Thessaly,ansae "h"! the coast of Magnesia. It rues to■■ oati of Osu, and the last falls of the two. r'Ma ire coioected by a low ridge. (Herod,n IJJ,) It forms a chain of some extent, stretch-v 'ros Ml Ossa to the extremity of Magnesia,*fcnt it terminates in the promontories of Sepias■1 AMntimm. It attains its greatest height abovel*m Aronlin; to Ovid it is lower than Ossa(>"t m. 441), which Dodwell describes as aboutfeet hiffh. In form it has a brood and ex­it i<d ratline, and is well contrasted with the»w ttnieal shape of Ossa. On its easternt> Ml Peliuro rises almost precipitously from * and its rocky and inhospitable shore|art oxiauot rh|A(ov, Eurip. Ale. 595) proved ts tk» fleet of Xerxes. ( Leake, Northern Greece, * t. (i 384.) Ml Pelium is still covered with ve-isvle fvartx, to which frequent allusion is madea u» itdmt poets. Uomer constantly gives it the■Ax of urtxrHmkXov (II. ii. 744, &c). ItsaVawiaammit is clothed with oaks, and its easternOr tresis with chestnuts; besides which thererri-^rj <£ beeches, elms, and pines. (Dicaearch.»«nr* MmL PtL in Geogr. Graee. Min. n. 106,Ihra, 1855; Or. fast v. 381; Valer. Flacc.I«> a. y.-brrn is celebrated in mythology. It playsin man part in the war of the giants and the * ante the giants are said to have piled Ossak I'eiram. in order to scale Olympus. It has been■n«4 last this part of the fable is well explainedit' r-sarcni* forma of Ossa and Pelium. As Pe­te • nrvad from the south, two summits are seen 6' mjerable distance from each other,—a con-• btreea them, bat so slight as almost to give'"*'■« a table-mountain, upon which fiction» isatDv soppose that another hill of the./Ossa should recline. (Holland. Tra-l*4.ka.M.) Mt. Pelium was said to he the * * at tl.e Centaurs, and more especially of tie instructor of Achilles, a legend to■ us rather of medicinal plants found on the*>"> prrbaps gave rise. (Dicaearch. L c.; Horn.I 'O. XTi. 143; Find. Pyth. ii. 83, iii. 7;t &•"».«.«.) ••tag to Dicaearch us (i c), the cave ofv~ *j| i temple of Zeus Actaeus occupied thett 4 the mountain. The same writer relatesi the custom of the sons of the principal * rf Dttnetrias. selected by the priest, toHrwry year to this temple, clothed with thickI * aomnrt of the cold, between the two■* af Ml Pelium there is a fine cavern, nowM* am by the name of the cave of Achilles, astaroa with the position of the rave of■L sssfjeasd bv Dicaearchus. The same•UrnKfpeaks of two rivers of Mt. Pelium, K' :r i Hr\<!|..Il. tine of them * *nad Zemkkia, and falls into the gulfX'tkiri and St. Georye. ( Leake. Northern |*i *i iv. p. 384, seq.) Lastly, Pelium<Bxi with the Ule of the Argonauts,tester of which their ship was built was« the forests of this mountain. Theut» ranrnit of Mt. l'eliain is now named.' bat the mountain is frequently calledha the town of this name immediately■aanut on the eastern side. (Leake, /. c.; Mrfzieres, ifemoire sur le Pelion et VOssa, Paris,1853.) PELLA (n.'AAo, Herod, vii. 123; Time. ii. 99,100; Strab. vii. pp. 320, 323, 330, Fr. 22, 23:Ptol. iii. 13. § 39, viii. 12. § 8; Plin. iv. 17; //in.Anton.; Itin. Ilierosol.; Petit. Tab.; MWr\,Hierocles), the capital of Macedonia. At the timewhen Xerxes passed through Macedon, Pella, whichHerodotus (/. c.) calls a woMxvtov, was in thehands of the Bottiaeans. Philip was the first tmake Pella, which Amyntas had been obliged toevacuate (Xen. Ilellen. v. 2. § 13; comp. Diodor.xiv. 92, xv. 19), a place of importance (Dem. <feCor. p. 247), and fixed the royal residence there:there was a navigation from the sea by the Lydias,though the marshes, which was 120 stadia in length,exclusive of the Lydias. (Scyl. p. 26.) Thesemarshes were called Borboros (BdpSopot), as ap­pears from an epigram (Theocrit. Chius, ap. Phil,de Exit. vol. viii. p. 380, ed. Iieiske), in which Ari­stotle is reproached for preferring a residence nearthem to that of the Academy. Archestratus (ap.Athen. vii. p. 328, a.) related that the lake pro­duced a fish called "chromis," of great size, andparticularly fat in summer. From its position on ahill surrounded by waters, the metropolis of Philip,and the birthplace of Alexander (Juv. x. 168;Lucan, x. 20), soon grew into a considerable city.Had Alexander not been estranged from Macedonia,it would probably have attained greater importance.Antipater lived there as regent of Macedonia, butCassander spent less of his time at Pella, than at.Thessalonica and Cassandreia; from the time ofAntigonus Gonatas till that of Perseu9, a period ofnearly a century, Pella remained the capital, and wasa splendid town. (Liv. xxvi. 25, xxxvii. 7, xfii.41, 51, 67, xliii. 43, xliv. 10.) Livy (xliv. 46) lrnsleft the following description, derived undoubtedlyfrom Polybius, of the construction of the citytowards the lake. "Pella stands upon a heightsloping to the SW., and is bounded by marsheswhich are impassable both in winter and summer,and are caused by the overflowing of a lake. Thecitadel" (the word " arx" is wanting in our copies ofLivy, but seems absolutely necessary both to thesense and the grammar) " rises like an island fromthe part of the marsh nearest to the city, beingbuilt upon an immense embankment, which defies allinjury from the waters; though appearing at adistance to be united to the wall of the city, it is inreality separated from it by a wet ditch, over whichthere is a bridge, so that no access whatever isafforded to an enemy, nor can any prisoner whom theking may confine in the castle escape, but by theeasily guarded bridge. In the fortress was the royaltreasure." It was surrendered to Aemilius Paulina(Liv. xlv. 45), and became, according to Strab)(p. 323) and the Itineraries, a station on theEgnatian Way, and a colony. (Plin. Ic.) DionChrysostomus (Oral. Tart. Prior, vol. ii. p. 12. ed.Reiske) says that Pella was a heap of ruins; butfrom the fact that there are coins of the colony ofPella, ranging from Hadrian to Philip, this must bean exaggeration. The name of the city is found aslate as the sixth century of our era, as it occurs inHierocles. It would seem indeed as if the namehad survived the ruins of the city, and had revertedto the fountain, to which it was originally attached;as at a small distance from the village namedSeokh&ri or Yenikiuy, which has been identifiedwith a portion of the ancient Pella, there is a spring