OCR Output Chap. I. 35 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK XVIII. Containing the interval of thirty-two years. [From the banishment of Archelaus, to the departure of theJews from Babylon.] CHAP. I./ Mow Cyrenius was sent by Ccesar to make a taxation of Syria andJudea ; and how Coponius was sent to be procurator of Judea ;concerning Judas of Galilee, and concerning the sects that wereamong the Jews. ( I. 'VTOW, Cyrenius, a Roman senator, and one who hadgone through other magistracies, and had passed throughthem till he had been consul, and ope who, on other accounts,was of great dignity, came at this time into Syria, with a few-others, being sent by Caesar to be a judge of that nation, and totake an account of their substance : Coponius also, a man of theequestrian order, was sent together with him, to have the su­preme power over the Jews. Moreover, Cyrenius came him­self into Judea, which was now added to the province of Syria,to take an account of their substance, and to dispose of Ar"he-laus's money : but the Jews, although, at the beginning, theytook the report of a taxation heinously, yet did they leave offany farther opposition to it, by the persuasion of Joazar, whowas the son of Eoethus, and high-priest; so they being overpersuaded by Joazar's words, gave an account of their estates,without any dispute about it. Yet was there one Judas *, a Gaulonite, * Since St Luke, once, Acts v. 37. and Josephus four several times, once here,§ 6. and B. XX. ch. v..$ 2. Of the War, R. II. ch. viii. $ 1. and ch. xvii. S S. callsthis Judas, who was the pestilent author of that seditious doctrine and temper'which brought the Jewish nation to ntter destruction, a Galilean, but here § 1.Josephus calls him a Gaulonite, of the city of Gamali. It is a great questionwhere this Judas was born, whether in Galilee on the west side, or in Gaulonitis,*n the east side of the river Jordan; while, in the place just now cited out of theAntiquities, B. XX. ch. v. § 2. he is not only called a Galilean, but it is addedto his story, as I have signified in the books that go befirt these, as if he hadstill called him a Galilean in those Antiquities before, as well as in that particu­lar place, as Dean Aldrich observes, On the War, B. II. ch. viii. § 1. Nor canone well imagine why he should here call him a Gaulonite, when in the 6th sect,following here, as well as twice Of the War, he still calls him a Galilean. Asfor the city of Gamala, whence this !udas was derived, it determines nothing-,since there were two of that name, the one in Gaulonitis, the other in Galilee.See Reland on the city or town of that name.