OCR Output ;8 THE DECLINE AND FALL consent had been secured by an immense donative, the new Cæsar **was ravistied from hie embraces by an untimely death. He leftonly one son. Hadrian commended the boy to the gratitude of theAntonines. He was adopted by Pius; and, on the accession ofMarcus, was invested with an equal share of sovereign power.Among the many vices of this younger Verus, he possessed onevirtue; a dutiful reverence for his wiser colleague, to whom hewillingly abandoned the ruder cares of empire. The philosophicemperor dissembled his follies, lamented his early death, and cast adecent veil over his memory.Adoption of As soon as Hadrian's passion was either gratified or disappointed,tonines. he resolved to deserve the thanks of posterity, by placing the mostexalted merit on the Roman throne. His discerning eye easilydiscovered a senator about fifty years of age, blameless in all theoffices of life, and a youth of about seventeen, whose riper yearsopened the fair prospect of every virtue: the elder of these wasdeclared the son and successor of Hadrian, on condition, howevef,that he himself should immediately adopt the younger. The twoAntonines (for it is of them that we are now speaking) governed theA.D. 138— Roman world forty-two years, with the fame invariable spirit ofwisdom and virtue. Although Pius had two sons41, he preferredthe welfare of Rome to the interest of his family, gave his daughterFaustina in marriage to young Marcus, obtained from the senatethe tribunitian and proconsular powers, and with a noble disdain1,or rather ignorance of jealousy, associated him to all the labours ofgovernment. Marcus, On the other hand, revered the character ofhis benefactor, loVed him as a parent, obeyed him as his sove­reign 45, and after he was no more, regulated his own administra­tion by the example and maxims of his predecessor. Their unitedreigns are possibly the only period of history in which the happinessof a great people was the sole object of government. 7 Titus