OCR Output nO DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI1I the Romans, by the vague reports of the fleets and ar­mies which were hastening to their relief from the extre­mities of the east. They derived more rational comfortfrom the assurance that Belisarius had landed at theport; and, without numbering his forces, they firmlyrelied on the humanity, the courage, and the skill oftheir great deliverer.Attempt of The foresight of Totila had raised obstacles worthyiu. q£ suci1 gn antagonist. Ninety furlongs below the city,in the narrowest part of the river, he joined the two banksby strong and solid timbers in the form of a bridge; onwhich he erected two lofty towers, manned by the bravestof his Goths, and profusely stored with missile weaponsand engines of offence. The approach of the bridge andtowers was covered by a strong and massy chain of iron;and the .chain, at either end, on the opposite side of theTiber, Was defended by a numerous and chosen detach­ment of archers. But the enterprise of forcing thesebarriers, and relieving the capital, displays a shining ex­ample of the boldness and conduct of Belisarius. Hiscavalry advanced from the port along the public road,to awe the motions and distract the attention of theenemy. His infantry and provisions were distributed intwo hundred large boats; and each boat was shielded bya high rampart of thick planks, pierced with many smallholes for the discharge of missile weapons. In the front,two large vessels were linked together to sustain a float­ing castle, which commanded the towers of the bridge,and contained a magazine of fire, sulphur, and bitumen.The whole fleet, which the general led in person, waslaboriously moved against the current of the river. Thechain yielded to their weight, and the enemies whoguarded the banks were either slain or scattered. Assoon as they touched the principal barrier, the fire-shipwas instantly grappled to the bridge; one of the towers,with two hundred Goths, was consumed by the flames;the assailants shouted the victory; and Rome was saved,