OCR Output Chap. XXVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 331 I and in what disposition the father was towards each of them, heChose to take his lodging at the first in the house of Antipater,but deluded Alexander with a pretence of friendship to him, andfalsely claimed to be an old acquaintance of Archelaus; for whichreason he was presently admitted into Alexander's familiarityas a fathful friend. He also soon recommended himself to hisbrother Aristobulus. And when he had thus made trial of theseseveral persons, he imposed upon one of them by one method,and upon another by another. But he was principally hired byAntipater, and so betrayed Alexander, and this by reproachingAntipater, because, while he was the eldest son, he overlookedthe intrigues of those who stood in the way of his expectations;and by reproaching Alexander, because he who was born of aqueen, and was married to a king's daughter, permitted one thatwas born of a mean woman to lay claim to the succession, andthis when he had Archelaus to support him in the most completemanner. Nor was his advice thought to be other than faithfulby the young man, because of his pretended friendship with Ar足chelaus: on which account it was that Alexander lamented tohim Antipater's behaviour with regard to himself, and this with足out concealing any thing from him; and how it was no wonderif Herod, after he had killed their mother, should deprive themof her kingdom. Upon this Eurycles pretended to commiser足ate his condition, and to grieve with him. He also, by a baitthat he laid for him,procured Aristobulus tosay thesame things.Thus did he inveigle both the brothers to make complaints oftheir father, and then went to Antipater, and carried these grandsecrets to him. He also added a fiction of his own, as if hisbrothers had laid a plot against him, and were almost ready tocome upon him with their drawn swords. For this intelligencehe received a great sum of money, and on that account he com足mended Antipater before his father, and at length undertook thework of bringing Alexander and Aristobulus to their graves,and accused them before their father. So he came to Herod andtold him, That " he would save his life, as a requital for the" favours he had received from him, and would preserve his"light [of life] by wayof retribution for his kind entertainment:a for that a sword had been long whetted,and Alexander's right" hand had been long stretched out against him; but that he had" laid impediments in his way, prevented his speed, and that bv" pretending to assist him in his design: how Alexander said," that Herod was not contented to reign in a kingdom that be-" longed to others, and to make delapidations in their mother's" government, after he had killed her; but besides all this, that" he introduced a spurious successor, and proposed to give the T t 2 " kingdom