OCR Output Chip. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 215 was said at any rate—Saturninus as king or general; on theday when the new tribunes of the people had to enter ontheir office, the 10th of December 654, a battle took place loo.in the great market-place—the first which had ever beenfought within the walls of the capital. The issue was notfor a moment doubtful. The Populares were beaten anddriven up to the Capitol, where the supply of water and over-was cut off from them and they were thus compelled to powered.surrender. Marius, who held the chief command, wouldgladly have saved the life of his former allies who were nowhis prisoners; Saturninus exclaimed to the multitude, thatall which he had proposed had been done in concert withthe consul: even a worse man than Marius was could notbut shudder at the inglorious part which he played on thisday. But he had long ceased to be master of affairs. With­out orders the young nobles climbed the roof of the senate-house in the Forum where the prisoners were temporarilyconfined, stripped off the tiles, and stoned the prisonerswith them. Thus Saturninus perished with most of themore notable prisoners. Glaucia was found in a lurking-place, and likewise put to death. Without sentence ortrial there died on this day four magistrates of the Romanpeople—a praetor, a quaestor, and two tribunes of the people—and a number of other well-known men, some of whombelonged to good families. In spite of the grave faults,by which the chiefs had invited on themselves this bloody-retribution, we may nevertheless lament them: they felllike advanced posts, which are left unsupported by the mainarmy and are forced to perish without object in a conflict ofdespair. Never had the government party achieved a more com- Ascendancyplete victory, never had the opposition suffered a more severe of the F>-defeat, than on this tenth of December. It was the least Ternment-part of the success, that they had got rid of some trouble­some brawlers whose places might be supplied any day byassociates of a like stamp; it was of greater moment, thatthe only man, who was then in a position to become danger­ous to the government, had publicly and completely effectedhis own annihilation; and most important of all, that thetwo elements of the opposition—the capitalist order andthe proletariate—emerged from the strife wholly at variance.It is true that this was not the work of the government;the fabric which had been put together by the adroit hands