OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 43 an independent and increasing state in the heart of the Romanempire. I. We have already described the religious harmony of the ancient The Firstworld, and the facility with which the most different and even hos- Zealof'thetile nations embraced, or at least respected, each other's superstitions. ^ews'A single people refused to join in the common intercourse of man­kind. The Jews, who, under the Assyrian and Persian monarchies,had languished for many ages the most despised portion of theirslaves emerged from'obscurity under the successors of Alexander;and as they multiplied to a surprising degree in the-East, and after­wards in the West, they soon excited the curiosity and wonderof other nations \ The sullen obstinacy with which they main­tained their peculiar rites and unsocial manners, seemed to markthem out a distinct species of men who boldly professed, or whofaintly disguised, their implacable hatred to the rest of human-kindNeither the violence of Antiochus, nor the arts of Herod, nor theexample of the circumjacent nations, could ever persuade the Jewsto associate with the institutions of Moses the elegant mythology'of the Greeks+. According to the maxims of universal toleration,the Romans protected a superstition which they despiseds. Thepolite Augustus condescended to give orders, that sacrifices shouldbe offered for his prosperity in the temple of Jerusalem6; whilethe meanest of the posterity of Abraham, who should have paid thesame homage to the Jupiter of the capitol, would have been anobject of abhorrence to himself and to his brethren. The mode­ration of the conquerors was insufficient to appease the jealous pre­judices of their subjects, who were alarmed and scandalized at theensigns of paganism, which necessarily introduced themselves intoa Roman province 7. The mad attempt of Caligula to place hisown statue in the temple of Jerusalem, was defeated by the unani­mous resolution of a people who dreaded death much less than suchan idolatrous profanation 8. Their attachment to the law of Moses M m m 2 was