OCR Output Chap. XXXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3-4T; father ground for an ill suspicion, and give an handle to thosethat raised stories against him; for that in case any thing had .beenmovedtohisdisadvantage,itwasowing to hisabsence,whichdurst not have been done had he been present. And they said,it was absurd to deprive himself of certain happiness, for thesake of an uncertain suspicion, and not rather to return to hisfather, and take the royal authority upon him, which was ina state of fluctuation on his account only. Antipater compli­ed with this last advice, for Providence hurried him on [to hisdestruction]. 80 he passed over the sea, and landed at Sebas-tus, the haven of Cesarea. . 4. And here he found a perfect and unexpected solitude, whileevery body avoided him, and no body durst come at him; forhe was equally hated by all men; and now that hatred hadliberty to shew itself, and the dread men were in at the king'sanger made men keep from him; for the whole city [of Jerusa­lem] was filled with the rumours about Antipater, and Anti-pater himself was the only person who was ignorant of them;for as no man was dismissed more magnificently when he beganhis voyage to Rome, so was no man now received back withgreater ignominy. And indeed he began already to suspectwhat misfortunes there were in Herod's family; yet did he cun­ningly conceal his suspicion; and while he was inwardly ready.to die for fear, he put on a forced boldness of countenance. Norcould he now fly any whither, nor had he any way of emerg­ing out of the difficulties which encompassed him; nor indeedhad he even there any certain intelligence of the affairs of theroyal family, by reason of the threats the king had given out:yet had he some small hopes of better tidings; for perhaps no-­thing had been discovered; or, if any discovery had been made,perhaps he should be able to clear himself by impudence, andartful tricks, which were the only things he relied upon for hisdeliverance. / 5. And with these hopes did he screen himself, till he cameto the palace, without any friends with him; for these wereaffronted, and shutout at the first gate. Now Varus, the pre­sident of Syria, happened to be in the palace [at this juncture]:'sp Antipater went in to his father, and, putting on a bold face,he came near to salute him; but Herod stretched out his hands,and turned his head away from him, and cried out, "Even this" is an indication of a parricide, to be desirous to g-:t me intoM his arms, when he is under such heinous accusations. God" confound thee, thou vile wretch, do not thou touch me, till" thou hast cleared thyself of these crimes that are charged uportff thee. J appoint thee a court where thou art to be judged, and X x 2 " this