OCR Output Chap. XV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 401 that were ascending from Cesarea, whence two cohorts werecoming; and while these men were exhorting the multitude soto do, he sent before-hand, and gave directions to the centurionsof the cohorts, that they should give notice to those that wereunder them, not to return the Jews' salutations, and that if theymade any reply to his disadvantage, they should make use oftheir weapons. Now the high-priests assembled the multitudein the temple, and desired them to go and meet the Romans, andto salute the cohorts very civilly, before their miserable caseshould become incurable. Now the seditious part would notcomply with these persuasions, but the consideration of thosethat had been destroyed made them incline to those that werethe boldest for action. 4. At this time it was that every priest, and every servant ofGod, brought out the holy vessels, and the ornamental garmentswherein they used to minister in sacred things. The harpersalso, and the singers of hymns, came out with their instrumentsof music, and fell down before the multitude, and begged ofthem that they would preserve those holy ornaments to them,and not provoke the Romans to carry off those sacred treasures.You might also see then the high-priests themselves, with dustsprinkled in great plenty upon their heads, with bosoms depri­ved of any covering, but what was rent; these besought everyone of the eminent men by name, and the multitude in com-mon, that they would not for a small offence betray their coun­try to those that were desirous to have it laid waste ; saying," What benefit will it bring to the soldiers to have a saluta-" tion from the Jews? or what amendmenlfof your affairs will" it bring you, if you do not now go out to meet them ? and" that if they saluted them civilly, all handle would be cut off" from Florus to begin a war; that they should thereby gain" their country, and freedom from all farther sufferings ; and" that, besides, it would be a sign of great want of command of" themselves, if they should yield to a few seditious persons," while it was fitter for them who were so great a people, to" force the others to act soberly." 5. By these persuasions, which they used to the multitude,and to the seditious, they restrained some by threatenings, andothers by the reverence that was paid them. After this theyled them out, and they met the soldiers quietly, and aftera composed manner, and when they were come up with them, ,they saluted them, but when they made no answer, the se­ditious exclaimed against Florus, which was the signal givenfor falling upon them. The soldiers therefore encompassedthem presently, and struck them With their clubs, and asVOL. III. 3 E ' the/