OCR Output 23o THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIL wards and gliding along the sides of their veflels, andfrom these close positions aiming their darts at the ma­riners. In fine, the Syraeusans, persevering in thismanner to gall their foes, were masters of the day,whilst the Athenians, being put to flight, were obligedto retire, through the intervals of the line of transports,into their own station. The Syracusan ships pursued asfar as to this line of transports; but were obliged tostop there, for fear of the * machines which hung uponthe yards of the transports to bar all approach. Twoships, indeed, of the Syraeusans, elevated with success,approached too near, and were funk j and another,with all her crew, was taken by the enemy. And nowthe Syraeusans, who in the action had funk seven shipsof the enemy, had damaged many, had taken manyprisoners, and made great slaughter, judged it properto retire. They then erected trophies as victorious intwo engagements, and plumed themselves in the assu­rance, that, by sea, they had the superiority over theenemy $ presuming, at the same time, that they mustsoon be victorious also by land: upon which they gotevery thing in readiness to attack them once more oaboth elements. But, at this crisis, Demosthenes and Eurymedort ar­rive, at the head of the reinforcement from Athens;which consisted, of seventy-three sail of ships, inclu­ding foreigners of about five thousand heavy-armedof their own and their confederate troops; beside aconsiderable number of darters, as well Barbarian mprecian, and stingers, and archers, and a Completesupply of all military stores. The first appearance ofthis grand reinforcement struck the Syraeusans arid theirallies with no small consternation. It looked as if thewar must be endless, and themselves exposed to dan­gers that knew no bounds. They saw that, in spite of W Called dolphins, from their form. They were massy, made of lead, and bongupon the sail-yards by cords and pulleys; and, when thrown into the entity's IhipSieither burst or funk them. the