OCR Output VIA CIJIIN1A. VIA EGNATIA 1297 The Via Cassia branched off from the Via Fla-minsa jtut after crossing the Tiber by the Milvianilridge, 3 miles from Borne. It then ascended thetable-land, and proceeded over a dreary and mono­tonous plain to Baccanae (Baccano), situated in theUa*in or crater of an extinct volcano. Two inter­mediate small stations are given in tbe Tabala:Ad Sextnm, which, as its name imports, was sitnated5 miles from Borne, and tberefure 3 from the PonsMiiviiu -t and Veii, 6 miles farther: but it is pro-kable that the ancient Via Cassia, like the modernhighroad, passed by, but not through, the ancient:sty ; so that the station indicated was probably that■There the road turned off to Veii, near the ItolaF"armese. The Via Clodia separated from the Cassiasbout 3 miles beyond the station Ad Seztum, and.truck off through Careiae (Gulera) and Sabate[ /Sracciano) to Forum Clodii. The Tabula againcirca an intermediate station, between Sutrium andKorum Cassii, called Vicus Matrini, the ruins of« bich are still risible 7 miles beyond Sutri; andhat at the Aquae Passeris, now called the Bagni diSrrpa, 12 miles beyond Forum Cassii. The stationsrireii in that document can thus be identified as faris Clusium. They are :—Ad Seztum Veii (near I tola Farntte)Baccanae ( Baccuno) -Sutrium {Sutri)Vicus Matrini VI. at. P. vi.ix. ziL(omitted, butshould be vii.) Forum Cassii ( Vetralla)Aquae Passeris (Bagni di Strpa) zi.Volsinii (Boitena) iz.Ad Palliam Fluvium (R. Paglia) —Clusium (Chiuti) - - iz.tut from Clusinm to Florentia the names of therations are wholly unknown, and cannot be identi-*d. with tbe exception of Arretium; and the entireoute is given in so confused a manner that it is to make anything of it.Liry tells us that C. Flaminius, the colleague ofil. Aemilius Lepidus in B.c. 187, after having effec-ually reduced the Ligurian tribes that had infestedlie territory of Bononia, conducted a road fromioaonia, to Arretium (Lir. zzxiz. 2). But it is re-larkable that we never hear anything more of this,ne of road, which would seem to have fallen intoisuse; though this pass across the Apennines,rhich is still traversed by the modem highroad from■ t>rrmce to Bologna, is one of the easiest of all.'icero indeed might be thought to allude to thisiute when he speaks of proceeding into Cisalpine■aval by the Via Cassia (1 c); but the absence ofnr allusion to its existence during the militarycjt rations st that period, or on any other occasion,reins to prove conclusively that it had not continued:i use as s military highway. (For a careful examination and description of thenrtion of the Via Cassia near Borne, see Westphal,w>«a. Kamp. pp. 147—153; Nibby, Vie degli An-uM, pp. 75-82.) [E. H. B.] VIA CIMIN1A, a name known only from an in-triplica of the time of Hadrian (Orell. Inter. 3306),ras probably a short cut constructed across the rangeI the Ciminian hills, leaving the Via Cassia to the■ft, avrxl following nearly the same line as theK«lern road over the same hills. (Hulsten. Not.d Cta*. p. 67.) [Cimctos Mom.] [E. H. B.] VIA CLODIA, was tbe name of a highroad that.-inched off from the Via Cassia, to the left, about VOL- II. 10 miles from Rome, near the inn of La Slorta,where remains of the ancient pavement, indicat­ing its direction, may still be seen. The name ofthe Via Clodia is known to us only from the Itine­raries, and from inscriptions of imperial date (Orell.Inter. 822, 3143); but from the form of the namethere can be no doubt that it dates from the repub­lican period, though we have no account when or bywhom this line of road was constructed. The Itine­raries indeed seem to have regarded the Via Clodiaas the main line, of which the Via Cassia was onlya branch, or rather altogether confounded the two;but it is evident from the passage of Cicero abovequoted, that the Via Cassia was, properly speaking,the main line, and the Clodia merely a branchof it At the same time, the occurrence of a ForumClodii on tbe one branch, as well as a Forum Cassiion the other, leave no doubt which were the true linesdesignated by these names. The course of the ViaClodia as far as Sabate (Braeciano) admits of nodoubt, though the distances given in the Tabula arecorrupt and uncertain ; but the position of ForumClodii is uncertain, and the continuation of tho lineis very obscure. It appears indeed to have held acourse nearly parallel with that of the Via Cassia,through Blera, Tuscania, and Saturnia; but fromthe latter place the Tabula represents it as proceed­ing to Succosa (Sub Cusa), which would be an ab­rupt tum at right angles, and could never have beentbe direction of tbe principal line of road. It isprobable that this was either carried up the valleyof the Ombrone to Siena (Sena Julia), or proceededacross the marshy plains of that river to join the ViaAurelia. But this is mere conjecture. The stations,as given in the Tabula (the only one of the Itinera­ries in which the true Via Clodia is found), are asfollow :— From Home to Ad Sextnm - vi. at. P. Careiae (Calera) - ix.Ad Novas - - viiiSabate ( Braeciano) —Forum Clodii - —Blera (Bieda) - zvi. (?)Marts (Ad Msrtam H.) ix.Tuscania (TotcaneUa) —Matemum (I'arnete?) xii.Saturnia (Saturnia) xviii.The Antonine Itinerary, without giving the routein detail, says simply — A Roma Foro Clodii. si. p. xxxii.If this distance be correct, Forum Clodii must beplaced either at or a little beyond Oriuvlo, which is6 miles beyond Sabate (Braeciano). The distanceof Oriuolo from Home by the line of the Via Clodia(as measured on tiell's map), somewhat exceeds 31miles. But tbe distance from Blera must, in th.itcase, be greatly overstated; the actual distance fn>inOriuolo to Bieda being scarcely more than 10 miles.(Westphal, Rom. Kampagne, pp. 154—158; Den­nis's itruria, vol. i. p. 273: but the distancesthere cited, in the note from the Tabula, are in­correct.) [ K. H. U.]VIA DOMITIAXA. [Via Appia, No. 1.]VIA EGNA'TIA (4 'Ewot.o itoi, Strab. vii.p. 322, seq.), a Roman military road, which connectedUlyria, Macedonia, and Thrace. We are almosttotally in the dark with regard to the origin of thisroad. The assumption tbsl it was constructed by ■certain person named E^nalius, who was likewisethe founder of tho town Egnatia, or Gnatia, betweenon the coast of Apulia, is4 o