OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 39 "of all the provinces which you unjustly withhold chap."from their lawful sovereign." A nation of two XXXIV-hundred thousand soldiers might have smiled at thevain menace of Justinian and his lieutenant; but aspirit of discord and disaffection prevailed in Italy,and the Goths supported, with reluctance, the in­dignity of a female reign *. The birth of Amalasontha, the regent and queen Governmentof Italy t, united the two most illustrious families of Amail"n-the Barbarians. Her mother, the sister of Clovis, *";Aueen ''of Italy, was descended from the long-haired kings of theAD-&22Merovingian race; and the regal succession of theAmali was illustrated, in the eleventh generation, byher father, the great Theodoric, whose merit mighthave ennobled a plebeian origin. The sex of hisdaughter excluded her from the Gothic throne; buthis vigilant tenderness for his family and his peoplediscovered the last heir of the royal line, whose an­cestors had taken refuge in Spain; and the fortunateEutharic was suddenly exalted to the rank of a con­sul and a prince. He enjoyed only a short time thecharms of Amalasontha, and the hopes of the succes­sion; and his widow, after the death of her husbandand father, was left the guardian of her son Atha-laric, and the kingdom of Italy. At the age of abouttwenty-eight years, the endowments of her mind andperson had attained their perfect maturity. Herbeauty, which, in the apprehension of Theodora her­self, might have disputed the conquest of an emperor,was animated by manly sense, activity, and resolution.Education and experience had cultivated her talents;her philosophic studies were exempt from vanity;and, though she expressed herself with equal elegance * Compare the different passages of Procopius (Vandal. 1. ii. c. 5. Gothic.1. i. c . 3). •T For the reign and character of Amalasontha, see Procopius (Gothic. 1. i.c. 2, 3, 4, and Anecdot. c . 10. with the Notes of Alemannus), Cassiodorius(Var. vii. ix. x. and xi. 1), and Jornandes (de Rebus Geticis, c. 59. and DoSuccesione Regnoruui, in Muralori, tom. i. p. 241). /- I D 4