OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.. 547 bition is always prepared to encounter in the pursuit of honours.Four Roman emperors, with their families, their favourites, andtheir adherents, perished by the sword in the space of ten years,during which, the bishop of Carthage guided by his authorityand eloquence the counsels of the African church. It was onlyin the third year of his administration, that he had reason, during afew months, to apprehend the severe edicts of Decius, the vigilance Hi]£,n8er r . ° and night f of the magistrate, and the clamours of the multitude, who loudlydemanded, that Cyprian, the leader of the Christians, mould bethrown to the lions. Prudence suggested the necessity of a tem­porary retreat, and the voice of prudence was obeyed. He with­drew himself into an obscure solitude, from whence he couldmaintain a constant correspondence with the clergy and peo­ple of Carthage; and concealing himself till the tempest waspast, he preserved his life without relinquishing either his poweror his reputation. His extreme caution did not however escapethe censure of the more rigid Christians who lamented, or thereproaches of his personal enemies who insulted, a conduct whichthey considered as a pusillanimous and criminal desertion of themost sacred duty ?6. >The propriety of reserving himself for thefuture exigencies of the church, the example of several holybishops 77, and the divine admonitions which, as he declares him­self, he frequently received in visions, and extafies, were the reasonsalleged in his justification 7 *. But his best apology may be foundin the cheerful resolution, with which, about eight years afterwards>"he suffered death in the cause of religion. The authentic historyof his martyrdom has been recorded with unusual candour andimpartiality. A short abstract therefore of its most important cir­cumstances will convey the clearest information of the spirit, and ofthe forms, of the Roman persecutions 7'. When Valerian was consul for the third, and Gallienus for the A. D. 2;^fourth time; Paternus, proconsul of Africa, summoned Cyprian 4 A 2 to