OCR Output 368 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIY, cwu de- branches. The degrees of kindred*1 are numbered by grees of . » kindred, the civilians, ascending from the last possessor to a com­mon parent, and descending from the common parentto the next heir: my father stands in the first degree,my brother in the second, his children in the third, andthe remainder of the series may be conceived by fancy,or pictured in a genealogical table. In Jthis computation,a distinction was made, essential to the laws and even theconstitution of Rome; the agnats, or persons connect­ed by a line of males, were called, as they stood in thenearest degree, to an equal partition; but a female wasincapable of transmitting any legal claims; and the cog­nate of every rank, without excepting the dear relation ofa mother and a son, were disinherited by the twelvetables, as strangers and aliens. Among the Romans, agens or lineage was united by a common name and do­mestic rites :. the various cognomens or surnames of Sci-pio or Marcellus, distinguished from each other the sub­ordinate branches or families of the Cornelian or Clau-dian ra.ce: the default of the agnats, of the same sur­name, was supplied by the larger denomination of Gen­tiles i and the vigilance of the laws maintained, in thesame name, the perpetual descent of religion and pra^-perty. A similar principle dictated the Voconian law,'wh?ch abolished the right of female inheritance. Aslong as virgins were given or sold in marriage, the adop­tion of the wife extinguished the hopes of the daughter.E;ut the equal succession pf independent matrons sup­ported their pride and luxury, and might transport intoa foreign house the riches of their fathers. Whilethe maxims of Catok were revered, they tended to per- * Blackstnne's Tables (vol. 2. p. 202.) represent and compare the degrees of thecivil with those of the canon and common law. A separate tract of Julius Paulus, degradibus et afbnibus, is inserted or abridged in the Pandects, (lib. 38. tit. 10.) Inthe seventh degrees he computes (no. 18,) one thousand and twenty-four persons. '1 The Voconian law was enacted in the year of Rome 584. 'The younger Scipio,who was then seventeen years of age, (Frenshemius, Supplement. Livian. 46. 40.)found an occasion of exercising his generosity to his mother, sisters, &c. (Polyhius,tom. t. lib. S\. p. 1453—1464.'edit. Gronov. .a domestic wituess.) J1 Legem Voconiam ^Ernesti, Clavis Ciceroniana) magna voce bonis lateribus (at