OCR Output 5^3 THE DECLINE AND FALL an annual present from the churches within their jurisdiction, as theprice, or as the reward, of their moderation ,0\ The controversyconcerning the precise time of the celebration of Easter armed thebishops of Asia and Italy against each other, and was considered asthe most important business of this period of leisure and tranquil­lity '°9. Nor was the peace of the church interrupted, till the ir>creasing numbers of proselytes seem at length to have attracted' theA.D. 198. attention, and to have alienated the mind, of Severus. With thedesign of restraining the progress of Christianity, he published anedict, which, though it seemed to affect only the new converts, couldnot be carried into strict execution, without exposing to danger andpunishment the most zealous of their teachers and missionaries. Iathi6 mitigated persecution, we may still discover the indulgent spiritof Rome and of Polytheism, which so readily admitted every excusein-favour of those who practised the religious-ceremonies of their fa­thers'*0. 0/the succes- But. the laws which Severus had enacted soon expired with sors cfSeve- , , „ •. . • , ^_ . . „ rus. the authority or that emperor j and5 the' Christians, after this 249° 2M_ accidental tempest, enjoyed a calm of thirty-eight* years-"*. Tiflthis period they had usually held their assemblies in private housesand sequestered places. They were now permitted to erect and con^sccrate convenient edifices for the purpose of religious worfliip;to purchase lands, even at Rome itself, for the use of the commu­nity; and' to conduct the elections of1 their ecclesiastical ministers inso public, but at the same time in so exemplary, a manner, as todeserve the respectful attention of the Gentiles '". This long reposeof the church was accompanied with dignity. The reigns of thoseprinces, who derived: their extraction from the Asiatic provincesproved, the most: favourable to the Christians; the. eminent per­sons of the sect, instead of being reduced, t0; implore the pro­tection of a slave or concubine,, were admitted,into the;palace inthe honourable characters of priests and philosophers; and their mys­