OCR Output 194 [boo* vt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mash; the report being gone abroad thatthey were coming down upon him to Gilgal.Samuel replied, " iNay, certainly, if thou hadstbeen a* righteous man, and hadst not diso­beyed me, nor slighted the commands whichGod suggested to me concerning the presentstate of affairs, and hadst not acted morehastily than the present circumstances re­quired, thou wouldst have been permitted toreign a long time, and thy posterity afterthee."t So Samuel being grieved at whathad happened, returned home. But Saulcame to the city Gibeah, with his son Jona­than; having only six hundred men with him;and of these the greater part had no weapons;because of the scarcity of iron in that country,as well as of those that could make suchweapons; for as we shewed a little before,the Philistines had not suffered them to havesuch iron, or such workmen.J Now thePhilistines divided their army into three corn-office, and offer sacrifice without the priest, we are insome degree able to answer that question, which I haveever thought a very difficult one: viz. Whether if therewere a city or country of lay christians, without any cler­gymen, it were lawful for the laity alone to baptize, ad­minister the sacrament, &c. or indeed whether they alonecould ordain themselves either bishops, priests, or dea­cons, for the due performance of such sacerdotal ministra­tions; or whether they ought not rather, till they pro­cure clergymen to come among them, to confine them­selves within those bounds of piety and Christianity whichbelong alone to the laity; such particularly as are recom­mended in the 1st Book of the Apostolical Constitutions,which peculiarly concern the laity, and are intimated inClement's undoubted Epistle, § 40. To which latteropinion I incline. serve the command that was given him. Butwhen he saw that the prophet tarried longerthan he expected, and that he was desertedby the soldiers, he took the sacrifices, andoffered them. At this juncture he heard thatSamuel was come, and went out to meet him.But the prophet said he had not done well indisobeying the injunctions he had sent him;and had not stayed till his coming; whichbeing appointed according to the will of God,he had prevented him in offering those prayersand sacrifices that he should have made forthe multitude; and that he therefore had per­formed divine offices rashly, and in an illmanner. Hereupon Saul made an apologyfor himself, and said, that he had waited asmany days as Samuel had appointed; thathe had been so quick in offering his sacrifice,upon account of the necessity he was in, andbecause his soldiers were departing from him,out of their fear of the enemies' camp at Mich-appointed him; but not till the end of that day, as he oughtto have done; and Samuel appears, by delaying to cometill the full time of the evening sacrifice on that day, tohave tried him (who seems to have been already for sometime declining from his strict subordination to God, and hisprophet; to have taken life-guards for himself and his son,which was an entirely new thing in Israel, and savouredof a distrust of God's providence; and to have affectedmore than he ought that independent authority which thePagan kings took to themselves:) Samuel, I say, seemshere to have tried Saul, whether he would stay till thepriest came; who alone could lawfully offer the sacrifices,or would boldly and profanely usurp the priest's office;which he ventured upon, was justly rejected for his pro-faneness. See Constitut. Apost. II. 27. And indeed sinceSaul had accepted kingly power, which naturally becomesungovernable and tyrannical, as God foretold, and the ex­perience of all ages has shewn; the divine settlement byMoses had soon been laid aside under the kings, had notGod, by keeping strictly to his laws, and severely execu­ting the threatenings therein contained, restrained Sauland other kings in some degree of obedience to himself.Nor was even this severity sufficient to restrain most ofthe future kings of Israel and Judah, from the grossestidolatry and impiety. Of the advantage of which strictness,in the observing divine laws, and inflicting their threat­ened penalties, see Antiq. VI. 12. where Josephus speaksof that matter. Though it seems at least in three in­stances, that good men did not always immediately approveof such divine severity. There seems to be one instance, 1 Sam. vi. 19, 20. Another, 1 Sara. xv. 11. And a third, 2 Sam. vi. 8, 9. Joseph. Antiq. VI. 7. though they all atlast acquiesced in the divine conduct, as knowing that Godis wiser than men. * By this answer of Samuel, and that from a divinecommission, which is fuller in 1 Sam. xiii. 14. and by thatparallel note in the Apostolical Constitutions, just quoted,concerning the great wickedness of Saul in venturing, evenunder a seeming necessity of affairs, to usurp the priest's t 1 Sam. xiii. 13. J The precaution which the Philistines took to hinderthe Israelites from providing themselves with weapons, isno more than what other conquerors have done to thenations they have vanquished. Porsenna, when he madepeace with the Romans, restrained them from the use ofall iron but what was necessary in the tillage oT theirground. Cyrus, when he subdued the Lydians, for fearof a revolt, took from them the use of arms, and insteadof a laborious life spent in war, suffered them to sink intosoftness and luxury, so that they soon lost their ancientvalour: and (to instance in one prince more) Nebuchad­nezzar, when ne had made himself master of Judea, tookalong with him into Babylon all the craftsmen and smiths,that the poorest of the people, which he left behind, mightbe in no condition to rebel, 2 Kings xxiv. 14. The onlywonder is, why the Israelites, after they had regainedtheir liberty under the government of Samuel, and giventhe Philistines so total an overthrow atEbcn-ezer, did notrestore those artificers, and so provide themselves withproper arms against the next occasion? But, besides theextreme sloth and negligence which appears in the Israel­ites' whole conduct during this period, it was not so easy