OCR Output C. XIII.] AND SACRILEGE. 231 could have done from the famine among the Jews; for whenthey came first to the Eomans, they were puffed up by thefamine, and swelled like men in a dropsy: after which theyall on the sudden overfilled those hodies that were beforeempty, and so hurst asunder, excepting such only as wereskilful enough to restrain their appetites, and by degrees tookin their food into bodies unaccustomed thereto. Yet didanother plague seize upon those that were thus preserved;for there was found among the Syrian deserters a certainperson who was caught gathering pieces of gold out of theexcrement of the Jews' bellies; for the deserters used toswallow such pieces of gold, as we told you before, when theycame out; and for these did the seditious search them all; forthere was a great quantity of gold in the city, insomuch thatas much was now sold [in the Roman camp] for twelve Attic[drams] as was sold before for twenty-five. But when thiscontrivance was discovered in one instance, the fame of itfilled their several camps, that the deserters came to themfull of gold. So the multitude of the Arabians, with theSyrians, cut up those that came as supplicants, and searchedtheir bellies. Nor does it seem to me that any misery befellthe Jews that was more terrible than this, since in one night'stime about two thousand of these deserters were thus dis­sected. 5. When Titus came to the knowledge of this wicked prac­tice, he had like to have surrounded those that had beenguilty of it with his horse, and have shot them dead; and hehad done it, had not their number been so very great, andthose that were liable to this punishment would have beenmanifold more than those whom he had slain. However, hecalled together the commanders of the auxiliary troops he hadwith him, as well as the commanders of the Roman legions(for some of his own soldiers had been also guilty herein, ashe had been informed,) and had great indignation againstboth sorts of them, and said to them, — "What! have any ofmy own soldiers done such things as this out of the uncertainhope of gain, without regarding their own weapons, which aremade of silver and gold ? Moreover, do the Arabians and