OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 133 might be wielded with ease; a loose coat of mail alsohelped to defend the breast, and the left leg was co­vered with a greave; their helmets were adorned withplumes, to add to the appearance of their stature. Thegolden-armed soldiers wore tunics of various colors ;the silver-armed, of white linen. To the latter theright wing was assigned; the former took post on theleft. The Romans had been apprised of these splendidaccoutrements, and had been taught by their command­ers that ' a soldier ought to be rough; not decoratedwith gold and silver, but placing his confidence in hissword : that matters of this kind were in reality spoilrather than armor; glittering before action, but soonlosing their brilliancy when besmeared with blood :that the brightest ornament of a soldier was valor: thatall those trinkets would follow victory ; and that thoserich enemies would be valuable prizes to the poorerconquerors.' Cursor, having animated his men withthese observations, led them on to battle. He tookpost himself on the right wing, giving the command ofthe left to the master of the horse. At the first onsetthe conflict between the two armies became desperate,while the dictator and the master of the horse wereeagerly contending on which wing victory should firstshow itself. It happened that Junius first, with theleft wing, made the right of the enemy give way; thisconsisted of men devoted after the custom of the Sam-nites, and on that account distinguished by white gar­ments and armor of equal whiteness. Junius, saying'he would sacrifice these to Pluto,' pressed forward,disordered their ranks, and made an evident impres­sion : which being perceived by the dictator, he ex­claimed, ' Shall the battle begin on the left wing; andshall the right, the dictator's own troops, only secondthe arms of others, and not claim the greatest share ofthe victory?' This spurred on the soldiers: nor didthe cavalry yield to the infantry in bravery, nor theardor of lieutenant-generals to that of the commanders.Marcus Valerius from the right wing, and PubliusDecius from the left, both men of consular rank, rode