OCR Output an. 1493.] 125 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. own predictions; there being *no one thatcould be a witness against him, and accusehim for so doing, he stiil gave his attestationto Balaam, and did him the honour to makemention of him on this account. CHAP. VII. OF THE PUNISHMENT INFLICTED ON THE MIDIANITES BTTHE HEBREWS: THE APPOINTMENT OF MOSES'S SUCCES­SOR; GRANT OF AMORITE LANDS, &C. MOSES, for the causes aforementioned,sent against the land of Midian anarmy of twelve thousand* men; taking anequal number out of every tribe; and ap­pointing for their commander Phineas, whohad guarded the laws of the Hebrews, andhad inflicted punishment upon Zimri, whenhe had transgressed them. Now the Midianites perceived beforehand,how the Hebrews were coming, and wouldsuddenly be upon them. So they assembledtheir army, and fortified the entrances intotheir country; and there awaited the enemy'sapproach. When they were come, and hadjoined battle with them, an innumerable mul­titude of the Midianites fell; among whomwere their five kings; Evi, Zur, Reba, Hur,and Rekem; the latter of whom was of thesame name with the capital city of all Ara­bia, which is till now so called by the wholeArabian nation, Arecem, from the name ofthe king that built it; but is by the Greekscalled Petra. Now when the enemies werediscomfited, the Hebrews spoiled their coun­try, and took a great prey, and destroyed themen that were its inhabitants, together withthe women: only they preserved the virgins * Numb. xxxi. 5. t The slaughter of all the Midianite women, that hadprostituted themselves to the lewd Israelites; and thepreservation of those that had not been guilty therein;which latter were no fewer than 32,000, both here, andNumb. xxxi. 15, 16, 17, 35, and both by the particularcommand of God, are highly remarkable; and shew thateven in nations doomed to destruction for their wicked­ness, the innocent were sometimes particularly and pro­videntially taken care of, and delivered from that destruc­tion. Which directly implies, that it was the wickednessof the nations of Canaan, and nothing else, that occasionedtheir excision. See Gen. xv. 16. 1 Sam. xv. 18, 33. Inthe first of which places, the reason of the delay of thepunishment of the Araorites is given; because their ini­quity was not yet full. In the second, Saul is ordered togo and destroy the sinners, the Amalekites; plainly im- as Moses had commanded Phineas; who in­deed came back, bringing with its victoriousarmy fifty-two thousand beeves, seventy-fivethousand six hundred sheep, and sixty thou­sand asses, with an immense quantity of goldand silver furniture, which the Midianitesmade use of in their houses; for they wereso wealthy, that they were very luxurious.There were also led captive aboutf thirty-two thousand virgins. So Moses divided theprey into parts, and gave one fiftieth part toEleazar, and to the priests; and anotherfiftieth part to the Levites; and distributedthe rest of the prey among the people. Afterwhich they lived happily, as having obtainedan abundance of good things by their valour;and there being no misfortune that attendedthem or hindered their enjoyment of thathappiness. Moses being now grown old, appointedJoshua for his successor}: both to receive di­rections from God, as a prophet, and for acommander of the army, if they should at anytime stand in need of such a one. And thiswas done by the command of God: that tohim the care of the public should be com­mitted. Now Joshua had been instructed inall those kinds of learning which concernedthe laws, and God himself; and Moses hadbeen his instructor. At this time the two tribes of Gad, andReubel, and the half tribe of Manassehi.abounded in a multitude of cattle, as well asin all other kinds of prosperity; whence theyhad a meeting, and besought Moses to givethem, as their peculiar portion, that land ofthe Amorites which they had taken by rightof war; because it was fruitful, and for feed-plying, that they were therefore to be destroyed becausethey were sinners, and not otherwise. In the third, thereason is given, why king Agag was not to be spared; viz.because of his former cruelty. As thy sword hath madethe Hebrew women childless; so shall thy mother be madechildless among women, by the Hebrews. The Apostlesalso, or their amanuensis Clement, gives this reason of thenecessity of the coming of Christ, that men had formerlyperverted both the positive law, and that of nature: andhad cast out of their minds the memory of the flood, theburning of Sodom, the plagues of the Egyptians, and theslaughter of the inhabitants of Palestine, as signs of themost amazing impenitence and insensibility under thepunishment of horrid wickedness. Constitut. Apoit. viii12, page 402. J Numb, xxvii. 22. Deut. xxxiv. 9. .y 11 2