OCR Output 68 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK I. CHAP. XXXV. Lucumo succeeds Aucus. XxNCUS reigned twenty-four years, inferior to none ofhis predecessors, in the arts of peace or war. His sonshad now almost reached the age of fourteen, for whichreason, Tarquin pressed tu bring on the election of a newking, with the utmost expedition. An assembly of thepeople being called, he sent out the~princes on a huntingmatch, at the time of their meeting. \ It is remained ofhim, that he was the first, who openly solicited for thecrown, and had a public harangue, calculated to securehis interest with the people; telling them, " That he.did"not ask a thing unprecedented or uncommon, as he"was not the first, but the third foreigner, who had as-"pired to the sovereignty of Rome, so that none need"wonder, or take offence at his presumption. That"Tatius was both a foreigner, and an enemy, when he"was made king; and Numa,l a stranger to the city,"was called without soliciting it, to that high office."That he, the moment he could dispose of himself, had"removed to Rome with his family and fortune, where"be had spent a greater part of his life, than where hedrew his first breath, and a part too best calculated forthe discharge of civil offices. That he had studied theRoman laws, both sacred and civil, in peace and iuwar, under king A'ncus himself, a master of whom hehad no reason to be ashamed. For loyalty and re-•' spect to his sovereign, he was second to none; and for'' generosity and beneficence to others, not even to the*' king himself."—Whilst he was enumerating these cir*cumstances in his favour, which, by the bye, could notbe disputed, he was declared king by a great majorityof the people. The same ambition which actuated Tarquin, a manin other respects, of an unexceptionable character, incanvassing for the crown, he also discovered after .he hajlobtained it. For, being no less attentive to the esta­blishing of bis own authority, than the aggrandizementof the state, he created an hundred new senators, whofrom that time, were distinguished by the title of Sena­