OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. pure and genuine sources of wealth; and from them he soon deriveda copious supply for the public necessities. The expence of thehousehold was immediately reduced to one half. All the instru­ments of luxury, Pertinax exposed to public auction gold andsilver plate, chariots of a singular construction, a superfluous ward­robe of silk and embroidery, and a great number of beautiful stavesof both sexes; excepting only, with attentive humanity, those whowere born in a state of freedom, and had been ravished from thearms of their weeping parents. At the fame time that he obligedthe worthless favourites of the tyrant to resign a part of their ill-gotten wealth, he satisfied the just creditors of the state, and dis­charged the long arrears of honest services. He removed the oppres­sive restrictions which had been laid upon commerce, and granted allthe uncultivated lands in Italy and the provinces, to those who wouldimprove them; with an exemption from all tribute, during the term,of ten years '\ Such an uniform conduct had already secured to Pertinax the no- and popu-blest reward of a sovereign, the love and esteem of his people. *mr'Those who remembered the virtues of Marcus were pleased to con­template in their new emperor the features of that bright original}.and flattered themselves, that they should long enjoy the benign,influence of his administration* A hasty zeal to reform the cor­rupted stater. accompanied with less prudence than might have beer*expected from the years and experience of Pertinax, was fatal tohimself and to his country. His honest indiscretion united againsthim the servile crowd, who found their private benefit in the pub­lic disorders, and who preferred the favour of a tyrant to the inex­orable equality of the laws Amidst the general joy, the sullen and angry countenance of the Discontent ofPraatorian guards betrayed thier inward diflatisfaction. They had ^tD,txto*reluctantly submitted to Pertinax; they dreaded the strictness of theancient discipline, which be was preparing to restore j and they re­gretted.