OCR Output NOTES ON THE mome motion to their ruling gods. Hence, when the soul is I*the heavens, they are desirous of uniting it to the divine lifewhich flourishes there. But it is proper that souls living in ge­neration should fail beyond them, like the Homeric Ulysses, thatthey may not be allured by generation, of which the sea is animage. And when souls are in Hades, the Sirens are desirous ofuniting them through intellectual conceptions to Pluto. So thatPlato knew that in the kingdom of Hades there are gods, dæ­mons, and souls, who dance as it were round Pluto, allured bythe Sirens that dwell there." But here a doubt may very naturally arise in the mind of thereader unskilled in philosophy, how the Sirens, who are divinepowers, can be said to be desirous of connecting souls with gene­ration, which is baneful to the soul. To this I answer, that thealluring power of the Sirens benefits impure souls, by subjectingthem to generation; as their latent guilt is by this means drawnforth, and they are thus prepared for that punishment, whichbeing inflicted for the most benevolent purposes, is in such asthese necessary to the acquisition of a perfect life. But thesedivine natures benefit pure souls by their alluring power, becausethrough this they call forth the virtues of such souls into energy,which would otherwise remain in a dormant state. Page 123. Minerva Pronoia.~\ i. e. Providential Minerva.Phurnutus informs us, that temples were raised in honour of Mi­nerva Pronoia, because this goddess is the fame with the provi­dence which subsists in Jupiter. I only add, that providence(t^orjhx) evidently signifies an energy prior lo inlelleB (»{o nu),and is therefore an energy of the gods, who are superiutellectualnatures. Page :24. Alctvi\ Was a lyric poet, who flourished aboutthe 44th Olympiad, aud was contemporary, according to Hero-dotus,-with Periander. His poetry was celebrated for its greatresemblance to that of Homer j but at present nothing but frag­ments of it remain. 5 p»Se