OCR Output C. I.] THE ROMANS. 241 before they can have taken breath, these advantages promiseus no less than a certain and sudden victory. As for myself,I shall at present waive any commendations of those who diein war,1 and omit to speak of the immortality of those menwho are slain in the midst of their martial bravery: yet can­not I forbear to imprecate upon those who are of a contrarydisposition, that they may die in time of peace, by some dis­temper or other, since their souls are condemned to the grave,together with their bodies; for what man of virtue is therewho does not know that those souls which are severed fromtheir fleshly bodies in battles by the sword, and received bythe ether, that purest of elements, and joined to that companywhich are placed among the stars: that they become gooddemons and propitious heroes, and show themselves as suchto their posterity afterwards ? while upon those souls thatwear away in and with their distempered bodies, comes asubterranean night, to dissolve them to nothing, and a deepoblivion to take away all the remembrance of them, and thisnotwithstanding they be clean from all spots and defilementsof tlm world, so that, in this case, the soul at the same timecomes to the utmost bounds of its life, and of its body, andof its memorial also. But, since fate hath determined thatdeath is to come of necessity upon all men, a sword is a betterinstrument for that purpose than any disease whatsoever.Why is it not then a very mean thing for us not to yield upthat to the public benefit, which we must yield up to fate ?And this discourse have I made upon the supposition thatthose who first attempt to go upon this wall must needs bekilled in the attempt, though still men of true courage have achance to escape, even in the most hazardous undertakings.For, in the first place, that part of the former wall that is 1 In this speech of Titus we may clearly see the notions which the Kommisthen hail of death, a:id of the happy state of those who died bravely in war,and the contrary estate of those who died ignobly in their beds by sickness,Rclaud here also produces two parallel passages, the one out of AmmiauusMarcellinus, concerning the Alaui, lib. 31, that " they judged that man happywho laid down his life in battle." The other of Valerius Maximus, lib. xi.ch. 6, who says that " the Cimbri and Celtiberi exulted for joy in the army,as being to go out of the world gloriously and hippily." IV. —21