OCR Output 140 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. of Numidia. He was immediately besieged by Pharas,an officer whose truth and sobriety were the more ap­plauded, as such qualities could seldom be found amongthe Heruli, the most corrupt of the barbarian tribes.To his vigilance Belisarius had intrusted this importantcharge; and, after a bold attempt to scale the mountain,in which he lost a hundred and ten soldiers, Pharas ex­pected, during a winter siege, the operation of distressand famine on the mind of the Vandal king. From thesoftest habits of pleasure, from the unbounded commandof industry and wealth, he was reduced to share the po­verty of the Moors/ supportable only to themselves bytheir ignorance of a happier condition. In their rudei novels, of mud and hurdles, which confined the smokeand excluded the light, they promiscuously slept on theground, perhaps on a sheep-skin, with their wives, theirchildren, and their cattle. Sordid and scanty were theirgarments; the use of bread and wine was unknown; andtheir oaten or barley cakes, imperfectly baked in theashes, were devoured almost in a crude state by the hun­gry savages. The health of Gelimer must have sunkunder these strange and unwonted hardships, from what­soever cause they had been endured; but his actualmisery was embittered by the recollection of past great­ness, the daily insolence of his protectors, and the justapprehension, that the light and venal Moors might betempted to betray the rights of hospitality. The know­ledge of his situation dictated the humane and friendlyepistle of Pharas. "Like yourself (said the chief of theHeruli) I am an illiterate barbarian, but I speak the lan­guage of plain sense, and a honest heart. Why will youpersist in hopeless obstinacy? Why will you ruin your­self, your family, and nation? The love of freedom andabhorrence of slavery? Alas! my dearest Gelimer, are 'Shaw (Travels, p. 220.) most accurately represents the manners of the Bedo-weensand Kabyles, the last of whom, by their language, are the remnant of the Moors:yet how changed—how civilized are these modern savages !—provisions are plentyamong thcni, and bread is common, w -