OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 263 laws, introduced a new system of criminal jurispru- chap. i YYYVTI dence *; and the emperors, from Augustus to Jus-' tinian, disguised their increasing rigour under thenames of the original authors. But the invention andfrequent use of extraordinary pains proceeded fromthe desire to extend and conceal the progress of de­spotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Romans,the senate was always prepared to confound, at thewill of their masters, the judicial and legislativepowers. It was the duty of the governors to maintainthe peace of their province, by the arbitrary and rigidadministration of justice; the freedom of the cityevaporated in the extent of empire, and the Spanishmalefactor, who claimed the privilege of a Roman,was elevated by the command of Galba on a fairerand more lofty cross. Occasional rescripts issuedfrom the throne to decide the questions which, bytheir novelty or importance, appeared to surpass theauthority and discernment of a proconsul. Trans­portation and beheading were reserved for honourablepersons; meaner criminals were either hanged, orburnt, or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wildbeasts of the amphitheatre. Armed robbers werepursued and extirpated as the enemies of society;the driving away horses or cattle was made a capitaloffence; but simple theft was uniformly consideredas a mere civil and private injury. The degrees ofguilt, and the modes of punishment, were too oftendetermined by the discretion of the rulers, and thesubject was left in ignorance of the legal dangerwhich he might incur by every action of his life. A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology, Measure ofethics, and jurisprudence. Whenever their judgments gult" * For the penal law (Leges Cornelia), Pompeiae, Julia!, of Sylla, Pompey, andthe Casars), see the sentences of Paulus (1. iv. tit xviii—xxx. p. 497—328.edit. Schulting), the Gregorian Code (Fragment. 1. xix. p. 705, 706, in Schult-ing), the Collatio Legum Mosaicarum et Romanarum (tit. i—xv), the Theodosian(.'ode (1. ix), the Code of Justinian (1. ix), the Pandects (xlviii), the Institutes(1. iv. tit. xviii), and the Greek version of Theophilus (p. 917—950'). s4