OCR Output 916 SAttMATIA. SARMATIA. Of these there might be any amount,— their occur­rence in different and distant parts by no meansimplying migrations. The A varolii may be placed in Galllcia. South of them come the Ombrones, and theAnarto-phracti. Are these the Amartes of Caesar?The Aimrtes of Caesar were on the eastern confinesof the Hercynian forest (Bell. Gall. vi. 24, 25), con­terminous with the Daei, a fact which, taken alongwith the physical conditions of the country, gives usWiMe.m Gallicia, or Austrian Silesia, fur the Aimr-to-phracti. Then come the liurgiones, then the Ar-sitetae (comjHire with Aorsi), then the Saboki, thenthe PicnL'itae, and then the Ilessi, along the Car­pathian Mountains. GalVwia, with parts of Yolhynia,and Podolia give us ample room for these obscure,and otherwise unnamed, population*. The populations of the second column lie to theeast of those just enumerated, beginning againwith the Venedi (virb rovs OlnvtSas iri\tv). Yilna,Grodno, with parts of Minsk, Yolhynia, Podolia,and Kiev give us an area over which we have sixnames to distribute. Its southern boundary are thePeueinian mountains (liukhovinia f). (1.) The Galindae. — These are carried too fareast, i.e. if we arc right in identifying them withthe Galinditae of the Galamlia and Golem of themiddle ages, who are East Prussians on the Spir-ding Lake. ('2.) The Sudeni.— These, again, seem to be the*SWo-vitae (the termination is non-radical in severalPrussian names) conterminous with the Galinditae,but to the north-east of them. Their district iscalled Sudovia, (3.) The Stavani—Concerning these, we havethe startling statement, that they extend as far asthe Alauni (m*XP* T®v 'AXavvuv). Is not "AAowman erroneous name developed out of some form ofTaAii'-Sai? The extension of either the Stavani toCaucasus, or of the Alani to Prussia, is out of thequestion. (4.) The Igylliones.— Zeuss has allowed himself(s. v. Jazicingt) to hold that the true form of thisword is 'lTU77iwfes, and to identify this with aname that appears in so many forms as to makealmost any conjecture excusable, — Jazicingi, Jac-icitiai, Jaczwinai, Jecwesin, Getuinzitae, Geticezitae,Jf-ntuisianes, Jtntuosi, Jacintiones, Jatwjazi, Jat-wjezi, or Getwcsia, and Gotirez'ta, all actual forms.The area of the population, which was one of themost powerful branches of the Lithuanian stock inthe 13th century, was part of Grodno, Minsk, andYolhynia, a, locality that certainly suits the Igyl­liones. (;'>.) The Costoboci in Podolia. (G.) The Transmontani. — This is a name fromthe Latin of the Dacians,—perhaps, however, a trans­lation of the common Slavonic Za-volovskaje, i. e,ocer-the-wutershed. It was applied, perhaps, tothe population on the northern frontier of lMcia ingeneral. The third list, beginning also with the Venedi,follows the line of the Baltic from Yilna and Cottr-land towards Fin land, and then strikes inland, east­wards and southwards. Immediately on the Veoedicgolf lie the (1) Veltae (OfoArai). Word for word, this is theVylte and Wilzi of the middle ages; a form whichappears as early as Alfred. It was German, i. e.applied by the Franks to certain Slavonic population.U was also native, its plural being Wektabi Few nations stand out more prominently tan thaiWilts of the Carlovingian period. Tfeer tie,ever, to the west of Prussia* and indeed d"rania, from which the Oder divided tb«o. Isthey were in Mecklenburg, rather thinor Esthania, like the Veltae of Tacitus. Wadword, however, the names are the sun. Ti» sy­nonym for these western Wiltae or Wtla&iiLiut-ici (LuHczi). This we know frren fpm*l i»dcnce. A probable synonym for the Yeltseef Tsw;is also some form of Lit: This »e infertheir locality being part sf the present IM-\and /.- !7-land. Add to this that one writer|(Adam of Bremen) places Wilzi in thePtolemy's Veltae. The exact expianatim efdouble appearance of a pair of names UIt is safe, however, to place the Veltae is i^*-*afli. e. in the southern parts of Lironia, and V"**^in parts of Lithuania Proper and Cowland. Ossjstantine Porphyrogeneta mentions thera »Y«North of the Veltae — (2.) The Osii (Ossii). probably in the sJOesei It should be added, however, the ratwes~, appears frequently in the geography ofOsilii, as a name for the occupants of Oestl,early in mediaeval history. (IS.) The Carbones, north of the OsiL Tailname of many explanations. It may be tbtword for forest = Carbo. It may be the rat(or A'-r), which appears in a great number «/words.— Coralli (Karelian), Cur- (in '"r-*iJKur- (in Kur-sk), &c. The forms CwwaCuronia ( Courland) approach it, but thesouth instead of north. It more probably^It almost certainly shows that we harepaneithe country of the Slavonians and Li:hithat of the Ksthonians, Ingrians, and FiThen, to the east,— (4.) The Kar-eotae. — Here the Aor- acommon Finn root as before. Any part ofvernment of Nocogorod or Olonttz misht banplied the name, the present Finns of brthto the A'arelian division of the name (the -eknon-radical). Then — (5, 6, 7, 8. 9, 10, 11. Ac) The Safi, Mwhom the Agathyrsi, then the Aorsi aad Iritae, soutli of whom the Sarah, and BVofar as the Khipaean mountains. Then tatand Xaski, south of whom the Vibiooe* sadand south of the Vit-i.>i;es. a- fa: a- '. 5 Athe Stumt. Between the AUuni and Baathe Karyoncs aud Sargatii. At the bead <Tanais the Ophlones and Tanaitae. There are few points in this li>t which an>The bend of the Tanais (=/>rm) wouldOphlones in Ekaterinoslav, The Burusci. ifreached the Rhipaean mountains, and ifthe Uralian rather than the 1 'tiidax range,aextended far beyond both European andSarmatia. The Savari bear a name Teryin Nestor — the Sjevera, on theSula,— a word that may merely meanis a name that reappears in Caucasus — The Aorsi may be the Ersad (the d aional), a branch of the Mr.lv,:>, orcapaalpresent time of a tract an the Ofaa. Themay have been the tribes on (jh> =om) tawsuch compounds being commoiTVlabi (on the Elbe), Po- morajua (rw theThe whole geography, however, iscertain.