OCR Output •SICAXI. SICILIA. 975 H; Or. Amor. i. 14. 49; Veoant. Fort, tie Ckarib.Kaje, vi.4; Gregor. Turon. ii. 31; Procop. Bell. Goth.. 12; Lydu<. de Magutr. i. 50, iii. 36; Zeuss, l)UT«mOdtm, p. 83, folL; Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 142,id.) . [L.S.] bJCAKL [Sicuu.] SICCA VENEKIA (2'**a or 2fca Over/rota, HuL r*.3. § 30, \ ;n. 2. § 9), a considerable town ofk'linudia on the river Bagradas, and on the road from'•tr:bago to Uippo Rep us, and from Musti to Cirta. A ut. pp. 41, 45.) It was built on a bill, and,eoordtog to Pliny (v. 3. s. 2), was a Roman colony.Fa learn from Valerius Maxim us (ii. 6. § 15) that ittnred its surname from a temple of Venus whichuied there, in which, agreeably to a Phoenicianislam, the maidens of the town, including evenkm uf good family, publicly prostituted themselves,I order to collect a marriage portion; a circumstanceinch shows that the town was originally a Phoeni-t: t«t lie men t, devoted to the worship of As t arte.:«mp. Sm\l Jug. 56; Polyb. i. 66, 67.) ShawTrnrtU^ p. 87) takes it to be the modern Keff,\tre a statue of Venus lias been found, and an in-ripcion, with the words Ordo Siccensiuin. (Comp.•cati, SuppL The*. Mural, ii. pp. 266. 6; Orelli,nrr. no. 3733.) [T. H. D.j SiCELLA. [Ziklao.]MCHEM. [Nkapolm II.] ILIA 1 i..!AiJ: /./.■'. Huctkidrw*, Siciliensis:nt'ji, one of the largest and must importantanas in the Mediterranean. It was indeed gene-b'y reckoned the largest of all; though some ancientv.rra considered Sardinia as exceeding it in size,titw which, according to the researches of modemcraphers, tarns out to be correct. [Sardinia]. I. General Description. The general form of Sicily is that of a triangle,rag its shortest side or base turned to the E.,d M-paraied at its NE. angle from the adjoiningwt of Italy only by a narrow strait, called in • r:-t times the Kretum SlCULUM or Sicilianit, bat now more commonly known as the StraitsM'jxma. It was generally believed in antiquity■t >.t iiv had once been joined to the continent ufIt, and severed from it by some natural convul-a (Strmh. vi. p. 258; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Virg.a in. 414.) But though this is probably trnei -logical sense, it is certain that the separationit hare taken place at a very early period, not'-u- before the hutorical age, but before the firstrv of tradition. On the other side, the W. extre-y %4 .s:t i'.y stretches out far towards the coastt-nra, so that the westernmost point of the island, . ;im-i uf Lilybaeum. is separated only by ar.ml of SO geogr. miles from the Uennaeanre mtury, or Cape Bon in Africa,[bt general triangular form of Sicily was earlyCvawd, and is described by all the ancient geo-pbtra. The three promontories that may be con-sad as forming the angles of the triangle, viz. # Pelorus to the NE., Cape Pachynus to the SE.,Lilybaeum on the W., were also generally knownreceived (Poi i. 42; Strab. vi. pp. 265, 266; l iii. 8. ft. 14; PtoL iii. 4; Mel. ii. 714). Its■■ u axe variously given: Strabo, on the au-ut uf Poaidocius, estimates the side from Pelo­id Lilybaeum, which he reckons the longest, at10 fcta*iiA (or 170 geogr. miles); and that from„ to Pelorus, the shortest of the tunc atM stadia. Pliny on the contrary reckons 186 Roman miles (149 geogr.) from Pelorus to Pachy­nus, 200 M.P. (160 geogr. miles) from Pachynusto Lilybaeum, and 170 M.P. (136 geogr.) fromLilybaeum to Pelorus: thus making the northernside the shortest instead of the longest. But Strabo'sviews of the proportion of the three sides areentirely correct; and his distances but little exceedthe truth, if some allowance be made for the wind­ings of the coast. Later geographers, from thetime of Ptolemy onwards, erroneously conceived theposition of Sicily as tending a great deal more to the.SW. than it really does, at the same time that theygave it a much more regular triangular form; andthis error was perpetuated by modern geographersdown to the time of D'Anville, and was indeed notaltogether removed till the publication of the va­luable coast survey of the island by Captain Smyth.(See the map published by Magini in 16*20, andthat of D'Anville in his Analyse Geographique delltalie, Paris 1744.) A considerable part of Sicily is of a mountainouscharacter. A range of mountains, which are geolo­gically of the same character as those in the southernportion of Bruttium (the group of Asjiromonte),and may be considered almost as a continuation ufthe same chain, interrupted only by the interveningstrait, rises near Cape Pelorus, and extend* at firstin a SW. direction to the neighbourhood of Taor-mina (Tauromenium) from whence it turns nearlydue W. and continues to hold this course, runningparallel with the X. coast of the island till it risesinto the elevated group of the Muttte Madonia, alittle to the S. of Cefalii (Cephaloedium.) Fromthence it breaks up into more irregular masses oflimestone mountains, which fonn the central nucleusof the W. portion of the island, while their anusextending down to the sea encircle the Bay ofPalermo, as well as the more extensive Gulf ofCasteilamare, with bold and almost isolated head­lands. The detached mass of Mount Ebtx(I/o*sjdi S. Giuliano) rises near 7Vapanialmost at the \f.extremity of the island, but with this exception theW. ami SW. coast round to Sciacca, 20 miles be­yond the site of Selinus, is comparatively low andshelving, and presents no bold features. Anotherrange or mass of mountains branches off from thatof the Monte Madonia near Pulizzi, and trends ina SE. direction through the heart of the island,forming the huge hills, rather than mountains, onone of which Enna was built, and whhh extendfrom thence to the neighbourhood of Piazza ar.dAidtme. The whole of the SE. corner of the. islandis occupied by a mass of limestone hills, never risingto the dignity nor assuming the forms of moun­tains, but forming a kind of table-lan>i. with ageneral but very gradual slope towards the S. andSE.; broken up, however, when viewed in detail,into very irregnlar masses, being traversed by deepvalleys and ravines, and presenting steep escarpmentsof limestone rock, so as to constitute a rugged anddifficult country. None of the mountains above described attain toany great elevation. The loftiest group, that of theMonte Madonia, does not exceed 3765 feet, whilethe average height of the range which extends fruiuthence to Cape*' Pelorus, is little, if at all, above3000 feet high. Monte S. Giuliano, the ancientEryx, erroneously considered in ancient times as thehighest mountain in Sicily after Aetna [Khyx], isin reality only 2184 feet in height (Smyth's Sicily,p. 242). The ancicut appellations given to these /