OCR Output ,'J20 ROMAN EMPIRE. sulmans, and their disappointment might justly accusethe failure of a prophet who had so often appealed tothe evidence of success. The faith and hope of thepilgrims were rekindled by the prospect of Mecca: then-swords were sheathed; seven times in the footsteps ofthe apostle they encompassed the Caaba: the Koreishhad retired to the hills, and Mahomet, after the custo足mary sacrifice, evacuated the city on the fourth day.The people were edified by his devotion; the hostilechiefs were awed, or divided, or seduced; and both Ca-led and Amrou, the future conquerors of Syria andEgypt, most seasonably deserted the sinking cause ofidolatry. The power of Mahomet was increased by thesubmission of the Arabian tribes: ten thousand soldierswere assembled for the conquest of Mecca; and theidolaters, the weaker party, were easily convicted of vio足lating the truce. Enthusiasm and discipline impelledthe march, and preserved the secret, till the blaze of tenthousand fires proclaimed to the astonished Koreish, thedesign, the approach, and the irresistible force of theenemy. The haughty Abu Sophian presented the keysof the city, admired the variety of arms and ensigns thatpassed before him in review; observed that the son ofAbdallah had acquired a mighty kingdom, and con足fessed, under the scimitar of Omar, that he was theapostle of the true God. The return of Marius andSylla was stained with the blood of the Romans: therevenge of Mahomet was stimulated by religious zeal,and his injured followers were eager to execute or toprevent the order of a massacre. Instead of indulgingtheir passions and his own," the victorious exile forgavethe guilt, and united the factions of Mecca. His troops, * After the conquest of Mecca, the Mahomet of Voltaire imagines and perpe足trates the most horrid crimes. The poet confesses, that he w not supported by thetruth of history, and can only allege, que celui qui fait la guerre a sa patrie au nomdo Diem, est capable de tout. (Oeuvres de Voltaire, torn. 15. p. 282.) The maximis neither charitable nor philosophic; and some reverence is surely due to the fameof heroes and the religion of nations. I am informed that a Turkish ambassadorat Paris was much scandalized at the representation of this tragedy.