OCR Output 64 ROMAN EMPIRE. both of the Greeks and Persians. The missionaries ofBalch and Samarcand pursued without fear the footstepsof the roving Tartar, and insinuated themselves into thecamps of the valleys of Imaus and the banks of the Se-linga. They exposed a metaphysical creed to those il­literate shepherds: to those sanguinary warriors, theyrecommended humanity and repose. Yet a khan, whosepower they vainly magnified, is said to have received attheir hands the rites of baptism, and even of ordination;and the fame of Prester or Presbyter Johnb has longamused the credulity of Europe. The royal convert wasindulged in the use of a portable altar; but he dispatchedan embassy to the patriarch, to inquire how, in the sea­son of Lent, he should abstain from animal food, andhow he might celebrate the eucharist in a desert thatproduced neither corn nor wine. In their progress bysea and land, the Nestorians entered China by the portof Canton and the northern residence of Sigan. Unlikethe senators of Rome, who assumed with a smile thecharacters of priests and augurs, the mandarins, whoaffect in public the reason of philosophers, are devotedin private to every mode of popular superstition. Theycherished and they confounded the gods of Palestine andof India; but the propagation of Christianity awakenedthe jealousy of the state, and, after a short vicissitude offavour and persecution, the foreign sect expired in igno­rance and oblivion.0 Under the reign of the caliphs, theNestorian church was diffused from China to Jerusalem b In its long progress to Mosul, Jerusalem, Rome, &c. the story of Prester Johnevaporated in a monstrous fable, of which some features have been borrowed fromthe Lama of Thibet, (Hist. Genealogique des Tartares, p. 2. p. 42. Hist, de Gen-giscan, p. 31, &c.) and were ignorantly transferred by the Portuguese to the emperorof Abyssinia. (Ludolph. Hist, .flithiop. Comment, lib. t. c. 1.) Yet it is probablethat, m the eleventh and twelfth centuries, Nestorian Christianity was professed inthe horde of Koraites.(d'Herbelot,,p. 256.915.959. Assemanni,torn. 4. p.468—504.) c The Christianity of China, between the seventh and the thirteenth century, is in­vmcibly proved by the consent of Chinese, Arabian, Syriac, and Latin evidence. (As­semanni, Biblioth. Orient, torn. 4. p. 502—552. Mern. de 1'Academie des Inscript.torn. 30. p. 802—819.) The inscription of Sigansu, which describes the fortunes ofthe Nestorian church, from the first mission, A. D. 636, to the current year 781, isaccused of forgery by l.a Croze, Voltaire, &c. who become the dupes of their owntunning, while they are afraid of a Jesuitical fraud.