OCR Output 102 .. -t"he idumeans [b. iv. to Ananus or -f&ilic guards, but the approach of the Idumeanswas known fo"liim ; for as he knew of it before they came, heordered .ths"gates to be shut against them, and that the wallsshould be';guardcd. Yet did not he by any means think offighting against them, but before they came to blows, to trywhat .persuasions would do. Accordingly Jesus, the eldestof";the high-priests next to Ananus, stood upon the towervrViat was over against them, and said thus :—"Many troubles,- indeed, and those of various kinds, have fallen upon this city,yet in none of them have I so much wondered at her fortuneas now, when you are come to assist wicked men, and thisafter a manner very extraordinary ; for I see that you arecome to support the vilest of men against us, and this withso great alacrity, as you could hardly put on the like in caseour metropolis had called you to her assistance against bar­barians. And if I had perceived that your army was com­posed of men like unto those who invited them, I had notdeemed your attempt so absurd: for nothing does so muchcement the minds of men together as the alliance there isbetween their manners. But now for these men who have in­vited you, if you were to examine them one by one, every oneof them would be found to have deserved ten thousand deaths;for the very rascality and offscouring of the whole country, whohave spent in debauchery their own substance, and by wayof trial beforehand have madly plundered the neighboringvillages and cities, in the upshot of all have privately runtogether into this holy city. They are robbers, who, by theirprodigious wickedness, have profaned this most sacred floor,and who arc to be now seen drinking themselves drunk inthe sanctuary, and expending the spoils of those whom theyhave slaughtered upon their insatiable bellies. As for themultitude that is with you, one may see them so decentlyadorned in their armor, as it would become them to be, had theirmetropolis called them to her assistance against foreigners.What can a man call this procedure of yours but the sportof fortune, when he sees a wholo nation coming to protect asink of wicked wretches ? I have for a good while been indoubt what it could possibly be that should move you to do