OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 245 sia, and the other, towns still adhering to Rome in that quar­ter to join the insurgents. But on the Roman side Ser-vius Sulpicius by his victory over the PaJignians cleared theway for hia advancing into Picenum and rendering aid toStrabo; Lafrenius was attacked by Strabo in front andtaken in rear by Sulpicius, and his camp was set on fire;he himself fell, the remnant of his troops fled in disorderand threw themselves into Asculum. So completely had thestate of affairs changed in Picenum, that the Italians nowfound themselves confined to Asculum as the Romans werepreviously to Firmum, and the war was thus once more con­verted into a siege. Lastly, there was added in the course of the year to the Umbro-two difficult and straggling wars in southern and central EtruscanItaly a third in the north. The state of matters apparently con"lcti-so dangerous for Rome after the first months of the warhad induced a great portion of the Umbrian, and isolatedEtruscan, communities to declare for the insurrection; sothat it became necessary to despatch against the UmbriansAulus Plotius, and against the Etruscans Lucius PorciusCato. Here however the Romans encountered a far lessenergetic resistance than in the Marsian and Samnite coun­tries, and maintained a most decided superiority in the field. Thus the severe first year of the war came to an end, Disadvan-leaving behind it, both in a military and political point of view, tigeonssorrowful memories and dubious prospects. In a military aggregatepoint of view, both armies of the Romans, the Marsian as 5?™,. °well as the Campanian, had been weakened and discouraged Tear of theby severe defeats; the northern army had been compelled war.especially to attend to the protection of the capital, thesouthern army at Neapolis had been seriously threatenedin its communications, as the insurgents could without muchdifficulty break forth from the Marsian or Samnite territoryand establish themselves between Rome and Naples; forwhich reason it was found necessary to draw at least a chainof posts from Cumae to Rome. In a political point of view,the insurrection had gained ground on all sides during thisfirst year of the war; the secession of Nola, the rapid capi­tulation of the strong and large Latin colony of Venusia,and the Umbro-Etruscan revolt were suspicious signs thatthe Roman symmachy was tottering to its very base andwas not in a position to sustain this fiery trial. They hadalready made the utmost demands on the burgesses; they