OCR Output MORGANTIA 371 MORIDUNUM. eikwbpmt part by lh« assistance of a bodyi adenrj traps from Murgantia and other'j» 4 tt» iaterinr, that that tyrant succeeded inlUtUigr bit de»potic power at Syracuse, u. a!ir. (Juiia. ixii. 2: Diod. xix. 6.) Morgantia> irpawlj rationed daring the Second Punictit Duitf <"» of Syracuse by Marcellusi tm *'by a Roman garrison, and greataioasa uf cm collected there; but the place. «"osj the inhabitants to the Carthaginian,-ncJ Huoiko, ud was for some time occupied byi» Snsrjju loder Hippocrates who from thencen>*i lie proceedings of tile siege- (Liv. .xxiv.KB.) It isj ultimately recovered by the Roman• :._!:.[ resulted again after the departure ofkirfeii tmsn Sicily, b. c 211; and being retaken""«(cxter Jl. Cornelius, both the town and itsr~.-jri tm usgned to a body of Spanish merce-«n «lu had deserted to the Romans under*w (lixxri.21.) Hvattie >i|iears to have still continued to 1«tfrini'TsW tMD under the Roman dominion. In*» mat Sard* insurrection of B. c 102 it wasbj tht leaden of the insurgents, Tryphooaj i^suuti; bat being a strong place and welltriil i/tmi a vigorous resistance; and it is not*» »i»Uw it ultimatelv fell into their hands or»»• (baa. xxxri. 4, 7. fcxc Phot pp. 53.3, 534.)6** npftsiedly notations its territory as one fertile • sis well cultivated, though it suffered se-aw trsn the exactions of Verres, (Cic Verr. • l>. 41) It was therefore in his time still a f*J town, and we find it again mentioned asMay (Li. 8. a. 14); so that it must be anPr a) tit part of Strabo, that he speaks of Mor-s> a city that no Icaiger existed. (Strab.Jr**0-) It may, however, very probably haveP ■ s state af great decay, as the notice of Pliny*» «Jr lahsMjoenl mention of it* name, and■ im una Mil trace of it is lost.Tu piUa of Morgantia is a subject of great"^at?. and it is ioipoasible to reconcile thefca,' nateawats of ancient writers. Most■atifl, tamcrer, concur in associating it with'**iaa lewms of the interior, that border on,n*7>*f the Srmaethua and its tributaries,Aryriasn, Assurua, &c (Diod. xL 78,U». Cie. Vtnr. I e,; SiL ItaL xiv. 265); and■*pea» testimony to the (June effect ia found*■ vaawnt that the Carthaginian generalW Ganoid m tie territory of Aoyrium, by!"»»• Caryos, am tie road leading to Mor-Pt (IW. xiv. 95.) The account of its siege■* Sard* War also indicates it as a place ofP» «t«tth, bnilt on a lofty bill. (Diod. xxxvi.») than it a very strange that Livy in onepajsafa rf the Kumar fleet as lying at Mor-P*» af it nam a place on the sea-coast , a'tally at Tarianca with all other accounts of its position, and in which there must probably besome mistake. (Liv. xxiv. 27.) On the whole wemay safely place Morgantia somewhere on the bor­ders of the fertile tract of plain that extends fromCatania inland along the Simeto and its tributaries;and probably on the hills between the Dittaino andthe Gurna Longa, two of the principal of those tribu­taries; but any attempt at a nearer determinationmust be purely conjectural. There exist coins of Morgantia, which have thename of the city at full, MOPrANTINnN: this isunfortunately effaced on the one figured in the pre­ceding column. [£. H. B.] MORGE'TES (Mofryn-rM), an ancient people ofsouthern Italy, who had disappeared before theperiod of authentic history, but are noticed by severalancient writers among the earliest inhabitants ofthat part of the peninsula, in connection with theOenotrians, Itali, and Siculi. Antiochus of Syracuse(op. Diow/s. i. 12) represented the Sieuli, Morgetesand Italietes as all three of Oenotrian race; andderived their names, according to the favouriteGreek custom, from three successive rulers of theOenotrians, of whom Italus was the first, Morgesthe second, and Siculus the third. This lastmonarch broke up the nation into two, separatingthe Siculi from their parent stock; and it wouldseem that the Morgetes followed the fortunes of theyounger branch; for Strabo, who also cites An­tiochus as bis authority, tells us that the Siculi andMorgetes at first inhabited the extreme southernpeninsula of Italy, until they were expelled fromthence by the Oenotrians, wlieu they crossed overinto Sicily. (Strab. vi. p. 257.) The geographeralso regards the name of Morgantium in Sicily asan evidence of the existence of the Morgetes in thatisland (Ibid. pp. 257. 270); but no other writernotices tbem there, and it is certain that in thetime of Thucydidea their name must have beeneffectually merged in that of the Siculi. In theEtymologicon Magnum, indeed, Morges is termed aking of Sicily: but it seems clear that a king ofthe Siculi is intended; for the fable there related,which calls Siris a daughter of Morges, evidentlyrefers to Italy alone. (A'lym. if. v. 2ip/s.) Allthat we can attempt to deduce as historical fromthe legends above cited, is that there appears tohave existed in the S. of Italy, at the time whenthe Greek colonists first became acquainted with it,a people or tribe bearing the name of Morgetes,whom they regarded as of kindred race with theChoncs and other tribes, whom they included underthe more general appellation of the Oenotrians.[Oinotkia.] Their particular place of abodecannot be fixed with certainty; but Strabo seemsto place them in the southern peninsula of Brut-tiuni, adjoining Khegium and Locri. (Strab. vi.p. 257.) [E.H.B.] MOIiGINXUM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placedby the Table on the road from Vienna (Vienne)to Alpis Cottia, and 14 M. P. short of Cularo(Grenoble). The place is Motraru. [G. L.] MORl'AH. [Jerusalem.] MORICAMBA (Mopiad/iSt), PtoL ii. 3. § 3), anestuary of Britain, Morecambe Bay, on the coast ofLancashire. [C. R. S-] MORIDU'NUM, in Britain, placed both by theAntonine Itin. and Geogr. Rav. near Isca of theDumnonii (Exeter'): it was one of the stationstermed iKamiones and mutationes, probably thelatter : its site has by no means been agreed upon by B B 2