OCR Output aN. 898.] 317 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. they should beat them. They also gave himthis farther advice; to send home those kingswhom he had brought as his auxiliaries; butto retain their army, and to set captains overit, instead of the kings; and to raise an armyout of their country, and let them be in theplace of the former who perished in thebattle, together with horses and chariots. Sohe judged their counsel to be good, and actedaccording to it in the management of his army.At the beginning of the spring Benhadadtook his army with him, and led it againstthe Hebrews; and when he was come to acertain city called Aphek, he pitched hiscamp in the great plain. Ahab also went tomeet him with his army, and encamped overagainst him: although his army were a verysmall one, if it were compared with hisenemies. But the prophet came again tohim, and told him, that God would give himthe victory; that he might demonstrate hisown power to be not only on the mountains,but on the plains also: which it seems wascontrary to the opinion of the Syrians. Sothey lay quiet in the camp seven days; buton the last of those days, when the enemycame out and put themselves in array, inorder to fight, Ahab also brought out hisarmy: and when the battle was joined, andthey fought stoutly, he put the enemy toflight, and pursued them, and pressed uponthem, and slew them. Nay, they were de足stroyed by their own chariots, and by oneanother. And even the few who escaped totheir own city Aphek, were also killed bythe walls falling upon them, being in numbertwenty-seven thousand.* Now there wasslain in this battle a hundred thousand more.But Benhadad, the king of the Syrians, fledaway, with certain others of his most faithfulservants, and hid himself in a cellar underground. And when these told him that the kings of Israel were humane and mercifulmen; and that they might make use of theusual manner of supplication, and obtain de足liverance from Ahab, in case he would givethem leave to go to him, he gave them leaveaccordingly. So they came to Ahab, clothedin sackcloth, and with ropes about theirheads:f for this was the ancient manner ofsupplication among the Syrians: and said,that Benhadad desired he would save him,and that he would ever be a servant to himfor that favour. Ahab replied, he was gladhe was alive, and not hurt in the battle.And he further promised him the samehonour and kindness that a man would shewto his brother. So they received assurancesupon oath from him, that when he came tohim he should receive no harm; and thenwent and brought him out of the cellarwherein he was hid, and brought him toAhab, as he sat in his chariot. So Ben足hadad worshipped him. And Ahab gavehim his hand, and made him come up to himin his chariot, and kissed him, and bade himbe of good cheer, and not to expect thatany mischief should be done to him. SoBenhadad returned him thanks, and pro足fessed that he would remember his kindnessall the days of his life; and promised hewould restore those cities of the Israeliteswhich the former kings had taken fromthem; and grant that he should have leaveto come to Damascus, as his forefathers hadcome to Samaria. So they confirmed theircovenants by oaths, and Ahab made himmany presents, and sent him back to hisown kingdom. And this was the conclusionof the war that Benhadad made against Ahaband the Israelites. But a certain prophet whose name wasMicaiah,J came to one of the Israelites, andbade him smite him on the head; for by so * Josephus's number, two myriads and seven thousand,agrees here with that in our other copies; as those thatwere slain by the fulling down of the walls of Aphek.But I suspected at first that this number in Josephus'spresent copies could not be his original number, becausehe calls them a few: which could hardly be said of somany as 27,000, and because of the improbability of thefall of a particular wall killing so many. Yet when Iconsider that Josephus's next words, how the rest whichwere slain in the battle were ten other myriads ; that 27,000are but a few in comparison of 100,000; and that it wasnot a wall, as in our English version, but the wall, or theentire walls of the city that fell down, as in all the origi- nals, I lay aside that suspicion; and firmly believe thatJosephus himself hath, with the rest, given us the justnumber, 27,000. The Aphek is by Josephus justly calledthe Syrians' city: as probably one of them which ourBible, and Josephus speak of presently; and which thisBenhadad's predecessors had taken from the Israelites,and was now to be restored. t This manner of supplication for men's lives amongthe Syrians, with ropes or halters about their heads ornecks, is, I suppose, no strange thing in later ages, evenin our own country. J It is here very remarkable, that in Josephus's copythis prophet, whose denunciation of a disobedient person's 3K2