OCR Output SCILLUS. SCIRI. 931 fi r.\ wit calls it merely a " city of Italy." Weansrdore no doe to its position; for even itsttuiitn cn toe Tyrrhenian sea is a mere inferenceii ihe nanner in which it is mentioned by Hero-•iu in conjunction with Laiis. But there exist at■•pri. «o the Gulf of Polieastro, extensive remains'u saeiait city, which are generally considered,I apparently not without reason, as indicatingwatt of Sodrus. They are said to consist of thenuns of a theatre and other public buildings of« istient valla, and constructions around theat (Aalmini, Lucania, part ii. c. 11; Rmnanelli,4. L av 377.) This last is a remarkable land-ixal taiia, though of small extent; and it is-nisr that, even if the town had ceased to exist,i illusion should be found to the existence of this-it? port, on a coast almost wholly destitute ofMai harbours. But the high mountains whichat it hi and debar it from all communication withr l&terior probably prevented it from ever attain-[ to say importance. Sapri is at the present dayrnn fishing Tillage, about 6 miles E. of /Wi­lt* [E. H. B ]SCILLUS (IjciAAoOi: Etk. SkiAAoiWios), an of Triphylia, a district of Elis, situated 20ru sooth of Olympia. In B.C. 572 the Scil-itu* assisted Pyrrhus, king of Pisa, in makingr nr>n the Eleiaus; but they were completelyttiarrd by the latter, and both Pisa and Scillustrued to the ground. (Paus. v. 6. § 4, vi. 22..) .Villus remained desolate till about n. c. 392,i ihe Lacedaemonians, who had a few yearsn-aahr compelled the Eleians to renounce theirfwnacy over their dependent cities, colonisedbat and pare it to Xenophon, then an exile from«. Xestopboa resided here more than twentyi bat was expelled from it by the Eleians soon'!h» battle of Leuctra, B. a 371. He has leftdescription of the place, which be says was silu-10 stadia from the Sacred Grove of Zeus, onn*l to Olympia from Sparta. It stood upon the'Minus, which was also the name of the rivertf by the temple of Artemis at Ephesus, and■tf latter it abounded in fish and shell-fish.\Ts,phon, from a tenth of the spoils acquired inLsntic campaign, dedicated a temple to Artemis,■UZne of the celebrated temple at Ephesus, andMed a festival to the goddess. Scillus stood< v.vjda and meadows, and afforded abundantit for cattle; while the neighbouring moun-•eprJied wild hogs, roebucks, and stags. (Xen.lv. 3.$* ~—13.) When Pausanias visiteda fire centuries afterwards the temple of Ar-■VilJ remained, and a statue of Xenophon, made'• fiu- marble. (Paus. r. 6. § 5, seq.; romp. rut pp. 344, 387; Plat, de ExsU. p. 603.)i art ao remains to identify Scillus, but thereI u> doubt that it stood in the woody vale, ini is a email village called Jiata, and tlironghnmi a river Calling into the Alplieius nearlyt» the Cladena- (Leake, JUorta, vol. ii. p.en. Peiopomesiacn, p. 9; Boblaye, Rechrrehit,IU: Curtioa, Peiopomesos, vol. ii. p. 91.)INCOMAGUS (3«<ry«W7°0- This place isrrrtiooral by Strabo (iv. p. 179), who says,•» is speaking of one of the passes of thelist from Kbrodunum (Embrvn) on thesadt through Brigantium (Briancon) and'iocus and the pan of the Alps to Ocelum,■a of that land of Cottius is 99 miles; and atI:aly begins: and the distance -from Scincomagus to Ocelum is 27 mile*. (See Groslnrd'snote on the passage, Trantl. Strab. i. p. 309.)Pliny also (ii. 108) makes Italy extend to theAlps at Scincomagns, and then he gives the breadthof Gallia from Scincomagns to the Pyrenees andUliberis. (See the notes and emendations in Har-duin's edition.) It appears then that Scincomaguswas at the foot of the Alps on the Italian side: andif the position of Ocelum were certain, we might pro­bably determine that of Scincomagus, which mustbe on the line of the passage over the Alps bythe Mont Genivre. It was a great mistake ofBouche and Harduin to suppose that Scincomagnswas the same as Segusio or Suta. D'Anvilleguesses that Scincomagus may be a place which hecalls " Chamlat de Sipvin. at the entrance of theCol de Cestriires, which leads from the valley ofSfzane (Cesano) into that of Pra-gelat" As usual,he relies on the resemblance of the ancient andmodern names, which is often useful evidence; for11 magus" in Scincomagus is merely a commonGallic name for town. D'Anville also supposes thntthis position of Scincomagus is confirmed by the siteof Ocelum, as be has fixed it. [Ocelum.] But allthis is vague. [G. L.] SCIO'NE (2kic6ki>,Herod, vii. 123.viii. 128; Timeiv. 120—123,133, v. 32; Strab. vii. p. 330 ; Pomp.Mela, ii. 2. § 11; Plin. iv. 17: Eth. 1*mvaios,Herod.; Zmurcit, Steph. B. >. v.), the chief town onthe isthmus of Pallene in Macedonia. Although itcalled itself Achaean, like many other colonial towns,in default of any acknowledged mother-city, it tracedits origin to warriors returning from Troy. Under con­cert with Brasidas the Scionarans proclaimed their re­volt from Athens, two days after the truce was swom,March, B.C. 421. Brasidas, by a speech which ap­pealed to Grecian feeling, wound up the citizens tothe highest pitch of enthusiasm. The Athenians,furious at the refusal of the Lacedaemonians to giveup this prize, which they had gained after the truce,passed a resolution, under the instigation of Cleonto kill all the grown-up male inhabitants of theplace, and strictly besieged the town, which Bra­sidas was unable to relieve, though he had pre­viously conveyed away the women and children to aplace of safety. After a long blockade Scione sur­rendered to the Athenians, who put all the men ofmilitary age to death, and sold the women andchildren to slavery. The site of this ill-fated citymust be sought for between the capes Paltitriand Potkthi. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii.p. 157.) [E.B.J.] SCIRA'DIUM. [Saijvmis.] SCIlil or SCIRRI, a population variously placedby various authors. The first who mentions themis Pliny (iv. 13. s. 27), who fixes thein in Eningia,i. c. in the parts to the NE. of the extreme fron­tier of what he and his contemporaries call Genna-nia, i. e. East Prussia, Courland, Livonia, Esthimia,and part of Emnland," qmdam haec habitari ad Vis-tulsm usque iluvium a Sarmatjs, Venedis, Seine,Hirris,tradunt" No other author either mentionsthe Hirri or places the Sciri thus far northward. The most interesting notice of them is in the so-called Olbian inscription (Buckh, Inter, no. 2058).wherein they are mentioned as dangerous neighboursto the town of Olbia along with the Galatae, theThisamatae, the Scythae, and the Sandaratae (Zeuss,lHe heutschen, rfc, #.P. Galatae); and, doubtless,the neighbouring town of Olbia was their truelocality. 3 ii 1