OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 417 (£618).* How quickly the prices of ornamental estatesincreased, is shown by the instance of the Misenian villa, forwhich Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, paid 75,000sesterces (£718), and Lucius Lucullus, consul in 680, thirty- 74.three times that price. The villas, and the luxurious ruraland sea-bathing life, rendered Baiae and generally the districtaround the Bay of Naples the El Dorado of noble idleness.Games of hazard, in which the stake was not any more than Games,in the Italian dice-playing a trifle, became common, and asearly as 639 a censorial edict was issued against them. 115.Gauze fabrics, which displayed rather than concealed the Dress.figure, and silken clothing began to displace the old woollendresses among women and even among men. Against theinsane extravagance in the employment of foreign perfumerythe sumptuary laws interfered in vain. But the real focus in The table,which the brilliance of this genteel life was concentrated wasthe table. Extravagant prices—as much as 100,000 ses­terces (£1050)—were paid for an exquisite cook. Houseswere constructed with special reference to this object, andthe villas in particular along the coast were provided withsalt-water tanks of their own, in order that they might fur­nish marine fishes and oysters at any time fresh to the table.A dinner was already described as poor, at which the fowlswere served up to the guests entire and not the choice por­tions merely, and at which the guests were expected to eat ofthe several dishes and not simply to taste them. They pro­cured at a great expense foreign delicacies and Greek wine,which had to be sent round at least once at every respectablerepast. At table above all the Romans displayed theirhost of slaves ministering to luxury, their bands of musicians,their dancing-girls, their elegant furniture, their carpetsglittering with gold or pictorially embroidered, their purplehangings, their antique bronzes, their rich silver plate.Against such displays the sumptuary laws were primarilydirected, which were issued more frequently (593, 639, 665, 161. l II673) and in greater detail than ever; a number of delicacies 89. 81.and wines were therein totally prohibited, for others a maxi- * In the house, which Sulla lived in when a young man, he paid for theground floor a rent of 3000 sesterces, and the tenant of the upper story arent of 2000 sesterces (Plutarch, Suit. 1) ; which, capitalized at two-thirds ofthe usual interest on capital, yields nearly the above amount. This was acheap house. The fact, that a rent of 6000 sesterces (oil. 10s.) in the capitalIs called a high one in the case of the year 629 Veil. ii. 100), must have beendue to special circumstances. TOL. III. 2 K