OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 449 More readable and adroit imitations of Greek tragedy Accius.were furnished by Pacuvius' younger contemporary, LuciusAccius, son of a freedman of Pisaurum (584—after 651), 170-103.with the exception of Pacuvius the only notable tragic poetof the seventh century. An active author also in the fieldof literary history and grammar, he doubtless laboured tointroduce instead of the crude manner of his predecessorsgreater purity of language and style into Latin tragedy;jet his inequality and incorrectness were emphatically cen­sured by men of strict observance like Lueilius. Far greater activity and far more important results are Greekapparent in the field of comedy. At the very commence- comedy,ment of this period a remarkable reaction set in against thesort of comedy hitherto prevalent and popular. Its repre- Terence,sentative Tereutius (558-595) is one of the most interest- 196-159.ing phenomena, in a historical point of view, in Romanliterature. Born in Phoenician Africa, brought in early youthas a slave to Rome and there initiated into the Greek cul­ture of the day, he seemed from the very first destined forthe vocation of restoring to the new Attic comedy that cos­mopolitan character, which in its adaptation to the Romanpublic under the rough hands of Naevius, Plautus, and theirassociates it had in some measure lost. Even in the selec­tion and employment of models the contrast is apparentbetween him and that predecessor whom alone we can nowcompare with him. Plautus chooses his pieces from thewhole range of the newer Attic comedy, and by no meansdisdains the livelier and more popular comedians, such asPhilemon; Terence keeps almost exclusively to Menander,the most elegant, polished, and chaste of all the poets of theNewer comedy. The method of working up several Greekpieces into one Latin is retained by Terence, because in factfrom the state of the case it could not be avoided by theRoman editors; but it is handled with incomparably moreskill and carefulness. The Plautine dialogue beyond doubtdeparted very frequently from its models; Terence boastsof the verbal adherence of his imitations to the originals,by which however we are not to understand a verbaltranslation in our sense. The not unfrequently coarse,but always effective laying on of Roman local tints overthe Greek ground-work, which Plautus was fond of, iscompletely and designedly banished from Terence; not anallusion puts one in mind of Rome, not a proverb, hardly VOL. III. 2 G r