OCR Output an. 1096.] 221 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them, he is the man who ought to he by allhonoured, with the testimony of a virtuous orcourageous man. For as to those that go outto war with hopes of success, and that theyshall return safe; supposing they should haveperformed some glorious action; I think thosedo not well who call these valiant men, as somany historians and other writers who treatof them are wont to do; although I confessthose do justly deserve some commendationalso. But those only may be styled coura­geous and bold in great undertakings, anddespisers of adversities, who imitate Saul.For as for those that do not know what theevent of war will be as to themselves, andthough they do not faint in it, but deliverthemselves up to uncertain futurity, and aretossed this way and that way, this is not sovery eminent an instance of a generous mind;although they happen to perform many greatexploits. But when men's minds expect nogood event; but they know beforehand theymust die; and that they must undergo thatdeath in the battle also; after this, neither tobe affrighted, nor to be astonished at the ter­rible fate that is coming; but to go directlyupon it, when they know it beforehand: thisit is that I esteem the character of a man trulycourageous. Accordingly this Saul did; andthereby demonstrated that all men who de­sire fame after they are dead, are so to act,as they may obtain the same. This especiallyconcerns kings; who ought not to think itenough in their high station that they are notwicked in the government of their subjects,but to be more than moderately good to them.1 could say more than this about Saul, andhis courage; the subject offering matter suf­ficient; but that I may not appear to run outimproperly in his commendation, I returnagain to that history from which I made thisdigression. Now when the Philistines had pitched theircamp, and had taken account of their forcesaccording to their nations, kingdoms, andgovernments, king Achish came last of all,with his own army. After whom came David,with his six hundred armed men. And whenthe commanders of the Philistines saw himthey asked the king, whence those Hebrewscame? and at whose invitation? He an­swered, that it was David, who was fledaway from his master Saul; and he had en­ tertained him when he came to him; andthat now he was willing to make him this re­quital for his favours, and to avenge himselfupon Saul; and so was become his confede­rate. The commanders, however, complainedthat he had taken him for a confederate whowas an enemy; and gave him counsel to keephim away, lest he should unawares do hisfriends a great deal of mischief by enter­taining him. For that he afforded him anopportunity of being reconciled to his masterby doing mischief to the army. They there­upon desired him, out of a prudent foresightof this to send him away, with his four hun­dred armed men, to the place he had givenhim for his habitation. For this was thatDavid whom the virgins celebrated in theirhymns, as having destroyed many ten thou­sands of the Philistines. When the king ofGath heard this, he thought they spake well;so he called David, and said to him, " As formyself, I can bear witness that thou hastshewn great diligence and kindness aboutme; and on that account it was that I tookthee for my confederate. However, what Ihave done does not please the commandersof the Philistines. Go therefore within a day'stime to the place I have given thee withoutsuspecting any harm, and there keep mycountry, lest any of our enemies should makean incursion upon it; which will be one partof that assistance I expect from thee." SoDavid returned to Ziklag, as the king of Gathbid him. But it happened that while he wasgone to the assistance of the Philistines, thenations of the Amalekites had made an in­cursion, and taken Ziklag before, and hadburnt it; and when they had taken a greatdeal of other prey out of that place, and outof the other parts of the Philistines' countrythey departed. Now when David found that Ziklag waslaid waste, and that it was all spoiled, andthat his own wives, and the wives of his com­panions, with their children, were made cap­tives; he presently rent his clothes; weepingand lamenting, together with his friends. Andindeed he was so cast down with these mis­fortunes, that at length tears themselves failedhim. He was also in danger of being stonedto death by his companions; who were greatlyafflicted at the captivity of their wives andchildren; for they laid the blame upon him Xx2