OCR Output 406 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. CHAP. VIII. Herod took vp Alexander, and bound him: tehom yet Ar-chelaus, king of Cappadocia, reconciled to his father, Herod,again. § 1. I>UT still the affairs of Herod's family were no better,but perpetually more troublesome. Now this accident happened,which arose from no decent occasion, but proceeded so faras to bring great difficulties upon him. There were certain eu­nuchs which the king had, and on account of their beauty wasvery fond of them; and the care of bringing him drink was en­trusted to one of them, of bringing him his supper to another,and of putting him to bed to the third, who almost managed theprincipal affairs of the government; and there was one told theking that these eunuchs were corrupted by Alexander the king'sson, with great sums of money: And when they were asked,whether Alexander had had criminal conversation with them?they confessed it, but said they knew of no farther mischief ofhis against his father, but when they were more severely tor­tured, and were in the utmost extremity, and the tormentors,out of compliance with Antipater, stretched the rack to the veryutmost, they said, that Alexander bare great ill-will and in­nate hatred to his father : and that he told them, that Herod de­spaired to live much longer; and that in order to cover his greatage, he coloured his hair black, and endeavoured to conceal whatwould discover how old he was; but that if he would applyhimself to him, when he should attain the kingdom, which, inspite of his father, could come to no one else, he should quicklyhave the first place in that kingdom under him, for that he wasnow ready to take the kingdom, not only as his birthright, butby the preparations he had made for obtaining it, because a greatmany of the rulers, and a great many of his friends, were of hisside, and those no ill men neither, ready both to do and to sufferwhatsoever should come on that account. 2. When Herod heard this confession, he was all over angerand fear, some parts seeming to him reproachful, and some madehim suspicious of dangers that attended him, insomuch that onboth accounts he was provoked, and bitterly afraid lest somemore heavy plot was laid against him than he should be thenable to escape from; whereupon he did not now make an opensearch, but sent about spies to watch such as he suspected, for hewas now overrun with suspicion and hatred against all abouthim; and indulging abundance of those suspicions, in order to hispreservation, he continued to suspect those that were guiltless;