OCR Output 114 LACRINGI. LACONIA. Taenarnm. Kiplity Btadia beyond Trinssus wasHeisis, also upon tlie const. The road from Spartato lb-los followed the Eurotas the greater part ofthe way; and Leake noticed in several parts of ther'»ck rut* of chariot wheels, evidently the vestigesof the ancient carriago-road. (Leake, Aforea, vol. i.p. 194.) Thirty stadia south of Hclos on the coastwas Acriae; and sixty stadia south of Acriae,Asopus, the later name of Cyparissia. BetweenAcriae and Asopus, Ptolemy mentions a townliiAXMNA (BioVSiia. iii. 16. §9), the name ofwhich occurs in an inscription in the form of Biadi-mipolis(Bfa5[ii']ouiroAfcray, Bockh, Inte. No. 1336).Between Asopus and Acriae was an inland plain,called Leuce, containing in the interior a town ofthis name, and in the same nei^hlwurhood was1'i.kiak. Returning to the coast. 50 stadia southof Asopus, was a temple of Asclepius, in a spotcalled Hypehtki.eatl'M. Two hundred stadia southof Asopus was tlie promontory and peninsula Omu-cjnatiil's, connected with the mainland hy a narrowisthmus, which is, however, generally covered withwater. Between Onugnathns and Malea is a con-sidenihle bay, called Bocnticos Sinus, from the townof Bokae, situated at its head. In this neighbour-1iih»1 were three ancient towns, called Etis, Aphro-MsiAs.aml Side,which were founded by the Dorians;the two former on the Boeaticus Sinus, and the otheron the eastern sea north of Cape Malea. BetweenIWae and Malea was Nympiiakum (NiVtfwuo*' orNtVfiaiue), with a cave near the sea. in which wasa fountain of sweet water. Pausanias (iii. 23. § 2)calls Xympliaeum a Aijuirj, hut, as there is no hikeIn this neighbourhood, Boblayc conjectures (AV-cherelui, <fc. p. 99) that we should read Ay"f", andplaces Nymphaeuin at the harbour of Santa Marina,where a fountain of water issues from a grotto.The promontory Malea (MoArfa, Steph. B. t. v.et alii; MaAt'n. Herod, i. 82; Strab. viii. p. 368),still called Sfaliti, the most southerly point in(Irecce with the exception of Taenarum, was muchdreaded by tbe ancient sailors on account of thewinds and waves of the two seas, which here meettogether. Hence arose the proverb, "after doublingMalea, forget your country" (Strab. viii. p. 378),and the epithet of Statins, "formidatum Maleaccaput" (Theb. ii. 33). On the promontory therewas a statue of Apollo. (.Steph. B. ». r. Ai0ii<nor:'AwJaXmc MuAfdTnj, Pans. iii. 12. § 8.) South ofMalea was the island Cvtiif.ha. Following theeastern coast we first come to Side, already men­tioned; then to Kpidelium, 100stadia from Malea;next to KpiDAritus I.imkka, and successively toZarax, Cypiiaxta, and 1'hasiae or Brasiae, ofwhich the last is near the routines of Argolis.The numbers in Pausanias, giving the distances (»fthese places from one another, are corrupt: seeCtphanta. In tbe interior, between the Kurotasand the south-western slopes of Pamon, Pausaniasmentions Geroktiirae, situated 120 stadia northof Acriae; Mark's, 100 stadia east of Gerontliiw:Gt.vppiA, aLso called (Ilympia, north of Mantis; andSKi.fKfs, 20 stadia from Geronthrae. Ketuming now to Gythinm, we proceed to enu­merate the towns to the right, that is, west andsouth, of this place, according to the plan of Pan-aanias (iii. 24. § 6, acq.); in other wonts, the townsin the jieninsnla through which Mount Taygetusnins. Forty stadia south of Gythinm was Lasupon the oust, which some writers call Asine.Thirty stadia from a bill near Las was Uvpsi, in the interior; and a little below Las was the rrnrSmcnus (Zm^^oi), rising in Mt. Tay^etoa, whichPausanias praises for the excellence of its water,now the river of PaMard. Immediately sooth ofthis river was the temple of Artemis Dictynna, on spromontory now called Agheranot; and in the sans?neighbourhood was a village called by I'susana*Araeuus or Araenum, where Las, the founder i«the city of Las, was said to have been burmi.South of the promontory of Agheranoi is a stream,now called the river of Vkikoea, the Sctra*(2««''oas) of Pausanias (iii. 25. § 1), beyond whichwere an altar and temple of Zeus: Uierc are stillsome ancient remains on the right side of the rivernear its mouth. Further south is the peninsula atSkuturi, inclosing a bay of the same name, which bconjectured to be the Sinus Aegilodes of Pbjty(iv. 5. s. 8); if so, we must place here Aegila, whichis mentioned incidentally by Pausanias (iv. 17. §1)as a town of Laconia. Inland 40 stadia from theriver Scyras lay Pyiikiiichi's. SE. of Pyrrbichnion the coast was Tectiirone. Between Teutonic*and the Tacnarian peninsula no town is mentioned,but at a place on the coast called Kiirmia there sreconsiderable remains of two temples. The Tarnarisapeninsula is connected with that of Taviretns by aaisthmus half a mile across, and contains two har­bours, named Psamatiics and Aciiiixeks Poirrts[sec Taenarlm]: the extremity of the peninsuiiis C. Matapdn. Bounding the latter point, andascending southwards, we come to the town of Tae-narum. afterwards called Caenepous, 40 stadisabove the Taenarian isthmus. Thirty stadia N. ofCaencpolis was the commencement of the promom-jfrTimtiDES, nearly as large as the Taenarian penin­sula, but connected with the mainland by a muchwider isthmus. On this promontory were the towmof Hippoi.a and Mkssa. North of Messa wasOetyi.is; but the distance of 150 stadia, assijcnlby Pausanias between the two places, is too much.[Oetyu■«.] Eighty stadia north of Oetyln* wisThai-AMAE. situated inland, and 20 stadia frorc.Thalamae waa Pkphscs, upon tbe coast Boththe.-e towns were upon the lesser PAWisra, bowcalled the Milca. which tbe Messenians amid wasoriginally the boundary of their territory. (Strab.viii. p. 361 j 1'aus. iii. 26. § 3.) Tbe districts northof this river were taken away from the I-aeedae-monians by Philip in B.C. 338, and granted to toeMessenians; but it is probable that the hater didnot long retain possession of them. In the time ofthe Roman empire they formed part of Eleuthrrv-Laconia. (Leake, Ptln/xmncsiaca, p. 179.) Twentystadia north of Pephnus, upon the roast, w»Leuctra or Leccthim ; and 60 stadia north ofthe latter, Cari>amyi.e, at the distance of 8 »t»d>»from the sea. North of Cardamyle waa Gkkxma.the most northerly of the KleuiheroLaconiao towns.Thirty stadia from Uereuia, in the interior, w»»Alaooma. (On the geography of Laconia, see Leake, Mi"**and Pflopmtnrfuit-a; Bohlaye, AVeAVrrAfSt, cfr..l!os«, AWVn im PrUipcmnet and \Vma\rmr* ™(Jrinhmbmd; Curtius. Pclovometoe.)LACO'NICUS SINUS. [Laco».a.]LACON1MURGI. [Ckltica; Vkttoiio.]LACRINGI, mentioned by Capitolimss (M. Am-Imin. c. 22), by Woo Cabins (Ixxxi. 12). a»Jby Petrns Patricius (Ejceerpt- Legal, p. 1S4. ed.Bonn), along with th» Aarnxoi and Brut. Tbrywere either Dacian or on the Daciau frontier, aal