OCR Output 402 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to their villages and cities; as every one'sability should require. And when lie hadadded this promise, that he himself, withhis servants, would assist them, he dissolvedthe assembly. So the Jews prepared forthe work. This is the name they are called by fromthe day that they came up from Babylon;which is taken from the tribe of Judah, whichcame first to these places, and thence boththey and the country gained that appella­tion. Now when the Ammonites, and Moabites,and Samaritans, and all that inhabited Coele-syria heard that the building went on apace,they took it heinously: and proceeded to laysnares for them, and to hinder their intentions.They also slew many of the Jews; and soughthow they might destroy Nehemiah himself,by hiring some of the foreigners to kill him.They also put the Jews in fear, and disturbedthem, and spread abroad rumours, as if manynations were ready to make an expeditionagainst them: by which means they wereharassed, and had almost left off the building.But none of these things could deter Nehe­miah from being diligent about the work. Heonly set a number of men about him, as aguard to his body: and so unweariedly per­severed therein, and was insensible of anytrouble, out of his desire to perfect this work.•And thus did he attentively and with greatprecaution take care of his own safety: notthat he feared death; but out of this persua­sion, that if he were dead, the walls for hiscitizens would never be raised. He also gave-orders that the builders should keep theirranks, and have their armour on while theywere building. Accordingly the mason hadhis sword on,* as well as Tie that brought thematerials for building. He also appointedthat their shields should lie very near them;and he placed trumpets at every five hundred * Nehemiah iv. 18. t It may not be improper to remark here, with whatan unusual accuracy Josephus determines these years ofXerxes, in which the walls of Jerusalem were built; viz.that Nehemiah came with his commission in the 25th ofXerxes; that the walls were two years and four monthsin building; and that they were finished on the 28th ofXerxes. It may also be remarked farther, that Josephushardly ever mentions more than one infallible astrono­mical character, I mean an eclipse of the moon: and thisa little before the death of Herod the Great, XVII. 6. feet, and charged them, that if their enemiesappeared, they should give notice of it to thepeople, that they might fight in their armour,and their enemies might not fall upon themnaked. He also went about the compass ofthe city by night, being never discouraged,neither about the work itself, nor about hisown diet and sleep: for he made no use ofthose things for his pleasure, but out of ne­cessity. And this trouble he underwent ffortwo years and four months: for in so long atime was the wall built: in the twenty-eighthyear of the reign of Xerxes^ in the ninthmonth. Now when the walls were finished,Nehemiah and the multitude offered sacrificesto God for building of them; and they con­tinued in feasting eight days. However, whenthe nations which dwelt in Syria heard thatthe building of the wall was finished, theyhad indignation at it. But when Nehemiahsaw that the city was thin of people, he ex­horted the priests and the Levites, that theywould leave the country, and remove them­selves to the city, and there continue; andhe built them houses at his own expense: andhe commanded that part of the people whichwere employed in cultivating the land, tobring the tithes of their fruits to Jerusalem;that the priests and Levites having whereofthey might live perpetually, 'might not leavethe divine worship. Accordingly they heark­ened to the constitutions of Nehemiah: bywhich means the city of Jerusalem came tobe fuller of people than it was before. Sowhen Nehemiah had done many other excel­lent things, and things worthy of commenda­tion, in a glorious manner, he came to a greatage, and then died. He was a man of a goodand righteous disposition, and very ambitiousto make his own people happy. And he leftthe walls of Jerusalem as an eternal monu­ment for himself. Now this was done in thedays of Xerxes. Now on these two chronological characters, in great mea­sure depend some of the most important points belongingto Christianity; viz. The explication of Daniel's seventyweeks, the duration !of our Saviour's ministry, and thetime of his death, in correspondence to those seventyweeks. Though Josephus's own chronology was so dif­ferent from ours, as exhibited in Ptolemy's Canon, that itwas impossible he should have regard to any such cor­respondence.J An. 459.