OCR Output 0. I.J SIEGEOFGAMALA. 79 ascended on its north side; its top is a plain of twenty-sixfurlongs, and all encompassed with a wall. Now Josephuserected this so long a wall in forty days' time, and furnished:t with other materials, and with water from below ; for theinhabitants only made use of rain-water: as, therefore, therewas a great multitude of people gotten together upon thismountain, Vespasian sent Placidus with six hundred horsementhither. Now, as it was impossible for him to ascend themountain, he invited many of them to peace, by the offer ofhis right hand for their security, and of his intercession forthem. Accordingly they came down, but with a treacherousdesign, as well "as he had the like treacherous design uponthem on the other side; for Placidus spoke mildly to them, asaiming to take them when he got them into the plain; theyalso came down as complying with his proposals, but it was inorder to fall upon him when he was not aware of it: however,Placidus's stratagem was too hard for theirs; for when theJews began to fight, he pretended to run away, and when theywere in pursuit of the Romans, he enticed them a great wayalong the plain, and then made his horsemen turn back;whereupon he beat them, and slew a great number of them,and cut off the retreat of the rest of the multitude, and hin­dered their return. So they left Tabor, and fled to Jerusa­lem, while the people of the country came to terms with him,for their water failed them, and so they delivered up themountain and themselves to Placidus. 9. But of the people of Gamala those that were of thebolder sort fled away and hid themselves, while the more in­firm perished by famine; but the men of war sustained thesiege till the two and twentieth day of the month Hyperbe-reteus [Tisri,] when three soldiers of the fifteenth legion,about the morning watch, got under a high tower that was stead of 26: since a mountain of only 3 furlongs perpendicular altitude mayeasily require near an hour's ascent, and the circumference of an oval of theforegoing quantity is near 6 furlongs. Nor certainly could such a vast cir­cumference ns 20 furlongs or 3 and a quarter miles, at that height, be en­compassed with a wall, including a trench and other fortifications, perhapsthose still remaining, ibid, in the small interval of 40 days, as Josephus hereeays they were by himself. <