OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE* 193 couraged his subjects and allies to march with the successors of Constantino underthe faithful and victorious banner of the cross. When the legions of Lucullus andPompey first passed the Euphrates, they blushed at their easy victory over thenatives of Armenia. But the long experience of war had hardened the minds andbodies of that effeminate people; their zeal and bravery were approved in the ser­vice of a declining empire; they abhorred and feared the usurpation of the houseof Sassan, and the memory of persecution envenomed their pious hatred of theenemies of Christ. The limits of Armenia, as it had been ceded to the emperorMaurice, extended as far as the Araxes; the river submitted to the dignity of abridge;(l) and Heraclius, in the footsteps of Mark Antony, advanced towards thecity of Tauris or Gandzaca,(2) the ancient and modern capital of one of the pro­vinces of Media. At the head of forty thousand men, Chosroes himself had re­turned from some distant expedition to oppose the progress of the Roman arms;but he retreated on the approach of Heraclius, declining the generous alternative ofpeace or battle. Instead of half a million of inhabitants, which have been ascribedto Tauris under the reign of the Sophys, the city contained no more than threethousand houses: but the value of the royal treasures was enhanced by a tradi­tion, that they were the spoils of Crossus, which had been transported by Cyrus,from the citadel of Sardes. The rapid conquests of Heraclius were suspendedonly by the winter season; a motive of prudence or superstition,(3) determined hisretreat into the province of Albania, along the shores of the Caspian; and his tentswere most probably pitched in the plains of Mogan,(4) the favourite encampmentof oriental princes. In the course of this successful inroad, he signalized the zealand revenge of a Christian emperor: at his command, the soldiers extinguishedthe fire, and destroyed the temples of the Magi: the statues of Chosroes, who as­pired to divine honours, were abandoned to the flames; and the ruins of ThebarmaorOrmia,(5) which had given birth to Zoroaster himself, made some atonementfor the injuries of the holy sepulchre. A purer spirit of religion was shown in therelief and deliverance of fifty thousand captives. Heraclius was rewarded bytheir tears and grateful acclamations; but this wise measure, which spread thefame of his benevolence, diffused the murmurs of the Persians against the prideand obstinacy of their own sovereign. Amidst the glories of a succeeding campaign, Heraclius is almost lost to our eyes,and to those of the Byzantine historians. (6) From the spacious and fruitful plains ofAlbania, the emperor appears to follow the chain of Hyrcanian mountains, to de­scend into the province of Media or Irak, and to carry his victorious arms as faras the royal cities of Casbin and Ispahan, which had never been approached by aRoman conqueror. Alarmed by the danger of his kingdom, the powers of Chos­roes were already recalled from the Nile and the Bosphorus, and three formida­ble armies surrounded, in a distant and hostile land, the camp of the emperor.The Colchian allies prepared to desert his standard; and the fears of the bravestveterans were expressed, rather than concealed, by their desponding silence."Be not terrified," said the intrepid Heraclius, " by the multitude of your foes.With the aid of Heaven, one Roman may triumph over a thousand barbarians.But if we devote our lives for the salvation of our brethren, we shall obtain the (1) Et Pontem indignatus Araxes. Virgil. £neid, viii. 728. Toe river Araxes Is noisy, rapid, vehement, and, with the melting: of the mows, irresistible; the strongest amimost massy bridges are swept away by the current; and lits indignation is attested by the vuins of manyarches near the old town of Zulfa. Voyages de Chardin, torn. i. p. 252. (2) Chardin, torn. s. p. 255—259. With the orientals (d'Herbelot, Bibliotb. Orient, p. 834.) he ascribes (hefoundation of Tauris, or Tebris, to Zobeide. the wife of the famous kbalif Haroun Alrashid; hut it appearsto have been more ancient; and the names of Gandzaca, Gazaca. Gaza, are expressive of the royal treasure.The number of five hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants is reduced by Chardin from one million to ont;hundrrd thousand, the popular estimate. (3) He opened the gospel, and applied or interpreted the first casual passage to the name and situation ofAlbania. Theophanes, p. 258. (4) The heath of Mogan, between the Cyrus and the Araxes. is sixtv parasanes in lenerth. and twenty inbreadth (Olearius, p. 1023,1024..) abounding in waters and fruitful pastures (Hist, de Nadir Shah, translatedby Mr. Jones from a Persian MS. part ii. p. 2,3.) See the encampments of Timur (Hist, par Sfcerefeddin AH,rib. v. c. 37. lib. vi. c. 13.,; and the coronation of Nadir Shah (Hist. Persanne, p. 3—13. and the English life ofMr. Jones, p. 64,65.) (5) Thebarma lml Ormia near the lake Spanto, are proved to be the same city by D'Anville (Memoires dePAeademie, torn, xxviii. p. 564,565.) It is honoured as the birth place of Zoroaster according to the Persians(Schultens, Index Geograpb. p. 48.;) and their tradition is fortified by M. Perron d'Anquetil (Mem. de I'AcaaLdes Inscript. torn. xxxi. p. 375.,) with some texts from his, or their Zendavesta. (6) I cannot find, and (what is much more) M. D'AnviMe does not attempt to seek the Salban, Tarentnm,territorv of the Huns, ore. mentioned by Theoplianei (p. 260—262.) Antychins (Anna), 'nm. ii. p. 231, 232.)an insufficient author, names Aspahan; and Casbin is most probably the cily of Sapor. Ispahan is twenty-four days'journev from Tauris. and Casbin half way between t!tem (Voyages de Taveniier, torn, i. p. ft3-*82.) Vol.. III. 2"T