OCR Output 394 THE DECLINE AND FALL possible that such an impatient spirit could find any lasting tran-»quillity. Retirement Diocletian, who* from a servile origin, had' raised himself to the os Diocletian «• » « - in <•«•<■•«•• * at Salona. throne, pasted th.e rune last years of his Use in a private condition, Reason had dictated, and content seems to have accompanied hisretreat, in which he enjoyed for a long time the respect of thoseprinces to whom he had resigned the possession of the worklj'".It is seldom that minds, long exercised in business, have formedany habits of conversing with themselves, and in the loss of powerthey principally regret the want of occupation. The amusements*of letters and, of devotion, which afford so many resources Lnsolitude, were incapable of fixing the attention of Diocletian;but he had preserved* or at least he soon recovered a taste for themost innocent as. well as natural pleasures, and his leisure hourswe*e sufficiently employed in building, planting, and gardening.His phaoso. His. answer to- Maximian is deservedly celebrated. He was solicitedby that restless old man to reassume the reins of government andthe imperial purple. He rejected- the temptation with' a smile ofpity, calmly observing, that if he could shew Maximian the cab*bages which he had planted with, his own hands at Salona, heshould no longer be urged to relinquish, the enjoyment of happinessfor the pursuit of power "\. In his conversations with his friends,he frequently acknowledged, that of all arts, the most difficult wasthe ar t of reigning; and he expressed himself on that favourite topicwith a degree of warmth which could be the result only of ex­perience. ,c How often, was he accustomed to fay, is it the interestM of four or five ministers to combine together to deceive their"sovereign. Secluded from mankind by his exalted dignity, the"truth is concealed from his knowledge; he can fee only with"their eyes, he hears nothing but their misrepresentations. He"confers the most important offices upon vice and weakness, and "disgraces i