OCR Output ROMA. 7S!> ROMA. frjuiu ad aciinst the wall of the Tabnlarium, t nth i bindsceie though now ruined portico before 1'icii, fram which there was an entrance into eachrfanti dumber. From tho fragments of the <mum in inscription conld still he deciphered. :«!.* dedicated to the twelve Dei Consented. )Idem, Fan Htm. p. 207, Bullet, d. Inst. 1835.)Hbiiiacoferr tallies remarkably with the following iiis-t^ in Vsrro: "Et quoniam (ut aiunt) Dei iv..(to adjuvant, prius invocabo eos; nec nt ]■ r mi et Lnnitu, Musas, sed xn. deos consentis; tk<.v taiwn eta urbtnos, quorum imagine* ad Jorum 1itata\ gex marts et feininae totidem, sed i*h ill deos, qui maxime agricolarum daces sunt" i»lt Hi 1) We may, however, infer that the in- IwvoJui wai pvterior to the time of Varro, pro-ail; Jta some restoration of the building; since ininl*Lmgm Latino (viii. § 71) he asks: "Item tjuamun, li tit analogia. cur appellant omnes acdes j/tssi Gauentam et non Deorum Consentium?" itvrau in the inscription in question we find it 1wren "Consentiom." We may farther remark iuat the Jonner of these jiassages would sanctionjs mdudiag of the whole Clivus Capitolinus under ■It tfpulauon of " forum."Ban nupert to the Jani on the forum, it seemsrrobleTuatical whether there were three ofaau. There appear to have been two Jani before*• Jbuhca Paulli, to which the money-lendersbtW newted. (Schol. ad Uor. Ep. i. 1. 54.) ButranBoiot (Sot u 3.18) says — "— postqoam omnia res mea JanumAi medium fracta est,"'r'tiMy means, as we said before, the middle'tie stmt, and not a Janus which lay between>««bn, as Becker thinks must necessarily follow• -. tb use of the word mediae. (Uandb. p. 327,«»■) Ferwm under the Empire. — The import-B alterations made by Julius Caesar in the dis­mal of the forum were the foundation of its■»i»wt appearance under the Empire. These■fw wire not mere caprices, but adaptationsn* t> the altered state of political society andCanara own political views. But the dagger'-• aansKB terminated his life before they could'arrH oat, and most of them were left to beby his successor Augustus. One of theTpwtaot of these designs of Caesar's was the*uo? af a new curia or senate-house, which was■at ha Dame. Such a building would be the1* 4 the senate's servitude and the symbol of despotic power. The former senate-houseI »■ erected by one of the kings; the new one■* b the gift of the first of the emperors. We"Mtiuned the destruction of the old curia by1 * t!a time of Sulla, and the rebuilding of it byn Fsutu; which structure Caesar caused to?»W down under a pretence, never executed, ofBar. an its site a temple of Fellcitas.IW, curia founded by Pompey near his theatre inQini-u Manius—the building in which Caesari ifeucnated — seems to have been that com-"?aa«e; and Ovid (Met. xv. 801), in describingI mat, calls it simply Curia:— 'neque enim locus nllus in urbe U licicbi luramque placet, nisi Curia, caedem." tit tstpoat that when Caesar attained tono Barer be was not well pleased to see the meetings of the senate held in a building dedicatedby his great rival. A new curia was voted a little before Caesar'sdeath, but he did not live to found it; and theMonumentum Ancyranum shows that it was bothbegun and completed by Octavianus. Respecting the site of the CtiKIA Julia the mostdiscordant opinions have prevailed. Yet if we ac­cept the information of two writers who could nothave been mistaken on such a subject, its position isnot difficult to find. We learn from Pliny that itwas erected on the comitium: "Idem (Augustus)in Curia quoque quam in Comitio consecrabat,dnas tabulas imprcssit parieti" (xxxv. 10); andthis site is confirmed by Dion Cassius: to £ou-Kturiipiov to 'louAior, Aw' airou K\i)Biv rapa ts/KoiUTi'af u'n<uurTu(Vti. i>KoS6fjLOvyt urr-rp t^tpiaro(xlvii. 19). It is impossible to find any other spot forit on the comitium than that where the old curiastood. Besides the author last quoted expressly in­forms us that in consequence of some prodigies thatoccurred in the year before Caesar's murder it hadbeen resolved to rebuild the Curia Hostilia («al Siatouto to" Tf QovKfUT-tipiov to 'OorlAiop arooco-ooiinoVai tyvQtathi, lb. xlv. 17.) At the timewhen this decree was made Caesar was himself pon-tifex maximus; it would have been a flagrant breachof religion to neglect a solemn vow of this description;and we cannot therefore accept Beckers assertionthat this vow was never accomplished. (Ilandb.p. 331, note 608.) We cannot doubt that thecuria erected by Augustus was in pursuance ofthis decree, for Caesar did not lire even to begin it(" Curiam et continens ei Chalcidicum — feci," Mon.•kneyr); but though the senate-house was rebuilt, itwas no longer named Hostilia, but, after its newfounder, Julia. Now what has Becker got to opposeto alt this weight of testimony? Solely a passage inGellius,— which, however, he misapprehends,— inwhich it is said, on the authority of Varro, that thenew curia had to be inaugurated, which would nothave been the case had it stood on the ancient s]«t('* Turn adscripsit (Varro) de locis in quibus senatusconsultum fieri jure posset, docuitque confirmavitque,nisi in loco per augures constituto, quod tcniplumappellaretur, senatusconsultum factum esset, justumid non fuisse. Propterea et in Curia Hostilia et inPompeia. et pott in Julia, cum profana ea looa fuis-sent, templa esse per augures constituta," xiv. 7. § 7.)But Becker has here taken only a half view of theseaugural rites. As a temple could not be built withoutbeing first inaugurated, so neither could it be pulleddown without being first exaugurated. This is evidentfrom the accounts of theexauguration of the fanes inorder to make room for the temple of tlic CapitolineJupiter. (" Et, ut libera a cacteris religiouibus areaesset tota Jovis templique ejus, quod inaedificaretur,exaugurare funa sacellaque statuit, quae aliquot ibia Tatio rege, consecreta inaugurataque postca fue-rant," Liv. i. 55, cf. v. 54; Dion. Hslic. iii. 69.)When Caesar, therefore, pulled down the curia ofFaustus he first had it exaugurated, by which thesite again became a local profamu, and would ofcourse require a fresh inauguration when a newtemple was erected upon it. The enria in use inthe time of Propertius (v. 1. 11) must have l*eatho Curia Julia; and the following lines seem to showthat it had risen on the site of the ancient one:—"Curia praetexto quae nunc ni'.et alta Senalu.I'cllilos habuit, rusticu corda, Pat res." 3 k a