OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 143 figure, every angle had the same disposition of its sculptures, thatwhen you turned them about, the very same form of themwas turned about without any variation. Now that part ofthe crown-work that was inclosed under the table had itssculptures very beautiful, but that part which went round onthe outside was naore elaborately adorned with most beautifulornaments, because it was exposed to sight, and to the view ofthe spectators; for which reason it was that both those sideswhich were extant above the rest, were acute; and none of theangles, which we before told you were three, appeared less thananother, when the table was turned about. Now into the cord-work thus turned were precious stones inserted in rows parallelone to the other, inclosed in golden buttons, which had ouchesin them; but the parts which were on the side of the crown, andwere exposed to the sight, were adorned with a row of ovalfigures obliquely placed, of the most excellent sort of preciousstones, which imitated rods laid close; and encompassed the tableround about. But under these oval figures, thus engraven, theworkmen had put a crown all round it, where the nature of allsorts of fruit was represented, insomuch that the bunches ofgrapes hung up. And when they had made the stones to re­present all the kinds of fruit before mentioned, and that each inits proper colour, they made them fast with gold round the wholetable. The like disposition of the oval figures, and of theengravedrods, was framed under the crown, that the table might on eachside show the same appearance of variety, and elegancy of itsornaments, so that neither the position of the wave-work nor ofthe crown, might be different, although the table were turned onthe other side, but that the prospect of the most artificial contri­vances might be extended as far as the feet; for there was madea plate of gold of four fingers broad, through the entire breadthof the table, into which they inserted the feet, and then fastenedthem to the table by buttons, and button-holes, at the placewhere the crown was situate, that so on what side soever of thetable one should stand, it might exhibit the very same view ofthe exquisite workmanship, and of the vast expenses bestowedupon it: but upon the table itself they engraved a meander, in­serting into it very valuable stones in the middle, like stars of va­rious colours: the carbuncle and the emerald, each of which sentout agreeable rays of light to the spectators; with such stones ofother sorts also as were most curious, and best esteemed, asbeing most precious in their kind. Hard by this meander atexture of net-work ran round it, the middle of which appearedlike a rhombus, into which were inserted rock chrystal, and am­ber, which, by the great resemblance of the appearance theymade, gave wonderful delight to those that saw them. The