OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 203 laws of Charondas accepted the aid of poetry and chap.music; and Zaleucus framed the republic of the xxxvn-Locrians, which stood without alteration above twohundred years. From a similar motive of nationalpride, both Livy and Dionysius are willing to believe,that the deputies of Rome visited Athens under thewise and splendid administration of Pericles; and thelaws of Solon were transfused into the twelve tables.If such an embassy had indeed been received fromthe Barbarians of Hesperia, the Roman name wouldhave been familiar to the Greeks before the reign ofAlexander*; and the faintest evidence would havebeen explored and celebrated by the curiosity of suc­ceeding times. But the Athenian monuments aresilent; nor will it seem credible that the patriciansshould undertake a long and perilous navigation tocopy the purest model of a democracy. In the com­parison of the tables of Solon with those of the De­cemvirs, some casual resemblance may be found:some rules, which nature and reason have revealed toevery society; some proofs of a common descentfrom Egypt or Phoenicia. But in all the great linesof public and private jurisprudence, the legislators ofRome and Athens appear to be strangers or adverseto each other. * I seize the opportunity of tracing the progress of this national intercourse:1. Herodotus and Thucydides (A. U. C. 330—350) appear ignorant of the nameand existence of Rome (Joseph, contra Apion. tom. ii. 1 . i. c. 12. p. 444. edit.Havercamp). 2. Theopompus (A. U. C. 400. Plin. iii. 9) mentions the invasionof the Gauls, which is noticed in looser terms by Heraclides Ponticus (Plutarchin Camillo, p. 292. edit . H. Stephan.). 3. The real or fabulous embassy of theRomans to Alexander (A. U. C. 430) is attested by Clitarchus (Plin. iii. 9), byAristus and Asclepiades (Arrian, 1. vii. p. 294, 295), and by Memnon of He­rat-lea (apud Photium, cod. ccxxiv. p. 725); though tacitly denied by Livy.4. Theophrastus (A. U. G. 440) primus externorum aliqua de Romania dili-gcntius scripsit (Plin. iii. 9). 5. Lycophron (A. IT. C. 480—500) scattered thefirst seed of a Trojan colony and the fable of the /Kncid (Cassandra, 1226—1280): Aa&urff*A bold prediction before the end of the first Punic war! r