OCR Output nB THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.Vl-, ** commission of any other impiety of the fame nature,** he should boldly inform the public of it, whether he*: were a citizen, or a foreigner, or a stave." This accident in truth made a deep impression on theirminds. For it was construed as a bad omen in regardto the expedition in hand, and as an evidence of fometerrible combination to introduce innovations and anoverthrow of the democracy. An information was at length given in by some fo-journers and their footmen, relating indeed not at all tothe Mercuries, but to the defacements of other imagescommitted sormerly by some young men in a frolicsomeand drunken mood ; and how, farther, ** they had cele-"braced * the Mysteries in private houses by way of'* mockery," and amongst others they also accusedAlcibiades. The party most inveterate against himcaught readily at this charge. As he was the main ob­stacle to the advancement of their own popularity andcredit, they concluded, that, in case they could rid them­selves of him, they might at once become leaders of theState. Hence they aggravated the charge, and bellowedaloud, that "those mystic frolics, and the defacements of*' the Mercuries, struck at the very foundations of the*( democracy ; and, that none of these outrageous acts** had been committed without his participation." Theyalledged, as a circumstance that corroborated the charge,the whole tenor of his behaviour, flagrantly licentious,and quite inconsistent with a democratical constitution. Alcibiades endeavoured forthwith to clear himself thebest he could from all appearances of guilt, and declaredhimself ready, before he entered upon the voyage, tosubmit to a trial, (for the armament was now almost com­pleted,) and, if proved to be guilty, to suffer the pe- • The sacred Mysteries celebrated by the Athenians at Eleusis. Plutarch relates,that the informers were brought in by one Androcles, a demagogue, a virulent foe ofAlcibiadea. They deposed, that one Theodorus acted the part of the Crier, Polycionof the lurch-bearer, Alcibiades that of the Hieropbant, aji<j m,aoy of his intimateszUiltcd and were initiated in solemn and fornial mockery, nalties