OCR Output AN. 261 1059.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he was unarmed, kill him with his ownspear, which he threw at him; for he caughthim by force, and took away his weapons,while he was alive and fighting, and slewhim with his own weapons. One may also add this to the aforemen­tioned actions of the same man, either as theprincipal of them in alacrity, or as resem­bling the rest. When God sent a snow, alion slipped, and fell into a certain pit; andbecause the pit's mouth was narrow, it wasevident he would perish, being inclosed withthe snow. So when he saw no way to getout and save himself, he roared. When Be-naiah heard the wild beast, he went towardshim, and coming at the noise he made, hewent down into the mouth of the pit, andsmote him,* as he struggled, with a stake thatlay there, and immediately slew him. Theother thirty-three were also like these invalour. ,, ,, f^-'s CHAP. XIII OF THE ENUMERATION OF THE PEOPLE BY DAVID S COM­MAND; AND THE SUBSEQUENT EFFECTS OF THE DIVINEDISPLEASURE. NOWf king David was desirous to knowhow many ten thousands there wereof the people; but J forgot the command ofMoses, who told them beforehand, that if themultitude were numbered they should payhalf a shekel to God for every head. Accord­ingly the king commanded Joab, the captainof his host, to go and number the whole mul- titude. But when he said there was no ne­cessity for such a numeration, he was notpersuaded to countermand it, but enjoinedhim to make no delay, but to go about thenumbering of the Hebrews immediately. SoJoab took with him the heads of the tribes,and the scribes; and went over the countryof the Israelites; and took notice how nu­merous the multitude were, and returned toJerusalem to the king, after nine months andtwenty days. And he gave in to the king thenumber of the people, without the tribe ofBenjamin; for he had not yet numbered thattribe, nor the tribe of Levi; for the king re­pented of his having sinned against God.Now the number of the rest of the Israeliteswas nine hundred thousand men, who wereable to bear arms and go to war.|| But thetribe of Judah, by itself, was four hundredthousand.§ Now when the prophets had signified toDavid that God was angry at him, he beganto intreat he would be merciful to him, andforgive his sin. But God sent Nathan theprophet to propose to him the choice of threethings. "Whether he would have faminecome upon the country for seven years? orwould have a war, and be subdued threemonths by his enemies? or whether Godshould send a pestilence and a distemperupon the Hebrews, for three days? But ashe was fallen to a fatal choice of great mise­ries, he was in trouble and sorely confounded.And when the prophet had said, that he mustof necessity make this choice, and had * 2 Sam. xxiii. 20. t About an. 1058. J The words of God by Moses, Exod. xxx. 12, suffi­ciently justify the reason here given by Josephus for thegreat plague mentioned in this chapter. "When thoutakest the sum of the children of Israel, after their number,then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul untothe Lord, when thou numberest them; that there be noplague amongst them when thou numberest them." Norindeed could David's, or the Sanhedrim's neglect of exe­cuting this law at this enumeration excuse the people;who ought still to have brought their bounden oblation ofhalf a shekel a piece with them, when they came to benumbered. And I am inclinable to suppose that the greatreason why nations art so constantly punished by and withwicked kings and governors, is this: that they almost con­stantly comply with them in their neglect of, or disobe­dience to, the divine laws; and suffer those divine laws togo into disuse, or contempt, in order to please those wickedikings and governors, and that they submit to severalwicked political laws and commands of those kings and governors, instead of the righteous laws of God, which allmankind ought ever to obey, let their kings and governorssay what they please to the contrary, this preference ofhuman, before divine laws, seeming to me the principalcharacter of idolatrous or antichristian nations. Accord­ingly Josephus well observes IV. 8. that it was the dutyof the people of Israel to take care that their kings, whenthey should have them, did not exceed their proper limitsof power, and prove ungovernable by the laws of God;which would certainly be a most pernicious thing to theirdivine settlement. Nor do I think that negligence pe­culiar to the Jews: those nations which are called Chris­tian are sometimes indeed very solicitous to restrain theirkings and governors from breaking the human laws of theirseveral kingdoms; but without the like care for re­straining them from breaking the laws of God. "Whe­ther it be right in the sight of God, to hearken unto menmore than to God, judge ye." Acts iv. 19. "We oughtto obey God rather than men." v. 29. II Eight hundred thousand, 2 Sam. xxiv. 9. § Five hundred thousand. 3C2