OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP, XL^ to the attack of villages and defenceless towns; their fly-ring parties have sometimes touched the Hellespont, theEuxine, and the gates of Tarsus, Antioch, or Damascus ;f-and the spoil was lodged in their inaccessible mountains,before the Roman troops had received their orders, orthe distant province had computed its loss. The guiltof rebellion and robbery excluded them from the rightsof national enemies; and the magistrates were instructedby an edict, that the trial or punishment of an Isaurian,even on the festival of Easter, was a meritorious act ofjustice and piety.B If the captives were condemned todomestic slavery, they maintained, with their sword ordagger, the private quarrel of their masters; and it was.found expedient for the public tranquillity, to prohibitthe service of such dangerous retainers. When theircountryman Tarcalissaeus or Zeno ascended the throne,he invited a faithful and formidable band of Isaurians,who insulted the court and city, and were rewarded byan annual tribute of five thousand pounds of gold. Butthe hopes of fortune depopulated the mountains, luxury,enervated the hardiness of their minds and bodies,.and in,proportion as they mixed with mankind, they becameless qualified for the enjoyment of poor and solitary free­dom. After the death of Zeno, his successor Anastasiussuppressed their pensions, exposed their persons to therevenge of the people, banished them from Constant! -nople, and prepared to sustain a war, which left only thealternative of victory or servitude. A brother of thelast emperor usurped the title of Augustus; his causewas powerfully supported by the arms, the treasures, andthe magazines, collected by Zeno; and the native Isau­rians must have formed the smallest portion of the hun­dred and fifty thousand barbarians under his standard, f See the full and wide extent of their inroads in PhilostorgiuJ, (Hist. Eccles. lib.,ll.c. 8.) with Godefro^'s learned Dissertations. E Cod. Justinian, lib. 9. tit. 12. leg. 10. The punishments are severe—a line of ahundred pounds of gold, degradation, and even death. The public peace might af­ford a pretence, but Zeno was desirous of monopolizing the valour and service of theIsaurians.