OCR Output 374 LIVY. jEtolia and Acarnania; and on their sides, Locrisand Boeotia. Phanotea in Phocis he took withoutdifficulty at the first assault. The siege of Anticyragave him not much delay. Then Ambrysis and Hyam-polis were taken. Daulis, being situated on a loftyeminence, could not be reduced either by scalade orworks: he therefore provoked the garrison by missileweapons to make sallies from out the town. Then byflying at one time, pursuing at another, and engagingin slight skirmishes, he led them into such a degreeof carelessness, and such a contempt of him, that atlength the Romans, mixing with them as they ranback, entered by the gates, and stormed the town. Sixother fortresses in Phocis, of little consequence, cameinto his hands, through fear rather than by force ofarms. Elatia shut its gates, and the inhabitants seemeddetermined not to admit within their walls either thearmy or the general of the Romans, unless compelledby force. 19. While the consul was employed in the siege ofElatia, a prospect opened to him of effecting a businessof much more importance; of being able to prevail onthe Achaeans to renounce their alliance with Philip,and attach themselves to the Romans. Gycliades, thehead of the faction that favored the interest of Philip,they had now banished; and Aristainus, who wishedfor a union between his countrymen and the Romans,was pretor. The Roman fleet, with Attalus and theRhodians, lay at Cenchrea, and were preparing to laysiege to Corinth with their whole combined force. Theconsul therefore judged it prudent that, before theyentered on that affair, ambassadors should be sent tothe Aohasan state, with assurances that if they cameover from the king to the side of the Romans, the latterwould consign Corinth to them, and annex it to theold confederacy of their nation. Accordingly, by theconsul's direction, ambassadors were sent to the Achas-ans, by his brother Lucius Quintius, by Attalus, andby the Rhodians and Athenians—a general assemblybeing summoned to meet at Sicyon to give them audi­