OCR Output 206 TITUS LIVIUS' Book III. greater. Luckily, indeed, the consul Quinctius had justreturned from the Algidus, which served to allay theirfears. Having brought them to reason, he rebukedthem for being afraid of conquered enemies, and postedguards at the gates. Then having convened the senate,and proclaimed a general vacation in the courts of justice,by the authority of the fathers, he consigued the govern­ment of the city to Q. Serviiius, and marched out toprotect the country, but then no enemy was to be found.The other consul had been very alert Having gotintelligence of the enemy's rout, he fill upon them load­ed with booty, and by that means, encumbered in theirmarch, so that this plundering match cost them verydear: tew of the enemy escaped the trap he had laid forthem, and all the booty was recovered. Upon Quinctius'sreturn to the city, the courts of justice which had beenshut for lour days, were opened again. Then a censuswas held, and when Quinctius had finished the lustrums,the number of citizens enrolled is said to have amount­ed to one hundred and twenty-four thousand two hun­dred and fifteen, besides orphans of both sexes. Afterthis, the iEqui made no great figure. They kept them­selves within their walls, whilst their effects were burntor plundered with impunity. The consul Fabius, whenhe had repeatedly spread desolation in the enemy'scountry, with fire and sword, returned to Rome, full ofglory, and loaded with spoils. Ai CHAP. IV. Fabius over-reached by the JEqui. L.FTER this, A. Posthumius Albus and Sp. FuriusFusus, were elected consuls. The Furii, are by someauthors, called Fusii. I mention this, that none may beled into a mistake, as to the persons, by this change of, names. It was fully expected, that one of the consulswould prosecute the war against the .Squi; for whichreason, the iEqui solicited aid from the Volsci, who ,o-habited Ecetra. Their request was cheerfully granted,so inveterate wa- the hatred of these states against theRomans; wherefore, they made the most vigorous pre­parations for war.