OCR Output 240 "THE DECLINE AND FALL important province on the Upper Danube. After a long and doubt­ful.conflict, the spirit of the barbarians was subdued. TheQuadiand the MarcomanniS', who had taken the lead in the war, werethe most severely punished in its catastrophe. They were com­manded to retire five miles s* from their own banks of the Danube,and to deliver up the flower of the youth, who were immediatelysent into Britain, a remote island, where they might be secure ashostages, and useful as soldiers Ss. On the frequent rebellions ofthe Quadi and Marcomanni, the irritated emperor resolved to reducetheir country into the form of a province. His designs were dis­appointed by death. This formidable league, however, the onlyone that appears in the two first centuries of the imperial history,was entirely dissipated, without leaving any traces behind iaGermany. Distinction of In the course of this introductory chapter, we have confined our-tribes. selves to the general outlines of the manners of Germany, without attempting to describe or to distinguish the various tribes whichsilled that great country in the time of Cæsar, of Tacitus, or ofPtolemy. As she ancient, or as new tribes successively present them­selves in the series of this history, we shall concisely mention theirorigin, their "situation, and their particular character. Modern na­tions are fixed and permanent societies, connected among themselvesby laws and government, bound to their native foil by arts andagriculture. The German tribes were voluntary and fluctuatingassociations of soldiers, almost of savages. The fame territory oftenchanged its inhabitants in the tide of conquest and emigration. Thefame communities, uniting in a plan of defence or invasion, be­stowed a new title on their new confederacy. The dissolution of anancient confederacy, restored to the independent tribes their pecu­liar but long forgotten appellations. A victorious state often com­municated its own name to a vanquistied people. Sometimes crowdsof voluntiers flocked from all parts to the standard of a favourite leader;