OCR Output OV THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343 opposite side; and the indiscreet clamour of the blues chap*admonished and stimulated the cruelty of the tyrant. The ministers of death were despatched to Chalcedon: Death ofthey dragged the emperor from 'his sanctuary: and and histhe five sons of Maurice were successively murdered ajdTwbbefore the eyes of their agonizing parent. At each Nov- 27-stroke which he felt in his heart, he found strengthto rehearse a pious ejaculation: "Thou art just, O"Lord! and thy judgments are righteous." Andsuch, in the last moments, was his rigid attachmentto truth and justice, that he revealed to the soldiersthe pious falsehood of a nurse who presented her ownchild in the place of a royal infant. The tragic scenewas finally closed by the execution of the emperorhimself, in the twentieth year of his reign, and thesixty-third of his age. The bodies of the father andhis five sons were cast into the sea, their heads wereexposed at Constantinople to the insults or pity ofthe multitude, and it was not till some signs of pu­trefaction had appeared that Phocas connived at theprivate burial of these venerable remains. In thatgrave, the faults and errors of Maurice were kindlyinterred. His fate alone was remembered; and atthe end of twenty years, in the recital of the historyof Theophylact, the mournful tale was interrupted bythe tears of the audience *. Such tears must have flowed in secret, and such Phocascompassion would have been criminal, under the A^iTcire,reign of Phocas, who was peaceably acknowledged Nov-23-in the provinces of the East and West. The imagesof the emperor and his wife Leontia were exposedin the Lateran to the veneration of the clergy andsenate of Home, and afterwards deposited in thepalace of the Caesars, between those of Constantine • The revolt of Phocas and death of Maurice are told by Theophylact Simo-catta (1. viii. c . 7—12), the Paschal Chronicle fp. 379, 380), Theophanes(Chronograph, p. 230-244), Zonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xiv. p. 77—80), and Ccdrenus(p. 390—404). Z \> r