OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 337 was Antipho, a man who in personal merit was secondto no Athenian then alive, and the greatest genius of histime to devise with sagacity, and ingeniousty to expresswhat he had once devised. At the assemblies of thepeople, or any public debate, he never assisted, if he couldpossibly decline it, since the »»«////«^wasjealous of the greatreputation he had gained: Yet, in the courts of judicatureor appeals to the people, he was the only person who wasable effectually to serve those clients who could get himfor their patron. And this same Antipho, when in pro­cess of time the government of the four hundred was quitedemolished, and severely prosecuted by ihepeople, is judgedto have defended their conduct, and plt-aded in a causewhere his own life was at stake, the best of any personthat down to this time was ever heard to speak. Phrynichus also was another who singularly distin­guished himself in his zeal for the oligarchy. He dreadedAlcibiades, as conscious that he was privy to the wholeof the correspondence he had carried on with Astyo-chus. He proceeded thus, on the supposition that Al­cibiades would never be restored by an oligarchical go­vernment. And then he was a man in whose capacityand zeal, if once engaged, the greatest considence mightreasonably be placed. ,Theramencs, farther, the son of Agnon, a man whoboth in speaking and acting made no ordinary figure,had a principal share in the dissolution of the populargovernment: No wonder, therefore, as the businesswas managed by so many and so able agents, that,spite of every obstacle, it was brought to effect. Grie­vous, indeed, it was to the Athenian people to submicto the loss of their liberty a century after the expulsionof their tyrants, during which period they had not onlybeen independent, but accustomed, for above half thatspace, to give law to others. To return. When, in the assembly of the people,not a soul was heard to oppose the motion, it passed intoa law, and the assembly was adjourned. They aster-Vol. II. Z wards