OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. first and greatest of the Othos. A portion of Gaul, to the west of the Rhine, alongthe banks of the Meuse and the Moselle, was assigned to the Germans, by whoseblood and language it has been tinged since the time of Csesar and Tacitus. Be­tween the Rhine, the Rhone, and the Alps, the successors of Otho acquired a vainsupremacy over the broken kingdoms of Burgundy and Aries. In the north,Christianity was propagated by the sword of Otho, the conqueror and apostle ofthe Slavic nations of the Elbe and Oder; the marches of Brandenburg and Sleswickwere fortified with German colonies; and the king of Denmark, the dukes of Po­land and Bohemia, confessed themselves his tributary vassals. At the head of a vic­torious army, he passed the Alps, subdued the kingdom of Italy, delivered the pope,and for ever fixed the imperial crown in the name and nation of Germany. Fromthat memorable era, two maxims of public jurisprudence were introduced by forceand ratified by time. I. That the prince who was elected in the German diet, ac­quired from that instant the subject kingdoms of Italy and Rome. II. But thathe might not legally assume the titles of emperor and Augustus, till he had re­ceived the crown from the hands of the Roman pontiff. (1) The imperial dignity of Charlemagne was announced to the east by the altera­tion of his style; and instead of saluting his fathers, the Greek emperors, he pre­sumed to adopt the more equal and familiar appellation of brother. (2) Perhapsin his connexion with Irene he aspired to the name of husband; his embassy toConstantinople spoke the language of peace and friendship, and might conceal atreaty of marriage with that ambitious princess, who had renounced the most sa­cred duties of a mother. The nature, the duration, the probable consequences,of such a union between two distant and dissonant empires, it is impossible to con­jecture: but the unanimous silence of the Latins may teach us to suspect, that thereport was invented by the enemies of Irene, to chargat her with the guilt of be­traying the church and state to the strangers of the west. (3) The French am­bassadors were the spectators, and had nearly been the victims, of the conspiracyof Nicephorus, and the national hatred. Constantinople was exasperated by thetreason and sacrilege of ancient Rome: a proverb, " That the Franks were goodfriends and bad neighbours," was in every one's mouth; but it was dangerous toprovoke a neighbour who might be tempted to reiterate, in the church of St. So­phia, the ceremony of his imperial coronation. After a tedious journey of circuitand delay, the ambassadors of Nicephorus found him in his camp, on the banks,of the river Sala; and Charlemagne affected to confound their vanity by displaying,in a Franconian village, the pomp, or at least the pride, of the Byzantine palace. (4)The Greeks were successively led through four halls of audience: in the first, theywere ready to fall prostrate before a splendid personage in a chair of state, till heinformed them that he was only a servant, the constable or master of the horse ofthe emperor. The same mistake and the same answer, were repeated in theapartments of the count palatine, the steward and the chamberlain; and their im­patience was gradually heightened, till the doors of the presence-chamber werethrown open, and they beheld the genuine monarch, on his throne, enriched withthe foreign luxury which he despised, and encircled with the love and reverenceof his victorious chiefs. A treaty of alliance was concluded between the two em­pires, and the limits of the east and west were defined by the right of present pos­session. But the Greeks(5) soon forgot this humiliating equality, or rememberedit only to hate the barbarians by whom it was extorted. During the short unionof virtue and power, they respectfully saluted the august Charlemagne with theacclamations of basileus, and emperor of the Romans. As soon, as these qualitieswere separated in the person of his pious son, the Byzantine letters were inscribed, (0 The power of custom forces roe to number Conrad I. and Henry I.,lhe Fowler, in the list of emperors,a title which was never assumed by those kings of Germany. The Italians, Muratori, for instance, are morescrupulous and correct, and only reckon the princes who have been crowned at Rome. (9) invidiam tamen suseepti norainis, (C. P.) imperatoribus super hoc indignantibus magna tulit patientia,vicitque eorum contumaciam . . . mittendo ad cos crebas legationes, et in epistolis fratres eos appellando.(Eginhard, c uviii. p. 128.) Perhaps it was on their account that, like Augustus, he affected some reluctanceto receive the empire. (3) Theophanes speaks nf the coronation and unction of Charles, K«pou>.w;, (Chronograph, p. 39°.) and ofhis treaty of marriage with Irene, (p. 403.) which is unknown to the Latins. Gaillard relates his transactionswith the Greek empire, (torn. ii. p. 446—468.) (4) Gaillard very properly observes, that this pageant was a farce suitable to children only; but that it wasindeed represented in the presence, and for ihe benefit of children of a larger growth. (5) Compare, in the original texts collected by Pagi, (torn. iii. A. D. 813. no. 7. A. D. 824. no. 10, Sec,) thecontrast of Charlemagne and hit son: to the former the ambassadors of Michael, (who were indeed disavowed)snore suo, id est lingua Grseca, lautles dixerunt, imperatorem eum et Bv^es appellantes; to the latter, vacateimperatori Franetnm, &e.