OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 473 did not fail to supply partly on account of the need for them,partly on account of vanity and money. Such a manualof rhetoric has been preserved to us, composed under Sulla'sdictatorship by an unknown author, who according to thefashion then prevailing (P. 443) taught simultaneouslyliterature and Latin rhetoric, and wrote on both; a treatiseremarkable not merely for its close, clear, and firm handlingof the subject, but above all for its comparative indepen­dence as respects Greek models. Although in method en­tirely dependent on the Greeks, the Roman yet distinctlyand even abruptly rejects all "the useless matter whichthe Greeks had gathered together, solely in order that thescience might appear more difficult to learn." The bitterestcensure is bestowed on the hair-splitting dialectics—that"loquacious science of inability to speak "—whose finishedmaster, for sheer fear of expressing himself ambiguously, atlast no longer ventures to pronounce his own name. TheGreek school-terminology is throughout and intentionallyavoided. Very earnestly the author points out the danger ofmany teachers, and inculcates the golden rule that the scholarought above all to be trained by the teacher to help himself;with equal earnestness he recognizes the truth that the schoolis a secondary, and life the main, matter, and gives in hisexamples chosen with thorough independence an echo ofthose forensic speeches which during the last decades hadexcited notice in the Roman advocate-world. It deservesattention, that the opposition to the extravagances of Hel­lenism, which had formerly sought to prevent the rise of anative Latin rhetoric (P. 443), continued to influence itafter it arose, and thereby secured to Roman eloquence, ascompared with the contemporary eloquence of the Greeks,theoretically and practically a higher dignity and a greaterusefulness. Philosophy, in fine, was not yet represented in literature, Philosophy,since neither did an inward need develop a national Eomanphilosophy nor did outward circumstances call forth a Latinphilosophical authorship. It cannot even be shown withcertainty that there were Latin translations of popular sum­maries of philosophy belonging to this period; those whopursued philosophy read and disputed in Greek. In the professional sciences there was but little activity. ProfessionalWell as the Romans understood how to farm and to calcu- sciences.late, physical and mathematical research gained no hold