OCR Output 432 NILL'S. NILUS. desert now disappear. The rocky banks sink down;the inundation fertilises the borders to a considerabledistance ; and for patches of arable soil fine pasturesabound, whence both Arabia and Aegypt importeda breed of excellent horses. (Russegger, Karte vonAhZhVti.) But after quitting Napata (?) no re­mains of antiquity are found before wo arrive at theGagaudes Insula of Pliny (vi. 29. s. 35), lat. 19° 35',the modern Aryo, a little above the third Cataract.The quarries of this island, which is about 12 milesin length, and causes a considerable eddy in theriver, were worked both by Acthiopians and Aegyp-tians. A little to N. of this island, and belowthe third Cataract, the Nile makes a considerablebend to the E., passing on its right bank the ruinsof Seghi, or Sesche. On its left bank arc found theremains of the temple of Soleb% equally remarkablefor the beauty of its architecture, and for its pic­turesque site upon the verge of the rich land, " theriver's gift," and an illimitable plain of sand stretch­ing to the horizon. (Cailiiaud, V hie de Meroe%vol. i. p. 375; Hoskins, Travels, p. 245.) TheNile is once again divided by an island called Sais,and a little lower down is contracted by a wall ofgranite on either side, so that it is liardly a stone's-throw across. At this point, and for a space ofseveral miles, navigation is practicable only at theseason of the highest floods. Below Sais are found the ruins of the smalltemple of Am.ira, and at Semneh those of twotemples which, from their opposite eminences on theright and left banks of the river, probably served asfortresses also at this narrow joss of the Nile. Thata city of great strength once existed here is themore probable, because at or near Seninch was thefrontier between Aethiopia and Aegypt. We havenow arrived at the termination of the porphyry andgranite rocks: henceforward, from about lat 21°N., the river-lianks are composed of sandstone, andacquire a less nigged aspect. The next remarkablefeature is the Cataract of Wadillalfa, the GreatCataract of the ancient geographers. (Strab. xvii.p. 78G.) In remote ante-historic periods a bar of pri­mitive rock, piercing the sandstone, probablyspanned the Nile at this point (lat. 22° N.) fromshore to shore. But the original barrier has beenbroken by some natural agency, and a series ofislands now divides the stream which rushes andchafes between them. It is indeed less a single fallor nhoot of water than a succession of rapids, andmay be ascended, as ticlznni did, during the inun­dation. {Travels in Nubia, p. 85.) The roar ofthe waters may be heard at the distance of half aleague, and the depth of the fall is greater thanthat of the first Cataract at Sycne. On the lefthank of the river a city once stood in the immediateneighbourhood 'of the rapids ; and three temples,exhibiting on their walls the names of Scsorta*en,Tbothines III., and Amcnophis II., have been par­tially surveyed here. Indeed, with the second Ca­taract, we may be *aid to enter the propylaea ofAegypt itself. For thenceforward to Syene — adistance of 220 miles - either bank of the Nilepresents a succession of temples, either excavatedin the sandstone or separate structures, of variouseras and styles of architecture. Of these the mostremarkable and the most thoroughly explored is thatof AbootimM or Ipsambul, the ancient lbsciah,on the left bank, and two days'journey below theCataract This temple was 6rst cleared of the iu- cumbent sand by Belzoni {Researches, roL i. p. 31*5\and afterwards more completely explored, and Gra­tified with the reign of Rameses HI., by Chasi-pollion and Rosellini. Primis (/fcrtm) is one d*i*»journey down the stream; and below it the sand*he*hills compress the river for about 2 miles w-.ihoa mural escarpment, so that the current *erir« toforce itself rather than to flow through this hamer. (3.) The Nile below Syene.—At Syene {.it-touan), 24° 5' 23'' N. lat., the Nile eaten AcfTplProjier; and from this point, with ocxa&ioLal cur­vatures to the K. or NW., preserves gener-iliy adue northerly direction as far as its bifurcateat the apex of the Delta. Its bed pres^uts It:a slight declivity, the fall being only from 500 to§00 feet from Syene to the Mediterranean. Ta«width of the valley, however, through which it flowsvaries considerably, and the geological character ofits banks undergoes several changes. At a #t<ndistance below Syene begins a range of aand>Maerocks, which pass into limestone below Lat"p)I.t,lat 25° 30' N.; and this formation continues w»tb-otit any resumption of the sandstone, until both theLibyan and the Arabian hills diverge finally at Cer-casorum. The river thus flows beneath the prbvcipal quarries out of which the great structures ofthe Nile valley were built, and was the high road bywhich the blocks were conveyed to Thebes and Apii-linopolis, to Sais and Bubast is, to the Great laby­rinth in the Arsinoite nome, to the Pyramids andMemphis, and, finally, to the Greek and Komsaarchitects of Alexandria and AntinoopoJia, Again,from Syene to Latopolis, the shores of the river ansterile and dreary, since the inundation is checkedby the rock-walls E. and W. of the stream, hatat Apollinopolis Magna, lat. 25°, and at Latvia,25° 30', the rocks leave a broader verge for the fer­tilising deposit, and the Nile flows through richlycultivated tracts. At Thebes, for the first time, lie-banks expand into a broad plain, which is a^sjaclosed in at the N. end by the hilts at (Jvmak.Here the river is divided by small blinds, and is amile and a quarter in breadth. It has hitherto fol­lowed a northerly direction; but at Coptos, where aroad connected the stream with the ports of the I>dSea [Bkkenice], it bends to the NW., and foct<w»this inclination for some distance. At Pampohs,however, it resumes its general N. bearing,, and re­tains it to the fork of the Delta. Near Piospolis Parva {How), on the left back.and opposite Chenobosciurn, on the right, be^ic* ttecanal, or, perhaps, an ancient brand) of the XuV,called the Canal of Joseph {BoJir-Jtisuf). Tlu*lateral stream flows in a direction nearly (tiraDel tothe main one, through the Arsinoite nome (/V-Fyoum). From this point the Nile itaetf preiratino remarkable feature until It reaches Spew-Arte-inidos, cr the grottos of BcntAassan, where theeastern hills, approaching close to the riTer, Umtits inundation, and consequently alto the rultit&^Wland. In lat. 29° N. the Libyan hill*, for m -}*■-*.recede, and curving at first NW., but i»xei r***:n -^a SE. direction, embrace the Arsinoite nome. LavlJV,a little below Memphis, and after paving the hiihiof Utbel-el'Mokattam, both the eastern andwvrtrrachains of rocks finally diverge, and the river ex-isinds upon the great alluvial [bun ei ih* lv;ta_ At Cercasorum, where the bifurcation of th» rrt»rbegins, or, perhaps, at a remoter peri»«i. atillMemphis, the Nile probably nwt the Mnhtrrror at least an estuary, which its annual dcpuuU u