OCR Output THE LlFfe OF FLAVJDS JOSEPHtfS.' 243 this in my mind, and went with tears in my eyes to Titus, andtold him of them ; so he immediately commanded them to betaken down, and to have the greatest care taken of them, in or­der to their recovery ; yet two of them died under the physi­cian's hands, while the third recovered. 16. But, when Titus had composed the troubles in Judea, andconjectured that the lands which Ihad in Judea Would bring mein no profit, because a garrison to guard the country was after­ward to pitch there, he gave me another country in the plain.And, when he was going away to Rome, he made choice of mt:to sail along with him, and paid me great respect: and, whenwe were come to Rome, I had great care taken of me by Ves­pasian ; for he gave me an apartment in his own house, whichhe lived in before he came to the empire. He also honoured mewith the privilege of a Roman citizen, and gave me an annualpension ; and continued to respect me to the end of his life,without any abatement of his kindness to me ; which verything made me envied, and brought me into danger; for a cer­tain Jew, whose name was Jonathan, who had raised a tumult inCyrene, and had persuaded two thousand men of that countryto join with him, was the occasion of their ruin. But, when hewas bound by the governor of that country, and sent to the em­peror, he told him, that I had sent him both weapons and mo­ney. However, he could not conceal his being a liar from Ves­pasian, who condemned him to die ; according to which sentencehe was put to death. Nay, after that, when those that enviedmy good fortune did frequently bring accusations against me, byGod's providence I escaped them all. I also'received from Ves­pasian no small quantity of land, as free gift in Judea; aboutwhich time I divorced mv wife also, as not pleased with her be­haviour, though not till she had been the mother of three chil­dren, two of which are dead, and one, whom I named Hyrca-nus, is alive. After this I married a wife who had lived atCrete, but a Jew by birth : a woman she was of eminent parents,and such as were the most illustrious in all the country, andwhose character was beyond that of most other women, as herfuture life did demonstrate. By her I had two sons, the elder'sname was Justus, and the next Simonides, who was also namedAgrippa. And these were the circumstances of my domesticaffairs. However, the kindness of the emperor to me continuedstill the same ; for, when Vespasian was dead, Titus, who suc­ceeded him in the government, kept up the same respect for mewhich I had from his father; and, when I had frequent accusa­tions laid against me, he would not believe them. And Domi-tian, who succeeded, still augmented his respects to me ; for he H h 2 punished