OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. exchanges were regulated; the Persian assumed theguard of the gates of Caucasus, and the demolition ofDara was suspended, on condition that it should neverbe made the residence of the general of the east. Thisinterval of repose had been solicited, and was diligentlyimproved, by the ambition of the emperor: his Africanconquests were the first-fruits of the Persian treaty; andthe avarice of Chosroes was soothed by a large portion ofthe spoils of Carthage, which his ambassadors requiredin a tone of pleasantry, and under the colour of friend­ship.™ But the trophies of Belisarius disturbed theslumbers of the great king; and he heard with astonish­ment, envy, and fear, that Sicily, Italy, and Rome itself,had been reduced, in three rapid campaigns, to the obe­dience of Justinian. Unpractised in the art of violatingtreaties, he secretly excited his bold and subtle vassalAlmondar. That prince of the Saracens, who resided atHira," had not been included in the general peace, andstill waged an obscure war against his rival Arethas, thechief of the tribe of Gassan,and confederate of the em­pire. The subject of their dispute was an extensivesheep-walk in the desert to the south of Palmyra. Animmemorial tribute for the license of pasture, appearedto attest the rights of Almondar, while the Gassanite ap­pealed to the Latin name of strata, a paved road, as anunquestionable evidence of the sovereignty and laboursof the Romans." The two monarchs supported the causeof their respective vassals; and the Persian Arab, with­out expecting the event of a slow and doubtful arbitra­tion, enriched his flying camp with the spoil and captivesof Syria. Instead of repelling the arms, Justinian at- m Procopins, Persic. lib. I.e. 26. 11 Almondar, king of Hira. was deposed by Kohad, and restored by Nnshirran,His mother, from her beaoty, was sarnamed Celestial Water, an appellation whiobbecame hereditary, and was extended for a more noble cause (liberality in famiDe)to the Arab princes of Syria. (Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 69, 70.) ° Procopins, Persic. lib. 2. c. 1. We are iguorant of the origin and objectof this strata, a paved road of ten days' journey from Auranitis to Babylonia,(see a Latin note in Delisle's Map Imp. Orient.) Wcsscling and d'Auvillo arcsilent.