OCR Output 252 TITUS RENEWS [B. VI. at due distances, and on it to engrave in Greek, and in yourown letters, this prohibition, — That no foreigner should gobeyond that wall ? have not we given you leave to kill suchas go beyond it, though ho were a Roman ? And what do youdo now, you pernicious villains ? Why do you trample upondead bodies in this temple ? and why do you pollute this holyhouse with the blood of both foreigners and Jews themselves ?I appeal to the gods of my own country, and to every godthat ever had any regard to this place (for I do not supposeit to be now regarded by any of them;) I also appeal to myown army, and to those Jews that are now with me, and evento you yourselves, that I do not force you to defile this yoursanctuary ; and if you will but change the place whereon youwill fight, no Roman shall either come near your sanctuary,or offer any affront to it; nay, I will endeavor to preserveyou your holy house whether you will or no." l 5. As Josephus explained these things from the mouth ofCaesar, both the robbers and the tyrant thought that theseexhortations proceeded from Titus's fear, and not from hisgood-will to them, and grew insolent upon it. But whenTitus saw that these men were neither to be moved by com­miseration towards themselves, nor had any concern uponthem to have the holy house spared, he proceeded unwillinglyto go on with the war again against them. He could not,indeed, bring all his army against them, the place was sonaiTow; but choosing thirty soldiers of the most valiant outof every hundred, and committing a thousand to each tri­bune, and making Cerealis their commander-in-chief, he gaveorders that they should attack the guards of the templeabout the ninth hour of that night. But as he was now inhis armor, and preparing to go down with them, his friendswould not let him go, by reason of the greatness of the danger,and what the commanders suggested to them; for they said,that " ho would do more by sitting above in the tower of An­ 1 That these seditious Jews were the direct occasions of their own destruc­tion, and of the conflagration of their city and temple, and that Titusearnestly and constantly labored to save both, is here and everywhere mostevident in Josephus.