OCR Output .550 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. For at that time both Herod's enemies andfriends despaired of his affairs: as it wasnot probable that he would remain withoutpunishment, who had shewed so much friend­ship for Antony. His friends despaired, andhad no hopes of his escape: but his ene­mies, though they outwardly appeared to betroubled at his case, were privately veryglad of it: as hoping to obtain a change forthe better. As for Herod himself, he sawthat there was no one of royal dignity left,but Hyrcanus; and therefore he thought itwould be for his advantage, not to suffer himto be an obstacle in his way any longer.For that in case he himself survived, andescaped the danger he was in, he thoughtit the safest way to put it out of the powerof such a man to make any attempt againsthim, at such junctures of affairs, as was moreworthy of the kingdom than himself: and incase he should be slain by Caesar, his envyprompted him to desire to slay him thatwould otherwise be king after him. While Herod had these things in his mind,there was a certain occasion afforded him.For Hyrcanus was of so mild a temper, thathe desired not to meddle with public affairs,nor to concern himself with innovations; butleft all to fortune, and contented himself withwhat that afforded him. But Alexandra hisdaughter was a lover of strife; and was ex­ceeding desirous of a change in the govern­ment: and spake to her father not to bearHerod's injurious treatment of their family,but to anticipate their future hopes, as hesafely might: and desired him to writeabout those matters to Malchus, who wasthen governor of Arabia, to receive them,and to secure them from Herod: for that ifthey went away, and Herod's affairs proved,as it was likely they would, by reason ofCaesar's enmity to him, they should then bethe only persons that could take the govern­ment: and this both on account of the royalfamily they were of, and on account of thegood disposition of the multitude towardthem. While she used these persuasions,Hyrcanus put off their suit. But as sheshewed that she was a woman, and a con­tentious woman too, and would not desist Roman empire, were each resolved to have all, andaccordingly agreed to throw the dice of war for it. either night or day; but would always bespeaking to him about these matters, andabout Herod's treacherous designs; she atlast prevailed with him to entrust Dositheus,one of his friends, with a letter; wherein hisresolution was declared: and he desired theArabian governor to send to him some horse­men, who should receive him, and conducthim to the lake Asphaltites: which is threehundred furlongs distant from the bounds ofJerusalem. And he did therefore trust Do­sitheus with his letter, because he was acareful attendant on him, and on Alexandra;and had no small occasion to bear ill will toHerod. For he was a kinsman of one Jo­seph, whom he had slain; and a brother ofthose that were formerly slain at Tyre byAntony. Yet could not these motives in­duce Dositheus to serve Hyrcanus in thisaffair: for preferring the hopes he had fromthe present king, to those he had from him,he gave Herod the letter. So he took hiskindness in good part; and bade him go onin serving him, by rolling up the epistle, andsealing it again, and delivering it to Malchus;and then to bring back his letter in answer toit: for it would be much better if he couldknow Malchus's intentions also. And whenDositheus was very ready to serve him in thispoint also, the Arabian governor returnedback for answer, that he would receive Hyr­canus, and all that should come with him, andeven all the Jews that were of his party; thathe would also send forces sufficient to securethem in their journey; and that he shouldbe in no want of any thing he should desire.Now as soon as Herod had received this let­ter, he immediately sent for Hyrcanus, andquestioned him about the league he hadmade with Malchus; and when he deniedit, he shewed his letter to the Sanhedrim,and put the man to death immediately. This account we give the reader, as it iscontained in the commentaries of king He­rod. But other historians do not agree withthem: for they suppose that Herod did notfind, but rather make, this an occasion forthus putting him to death: and that by trea­cherously laying a snare for him. For theywrite, that Herod and he were once at a Plutarch De Antonio; and Prideaux's Connection, anno33. B.