OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of Mæsia, whilst the main body of the army, consisting of seventythousand Germans and Sarmatians, a force equal to the most daringatchievements, required the presence of the Roman monarch, andthe exertion of his military power. Decius found the Goths engaged before Nicopolis, on the Jatrus. Various r ^ _ . , . _ . , _ . . events of th« one or the many monuments or Trajan s victories . On his Gothic war.approach they raised the siege, but with a design only of marching A" D" *S°'away to a conquest of greater importance, the siege of Philippopolis,a city of Thrace, founded by the father of Alexander, near thefoot of mount Hæmus Decius followed them through a diffi­cult country, and by forced marches; but when he imagined him­self at a considerable distance from the rear of the Goths, Cnivaturned with rapid fury on his pursuers. The camp of the Romanswas surprised and pillaged, and for the first time, their emperor fledin disorder before a troop of half armed barbarians. After along resistance, Philippopolis, destitute of succour, was taken bystorm. An hundred thousand persons are reported to have beenmassacred in the sack of that great city Many prisoners of con­sequence became a valuable accession to the spoil, and Priscu6 abrother of the late emperor Philip, blushed not to assume thepurple under the protection of the barbarous enemies of Rome".The time, however, consumed in that tedious siege, enabled Deciusto revive the courage, restore the discipline, and recruit the numbersof his troops. He intercepted several parties of Carpi, and otherGermans, who were hastening to share the victory of their country­men **, intrusted the passes of the mountains to officers of approvedvalour and fidelity '% repaired and strengthened the fortifications ofthe Danube, and exerted his utmost vigilance to oppose either theprogress or the retreat of the Goths. Encouraged by the return offortune, he anxiously waited for an opportunity to retrieve, by agreat and decisive blow, his own glory, and that of the Romanarms '6. • Kk 2 As