OCR Output G46 PO POLYMEMUM. "Tennisqus censu civitas Polygium est,Turn Mansa vicua oppidumque Naustalo."'There is nothing to say a!>out a place for whose bitethere is no sufficient evidence. Menard supposedit to be Bouriffuo* on the Ettsng de Tan. Thename seems to be Greek, and 'he place may be oneof the Massaliot settlements 01 this coast. [Nal- 8TALO]. [G.L.] POLYME'DIUM (IIoXv^Smv, Strab. xiii. pp.606,616; Polymedia, Plin. v. 30. s. 32), a smallplace in Mysia, between the promuntory Lectura andAsslis, and at the distance of 40 stadia from theformer. POLYRRHE'NIA(noAv#ijWa, Ptol.iii.l7.§ 10;T\«Kvfyy\v, WoKvpt}v, Steph. IS. 8. v., corrected byMeineke into TloXvfifavia; IloAAiytyjji'a, Seylax, p.18, corrected by Gail; V\o\vfyi\viov% Zenob. Prop.v. 50; Polyrrhenium, Plin. iv. 12. s. 20: Eth.tloKvpfrfmos, Polyb. iv. 53, 55; Strab. x. p. 479),a town in the NW. of Crete, whose territory occupiedthe whole western extremity of the island, extendingfrom N\ to S. (Seylax, p. 18.) Strabo describes itas lying W. of Cydonia, at the distance of 30 stadiafrom the sea, and 6D from Phalasarna, and as con­taining a temple of Dictynna. He adds that tliePolyrrhenians formerly dwelt in villages, and thatthey were collected into one plat e by the Achaeaniand Lacedaemonians, who built a strung city lookingtowards the south. (Strab. x. p. 479.) In thecivil wars in Crete in the time of the Achaean League,it. e. 219, the Polyrrhenians, who had been subjectallies of Cnossna, deserted the latter, and assistedthe Lyctians against that city. Tht*y also sent aux­iliary troops to the assistance of the Aehaeans, be­cause the Gnossians had supported the Aetolians.(Polyb. iv. 53, 55.) The ruins of Polyrrhenia,called Palaeokattro, near KUamo-KatUU^ exhibitthe remains of the ancient walls, from 10 to 18 feethigh. (Pashley, Crete, vol. ii. p. 46, seq.) POLYTIME'TUS. [Uxia Palls.] POME'TIA. [Suf.ssa Pometia.] POMPETI (no^n-Tjta, Strab.; Tlo^ir^ioi, DionCass,: Kth.Wo^wr\tavos, Pompeianus: Pompeii), anindent city of Campania, situated on the coast ofthe beautiful gulf called the Crater or Bay of Xapks,at the mouth of the river Sarnus (Sojuo), and im­mediately at the foot of Mount Vesuvius. It wasintermediate between Herculaneum and Stabiae.(Strab. v. p. 247; Pliny, iii. 5. s. 9; Mela, ii. 4. § 9.)All accounts agree in representing it as a very ancientcity: a tradition recorded by Solinus (2. § 5) ascribedits foundation to Hercules; but DionysiUS, who ex­pressly notices him as the founder of Herculaneum,says nothing of Pompeii(Dionys. i. 44). Strabo saysit was first occupied by the Oscans, subsequently bythe Tyrrhenians (Etruscans) and Pelasgians, andafterwards by the Samnites (Strab. I.e.). It con­tinued in the hands of these hist, that is, of thebranch of the nation who had assumed the name ofCampanians [CampaHIa], til] it passed under thegovernment of Home. It is probable that it becamefrom an early period a flourishing town, owing to itsadvantageous situation at the mouth of the Sarnus,which rendered it the port of Nola, Nuceria, and allthe rich plain watered by that river. (Strab. L c.)Hut we meet with no mention of its name in historyprevious to the Roman conquest of Campania. Inn. c. 310 it is mentioned for the fir^t time, when aRoman tleet under P. Cornelius touched there, andthe troops on board proceeded tVom thence to ravagethe territory of Nuceria. (Liv. ix. 38.) No sub- sequent notice of it ocSocial War (b.c. 91),taken a prominent parturned by Appian apartin enumerating the natirectiou. (Appian. B. tof the war (h. c. 89) Pof the insurgents, and iengagements that L. Sunite forces underL.CIu<refuge within the wallssiege of Pompeii. (Ap(Pat.ii. 16.) The resultIt is certain that the thands of Sulla . but wltion we are not informsmost probable, as it escits inhabitants were adnthough they lost a paria military colony wasunder the guidance aiP. Sulla. (Oie. pro Su254,468.) Before the (became, in common wtowns of Campania, a f;tinl.les, many of whomneighbourhood. Amonjthere, which he freijuenof "Pompeiannm," anda considerable establish]residences. (Cic. Acad.vii. 3, xii. 20.) Under tresorted to for the samthe pleasantness of itsfrom him and Tacitusflourishing town (" ceU22; Seu-iVbt vi. lwliich it received (as airand which is alluded toVeneria Conielia" (Motit seems to have reeeiperiod, probably under .termed a colony by Plinseveral inscriptions (MoIn the reign of Xerplace in the amphitheata dispute between the ccolonists of Nuceria, *which many persons weiPompeians were punishpruhibition of all gladiations for ten years. (Tayears after, the city suflquake, which to<»k pla<a. i>. 63. The expressitus would lead us to spart utterly destroyed; adencfl that the damage cgreat, the public buildmmost severely. (Sen. .N22.) The city had ha;lamity, when it met vtotally overwlielmed bysuvius in a. r>. 79, whieHerculaneum, under a diThe lass of life in thebecause the inhabitants vat the time when the caCass. lxvi. 23.) The youletters describing the ernut even uotice the deal