OCR Output Livr. act under the direction of the gods, displayed the sig­nal for battle. Just as He was going out to the fieldbe happened to receive intelligence fronj a deserterthat twenty cohorts of Samaites, consisting of aboutfour hundred each, had marched towards dominium.Lest his colleague should be ignorant of this, he in­stantly despatched a messenger to him, and then or­dered the troops to advance with speed, having alreadyassigned to each division of the army its proper post,and appointed general officers to command them. TheCommand of the right wing he gave to Lucius Volum-nius, that of the left to Lucius Scipio, that of the ca­valry to the other lieuteaants-general, Caius Caediciusand Caius Trebonius. He ordered Spurius Nautius totake off the panniers from, the mules, and to lead themround quickly, together with his auxiliary cohorts, toa. rising ground in view, and there to show himselfduring the heat of the engagement, and to raise as muchdust as possible. While the general was employed inmaking these dispositions a dispute arose among thekeepers of the chickens about the auspices of the day,which was overheard by some Roman horsemen, who,deeming it a matter too important to be slighted, in­formed Spurius Papirius, the consul's nephew, thatthere was a doubt about the auspices. The youth bornin an age when that sort of learning which inculcatescontempt of the gods was yet unknown, examined intothe affair, that he might not carry an uncertain reportto the consul; and then acquainted him with it. Hiaanswer was, ' I very much applaud your conduct andzeal. However, the person who officiates in taking theauspices, if he makes a false report, draws on his ownhead the evil portended; but to the Roman people andtheir army the favorable omen reported to me is anexcellent auspice.'- He then commanded the centurionsto place the keepers of the chickens in the front of theline. The San>nites likewise brought forward theirstandards followed by their main body, armed anddecorated in such a manner as to afford a magnificentshow. Before the shout was raised, or the battle begun,