OCR Output 394 LI VY. power to give matters a turn towards war, in case heremained in the province, or towards peace, if he wereto be removed. They chose for the meeting a part ofthe sea-shore, in the Malian gulf, near Nicasa. Thi­ther Philip came from Demetrias, with five barks andone ship of war: he was accompanied by some princi­pal Macedonians, and an Acheean exile, named Cycli-ades, a man of considerable note. With the Romangeneral Were king Amynander, Dionysidorus, ambas­sador from king Attalus, Agesimbrotus, commander ofthe Rhodian fleet, Phaeneas, pretor of the jEtolians, andtwo Achaeans, Aristaenus and Xenophon. Attendedby these, the Roman general advanced to the brink ofthe shore, and the king came forward to the prow ofhis vessel, as it lay at anchor; when the former said,'If you will come on the shore we shall converse withgreater ease.' This the king refused; and on Quin-tius asking him, ' Whom do you fear?' With thehaughty spirit of royalty, he replied, 'Fear I havenone, but of the immortal gods; but I have no confi­dence in the faith of those whom I see about you, andleast of all in the Jitolians.'—' That danger,' said theRoman, ' is equal in all cases; when men confer withan enemy, no confidence subsists.'—' But, Titus Quin-tius,' replied the king, 'if treachery be intended, theprizes of perfidy are not equal: Philip and Phwneas.For it will not be so difficult for the jEtolians to findanother pretor, as for the Macedonians to find anotherking in my place/—Silence then ensued. 33. The Roman expected that he who solicited theconference, should open it; and the king thought thathe who was to prescribe, not he who received termsof peace, ought to begin the conference. At lengththe Roman said that ' his discourse should be verysimple; for he would only mention those articles,without which no pacification could be admitted.These were that the king should withdraw his garri­sons from all the cities of Greece. That he shoulddeliver up to the allies of the Roman people the pri­soners and deserters; should restore to the Romans