OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 33 composed seven hundred lines. His sagacious mind explored the deepest questionsof morals, and metaphysics, ami he ventured to urge eighteen arguments againstthe Christian doctrine of the creation of the world. But, in the intervals of study,he fiersonally conversed with Pan, JEsculapius, and Minerva, in whose mysterieshe was secretly initiated, and whose prostrate statues he adored; in the'devoutpersuasion that the philosopher, who is a citizen of the universe, should be thepriest of its various deities. An eclipse of the sun announced his approaching end;and his life, with that of his scholar Isidore,(l) compiled by two o£ their mostlearned disciples, exhibits a deplorable picture of the second childhood of humanreason. Yet the golden chain, as it was fondly styled, of the Platonic succession,continued forty-four years from the death of Proclus, to the edict of Justinian,(2)■which imposed a perpetual silence on the schools of Athens, and excited the griefand indignation of the few remaining votaries of Grecian science and superstition.Seven friends and philosophers, Diogenes and Hermias, Eulalius and Priscian,Damascius, Isidore and Simplicius, who dissented from the religion of their sove­reign, embraced the resolution of seeking in a foreign land the freedom which wasdenied in their native country. They had heard, and they credulously believed,that the republic of Plato was realized in the despotic government of Persia, andthat a patriot king reigned over the happiest and most virtuous of nations. Theywere soon astonished by the natural discovery that Persia resembled the othercountries of the globe; that Chosroes, who affected the name of a philosopher, wasvain, cruel and ambitious; that bigotry, and a spirit of intolerance, prevailed amongthe Magi; that the nobles were haughty, the courtiers servile, and the magistratesunjust; that the guilty sometimes escaped, and that the innocent were often op­pressed. The disappointment of the philosophers, provoked them to overlook thereal virtues of the Persians; and they were scandalized, more deeply perhaps thanbecame their profession, with the plurality'of wives and concubines, the incestuousmarriages, and the custom of exposing dead bodies to the dogs and vultures, in­stead of hiding them in the earth, or consuming them with fire. Their repent­ance was expressed by a precipitate return, and they loudly declared, that theyhad rather die on the borders of the empire, than enjoy the wealth and favour ofthe barbarian. From this journey, however, they derived a benefit which reflectsthe purest lustre on the character of Chosroes. He required, that the seven sages,who had visited the court of Persia, should be exempted from the penal laws whichJustinian enacted against his pagan subjects; and this privilege expressly stipulatedin a treaty of peace, was guarded by the vigilance of a powerful mediator. (3) Sim­plicius and his companions ended their lives in peace and obscurity: and as theyleft no disciples, they terminated the long list of Grecian philosophers, who maybe justly praised, notwithstanding their defects, as the wisest and most virtuous oftheir cotemporaries. The writings of Simplicius are now extant. His physicaland metaphysical commentaries on Aristotle have passed away with the fashionof the times; but his moral interpretation of Epictetus is preserved in the libraryof nations, as a classic book, most excellently adapted to direct the will, to purifythe heart, and confirm the understanding, by a just confidence in the nature bothof God and man. About the same time that Pythagoras first invented the appellation philosopher,liberty and the consulship were founded at Rome by the elder Brutus. The revo­lutions of the consular office, which may be viewed in the successive lights of asubstance, a shadow, and a name, have been occasionally mentioned in the presenthistory. The first magistrates of the republic had been chosen by the people, toexercise, in the senate, and in the camp, the powers of peace and war, which wereafterwards translated to the emperors. But the tradition of ancient dignity waslong revered by the Romans and barbarians. A Gothic historian applauds theconsulship of Theodoric as the height of all temporal glory and greatness;(4) theking of Italy himself congratulates those annual favourites of fortune, who, with­out the cares, enjoyed the splendour of the throne; and at the end of a thousandyears, two consuls were created by the sovereigns of Rome and Constantinople, (1) The life of Isidore was composed by Damascius (spud Pholiunt, Cod. 242. p. 1028—1076.) See the lastage of the pagan philosophers in Bracker (torn. ii. p. 341—351.) (2) The suppression or the schools at Athens is recorded by John Malala (tool. ii. p. 187. lur Decio Cos. Sol.,)anil an anonymous Chronicle in the Vatican library (apud Aleman. p. 106.) (3) Agathias (lib. ii. p. 69—71,) relates this curions story. Chosroes ascended the throne in the year 531, andmade his first peace with the Romans in the beginning of 533, a date most compatible with bis young fame andold age of Isidore. ( Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. iii. p. 404. Pagi, torn. ii. p. 543. 050.) (4) Cauiodor. Vanarura Epist. yi. p. 1. Jornandes, civil, p. 690. edit. Grot. Quod sumraum bonuro pri*morna,ue in mundo decus edicitur. Vol. III. 5