OCR Output *34 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII. rally into a body, — the Bœotians first put a flop totheir career; and, rustling boldly upon them, routedand put them to flight. By this turn the Athenianswere thrown into so much disorder and confusion, thatthe particulars which followed cannot easily be gathered,neither from themselves nor their antagonists: for, evenin day light, when objects are clearest to the sight, menpresent in a battle are not able to fee all that paffeth;each single combatant can barely relate what happenedabout his own person. When, therefore, armies en­gage amidst the darkness of the night, (though this isthe only instance of it between powerful armies in thepresent war,) how is it possible to come at the know­ledge of the several incidents? The moon indeed{hone at this time ; but then they only saw one anotheras objects appear by moon-light, so as to discern theappearance of human bodies, but not to distinguish be­tween friends and enemies. The heavy-armed, far­ther, numerous on both sides, were too much croudedfor want of room. One party of the Athenians was al­ready clearly defeated; another, unbroken by the firstattack upon them, was pushing forwards. Of the re­mainder of their army, a great part had already mountedthe ascent; yet some were still busied in mounting up;but none of these, when they were got upon the emi­nence, knew which way to advance: for, before them,(as the rout was begun,) there was one grand medleyof confusion, and the tumult was so loud that no soundscould be distinctly heard. The Syraculans and theirconfederates were animating one another with loud ex­ultations (for the season of the night made all signalsuseless) to complete the blow, and were clearing beforethem all that came in their way: but the Athenianswere prying about for one another, and regarded everything they met, even though they fell in with their ownfriends, as the flight was now begun, for an assuredenemy. Obliged, farther, by frequent iterations to de­mand the word, as the only method to distinguish one another*