OCR Output TAUBAXITIUM. TAUBICA CHEBSONESUS. 1109 nntinm; but it appears that the true rending isruia, (Steph. B. j. p. ed. Hein.) [E. H. B.]TAURANTTIUM. a district of Armenia Majortj X. of Tigranocerta. in the direction of Ar­an. (Tie. Ann. xiv. 24; Cf. Moses Chor. i. 5;•r-, Krdhmdt, x. p. 650, sq.) [T. H. D]TATRA'SIA (Taurari), an ancient city of Sam-m, in the country of the Hirpini Kit tinted on theIt bank of the river Calor, about 16 miles above; ndi-n with the Tamarua. The name of thett known only from the inscription on the tombI. vip.> Barbatus, which records it among then of Samnium taken by him during the Thirdmite War. (OrelL lnser. 550.) It was probably■■n fiv assanlt, and suffered severely, for no suh-arnt mention of the town ocenrs in history : butterritory ("ager, qui Taurasinorum fuerat"),rh was doubtless confiscated at the same time, isrtwoed l«f afterwards-, as a part of the "agerfj-oi populi Romani," on which the Apuan Li-jr.i who had U-en removed from their ownl«j were established by order of the senate.Jl. 38.) These Ligiirians appear to havefilled in the plain on the banks of the Ta­li near its junction with the Cnlor; but therebe little doubt that the modern village of Tau-, though 16 miles further S., retains the name,marks (approximately at least) the site of thef« Tanr&sia. rreral modem writers identify these Taurasiniifi with the Armani Cam pi near Brneventum,ii were the scene of the defeat of Pyrrlius by M\a« Drutatus (Klor. i. 18; Oms. iv. 2), and thention is probable enough, though unsupportedirsuthoritv. [Bewkvkxtum.] [K. H. B.JAt*ttAL'NlTE& [Baoraudanese.].U'KE'SIUM (Tavpyvioy, Procop.de Aed. iv. 1.>6), a place in Hoesia Superior, near Sou pi ortiius Prima. It waa situated in the Haemus,*r fmm the borderland was the birthplace ofoiperur Justinian. (Cf. Gibbon, vol. v. p. 79,Etta.) [T. H. 1).] fctRI (Tavpot, Strab. vii. p. 308), the inhabitantsw Cbersonesos Tauriea, or modern Crimea. *'re probably the remains of the Cimmerians,wtr? driven out of the Chersonese by the Scy-a (Herod, iv. II, 12; Heeren, Idcen, i. 2.1: Mannert, ir. p. 278.) They seem to haveu'Wtdcd into several tribes: but the two main'« of* them were the nomad Tauri and theutnral. (Strab. vii. p. 311.) The former1 tbe northern port of the country, and livedAt, mare'a milk, and cheo-e prepared from it.Vricultural Tauri were somewhat more civil- i*: altfvethrr they were a rude and savage1 delighting in war and plunder, and jKirti-y addicted to piracy. (Herod, iv. 103; Strab.3US; Mela,u. 1 ; Tac. Ann. xii. 17.) Ncver- . :n eariv times at least, they appear to have tmitad under a monarchical governmentd. iv. 119). Their religion waa particularlyy aid horrible, consisting of human sacrificesnrgio goddeas, who, according to Ammianua'>Unua (xxii. 8. a. 34), was named Oreiloche,b the Greeks regarded her as identical withArtraiis, and called her Tauropolos. (Soph.72; Eur. Ipk. Taw. 1457; I>iod. iv. 44;Tat. viii. 2; Strab. xiiL 535; BbVkh. ftiscr. These victims consisted of shipwreckedK or Greeks that fell into their bands. After: than, they stack their heads upon poles, or, according to Amnuanus (/. c), affixed them to thewall of the temple, whilst they oast down the bodiesfrom the rook on which the temple stood. (Herod,iv. 103; Ov. ex Pont. iii. 2. 45, acq., Trist. iv. 4.63.) According to a tradition among the Taurithemselves, this goddess was Iphtgenia, the daughterof Agamemnon (Herod. /. r.) They had also a cus­tom of cutting off the heads of prisoners of war, andsetting them on poles above the chimneys of theirhouses, which usage they regarded as a protectionof their dwellings {lb). If the king died, allhis dearest friends were buried with him. On thedecease of a friend of the king's, he either cutoff the whole or part of the deceased person's ear,according to his dignitv. (Nic. Damase. p. 160,Orell.) [T. H. D-] TAURIA'NUM (7rartW>), a town on the W.const of Bruttium, near the mouth of the river Me-taurus (Marro). Its name is mentioned by Mela,who places it between Scylla and Metaunim. Itwas probably, therefore, situated to the S. of theriver, while the town of Metaunim was on its N.bank. Subsequently all trace of the latter disap­pears; but the name of Tauriana is still found inthe Tabula, which places it 23 miles S. of ViboValentia. (Mel. ii. 4. § 8; Tab. Pent.) It becamethe see of a bishop in the later ages of the Komanempire, and retained that dignity down to the timeof Gregory VII., when the town had fallen intocomplete decay. Its ruins, however, still exist, andthe site is said to retain the name of Trariano.(Hoisten. Not. ad Cluver. p. 299; Komanelli, vol. Lp. 70.) There can be no doubt that the "Tauroertumoppidmn" of Pliny (iii. 5. s. 10), which he mentionsimmediately after the " Metaurus amnis," is the samepla.e that is called by Mela Taurianum. [K. H. B.] TAU'RICA CHERSONE'SUS (y Tavptxh X*p-ffSrnoos, Piol. iii. Arg. 2, &c), a peninsula stretch­ing into the Pontus Kuxinu* from Sarmatia, or thecountry of the nomad Scythians, with which it isconnected by a narrow isthmus, anciently calledTaphrus, or Taphrae, now the isthmus of PerecopThe peninsula also bore the name of ChrraonesusScythica. and whs sometimes styled simply Tauriea,(Ph'n. iv. 12. s. 26; Scylax, i. *p. 29, Hilda.) It wnow called the Crimea, from the once famous city ofKuki-Krim; but since its incorporation with theKu>Man empire, the name of Ttturica has also beenagain applied to it. The isthmus which connects the peninsula withSarmatia is so slender, being in some parts scarcely40 stadia or 5 miles across (Strab. vii. p. 308;Clarke, Trar. ii. p. 314, 4th ed. 1816), as tomake it probable that in a very remote periodTauriea was an island. (Plin. /. c.; cf. Pallas,Voyages, &c, ii. p. 2, Yr. Transl. 4to.) Theancients compared it with the Peloponnesus, * ith aito size and stupe (Strab. vii. p. 310; cf. Herod, iv.99); and this comparison is sufficiently happy, ex-cept that Tauriea throws out another smaller penin­sula on its K. side, the Bosporan j«eninsula, or penin­sula ot" KrrUch, which helps to form the S. boundary,or const, of the Palus Maeotis. The Chersonese isabout 200 miles across in a direct line from CapeTatrhan, its extreme W. point, to the Straits ofKerUch, and 125 miles from N. to S., from Perecopto Cape Kikineu. It contains an area of about10.050 sqnare miles. Nearly three-fourths ofTanrica consist of tint plains little elevated abovethe sea; the remainder towards the S. is mouu­