OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 315 fleet to give security to the Athenians, it was as muchas could be expected at present. Fortune threw in hisway an opportunity of accomplishing an enterprise ofgreater moment. 23. Some exiles driven from Chalcis, by ill treat­ment received from the king's party, brought intelli­gence that the place might be taken without even acontest; for the Macedonians, being under no imme­diate apprehension from an enemy, were straying idlyabout the country; and the townsmen, depending onthe Macedonian garrison, neglected the guard of thecity. Claudius, in consequence of this, set out, andthough he arrived at Sunium early enough to havesailed forward to the entrance of the strait of Euboea,yet fearing that, on doubling the promontory, he mightbe descried by the enemy, he lay by with the fleetuntil night. As soon as it grew dark he began tomove, and favored by a calm, arrived at Chalcis a littlebefore day; and then, approaching the city, on a sidewhere it was thinly inhabited, with a small party ofsoldiers, and by means of scaling ladders, he got pos­session of the nearest tower, and the wall on eachside. Finding in some places the guards asleep, andother parts left without any watch, they advanced tothe more populous parts of the town, and having slainthe sentinels, and broke open a gate, they gave anentrance to the main body of the troops. These im­mediately spread themselves through all parts of thecity, and increased the tumult by setting fire to thebuildings round the forum, by which means both thegranaries belonging to the king, and his armory, witha vast store of machines and engines, were reduced toashes. Then commenced a general slaughter of thosewho fled, as well as of those who made resistance; andafter having either put to the sword or driven out everyone who was of an age fit to bear arms, (Sopater also,the Acarnanian, who commanded the garrison, beingslain,) they first collected all the spoils in the forum,and then carried it on board the ships. The prison, too,was forced open by the iihodians, and those whom Philip