OCR Output ; Of.THP. ROMAN EMPIRE. 383 ornament was of a more singular nature, a Persian, victory followedby an .important conquest. The represeatations of rivers* moun­tains, and provinces, were carried before tbe imperial cw?. Theimages of the captive wives, sisters, and children of the great king*afforded a new and grateful spectacle to the vanity of the people 8z.In the eyes of posterity this triumph is remarkable, by a distinctionof a less honourable kind. It was the last that Rome ever be­held. Soon after this period, the emperors ceased to vanquish.) andRome ceased to be the capital of the empire. The spot on which Rome was founded, had been consecrated Long absence * • • • -i n-n r oftheempe- by ancient ceremonies and imaginary miracles. The pretence rorsfromof some god, or the memory of some hero, seemed to animate Rome*Ævery part of the city* and the empire of the world had beenpromised to the Capitol8S. The native Romans felt and confessedthe power of this agreeable illusion- It was derived from theirancestors, had grown up with their earliest habits of life, and wasprotected, in some measure, by the opinion of political utility.The form and the seat of government were intimately blendedtogether, nor was it esteemed possible to transport the one withoutdestroying the other S'. But the sovereignty of the capital wasgradually annihilated in the extent of conquest ; the provinces rose tothe same level, and the vanquished nations acquired the nameand privileges, without imbibing the partial affections, of Romans.During a long period, however, the remains of the ancient con­stitution, and the influence of custom, preserved the dignity ofRome. The emperors, though perhaps of African or Ulyrianextraction, respected their adopted country, as the feat of theirpower, and the center of their extensive dominions. The emer­gency of war very frequently required their presence on the fron­tiers ; but Diocletian and Maximian were the first Roman princeswho fixed, in time of peace, their ordinary residence in the pro»«vinces j and their conduct, however it might be suggested by private 4 motives*