OCR Output 162 LIVY. man and of the unseasonableness of the juncture; in­somuch, that the senate would have proceeded to ordera dictator to be created, but that an assembly, held forthe purpose of substituting a new consul, was con­ducted agreeably to the wishes of people of the firstconsequence. All the votes and centuries concurredunanimously in appointing Marcus Valerius consul,the same whom the senate would have ordered to bemade dictator. They then commanded him to proceedimmediately into Etruria to the legions. His cominggave such a check to the Etrurians that not one ofthem dared thenceforward to appear on the outside oftheir trenches; their own fears operating as a blockade.Nor could the new consul, by wasting their lands andburning their houses, draw them out to an engage­ment ; for not only country houses, but numbers oftheir towns, were seen smoking and in ashes on everyside. While this war proceeded more slowly than hadbeen expected, an account was received of the break­ing out of another; which was, not without reason,regarded as terrible, in consequence of the heavy lossesformerly sustained by both parties. This account, givenby their new allies the Picentians, was, that the Sam-Miles were taking measures for a renewal of hostilities,and that they themselves had been solicited to jointherein. The Picentians received the thanks of thestate ; and a large share of the attention of the senatewas turned from Etruria towards Samnium. The pub- - lie suffered also much distress from the dearness ofprovisions, and would have felt the extremity of want,according to the relation of those who make FabiusMaximus curule edile that year, had not the vigilantactivity of that man, such as he had on many occasionsdisplayed in the field, been exerted now with equalzeal at home, in the management of the market, and inprocuring and forming magazines of corn. An inter­regnum took place this year, the reason of which is . not mentioned. Appius Claudius, and, after him,Publius Sulpicius, were interreges. [A. U. C. 464.B.C. 2S)8.] The latter held an election of consuls, and