OCR Output MESSENIA. MESSENIA. 341 I. General Description of the Country. Messenia, in its general features, resembles La­conia. The Pamisus in Messenia, like the Eurotasin Laoonia, flows through the entire length of thecountry, from north to south, and forms its mostcultivated and fertile plains. But these plains aremuch larger than those in Laconia, and constitutea considerable portion of the whole country; whilethe mountains on the western coast of Messenia aremuch less rugged than on the eastern coast ofLaconia, and contain a larger proportion of fertileland. Hence the rich plains of Messenia are oftencontrasted with the sterile and rugged soil of Laconia;and the climate of the former country is praised bythe ancients, as temperate and soft, in comparisonwith that of the latter. The basin of the Pamisus isdivided into two distinct parts, which are separatedfrom each other on the east by a ridge of mountainsextending from Mt, Taygetus to the Pamisus, andon the west by Mt. It home. The upper part,called the plain of Stenyclerus or Stenyclarus (t62-TfWK\7i(nHby weoiW), is of small extent andmoderate fertility, and is entirely shut in by moun­tains. The lower plain, which ojens to the Mes­senian gulf, is much more extensive, and was some­times called Macaria (Matcapid), or the "Blessed,"oo account of its surprising fertility. (Strab. viii.p. 361.) It was, doubtless, to this district thatEuripides referred, when he described the excellenceof the Messenian soil as too great for words toexplain, and the land as watered by innumerablestreams, abounding in fruits and flocks; neither toohut in summer, nor too cold in winter. (Eurip. ap.Strab. viii. p. 366.) Even in the present day,although a part of the plain has become marshy byneglecting the embankments of the Pamisus, it isdescribed by travellers as the most fertile district inthe Peloponnesus. It now produces oil, silk, figs,wheat, maize, cotton, wine, and honey, and presentsas rich a cultivation as can well be imagined.(Leake. Morea, vol. i. pp. 347, 352.) Besides thePamisus, numerous other streams and copious per­ennial springs gush in all directions from the baseof tbe mountains. The most remarkable feature onthe western coast is the deep bay of Pylos, nowcalled Satarino, which is the best, and indeed theonly really good harbour in the Peloponnesus. II. Mountains, Promontories, Rivers, and Islands.1. Mountains.— The upper plain, in which aretbe sources of the Pamisus, was the original abodeof tbe Messenians, and the stronghold of the nation.H*re was Andania, the capital of the most ancientMc**nian kings. Thither tbe Mcssenians retreated,a* often as they were overpowered by their enemiesis tbe lower plains, for here were their two greatDatura! fortresses, Ithotne and Eira, the formercommanding the entrance to the lower plain, andtbe latter situated in the mountains, which rise inthe northern part of the upper plain. These moun­tains, now called Tetrda, form, as has been already•aid. the watershed of the rivers Neda, Pamisus, andAifJieius. From this central ridge, which is 4554feet high, a chain extends towards the west, alongthe banks of the Neda, and is also prolonged towardstV sooth, forming the mountains of the westernpfraiuala, and terminating at the promontory Acritas.Ynrn tbe same central ridge of Tetrdzi, anotherchain extends towards the east, dividing the Mea­tman plain from the upper basin of the Alpheius, and then uniting with Mount Taygetus, and form­ing the barrier between the basins of the lowerPamisus and the Eurotas. These two mountainchains, which, issuing from the same point, almostmeet about half-way between Mount Tatrdzi and thesea, leave only a narrow defile through which thewaters of the Pamisus force their way from theupper to the lower plain. South of this defile themountains again retire to the east and west, leavinga wide opening for the lower plain, which has beenalready described. Scarcely in any part of Greece have the names ofthe ancient mountains been so little preserved as inMessenia. Tetrdzi was perhaps the mountainsof Eira. Tbe eastern continuation of Tetrazi. nownamed Mahypbii, formed part of tbe ancientMt, Nomia. (No^iia Spn, Psus. viii. 38. § 11.)The western prolongation of Tetrazi along thebanks of the Neda was called Elaf.uh ('EAdW),now Kuvela, And was partly in the territories ofPhigalia. (Paus. viii. 41. § 7.) The mounuinsIthome and Evan are so closely connected withthe city of Messene that they are described underthat head. [Mkssene.] In the southern chainextending down the western peninsula, the namesonly of Aegaleum, Buphras, Tomeus or Mathia,and Temathia have been preserved. Akoalkum(AryaA.e'oi') appears to have been the name of thelong and lofty ridge, running parallel to the westernshore between Cyparissia and Coryphasium (Pylos);since Strabo places the Messenian Pylos at the footof Mt. Aegaleum (viii. p. 359; Leake, Morea, vol. i.pp. 426, 427). Blpiikas ()'; Bovippis) andTomeus (o Tu/ui'v) are mentioned by Thucydides(iv. 118) as points near Coryphasium (Pylos),beyond which the Lacedaemonian garrison in thelatter place were not to pass. That they weremountains we may conclude from the statement ofStepbanus B., who speaks of the TouaToF oposnear Coryphasium. (Stcph. B. s. v. Topifit.) Te­mathia (TijpoMa), or Matiiia (Madia, the readingis doubtful), was situated, according to Pausanias(iv. 34. § 4), at the foot of Corone, and must there­fore correspond to Lykotlimo, which rises to theheight of 3140 feet, and is prolonged southward ina gradually falling ridge till it terminates in thepromontory Acritas. 2. Promontories. — Of these only four are men­tioned by name, — Acritas (Ahdi'tos), now C.Gallo, the most southerly point of Messenia [Acri­tas]; and on the west coast Corvhiasiim,forming the entrance to the bay of Pylus [Pylus];Platamodf.3 (TWarapuiSris, Strab. viii. p. 348),called by Pliny (iv. 5. s. 6) Platanodes, distant,according to Strabo (f. c), 120 stadia N. of Cory­phasium, and therefore not far from Aia Kyriake(Leake, vol. i. p. 427); and lastly Cyparissium[Cyparissia], a little further north, so called fromthe town Cyparissia. 3. Rivers.— The Pamisus (napis-os) is describedby Strabo as the greatest of the rivers within tlioIsthmus (viii. p. 361); but this name is only givenby the ancient writers to the river in the lowerplain, though the modems, to facilitate the descrip­tion of the geography of the country, apply thisname to the whole course of the waters from theirsources in the upper plain till they fall into theMessenian gulf. The principal river in the upperplain was called Bai.yha (BaKt'pa). It rises nearthe village of Sulimd, and flows along the westernside of the plain: two of the streams composing it z 3