OCR Output 424 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap, empire, by placing the Imperial crown on the headXL- of Charlemagne, in the year 800 *. But the empireof this prince, which was extended by his conquests,till it embraced the far greater part of France, Spain,Italy, Germany, and Hungary, was in a short timereduced from the highest degree of strength to thelowest condition of weakness. The reign of his sonLewis the First was distracted by civil war. Theempire was divided among his three sons. The dregsof the Carlovingian race no longer exhibited anysymptoms of virtue or power; and the ridiculousepithets of the Bald, the Stammerer, the Simple, andthe Fat, distinguished the dates and uniform featuresof a crowd of kings, alike deserving of oblivion.Charles the Fat was deprived of his crown in a diet.Germany and France were for ever separated; and aperiod of seventy-four years may be termed a vacancyfrom the abdication of Charles the Fat to the esta­blishment of the power of Othq the First, in theyear 962. But the events of the ninth and tenth centuries inthe west of Europe, the fall of the Carlovingian race,and the establishment of the present Constitution ofthe Germanic empire, belong to the histories ofFrance and Germany; and can scarcely be said toform a part of the decline and fall of the Romanempire. That empire expired in the West in theperson of Augustulus, in the middle of the fifth cen­tury; and the connexion of Romagna with Con­stantinople, which the arms of Justinian re-esta­blished, was finally dissolved by Astolphus, when herendered himself master of Ravenna. In the East,the Roman world bowed to the government of a fe­ * This great event of the translation or restoration of the empire is related and discussed by Natalis Alexander (secul. ix. dissert, i. p. 390 337), Pagi (tom iii p. 418;, Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, tom. iv. p. 339—352), Sigo'nius de Regno"Italiae, 1. iv. opp. tom. ii. p. 247—251), Spanheim (de ficta translaiione Imperii)Giannone (tom. i. p. 395—405), St. Marc (Abrege Chronologique, tom. i. p.438—450), Guillard (Hist, de Charlemagne, tom. ii. p. 386—44G'.