OCR Output JERUSALEM. 27 JERUSALEM. This memorable siege baa been thought worthy ofspecial mention by Tacitus, and his lively abridg­ment, as it would appear, of Josephus's detailednarrative, mast have served to raise his country­men's ideas, both of the military prowess and of thepowers of endurance of the Jews. The city was wholly demolished except the threetowers Hippicus, Phasaelus, and Mariamne, and somuch of the western wall as would serve to protectthe legion left there to garrison the place, and pre­vent any fresh insurrectionary movements amongthe Jews, who soon returned and occupied the ruins.The palace of Herod on Mount Sion was probablyconverted into a barrack for their accommodation, asit had been before used for the same purpose. (JBelLJwi. vii. I. § 1, ii. 15. § 5, 17. $§ 8, 9.) Sixty years after its destruction, Jerusalem wasvisited by the emperor Hadrian, who then conceivedthe idea of rebuilding the city, and left his friendand kinsman Aquila there to superintend the work,a. t>. 130. (Epiphanius, de Pond, et Mem. §§ 14,15.) He had intended to colonise it with Romanveterans, but his project was defeated or suspendedby the outbreak of the revolt headed by Barco-chebas, his son Rufus, and his grandson Romulus.The insurgents first occupied the capital, and at­tempted to rebuild the Temple: they were speedilydi=l<*lged, and then held out in Bethar for nearlythree years. [Bbthar.] On the suppression ofthe revolt, the building of the city was proceededwith, and luxurious palaces, a theatre, and temples,with other public buildings, fitted it for a Romanpopulation. The Chronicon Alexandrinum men­tions tA Svo Sr/poVta Kai to Utarpev xal to toikc£-fitpov ttal to Terpdwfjupov teal rb oaiitKdwv\oy rb•wplw ivofia{6n<voy 6va6a9uo\ xal t^v Kobpav.A temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, from whom thecity derived its new naine, occupied the site of theTemple, and a tetrastvle fane of Venus was raisedover the site of the Holy Sepulchre. The ruinedTemple and city furnished materials for these build­ings. The city was divided into seven quarters(a/i£o8ai),e*ch of which had its own warden (&n$o-Mpx1)')- Part of Mount Sion was excluded fromthe city, as at present, and was "ploughed as afield.' (Micah, iii. 12; St. Jerome, Comment, inbe.; Itinerarium Hirrosol. p. 592, ed. Wcsseling.)The history of Aelia Capitolina has been made thesubject of distinct treatises by C. E. Deyling, "AeliaeCipitclinac Origines et Historia" (appended to hisfather's Obtervationet Sacrae, vol. v. p. 433, &c),and by Dr. Miinter, late Bishop of Copenhagen(translated by W. Wadden Turner, and publishedin Dr. Robinson's Bibliotlteca Sacra, p. 393, &c),«ho have collected all the scattered notices of it asa pagan city. Its coins also belong to this period,sad extend from the reign of Hadrian to Severus.Ote of the former emperor (imp. caes. traian.nADKlAirvs. avg., which exhibits Jupiter in aUtrastyle temple, with the legend col- aei,. cap.)confirms the account of Dion Cassius (lxix. 12), thata temple to Jupiter was erected on the site of God'stemp'e (Eckhel, Doct. Num. Vet. pars i. torn. iii.p. 443); while one of Antoninus (antokinvs. avo.Piva. p. p. TR. P. cos. in., representing Venus in asimilar temple, with the legend c. A. c. or col. ael.tap.) no less distinctly confirms the Christian tra­dition that a shrine of Venus was erected over theSepulchre of our Lord. ( Vaillant, Numismata A ereaImprraL m Col pt. i. p. 239; Eckhel, /. c. p. 442.)Under the emperor Constantine, Jerusalem, which had already become a favourite place of pilgrimageto the Christians, was furnished with new attractionsby that emperor and his mother, and the erection ofthe Martyry of the Resurrection inaugurated a newaera of the Holy City, which now recovered its an­cient name, after it had apparently fallen into com­plete oblivion among the government officers inI'alaestine itself. (Euseb. de Mart. PalauL cap. ii.)The erection of his church was commenced the yearafter the Council of Nicaea, and occupied ten years.It was dedicated on the tricennalia of the emperor,A. d. 336. (Euseb. Vita Comtantini, iii. 30—40,iv. 40—47.) Under the emperor Julian, the cityagain became an object of interest to the pagans,and the account of the defeat of Julian's attempt torebuild the Temple is preserved by Ammianus Mar-cellinus, an unexceptional witness (xsiii 1: all thehistorical notices are collected by Bishop Warburton,in his work on the subject, entitled Julian.) In451, the sec of Jerusalem was erected into a patri­archate; and its subsequent history is chiefly occu­pied with the conflicting opinions of its incumbentson the subject of the heresies which troubled thechurch at that period. In the following century(cir. 532) the emperor Justinian emulated the zealof his predecessor Constantine by the erection ofchurches and hospitals at Jerusalem, a completeaccount of which has been left by Procopius. {DeAedificiis Justin ani, v. 6.) In A. D. 614, the citywith all its sacred places was desolated by thePersians under Chosroes II., when, according to thecontemporary records, 90,000 Christians, of bothsexes and of all ages, fell victims to the relentlessfury of the Jews, who, to the number of 26,000,had followed the Persians from Galilee to Jerusalemto gratify their hereditary malice by the massacroof the Christians. The churches were immediatelyrestored by Modestus; and the city was visited byHeraclius (a. d. 629) after his defeat of the Per­sians. Five years later (a. d. 634) it was investedby the Saracens, and, after a defence of four months,capitulated to the khalif Omar in person; sincewhich time it has followed the vicissitudes of thovarious dynasties that have swayed the destinies ofWestern Asia. It remains to add a few words concerning themodern city and its environs. V. The Modekx City. El-Kods, the modem representative of its mostancient name Kadeshah, or Cadytis, " is surroundedby a high and strong cut-stone wall, built on thesolid rock, loop-holed throughout, varying from25 to 60 feet in height, having no ditch." It wasbuilt by the sultan Suliman (a. n. 1542), as is de­clared by many inscriptions on the wall and gates-It is in circuit about 2J miles, and has four gatesfacing the four cardinal points. 1. The Jaffa Gate,on the west, called by the natives Bab-el-Hallil, i. e.the Hebron Gate. 2. The Damascus Gate, on thonorth, Bab-el-'AmQd, the Gate of the Column.3. The St. Stephen's Gate, on the east, Bab-Sitti-Miryam, St. Mary's Gate. 4. The Sion Gate, onthe south, Bab-cn-Nebi Dade!, the Gate of the Pro­phet David. A fifth gate, on the south, near themouth of the Tyropoeon, is sometimes opened tofacilitate the introduction of the water from a neigh­bouring well. A line drawn from the Jaffa dateto the Mosk, along the course of the old wall, andanother, cutting this at right angles, drawn fromthe Sion to the Damascus Gate, could divide the