OCR Output PALAESTINA. PALAESTIKA. tie borier of the Canaanites was from Sid on, as•^■a earnest to Gerar, anlo Gaza; as thou goest*aw Sedan, ami Gomorrah, and Admah, and Ze-h«m. rrea onto La&ha ' (x. 15—19). Aa several— ia:: r< -vur n-- n:or.- in tin- history of Pales-titst, wr mart tnppose cither that the places reappear#- other names, or that these tribes, having■*alir <iW within the limits here assigned,migrated to the north, where we cer-awJ? find the Anradites and Hamathites in latertanea. Of the eleven families above named, thefeic hx are found in the subsequent history of"-i * country: the descendants of Sidon on the coastt. *v north: the children of Heth in Hebron, on the■nth: the Jebuidtea to the north of these, in theearaaasse ahout Jerusalem; the Amoritcs to the east•f the HiUites, on the west of the Dead Sea; thetcs, supposed to be a branch of the llivites, who were situated north of the Jebu-ata« a Sherbera and its vicinity. (Gen. xxxiv. 2.)TW a act le the aoath was wrested from the Canaan-early times, if they ever possessed it; forthe records of history the Philistines,of Hixraim, not of Canaan, were mas-< the greet we*tern plain (x. 14). The die*nan of iIm country among these tribes is in-further confusion by the introductiun of•* fVuaito with tbe Canaanites as joint occupiers(xiii. 7). and by the fact of the Ca-arpearing as a distinct tribe, where thetike Amoritea, the Girgashites, and tliet were all alike Canaanites, are sever­ed (xv. 19—21). It would appearwhile the name Canaanites was used in arestricted sense in the last cited passage, the</ the particular families were sometimes usedwhich may account for thewe have already fixed to theef laiaii iln in, being found to the north ofart, a the i*eighbourh«>d of Bethel. (Judges,) It same be, however, that the seats of thei those early times were not fixed,with the tide of conquest or withof a pastoral people: an exampleay be found in the victories of Che-r {Gem. xir.), *nd of the latter in the many * of Abraham with his numerous depend-* hi- .i^evndants, which finally trans- t aHsole a£ his posterity into Egypt furof soar centuries (xii. 6—10, xiii. 1—PLxx 1, xxri. 1, &c). To attempt to tracemigrat vm* were a fruitless task: withvery naty notice* which we possess ; but theaW g—I disposition of the Canaanilishlist period of the Eiaodua of the Israelites-as mar be approximately ascertained, and, jajjajjplMP of the distribution of the land * hatter. The tribes then in occupation ofww to be> seven (Drut. vii. 1), and are ■ ** Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, . Jebositea," only six (h'xod. iii. 8,best m Deuteronomy (/. c.) and JoshuaGtrgasiiites are added, which completesOf these the Amoritea occupied theor probably shared it with theit was with tbe latter that thewere first brought into collision. (Exod.9; '',mf xir. 25, 43—45.) This was« fj>e Mount of the Amorites **; > aad their relative position with the other tribes ia thus clearly stated: — "The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south,and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amor­itea (Joshua, xi. 3, adds the Perizzites), dwell inthe mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by thesea,aud by the coast of Jordan." (Numb. xiii. 28,29.)The limits of the Amorite territory are further definedby the confederacy of the five sheikhs of Jerusalem,Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon, all of whomwere Amorites (Josh. x. 5); while the bill-countryimmediately to the north and west of Jerusalem,comprising Gibeon, Chephirah, Betroth, and Kir-jath-jearim was held by the Hivites (ix. 3, 7, 17, xi.19), who are also found, at the same period, fur tothe north, " under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh"(xi. 3; Judges, iii. 3), as two large and powerfulkingdoms of the Amorites coexisted on the east ofthe Jordan [Amorites], the older inhabitantshaving been driven out. It is worthy of remarkthat during the occupation of Palestine by theseCanaanites it is already called the land of theHebrews " or Heberites, which can only be accountedfor by an actual residence in it of Heber himself andhis race, which goes far to prove that the Canami-itish tribes were only intruders in the Land ofPromise. (Gen. xl. 15; see Christian liemem-braticer, vol. xviii. p. 451.) For fuller detailsreference may be made to Heland (Palaestma, cap.xxvii. pp. 135—141) and Bochart (Phaleg. lib. iv.capp. 34—37). 2. Second period. — We have now to considerthe division of Palestine among the twelve tribe* ofIsrael, on the settlement of the land by Joshua theson of Xun; and the Scripture statement comparedwith Josephus will furnish numerous landmarks,which a more careful survey of the country than baayet been made would probably bring to light :iLthe present day. To begin with the cis-Jordanictribes:— Judah, Simeon, Am.—The south border of Judahwas bounded by the country of Edom and the wil­derness of Zin; the frontier being plainly defined bya chain of hills, of con.-dderable elevation, forming anatural barrier from the southern bay of the DeadSea on the east to the Mediterranean on the west, inwhich line the following points are named, viz., theascent or pass of Acrabbim, Zin, Kadesh-Barnta,Hezron, Adar, Karkaa, Azmon, the river of Egypt.The east border extended along the whole length ofthe Dead Sea to the mouth of the Jordan, fromwhich the north lwrder was drawn to the Mediter­ranean along an irregular line, in which Jerusalemwould be nearly the middle point. The road fromJerusalem to Jericho passes immediately within theline, and 'Ain-er-Rcs&ul^ W'ady Kelt, Kulaat-ed-Dammim, and 'A in or A'wsr Hajlah, are easily iden­tified with Enshemesh, the river, Adummim, andBeth-hogla. It pasted south of Jerusalem, fromEnrogel up the valley of Hinnom, by Nephtoah,Mount Ephron, Kirjath-jearim, Bethshemesh, Tim-nah, Ekron, Sbicbron, and Jabneel. Their citieswere, as stated in the summary, 29 in number, inthe south division of the tribe, on the borders ofEdom; but the names, as recounted in the Eng­lish version, are 39. The discrepancy is to beaccounted for, as Keland remarks, by several of thowords, regarded as proper, or separate names, beingcapable of translation as ap[iellaUvcs or as adjunctsto other names. In the valley, including under thatname the declivity of the western plain and theplain itself, there were 14+ 16 + 9 =39 towns, wit litheir villages, besides the cities of the Philistii.es M M