OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 57 whoever he might approve as an associate with him­self in the command, chose that very man in prefer­ence to all the other consular tribunes. Nay, the bodyof the people themselves, whose power is supreme inevery case, never suffered their passions to carry themto greater severity, even towards those who, throughrashness and ignorance, had occasioned the I09S ofarmies, than the fining them a sum of money. Untilthat day a capital prosecution for ill conduct in warhad never been instituted against any commander, butnow, generals of the Roman people, after gaining themost splendid victories, and meriting the most honor­able triumphs, are threatened with rods and axes ; atreatment which would not have been deemed allow­able, even towards those who had been defeated by anenemy. What degree of punishment would his sonhave been liable to, if he had occasioned the loss ofthe army ? if he had been put to fight, and driven outof his camp? Could the dictator stretch his resentmentand violence to- any greater length than to scourgehim, and put him to death? How was it consistentwith reason that, through the means of Quintus Fa-bius, the state should be filled with joy, exulting invictory, and occupied in thanksgivings and congratu­lations ; while, at the same time, he who had givenoccasion to the temples of the gods being thrown open,their altars yet smoking with sacrifices, and loadedwith honors and offerings, should be stripped naked,and torn with stripes in the sight of the Roman peo­ple, within view of the capitol and citadel, and ofthose gods, whose aid he had so successfully invokedin two different battles? With what temper wouldsuch proceedings be borne by the army which hadconquered under his conduct and auspices ? Whatmourning would there be in the Roman camp; whatjoy among their enemies V This speech he accompa­nied with an abundant flow of tears; uniting re­proaches and complaints, imploring the aid both ofgods and men, and warmly embracing his son.'34. On his side stood the majesty of the senate, the