OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387 A new spirit of legislation, respectable even in its error, °farose in the empire with the religion of Constantine." tian em-The laws of Moses were received as the divine original Peror*•of justice, and the Christian princes adapted their penalstatutes to the degrees of moral and religious turpitude.Adultery was first declared to be a capital offence; thefrailty of the sexes was assimilated to poison or assassina­tion, to sorcery, or parricide; the same penalties were in­flicted on the passive and active guilt of paederasty; andall criminals of free or servile condition were either drown­ed or beheaded, or cast alive into the avenging flames.The adulterers were spared by the common sympathy ofmankind; but the lovers of their own sex were pursuedby general and pious indignation; the impure mannersof Greece still prevailed in the cities of Asia, and everyvice was fomented by the celibacy of the monks andclergy. Justinian relaxed the punishment at least of fe­male infidelity; the guilty spouse was only condemnedto solitude and penance, and at the end of two years shemight be recalled to the arms of a forgiving husband.But the same emperor declared himself the implacableenemy of unmanly lust, and the cruelty of his persecu­tion can scarcely be excused by the purity of his motives.0In defiance of every principle of justice, he stretched topast as well as future offences the operations of his edicts,with the previous allowance of a short respite for confes­sion and pardon. A painful death was inflicted by theamputation of the sinful instrument, or the insertion of!sharp reeds into the pores and tubes of most exquisitesensibility; and Justinian defended the propriety of theexecution, since the criminals would have lost theirhands had they been convicted of sacrilege. In this stateof disgrace and agony, two bishops, Isaiah of Rhodes, » See the laws of Constantine and his successors against adultery, sodomy, &c. inthe Theodosian (lib. 9. tit. 7. leg. 7. lib. 11. tit. 36. leg. 1. 4.) and Justinian Codes.(Jib. 9. tit. 9. leg. 30,31.) These princes speak the language of passion as well asof justice, and fraudulently ascribe their own severity to the first Caesars. ° Justinian, Novel. 77. 134.141. Procopius, in Anecdot. o. 11. 16. with theNotes Alemannus. Theophanes, p, 151, Cedrenus, p. 368. Zouaras, lib, 14. p.64.