OCR Output 330 WARS OF THE JEWS. -Book I. to discourse with Caesar, because he had already written a fullaccount to him of this whole matter. 6. Thus a period was put to Archelaus's stratagem, wherebyie delivered his son-in-law out of the dangers he was in : butwhen these reconciliations were over, they spent their time infeastings and agreeable entertainments. And when Archelauswas going away, Herod made him a present of seventy talents,with a golden throne set with precious stones, and some eunuchs,and a concubine who was called Pannychis. He also paid duehonours to every one of his friends according to their dignity.In like manne'r did all the king's kindred, by his command, makeglorious presents to Archelaus; and so he was conducted onhis way by Herod and his nobility as far as Antioch. CHAP. XXVI. How* Eurycles calumniated the sons of Mariamne : and bt,v>Euaratus of Cos's apology for them bad no effect. f 1. "^T"O W a little afterward there came into Judea a man thatJ.^1 was much superior to Archelaus's stratagems, who didnot onlyoverturnthatreconciliation that had ber.nsowiselymadewith Alexander, but proved the occasion of his ruin. He was aLacedemonian, and his name was Eurycles. He was so corrupta man, that out of the desire of getting money, he chose to liveunder a king, for Greece could not suffice his luxury. He pre­sented Herod with splendid gifts, as a bait which he laid in orderto compass his ends,and quickly receiving them back again mani­fold; yet did he esteembare gifts asnothing, unless he imbrued thekingdom in blood by his purchases. Accordingly, he imposedupon the king by flattering him, and by talking subtily to him,as also by the lying encomiums which he made upon him ; foras he soon perceived Herod's blind side, so he said and did everything that might please him, and thereby became one of his mostintimate friends ; for both the king and all that were about him,had a great regard for this+ Spartan, on account of his country.2. -Now as soon as this fellow perceived the rotten parts of thefamily, and what quarrels the brothers had one with another, and * This vile fellow, Eurycles the Lacedemonian, seems to have been the samewho is mentioned by Plutarch, as is years before a companion to Mark Antony,and as living with Herod ; whence he might easily insinuate himself into the ac­quaintance ef Hertd's sons, Antipater and Alexander, as Usher, Hudson, andSpanheim justly suppose. The reason why his being a Spartan rendered him ac­ceptable to the Jews, as we here see he was, is visible from the public records ofthe Jews and Spartans, owning those Spartans to be of kin to the Jews, and de»rived from their common ancestor Abraham, the first patriarch of' the Jewish na­tion. Anfiq. B. XII. ch. iv. sect. 10. B. XIII. ch. v. sect. 8. Vol. II. and I.B' XII. ch. vil.f See the preceding note.