OCR Output 136 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV". • emancipated from the inconvenient associates who sharedits power; but these measures probably contributed stillfurther to disturb the never sincere agreement of the rulingaristocracy with the merchant-class and the proletariate.Both were very well aware, that the senate granted all itsconcessions only from fear and with reluctance; permanentlyattached to the rule of the senate by considerations neitherof gratitude nor of interest, both were very ready to rendersimilar services to any other master who offered them moreor even as much, and had no objection, if an opportunityoccurred, to cheat or to thwart the senate. Thus the resto­ration continued to govern with the desires and opinionsof a legitimate aristocracy, and with the constitution andmeans of government of a tyrannis. Its rule not onlyrested on the same bases as that of Gracchus, but it wasequally and in fact still more deficient in strength; it wasstrong where in league with the populace it overthrewvaluable institutions, but it was utterly powerless where ithad to face the bands of the streets or the interests of themerchants. It sat on the vacated throne with an evil con­science and divided hopes, indignant at the institutions ofthe state which it ruled and yet incapable of even system­atically assailing them, vacillating in all its conduct exceptwhere its own material advantage prompted its decision, apicture of faithlessness towards its own as well as the oppo­site party, of inward inconsistency, of the most pitiful im­potence, of the meanest selfishness—an unsurpassed ideal ofmisrule.. he men of It could not be otherwise; the whole nation was in athe restora- state of intellectual and moral decline, but especially the,'on' upper classes. The aristocracy before the period of the Gracchi was truly not over-rich in talent, and the benchesof the senate were crowded by a pack of cowardly and disso­lute nobles; nevertheless there sat in it Scipio ^Emiliauus,Gaius Laelius, Quintus Metellus, Publius Crassus, PubliusScaevola and numerous other respectable and able men, andan observer favourably predisposed might be of opinion thatthe senate maintained a certain moderation and a certain mus, vi. 9, 13, Quintus Ca:pio is called patron of the senate; but on theone hand this does not prove enough, and on the other hand what is there nar-106. rated does not at all suit the consul of 648, so that there must be an erroreither in the name or in the foots reported.