OCR Output OF ROME. . 353 ct fenate had ever been fincerely difpoled to preventB 0 O KC' any injury being offered to them; and were not. __' j"lefs fo, now, to prevent the continuance of the Y.R. 3n."one, which had been done." On which the am- B'c. 4*1.bafladors declaring, that they would take the fenfe oftheir countrymen anew, before they formed any re-folution, they were difmified with exprefilons offriendfhip. The commonwealth being now withoutany curule magiftrate, the patricians affembled andcreated an interrex, and the interregnum was pro­longed for a great many days, by a contention whe­ther confuls or military tribunes mould be appointed.The interrex and the fenate warmly promoted theelection of confuls; the plebeian tribunes and thecommons, the election of military tribunes. Thepatricians at length prevailed, for the commons whohad no intention of conferring either the one officeor the other on any but patricians, defifted fromtheir fruitlefs oppofition: and befides, the leaders ofthe commons were better pleafed with an electionwhere they were not to appear as candidates, thanwith one where they would be pafied over as unwor­thy. The plebeian tribunes wifhed alfo to pafs as acompliment to the principal patricians, their declining , '.to prefs the difpute to a d«cifion. Titus QuintiusBarbatus, the interrex, elected confuls Lucius Papi-rius Mugilanus, and Lucius Sempronius Atratinus.In their confulate, the treaty with the Ardeans wasrenewed; and this ferves as a record to prove, thatthere were thofe confuls in that year, though theyare not to be found, either in the old annals, or inthe books of the magiftrates; I fuppofe that becaufein the beginning of the year, there were military tri­bunes, that therefore though thefe confuls were after­wards fubftituted in their room, yet the names of theconfuls were omitted, as if the others had continuedin office through the whole of the year. LiciniusMacer affirms, that they were found both in the Ar-dean treaty, and in the linen books in the temple ofVOL. i. A A Moneta.