OCR Output Chap. XVII. Wars of the Jews. 299 ted this misfortune for a while, he put off the main part of hismourning, and made haste to march against his enemies; andwhen he had performed a march that was above his strength,end was gone as far as Libanus, he got him eight hundred menof those that lived near to that mountain, as his assistants, andjoined with them one Roman legion, with which, before it wasday, he made an irruption into Galilee, and met his enemies, anddrove them back to the place which they had left. He alsomade an immediate and continual attack upon the fortress. Yetwas he forced by a most terrible storm to pitch his camp in theneighbouring villages, before he could take it: but when, aftera few days time, the second legion, that came from Antony*joined themselves to him, the enemy were affrighted at his-power, and left their fortifications in the night time. 4. After this he marched through Jericho, as making whathaste he could to be avenged on his brother's murderers: wherehappened to him a providential sign, out of which, when he hadunexpectedly escaped, he had the reputation of being very dearto God, for that evening there feasted with him many of theprincipal men, and after that feast was over, and all the guestswere gone out, the house fell down immediately. And as hejudged this to be a common signal of what dangers he should un­dergo, and how he shouldescape them in the war that he was go­ing about, he, in the morning, set forward with his army, whenabout six thousand of his enemies came running down from themountains, and began to fight with those in his forefront; yetdurst they not be so very bold as to engage the Romans hand tohand, but threw stones and darts at them at a distance; by whichmeans they wounded a considerable number ; in which actionHerod's own side was wounded with a dart. 5. Now as Antigonus had a mind to appear to exceed Herod,not only in the courage, but in the number of his men, he sentPappus, one of his companions, with an army against Samaria,whose fortune it was to oppose Macheras; but Herod over-ranthe enemies country, and demolished five little cities, and des­troyed two thousand men that were in them, and burned theirhouses, and then returned to his camp; but his head quarterswere at the village called Carta. 5. Now a great multitude of Jews resorted to him every day,both out of Jericho, and the other parts of the country. Somewere moved so to do out of their hatred to Antigonus, and someout of regard to the glorious actions Herod had done; but othersWere led on by an unreasonable desire of change; so he fell uponthem immediately. As for Pappus and his party, they were notterrified either at their number, or at their ieal, but marched outPp2 with