OCR Output 168 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. 125. consul in 629. He was the first to enter on the career ofTransalpine conquest. Among the many subdivisions ofthe Celtic nation at this period, the canton of the Biturigeshad lost its real hegemony and retained merely an hono­rary presidency; and the actually leading canton in theregion from the Pyrenees to the Rhine and from the Medi-Tl.e terranean to the Western Ocean was that of the Arverni ;* Arverni. so that the statement seems not quite an exaggeration, thatit could bring into the field as many as 180,000 men. Withthem the Haedui (about Autun) carried on an unequalrivalry for the hegemony; while in north-eastern Gaul thekings of the Suessiones (about Soissons) united undertheir protectorate the league of the Belgic tribes extendingover to Britain. Greek travellers of that period had muchto tell of the magnificent state of Luerius, king of theArvernians—how, surrounded by his brilliant train of clans­men, his huntsmen with their pack of hounds in leash andhis band of wandering minstrels, he travelled in a silver-mounted chariot through the towns of his kingdom, scatter­ing the gold with a full hand among the multitude, andgladdening above all the heart of the minstrel with theglittering shower. The descriptions of the open table whichhe kept in an enclosure of 1500 double paces square, andto which every one who came in the way was invited,vividly remind us of the marriage-table of Camachos. Infact, the numerous Arvernian gold coins of this period stillextant show that the canton of the Arvernians had attainedto extraordinary wealth and a comparatively high standardof civilization.War with The attack of Flaccus, however, was in the first instancethe Alio- directed not against the Arverni, hut against the smallerbroges and tribes in the district between the Alps and the Rhone,nerm' where the original Ligurian inhabitants had become mixedwith subsequent arrivals of Celtic bands, and there hadarisen a Celto-Ligurian population resembling in this re-125. 124. spect the Celtiberians. He fought (629, 630) with successagainst the Salyes or Salluvii in the region of Aix and in thevalley of the Durance, and against their northern neighboursthe Vocontii (in the departments of Vaucluse and Drome);123. 122. and so did his successor Gaius Sextius Calvinus (631, 632")against the Allobroges, a powerful Celtic clan in the rich * In Auvergne. Their capital, Nemetum or Nemossus, lay not far fromClermont.