OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 263 tes and the Tigris, the dominion of Syria, and the conquest of Jerusalam, the threadof his life and of the public felicity was broken by a singular accident. He huntedthe wild boar in the valley of Anazarbus, and had fixed his javelin in the bodyof the furious animal: but, in the struggle, a poisoned arrow dropped from hisquiver, and a slight wound in his hand, which produced a mortification, was fatalto the best and greatest of the Comnenian princes. A premature death had swept away the two eldest sons of John the Handsome;of the two survivors, Isaac and Manuel, his judgment or affection preferred theyounger; and the choice of the dying prince was ratified by the soldiers who hadapplauded the valour of the favourite in his Turkish war. The faithful Axuchhastened to the capital, secured the person of Isaac in honourable confinement,and purchased with a gift of two hundred pounds of silver, the leading ecclesiasticsof St. Sophia, who possessed a decisive voice in the consecration of an emperor.With his veteran and affectionate troops, Manuel soon visited Constantinople; hisbrother acquiesced in the title of Sebastocrator; his subjects admired the loftystature and martial graces of their new sovereign, and listened with credulity tothe flattering promise, that he blended the wisdom of age with the activity andvigour of youth. By the experience of his government, they were taught, that heemulated the spirit, and shared the talents of his father, whose social virtues wereburied in the grave. A reign of thirty-seven years is filled by a perpetual thoughvarious warfare against the Turks, the Christians, and the hordes of the wilder­ness beyond the Danube. The arms of Manuel were exercised on mount Taurus,in the plains of Hungary, on the coast of Italy and Egypt, and on the seas of Sicilyand Greece: the influence of his negotiations extended from Jerusalem to Romeand Russia; and the Byzantine monarchy, for awhile, became an object of respector terror to the powers of Asia and Europe. Educated in the silk and purple ofthe east, Manual possessed the iron temper of a soldier, which cannot easily beparalleled, except in the lives of Richard I. of England, and of Charles XII. of Swe­den. Such was the strength and exercise in arms, that Raymond, surnamed theHercules of Antioch, was incapable of wielding the lance and buckler of the Greekemperor. In a famous tournament, he entered the lists on a fiery courser, andoverturned in his first career two of the stoutest of the Italian knights. The firstin the charge, the last in the retreat, his friends and his enemies alike trembled,the former for his safety, and the latter for their own. After posting an ambuscadein a wood, he rode forth in quest of some perilous adventure, accompanied only byhis brother and the faithful Axuch, who refused to desert their sovereign. Eigh­teen horsemen, after a short combat, fled before them: but the numbers of theenemy increased; the march of the re-enforcement was tardy and fearful, andManuel, without receiving a wound, cut his way through a squadron of the Turks.In a battle against the Hungarians, impatient of the slowness of his troops, hesnatched a standard from the head of the column, and was the first, almost alone,who passed a bridge that separated him from the enemy. In the same country,after transporting his army beyond the Save, he sent back the boats, with an order,under pain of death, to their commander, that he should leave him to conquer ordie on that hostile land. In the siege of Corfu, towing after him a captive galley,the emperor stood aloft on the poop, opposing against the volley of darts and stones,,a large buckler and a flowing sail; nor could he have escaped inevitable death, hadnot the Sicilian admiral enjoined his archers to respect the person of a hero. Inone day, he is said to have slain above forty of the barbarians with his own hand; hereturned to the camp, dragging along four Turkish prisoners, whom he had tied tothe rings of his saddle: he was ever the foremost to provoke or accept a singlecombat; and the gigantic champions, who encountered his arm, were transpiercedby the lance, or cut asunder by the sword of the invincible Manuel. The story ofhis exploits, which appear as a model or a copy of the romances of chivalry, mayinduce a reasonable suspicion of the veracity of the Greeks: I will not, to vindicatetheir credit, endanger my own; yet I may observe, that in the long series of theirannals, Manuel is the only prince who has been the subject of similar exaggeration.With the valour of a soldier, he did not unite the skill or prudence of a general:his victories were not productive of any permanent or useful conquest; and hisTurkish laurels were blasted in his last unfortunate campaign, in which he lost hisarmies in the mountains of Pisidia, and owed his deliverance to the generosity ofthe sultan. But the most singular feature in the character of Manuel, is the con­trast of labour and sloth, of hardiness and effeminacy. In war he seemed igno­rant of peace; in peace he appeared incapable of war. In the field he slept in thesun or in the snow, tired in the longest marches the strength of his men and horses;,