OCR Output 106 LABICU.M. LACETANL occupied by the village of La Colonna; a height alittle in advance of the Tusculan hills, and com­manding the adjoining portion of the ]ilain. It isabout a mile from the 15th milestone on the Romanroad, where, aa we have seen, the suburb Ad Quin­tanas afterwards grew up, and is certainly the onlyposition that accords with Strata's descritition. Noruins arc visible; but the site is one well calculatedfor an ancient city, of small magnitude, and thediscovery of the inscriptions already noticed in it*immediate neighbourhood may be considered con­clusive of the point. The modem village of IaiColonna dates only from the 11th century. (Holsten.Not. ati Clue. p. 194; Fabrett. de Aquaedui't.p. 182; Nibby, Dintorni di Roma, vol. ii. pp. 157—164.) Ficoroni, in liis elaborate work (Memoriedelta Prima e Seconda Ciltii di Labien, 4lo. Koma,1745), has laboured to prove, but certainly withoutsuccess, that I.sbioum was situated on the ColU deiU'uidri, near Lwjnano, about 5 miles beyond LaColonna. The remains there discovered and de­scribed by him render it probable lltat lAtgnano wasan ancient site, probably that of Bola [Bola] ; butthe distance from Rome excludes the suppositionthat it was that of Labicum. The Via Labicana, which issued from the PortaEsqoilina at Rome together with the Via l'rao-nestina, but separated from tho latter immediatelyaftenvards, held a course nearly parallel with it asfar as the station Ad Quintanas; from whence itturned round the foot of the Alban hills, and fellinto the Via Latina at the Btalion Ad I'ictas, wherethe latter road had just descended from Mt. Algidus.(Strab. T. p. 237; Itin. Ant. pp. 304, 3U5.) It isstrange that the Itinerary gives the name of La-vicana to the continuation of the road after theirjunction, though the Via Latina was so much themore important of the two. The course of theancient Via Labicana may be readily traced fromthe gates of Koine by the Torre Rgnatara, CentoCeile, Torre Xuova, and the Osteriti di Fintxchioto the Otttria delta Colonna, at the foot of the hillof that name. This Osteria is 16 miles from Romeand a mile beyond the ancient station Ad Quintanas.From thence the road proceeded to San Ce*arv>, andsoon after, quitting the line of the modern rojid to\'ahvmtone, struck off direct to join the Via La-tina: but the exact site of the station Ad l'iclashas not been determined. (Westphal, Hum. Kam-jiayir, pp. 78—80; Cell's Tojiogr. of Rome,p. 279.) On the left of the Via Labicana, about thirteenmiles anil a half from Rome, is a small crater-formedlake, which has often been considered as the ancientLacus Regillus: but the similar bxsin of the Iahjodi Cornuftlle, near Tusculuiu, apjK'ars to have atatter claim to that celebrated name. [Kegh.lcsLacis] The course of the Via Labicana in the immediateneighbourhood of Rome was bordered, like the otherhighways that issued from the city, with numeroussepulchres, many of them on a large scale, and ofmassive construction. Of these, the one now knowna* the Torre PignaUira, about ttiree miles fromthe Porta Maggi'jre, is represented by very ancienttradition, but with no other authority, aa the mau-■oleum of Helena, the mother of Constantine theGreat (Nibby, vol. iii. p. 243.) We learn, also,that the family tomb of the emperor Didius Juliannawas situated on the same road, at the distance of5 miles from Rome. (Spartian. Did. Jul. 8.) LABISCO. [Lavisco.] LABISCTM. [Lavisco.] LA'BOTAS (AoSotoi), a small river of ihe pl*inof Antioch. (Strab. xvi. p. 751.) It runs from thenorth, parallel to the Ahckl'thi's,and,mixing withits waters and those of the Oenojiaras coming fromthe east, in a small lake, they flow off in one streamand join the Orontes a little above Antioch. It Uthe western of the two rivers shown in map, VoL Lp. 115, and Pagrae (Ragraji) is situated on itawestern bank near ita mouth. [G. W.] LAURANDA (ri AagpavSa or \ASpavria), avillage in the west of Caria, about 60 stadia fromthe town of Mylasa, to which the village taritnce>l.and with which it was connected by a road rallolthe sacred. I*abranda was situated in the mountain*,and was celebrated for its sanctuary of Zeus Si ratios,to which processions went along the sacred roadfrom Mylasa. Herodotus describes (v. 119) tbasanctuary as an extensive grove of plane trees, withinwhich a body of Carians, in their war against tbaPersians, retreated for safety. Strabo (xiv. p. 659)speaks of an ancient temple with a tuayov of Zen*Stratios, who was also surnamed " Labrandenua **- tar"Labrandeus." Aelian (//. A. xii. 30), who atatcathat the temple of Labranda was 70 stadia fromMylasa, relates that a spring of clear water, withiathe sanctuary, contained fishes, with golden neck­laces and rings. Chandler (Antiq. of Ionia, pt. 1.c. 4, and Aria Minor, c. 58) was the first whostated his belief, that the ruins at lakti, south ofKiseljik, consisting of a theatre and a ruined tempi*of the Ionian order, of which 16 colnmns, with theentablature, were then still standing, were thot* ofancient I*abranda and of the temp'e of Zeus Stratios.But Choiseul Gouftier, Barbie* du Bocage. aod I^eake{Atia Mitutr, p. 2.32), agree in thinking that theseruins belong to F.uromus rather than Labranda.Their view is supported by the fact that the rainsof the temple have nothing very ancient al»out thrm,but rather show that they belong to a structure ofthe Roman period. The remains of Labranda mustbe looked fur in the hills to the north-east of Mylasa.Sir C. Fellows (Journal, p. 261), apparently notknowing what had been done by his predecessor*,unhesitatingly speaks of the ruins at lakli aa tboa*of l.i branda, and gives an engraving of the remainsof the temple under the name of the "Temple atLabranda." [L. Sj LABRONIS PORTfS. [LincmitTi ] LABIS or LABUTAS (tiiMot or Aafoifroi),a mountain range in the N. of Parthia, mentionedby Polybius (x. 29). It seems to have a part ofthe greater range of M. Coronus, and is probablyrepresented now by the Sobad-Koh, a part of theElbttrz mountains. C^"*J LACANITIS (AaKavrrir), the name of a districtin Cilicia Proper, above Tarsus, between the riversCydnna and Sams, and containing the town ofIrenopolis. (Ptol. v. 8. § 6.) [L. S-] LACCU'RIS. [Ouktam.J LACEA. [Lt'BiTAKiA.l LACEDAKMUN (Aa»«4ol/ia.», Strph. B. a. r.;Eustath. ad. II. ii. 582), a town in the interior ofCyprus. (Engel, Kgprot, vol. i. p. 158.) [E. B. J.] LACEDAEMON, LACLDAEMO'NIL [LAO-MA.] LACKREIA. [Dotii.s CAMria.] LAC ETA'S I (AaxtTaviii), on* of tbt small peoples of Hispania Tarraconensis, wbo occnjiicd th*valleys at the S. foot of the Pyrenees, (f.4