OCR Output Ixxxvi A Survey of the History. " and reap all the honour and advantage of it, since all the" credit of it will be their own. Lacedamonians may be" obliged, but will not be compelled. At length, they propose" their expedient, not explicitly, but with a shrewd insinuation," that would the Athenians strike up a bargain with them," they might jointly lord it over Greece for the future," beyond controul." Had Pericles been now alive, we may easily guess, howreadily he would have laid hold on this opportunity to enda burthensome and distressful war, which on the side ofAthens had at first been necessitated and merely defensive.But success had elevated Athens quite too high ; and no realfriend to the State had at present so much influence as Cleon,that loud and boisterous demagogue. Hence it comes, thatsuch terms are insisted upon as the Lacedaemonians cannotin honour accept. The truce expires ; and all the attentionof Greece is fixed on the important scene of contention atPylus. The author here interposeth an account of what was nowdoing in Sicily, and then returns to Pylus. The Spartans inthe isle seem as far off a surrender as ever. The people ofAthens murmur at the slowness of their troops, and begin tothink that after all they shall not carry the point. Cleonamuses them with lies, and exasperates them by slanders :In short, though quite undesigning it, he bullies himself intothe command; and, at the head of a reinforcement, joinsDemosthenes at Pylus. The author describes the event withso much state and dignity, that he raises it into anotherThermopylae. There three hundred Spartans stopped for along time the whole numerous army of Xerxes, and perishedin the sen-ice. About the same number of them strugglehere as long as they can against the troops of Athens ; but,to the disappointment of all Greece, they at last surrenderprisoners of war, and are carried, nay are carried by Cleon,in triumph to Athens. The territories of Corinth are invaded soon after by the