OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123 crent prerogative of the Roman kings was transferred, in their respective offices,to the consuls and dictators, the censors and pretors; and a similar right was as­sumed by the tribunes of the people, the ediles and proconsuls. At Rome, and inthe provinces, the duties of the subject, and the intentions of the governor, wereproclaimed; and the civil jurisprudence was reformed by the annual edicts of thesupreme judge, the pretor of the city. As soon as he ascended his tribunal, he an­nounced by the voice of the crier, and afterwards inscribed on a white wall, therules which he proposed to follow in the decision of doubtful cases, and the reliefwhich his equity would afford from the precise rigour of ancient statutes. A prin­ciple of discretion more congenial to monarchy was introduced into the republic:the art of respecting the name, and eluding the efficacy, of the laws, was improvedby successive pretors; subtleties and fictions were invented to defeat the plainestmeaning of the decemvirs, and where the end was salutary, the means were fre-frequently absurd. The secret or probable wish of the dead was suffered to pre­vail over the order of succession and the forms of testaments; and the claimant,who was excluded from the character of heir, accepted with equal pleasure froman indulgent pretor, the possession of the goods of his late kinsman and benefactor.In the redress of private wrongs, compensations and fines were substituted to theobsolete rigour of the twelve tables: time and space were annihilated by fancifulsuppositions; and the plea of youth, or fraud, or violence, annulled the obligation,or excused the performance, of an inconvenient contract. A jurisdiction thus vagueand arbitrary was exposed to the most dangerous abuse; the substance, as well asthe form, of justice, were often sacrificed to the prejudices of virtue, the bias oflaudable affection, and the grosser seductions of interest or resentment. But theerrors or vices of each pretor expired with his annual office; such maxims aloneas had been approved by reason and practice were copied by succeeding judges;the rule of proceeding was defined by the solution of new cases; and the temptationsof injustice were removed by the Cornelian law, which compelled the pretor of theyear to adhere to the letter and spirit of his first proclamation. (1) It was re­served for the curiosity and learning of Hadrian, to accomplish the design whichhe had conceived by the genius of Caesar; and the pretorship of Salvius Julian, aneminent lawyer, was immortalized by the composition of the perpetual edict.This well-digested code was ratified by the emperor and the senate; the long di­vorce of law and equity was at length reconciled; and, instead of the twelve ta­bles, the perpetual edict was fixed as the invariable standard of civil jurispru­dence. ( 2) From Augustus to Trajan, the modern Caisars were content to promulgate theiredicts in the various characters of a Roman magistrate; and, in the decrees of thesenate, the efiistles and orations of the prince were respectfully inserted. Hadri-an(3) appears to have been the first who assumed, without disguise, the plenitudeof legislative power. And this innovation, so agreeable to his active mind, wascountenanced by the patience of the times, and his long absence from the seat ofgovernment. The same policy was embraced by succeeding monarchs, and, ac­cording to the harsh metaphor of Tertullian, " the gloomy and intricate forest ofancient laws was cleared away by the axe of royal mandates and constitutions. "(4)During four centuries, from Hadrian to Justinian, the public and private jurispru­dence-was moulded by the will of the sovereign; and few institutions, either humanor divine, were permitted to stand on their former basis. The origin of imperiallegislation was concealed by the darkness of ages and the terrors of armed des­potism; and a double fiction was propagated by the servilitv, or perhaps the igno­rance, of the civilians who basked in the sunshine of the Roman and Byzantinecourts. 1. To the prayer of the ancient C&sars, the people or the senate had stitulei flib. i. tit. ii. No. 7.) and more loosely explained in the Greek paraphrase of Theophilos (p. 33—38.edit. Reitz.,) who drops the important word honorarium. (1) Dion P""'—''"™ ■ Klv »t™ n inn > fi«M n»metiihowever, isvicus Vives.▼ius (ad SuetL— Cimbricum, detects the forgery (Movie's Works, vol. i. p. 303.) (2) The history of edicts is compmed.and the text ofthe perpetual edict is restored by the master-band ofHeineccius (Opp. torn. vii. P. 2. p. 1—S84.J in whose researches I might safely acquiesce. In the Academy ofInscriptions, M. Bouchaud has given a series of memoirs to this interfiling; subject of law and literature. (3) His laws are the first in the Code. See Dodwell (Prselect. Camden, p. 319—340.,) who wanders from thesubjeetin confused reading and feeble paradox. (4) Totam illam veterem et sqnallentem sylvam leguni novis principalium retcriptnrmn et edictorum stcu-ribus ruscatis et carditis (Apologet. c. W. p. 50. edit. Havercamp.) He proceeds to praise the recent firmnessof Severus. who repealed the useless or pernicious laws, without any regard (o their age or authority.