OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. ages, from the establishment of equal freedom to the '' end of the Punic wars, the city was never disturbed by sedition, and rarely polluted with atrocious crimes.The failure of penal laws was more sensibly felt whenevery vice was inflamed by faction at home and do­minion abroad. In the time of Cicero, each privatecitizen enjoyed the privilege of anarchy; each mi­nister of the republic was exalted to the temptationsof regal power, and their virtues are entitled to thewarmest praise as the spontaneous fruits of nature orphilosophy. After a triennial indulgence of lust, ra­pine, and cruelty, Verres, the tyrant of Sicily, couldonly be sued for the pecuniary restitution of threehundred thousand pounds sterling; and such was thetemper of the laws, the judges, and perhaps the ac­cuser himself, that on refunding a thirteenth part ofhis plunder, Verres could retire to an easy and lux­urious exile *.Revival of The grst imperfect attempt to restore the propor- capital pu-. r ■ i • 1 ill nishments. tion of crimes and punishments, was made by thedictator Sylla, who, in the midst of his sanguinarytriumph, aspired to restrain the licence, rather thanto oppress the liberty, of the Romans. He gloriedin the arbitrary proscription of four thousand sevenhundred citizens-f. But in the character of a legis­lator, he respected the prejudices of the times; andinstead of pronouncing a sentence of death againstthe robber or assassin, the general who betrayed anarmy, or the magistrate who ruined a province, Syllawas content to aggravate the pecuniary damages bythe penalty of exile, or, in more constitutional lan­guage, by the interdiction of fire and water. TheCornelian, and afterwards the Pompeian and Julian • Verres lived near thirty years after his trial, till the second triumvirate, whenhe was proscribed by the taste of Mark-Antony for the sake of his Corinthianplate (Plin. Hist. Natur. xxxiv. 3). t Such is the number assigned by Valerius Maximus. Florus distinguishes2000 senators and knights, Appian more accurately computes 40 victims of thesenatorian rank, and HiOO of the equestrian census or order.