OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. exhausted every refinement of cruelty, without being able to subduehis patience, or to alter the steady and insulting smile which in hisdying agonies he still preserved in his countenance. The Christians,though they confessed that his conduct had not been strictly con­formable to the laws of prudence, admired the divine fervour of hiszeal; and the excess^ commendations which they lavished on thememory of their hero and martyr, contributed to fix a deep im-prefllon of terror and hatred in the mind of Diocletian His fears were soon alarmed by the view of a danger from which Fire of the p> '0 lace of Nico- he very narrowly escaped. Within fifteen days the palace of Nico- media impu:. t. . ed to the media, and even the bedchamber of Diocletian, were twice in flames 5 Christians,and though both times they were extinguished without any materialdamage, the singular repetition of the fire was justly considered asan evident proof that it had not been the effect of chance or ne­gligence, The suspicion naturally fell on the Christians; and itwas suggested, with some degree of probability, that those despe­rate fanatics, provoked by their present sufferings, and apprehensiveof impending calamities, had entered into a conspiracy with theirfaithful brethren, the eunuchs of the palace, against the lives oftwo emperors, whom they detested as the irreconcilable enemies ofthe church of God. Jealousy and resentment prevailed in everybreast, but especially in that of Diocletian. A great number ofpersons, distinguished either by the offices which they had silled,or by the favour which they had enjoyed, were thrown into prison.Every mode of torture was put in practice, and the court, as wellas city, was polluted with many bloody executions M\ But as itwas found impossible to extort any discovery of this mysterioustransaction, it seems incumbent on us either to presume the inno­cence or to admire the resolution of the sufferers. A few days after­wards Galerius hastily withdrew himself from Nicomedia, declaring,that if he delayed his departure from that devoted palace, he shouldfall a sacrifice to the rage of the Christians. The ecclesiastical his- 4 D 3 torians,