OCR Output . II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 19" out of the Nisaean dock ; but instead of making directly forthe Piraeus, as they at first intended, dismayed with thedanger of the attempt, and, as it is said, forced by a con­trary wind to steer another course, they went over to thatpromontory of Salamis which faceth Megara. Upon thispromontory was a fort, and three ships were stationed belowto prevent all importation and exportation at Megara. Thisfort they assaulted, and carried the three ships, thoughempty, away with them. Other parts of Salamis they plun­dered, as the inhabitants never dreamed of this invasion. The lights*, that signify the approach of enemies, werehowever held up and waved towards Athens, which causedas great a consternation there as was known during all theseries of the war. Those in the city imagined the enemyto be already within the Piraeus. Those in the Piraeus con­cluded the city of the Salamanians to be taken, and thatthe enemy was only not within their port, which indeed theymight easily have been, had they not been hindered by theirown fears and a contrary wind. At break of day, the Athe­nians ran down in general concourse to the Piraeus. Theygot their ships afloat, and leaping on board with the utmostexpedition and uncommon tumult, sailed away for Salamis,but left what land-forces they had to guard the Piraeus.When the Peloponnesians had notice of the approach ofthis succour, having now over-run great part of Salamis,and got many prisoners and a large booty, beside the threeships stationed at Budorus, they made the best of their wayback to Nisaea. They were afraid of trusting too much totheir ships, which having been long laid up were becomeleaky. After thus getting back to Megara, they returned • These (according to the Scholiast) were lighted torches, which personson the walls reared aloft in the air, to notify to neighbouring and confederateplaces that they discerned the approach of enemies, in order to put then)on their guard. The same thing was also done at the approach of friends,to notify what succour was at hand. In the latter case, they held the lightssteady and unmoved; in the former they waved them to and fro, as an in.,dicalion of fear. Vol. I. 2 q