OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APIOK. - 365 escaped my knowledge; for what happened in the Romancamp I saw and wrote down carefully; and what informationthe deserters brought [out of the city,] I was the only manthat understood them. Afterward I got leisure at Rome;and when all my materials were prepared for that work, Imade use of some persons to assist me in learning the Greektongue, and by these means I composed the history of thosetransactions. And I was so well assured of the truth of whatI related, that I first of all appealed to those that had thesupreme command in that war, Vespasian and Titus, as wit­nesses for me; for to them I presented those books first ofall, and after them to many of the Romans who had been inthe war. I also sold them to many of our own men who un­derstood the Greek philosophy; among whom were JuliusArchelaus; Herod [king of Chaleis,] a person of great gra­vity, and king Agrippa himself, a person that deserved thegreatest admiration. Now all these men bore their testimonyto me, that I had the strictest regard to truth ; who yet wouldnot have dissembled the matter, nor been silent, if I, out ofignorance, or out of favor to any side, either had given falsecolors to actions or omitted any of them. 10. There have been, indeed, some bad men who have at­tempted to calumniate my history, and took it to be a kindof scholastic performance for the exercise of young men. Astrange sort of accusation and calumny this ! since every onethat undertakes to deliver the history of actions truly, oughtto know them accurately himself in the first place, as eitherhaving been concerned in them himself, or been informed ofthem by such as knew them. Now, both these methods ofknowledge I may very properly pretend to in the compositionof both my works; for, as I said, I have translated the Anti­quities out of our sacred books, which I easily could do, sinceI was a priest by my birth, and have studied that philosophywhich is contained in those writings; and for the History ofthe War, I wrote it as having been an actor myself in manyof its transactions, an eye-witness in the greatest part of therest, and was not unacquainted with any thing whatsoeverthat was either said or done in it. How impudent, then, must 31*