OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. The epistle of Belisarius to the emperor announced his victory, his danger, andhis resolution. " According to your commands, we have entered the dominions ofthe Goths, and reduced to your obedience, Sicily, Campania, and the city of Rome:but the loss of these conquests will be more disgraceful than their acquisition wasglorious. Hitherto we have successfully fought against the multitude of the bar­barians, but the multitudes may finally prevail. Victory is the gift of Providence, •but the reputation of kings and generals depends on the success or the failure oftheir designs. Permit me to speak with freedom; if you wish that we should live,send us subsistence; if you desire that we should conquer, send us arms, horses,and men. The Romans have received us as friends and deliverers; but in our pre­sent distress, they will be either betrayed by their confidence, or we shall be op­pressed by their treachery and hatred. For myself, my life is consecrated to yourservice; it is yours to reflect, whether my death in this situation will contribute tothe glory and prosperity of your reign." Perhaps that reign would have beenequally prosperous,- if the peaceful master of the east had abstained from the con­quest of Africa and Italy; but as Justinian was ambitious of fame, he made someefforts, they were feeble and languid, to support and rescue his victorious general.A re-enforcement of sixteen hundred Sclavonians and Huns was led by Martin andValerian; and as they had reposed during the winter season in the harbours ofGreece, the strength of the men and horses was not impaired by the fatigues of asea-voyage; and they distinguished their valour in the first sally against the besie­gers. About the time of the summer solstice, Euthalius landed at Terracina withlarge sums of money for the payment of the troops; he cautiously proceeded alongthe^Appian way, and this convoy entered Rome through the gateCapena,(l) whileBelisarius, on the other side; diverted the attention of the Goths by a vigorous andsuccessful skirmish. These seasonable aids, the use and reputation of which weredexterously managed by the Roman general, revived the courage, or at least thehopes, of the soldiers and people. The historian Procopius was despatched withan important commission to collect the troops and provisions which Campaniacould furnish, or Constantinople had sent; and the secretary of Belisarius was soonfollowed by Antonina herself, (2) who boldly traversed the posts of the enemy, andreturned with the oriental succours to the relief of her husband and the besiegedcity. A fleet of three thousand Isaurians cast anchor in the bay of Naples, andafterward at Ostia. Above two thousand horse, of whom a part were Thracians,landed at Tarentum; and, after the junction of five hundred soldiers of Campania,and a train of wagons laden with wine and flour, they directed their march on theAppian way, from Capua to the neighbourhood of Rome. The forces that ar­rived by land and sea were united at the mouth of the Tiber. Antonina convened acouncil of war: it was resolved to surmount, with sails and oars, the adverse streamof the river: and the Goths were apprehensive of disturbing, by any rash hostili­ties, the negotiation to which Belisarius had craftily listened. They credulouslybelieved, that they saw no more than the vanguard of a fleet and army, which al­ready covered the Ionian sea and the plains of Campania; and the illusion wassupported by the haughty language of the Roman general, when he gave audienceto the ambassadors of Vitiges. After a specious discourse to vindicate the justiceof his cause, they declared that, for the sake of peace, they were disposed to re­nounce the possession of Sicily. " The emperor is not less generous, replied his.lieutenant with a disdainful smile: " in return for a gift which you no longer pos­sess, he presents you with an ancient province of the empire—he resigns to the'Goths the sovereignty of the British island." Belisarius rejected with equal firm­ness and contempt the offer of a tribute; but he allowed the Gothic ambassadors toseek their fate from the mouth of Justinian himself; and consented, with seemingreluctance, to a truce of three months, from the winter solstice to the equinox ofspring. Prudence might not safely trust either the oaths or hostages of the bar­barians, but the conscious superiority of the Roman chief was expressed in thedistribution of his troops. As soon as fear or hunger compelled the Goths to eva­cuate Alba, Porto, and Centumcella:, their place was instantly supplied; the gar-risons*of Narni, Spoleto, and Perusia, were re-enforced, and the seven camps ofthe besiegers were gradually encompassed with the calamities of a siege. The (1) The old Capena was removed by Aurelian to, or near, the modern gate of St. Sebastian (see Nolli's plan.)That memorable spot hat been consecrated by the Egerian grove, the memory of Numa, triumphal arches, thesepulchres of the Scipios, Metelli, &c. (S) The expression of Proeopius has an invidious cait—tvxw u tcj ser^ou; rw c$nri trvp£nT:nc.vw tty.ftZmi-j(Goth. lib. U. c, 40 Yet he is speaking of a woraan.