OCR Output A!T 229 1089.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. it to heart, to be deprived of a man that wasof his kindred, and had indeed given him thekingdom, and Abner's death very much trou­bled him. Nor did he himself survive anylong time; but was treacherously set uponby the sons of Rimmon, Baanah and Rechab;and was slain by them. For these being ofa family of the Benjamites, and of the firstrank among them, thought that if they shouldslay Ishbosheth, they should obtain largepresents from David, and be made com­manders by him, or at least should have someother trust committed to them. So when theyonce found him asleep, at noon, in an upperapartment, when none of his guards werethere; and when the woman that kept thedoor was not watching, but was fallen asleepalso; partly on account of the labour she hadundergone, and partly on account of the heatof the day; these men went into the room inwhich Ishbosheth, Saul's son, lay asleep, andslew him;* they also cut off his head, andtook their journey all that night, and the nextday, as supposing themselves fleeing fromthose that they had injured, to one that wouldaccept of this action as a favour, and wouldafford thein security. So they came to He­bron, and shewed David the head of Ishbo­sheth, and presented themselves to him, ashis well-wishers, and such as had killed onethat was his enemy, and antagonist. YetDavid did not approve of what they haddone, as they expected; but said to them,•'Vile wretches! you shall immediately re­ceive the punishment you deserve. Did notyou know what vengeance I executed on himthat murdered Saul,t and brought me hiscrown of gold; and this while he who perpe­trated that action did it as a favour to him,that he might not be caught by his enemies?or do you imagine that I am altered in mydisposition, and suppose that I am not the same man I then was? but am pleased withmen that are wicked doers? and esteem yourvile actions, when you are become murderersof your master, as grateful to me, when youhave slain a righteous man upon his bed, whonever did evil to any body; and treated youwith great good will and respect; whereforeyou shall suffer the punishment due on hisaccount, and the vengeance I ought to inflictupon you for killing Ishbosheth, and for sup­posing that I should take his death kindly atyour hands; for you could not lay a greaterblot on my honour than the making such asupposal." When David had said this, hetormented them with all sorts of torments,and then put them to death; and he bestowedall accustomed rites on the burial of thehead of Ishbosheth, and laid it in the graveof Abner. J When these things were brought to thisconclusion, all the principal men of the He­brews came to David, to Hebron, with theheads of thousands, and other rulers, and de­livered themselves up to him; putting him inmind of the good will they had borne to himin Saul's life-time; and the respect they thenhad not ceased to pay him, when he was cap­tain of a thousand; as also that he waschosen of God by Samuel the prophet,|| heand his sons; declaring besides how God had fiven him power to save the land of thelebrews, and to overcome the Philistines.Whereupon he received kindly their alacrityon his account; and exhorted them to con­tinue in it, for that they should have no reasonto repent of being thus disposed to him.So when he had feasted them, and treatedthem kindly, he sent them out to bring all thepeople to him. Upon which there came tohim about six thousand and eight hundredarmed men of the tribe of Judah; who bareshields and spears of their weapons; for these * 2 Sam. iv. 7. t It may seem a little strange, that these two ruffianswere not discouraged by David's punishing the Amalekitefor killing of Saul, and by the detestation he had publiclyshewn of Joab's baseness in murdering Abner: but theformer of these cases, they might think, was not parallelto theirs; because Saul was anointed king by God's imme­diate direction, whereas Ishbosheth, having never hadsuch sacred unction, was no more than an usurper; andas for the latter, they might think, that David's conduct,in relation to Abner's death, proceeded from art and policy,rather than any serious dislike to the tiling itself; and in this opinion, they might the rather be confirmed, whenthey saw Joab, instead of being punished, continuing inthe very same post and power that he had before. PooVsAnnotations. B. t 2 Sam. iv. 12. I This may be a true observation of Josephus's; thatSamuel, by command from God, entailed the crown onDavid and his posterity; for no farther did that entailever reach. Solomon himself having never had any pro­mise made him that his posterity should always have theright to it. Yy2