OCR Output 612 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA, the Phoenicians off Salamis in Cyprus, it. c. 449,when 100 of their .ships were taken, many sunk,and the remnant pursued to their own harbuurs.(Ib. c. 112.) A cessation of hostilities now ensuedbetween the Greeks and Persians. The Phoeniciannavy continued to be employed by the latter, butwas no longer exposed to the attacks of the Athe­nians. In b. c. 411 the Phoenicians pre) are! aflwt of 147 ve-scls, to a-sMst the Spartans againstAthens; but after advancing as tar as Aspeudus inPamphjrlia it was suddenly recalled, either becausethe demonstration was a mere rfwe on the part ofTis.saphernes, or that the Phoenicians were obligedto defend their own coast, now threatened by theEgyptians. (Thucyd. viii. 87, 108; Diod. xiii.38, 4fi.) They next appear as the auxiliaries ofthe Athenians against the Spartans, who had gainedthe naval supremacy by the battle of Aegospotami, apreponderance which had changed the former pdieyof Persia. The allied Meet was led by Conon andPharnabazua, and after tlic defeat of the Spartansthe Phoenician seamen wen- employed in rebuildingthe walls of Athens. (Diod. sir. 8t; Nep. Com,c. 4.) These events led to a more intimate con­nection between Phoenicia and Alliens; Phoeniciantraders appear to have settled in that city, wherethree Phoenician inscriptions have been discoveredof the 'late apparently ot about 380 n. i . (Gescn.Mon. Pun. t. 111.) A few years later, a decreewas passed by the Athenian senate, establishing aprogenia between Sirato, king of Sidon, and theAthenians; whilst an immunity from the usual bur­thens imposed on aliens was granted to Sidoiiianssettling at Athens. (Bockh, Corp, Inter, i. 126.)About the same time we Hud the Phoenicians, asthe subjects of Persia, engaged in a disastrous warwith Kvagoras, prince of Salamis in Cyprus, whoravaged their coasts, and, according to Isucratea(Evag. p. 201) and Diodorua (xiv. <J8, 110, xv. 2),captured even Tyre itselt. Ulit in 386 B.C. Kvagoraswas defeated in a great naral engagement, and sub­sequently became a tributary of Persia, (lb. xv. 9.)I>uriiiij all this period Sidon appears to have beenthe most wealthy and prosperous of the Phoeniciancities. (Ib. xvi. 41.) The next important eventin the history of the Phoenicians is their revolt fromPersia, which ended in a disastrous manner. Sidonhad been oppressed by the satraps and generals ofArtaxerxes Ochus; and in a general assembly of thePhoenicians at Tripoli*, in n. c. 352. it was re­solved to throw off the Persian yoke. The royalresidence at Sidon was destroyed and the Peruanamassacred. The Phoenicians then fortified Sidon,and invited Nectanebu>, king of Egypt, to assistthem. In the following year Ochus made greatpreparations to quell this revolt, and particularly topunish Sidon; when Tcnues, king of that city,alarmed at the fate which menaced him, treache­rously negotiated to betray it to the Persians. Heinveigled 100 of the leading citizens into theenemy's camp, where they were put to death, andthen persuaded the Egyptian mercenaries to admitthe Persians into the city. The Sidoniana, whohad burnt their fleet in order to prevent any escapefrom the common danger, being thus reduced todesjialr, shut themselves up with their wives andchildren, and set tire to their bouses. Includingslaves, 40,000 persons are said to have perished onthis occasion. Ten DOS, however, suffered the meritedreward of his treason, and was either put to deathby Ochus or committed suicide. This calamity was a great, but not a fatal, blow to tlx pnsjertiof Sidon, which even to a much later period ittinala considerable portion of her opulence. (1**xvi. 41, sqq.; Mela, i. 12.) The cruelty of the Persians left a lastioj rooe»- ibrance, and was not wholly unrequited. When liaet Itwenty years afterwards Alexander entered PbosaS% ISidon hastened to open her gates to him. TheoaVat Jof Darius at Issus. n. c. 333. opened the wbulr asA Iof Phoenicia to the Greeks. On his march Akxaeaw" Iwaa met by Strato, son of Gen*tratus, kitf allAradus, who surrendered thit iidand to him. » w*Was some towns on the mainland. As he pvnfcUsouthwards he received the submission of Btahfjjand entered Sidon at the invitation of tbe iHe deposed Strain, their king, a vassal of tat IMans; and Abdolonimus, who was related tofbut who at that time followed the humble occajSot a gardener in the suburbs of the city. w» snated to the vacant throne by Alexander's fWftWIlephae*tion. (Curt. iv. 4.) The Tynans so*tflan embassy, professing submission to ttt!donians, but without any real design of p^OfJtheir city. (Arrian, ii. 15.) It was ihowever, for Alexander to proceed on haexpedition, whilst so important a place Lty illrear, at l*est a doubtful friend, and, in rase offverses, soon, perhaps, to become a declared *With a dissimulation equal to that of the Tyihe sought to gain possession of their tquesting ]>erinission to enter and sacrifirules, the progenitor of the royal race of Mat*as well as the tutelary god of Tyre. i>«Tyrians j>erceiving his design, directedanother temple of Hercules at Palae-Tvroa, |he might sacrifice in all liberty and with tiill jeffect, as the func, they asserted, was tand venerable than that of the newi>laiid. Alexander, however, etill ;.t: * -mi tthe hater, and made preparations for bessarjnew town, (Arrian, ii. 15, 16; Cart. ie. JThe means by which he succeededTyre will be found described[Tyri s ] It will suffice here to say, thai by Iof a cau>eway, and after a seven dcity of merchant princes yielded to theAlexander, who was assisted in the eaships of Sidon, Byblus, and Aradus. The iburnt, and most of lite inhabitants either 1sold into slavery. Alexander rrj-oopled h\ jpally, perhaps, with Carians, who seem to Iintimately connected with the Phurnk-iana, Ifind C'aria called Phoeniee by Corinna and Ilides. (Athen. iv. p. 174.) Alter theArbela, Alexander incor}>orated Phoenicia. ICilicia into one province. With themercial spirit the Phoenicians availedhis conquests to extend their trade, andchants, following the track of the Jcarried home myrrh and nard fmm tikeGedrosia. (Arrian, ri. 22, Indie. 18.)employed them to man the ships which idown the Hydaspes to the Indian Ocean, Ito build the vessels which were con*to Thapsacus on the Euphrates, withdescending to Babylon. (/6.) Byintended to colonise the islands andPersian Gulf; hut his schemes werehis death, B.C 323. After that eventwhom Egypt had fallen, annexedgcther with Syria and Palestine, to