OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 323 memory of their deceased sovereign. Such acknowledgments as.gratitude could inspire, they returned to the faithful armies of therepublic, who entertained so just a sense of the legal authority ofthe senate in the choice of an emperor. Yet, notwithstanding thisflattering appeal, the most prudent of the assembly declined ex­posing their safety and dignity to the caprice of an armed multi­tude. The strength of the legions was, indeed, a pledge of theirsincerity ; but could it. naturally be expected, that a hasty repent­ance would correct the inveterate habits of fourscore years ? Shouldthe soldiers relapse into their accustomed seditions, their insolencemight disgrace the majesty of the senate, and prove fatal to theobject of its choice. Motives like these dictated a decree, by whichthe election of a new emperor was referred to the suffrage of themilitary order. , . . The contention that ensued is one of the best attested, but most A. D. t7y.improbable events in the history of mankind \ The troops, as if ,A£3fJ'satiated with the exercise of power, again conjured the senate to in- rfSJff1^*vest one of its own body with the imperial purple. The senate months'still persisted in its refusal; the army in its request. The recipro­cal offer was pressed and rejected at least three times, and whilst theobstinate modesty of either party was resolved to receive a masterfrom the hands of the other, eight months insensibly elapsed: anamazing period of tranquil anarchy, during which the Romanworld remained without a sovereign, without an usurper, and with­out a sedition. The generals and magistrates appointed by Aure-lian continued to execute their ordinary functions, and it is observed,that a proconsul of Asia was the only considerable person removedfrom his office, in the whole course of the interregnum. An event somewhat similar, but much less authentic, is supposedto have happened after the death of Romulus, who, in his life andcharacter, bore some affinity with Aurelian. The throne was va­cant during twelve months, till the election of a Sabine philosopher, T t 2 and