OCR Output 314 WARS OF THE JEWS." ." Book I. Agrippeum. Moreover, he had so very great a kindness forhis friend Agrippa, that he had his name engraved upon thatgate which he had himself erected in the temple. 9. Herod was also a lover of his father, if any other personever was s'o; for he made a monument for his father, even thatcity which he built in the finest plain that was in his kingdom,and whicli had rivers and trees in abundance, and named it Anti-patris. He also built a wall about a citadel that lay above Je­richo, and was a very strong and very fine building, and dedi­cated it to his mother, and called it Cypros. Moreover, he dedi­cated a tower that was at Jerusalem, and called it by the nameof his brother Phasaelus, whose structure, largeness, and mag­nificence, we shall describe hereafter. He also built anothercity in the valley that leads northward from Jericho, and namedit Phasaelis. 10. And as he transmitted to eternity his family and friends,so did he not neglect a memorial for himself,but built a fortressupon a mountain towards Arabia, and named it from himself *Jferodiums and he called that hill that was the shape of awoman's breast, and was sixty furlongs distant from Jerusalem,by the same name. He also bestowed much curious art upomit, with great ambition, and built round towers all about the topof it, and filled up the remaining space with the most costly pa­laces round about, insomuch, that not only the sight of the in­ner apartments was splendid, but great wealth was laid out onthe outward walls, and partitions, and roofs also. Besides this,he brought a mighty quantity of water from a great distance,and at vast charges, and raised an ascent to it of two hundredsteps of the whitest marble, for the hill was itself moderatelyhigh, and entirely factitious. He also built other palaces aboutthe roots of the hill, sufficient to receive the furniture that wasput into them, with his friends also, insomuch, that on accountof its containing all necessaries, the fortress might seem to be acity, but, by the bounds it had, a palace only. Jl. And when heliad built so much, he shewed the greatnessof his soul to no small number of foreign cities. He builtplaces for exercise at Tripoli, and Damascus, and Ptolemais; hebuilt a wall about Byblus, as also large rooms, and cloisters,and temples, and market places at Berytus and Tyre, withtheatres at Sidpn and Damascus. He also built aqueducts for those * Ther« were two cities, or citadels, called Herodiums, in Judea, and both men-tioned by Josephus, not only here, but Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 9.6. XV.ch. ix. sect. 6. Vol. II. Of the War, B. I. chap. xiii. sect. 8. B. III. ch. iii. sect. 'J.One of them wai ioo,and the other 60 furlongs distant from Jerusalem. One ofthem is mentioned by Pliny, Hist. Nat. B. V. chap. xiv. as Dean Aldrich observeshere.