OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIM. 31 diligence than would have been deemed requisite inthe case of war with any neighboring state, intelligencewas brought, by scouts despatched for the purpose,that all was quiet among the Gauls. Suspicions werealso entertained that Samnium still continued, duringthis year, in a disposition to raise new disturbances;for which reason the Roman troops were not withdrawnfrom the country of the Sidicinians. An attack madeby Alexander, king of Epirus, on the Lucanians, drewthe Samnites to that quarter, where those two nations,fought a pitched battle with the king as he was makinga descent on the side of the country adjoining Paestum.Alexander, having gained the victory, concluded atreaty of amity with the Romans ; with what degree offaith he would have observed it, had the rest of hisenterprises proved successful, it is hard to say. Thecensus, or general survey, was performed this year,and the new citizens rated; on whose account two ad­ditional tribes were constituted, the Maician and Scap-tian, by the censors, Quintus Publilius Philo andSpurius Postumius. The Acerrans were inrolled asRomans, in pursuance of a law introduced by the pre-tor, Lucius Papirius, which granted them the privi­leges of citizens, excepting the right of suffrage. Suchwere the transactions, foreign and domestic, of thisyear. 18. The following year [A. U. C. 423. B.C. 329]exhibited a shocking scene, whether occasioned by theintemperature of the air or by the wickedness of thepeople. The consuls were Marcus Claudius Marcel-lus, and Caius Valerius, either Flaccus or Potitus, forI find these different surnames of the consul in the an­nals ; it is however a matter of little consequencewhich of them be the true one. There is another ac­count, which I could heartily wish were false ; thatthose persons whose deaths distinguished this year asdisastrous on account of the extraordinary mortalitywere cut off by poison. Although this particular benot mentioned by all the historians of this period, yet,that I may not detract from the credit of any writer, I