OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL JCHAP. XLI. or jealous emperor celebrated the divine goodness, andednfessed, in silence, the merit of his successful general.8Impatient to abolish the temporal and spiritual tyrannyof the Vandals, he proceeded, without delay, to the fullestablishment of the Catholic church. Her jurisdiction,wealth, and immunities, perhaps the most essential partof episcopal religion, were restored and amplified with aliberal hand; the Arian worship was suppressed; theDonatist meetings were proscribed ;b and the synod ofCarthage, by the voice of two hundred and seventeenbishops/ applauded the just measure of pious retaliation.On such an occasion, it may not be presumed, that manyorthodox prelates were absent; but the comparativesmallness of their number, which in ancient councilshad been twice or even thrice multiplied, most clearlyindicates the decay both of the church and state. WhileJustinian approved himself the defender of the faith, heentertained an ambitious hope, that his victorious lieute­nant would speedily enlarge the narrow limits of his do­minion to the space which they occupied before the in­vasion of the Moors and Vandals; and Belisarius wasinstructed to establish five dukes or commanders in theconvenient stations of Tripoli, Leptis, Cirta, Caesarea,and Sardinia, and to compute the military force of pala­tines Or borderers that might be sufficient for the defenceof Africa. The kingdom of the Vandals was not un­worthy of the presence of a praetorian prefect; and fourconsulars^ three presidents, were appointed to administerthe seven provinces under his civil jurisdiction. Thenumber of their Subordinate officers, clerks, messengers,or assistants, was minutely expressed; three hundred 1 See ihc second and third preambles to the Digest, or Pandects, promulgatedA. D.533, December lb". To the titles of Vantlalicus and Africanus, Justinian, orrather Belisarius, had acquired a jnst claim: Gothicus was premature, and Franci*cu* false, and offensive to a great nation. , b See the original acts in Baronius. (A. D. 535, no. 21—54.) The emperor ap­plauds his own clemency to the heretics, cum sufliciat eis vivere. * Diipin (Geogfaph. Sacra Africans, p. 59. ad Optat. Milev.) observes and bewailsthis episcopal decay. In the more prosperous age of the church, he had noticed sixhundred and ninety hishopricks; but however minute were the diocesses, it is notprohable that they all existed at the same time.