OCR Output an. 4484.] 13 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the living creatures had one language £- atthat time, the serpent, which then lived to­gether with Adam and his wife, shewed an en­vious disposition at his supposal of their livinghappily, and in obedience to the commandsof God; and imagining that when they dis­obeyed they would fall into calamities, he per­suaded the woman, out of a malicious inten­tion, to taste of the tree of knowledge, tell­ing them, that in that tree was the knowledgeof good and evil, which knowledge when theyshould obtain they would lead a happy life:nay, a life not inferior to that of a god;£ bywhich means he overcame the woman, and Sersuaded her to despise the command ofrod. Now, when she had tasted of that tree,and was pleased with its fruit, she persuadedAdam to make use of it also. Upon this theyperceived that they were become nakedJ toone another; and being ashamed thus to ap­pear abroad, they invented somewhat to co­ver them, for the fruit sharpened their under­standing; and they covered themselves withfig-leaves, and tying these before them, outof modesty, they thought they were happierthan they were before, as they hadclis-covered what they were in want of. But whenGod came into the garden,|| Adam, who waswont before to come and converse with him,being conscious of his wicked behaviour,went out of the way. This behaviour sur­prised God: and he asked what was thecause of his procedure; and why he, that be­fore delighted in that conversation, did nowfly from, and avoid it? When he made noreply, as conscious to himself that he hadtransgressed the command of God, God said "I had before determined about you both,how you might lead a happy life, without anyaffliction, care, or vexation of soul; and thatall things which might contribute to your en­joyment and pleasure should grow up by myprovidence, of their own accord, without yourlabour and pains taking: which state of labourwould soon bring on old age, and death wouldnot be at any remote distance. But now thouhast abused my good-will, and hast disobeyedmy commands; for thy silence is not the signot thy virtue, but of thy evil conscience."However, Adam excused his sin, and intreatedGod not to be angry with him; and laid theblame of what was done upon his wife, andsaid, that he was deceived by her, and thencebecame an offender; while she again accusedthe serpent. But God allotted him punish­ment, because he weakly submitted to thecounsel of his wife; and said, the groundshould not henceforth yield its fruits of its ownaccord, but that when it should be harassedby their labour, it would bring forth some ofits fruits, and refuse to bring forth others. Healso made Eve liable to the inconveniencyof breeding, and the sharp pains of bringingforth children ; and this because she persuad­ed Adam with the same arguments where­with the serpent had persuaded her, and hadthereby brought him into a calamitous condi­tion. He also deprived the serpent of speech,out of indignation at his malicious dispositiontowards Adam. Besides this, he inserted poi­son under his tongue, and made him an enemyto men; and suggested to them that theyshould direct their strokes against his head,that being the place wherein lay his mischiev- * Hence it appears, that Josephus thought several atleast of the brute animals, particularly the serpent, couldspeak before the fall: and I think few of the more perfectkinds of those animals want the organs of speech at thisday. Many inducements there are also to a notion, thatthe present state they are in is not their original state, andthat their capacities have been once much greater thanwe now see them. t Gen. iii. 5. J Those who take the word naked in a literal sense, sup­pose that upon the fall, the air, and other elements, imme­diately became intemperate and disorderly; so that ourfirst parents soon knew, or felt, that they were naked, be­cause the sun scorched them, they became wet with therain and the cold pierced them. Others take the expres­sion in a figurative sense, to denote the commission ofsuch sins as man in his senses may well be ashamed of.To this purpose they have observed, that when Moses re­turned from the Mount, and found that the people had made and consecrated a golden image, the expressionin scripture is, the people were naked, they were be­come vile and reprobate sinners, (for so the word yufjwossignifies in the New Testament, Rev. xvi. 15,) forAaron had made them naked unto their shame, amongtheir enemies, Exod. xxxii. 25. See Nicholas conference,vol. LB. II Our first parents were conscious of the approach ofGod to them in the garden by the voice which they heardas usual from the divine presence. The word voice maybe rendered noise; and since God's usual way of noti­fying his presence afterwards was either by a still smallvoice, or noise, 1 Kings xix. 12. or by a noise like that ojgreat waters, Ezek. i. 24, or like the rustling of wind in thetrees, 2 Sam. v. 24. we may reasonably suppose, that itwas either a soft gentle noise, like a breeze of windamong the trees of Paradise, or a louder one like the mur­muring of some large river, which gave Adam notice ofGod's approach. B.