OCR Output an. 1532.] 77 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he would not now suffer them to he suhduedby their enemies; to be either made slaves,or be slain by them; and standing in themidst of them, he said, " It is not just for us todistrust even men, when they have hithertowell managed our affairs, as if they would notbe the same men hereafter; but it is no bet­ter than madness, at this time, to despair ofthe providence of God, by whose power allhas been performed which he promised, whenyou expected no such things: I mean all thatI have been concerned in for your deliv­erance, and escape from slavery. Nay, whenwe are in the utmost distress, as you see wenow are, we ought the rather to hope thatGod will succour us, by whose operation it is,that we are now encompassed within thatnarrow place, that he may deliver us out ofsuch difficulties as are otherwise insurmount­able, and out of which neither you nor yourenemies expect you can be delivered, andmay at once demonstrate his own power, andhis providence over us; nor does God use togive his help in small difficulties to thosewhom he favours, but in such cases where noone can see how any hope in man can bettertheir condition. Depend, therefore, uponsuch a Protector as is able to make smallthings great, and to shew that this mightyforce against you is nothing but weakness;and be not affrighted at the Egyptian army;nor do you despair of being preserved, be­cause the sea before, and the mountains be­hind, afford you no opportunity of flying; foreven these mountains, if God so please, maybe made plain ground for you, and the seabecome dry land."* CHAP. XVI. OF THE MIRACULOUS DIVISION OF THE SEA FOR THE HE­BREWS, WHEN THEY WERE PURSUED BY THE EGYPTIANS;AND OF THE OVERTHROW OF THEIR ENEMIES. HEN Moses had said this, he led themto the sea,f while the Egyptians look- w ed on, for they were within sight. Now thesewere so distressed by the toil of their pursuit,that they thought proper to put off fightingtill the next day; but when Moses was cometo the sea-shore, he took his rod, and madethe supplications to God, and called upon himto be their helper and assistant: and said,"Thou art not ignorant, O Lord, that it isbeyond human strength, and human contri­vance, to avoid the difficulties we are nowunder; but it must be thy work altogether toprocure deliverance to this army, which hasleft Egypt at thy appointment. We despairof any other assistance or contrivance, andhave recourse only to that hope we have inthee: and if there be any method that canpromise us an escape by thy providence, welook up to thee for it; and let it come quickly,and manifest thy power to us, and do thouraise up this people unto good courage, andhope of deliverance, who are deeply sunkinto a disconsolate state of mind. We are ina helpless place; but still it is a place thatthou possessest, for the sea is thine, and themountains that enclose us are thine: so thatthese mountains will open themselves if thoucomraandest them; and the sea also, if thoucommandest it, will become dry land: nay,we might escape by a flight through the air,if thou shouldest determine we should havethat way of salvation." When Moses had thus addressed himself toGod, he smote with his rod upon the s^a,which parted asunder at the stroke, and, re­ceiving those waters into itself, left the grounddry as a road4 and a place of flight for theHebrews. || Now when Moses saw this ap­pearance of God, and that the sea went outof its own place, and left dry land, he wentfirst of all into it, and bid the Hebrews followhim along that divine road, and to rejoice atthe danger their enemies, that followed them,were in; and gave thanks to God for thissurprising deliverance which appeared fromhim. * This speech is very short in our copies. Exod. xiv.13, 14. t The Red Sea, called hy the ancients Sinus Arabicus,and now Gulfo de Mecca, is that part or branch of thesouthern sea which interposes itself between Egypt on thewest; Arabia-Felix, and some parts of Petraea, on theeast: while the northern bounds of it touch upon Idumea,or the coast of Edoro. Edom, in the Hebrew tongue, sig­nifies Red, and was the nickname given Esau for selling his birth-right for a mess of pottage. The country which hisposterity possessed was called after his name, and so wasthe sea which adjoined to it; but the Greeks, not under­standing the reason of the appellation, translated it intotheir tongue, and called it sguSga SaXaffrfa, thence theLatin, Mare Rubrum, and we, the Red Sea. The He»brews call it the Sea of Suph, or Flags, by reason of thegreat abundance of that kind of weed, which grows at thebottom of it; and the Arabs at this day name it Bubr el