OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. &uttered, in the words of Daniel,—"The abomination of desolation i3 in the holyplace. "(1) At the hour of prayer they stood together in the church of the resur­rection; but the caliph refused to perform his devotions, and contented himselfwith praying on the steps of the church of Constantine. To the patriarch he dis­closed his prudent and honourable motive. "Had I yielded," said Omar, "toyour request, the Moslems of a future age would have infringed the treaty, undercolour of imitating my example." By his command the ground of the temple ofSolomon was prepared for the foundation of a mosch;(2) and, during a residence often days, he regulated the present and future state of his Syrian conquests. Me­dina might be jealous, lest the caliph should be detained by the sanctity of Jerusa­lem or the beauty of Damascus; her apprehensions were dispelled by his promptand voluntary return to the tomb of the apostle. (3) To achieve what yet remained of the Syrian war, the caliph had formed twoseparate armies; a chosen detachment, under Amrou and Vczid, was left in thecamp of Palestine; while the larger division, under the standard of Abu Obeidahand fcaled, marched away to the north against Antioch and Aleppo. The latterof these, the Berxa of the Greeks, was not yet illustrious as the capital of a pro­vince or a kingdom; and the inhabitants, by anticipating their submission, andpleading their povertv, obtained a moderate composition for their lives and reli­gion. But the castle of Aleppo,(4) distinct from the city, stood erect on a loftyartificial mound: the sides were sharpened to a precipice, and faced with free­stone ; and the breadth pf the ditch might be filled with water from the neighbouringsprings. After the loss of three thousand men, the garrison was still equal to thedefence; and Youkinna, their valiant and hereditary chief, had murdered his bro­ther, a holy monk, for daring to pronounce the name of peace. In a siege of fouror five months, the hardest of the Syrian war, great numbers of the Saracenswere killed and wounded: their removal to the distance of a mile could not seducethe vigilance of Youkinna: nor could the Christians be terrified by the executionof three hundred captives, whom they beheaded before the c'astle wall. The si­lence, and at length the complaints, of Abii Obeidah informed the caliph, thattheir hope and patience were consumed arthe foot of this impregnable fortress." 1 am variously affected," replied Omar, "by the difference of your success; butI charge you by no means to raise the siege of the castle. Your retreat would di­minish the reputation of our arms, and encourage the infidels to fall upon you onall sides. Remain before Aleppo till God shall determine the event, and foragewith your horse round the adjacent country." The exhortation of the commanderof the faithful was fortified by a supply of volunteers from all the tribes of Arabia,who arrived in the camp on horses or camels. Among these was Dames, of a.servile birth, but of gigantic size, and intrepid resolution. The forty-seventh dayof his service, he proposed, with only thirty men, to make an attempt on the cas­tle. The experience and testimony of Caled recommended his offer; and AbuObeidah admonished his brethren not to despise the baser origin of Dames, sincehe himself, could he relinquish the publie care, would cheerfully serve under thebanner of the slave. His design was covered by the appearance of a retreat; andthe camp of the Saracens was pitched about a league from Aleppo. The thirtyadventurers lay in ambush at the foot of the hill; and Dames at length succeededin his inquiries, though he was provoked by the ignorance of his Greek captives."God curse these dogs," said the illiterate Arab, "what a strange barbarouslanguage they speak!" At the darkest hour of the night he scaled the most ac­cessible height, which he had diligently surveyed, a place where the stones wereless entire, or the slope less perpendicular, or the guard less vigilant Seven ofthe stoutest Saracens mounted on each other's shoulders, and the weight of the (1) To &Se\vy/Mt rfc tftuisiriv; to ptiiv Si* AxiwtK reu iti?$>:t5'j iot«? tv ■vvxaxytw Theophan. Chronograpb.p. 281. This prediction, which had already served for Antiochus and the Roman's, was again refitted for the■present nceasion, by the economy of Sophrnnius, one of the deepest theologians of the Monothelite controversy. (2) According to the accurate survey of d'Anville (Dissertation sur I'ancienne Jerusalem, p. 42—J4.,) themosch of Omar, enlarged and embellished by succeeding caliphs, covered the ground of the ancient temple(;TttXjeiov Tsu uiyxkau vaou JWiJov, says Phocas.) a length of two hundred and fifteen, a breadth of one hundredand seventy-two, loises. The Nubian geographer declares, that this magnificent structure was second only insize and beauty to the great mosch of Cordova (p. 113,) whose present state Mr. Swiburne has so elegantly re­presented (Travels into Spain, p. 29G—302.) (3) Of the many Arabic tarikhs or chronicles of Jerusalem (d'Herbelot, p. 867.,) Ockley found one among thePococks MSS. of Oxford (vol. i. p. 257.,) which he has used to supply the defective narrative of Al Wakidi. (4) The Persian historian of Timur (torn. iii. lib. S. c. ixi. p. 300)describes the castle of Aleppo at founded•on a rock one hundred cubits in height; a proof, says the French translator, that he had never visited the place.It is now in the midst of the city, of no strengtb, with a single gate: the circuit is about five or six hundredpaces, and she ditch half full of stagnant water (Voyages de Tavernier, torn. i. p. 149, Pocock, vol. ii. part. 1. y.l so.) The fortresses of theeast are contemptible to a European eye.