OCR Output Chap. X. WARS or -fHE JEWS. 383 desire to be so called also, and to cut off those of the greatestnobility out of his country. He also extended his impiety asfar as the Jews. Accordingly, he sent Petronius with an armyto Jerusalem, to place his * statues in the temple, and com­manded him that in case the Jews would not admit of them, heshould slay those that opposed it, and carry all the rest of the-nation into captivity; but God concerned himself with thesehis commands. However, Petronius marched out of Antiochinto Judea, with three legions, and many Syrian auxiliaries.Now as to the Jews, some of them could not believe the sto­ries that spake of a war, but those that did believe them werein the utmost distress how to defend themselves, and the terrordiffused itself presently through them all; for the army was al­ready come to Ptolemais. 2. This Ptolemais is a maritime city of Galilee, built in thegreat plain. It is encompassed with mountains; that on the eastside, sixty furlongs off, belongs to Galilee; but that on the southbelongs to Carmel, which is distant from it an hundred andtwenty furlongs; and that on the north is the highest of themall, and is called by the people of the country, the Ladder ofthe Tyriant, which is at the distance of an hundred furlongs.The very small river f Belus runs by it, at the distance of twofurlongs; near which there isj Memnon'smonument, and hathnear it a place no larger than an hundred cubits, which deservesadmiration; for the place is round and hollow, and affords suchsand as glass is made of, which place, when it hath been emp­tied by the many ships there loaded, it is filled again by thewinds, which bring into it, as it were' on purpose, that sandwhich lay remote, and was no more than bare common sand,while this mine presently turns it into glassy sand. And whatis to me still more wonderful, that glassy sand which is super­fluous, and is once removed out of the place, becomes bare com-vmori sand again. And this is the nature of the place we arespeaking of. 3. But now the Jews got together in great numbers withtheir wives and children into that plain that was by Ptolemaisjand made supplication to Petronius, first for their laws, and, inthe next place, for themselves. So he was prevailed upon by the * Tacitus owns that Caius commanded the Jews to place his effigies in theirtemple, though he be mistaken when he adds, that the Jews thereupon took arms. t This account of a place near the mouth of the river Belus in Phenicia, whencecame that sand out of which the ancients made their glass, is a known thing inhistory, particularly in Tacitus and Strabo, and more largely in Pliny. \ This Memnon had several monuments, and one of them appears, both byStrabo and Diodorui, to have b«en in Syria, and nut improbably in this very{dace.