OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 193 recover Locri from the Carthaginians, and was leftwith those troops to garrison the town. In this yourofficer, conscript fathers, (the extremity of our mise­ries gives me spirit to speak freely,) there is nothingof a man but the figure and appearance; nor of a Ro­man citizen, but the features, the dress, and the soundof the Latine language. He is a pestilent and savagemonster; such as fables tell us formerly lay on eachside of the strait which divides us from Sicily, causingthe destruction of mariners. If however he had beencontent with practising his own atrocities alone againstus your allies, that one gulf, however deep, we shouldpatiently have filled up. As the case at present stands,he has made every one of your centurions and soldiersa Pleminius; so much does he wish to render licen­tiousness and wickedness universal. All rob, spoil,beat, wound, slay; ravish both matrons and virgins;while free-born children are torn from the embracesof their parents. Our city is every day stormed,every day plundered; all parts of it resound with thelamentations of women and children, who are seizedand dragged away. Whoever knows our sufferingscannot but be surprised that we still subsist underthem, and that our persecutors are not yet wearied.It is neither in my power to recapitulate, nor oughtyou to be troubled with hearing the particulars of ourcalamities; I shall comprise them in general terms.I affirm that there is not one house, that there is notone man in Locri, exempt from injury; I affirm thatthere is no instance of cruelty, lust, or avarice, whichhas not been put in practice against every one capa­ble of being the object of it. It is scarcely possible toestimate which was the more lamentable disaster tothe city, its being taken in war by the enemy, or itsbeing crushed under the violence and arms of a tyrantsent to protect it, yet bent on its destruction. Everyevil, conscript fathers, which cities taken by stormsuffer, we have suffered, and still continue to suffer,without remission. Every kind of barbarity whichthe most merciless and unreasonable tyrants practise LIV. VOL. V. N