OCR Output CHAP. XLIIt.] Of *HE R6MAN EMPIRE. 46"3 till they were roused to action by the progress of To- July. ^tHa and the reproaches of Justinian. The gates of Ve- —544.rona were secretly opened to Artabazus, at the head ofone hundred Persians in the service of the empire. TheGoths fled from the city. At the distance of sixty-fur­longs the Roman generals halted to regulate the divi­sion of the spoil. While they disputed, the enemy dis<-covered the real number of the victors: the Persianswere instantly overpowered, and it was by leaping fromthe wall that Artabazus preserved a life which he lost ina few days by the lance of a barbarian, who had defiedhim to single combat. Twenty thousand Romans en­countered the forces of Totila, near Faenza, and on thehills of Mugello, of the Florentine territory. The ar­dour of freedmen, who fought to regain their country,was opposed to the languid temper of mercenary troops,who were even destitute of the merits of strong and well-disciplined servitude. On the first attack they abandonedtheir ensigns, threw down their arms, and dispersed onall sides with an active speed which abated the loss, whilstit aggravated the shame, of their defeat. The king ofthe Goths, who blushed for the baseness of his enemies,pursued with rapid steps the path of honour and victor)'.Totila passed the Po, traversed the Appennine, suspendedthe important conquest of Ravenna, Florence, and Rome,and marched through the heart of Italy, to form thesiege, or rather blockade, of Naples. The Roman chiefs,imprisoned in their respective cities, and accusing eachother of the common disgrace, did not presume to dis­turb his enterprise. But the emperor, alarmed by thedistress and danger of his Italian conquests, dispatchedto the relief of Naples a fleet of galleys and a body ofThracian and Armenian soldiers. They landed in Si­cily, which yielded its copious stores of provisions; butthe delays of the new commander, an unwarlike magis­trate, protracted the sufferings of the besieged; and thesuccours, which he dropped with a timid and tardy hand,