OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 361 for thcin always to make such a profession ; but their businesswas to demonstrate that they could write well, and make animpression upon mankind thereby; and in what manner ofwriting they thought they were able to exceed others, to thatdid they apply themselves. Some of them betook themselvesto the writing of fabulous narrations; some of them endeavoredto please the cities or the kings, by writing in their commen­dation ; others of them fell to finding faults with transactions,or with the writers of such transactions, and thought to makoa great figure by so doing. And, indeed, these do what isof all things the most contrary to true history; for it is thegreat character of true history, that all concerned thereinboth speak and write the same things; while these men, bywriting differently about the same things, think they shall bobelieved to write with the greatest regard to truth. We,therefore, [who are Jews,] must yield to the Grecian writersas to language and eloquence of composition ; but then weshall give them no such preference as to the verity of ancienthistory, and least of all as to that part which concerns theaffairs of our own several countries. 0. As to the care of writing down the records from theearliest antiquity among the Egyptians and Babylonians, thatthe priests were intrusted therewith, and employed a philoso­phical concern about it; that they were the Chaldean prieststhat did so among the Babylonians, and that the Phoenicians,who were mingled among the Greeks, did especially make uso been chronology or history, but philology, to know words and not things,they not much entering oftentimes into the real contents of their authors,and judging which were the most accurate discoverers of truth, and most tobe depended on in their several histories, but rather inquiring who wrotethe finest style and had the greatest elegance in their expressions, which arethings of small consequence in comparison with the other. Thus you willsometimes find great debates among the learned, whether Herodotus orThucydides were the finest historians in the Ionic and Attic ways of writing,which signify little as to the real value of each of their histories, while itwould be of much more moment to let the reader know that, as the conse­quence of Herodotus's history, which begins so much earlier, and reachesso much wider than that of Thucydides, is, therefore, vastly greater; eo isthe most part of Thucydides, which belongs to his own times, and fell underhis own observation, much the most certain. IV.—31