OCR Output 372 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. Permanent pointed by special laws. Of this sort were the special tribunalsand special constituted for particular cases («. g. Pp. 152, 186); theQiimtwnes. standing commissional tribunals, such as were appointedfor exactions (P. 73), for poisoning and assassination(P. 112), perhaps also for bribery at elections and otherCeutumvir- crimes in the course of the seventh century ; and, lastly, theal court, court of the hundred and five or more briefly the hundredmen, also called, from the shaft of a spear employed in theprocess as to property, the spear-court (hasta). The periodand circumstances in which this spear-court, which hadjurisdiction in processes as to Roman inheritance, originated,are involved in obscurity; but they must, it may be presumed,have been nearly the same as in the case of the essentiallysimilar criminal commissions mentioned above. As to thepresidency of these different tribunals there were differentregulations in the respective ordinances appointing them:thus there presided over the tribunal as to exactions a praetor,over the assassination-court a president specially nominatedfrom those who had been aediles, over the spear-court severaldirectors taken from the former quaestors. The jurymen bothfor the ordinary and for the extraordinary procedure were, inaccordance with the Gracchan arrangement, taken from thenon-senatorial men of equestrian census: in the case of thespear-court alone three jurymen were nominated by freeelection from each of the thirty-five tribes, and the courtwas composed of these hundred and five men.Sullan Sulla's leading reforms were of a threefold character. Quwdiaaes. First, he very considerably increased the number of thejury-courts. There were henceforth separate judicial com­missions for exactions; for murder, including arson andperjury; for bribery at elections; for high treason andany dishonour done to the Roman name; for adultery;for the most heinous cases of fraud—the forging of willsand of money; for the most heinous violations of honour,particularly for injuries to the person and disturbance of thedomestic peace; perhaps also for embezzlement of publicmoneys, for usury and other crimes; and for each of theseold or new tribunals Sulla issued a special ordinance set­ting forth the crime and form of criminal procedure. Theauthorities, moreover, were not deprived of the right toappoint in case of emergency special courts for specialgroups of crimes. As a result of this arrangement thepopular tribunals on the one hand, and the ordinary judicial