OCR Output NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER. Bis officer's head, became entitled to his privateeflate, as well as to his military commission. [49] Dion, I. Ixxviii. p, 1745. Herodian, 1. v.p. 1S6. The battle was fought near the villageof Immæ, about two and twenty miles from An-tioch. [50] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1350. [5.1] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1363. Herodian, L »<p. 189. [52] This name is derived by the learned fromtwo Syriac.words, Ela a God, and Gabai' to form,the forming, or plastic God, a proper, and evenhappy epithet for the Sun. Wotton's History ofRome, p. 378. [c.3] Herodian, 1. v. p. 190. [51] He broke into the sanctuary of Vesta, andcarried away a. statue, which he supposed to bethe Palladium; but the vestals boasted, that by apious fraud, they had imposed a counterfeit imageon the profane intruder. Hist. August, p. 103. [5;] Dion, 1. lxxix. p 13C0. Herodian, L v.p. 193. The subjects of. the empire were obligedto make liberal presents to the new-married couple;and whatevei they had promised during the life ofElagabalus, was carefully exacted under the ad*ministration of Mamæa. [56] The invention of a new sauce was liberallyrewarded; but if it was not relished, the inventorwas confined to eat of nothing else, till he had dis­covered another more agreeable to the imperialpalate. Hist. August, p. III. [57] He never would eat sea-fish except at agreat distance from the sea; he then would distri­bute vast quantities of the rarest sous, brought at animmense expence, to the peasants of the inlandcountry. Hist. August, p. 109. [58] Dion, L lxxix. p. 1358. Herodian, 1. t.p. 192. [59] Hierocles enjoyed that honour; but hewould have been supplanted by one Zoticus, hadhe not 'contrived, by a potion, to enervate thepowers of his rival, who being found on trial un­ equal to his reputation, was driven with ignominyfrom the palace. Dion, 1. lxxix p. 1363, 1364.A dancer was made præfect of the city, a charioteerprefect of the watch, a barber pra:fcct of the pro­visions. These three ministers, with many inferiorofficers, were all recommended, tntrmitatt membrorum.Hist. August, p. 105. [60] Even the credulous compiler of his lift,in the Augustan History (p 111.) is inclined to sus­pect that his vices may have been exaggerated. [61] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1365. Herodian, I. v.p. 195—201. Hist. August, p. to?. The last ofthe three historians seems to have followed the bestauthors in his account of the revolution. [62] The æra of the death of Elagabalus, amiof the accession of Alexander, has employed thelearning and ingenuity of Pagi, Tillemont, Val-fecchi, Vignoli, and Torre, bishop of Adria. Thequestion is most assuredly intricate; but I still ad­here to the authority of Dion; the truth of whosecalculations is undeniable, and the purity of whosetext is justified by the agreement ofXiphilin, Zo-naras, and Cedrenus. Elagabalus reigned threeyears, nine months, and four days, from his victoryover Macrinus, and was killed March 10, 222.But what shall we reply to the medals, undoubtedlygenuine, which reckon the fifth year of his tribu-nitian power? We shall reply with the learnedValsecchi, that the usurpation of Macrinus was an.nihilated, and that the son of Caracalla dated hisreign from his father's death. After resolving thisgreat difficulty, the smaller knots of this questionmay be easily untied, or cut asunder. [63] Hist. August, p. 114. By this unusualprecipitation, the senate meant to- confound thehopes of Pretenders, and prevent the factions of thoarmies. £64] Metellus Numidicus, the censor, acknow­ledged to the Roman people, in a public oration,that had kind Nature allowed us to exist withoutthe help of women, we should be delivered from avery troublesome companion; and he could recom­mend matrimony, only as the sacrifice of privatepleasure to public duty. Aulus Gellius, i. 6. [65] Tacit. Annal. xiii. 5. [66] Hist.