OCR Output 276 PRECEDING SIONS. [b. VI. tone possible, at every stroke of the whip his answer was,"Woe, woe to Jerusalem." And when Albinus (for he wasthen our procurator) asked him, " Who he was ? and whencehe came ? and why he uttered such words ?" he made no man­ner of reply to what he said, but still did not leave off hismelancholy ditty, till Albinus took him to be a madman, anddismissed him. Now, during all the time that passed beforethe war began, this man did not go near any of the citizens,nor was seen by them while he said so; but he every dayuttered these lamentable words, as if it were his premeditatedvow, — " Woe, woe to Jerusalem." Nor did he give ill wordsto any of those that beat him every day, nor good words tothose that gave him food; but this was his reply to all men,and, indeed, no other than a melancholy presage of what wasto come. This cry of his was the loudest at the festivals;and he continued this ditty for seven years and five months,without growing hoarse, or being tired therewith, until thevery time that he saw his presage in earnest fulfilled in oursiege, when it ceased; for as he was going round upon thewall, he cried out with his utmost force, — " Woe, woe to thecity again, and to the people, and to the holy house." Andjust as he added at the last, — "Woe, woe to myself also,"there came a stone out of one of the engines, and smote him,and killed him immediately; and, as he was uttering the verysame presages, he gave up the ghost. 4. Now, if any one consider these things, he will find thatGod takes care of mankind, and by all ways possible fore­shows to our race what is for their preservation, but that menperish by those miseries which they madly and voluntarilybring upon themselves; for the Jews, by demolishing thetower of Antonia, had made their temple four-square, while,at the same time, they had it written in their sacred oracles,that " then should their city be taken, as well as their holyhouse, when once their temple should become four-square."But now, what did the most elevate them in undertaking thiswar, was an ambiguous oracle that was found also in theirsacred writings, how, " about that time, one from their coun­try should become governor of the habitable earth." The