OCR Output 278 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. CHAP. LI. The Secession in continuation. VV HEN the deputies were withdrawn, Virginius re­presented 10 the soldiers, " That they had juijt before'been at a loss in a matter of no great difficulty, only for this reason, that they were a body without a head. Thai they had indeed given an answer quite to the purpose; but it was rather the effect of chance, than the result of public deliberation. -That it was his own"opmion, they should elect ten person? , whom they"shoulu invest with the chief command, under the mar-"tial title of military tribunes." When they put himat the head of the list; "Reserve, (said he,) your gener-"ous intentions for me, for times more favourable to us"both. No dignity can sit easy on me, whilst my"daughter is unrevenged: and at this time of public"embarrassment, it would be imprudent to confer offices"of authority upon'persons most exposed to the barred"of those in opposition. If you think me capable of"serving you, my endeavours will be no less exerted in"continuing a private person." Ten military tribunes were accordingly created. Theother army employed against the Sabines, soon took thehint, and at the instigation of Icilius and JS'umitorius,threw off all allegiance to the decemvirs. The murder of Siccius now appeared to them in themost glaring colours, and incensed them no less, thanthe late accounts they had received of the base attemptupon Virginia's honour. Whenever Icilius heard thatmilitary tribunes were created on the Aventine hill, lestthe city Comitia should set a precedent, in electing thosewho were military tribunes, to be tribunes of the people,especially as he was a man much versaut in popular af­fairs, and had an eye to the tribunitian power himself,be took care, before they set out for the city, that thesame number of military tribunes should be appointedby that army, and invested with the same authority. They entered the city with colours flying, by the gateCollina, and marched in a body through the middle of