OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. A rapid succession of monarchs had arisen and fallen in the pro- Succession os * * Usurpers in vinces of Gaul. The rigid virtues of Posthumus were fatal to him. Gaul.After suppressing a competitor, who had assumed the .purple atMentz, he refused to gratify his troops with the plunder of thdrebellious city; and in the seventh year of his reign, became thevictim of their disappointed avarice *6. The death of Victorinus,his friend and associate, was occasioned by a less worthy cause*The shining accomplishments 47 of that prince were stained bya licentious passion, which he indulged in acts of violence,with too little regard to the laws of society, or even to those oflove 4". He was slain at Cologne, by a conspiracy of jealous huf-1bands, whose revenge would have appeared more justifiable hadthey spared the innocence of his son. After the murder of so manyvaliant princes, it is somewhat remarkable, that a female for a longtime controuled the fierce legions of Gaul, and still more singular,that she was the mother of the unfortunate Victorinus. Thearts and treasures of Victoria enabled her successively to placeMan us and Tetricus on the throne, and to reign with a manlyvigour under the name of those dependent emperors. Money ofcopper, of silver, and of gold, was coined in her name; she as­sumed the titles of Augusta and Mother of the Camps: her powerended only with her life; but her life was perhaps shortened by theingratitude of Tetricus 49. When, at the instigation of his ambitious patroness, Tetricus The reign andassumed the ensigns of royalty, he was governor of the peaceful tricus.province of Aquitaine, an employment suited to his character andeducation. He reigned four or five years over Gaul, Spain, andBritain, the slave and sovereign of a licentious army, whom hedreaded, and by whom he was despised. The valour and fortune ofAuretian, at length opened the prospect of a deliverance. He ven­tured todHclose his melancholy situation, and conjured the emperorto hasten to the relief of his unhappy rival. Had this secret cor- A. D. 271. Vol. I. Rr - respondence Summer*