OCR Output CHAP. XL,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 50. laws. The first edict of Justinian, which was often re­peated, and sometimes executed, announced his firm re­solution to support the innocent, and to chastise theguilty of every denomination and colour. Yet the ba­lance of justice was still inclined in favour of the bluefaction, by the secret affection, the habits, and the fearsof the emperor; his equity, after an apparent struggle,submitted, without reluctance, to the implacable passionsof Theodora, and the empress never forgot, or forgave,the injuries of the comedian. At the accession of theyounger Justin, the proclamation of equal and rigorousjustice indirectly condemned the partiality of the formerreigns. "Ye blues, Justinian is no more! ye greens,he is still alive !"c A sedition, which almost laid Constantinople in ashes, Sedition ofwas excited by the mutual hatred and momentary recon- nopie^*'*'ciliation of the two factions. In the fifth year of his "'£*meareign, Justinian celebrated the festival of the ides of Ja-D 53?«nuary: the games were incessantly disturbed by the cla- a°n4 7morous discontent of the greens; till the twenty-secondrace, the emperor maintained his silent gravity ; at lengthyielding to his impatience, he condescended to hold, inabrupt sentences, and by the voice of a crier, the mostsingular dialogued that ever passed between a prince andhis subjects. Their first complaints were respectful andmodest; they accused the subordinate ministers of op­pression, and proclaimed their wishes for the long lifeand victory of the emperor. "Be patient and attentiveye insolent railers (exclaimed Justinian)! be mute, yeJews, Samaritans, and Manichasans!" The greens stillattempted to awaken his compassion. "We are poor,we are innocent, we are injured, we dare not pass through c See John Malala. (torn. 2. p. 147); yet he owns that Justinian was attached tothe blues. The seeming discord of the emperor and Theodora, is perhaps viewedwith too much jealoosy and refinement by Procopius. (Anccdot. c. 10.) See Aleman.Praifat. p. 6. d This dialogue, which Tlicophanes has preserved, exhibits the popular language,as well as the manners, of Constantinople in the seventh century. Their Greek ismingled with many strange and barbarous words, for which Ducange cannot alwaysfind a meaning or etymology. F 2