OCR Output 518 ROMAN EMPIRE. of boiling oil.0 To a point of honour Motassem hadsacrificed a flourishing city, two hundred thousand lives,and the property of millions. The same caliph de­scended from his horse, and dirtied his robe to relievethe distress of a decrepit old man, who, with his ladenass, had tumbled into a ditch. On which of theseactions did lie reflect with the most pleasure, when hewas summoned by the angel of death ?dDisorders With Motassem, the eighth of the Abbassides,Turkish the glory of his family and nation expired. When Arabian conquerors had spread themselves— aro, &c. over the east, and were mingled with the servilecrowds of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, they insensibly lostthe freeborn and martial virtues of the desert. The cou­rage of the south is the artificial fruit of discipline andprejudice; the active power of enthusiasm had decayed,and the mercenary forces of the caliphs were recruitedin those climates of the north, of which valour is thehardy and spontaneous production. Of the Turks,0 whodwelt beyond the Oxus and Jaxartes, the robust youths,either taken in war or purchased in trade, were educatedin the exercises of the field, and the profession of theMahometan faith. The Turkish guards stood in armsround the throne of their benefactor, and their chiefsusurped the dominion of the palace and the provinces.Motassem, the first author of this dangerous example, in­duced into the capital above fifty thousand Turks: theirlicentious conduct provoked the public indignation, andthe quarrels of the soldiers and people induced thecaliph to retire from Bagdad, and establish his own re­ c Constantin. Porpbyrogenitus, in Vit. Basil, c. 61. p. 186. These Saracens wereindeed treated with peculiar severity as pirates and reoegadoes. d ForTheophilus, Motassem, and the Amorian war, see the Continuater of Tbeo-phanes, (lib. 3. p. 77 — 84.) Genesius, (lib. 3. p. 24 — 34.) Cedrenus, ( 328 — ~;32.^Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen. p. 180.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 165, 166.) Abulfeda,(Annal. Moslem, p. 191.) d'Herbelot. (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 639, 640.) 'M. de Guigues, who sometimes leaps, and sometimes stumbles, in the gulf be­tween Chinese and Mahometan story, thinks he can see that these Turks are theHoci-kc, alias the Kao-lehe, or high-waggons; that they were divided into fifteenhordes, from China and Siberia to the dominions of the caliphs and Samanides, &c.(Hist, des Huns, torn. 3. p. 1—33. 124—131.)