OCR Output B. IV. TEAR VII.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 301 The news of this arrived at Sparta during the celebrationof some public festival. They set light by it; assured, that,so soon as they appeared in sight, the enemy would eitherabandon it, or the place be recovered by an easy effort. Andthey were something more dilatory because their army wasyet in Attica. The Athenians, having completed their works on the sidetowards the land and on the other necessary spots in the spaceof six days, leave Demosthenes with five ships to guard it,and with the larger number resumed their voyage for Cotcyraand Sicily. But the Peloponnesians in Attica were no sooner adver­tised of this seizure of Pylus, than they marched back withall expedition. The Lacedaemonians, and Agis their king,regarded this affair of Pylus as their own domestic concern.And besides, as they had made the inroad early in the year,and whilst the corn was yet green, many of them laboured un­der a scarcity of provisions. The weather also, which provedtempestuous beyond what was usual in that season, had verymuch incommoded the army. In this manner, many acci­dents concurred to accelerate their retreat, and to render thisthe shortest of all their invasions. For the whole of their stayin Attica was but fifteen days. About the same time, Simonides, an Athenian command­er, having gathered together a small party of Athenians fromthe neighbouring garrisons and a body of the circumjacentdependents, took possession of Ei'on in Thrace, a colony ofthe Mendeans. It had declared against the Athenians, butwas now put into their hands by treachery. Yet, the Chal-i cideans and Bottiaeans coming immediately to its relief, hewas beat out of it again, and lost a great number of his men. After the retreat of the Peloponnesians out of Attica, theSpartans*, in conjunction with those of their allies, marched • The reader will be pleased to take notice, that the word Spartam ishere emphatical. It means those of the first class, the noblest persons idthe community, as is plain from the sequel. Vol. I. 3 F