OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 235 mom equal and familiar appellation of brother.* Per­haps in his connexion with Irene he aspired to the nameof husband; his embassy to Constantinople spoke thelanguage of peace and friendship, and might conceal atreaty of marriage with that ambitious princess, who hadrenounced the most sacred duties of a mother. The na­ture, the duration, the probable consequences, of such aunion between two distant and dissonant empires, it isimpossible to conjecture: but the unanimous silence ofthe Latins may teach us to suspect, that the report wasinvented by the enemies of Irene, to charge her with theguilt of betraying the church and state to the strangersof the west/ The French ambassadors were the spec­tators, and had nearly been the victims, of the conspiracyof Nicephorus, and the national hatred. Constantino­ple was exasperated by the treason and sacrilege ofancient Rome: a proverb, That the Franks were goodfriends and bad neighbours, was in every one's mouth;but it was dangerous to provoke a neighbour who mightbe tempted to reiterate, in the church of St. Sophia,the ceremony of his imperial coronation. After a tedi­ous journey of circuit and delay, the ambassadors ofNicephorus found him in his camp, on the banks of theriver Sala; and Charlemagne affected to confound theirvanity by displaying, in a Franconian village, the pomp,or at least the pride, of the Byzantine palace.8 TheGreeks were successively led through four halls ofaudience: in the first, they were ready to fall prostratebefore a splendid personage in a chair of state, till he • Inviduim tamen suscepti nominis. (C. F. imperatoribus super hoc uulignanli-Iras magni, tulit patient ift, vicitque eorum contumaciarn...mittendo ad eos crebras le-gationes, et in fipistolisfortreseo» appellando; Eginbard, c. 28. p. 128.) Perhapeitwas on their account that, like Augustus, he affected some reluctance to receive ''l In uphancs spcakH of the coronation and auction of Charles, KopouXXo;, (Chro­nograph, p. 399.) and of his treaty of marriage with Irene, (p. 402.) which is un­known to the Latins. Gaillard relates his transactions with the Greek empire,(torn. 2. p. 446—468.) ( Giiillard very properly observes, that this pageant was a farce suitable tochildren only; but that it was indeed represented in the presence, and for (he be­nefit, of children of a larger growth.