OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7* deification. A regular custom was introduced, that on the deceaseof every emperor who had neither lived nor died like a tyrant, thesenate by a solemn decree should place him in the number of thegods : and the ceremonies of his Apotheosis were blended withthose of his funeral. This legal, and as it should seem, injudiciousprofanation, so abhorrent to our stricter principles, was receivedwith a very faint murmur *4, by the easy nature of Polytheism;but it was received as an institution, not of religion but of policy.We should disgrace the virtues of the Antonines, by comparingthem with the vices of Hercules or Jupiter. Even the character ofCæsar or Augustus were far superior to those of the popular deities.But Lt was the misfortune of the former to live in an enlightenedager and their actions were too faithfully recorded to admit ofsuch a mixture of fable and mystery, as the devotion of the vulgarrequires. As soon as their divinity was established by law, it funkinto oblivion, without contributing either to ther own fame, or tothe dignity of succeeding princes. In the consideration of the Imperial government, we have fre- Titles of Au-quently mentioned the artful founder, under his well known title c^,'r*ndof Augustus, which was not however conferred upon him, till theedifice was almost completed. The obscure name of Octavianus,he derived from a mean family, in the little town of Aricia. Itwas stained with the blood of the proscriptions: and he was desir­ous, had it been possible, to erase all memory of his former life.The illustrious surname of Cæsar, he had assumed, as the adoptedson of the dictator; but he had too much good sense, either to hopeto be confounded, or to wish to be compared with that extraordi­nary man. It was proposed in the senate, to dignify their ministerwith a new appellation; and after a very serious discuflion, thatof Augustus was chosen among several others, as being the mostexpressive of the character of peace and sanctity, which he uni­formly affected %$. Augustus was therefore a personal, Cæsar a family