OCR Output an. 1492.] 145 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. camp. And when they had done this for sixdays, on the seventh Joshua gathered thearmed men, and all the people together, andtold them the city should now be taken; sinceGod would on that day give it them, by thefalling down of the walls; and this of their ownaccord and without their labour. However,he charged them to kill every one whom theyshould take; and not to abstain from theslaughter of their enemies, either for weari­ness or for pity; and not to fall on the spoiland be thereby diverted from pursuing theirenemies as they ran away; but to destroy allthe animals, and to take nothing for their ownpeculiar advantage. He commanded themalso to bring together all the silver and gold,that it might be set apart as first-fruits untoGod, out of this glorious exploit, as havinggotten them from the first city they took; onlythat they should save Rahab and her kindredalive, because of the oath which the spieshad sworn to her. When he had said this, and had set hisarmy in order, he brought it against thecity; so they went round the city again, theark going before them, and the priests en­couraging the people to be zealous in thework; and when they had gone round itseven times, and had stood a little, the wallfell down; while no instruments of war, norany other force was applied to it by the He­brews. So they entered into Jericho, and slew allthe men that were therein, while they were affrighted at the surprising overthrow of thewalls, and their courage was become useless,and they were not able to defend themselves;so they were slain, and their throats cut, somein the ways, and others as caught in theirhouses; nothing afforded them assistance, butthey all perished, even to the women and thechildren, and the city was filled with deadbodies, and not one person escaped. Theyalso burnt the whole city, and the countryabout it, but they saved alive Rahab, withher family, who had fled to her inn; and whenshe was brought to him, Joshua owned thatthey owed her thanks for her preservation ofthe spies. He also said he would not appearto be behind her in his benefaction to her,and therefore he gave her certain lands im­mediately, and held her in great esteem everafterwards. If any part of the city escaped the fire, heoverthrew it from its foundation, and de­nounced a curse* against its inhabitants, ifany one should desire to rebuild it; how uponhis laying the foundations of the walls heshould be deprived of his eldest son, and uponfinishing it he should lose his youngest son;fbut what happened hereuponJ we shall speakof hereafter. Now there was an immense quantity of sil­ver and gold, and besides those of brass also,that was heaped together out of the city whenit was taken; no one transgressing the decree,nor purloining for their own peculiar advan­tage; which spoils Joshua delivered to the * Upon occasion of this devoting of Jericho to destruc­tion, and the exemplary punishment of Achar, who brokethat cherem or anathema, and of the punishment of thefuture breaker of it, Hiel, 1 Kings xvi. 34. as also of thepunishment of Saul for breaking the like cherem or ana­thema against the Amalekites, 1 Sam. xv. we may observewhat was the true meaning of that law, Levit. xxvii. 28.None devoted, which shall be devoted of men, shall beredeemed, but shall surely be put to death, i. e. When­ever any of the Jews' public enemies had been for theirwickedness solemnly devoted to destruction, according tothe divine command, as were generally the seven wickednations of Canaan, and those sinners the Amalekites,1 Sam. xv. 18. (see the note on IV. 7.) it was utterly un­lawful to permit those enemies to be redeemed, but theywere to be all utterly destroyed. See also Numb. xxi. 2,3. The words of Joshua's execration are these:—Cursedbe the man before the Lord, that raiseth up, and buildeth thiscity Jericho; he shall lay the foundation thereof in his first­born, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it,Josh, vi- 26. "This anathema (says Maimonides) waspronounced, that the miracle of the subversion of Jericho might be kept in perpetual memory; for whosoever sawthe walls sunk deep in the earth, (as he understands it.)would clearly discern, that this was not the form of abuilding destroyed by men, but miraculously throwndown by God." Hiel, however, in the reign of Abab,'either not remembering, or not believing this denuncia­tion, was so taken with the beauty of its situation, that herebuilt Jericho, and, as the sacred history informs us, laidthe foundation thereof in Ahiram, his first-born, and set upthe gates thereof in his youngest son Segub, according to theword of the Lord, which he spake to Joshua, the son of Nun,1 Kings xvi. 34. However, after that Hiel had venturedto rebuild it, no scruple was made of inhabiting it; for itafterwards became famous upon many accounts. Herethe prophet sweetened the waters of the spring that sup­plied it, and the neighbouring countries. Here Herodbuilt a sumptuous palace; it was the dwelling-place ofZaccheus, and was honoured with the presence of Christ,who vouchsafed likewise to work some miracles here.Univer. Hist. lib. 1. c. 7. B. t Josh. vi. 26. J This is now wanting in Josephus.