OCR Output 474 f THE HISTORY BOOK fo,^ " the reprefentation and image of him whomj,__vX-j " ye formerly made a military tribune, the firftY.R. 3<;8. " plebeian that was ever fo honoured. Him, form.'B.C.39*. " ed under my own difcipline, I prefent and dedi-"eate to the commonwealth, as a fubftitutc in my"ftead. And I befeech you, Romans, that the"honour which, of your own motion, ye offered"to me, ye will vouchfafe to grant to his petition,"and to my prayers, which I add in his behalf."This requeft of the father was complied'with, andV.n. 559. his fon Publius Licinius was declared military tribuneJi.C. 393. witn confular power, together with thole whom wementioned before. The military tribunes, Titiniusand Genucius, marched againft the Falifcians andCapenatians, and acting with more courage thanconduct, fell into an ambufn. Genucius atoned forhis rafhnefs by an honourable death, falling amongthe foremoft, in the front of the ftandards. Ti­tinius, after rallying his men, who had been throwninto the utmoft diforder, and leading them to a rifting ground, formed them again in order of battle;but did not venture to come down and meet theenemy. The difgrace was greater than the lofs, andhad like to have proved the caufe of grievous mis­fortunes, fo great was the alarm which It excited no.tonly at Rome, where it was highly exaggerat.ed by1.report, but allb in die camp at Veii. Here the fol-diers were, with difficulty, reftrained from flight, ona rumour having fpread through the camp, that thegenerals and the army had been cut to pieces; and:that the Capenatians and Falifcians, fiufhed withvictory, and all the youth of Etruria, were at nogreat difbance from their pofts. Accounts Hill moredreadful had gained credit at Rome: that the campat Veii was already attacked, that part of the en«Smv were already on their march to the city, pre-pared for an aflault. The men ran in crowds to thewalls, and the matrons, called out from their houfcs,by th'.' public diftraction, offered foppfications foe protection,