OCR Output CHAP. XUII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25Q Carthage. The feeble Areobindus, unskilled in the af­fairs of peace and war, was raised by his marriage with theniece of Justinian to the office of exarch. He was sud­denly oppressed by a sedition of the guards, and his ab­ject supplications, which provoked the contempt, couldnot move the pity, of the inexorable tyrant. After afeign of thirty days, Gontharis himself was stabbed at abanquet, by the hand of Artaban; and it is singularenough, that an Armenian prince, of the royal family ofArsaces, should re-establish at Carthage the authority ofthe Roman empire. In the conspiracy which unsheathedthe dagger of Brutus against the life of Caesar, every cir­cumstance is curious and important to the eyes of poste­rity: but the guilt or merit of these loyal or rebelliousassassins could interest only the contemporaries of Pro-copius, who, by their hopes and fears, their friendship orresentment, were personally engaged in the revolutionsof Africa.b That country was rapidly sinking into the state of bar- Rebellionbarism, from whence it had been raised by the Phoenician Jj **s>colonies and Roman laws: and every step of intestine A-Sj"8543discord was marked by some deplorable victory of savageman over civilized society. The Moors/ though igno­rant of justice, were impatient of oppression: their va­grant life and boundless wilderness disappointed thearms, and eluded the chains, of a conqueror; and expe­rience had shewn, that neither oaths nor obligationscould secure the fidelity of their attachment, The vic-rtory of mount Auras had awed them into momentarysubmission; but if they respected the character of Solo­mon, they hated and despised the pride and luxury ofhis two nephews, Cyrus and Sergius, on whom their D YntI must not refuse him tlx merit of painting, in lively colours, the murder ofGontharis. One of the Msailing uttered a sentiment not unworthy of a Roman pa-triot.—" If I fail (said Artasires) in the first stroke, kill me on the spot, lest therack should extort a discovery of my accomplices." c The Moorish'wars are occasionally introduced ioto the narrative of Procopius;(Vandal, lib. 2. c. 19—23. 2o. 27, 28. Gothic, lib. 4. c. 17.) and Tkeopkanes addssome prosperous and adverse events in the last years of Justinian.