OCR Output 240 TITUS ADDRESSES [B. VI. ill successes ; for it is unbecoming you, who are Romans andmy soldiers, who have in peace been taught how to make wars,and who have also been used to conquer in those wars, to beinferior to Jews either in action of the hand or in courage ofthe soul, and this especially when you are at the conclusionof your victory, and are assisted by God himself; for as toour misfortunes, they have been owing to the madness of theJews, while their sufferings have been owing to your valor,and to the assistances God hath afforded you; for as to theseditions they have been in, and the famine they are under,and the siege they now endure, and the fall of their wallswithout our engines, what can they all be but demonstrationsof God's anger against them, and of his assistance affordedus ? It will not, therefore, be proper for you either to showyourselves inferior to those to whom you are really superior,or to betray that divine assistance which is afforded you. And,indeed, how can it be esteemed otherwise than a base andunworthy thing, that while the Jews, who need not be muchashamed if they be deserted, because they have long learnedto be slaves to others, do yet despise death, that they be sono longer; and do make sallies into the very midst of us fre­quently, not in hopes of conquering us, but merely for a de­monstration of their courage ; we, who have gotten possessionof almost all the world that belongs to either land or sea, towhom it will be a great shame if we do not conquer them, donot once undertake any attempt against our enemies whereinthere is much, danger, but sit still idle, with such brave armsas we have, and only wait till the famine and fortune do ourbusiness themselves, and this when we have it in our power,with some small hazard, to gain all that we desire: for, if wego up to this tower of Antonia, we gain the city; for if theroshould be any more occasion for fighting against those withinthe city, which I do not suppose there will, sinco we shallthen be upon the top of the hill,1 and be upon our enemies ■Belaud notes here, Tory pertinently, that the tower of Antor.ni stoodhigher than the floor of the temple, or court adjoining to it; and that, accord­ingly, they descended thence into the temp'.e, as Josephus elsewhere speaksalso. Sec B. vi. ch. ii. sect. 0.