OCR Output 156 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. be taken without great difficulty, through thestrength of its walls and the nature of theplace. For this reason they removed their campto Hebron; and when they had taken it, theyslew all the inhabitants. There were tillthen left the race of giants;* who had bodiesso large, and countenances so entirely dif­ferent from other men, that they were sur­prising to the sight, and terrible to the hear­ing. The bones of these men are shewn tothis very day, unlike to any credible relationsof other men. Now they gave this city to theLevites, as an extraordinary reward, withthe suburbs of two thousand cubits. But theland thereto belonging they gave as a freegift to Caleb, according to the injunctions ofMoses. This Caleb was one of the spieswhich Moses sent into the land of Canaan;they also gave land for habitation to the pos­terity of Jethro, the Midianite, who was thefather-in-law to Moses. For they had lefttheir own country and followed them, andaccompanied them in the wilderness. Now the tribes of Judah and Simeon tookthe cities which were in the mountainous partof Canaan, as also Ascalon and Ashdod, ofthose that lay near the sea. But Gaza andEkron escaped them; for they, lying in a flatcountry, and having a great number of cha­riots, sorely galled those that attacked them.So these tribes when they were grown veryrich by this war, retired to their own cities,and laid aside their weapons of war. But the Benjamites, to Whom belonged Je­rusalem, permitted its inhabitants to pay tri­bute; so they all left off, the one to kill, andthe other to expose themselves to danger, andhad time to cultivate the ground. The restof the tribes imitated that of Benjamin, anddid the same; and contenting themselves withthe tributes that were paid them, permittedthe Canaanites to live in peace. However, the tribe of Ephraim, when theybesieged Bethel, made no advance; nor per­formed any thing worthy of the time theyspent, and of the pains they took about thatsiege. Yet did they persist in it, still sittingdown before the city; though they enduredgreat trouble thereby. But, after some time,they caught one of the citizens, that came tothem to get necessaries; and they gave himsome assurances, that if he would deliver upthe city they would preserve him and hiskindred. So he sware that, upon those terms,he would put the place into their hands.Accordingly, he was preserved with his fa­mily, whue the Israelites slew all the otherinhabitants, and retained the city for them­selves. After this the Israelites grew effeminate asto fighting any more against their enemies;but applied themselves to the cultivation ofthe land; which producing great plenty andriches, they neglected the regular dispositionof their settlement, and indulged themselvesin luxury and pleasures. Nor were they anylonger careful to hear the laws that belonged nary voice from between the cherubim, when he had hisbreast-plate, or Urim and Thummim on, before or in themost holy place of the temple; which was no other thanthe oracle of Urim and Thummim. Of which above, inthe note on Antiq. III. 8. ** This great number of Reguli, or small kings overwhom Adonibezek had tyrannized, and for which he waspunished according to the Lex Talionis; as well as thethirty-one kings of Canaan, subdued by Joshua, and namedin one chapter, Josh. xii. and thirty-two kings, or royalauxiliaries, to Benhadad king of Syria, 1 Kings xx. 1.Antiq. VIII. 14. intimate to us, what was the ancient formof government among several nations, before the monar­chies began; viz. That every city or large town, with itsneighbouring villages, was a distinct government by itself.Which is the more remarkable, because this was certainlythe form of ecclesiastical government that was settled bythe apostles, and preserved throughout the Christianchurch, in the first age of Christianity. Mr. Addison isof opinion, that it would be for the good of mankind, tohave all the mighty empires and monarchies of the worldcantoned out into petty states and principalities; that, like so many large families, might lie under the observation oftheir proper governors; so that the care of the princemight extend itself to every individual person under hisprotection; though he despairs of such a scheme beingbrought about; and thinks that if it were, it would quicklybe destroyed. Remarks on Italy, 4to. p. 151. Nor is itunfit to be observed here, that the Armenian records,though they give us the history of thirty-nine of theirancientest heroes or governors, after the flood, before thedays of Sardana lus, had no proper king till the 40thPararus. See Mora's Chorenensis, p. 55, and the notethere. And the Almighty God does not approve of suchabsolute or tyrannical monarchies, and one may learn, thatreads Deut. xvii. 14—20. and 1 Sam. viii. 1—22. xii.1—26. Although if such kings are set up, as own himfor their supreme King; and aim to govern according tohis laws, he hath admitted of them, and protected them,and their subjects, in all generations. tt Judg. i. 7. * Of the old giants, their several species, statures, andremaining bones, see Authent. Rec. Part I. p. 260—293.and Part II. 872—938. at large. >