OCR Output Chap. IX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 381 days, both Herod and Philip continued in their tetrachies, andthe latter of them built the city Caesarea, at the fountains ofJordan, and in the region of Paneas; as also the city Julias, inthe lower Gaulanitis. Herod' also built the city Tiberias inGalilee, and in Perea [beyond Jordan] another that was alsocalled Julias. 2. Now Pilate, who was sent as a procurator into Judea byTiberius, sent by night those images of Caesar that are calledtnsigns, into Jerusalem. This excited a very great tumult amongthe jews when it was day; for those that were near them wereastonished at the sight of them, as indications that their lawswere trodden underfoot; for those laws do not permit any sortof image to be brought into the city. Nay, besides the indigna­tion which the citizens had themselves at this procedure, a vastnumber of people came running out of the country. These camezealously to Pilate to Cesarea, and besought him to carry thoseensigns out of Jerusalam, and to preserve them their ancient lawsinviolable ; but upon Pilate's denial of their request, they felldown prostrate upon the ground, and continued immoveable inthat posture for five days and as many nights. 3. On the next day Pilate sat upon his tribunal, in the openmarket place, and called to him the multitude, as desirous togive them an answer; and then gave a signal to the soldiers,that they should all by agreement at once encompass the Jewswith their weapons; so the band of soldiers stood round aboutthe Jews in three ranks. The Jews were under the utmost con­sternation at that unexpected sight. Pilate also said to them,that they should be cut in pieces, unless they would admit ofCaesar's images, and gave intimation to the soldiers to drawtheir naked swords. Hereupon the Jews, as it were at onesignal, fell down in vast numbers together, and exposed theirnecks bare, and cried out that they were sooner ready to beslain, than that their law should be transgressed. Hereupon Pi­late was greatly surprised at their prodigious superstition, andgave order that the ensigns should be presently carried out ofJerusalem. 4. After this he raised another disturbance, by expending thatsacred treasure which is called * Corban upon aqueducts, where­by he brought water from the distance of four hundred fur­longs. At this the multitude had indignation ; and when Pilatewas come to Jerusalem, they came about his tribunal, and madea clamour at it. Now when he was apprised aforehand of this disturbance, * This use of the corban, or oblation, a? here applied to the sacred money dedi-eated to God in the treasury of the ternple, illustrates our Saviour's words, MarkV'i. II, I*. ".' -