OCR Output 216 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. munificence were extended to every spot which hadXVIU, been consecrated by the footsteps of patriarchs, ofprophets, and of the Son of God.Julian at, The vain and ambitious mind of Julian mightrebiSa'the aspire to restore the ancient glory of the temple oftemple. Jerusalem *. As the Christians were firmly persuadedthat a sentence of everlasting destruction had beenpronounced against the whole fabric of the Mosaiclaw, the Imperial sophist would have converted thesuccess of his undertaking into a specious argumentagainst the faith of prophecy, and the truth of reve­lation. These considerations might influence hisdesigns; and the prospect of an immediate and im­portant advantage would not suffer the impatientmonarch to expect the remote and uncertain eventof the Persian war. He resolved to erect, withoutdelay, on the commanding eminence of Moriah, astately temple, which might eclipse the splendour ofthe church of the Resurrection on the adjacent hillof Calvary; to establish an order of priests, whoseinterested zeal would detect the arts, and resist theambition, of their Christian rivals; and to invite anumerous colony of Jews, whose stern fanaticismwould be always prepared to second, and even to an­ticipate, the hostile measures of the Pagan govern­ment. Among the friends of the emperor (if thenames of emperor and of friend are not incompatible)the first place was assigned, by Julian himself, to thevirtuous and learned Alypiust. The humanity ofAlypius was tempered by severe justice, and manlyfortitude; and while he exercised his abilities in thecivil administration of Britain, he imitated, in his • Imperii sui memoriam magnitudine operum gestiens propagare. Ammian.xxiii. I. The temple of Jerusalem had been famous even among the Gentiles.They had many temples in each city (at Sichem five, at Gaza eight, at Rome fourhundred and twenty-four); but the wealth and religion of the Jewish nation wascentred in one spot. t Julian, epist. xxix, xxx. La Bleterie has neglected to translate the secondof these epistles.