OCR Output Air. 1116.] 191 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Nafaash, contemning the multitude of theGileadites, and the answer they gave, allowedthem a respite, and gave them leave to sendto whomsoever they pleased for assistance.So they immediately sent to the Israelites, cityby city; and informed them what Nahash hadthreatened to do, and what great distress theywere in. Now the people tell into tears andgrief, at the hearing of what the ambassadorsfrom Jabesh said; and the terror they werein permitted them to do nothing more. Butwhen the messengers were come to the cityof king Saul, and declared the danger inwhich the inhabitants of Jabesh were, thepeople were in the same affliction as those inthe other cities; for they lamented the ca­lamity of those related to them. And whenSaul was returned from his husbandry, intothe city, he found his fellow citizens weeping;and when, upon inquiry, he had learned thecause of the confusion and sadness they werein, he was seized with a divine fury, and sentaway the ambassadors from the inhabitants ofJabesh, promising to come to their assistanceon the third day, and to beat their enemiesbefore sun-rising; that the sun, upon its rising,might see that they had already conquered,and were freed from the fears they wereunder. But he bade some of them remain toconduct him the right way to Jabesh. So being desirous to excite the people tothis war against the Ammonites, by fear ofthe losses they should otherwise undergo; andthat they might the more suddenly be ga­thered together, he cut the sinews of his oxen,and threatened to do the same to all such asdid not come with their armour to Jordan thenext day, and follow him and Samuel theprophet, whithersoever they should leadthem. So they came together, out of fear ofthe losses they were threatened with, at theappointed time. And the multitude werenumbered at the city Bezek. And he foundthe number of those that were gathered to­gether, besides that of the tribe of Judah, to beseven hundred thousand; while those of thattribe were seventy thousand. So he passedover Jordan, and proceeded in marching allthat night, thirty furlongs; and came to Jabeshbefore sun-rising. So he divided the armyinto three companies, and fell upon their * 1 Sam. xi. 18.t 1 Sam. xi. 14. enemies suddenly and unexpectedly on everyside; and joining battle with them, theyslew a great many of the Ammonites, togetherwith their king Nahash. This glorious ac­tion was performed by Saul, and was re­lated with great commendation of him to allthe Hebrews: and he thence gained a won­derful reputation for his valour. For al­though there were some that contemned himbefore, they now changed their minds, andhonoured and esteemed him as the best ofmen. For he did not content himself withhaving merely saved the inhabitants of Ja­besh; but he made an expedition into thecountry of the Ammonites, and laid it allwaste, and took a large prey, and thenreturned to his own country triumphantly.So the people were greatly pleased at theseexcellent performances of Saul, and re­joiced that they had constituted him theirking. They also made a clamour againstthose who pretended he would be of noadvantage to their affairs: and they said,"Where now are these men? let them bebrought to punishment :"* with all the likethings that multitudes usually say, whenelevated with prosperity, against those thatlately had despised the authors of it. ButSaul, although he took the good will and theaffection of these men very kindly, yet didhe swear that he would not see any of hiscountrymen slain that day: since it was ab­surd to mix this victory which God had giventhem, with the slaughter of those thatwere of the same lineage with themselves:and that it was more agreeable to be thenof a friendly disposition, and to betake them­selves to feasting. When Samuel had told them that theyought to confirm the kingdom to Saul by asecond ordination of him, they all cametogether to the city Gilgal; for thither didhe command them to come.t So the prophetanointed Saul with the holy oil, in sightof the multitude, and declared him to beking the second time. And so the govern­ment of the Hebrews was changed into aregal government. For in the days of Moses,and his disciple Joshua, who was their ge­neral, they continued under an aristocracy.But after the death of Joshua, for eighteen! X From an. 1467 to 1449. B. C,