OCR Output 392 livy. should any occasion offer, would even assist the Ro­mans. The Insubrians knew not that such an agree­ment had been concluded, but they harbored in theirminds some kind of suspicion that the fidelity of theirconfederates was wavering. Wherefore, in formingtheir troops for battle, not daring to intrust eitherwing to them, lest, if they should treacherously giveground, they might cause a total defeat, they placedthem in reserve behind the line. At the beginning ofthe fight the consul vowed a temple to Juno Sospita,provided the enemy should on that day be routed,and driven from the field; on which the soldiersraised a shout, declaring, that they would insure totheir commander the completion of his vow, and atthe same time attacked the enemy. The Insubriansdid not stand even the first onset. Some writers affirmthat the Casnomanians, falling on their rear, during theheat of the engagement, caused as much disorderthere as prevailed in their front; and that, thusassailed on both sides, thirty-five thousand of themivere slain, five thousand seven hundred taken pri­soners, among whom was Hamilcar, a Carthaginiangeneral, the original cause of the war; and that a hun­dred and thirty military standards, and above two hun­dred waggons were taken. On this, the towns, whichhad joined in the revolt, surrendered to the Romans. 31. The other consul, Minucius, had at first spreadhis troops through the territories of the Boians, com­mitting violent depredations every where; but after­wards, when that people left the Insubrians, and camehome to defend their own property, he kept his menwithin their camp, expecting to come to an engage­ment with the enemy. Nor would the Boians havedeclined a battle if their spirits had not been de­pressed, by hearing of the defeat of the Insubrians.This so deeply affected them, that, deserting theircommander and their camp, they dispersed themselvesthrough the several towns, each wishing to take careof his own effects. Thus they obliged the enemy toalter their mode of carrying on the war: for, no lonJ