OCR Output 488 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS but when Alexander saw that Ptolemy wasretired from Gaza to Cyprus, and his motherCleopatra was returned to Egypt; he grewangry at the people of Gaza, because theyhad invited Ptolemy to assist them; and be­sieged their city, and ravaged their country.But as Apollodorus, the general of the armyof Gaza, fell upon the camp of the Jews bynight, with two thousand foreign, and *tenthousand of his own forces; while the nightlasted, those of Gaza prevailed; because theenemy were made to believe that it was Pto­lemy who attacked them. But when daycame on, and that mistake was corrected, andthe Jews knew the truth of the matter, theycame back again, and fell upon those of Gaza,and slew of them about a thousand. But asthose of Gaza stoutly resisted, and would notyield for either their want of any thing, norfor the great multitude that were slain; (forthey would rather suffer any hardship what­ever, than come under the power of their ene­mies;) Aretas, king of the Arabians, a personthen very illustrious, encouraged them to goon with alacrity; and promised them that hewould come to their assistance. But it hap­pened that before he came Apollodorus wasslain: for his brother Lysimachus envyinghim for the great reputation he had gainedamong the citizens, slew him; and got thearmy together, and delivered upf the city.When Alexander came in, at first he layquiet; but afterward set his army upon theinhabitants of Gaza, and gave them leave topunish them. So some went one way, andsome another, and slew the inhabitants ofGaza. Yet were not they of cowardly hearts;but opposed those that came to slay them,and slew as many of the Jews: and some ofthem, when they saw themselves deserted,burnt their own nouses; that the enemy might get none of their spoils. Nay, some of themwith their own hands slew their wives andchildren; having no other way of avoidingslavery. But the senators, who were in all fivehundred, fled to Apollo's temple; (for this at­tack happened to be made as they were sit­ting,) whom Alexander slew; and when he hadutterly overthrown their city, he returned toJerusalem; having spent a year in that siege. About this time JAntiochus Grypus died.His death was caused by Heracleon's trea­chery; when he had lived forty-five years,and had reigned ||twenty-nine. His eon Se-leucus succeeded him in the kingdom; andmade war with Antiochus, his father's bro­ther, who was called Antiochus Cyzicenus,and defeated him, and took him prisoner, andslew him. But after a while §Antiochus, theson of Cyzicenus, who was called Pius, cameto Aradus; and put the diadem on his ownhead; and made war with Seleucus, and drovehim out of all Syria. But when he fled out ofSyria, he came to Mopsuestia again, andlevied money upon them. But when Antio­chus, the son of Cyzicenus, was king of Syria;**Antiochus, the brother of Seleucus, madewar upon him, and was overcome, and de­stroyed, he and his army. After him his bro­ther Philip put on the diadem, and reignedover some part of Syria. But Ptolemy Lathy-rus sent for his fourth brother, Demetrius,who was called Eucerus, from Cnidus; andmade him king of Damascus. Both thesebrothers did Antiochus vehemently oppose;but presently died. For when he was comeas an auxiliary to ffLaodice,JJ queen of theGileadites, when she was making war againstthe Parthians, and he was fighting coura­geously, he fell: while Demetrius and Philipgoverned Syria. As to Alexander, his own people were sedi­ * Or, one thousand. t An. 97. J This account of the death of Antiochus Grypus, isconfirmed by Appian, Syriac. page 132. here cited bySpanheim. II Porphyry says, that this Antiochus Grypus reignedbut 26 years; as Dr. Hudson observes. § The copies of Josephus, both Greek and Latin, havehere so grossly false a reading, Antiochus and Antoniusor Antonius Pius, for Antiochus Pius, that the editors areforced to correct the text from the other historians: whoall agree that this king's name was nothing more thanAntiochus Pius. ** These two brothers, Antiochus and Philippus, are called twins by Porphyry: the fourth brother was kingof Damascus. Both which are the observations of Spanheim. tt Or Laodicea of Gilead. JJ This Laodicea was a city of Gilead, beyond Jordan.However Porphyry says, that this Antiochus Pius did notdie in this battle; but, running away, was drowned in theriver Orontes. Appian says, that he was deprived of thekingdom of Syria by Tigranes. But Porphyry makes thisLaodice queen of the Calamans. All which is noted hySpanheim. In such confusion of the later historians, wehave no reason to prefer any of them before Josephus,who had more original ones before him.