OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 15 "With unimpaired courage and increased resentment the Mancinus.Numantines resumed the struggle; Laenas fought againstthem unsuccessfully, nor was his successor Gaius HostiliusMancinus more fortunate (617). But their discomfiture 137.was occasioned not so much by the arms of the Numantines,as by the lax and wretched military discipline of theBoman generals and by—what was its natural consequence—the annually increasing dissoluteness, insubordination, andcowardice of the Roman soldiers. The mere rumour, whichmoreover was false, that the Cantabri and Vaccaei wereadvancing to the relief of Numantia, induced the Romanarmy to evacuate the camp by night without orders, and toseek shelter in the entrenchments constructed sixteen yearsbefore by Nobilior (P. 6). The Numantines, informedof their sudden departure, hotly pursued the fugitive army,and surrounded it: there remained to it no choice saveto fight its way with sword in hand through the enemy, orto conclude peace on the terms laid down by the Numan­tines. Although the consul was personally a man of honour,he was weak and little known. Tiberius Gracchus, whoserved in the army as quaestor, had more influence with theCeltiberians from the hereditary respect in which he washeld on account of his father who had so wisely regulatedthe province of the Ebro, and induced the Numantines tobe content with an equitable treaty of peace sworn to byall the staff-officers. But the senate not only recalled thegeneral immediately, but after long deliberation causeda proposal to be submitted to the burgesses that the con­vention should be treated as they had formerly treated thatof Caudium, in other words, that they should refuse itsratification and should devolve the responsibility on thosewho had concluded it. By right this category ought tohave included all the officers who had sworn to the treaty;but Gracchus and the others were saved by their connec­tions; Mancinus alone, who did not belong to the circle ofthe highest aristocracy, was destined to pay the penalty forhis own and others' guilt. Stripped of his insignia, theEoman consular was conducted to the enemy's outposts,and, when the Numantines refused to receive him thatthey might not on their part acknowledge the treaty asnull, the late commander-in-chief stood in his shirt andwith his hands tied behind his back for a whole day beforethe gates of Numantia, a pitiful spectacle to friend and foe.