OCR Output 434 NILUS. NII.US. continued by Dareius Hystaspis (b. c. 520—527),but nly completed by Ptolemy Philadelphia (n. c274). It began in the Pelusiac branch of the Nile,a little above the city of Bubastus (Tel-Bastu), andparsing by the city of Thoum or Patumns, was car­ried by the Persians as far as the Bitter Lakes, NE.of the Delta. Here, however, it was suspended bythe troubles of both Aegypt and Persia, under thesuccessors of Dareius, and was, in a great measure,clinked up with sand. (Herod, ii. 158.) At lengthPhtladelphus, after cleansing and repairing thechannel, carried it onward to Andnoe. at the head ofthe Sinus Heroopolites. (Plin. vi. 29. s. 33.) ThePtolemaic canal, however, suffered the fate of itspredecessor, and even beforo the reign of Cleopatrahad become useless for navigation. The connectionby w:»ter between Arsinoe and the Nile was renewedby Trajan, a. d. 106; but his engineers altered thedirection of the cutting. They brought the streamfrom a higher pnrt of the river, in order that thecurrent mfcht run into, instead of from, the RedSea, and that the intervening sandy tracts might beirricated by fresh instead of partially salt water.The canal of Trajan accordingly began at Babylon,on the eastern bank of the Nile, opposite Memphis,and. passing by Hel'iopolis, Scenae Veteranorum, He-roopolis, and Serapion, entered the Red Sea about20 miles S. of Arsinoe, at a town called Klysmon,from the locks in its neighbourhood. The work ofTrajan was either more carefully preserved than thatof the Mace Ionian and Persian kings of Aegypt badbeen, or, if like them, it fell into decay, it was re-] tired and reopened by the Mahommedan conquerorsof the country. For, seven centuries after Trajan'sdeo'oe, we read of Christian pilgrims sailing alonghis canal on their route from England to Palestine.(I)icueil, de Mensur. Orbit, vi. ed Letronne.) 2. The Canopic canal (tj Kavw&a^ 8iw^u{, Strab.xvii. p. 800; Strph. B. *. r.) connected the city ofCanopus with Alexandreia and the lake Mareotis.Its banks were covered with the country houses andgardens of the wealthy Alexandrians, and formed akind of water suburb to both the Aegyptian andMacedonian cities. [Canoi'US.] Physical Character of the Nile. The civilisation of all countries is directly influ­enced by their rivers, and in none more so than inAe^vpt. which has been truly called the gift of theNile* (Herod, ii. 5; Strab. xi. p. 493.) To it*stream the land owed not only its peculiar cultiva­tion, but its existence also. Without it the Libyanwaste would have extended to the shores of theRed Sea. The limestone which lies under thesoil of Aegypt, the sands which bound it to E. andW., were rendered by the deposits of the river fitfor the habitation of man, The Delta, indeed, wasabsolutely created by the Nile, Its periodical floodsat first narrowed a bay of the Mediterranean into anestuary, and next filled up the estuary with a plainof teeming alluvial soil. The religion, and many ofthe peculiar institutions of Aegypt, are derived fromits river; and its physical characteristics have, inall ages, attracted the attention of historians andgeographers. Its characteristics may be considered under theheads of (1) its deposits; (2) the quality of itswaters; and (3) its periodical inundations. (I.) Its deposits.— Borings made in the Delta tothe depth of 45 feet, have shown that the soil con­sists ot vegetable matter and an earthy deposit, such as the Nile now brings down. The ingmiicc*_* *Athis deposit are clay, time, and siliceous *and. bittheir proportion is affected by the soil over wluch ti*river flows. Calcareous and argillaceous marterabound in the neighbourhood of Cairo and tieDelta; silex preponderates in the granitic and *aod-stone districts of Upper Aegypt. The amount Jthis deposit corresponds generally to the slope of thebanks and the distance from the river. In L^wtfNubia and Upper Aegypt alluvial cliffs are fanned itthe height of 40 feet; in Middle Aegypt they v.kto 30; at the point of the Delta to about eights**.The earthy matter is deposited in a convex forw;the larger quantity lying close to the stream, lassmaller at the verge of the inundation. As a cld.-*-quence of this fall from the banks towards the de-en,the limit to which the inundation reaches U slowly ex-extending itself; but as the Kile raises its own bee a*well as its banks,their relative proportion is preserred.The deposit of the Nile is found to consist «sf(l)clay, constituting 48 in 100 parts; (2) carbarn, 9parts; (3) carbonate of lime 18 parta, and 4 part* afcarbonate of magnesia, besides portions of Mlicia a&Joxide of iron. These form a compost so rich, that Urnland on which they are [>erennia]ly deposited reqooasno other manure, and produces without further no­vation successive harvests of corn. (Albert, ii. 41,42;Plin. xviii. 19. s. 21.) (2.) The quality of its vaters.—The water itseifis not less important to Aegypt than the ingredient*which it precipitates or holds in solution. Exovatsome short streams in the Arabian bills, torreaU atone season and dry at another, the Nile t» the aaryriver in Aegypt. Natural springs do not exi< inthe upper country; and the wells of the I>elta a&rdonly a turbid and brackish fluid. The river m ac­cordingly the single resource of the inhabitants; andthe frequent ablutions enjoined by their religionrendered a copious supply of water more than arii-narily important to them. Between its highest andlowest periods, the water of the Nile is dear. Waamlowest, it is feculent (Athen. ii. 42); and at thebeginning of the inundation is covered with a grcea-ish vegetable matter, that is said to catue erup­tive disease. But even when most turbid, it u &4unwholesome, and is always capable of filtraiaai.Tho water in its medium state was pure and de­licious to the taste. The Persian kirvs, after theconquest of Aegypt, imported it fur their own draw­ing to Susa and r>batana (Athen. ii. 54, 67); aaJthe emperor Pescennius Niger replied to hu solu.frVdemand for wine, "Have yon not the water of \imNile." (Spartian. ap. August Hist, Script. IV*-cenn. Niger, c. 7.) These changes in the hac andquality of the water were ascribed to the overtl •«» j*»of the Nubian lakes, or to the passage of the ttrvaeiover various strata. But until the channel* *** thtWhite and Blue Rivers have been explored t*» thasrsources, we must be content to remain ignorant ifthe real causes of these phenomena. (3.) Its periodical inundations* — The naaaaaof the inundation early attracted the car»»ii* «/ancient ob>ervers; and various tbewriea wrrr •£#-vised to account for them. It was belwwd t<- trio*from the melting of the snow on the Abeaaiaaaain»nntain< (Schol. in ApolL KhoA* it. S69; Eanm.Helen, init.); and Herodotus rejects this im­position, because, as he conceived, although err-t*-ously, that snow was unknown in Aethiorxa (u. J2VIt was ascril>cd to the Etesian winds, which. W -wiz*from the N. in summer, force back the waaso