OCR Output 274 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the principal members of the senate. These welcomexxxviii. depute announced the recent and momentous secretof the emperor's decease: reported, or perhaps in­vented, his dying choice of the best beloved and mostdeserving of his nephews, and conjured" Justin toprevent the disorders of the multitude, if they shouldperceive, with the return of light, that they were leftwithout a master. After composing his countenanceto surprise, sorrow, and decent modesty, Justin, bythe advice of his wife Sophia, submitted to the au­thority of the senate. He was conducted with speedand silence to the palace; the guards saluted theirnew sovereign, and the martial and religious rites ofhis coronation were diligently accomplished. By thehands of the proper officers he was invested with theImperial garments, the red buskins, white tunic, andpurple robe. A fortunate soldier, whom he instantlypromoted to the rank of tribune, encircled his neckwith a military collar: four robust youths exaltedhim on a shield; he stood firm and erect to receivethe adoration of his subjects; and their choice wassanctified by the benediction of the patriarch, whoimposed the diadem on the head of an orthodoxReign of prince. The hippodrome was already filled with, in-orUthe numerable multitudes; and no sooner did the em-A.UDf 565 peror appear on his throne, than the voices of the Nov. is— blue and the green factions were confounded in thea. D.574, 11 r - ti 1 i-iT- December, same loyal acclamations. In the speeches which Justin addressed to the senate and people, he promised tocorrect the abuses which had disgraced the age of hispredecessor, displayed the maxims of a just and be-Hiscon. neficent government, and declared, that on the ap-a. d. 566, proaching calends of January, he would revive in hisJanuary 1. (Jwn person tne name and liberality of a Roman con­sul. The immediate discharge of his uncle's debtsexhibited a solid pledge of his faith and generosity;a train of porters laden with bags of gold advanced