OCR Output VERULAMIUXI. 1281 VESONTIO. inrient site is still occupied by the modern town ofVtroli, wliich retains also some portions of theancirot walls in the polygonal or Cyclopean style.(Wrstpbal, Rim. Kamp. p. 87; Abeken, MitttUitulun, p. 147.) [E. H. B.J VERULAMlfJM. [VKBOLAMiirM.] VEHUB1UM (Ofopoupioy, Ptol. >L 5. § 7), atown in the X. part of Lusitania, perhaps S. Vincentit Bora. [T. U. D.] VKASI'E (Oilnramrn, Ptol. vi. 2. § 12), alewn in Media Atropatene, perhaps the Bame as thefrarat Catbin. [V.] VESCELIA, a town of the Oretani in Hispaniarimcaneiisis (Liv. xxxv. 22), perhaps Vilchct.[lien, ii. pL i. p. 413.) [T. H. D.] \ KSCELLIUM or VERCELHUM, a town of thefiirjini, of uncertain site. Ita name is mentioned byLiry (xxiii. 37) as having been recovered by thejrartor M. Valerius, after it had revolted to the Car-luynnians. The reading in Livy is very uncertain,■ut Piiny also mentions the Vescellani among theMunicipal communities of the Hirpini. (1'iin. iii.I s. 16.) [E. H. B.] VtSCl KAVENT1A (OoWmr, Ptol. ii. 4. § II),i tuwn iu Hispania Bactica, between Singili andbtigi. (PUn. iii. 1. a 3.) [T. H D.] VKSCIA (£(A. Vescinus), a city of Latium, inht moat extended sense of that name, but ori-iaaily a city of the Ausones, situated in a plain to1* S. of the Liris (Garigliano). Livy in one pas-«e tells us distinctly that the Ausones had threeium, Aosona, Minturnae, and Vescia, all of which'«e betrayed into the hands of the Romans by aaity within their walls, and the inhabitants put toI* sword in B. c. 314. (Liv. ix. 25.) The namef Vearia is mentioned also about 25 years before1 affording shelter to the remains of tlie Latinm>y defeated by the consols Manlius and Deciusi a.0. 340. (Id. viii. 11.) But after the cap-jj* of the city in 314, no mention of it again-vans, and it is probable that it never recovered"» that calamity. Minturnae indeed is theair one of these three cities which again appearsi history; but the "ager Vescinus" is repeatedlywutioned (Liv. x. 20, 21, 31), and would seem'hire extended from the banks of the Liris i far as the extreme point of the ridge of MountUsicus. The Roman colony of Sinuessa, whichas situated just where that ridge abuts upon thea, is expressly said to have been planted " in saltuescina" (Liv. x. 21.) But all trace of the cityems to hare been lost. Pliny does not evennice the name among the extinct cities of Latium ii Campaaia, and we are wholly without a clue tos precise situation. [E. H. B.] \ KSCITANIA, a district in Spain mentionedJy ty Pliny (iii. 3. s. 4). [Osca.] [T. H. D.] VESDIANTIL [Vkdumtil] VESERIS, a river of Campania, the name of which known oaJy in connection with the great battleu;bt with the Latins by T. Manlius Torqnatus and l>rcius Mua, is. c. 340. That battle is describedLivy as having been fought "haud procnl ra-nbiis Veauvii montia, qua via ad Veserim ferebat"iii. 8), an expression which would leave us inbt whether Veseris was the name of a town or a river. In another passage he refers to the samet'.le as having been fought "ad Veseriin " (x. 28);»i Cicero also twice notices it as "pugna ad Ve-ritn" or " apod Veserim." (Cic. de Fin. i. 7, def. iii. 31.) Valerius Maxim us uses the latter VuL. II. phrase (vi. 4. § 1). The only author whose ex­pressions are free from ambiguity is Aurcliu* Vic­tor, who distinctly speaks of that celebrated battleas having been fought "apud Veserim fluvium"(<fe Vvr. III. 28), and adds that the Romans hadpitched their camp on its banks (" positis apud Ve-serim fluvium castris," lb. 26). The authority ofVictor is not indeed worth much on points of detail,but there is no reason to reject it in this instance, asit is certainly not at variance with the phrases ofLiry and Cicero. The Veseris was probably a smallstream, and is not mentioned on any other occasion,or by any geographer, so that it is wholly impossiblenow to identify it. [E. H. B.] VESIO'NICA, a town of Umbria mentioned onlyby Pliny, who names the Vesionicatea among themunicipal communities of that country. (Plin. iii.14. s. 19.) It is supposed to be represented byCivitelta di JBenezzone, in the upper valley of theTiber, 7 miles SE. of Perugia. (Oliver. Ittil. p.627.) [E. H. B.] VESO'NTIO (Oi)i<roVrioi<. Ptol. ii. 9. §21:Baancon), in Gallia, the chief city of the Sequani.The name occurs in Dion Cassius (xxxviii. 34, Ixiii.24), where Reimarus has written Mtoovriawa for theMSS. reading Qvwomiwva, without any reason. InAusonius (Gratiarum Act.) the form Visontio oc­curs, and he speaks of a "municipalis schola " in theplace. The orthography of the wurd varied, as wemight expect; and other forms occur in Ammianus.D'Anville says that the name is Vesant on a mile­stone which bears the name of Trajan, and was foundat Mandeure [EpAMAaDtnuuituM, in which articlethe name is incorrectly printed Vesont]. When Caesar (n. c. 58) was marching throughthe country of the Sequani towards the German kingArioristus, he heard that the German was intendingto occupy Vesontio, but Caesar got there before him{/:. G. i. 38.) He describes the town as nearlysurrounded by the Doubt [Dews], and he saysthat the part which was not surrounded by theriver was only 600 Roman feet wide. This neck ofland was filled by an eminence, the base of which oneach sido was washed by the river. There was awall along this neck of land, which made it a strongfortress, and the wall connected the heights with thetown. Caesar's description is exact except as to thewidth of the neck of land, which D'Anville says isabout 1500 Roman feet; and accordingly eitherCaesar was mistaken, or there is an error in his textin the numerals, which is always a possible thing.Vesontio when Caesar took it was well supplied witheverything for war, and its position made it a strongplace. Caesar set out from Vesontio to fight theGerman king, whom he defeated in the plain betweenthe Vusffet and the Rhine. The battle-field wasonly 5 miles from the Rhine (it. G. i. 53, in whichpassage the true reading is " milia pasuum... circiterquinque," not "quinquaginta.'') In the winter ofn. c. 58—57 Caesar quartered his men among tiieSequani, and we may assume that Vesontio was ok-iof the places where he fixed bis troops. Vesontio has been several times sacked and de­stroyed by Alemanni, by liuns, and others. It is atown built on the ruins of former towns. The groundhas been raised above 20 feet, and where it hasbeen dug into, Roman remains, medals, and otherantiquities have been discovered. The modern town of Bttancom consists of twoparts. The npper town, once called La Yilh. is builton Die peninsula, and the citadel stands on the steep 4 *