OCR Output SARUATIA. SARMATIA. 915 mb Wag inordinate. He carries it as Tar asi country of the Bast am ae.Tbe German; of Tacitus is bounded on the east'•i Siraiatae and Daci. The Sarmatae here arepolitico of a comparatirely smtill area between1 Ansae and TLeiss, and on the boundaries of•wry, Moldavia, and Gallicia. But they arertbmt more. They are the type of a large* wUtly ipread both eastward and northward;lu nf equal value with that of the Germani.o, obrioosr/, subtracts something from the vastail of the Germania of Strabo (which nearlylot Northern Europe); but not enough. The!»o of the Baatarnae, Peucini, Venedi, and Finni,nil in epan question. [Sctthia.]rh» prepares us for something more systematic,1 it ii a Ptolemy that we find it The Sarma-t uf Ptolemy fall into (1) the European, andthe Asiatic L SABMATIA EUROPAEA. V western boundary is the Vistula; the nor-t the Baltic, aa far as the Vmedic gulf andnet of unknown country; the southern, thebut of the Jazygea Metanastae and Dacia; thewa, the isthmus of the Crimea, and the Don.i urns as parts of Poland and Gallicia, Li­ma, IMonia, and Western Russia. It in-l» tbe finni (probably a part only), and thetti. vbo are Scythians to nomine ('AAoupoi**). It includes the Baatarnae, the Peucini,am especially the Venedi. It also includes■on pit Juygee, as opposed to the Jazygeauutae, who form a small section by them-n. All these, with the exception of the Finni,npedally stated to be the great nations of Sar­is (ta which add the Roxolani and Hamaxobii),} ysei to the smaller ones.(tile greater nations of Samatia Europaea, theera and Baatarnae of Ptolemy are placed further 0 lata the Peucini and Bastamue of his pre-wvr By later writers they are rarely mentioned.5> ot.j Neither are the Jazygea, who areiuTcra Sarmatae of Strain. These, alongil* Sdxobmi, lay along the whole aide ({Anr•Knpi*) of the Maeotis, say in Kherson, *w sol Ekatermoslae. [RoxoLArn.] Ha-axl is merely a descriptive term. It probablytpplied to some Scythian population. Pliny4 Hamaxobii aut Aorai, a fact of which fur-Mice is taken below. The Alauni, notwith-Ittr, an 'AAoiVor Spot, and other coraplica-. on scarcely be other than the Alani of Can-i; tba iAtrftwres "AAowroi of the PeriegesiaW) are undoubted Scythians. Nestor, indeed,■ peculation otherwise unknown, called E7tezi,a being non-radical, which is placed on theIt does not, however, remove the difficulty.L* Peorini were beat known aa the occupants of'tbt Blsnds at the mouth of the Danube.'nay alas, however, have extended far intovntta. So manifold are the changes that a 1 with Sannattan or Scythian inflexion canTi, that it is not improbable that Peuc-ini * the modern words Budjack and Best, intibia. The following are the actual formai the name of the />ats-inacka, exactly in thetry of the/Vae-ini, undergoes in the mediaevalftrcaatine writers, nerrfirajcrroi, Pecenatici,Piacenates, Postinagi, Peczenjezi (in■ac), Pttaa, Ptcinei (the nearest approach to Peucini.) Then, in the direction of Budziak andBessi, BeJinaJSje, Petscknakije, /tetna-vollr (inNorse), Bisseni and Bessi, (Zeuss, Die Deutschen,<fc.s. vv. Pecinaci and Cumani). The Patzinaks wereScythians, who cannot be shown to be of recentorigin in Europe. They may, then, have been theactual descendants of the Peucini; though thia isnot necessary, for they may have been a foreignpeople who, on reaching the country of the Peuc­ini. took the name; in such a case being Peuc-miin the way that an Englishman is a Briton, i.e. notat alt. The difference between the Peucini andBastaxnae was nominal. Perhaps the latter wereMoldavian rather than Bessarahian. The Atmnniand Siaones of Strabo were Bastaraae. The geography of the minor nations is moreobscure, the arrangement of Ptolemy being some­what artificial. lie traces them in two parallelcolumns, from north to south, beginning, in bothcases with the country of the Venedi, and takingthe eastern bank of the Vistula first. The firstname on this list is that of the Gythonea, south ofthe Venedi. It is not to be understood by this thatthe Venedi lay between the Gythonea and the Baltic,so as to make the latter an inland people, but simplythat the Venedi of the parts about Memel lay northof the Gythones of the parts about Elbing. Neithercan thia people be separated from the Guttones andAestyii, i. e. the populations of the amber country,or East Prussia. The Finni succeed (TiBurfs tfoa ♦hroi). _It isnot likely that these Finns (if Finns of Finland) canhave laid due south of East Prussia; though notimpossible. They were, probably, on the east. The Bulanes (Sulone* ?), with the Phrugun-dionea to the south, and the Avareni at the headof the Vistula, bring us to the Dacian frontier.The details here are all conjectural. Zeuss hasidentified the Bulanes with the Borani of Zosimus,who, along with the Goths, the Carpi, and theUrugundi, attacked the empire under Gallua. InNestor a population called 5uf-iczi occupies a localitybetween the Dnieper and Dniester: but thia is toofar east. In Livonia, Henry the Lett gives pro­minence to the nation of the Selones, a likelier iden­tification. For Bulanes (supposing this to be the truerreading) the word Polyane gives us the most plau­sible signification. Nestor uses it frequently. It iaPole, primarily meaning occupants of plains.Wherever, then, there were plains they might hePoli/ane; and Nestor actually mentions two divi­sions of them; the Lekhs, or Poles of the Vistula,and the Polyane of the Dnieper. The Phrugundiones of Ptolemy have alwayabeen a crux geographica. Name for name, theyare so like Burgundiones as to hare auggested theidea of a migration from Poland to Burgundy.Then there are the Urugundi and Burgundi ofthe Byzantine writers (see Zeuss, s. vv. Borani, Uru­gundi), with whom the Ptolemaean population ia,probably, identical. The writer who is unwilling toassume migrations unnecessarily will aak whetherthe several Burgundys may not be explained on theprinciple suggested l>y the word J'olyane, L c.whether the word may not be the name of morethan one locality of the same physical conditions.Probably, thia is the case. In the German, andalso in the Slavonic languages, the word Fairguni,Fergund, Vergunt, Firgunda, Virgunndin, andhu% range, forest, elevated 3H 2