OCR Output An. 29.] 555 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. by way of reproach, that he had caused*her father and her brother to be slain. Andwhen he took this injury very unkindly, andwas ready to use violence to her, in a pre­cipitate manner, the king's sister Salome,observing that he was more than ordinarilydisturbed, sent in to the king his cup-bearer,who had been prepared long beforehand forsuch a design; and bade him tell the king,how Mariamne had persuaded him to givehis assistance in preparing a love potionfor him: and if he appeared to be greatlyconcerned, and should ask, what that lovepotion was? to tell him, that she had thepotion; and that he was desired only to giveit him. But that in case he did not appearto be much concerned at this potion, to letthe thing drop; and that if he did so, noharm should thereby come to him. Whenshe had given him these instructions, shesent him in at this time to make such aspeech. So he went in, after a composedmanner, to gain credit to what he shouldsay; and yet somewhat hastily; and said,that Mariamne had given him presents, andpersuaded him to give him a love potion.And when this moved the king, he said,that this love potion was a composition thatshe had given him; whose effects he did notknow; which was the reason of his resolvingto give him this information, as the safestcourse he could take, both for himself andfor the king. When Herod heard what hesaid, and was in an ill disposition before,his indignation grew more violent; and heordered that eunuch of Mariamne's, whowas most faithful to her, to be brought to thetorture, about this potion; as well knowingit was not possible that any thing could bedone without him. And when the man wasunder the utmost agonies, he could say no­thing concerning the thing he was torturedabout; but so far he knew, that Mariamne'shatred against him was occasioned by some­what that Sohemus had said to her. Nowas he was saying this, Herod cried out aloud,and said, that Sohemus, who had been atall other times most faithful to him and tohis government, would not have betrayed what injunctions he had given him, unlesshe had had a nearer conversation than ordi­nary with Mariamne. So he gave order thatSohemus should be seized on, and slain im­mediately. But he allowed his wife to takeher trial; and he assembled those that weremost faithful to him; and laid an elaborateaccusation against her, for this love potion,and composition; which had been chargedupon her by way of calumny. However, hekept no temper in what he said, and was intoo great a passion for judging well aboutthis matter. Accordingly when the court wasat length satisfied that he was so resolved,they passed the sentence of death upon her.But when the sentence was passed, thistemper was suggested by himself, and bysome others of the court; that she should notbe thus hastily put to death; but be laid inprison in one of the fortresses belonging tothe kingdom. Salome and her party, how­ever, laboured hard to have the woman putto death; and they prevailed with the kingto do so, and advised this out of caution,lest the multitude should be tumultuous, ifshe were suffered to live. And thus wasMariamne led to execution. When Alexandra observed how thingswent, and that there were small hopes thatshe should escape the like treatment fromHerod, she changed her behaviour, to quitethe reverse of what might have been ex­pected from her former boldness; and thisafter a very indecent manner. For out ofher desire to shew how entirely ignorant shewas of the crimes laid against Mariamne,she leaped out of her place, and approachedher daughter in the hearing of all the peo­ple; and cried out, that she had been an illwoman, and ungrateful to her husband; andthat her punishment came justly upon her,for her insolent behaviour; for that she hadnot made proper returns to him who hadbeen their common benefactor. And whenshe had for some time acted after this hypo­critical manner, and been so outrageous asto tear her hair; this indecent and dissem­bling behaviour, as was to be expected, wasgreatly condemned by the rest of the spec­ * Whereas Mariamne is here represented as reproaching Herod with the murder of her father Alexander, as well as her brother Aristobulus: while it was her grandfather Hyrcanus, and not her father Alexander, whom he caused voL. I.—NOS. 47 & 48. to be slain (as Josephus himself informs us, chap. 6.) wemust either take Zonaras's reading, which is here grand­father rightly; or else we must, as before, chap. 1. allow aslip of Josephus's pen or memory, in the place before ub4R