OCR Output 146 ROMAN EMPIRE. command of provinces and armies. Their fraternalunion doubled the force and reputation of the Comneni,and their ancient nobility was illustrated by the mar足riage of the two brothers with a captive princess of Bul足garia, and the daughter of a patrician, wh9 had obtainedthe name of Charon from the number of enemies whomhe had sent to the infernal shades. The soldiers hadserved with reluctant loyalty a series of effeminate mas足ters; the elevation of Michael VI. was a personal insultto the more deserving generals; and their discontentwas inflamed by the parsimony of the emperor and theinsolence of the eunuchs. They secretly assembled inthe sanctuary of St. Sophia, and the votes of the militarysynod would have been unanimous in favour of the oldand valiant Catacalon, if the patriotism or modesty ofthe veteran had not suggested the importance of birthas well as merit in the choice of a sovereign. IsaacComnenus was approved by general consent, and theassociates separated without delay to meet in the plainsof Phrygia at the head of their respective squadrons anddetachments. The cause of Michael was defended in asingle battle by the mercenaries of the imperial guard,who were aliens to the public interest, and animatedonly by a principle of honour and gratitude. After theirdefeat, the fears of the emperor solicited a treaty, whichwas almost accepted by the moderation "of the Comne-nian. But the former was betrayed by his ambassadors,and the latter was prevented by his friends. The soli足tary Michael submitted to the voice of the people; thepatriarch annulled their oath of allegiance; and as heshaved the head of the royal monk, congratulated hisbeneficial exchange of temporal royalty for the kingdomof heaven: an exchange, however, which the priest onhis own account, would probably have declined. Bythe hands of the same patriarch, Isaac Comnenus wassolemnly crowned: the sword which he inscribed on hiscorns, might be an offensive symbol, if it implied his