OCR Output PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 245 For the sentiments and moral lessons which they convey, the meed of praisemust be divided between them. Both are fruitful in instruction. The moraltaste of both is pure and elevated. And yet they are very unlike: Livy's,sentiments appear to be drawn from books; Tacitus' are obviously the fruitof his own observation and meditation. Tacitus is original and just in hisreflections; Livy is varied and beautiful. Livy is the more genial spirit jTacitus, the more sagacious and profound. In the delineation of character, Tacitus is greatly the superior. The char足acters of Livy want individuality. We are not made acquainted with theirdistinctive features. Still less do we see the very bottom of their hearts.In Tacitus every character stands out distinctly from the surrounding mass,wears his own face, and acts out his own peculiar motives and impulses.His heroes are as diverse as we know heroes are in nature; and in the wholeseries of tyrants and monsters, whose history he writes, the reader wouldno more confound their characters, than a contemporary and familiar ac足quaintance would have mistaken their persons. Tacitus draws characters asShakspeare does in his dramas; Livy paints them too much like the sophist inhis declamations. Livy places before us the statues of heroes and gods;Tacitus conducts us through the crowd of living men. Livy is little more than an orator and scholar; Tacitus is also a statesmanand philosopher. Livy is the greater and better writer; Tacitus the greater andbetter man. We admire the former: the latter we reverence. Either mightinspire us with love; but Tacitus only can impress us with awe and fear.Tacitus selects his incidents with chief regard to their truth and intrinsicvalue; Livy, with a constant, not to say single, eye to their literary beautyand picturesque effect. Livy is wholly a Roman. To him, the Roman empireis the world. If he loved liberty, it was only Roman liberty. If he. extolledthe military skill and prowess of Hannibal, it was only that he might exaltRome herself, with her armies and commanders, to so much the higherglory, as their conquerors. Tacitus is a man and reverences the manly vir足tues, wherever he finds them. The best speech he ever wrote is put intothe mouth of a free and noble Briton. He half prefers the simple virtues ofthe barbarous but free and independent Germans, to the splendid vices ofthe cultivated but degenerate Romans. To him Arminius is none the lessa hero for being a German; and he complains (Ann. 2, 88), that the Greeksembellished nothing but their own story, while the Romans, absorbed in theveneration of antiquity, did injustice alike to all contemporary achievements.In a word, Livy was born to compose the history of the rise and gioryof the Roman empire; Tacitus of its decline and fall. It was the voeationof Livy to compose a great prose epic in honor of his country. It was themission of Tacitus to write a magnificent historical tragedy for the instruc足tion and warning of mankind. 24*