OCR Output 278 WARS OF THE JEW9. Book I. 5. Now Herod was an active man, and soon found propermaterials for his active spirit to work upon. As therefore hefound that Hezekias, the head of the robbers, ran over the neigh­bouring parts of Syria with a great band of men, he caught himand slew him, and many more of the robbers with him ; whichexploit was chiefly grateful to the Syrians, insomuch that hymnswere sung in Herod's commendation, both in the villages and inthe cities, as having procured their quietness, and having pre­served what they possessed to them ; on which occasion he be­came acquainted with Sextus Caesar, a kinsman of the great Cae­sar, and president of Syria. A just emulation of his gloriousactions excited Phasaelus also to imitate him. Accordingly, heprocured the good-will of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, by hisown management of thecity-aiFairs, and did not abuse his powerin any disagreeable manner ; whence it came to pass, that thenation paid Antipater the respects that were due only to a king,and the honours they all yielded him were equal to the honoursdue to an absolute lord; yet did he not abate any part of thatgood-will or fidelity which he owed to Hyrcanus. 6. However, he found it impossible to escape envy in suchhis prosperity ; for the glory of these young men affected evenHyrcanus himself already privately, though he said nothing of itto any body ; but what he principally was grieved at, was thegreat actions of Herod, and that so many messengers came one be­fore another, and informed him of the great reputation he got inall his undertakings. There were also many people in the royalpalace itself, who inflamed his envy at him ; those, I mean, whowere obstructed in their designs by the prudence either of theyoung men, or of Antipater. These men said, that by com­mitting the public affairs to the management of Antipater and ofhis sons, he sat down with nothing but the bare name of a king,without any of its authority; and they asked him, how long hewould so far mistake himself, as to breed up kings against hisown interest ? for that they did not now conceal their governmentof affairs any longer, but were plainly lords of the nation, and hadthrust him out of his authority ; that this was the case when He­rod slew so many men without his giving him any command todo it, either by word of mouth, or by his letter, and this in con­tradiction to the law of the Jews ; who therefore, in case he benot a king, but a private man, still ought to come to his trial, andanswer it to him, and to the laws of his country, which do notpermit any one to be killed, till he hath been condemned in judge­ment. 7. Now XIV. ch. ix. sect. i. and Of the W*r, B. II. eh. xi. sect. 6. and Polyb. B. XVII,P- 72-J- -