OCR Output Ixxxviii A Survey of the History. " vantage; that, when the Sicilians have warred one an-" other down, they may seize the whole island for them-" selves. The great passion of these Athenians is conquest;" they regard no ties of consanguinity ; they aim at acquir-" ing vassals, no matter who. He blames them not; he" can never blame men, who are desirous of command ; but" he must blame such as are ready and willing to put on" their chains. The Athenians have no strength in Sicily," but in the division of its States. Let those States but once" re-unite, and Athenians must get them gone ; and may" depart with a face of success, as if they had united" whom they really wanted to disunite, and had effectuallyk4 re-settled peace, when their latent design was war."—Hetoucheth every topic in a succinct but masterly manner. Hehath recourse often to figures; renders his addresses em-phatical by making his own community speak from hismouth. He applies the first person and the singular numberwith great energy and weight. He useth those figures inin the same manner as Saint Paul does in the Epistle to theRomans. He presseth harmony and cordial re-union amongstthem in a manner best fitted to persuade. The wholespeech, in a word, is a very interesting and persuasive pieceof oratory. The consequence is, a peace is settled in Sicily to generalsatisfaction ; and the Athenian commanders are obliged toreturn to Athens with their squadron, to be punished therefor what they could not possibly prevent. The war continues hot through the remainder of thisbook. The Athenians take their turn in being checked andvanquished. Their attempt on Megara is related at large ;and this piece of narration, is by far the most intricate ofthe kind to be met with in Thucydides. The matter is quitetoo much crowded, when he endeavours to comprehend ina few terms the various incidents of this struggle for Megara,the fluctuation of events, the views and motives of the par­ties engaged. Brasidas at last secures the city, and quite