OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 243 they are in beginning a warfare, so much the more un­relenting, I fear, will prove the fury of their resent­ment when they do begin. Place before your eyesthe islands jEgates and Eryx, the calamities which youunderwent on land and sea, during the space of twenty-four years; nor were your troops then led by this boy,but by his father Hamilcar, another Mars, as those menchoose to call him. But at that time we had not, as wewere bound by treaty, avoided interfering with Taren-tum in Italy, as at present we do not avoid interferingwith Saguntum. Wherefore gods and men united toconquer us, and the question which words could notdetermine, ' Which of the nations had infringed thetreaty?' the issue of the war made known, as an equi­table judge, giving victory to that side on which justicestood. Hannibal is now raising works and towersagainst Carthage; with his battering rams he is shakingthe walls of Carthage. The ruins of Saguntum (oh !that I may prove a false prophet!) will fall on ourheads: and the war commenced against the Saguntinesmust be maintained against the Romans. Some willsay, ' Shall we then deliver up Hannibal?' I am sensi­ble that, with respect to him, my authority is of littleweight, on account of the enmity between me and hisfather. But as I rejoiced at the death of Hamilcar,for this reason, that had he lived, we should now havebeen embroiled in a war with the Romans, so do I hateand detest this youth as a fury and a firebrand kindlingthe like troubles at present. Nor is it my opinion,merely, that he ought to be delivered up, as an expia­tion for the infraction of the treaty, but that, if no onedemanded him, he ought to be conveyed away to theremotest coasts, whence no accounts of him, nor evenhis name, should ever reach us, and where he wouldnot be able to disturb the tranquillity of our state. Itherefore move you to resolve that ambassadors besent instantly to Rome, to make apologies to the senate;others, to order Hannibal to withdraw the troops fromSaguntum, and to deliver up Hannibal himself to theRomans, in conformity to the treaty ; and that a third