OCR Output 428 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. laws of the Lombards, they are the genuine fruit of thereason of the barbarians, who never admitted the bishopsof Italy to a seat in their legislative councils. But thesuccession of their kings is marked with virtue and abi-rlity; the troubled series of their annals is adorned withfair intervals of peace, order, and domestic happiness;and the Italians enjoyed a milder and more equitable go­vernment, than any of the other kingdoms which hadbeen founded on the ruins of the western empire.1Misery Amidst the arms of the Lombards, and under thedes-of Rome. p0f-ism 0f ^e Gree]lSj we again inquire into the fate ofRome,1" which had reached, about the close of the sixthcentury, the lowest period of her depression. By theremoval of the seat of empire, and the successive loss ofthe provinces, the sources of public and private opulencewere exhausted; the lofty tree, under whose shade thenations of the earth had reposed, was deprived of its leavesand branches, and the sapless trunk was left to wither onthe ground. The ministers of command, and the mes­sengers of victory, no longer met on the Appian or Fla-minian way; and the hostile approach of the Lombardswas often felt and continually feared. The inhabitantsof a potent and peaceful capital, who visit without ananxious thought the garden of the adjacent country, willfaintly picture in their fancy the distress of the Romans;they shut or opened their gates with a trembling hand,beheld from the. walls the flames of their houses, andheard the lamentations of their brethren, who were cou­pled together like dogs, and dragged away into distantslavery beyond, the sea and the mountains. 'Such inces­sant alarms must annihilate the pleasures and interruptthe labours of a rural life; and the Campagna of Romewas speedily reduced to the state of a dreary wilderness, 1 Read the history of I'anl Warnefrid: particularly lib. 3. e. 16. Baronins rejectsthe praise, which appears to contradict the invectives of pope Gregory the Great;but Muratori (Annnli d'ltalia, tom. 5. p. 217.) presumes to insinuate that the saintmay have magnified the faults of Arians and enemies. 1° The passages of the homilies of Gregory, which represent the miserable state ofthe city and country, are transcribed in the Annals of Baronius, A. D. 590. no. 16.A. D.595. no. 2, &o. &c.