OCR Output CHAP. XLII.j OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. one hundred and twenty thousand of the subjects ofJustinian. In a subsequent inroad they pierced the wallof the Thracian Chersonesus, extirpated the habitationsand the inhabitants, boldly traversed the Hellespont, andreturned to their companions, laden with the spoils ofAsia. Another party, which seemed a multitude in theeyes of the Romans, penetrated, without opposition,from the straits of Thermopylas to the isthmus of Co­rinth; and the last ruin of Greece has appeared an ob­ject too minute for the attention of history. The workswhich the emperor raised for the protection, but at theexpense of his subjects, served only to disclose the weak­ness of some neglected part; and the walls, which, byflattery, had been deemed impregnable, were either de­serted by the garrison, or scaled by the barbarians. Threethousand Sclavonians, who insolently divided themselvesinto two bands, discovered the weakness and misery ofa triumphant reign. They passed the Danube and theHebrus, vanquished the Roman generals who dared tooppose their progress, and plundered, with impunity,the cities of Illyricum and Thrace, each o£ which hadarms and numbers to overwhelm their contemptible as­sailants. Whatever praise the boldness of the Sclavo­nians may deserve, it is sullied by the wanton and deli­berate cruelty which they are accused of exercising ontheir prisoners. Without distinction of rank, or age,or sex, the captives were impaled or flayed alive, or sus­pended between four posts, and beaten with clubs tillthey expired, or inclosed in some spacious building, andleft to perish in the flames with the spoil and cattlewhich might impede the march of these savage victors."Perhaps a more impartial narrative would reduce thenumber, and qualify the nature, of these horrid acts;and they might sometimes be excused by the cruel laws "The cruelties of the Sclavonians are related or magnified by Procopius. (Goth.lib. 3. o. 29. 38.) For their mild and liberal behaviour to their prisoners, we mayappeal to the authority, somewhat more reecut, of the emperor Maurice. (Stratagem,lib. 2.C.5.)