OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 135 tion-system, which moreover was long ago given up (ii. 329),was at length officially recognized, but unhappily they wereonly adopted when it had already deprived the state in sub­stance of its domanial possessions. While the Eoman aris­tocracy thus took care of itself and got whatever occupiedland was still in its hands converted into its own property,it at the same time pacified the Italian allies, not indeed byconferring on them the property of the Latin domain-landwhich they and more especially their municipal aristocracyenjoyed, but by preserving unimpaired the rights in rela­tion to it guaranteed to them by their charters. The oppo­site party was in the unfortunate position, that in the mostimportant material questions the interests of the Italiansran diametrically counter to those of the opposition in thecapital; in fact the Italians entered into a species of leaguewith the Roman government, and sought and found protec­tion from the senate against the extravagant designs ofvarious Eoman demagogue^. While the restered government wa$ thu$ dareful thoroughly The proleta-to eradicate the germjjl of imprevement which existed in the riate m^Gracchan constitution, it remained completely powerless in e<l"estrla" . i i order under presence ef the hostile pewer$ that had been, not for the tne restora-general weal, aroused by Gracchu$. The proletariate of the tion.capital continued to have a recognized title to aliment; thesenate likewise acquiesced in the selection of the jurymenfrom the mercantile order, repugnant though this yoke wasto the better and prouder portion of the aristocracy. Thefetters which the aristocracy wore did not beseem its dignity;but we do not find that it seriously set itself to get rid ofthem. The law of Marcus JEmilius Scaurus in 632, which 122.at least enforced the constitutional restrictions on the suf­frage of freedmen, was for long the only attempt—and that avery tame one—on the part of the senatorial governmentonce more to restrain their mob-tyrants. The proposal,which the consul Quintus Caepio seventeen years after theintroduction of the equestrian courts (648) brought in for 106.again intrusting the judicia to senatorial jurymen, showedwhat the government wished; but showed also how littleit could do, when the question was one not of squander­ing domains but of carrying a measure in the face of aninfluential order. It broke down.* The government was not * This is apparent, as is well known, from the farther course of events. Inopposition to this "view stress has been laid on the fact, that in Valerius Maxi- '