OCR Output THE HISTORY B o o K on the latter of whom they repofed by far the. _*- . greater part of their hopes j nor did he difappointY.R. 163. their expectations, but gave a convincing proof thatB. c. 4*9.the Roman commonwealth was more indebted forits power to its generals, than to its troops. March­ing to Circeii, he firft expelled the Roman colon-ifts from thence, and delivered the city, after re-ftoring it to freedom, into the hands of the Vol-fcians: turning thence acrofs the country towardsthe Latine road, he deprived the Romans of theirlate acquifitions, Satricum, Longula, Polufca, andCorioli. He then retook Lavinium, and afterwardstook Corbio, Vitellia, Trebia, Lavici, and Pedum,one after another. From Pedum, laftly, he led hisforces towards the city, and pitching his camp at theCluilian trenches, five miles from the city, fent fromthence parties to ravage the lands of the Romans jappointing perfons among the plunderers, to takecare that the lands of the patricians fhould be leftunmolefted; either becaufe his anger was levelledprincipally againft the pkbeians, or with the de-fign of caufing thereby a difienfion between the pa­tricians and commons; which would have been theconfequence, fo powerfully did the tribunes, bytheir inveclives againft the patricians, excite therefentment of the commons, which was but tooviolent before, but that, however full their mindswere of mutual diftruft and rancour, their dread ofa foreign enemy, the ftrongeft tie of concord, obligedthem to unite: in one point only they difagreed; thefenate and confuls placing their hopes entirely inY. R.166. arms, the commons preferring all other meafures toB. €.486. wan gy tjiis time, Spurius Nautius and Sextus Furius were confuls. While they were employedin reviewing the legions, and pofting troops on thewalls, and in other places, where it was thoughtproper to fix guards, and watches, a vaft multitudeof people afiembling, and infifting on peace, terrifiedthem, at firft, by their feditious clamours, and, atlength, compelled them to afiemble the fenate, and there