OCR Output 144 [BOOK V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. so far, she said, she had been assured bythose divine miracles of which she had beeninformed. So these spies acknowledged thatthey owed her thanks for what she had donealready, and withal swore to requite her kind­ness not only in words, but in deeds; but theygave her this advice, that when she shouldperceive that the city was about to be taken,she should put her goods and all her family,by way of security, in her inn; and hang outscarlet threads before her doors or windows,that the commander of the Hebrews mightknow her house, and take care to do her noharm. "For,"' said they, "we will inform himof this matter, because of the concern thouhast had to preserve us; but if any of thyfamily fall in the battle, do not blame us; andwe beseech that God by whom we have sworn,not then to be displeased with us, as thoughwe had broken our oaths." So these men,when they had made this agreement, wentaway; letting themselves down by a ropefrom the wall, and escaped; and came andtold their own people whatsoever they haddone in their journey to this city. Joshuaalso told Eleazar the high-priest, and thesenate, what the spies had sworn to Rahab,who confirmed what had been sworn. Now while Joshua, the commander, was infear about their passing over Jordan, for theriver ran with a strong current, and could notbe passed over with bridges, for there neverhad been bridges laid over it hitherto; andwhile he suspected that if he should attemptto make a bridge, the enemies would notafford him time to perfect it; and ferry boatsthey had none; God promised so to disposeof the river that they might pass over it, and(hat by taking away the main part of its wa­ters. So Joshua, after two days, caused thearmy and the whole multitude to pass over inthe following manner:—The priests went first,having the ark with them; then went the Le-vites, bearing the tabernacle and the vesselsthat belonged to the sacrifices; after whichthe entire multitude followed, according totheir tribes, having their children and theirwives in the midst of them, as being afraid for them lest they should be borne away by thestream. But as soon as the priests had en­tered the river first, it appeared fordable; thedepth of the water being restrained, and thesand appearing at the bottom, because thecurrent was neither so strong nor so swift, asto carry it away by its force; so they allpassed over the river without fear, finding itto be in the very same state as God had fore­told he would put it in. But the priests stoodstill in the midst of the river, till the multi­tude should be passed over, and should getto the shore in safety; and when all weregone over, the priests came out also and per­mitted the current to run freely as it used todo before. Accordingly, the river, as soonas the Hebrews were gone out of it, aroseagain presently, and came to its proper heightas before.* So the Hebrews went on farther fifty fur­longs, and pitched their camp at the distanceof ten furlongs from Jericho. But Joshuabuilt an altar of those stonest which all theheads of the tribes, at the command of theprophet, had taken out of the river; to beafterward a memorial of the division of thestream, and upon it offered sacrifice to God;and in that place celebrated the passover,and had great plenty of all things which theyhad wanted hitherto. For they reaped thecorn of the Canaanites, which was now ripe;and took other things as prey; for then it wasthat their former food, which was manna,and of which they had eaten forty years,failed them. While the Israelites did this, and the Ca­naanites did not attack them, but remainedquiet within their own walls, Joshua resolvedto besiege them. So on the first day of thefeast of the passover, the priests carried theark, round about which was some part of thearmed men to be a guard to it. These priestswent forward, blowing with their seven trum­pets, and exhorted the army to be of goodcourage, and went round the city with thesenate following them, and when the priestshad only blown with their trumpets,J for theydid nothing more at all, they returned to the * Josh. iv. 10. t It has been a custom in all nations to erect monumentsof stone, in order to preserve the memory of covenants,victories, and other great transactions; and though therewas no inscription upon these stones, yet the number ofthem, and the place where they lay, which was not at all stony, was sufficient to signify some memorable thing,which posterity would not fail to hand down from onegeneration to another. Patrick's Commentary on Joshua,iv. 7. B.| Josh. vi. IS.