OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 23 cution of the war, being provoked at the Sidicinianshaving so often taken arms against them, either asprincipals or auxiliaries. They therefore exerted theirutmost endeavors to raise to the consulship, the fourthtime, Marcus Valerius Corvus, the greatest general ofthat age. [A. U. C. 420. B. C. 332.1 The colleaguejoined with him was Marcus Atilius Regulus; and, lestchance might frustrate their wishes, a request wasmade to the consuls that, without casting lots, thatprovince might be assigned to Corvus. Receiving thevictorious army from the former consuls, he marcheddirectly to Cales, where the war had its rise ; andhaving at the first onset routed the enemy, who weredisheartened by the recollection of the former engage­ment, he directed his operations against the town itself.Such was the ardor of the soldiers, that they wantedto proceed directly up to the walls with ladders, assert­ing that they would quickly scale them ; but that beinga hazardous attempt, Corvus chose to effect his purposeby the labor of his men rather than at the expense ofso much danger to them ; he therefore formed a ram­part, prepared machines, and advanced towers up tothe walls. But an opportunity which accidentally pre­sented itself prevented his having occasion to use them ;for Marcus Fabius, a Roman, who was prisoner there,having broken his chains, while his guards were inat­tentive on a festival day, by. fastening a rope to one ofthe battlements, let himself down among the Romanworks, and persuaded the general to make an assaulton the enemy, while, in consequence of feasting anddrinking, they were disqualified for action. And thusthe Ausonians, together with their city, were capturedwith as little difficulty as they had been defeated inthe field. The booty found there was immense; andthe legions, leaving a garrison at Cales, returned toRome. The consul triumphed, in pursuance of a de­cree of the senate; and, in order that At1lius shouldn.ot be without a share of honor, both the consuls wereordered to lead the troops against the Sidic1nians.But first, in obedience to the senate, they nominated