OCR Output 164 [book V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. not be the general, unless she would go alsoas a general with him, she had indignation atwhat he said, and replied: "Thou, O Barak,deliverest up meanly that authority whichGod hath given thee, into the hand of a wo­man, and I do not reject it." So they col­lected ten thousand men, and pitched theircamp at mount Tabor; where, at the king'scommand, Sisera met them, and pitched hiscamp not far from the enemy. Whereuponthe Israelites, and Barak himself, were soaffrighted at the multitude of those enemies,that they were resolved to march off, had notDeborah retained them, and commandedthem to fight the enemy that very day; forthat they should conquer them, and Godwould be their assistance. So the battle began; and when they werecome to a close fight, there came down fromheaven a great storm, with a vast quantity ofrain and hail; and the wind blew the rain inthe face of the Canaanites, and so darkenedtheir eyes, that their arrows and slings wereof no advantage to them. Nor would thecoldness of the air permit the soldiers to makeuse of their swords. This storm, however,did not so much incommode the Israelites,because it came on their, back; They alsotook such courage upon the apprehensionthat God was assisting them, that they fellupon the very midst of their enemies, and slew a great number of them. So that someof them fell by the Israelites; some fell bytheir own horses, which were put into dis­order; and not a few were killed by theirown chariots. At last Sisera, as soon as hesaw himself beaten, fled away, and came to awoman, whose name was Jael,* a Kenite;who received him, when he desired to beconcealed, and when he asked for somewhatto drink, she gave him sour milk;t of whichhe drank so freely, that he fell asleep. Butwhen he was asleep, Jael took an iron nail,and drove it through his temples with ahammer, into the floor. And when Barakcame a little afterwards, she shewed Siseranailed to the ground.J And thus was thevictory gained by a woman, as Deborah hadforetold. Barak also fought with Jabin, atHazor; and when he met with him, he slewhim. And when the general was fallen,Barak overthrew the city to the foundation,and was the commander of the Israelites forforty years CHAP. VI. OF THE OPPRESSION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE MIDIANITESAND OTHER NATIONS; AND OF THEIR DELIVERANCE BVGIDEON, WHO RULED OVER THE MULTITUDE FOR SEVEN YEARS. N OW when Barak and Deborah weredead, whose deaths, happened about endearing herself to the people, and made her, by thismeans, the fitter instrument to rescue them from oppres­sion. Pool's Annot. B. * She was of the posterity of Hobab, the son of Jethro,father-in-law of Moses; and is here called a Kenite, be­cause originally she descended from those people whodwelt westward of the Dead Sea, and extended themselvespretty far into Arabia Petraea. The word Ken, from whichthey took their name, signifies a nest, a hole, or a cave;and to this the prophet Balaam might allude, when he ad­dressed himself to them in these words :—" Strong is thydwelling-place, and thou puttest thy nest on a rock ; never­theless the Kenites shall be wasted, until Ashur shall carrythee away captive." Numb. xxiv. 21. These Kenitesindeed were some of the people whose lands God hadpromised to the descendants of Abraham; nevertheless, inconsideration of Jethro, all that submitted to the Israelites,were permitted to live in their own country. In Numb.x. 29. we find that Hobab was invited by Moses to accom­pany him into the land of Canaan; and, in all probability,he accepted the invitation. At their first coming, theysettled themselves in the territories of Jericho; but havingcontracted a particular friendship with the tribe of Jndah,they removed with them into the country that fell to theirlot, Judg. i. 16. Every family of them, however, did notso; for this Heber, we find, for some reasons that are notmentioned, had settled his habitation in the tribe of Naph- thali, Jiidg. i. 11. The Kenites, indeed, though theywere proselytes, and worshipped the true God, accordingto the Mosaic law, yet being strangers by birth, and so notpretending to any right or title to the land of Canaan, heldit best policy, in these troublesome times, to observe aneutrality, and maintain peace, as well as they could, bothwith the Israelites and Canaanites; and upon this footing itwas, that there was a peace between king Jabin and thehouse of Heber, and that Sisera, in his distress, fled toHeber's tent for protection, and put confidence in thefeigned civilities of his wife. Howell's Hist, of the Bible. B. t Jael certainly shewed her regard for Israel by de­stroying Sisera; but it is as certain that she did not do it inthe most honourable manner: there was treachery in it;perhaps, in the estimation of those people, the greatesttreachery. Among the later Arabs, giving a person drinkhas been thought to be the strongest assurance of their re­ceiving him under their protection. When Guy de Lusig-nan, king of Jerusalem, was taken prisoner, and was con­ducted before Saladin, he demanded drink, and they gavehim fresh water, which he drank in Saladin's presence;but when one of his lords would have done the same, Sa­ladin would not suffer it, because he did not intend tospare his life: on the contrary, advancing to him, afteisome expostulations, he cut off his head. D'Herbelot, p371; /farmer, vol. ii. p. 469. J Judg. iv. 22.