OCR Output 4.12 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAF. XLV. diadem: be thou wise and modest; remember what youhave been, remember what you are. You see around usyour slaves and your children; with the authority, as­sume the tenderness, of a parent. Love your peoplelike yourself; cultivate the affections, maintain the dis­cipline, of the army: protect the fortunes of the rich,relieve the necessities of the poor."J The assembly, insilence, and in tears, applauded the counsels, and sympa­thized with the repentance, of their prince: the patri­arch rehearsed the prayers of the church; Tiberius re­ceived the diadem on his knees, and Justin, who in hisabdication appeared most worthy to reign, addressed thenew monarch in the following words.—" If you consent,I live; if you command, I die: may the God of heavenand earth infuse into your heart whatever I have neglect-Death of ed or forgotten." The four last years of the emperora" d. 578, Justin were passed in tranquil obscurity: his conscienceOctober a. weg nQ jonger tormented by the remembrance of thoseduties which he was incapable of discharging: and hischoice was justified by the filial reverence and gratitudeof Tiberius. Tiber";™ Among the virtues of Tiberius/ his beauty (he wasn. one of the tallest and most comely of the Romans) mightSept. 26— introduce him to the favour of Sophia; and the widow ofAbe. 14?*' Justin was persuaded that she should preserve her stationand influence under the reign of a second and moreyouthful husband. But if the ambitious candidate hadbeen tempted to flatter and dissemble, it was no longerin his power to fulfil her expectations, or his own pro­mise. The factions of the hippodrome demanded, withsome impatience, the name of their new empress; boththe people and Sophia were astonished by the proclama- d Tbeophylact Simocatta (lib. 3. c. 11.) declares, that he shall give to posterity thespeech of Justin as it was pronounced, without attempting to correct the imperfectionsof language or rhetoric. Perhaps the vain sophist would have been incapable of pro­ducing such sentiments. • For the character and reign of Tiberius, see Evagrius, lib. 5. c. 13 ; Theophylact,lib. 3. c. 12, &c. Theophanes, in Chron. p. 210—213 ;Zonoras, torn. 2. lib. 14. p. 72;Cedrenus, p. 392 ; Paul Warnefrid, de Geslis Langobard. lib. 3. c. 11,12. The dea­con of Forum Julii appears to have possessed some curious and authentic facts.