OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. gained a compleat victory at Oenophyta*; in consequenceof which, they seized all the territories of Bosotia and Phocis,and levelled the walls of Tanagra. They took from the Lo-crians of Opus one hundred of their richest persons for hos­tages ; and had now completed their own long-walls at Athens. Soon after, the iEginete surrendered to the Athenians uponterms.—They " demolished their fortifications, gave up theirshipping, and submitted to pay an annual tribute for thefuture." The Athenians, farther, in a cruize, infested the coast ofPeloponnesus, under the command of Tolmidas, the son ofTolmaeus. They burnt a dock of the Lacedaemonians, tookChalcis, a city belonging to the Corinthians, and landingtheir men, engaged with and defeated the Sicyonians. During all this interval, the army of the Athenians andallies continued in Egypt, amidst various incidents and events of war. At first, the Athenians had the better of it in Egypt. Upon this, the king] dispatched to Lacedaemon, Megabazus,a Persian noble, furnished with great sums of money, in orderto prevail upon the Lacedaemonians to make an incursion intoAttica, and force the Athenians to recal their troops fromEgypt: When Megabazus could not prevail, and some moneyhad been spent to no manner of purpose, he carried backwhat was yet unexpended with him into Asia. He then send- • This battle is represented by some as more glorious to the Atheniansthan even those of Marathon or Plataea. In the latter they fought, accom­panied by their allies, against Barbarians ; but here, with their own singleforce, they defeated a far more numerous body of the choicest and bestdisciplined troops in Greece. Plato hath marked it in his Funeral Oration,and told us those who fell in this battle were the first who were honouredwith a public interment in the Ceramicus. " These brave men (says he,'' as translated by Mr. West), having fought against Grecians for the liber-" ties of Grecians, and delivered those whose cause they had undertaken" to defend, were the first after the Persian war upon whom the common-" wealth conferred the honour of being buried in this public cemetery." t Alexander Longimanui