OCR Output 350 [book h. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. government, stood up, and three others withhim, and said, "We will not suffer the citi­zens to bring these prisoners into the city, lestwe be all destroyed by God. We have sinsenough of our own, that we have committedagainst him, as the prophet assures us. Norought we therefore to introduce the practiceof new crimes." When the soldiers heardthat, they permitted them to do what theythought best. So the aforenamed men tookthe captives and gave them provisions, andsent them into their own country, withoutdoing them any harm. However, these fourwent along with them, and conducted themas far as Jericho, which is not far from Jeru­salem; and then returned to Samaria. Hereupon king Ahaz, having been so com­pletely defeated by the Israelites, sent toTiglath-Pileser,* king of the Assyrians, andsued for assistance in his war against theIsraelites, Syrians, and Damascenes; witha promise to send him much money. Hesent him also great presents at the sametime. Now this king, upon the reception ofthe ambassadors, came to assist Ahaz, andhaving made war upon the Syrians, he laidtheir country waste, took Damascus by force,slew Rezin their king, and transplanted thepeople of Damascus into the upper Media;and planted a colony of Assyrians, in theircity. He also afflicted the land of Israel,and took many captives out of it. In themean time, king Ahaz took all the gold thatwas in the royal treasury, and the silver, and what was in the temple of God, and whatprecious gifts were there, and he carriedthem with him, and came to Damascus, andgave it to the king of Assyria, according tohis agreement. So he confessed that heowed him thanks for all that he had donefor him, and returned to Jerusalem. Now this king was so thoughtless of whatwas for his own good, that he would notleave off worshipping the Syrians' gods, whenhe was beaten by them: but he continued inhis idolatry, as though they had procuredhim the victory. And when he was beatenagain, he began to honour the gods of theAssyrians: and he seemed more desirous tohonour any other than his paternal and trueGod; whose anger was the cause of his de­feat. Nay he proceeded to such a degreeof contempt of God's worship, that he shutup the temple entirely ;f and forbade thepeople to bring in the appointed sacrifices;and took away the gifts that had been givento it. And when he had offered these indig­nities to God, he died; having lived thirty-sixyears,J and reigned sixteen ;j| and he left hisson Hezekiah for his successor. CHAP. XIII. OF THE DEATH OF PEKAH; AND THE REIGNS OF HOSHEA,KING OF ISRAEL, AND HEZEKIAH, KING OF JUDAH. ABOUT the same time Pekah.§ king ofIsrael died by the treachery of a friendof his named Hoshea, who retained the king­ * In 2 Chron. xxviii. 20, we read, that Tiglath-Pilesercame unto Ahaz, and distressed, but strengthened him not.And yet, in 2 Kings xvi. 9. it is said, that he did help him;and how then can he be said to have distressed him?Very well: for as he came to his assistance against theking of Syria, so he took Damascus, carried the peoplecaptive, and delivered Ahaz from the power of the Syrians;but this did Ahaz little good, for he helped him not to re­cover the cities which the Philistines had taken fromhim. He lent him no forces, nor enabled him to recruithis own ; on the contrary he rather weakened him, by ex­hausting his treasures, and destroying Samaria, whichopened a way for the invasion of his country with morefacility, as it happened in the next reign. For it is nouncommon thing, even in later ages, to hear of kingdomsthat were called in the help of some foreign princeagainst their enemies, over-run and conquered by thosewho came in their assistance. Patrick'} Commentary. B. t 2 Kings xxviii. 24. J When Josephus, together with all our Hebrew, andall our Greek copies in the Kings; and all our Hebrew,and almost all our Greek copies in the Chronicles, makeAhaz to be but twenty years old when he began to reign, and to reign sixteen years; and then as all the copiesagree, to be succeeded by Hezekiah at twenty-five yearsof age: it is plain there are but eleven years, or at mostsome odd months besides for Ahaz, the father, when theson Hezekiah was born; which is one of the greatest dif­ficulties in all the Bible. But then, as Dr. Wall justlyobserves, this difficulty is cleared by the Greek copy andthe Armenian version; which though the former in theKings, and the latter in the Chronicles, had with the restdropped the odd years above twenty for the age of Ahaz,when he came to the crown, yet has the former in theChronicles, 2 Chron. xxviii. 1, and the latter in the Kings,preserved them, and expressly assured us there, thatAhaz was twenty-five years old when he began to reign;which directly implies that he was sixteen years old whenhis son Hezekiah was born; which wholly obviates thedifficulty. II From An, 744 to 728. § Josephus says here, that Pekah was slain about thesame time that Ahaz died; which chronology will notallow. Yet when we consider, that in the same chrono­logy the fourth of Ahaz is called the twentieth of Jotham,2 Kings xv. 30. while Jotham reigned in all but sixteen