OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 479 alone. The introductor and interpreter of foreign chap.ambassadors were the great Chiatiss and the Drago- .man, two names of Turkish origin, and which arestill familiar to the Sublime Porte. 3. From thehumble style and service of guards, the Domesticsinsensibly rose to the station of generals; the militarythemes of the East and West, the legions of Europeand Asia, were often divided, till the great Domesticwas finally invested with the universal and absolutecommand of the land forces. The Protostrator, inhis original functions, was the assistant of the em­peror when he mounted on horseback: he graduallybecame the lieutenant of the great Domestic in thefield; and his jurisdiction extended over the stables,the cavalry, and the royal train of hunting and hawk­ing. The Stratopedarch was the great judge of thecamp; the Protospathaire commanded the guards;the Constable *, the great JEteriarch, and the Acolyih,were the separate chiefs of the Franks, the Barbarians,and the Varangi, or English, the mercenary strangers,who, in the decay of the national spirit, fonned thenerve of the Byzantine armies. 4. The naval powerswere under the command of the great Duke; in hisabsence they obeyed the great Drungaire of thefleet; and in his place the Emir, or admiral,/a nameof Saracen extraction t, but which has been na­turalized in all the modern languages of Europe. Ofthese officers, and of many more whom it would beuseless to enumerate, the civil and military hierarchywas framed. Their honours and emoluments, theirdress and titles, their mutual salutations and respect­ive pre-eminence, were balanced with more exquisitelabour than would have fixed the constitution of a XLI. • Ko»oTTortAof,or xovTocTaiAor, a corruption from the Latin Conies stabuli, orthe French Connetable. In a military sense, it was used by the Greeks in theeleventh century, at least as early as in France. f It was directly borrowed from the Normans. In the twelfth century, Gian.none reckons the admiral of Sicily among the great officers.