OCR Output THE HISTORY B o o K of their merit, put on the moft fplendid robes worn,t. -/-_' when they draw the chariots of the gods in procef-Y.K. 365. fion, or ride in triumph; and, in this drefs, featedB.C.387. themfelves in their ivory chairs at the fronts of theirhoufes. Some fay that they devoted themfelves forthe fafety of their country and their fellow-citizens;and that they fung a hymn upon the occafion, Mar­cus Fabius, the chief pontiff, dictating the form ofwords to them. On the fide of the Gauls, as the keen-nefs of their rage, excited by the fight, had abatedduring the night; and, as they had neither met .anydangerous oppofition in the field, nor were now tak­ing the city by ftorm or force j they marched nextday, without any anger or any heat of pafiion, intothe city, through the Colline gate, which ftoodopen, and advanced to the Forum, cafting roundtheir eyes on the temples of the gods, and on thecitadel, the only fpot which retained the appearanceof war. From thence, leaving a fmall guard toprevent any attack from the citadel or Capitol, whilethey were fcattered about, they difperfed in queft ofplunder. Not meeting a human being in the flreets,part of them rufhed in a body to the houfes thatflood neareft j part fought the moft diftant, as ex­pecting to find them untouched and abounding withfpoil. Afterwards, being frightened from thence,by the very folitude, and fearing left fome fccret de-fign of the enemy might be put in execution againftthem, while they were thus difperfed, they formedthemfelves into bodies, and returned again to theForum, and places adjoining /to it; where findingthe houfes of the plebeians fhut up, and the palacesof the nobles ftanding open, they fhewed rathergreater backwardnefs to attack thefe that were open,than fuch as were fhut. With fuch a degree of ve­neration did they behold men fitting in the porchesof the houfes, who, befide their ornaments and ap­parel, more fplendid than became mortals, bore theneareft refemblance to gods, in the majefty difplayedin their looks, and the gravity of their countenances. I?