OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 123 resigned their office ? Why should I bring instancesfrom antiquity? Lately, within these last ten years,Caius Maenius, dictator, having enforced inquiries,with more strictness than consisted with the safety ofsome powerful men, a charge was thrown out by hisenemies, that he himself was infected with the verycrime against which his inquiries were directed ;—nowMaenius, I say, in order that he might in a private ca­pacity meet the imputation, abdicated the dictatorship.I expect not such moderation in you ; you will not de­generate from your family, of all others the most im­perious and assuming ; nor resign your office a day, oreven an hour before you are forced to it. Be it so:but then let no one exceed the time limited. It isenough to add a day, or a month to the censorship.But Appius says, I will hold the censorship, and holdit alone three years anS six months longer than is al­lowed by the jEmilian law. Surely this is like ab­solute power. Or will you fill up the vacancy withanother colleague, a proceeding not allowable, evenin the case of the death of a censor? You are notsatisfied with having, as if you were a religious censor,hindered the most ancient solemnity, and the only oneinstituted by the very deity, to whom it is performed,from being attended by priests of the highest rank, butdegraded it to the ministration of servants. You areDot satisfied that a family, more ancient than the originof this city, and sanctified by an intercourse of hospi­tality with the immortal gods, has, by means of youand your censorship, been utterly extirpated, with allits branches, within the space of a year, but would in­volve the whole commonwealth in guilt so horrid thatI dread even-to ' mention it. This city was taken inthat lustrum in which Caius Julius and Lucius Papi-rius were censors. On the death of Julius, Papirius,rather than resign his office, substituted Marcus Cor­nelius Maluginensis as his colleague. Yet how muchmore moderate was his ambition, Appius, than yours?Lucius Papirius neither held the censorship alone, norbeyond the time prescribed by law. But still no one