OCR Output 712 RHODIA. RHODAXUS. Lyon downwards is generally flat, but there areseveral parts where the rocks rise right above thewater, and in these places the railway from Lyonto Marseille is cut in the rocks close to the river.At St. Andtol, a small town on the west bank abovethe Ardi'chc, the plain country begins on the westside of the Rhone. On the east side the hills areseen in the distance. From one of the middle-agetowers built on the amphitheatre of Aries, there is aview of the great plain which lies all round thatcity to the north, west, and east, and stretches south­ward to the coast of the Mediterranean. The twolarge affluents of the Rhone on the east side are theJsire (Isara) and the Durance (Druentia). The Rhone was earlier known to the Greeks andRomans than any other of the large rivers of WesternEuioj>e. The oldest notices of this river must havecoine from the Phocaeans and the Greeks of Mas-si lia. What Avicnus has collected from some source(Or. Marit. G23—690) is unintelligible. Pliny(iii. 4) very absurdly derives the name Rhodanusfrom a town which he names Rhoda; but the nameRhodanus is older than any city, and, like the namesof other European rivers, it is one of the oldestmemorials that we have of the languages of theWest. Polybius (iii. 47) supposed that the Rhonerose further east than it does, but he knew that itflowed down a long valley (aoAwf) to the west,though he does not mention the Lake of Genera.Ploleiny (ii. 10), the latest of the classical geo­graphers, had no exact notion of the sources of theRhone, though the Romans long before his timemust have known where to look for them. Hemakes the sources of the Arar come from the Alps,by which the Jura is meant, and in this statement andwhat he says of the course of the Arar and Dubis hemay have followed Strabo(iv. p. 1SG), as it has beensupposed. The blunders about the sources of thisriver are singular. Mela (iii. 3) mentions the Da-nubius and Rhodanus among the rivers of Germany;and in another passage he says that it rises not farfrom the sources of the Isterand the Rhenus (ii. 5). There is much dilVerence in the statements aboutthe number of the mouths of the Rhone. Tnnaeus.quoted by Strabo (p. 183), says that there werefive outlets, for which Polybius repmves Timaeus.and says then; were only two. Polybius (iii. 41)names the eastern branch the Massaliotic. Artemi-dorus, as cited by Strabo, made five mouths. Strabodoes not state how many he supposed that therewere. He says that above the mouths of the Rhone,not far from the sea. is a lake called Stomalimne,which some make one of the outlets of the Rhone,and those particularly do who enumerate seven out­lets of the river. But he shows that this was amistaken opinion. Caesar built ships at Arelatewhen he was going to besiege Massilia, and hebrought them down the river to that city, and bythe eastern branch, as we may assume. The Rhone was navigated by the people on itsbanks at the time when Hannibal with his armycame to cross it, ami much earlier. Polybius is theearliest extant writer who has given us any preciseinformation about this river. Hannibal (B.C. 218)crossed it at a point above the division of the stream,and of course higher than Aries, for we assumethat the bifurcation was not hicher than that cityin his time, if it ever was. (Polyb. iii, 43.) Heprobably crossed the river at Beaucairc and belowthe junction of the Gardvn. He then marchednorthwards on the east side of the river to the In- Isula. [Insula Allobrooum.] Mod his t#n, written on this passage of Polybius tod m Lr(xxi.), who also describes the same passive. {U'March of Hannibai from the fihone (> lit Ay| by H. L. Long, Esq., 1831; Ukert, GoUte*. p. iti&.C.; and the modern writers quoted by each.) Pliny (iii. 4) enumerates three mouths rftixEhaHe calls the two smaller ** Libvcar (if theroisrright): one of these is the HLspanier.se as. *&£ti imay assume to be the nearest to ^pMU; the <iais Metapinum, and the third and hrj«; i» *JMassaliot. Some modem maps repr*s?T.imouths of the river. Ptolemy (ii. 10) iwaa*only a western and an eastern mouth, tfid be caba mistake in placing the Fossae iUrunae [Fu*iMakiaNAe] west of the western month. 13channels of the Rhone below Arks may ^changed in some parts, even in historical pmsksthe bed of the river above Arlts has alran bawhere it is now. But there is no evidence if Igreat changes in the river's course svxt ix awhen Polybius wrote, though it is certain tat 3alluvium brought down the river muit to?? Ilarged the Delta of the Rhone, The canal of Man us, which was on thee&sdithe eastern outlet of the Rhone, is describee naiFossa Mariana: and the stony plaio a satfiunder Lapidei Campl RHODANU'SIA. Pliny (iii. 4^ menu* toin Gallia Narbonensia as a colony of the Kba, He places it on the coast east of AcatM-Mand says that it gave the name to tbefchaitf[Rhodanus.] Hieronymus. in his Proke»»iSecond Epistle to the Galatians, copies Puny 1may be the place which Stephanos (t r, Ptf&*^names Rhodanusia, and calls u a city in 3U«iiby which the Mnssiliotic territory must bf satThe passage in Strabo (it. p. 180) tV K 1yAya6rif To7i, in which he intends to jpeak rfiof the Masailiotic settlements, is corrupt. C**d( Comment, in Strab. p. 83) sometimes tbctrs 4we ought to read tV 5e 'PoSnr ko! 'Ay?**Groskurd (Strab. Transl. i. p. 310) ihsb iPliny has called this place Rhoda becstae b»«, founded it with Rhode or Khodus in Pm*.j he does not mention. He observes thai SeymI (v. 208), Stephanas, and Sidouius Apuiasw5) rightly name it Rhodanusia; and be ha* *' ^that Strabo wrote it so. But it is by » ■certain that Strabo did write it so, G™tos»gument is this: there never was a t<>»a £><lGallia, and Strabo mentions the Iberian 1^Khodus. Since then Strabo is acquaintes'places, he has not made a mistake hk?rather must we with Yossius (Aote om ialter the corrupt 'P6nv into 'PoSofwciw ■Koray is mistaken in rejecting *P*w» mita.*^*not genuine. We know nothing of this liatixalor Khodanusia. The place is gone and his idtrace. [6.1* RHODE. [Rhodavuka.]RHODE FLUV1US. [Sagakis.]RHO DIA ( PtfSta: Eth. Po5.««). sLycia. situated in the mountains on the wiCorydallus. (Steph. B. s. v,; Ptcl *. 3. § i: ICod. 176.) At the time when Col. Uab"his work on Asia Minor (p. 186) the s»town was not yet ascertained, and >*: Cdid not examine the district; but the iamjiwhich have since been found fix its site at 1now called Esld Hissar. (Spratt sad FurUa> <