OCR Output 372 ROMAN EMPIRE. of prosperity and peace; and his dominion was acknow­ledged by forty-four hordes of the barbarians of Tartary.His last garrisons of Cashgar and Khoten maintaineda frequent intercourse with their neighbours of the Jax-artes and Oxus; a recent colony of Persians had intro­duced into China the astronomy of the Magi; and Tait-song might be alarmed by the rapid progress anddangerous vicinity of the Arabs. The influence andperhaps the supplies of China revived the hopes of Yez-degerd and the zeal of the worshippers of fire; and hereturned with an army of Turks to conquer the inheri­tance of his fathers. The fortunate Moslems, withoutunsheathing their swords, were the spectators of his ruinand death. The grandson of Chosroes was betrayed byhis servant, insulted by the seditious inhabitants ofMerou,and oppressed, defeated, and pursued by his barbarianallies. He reached the banks of a river, and offered hisrings and bracelets for an instant passage in a miller'sboat. Ignorant or insensible of royal distress, the rusticreplied, that four drachms of silver were the daily profitof his mill, and that he would not suspend his work un­less the loss were repaid. In this moment of hesitationand delay, the last of the Sassanian kings was overtakenand slaughtered by the Turkish cavalry in the nineteenthyear of his unhappy reign.p His son Firuz, an humbleclient of the Chinese emperor, accepted the station ofcaptain of his guards; and the Magian worship was longpreserved by a colony of loyal exiles in the province ofBucharia. His grandson inherited the regal name; butafter a faint and fruitless enterprise, he returned to China,and ended his days in the palace of Sigan. The maleline of the Sassanides was extinct; but the female cap­tives, the daughters of Persia, were given to the conque­rors in servitude, or marriage: and the race of the caliphs P I hare endeavoured to harmonize the various narratives of Elmacin, (Ili-i.Saracen, p. 37.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 116.) Abulfeda, (Annal. p. 74. 79.)and d'Herbelot. (p. 485.) The end of Yezdegerd was not only unfortunate, butobscure.