OCR Output MARUCA. 2S7 MASADA. Midfarfif* (Mu^HpKtl/j., Cedren. vol. u. pp. 419,501, ed. Bekker; Ritter, Erdhmde, vol. x. pp. 78,**). 1087, vol. xi. pp. 67t foil.) [E. B. J.] MAKITCA. [Socdiasa.]WARV1NGI {Mapoviyyoi), a German tribe onllw rx-t of Mons Abnoba, between the Suevi andthe Danube. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 22.) The town ofBelgium (the modern Bamberg) was probably thecapital of ihe Marvingi. (PtoLU. 11. §29.) [L.S.] MARUNDAE (Mapotrtat, Ptol. vii. 2. § 14),a people who lived in India extra Gangem, alongthe left bank of the Ganges, and adjoining the(tancaridae [Gaxgaridae]. They are probablythe same as those whom Pliny calls Molindae (vi.19. a 22), and may perhaps be considered the sameas the native Indian VarcndrL [V.] MARUS, a tributary of the Danube, into whichit ftiws from the north. Between it and the Casusa band of exiled Marcomanmans received settlementsfrom the Romans under Tiberius. (Tac. Ann, ii.63: Plin. II. jV. iv. 25.) It is generally believedthat this river is the same as the March in Moravia;but it is more probably identical with the Marosck,wtiieb the ancients generally call Marisus. [Ma-Bisrs] [L. S.] MARII'SIUM, a town which the JerusalemItinerary fixes at 13 M. P. from Clodiana, and 14M. P. from the river Apsus, on the road to Apol-fcnia. Colonel Leake's map identifies it withLvjna. [E. B. J.] MARirVTUJI. [Marbuvicm.] MA SAD A (Mcura5a), a very strong fortress ofPalestine, mentioned by Strabo and Pliny, but mnchwin rally described by Josephus. Strabo mentionsit in connection with the phaenomena of the DeadSea, saying that there are indications of volcanicai-Jcn in the rugged burnt rocks about Moasada(Moor&a). Pliny describes it as situated on andc not far from the lake Asphaltis. (Strab. xvi.p^ 764; PUn.v. 17.) The description of Josephus,in whose histories it plays a conspicuous part, is asfollows:—A lofty rock of considerable extent, sur­rounded on all shies by precipitous valleys of fright-nil depth, afforded difficult access only in two parts;on* on the east, towards the lake Asphaltis, by a«ic*ag path, scarcely practicable arid extremelydangerous, called "the Serpent," from its sinuosi­ties; the other more easy, towards the west, onvticb side the isolated rock was more nearly ap­proached by the hills. The summit of the rock*u aot pointed, but a plane of 7 stadia in cir-nimfereoce, surrounded by a wall of white stone,12 robits high and 8 cubits thick, fortified with37 towers of 50 cubits in height. The wall wasjoined within by large buildings connected with thetower*, designed for barracks and magazines for theeexmoos stores and munitions of war which werebid up in this fortress. The remainder of the area,sot occupied by buildings, was arable, the soil^irig richer and more genial than that of the plainbrlow; and a further provision was thus made forttw garrison in case of a failure of suppliesfrom without. The rain-water was preserved>° large cisterns excavated in the solid rock. A[•lace on a grand scale occupied the north-westawtat, oo a lower level than the fortress, but con-&*<t*d with it by covered passages cut in the rock.Too was adorned within with porticoes and baths,"l^fftfrted by monolithic columns; the walls andnW were covered with tesselated work. At theStance of 1000 cubiU from the fortress a massive tower guarded the western approach at its narrowestand most difficult point, and thus completed theartificial defences of this most remarkable site, whichnature had rendered almost impregnable. Jonathan,the high-priest, had been the first to occupy thisrock as a fortress, but it was much strengthenedand enlarged by Herod the Great, who designed itas a refuge for himself, both against his own dis­affected subjects, and particularly against the moredreaded designs of Cleopatra, who was constantlyimportuning Antony to put her in possession of thekingdom of Judaea by removing Herod out of theway. It was in this fortress that the unfortunateMariamne and other members of Herod's family wereleft for security, under his brother Joseph and a smallgarrison, when he was driven from Jerusalem byAntigonus and his Parthian allies. The fortresswas besieged by the Parthians, and Joseph was onthe point of surrendering for want of water, when atimely shower filled the cisterns and enabled thegarrison to hold out until it was relieved by Herodon his return from his successful mission to Rome.It next figures in the history of the Jewish revolt,having been occupied first by Manahem, son ofJudas the Galilean, a ringleader of the ticarii, whotook it by treachery, and put the Roman garrisonto the sword; and afterwards by Klcazar and hispartisans, a rival faction of the same murderousfanatics, by whom it was held for some time afterJerusalem itself had fallen; and here it wai thatthe last scene of that awful tragedy was enactedunder circumstances singularly characteristic of thespirit of indomitable obstinacy and endurance thathad actuated the Jewish zealots throughout thewhole series of their trials and sufferings. It wasthe only stronghold that still held out when KlaviusSilva succeeded Bassus as prefect in Judaea (a. d.73). The first act of the general was to surroundthe fortress with a wall, to prevent the escape of thegarrison. Having distributed sentries along thisline of circumvallation, he pitched his own camp onthe west, where the rock was most nearly approachedby the mountains, and was therefore more open to'assault; for the difficulty of procuring provisions andwater for his soldiers did not allow him to attempta protracted blockade, which the enormous stores ofprovisions and water still found there by Kleazarwould have enabled the garrison better to endure.Behind the tower which guarded the ascent was aprominent rock of considerable size and height,though 300 cubits lower than the wall of the fortress,called the White Cliff. On this a bank of 200cubits' height was raised, which formed a base for aplatform (fiTjfxa) of solid masonry, 50 cubits in widthand height, on which was placed a tower similar inconstruction to those invented and employed insieges by Vespasian and Titus, covered with platesof iron, which reached an additional 60 cubits, so asto dominate the wall of the castle, which wasquickly cleared of its defenders by the showers ofmissiles discharged from the scorpions and balistae.The outer wall soon yielded to the ram, when aninner wall was discovered to hare been constructedby the garrison—a framework of timber filled withsoil, which became more solid and compact by theconcussions of the ram. Thus, however, was speedilyfired. The assault was fixed for the morrow, whenthe garrison prevented the swords of the Romans byone of the most cold-blooded and atrocious massacreson record. At the instigation of Kleazar, they firstslew every man hw wife and children; then having