OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 225 the air that the default of payment had been the causeof the last scarcity.1 The literary merits of Charlemagneare attested by the foundation of schools, the introduc­tion of arts, the works which were published in his name,and his familiar connexion with the subjects and strangerswhom he invited to his court to educate both the princeand people. His own studies were tardy, laborious, andimperfect; if he spoke Latin, and understood Greek, hederived the rudiments of knowledge from conversation,rather than from books; and, in his mature age, the em­peror strove to acquire the practice of writing, whichevery peasant now learns in his infancy .k The grammarand logic, the music and astronomy, of the times, wereonly cultivated as the handmaids of superstition: but thecuriosity of the human mind must ultimately tend to itsimprovement, and the encouragement of learning reflectsthe purest and most pleasing lustre on the character ofCharlemagne.1 The dignity of his person,™ the lengthof his reign, the prosperity of his arms, the vigour of hisgovernment, and the reverence of distant nations, distin­guish him from the royal crowd; and Europe dates anew era from his restoration of the western empire.That empire was not unworthy of its title;" and 1 Omnishomo ex sua proprietate legitimam decimam ad ecclesiam conferat , Ex-perimento eiiim didicimus, in anno, quo ilia validn fames irrepsit, ebullire vacuasannonas a dzmonibus devgratas, et voces exprobatiouis auditas. Such is the decreeand assertion of the great council of Frankfort, (canon 25. torn. 9. p. 105.) BothSelden (Hist, of Tithes; Works, vol. $. part 2. p. 1146.) and Montesquieu. (.Espritdes Lou, lib. 31. c. 12.) represent Charlemagne as the first legal author of tithes.Such obligations have country gentlemen to his memory! k Eginhard (c. 25. p. 119.) clearly affirms, tentabat et scribere . . . sed pa turnprospere successit labor pteposterus et sero inchoatus. The moderns have per­verted and corrected this obvious meaning, and the title of M. Gaillard's Disser-tation (torn. 3. p. 247—260.) betrays his partiality. 1 See Gaillard, torn. 3. p. 138—176. and Schmidt, torn. *. p. 121—129.• M. Gaillaid (torn. S. p. 373.) fixes the true stature of Charlemagne (sec a Dis.serial ion of Marquard Freher adcalcem Eginhart, p. 220, &c.) at five feetnine inchesof French, about six feet one inch and a fourth English measure. The romancewriters have increased it to eight feet, and the giant was endowed with matchlessstrength and appetite: at a single stroke of his good sword Joyeuu, he cut asundera horseman and his horse; at a single repast he devoured a goose, two fowls, aquarter of mutton, &c. ° See the concise, but correct and original, work of d'Anville (Etats fomv'-s enEurope npres la Chute de 1'Empire Remain en Occident, Paris 1771, in quarto;,whose map includes the empire of Charlemagne: the different parts are illustrated,by Valesius (Notitia Galliarum) for France, Beretti (Dissertatio Chorographica) VOL. VI. Q