OCR Output GHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. experience and free conversation of a soldier, a statesman,and a traveller; his style continually aspires, and oftenattains, to the merit of strength and elegance; his re­flections, more especially in the speeches, which he toofrequently inserts, contain a rich fund of political know­ledge; and the historian, excited by the generous ambi­tion of pleasing and instructing posterity, appears to dis­dain the prejudices of the people, and the flattery ofcourts. The writings of Procopius° were read and ap­plauded by his contemporaries ;p but, although he re­spectfully laid them at the foot of the throne, the prideof Justinian must have been wounded by the praise of ahero, who perpetually eclipses the glory of his inactivesovereign. The conscious dignity of independence wassubdued by the hopes and fears of a slave; and the se­cretary of Belisarius laboured for pardon and reward inthe six books of the imperial edifices. He had dexter-*ously chosen a subject of apparent splendour, in whichhe could loudly celebrate the genius, the magnificence,and the piety of a prince, who, both as a conqueror andlegislator, had surpassed the puerile virtues of Themis-tocles and Cyrus.q Disappointment might urge theflatterer to secret revenge; and the first glance of favourmight again tempt him to suspend and suppress a libel;' ° The literary fate of Procopius has been somewhat unlucky. 1. His books <leBello Gothico were stolen by Leonard Aretin, and published (Folginii, 1470; Venet.1171, apud Jansnn; Mattaire, Annal. Typograph. tom. 1. edit, posterior, p. 290. 304.279. 299.) in his own name (See Vossius de Hist. Lat. lib. 3. o. 5. and the feebledefence of the Venice Giornale de Letterati, tom. 19. p. 207.) 2. His works weremutilated by the first Latin translators, Christopher Persona (Giornale, tom. 19.p. 340—348.) and Raphael de Volatena, (Huet de Claris. Interpretibus, p. 166.) whodid not even consult the MS. of the Vatican library, of which they were prefects.(Aleman. in Prafat. Anecdote.) 3. The Greek text was not printed till 1607, byHoeschelius of Augsburgh. (Dictionnaire de Bayle, tom. 2. p. 782.) 4. The Parisedition wasimperfectly executed by Claude Maltret, a Jesuit of Thoulouse, iu 1663,tar distant from the Louvre press and the Vatican MS. from which, however, he ob­tained some supplements. His promised commentaries, &c. have never appeared.The Agathias of Leydon (1594) has been wisely reprinted by the Paris editor, withthe Latin version of Bonaventura Vulcanius, a learned interpreter. (Huet, p. 176.) P Agathias in Praefat. p. 7, 8. lib. 4. p. 137. Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 12. See likewisePhotius, cod. 63. p. 65. 1 Kupou uroiSsia (says he, Praefat. ad 1. de Edificiis wEpi Xria-ftnraiv) is no more thanKujou woiSut—a pun! Iu these five books, Procopius atlects a Christian, as well as acourtly style. r Procopius discloses himself, (Prafat. ad Anccdot. c. 1. 2. 5.) and the anecdotesare reckoned** the ninth book by Suldas. (tom. 3. p. 186. edit. Kustcr.) The silence