OCR Output LECTUM. 153 LEGIO VII. GEMINA. by the Jerusalem Itin. after Arausio (Orange), andxiii. M.I\ from it D'Anville says that the distancek l>o great, for it seems that the place is at thepassage of the small nver Lez. [G. L.] LECTUM (ri AurreV), a promontory in thesouth-west of Troas, opposite the island of Lesbos.It forms the south-western termination of MountIda. (Horn. II xiv. 294; Herod, ix. 114; Thucyd.viii. 101 ; PtoLv.2. § 4; Plin. v. 32; Liv. xxxvii.37.) In the time of Strabo (xiii. p. 605, comp.p. 553) there was shown on Cape Lectum an altar,said to hare been erected by Agamemnon to thetwelve great gods; but this very number is a proofof the late origin of the altar. Under the Byzan­tine emperors, Lectum was the northernmost pointof the province of Asia. (Hierocl. p. 659.) Athe-naeas(iii- p. 88) states that the purple shell-fish,found near Lection as well as near Sigeum, was ofa large sue. The modern name of Lectam is Bala,or Santa Maria. [L. S.] LE'CYTH US (AJjkvQos), a town in the peninsulaof Sithoma in Chakidice, not far from Torone, witha temple to Athena. The town was attacked byBrcsidas, who took it by storm, and consecrated theentire cape to the goddess. Everything was de-rmdUhed except the temple and the buildings con­nected with it (Thuc. iv. 115, 116.) [E. B. J.] LEDERA'TA or LAEDEKATA (Aftepdra andXtTtpard), a fortified place in Upper Moesia, on thehigh nod from Viminacium to Dacia, on the river)i>rgus. It was a station for a detachment of horsearchers. (Proeop. de Aed. iv. 6; Tab. Pent; Notit.Imp., where it is called Laedenata.) Ruins ofaacitnt fortifications, commonly identified with thefile of Lederata, are found in the neighbourhood ofRama. [L.S.] LEDON (A«8^»: Eth. AeSoWioy), a town ofPhocia, north of Tithorea, the birthplace of Philo­melas, the commander of the Phocians in the SacredWar. In the time of Pausanias it was abandoned bythe inhabitant's, who settled upon the Cephissus, attli? distance of 40 stadia from the town, bat theruin* of the latter were seen by Pausanias. Leakerapposea that the ruins at Paled Fiva are those ofLedou. (Paus. x. 2. §2, x. 3. §2, x. 33. §1;Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 89.) LEDRON (Atypov), a place in Cyprus, near Leu-c-ikj*, which the ecclesiastical writers mention as ababop's we. (Sozomen,II.E. v. 10; Niceph. Callist.Tii.42; Enzel, Kyprvs, vol. i. p. 152.) [E. B. J.] LEDUS, or LEDUM, as Mela (ii. 5) names it, aaull river of Gallia Narbonensis. Eestus Avienus("r. .\farit 590) names it Ledus. Mela speaks ofthe "Stagna Volcarum, Ledum flutneii, castcllumLara." The Lcdus is the Lez, which passes bySextantio, to the east of Montpellier, and flows intothe Euwg de Magwlone or Perols below Latera,am Late* or Latte. Pliny (ix. 8) gives the nameof Stagnant Latera to this E'tang, and he speaks ofit as abounding in mullets, and describes the way oftaking them. The mullet is still abundant there.Hiny places the Stagnum Latera in the territory ofXetnaosaft (Stmts), which is at some distance. Butthe EUnaa and the Castcllum Latera may be amongthe many small places (Plin. hi. 4) which wereBade dependant on Nemausus (Nemausiensibusattribota). [G. L.] LEfiTA-NL [Laektani.]LEGAE (Arryat, Strab. xi. p. 503; Anyef, Plut.r\mp. 35), a people on the shores of the Caspian,eautfed between Albania and the Amazones, and j belonging to the Scythian stock. (Theophanes, ap.Strab. I. c.) The name survives, it has been con­jectured, in the modern Lesghi, the inhabitants ofthe E. region of Caucasus. (Comp. Potocki, Voyagedans les Steps dAstrakhan, vol. i. p. 239.) [E. B.J.] LEGEDIA, in Gallia, is placed by the Table ona road from Condate (Jiennes) to Coriallum, perhapsOterbourg. It is 49 Gallic leagues from Condateto Legcdia, and 19 from Legedia to Cosedia. Noneof the geographers agree about the position of Le­gedia. Walckenaer places it at Villebaudon, nearLezeau, in support of which there is some similarityof name. [G. L.] LEGEOLIUM, a town in Britain, mentioned inthe Itinerary. At Castleford, in Yorkshire, the roadfrom Isurium (Aldborough) crosses the river Aire;and in this neighbourhood coins and other antiquitieshave been dug up. A camp, however, has yet tobe discovered. Castleford is generally identifiedwith Legeolium. Lagecium is the first station from York on theway to London, 21 miles from the former town, and16 from Danum ( = Doncaster). This is from the8th Itinerary. In the 5th Legeolium is exactly in the same po­sition. This identifies the two. [R. G. L.] LE'GIO (Aeytdtv), a town of Palestine mentionedby Eusebius and S. Jerome. Its importance isintimated by the fact that it is assumed by them asa centre from which to measure the distance ofother places. Thus they place it. 15 M. P. west ofNazareth, three or four from Taanach (Onomast.s. w. Nazareth, Thaanach, Thanaach Catnona,Apkraim.) Reland (Palaest. s. v. p. 873) correctlyidentifies it with the modern village Lcgune orel-Lejjun, "on the western border of the great plainof Esdraelon," — which Eusebius and S. Jeromedesignate, from this town, f*4ya ir&ov Atytuvos(Onomast. s. v. raGa$wv),— " where it already be­gins to rise gently towards the low range of woodedhills which connect Carmel and the mountains ofSamaria," Its identity with the Megiddo of Scrip­ture is successfully argued by Dr. Robinson {Bib.Res. vol. iii. pp. 177—180.) Megiddo is constantlyjoined with Taanach, and Lejjun is the requisitedistance from the village of Taann&k, which isdirectly south of it. Both were occupied by Ca-naanitish sheik lis (Josh. xii. 21), both assigned tothe half-tribe of Manasseh, though lying within theborders of Issachar or Asher (xvii. 11; 1 Chron.vii. 29); both remained long unsubdued (Judges, i.27). In the battle between Barak and Sisera "theyfought in Taanach by the Waters of Megiddo,''—whicliwaters issue from a copious fountain, the streamfrom which turns several mills, and is an importanttributary to the Kishon (Maundrcll, Journey, March22, p. 57.) This is probably the place mentioned byShaw as the Ras-el-Kishon, or the head of theKishon, under the south-east brow of Mount Carmel.Three or four of its sources, he says, lie within lessthan a furlong of each other, and discharge waterenough to form a river half as big as the Isis.(Travels, p. 274, 4to. ed.) It was visited and de­scribed by Mr. Wolcott in 1842. He found it to bean hour and 40 minutes from Taannuk (BibliothecaSacra, 1843, pp. 76—78.) The great caravan roadbetween Egypt and Damascus passes through Lejjun;and traces of an old Roman road are to be seen tothe south of the village. [G. W.] LEGIO VII. GE'MINA (Itin. Ant. p. 395;Atyiwv £ VepnaviKJ), Ptul. ii. 6. § 30: Lean), a