OCR Output Chap XXXI. , WARS OF THE JEWS. 345 came the inquisitors and discoverers of what could not otherwisehave been found out, and brought such as were the freest fromsuspicion to be examined; whereby it was discovered, that Ma-riamne,the high-priest's daughter, was conscious of this plot,andher very brothers, when they were tortured, declared it so tobe. Whereupon the king avenged this insolent attempt of themother upon her son, and blotted Herod, whom he had by her,out of his testament, who had been before named therein assuccessor to Antipater. CHAP. XXXI. Antipater is convicted by Bathyllus : But be still returns fromRome without knowing it. Herod brings him to bis trial. § 1. A FTER these things were over, Bathyllus came underJL\. examination, in order to convict Antipater, who pro­ved the concluding attestation to Antipater's designs; for indeedhe was no other than his freed man. This man came, and broughtanother deadly potion, the poison of asps, and the juices of otherserpents, that if the first potion did not do the business, Pherorasand his wife might be armed with this also to destroy the king.He brought also an addition to Antipater's insolent attempt againsthis father, which was the letters which he wrote against hisbrethren, Archelaus and Philip, which were the king's sons, andeducated atRome,beingyet youths,but of generous dispositions.Antipater set himself to get rid of these as soon as he could, thatthey might not be prejudicial to his hopes, and to that end heforged letters against them in the name of his friends at Rome.Some of these he corrupted by bribes to write how they grosslyreproached their father, and did openly bewail Alexander andAristobulus, and were uneasy at their being recalled; for theirfather had already sent for them, which was the very thingthat troubled Antipater. 2. Nay indeed, while Antipater was in Judea, and before hewas upon his journey to Rotne, he gave money to have the likeletters against them sent from Rome, and then came to his father,who as yet had no suspicion of him, and apologized for his breth­ren, and alleged on their behalf, that some of the things contain­ed in those letters were false, andothers of themwere onlyyouth-ful errors. Yet at the same time that he expended a great dealof his money, by making presents to such as wrote against hisbrethren,didheaimtobringhis accounts intoconfusion,bybuyingcos tly garments, andcarpets of various contextures,withsilver andgold cups, and a great many more curious things, that so, amongthe very great expences laid out upon such furniture, he might VOL. HI. X x conceal