OCR Output =44 NOTES ON THE this substance for lamps, -when burnt with oil, give a perpetual Tight,•without requiring frtjh supply- By the smell too of these lamps,those that labour under the falling sickness are detected. Thi»Hone grows in Carystus, from whence it derives its name. Itlikewise abounds in that part of Cyprus through which youdescend from Gerandrum towards Soli, on the left hand of El-mæus beneath the rocks. This stone increases about the fullmoon, and is diminished when the moon decreases." It appearsfrom this curious passage, that this stone Carystius must be the-same with lir.um vivum, or ajbeftinum. What Plutarch too, in his treatise, Why the Oracles cease I*jive answers, says concerning the non-existence of this stone inhis time, particularly deserves the attention of the philosophicreader. "It is not long (fays he) since the quarry of Carystushas ceased to yield a certain soft stone, which used to be drawninto a fine thread 5 for I suppose that some here have seen tow­els, net-work, and coifs, woven of that tiiread which could notbe burnt; but when they were soiled with using, people threwthem into the fire, and took them out white and clean; for thefire only served to purify them. But all this is vanished, andnothing is to be found in the quarry now, but some few fibres orharry threads, lying scattered up and down. Aristotle and hi.followers affirm, that the cause of all this is owing to an exha­lation within the earth, the phainomena proceeding from whichfail, or again make their appeaiance, when this exhalation fails,or revives and recovers itself again." The reason why this stonesometimes fails, and at others appears again,can only be satisfacto­rily accounted for by that theory respecting fertile and barren pe­riods, which the reader will find unfolded in the note to page 104. With respect to the lamp mentioned by Pausanias, whetherits burning day and night for a year was entirely owing to thewick being made of Carpalian flax, so that the lamp was notlarger than the lamps used in common, deserves tobe investigatedby the curious in natural researches. But that the ancients pos­sessed