OCR Output 386 LIVY. son, sent by Philocles to inquire what he meant, heonly answered, standing with his shield held out be­fore him, that he meant to die in arms in defence ofthe city intrusted to his charge. Philocles then or­dered some Thracians to throw their javelins at himand his attendants; and they were, every man of them,slain. Thus notwithstanding the alliance concludedby the Achaeans with the Romans, two of their cities,and those of the greatest consequence, Argos and Co­rinth, were still in the hands of Philip. Such werethe services performed in that campaign by the landand sea forces of Rome employed in Greece. 20. In Gaul, the consul Sextus jElius did nothingworth mention, though he had two armies in the pro­vince; one, which he had retained under their stand­ards, although it ought to have been disbanded; andof this, which had served under Lucius Cornelius, pro­consul, he had given the command to Caius Helvius,the pretor: the other he had brought with him. Hespent nearly the whole summer in compelling the peo­ple of Cremona and Placentia to return to their colo­nies, from whence they had been driven to variousplaces by the calamities of war. While Gaul, beyondexpectation, remained quiet through the whole year,an insurrection of the slaves was very near takingplace in the neighborhood of the city. The hostages,given by the Carthaginians, were kept in custody atSetia: as they were the children of the principal fa­milies, they were attended by a great multitude ofslaves; to this number many were added, in conse­quence of the late African war, and by the Setiansthemselves having bought, from among the spoil, se­veral of those which had been captured. Having con­spired together, they sent some of their number to en­gage in the cause their fellows of the country roundSetia, with those at Norba and Circeii. When everything was fully prepared, they determined, during thegames which were soon to be solemnised at the first-mentioned place, to attack the people while intent onthe show, and, putting them to death, to make them-