OCR Output 190 THE DECLINE AND FALL zond,' of the Asiatic coast. After the loss of Egypt, the capital was afflicted byfamine and pestilence; and the emperor, incapable of resistance, and hopeless ofrelief, had resolved to transfer his person and government to the more secure resi­dence of Carthage. His ships were already laden with the treasures of the pa­lace, but his flight was arrested by the patriarch, who armed the powers of reli­gion in the defence of his country, led Heraclius to the altar of St. Sophia, and ex­torted a solemn oath, that he would live and die with the people whom God hadintrusted to his care. The chagan was encamped in the plains of Thrace, but hedissembled his perfidious designs, and solicited an interview with the emperornear the town of Heraclea. Their reconciliation was celebrated with equestriangames; the senate and people in their gayest apparel resorted to the festival ofpeace, and the Avars beheld with envy and desire, the spectacle of Roman luxu­ry. On a sudden the hippodrome was encompassed by the Scythian cavalry, whohad pressed their secret and nocturnal march: the tremendous sound of the cha-gan's whip gave the signal of the assault; and Heraclius wrapping his diademround his arm, was saved, with extreme hazard, by the fleetness of his horse. Sorapid was the pursuit, that the Avars almost entered the golden gate of Constan­tinople with the flying crowds;(l) but the plunder of the suburbs rewarded theiitreason, and they transported beyond the Danube, two hundred and seventy thou­sand captives. On the shore of Chalcedon, the emperor held a safer conferencewith a more honourable foe, who, before Heraclius descended from his galley, sa­luted with reverence and pity the majesty of the purple. The friendly offer ofSain the Persian general, to conduct an embassy to the presence of the great king,was accepted with the warmest gratitude, and the prayer for pardon and peace■was humbly presented by the pretorian prefect, the prefect of the city, and oneof the first ecclesiastics of the patriarchal church. (2) But the lieutenant of Chos-roes had fatally mistaken the intentions of his master. " It was not an embassy(said the tyrant of Asia,) it was the person of Heraclius, bound in chains, that heshould have brought to the foot of my throne. I will never give peace to the_em­peror of Rome till he has abjured his crucified God, and embraced the worship ofthe sun." Sain was flayed alive, according to the inhuman practice of his coun­try; and the separate and rigorous confinement of the ambassadors, violated thelaws of nations and the faith of an express stipulation. Yet the experience ofsix years at length persuaded the Persian monarch to renounce the conquest ofConstantinople, and to specify the annual tribute or ransom of the Roman empire:a thousand talents of gold, a thousand talents of silver, a thousand silk robes, athousand horses, and a thousand virgins. Heraclius subscibed these ignominiousterms, but the time and space which he obtained to collect such treasures fromthe poverty of the east, was industriously employed in the preparations of a boldand desperate attack. Of the characters conspicuous in history, that of Heraclius is one of the mostextraordinary and inconsistent. In the first and last years of a long reign, theemperor appears to be the slave of sloth, of pleasure, or of superstition, the care­less and impotent spectator of the public calamities. But the languid mists of themorning and evening are separated by the brightness of the meridian sun: the Ar-•cadius of the palace arose the Cxsar of the camp; and the honour of Rome andHeraclius was gloriously retrieved by the exploits and trophies of six adventurous■campaigns. It was the duty of the Byzantine historians to have revealed the causesof his slumber and vigilance. At this distance we can only conjecture, that hewas endowed with more personal courage than political resolution: that he wasdetained by the charms, and perhaps the arts, of his niece Martina, with whom,.after the death of Eudocia, he contracted an incestuous marriage;(3) and that heyielded to the base advice of the counsellors, who urged, as a fundamental law,that the life of the emperor should never be exposed in the field. (4) Perhaps he (0 The Paschal Chronicle, which sometimes introduces fragments of history into a barren list of names anddates, gives the best account of the treason of the Avars, p. S89,390. The number of captives is added byNicephorus. (2) Some original pieces, such as the speech or letter of the Roman ambassadors, (p. 386—388.) likewise con­stitute the merit of the Paschal Chronicle, which was composed, perhaps at Alexandria, under the reign ofHeraclius. (3) Nicephorus (p. 10,11.) who brands this marriage with the names of *fctr/iw and erfs/urev, is happy to ob­serve, that of two sons, its incestuous fruit, the elder was marked by Providence with a stiff neck, the youngerwith the loss of hearing. (4) George of Pisidia; (Acroas. 1.112—125., p. 5.) who states the opinions, acquits the pusillanimous counsel­lors of any sinister views. Would he have excused the proud and contemptuous admonition of Crispus?