OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIOjnTIES OF THE JEWS. Ifl knowledge of the truth of that matter. So these men went away 'without success. Yet was it not long ere Quadratus came to ,Samaria, where, upon hearing the cause, he supposed that the \Samaritans were the authors of that disturbance. But, whenhe was informed' that certain of the Jews were making innova­tions, he ordered those to be crucified whom Cumanus had takencaptives. From whence he came to a certain village called Lyd-dn, which was not less than a city in largeness, and there heardtlie Samaritan cause a second time before his tribunal, and therelearned from a certain .Samaritan, that one of the chief of theJews, whose name was Dortu't, and some other innovators withhim, four in number, persuaded the multitude to a revolt fromdie Romans ; whom Quadratus ordered to be put to death : b^fstill he sent away Ananias the high-priest, and Ananus the com­mander [of the temple], in bonds to Rome, to give an accountof what they had done to Claudius Caesar. He also orderedthe principal men, both of the Samaritans and of the Jews, asalso Cumanus the procurator, and Celer the tribune, to go to Italyto th<e emperor, that he might hear their cause, and determinetheir differences one with another. But he came again to thecity of Jerusalem, out of his fear that the multitude of the Jewsshould attempt some innovations ; but he found the city in apeaceable state, and celebrating one of the usual festivals of theircountry to God. So he believed that they would not attemptany innovations, and left them at the celebration of the festival,and returned to Antioch. 3. Now Cumanus, and the principal of th£ Samaritans, whowere sent to Rome, had a day appointed them by the emperor,whereon they were to have pleaded their cause about the quar­rels they had one with another. But now Cfesar's freed-men,and his friends, were very zealous on the behalf of Cumanusand the Samaritans ; and they had prevailed over the Jews, un­less Agrippa junior, who was then at Rome, had seen the prin­cipal of the Jews hard set, and had earnestly entreated Agrip-pina, the emperor's wife, to persuade her husband to hear thecause, so as was agreeable to his justice, and to condemn thoseto be punished who were really the authors of this revolt fromthe Roman government. Whereupon Claudius was so well dis­posed before-hand, that when he had heard the cause, and foundthat the Samaritans had been the ringleaders in those mischie­vous doings, he gave order, that those who came up to him shouldbe slain, and that Cumanus should be banished. He also gaveorder, that Celer the tribune should'be carried back to Jerusa­lem, and should be drawn through the city in the sight of all thepeople, and then should be slair. CHAP.