OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. the - Athenians, having thus cut off their long walls fromthe city of the Megareans, and possessed themselves ofNisaea, were preparing to accomplish what was yet to bedone. But Brasidas, son of Tellis, the Lacedaemonian, happenedat this time to be about Sicyon and Corinth, levying forcesto march for Thrace. He was no sooner informed of thesurprisal of the walls than he trembled for the Peloponne-sians in Nisaea, and lest Megara should be taken. He sum­mons the Boeotians to attend him expeditiously with theirforces at Tripodiscus (the place so named is a village of theMegaris under the mountain Geranea) whither he was march­ing himself with two thousand seven hundred heavy-armed.Corinthians, four hundred Phliasians, six hundred Sicyoni-ans, and what levies he had already made upon his own ac­count. He imagined he might come up before Nisaea couldbe taken. But hearing the contrary (for he came up in thenight to Tripodiscus), with a picked body of three hundredmen, before the news of his march could be spread, he ap­proached to the city of Megara, undescried by the Atheni­ans, who were posted near the sea. He intended to declarethat he was ready to attempt, and in fact would have beenglad to have effected, the recovery of Nisaea. But it wasprincipally his view to get admission into Megara, and pro­vide for its security. He demanded admission, assuringthem he had great hope of recovering Nisaea. But the fac­tious in Megara, perplexed at this step of Brasidas—on oneside, lest he meant to reinstate the exiles by ejecting them ;the other, lest the people with such an apprehension might atonce fall upon them, and their city thus plunged into a tu­mult of arms might be lost, if the Athenians, who lay readyin ambush, should seize it; refused him admittance, andboth factions thought proper without any stir to await theevent. For it was severally their full expectation, that abattle must ensue between the Athenians and these new­comers ; and then, without plunging themselves into unne­