OCR Output AN. 163.] 449 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. such as were going up to the temple, in orderto offer their sacrifices: for this citadel ad­joined to and overlooked the temple. Whenthese misfortunes had often happened tothem, Judas resolved to destroy that garri­son. Accordingly he got all the people to­gether, and vigorously besieged those thatwere in the citadel. This was in the hun­dred and fiftieth year of the dominion of theSeleucidae. So he made engines of war,and erected bulwarks; and very zealouslypressed on to take the citadel. But therewere not a few of the runagates who were inthe place, that went out by night, into thecountry, and got together some other wickedmen like themselves; and went to Antiochusthe king, and desired of him, that he wouldnot suffer them to be neglected under thegreat hardships that lay upon them, fromthose of their own nation: and this becausetheir sufferings were occasioned on his fa­ther's account; while they left the religiousworship of their fathers, and preferred thatwhich he had commanded them to follow:that there was danger lest the citadel andthose that were appointed to garrison it bythe king, should be taken by Judas, and thosethat were with him; unless he would sendthem succours. When Antiochus, who wasbut *a child, heard this, he was angry, andsent for his captains, and his friends; andgave order that they should get an army ofmercenaries together, with such men also, ofhis own kingdom, as were of an age fit forwar. Accordingly an army was collected ofabout a hundred thousand footmen, twentythousand horsemen, and thirty-two ele­phants. So the king took this army, and marchedhastily out 01 Antioch, with Lysias, who hadthe command of the whole; and came to Idu-mea, and thence went up to Bethsura, a citythat was strong, and not to be taken without freat difficulty: he sat about this city, andesieged it. And while the inhabitants ofBethsura courageously opposed him, and sal­lied out upon him, and burnt his engines ofwar; a great deal of time was spent in the siege. But when Judas heard of the king'scoming, he raised the siege of the citadel, andmet the king, and pitched his camp in certainstraits, at a place called Bethzachariah, atthe distance of seventy furlongs from theenemy. But the king soon drew his forcesfrom Bethsura, and brought them to thosestraits. And as soon as it was day he puthis men in battle array, and made his ele­phants follow one another through the nar­row passes: because they could not be setsideways one by another. Now round aboutevery elephant there were a thousand foot­men, and five hundred horsemen. The ele­phants also had high towers upon theirbacks, and archers in them. And he alsomade the rest of his army to go up the moun­tains, and put his friends before the rest;and gave orders for the army to shout aloud:and so he attacked the enemy. He alsoexposed to sight their golden and brazenshields: so that a glorious splendour wassent from them; and when they shouted themountains echoed again. When Judas sawthis, he was not terrified; but received theenemy with great courage, and slew aboutsix hundred of the first ranks. But when his,brother Eleazar, whom they called Auran,saw the tallest of all the elephants armedwith royal breast-plates, and supposed thatthe king was upon him, he attacked himwith great quickness and bravery. He alsoslew many of those that were about the ele­phant, and scattered the rest; and then wentunder the belly of the elephant, and smotehim, and slew him. So the elephant fellupon Eleazar; and by his weight crushedhim to death.f And thus did this man cometo his end, when he had first courageouslydestroyed many of his enemies. But Judas, seeing the strength of the ene­my, retired to Jerusalem, and prepared toendure a siege. As for Antiochus, he sentpart of his army to Bethsura, to besiege it;and with the rest of his army he came againstJerusalem. But the inhabitants of Bethsurawere terrified at his strength; and seeingthat their provisions grew scarce, they de-much more authentic history in 1 Mace. vi. 28, &c.agrees with him, we have no reason to suppose himtherein mistaken. * Dr. Hudson observes here, that Jason of Cyrene,as epitomized in the second book of the Maccabees,chap. xiii. tells this story very differently from Josephus.But then, since, as I have lately remarked, Josephusnever appears to have seen those books; and since that t- 1 Mace. vi. 46.