OCR Output 120 [book viiL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. be killed. But Zedekiah, one of those falseprophets, came near, and exhorted him notto hearken to Micaiah, for he did not at allspeak truth. As a demonstration of which,he instanced in what Elijah had said,* whowas a better prophet in foretelling futuritiesthan Micaiah; for he foretold that the dogsshould lick his blood in the city Jezreel, inthe field of Nahoth; as they licked the bloodof Naboth, who by his means was there stonedto death by the multitude;f that therefore itwas plain that this Micaiah was a liar, ascontradicting a greater prophet than himself;and saying, that he should be slain at threedays' journey distance. "And," said he,"you shall soon know whether he be a trueprophet, and hath the power of the DivineSpirit: for I will smite him, and let him thenhurt my hand, as Jadon caused the hand ofJeroboam the king to wither, when he wouldliave caught him; for I suppose thou hastcertainly heard of that accident." So when,upon his smiting Micaiah, no harm happenedto him, Ahab took courage, and readily ledhis army against the king of Syria. For, as Isuppose, Jfate was too hard for him; andmade him believe that the false prophetsspake truer than the true one; that it mighttake an occasion of bringing him to his end.However, Zedekiah made horns of iron, andsaid to Ahab, that God made those horns sig­nals; that by them he should overthrow allSyria. But Micaiah replied, that Zedekiah,in a few days, should go from one secretchamber to another, to hide himself, that he might escape the punishment of his lying.Then did the king give order that they shouldtake Micaiah away, and guard him to Amon,the governor of the city; and give him no­thing but bread and water.|| Then Ahab and Jehoshaphat the king ofJerusalem took their forces, and marched toRamoth, a city of Gilead. And when theking of Syria heard of this expedition, hebrought out his army to oppose them; andpitched his camp not far from Ramoth. NowAhab and Jehoshaphat had agreed, that Ahabshould lay aside his royal robes;§ but thatthe king of Jerusalem should put on his(Ahab's) proper habit, and stand before thearmy, in order to disprove, by this artifice,what Micaiah had foretold. But Ahab's fatefound him out, without his robes. For Ben-hadad, the king of Assyria, had charged hisarmy, by the means of their commanders, tokill nobody else; but only the king of Israel.So when the Syrians, upon their joining battlewith the Israelites, saw Jehoshaphat standbefore the army, and conjectured that he wasAhab, they fell Violently upon him, and en­compassed him round. But when they werenear, and knew that it was not he, they allreturned back. And while the fight lastedfrom the morning light, till late in the evening,and the Syrians were conquerors, they killednobody; as their king had commanded them.And when they sought to kill Ahab alone,but could not find him, there was a youngnobleman belonging to king Benhadad, whosename was Naaman; he drew his bow against * These reasonings of Zedekiah, the false prophet, inorder to persuade Ahab not to believe Micaiah the trueprophet, are plausible: but, being omitted in our othercopies, we cannot now tell whence Josephus had them;whether from his own temple copy, from some otheroriginal author, or from certain ancient notes. That somesuch plausible objection was now raised against Micaiah,is very likely; otherwise Jehoshaphat, who used to dis­believe all such false prophets, could never have beeninduced to accompany Ahab in these desperate circum­stances. | There is a great dispute among the learned, as to theaccomplishment of this prophecy. At first, it was, nodoubt, intended to be literally fulfilled; but upon Ahab'srepentance, as we find below, the punishment was trans­ferred from him to his son Joram, in whom it was actuallyaccomplished; for his dead body was cast into the portionof the field of Naboth the Jezreelite, for the dogs to de­vour, 2 Kings ix. 25. Since Ahab's blood therefore waslicked by dogs, not at Jezreel, but at Samaria, it seemsnecessary that we should understand the Hebrew word which our translation renders in the place where, not asdenoting the place, but the manner in which the thing wasdone; and so the sense of the passage will be—That asdogs licked, or in like manner as dogs licked Naboth'sblood; even so shall they lick thine; observe what I say,even thine. Pool's Annotations. B. I Or Divine Providence. II 1 Kings xxii. 27. § This reading of Josephus's, and of the Septuagint,that Jehoshaphat put on, not his own, but Ahab's robe$.in order to appear to be Ahab, while Ahab was withoutany robes at all, and hoped thereby to escape his own evilfate, and disprove Micaiah's prophecy against him, is ex­ceeding probable. It gives great light also to this wholehistory; and shews, that although Ahab hoped Jehosha­phat would be mistaken for him, and run the only risk ofbeing slain in the battle, yet was he entirely disappointed:while still the escape of the good man, Jehoshaphat, andthe slaughter of the bad man, Ahab, demonstrated thegreat distinction that Divine Providence made betwixtthem.