OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK. XXVII. aide of the city facing the east. The trumpets then be­gan to sound at once, from the citadel, from the port,and from the ships which had been brought to the shoreon the side next to the open sea. At the same time ashout was raised, and a prodigious tumult purposelymade, on every side where there was very little danger.Meanwhile the consul kept his men quiet and silent.Democrates therefore, who had formerly commandedthe fleet, and who happened now to command there,perceiving every thing near him quiet, while otherparts resounded with tumult and shouting like that ofa city stormed, fearful lest, while he hesitated, the.consul might force a passage and march in his troops,carried off his party to the citadel, because the mostalarming noise proceeded from that quarter. Fabius,from the length of time, and likewise from the silencewhich prevailed, (for where, a little before, there wasan uproar among the men rousing each other, and call­ing to arms, now not a word was heard.) imagined thatthe guard was withdrawn ; he therefore ordered theladders to be brought up to that part of the wallwhere, according to the information of the contriver ofthe plot, the cohort of Bruttians held the guard. In.this place, favored and assisted by the Bruttians, theRomans first gained possession of the wall, over whichthey climbed into the city; and then the nearest gatewas broken open, that the troops might march throughin a body. These entering the town a little before day,raised a shout, and without meeting any one in arms,proceeded to the forum, having drawn on themselvesthe attention of the combatants in every quarter, whe­ther at the citadel or the harbor. 16. At the entrance of the forum a vigorous oppo­sition was made, but it was not persevered in. A Ta-<rentine was no match for a Roman, either in spirit, inarms, in warlike skill, nor yet in vigor or bodilystrength. They only discharged their javelins, andthen, scarcely waiting till the fight began, turned theirbacks; and as they were acquainted with the streetsof the city, ran different ways to their own houses, or