OCR Output OF THE BOM AN EMPIRE! 147 him in profound ignorance of the practical arts of chap. war and government; and when he awkwardly re- XV1" peated some military exercise which it was necessaryfor him to learn, he exclaimed with a sigh, "O"Plato, Plato, what a task for a philosopher!" Yeteven this speculative philosophy, which men of busi­ness are too apt to despise, had filled the mind ofJulian with the noblest precepts, and the most shin­ing examples; had animated him with the love ofvirtue, the desire of fame, and the contempt of death.The habits of temperance recommended in the schools,are still more essential in the severe discipline of acamp. The simple wants of nature regulated themeasure of his food and sleep. Rejecting with dis­dain the delicacies provided for his table, he satisfiedhis appetite with the coarse and common fare whichwas allotted to the meanest soldiers. During therigour of a Gallic winter he never suffered a fire inhis bed-chamber; and after a short and interruptedslumber, he frequently rose in the middle of thenight from a carpet spread on the floor, to despatchany urgent business, to visit his rounds, or to steal afew moments for the prosecution of his favouritestudies *. The precepts of eloquence, which' he hadhitherto practised on fancied topics of declamation,were more usefully applied to excite or to assuagethe passions of an armed multitude: and althoughJulian, from his early habits of conversation andliterature, was more familiarly acquainted with thebeauties of the Greek language, he had attained acompetent knowledge of the Latin tongue. SinceJulian was not originally designed for the characterof a legislator, or a judge, it is probable that the • The private life of Julian in Gaul, and the severe discipline which he em­braced, are displayed by Ammianus (xvi. 5.1, who professes to praise, and byJulian himself, who affects to ridicule (Mesopogon, p. 340.), a conduct, which,in a prince of the house of Constantine, might justly excite the surprise of man­kind. L 2