OCR Output ak. 958.] 30ft ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to his servant, Jeroboam; and are now herewith him to fight against those who, by God'sown determination, are to reign, and to de- Erive them of that dominion which theyave still retained; for as to the greaterpart of it, Jeroboam is unjustly in possessionof it. However, I do not suppose he willenjoy it any longer; but when he hath suf­fered that punishment which God thinks dueto him for what is past, he will leave off thetransgressions he hath been guilty of, andthe injuries he hath offered to him, andwhich he hath still continued to offer; andhath persuaded you to do the same. Yet,when you were not any further unjustlytreated by my father, than that he did notspeak to you so as to please you; and thisonly in compliance with the advice of wickedmen, you in anger forsook him, as you pre­tended; but in reality you withdrew your­selves from God, and from his laws. Althoughit had been right for you to have given soyoung a man not only some disagreeablewords; but if his youth and his unskilfulnessin affairs had led him into some unfortunateactions; and that for the sake of his fatherSolomon, and the benefits you received fromhim. For men ought to excuse the sins ofposterity, on account of the benefactions ofparents. But you considered nothing of allthis then, neither do you consider it now;but come with so great an army against us.And what is it that you depend upon forvictory? Is it upon the golden heifers, andthe altars you have erected on high places,which are demonstrations of your impiety,and not of religious worship? Or is it theexceeding multitude of your army whichgives you such good hopes? yet certainlythere is no strength in an army of many thou­sands when the war is unjust. For we oughtto place our surest hope of success againstour enemies in righteousness alone, and inpiety towards God. Which hope we justly have, since we have kept the laws from thebeginning, and have worshipped our ownGod, who was not made by hands out ofcorruptible matter; nor was he formed by awicked king, in order to deceive the multi­tude; but who is *his own workmanship,and the beginning and end of all things. Itherefore give you counsel even now to re­pent, and to take better advice, and to leaveoff the prosecution of the war; to call tomind the laws of your country, and to reflectwhat it hath been that hath advanced you toso happy a state as you are now in." This was the speech which Abijah madeto the multitude. But while he was stillspeaking, Jeroboam sent some of his soldiersprivately to surround him on certain parts ofthe camp that were not taken notice of. Andwhen he was thus within the compass of theenemy, his army was affrighted, and theircourage failed them. But Abijah encouragedthem, and exhorted them to place their hopeson God: for that he was not encompassed bythe enemy. So they all at once implored thedivine assistance; while the priests soundedwith the trumpets, and they made a shout,and fell upon their enemies; and God brakethe courage and cast down the force of theirenemies, and made Abijah's army superiorto them. For God vouchsafed them a won­derful and very famous victory; and such afslaughter was now made of Jeroboam's army,as is never recorded to have happened in anyother war; whether it were of the Greeks orof the Barbarians; for they overthrew andslew five hundred thousand of their enemies;Jand they took their strongest cities by force,and spoiled them, and besides those theydid the same to Bethel and her towns; andJeshanah and her towns. And after thisdefeat Jeroboam never recovered himselfduring the life of Abijah; who yet did notlong survive: for he reigned but three years,|jand was buried in Jerusalem, in the sepul­ * This is a strange expression in Josephus, that Godis his own workmanship, or that he made himself; con­trary to common sense, and to Christianity. Constitut.Apost. VI. 11. Perhaps he only means that he was madeby none, but was unoriginated. See Cotelerius's note onthe forecited place of the Constitutions. t By this terrible and unparalleled slaughter of 500,000men of the newly idolatrous and rebellious ten tribes,God's high displeasure and indignation against idolatryand rebellion fully appeared; the remainder were thereby seriously cautioned not to persist in them; and a kind ofbalance or equilibrium was made between the ten and thetwo tribes, for the time to come. While otherwise theperpetually idolatrous and rebellious ten tribes would natu­rally have been too powerful for the two tribes, which werepretty frequently free both from such idolatry and rebellion.Nor is there, by consequence, any reason to doubt the truthof this prodigious number slain, upon so singular an occasion. X 2 Chron. xiii. 17. II From an. 959 to 957: two years and seven months