OCR Output 168 THE DECLINE AND FALL .CHAP.XXXVI. Characterand expedition of theeunuchNarses,A. D. 552. After the loss of Germanus, the nations were pro­voked to smile, by the strange intelligence, that thecommand of the Roman armies was given to aneunuch. But the eunuch Narses * is ranked amongthe few who have rescued that unhappy name fromthe contempt and hatred of mankind. A feeble di­minutive body concealed the soul of a statesman anda warrior. His youth had been employed in themanagement of the loom and distaff, in the cares ofthe household, and the service of female luxury;but while his hands were busy, he secretly exercisedthe faculties of a vigorous and discerning mind. Astranger to the schools and the camp, he studied inthe palace to dissemble, to flatter, and to persuade;and as soon as he approached the person of the em­peror, Justinian listened with surprise and pleasureto the manly counsels of his chamberlain and privatetreasurer t. The talents of Narses were tried andimproved in frequent embassies; he led an army intoItaly, acquired a practical knowledge of the war andthe country, and presumed to strive with the geniusof Belisarius. Twelve years after his return, theeunuch was chosen to achieve the conquest whichhad been left imperfect by the first of the Romangenerals. Instead of being dazzled by vanity oremulation, he seriously declared, that unless he werearmed with an adequate force, he would never con­sent to risk his own glory, and that of his sovereign.Justinian granted to the favourite, what he mighthave denied to the hero: the Gothic war was re­kindled from its ashes, and the preparations were notunworthy of the ancient majesty of the empire. The • Procopius relates the whole series of this second Gothic war and the victoryof Narses (1. iv. c . 21. 26—35). A splendid scene! Among the six subjectsof epic poetry which Tasso revolved in his mind, he hesitated between the con­quests of Italy by Belisarius and by Narses (Hayley's Works, vol. iv. p. 70). .f The country of Narses is unknown, since he must not be confounded withthe Persarmenian.