OCR Output CHAP. 5, ROMAN HISTORY. 209 having sold his life as dear as possible. Upon the newsof his brother's disaster, the consul returned to the en­gagement, and rushing with more haste than caution,among the thickest of the epemy, he was wounded, andwith difficulty carried off the field by those about him;a circumstance which dispirited the Roman army not alittle, and inspired the enetny with a greater degree ofconfidence, who, proud that they had dispatched thelieutenant, and wounded the consul, carried all beforethem, drove the Romans back to their camp, and therebesieged them again, inferior in strength, and withoutthe least ray of hope to support them. Such was their miserable situation, when Quinctiuscame to their relief with an army of tfce Latins, Her-nici, and other foreign troops. Whilst the jEqui di­rected all their force against the Roman camp, and in­sulting the besieged, by exposing to their view the headof their lieutenant-general, Quinctius attacked them inrear, whilst, upon a signal from him at a distance, asally was made from the camp, so that the enemy wasin a great measure surrounded. No great slaughter en-isued, as they fled in straggling parties, through the Ro«man territories. Whilst they were straggling thus, and plunderingby the way, P'osth'umius, with some detachments, whichhe had posted in proper places, gave them a very warm.reception : and, after they had escaped the fury of Post-humius.they fell in with Quinctius, who, after his victory,was returning with the wounded consul. Here the con­sular army took full revenge for their lieutenant-generaland his cohort*, as well as the wound received by theconsul. The slaughter was great on both sides, forthose tiroes. It is indeed, next to impossible, to ascertain with pre­cision, at this distance of time, what numbers were en­gaged, or fell: although Antias Valerius finds no dif­ficulty in condescending on the exact number. Accord­ing to his account, there fell of the Romans, in the coun.try of the Hernici, five 'thousand three hundred. Ofthose jEqui, who in scattered parties, pillaged the Ro­man territories, Posthnmius dispatched two thousand fourhundred: but it was Quinctius v«ho gave them the fatal