OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 37 had been respectfully, perhaps sincerely, subscribed:but they protested, in two successive debates, that it wasneither expedient nor lawful to transgress the sacredlandmarks which had been fixed at Nice, Constanti­nople, and Ephesus, according to the rule of Scriptureand tradition. At length they yielded to the impor­tunities of their masters; but their infallible decree, afterit had been ratified with deliberate votes and vehementacclamations, was overturned in the next session by theopposition of the legates and their oriental friends. Itwas in vain that a multitude of episcopal voices repeatedin chorus, The definition of the fathers is orthodox andimmutable! The heretics are now discovered! Anathemato the Nestorians! Let them depart from the synod! Letthem repair to Rome /" The legates threatened, theemperor was absolute, and a committee of eighteen bi­shops prepared a new decree, which was imposed onthe reluctant assembly. In the name of the fourth ge­neral council, the Christ in one person, but in two na­tures, was announced to the Catholic world: an invi­sible line was drawn between the heresy of Apollinarisand the faith of St. Cyril; and the road to paradise,a bridge as sharp as a razor, was suspended over theabyss by the master-hand of the theological artist.During ten centuries of blindness and servitude, Europereceived her religious opinions from the oracle of theVatican; and the same doctrine, already varnished withthe rust of antiquity, was admitted without dispute intothe creed of the reformers, who disclaimed the supremacyof the Roman pontiff. The synod of Chalcedon still tri­umphs in the Protestant churches; but the ferment ofcontroversy.has subsided, and the most pious Christiansof the present day are ignorant or careless of their ownbelief concerning the mystery of the incarnation. * E0»mr i i ift nfvniru * amfxffuS* , . . u arnXiyorric if.anpoi yntmai, o'xmXiycmc Nitrrtfiaw ura, 01 airiMywrtj lit Po|unr iuriXfW». (Concil. torn. 4. p.1449.) Evagrius and Liberatus present only the placid face of the synod, anddiscreetly sink- over those embers suppoeitos cinere dole-so.