OCR Output INDIA. 45 INDIA. •sow). (Strab. xt. pp. 711—714; Clem. Alex.Strom. L 131.) Again Daimachus, who lived for akog time at Palibothra (Strab. ii. p. 70), wrote awork upon India, which, though according to Strabofall of fables, must also hare contained much valu­able information. Patrocles, whom Strabo evidentlydeemed a writer of veracity (Strab. ii. p. 70), astlie admiral of Seleucus, sailed upon the IndianOcean, and left an account, in which he stated hisbelief that India was the same breadth that Mc-gasthenes had maintained (Strab. ii. p. 69. xv.f. 689); but also that it could be circumnavigated—an erroneous view, which seems to have arisen fromthe idea, that the Caspian Sea and the NorthernOcean were connected. (Strab. ii. p. 74, xi. p. 518.) With the establishment of the mathematicalschools at Alexandria, commenced a new aera inGrecian geography; the first systematic arrangementof the divisions of the earth's surface being made byEratosthenes (b.c. 276—161), who drew a series ofparallels of latitude—at unequal distances, however—through a number of places remotely distant fromone another. According to his plan, his mostsouthern parallel was extended through Taprobaneand tbe Cinnamon coast (the SE. end of the ArabianGmlf); his second parallel (at an interval of 3400stadia) passed though the S. coast of India, themouths of the Indus and Meroe; his third (at aninterval of 5000 stadia) passed through Palibothraand Syene; his fourth (at a similar interval) con­nected the Upper Ganges, Indus, and Alexandria;hu fifth (at an interval of 3750 stadia) passedthruugb Thina (the capital of the Seres), the wholeehaio of tbe Emodus, Imaus, Paropamisus, and theisland of Rhodes. (Strab. i. p. 68, ii. pp. 113—132.)At tbe same time be drew seven parallels of lon­gitude (or meridians), the first of which passedthrough the E. coast of China, the second throughtbe mouths of the Ganges, and the third throughthose of the Indus. His great geographical errorwas that the intersection of his meridians and lati­tudes formed right angles. (Strab. ii. pp. 79, 80,92,93.) The shape of the inhabited portion of theglobe he compared to a Macedonian CMamyi ex­tended. (Strab. ii. p. 118, xi. p. 519; Macrob.&m. Sap. iL 9.) The breadth of India betweentbe Ganges and Indus he made to be 16,000 stadia.Taprobane, like his predecessors, he held to be 5000stadia long. Hipparchus (about b. c. 150), the lather of Greekastronomy, followed Patrocles, Daimachus, andMegasthenes, in his view of the shape of India;making it, however, not so wide at tbe S. as Era­tosthenes had made it (Strab. ii. pp. 77,81), butmncb wider towards the N., even to tbe extent offrom 20,000 to 30,000 stadia (Strab. ii. p. 68). Ta­probane be held not to be an island, but the com­mencement of another continent, which extendedonward to the S. and W.,— following, probably, theidea which had prevailed since the time of Aristotle,that Africa and SE. India were connected on theother side of the Indian Ocean. (Mela, iii. 7. § 7;Pun. vi. 22. a. 24.) Artemidorus (about n. c. 100)states that the Ganges rises in the Mantes Emodi,flews S. till it arrives at Gauge, and then E. byPalibothra to iU mouths (Strab. xv. p. 719): Ta­probane he considered to be about 7000 stadiakeg and 500 broad (Steph. IS.). The wholebnadtb of India, from the Ganges to the Indus, heBade to be 16,000 stadia. (Plin. vi. 19. s. 22.) The greater pari of all that was known up to his time was finally reduced into a consistent shape byStrabo (b. c. 66—a. d. 36). His view of Indiawas not materially different from that which hadbeen the received opinion since Eratosthenes. Heheld that it was the greatest and most Kastern landin the world, and the Ganges its greatest stream(ii. p. 130, xv. pp. 690, 719); that it stretched S.as far as the parallel of Meroe, but not so far N. asHipparchus thought (ii. pp. 71, 72,75); that it wasin shape like a lozenge, the S. and E. being thelongest sides. Its greatest breadth was 16,000stadia on tbe E., its least 13,000 on the W.; itsgreatest length on the S., 19,000 stadia. Belowthe S. coast he placed Taprobane, which was, in hisopinion, not less than Great Britain (ii. p. 130,xv. p. 690). Pliny the Elder and Pomponius Mela.who were contemporaries, added somewhat to thegeographical knowledge previously acquired, by in­corporating into their works the results of differentexpeditions sent out during the earlier emperors.Thus, Pliny follows Agrippa in making India 3300M. P. long, and 2300 M. P. broad, though he him­self suggests a different and shorter distance (vi.17. s. 21); while, after Seneca, he reckoned that itcontained 118 peoples and 60 rivers. The Emodus,Imaus, Paropamisus, and Caucasus, he connected inone continued chain from E. to W., stating that S.of these great mountains, the land was, like Egypt,one vast plain (vi. 18. s. 22), comprehending manywastes and much fruitful land (vi. 20. s. 23).For a fuller notice of Taprobane than had been givenby previous writers, he was indebted to the ambas­sadors of the emperor Claudius, from whom helearnt that it had towards India a length of 10,000stadia, and 500 towns,—one, the capital, Palaesi-mundum, of vast size. The sea between it and thecontinent is, he says, very shallow, and the distancefrom the nearest point a journey of four days (vi. 22.s. 24). The measurements of the distances roundthe coast of India he gives with some minuteness,and in some instances with less exaggeration thanhis predecessors. With Marinus of Tyre and Claudius Ptolemaeus,in tbe middle of the second century, the classicalknowledge of geography may be said to terminate.The latter, especially, has, in this branch of know­ledge, exercised an influence similar to that ofAristotle in the domain of the moral and physicalsciences. Both writers took a more comprehensiveview of India than had been taken before, owing insome degree to the journey of a Macedonian tradernamed Titianus, whose travels extended along theTaurus to the capital of China (Ptol. i. 11. § 7),and to the voyage cf a sailor named Alexander, whofound his way across the Indian Ocean to Cattigara(Ptol. i. 14. § 1), which Ptolemy places in lat. 8°30" S., and between 170° and 180° E. long. Hence,his idea that the Indian Ocean was a vast centralsea, with land to the S. Taprobane he held to befour times as big as it really is (vii. 4), and thelargest island in the world; and he mentions acluster of islands to the NE. and S. (in all pro­bability, those now known as the Maldives andZoc-ciulives). In the most eastern part of India, be­yond the Gulf of Bengal, which he terms theGolden Chersonesus, he speaks of Iabadius andManiolae; the first of which is probably that nowknown as Java, while the name of the second hasbeen most likely preserved in Manilla. The maindivisions of India into India intra Gangem andI India extra Gangem, have been adopted by the