OCR Output PALAESTINA.TALAESTINA. 521 tr'vamta.vrtetwetn them. In many places theseti>& in like nlk. About this port of the Jordanut k*w piunmifcht be perhaps 1 j or 2 miles broad,i^wfalloc the matt rank and luxuriant vegetation,Lui joajle, tint in a few spots only can anythingifjruch iti hanks. Below Beisan the higher ter-m «o ouVr side begin to close in, and to narrowis 6ri inn below; the hills become irreguluru. islr partly cultivated; and by degrees the»u*« liktr resumes its original form. The sug­ar, aor* of the river is still prettily marked byjfct cl rrttn foiiace an its banks, as it veers from[:• (id. od mh tide to those on the other. Thisfill cisrictcr of the river and of the Ghor is ■ ■Juno u lit Dead Sea, the mountains on either»* -A tie upper valley approaching or receding,m 4* rirer ninding in tie lower valley betweenbe* tji of joft limestone, in some places not lessma 300 or 400 fret high, having many shallows«u m Jarre (ilk The American expedition juli to the iafi)nnation contained in the paper4 vr esterpriaing countryman, who only survivedi» irjl« <nr month. Lieut. Lynch's report, how-w*. tji ananru all Lieut. Molyneux's observa-»c»: ird be TOiiu up the results of the survey initiSirng sentence:—" The great secret of theasmnn betveen lake Tiberias and the Dead Seaiuni ky ibe tortuous coarse of the Jordan. In»•»■« of (0 miles of latitude and 4 or 5 miles • k.^aJe. the Jordan traverses at least 200 miles... Wt hive plunged down twenty-seven threaten- • ^ah. besides a great many of lesser magni-■».' (Lrnch. Narrative of ike United Statu'bV-A. fa tie Jordan, <fe., p. 265.) It is satis-s**7 aw to find that tie trigonometrical survey»lis Am attached to the American expedition•a*7* tie rendu arrived at by Lieut. Syinonds. Theological Review for 1848, pp. ■ • 'hnvxt that these phaenomena have an im- innn? co the historical notices of the river;• a canons to observe (as Mr. Petermann has))> :o examining the results of De Bcrtou,'.and Von VVildenbruch, that the depressionbead Sea and of the lako of Tiberias in- • 11 c 1 cbrunological order (with only one excep-M. vuti mar perhaps indicate that a continual * vxlz on in the level of the entire Ghor, espe-!" : .i veil proved that the whole Jordan valley,a hkn, not only has been bnt still is sub-ritxitc action; as Uussegger has remarked> awinuins between Jerusalem and theLa tit valley uf the Jordan itself, and thoseDead Sea, bear unequivocal evidence of'arwary, ssch as disruptions, upheaving,**-&e^— pnots of which agency are stillat b eaauritul earthquakes, hotsprings, andof uphak. 'lae earliest historical facts connected witha us periodical overflow during the season(Jusk. iii. IS; 1 Chron, xii. 15,L la. 5; see Blunts Undesigned Coin-FP- 113. 1U); and allusion is made to this'rap-jvity. (Eeclus. xxiv. 26; Aris-■* ad PUkcratrm.) The river in theHt Jericho was raited by the writer at all■w'lhsysar, bat he rjever witnessed an over,■v vvrv Uie Bedouins who inhabit its banksth» phaenomenon. The American•eat <iimn the river in the month ofv»aj »we ,g Jericho at Kaster, yet they wit- nessed nothing of the kind, though Lient. Lynchremarks, "the river is in the latter stage of afreshet; a few weeks earlier or later, and passagewould have been impracticable." Considerablyfurther north, however, not far below Beisan, Lieut.Molyneux remarked 14 a quantity of deposit in theplain of the Jordan, and the marks of water invarious places at a distance from the river, fromwhich it was evident that the Jordan widely over­flows its banks; and the sheikh informed him thatin winter it is occasionally half a mile across; whichaccounts for the luxuriant vegetation in this part ofthe Ghor" (2. c. p. 117). It would appear fromthis that the subsidence of the basin of the DeadSea and the more rapid fall of the Jordan consequentupon it, which has also cut out for it a deeperchannel, has prevented the overflow except in thoseparts where the fall is not so rapid. Another change may also be accounted for in thesame manner. "The fords of the Jordan" wereonce few and far between, as is evident from thehistorical notices. (Joth. ii. 7: Judges, iii. 28, vii.24, xii. 5.) But Lieut. Molyneux says of the upperpart of its course, " I am within the mark when Isay that there are many hundreds of places wherewe might have walked across, without wetting ourfeet, on the Urge rocks and stones" (p. 115). The thick jungle on the banks of the river wasformerly a covert for wild beasts, from which theywere dislodged by the periodical overflow of theriver; and "the lion coming up from the swelling ofJordan" is a familiar figure in the prophet Jere­miah (xlix. 19, 1. 44). It was supposed until veryrecently that not only the lion but all other wildbeasts were extinct in Palestine, or that the wildboar was the sole occupant of the jungle; but theseamen in company with Lieut. Molyneux reportedhaving seen " two tigers and a boar" in their pas­sage down the stream (p. 118). The principal tributaries of the Jordan join it fromthe east; the most considerable are tho Yarmuk[Gaoara] and the Zerka [Jabbok], This river is principally noted in sacred historyfor the miraculous passage of the children of Israelunder Joshua (iii.), — the miracle was repeatedtwice afterwards in the passage of Elijah and Klisha(2 Kings, ii. 8, 14),—and for the baptism of ourLord {St. Matt. iii. &c). It is honoured withscanty notice by the classical geographers. Stratareckons it the largest river of Syria (xvi. p. 755).Pliny is somewhat more communicative. He speaksof Paneas as its source, consistently with Josephus."Jordanis amnis oritur e fonte Paneade, qui nomendedit Caesareae ; amnis amoenus, et quatenus lo-coram situs patitur ambitiosus, accolisque se prae-bens, velut invitus. Asphaltiden lacnm dirumnatura petit, a quo postremo ebibitur, aquasquelaudatas perdit pestilentibus mistas. Ergo ubi primaconvallium fuit occasio in lacum se fundit, quernpltires Genesaram vocant, etc." (Hist. Nat. v. 15.)Tacitus, though more brief, is still more accurate,as he notices the Bahr llulth as well as the sea ofTiberias. "Nec Jordanes pelago accipitur: sedunum atque alteram lacum, integer perfluit: tertioretinetur." (Hist. v. 6.) The ancient name for El-Ghor was Aulow, andthe modern native name of the Jordan is Es.SJiiriah. (Karl von Raumcr, Palastina, 2nd ed., 1850,pp. 48—54, 449—452; Hitter, Erdkunde, ifc. WestAsien, vol. 15, pp. 181—556, A. D. 1850, Oer