OCR Output 334 THE DECEIVE AND FALL chap. "that I have neither falsehood on my tongue, norxxxix. '' treachery in my heart." As soon as he rose from* his knees, he accelerated the labour of the bridge,and despatched an envoy to proclaim what he nolonger wished to conceal. "Inform the emperor,"said the perfidious Baian, " that Sirmium is invested"on every side. Advise his prudence to withdraw"the citizens and their effects, and to resign a city"which it is now impossible to relieve or defend."Without the hope of relief, the defence of Sirmiumwas prolonged above three years: the walls werestill untouched; but famine was inclosed within thewalls, till a merciful capitulation allowed the escapeof the naked and hungry inhabitants. Singidunum,at the distance of fifty miles, experienced a morecruel fate: the buildings were razed, and the van­quished people was condemned to servitude andexile. Yet the ruins of Sirmium are no longervisible; the advantageous situation of Singidunumsoon attracted a new colony of Sclavonians, and theconflux of the Save and Danube is still guarded bythe fortifications of Belgrade, or the White City, sooften and so obstinately disputed by the Christianand Turkish arms*. From Belgrade to the wallsof Constantinople a line may be measured of sixhundred miles: that line was marked with flamesand with blood; the horses of the Avars were al­ternately bathed in the Euxine and the Adriatic;and the Roman pontiff, alarmed by the approach ofa more savage enemy, was reduced to cherish theLombards as the protectors of Italy. The despairof a captive, whom his country refused to ransom,disclosed to the Avars the invention and practice ofmilitary enginest, but in the first attempts, they * See d'Anville, in the Memoires de l'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom, xxviii. p. 412 443. The Sclavonic name of Belgrade is mentioned in the xth century by Constantine Porphyrogenitus; the Latin appellation of Alba Grccca is used bythe Franks in the beginning of the ixth (p. 414). ■f Even the helepolis, or moveable turret. Theopliylact, 1. ii. 16, 17-