OCR Output 268 THEHISTORY B o o fc and the fame law occafioned feditions at home; and. '_, thefe would have proceeded to ftill greater lengths,V.R. i?7. fo highly were people's pafilons inflamed, but that, asB.C.455. if it had been concerted for the purpofe, news wasbrought, that by an attack of the ,fcquans, in thenight, the garrifon at Corbio was cut off. The con-fuls called the fenate together, and were ordered tomake a hafty levy of troops, and lead them to Al-gidum. The conteft about the law was now laidafide, and a new ftruggle began about the levy; inwhich the confular authority was in danger of beingoverpowered, by the force of the tribunitian privi足leges, when their fears were more effectually rouledby another alarm, of the Sabine army having comedown into the Roman territories to plunder, andthence advanced to the city. This ftruck fuch ter足ror, that the tribunes fuffered the troops to be en-lifted, yet not without a ftipulation, that fmce theyhad been baffled for five years, and their office, asit ftood, was but a fmall protection to the commons,there mould for the future be ten tribunes of the peo足ple appointed: neceflity extorted this concefiion fromthe fenate. They only made one exception; that thepeople fhould nor, hereafter, re-elect the fame tri足bunes. An afiembly was inftantly held for theejection of the tribunes, left, if the war was onceended, they might be difappointed in that, as inother matters. In the thirty-fixth year, from the firftcreation of the tribunes of the people, the numberten were tle&ed, two out of each of the clalTes; andit was eftablifhed as a rule, that they fhould fromthenceforth be elected in the fame manner. Thelevy being then made, Minucius marched againft theSabines, but did not come up with them. Horatius,after the .ffiquans had put the garrifon of Corbio'to the fword, and had alfo taken Ortona, broughtthem to an engagement in the diftrict of A'.gidum,killed a great number, and drove them not only out* of that dillric~t, but from Corbio and Ortona. Corbio he