OCR Output 540 [book TV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ■^ Herod now seemed to have healed the di­visions in his family. Yet was he not withoutsuspicion; as is frequently the case of peopleseeming to be reconciled to one another; butas Alexandra had already made attemptstending to innovations, so did he fear that shewould go on therein, if she found a fit oppor­tunity for so doing. So he gave a command,that she should dwell in the palace, and med­dle with no public affairs. Her guards alsowere so careful, that nothing she did in pri­vate life every day was concealed. Thesehardships gradually put her out of patience,and she began to hate Herod. For as shehad the pride of a woman to the utmost de­gree, she had great indignation at this sus­picious guard that was about her, as desirousrather to undergo any thing that could befallher, than to be deprived of her liberty ofspeech; and under the notion of an honoraryguard, to live in a state of slavery and terror.She therefore sent to Cleopatra, and made along complaint of the circumstances she wasin; and entreated her to do her utmost for herassistance. Cleopatra hereupon advised herto take her son with her, and come away im­mediately into Egypt. This advice pleasedher: and she had this contrivance for gettingaway. She got two coffins made, as if theywere to carry away two dead bodies; and putherself into one, and her son into the other;and gave orders to such of her servants, asknew of her intentions, to carry them awayin the night time. Now their road was to bethence to the sea side: and there was a shipready to carry them into Egypt. Now Esop,one of her servants, happened to meet withSabbion, one of her friends; and spake of thiomatter to him: as thinking he had known ofit before. When Sabbion knew this, (whohad formerly been an enemy of Herod's, andbeen esteemed one of those that laid snaresfor, and gave the poison to, his father Antipa-ter;) he expected that this discovery wouldchange Herod's hatred into kindness. So hetold the king of this private stratagem ofAlexandra's. Whereupon he suffered her toproceed to the execution of her project, and caught her in the very fact. But still hepassed by her offence: and though he had agreat mind to do it, he durst not inflict anything that was severe upon her. For he knewthat Cleopatra would not bear that he shouldhave her accused, on account of her hatredto him; but made a shew as if it were ratherthe generosity of his soul, and his great mode­ration, that made him forgive them. How­ever he fully proposed to himself to put thisyoung man out of the way, by one means orother. But he thought he might probably bebetter concealed, if he did it not immediatelyafter what had lately happened. Now, upon the approach of the feast oftabernacles, which is a festival very much ob­served among us, he let those days pass over:and both he and the rest of the people werevery merry. Yet did the envy which at thistime arose in him cause him to hasten theexecution of his design. For when this youthAristobulus, who was now in the seventeenthyear of his age, went up to the altar, accord­ing to the law, to offer the sacrifices, and thiswith the ornaments of his high-priesthood:and when he *performed the sacred offices,he seemed to be exceeding comely; andtaller than men usually were at that age; andto exhibit, in his countenance, a great deal ofthat high family he was sprung from; and awarm zeal and affection towards him ap­peared among the people; and the memory ofthe actions of his grandfather Aristobulus wasfresh in their minds. And their affections gotso far the mastery of them, that they couldnot forbear shewing their inclinations to him.They at once rejoiced, and were confounded,and mingled with good wishes their joyfulacclamations which they made to him: tillthe good will of the multitude was made tooevident: and they more rashly proclaimed thehappiness they had received from his family,than was prudent under the existing govern­ment. Hereupon Herod resolved to com­plete what he had intended against the youngman. When therefore the festival was over,and he was feasting at fJericho, with Alex­andra; who entertained them there; he was * This entirely confutes the Talmudists; who, as Re-land here notes, pretend that no one under twenty yearsof age could officiate as high-priest among the Jews. t A Hebrew chronicle, cited by Reland, says, thisdrowning was at Jordan, not at Jericho; and this even when he quotes Josephus. Which reading of Jericho isyet fully confirmed by the last chapter of these Antiqui­ties. I suspect the transcriber of the Hebrew chroniclemistook the name, and wrote Jordan for Jericho.