OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 45 e. g. between the voluntary and involuntary members of theAchaean confederacy—were by no means composed. If theRomans, as seems to have been the case, believed what theydesired and confided in the calm which for the moment pre­vailed, they were soon to learn that the younger generationin Hellas was in no respect better or wiser than the older.The Greeks directly sought an opportunity of picking aquarrel with the Romans. In order to screen a foul transaction, Diaeus, the president Achainnof the Achaean league for the time being, about 605 threw war- [149-out in the diet the assertion, that the separate privileges con­ceded by the Achaean league to the Lacedaemonians as mem­bers—viz., their exemption from the Achaean criminal juris­diction, and the right to send separate embassies to Rome—were not at all guaranteed to them by the Romans. It wasan audacious falsehood; but the diet naturally believed whatit wished, and, when the Achaeans showed themselves readyto make good their assertions with arms in hand, the weakerSpartans yielded for the time, or, to speak more correctly, thosewhose surrender was demanded by the Achaeans left thecity to appear as complainants before the Roman senate. Thesenate answered as usual that it would send a commission toinvestigate the matter; but instead of reporting this replythe envoys stated in Achaia as well as in Sparta, and inboth cases falsely, that the senate had decided in their favour.The Achaeans, who felt more than ever their equalitywith Rome as allies and their political importance onaccount of the aid which the league had just rendered inThessaly against the Pseudo-Philip, advanced in 606 under 148.their strategus Damocritus into Laconia: in vain a Romanembassy on its way to Asia, at the suggestion of Metellus,admonished them to keep the peace and to await the com­missioners of the senate. A battle took place, in whichnearly 1000 Spartans fell, and Sparta might have been takenif Damocritus had not been equally incapable as an officer andas a statesman. He was superseded, and his successorDiaeus, the instigator of all this mischief, zealously continuedthe war, while at the same time he gave to the dreadedcommandant of Macedonia assurances of the full loyalty ofthe Achaean league. Thereupon the long-expected Romancommission made its appearance, with Aurelius Orestes atits head; hostilities were now suspended, and the Achaeandiet assembled at Corinth to receive its communications.