OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 53 Justinian, remember your baptism and your creed! Letnot your gray hairs be defiled with heresy. Recallyour fathers from exile, and your followers from perdi­tion. You cannot be ignorant, that Italy and Gaul,Spain and Africa, already deplore your fall, and ana­thematize your name. Unless, without delay, you destroywhat you have taught; unless you exclaim, with a loudvoice, I have erred, I have sinned, anathema to Nestorius,anathema to Eutyches, you will deliver your soul to thesame flames in which they will eternally burn. He diedand made no sign.g His death restored in some de­gree the peace of the church, and the reigns of his foursuccessors, Justin, Tiberius, Maurice, and Phocas, aredistinguished by a rare, though fortunate, vacancy, inthe ecclesiastical history of the east.11The Mono- The faculties of sense and reason are least. ca-t^era0011 pable of acting on themselves; the eye is mostA. D. 629: inaccessible to the sight, the soul to the thought;yet we think, and even feel, that one will, a sole principleof action, is essential to a rational and conscious being.When Heraclius returned from the Persian war, the or­thodox hero consulted his bishops, whether the Christwhom he adored, of one person, but of two natures, wasactuated by a single or a double will. They replied in thesingular, and the emperor was encouraged to hope thatthe Jacobites of Egypt and Syria might be reconciled bythe profession of a doctrine, most certainly harmless, andmost probably true, since it was taught even by the Nes-torians themselves.' The experiment was tried without *Nicetius, bishop of Treves: (Concil. torn. 6. p. 511—513.) he himself, likemost of the Galilean prelates, (Grcgor. Epist. lib. 7. ep. 5. in Concil- torn. 6. p.1007.)was separated from the communion of the four patriarchs by his refusal to condemnthe three chapters. Baronius almost pronounces the damnation of Justinian.(A. D. 565. no. 6.) k After relating the last heresy of Justinian, (lib. 4. c. 39—41.) and the edict ofhis successor, (lib. 5. c. 3.) the remainder of the history of Evagrius is filled withi i \ i I, instead of ecclesiastical events. 1 This extraordinary, and perhaps inconsistent, doctrine of the Nestorians, hadbeen observed by La Croze, (Christianisme des Indcs, torn. 1. p. 19, 20.) and ismore fully exposed by Abulpharagius (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 292.) Hist. Dy­nast, p. 21. vers. Latin Pocock), and Asscman himself, (torn. 4. p. 218.) They seem