OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 471 who appeared to his disciples after the third day from hisdeath, alive again, according to the writings of the prophets,who foretold these and innumerable other miraculous eventsconcerning him; from whom began the congregation ofChristians, and hath penetrated among all sorts of men : nordoes there remain any nation in the Roman world, whichcontinues strangers to his religion. If the Jews do not be­lieve us, let them at least believe their own writers. Josephus,whom they esteem a very great man, hath said this, and yethath he spoken truth after such a manner, and so far was hismind wandered from the right way, that even he was not abeliever, as to what he himself said: but thus he spake inorder to deliver historical truth, because he thought it notlawful for him to deceive, while yet he was no believer, be­cause of the hardness of his heart, and his perfidious intention.However, it was no prejudice to the truth that he was not abeliever; but this adds more weight to his testimony, thatwhile he was an unbeliever, and unwilling this should be true,he has not denied it to be so. About A. D. 400. Hieronym. de Vir. lllustr. in Jose-pho. — Josephus, in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, mostexpressly acknowledges, that Christ was slain by the Phari­sees on account of the greatness of his miracles; and thatJohn the Baptist was truly a prophet; and that Jerusalemwas demolished on account of the slaughter of James theapostle. Now he wrote concerning our Lord after this man­ner : — At the same time there was Jesus, a wise man, if yetit be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderfulworks, a teacher of those who willingly receive the truth. Hohad many followers both of the Jews and of the Gentiles ; hewas believed to be Christ. And when, by the envy of ourprincipal men, Pilate had condemned him to the cross, thisnotwithstanding, those who had loved him at first persevered,for he appeared to them alive on the third day, as the oraclesof the prophets had foretold many of these, and other won­derful things concerning him: and the sect of Christians, souamed from him, are not extinct at this day. About A. D. 410. Isodorus Pelusiota, the Scholar of