OCR Output * OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379 ■beauty of the female captives, some of whom were afterwards sold for a thousandpieces of gold. The career, though not the zeal, of Akbah was checked by theprospect of a boundless ocean. He spurred his horse into the waves, and raisinghis eyes to heaven, exclaimed with the tone of a fanatic—"Great God! if mycourse were not stopped by this sea, I would still go on, to the unknown kingdomsof the west, preaching the unity of thy holy name, and putting to the sword therebellious nations who worship any other gods than thee."(l) Vet this Mahome­tan Alexander, who sighed for new worlds, was unable to preserve his recent con­quests. By the universal defection of the Greeks and Africans, he was recalledfrom the shores of the Atlantic, and the surrounding multitudes left him only theresource of an honourable death. The last scene was dignified by an example ofnational virtue. An ambitious chief, who had disputed the command and failedin the attempt, was led about as a prisoner in the camp of the Arabian general.The insurgents had trusted to his discontent and revenge; he disdained their offersand revealed their designs. In the hour of danger, the grateful Akbah unlockedhis fetters, and advised him to retire; he chose to die under the banner of hisrival. Embracing as friends and martyrs, they unsheathed their scimitars, broketheir scabbards, and maintained an obstinate combat till they fell by each other'sside on the last of their slaughtered countrymen. The third general or governorof Africa, Zobeir, avenged and encountered the fate of his predecessor. He van­quished the natives in many battles; he was overthrown by a powerful army, whichConstantinople had sent to the. relief of Carthage. It had been the frequent practice of the Moorish tribes to join the invaders, toshare the plunder, to profess the faith, and to revolt to their savage state of inde­pendence and idolatry, on the first retreat or misfortune of the Moslems. Theprudence of Akbah had proposed to found an Arabian colony in the heart ofAfrica; a citadel that might curb the levity of the barbarians, a place of refuge tosecure, against the accidents of war, the wealth and the families of the Saracens.With this view, and under the modest title of the station of a caravan, he plantedthis colony in the fiftieth year of the Hegira. In its present decay, Cairoan(2)still holds the second rank in the kingdom of Tunis, from which it is distant aboutfifty miles to the south;(3) its inland situation, twelve miles westward of the sea,has protected the city from the Greek and Sicilian fleets. When the wild beastsand serpents were extirpated, when the forest, or rather wilderness, was cleared,the vestiges of a Roman town were discovered in a sandy plain: the vegetable foodof Cairoan is brought from afar; and the scarcity of springs constrains the inhabi­tants to collect in cisterns and reservoirs a precarious supply of rain-water. Theseobstacles were subdued by the industry of Akbah; lie traced a circumstance ofthree thousand and six hundred paces, which he encompassed with a brick wall;in the space of five years, the governor's palace was surrounded with a sufficientnumber of private habitations; a spacious mosch was supported by five hundredcolumns of granite, porphyry, and Numidian marble; and Cairoan became theseat of learning as well as of empire. But these were the glories of a later age;the new colony was shaken by the successive defeats of Akbah and Zobeir, andthe western expeditions were again interrupted by the civil discord of the Arabianmonarchy. The son of the valiant Zobeir maintained a war of twelve years, asiege of seven months, against the house of Ommiyah. Abdallah was said to unitethe fierceness of the lion with the subtlety of the fox; but if he inherited the cou­rage, he was devoid of the generosity of his father. (4) The return of domestic peace allowed the caliph Abdalmalek to resume theconquest of Africa; the standard was delivered to Hassan, governor of Egypt, andthe revenue of that kingdom, with an army of forty thousand men, was conse- (1) Otter (p. 119.) has given the strong tone of fiinaticiim to this exclamation, which Cardonne (p. 37,) hatsoftened to a pious wish of preaching the Koran. Yet they had both the same text of Novairi before their eyes. (2) The foundation of Cairoan is mentioned by Oekley; (Hist, of the Saracens, vol. ii. p. 129,130.) and the si­tuation, mosch, &c.of the city, are described by Leo Afric«nus.flbl. 75.) Marmot, (torn. ii. p. 532.) and Shaw,(p. 115.) f3) A portentous, though frequent, mistake has been the confounding, from a slight similitude of name, theCyrene of the Greeks, and the Cairoan of the Arabs, two cities which are separated by an interval of a thousandmiles along the sea-coast. The great Thuonua has not escaped this fault, the less excusable, as it is connectedwith a formal and elaborate description of Africa. (Historiar. lib. vii. e. 2. in torn. ii. p. 240. edit. Buckley.) (4) Besides the Arabic chronicles of Abolfcda, Elmacin, and Abu!p:taragiils, finder the seventy-third year ofthe Hegira, we may consult d'Hrrbeiot.rBibtiot. Orient, p. 7.) and Oekley. (Hist, of (he Saracens, vol. ii. p, 339—349.) The latter has given the last and pathetic dialogue between Abflaliah und h'.s mother; but he has forgota physical effect of her grief for his death, the retai n, at the age of ninety, aud fatal consequences, of fiermenses.