OCR Output Chap. XL] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 399 immediately or afterwards made good by the Roman ex­chequer. Nevertheless these requisitions became, if not inthe theory of state-law, at any rate practically one of themost oppressive burdens of the provincials; and the moreso, that the amount of compensation was ordinarily settledby the government or by the governor after a one-sidedfashion. "We meet indeed with several legislative restric­tions on this dangerous right of requisition of the Romanchief magistrate: for instance, the rule already mentioned,that in Spain there should not be taken from the countrypeople by requisitions of grain more than the twentiethsheaf, and that the price of this should be equitably settled(ii. 212); the fixing of a maximum quantity of grain to bedemanded by the governor for the wants of himself and hisretinue; the previous adjustment of a definite and highrate of compensation for the grain which was frequently re­quired, at least from Sicily, for the wants of the capital. But,while by such rules the pressure of those requisitions on theeconomy of the communities and of individuals in the pro­vince was probably mitigated here and there, it was by nomeans removed. In extraordinary crises this pressure un­avoidably increased and often went beyond all bounds, forthen in fact the requisitions not unfrequently assumed theform of a punishment imposed or that of voluntary contri­butions enforced, and compensation was thus wholly with­held. Thus Sulla in 670-671 compelled the provincials 84-83.of Asia Minor, who certainly had very gravely offendedagainst Rome, to furnish to every common soldier quarteredamong them forty-fold pay (per day 16 denarii = 10*.) to everycenturion seventy-five-fold pay, in addition to clothing andmeals along with the right to invite guests at pleasure; thus• the same Sulla soon afterwards imposed a general contribu­tion on the client and subject communities (P. 371), inwhich case nothing, of course, was said of repayment. Further the local public burdens are not to be left out of Loral bur-view. They must have been, comparatively, very consider- dens-able;* for the costs of administration, the keeping of thepublic buildings in repair, and generally all civil expenseswere borne by the local budget, and the Roman government * For example, in Judaea the town of Joppa paid 26,075 modii of corn, theother Jews the tenth sheaf to the native princes; to which fell to be added thetemple-tribute and the payment to Sidon destined for the Romans. In Sicilytoo, in addition to the Roman tenth, a very considerable local taxation w*araised from property.