OCR Output 178 [book xm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. whatsoever his army wanted in great plenty,and marched along with him when he madean expedition against the Parthians. Ofwhich Nicolaus of Damascus is a witness forus: who in his history writes thus, "WhenAntiochus had erected a trophy at the riverLycus, upon his conquest of Indates, the ge­neral of the Parthians, he stayed there twodays. It was at the desire of Hyrcanus, theJew: because it was such a festival derivedto them from their forefathers, whereon thelaw of the Jews did not allow them to travel."And he did not speak falsely in saying so:for that festival, which we call Pentecost,did then fall out to be the next day to thesabbath. Nor is it *lawful for us to journeyeither on a sabbath day, or on a festival.But when Antiochus joined battle with Ar-saces, king of Parthia, he lost a great part ofhis army; and was himself slain. And hisbrother Demetrius succeeded in the kingdomof Syria, by the permission of Arsaces; whofreed him from his captivity, at the sametime that Antiochus attacked Parthia. CHAP. IX. OF THE EXPEDITION OF HYRCANUS AGAINST SVRIA; AND HIS CONCLUSION OF A LEAOUE WITH THE ROMANS. ALSO OF THE DEATH OF KING DEMETRIUS AND ALEX­ANDER. HEN Hyrcanus fheard of the death ofAntiochus, he presently made an ex w pedition against Jthe cities of Syria; hopingto find them destitute of fighting men, andof such as were able to defend them. How­ever, it was not till the sixth month that hetook Medaba, and that not without the greatdistress of his army. After this he took Sa-mega, and the neighbouring places. Andbesides these, Shechem, and Gerizzim, andthe nation of the Cutheans, who dwelt at thetemple which resembled that temple whichwas at Jerusalem; and which Alexander per­mitted Sanballat, the general of his army, tobuild, for the sake of Manasseh, who was son-in-law to Jaddua, the high-priest; as we have||formerly related. Which temple was nowdeserted, §two hundred years after it wasbuilt. Hyrcanus also took Dora, and Ma-rissa, cities of Idumea; and subdued all theIdumeans; and permitted them to stay inthat country, if they would adopt the rite ofcircumcision, and make use of the laws of theJews. And they were so desirous of living inthe country of their forefathers, that they**submitted. At which time therefore this be­fell them, that they were hereafter no otherthan Jews. But Hyrcanus, the high-priest, was de­sirous to renew that league of friendshipthey had with the Romans. Accordingly hesentff an ambassage to them. And when thesenate had received their epistle, they madea league of friendship with them, after themanner following:— * The Jews were not to march or journey on the sab­bath, or on such a great festival as was equivalent tothe sabbath, any farther than a sabbath day's journey, or2000 cubits. See the Note on XX. 8. t An. 130. J Those within the limits of Judea. II See Book XI. chap. 8. § It was exactly 202 years, viz. from an. 332 to an.130 B. C. ** This account of the Idumeans admitting circumci­sion, and the entire Jewish law, from this time, or fromthe days of Hyrcanus, is confirmed by their subsequenthistory. See XIV. 8. XV. 7. XVII. 12. Of the War,II. 3. IV. 4. This, in the opinion of Josephus, madethem proselytes of juslice, or entire Jews; as here andelsewhere, XIV. 8. So Dio, XXXVII. page 41. How­ever, Anti^onus the enemy of Herod, though Herod werederived from surh a proselyte of justice for several gene­rations, will allow him to be no more than a half Jew.XIV. 15. But still take out of Dean Prideaux, at theyear 129, the words of Ammonius, which fully confirmthis account of the Idumeans in Josephus. "The Jews,"says he, "are such by nature, and from the beginning:ivhile the Idumeans were not Jews from the beginning, but Phoenicians and Syrians; but being afterward sub­dued by the Jews, and compelled to be circumcised, andto unite into one nation, and to be subject to the samelaws, they were called Jews." Dio also says, as the Deanthere quotes him, from Book XXXVI. page 37, "Thatcountry is called Judea, and the people Jews. And thisname is given also to as many others as embrace theirreligion, though of other nations." But then upon whatfoundation so good a governor as Hyrcanus took uponhim to compel these Idumeans either to become Jews orto leave their country, deserves great consideration. Isuppose it was because they had long ago been drivenout of the land of Edom, and had seized on and pos­sessed the tribe of Simeon, and all the southern parts ot"the tribe of Judah; which was the peculiar inheritance ot"the worshippers of the true God, without idolatry: as thereader may learn from Reland, Palestin. part I. page I54,305, and from Prideaux at the years 740 and 165. Nor doI remember that ever the like violence was used by him orhis predecessors, with any country, which was not a partof that promised land: though the other kings after himintended it to all their conquests in or out of that promisedland. See Prideaux at the year 10G, and Antiq. XIII. 15.tt An. 128.