OCR Output 36 VESPASIAN. [B. III. upon him, and fell down together with the head of the ram.Next to him two brothers showed their courage; their nameswere Netir and Philip, both of them of the village of Ruma,and both of them Galileans also: these men leaped upon thesoldiers of the tenth legion, and fell down upon the Romanswith such a noise and force as to disorder their ranks, and toput to flight all upon whomsoever they made their assaults. 22. After these men's performances, Josephus, and therest of the multitude with him, took a great deal of fire, andburnt both the machines and their coverings, with the worksbelonging to the fifth and to the tenth legion, which they putto flight; when others followed them immediately, and buriedthose instruments, and all the materials under ground. How­ever, about the evening the Romans erected the battering-ram against that part of the wall which had suffered before;where a certain Jew that defended the city from the Romanshit Vespasian with a dart in his foot, and wounded him alittle, the distance being so great that no mighty impressioncould be made by the dart thrown so far off. However, thiscaused the greatest disorder among the Romans; for whenthose who stood near him saw his blood, they were disturbedat it, and a report went abroad through the whole army thatthe general was wounded, while the greatest part left thesiege, and came running together with surprise and fear tothe general; and before them all came Titus, out of the con­cern he had for his father, insomuch that the multitude werein great confusion, and this out of the regard they had fortheir general, and by reason of the agony that the son wasin. Yet did the father soon put an end to the son's fear,and to the disorder the army was under; for being superiorto his pains, and endeavoring soon to be seen by all that hadbeen in a fright about him, he excited them to fight the Jewsmore briskly; for now everybody was willing to expose him­self to danger immediately, in order to avenge their general,and then they encouraged one another with loud voices, andran hastily to the walls. 23. But still Josephus and those with him, although theyfell down dead upon one another by the darts and stones