OCR Output C. Vm.J TO FINISH THE WAR. 129 strong-holds all about Idumoa; and when ho had seized upontwo villages which were in the very midst of Idumea, Betarisand Capartobas, ho slew above ten thousand of the people,and carried into captivity above a thousand, and drove awaythe rest of the multitude, and placed no small part of hisown forces in them, who overran and laid waste the wholemountainous country ; while he, with the rest of his forces,returned to Emmaus, whence he came down through thecountry of Samaria, and hard by the city, by others calledNcapolis (or Sichem,) but by the people of that countryMabortha, or Corea, where he pitched his camp, on the se足cond day of the month Desius [Sivan;] and on the day fol足lowing he came to Jericho; on which day Trajan, one of hiscommanders, joined him with the forces he brought out ofPerca, all the places beyond Jordan being subdued already. 2. Hereupon a great multitude prevented their approach,and came out of Jericho, and fled to those mountainous partsthat lay over against Jerusalem, while that part which wasleft behind was in a great measure destroyed; they also foundthe city desolate. It is situated in a plain; but a naked andbarren mountain, of a very great length, hangs over it, whichextends itself to the land about Scythopolis northward, butas far as the country of Sodom and the utmost limits of thelake Asphaltitis southward. This mountain is all of it veryuneven, and uninhabited by reason of its barrenness: thereis an opposite mountain that is situated over against it onthe other side of Jordan ; this last begins at Julias and thenorthern quarters, and extends itself southward as far asSomorrhon,1 which is the bounds of Petra in Arabia. Inthls ridge of mountains there is one called the Iron Moun足tain, that runs in length as far as Moab. Now the regionthat lies in the middle between these ridges of mountains iscalled the Great Plain ; it reaches from the village Ginnabris 1 Whether tins Somorrhon or Somorrah ought not to bo hero written Go足morrah, as some MSS. in a manner have it (for the place meant by Josophusseems to be near Segor or Zoar, at the very south of the Dead Sea, hard bywhich stood Sodom and Gomorrah,) cannot now be certainly determined,but seems by no means improbable.