OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME,—BOOK XXVII. 61 with ropes to such a height, that men might come'inwithout stooping. Scarcely was the passage suffi­ciently opened, when the deserters rushed in eagerlythrough the gate; and, when about six hundred hadentered, the rope by which it was kept suspended be­ing loosened, the portcullis fell down with a greatnoise. Part of the Salapians now attacked the de­serters, who, as if among friends, carried their armscarelessly on their shoulders, as on a march; while therest, from the tower adjoining- the gate and from thewalls, beat off the enemy with stones, and pikes, andjavelins. Thus Hannibal, ensnared by an artifice wor­thy of himself, was obliged to retire, and went thenceto raise the siege of Locri, which Cincius was pushingforward with the utmost vigor, having constructed va­rious works, and being supplied with engines of everykind from Sicily. Mago, who almost despaired pf beingable to hold out and maintain the defence of the city,received the first gleam of returning hope from the newsof Marcellus' death. This was soon followed by an ex­press, acquainting him that Hannibal, having sent for­ward the Numidian cavalry, was hastening after, atthe head of the main body of infantry, with all thespeed he could make. As soon, therefore, as he un­derstood, by signals made from the watch-towers, thatthe Numidians were drawing nigh, he with his ownforces, suddenly throwing open a gate, rushed out fu­riously on the besiegers. The suddenness of hisattack, rather than inequality of strength, at first madethe dispute doubtful; but afterwards, when the Numi­dians came up, the Romans were struck with such dis­may, that they fled in confusion towards the sea andtheir ships, leaving behind their works and machineswhich they used in battering the walls. In this man­ner did the approach of Hannibal raise the siege ofLocri. 29. When Crispinus learned that Hannibal had goneinto Bruttium, he ordered Marcus Marcellus, militarytribune, to lead away to Venusia the army which hadbeeo under the command of his colleague; and he