OCR Output 220 livy. ships, heavily laden, a second time, with all kinds ofspoil. From that time laying aside small expeditionsand predatory excursions, he turned the whole forceof the war to the siege of Utica; intending, if heshould take it, to establish his head-quarters there forthe future, in order to the better execution of the restof his designs. While the marine forces made theirapproaches on that side of the city which is washed bythe sea, those of the land advanced from a risingground hanging almost over the walls. Engines andmachines had been sent from Sicily with the stores;and many were made in the armory, where a number ofartificers, skilled in such works, were retained for thepurpose. The people of Utica, attacked on all sides bysuch a powerful force, had no hopes but from the Car­thaginians; nor the Carthaginians any but from Has-drubal, and from him only, as he should be able to in­fluence Syphax. But all measures proceeded too slowlyfor their anxious desire of aid, of which they stood somuch in need. Hasdrubal, though he had, by the mostdiligent press, made up the number of thirty thousandfoot, and three thousand horse, yet durst not move to­wards the camp of the enemy before the arrival of Sy­phax. Syphax soon came with fifty thousand foot, andten thousand horse; and immediately decamping fromCarthage, sat down at a small distance from Utica, andthe intrenchments of the Romans. Their approach pro­duced at least this consequence, that Scipio, after hav­ing besieged Utica for near forty days, and tried everyexpedient for its reduction, in vain, was obliged toretire from it, as the winter was now at hand. Hefortified his winter camp on a promontory, joined tothe continent by a narrow isthmus, and which stretchesout to some length into the sea; and included thenaval camp within the same intrenchment. The le­gions were stationed on the middle of the isthmus;the ships were hauled on shore, and the seamen occu­pied the coast which faces the north; the cavalry avalley on the south. Such were the transactions inAfrica to the latter end of autumu.