OCR Output LEUCAS. LEUCAS. 169 and modelled both by the Turks and Venetians.(Vita, B.) The fort was connected with the islandby an aqueduct, serving also as a causeway, 1300yards in length, and with 260 arches. (Plan, 5.) Itwas originally built by the Turks, but was ruinedby an earthquake in 1825, and has not since beenrepaired. It was formerly the residence of the Vene­tian governor and the chief men of the island, whokept here their magazines and the cars (&fia£at) onwhich they carried down their oil and wine from theinland districts, at the nearest point of the island.The congregation of buildings thus formed, and towhich the inhabitants of the fortress gradually re­tired as the seas became more free from corsairs,arose by degrees to be the capital and seat of govern­ment, and is called, in memory of its origin,A noiichi CAuatiXivv). (Plan, C.) Hence the fortalone ia properly called Santa Maura, and the capitalAmarichi; while the island at large retains its an­cient name of Leucadia. The ruins of the ancienttown of Leucas are situated a mile and a half tothe SE. of AmaxicJii. The site is called Kaligoni,and consists of irregular heights forming the lastfalls of the central ridge of the island, at the foot ofwhich is a narrow plain between the heights and thelagoon. (Plan, D.) The ancient inclosure is almost en­tirely traceable, as well round the brow of the heighton the northern, western, and southern sides, as fromeither end of the height across the plain to thelagoon, and along its shore. This, as Leake ob-lerves, illustrates Livy, who remarks (xxxiii. 17)that the lower ports of Leucas were on a level closeto the shore. The remains on the lower ground areof a more regular, and, therefore, more modern ma­sonry than on the heights above. The latter areprubably the remains of Nericus, which continuedto be the ancient acropolis, while the Corinthiansgave the name of Leucas to the town which theyerected on the shore below. This is, indeed, in op­position to Strmbo, who not only asserts that thename was changed by the Corinthian colony, butal«o that Leucas was built on a different site fromthat of Neritna. (x. p. 452). But, on the otherhand, the town continued to be called Nericns evenas late as the Pelopcnnesian War (Thuc. iii. 7); andnamerous instances occur in history of differentqnarters of the same city being known by distinctB«nea. Opposite to the middle of the ancient cityare the remains of the bridge and causeway whichbens crossed the lagoon. (Plan, 1.) The bridge»u rendered necessary by a channel, which per­vade* the whole length of the lagoon, and admitsa passage to boats drawing 5 or 6 feet of water,*hilt the other parts of the lagoon are not morethan 2 feet in depth. The great squared blocks*Bleh formed the ancient causeway are still seensfcove the shallow water in several places on citherude of the deep channel, but particularly towardsthe Acarnanian shore. The bridge seems to havebeen kept in repair at a late period of time, therefceiag a solid cubical fabric of masonry of moremodern workmanship erected on the causeway ontti* western bank of the channel. Leake, from whomthis description is taken, argues that Strabo couldrerer have visited Leucadia, because he states thatinUifthmus, the ancient canal, the Homnn bridge, andti» city of Leacas were all in the same place; whereasthe isthmus and the canal, according to Leake, werenesr the modern fort Santa Maura, at the distance<* 3 miles north of the city of Leucan. But K. 0.Natter, who is followed by Bowen and others, believe that the isthmus and canal were a little south ofthe city of Leucas, that is, between Fort Alexander(Plan, 2) on the island, and Paleocaglia on themainland (Plan, 3). The channel is narrowest atthis point, not being more than 100 yards across;and it is probable that the old capital would havebeen built close to the isthmus connecting thepeninsula with the mainland. It has been con­jectured that the long spit of sand, on which thefort Santa Maura has been built, probably did notexist in antiquity, and mny have been thrown upat first by an earthquake. Between the fort Santa Maura and the moderntown Amaxichi, the Anglo-Ionian government haveconstructed a canal, with a towing-path, for boatsdrawing not more than 4 or 5 feet of water. (Plan,4.) A ship-canal, 16 feet deep, has also been com­menced across the whole length of the lagoon fromFort Santa Maura to Fort A lexander. This work,if it is ever brought to a conclusion, will open asheltered passage for large vesAels along the Acar­nanian coast, and will increase and facilitate thecommerce of the island. (Bowen, p. 78.) 1- / ff? •• f\ - m. r: i \ aVttutitfkw _111 wrS HUa^L'- -.,:-m $£&• T *i "tn '1 f 9~) i".I V h( J. r / / / ■ k^i a fe X' m\-u 'v4sa s « =. ■ m }—' PLAN. A. Spft of sand, which I.eake supposes to be the Isthmus. B. Fort Santa Maura. C. Amaxichi. D. City of [.<■'.< .'■■.. E. Site of isthmus, Bccorriing to K. O. Muller. 1. Remains of Homan bridge. 2. Fort Alexander. 3. Paleocaglia.A. N- u canal. ft. Turkish aqueduct and bifdge. Of the history of the city of Leucas we have afew details. It sent three ships to the battle ofSalamis (Herod, viii.45); and as a colony of Corinth,it sided with the Lacedaemonians in the Peloponne-sian War, and was hence exposed to the hostility ofAthens. (Thuc. iii. 7.) In the Macedonian periodLeucas was the chief town of Acarnania, and theplace in which the meetings of the Acarnanian con­federacy were held. In the war between Philipand the Komans, it sided with the Macedonianmonarch, and was taken by the Romans after agallant defence, B.C. 197. (Liv. xxiiii. 17.) Afterthe conquest of Perseus, Leucas was separated bythe Romans from the Acarnanian confederacy.