OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 33 that expiation, the minds of men, which were distractedby discord, had been restored to their proper state, itwas resolved that a dictator should be nominated forthe purpose. Cneius Quintus being accordingly created,appointed Lucius Valerius master of the horse; and,as soon as the nail was driven, they abdicated theiroffices. [A. U. C. 424. B. C. 328.] 19. Lucius Papirius Crassus and Lucius PlautiusVenno were the consuls for the next year [A.U.C. 425.B. C. 327] ; in the beginning of which ambassadorscame to Rome from Fabrateria and Polusca, two Vol-scian stntes, praying to be admitted into alliance ; andpromising that, if they were protected against the armsof the Samnites, they would ever continue faithful andobedient subjects to the government of the Romanpeople. On this ambassadors were sent by the senate,to require of the Samnites that they should offer noviolence to the territories of those states ; and thisembassy produced the desired effect, rather becausethe Samnites were not yet prepared for war than thatthey were desirous of peace. This year war broke outwith the people of Privernum: these were supportedby the inhabitants of Fundi, of which country was alsothe commander-in-chief, Vitruvius Vaccus, a man ofconsiderable note, not only at home but at Rome also.He had a house on the Palatine hill, on the spot which,after the buildings were rased and the ground thrownopen, was called Vacciprata.1 He was committinggreat depredations in the districts of Setia, Norba, andCora; to oppose him therefore Lucius Papirius beganhis march, and took post at a small distance from hiscamp. Vitruvius neither took the prudent resolutionof remaining within his trenches, in the presence of anenemy, his superior in strength, nor had he the cou­rage to fight at any great distance from them. With­out either judgment in forming, or boldness in exe­cuting his plan, he entered on an engagement whilethe last of his troops had scarcely got out of the gate 1 Or the field of Vaccus, from pratum, a field.LIV. VOL. III. C