OCR Output io8 THE HISTORY B o o K. the haughty infolence of the late king: for the,_-*'- __, former kings governed in fuch a manner, that all ofY.R. 145. them, in fucceffion, might defervedly be reckonedB.C. s°7. as founders, of the feveral parts, at leaft, of the city,which they added to it, to accommodate the addi­tional numbers of inhabitants, whom they themfelvesintroduced. Nor can it be doubted, that the fameBrutus, who juftly merited fo great glory, for havingexpelled that haughty king, would have hurt thepublic intereft moft materially, had he, through anover-hafty zeal for liberty, wrefted the governmentfrom any one of the former princes. For what mufthave been the confequence, if that rabble of fhep-herds and vagabonds, fugitives from their own coun­tries, having, under the fanction of an inviolableafylum, obtained liberty, or at leaft impunity; and,uncontrolled by dread of kingly power, had oncebeen fet in commotion by tribunitian ftorms, andhad, in a city where they were ftrangers, engaged incontefts with the Patricians, before the pledges ofwives and children, and an affection for the foil it-felf, which in length of time is acquired from habit,had united their minds in focial concord? Theftate, as yet but> a tender fhoot, had been torn inpieces by difcord; whereas the tranquil moderationof the government cherifhed it, and, by due nourifh-ment, brought it forward to luch a ftate, that, itspowers being ripened, it was capable of producingthe glorious fruit of liberty. The origin of libertyis to be dated from that period, rather on account ofthe confular government being limited to'one year,than of any diminution made of the authority whichhad been pofiefled by the kings. The firft conlulsenjoyed all their privileges, and all their enfigns ofauthority; in this refpect, only, care was taken, notto double the objects of terror by giving the fafcesto both the confuls. Brutus, with the content of hiscolleague, was firft honoured with the fafces, and thezeal which he had fhewn as the champion of liberty in