OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 173 Delmium in 599, that the confederacy conformed and pro- 155.fessed itself subject to the Romans. But the poor and butsuperficially subdued country was not sufficiently importantto be erected into a distinct province: the Romans con­tented themselves, as they had already done in the case ofthe more important possessions in Epirus, with having itadministered from Italy along with Cisalpine Gaul; anarrangement which was, at least as a rule, retained evenwhen the province of Macedonia had been erected in 608 146.and its north-western frontier had been fixed to the north­ward of Scodra.* But this very conversion of Macedonia into a province The Romansdirectly dependent on Rome gave to the relations of Rome in ™ace"with the peoples on the north-east greater importance, by T?nr'a animposing on the Romans the obligation of defending theeverywhere exposed frontier on the north and east againstthe adjacent barbarian tribes ; and in a similar way not longafterwards (621) the acquisition by Rome of the Thracian 133.Chersonese (peninsula of Gallipoli) previously belonging tothe kingdom of the Attalids devolved on the Romans theobligation hitherto resting on the kings of Pergamus toprotect Lysimachia against the Thracians. From the doublebasis furnished by the valley of the Po and the province ofMacedonia, the Romans could now advance in earnesttowards the region of the headwaters of the Rhine andtowards the Danube, and possess themselves of the northernmountains at least so far as was requisite for the securityof the south. In these regions the most powerful nation at that time The tribeswas the great Celtic people, which according to thea* 'henative tradition (i. 337) had issued from its settlements on ^"psthe western ocean and poured itself about the same time and aiollginto the valley of the Po on the south of the main chain of the Danubethe Alps and into the regions on the Upper Rhine and onthe Danube to the north of that chain. Among theirvarious tribes, both banks of the Upper Rhine were occu­pied by the powerful and rich Helvetii, who nowhere came into Helvctii.immediate contact with the Romans and so lived in peaceand in treaty with them: at this time they seem to havestretched from the lake of Geneva to the river Main, and to * P. 42. The Piruste in the valleys of the Drin belonged to the provinceof Macedonia, but made forays into the neighbouring Ulyricum (Caesar,£. G. v. 1).