OCR Output PELASGIOTIS. PELIGNI. XTrbewohner Rattens, t)V\, 184.3: Mommsen, Un-teritalischen Dialecle, 1850; Pochard, NaturalHistory of Man, vol. lit. 4; Heffter, Geschichte derLutein Sprache, p. 11; G. C. Lewis, Credibility ofearly Roman llutory, vol. i. p. 282; and Schwe-glor. as quoted above. The last-mentioned historian, after a careful re­view of all that ancient and modern authoritieshave said on the subject, agrees with Mr. Grote inconcluding that there is no historical foundation forthe commonly received traditions about the Pelasgi.lie says: "The traditional image of the Pelasgiclace, everywhere driven out, nowhere settling them­selves for good,— of the race which is everywhereand nowhere, always reappearing, and vanishingagain without leaving any trace,—the image of thisL'ipsey nation is to me so strange, that we mustentertain doubts as to its historic existence." After they became a powerful nation in Italy, thetradition, which Dionysius follows, tells us that theysuddenly dispersed. This is in itself strange; but,were any other conclusion of the Pelasgi an migra­tions invented, we should have to point out Pelas-gians in Italy, which is impossible. Nothing re­mains of them but a few names of places, which aremanifestly Greek. Lepsius thought an inscriptionfound at Agylla was Pelasgic, but Mommsen (irn-tertt. Vial. p. 17) says it is nothing but oldEtruscan. It is not difficult to account for the prevalence oftraditions relating to Pelasgi in Italy. Schwe^lerhas ably analysed the causes of this, and disprovedon historical and linguistic grounds the views ofNiebuhr and 0. Miiller, which they set up in oppo-sdtion to the Roman grammarians. There is considerable doubt, as he remarks, inwhat light we are to regard the name Pelasgi,—whether in that of an ethnographic distinction, or inthat of an epithet — nut urh (fumes or aborigines.We have both in Greek and Latin words resemblingis sufficiently in form to warrant this supposition,—v. g. riaAaioy, UaXaix^v, and Priscus. The changefrom A to r is so common as to need no illustration,and the termination -701 is nearly the same as -cits. These remarks, though they apply with con­siderable force to the indiscriminate use of the wordl VlasL'ian as applied to Italian races, need not affectthe statement of Herodotus concerning the townshipsof So lace, Placie, and Creston, which were accountedin his time Pelasgic, and spoke a different languagefrom their neighbours. That the name Pelasgi once indicated an existingrace we may fairly allow ; but we cannot form anyhistorical conception of a people whom Herodotuscalls stationary and others migratory, and whose ear­liest abode was between the mountains of Ossa andOlympus, and alto in Arcadia and Argolis. On thewhole we can partly appreciate Niebuhr'a feelingswhen he wrote of the Pelasgi,—" The name of thispeople is irksome to the historian, hating as he doesthat spurious philology which raises pretensions toknowledge concerning races so completely buried insilence." {Rom. Hist. i. p. 26, Transl.) If the Pelasgi have any claims on our attentionabove other extinct races, it is not because they haveleft more trustworthy memorials of their existence,but because they occupy so considerable a space inthe mythic records of Greece and Italy. [G. B,] PELasGIO'TIS. [Thi-:ssalia.] PKLE (IlifA.1): Eth. nrjAcuos), a small island,forming one of a cluster, off the coast of Ionia, oppo- 1 site to Clazomenae. (Thuc. viii. 31; Fl'ra. ~ 11's. 38, xxxii. 2. s. 9; Steph. B. *. r.; we Vii Lp. 6:32, a.) PE'LECAS (n«At«5y). a mountain in M*:a,which lay between the Apian plain and the mrrMegistus, (Polyb. v. 77 ) It is pniablj tiw «o-tinuation of Mt. Temnus, separritinz the villfT <fthe Aesepus from that of the Meatus. It bfc b«remarked by Forbi^er that there is a strikifts snm-larity between this name and that of th* wiwh1mountain TlAaKor mentioned by Homer, at *t*afoot Thebe is said to have stood, but the josi:Mi <fwhich was subsequently unknown. (Ham. ft tl397. vii. 396. 42o, xxii. 479: Strab. xuL p 614.)PELE'CES. [Attica, p. 326, a.]PELE'NDONES (neA^So^r, PtoL ii. 6. 5 M\a Celtiberian people in Hispanis TamuwwDiH. be­tween the sources of the Durius and lbens, viisituated to the E. of the Areraci. Under tbtmans they were in the jurisdiction of Clunia. TV*consisted of four tribes, and one of their to*?~>Xuutantia. We find also amon? their cities, Va­lium, Olibia, Varia, &c. (Piin. iii. 3. s. 4. i* JO.s. 34.) [T. H. D.] PELETHRO'NIUM (T\*\*epovu>r), a part VMt Pelium, whence Vircil gives Theepithet of Pelethronii. (Strab. vii. p. 299 ; Suf s. A3. v.: Virg. Georg. iii. 115.) PELIGNI (neAr^oi) a people of Central hVfcoccupying an inland district in the heart ef ft*Apennines. They bordered on the Mara vyr&*the VV., on the Sammies to the S., the Krentao •the E., and the Vestini to the N. Theirwas of very small extent, being confined to tinn&fof the Gkio, a tributary of the A terms, of »tAj the ancient name is nowfiere recorded, and 1 s~Jpart of (he valley of the At emus itself ak-ftc »right bank. The valley of the Gizict is one of *>*upland valleys at a considerable elevation abow 4fsea, running parallel with the course of the Anines, which form so remarkable a feature n *J>configuration of the central chain of those? m'^BfJA[ApknninusJ. It is separated from the Ma» *the basin of the lake Fucinus on the W. bv a mrow and strongly marked mountain ridsre of ac- r«elevation; while towards the S. it terminates u: olofty mountain group which connects the crataranges of the Apennines with the creat mass 4Majella. This last group one of the mostin the whole of the Apennines, attaining a hsrrta9100 feet above the sea. rises on the i>£. mc:«tfthe Peligni; while the Monte Morrtmr, a ]jong rAof scarcely inferior height, rana out fn>m theof its junction with the Sfajtlla in a NW. dirrrrrforming a gigantic barrier, which compJeteh HS«in the Peligni on the NE., separatina- them fnmfPrentani and Marrucini. This n>->untarn ricc^almost continuous with that which de^eettd*. frcthe Gran Sasso towards the SE. through tb* c- atfof the Vestini, but the great mountain barrier t*formed is interrupted by a deep (j.irpe, thmwhich the Atenius forces its way to the sea. banturned abruptly to the NK. immediatelT af^ir ■ceiving the river Gizio [Ateknl'a]. Tb* aacWdistrict of the Peligni was thus shut m on atf •by natural barriers, except towards the wfcthey met the Vestini in the valley of ihe Afteraa A tradition recorded by Festus (s. ».p. 222), but on what authority we know Dot, rqpsented the Peligni as of Illvriau oriiriu; bw t1 statement is far outweighed by the express feajttsfJH