OCR Output AWk THE DECLINE AND FALL them w*re sewn thousand eunuchs, four thousand of them white, the remaindeyblack. The porters or door-keepers were in number seven hundred. Barges-and boats, with the most superb decorations, were seen swimming upon the Ti­gris. Nor was the palace itself less splendid, in which were hung up thirty-eightthousand pieces of tapestry, twelve thousand five hundred of which were of sdkembroidered with gold. The carpets on the floor were twenty-two thousand. Ahundred lions were brought out, with a keeper to each lion.(l) Among the otherspectacles of rare and stupendous luxury, was a tree of gold and silver spreadinginto eighteen large branches, on which, and on the lesser boughs, sat a variety cfbirds, made of the same precious metals, as well as leaves of the tree. Whilethe machinery affected spontaneous motions, the several birds warbled their natu­ral harmony. Through this scene of magnificence, the Greek ambassador wasled by the vizier to the foot of the caliph's throne. "(2) In the west, the Om-miades of Spain supported, with equal pomp, the title of commander of the faith­ful. Three miles from Cordova; in honour of his favourite sultana, the third andgreatest of the Abdalrahmans constructed the city, palace, and gardens, of Zeh-ra. Twenty-five years, and above three millions sterling were employed Dy.thefounder: his liberal taste invited the artists of Constantinople, the most skilfulsculptors and architects of the age; and the buildings were sustained or adornedby twelve hundred columns of Spanish and African, of Greek and Italian marble.The hall of audience was incrusted with gold and pearls, and a great basin in thecentre was surrounded with the curious and costly figures of birds and quad­rupeds. In a lofty pavilion of the gardens, one of these basins and fountains, sodelightful in a sultry climate, was replenished, not with water, but with the purestquicksilver. The seraglio of Abdalrahman, his wives, concubines, and black eu­nuchs, amounted to six thousand three hundred persons; and he was attended tothe field by a guard of twelve thousand horse, whose belts and scimitars were stud­ded with gold. (3) In a private condition, our desires are perpetually repressed by poverty and sub­ordination; but the lives and labours of millions are devoted to the service of a de­spotic prince, whose laws are blindly obeyed and whose wishes are instantly gra­tified. Our imagination is dazzled by the splendid picture; and whatever may bethe cool dictates of reason, there are few among us who would obstinately refuse atrial of the comforts and the cares of royalty. It may therefore be of some use toborrow the experience of the same Abdalrahman, whose magnificence has per­haps excited our admiration and envy, and to transcribe an authentic memorialwhich was found in the closet of the deceased caliph. " I have now reignedabove fifty years in victory or peace; beloved by my subjects, dreaded by my ene­mies, and respected by my allies. Riches and honours, power and pleasure, havewaited on my call, nor does any earthly blessing appear to have been wanting tomy felicity. In this situation I have diligently numbered the days of pure and ge­nuine happiness which have fallen to my lot: they amount to fourteen:—O man!place not thy confidence in this present world!"(4) The luxury of the caliphs,so useless to their private happiness, relaxed the nerves, and terminated the pro­gress, of the Arabian empire. Temporal and spiritual conquests had been thesole occupation of the first successors of Mahomet; and after supplying themselveswith the necessaries of life, the whole revenue was scrupulously devoted to thatsalutary work. The Abbassides were impoverished by the multitude of theirwants, and their contempt of economy. Instead of pursuing the great object ofambition, their leisure, their affections, the powers of their mind, were divertedby pomp and pleasure; the rewards of valour were embezzled by women and eu­nuchs, and the royal camp was encumbered by the luxury of the palace. A si- (1) When Bell of Amermony (Travels, vol. i. p. 89.) accompanied the Russian ambassador to the audience ofthe unfortunate Shah Hussein or Persia, <tw> lions were introduced to denote the power of the king over thefiercest animals. (2) Abulfeda, p. 237. d'Herbelor,p. 509. This embassy was received at Bagdad, A. H. 305, A. D. 917. 1st the Sassagc of Abulfeda, 1 have used, with some variations, the English translation of the learned and amiable Air.[arris of Salisbury, (Philological Inquiries, p. 363,364.) (3) Cardonne Histoire de l'Afrique et de 1'Kspagne, tons. i. p.330—336. A just ideaof the taste and architectureof the Arabians of Spain, may be conceived from the description and plates of the ALbamhn o* Grenada,(Swinburne's Travels, p. 171—188.) (4) Cardonne,tom. i. p. 329,330. This confession, the complaints of Solomon of the vanity of this world (readPrior's verbose but eloquent poem,) and the happy ten days of the emperor Seghed, (Rambler, no. 204, 205.)will be triumphantly quoted by the detractors of human life. Their expectations are commonly immoderate;their estimates are seldom impartial. If I may speak of myself (the only person of whom I can speak wincertainty,) my happy hours have tar exceeded, and far exceed, the scanty numbers of tha caliph of Spain: US1 shall not sample to add, that many sf than are due to the pleasing labour of fte presmt composition.