OCR Output ». IV. YEAR VII.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 315 sea when the weather was tempestuous. And to strengthentheir guard, they had now received a reinforcement of twenty-sail from Athens, so that the number of their shippingamounted in the whole to seventy. The Peloponnesiansmaintained their post on the continent, and made frequent as­saults upon the fort: intent all along to seize the first favour­able opportunity, and to accomplish the preservation of theircountrymen. In Sicily, this while, the Syracusans and confederates,augmenting the number of their guard-ships on the stationof Messene with another squadron they had since equipped,from Messene renewed the war. The Locrians spared nopains to spur them on from the great aversion they bore tothe Rhegians. They had now broke into the territories ofthe latter with their whole force. They had even a mind tohazard a naval engagement against them, as they saw thenumber of Athenian ships at hand to be very inconsiderable,and had received intelligence that the larger numbers design­ed for this service were stopped for the present to block upthe isle of Sphacteria. For should they once get the betterat sea, they hoped, as they then might attack Rhegium bothby sea and land, to find it an easy conquest, and so the pos­ture of their own affairs would be considerably strengthened.For as Rhegium, which is a promontory of Italy, lies at avery small distance from Messene in Sicily, they could thenprevent the approach of the Athenians, and be entirely mas­ters of the strait. This strait is that part of the sea whichruns between Rhegium and Messene, and over which lies theshortest cut from Sicily to the continent. It is the placewhich was formerly called Charybdis, and through whichUlysses is said to have sailed. As the current here sets instrongly from two great seas, the Tyrrhene and Sicilian, andruns with great rapidity, it is not at all strange that it shouldhave been esteemed a dangerous passage. Yet in the very middle of this strait the Syracusans and