OCR Output 208 LIVY. ried on, during my command, may all conduce to thehappiness of myself, the stale, and people of Rome; ofthe allies, and the Latine confederates, who follow myparty, command, and auspices, and those of the Romanpeople on sea, on land, and on rivers. Lend yourfavorable aid to all those measures, and farther themby happy advancements; bring us all home, unhurtand victorious, decorated with spoils, laden with booty,and exulting in triumph. Grant us the opportunity oftaking vengeance on our foes; and whatever attemptsthe Carthaginian people have made to injure our state,grant to me, and to the Roman people, power to re­taliate the same evils on the state of Carthage.' Afterthese prayers, he threw into the sea, according to cus­tom, the raw entrails of a victim which had been slain,and gave by a trumpet the signal for sailing. The windbeing favorable and blowing fresh, when they set sail,they were soon carried out of sight of land; but aboutnoon a fog arose, which made it difficult to keep theships from running foul of each other. As they ad­vanced into the open sea, the wind abated: during thefollowing night the haziness continued, but at therising of the sun it was dispersed, and the wind fresh­ened. The pilot soon after told Scipio that ' Africawas not above five miles distant; that he saw the pro­montory of Mercury; and that if he gave orders tosteer thither, the whole fleet would be immediately inharbor.' As soon as Scipio came within sight of land,he prayed to the gods that his seeing Africa might behappy for the state, and for himself: he then gaveorders to make sail for another landing-place. Theyproceeded with the same wind ; but a fog arising, as onthe day before, hid the land from their sight; and in­creasing as the night came on, involved every object inobscurity. They therefore cast anchor, lest the shipsshould run foul of each other, or be driven on shore.At daybreak, however, the wind sprung up, dispersedthe fog, and discovered the coast of Africa. Scipio,inquiring the name of the nearest promontory, andbeing told that it was called Cape Fair, said, 'the