OCR Output VESTINI. 1283 VESUXXA. rates. (Uv. Epit Ixzt, Ixxvi; Appian, B. C. i. 52;Urns. v. 18.) There U no doubt thai they at this timereceived the Roman franchise, and henceforth be-ctiM merged in the ordinary condition of Roman citi­zen*. Hence we hear nothing more of them in history,tiwogb it is evident that they retained their existenceat a feparate tribe, which is recognised by all thepeoijraphers, a* well as by inscriptions. (Strab. v.p. 241; Plin. hi. 12. 8. 17; Plol. iii. 1. § 59; Orel).Inter. 4036.) From the last source we learn thattbrr were enrolled in the Quirinian tribe. Theirterritory was included in the Fourth Region of Au­gustus (Plin. L c), but in the later division of Italyil was separated into two, the maritime district beingunited with Pieenum, while the inland portion orvalley of tbe Ateraus was included (together withtlie asbines and Peligni) in the province of Valeria.(Lii. Colon, pp. 227, 228; Bingham's Ecclet. An-liq ix. ch. 5, sect. 3.) We learn from Juvenal thattaey continued to retain their primitive simplicityand rustic habits of life even under the Roman Em­pire. (Juv. xiv. 181.) Silius Italicus speaks ofthem as a race, hardy and warlike, and habituated ■ the chase; their rugged mountains were doubt­less still the refuge of many wild animals. (SiLItaL viii. 513.) The more inland parts of their ter­ritory abounded in excellent upland pastures, whichproduced a kind of cheese that was highly esteemedat Koine. (Plin. xi. 42. a. 97; Martial, xiii. 31.) The most important physical feature of the terri­tory of the Vestini is the Monte Corno or Gran•mi*. <f Italia, which, as already observed, is theuigbest summit of the Apennines. This was identi­fied by Cluver, who has been followed by mostlater writers, with the Cunarus Mons of ServiusM Aen. x. 185). But Silius Italicus (viii. 517)places the Horn Fiscklli's, a name much betterknown, among the Vestini; and though this is op­posed to the statement of Pliny that that mountain('Stains the sources of the Xar, there seems muchreason to believe that Pliny lias here confounded theXarwith it* tributary the Velinus[NAit],whiih reallyru»is io a group closely connected with the (ironSajso, and that it was therefore tluit remarkablemountain range which was known to the ancients asIbe Mum; Fiscellus.The following towns are noticed by ancient writers ■ belonging to the Vestini, Pinna, now calledI icita di Wane, appears to have been the chief ofh ;»e which were situated on the eastern slope of the.'juntaius. Lower down, and only a few miles frombe sea, was) Angi i • now Cieita S. Angela.IrEiufux, at the mouth of the river of the sameane, now Peteara, was the seaport of the Vestini,ad, being the only one along this line of coast for•ate distance, served also as that of the M.irrucini.1 roe valley of the Atemos were: PbltimnumAKmedimia), about 14 miles S. of Aqvila; Aveia, ■ remains of which are still visible at f'oua, aboutrmlea S. of Aqvila; and Pitinum, still called 'orrt di Pitino, about 2 miles E. of the same city,hich most have immediately adjoined the territory'Amiternom. Fi kconm u, the ruins of whichu still visible at Cicita di Bagno, a little to theat Aqvila, though an important place in theriy part of the middle ages, is not mentionedr any writer before Paulus Diacouus (Hut.<ing. ii- 20), and was certainly not a municipalwn in the time of the Romans. Pun ki:si m[.rationed only in the Tab. Pcut.) is of very nn-rtain aite, but is supposed to have been near At- tergio. Aqvila, the present capital of this district,is a wholly modern city, having been founded by theemperor Frederic II. in the 13tb century, when itspopulation was gathered together from the surround­ing towns of Amiternum, Aveia, Furcnnium, &c,the complete desolation of which apparently datesfrom this period. Ai'fina, which according toPliny (iii. 12. a. 17) was in his time united formunicipal purposes with Peltuinum, still retainsthe name of Ofena, Ct tina and Cingiua, twotowns of the Vestini mentioned by Livy (viii. 29),are wholly unknown, and the sitea assigned to themby Romanelli, at Cieita Aquana and Cieita Httengarespectively, are merely conjectural. The topography of the Vestini is specially illus­trated in the work of Giovenazzi (Delia Citta d*Ateja nei Yettini, 4to. Roma, 1773), as well as byRomanelli (vol. iii. pp. 241—284). [E. H. B.] VESUBIA'XI, a people mentioned in the inscrip­tion of the arch of Suss. Tbe resemblance of namehas led geographers to place the Vesubiani in avalley through which runs a torrent called Vesubia,which falls into the Var. The Esubiani, who arementioned in the inscription of the Trophy of theAlps (Pliny, iii. 2n) seem to be the same as theVesubiani, for the only difference is a V. ButD'Anvillo places the Esubiani on the Ubaye and theVbayette, which two streams unite above Bane-lonette in the department of BauetAlptt. [G. L.] VESULUS MONS (Monte Vito), one of the mostlofty summits of the Alps, which, from its prominentposition near the plains of Italy, and its great su­periority in height over any of the neighbouringpeaks, is one of the most conspicuous mountains ofthe whole Alpine range as viewed from the Italianside. Hence it is one of the very few individualsummits of the Alps of which the ancient name canbe identified with certainty. It is mentioned byboth Pliny and Mela as containing the sources of tbePadus; and the forner adds that it was the highestsummit of the Alps, which is a mistake, but not anunnatural one, considering its really great elevation(12,581) feet) and its comparatively isolated posi­tion. (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20; Mela, ii. 4. § 4.) Virgilalso mentions the forests of "the pine-clad Vesu-lus" as affording shelter to numerous wild boarsof the largest size. (Virg. Aen. x. 708 ; Serv.ad tie.) [E. H. B.] VESUXXA (OieVowa), according to Ptolemy(ii. 7. § 12) the capital of the Petrocorii, a peopleof Aquitania. In inscriptions the name is writtenVesunna. The place occurs in the Itins., and itsposition is Perigueuz, in the old province of Perigord,which name as well as I'erigveux is a memorial ofthe name of the people, Petrocorii. But it is saidthat the remains of the old town are still called LaYe'sone. Perigueuz is on the I He, a branch of theDordogne, and it is the capital of the department ofDordogne. There is no Roman city in France of which weknow so little that contains so many remains asPeriguevx. Foundations of ancient buildings, mo­saics, statues, and ruins of edifices show its formermagnitude. The tour de Vetone, a round buildingconstructed of small stones and of rough materials,is supposed to hare been tbe cells of a temple, or atomb, as some conjecture. It is about 200 feetin circumference. There were seven bridges atVesunna, four of which have been repaired or re­built. There are some remains of an amphitheatreof large dimensions. Several aqueducts supplied the 4 H 2