OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 163 capable of bold and sanguinary deeds. Tlie death of chap. Justinian was resolved, but the conspirators delayed _ the execution till they could surprise Belisarius dis­armed, and naked, in the palace of Constantinople.Not a hope could be entertained of shaking his long-tried fidelity; and they justly dreaded the revenge,or rather justice, of the veteran general, who mightspeedily assemble an army in Thrace to punish theassassins, and perhaps to enjoy the fruits of their crime.Delay afforded time for rash communications andhonest confessions: Artaban and his accomplices werecondemned by the senate, but the extreme clemencyof Justinian detained them in the gentle confinementof the palace, till he pardoned their flagitious attemptagainst his throne and life. If the emperor forgavehis enemies, he must cordially embrace a friend whosevictories were alone remembered, and who was en­deared to his prince by the recent circumstance oftheir common danger. Belisarius reposed from histoils, in the high station of general of the East andcount of the domestics; and the older consuls andpatricians respectfully yielded the precedency of rankto the peerless merit of the first of the Romans *.The first of the Romans still submitted to be theslave of his wife; but the servitude of habit and af­fection became less disgraceful when the death ofTheodora had removed the baser influence of fear.Joannina their daughter, and the sole heiress of theirfortunes, was betrothed to Anastasius, the grandson,or rather the nephew, of the empress, whose kindinterposition forwarded the consummation of theiryouthful loves. But the power of Theodora expired,the parents of Joannina returned, and her honour, * The honours of Belisarius are gladly commemorated by his secretary (Pro-cop. Goth. 1. iii. c . 36.1. iv. c. 21). The title of Zi-paTiiyof is ill translated, atleast in this instance, by praefectus praetorio; and to a military character, ma-gister militum is more proper and applicable (Ducange, Gloss. Grsc. p. 1458,1459). M 2