OCR Output 102 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. "honour, and plead Lucretia for a precedent."—Upon.this she drew a knife which she had concealed below hergown, and plunged it into her breast. The husband andfather crying out, as she dropt expiring at their feet. CHAP. LIX. The Tarquins banished. JjRUTUS, whilst the rest were absorbed in grief, drawsthe knife out of Lucretia's wound, and holding it out allbloody before him; "Yes," said he, " I swear by thisblood, once so pure, that nothing but royal villainycould have polluted; and. I call the gods" to witnessthis my oath, that I will pursue Lucius Tarquin, theproud, his wicked wife, and all their race, with fireand sword, and every other act of violence in mypower; nor will I ever suffer any of that, or any otherfamily whatsoever, to be king in Rome." This said,he presented the knife to Collaiinus, then td Lucretiusand Valerius, who were not a little astonished at the sur­prising revolution in the intellects of Brutus. However,at his desire, they all took the oath, and their grief be­ing now converted into rage, they all followed Brutus astheir leader, from that moment, incessantly employinghis interest to overturn the regal power. The body of Lucretia was brought from Collatia andlaid in the Forum. As it is usual, in such cases, greatmultitudes assembled, drawn together by their wonder atso extraordinary a spectacle, or their indignation at theauthor. Every one, from his own experience, had somecrime or act of violence, to lay to the charge of the Tar-quins. They were moved by the father's tears; butBrutus insisted that they should dry up their tears, anddrop their unavailing complaints, and show themselvesmen and Romans, in taking up arms against those whooared to act a villainous part against them. The most resolute of the youth appear in arms, volun­teers in the service, and the rest soon follow their exam­ple. Then having left a sufficient guard at the gates ofCollatia, and placing sentries, that the Tarquins mightget no notice of this insurrection, the rest, headed by