OCR Output 410 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. Italian exports and imports, that fell mainly to the Italians;at Narbo they competed in the Celtic trade with the Mas-siliots, and in general it admits of no doubt that the Romanmerchants to be met with everywhere, floating or settled,took to themselves the best share of all speculations.Capitalist Putting together these phenomena, we recognize as theoligarchy. mogfc prominent feature in the private economy of thisepoch the financial oligarchy of Roman capitalists standingalongside of, and on a par with, the political oligarchy. Intheir hands were united the rents of the soil of almost all Italyand of the best portions of the provincial territory, the pro­ceeds at usury of the capital monopolized by them, the com­mercial gain from the whole empire, and lastly, a very con­siderable part of the Roman state-revenue in the form ofprofits accruing from the lease of that revenue. The dailyincreasing accumulation of capital is evident in the rise of theaverage rate of wealth: 3,000,000 of sesterces (£30,000)was now a moderate senatorial, 2,000,000 (£20,000) adecent equestrian fortune; the property of the wealthiest131, man of the Gracchan age, Publius Crassus consul in 623.,was estimated at 100,000,000 of sesterces (£1,000,000). Itis no wonder that this capitalist order exercised a prepon­derant influence on external policy; that it destroyed out ofcommercial rivalry Carthage and Corinth (P. 24, 52) as theEtruscans had formerly destroyed Alalia and the SyracusansCaere; that it in spite of the senate upheld the colony ofNarbo (P. 171). It is likewise no wonder, that this capi­talist oligarchy engaged in earnest and often victorious com­petition with the oligarchy of the nobles in internal politics.But it is also no wonder, that ruined men of wealth putthemselves at the head of bands of revolted slaves (P. 139),and rudely reminded the public that the transition is easyfrom the haunts of fashionable debauchery to the robber'scave. It is no wonder, that that financial tower of Babel,with its foundation not purely economic but borrowed fromthe political ascendancy of Rome, tottered at every seriouspolitical crisis nearly in the same way as our very similarfabric of a paper currency. The great financial crisis, which90. in consequence of the Italo-Asiatic commotions of 664 et seq.set in upon the Roman capitalist-class, the bankruptcy ofthe state and of private persons, the general depreciation oflanded property and of joint stock shares, can no longer betraced out in detail; but their general nature and their