OCR Output THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. nal and on that part which faceth the sea towards Euboea,Thyssus farther, and Cleone, and Acrothous, and Olophyxus,and Dyum, which are promiscuously inhabited by varioussets of Barbarians, who speak both languages. There is alsoa small number of Chalcideans amongst them, bnt the bulkare Pelasgians (the issue of those Tyrrhenes who formerlyinhabited Lemnos and Athens), and Bisaltians, and Cresto-nians, and Edonans : They reside in small fortresses. Mostof them went over to Brasidas; but Sane and Dium stoodout. He therefore made his army halt on their lands, andlaid them waste. Yet as this had no effect, he marched fromthence to Torone of Chalcidica then possessed by the Athe­nians. *He hastened thither at the invitation of a small party,who were ready to betray the city to him. Being arrivedwhilst yet it was dark, he sat down about break of day with hisarmy near the temple of the Dioscuri, which liethnotat mostabove three stadia* from the city. The bulk of the Torone-ans and the Athenian garrison were ignorant of his approach:But the accomplices, who knew he would be punctual, sentsome of their body unperceived to observe his approach. Whenthese were thus certainly assured he was at hand, they con­ducted back with them to their friends seven men armed onlywith daggers. Twenty had at first been selected for this ser­vice, but only seven of them now had the courage to proceed:Lysistratus the Olynthian was the person who commanded.They got in by the wall towards the sea without causing analarm, and ascending from thence slaughtered the guard inthe citadel which is seated upon the most eminent spot, thewhole city being built on the declivity of a hill, and burstopen the postern towards Canastraeum. Brasidas, havingsince advanced a little with the rest of his force, haltedagain. But he ordered a hundred targeteers to go before,that, when the gates should be opened and the signal givenwhich was before agreed on, they might break in first. * Above a quarter of a mile.