OCR Output KTS80& OASES. 457 l h Eabcn, where the vine was said to putM bm and bear fruit the same day. (Steph. lit) 4 Is the island of Xaxos. (Steph. B. *. r.)XftfiOS, [Ntoa, in Europe, No. 2.] 0. 'AEKECM, a town of the Penestae, situated oni -m ifidine into the country of the Labeates,vUkffwinked a narrow pass, formed by n moun-'i . tad the riTcr Aktatls. It was taken byArm a the campaign of b. c 169. (Liv. xliii.tt.) [K. B.J.] UAEOXES (Mela, iii. 6- § 8; Solin. 19. § 6) orfr'.ViE (Pan. ir. 13. a. 27), islands in the Balticrf tie cost of Sarmatia, the inhabitants of whichw to lire on the eggs of birds and wild oats. OAATS ('flam, Pind. 01 v. 25: Frascolari),11 mi rmr oo the S. coa*t of Sicily, flowing beneathfc«*a»rfCaoiarina. [Camakina ] [E. H. B.] '■mCTA. [Ogyku.] wkTi [Rha.] visES fOaVtn or Audffm, Strab. ii. p. 130,J': ;i 'SO— 79I: A/Soots w^Aij Ait^ttov, Stepb.*4t.: Awtffrr/f or Auatrrris), was the gene-U vputtioQ among ancient writers given to spots'u^jWidb' cultivable land lying in the midst of■ai; *wrta; but it was more especially applied toa» Tcoaat and well-watered tracts of the Libyan■■^ 'Atci connect Uke stepping-stones Eastern^ «:wa and Southern Africa. The word Oasisl4nr»d Iran the Coptic Ouah (mansio), a restiog-^ (ftynai. Laic. Ling. Copt. t. e.) Kant,p(/V.C«y. toL ii. pt. I. p. 349), traces it,W ^» probabibtT, to the Arabic Ifawa, a habita­ts, a; A (f /i a wilderness (comp. the Uebrew«*i Tber physical circumstances, rather thanw '• ra,««, or position, constitute an Oasis; andP *ra a applied indifferently to kingdoms likeawl phaiauia (/eezem) and to petty.slips of^ ttcfa at the Oasis of El-Gerah. which is'' w ar fiv» ouiei in circumference. The ancienttacribed them as verdant islands, rising * ue ocean of sand, and by their elevationl"l ton being buried by it with the rest of the*** wL Herodotus, for example (iv. 182), » tir from rising above the level of theV* <_tus are actually depressions of its sur-F** feaOows in the general bed of lime- * '-^ f-jfnsi its basis. The bottom of theP • ^ eadatece. on which rests a stratum of and these retain the water, whichto them tiirough the surroundingfrom the edges of the limestone1 weuties these isolated spots, like aWithin these moist hollows springs a'x**eotifig the most striking contrast to*1 tarpenneas of the encircling wilderness.1 TiruM kinds and considerable girth,and fruit trees, flourish in thewith their verdant pastures'-' tam the spallation of " the Islands of(Herod, iii. 26.) Both commerciallyjjfrpt?. tin Quaes were of the greatest im-» Arhiojaa and Aegypt, which they con-|l*wfc the gftid aitd ivory regions of the south,aetivt traffic of Carthage in the west.E*^<a these kingdoms lost no opportunity of pushing their emporia or colonies eastward towardsthe Red Sea and the Regio Aromatum, there is nopositive monumental proof of their having occu­pied the Oases, at least while under their nativerulers. Perhaps the difficulty of crossing the desertbefore the camel was introduced into Aegypt—andthe camel never appears on the Pharaonic monu­ments—may have prevented them from appropria­ting these outposts. The Persians, after their con­quest of Aegypt in n. c. 523, were the first permanentoccupants of the Oases. Cambyses, indeed, failed inhis attempt to reach Ammonium (SrirnA); but hissuccessor Dareius Hystaspis established his authoritysecurely in many of them. At the time whenHerodotus visited Aegypt, the Oases were alreadymilitary or commercial stations, permeating Libyafrom the Ked Sen to the Atlantic Ocean. Under thePtolemies and the Cnesars, they were garrisonedby the Greeks and Romans, and were the seats of anumerous fixed population, as well as the halt­ing-places of the caravans; under the persecu­tions of the Pagan emperors, they afforded shelter tofugitives from the magistrate; and when the churchbecame supreme, they shielded heretics from theirorthodox opponents. The natural productions of these desert-islandswill be enumerated under their particular names.One article of commerce f indeed, was common tothem. Their alum was imported by the Aejryptians,as essential to many of their manufactures. Amasis,according to Herodotus (ii. 180), contributed 1U00talents of alum towards the rebuilding of the templeat Delphi; and the alum of U-Khargeh (OasisMagna) still attracts and rewards modern .specula­tors. Herodotus describes the Oases as a chain ex­tending from E. to \Y. through the Libyan Desert.He indeed comprehended under tuls term all thehabitable spots of the Sahara, and says that theywere in general ten days' journey apart from oneanother (iv. 181). But it is more usual to considerthe following only as Oases proper. They are. withreference to Aegypt, five in number; although, in­deed. Strabo (xviii. p. 1168) speaks of only three,the Great, the Lesser, and that of Ammon. 1. Ammonium (El-Siwah'), is the most northerlyand the most remote from the Kile. There seem tohave been two roads to it from Lower Aegypt; forwhen Alexander the Great visited the oracle ofAmmon, he followed the coast as far as Paraetoniumin Libya, and then proceeded inland almost in adirect northerly line. (Arrian. Anab. iii.4; Quint.Curt. iv. 33.) He appears, however, to have re­turned to the neighbourhood of Memphis by themore usual route, viz. a WSW. road, which passesthe Natron Lakes [MmOAl] and runs to Teranieh,on the Rosetta branch of the Nile. (Minutoli, Jour­ney to the Temple of Jupiter Ammon.) There issome difficulty in understanding llerodotus's accountof the distance between Thebes and Ammonium.He says that they are ten days' journey apart.(Kennell, Geogr. of Herod, vol. i. p. 577.) But theactual distance between them is 400 geographicalmiles; and as the days journey of a caravan neverexceeds twenty, and is seldom more than sixteenof these miles, double the time allowed by him —not ten, but twenty days—is required for performingit. Either, therefore, a station within ten days'journey of Upper Aegypt has been dropt out of thetext of Herodotus, or he must intend another Oasis,or El-SitcaJi is not the ancient Ammonium. If webear in mind, however, that the Greater Oasis (£.7-