OCR Output 62 THE DECLINE AND FALL prayers and pilgrimage of Datius, bishop of Milan, were not without effect; andhe obtained one thousand Thracians and Isaurians, to assist the revolt of Liguriaagainst her Arian tyrant. At the same time, John the Sanguinary,(1) the nephewof Vitalian, was detached with two thousand chosen horse, first to Alba on theFucine lake, and afterward to the frontiers of Picenum on the Hadriatic sea. " la• that province," said Belisarius, " the Goths have deposited their families and trea­sures without a guard or the suspicion of danger. Doubtless they will violate thetruce; let them feel your presence, before they hear of your motions. Spare theItalians; suffer not any fortified places to remain hostile in your rear; and faithfullyreserve the spoil for an equal and common partition. It would not be reasonable (headded with a laugh,) that whilst we are toiling to the destruction of the drones, ourmore fortunate brethren should rifle and enjoy the honey." The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been assembled for the attack, and wasalmost entirely consumed in the siege of Rome. If any credit be due to an intelli­gent spectator, one-third at least of their enormous host was destroyed, in frequentand bloody combats under the walls of the city. The bad fame and perniciousqualities of the summer air, might already be imputed to the decay of agricultureand population; and the evils of famine and pestilence were aggravated by theirown licentiousness, and the unfriendly disposition of the country. While Vitigesstruggled with his fortune; while he hesitated between shame and ruin, his retreatwas hastened by domestic alarms. The king of the Goths was informed by trem­bling messengers, that John the Sanguinary spread the devastations of war fromthe Apennine to the Hadriatic; that the rich spoils and innumerable captives ofPicenum were lodged in the fortifications of Rimini; and that this formidable chiefhad defeated his uncle, insulted his capital, and seduced, by secret correspondence,the fidelity of his wife, the imperious daughter of Amalasontha. Yet, before herretired, Vitiges made a last effort either to storm or to surprise the city. A secretpassage was discovered in one of the aqueducts; two citizens of the Vatican weretempted by bribes to intoxicate the guards of the Aurelian gate; an attack wasmeditated on the walls beyond the Tiber, in a place which was not fortified with,towers; and the barbarians advanced, with torches and scaling-ladders, to the as­sault of the Pincian gate. But every attempt was defeated by the intrepid vigi­lance of Belisarius, and his band of veterans, who, in the most perilous moments,did not regret the absence of their companions; and the Goths, alike destitute ofhope and subsistence, clamorously urged their departure, before the truce shouldexpire, and the Roman cavalry should again be united. One year and nine daysafter the commencement of the siege, an army so lately strong and triumphant,burnt their tents, and tumultuously repassed the Milvian bridge. They repassednot with impunity: their thronging multitudes, oppressed in a narrow passage,were driven headlong into the Tiber by their own fears and the pursuit of the ene­my; and the Roman general, sallying from the Pincian gate, inflicted a severe anddisgraceful wound on their retreat. The slow length of a sickly and despondinghost was heavily dragged along the Flaminian way; from whence the barbarianswere sometimes compelled to deviate, lest they should encounter the hostile garri­sons that guarded the high road to Rimini and Ravenna. Yet so powerful was thisflying army, that Vitiges spared ten thousand men for the defence of the citieswhich he was most solicitous to preserve, and detached his nephew Uraias, withan adequate force, for the chastisement of rebellious Milan. At the head of hisprincipal army, he besieged Rimini, only thirty-three miles distant from the Go­thic capital. A feeble rampart, and a shallow ditch, were maintained by the skilland valour of John the Sanguinary, who shared the danger and fatigue of the mean­est soldier, and emulated, on a theatre less illustrious, the military virtues of hisgreat commander. The towers and battering engines of the barbarians were ren­dered useless; their attacks were repulsed; and the tedious blockade, which re­duced the garrison to the last extremity of hunger, afforded time for the union andmarch of the Roman forces. A fleet which had surprised Ancona, sailed alongthe coast of the Hadriatic, to the relief of the besieged city. The eunuch Narseslanded in Picenum with two thousand Heruli, and five thousand of the bravesttroops of the east. The rock of the Appennine was forced; ten thousand veteransmoved round the foot of the mountains, under the command of Belisarius himself;and a new army, whose encampment blazed with innumerable lights, afifieared^toadvance along the Flaminian way. Overwhelmed with astonishment and despair, 0) Anastasias (p, 49.) has preserved this rpithct of SMieuinaiius, which might do honour to a tiger.