OCR Output IONIA. 6] IONIUM MAKE. xiv. pp. 632T 665.) Towards the inland, or theeast, Ionia extendi-d only a few miles, the towns of.Magnesia, Larissa, Tralles, Alabanda, and others,not belonging to it. Ptolemy (v. 2) assigns muchnarrower limits to Ionia than his predecessors, for,according to him. it extended only from the Hermusin LydU to the Maeander in Caria; so that Phocacaand Miletus would not belong to Ionia. According!•:> a generally received tradition, the Ionian colonies(-it the went coast of Asia were founded after thedeath of Counts, the last king of Attica, about is. c.104*. or, according to others, as early as B.C. 1060,about 60 years after the conquest of Peloponnesusby tb«* Dorians. The eons of Codrus, Neleus andAnd rod us, it is said, being dissatisfied with theaii;Jition of royalty and the appointment of theirrke.-t brother Medon to the anhonship, emigrated,w.ih large numbers of Attic lonians and bands fromother parts of Greece, into Asia Minor. (Strab. xiv.p. 633. foil.; Paus. vii. 2.) Here, in one of themost beautiful and fertile parts of the earth, theyfounded a number of towns,—partly expelling andjurtrc subduing the ancient inhabitants, who con­sisted mainly of Macuirians, Carians, and Pelasgians.(Herod. L 142; Paus. vii. 2; Pberecyd. Fragm. 26;D**»ys. Per. 822, &c.) As a great many of theoriginal inhabitants remained in the country as sub-;*vta of the conquerors, and as the latter had goneto Asia a* warriors, without women, the new colonieswere not pure Greek; but still the subdued nations*m? not «> completely different as to render anamalgamation into one nation impossible, or evenvery difficult. This amalgamation with differenttrib-s also accounts for the fact that four differentdialects were spoken by the lonians. (Herod. I. c.) The towns founded by the lonians — which,though independent of one another, yet formed akind of confederacy for common purposes—amountedto twelve (6w3c*cc£irc/A>Js), a number which must nottw regarded as accidental. These towns, of whichamounts are given in serrate articles, were: Pilo- '"AF-A, EltlTHKAK, CLAZOMKMAE, TeOS, LKBKDOH, Cotoraos, Ei'hesis, Pbienk, Myub, Miletus,ami Samos and Chios in the neighbouring islands.(Nmb. xiv. p. 633; Aelian, V.ff. viii. 5.) Subse­quently, about B. c. 700, Smyrna, which until thenbad belonged to Aeolis, became by treachery a mem-b*r ttf the Ionian confederacy, which henceforth con-**ted of thirteen cities. (Herod, i. 149; Paus. vii.i: Sirab. Lc.} These Ionian colonies soon rose toa ijitih degree of prosperity, and in many respectsl«t»iripped the mother-country; for poets, philoso-jVn. historians, and artists flourished in the Ionianritiea long before the mother-country attained to anyeminence in these intellectual pursuits. AH thecities of Ionia formed independent republics, with'■* i-«rratiral constitutions; but their common affairs^n; diseased at regular meetings held at Pamo-tuuin (navuavtov), the common centre of all theIonian cities, on the northern slope of Mount My-c*K near Priene, and about three stadia from the***t. (Herod. L 141, 148; Strab. xiv. p. 639; Mela,i-17; Plin. v. 29.) These meetings at Panioniurn•Ppear to have given rise to a permanent town, with» PrrUneani, in which the meetings were held.(Stejjo. B. «.c.) The political bond which held thelaoun cities together appears to have been rathert**-*, and the principal objects of the meetings, atfew* in later times, were religious worship and the^•bration of games. The cities continued to enjoyUeir increasing prosperity and their independence until the establishment of the Lydian monarchy.The attacks upon the Ionian colonies began even inthe reign of Gyges, so that one city after another wasconquered, until, in the reign of Croesus, all of thembecame subject to the Lydians. When Lydia be­came the prey of the Persian conqueror Cyrus, iub. c. 557, Ionia also was obliged to acknowledge thesupremacy of Persia; but the new rulers scarcelyinterfered with the internal affairs of the cities andtheir confederacy; all they had to do was to paytribute, to send their contingents to the Persianarmies, and to submit to satraps and tyrants, thelatter of whom were Greek usurpers who set them­selves up in their native cities, and were backed bythe Persian monarchs. But the lonians, accustomedto liberty, were unable to bear even this gentle yokefor any length of time, and in b. c. 500 a generalinsurrection broke out against Persia, in which thoAthenians and Eretrians also took part. The re­volt had been planned and organised by Histiaeus,tyrant of Miletus, and Aristagoras, his son-in-law.The lonians burned and destroyed Sardes, the resi­dence of the Persian satraps, but were then routedand defeated in a bloody battlo near Ephesus. InB.O. 496 all the lonians were again reduced, andcompelled to assist the Persians with men and shipsin the war against Greece. In the battle of Mycale,b. c. 479, the lonians deserted from the ranks of thePersians and joined their kinsmen, and thus tookthe first step to recover their independence, whichten years later was fully secured by the battle onthe Eurymedon. They then entered into a relationwith the Athenians, who were to protect them againstany further aggression from the Persians; but inconsequence of this they became more or Jess de­pendent upon their protectors. In the unfortunatepeace of Antalcidas, the lonians, with the otherAsiatic Greeks, were again made over to Persia,B.C. 387; and when the Persian monarchy was de­stroyed by Alexander, they became a part of thoMacedonian empire, and finally fell into the hands ofthe Komans. The highest prosperity of Ionia be­longs to the period of the Lydian supremacy; underthe rule of Macedonia it somewhat recovered from itsprevious sufferings. Under the Komans the Ioniancities still retained their importance as commercialplaces, and as seats of art and literature; but theylost their political life, and sank down to the con­dition of mere provincial towns. The last traces oftheir prosperity were destroyed under the barbarousrule of the Turks in the middle ages. During theperiod of their greatest prosperity and independence,the Ionian cities sent out numerous colonies to theshores of the Black sea and to the western coastsand islands of the Mediterranean. (Comp. Thirl-wall, IJUt of Greece, vol. ii. chap. 12, pp. 94, 115,120, &c; Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. ii. pp.229—253.) [L. S.] ICNIUM MAKE (Toiw ve\ayos, Ptol.), wasthe name given by geographers to the sea whichbathed the western shores of Greece, and separatedthem from those of Sicily and Southern Italy. Theappellation would seem to date from a very earlyperiod, when the lonians still inhabited the shores ofthe Corinthian gulf, and the part of the Pelopounesssubsequently known as Achaia; but we have no evi­dence of its employment in early times. The legendsinvented by later writers, which derived it from ahero of the name of Ionius or Ion, or from the wan­derings of Io(Aesch. Pronu 840; Tzetz.arf Lycophr.Alex, 630; Steph. B. *. v.; Eustath. ad Div/iys.