OCR Output 156 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. province, and employed the opportunity of suspended hos­tilities to institute fresh negotiations, showing a dispositionto grant to the king a peace on tolerable terms. Jugurthareadily entered into them; he had at once bound himself topay 200,000 pounds of silver, and had even delivered up hiselephants and 300 hostages, as well as 3000 Roman deserterswho were immediately put to death. At the same time, how­ever, the king's most confidential counsellor, Bomilcar—whonot unreasonably apprehended that, if peace should ensue,Jugurtha would deliver him up as the murderer of Massivato the Roman courts—was gained by Metellus and induced,in consideration of an assurance of impunity as respectedthat murder and of great rewards, to promise that he woulddeliver the king alive or dead into the hands of the Romans.But neither that official negotiation nor this intrigue led tothe desired result. When Metellus brought forward thesuggestion that the king should give himself up in person asa prisoner, the latter broke off the negotiations; Bomilcar's t intercourse with the enemy was discovered, and he was arrested and executed. These diplomatic cabals of themeanest kind admit of no apology; but the Romans hadevery reason to aim at the possession of the person of theirantagonist. The war had reached a point, at which it couldneither be carried further nor abandoned. The state of feel­ing in Numidia was evinced by the revolt of Vaga,* the mostconsiderable of the cities occupied by the Romans, in the 108—107. winter of 646-7; on which occasion the whole Roman gar­rison, officers and men, were put to death with the exceptionof the commandant Titus Turpilius Silanus, who was after­wards—whether rightly or wrongly, we cannot'tell—con­demned to death by a Roman court-martial and executed forhaving an understanding with the enemy. The town wassurprised by Metellus on the second day after its revolt, andgiven over to all the rigour of martial law; but if such wasthe temper of the easily reached and comparatively sub­missive dwellers on the banks of the Bagradas, what mightbe expected further inland and among the roving tribes ofthe desert? Jugurtha was the idol of the Africans, whoreadily overlooked the double fratricide in the liberatorand avenger of their nation. Twenty years afterwards aNumidian corps which was fighting in Italy for the Romans • Or Vacca, now Beja on the Mcjerdab.