OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL She revenges After a successful expedition against the Gothic plunderers of Asia, her husband's x death, the Palmyrenian prince returned to the city of Emesa in Syria. Invin­cible in war, he was there cut off by domestic treason, and his favouriteamusement of hunting was the cause, or at least the occasion, of hisdeath s&. His nephew, Mæonius, presumed to dart his javelin beforethat of his uncle; and though admonished of his error, repeated thefame insolence. As a monarch and as a sportsman, Odenathus wasprovoked: took away his horse, a mark of ignominy among the bar­barians, and chastised the rash youth by a short confinement. Theoffence was soon forgot, but the punishment was remembered j and jfc.D. 267. Mæonius, with a few daring associates, assassinated his uncle in themidst of a great entertainment. Herod, the son of Odenathus,though not of Zenobia, a young man of a soft and effeminatetemper S7, was killed with his father. But Mæonius obtained onlythe pleasure of revenge by this bloody deed. He had scarcely timeto assume the title of Augustus, before he was sacrificed by Zenobiato the memory of her husband SS. and reigns With the assistance of his most faithful friends, she immediately over the East , J and Egypt, filled the vacant throne, and governed with manly counsels Palmyra,Syria, and the East, above five years. By the death of Odenathus,that authority was at an end which the senate had granted him onlyas a personal distinction j but his martial widow, disdaining both thesenate and Gallienus, obliged one of the Roman generals, who was sentagainst her, to retreat into Europe, with the loss of his army and hisreputationS9. Instead of the little passions which so frequently perplexa female reign, the steady administration of Zenobia was guided by themost judicious maxims of policy. If it was expedient to pardon, shecovdd calm her resentment: if it was necessary topunifh, she could im­pose silence on the voice of pity. Her strict ceconomy was accusedof avarice; yet on every proper occasion (he appeared magnificentand liberal. The neighbouring states of Arabia, Armenia, andPersia, dreaded her enmity, and solicited her alliance. To the do­minions