OCR Output 418 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. had given the high-priest his right hand, thepriests ran along by him; and he came intothe city.* And when he went up into thetemple, he offered sacrifice to God, accordingto the high-priest's direction: and magnifi­cently treated both the high-priest, and thepriests. And whenf the book of Daniel wasshewn to him, wherein Daniel declared thatone of the Greeks should destroy the empireof the Persians, he supposed that himself wasthe person intended. And as he was thenglad, he dismissed the multitude for the pre­sent: but the next day he called them to him,and bade them ask what favours they pleasedof him. Accordingly the high-priest desiredthat they might enjoy the laws of their fore­fathers, and might pay no tribute the seventhyear. This was readily granted. And whenthey intreated that he would permit the Jewsin Babylon and Media to enjoy their own lawsalso, he willingly promised to do hereafterwhat they desired. And when he said to themultitude, that if any of them would enlistthemselves in his army, on the condition thatthey should continue under the laws of theirforefathers, and live according to them, hewas willing to take them with him; manywere ready to accompany him in his wars. When Alexander had thus settled mattersat Jerusalem, he led his army into the neigh­bouring cities. And when all the inhabitants,to whom he came, received him with greatkindness, the Samaritans, who had then She-chem for their metropolis, (a city situate atmount Gerizzim, and inhabited by apostatesof the Jewish nation;) seeing that Alexanderhad so greatly honoured the Jews, determinedto profess themselves Jews. For such is thedisposition of the Samaritans, as we have al-readyJ declared, that when the Jews are inadversity, they deny that they are of kin tothem; and then they confess the truth. Butwhen they perceive that some good fortunehath befallen them, they immediately pretend to have communion with them, saying, thatthey belong to them; and derive their gene­alogy from the posterity of Joseph, Ephraim,and Manasseh. Accordingly, they made theiraddress to the king with splendour; andshewed great alacrity in meeting him, at alittle distance from Jerusalem. And whenAlexander had commended them, the She-chemites approached to him: taking alongwith them the troops that Sanballat had senthim: and they desired that he would cometo their city, and do honour to their templealso. To whom he promised, that when hereturned he would come to them. And whenthey petitioned that he would remit the tri­bute of the seventh year to them, becausethey did not sow thereon; he asked who theywere that made such a petition; and whenthey said that they were Hebrews, but hadthe name of Sidonians, living at Shechem:he asked them again whether they wereJews? And when they said they were notJews, "It was to the Jews," said he, "thatI granted that privilege: however, when I re­turn, and am thoroughly informed by youof this matter, I will do what I shall thinkproper." And in this manner took leave ofthe Shechemites: but ordered that the troopsof Sanballat should follow him into Egypt,because there he designed to give themlands, which he did a little after in Thebais,when he ordered them to guard that country.On the death of Alexander j| the governmentwas divided among his successors, but thetemple upon mount Gerizzim remained. Andif any one were accused by those of Jerusa­lem of having eaten things§ common, or ofhaving broken the sabbath, or of any othercrime of the like nature, he fled away to theShechemites, and said that he was accusedunjustly. About this time it was that Jaddua,the high-priest, died: and Onias, the son, tookthe high-priesthood. This was the state of theaffairs of the people of Jerusalem at this time. * The time of the year when Alexander came to Je­rusalem, seems rightly determined by the Rabbins inMegillath Taanith; when they keep the 21st of Casleu, afestival in memory of their superiority over the Samari­tans'at this time: as Reland here informs us. See thesame discourse, page 56. Reland informs us farther thatthe same book says, the principal Jews were in white gar­ments; with other circumstances agreeing with Josephus. ( The passages shewn to the king upon this occasion might be Dan. vii. 6. viii. 3—8, 20, 21, 22. xi. 3. someor all of them very plain predictions of Alexander's con­quests and successes. J See Book IX. Chap. 14. II An. 323. § Here Josephus uses the very word " eating Kwoipwym,things common," for " eating things unclean;" as does ourNew Testament, Acts x. 14,15, 28, xi. 8,9. Rom. xiv. 14.See the like in Josephus, XII. 7.