OCR Output Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 435 war, even before it came to any battle, in case they would ab­stain from the crimes they used to indulge themselves in, suchas theft, and robbery, and rapine, and from defrauding theirown countrymen, and never to esteem the harm done to thosethat were so near of kin to them, to be any advantage to them­selves ; for that wars are then managed the best when the war­riors preserve a good conscience ; but that such as are ill menin private life, will not only have those for enemies which at­tack them, but God himself also for their antagonist. 8. And thus did he continue to admonish them. Now he chosefor the war such an army as was sufficient, i. e. sixty thousandfootmen, and* two hundred and fifty horsemen: and besidesthese, on which he put the greatest trust, theie were about fourthousand five hundred mercenaries; he had also six hundred menas guards of his body. Now the cities easily maintained the restof his army, excepting the mercenaries, for every one of the ci­ties enumerated above sent out half their men to the army, andretained the other half at home, in order to get provisions for .them; insomuch that the one part went to the war, and theother part to their work, and so those that sent out their cornwere paid for it by those that were in arms, by that securitywhich they enjoyed from them. CHAP. XXI. Concerning 'John ofGiscbala. Jotepbus uses stratagems againstthe plots John laid against him ; and recovers certain cities,which bad revolted from him. § 1. "V'TO Was Josephus was thusengagedin the administration " .LNI of the affairs of Galilee, there arose a treacherousperson, a man of Gischala, the son of Levi, whose name wasJohn. His character was that of a very cunning, and veryknavish person, beyond the ordinary rate of the other men ofeminence there, and for wicked practices he had not his fellowany where. Poor he was at first, and for a long time his wantswere an hinderance to him in his wicked designs. He was a readyliar, and yet very sharp in gaining credit to his fictions; hethought it a point of virtue to delude people, and would deludeeven such as were the dearest to him. He was an hypocriticalpretender to humanity, but where he had hopes of gain, hespared not the shedding of blood: his desires were ever carried to great * I should think that an army of 60,000 footmen should require many morethan 2'co hortemen ; and we find Josephus had more horsemen under his command'than 250 in his f-n'ire history. 1 suppose [he number of the thousands is droptin our present copies. 3 I 2