OCR Output 140 LATIUM. LATIUM. more severely punished; but the people of this cityalso were soon after Admitted to the Roman fran­chise, and the creation shortly after of the Maecianand Scaptian tribe** was designed to include the newcitizen* added to the republic as the result of thesearrangements. (Liv. viii. 14,17; Niebuhr, vol. iii.pp. HO—145.) From this time the Latins as a nation may besaid to disappear from history: they became gndu-ally more and more blended into one mass with theRoman people; and though the formula of ** theallies and Latin nation" (socii et nomen I^atmum)is one of perpetual occurrence from this time forthin the Roman history, it must be remembered thatthis phrase includes nlso the citizens of the so-calledLatin colonics, who formed a body far superior inimportance and numbers to the remains of the oldLatin people. [Italia, p. 90.] In the above historical review, the history of theold Latins, or the Latins properly so called, has beenstudiously kept separate from that of the othernations which were subsequently included under thegeneral appellation of Latium,— the Aequians, Her-nicans, Volscians, and Aus >nians. The history ofthe?e several tribes, as long as they sustained aseparate national existence, will be found under thi-irrespective names. It may suffice here to mentionthat the Heniicans were reduced to complete sub­jection to Rome in ii. c. 306, and the Aequians iun.c. 304; the period of the final subjugation of theVolscians is more uncertain, but we meet with nomention of them in arms after the capture of Pri-vernum in n. c. 329; and it seems certain that they,as well as the Ausonian cities winch adjoined them,li.-id fallen into the power of Rome before the com­mencement of the Second Samnite War, n. c. 326.[Vouici.] Hence, the whole of the country sub­sequently known as Latium had become finallysubject to Rome before the year 300 d. c. 3. Ixttium under the Romans. — The history ofLatium, pnperly speaking, ends with the breaking1up of the Latin League, Although some of thecities continued, as already mentioned, to retain a no­minal independence down to a late period, and it wasnot till after the outbreak of the Social War, in ».<*.90, that the Lex Julia at length conferred upon allthe Latins, without exception, the rights of Romancitizens, they had long before lost all traces of na­tional distinction. The only events in the interven­ing period which belong to the history of Latium areinseparably bound up with that of Rome. Such wasthe invasion by I'yrrhns iu n.c. 280, who advancedhowever only as tar as Pracneste, from whence helooked down upon the plain around Rome, but with­out venturing to descend into it. (Eutrop. it. 12 jFlor. i. 18. § 24.) In the Second Punic War, how­ever, Hannibal, advancing like Pyrrhus by the line ofthe Via Latina, established his camp within four milesof the city, and carried his ravages up to the verygates of Rome. (Liv. xxvi. 9—11; Pol. ix. 6.)This was the last time for many centuries that La­tium witnessed the presence of a foreign hostile army;but it suffered severely in the civil wars of Mariuiand Sulla, and the whole tract near the sea-coastespecially was ravaged by the Samnite auxiliaries ofthe former in a manner that it seems never to haverecovered (Slrab. v. p, 232.) Before the close of the Re'public Latium appearsto have lapsed almost completely Into the conditionof the mere suburban district of Rome, Tibur, Tna-cul'Uii, and Pracneste became the favourite resorts of the Reman nobles, and the fertile slopes of the AlbasHills and the Apennines were studded with villas andgardens, to which the wealthier citizens of the metro­polis used to retire in order to avoid the heat rebustle of Rome. But the plain immediately aroundthe city, or the Campagna, as it is now called,seems to have lost rather than gained by its prox­imity to the capital. Livy, in more- than one pas­sage, speaks with astonishment of (lie incihausubieresources which the infant republic appears to havepossessed, as compared with the condition of the sameterritory in his own time, (Liv. vi. 12, vii. 25.) Weleam from Cicero that Gabii, I,abicum, Cdlatia, Fi-denae, and Bovillae were in his time sunk into almoMcomplete decay, while even those towns, such asAricia and Lanuvium, which were in a comparativeivflourishing condition, were still very inferior to theopulent municipal towns of Campania. (Cic proPlane. 9, de Lrg.Agrar. ii. 35.) Nor did this stateof things become materially improved even under theRoman Empire. The whole Laurentine tract, or lacwoody district adjoining the sea-coast, as well a* tl*eadjacent territory of Ardea, had already couie to beregarded as unhealthy, and was therefore thinly in­habited. In other parts of the Campagna Mioticfarms or villages already occupied the sites of an­cient cities, such as Autemnae, Collatia, Fidenae, &<.(Strab. v. p. 230); and Pliny gives a long lut ofcities of ancient Latium which in his time had al­together ceased to exist (Plin. iii. 6. s- 9.) Thegreat lines of highway, the Appian, Latin, Salarun.and Valerian Ways, became the means of r.iJlecticja considerable population along their immediate lir**,but appear to have had rather a contrary erlec: uiregard to all intermediate tracts. The notices thatwe find of the attempts made by successive emperorsto recruit the decaying population of many of thetowns of Latium with fresh colonies, sur£c;'b'Jyshow how far they were from sharing in the prospe­rity of the capital; while, on the other hand, tlie*«colonies seem to have for the most part succeededonly in giving a delusive air of splendour to the t<»« n»in question, without laying the foundation of any realand permanent improvement. For many ages its immediate proximity te listcapital at least secured Latium from the ravage* «*fforeign invaders; but when, towards the decline ofthe Empire, this ceased to be the case, and each eur>cessive swarm of barbarians carried their arms Dpto the very gates and walls of Rome, the districtimmediately round the city probably buffered m.-reseverely than any other. Before the fall of tLeWestern Kmpire the Campagna seem* to have twareduced almost to a desert, and the evil moat havebeen continually augmented after that period by tLelong continued wars with the Gothic kings, as wvilas subsequently with the I-om bards, who, tbeeaghthey never made themselves masters of Rome iter..',rejfcatedly laid waste the surrounding temt.cy.All the records of the middle aires represent to u»the Roman Campagna as reduced to a stale of con-plete desolation, from which it has never more thanpartially recovered. In the divi.-ion of Italy under Augustus. I-»''mnTin the wider sense of the term, together with Cam.pania, constituted the First Region. (Plin. ui. 3>.a. 9.) But gradually, tor what reason we kzmiwnot, the name of Campania came to be generallyemployed to designate the whole region; while tHaaof Latium fell completely into disuse. Hence Useorigin of the name of La Campagna tii Aw—n, Vy