OCR Output XIXUS. NIPHATES. 439 Si* (nam to have been, in an especial sense,titan; of Nineveh) comprehends about 1800 Eng-aa urn, u4 u in form an irregular trapezium,■sal 7J mils round. The two mounds occupyitaaaittlj 100, and 40 acres of this space, andaan toukltu the palaces and citadels of the place.Cot. Joon calculates that, allowing 50 squarejab to eaca inhabitant, the population may havewml to about 174,000 souls. Fran an tiabnrate examination of the inscriptions■Hmd a tubs, on cylinders, and on tablets,CM Batlioaon has arrived at the following■and Knluions and identifications in the historyjfltt Batlmiiii and Assyrian empires.Hi oaaiden that the bUtorical dates preserved•rots, and substantiated by Callisthenes (whoto Aristotle the astronomical observations hehad at Babylon, extending as far back asbefore the time of Alexander, i. e. to) are, in the main, correct; and hence thatBabylonian chronology ascends to the'ceotary u. c. The Chaldaean monarchyMmd was established in u. c. 1976, andHal to a. c. 1518; and to this interval of 458fan «P most assign the building of all the great■*»<*' Babylonia, in ti e ruins of which we now■ kkbttamped with the names of the Chaldaeanpa**" At the present time, the names of about•atrt n. earths have been recovered from theIhbtaoJ st Sippara. Xiffer, Warka, Senkerth,BJhaaaer (I'r), belonging to the one genuine■Warn dynasty of Be roe us, which reigned fromIt 1876—1518. Among the Scriptural or his-pWama in this series, may be noticed those of•ad Arioch, Bel us and Horus, and pos-TUprmn of Aelian. An Arab familyIran a. c. 1518 to B. c 1273, of whom,as certain remains have been found. Theof Assyria, or what is usually called ■ dynasty, commenced, Colonel Rawlinsona a. c. 1273, 245 years after the extinc- ■ aat Chaldaean line, and 52G years beforeof Nabunassar in ». c. 747. Of the kings■na, w» bare now nearly a complete list; there is some difference in the readingaf aomt of the names, we may state thatof Dr. Uincks and Colonel Raw-rw ia all important particulars. To thethis race is attributable the foundation ofat Sminid. The series corn-la* names of Ashurbanipal. probably theof the Greeks, the founder of(St'hol. ad Aristoph. A ens,X*ad tot contemporary of Ahab, about B. c.■d Pbal-akha, the +<iA»x of the I.XX., andtftf 1 Swg$ (xr. 19), who received a tributeJhauW, long of Israel; and Semiramis, thefbsl -ukha, whose name with her husband's■tojy nand ou a statue of the god Kebo,tan the SE. palace at Nimrud.Kawliaaon considers the line of the family ■ ban terminated with Pbalukha or l'ul'47. and that the celebrated aery of Nabo-Wk dates from this year, was established ither as a refugee or as a conqueror,at Babylon. The last or Scrip-according to this system, com-"B» Hfkttk Pikwar in B. c. 747. It isJ Bsc bt represents the Baletar of Poly-■i Ptiatlny's Canon, and possibly the■ Clones, whs is I »is said (Diod. ii. 27) to I been the actual taker of Nineveh. From this periodthe names on the Assyrian inscriptions are coinci­dent with those in the Bible, though, naturally, manyadditional particulars are noticed on them, which arenot recorded in Sacred History. Some of the indi­vidual facts the inscriptions describe are worthv ofnotice: thus, the campaigns with the king of Samaria(Hoshea) and with a son of Rezin, king of Syria, arementioned in those published by the British Museum(pp. 66—72); the names of Jehu andofHazacl havebeen read (independently) by Colonel Rawlinson andDr. Uincks on the black obelisk from Nimriid, thedate of which, therefore, must be early in the ninthcentury B.C.; and the latter scholar has detected onother monuments the names of Menahcm and Ma-nasseh, kings respectively of Israel and Jonah.Lastly, the same students have discovered in theAnnals of Sennacherib (which are preserved partlyon slabs and partly on cylinders) an account of tliocelebrated campaign against Hezekiah (described in2 Kingi Erin. 14), in which Sennacherib states thathe took from the Jewish king "30 talents of gold,"the precise amount mentioned in Scripture, besidesmuch other treasure and spoiL There is still considerable doubt as to the exactyear of the final destruction of Nineveh, nnd as tothe name of the monarch then on the throne. Fromthe narratives in Tobit and Judith (if indeed thesecan be allowed to have any historical value), comparedwith a prophecy in Jeremiah written in the first yearof the Jewish captivity, B.C. 605 (Jerem. xxv. 18—26), it might be inferred that Nineveh was stillstanding in B. c. 609, but had fallen in B.C. 605.Colonel Rawlinson, however, now thinks (and hisview is confirmed by the opinion of many of the elderchronologists) that it was overthrown B. c. 625, tlioAssyrian sovereignly being from that time mergedin the empire of Babylon, and the Canon of Ptolemygiving the exact dates of the various succeedingBabylonian kings down to its capture by Cyrus inB. c. 536, in conformity with what we now knowfrom the inscriptions. We may add, in conclusion,that among the latest of the discoveries of ColonelRawlinson is the undoubted identification of thename of Belshazzar as the son of Nabonidus, thelast king of Babylon; and the finding the names otthe Greek kings Seleucus and Antiochus written inthe cuneiform character on tablets procured by Mr.Loftus from Warka. (Rawlinson, As. Journ. 1850,1852, 1855; Athenaeum, Nos. 1377, 1381, 1383,1388; Hincks.Zioy. Soc. of Liter, vol. iv.; Tram.Roy.IruhAcad. 1850,1852, 1855;Layard. A'ineittA andBabyUm; and, for an entirely new view of the Assyrianchronology, Bosanquet, Sacred and Profane Chro­nology, Lond. 8vo. 1853.) [V ] NINUS river. [Daedala.] NIPHATES (oNiextTBf, Strab. xi. pp. 522,523, 527, 529; Ptol. v. 13. § 4, vi. 1. § 1; Mela,i. 15. § 2; Plin. v. 27; Amm. Marc, xxiii. 6. § 13;Virg. Geog. iii. 30; Horat. Cam. ii. 9. 20: the laterRoman poets, by a curious mistake, made Niphates ariver; comp. Lucan, iii. 245; Sil. Ital. xiii. 775;Juven. vi. 409), the "snowy range" of Armenia,called by the native writers Sebad or Nbadagnn(St. Martin, Mem. stir tArmenie, vol. i. p. 49).Taurus, stretching E. of Commagcno (Jin Tub)*separates Sophene (Klun-put Bawassi), which iscontained between Taurus and Anti-Taurus (Strab.xi. p. 521), from Osroene (i/r/iiA), and then dividesitself into three portions. The most northerly, andhighest, are the Niphates (Asi A'ur) in Aci1' rM