OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRF. 385 and the islands of Cyprus, Rhodes *, and the Cyclades, CHAP.were successively exposed to their rapacious visits. XL- While the victorious Saracens were thus extendingtheir conquests in Asia, they were not less attentiveto Africa, which became the next object of their am­bition. In the year 638, they invaded Egypt, andin a short time made themselves masters of the opencountry ; but the siege of Alexandria was protractedduring fourteen months, and the vigorous defence ofthe garrison occasioned the loss of 23,000 Saracenswho perished in the siege. At length the Greeksembarked their dispirited and diminished numbers,and the standard of Mahomet was planted on thewalls of the capital of Egypt. This calamitous eventafflicted the declining health of Heraclius, and theemperor died of a dropsy in the year 641, about sevenweeks after the loss of Alexandria. I should deceive the expectation of the reader, if The Alex.I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrian ££j£library, as it is described bythelearned Abulpharagius.The spirit of Amrou was more curious and liberalthan that of his brethren; and, in his leisure hours,the Arabian chief was pleased with the conversationof John the last disciple of Ammonius, and who de­rived the surname of Philoponus, from his laboriousstudies of grammar and philosophy. Emboldenedby this familiar intercourse, Philoponus presumed tosolicit a gift inestimable in his opinion, contemptiblein that of the Barbarians—the royal library; whichalone, among the spoils of Alexandria, had not beenappropriated by the visit and the seal of the conqueror. * The massy trunk and huge fragments of the Colossus of Rhodes (one of thewonders of the ancient world), after lying scattered during eight centuries, werecollected by the Saracens and sold to a Jewish merchant of Edessa. He is saidto have laden 900 camels with the weight of the brass metal.—Every passage andevery fact that relates to the isle, the cky, and the Colossus of Rhodes, are com­piled in the laborious treatise of Meursius; who has bestowed the same diligenceon the two larger islands of Crete and Cyprus. See, in the 3d vol. of his works,the Rhodus of Meursius. The Byzantine writers, Theophanes and Constantine,have ignorantly prolonged the term to 1360 years, and ridiculously divide theweight among 30,000 camels. VOL. IV. C C