OCR Output 990 SICYON.SIC\ Corinthian golf. Strabo (yvli. p. 3R2) correctly de­scribes it as occupying a strong hill distant 20 stadiafrom the sea, though he adds that others made thedistance 12 stadia, which may, however, have refer­ence to the lower town built at the foot of the table-height. Upon this height the modern Tillage of Ftist-likd now stands. It is defended on every side by anatural wall of precipices, which c in be ascended onlyby'oneortwo narrow pa>sa::es from the plain. Ariver flows upon either side of the height, the one onthe eastern side being the Asopus, and that on thewestern side the Ilelisson. When Sicyon was attlie height of its pnwer, the city consisted of threeparts, the Acropulis on the hill of Vitsilika, thelower town at its foot, and a port-town upun thecoast. The port-town was well fortified. (2i»ci»-oiv'iwv \i^)v, Xen. IlelL vii. 3. § 2; Polyb. v. 27;Paus. ii. 12. § 2; Strab. /. c.) II. Ilist'riii. — Sicyun was one of the most an­cient cities of Greece, and is said to have existedunder the name of Af.giai.kia (AryidAeict, Paus. ii.5. § G) or ASOIAU (Alytakoi, Strab. viii. p. 382)long before the arrival of Pclops in Greece. It wasalso called Mf.conk. (MTjKa-er;), which was ap[»a-rently its sacerdutal name, and under which it iscelebrated as the "dwelling-place of the blessed,"and as the sjxit where Prometheus instituted the Hel­lenic sacrifices and deceived /.ens. (Steph. B. *. v.2iKuwr; Strab. viii. p. 382; Cailim. Fragm. 195, p.5l3,ed. Ernesti; Hesiod. Theog.53bS) Its name Tkl-ClllNiA (Tt\xiVia) 'Ias reference to its being one ofthe e irliest seats of the workers in metal. (Steph. B.t. v. "XtKvvv). Its name Aegialeia was derivedfrom a mythical autochthon Aegialeus, and pointsto the time when it was the chief city upon thesouthern coast of the Corinthian gulf, the whole ofwhich was called by the same name. Its latername of Sicyon was said to have been derived fromnn Athenian of this name, who became king of thelily, and who is represented as a son of either Ma­rathon or Met ion. (Pans. ii. 6. § 5.) This legendpoints to the fact that the early inhabitants ofSicyun were Ionian*. Aegialeus is said, in sometraditions, to have been the son of Inachns, thefirst king of Argos, and the brother of Phoroneus.A long series of the successors of Aegialeus is given,among whom one of the most celebrated was theArgive Adrastus, who, being expelled from his owndominions, fled to Polybus, then king of Sicyon, andafterwards succeeded him on the throne. (Kuseb.Chron. p. 11, seq.; August Civ. JJei, xviii. 2; Pans,ii. 6. 6, 7.) Homer indeed calls Adrastus firstking of Sicyon (Horn. //. ii. 572); and we knowthat in historical limes this hero was worshippedin the city. (Herod, v. 67.) Sicyon was subse­quently conquered by Agamemnon, who, however,left Hippolytns on the throne; but Sicyon became atributary city to Mycenae. (Pans. ii. 6. 6, 7;Horn. II. ii. 572. xxiii. 21)9.) Hippolytns was thegrandson of Phaestus, who was a son of Hercules;and in consequence of this connection, the inhabit­ants were not expelled or reduced to subjectionupon the conquest of the city by the Dorians underPhalces, the son of Temenns; for while the DorianConquerors, as in all other Doric states, were di­vided into three tribes under the names of Hylleis,Pamphyli, and Dymanatae, the original Sicyonianiwere formed into a fourth tribe, under the name ofAegialeis, which possessed the same political rightsas the other three. (Paus. ii. 6. § 7; Strab. viii.p. 3S9; Herod, v. 68.) Sicyon was now a Dorian state; and from this tiiIt was at first dependentwhich was for some timethe Peloponnesus, SpartaFirst Measenau War th<side of the. Messenians aArcadians. (Pans, iv.Messenian War, aboutsubject to the tyrannygoverned the city for iwhose rule is praised byfor its mildness. The Ibelonged to the non-D>tinuance of their powerthe fact of their beingpopulation against the Igoras, the founder of tlbeen originally a cook.Phot. cod. 279, p. 530;Retake ) In other nrejsas the first of the Sic;126; Diod. Fragm. Vatthat he is the same jeitwo names do not occurwas succeeded by his sonriot victory at OlympiaAristonymus; and Ad(Herod, vi. 126; Paus. iilatter was celebrated facence, and was also dihatred against Argos, anto depress and dishouoichanged the ancient anthree Dorian tribes into tatae, Oneatae, and Choerwords signifying the sowhile he declared the siby giving it the designatthe people. Cleisthenesdespot till his death, wlb. c 560. The dynastileft no son; but his <tomany suitors wooed, wa_-llsgaclss, of the great faand became the motherof the Athenian deuiocrthe Peisistratidae. Theby Cleisthenes continuedthe death of the tyrant, ithe ancient names were—131; Grute, Hist, ofDiet, of Biogr. art. ClkA Dorian reaction a[place, for during a kSicyonians were the steiIn the invasion of Greetthe Sicyon ians sent aSalamis (Herod, viii. 4hoplites to Plataea. (interval between the Persthe territory was twice ithe Athenians, first unc1(Tone. i. 108; Paus. i. 2under Pericles, b. c. 45488). A few years latersupported the Mega . -(Thuc. i. 114.) In thsided with Sparta, and bethe Peloponnesian fleet.b. c. 424 the Sicyonianioperations against the i