OCR Output OF R O M E. had pafied through the higheft dignities with fingular B O O Khonour, finding the intelligence which arrived grow . -t-_jmore and more alarming, and that the confuls would Y.R. 314.not be directed by the fenate, cxprefied himfelfthus: B.4"41*'"Tribunes of the commons, matters having come'' to extremity, the fenate appeals to you, that, in"the prefent alarming ftate of public affairs, ye," may, by the authority vefted in you, oblige the"confuls to name a dictator." This applicationfeemed to the tribunes to afford them a good oppor­tunity of extending their power; wherefore, afterretiring together, they declared, by the authority oftheir body, that " it was their determination that"the confuls mould follow the directions of the fc-"nate, and that if they perfifted in their oppofition"to the fentiments of that moft illuftrious body,"they would order them to be carried to prifon."The confuls were better pleafed to be overcome bythe tribunes than by the fenate, at the fame time re-monftrating, that " the prerogatives of the chief"magiftracy were betrayed by the fenators, and the"confulfhip fubjugated to the tribunitian power. If"the confuls were liable to be over-ruled by a tri-"bune, by virtue of his office, in any particular,"they were liable alfo to be fent to prifon. And"what greater hardfhip could any private perfon"apprehend?" It fell by lot, for even on thatpoint the colleagues could not agree, to Titus Quin-tius to name the dictator, and he named Aulus Pof-tumius Tubertus, his own father-in-law, a man ofremarkable ftrictnefs in command. Lucius Juliuswas by him nominated rnafter of the horfe. At thefame time, a proclamation was iflued for a vacationfrom civil bufirtefs, and that nothing mould be at­tended to, in any part of the city, but preparationsfor the war. The examination of the cafes of thofewho claimed immunity from fervice, was deferred , until the conclufion of the war, which induced eventhofe, whole claims were doubtful, to give in their6 • names.