OCR Output AN. Ub 165. J ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sight of the temple. So he chose out someoi his soldiers, and gave them order to fightagainst those guards that were in the citadel;until he should have purified the temple.When therefore he had carefully purged it,and had brought in new vessels; the candle­stick, the table of shew-bread, and the altarof incense, which were made of gold; hehung up the veils at the gates, and addeddoors to them. He also took down the altarof burnt-offering; and built a new one ofstones that he gathered together, and notof such as are hewn with iron tools.* So onthe five and twentieth day of the month Cas-leu, which the Macedonians call Apelleus,they lighted the lamps that were on the can­dlestick; and offered incense upon the altarof incense; and laid the loaves upon the ta­ble of shew-bread, and offered burnt-offeringsupon the new altar of burnt-offering. Nowit happened, that these things were done onthe very same day on which their divineworship had fallen off, and was reduced to aprofane and common use, after three years'time. For so it was, that the temple wasmade desolate by Antiochus, and so con­tinued for three years. For this desolationhappened to the temple in the hundred andforty-fifth year; on the twenty-fifth day of themonth Apelleus; and on the first year of thehundred and fifty-third Olympiad. But itwas dedicated anew, on the same day, thetwenty-fifth of the month Apelleus, on the hundred and forty-eighth year; and on thefourth year of the hundred and fifty-fourthOlympiad. And this desolation came to passaccording to the prophecy of Daniel, whichwas given ffour hundred and eight yearsbefore. For he declared that the Macedo­nians would dissolve that worship,! for sometime. Now Judas celebrated the festival of therestoration of the sacrifices at the temple foreight days:|| and omitted no sort of pleasuresthereon: but he feasted the people upon veryrich and splendid sacrifices :§ and he honour­ed God, and delighted them, by hymns andpsalms. Nay they were so very glad at therevival of their customs, when, after a Iontime of intermission, they unexpectedly hairegained the freedom of their worship, thatthey made it a law for their posterity, thatthey should keep a festival on account of therestoration of their temple-worship, for eightdays. And from that time to this we cele­brate this festival, and call it Lights. I sup­pose the reason was, because this liberty be­yond our hopes appeared to us; and thencewas the name given to that festival. Judasalso rebuilt the walls round about the city;and reared towers of great height againstthe incursions of the enemies; and set guardstherein. He also fortified the city Beth-sura, that it might serve as a citadel againstany distresses that might come from ourenemies. * Exodus xx. 25. t Therefore Daniel, in Josephus's copies, saw thevision in his 8th chapter, not on the 3d of Belshazzar, buton the first of Darius the Mede. Lit. Accompl. of Proph.Suppl. page 106, 107, 108. And we may also take notice,as we did before, on a like case, in the note on XI. 5. withwhat an unusual accuracy Josephus here determines thebeginning and ending of these three years of Antiochus'sprofanation of the temple; and adds to the exact num­bers of the years of the Seleucidae, which he had out ofthe first book of the Maccabees, the Olympiads, underwhich both its beginning and ending fell: and this seemsdone on purpose by him, because of the exact fulfilling ofDaniel's prophecy hereby; as he observes in this place. I For 1096 days, or three years. II This festival is commemorated in the Gospel, Johnii. 23. and our blessed Saviour, we are told, came up toJerusalem on purpose to bear a part in the solemnizingof it. Some indeed are of opinion, that it was anotherdedication feast, which Christ thus honoured with his pre­sence: but besides that the dedications both of Solomon'sand Zerubbabel's temples who (though they were verysolemnly celebrated at the first erection of these temples,)had never any anniversary feast afterwards kept in corn- memoration of them, the very history of the Gospel(which tells us, that it was kept in winter,) confines us tothis dedication of Judas only. That of Solomon was onthe seventh month, which fell about the time of theautumnal equinox: and that of Zerubbabel was on thetwelfth month, which fell in the beginning of the spring;but that of Judas Maccabeus was on their twenty-fifth dayof the ninth month, which fell in the middle of winterSo that the feast of the dedication which Christ was pre­sent at in Jerusalem, was no other than that which wasinstituted by Judas, in commemoration of his dedicationof the temple anew, after that it had been cleansed fromidolatrous pollutions: and from hence Grotius, (in hisCommentary on the Gospel of St. John, chap. x. 22,) veryjustly observes, that festival days, in memory of publicblessings, may be piously instituted by persons in author­ity, without a divine command. Prideaxuc1 $ Connection,an. 166. B. § Sacrifices, as to their primary object, were designedto appease or honour the Deity: and as the accomplish­ment of that object was of great importance to those whooffered them, it appears a proper expression of their joythat they should feast at the same time. Hence it becameuniversal to feast upon the sacrifices offered unto God. B 4C2