OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. gravest of the ecclesiastical historians, Eusebius himself, very franklyconfesses, that he has related whatever might redound to the glory,and that he has suppressed all that could tend to the disgrace of reli­gion "7. Such an acknowledgment will naturally excite a suspicion,that a writer who has so openly violated one of the fundamentallaws of history, has not paid a very strict regard to the observanceof the other: and the suspicion will derive additional credit fromthe character of Eusebius, which was less tinctured with credulity,and more practised in the arts of courts than that of almost any ofhis contemporaries. On some particular occasions, when the ma­gistrates were exasperated by some personal motives of interest orresentment, when the zeal of the martyrs urged them to forget therules-of prudence and perhaps of decency, to overturn the altars^ topdur out imprecations against the emperors, ot to strike the judgeas he fit on his tribunal, it maybe presumed that every mode oftOrttire; which cruelty could invent or constancy could endure, wasexhausted on those devoted victims '78. Two'circumstances, how­ever, have been unwarily mentioned, which insinuate that the ge­neral treatment of the Christians who had been apprehended by theofficers of justicewas less, intolerable than it is usually imagined tohare been. r. The confessors who were condemned to work in themines, were permitted; by the hurtianity or the negligence of theirkeepers, to build'chapels, and freely to profess their religion in the'midst0 of those dreary habitations ,7'. 2. The Bishops were obligedto'check and to censure the forward zeal of the Christians, who vo­luntarily threwthemsclves' into'th'e tiaffdVof tHemagiffrates. Softie of'these were persons oppressed by poverty/and'debtfc', who blindly foughtto terminate a miserable existence by a glorious death. Others were1allured by the hope, that a short'eonsinernent would'expiate the sins-'of a whole life; and others again were actuated by the less'honour­able motive of deriving a plentiful-subsistence,, arfdJ perhaps? a cOftsi**drrable profit,, from the alms which the charity of the faithful bei. z stowed: