OCR Output 420 NOTES. 215 ^ras*'s locis, sc. the wilderness or deserts of Arabia.—Pet lacrimas = inter lacrimas. Wr.—Torpentibus. Sunk in inaction.37. Sed siblmet . . . pepulissent. The reading and the mean­ing of this difficult passage have been much disputed. It is particu­larly a question whether sibimet refers to Moses or to the exiles, andwhether duci should be read in the dative or the ablative Pepulis­sent is also referred by some to the past and by others to the future.Without dwelling on the reasons for it, the following is given as onthe whole the most satisfactory version: but they should trust to him­self, a celestial leader, by whose aid first (tho first offored them) theywould soon avert their present calamities. It will be seen, that inthis version pepulissent is taken as the subj. of tl/e oratio obliqua usedfor the future perfect of the oratio recta, and that fut. perf. nsed for thesimple fut. for the sake of implying rapidity, i. e. in the oratio recta, itwould be pepulcritis. Cf. Z. 511 and 496, 5. 2lg 5. Conjectura .... soli. Led by inference .fom the grassysoil. 8. Dicata. Al. dicata sunt. Dicata is nom. pl. neut, Cf. Gr.205, R 2, (2); Z. 376, b. The clause is a concise expression for urbscondita et templum dicatum est, with the additional implication, how­ever, of the sacredness of the city as well as the temple. Cii. IV.—9. Q,uo sibl .... firmaret. Rather to preserve themfrom the idolatry which the rest of the world practised. Put Deo in­stead of sibi here (as after crederent in the previous section), and Twill bo quite correct. 12. Effigiem animalis, sc. asini. Cf. 3. This charge of holdingsacred the image of an ass is reiterated by very many classic writers.Cf. Rup. ad loc. It gained currency perhaps for no other reason somuch, as that it was a convenient topic of ridicule and satire on a de­spised people. T. expressly declares, in the very next section, thatthey allowed no images in their temple. The Bipontines explainaway the contradiction by'supposing that sacrare penetrali does nothere mean to consecrate as an object of worship, but to preserve as asacred memorial. But '/ It may not be amiss to observe, in this con­nection, that the ass was held in high esteem by the Jews, insomuchthat kings aud princes rode on asses and were forbidden to multiplyhorses. Deut. 17, 16; 2 Sam. 8, 4; Mat. 21, 5.—Errorem sitimque',i. e. sitim, qua errabundi cruciabautur, by hendiadys. Wr. 13. Caeso ariete. While the ram is slain (sacrificed). 14. In contumellam Ham mollis. Ammou was represented andworshipped under the image of a ram's head (Herod. 2, 42), theoriginal idea of the god being that of a protector and leader of theflocks. Cf. Diet. Mythol. and Biog., Amman. 15. Quia. Al. quom.—Apin. Apis was a sacred bull at Mem­phis, which received the highest honors as a god among tho Egyptian*