OCR Output 346 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When Jeroboam the king had passed hislife in great happiness, and had ruled fortyyears,* he died, and was buried in Samaria;and his son Zechariah took the kingdom.After the same manner did Uzziah, the sonof Amaziah, begin to reign over the two tribesin Jerusalem in the fourteenth year of thereign of Jeroboam. He was a good man, andby nature magnanimous, and very laboriousin taking care of the affairs of his kingdom.He made an expedition against the Philis­tines, and overcame them in battle, and tookthe cities of Gath and Jabneh, and brakedown their walls. After which expeditionhe assaulted those Arabs that adjoined toEgypt . He also built a city upon the RedSea, and put a garrison in it; and, havingoverthrown the Ammonites, and appointedthat they should pay tribute, he subdued allthe countries as far as to the bounds of Egypt;and then began to take care of Jerusalem,for the rest of his life. For he rebuilt andrepaired all those parts of the wall whichhad either fallen down by length of time, orby the carelessness of his predecessors; aswell as all that part which had been throwndown by the king of Israel, when he took hisfather Amaziah prisoner,! and entered withhim into the city. Moreover he built a greatmany towers, of a hundred *and fifty cubitshigh; and built walled towns in desert places,and put garrisons into them, and dug manychannels for conveyance of water. He hadalso many beasts of labour, and an immensenumber of cattle; for his country was fit for pasturage; and being addicted to husbandry,he took care to cultivate the ground; andplanted it with all sorts of plants, and sowedit with all sorts of seeds. He had also abouthim an army composed of three hundred andseventy thousand chosen men, who weregoverned by two thousand general; officers,and captains of thousands, who were men ofvalour, and of unconquerable strength. Healso divided his whole army into bands, andarmed them; giving every one a sword, withbrazen bucklers and breast-plates, with bowsand slings; and besides these, he made forthem many engines of war,J for besieging ofcities; such as cast stones and darts, withgrapplers, and other instruments of thatsort . While Uzziah|| was in this state, and ma­king preparations for futurity, he was cor­rupted in his mind by pride,§ and becameinsolent; on account of that abundance whichhe had of things that will soon perish; anddespised that power which is of eternal du­ration, which consisted in piety towardsGod, and in the observance of his laws: so hefell by occasion of the success of his affairs,and was carried headlong into those sins ofhis fathers, which the splendour of that pros- Eerity he enjoyed, and the glorious actionse had done, led him into: while he wasunable to govern himself well about them.Accordingly when a remarkable day wascome, and a general festival was to be cele­brated, he put on the holy garment, andwent into the temple to offer incense to God and Deaths of the prophets, (who goes under the name ofEpiphanus) tells us, returning from Nineveh, and beingashamed to see that his prediction was not fulfilled, heretired with his mother to the city of Tyre, where helived in the plain of Sear, until he died, and was buriedin the cave of Cenezeus, judge of Israel; but who theauthor means by Cenezeus, unless it be Caleb, who isfrequently surnamed the Kenezite, (though we do notread of his being ever a judge of Israel,) or rather Othniel,who was the son of Kenez, and one that judged Israel,we cannot tell. Calmet's Dictionary, under the wordJonah; and Howell's History, in the notes. B. * Forty-one years, Hebrew, from an. 826 to 785 B. C. t See chap. ix. I This is the first time that we read of any machine,either for besieging or defending towns; which is plainlythe reason why sieges were of so long a continuance be­fore the invention of these. Homer, who is the mostancient Greek writer we know of that treats of sieges,describes a kind of entrenchment, though a poor one,some lines of circumvallation, and a ditch with palisades; but we hear not one word of .any machines, such as theballistae and the catapultae, which were used for hurlingstones and throwing darts; and therefore we need lesswonder, that the famous siege of Troy continued so long.Sardanapalus king of Assyria maintained himself in Ninevehfor seven years, because the besiegers, as Diodorus ob­serves, lib. 2. wanted such engines as were fit for de­molishing and taking of cities, they being not then invented.Uzziah was certainly the first inventor of them; andtherefore it is said, that for these and other warlike pre­parations, his name was spread abroad. From this timethey began to be employed, both in attacking and de­fending towns; and therefore we find the prophet Ezekieldescribing the future sieges of Jerusalem and Tyre, wherehe makes mention of battering-rams, and engines of war,or, as it should be rendered, machines of cords, which, inall probability, were what latter ages called their ballisticand catapultae. Calmet's Dissertation sifr la milice desanciens Hebreux. B. II About an. 766. § 2 Cbron. xxvi. 16. et sequel.