OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 55 personal prowess of a soldier; and the example of chap.Belisarius may be added to the rare examples of xxxtv-Henry IV. of Pyrrhus, and of Alexander. After this first and unsuccessful trial of their ene- His defencemies, the whole army of the Goths passed the Tyber, ot Rome'and formed the siege of the city, which continuedabove a year, till their final departure. Whateverfancy may conceive, the severe compass of the geo­grapher defines the circumference of Rome within aline of twelve miles and three hundred and forty-fivepaces; and that circumference, except in the Vatican,has invariably been the same, from the triumph ofAurelian to the peaceful but obscure reign of themodern popes*. But in the day of her greatness,the space within her walls was crowded with habita­tions and inhabitants; and the populous suburbs, thatstretched along the public roads, were darted likeso many rays from one common centre. Adversityswept away these extraneous ornaments, and leftnaked and desolate a considerable part even of theseven hills. Yet Rome in its present state could sendinto the field above thirty thousand males of a militaryage; and, notwithstanding the want of discipline andexercise, the far greater part, inured to the hardshipsof poverty, might be capable of bearing arms for thedefence of their country and religion. The prudenceof Belisarius did not neglect this important resource.His soldiers were relieved by the zeal and diligenceof the people, who watched while they slept, andlaboured while they reposed: he accepted the volun­tary service of the bravest and most indigent of theRoman youth; and the companies of townsmen some- • M. d'Anville has given, in the Memoirs of the Academy for the year 1756 (tom. xxx. p. 198 236), a plan of Rome on a smaller scale, but far more accurate than that which he had delineated in 1738 for Rollin's history. Ex­perience had improved his knowledge; and, instead of Rossi's topography, heused the new and excellent map of Nolli. Pliny's old measure of xiii mustbe reduced to viii miles. It is easier to alter a text, than to remove hills orbuildings. r E 4