OCR Output 264 tit(JS LiVitrS' BOOK III. ing their hatred to the decemvirs, passed a vote, thatguards should patrole the city, and that all who werecapable of bearing arms, should be posted to guard thewalls and the gales. They likewise decreed, that thetroops at Tuscuium should be reinforced, and a supplyof arms sent them; besides, they ordered the decemvirsto leave the citadel, and encamp the troops in the 'openplain, whilst the army at Fidenae should march iuto theSabine territories, that by carrying the war into the ene­my's country, they might be'diverted from all thoughtsof attacking Rome. Bi CHAP. XLIII. Base treatment of Siccius. lESIDES these calamities inflicted by the enemy,there were two very enormous actions committed by thedecemvirs, the one in-thecamp, and the other in the city.In the army sent against the Sabine*, L. Siccius, instigat­ed by his aversioirto the decemvirs, had, in private con­ferences with the soldiers, mentioned the expediency ofcreating triburres, and making a secesssion, for which rea­son, he was sent before the army by the generals, to lookout for a place proper for their camp. The soldiers whoattended him in this expedition, had secret ovdt-rs, when­ever they had got to a convenient place, to fall upon Sic­cius and dispatch him. He sold his life dear. For, being strong and vigor­ous, he made a noble resistance; and though surroundedby the assassins, he defended himself with a courage equalto l)is strength, so that some of the ruffians lay deadaround him. The survivors returned to the camp, wherethey reported, that Siccius had inconsiderately fallen in­to an ambuscade, and that he had lost his life, fightingvaliantly, as did also some of his party. This account ofthe matter was ut first believed; but afterwards, when,by permission of the decemvirs, a cohort was detachedto bury thttdead; and finding, on their arrival none ofthe bodies stripi, Siccius lying in the middle in his ar­mour, all the dead with their faces towards him, not anenemy among them, nor any vestige of their leaving th*'