OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 311 order that he might not at some future time come fromAsia to the help of the Italian revolution, just as Sulla nowhoped to return from Asia and crush it. At Cypsela on theHebrus Sulla obtained accounts of the ratification of thepeace by Mithradates; but the march to Asia went on.The king, it was said, desired personally to confer with theRoman general and to cement the peace with him; it maybe presumed that this was simply a convenient pretext fortransferring the army to Asia and there putting an end toFimbria. So Sulla, attended by his legions and by Arche- Peace atlaus, crossed the Hellespont; after he had met with Mith- Dardanus.radates on its Asiatic shore at Dardanus and had orallyconcluded the treaty, he made his army continue its marchtill he came upon the camp of Fimbria at Thyatira not farfrom Pergamus, and pitched his own close beside it. The SullaSullan soldiers, far superior to the Fimbrians in number, againstdiscipline, leadership, and ability, looked with contempt on Flmtlria.the dispirited and demoralized troops and their uncalledcommander-in-chief. Desertions from the ranks of the Fim­brians became daily more numerous. When Fimbria orderedan attack, the soldiers refused to fight against their fellow-citizens, or even to take the oath which he required thatthey would stand faithfully by each other in battle. Anattempt to assassinate Sulla miscarried; at the conferencewhich Fimbria requested Sulla did not make his appearance,but contented himself with suggesting to him through oneof his officers a means of personal escape. Fimbria was of Fimbria'san insolent temperament, but he was no poltroon; instead death.of accepting the vessel which Sulla offered to him and flee­ing to the barbarians, he went to Pergamus and fell on hisown sword in the temple of Asklepios. Those who weremost compromised in his army resorted to Mithradates orto the pirates, with whom they found ready reception; themain body placed itself under the orders of Sulla. Sulla determined to leave these two legions, whom he did Regulationnot trust for the impending war, behind in Asia, where the of Asiaticfearful crisis left for long its lingering traces in the several affairs-cities and districts. The command of this corps and thegovernorship of Roman Asia he committed to his best officer,Lucius Licinius Murena. The revolutionary measures ofMithradates, such as the liberation of the slaves and theannulling of debts, were of course cancelled; a restoration,which in many places could not be carried into effect without t