OCR Output IMAUS. 41 IMliROS. Seroda, in Granada and California), and survivesin the modern Himalaya. From very early times the Greeks were aware ofa great line of mountains running throughout CentralAsia, nearly E. and \Y., between the 36th and 37thdegrees of latitude, and which was known by thename of the diaphragm of Dicaearchus, or theparallel of Rhodes. The Macedonian expeditions of Alexander andSelf ocus Xicator opened up Asia as far as the sourcesof the Ganges, but not further. But the knowledgewhich the Greeks thus obtained of Asia was muchenlarged by intercourse with other Eastern nations.The indications given by Strabo and Ptolemy (7. a),when compared with the orographic configura­tion of the Asiatic continent, recognise in a veryremarkable manner the principal features of themountain chain of Central Asia, which extends fromthe Chinese province of /loupe, S. of the gulf ofPelckeli, along the line of the Kuen-liin (not, as hasgenerally been supposed, the Himalaya), continuingfrom the Hmdu-Kush along the S. shores of theCaspian through Mnzanderan, and rising in thecrater-shaped summit of Damdvend, through thepus of Elburt and Ghilan, until it terminates in theTurns in the SW. corner of Asia Minor. It istrue that there is a break between Taurus and theW. continuation of the Hindi-Kiish, but the cold"plateaux" of Aterbijan and Kurdistan, and theisolated summit of Ararat, might easily give rise tothe (apposed continuity both of Taurus and Anti-Tanros from Karamania and Argaeus up to thehigh chain of Elburz, which separates the damp,wooded, and unhealthy plains of Mazanderdn fromthe arid * plateaux " of Irak and Khurasan. The name of Imaus was, as has been seen, in thefirst instance, applied by the Greek geographers tothe Hindii-Kush and to the chain parallel to theequator to which the name of Himalaya is usuallygiven in the present day. Gradually the name wastransferred to the colossal intersection running N.sod S.,—the meridian axis of Central Asia, or theBolor range. The division of Asia into " intra etextra Imauin" was nnknown to Strabo and Pliny,though the latter describes the knot of mountainsformed by the intersections of the Himalaya, theBwtit-Kush, and Bohr, by the expression " quorum(Monte* Emodi) promontorium Imaus vocatur " (vi.17). The Bolor chain has been for ages, with oneor two exceptions, the boundary between the empiresof China and Turkestan; but the ethnographicaldistinction between " Scythia intra et extra Imaum"was probably suggested by the division of India into"intra et extra Gangem," and of the whole con­tinent into " intra et extra Taurum." In Ptolemy,or rather in the maps appended to all the editions,and attributed to Agathodaemon, the meridian chainof Imaus is prolonged up to the most northerly plainsof the Irtych and Obi. The positive notions of theaodents upon the route of commerce from theEophrsta to the Seres, forbid the opinion, that theidea of an Imaus running from N. to S., and N. ofthe Himalaya, dividing Upper Asia into two equalparts, was a mere geographic dream. The expres­sions of Ptolemy are so precise, that there can belittle doubt but that he was aware of the existenceof the Bolor range. In the special description ofCentral Asia, he speaks twice of Imaus running from&• to N., and, indeed, clearly calls it a meridianchain (inra uAonutoirhy w«m ypaufiiiv, Ptol. vi.'*• § I: comp, vL 13. § 1), and places at the foot of Imaus the Byltae (BPxtoi, vi. 13. § 3), in thecountry of Little Thibet, which still bears the in­digenous name of Baltistan. At the sources of theIndus are the Daradrae (viii. 1. § 42), theDardars or Derders mentioned in the poem of theMahdbhdrata and in the fragments of Megnsthenes,through whom the Greeks received accounts of theregion of auriferous sand, and who occupied the S.slopes of the Indian Caucasus, a little to the W. ofKaschmir. It is to be remarked that Ptolemy doesnot attach Imaus to the Comedorum Months(Koundout), but places the Imaus too far to the E.,8° further than the meridian of the principal sourceof the Ganges (Gungotri). The cause of this mis­take, in placing Imaus so far further towards theE. than the Bolor range, no doubt arose from thedata upon which Ptolemy came to his conclusionbeing selected from two different sources. TheGreeks first became acquainted with the ComedorumMonies when they passed the Indian Caucasus be­tween Cttbul and Balkh, and advanced over tho"plateau " of Bamian along the W. slopes of Bolor,where Alexander found, in the tribe of the Sibae,the descendants of Heracles (Strab. xvi. p. 688),just as Marco Polo and Burnes (Travels in Bokhara,vol. ii. p. 214) met with people who boasted thatthey had sprung from the Macedonian conquerors.The N. of Bolor was known from the route of thetraffic of the Seres, as described by Marinus ofTyre and Ptolemy (i. 12). The combination ofnotions obtained from such different sources wasimperfectly made, and hence the error in longi­tude. These obscure orographical relations have beenillustrated by Humboldt upon the most logical prin­ciples, and the result of many apparently contra­dictory accounts is so presented as to form oneconnected whole. (Asie Centrah, vol. i. pp. 100—164, vol. ii. pp. 365—440.) The Bolor range is one link of a long series ofelevated ranges running, as it were, from S. to N.,which, with axes parallel to each other, but alter­nating in their localities, extend from Cape Comorinto the Icy Sea, between the 64th and 75th degreesof longitude, keeping a mean direction of SSE. andNNW. Lassen (lndische A Iterthumskunde) coincideswith the results obtained by Humboldt. [E. B. J.] I'MBRASUS ("lM6>a<rot), one of the three smallrivers flowing down from Mount Ampelus in thoisland of Samos. (Strab. xiv. p. 637 ; Plin. v. 37.)According to a fragment from Callimachus (213;comp. Schol. ad Apollon. Shod. i. 187, ii. 868), thisriver, once called Parthenius, flowed in front of theancient sanctuary of Hera, outside the town of Samos,and the goddess derived from it the surname ofImbrasia. [L. S.] IMBRIKIUM. [Samnium.] IMBROS ("I/ts>f: Eth. "Ifitpios), an island inthe Aegaean sea, off the SW. coast of the ThraeianGhersonesns, and near the islands of Samothraceand Lomnos. According to Pliny (ir. 12. s. 23), Im-bros is 62 miles in circumference; but this is nearlydouble its real size. It is mountainous and wellwooded, and its highest summit is 1845 feet abovethe level of the sea. It contains, however, severalfertile valleys, and a river named Ilissus in antiquity.(Plin. I. c.) Its town on the northern side wascalled by the same name, and there are still someruins of it remaining. Imbros was inhabited inearly times by the Pelasgians, and was, like theneighbouring islind of Samothrace, celebrated for its