OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 337 their safety to the power of Rome. To accomplish these salutaryends, the constant residence of an imperial governor, supported bya numerous army, was indispensably requisite. Probus thereforejudged it more expedient to defer the execution of so great a de­sign; which was indeed rather of specious than solid utility 40. HadGermany been reduced into the state of a province, the Romans,with immense labour and expence, would have acquired only amore extensive boundary to defend against the fiercer and moreactive barbarians of Scythia. Instead of reducing the warlike natives of Germany to the con- He builds a ... e _ , . _ , , wall from thi dition or lubjects, Probus contented himself with the humble ex- Rhine to thepedient of raising a bulwark against their inroads. The country, Danube'which now forms the circle of Swabia, had been left desert in theage of Augustus by the emigration of its ancient inhabitants *\The fertility of the soil soon attracted a new colony from the ad­jacent provinces of Gaul. Crowds of adventurers, of a roving tem­per and of desperate fortunes, occupied the doubtful possession, andacknowledged, by the payment of tythes, the majesty of the em­pire **. To protect these new subjects, a line of frontier garrisons wasgradually extended from the Rhine to the Danube. About the reignof Hadrian, when that mode of defence began to be practised, thesegarrisons were connected and covered by a strong intrenchment of treesand palisades. In the place of so rude a bulwark, the emperor Probusconstructed a stone-wall of a considerable height, and strengthenedit by towers at convenient distances. From the neighbourhood ofNewstadt. and Ratifbon on the Danube, it stretched across hills,vallies, rivers, and morasses, as far as Wimpfen on the Necker,and at length terminated on the banks of the Rhine, after a wind­ing course of near two hundred miles+J. This important barrier,uniting the two mighty streams that protected the provinces of Europe*seemed to fill up the vacant space through which the barbarians, andparticularly the Alemanni, could penetrate with the greatest faci-, Vol. I. X x lity