OCR Output 849- . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. demned, which exasperated the senators prodigiously.Ronnlius was fined in 10,000 asses, and Veturius inV5.000 brass asses. Notwithstanding this example thesucceeding consuls abated nothing of iheir usual activity,but swore, that were they also to be condemned, they'would never suffer the people and their demagogues tocarry the law. The tribunes then dropping their bill, which had beenso often tabled, that it \yas now worn to rags ^ and as­suming a milder tone than hitherto, when addressing thesenators, requested, " that they would now put aa end"to all contention, and since Plebeian laws were disa-"greeable to them, that they .would suffer legislator?,"partly Patricians and partly Plebeians, to be created,."for establishing laws for the common benefit, and cotn-"mon security of all ranks, in point of liberty." Thesenators made no other objection to this proposal, but theadmission of Plebeians into the number of the legislators.When therefore they were agreed upon having taws, thenext point to be settled was the nomination of those tobe put in commission to make them. Spurius Post-humius Albus, A. Manilas, P. Sulpitiul Camerinus werecommissioned and sent to Athens, to copy the celebratedlaws of Solon, and to learn the statutes, usages, and lawsof the other states of Greece. CHAP. XXXII. The Commissioners from Greece returned, and the Deccm*•mm proposed for compiling the new laws. A. R. 300. .l HE Romans had no longer war to disturb them allthis year, nor in the following consulship of P. Horatiusand S. Quinctilius, which was still more remarkable forthe constant taciturnity of the tribunes, occasioned bythe deputation to Athens, and their expectation of fo­reign laws; add to this, that they were terribly afflictedwith famine and pestilence, equally destructive to manand beast. The country became a solitude; constantburials thinned the city; and many families, some ofthem of the first distinction, were always in mourning.Ser. Cornelius, high priest of Romulus, died of the