OCR Output CIiAfe.4U ROMAN HISTORY. . 261 "they had matters of the greatest consequence before"them, that considerations less weighty should be post­poned, till these be once discussed. With respect tothe charge brought against the decemvirs by Valeriusand Horatius, that their authority had expired on theides of May; he was of opinion, that the moment thewars with which they were threatened should bebrought to a conclusion, and peace once more restoredto the republic, the senate should take the matter un­der consideration; whilst Appius in the mean timeshould be preparing for his defence, being sensible hemust answer for those comitia, which in his first de-cemvirate he had held for the election of new decem­virs, that the senate might judge with precision, whe­ther their office was to continue for one year only, ortill such |aw' as .were then wanted, should be com­pleted At present it was his own opinion, that thewar was the only object they ought to have in view.If they thought themselves imposed on by a falsealarm, both by the-messengers and Tusculan deputies,it was their bussiess to come at the certaisty, by send- -ing out scouts to make the -strictest enquiry. But ifthey saw no reason to treat with diffidence the intel­ligence they had received, a moment should not belost in levying the army, which the decemvirs shouldlead out against the enemy, where they might seeproper; and previously to all other things, this oughtto be done." CHAP. XLI. The Decemvirs carry the point for the present.' . J. HE young Patricians supported this opinion with alltheir might, and it passed by a plurality of voices. Va­lerius and Horatius then rose a second time with greaterwarmth than ever, crying aloud, " That they wanted to"-•speak relative to the state of the Republic; declaring,"at the same time, that if the power of faction should"compel them to silence in the senate, they would im-"mediately go out and address themselves to the peo-"pie. That private persons had no power to shut their"mouths either in the senate, or an assembly of the peo­