OCR Output .516 ROMAN EMPIRE. himself commanded the centre, and the vanguard wasgiven to his son Abbas, who, in the trial of the firstadventures, might succeed with the more glory, or failwith the least reproach. In the revenge of his injury,the caliph prepared to retaliate a similar affront. Thefather of Theophilus was a native of Amorium* inPhrygia: the original seat of the imperial house hadbeen adorned with privileges and monuments; andwhatever might be the indifference of the people, Con­stantinople itself was scarcely of more value in the eyesof the sovereign and his court. The name of Amoriumwas inscribed on the shields of the Saracens; and theirthree armies were again united under the walls of thedevoted city. It had been proposed by the wisest coun­sellors, to evacuate Amorium, to remove the inhabitants,and to abandon the empty structures to the vain resent­ment of the barbarians. The emperor embraced themore generous resolution of defending, in a siege andbattle, the country of his ancestors. When the armiesdrew near, the front of the Mahometan line appeared toa Roman eye more closely planted with spears andjavelins; but the event of the action was not glorious oneither side to the national troops. The Arabs werebroken, but it was by the swords of thirty thousand Per­sians, who had obtained service and settlement in theByzantine empire. The Greeks were repulsed and van­quished, but it was by the arrows of the Turkish cavalry:and had not their bow-strings been damped and relaxedby the evening rain, very few of the Christians couldhave escaped with the emperor from the field of battle.They breathed at Doryleeum, at the distance of threedays; and Theophilus, reviewing his trembling squa­drons, forgave the common flight both of the prince andpeople. After this discovery of his weakness, he vainly z Amorium is seldom mentioned by the old geographers, and totally forgotten inthe Roman Itineraries. After the sixth century, it became an episcopal see, and atlength the metropolis of the new Galatia. (Carol. Seto. Paulo, Geograph. Sacra,p. 234.) "The city rose again from its ruins, if we should read Ammvria, not An-gvria, in the text of the Nubian Geographer, (p. 236.)