OCR Output 306 THE DECLINE ANB FALL hair, which falls each year and is renewed, is coarsely manufactured into the gar­ments, the furniture and the tents, of the Bedoweens. In the rainy seasons theyconsume the rare and insufficient herbage of the desert: during the heats of sum­mer and the scarcity of winter, they remove their encampments to the sea-coast,the hills of Yemen, or the neighbourhood of the Euphrates, and have often ex­torted the dangerous license' of visiting the banks of the Nile, and the villages ofSyria and Palestine. The life of a wandering Arab is a life of danger and distress;and though sometimes, by rapine or exchange, he may appropriate the fruits ofindustry, a private citizen in Europe is in the possession of more solid and pleasingluxury, than the proudest emir, who marches in the field at the head of ten thou­sand horse. Yet an essential difference may be found between the hordes of Scythia and theArabian tribes, since many of the latter were collected into towns, and employedin the labours of trade and agriculture. A part of their time and industry wasstill devoted to the management of their cattle: they mingled, in peace and war,with their brethren of the desert; and the Bedoweens derived from their usefulintercourse, some supply of their wants, and some rudiments of art and know­ledge. A mong the forty-two cities of Arabia, (1) enumerated by Abulfeda, the mostancient and populous were situate in the hafifty Yemen; the towers of Saana,(2)and the marvellous reservoir of Merab,(3) were constructed by the kings of theHomerites; but their profane lustre was eclipsed by the prophetic glories of Me-dina(4) and Mf.cca,(5) near the Red Sea, and at the distance from each other oftwo hundred and seventy miles. The last of these holy places was known to theGreeks under the name of Macoraba; and the termination of the word is expres­sive of its greatness, which has not indeed, in the most flourishing period, exceed­ed the size and populousness of Marseilles. Some latent motive, perhaps of su­perstition, must have impelled the founders, in the choice of a most unpro­mising situation. They erected their habitations of mud or stone, in a plain abouttwo miles long, and one mile broad, at the foot of three barren mountains: the soilis a rock, the water, even of the holy well of Zemzem, is bitter or brackish; thepastures are remote from the city: and grapes are transported above seventy milesfrom the gardens of Tayef, The fame and spirit of the Koreishites, who reignedin Mecca, were conspicuous among the Arabian tribes; but their ungrateful soilrefused the labours of agriculture, and their position was favourable to the enter­prises of trade. By the sea-port of Gedda, at the distance only of forty miles, theymaintained an easy correspondence with Abyssinia; and that Christian kingdomafforded the first refuge to the disciples of Mahomet. The treasures of Africawere conveyed over the peninsula to Gerrha or Katiff, in the province of Bahrein,a city built, as it is said, of rock salt, by the Chaldean exiles:(6) and from thence,with the native pearls of the Persian gulf, they were floated on rafts to the mouthof the Euphrates. Mecca is placed almost at an equal distance, a month's jour­ney, between Yemen on the right, and Syria on-the left hand. The former wasthe winter, the latter the summer, stations of her caravans; and their seasonablearrival relieved the ships of India from their tedious and troublesome navigationof the Red Sea. In the markets of Saana and Merab, in the harbours of Oman the camel; bat the diet of Mecca, and Medina, was already more luxurious. (Gagnier, Vie de Mabomet, torn. iii. p. 404.) (1) Yet Marcian of Heraclea fin Periplo, p. 16. in torn. i. Hudson, Minor. Geograph.) reckons one hundredand sixty-four towns in Arabia Felix. The size of the towns might be small—the faith of the writer might belarge. (2) It is compared by Abulfeda (in Hudson, torn. iii. p. S4.) to Damascus, and is still the residence of the Imanof Yemen. (Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. i. p. 331—342.) Saana is twenty-four parasangs from Dasar, (Abulfeda,p. 51.) and sixty-eight from Aden. (p. 53.) (3) Pocock, Specimen, p. 57. Geograph. Nubiensis, p. 52. Moriaba, or Merab, six miles in circumferencewas destroyed by the legions of Augustus, (Plin. Hist. Nat. 6. 32.) and had not revived in the fourteenth cen­tury. (Abulfed. D-script. Arab. p. 58.) (4) The name of city, Medina, was appropriated x«t> ile-/x«, to Yatreb, (the Latrippa of the GreeksJ tkeseat of the prophet. The distances from Medina are reckoned by Abulfeda in stations, or days'journey of acaravan: (p. 15.) to Bahrein, fifteen; to Bassora. eighteen: to Cusah, twenty; to Damascus or Palestine, twen­ty; to Cairo, twenty-five; to Mecca, ten; from Mecca to Saana, (p. 52.) or Aden, thirty; to Cairo, thirty-onedays, or four hundred and twelve hours; (Shaw's Travels, p. 477.) which, according to the estimate of d'An-ville, (Misures Itineraires, p. 90.) allows about twenty-five English miles for a day's journey. From the landof frankincense (Hadramant. in Yemen, between Aden and Cape Fartasch) to Gaza, jn Syria, Pliny (Hist.Nat. 12. 32.) compiit s sixty-five mansions of camels. These measu res may assist fancy and elucidate tacts. (5) Our notions of M -cca mnst be drawn from the Arabians. (d'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 368—371. Pocock, Specimen, p. 125—128. Abulfeda, p. 11—40.) As no unbeliever is permitted to enter the city,our travellers are silent; and the short hints of Thevenot, (Voyages du Lavant, part 1. p. 408.) are taken fromthe suspicious mouth of an African renegado. Some Persians counted six thousand houses. (Cbardin, torn. iv. p. 167.) ' (6) Strabo, lib.xvi. p. 1110. Sec one of these salt-houses near Baswra, in d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 6­