OCR Output 14 ESSAY ON THE 35, Non modo libertas, etiam libido impunita ; Add. III., 19; XVI.,29; Hist. II., 27. Hence, without reason, Lipsius has urged the in­sertion of sed in Dial. 8. Nec hoc Mis alterius ter mille sestertiumpraestat; ipsa eloquentia, evidently like Agr. 37. Some MSS. alsoomit sec? in G. 10, Non solum apud plebem sed apud proceres, apudsacerdotes. Of relative conjunctions ut is sometimes omitted by asyndeton, andnot by ellipsis. For, in Ann. III., 10, Petitum est, cognitionem re-ciperet, is not properly an ellipsis. And the same construction is'found in many other passages. 8. At this day, indeed, when the science of grammar has begun tobe so much improved, no one will call such examples ellipses. 1now pass to ellipses proper. Tacitus omits auxiliary verbs almost without any distinction oftense or mode. A. 16, Ac velut pacti; ibid. 1, ni incursaturus, sciJessem. Add. Hist. II., 42 ; Hist. II., 76, quod inchoaturi, scil. surd,where the editions have inchoatur. The following may justly beconsidered somewhat harsh; Hist. IV., 7, Satis Marcello (sit) quodNerdnem in exitium tot innocentium impulerit. Hist. IV., 55, So-cius (esse) jactabat. He is also accustomed to omit many other words, and the moregeneral the signification of each, the more frequently it is omitted, aswords of doing. Hist. L, 36, Omnia servilitor pro dominatione.Thus must be explained without correction, .Sgr. 27, At Brittanninon virtute sed occasione et arte ducis (factum esse) rati; coll. Hist.II., 19. Numberless ellipses of this kind might be mentioned ofwords of speaking, thinking, fearing, and going, not entirely pecu­liar to Tacitus, since Cicero also has a similar usage, e. g., N. D. II.,4, Augures rem ad senatum, (tulerunt) ; senatus ut abdicarent con-sules (decrevit) ; abdicarunt. There are many more in his lettersto Atticus which exhibit even some appearance of haste. Where­fore, I do not understand why any one should wish to change, A. 9,Nullam ultra potestatis personam, scil. agebat. Much less hasErnesti rightly forced agere into c. 19, Nihil per libertos servosquepublicae rei. I pass by other common ellipses, as, of causa and potius. Onethat is rare has escaped the notice of commentators, in Hist. III., 10,Et ut proditionis (scil. reum) ira militum in Flavianum incubuit. 9. Brachylogy (Ppaxv^oyta) resembles ellipsis very closely. In el­lipsis, words must be supplied evidently from some external source ;these which are omitted through brachylogy are implied in the ad­joining words, and must be supplied from what either precedes orfollows. Of this figure there are three kinds. The first is when the