OCR Output 54 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. in spite of all the open attacks and secret machinationswhich his neighbours and the Romans directed against him,159. at his death (about 595) left his kingdom in undiminished138. power. His brother Attalus II. Philadelphus (+616), withRoman aid, repelled the attempt of Pharnaces king ofPontus to seize the guardianship of Eumenes' son whowas a minor, and reigned in. the room of his nephew, likeAntigonus Doson, as guardian for life. Adroit, able, pliant,a genuine Attalid, he had the art to convince the suspicioussenate that the apprehensions which it had formerly cherishedwere baseless. The anti-Roman party accused him ofapplying himself to keep the land for the Romans, and ofacquiescing in every insult and exaction at their hands; but,sure of Roman protection, he was able to interfere decisivelyin the disputes as to the succession in Syria, Cappadocia,and Bithynia. Even in the dangerous Bithynian war, which182-149. king Prusias II., surnamed the Hunter (572?-605), aruler who combined in his own person all the vices ofbarbarism and of civilization, began against him, Romanintervention saved him—although not until he had beenhimself besieged in his capital, and a first warning given bythe Romans had remained unattended to and had even been156-154. scoffed at by Prusias (598-600). But, when his ward138-133. Attalus III. Philometor ascended the throne (616-621),the peaceful and moderate rule of the citizen kings wasreplaced by the tyranny of an Asiatic sultan. The new king 164-163. 1G4. the 34th year of Eumenes' reign on the 7th day before the end of Gorpiieus,and therefore in 590-1 U. C, offers to the priest military aid in order towrest from the Pesongians (not otherwise known) a holy place occupied hy them;the following, likewise from Eumenes, exhibits the king as a party in the feudbetween the priest of Pess'nus and his brother Aiorix. Beyond doubt both actsof Eumenes were included among those which were reported at Rome in 590et seq. as attempts on his part to interfere further in Gallic affairs, and to sup­port his partisans in that quarter (Polyb. xxxi. 6, 9; xxxii. 3,5). On the otherhand it is plain from one of the letters of his successor Attalus, that the timeshad changed and his wishes had lowered their tone. The priest Attis appealsto have at a conference at Apamea obtained once more from Attalus the pro­mise of armed assistance; but afterwards the king writes to him that in astate council held for the purpose, at which Atheuaeus (certainly the knownbrother of the king), Sosander, Menogenes, Chlorus, and other relatives(avayicaioi) had been present, after long hesitation the majority had at lengthacceded to the opinion of Chlorus that nothing should be done without pre­viously consulting the Romans; for, even if success were obtained, they wouldexpose themselves to its forfeiture and to the evil suspicion " which they had"erished against his brother" (Eumenes II.).