OCR Output 300 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. formerly called Messenia; but the name given it by theLacedaemonians is Coryphasium. The others replied, "There" are many barren capes in Peloponnesus, which those may" secure who have a mind to plunge the commonwealth into" needless expenses." This place however seemed to him tobe better marked out for this purpose than any other, asbeing possessed of a harbour ; and as the Messenians, whoformerly bore some relation to it, and still used the same dia­lect with the Lacedaemonians, might from hence give themgreat annoyance, and at the same time effectually keep pos­session of it. But when neither the commanders nor sol­diers, nor the inferior officers*, to whom he afterwards com­municated his project, would be brought to a compliance, hequietly let it drop till the mere love of employment, duringthe idleness of their suspended voyage, seditiously inclinedthe private soldiers to compass it with a wall. They tookthe work in hand, and plied it briskly. Tools they had nonefor hewing and fitting the stones ; but picked out and carriedsuch as they judged most proper for the work, and laid themone upon another as compactly as they could. The mud, thatwas any where requisite, for want of vessels they carried on.their shoulders, bending forwards as much as possible that itmight have room to stick on, and holding it up with bothhands clasped fast behind that it might not slide down. Theyspared no pains to prevent the Lacedaemonians, and to putthe place in a proper posture of defence, before they couldcome to their disturbance. For the largest part of it was sowell fortified by nature, that it stood in no need of the de­fence of art. • The word in the original is Taxiarchi. They seem to be nearly thesame with Captains of a Company, in the modern stile, as their commandwas over aboutlone hundred men. Taxiarcht were also officers of a higherclass, in number ten, every Athenian tribe appointing one, whose businessit was to marshal the armies, to order the inarches and encampments, totake care of provisions, and to punish military offences. But the formerseem to be the ajji;ers to whom Demosthenes applied himself in the pre •' sent instance.