OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 269 pride or humanity, whether he consulted the sen- chap.timents of his birth, or the duties of his situation, was'equally inclined to promote a salutary measure, whichwould terminate the calamities of Persia, and securethe triumph of Rome. He was astonished by theinflexible firmness of a hero, who remembered, mostunfortunately for himself, and for his country, thatAlexander had uniformly rejected the propositionsof Darius. But as Julian was sensible that the hopeof a safe and honourable peace might cool the ardourof his troops, he earnestly requested that Hormisdaswould privately dismiss the minister of Sapor, andconceal this dangerous temptation from the know­ledge of the camp *. . The honour, as well as interest, of Julian, forbade He burnshim to consume his time under the impregnable walls Ws fleet'of Ctesiphon; and as often as he defied the Barba­rians, who defended the city, to meet him on the openplain, they prudently replied, that if he desired toexercise his valour, he might seek the army of theGreat King. He felt the insult, and he accepted theadvice. Instead of confining his servile march tothe banks of the Euphrates and Tigris, he resolvedto imitate the adventurous spirit of Alexander, and <boldly to advance into the inland provinces, till heforced his rival to contend with him, perhaps in theplains of Arbela, for the empire of Asia. The mag­nanimity of Julian was applauded and betrayed, bythe arts of a noble Persian, who, in the cause of hiscountry, had generously submitted to act a part fullof danger, of falsehood, and of shame t. With a train * Libanius, Orat. Parent. c. 130. p. 354. c. 139. p. 361. Socrates, l . iii"c. 21. The ecclesiastical historian imputes the refusal of peace to the advice ofMaximus. Such advice was unworthy of a philosopher; but the philosopherwas likewise a magician, who flattered the hopes and passions of his master. f The arts of this new Zopyrus (Greg. Nazianzen, Orat , iv. p. 115, 116.),may derive some credit from the testimony of two abbreviators (Sextus Rufusand Victor), and the casual hints of Libanius (Orat , Parent. c. 134. p. 357,),and Ammianus (xxiv. 7.). The course of genuine history is interrupted by amost unseasonable chasm in the text of Ammianus.