OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. iM9 stantinople, leaving an only son, the issue of a plebeian marriage. At the age oftwelve years, the royal birth of Theophobus was revealed, and his merit was notunworthy of his birth. He was educated in the Byzantine palace, a Christian anda soldier; advanced with rapid steps in the career of fortune and glory; receivedthe hand of the emperor's sister; and was promoted to the command of thirty thou­sand Persians, who, like his father, had fled from the Mahometan conquerors.These troops, doubly infected with mercenary and fanatic vices, were desirous ofrevolting against their benefactor, and erecting the standard of their native king:but the royal Theophobus rejected their offers, disconcerted their schemes, andescaped from their hands to the camp or palace of his royal brother. A generousconfidence might have secured a faithful and able guardian for his wife and his in­fant son, to whom Theophilus, in the flower of his age, was compelled to leavethe inheritance of the empire. But his jealousy was exasperated by envy and dis­ease: he feared the dangerous virtues which might either support or oppress theirinfancy and weakness; and theTJying emperor demanded the head of the Persianprince. With savage delight, he recognised the familiar features of his brother:" Thou art no longer Theophobus," he said: and sinking on his couch, he added,with a faltering voice, " Soon, too soon, I shall be no more Theophilus!" The Russians, who have borrowed from the Greeks the greatest part of theircivil and ecclesiastical policy, preserved, till the last century, a singular institutionin the marriage of the czar. They collected, not the virgins of every rank andof every province, a vain and romantic idea, but the daughters of the principal no­bles, who awaited in the palace the choice of their sovereign. It is affirmed, thata similar method was adopted in the nuptials of Theophilus. With a golden ap­ple in his hand, he slowly walked between two lines of contending beauties: hiseye was detained by the charms of Icasia, and, in the awkwardness of a first de­claration, the prince could only observe, that in this world, women had been thecause of much evil: "And surely, sir," (she pertly replied,) " they have likewisebeen the occasion of much good." This affectation of unseasonable wit displeasedthe imperial lover: he turned aside in disgust; Icasia concealed her mortificationin a convent: and the modest silence of Theodora was rewarded with the goldenle. She deserved the love, but did not escape the severity, of her lord. Frompalace garden he beheld a vessel deeply laden, and steering into the port: onthe discovery that the precious cargo of Syrian luxury was the property of his wife,he condemned the ship to the flames, with a sharp reproach, that her avarice haddegraded the character of an empress into that of a merchant Yet his last chdiceintrusted her with the guardianship of the empire and her son Michael, who wasleft an orphan in the fifth year of his age. The restoration of images, and thefinal extirpation of the Iconoclasts, has endeared her name to the devotion of theGreeks; but in the fervour of religious zeal, Theodora entertained a grateful re­gard for the memory and salvation of her husband. After thirteen years of a pru­dent and frugal administration, she perceived the decline of her influence; but thesecond Irene imitated only the virtues of her predecessor. Instead of conspiringagainst the life or government of her son, she retired, without a struggle, thoughnot without a murmur, to the solitude of private life, deploring the ingratitude,the vices, and the inevitable ruin, of the worthless youth. Among the successors of Nero and Elagabalus, we have not hitherto found theimitation of their vices, the character of a Roman prince who considered pleasureas the object of life, and virtue as the enemy of pleasure. Whatever might havebeen the maternal care of Theodora in the education of Michael III., her unfor­tunate son was a king before he was a man. If the ambitious mother laboured tocheck the progress of reason, she could not cool the ebullition of passion; andher selfish policy was justly repaid by the contempt and ingratitude of the head­strong youth. At the age of eighteen, he rejected her authority, without feelinghis own incapacity to govern the empire and himself. With 1 heodora, all gra­vity and wisdom retired from the court: and their place was supplied by the al­ternate dominion of vice and folly; and it was impossible, without forfeiting thepublic esteem, to acquire or preserve the favour of the emperor. The millionsof gold and silver which had been accumulated for the service of the state, werelavished on the vilest of men, who flattered his passions and shared his pleasures;and in a reign of thirteen years, the richest of sovereigns was compelled to stripthe palace ahd the Churches of their precious furniture. Like Nero, he delightedin the amusements of the theatre, and sighed to be surpassed in the accomplish­ments in which he should have blushed to excel. Yet the studies of Nero in mu-Vol. III. 32