OCR Output 4t2 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK V. to put many boys at th-e same time nnder the care ofone master; a practice among the Greeks at.this day.The master who hail the greatest character for erudition,as is generally the case, had the charge of the youth ofgreatest distinction. This man, in time of peace, usual­ly carried his pupils out before the city, to play aud ex­ercise themselves. Nor during this war did he discon­tinue it, sometimes carrying them a little, and sometimesa greater way from the city. Eut, at last, having foundhis opportunity, he decoyed them by play and enter­taining tales, farther from the gates than usual; first tothe Roman out-posts, then to the camp, till at last helanded them. quite at Camillas' tent. There he crownedhis villainous action with as villainous a speech, viz. thathe- now delivered Falerii into the hands of the Romans,putting these young gentlemen under his power, whosefathers had the principal sway in the city. When Camillas had heard the scoundrel to an end,he replied, ' Execrable wretch, thou dost not approacheither a general, or a people, with thy impious pre­sent, like thyself. With the Falisci, we have indeedno express-and formal alliance ; but that which naturehath established between all men, both does and shaltsubsist between us. War has its rights, and so haspeace, and we have learned to make it with no lessjustice than valour. We are in arms, it is true, butnot against that age, which is spared even in citiestaken by storm, but against men, armed likeourselves;and these too, who without any injury or provocationfrom us, attacked the Roman camp at Veii: them*to the utmost of thy power, thou hast exceeded, by acrime of an extraordinary nature. But, as for me, Ishall conquer, as at Veii, by Roman arts, by valour,works, and arms.' The traitor was then stripped, his hands tied behindhis back, and then delivered up to his pupils, who werefurnished with rods, to whip him all the way to the city.This spectacle brought prodigious crowds of people,when the magistrates convened the senate, to deliberateabout an affair that seemed so extraordinary. So greata revolution in their sentiments did this circumstanceeffect, that they who before had been so inflamed withhatred and resentment, that they would have preferred