OCR Output 404 NAUSTALO. KAXOS. foundation of Aemona, at a distance of only 15miles from Nauportus, the latter place lost its for­mer importance and decayed. During the insur­rection of the Pannonian legions after the death ofAugustus, the town was plundered and destroyed.(Tac. L c.) The place is now called Ober-Lay-bach; its Itoman name Nauportus (from navis andporto) w.-is connected with the story of the Argo­nauts, who were believed on their return to havesailed up the Ister to thin place, and thence to havecarried their ships on their shoulders across theAlps to the Adriatic [L. S.J NAI'STALO. a place on the south coast of Gallia,west of the Khodanus. mentioned in the Ora Mari-titttn of Aviemis (v. 613) — "Turn M:insa vicus, oppidumque NaustaloEt urbs.wThe name Naustalo looks like Greek, and if it isgenuine, it may be the name of some Greek settle­ment along this coast. Nothing can be determinedas to the site of Naustalo further than what Ukertrays (Go/fen, p. 412): it is somewhere between Cttttai.'d the Rhtmt. [G. L.] NAUSTATHMUS (NawTatyioj). a port-townon the Kuaine, in the western part of Pont us, on asalt lake connected with the sea, and 90 stadia tothe east of the river Halys. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 16;Marcian. Heracl. p. 74; Anonym. PeripL p. 9;7'ab. Peut.f where it is erroneously called Nautag-mus.) The Peri plus of the Anonymus places itonly -10 stadia east of the mouth of the Halys.Comp Hamilton (Researches, i. p. 295), who hasidentified the salt lake with the modern JIamamliOhiettlf but no remains of Naustathmus have beenfound. [L. S.] NAUSTATHMUS (NavtrraOnos), an anchorageon the coast of Cyrenaica, 100 stadia from Apollonia.(Scylax, p. 45; Stndiatm. § 56; Strab. xvii. p. 838;l'tol iv. 4. § 5; Pomp. Mela, i. 8. § 2.) It isidentified with EUtlilAl, which Bcechey (Krped, tothe .\. Coast of Africa, p. 479) describes as a pointforming a bay in which large ships might find shel­ter. Tl»e remains which have been found thereindicate an ancient Mte. (Comp. Pacho, Voyage, p.144 Barth, Wanderungen, pp. 461, 495; Thrige,Res Cyrenens, p 103.). [E. B. J.] NAUTACA (Nai/ro*a, Arrian, Anab. Hi. 28,iv. 18), a town of So^diana, in the neighbourhood ofthe Ox us (Jihon), on its eastern bank. It has beenconjectured by Professor Wilson that it may be thesame as S'aksheb. (Arinna, p. 165.) [V.] NAXOS or NAXUS(No£ot: A'w.Ndfcot: Capodi Schiso), an ancient city of Sicily, on the E. coastof the Uland between Catana and Messana. It wassituate.! on a low point of land at the mouth of theriver Acp-Mnes (Alcantara), and at the foot of thehill on which was afterwards built the city of Tau-romenium. All ancient writers agree in represent­ing Naxos as the most ancient of all the Greekcolonies in Sicily; it was founded the year beforeSyracuse, or B.C. 735, by a body of colonists fromChain* in Euboea, with whom there was mingled,according to Ephorus, a certain number of Ionians.The same writer represented Theories, or Thucles,the leader of the colony and founder of the rity, asan Athenian by birth; but Thucydides takes nonotice of this, and describes the city as a purelyChalcidic colony; and it seems certain that in latertimes it was generally so regarded. (Thuc. vi. 3;Ephor. ap. Strab. vl p. 267; Scymo. Ch. 270—277;Dual. xir. 88. Concerning the date of its found- ation see Clinton, F. TJ. vol. I p. 164; Eusek Chrm.ad 01. 11. 1.) The memory of Naxos as the nr.licst of all the Greek settlements in Sicily was pre­served by the dedication of an altar outside tottown to Apollo Archegetes, the divine patron underwhose authority the colony had sailed; and it was acustom (still retained long after the deslnKti-m >iNaxos itself) that all Theori or envoys prrceniinfon sacred missions to Greece, or retuniinr, tr-xthence to Sicily, should offer sacrifice on this ahar.(Thuc. i c.; Appian. B. C. v. 109.) It is arajralarthat none of the writers above cited allude to ti*origin of the name of Nsxus; but there can be httltdoubt that this was derived, as stated by HriUniros(ap. Strph. B. s. r. XaAxtr), from the j.-merrtamong the original settlers of a body of otauustifrom the island of that name. The new colony must have been speedily j"iwdby fresh settlers from Greece, as within six yearnafter its first establishment the ChalcUiam at S*i •were able to send out a fresh colony, which foundVjthe city of Leontini, u.c. 730; and thin was speedilyfollowed by that of Catana. Theoclos hini»elf be­came the Oekist, or recognised founder, of the fvmrr,and Euarchus, probably a Chalcidic citi/en, of thelatter. (Thuc I c; Scymn. Ch. 283—286; Strnh.vi. p. 268.) Strabo and Scymnus Chins both repre­sent /ancle also as a colony from Naxos, bat do allu­sion to this is found in Thucydides. But, as it wascertainly a Chalcidic colony, it is probable that kc*settlers from Naxos joined those fr<»m the parrelcountry. (Strab. vi. p. 268; Scymn. Ch. 286; Thatvi. 4.) Callipolis also, a city of uncertain site, ai-4which ceased to exist at an early period, was a co­lony of Naxos. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Scymn. Ch. If)But notwithstanding these evidences of its early jtv-sperity, we have very little information as to tbtearly history of Naxos; and the first facta trans­mitted to us concerning it relate to disaster* thai itsustained. Thus Herodotus tells us that it was one efthe cities which was besieged and taken by Hipen*crates. despot of Gela, about B.C. 498—491 (Umd.vii. 154); and his expressions wonld lead us to inferthat it was reduced by him under peTmawr.t :n'-jeclion. It appears to have afterwards surtv-*n*lTpassed under the authority of Grl<»n of Syrs*-j«r,and his brother Hieron, as we find it subjeit u t^•latter in b. c. 476. At that time Hieron, with a viewto strengthen his own power, removed the inhabitantsof Naxns at the same time with those of Catana. andsettled them together at Leontini, while be rrp**<pMthe two cities with fresh colonists from other >ja*r-ters (Diod. xi. 49). The name of Naxos is not spe­cifically mentioned during the revolutions that ro-sued in Sicily after the death of Hieron; hot thereseems no doubt that the city was restored to *.t*old Chalcidic citizens at the same time as tbr»* irireinstated at Catana, B.C. 461 (Id. xi. 76); andhence we find, during the ea«iing |ierv<d, the th*«*Chalcidic cities, Naxos. Leontini, and Catana, fees*»ralty united by the bonds of amity, and maintain; nfa close alliance, as opposed to Syracuse and the «4a*arDoric cities of Sicily. (Id. xiii. t*6. xir. 14; Tame.iu. 86, W. 25.) Thus, in B.C. 4S7, when tbe> Imm-tini were hard pressed by their neichhrmrv «-/ Sir*.cuse, their Chalcidic brethren afforded thrai ail ibaaskance in their power (Thuc- iii. 86): «i»! w>*nthe first Athenian expedition arrived in Sirtfy M*»*rrLaches and Charoeade% the Naxians hnme4snt*ry1 joined their alliance. With them, an weU as) vnhI the Rhegians ou the opposite aide of the strains * *