OCR Output S33 ROMA. ROMA. known. Its situation near the place assigned isdetermined by the following passage in Seneca'sApocolocyntotis: "Injicit illi (Claudio) manumTalthybius ileorum nuntius et trahit capite ohvohito,ne qaift ram possit agnoscere, per Campum Martian);et inter Tlberim ct Viam Tcctam desccudit ad in­feros '* (p. 389, Bip.). If this descent to the infernalresions was at the subterranean altar of Pluto andProserpine before mentioned, it would i"> far to fixthe situation of the Tarentum in the northern partof the Campus; but this, thounh probable, is notcertain. The Via Tecta is mentioned once or twiceby Martial (iii. 5, viii. 75). Among the other monuments relating to Augustusin the Campus Mart his, was an Aha Pacts, dedi­cated to Augustus on his return from Germany,B.C. 13. (Dion Cass. liv. 25; Of. Fttst. iii. 882*;Fast. J'rdcit. III. Kal Feb.) The Aha Fort is aeRbdUCIS was another similar altar (Dion Cass. liv.10); but there is nothing to prove that it was on theCampus Martius. In the reign of Augustus, Statilius Taurus erectedan A.MrumiKATi:!-: on the Campus, — the firstbuilt of stone at Home ; but its situation cannot bedetermined. (Dion Cass. li. 23; Suet. Aug. 2'J.) A long interval ensued after the reign of Augustusbefore any new public buildings were erected on theCampus Martins. Caligula began, indeed, a largeamphitheatre near the Septa; but Cladius caused itto be pulled down. Nero erected, close to the bathsof Agrippa, the Thermae Nerohiamas, whichseem to have been sub>e>]nently enlarged by Alex­ander Severus, and to have obtained the name ofTHERMAE Alkxa.nkhinak. The damage occa­sioned in this district by the lire of Nero cannot bestated, since all that we certainly know is that theamphitheatre of Statilius Taurus was destroyed in it(Dion Cass. lxii. 18). The fire under Titus wasconsiderably more destructive in this quarter (Id.lxvi. 24); but the damage appears to have beenmade good by Domitian. Among the buildings re­stored by him on this occasion we find the Tkmtlksof Isis and Shu apis mentioned; but we have noaccounts respecting their foundation. Their sitemay, however, be fixed between the Septa Julia andthe baths of Agrippa, near the modern church of S.Maria sopra Minerva, Thus Juvenal (vi. 527):— "A Meroe portabit aquas, ut spargat in aedemIsidis, antiquo quae proxima surgit Ovili."' (Cf. Joseph. B.Jtul. vii. 5. § 4.) It was near the spotindicated that the celebrated group of the Nile wasdiscovered which now adorns the Vatican (liraun,Mimuvis of Home, p. 100), together witli severalother Egyptian objects (Flaminio Vacea, Mnn. nos.26, 27; Bartoli, Mttn. no. 112, &c). AlexanderSeverus devoted much attention to these temples(Lampr. A. Sec. 26), and they must have existed tilla late period, since they are enumerated in the Xotitia. Domitian also restored a temple of Minervawhich stood near the same spot, the MlHERYAChalciimca of Cassiodorus (Chron. sub J)omtt.)and of the Notitia. (Montf. Vfar. ItaL p.292). It must have been the temple originallyfounded by Pompey in commemoration of his easternvictories, the inscription on which is recorded byPliny (th. 27). It was from this temple that thechurch of & Maria just mentioned derived its epithetof sopra MintTra; and it seems to have been nearthis spot that the celebrated statue of the (iiu^tinianiPallas, now in the Bracch Xwro of the Vatican, was discovered ; though according to other, tot lasprobable, accounts, it was found in th* circular »-ple near the Porta Magyior? (Braun. ifwramf kcp. 154). Some topographers assume that tbet»fi»built by Pompey was a different one from the ala*\with the barbarous title of Minerva CucpenM, betin the same neighbourhood; which does not asmprobable (Can'ma, /wlicaz. p. 405). Domitian also founded in the Campos MartxaaaODEtm and n Stadium (Suet. Dor*. 5), which vftbe described in the proper sections. The virmiiiof the former cannot be detennined. The StadRflglin all probability, occupied the site of tbe /*iaaaiJMrona, the form of which shows that it most kaa»been a circus. The nam* of A'nrowu is a camyftaiof in Agone, and important remains of tha Hadam