OCR Output VIA LAURENTINA.VIA PRAENESTINA. 1303 from Some, but it U not clear whether he measuredthe distance by the Vis Latin* or the Labicana (v.p. 237). The actual distance of Ferentinum (con­cerning which there is no doubt) from Rome U 49mile*; and the Compitum Anagninum is correctlyplaced 8 miles nearer the city, which would exactlyagree with the point on the present highroad wheretbe branch to Anagnia still turns off. Both theItinerary and the Tabula place Ad Pictas 15 milesfrom the Compitum Anagninnm, and this distancewoeJd fix it 10 miles from Roboraria,or 26 from Rome,thus agreeing closely with the statement of Strabo.We may, therefore, feel sure that the position aboveassigned to Ad Pictas, a point of importance, as thatwhere the two roads joined, is at least approximatelycorrect. The next stations admit of no doubt, and the dis­tances are correct. It was at tbe Compitum Anag­ninum, 15 miles beyond Ad Pictas, that the ViaPraenestina joined the Latins, which was carriedthence down the valley of the Sacco, nearly inthe line of the present highroad, by Ferentinum andFruaino, both of which still retain their ancientnames, to Fregellanuin (Ctprano) on the Litis,whence it turned S. to Fabrateria Nova (therains of which are still visible at 5. Giovanni inCarieo), on the right bank of the Liris. Here itcrossed that river by a bridge, of which the ruinsare still extant, whence the course of the ancientroad may be traced without difficulty through Aqui-num, Casinum, Teanum, and Cales to Casilinumon the Vulturnus, where it fell into the Via Appia.Portions of the ancient pavement, sepulchres, andother ruins mark the line of the ancient way through-oat the latter part of its course. At a stationgiven in the Tabula under the name of Ad Flexum(9 miles from Casinum) a branch road turned offto Venafrum, whence it ascended the valley oftbe Vulturous to Aesemis, and thence into theheart of Samninm. The Antonine Itinerary repre­sents the Via Latina as following this cross-road,and making a bend round by Venafrum, but therecan be no doabt that tbe regular highroad proceededdirect to Teanum. Tbe remains of the ancient roadmay be distinctly traced, proceeding from Teanumnearly due N. through Cajantllo and Tora to &1'ietro in Fine, which was probably the site of thestation Ad Flexum. This would be 18 miles fromTesuunn. The Tabula gives the distance as viiL,for which there is no doubt we should read xviii. Tbe branch of the Via Latina, already alluded to,which was carried to Beneventuin, quitted tbe mainrrssd at Teanum, crossed the Vulturnus to Allifae,and thence was carried up the valley of the Calorby Telesia to Beneventum. The distances are thusriven in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 304):— Teanum to Allifae (Ali/e) - - xvii. M P.Telesia (7>fcw) - - xxv.Beneventum - - xvii.(Tbe first part of the Via Latina from Rome tothe valley of the Liris is examined and discussed iniletail by Westphsl, Horn. Kamp. pp. "8—97; andNibby, Vie degli Aniichi, pp. 110—119.) I E.H.B.]VIA LAURENTINA [Laukkntum.JVIA NOMEXTANA [Nomentum.]VIA OSTIENSIS, was, as its name imports, tbe■oad leading from Rome to Ostia, which must na-arally have been an extremely frequented route whenhe citj was at the height of its prosperity. It fol-•need in its general direction the left hank of the[ iber, bat cutting off the more considerable bends and windings of the river. It issued from the PortaOstiensis, now called the Porta S. Paolo, from thecelebrated basilica of St. Paul, about I .J mile out­side the gate, and situated on the line of the ancientroad. Three miles from Rome it passed through avillage, or suburb, known as the Vicus Alexandri(Ammian. xvii. 4. § 14): it was at this point thatthe Via Laureatina struck off direct to Laurentum,16 miles distant from Rome [ Laurentum]; whilethe Via Ostiensis, turning a little to the right, pur­sued thenceforth nearly a straight course all the wayto Ostia. On this line, 11 miles from Rome, is theOsteria di Mala f'ede, where a mad branches off toPordgliano, which undoubtedly follows the sameline as that mentioned by the younger Pliny, bywhich bis Lauren tine villa could be approached asconveniently as by tbe Via Lanrentina. (Plin. Hp. ii. 17.) Five miles farther the highroad reachedOstia, which was 16 miles from Rome. (/tin. Ant.p. 301.) [Ostia]. [E. H. B.] VIA POP1LIA. [Vu Appia, No, 5.]VIA PORTUENSIS, was the road that led fromRome to the Portus Trajani, or the new port of thecity constructed under the Empire on the right bankof the Tiber. [Ostia.] Tbe name could not, of course,have come into use until after tbe construction of thisgreat artificial port to replace the natural harbour ofOstia, and is only found in the enumeration of theViae in the Curinsutn Urbis and Notilia (pp. 28,29,ed. Preller). But tbe line of tbe road itself maystill be traced without difficulty. It issued from thePorta Portnensts, in tbe walls of Aurelian, and fol­lowed, with little deviation, the right bank of theTiber, only cntting off the minor windings of thatriver. The Antonine Itinerary places tbe city of Portus19 miles from Rome (p. 300); but this is certainly amistake, the real distance being just about the sameas that of Ostia, or 16 miles. (Nibby, Dintomi, vol. iii. p. 624.) From Portus a road was carried along thecoast by Kregenae (9 miles) to Alsium (9 miles),where it joined the Via Auheua. (/fin. Ant.p. 300.) [K. H. B.] VIA POSTUMIA, was, as we leam from an in­scription (Orell. /riser. 3121), the proper name ofthe road that crossed the Apennines direct from Der-tona to Genua, But it appears to have fallen intodisuse; at least we do not find it mentioned by anyancient writer, and the road itself is included by theItineraries under the general name of the Via Au.re] is. It has therefore been considered more conve­nient to describe it in thst article. [K. M. B.] VIA PRAENESTINA (i rUxuwoTirn. Mis,Strab.), was tbe name of one of the highroads thatissued from tbe Porta Esqoilina at Rome, and led (asits name implies) direct to Praeneste. The periodof its construction is unknown; but it is evident thatthere must have been from a very early period ahighway, or line of communication from Rome toPraeneste, long before there was a regular pavedroad, such as the Via Praenestina ultimately became.Tbe first part of it indeed, as far as the city of Gabii,13 miles from Rome, was originally known as tbe ViaGamma, a name which is used by Livy in the historyof the early ages of the Republic (Liv. ii. 11), butwould seem to have afterwards fallen into disuse,so that both Strabo and the Itineraries give thename of Via Praenestina to the whole line. (Strab.v. p. 238; /fin. Ant. p. 302.) In tbe latter periodof the Republic, indeed, Gabii had fallen verymuch into decay, while Praeneste was still animportant and flourishing town, which will suf­ 4 o 4