OCR Output CHAP. L. 201 knowledge. Among the forty-two cities of Arabia,0enumerated by Abulfeda, the most ancient and popu­lous were situate in the happy Yemen: the towers ofSaana,p and the marvellous reservoir of Merabq Wereconstructed by the kings of the Homerites; but theirprofane lustre was eclipsed by the propheticglories of MEDINA' and MECCA,*near the Redsea, and at the distance from each other of two hundredand seventy miles. The last of these holy places wasknown to the Greeks under the name of Macoraba; andthe termination of the word is expressive of its greatness,which has not indeed, in the most flourishing period, ex­ceeded the size and populousness of Marseilles. Some la­tent motive, perhaps of superstition, must have impelledthe founders, in the choice of amostunpromisingsituation.They erected their habitations of mud or stone, in a plainabout two miles long and one mile broad, at the foot ofthree barren mountains: the soil is a rock, the water, evenof the holy well of Zemzem, is bitter or brackish; thepastures are remote from the city; and grapes are trans- - Yet Marcian of Heraclea (in Periplo, p. 16. in torn. 1. Hudson, Minor. Geo-graph.) reckons one hundred and sixty-four towns in Arabia Felix. The size of the.towns might be small—the faith of the writer might be large. i' It is compared by Abulfeda (in Hudson, torn. 3. p. 54.) to Damascus, and isstill the residence of the Iman of Yemen. (Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. 1. p. 331—342.) Saana is twenty-four parasangs from Dasar, (Abulfeda, p. 51.) and sixty-eight from Aden. (p. 53.) 1 Pocock, Specimen, p. 57. Geograph. Nubiensis, p. 52. Moriaba, or Merab,six miles in circumference, was destroyed by the legions of Augustus, (Plin. Hist.Nat. 6 32.) and had not revived in the fourteenth century. (Abulfed. Descript.Arab. p. 58.) r The name of city, Medina, was appropriated xar' tf t,xn, to Yatreb (the Latrippaof the Greeks), the seat of the prophet. The distances of Medina are reckoned byAbulfeda in stations, or days'journey of a caravan: (p. 15.) to Bahrein, fifteen; toBassora, eighteen; to Cusah, twenty; to Damascus or Palestine, twenty; to Cairo,'twenty-five; to Mecca, ten; from Mecca to Saana, (p. 52.) or Aden, thirty; toCairo, thirty-one days, or four hundred and twelve hours; (Shaw's Travels, p. 477.)which, according to the estimate of d'Anville, (Mesures Itineraires, p. 99.) allowsabout twenty-five English miles for a day's journey. From the land of frankincense(Hadramant, in Yemen, between Aden and Cape Fartasch) to Gaza, in Syria, Pliny(Hist. Nat. 12. 32.) computes sixty-five mansions of camels. These measures mayassist fancy and elucidate facts. • Our notions of Mecca must be drawn from the Arabians, (d'Herbelot, Biblio-theque Orientate, p. 368—371. Pocock,Specimen, p. 125—128. Abulfeda, p. 11—40) As no unbeliever is permitted to enter the city, our travellers are silent; andthe short hints of Thevenot (Voyages du Levant, part 1. p. 490.) are taken fromthe suspicious mouth of an African renegado. Some Persians counted six thousandhouses. (Chardiu, torn. 4. p. 167.)