OCR Output 202 THE LIFE OF F1AVIUS IOSEPHU3. voluntarily, but only out of fear of the multitude, since, if I'had forbidden him, I should have been stoned by them. -WhenI had therefore permitted this to be done by John, he gainedvast sums of money by this his knavery. 14. But when I had dismissed my fellow-legates, and sentthem back to Jerusalem, I took care to have arms provided, andthe cities fortified. And, when 1 had sent for the most hardyamong the robbers, I saw that it was not in my power to taketheir arms from them ; but I persuaded the multitude to allowthem money as pay, and told them it was better for them togive them a little willingly, rather than to [be forced to] over­look them when they plundered their goods from them. Andwhen I had obliged them to take an oath not to come into thatcountry, unless they were invited to come, or else when theyhad not their pay given them, I dismissed them, and chargedthem neither to make an expedition against the Romans, noragainst those their neighbours that lay round about them ; formy first care was to keep Galilee in peace. So I was willingto have the principal of the Galileans, in all seventy, as hostagesfor their fidelity, but still under the notion of friendship. Ac­cordingly, I made them my friends and companions as I jour­neyed, and set them to judge causes; and with their approba­tion it was that I gave my sentences, while I endeavoured notto mistake what justice required, and to keep my hands clear ofall bribery in these determinations. 15. I was now about the thirtieth year of my age ; in whichtime of life it is a hard thing for any one to escape the calumniesof the envious, although he restrain himself from fulfilling anyunlawful desires, especially where a person is in great authority.Yet did I preserve every woman free from injuries ; and, as towhat presents were offered me, I despised them, as not standingin need of them. Nor indeed would I take those tithes, whichwere due to me as a priest, from those that brought them. Yetdo I confess, that I took part of the spoils of those Syrians whichinhabited the cities that adjoined to us, when I had conqueredthem, and that I sent them to my kindred at Jerusalem; although,when I twice took Sepphoris by force, and Tiberias four times,and Gadara once, and when I had subdued and taken John, who, often laid treacherous snares for me, I did not punish [withdeath] either him or any of the people fore-named, as the pro-gress of this discourse will shew. And on this account, I sup­pose, it was that God *, who is never unacquainted with those that * Our Josephus shews, both here and every where, that he was a most religiousperson' and one that had a deep sense of -od and his providence upon his mind,and ascribed all his numerous and wonderful escapes and preservations, in times*[' i'anger, to God's blessing him, and taking care of him, and this on accountof bis acts of piety, justice, humanity, and charity, to the Jews his brethren.