OCR Output 54 IXGEXA. INTELEXE. Strabo and Pliny; but we have no means of fixingtht extent or limits of their territory, which evi­dently comprised a considerable portion of the sea-coast on each side of their capital city, and probablyextruded uii the YY. till it met tliat of the Intcmchi.It must hare included several minor towns, buttheir capital, of which the name is variously writtenAlbium Ingaunum and Albingaunum, is the onlytown expressly assigned to them by ancient writers.[Ai.HitM Inuacklm.J (Strab. iv. p. 202 ; 1'lin.iii. 5. *. 6.) [E. H. B.] I'NGENA. [Abhiscatui.] INI'CKKUM, a town in Lower Pannonia, in theneighbourhood of which there was a praetorium. orplace of rest for the emperors when they travelled inthroe part*, (/fin. Ant pp. 260, 265.) Some iden­tify it with the modern J'ossega. [L. S.] INOTUS. [Delos.] IXSA'Xl MONTHS (to Matviueva 6>n, Ptol.iiL 3. § 7), a range of mountains in Sardinia, men­tioned by Livy (xxx. 39) in a manner which seemsto imply that they were in the NK. j«irt of theisland; and this is confirmed by Claudian, who(■.peaks of them as rendering the iiurthern part ofSardinia rugged and ravage, a:id the adjoining mm.-,stormy and dangerous to navigators. (Claudian,B. GUd. 513.) Hence, it is evident that the namewatt applied to the lofty and rugged rang'* of moun­tains in the N. and NE. part of the Uland: andwas, doubtless, given to them by Houian navigators,on account of the sudden and frequent storms towhich they gave rise. (Liv. /, c). Ptolemy alsoplaces the MairoVcfa W>tj — a name which is obvi­ously translated from the Ijitin one — in the interiorof the island, aud though he would teem to considerthem as nearer the \V. than the K. coast, the positionwhich lie assigns them may still be referred to thosame range or mass of mountains, which extendsfrom the neighbourhood of Olbia (Terra Sora) onthe K. coast, to that of Cornus on the YV. [Sar-inxtA.] [E.H.U.] I'NSUBRES, a people both in Gallia Transalpinaand Gallia Ci»alpinx IVAnville, on the authority ofLivy (v. 34), plates the Insubres of Gallia Trans­alpina in that part of the territorj of the Aeduiwhere there was a town Mediolaoum, between ForumSegusiannrum [Fiuti'M Skoi'hianorum] and Lug-dunum (Lyon). Thus is the only ground that thereis for supposing that there exited a j«onp!e or apugus in Gallia Transalpina named Insubres. Ofthe Insubrca in Gallia Cisalpina, an account is givenel.-ewhere [Vol. I. p. 936]. [G. L.] INSULA, or l'NSULA ALLO'BROGUM.in GalliaXarbtinethU. Livy (xxi. 31), after describing Han­nibal's jiusisage lit' tin* Khone, says that he directedhis march on the east side towards the inland partsof Gallia. At his fourth encampment be came tothe Insula, "where the rivers Arar and the Kho-danus, bowing down from the Alps by two differentdirections, comprise between them some tract ofcountry, and then unite: it is the level country be­tween them which is called the Insula. The AJlo-broges dwell uear.' One might easily see that theremust be some error in the word Arar; for Hannibalcould not have reached the latitude of Lngdonum(Ayon) in four days from the place where he cmssedthe Khone; and this Is certain, though we do notknow the exact place where he did cross the Khone.Nor, if he had got to the jit net tun of the Arar andIthodanus, could Livy say that he reached a placenear which the Allobrogea dwell; for, if he had marched from the Isara (hire) to the junction ofthe Saune and Khone, he would have passed throughthe country of the" Allobroges. [At.utnRooB>.JNor does the Arar (Oaone) flow from the Alp*,though the Isara docs. Besides this, if Hannibalhad gone so far north as the part between the Sa>meand Klione, he would have gone much further norththan was necessary for his purpose, as Livy describe*it. It is therefore certain, if we look to the contextonly, that we must read "Isara" for " Arar;"' andthere is a reading of one MS., cited by Gronoviua,which shows that Isara may have once been in thetext, and that it has been corrupted. (Walckenaer,Geoff. <fc. vol. i. p. 135.) Livy in this pa»aagecopied Poly bin*, in whoso MSS. (iii. 49) the nameof the river is Scoras or Scaras; a name which theeditors ought to have kept, instead of changing itinto I^aras ('ladpcu), as Bekker and others beforehim have done, though the Lara or Isere is cer­tainly the river. In the latest editions of Ptolemy(ii. 10. § 6) the Isara appears in the farm I?*r("loop); but it is certain that there are great varia­tions in the MSS. of Ptolemy, and in the editions.Walckenaer (vol. i. p. 134) says that the edition <>fUlm of 1482 has Siearns, aud that there is "Si-caros" in the Strassburg editions of 1513, 152u.1522. The editio princeps of 1475 has "Cisur;"and others have " Tisar w and "Tisara." The pro­bable conclusion Ls, that" Isc-ar " is one of tho fonii*of the name, which is as genuine a Celtic form as"Is-ar" or " Isara," the form in Cicero (ad Fan. x.15, Ac). "Isc-ara" may be compared with tlieBritish forms " Isaca" (the £xe), Is*a, and Ischsdis;and Is-ara with the names of the Italian rivers Auaarand Aesis. 1'olybius compares the country in the angle be­tween the Rhone and the Isara (Ittit) to the IMiaof Egypt in extent and furm, except that in the Deltathe sea unites the one side and tho channels of tliestreams which form the two other sides; but hersmountains almost inaccessible form the third side ofthis Insula. He describes it as populous, and a corncountry. The junction of the Isar, as Strabo callsthe river (p. 185), and the Khone, wis, according tohim,opposite the place where the CVrennea approach.near to the banks of the Rhone. The /acre, one of the chief branches of the Rhone,rises in the high Pennine Alps, and flows throughthe valleys of the Alpine region by a very windingcourse past St. Maurice, Moutiers, Conjfaru, J/oni-metttan, where it begins to be navigable, Grtiuibie,the Roman Cularo or Gratianopolis, and joins theIthonc a few miles north of Valencia ( Valence). Itswhole course is estimated at about 160 miles. Han­nibal, after staying a short time in the country aboutthe junction of the Khone and the /*rre, cxKiiinerxcJ,his march over the Alps. It is not material to de­cide whether his whole army crossed over into theInsula or not, or whether he did himself, thoughthe words of Poljbius imply that he did. It bcertain that he marched up the valley of the /avrstowards the Alps; and the way to find out where hecrossed the Alps is by following the valley of theIsere, [G. L.1 INSURA. [Mtlae.] INTKLE'NE ('iKnjAnrff), one of the five pro­vinces W. of the Tigris, ceded, in a, tx 297, byNaraes to Galeriu* and the K*imana, (Prtr. l*atr.Fr. 14, Fratjm. Wit. Oraee. ed. Mil Her; <nM* -n,c. xiii.) St. Martin, in his note to Le Beau (/&i#Kmpire, vol. L p. 380), would read fur Inirlcor,