OCR Output NICAEA. 423 NICAEA. According to toother account (Memnon, ap. PhotCtd. 224. p. 233, ed. Bckker), Nicaea was foundedby men from Nicaea near Thermopylae, who hadserved in the army of Alexander the Great. Thetown was built with great regularity, in the form ofa square, measuring 16 stadia in circumference; ithad four gates, and all its streets intersected oneanother at right angles, so that from a monument inthe centre all the four gates could be seen. (Strab.xii pp. 5*5. &c) This monument stood in the gym­nasium, which was destroyed by fire, but was restoredwith increased magnificence by the younger Pliny(Epitt. x. 48), when he was governor of Bithynia. Soon after the time of Lvsimachus, Xicaea becamea city of great importance, and the kings of Bithynia,whose era begins in b. c. 289 with Zipoetes, oftenresided at Nicaea. It has already been mentionedthat in the time of Strabo it is called the metropolisof Bithynia; an honour which is also assignedto it on some coins, though in later times it wasenjoyed by Nicomedeia. The two cities, in fact,kept up a long and vehement dispute about the pre­cedence, and the 38th oration of Dion Chrysostomuswas expressly composed to settle the dispute. Fromthis oration, it appears that Nicomedeia alone had aright tu the title of metropolis, but both were the firstcities of the country. The younger Pliny makesfrequent mention of Xicaea and its public buildings,which he undertook to restore when governor ofBithynia. (Epist. x. 40, 48, &c) It was thebirthplace of the astronomer Hipparchus and thehiaburtan Dion Cassius. (Suid. s. v. "Imrapxos.)The nnmerous coins of Nicaea which still existattest the interest taken in the city by the emperors,a* well as its attachment to the rulers; many ofthem commemorate great festivals celebrated there inhraoar of gods and emperors, as Olympia, Isthmia,Dionysia, Pythia, Commodia, Severia, Philadelphia,etc Throughout the imperial period, Nicaea re­mained an important place; for its situation was par­ticularly favourable, being only 25 miles distantfrom Prusa (Pliu. v. 32), and 44 from Constanti­nople. (/(.^nt.p.141.) When the last mentioned citybecame the capital of the Eastern Empire, Nicaeadid not lose in importance; for its present walls,which were erected during the last period of theEmpire, enclose a much greater space than thatascribed to the place in the time of Strabo. In thereign of Constantino, A. d. 325, the celebratedCouncil of Nicaea was held there against the Arianheresy, and the prelates there assembled drew upthe creed called the Nicene. Some travellers havebelieved that the council was held in a church stillexisting; bat it has been shown by Prokesch (A'rin-neruuffen, iii. p. 234) that that church was built ata later period, and that the council was probably heldin the now ruined mosque of Orchau. In the courseof the same century, Nicaea suffered much from anearthquake; but it was restored in a. d. 368 by theemperor Valeria. Daring the middle ages it waslor a lung time a strong bulwark of the Greekemperors against the Turks, who did not conquer ituntil the year 1078. During the first crusade, in1097, it was recovered from them by the Christians,but in the peace which was afterwards concluded itwas ceded to the Turks. In the 13th century,when Constantinople was the capital of the Latinempire, Theodore Lascaris made Nicaea the capitalof Western A»ia; in the end, however, it was finallyeooqeered and incorporated with the Ottoman empireby Urchan. Many of its public buildings were tlien destroyed, and the materials used by the conquerorsin erecting their mosques and other edifices. Themodern Isnik is a very poor place, of scarcely morethan 100 houses, while in Pococke's time, there stillexisted about 300. The ancient walls, with theirtowers and gates, are in tolerably good preservation;their circumference is 14,800 feet, being at the basefrom 15 to 20 feet in thickness, and from 30 to 40feet in height; they contain four large and twosmall gates. In most places they are formed ofalternate courses of Itoman tiles and large squareatones, joined by a cement of great thickness. Insome places hare been inserted columns and otherarchitectural fragments, the ruins of more ancientedifices. These walls seem, like those of Constan­tinople, to have been built in the fourth century of ourera. Some of the towers have Greek inscriptions.The ruins of mosques, baths, and houses, dispersedamong the gardens and cornfields, which now occupya great part of the space within the Greek forti­fications, show that the Turkish town, thoughnow so inconsiderable, was once a place of im­portance; but it never was so large as the Greekcity, and it seems to have been almost entirely con­structed of the remains of the Greek Nicaea, thewalls of the ruined mosques and baths being full ofthe fragments of Greek temples and churches. Onthe north-western parts of the town, two molesextend into the lake and form a harbour; but thelake in this part has much retreated, and left amarshy plain. Outside the Walls remnants of anancient aqueduct are seon. (Comp. Leake, AsiaMinor, pp. 10, foil.; Von Prokesch-Osten. Erin-nerungen, iii. pp. 321,foil.; Pococke, Journey in AsiaMinor, iii. pp. 181,foil.; Walpole, Turkey, ii. p. 146;Eckhel, Doctr. Num. i. pp. 423, foil.; Rasche, Lexic.Rei Num. iii. 1. pp. 1374, folL) [L. a] COtN OF NICAEA DJ BrTHYNIA. 2. (Nhram, Arrian, v. 19 ; Strab. xv. p. 698;Curt. ix. 3. 23), a city in the Panjdb, on thebanks of the Hydaspes (or Jelum), built by Alex­ander the Great to commemorate his victory overPoms, who ruled the flat country intermediatebetween that river and the Acesines. It was atNicaea or Bucephalia, which appears to have beenon the opposite bank, that Alexander (according toStrabo, I. c.) built the fleet which Ncarchus subse­quently commanded, the country in the immediateneighbourhood having abundance of wood fit forship-building. No town now exists which can withany probability be identified with it. [V.] NICAEA II. In Europe. I. (Nfieam: Elk. Ni-Ktucor: Niaa, in French Nice), a city on the coast ofLiguria, situated at the foot of the Maritime Alps,near the frontier of Gallia Narbonensis. On thisaccount, and because it was a colony of Massilia, itwas in early times commonly reckoned as belongingto Gaul (Steph. B. s. v.); and this attribution isstill followed by Mela (ii. 5. § 3): but from thetime that the Varus became fixed as the limit ofItaly, Nicaea, which was situated about 4 miles E E 4