OCR Output 286 SIEGE OF THE UPPER CITY. [B. VI. himself against John, when they were at war with oneanother. 2. It was at this time that the commanders of the Idumeansgot together privately, and took counsel about surrenderingup themselves to the Romans. Accordingly, they sent fivemen to Titus, and entreated him to give them his right handfor their security. So Titus thinking that the tyrants wouldyield, if the Idumeans, upon whom a great part of the wardepended, were once withdrawn from them, after some re-luctancy and delay complied with them, and gave them secu­rity for their lives, and sent the five men back. But as theseIdumeans were preparing to march out, Simon perceived it,and immediately slew the five men that had gone to Titus,and took their commanders, and put them in prison, of whomthe most eminent was Jacob, the son of Sosas; but as for themultitude of the Idumeans, who did not at all know what todo, now their commanders were taken from them, he hadthem watched, and secured the walls by a more numerousgarrison. Yet could not that garrison resist those that weredeserting; for although a great number of them were slain,yet were the deserters many more in number. These wereall received by the Romans, because Titus himself grew negli­gent as to his former orders for killing them, and becausethe very soldiers grew weary of killing them, and becausethey hoped to get some money by sparing them; for theyleft only the populace, and sold1 the rest of the multitude,with their wives and children, and every one of them for avery low price, and that because such as were sold were verymany and the buyers very few: and although Titus had madeproclamation beforehand, that no deserter should come alone 1 Tbis innumerable multitude of Jews that were sold by tho Romans, werean eminent completion of God's ancient threatening by Moses, that, if theyapostatized from the obedience to his laws, they should bo sold unto theirenemiss for bondmen and bondwomen, Deut. xxviii. 68. See more especiallythe note on ch ix. sect. 2. But one thing here is peculiarly remarkable, thatMoses adds, Though they should be sold for slaves, yet no maa should buythem f i. e. cither they should have none to redeem them from this sale intoslavery; or, rather, that the slaves to be sold should be more than were thepurchasers for them, and so they should be sold for little or nothing; whichis what Josephus here affirms to have been the case at this time.