OCR Output DISCOURSE III. CV under Demosthenes, the carnage in the river Asinarus of thetroops under Nicias, his surrender too, the butchery of thegenerals, and the miseries of the captivated residue of onceso flourishing and gallant an army.—These are the severalincidents of this book, for which an attentive reader will givethe highest commendation to the Historian, when he hathread them through: He will have no leisure until then tothink of Thucydides. Book VIII. The catastrophe hath now taken place in thishistory, and the reader is assured how all will end. Thewings of this soaring republic of Athens are clipped, neverto reach their full growth again: Yet, like an eagle in thesame situation, she will struggle hard a long time (as it were)with beak and talons, and would yet repulse her assailants,did she not grow sick at heart. Intestine faction will assisther enemies to finish her ruin, as a State imperial and com­mercial. A regular deduction of such incidents as these isthe subject of the Eighth and last book of Thucydides. As awriter he now performs in a more faint and less engagingmanner, compared with what hath gone before. He hath butdrawn his lines, but just sketched his pieces : But the draw­ings and sketches will still manifest the master's hand. Wewill give them a cursory view: The reader will give them amore exact and deliberate perusal. He sets out in his usual grave and solemn manner, to de­scribe the people of Athens, dispirited and distressed as theyare bv the overthrow in Sicily. All the passions and emo­tions of the human nature take their turn. They are incre­dulous ; they are angry; they are convinced ; and then, theydespond ; they pluck up their spirits again, and are resolvedto stand it out, nor abandon their own preservation. Theynow cast their thoughts towards every resource, and prepareagain for war with spirit and resolution. All the rest ofGreece is ready to concur with the victorious party ; all areeagerly running in to share the glory and the spoil. Theirown dependents are meditating revolts, and some make them Voi. I. O