OCR Output CXI.] AND OVERTHROWN. 221 take the pains to extinguish the fire, since if it were ex足tinguished, the banks were swallowed up already [and becomeuseless to them.] 5. Two days after this, Simon and his party made anattempt to destroy the other banks; for the Romans hadbrought their engines to bear there, and began already tomake the wall shake. And here one Tephtheus of Garsis,a city of Galilee, and Megassarus, one who was derived fromsome of queen Mariamne's servants, and with them one fromAdiabene, he was the son of Nabateus, and called by thename of Chagiras, from the ill fortune he had, the wordsignifying a lame man, snatched some torches, and ran sud足denly upon the engines. Nor were there during this warany men that ever sallied out of the city who were theirsuperiors, either in their own boldness or in the terror theystruck into their enemies. For they ran out upon the Ro足mans, not as if they were enemies but friends, without fearor delay; nor did they leave their enemies till they hadrushed violently through the midst of them, and set theirmachines on fire. And though they had darts thrown atthem on every side, and were on every side assaulted withtheir enemies' swords, yet did they not withdraw themselvesout of the dangers they were in till the fire had caught holdof the instruments; but when the flame went up, the Romanscame running from their camp to save their engines. Thendid the Jews hinder their succors from the wall, and foughtwith those that endeavored to quench the fire without anyregard to the danger their bodies were in. So the Romanspulled the engines out of the fire, while the hurdles thatcovered them were on fire : but the Jews caught hold of thebattering-rams through the flame itself, and held them fast,although the iron upon them was become red-hot: and nowthe fire spread itself from the engines to the banks, and pre足vented those that came to defend them; and all this whilethe Romans were encompassed round about with the flame,and, despairing of saving their works from it, they retired totheir camp. Then did the Jews become still more and momin number, by the coming of those that were within the city 19*