OCR Output 50 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768. popular condescension. Tiberius was of a differentcharacter: but the minds of men, softened by luxury,and during a long reign dissolved in pleasure, couldnot easily conform to that austerity, which suited therigid temper of the prince. LV. In the consulship of Drusus Csesar and CaiusNorbanus, a triumph was decreed, to Germanicus,though the war was not yet brought to a conclusion.The prince had concerted his plan of operations forthe ensuing summer; but he thought proper, early inthe spring, to open the campaign, by a sudden irrup­tion into the territories of the Cattians; a people dis­tracted among themselves by the opposite factions ofArminius and jBegestes; the former famous for histreachery to the Romans, and the latter for unshakenfidelity. Arminius was the common disturber of Ger­many; Segestes, on the other hand, had given re­peated proofs of his pacific temper. When measureswere taken for a general insurrection, he discoveredthe conspiracy; and during the banquet which pre­ceded the massacre of Varus, he proposed that hehimself, Arminius, and other chiefs, should be seized,and loaded with irons. By that vigorous measure hewas sure that the minds of the common people wouldbe depressed with fear; and, having lost their chiefs,none would dare to rise in arms. The general, ofcourse, would have leisure to discriminate the inno­cent from the guilty. But Varus was fated to perish,and Arminius struck the blow. In the present junc­ture, Segestes was compelled by the ardour of hiscountrymen to take up arms. He still however re­tained his former sentiments. He had, besides, mo­tives of a private nature: his daughter, whom he hadpromised in marriage to another chief, was ravishedfrom him by Arminius. The father and the son-in-law were by consequence inveterate enemies; and thatconnexion, which between persons mutually well in­clined forms the tenderest friendship, served only toinflame the animosity of the two contending chiefs. LVI. Encouraged by these dissensions, Germani­cus appointed Csecina to the command of four legions,fire thousand of the allies, and the German recruits