OCR Output AN. 44.] 515 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. lus, the son of Publius, of the Veturian tribe;of Caius Sentius, the son of Caius, of theSabhatine tribe; of Titus Atilius Bulbus, theson of Titus, lieutenant and vice praetor; tothe magistrates, senate, and people, of theEphesians, sendeth greeting. Lucius Lentu-lus, the consul, freed the Jews that are inAsia from going into the armies, at my inter­cession for them. And when I had made thesame petition some time afterward to Phanius,the imperator, and to Lucius Antonius, thevice-quaestor, I obtained that privilege ofthem also: and my will is that you take carethat no one give them any disturbance." The decree of the Delians. "The answerof the praetors, when Beotus was archon; onthe twentieth day of the month Thargeleon.While Marcus Piso, the lieutenant, lived inour city, who was also appointed over thechoice of the soldiers, he called us, andmany others of the citizens, and gave order,that if there be here any Jews, who are Ro­man citizens, no one is to give them any dis­turbance about going into the army: becauseCornelius Lentulus, the consul, freed theJews from going into the army, on account ofthe superstition they are under. You aretherefore obliged to submit to the praetor."And the like decree was also made respect­ing us by the Sardians. "Caius Phanius, the son of Caius, impera­tor, and consul, to the magistrates of Cos,sendeth greeting. I would have you knowthat the ambassadors of the Jews have beenwith me, and desired they might have thosedecrees, which the senate had made aboutthem: which decrees are here subjoined.My will is, that you have a regard to, andtake care of, these men, according to thesenate's decrees; that they may be safelyconveyed home through your country." The declaration of Lucius Lentulus, theconsul. "I have dismissed those Jews whoare Roman citizens, and who appear to me tohave their religious rites, and to observe thelaws of the Jews at Ephesus, on account ofthe superstition they are under. This actwas done before the thirteenth of the calendsof October." "Lucius Antonius, the son of Marcus, vice-quaestor, and vice-praetor; To the magistrates,senate, and people of the Sardians, sendethgreeting. Those Jews that are our fellow- voL. I. NOS. 43 & 44. citizens of Rome came to me, and demon­strated, that they had an assembly of theirown, according to the laws of their fore­fathers; and this from the beginning: as alsoa place of their own, wherein they deter­mined their suits and controversies with oneanother. Upon their petition therefore tome, that these might be lawful for them, Igive order that these privileges be preserved,and they be permitted to do accordingly." The declaration of Marcus Publius, theson of Spurius; and of Marcus, the son ofMarcus, and of Lucius, the son of Publius."We went to the pro-consul, and informedhim of what Dositheus, the son of Cleopatridaof Alexandria desired; that, if he thoughtgood, he would dismiss those Jews who wereRoman citizens, and were wont to observethe rites of the Jewish religion, on account ofthe superstition they were under. According­ly he did dismiss them. This was done beforethe thirteenth of the calends of October." "In the month *Quintilis, when LuciusLentulus and Caius Marcellus were consuls;and there were present Titus Appius Balbus,the son of Titus, lieutenant, of the Horatiantribe; Titus Tongius, of the Crustuminetribe, Quintus Resius, the son of Quintus;Titus Pompeius, the son of Titus; CorneliusLonginus; Caius Servilius Bracchus, the sonof Caius, a military tribune, of the Tarentinetribe; Publius Clusius Gallus, the son of Pub­lius, of the Veturian tribe; Caius Teutius,the son of Caius, a military tribune, of theEmilian tribe; Sextus Antilius Serranus, theson of Sextus, of the Esquiline tribe; CaiusPompeius, the son of Caius, of the Sabbatinetribe; Titus Appius Menander, the son ofTitus; Publius Servilius Strabo, the son ofPublius; Lucius Paccius Capito, the son ofLucius, of the Colline tribe; Aulus FuriusTertius, the son of Aulus; and Appius Me-nas. In the presence of these persons Len­tulus pronounced this decree: I have beforethe tribunal dismissed those Jews that areRoman citizens, and are accustomed to ob­serve the sacred rites of the Jews at Ephe­sus; on account of the superstition they areunder." "The magistrates of the Laodiceans, toCaius Rubilius, the son of Caius, the consul, * July4M