OCR Output 316 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA. Sertonus. Outbreakof theCinnaurevolution. 86. Victory of the govern­ment. made himself a name by his impetuous popular eloquence,and above all Quintus Sertorius, one of the most talented ofBoman officers and a man in every respect excellent, whosince his candidature for the tribuneship had been a personalenemy to Sulla and had been led by this quarrel into theranks of the disaffected to which he did not at all by naturebelong. The proconsul Strabo, although at variance withthe government, was yet far from going along with thisfaction. So long as Sulla was in Italy, the confederates for goodreasons remained quiet. But when the dreaded proconsul,yielding not to the exhortations of the consul Cinna but tothe urgent state of matters in the East, had embarked,Cinna, supported by the majority of the college of tribunes,immediately submitted the projects of law which had beenconcerted as a partial reaction against the Sullan restorationof 666. They embraced the political equalization of the newburgesses and the freedmen, as Sulpicius had proposed it, andthe restitution of those who had been banished in conse­quence of the Sulpician revolution to their former status.The new burgesses flocked en masse to the capital, thatalong with the freedmen they might terrify, and in case ofneed force, their opponents into compliance. But thegovernment party was determined not to yield; consulstood against consul, Gnaeus Octavius against Lucius Cinna,and tribune against tribune; the majority on both sidesappeared in arms on the day of voting. The tribunes ofthe senatorial party interposed their veto; when swordswere drawn against them even on the rostra, Octavius em­ployed force against force. His compact bands of armedmen not only cleared the Via Sacra and the Forum, butalso, disregarding the commands of their more gently-minded leader, exercised horrible atrocities against theassembled multitude. The Forum swam with blood on this"Octavius' day," as it never did before or afterwards—thenumber of corpses was estimated at ten thousand. Cinnacalled on the slaves to purchase freedom for themselves bysharing in the struggle; but his appeal was as unsuccessfulas the like appeal of Marius in the previous year, and nocourse was left to the leaders of the movement but to takeflight. The constitution supplied no means of proceedingfurther against the chiefs of the conspiracy, so long as theiryear of office lasted. But a prophet probably more loyal