OCR Output ax. 168.] 439 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the finest buildings: and when he had over­thrown the city walls, he built *a citadel inthe lower part of the city, for the place washigh, and overlooked the temple. On whichaccount he fortified it with high walls andtowers, and put into it a garrison of Mace­donians. However, in that citadel dweltthe impious and wicked part of the Jewishmultitude: from whom it proved that thecitizens suffered many and sore calamities.And when the king had built an idol altarupon God's altar, he slew swine upon it, andso offered a sacrifice neither according tothe law, nor the Jewish religious worship inthat country. He also compelled them toforsake the worship which they paid theirown God, and to adore those whom he tookto be gods, and made them build temples,and raise idol altars in every city and vil­lage, and offer swine upon them every day.He also commanded them not to circumcisetheir sons; and threatened to punish anythat should be found to have transgressedhis injunction. He also appointed overseers,who should compel them to do what he com­manded. And indeed many Jews there werewho complied with the king's commands, ei­ther voluntarily or out of fear of the penaltythat was denounced. But the best men, andthose of the noblest spirits, did not regardhim; but continued to pay a greater respectto the customs of their country, than concernas to the punishment which he threatened tothe disobedient. On this account they everyday underwent great miseries and bitter tor­ments: for they were whipped with rods, andtheir bodies were torn to pieces, and werecrucified, while they were still alive. Theyalso strangled those women and their sonswhom they had circumcised, as the king hadappointed; hanging their sons about theirnecks as they were upon the crosses. Andif there were any sacred book or law found,it was destroyed; and those with whom theywere found miserably perished also. When the Samaritans saw the Jews underthese sufferings, they no longer confessedthat they were of their kindred; nor thatthe temple on mount Gerizzim belonged toAlmighty God. But they now said, that theywere a colony of Medes and Persians. Andindeed they were a colony of theirs. Sothey sent ambassadors to Antiochus, and anepistle; whose contents are these:— "To king Antiochus Epiphanes, the god:a memorial from the Sidonians, who live atShechem. Our forefathers, upon certain fre­quent tplagues, and as following a certainancient superstition, had a custom of observ­ing:): that day which by the Jews is called theSabbath. And when they had erected a tem­ple at the mountain called Gerizzim, thoughwithout a name, they offered upon it the pro­per sacrifices. Now upon the just treatmentof these wicked Jews; those that managethy affairs, supposing that we were of kin tothem, and practised as they do, make usliable to the same accusations, although webe originally Sidonians, as is evident fromthe public records. We therefore beseechthee, our benefactor and saviour, to give or­der to Apollonius, the governor of this partof the country, and Nicanor, the procuratorof thy affairs, to give us no disturbance, norto lay to our charge what the Jews are ac­cused for, since we are aliens from theirnation, and from their customs; but let ourtemple, which at present hath no name at all,be named the Temple of Jupiter Hellenius.If this were once done, we should be no longerdisturbed; but should be more intent on ouroccupations with quietness; and so bring ina greater revenue to thee." When the Samaritans had petitioned forthis, the king sent them back the followinganswer in an epistle:— "King Antiochus to Nicanor. The Sido­nians, who live at Shechem, have sent methe memorial enclosed. When therefore wewere advising with our friends about it, the * This citadel, of which we have such frequent men­tion in the following history, both in the Maccabees, andin Josephus, seems to have been a castle built on a hill,lower than mount Sion, though upon its skirts, andhigher than mount Moriah, but between them both:which hill the enemies of the Jews now got possession of,and built on it this citadel, and fortified it; till a goodwhile afterward, the Jews regained it, demolished it, andlevelled the hill itself with the common ground, that their enemies might no more recover it, and thence mightoverlook the temple, and do them such mischief m theyhad long undergone from it, XIII. 6. t See the note in Book IX. chap. XIV. \ This allegation of the Samaritans is remarkable; thatthough they were not Jews, yet did they, from ancienttimes, observe the Sabbath day; and, as they elsewherepretend, the Sabbatic year also. XI. 8.