OCR Output VENETI. 1271 VENETIA. (the Mast of the French department of Morbihan,tliich corresponds pretty nearly to Caesar's Venena­ta this coast there are many bays and many " lin-■ulae " as Caesar calls them (Pointes). The most • markablc peninsula is Quiberon, which runs outnlo the sea near 10 miles, and is insulated at high. .iter. The Veneti commanded the sea in thesearts, and as the necessities of navigation often drovec.tsela to their ports, they made them pay for thebelter. The V'eneli had trade with Britain, with runthire and Ct>rnwaU, the parts of the islandrhich were nearest to them. They were the mostowerful maritime state on tile Atlantic. Their vessels were made nearly 6at-bottomcd, innJcr that they might the better take the groundrben they were left dry by the ebb. The headsrrre very high, and the sterns strong built, to stundlie violence of their seas. The material was oak.nstead of ropes they had chain cables, the usef which has been revived in the present cen-ury. Strabo (iv. p. 195) writes as if the ropes of theiccing were chains, which is very absurd, and isuntraiiicted by Caesar, who says that the yardsrere fastened to the masts by ropes, which thetomans cut asunder in the sea-fight with the Ve-rti (iii. 14). Instead of sails they used skins andrather worked thin, either because they had noax and did not know its use, or, as Caesar supposesto be more likely, because flaxen sails were notnited for tlie tempests of that coast. The Veneti rose against the Komans in the win-;r of b. c. 57, and induced many other neighbour-tg states to join them, even the Morini and Menapii."bey also sent to Britain for help. Caesar, who « absent in Italy during the winter (h.c. 57—6), sent orders to build ships on the Loire, probablyi the territory of the Andes, Turones and Carnutes, here his legions were quartered, and the ships were • •atod down to the Ocean. He got his rowers from the'rovincia. In the meantime he came himself into■allia. lie protected his rear against attack byending Labienua to the country of the Treviri, toerp tlie Belgae quiet and to stop the Germansmm crossing tin Rhine. He sent 1'. Crassus with■reive cohorts and a large body of cavalry intoiqnitania to prevent the Celtae from receiving anyid from these parts; and he kept the UnelliUsklli], Curimolites and Lexovii in check by i line Q. Titurius Sabinus into those parts witharea legions. D. Brutus commanded Caesar's fleetUse Gallic ships furnished by the Pictones and.intones, and other states that had been reduced tobedienca. Caesar began the campaign by besieging the'<?netian towns that were situated on the extremitiesf the tongues of land; but as the Veneti had abund-dc*> of ships, they removed themselves by watermm. one town to another, when they could no longerfsihl the besieger. They did this during a greatart of the summer, and Caesar could not prevent:, for he had not yet got together all his ships,liter taking several of their towns he waited for theremainder of his fleet. The Veneti with about20 of their best equipped ships came out of■jet to meet the Romans. The Roman shipsixikl not do the Gallic ships any damage byriving the heads of their vessels against them, forbe Gallic ships were too high at the prow and tootrong; nor could the Romans have attacked tbemr raising wooden frameworks on their decks, forle Gallic ships were too high. The only advantage that the Roman ships had was in the oars, which theGallic ships had not. They could only trust totheir sails. The Romans at last fixed sharp hooksat the end of long poles, and laying hold of theenemy's rigging with them, and then putting theirown vessels in motion by the oars, they cut the ropesasunder, and the yards and sails falling down, theVenetian ships were useless. Everything now de­pended on courage, in which the Romans had theadvantage; and the men were encouraged by thepresence of Caesar and the army, which occupiedall the hills and higher ground which commanded aview of the sea. The Roman ships got round theVenetian, two or three about each, for they had theadvantage in number of vessels, and the men beganto board the enemy. Some ships were taken and therest tried to sail away, but a dead calm came onand they could not stir. A very few ships escapedto the land at nightfall. 1 lie battle lasted fromthe fourth hour in the morning to sunset. Thuswas destroyed the first naval power that was formedon the coast of the Atlantic. The Veneti lost theirships, all their young men of fighting age, and mostof their men of mature age and of rank. Theysurrendered unconditionally. Caesar put to deathall the members of the Venetian state assembly, onthe ground that they had violated the law of nationsby imprisoning Q. Velanius and T. Silius, who hadbeen sent into their country in the previous winterto get supplies for the Roman troops who werequartered along the Loire (B.C. iii. 7, 8). The restof the people were sold by auction; all, we mustsuppose, that Caesar could lay hold of. Thus theterritory of the Veneti was nearly depopulated, andan active commercial people was swept from tlieearth. The Veneti never appear again as a power­ful stale. When Vercingetorix was rousing allGallia to come against Caesar at Alesia (b. c. 52),the contingent of all the Armoric states, seven oreight in number, was only 6000 men(fi. G. vii. 75). Dion Cassius (xxxix. 40—43) has four chapterson the history of this Venetian war, which, as usualwith him, he puts in confusion, by misunderstandingI Caesar and making his own silly additions. [G. I..] VENETIA (Oo«.<T(a: Eth. Owivrrtt or"E«Toj,Venetus). a province or region of Northern Italy, atthe head of the Adriatic sea, extending from thefoot of the Alps, where those mountains descend tothe Adriatic, to the mouths of the I'adus, and west­ward as far as the river Athesis (Adige), or the lakeBenacns. But the boundaries of the district seem tohave varied at different times, and there is Bonie dif­ficulty in determining them with accuracy. Inearly times, indeed, before the Roman conquest, wehave no account of the exnet line of demarcation be­tween the Veneti and the Cenomani, who adjoinedthem on the \V\, though according to Livy, Veronawas a city of the latter people (v. 35). After theRoman conquest, the whole of Verielia was at firstincluded as a part of Cisalpine Gaul, and was notseparated from it till tlie time of Augustus, whoconstituted bis Tenth Region of Venetia and Istria,but including within its limits not only Verona, butBrixia and Cremona also (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22, 19. s.23), both of which were certainly cities of the Ceno­mani, and seem to have continued to be commonlyconsidered as belonging to Cisalpine Gaul. (1'toLiii. 1. § 31.) Some authors, however, extended theappellation of Venetia still further to the W., so asto include not only Brixia and Cremona, but Bergo-mum also, and regarded the Addua as the boundary 4 M 4