OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. He deserved his fate; but we should find more reason to applaudthe humanity of Constantine, if he had spared an old man, thebenefactor of his father, and the father of his wife. During thewhole of this melancholy transaction, it appears that Fausta sa­crificed the sentiments of nature to her conjugal duties SJ. The last years of Galerius were less shameful and unfortunate, Death ofand though he had filled with more glory the subordinate station of a. d. 31Cæsar, than the superior rank of Augustus, he preserved, till the y"moment of his death, the first place among the princes of the Romanworld. He survived his retreat from Italy about four years, and wifelyrelinquishing his views of universal empire, he devoted his time tothe enjoyment of pleasure, and to the execution of some works ofpublic utility, among which we may distinguish the discharginginto the Danube the superfluous waters of the lake Pelso, and thecutting down the immense forests that encompassed it; an opera­tion which restored an extensive country to the use of his Pannoniansubjects 5<s. His death was occasioned by a very painful and lingeringdisorder. His body, swelled by an intemperant course of life to anunwieldy corpulence, was covered with ulcers, and devoured byinnumerable swarms of those insects, who have given their nameto a most loathsome disease5 7; but as Galerius had offended a very zeal­ous and powerful party among his subjects, his sufferings, instead ofexciting their compassion, have been celebrated as the visible effects ofdivine justice}8. He had no sooner expired in his palace of Nicomedia, Hfa domi-than the two emperors who were indebted for their purple to his favour between Mbegan to collect their forces, with the intention either of disputing or ™c',nJ^dof dividing the dominions which he had left without a master. Theywere persuaded however to desist from the former design, and toagree in the latter. The provinces of Asia fell to the share ofMaximin, aud those of Europe augmented the portion of Licinius.The Hellespont and the Thracian Bosphorus formed their mu­tual boundary, and the banks of those narrow seas, which flowed Vol. L Hhh ia