OCR Output 440 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. II. preserve it. Now the law has appointed several purificationsat our sacrifices, whereby wo are cleansed after a funeral,after what sometimes happens to us in bed, and after ac­companying with our wives, and upon many other occasionswhich it would be too long now to set down. And this is ourdoctrine concerning God and his worship, and is the same thatthe law appoints for our practice. 25. But, then, what are our laws about marriage ? Thatlaw owns no other mixtures of sexes but that which naturehath appointed, of a man with his wife, and that this be usedonly for the procreation of children. But it abhors the mix­ture of a male with a male: and if any one do that, death isits punishment. It commands us also, when we marry, notto have regard to a portion, nor to take a woman by violence,nor to persuade her deceitfully and knavishly, but to demandher in marriage of him who hath power to dispose of her, andis fit to give her away by the nearness of his kindred; for,says the Scripture, A woman is inferior to her husband inall things.1 Let her, therefore, be obedient to him : not so,that he should abuse her, but that she may acknowledge herduty to her husband : for God hath given the authority to thehusband. A husband, therefore, is to lie only with his wifewhom he hath married ; but to have to do with another man'swife is a wicked thing, which, if any one ventures upon, deathis inevitably his punishment: no more can he avoid the samewho forces a virgin betrothed to another man, or enticesanother man's wife. The law, moreover, enjoins us to brin;;up all our offspring, and forbids women to cause abortion ofwhat is begotten, or to destroy it afterward : and if any womanappears to have so done, she will be a murderer of her child,by destroying a living creature, and diminishing human kind ;if any one, therefore, proceeds to such fornication or murder,he cannot be clean. Moreover, the law enjoins, that afterthe man and wife have lain together, in a regular way, theyshall bathe themselves; for there is defilement contractedthereby, both in soul and body, as if they had gone intoanother country; for, indeed, the soul by being united to the 1 This text is nowhere in our present copies of the Oil Testament.