OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 71 and beneficial commerce with the inhabitants of thePersian Gulf. The subjects of the great king exalted,without a rival, his power and magnificence; and theRoman, who confounded their vanity by comparing hispaltry coin with a gold medal of the emperor Anastasius,had sailed to Ceylon in an Ethiopian ship, as a simplepassenger.0 As silk became of indispensable use, the emperor intmduc- T.. .. r . . t> • 11 Uun ofsilk- Justinian saw, with concern, that the Persians had oc-wo,msinu>cupied by land and sea the monopoly of this importantGreece"supply, and that the wealth of his subjects was continu­ally drained by a nation of enemies and idolaters. Anactive government would have restored the trade ofEgypt and the navigation of the Red sea, which had de­cayed with the prosperity of the empire; and the Romanvessels might have sailed, for the purchase of silk, tothe ports of Ceylon, of Malacca, or even of China. Jus­tinian embraced a more humble expedient, and solicitedthe aid of his Christian allies, the ^Ethiopians of Abys­sinia, who had recently acquired the arts of navigation,the spirit of trade, and the sea-port of Adulis,d still de­corated with the trophies of a Grecian conqueror. Alongthe African coast, they penetrated to the equator insearch of gold, emeralds, and aromatics; but they wiselydeclined an unequal competition, in which they mustbe always prevented by the vicinity of the Persians tothe markets of India; and the emperor submitted to thedisappointment, till his wishes were gratified by an un­expected event. The gospel had been preached to theIndians: a bishop already governed the Christians of St.Thomas on the pepper-coast of Malabar; a church was c The Taprohane of Pliny, (6.24.) Solinns, (c. 53.) and Salmas. Plinianae Exerci-tat. (p. 781, 782.) and most of the ancients, who often confound the islands of Ceylonand Sumatra, is more clearly described by Cosmas Indiuopleustes; yet even theChristian topographer has exaggerated its dimensions. His information on the In­dian and Chinese trade is rare and curious, (lib. 2. p. 138.lib. 11. p.337, 338. edit.Montfaucon.) d See Proconius, Persic. (lib. 2. c. 20.) Cosmas affords some interesting know­ledge of the port and inscription of Adulis (Topograph. Christ. lib. 2. p. 138. 140—143.) and of the trade nf the Axumites along the African coast uf Barharia or Zingi,(p. 138,139.) and as far as Taprohaue. (lib. 11. p. 339.)