OCR Output . DISCOURSE in. cvii not fall immediately into their hands, through the violenceof her own intestine seditions. But the new administrationproved of short continuance ; the democracy, though on amodel somewhat varied, is again established ; and Athensthus obtains a respite. Full of matter as this part of the history is, Thucydideshath kept his narration clear and unembarrassed. But then,it is a simple, unadorned narration, and never received thefinishing hand. There are scattered occasionally through­out it some short accounts, in what manner the principalagents delivered their sentiments at important junctures.They seem to have been memorials, laid down as the ground­work, for regular and full orations. The reader will be sorrythe author was hindered, by what accidents can only beguessed, from drawing out some of them at least into fullproportion; particularly that of the deputation from thearmy at Samos to Athens, in which " the people are per-" suaded to part with their darling democracy „•" of Thrasy-bulus to the troops at Samos, when they mutiny in favourof the democracy, in which, " he must pathetically have" expatiated on the revolt of Athens from liberty and her" choicest patriots, who might now form another Athens at" Samos, and preserve her empire, though they had lost" the city;" that of Alcibiades further, when on his recal-ment he harangues the army at Samos which recalled him,where " he deplores the malignity of his fate, magnifies his" ability yet to serve his country, and again shines in the" character of an able statesman, a subtle politician, and a" zealous patriot." Upon the whole. One point more must be particularlydistinguished in honour of the Athenians. The characters ofthem and of the Lacedaemonians are strongly contrastedthrough the whole course of this History, and highly to thecredit of the former. Their spirits rise with difficulties, andpatriotism starts out of mutiny and faction. The Lacedae­monians are indolent in success, and shew neither alacrity