OCR Output 288 THE DECLINE AND FALL noclasts, but they pronounced a more severe censure against the superstition ofthe Greeks, and the decrees of their pretended council, which was long despisedby the barbarians of the west(l) Among them the worship of images advancedwith silent and insensible progress: but a large atonement is made for their hesita­tion and delay, by the gross idolatry of the ages, which precede the reformation,and of the countries, both in Europe and America, which are still immersed in thegloom of superstition. It was after the Nicene synod, and under the reign of the pious Irene, that thepopes consummated the separation of Rome and Italy by the translation of theempire to the less orthodox Charlemagne. They were compelled to choose be­tween the rival nations; religion was not the sole motive of their choice; and whilethey dissembled the failings of their friends, they beheld, with reluctance and sus- Sicion, the catholic virtues of their foes. The difference of language and mannersad perpetuated the enmity of the two capitals; and they were alienated fromeach other by the hostile opposition of seventy years. In that schism the Romanshad tasted of freedom, and the popes of sovereignty; their submission would haveexposed them to the revenge of a jealous tyrant; and the revolution of Italy hadbetrayed the impotence, as well as the tyranny, of the Byzantine court. TheGreek emperors had restored the images, but they had not restored the Calabrianestates(S) and the Illyrian diocess(4) which the Iconoclasts had torn away fromthe successors of St. Peter; and pope Hadrian threatens them with a sentence ofexcommunication unless they speedily abjure this practical heresy. The Greekswere now orthodox, but their religion might be tainted by the breath of thereigning monarch: the Franks were now contumacious; but a discerning eye mightdiscern their approaching conversion from the use, to the adoration, of images.The name of Charlemagne was stained by the polemic acrimony of his scribes;but the conqueror himself conformed, with the temper of a statesman, to the va­rious practice of France and Italy. In his four pilgrimages or visits to the Vati­can, he embraced the popes in the communion of friendship and piety; knelt be­fore the tomb, and consequently before the image of the apostle; and joined, with­out scruple, in all the prayers and processions of the Roman liturgy. Wouldprudence or gratitude allow the pontiffs to renounce their benefactor? Had theya right to alienate his gift of the exarchate ? Had they power to abolish his go­vernment of Rome ? The title of patrician was below the merit and greatness ofCharlemagne; and it was only by reviving the western empire that they could paytheir obligations or secure their establishment. By this decisive measure theywould finally eradicate the claims of the Greeks from the debasement of a pro­vincial town: the majesty of Rome would be restored: the Latin Christians wouldbe united under a supreme head, in their ancient metropolis; and the conquerorsof the westrwould receive their crown from the successors of St. Peter. The Ro­man church would acquire a zealous and respectable advocate: and, under theshadow of the Carlovingian power, the bishop might exercise, with honour andsafety, the government of the city. (5) Before the ruin of paganism in Rome, the competition for a wealthy bishoprichad often been productive of tumult and bloodshed. The people was less nume- (1) Qui supra sanctissima patres nostii (episcopi et sacerdotes) omnimodis servitium et adorationem imagi-num renuentes contempseruut, atque consentientes condemnaverunt. (Concil. torn. ix. p. 101. canon 2. Frank-fund.) A polemic must he hard-hearted indeed, who does not pity the efforts of Baromus, Fagi, Alexander,Mnimbourg, &c, to etude this unlucky sentence. (2) Theophanes (p. 343.) specifies tliose of Sicily and Calabria, which yielded an annual rent of three ta­lents and a half of pold. (perhaps seven thousand pounds sterling.) Liutprand more pompously enumeratesthe patrimonies of the Roman church in Greece, Judea, Persia, Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Egypt, and Libya,which were detained by the injustice of the Greek emperor. (Legat. ad Nicephorum, in Script. Rerum Itali-carum. torn. ii. pars i. p. 481.) (3) The great diocess of the eastern Illyricum, with Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily; (Thoroassin, Discipline del'Eglise.tom. ii. p. 145.) by the confession of the Greeks, the patriarch of Constantinople had detached fromRome the metropolitans of Tliessaloniea, Athens. Corinth, Nieopolis, and Patrse; (Lue. Holsten. Geograph.Sacra, p. 23.) and his spiritual conquests extended to Naples and Amalphi. (Giannone, Istoria Civile di Napo-li,tnm. i. p.517—524. Pagi.A. D. 730, no. 11.) (4) In hoc ostenditur, quia ex uno capitulo ab errore reversis, in allis duobos, in eodem (was it the same?)permaneant errore . . . . de diocesi S. R. E. sen de patrimoniis interum increpantes commonemiis, ut n earestituere noluerit herelieum eum pro hnjusmodi errore persevantia decernemiifj Enist. Hadrian Pspse ad Ca«rolum Magnum, in Concil. torn. viii. p. 1508.) to which he adds a reason, most directly opposite to his conduct,that he preferred the salvation of so%ls and rule of faith, to the goods of this transitory worid. (5) Fontanini considers the emperors as no more than the advocates of rhe churcb. (advocatns et defensorS. R. E. See Dueange, Gloss. Lat. torn. i. p. 297.) His antagonist Mnratori reduces the popes to be no morethan the exarchs of the emperor. In the more equitable view of Mosheim, (Institut. Hilt. Ecclea. p. 264,265.) they held Rome under the empire as the most honourable species of fiet or bjenefice—preruuntur nodecaliginosa!