OCR Output 292 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII, prevailed upon the Ephoriand Endius, and sailed awaywich the five ships, in company with Chalcideus, theLacedæmonian ; and the voyage they performed withall possible expedition. About the fame time, the sixteen ships, which hadbeen at the war of Sicily under the orders of Gylippus,regained in sasety the Peloponnesian ports. They hadbeen intercepted near Leucadia, and terribly harrasscdby twenty-seven sail of Athenians, commanded by Hip-pocles, the son of Menippus, who was stationed thereto watch the return of the fleet from Sicily. Yet onlya single ship was lost. The rest, escaping the Athe->nian chace, arrived sase in the harbour of Corinth. But Chalcideus and Alcibiades, who were now upontheir voyage, stopped and detained whatever they met,that their course might not be divulged: And, touch­ing first at Corycus on the' main, and there setting atliberty such as they had detained, and gaining a conse­rence wich some of the Chians who were privy to theirdesigns, by whom being advised to make directly forthe harbour of Chios, without any formal notification,they arrive there, entirely unexpected by the Chians.By this, the many were thrown at once into astonish­ment and terror; but the few had so conducted mat­ters, that the council was that moment sitting; in whichChalcideus and Alcibiades being admitted to speech it —that ** many other ships are coming up," — but, sup­pressing all mention of the squadron blocked up at Pi­ræus, the Chians declare a revolt from the Athenians;and the Erythræans soon follow their example. So far successful, they passed on with three ships toClazomenæ, and cause that city also to revolt. In­stantly upon this, the Clazomenians crossed over intothe continent, and fortified Polichne, to be a place of had been trained from his birth in the severe discipline of Lycurgus. He was a tbermgkSpartan,—(laved close, plunged into cold water,could make a roeal'on dry bread, andfeast on black broth. One would think, says Plutarch, he had never kept a cook fahis life, never seen a perfumer, nor ever worn a Milesian robe, Life oiAltibiada. fase