OCR Output 380 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. most important portion of the new arrangements had beencompleted, although various, matters, particularly in coloni­zation, still remained to be done, he allowed the elections for79. 675 to have free course, declined re-election to the consul­ship as incompatible with his own ordinances, and at the79. beginning of 675 resigned the regency soon after the newSulla re- consuls Publius Servilius and Appius Claudius had enteredsigns the Qn ogjce- Even callous hearts were impressed, when theman, who had hitherto dealt at his pleasure with the life andproperty of millions, at whose nod so many heads hadfallen, who had mortal enemies dwelling in every street ofRome and in every town of Italy, and who without an allyof equal standing and even, strictly speaking, without thesupport of a fixed party had brought to an end his work ofreorganizing the state, a work offending a thousand in­terests and opinions—when this man appeared in the mar­ket-place of the capital, voluntarily renounced his plenitudeof power, discharged his armed attendants, dismissed hislictors, and summoned the dense throng of burgesses tospeak, if any one desired from him a reckoning. All weresilent: Sulla descended from the rostra, and on foot, attendedonly by his friends, returned to his dwelling through themidst of that very populace, which eight years before hadrazed his house to the ground.Character of Posterity has not justly appreciated either Sulla himselfSulla. or his work of reorganization, as indeed it is wont to judge unfairly of persons who oppose themselves to the currentof the times. In fact Sulla is one of the most marvellouscharacters—we may even say a phenomenon unique—inhistory. Physically and mentally of sanguine temperament,blue-eyed, fair, of a complexion singularly white but blush­ing with every passionate emotion—though otherwise a hand­some man with piercing eyes—he seemed hardly destined tobe of more moment to the state than his ancestors, who sincethe days of his great-great-grandfather Publius Cornelius290. 277. Rufinus (consul in 464, 477), one of the most distinguishedgenerals and at the same time the most ostentatious man ofthe times of Pyrrhus, had remained in second-rate positions.He desired from life nothing but serene enjoyment. Bearedin the refinement of such cultivated luxury as was at thattime naturalized even in the less wealthy senatorial familiesof Rome, be quickly possessed himself of all the plenitude ofsensuous and intellectual enjoyments which the combina­