OCR Output 134 ROMAN AFFAIRS. [B. IV. going out of the city; for as to such as had a mind to desert,they were watched by the zealots; and as to such as were notyet on the side of the Romans, their army kept them in, byencompassing the city round about on all sides. 2. Now as Vespasian was returned to Caesarca, and wasgetting ready with all his army to march directly to Jerusa­lem, he was informed that Nero was dead, after he hadreigned thirteen years and eight days; but as to any narra­tion after what manner he abused his power in the government,and committed the management of affairs to those vilewretches, Nymphidius and Tigellinus, his unworthy freedmen;and how he had a plot laid against him by them, and was de­serted by all his guards, and ran away with four of his mosttrusty freedmen, and slew himself in the suburbs of Rome;and how those that occasioned his death were in no Ions: timebrought themselves to punishment; how also the war in Gallended; and how Galba1 was made emperor, and returned outof Spain to Rome; and how he was accused by the soldiersas a pusillanimous person, and slain by treachery in the mid­dle of the market-place at Rome, and Otho was made empe­ror ; with his expedition against the commanders of Vitcllius,and his destruction thereupon; and besides what troublesthere were under Vitellius, and the fight that was about theCapitol; as also, how Antonius Primus and Mucianus slewVitellius and his German legions, and thereby put an end tothat civil war, I have omitted to give an exact account ofthem, because they are well known by all, and they are de­scribed by a great number of Greek and Roman authors: yetfor the sake of the connexion of matters, and that my historymay not be incoherent, I have just touched upon every thingbriefly. Wherefore Vespasian put off at first his expeditionagainst Jerusalem, and stood waiting whither the empirewould be transferred after the death of Nero. Moreover, 1 Of these Roman affairs and tumults under Gnlba, Otto, and Vitellius,here only touched upon by Josephus, see Tacitus, Suetonius, and Dio, morelargely. However, we may observe Vfith Ottius, that Josephus writes thename of the second of them not Otto, with many others, but Otho, with thacoins. Sec also the note on ch. xi. sect. 4.