OCR Output 274 THE DECLINE AND FALL Rome with a deep sense of the insult as well as of the danger. Va­lerian flattered himself, that the vigilance of his lieutenants wouldsufficiently provide for the safety of the Rhine and of the Danube;hut he resolved, notwithstanding his advanced age, to march inperson to the defence of the Euphrates. During his progressthrough Asia Minor, the naval enterprises of the Goths were sus­pended, and the afflicted province enjoyed a transient and fallaciouscalm. He passed the Euphrates, encountered the Persian mo­narch near the walls of Edessa, was vanquished, and taken prisonerIs defeated by Sapor. The particulars of that great event, are darkly and im-sonertJsapor perfectly represented; yet by the glimmering light which is afforded^"i^fof3' us» we mav discover a long series of imprudence, of error, and ofdeserved misfortunes on the side of the Roman emperor. He re­posed an implicit confidence in Macrianus, his prætorian præfect"VThat worthless minister rendered his master formidable only to theoppressed subjects, and contemptible to the enemies of Rome ,}S.By his weak or wicked counsels, the imperial army was betrayedinto a situation, where valour and military skill were equally un­availing M7. The vigorous attempt of the Romans to cut their waythrough the Persian host, was repulsed with great flaughter 1,8 j andSapor, who encompassed the camp with superior numbers, patientlywaited till the increasing rage of famine and pestilence had ensuredhis victory. The licentious murmurs of the legions, soon accusedValerian as the cause of their calamities; their seditious clamoursdemanded an instant capitulation. An immense sum of gold wasoffered to purchase the permission of a disgraceful retreat. But thePersian, conscious of his superiority, refused the money with dis?dain; and detaining the deputies, advanced in order of battle tothe foot of the Roman rampart, and insisted on a personal confer­ence with the emperor. Valerian was reduced tP the necessity ofintrusting his life and dignity to the faith of an enemy. The in­terview ended as it was natural to expect. The emperor was made6 a prisoner,