OCR Output 1004 SINAI. must suffice. There seems, then, to be no questionthat the site of Horeb via traditionally known to theIsraelites for many centuries after the Exodus (1Kinys, xix. 8); and if so, it is improbable that it■was subsequently lost, since its proximity to Elathand Ezion tieber, which were long in their posses­sion, would serve to ensure the perpetuity of thetradition. It is worthy of remark that Joseph usnowhere uses the name Horeb, but in the passageparallel to that above cited from the 1st book ofKings, as uniformly throughout his history, substi­tutes to Stvutoy o^os, — so far confirming the iden­tity of locality indicated by the two names, learnedlymaintained by Dr. Lepsius, who holds Horeb to bean Amalekite appellative equivalent in significationwith Sin, both signifying "earth made dry bydraining off the water." which earth he finds in thelarge mounds of alluvial deposit in the l>cd of WudyFariin, at the northern base of Scrbal, his Sinai.Buztorf, however, cites rabbinical authorities foranother etymology of Sinai, derived from the natureof the rock in the vicinity. (See Skate's Travels,4to. p. 443, and note 7.) Joseph us does not in anyway identify the site; but Kusebius and St. Jeromehave been erroneously miiler.stood to describe Serbalunder the name Sina, when they say that Pharan wassouth of Arabia, next to the desert of the Saracens,through which the children of Israel journeyed whenthey decamped from Sina (OrumcuL $.v. Pharan.)-,for they obviously confound the city of Paran with thewilderness mentioned in Numbers (xii. xiii. 3);and the description is so vague as to prove only theirignorance, if not of the true site of the city Pharan(which they place 3 days east of Alia), at least ofthe utter want of nil connection between this andthe desert of Zin, which is Paran; and in this, as inother passages, on which much reliance has beenplaced in this discussion, it is clear that they are notwriting from any local knowledge, but simply draw­ing deductions from the Scripture narrative.—(Seee. g. Onuriuut. s. v. Raphadim), which we are per­haps equally competent to do. The earliest Chris­tian writer, then, who can be quoted as a witness tothe true site of the "Mountain of the Law" isCusmas Indicopleustes (circ. a. i>. 530), who un­doubtedly describes Mount Choreb, in the Sinaic(desert ?), as near to Pharan,about 6 miles distant;and this Pharan must be the Pharan of the eccle­siastical annals, whose ruins at the foot of MountSerbal have been noticed above. This then is directhistorical testimony in favour of a hypothesis firststarted by Burekhardt in modern times, advocatedby Dr. Lepsius, and adopted by Mr. Forster andothers. But then it appears to be the only clearhistorical evidence, and must therefore be comparedwith that in favour of the existing tradition, which,as it is accepted in its main features by Drs. Robin­son and Wilson, Bitter, Mr. Stanley, and other emi­nent scholars, is obviously not unworthy of regard.That the present convent of St. Catharine was ori­ginally founded by the emperor Justinian (abouta. i>. 556), is as certain as any fact in history; andit is equally difficult to imagine that, at so short aninterval alter the journey of Cosmas, the remem­brance of the true Sinai could have been lost, and thatthe emperor or the monks would have acquiesced inwhat they knew to be a fictitious site; for themountain had lone; been regarded with veneration bythe monks, who, however, had erected no monasterybefore this time, but dwelt in the mountains andvalleys abrat the bush in which God appeared to Moses. (Eutychii A1'rocopius, Dt Aetlijuwhen their monasteitimes, it is clear thatbe understood. On tlCosmas can hardly iwas not originated, 1erection of Justinian'sargument in favour ofgraphical one may berectly placed by Dr.Faran, at the foot ofcontestably that Serboccasion could therefrom liephidim, and;were at the very bw1, 2). Dr. Lepsius fcto remove it by insiilive is not to I* implimentioned in connectsa paljuihle difficultychoice of difficulties idoes least violence to IBy far the strongeidentity of Serbal witcelebrated inscriptionsmountain and in the sNot that anything caithese mysterious recorthem is still in its irespecting them canmcontaining them are iarticle: but it maywhole of the earliest tto offer for their cluckby an early writer Wlooked in this discussiof Cosmas Indicopleurl*en instructed in wrlogue given in Horebin n quiet school, ir"from whence it con*you may see in theall the stations of tlthose parts, which ha1tains, engraven withself, who journeyed icertain Jews also hisaying that they \xgrimage (&wfpois) ofin such a year, and siwritten in our hostehacquired the ai t, pracso that all those placitions, preserved eventhe unbelievers, as I tcan visit those placesquire and learn conathe truth." (Cosmasv. apud Montfaucon, (p. 205.) On this itwhile it is certain tha'original nor later Hebnor Chaldaic,—still tcould decipher them,the most part simi(the Hamyantic orwhich the whole regiopeninsula teems. If,and very probable conrock-hewn inscription