OCR Output TIBERIS. 1199 TIBULA. 3, liv. 1.) Great attention was bestowed by An­imus upin the subject, and he first instituted•i_*irtrates with the title of Curatorcs Tibcris,ttnae special duty was to endeavour to restrain the;ttt within due bounds, to preseire the etnbank-ants, 4c (Suet Oct. 37.) These officers receivedxrtased powers under Tiberius, and continuedown to the close of the Empire. We frequently«t with mention in inscriptions of the " CuratoresiTca Tiberis et riparum," and the office seems to-i^e been regarded as one of the most honourable inbe rtate. (Dion Cass. Ivii. 14; Orell. truer. 1172,2«4, fcc.; Grater, Inter, pp. 197, 198.") But it isridtot that all their efforts were ineffectual. InM reign of Tiberius so serious was the mischiefmwd hy an inundation in A. D. 15 that it wasropnaed in th« senate to diminish the bulk of the-itrrs by diverting some of the chief tributaries ofie strain, such as the Nar, Velinua and Clanis.Tae. Ann. i. 76; Dion Cass. Ivii. 14.) ThisIan wax, however, abandoned as impracticable;ad a a. I). 69 another inundation took place,h.t b appears to have caused still more damageiin any that had preceded it (Tar. U'ut. i. 86).; is strange that in face of these facts Pliny>>*i\i assert that the Tiber was so confined within"ifedal banks as to have very little power of out-Tii, ami that its inundations were rather subjects'.uprrttitious alarm than formidable in themselves.'m. iii. 5. a. 9.) During the later ages of the Em-r indeed we hear but little of such outbreaks of the.vr, but this is very probably owing only to theaaty nature of our records. One great inundation!)3*ever, recorded as doing great mischief in the••m »{ Trajan, another in that of Macrinus, and airl in that of Valerian. (Dion Cass, Ixxviii. 25;kU Cat*. 34, EpiL 13.) One of the most de­ntin" of all is said to have been that of A. D.10, which added to the various calamities that atV. time almost overwhelmed the city. (IlitLfaced, xviii. p. 683; Greg. Turon. x. 1.) At the> -tnt day the lower parts of Home are still frequentlynded by the river, for though the soil of these partsthe ci'.y has unquestionably been raised, in someares many feet, the bed of the Tiber has un-ib'edly been also elevated, though probably in at.- decree. The whole subject of the inundationsid navigation of the Tiber, and the measureskra is ancient times in connection with them, isily illustrated by Preller in an article entitled-n vui tier Tiber in the Berickte der Siichsitchen••ilUeJmft for 1848 and 1849.Tha Tiber appears to have been in ancient times-x^Kiilly frown,at least partially; a circumstance«h:ch the Latin poets repeatedly allude. But we■st not construe their rhetorical expressions toomfy; and it is clear from the terms in which-y notices its being frozen over in the extraor-eary winter of B. c. 398, that such an occurrencei» A extreme rarity. (" Insignis annus hieme gelidaTwvoaa fait, adeo ul viae clausae, Tiberis innavi-iui fserit. Liv. v. 13.) St Augustin also alludes'tv i) a winter (apparently the same noticed byvr), * at Tiberis quoque glacie duraretur," as aV unheard of in bis times. (Augustin, Civ. Dei,17.) It wa» a tradition generally received among the—ins that the Tiber had been originally calledI'rala; and that it changed its name in consequence TiKerinoa, one of the fabuloua kingB of Alba,i'itj been drowned in its waters. (Liv. i. 3; Dionys. i. 71; Vict. Orig. G. Rom. 18.) Virgil, however,who calls the king Thybris, assigns him to an earlierperiod, prior to the landing of Aeneas (Ant. viii.330). Hence the river is not unfrequentlv called bythe Roman poets Albula. (Sil. Ital. vi. 391, viii.455, &c.) It had naturally ita tntelary divinity orriver-god, who, as we learn from Cicero, was regu­larly invoked in their prayers by the augurs underthe name of Tiberinus (Cic. dr N. IK iii. 20). Heis frequently introduced by the Roman poets as"pater Tiberinus" (Enn. Am. i. p. 43; Virg. Aen.viii. 31, 72; &c ) [E. H. B.] TIBIGEXSE OPPIDUM, a town in AfricaPropria, apparently the Thlgiln (Siyf&i) of Pto­lemy (iv. 3. § 29; Plin. v. 4. s. 4). [T. H. D.] TIBILIS, a town in the interior of Numidia, 54miles from Cirta having hot mineral spring*(Aquae Tibilitanae) (August. Ep. 128: Itin. AnLp. 42), commonly identified with llammom J/eaAu-tin in the mountains near the river Seibvnse; but,according to D'Avezac and the map of the provinceof Constantino (Par. 1837), it U Hammam-el.Benin, somewhat more to the N. IT. H. D.] T1BISCUM (Tido-aw. Ptol. iii. 8. § 10), a townof Dacia, on the river Tibiscus. By the Geogr. Rav,it is called Tibis (iv. 14), and in the Tab. rentTiviscum. Its ruins exist at Kavaran. at thejunction of the Tcmetz (Tibiscus) and Biftra (cf.Ukert, iii. 2. p. 616). [T. H. D.] TIBISCUS(T.'S.ffKoi,Ptol. iii. 8. § l),atributaryriver of the Danube in Dacia. We also find it calledTibissus {Inter. Grnt. p. 448. 3) and Tibisia (GaigrRav. iv. 14). Several authors identify it with theTisianns or Tysia (the modern Theiu), with which,indeed, Ptolemy seems to have confounded it, as hedoes not mention the latter (Mannert, iv. p 203;Sickler, i. p. 196; cf. Ukert, iii. 2. p. 603). ButForbiger, after Reicliard, identifies it with the Te-meat; his grounds for that opinion being that Jor-nandes (Get. c. 34) and the Geographer of Ravenna((. c.) mention the Tysia and Tibisia as two distinctrivers, and that the site of the ancient town of Ti-biscum appears to point to the Donetz {Hondb. d.alt. Geogr. iii. p. 1103, note). It is probable thatthe Pathiasus of Pliny (iv. 12. s. 25) and I'artbiarusof Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 13. § 4 ) are thesame river, though some identify them with theTisianns. [T. H. I).] TIBISIS (T(Siffit), a large river of Scytuia,which Herodotus describes as rising in Ml. IlHenitis.and flowing into the Maris (iv. 49). It is identifiedby some with the Kara Imw. TIBULA (TiSooao, Ptol.), a town of Sardinia,near the N. extremity of the island, which appearsto have been the customary landing-place for travel­lers coming from Corsica; for which reason theItineraries give no leas than four lines of route, takingtheir departure from Tibula aa a starting-point.{Itin. Ant. pp. 78—83.) It is very unfortunatetherefore that ita position is a matter of great un­certainty. That assigned to it by ltolemy wouldplace it on the site of Caste! Sardo on the N. eoaatof the island, and only about 18 miles from PortoTorres, but this is wholly incompatible with thestatements of the Itineraries, and must certainlybe erroneous. Indeed Ptolemy himself places theTibulates, or Tibulatii (TifovAarioi), who musthave been closely connected with the town of thatname, in the extreme N. of the island (Ptol. iii. 3.§ 6), and all the data derived from the Itinerarieaconcur in the same result The most probable post­