OCR Output 50 VESPASIAN. [b. ni. many hast thou persuaded to lose their lives for liberty ?Thou hast heretofore had a false reputation for manhood,and a like false reputation for wisdom, if thou canst hopefor preservation from those against whom thou hast foughtso zealously, and art, however, willing to be preserved bythem, if they be in earnest. But although the good fortuneof the Romans hath made thee forget thyself, we ought totake care that the glory of our forefathers may not betarnished. We will lend thee our right hand and a sword;and if thou wilt die willingly, thou wilt die as general of theJews ; but if unwillingly, thou wilt die as a traitor to them."As soon as they said this, they began to thrust their swordsat him, and threatened they would kill him if he thought ofyielding himself to the Romans. 5. Upon this Josephus was afraid of their attacking him,and yet thought he should be a betrayer of the commands ofGod, if he died before they were delivered. So he began totalk like a philosopher to them, in the distress he was thenin, when he said thus to them.—" O my friends, why are weso earnest to kill ourselves ? and why do we set our soul andbody, which are such dear companions, at such variance?Can any one pretend that I am not the man I was formerly ?Nay, the Romans are sensible how that matter stands wellenough. It is a brave thing to die in war, but so that it beaccording to the law of war, by the hand of conquerors. If,therefore, I avoid death from the sword of the Romans, I amtruly worthy to be killed by my own sword and my ownhand: but if they admit of mercy, and would spare theirenemy, how much more ought we to have mercy upon our­selves, and to spare ourselves ? for it is certainly a foolishthing to do that to ourselves which we quarrel with them fordoing to us. I confess freely, that it is a brave thing to diefor liberty, but still so that it be in war, and done by thosewho take that liberty from us; but in the present case ourenemies do neither meet us in battle, nor do they kill us.Now, ho is equally a coward who will not die when he isobliged to die, and he who will die when ho is not obliged soto do. "What are we afraid of when we will not go up to