OCR Output AN. 610,] 363 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. prive them of all the happiness they enjoyed;which sentence none could set aside; sinceit was passed on account of their transgres­sion of the laws, and of their not having re-Eented in so long a time while the prophetsad exhorted them to amend, and had fore­told the punishment that would ensue ontheir impious practices; which threateningGod would certainly execute upon them;that they might be persuaded that he wasGod, and had not deceived them in any re­spect, as to what he had denounced by theprophets: that yet, because Josiah was arighteous man, he would at present delaythose calamities; but that after his death hewould send on the multitude what miserieshe had determined for them."* So the messengers, upon this prophecy ofthe woman, came and told it to the king.Whereupon he sent to the people everywhere, and ordered that the priests and Le-vites should come together to Jerusalem; andcommanded that those of every age shouldbe present. And when they were gatheredtogether, he first read to them the holybooks; after which he stood upon a pulpit,in the midst of the multitude, and obligedthem to make a covenant, with an oath,that they would worship God, and keepthe laws of Moses. Accordingly they gavetheir assent willingly; and undertook to dowhat the king had recommended. So theyimmediately offered sacrifices, after an ac­ceptable manner; and besought God to begracious and merciful to them. He alsoenjoined the high-priest, that if there re­mained in the temple any vessels dedicatedto idols, or to foreign gods, they should castthem out. So when a great number of such vessels were got together, he burnt them,and scattered their ashes abroad; and slewthe priests of the idols, that were not of thefamily of Aaron. When he had done thus in Jerusalem, hewent into the country, and utterly destroyedwhat buildings had been made therein, byking Jeroboam, in honour of strange gods;and he burnt the bones of the false prophetsupon that altar which Jeroboam first built, tAnd as the prophet Jadon, who came toJeroboam, when he was offering sacrifice,and when all the people heard him, fore­told what would come to pass, viz. that acertain man of the house of David, Josiahby name, should do what is here mentioned.And it happened that those predictions tookeffect after three hundred and sixty-oneyears.J After the9e things, Josiah went to suchother Israelites as had escaped captivity unTder the Assyrians; and persuaded them todesist from their impious practices, and toleave off the honours they paid to thestrange gods; but to worship rightly theirown Almighty God, and adhere to him. Healso searched the houses, the villages, andthe cities, out of a suspicion that somebodymight have idols in private. Nay indeed,he took away the chariots of the sun|| thatwere set up in his royal palace; which hispredecessors had framed; and what thingsoever there was besides which they wor­shipped as a god: and when he had thuspurged all the country, he called the peopleto Jerusalem, and there celebrated the feastof unleavened bread, and that called thepassover.§ He also gave the people, forpaschal sacrifices, thirty thousand young * That this book of the law of Moses, laid up in theholy house itself, was a small book of the principal laws ofrighteousness, and not the entire Pentateuch itself, whichwas laid up only in one of the courts of the temple, seeHoreb Covenant revived, page 107, 108. t 2 Kings xxii. 15—20. !2 Kings xxiii. 15.It is difficult to reconcile the account in the secondbook of Kings xxiii. 11. with this account in Josephus;and to translate this passage truly in Josephus; whosecopies are supposed to be here imperfect. However,the general sense of both seems to be this: that therewere certain chariots with their horses, dedicated tothe idol of the sun, or to Moloch; which idol mightbe carried about in procession, and worshipped by thepeople: these chariots were now taken away, as Jo- voL. I.—NOS. 31 & 32. sephus says; or, as the book of Kings says, burnt withfire by Josiah. § The words of the text are—Surely there was not heldsuch a passover, from the days of the judges, nor in allthe days of the kings of Israel, and of the kings of Judah,2 Kings xxiii. 22. which, taken in a literal sense, mustdenote, that this passover, which was celebrated by twotribes only, was more numerous, and more magnificentthan all those that were observed in the days of Davidand Solomon, in the most happy and flourishing state ofthe Jewish monarchy, and when the twelve tribes weremet together, to solemnize that feast. It may not beamiss therefore to allow, that, in these expressions, thereis a kind of auxesis or exajjgeration, not unusual in sacred,as well as in profane authors. For nothing is more com­mon than to say, "Never was so much splendour and 3Q