OCR Output 12 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Moreover Moses, after the seventh day wasover, begins to talk philosophically;* and con­cerning the formation of man says thus: thatGod took dust from the ground,f and formedman,J a"d inserted in him a spirit and a soul.This man was called Adam, which in the*He-brew tongue signified one that is red, becausehe was formed out of red earth compoundedtogether, for of that kind is virgin and true,earth. God also presented the living crea­tures, when he had made them, according totheir kinds, both male and female, to Adam,and gave them those names by which theyare still called. But when he saw that Adamhad no female companion, no society, for therewas no such created, and that he wonderedat the other animals which were male and fe­male, he laid him asleep, and took away oneof his ribs, and out of it formed the woman ;§whereupon Adam knew her when she wasbrought to him, and acknowledged that shewas made out of himself. Now a woman iscalled in the Hebrew tongue Issa: but thename of this woman was Eve, which signifiesthe mother of all living. Moses says farther, that God planted a pa­radise in the east, flourishing with all sorts oftrees, and that among them was the tree oflife, and another of knowledge, whereby wasto be known what was good and evil; andthat when he had brought Adam and his wifeinto this garden, he commanded them to takecare of the plants.|| Now the garden was wa­tered by one river,** which ran round aboutthe whole earth, and was parted into^Purparts. Phison, which denotes a multitude, lrunning into India, makes its exit into the'sea, and is by the Greeks called Ganges. Eu­phrates also, as well as Tigris, goes downinto the Red Sea,ff Now the name Euphrates,or Phrath, denotes either a dispersion or aflower; by Tigris, or Diglath, is signified whatis swift, with narrowness; and Geon runsthrough Egypt, and denotes what arises fromthe East, which the Greeks call Nile. God therefore commanded that Adam andhis wife should eat of all the rest of the plants,but to abstain from the tree of knowledge,and foretold to them, that if they toucjied it, itwould prove their destruction. But while all * Since Josephns, in his preface, says, that Moses wrotesome things enigmatically, some allegorically, and the restin plain words; since in his account of the first chapter ofGenesis, and the three first verses of the second, he givesus no hints of any mystery at all; but when he comes tover. 4. &c. he says, that Moses, after the seventh day wasover, began to talk philosophically, it is not improbablethat he understood the rest of the second and the thirdchapters in some enigmatical, allegorical, or philosophicalsense. The change of the name of God just at this placefrom Elohim to Jehovah Elohim, from God to Lord God,in the Hebrew, Samaritan, and Septuagint, also seems tofavour some such change in the narration or construc­tion. t Gen. ii. 7. j Josephus supposed man to be compounded of Spirit,soul, and body, with St. Paul, 1 Thess. v. 23, and the restof the ancients. He elsewhere says also, that the bloodof animals was forbidden to be eaten, as having in it souland spirit. § Gen. ii. 22. II The place wherein the country of Eden, as mentionedby Moses, seems most like to be situated, is Chaldea, notfar from the banks of the Euphrates. To this purpose,when we find Rabshekah vaunting his master's 'actions,have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fa­thers luive destroyed, as Gazan and Haran, and Rezeph,and the children of Eden, which were in Telassar? As Te-lassar, in general, signifies any garrison or fortification, sohere, more particularly, it denotes that strong fort whichthe children of Eden built in an island of the Euphrates,towards the west of Babylon, as a barrier against the in­cursions of the Assyrians on that side. And therefore, inall probability the country of Eden lay on the west side, or rather on both sides the Euphrates, after its conjunctionwith the Tigris, a little below the place where, in processof time, the famous city of Babylon came to be built. Thuswe have found out a country called Eden, which for itspleasure and fruitfulness, as all authors agree, answers thecharacter which Moses gives of it. Herodotus, who wasan eye witness of it, tells us, that where Euphrates runsout into Tigris, not far from the place where Ninus isseated, that region is, of all that ever he saw, the most ex­cellent : so fruitful in bringing forth corn, that it yields twohundred fold; and so plenteous in grass, that the peopleare forced to drive their cattle from pasture, lest theyshould surfeit themselves. B. ** Whence this strange notion came, which is not pe­culiar to Josephus, but Dr. Hudson says, is derived fromelder authors; as if four of the greatest rivers in the world,running two of them at vast distances from (he other two,by some means or other watered Paradise, is hare, to say.Only, since Josephus has already appeared to allegorizethis history, and takes notice that these four names had aparticular signification: Phison for Ganges, a multitude;Phrath for Euphrates, either a dispersion or a flower;Diglath for Tigris, what is swift with narrowness; and Geonfor Nile, what arises from the east; we perhaps mistakehim when we suppose he literally means those four rivers,especially as to Geon, or Nile, which arises from the east;while he very well knew the literal Nile arises from thesouth; though what farther allegorical sense he had inview is now, I fear, impossible to be determined. tt By the Red Sea is not here meant the Arabian Gulf,which alone we now call by that name, but all that SouthSea which included the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, asfar as the East Indies; as Reland and Hudson truly notefrom the old geographers.