OCR Output NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixv [105] Constantine was very attentive to the pri­vileges and comfort of his fellow-veterans (Conve-terant), as he now began to style them. See theTheodosia-n Code, 1. vii. tit. 20. torn. ii. p.419—429. [106] Whilst the Athenians maintained the em­pire of the sea, their fleet consisted of three, andafterwards of four, hundred gallies of three ranks ofoars, all completely equipped and ready for imme­diate service. The arsenal in the port of Piraushad cost the republic a thousand talents, abouttwo hundred and sixteen thousand pounds. SeeThucydides de Eel. Peloponn. 1. ii. c. 13. andMeursius de Fortuna Attica, c. 19. [107] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 95, 96. This greatbattle is described in the Valesian fragment (p.714.), in a clear though concise manner. " Liciniusvero circum Hadrianopolin maximo exercitu la-teraardui montis impleverat: illuctoto agmineCon-stantinus inflexit. Cum bellum terra marique tra-heretur, quamvis per arduum suis nitentibus, atta-m'en difciplina militari et felicitate, Constantinus Li-cinii confusum et fine ordine agentem vicit exerci-tum; leviter femore sauciatus." [108] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 97, 98. The currentalways sets out of the Hellespont; and when it isassisted by a north wind, no vessel can attempt thepassage. A south wind renders the force of the cur­rent almost imperceptible. See Tournefort's Voyageau Levant, Let. xi. [109] Aureliu3 Victor. Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 98.According to the latter, Martinianus was MagisterOfficiorum (he uses the Latin appellation in Greek).Some medals seem to intimate, that during his stiortreign he received the title of Augustus. [11c] Eusebius (in Vita Constantin. 1. ii. c. 16,17.) ascribes this decisive victory to the piousprayers of the emperor. The Valesian fragment(p. 714.) mentions a body of Gothic auxiliaries,under their chief Aliquaca, who adhered to theparty of Licinius. [111] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 102. Victor Junior imEpitome. Anonym. Valesian. p. 714. [112] Contra religionem sacramenti. Thessa-lonicæ privatus occifus est. Eutropius x. 6. and hisevidence is confirmed by St. Jerome (in Chronic.) a*well as by Zosimus, 1. ii p. 102. The Valesianwriter is the only one who mentions the soldiers,and it is Zonaras alone who calls in the assistance*of the senate. Eusebius prudently slides over thisdelicate transaction. But Sozomen, a century af­terwards, ventures to assert the treasonable practicesof Licinius. [113] See the Theodosian Code, 1. xv. tit. 15.torn. v. p. 404, 405. These edicts of Constantinebetray a degree of passion and precipitancy very un­becoming of the character of a lawgiver. NOTES ON THE FI £i] T"\UM Assyrios penes, Medosque, et PersasOriens suit, defpectissima pars fervitutis.Tacit. Hist. v. 8. Herodotus, who visited Asiawhilst it obeyed the last of those empires, slightlymentions the Syrians of Palestine, who, accordingto their own confession, had received from Egyptthe rite of circumcision. See 1. ii. c. 104. [2] Diodorus Siculus, 1. xl. Dion Caslius, 1.xxxvii. p. 121. Tacit. Hist. v. 1—9. Justin,xxxvi. 2, 3. • • - . .... Vol:t. TEENTH CHAPTER. [3] Tradidit arcano quæcunque volumine Moses,Non monstrare vias, eadem nisi sacra colentiQuæsitos ad fontes solos deducere verpas.The letter of this law is not to be found in the pre­sent volume of Moses. Eut the wife, the humaneMaimonides openly teaches, that if an idolater fallinto the water, a Jew ought not to save him frominstant death. See Basnage, Histoirc des Juifs, I.vi. c. 28. [4] A Jewish sect, which indulged themselves ina sort of occasional conformity, derived from Herod, i by