OCR Output 344 [BOOK IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. of the life of Amaziah; because of his inno­vations in religion, and his contempt of God;when he had lived fifty-four years, and hadreigned twenty-nine.* He was succeeded byhis son, whose name was Uzziah. CHAP. X. OF THE AFFAIRS OF JEROBOAM, KINO OF ISRAEL; JONAHTHE PROPHET; ZECHARIAH, THE SON OF JEROBOAM JAND UZZIAH, KING OF JERUSALEM.v IN the fifteenth year of the reign of Ama­ziah, Jeroboam, the son of Joash, reignedover Israel,f in Samaria. The king wasguilty of contumely against God,J and be­came very wicked in worshipping of idols,and in many absurd and impious underta­kings, by which he occasioned ten thousandmisfortunes to the people of Israel. Now one Jonah, a prophet, foretold to him, that heshould make war with the Syrians, and con­quer their army, and enlarge the bounds ofhis kingdom on the northern parts, to the cityHamath; and on the southern, to the lakeAsphaltites; for the bounds of the Canaanitesoriginally were these, as Joshua their generalhad determined them. So Jeroboam madean expedition against the Syrians, and over­run all their country, as Jonah had foretold.Now I cannot but think it necessary to de­scribe the actions of this prophet, so far as Ihave found them written down in the He­brew books. Jonah|| had been commandedby God to go to the kingdom of Nineveh;and to publish in that city, how it should losethe dominion it had over the nations. But hewent not, out of fear; nay,' he ran away fromGod to the city§ Joppa;** and finding a shipthere, he went into it, and sailed to Tarsus * From an. 840 to an. 811. t 2 Kings xiv. 22. J What I have above noted concerning Jehoash, seemsto have been true also concerning his son Jeroboam II.viz. that although he began wickedly, as Josephus agreeswith our other copies; and, as Josephus adds, was thecause of a vast number of misfortunes to the Israelites, inthose his first years, (the particulars of which are unhap­pily wanting both in Josephus and in all our copies;) sodoes it seem that he was afterward reclaimed, and becamea good king; and so was encouraged by the prophetJonah, and had great successes afterward; when Godsaved the Israelites by the hand of Jeroboam, the son ofJoash, 2 Kings xiv. 27. which encouragement by Jonah,and great successes, are equally observable in Josephus,and in other copies. II The only mention we have of this prophet (whomthe Jews will have to be the son of the widow of Zare-phath, whom Elijah raised from the dead, but withoutany foundation of reason) is in this passage, and the ac­count of this famous mission to Nineveh. What the pro­phecies were, whereby he encouraged Jeroboam to pro­claim war against the king of Syria, we have no whererecorded; but as we have not every thing which theprophets did write, so several prophets, we must know,did not commit their predictions to writing. From thisplace, however, we may observe, that God was verymerciful to the Israelites, (though they were certainly avery wicked people,) in continuing a race of prophetsamong them, even after Elisha was dead. (Patrick'sCommentary.) It is a very common opinion among theJews, as we said, that Jonah was the son of the widow ofZarephath; and this opinion they found upon the wordsof the mother, when she received her son alive from theprophet's hand. By this I know, that the word of theLord in thy mouth is truth, 1 Kings xvii. 24. for there­fore, say they, was the child called the son of Amittai;because Amittai signifies truth: a weak reason, and suchas is plainly repugnant to the testimony of Scripture. Forthis we know for certain, that Jonah lived in the reigns of Joash, and Jeroboam the second, kings of Israel, andtherefore could not be the son of the widow of Zarephath,since the former of these two princes did not begin toreign till sixty years after the translation of Elijah. Otherspretend that he was son to the Shunamite woman, whomthe prophet Elisha raised from the dead; but Shunam andGath-hepher (where we are certain Jonah was born) weretwo quite different places, the former in the tribe of Issa-char, the other in that of Zabulon; and therefore, we mayconclude, that Amittai was the proper name of Jonah'sfather, who lived in a little canton of the tribe of Zabulon,called Hepher, orHopher, wherein was the town of Goth,which is generally believed to be the same with Jotapata,so fiimous for the siege which Josephus there maintainedagainst the Roman army, a little before the destruction ofJerusalem. Cahnefs Preface sur Jonas, and his Dictionary,under the word. B. § Jonah i. 3. ** Joppa is a seaport town in Palestine, upon theMediterranean, and was formerly the only port which theJews had upon that coast, whither all the materials thatwere sent from Tyre, towards the building of Solomon'stemple, were brought and landed. The town itself isvery ancient; for profane authors reckon it was builtbefore the flood, and derives the name of it from Joppa,the daughter of Elolas, and the wife of Cepheus, whowas the founder of it. Others arc rather inclined to be­lieve, that it was built by Japhet, and from him had thename of Japho, which was afterwards moulded into Joppa?but is now generally called Jaffa, which comes nearer tothe first appellation. The town is situated in a fine plain,between Jamnia to the south; Caesirea of Palestine to thenorth; and Rama, or Ramula to the east; but, at pre­sent, is in a poor and mean condition; nor is its port byany means good, by reason of the rocks which projectinto the sea. The chief thing for which this place wasfamous, in ancient Pagan history, is the exposition ofAndromeda, the daughter of Cepheus, king of Egypt,who, for her mother's pride, was bound to a rock, inorder to be devoured by a sea-monster, but was delivered