OCR Output 506 ROMAN EMPIRE. were inscribed in the military roll; and above three hun­dred thousand persons of every denomination marchedunder the black standard of the Abbassides. Theyswept the surface of Asia Minor far beyond Tyanaand Ancyra, and invested the Pontic Heraclea,h once aflourishing state, now a paltry town; at that time capa­ble of sustaining in her antique walls a month's siegeagainst the forces of the east. The ruin was complete,the spoil was ample; but if Harun had been conversantwith Grecian story, he would have regretted the statueof Hercules, whose attributes, the club, the bow, thequiver, and the lion's hide, were sculptured in massygold. The progress of desolation by sea and land, fromthe Euxine to the isle of Cyprus, compelled the emperorNicephorus to retract his haughty defiance. In the newtreaty the ruins of Heraclea were left for ever as a lessonand a trophy; and the coin of the tribute was marked withthe image and superscription of Harun and his threesons.' Yet this plurality of lords might contributeto remove the dishonour of the Roman name. After thedeath of their father, the heirs of the caliph were in­volved in civil discord, and the conqueror, the liberal Al-mamon, was sufficiently engaged in the restoration ofdomestic peace and the introduction of foreign science.The Arabs Under the reign of Almamon at Bagdad, ofsubdue the Michael, the Stammerer at Constantinople, theCrete, islands of Crete1 and Sicily were subdued by the A T) R9'? """• Arabs. The former of these conquests is dis­ k M. D.Tournefort, in his coasting voyage from Constantinople to Trebizond,passed anightat Heraclea or Eregri. His eye surveyed the present state, hia read­ing collected the antiquities, of the city. (Voyage du Levant, torn. 3. lettre 16.p. 23—35.) We have a separate history of Heraclea in the fragments of Memnon,which are preserved by Photius. I I he wars of Harun al Rashid against the Roman empire, are related by Theo-phanes, (384, 385. 391.396. 407, 408.) Zonaras, (torn. 3. lib. 15. p. 113. 1*4.)Cedrenus, (p. 477, 478.) EutycMus, (Anual. torn. 2. p. 407.) Elmacin. (Hist. Sa­racen, p. 136. 151,152.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 147.151.) and Abulfrda,(p. 156. 166—168.) k The authors from whom I have learned the most of the ancient and modemstate of Crete, are Belon, (Observations, Sec. c. 3—20. Paris, 1555.) Tournefort,(Voyage du Levant, torn. 1. Irttrc 2 et 3.) and Meursius.(Crcta,inhis works, torn.