OCR Output 238 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. were sent, after a very harsh manner. Forlie shaved the one half of their beards,* andcut off one half of their garments; and senthis answer not in words, but in deeds. Whenthe king of Israel saw this, he had indignationat it; and shewed openly that he would notoverlook this injurious and contumelioustreatment; but would make war with theAmmonites, and would avenge this wickedtreatment of his ambassadors on their king.So that king's intimate friends and com­manders understanding that they had violatedtheir league, and were liable to be punishedfor the same, made preparations for war;they also sent a thousand talents to the Syrianking of Mesopotamia, and endeavoured toprevail with him and fShobach, to assistthem for that pay. Now these kings hadtwenty thousand footmen. They also hiredthe king of the country called Maacah; and afourth king, by name Ishtob, which last hadtwelve thousand armed men. David was under no consternation at thisconfederacy; nor at the forces of the Ammon­ites. But putting his trust in God, becausehe was going to war in a just cause, on ac­count of the injurious treatment he had metwith, he immediately sent Joab,J the captainof his host, against them, with the flowerof his army. Joab pitched his camp byRabbath, the metropolis of the Ammonites;whereupon the enemy came out, and setthemselves in array; not all of them together,but in two bodies. For the auxiliaries wereset in array in the plain by themselves; butthe army of the Ammonites at the gates, over against the Hebrews. When Joab saw this,he opposed one stratagem against another,and chose out the most hardy part of his men,and set them in opposition to the king ofSyria, and the kings that were with him; andgave the other part to his brother Abishai,and bade him set them in opposition to theAmmonites; and said to him, in case heshould see that the Syrians distressed him,and were too hard for him, he should orderhis troops to turn about, and assist him: andhe said, that he himself would do the same tohim, if he saw him in the like distress fromthe Ammonites. So he sent his brother be­fore, and encouraged him to do every thingcourageously and with alacrity, which wouldteach them to be afraid of disgrace, and tofight manfully. And so he dismissed him tofight with the Ammonites, while he fell uponthe Syrians. And though they made a strongopposition for a while, Joab slew many ofthem, and compelled the rest to betake them­selves to flight; which when the Ammonitessaw, and were withal afraid of Abishai, andhis army, they staid no longer; but imitatedtheir auxiliaries, and fled to the city. SoJoab, when he had thus overcome the enemy,returned with great glory to Jerusalem, tothe king. This defeat did not still induce the Ammon­ites to be quiet, nor to own those that weresuperior to them to be so. But they sent to||Chalaman, the king of the Syrians, beyondEuphrates, and hired him for an auxiliary.He had Shobach for the captain of his host,with eighty thousand footmen, and ten thou­ ^ * This was one of the greatest indignities that themalice of man could invent, in those countries where allpeople thought their hair so great an ornament, that somewould rather have submitted to die than part with it.What a foul disgrace and heavy punishment this was ac­counted in ancient times, we may learn from NicholausDamascenus, as mentioned by Stobaeus, (tit. 42.) whosays, that among the Indians, the king commanded thegreatest offenders to be shaven, as the heaviest punish­ment that he could inflict upon them; and to the like pur­pose Plutarch, (in Agesil.) tells us, that whenever asoldier, among the Lacedemonians, was convicted of cow­ardice, he was obliged to go with one part of his upperlip shaved, and the other not. Nay, even at this day, nogreater indignity can be offered to a man of Persia, thanto cause his beard to be shaved; and therefore Taver-nier, in his travels, relates the story, that when the Sophicaused an ambassador of Arenge-zebe's to be used in thismanner, telling him, that he was not worthy to wear abeard, the emperor, (even in the manner as David here did,) most highly resented the affront that was done tohim in the person of his ambassador. And as shavingDavid's ambassadors was deservedly accounted a grievousaffront, so the cutting off half the beard, (which madethem look still more ridiculous,) was a great addition to it,where beards were held in great veneration; and wherelong habits down to the heels were worn, (especially bypersons of distinction,) without any breeches or drawers,the cutting their garments, even to the middle, thereby toexpose their nakedness, was such a brutal and shamelessinsult, as would badly become a man of David's martialspirit, and just sentiments of honour, to have tamelypassed by. Patrick's and Calmet's Commentaries. B. t Josephus took this Shobach, and Ishtob, mentionedpresently, to be the names of princes or captains, and notof countries, as they stand in the present Hebrew andSeptuagint copies. Which is in the right 1 cannot deter­mine. J 2 Sam. x. 7. II About an. 1077.