OCR Output 424 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. acting, reciting, and declaiming—came into vogue.* Greekmen of letters even thus early struck root in the noble societyof Rome, especially in the Scipionic circle, the most promi­nent Greek members of which—the historian Polybius andthe philosopher Panaetius—belong to the history of Romanrather than of Greek development. But even in other lessillustrious circles similar relations occur; we may mentionanother contemporary of Scipio, the philosopher Clitomachus,because his life at the same time presents a vivid view ofthe great mingling of nations at this epoch. A nativeof Carthage, then a disciple of Carneades at Athens andafterwards his successor in his professorship, he held inter­course from Athens with the most cultivated men of Italy,the historian Aulus Albinus and the poet Lucilius, anddedicated on the one hand a scientific work to Lucius Ceu-sorinus the Roman consul who opened the siege of Car­thage, and on the other hand a philosophic consolatorytreatise to his fellow-citizens who were conveyed to Italyas slaves. While Greek literary men of note had hithertotaken up their abode temporarily in Rome as ambassadors,exiles, or otherwise, they now began to settle there; forinstance, the already mentioned Panaetius lived in Scipio'shouse, and the hexameter-maker Archias of Antioch settled102, at Rome in 652 and supported himself respectably by theart of improvising and by epic poems on Roman consulars.Even Gaius Marius, who hardly understood a line of hiscarmen and was altogether as ill adapted as possible for aMaecenas, could not avoid patronizing the artist in verse.While intellectual and literary life thus brought the nobler,if not the purer, elements of the two nations into connec­tion with each other, on the other hand the arrival of troopsof slaves from Asia Minor and Syria and the mercantileimmigration from the Greek and half-Greek East brought thecoarsest strata of Hellenism—largely alloyed with Orientaland generally barbaric ingredients—into contact with theItalian proletariate, and gave to that also a Hellenic colour­ing. The observation of Cicero, that new language and newfashions first make their appearance in maritime towns,probably had a primary reference to the semi-Hellenic * The statement that no "Greek games" were exhibited in Rome before145. 608 (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21) is not accurate : Greek artists (rex"""ai) and athletes186. appeared as early as 568 (Liv. xxxix. 22), and Greek flute players, trage-167. dians, and pugilists in 587 (Pol. xxx. 13).