OCR Output 56 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. and the struggle of the green and blue was supposed torepresent the conflict of the earth and sea. Their re­spective victories announced either a plentiful harvest ora prosperous navigation, and the hostility of the husband­men and mariners was somewhat less absurd than theblind ardour of the Roman people, who devoted theirlives and fortunes to the colour which they had espoused.Such folly was disdained and indulged by the wisestprinces; but the names of Caligula, Nero, Vitellius, Ve-rus, Commodus, Caracalla, and Elagabalus, were enrolledat Rome, in the blue or green factions of the circus: they frequent­ed their stables, applauded their favourites, chastised theirantagonists, and deserved the esteem of the populace, bythe natural or affected imitation of their manners. Thebloody and tumultuous contest continued to disturb thepublic festivity, till the last age of the spectacles of Rome;and Theodoric, from a motive of justice or affection, in­terposed his authority to protect the greens against the•violence of a consul and a patrician, who were passion­ately addicted to the blue faction of the circus."They Ms- Constantinople adopted the follies, though not thestaiitioopio virtues, of ancient Rome; and the same factions whiche»st.the had agitated the circus, raged with redoubled fury in thehippodrome. Under the reign of Anastasius, this po­pular frenzy was inflamed by religious zeal; and thegreens, who had treacherously concealed stones and dag­gers under baskets of fruit, massacred, at a solemn fes­tival, three thousand of their blue adversaries/ Fromthe capital this pestilence was diffused into the provincesand cities of the east, and the sportive distinction of twocolours produced two strong and irreconcilable factions,which shook the foundations of a feeble government/ u SeeOnupliriusPanviniusde LudisCircensibus, lib.I.e. 10,11. the seventeenthAnnotation on Mascou's History of the Germans, and Aleman. ad. c. 7. x Marcellin. in Chron. p. 47. Instead of the vulgar word veneta, he dses the moreequisite terras of cctrulea and ccerealis. Baron ins, (A. D. 501. no. 4—6.) is satisfiedthat the blues were orthodox; but Tillemont is angry at the supposition, and willnot allow any martyrs in a playhouse. (Hist, des Emp. torn. 6. p. 554.) y See Procopins, Persic, lib. 1. c. 24. In describing the vices of the factions andof the government, the public is not more favourable than the secret histoi ian. Aleniaii.