OCR Output 3o6 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIIL and, for the rest, as many as exceeded that number,pay was to be furnished at the race of only three oboli aday. The fame winter, the Athenians now lying at Samoshad been reinforced by the arrival of five and thirty failfrom Athens, under the command of Charminus, andStrombichides, and Euctemon j and they had fartherassembled all their ships from Chios, and others. Aresolution was therefore taken, after assigning each hispeculiar command by lot, to make up against it with atnaval force, and awe Miletus j but to send against Chiosboth a naval and a land force; and this accordinglythey put in execution. For, in fact, Strombichides,and Onomacles, and Euctemon, with a squadronof thirty sail and a body of transports, which had on足board a detachment from the thousand heavy-armedwhich came against Miletus, stood away for Chios, asthis service had fallen to them by lot; but the rest of thecommanders who now remained at Samos, having un足der them seventy-four ships, were quite lords of the sea,and sailed boldly up to awe Miletus. Astyochus, who happened at this juncture to be inChios, selecting hostages as a prevention against treache足ry, thought proper for the present to desist, when heheard of the arrival of the squadron under Theramenes,and that their engagements with ThTaphernes were above three Mi a day. And hence it seems pretty clear, that the complement rfa Fcloponnesian skip of war was two hundred men. ; I hare another proof ac hand, which will confirm what bath already .been said,and seive at the same time to ascertain the number of men on-board a ship of war.In the sixth book Thucydidet fays, the Egesleans brought to Athens sixty talents, asa month's pay for sixty (hips. He fays also, that in the Sicilian expedition the daily pay-ps the Athenian seamen was raised to a drachma a man. Now a talent a month,reckoning thirty days to the month, is two mime a day; and two mirnt are just two-hundred drachmas. Hence, it is plain, the complement of an Athenian thip was twohundred men; and, according to the former computation, that of a Peloponnefiastihip was, as might reasonably be expected, exactly the fame. This is a farther con足firmation that there is a mistake in the printed copies of the original, as was (aidabort; where, instead of three talents, which amount but to 581/. 51.sttrssttg, daouldhave been read thirty talents, amounting in Englisli money to 5812/, 101. much