OCR Output 176 THE DECLINE AND FALL ■will of his sovereign, he showed himself to the soldiers in this unworthy disguise:they resented his ignominy and their own: a shout of rebellion ran through theranks, and the general accepted their oaths of fidelity and vows of revenge. Asecond messenger, who had been commanded to bring the rebel in chains, wastrampled under the feet of an elephant, and manifestoes were diligently circula­ted; exhorting the Persians to assert their freedom against an odious and con­temptible tyrant. The defection was rapid and universal: his loyal slaves weresacrificed to the public fury; the troops deserted to the standard of Bahram; andthe provinces again saluted the deliverer of his country. ■As the passes were faithfully guarded, Hormouz could only compute the numberof his enemies by the testimony of a guilty conscience, and the daily defection ofthose who, in the hour of his distress, avenged their wrongs, or forgot their obli­gations. He proudly displayed the ensigns of royalty; but the city and palace ofModain had already escaped from the hand of the tyrant. Among the victims ofhis cruelty, Bindoes, a Sassanian prince, had been cast into a dungeon; his fetterswere broken by the zeal and courage of a brother; and he stood before the king atthe head of those trusty guards who had been chosen as the ministers of his con­finement, and perhaps of his death. Alarmed by the hasty intrusion and bold re-proaces of the captive, Hormouz looked round, but in vain, for advice or assist­ance; discovered that his strength consisted in the obedience of others, and pa­tiently yielded to the single arm of Bindoes, who dragged him from the throne tothe same dungeon in which he himself had been so lately confined. At the firsttumult, Chosroes, the eldest of the sons of Hormouz, escaped from the city; he■was persauded to return by the pressing and friendly invitation of Bindoes, whopromised to seat him on his father's throne, and who expected to reign under thename of an inexperienced youth. In the just assurance, that his accomplicescould neither forgive nor hope to be forgiven, and that every Persian might betrusted as the judge and enemy of the tyrant, he instituted a public trial withouta copy in the annals of the east. The son of Nushirvan, who had requested toplead in his own defence, was introduced as a criminal into the full assembly ofthe nobles and satraps. (1) He was heard with decent attention as long as he ex­patiated on the advantages of order and obedience, the danger of innovation andthe inevitable discord of those who had encouraged each other to trample on theirlawful and hereditary sovereign. By a pathetic appeal to their humanity, he ex­torted that pity which is seldom refused to the fallen fortunes of a king; and whilethey beheld the abject posture and squalid appearance of the prisoner, his tears,his chains, and the marks of ignominious stripes, it was impossible to forget howrecently they had adored the divine splendour of his diadem and purple. But anangry murmur arose in the assembly as soon as he presumed to vindicate his con­duct, and to applaud the victories of his reign. He defined the duties of a king,and the Persian nobles listened with a smile of contempt; they were fired with in­dignation when he dared to vilify the character of Chosroes; and by the indiscreetoffer of resigning the sceptre to the second of his sons, he subscribed his own con­demnation, and sacrificed the life of his innocent favourite. The mangled bodiesof the boy and his mother were exposed to the people: the eyes of Hormouz werepierced with a hot needle; and the punishment of the father was succeeded by thecoronation of his eldest son. Chosroes had ascended the throne without guilt,and his piety strove to alleviate the misery of the abdicated monarch: from thedungeon he removed Hormouz to an apartment of the palace, supplied with liber­ality the consolations of sensual enjoyment, and patiently endured the furious sal­lies of his resentment and despair. He might despise the resentment of a blindand unpopular tyrant, but the tiara was trembling on his head, till he could sub­vert the power, or acquire the friendship, of the great Bahram, who sternly de­nied the justice of a revolution, in which himself and his soldiers, the true repre­sentatives of Persia, had never been consulted. The offer of a general amnesty,and of the'second rank in his kingdom, was answered by an epistle from Bahram,friend of the gods, conqueror of men, and enemy of tyrants, the satrap of satraps,general of the Persian armies, and a prince adorned with the title of eleven vh>tues.(2) He commands Chosroes, the son of Hormouz, to shun the example and (1) The orientals suppose that Bahrain convened this assembly and proclaimed Chosroes; but Theophylactis, in this instance, moredistinct and credible. (2) Seethe words of Theophylact, lib. iv.c. 7. Bxpxp *ixo; toi; 0m?, vixataK iTisjatnj;, TupxviMi* ijgfipo;, «■*•opiums juytmnw, t«; nipri*,,- afXm Sm*juw, &c. In this answer, Chosroes styles himself m «vxti v*piZf&n;c fi»T» .... o tin; Amncs (the genii; jRiffeti/Mts;, This is genuine oriental bombast.