OCR Output 190 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP.XXXVI. a conqueror, who leads and directs his subjects in theexercise of arms. The characters of Philip the Secondand of Justinian are distinguished by the cold am­bition which delights in war, and declines the dangersof the field. Yet a colossal statue of bronze re­presented the emperor on horseback, preparing tomarch against the Persians in the habit and armourof Achilles. In the great square before the churchof St. Sophia, this monument was raised on a brasscolumn and a stone pedestal of seven steps: and thepillar of Theodosius, which weighed seven thousandfour hundred pounds of silver, was removed from thesame place by the avarice and vanity of Justinian.Future princes were more just or indulgent to hismemory; the elder Andronicus, in the beginning ofthe fourteenth century, repaired and beautified hisequestrian statue: since the fall of the empire, it hasbeen melted into cannon by the victorious Turks*. I shall conclude this chapter with the comets, theearthquakes, and the plague, which astonished orafflicted the age of Justinian. » . Comets,A. D. 531—539. I. In the fifth year of his reign, and in the monthof September, a comet t was seen during twenty daysin the western quarter of the heavens, and which shotits rays into the north. Eight years afterwards, whilethe sun was in Capricorn, another comet appeared tofollow in the Sagittary: the size was gradually in­creasing; the head was in the east, the tail in thewest, and it remained visible above forty days. Thenations, who gazed with astonishment, expected wars * See in the C P. Christiana of Ducange (1. i. c. 24. No. 1.), a chain of originaltestimonies, from Procopius in the vith, to Gyllius in the xvith century. -f- The first comet is mentioned by John Malala (tom. ii. p. 190. 219.) andThcophanes (p. 154); the second by Procopius (Persic 1. ii. c. 4). Yet I stronglysuspect their identity. The paleness of the sun (Vandal. 1. ii. c. 14) is appliedby Theophanes (p. 158) to a different year.