OCR Output CHAP. LI. 417 by the peculiar fame and fertility of Egypt. Anxiousfor the ruin or expulsion of their tyrants, the faithfulnatives devoted their labours to the service of Amrou;some sparks of martial spirit were perhaps rekindled bythe example of their allies; and the sanguine hopes ofMokawkas had fixed his sepulchre in the church of St.John of Alexandria. Eutychius the patriarch observes,that the Saracens fought with the courage of lions; theyrepulsed the frequent and almost daily sallies of thebesieged, and soon assaulted in their turn the walls andtowers of the city. In every attack, the sword, the ban­ner of Amrou, glittered in the van of the Moslems. Ona memorable day, he was betrayed by his imprudentvalour: his followers who had entered the city weredriven back; and the general, with a friend and a slave,remained a prisoner in the hands of the Christians.When Amrou was conducted before the prefect, he re­membered his dignity and forgot his situation: a loftydemeanour, and resolute language, revealed the lieute­nant of the caliph, and the battle-axe of a soldier wasalready raised to strike off the head of the audaciouscaptive. His life was saved by the readiness of his slave,who instantly gave his master a blow on the face, andcommanded him, with an angry tone, to be silent in thepresence of his superiors. The credulous Greek wasdeceived; he listened to the offers of a treaty, and hisprisoners were dismissed in the hope of a more respect­able embassy, till the joyful acclamations of the campannounced the return of their general, and insulted thefolly of the infidels. At length, after a siege of four­teen months," and the loss of three and twenty thousand * Both Eutychius (Annal. torn. 2. p. 319.) and Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 28.)concur in fixing the taking of Alexandria to Friday of the new moon of Moharramof the twentieth year of the Hegira. (December 24. A. D. 640.) In reckoningbackwards fourteen months spent before Alexandria, seven months before Babylon,&c. Amrou might have invaded Egypt about the end of the year 638; but we areassured that he entered the country the twelfth of Bayni, sixth of June. (Murtadi,Merveilles de 1'Egyple, p. 164. Severus, apud Renaudot, p. 162.) The Saracen,and afterward Louis IX. of France, halted at Pelusium, or Damietta, during theseason of the inundation of the Nile. VOL. VI. 2 E