OCR Output B. II. 141 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. sians, exclusively of other Acarnanians. They took also bystorm Astacus, of which Evarchus was tyrant, whom theyforced to fly away, and added the town to their own associa­tion. Sailing from hence to the island Cephallene, they re­duced it without a battle. Cephallene lies towards Acarna-nia and Leucas, and hath four cities; the Pallensians, Cra-nians, Sampans, Pronaeans. Not long after this the fleetsailed back to Athens. In the autumn of this summer, the Athenians with alltheir forces, citizens and sojourners, made an incursion intothe territories of Megara, under the command of Pericles the son of Xantippus. Those also who had been cruizing about Peloponnesus in the fleet of one hundred sail (forthey were now at iEgina), finding, upon their return, thatall their fellow-citizens were marched in the general expe­dition against Megara, followed them with the fleet andcame up to them. By this means, the army of the Athe­nians became the largest they had ever at any time got to­gether, the city being now in its most flourishing state, and asyet uninfected with the plague: For there were of Atheniancitizens only no less than ten thousand heavy-armed, exclu­sive of the three thousand who were now at Potidaea: Thesojourners of Athens who marched out along with them,were not fewer than three thousand heavy-armed: They hadbesides a very large number of light-armed soldiers. Theylaid waste the greatest part of the country, and then returnedto Athens. Every succeeding year of the war the Atheniansconstantly repeated these incursions into the territory ofMegara, sometimes with their cavalry, and sometimes withall their united force, till at last they made themselves mas­ters of Nisaea. In the close also of the Summer, Atalante, an island lyingnear the Locrians of Opus, till now uninhabited, was forti­fied and garrisoned by the Athenians, to prevent the piratesof Opus, and other parts of Locris, from annoying Eubcra. Vol. I. 2 I