OCR Output JIKGARA. 315 MEGARA. river, yet, on examining the ground near it, theevidence is convincing that its present course doescross their site, as, at a short distance from it, on theMegarian side, their foundations may be traced in adirection transverse to the course of the river, andtowards the castellated hill before mentioned. Thedry watercourse on the western side of this isolatedhill can be traced to within two or three hundredyards of the eastern one; and having no communi­cation with any other mountain stream, it may notbe unreasonable to suppose that formerly the riversplit there into two branches or*mouths. This hillwould then have been an island, as Thucydides callsMinoa." The subsequent deposit of earth broughtdown by the above mentioned stream, would havojoined the hill to the mainland. The accompanying map and drawing are takenfrom Lieut. Spratt's. MKGA1LA. TLAN OF THE NEIOHUOUHHOOD OF AlEGAKA. 3. Ancient mole. A. \ i-■ Mfltolaos. bed winds round the back of the hill, leaving only aranw neck of elevated ground between it and thatan the west side: and it is, therefore, clear, thatwhen the» two river* bad communication with thekea, the intermediate neck of land, with this bill,would have been a peninsula, or promontory. Thesetwo river beds were once the only outlets of theniountain streams which issue from the valleys onl lie north side of Mont Geraneia; for the ancientcourse of the eastern bed, although now plougheduier and cultivated, can be traced through thei'..: j. to the northward, as far as its junction withthat river, whose torrent at present flows in aneasterly direction towards the shallow bay of Tikh>>,crossing the site of the Long Walls which connectedMegan with Nisaea and Minoa, and losing them-•elres in the swamps bordering that bay. Althoughvestiges of the walls are not found in the bed of the MIXOA. NISAEA. A *'■ ■ r.vB Ni*aea~C. Min. a. 1. Utaud formerly supposed to be Megara. X. i. - , ) peninsula. If tlii* hill is the site of Minoa, the town of Nisaeao ■ ■*. have been near it : and LieuL Spratt dis-onered many vestiges of an ancient site on theeastern sida of the hill, between the sea and a lowrack which stands in the plain a short distance totoe northward. "Among these remains are fournail heaps of ruins, with massive foundations, in«* of which there axe three broken shafts of small ft. Agios Georgia*, 6 Promontory of Tikho. 7. S;ilamis. columns erect, and wanting apparently only thefourth to complete the original number. Probablythey were monuments or temples ; and two Greekchurches, which are now in ruins, but standing ontwo ancient foundations, wilt not be unfavourable tothe supposition. Another church, Agios Nikolaos,which is perfect, also occupies the site of an anointbuilding, but it sUnds nearer to the sea." Lieut.