OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 411 importance are placed beyond doubt by their results—themurder of the praetor by a band of creditors (P. 258), theattempt to eject from the senate all the senators not free ofdebt (P. 259), the renewal of the maximum of interest bySulla (P. 267), the annulling of 75 per cent, of all debtsby the revolutionary party (P. 325). The consequence of this Miiture ofsystem was naturally general impoverishment and depopula- the Dations.tion in the provinces, whereas the parasitic population ofmigratory or temporarily settled Italians was everywhere onthe increase. In Asia Minor 80,000 men of Italian origin Italiansare said to have perished in one day ( P. 294). How numerous abroad,they were in Delos, is evident from the tombstones stillextant on the island and from the statement that ^0,000foreigners, mostly Italian merchants, were put to deaththere by command of Mithradates (P. 297). In Africa theItalians were so many, that even the Numidian city ofCirta was chiefly defended by them against Jugurtha (P. 147).Gaul too, it is said, was filled with Roman merchants; inthe case of Spain alone—perhaps not accidentally—no state­ments of this sort are found. In Italy itself on the otherhand the condition of the free population at this epoch hadon the whole beyond doubt retrograded. To this resultcertainly the civil wars essentially contributed, which, accord­ing to statements of a general kind and but little reliable,are alleged to have swept away frum 100,000 to 150,000 ofthe Roman burgesses and 300,000 of the Italian populationgenerally; but still worse was the effect of the economic ruinof the middle class and of the boundless extent of the mercan­tile emigration, which induced a great portion of the Italianyouth to spend their most vigorous years abroad. A com- Foreignerspensation of very dubious value was afforded by the free in Italy,parasitic Hellenico-Oriental population, which sojourned inthe capital as diplomatic agents for kings or communities,as physicians, schoolmasters, priests, servants, parasites,and in the myriad employments of sharpers and swindlers, oras traders and mariners frequented especially Ostia, Pu-teoli, and Brundisium. Still more hazardous was the dis­proportionate increase of the multitude of slaves in thepeninsula. The Italian burgesses by the census of 084 Italian [70.numbered 910.000 men capable of bearing arms, to which »lavei.number, in order to obtain the amount of the free popula­tion in the peninsula, those accidentally passed over in thecensus, the Latins in the district between the Alps aud