OCR Output 274 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in those things wherein he excelled. WhenSolomon heard this from God, he leaped outof his bed; and when he had worshipped himhe returned to Jerusalem; and after he hadoffered great sacrifices before the tabernacle,he feasted all his own family.* In those days a cause came before him injudgment, which it was very difficult to findany end of. And I think it necessary to ex­plain the fact about which the contest was,that such as peruse my writings may knowwhat difficult cause Solomon was to deter­mine; and those that are concerned in suchmatters may take this sagacity of the king'sfor a pattern, that they may the more easilygive sentence about such questions. Therewere two womervt who were harlots in thecourse of their lives, that came to him; ofwhom she that seemed to be injured beganto speak first, and said, "O king! I and thisother woman dwell together in one room.Now it came to pass, that we both bore a sonat the same hour of the same day, and on thethird day this woman overlaid her son, andkilled it; and then took my son out of mybosom, and removed him to herself; and as Iwas asleep, she laid her dead son in my arms.Now when, in the morning, I was desirousto give the breast to the child, I did not findmy own; but saw this woman's dead child * 1 Kings iii. 15. t These two women are said in the text to be harlots;but the Hebrew word, as we took notice in the case ofRahab, may equally signify a hostess, or one who kept ahouse of public entertainment; and that it is so to be takenhere we have these reasons to presume: that as all publicprostitution was severely forbidden by the law, Deut. xxiii.17. women of this infamous character durst not have pre­sented themselves before so just and so wise a king: thatwomen of this lewd behaviour seldom do become mothersof children, and when they chance to have any, are notso solicitous for their preservation, but rather rejoicewhen they have got rid of them. There is no reason tosuppose then, that these women were common harlots;and yet it is generally thought, that they were both un­married persons, and guilty of fornication, because nomention is made of their husbands, whose office it was, ifthey had any, to contest the matter for their wives. Pool'sAnnotations, and Calmtfs Commentary. B. I Solomon knew at once that the only sign that woulddiscover the truth, would be her affection, and compas­sion, and tenderness for her child; and therefore in orderto distinguish between the two, his business was to maketrial of this; and if we suppose, that when he commandedthe child to be divided, he spake with a sedate counte­nance, and seeming earnestness, as the true mother's pe­tition to the king makes it apparent that he did, then we lying by me; for I examined it attentively,and found it so to be. Hence it was that Idemanded my son; and when 1 could notobtain him, I have recourse, my lord, to thyassistance. For since we were alone, andthere was nobody there that could convicther, or affright her, she cares for nothing;but perseveres in an obstinate denial of thefact. When this woman had spoken, the kingasked the other, what she had to say in con­tradiction to that story? And when she haddenied that she had done what was chargedupon her, and said that it was her child thatwas living, and that it was her antagonist'schild that was dead; and when no one coulddevise what judgment could be given, andthe whole court were blind in their under­standing, and could not tell how to find outthis riddle; the king invented the followingmethod of discovering it. He bade thembring in both the dead and the living child;and commanded one of his guards to fetch asword, and to cut both the children into twopieces, that each of the women might havehalf the living and half the dead child. Here­upon all the people privately laughed at theking, as no more than a youth. But in themean time the real mother of the living childcried out,J that he should not do so, but de-may suppose farther, not only the two women, but allthe people present, with horror and admiration, expectingthe execution of the thing; which, when it ended in sojust a decision, quite contrary to what they looked for,raised joy in every breast, and gave a more advantageouscommendation to the judge: and yet Abarbinel, the Jewishcommentator, thinks, that all this was no great proof ofSolomon's extraordinary wisdom, nor could it beget that ,fear or reverence which the text says, 1 Kings iii. 28. *it procured to his person. His opinion therefore is, thatSolomon made a discovery of the truth antecedent to thisexperiment, that by observing the countenance, the man­ner of speech, and all the motions of the women, he dis­cerned the secret of their heart, and penetrated to thebottom of the business; and that his commanding the childto be divided afterwards, was only to notify to the company,what he before had discovered. However this be, it maynot be improper, upon this occasion, to mention an instanceor two out of profane history, of a singular address, thoughmuch inferior to this, in discovering such secrets as seemedto be past finding out. To this purpose, Suetonius, inhis life of Claudian, chap. 15, tell us, how that emperordiscovered a woman to be the mother of a young man,whom she would not own for her son, by commanding herto be married to him; for the horror of committing incestobliged her to declare the truth; and, in like manner,Diodorus Siculus relates, how Ariopharnes, king of the