OCR Output 4G [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. have slain their own brother; by which actthe father must be treated unjustly in theson's slaughter, and the mother* also be inperplexity while she laments that her son istaken away from her; and this not in a naturalway. He, therefore, intreated them to havea regard to their own consciences, and wiselyto consider what mischief would befal themupon the death of so good a child, and theiryoungest brother; and they would also fearGod, who was already both a spectator, anda witness of the designs they had againsttheir brother; that he would love them if theyabstained from this act, and yielded to re­pentance and amendment. But in case theyproceeded to do the fact, all sorts of punish­ments would overtake them from God; sincethey polluted his providence, which wasevery where present, and which did not over­look what was done either in deserts or incities. For wherever a man is, there oughthe to suppose that God is also. He told themfarther, that their consciences would be theirenemies if they attempted to go through sowicked an enterprise: which they never canavoid, whether it be a good conscience, orwhether it be such a one as they will havewithin them when once they have killed theirbrother. He also added, that it was not arighteous thing to kill a brother, though hehad injured them; that it was a good thing toforget the actions of such near friends, evenin things wherein they might seem to haveoffended; but that they were going to killJoseph, who had been guilty of nothing thatwas ill towards them; in whose case the in­firmity of his tender years should ratherprocure him mercy, and induce them to unitein the care of his preservation. He likewiseobserved, that the cause of killing him madethe act itself much worse, while they deter­mined to take him off out of envy at his futureprosperity, an equal share of which theywould naturally partake while he enjoyed it;since they were to him not strangers, but thenearest relations; for they might reckon uponwhat God bestowed upon Joseph as theirown; and that it was fit for them to believe, that the anger of God would for this causebe more severe upon them if they slew himwho was judged by God to be worthy of thatprosperity which was to be hoped for; andwhile by murdering him, they made it impos­sible for God to bestow it upon him. Reuben said these, and many other things,and likewise used intreaties to divert themfrom the murder of their brother; but whenhe saw that his discourse had not mollifiedthem at all, and that they prepared to do thefact, he advised them to alleviate the wicked­ness they were going about in a manner oftaking Joseph off; for, as he had exhortedthem first when they were going to revengethemselves, to be dissuaded from doing it; sosince the sentence for killing their brotherhad prevailed, he said that they would not beso grossly guilty, if they would be persuadedto follow his present advice, which would in­clude what they were so eager about, butwas not so very bad, but, in the distress theywere in, of a lighter nature. He begged ofthem, therefore, not to kill their brother withtheir own hands, but to cast him into the pitthat was hard by, and so to let him die, bywhich they would gain so much, that theywould not defile their own hands with hisblood. To this the young men readily agreed;so Reuben took the lad, and tied him to acord, and let him down gently into the pit,for it had no water in it; and when he haddone this, he went his way to seek for suchpasturage as was proper for feeding theirflocks. But Judas, being one of Jacob's sons also,seeing some Arabians, of the posterity ofIshmael, carrying spices and Syrian waresout of the land of Gilead to the Egyptiansafter Reuben was gone, advised his brethrento draw Joseph out of the pit, and sell himto the Arabians, for if he should die amongstrangers, a great way off. they should befreed from this barbarous action. This, there­fore, was resolved on; so they drew Josephup out of the pit, and sold him to the mer­chants for twenty pounds.f He was nowseventeen years old; but Reuben coming in * We may here observe, that in correspondence toJoseph's second dream, which implied that his mother,who was then alive as well as his father, should come andbow down to him, Josephus represents her here as stillalive after she was dead, for the decorum of the dream that foretold it, as the interpretation of that dream doesalso in all our copies, Gen. xxxvii. t The LXXII. have 20 pieces of gold; the testamentof God, 30; the Heb. and Samar. 20 of silver; the vulgarLatin 30. What was the true number and true sum, can­not therefore now tv% known