OCR Output NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixvii ^stricter and a milder sect; and there is some rea­son to conjecture, that the family of Jesus Christremained members, at least, of the latter and moremoderate party. [22] Some writers have been pleased to create anEbion, the imaginary author of their sect and name.Bar we can more safety rely on the learned Eusebiusthan on the vehement Tertuiliaa, or the credulousEpipbanius. [23] See the very curious Dialogue of JustinMartyr with the Jew Tryphon. The conferencebetween them was held at Ephesas, in the reign ofAntoninus Pius, and about twenty years after thereturn of the church of Pella to Jerusalem. For thisdate consult the accurate note of riilemont. Me-moires Ecclesiasliques, torn. ii. p. 511* [24}Of all the fy stems of Christianity, that of Abys­sinia is the only one which still adheres to the Mosaicrites (Geddes's Church History of Æthiopia, and Dis­sertations de le Grand, fur la Relation du P. Lobo).The eunuch of the queen Candace might suggestsome suspicions; but as we are assured (Socrates, i.19. Sozomen, ii. 24. Ludolphus, p. 281.J thatthe Æthiopians were not converted till the fourthcentury; it is more reasonable to believe, that theyrespected the Sabbath, and distinguished the forbiddenmeats, in imitation of the Jews, who in a very earlyperiod, were seated on both sides of the Red Sea.Circumcision had been practised by the most ancientÆthiopians, from motives of health and cleanliness,which seem to be explained in the Recherches Phi-losophiques fur les Americains, torn. ii. p. 117. [2;] fieausobre, Histoire du Manicheifme, 1. i.c. 3. has fiated their objections, particularly those ofFaustus, the adversary of Augustin, with the mostlearned impartiality. [26] Apud ipsos fides obstinata, mifericordia inpromptu: adversus omnes alios hostile odium.Tacit. Hist. v. 4. Surety Tacitus had seen theJews with too favourable an e/e. The perusal ofJoseph us must have destroyed the antithesis. [27] Dr. Burnet (Archæologia, 1. ii. c. 7.) hasdiscussed the first chapters of Genesis with too muchwit and freedom. [28] The milder Gnostics considered Jehovah, theCreator, as a Being of a mixed nature between Godand the Dæmon. Others confounded him with theevil principle. [29] SeeBeausobre, Hist, du Manicheifme, 1. i. c. 4.Origen and St. Augustin were among the Allegorilt*. [30] Hegesippas, ap. Euseb. I. iii. 32. iv. 22.Clemens Alexandrin. Stromat. vii. 17. [31] In the account of the Gnostics of the secondand third centuries, Mofheim is ingenious and can­did ; Le Clerc, dull, but exact; Beaufobre almostalways an apologist; and it is much to be feared,that the primitive fathers are very frequently calum­niators. [32] See the catalogues of Irenasus and Epipha-nius. It must indeed be allowed, that those writerswere inclined to multiply the number of sects whichopposed the unity of the church. [33] Eusebius, 1. iv. a. 15. See in Bayle, in thearticle of Marciou, a curious detail of a dispute onthat subject. It mould seem that some of the Gnos­tics (the Basilidians) declined, and even refusedthe honour of martyrdom. Their reasons weresingular and abstruse. See Moiheim, p. 359. [34] See a very remarkable passage of Origen(Proem, ad Lucam). That indefatigable writer, whohad consumed his life in the study of the scriptures,relies for their authenticity on the inspired authorityof the church. It was impossible that the Gnosticscould receive our present gospels, many parts ofwhich (particularly in the resurrection of Christ)are directly, and as it might seem designedly, pointedagainst their favourite tenets. It is therefore some­what singular that Ignatius (Epist. ad Smyrn. Patr.Apostol. torn. ii. p. 34.) should chuse to employ avague and doubtful tradition, instead of quoting thecertain testimony of the evangelists. [35] Habent apes favos; habent ecclesias etMarcionitæ, is the strong expression of Tertullian,which I am obliged to quote from memory. In thetime of Epipnanius (advers. Hareses, p. 302.) theMaicidnir.es were very numerous in Italy, Syria,Egypt> Arabia, and Persia. [36] Augustin is a memorable instance of thisgradual progress from reason to faith. He was,during several years, engaged in the Manichæan secti [37] The unanimous sentiment of the primitivechurch is very clearly explained by Justin Martyr.Apolog. Major, by Athenagoras Lcgat. c. 2z, &c.and by Lactantius, Institut. Divin. ii. 14—19. i 2 [37] Ter-