OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. that of a wild cat. While the nation trembled, whileHormouz disguised his terror by the name of suspicion,and his servants concealed their disloyalty under themask of fear, Bahram alone displayed his undauntedcourage and apparent fidelity: and as soon as he foundthat no more than twelve thousand soldiers would followhim against the enemy, he prudently declared, that tothis fatal number, heaven had reserved the honours ofthe triumph. The steep and narrow descent of the PuleRudbarm or Hyrcanian rock, is the only pass throughwhich an army can penetrate into the territory of Rei andthe plains of Media. From the commanding heights,a band of resolute men might overwhelm with stonesand darts the myriads of the Turkish host: their em­peror and his son were transpierced with arrows; andthe fugitives were left, without council or provisions, tothe revenge of an injured people. The patriotism of thePersian general was stimulated by his affection for thecity of his forefathers; in the hour of victory every pea­sant became a soldier, and every soldier a hero; andtheir ardour was kindled by the gorgeous spectacle ofbeds, and thrones, and tables of massy gold, the spoilsof Asia, and the luxury of the hostile camp. A princeof a less malignant temper could not easily have forgot­ten his benefactor, and the secret hatred of Hormouzwas envenomed by a malicious report, that Bahram hadprivately retained the most precious fruits of his Turkishvictory. But the approach of a Roman army on theside of the Araxes compelled the implacable tyrant tosmile and to applaud; and the toils of Bahram were re­warded with the permission of encountering a new ene­my, by their skill and discipline more formidable than aScythian multitude. Elated by his recent success, hedespatched a herald with a bold defiance to the camp ofthe Romans, requesting them to fix a day of battle, and ■ See an accurate description of this mountain by Olearios, (Voyage en Perse,p. 997, 99B.) who ascended it with much difficulty and danger in his return from Is­pahan to the Caspian sea.