OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. that period, he hoped that the wounds of civil discord wouldbe completely healed, and that the republic, restored to its pristinehealth and vigour, would no longer require the dangerous inter­position of so extraordinary a magistrate. The memory of thiscomedy, repeated several times during the life of Augustus, waspreserved to the last ages of the empire, by the peculiar pomp withwhich the perpetual monarchs of Rome always solemnized the tenthyears of their reign 6. Without any violation of the principles of the constitution, the Power of the . _ . _ . , Roman ge- general of the Roman armies might receive and exercise an au- neral*.thority almost despotic over the soldiers, the enemies, and thesubjects of the republic. With regard to the soldiers, the jealousyof freedom had, even from the earliest ages of Rome, given way tothe hopes of conquest, and a just fense of military discipline. Thedictator, or cousul, had a right to command the service of theRoman youth; and to punisti an obstinate or cowardly disobedienceby the most severe and ignominious penalties, by striking theoffender out of the list of citizens, by confiscating his property,and by felling his person into slavery '. The most sacred rights offreedom, confirmed by the Porcian and Sempronean laws, weresuspended by the military engagement. In his camp the ge­neral exercised an absolute power of life and death; his juris­diction was not confined by any forms of trial, or rules of pro­ceeding, and the execution of the sentence was immediate and with­out appeal8. The choice of the enemies of Rome was regularlydecided by the legislative authority. On the most important occa­sions, peace and war were seriously debated in the senate, andsolemnly ratified by the people. But when the arms of the legionswere carried. to a.great distance from Italy, the generals assumed theliberty of directing them against whatever people, and in what­ever manner, they judged most advantageous for the public service.It was from the success, not from the justice of their enterprises, that