OCR Output 506 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. had four sons, Phasael; Herod, who was af­terward made king; Joseph, and Pheroras;and a daughter named Salome. This Anti-pater cultivated also a friendship and mutualkindness with other potentates: but espe­cially with the king of Arabia, to whom hecommitted his children, while he foughtagainst Aristobulus. So Cassius removed hiscamp, and marched to Euphrates, to meetthose that were coming to attack him; as hathbeen related by others. But some time* afterward Caesar, when hehad taken Rome, and after Pompey and thesenate were fled beyond the Ionian Sea, freedAristobulus from his bonds; and resolved tosend him into Syria, and delivered two legionsto him, that he might set matters right, as be­ing a potent man in that country. But Aristo­bulus had no enjoyment of what he hoped forfrom the power that was given him by Caesar:for those of Pompey's party prevented it; anddestroyed him by poison. And those ofCaesar's party buried him. His dead bodyalso lay for a considerable time in honey; tillAntony afterward sent it to Judea; and causedhim to be buried in the royal sepulchre. ButScipio, upon Pompey's sending him to slayAlexander, the son of Aristobulus, becausethe young man was accused of what offenceshe had been guilty of at first against the Ro­mans, cut off" his head. And thus did he dieat Antioch. But Ptolemy, the son of Menneus,who was the ruler of Chalcis, under mountLibanus, took his brethren to him, and senthis son Philippion to Ascalon, to Aristobulus'swife, and desired her to send back with himher son Antigonus, and her daughters. Theone of which, whose name was Alexandra,Philippion fell in love with, and married:though afterward his father slew him, andmarried Alexandra, and continued to takecare of her brethren. CHAP. VIII. OF THE ASSISTANCE WHICH THE JEWS GAVE TO CESAR IKHIS BXPEDITION AGAINST EGYPT; THE GLORIOUS ACTIONSOF ANTIPATER, AND HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH CESAR; ANDTHE HONOURS WHICH THE JEWS RECEIVED FROM THEROMANS AND ATHENIANS. OW after Pompey was dead,f Antipater,who managed the Jewish affairs, became N * An. 49.t An. 48. very useful to Caesar, when he made waragainst Egypt; and that by the order of Hyr-canus. For when Mithridates of Pergamuswas bringing his auxiliaries, and was not ableto continue his march through Pelusium, butobliged to stay at Ascalon, Antipater came tohim, conducting three thousand armed Jews.He had also taken care the principal men ofthe Arabians should come to his assistance.And on his account it was, that all the Syriansassisted him also; as not willing to appearbehind-hand in their alacrity for Caesar: viz.Jamblicus the ruler, and Ptolemy his son; andTholomy, the son of Sohemus, who dwelt atmount Libanus; and almost all the Jcities.So Mithridates marched out of Syria, andcame to Pelusium. And when its inhabitantswould not. admit him, he besieged the city.Now Antipater signalized himself here; andwas the first who plucked down a part of thewall, and so opened a way to the rest, wherebythey might enter the city: and by this meansPelusium was taken. But it happened thatthe Egyptian Jews, who dwelt in the countrycalled Onion, would not let Antipater andMithridates, with their soldiers, pass to Caesar.But Antipater persuaded them to come overto their party, because he was of the samepeople with them; and that chiefly by shewingthem the epistles of Hyrcanus the high-priest;wherein he exhorted them to cultivate friend­ship with Caesar. And accordingly when theysaw Antipater and the high-priest of the samesentiments, they did as they were desired.And when the Jews about Memphis heardthat these Jews had come over to Caesar, theyalso invited Mithridates to come to them. Sohe came and received them also into his army.When Mithridates had gone over all theDelta, as the place is called, he came to apitched battle with the enemy, near a placecalled the Jewish camp. Now Mithridateshad the right wing, and Antipater the left.And when it came to an engagement, thatwing where Mithridates was gave way, andwas likely to suffer extremely; unless Anti­pater had come running to him with his ownsoldiers, along the shore; when he had al­ready defeated the enemy that opposed him.So he delivered Mithridates, and put thoseEgyptians who had been too hard for him to I Free cities.