OCR Output Ot THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 69 hiid threatened her life. Photius was more resolved to punish, and less promptto pardon: he flew to Ephesus; extorted from a trusty eunuch of his mother thefull confession of her guilt; arrested Theodosius and his treasures in the church ofSt. John the apostle, and concealed his captives, whose execution was only de­layed, in a secure and sequestered fortress of Cilicia. Such a daring outrage againstpublic justice could not pass with impunity; and the cause of Antonina was espousedby the empress, whose favour she had deserved by the recent services of the dis­grace of a prefect, and the exile and murder of a pope. At the end of the cam­paign, Belisarius was recalled; he complied, as usual, with the imperial mandate.His mind was not prepared for rebellion; his obedience, however adverse to the dic­tates of honour, was consonant to the wishes of his heart; and when he embraced his■wife, at the command, and perhaps in the presence, of the empress, the tender hus­band was disposed to forgive, or to be forgiven. The bounty of Theodora reservedfor her companion a more precious favour. " I have found (she said,) my dearestpatrician, a pearl of inestimable value; it has not yet been viewed by any mortaleye; but the sight and the possession of this jewel are destined for my friend." Assoon as the curiosity and impatience of Antonina were kindled, the door of a bed­chamber was thrown open, and she beheld her lover, whom the diligence of theeunuchs had discovered in his secret prison. Her silent wonder burst into pas­sionate exclamations of gratitude and joy, and she named Theodora her queen, herbenefactress, and her saviour. The monk of Ephesus was nourished in the pa­lace with luxury and ambition; but, instead of assuming, as he was promised, thecommand of the Roman armies, Theodosius expired in the first fatigues of an amo­rous interview. The grief of Antonina could only be assuaged by the sufferings ofher son. A youth of consular rank, and sickly constitution, was punished, withouta trial, like a malefactor and a slave: yet such was the constancy of his mind, thatPhotius sustained the tortures of the scourge and the rack, without violating thefaith which he had sworn to Belisarius. After this fruitless cruelty, the son of An­tonina, while his mother feasted with the empress, was buried in her subterraneousprisons, which admitted not the distinction of night and day. He twice escapedto the venerable sanctuaries of Constantinople, the churches of St. Sophia and ofthe Virgin: but his tyrants were as insensible of religion as of pity; and the helplessyouth, amidst the clamours of the clergy and people, was twice dragged from thealtar to the dungeon. His third attempt was more successful. At the end of threeyears, the prophet Zacharia, or some mortal friend, indicated the means of an es­cape; he eluded the spies and guards of the empress, reached the holy sepulchreof Jerusalem, embraced the profession of a monk; and the abbot Photius was em­ployed, after the death of Justinian, to reconcile and regulate the churches of Egypt.The son of Antonina suffered all that an enemy can inflict: her patient husbandimposed on himself the more exquisite misery of violating his promise and desert­ing his friend. In the succeeding campaign, Belisarius was again sent against the Persians; hesaved the east, but he oftended Theodora, and perhaps the emperor himself. Themalady of Justinian had countenanced the rumour of his death: and the Roman ge^-neral, on the supposition of that probable event, spoke the free language of a citizenand a soldier. His colleague Buzes, who concurred in the same sentiments, lost his/rank, his liberty, and his health, by the persecution of the empress: but the dis­grace o? Belisarius was alleviated by the dignity of his own character, and the in--Huence of his wife, who might wish to humble, but could not desire to ruin, thepartner of her fortunes. Even this removal was coloured by the assurance, thatthe sinking state of Italy would be retrieved by the single presence of the conquer­or. Bjit no sooner had he returned, alone and defenceless, than a hostile commis--sion was sent to the east, to seize his treasures and criminate his actions: the guardsand veterans, who followed his private banner, were distributed among the chiefsof the army, and even the eunuchs presumed to cast lots for the partition of hismartial domestics. When he passed with a small and sordid retinue through thestreets of Constantinople, his forlorn appearance extited the amazement and com­passion of the people. Justinian and Theodora received him with cold ingratitude;the servile crowd, with insolence and contempt; and in the evening he retired withtrembling steps to his deserted palace. An indisposition, feigned or real, had con^fined Antonina to her apartment; and she walked disdainfully silent in the adjacentportico, while Belisarius threw himself on his bed, and expected, in an agony ofgrief and terror, the death which he had so often braved under the walls of Rome.Long after sunset a messenger was announced from the empress; he opened with