OCR Output Jl. IV. YEAR VIII- BEFORE CHRIST 424. 351 Each of these Athenians afterwards, so fast as he got in, ad­vanced along the wall. The Peloponnesian guards, thoughfew in number, made head against them for a time; someof them soon dropped, and then the rest ran speedily off.They were dismayed at such an attack from their enemiesin the night; and, as the treacherous Megareans foughtagainst them, they concluded that all the Megareans werecombined together in betraying them. It happened farther,that an Athenian herald had proclaimed of his own accordthat " such Megareans as were willing to side with the Athe-" nians should throw down their arms." When the Pelopon-nesians heard this, they at once quitted their posts ; and, se­riously believing that all the Megareans had combined tobetray them, fled amain into Nisaea. At the time of morning's dawn, the long walls beingthus surprised, and the Megareans within the city throwninto a tumult, the agents for the Athenians, in concert withall their accomplices in the plot, insisted on the necessityto throw open the city gates, and march out to battle ; sinceit had been agreed between them, that so soon as ever thegates were thus opened, the Athenians should rush in.There was a method to be observed on their side, in orderto be distinguished ; this was to besmear themselves withointment, that they might receive no harm. Their securitywould have been greater, had they opened the gates atonce ; for now four thousand heavy-armed Athenians andsix hundred horsemen, who had marched in the night fromEleusis, according to a prior disposition, were at hand. Butwhilst the accomplices, properly besmeared, stood ready atthe gates, one of their own party, who was privy to thewhole plot, discovereth it to the other Megareans. Thesedrawing up together, came forwards in a body, and denied" the expediency of marching out (since formerly, when" stronger than now, they durst not hazard such a step) or" running such a manifest risk of losing the city: and,♦•should any one affirm the contrary, the point should be