OCR Output CHAP. 31. ROMAN HISTORY. 61 mentation of the horse. It was by a vigorous charge ofthe Roman horse, that the ranks of theSabines were firstbroke; after which, they could neither fight nor fly,without being exposed to a most dreadful slaughter. J~ CHAP. XXXI. . ^r^ *^ Tullus killed by lightning. ^ ./\.PTER .PTER this defeat of theSabines, when the administra­tion of Tullus was in high repute, and the Roman affairsin a most flourishing state, news were brought to court,that it rained stones on mount Alba. As the thing seemedincredible, proper persons were sent -to examine into itmore minutely, who saw them fall thick from heaven,like hailstones driven by the wind in balls along theground. Moreover, they thought they heard a voicethundering from the grove on the summit of the hill,enjoining the Albans, in sacred matters, to observe thefiles of their country, which they had totally overlooked,as if they had abandoned their gods with their country;having either conformed to the religion of Rome, or,being dissatisfied with fortune, had given themselves notrouble about religion, as often happens in such cases.. Upon account of this prodigy, the Romans too, eitherinstigated by the voice thundering from mount Alba, forthat is also alledged; or by the advice of the Aruspices,instituted expiatory sacrifices, which lasted nine days:Certain it is, that the same kind of solemnity is yet inuse; for, whenever the city has been alarmed with anysimilar^jrodigy, nine days have always been employedin such expiations. Not long after, the plague raged among them; which,though it checked their military ardour, Tullus, whobreathed nothing but war, gave them no respite fromarms: pretending, that the youth had a better chancein action abroad, than in idleness at home; till, at length,he was himself seized with a lingering distemper. Thenhis spirits, great as they were, fell so low, and his bodyso weak, that he, who hitherto had thought it a weak­ness unbecoming a king, to mind the ceremonies andobservances of religion, all at once became a slave to the D