OCR Output 136 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. has been too minutely described by the historians of thetimes." nescrip. The extreme length of the Euxine sea,' from Constan-c'ou-hos tinople to the mouth of the Phasis, may be computed asMiogreii" a vova&c °^ nme days, and a measure of seven hundredmiles. From the Iberian Caucasus the most lofty andcraggy mountains of Asia, that river descends with suchoblique vehemence, that, in a short space, it is traversedby one hundred and twenty bridges. Nor does thestream become placid and navigable, till it reaches thetown of Sarapana, five days' journey from the Cyrus,which flows from the same hills, but in a contrary di­rection, to the Caspian lake. The proximity of theserivers has suggested the practice, or at least the idea,of wafting the precious merchandise of India down theOxus, over the Caspian, up the Cyrus, and with thecurrent of the Phasis into the Euxine and Mediterraneanseas. As it successively collects the streams of the plainof Colchos, the Phasis moves with diminished speed,though accumulated weight. At the mouth it is sixtyfathom deep and half a league broad, but a small woodyisland is interposed in the midst of the channel: thewater, so soon as it has deposited an earthly or metallicsediment, floats on the surface of the waves, and is nolonger susceptible of corruption. In a course of onehundred miles, forty of which are navigable for large ves­sels, the Phasis divides the celebrated region of Colchos,™ 8 The Lazic war, the content of Rome and Persia on the Phasis, is tediously spunthrough many a page of Procopius, (Persic, lib. 2. c. 15. 17. 28—30. Gothic lib. 4.c. 7—lfr.) and Agulhias. (lib. 2—4. p. 55—132. 141.) , 'The Periplus, or circumnavigation Of the Euxine sea, was desoribed in Latin bySallust, and in Greek by Arrian.—1. The former work, which no longer exists, hasbeen restored by the lingular diligence of M. de Brosses, first president of the par­liament of Dijon, (Hist, de la Republique Romaine, lorn. 2. lib. 3. p. 199—298.) whoventures to assume the character of the Roman historian. His description of the Euxineis ingeniously formed of all the fragments of the original, and of all the Greeks andLatins whom Sallust might copy, or by whom he might lie copied; and the merit ofthe execution atones for the whimsical design. 2 The Periplus of Arrian is ad­dressed to the emperor Adrian, (in Geograph. Minor. Hudson, torn. 1.) and containswhatever the governor of Pontus had seen, from Trebizoud to Dioscorias; whatever ■be had heard from Dioscurias to the Danube; and whatever he knewfrointho Danube'to Trebizoud. ■ Besides many occasional hints from the poets, historians, &c. of antiquity, we