OCR Output 598 PHILAE. PIHLAE. Pint. h. tt Os!r. p. 359; Diod. i. 22). It was re-ported ton that neither birds hVw over it nor fishapproached its shores. (Senec. Quae&L Nat iv. 2.)These indeed were the traditions of a remote period;since in the time of the Macedonian kings of AegyptPhilae was so much resorted to, partly by pilgrimsto the tomb of Osiris, partly by persona on secularerrands, that the priests petitioned Ptolemy Physcon(b.c. 170—117) to prohibit public functionaries atleast from coming thither and living at their expense.The obelisk on which this petition was engravedw:is brought into England by Mr. Bankes, and itshieroglyphics, compared with those of the Unset taHtone, threw great light npon the Aegyptian pho­netic alphabet. The islands of Philae were not,however, mcrtdy sacerdotal abodes; they were thecentres of commerce also* between Me roe and Mem­phis. For the rapids of the cataracts were at m<<stseasons impracticable, and the commodities ex­changed between Aegypt and Aethiopia were reci­procally landed and re-embarked at Syene andPliilae. The neighbouring granite-quarries attractedhither also a numerous population of miners andstonemasons; and, for the convenience of this traffic,a gallery or road was formed in the roeks along theK bank of the Nile, portions of which are still ex­tant. Philae is also remarkable for the singular♦■fleets of light and shade resulting from its positionnear the tropic of Cancer, As the sun approachesits northern limit the shadows from the projectingcornices and mouldings of the temples sink lowerand lower down the plain surfaces of the walls,until, the sun having reached its highest altitude,the vertical walls are overspread with dark shadows,forming a striking contrast with the fierce lightwhich embatlies all surrounding objects, (liitter,Erdkande, vol. i. p. 680, soq.) The hieroglyphic name of the smaller island isPhilak, or boundary. As their southern frontier, thePharaohs of Aegypt kept there a strong garrison,and, for the same reason, it was a barrack aho forMacedonian anil K oman soldiers. The most, conspicuous feature of both islands itstheir architectural wealth. Monuments of veryvarious eras, extending from lite Pharaohs to theCaesars, occupy nearly their whole area. The prin­cipal structures, however, lie at the S. end of thesmaller island. The most ancient, at present dis­covered, are the remains of a temple of Alitor(Aphrodite), built in the reign of Kectanebus. Theother ruins are for the most part coeval with thePtolemaic times, more especially with the reigns ofPhiladelphia, Kpiphanes, and Philometor (b. c. 282—14")), with many traces of Roman work as recentas Claudius 1. (a. d. 41—54). The chief templein Philae, dedicated to Amnion-Osiris, was a]>-proadied from the river through a double colonnade.In front of the propyla were two colossal lions ingranite, behind which stood a pair of obelisks, each44 feet high. The propyla were pyramidal inform and colossal in dimensions. One stood betweenthe dromos and pronaos, another between the pro-naos and the jtortieo, while a smaller one led intothe sekos or adytum. At each corner of the ady­tum stood a monolithal shrine, the cage of a sacredhawk. Of these shrines one is now in the Louvre,the other in the Museum at Florence. Right andleft of the entrance into the principal court are twosmall temples or rather chapels, one of which, dedi­cated to Athor, is covered with sculptures represent­ing the birth of Ptolemy Philometor, under the figure of the god Ilorus. The story of Osiris ■ ntrt- | where represented on the walls of this temple, sadtwo of its inner chambers are particularly nek is i symbolic imagery. L'j>on the tw<j great propyl* inGreek inscriptions intersected and partiallydestrwiby Aegyptian figures cut across there. Tbe »•script ions belong to the Macedonian era, ud arerfearlier date than the sculptures, which were |r> , bably inserted during that interval of renjucefw ftfthe native religion which followed the erriTKUrcrf i the Greek dynasty in Aegypt (b.c. 30.) Tiimonuments in both islands indeed attest, beyood m}others in the Nile-valley, tbe survival ut patAegyptian art centuries after the last ot tie Pla*raofis had ceased to reign. Great pains bin tMtaken to mutilate the sculptures of this teakThe work of demolition is attributable, in the fitfl ! instance, to the seal of the early Christians, idafterwards to the policy of tbe Iconot lasts, »!* a*1 I ried favour for themselves with the Byzantinee*«tby the destruction of heathen as well as Cnri*«images. The soil of Philae was carefully preja-fdl*the reception of its buildings, — being leveiied »i*ttit was uneven, and supported by ma*onry whew awas crumbling or insecure. For example, the «£-era wall of the Great Temple, and tlie cwre-jiiiN . ing wall of tlie dromos, are supported by vrry ar-jeff 'foundations, built below the level of the w*ierresting on the granite which in this region fonTntiabi d of the Nile. Here and there steps are b?m * , from the wall to facilitate the communicatta: is*tween the temple and the river. At tlie S. extremity of the dromon of the Gral j Temple is a smaller temple, apparently dedicated » | lsis; at least the few columns which remain t - r*.surmounted with the head of that godde* I*portico consists of twelve columns, four in fpffli aJthree deep. Their capitals represent varnis M«and combinations of the palm-branch., the die—and the lotus-flower. These, as well a» the tc4?tures on the columns, the ceilings, and the walit.**painted with the most vivid colours, which. s*n| 'to tlie dryness of the climate, have lost Utile U t>« | original brilliance. Philae was a seat of the Christian reDci« ■well as of the ancient Aegyptian faith. Ruumrf' i Christian church are still visible, aad men tt* •adytum bears traces of baring been made to srrrridifferent eras the purposes of a chapel of tJexru *of Christ. For a more particular acc^uta •architectural remains of Philae we most ret^r tlreader to the works of De'non, Gau, RlwIIku, Sasegger, and Hamilton (Aegyptiacay Tbe Mthas minutely described this is-Uud—the Lccws*ancient Aegypt. Tbe Greek inscriptions f tfc*are transcribed and elucidated by Letroan*. A little W. of Philae lies a larger island, acorfcalled Snem or Scnmut, but now by tbe Ar&2» iHrfIt is very precipitous, and from its mmXpeak affords a tine view of the Nile, trotn rto s«a* I surface S. of the islands to its plumre over the *J>*^of rock that form the First Cataract. Phiiae,and another leaser island, divide the nw atu Itprincipal streams, and N. of them it tarn aturn to the W. and then to tbe X.. where toe ctfOB I begins. Btghe, like Philae, was a bciv i imi ; rocks are inscribed with the n»mee and ottkiAmunoph III., Rameaeat the Great, Psmrruuusij | A pries, and Amasis, together with m«ncr«j i the Macedonian and Human rulers of Aef£~pt> iprincipal ruins consist of the prupyhm *mi 9