OCR Output SPARTA. SPARTA 102". by tins wall there are two terraces,- 3 me of which, amidst the rains of a church, the■- 'b Commission discovered traces of an ancientip>. In this space there are also some ancientn. farmed of three stones, two upright with the'Unrre, buried in the ground; but no conjecture: be farmed of toe building to which they belongedboat excavations. n» bill we have been describing is the largest oftat Spartan heights, and is distinguished by the! which surrounds it, and by containing traces of: iations of some ancient buildings. From it twoillrr hills project towards the Eurotas, parallelar another, and which may be regarded as por-.1 ifthe larger hill. Upon the more southerly of thethere are considerable remains of a circular bricki.r.r, which Leake calls a circus, but Curtius anl>.theatre or odeum (Map, 3). Its walls are 16Lhick, and its diameter only about 100 feet; but asf.'jajs to the Roman period, it was probably suf-3'. for the diminished population of the city attuna. Its entrance was on the side towards the& West of this building is a valley in the formnnrac-ahoe, enclosed by walls of earth, and ap-stiy a stadium, to which its length nearly cor-lawa. ') the north of the hollow way leading from theFt of the Eurotas to Magiila there is a smallkid hilL with a Hat summit, but higher and ■ precipitous than the larger hill to the south ofway. It contains but few traces of ancient tines (Map, B.). At its southern edge there arenmjua* of an aqueduct of later times,b* two hills above mentioned, north and south ofway, formed lite northern half of Sparta,portion of the city occupied the plain be-a the southern hill and the rivulet falling intor. ir.tas, sometimes called the River of Magiila,a» it flows past that village, but more usually»i'ib>, from Trypi, a village in the mountainsa, cr). Two canals, beginning at Magula, runt tiaa plain: upon the southern one (Map, 66),ib. me its junction with the Trypiotiko, standsanal] village of Ptychiko (Map, 6). Betweenranal and the Trypiotiko are some heightswhich the town of New Sparta is now built tf» ). Here are several ancient ruins, amongare some remains of walls at the southern■ r. which look like city-walls. The plainr i tie heights of New Sparta and the hill ofheatrr is covered with corn-fields and gardens,g which are seen fragments of wrought stones,■Cher ancient remains, cropping out of the*L The only remains which make any appear-. .» the ground are those of a quadrangularcr. eallal try the present inhabitants the tomb. j iaa. It is 22 feet broad and 44 feet long, ■ built of ponderous square blocks of stone,s probably an beroum, but cannot have beentab of Leouidas, which we know, from Pausa-flit, 14. § l)i was noar the theatre, whereasatUing ia close to the new town. s plain is separated from the Eurotas bya rangek which extend from the Roman amphitheatrenss to the village of Ptychiko. Between thead thai river is a level tract, which is not muchthan SO yards wide below the Roman amphi-r. bat above and below the latter it swells intoI of s quarter of a mile in breadth. Beyondrer Trypiotiko there are a few traces of thetinrn of ancient buildings near the little village of Kalagonii (Map, 7). Leake mentionsan ancient bridge over the Trypiotiko, about aquarter of a mile NE. of the village of Kalv-gonia. This bridge, which was still in use whenLeake visited the district, is described by him ashaving a rise of about one-third of the span, andconstructed of large single blocks of stone, reach­ing from side to side. The same traveller noticeda part of the ancient causeway remaining at eitherend of the bridge, of the same solid construction.But as this bridge is not noticed by the FrenchCommission, it probably no longer exists, havingbeen destroyed for its materials. (Leake, Morea,vol. i. p. 157, Peloponntsiaca, p. 115.) Such is the site of Sparta, and such is all thatnow remains of this famous city. There cannot beany doubt, however, that many interesting dis­coveries might be made by excavations; and that atany rate the foundations of several ancient buildingsmight be found, especially since the city was neverdestroyed in ancient times. Its present appearancecorresponds wonderfully to the anticipation of Thu-cydides, who remarks (i. 10) that " if the city of theLacedaemonians were deserted, and nothing remainedbut its temples and the foundations of its buildings,men of a distant age would find a difficulty in be­lieving in the existence of its former power, or thatit possessed two of the five divisions of Pelopon­nesus, or that it commanded the whole country, aswell as many allies beyond the peninsula,—so in­ferior was the appearance of the city to its fame,being neither adorned with splendid temples andedifices, nor built in contiguity, but in separatequarters, in the ancient method. Whereas, if Athenswere reduced to a similar state, it would be supposed,from the appearance of the city, that the power hadbeen twice as great as the reality." Compared withthe Acropolis of Athens, which rises proudly fromthe plain, still crowned with the columns of itsglorious temples, the low hills on the Eurotas, andthe shapeless heap of rains, appear perfectly insig­nificant, and present nothing to remind the spectatorof the city that once ruled the Peloponnesus and thegreater part of Greece. The site of Sparta differsfrom that of almost all Grecian cities. Protectedby the lofty ramparts of mountains, with whichnature had surrounded their fertile valley, the Spar­tans were not obliged, like the other Greeks, to livewithin the walls of a city pent up in narrow streets,but continued to dwell in the midst of their planta­tions and gardens, in their original village trim.It was this rural freedom and comfort which formedthe chief charm and beauty of Sparta. It must not, however, be supposed that Sparta wasdestitute of handsome public buildings. Notwith­standing the simplicity of the Spartan habits, theircity became, after the Messcnian wars, one of the chiefscats of poetry and art. The private houses of theSpartans always continued rude and unadorned, inaccordance with a law of Lycurgus, that the dttorsof every house were to be fashioned only with thesaw, and the ceiling with the axe (Plut. I.gc. 13);but this regulation was not intended to discouragearchitecture, but to prevent it from ministering toprivate luxury, and to restrain it to its proper ob­jects, tho buildings for the gods and the state. Thepalace of the kings remained so simple, that its doorsin the time of Agesilaus were said to be those ofthe original building erected by Aristodemus, thofounder of the Spartan monarchy (Xen. Agtt. 8.§ 7); but the temples of the gods were built with 3 U