OCR Output 204 LIVY. or Samnite; and placing himself in the way of hismen, as they pressed in disorder towards the camp,denounced threats to the same purport: ' Whither areyou going, soldiers?' said he; 'here also yon willfind both men and arms ; nor while your consul livesshall you pass the rampart, unless you bring victoryalong with you. Choose therefore which you willprefer, fighting against your own countrymen, or theenemy.' While the consul was thus speaking thecavalry gathered round, with the points of their spearspresented, and ordered the infantry to return to thefight. Not only his own brave spirit, but fortune like足wise aided the consul, for the Samnites did not pushtheir advantage ; so that he had time to wheel roundhis battalions, and to change his front from the camptowards the enemy. The men then began to encourageeach other to return to the battle, while the centurionssnatched the ensigns from the standard-bearers andbore them forward, pointing out to the soldiers theenemy, coming on in a hurry, few in number, and withtheir ranks disordered. At the same time the consul,with his hands lifted up towards heaven, and raisinghis voice so as to be heard at a distance, vowed atemple to Jupiter Stator if the Roman army shouldrally from flight, and renewing the battle, defeat theSamnites. All divisions of the army now united theirefforts to restore the fight ; officers, soldiers, in shortthe whole force, both of cavalry and infantry ; eventhe gods seemed to have looked with favor on the Ro足man causes so speedily was a thorough change effectedin the fortune of the day, the enemy being repulsedfrom the camp, and in a short time driven back to thespot where the battle had commenced. Here theystopped, being obstructed by the heap of baggagelying in their way, where they had thrown it toge足ther ; and then to prevent the plundering of their ef足fects, formed round them a circle of troops. On thisthe infantry assailed them vigorously in front, whilethe cavalry wheeling, fell on their rear ; and beingthus inclosed between the two, they were all either