OCR Output MACEDONIA. 235 MACEDONIA. Alorus, one of the murderers of Alexander, wasrecent, and administered the affairs of the widowedqunn, and those of her children, against Pausanias,a man of the royal lineage and a pretender to thethrone. (IHod. xvi. 2; Aeschin. Fate. Legal, pp. 249,230; Justin, vii. 6.) Iphicrates declared in favourof Eurydice, who would have been forced to yieldthe country to Pausanias, and acted so vigorouslyagainst him as to expel him from Macedonia and■ecure the sceptre to the family of Amyntas. (Corn.Nen. Ipkkrat. 3.) When Philip succeeded hisbrother Perdiccas, slain in battle with the Illyrians,B. c. 360—359, no one could have foreseen thefature conqueror of Chaemneia. and the destroyer ofGrecian liberties. In the very first year of his reign,though only 24 years old, he laid the foundations ofthe fature greatness of a state which was then almostannihilated. His history, together with that of theother Macedonian kings, is given in the Dictionaryof Biography. At his death Macedonia had alreadybecome a compact empire; its boundaries had beenextended into Thrace as far as Perinthus; and theGreek coast and towns belonged to it, while Mace­donian ascendancy was established from the coastsof the Propontis to those of the Ionian sea, and theAmbracian, Messenian, and Saronic gulfs. Theempire of Alexander became a world-dominion. Ma-c*di<nian settlements were planted almost every­where, and Grecian manners diffused over the im-n*nse region extending from the Temple of Ainmonin the Libyan Oasis, and from Alexandria on thewestern Delta of the Nile to the northern Alexandriaoo the Jaxartes, III. IjaUr History till the Fall of the Empire. At the death of Alexander a new Macedoniankingdom arose with the dynasty of Antipater; afterthe murder of the king Philippus III. (Arrhidaeus)and Eurydice by the queen Olympias, Cassander theson of Antipater, after having murdered the kingAlexaniler Aezus, and his mother, ascended thethrone of Macedon ; at his death his three sons, Phi­lip, Antipater, and Alexander, successively occupiedthe thmne, but their reigns were of short duration.I'hilip wa* carried off by sickness, Alexander wasput to death by Demetrius Poliorcetes, and Antipater,*h" bad fled for refuge to Lysimachus, was mur­dered by that prince. When the line of Cassanderbecame extinct, the crown of Macedon was the prizefor which the neighbouring sovereigns struggled, Ly-simachua and Pyrrhus, kings of Thrace anAKpeirus,with Demetrius, who still retained Ajjpfcs andThessaly, in turns, dispossessed each other of thisdbputed throne. Demetrius, however, at last over-can* the other competitors ; and at his death trans­mitted the kingdom to his son Antigonus, and the-hrnastyof the Antigonidae, after many vicissitudes,finally established their power. The three greatirruptions of the Gauls, who made themselves masters*»f the N, parts, and were established in Thrace andl*n*T Macedonia, fell within this period. Antigonus<>:cuLts recovered the throne of desolated Macedonia;and now secured from the irruptions of the Gauls,sad from foreign rivals, directed his policy againstGreece, when the formation of the Aetolian, and yetore important Achaean league, gave rise to entirelynew relations. Antigonus, in the latter part of hisf'ign. had recourse to various means, and more espe-tadly loan alliance with the Aetolians, for the pur*p* si counterpoising the Achaeans. He died inti* eightieth year, and was succeeded by his son Demetrius II., who waged war upon the Aetolians,now, however, supported by the Achaeans ; and triedto suppress the growth of the latter, by favouringthe tyrants of particular cities. The remainder ofthe reign of this prince is little more than a gap inhistory. Demetrius' son, Philip, was passed over,and his brother's son, Antigonus II. sumamed Doson,was laised to the throne. This king was occupiedmost of his time by the events in Greece, when avery remarkable revolution in Sparta, raised up aformidable enemy against the Achaeans; and socompletely altered the relative position of affairs, thatthe Macedonians from having been opponents be­came allies of the Achaeans. Philippus V., a young,warlike, and popular prince, was the first to comeinto collision with Rome, — the war with the im­perial city (b. c. 200—197). suddenly hurled theMacedonian power from its lofty pitch, and by lay­ing the foundation of Roman dominion in the East,worked a change in almost all the political relationsthere, T. Quinctius Klatninius, by offering the magicspell of freedom, stripped Philip of his allies, and thebattle of Cynoscephalae decided everything. Soonafter, the freedom of Greece was solemnly proclaimedat the Isthmian games; but loud ns the Greeks werein their triumph, this measure served only to transferthe supremacy of their country from Macedonia toRome. On the 22nd of June, b. c. 168, the fate ofMacedon wes decided on the field of Pydna by herlast king Perseus. According to the system then pursued at Rome,the conquered kingdom of Macedonia, was not im­mediately converted into a province, but, by thefamous edicts of Amphipolis issued by the authorityof the Roman senate, the year after the conquest,was divided into four districts. By this decree(Liv. xlv. 29), the Macedonians were called free,—each city was to govern itself by magistrates annu­ally chosen, and the Romans were to receive half theamount of tribute formerly paid to the kings, thedistribution and collection of which was probablythe principal business of the councils of the fourregions. None but the people of the extreme fron­tiers towards the barbarians were allowed to defendthemselves by arms, so that the military power wasentirely Roman. In order to break up more effec­tually the national union, no person was allowed tocontract marriage, or to purchase land or buildingsbut within his own region. They were pernntiedto smelt copper and iron, on paying half the taxwhich the kings had received; but the Romansreserved to themselves the right of working themines of gold and silver, and of felling naval timber,as well as the importation of salt, which, as theThird Region only was to have the right of sellingit to the Dardani, was probably made for the profitsof the conquerors on the Thermaic gulf. No wonder,that after such a division, which tore the race inpieces, the Macedonians should compare their seve­rance to the laceration and disjointing of an animal.(Liv. xlv. 30.) This division into four districts did not last longerthan eighteen years, but many tetradraehms of thefirst division of the tetrarchy coined at its capital,Amphipolis, are still extant. B.C. 149 Andriscua,calling himself Philip son of Perseus, reconqueredall Macedonia (Lit. Epit. xlix), but was defeatedand taken in the following year, by Q. Caecilius Me-tellus; after which the Macedonians were made tri­butary (Porphyr. ap. Euseb. Chron. p. 178), andthe country was probably governed by a "praetor,"