OCR Output J38 THE DECLINE AND FALL • * with the sister of Moses, the mother of Jesus, and Fatima, the best beloved of htodaughters. "Was she not old?" said Ayesha, with the insolence of a bloomingbeauty, " has not God given you a better in her place?—No, by God," said Ma­homet, with an effusion of honest gratitude, "there never can be a better! she be­lieved in me, when men despised me; she relieved my wants, when I was poor andpersecuted by the world. "(1) In the largest indulgence of polygamy, the founder of a religion and empiremight aspire to multiply the chances of a numerous posterity and a lineal succes­sion. The hopes of Mahomet were fatally disappointed. The virgin Ayesha, andhis ten widows of mature age and approved fertility, were barren in his potentembraces. The four sons of Cadijah died in their infancy. Mary, his Egyptianconcubine, was endeared to him by the birth of Ibrahim. At the end of fifteenmonths the prophet wept over his grave: but he sustained with firmness the rail­lery of his enemies, and checked the adulation or credulity of the Moslems, bythe assurance that an eclipse of the sun was not occasioned by the death of theinfant. Cadijah had likewise given him four daughters, who were married to themost faithful of his disciples: the three eldest died before their father; but Fatima,who possessed his confidence and love, became the wife of her cousin Ali, and themother of an illustrious progeny. The merit and misfortunes of Ali and his de­scendants will lead me to anticipate, in this place, the series of the Saracen ca­liphs, a title which describes the commanders of the faithful as the vicars and suc­cessors of the apostle of God. (2) The birth, the alliance, the character, of Ali, which exalted him above the restof his countrymen, might justify his claim to the vacant throne of Arabia. Theson of Abu Taleb was, in his own right, the chief of the family of Hashem, andthe hereditary prince or guardian of the city and temple of Mecca. The light ofprophecy was extinct; but the husband of Fatima might expect the inheritanceand blessing of her father: the Arabs had sometimes been patient of a femalereign; and the two grandsons of the prophet had often been fondled in his lap, andshown in his pulpit, as the hope of his age, and the chief of the youth of para­dise. The first of the true believers might aspire to march before them in thisworld and in the next; and if some were of a graver and more rigid cast, the zealand virtue of Ali were never outstripped by any recent proselyte. He united thequalifications of a poet, a soldier; and a saint: his wisdom still breathes in a collec­tion of moral and religious sayings;(3) and every antagonist, in the combats of thetongue, or of the sword, was subdued by his eloquence and valour. From the firsthour of his mission to the last rites of his funeral, the apostle was never forsakenby a generous friend, whom he delighted to name his brother, his vicegerent, andthe faithful Aaron of a second Moses. The son of Abu Taleb was afterward re­proached for neglecting to secure his interest by a solemn declaration of his right,which would have silenced all competition, and sealed his succession by the de­crees of heaven. But the unsuspecting hero confided in himself, the jealousy ofempire, and perhaps the fear of opposition, might suspend the resolutions of Ma­homet; and the bed of sickness was besieged by the artful Ayesha, the daughterof Abubeker, and the enemy of Ali. The silence and death of the prophet restored the liberty of the people; and hiscompanions convened an assembly to deliberate on the choice of a successor. Thehereditary claim and lofty spirit of Ali, were offensive to an aristocracy of elders,desirous of bestowing and resuming the sceptre by a free and frequent election.-the Koreish could never be reconciled to the proud pre-eminence of the line ofHashem; the ancient discord of the tribes was rekindled; the fugitives of Meccaand the auxiliaries of Medina asserted their respective merits: and the rash pro­posal of choosing two independent caliphs would have crushed in their infancy the (1) Abnlfeda in Vit. Moham. p. 12,13.16,17. cum notij Gagnier. (2) This outline of the Arabian history ij drawn from the Bibliotheque Orientale of d'Herbelot; (under thenames of Aboubecre, Omar, Ottoman, Ali, See.) from the Annals of Abulfeda, Abulpharagius. and Elmacin(under the propei- years of the Hrgira,) and especially from Ockley's History of the Saracens (vol. i. p. 1—1».US—122. 229. 249. 363—372. 378—391. and almost the whole of the second volume.) Yet we should welch withcaution the traditions of the hostile sects; a stream which becomes still more muddy as it flows farther from thesource. Sir John Chardtn has too faithfully copied the fables and errors of the modern Persians. (Voyages,torn. 11. p. 235—250, &c.J ' (3) Ockley (at the end of his second volume) has given an English version of one hundred and sixty-ninesentences, which he ascribes, with some hesitation, to Ali, the son of Abu Taleb. His preface is coloured bythe enthusiasm of a translator; yet these sentences delineate a characteristic, though dark, picture of human