OCR Output 44 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. for the movements against the turbulent Dalmatians, andon the other hand for the numerous expeditions against theIllyrian, Celtic, and Thracian tribes settled to the north ofthe Grecian peninsula, which we shall afterwards have toexhibit in their historical connection.Greece. Greece proper had greater occasion than Macedonia to congratulate herself on the favour of the ruling power;and the Philhellenes of Rome were probably of opinionthat the calamitous effects of the war with Perseus weredisappearing, and that the state of things in general was im­proving there. The bitterest abettors of the now dominantparty, Lyciscus the iEtolian, Mnasippus the Boeotian, Chre-matas the Acarnanian, the infamous Epirot Charops whomhonourable Romans forbade even to enter their houses, de­scended one after another to the grave; another generationgrew up, in which the old recollections and the old antago­nisms had faded. The senate thought that the time for general150. forgiveness and oblivion had come, and in 604 released thesurvivors of those Achaean patriots who had been confinedfor seventeen years in Italy, and whose liberation theAchaean diet had never ceased to demand. Neverthelessthey were mistaken. How little the Romans with all theirPhilhellenism had been successful in really harmonizing Hel­lenic patriotism, was nowhere more clearly apparent than inthe attitude of the Greeks towards the Attalids. KingEumenes II. was, as a friend of the Romans, extremelyhated in Greece (ii. 291); but scarcely had a coldness arisenbetween him and the Romans, when he became suddenlypopular in Greece, and the Hellenic votary of hope expectedthe deliverer from a foreign yoke to come now from Perga-mus as formerly from Macedon. Social disorganization moreespecially was visibly on the increase among the petty statesof Hellas now left to themselves. The country becamedesolate not through war and pestilence, but through thedaily increasing disinclination of the higher classes to troublethemselves with wife and children; on the other hand thecriminal or the thoughtless flocked as hitherto chiefly toGreece, to await the recruiting officer there. The com­munities sank into daily deeper debt, and into financial dis­honour and a corresponding want of credit: some cities,more especially Athens and Thebes, resorted in their financialdistress to direct robbery, and plundered the neighbouringcommunities. The internal dissensions in the leagues also—