OCR Output CHAP. LII. 473 inhabitant of the city: but the liberal offer was rejectedwith disdain, and the presumption of Moslemah was ex­alted by the speedy approach and invincible force of thenavies of Egypt and Syria. They are said to haveamounted to eighteen hundred ships: the number be­trays their inconsiderable size; and of the twenty stoutand capacious vessels whose magnitude impeded theirprogress, each was manned with no more than one hun­dred heavy-armed soldiers. This huge armada pro­ceeded on a smooth sea and with a gentle gale, towardsthe mouth of the Bosphorus; the surface of the straitwas overshadowed, in the language of the Greeks, witha moving forest, and the same fatal night had been fixedby the Saracen chief for a general assault by sea andland. To allure the confidence of the enemy, the em­peror had thrown aside the chain that usually guardedthe entrance of the harbour: but while they hesitatedwhether they should seize the opportunity, or apprehendthe snare, the ministers of destruction were at hand. Thefireships of the Greeks were launched against them;the Arabs, their arms, and vessels, were involved in thesame flames; the disorderly fugitives were dashed againsteach other, or overwhelmed in the waves; and I nolonger find a vestige of the fleet, that had threatened toextirpate the Roman name. A still more fatal and irre­parable loss was that of the caliph Soliman, who died ofan indigestion™ in his camp near Kinnisrin, or Chalcis,in Syria, as he was preparing to lead against Constanti­nople the remaining forces of the east. The brother ofMoslemah was succeeded by a kinsman and an enemy:and the throne of an active and able prince was degradedby the useless and pernicious virtues of a bigot. Whilehe started and satisfied the scruples of a blind conscience, '" 'I hi: caliph had emptied two baskets of eggs and of figs, which he swallowedalternately, and the tepast was concluded with marrow and sugar. In one of hispilgrimages to Mecca, Soliman ate, at a single meal, seventy pomegranates, a kid,six fowls, and a huge quantity of the grapes of Tayef. If the bill of fare be cor­rect, we must admire the appetite rather than the luxury of the sovereign of Asia.(Abulfedm, Anna!. Moslem, p. 126.)