OCR Output 230 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLH. Chosroes was easily persuaded to imitate the examplewhich he condemned: but the Persian, ambitious ofmilitary tame, disdained the inactive warfare of a rival,He invades who issued his sanguinary commands from the securea. D/540, station of the Byzantine palace. - • . Whatever might be the provocation of Chosroes, heabused the confidence of treaties; and the just reproachesof dissimulation and falsehood could only be concealedby the lustre of his victories.q The Persian army, whichhad been assembled in the plains of Babylon, prudentlydeclined the strong cities of Mesopotamia, and followedthe western bank of the Euphrates, till the small thoughpopulous town of Dura presumed to arrest the progressof the great king. The gates of Dura, by treachery andsurprise, were burst open ; and as soon as Chosroes hadstained his scymitar with the blood of the inhabitants,he dismissed the ambassador of Justinian to inform hismaster in what place he had left the enemy of the Ro­mans. The conqueror still affected the praise of hu­manity and justice: and as he beheld a noble matronwith her infant rudely dragged along the ground, hesighed, he wept, and implored the divine justice to pu­nish the author of these calamities. Yet the herd oftwelve thousand captives was ransomed for two hundredpounds of gold; the neighbouring bishop of Sergio-polis pledged his faith for the payment; and in thesubsequent year the unfeeling avarice of Chosroes ex­acted the penalty of an obligation which it was ge­nerous to contract, and impossible to discharge. Headvanced into the heart of Syria; but a feeble enemy,who vanished at his approach, disappointed him of thehonour of victory ; and as he could not hope to establishhis dominion, the Persian king displayed in this inroadthe mean and rapacious vices of a robber. Hierapolis, 1 The invasion of Syria, the ruin of Antiocli, &c. are related in a full and regularseries by Procopius. (Persic, lib. 2. c. 5—14.) Small collateral aid can be drawnfrom the orientals : yet not they, but D'Herbelot himself, (p. 6U0.) should blush, whenlie blames them for making Justinian and Nushirvan contemporaries. On the geogra­phy of the seat of war, D'Anville (J'Enphrate el le Tigre) is suflicieat and satisfactory.