OCR Output Chap.]X.J CINNA AND SULLA, 341 necessary to close the city gates; stragglers even broughtaccounts to Ofella that the battle was lost. But on theright wing Marcus Crassus overthrew the enemy and pur­sued him as far as Antemnae; this somewhat relieved theleft wing also, and an hour after sunset it in turn beganto gain ground. The fight continued the whole night andeven on the following morning; it was only the defectionof a division of 3000 men, who immediately turned theirarms against their former comrades, that put an end to thestruggle. Rome was saved. The army of the insurgents,for which there was no retreat, was completely extirpated.The prisoners taken in the battle—between 3000 and 4000 Slaughterin number, including the generals Damasippus, Carrinas, of the Pli'and the severely wounded Pontius—were by Sulla's orders sonels-on the third day after the battle brought to the VillaPublica in the Campus Martius and there massacred to thelast man, so that the clatter of arms and the groans of thedying were distinctly heard in the neighbouring temple ofBellona, where Sulla was just holding a meeting of thesenate. It was a ghastly execution, and it ought not to beexcused; but it is not right to forget that those same menwho perished there had fallen like a band of robbers on thecapital and the burgesses, and, had they found time, wouldhave destroyed them as far as fire and sword can destroy acity and its citizens. With this battle the war was, in the main, at an end. Sieges.The garrison of Praeneste surrendered, when it learned the Praneste.issue of the battle of Rome from the heads of Carrinas andother officers thrown over the walls. The leaders, the con­sul Gaius Marius and the son of Pontius, after having failedin an attempt to escape, fell on each other's swords. Themultitude cherished the hope, in which it was confirmed byCethegus, that the victor would even now have mercy uponthem. But the times of mercy were past. The more un­conditionally Sulla had up to the last moment granted fullpardon to those who came over to him, the more inexorablehe showed himself toward the leaders and communities thathad held out to the end. Of the Praenestine prisoners,12,000 in number, most of the Romans and individualPraenestines as well as the women and children were re­leased, but the Roman senators, almost all the Praenestinesand the whole of the Samnites, were disarmed and slaugh­tered; and the rich city was given up to pillage. It was