OCR Output 106 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK It. injury to the public interest. For, what would havebeen the consequence^ had that commonalty, consistingof herdsmen arid strangers, out-laws from their countries)who under the protection of an inviolable asylum, foundliberty, or at least, impunity, besn set free from the dreadof majesty, and begun to be agitated by the storms oftribunitian fury? What would have been the conse­quence, "had they then begun to engage in quarrels withthe nobles, in a strange city, before the pledges of wivesand children, and an attachment to the soil, which comesnot in an instant, had associated their hearts? Distrac­tions of this nature in a state, not brought to maturity,would certainly have ruined it: whereas a peaceable andge«tle government, fostered and cherished it, and by aproper nourishment, brought it to such strength and per­fection, as already to produce the wholesome fruits ofliberty. But it is to be observed, that the source of liberty isfound rather in the duration of the consular government*which was only for a year, than in the diminution of thepower, which had been invested in the crown. The firstconsuls had all the privileges and ensigns of authority,which belonged to the kings; only it was provided, thatboth consuls should not be attended with the fasces at thesame time, so as they might not appear to be armed withdouble terror. Brutus, who was not more active in recovering liber­ty, than he was steady in maintaining it, was the first,with permission of his colleague, who was attended bythe fasces. Of all the people, who at first were mightyfond of their new acquired liberty, he exacted ait oath,that they never would suffer another to sway the sceptrein Rome, that they might not, upon any after occasion,either affected with the prayers, or corrupted by thelargesses of Tarquin, be prevailed onto recede. Thento add to the influence of the senate, by increasing the * According to Pompohius, ex cansulere, to watch for the publicgood; but according to v'arro and Cicero, ex consubreto ask coun­sel ; because, according to the original institution of consuls, theywere to do nothing without the concurrence of the senate and peo­ple. Hence Tuily calls the office, regium mperium, regia potestas.