OCR Output 322 LUCILIUS BASSUS. [b. VII. 5. When Bassus had settled thescaffairs he marched hastilyto the forest of Jarden, as it is called; for he had heard thata great many of those that had fled from Jerusalem and Ma-cherus formerly were there gotten together. When he was,therefore, come to the place, and understood that the formernews was no mistake, he in the first place surrounded thewhole place with his horsemen, that such of the Jews as hadboldness enough to try to break through might have no waypossible for escaping, by reason of the situation of thesehorsemen; and for the footmen, he ordered them to cut downthe trees that were in the wood whither they were fled. Sothe Jews were under a necessity of performing some gloriousexploit, and of greatly exposing themselves in a battle, sincethey might, perhaps, thereby escape. So they made a generalattack, and with a great shout fell upon those that surroundedthem, who received them with great courage; and so, whilethe one side fought desperately and the others would notyield, the fight was prolonged on that account. But the eventof the battle did not answer the expectations of the assailants;for so it happened, that no more than twelve fell on the Ro­man side, with a few that were wounded; but not one of theJews escaped out of this battle, but they were all killed, be­ing in the whole not fewer in number than three thousand,together with Judas, the son of Jairus, their general, con­cerning whom we have before spoken, that he had been acaptain of a certain band at the siege of Jerusalem, and bygoing down into a certain vault under ground had privatelymade his escape. 6. About the same time it was that Caesar sent a letter toBassus, and to Liberius Maximus, who was the procurator[of Judea,] and gave order that all Judea should be exposedto sale;l for he did not found any city here, but reserved thecountry for himself. However, he assigned a place for eighthundred men only, whom he had dismissed from his army, 1 It is very remarkable that Titus did not people this now desolate countryof Judea, but ordered it to be ail sold; nor, indeed, is it properly peoplednt this day, but lies ready for its old inhabitants, the Jews, at their futurerestoration. See Literal Accomplishment of Prophecies, p. 77.