OCR Output CHAP. 49. ROMAN HISTORY. 87 CHAP. XLIX. "Farquin keeps an armed guard. A. IL C. 220. J[ HEN Tarquin began to shew away in the regal func­tion; his arrogance procured him the sirname of proud;for, he refused to suffer the usual obsequies to be per­formed for his father-in-law, alledging for a reason, that"Romulus himself died without that honour." Theprincipal of the senators, whom he suspected to havebeen in Servius's interest, he put to death; and beingsensible, that the base means lie had made use of to raisehimself to the throne, might become a president thatwould recoil upon hiaiseU, he never appeared without astrong guard. For, indeed, he had no legal pretensionsto the crown, but what were founded in violence and in­justice, having neither obtained the consent of the people,nor the sanction of the senate. Add to this, that as hehad no hopes of gaining the affections of the people, hecould only support himself on the throne from motivesof fear, the influence of which, that he might make asuniversal as possible, in all criminal causes he sat judgein person, admitting neither the assistance nor advice ofany assessor whatever. This furnished him not onlywith an opportunity of butchering and banishing such ashe hated or suspected; but also of confiscating the effectsof those, whom he could charge with no crime, providedhe could enrich himself .with their spoils. Having by these means, in particular, very much re­duced the order of the Fathers, he determined to makeno new creation, that the order thus reduced, might,dwindle into contempt, consequently be the more indif­ferent that nothing was transacted by their means. Hewas the first king, who broke through a rule observed byall his pr«lo:essors£..pf consulting the senate upon everyemergen^y-i All state affairs he managed by domesticcounsels. ^iVar, peace, treaties, alliances, he made withwhomsoever he choosed; and broke when he pleased, byhimself alone,- without the countenance or consent of se­nate, or people! He was at great pains to make himself popular among