OCR Output Chap. V £ IT. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 129 ter, whose name was Nicaso, in marriage to Manasseh, as think­ing this alliance by marriage would be a pledge and security thatthe nation of the Jews should continue their good will to him CHAP. VIII. Concerning Sanballat and Manasseh, and the temple 'winch theybuilt on mount Gerizzim; as also how Alexander made hisentry into the city Jerusalem ,- and "what benefits he bestowed onthe Jews. § 1. ABOUT this time it was that Philip, king of Macedon,was treacherously assaulted and slain at Egae by Pausanias, theson of Cerastes, who was derived from the family of Orestae,and his son Alexander succeeded him in the kingdom, whopassing over the Hellespont, overcame the generals of Darius'army in a battle fought at Granicum. So he marched overLydia, and subdued Ionia, and overran Caria, and fell uponthe places of Pamphylia, as has been related elsewhere. 2. But the elders of Jerusalem being very uneasy that thebrother of Jaddua the high priest, though married to a foreigner,should be a partner with him in the high priesthood, quarrelledwith him ; for they esteemed this man's marriage a step to suchas should be desirous of transgressing about the marriage of[strange] wives, and that this would be the beginning of a mu­tual society with foreigners, although the offence of some aboutmarriages, and their having married wives that were not oftheir own country, had been an occasion of their former capti­vity, and of the miseries they then underwent; so they com­manded Manasseh to divorce his wife, or not to approach the al­tar, the high priest himself joining with the people in their in­dignation against his brother, and driving him away from thealtar. V/hereupon Manasseh came to his father-in-law, San­ballat, and told him, That "although he loved his daughter"Nicaso, yet he was not willing to be deprived of his sacerdotal"dignity on her account, which was the principal dignity in"their nation, and always continued in the same family." Andwhen Sanballat promised him not only to preserve to him thehonour of his priesthood, but to procure for him the power anddignity of a high priest, and would make him governor of allthe places he himself now ruled, if he would keep his daughterfor his wife; He also told him farther, that he would buildhim a temple like to that at Jerusalem, upon mount Gerizzimwhich .is the highest of all the mountains that are in Samaria,and he" promised that he would do this with the approbation ofDarius the king. Manasseh was elevated with these promises,and stayed with Sanballat, upon a supposal that he should gaina high priesthood, as bestowed on him by Darius, for it hap­