OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 315 who resided in the capital—a body which had remained verynumerous in consequence of the remarkable moderation ofSulla—laboured zealously to procure permission for these toreturn home; and in particular some ladies of wealth anddistinction spared for this purpose neither trouble normoney. None of these grounds of ill-humour were such asto furnish any immediate prospect of a fresh violent collisionbetween the parties; they were in great part of an aimlessand temporary nature; but they all fed the general dis­content, and had already, been more or less concerned inproducing the murder of Rufus, the repeated attempts toassassinate Sulla, the issue of the consular and tribunicianelections for 667 partly in favour of the opposition. 87. The name of the man whom the discontented had sum- Ciniia.moned to the head of the state, Lucius Cornelius Cinna, hadbeen hitherto scarcely heard of, except so far as he haddistinguished himself as an officer in the Social war. Wehave less information regarding Cinna's personal standingand his original designs than regarding those of any otherparty leader in the Soman revolution. The reason is, to allappearance, simply that a man so thoroughly vulgar andguided by the lowest selfishness had from the first no compre­hensive political plans whatever. It was asserted at his veryfirst appearance that he had sold himself for a round sum ofmoney to the new burgesses and the coterie of Marius, andthe charge looks very credible; but even were it false, itremains nevertheless significant that a suspicion of thesort, such, as was never expressed against Saturninus andSulpicius, attached to Cinna. In fact the movement, at thehead of which he put himself, has altogether the appearanceof worthlessness both as to motives and as to aims. It pro­ceeded not so much from a party as from a number of dissatis­fied persons without strictly political aims or notable support,who had mainly undertaken to carry out the recall of theexiles by legal or illegal means. Cinna seems to have beenadmitted into the conspiracy only by an after-thought andmerely because the intrigue, which in consequence ofthe restriction of the tribunician powers needed a consul tobring forward its proposals, saw in him among the consularcandidates for 667 its fittest instrument and so pushed him 87-forward as consul. Among the leaders appearing in the secondrank of the movement were some abler heads; such wasthe tribune of the people Gnaeus Papirius Carbo, who had Carbo.