OCR Output 190 ROMAN KM PI RE. ample revenue; and the weakness or neglect of theemperors compelled them to consult, both in peaceand war, the temporal safety of the city. In theschool of adversity the priest insensibly imbibed thevirtues and the ambition of a prince; the same characterwas assumed, the same policy was adopted, by the Italian,the Greek, or the Syrian, who ascended the chair of St.Peter; and, after the loss of her legions and provinces,the genius and fortune of the popes again restored thesupremacy of Rome. It is agreed, that in the eighthcentury, their dominion was founded on rebellion, andthat the rebellion was produced, and justified, by the he­resy of the Iconoclasts; but the conduct of the second andthird Gregory, in this memorable contest, is variouslyinterpreted by the wishes of their friends and enemies.The Byzantine writers unanimously declare, that, after afruitless admonition, they pronounced the separation ofthe east and west, and deprived the sacrilegious tyrantof the re venue and sovereignty of Italy. Their excommu­nication is still more clearly expressed by the Greeks, whobeheld the accomplishment of the papal triumphs; andas they are more strongly attached to their religion thanto their country, they praise, instead of blaming, the zealand orthodoxy of these apostolical men.0 The modernchampions of Rome are eager to accept the praise andthe precedent: this great and glorious example of thedeposition of royal heretics is celebrated by the cardinalsBaronius and Bellarmine ;a and if they are asked, whythe same thunders were not hurled against the Neros andJulians of antiquity; they reply, that the weakness ofthe primitive church was the sole cause of her patient » Ktu Tm Px/iun rut -xa-r, iraXia rut #acriXtia; alinu alrwruirf, says Theophanes.(Chronograph, p. 343.) For this Gregory is styled by Cedrenus avuj awwnXiUf.p. 450.) Zonaras specifies the thunder avuOn/cum 0-vwtiav. (torn. 2. lib. 15. p. 104,105.) It may be observed, that the Greeks are apt to 'confound the times andactions of the two Gregories. d See Baronius, Annal. Eccles. A. D. 730, no. 4, 5. dignum exemplum! Bel-hiiinin, de Romano Pontifice. lib. 5. c. 8. muktavit cum parte imperil. Sigonius,de Regno Italiae, lib. 3. Opera, torn. •_'. p. id1.'. Yet such is th» change of Italy,that Sigonivw is corrected by the editor of Milan, Philippus Argelatus, a Bolognw.and subject of the pope.