OCR Output 12 DECLtNE AND TALL [CHAP. XXXIX. in the midst of a solemn banquet, was stabbed by thehand, or at least by the command, of his rival. Se­cret and effectual orders had been previously dispatched;the faithless and rapacious mercenaries, at the same mo­ment, and without resistance, were universally massa­cred; and the royalty of Theodoric was proclaimed bythe Goths, with the tardy, reluctant, ambiguous consentof the emperor of the east. The design of a conspiracywas imputed, according to the usual forms, to the pros­trate tyrant; but his innocence, and the guilt of his con­queror/ are sufficiently proved by the advantageous treatywhich force would not sincerely have granted, nor weak­ness have rashly infringed. The jealousy of power, andthe mischiefs of discord, may suggest a more decentapology, and a sentence less rigorous may be pronouncedagainst a crime which was necessary to introduce intoReign of Italy a generation of public felicity. The living: authorting of of this felicity was audaciously praised in his own presencea?d. 493, hy sacred and profane orators ;z but history (in his timea'd'sk was mute anc* inglorious) has not left any just repre-Ang. 30. sentation of the events which displayed, or of the defectswhich clouded, the virtues of Theodoric* One recordof his fame, the volume of public epistles composed byCassiodorius in the royal name is still extant, and has ob­tained more implicit credit, than it seems to deserve.1" y Procopius (Gothic. lib. 1. c. 1.) approves himself an impartial sceptic ; ■fajri . ..SoXefM rpowai utritfa. Cassiodorius' (in Chron.) and Ennodias (p. 1604.) are loyaland credulous; and the testimony of the Valesian Fragment (p. 718.) may justifytheir belief. Marcellinus spits the venom of a Greek subject—perjuriis illectas, in-terfectusque est. (in Chron.) * The sonoroas and servile oration of Knnodius was pronounced at Milan or Ra-Tenua in the years 507 or 508. (Sirmond, tom. 1. p. 1615.) Two or three years after­ward, the orator was rewarded with the hishoprick of Pavia, which he held till hisdeath, in the year 521. (Dupin Bibliot. Eccles. tom. 5. p. 11—14. See SaxiiOnomasticon, tom. 2. p. 12.) * Our best materials are occasional hints from Procopius and the Valesian Frag­ment, which was discovered by Sirmond, and is published at the end of AmmianusMarcellinus. The author's name is unknown, and-his style is harharous; but in hisvarious facts he exhihits the knowledge, without the passions, of a contemporary.The president Montesquieu had formed the plan of a history of Theodoric, which ata distance might appear a rich and interesting subject. ■ The best edition of the Variarumtibri 12. is that of Joh. Garretius ; (Rotomagi,1679. in Opp. Cassiodor. 2 vol. in fol.) but they deserved and required such aneditor as the Marquis Scipio Mafiei, who thought of publishing them at Verona.The Barhara Etegama (as it is ingeniously named by Tiraboschi) is never simple,and seldom perspicuous. . .