OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 20!) wards as a warning to others not to refuse it. Whenthose of the first rank in the Sammte nation had beenbound under these solemnities, the general nominatedten, whom he desired to choose each a man, and so toproceed until they should have filled up the number ofsixteen thousand. This body, from the covering of theinclosure wherein the nobility had been thus devoted,was called the linenlegion. They were furnished withsplendid armor, and plumed helmets, to distinguishthem above the rest. They had another body of forces,amounting to somewhat more than twenty thousand,not inferior to the linen legion, either in personal ap­pearance, or renown in war, or their equipment forservice. This number, composing the main strength ofthe nation, sat down at Aquilonia. 39. On the other side, the consuls set out from thecity. First, Spurius Carvilius, to whom had been de­creed the veteran legions, which Marcus Atilius, theconsul of the preceding year, had left in' the territoryof Interamna, marched at their head into Samnium ;and, while the enemy were busied in their superstitiousrites, and holding their secret meeting, he took bystorm the town of Amiternum. Here were slain abouttwo thousand eight hundred men ; and four thousandtwo hundred and seventy were made prisoners. Pa-pirius, with a new army, which he raised in pursuanceof a decree of the senate, made himself master of thecity of Duronia. He took fewer prisoners than hiscolleague; but slew much greater numbers. Richbooty was acquired in both places. The consuls then,overrunning Samnium, and wasting the province ofAtinum with particular severity, arrived, Carvilius atdominium, and Papirius at Aquilonia, where the mainforce of the Samnites was posted. Here, for some time,there was neither a cessation of action, nor any vigor­ous effort. The day was generally spent in provokingthe enemy when quiet, and retiring when they offeredresistance ; in menacing, rather than making an attack.By which practice of beginning, and then desisting,even those trifling skirmishes were continually left LIV. VOL. III. O