OCR Output CHAP. 19. .ROMAN HISTORY. 4$ be quite impracticable, amidst the noise and confusionof war, to give minds already grown wild with the useof arms, a relish for the arts of peace, he resolved to sof­ten and extinguish their martial ardour by degrees, andtherefore builds the temple of Janus, at the end of thestreet Argiletum, to be the sign of peace and war: ofwar, when operf; of peace, when shut. Twice only,since the reign of Numa has it been shut; once in theconsulship of Titus Manlius, after the end of the firstpunicwar; and a second time in the reign of the Em­peror Caesar Augustus, after the battle of Actium, whichgave peace by sea and land; a happiness it hath pleasedthe gods to grant to our age. Having made peace with all his neighbours, by trea­ties or alliances, the temple of Janus was shut; so havingno apprehension of danger from abroad, to prevent li­centiousness, the concomitant of idleness, in his subjectsat home, whom fear of the enemy, and military exerciseshad always kept in order, he had recourse to religion;proper impressions of which, he conceived would be themost effectual means of civilizing a multitude, at thatperiod rough and unpolished to a great degree. But aseven these impressions could be but faint, unless theywere accompanied with something supernatural, he pre­tends, that in the night time, he was admitted to holdconferences .with the goddess Egeria, and instructed byher, he instituted such sacred rites as would be most ac­ceptable to the gods; to each of whom he also appoint­ed their respective priests. And first of all, he made twelve lunar months the- measure of the year. And because a lunar month doesnot consist of thirty days complete, and some days arewanting to complete a full solar year, he managed mat­ters so, by inserting intercalary months, that twenty-four of these years taken together, should equal the samenumber of revolutions, and the days should return to thetame point in the ecliptic. He likewise distinguishedthe days into lawful and unlawful; because on somedays there would be no occasion for calling assemblies ofthe people. <