OCR Output A. D. 22. J op tacitus. 195 He produced and read a decree of the pontifical col­lege, whereby it appeared that the priest of Jupiter,when his health required it, or when he obtained adispensation from the supreme pontiff, might absenthimself from the duties of his function two nights atmost; provided it was not during the public ceremo­nies, nor'more than twice in the course of the year.From this regulation made by Augustus, it was evi­dent that a year's absence, and of course a proconsu­lar government, was incompatible with the sacerdotalfunction. The authority of Lucius Metellus, who,when high pontiff, would not suffer Aulus Posthu-mius, a priest of Jupiter, to depart from Rome, wasalso cited. It followed, that the province of Asiacould not be granted to Maluginensis. It fell to thelot of the person of consular rank, who stood next inseniority. LXXII. During these transactions, Marcus Lepi-dus petitioned the senate for leave to repair and de­corate, at his own expense, the basilisk of Paulus,that noble monument of the ^2milian family. Thedisplay of private munificence in public works, whichembellished,the city, wus not yet fallen into disuse.In the reign of Augustus without any objection fromthat emperor, Taurus, Phillippus, and Balbus, withthe spoils which they had taken from the enemy, orwith the superfluity of their own immoderate wealth,added greatly to the ornament of Rome, and by con­sequence, to the honour of their families. Encou­raged by this example, hut with a fortune much infe-'rior, Lepidus revived the glory of his ancestors. Thetheatre of Pompey had been destroyed by fire; ana,the remaining branches of the family not being equalto the expense of so great a structure, Tiberius de­clared his intention to build a new edifice, with theoriginal name. He congratulated the senate, thatthe damage occasioned by the late fire, was confinedto that single building. For this, he said, they wereobliged to the vigilance of Sejanus. The senatedecreed a statue to be placed in the theatre of Pom­pey, in honour of the favourite. In a short time af-