OCR Output 60 ROMAN EMPIRE. were crushed by the penal laws: and as early as thereign of Justinian, it became difficult to find a churchof Nestorians within the limits of the Roman empire.Beyond those limits they had discovered a new world,in which they might hope for liberty, and aspire toconquest. In Persia, notwithstanding the resistanceof the Magi, Christianity had struck a deep root, andthe nations of the east reposed under its salutary shade.The Catholic, or primate, resided in the capital: inhis synods, and in their diocesses, his metropolitans,bishops, and clergy, represented the pomp and honourof a regular hierarchy: they rejoiced in the increase ofproselytes, who were converted from the Zendavestato the gospel, from the secular to the monastic life;and their zeal was stimulated by the presence of anartful and formidable enemy. The Persian churchhad been founded by the missionaries of Syria; andtheir language, discipline, and doctrine, were closelyinterwoven with its original frame. The Catholicswere elected and ordained by their own suffragans;but their filial dependance on the patriarchs of Antiochis attested by the canons of the oriental church." Inthe Persian school of Edessa/ the rising generationsof the faithful imbibed their theological idiom; theystudied in the Syriac version the ten thousand volumesof Theodore of Mopsuestia, and they revered the apo­stolic faith and holy martyrdom of his disciple Nesto-rius, whose person and language were equally unknown 1 See the Arabic canons of Nice in the translation of Abraham Eccheleneis,Do. 37—40. Concil. torn. 2. p. 336, 336. edit. Venet. These vulgar titles, Ni-cene and Arabic, are both apocryphal. The council of Nice enacted no morethan twenty canons; (Theodoret, Hist. Eccles. lib. 1. c. 8.) and the remainder,seventy or eighty, were collected from the synods of the Greek church. The Sy­riac edition of Maruthas is no longer extant, (Asseman. Bibliot Oriental, torn. 1.p. 195. torn. 3. p. 74.) and the Arabic version, is marked with many recent inter­polations. Yet this code contains many curioua relics of ecclesiastical discipline;and since it is equally revered by all the eastern communions, it was pcobablyfinished before the schism of the Nestorians and Jacobites. (Fabric. Bibliot. Graec.torn. 11. p. 363—367.) y Theodore the reader (lib. 2. c. 5. 49. ad calcem Hist. Eccles.) has noticedthis Persian" school of Edessa. Its ancient splendour, and the two eras of itsdownfal (A.D. 431 and 489.) are clearly discussed by Asscmanni. (Bibliotb.Orient, torn. 2. p. 402. 3. p. 376. 378. 4. p. 70. 924.)