OCR Output 218 LIVY. fleet. Hanno, having received the newly raised bodyof cavalry, (which, so far from being strong enoughto make any attempt on the enemy, was not even suffi­cient to protect the country from devastation,) made ithis first care to increase their number by pressing.Those of other nations were not rejected; but he col­lected mostly N umidians, who are by far the best horse­men in Africa. Having got together four thousand horse,he took up his quarters in a city called Salera', fifteenmiles from the Roman camp. When this was told toScipio, he said, with surprise, ' What! cavalry lodg­ing in houses during the summer! Let them be evenmore in number, while they have such a commander.'The less they showed of activity, the less time hethought should be lost by himself; he therefore sentforward Masinissa with the cavalry, giving them di­rections to ride up to the gates, and entice the enemyout to battle. That when their multitudes should pourout, and become too powerful in the contest, heshould give way by degrees; and that he would him­self come up in time to support the fight. When theadvanced party had, as he supposed, effected his pur­pose, he followed with the Roman horse, and pro­ceeded, without being observed, under cover of somerising grounds which lay very conveniently round thewindings of the road. Masinissa, according to theplan laid down, acted at one time as if threatening anassault, at another as if seized with fear; now ridingup to the very gates, and now retreating with dissem­bled haste, which gave such boldness to the enemy,that they were at length tempted to come out of thetown, and pursue him, with disorder, in his counter­feited flight. All however had not come forth; andwith these remaining numbers the commander was nota little perplexed. Some, overpowered with wine andsleep, he had to compel to the taking of arms; othershe had to stop who were running out by the gateswithout their standards, and in scattered parties,wholly regardless of order or ranks. Masinissa with­stood them at first, while they rushed rashly to the