OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 361 dcmbled* —an augmentation which was rendered necessaryby the great increase of the duties of the senate through thetransference to it of the functions of jurymen. As, more­over, both the extraordinarily admitted senators and thequaestors were nominated by the comitia tributa, the senate,hitherto resting indirectly on the choice of the people (i.335), was now thoroughly based on direct popular election;and thus made as close an approach to a representativegovernment as was compatible with the nature of the oligarchyand the notions of antiquity generally. The senate had incourse of time been converted from a corporation intendedmerely to advise the magistrates into a board commanding themagistrates and self-governing; it was only a consistent ad­vance in the same direction, when the right of nominatingand cancelling senators originally belonging to the magis­trates was withdrawn from them, and the senate wasplaced on the same legal basis on which the magistrates'power itself rested. The extravagant prerogative of thecensors to revise the list of the senate and to erase or addnames at pleasure was iu reality incompatible with anorganized oligarchic constitution. As provision was nowmade for a sufficient regular recruiting of its ranks by theelection of the quaestors, the censorial revisions becamesuperfluous; and by their abeyance the essential principle atthe bottom of every oligarchy, the irremoveable character andlife-tenure of the members of the ruling order who obtainedseat and vote, was definitively consolidated. In respect to legislation Sulla contented himself with re- Regulation*viving the regulations made in 666, and securing to the "j *° C88-senate the legislative initiative, which had long belonged to '^»^ur"it practically, by legal enactment at least as against the tri-bunes. The burgess-body remained formally sovereign; butso far as its general assemblies were concerned, while it * We cannot strictly speak of a fixed number of senatorr.. Though thecensors before Sulla prepared on each occasion a list of 300 persons, therealways fell to be added to this list those non-senators who rilled curule officesbetween the time when the list was drawn up and the preparation of the next one;and after Sulla there were as many senators as there were surviving quxstorians'But it may be probably assumed that Sulla meant to bring the senate up to500 or 600 members; and this number results, if we assume that 20 newmembers, at an average age of 30, were admitted annually, and we estimatethe average duration of the senatorial dignity at from 25 to 30 years. At anumerously attended sitting of the senate in Cicero's time 417 members werepresent.