OCR Output 32G HEXAEXCM. MEMPHIS. Psuinmetiehus (Herod, ii. 153; Aelinn, Hint. An.xi. 10; Clemens Alexand. Patilag. iii. 2; Strab.xvii. p. 807), .stood opposite the southern portal ofthe great temple of Ptah or Hcphaestos, and wascelebrated for its colonnades, through which the pro­cessions of Apis were conducted. Here was also anoracle of Apis, in connection with one of Osiris andIsi.s (Plin. viii. 46; Pausan. vii. 22.) This templewas the cathedral of Aegypt, and not only esta­blished there a numerous, opulent, and learned col­lege of priests, but also attracted thitlter innumerableworshippers, who combined commercial with reli­gious purposes. 4. The temple of Scrapis, in the western quarterof Memphis. This Scrapis was of earlier date thanthe Alexandrian deity of similar mme. To theMemphiiin Serappium was attached a Xilo-meter, furgauging and recording the periodical overflows of theriver. It was removed by Constantine as a relic ofpaganism, but replaced by his successor Julian.(Stent, flitt. EccUs. i. 18; Sozomen, v. 2; comp.Diodor. i. 50, 57; Senec. Quarst Nat. iv. 2 ; Plin.Tiii. 46.) 5. A temple of Phro, or the Sun, mentioned onlyin the Ko-etta inscription (Letronne, Rtcueil desInter. Grecques et Lat. de I' Egypte; Brugsch, In-script HoBfttan.') 6. The temple of the Cabeiri (Herod, iii. 37),into which none but the high-priest might lawfullyenter. The statues of the pigmy gods were burnedby Cambyses, and the temple mutilated. 7. The temple of Ptah or Hephaestos, the ele­mental principle of fire, worshipped under the formof a Pygmy. This was the most ancient shrine inMemphis, being coeval with its foundation. (Diodor.i. 45; Herod, ii. 99, iii. 37; Strab. xvii. 807 ; Am-mian. xvii. 4.) It was enlarged and beautified byseveral successive inonarehs, apparently through aspirit of rivalry with the great buildings at Thebes.(1.) Moeris erected the great northern court (Herod,ii. 101; Diod. i. 51). (2.) Kamcses the Greatraised in this court six colossal figures of stone, —portrait-statues of himself, his queen, and their foursons. (Herod, ii. 108—110; Strab. xvii. p. 807.)(3.) Rhampeinitus built the western court, anderected two colossal figures of summer and winter.(Herod, ii. 121; Diodor. L 62; Wilkinson, M. and('. i. p. 121.) (4-) Asychia added the easterncourt (Herod, ii. 136.) It was, in the opinion ofHerodotus, by far the noblest and most beautiful ofthe four quadrangles. (5.) Psammetichus, theSaite king, added the south court, in commemorationof his victory over the Dodecarchy ( Polyaen. Stratag.vii. 3; Herod, ii. 153 , Diodor. i 67); and Amasis(Herod, ii. 176) erected or restored to its basis thecolossal statue of Ptah, in front of the southernportico. From the priests of the Memphtan temples,the Greeks derived their knowledge of Aegyptianannals, and the rudiments also of their philosophicalsystems. It was at Memphis that Herodotus madehis longest sojourn, and gained most of his inform­ation respecting Lower Aegypt. Democritus alsore-sided five years at Memphis, and won the favour ofthe priests by hia addiction to astrological and hiero-glyphieal studies. (Diog. Laert. iMmocrit. ix. 34.)Memphis reckoned among its illustrious vi-itors, inearly times, the legislator S>lon, the historian Heca-taeus, the philosophers Thales and Cleobulus ofLindua; and in a later age, Strabo the geographer,and Diodorus the Sicilian. The village of Mitra-nUh, half concealed in a 'grove of palm-trees, about 10 miles & of <7ia*t,I marks the site of the ancient Memphis. The «a--cesMve conquerors of the land, indeed, have u*eri us. ruins as a stone-quarry, so that its exact wtu»t:»n< has been a subject of dispare. Major Kni*llI (Geography of Herodotus, vol. ii. p. 121, te*\.\! however, brings incontestable evidence of the corre­spondence of MitrunteA with Memphis. Its re­mains extend over many hundred acres of groco-i,which are covered with blocks of granite, brok*-::obelisks, columns and colossal statues. The prisvcipal mound corresponds probably with the area \4the great temple of Ptah. There are several accounts of the appearance ofMemphis at different eras. Strabo saw the Hcphae*-teium entire, although much of the city was then nruins. In the twelfth centnry a. i>. it was vbdt«d bythe Arabian traveller Ab-dallatif, who was deep>impressed with the spectacle of grandeur and deso­lation. "Its ruins ofier," he says, " to the spectatora union of things which confound him, and whichthe most eloquent man in the world would in vainattempt to describe," He seems to hare seen at leastone of the colossal statues of the group of Ru*wsin the northern court of the Hephaes-teium. An>*\£innumerable "idols," as he terms them, be ** nwa»u.r**ione which, without its pedestal, was more than 30cubits long. This statue was formed of a sasjefepiece of red granite, and was covered with a redvarnish." (Ab-dallatif, De &tcy* Tran*lnt*m, *?•.p. 184.) Sir William Hamilton (Afgyjttiaca* *;<xp. 303) visited the spot, and says, that "ha«nmounds enclose a square of 1800 yards from N.to S., and 400 from E. to W. Tlie entrance uthe centre of each side is still visible, Th* t»«principal entrances faced the desert and the rivrr"(that is W. and E.). He entered by the oarer,and found immediately " thirty or forty large l>l<ck«of very fine red granite, lying on the ground, eritWntlyforming parts of some colossal statues, the chatornaments of the temple." The district in which these remains are found isstill termed Memfby the Coptic population, and ths>helps to confirm the identity of the village of Jtitra-nkh with the ancient capital of Aegypt. [W.fcVD.]MENAENUM or MENAE (M«wu, Pu>L, i*nh.B.; Mf'vaivov, Diod.: EtM. M««u*t, Steph ; Kitcoins have Meraipoi; Menaenus, Cic.; MennetmnuLPlin.: Mineo), an inland city of Sicily, aW^r. ]$miles W. of Leontini. It was a city of the Soma.and not a Greek colony, but, according to Ihotiuru*,was not an ancient settlement of that p**>f>le. batfirst founded by their king Dueetiw, in sue. 459.(Diod. xi. 78.) It wai situated at a distance atabout 2 miles from the celebrated lake and «■!*--tuary of the Palici [PAMCnRFM LmX»] (StrjKB. ». r.); and Ducetius appears, a few ream si rr-wards, to have removed the inhabitants again fnmhis newly built city, and t-> have founded ancthrr,in the immediate neighbourhood of the sarred Was,to which he gave the name of Palica (Dutd. xl. M,where tbe reading MeVar for N#ai, suggested byCluver. and adopted by Weaseling, is at sna*t v*-tprobable, though it is difficult to undrmtan-i h->«»Diodorus could call H tbe N*i/tre city cf Ducvtius, ifit had, in fact, been only founded by him) Thatnew city, however, was destroyed soon saW uWdeath of Ducetius (Diod. xi. 90), and it ss prahafastthat the inhabitants settled again at Xlvtuarmca.The latter city, though it never attained to arygreat importance, continned to &ub*ist dusrn to a