OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. *3j - Page 51. That Ccicjlid! Venus ts the eldest of those divinities whoare called the Parca.~\ We have already observed, that there arctwo Venuses, one supermundane, the other mundane. The first ofthese is the Celestial Venus mentioned in this place by Paufanias,as the eldest of the Parcæ, though according to the Orphic hymnto this goddess, and which I have no doubt is the truth, she isthe ruler of the Fates: for the Hymn fays «u tfastut tjktuwv f*oi£iur,"thou governs/I the three Fates." Page 5 2. And the temple of Diana the huntress.'} The sphereof the Moon is, as is well known, attributed to the goddessDiana: and this divinity, as we are informed by Proclus inTim. p. 260, "is the cause of nature to mortals, as she is thefelf-confpicuous image of fontal Nature.'* Sitam fut am« toitJ>T)1o>; T7); (pvtrWi, to avroiBat ayahyta tfiaa Tut amyoiof fvnuf. Asthe Moon therefore is the cause of the existence of all na­tural life, so likewise of its dissolution: for the natural life whichshe imparts to all animals and plants, brings with it a limitedduration, and, when the period of its existence is accomplished,returns to this divinity as its fountain. Hence Diana is veryproperly represented as a huntress: for through certain unappa-rent powers resident in the rays of the Moon, of which arrowsare an image, she takes away, or, in other words, receives backagain, the natural life which (he gave. Page 54. Bacchus leading Vulcan bad to heaven."] The meaningof this beautiful fable appears to me to be as follows: Vulcan,as we have already observed, is that divine power which presidesover the spermatic and physical reasons of the universe; or, inother woids, which by using nature as an instrument, producesall the bodies which the universe contains. Juno is the inspec-tive guardian of all motion and progression. Hence she is said tohave hurled Vulcan from heaven, because the is the cause of Vul­can's prolific progression to the extremity of things, and of hisbeing every where present with his productions in the most un­restrained manner—-in a manner, by which this progression, con­tinually 1