OCR Output 124 THE ANNAI^ [A. U. C. 772. prominent features of Rhescuporis. The princes pre­served at first a show of mutual concord; in timeRhescuporis began to encroach on his nephew, notindeed with open violence, as he knew that Augustus,the founder of both kingdoms, might likewise provethe avenger of wrongs. During that emperor's life,he concealed his designs; but he no sooner heard thatRome had changed masters, than he threw off themask and avowed his ambition. With a band offreebooters he ravaged the country, razed to theground the strong holds and castles, and by everyact of hostility provoked a war. LXV. To keep things, which were once settled, inthe same unaltered state, was the principal care thatoccupied the anxious spirit of Tiberius. He despatch­ed a centurion to restrain the Thracian kings from anopen rupture. Cotys disbanded his forces. Rhescu­poris resolved to act with craft and subtlety. He pro­posed a conference which, he had no doubt, wouldterminate all their differences. The time and placewere fixed: a negotiation was opened, both pridcesseeming willing to remove all difficulties. Cotyjbrought to the meeting a conciliating spirit; the un­cle meditated a stroke of perfidy. To ratify the pre­liminaries, he proposed a banquet. The parties met,and protracted their festivity to a late hour of thenight. Amidst the joys of wine, and in the momentof revelry, Rhescuporis attacked his nephew, unsus­pecting and unprovided. The deluded prince urgedin vain the rights of kings, the laws of hospitality, andthe gods of their forefathers. He was loaded withirons. His treacherous uncle made himself master ofall Thrace; and immediately sent despatches to in­form Tiberius that a dangerous conspiracy againsthis life had been defeated by timely vigilance. In themean time, under colour of an enterprise against theBasternians and the Scythians, he made levies ofhflrse and foot, determined, at all events, to be pre­pared for a defensive war. LXVI. Tiberius returned for answer, that his con­duct, if found to be free from reproach, would be hisbest protection; but neither the senate nor the em­