OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 55 for instance, with a view to rid himself of the inconvenientcounsel of his father's friends, assembled them in the palace,and ordered his mercenaries to put to death first them,and then their wives and children. Along with such recrea­tions he wrote treatises on gardening, cultivated poisonousplants, and prepared wax models, till a sudden death carriedhim off. With him the house of the Attalids became extinct. In i,rovincc oisuch an event, according to the constitutional law which held Asia,good at least for the client-states of Rome, the last rulermight dispose of the succession by testament. Whether itwas the insane rancour against his subjects which hadtormented the last Attalid during life that now suggestedto him the thought of bequeathing his kingdom by will tothe Romans, or whether his doing so was merely a furtherrecognition of the practical supremacy of Rome, cannot bedetermined. The testament was made; the Romansaccepted the bequest, and the question as to the land andthe treasure of the Attalids threw a new apple of contentionamong the conflicting political parties in Rome. In Asia also this royal testament kindled a civil war. War againstRelying on the aversion of the Asiatics to the foreign Aristonicus.rule which awaited them, Aristonicus, a natural son ofEumenes II., made his appearance in Leucae, a small seaportbetween Smyrna and Phocaea, as a pretender to the crown.Phocaea and other towns joined him, but he was defeatedat sea off Cyme by the Ephesians who saw that a steadyadherence to Rome was the only possible way of preservingtheir privileges, and was obliged to flee into the interior,The movement was believed to have died away when hesuddenly reappeared at the head of the new " citizens of thecity of the sun,"* in other words, of the slaves whom he hadcalled to freedom en masse, mastered the Lydian towns ofThyatira and Apollonis as well as a portion of the Attalictownships, and summoned bands of Thracian free-lances tojoin his standard. The struggle was serious. There wereno Roman troops in Asia; the Asiatic free cities and thecontingents of the client-princes of Bithynia, Paphlagonia, * These strange *' Heliopolites " may, according to the probable view whicha friend has expressed to me, be accounted tor by supposing that the liberatedslaves constituted themselves citizens of a town Heliopolis not otherwise men­tioned or perhaps having an existence merely in imagination, which derivedits name from the God of the Sun so highly honoured in Syria.