OCR Output 300 I HE DECLINE AND PALL Ciesars was overthrown; and the invincible genius of liberty prevailed over thetwo Frederics, the greatest princes of the middle age: the first, superior perhapsin military prowess; the second, who undoubtedly excelled in the softer accom­plishments of peace and learning. Ambitious of restoring the honours of the purple, Frederic I. invaded the re­publics of Lombardy, with the arts of a statesman, the valour of a soldier, and thecrueltv of a tyrant. The recent discovery of the Pandects had renewed a sciencemost favourable to despotism; and his venal advocates proclaimed the ttmperor theabsolute master of the lives and properties of his subjects. His royal prerogatives,in a less odious sense, were acknowledged in the diet of Roncaglia; and the revenueof ^taly was fixed at thirty thousand pounds of silver,(l) which were multiplied toan indefinite demand, by the rapine of the fiscal officers. The obstinate cities werereduced by the terror or force of his arms; his captives were delivered to the exe­cutioner, or shot from his military engines; and, after the siege and surrender ofMilan, the buildings of that stately capital were rased to the ground; three hundredhostages were sent into Germany, and the inhabitants were dispersed in four vil­lages, under the yoke of the inflexible conqueror. (2) But Milan soon rose fromher ashes; and the league of Lombardy was cemented by distress: their cause wasespoused by Venice, Pope Alexander III., and the Greek emperor: the fabric ofoppression was overturned in a day; and in the treaty of Constance, Frederic sub­scribed, with some reservations, the freedom of four-and-twenty cities. His grand­son contended with their vigour and maturity; but Frederic 11.(3) was endowedwith some personal and peculiar advantages. His birth and education recom­mended him to the Italians; and in the implacable discord of the two factions, theGhibelins were attached to the emperor, while the Guelfs displayed the banner ofliberty and the church. The rourt of Rome had slumbered, when his fatherHenry VI. was permitted to unite with the empire the kingdoms of Naples andSicily; and from these hereditary realms, the son derived an ample and readysupply of troops and treasure. Yet Frederic II. was finally oppressed by the armsof the Lombards and the thunders of the Vatican; his kingdom was given to astranger, and the last of his family was beheaded at Naples on a public scaffold.During sixty years, no emperor appeared in Italy, and the name was rememberedonly by the ignominious sale of the last relics of sovereignty. The barbarian conquerors of the west were pleased to decorate their chief withthe title of emperor; but it was not their design to invest him with the despotismof Constantine and Justinian. The persons of the Germans were free, their con­quests were their own, and their national character was animated by a spirit whichscorned the servile jurisprudence of the new or the ancient Roman. It would havebeen a vain and dangerous attempt to impose a monarch on the armed freemen,who were impatient of a magistrate; on the bold, who refused to obey; on thepowerful, who aspired to command. The empire of Charlemagne and Otho wasdistributed among the dukes of the nations or provinces, the counts of the smallerdistricts, and the margraves of the marches or frontiers, who all united the civiland military authority as it had been delegated to the lieutenants of the first Caesars.The Roman governors, who, for the most part, were soldiers of fortune, seducedtheir mercenary legions, assumed the imperial purple, and either failed or suc­ceeded in their revolt, without wounding the power and unity of government Ifthe dukes, margraves, and counts, of Germany were less audacious in theirclaims,the consequences of their success were more lasting and pernicious to the state.Instead of ainiing at the supreme rank, they silently laboured to establish and ap­propriate their provincial independence. Their ambition was seconded by theweight of their estate's and vassals, their mutual example and support, the commoninterest of the subordinate nobility, the change of princes and families, the minori­ties of Otho III. and Henry IV., the ambition of the popes, and the vain pursuitsof the fugitive crowns of Italy and Rome. All the attributes of regal and territorialjurisdiction were gradually usurped by the commanders of the provinces; the rightof peace and war, of life and death, of coinage and taxation, of foreign alliance anddomestic economy. Whatever had been seized by violence, was ratified by favour (1) Gutither Lururinns, lib. viii. 584. et icq. apart. Schmidt, torn. iii. p. 359. (2) Solus imperator feciemsuam tirmavit utpetntro. (Fucard. de F.xcidio Mediolani, Script. Ital. torn. vi.p. 917.) This volume,of Muratnri contains the originals of the history of Frederic I. which must be comparedwith due regard to the circumstances and prejudices of each German or Lombard writer. (3) For the history of Frederic II. and the house of Swabia at Naples, see Giannone, Istoria Civile, torn. ii.lib. xiv—ju j.