OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303 always on horseback and in the field. This favourite chap. YYYVTTT amusement of our ancestors was introduced by the' Barbarians into the Roman provinces; and the lawsof Italy esteem the sword and the hawk as of equaldignity and importance in the hands of a noble Lom­bard. So rapid was the influence of climate and example, Dress andthat the Lombards of the fourth generation surveyed ama"c'with curiosity and affright the portraits of theirsavage forefathers. Their heads were shaven behind,but the shaggy locks hung over their eyes and mouth,and a long beard represented the name and characterof the nation. Their dress consisted of loose linengarments, after the fashion of the Anglo-Saxons,which were decorated, in their opinion, with broadstripes of variegated colours. The legs and feetwere clothed in long hose, and open sandals; andeven in the security of peace a trusty sword wasconstantly girt to their side. Yet this strange apparel,and horrid aspect, often concealed a gentle and ge­nerous disposition; and as soon as the rage of battlehad subsided, the captives and subjects were some­times surprised by the humanity of the victor. Thevices of the Lombards were the effect of passion, ofignorance, of intoxication; their virtues are the morelaudable, as they were not affected by the hypocrisyof social manners, nor imposed by the rigid constraintof laws and education. I should not be apprehensiveof deviating from my subject, if it were in my powerto delineate the private life of the conquerors of Italy,and I shall relate with pleasure the adventurous gal­lantry of Autharis, which breathes the true spirit ofchivalry and romance*. After the loss of his pro­mised bride, a Merovingian princess, he sought in * The story of Autharis and Theudelinda is related by Paul, 1. iii. c. 29. 34;and any fragment of Bavarian antiquity excites the indefatigable diligence of thecount de Buat, Hist, des Peuples de 1'Europe, tom. xi. p. 595—635. tom. xii.p. 1—53.