OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 261 resistance which he encountered, propose it himself. Themeasure against the insolvency of senators was doubtlesscalled forth by the exposure of the economic condition of theruling families—so deeply embarrassed notwithstanding alltheir outward splendour—on occasion of the last financialcrisis. It was painful indeed, but yet in itself conducive tothe rightly understood interest of the aristocracy, that, aswas necessarily the effect of the Sulpician proposal, all per­sons should withdraw from the senate who were unablespeedily to meet their liabilities, and that the coterie-system,which found one of its main supports in the insolvency ofmany senators and their consequent dependence on theirwealthy colleagues, should be checked by the removal of thenotoriously venal portion of the senators. At the same time,of course, we do not mean to deny that such a purificationof the senate-house so abruptly and invidiously exposing thesenate, as Rufus proposed, would certainly never have beenproposed without his personal quarrels with the heads of theruling coteries. Lastly, the regulation in favour of the freed­men had undoubtedly the primary object of making its pro­poser master of the street; but in itself it was neitherunwarranted nor incompatible with the aristocratic consti­tution. Since the freedmen had begun to be drawn uponfor military service, their demand for the right of votingwas so far justified, as the right of voting and the obligationof service had always gone hand in hand. Moreover, lookingto the nullity of the comitia, it was politically of very littlemoment whether one sewer more emptied itself into thatslough. The difficulty which the oligarchy felt in govern­ing with the comitia was lessened rather than increased bythe unlimited admission of the freedmen, who were to avery great extent personally and financially dependent onthe ruling families and, if rightly used, might just furnishthe government with a means of controlling the electionsmore thoroughly than before. This measure certainly, likeevery other political favour shown to the proletariate,ran counter to the tendencies of the aristocracy friendly toreform; but it was for Rufus hardly anything else thanwhat the corn-law had been for Drusus—a means of draw­ing the proletariate over to his side and of breaking downwith its aid the opposition against the truly beneficial re­forms which he meditated. It was easy to foresee that thisopposition would not be slight; that the narrow-minded