OCR Output Chap.V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 207 "to pay any of these taxes from this time to all futurity."Take care therefore that a copy of this epistle be taken, and"given to Jonathan, and be set up in an eminent place of their"holy temple." And these were the contents of this writing.And now when Demetrius saw that there was peace everywhere; and that there was no danger, nor fear of war, he dis­banded the greatest part of his army, and diminished their pay,and even retained in pay no others but such foreigners as cameup with him from Crete, and from the other islands. How­ever, this procured him ill-will and hatred from the soldiers,on whom he bestowed nothing from this time, while the kingsbefore him used to pay them in time of peace, as they did be­fore, that they might have their good-will, and that they mightbe very ready to undergo the difficulties of war, if any occasionshould require it. CHAP. V. How Trypho, after he had beaten Demetrius, delivered the king­dom to Antiochus, the son of Alexander, and gained Jonathanfor his assistant: And concerning the actions and embassies ofJonathan. § 1. JN ow there was a certain commander of Alexander'sforces, an Apenemian by birth, whose name was Diodotus, andwas also called Trypho, took notice of the ill-will the soldiersbare to Demetrius, and went to Malchus the Arabian, whobrought up Antiochus the son of Alexander, and told him whatill-will the army bare Demetrius, and persuaded him to give himAntiochus, because he would make him king, and recover tohim the kingdom of his father. Malchus at the first opposedhim in this attempt, because he could not believe him, but whenTrypho lay hard at him for a long time, he over-persuaded him,to comply with Trypho's intentions and entreaties. And thiswas the state Trypho was now in. 2. But Jonathan the high priest, being desirous to get clearof those that were in the citadel at Jerusalem, and of the Jew­ish deserters, and wicked men, as well as of those in all the gar­risons in the country, sent presents and ambassadors to Deme­trius, and entreated him to take away his soldiers out of thestrong holds of Judea. Demetrius made answer, That after thewar, which he was now deeply engaged in, was over, he wouldnot only grant him that, but greater things than that also, andhe desired he would send him some assistance; and informed himthat his .army had deserted him. So Jonathan chose out threethousand of his soldiers, and sent them to Demetrius.