OCR Output 178 ROMAN KM PI UK. ginal were transferred to the copy: the devout Chris­tian prayed before the image of a saint: and the Paganrites of genuflexion, luminaries, and incense, again stoleinto the Catholic church. The scruples of reason orpiety, were silenced by the strong evidence of visionsand miracles; and the pictures which speak, and move,and bleed, must be endowed with a divine energy, andmay be considered as the proper objects of religiousadoration. The most audacious pencil might tremblein the rash attempt of denning, by forms and colours,•the infinite Spirit, the eternal Father, who pervades andsustains the universe.* But the superstitious mind wasmore easily reconciled to paint and to worship the an­gels, and, above all, the Son of God, under the humanshape, which, on earth, they have condescended to as­sume. The second person of the Trinity had beenclothed with a real and mortal body; but that body hadascended into heaven, and, had not some similitudebeen presented to the eyes of his disciples, the spiritualworship of Christ might have been obliterated by thevisible relics and representations of the saints. A simi­lar indulgence was requisite, and propitious, for theVirgin Mary: the place of her burial was unknown;and the assumption of her soul and body into heavenwas adopted by the credulity of the Greeks and Latins.The use, and even the worship, of images, was firmlyestablished before the end of the sixth century; theytvere fondly cherished by the warm imagination of theGreeks and Asiatics; the Pantheon and Vatican wereadorned with the emblems of a new superstition; butthis semblance of idolatry was more coldly entertainedby the rude barbarians and the Arian clergy of the west.The bolder forms of sculpture, in brass or marble, which - t ta.i xat Oim *r.c\ iuu £bXii; tm tmnpunn xsi vrpxantyn furiaT ti/Lu» n/wic J it;.; a.* =«i> . i Con c i'lium Nicenum, 2. in Collect. Labb. torn. 8 p. 1025. edit Venet.) II seroit peut£tre »•propos dc tie point souffrir d'images de ):i Trinitc on de la Divinite ; les defenrennles plus /el es dcs images ayant condamne cell es ci, et le concile de Trente ne parlsntque dat images de Jesus Chrut et des wiim.s. (Dupin. Bibtiot. Eccles. torn. 6. p. 1 54. >