OCR Output CHAP. 20. ROMAN HISTORY. , 133 Regillus, in the territory of Tusculum, came up withthe enemy, and getting intelligence that the Tarquinswere among the Latins, could no longer suppress theirfury, but charged them immediately. For this reason,the battle was more bloody and desperate than usual;the generals not only giving orders, and seeing them.properly executed, but exposing their persons in thehottest of the action; so that scarce an officer on eitherside, excepting the Roman dictator, escaped without awound. .'•' Whilst Posthumius was drawing up and haranguing hismen, Tarquin the proud, although weak and unwieldybv years, rode up with great fury to attack him; butreceiving a blow on the side, he was carried off safe bya party of his own people. In the other wing, ^Ebutiusgeneral of the horse, had singled out Octavius Mamilius,who on his part, observing his motions, did by no meansavoid him, but put spurs to his horse to meet him.With lance in hand, they pushed against each other soimpetuously, that .ffibutius was run through the arm,and Mamilius wounded in the breast. ^Sbutius, inca­pable of holding his lance fcny longer, by means of thewound in his arm, .left the field; whilst the Latin gene­ral was received into the second line, and returned soonafter to the charge, without regard to his wound. Ob­serving his troops in disorder, he made the cohort of theRoman exiles advance, commanded by Titus. Stima-lated by revenge against enemies who had deprived them'of their fortunes and country, they fought desperately;and, by that means, in some measure, restored die battle. CHAP. XX. Battle of Regillus. A. R. '258. W HEN the Romans began to give ground on thatside, Valerius, brother to Publicola, perceiving youngTarquio, who shewed/himself at the head of these exileswith haughtiness and deftance, eager to acquire his fa­mily the honour of putting to death, as it had already ofexpelling the Tarquins, he spurred his horse full speedagainst him, in order to pierce him through with h'sG