OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. forests of Germany and Poland, to pursue the emigra­tions of the Heruli, a fierce people, who disdained theuse of armour, and who condemned their widows andaged parents not to survive the loss of their husbands,or the decay of their strength.0 The king of these savagewarriors solicited the friendship of Theodoric, and waselevated to the rank of his son, according to the barba­ric rites of a military adoption.13 From the shores of theBaltic, the iEstians, or Livonians, laid their offerings ofnative amberq at the feet of a prince, whose fame had ex­cited them to undertake an unknown and dangerous jour­ney of fifteen hundred miles. With the country7 fromwhence the Gothic nation derived their origin, he main­tained a frequent and friendly correspondence; the Italianswere clothed in the rich sables' of Sweden; and one ofits sovereigns, after a voluntary or reluctant abdication,found a hospitable retreat in the palace of Ravenna.He had reigned over one of the thirteen populous tribeswho cultivated a small portion of the great island or pe­ninsula of Scandinavia, tp which the vague appellation ofThule has been sometimes applied. That northern re­gion was peopled, or had been explored, as high as thesixty-eighth degree of latitude, where the natives of thepolar circle enjoy and lose the presence of the sun at each (c. 58. p. 698, 699 ) and the Valesian Fragment, (p. 720,721.) Peace, honourablepeace, was the constant aim of Theodoric. '• The carious reader may contemplate the Heroli of Procopius, (Goth. lib. 2.c. 14.) and the patient reader may plunge into the dark and minute researches ofM. de Bual. (Hist, des Peoples Anciens, torn. 9. p. 348—396.) P Variarum, 4. 2. The spirit and forms of this martial institution are noticed byCassiodorius; but he seems to have only translated the sentiments of the Gothic kinginto the language of Roman eloquence. i Cassiodorius, who quotes Tacitus to the iEstians, the unlettered savages of theBaltic, (Var. 5. 2.) describes the amber for which their shores have ever been famous,as the'gum of a tree, hardened by the sun, and purified and wafted by the waves.When that singular substance is analyzed by the chemists, it yields a vegetable oiland a mineral acid. , r Scanzia, or Thule, is described by Jornades (c. 3. p. 610—613.) and Procopius.(Goth. lib. 2. c. 15.) Neither the Goth nor the Greek had visited the country: bothhad conversed with the natives in their exile at Ravenna or Constantinople. » Sapherinas pellet, la the time of Joruandes, they inhabited Snethaiis, the properSweden; bnt that beautiful race of animals has gradually been driven into the easternparts of Siberia. See Buffon (Hist. Nat. torn. 13. p. 309—313. quarto edition),Pennant, (System of Quadrupeds, vol. 1. p. 322—328.) Giuelin, (Hist. Qen. desVoyages, torn. 18. p. 257, 258.) and Levesque. (Hist, de Russie, torn. 5. p. 165,,Kit). 514, 515.) _-■./..;•.