OCR Output 168 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. worst of all, that instead of peace they had the sad alternativeof war. However, neither poor nor rich abated their displea­sure to Pericles, till they had laid upon him a pecuniary fine*.And yet, no long time after—so unsteady are the humours ofthe people—they elected him general again, and intrusted himwith the administration of affairs. The keen sense they hadat first of their^own private losses soon grew blunt and unaffect-ing, and they could not but allow him the most capable per­son to provide for all the urgent necessities of the public. Forthe supreme authority he enjoyed in times of peace he hadexercised with great moderation ; he was vigilant and activefor the good of the community, which never made so great afigure as under his administration ; and after war broke outit is plain he best knew the reach of its ability to carry it on.He lived two years and six months from its commencement:and after his deathf, his judicious foresight in regard to this • Plutarch (in the life of Pericles) says, authors are not agreed about thequantity of the fine al this time laid upon Pericles Some lower it to fif­teen talents, others mount it up to fifty. The demagogue, who incited thepeople to fine him, is also said by some to have been Clean, with whose ge­nius and character the reader will soon become acquainted. t As the historian is here going to take his leave of Pericles, he adjoinsa true representation of his patriot spirit, his great abilities, his judiciousforesight, and successful administration. And here the reader may be in­formed of some points, which Thucydides either thought needless when he wrote, or foreign to his subject. Pericles had two sons by his former wife. The eldest of them proved a great vexation to his father, who wasunable to support him in his expensive way of living. Pericles had nolarge estate, and he was not rjcher for fingering the public money. HeUid it all out in adorning his Athens, and was rewarded for it by giving somany magnificent and lasting proofs of his fine taste in painting, sculpture,and building. For the city of Rome received not so much decoration fromher foundation till the time of the Caesars, as Athens did from Periclesalone- Yet economy was his passion at home, as that of his son Xantippuswas luxury. This son however was taken off by the plague, as was after­wards a sister of Pericles, most of his intimates and relations, and his otherson Paralus. This last was the heaviest blow ; he fell it deeply : And allAthens did all that lny in their power to comfort him, since, contrary to aUw of Pericles' own making, the} enrolled his son Pericles, whom he hadby Aspasia, an Athenian of the full blood. At length he was seized him­self by the plague ; and, after languishing a long lime, in a manner differ­