OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. < was awakened by the last insolent demand of the Persian conqueror; but at themoment when Heraclius assumed the spirit of a hero, the only hopes of the Ro­mans were drawn from the vicissitudes of fortune which might threaten the proudprosperity of Chosroes, and must be favourable to those who had attained thelowest period of depression. (1) To provide for the expenses of war, was thefirst care of the emperor; and for the purpose of collecting the tribute, he was al­lowed to solicit the benevolence of the eastern provinces. But the revenue nolonger flowed in the usual channels: the credit of an arbitrary prince is annihilatedby his power; and the courage of Heraclius was first displayed in daring to borrowthe consecrated wealth of churches, under the solemn vow of restoring, withusury, whatever he had been compelled to employ in the service of religion andof the empire. The clergy themselves appear to have sympathized with the pub­lic distress, and the discreet patriarch of Alexandria, without admitting the pre­cedent of sacrilege, assisted his sovereign by the miraculous or seasonable revelationof a secret treasure. (2) Of the soldiers who had conspired with Phocas, onlytwo were found to have survived the stroke of time and of the barbarians;(3) theloss, even of these seditious veterans, was imperfectly supplied by the new leviesof Heraclius, and the gold of the sanctuary united in the same camp, the names,and arms, and languages, of the east and west. He would have been content withthe neutrality of the Avars; and his friendly entreaty that the chagan would act,not as the enemy but as the guardian of the empire, was accompanied with a morepersuasive donative of two hundred thousand pieces of gold. Two days after thefestival of Easter, the emperor, exchanging his purple for the simple garb of apenitent and warrior(4) gave the signal of his departure. To the faith of thepeople, Heraclius recommended his children: the civil and military powers werevested in the most deserving hands, and the discretion of the patriarch and senatewas authorized to save or surrender the city, if they should be oppressed in his ab­sence by the superior forces of the enemy. The neighbouring heights of Chalcedon were covered with tents and arms; butif the new levies of Heraclius had been rashly led to the attack, the victory of thePersians in the sight of Constantinople might have been the last day of the Ro­man empire. As imprudent would it have been to advance into the provinces ofAsia, leaving their innumerable cavalry to intercept his convoys, and continuallyto hang on the lassitude and disorder of his rear. But the Greeks were still mas­ters of the sea; a fleet of galleys, transports, and store-ships, was assembled in theharbour; the barbarians consented to embark; a steady wind carried them throughthe Hellespont; the western and southern coast of Asia Minor lay on their lefthand; the spirit of their chief, was first displayed in a storm; and even the eunuchs-of his train were excited to suffer and to work by the example of their master. Helanded his troops on the confines of Syria and Cilicia, in the gulf of Scanderoon,where the coast suddenly turns to the south :(5) and his discernment was expressedin the choice of this important post. (6) From all sides the scattered garrisons ofthe maritime cities and the mountains might repair with speed and safety to his. 0) ....••..*. * E< t«; ear'axpOvupuEvse; im%tx; Kurds) to Xoiwov tv xxxoi; tin Ilipo-iJo? Airio-rpaipw; &c. George Pitid. Acroas. 1. 51, &c. p. 4. Tbe orientals are not leas fond of remarking this strange vicissitude: and I remember some story of KhosroT*Parviz, not very unlike the ring; of Polycrates of Samos. (2) Baronius gravely relates this discovery, or rather transmutation of barrels, not of honey, but of gold,.(Annal. Eccles. A. D. 620. No. 3, See.) Yet the loan was arbitrary, since it was collected by soldiers, who wereordered to leave the patriarch of Alexandria no more than one hundred pounds of gold. Nicephoras, (p. 110two hundred years afterward, speaks with ill humour of this contribution, which the church of Constantino­ple might still feel. (3) Theophylact, Simocatta, lib. viii. e. 12. This circumstance need not excite our surprise. The muster-roil of a regiment, even in time of peace, is renewed in less than twenty or twenty-five years. (4) He changed his purple, for black buskins, and dyed them red in the blood of the Persians (Georg. Pisid,Acroas, 3.118.121,122. See the notes of Foggini,p. 35.) (5) George of Pisidia (Acroas. ii. 10.p.8.)has fixed this important point of the Syrian anil Cilician gates.They are elegantly described by Xenophon, who marched through them a thousand years before. A narrowpass of three stadia between steep high rocks (n-sTpai ,ia.i<3xti»i) and the Mediterranean was closed at each end bystrong gates, impregnable to the land ( wupvJinv evx *v accessible by sea (Anabasis, lib. i. p. 35,36. withHutchinson's Geographical Dissertation, p. 6.) Tbe gates were thirty.five parasangs. or leagues from Tarsus(Anabasis, lib. i. p. 33,34.) and eight or ten from Antioch. (Compare Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 580, 581. Schul-rens. Index Geograph. ad calcem Vit. Saladin. p. 9. Voyage en Turquie et en Perse, par M. Otter, torn. i. p. (6) Heraclius might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero.—" Gastra habuimus et ipsa quae contraDarium habnerat apud Issum Alexander, imperator haud paulo melior quam aut tu aut ego." Ad Atticum,v. 20. Issus, a rich and flourishing city in the time of Xenophon,was ruined by the prosperity of Alexandriaor Scandaroon, on the other side of the bay.