OCR Output H. III. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. 217 first before the Isthmus in great parade, they displayed theirforce, and then made descents at pleasure all along the coast.The Lacedaemonians seeing them thus strong beyond whatthey had imagined, concluded that the Lesbians had pur­posely amused them with fictions ; and being perplexed howto act, as their confederates were not yet come up to jointhem, and as information was brought them, that the firstAthenian squadron consisting of thirty sail was laying wastethe territory round about their city, they retired to their ownhomes. Afterwards they set about the equipment of a fleet to besent to Lesbos ; and ordered the confederate cities to send intheir contingents, the whole amounting to forty sail; andfurther appointed Alcidas to be admiral in chief, who wasready to put himself at the head of the expedition. TheAthenians departed off the coast with their hundred sail,when they saw their enemies had retreated. cution of this design he divided the Athenians into four ranks, accordingto every man's estate; those who were worth five hundred medimns ofliquid and dry commodities he placed in the first rank, calling- them Pen-tacotiomedimni. The next were the horsemen, or Ifipeii, being such as wereof ability to furnish out a horse, or were worth three hundred medinuu.The third class consisted of those that had two hundred medimns, whowere called Zeugita. In the last he placed all the rest, called them Thetet,and allowed them not to be capable of bearing any office in the government,only gave them a liberty to give their votes in all public assemblies ; which,though at the first it appeared inconsiderable, was afterwards found to bea very important privilege ; for it being permitted every man after the de­termination of the magistrates to make an appeal to the people assembledin convocation, hereby it came to pass, that causes of the greatest weightand moment were brought before them. And thus he continued the powerand magistracy in the hands of the rich men, and yet neither exposed theinferior people to their cruelty and oppression, nor wholly deprived themof having a share in the government. And of this equality he himselfmakes mention in this manner : What power was fit I did on all bestow, Nor rais'd the poor too high, nor press'd too low i The rich that rul'd and every office bore, Confin'd by laws they could not press the poor : Both parties I secured from lawless might, So none prevail'd upon another's right."—Mr. Ciu.cca.