OCR Output THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. During the former transactions at Delium, Shakes alsoking of the Odiysians was killed in an expedition he had form­ed against the Triballians, who encountered and vanquishedhim. And Seuthes the son of Sparadocus, his nephew by thebrother, succeeded him in the kingdom of the Odrysians andthe rest of Thrace over which he had reigned. The same winter, Brasidas, in conjunction with the alliesof Thrace, marched against Amphipolis, an Athenian colony,upon the river Strymon. The spot of ground on which the city now standeth, Aris-tagoras the Milesian formerly, when he fled from king Da­rius had endeavoured to plant, but was beat off by the Edo-nians. Two and thirty years after, the Athenians made thesame attempt, having sent thither a colony consisting of tenthousand of their own people and such others as voluntarilycame in, all of whom were destroyed by the Thracians atDrabescus. But after an interval of twenty-nine years, theAthenians came hither again with a fresh colony led byAgnon the son of Nicias, who having drove away the Edo-nians built this city upon that spot of ground which hadformerly been called the nine-roads. They rushed to theseizure from Eion, a maritime emporium situated at the ri­ver's mouth, and belonging to them. Eion is distant twentystadia* from the spot where the city now standeth, and whichby Agnon was named Amphipolis, because it is almost sur­rounded by the Strymon which floweth along it on bothsides. Running therefore a wall from the river to the river,' 5he planted his colony on a spot conspicuous both to the landand to the sea. Against this place, Brasidas, decamping from Arne ofChalcidica, advanced with his army. About sun-set he ar­rived at Aulon and Bromiscus, where the lake Bolbe issuethinto the sea. From hence, after taking the evening-repast,he continued his march by night. It was winter, and asnow was falling. This favoured and encouraged his enter-\ prize, as he intended to surprize the people of Amphipolis,• About two English miles.