OCR Output :J28 [book IX ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Ahab's steward came to him, and said, hewas not ignorant how her husband had pre­served the prophets, that were to be slainby Jezebel, the wife of Ahab: for she saidthat he hid a hundred of them; and hadborrowed money for their maintenance; andthat after her husband's death, she and herchildren were carried away to be madeslaves,* by the creditors, and she desired ofhim to have mercy upon her, on account ofwhat her husband did; and afford her someassistance. And when he asked her whatshe had in the house? she said, Nothing buta very small quantity of oil in a cruse. So theprophet bade her go away, and borrow agreat many empty vessels of her neighbours; the good steward of Abab, as Joscphus affirms, is con­firmed, as Dr. Hudson informs us, by the Chaldee Pa-raphrast, and by the Rabbins, and others besides. Noris that unlikely, which Josephus here adds, that thesedebts were contracted by her husband for the support ofthose hundred of the Lord's prophets whom he main­tained by fifty in a cave in the days of Ahab and Jezebel,1 Kings xviii. 4, which circumstance rendered it highlyfit that the prophet Elisha should provide her a remedy,and enable her to redeem herself and her sons from thatslavery which insolvent debtors were liable to, by thelaw of Moses, Lev. xxv. 39, Matt, xviii. 25, and whichhe did accordingly, with God's help, at the expense ofa miracle. * The Jewish law looked upon children as the propergoods of their parents, who had power to sell them forseven years, as their creditors had to compel them to doit in order to pay their debt; and from the Jews thiscustom was propagated to the Athenians, and from themto the Romans. The Romans indeed had the most abso­lute control over their children. By the decree of Ro­mulus they could imprison, beat, kill, or sell them forslaves. But Numa Pompilius first moderated this, andthe emperor Dioclesian made a law, that no free personshould be sold upon account of debt. The ancient Athe­nians had the like jurisdiction over their children; butSolon reformed this cruel custom; as indeed it seemeda little hard, that the children of a poor man, who haveno manner of inheritance left them, should be compelledinto slavery, in order to pay their deceased father's debts:and yet this was the custom, as appears from this passage,wherein the prophet does not pretend to reprove the cre­ditor, but only puts the woman in a method to pay him.Calmtt,s and he Clere's Commentaries. B. t Dr. Hudson, with very good reason, slispects thatthere is no small defect in our present copies of Josephus,just before the beginning of this paragraph, and thatchiefly as to that distinct account which he had given usreason to expect in the preceding one, and to which heseems to refer, chap. viii. concerning the glorious miracleswhich Elisha wrought; which indeed in our Bibles arenot a few, 2 Kings iv—ix. but of which we have severalomitted in Josephus's present copies. Nor does the fol­lowing incoherence here, which requires Joram to bewareof that place, as 2 Kings vi. 10. whereas no certain place and, when she had shut her chamber door,to pour the oil into them all: for that Godwould fill them. And when the woman haddone what she was commanded, and badeher children bring every one of the vessels,and all were filled, she came to the prophet,and told him they were full. Upon whichhe advised her to go and sell the oil, and S>ay the creditors what was owing to them:or that there would be some surplus ofthe price of oil; which she might makeuse of for the maintenance of her children.And thus did Elisha discharge the woman'sdebts, and free her from the vexation of hercreditors. Elishaf also sent a hasty message to Jo-had, in his present copies, been mentioned before, at allagree with the foregoing coherence, and context, asit does in our other copies. One of those histories,omitted at present, was evidently in his Bible. I meanthat of curing Naaman's leprosy, 2 Kings v. for heplainly alludes to it, 111. 11. where he observes, that"There were lepers in many nations, who yet have beenin honour; and not only free from reproach, and avoid­ance; but who have been great captaius of armies, andbeen intrusted with high offices in the commonwealth,and have had the privilege of entering into holy placesand temples." But what makes me most to regret thewant of that history in our present copies of Josephus, isthis, that we have here, as it is commonly understood,one of the greatest difficulties in all the Bible, I meanthat in 2 Kings v. 18, 19. where Naaman, after he hadbeen miraculously cured by a prophet of the true God,and had thereupon promised, that he would thenceforthoffer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifices unto other gods,but unto the Lord; adds, "In this thing the Lord pardonthy servant, that when my master goeth into the houseof Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on myhand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon; whenI bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, theLord pardon thy servant in this thing." And Elisha saidunto him, "Go in peace." This looks like a prophet'spermission for being partaker in idolatry itself, out ofcompliance with an idolatrous court. The Septuagint inour ordinary copies, plainly understood it so, by usingthe verb bowing down, in the future tense; althoughTheodoret cites it as in the past tense. And the greatBochart has shewn, that in the original, it more properlybelongs to the times past, Op. page 892, 894, 898. andonly contains his desire of pardon for what he had for­merly done, while he was a gross idolater; and not ofbeing indulged in any such thing for the time to come.The permission of which seems utterly inconsistent withboth the Old ai*New Testament. It is therefore a greatpity that Josephus's copies should be defective in so re­markable a place. Nor is it very unlikely, that whatJosephus promised to speak of afterward, V. 1. concerningthe curse on the rebuilder of Jericho, but is not nowfound in his present books, was contained in what is herewanting upon occasion of Elisha's miracle there, 2 Kingsii. 18—22.