OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. fanaticism often prompted its ministers to sanctify the most daringand the most unjust enterprises, by the approbation of Heaven, andfull assurances of success. The consecrated standards, long reveredin the groves of superstition, were placed in the front of thebattle 67; and the hostile army was devoted with dire execrationsto the gods of war and of thunder 6*. In the faith of soldiers (andsuch were the Germans) cowardice is the most unpardonable offins. A brave man was the worthy favourite of their martialdeities; the wretch, who had lost his shield, was alike banislied fromthe religious and the civil assemblies of his countrymen. Some tribesof the north seem to have embraced the doctrine of transmigration6',others imagined a gross paradise of immortal drunkenness 7°. Allagreed, that a life spent in arms, and a glorious death in battle,were the best preparations for a happy futurity, either in this or inanother world. The immortality so vainly promised by the priests, was, in some The bards,degree, conferred by the bards. That singular order of men hasmost deservedly attracted the notice of all who have attemptedto investigate the antiquities of the Celts, the Scandinavians, andthe Germans. Their genius and character, as well as the reverencepaid to their important office, have been sufficiently illustrated.But we cannot so easily express, or even conceive, the enthusiasmof arms and glory, which they kindled in the breast of their au­dience. Among a polished people, a taste for poetry is rather anamusement of the fancy, than a passion of the soul. And yet, whenin calm retirement we peruse the combats described by Homer orTaflb, we are insensibly seduced by the fiction, and feel a momentaryglow of martial ardour. But how faint, how cold is the sensationwhich a peaceful mind can receive from solitary study! It was in thehour of battle, or in the feast of victory, that the bards celebratedthe glory of heroes of ancient days, the ancestors of those warlikechieftains, who listened with transport to their artless but ani- H h 2 mated