OCR Output 296 ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. Book XIV. CHAP. XIII. Harm Antony made Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, after theyhad been accused to no purpose; and how the Parthians, whenthey brought Antigonus into Judea, took Hyrcanus and Pha-saelus captives. Herod's fight,- and what afflictions Hyrcanusand Phasaelus endured. $ 1. WHEN after this Antony came into Syria, Cleopatramet him in Cilicia, and brought him to fall in love with her.And there came now also a hundred of the most potent of theJews to accuse Herod and those about him, and set the menof the greatest eloquence among them to speak. But Messalacontradicted them, on behalf of the young men, and all thisin the presence of Hyrcanus, who was * Herod's father-in-lawalready. When Antony had heard both sides at Daphne, heasked Hyrcanus who they were that governed the nation best?He replied, Herod and his friends. Hereupon Antony, by rea­son of the old hospitable friendship he had made with his father[Antipater,] at that time when he was with Gubinius, he madeboth Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, and committed the publicaffairs of the Jews to them, and wrote letters to that purpose.He also bound fifteen of their adversaries, and was going to killthem, but that Herod obtained their pardon. 2. Yet did not these men continue quiet when they were comeback, but a thousand of the Jews came to Tyre to meet himthere, whither the report was that he would come. But Anto­ny was corrupted by the money which Herod and his brotherhad given him, and so he gave order to the governor of the placeto punish the Jewish ambassadors, who were for making inno-'vations, and to settle the government upon Herod: but Herodwent out hastily to them, and Hyrcanus was with him (for theystood upon the shore before the city,) and he charged them togo their ways, because great mischief would befall them if theywent on with their accusation. But they did not acquiesce:whereupon the Romans ran upon them with their daggers, andslew some, and wounded more of them, and the rest fled awayand went home, and lay still in great consternation: and whenthe people made a clamour against Herod, Antony was so pro­voked at.it that he slew the prisoners. 3. Now, in the second year, Pacorus, the king of Parthia's * We may here take notice, that espousals alone were of old esteemed a sufficientfoundation for affmity, Hyrcanus being here called father-in-law to Herod, becausehis grand daughter Mariamne was betrothed to him, although the marriage wasnot completed till four years afterward. See Mat. i. 16.