OCR Output SICILIA. SICILIA. 981 smson, sad still secured him a footing ia Sicily,ni M till after a long blockade that his sonfames was compelled to surrender it into thekof Dies, who thus became master of Syracuse,354. But the success of Dion was far fromrise liberty to Sicily, or even to the Syracusans:Orotic proceedings of Dion excited universalctrnt, and he was at length assassinated byppu, we of his own officers, B. c. 353. The4 :hst followed was one of great confusion, but vhich we are very imierfectly acquainted,naive revolutions occurred at Syracuse, during) tlx younger Dionysius found means to effectituro, and became once more master of Ortygia.I» mt of the city was still held by a leaderi Siretas, who called in the assistance of theupoiaoa. Ortygia was now besieged both by•1 land by a Carthaginan fleet and army. Iti ti» state of things that a party at Syracuse,y opposed to Hicetas and Dionysius, had re-ito the parent city of Corinth, and a small force(W sJdiers was sent to their assistance underrat, B.C. 344. His successes were rapid andtt; and within leas than two months from hisf in Sicily, he found himself unexpectedly in■ueuion of Ortygia, which was voluntarily '■ J to him by Dionysius. Uicctas and thewere, however, still masters of thethe city; but mistrust and disunion enfeebleddeface: the Carthaginian general Magoni'y mtJidrew his forces, and Timolcon easilyi the city from the hands of lli.rt.i-.43. rae was now restored to liberty and a de­le f'rrn of government; and the same changeidly extended to the other Greek cities of These had thrown off the yoke of Syracusethe disturbed period through which they had'passed, but had, with few exceptions, fallen> hands of local despots, who had establishedt** in the possession of absolute power. Suchheetaa himself st Leontini, Mamcrcus atand Hrppon st Messana, while minor despots,ireek origin, had obtained in like manner the>wer in the Siculian cities of Apollonia,» and Atfyritim. Timoleon now turned his•Drceasion against all these petty rulers, and* them one after another, restoring the citycase to the possession of independent and-COTernment. Meanwhile the Greeks hadtatrnad with a more general danger from a "i.-.rnm invasion; but the total defeat ofwrals Handrubat and Hamilcar at the riveri (b. c. 340), one of the most brilliant andvictories ever gained by the Greeks over thenana, put an end to all fears from that and the peace that followed once moresi (be Halvcus as the boundary between thens (Died. XT. 17). storatioa of the Sicilian Greeks to libertyKm, was followed by s period of greatf. Many of the cities had suffered severely,ci the exactions of their despotic rulers, ortroubles and revolutions that had takenit toes* were now recruited with freshfrom Corinth, and other cities of Greece,red into the island in vast numbers; there everywhere restored, and a fresh impulse ■ be given to the development of Hellenic ■ ia to* island. Unfortunately this periodIf prosperity was of short duration. Only twenty three years after the battle of the Crimisu*,a despotism was again established st Syracuse byAgathocles (n. c. 317), an adventurer who raisedhimself to power by very much the same means :tsthe elder Dionysius, whom he resembled in energyand ability, while be even surpassed him in san­guinary and unsparing severity. The reign ofAgathocles (b.c 317 289) was undoubtedly aperiod that exercised the most disastrous influenceover Sicily; it was occupied in great part with in­ternal dissensions anil civil wars, as well as by longcontinued struggle* between the Greeks and Car­thaginians. Like Dionysius, Agathocles had, in thefirst instance, made use of Carthaginian support, toestablish himself in the possession of despotic power,but as he gradually extended his aggressions, andreduced one Greek city after another under hisauthority, he in his turn came into fresh colli.-ionwith Carthage. In B.C. 310, he was defeated at theriver Himera, near the hill of Ecnomus, by theCarthaginian general Hamilcar, in so decisive abattle that it seemed to extinguish all his hopes:bis allies and dependent cities quickly threw off bityoke, and Syracuse itself was once more blockadedby a Carthaginian fleet. In this extremity Aga­thocles adopted the daring resolution of transportinghis army to Africa, and carrying on the war at thevery gates of Carthage. During bis absence (whichwas protracted for nearly four years, B.C. 310—307)Hamilcar had brought a Urge part of Sicily underthe dominion of Carthage, but was foiled in all hisattempts npon Syracuse, and at length was himselftaken prisoner in a night attack, and put to death.The Agrigentines, whose .lame had been scarcelymentioned for a long period, but whose city appearsto have been revived under Timoleon, and now againappears as one of the most considerable in Sicily,made a fruitless attempt to raise the banner of tn-e-dom and independence, while the Syracusan exileDeinocrales, at the head of a large army of exilesand mercenaries, maintained a sort of independentposition, aloof from all parties. But Agathocles. onhis return from Africa, concluded peace with Car­thage, and entered into a compromise with Demo-crates, while he established his own power st Syra­cuse by a fearful massacre of all that were opposedto him. >'or the last twelve years of his reign(b.c. 301—289), his dominion seems to have beenfirmly established over Syracuse and a great i ■ ■ rtof Sicily, so that he was at liberty to follow oat bisambitious schemes in the south of Italy andelsewhere. After the death of Agathocles (b. c. 289), Sicilyseems to have fallen into a state of great confusion;Syracuse apparently still retained its predominantposition among the Greek cities, under a d« ~ p *named Hicetas: but Agrigentum, which had alsofallen into the hands of a despot named Phinlias,was raised to a position that almost enabled it todispute the supremacy. Phintias extended hisdominion over several other cities, and having madehimself master of Gela, utterly destroyed it, in orderto found and people a new city at the mouth of theriver Himera, to which he gave the name of Fhintias.This was the last Greek city founded in Sicily.Meanwhile the Carthaginians were becoming moioand more preponderant in the island, and the Greekswere at length led to invoke the assistance ofPyrrhus, king of Epirus, who was at this timecarrying on war in Italy against the tomans. Hereadily listened to their overtures, and landed in 3 R 9