OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 495 of God,1 who are ever found to have had an entire certaintyof those their revelations: and what evidently shows they werenot deceived is this, that the events and consequences of thingsafterward always corresponded, and secured them of thetruth of such divine revelations. Thus, the first miraculousvoice from heaven,2 calling to Abraham not to execute thiscommand, and the performance of these eminent promisesmade by the second voice,3 on account of his obedience tothat command, are demonstrations that Abraham's commissionfor what he did was truly divine, and are an entire justifica­tion of his conduct in this matter. The words of the firstvoice from heaven will come hereafter to be set down in afitter place, but the glorious promises made to Abraham'sobedience by the second voice must here be produced fromverses 15, 16, 17, 18. "And the angel of the Lord calledunto Abraham out of heaven the second time, and said, Bymyself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hastdone this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine onlyson, from me, that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multi­plying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and asthe sand which is upon the sea-shore; and thy seed shallpossess the gate of his enemies: and in thy seed shall all thenations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed myvoice." Every one of which promises have been eminentlyfulfilled ; and, what is chiefly remarkable, the last and prin­cipal of them, that in Abraham's seed all the nations of theearth should be blessed, was never promised till this time. Ithad been twice promised him, chap. xii. vi. 3, and xviii. 18,that in himself should all the families of the earth be blessed;but that this blessing was to belong to future times, and tobe bestowed by the means of one of his late posterity, theMessias, that great seed and son of Abraham only, was neverrevealed before, but, on such an amazing instance of his faithand obedience as was this his readiness to offer up his onlybegotten son Isaac was now first promised, and has been longago performed, in the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, the son of ' Isniah, xli. 8. » Gen. xxii. 11, 12. » Gen. xxii. 17, 18.