OCR Output CHAP. L. 309 the companion and brother of the noble youth. The ex­pedient was crowned with success; the holy fraternitywas respected both in peace and war, and the two par­ties vied with each other in a generous emulation ofcourage and fidelity. Once only the concord wasslightly ruffled by an accidental quarrel; a patriot ofMedina arraigned the insolence of the strangers, but thehint of their expulsion was heard with abhorrence, andhis own son most eagerly offered to lay at the apostle'sfeet the head of his father. His regal From his establishment at Medina, MahometA.^.'ezs assumed the exercise of the regal and sacerdo-—63s. tal office; and it was impious to appeal from ajudge whose decrees were inspired by the divine wisdom.A small portion of ground, the patrimony of two orphans,was acquired by gift or purchase ;f on that chosen spot,he built a house and a mosch, more venerable in their rudesimplicity than the palaces and temples of the Assyriancaliphs. His seal of gold, or silver, was inscribed withthe apostolic title: when he prayed and preached inthe weekly assembly, he leaned against the trunk of apalm-tree; and it was long before he indulged himselfin the use of a chair or pulpit of rough timber.5 Aftera reign of six years, fifteen hundred Moslems, in armsand in the field, renewed their oath of allegiance; andtheir chief repeated the assurance of protection till thedeath of the last member, or the final dissolution of thepasty. It was in the same camp that the deputy ofMecca was astonished by the attention of the faithful to f Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 44.) reviles the wickednes of the impostor, whodespoiled two poor orphans, the sons of a carpenter; a reproach which he drewfrom the Disputatio contra Saracenos, composed in Arabic before the year 1130;but the honest Gagnier (ad Abulfed. p. 53.) has shewn that they were deceivedby the word At Nagjar, which signifies, in this place, not an obscure trade, bat anoble tribe of Arabs. The desolate state of the ground is described by Abulfeda;and his worthy interpreter has proved from Al Bochari, the offer of a price; fromAl Jannabi, the fair purchase; and from Ahmed Ben Joseph, the payment of themoney by the generous Abubeker. On these grounds the prophet must be honour­ably acquitted. f Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. p. 246. 324.) describes the seal and pulpit,as two venerable relics of the apostle of God; and the portrait of his court »aien from Abolfeda. (c. 44. p. 85.)