OCR Output 480 ROMAN EMPIRE. race, the pious Omar, was dissatisfied with his own title:their personal virtues were insufficient to justify a de­parture from the order of succession; and the eyes andwishes of the faithful were turned towards the line ofHashem and the kindred of the apostle of God. Of thesethe Fatimites were either rash or pusillanimous; but thedescendants of Abbas cherished, with courage and dis­cretion, the hopes of their rising fortunes. From an ob­scure residence in Syria, they secretly dispatched theiragents and missionaries, who preached in the easternprovinces their hereditary indefeasible right; and Mo­hammed, the son of Ali, the son of Abdallah, the son ofAbbas, the uncle of the prophet, gave audience to thedeputies of Chorasan, and accepted their free gift of fourhundred thousand pieces of gold. After the death ofMohammed, the oath of allegiance was administered inthe name of his son Ibrahim to a numerous band of vo­taries, who expected only a signal and a leader; and thegovernor of Chorasan continued to deplore his fruitlessadmonitions and the deadly slumber of the caliphs ofDamascus, till he himself, with all his adherents, wasdriven from the city and palace of Meru, by the rebel­lious arms of Abu Moslem."1 Thatmaker of kings, theauthor, as he is named, of the call of the Abbassides,was at length rewarded for his presumption of merit withthe usual gratitude of courts. A mean, perhaps a fo­reign, extraction, could not repress the aspiring energyof Abu Moslem. Jealous of his wives, liberal of hiswealth, prodigal of his own blood and of that of others,he could boast with pleasure, and possibly with truth,that he had destroyed six hundred thousand of his ene­mies; and such was the intrepid gravity of his mind andcountenance, that he was never seen to smile except on 10 The steed and the saddle, which had carried any of his wives, were instantlykilled or burnt, lest they should be afterward mounted by a male. Twelve hundredmules or camels were required for his kitchen furniture; and the daily consump­tion amounted to three thousand cakes, a hundred sheep, besides oxen, poultry,&c. (Abulpharagius, Hist. Dynast, p. 140.)