OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. suspicion is propagated by the secret arts of his discipleAnthemius.' A citizen of Tralles in Asia had five sons,who were all distinguished in their respective professionsby merit and success. Olympius excelled in the know­ledge and practice of the Roman jurisprudence. Dios-corus and Alexander became learned physicians; butthe skill of the former was exercised for the benefit ofhis fellow-citizens, while his more ambitious brothers ac­quired wealth and reputation at Rome. The fame ofMetrodorus the grammarian, and of Anthemius the ma­thematician and architect, reached the ears of the em­peror Justinian, who invited them to Constantinople;and while the one instructed the rising generation in theschools of eloquence, the other filled the capital and pro­vinces with more lasting monuments of his art. In atrifling dispute, relative to the walls or windows of theircontiguous houses, he had been vanquished by the elo­quence of his neighbour Zeno; but the orator was de­feated in his turn by the master of mechanics, whosemalicious, though harmless, stratagems, are darkly re­presented by the ignorance of Agathias. In a lowerroom, Anthemius arranged several vessels, or cauldrons,of water, each of them covered by the wide bottom of aleathern tube, which rose to a narrow top, and was arti­ficially conveyed among the joists and rafters of the adja­cent building. A fire was kindled beneath the cauldron;the steam of the boiling water ascended through thetubes; the house was shaken by the efforts of imprison­ed air, and its trembling inhabitants might wonder thatthe city was unconscious of the earthquake, which theyhad felt. At another time, the friends of Zeno, as theysat at table, were dazzled by the intolerable light whichflashed in their eyes from the reflecting mirrors of An­themius; they were astonished by the noise which heproduced from a collision of certain minute and sono- 1 Agathias lib. 5. p. 149—Ib'i. The merit of Antbemina a» an architect i>loudly praised bj Piocopius (de lidif. lib. 1. c. 1.) and Paulus Sileuliarius, (pari1.134,&c.)