OCR Output 82 TITUS L1VIUS* BOOK I. prodigy, immediately repairs to the Tiber. In the meantime, the Romans sacrificed the heifer to Diana,' whichgave universal satisfaction to the king and all the city. A. CHAP. XLVI. Tullita accused by young Tarquin.- I.LTHOUGII hong possession had now establishedServius ou the throne; yet, because lie heard that you ui;Tarquin was sometimes giving out, that he had usurpedthe sovereignty, without the consent of the people, hav­ing first secured their good will, by dividing amongthem, impartially, the conquered lands, he then ventur­ed to put the question, " Whether they willed and com­manded him to be their king?" Upon which they re­cognized him king, with an unanimity scarce ever knownbefore. But this was so far from discouraging Tarquinor giving a check to his ambition, that it only confirm­ed his hopes: for, besides the impetuosity of his owntemper, he was constantly dunned with the solicitationsof his wife Tullia; he was not ignorant, that the divisionof the conquered lands among the people, was not agree­able to the fathers, and therefore, he concluded, that hehad a noble opportunity, in accusing Servius to the se­nate, of raking bis own reputation. This produced a scene of the most inhumyi and savagecruelty in the court of Rome: That the people disgustedat monarchy, might the sooner enjoy the sweets of liber­ty, and that he should be the last king, who should usurpthe title, by the commission of the work of crimes, thisLucius Tarquinius, (whether he was the son or grandsonof Tarquiuios Priscus, is a question; but out of respectto most authors, I shall call him his sorr) had a brothercalled Aruns Tarquinius, remarkable for sweetness of.disposition. To these brothers, as we have formerly ob­served, the two Tullias, the king's daughters, who were'also very different in their tempers, had been married.It had so happened, by the good fortune, very probably,of the Roman people, that the two violent tempers werenot united, by which means the life of Servius was pro­longed, to form the morals of the state.