OCR Output 84 [book lit ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mours about them ran abroad, which excitedgreat fear in the inhabitants of those coun­tries: accordingly they sent ambassadors toone another, and exhorted each other to de­fend themselves, and to endeavour to destroythese men. Those that induced the rest todo so, were such as inhabited Gobilitis andPetra; they were called Amalekites,* andwere the most warlike of the nations thatlived thereabout, and whose kings exhortedone another, and their neighbours, to engagein this war against the Hebrews, telling themthat an army of strangers, who had ran aM'ayfrom slavery under the Egyptians, lay in waitto ruin them; which army they were not incommon prudence, and regard to their ownsafety, to overlook, but to crush them beforethey should gather strength, and come to bein prosperity: and perhaps attack them firstin an hostile manner, as presuming upon theirindolence in not attacking them before; andthat they ought to avenge themselves for whathad been done in the wilderness; but thatthis could not be so well done when the He­brews had once laid their hands on theircities and goods; that those who endeavouredto crush a power in its first rise, were wiserthan those that attempted to stop its progress,when it became formidable; as these lastseem to be angry only at the flourishing ofothers, but the former do not leave any roomfor their enemies to become troublesome tothem. After they had sent such ambassagesto the neighbouring nations, and among eachother, they resolved to attack the Hebrewsin battle. These proceedings of the people of thosecountries occasioned perplexity and troubleto Moses, who expected no such warlike pre­parations: and when these nations were readyto fight, the multitude of the Hebrews wereobliged to try the fortune of war; they were in great disorder, and in want of all neces­saries, and yet were to make war with menwho were well prepared for it. Then it was,therefore, that Moses began to encouragethem, and to exhort them to have a goodheart, and rely on God's assistance by whichthey had been advanced into a state of free­dom, and to hope for victory over those whowere ready to fight with them in order to de­prive them of that blessing. He said theywere to suppose their own army to be nume­rous, wanting nothing, neither weapons, normoney, nor provisions, nor such other con­veniences as when men are in possession of,they fight undauntedly, and that they were tojudge themselves to have all these advantagesin the Divine assistance. They were also tosuppose the enemies' army to be small, un­armed, and weak, and such as want thoseconveniences which they know must bewanted when it is God's will that they shouldbe beaten. He reminded them that they hadexperienced the value of God's assistance inabundance of trials, and those such as weremore terrible than war; for that is only againstmen, but these were against famine and thirst,things that were in their own nature insu­perable; as also against mountains, and thatsea which affording them no way for esca­ping; yet had all these difficulties been con­quered by God's gracious kindness: so heexhorted them to be courageous at this time,and to consider their entire prosperity to de­pend on the present conquest of their ene­mies. Moses having thus encouraged the multi­tude, called together the princes of theirtribes, and their chief men, both separatelyand jointly. The young men he charged toobey their elders, and the elders to hearkento their leader; so the people were elevatedin their minds, and ready to try their fortune * The Amalekites were a people descended from Ama-lek, the son of Eliphaz, the son of Esau, by a concubine,Gen. xxxvi. 12. And the ground of their enmity againstthe Israelites is generally supposed to have been an innatehatred, from the remembrance of Jacob's depriving theirprogenitor, both of his birth-right and blessing. Theirfalling upon them, however, and that without any provo­cation, when they saw them reduced to so low a conditionby the fitigue of their march, and the excessive droughtthey laboured under, was an inhuman action, and justlydeserved the defeat which Joshua gave them. Bu* thenthe reason why God thought fit to denounce a perpetualwar against them, is to be resolved into this :•—That know- ing the Israelites were pre-ordained by God to be put inpossession of the land of Canaan, they came against themwith an armed force, in hopes of frustrating the designs ofProvidence concerning them. And this is the reason whichMoses himself assigns for this declaration of war; becausehis (i. e. Amalek's j hand is agaiiist the throne of God, (i. e. Jagainst God himself) therefore the Lord will wage war Eagainst him from one generation to another. Exod. xviyg16. The injury done the Israelites was not so much as tlgppaffront offered to the divine Majesty; and therefore Gjsfodthreatens utterly to extirpate the' designers of it. r/nnH§ff.sal History, 1. I.c. 7. and Patrick's Commentary. B. =§ f"