OCR Output go ROMAN EMPIRE. Were obeyed only under the pressure of military force.A generous effort might have redeemed the religion andliberty of Egypt, and he* six hundred monasteries mighthave pouted forth their myriads of holy warriors, fromwhom death should have no terrors, since life had nocomfort or delight. But experience has proved the disAtinction of active and passive courage; the fanatic wb.6endures without a groan the torture of the rack or thestake, would tremble and fly before the face of an armedenemy. Tire pusillanimous temper of the Egyptianscould only hope for a change of masters; the arms ofChosroes depopulated the land 5 yet under his reign theJacobites enjoyed a short and precarious respite. Thevictory of Heraclius renewed and aggravated the perse­cution, and the patriarch again escaped from Alexandriato the desert. In his flight, Benjamin was en-o,e jaco- couraged by a voice, which bade him expect, attriarc£ the end of ten years, the aid of a foreign nation,mar^e(l like the Egyptians themselves with theancient rite of circumcision. The character ofthese deliverers, and the nature of the deliverance,will be hereafter explained; and I shall step over theinterval of eleven centuries to observe the present mi^sery of the Jacobites of Egypt. The populous city 6fCairo affords a residence or rather a shelter for theirindigent patriarch, and a remnant of ten bishops: fortymonasteries have survived the inroads of the Arabs; andthe progress of servitude and apostacy has reduced theGoptid nation to the despicable number of twenty-five6* thirty thousand families ;k a race of illiterate beggars,whose only consolation is derived from the superior k This number is taken from the cariousRecherchei sur Irs EgyptienR et IPS CM-nois, (torn. 2. p. 192,193.) and appears more probable than the six hundred thousandmini ut, or fiftron thousand modern, Copts of Gemelli < nrreri. Cyril Lucar, theProtestant patriarch of Constantinople, laments that those heretics were ten timesmore mnm-niiis than his orthodox Greeks, ingeniously applying the «hWu» xtv J.»=-St; )I[»UTO Mny_iM of Homer, (Iliad. 2. 128.) the most perfect expression of con­tempt, (fabric. Lux'tivahgelii, MO. i