OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 12i> to set out. A little before day the troops moved also,but stopped in a body at the gate, whence guards weresent round to all the other avenues, to prevent any onegoing out of the city. Those who had arrived the daybefore were then summoned to an assembly, and theyran together into the forum to the general's tribunal inthe most turbulent manner, intending to excite terrorby their tumultuous shouts. Just as the general wastaking his seat the troops, who had been recalled fromthe gates, spread themselves round, under arms, be­hind the unarmed assembly. On this all the arroganceof the latter sunk at once; and, as they afterwardsconfessed, nothing terrified them so much as the unex­pected vigor and complexion of the general, whomthey ha.d expected to see in a sickly state—his counte­nance showing more sternness, they said, than theyhad ever remembered to have seen even in battle. Hesat silent for a short time, until he was told that theauthors of the mutiny were brought into the forum,and that all things were prepared. 27. Then, a herald having commanded silence, hebegan thus: 'Never did I imagine that I should be inwant of language to address my own army: not that Iever gave more attention to words than to business;for, having lived in camps almost from my childhood, Iwas ever well acquainted with the soldier's way of think­ing. But, with what sentiments, or in what terms, Ishould speak to you, I am intirely at a loss. I knownot even what appellation I ought to give you. Can Icall you countrymen, who have revolted from yourcountry; or soldiers, who have renounced obedienceto command, and broke through the obligation ofyour oath; or enemies? I behold, indeed, the per­sons, faces, habit, mien of my fellow-citizens; but Iperceive the actions, words, schemes, dispositions offoes: for what other object did your hopes and wishesaim at, than the same which was proposed by theIllergetians and Lacetans? They however chose forleaders in their mad enterprise Mandonius and Indi-bilis, men of royal distinction: you conferred su- LIV. VOL. V. I