OCR Output C. IV.] IS BURNED. 2G9 some of them were distracted with fighting, and others withpassion. But as for the legions that came running thither,neither any persuasions nor any threatenings could restraintheir violence; but each one's own passion was his commanderat this time; and as they were crowding into the temple to­gether, many of them were trampled on by one another,while a great number fell among the ruins of the cloisters,which were still hot and smoking, and were destroyed in thesame miserable way with those whom they had conquered:and when they were come near the holy house, they made as;f they did not so much as hear Caesar's orders to the con­trary ; but they encouraged those that were before them toset it on fire. As for the seditious, they were in too greatdistress already to afford their assistance [towards quenchingthe fire:] they were every where slain, and every where beat­en; and as for a great part of the people, they were weak,and without arms, and had their throats cut wherever theywere caught. Now round about the altar lay dead bodiesheaped one upon another, as at the stepsl going up to it rana great quantity of their blood, whither also the dead bodiesthat were slain above [on the altar] fell down. 7. And now, since Caesar was no way able to restrain theenthusiastic fury of the soldiers, and the fire proceeded onmore and more, he went into the holy place of the temple,with his commanders, and saw it, with what was in it, whichhe found to be far superior to what the relations of foreignerscontained, and not inferior to what wc ourselves boasted ofand believed about it. But as the flame had not as yetreached to its inward parts, but was still consuming the roomsthat were about the holy house, and Titus supposing, whatthe fact was, that the house itself might yet be saved, he camoup in haste, and endeavored to persuade the soldiers to These steps to the altar of burnt-offering, seem here cither an improperand inaccurate expression of Josephus, since it was unlawful to make laddersteps (see the description of the temples, chap. xiii. and note ou Antiq. 15.iv. ch. viii. sect. 5,) or else those steps or stairs we now use were inventedbefore the days of Herod the Great, and had been here built by him; thoughthe later Jews always deny it, and say, that even Herod's altar was ascendedto by an acclivity only. 23 *