OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLI. ror. His departure was secret; but as soon as the Van­dals discovered that their king had deserted them, theyhastily dispersed, anxious only for their personal safety,and careless of every object that is dear or valuable tomankind. The Romans entered the camp without re­sistance; and the wildest scenes of disorder were veiledin the darkness and confusion of the night. Every bar­barian who met their swords was inhumanly massacred;their widows and daughters, as rich heirs, or beautifulconcubines, were embraced by the licentious soldiers;and avarice itself was almost satiated with the treasuresof gold and silver, the accumulated fruits of conquest oreconomy in a long period of prosperity and peace. Inthis frantic search, the troops, even of Belisarius, forgottheir caution and respect. Intoxicated with lust and ra­pine, they explored in small parties, or alone, the adja­cent fields, the woods, the rocks, and the caverns, thatmight possibly conceal any desirable prize: laden withbooty, they deserted their ranks, and wandered, withouta guide, on the high road to Carthage ; and if the flyingenemies had dared to return, very few of the conquerorswould have escaped. Deeply sensible of the disgraceand danger, Belisarius passed an apprehensive night inthe field of victory: at the dawn of day, he planted hisstandard on a hill, recalled his guards and veterans, andgradually restored the modesty and obedience of thecamp. It was equally the concern of the Roman general tosubdue the hostile, and to save the prostrate barbarian;and the suppliant Vandals, who could be found only inchurches, were protected by his authority, disarmed, andseparately confined, that they might neither disturb thepublic peace, nor become the victims of popular revenge.After dispatching a light detachment to tread the foot­steps of Gelimer, he advanced with his whole army,about ten days' march, as far as Hippo Regius, which nolonger possessed the relics of St. Augustin/ The season, * The relics nf St. Aognttin were carried by the African hishops to their Sardinianexile; (A. D. 500.) and it was believed in the eighth century, that Liutprand, king