OCR Output \. 1,.22.] 179 OF TACITUS. -,w.'. style, ambiguous and inexplicable. He com-. b led the zeal of the fathers, even in a matter of10 importance, but he desired that, for the future, riu alone should not be punished with so much.,..j pitation. He praised the humanity of Lepidus,yjt , ound no fault with Agrippa. This produced a 1 e, by which it was enacted, that no sentence of.' pronation should, for the future, be sent to thel. ary, till the tenth day after passing it; and in theinterval, execution was to be suspended. The fathers,however, were not to have the power of rejudgingtheir own acts, or revoking their sentence. The ap­peal was to be to Tiberius, and no time could softenthat implacable temper. LII. Caius Sulpicius and Decimus Heterius werethe next consuls. The year was free from foreigncommotions; but at Rome new laws were expected tocheck the growth of luxury, and that apprehensionspread a general alarm. The prodigality of the timeshad risen to the highest pitch. In many articles ofexpense, and those the heaviest, the real price mightbe concealed i but the cost of the table was too wellunderstood. The profusion, with which luxury wasmaintained, could not remain a secret. It was there­fore apprehended, that a prince, addicted to the fru­gality of ancient manners, would endeavour by severei emulations to control the mischief. The subject was opened in the senate by Caius Bi-bulus, one of the sediles: his colleague joined to sup­port him. They stated that the sumptuary lawswere fallen into contempt. The extravagance in fur­niture and utensils, though prohibited, grew everyday more enormous, insomuch that, by modern pe­nalties, the mischief was not to be cured. The se­nate, without further debate, referred the whole tothe consideration of the emperor. Tiberius weighedevery circumstance: he knew that passions, whichhad taken root could not be easily weeded out of theheart: he considered how far coercive measures mightbe a public grievance. If an unsuccessful attemptgave a victory to vice, the defeat he saw would be adisgrace to government; and tho necessity of waging,