OCR Output LIVY. fell into the hands of the soldiers. This they were ob­liged to sell in like manner as the former; and thoughno rest was allowed them, they proceeded, never­theless, with the utmost alacrity to Ferentinum. Buthere they met a greater share both of difficulty anddanger: the garrison made a vigorous defence, andthe place was strongly fortified both by nature and art.However, the soldiers, now inured to plunder, over­came every obstacle. Three thousand of the enemywere killed round the walls, and the spoil was given tothe troops. In some annals the principal share of thehonor of taking these cities is attributed to Maximus.They say that Murgantia was taken by Decius; Ro-mulea and Ferentinum by Fabius. Some ascribe thishonor to the new consuls: others not to both, but toone of these—Lucius Volumnius, whose province theysay Samnium was. 18. While things went on thus in Samnium, andwhoever it was that had the command and auspices,another powerful combination, composed of manystates, was formed in Etruria against the Romans, thechief promoter of which was Gellius Egnatius, a Sam-nite. Almost all the Etrurians had united in this hos­tile design. The neighboring states of Umbria weredrawn in, as it were, by contagion ; and auxiliarieswere procured from the Gauls for hire: all their seve­ral numbers assembled at the camp of the Samnites.When intelligence of this sudden commotion was re­ceived at Rome, the consul, Lucius Volumnius, hadalready set out for Samnium, with the second andthird legions, and fifteen thousand of the allies ; itwas therefore resolved that Appius Claudius should,without loss of time, go into Etruria. He took withhim two Roman legions, the first and fourth, andtwelve thousand allies, and encamped at a small dis­tance from the enemy. However, his early arrival,though productive of one good effect, the restraining,by dread of the Roman name, several states of Etru­ria who were inclined to war, yet was not followed byany very judicious or successful enterprise. Several