OCR Output ROMA. ROMA 613 tm m abo a Velabrum Minns, which it Urani to mppote wu not far distant from the•ubrun Majua. V'arro says that there was inr Vckbrum Jlinus a lake or pond formed fromtutfphna; called Laitolae, near the temple of. j'nm.nu3 (Ib. § 156); and Panlus Diaconusll9)d(Knbes the Latulae as being "locus extraml* Hence it would seem that the Janusmau alluded to by Vairo, must have been the«Je sear the Porta Carmen talis; bat both the ■ u»l the lake had vanished jin the time ofm, aad (ere no longer anything but matters of Tu Aires Arorstarius already mentioned as&car the church of S.Gionjio in Vtlabro ap-■y from the inscription, to have been erected byV; f.ualtt and Argeutarii uf the Forum Boariumtaaar of Septimioa Severus and his family,w, cchv. 2; OrelL 913.) Properly speaking,v arch, the lintel being horizontal instead of■'<. It is covered with ill-executed sculptures. ■ to it stands the Urge square building calledn Qcadrifrons, vaulted in the interior, and■f a large archway in each front. The building* tipper story, which is said to have been usedTTToutile purposes. The architecture belongsoniming period of art, and the arch seems to> tars constructed with fragments of other build- ■ shown by the inverted bas-reliefs on someat pieces. (Betckr. iii. p. 339.) The Notitia 0 tot description of Regio xi. by mentioning anla Coostantini," which cannot, of course, refer ■ triumphal arch on the other side of theto* The conjecture of Bunscn, thereforesir .I'll., iii. p. 663), does not seem impro-,that tins Janus was meant; and from its style 1 in tare it might very well belong to the timeMafjaa, ■ I kih Boakiim. one of the largest andeskaratsd places in Rome, apiears to have ex-i :rau the Velsbrum as far as the ascent toimrnne, and to have included in breadth the•pace between the Palatine and Circus Maximusit aad the Tiber on the W. Thus it must notomed aa a regular forum or market surrounded•sib or poj ticoes, but as a large irregular spacetard either hy natural boundaries or by those ofcatrjcta. Its connection with the river on the ■ and the circus on the other is attested by theJ{ ones of Ovid (FcuL vu 477):— antes ct Magoo juncta est celeberrima Circo-r-ise poaito de bove nutnen huoet." •a baa been variously derived. The referringla the cattle of Hercules is a mere poeticaliPrritt v. 9. 17, acq-); and the derivation ofI the statue of a bronze bull captured attsal erected in this place, though apparentlyaussak, is equally destitute of foundation,se nana is incontestably much older thanndauas War. (Plin. xxxiv. 5; Ov. I. e.;em. xi. J4.) It seems, therefore, most pre­ss Varo says (£.£. v. § 146; cf. Paul.. Jo), -hai it deriTed its name from the use ■ < was put. namely, from being the ancientsarirt; and it would appear from the in- ■ aa tie Arcus Argentarius before alluded*.;■ traffic still subsisted in the third cen-TVa Farana Boarinm was rich in temples ■ i s Hi «/ the ancient times. Amongst theu«s were those of Hercules, Fortuna, and Mater Matuta; but unfortunately the positions of'them are not very precisely indicated. There seemsto have been more than one Temple ok Herculesin this district, since the notices which we meet withon the subject cannot possibly be all referred to thesame temple. The most ancient and important onemust have been that connected with the Magna AkaHkrcui.18, which tradition represented as havingbeen founded by Kvander. (" Et magna ara fa-numque, quae praesenti Herculi Areas Evander sacra-verat," Tac. Ann. XT. 41; cf. Ib. xii. 24; Solin.i. 10.) This appears to have been the Herculesstyled triuniphalis, whose statue, during the cele­bration of triumphs, was clothed in the costume of atriumphant general; since a passage in Pliny con­nects it with that consecrated by Evander. (" Hen-cules ab Evandro sncratus ut produnt, in ForoBoario, qui triumphalis vocatur atque per triumphosvestitur habitu triumphali," xxxiv. 16.) It wasprobably this temple of Hercules into which it wassaid that neither dogs nor flies could find admittance(Ib. x. 41; Solin. i. 10), and which was adorned witha painting by Pacuvius the poet (Plin. xxxv. 7). ARound Temple of Hercules, also in the ForumBoarium, seems to have been distinct from this, sinceLivy (x.23) applies apparently the epithet "rotunda"to it, in order to distinguish it from the other.('• Insignem supplicationem fecit certamen in sacelloPudicitiae Patiiciae, quae in Foro Boario est adaedem rotundam Herculis, inter matronas ortum.")Canina (Indicazione, p. 338) assumes from thispassage that the temple to which it refers musthave been iu existence at the lime of the contestalluded to, namely, is. c. 297; but this, though aprobable inference, is by no means an absolutelynecessary one, since Livy may be merely indicatingthe locnlity as it existed in his own time. Theformer of these temples, or that of Hercules Trium­phalis, seems to be the one mentioned by Macrobius(Sat. iii. 6) under the name of Hercules Victor;and it appears from the same passage that therewas anotlicr with the same appellation, though pro­bably of less importance, at the Porta Trigeuiina.Besides these we hear of a "Hercules Invictus" bythe Circus Maximus (Fast. Amilern; Prid. Id.Aug.), and of another at the same place "in aedePompeii Magni" (Plin. xxxiv. 8. s. 57), whichseems to refer to some Aedcs Herculis built orrestored by Pompey, though wc hear nothing moreof any such temple. Hence there would appearto have been three or four temples of Herculesin the Forum Boarium. The conjecture of Beckerseems not improbable thnt the remains of a roundtemple now existing at the church of S. Maria delSole, commonly supposed to have belonged to a TEMPLE OF IIF.ItCU I.KB.