OCR Output 332 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK IV. him with deserved praises, whilst the consul still persist­ed in his motion; he acquiesced at length, praying tothe gods, that the public weal might suffer no loss or re­proach, at so dangerous a conjuncture, through his infir­mities. He was instantly declared dictator by the consul,and named G. Servilius-Ahala, general of Hie horse. CHAP. XIV. Servilius cuts off Mxlius. J.N EXT day, when he had posted guards in al! properplaces of the city, he went out into the forum, where anappearance so unexpected and unusual soon attracted theattention of the populace. While Ma;Iius' adherents,and himself too, saw plainly that the power of that su­preme magistrate was wholly pointed against themselvessuch as were ignorant of their designs to subvert the con­stitution, were asking one another, what insurrection,what unexpected war, had made it necessary to create adictator, aod to invest Quinctius, at upwards of fourscore,with that supreme office. Servilius, master of the horse, having been sent bythe dictator to Mceiius( tells him, that he must wait up­on the dictator. Mselius, in great disorder, asked whatlie wanted? To make your defence, replied Servilius, inanswer to an indictment laid against you, by Minucius,before the senate, Upon that, Maelius made for acrowd of his adherents, and looking round him, beganto make the best 'of his way. By order of the general ofthe horse, an officer arrested him, but he was rescued bythe people about him; and whilst he fled, he imploredthe protection of the people, crying out that the senatehad concerted a plan for his destruction, because of hisgenerosity to the people, who, he begged might standby him, now that his life was at stake; nor suffer himto be murdered in their presence. Servilius Ahalacameup with him, as lie was pronouncing these words, andlaid him dead at his feet. Then, all sprinkled with theblood of the slain,. encircled with a band of Patricianyouth, he presented himself before the dictator, and tellshim that he had cited Mselius to appear before him ; but