OCR Output CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 153 ducing the belly by famine, all the members separate-ly, and the body in a lump, became lean and languidto an extreme. Hence it appeared, that the. belly wasnot'so idle as had been imagined, and that if it wasnourished by. the other members, it contributed no lessto their support in its turn, in communicating by thedigestion of food, to the several parts of the body, thatblood, by which their life and strength subsisted, andin circulating it in due quantities through all the veins."He compared this intestine sedition of the parts of thehuman body to the discord that then divided the senateand people; and the application, as it was very natural,had a wonderful influence upon their minds. CHAP. XXXIII. Tribunes of the People created. The Volsci routed, andCorioli taken. J.T was then they entered upon terms of reconciliation;and among other concessions, the people were allowed tohave magistrates of their own, whose persons were to besacred, and whose office was to protect them against thepower of the consuls. Nor could any of the Patricianorder be elected into that office. Thus were two tri­bunes of the-people created in the persons of Cains Lici-nius, and L. Albinus, and they chose three colleagues forthemselves. Sicinius, the ring-leader of the mutiny, issaid to have been one of them, but about the other two,historians are not agreed. According to some authors,only two tribunes were created on the sacred mountain,and that the law, whereby their persons were made sa­cred, was enacted there. During the secession, Sp. Cassius and Posthumus Co-rninius entered in office as consuls. In their consulship,'a treaty was concluded with the Latin nations. One ofthem remained at Rome, on purpose to ratify it, whilstthe other went to chastise the Volsci. The Volsci An-tiates were routed and forced into Longula, which wastaken by assault. Polusca, another city belonging to theenemy, shared the same fate. Then the Romans laidclose siege to Corioli. Among the troops that sat down before Corioli, there