OCR Output CHAP. LII. 501 but we may form a less fanciful estimate of their generalknowledge of anatony,x botany/ and chemistry," thethreefold basis of their theory and practice. A super­stitious reverence for the dead confined both the Greeksand the Arabians to the dissection of apes and quadru­peds; the more solid and visible parts were known in thetime of Galen, and the finer scrutiny of the human framewas reserved for the microscope and the injections ofmodern artists. Botany is an active science, and thediscoveries of the torrid zone might enrich the herbal ofDioscorides with two thousand plants. Some traditionaryknowledge might be secreted in the temples- and monas­teries of Egypt; much useful experience had been ac­quired in the practice of arts and manufactures; but thescience of chemistry owes its origin and improvement tothe industry of the Saracens. They first invented andnamed the alembic for the purposes of distillation, ana­lyzed the substances of the three kingdoms of nature,tried the distinction and affinities of alkalis and acids,and converted the poisonous minerals into soft and sa­lutary medicines. But the most eager search of Ara­bian chemistry was the transmutation of metals, and theelixir of immortal health: the reason and the fortunes ofthousands were evaporated in the crucibles of alchymy,and the consummation of the great work was promotedby the worthy aid of mystery, fable, and superstition.Want of But the Moslems deprived themselves of thetMMMBnd Prmcipal benefits of a familiar intercourse withfreedorn. Greece and Rome, the knowledge of antiquity, * See a good view of the progress of anatomy in Wolton. (Reflections on an­cient and modern Learning, p. 2OB—266.) His reputation has been unworthilydepreciated by the wits in the controversy of Boyle and Bentley. J Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. l.p. 275. AlBeithar of Malaga, their greatestbotanist, had travelled into Africa, Persia, and India. * Dr. Watson (Elements of Chemistry, vol. 1. p. 17, &c.) allows the originalmerit of the Arabians. Yet he quotes the modest confession of the famous Geberof the ninth century, (d'Herbelot, p. 317.) that he had drawn most of his science,perhaps of the transmutation of metals, from the ancient sages. Whatever mightbe the origin or extent of their knowledge, the arts of chemistry and alchymy ap­pear to have been known in Egypt at least three hundred years before Mahomet.(Wotton's Reflections, p. 121—133. Fauw, Recherches sur les Egyptiens et lesChinois, torn. 1 p. 376—'129.) •