OCR Output 54» THE DECtINE AND FALL his acts were rescinded, his exiles recalled; and under the gentleadministration of Nerva, while the innocent were restored to theirrank and fortunes, even the most guilty either obtained pardon orescaped punishment Ignorance of II. About ten years afterwards, under the reign of Trajan, thecernmgthe younger Pliny was entrusted by his friend and master with theChnslians. government of Bithynia and Pontus. He soon found himself ata loss to determine by what rule of justice or of law he shoulddirect his conduct in the execution of an office the most repugnantto his humanity. P^iny had never assisted at any judicial proceedingsagainst the Christians, with whose name alone he seems to be ac­quainted; and he was totally uninformed with regard to the natureof their guilt, the method of their conviction, and the degree oftheir punishment. In this perplexity he had recourse to his usualexpedient, of submitting to the wisdom of Trajan an impartial*and in some respects, a favourable account of the new superstition*requesting the emperoF, that he would condescend to resolve hisdoubts, and to instruct his ignorance s6. The life of Pliny hadbeen employed in the acquisition of learning, and in the business ofthe world. Since the age of nineteen he had pleaded with distinc­tion in the tribunals of Rome 57, filled a place in the senate, hadbeen invested with, the honours of the consulship, and had formedvery numerous connexions with every order of men, both in Italyand in. the provinces. From his ignorance therefore we may derivesome useful information. We may assure ourselves, that when heaccepted the government of Bithynia, there were no general laws-or decrees of the senate in force against the Christians; that neitherTrajan nor any of his virtuous predecessors, whose edicts were re­ceived into the civil and criminal jurisprudence, had publicklydeclared, their intentions concerning the new sect; and that what*ever proceedings had been carried on against the Christians, there were