OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 53 plete victory. After taking eighteen ships, and dis­persing the rest, he returned to Lilybaeum with abun­dance of booty, acquired both on land and sea. 30. Philip, during this summer, brought assistanceto the Achieans, in compliance with their earnest jn-treaties; for, on one side, Machanidas, tyrant of theLacedasmonians, harassed them continually by irrup­tions from his territories, which lay contiguous totheirs; and on another the jEtolians, transporting anarmy in ships through the strait which runs betweenNaupactus and Patrae, called by the neighboring inha­bitants Rhios, had spread devastations through thecountry. A report also prevailed that Attalus, kingof Asia, intended to come over into Europe, becausethe jEtolians, in their last general council, had consti­tuted him chief magistrate of their state. While Phi­lip was, for all these reasons, marching down intoGreece, he was met at the city of Lamia by the JEto-lians, under the command of Pyrrhias, who had beencreated pretor for that year, conjointly with Attalus,on account of the latter's absence. Besides their ownforces they had a body of auxiliaries sent by Attalus,and about one thousand men from the Roman fleet ofPublius Sulpicius. Against this commander, and theseforces, Philip fought twice with success; and, in eachbattle, slew at least one thousand. The jEtolians be­ing so greatly dismayed as to keep themselves closeunder the walls of Lamia, Philip led back his army toPbalara. This place, being situated on the Malianbay, was formerly thickly inhabited, on account of itsexcellent harbor, the safe anchorage on either side,with other commodious circumstances, to which boththe sea and the land contributed. Hither came am­bassadors from Ptolemy, king of Egypt, the RhodianS,Athenians, and Chians, with intent to compose the dif­ferences between Philip and the jEtolians. The jEto-lians also invited a mediator from among their neigh­bors, Amynander, king of Athamania. But the con­cern of all was engaged, not so much by their regardfor the ^Etolians, who were remarkable for an arro-