OCR Output NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixxxvii partment of Constantius, as Cæsar, did not includeSpain, which still continued under the immediatejurisdiction of Maximian. [166] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. II. Gruter. Inscript.p. 1171. No. 18. Rufinus has mistaken the officeof Adauctus as well as the place of his martyrdom. [167] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 14. But as Maxentiuswas vanquished by Constantine, it suited the pur­pose of Lactantius to place his death among thoseof the persecutors. [168] The epitaph of Marcel 1 us is to be foundin Gruter, Inscript. p. 1172. No. 3. and it con­tains all that we know of his history. Marcellinusand Marcellus, whose names follow in the list ofpopes, are supposed by many critics to be differentpersons; but the learned Abbe de Longuerue wasconvinced that they were one and the fame.Veridicus rector lapsis quiacrimina HerePrædixit miseris, suit omnibus hostis amarns.Hinc furor, hinc odium; sequitur difcordia, lites,Scditio, cædes; solvuntur fcedera pacis.Crimen ob alterius, Christum qui in pace negavicFinibus expulsus patriæ est feritate Tyranni.Hax breviter Damasus voluit comperta reserreMarcelli populus meritum cognoscere posset.We may observe that Damasus was made bishopof Rome, A. D. 366. [169] Optatus contr. Donatist. 1. i. c. 17, 18. [170] The Acts of the Passion of St. Boniface,which abound in miracles and declamation, arepublished by Ruinart, (p. 283 — 291.) both in Greekand Latin, from the authority of very ancient ma­nuscripts. [171] During the four first centuries, there existsew traces of either bishops or bishoprics in thewestern Myricum. It has been thought probablethat the primate of Milan extended his jurisdictionover Sirmium, the capital of that great province.See the Geographia Sacra of Charles de St. Paul, p.68—76. with the observations of Lucas Hol-sterius. [172] The viiith book of Eusebius, as well as thesupplement concerning the martyrs of Palestine,principally relate to the persecution ofGalerius andMaximin. The general lamentations with whichLactantius opens the vth book of his Divine Initi-iutions, allude to their cruelty. [173] Eusebius (I. viii. c. 17.) has given us aGreek version, and Lactantius (de M. P. c. 34.),the Latin original,of this memorable edict. Neitherof these writers seem to recollect how directly itcontradicts, whatever they have just affirmed of theremorse and repentance of Galerius. [174] Eusebius, 1. ix. c 1. He inserts theepistle of the Prafect. [175] See Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 14. 1. ix. c. 2—8.Lactantius de M P. c. 36. These writers agree inrepresenting the arts of Maximin: but the formerrelates the execution of several martyrs, while thelatter expressly affirms, occidi servos Dei vetuit. [176] A sew days before his death, he publisheda very ample edict of toleration, in which he imputesall the severities which the christians suffered tothejudgcs and governors, who had misunderstood hisintentions. See the Edict in Eusebius, 1. ix. c. 10. [177] See two remarkable passages in Eusebius,1. viii. c. 2. and de Martyr. Palestin, c. 12. Theprudence of the historian has exposed his own cha­racter to censure and suspicion. It was well knownthat he himself had been thrown into prison; andit was suggested that he had purchased his deliver­ance by some dishonourable compliance. The re­proach was urged in his lifetime, and even in hispresence, at the council of Tyre. See Tilsemont,Memoires Ecclesiastiques, torn. viii. part i. p 67. [178] The ancient, and perhaps authentic ac­count of the sufferings of Tarachus, and his compa­nions (Acta Sincera Ruinart, p. 419—448) is filledwith strong expressions of resentment and contemptwhich could not fail of irritating the magistrate.The behaviour of Ædesius to Hierocles, pnesect ofEgypt, was still more extraordinary, Xoyou ti xatipyois to» tuum .... is<fi]S«?vw>. Euseb. de Martyr.Palestin. c. 5. [170] Euseb. de Martyr. Palestin. c. 13. [180] Augustin. Collat. Carthagin. Lei, iii. c*13. ap. Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiques, torn,v. part i. p. 46. The controversy with the Dona-tists has reflected some, though perhaps a partial,light on the history of the African church. [181] Eusebius de Martyr. Palestin. c. 13. Hecloses his narration, by assuring us that these werethe martyrdoms inflicted in Palestine, during thenthflt course of the persecution. The vth chapter