OCR Output MEDIOLANUM. 303 MEDIOLANUM. difficult to see where Mediolanuin should be. Thenext position to Mediolanum on the road to Cologneis Sablunes; which is also uncertain. 4. Mediolanum was the chief town of the AulerciEburovices (Ptol. ii. 8. § 11), or Mediolanium, as itu in Ptolemy's text. The name occurs in the An-tonine ltin. and in the Table. In the Notitia ofthe Gallic provinces it is named Civitas Ebroicorum;and in the middle ages it was called Ebroas, whencethe modem name Evreux, a town in the Frenchdepartment of £ure. Ammianus Marcellinus (xv. 11) mentions Medio-lioum as one of the chief cities of Secunda Lugdu-nensis. There was a Roman town a few milessouth-east of Evreux, at a place called Vieil Evreux.There are the remains of a lurge theatre here, thefoundations of a building which is supposed tohave been a temple, and remains of baths. A greatnumber of amphorae, household utensils, articles ofluxury, and imperial medals have been dug up here,and deposited in the Museum of Evreux. ThisVieil Eereux may be the site of Mediolanum. 5. Mediolanum was the chief town of the Santonesor Santoni, now Samtes, in the French departmentof CkartnU In/crirure. Strabo (iv. p. 190) writesthe name Mediolanium, and also Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 7).Marcellinus (xv. 11) speaks of this place under thename of Santones, from which it appears that in histime the name of the people had, as in many in­stances, been transferred to the town. There is nodoubt about the site of this Mediolanum, which isSamlet on the Chartnte. It was once a considerableRoQian town. There is an arch in honour of Ger-maokus Caesar, which appears to be built on themiddle of the bridge over the Ckarente, which joinsthe town to the faubourg, but the arch rests on thebed of the river, and the bridge has been built to itfrom each bank. The most probable explanation ofthis singular circumstance is that the arch stoodcnginally on one bank of the river, and that therirer changed its course. The bridge, of course,most have been built after this supposed change.The amphitheatre is outside of the town, at thebottom of a valley. It is an ellipse, about 436 feetloa; and about 354 feet wide. Water was broughtto the town from a source several miles to the northby an aqueduct, of which there are still someremains. In one of the valleys which it crossedthere are traces of 25 arches, of which three arestanding. One of them is nearly 50 feet high. [G.L.] MEMOLA'NUM (MeSidAoyoy.Pol.; MfSioAoj/iov,Scrab., PtoL: Eth. Mcdiolanensis: Milano, Milan),the chief city of the Insubres in Cisalpine Gaul, andSi a loop period the capital of Cisalpine Gaul itself.It was situated about midway between the riversTk-inns and Addua, in a broad and fertile plain,abwt 28 miles from the foot of the Alps at Comum,and the same distance from the Padus near Ticinum(Pwia). All ancient writers concur in ascribingits foundation to the Gauls, at the time when thatpeople first established themselves in the plains ofVrthcm Italy. Livy, who has given the most de­tailed account of the settlement of the CisalpineGaols. ttlU us it was founded by the Insubres, who•ailed it after a village of the same name in their«ati»« settlements in Transalpine Gaul (Liv. v. 34;Strab. v. p. 213; Plin. iii. 17. s. 21; Justin, xx.5) There can be little doubt that Strabo is correctin saying that, previous to the Koman conquest, it*m rather a village than a town, as were indeed allUa other Gaulish settlements. It was nevertheless the chief place of the Insubres, and is mentioned assuch several times in the history of the wars of thatpeople with the Romans. Thus, in the campaign ofB.C. 222, after the battle of Clastidium, it wasattacked and taken by the Roman consuls ClaudiusMarcellus and Cn. Scipio. (Pol. ii. 34; Eutrop. iii.6; Oros. iv. 13.) On this occasion it was taken byassault with apparently but little difficulty, and thisconfirms the statement of Strabo that it was an opentown. Again, in b. c. 194, a battle was fought nearit, between the Roman proconsul L. Valerius Flac-cus and the combined forces of the Insubrians andBoians, under a chief named Dorylacus, in which theGauls are said to have lost 10,000 men. (Liv.xxxiv. 46.) No other mention of Mediolanum occurs previous tothe Roman conquest, nor have we any precise accountof the time at which it passed under the Romanyoke, or that at which it was admitted to the Roman"civitas." We can only infer that it must have sub­mitted, together with the rest of the Insubres, about190 B.C.: its citizens doubtless received the Latinfranchise, together with the other Transpadane Gauls,in B. c. 89, and the full Roman franchise in B. c. 49.[Gallia Cisalpisa, Vol. I. p. 945.] Mediolanumthus passed into the condition of a Roman munici-pium, bat it did not as yet enjoy that degree of im­portance which it subsequently attained. Strabocalls it in his time a considerable city (TrdAir a(ui-A070J, v. p. 213), and Tacitus reckons it amongthe "finnissima Transpadanae regionis municipia;"but neither he nor Pliny give any indication of itspossessing any marked superiority over the othermunicipal towns with which they associate its name.(Plin. iii 17. s. 21; PtoL iii. 1. § 33; Tac. Hut.i. 70.) It is evident, however, that under the RomanEmpire it increased rapidly in prosperity, and becamenot only the chief town of the Insuhres, but the mostimportant city in Northern Italy. We learn fromthe younger Pliny that it was a place where litera­ture flourished, and young men from the neigh­bouring towns were sent for their education. (PlinEp. iv. 13.) It was the native place of the emperorDidius Julianas, as well as of Septimius Gets.(Dion Cass, lxxiii. 11; Spartian. Did. Jul 1, Get. 3.)At a later period, A. i>. 268, it was there that theusurper Aureolus took refuge after his defeat by Gal-lienus on the Addua, and was for some time besiegedby the emperor, till a sedition in his own camp endedin the death of Gallienus, and his brother Valerianus.(Eutrop. ix. 11 ; Treb. PolL Gall. 14 ; Vict Caei.33, Epit. 33.) Shortly after Aureolus was com­pelled to surrender the city to Claudius, who hadbeen elected to succeed Gallienus, and was put todeath by order of the new emperor. (Treb. Poll.Claud. 5.) But it was the establishment of the imperial resi­dence at Mediolanum that raised that city to thehighest pitch of prosperity. Its central position,which rendered it a peculiarly suitable head-quartersfrom which to watch the movements of the barba­rians, and the progress of the wars with them,whether in Gaul, Germany, or Pannonia, was un­doubtedly the cause of its selection for this purpose.Augustus himself is said to have sometimes repairedto Mediolanum with the same view (Suet. Aug. 20);and the constantly increasing dangers from thesequarters led subsequent emperors from time to timeto follow his example; but ilaximiau appears to havebeen the first of the Roman emperors who perma­nently fixed his residence there (about a. d. 303),