OCR Output 36 . . THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. amounting to 30,000 men, to Hasdrubal. The new com足mander displayed his energy in the first instance by givingorders that all the Roman prisoners should be brought tothe battlements and, after undergoing cruel tortures, shouldbe thrown over before the eyes of the besieging army; and,when voices were raised in disapproval of the act, a reign ofterror was introduced with reference to the citizens also.Scipio meanwhile, after having confined the besieged to the cityitself, sought totally to cut off their intercourse with theouter world. He took up his head-quarters on the ridge bywhich the Carthaginian peninsula was connected with themainland, and, notwithstanding the various attempts of theCarthaginians to disturb his operations, constructed a greatcamp across the whole breadth of the isthmus, which com足pletely shut off the city from the landward side. Neverthelessships with provisions still ran into the harbour, partly boldmerchantmen allured by the great gain, partly vessels ofBithyas, who availed himself of every favourable wind toconvey supplies to the city from Nepheris at the end of thelake of Tunes; whatever might now be the sufferings ofthe citizens, the garrison was still sufficiently provided for.Scipio therefore constructed a stone mole, 96 feet broad,running" from the tongue of land between the lake and gulfinto the latter, so as thus to close the mouth of the harbour.The city seemed lost, when the success of this undertaking,which was at first ridiculed by the Carthaginians as imprac足ticable, became evident. But one surprise was balancedby another. While the Roman labourers were constructingthe mole, work was going forward night and day for two monthsin the Carthaginian harbour, without even the desertersbeing able to tell what were the designs of the besieged.All of a sudden, just as the Romans had completed thebar across the entrance to the harbour, fifty Carthaginiantriremes and a number of boats and skiffs sailed forthfrom that same harbour into the gulf; while the enemywere stopping up the old mouth of the harbour towards thesouth, the Carthaginians had by means of a canal formed inan easterly direction procured for themselves a new outlet,which owing to the depth of the sea at that spot could notpossibly be closed. Had the Carthaginians, instead ofresting content with a mere demonstration, thrown them足selves at once and resolutely on the half-dismantled andwholly unprepared Roman fleet, it must have been lost;