OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL deities of the empire. But the leisure of the two empresses, of hUwife Prisca and of Valeria his daughter, permitted them to listenwith more attention and respect to the truths of Christianity, whichin every age has acknowledged its important obligations to femaledevotion"Sl. The principal eunuchs, Lucian "l and Dorotheus,Gorgonius and Andrew, who attended the person, possessed the fa­vour, and governed the household, of Diocletian, protected by theirpowerful influence the faith which they had embraced. Their ex­ample was imitated by many of the most considerable officers of thepalace, who, in their respective stations, had the care of the imperialornaments, of the robes, of the furniture, of the jewels, and evenof the private treasury;, and, though it might sometimes be in­cumbent on them to accompany the emperor when he sacrificed inthe temple ,SS, they enjoyed, with their wives, their children, andtheir staves, the free exercise of the Christian religion. Diocletianand his colleagues frequently conferred the most, important officeson those persons who avowed their abhorrence for the worship ofthe Gods, but who had displayed abilities proper for the service ofthe state. The bishops held an honourable rank in their respectiveprovinces, and were treated with distinction and respect, not only bythe people, but by the magistrates themselves. Almost in everycity, the ancient churches were found insufficient to contain the in­creasing multitude of proselytes-; and in their place more statelyand capacious edifices were erected for the public worship of thefaithful. The corruption of manners and principles, so forciblylamented by Eusebius ''*, may be considered, not only as a conse­quence but as a proof of the liberty which the Christians enjoyedand abused under the reign of Diocletian. Prosperity had relaxedthe nerves of discipline. Fraud, envy, and malice, prevailed in everycongregation. The presbyters aspired to the episcopal office, whichevery day became an object more worthy of their ambition. Thebishops, who contended with each other for ecclesiastical pre­eminence,