OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 65 sent from Etruria, denounced this to be a portent par­ticularly horrid, that ought to be exterminated fromthe Roman territories, and without being suffered totouch the earth, drowned in the sea. Accordingly,they shut it up alive in a chest, and threw it into thedeep. The pontiffs likewise issued a mandate, thatthrice nine virgins should go in procession through thecity, singing a hymn. While they were employed inthe temple of Jupiter Stator, learning this hymn,which was composed by the poet Livius, the templeof Imperial Juno, on the Aventine, was struck bylightning. The aruspices, having delivered their judg­ment that this prodigy had respect to the matrons, andthat the goddess ought to be appeased by an offering,the curule ediles, by an edict, summoned together intothe capitol all those matrons who had houses in theeity of Rome, or within ten miles of it; and from thisnumber they chose twenty-five, to whom they paid ina contribution out of their own effects. With this mo­ney a golden basin was made, and carried to the Aven­tine, where the matrons, with every demonstration ofpurity and sanctity, immolated to the goddess. Im­mediately after, the decemvirs, by proclamation, ap­pointed a day for another sacrifice to the same divi­nity, which was conducted in the following order:—from the temple of Apollo, two white heifers were ledinto the city, through the Carmental gate; after themwere carried two cypress images of imperial Juno;then followed the twenty-seven virgins clad in longrobes, singing the hymn in honor of that deity. Thishymn might perhaps to the uninformed judgments ofthose times, appear to have merit, but, if repeated atpresent, it would seem barbarous and uncouth. Thetrain of virgins was followed by the decemvirs,crowned with laurel, and dressed in purple-borderedrobes. From the gate they proceeded through the Ju-garian street into the forum: here the processionhalted, and a cord was given to the virgins, of whichtbey all took hold, and then advanced, beating timewith their feet to the music of their voices. Thus they LIV. VOL. V. E