OCR Output 358 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was in a great dread at this calamity; andbeing in fear for his whole array, he fled withthe rest of his forces to his own kingdom,and to his city Nineveh.* And when he hadabode there a little while, he was treache­rously assaulted, and died by the hands ofhis elder sons fAdrammeleeh and Sarasar:and was slain in his own temple, which wascalled Araske. Now these sons of his weredriven away on account of the murder oftheir father by the citizens* and went intoArmenia: while Assarachoddas took thekingdom of Sennacherib." And this provedto be the conclusion of this Assyrian expedi­tion against the people of Jerusalem. CHAP. II. as hezekiah's indisposition, the prolongation of HIS LIFE FOR FIFTEEN YEARS, AND THE GOING BACKOF THE SHADOW TEN DEGREES, IN CONFIRMATION OFGOD'S PROMISE. RING Hezekiah being thus delivered,after a surprising manner, from thedread he was in, offered thank-offerings toGod, with all his people: because the de­struction of some of their enemies, and thedeparture of the rest from Jerusalem, wasentirely owing to the divine assistance. Yet,though he was very zealous and diligentabout the worship of God, he soon after fellinto a severe Jdistemper; insomuch that thephysicians despaired of him, and expected phrase, that reconciles all the Scripture passages whereinthis terrible defeat is mentioned, and all the sentiments ofcommentators concerning it. Calmet's Dissertation sur laDefaite de l'Armee de Sennacherib. B. * When Sennacherib was got home, after the loss ofso great an army, he demanded of some about him, Whatthe reason might be, that the irresistible God of heaven sofavoured the Jewish nation? To which he was answered,That Abraham, from whom they were descended, by sa­crificing his only son to him, had purchased his protectionto his progeny; whereupon the king replied, If that willwin him, I will spare him two of mine to gain him'to myside: which when his two sons, Sharezer and Adram-melech heard, they resolved to prevent their own deathby sacrificing him. But for all this fiction there is noother foundation, but that scarce any thing else can bethought of, that can afford any excuse for so wicked aparricide. Prideaux's Connection, anno 709. B. t We are here to take notice, that these two sons ofSennacherib, that ran away into Armenia, became theheads of two famous families there, Arzerunii and theGenunii; of which see the particular histories in Mo»esChorenensis, the Armenian historian, page 60, 92, 93. | Josephus, and all our copies, place the sickness of no good issue of his sickness; as neither didhis friends. And besides the distemper it­self, there was a very melancholy circum­stance that disordered the king, which wasthe consideration that he was childless, andwas going to die, and leave his house and hisgovernment without a successor of his ownbody. So he was troubled at the thoughtsof his condition: and lamented himself, andintreated God that he would prolong his lifefor a little while, till he had some children;and not suffer him to depart this life beforehe was become a father. Hereupon Godhad mercy upon him, and accepted of hissupplication; because the trouble he wasunder at his supposed death, was not be­cause he was soon to leave the advantageshe enjoyed in the kingdom, nor did he onthat account pray that he might have alonger life afforded him; but in order tohave sons, that might receive the govern­ment after him. And so God sent Isaiahthe prophet, and commanded him to informHezekiah, that "within three days' time heshould recover from his distemper, andshould survive it fifteen years;ll and that heshould also have children." Now upon theprophet's saying this, as God had com­manded him, Hezekiah could hardly be­lieve it: both on account of the distemperhe was under, which was very sore: and byreason of the surprising nature of what wastold him; so he desired that Isaiah would Hezekiah, after the destruction of Sennacherib's army;because it appears to have been after his first assault, ushe was going into Arabia and Egypt; where he pushedhis conquest as far as they would go: and in order todespatch his story altogether. Yet does no copy butthis of Josephus's say it was after that destruction; butonly that it happened in those days, or about that time ofHezekiah's life. Nor will the fifteen years prolongationof his life after his sickness, allow that sickness to havebeen later than the former part of the fifteenth year ofhis reign. Since chronology does not allow him in allabove twenty-nine years and a few months. Whereasthe first assault of Sennacherib was in the fourteenthyear of Hezekiah, 2 Kings xviii. 13. but the destructionof Sennacherib's army was not till the eighteenth year.There is also a promise inserted in the history of He­zekiah's sickness, which shews it to have been afterSennacherib's first assault, but before his army's destruc­tion; I mean the words of the prophet Isaiah, "I wiHdeliver thee awl this city out of the hand of the kingof Assyria, and I will defend this city to save it, for myown sake, and for my servant David's sake." 3 Kingsxx. 6. Isaiah xxxviii. 6.8 2 Kings xx. 6,6.