OCR Output 4 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. ever his brothers had been ; while Archelaus, a king, wouldsupport his daughter's sons, and Pheroras, a tetrarch, wouldaccept of on? of the daughters as a wife to his son. Whatprovoked him also was this, that all the multitude would socommiserate these fatherless children, and so hate him, [formaking them fatherless], that all would come out, since theyWere no strangers to his vile disposition towards his brethren.He contrived, therefore, to overturn his father's settlements,as thinking it a terrible thing that they should be so related tohim, and be so powerful withal. So Herod yielded to him,and changed his resolution at his intreaty ; and the determina­tion now was, that Antipater himself should marry Aristobu-lus's daughter, and \ntipater's son should marry Pheroras'sdaughter. So the espousals for the marriages were changedafter this manner, even without the king's real approbation. Now Herod* the king had at this time nine wives; one ofthem Antipater's mother, and another the high-priest's daugh­ter, by whom he had a son of his own name. He had alsoone who was his brother's daughter, and another his sister'sdaughter ; which two had no children. One-of his wives alsowas of the Samaritan nation, whose sons were Antipas andArchelaus, and whose daughter was Olympias ; which daugh­ter was afterward married to Joseph, the king's brother's son;but Archelaus and Antipas were brought up with 'a certainprivate man at Rome. Herod had also to wife Cleopatra ofJerusalem, and by her he had his sons Herod and Philip ;which last was also brought up at Rome: Pallas also was oneof his wives, which bare him his son Phasaelus. And besidesthese, he had for his wives Phedra and Elpis, by whom hehad his daughters Roxana and Salome. As for his elderdaughters by the same mother with Alexander and Aristobu-lus, and whom Pheroras neglected to marry, he gave the onein marriage to Antipater, the king's sister's son, and the etherto Phasaelus, his brother's son. And this was the posterity ofHerod. CHAP. * Those who have a mind to know all the family and descendants of An­tipater the Idumean, and of Herod the Great, his son, and have a memoryto preserve them all distinctly, may consult Josephus, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. v.§ 4. vol. 11. and Of the War, B. I. ch. xxviii. § 4. vol. III. and Noldius in Ha-vercamp's edition, p. 336. and Spanheim, ib. p 402.—405. and Reland, Pales-tin. Part I. p. 175. 276. , • ;,