OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 13 They exhibit the forms, rather than the substance, ofhis government; and we should vainly search for thepure and spontaneous sentiments of the barbarian amidstthe declamation and learning of a sophist, the wishes ofa Roman senator, the precedents of office, and the vagueprofessions, which in every court, and on every occasion,compose the language of discreet ministers. The repu­tation of Theodoric may repose with more confidenceon the visible peace and prosperity of a reign of thirty-three years; the unanimous esteem of his own times,and the memory of his wisdom and courage, his justiceand humanity, which was deeply impressed on the mindsof the Goths and Italians. The partition of the lands of Italy, of which Theodo-ric assigned the third part to his soldiers, is honourablyarraigned as the sole injustice of his life. And even thisact may be fairly justified by the example of Odoacer,the rights of conquest, the true interest of the Italians,and the sacred duty of subsisting a whole people, who,on the faith of the promises, had transported themselvesinto a distant land.0 Under the reign of Theodoric, andin the happy climate of Italy, the Goths soon multipliedto a formidable host of two hundred thousand men,dand the whole amount of their families may be computedby the ordinary addition of women and children. Their,invasion of property, a part of which must have been al­ready vacant, was disguised by the generous but impro­per name of hospitality; these unwelcome guests wereirregularly dispersed over the face of Italy, and the lot ofeach barbarian was adequate to his birth and office, thenumber of his followers, and the rustic wealth which hepossessed in slaves and cattle. The distinctions of nobleand plebeian were acknowledged;* but the lands of every c Procopias, Gothic.*lib. 1. c. 1. Variorum 2. Maffei (Verona Illastrat. p. i.p. 228.) exaggerates the injustice of the Goths, whom he hated as an Italian noble.The plebeian Muratori crouches under their oppression. d Procopius, Goth. lib. 3. o. 4. 21. Ennodius describes (p. 1612,1613.) themilitary arts and increasing numbers of the Goths. 'When Theodoric gare his sister to the king of the Vandals, she sailed for Africawith a guard of one thousand noble Goths, each of « hom was attended by five armed