OCR Output 24 THE DECLINE AND FALL we reflect on the fame of Thebes and Argos, of Sparta and Athens,we can scarcely persuade ourselves, that so many immortal repub­lics of ancient Greece, were lost in a single province of the Romanempire, which, from the superior influence of the Achæan league,was usually denominated the province of Achaia.Asia Minor. Such was the state of Europe under the Roman Emperors. Theprovinces of Asia, without excepting the transient conquests ofTrajan, are all comprehended within the limits of the Turkishpower. But instead of following the arbitrary divisions of despotismand ignorance, it will be safer for us, as well as more agreeable,to observe the indelible characters of nature. The name of AsiaMinor is attributed with some propriety to the peninsula, which,confined between the Euxine and the Mediterranean, advances fromthe Euphrates towards Europe. Its principal division, westward ofmount Taurus and the river Halys, was dignified by the Romanswith the exclusive title of Asia. The jurisdiction of that provinceextended over the ancient monarchies of Troy, Lydia, and Phrygia,the maritime countries of the Pamphylians, Lycians, and Carians,and the Grecian colonies of Ionia, which equalled in arts, thoughnot in arms, the glory of their parent. The kingdoms of Bi-thynia and Pontus possessed the northern side of the peninsula fromConstantinople to Trebizond. On the opposite side, the provinceof Cilicia was terminated by the mountains of Syria: the inlandcountry, separated from the Roman Asia by the river Halys, andfrom Armenia by the Euphrates, had once formed the independ­ent kingdom of Cappadocia. In this place we may observe, thatthe northern shores of the Euxine, beyond Trebizond in Asia, andbeyond the Danube in Europe, acknowledged the sovereignty ofthe emperors, and received at their hands, either tributary princes,or Roman garrisons. Budzak, Crim Tartary, Circaffia, and Min-grelia, are the modern appellations of those savage countries *\ 3 Under