OCR Output TYNDAR15 1247 TYRACIA. lyndsrii expelled the Carthaginian parnson, aniljoined the Kalian alliance. (Dial, xxiii. p. 505.)\\c bear bat little of Tyndaris under the Rowan:ovenuneot, but it ap}«ars to have been a flourishingiiki considerable city. Cicero calls it "uobilissima:.tita» " (Vtrr. iii. 43), and we learn from him thatw inhabitants had duplayed their teal and fidelity>'« vdi the Roman* upon many occasions. AmongitLcn they supplied naval forces to the armamenti Sripio Airicanua tho Younger, a service for which* mjuited them by restoring them a statue of Mer-hit which had been carried off by the Carthagi- ■tiu. aod which continued an object of great vene-itim in the city, till it was again carried off by thesjiaaous Verres. (Cic. Verr. iv. 39—42, v. 47.) < intaris was also one of seventeen cities which hadrra selected by the Human senate, apparently as annoorsry distinction, to contribute to certain offeringsi the temple of Venus at Eryx. (/6. T. 47;umpt, ad toe. ; Diod. it, 63.) In other respects liad no peculiar privileges, and was in the condi-oo of au ordinary municipal town, with its ownajtstrates, local senate, &c, bat was certainly in•e uiue of Cicero one of the most considerable places toe island. It, however, suffered severely fromis exactions of Verres (Cic. Verr. II. cc.), and thehabitants, to reTcuge themselves on their oppressor,ibhely demolished his statue as soon as he hadlilted the island, {lb. ii. 66.) Tyndaris again bore a considerable part in the wartween Sextos Pumpeius and Octavian (b. c. 36). »as one of the points occupied and fortified by themier, when preparing for the defence of the Sici-in straits, but was taken by Agripjia after his naval3ury at Mylae, and became one of his chief posts,m which he carried on offensive warfare againstanpvy. (Appian, II. C. v. 105, 109, 116.) Sub-jjfiitly to this we hear nothing more of Tyndaris lu-tory ; but there is no doubt of its having con.toed to subsist throughout the period of the Romani![>ire. Strabo speaks of it as one of the places lie N. coast of Sicily which, in Iris time, still de-ned the name of cilia; and Pliny gives it thele of a Colouia. It is probable that it received a'4iy under Augustus, as we find it bearing in au■criptiao the titles of " Colonia Augusta Tyndarita-mn." (Strah. vi. p..272 ; Plin. iii. 8. a. 14; in. 4. § 2 ; Orell. Inter. 955.) Pliny indeediitiuos a great calamity which the city had sus-o«J, when (be tells us) half of it was swallowed by the sea, probably from an earthquake havingi*d the fall of part of the hill on which it stands,■ we have no clue to the date of this event;lin. ii. 92. a. 94.) The Itineraries attest the ex-■nce of Tyodaris, apparently still as a considerablecm. in the fourth century, (/(in. Ant. pp. 90,; Tab. /Vsjs.) The sits of Tyndaris is now wholly deserted, butname is retained by a church, which crowns the»t elevated point of the hill on which the citymerly stool, and is still called the Madonna ditdaro. It is 650 feet above the sea-level, andus a conspicuous landmark to sailors. Const­able ruins of the ancient city are also visible. Itupted the whole plateau or summit of the hill, andremains of the ancient walls may be traced, at in->»!*, all round the brow of the cliffs, except in onet, facing the sea, where the cliff is now quite preci­se. It ia not improbable that it is here that at uf the cliff fell in, in the manner recorded bytf (ii. 92. a- 94). Two gates of the city are also still distinctly to be traced. The chief monuments,of which the ruins are still extant within the circuitof the walls, are: the theatre, of which the remainsare in imperfect condition, but sufficient to show thatit was not of large size, and apparently of Romanconstruction, or at least, like that of Tauromenium,rebuilt in Roman times upon the Greek foundations;a large edifice with two handsome stone arches, com­monly called a Gymnasium, but the real purpose ofwhich is very difficult to determine; several other edi­fices of Roman times, but of wholly uncertain cha­racter, a mosaic pavement, and some Roman tombs.(Serra di Falco, Antichita dtlla Sieilia, vol. v. partvi.; Smyth's Sicily, p. 101; Hoare's Classical Tour,vol. ii. p. 217, &c) Numerous inscriptions, frag­ments of sculpture, and architectural decorations, aawell as coins, vases, &c. have also been discovered onthe site. [E. H B.] TYNDIS (Tfofit, PtoL vii. 1. § 16), a river ofIndia intra Gangem, which flowed into the Bay ofBengal. There is great doubt which of two rivers,the Manades (Mahandda) or the Maesolus {Gvda-very), represents this stream. According to Manner*it was the southern branch of the former river (v. 1.p. 173). Rut, on the whole, it is more likely thatit is another name for the Ooddeery. [ V.] TYNIDRUMENSE OPP. [Thi'nudbomo*.] TYNNA (liwa), a place in Cataonia or thesouthern part of Cappadocia, in the neighbourhoodof Faustinopolis, is mentioned only by Ptolemy(v. 7. § 7). [L. &] TYPAEUS. [0I.YMFIA.] TYPA'NEAE (Tvwarku. Polyb. Steph. B.; Tuu.troWw, Strab.; Tvu.*dVfia, Ptol.: Elh. Towawdrni),a town of Triphylia in Elis, mentioned by btrsboalong with Hypana. It was taken by Philip in theSocial War. It was situated in the mountains inthe interior of the country, but its exact site is un­certain. Leake supposes it to be represented by theruins near J'lutiana; but Boblaye supposes these Inbe the remains of Aepy or Acpium [Aw*], andthat Typaneae stood on the hill of ilalrysia. (Strab.viii. p. 343; Polyb. iv. 77—79 ; Steph. B. >. r;Ptol. iii. 1C. § 18; Leake, ilurta, vol. ii. p. 82;Boblaye, Recherchti, ije. p. 133; Ross, ReuenimPelopotma, p. 105 ; Curtius, I'clopcmncios, vol. ii.p. 89.) TYKA'CIA or TYRACI'NA (Twpoiru-w. Steph.B : Eth. Tyracienais, Plin.), a city of Sicily, ofwhich very little is known. It is noticed byStephanus as " a small but flourishing city; * andthe Tyracienses are mentioned by Pliny among themunicipal communities of the interior of Sicily.(Steph. B. s. v.: Plin. iii. 8. a. 14.) It is doubtfulwhether the "Tyracinus, princeps civitatis," men.tioned by Cicero (Verr. iii. 56) is s citiien ofTyracia or one of Helorus who bore the propername of Tyracinus. In either case the name wasprobably derived from the city: but though theexistence of this is clearly established, we arewholly without any clue to its {icsition. Several writers would identify the Tkisacia(Tpu/aa-la) of Uiodoms (xii. 29), which that writerdescribes as having been one of the chief towua ofthe Siculi, until it was taken and destroyed by theSyracusans in B. c. 439, with the Tyracinae ofStephanus and Tyracia of Pliny. Both mimesbeing otherwise unknown, I lie readings are in bothcases uncertain: but Diodorus seems to representTrinacia as having been totally destroyed, whichwould sufficiently account for iu not being again