OCR Output 232 NOTES. the second century, cites the speculations of Tacitus touching the origin of th«Jews, as occurring in the fifth Book of his Histories, and thus shows, that ■his day the works were distinct and the Books wera numbered separately, asthey are now. And that they were intended to form separate treatises, is de­monstrated by incontrovertible evidence external and internal. This is suffi­ciently apparent from the introductory chapters, which are manifestly prefa­tory in both, and which mark the limits of the two works, as entirely distinct,though chronologically successive. Tacitus expressly calls his Annals by thatname (Ann. 3, 65; 4, 32; 13, 31), while he refers to the Books in which he hadcomposed the history of Domitiau, as a separate work (Ann. 11, 11). AndPliny refers with equal explicitness to the latter under the title of Historiae(Ep. 7,33). There remains therefore no reasonable doubt, that Tacitus him­self gave to his two great historical compositions the same distinguishing titleswhich they now bear. To the question, what distinction he thus intended tomark, different answers are returned by critics and defended with much learn­ing and zeal. One difference seems to lie on the face of the works, as chronologically re­lated to the author. The Histories cover the age of the historian himself; theAnnals embrace a period anterior to his appearance on the stage of activelife. And this distinction accords with the original and proper signification ofthe word history, which in Greek implies personal inspection or investigation,and which many Greek and Latin authors carefully distinguish, not only fromtradition and hearsay, but also from the authentic records of bygone days.* Another obvious difference is suggested by the literal meaning of the wordannals, which was originally applied to the yearly register of passing eventskept by the Pontiffs (Annales Maximi or Annales Pontificum), and then tothe chronicles of Pictor, Piso and others who were the pioneers of the Romanhistorians, and which in its etymology implies a strictly chronological arrange­ment of the events that occur year by year. This also accords with the actualdifference between the Histories and the Annals of Tacitus. The Historiesnarrate events according to their geographical connection, or the relation ofcause and effect, or they adopt, on rhetorical principles, the arrangementwhich will produce the most picturesque and striking impression. The Annals,on the contrary, follow strictly the chronological order, relating under eachyear the events of that year and no other (cf. Ann. 4, 71: mum quaque inannum referre), or if they depart from it, they offer such an apology, that theexception demonstrates the rule (cf. Ann. 12, 40). Other distinctions have been drawn between annals and history, such asthese—that annals are a simple detail of facts, while history further investi­gates the causes and consequences of the events which are recorded; and that,while annals are written in a straight-forward, inartificial and unadorned style,history is composed in a more studied, ornate and flowing diction, descriptionsof countries and battles are interwoven with the narrative, fictitious speechesare introduced, such as the speaker or actor might have made whether he didmake them or not—in short, history is a work of art, as much so as an oration, * Cf. Plutarch: loroptjaai t"hv ,t6\,v; Palasphatus: yiypa,pa raSra, oi>x oia %vAtySptva, aAA' avrbs IxsXSStv Ral laropriGas; jElian: oi,K aKoijv Mye,v dAAd Iotq-fh»; and Verrius Flaccus, as cited by Aulus Gellius, Noct. Att. 5, 18.