OCR Output 470 ROMAN EMPIRE. the house of Ommiyahs was reduced to the kingdoms ofSyria and Egypt: their distress and fear enforced theircompliance with the pressing demands of the Christians;and the tribute was increased to a slave, a horse, and athousand pieces of gold, for each of the three hundredand sixty-five days of the solar year. But as soon as theempire was again united by the arms and policy ofAbdalmalek, he disclaimed a badge of servitude not lessinjurious to his conscience than to his pride; he discon­tinued the payment of the tribute; and the resentmentof the Greeks was disabled from action by the madtyranny of the second Justinian, the just rebellion of hissubjects, and the frequent change of his antagonists andsuccessors. Till the reign of Abdalmalek, the Saracenshad been content with the free possession of the Persianand Roman treasures, in the coin of Chosroes andCaesar. By the command of that caliph, a nationalmint was established, both of silver and gold, and theinscription of the dinar, though it might be censured bysome timorous casuists, proclaimed the unity of the Godof Mahomet.'1 Under the reign of the caliph Waled,the Greek language and characters were excluded fromthe accounts of the public revenue.1 If this change was .... irattina, xaxa, isiite&vi n Tufjuntia ixo vm Afaffvr f**Xft TOU M». (Chro­nograph. p. 302, 303.) The series of these events may be traced in the AnnaU ofTheophanes, and in the Abridgment of the Patriarch Nicephorus, p. 24 — 24. • These domestic revolutions are related in a clear and natural style, in thesecond volume of < irklr v V History of the Saracens, p. 253 — 370. Besides omprinted authors, he draws his materials from the Arabic MSS. of Oxford, which hewould have more deeply searched, had he been confined to the Bodleian library in­stead of the city jail; a fate how unworthy of the man and of his country! 11 Elmacin, who dates the first coinage A. H. 76, A. D. 695, five or six yeanlater than the Greek historians, has compared the weight of the best or commongold dinar, to the dracham or dirhem of Egypt, (p. 77.) which may be equal totwo pennies (forty-eight grains) of our Troy weight, (Hooper's Enquiry into An­cient Measures, p. 2-1 — 36.) and equivalent to eight shillings of our sterling money.From the same Elmacin and the Arabian physicians, some dinars as high as twodirhems, as low as half a dirhem, may be deduced. The piece of silver was thedirhem, both in value and weight; but an old, though fair coin, struck at VVasset,A. H. 88, and preserved in the Bodleian library, wants four grains of the Cairostandard. (See the Modern Univ. Hist. torn. 1. p. 548. of the French translation.) * Kai I aura ta, n -.-, I,- Sj , 1; o»™ ,:/ti-'': i Tpia y.e^i:0m. Theophan. Chronograph, p. 314. Thwdefect, if it really existed, must have stimulated the ingenuity of the Arabs to in-v.cnt or boriow.