OCR Output 12 ESSAY ON THE In the same way the dative is very often used for the ablative withab, e. g., Hist. III., 70 : Ne tnilitibus inter-ficeretur. Moreover, inia omitted, e. g., Hist. V., 5: Vilisque aurea temph reperta. Hist. I.,13: Hi discordes et rebus minoribus sibi quisque tendentes. Hence I have erased in of the common editions as often as it iswanting in the, MSS. Hist. II., 33: Imperia ducum ineerto reliquerat.Hist. I., 68: Ipsi (in) medio vagi, as Ann. II., 52. Hist. II., 59 :Appulsu litoris trucidatus. Moreover, ad or in is used or omitted promiscuously before the ac足cusative. I pass by those examples in which a preposition entersinto the composition of the verb, as, advolvi genua; although evensuch have given offence, as Hist. III., 43, Stoecliadas insulas ajfertur ;and c. 50, Omniaque quae agenda forent... aderat; for in both theseplaces the old editions inserted ad. Very often the early editors si足lently inserted a preposition, which, upon the authority of the manu足scripts, I have either erased, or advised to erase, or ought myself tohave erased. Hist. III., 7: (in) majus accipiiur, Agr. 10: (in)universum aestimanti. The following are more peculiar to Tacitus :Hist. I., 45: Marium Celsum . . . (ad) supplkium expostulabant.Hist. II., 36 : Macer (ad) exitium poscebatur. I suspect that I shall hardly persuade many that Tacitus makesuse of this license ; but, at all events, it was worth while to set fortha number of examples, and the unanimity of the MSS. And surelyit would be wonderful harmony between books, if the same errorwere so often repeated. Each one, according to his own taste, willconcede to Tacitus more or less of this liberty of accomplishing, bythe power of the cases alone, most purposes for which other writersthink prepositions necessary. I only add, Hist. II., 63 : Ne periculoprineipis famam clementiae affectaret; cf. IV., 69. Hist. II., 70 :Vulgus clamore el gaudio deflectere via. 6. The use of the genitive is likewise somewhat more extensivewith Tacitus than with other Latin authors, since, by its assistancehe could dispense with prepositions. What other writer has usedjus Wbertorum, Hist. II., 92, oralis militum, Ann. XI., 33, for in lib-ertos, in milites ? Tacitus seeks the same brevity in the use of the dative, which heis wont to substitute, with far greater freedom than other writers, forthe preposition ad, with the accusative. He says, in the same sense,Ann. II., 58, Neu proceres . . . ad discordias traherel, and Agr. 12,Per principes factionibus et sludiis trdhuntur; or, Hist. II., 45, Inlacrimas effusus, and I., 69, lacrimis effusus; or, Hist. IV., 5, Uifirmior adversus fortuita, and, A. 3&,firmus advERsis. With charac足teristic love of variety he has brought together both constructions in