OCR Output 7o THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.W Sphacteria, and some other instances of impolitic and di­latory conduct, by this one action they completely pur­ged away. Now it was determined that their depressionhad been merely the result of fortune, but that in in­ward bravery they were still themselves. The day before this battle was fought, it happenedthat the Epidaurians, with the whole of their strength,had made an incursion into Argia, as left defenceless,and had done great execution on the guards, left behindat the general march of the Argives. Three thousand heavy-armed Eleans, as auxiliaries tothe Mantineans, came up after the battle; as did also athousand Athenians to join the former body; uponwhich the whole alliance marched immediately againstEpidaurus, whilst the Lacedæmonians were solemnizingthe Carneian festival. Afcer an equal distribution ofthe work, they began to raise a circumvaliation aroundthat city. The rest, indeed, soon desisted; but the A-thenians, conformably to their orders, completed theirsround the eminence on which stood the temple of Juno.To guard this, work, the whole alliance left behind asufficient number draughted from their several bodies,and then departed to their respective homes. And thesummer was now at an end. In the first commencement of the succeeding winter,and after the celebration of the Carneian festival, theLacedæmonians immediately took the field; and,advancing as far as Tegea, sent from thence to Argosproposals for an accommodation. There was alreadyin that city a party in their intelligence, who were alsobent on overturning the popular government at Argos;and, since the event of the late fatal battle, they wereenabled to use more cogent arguments to persuade themany into the accommodation. Their scheme was, firstto enter into truce with the Lacedæmonians, as prepara­tory to an alliance offensive and defensive, which wasnext in agitation; and, this point carried, then imme­diately to execute thtir plot against the people. Lichas,