OCR Output 2 12 LUCUS ANGITIAE. LUCBINUS LACUS. bonrhood of liis Sabine farm; and this is admittedhy nil the old commentators, who with one accordcall it " Bfons in Sebinis," but without giving am*further clue to its position. The identification ofthis must therefore depend Upon that of Horace'sSiibine villa; but this being clearly established nearfJeenza [Digehtia], we cannot refuse to recogniseLucretHifl in Mtmte Gennarot a lofty mountaininasa which rises nearly due W. of Licenza, standingout prominently towards the plain of the Campagna,so that it is one of the moot conspicuous of theApennines as seen from Koine. On tin* side towardsthe plain it rises very steeply and abruptly, but onthe reverse or Sabine side it has a much moregentle slope, and fully deserves Horace's epithet of"amoenus,"—being furrowed by deep valleys, thehides of which are clothed with woods, while nearerthe summit are extensive pastures, much resorted toby cattle in summer, (dell, Top. of Horn*, pp. 270—273; SibbytZ>wiormTvol.ii.pp.105—107.) Thehighest point is 4285 English feet above the sea.Whether the name ofMons LucretiHs was appliedto the highest part of the mountain, now calledMonte Gennaro, which is so conspicuous fromRome, or was a more local appellation for the peaksnearer the valley of the Digentia, cannot now bedetermined ; but there is little doubt that the twonames belong at least to the same mass or group ofmountains. [K. H. ft. J LUCRl'NTJS LACUS (6 Aonpivos kuAwos, Strab:Logo Lucrum), a salt-water lake or lagoon, adjoin­ing the gulf of ltaiae on the coast of Campania. Itwas situated just at the bight or inmost point of thedeep bay between Puteoli and ltaiae, and was sepa­rated from the outer sea only by a narrow strip orhank of sand, in all probability of natural origin, butthe construction of which was ascribed by a traditionor legend, frequentlyalluded to by the Roman poets, toHercules, and the road along it is said to have beencommonly called in consequence, the Via Herculea orHeraclea, According to Strabo it was 8 stadia inlength, and wide enough to admit of a road for wag­gons. (Diod. iv. 22; Strab. v. p. 245; Lycophr.Alex. 697; Propert. iv. 18. 4; SU. ltal. xii.116—ISO.) On the other side, the Lucrinelake was separated only by a narrow spatefrom the lake Avernus, which was, however, of awholly different character, being a deep basin offresh water, formed in the crater of an extinct vol­cano; while the Lacus Lucrinus, in common withall similar lagoons, was very shallow, and was forthat reason well adapted fur producing oysters andother shell-fish, for the excellence of which it wascelebrated. (Hor. Epod, ii. 49, Sat ii. 4. 32;Juven, iv. 141; Patron. Sat p. 424; Martial, vi.11. 5, xiii. 9i); Van*, up. Aon. p. 216.) Theseoyster-beds were so valuable as to be tanned out ata high price, and Caesar was induced by the con­tractors to repair the dyke of Hercules for their pro­tection. (Serr. ad Geary, ii. 161.) The Lucrine lake is otherwise known chiefly inconnection with the treat works of Agrippa for theconstruct! n of the so-called Jri.u s Pouti'S, al­luded to in two well-known passages of Virgil andHorace. (Virg. Georg, ii. 161 —163; Hot. AnPoet.63.) It i»not easy to understand exactly the natureof these works; but the object of Agrippa was obvi­ously to obtain a perfectly secure and land-lockedbasin, for anchoring his fleet and for exercising hisnewly-raised crews and rowers. For this purpose heseeina to have opened an entrance to the lake I Avernus by a cut or canal from the LftCTUM UU.and must, at the same time, have opened • channrlfrom the latter into the bay, sufficiently deep fa thpassage of large vessels. Hut, together with tl>i»work, be strengthened the natural barrier of the Lu­crine lake against the sea by an artificial dyke ofdam, so as to prevent the waves from brcakincit as they previously did during heavy pales. (Strab,v. p. 245; Dion Cass, atlviii. SO; Suet Aug. 16;Veil. Pat. ii. 79; Serr, et Pbilargyr. ad Yinj. I. c;Plin. xx.wi. 15. a. 24.) It is clear from the ac­counts of thrr.e works that they were perfectly Me-Cessful for a time, ami they appear to have elatedthe greatest admiration; but they were suiofi aban­doned, probably from the natural difficulties provinginsuperable; and, from the time that the ^atwimJthe Koman fleet was established at Mi.-timin, wehear no more of the Julian Port. Even in the tin*of Strabo it seems to have fallen into complete dis­use, for he says distinctly, that the lake Avernoiwas deep and well adapted for a port, but asa||salhe Used us stick on account of the Lucrine likawhich was shallow and broad, lying between it sadthe tea (v. p. 244). And again, a little further ai(p. 245), lie sjfcaks of the latter as useless SSIharbour, and accessible only to small vessels, bajproducing abundance of oysters. At a later llflCassiodorus (l"«r. \x. 6) describes it in a tr-snaawhich implies that a communication was still opawith the lake Avernus as well as with theses. Illtwo lakes are now separated by a corshmHbreadth of low sandy ground, but it is probable tfasthis was formed in great part by the memorialvolcanic eruption of 1538, when the hill now eattaMonte Xuon>, 413 feet in height and abort 800feet in circumference, was thrown up in the coonof two days, and a large part of the Lucrine Ifilled up at the same time. Hence the present aspaof the lake, which is reduced to a mere marshy pafull of mils, affords little assistance in comprehendiug tlie ancient localities. (Daubeny, (hi!pp. 208—210.) It is said that some portka* ithe piers of the port of Agrippa, as well as fflof the dyke or bank ascribed to Hercules, are an*visible under the level of the water. [E. Ii. B.]LUCUS ANGITIAE (Eth. Lucenste: lma place on the W. shore of the lake Fuciuus, in llterritory of the Marsi, originally, as its name ■ports, nothing more than a sanctuary of the godAlAngitia, but which seems to have gradually grasup into a town. This was sometimes culled, aellearn from an inscription, Asc;m.v; hut the fle>of Lucus or Lucus Angitiae must have breu imore prevalent, as we find the inhabitants stylsdlPliny simply Lucenses, and the modern nameLuco or Lugo points to the same conclusion. Uevident, both from Pliny and from the iixripOreferred to, that il was a mmiicij-al town, hartnfjown local magistrates. (Plin. in. 12. s. 17; Oat/riser. 115.) About half a mile X. of the modivillage of Luco, and close to the shores of the leiare the remains of ancient walls conducted ist Ipolygonal style, but which, from their paeancould never have been designed as fortiricjiticaw; •the.M* probably formed part of the sacred enclosior Peribolus of the grove aud temple. The attanow marked, as is so often the case in Italy, bj .ancient church. (Nibby, Viaggio Awtttt/. vwLp. 210; Class. Mus. vol. ii. p. 175, Dote.) Vi|alludes in a well-known passage to the **tsfaAngitiae" (Atn. vii. 75'J), where tlie name of