OCR Output VOLSCL VOLSLNII. 1323 eontinoed constantly in the hinds of the Rinnans,must have been a severe blow to the power of theVolscians, and mar be considered as marking an erain their decline. Throughout this period it is re­markable that Antium, one of the most powerfulcities of the Volscians, continued to be on peacefulterms with Rome; the war was carried on almostexclusively upon the NE. frontier of the Volscians,where they were supported by the Aequians, andEcetrs was the city which appears to have taken thelead in it. The capture of Rome by the Gauls marks thecommencement of the fourth period of the VolscianWars. It is probable that their Aequian allies suf­fered severely from the same invasion of the barba­rians that had so nearly proved the destruction ofHome [Arqui], and the Volscians who adjoinedtheir frontier, may have shared in the same disaster.But on the other hand. Antium, which was evidentlyat this period a powerful city, suddenly broke oft' itsfriendly relations with Rome; and during a period ofneatly 13 years (b. c. 386—374), we find the Vol­scians engaged in almost perpetual hostilities withRome, in which the Antiates uniformly took thelead. The seat of war was now transferred from theAequian frontier to the southern foot of the Albanhills: and the towns of Velitrae and Satricum weretaken and retaken by the Volscians and Romans.Soon after the conclusion of peace with the Antiateswe hear for the first time of rrivernum, as engagingin hostilities with Rome, B. c. 358, and it ia remark­able that it comes forward single-handed. Indeed, ifthere had ever been any political league or bond ofunion among the Volscian cities, it would seem tohave been by this time completely broken up. TheAntiates again appear repeatedly in arms; and whenat length the general defection of the Latins and Cam-panian* broke oat in u. c 340, they were among thefirst to join the enemies of Rome, and laid waste thewhole sea-coast of Latium, almost to the wallsof Ostia.But they shared in the defeat of the Latin armies,h 'th at I'edum and on the Astura: Antium itselfwas taken, and received a colony of Romans withinits walU, but at the same time the citizens them­selves were admitted to the Roman franchise. (Liv.viii. 14.) The people of Fundi and Kormiae, both ofthem prolnbly Volscian cities, received the Romanfranchise at the same time, and Tarracina was soonafter occupied with a Roman colony. The I'riverr.ates■ lone ventured once more to provoke the hostility oftlie Romans in B. c. 327, but were tcverely punished,ar.d their city was taken by the consul C. Plaulius.Nevertheless, the inhabitants were admitted to theK-rfnan Civitas; at fir*t, indeed, without the right ofiiiffntge, but they soon afterwards obtained the full'ranchise, and were enrolled in the Utentine tribe.I he gn-ster part of the Volscians, however, was in-laded in the l'omptine tribe. Ut tbe late of Hie cities that were situated on the■orders of the valley of the Trerus, or in that of the.iris, we have scarcely any information ; but there iseason to suppose that whilo the Antiates and their••isrfibours were engaged in hostilities with Rome,he Volscians of the interior were on their side fullyreupied with opposing the advam eof the Sammies,fur were their etforts in all cases successful. Wenow that both Arpiuutn and Fregellac had beenrested from the Volscians by the Samnites, beforej* Ii n »■ - made their appearance in the coutestLiv. Ttii. 33, ix. 44), and it is probable that theher cities of the Volscians readily took shelter under the protection of Rome, for security againsttheir common enemy. It seems certain, at all events,that before the close of the Second Samnite War(B.C. 304), the whole of the Volscian people hadsubmitted to the authority of Rome, and been ad­mitted to the privileges of Roman citizens. From this tune their name disappears from his­tory. Their territory was comprised under thegeneral appellation of Latium, and tbe Volscianpeople were merged in the great mass of the Romancitizens. (Strab. v. pp. 228,231 ; Flin. iii, 5. s. 9 jCic.pro Balb. 13.) But a rude and simple mountain-people would be naturally tenacious of their customsand traditions ; and it is clear, from the manner inwhich Juvenal incidentally alludes to it, that evenunder the Roman rmipirc, the name of the Volscianswas by no means extinct or forgotten in the portionof Central Italy which was still occupied by theirdescendants. (Juv. SaU viii, 245.) The physical geography of the land of the Volscianswill be found described in the article Latium. ofthe peculiar characters of the people themselves, orof any national customs or institutions that dis­tinguished them from their Latin neighbours, weknow absolutely nothing. Their history is a recordonly of the long struggle which they maintainedagainst the Roman power, and of the steps which led totheir ultimate subjugation. This is the only memorythat has been transmitted to us, of a people that wasfor so long a period the most formidable rival of theRoman Republic. [E. 11. B.] VOLS1N1EXSIS LACUS (h wtol OiioAainouiAi^uf}, Strab. v. p. 226: Logo tii JJoUena), a con­siderable lake of Etruria, scarcely inferior in sizeto that of Trasimene. It took its name from tbetown of Volsimi, which stood ou its NE. shore;but it was also sometimes called Lac us Tarquini-eusis, as its western side adjoined the territoryofTarquimi. (Plin. ii. 96.) Notwithstanding itsgreat size, it is probable, from the nature of the sur­rounding hills and rocks, that it is the crater of anextinct volcano (Dennis, £trwia, vol. i. p. 514).In this lake the river Marta has its source. Itabounded in nsh, and its sedgy shores harbouredlarge quantities of water-fowl, with which articles itsupplied the Roman markets. (Strab. /. c; Colum.viii. 16 ) It contained two islands, of which, as wellas of the lake itself, wonderful stories were relatedby the ancients. They were remarked to be everchanging their forms (Flin. Lc). and on one occasionduring the Second Funic War its waters are said tohave flowed with blood. (Liv. xxvii. 23.) Theshores of the lake were noted for their quarries.(Flin. xxxvi. 22. a. 49.) In a castle on one of tbeislands queen Amalasontha waa murdered by order ofher husliand Theodatus. (Frocop. B. Ooih. i. c. 4,p. 23, ed. Bonn.) [T. H. L»] VOLSIMI or VULSIMI (Or/oAnuio.. Strab. v.p. 226; OiioAcru'ior, Ftol. iii. 1. § 50: Uoltena), anancient city of Etruria, situated on the shore of alake of the same name (Lacus Volsiuiensis), and onthe Via Clodia, between Clusiuin and Forum Casaii.(/fin. Ant. p. 286: /'•■•') But in treating of Volsinii we must distinguish between the Etruscanand the Roman city. We know that tlie ancienttown lay on a steep height (Zonaras.^nn. viii. 7 ; cf.Aristot. Mir. Auk. 96); while Bolttna, tbe represen­tative of the Roman Volsini, ia situated iu the plain.There is considerable difference of opinion as towhere this height should be sought. Abeken (Stit-Ulitalien, p. 34, seq.) looks fur it at Monte t'iatamt,