OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 211 tion from the government. They proved in the senate by in thestriking figures, that the former must make the public trea- voting,sury bankrupt; Saturninus did not trouble himself aboutthat. They brought tribunician intercession to bear againstboth laws ;- Saturninus ordered the voting to go on. Theyinformed the magistrates presiding at the voting that a pealof thunder had been heard, a portent by which accordingto ancient belief the gods enjoined the dismissal of the publicassembly; Saturninus remarked to the messengers, thatthe senate would do well to keep quiet, otherwise the thundermight very easily be followed by hail. Lastly the urbanquaestor, Quintus Caepio, the son, it may be presumed, of thegeneral condemned three years before,* and like his father avehement antagonist of the popular party, with a band of de­voted partisans dispersed the comitia by violence. Butthe hardy soldiers of Marius, who had flocked in crowds toRome to vote on this occasion, quickly rallied and dispersedthe city bands, and on the voting ground thus reconqueredthe vote on the Appuleian laws was Successfully broughtto an end. The scandal was grievous; but when it came tothe question whether the senate would comply with theclause of the law, that within five days after its passingevery senator should on pain of forfeiting his senatorial seattake an oath faithfully to observe it, all the senators tookthe oath with the single exception of Quintus Metellus, whopreferred to go into exile. Marius and Saturninus werenot displeased to see the best general and the ablest manamong their opponents removed from the state by voluntarybanishment. Their object seemed to be attained; but even now to those The fall ofwbo saw more clearly the enterprise could not appear other the revolu-than a failure. The cause of the failure lay mainly in the tionaryawkward alliance between a politically incapable general and a '" y'street-demagogue, able, but recklessly violent and filled withpassion rather than with the aims of a statesman. They hadagreed excellently, so long as the question related to theirplans alone. But when the plans came to be executed, it * All indications point to this conclusion. The elder Quintus Caepio wasconsul in 648, the younger quaestor in 651 or 654, the former consequently 106. 103.was born about or before 605, the latter about 624 or 627. The fact that the 100. 148.former died without leaving sons (Strabo, iv. 188) is not inconsistent with this 130. 127.view, for the younger Caepio fell in 664, and the elder, who ended his life in 90.exile at Smyrna, may very well have survived him.