OCR Output 228 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. on account of ray stratagem, which was opposite to their under­takings. 56. Now there was one whose name was Ananias, a wickedman he was, and very mischievous ; he proposed that a generalreligious fast * should be appointed the next day fpr all the peo­ple, and gave order that at the same hour they should cometo the same place, without any weapons, to make it manifestbefore God, thatwhile they obtained his assistance, they thoughtall these weapons useless. This he said, not out of piety, butthat they might catch me and my friends unarmed. Now, I was] .reupon forced to comply, lest I should appear to despise a pro­posal that tended to piety. As soon, therefore, as we were gonehome, Jonathan and his colleagues wrote to John, to come tothem in the morning, and desiring him to come with as manysoldiers as he possibly could, for that they should then be ableeasily to get me into their hands, and to do all that they desired todo. When John had received this letter, he resolved to com­ply with it: As for myself, on the next day, I ordered two ofthe guards of my body, whom I esteemed the most courageous,and most faithful, to hide daggers under their garments, and togo along with me, that we might defend ourselves, if any attackshould be made upon us by our enemies. I also myself took mybreast-plate, and girt on my sword, so that it might be, as far aswas possible, concealed, and came into the Proseucha. 57. Now Jesus, who was the ruler, commanded that theyshould exclude all that came with me, for he kept the door him­self, and suffered none but his friends to go in. And while wewere engaged in the duties of the day, and had betaken ourselvesto our prayers, Jesus got up, and inquired of me what wasbecome of the vessels that were taken out of the king's palace,when it was burnt down, [and] of that uncoined silver : and inwhose possession they now were ? This he said, in order to drivenway time till John should come. I said that Capellus, and theten principal men of Tiberias had them all; and I told him thatthey might ask them whether I told a lie or not. And whenthey said they had them, he asked me, what is become of thosetwenty pieces of gold which thou didst receive upon the sale of acertain weight of uncoined money ? I replied, that I had giventhem to those ambassadors of theirs, as a maintenance for them,when they were sent by them to Jerusalem. So Jonathan andhis colleagues said, that I had not done well to pay the ambassa­dors out of the public money. And, when the multitude were very * One mavo'nserve here, that this lay-Pharisee Ananias, as we have seen hexvas, sect. 3>p. took upon him to appoint a fast at Tiberias, and was obeyed;tho''igh iniked ii was not cut of religion, but knavish polic/.