OCR Output 244 LIVY. curbed and reduced his passions to subjection hasreally acquired to himself much greater glory, and afar more honorable victory, than that which we nowenjoy in our conquest of Syphax. The instances ofcourage and conduct, which you displayed while I wasnot present, I have mentioned with pleasure, and I re­tain a proper sense of them. As to other matters, Irather wish that you would review them in your ownmind, than that you should blush at my recital of them.Syphax has been subdued and taken under the auspicesof the Roman people: therefore he, his wife, his king­dom, his territories, his towns, and the inhabitants ofthem; in short, whatever was the property of Syphaxis now the prize of that people. Both the king and hiswife, even though she were not a citizen of Carthage,and we had not seen her father heading the enemy'sarmy, ought to have been sent to Rome, where theRoman state should have had the power of judging auddetermining concerning her-—a woman who is said tohave seduced a king in alliance with us, and tohave precipitated him into the war. Restrain yourfeelings. Beware, lest by one vice you disparage anumber of good qualities, and destroy the credit of somany meritorious deeds by a fault, too great to bepalliated, even by the occasion of it.' 15. On hearing this discourse, not only Masinissa'scountenance was suffused with blushes, but he evenburst into tears; and after declaring that 'in futurehe would be directed intirely by Scipio,' and intreat-ing him, ' as far as the affair would permit, to considerthe obligation into which he had rashly entered, not togive the queen into the power of any one,' he retired inconfusion from the general's tent to his own. There,dismissing his attendants, he spent some time in sighsand moans, which could be heard distinctly by thosewho stood without. At last, having uttered a deepgroan, he called one of his servants, in whom he con­fided, and who had the charge of the poison, which,according to the custom of kings, is kept against theuncertainties of fortune, and ordered him to mix some