OCR Output SALONA. 885 SALPIXUM. «i (Caes. B. C. iii. 9.) The profligate Ga- |j. J'jrr being cooped up for months in theiw. dial here. (Auct. B. Alex. 43 ; Dion Cast.. It) In a. c. 39 Asinius Pollio defeated the i'ar-i, who bid espoused the cause of Brutus andfcsi, tod took Salonae, in commemoration of^bbno Asinius Gallus bore the "agnomen"am (CotnpVirg. BucoL viii. 7; Hor. Carm. ii. 1.-16) From the time it received a colony itMai ipou as the great bulwark of the Komana m that aide the Adriatic, and was distin-atd tor iU loyalty, as was shown in the siege ituumI viinM Bato the native leader, a. u. 6.'■'-> put Human roads in Oalmatia met at this'vA alien Uie country was divided in!o threeurates," or assize towns, as many as 382waw* were convened to it. (Plin. iii. 26.)r lb* earlier emperors the town was embel-i «Ki many public buildings, the number ofc •»» greatly increased by Diocletian, who,"Sag hi Porpbyrogenitus (de A dm. Imp. 29),rebuilt the city. No great change tookrW nearly two centuries after the death of•■paw j but if we are to believe Porphy-aw, (I e.) the "long Salonae" atUined toIJ« uze of Constantinople. In A. n. 481 Sa-*u taken by Odoacer, king of the Heruli, but*ojr*red from the Goths by tlie Gepid princeJ'. Ihs general of Justinian. Totila occupied it■aaa. Little is known of these sieges, exceptit >u partially destroyed. (Procop. B. G i.'.&&) ft soon recovered from these diasters;> vat from Salonae that Belisarius in 644,>irv* in 552. set out to rescue Italy from sad the Goths. (Comp. Gibbon, c xliii.)'%n invaded Dalmatia in 639, and, advancingSalome, pillaged and burnt the town, whichUat time has been deserted and in ruins.- Porph. L c) The town possessed a dock-•kkh. from Strabo's (vii. p. 315) account,to hare been the only one deserving that■& the Dalmatian coast. The present state(We offers many illustrations of past events;>/*Tng works touch very fully upon the! «f tLe fortifications and other ruins: Wil-Inlmeitia, vol. i. pp. 151—164; Neigebaur,•i-SUtru, pp. 151—164; Lanza, Antiche•■^vtane inediU, Zm, 1850; F. Carrara,•Jm « Semri di Salona, Trieste, 1850.t»ne of Salonae mainly rests upon its neigh- having been chosen by Diocletian as the: ita retirement. That emperor, after bis*«, spent the last nine years of his life inura of the palace which has given its namea Spalalo, often erroneously called Spa-I >nc Split, is a corrnpted fonn of Salonaes or S. Palatium. The building of the• rjnn the precincts of which the greaterthe modern town is constructed, occupiedlean. The atone, which was very littleto marble itself, was brought from the■rf Tragnriutn, After the death of Dio-''i*. little is known of the palace or itsa. Part of it was kept by the magistratesa. as a state palace; and part was occupied <lartaam," or cloth manufactory, inxaaan only were employed, — whence the1*. va* tenanted by the phantom emperors'art, Crycerina and Julius Nepos, the latter •u msrdered here. When Salonae was*7 the Atari, tbe houseless citizens tied to the massive structure of the palace for shelter: thesettlement swelled by the arrival of their country­men became a Koman city under the name ofAsPALATUUM, and paid an annual tribute of 21)0pieces of gold to the Eastern emperors. (Const.Porph. /. c.) The palace is nearly a square, terminated atthe four corners by a quadrangular tower. Ac­cording to the latest and most accurate admeasure­ments, the superficial content, including the towers,occupies a space of a little more than eight acres.(Wilkinson, lialmatia, vol. i. pp. 114—143 ; Neige­baur. Die Sud-Slaven, pp. 134—151.) The en­tire building was composed of two principal sec­tions, of which the one to the S. contained twotemples — one dedicated to Jupiter the other toAesculapius — and the private rooms of the em­peror. Two streets intersected each other at riplitangles, nearly in the centre of it; the principal oneled from the Porta Aurea, the main entrance onthe N. front, to a spacious court before the vestibule;the other ran in a direct line from the W. u> the K.gate, and crossed the main street just below thecourt. What remains is not enough to explain thedistribution of the various parts of the interior.By a comparison of what existed in his time withthe precepts of Vitruvius, Adams (Antiquities ofIHocletians Palace, 1764) has composed his inge­nious restoration of the palace. (Comp. Gibbon,c. xiii.) All the gates, except the Porta Argentea,were defended by two octagonal towers; the princi]*!or "golden gate" still remains nearly perfect. Thetemple of Jupiter is now the "Duomo," and that ofAesculapius is a baptistery dedicated to St. John.Diocletian's palace marks an aera; — columnar wasso combined with arched architecture, that thearches were at first made to rest upon the enta­blature, and afterwards were even forced imme­diately to spring from the altacns, in violation ofthe law of statics, which requires undiminished andangular pillars under the arch; at length the enta­blature itself took the fonn of an arch. (Miiller,Ancient Art, § 193.) But although this archi­tecture offends against the rules of good taste, yetthese remains may serve to show how directly theSaracens and Christian architects borrowed fromKoman models many of the characteristics whichhave been looked upon as the creation of their ownimagination. (Comp Hope, Architecture, vol. i.c viii.; Freeman, JJitt. of Architecture, p. 152.)A plan of the palace of Diocletian, taken from Adnms,will be found in Kergusson's J/iauIhook of Architec­ture, vol. i. p. 356, accompanied by an account oftbe general arrangements of the building. [K.B J.3SALIT.SA, a Koman municiiiium in IlispaniaBaetica, SK. of Hispalis, at the mined Faciakauir,between Utrera and Coronil. (Florei, Ksp.Sagr.ix. p. 17; Mionnet, Suppl. i. p. 44.) [T. H. I).] SAL1TNUM (£(A. Salpinas), an ancient city ofEtrnria, mentioned only by Livy (v. 31, 32), whospeaks of the Salpinates as assisting the Volsinianain their war against Kome in b. c. 389. It is clearfrom the manner in which they are here spoken ofthat they were an independent people, with a con­siderable territory and a fortified city; and the man­ner in which they are associated with the powerfulVolsiniana would lead to the inference that they alsomust have been a people of considerable power.Yet no subsequent meatien of their name is found,and all trace of their existence disappears. Niebuhrconjectures that Salpinum occupied the site of the> 3 L 3