OCR Output STYLE OF TACITUS. stated. I have noticed a similar example in Hist. II., 71. But I knowof no more remarkable instance than Agr. 24, where the words naveprima transgressus wore obscure, until it was discovered that Agri-cola had gone over (the previous autumn) from Britain to the con­tinent, or even to Rome, a fact which Tacitus does not mention. 14. Since now such a studied brevity seems to involve a depart­ure from usage, and to favor a copiousness of matter rather than tosubserve the beauties of style, Tacitus makes a compensation bylaboring intently to adorn his language, in order that he may not losethe praise of eloquence. Of the ancienf authors of history, Caesar wrote in a style, pure,graceful and devoid of all ornament, not departing from the ordinarymodes of expression on 'Jie one part, and yet on the other avoidingthe vulgarity of colloquial language by a somewhat artificial compo­sition. Sallust was fond of antiquated expressions and wrote in astyle of peculiar gravity, still carefully preserving simplicity. Livyapplied ornament to his diction, and sought the praise of eloquence.But Tacitus believed that a kind of magnificence and sublimity ofstyle was peculiarly adapted to the dignity of history. And in this,indeed, he resembled Thucydides, who himself also had cultivated astyle widely removed from the ordinary eloquence of other writers;not for want of genius, or through ignorance of letters, as somesuppose, but intentionally and understandingly, that he might notseem to have furnished the lovers of pleasure with a mere iywwr/,aIs tJ ,raporxpw,i-* In other respects there is almost a greater differ­ence between these writers, than resemblance.! For the Grecianwriter, in discussions and orations, is especially and peculiarly con­densed and bold, though in his boldness approaching nearer tothe austerity of philosophers than to the ornament of poets; while innarration his style is very clear and flowing. Tacitus, on the con­trary, shaped his narrative to the cast of his own mind, therein rival­ling the vigor and boldness of poets; but as often as he interwoveorations, he contented himself with obeying the ordinary rules ofeloquence. In fine, there is no essential difference between hisstyle and that of poetry; and strangely inconsistent are they, whorefuse to Tacitus the use of any word or construction, while theyfreely grant the same to poets. And rarely indeed does he, whilelaboring to be brief, become - obscure, as is usually the case in a * I. e.," a mere prize essay for temporary applause." The expression is quotedfrom the Introduction of Thucydides' History, in which, as he says, he gives tothe public K-rijpa is ill paWov, ^ iy,a,Ktrfta zs rd ,rapa^p,ji,a. Ed. t Fried. Roth has written an excellent essay upon these writers, Vergleib'hende Betrachtungen liber Thucydides und Tacitus, Munchen, 1812.