OCR Output 304 VESPASIAN'S RECEPTION AT ROME. [B. VII. was then put a stop to, which was likely, by the fury where­with it was carried along, to have gone over the whole city,)Antiochus accused the Jews as the occasion of all the mis­chief that was done. Now this induced the people of Anti-och, who were now under the immediate persuasion, by reasonof the disorder they were in, that this calumny was true, andwould have been under the same persuasion, even thoughthey had not borne an ill-will at the Jews before, to believethis man's accusation, especially when they considered whathad been done before, and this to such a degree, that they allfell violently upon those that were accused, and this likemadmen, in a very furious rage also, even as if they had seenthe Jews in a manner setting fire themselves to the city: norwas it without difficulty that one Cneas Collegas, the legate,could prevail with them to permit the affairs to be laid beforeCoesar; for as to Cecennius Petus, the president of Syria,Vespasian had already sent him away; and so it happened,that he was not yet come back thither. But when Collegashad made a careful inquiry into the matter, he found out thetruth, and that not one of those Jews that were accused byAntiochus had any hand in it, but that all was done by somevile persons greatly in debt, who supposed, that if they couldonce set fire to the market-place and burn the public records,they should have no farther demands made upon them. Sothe Jews were under great disorder and terror, in the uncer­tain expectations of what would be the upshot of these accu­sations against them. CHAPTER IV. HOW VESPASIAN WAS RECEIVED AT ROME; A3 ALSO HOW THEGEHMAN8 REVOLTED FROM THE ROMANS, BUT WERE SUB­DUED. THAT THE SARMATIANS OVERRAN MYSIA, BUT WERECOMPELLED TO RETURN TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY AGAIN. § 1. And now Titus Caesar, upon the news that was broughthim concerning his father, that his coming was much desiredby all the Italian cities, and that Rome especially received