OCR Output CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. flfri "It was their business to take care of themselves and• ' children." These complaints of Virginias were followed by theacclamations of the whole multitude; who assured himthey would neither be wanting to avenge his grief, norto assort their own liberty. The citizens, too, minglingin the crowd with the soldiers, confirmed what they hadheard from Virginius; representing at the same time,that to be spectators of a scene so distressing was muchmore affecting than the minutest relation. At the sametime they told them, that the interest of the decemvirswas entirely suivk at Rome; and that those who badcome after them, brought accounts that Appius, havingnarrowly escaped with his life, had absconded. Suchan impression had these accounts on the soldiers, that toarms was the universal "cry; the standards were pulledtip, and thre troops took the route of Rome. The decem­virs, terrified with what they saw, and the accounts theyhad heard of what passed in the city, run to all sides ofthe camp to appease the tumults. If they spoke mildly,they were answered with silence; if they spoke with au­thority, the soldiers told them, '" that they were men*"and had their arms in their hands." They marchedto Rome in a body, and posted themselves upon mountAventine, m their way exhorting all they met, to re­cover their liberty, and to create tribunes; but they usedneither violence nor menaces. Sp. Oppius assembled the senate. All violent mea­sures were exploded. The decemvirs themselves werethe cause of the sedition. Sp. Tarpeius^ Caius .lulius,P. Sulpicius, three donstilar gentlemen, were deputed tothe soldiers, to demand, in name of the senate, by whoseorders they had abandoned the camp, or what they pro­posed to themselves, by seizing the Aventine in arms?What they intended by turning their backs upon the ene­my, and their arms against their country? Their answerwas ready, but they wanted one qualified to deliver it.Having yet appointed no chief, nobody ventured to takeit upon himself, nor to expose himself to the danger withwhich it might be attended. Only there was a generalcry, to send Valerius and Horatius to them; and to themthey would give their answer.