OCR Output x THE TRANSLATOR trating into the motives of every action, and cause ofevery event? Can there be a greater incitement to virtue,than from the example exhibited to us in the history ofthe antient Romans, for modesty, frugality, generosity,disinterestedness, patriotism, and all those shining vir­tues, which have rendered them the admiration of suc­ceeding ages? It was in this view that Livy consideredhis subject, in which he saw so many opportunities ofdisplaying his genius, and which he knew so well howto improve.* In short, in the manner he has handled his subject,nothing seems to be above his merit. The beauty andelevation of his style, is equal to the glory and greatnessof the people whose history he writes. He is everywhereluminous, intelligible, and agreeable: but when he en­ters into important affairs, he rises even above himself,to treat them with peculiar attention, and a kind of self-delight and complacency. The actions he describes, herenders present; he sets them before the eyes; he doesnot relate them, he shows them. He paints the geniusand character of his dramatis persona, from nature; andputs words iuto their mouths, which are always conform­able to their sentiments and situations. In one word, hehas the wonderful art of keeping his readers in so pleas­ing a suspense, by the variety of his events, and of en­gaging their curiosity so strongly, that it is impossible toquit his relation of any incident/ till it is entirely at anend.f It is reported of the celebrated Scotch historian, GeorgeBuchanan, that he read Titus Livius's history ten timesover, to fix in his mind the stile and manner of that greatauthor, before he attempted the work, which has justlyplaced him at the head of all the writers who havetransmitted their sentiments to posterity in the Latinlanguage, since the Augustan age. Nay, some havenot scrupled to affirm, in drawing a comparison betweenLivy, and the celebrated Roman orator, Cicero; that ifthe latter had turned his whole attention from the bar, to * Les Oenvres du P. Rapin.f Rolling Roman history.