OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 109 same device. But as the generals were not presentwhen the attacks were made, there were no bounds tothe carnage which ensued; and the nation of the Au-sonians, when there was scarcely any clear proof ofthe charge of its having revolted, was utterly de­stroyed, as if it had supported a contest through adeadly war. 26. During this year Luceria fell into the hands ofthe Samnites, the Roman garrison being betrayed tothem. The actors in this treachery did not long gounpunished : the Roman army was not far off, bywhom the city, which lay in a plain, was taken at thefirst onset. The Lucerians and Samnites were to aman put to the sword ; and to such a length was re­sentment carried, that at Rome, on the senate beingconsulted about sending a colony to Luceria, manyvoted for the demolition of it. Their hatred was ofthe bitterest kind, against a people whom they hadbeen obliged twice to subdue by arms ; the great dis­tance also made them averse from sending their citi­zens as colonists among nations so ill affected towardsthem. However, the resolution was carried that suchshould be sent; and accordingly two thousand fivehundred were transported thither. This year, disaffec--tion to the Romans becoming general, conspiracieswere formed among the leading men at Capua, as wellas at other places ; which being reported to the senate,they deemed it an affair by no means to be neglected.They decreed that inquiries should be made, and re­solved that a dictator should be appointed to enforcethese inquiries. Caius Maenius was accordingly no­minated, and he appointed Marcus Foslius master ofthe horse. People's dread of that office was verygreat, insomuch that the Calavii, Ovius, and Novius,who were the heads of the conspiracy, either throughfear of the dictator's power, or the consciousness ofguilt, previous to the charge against them being laidin form before him, chose, as appeared beyond doubt,to avoid trial by a voluntary death. As the subject ofthe inquiry in Campania was thus removed, the pro-