OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 205 lity; his father had been the saviour of Christendom;and the claims of personal merit were repeated andennobled in a descent of four generations. The nameand image of royalty were still preserved in the lastdescendant of Clovis, the feeble Childeric; but his ob足solete right could only be used as an instrument ofsedition: the nation was desirous of restoring the sim足plicity of the constitution; and Pepin, a subject and aprince, was ambitious to ascertain his own rank and thefortune of his family. The mayor and the nobles werebound, by an oath of fidelity, to the royal phantom:the blood of Clovis was pure and sacred in their eyes;and their common ambassadors addressed the Romanpontiff, to dispel their scruples, or to absolve their pro足mise. The interest of pope Zachary, the successor ofthe two Gregories, prompted him to decide, and todecide in their favour: he pronounced that the nationmight lawfully unite, in the same person, the title andauthority of king; and that the unfortunate Childeric,a victim of the public safety, should be degraded,shaved, and confined in a monastery for the remainderof his days. An answer so agreeable to their wisheswas accepted by the Franks, as the opinion of a casuist,the sentence of a judge, or the oracle of a prophet: theMerovingian race disappeared from the earth; andPepin was exalted on a buckler by the suffrage of afree people, accustomed to obey his laws and to marchunder his standard. His coronation was twice per足formed, with the sanction of the popes, by their mostfaithful servant St. Boniface, the apostle of Germany,and by the grateful hands of Stephen HI. who, in themonastery of St. Denys, placed the diadem on the headof his benefactor. The royal unction of the kings ofIsrael was dexterously applied,"1 the successor of St. Peter k Not absolutely for the first time. On a less conspicuous theatre it had beenused, in the sixth and seventh centuries, by the provincial bishops of Britain andSpain. The royal unction of Constantinople was borrowed from the Latins in thehvst age of the empire. Coostantine Manasses mentions that of Charlemagne as a