OCR Output . XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 45 fus, who brought their soldiers along with them, together withthose Romans who had been besieged : but Sabinus did not comeinto Varus's presence, but stole out of the city privately, andwent to the sea-side. ' 10. Upon this Varus sent a part of his army into the country,to seek out those that had been the authors of the revolt; andwhen they were discovered, he punished some of them that weremost guilty, and some he dismissed : now the number of thosethat were crucified on this account we're two thousand. Afterwhich he disbanded his army, which he found nowise useful tohim in the affairs he came about; for they behaved themselvesvery disorderly, and disobeyed his orders, and what Varus de­sired them to do, and this out of regard to that gain which theymade by the mischief they did. As for himself, when he wasinformed that ten thousand Jews had gotten together, he mad*haste to catch them ; but they did not proceed so far as to fighthim, but, by the advice of Achiabus, they came together, anddelivered themselves up to him : hereupon Varus forgave theprime of revolting to the multitude, but sent their several com­manders to Caesar, many of whom Caesar dismissed ; but for theseveral relations of Herod who had been among these men in thiswar, they were the only persons whom he punished, who, with,put the least regard to justice, fought against their own kindred. CHAP. XI. ,rf« anibatsage of the Jews to Casar ; and imu Casar confirmedHerod's testament, § i. CO when Varus had settled these affairs, and had placed^ the former legion at Jerusalem, he returned back toAntioch ; but as for Archelaus, he had new sources of troublecome upon him at Rome, on the occasions following : for an am-bassage of the Jews was come to Rome, Varus having permit­ted the nation to send it, that they might petition for the libertyof living by their own laws *. Now, the number of the am­bassadors that were sent by the authority of the nation was fifty,to which they joined above eight thousand of the Jews that wereat Rome already. Hereupon Caesar assembled his friends, and'the chief men among the Romans, in the temple of Apollo f,which he had built at a vast charge ; whither the ambassadorscame, and a multitude of the Jews that were there already, camewith them, as did also Archelaus and his friends ; but as forthe several kinsmen which Archelaus had, they would not join themselves « See Of the War, B. II. ch. ii. sect. 3. t Set the note, Of the Ww, B. It. eh. vi. sect' i.