OCR Output ISCA. a ISIS. most distinct notice of the road from Seaton, and,nine miles from Exeter, the locality called Street-wayHead; the name street = road (when not through atmm or rillnge) being strong evidence of the waybrim; Roman. Tcsselated pavements and the foun­dations of Roman walls have been found at Exeter,as well as other remains, showing that it was not<mly a Roman town, but a Roman town of im­portance, as it continued to be in the Saxon times,and as it bad probably been in the British. 2 Isca I,kc.ionis= Caerleon-on-Usk, is men-tim.nl in the I2th Itinerary, Le. in the one whereIsca Dutnnoniorum occurs. The only town givenby Ptolemy to the Silures, the population of the partsto which Isca ^sometimes called by later writersIsca Silurum) belongs, is Bullaeum. This = Bur-rinm of the Itinerary, 8 Roman miles from Isca(= Ust, about 6 English miles from Caerleon.)Hence, Isca may have been a military station ofcomparatively recent date. But there is a fur­ther complication. It is the Devonshire Isca towhich Ptolemy gives the Second Legion (Arylwifvrrpa StSaarJ)). "This," remarks Horsley (and,perhaps, with truth), on the part of Ptolemy, is,"in my opinion, the only manifest and materialerror committed by him in this part of England"(p. 462). Again: several inscriptions from the Wall (perluvam VaUi) show that, when that was built, thesecond Legion was on the Scottish border, takingpart in the work; the previous history of the legionbang, that it came into Britain under the reign ofClaudius, commanded by Vespasian. (Tac. Uist.in. 44.) On the other hand, an inscription men­tioned by Horsley, but now lost (p. 78), indicatestheir presence at Caerleon in the time of Severus.As the Itinerary places them there also, we mustsuppose that this was their quarters until the timesapproaching the evacuation of Britain. When theSotitia was made, they were at Rutupiae (Hich-boro'): praepositus LECIONI3 II. AUGCST. RU-TUMS. Tbe Roman remains found at Caerleon are con­siderable. A late excavation for the parts about theCastle. Mound gave the remains of a Roman villa,along with those of a medieval castle, built, to a greatextent, out of the materials of the former. In somecases the stucco preserved its colour. There wasabundance of pottery,—Samian ware, ornamentedwith figures of combatant gladiators, keys, bowls,bronze ornaments, and implements. At Pit Bach,near Caerleon, tesselatcd pavements have been found,along with the following inscription: — dms ma- 5IBYS TAOIA VEIXAVIVS . VIX1T ANXOS SEXA-GIXTA O.VI.VQVK . KTTADIVS EXUPERTVS FILIVSVLXIT ASNOS TRIG1XTA KEPTEM . DEFVNTVS (sic)EXPEDITIONE OERMAXICA . TADIA EXUPERATAnUA MATRI ET PATUI P1ISSIHA SECTS TV- mvlvm patrm posvit. Others, of less length, totbe number of twenty, have also been found in theneighbourhood. (See Arehaeologia Cambrensis;Journal of British Archaeological Association(passim); and JJelineations of Roman Antiquitiesfmnd at Caerleon. J. E. Lee.) [R. G. L.] ISCA. river. [Isaca.] ISCA'DIA (EioicaSia), a town in the W. of Bae-tica, between the Baetis and the Anas, not far fromToco. (Appian, //up. 68.) [P. S.] ISCHALIS, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy(il 3. § 28) as one of the towns of the Belgne, Bathand Winchester ("TSara Ow^i or Aquae Soils, and Venta) being the other two; identified, in theMonu-menta Britannica, with Ilchesler. [Isca Dimso-niorum.] [R. G. L.] ISCHO'POLIS ('IffxoiroXij), a small town on thecoast of Pontus near Phamacia, was in ruins evenin the time of Strabo (xii. p. 548), but is stillnoticed by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 5). [L. S.] ISIACO'RUM PORTUS('I<r.a«c»» AiuV, Arrian,Peripl. p. 21, Anon. Peripl. p. 9), a harbour on theEuxinc sea, 380 stadia from the island at the monthof the Borysthenes, and 1200 stadia from the Psilon(Sulina) mouth of the Danube. (Arrian, /. c.) Ithas been identified by Rennell (Comp. Geog. vol. ii.p. 360) with Odessa. There is some difficulty inadjusting the discrepancies in detail; but the aggre­gate distance appears to be clearly enough madeout. Thus, from the island to Odessus Arrian allowsa distance of 80 stadia, and from Odessus to theport of the Istrians CloTpiavwv Aturjr) 250 stadia,and thence to that of the Isiaci 50 stadia. TheODESSUs('OSno'o-o's) of Arrian (for he places Odessusat Varna) is probably a false reading, and is thesame as the Ordesus ('OpSriads) of Ptolemy (iii. 5.§ 29) and Pliny (iv. 12), situated upon the riverAxiaces, or the modem Teligul, a large estuarywhich receives a river of the same name. As theinterval in Arrian between Odessus (Ordesus) andthe island is too short, so the next is too large; butthe errors balance one another, and the harbour ofthe Isiaci agrees with that of Odessa within threequarters of a mile; the port of the Istrians mayhave lain to the N. of the bay of Odessa. [E. B. J.] ISIDIS 0PP1DUM (Pirn. v. 10. s. 11). Near thecity of Busiris, in the Aegyptian Delta, was situateda splendid temple of Isis, around which, besides theordinary dwellings of tho priests within the sacredprecincts, gradually clustered a large and flourishingvillage, inhabited by the artisans and husbandmenwho supplied the wants or tilled the lands of theinmates of the temple. These buildings formedprobably the hamlet or town of Isis mentioned byPliny. The modern village of Bahbeyt. N. of thoancient city of Busiris. is supposed to cover theruins of the Templum Isidis. (Pococke, Travels intlie East, vol. i. p. 34; Minutoi, p. 304.) [Bu-sims.] [W. B. D.] ISIN1SCA, a place in Rhaetia Secunda, on thoancient road between Augsburg and Salzburg. (Itin.Ant. pp. 236, 251, 257; Tab. Pent, where it iscalled Isunisca.) It is identified by some with hen,and by others with a place near Ilelfendorf [L. S.J ISIONDA ('I<noV5a), a town in the south-westof Pisidia, a few miles to the north-west of Tcr-messus. (Polyb. Exc. de Leg. 31; Liv. xxxviii. 15.)Strabo (xii. p. 570), in enumerating the Pisidiantowns, mentions one which he calls Simla, a namewhich some editors believe to be a corrupt reading forIsionda; but, as there existed a town of the name i>fSinda near Cibyra in Pisidian Phrygia, it would bohazardous to decide anything. (See Kramer's noteon Strab. I. c.) Sir C. Fellowes (Asia Minor, p.194) found extensive remains of an ancient town onthe top and side of one of the many isolated hills ofthe district, which he supposes to be the ruins ofIsionda, but he does not mention any coins or in­scriptions in support of his conjecture. [L. S.] ISIS (o "lots), a navigable river on the cast coastof the Euxine between the Acinasis and Mogrus,from each of which its distance amounted to 90stadia, while its mouth was 180 stadia south of thatof the Phasis. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 7 ; Plin. vi. 4; F2