OCR Output 202 THE DECLINE AND FALL Mary, the birth of Christ, and the thirty years that preceded the exercise of hi*ministry. He first appeared on the banks of the Jordan in the form of perfectmanhood; but it was a form only, and not a substance; a human figure created bythe hand of Omnipotence, to imitate the faculties and actions of a man, and to im­pose a perpetual illusion on the senses of his friends and enemies. Articulatesounds vibrated on the ears of the disciples; but the image, which was impressedon their optic nerve, eluded the more stubborn evidence of the touch; and theyenjoyed the spiritual, not the corporeal presence of the Son of God. The rageof the Jews was idly wasted against an impassive phantom; and the mystic scenesof the passion and death, and the resurrection of Christ, were represented on thetheatre of Jerusalem for the benefit of mankind. If it were urged, that such idealmimicry, such incessant deception, was unworthy of the God of truth, the Docetesagreed itit\\ too many of their orthodox brethren in the justification of pious false­hood. In the system of the Gnostics, the Jehovah of Israel, the creator of thislower world, was a rebellious, or at least an ignorant spirit. The Son of God de­scended upon earth to abolish his temple and his law: and for the accomplishmentof this salutary end, he dexterously transferred to his own person the hope andpredictiori of a temporal Messiah. One of the most subtle disputants of the Manichaean school, has pressed thedanger and the indecency of supposing, that the God of the Christians in the stateof a human fetus, emerged at the end of nine months from a female womb. Thepious horror of his antagonists provoked them to disclaim all sensual circumstancesof conception and delivery; to maintain that the divinity passed through Mary likea sun-beam through a plate of glass, and to assert, that the seal of her virginity re­mained unbroken even at the moment when she became the mother, of Christ.But the rashness of these concessions has encouraged a milder sentiment of thoseof the Docetes, who taught, not that Christ was a phantom, but that he was clothedwith an impassable and incorruptible body. Such, indeed, in the more orthodoxsystem, he has acquired since his resurrection, and such he must have always pos­sessed, if it were capable of pervading, without resistance or injury, the densityof intermedials matter. Devoid of its most essential properties, it might be ex­empt from the attributes and infirmities of the flesh. A foetus that could increasefrom an invisible point to its full maturity; a child, that could attain the stature ofperfect manhood, without deriving any nourishment from the ordinary sources,might continue to exist without repairing a daily waste from a daily supply of ex­ternal matter. Jesus might share the repasts of his disciples without being sub­ject to the calls of thirst or hunger; and his virgin purity was never sullied by theinvoluntary stains of sensual concupiscence. Of a body thus singularly constituted,a question would arise, by what means, and of what materials, it was originallyframed; and our sounder theology is startled by an answer which was not peculiarto the Gnostics, that both the form and the substance proceeded from the divineessence. The idea of pure and absolute spirit is a refinement of modern philoso­phy; the incorporeal essence, ascribed by the ancients to human souls, celestialbeings, and even the Deity himself, does not exclude the notion of extended space;and their imagination was satisfied with a subtle nature of air, or fire, or ether, in­comparably more perfect than the grossness of the material world. If we definethe place, we must describe the figure of the Deity. Our experience, perhapsour vanity, represents the power of reason and virtue under a human form. The"anthropomorphithes, who swarmed among the monks of Egypt, and the catho­lics of Africa, could produce the express declaration of Scripture, that man wasmade after the image of his Creator.(l) The venerable Serapian, one of thesaints of the Nitrian desert, relinquished, with many a tear, his darling prejudice,and bewailed, like an infant, his unlucky conversion, which had stolen away hisGod, and left his mind without any visible object of faith or devotion. (2) (1) The pilgrim Cassian, who visited Egypt in the beginning of the fifth century, observes and lament! thereign of anthropomorphism among the monks, who were not conscious that they embraced the system of Epi-enrus. (Cicero, de Nat. Deorum, 1 18— 34.) Ab oniverso propemodum genere monachorum, qui per totamprovinciam Egyptum morabantur, pro simplieitatis errors suseeptum est, ut e eontrario memoratura pontifi-cem (Theophilus) velut hseresi gravissima df praratum, pars maxima seniorum ab unirerso f raternitatit corporedecerneret destestandnm. (Cassian, Collation, 16.3.) As long as St. Augustin remained a Manicbsean, be wasscandalized by the anthropomorphism of the vulgar catholics. (2) Tta est inoratione senex im*nteconfuius,eoquod iliam MvSpoHro^op^ow imaginem Deitatis, quam propo-nere sibi in oratione consueverat aboleri de suo corde sentiret, lit in amarissimos fletus, crebmsque singultusrepente prorumpens, in terrain prostratut, cum ejulatu validissimo proclamaret,—" Heu me'misenim!" tulerunta me Deum meum, et quern nunc tencam non habeo, vel quern adorera. aut imerpellera jam nescio. Cassian.Collat. 10.2.