OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAPTER XLVIII. Flan of the remainder of the work.—Succession and characters of the Greek emperors ofConstantinople, from the time of Heraclius to the Latin conquest. I have now deduced from Trajan to Constantine, from Constantine to Hera­clius, the regular series of the Roman emperors; and faithfully exposed the pros­perous and adverse fortunes of their reigns. Five centuries of the decline and fall6f the empire have already elapsed; but a period of more than eight hundredyears still separates me from the term of my labours, the taking of Constantinopleby the Turks. Should I persevere in the same course, should I observe the samemeasure, a prolix and slender thread would be spun through many a volume, norwould the patient reader find an adequate reward of instruction or amusement.At every step as we sink deeper in the decline and fall of the eastern empire, theannals of each succeeding reign would impose a more ungrateful and melancholytask. These annals must continue to repeat a tedious and uniform tale of weak­ness and misery; the natural connexion of causes and events would be broken byfrequent and hasty transitions, and a minute accumulation of circumstances mustdestroy the light and effect of those general pictures which compose the use andornament of a remote history. From the time of Heraclius, the Byzantine thea­tre is contracted and darkened: the line of empire, which had ,been defined bythe laws of Justinian and the arms of Belisarius, recedes on all sides from our view:the Roman name, the proper subject of our inquiries, is reduced to a narrow cor­ner of Europe, to the lonely suburbs of Constantinople; and the fate of the Greekempire has been compared to that of the Rhine, which loses itself in the sands,before its waters can mingle with the ocean. The scale of dominion, is dimi­nished to our view by the distance of time and place: nor is the loss of externalsplendour compensated by the nobler gifts of virtue and genius. In the last mo-4 ments of her decay, Constantinople was doubtless more opulent and populous thanAthens at her most flourishing era, when a scanty sum ot six thousand talents, ortwelve hundred thousand pounds sterling, was possessed by twenty-one thousandmale citizens of an adult age. But each of these citizens was a freeman who daredto assert the liberty of his thoughts, words, and actions; whose person and proper­ty were guarded by equal law; and who exercised his independent vote in thegovernment of the republic. Their numbers seem to be multiplied by the strongand various discriminations of character: under the shield of freedom, on thewings of emulation and vanity, each Athenian aspired to the level of the nationaldignity: from this commanding eminence, some chosen spirits soared beyond thereac\i of a vulgar eye; and the chances of superior merit in a great and populouskingdom, as they are proved by experience, would excuse the computation ofimaginary millions. The territories of Athens, Sparta, and their allies, do notexceed a moderate province of France or England: but after the trophies of Sa-lamis and Platiea, they expand in our fancy to the gigantic size of Asia whichhad been trampled under the feet of the victorious Greeks. But the subjects ofthe Byzantine empire, who assume and dishonour the names both of Greeksand Romans, present a dead uniformity of abject vices, which are neither soft­ened by the weakness of humanity, nor animated by the vigour of memorablecrimes. The freemen of antiquity might repeat with generous enthusiasm thesentence of Homer, that on the first day of his servitude, the captive is deprivedof one-half of his manly virtue. But the poet had only seen the effects of civil ordomestic slavery, nor could he foretel that the second moiety of manhood must beannihilated by the spiritual despotism, which shackles, not only the actions, buteven the thoughts, of the prostrate votary. By this double yoke, the Greekswere oppressed under the successors of Heraclius, the tyrant; a law of eternaljustice was degraded by the vices of his subjects; and on the throne, in the camp,in the schools, we search, perhaps with fruitless diligence, the names and charac­ters that may deserve to be rescued from oblivion. Nor are the defects of thesubjects compensated by the skill and variety of the painters. Of a space ofeight hundred years, the four first centuries are overspread with a cloud inter­rupted by some faint and broken rays of historic light: in the lives of the empe­