OCR Output Jfi2 *MAXTIN'EIA. "MANTIKEIA. Orehomenns and Caphyae on the N., and that ofTegea ant) Pallnntium on the S. The distance be­tween Mantineia and Tegcn is about 10 Englishmil«'s in a direct line. The height of the plainwhere Mantineia stood is 2067 feet altovo the levelof the sea. Owing to its sit tuition, M;intineia wasa place of great military importance, and its territorywas the >cene of many important buttles, as has beenalready related. It stood npon the river Ophis,nearjy in the centre of the plain of Tripolitzti as tolength, and in one of the narrowest part.s as tobreadth. It was enclosed between two ranges ofhilU, on the E. and the W., running parallel to Mts.Artemi.sium and Maenalas respectively. The easternhill was called Alkhitm ('AA^o-iov, Paus. viii. 10.§ 1), and between it and Artemisium lay the plaincalled by Panamas (viii. 7. § 1) to apybv xtliiov,or the ** Uncultivated Plain." (viii. 8. § 1.) Therange of hills on the W. had no distinct name:between them and Mt. Maenahis there, was also aplain called Alcimedon ('AAjupcSwr, Paus. viii. 12. •y . . . • , . . . , Mantineia was not only situated entirely in theplain, but nearly in its lowest part, an appears by thecourse of the waters. In the regularity of its forti­fications it differs from almost all other Greek citiesof which there are remains, since very few otherGreek cities stood so completely in a plain. It isnow called Paleopoli. The circuit of the walls isentire, with the exception of a small space on theN. and W. sides. In no place are there more thanthree courses of masonry existing above ground,and the height is so uniform that we may concludethat the remainder of the walls was constructed ofunbaked bricks. The city had 9 or 10 gates, theapproach to which was carefully defended. Alongthe walls there were towers at regular distances.Leake reckoned 118 towers, and says that the citywas about 2£ miles in circumference; but Rossmakes the city considerably larger, giving 129 or130 as the number of the towers, and from 28 to30 stadia, or about 3J Knglish miles, as the cir­cuit of the city. The walls of the city are surroundedby a ditch, through which ths river Ophis flows.This stream is composed of several rivulets, of whichthe most important rises on Mt. Alcsium, on the E.side of the city : the different rivulets unite on theNW. side of the town, and flow westward into akatavothra. Before the capture of Mantineia byAgesipolis, the Ophis was made to flow through thecity : and it is probable that all the water-coursesof the surrounding plain were then collected into onechannel above the city. Of the buildings in the in­terior of the city, described by Pausanias, few remainsare left. Nearly in the centre of the city arc theruins of the theatre, of which the diameter was about240 feet; and west of the theatre, R<*ts observedthe foundations of the temple of Aphrodite Sym-machia, which the Mantineians erected to com­memorate the share they had taken in the battle ofActium. (Paus. viii. 9. § 6.) The territory of Mantineia is frequently describedby the ancient writers, from its having been so oftenthe neat of war; but it in difficult, and almost im­possible, to identify any of the localities of which weAnd mention, from the disappearance of the sanc­tuaries and monuments by which spots are indicated,and also from the nature of the plain, the topographyof which must have been frequently altered by thechnuge of the water-courses. On the latter subjecta few words axe necessary. The plain of Tripuliudy of which Mantmice formed part, is one of tbosa valleys in Arcadia, which is so completely (•but in byI mountains, that the streams which flow into it haveno outlet except through the chasms in the maun-; tains, called katavothra. [Akcama.] The part ofthe plain, which formed the territory of Mantineia,is so complete a level, that there is not, in »nneparts, a sufficient slope to carry off the waters; andthe land would be overflowed, unless trenches weremade to assist the course of the waters towards sow*one or other of the katavothra which nature hs*provided for their discharge. (Pol. xi. 11.) N<only must the direction of these trenches have beensometimes changed, but even the course of thestreams was sometimes altered, of which we Itaw aninteresting example in the history of the camj*irnof 418. It appears that the regulation of the moun­tain torrent on the frontiers of Mantinice and Tepr-atis was a frequent subject of dispute and ewi >4war between the two states; and the one frequentlyinundated the territory of the other, as a means </annoyance. This was done in 418 by Airis, wb-» letthe waters over the plain of Mantineia (I hut T. 65).This river can only lw the one called Ophis by theGeographers of the French Commission. It rises alitjc N. of Tegea, and after flowing through Tere-atis falls now into a katavothra north of the hillScope. In general the whole plain of Mantineiabears a very different aspect from what it presentedin antiquity; instead of the wood of oaks and curk-trees, described by Pausanias, there is now not asingle tree to be found; and no poet would nowthink of giving the epithet of "lovely " (foavu^)to the naked plain, covered to a great extent withstagnant water, and shut in by gray treeless racks.(Knss, Rtiwn im J'tloponnes, p. 128.) About a mile X. of the ruins of Mantineia is aaisolated hill called Gurtzx'di; north of which acaln,also at the distance of about a mile, is another hilLThe latter was probably the site of the ancirnt Man­tineia, and was therefore called Ptolis (TIt^Ah) inthe time of Pausanias (viii. 12. § 7). This apfearato have been one of the five villages from the inha­bitants of which the city on the plain »as peopled. There were several roads leading from Matninrta.Two of these roads led north of the city to Orcbotne-nus: t lie more easterly of the two passed by Ptolis, justmentioned, the fountain of Alalcomrnria, and a de­serted village named Makra (Mtupa), 30 stadia fromPtolis; the rt*d on the west parted over Mt. Anchi-siar on the northern td»pe of which was the temple ofArtemis Hymnia, which formed the boundary be­tween Mantinice and Onhommia. (Paus. riu. 12.§§ 5—9, comp. viii. 5. § 11.) A road led from Mantineia on the VY. to Methy. drium. It j«asscd through the plain Ahimedici, which was 30 stadia from the city, above wbtra was Mount Ostracina; then by the fountain l"i»>a, and, at the distance of 40 stadia from the fountain, by the small place Pktrosaca (Jl IleTpaerawaX which was on the confines of the Mantineian and Megalopolitan territories. (Pans. viii. 12. §§ 2—4 ) Two roads led from Mantineia southwards,—tba one SE. to Tegea, and the other SW. to Pnllan- tiara. On the left of the road to Terra, calVd Xkxm (Serfs) by Polybius(xi. 11. § 3),ju*t oaUida ! the gates of Mantineia, waa the hippodrome, and a ] little further on the stadium, above which rat I Mount Alesium: at the spot where the mountain 1 cea-od was the temple of Poseidon Hipjiua, which ; was 7 stadia from the city, as we learn from Poiy-