OCR Output ROMAN EMPIRE. Ruin of the Count Julian had plunged so deep into guiltnwch'0."10 an^ infamy, that his only hope was in the ruinA. D. 71L Of his country. 'After the battle of Xeres he re­commended the most effectual measures to the victoriousSaracen. "The king of the Goths is slain; their princesare fled before you, the army is routed, the nation is as­tonished. Secure with sufficient detachments the citiesof Boetica; but in person, and without delay, march tothe royal city of Toledo, and allow not the distractedChristians either time or tranquillity for the election ofa new monarch." Tarik listened to his advice. A Ro­man. captive and proselyte, who had been enfranchisedby the caliph himself, assaulted Cordova with sevenhundred horse; he swam' the river, surprised the townjand drove the Christians into the great church, wherethey defended themselves above three months. Ano­ther detachment reduced the sea-coast of Bcetica, whichin the last period of the Moorish power, has comprisedin a narrow space the populous kingdom of Grenada.The march of Tarik from the Ba.tis to theTagus,q was di­rected through the Sierra Morena, that separates Anda­lusia and Castile, till he appeared in arms under the wallsof Toledo/ The most zealous of the Catholics had es­caped with the relics of their saints; and if the gateswere shut it was only till the victor had subscribed afair and reasonable capitulation. The voluntary exileswere allowed to depart with their effects; seven churcheswere appropriated to the Christian worship; the arch­bishop and his clergy were at liberty to exercise theirfunctions, the monks to practise or neglect their penance:and the Goths and Romans were left in. all civil and 11liB direct road from Cordiiba to Toledo was measured by Mr. Swinburne'smulee in seventy-two hours and a half; but a larger computation must be adoptedfor the slow and devious march of an army. The Arabs traversed the province ofLa Mancha, which the pen of Cervantes has transformed into classic ground to thereader of every nation. 'The antiquities of Toledo, Urbi Parta in the Punic wan, Urbt Rtgia in the Birticentury.are briefly described by Nonins. (Hispanla.c. 59. p. 181—186.) He bor­rows from Roderic the fatalt palatiirm of Moorish portraits; bat modestly iosintuite*that it was no more than a Roman amphitheatre.