OCR Output CIIAP. L. 27$ in the wars of Titus; and Hadrian,. Tfye industriousexiles aspired to liberty and power; they erected syna­gogues in the, castles and qties in the wilderness, andtheir gentile converts were confounded with the chil­dren ojT Israel, whom they resembled in the outward.•The Chru- mai,k pf circumcision. The Christian mjs-ti^s. sionaries were still more active and successful:the Catholics asserted their universal reign; the sectswhom they oppressed successively seared beyond theliin^s pf the Roman empire; the JVlarc^nites and thetylaflichaeans dispersed their fantastic opinions andapocryphal gospejs; thp churches of Ye.rn.en, and the.princes of Hira and Gassan, were instructed in a purercreed by the Jacobite and I^estorian bishops.0 The li­berty of phoice was presented to th$ tribes; each Arabwas free to elect or to compose his private religion; andthe rude superstition of his house was mingled withthe subjjme theology of s.aints and philosophers. Afundamental article, p,f faith was jnculcated by the con-sen.t of the Iearne4 strangers; the existence of one su­preme proxj, wjio is exalted above the powers of heavenand earth, but who has often revealed himself tq man-kinfj. by the ministry pf his angels and prophets, andwhose grace or justice has interrupted, by seasonablemiracles, the order of nature. The most rational ofd»e Arabs acknowledged his power, though they neg-lected his worship;11 and it was habit rather than con-victipn that still attached them to the relics of idolatry.The Jews and Christians were the people of the book:the Bible was already translated into the Arabic lan­guage;'1 and the volume of the Old Testament was ac­cepted by the concord of these implacable enemies. 0 The state of the Jews and Christians in Arabia is described by Pocock fromSharestanl,'&c. (Specimen, p. 60.134, &c.) Hottinger, (Hist. Orient, p. 212—238.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot . Orient, p. 474—476.) Basnage, (Hist, des Juifs, torn.7. p. 185. torn. 8. p. 280.) and Sale. (Preliminary Discourse, p.22,&c.33,&c.) P In their offerings, it was a maxim to defraud God for the profit of the idol,not a more potent, hut a more irritable, patron. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 108, 109.) 1 Our versions now extant, whether Jewish or Christian, appear more receritthan the Koran; but the existence of a prior translation may be fairly inferred,^—1. From the perpetual practice of the synagogue, of expounding the Hebrew lessonby a paraphrase in the vulgar tongue of tin. country. 2. From the Analogy of