OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 493 Gomorrah by fire and brimstone from heaven, and to extir­pate the main body of the Amorites out of the land of Canaan,as soon as their iniquities were full,' and in these instancesincluded the young innocent infants, together with the oldhardened sinners ; when God was pleased to send an angel,and by him to destroy 185,000 Assyrians (the number at­tested to by Berosus the Chaldean, as well as by our ownBibles,) in the days of Hezekiah, most of which seem to havehad no other peculiar guilt upon them than that common tosoldiers in war, of obeying, without reserve, their king Sen­nacherib, his generals and captains: and when at the plagueof Athens, London, or Marseilles, &c. so many thousandrighteous men and women, with innocent babes, were sweptaway on a sudden by a fatal contagion, I do not rememberthat sober men have complained that God dealt unjustly withsuch his creatures, in those to us seemingly severe dispensa­tions ; nor are we certain when any such seemingly severe dispen­sations are really such, nor do we know but shortening the livesof men may sometimes be the greatest blessing to them, andprevent or put a stop to those courses of gross wickednesswhich might bring them to greater misery in the world tocome: nor is it indeed fit for such poor, weak, and ignorantcreatures as we are, in the present state, to call our Almighty,and All-wise, and All-good Creator and Benefactor, to anaccount upon any such occasions; since we cannot but ac­knowledge, that it is he that hath made us, and not we our­selves;'* that we are nothing, and have nothing of ourselvesindependent on him, but that all we are, all we have, and allwe hope for, is derived from him, from his free and undeservedbounty, which, therefore, he may justly take from us in whatway soever, and whensoever he pleases; all wise and goodmen still saying in such cases with the pious Psalmist, xxxix.9, " I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou didstit;" and with patient Job, i. 21; ii. 10, " Shall we receivegood at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil ? TheLord gave and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the i Gen. xv. lb. 3 Psal. c. 3. IV. — 42