OCR Output 374 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. and answer. Do you promise to pay me one hundredpieces of gold? was the solemn interrogation of Seius.I do promise—was the reply of Sempronius. The friendsof Sempronius, who answered for his ability and inclina­tion, might be separately sued at the option of Seius: andthe benefit of partition, or order of reciprocal actions,insensibly deviated from the strict theory of stipulation.The most cautious and deliberate consent was-justly re­quired to sustain the validity of a gratuitous promise;and the citizen who might have obtained a legal security,incurred the suspicion of fraud, and paid the forfeit ofhis neglect. But the ingenuity of the civilians success­fully laboured to convert simple engagements into theform of solemn stipulations. The praetors, as the guar­dians of social faith, admitted every rational evidence ofa voluntary and deliberate act, which in their tribunalproduced an equitable obligation, and for which theygave an action and a remedy/Benefits, 2. The obligations of the second class, as they werecontracted by the delivery of a thing, are marked by thecivilians with the epithet of real.2 A grateful return isdue to the author of a benefit; and whoever is intrustedwith the property of another, has bound himself to thesacred duty of restitution. In the case of a friendly loan,the merit of generosity is on the side of the lender only;in a deposit, on the side of the receiver: but in a pledge,and the rest of the selfish commerce of ordinary life, thebenefit is compensated by an equivalent, and the obliga­tion to restore is variously modified by the nature of thetransaction. The Latin language very happily expressesthe fundamental difference between the commodaiumand the mutuum, which our poverty is reduced to con- J The Jus Pratorium de Pactis et Transactinnibus is a separate and satisfactorytreatise of Gerard Noodt. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 483—564.) And 1 will here observethat the universities of Holland and Brandenburgl], in the beginning of the presentcentury, appear to have studied the civil law on the most jnst and liberal principles. 1 The nice and various subject of contracts by consent is spread over four books(17—20.) of the Pandects, and is one of the parts best deserving of the attention ofan English student.