OCR Output 204 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. then other laws also would not cease to be heard amid theclashing of swords? They had now the standing army, thesoldier-class, the body-guard; as in the civil constitution, soalso in the military all the pillars of the future monarchy werealready in existence : the monarch alone was wanting. Whenthe twelve eagles circled round the Palatine hill, they usheredin the Kings; the new eagle which Gaius Marius bestowedon the legions proclaimed the advent of the Emperors.Politiciil There is hardly any doubt that Marius entered into projects of the brilliant prospects which his military and politi-Manus. cai pOsition opened up to him. It was a sad and troubledtime. They had peace, but they did not profit- by peace;the state of things was not now such as it had for­merly been after the first mighty onset of the northernpeoples on Rome, when, so soon as the crisis was over, allenergies were roused anew in the fresh consciousness of re­covered health and had by their vigorous development rapidlyand amply made up for what was lost. Every one felt that,though able generals might still once and again avert imme­diate destruction, the commonwealth was only the moresurely on the way to ruin under the government of the re­stored oligarchy; but every one felt also that the time waspast when in such cases the burgess-body provided its ownredress, and that there was no amendment so long as theplace of Gaius Gracchus remained empty. How deeply themultitude felt the blank that was left after the disappearanceof those two illustrious youths who had opened the gates torevolution, and how childishly in fact it grasped at anyshadow of a substitute, was shown by the case of the pretendedson of Tiberius Gracchus, who, although the very sister ofthe two Gracchi charged him with fraud in the open Forum,99. was yet chosen by the people in 655 as tribune solely onaccount of his usurped name. In the same spirit the mul­titude exulted in the presence of Gaius Marius; how shouldit not? He, if any one, seemed the proper man—he was atany rate the first general and the most popular name of histime, confessedly brave and upright, and recommended as re­generator of the state by his very position aloof from thestruggles of party—how should not the people, how shouldnot he himself, have deemed that he was so! Public opinionas decidedly as possible favoured the opposition. It was a sig­nificant indication of this, that the proposal to have the vacantstalls in the chief priestly colleges filled up by the burgesses