OCR Output an. 899.] 327 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. see this river full of water, till the army andcattle be saved by drinking of it. JNor willthis be all the favour that you shall receivefrom God; but you shall also overcome yourenemies, and take the best and strongestcities of the Moabites; and you shall *cutdown their fruit trees, and lay waste theircountry, and stop up their fountains andrivers." Accordingly, the next day before sun-rise,a great torrent ran strongly: for God hadcaused it to rain very plentifully at the dis­tance of three days' journey in Edom. Sothat the army and the cattle found water inabundance. But when the Moabites heardthat the three kings were coming upon them,and made their approach through the wil­derness, the king of JVloab gathered his armytogether presently, and commanded them toencamp upon the mountains; that when theenemies should attempt to enter their country,they might not be concealed from them. Butat the rising of the sun when they saw thewater in the torrent; for it was not far fromthe land of Moab, and that it was of thecolour of blood; (for at such a time the waterespecially looks red, by the shining of thesun upon it;) they formed a false notion of thestate of their enemies, as if they had slainone another for thirst, and that the river ranwith their blood. However, supposing thatthis was the case, they desired their kingwould send them out to spoil their enemies.Whereupon they all went in haste, as to anadvantage already gained; and came to theenemy's camp; as supposing them destroyedalready. But their hope deceived them; foras their enemies stood round about them,some of them were cut in pieces, and otherswere dispersed, and fled to their own coun­try. And when the kings came to the landof Moab, they overthrew the cities that werein it, and spoiled their fields, and marredthem; filling them with stones out of thebrooks; and cut down the best of their trees,and stopped up their fountains of water, and overthrew their walls to the foundations.But the king of Moab, when he was pursued,endured a siege; and seeing his city in dan­ger of being overthrown by force, he madea sally with seven hundred men, in order tobreak through the enemies' camp with hishorsemen, on that side where the watchseemed to be kept most negligently; andwhen, upon trial, he could not get away, hereturned to the city, and committed an ac­tion expressive of despair, and the utmostdistress: for he took his eldest son, who wasto reign after him, and lifting him up uponthe wall, that he might be visible to all theenemies, he offered him as a whole burnt-offering to God. When the kings saw this,they commiserated the distress that had oc­casioned it; and were so affected, that theyraised the siege, and every one returned tohis own house. So Jehoshaphat came to Je­rusalem, and continued in peace there, andsurvived this expedition but a little time,and then died; having lived in all sixtyyears, and reigned twenty-five.t He wasburied in a magnificent manner in Jeru­salem; for he had imitated the actions ofDavid. CHAP. IV. OF JF.ItOKAM, THE SUCCESSOR OF JEHOSHAPHAT; OF JORAMKING OF ISRAEL, AND THE WONDERS PERFORMED BY THEPROPHET ELISHA. JEHOSHAPHAT had a considerablenumber of children, but he appointedhis eldest son Jehoram, to be his successor;Jwho had the same name with his mother'sbrother, that was king of Israel, and the sonof Ahab. Now when the king of Israel wascome out of the land of Moab to Samaria, hehad with him Elisha the prophet, whose acts 1 have a mind to go over particularly, forthey were illustrious and worthy to be re­lated; as we have them set down in thesacred books. For they say that the ||widow of Obadiah, * This practice of cutting down, or plucking up by theroots the fruit trees, was forbidden in ordinary wars, bythe law of Moses, Deut. xx. 19, 20. and only allowed byGod in this particular case, when the Moabites were tobe punished and cut off in an extraordinary manner fortheir wickedness. See Jer. xlviii. 11, 12, 13. and manysimilar prophecies against them. Nothing could there­fore justify this practice, but a particular commission from God, by his prophet; as in the present case; which wasever a sufficient warrant for breaking any such ritual orceremonial law. From an. 919 to 894 B. C. 1 Kings xxii. 50. That this woman who cried to Elisha, and who, inour Bible, is styled the wife of one of the prophets, 2 Kings ir. 1. was no other than the widow of Obadiah,