OCR Output A. D. 19.] OF TACITC8. 133 ing as much as possible in the open sea, withouttouching at any of the islands, or approaching toonear to the main land. Meanwhile, deserters crowd­ed in from all quarters. Piso formed them into com­panies ; he armed the lowest followers of the army,and with this hasty levy embarked for the continent.He had not long been landed, when a body of recruits,marching to the legions in Syria, fell in his way. Hedrew them over to his party, and by circular lettersdemanded succours from the petty kings of Cilicia.The younger Pisb, though he had objected to themeasure, was not inactive in his father's service. LXXIX. Piso's fleet, and that which conveyedAgrippina, met near the coast of Lycia and Pamphilia.They beheld each other with animosity. Both par­ties were eager to come to action; but they passedeach other, content with throwing out reproaches andopprobrious language. Vibius Marsus summonedPiso " to appear at Rome, and stand his trial." Pisoanswered with derision, " that he would be sure to" attend, when the prsetor, vested with jurisdiction in" matters of poison, had cited the parties, and ap-" pointed a day." Meanwhile Domitius, who had land­ed at Laodicea, in the province of Syria, advancedtowards the winter-quarters of the sixth legion; expect­ing in that corps, to find the minds of the men ripe formutiny and desertion. By the vigilance of Pacuvius,who commanded in those parts, the attempt was frus­trated. Sentius, by letters to Piso, complained ofthese proceedings; at the same time warning him nei­ther to corrupt the army nor disturb the peace of theprovince. His next care was to draught from the le­gions all such soldiers as were known to be attachedto Germanicus, or adverse to his enemies! He repre­sented the attempts of Piso, as an invasion of the im­perial dignity, and a war against the commonwealth.Having excited the ardour of his men, he, marchedinto Cilicia, prepared to decide the dispute by forceof arms. LXXX. Piso found himself presned on every side,and yet was determined not to abandon his enterprise.He seized a strong hold in Cilicia, called the castle of Vol. I.—M