OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 141 Asia Minor. It is significant of the greatness of the evil, thatan attempt of the government to check the worst iniquitiesof the slaveholders was. the immediate cause of the newinsurrection. That the free proletarians in Sicily werelittle better off than the slaves, had been shown by theirattitude in the first insurrection (P. 81); after it was sub­dued the Roman speculators took their revenge, and placednumbers of the free provincials among their slaves. In con­sequence of a sharp enactment issued against this by thesenate in 650, Publius Licinius Nerva, the governor of 104,Sicily at the time, appointed a court for deciding on claimsof freedom to sit in Syracuse. The court went earnestly towork ; in a short time decision was given in eight hundred pro­cesses against the slave-owners, and the number of causes independence was daily on the increase. The terrified plantershastened to Syracuse, to compel the Roman governor to isuspend such unparalleled administration of justice; Nervawas weak enough to let himself be terrified, and in harshlanguage informed the non-free persons requesting trial,that they should forego their troublesome demand for rightand justice and should instantly return to those who calledthemselves their masters. Those who were thus dismissed,instead of doing as he bade them, formed a conspiracy andwent to the mountains. The governor was not prepared formilitary measures, and even the wretched militia of theisland was not immediately at hand; so that he concludedan alliance with one of the best known captains of bandittiin the island, and induced him by the promise of personalpardon to betray the revolted slaves into the hands of theRomans. He thus gained the mastery over this band.But another band of runaway slaves succeeded in defeatinga division of the garrison of Enna (Castrogiovanni) ; and thisfirst success procured for the insurgents—what they espe­cially needed—arms and reinforcements. The armour oftheir fallen or fugitive opponents furnished the first basis oftheir military organization, and the number of the insur­gents soon swelled to many thousands. These Syrians in aforeign land already, like their predecessors, seemed tothemselves not unworthy to be governed by kings, as weretheir countrymen at home; and—parodying the trumperyking of their native land down to the very name—theyplaced the slave Salvius at their head as king Tryphon.In the district between Enna and Leoutini (Lentini) where