OCR Output ah. 27a] 423 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was dead, and had left a young son, who wascalled Onias, Simon's brother Eleazar, ofwhom we are speaking, took the high-priest­hood. And he it was to whom Ptolemywrote, and that in the manner following:— "King Ptolemy to Eleazar the high-priestsendeth greeting. There are many Jews whodwell now in my kingdom, whom the Persians,when they were in power, carried captives.These were honoured by my father: some ofthem he placed in the army, and gave themgreater pay than ordinary; to others of them,when they came with him into Egypt, he com­mitted his garrisons, and the guarding ofthem, that they might be a terror to theEgyptians. And when I had taken the go­vernment, I treated all men with humanity;and especially those that are thy fellow-citi­zens. Of whom I have set free above a hun­dred thousand, that were slaves; and paidthe price of their redemption to their mas­ters, out of my own revenues; and those thatare of a fit age I have admitted into the num­ber of my soldiers. And for such as are ca­pable of being faithful to me, and proper forray court, I have put them in such a post: asthinking this kindness done to them to be avery great and acceptable gift, which I de­vote to God for his providence over me. Andas I am desirous to do what will be gratefulto these, and to all the other Jews in the ha­bitable earth, I have determined to procure aninterpretation of your law, and to have ittranslated out of Hebrew into Greek, and tobe deposited in my library. Thou wilt there­fore do well to choose out and send to memen of a good character, who are now el­ders in age, and six hi number, out of everytribe. These, by their age, must be skilfulin the laws; and of abilities to make an ac­curate interpretation of them. And whenthis shall be finished, I shall think that I havedone a work glorious to myself. And I havesent to thee Andreas, the captain of my guard,and Aristeus, men whom I have in very greatesteem; by whom 1 have sent those firstfruits -which I have dedicated to the temple,and to the sacrifices, and to other uses to thevalue of a hundred talents. And if thou wilt * When we have, here and presently, mention madeof Philadelphus's queen and Bister, Arsinoe, we are toremember, with Spanheim, that Arsinoe was both hisgxster and his wife; according to the whole custom of send to let me know what thou wouldest havefarther, thou wilt do a thing acceptable tome." When this epistle was brought to Eleazar,he wrote an answer to it, with all the respectpossible: "Eleazar, the high-priest, to kingPtolemy, sendeth greeting. If thou, and thy*queen Arsinoe, and thy children be well, weare entirely satisfied. When we receivedthy epistle, we greatly rejoiced at thy inten­tions. And when the multitude were gather­ed together, we read it to them: and therebymade them sensible of the piety thou hasttowards God. We also shewed them twentyvials of gold, and thirty of silver; and thefive large basons, and the table for the shew-bread: as also the hundred talents for thesacrifices, and for the making what shall beneedful at the temple. Which thing Andreasand Aristeus, those most honoured friends ofthine, have brought us. And truly they arepersons of an excellent character, and ofgreat learning, and worthy of thy virtue.Know then, that we will gratify thee in whatis for thy advantage, though we do what weused not to do before. For we ought tomake a return for the numerous acts of kind­ness which thou hast done to our country­men. We immediately therefore offeredsacrifices for thee, and thy sister, with thychildren and friends; and the multitudemade prayers that thy affairs may be to thymind; and that thy kingdom may be preserv­ed in peace; and that the translation of ourlaw may come to the conclusion thou desirest,and be for thy advantage. We have alsochosen six elders out of every tribe; whomwe have sent, and the law with them. It willbe thy part, out of thy piety and justice, tosend back the law, when it hath been trans­lated; and to return those to us that bring itin safety. Farewell." This was the reply which the high-priestmade. But it does not seem necessary to setdown the names of the seventy-two elders,who were sent by Eleazar, and carried thelaw; which yet were subjoined at the end ofthe epistle. However, I think it not improperto give an account of those very valuable and Persia, and of Egypt at this very time; nay of the Assy-rians long afterward. See XX. 2. Whence wc have,upon the coins of Philadelphus, this known inscription©fwv 'AfcXuiv. or the divine brother and sister.