OCR Output 646 DECLINE AND FALL ([CHAP. XXIV. Legal in- ft is the first care of a reformer to prevent any futureof Justi- reformation. To maintain the text of the Pandects, the,mt" Institutes, and the Code, the use of ciphers and abbrevia­tions was rigorously proscribed; and as Justinian recol­lected, that the perpetual edict had been buried under theweight of commentators, he denounced the punishmentof forgery against the rash civilians who should presumeto interpret or pervert the will of their sovereign. Thescholars of Accursius, of Bartolus, of Cujacius, shouldblush for their accumulated guilt, unless they dare to dis­pute his right of binding the authority of his successors,iand the native freedom of the mind. But ifee. emperorwas unable to fix his own inconstancy; and, while heboasted of renewing the exchange of Diomede, of trans*muting brass into gold,* he discovered the necessity ofSecond purifying his gold from the mixture of baser alloy, Si$the' Code! had not elapsed from the publication of the Code, • ^^jg34' before he condemned the imperfect attempt, by a newand more accurate edition of the same work, which he•enriched with two hundred of his own laws, and fifty de­cisions of the darkest and more intricate points of jurisrprudence. Every year, or, according to Procopius, eachday of his long reign, was marked by some legal innova­tion. Many of his acts were rescinded by himself; ma­ny were rejected by his successors, many have been oblirteratedby time; but the number of sixteen edicts, andThe Novels1one hundred and sixty-eight note LS,b has been admittedinto the authentic body of the civil jurisprudence. Inthe opinion of a philosopher, superior to the prejudices,of his profession, these incessant, and for the most parttrifling, alterations, can be only explained by the venal ■a Xgwsa ^aXxEwv, EXirojujSot EVVEa0oK»v,apud Ifumeruni patrem omnis virtutis, (1st.Praifat. ad Pandect.) A line of 'Milton or Tasso would surprise us io au act of •par­liament. Quae omnia obtinere sanctmus in omne aevum. Of the first code, he says,.'(2d Pracfat.) in aeternum valiturum. Man and for evert b Noveliae is a classic adjective, but a harharous substantive, (Ludewig. p. 245.)Justinian never collected them himself: the nine collations, the 'legal standard ofmodern tribunals, consists of ninety-eight novels; but the number was increased bythe diligence of Julian, Haloander, and Coutius. (Ludewig, p. 249. 258. Aleman.Not. in Anecdot. p. 98.) a: —565.