OCR Output 192 THE DECLINE AND FALL made desperate sallies into the city, set fire to a great number ofhouses, and filled the streets with the blood of the inhabitants. Theemperor Balbinus attempted, by ineffectual edicts and precarioustruces, to reconcile the factions at Rome. But their animosity,though smothered for a while, burnt with redoubled violence. Thesoldiers, detesting the senate and the people, despised the weaknessof a prince who wanted either the spirit or the power to commandthe obedience of his subjects19.Discontent of After the tyrant's death, his formidable army had acknowledged,guards!"0"2" from necessity rather than from choice, the authority of Maximus,whotransported himself without delay to the camp before Aquileia. Assoon as he had received their oath of fidelity, he addressed them interms full of mildness and moderation; lamented, rather thanarraigned, the wild disorders of the times, and assured the soldiers,that of all their past conduct, the senate would remember only theirgenerous desertion of the tyrant, and their voluntary return to theirduty. Maximus enforced his exhortations by a liberal donative,purified the camp by a solemn sacrifice of expiation, and then dis­missed the legions to their several provinces, impressed, as he hoped,with a lively fense of gratitude and obedience 4°. But nothing couldreconcile the haughty spirit of the Prætorians. They attended theemperors on the memorable day of their public entry into Rome;but amidst the general acclamations, the sullen dejected countenanceof the guards, sufficiently declared that they considered themselvesas the object, rather than the partners of the triumph. When thewhole body was united in their camp, those who had served underMaximin, and those who had remained at Rome, began to mingletheir complaints and apprehensions. The emperors chosen by thearmy had perished with ignominy; those elected by the senatewere seated on the throne 41. The long discord between the civiland military powers was decided by a war, in which the formerhad obtained a complete victory. The soldiers must now learn a new