OCR Output 274 MARGIANA. MABIABA. MARGIA'NA (i, Mofryio^, Strab. li. p. 516,Ptol. vi. 10; Plin. vi. 16. a. 18), a district of con­siderable extent in the western part of Central Asia,which was bounded on the W. by Hyrcania, on theN. by Scythia and the Oxus as far as Bactriana, onthe K. by Bactriana, and on the S. by Ariana. Atpresent the country is called Kkordtan, and com­prehends also some part of the territory occupied bythe Turkoman tribe*. Like most of the districts ata great distance from Greece or Rome, it was butpartially known to the ancients; hence its limitsare variously stated by ancient authors. ThusStrabo makes it the province next to Parthia, to theN. of the Sariphi mountains, and gives the sameboundaries to the W., N., and E. as the other geo­graphers (xi. p. 516). Pliny places it in the samedirection, but adds that a desert of 120 M.P. mustbe crossed before it could be reached (vi. 16. s. 18).Both Strabo and Pliny speak of the great fertilityof its land, and the fineness of its climate; the formerstating that the vines were often so large that a mancould not embrace their stems in his arms; thelatter, that it was the only district in that partof the world which produced grapes. The ac­counts of the ancients are in this particular con­firmed by modem and by Muhammedan writers.According to the latter, it would seem to havecomprehended the territory from Bunjurd on thewest, tnMerv and theMnrgh-db in the east, a tractremarkable for its beauty and fertility. (Wilson,Ariana, p. 149.) The principal river of Margiana,from which, too, it probably derived its name, wasthe Margus (now Mitrah-ab). Various races andtribes are noticed in different authors as occupying|«rts of Margiana. All of them may be consideredas of Scythian or Tatar origin;— indeed, in this partof Asia, the population has remained nearly thesame to the present day which it was in the classicaltimes. The principal of these were the Derbicx'AEor Derbices (Steph. p. 23; Strab. xi. p. 508;Di"nys. v. 734), who lived to the N. near the mouthof the Oxus; the Marsagetae, the Parmi, andthe Daae, who lived to the S. of the former alongthe Caspian and the termination of the Margus,which lo>es itself in the sands before it reaches theCaspian: and the Tapcri and Mardi. The chieftowns were, Antiociif.ia Makuiana (certainlythe present J[erv), Nisaka or Nesaea, Ariaca,and Jasonh;>i. [See thee places under their rc-apertive namcs.1 [^-] MAKGIDUM7M, in Britain (/(in. Anton, pp.477, 479). It is supposed by Camden, Stnkeley,Hnrseley, and others, to have been situated at ornear Katt Brulje/bnl, about eight miles from Wil-low/lilx/. [C. It S.] SlAKCITM or MAROVS (Mipyor, Mao?or),alsocalled ML'lHiUM, a city of Moesia, at the confluenceof t he Marcus and Danube. It was termed " Mar-gnin planum " on account of the level character ofthe surrounding country. (Jomand. de Rrb. Get.c. 58.) It was here that the emperor Carimts wastotally defeated by Diocletian. (Eutrop. ix. 13,x. 20; //. Ant. p. i.>2; It. f/ienit.f. 564.) [A.I..] MAKGI'S (Maoyoi, St tab. vii. p. 318; Margis,Plin. iii. 26. s. 29), an important river of Moesia,which flows into the Daimlie, near the town of Mar-gum, now the Morara. Strabo says (/. c.) that itwas also called Margus, and the same appears inHerodotus (iv. 44) under the form of Brongua(Bfoyyof). It ia the same river as the Moachiua(M<J<rx">0 of Ptolemy (iu. 9. § 3). [A. L.] MARGUS (Ma>yoj, Strab. xi. p. 516: PtoL vi.10. §§ 1, 4), the chief river of the peuuiice efMargiana, which in all pmbability derives its namefrom it,—now the Murgh-ab or ilerv JimL It iasaid by Ptolemy to have taken its rise in the Sariphimountains (now Hazard/), a western spur of thegreat range of the Paropamisus, and, after a twin hemcoarse and a junction with another small stream, Uhave flowed into the Oxus. The travels of SrAlexander Burnes have demonstrated that theMurgh-db no longer reaches the Oxus, but is lostin the sands about 50 miles NW. of Mtrr (Burnes,vol. ii. p. 35); but it is probable that as Luis as thetime of Ibn Haukal (about a. d. 950) it still flowedinto the Jihou (De Sacy, Mem. tar demr Prvr. d*la Perte, p. 22). The Margus passed by andwatered Antiocheia Margiana, the capital of theprovince. [^0 MAltl AHA (Mapiaga). There seem to have beenseveral cities of this name in Arabia, as there arestill several towns or sites of the name, scarcelymodified. How many distinct cities are mentionedby the classical geographers, antiquarians are notagreed, and the various readings have involved tiequestion in great perplexity. It will be well to eli­minate first those of which the notices are moatdistinct. 1. The celebrated capital of the Sabaei in Yemen,is known both in the native and classical writers.It is called the metropolis of the Sabaei by Strabo(xvi. 4. § 2). which tribe was contiguous to thatof the Minaei, who bordered on the Red Sea en oneside, and to the Catabaneis, who reached to thestraits of liab-eUMantirb. [Sabaei; Mixaei: Ca-tabasci.] It was situated on a well-wooded moan-tain, and was the royal residence. It seems difficultto imagine that this was distinct from the Marianaof Pliny, who, however, assigns it to the Atramhae,a branch of the Sabaei, and places it on a hay94 M. P. in circuit, filled with spice-beariug island*;while it is certain that the Mariaba of the Sabaranawas an inland city. It is beyond all doabt theMaarib of the Arabian historians, built according totheir traditions by 'Abd-schems, sumamed Snbm,third only in succession from the patriarch Koktaaor Joktan, son of Eber. Abolfeda says that thiscity was also called Saba; and that, in the opinknof some, Maarib was the name of the royal residence,while the city itself was called Saba. Its founderalso constructed the stupendous embankment » re­nowned in history, forming a dam for confining thewater of seventy rivers and torrents, which he con-dncted into it from a distance. (Abulfeda, HitturiaAnle-hhmica, lib. iv. ap. init.) The object of thatwas not only to supply the city with water, bat al**>to irrigate the lands, and to keep the subjugatedcountry in awe, by being masters of the water. Thewater rose to the height of almost 2') fathom*, andwas kept in on every side by a work so solid, thatmany of the inhabitants had their houses built ur««iit. It stood like a mountain above the city, ami nodanger was apprehended of its ever failing. Theinundation of El-Arem {the mound) is an sera inArabic history, and is mentioned in the K'iran asa signal instance of divine judgment on the inha­bitants of this city for their pride and insolence*A mighty flood broke down the moutnl by night,while the inhabitant* were asleep, and carried awaythe whole city, with the neighbouring tons andpeople. (Sale, Koran, cap. 34, vol ii. D. 189. ante*,and Preliminary Vitcourtt, sett. I. roL 1 p. 1S(