OCR Output Chap VIII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. nished them. Moreover, there came out of Egypt * about thistime to Jerusalem, one that said he was a prophet, and advised themultitude of the common people to go along with him to theMount of Olives, as it was called, which lay over against the city,and at the distance of five furlongs. He said farthei, that hewould shew them from hence, how, at his command, the wallsof Jerusalem would fall down ; and he promised them, that hewould procure them an entrance into the city through thosewalls, when they were fallen down. Now, when Felix was in­formed of these things, he ordered his soldiers to take their wearpons, and came against them with a great number of horsemenand footmen, from Jerusalem, and attacked the Egyptian and thepeople that were with him. He also slew four hundred of them,and took two hundred alive. But the Egyptian himself escapedout of the fight, but did not appear any more. And again therobbers stirred up the people to make war with the Romans, andsaid, they ought not to obey them at all ; and when any personwould not comply with them, they -set fire io their villages, andplundered them. 7. And now it was that a great sedition arose between theJews that inhabited Cesarea, and the Syrians who dwelt therealso, concerning their equal right to the privileges belonging tocitizens, for the Jews claimed the pre-eminence, because Herodtheir king was the builder of Cesarea, and because he was bvbirth a Jew. Now, the Syrians did not deny what was alledgedabout Herod; but they said, that Cesarea was formerly calledStrato's tower, and that then there was not one Jewish inhabitant.When the presidents of that country heard of these disorder.,they caught the authors of them on both sides, and tormentedthem with stripes, and by that means put a stop to the distur­bance for a time. But, the Jewish citizens, depending on theirwealth, and on that account despising the Syrians, reproachedthem again, and hoped to provoke them by such reproaches.However, the Syrians, though they were inferior in wealth, yetvaluing themselves highly on this account, that the greatest partof Roman soldiers that were there, were either of Cesarea orSebaste, they also for some time used reproachful language tothe Jews also ; and thus it was, till at length they came to throw­ing stones at one another, and several were wounded, and fell onboth sides, though still the Jews were the conquerors. But whenFelix saw that this quarrel was become a kind of war, he cameupon them on the sudden, and desired the Jews to desist; andwhen they refused so to do, he armed his soldiers, and sent them Z 2 out « Of this Egyptian impostor, and the number of his followers, in Josephus, ses^cts, xxi. 38.