OCR Output CHAP. 32, ROMAN HISTORY. 357 and arms, the very same. That he too was the samedictator, Mamercus /Emilius, who formerly rooted theconfederate armies of the Fidenates and Vejentes, atNomentum, even when supported by the Falisci. ThatA Cornelius, his general of the horse, would exertthe. same bravery hi battle now, as in the former war,"when only a legionary tribune, that he- slew, LarsTolnnrnius, king of the Vejentes, in sigftt of both armies,and carried the opirria spolia to the temple of JupiterFeretrius.-\ That, therefore, they ought to remember,that on their side, they had triumphs, spoils, and vic­tory: that on the enemy's, there. was only the guilt ofmurdering ambassadors, contrary to the law of nations;the massacre of the colony of FidensB,-in time of pro­found peace ; the violation of the truce, and revolts,seven times repeated, notwithstanding their bad success.They should, therefore, fly to their arms; and he wasvery certain, so soon as the two armies were engaged,these impious enemies would have but a short time torejoice over the disgrace of the Roman army. Thenwould the Roman people be fully convinced, that theywho had chosen him dictator, for the third time, had•done ihe commonwealth much more important service,than they who had set a.mark of infamy on his seconddictatorship, because he had set bounds to the tyrannyof the censors.' Having then made proper vows to thegods, he took the field and eucarriped fifteen hundredpaces beyond Fidisnav supported on the right by themountains, and on the left by the Tiber. He ordered'Titus Quinctius Pennus, his lieutenant-ge'neral, to seizethe mountains, and gain the eminence in the enemy'srear, where he might Iy, concealed. The itetftday, whenthe Etrurians, highly elevated with their success on aformer occasion, which.they owed more to fortune thanvalour, offered him battle, he waited alittlc, till his scoutsbrought him intelligence, that.Quinctius had gained theeminence, near the castle of Fidenae, and then set up his>> standard, leading on his infantry already drawn up, bya quick march, 'against the enemy, at the same Jirneenjoining the general of the horse not to engage withoutHis permission; for that.he would give him the signal,whenever the assistance of the horse became necessary;