OCR Output 574 THE DECLINE AND FALL Mamgo, with his followers, retired to the banks of the Oxus, andimplored the protection of Sapor. The emperor of China claimedthe fugitive, and alleged the rights of sovereignty. The Persianmonarch pleaded the laws of hospitality, and with some difficultyavoided a war, by the promise that he would banish Mamgo to theuttermost parts of the West; a punishment, as he described it, notless dreadful than death itself. Armenia was chosen for the placeof exile, and a large district was assigned to the Scythian horde, onwhich they might feed their flocks and herds, and remove their en­campment from one place to another, according to the differentseasons of the year. They were employed to repel the invasion ofTiridates; but their leader, after weighing the obligations and in­juries which he had received from the Persian monarch, resolved toabandon his party. The Armenian prince, who was well acquaintedwith the merit as well as power of Mamgo, treated him with dis­tinguished respect; and by admitting him into his confidence, ac­quired a brave and faithful servant, who contributed very effectuallyto his restoration 6\ The Persian! For a while, fortune appeared to favour the enterprising valour ofmenia. Tiridates. He not only expelled the enemies of his family and coun­try from the whole extent of Armenia, but in the prosecution of hisrevenge he carried his arms, or at least his incursions, into the heartof Assyria. The historian, who has preserved the name of Tiridatesfrom oblivion, celebrates, with a degree as national enthusiasm, hispersonal prowess; and, in the true spirit of eastern romance, de­scribes the giants and the elephants that fell beneath his invincible arm.It is from other information that we discover the distracted state of thePersian monarchy, to which the king of Armenia was indebted forsome part of his advantages. The throne was disputed by the am­bition of contending brothers; and Hormuz, after exerting withoutsuccess the strength of his own party, had recourse to the dangerousassistance of the barbarians who inhabited the banks of the Caspian 6 Sea.