OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 45 hand, and come to terms with him, and thereby save them­selves ; and assured them, that, if they would lay down theirarms, he would secure them from any harm; but when hocould not prevail with them, he fell upon them, and slew themall, being in number eleven thousand and six hundred. Thiswas done on the twenty-seventh day of the month Desius[Sivan.] And these were the calamities that befell the Sa­maritans at this time. 33. But as the people of Jotapata still held out manfully,and bore up under their miseries beyond all that could behoped for, on the forty-seventh day [of the siege] the bankscast up by the Romans were become higher than the wall;on which day a certain deserter went to Vespasian, and toldhim how few were left in the city, and how weak they were :and that they had been so worn out with perpetual watching,and also perpetual fighting, that they could not now opposeany force that came against them, and that they might betaken by stratagem, if any one would attack them ; for thatabout the last watch of the night, when they thought theymight have some rest from the hardships they were under,and when a morning sleep used to come upon them, as theywere thoroughly weary, he said the watch used to fall asleep ;accordingly, his advice was, that they should make their at­tack at that hour. But Vespasian had a suspicion about thisdeserter, as knowing how faithful the Jews were to oneanother, and how much they despised any punishments thatcould be inflicted on them; this last, because one of the peo­ple of Jotapata had undergone all sorts of torments, andthough they made him pass through a fiery trial of his ene­mies in his examination, yet would he inform them nothingof the affairs within the city, and as he was crucified smiledat them. However, the probability there was in the relationitself did partly confirm the truth of what the deserter toldthem, and they thought he might probably speak truth.However, Vespasian thought they should be no great sufferersif the report was a sham : so he commanded them to keep theman in custody, and prepared the army for taking the city. 34. According to which resolution they marched without