OCR Output THESSALONICA.1173 THESSALONICA. ■16 Odyssey, and of theological works, which have*n recently published by Tafel. A list of tie*;in archbishops of Thessalonica fmm 1205 to419, when a Koman hierarchy was established alongHa Western feudalism, is given by Le Quien(hiem Chrigtiamu, ni. 1089). Even to the last1 dot tide city connected with question:) of reii-uu interest. Symeon of Thessalonica, wbo is atief latiiority in the modern Greek Church on:iul subject*, died a few months before the fatalr-;r uf 1430; and Theodore Gaza, who went toaJy torn a;: •■; this siege, and, as a Latin ecclesiastic,uint the translator of Aristotle, Theophraslus,d Hippocrates, was a native of the city of Deuie-m and Eitotathius. i. Remains of AjiTiQLiTT. — The two monu-»U of greatest interest at Thessalonica are twotin cuonected with the line of the Via Egnatia.a» course of this Koman road is undoubtedly pre-rvad in the long street which intersects the city"ii east to west. At its western extremity is the nLr gale, which is nearly in the line of t he moderndi, mi which has received its present name fmmr dmunatance of its leading to the river VarddrAlius. This is the Koman arch believed byaujoor, Holland, and others to have been erected u.v peuple of Thessalonica in honour of (X tavius i Anionius, and io memory of the battle ofidippi. The arch is constructed of large blocks .' V, and is about 12 feet wide and 18 ieet high;1 s tutisiderable portion of it is buried deep below furface of the ground. On the outside face are» b'ts-reiiefa of a Koman wearing the toga anduling before a horse. On this arch is the abovc-suorwd inscription containing the names of theitarrJu of the city. Leake thinks from the styleLie Mrulpture, and Tafel from the occurrence of theFutius in the inscription, that a later daterat in be assigned to the arch. (A drawing of it;i<n by CouaineYy). The oilier arch is near theirro (said in Clarke's Travels, iv. p. 359, bylake, to be near li e western) extremity of thelb street. (A drawing of this arch also is givenCvuaine'ry and an imaginary restoration by Po­ke.) It is built of brick and faced with marble,erly consisted of three arch ways. Thei^tuml camels give an oriental aspect to the.ument; and it is generally supposed to coni-.-.i.Tat< tlie vic.ory of Cons tan tine over Licinius ■i-t the Sannatians. tear the hue of the main street, between the two 0- ioeotj arches are four Corinthian columnsfurting an architrave, above which are Carya-x TbU monumeut is now part of the liou.se ofr*; and, from a notion thai the figures wereified by magic, it is called by the Spanish Jews /%CB3ssodfi*. The Turks call it Suretk-MaUh.tut will be found in Con 1 .1 a more correct with architectural details, in Stuart and Kevett's u Antisj. vol, iii. ch. 9. p. 53). This colonnadefined by some to have been part of the Pro-sa> uf the Hippodrome, the position of which isrred by Beaujour and Clarke to have been in•noth-eastern part of the town, between the sea a, building called the Rotunda, now a mosque, 1- jualj tiie church E*ii-Metropolis but t'or- ii a temple, and in construction similar to the:b*oa at Rome. (Pococke has a ground planJom building.) Another mosque iu Thessa-a, called Eski-Djuma, is said by bean jour to a temple consecrated to Venus Thermaea. The city walls are of brick, and of Greek construc­tion, resting on a much older foundation, whichconsists of hewn stones of immense thickness.Everywhere are broken columns and fragments ofsculpture. Many remains were taken in 1430 toConstantinople. One of the towers in the city wallis called the Tower of the Statue, because it containsa colossal figure of Thessalonica, with the repre­sentation of a ship at its feet. The castle is partlyGreek and partly Venetian. Some columns of verdantique, supposed to be relics of a temple of Hercules,are to be noticed there, and also a shattered tri­umphal arch, erected (as an inscription proves) inthe reign of Marcus Aurelius. in honour of AntoninusPius and his daughter Faustina. In harmony with what has been noticed of itshistory, Thessalonica has many remains of eccle­siastical antiquity. Leake says that in this respctit surpasses any other city in Greece. The churchof greatest interest (now a mosque) is that of St.Sophia, built, according to tradition, like the churchof the same name at Constantinople, in the reign ofJustinian, and after the designs of the architectAnthemius. This church is often mentioned in thorecords of the Middle Ages, as in the letters of Po|«Innocent III. and in the account of the Normansiege. It remains very entire, and is fully describedby Beaujour and Leake. Tho clmrch of St. De­metrius (apparently the third on the same site, andnow also a mosque) is a structure of still greater sizeand beauty. Tafel believes that it was erected aboutthe end of the seventh century ; but Leake con­jectures, from its architectural features, that it wasbuilt by the Latins iu the thirteenth. Tafel hascollected with much diligence the notices of a greatnumber of churches which have existed in Thessa­lonica. Dapper says, that in his day the Greekshad the use of thirty churches. Walpole (iu Clarke'sTravels^ iv. p. 349) gives the number as sixteen.All travellers have noticed two ancient pulpits, con­sisting of "single Mocks of variegated marble, withsmall steps cut in lhem," which are among the mostinteresting ecclesiastical lemains of Thessalonica. 6. Authorities. — The travellers who havedescribed Thessalonica are numerous. The mostimportant are Paul Lucas, Second Voyage, 1705;Pococke, DetcriptUm of the East, 1743 — 1745;Beaujour, Tableau du Commerce de la Crice, trans-j lated into English, 1800 ; Clarke, TrareU in Eu­rope, gY. 1810—1823; Holland, Travel* in theIonian Isle* 1815; CousineYy, Voyage dans la,Mace'doine. 1831; Leake, Northern Greece, 1835;Zacharia, Heise in tlen Orient, 1840; G rise bach,h'eise durch Jiumelien, 1841; Bowen, Mount AthvsyThessaly, and Epint*, 1852. In the Me moire* de IWcademie de* Inscrip­tion*, torn, xxxviii. Sect. hist. pp. 121 —146, isan essay on the subject of Thessalonica by thoAbbe' ltelley; but the most elaborate work 0111 he subject is that by Tafel, the first |«art of whichwas published at Tubingen in 1835. This was CUIS OF TIlESbALOMCA. 4 ¥ 3