OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 577 purple, Italy and Africa were administered under the name ofSeverus, and were exposed, without defence, to the implacableresentment of his master Galerius. Among the martyrs of Rome,Adauctus deserves the notice of posterity. He was of a noblefamily in Italy, and had raised himself, through the successivehonours of the palace, to the important office of treasurer of theprivate demesnes. Adauctus is the more remarkable for being theonly person of rank and distinction who appears to have suffereddeath, during the whole course of this general persecution "6. The revolt of Maxentius immediately restored peace to the underchurches of Italy and Africa; and the fame tyrant who oppressedevery other class of his subjects, mewed himself just, humane, andeven partial, towards the afflicted Christians. He depended ontheir gratitude and affection, and very naturally presumed, that theiajuries which they had suffered, and the dangers which they stillapprehended from his most inveterate enemy, would secure thefidelity of a party already considerable by. their numbers and opu­lence ,67. Even the conduct of Maxentius towards the bissiops ofRome and Carthage, may be considered as the proof of his tolera­tion, since it is probable that the most orthodox princes would adoptthe fame measures with regard to their establissied clergy. Mar-cellus, the former of those prelates, had thrown the capital intoconfusion, by the severe pennance which he imposed on a greatnumber of Christians, who, during the late persecution, had re­nounced or dissembled their religion. The rage of faction brokeout in frequent and violent seditions; the blood of the faithful wasshed by each other's hands, and the exile of Marcellus, whose pru­dence seems to have been less eminent than his zeal, was found tobe the only measure capable of restoring peace to the distractedchurch of Rome ,6\ The behaviour of Mensurius, bishop of Car­thage, appears to have been still more reprehensible. A deacon ofthat city had publissied a libel against the emperor. The offender-Vol. I. 4 E took