OCR Output 8G ITALIA.ITALIA. tin1 Marsi (Cato, ap. Pn'scian. ix. 9); anil thorpcan be ii" doubt that the same relation subsisted be­tween ill'.' two nations: but we are wholly in ttiedark as to the origin of the Marsi themselves.Several circumstances, however, combine to render itprobable that they were closely connected with theSabines, but whether as a distinct offset from thatjjenple, or tliat the two proceeded from one commonstuck, we have no means of determining. [Maiisi.]The Frentaiii, on the other hand, are generally re-pre-ented as a Samnite race; indeed, both they andthe Hirpini were so closely connected with the Sain-nites, that they are often considered as forming onlya part of that people, though at other times theyfigure un independent and separate nations. Butthe traditions with regard to the establishment ofthe Hirpini and the origin of their name [IIiupini],seem to indicate that they were the result of a sepa­rate migration, subsequent to that of the body ofthe Sanmites. South of the Hirpini, again, the Lu-eanians are universally descriU'd as a Samnite co­lony, or rather a branch of the Samnites, who ex­tended their conquering arms over the greater partof the country called by the Greeks Oenotria, andthus came into direet collision with the Greek colo­nies on the southern coasts of Italy. [MagnaGhakoia.] At the height of their power the Lu-eauians even made themselves masters of the Iirut-tian peninsula; and the subsequent revolt of theliruttii did not clear that country of these SabelliaTiinvaders, the Brnttian people being apparently amixed population, made up of the Lueanian con­querors and their Oenotrian serfs. [Uruttii ]While the Samnites and their Lueanian progeny "erethus extending their power on the S. to the Sicilianstrait, they did not omit to make themselves mastersof the fertile plains of Campania, which, togetherwith the flourishing cities of Capua and Cumae, fellinto their hands between 440 and 4'20 it. c. [Cam­pania.] The dominion of the Sabellian race was thus esta­blished from the neighbourhood of Ancona to thesouthern extremity of Bruttiuin: but it must not besupposed that throughout this wide extent the popu­lation was become essentially, or even mainly, Sa-bellian. That people appears rather to have been araee of conquering warriors ■ but the rapidity withwhich they becume blended with the Osean ^>opula-tioiis that tiny found previously established in someparts at least of the countries they subdued, seemsto point to the conclusion that there was no verywide dilVeieuee between the two. Even in Samniuinitself (which probably formed their stronghold, andwhere they were doubtless more numerous in pro­portion) we know that they adopted the Oscan lan­guage; and that, while the Romans speak of thepeople and their territory as Sabellian, they designatetheir speech as Oscan. (Liv. viii. 1, x. lit, 20.) Inlike manner, we know that the Lueanian invaderscarried with them the same language into the wildsof Bruttium; w here the double origin of the peoplewas shown at a late period by their continuing tospeak both Greek and Oscan. (best. p. 35.) Therelations between these Sabellian conquerors and theOscan inhabitants of Central Italy render it, on thewhole probable, that the two nations were onlybranches fruin one common stock (Niebuhr, vol. i. .p. 104), related to one another very much like theNo! in.in-. Danes, and Saxons. Of the language of1tueSabines themselves we have unfortunately scarcely |jgNremains: but there are sonic words quoted by an- cient authors as being at once Sabine and Oscan : nndVarro (himself a native of Keate) bears distinct t*,s-t in ion v to a connection between the two. (X.irr,L. L. vii. § 28, ed. Mailer.) On the other hand,there are evidences that the Sabine language hadconsiderable atlinity with the Umbrian (Donaldson,Varron. p. H); and this was probably the reasonwhy ZcnodotU'i of Troezen (ap, Dionys. ii. 4H) de­rived the Snbines from an Umbrian stock. But, infact, the Umbrian and Oscan languages were them­selves by no means so distinct as to exclude thesupposition that the Sabine dialect may have beenintermediate between the two, aud have jartakt-tilargely of the characters of both. 4. Umbkians. — The general tradition of anti­quity appears to have fixed uj>on the Unihriansttthe most ancient of all the races inhabiting theItalian peninsula. (Flin. iii. 14. s. 19; Flor. i. 17;Dionys. i. 1(J.) We are expressly told that at theearliest period of which any memory was preserved,they occupied not only the district where we tiitdthem in historical times, but the greater part ofKtruria also; while, across the Apennines, they heldthe fertile plains (subsequently wrested from ibeMby the Ktruscans and the Gauls) from the neisb-bourhood of Kavenna to that of Ancona, and a}']«-rently a large }>:irt of Ficenum also. Thus, at thistime, the Umbrians extended from the Adriatic tothe Tyrrhemau sea, ami from the mouths of theFad us nearly to those of the Tiber. Of their originor national affinities we learn but little from ancientauthors • a notion appears to have arisen among theRomans at a late period, though not alluded to byany writer of authority, that they were a Celtic orGaulish race (Solin. 2. i; 11; Serv. ad Aim. xii. 753;Isidor. Grig. ix. 2), and this view lias bc-i-n adoptedby many modern authors. (Walckenaer, (Jivgr.tU*Gauletj vol. i. p. 10; Thierry, HUt. dts Gaulou,vol. i.) But, in tins instance, we have a much saferguide in the still extant remains of the Umbrianlanguage, preserved to us in the celebrated TabulaeKugubinac [IoL'VU'm] : and the researches of mo­dern philologers, which have been of late years espe­cially directed to that interesting monument, havesufficiently proved that it has no such close affinitywith the Celtic as to lead us to derive the Umbranifrom a Gaulish stock. On the other hand, the?*inquiries have fully established the existence at ageneral resemblance between the Umbrian, Oscan,and oldest Latin languages; a resemblance riot con­fined to particular words, but extending to the gram­matical forms, and the whole structure of the lan­guage. Hence we are fairly warranted in concludingthat the Umbrians, Oscans, and Latins (one im­portant element of the nation at Ic&tt), :ts well asthe Sabines and their descendants, were only branchesof one race, belonging, not merely to the same greatfamily of the Indo-Teutonic nations, but to the samesubdivision of that family. The Umbrian may Terrprobably have been, as believed by the Romans, themost ancient branch of these kindred tribes; andits language would thus bear much the same rela­tion to Latin aud the later Oscan dialects thaiMoeso-Gothie does to the several Teutonic tongues.(DoiiahUm, Varron. pp. 78, 104, 105; Schweglcr,Rvmistvhe Geschichtc, vol. i. p. 176.) 5. Etruscans.—While there is good reason tosuppose a general and even close atlinity between tlienations ot Central Italy which have just bern re­viewed, there are equally strong grounds for re­garding the Ktruscans as a people of wholly dif-