OCR Output B. », 3o INTRODUCTION. the son of Cimon, Diotimus the son of Strombichus, and Pro-teas the son of Epicles. Their orders were " by no means to" engage the Corinthians, unless they stood against and en-" deavoured to make a descent at Corcyra, or any of its de-" pendent places; if they did so, to resist them with all their" efforts." These orders were given with a view of not in­fringing the treaty: And this their aid of shipping arrivethat Corcyra. The Corinthians, when they had compleated their pre- /parations, set sail for Corcyra with a fleet of one hundredand fifty ships. Of these, ten belonged to the Eleans, twelveto the Megareans, ten to the Leucadians, twenty-seven tothe Ambraciots, one to the Anactorians, and the other ninetywere their own. The quotas from the allied cities had eachof them their respective commanders ; but the Corinthiansquadron was commanded by Xenoclides, the son of Euthy-cles, with four colleagues. So soon as they were all assem­bled at that part of the continent which looks towards Cor­cyra, they set sail from Leucas, and arrive at the Chime-rium in Thesprotis. A harbour openeth itself here, andabove it is the city of Ephyre, at a distance from the sea,in Eleatis, a district of Thesprotis: Near it is the outlet intothe sea of the lake of Acherusia, into which the river Ache­ron, having run through Thesprotis, is at last received; fromwhich it also deriveth its name. The river Thyamis alsorunneth here, dividing Thesprotis from Cestrine, and be­tween these two rivers ariseth the cape of Chimerium. TheCorinthians therefore arrive at this part of the continent,and fix their station there. But the Corcyreans, so soon asever advised of their sailing, having manned a hundred andten^siups under the command of Miciades, iEsimides, andEurybatus, took their station at one of those isles which arecalled the sijbota, accompanied by the ten Athenian ships.Their land force was left at the promontory of Leucimna, withan aid of a thousand heavy-armed Zacynthians. .The Co­rinthians had also ready upon the continent a numerous aid