OCR Output 436 TITUS LIVIUS" BOOK V. s • CHAP. XXIII. CuHilllits returns in triumph. The people disgutted. \\ HEN news of the reduction of Veii reached Rome,although the prodigies had been expiated, the responsesof the diviners, and of the Pythian oracle, a secret tonone; and to secure success by every device humanprudence could afford, they had chosen the greatest ge­neral of his age, Marcus Furius; yet because the fortuneof war had shifted so often, and they had met with somany defeats, the joy was incredible, as if the cause ofit had been beyond all expectation. Before the senatecouid pass any decree, the Roman ladies had filled allthe temples, returning thanks to the gods. Tbe senateordained solemn supplications for four days, a greaternumber than had ever been appointed in any formerwar. Never had any general such a retinue before, athis arrival; for all ranks and conditions ran in crowdsto meet him; and the magnificence of that day's triumph,far exceeded what was usual on such occasions. Hehimself was more especially conspicuous, having madehis entry into the city in a chariot drawn by four whitehorses; whence it was inferred, that he exalted himselfnot only above the condition of a citizen, but even ofhuman nature. They considered it as an act of impietyfor the 'dictator to be drawn by the same number ofhorses, and of the same colour too, with those of Jupiterand the sun; and this circumstance alone, however muchit might heighten the splendour of bis triumph, renderedit less agreeable to the spectators. After this he drew the plan of the temple of <]ueenJunO on the Aventine hill, and dedicated that of thegoddess Matuta. Wherefore having thus performed hisduty to the gods, and done such signal service to thestate, he abdicated the dictatorship. The present to Apollo came then under public con­sideration. When Camillas represented, that he hadvowed the tenth part of the spoils to the god, the priestsgave it as their opinion, that the people ought to per­form the vow. But to prescribe a method to make theneople bring in the spoils, so as to deduct from them