OCR Output •CHAP. 37. ROMAN HISTORY. 255 CHAP. XXXVII. The Decemvirs introduce licentiousness, J. HEY then began to turn theiv eyes towards the Pa­tricians, to see if possibly they could discover any hopeof liberty from those, from whom they had before ap­prehended slavery, the dread of which had precipitatedthe commonwealth into this deplorable condition. Theprincipal senators detested the decemvirs, but did notlove the plebeians. They were far from approving ofthe present proceedings, but they thought the peopleonly met with their deserts. Wherefore, they were inno haste to relieve those, who, through a blind passionfor liberty, had plunged themselves into slavery; norwere they sorry to see their chains grow every day moreheavy, in hopes that a feeling of their miseries mightawaken in them a desire of the re-establishment -of con­suls, and the ancient form of government. The greater part of the year was already past, whentwo tables of laws were drawn up to be added to thetenth, as had been promulgated the year before: andthere now remained no pretext for continuing themselvesin the decemvirate, so that the ides of May were ex­pected with the utmost anxiety and impatience, whenan assembly should be held for the election of consuls. How the tribunitian power, the bulwark of Plebeianliberty, after the interruption it had met with, was tobe resumed, was matter of great speculation to the peo­ple. In the mean time, not a syllable was mentioned ofa new election, and the decemvirs, who at first had beenattended by the tribunes, more effectually to gain thepeople, were accompanied now by a band of young Pa­tricians, who appeared in their retinue as a guard, andconstantly surrounded their tribunals, harassing andplundering the people; insomuch, that whatever occur­red worth having, became the perquisite of the strongestarm. Nay, they did not spare the persons of the citi­zens; some were whipped with rods like slaves, whilstothers perished by the axe like criminals; and thatcruelty might not-go unrewarded, a confiscation of estate