OCR Output 482 DECLINE AND VALL [CHAP. XLVI. employ in the service of religion and of the empire. Theclergy themselves appear to have sympathized with thepublic distress, and the discreet patriarch of Alexandria,without admitting the precedent of sacrilege, assisted hissovereign by the miraculous or seasonable revelation ofa secret treasure.* Of the soldiers who had conspiredwith Phocas, only two were found to have survived thestroke of time and of the barbarians ;h the loss, even ofthese seditious veterans, was imperfectly supplied by thenew levies of Heraclius, and the gold of the sanctuaryunited in the same camp, the names, and arms, and lan­guages, of the east and west. He would have been con­tent with the neutrality of the Avars; and his friendlyentreaty that the chagan would act, not as the enemy butas the guardian of the empire, was accompanied with amore persuasive donative of two hundred thousand piecesof gold. Two days after the festival of Easter, the em­peror, exchanging his purple for the simple garb of apenitent and warrior,' gave the signal of his departure.To the faith of the people Heraclius recommended hischildren; the civil and military powers were vested in themost deserving hands, and the discretion of the patri­arch and senate was authorised to save or surrender thecity, if they should be oppressed in his absence by the su­perior forces of the enemy.dit7on"fPe" ^e neighbouring heights of Chalcedon were coveredHeraciins with tents and arms: but if the new levies of HeracliusPersians, * had been rashly led to the attack, the victory of the Per­sians in the sight of Constantinople might have been thelast day of the Roman empire. As imprudent would it B Baronius gravely relates this discovery, or rather transmutation, of harrels, notof honey, but of gold. (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 620. no. 3, &c.) Yet the loan was ar­hitrary, since it was collected by soldiers, who were ordered to leave the patriarchof Alexandria no more than one hundred pounds of gold. Nicephorus, (p. 11.) twohundred years afterward, speaks with ill humour of this contribution, which thechurch of Constantinoplo might still feel. J h Theophylact, Simocatta, lib. 8. c. 12. This circumstance need not excite onrsurprise. The moster-roll of a regiment, even in time of peace, is renewed in lessthan twenty or twenty-five years. 1 He changed his purple, for black buskins, and died them red in the blood of tbsPersians. (Georj. Pisid. Acroas. 3. 118. 12 J , 122. See the Notes of Foggini, p. 35.) A. D. 622.