OCR Output A. Oi, 1ACITUS. 18!/ , LXIII. Several other cities appeared by their de­puties; but the senate, weary of the number, and ofthe party-spirit, with which different places wereespoused, came to a resolution, to refer the wholeto the consuls, and wait their report on the merits ofeach distinctive case. The consuls went throughthe inquiry. Besides the temples already mentioned,they found at Pergamos the sanctuary of iEsculapius,. confirmed by authentic proof. The titles of otherplaces, being all deduced from ages too remote, werelost in the darkness of antiquity. In this numberwas the oracle of Apollo, by which it was pretended,that the people of Smyrna were commanded to builda temple to Venus Stratonice; and another of thesame god, directing a temple and a statue to Nep­tune, in the isle of Tenos. The Sardians, and thepeople of Miletus, were content with a more moderndate. The former relied on the privileges grantedby Alexander; and the latter, on the authority ofDarius. Diana was the tutelar deity in one of thosecities, and Apollo in the other. The statue of Au­gustus was held to be a sanctuary by the inhabitantsof Crete. Several decrees were passed, with due at­tention to the religious tenets of the people, yetlimiting the number of sanctuaries. These regula­tions were ordered to be engraved in brass, and fixedup in the respective temples, as lasting monuments,to ascertain the rights now established, and preventthe future claims of national pride, or Blind super­stition. LXIV. About this time a fit of illness threatenedthe life of Livia. Her danger was so alarming, thatit occasioned the emperor's return to Rome. Hithertothe mother and son had lived on terms of mutualregard, or, at worst, with hatred well disguised. Li­via, not long before, had raised a statue to Augustus,near1 the theatre of Marcellus. In the votive inscrip­tion her own name preceded that of the emperor. To.the jealous temper of Tiberius this was an offenceagainst the imperial dignity. His resentment, how­ever, was suppressed, and for that reason, was thoughtto haTe sunk the deeper. The senate proceeded!" 1