OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 485 fore shall they eat the fruits of their own ways? Thus whenJosephus says, as we have seen, that the most equitablecitizens of Jerusalem, and those that were most zealous ofthe law, were very uneasy at the condemnation of this Jamesand some of his friends or fellow Christians, by the high-priest and sanhedrim, about A. D. 62, and declares, that hohimself was one of those Jews who thought the terriblemiseries of that nation effects of the vengeance of God fortheir murder of this James, about A. D. 68, we may easilysee those opinions could only be the opinions of convertedJews or Ebionites. The high-priest and sanhedrim, whoalways prosecuted the Christians, and now condemned theseChristians, and the body of those unbelieving Jews, who aresupposed to suffer for murdering this James, the head of theNazarene or Ebionite Christians in Judea, could not, to besure, be of that opinion ; nor could Josephus himself be ofthe same opinion, as he declares he was, without the strongestinclinations to the Christian religion, or without beingsecretly a Christian Jew, i. e. a Nazarene or Ebionite ; whichthing is, by the way, a very great additional argument thatsuch he was, and no other. Thus, lastly, when Josephus iscited in Suidas as affirming that Jesus officiated with thepriests in the temple, this account is by no means disagreeableto the pretensions of the Ebionites. Hcgesippus affirms thevery same of James the Just also. VI. The first citation of the famous testimony concerningour Savior from Tacitus, almost all that was true of the Jewsis directly taken by him out of Josephus, as will be demon­strated under the third Dissertation hereafter. VII. The second author I have alleged for it is JustinMartyr, one so nearly coeval with Josephus, that he mightbe born about the time when he wrote his Antiquities, appealsto the same Antiquities by that very name: and though hedoes not here directly quote them, yet does he seem to me toallude to this very testimony in them concerning our Savior,when he affirms in this place to Trypho the Jew, That hisnation originally knew that Jesus teas risen from the dead, ' Is. Hi. 10. 41*