OCR Output ISTRIA. 73 ISTRIA. Adriatic, but should assert that its waters enteredthat sea with a turbulence and force similar to thoseof the Padua. (Mel. ii. 3. § 13, 4. § 4.) In pointof fact, there is no river of any magnitude flowinginto tfae upper part of the Adriatic on its easternshore which could afford even the slightest coun­tenance to such a notion; the rivers in the peninsulaof Istria itself are very trifling streams, and the dry,calcareous ridges which hem in the £. shore of theAdriatic, all the way from Trieste to the southernextremity of Dalmatia, do not admit either of thefHTostifjn or the outlet of any considerable body ofwater. It is scarcely possible to account for theorigin of such a fable; but if the inhabitants ofIstria were really called Istri ("Io-rpot), as theirnative name, which is at least highly probable, thiscircumstance may have first led the Greeks to assumetheir connection with the great river Ister, and theexistence of a considerable amount of traffic up thevalley of the Savus, and from thence by land acrossthe Julian Alps, or Mount Ocra, to the head of theAdriatic (Strab. vii. p. 314), would tend to perpe­tuate such a notion. The Istrians are generally considered as a tribe ofIlhrian race (AppUn, Illyr. 8; Strab. vii. p. 314;Zeoss, [He Deutachen, p. 253), and the fact that theywere immediately surrounded by other Illyrian tribesIs in itself a strong argument in favour of this view.Scymnus China alone calls them a Tbracian tribe,baton what authority we know not. (Scymn. Ch.398.) They first appear in history as taking partwith the other Illyrians in their piralical expeditions,and Livy ascribes to them this character as early asB-C 301 (Liv. x. 2); but the first occasion onwhich they are distinctly mentioned as joining inthen; enterprises is just before the Second PunicWar. They were, however, severely punished; theHuman consuls M. Minucius Rufus and P. Cornelius■"ere sent against them, and they were reduced tocomplete submission. (Etitrop. iii. 7; Oros. iv. 13;Zi«ar. viii. 20; Apptan, Illyr. 8.) The next men­tion of them occurs in b. c. 183, when the consulM. Claudius Marcellus, after a successful campaignaram^t the Omuls, asked and obtained permission toI«td his legions into Istria. (Liv. xxxix. 55.) Itdoes not, however, appear that this invasion pro-ducwl any considerable result; but their piraticalnpeditioas, together with the opposition offered bytlem to the foundation of the Roman colony ofAquileU, soon became the pretext of a fresh attack.(Id.xl. 18, 26, xli. 1.) In B. c. 178 the consulA. Manlius invaded Istria with two legions; andtlwuzh he at first sustained a disaster, and narrowlytvaped the capture of his camp, he recovered hisjr'Mti<m before the arrival of his colleague, M. Junius,*ho had b**cn sent to his support. The two consulstow attacked and defeated the Istrians; and theiriQfcessor, C. Claudius, following up this advantage,ta>k in succession the towns of Nesactium, Mutila,and Fiveria, and reduced the whole people to sub-ffiUsiuu. For this success he was rewarded with atriumph, b. c. 177. (Liv. xli. 1—5, 8—13; Flor.ii- 10.) The subjection of the Istrians on thiso*a>wn wema to have been real and complete; for,thtrugh a few years after we find them joining theCarni and lapydes in complaining of the exactions ofC. Cassius (Liv. iliii. 5), we hear of no subsequentitrolls. and the district appears to have continuedtranquil under the Roman yoke, until it was incor-I"*it«l by Augustus, together with Venelia and thehad of the Carni, as a portion of Italy. (Strab. v. p. 215; Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) It continued thence­forth to be always included under that name, thoughgeographically connected much more closely withDalmatia and IMyricum. Hence we find, in theNotitia Dignitatum, the "Consulates Venetiae etHistriae" placed under the jurisdiction of the VI-carius Italiae. (Not. Dign, ii. pp. 5, 65.) The natural limits of Istria are clearly marked bythose of the peninsula of which it consists, or by aline drawn across from the Gulf of Trieste to that ofQuarnero, near Fiume; but the political boundarywas fixed by Augustus, when he included Istria inItaly, at the river Arsia or Arsa, which falls intothe Gulf of Quamero about 15 miles from thesouthern extremity of the peninsula. This river hasits sources in the group of mountains of which thoMonte Maggiore forms the highest point, and whichconstitutes the heart or nucleus of the peninsula,from which there radiate ranges of great calcareoushills, gradually declining as they approach thewestern coast, so that the shore of Istria along theAdriatic, though hilly and rocky, is not of any con­siderable elevation, or picturesque in character. Butthe calcareous rocks of which it is composed aroindented by deep inlets, forming excellent harbours;of these, the beautiful land-locked basin of Pola isparticularly remarkable, and was noted in ancient aswell as modern times. The northern point of Istriawas fixed by Augustus at the river Formio, a smallstream falling into the Gulf of Trieste between that'city and Capo d"Istria. Pliny expressly excludesTergeste from Istria; but Ptolemy extends thelimits of that province so as to include both the riverFormio and Tergeste (Ptol. iii. 1. § 27); and Straboalso appears to consider the Timavus as constitutingthe boundary of Istria (Strab. v. p. 215), though heelsewhere calls Tergeste "a village of the Carni"(vii. p. 314). Pliny, however, repeatedly alludes tothe Formio as having constituted the boundary ofItaly before that name was officially extended so asto include Istria ateo, and there can be no doubt ofthe correctness of his statement. Istria is not acountry of any great natural fertility ; but its cal­careous rocky soil was well adapted for the growthof olives, and its oil was reckoned by Pliny inferioronly to that of Venafrum. (Plin. xv. 2. s. 8 ) Inthe later ages of the Roman empire, when the seatof government was fixed at Ravenna, Istria becameof increased importance, from its facility of com­munication by sea with that capital, and furnishedconsiderable quantities of corn, as well as wine andoil. (Cassiod. Varr. xii. 23, 24.) This was pro­bably the most flourishing period of its history. Itwas subsequently ravaged in succession by the Lom­bards, Avars, and Sclavi (P. Diac. iv. 25, 42), butappears to havo continued permanently subject tothe Lombard kingdom of Italy, until its destructionin a. d. 774. The towns in Istria mentioned by ancient writersare not numerous. Much the most important wasPola, near the extreme southern promontory of thepeninsula, which became a Roman colony underAugustus. Proceeding along the coast from Ter­geste to Pola, were A eg IDA (Capo dlstria),subsequently called Justinopolis, and Parentium(Parenzo)\ while on the E. coast, near the mouthof the river Arsia, was situated Nesactium, alreadynoticed by Livy among the towns of the independentIstrians. The two other towns, Mutila and Faveria,mentioned by him in the same passage (xli. 11). areotherwise unknown, and cannot be identified. Pto-