OCR Output 178 LIBYA. LIBYA. western chores of India, and the eastern shores ofAfrica. The extreme south point of the voyage isthe headland of Khapta, proluibly the modern Qtutoa,in laU 10° N. (Sec Vincent's Voyage ofNearchus,vol. ii. p. 7-4. sen;.) With their imperfect ac­quaintance with Lihya Interior, and their miscon­ception of its extent, it is not surprising that themore ancient geographers should have long Instatedto which portion of the old continent Libya shouldbe assigned. It was sometimes regarded as an in­dependent division of the earth, and sometimes aspart of Asia, and even of Europe. (Agathemer.ii.; Herod, iv. 42; Varr. L. L. iv. 5; Sail. Bell.Jngurth. 17; Lucan, Pharsat. ix. 411; Malte-brun, Geoff, i. 27.) As the topography of theinterior is very uncertain, we shall examine ratherthe general physical phenomena of this region, thanattempt to assign a local habitation to tribes whoroamed over the waste, or to towns of which thenames are doubtful and disguised, even whengenuine, by the Greek or Roman orthography oftheir Libyan titles. I. The Great Desert. — Herodotus (ii. 32, iv.181) divides Libya N. of the equator into three re­gions:— (1) The inhabited, which is described underthe several heads <>f Africa, Atlas, CakthA(;f.,Cvuksk,&c. ; (2) the wildbeastterritory [Atlas];and (:t) the Desert. These divisions correspond nearlyto the modern districts of Barbary, BUedulgeri/i,and SahSra. The latter region {6(f>pvrj ^dtaitTjv.Herod, iv. 181) extends from the Atlantic to Aegypt,and is continued under the same degrees of latitudethrough Arabia, A.«ia, the southern provinces of1'ersia, to Moultan in Northern India. Contrastedwith the vale of Bitedulyerid, the rich arable districtsof Africa Propria, and especially with the well-watered Aegypt, the Sahara is one of the mostdreary and inhospitable portions of the world. Toits real barrenness and solitude the ancients ascribedalso many fabulous terrors, which the researches ofmodern travellers have dispersed. It was believedto swarm with serpents, which, by their number andtheir venom, were able to impede armies in theirinarch (Lucan, Pharsal. ix. 765): its tribesshrieked like bats, instead of uttering articulatesounds (Herod, iv. 183); its pestilential windsstruck with instant death men and animals, whotraversed them (Arrian, Exp. Alex. iii. 3); and itseddies of sand buried the slain. These descriptionsare, however, much exaggerated. The Khamsinor fifty-days' gale, as the Copts term it, the Simovm{semen, poison) of the Arabs, blows at the summersolstice from S. and SE. over a surface scorched byan almost vertical sun, ami thus accumulates heat, iwhich dries up all moisture, relaxes the muscular ipowers, and renders respiration difficult. But though!it enfeebles, it does not necessarily kill. The real'peril of the route, which from very remote ages haslieen trodden by the caravans, lies in the scantysupply of water, and in the obliteration of the trackby the whirlwinds of sand. (Bruce, Travels, vol. vi.p. 458; Burckhardt, A*«Un, vol. i. p. 207.) Thedifficulty of passing the Libyan Desert was, in fact,diminished by the islands or oases, which servedas stepping-stones across it Of these oases a moreparticular description is given elsewhere [Oasis],but they are too important a feature of this regionto be quite omitted from an account of it. He-rodotns (iv. 181) mentions a chain of these patchesof verdure extending from E. to \V. through Libya.Sometimes they are little more than halting- places for the caravans,—a spring of water, sur­rounded by date-trees and a few acres of brrbs^r:others, like the oasis of El~Khnrgrhy are s}*>.«and populous tracts, over which nomad hordeswander with their cattle, and a few form eiitireprovinces and kingdoms, such as Augila and Ftatm(Regio Phazania of Ptolemy). One geoli*rkal fea­ture is common to them all. They are not elevationof the plain, but depressions of its limestone bi».Into these hollows, which are composed of liirte?tiL,eand clay, the subsoil water percolates, the periodicalrains are received, and a rich and varied vegetscwosprings from the strong and moist earth of the ai-i*.But even the arid waste itself is not a uniform lev* I.It has considerable inequalities, and even hill* ttfgravel. Probably amid the changes which our globehas undergone, at some period anterior to the history,if not the existence of man, the S'Juira, whose leurleven now in not much above that of the Mediter­ranean, was the bed of an ocean running alhwir.the continent. Its irregular breadth and o-atlir*favour this supposition. It is widest in the we»:enihalf of N. Africa, between the present kingdom ofMorocco and the negro country, and narrowest be­tween the present states of Tripoli and Khassima,where it is broken up by watery districts. As it ap­proaches Aegypt it becomes again broader. Libyais, indeed, a land of terraces, ascending graduallyfrom the three seas which bound it to central plate*as,such as the Abyssinian highlands, the Lonae Monies,and the Atlas chain. Before the importation of the camel from Arar-ia— and this animal never appears in monument* «.fthe Phanionic times—the impediments to Urg- com­panies crossing the Sahara must have been almostinsurmountable. The camel was introduced by thePersians: Darius succeeded in establishing his gar­risons in the oases; and in the time of llerudctosthey were the stages of a traffic which penetratedLibya nearly from east to west. The Desert. l»>*-ever, was not only a road for commerce, bat itselfalso productive. It exported dates, slam, andmineral salts, which, especially in the district be­tween El-Siwal; the ancient Ammonium, and theXatron lakes, cover the soil with an incruMati nthrough which the foot of the camel brak* a*through a thin coat of ice. The salt was a market­able article with the inhabitants of Nigritia, S. of theSahara. The components of the salt are mnrial**,carbonate, and sulphate of soda; and these, both mancient and modern times, have been extrosi\e>employed in the operations of bleaching a:*d gU&s-making. Libya shows few, if any, traces of Tnkraxucaction ; and earthquakes, except in Aegypt. appearto have been unknown. Yet, that the comment banundergone changes unrecorded in history, is naaiirs;from the agatised wood found on the eastern extre­mity of the desert in the latitude of Cairo. TheBahr-bcta-.yfa, or river without water, is ajMrtberproof of a change in the elevation of N. Africa.The streams, which once filled its dry hollow<, U*»»been violently expelled by subterranean action, andthe silex, agate, and jasper in its neighbuwrhendindicate the agency of fire, (Newbold, 600*09. ofAegypt, Proceed of Geolog. Society, IMS.) It is still an unsettled question whether thmancient geographers were acquainted with the twintries 8. of the tireat Desert; Le. with the upprrpart of the river Quorra. commonly called the SfrrHerodotus (ii. 32) relates, on the authority «f «c«u»Cy remans, that certain young men of the tube U