OCR Output . XX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 433 they neglect the care of other parts of the country, but Josephthe son of Simon, was sent as a general to Jericho, as was Ma-nasseh to Perea, and John, the Essene, to the toparchyof Thama-na; Lydda was also added to his portion, and Joppa, and Em-maus. But John, the son of Matthias, was made governor ofthe toparchies of Gophnitica, and Acrabattene, as was Josephus,the son of Matthia-s of both the Galilees. Gamala also, whichwas the strongest city in those parts, was put under his com-mand. 5. So every one of the other commanders administered the af­fairs of his portion with that alacrity and prudence they weremasters of; but as to Josephus, when he came into'Galilee, hisfirst care was to gain the good-will of the people of that country,as sensible that he should thereby have in general good success,although he should fail in other points. And being concious tohimself that if he communicated part of his power to the greatmen, he should make them his fast friends; and that he shouldgain the same favour from the multitude, if he executed hiscommands by persons of their own country, and with whomthey were well acquainted; he chose out * seventy of the mostprudent men, and those elders in age, and appointed them to berulers of all Galilee, as he chose seven judges in every city tohear the lesser quarrels; for as to the greater causes, and thosewherein life and death were concerned, he enjoined they shouldbe brought to him, and the seventy elders. 6. Josephus also, when he had settled these rulesfor determin­ing causes by the law, with regard to the people's dealings onewith another, betook himself to make provisions for their safety against * We §ee here, and in Josephus's account of his own life, § 14. Vol' HI. how ex­actly he imitated his legislator Moses, or perhaps only obeyed wh»t he took to beTiis perpetual law, in appointing seven lesser judges, for smaller causes, in particu­lar cities, and peihapsfor the first hearing of greater causes, with the liberty of anappeal to seventy-one supreme judges, especially in those causes where life anddeath were concerned; as Antiq. B. IV. ch. viii. § 14. Vol. 1. and of his life, §14. See also Of the War, B. IV. ch. v. § 4. Vol. IV. Moreover we find, § 7.that he imitated Moses, as well as the Romans, in the number and distribution ofthe subaltern officers of his army, as Exod. xviii. 25. Deut. i. 15. and in his chargeagainst the offences common among soldiers, as Deut. xxiii' 6. in all which heshewed his great wisdom, and piety, and skilful conduct in martial affairs. Yetmay we discern in his very high character of Ananus the high-priest, B. IV. ch. v.§ a. who seems to have been the same who conducted St James, Bishop of Jerusa>-Jem, to be stoned, under Albinus the procurator, ttiat when he wrote these book*of the War, he was not so much as an Ebionite Christian; otherwise he wouldnot have failed, according to his usual cnstom, to have reckoned this his barbarousmurder, as a just punishment upon him for that his cruelty to the chief, or rather,only Christian bishop of the circumcision. Nor, had he been then a Christian,could he immediately have spoken so movirgly of the causes of the destruction ofJerusalem, without one word of either jhe condemnation of James, or c.of Ohrist, as he did when he was become a Christian afterward. VOL, III. 3 I