OCR Output 40 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. honourable wounds, atonement would then be made.Germanicus embraced the opportunity; and throwinga bridge over the river, advanced with an army oftwelve thousand legionary soldiers, six-and-twentycohorts of the allies, and eight squadrons of horse;all free from disaffection, and during the late commo­tions strict observers of discipline. , L. The Germans, posted at a small distance, ex­ulted in full security. They saw with pleasure thecessation of arms, occasioned by the death of Augus­tus; and the revolt of the legions inspired them withfresh courage. The Romans, by a forced march,passed the Csesian forest; and having levelled part ofthe rampart formerly begun by Tiberius, pitched theirtents on the spot. In the front and rear of the camp,they threw up intrenchments. The flanks were for­tified with a pile of trees, hewn down for the pur­pose. Their way from that place lay through agloomy forest: but of two roads, which was most eli­gible, was matter of doubt; 'whether the shortest andmost frequented, or another more difficult, and sel­dom attempted, but for that,reason unsuspected bythe enemy. The longest road was preferred. Thearmy pushed on with vigour. The scouts had broughtintelligence that the approaehing night was a festival,to be celebrated by the barbarians with joy and re­velry. In consequence of this information, Csecinahad orders to advance with the light cohorts, andclear a passage through the woods. The legions fol­lowed at a moderate distance. The brightness ofthe night favoured their design. They arrived, withrapid expedition, at the villages of the Marsians, andwithout delay formed a chain of posts, to inclose theenemy on every side. The barbarians were sunk insleep and wine, some stretched on the beds, others atfull length under the tables; all in full security, with­out a guard, without posts, and without a sentinel onduty. No appearance of war was seen; nor couldthat be called a peace, which was only the effect ofsavage riot, the languor of a debauch. LI. Germanicus, to spread the slaughter as wideas possible, divided his men into four battalions. The