OCR Output S82 MARSI. MAESYABAF- •11 sides by lofty, or strongly marked mountainridges, may be considered as constituting the naturallimits of their territory. But towards the NE. wcfind that Alba Fucensis, though certainly belongingto this natural district, and hence sometimes de­scribed as belonging to the Marsi (I'tol. iii. 1. § 57;Sil. ltal. viii. 507). was more properly an Aequiancity [ Ai.ba Fickssis] ; while, on the other band.theupper valley of the Liris (though separated fromthe lake by an intervening mountain ridge) wasincluded in the Marsic territory, as Antinnm (CivitadA ntino) was unquestionably a Marsian city. [ A n-tiniim] On the N. the Marsi were separated fromthe Sabine* and Yestini by the lofty group of theMonte Velino and its neighbours; while on the S.another mountain group, of almost equal elevation,separated them from the northern valleys of Sam-nium and the sources of the Sagrus (Saitoro). Onthe K.. a ridge of very inferior height, but forming astrongly marked liarrier, divided them from the IVligni, who occupied the valley of the Giao, a tribu­tary of the Atemus. From its great elevation abovethe sea (2176 feet at the level of the lake), evenmorn than from the mountains which surrounded it,the land of the Marsi had a cold and ungenial climate,and was ill adapted for the growth of corn, but pro­duced abundance of fruit, as well as wine, thoughthe latter was considered harsh and of inferior qua­lity. (Sil. Ital. viii. 507; Allien, i. p. 26; Martial,xiii. 121, xiv. 11G.) The principal town of the Marsi was MAimr/-vll'M, the ruins of which are still visible at S. Bene­detto, on the K. shore of the lake Fucinus. Thiswas indeed (if Alba Fucensis be excluded) probablytho only place within their territory which deservedthe name of a city. The others, as we are told bySilius Italicus, though numerous, were for tho mostpart obscure places, rather fortified villages (castella)than towns. (Sil. Ital. viii. 510.) To this classbelonged, in all probability, the three places mentionedby Livy (x. 3) as having been taken in n. c. 301by the dictator M. Valerius Maxitnus,—Milionia,l'lestina, and Fresiiia ; all three names are other­wise wholly unknown, and there is no clue to theiraite. Winy, however, assigns to the Marsi the fol-lowing towns :—Ahxantia (Anxantini), the nameof which is found also (wri'ten AjtXATtNi) in aninscription, and must have b*en situated near An-drmmno or Scunjola, in the immediate neighbour­hood of Alba (Hoare's CUutical Tour, vol. i. p. 367;Mommsen, Inter. It Ar. 5028); Antini'M (Anti-nates), now Ciriln J'A ntino; I.rct's (I.ucenses),more properly I.iris Axoitiae, still called Lugo,on the W. bank of the lake ; and a " populns" orcommunity, which lie terms Fucenses, who evidentlyderived their name from the lake; but what part ofits shores they inhabited is uncertain. Besidesthese he notices a tradition, mentioned also by Soli-nus, that a town named Archippe, fonnded by themythical Marsy3s, had been swallowed up in thewaters of the lake. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17; Solin. 2.§ 6.) From the number of inscriptions found atTratacco, a village near the S. end of the lake, itwould apjear to liave been certainly an ancient site;bat its name is unknown. (Mommsen, /, c. p. 295.)The only town of the Marsi mentioned by Ptolemy(iii. 1. § 57) besides Alba Fucensis, is a place whichhe calls Aex (Af{), a name in all probability cor­rupt, for which we sli"iild perhaps read "Af(a,the Anxatia or Anxantia of Pliny. CKttrKXjctA,a. place known only from the Itineraries, was situated I on the Via Valeria, at the foot of the pas* Indira;over the Mons Imeus into the valley of tbe I'rli-m.This remarkable pass, now called the ForcadiCanur.,must in all agea have formed the principal line Ucommunication between the Marsi and their easternneighbours, the Peligni and MamirinL Anothernatural line of communication ltd from tbe basin ofthe Fucinus near Celano to the valley of tbe Aur-nus near Aquila. It must be this line which wasfollowed by a route obscurely given in the Ta­bula as leading from Aveia through a place calledF'rusteniae (?) to Alba and Marruvinna (Tat.Pent.). [E. H. B.] MARSIGNI, a German tribe, mentioned only byTacitus (Germ. 43), probably occupying the northof Bohemia, about tbe Vpper Elbe. In languageand manners they belonged to the Suevi. (L'ump.Zeuas, Z>ie Deutsche*, p. 124.) [L-*i] MARSO'NIA (MofwoWa), or MAKSi/XICM(Tab. Petit), a place in Upper Pannonia, south of tberiver Savus.ou the road between Siscia and Servitiun;is identified by some with the town of Juenoriz, at themouth of tho Inna into the Sarc. (i'tol. u 16. $7; Geogr. Rav. iv. 19.) [L^] MARSYABAE (Mopo-KufaQ. a town of the Kha-manitae, an Arabian tribe, mentioned by Strain asthe utmost limit of the Human expedition underAelins Gallus, the siege of which be was obliged toabandon after six days for want of water, and tocommence his retreat. The only direct clue affordedby Strabo to the position of the town is that it wastwo days distant from the Frankincense country:but tbe interest attaching to this expedition—whirspromises so much for the elucidation of the classicalgeography of Arabia, but has hitherto served uaiystill further to perplex it—demands an investiga­tion of its site in connection with the other placetnamed in the only two remaining vemona of tbenarrative. It will be convenient to consider,—( L ) thetexts of the classical authors. (II.) Tbe coenmm-tarics and glosses of modern writers on tbe soKjtct.(III). To offer such remarks as may serve either V>reconcile and harmonise conflicting views, or to in­dicate a more satisfactory result than has hithertobeen arrived at In order to study brevity, tinconclusions only will be stated; the arguments onwhich they are supported must be sought in tbewritings referred to. I. To commence with StraUi,a personal friend of tlie Roman general who com­manded the expedition, and whose account, scantyand unsatisfactory as it is, has all the authority eifa personal narrative, in which, however, it will Ikadvisable to omit all incidents but such as dim-tlybear on the geography. [Mctimary of Mayrapkj.Gai.i.is, Aelii'8.] After a voyage of 15 days fraenCleopatris fARSisoK, No. 1], the expedition arrivedat Leuce Come (Atvrb *unv), a considerable srawport in the country of tbe Nabathaeans, under whotetreacherous escort Gallus bad placed his armammtAn epidemic among the troops obliged hint tn pes*the summer and winter at this place. Setting outagain in the spring, they traversed for many days abarren tract, through which they had to carry tbeitwater on camels. This brought them to tbe terri­tory of Aretas, a kinsman of Obodas, tbe chivf »tmkaof the Nabathaei at the time. They took thirtydays to pass through this territory, owing to theobstructions placed in their way by tbfir guide Syt-laeua. It produced spelt and a few pahns. Theynext came to the nomad country named Araresss('Apoprn»^), under a sheikh named Sabos. Tun c