OCR Output 500 DISSERTATION II. passage, he says, that " Isaac was fully persuaded of whatho knew was to come;" and, therefore, " cheerfully yieldedhimself up for a sacrifice." Nor, indeed, does that name ofthis place, Jehovah Jireh, which continued till the days ofMoses, and signified, God will see, or, rather, God will pro­vide, seem to be given it by Abraham on any other account,than that God would there, in the fulness of time, "providehimself a lamb [that lamb of God, which was to take awaythe sins of the world]1 for a burnt-offering." But if, now after all, it be objected, that how peculiar andhow typical soever the circumstances of Abraham and Isaacmight be in themselves, of which the heathens about themcould have little notion, yet such a divine command to Abra­ham for slaying his beloved son Isaac must, however, be ofvery ill example to the Gentile world, and that it probablydid cither first occasion, or, at least, greatly encourage theirwicked practices, in offering their children for sacrifices totheir idols, I answer by the next consideration. 18. That this objection is so far from truth, that God'spublic and miraculous prohibition of the execution of thiscommand to Abraham, (which command itself the Gentileswould not then at all be surprised at, because it was so liketo their own usual practices), as well as God's substitutionof a vicarious oblation, seems to have been the very occasionof the immediate oblation of those impious sacrifices byTethmosis, or Amosis, among the neighboring Egyptians,and of the substitution of more inoffensive ones there insteadof them. Take the account of this abolition, which we shallpresently prove, was about the time of Abraham's offeringup his son Isaac, as it is preserved by Porphyry, fromManetho, the famous Egyptian historian and chronologer,which is also cited from Porphyry by Eusebius and Theodorit.—"Amosis,"2 says Porphyry, "abolished the law for slay­ing of men in IIeliopolis of Egypt, as Manetho bears wit­ness, in his book of Antiquity and Piety. They were sacri­ficed to Juno, and were examined, as were the pure calves, 'John, i. 29. » Marsh, p. 301.