OCR Output 3©2 THE DECLINE AND FALL In their rear, which were more feebly or less carefully guarded; andwith incredible diligence, but by a different road, returned towardsthe mountains of Italy '*. Aurelian, who considered the war astotally extinguished, received the mortifying intelligence of theescape of the Alemanni, and of the ravage which they already-committed in the territory of Milan. The legions were com­manded to follow with as much expedition as those heavy bodieswere capable of exerting, the rapid flight of an enemy, whose in­fantry and cavalry moved with almost-equal swiftness. A few daysafterwards the emperor himself marched to the relief of Italy, atthe head of a chosen body of auxiliaries (among whom were thehostages and cavalry of the Vandals), and of all the Prætorian guardswho had served in the wars on the Danube*t»d are at last As the light troops of the Alemanni had spread themselves fromaSm? y the Alps to the Apennine, the incessant vigilance of Aurelian andhis officers was exercised in the discovery, the attack, and the pursuitof their numerous detachments. Notwithstanding this desultorywar, three considerable battles are mentioned, in which the principalforce of both armies was obstinately engaged '*. The success wasvarious. In the first, fought near Placentia, the Romans receivedso severe a blow, that, according to the expression of a writer ex­tremely partial to Aurelian, the immediate dissolution of the empirewas apprehended 5S. The crafty barbarians, who had lined thewoods, suddenly attacked the legions in'the dusk of the evening,and, as it is most probable, after the fatigue and disorder of a longmarch. The fury of their charge was irresistible; but at length,aster a dreadful slaughter, the patient firmness of the emperor ralliedhis troops, and restored, in some degree, the honour of his arms.The second battle was fought near Fano in Umbria; on the spotwhich, five hundred years before, had been fatal to the brother ofHannibal '6. Thus far the successful Germans had advanced along-the Æmilian and Flaminian way, with a design of sacking the un- .8 guarded