OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. 269 . BOOK XXI. from the bank of the Rhone the consul Pnblius Cor­nelius had come with his forces in order of battleto the camp of the enemy, intending to fight themwithout delay. But finding the fortifications aban­doned, and concluding that, as they had got the startof him so far, it would be difficult to overtake them, heinarched back to the sea, where his ships lay ; for hejudged that he might thus with greater ease and safetymeet Hannibal on his descent from the Alps. How­ever, not to leave Spain, the province which the lotshad assigned to his care, destitute of the aid of Ro­man troops, he sent his brother Cneius Scipio withthe greater part of his forces against Hasdrubal, withthe expectation not merely of protecting old allies, andacquiring new, but of driving him out of Spain. Hehimself, with a very small force, repaired to Genoa,proposing, with the army which was stationed on thePo, to provide for the security of Italy. From theDruentia, Hannibal, passing through a tract in generallevel, without any molestation from the Gauls inha­biting those regions, arrived at the Alps. And now,notwithstanding that the men had already conceived'notions of the scene from report, which, in cases capa­ble of misrepresentation, generally goes beyond thetruth, yet the present view exhibited such objects asrenewed all their terrors ; the height of the mountains,the snows almost touching the sky, the wretched hutsstanding on the cliffs, the cattle and beasts shivering withthe cold, the people squalid and in uncouth dress, allthings, in short, animate and inanimate, stiffened withfrost, besides other circumstances more shocking tothe sight than can be represented in words. As theymarched up the first acclivities, they beheld the emirnences which hung over them covered with parties ofthe mountaineers, who, if they had posted themselvesin the valleys out of view, and, rushing out suddenly,had made an unexpected attack, must have occasionedthe most terrible havoc and dismay. Hannibal com­manded the troops to halt, and having discovered fromsome Gauls whom he sent forward to examine the