OCR Output 372 Book II. WARS OF THE JEWS. man to him. But when Caesar saw him, he immediately dis­cerned a difference in his countenance, and when he had discover­ed that his whole body was of a more robust texture, and likethat of a slave, he understood the whole was a contrivance. Butthe impudence of what hesaid greatly provoked him to be angry'at him; for when he was asked about Aristobulus, he said, That** he was also preserved alive, and was left on purpose in Cy-*' prus, for fear of treachery, because it would be harder for*' plotters to get them both into their power while they were' separate." Then did Caesar take him by himself privately,arid said tp him.," I will give thee thy life, if thou wilt discoverf* who it was that persuaded thee to forge such stories." So hesaid, that he would discover him, and followed Caesar, and point­ed to that Jew who abused the resemblance of his face to getmoney; for that he had received more presents in every citythan ever Alexander did when he was alive. Caesar laughedat the contrivance, and put this spurious Alexander among hisrowers, on account of the strength of his body, but ordered himthat persuaded him to be put to death. But for the people ofMelos, they had been sufficiently punished for their folly, bythe expences they had been at on his account. 3. And now Archelaus took possession of his ethnarchy, andused not the Jews only, but the Samaritans also, barbarously;and this out of his resentment of their old quarrels with him.Whereupon they both of them sent ambassadors against him toCaesar, and in the ninth year of his government he was banishedto Vienna, a city of Gaul, and his effects were put into Caesar'streasury. But the report goes, that before he was sent for byCaesar, he seemed to see nine ears of corn, full and large, but de­voured by oxen. When, therefore, he had sent for the diviners,and some of the Chaldeans, and inquired of them what theythought it portended, and when one of them had one interpreta­tion, and another had another, Simon, one of the sect of the EsTsens, said, That t he thought the ears of corn denoted years, and" the oxen denoted a mutation of- things, because by their" ploughing they made an alteration of the country. Thatf* therefore he should feign as many years as there were ears of*' corn, and after he had passed through various alterations off* fortune, should die.1' Now five days after Archelaus hadheard this interpretation, he was called to his trial. 4. I cannot also but think it worthy to be recorded, whatdream Glaphyra, the daughter of Archelaus, king of Cappado-cia, had, who had at first been wife to Alexander, who was thebrother of Archelaus, concerning whom we have been discoursing.This Alexander was the son of Herod the king, by whom he