OCR Output 186 THE TEMPLE. [B. V. on an inner garment of linen, together with a blue garmentround without seam, with fringe-work, and reaching to thefeet. There were also golden bells that hung upon thefringes, and pomegranates intermixed among them. Thebells signified thunder, and the pomegranates lightning.But that girdle that tied the garment to the breast wasembroidered with five rows of various colors of gold, andpurple, and scarlet, as also of fine linen and blue, with whichcolors we told you before the veils of the temple were em­broidered also. The like embroidery was upon the ephod;but the quantity of gold therein was greater. Its figure wasthat of a stomacher for the breast. There were upon it twogolden buttons like small shields, which buttoned the ephodto the garment: in these buttons were enclosed two verylarge and very excellent sardonyxes, having the names ofthe tribes of that nation engraved upon them : on the otherpart there hung twelve stones, three in a row one way, andfour in the other; a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald; a car­buncle, a jasper, and a sapphire; an agate, an amethyst, anda ligure; an onyx, a beryl, and a chrysolite; upon every onoof which was again engraved one of the forementioned namesof the tribes. A mitre also of fine linen encompassed hishead, which was tied by a blue riband, about which there wasanother golden crown, in which was engraven the sacredname [of God:] it consists of four vowels. However, thehigh-priest did not wear these garments at other times, buta more plain habit; he only did it when he went into themost sacred part of the temple, which he did but once in ayear, on that day when our custom is for all of us to keep afast to God. And thus much concerning the city and thetemple; but for the customs and laws hereto relating, weshall speak more accurately another time; for there remaina great many things thereto relating, which have not beenhere touched upon. 8. Now, as to the tower of Antonia, it was situated at thecorner of two cloisters of the court of the temple, of that onthe west and that on the north; it was erected upon a rockof fifty cubits in height, and was on a great precipice : it wasthe work of king Herod, wherein he demonstrated his