OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 17.'» born men, and the younger sort were obliged to enlist,but cohorts were formed of the elder citizens, and thesons of freedmen were incorporated in the centuries.Plans were formed for the defence of the city, and thechief command committed to the pretor, Publius Sem-pronius. However, the senate was exonerated of onehalf of their anxiety, by a letter from the consul, Lu­cius Volumnius, informing them that the army, whichhad ravaged Campania, had been defeated and dis­persed : whereon they decreed a public thanksgivingfor this success, in the name of the victors. The courtswere opened, after having been shut eighteen days, andthe thanksgiving was performed with much joy. Theythen turned their thoughts to devising measures for thefuture security of the country depopulated by the Sam-nites; and, with this view, resolved that two coloniesshould be settled on the frontiers of the Vescian andFalernian territories; one at the mouth of the riverLiris, which has received the name of Minturnae; theother in the Vescian forest, which borders on the Fa­lernian territory; where, it is said, stood Sinope, acity of Grecians, called thenceforth by the Roman colo­nists Sinuessa. The plebeian tribunes were chargedto procure an order of the commons, enjoining PubliusSempronius, the pretor, to create triumvirs for con­ducting the colonies to those places. But it was noteasy to find people to give in their names; because asettlement in those places was considered, nearly, as aperpetual advanced guard in a hostile country, not asa provision of land. From these employments the at­tention of the senate was drawn away by the Etrurianwar growing daily more formidable; and by frequentletters from AppiUs, warning them not to neglect thedisturbances in that quarter. Four nations, he told them,were uniting their arms; the Etrurians, the Samnites,the Umbrians, and the Gauls; and they had alreadyformed two separate camps, one spot being insufficientto contain so great a multitude. In consequence, thetime of the elections drawing nigh, the consul, LuciusVolumnitis, was recalled to Rome to hold them. Hav­