OCR Output 270 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. sand of the Jews, armed men: He had also taken care the princi­pal men of the Arabians should come to his assistance; and onhis account it was that all the Syrians assisted him also, asnot willing to appear behind hand in their alacrity for Caesar, viz.Jamblicus the ruler, and Ptolemy his son, and Thoiomy the sonof Sohemus, who dwelt at mount Libanus, and almost all thecities. So Mithridates marched out of Syria, and came to Pe-lusium; and when its inhabitants would not admit him, he be­sieged the city. Now Antipater signalized himself here, and wasthe first who plucked down a part of the wall, and so opened away to the rest, whereby they might enter the city, and by thismeans Pelusium was taken: but it happened that the Egyp­tian Jews, who dwelt in the country called Onion, would not letAntipater and Mithridates, with their soldiers, pass to Caesar, butAntipater persuaded them to come over to their party, becausehe was of the same people with them, and that chiefly by show­ing them the epistles of Hyrcanus the high priest, wherein heexhorted them to cultivate friendship with Caesar, and to sup­ply his army with money, and all sorts of provisions which theywanted: and accordingly, when they saw Antipater and the highpriest of the same sentiments, they did as they were desired.And when the Jews about Memphis heard that these Jews werecome over to Caesar, they also invited Mithridates to come tothem; so he came and received them also into his army. 2. And when Mithridates had gone over all Delta, as theplace is called, he came to a pitched battle with the enemy, nearthe place called the Jewish camp. Now Mithridates had theright wing, and Antipater the left; and when it came to a fightthat wing where Mithridates was gave way, and was likely tosuffer extremely, unless Antipater had come running to himwith his own soldiers along the shore, when he had alreadybeaten the enemy that opposed him: so he delivered Mithri­dates, and put those Egyptians, who had been too hard for him, toflight. He also took their camp, and continued in the pursuitof them. He also recalled Mithridates, who had been worsted,and was retired a great way off; of whose soldiers eight hundredfell, but of Antipater's fifty. So Mithridates sent an account ofthis battle to Caesar, and openly declared, that Antipater was theauthor of his victory, and of his own preservation, insomuchthat Caesar commended Antipater then, and made use-of him allthe rest of that war in the most hazardous undertakings, he hap­pened also to be wounded in one of those engagements. 3. However, when Caesar, after some time, had finished thatwar, and was sailed away for Syria, he honoured Antipatergreatly, and confirmed Hyrcanus in the high priesthood; andbestowed on Antipater the privilege of a citizen of Rome, and*