OCR Output 494 ROMAN EMPIRE. tified. Our imagination is dazzled by the splendid pic­ture; and whatever may be the cool dictates of reason,there are few among us who would obstinately refuse atrial of the comforts and the cares of royalty. It maytherefore be of some use to borrow the experience of thesame Abdalrahman, whose magnificence has perhaps ex­cited our admiration and envy, and to transcribe an au­thentic memorial which was found in the closet of thedeceased caliph. I have now reigned above fifty years invictory or peace; beloved by my subjects, dreaded by myenemies, and respected by my allies. Riches and honours,power and pleasure, have waited on my call, nor does anyearthly blessing appear to have been wanting to my feli­city. In this situation I have diligently numbered thedays of pure and genuine happiness which have fallen tomy lot: they amount to fourteen :—O man! place not thyconfidence in this present world /d The luxury of the ca­liphs, so useless to their private happiness, relaxed thenerves, and terminated the progress, of the Arabian em­pire. Temporal and spiritual conquest had been thesole occupation of the first successors of Mahomet; andafter supplying themselves with the necessaries of life,the whole revenue was scrupulously devoted to that sa­lutary work. The Abbassides were impoverished by themultitude of their wants, and their contempt of economy.Instead of pursuing the great object of ambition, theirleisure, their affections, the powers of their mind, werediverted by pomp and pleasure; the rewards of valourwere embezzled by women and eunuchs, and the royalcamp was encumbered by the luxury of the palace. Asimilar temper was diffused among the subjects of thecaliph. Their stern enthusiasm was softened by time •' Cardonne, torn. 1. p. 329, 330. This confession, the complaints of Solomon ofthe vanity of this world (read Prior's verbose but eloquent poem), and the happyten days of the emperor Seghed, (Rambler, no. 204, 205.) will be triumphantlyquoted by the detractors of human life. Their expectations are commonly immo­derate ; their estimates are seldom impartial. If I may speak of myself (the onlyperson of whom I can speak with certainty), my happy hours have far exceeded,and far exceed, the scanty numbers of the caliph of Spam; and I shall not scrupleto add, that many of them are due to the pleasing labour of the present composition.