OCR Output THE HISTORY B o o K tians: wherefore, after having, by reciprocal em-. - '-_i baffles, ratified their engagements with an oath, theyY.R. 353. advanced with their forces to Veii, at a momentB.C. 399. W}K11 no one thought of their coming. They hap­pened to attack the camp on that quarter, whereManius Sergius, military tribune, commanded, andthey caufed a violent alarm; for the Romans ima­gined that all Etruria had been fet in motion, andhad come out in a mafs againft them. The fameopinion roufed to action the Veientians in the city.Thus the camp was attacked on both fides; and thetroops, in oppofing the attempts of the enemy, be­ing obliged to wheel round their battalions from onefide to another, could neither effectually confine theVeientians within their fortifications, nor repel theafiauh from their own works, and defend themfelvessgair.ft the enemy, on the outer fide. Their onlyhope was, that they might be reinforced _from thegreater camp, and then the feveral different legionswould fupport the different parts of the fight, Tomecgainft the Capenatians and Falifcians, others againftthe fallies from the town. But that camp was com­manded by Virginius, between whom and Sergiusfubfifted a mutual perfonal hatred: on being inform­ed that moft of the forts were attacked, the fortifi­cations fcaled, and that the enemy poured in on bothfides, he kept his men within his own camp, underarms, faying, that if there were need of a reinforce­ment, his colleague would fend to him. His arro­gance was equalled by the obftinacy of the other,who, fooner than he fhould appear to have afked anyaffifb.n.ce from a perfon with whom he was at enmi­ty, chofe to be conquered by the enemy, rather thanto conquer by the help of his countryman. Histroops, inclofcd on,either fide, fuffered great flaugh-ter for a long time; at laft, abandoning the works, avery fVnall part of them made their way to the prin­cipal camp; the greater number, with Sergius him-• felfj proceeded to Rome; here, as he threw the , entire