OCR Output 410 , . TITUS LIV1US'- BOOK V. had forgot, it was nbt in the shade, nor under the roof,that their ancestors had established the tribunitianpower. These are sentiments worthy your soldiers,worthy of the Roman name: not to have a view onlvto the siege of Veii, nor to the war we are carryingonat present, but to regard the establishment of our repu­tation, for other wars, and other enemies, in time tocome. Do you think that a judgment will not beformed of us from our behaviour on this occasion? Andthat it is a matter of indifference, whether the neigh­bouring nations have reason to conclude, that if a citycan only sustain the first ardour of the Romans, whichis of no long duration, there would be nothing more tofear? Will it not establish the terror of the Romanname, when it is remarked, that neither the long con­tinuance of a tedious siege, nor the rigours of winter,can induce a Roman army to give up a place theyhave once invested ; that they have not yet learned toput an end to a v7ar, in any other way, than by vic­tory ; and that they value themselves as much upontheir perseverance, as their impetuosity, in their at­tacks.? Perseverance is necessary in every kind of warwhatever, but in sieges indispensably so ; because mostcities are rendered impregnable by fortifications andtheir natural situation, they require time, and to be inwant of the necessaries of life, to compel them to asurrender. This will be the case with Veii, if the tri­bunes of the people go not over to the side of the ene­my, and give the Vejentes that assistance at Reme,which they look for in vain in Etruria. Could anything have happened more to the wishes of the Vejen-tes, than to see Rome first, and then the camp, havingcatched the infection, torn in pieces bv divisions? Such,at the same time, upon honour, is the firmness of theVejentes, that not even the pressures of a lon^ siege,nor the burthen of a new king, have brought aboutthe least disturbance among them. The refusal of aidfrom Etruria has not excited them to mutiny. To at­tempt a sedition there, would be punished with imme­diate death; no man dares mutter there, whai yjw speakout with impunity. Whoever deserts his colours, orabandons his post, is sure of the bastinado. But here,they who advise, not one or two "soldiers, but whole