OCR Output B. I.] A GAINST A PI ON. 403 was Phritiphantes. As to the numbers of the multitude thatwere expelled, they agree exceedingly well,1 the formerreckoning them eighty thousand and the latter about twohundred and fifty thousand. Now, for Manetho, he describesthese polluted persons as sent first to work in the quarries,and says that after that the city Avaris was given them fortheir habitation. As also he relates, that it was not till afterthey had made war with the rest of the Egyptians, that theyinvited the people of Jerusalem to come to their assistance;while Cheremon says only, that they were gone out of Egypt,and lighted upon three hundred and eighty thousand menabout Pelusium, who had been left there by Amenophis, andso they invaded Egypt with them again; that thereuponAmenophis fled into Ethiopia. But, then, this Cheremoncommits a most ridiculous blunder in not informing us whothis army of so many ten thousands were, or whence theycame ; whether they were native Egyptians, or whether theycame from a foreign country. Nor, indeed, has this man,who forged a dream from Isis, about the leprous people, as­signed the reason why the king would not bring them intoEgypt. Moreover, Cheremon sets down Joseph as drivenaway at the same time with Moses, who yet died four2 gene­rations before Moses, which four generations make almostone hundred and seventy years. Besides all this, Ramesses,the son of Amenophis, by Manetho's account was a youngman, and assisted his father in this war, and left the countryat the same time with him, and fled into Ethiopia. But Che­remon makes him to have been born in a certain cave, afterhis father was dead, and that he then overcame the Jews inbattle, and drove them into Syria, being in number abouttwo hundred thousand. O the levity of the man! For hehad neither told us who these three hundred and eighty thou­sand were, nor how the four hundred and thirty thousand 1 By way of irony, I suppose. -' Here we see that Josephus esteemed a generation between Joseph andMoses to be about 42 or 43 years; which, if taken between the earlier chil­dren, well agrees with the duration of human life in those ages. Sec Authent.Rec. Part II. p. 906, 1019, 1020.