OCR Output 204 THUS RESUMES [B. V. did not go on in the defence of the city, they thought it muchbetter to die in war. Fate also prevailed so far over them,that the innocent were to perish with the guilty, and the citywas to be destroyed with the seditious that were in it. 2. Thus did the Romans spend four days in bringing thissubsistence-money to the several legions. But on the fifthday, when no signs of peace appeared to come from the Jews,Titus divided his legions, and began to raise banks both atthe tower of Antonia and at John's monument. Now, hisdesigns were to take the upper city at that monument, andthe temple at the tower of Antonia; for if the temple werenot taken, it would be dangerous to keep the city itself; so ateach of these parts he raised him banks, each legion raisingone. As for those that wrought at John's monument, theIdumeans, and those that were in arms with Simon, madesallies upon them, and put some stop to them; while John'sparty, and the multitude of zealots with them, did the like tothose that were before the tower of Antonia. These Jewswere now too hard for the Romans, not only in direct fight­ing, because they stood upon the higher ground, but becausethey had now learned to use their own engines ; for their con­tinual use of them one day after another, did by degrees im­prove their skill about them; for of one sort of engines fordarts they had three hundred, and forty for stones, by themeans of which they made it more tedious for the Romans toraise their banks. But then Titus, knowing that the citywould be either saved or destroyed for himself, did not onlyproceed earnestly in the siege, but did not omit to have theJews exhorted to repentance: so he mixed good counsel withhis works for the siege. And being sensible that exhortationsare frequently more effectual than arms, he persuaded themto surrender the city, now in a manner already taken, andthereby to save themselves, and sent Josephus to speak tothem in their own language; for he imagined they might yieldto the persuasion of a countryman of their own. 3. So Josephus went round about the wall, and tried tofind a place that was out of the reach of their darts, and yetwithin their hearing, and besought them, in many words, —