OCR Output 2 IADERA. IALYSUS. ruijliaa (iii. 7C: coins, an. Sestini, pp. 132, 163;Num. Goth.). [P.S.] IA'DEKA (TdoVpa, Ptol. iii. 16. § 10; 'laSapa,Nket, p. 348; Iadera, Plin. iii. 26; Iader, Pomp.Mela, ii. 3. § 13; PeuL Tab.x Gcog. Rav.; on theorthography of the name sec Tzchucke, no* Mthim,I.e. vol. ii. pt 2. p. 275: Eth. Iadcrtmus, Hirt.D. A. 42: Zara), the capital of Libumia in Illy-ricum. Under Augustus it was made a Romancolony. (** Parens colonial'," Inter, np. Farlati, Illyr.Sacr., vol. v. p. 3; com p. l'tol. /. c.) Afterwardsit 1>")<- the name of Dioikhia. and paid a tribute of110 pieces of gold to the Ea*.tern emperors (ConstPorph. dt A dm. Imp. 30), until it was handed over,in the reign of Basil the Macedonian^ to the Slavonicprinces. Zara, the modern capital of Dalmatia,and well known for the famous siege it stood againstthe combined Frem-h ami Venetians, at the begin­ning of the Fourth Crusade (Gibbon, c. lx.; Wilken,efts A'resjz*. vol. T. p. 167), stands upon the siteof Iadera. Little remain* of the ancient city; thesea-gate called Porta di San Chrysogono is I toman,but it seems likely that it has been brought fromAenona. The pile is a single arch with a Corin­thian pilaster at kuIi bide supporting an entablature. Kckhel (vol. ii. p. 152) doubts the evidence ofany oiins of Iadera, though some have been attri­buted to it by other writers on numismatics. (SirG. Wilkinson, Dalmatia and Montenegro, vol. i.p. 78; J. F. Neigebaur, Die Sudslaven, pp. 181 —191.) [K.B.J.] lADO'XI, a people in the extreme NW. of His-pania Tarraconensis, mentioned only by Pliny, whoplaces them next to the Arrutrcbae. (Plin. iv. 20.a. 34.; [P. S.] lAKTAorIKTAK('Ievaf,Steph.B.: Eth.T«T<uor,Id.; but Oiodorus has'IajriroT^and this is confirmedby coins, the legend of which is uniformly 'Iarmw,Eclchel, vol. i. p. 216: in Latin, Cicero has Jetini,but Pliny letenses), a town of the interior of Sicily,in the NW. of the island, not very far from Panor-inuft. It was mentioned Ly Philistus (ap. Steph. U.*. r.) as a fortress, and it is called by Thucydidcsalso (if the reading *I«rdr be admitted, in vii. 2) afortress of the Siculiau* (t«*xo* ™p 2**«Awk),which was taken by Gylippus on his march fromiltmera through the interior of the bland towardsSyracuse. It first appears as an independent city inthe time of Pyrrbus, and was attacked by thatmonarch on account of its strong position and theadvantages it offered for operations against Panor-mus; but the inhabitants readily capitulated. (Diod.xxii. 10, p. 498.) In the First Punic War it wasoccupied by a Carthaginian garrison, but after thefall of Panormua drove out these troops and openedits gates to the Romans. (Id. xxiii. 18, p. 505.)Under the I toman government it appears as a muni­cipal town, but not one of much importance. TheIi'iini are only noticed in passing by Cicero amongthe towns whose lands had been utterly ruined bythe exactions of Verres; and the Ietenses are enume­rated by Pliny among the " populi stipend is rii** ofthe interior of Sicily. (Cic. Vtrr. iii. 43; Plin. iii.8. a. 14.) Many MSS. of Cicero read /.«<***, and itIs probable that the Afros' of Ptolemy (iii 4. § 15)is only a corruption of the same name. The position of laeta is very obscurely intimated,but it ap|M-ars from Lrtodorus tliat it was not veryremote from Panormua, ami that its site was one ofgreat natural strength. St litis Italicus also alltidn*to its elevated situation ("eclsus Ietas," xiv. 271). Fazcllo assures us that there was a mediaeval for­tress called lata on the summit of a lofty moun­tain, about 15 miles from Paltrmo, and 12 N. ofEntclla, which was destroyed by Frederic II. at thesaute time with the Utter city; and this he sup­poses, probably enough, to be the site of laeta. liesays the mountain was still called Monte di latofthough more commonly known as Monte di S. Com-nuino, from a church on its summit. (Fazell. x.p. 471; Amic /.ex. Top. Sic. vol. ii. p. 291.) Thespot is not marked on any modern map, and doesnot appear to have been visited by any recent tra­vellers. The position thus assigned to laeta agreeswell with the statements of Diodorus. but is whollyirreconcilable with the admission of Ttrar into thetext of Thucydides (vii. 2): this reading, however,is a mere conjecture (see Arnold's cote), and mustprobably be discarded as untenable. [K. II. B J CulM OF IAETA. JAEZER flafte, LXX; 'l*(vp and *A«T«pfEaten.), a city of Gilead, assigned to the tribe ofGad by Moses. In Numbers (xxxii. 1), u the landof Jazer" is mentioned as contiguous to "the landof Gilead, and suited to cattle." In Jeremiah (xiv iii.32), " the sea of Jazcr " occurs in some versions, asin the English; but Itcland (*. v. p. 825) ju»tlyremarks, tliat this is not certain, a-* the passage ma/be pointed after the word " sea," and "Jaaer,'' as avocative, commence the following clause. But as** the Land of Jazer" is used for the country south ofGilead, so the Dead Sea may be designated " the seaof Jazer." Eusebius (Onomcut. s. r. 'Acwp) placeait 8 miles west of Philadelphia or Amnion; andelsewhere (s. v. 'lao-fip), 10 miles west of Philadel­phia, and 15 from Esbou (Ueshbou). He adds, thata large river takes its rise there, which runt intothe Jordan. In a situation nearly corrc>j<ondiiigwith this, between Szalt and Etbue, Burckhardtposted some ruins named Szyr, where a valleynamed W'ady Szyr takes its rise and runs into the.Jordan. This is doubtless the inodeni representativeof the ancient Jazer. '* In two hours and a half(from Szalt) we passed, on our right, the Watty Szyr,which has its source near the road, and falls into theJordan. Above the source, on the declivity of thevalley, are the ruins called &yr.°* {Syria, p. 364.)It is probably identical with the Tempos of Ptolemywhich he reckons among the cities of Palestine oathe east of the Jordan (v. 16). [*>- W.] IAXYSUS ('IoActfor, 'leUwreoi, or ln\ucaos:Eth. TaXitrtriof), one of the three ancient Uoriccities in tlie island of Ithodes, and one of the sixtowns constituting the Doric btxapolia. It was si­tuated only six stadia to the aouth-west of the cityof Rhodes, and it would seem that the rise of theUtter city was the cause of the decay of lalysos;for in the time of Strabo (xiv. p. 655) it existed onlyas a village. Pliny (v. 30) did not consider it as anindependent place at all, but imagined that lalysu*was the ancient name of Rhodes. Orychoma, the ci­tadel, was situated above lalysus, and still existed inthe time of Strabo. It b supposed by some that