OCR Output 256 tlVY. and whatever is dear to you, if any choose to visityour friends, I now give you leave of absence. At thebeginning of spring I charge you to attend here, inorder that, with the aid of the gods, we may enter ona war, from which we shall reap abundance both ofhonor and riches.' This voluntary offer of leave torevisit their homes was highly pleasing to almost everyone of them ; for they already longed to see theirfriends, and foresaw a longer absence from them likelyto happen. This interval of rest renewed the powersof their minds and bodies, enabling them to encounterevery hardship anew; for the fatigues they had al­ready sustained, and those they were soon to undergo,appeared to be little thought of. At the beginning ofspring they therefore assembled, according to orders.Hannibal, after reviewing the auxiliaries of the severalnations, went to Gades, where he fulfilled his vows toHercules, and bound himself in new ones, in case hisfuture operations should be crowned with success.Then dividing his attention between the measures re­quisite for annoying the enemy and those necessaryfor defence, lest, while he should be making his wayto Italy by land through Spain and Gaul, Africa shouldbe naked and open to an attack of the Romans fromSicily, he resolved to provide for its security by send­ing thither a strong body of forces. In the room ofthese he required a reinforcement to be sent to himfrom Africa, consisting chiefly of light-armed spear­men. This he did with the view that the Africansserving in Spain, and the Spaniards in Africa, whereeach would be better soldiers at a distance fromhome, they might be, as it were, mutual hostagesfor the good behavior of each other. He sent intoAfrica, of infantry, thirteen thousand eight hundredand fifty targeteers, with eight hundred and seventyBalearic slingers ; of cavalry, collected from many na­tions, one thousand two hundred. Part of these forceshe ordered to garrison Carthage, the rest to be distri­buted through Africa. At the same time he orderedfour thousand chosen young men, whom he had en­