OCR Output 58 [book n ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. for thyself, to preserve even those that wouldhave nobody to lament them when they weredead; but we would have yielded ourselvesup to suffer whatsoever thou pleasedst. Butnow, (for we do not plead for mercy to our­selves, though indeed, if we die, it will bewhile we are young, and before we have hadthe enjoyment of life,) have regard to ourfather, and take pity on his old age; on whoseaccount it is that we make these supplications.We beg thou wilt give us those lives, whichthis wickedness of ours has rendered obnox­ious to thy punishment; and this for his sakewho is not himself wicked; nor does his beingour father make us wicked. He is a goodman, and not worthy to have such trials of hispatience; now we are absent he is afflictedwith care for us. But if he hear of our deaths,and what was the cause of it, he will on thataccount die an immature death: and the re­proachful manner of our ruin will hasten hisend, and will directly kill him; nay, will bringhim to a miserable death, while he will makehaste to rid himself out of the world, and bringhimself to a state of insensibility, before thesad story of our end come abroad into therest of the world. "Consider things in this manner, althoughour wickedness does now provoke thee, witha just desire of punishing that wickedness;and forgive it for our father's sake; and letthy commiseration of him weigh more withthee, than our wickedness. Have regard tothe old age of our father, who, if we perish,will be very lonely while he lives; and willsoon die himself also. Grant this boon to thename of father, for thereby thou wilt honourhim that begat thee, and wilt grant it to thy­self also, who enjoyest already that denomi­nation; thou wilt then, by that denomination,be preserved of God the father of all; byshewing a pious regard to which in the caseof our father, thou wilt appear to honour himwho is styled by the same name. I mean ifthou wilt have this pity on our father, uponthe consideration how miserable he will be ifhe be deprived of his sons. It is thy part,therefore, to bestow on us what God has givenus, when it is in thy power to take it away;and so to resemble him intirely in charity.For it is good to use that power which can * In all this speech of Judas's we may observe, thatJosephus supposed death to have been the punishment of neither give nor take away, on the mercifulside, and when it is in thy power to destroy,to forget that thou ever hadst that power, andto look on thyself as only allowed power forpreservation; and that the more any one ex­tends this power, the greater reputation doeshe gain to himself. Now by forgiving ourbrother what he has unhappily committed,thou wilt preserve us all. For we cannotthink of living if he be put to death; since wedare not shew ourselves alive to our fatherwithout our brother. But here must we par­take of one and the same catastrophe. Andso far we beg of thee, O governor, that if thoucondemnest our brother to die, thou wiltpunish us together with him, as partakers ofhis crime; for we shall not think it reasonableto be reserved to kill ourselves for grief ofour brother's death, but so to die rather asequally guilty with him of this crime. I willonly leave with thee this one consideration,and then will say no more, viz. that our bro­ther committed his fault when he was young,and not yet of confirmed wisdom in his con­duct; and that men naturally forgive suchyoung persons. And I end here, withoutadding what more I have to say, that in casethou condemnest us, that omission may besupposed to have hurt us, and permitted theeto take the severer side. But in case thousettest us free, that this may be ascribed tothy own goodness; of which thou art inwardlyconscious, that thou freest us from condem­nation; and that not by barely preserving us,but by granting us such a favour as will makeus appear more righteous than we really are:and by representing to thyself more motivesfor our deliverance than we are able to pro­duce ourselves. If, therefore, thou resolvestto slay him, I desire thou wilt slay me in hisstead, and send him back to his father, or ifthou pleasest to retain him with thee as aslave, I am fitter to labour for thy advantagein that capacity, and as thou seest, am better Prepared for either of those sufferings."* Soudas being very willing to undergo anything for the deliverance of his brother, casthimself clown at Joseph's feet, and earnestlylaboured to assuage and pacify his anger. Allhis brethren also fell down before him, weep­ing and delivering themselves up for destruc- theft in Egypt, in the days of Joseph; though it never wagso among the Jews, by the law of Moses.