OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. Page 141;. The hydra."] As we have already shewn that thelabours of Hercules are allegorical, the account given of his cut­ting off the hydra's heads, which formed one of his labours, mustconsequently be a fabulous narration. By the hydra, therefore,the ancients seem to have occultly signified the various and ma­terial form of the foul, which branches out into—I. Communi­cation with the lives and opinions of the multitude. 2. Multi­form desires, which divide the foul about body, and cause it toenergize about externals; at one time connecting it with irra­tional pleasures, and at another time with actions indefinite and,opposing each other. 3. The senses, which are educated as itwere with the rational foul, and deceive its cogitative power; forthese are multiform, and perceive nothing accurate or true,4. Phantasies, on account of their figured and divisible nature,and immense variety, which do not suffer us to betake ourselves)to an indivisible and immaterial essence, but draw down those whoare hastening to the apprehension of such a nature, to a passiveIntelligence. 5. Opinions, because these are various and infinite,tend to externals, and are mingled with phantasy and sense. Thehydra's heads therefore are images of all these, which Hercules,who is an intellectual hero, is with great propriety said to havedestroyed. Page 246. To had loch Semele."] Bacchus is the monad, orproximately exempt producing cause of the Titaus, or ultimateartificers of things; and Semele, as we have shewn from Olynv*piodorns, in a former note, is sublunary fire, i. e. the divinity ofsublunary fire. As Semele, therefore, according to heT ultimateprogressions, is suspended from Bacchus, she may verv properlybe laid to have been led back from Hades, or the profundities ofa material nature, by Bacchus; because every divine monad ele­vates to itself the series of which it is the head. I only add, thatit is by no means improbable that this Alcyonian lake may be oneof those passages through which the defluxions of the element*are transmitted to the inmost, recesses of the earth, so as to forra those