OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 116 called after him, the Appian, and for having conveyedwater into the city. These works he performed alone ;for his colleague, overwhelmed with shame by reasonof the infamous and unworthy choice made of senators,had abdicated his office. Appius possessing that in­flexibility of temper which, from the earliest times,had been the characteristic of his family, held on thecensorship by himself. By direction of the same Ap­pius the Potitian family, in which the office of priestsattendant on the great altar of Hercules was hereditary,instructed some of the public servants in the rites ofthat solemnity, with the intention to delegate the sameto them. The consequence, as related, is wonderful tobe told, and sufficient to make people scrupulous ofdisturbing the established modes of religious solemni­ties : for though there were at that time twelve branchesof the Potitian family, all grown-up persons, and notfewer than thirty, yet they were every, one, togetherwith their offspring, cut off within the year ; so that thename of the Potitii became extinct, while the censorAppius also was pursued by the wrath of the gods;and, some years after, deprived of sight. 30. The consuls of the succeeding year [A.U.C. 443.B. C. 309] were Caius Junius Bubulcus a third time,and Quintus jEmilius Barbula a second. In the com­mencement of their office they complained before thepeople that, by the improper choice which had beenmade of members of the senate, that body had beendisgraced, several having been passed over who werepreferable to the persons chosen in ; and they declaredthat they would pay no regard to such election, made,without distinction of right or wrong, merely to gratifyinterest or humor: they then immediately called overthe list of the senate, in the same order which hadtaken place before the censorship of Appius Claudiusand Caius Plautius. Two public employments, bothrelating to military affairs, came this year into the dis­posal of the people; one being an order that sixteen ofthe tribunes, for four legions, should be appointed bythe people; whereas hitherto they had been generally