OCR Output 224 LIVY. person twice in the treasury list, he would have in­serted his name particularly. The contest betweenthe censors, thus mutually reproaching each other,was shameful; while the rebuke given to the giddi­ness of the people was highly becoming a censor, andthe strict principles of that age. The censors havingfallen into disrepute, Cneius Baebius, tribune of thepeople, thinking that their situation afforded him anopportunity of gaining notice, summoned them both toa trial before the people; but the senate interfered,and stopped any farther proceedings, lest the office afcensor should in future be subjected to the humor ofthe populace. 38. During the same summer the consul took Clam-petia in Bruttium by storm. Consentia and Pandosia,with other towns of small consequence, surrenderedvoluntarily; and, as the time of the elections drewnear, it was thought more expedient to call home Cor­nelius from Etruria, where there was no employmentfor his arms. He elected Cneius Servilius Caapio andCneius Servilius Geminus. The election of the pre-tors was then held: there were chosen Cneius Corne­lius Lentulus, Publius Quintilius Varus, PubliusjElius Partus, and Publius Villius Tappulus; al­though the two latter were ediles of the commons.The consul, as soon as the elections were over, returnedinto Etruria to his army. The priests who died thatyear, and those who were substituted in the places ofothers, were Tiberius Veturius Philo, flamen of Mars,elected and inaugurated in the room of Marcus JEmi-lius Regillus, deceased the year before. In the roomof Marcus Pomponius Matho, augur and decemvir,were elected, as decemvir, Marcus Aurelius Cotta;as augur, Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus, who wasthen very young; an instance in those times extremelyrare in the disposal of a priest's office. Golden cha­riots, with four horses, were that year placed in thecapitol by the curule ediles, Caius Livius and Mar­cus Servilius Geminus. The Roman games were re­peatedly exhibited for two days. In like manner the