OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 229 or Huns, of Pannonia, the same calamitieswhich they had inflicted on the nations. Theirrings, the wooden fortifications which encircled theirdistricts and villages, were broken down by the tripleeffort of a French army, that was poured into theircountry by land and water, through the Carpathianmountains, and along the plain of the Danube. Aftera bloody conflict of eight years, the loss of some Frenchgenerals was avenged by the slaughter of the most no­ble Huns: the relics of the nation submitted: the royalresidence of the chagan was left desolate and unknown:and the treasures, the rapine of two hundred and fiftyyears, enriched the victorious troops, or decorated thechurches of Italy and Gaul.' After the reduction ofPannonia the empire of Charlemagne was boundedonly by the conflux of the Danube with the Teyss andthe Save: the provinces of Istria, Liburnia, and Dal-matia, were an easy, though unprofitable, accession;and it was an effect of his moderation, that he left themaritime cities under the real or nominal sovereigntyof the Greeks. But these distant possessions addedmore to the reputation than to the power of the Latinemperor; nor did he risk any ecclesiastical foundationsto reclaim the barbarians from their vagrant life andidolatrous worship. Some canals of communicationbetween the rivers, the Saone and the Meuse, theRhine and the Danube, were faintly attempted." Theirexecution would have vivified the empire; and morecost and labour were often wasted in the structure of acathedral. 1 Quot pralia in eo gesta! quantum sanguinis effusum sit! Testator vacuaoiuni habitations Pannonia, et locus in quo regia Cagani fuit ita desertus, ut nevestigium quidem humanIB habitationis appareat* Tota in hoc bello Hunnorumnobilitas periit, tota gloria decidit, omnis pecunia et congest! ex longo temporethesauri direpti sunt. '- The junction of the Rhine and Danube was undertaken only for the serviceof the Pannonian war. (Gaillard, Vie de Charlemagne, torn. 2. p. 312—315.)The canal, which would have been only two leagues in length, and of which sometraces are still extant in Swabia, was interrupted by excessive rains, military avo­cations, and superstitious fears. (Schaepflin, Hist, de rAcademie des Inscriptions,torn. 18. p. 256. Molimina fluviorum, &c. jungendorum, p. 59—62.)