OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 285 emperor Justin the rapid and irretrievable loss of his chap. YY YVITI provinces and cities*. One city, which had been'' diligently fortified by the Goths, resisted the arms ofa new invader; and while Italy was subdued by theflying detachments of the Lombards, the royal campwas fixed above three years before the western gateof Ticinum, or Pavia. The same courage which ob­tains the esteem of a civilized enemy provokes thefury of a savage; and the impatient besieger hadbound himself by a tremendous oath, that age, andsex, and dignity, should be confounded in a generalmassacre. The aid of famine at length enabled himto execute his bloody vow; but as Alboin enteredthe gate, his horse stumbled, fell, and could not beraised from the ground. One of his attendants wasprompted by compassion, or piety, to interpret thismiraculous sign of the wrath of Heaven: the con­queror paused and relented; he sheathed his sword,and, peacefully reposing himself in the palace ofTheodoric, proclaimed to the trembling multitudethat they should live and obey. Delighted with thesituation of a city, which was endeared to his prideby the difficulty of the purchase, the prince of theLombards disdained the ancient glories of Milan;and Pavia, during some ages, was respected as thecapital of the kingdom of Italy t. The reign of the founder was splendid and tran- Alboin issient; and before he could regulate his new con- by^swifequests, Alboin fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and ""iTIs?:!'female revenge. In a place near Verona, which had June 28.not been erected for the Barbarians, he feasted the * Paul has given a description of Italy, as it was then divided, into eighteenregions (1. ii. c. 14—24). The Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii jEvi,by Father Beretti, a Benedictine monk, and regius professor at Pavia, has beenusefully consulted. •f- For the conquest of Italy, see the original materials of Paul (1. ii. c. 7—10.12. 14. 25, 20, 27), the eloquent narrative of Sigonius (tom. ii. de Regno Italics,I. i. p. 13—19), and the correct and critical review of Muratori (Annali d'ltalia,tom. v. p. 104—180).