OCR Output 116 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL he sent one to be with the king every day. So when he had ac­companied with her, he sent her back to the eunuch: and whenEsther had come to him, he was pleased with her, and fell inlove with the damsel, and married her, and made her his lawfulwife, and kept a wedding feast for her on the twelfth monthof the seventh year of his reign, which was called Adar. Healso sent angari, as they are called, or messengers, unto everynation, and gave orders that they should keep a feast for hismarriage, while he himself treated the Persians and the Medes,and the principal men of the nations, for a whole month, onaccount of this his marriage. Accordingly, Esther came to hisroyal palace, and he set a diadem on her head: And thus wasEsther married, without making known to the king what na­tion she was derived from. Her uncle also removed from Ba­bylon to Shushan, and dwelt there, being every day about thepalace, and inquiring how the damsel did, for he loved her as-thougjh she had been his own daughter. 3. Now the king had made * a law, that none of his ownpeople should approach him unless he were called, when he satupon his throne; men, with axes in their hands, stood roundabout his throne, in order to punish such as approached to himwithout being called. However, the king sat with a goldensceptre in his hand, which he held out when he had a mind tosave any one of those that approached to him without being call­ed: and he who touched it was free from danger. But of this-matter we have discoursed sufficiently. 4. Some time after this [two eunuchs] Bigthan and Teresh-plotted against the king; and Barnabazus, the servant of one ofthe ennuchs, being by birth a Jew, was acquainted with theirconspiracy, and discovered it to the queen's uncle; and Mor-decai, by the means of Esther, made the conspirators known tothe king. This troubled the king, but he discovered the truth,and hanged the eunuchs upon a cross, while at that time he gaveno reward to Mordecai, who had been the occasion of his preser­vation. He only bid the scribes to set down his name in therecords, and bid him stay in the palace, as an intimate friend ofthe king's. 5. Now there was one Haman, the son of Amedatha, by birthan Amalekite, that used to go. in to the king; and the foreignersand Persians worshipped him, as Artaxerxes had commanded * Herodotus says, that this law [against any one's coming uncalled to the kingsof Persia when they were sitting on their thrones] was first enacted by Deioces, i. e.(by him who first withdrew tliu Medes from the dominion of the Assyrians, andhimself first reigned over them.) Thus also, says Spanheim, stood guards, withtheir axes, about the throne of Tenus, Tenudus, that the offender might by them bepunished immediately.