OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. The Persians followed without a murmur the commandsof a single chief, who implicitly obeyed the instructionsof their supreme lord. Their general was distinguishedamong the heroes of the east by his wisdom in council,and his valour in the field. The advanced age of Mer-meroes, and the lameness of both his feet, could not di­minish the activity of his mind, or even of his body; andwhilst he was carried in a litter in the front of battle,he inspired terror to the enemy, and a just confidenceto the troops, who, under his banners, were always suc­cessful. After his death, the command devolved to Na-coragan, a proud satrap, who, in conference with, theimperial chiefs, had presumed to declare that he disposedof victory as absolutely as of the ring on his finger.Such presumption was the natural cause and forerunnerof a shameful defeat. The Romans had been graduallyrepulsed to the edge of the sea-shore; and their lastcamp, on the ruins of the Grecian colony of Phasis, wa3defended on all sides by strong intrenchments, the river,the Euxine, and a fleet of galleys. Despair united theircouncils and invigorated their arms; they withstood theassaults of the Persians; and the flight of Nacoraganpreceded or followed the slaughter of ten thousand ofhis bravest soldiers. He escaped from the Romans tofall into the hands of an unforgiving master, who severelychastised the error of his own choice; the unfortunategeneral was flayed alive, and his skin, stuffed into thehuman form, was exposed on a mountain: a dreadfulwarning to those who might hereafter be intrusted withthe fame and fortune of Persia/ Yet the prudence ofChosroes insensibly relinquished the prosecution of theColchian war, in the just persuasion that it is impossibleto reduce, or at least to hold, a distant country againstthe wishes and efforts of its inhabitants. The fidelity * The punishment of flaying alive could not be introduced into Persia by Sapor,(Brison da Regn. Pers. lib. 2. p. 578.) nor could it be copied from the foolish tale ofMarsyas the Phrygian piper, most foolishly quoted as a precedent by Agathias. (lib.4. p. 132, 133.)