OCR Output BOMA. ROMA. 759 Wjt ffito it obtained its present name cannotitenruoeJ; it* ancient one was undoubtedlyt«i (run the Via Flamiuia, which it spanned,i :ht uo» rf Procopius, and indeed long before,inU totht east had bent outwards from theicto tW pressure of the Pincian hill, whence ita ailed rww fractus or inc/molu*, just as ita* oiled bmwv torto. (Procop. Zf. G. i. 23.)1st oat gale, proceeding a] way a to the right,a tat 1'okta Pikciana, before mentioned,wa wts already walled up in the time of ■ JbbUinous of Ein&iedlen. It of course de­ws' ru name from the hill on which it stood.l*au Lad a boose near this gate (Anastas.'rrrh!, pp. 104, 106); and either from thisrvnUace, or from the exploits performed be- * .1 br BelUariua, it is supposed to have beenj tiLai Btiuariv, a name which actually occurs«* «r two passages of Procopius (B. G. L 18,, d Xibbj, J/ura, <fc. p. 248). But the Salariabu to bare a better claim to this second appella-l. w lb* gat* which Belisarius himself defended; ii fc* more probable that there was no suchat st ail, aad that Be\taapt'a in the passagesid a only a corruption of SoAapia. (Becker,Vtm, p, H5 j L'riichs in Class. Mug. voL ill.IK.) f>»r«tog the two gates lying between the Porta■tat and the Praetorian camp there can be noin they stood over, and derived their namest. Uk Via Salaria and Via Nomcntana. Inr unes both these roads issued from the Portafat of tat Servian wall; but their divergence ofrendered two gates necessary in a wall drawni * we^er radius. The Porta Salakia still sub-•»i:a the same name,allhougb it has undergone aPius IV. destroyed the Porta Nomkn-'i, u»i built in iu stead the present Porta Pia. ■ '-ampOue ou the latter testines the destructiontt sftosnt gate, the place of which is markedt»tablet bearing the date of 1564. A little to>f- <4 tli* gate are the walls of the Castrar*-- projecting considerably beyond the rest of u Aurehau included the camp in his forti-stt The Porta 1>k<:i:uama, though walled * visible, as well as the Pruicu'ALESbuiea. •*. lUa un the eastern tract of (he Aurelian walls'titmauaed considerable perplexity. On this side)r -jjv f.^f road* are mentioned, the Tiburtina,k u. Prsraeatiiia, and Labicana, and two gates,'■in TiacarrixA and Pra£nestina. Buta "in* gates, which are commonly thought to4<ad with the modern ones of 5. Ijtrenzo andJ -Vajyiere, there is a gate close to the Prae-i l^:^,, shoot the tixe of the Pinciana, and re-I be Huoorian gatvs in its architecture,- lu been willed up from time immemorial,Lrar* railed Porta Clau&a, or/'orAi Chiusa.J^ully ues in determining which were the Ttburuna and Praenestina. The whole*j iiu been so lucidly stated by Mr. Bunbury*s r*jinot do better than borrow his words: Wo generally asaumed that the two gates ■ n xoOtrn times as tlie Porta S. Lorenzo** }'vr(a Maggiore are the same as were ori--< respectively the Porta Tiburtina and * Lua, sad that the roads bearing the same led from them directly to the important'irua which they derived their name. It is■■K is all hands that they appear under these names in the Anonginus; and a comparison of twopassages of Procopius (/>'. G. i. 19, lb. p. 96) wouldappear to lead us to the same result. In the formerof these Procopius speaks of the part of the cityattacked by the Goths as comprising five gates(iruAai), and extending from the Flaminmn to thePraenestine. That lie did not reckon the Pincianaas one of these seems probable, from the care withwhich, in the second passage referred to, he dis­tinguishes it as a wvAi's, or minor gate. Supposingthe closed gate near the Praetorian camp to have beenomitted for the same reason, we have just the five re*quired, viz., Flaminia, Salaria, Nomentana, Tiburtina{Porta S. Lorenzo), and Praenestina (Mnggiore).On this supposition both these ancient ways (theTiburtina and Praenestina) must have issued origi­nally from the Esquiline gate of the Servian walls.Now we know positively from Straho that the ViaPraenestina did so, as did also a third road, the ViaLabicana, which led to the town of that name, andafterwards rejoined the Via Latina at the station culledAd Pictaa (v. p. 237). Strabo, ou the other hand,does not mention from what gate the road to Tiburissued in his time. Kiebuhr has therefore followedFabretti and Piale in assuming that the latter ori­ginally proceeded from the Porta ViminaJi*, which,as we have seen, stood in the middle of the aggerof Servius, and that it passed through the walls ofAurelian by means of a gate now blocked up, butstill extant, just at the angle where those walls join on to the Custra Practoria. Assuming this to have been the original Tiburtina,Kiebuhr (followed by MM. Bunsen and Urliens)considers the Porta S. Lorenzo to have been thePraenestina, and the Porta Maggiore to have beenthe Labicana; but that when the gate adjoining thePraetorian camp was blocked up, the road to Tiruliwas transferred to the Porta S. Lorenzo, and thatto Praeneste to the gate next in order, which thusacquired the name of Praenestina instead of itsformer one of Labicana {Btschrcibung, i. p. 657, seq).To this suggestion there appear to be two principalobjections brought forward by M. Becker, neither ofwhich M. Urlichs has answered: the first, that, sup-posiug the Via Tiburtina to have been so transferred,which taken alone might be probable enough, thereis no apparent reason why the Via Praenestinashould have been also shifted, instead of the twothenceforth issuing together from the same gate,and diverging immediately afterwards; and secondly,that there is no authority for the existence of sucha gate culled the Labicana at all. The passage ofStrabo, already cited, concerning the Via Labicana,certainly seems to imply that that road in his timeseparated from the Praenestina immediately afterleaving the Ksquiiinc gate; but there is no impro­bability in the suggestion of M. Becker, that itscourse was altered at the time of the construction ofthe new walls, whether under Aurelian or Honorius,in order to avoid an unnecessary increase of thenumber of gates. Many such changes in the di­rection of the principal roads may have taken placeat that time, of which we have no account, and onwhich it is impossible to speculate. Westphal, inhis Romische Campagne ^p. 78), has adopted nearlythe same view of the case: but he considers the ViaLabicana to have originally had a gate assigned toit, which was afterwards walled up, and the roadcarried out of the same gate with the Via Praenes­tina. The only real difficulty iu the ordinary viewof the subject, supported by M. Becker, appears to 8 c 4