OCR Output 4755 DISSERTATION I. About A. D. 1360. Nicephorus Callistus Hist. Eccles. lib.i. p. 90, 91.—Now this [concerning Herod the tetrarch] isattested to, not only by the book of the holy gospels, but byJosephus, that lover of truth ; who also makes mention of He-rodias, his brother's wife, whom Herod had taken away fromhim, while he was alive, and married her, having divorced hisformer lawful wife, who was the daughter of Aretas, king ofthe Petrean Arabians. This Herodias he had married, andlived with her: on which account also, when he had slainJohn, ho made war with Aretas, because his daughter hadbeen dishonorably used; in which war he relates that allHerod's army was destroyed, and that he suffered this onaccount of the most unjust slaughter of John. He also addsthat John was a most righteous man. Moreover, he makesmention of his baptism, agreeing in all points thereto relatingwith the gospel. He also informs us that Herod lost his king­dom on account of Herodias, with whom also he was con­demned to be banished to Vienna, which was their place ofexile, and a city bordering upon Gaul, and lying near theutmost bounds of the west. About A. D. 1450. Hardmannus Schedelius Chron. p.110.—Josephus the Jew, who was called Flavius. a priest,and the son of Mattathias, a priest of that nation, a most cele­brated historian, and very skilful in many things: he wascertainly a good man, and of an excellent character, who hadthe highest opinion of Christ. About A. D. 1480. Platina de Vitis Pontificum in Christo.— I shall avoid mentioning what Christ did until the 30thyear of his age, when he was baptised by John, the son of Za-charias, because not only the gospels and epistles are fullof those acts of his, which he did in the most excellent andmost holy manner, but the books of such as were quite remotefrom his way of living, and acting, and ordaining, arc alsofull of the same. Flavius Josephus himself, who wrote twentybooks of Jewish Antiquities in the Greek tongue, when he hadproceeded as far as the government of the emperor Tiberius,says, there was in those days Jesus, a certain wise man, if atleast it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of won­