OCR Output *20 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII. was exemplified in act: They even sell upon the publicschool, which was a very large one, when the youthof the town were but just got in, and hacked all thechildren to pieces. And thus this whole city was invol­ved in a calamity, a greater than which no city had everfelt nay, a calamity unexpected and dreadful indeed! The Thebans had no fooner intelligence of it, than theymarched to their assistance; but came not up with theThracians till they were retired to some distance fromthe town, where they recovered from them their booty,and, having put them to flight, continue the chacedown to the Euripus and the sea, where the vesselswhich had brought them lay at anchor. Here theymake a staughter of most of those who endeavoured toget on-board, but could not swim; since the persons leftin the vessels, when they law what passed on the shore,put them off beyond their reach. But, in the otherpartsof the retreat, the Thracians behaved with some gal­lantry against the Theban horse, which attacked themfirst since, sallying frequently out on the pursuers, andrallying again after the discipline of their country, theymade good their retreat; and thus few of this body weredestroyed. A number, farther, who staid behind in thecity to plunder, were found there and put to thesword. The whole number of the slain, amongst thisbody of thirteen hundred Thracians, amounted to twohundred and fifty men; though, in return, they killed,of Thebans, and others who accompanied by way of aid,of horse and heavy-armed together, about twenty, andSkirphondas of Thebes, one of the rulers of Bœotia;the lives of some more Mycalessians were also lost intheir company. Such was the calamity which fell tothe unhappy lot of Mycalesius; and which, for excessof horror, is more to be deplored than any other of thetragical events of this war. Demosthenes, who, after marking out the fortifica­tion, had stood away from Laconia to Corcyra, sur­prising a transport-vessel which rode at anchor in the .. . road