OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of Assyria were open for the first time to the Romans. By a just gradation ofmagnificent scenes, they penetrated to the royal seat of Dastagerd, and thoughmuch of the treasure had been removed, and much had been expended, the re­maining wealth appears to have exceeded their hopes, and even to have satiatedtheir avarice. Whatever could not be easily transported, they consumed with fire,that Chosroes might feel the anguish of those wounds, which he had so often in­flicted on the provinces of the empire: and justice might allow the excuse, if thedesolation had been confined to the works of regal luxury, if national hatred, mi­litary license, and religious zeal, had not wasted with equal rage the habitationsand the temples of the guiltless subject. The recovery of three hundred Romanstandards, and the deliverance of the numerous captives of Edessa and Alexan­dria, reflect a purer glory on the arms of Heraclius. From the palace of Dasta­gerd, he pursued his march within a few miles of Modian or Ctesiphon, till hewas stopped on the banks of the Arba, by the difficulty of the passage, the rigourof the season, and perhaps the fame of an impregnable capital. The return of theemperor is marked by the modern name of the city of Sherhzour; he fortunatelypassed mount Zara, before the snow, which fell incessantly thirty-four days, andthe citizens of Gandzaca, or Tauris, were compelled to entertain his soldiers andtheir horses with a hospitable reception. (1) When the ambition of Chosroes was reduced to the defence of his hereditarykingdom, the love of glory, or even the sense of shame, should have urged him tomeet his rival in the field. In the battle of Nineveh, his courage might havetaught the Persians to vanquish, or he might have fallen with honour by the lanceof a Roman emperor. The successor «f Cyrus chose rather, at a secure distance,to expect the event, to assemble the relics of the defeat, and to retire by mea­sured steps before the march of Heraclius, till he beheld with a sigh the once-lovedmansions of Dastagerd. Both his friends and enemies were persuaded, that itwas the intention of Chosroes to bury himself under the ruins of the city and pa­lace: and as both might have been equally adverse to his flight, the monarch ofAsia, with Sira, and three concubines, escaped through a hole in the wall ninedays before the arrival of the Romans. The slow and stately procession in whichhe showed himself to the prostrate crowd, was changed to a rapid and secret jour­ney; and the first evening he lodged in the cottage of a peasant, whose humble doorwould scarcely give admittance to the great king. (2) His superstition was sub­dued by fear: on the third day, he entered with joy the fortifications of Ctesiphon;yet he still doubted of his safety till he had opposed the river Tigris to the pursuitof the. Romans. The discovery of his flight agitated with terror and tumult the Ealace, the city, and the camp, of Dastagerd: the satraps hesitated whether theyad most to fear from their sovereign or the enemy; and the females of the haramwere astonished and pleased by the sight of mankind, till the jealous husband ofthree thousand wives again confined them to a more distant castle. At his com­mand, the army of Dastagerd retreated to a new camp: the front was coveredby the Arba, and a line of two hundred elephants; the troops of the more distantprovinces successively arrived, and the vilest domestics of the king and satraps,were enrolled for the last defence of the throne. It was still in the power of Chos­roes to obtain a reasonable peace; and he was repeatedly pressed by the messen­gers of Heraclius, to spare the blood of his subjects, and to relieve a humane con­queror from the painful duty of carrying fire and sword through the fairest coun­tries of Asia. But the pride of the Persian had not yet sunk to the level of hisfortune; he derived a momentary confidence from the retreat of the emperor: hewept with impotent rage over the ruins of his Assyrian palaces, and disregardedtoo long the rising murmurs of the nation, who complained that their lives andfortunes were sacrificed to the obstinacy of an old man. That unhappy old manwas himself tortured with the sharpest pains both of mind and body; and, in theconsciousness of his approaching end, he resolved to fix the tiara on the head ofMerdaza, the most favoured of his sons. But the will of Chosroes was no longerrevered, and Siroes, who gloried in the rank and merit of his mother Sira, hadconspired with the malcontents to assert and anticipate the rights of primogeni- (1) In describing this last expedition of Heraclius, the facts, the places, ami the dates of Theophaoes, (p.Sfl5—271.) are so accurate and authentic that he must have followed the original letters of the emperor, ofwhich the Paschal Chronicle has preserved (p. 398—402.) a very curious specimen. (2) The words of Theophanei are remarkable: tirqhSt Xa<rpot); us oixoi* ytutpyov pyi$<ettnicu /«*van, ou %wpifwictv m toutou 6op», i}k iSmv itryp™ 'Hp*io.s<o; sSxpMrt, (p. 269.) Yotrqg prhicei who discover a propensity to warsjhoqld repeatedly iranrtrib? and translate sirch wfutary teim -