OCR Output Ot'THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 135 sword. Their rapid journey through Gaul and Italy, during whichthey never eat at the same table, or slept in the same house, dis­played to the provinces the odious spectacle of fraternal discord.On their arrival at Rome, they immediately divided the vast ex­tent of the Imperial palace ,S. No communication was allowed •between their apartments; the doors and passages were diligentlyfortified, and guards posted and relieved with the fame strictness asin a besieged place. The emperors met only in public, in the pre­sence of their afflicted mother; and each surrounded by a numeroustrain of armed followers. Even on these occasions of ceremony,the dissimulation of courts could ill disguise the rancour of theirhearts 19. . . This latent civil war already distracted the whole government, Fruitless ne-•when a scheme was suggested that seemed of mutual benefit to the firidm^hehostile brothers. It was proposed, that since it was impossible to emPire }*~ * 4 r tween them. xeconcile their minds, they should separate their interest, and dividethe empire between them* The conditions of the treaty were al­ready drawn with some accuracy. It was agreed, that Caracalla, as theelder brother, should remain in possession of Europe and the westernAfrica; and that he should relinquish the sovereignty of Asia andEgypt to Geta, who might six his residence at Alexandria or Anti-och, cities little inferior to Rome itself in wealth and greatness;that numerous armies should be constantly encamped on either sideof the Thracian Bosphorus, to guard the frontiers of the rivalmonarchies; and that the senators of European extraction should ac­knowledge the sovereign of Rome, whilst the natives of Asia fol­lowed the emperor of the East. The tears of the empress Juliainterrupted the negociation, the first idea of which had filled everyRoman breast with surprise and indignation. The mighty mass ofconquest was so intimately united by the hand of time and policy1,that it required the most forcible violence to rend it asunder. TheRomans had reason to dread, that the disjointed members would soon be ■