OCR Output CHAP. LII. 48U welcome perhaps to the unfortunate than to the victoriouschief. The merciless inquisition of the conqueror eradi­cated the most distant branches of the hostile race: theirbones were scattered, their memory was accursed, andthe martyrdom of Hossein was abundantly revenged onthe posterity of his tyrants. Fourscore of the Ommi-ades, who had yielded to the faith or clemency of theirfoes, were invited to a banquet at Damascus. The lawsof hospitality were violated by a promiscuous massacre:the board was spread over their fallen bodies; and thefestivity of the guests was enlivened by the music of theirdying groans. By the event of the civil war the dy­nasty of the Abbassides was firmly established; but theChristians only could triumph in the mutual hatred andcommon loss of the disciples of Mahomet.pRevolt of Yet the thousands who were swept away bySpaio. the sword of war might have been speedily re­trieved in the succeeding generation, if the consequencesof the revolution had not tended to dissolve the powerand unity of the empire of the Saracens. In the pro­scription of the Ommiades, a royal youth of the name ofAbdalrahman alone escaped the rage of his enemies,who hunted the wandering exile from the banks of theEuphrates to the valleys of mount Atlas. His presencein the neighbourhood of Spain revived the zeal of thewhite faction. The name and cause of the Abbassideshad been first vindicated by the Persians; the west hadbeen pure from civil arms: and the servants of the ab­dicated family still held, by a precarious tenure, the in­heritance of their lands and the offices of government.Strongly prompted by gratitude, indignation, and fear,they invited the grandson of the caliph Hashem to as­cend the throne of his ancestors; and, in his desperatecondition, the extremes of rashness and prudence were T See Abulfeda, (Annal. Moslem, p. 136—145.) Eutychius, (Annal.'torn. 2.p. 398. vers. Pocock.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 109—121.) Abulpharagius,(Hist. Dynast, p. 134—14O.) Roderic of Toledo, (Hist. Arabum, c. 18. p. 33.)Tbeophanes, (Chronograph, p. 356, 357. who speaks of the Abbassides under thenames of Xwfwawrai and M«:j./,f v:' >• and the Bibliotheque of d'Herbelot, in thearticles of Ommiades, Abbauides, Marian, Ibrahim, Saffah, Abou Moi(fm,