OCR Output 18 ESSAY ON THE To the same class belong, Agr. 17, Cum Cerialis quidem alteriussuccessoris curam . . . obruisset, and, G. 25, Cetera domus officiouxor ac liberi exsequuntur. To destroy the attraction by insertinga comma here, may adapt the construction to our ears, but wouldnot exhibit the thought in the light in which it was viewed by theancients. In the same way I read, Hist; II., 27, Quam altiore abinitio repetam, i. e., altius, ab initio. To a similar attraction belong nominatives with infinitives, afterthe example of the Greek and Latin poets : Hist. IV., 55, Socius(esse) jactabat; Hist. IV., 40, Cognitus est confugisse ; Hist. II.,74, Legiones secuturae sperabantur; Hist. IV., 23, Vis et armasatis placebant, i. e., vim et arma satis fore placebat; and, H., 76,Ipse qui suadet considerandus est adjiciatne, etc. Agr. 43, hasbeen correctly restored, Momenta ipsa deficientis . . . nunciataconstabant; Hist. I., 84, Muta ista et inanima intercidere ac re-.parari promiscua sunt. Of the same class the following is a very common specimen:Hist. II., 82, Sufficere videbatur . . . pars copiarum et dux Mucia-nus et Vespasiam nomen et nihil arduum fatis, i. e., et ouod nihilarduum esset fatis; Hist. V., 21, Obstitit formido et remiges peralia militiae munia dispersi. 13. Thus far I have examined those sources of brevity whichmay be referred to the established rules of grammar. There areother examples which cannot be explained under a grammatical term.For example, sometimes the narrative hastens forward so rapidly thatit includes two different events in the same expression: Hist. I., 46,Laco praefectus tanquam in insulam seponeretur ab evocato quernad caedem ejus Otho praemiserat confossus; Ann. XVI., 13, Quidum assident, dum deflentis saepe eodem rogo cremabantur. Inthe latter, the state of disease, and in the former, the act of goingforth, which were intermediate, are passed by in silence. AddHist. III., 29. Also Hist. II., 68, is obscure for the same reason:Ludicro initio, ni numerus caesorum invidiam Vitellio (MS. bello)auxisset. For the primary idea, ni numerus caesorum magnusfuisset, lurks concealed as it were in a single word. And Tacitusquite often did not condescend to relate those things the knowledgeof which was necessary for clearly understanding the order of events,provided that readers, sufficiently attentive and discerning, couldfollow him by their own judgment or sagacity. Thus in Hist. I., 77,it is said that when Otho assigned the consulship to Vopiscus, pleri-que Viennensium honori datum interprelabantur, where the reasonfor such a construction cannot be clearly seen, unless we decide thatVopiscus was an inhabitant of Vienna. Yet that fact is nowhere