OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 377 the Julian law, or the censors of 668, or Sulla, that first 8ti.arranged the details, cannot be determined: the intrustingof the censorial functions to the duumviri seems indeed tohave been introduced after the analogy of the Sullau ordi­nance superseding the censorship, but may be equally wellreferred to the primitive Latin constitution to which thecensorship was unknown. In any case this municipal con­stitution—inserted in, and subordinate to, the state proper—is one of the most remarkable and momentous products ofthe Sullan period, and of the life of the Roman state gene­rally. Antiquity was certainly as little able to dovetail thecity into the state as to develop of itself representative govern­ment and other great principles of our modern state-life;but it carried its political development up to those limits atwhich it outgrows and bursts its assigned dimensions, andthis was the case especially with Rome, which in every re­spect stands on the line of separation between the old andthe new intellectual worlds. In the Sullan constitution thecollective assembly and the urban character of the common­wealth of Rome on the one hand vanished almost into ameaningless form; the community subsisting within thestate on the other hand was completely developed in theItalian munieipium. Down to the name, which in such casesno doubt is the half of the matter, this last constitution ofthe free republic carried out the representative system and theidea of the state resting on the basis of the municipalities. The municipal system in the provinces was not alteredby this movement; the municipal authorities of the non-freetowns remained, on the contrary, special exceptions apart,confined to administration and police, from which no doubt acertain jurisdiction, over slaves guilty of crimes for example,could not be separated. —- Such was the constitution which Lucius Cornelius Sulla Impressiongave to the commonwealth of Rome. The senate and eques- produced bytrian order, the burgesses and proletariate, Italians and pro-the Sul1™vincials, accepted it as it was dictated to them by the tirof""regent, if not without grumbling, at any rate without re­belling: not so the Sullan officers. The Roman army had Oppositiontotally changed its character. It had certainly been ren- of thedered by the Marian reform more ready for action and more officers-militarily useful than when it did not fight before the wallsof Numantia; but it had at the same time been convertedfrom a burgess-force into a set of mercenaries who showed