OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 485 pealed their tactics in a field of battle,1" and the event ofthe day declared to the world, that the Persians were notinvincible, and that a hero was invested with the purple.,Strong in victory and fame, Heraclius boldly ascendedthe heights of mount Taurus, directed his march throughthe plains of Cappadocia, and established his troops for thewinter season in safe and plentiful quarters on the banksof the river Halys." His soul was superior to the vani­ty of entertaining Constantinople with an imperfect tri­umph: but the presence of the emperor was indispensa­bly required to soothe the restless and rapacious spirit ofthe Avars. Since the days of Scipio and Hannibal, no bolder en- His secondterprise has been attempted than that which Heraclius ^a'Sachieved for the deliverance of the empire." He permit- 624,625-ted the Persians to oppress for a while the provinces, andto insult with impunity the capital of the east; while theRoman emperor explored his perilous way through theBlack sea,p and the mountains of Armenia, penetratedinto the heart of Persia,q and recalled the armies of thegreat king to the defence of their bleeding country;With a select band of five thousand soldiers, Heracliussailed from Constantinople to Trebizond; assembled his m Foggini (Annotat. p. 31.) suspects that the Persians were deceived by the <f>x\-ovj mnfXnyi^m of jElian, (Tactic, c. 48.) an intricate spiral motion of the army. Heobserved, (p. 28.) that the military descriptions of George of Pisidia are transcribedinto the Tactics of the Emperor .Leo. "George of Pisidia, an eye-witness, (Acroas. 2. 122, &c.) described in threeacroaseis or cantos, the first expedition of Heraclius. The poem has been lately(1777) published at Rome; but such vague and declamatory praise is far from cor­responding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi, D'Anville, &c. 0 Theophanes (p. 256.) carries Heraclius swiftly (jiara ra^of) into Armenia. Ni-cephorus, (p. 11.) though he confounds the two expeditions, defines the province ofLazica. Eutychias (Annal. torn. ii. p. 231.) has given the five thousand men, withthe more probable station of Trebizond. P From Constantinople to Trebizond, with a fair wind, four or live days; fromthence to Erzerom, five; to Erivan, twelve ; to Tauris, ten; in all, thirty-two. Suchis the Itinerary of Tavernier, (Voyages, torn. 1. p. 12—56.) who was perfectly con­versant with the roads of Asia. Tournefort, who travelled with a pasha, spent tenor twelve days between Trebizond and Erzerom ; (Voyage du Levant, torn. 3. lettre18.) and Chardin (Voyages, torn. 1. p. 249—254.) gives the more correct distanceof fifty-three parasangs, each of five thousand paces, (what paces ?) between Erivanand Tauris. 1 The expedition of Heraclius into Persia is finely illustrated by M. d'Anville.(Memoires de 1'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. 28. p. 559—573.) He discoversthe situation of Gandzaca, Thebnrma, Dastagerd, &c. with admirable skill and learn­ing; bat the obscure campaign of 624 he passes over in silence.