OCR Output 162 [SOOK V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. an admonition from God not to overlook theIsraelites in such a distress as they were nowin; but to endeavour boldly to regain theirliberty. So when he had procured some toassist him in this dangerous undertaking;(and few they were who, either out of shameat their present circumstances, or out of adesire of changing them, could be prevailedon to assist him:) he first of all destroyedthat garrison which Chushan had set overthem. And when it was perceived that hehad not failed in his first attempt, more of thepeople came to his assistance; so they joinedbattle with the Assyrians, and drove thementirely before them, and compelled them topass over the Euphrates. Hereupon Othniel,who had given such proof of bis valour, re­ceived from the multitude authority to judgethe people. And when he had ruled overthem* forty years, he died. CHAP. IV. OF THE SUBJUGATION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE MOABITES;AND OF THEIR DELIVERANCE FROM SLAVERY BY EHUD;WHO RETAINED THE DOMINION EIGHTY YEARS. WHEN Othniel was dead, the affairs ofthe Israelites fell again into disorder;and while they never payed to God the honourdue to him, nor were obedient to the laws,their afflictions increased; till Eglon,f kingof the Moabites, taking advantage of the dis­orders of their political government, madewar upon them, and overcame them in severalbattles, and made the most courageous tosubmit; and entirely subdued their army, andordered them to pay him tribute. And whenhe had built him a royal palace atj: Jericho,he omitted no method whereby he might dis­tress them; and, indeed, he reduced them toEoverty for|| eighteen years. But when Godad once taken pity on the Israelites, on ac­count of their afflictions, and was moved tocompassion by their supplications, he freedthem from the hard usage they had met with under the Moabitea. And this liberty he pro­cured for them in the following manner: There was a young man of the tribe ofBenjamin, whose name was Ehud, the son ofGera; a man of very great courage in boldundertakings; and of a very strong body, fitfor hard labour, but best skilled in using hisleft hand,§ in which was his whole strength;and he also dwelt at Jericho. Now this manbecame familiar with Eglon, and that bymeans of presents, with which he obtained hisfavour, and insinuated himself into his goodopinion, whereby he was also beloved of thosethat were about the king. Now when on atime, he was bringing presents to the king,and had two servants with him, he put a dag­ger on his right thigh secretly, and went into him. It was then summer time, and themiddle of the day, when the guards were notstrictly on their watch; both because of theheat, and because they were gone to dinner.So the young man, when he had offered hispresents to the king, who then resided in asmall parlour, that stood conveniently to avoidthe heat, fell into discourse with him; forthey were now alone, the king having bid hisattendants leave him, because he had a mindto talk with Ehud. He was now sitting onhis throne; and fear seized upon Ehud, lesthe should miss his stroke, and not give him adeadly wound. So he raised himself up, andsaid he had a dream to impart to him, by thecommand of God. Upon this, the king leapedout of his throne for joy of the dream; soEhud smote him to the heart; and leaving hisdagger in his body, he went out, and shut thedoor after him. Now the king's servantswere very still, as supposing that the king hadcomposed himself to sleep. Hereupon Ehud informed the people ofJericho privately what he had done; and ex­horted them to recover their liberty. Theyheard him gladly, and went to their arms,and sent messengers all over the country, thatshould sound trumpets** of rams' horns; for itwas the custom to call the people together by * From An. 1441 to 1401. t Judg. iii. 12. j It appears by the sacred history Judg. i. 16. iii. 13.tint Eglon's pavilion or palace, was at the city of Palm-trees, as the place where Jericho had stood is called afterits destruction by Joshua; that is, at, or near the demo­lished city. Accordingly Josephus says it was at Jericho;or rather in that fine country of palm-trees, upon or near the same spot of ground on which Jericho had formerly-stood, and on which it was afterwards rebuilt by Hiel, 1Kings xvi. 34. Our other copies, that avoid its propername Jericho, and call it the city of palm-trees only, speakhere more accuratelv than Josephus. II From An. 1401 to 1383. § Jndg. iii. 15. ** Judg. iii. 27