OCR Output 886 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK HK This minister of the decemvir's pleasures, laid bold ofher as she was going into the forum, where schools werekept in a kind of shops,.and calling her his slave, as hav­ing been born of one of his bond-women, desired her tofollow binr immediately., otherwise he would oblige herto do so by force. The poor. girl was struck with amaze­ment, and trembled with fear; but her governess raisinga great cry,. imploring the assistance of the people,brought a great crowd about them.. The names of her father Virginius, and of Iciiius, herintended husband, ware heard' on all sides. Regard tothem brought their acquaintance to the place, and thescandal of the action engaged the most indifferent in herquarrel. This secured her against violence.—The claim­ant then cried out, that there was no occasion for so muchnoise, for force was entirely out of the question with him-,since the usual steps of law were open to him; and im­mediately cited her before the magistrate, whither, bythe advice of those about her, she followed him. When they came to Appius' tribunal, the plaintiff.opened his claim to the judge, in a-story with which hewas previously acquainted, having himself instructed himin the plan or prosecution. He said, that'Virginia wasborn in his house, whence she had been stolen and car­ried to Virginius', where she passed for his daughter.This, he insisted, he would prove, by incontestible evi­dence, to which, were Virginius judge, who had beenthe greatest sufferer, he could have nothing, to object. Inthe mean time, it was but reasonable, that the girl shouldfollow her master. The counsel for the young ladypleaded, that seeing Virginius was ab'roail in the serviceof his country, and might, if he were advised; be presentwithin two days, it was unfair, in his absenee( 10 raiseany dispute about his children; and insisted, that judg­ment should be suspended till Virginius should be pre­sent. And agreeable to the law made by Appius him-self, she should be allowed to continue in the possessionof her freedom, till a definitive sentence in the case; thatbeing a virgin, arrived at maturity, she might not run.the risk.of her honour, before she had lost her liberty.