OCR Output 26 ROMAN EMPIRE. cntals refused to yield, and the Catholics, proud of theirnumbers and of their Latin allies, rejected all terms ofunion or toleration. The patience of the meek Theo-dosius was provoked, and he dissolved in anger thisepiscopal tumult, which at the distance of thirteen cen­turies assumes the venerable aspect of the third ecu­menical council." God is my witness (said the piousprince), that I am not the author of this confusion. Hisprovidence will discern and punish the guilty. Returnto your provinces, and may your private virtues repairthe mischief and scandal of your meeting. They return­ed to their provinces; but the same passions whichhad distracted the synod of Ephesus were diffused overthe eastern world. After three obstinate and equalcampaigns, John of Antioch and Cyril of Alexandriacondescended to explain and embrace: but their seem­ing reunion must be imputed rather to prudence than toreason, to the mutual lassitude rather than to the Chris­tian charity of the patriarchs. victory The Byzantine pontiff had instilled into theA.^431 royal ear a baleful prejudice against the cha-—*35. racter and conduct of his Egyptian rival. Anepistle of menace and invective,b which accompa­nied the summons, accused him as a busy, insolent,and envious priest, who perplexed the simplicity ofthe faith, violated the peace of the church and state,and, by his artful and separate addresses to the wife andsister of Theodosius, presumed to suppose, or to scatter,the seeds of discord in the imperial family. At the sterncommand of his sovereign, Cyril had repaired toEphe­ * See the Acts of the Synod of Ephesus, in the original Greek, and a Latin ver­sion almost contemporary, (Concil. torn. 3. p. 991—1339. with the Synodicon ad-versus Tragaediam Irensi, torn. 4. p. 235—497.) the Ecclesiastical Histories ofSocrates, (lib. 7. c. 34.) and Evagrius, (lib. 1. c. 3—5.) the Breviary of Liberatus,{in Concil. torn. 6. p. 419—459. c. 5, 6.) and the Memoires Eccles. of Tillemont.<torn. 14. p. 377—487.) !l Tn;a^':i (says the emperor in pointed language) TO yt tin crai/rw, xai yj-:-tic,Tats lxxXna-jai; ilU£fCXnxa? .... a; dgaffvrf fac of JUQC TFfHFOvaTtf ^*aXX« il tutpBiMf«... xai irouuXiaf fjuAKn TWTW fywn ttpawfit nffip airXorHraf .... irarrnf/uaXXov i} tips*? . . . . T* Tf ten fXxXwiar, TA TI Tm CaffiXlwv /utXXuy %aifi£tu &w-Xe.-dai, w; cm aunt aftpfMt itifat lulfxijur-t*;. I should be curious to know howmuch Nestorius paid for these expressions so mortifying to his rival.