OCR Output 441 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. Tyranny The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled by Hor-of hil son mouz, or Hormisdas, the eldest or the most favoured ofa.°™579 nis sons- With the kingdoms of Persia and India, he—590. inherited the reputation and example of his father, theservice, in every rank, of his wise and valiant officers, anda general system of administration, harmonized by timeand political wisdom, to promote the happiness of theprince and people. But the royal youth enjoyed a stillmore valuable blessing, the friendship of a sage who hadpresided over his education, and who always preferredthe honour to the interest of his pupil, his interest to hisinclination. In a dispute with the Greek and Indian phi­losophers, Buzurgh had once maintained, that the mostgrievous misfortune of life is old age without the remem­brance of virtue; and our candour will presume that thesame principle compelled him, during three years, to di­rect the councils of the Persian empire. His zeal was re-Warded by the gratitude and docility of Hormouz, whoacknowledged himself more indebted to his preceptorthan to his parent: but when age and labour had im­paired the strength and perhaps the faculties of this pru­dent counsellor, he retired from court, and abandonedthe youthful monarch to his own passions and those ofhis favourites. By the fatal vicissitude of human affairs,the same scenes were renewed at Ctesiphon, which hadbeen exhibited in Rome after the death of Marcus Anto­ninus. The ministers of flattery and corruption, who hadbeen banished by the father, were recalled and cherishedby the son; the disgrace and exile of the friends of Nush­irvan established their tyranny; and virtue was driven bydegrees from the mind of Hormouz, from his palace, andfrom the government of the state. The faithful agents,' Buzurg Mjhir may be considered, in his character and station, as the Seneca"ofthe east; hat his virtues, and perhaps his faalts, are less known than those of the Ro­man, who appears to have been mnch more loquacious. The Persian sage was thoperson who imported from India the game of chess and the fables of Pilpay. Suchhas been the fame of his wisdom and virtues, that the Christians claim him as a be­liever in the gospel; and the Mahometans revere Buzurg as a premature Mussulman.D'Herbelot, Bibliotheqne Orienta-e, p. 218,