OCR Output 498 OSCI. ORTOSPEDA. leading through Bactriana met at this place; hencethe notice in Strabo (/. <•.) of the rj tx BaxTpuivTpittSos. Groskurd has (as apjeurs to ns), on nosufficient ground, identified Ortosnana with the pre­sent Kandahar. If the reading of some of theMSS.of Ptolemj be correct, Kabul may be a corruptionof KdSoupa. It is worthy of note, that in the earlier editionsof Ptolemj (vi. 18. § 3) mention is made of apeople whom he calls KaSnKirat; in the latestof Kobbe (Tauchnitz, 184*1) thp name is changedto BmXjtoi. It is not improbable that Ptolemjhere is sneaking of Kabul, as Lassen has observed.(/W. AUertkturu. vol. i. p. 29.) The three mudsmaj be, the pane by liamitin, that by the //*Wii-Kitxh, and that from Awkrah to Khawar. [V.] ORTOSPEDA. [Oroapbda].OKTY'GIA. [Dklos.]OKTY'GIA. [Stracusb.] ORU'DH (to 'Opov&ia Zp-n, Ptol. vii. 1, §§ 25.36), a chain <>f mountains in India intra Gangem,which were, according to Ptolemy, the source of theriver Tvnna (now Pcnnais). It is difficult now toidentify them with certainty, but Forbiger conjec­tures that they mav be represented bv the presentNdla-MelltL' '[V.] ORYX. [Arcadia, Vol. I. p. 193, a.]OSCA. 1. ("0<T*a, Ptol. ii. 6. § 08), a town ofthe Ilergetes in the N. of Hispania Tarraconentia,on the road from Tarraeo and Uerda to Caesar-augusta (/Cm. Ant. pp. 391, 451), and under thejurtMliction of the last-named city. Pliny alone (iii.3. s. 4) places the Oacenaea in Yescitania, a dis­trict mentioned nowhere else. It was a Romancolony, and had a mint. We learn from Plutarch{Serf. c. 14) that it was a large town, and the placewhere Sertorioj died. It is probably the town calledIh-oscin ('Wto&Kav) by Strabo, in an apparentljcorrupt passage (iii. p. 1 r» 1 j r. Ukert, vol. ii. pt 1.p. 451.) It seems to have possessed silver mines(Lit, xxxiv. 10, 40, xl. 43). unless the u argenturnOscense " here mentioned merely refers to the mintedsilver of the town. Florez, however (iferf. ii. 520),has pointed out the impossibility of one place sup­plying such vast quantities of minted silver as wefind recorded in ancient writers under the terms"nrgentum Oscense," " sicnatum Oscense ;" and isof opinion that Oscense in these phrases meansSpanish, bv a corruption from the national name,Kus-eara. * (Cf. Caen. B.C. i. 60; Veil. Pat. ii.30.) It is the modern Ifuesca in Arragon. (Florez,Meti. ii. p. 513; Seetint, p. 176; Mionnet, i. p. 46,Suppl. i. p. 92; Murray's Handbook of Spain,p. 448.) 2. A town of the Tnrdetani in Hispania liaetira,which some have identified with It tie scar, butwhich Ukert (vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 370) thinks must besought to the \V. of that place. (Ptol. ii. 4. § 12;Plin. ii. 1. s. 3.) The pretended coins of this townare not genuine. (Florez, Med. I. c.; Sestini, p. 78;Mionnet, i. p. 43, SoppL i. p. 40; Sestini, p. 78;Ukert, I.e.) [T. H. D.] COIN OF OSCA. OSCELA. [Lkpoxtti.] OSCI or OPICI (in Greek always "Orast: taroriginal form of the name was Greets, *hki anstill used by Ennitts, up. Fest. t. r. p. 198). iMB*of Central Italy, who at a very early penal tvfmto have been spread over a considerable part of tapeninsula. So far as we can ascertain thev tenthoriginal occupants, at the earliest time of whkaahave anything like a definite account, of the crtnpart of Italy, from Campania and the boriaHLatinm to the Adriatic; while on the S. thet djoined the Oenotrians, whom there is pood r-artlregard as a Pelaagic tribe. Throughout thiscMthey were subsequently conquered and rrtaei1subjection by tribes called Sabines or Sabellii»,tjissued from the lofty mountain tracts of the A|Cnines N. of the territory then occupied by tbeOaaJThe relation between the Sabellians and the (an]is very obscure; but it is provide that thewere comparatively few in number, and sd*olanguage of the conquered people, as we kntlie language both of the Ciinpanians and Sin later times was Oscan. (Liv. x. 20.) Vtafclremained unmixed, or had been modifieddegree by the language of the Sabellians, whanjjprobably a cognate dialect, we have no ndetermining, as alt our existing monumentslanguage are of a date long suose^uent to 1bellian conquest. The ethnical affinitiesOscans, and their relations to the SabellianMraces of Central Italy, have been already caiunder the article Jtaua: it only remains tafew words concerning what is known of tatlanguage. Niebuhr has justly remarked that **thtlanguage is by no means an in explicablelike the Etruscan. Had a single book iipreserved, we should be perfectly able todout of itself." (Nieb. vol. i. p. 68.) Evenlimited means actually at our command »•in great part to translate the extant I; this language, few and mostly brief as Iand though the meaning of many wordsuncertain or unknown, we are able to Idistinct conclusions concerning the general onjand affinities of the language. Thecloeelj connected with the Latin; notLatin was with the Greek and otherthe great Indo-Teutonic family. Mthe same original stock, but as connateallied dialects. This affinity may be tont the grammatical forms and in^*-tna»-langnage not less than in the vocabulary elwords. The Latin was, however, in alla composite language, derived from athis "-can element with one more clowly Ithe Greek, or of Pelasgic origin (XatutVwhile the 0»can doubtless represents the ICentral Italy in its more unmixed firm,cases the older and rnder specimens ofretain Oscan forms, which were laid aamore refined stages of the language: *termination of the ablatice in flj, which Idthe Duilian and other old Latin in^rrrpjaiappears to have been universal in Osoaav iThe few notices of Oscan words whichpreserved to us by Latin writers, as Veal&c, are of comparatively little importance. .knowledge of the langnage is derivr-d fraeinscriptions; of which the three niT.pert1. the Tabula Bantina, a bronze table: fam