OCR Output an. 1492.] 135 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tempt of us; reform thyself, and act morewisely for the time to come. Considering thatGod is displeased with those that are inso­lent towards their parents; because he ishimself the Father of the whole race of man­kind; and seems to bear part of that disho­nour which falls upon those that have thesame name, when they do not meet with duereturns from their children. And on such thelaw inflicts inexorable punishment; of whichpunishment mayst thou never have the expe­rience!" Now if the insolence of young menbe thus cured, let them escape the reproachwhich their former errors deserved; for bythis means the lawgiver will appear to begood, and parents happy, while they neverbehold either a son or a daughter brought topunishment. But if it happen that thesewords, and the instructions conveyed bythem, in order to reclaim the man, appear tobe useless; then the offender renders the lawan implacable enemy to the insolence he hasoffered his parents. Let him therefore be*brought forth, by these very parents, out ofthe city, with a multitude following him; andlet him be stoned ;f and when he has con­tinued there for one whole day, that all thepeople may see him, let him be buried in thenight. And thus it is that we bury all whomthe laws condemn to die, upon any accountwhatsoever. Let our enemies that fall inbattle be also buried; nor let any one deadbody lie above ground, or suffer a punishmentbeyond what justice requires. Let no one lend to any of the Hebrewsupon usury, neither usury of what is eaten, orwhat is drank.J For it is not just to makeadvantage of the misfortunes of one of thyown countrymen; but when thou hast admi­nistered to his necessities, think it thy gain,if thou obtainest his gratitude to thee; andwithal that reward, which will come to theefrom God, for thy humanity towards him. Those who have borrowed either silver, orany sort of fruits, whether dry or wet; (Imean this, when the Jewish affairs shall bythe blessing of God be to their own mind;) letthe borrowers bring them again, and restorethem with pleasure to those who lent them; * See Herod the Great insisting on the execution of thislaw, with relation to two of his own sous, before the judgesat Berytus. t Deut. xxi. 21 laying them up, as it were, in their own trea­suries, and justly expecting to receive themthence, if they shall want them again. But ifthey be without shame, and do not restore it,let not the lender go to the borrower's house,))and take a pledge himself, before judgmentbe given concerning it; but let him requirethe pledge, and let the debtor bring it of him­self, without the least opposition to him thatcomes upon him under the protection of thelaw. And if he that gave the pledge be rich,let the creditor retain it, till what ne lent bepaid him again; but if he be poor, let him thattakes it return it before the going down of thesun; especially if the pledge be a garment,that the debtor may have it for a covering inhis sleep, God himself naturally shewingmercy to the poor. It is also not lawful totake a mill-stone, nor any utensil thereto be­longing, for a pledge; that the debtors maynot be deprived of instruments to get theirfood withal, and lest they should be undoneby their necessity. Let death be the punishment for stealing aman;§ but he that hath purloined gold orsilver, let him pay double. If any one kill aman that is stealing something out of hishouse, let him be esteemed guiltless; althoughthe man were only breaking in at the wall.Let him that hath stolen cattle pay fourfoldwhat is lost, excepting the case of an ox; forwhich let the thief pay fivefold. Let him thatis so poor that he cannot pay what mulct islaid upon him, be his servant to whom he wasadjudged to pay it. If any one be sold to one of his own nation,let him serve him six years; and on the se­venth let him go free.** But if he have a sonby a woman servant, in his purchaser's house;and if on account of his good will to his mas­ter, and his natural affection to his wife andchildren, he will be his servant still, let himbe set free only at the coming of the year ofJubilee, which is the fiftieth year; and let himthen take away with him his wife and chil­dren, and let them be free also. If any one find gold or silver in the road,let him enquire after him that lost it, andmake proclamation of the place where he I Deut. xxiii. 19.Il Deut. xxiv. 10.§ Exod. xxi. 16.** Deut. xv. 12.