OCR Output Chap. I. 'ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 117 first suspected that some one of the conspirators had betrayedhim, and he was caught, but at length perceived that it was byway of exhortation. Whether somebody *, that was consciousof what he was about, gave a signal for his encouragement, orwhether it were "God himself, who looks upon the actions ofmen, that encouraged him to go on boldly in his design, is uncer­tain. The plot was now co'mmunicated to a great many, andthey were all in their armour ; sAme of the conspirators beingsenators, and some of the equestrian order, and as many of thesoldiery as were made acquainted with it; for there was not oneof them who would not reckdn it a part of his happiness to killCaius, and on that account they were all very zealous in the af­fair, by what means soever any one could come at it, that hemight not be behind-hand in these virtuous designs, but mightbe ready with all his alacrity or power, both by words and ac­tions, to complete this slaughter of a tyrant. And besides theseCallistus also, who was a freed-man of Caius, and was the onlyman that had arrived at the greatest degree of power under him ;such a power, indeed, as was in a manner equal to the power ofthe tyrant himself, by the dread that all men had of him, and bythe great'riches he had acquired ; for he took bribes most plen-teously, and committed injuries without bounds, and was more ex-travagant in the use df his power in unjust proceedings than anypther. He also'knew the disposition of Caius to be implacable,and never to be turned from what he had resolved on. He hadwithal many other reasons why he thought himself in danger,and the vastness of his wealth was not one of the least of them :on which account he privately ingratiated himself with Claudius,and transferred his courtship to him, out of this hope, that incase, upon the removal of Caius, the government should cometo him, his interest in such changes should lay a foundation forhis preserving his dignity under him, since he laid in before.handa stock of merit, and did Claudius good offices in his promotion.He had also the boldness to pretend, that lie had been persuadedto make away Claudius-, by poisoning him, but had still inventedten thousand excuses for delaying to do it. But it seems pro­bable to me, that Callistus only counterfeited this, in order to in­gratiate himself with Claudius ; for, if Caius had been in ear­nest resolved to take off Claudius, he would not have admittedof Callistus's excuses, nor would Callistus, if he had-been en­joined to do such an act as was desired by Caius, have put it off,nor, if he had disobeyed those injunctions of his master, had he e-scaped immediate punishment; while Claudius was preserved from , * Just such a voice as this is related to be, came, ami from an unknown ori­ginal also, to the famous'Polycarp, as he was going to martyrdom, bidding him*' play the'man ;" as the church of Smyrna assures us in their account of thathis mart) rdom, sect.'- 9.