OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXXII. 393 ger hoping to decide the matter by a single battle, hebegan again to lay waste the lands, burn the houses,and storm the villages. At this time Clastidium wasburned, and the legions were led thence against theIlvatian Ligurians, who alone refused to submit. Thatstate also, on learning that the Insubrians had beendefeated in battle, and the Boians so terrified that theyhad not dared to risk an engagement, made a submis­sion. Letters from the consuls, containing accountsof their successes, came from Gaul to Rome at thesame time. Marcus Sergius, city pretor, read themin the senate, and afterwards, by direction of theFathers, in an assembly of the people; on which asupplication, of four days' continuance, was decreed.■—By this time winter had begun. 32. During the winter, while Titus Quintius, afterthe reduction of Elatia, had his troops cantoned inPhocis and Locris, a violent dissension broke out atOpus. One faction invited to their assistance thejEtolians, who were nearest at hand; the other theRomans. The jEtolians arrived first; but the otherparty, which was the more powerful, refused them ad­mittance, and, despatching a courier to the Romangeneral, held the citadel until he arrived. The citadelwas possessed by a garrison belonging to the king,and they could not be prevailed on to give it up, eitherby the threats of the people of Opus, or by the com­mands of the Roman consul. What prevented theirbeing immediately attacked was the arrival of an en­voy from the king, to solicit the appointing of a timeand place for a conference. This request was readilycomplied with; not that Quintius did not wish to seewar concluded under his own auspices, partly byarms, and partly by negotiation: for he knew notyet whether one of the new consuls would be sent totake the government in his room, or whether heshould be continued in the command; a point whichhe had charged his friends and relations to labor withall their might. But he thought that a conferencewould answer this purpose: that it would put it in his