OCR Output 074 SIBARIA.the junction of the Hy das pes and Acesines, en­countered by Alexander in his attempt to invadeIndia. They are described as a rude, warlike people,armed only with clubs for defensive weapon*. TheGreeks noticed this use of the club, and that thepeople were in the habit of branding the representa­tion of a club on the backs of their cattle, and thatthey were clothed in the skins of wild animal*.From these facts they inferred that they must bedescendants of Hercules. There can be doubt thatthey are the same race as are called Sobii inCattius (ix. 4. § 2). A tribe of similar character,called Sittpnl or Siiipurft, still exists in that country,who use the club, and wear the skins of goats torclothing. (Ritter, vii. p. 279, v. p. 467; Boblen,Alte-ftulien. i. p. 208.) It is possible that theyhave derived their name from the pod Siva. [V.] SIBA'RIA, a town of the Vettones in HiapaniaTarraeniieir-is, X. of Sahnantiea, and on the roadfrom Kinerita to Caesaraugusta. {/tin. A nt. p.4-'t4.) Variously identified with Santiz, Fvente deSabwra, Penttu$end$, and Zamoewa, [T. H. I>.] SIBDA (Ziefia: Kth. SnSoaeoy, ZiGStT-ns), aplace in Caria, and one of the six towns which werepi veil by Alexander the (Ireat to Ada, a daughter ofking Hecatomnus of Halicamassus, and thus becamesubject to Halicamassus. (Steph. B. s. r.; 1*1 in. v.29.) Its exact site cannot be ascertained. [L. S.] SIBERE'NA (2t€tp7]vri: Sta Stveri*a\ a town ofBrnttiam situated in the mountains about 15 milesNW. ofCrotona. The name is mentioned only byStephanus of Byzantium (&. p.), who calls it anOenotrian city, but it is probable that it is the sameplace which is now called Santa Stverimt. an sppel-lation that is already noticed by Constantino Por-phyrogenitos in the tenth century. It was at thattime apparently a place of importance, hut is nowmuch decayed. (Const, Porph. de Adin, Imp. ii. 1U;Holsten. Obi. in Steph. Byt, s.»;.) [E. H. B.] SI'liKIMS (2tt«jM>)< a river of Galatia, a tri-butary of the Sangarius; it flowed in a south­western direction, and joined the main river near thelittle town of Syceon, not far from Juliopolis.(Procop. dc A'-d. v. 4.) I'ntcopius al-o mentionsthat this river frequently overflowed its banks, a factwhich is perhaps alluded to in the name of a stationcalled Ilyerou I'otamon, about 13 miles east of Julio-jNtlis {It. Uterus, p 574); though it is possible alsothat the name may be misspelt for Hieron Potamoo,which is only another name for the Hieras of Pliny(v. 43), and unquestionably identical with the Siberiswhich now bears the name of Kirtnir. [I.. S.] SIBUZA'TES, an Aquitanian people, who sub­mitted t<» P. Craseus, Caesar's legatus in u. C 56.(Ji. G. iii. 27.) There are many varieties in themanuscript readings of this name. It is merely byconjecture founded on resemblance of name, thatthey have been placed about Sauhusse or Sobusse,on the Adour, between Aquae Tsrbellicae (Dax)and Bayonne. [G. L.] SIBYLLA'TES, one of the Aquitanian tribesmentioned by Pliny (iv. 10). D'Anville conjecturesthat the name is preserved in that of the VallisSubola, mentioned by Fredegarius. He argues thatthey cannot be the same people as the Sibusateswho submitted to I*. Crassus, because Caesar speaksof a few of the remotest Aquitanian tribes which didnot submit to the Roman general, trusting to theapproaching winter season (Zf. (J. iii. 27); from whichremark we may infer that these remotest tribes werein the valleys of the Pyrenees. "The people of the SICAMB valley of SouU might derivesituation, which is shut hand the high part of Beam SIBYBTU& [Sybiut. SICAMBRI, SYCAMKGAMBRI.or SUGAMBBI<or 'S.oLKa.^poi). a powerfulin the time of Caesar the eiand extending from the 6generally assumed that th:from the little river Sirg, wa little below Bonn, and ducalled Sega, Segaha, but iancient writer; this assuin]only a probable conjecture, Uthat in the time of Caesartnorth and south of the Sift,Ubii. (Caes. B. G. iv. 16pp. 290. 291; Dion Cass20, 32, 33, 3G.) When t.were defeated by Caesar, thtook refuge in the countitook them under their prutmanded their surrender; abuilt his famous bridge aterror into the Germans. Tnot wait for his arrival, batpetes and Tencteri, qui Hewithdrew into forests sfl|whither Caesar neither woiA few years later, B.C. 51the Kburones, we rind Sicaarmy of Caesar on the leinearly defeating the Komjuhad been in another part tlegions. The Scambri weacross the Khine. In b. ithe Usipetes and Tencteri.,gica, and M.! •. wh<barians, sustained a serioutack which was made a fe\by Drusua, who pursued thcountry. After the withdiSicambri formed a confederamen against the common cwho had received the cotright bank of the Rhine,Sicambri made wax upontheir own territory unprotthrough it into the interiordeath of Drama, Tiberiusof his plans against Germoffered a more vigorous resibut in the end they wen40.000 Sicambri and SueGaul, where as subjects ofmoots between the lowerthe Rhine. In that coiformed an important partracy of the Franks. Thostransplanted into Guul seenthe hills of Mons lietico,are not mentioned in histttime of Ptolemy (ii. 11. § |of as neighbours of the Brcambri are described as howe hear nothing of towmseem in fact to have livedfarms. (Caes. & G. jr.26, ir. 47, xii. 39; Suet..vii. 9; Oros. vi. 21; Hon