OCR Output 8 ESSAY ON THE from his own natural disposition, but he adapted the style of his nar­rative to the taste of his age. For, as is usually the case in a timeof great moral declension, not only lassitude and listlessness, butalso, at the same time, a sort of morbid desire for haste, had takenpossession of the spirits of men; while those qualities which are aproper mean between them—calmness of spirit and a healthy activity—are the characteristic of but few. Hence what was formerly con­sidered simplicity and dignified repose, then began to appear dull,spiritless and insipid. Tacitus was therefore impelled at the sametime by his own genius, and by the taste of his age, to a hurried styleof expression. But rapidity is opposed to dignity,—a grace which cannot be sepa­rated from equability and moderation. And since dignity, in ancienttimes, was the peculiar characteristic and requisite of a good history,so skill was necessary in the later historians to temper rapidity withdignity. To accomplish this purpose, Tacitus employed the utmostdiligence in producing an ornamented diction. Now since I must briefly treat of the style of Tacitus, I will firstshow by what arts, nay, even by what artifices, he attained to thatbrevity which we admire as appropriate and peculiar to this writer;secondly, by what means he made his style at the same time dignifiedand beautiful.* 2. The conciseness of Tacitus is proverbial. But an incorrectnotion has prevailed among some, viz. that this consists mostly in thebrevity of single expressions, such as resemble the responses oforacles. And this style of writing does indeed prevail in the treatiseon Germany, inasmuch as it is best adapted to description; and whileJohn Mueller and others, who seek a reputation for the same, imitateit, they think they are rivalling Tacitus. But, on the contrary, theacute judgment and the consummate skill of this writer are seen in thisvery thing, that he adopted this style, so rare, only in treating thosesubjects, the nature of which demanded it, while in other connectionshe is scarcely less fond of full and rounded periods, not being inferior,in this respect, to Cicero and Livy. At the commencement of theAnnals, he hastens, in a series of very brief propositions, to premisewhatever was important, from which he passes to a very full andbrilliant period, and thus introduces the history itself, as if he wouldshow the difference between the preface and the real history, by asudden change of diction. The orations, inserted in the narrative,consist, according to the character of the speaker, sometimes of con- * I have been assisted much in this Essay by the Prolegomena of G. Boetticherto the Lexicon on Tacitus, Betiir., 1830; and by the Excursus ad Tac. Agricolamof C. L. Roth, Norimb. 1833.