OCR Output SOMA. ROMA. 845 rio/r to this period, plays were performed ini aitc thauns, erected lor the occasion. Some ofjew limporarj buildings were constructed withxaiapiit magnificence, especially that of M.iiua Scaurus in n. c. 59, a description of whichipnsbjPliny (xxxvi. 24.8. 7). An attempt,j ilitli »e hare before alloded, was indeed made■itf cflbor Cassius, b. c. 154, to erect a stonejaln mr the Lupercal, which wag defeated byU ririd oonlity of Scipio Kasica (Veil. Pat. i. I, ViL Max. ii. 4. 5 2; Liv. F.piL xlviii.; Oros. iv.:A i<oi deal of tins old Roman feeling remainedI taw tine of l'ompey; and in order to overcome, ortar u mde it, he dedicated a temple to Venusmm do the summit of his theatre, to which • no of seats appeared to form an ascent (Tac.m. nr. JO: Tert. oV Sptct. 10; Plin. viii.. GeHiu places the dedication of the theatre in > lii.il cufouUhip of Pumpey, w hich is at variance.3 tot other authorities (A'. A. x. 1). We havetea it* its situation in a preceding section, andil nfcf the reader who desires any further in-bsimi on this head to Canina (Indicaz. p. 368, hat bestowed mnch labour in investigatingvr.Ma (I this building. There is great dis-aavr in the accounts of the number of specta-I rtich this theatre was capable of accommo-3; According to Pliny, in whose MSS. thereto nriauVns. it held 40,000 persons (xxxvi.a. '): and the account of Tacitus of the visit•* i-rnnsn ambassadors seems to indicate a large»W(" Intravere Pompeii theatrum, quo magni-mtj [opuli viserent," Ann. xiii. 54). Yet oneat radices of the Notitia assigns to it onlyW atata, and the Curiotum still fewer, or**' It «ai called Uuatrum lapitkum, or mar-« frum tlie material of which it was bnilt;*. homer, dad not suffice to protect it from the(W of fine. The teena was destroyed in the'■( Iiwui, and rededicated by Claudius (Tac.'ii Tt; Dion Cass. lx. 6). The theatre wasI a. the fire under Titus, and again in the reignbat il must have been restored on both>»•. ai it is mentioned by Ammianus Mar­ia unong the objects most worthy of notice innut of the visit of Constantins II. (xvi. 10).or- from the Catalogut Jmperatorum, that itrrpaired by Diocletian and Maximian: and ■ also the object of the care of Theodoric■at I'mr ,r. 51). • TautaTBK or Baltics, dedicated in B.C. 12 ■ W; Dion Cass, liv. 25), was A buildingata ha* importance, and but few accountshwn preserved of it; yet it must have lasted period, as it is recorded in the Notitia.dnaj to the Cvryosian it accommodated 11,600a. 'IiiUt the MSS. of the Notitia mention0 sad 8088. a Tsnunci-ai Mabcelxj was begun by CaesarCeia. xliai. 49), and dedicated by Augustus, II. lu the memory of his nephew, Marcellus.kjaanjr.; Saet. Aug. 29; Dion Cass. liv. 26.)>"* already mentioned its situation in the ■ t-+*oriuin; and very considerable remainsf t:ij to be seen in the Piazza Montanara.few are now occupied by dirty workshops. ■ tt aeon to have enjoyed so much celebrity ■ '•.'ft tneatre. According to the Curiomm > apabtt of accommodating 20.000 spectators,•aaa* ni restored by Vespasian (Suet. Ve.<p. n] Lampridios mentions that Alexander Severus contemplated a renovation of the theatre{Alex. 44.) #H—H H~+ THEATRE OF MARCEIXL'S, These were the three Koman theatres, properly socalled (Ov. Tr. iii. 12. 24.):— "I'roque tribus resonant tcrna theatra foris."Some of the MSS. of the Notitia mention fourtheatres, including, of course, the Odei.'M, whichwas a roofed theatre, intended for musical per*formances. According to the most trustworthyaccounts, it was built by Dumitian, to be used inthe musical contests of the Capitoline frames whichhe instituted (Suet. /km. 4; Cassiod. Chron.p. 197, Rone): and when Dion Cassius (lxix. 4)ascribes it to Trajan, we may perhaps assume thatit was finished or perfected by him. Nero appearsto have first introduced musical contests (Tac. Ann.xiv. 20). but the theatre in which they were heldwas probably a temporary one. The Odeum wascapable of holding 10,04)0 or 12,000 persons. Itis mentioned by Ammianus Marcel linos (xvi. 10). The Amphitheatre ok Statiuis Taircswas the first permanent building of that kind erectedat Rome, After the chariot races, the gladiatorial com­bats were the most favourite spectacle of the Romans;yet it was long before any peculiar building wasappropriated to them. We have already relatedthat the first gladiators were exhibited in the ForumBoarium in n.c.264; and & u br.em ten t lythe** combatstook place either in the circus or in tlie ForumRomanum; yet neither of these places was well| adapted for such an exhibition. The former was