OCR Output CHAP. 24. ROMAN HISTORY. i 4S7 what was due to the god, was no easy matter. At lastthey had recourse to an expedient, which seemed to beleast troublesome. They ordered all those who wishedto have their consciences clear with respect to this vow,and to insure the safety of then families, to make a fairand candid estimate of the booty they had obtained,and lodge the tenth pair of that value in the public trea­sury, that it might be formed into a present of pure gold,worthy the august temple, and majesty of that god forsvhom it was mtended, and suitable to the grandeur ofthe Roman people. This contribution added to thepeople's disgust at Camillas. .In the mean time .ambassadors came from the Volscito sue. for peace, which was granted them, not out of*respect to their merit, but to give the people some re-spite, from war, with which they had been so long and somuch harassed. * CHAP. XXIV. Inroltment for a Colony to be planted in the Volscian ter­ritory. Motion for transferring it to Veii. L.FTER the reduction of Veii, six military tribuneswith consular power, were elected for the followingyear, the two P. P. Corne'ii, Cossus, and Scipio, M.Valerius Maximus, a second, Creso Fabius Maximus, athird, L. Furius Medullinus, a fifth, and Q. Servilius, athird time. Whilst the war with.the Falisci fell by lotto the Cornelii, that with the Capenates, to Valerius andServilius, they made no attempt upon their cities bystorm, or blockade, contenting themselves with ravagingthe country, and carrying off their implements of hus­bandry. JSot one fruit-tree nor.stalk of corn was left inthe country. This distress humbled the Capenates.They sued for peace and obtained it. The war with the Falisci was carried on. At Rome,during these transactions, there were many seditions;to appease which, they had determined to send a colonyinto the country of the Volsci, for which 3000 Romancitizens were enrolled. The three commissioners chosento conduct this business, had assigned to each planterthree seven-twelfths Roman acres. The people began