OCR Output C.X.] THE RIVER JORDAN. 67 country adjoining to it. Its breadth is forty furlongs; andits length one hundred and forty; its waters are sweet, andvery agreeable for drinking, for they are finer than the thickwaters of other fens: the lake is also pure, and on every sideends directly at the shores and at the sand: it is also of atemperate nature when you draw it up, and of a more gentlenature than river or fountain water, and yet always coolerthan one would expect in so diffuse a place as this is : nowwhen this water is kept in the open air, it is as cold as thatsnow which the country people are accustomed to make bynight in summer. There are several kinds of fish in it,different both to the taste and the sight from those elsewhere.It is divided into two parts by the river Jordan. NowPanium is thought to be the fountain of Jordan, but in realityit is carried thither after an occult manner from the placecalled Phiala: this place lies as you go up to Trachonitis,and is a hundred and twenty furlongs from Caesarea, and isnot far out of the road on the right hand; and, indeed, ithath its name of Phiala [vial or bowl] very justly, from theroundness of its circumference, as being round like a wheel;its water continues always up to its edges, without eithersinking or running over. And as this origin of Jordan wasformerly not known, it was discovered so to be when Philipwas tetrarch of Trachonitis; for he had chaff thrown intoPhiala, and it was found at Panium, where the ancientsthought the fountain-head of the river was, whither it hadbeen, therefore, carried [by the waters.] As for Paniumitself, its natural beauty had been improved by the royalliberality of Agrippa, and adorned at his expenses. NowJordan's visible stream arises from this cavern, and dividesthe marshes and fens of the lake Semechonitis; and when ithath run another hundred and twenty furlongs, it firstpasses by the city Julias, and then passes through the middleof the lake Gennesareth; after which it runs a long way overa desert, and then makes its exit into the lake Asphaltitis. 8. The country also that lies over against this lake haththe same name of Gennesareth; its nature is wonderful aswell as its beauty; its soil is so fruitful that all sorts of trees