OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SOLHCIAN REVOLUTION. 235 accumulating for centuries; the Roman magistrates weretorn to pieces by the multitude in the theatre itself, andimmediately, as if it were their intention by a fearful out­rage to cut off every chance of reconciliation, the gates wereclosed by command, of the magistracy, all the Romans re­siding in Asculum were put to death, and their property wasplundered. The revolt ran through the peninsula like theflame through the steppe. The brave and numerous people Marsiansof the Marsians took the lead, in connection with the small anu Sabel-but hardy confederacies in the Abruzzi—the Paelignians, anS,Marrucinians, Frentanians, and Vestinians. The brave andsagacious Quintus Silo, already mentioned, was here the soulof the movement. The Marsians were the first formallyto declare against the Romans, whence the war retainedafterwards the name of the Marsian war. The example thus Central andgiven was followed by the Samnite communities, and gene-- Southernrally by the mass of the communities from the Liris and the y'Abruzzi down to Calabria and Apulia; so that all Centraland Southern Italy was soon in arms against Rome. The Etruscans and Umbrians on the other hand held by ItaliansEome, as they had already taken part with the equites friendlJ't0against Drusus (P. 224). It is a significant fact, that in Kome*these regions the landed and moneyed aristocracy had fromancient times preponderated and the middle-class had totallydisappeared, whereas among and near the Abruzzi the farmer-class had preserved its purity and vigour better than any­where else in Italy: it was from the farmers accordinglyand the middle class in general that the revolt substantiallyproceeded, whereas the municipal aristocracy still went handin hand with the government of the capital. This alsoreadily explains the fact, that there were m the insurgentdistricts isolated communities, and in the insurgent commu­nities minorities, adhering to the Roman alliance ; the Vesti-nian town Pinna, for instance, sustained a severe siege forEome, and a corps of loyalists that was formed in the Hir-pinian country under Minatius Magius of Mclttaum supportedthe Eoman operations in Campania. Lastly, there adheredto Rome the allied communities optimi juris—in CampaniaNola and Nuceria and the Greek maritime towns Nea-polis and Rhegium, and in like manner at least most ofthe Latin colonies, such as Alba and iEsernia—just as inthe Hannibalic war the Latin and Greek towns on thewhole had taken part with, and the Sabellian towns against,