OCR Output B. III. YEAR V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427. 275 old alliance and their Ionic descent, to send them a succourof shipping: For the Syracusans had now blocked them upboth by land and sea. The Athenians immediately sent one,giving out that they were bound in duty to take this step ; buttheir real motive was, to prevent the exportation of cornfrom thence to Peloponnesus, and also to sound the possibilityof bringing Sicily into their own subjection. Their squad­ron therefore, arriving at Rhegium on the Italian shore, sup­ported their allies in the present war; and in this the sum­mer ended. In the beginning of the winter, the plague broke out a se­cond time at Athens, not that during this whole interval oftime it had wholly ceased, though its rage had very muchabated. But now the mortality began again and continuednot less than a year; but the former had raged for the spaceof two. There was nothing which lay upon the Athenians sohard as this, or so much impaired their strength. It appear­ed from the muster-rolls, that there perished four thousandand four hundred of those citizens who wore the heavy-ar­mour, and three hundred of the horsemen. The number ofthe lower people that died was not to be computed. Therehappened at the same time many earthquakes : at Athens ;in Eubcca; amongst the Boeotians, and especially at theBoeotian Orchomenus. The same winter, the Athenians and Rhegians, on thecoast of Sicily, form an expedition with thirty sail, againstthose which are called the isles of iEolus. This was notfeasible in the summer-season, for want of water. These islesare inhabited by the Lipareans, who were a colony from Cni-dus. Their residence is chiefly in one of them called Lipare,though by no means large. They go from hence to the til­lage of the others, Didyme and Strongyle and Hiera. It this occasion. It is a step, which draws great consequences after it.—Thucydides in the sequel will open all the plan, and give an exact detail ofthe operations of this new war, into which the Athenians are beginning toembark.