OCR Output 74 THE PELOPONMESIAN WAR. nity, in concert with the neighbouring Thuriafce and Ethe-ans, to revolt and seize Ithome, Most of the Helots weredescendants of the ancient Messenians then reduced toslavery, and on this account all of them in general werecalled Messenians. This war against the revolters in Ithomegave full employ to the Lacedaemonians. And the Thasians,after holding out three years blockade, were forced to surren­der upon terms to the Athenians :.—They were " to level theirwalls, to give up their shipping, to pay the whole arrear oftheir tribute, to advance it punctually for the future, and toquit all pretensions to the continent and the mines." The Lacedaemonians, as their war against the rebels inIthome ran out into a length of time, demanded the assist­ance of their allies, and amongst others of the Athenians,No small number of these were sent to their aid, under thecommand of Cimon. The demand of assistance from themwas principally owing to the reputation they then were in fortheir superior skill in the methods of approaching and at­tacking walls. The long continuance of the siege convincedthem of the necessity of such methods, though they wouldfain have taken it by storm. The first open enmity betweenthe Lacedaemonians and Athenians broke out from this expe­dition. For the Lacedaemonians, when the place could notbe carried by storm, growing jealous of the daring and in­novating temper of the Athenians, and regarding them asaliens, lest by a longer stay they might be tampering with masters with great severity, and often with the utmost barbarity; at theircaprice, or sometimes for reasons of state, they were wantonly put to deathor inhumanly butchered. There is a remarkable instance of the latter inthe fourth book of this history. According to Plutarch it was a commonsaying in Greece, That a freeman at Sparta was the freest, and a slave thegreatest slave in the world.—Tims miserably oppressed, no wonder theyseized an opportunity of revolt. The earthquake here mentioned was soviolent, that (according to Plutarch) it demolished all the houses in Sparta,except five. The Helots rose at once effectually to demolish those Spar­tans too, who were not buried in the ruins. But Archidumus had already,by way of precaution, sounded an alarm, and got them together in a body.The Helots, thus prevented, marched off, and seized Ithome. where theymade a long and obstinate resistance.