OCR Output RHAPTUM.RHEGIUM. 703 From Rhapta they exported ivoryAn* to that of Adulis), tortoise-shell (the nextrt a qoality to that of India), rhinoceros-horn,i usplrus (a shell probably used in dyeing).mm oromrrcial feat area are nearly repeated ati (n*rat day in this region. The African stilliW and mans the ship; the Arab is the navigatord nprrrargo. The ivory is still of inferior qna-t.Wmc for the most part found in the woods,aaeni by rain, or collected from animals drownednt nerftow of the rivers at the equinoxes. Then>edl tank is still captured in the neighbour-id* the river Gocind, and on the shore opposite1 ind ef Palo. (See Vincent, Voyage of*-am*. vol iL pp. 169—183; Cooler, Claudiusm~f md tie A*«V, pp. 69—72.) £\V. B. D.]UUf'TrM PROMONTORIUM. [Rhaita.JIflArTCS FLUVIUS. [Rhakta.J6UI.V>TIA ('Piwrria), a town in the country of1 Trams in Gal at i a, in Asia Minor, which ismi mW by Ptolemy (t. 4. § 9). [L. S.]EATOSTATHYBIUS ('PoToffTo^/ffior, Ptol. ii.}VK a river an the W. coast of Britannia Romans,nda* m Camden (p. 733) the Taf. [T.H.D.]ftAPCUS CFnwwi, Scyl. p. 19; Polyb. xxxi.11. xz&nL 15. § 1: Elk. 'Pawnor, fem. 'Pai/ftia,Wl R. jl r.l From the story told about thea* ijrm by Anterior in his "Cretica" (ap.Aelian.i mi 35. enmp. Diodor. v. 70), it seems thatimi t»o cities of this name in Crete. Thevan • f two places so called in the island mightsaw v am Mich legend as that which he men-Bttntrlrr (Crete, enl. i. p. 235) firw the siteBaanmarna at lirighio Mgro, between CnnsstisSatjus. and frotn its proximity to Mt. Idaithai it at the more ancient, [E. B. J.] COW or RlIAL'Ct'S. CP^eTat). a very small river on thethe length of which amounts onlyit flow* into the Kuxine. near thef Bosporus, north-ea»t of Cbalcrdon,the name of Hiva. (Scylax. p. 34;7*4: PtoA. v. i. § 5; Am'an, Pcripls> M. Marcian, p. 69; Plin. vi. 1; Steph. B. Ttus liitie rin-r, which is otherwise of noavana, earns its celebrity to the story of theMats. (OrpsV Arg. 7*11; Apollun. Rhod. ii.79%) It ale* bore the names of Khesaeusth-MS ([fio. L c.\ Soiio. 43\ the last ofaaeava to have arisen from a confusion withassat nntinofd by Homer. [L. S.] i >>xns. [BwKxnan] LUIl*V ('Pwryw: A'lA.'Piryu'or, Rheginus:tp am awpertant city of Macua Graecia, situ-aw tkm southern end of the Bruttian peninsula,i i- side of the Sicilian straits, and almostf i f—He in Messana iu Sicily. The distancea tara two cities, in a direct line, is only about, avis*, and the distance from Khegium to the nearest point of the island is somewhat less. Thereis no doubt that it was a Greek colony, and we haveno account of any settlement previously existing onthe site; but the spot is said to have been markedby the tomb of Joeastus, one of the sons of Aeolus.(Heraclid. PoliL 25.) The foundation of Rhegiumis universally ascribed to the Chak-idians, who had,in a year of famine, consecrated a tenth part of theircitizens to Apollo; and these, under the direction ofthe oracle at Delphi, proceeded to Rhegium, whitherthey were also invited by their Chalcidic brethren,who were already established at Zancle on the oppo­site side of the strait (Strab. vi. p. 257; Heraclid.lc\ Diod. xiv. 40; Thuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch.311.)With these Chalcidians were also united a body ofMes.senian exiles, who had been driven from theircountry at the beginning of the First MesscnianWar, and had established themselves for a time atMacistus. They were apparently not numerous, asRbegium always continued to be considered a Chal­cidic city; but they comprised many of the chieffamilies in the new colony; so that, according toStrabo, the presiding magistrates of the city werealways taken from among these Messenian citizens,down to the time of Anaxilas, who himself l>elongedto this dominant caste. (Strab. vi. p. 257; Paus. iv.23. § 6; Thuc. vi. 4; Heraclid. /. c. 1.) The dateof the foundation of Rhegium is uncertain; the state­ments just mentioned, which connect it with theFirst Messenian War would carry it back as far asthe 8th century n.c; but they leave the preciseperiod uncertain. Paosanias considers it as foundedafter the end of the war, while Antiochus, who iscited fcy Strabo, seems to refer it to the beginning;but his expressions are not decisive, as we do notknow how long the exiles may have remained atMacistus; and it is probable, on the whole, that wemay consider it as taking place shortly after theclose of the war, and therefore before 720 b. c.(Paus. /. c.; Antioch. ap. Strab. I. c). In this caseit was probably the most ancient of all the Greekcolonies in this part of Italy. Various etymologiesof the name of Rhegium arc given by ancient authors;the one generally received, and adopted by Aeschylus{ap. Strab. I. c), was that which derived it from thebursting asunder of the coasts of Sicily and Italy,which was generally ascribed to an earthquake.(Diod. iv. 85; Justin, iv. 1, Ac.) Others absurdlyconnected it with the Latin rtgimm (Strab. f. c),while Heraclides gives a totally dihVrcnt story, whichderived the name from that of an indigenous hero.(Heraclid. Mt 25.) There seems no doubt that Rhegium rose rapidlyto be a flourishing and prosperous city; but we knowalmost nothing of its history previous to the time ofAnaxilas. The constitution, as we learn from He­raclides, was aristocratic, the management of affairsresting wholly with a council or body of 1000 of theprincipal and wealthiest citizens. After the legis­lation of Chan ndas at Catana, his laws were adoptedby the Rhegians as well as by the other Chalcidiccities of Sicily. (Heraclid. Lc; Arist. Pol. ii. 12,v. 12.) The Rhegians arc mentioned as affordingshelter to the fugitive Phocaeans, who had beendriven from Corsica, previous to the foundation ofVelia. (Herod, i. 1G6, 167.) According to Strabothey extended their dominion over many of theadjoining towns, but these could only have beensmall places, as we do not hear of any colonies ofimportance founded by the Rhegians; and their ter­ritory extended only as far as the Hslex on the V.,