OCR Output Uxxviii' NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. of his viiith book, which relates to the province ofThebais in Egypt, may seem to contradict our mo­derate computation; but it will only lead us to ad­mire the artful management of the historian.Chusing for the scene of the most exquisite cruelty,the most remote and sequestered country of the Ro­man empire, he relates that in Thebais, from tento one hundred persons had frequently sufferedmartyrdom in the same day. But when he pro­ceeds to mention his own journey into Egypt, hislanguage insensibly becomes more cautious and mo­derate. Instead of a large, but definite number,he speaks of many christians ;and most artfully selects two ambiguous words (..-.^jaus, andpœo/MiKuroj) which may signify either what he hadseen, or what he had heard, either the expectationor the execution of the punilhmedt. Having thusprovided a secure evasion, he commits the equivo­cal passage to his readers and translators; justly con­ceiving that their piety would induce them to preferthe most favourable fense. There was perhaps somemalice in the remark of Theodorus Metochita, thatall who, like Eufebius, had been conversant with the Egyptians, delighted in an obscure and intri­cate style. (See Valesius ad loc ) [182] When Palestine was divided into three, theprefecture of the east contained/orty eight, pro­vinces. As the ancient distinctions of nations werelong since abolished, the Romans distributed theprovinces, according to a general proportion oftheir extent and opulence. [183] Ut gloriari poffint nullum fe innocentiumperemisse, nam et ipfe audivi aliquos gloriantes,quia administratio sua, in hac pane, fuerit incru-enta. Lactant. Institut. Divin. v. 11. [184] Grot. Annal. de Rebus Belgicis, 1. i. p.12. Edit. so!. [185] Fra-Paolo (Istoria del Concilio Tridentino,1. iii.) reduces the number of Belgic martyrs to50,000. In learning and moderation, Fra-Paolowas not inferior to Grotius. The priority of timegives some advantage to the evidence of the former,which he loses by the distance of Venice from theNetherlands. END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,