OCR Output CHAP. XLlV.j OF THE SOMAN EMPIRE. $73 But as the new practice of trusts degenerated into some-abuse, the trustee was enabled, by the Trebellian andPegasian decrees, to reserve one-fourth of the estate, orto transfer on the head of the real heir all the debts andactions of the succession. The interpretation of testa­ments was strict and literal; but the language of trustsand codicils was delivered from the minute and technicalaccuracy of the civilians.' III. The general duties of mankind are imposed by in. ortheir public and private relations: but their specific obli­gations to each other can only be the effect of, 1. a pro­mise, 2. a benefit, or, 3. an injury: and when theseobligations are ratified by law, the interested party maycompel the performance by a judicial action. On thisprinciple the civilians of every country have erected a si­milar jurisprudence, the fair conclusion of universal rea­son and justice." I. The goddess of faith (of human and social faith)was worshipped, not only in her temples, but in the livesof the Romans; and if that nation was deficient in themore amiable qualities of benevolence and generosity,they astonished the Greeks by their sincere and simpleperformance of the most burdensome engagements.1Yet among the same people, according to the rigid max­ims of the patricians and decemvirs, a naked pact, a pro­mise, or even an oath, did not create any civil obligation,unless it was confirmed by the legal form of a stipulation.Whatever might be the etymology of the Latin word,it conveyed the idea of a firm and irrevocable contract,which was always expressed in the mode of a question 'Of tlie civil jurisprudence of successions, testaments, codicils, legacies, andtrusts, the principles are ascertained in the Institutes of Caius, (lib. 2. tit 2—9.p. 91—144.) Justinian, (lib. 2. tit. 10—25.)and Theophilus, (p. 328—514.) and I hoimmense detail occupies twelve books (28—39.) of the Pandects.- " The Institutes of Cains, (lib. 2. tit. 9,10. p. 144—214.) of Justinian, (Kb. 3. tit.14—30. lib. 4. tit. 1—C.) and of Theophilus, (p. 616—837.) distinguish foursorts of obligations—aut re, aut verbis, aut Uteris, aut consensu; but 1 confess my­self partial to my own division. * How mnch is the cool, rational evidence of Polybius (lib. 6. p. 693. lib. 31.p. 1459,1460.) superior to vague, indiscriminate applause—omnium niaxime et pras-cipue fidem coluit. (A. Gellius, tQ. 1.)