OCR Output B. I. 101 INTRODUCTION. verge yet breathing a little ; and, being thus brought out, heimmediately died. They next intended to cast his body intothe Caeada, where they are used to throw their malefactors ; butafterwards changed their minds, and put him into the groundsomewhere thereabouts. But the God at Delphi warned theLacedaemonians afterwards by an oracle " to remove his body" to the place where he died:"—And now it lies in the areabefore the temple, as the inscription on the pillars sheweth—" and, as in what they had done they had violated the laws of" sanctuary, to restore two bodies to the Chalcicecan for thatM one." To this they so far conformed, as to dedicate theretwo statues of brass, as atonements for Pausanias. (The Athenians, upon the principle that the God himselfhad judged this a pollution, required of the Lacedaemonians,by way of retaliation, to clear themselves of it.) The Lacedaemonians at that time sent ambassadors toAthens, to accuse Themistocles also of carrying on the sametreasonable correspondence with the Mede as Pausanias, whichthey had discovered from the papers which had been evidenceagainst Pausanias, and demanded that " he should be equallypunished for it." The Athenians complied with this demand.But as he then happened to be under the ostracism*, and re- • The Ostracism was a compliment of an extraordinary kind paid by thepeople of Athens to superior merit. When a person had done them greatservices, and they grew apprehensive they might possibly shew him toomuch gratitude, to the prejudice of their own liberties, they banished himfor ten years. On some particular day each citizen gave in the name of aperson, wrote upon an ostracum (a shell or piece of tile), whom he desiredshould be sent into retirement. Six thousand of these votes carried the point;and he, who had thus a legal number of votes, was obliged to quit Athenawithin ten days. The most disinterested patriot, and most successfulcommander received, for the most part, this public acknowledgment oftheir services. At length, a scoundrel fellow, one Hyperbolus, was thushonourably distinguished by the public voice. The Athenians thoughtafterwards they had profaned the ostracism by treating him like a Themis­tocles, an Aristides, or a Cimon, and therefore abolished this strange inju­rious privilege, by which wanton libertv was enabled to triumph over itsbest friend, public spirit. Other republics in Greece had something of thesame nature amongst them. Authors vary much about the circumstances Vol. I. 2D