OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SOI eight hundred in number, there being in the place a sufficientquantity of corn and water, and other necessaries, and went di­rectly for Petra, in Arabia. But when it was day, the Parthiansplundered all Jerusalem, and the palace, and abstained fromnothing but Hyrcanus' money, which was three hundred ta­lents. A great deal of Herod's money escaped, and principallyall that the man had been so provident as to send into Idumeabeforehand: nor indeed did what was in the city suffice theParthians, but they went out into the country, and plunderedit, and demolished the city Marissa. 10. And thus was Antigonus brought back into Judea, bythe king ot the Parthians, and received Hyrcanus and Phasaelusfor his prisoners; but he was greatly cast down because thewomen had escaped, whom he intended to have given the ene­my, as having promised they should have them, with the money,for their reward: But being afraid that Hyrcanus, who wasunder the guard of the Parthians, might have his kingdom re­stored to him by the multitude, he cut off his ears, and therebytook care that the high priesthood should never come to him anymore, because he was maimed, while the * law required that thisdignity should belong to none but such as had all their membersentire. But now one cannot but here admire the fortitude ofPhasaelus, who, perceiving that he was to be put to death, didnot think death any terrible thing at all, but to die thus by themeans of his enemy, this he thought a most pitiable and dishon­ourable thing, and therefore, since he had not his hands at li­berty, but the bonds he was in prevented him from killinghimself thereby, he dashed his head against a great stone, andthereby took away his own life, which he thought to be thebest thing he could do in such a distress as he was in, and there­by put it out of the power of the enemy to bring him to any deathhe pleased. It is also reported, that when he had made a greatwound in his head, Antigonus sent physicians to cure it, and byordering them to infuse poison into the wound, killed him-However, Phasaelus hearing, before he was quite dead, by a cer­tain woman, that his brother Herod had escaped the enemy,underwent his death cheerfully, since he now left behind himone who would revenge his death, and who was able to inflictmmishment on his enemies. * This law of Moses, that the priests were to be without blemish, as to all theparls of iheir bodies, is in Levit. xxi. 17—24.