OCR Output '212 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. country. After the southern army under Caesar had assem­bled in the spring of 664 iu Campania which for themost part held by Home, and had provided Capua—with itsdomain so important for the Roman finances—as well as themore important allied cities with garrisons, it attempted toassume the offensive and to come to the aid of the smallerdivisions sent on before it to Samnium and Lucania underMarcus Marcellus and Publius Crassus. But Caesar was re­pulsed by the Samnites and Marsians under Publius VettiusScato with severe loss, and the important town of Venafrumthereupon passed over to the insurgents, into whose hands itdelivered its Roman garrison. By the defection of thistown, which lay on the military road from Campania toSamnium, .32sernia was isolated, and that fortress alreadystrongly assailed found itself now exclusively dependent onthe courage and perseverance of its garrison and its com­mandant Marcellus. It is true that an incursion, whichSulla happily carried out with the same crafty audacityas his expedition to Bocchus, relieved the hard-pressedJSsernians for a moment; nevertheless they were after anobstinate resistance compelled by the extremity of famine tocapitulate towards the end of the year. In Lucania tooPublius Crassus was defeated by Marcus Lamponius, andcompelled to shut himself up in Grumentum, which fellafter a long and obstinate siege. With these exceptions,they had been obliged to leave Apulia and the southern dis­tricts totally to themselves. The insurrection spread; whenMutilus advanced into Campania at the head of the Samnitearmy, the citizens of Nola surrendered to him their city anddelivered up the Roman garrison, whose commander wasexecuted by the orders of Mutilus, while the men were distri­buted through the victorious army. With the single excep­tion of Nuceria, which adhered firmly to Rome, all Campaniafor the most as far as Vesuvius was lost to the Romans; Salernum, Stabiae,}frt'ost to Pompeii, Herculaneum declared for the insurgents; Mutilus'was able to advance into the region to the north of Vesuvius,and to besiege Acerrae with his Samnito-Lucanian army. TheNumidians, who were in great numbers in Caesar's army,began to pass over in troops to Mutilus or rather to Oxyntas,the son of Jugurtha, who on the surrender of Venusia hadfallen into the hands of the Samnites and now appearedamong their ranks in regal purple; so that Caesar foundhimself compelled to send home the whole African corps. Caesar inCam- [90pania andSamnium. yEserniataken bythe insur­gents, as alsoNola. Campania