OCR Output 74 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 769. they repented of their choice, and saw, with regTet,the disgrace which their tame submission had brought:upon their country. "The Parthians," they said," were a degenerate race, who meanly stooped to sue i" in another world, and invited to reign over them an |" exotic king, trained up by the Romans, fraught with" their maxims, and tainted by their manners. The" kingdom of the Arsacides was at length reduced to" a Roman province, to be dealt out at the pleasure" of the emperor. Where now the glory of those" gallant heroes who put Crassus to death, and made" Marc Antony fly before them? The slave of Ccesar," who crouched so many years in bondage, gives the" law to the Parthians." Such were the prejudicesof the people. The conduct of Vonones inflamed theirindignation. He renounced the manners of his coun­try ; was rarely seen in the sports of the chase ; hetook'no delight in horsemanship, and in his progressthrough the kingdom lolled at ease in a litter. Hedisdained, with fastidious pride, to have his tableserved agreeably to the national taste; his train ofGreek attendants gave disgust; and the paltry atten­tion, that secured the most trifling articles under aseal, excited the contempt and ridicule of the people.To be easy of access, was want of dignity; andcourteous manners degraded the prince. Virtues newto the Parthians were new vices. Between his goodand evil qualities no distinction was made: they wereforeign manners, and for that reason detested. III. In this disposition of the,public mind, the crownwas offered to Artabanus, a descendant of Arsaces,educated among the Dahi. This prince, after a de­feat in his first engagement, reinforced his army, andgained possession of the crown. Vonones fled to Ar­menia, where, in that juncture, the throne was va­cant; but an irresolute and wavering people couldform no settled plan. They turned their thoughts first ,to Rome, and next to the Parthians, acting with al­ternate treachery to both. The insidious conduct ofMarc Antony, who allured their king Artavasdes tohis friendship, then loaded him with chains, andbasely murdered him, was fresh in thoir minds. Ar-