OCR Output CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 53 nearer Alba, and of the Curiatii towards Rome; but OBdifferent spots, where they respectively fell. CHAP. XXVI. Horatius airaigned and acquitted. 1JEFORE they left the ground, Mettus went up to Tul-lu?, and in terms of the treaty, asked his commands. Tul-lus orders him to keep the youth in arms, as, in case ofa war with the Vejentes, he might have occasion fortheir assistance. After this both armies returned home. Horatius marched at the head of the Romans, bearingbefore him the triple spoils he had so gloriously obtained.His sister, promised in marriage to one of the Curiatii,came out to meet him at Porta Copena. Perceiving onher brother's shoulder, a military cloak wrought with herown hands, and presented to her future spouse, she tearsher hair, and sheds a torrent of tears, in mournful ac足cents, calling upon her lover.now no more. The youngconqueror offended with his sister's lamentations, amidstthe public joy, and his triumph, stabs'herin the transportof his passion, with these severe reproaches, " Go, unnn-"natural sister; go to thy lover with thy unseasonable"passion; thou who forgettest thy dead brothers, thy"living brother and thy country. Thus let her perish,"who shall ever dare to lament the death of an enemy"to Rome." To the senate and people of Rome, this seemed a ne足farious deed; but the lustre of his recent victory plead足ed 'strongly for the offender. He was dragged, however,to stand his trial before the king; who to avoid passinga sentence in so dismal and unpopular an affair, or or足dering execution, after sentence should be pronounced,having called an assembly of the people, " I appoint"Duumvirs, (says he,) to try Horatius according to law."The law was of a horrible tenor. Let the Duumvirs"judge of the felony; if the pannel appeal from their"sentence, let his appeal be received: If their sentence"be confirmed, let him be hood-winked, and hanged"with a rope upon an accursed tree, having been first"scourged, either within or without the Pomoerium."