OCR Output 122 LIVY. assured that every one whom they saw going out tobattle would meet death in the engagement. Theythen besought them, by the deities celestial and infer­nal, that mindful of their liberty, which must termi­nate on that day either in an honorable death or dis­graceful slavery, they would leave no object on whichthe enraged enemy could vent their fury. That theyhad fire and swords at their command; and that itwere better that their friendly and faithful handsshould consume those things which must necessarilyperish, than that the foe should insult over them withhaughty scorn.' To these exhortations they addeddreadful imprecations against any who should be di­verted from their purpose, either by hope or tender­ness; and then with rapid speed and violent impe­tuosity they rushed out through the open gates. Therewas none of the outposts strong enough to withstandthem, because nothing could have been less appre­hended than that they should dare to come out of thefortifications; a very few troops of horse, and thelight infantry, despatched in haste from the camp,threw themselves in their way. The encounter wasfurious, owing more to their impetuosity and resolu­tion than to any regular disposition. The horse, there­fore, which had first engaged, being discomfited, com­municated the terror to the light infantry; and thebattle would have reached to the very rampart, hadnot the main body of the legions drawn out their line,though there was very little time allowed them forforming. Even among their battalions there was someconfusion; while the Astapans, blinded with fury,rushed on against men and weapons with the mostdaring insensibility of danger. But in a short timethe veteran soldiers, too steady to be disturbed bysuch rash attacks, by killing the foremost, stopped theadvance of the next. Afterwards, when they endea­vored to gain on them, finding that not a man gaveway, but that they were obstinately determined to die,they extended their line, which their numbers enabledthem to do with ease; they then surrounded the flanks