OCR Output 26 ROMAN EMPIRE. of eulogies and benedictions, the courtiers of both sexeswere bribed according to the measure of their powerand rapaciousness. But their incessant demands de­spoiled the sanctuaries of Constantinople and Alexan­dria; and the authority of the patriarch was unable tosilence the just murmur of his clergy, that a debt of60,000/. had already been contracted to support the ex­pense of this scandalous corruption.11 Pulcheria, whorelieved her brother from the weight of an empire, wasthe firmest pillar of orthodoxy; and so intimate was thealliance between the thunders of the synod and thewhispers of the court, that Cyril was assured of successif he could displace one eunuch, and substitute anotherin the favour of Theodosius. Yet the Egyptian couldnot boast of a glorious or decisive victory. The empe­ror, with unaccustomed firmness, adhered to his pro­mise of protecting the innocence of the oriental bishops;and Cyril softened his anathemas, and confessed, withambiguity and reluctance, a twofold nature of Christ,before he was permitted to satiate his revenge againstthe unfortunate Nestorius." The rash and obstinate Nestorius, before theNestorius, end of the synod, was oppressed by Cyril, be-"' trayed by the court, and faintly supported by hiseastern friends. A sentiment of fear or indignationprompted him, while it was yet time, to affect theglory of a voluntary abdication ;f his wish, or at leasthis request, was readily granted; he was conducted '' Clerici qui hie sunt contristantur, quod ecclesia Alexandrina nudata sit hojuscausa turbelae; et debet prater ilia qua hinc transmissa sint auri libras millequuigintas. Et mme ei scriptum est ut prastet; sed de tua ecclesia pricsta ava-ritiaj quorum nosti, &c. This curious and original letter, from Cyril's archdeaconto his creature the new bishop of Constantinople, has been unaccountably pre­served in an old Latin version. (Synodicon, c. 403. Concil. torn. 4. p. 465—468.)The mask is almost dropped, and the saints speak the honest language of interestand confederacy. • The tedious negotiations that succeeded the synod of Ephesus are diffusely re­lated in the original Acts, (Concil. torn. 3. p. 1339—1771, ad fin. vol. and the Sy­nodicon, in torn. 4.) Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 28. 35. 40, 41.) Evagrius, (lib. 1. c. 6—8.12.) Liberatus, (c. 7—10.) Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 487—676.)The most patient reader will thank me for compressing so much nonsense andfalsehood in a few lines. 'AUTO U Ti »uJtn8svTOf, tmrftm nan ro toum mravawXtiwai poraa-Tr,(i«. Evagrius,lib. 1. c. 7. The original letters in the Synodicon (c. 15. 24—26) justify th?