OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL as well as the provinces, congratulated the accession of the sons ofCarus. These fortunate youths were,strangers, however, to that con­scious superiority either of birth or of merit, which can alone renderthe possession of a throne easy, and as it were natural. Born and edu­cated in a private station, the election of their father raised them atonce to the rank of princes; and hie death, which happened aboutsixteen months afterwards, left them the unexpected legacy of a vastempire. To sustain with temper this rapid elevation, an uncommonshare of virtue and prudence was requisite; and Carinus, the elderof the brothers, was more than commonly deficient in those qua­lities. In the Gallic war, he discovered some degree of personalcourage 80; but from the moment of His arrival at Rome, he aban->doned himself to the luxury of the capital, and to the abuse of hisfortune- He was soft yet cruel, devoted to pleasure but destituteof taste; and though exquisitely susceptible of vanity, indifferentto the public esteem. In the course of a few months, he successivelymarried and divorced nine wives, most of whom he left pregnant;and notwithstanding this legal inconstancy, found time to indulgesuch a variety of irregular appetites, as brought dishonour on himselfand on the noblest houses of Rome. He beheld with inveterate hatredall those who might remember his former obscurity, or censure hispresent conduct. He banished, or put to death, the friends and coun­sellors whom his father had placed about him, to guide his inexpe­rienced youth; and he persecuted with the meanest revenge his school­fellows and companions, who had not sufficiently respected the futuremajesty of the emperor. With the senators, Carinus affected a loftyand regal demeanour, frequently declaring, that he designed to distri­bute their estates among the populace of Rome. From the dregs ofthat populace, he selected his favourites, and even his ministers. Thepalace, and even the imperial table, was filled with lingers, dancers,prostitutes, and all the various retinue of vice and folly. One of hisdoor-keepers81 he entrusted with the government of the city. In the