OCR Output 232 livy. thousand men: taken, above five thousand; many Car­thaginian nobles, eleven senators; military standards,a hundred and seventy-four; Numidian horses, abovetwo thousand seven hundred; six elephants were taken,and eight destroyed. A great quantity of arms wastaken, all which the general dedicated to Vulcan, andcommitted to the flames. 7. Hasdrubal, with a small number of Africans, haddirected his flight to the nearest city; and thither allwho survived, following the steps of their general, hadassembled; but, dreading lest he should be deliveredinto the hands of Scipio, he soon after quitted it. TheRomans, who were immediately after received there,committed no act of hostility, because the surrenderwas voluntary. Two other cities were taken andplundered; and the booty found in them, togetherwith what had been saved when the camps were burned,was given up to the soldiers. Syphax halted in afortified post, at about eight miles distance. Has­drubal, lest any timorous measures should be adoptedthrough the violent apprehensions occasioned by thelate disaster, proceeded to Carthage, where such con­sternation had seized the people, that they made nodoubt but Scipio would leave Utica, and instantly laysiege to Carthage. The senate was therefore assem­bled by the suffetes, who are invested with the sameauthority as our consuls. Three different opinionswere offered on the occasion: one proposed sendingambassadors to Scipio, with proposals of peace; ano­ther, the recalling of Hannibal, to defend his country;the third showed Roman firmness in adversity, recom­mending to recruit the army, and to intreat Syphaxnot to abandon the war. This latter opinion prevailed,because Hasdrubal, who was present, and all of theBarcine faction, were disposed to fight to the last. Onthis they began to levy troops in the city and the coun­try, and sent ambassadors to Syphax, who was himselfmost vigorously employed in making preparations forthe renewal of hostilities. His queen had prevailed,not on this occasion as formerly, by her allurements,