OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL on our humility; and they revere, as a god upon earth, the apostle St. Peter, -whoseimage you threaten to destroy.(l) The remote and interior kingdoms of the westpresent their homage to Christ and his vicegerent: and we now prepare to visitone of their most powerful monarchs, who desires to receive from our hands thesacrament of baptism. (2) The barbarians have submitted to the yoke of the gos­pel, while you alone are deaf to the voice of the shepherd. These pious barba­rians are kindled into rage; they thirst to avenge the persecution of the east.Abandon your rash and fatal enterprise; reflect, tremble, and repent. If you per- "sist, we are innocent of the blood that will be spilt in the contest: may it fall onyour own head." > The first assault of Leo against the images of Constantinople had been witnessedby a crowd of strangers from Italy and the west, who related with grief and indig­nation the sacrilege of the emperor. But on the reception of his proscriptive edict,they trembled for their domestic deities; the images of Christ and the Virgin, ofthe angels, martyrs, and saints, were abolished in all the churches of Italy; and astrong alternative was proposed to the Roman pontiff, the royal favour as the Srice of his compliance, degradation and exile as the penalty of his disobedience.Neither zeal nor policy allowed him to hesitate; and the haughty strain in whichGregory addressed the emperor displays his confidence in the truth of his doctrineor the powers of resistance. Without depending on prayers or miracles, he boldlyarmed against the public enemy, and his pastoral letters admonished the Italiansof their danger and of their duty.(S) At this signal, Ravenna, Venice, and thecities of the exarchate and Pentapolis, adhered to the cause of religion; their mili­tary force by sea and land consisted, for the most part, of the natives; and the spi­rit of patriotism and zeal was transfused into the mercenary strangers. The Italiansswore to live and die in the defence of the pope and the holy images: the Romanpeople was devoted to their father, and even the Lombards were ambitious toshare the merit and advantage of this holy war. The most treasonable act, but themost obvious revenge, was the destruction of the statues of Leo himself: the mosteffectual and pleasing measure of rebellion, was the withholding the tribute of Italy,and depriving him of a power which he had recently abused by the imposition ofa new capitation. (4) A form of administration was preserved by the election ofmagistrates and governors: and so high was the public indignation, that the Italianswere prepared to create an orthodox emperor, and to conduct him with a fleet andarmy to the palace of Constantinople. In that palace, the Roman bishops, thesecond and third Gregory, were condemned as the authors of the revolt, and everyattempt was made, either by fraud or force, to seize their persons, and to strike attheir lives. The city was repeatedly visited or assaulted by captains of the guards,and dukes and exarchs of high dignity or secret trust; they landed with foreigntroops, they obtained some domestic aid, and the superstition of Naples may blushthat her fathers were attached to the cause of heresy. But these clandestine oropen attacks were repelled by the courage and vigilance of the Romans; theGreeks were overthrown and massacred, their leaders suffered an ignominiousdeath, and the popes, however inclined to mercy, refused to intercede for theseguilty victims. At Ravenna,(5) the several quarters of the city had long exerciseda bloody and hereditary feud; in religious controversy they found a new aliment offaction: but the votaries of images were superior in numbers or spirit, and theexarch, who attempted to stem the torrent, lost his life in a popular sedition. Topunish this flagitious deed, and restore his dominion in Italy, the emperor sent a (2) Awo mis ecsrioo-j Juntos tou \'.yoptvov iis-TETov (p. 665.) The pope appears to have imposed on the T|xanceof the Greeks; he lived and died in the Lateran; and in his time, all (he kingdoms or the west \braced Christianity. May not this unknown Septetus have some reference to the chief of the Saxon /to Ina, king of Wessex, who, in the pontificate of Gregory II. visited Rome for the purpose, not of bof pilgrimage? (Pagi, A. D. 689. No. 2. A. D. 726. No. 15.) (3) I shall transcribe the important and decisive passage of the Liber Pontificals. Respiciens ergo praprofanam principis jussionem, jam contra imperatorem quasi contra hostem se armavit, rcnuens hauesim tfccribeos ubique se cavere Chtistianos, eo quod orta fuisset, impietas talis. Igitur permoti omnes Pcntlposes,atque Venetiarum exercitus contra Imperatoris jussionem restiterunt; dicentes se nunquam in ejusdempontificis con df;scendere necem, sed pro ejus magis defensione viriliter deeertare. (p. 156.) (4) A census, or capitation, says Anastasius: (p. 156.) a most cruel tax, uuknown to the Saracens themselves,exclaims the zealous Maimbourg. (Hist.des Iconoclastes, lib. i.) and Theophanes, (p. 344.) who talks of Pha­raoh's numbering the male children of Israel. This mode of taxation was familiar to the Saracens; and, mostunluckily for the historian, it was imposed a few years afterward in France by his patron Louis XIV. (5) Seethe Liber Pontificalis of Agnellus,fin the Scriptores Rerura Italioarum of Muratori, torn. ii. pars. I.)whose deeper shade of barbarism marks the difference between Rome and Ravenna. Yet we are indebted toAim for some curious and domestic facts— the quarrels and factions of Ravenna, f p. 154.) the revenge of Josl'-aianll. (p. 150,161.) the defeat of the Greeks, (p. 170,171, &c) - • pius virim eras,apolen-