OCR Output CHAP. 13. ROMAN'HISTORY. 331 self to do in private, and brought the sarae sort of peopleto frequent the houses of both. By their means, thewhole plot was discovered, and laid before ihe senate,by Minucius, who told them, that arms were carriedinto Maeliu.s', house, where he also held assemblies; andthere was not a doubt, but he was taking measures tomake himself king. That the time for the^execution ofhis design wa« not yet fixed, but every thing previous toit was concerted, and the tribunes being brought up tobetray their country, the leading men among the com­mons had the parts assigned them they were respective­ly to act. That he came with this information later,perhaps, than the safety of the republic required, bat hewished to advance nothing, of the certainty whereof hewas not perfectly assured.^ Upon this relation, heavy reproaches were thrown bythe principal senators, from every part of the house, onthe consuls of the former year, because they had sufferedsuch largesses to be made, and such meetings to be heldin a private house; nor did the present consuls escapethem, for waiting till so important a discovery shoufd bemade by a purveyor-general, whereas. it was the duty 01the consuls not only to have been acquainted with an.affair of such moment, but also to have punished the de­linquent. Titus Quinctiu?, in answer, told them, that they hadno reason to blame the consuls, whose authority beingcramped, and in a manner annihilated by the laws ofappeal, whatever their courage and resolution might beto punish a crime .of that nature according to its enor­mity!" by no means furnished them with the power. i In"this case, that a man of resolution, was not sufficient, hispower must be unlimited, he must be above the law.That for this reason he would name L. Quinctius Dicta­tor, a .man whose soul was as capacious as the power- was extensive. All approved of this motion ; but Quin-tius wished to be off, asking them what they meant byexposing him, at such an advanced age, to so severe aconflict. ^ But when the senators, as it were with onevoice; declared, that not only more wisdom, but actuallymore real courage resided under his venerable form thancould be found'among them all put together, and loaded