OCR Output Chap. IX. .' ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 105 for the future to leave them off, and send the woman back toher relations. But nothing was gained by these reproofs ; for,as the woman perceived what a tumult was made among thepeople on her account, and was afraid for Anileus, lest "he shouldcome to any harm for his love to her, she infused poison into A-sineus's food, and thereby took him off, and was now secure ofprevailing, when her lover was to be judge of what should bedone about her. So Anileus took the government upon himself alone, andled his army against the villages of Mithridates, who was a manof principal authority in Parthia, and had married king Arta-banus's daughter; he also plundered them, and among that prevwas found much money, and many slaves, as also a great numberof sheep and many other things, which, when gained, makemen's condition happy. Now, when Mithridates, who was thereat this time, heard that his villages were taken, he was verymuch displeased to find that Anileus had first begun to injure him,and to affront him in his present dignity, when he had not offer­ed any injury to him before-hand ; and he got together the great­est body of horsemen he was able, and those out of that numberwhich were of an age fit for war, and came to fight Anileus ; andwhen he Was arrived at a certain village of his own, he lay stillthere, as intending to fight him on the day following, because itwas the Sabbath, the days on which the Jews rest. And whenAnileus was informed of this by a Syrian stranger of anothervillage, who not only gave him an exact account of other cir­cumstances, but told him where Mithridates would have a feast,he took his supper at a proper time, and marched by night, withan intent of falling upon the Parthians while they were unap-prised what they should do; so he fell upon them about the fourthwatch of the night, and some of them he slew while they wereasleep, and others he put to flight, and took Mithridates alive^and set him naked upon an ass *, which, among the Parthians,is esteemed the greatest reproach possible. And, when he hadbrought him into a wood with such a resolution, and his friendsdesired him to kill Mithridates, he soon told them his own mindto the contrary, and said, that " it was not right to kill a man" who was one of the principal families among the Parthians," and greatly honoured with matching into the royal family j" that so far as they had hitherto gone was tolerable ; for al- VOL. III. O . '' though * This custom in Syria and Mesopotamia, of setting men upon an ass, by waytof disgrace, is still kept up at Damascus in Syria; where, in order to show theirdespite against the Christians, the Turks will not suffer them to hire horses,but asses only, when they go abroad to see (he country, as Mr Maundrell asiuresUs, p. 128.