OCR Output 1IGUSTICUM MARE. 1S9 LILYBAEUM. 3. The most important of the routes in theinterior of Liguria, was that leading from Genuainland by LiUamuin to Dertona, from whence abranch communicated, through Iria and Comillo-ma^us, with Placentia; while another brancli pissedby A-jiiae Statiellae to the coast at Vada Sabata.(The stations on both these roads have been alreadygiven in the preceding route). From Aquae Sta-tsellae another brand) led by Pollen tia to AugustaTaurinorum. (Tab. Peul.) [E. H. B.] LIGU'STICUM MAKE (to AcywriKOV ndKayos,Strab. ii. p. 12*2), was the name given in ancienttiroes to that part of the Mediterranean sea which*ij*lined the coast of Liguria, and lay to the N. oftlie Tyrrhenian sea. The name was applied (likeall similar apixdiation.s) with considerable vagueness,sometimes as limited to what is now called the Gulf ofGenoa,— in which sense it i* termed theLiGUSTiei's&5i*s by Florus (iii. 6. § 9). — at others in a muchwider sense, so that Pliny speaks of Corsica as anisland "in Ligustico mari." Some of the Greekgeographers included under the name the whole ex­tent from the frontiers of Spain to those of Etruria,comprising the Mark Galucum of the Romans, orthe iiH«leru Gulf of Lyons. The more limited useof the name seems, however, to have been the moreUMial, at all events in later times, and is elsewhereadopted by Pliny himself. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 10T 6.y. 12; Strab. /. c.; Ptol. Jii. 1. § 3: Agathem. i. 3;Diooys. Per. 76 ; Priacian, Per. 80.) [E. H. B.jL1LAEA (Ai\ata: Klh. AiAcufus), a town ofPhot-is, situated at the foot of Mount Parnassus, andat the sources of the Cephissus. (Horn. IL ii. 522,Hgm*. in A poll 240; Strab. ix. pp. 407, 424;Paus. ix. 24. § 1, x. 33. § 3; Stat. Theb. vii. 348.)It was distant from Delphi by the road over Par­nassus 180 stadia. (Paus. I. c.) It is not men­tioned by Herodotus (viii. 31) among the townsdestroyed by the Persians; whence we may conjec­ture that it belonged at that time to the Dorians,who made their submission to Xerxes. (Leake,Svrthern Greece, vol. ii. p. 90.) It was destroyed»t the end of the Sacred War; but was soonat-.eiwards restored. It was taken by Deme-trioi, bnt sultsequently threw off the Macedo­nian yoke; Pausanias saw at Lilaea a theatre,a:i agora, and baths, with temples of Apollo andArtemis, containing statues of Athenian workman-shipand of Pentelic marble. (Paus. x. 33. § 4; seeaUi.3. § 1.x. 8. § 10; Lycophr. 1073; Steph.B. a. r.) The ruins of Lilaea, called Paleukastro.ut situated about half a mile from the sources of:lw Cephissus. The entire circuit of the fortifica-"j'fl exists, partly founded on the steep descent<& a rocky hill, while the remainder encompasses a**el Sface at its foot, where the ground is covered*Jn ruins. Some of the towers on the walls areitewatentire The sources of the Cepliissus, nowtailed Kefalovryscs (Ke<f»aAofyi)<T«is), are said bylWanias very often to issue from the earth, es-j«.allj at midday, with a noise resembling thewwing of a bull ; and Lrake found, upon inquiry,tM though the present natives had never made anywch observation at Kefalovr^se*, yet the waterG^eo rises suddenly from the ground in largertjWitities than usual, which cannot hut be accom­panied with some noise, (Dodwell, Classical Tour,**!• H. p. 133; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp.*!•**•) Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 15) erroneously callswia*a a town of Doris.U'LLJUM or LI'LEUM (MAXtor, AiAedV), a commercial place (emporium) on the coast of Bi-thynia, 40 stadia to the east of Dia; but no par­ticulars are known about it. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 13;Anonym. Peripl. 3.) It is possible that the placemay have derived its name from the Lilaeus, whichPliny (//. AT. v. 43) mentions among the rivers ofBithynia. [L. S.] LILYBAEUM (AiKvSahv. Eth. AiAvfiamji, Li-lybaetanus: Marsala), a city of Sicily, situated onthe promontory of the same name, which forms theextreme W. point ot the island, now called CapoBoeo. The promontory of Lilybaeum is mentionedby many ancient writers, as well as by all the geo­graphers, as one of the three principal headlands ofSicily, from which that island derived its name ofTrinacria. It was the most westerly point of theisland and that nearest to Africa, from which it was'distant only 1000 stadia according to Poly bins, butStrabo gives the distance as 1500 stadia. Bothstatements, however, exceed the truth ; the real dis­tance from Cape Bon, the nearest point of the coastof Africa, being less than 90 geog. miles, or 900stadia. (Pol. i. 42 ; Strab. ii. p. 122, vi. pp. 265,267; Mel. ii. 7; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 5;Diod. v. 2, xiii. 54; Steph. B. s. v.; Dionys. 1'er.470.) The headland itself is a low but rocky point,continued out to sea by a reef of hidden rocks andshoals, which rendered the navigation dangerous,though there was a safe port immediately adjoin­ing the promontory. (PoL Z. c.; Virg. Aen. iii.706.) Diodorus tells us distinctly that there was notown upon the spot until after the destruction ofMotya by Dionysius of Syracuse, in b. c. 397, whenthe Carthaginians, instead of attempting to restorethat city, settled its few remaining inhabitants onthe promontory of Lilybaeum, which they fortifiedand converted into a stronghold. (Diod. xiii. 54,xxii. 10.) It is, therefore, certainly a mistake(though one of which we cannot explain the origin)when that author, as early as ». c. 454, speaks ofthe Lilybaeans and Segcstans as engaged in war onaccount of the territory on the banks of the riverMazarus (Id. xi. 86). The promontory and ]»rtwere, however, frequented at a much earlier period:we are told that the Cuidiaus under Pentathlus,who afterwards founded Lijiara, landed in the firstinstance at Lilybaeum (Id. v. 9); and it was alsothe point where, in b. c. 409, Hannibal landed withthe great Carthaginian armament designed for theattack of Selinns. (Id. xiii. 54.) Diodorus tellsus (/. c.) that on the promontory was a well (<Pptap\from whence the city took its name: this was ob­viously the same with a source or spring of freshwater rising in a cave, now consecrated to St. John,and still regarded with superstitious reverence.(Kazell. de Beb. Sic. vii. 1; Smyth's Sicily, p. 228.) It is clear that the new city quickly rose to pros­perity, and became an important stronghold of theCarthaginian power, succeeding in this respect to theposition that Motya had previously held. [Motya.]Its proximity to Africa rendered it of especial im­portance to the Carthaginians in securing their com-munu.ati<ns with Sicily, while the dancer whichwould threaten them if a foreign power were inpossession of such a fortress, immediately oppositeto the gulf of Carthage, led them to spare no pains(or its security. Hence Lilybaeum twice became thelast bulwark of their power in Sicily. In b. c. 276it was besieged by Pyrrhus, who had already reducedall the other cities of Sicily, and expelled the Car­