OCR Output 340 [book a. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. lay his hands on; and this without interrup­tion from Jehu, who made no haste to defendthe country, when it was under this distress.Nay he was become a contemner of religion,and despiser of holiness, and of the laws;and died when he had reigned over the Is­raelites *twenty-seven years. He was bu­ried in Samaria, and left the government tohis son Jehoahaz. Meanwhile Jehoash, king of Judah, hadan inclination to repair the temple of God.So he called Jehoiada, and bade him sendthe Levites and priests through all thecountry to require half a shekel of silverfrom every head, towards the rebuilding andrepairing of the temple, which was broughtto decay by Jehoram, and Athaliah, and hersons. But the high-priest did not do this;as concluding that no one would willinglypay that money. But in the twenty-thirdyear of Jehoash's reign, when the king sentfor him, and the Levites, and complainedthat they had not obeyed what he enjoinedthem; and still commanded them to takecare of the rebuilding of the temple, he usedthis stratagem for collecting the money. Hemade a wooden chest, and closed it up faston all sides, but opened one hole in it. Hethen set it in the temple, beside the altar,and desired every one to cast into it,through the hole what he pleased, for therepair of the temple. This contrivance wasacceptable to the people; and they stroveone with another, and brought in jointlylarge quantities of silver and gold.f Andwhen the scribes and the priests that wereover the treasuries, had emptied the chest,and counted the money in the king's pre­sence, they then set it in its former place.And thus did they every day. But when themultitude appeared to have cast in as muchas was wanted, the high-priest Jehoiada,and king Joash, sent to hire masons and car­penters: and to buy large pieces of timber,and of the most curious sort. And whenthey had repaired the temple, they madeuse of the remaining gold and silver, forbowls, basons, cups, and other vessels; andthey went on to make the altar every dayrich with sacrifices of great value. Some time afterwards Jehoiada died whenhe had lived one hundred and thirty years;having been a righteous, and in every re­spect a good man: and he was buried inthe king's sepulchres at Jerusalem; becausehe had recovered the kingdom to the familyof David. After his death Jehoash betrayedhis want of care about God; and the prin­cipal men of the people were corruptedwith him; and offended against their duty,and what their constitution determined tobe most for their good. Hereupon God wasdispleased with the change that was madein the king, and in the rest of the people:and sent prophets to testify to them whattheir actions were, and to bring them toleave off their wickedness. But they had soviolent an inclination to it, that neither couldthe examples of those that had offered af­fronts to the laws, and had been so severelypunished, they and their entire families; norcould the fear of what the prophets nowforetold, bring them to repentance, andturn them back from their course of trans­gression, to their former duty. But the kingcommanded that Zachariah, the son of thehigh-priest Jehoiada, should be stoned toJdeath in the temple; and forgot the kind­nesses he had received from his father. Forwhen God had appointed him to prophesy,he stood in the midst of the multitude, andexhorted both them and the king to actrighteously; and foretold, that if they wouldnot hearken to his admonitions, they shouldsuffer a heavy punishment. But as Zacha­riah was ready to die, he appealed to Godas a witness of what he suffered, for thegood counsel he had given them: and howhe perished after a most severe and violentmanner, for the good deeds his father haddone to Jehoash. However, it was not long before the kingsuffered punishment for his transgression.For when Hazael, king of Syria, made anirruption into his country, and when he hadoverthrown Gath, and spoiled it, he made anexpedition against Jerusalem. HereuponJehoash was afraid, and emptied all thetreasures of God, and of the kings beforehim, and took down the gifts that had been * Twenty-eight, Hebrew and Septuagint, from an.885 to 857. t 2 Kings xii. 9.j About an. 840.