OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 201 jects obeyed the exhortations of Gregory himself, in se­parating the personal guilt of Leo from the generalcause of the Roman empire.c The Greeks were lessmindful of the service, than the Lombards of the injury:the two nations, hostile in their faith, were reconciled ina dangerous and unnatural alliance; the king and theexarch marched to the conquest of Spoleto and Rome:the storm evaporated without effect, but the policy ofLiutprand alarmed Italy with a vexatious alternative ofhostility and truce. His successor Astolphus declaredhimself the equal enemy of the emperor and the pope;Ravenna was subdued by force or treachery/ and thisfinal conquest extinguished the series of the exarchs,who had reigned with the subordinate power since thetime of Justinian and the ruin fff the Gothic kingdom.Rome was summoned to acknowledge the victoriousLombard as her lawful sovereign: the annual tribute ofa piece of gold was fixed as the ransom of each citizen,and the sword of destruction was unsheathed to exactthe penalty of her disobedience. The Romans hesitated;they entreated; they complained; and the threateningbarbarians were checked by arms and negotiations, tillthe popes had engaged the friendship of an ally andavenger beyond the Alps."Her deli- IQ his distress, the first Gregory had implored byTepln. the aid of tae nero of the aee» of Charles Mar-A.D.751. tel, who governed the French monarchy withthe humble title of mayor or duke; and who, by hissignal victory over the Saracens, had saved his coun­ c The Venetian historians, John Sagorninus, (Chron. Venet. p. 13.) and thedoge Andrew Dandolo, (Scriptores Rer. Ital. torn. 12. p. 135.) have preservedthin epistle of Gregory. The loss and recovery of Ravenna are mentioned byPanlus Diaconus; (de Gest. Langobard. lib. 6. c. 49. 5+. in Script. Ital. torn. 1.pan 1. p. 506. 508.) but our chronologists, Pagi, Muratori, &c. cannot ascertainthe date or circumstances. d The option will depend on the various readings of the MSS. of Anastasius—decepcrat, or decerjnerat, (Script. Ital. torn. 3. pare 1. p. 167.) • The Codex Carolinus is a collection of the epistles of the popes to CharlesMartel (whom they style Subregulus), Pepin, and Charlemagne, as far as the year791, when it was formed by the last of these princes. His original and authenticMS. (Bibliothecae Cubicularis) is now in the imperial library of Vienna, and has.been published by Lambecius and Muratori. (Script. Hcrurn Ital. torn .3. pars 2.P.75.&C.)