OCR Output PALAKSTINA. PALAESTIHA. el.ffulek, "tlio waters of Merom" of Scripture(Josh xi. ">. 7), the Skmki'Honitis Talis ofJospphus (Ant. v. 5. § 1, BelLJtid. iii. 12. § 7, iv.1.5 1); but the plain between this lake an<l Pa­ri oa a is hard to be explored, in consequence of nu­merous fountains and the rivulets into which themain streams arc here divided. (Robinson, /. c. pp.353, 35-1; fiibliothrca Sacra, 1843, pp. 12, 13.) This point wa> investigated by Dr. Robinson in1852. and lie found that both the l.tdan and theHasbany unite their waters with the stream from/>V«wx, some distance above (he lake, to which theyrun in one stream. (Juurmd Ji. Geuy, Si*-, vol. xxiv.p. 25, 1855.) This region, now called Merj-ehlfulth, mightwell be designated eAos or * Atj tou lopSdfov, " themarshes of Jordan," by which name, however, theauthor of the first book of Maccabees (1 M<tc<: ix.42) and Joseph us (Ant. xiii. 1. ij 3) Mould seem tosignify the marshy plain to the south of the DeadSea. The waters from the three sources above-mentioned being collected into the small lake, andfurther augmented by the numerous land springs inthe Bahr and Ard-el-lluUh, run off towards thesouth in one current towards the sea of Tiberias[TnihiuAS Maui-;], a distance, according to Jo-sephua, of 120 stadia. They How oil' at the south­western extremity of this lake, and pa->ing througha district well described by Joseph us as a greatdesert (ttoAAV i^alav. H. ./. iii. 9. § 7), nowcalled by the natives EUGhor, lose themselves inthe Dead Sea. Attention has Wn lately called to a peculiarphenomenon exhibited by this river, the problemsrelating to which have Wen solved twice within thelast few years by the enterprise of English andAmerican sailors. In the spring of the year 1838a series of barometrical observations by M. Bertougave to the Dead Sea a depression of 1374 feetbelow the level of the Mediterranean, and to the seaof Tiberias a depression of 755 feet, thus establish­ing a fall of 619 feet between the two lakes. Atthe close of the same year the observations wererepeated by Russegger, with somewhat differentresults-, the depression of the Dead Sea being givenas 1429 feet, the sea of Tiberias 66G feet, and theconsequent fall of the Jordan between the two, 763feet. Heir von Wildeubrucli repeated the observ­ations by barometer in 1845. with the followingresults;—Depression of the Dead Sea 1446 feet, ofthe sea of Tiberias 845 feet, difference 600 feet.He carried his observations further north, even tothe source at T*U~d-Ka<H, with the following re­sults:— At Jacob's bridge, about 'i\ miles from thesouthern extremity of Bahr //tt/eA, he found theJordan 89'9 feet above the Mediterranean; at theBahr Huleh 100 feet; and at the source at Tell-eUKadi 537 feet; thus giving a fall of 1983 feet in adirect course of 117 miles:—the most rapid fallbeing l**t ween the bridge of Jacob and the sea ofTiberias, a distance of only 8 miles, in which theriver talis 845 feet, or 116 feet per mile, Itesultsso remarkable did nut find easy credence, althoughthey were further tested by a trigonometricalsurvey, conducted by Lieut. Symonds of the KoyalEngineers, in 1841, which confirmed the barome­trical observations for the Dead S-a, but were re­mark ably at variance with the statement for the seaof Tiberias, giving to the former a depression of1312 feet, and to the Utter of 328 feet, and a differ­ence of level between the two of 984 feet. The I whole subject is ably treated by Mr. Petrrnunn/aa paper read before the Geographical Society, ehiriiin answer to the strictures of Dr. liobinsoo, in »coavtnunicatioumade to the same society.—both rf*ludkpaj>ers were subsequently published in the>uan»Hthe society (vol. xviii. part 2. 1848). Ia c«a»»«]uence of the observations of Dr. Robinvai (MlHe$. vol. ii. p. 595. n. 4, and vol. iii p. 3U,n.3\the writer in 1842 followed the coarse thJordan from the sea of Tiberias to the sea of /:'-.*.and found it to be a continuous torrent, ro*. -afdown in a narrow rocky channel between »iamprecipitous mountains. It U well descritrc ryIlerr von WiMenbruch. who explored it in IMS. ua "continuous waterfall " (cited by Petennaui. L fip. 103). The lower Jordan, between the sea of Tib™ mthe Dead Sea, w:us subsequently explored br LimMolyneux in 1847. and by an American npeO-Munder Lieut. Lynch in the following vear. The idlowing extracts from the very graphic accouEi <Lieut. Molyneux, also contained in tbe number o;UiKoyal Geographical Society's Journal (pp. 10*-123) already referred to, will give the best iAn (tlie character of this interesting river. hitijert!- 1little known. Immediately on leaving the sea*iTbcrias they found the river upwards of 10Ubroad and 4 or 5 deep; but on reaching the rawa bridge, about 2 miles down the stream, they ixsthe passage obstructed by the ruins, and theirseulties commenced; for seven hours they setr-sever had sufficient water to swim the bia*. 1100 yards together. In many places the t*iis split into a number of small streams, and e»«iquently without much water in any of them, (casionally the boat bad to be carried upward*100 yards over rocks and through thorny it aand in some places they hail hieh, steep. saiiov 13all along the banks of the river. In other urnthe boat had to be carried on the backs of the camthe stream being quite impracticable. The o>ior great valley of the Jordan, is about 8 or 9 bbroad at its upper end; and this space is a»y3but flat — nothing but a continuation of burwith yellow dried-up weeds, which look when ca«like corn stubbles. These hills, howerer, t;cx 1insignificance when compared, to the ran_-«the mountains which enclose the Gkor; ami titherefore only by comparison that this p«ji >iGhor is entitled to be called a valley. Witim 1broader valley is a smaller one on a lower kthrough which the river runs; and its winding anwhich is marked by luxurious vegetation, ntwaia gigantic serpent twisting down the valW.tortuous is its course, that it would be oustpossible to give any account of its various runin its way from the lake of Tiberias to tae 1Sea. A little above Beistm the stream is spaaby an old curiously formed bridge of three anstill in use, and here the Gkor begins to wear a abetter and more fertile aspect. It apt«sbe composed of two different platforms: tbe -3one on either side projects from the font *** iJm Iwhich form the great valley, ami is to±»*nA/T 1but barren and uncultivated. It then fallsthe form of rounded sand-hills, or whitish padicular cliffs, varying from 150 tn 2O0 fe*t n* ticto the lower plain, which should more prr^»ricalled the valley of the Jordan. The mrr hrtithere washes the foot of the cliffs which *ismaller valley, but generally it winds in tl*