OCR Output PALAESTINA. 523 PALAESTINA. Urfk (L SO). The mistake is the more unac-■ u'jiit, u bt not only describes the Dead Sea ini -tu»r«bich shows that he wag thoroughly ac-t*.1 ud with its peculiarities, bat also cites thefciuoi of more indent authors, who had describedm ntsnpisj to explain its phaenomena. Hisnn a paraljirly interesting from the accountsikkfl at rnmi of the formation of the bitumen, andi* *ba* indications which he mentions in the vi-ah rf the operation of volcanic agency, of which*n will be said in the following chapter. Theuitf tnditiom of the catastrophe uf the cities of thepr. idJ the still existing monuments of their over-Lnt, m tuts not mentioned by the earlier historian. "Tit like Stroonb is of great extent: some havei-jv a ciirutttcrencs at 1000 stadia; it stretches■■w Mr the iti-eoast, in length a little more thangVitaiia, deep, and with exceedingly heavy water,• Detailnot necessary to swim, but one whoad-wsas ib'j it up to hi* waist is immediately borne up.k i M of tspbalt, which it vomits np at uncertainss»a ban the midst of the depth, together withkcaa lit those of boiling water, and the surface,en-r* osdf, sHntnes the appearance of a crest,fcetier with the asphalt there rises much soot,or.' ix invisible to the sight, by which brass,e>r oj everything shining, even gold, is tar-fe*i. tad by the tarnishing of their vessels thesJuuati of the neighbourhood know the timeearn -ht ssphslt begins to rise, and make prepa-*~ai f« collecting it by constructing rafts ofIke. Sow the asphalt is the soil of the earth■erf br heat, and bubbling up, and again changed• aid man by cold water, such as that of thea that it requires to be cut; it then floats on*.4xt by reason of the nature of the water,■a fc I have said, is such that a person who■xa it oead not swim, and indeed cannot sink,a sipported by the water. The people thenp t> • tbf rafts, and cut and carry off as much[*•" aa of the asphalt: this is what takes place. states that they being sorcerers useand consolidate the asphalt by'<*er it urine and other foul liquids, andmsiog them out. After this they cut it;prtiini uriiie has the same properties as inJkUilcr of those who suffer from stone. For(XfvffMdAfca, borax) is made with the^■T>- In the midst of the lake the phae-aay reasonably take place, because the■i U* Ere. and tiiat of the asphalt, as well as[untitles of it, are in the middle; andI uncertain, because the movementsorder known to us, as is that of manyP«> (mvpora). This also takes place inBaa ef Epeirus. There are many other evi-m of the existence of fire beneath thea*f. fervent rough burnt rocks are shownasa [Masada], and caves in several places,* fared of ashes, and drops of pitch ■listil-■» tht rocks, and boiling streams, with anta olmr perceptible from a distance, and•"w-hrown in every direction, so as to give*.* W the legends of the natives, that tor-ibrtea cities stood on this spot, of thea «bich, namely, Sodoma, ruins stillr~»as: 60 stadia in circumference; that thea fiRaal by earthquakes and the ebullitionaa bat water impregnated with bitumen and-". 'ill the rocks took fire; and that some of"*t« (wallowed up, and others were dc- serted by those of their inhabitants who could es­cape. Eratosthenes gives a different account,namely, that the country being marshy, the greaterpart of it was covered like the sea by the bursting outof the waters. Moreover, in the territory of Gadara,there is some pernicious lake-water, which when thocattle drink, they lose their hair, hoofs, and horns.At the place named Tarichiae the lake affords ex­cellent salt fish; it also produces fruit-trees, re­sembling apple-trees. Tlte Egyptians use theasphalt for embalming the dead." (Lib. xvi. pp.763, 764.) Another confusion must be remarked at the closeof this passage, where Strabo evidently places Tari­chiae on the Dead Sea, whereas it is situated, on theshores of the Eea of Tiberias. The next writer is the Jewish historian, who addsindeed little to the accurate information conveyedby his predecessors; but his account is evidentlyindependent of the former, and states a few factswhich will be of service in the sequel. Josephuswrote about A. D. 71. "It is worth while to describe the character of thelake Asphaltites, which is salt and unproductive, as Imentioned, and of such buoyancy t bat it sustains eventhe heaviest substances thrown into it, and that evenone who endeavours to sink in it cannot easily do so.For Vespasian, having come to examine it, orderedsome persons who could not swim to be bound withtheir hands behind their backs, and to be cast intothe deep; and it happened that all of them floatedon the surface as if they were bome up by the forceof a blast. The changes of its colour also are re­markable; for thrice every day it changes its ap­pearance, and reflects different colours from the raysof the sun It also emits in many places blackmasses of bitumen, which float on the surface, some­what resembling headless bulls in appearance andsize. The workmen who live by the lake row out,and, laying hold of the solid masses, drag them intotheir boats; but when they have filled them theydo not find it easy to cut the bitumen, for, by reasonof its tenacity, the boat adheres to the mass until it isdetached by means of the menstruous blood of womenor urine, to which alone it yields. It is used not onlytor shipbuilding but also for medicinal purposes ; itis mixed with several drugs. The length of thislake is 580 stadia, as it extends as far as Zoara ofArabia: its breadth is 150 stadia. On the bordersof the lake lies the territory of Sodom, formerly aflourishing country, both on account of the abund­ance of its produce and the number of its cities;now it is all an arid waste. It is said that it wasdestroyed by lightning, on account of the wickednessof its inhabitants. The traces of tho heavenly lireand the ruins of five cities may still be seen; andashes are found even in the fruits, which are of anappearance resembling the edible kinds, but which,when plucked, turn into smoke and ashes. Suchconfirmation do the legends concerning the land ofSodom receive from actual observation." (Joseph.B. J. iv. 8. § 4.) The Dead Sea and its marveLn was a subjectsuited to the inquiring spirit of the naturalist; andPliny's account, though brief, is reniHrkably clearand accurate, except that, in common with allwriters, he greatly overstates its size. He wroteprobably too soon (a. d. 74) after Josephus to availhimself of his account, end may, therefore, be re­garded as an independent authority. "This lake produces nothing but bitumen, from