OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 279 in every province of the empire, against the son of Valerian. Itwas probably some ingenious fancy, of comparing the thirtytyrants of Rome with the thirty tyrants of Athens, that induced thewriters of the Augustan history, to select that celebrated numberwhich has been gradually received into a popular appellation'56.But in every light the parallel is idle and defective. What resem­blance can we discover between a council of thirty persons, theunited oppressors of a single city, and an uncertain list of independ­ent rivals, who rose and fell in irregular succession, through the ex­tent of a vast empire? Nor can the number of thirty be completedunless we include in the account the women and children, who werehonoured with the imperial title. The reign of Gallienus, distracted Their real "... , "number was as it was, produced only nineteen pretenders to the throne; Cy" 00 m.<ve than-'riades, Macrianus, Balista, Odenathus, and Zenobia in the east; nmeIeen*in Gaul, and the western provinces, Postumus, Lollianus, Victo-rinus and his mother Victoria, Marius, and Tetricus. In Illyricumand the confines of the Danube, Ingenuus, Regillianus and Au-reolus; in Pontus ,S7, Saturninus; in Isauria, Trebellianus; Pisoin Thessaly; Valens in Achaia; Æmilianus in Egypt; and Celsusin Africa. To illustrate the obscure monuments of the life anddeath of each individual, would prove a laborious task, alike barrenof instruction and of amusement. We may content ourselves withinvestigating some general characters, that most strongly mark thecondition of the times, and the manners of the men, their preten­sions, their motives, their fate, and the destructive consequences oftheir usurpation ,j8. It is sufficiently known, that the odious appellation of Tyrant was Characterandoften employed by the ancients to express the illegal seizure of tyrant".''supreme power, without any reference to the abuse of it. Severalof the pretenders, who raised the standard of rebellion against theemperor Gallienus, were shining models of virtue, and almost allpossessed a considerable share of vigour and ability. Their merjt had