OCR Output C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 49 upon him, would not have sent to him a friend of his own, norput the fairest color upon the vilest action, by pretendingfriendship and meaning perfidiousness; nor would he havehimself acquiesced, or come to him, had it been to deceive him. 3. Now, as Josephus began to hesitate with himself aboutNicanor's proposal, the soldiery were so angry that they ranhastily to set fire to the den; but the tribune would not permitthem so to do, as being very desirous to take the man alive.And now, as Nicanor lay hard at Josephus to comply, and heunderstood how the multitude of the enemies threatened him,he called to mind the dreams which he had dreamed in thonight-time, whereby .God had signified to him beforehand boththe future calamities of the Jews and the events that concernedthe Roman emperors. Now Josephus was able to give shrewdconjectures about the interpretation of such dreams as havebeen ambiguously delivered by God. Moreover, he was notunacquainted with the prophecies contained in the sacredbooks, as being a priest himself, and of the posterity of priests;and just then was he in an eestacy, and setting before himthe tremendous images of the dreams he had lately had, heput up a secret prayer to God, and said, — " Since it pleaseththee, who hath created the Jewish nation, to depress the same,and since all their good fortune is gone over to the Romans,and since thou hast made choice of this soul of mine to fore­tell what is to come to pass hereafter, I willingly give theemy hands, and am content to live. And I protest openly thatI do not go over to the Romans as a deserter of the Jews, butas a minister from thee." 4. When he had said this, he complied with Nicanor'sinvitation. But when those Jews who had fled with himunderstood that ho yielded to those that invited him to comeup, they came about him in a body, and cried out, — " Nay,indeed, now may the laws of our forefathers, which Godordained himself, well groan to purpose; that God, we mean,who hath created the souls of the Jews of such a temperthat they despise death. O Josephus ! art thou still fond oflife? and canst thou bear to see the light in a state ofslavery? How soon hast thou forgotten thyself? How IV.—5