OCR Output A. D.21.] OF TACITUS. 165 bate hy the same Corbulo. The highways, he said,were in a bad condition throughout Italy, neglectedevery where, and in some places impassable. He im­puted the mischief to the fraudulent practices of con­tractors, and the inattention of the magistrates. Hewas desired to superintend the business; but the ad­vantage, whatever it was, that accrued to the public,did not counterbalance the ruin of individuals, whoBuffered, both in reputation and fortune, by the harshdecision of Corbulo, and the confiscation of theireifects. XXXII. In a short time after, the senate receiveddespatches from Tiberius, with intelligence thatAfrica was again alarmed by the incursions of Tae-farinas. The occasion, the emperor said, required aproconsul of military talents, and vigour equal to thefatigues of war; but the choice was left to the judg­ment of the fathers. Sextus Pompeius seized thisopportunity to launch out in a bitter invective againstMarcus Lepidus, v'iom he styled a man void of cou­rage, destitute of fortune, a disgrace to his ancestors,and by no means fit to be entrusted with the go­vernment of Asia, which had then fallen to his lot.The senate was of a different opinion. What wascalled want of courage, according to them, was mild­ness of disposition; his indigence was a misfortune,not a disgrace; nor could it be deemed a fair objec­tion to a man, who, in narrow circumstances, sup- .ported the dignity of his ancestors, and lived in ho­nourable poverty, with an unblemished character. Hewas therefore declared proconsul of Asia. Thechoice of a governor to command in Africa, was by adecree, reserved for the decision of the emperor. XXXIII. In the course of the debate, a motion wasmade by Csecina Severus, that the governors of pro­vinces should be no longer accompanied by theirwives. He prefaced the business with repeated de­clarations, that between him and his wife, who hadbrought him six children, the truest harmony subsist­ed ; and yet the law, which he now proposed, hadever been the rule of his own conduct; insomuch thatin a series of forty years, during which time he had