OCR Output 812 ROMA. ROMA. Whence we may perhaps conclude that the bathsalso were near the same spot (v. PreUer, AV/wmen,p. 200; Canina, Indian, p. 533, icq.), where they•seem to be indicated by the Capitoline plan (HelJori,tav. 4) and by traces of ruins. The baths ofDeems are mentioned by Kutropius (ix. 4). Nearthe same .spot Appears to have been the House ofTrajak before he became emperor, designated in theKotitia as Privata Trajani, in which neighbourhoodan inscription relating to a Domus Ulpionun wasfound. (Grater, xlv. 10.) Hence we may concludethat under the Empire the Avetitine had become amore fashionable residence than during the Republic,when it seems to have been principally inhabited byplebeian families. The residence of Knnius, who, aswe have said, possessed a house here, was, however,Sufficient to ennoble it. The narrow strip of ground between tlie hill andthe Tiber also belonged to the district of the Aven-tine. In ancient times it was called "ExtraI'oktam Tkhikminam," and was one of the busiestparts of the city, in consequence of its containingthe emporium, or harbour of discharge for alt lailenships coming up the river. Here also was the prin­cipal corn-market, and the Basil CapitoHma men** Hons a Vicus Frnmentarins in this neighbourhood.The period of its development was between theSecond and Third Runic Wars, when the aediles M.Aemilius Lepidos and L. Aemilius Paullns firstfounded a regular EMPORIUM, and at the same timethePOKTICUSAkmilta. (Liv.xxxv. 10.) Theirsuc-cessors, M. Tuccius and 1\ Junius Urutus, foundeda second jx>rtico inter lignarios, which epithet seemsto refer to the timber yards at this spot. (Id. xxxv.41.) Subsequently, in the censorship of If. AemiliusLepidos and SI. Fulvius Nobilior, the building of aharbour and of a bridge over the Tiber was commenced,as well as the foundation of a market and of other por­ticoes. (Liv. xl. 51.) The next censors, Q. FulviusFlaccus and A. Postumius Albinue, paved the em­porium with slabs of stone, constructed stairs lead-ing down to the river, restored the Portions Aemilia,ami built another portico on the summit of theAventine. (Lit, xli. 27.) The neighlwurhood stillhears the name of La Murmwata; and as numerousblocks of unwrought marble have at different timesbeen discovered near the Vigna Ccmrini, sometimesbearing numbers and the names of the exporters, itseems to have been the principal place for landingforeign marbles, and perhaps also tor t he workshopsof the sculptors. (Vacca, Mem. 9;>—98; Fea,Miscett. i. p. 1*3; Bunsen. Heschr. \\\. p. 432.) Justin this neighbourhood stood a temple of Jl imtkkDouches US or Dolicenus, indicated in the Sotitiaunder the name of Doloccnum. It is connectedwith the worship of the sun-god, brought fromHeliopolis in Syria, concerning which there are nu­merous inscriptions, treated of by Marini {Atti, <*&pp. 538—.r)48). In these the god is called J up. 0.M. Dolichenus. and sometimes a Juno Assyria Ke-gina Oolicliena is also mentioned. The worship re­sembled that brought to Rome by Elagabaltts, but wasprevious to it, as some of the inscriptions relate tothe time of Commodus. The temple seems to havebeen in the neighbourhood of S. Alessin, as scTeralinscriptions relating to the god were found here,(l'rellcr, Heg'umm. p. 202.) The broad level to theS. of the hill in which theMonte Testaceio stands, probably contained the largeand important magazines mentioned in the Xotitia,such as the UouuEAitALbiAXA kt Ank.iana,which seem to hare been a kind of warehouses for ttanttported goods. They are sometimes mentioned a is»script ions. (Gruter, liar. 1; Orell. 45.) The MmTeitaccio itself is an artificial hill of potihenU. \>high according to Conti, and about one-third of isin circumference. Its origin is enveloped in nAccording to the vulgar legend it wis compithe fragments of vessels in wbkJb thenations brought their tribute, A manopinion was that tins was the quarter of it* |teries, and that the hill rose from the ptrtssiin the process of manufacture; but thai Irefuted by the discovery of a tomb, curing tat Icavation of some cares in the interior taiwine-cellars. (ifon-Ar. iii. p. 434.) Tbe »bat|trict round the hill is strewed to s depth sf I20 feet with the same sort of rubbish; tat]Ostiensis, built by Honorios, stands oe tail Itious soil, which is thus prored to hs*e ithe beginning of the fifth century; but ittiwill never, perhaps, be explained. The hist object we need mention betFori m RisTouiuM, or Bakers' Market, iapparently not because they nude or soli Igoods here, but because this was the pistesthey bought their corn. We nut remarkwas just opposite this point, under lb* jthat the corn-mills la;. (Preller, Rtgia VIII. The Velarium. Foki m Boaara,Jducts Maxlmvs. Between the Palatine, the Aventiae,Tiber, the level ground was occupied by1tricts called the Velabrum and fhe For™whilst the valley between the two hillswas the site of the Circus Maximo*. U'the object of the present section to describe 1tricts and the monuments which they coataiwere comprehended in the 11 th Regies of icalled " Circus Maximus." of which the'formed the boundary on the X.. where it j8th Hegion. or " Forum Romanom.* All accounts conspire in representba;ttBJnict'M as a marsh, or lake, at the time iwas founded, whence we may concludenot have been built npon till the jrc-inc Ithoroughly drained by the construction of IMaxima. Thus Tibullus (ii. 5. 33): —"At <[ua Velabri regio patet, ire iExiguus pulsa per rada 1 (Cf. Varr. L. L. v. 43, seq. Miill.; Proj. Ii >v. Fait. vi. 399, &c.) Its situation'Vicus Tnscus and Forum Baarium isfrom the descriptions of tbe route taken by tand festal processions. (LiT. xxrii. 37.I'lut. Am. v. &c.) Its breadth, that is. jsion between the Vicus TuscusBoarium, cannot be accurately determiaed.bnot to have been very great. Itathe S. was by the Areas Arjrntmnavmodem church of S. Giorgio m V.marked the entrance into tbe Fanun 1site of the Velabrum is also piviieg by Iwhich connect it with tbe Norm ViKomanula, and the sepulchre of Ac(Varr. /. /,. vi. § 24, MulL: cf. CSe. i15; Macron. S. i. la) It ithe Sacklixm Volvpiab, whichNova Via. should be assigned to tke'to the Palatine. (Van. Ib. t. § I64>;