OCR Output 476 OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA. which was covered in the more finished parts by asurface of stucco, which pave it the appearance ofmarble. It waa of the Doric order, ami a peripteralhexaatyle building. Accordingly it bad six columnsin the front and thirteen on the sides. The co­lumns were fluted, and 7ft. 4m. in diameter, a sizegreater than that of any other existing columns of aGrecian temple. The length of the temple was 230Greek feet, the breadth 95, the height to the sum­mit of the pediment 68. The roof was coveredwith slabs of Pentelic marble in the form of tiles.At each end of the pediment stood a gilded vase,and on the apex a gilded statue of Nike or Victory;below which was a golden shield with the head ofMedusa in the middle, dedicated by the Lacedaemo­nians on account of their victory over the Atheniansat Tanagra in n. c. 457. The two pediments were jfilled with figures. The eastern pediment had astatue of Zeus in the centre, with Oenomaus on his iright and Pelopx on his left, prepared to contend inthe chariot-race; the figures un cither side consistedof their attendants, and in the angles were the tworivers, Cladeus to the right of Zeus, and Alpheiua to his left. In the western pediment wis lift s&test of the Centaurs and the Lapitbae. Perntboaoccupying the central place. On the mttopw mthe doors at the eastern and western end* the asmof Hercules were represented. In its interior«■st ruction the temple resembled the Fartheiwn. 71cella consisted of two chambers, of which the oasjcontained the statue, and the western wis called itOpusthodomus. The colossal statue of Ztus, umaster-work of Pheidias, was made of irory ■gold. It stood at the end of the front chamberthe cella, directly facing the entrance, so that itionce showed it>elf in all its grandeur to a saltator entering the temple. The approach to Mbetween a double row of columns, supporting!roof. The cod was seated on a macnificrtit tfadorned with sculptures, a full description of ias well as of the statue, has been given insplace. [Diet of BUxjr. Vol. III. p. 252.]the Opisthodomoa of the temple was the CaiHUM or wild olive tree, which furnished the (of the Olympic victors. (Pans. v. 15. § S.) "3 :! lit I" • • i • 1 m GROUND PLAN OF THE OLTMPIEICM. 2. The Pdopmm stood opposite the temple ofZeus, on the other side of the Pompic way. Its po­sition is defined by Pansanias, who says that itStood to the right of the entrance into the temple ofZeus and to the north of that building. It was anenclosure, containing trees and statues, having anopening to the west. (Palis, v. 13. § 1.) 3. The Ueraeum was the must important templein the Altis after that of Zeus It was also a Doricperipteral building. Its dimensions are unknown.Pansanias says (v. 1G. § 1) that it was 63 feet inlength: but this is clearly a mistake, since no perip­teral building was so small; and the numerousstatues in the cella, described by Pansanias, clearlyshow that it must have been of considerable dimen­sions. The two most remarkable monuments in thellerneum were the table, on which were placed thegarlands prepared for the victors in the Olympiccontests, and the celebrated chest of CypselttS,covered with figures in relief, of which Pausaniaslias given an elaborate description (v. 17—19). Welearn from a passage of Dion Chrysostom (Oral. si.p. 163), cited by Leake, that this chest stood in theopisthodomus of the Heraenm; whence we mayinfer that the cella of the temple consisted of twoapartments. 4. The Grtat Altar of Zem is described byPausanias as equidistant from the Pelopium and theHeraeum, and as being in front of them both. I (Pans. v. 13. § 8.) Leake places the Haw near the IV-mpic entrance of the Stadium, ij>o>es that it faced ea>tward; accordingly Ijectures that the altar was opposite to 1"fronts of the Pelopium and the Hetotal height of the altar was 22 feet. It iplatforms, of which the upper was made of Iders of the thighs sacrificed on this and c 5. The Column of Oenomaus sluedgreat altar and the temple of Zeus. It lhave belonged to the house of Oenocnaua, Ihave been the only part of the building mhkcaped when it was burnt by lightning, (h20. § G.) 6. The .Vetrottm, or temple of the Mother Gods, was a large Doric building, situthe Altis (Pans. v. 20. § 9.) It is placed Ito the left of the Pompic Way nearly <Heraeum. 7. The Piytaneium is placed by ]the Altis, near the Gymnasium, which jthe sacred enclosure (v. 15. § S.) 8. The Btmleuttrion^ or Council-Hohave Wen near the Prvtaneium. (P»u24. § I.) 9. The Philippeinm, a circular bulkby Philip after the battle of Chaeroneia, 1left in proceeding from the entrance of lthe Prvtaneium. (Pan*, v. 17. § 4, v. *a j