OCR Output 251 LIVY. ing such departure, though they had received ordersto that purpose from the senate. They had also muchanxiety concerning the final issue of affairs, now thatthe whole weight of the war fell on one general andhis army. About the same time ambassadors arrivedfrom Saguntum, bringing with them some Carthagi­nians who had come over to Spain to hire auxiliaries,and whom they had seized, together with .their money.They laid down in the porch of the senate-house twohundred and fifty pounds weight of gold and eighty ofsilver. The agents were thrown into prison; the goldand silver were returned, and thanks given to the Sa-guntines; presents were made to them besides, andships provided to convey them home to Spain. Someof the older senators then observed, that ' Men hadless lively sensations of good than of evil. Did theyremember what terror and consternation Hannibal'scoming into Italy had excited? What losses they hadsustained, and what lamentations had followed? Whenthe Carthaginian camp was seen from the walls of thecity, what vows were then offered up by each particu­lar person and by the whole body of the people!How often, in their assemblies, were their handsstretched out towards heaven, and exclamations heard—O! will that day ever arrive, when we shall seeItaly cleared of the enemy, and blessed once morewith the enjoyment of peace? That now, at length, inthe sixteenth year, the gods had granted their wish,and yet not the slightest proposal had been made ofreturning thanks to the gods. So deficient are men ingratitude, even at the time when a favor is received;and much less are they apt to retain a proper sense ofit afterwards.' Immediately, a general exclamationbroke forth from every part of the senate-house, thatPublius jElius the pretor, should take the sense of thesenate on the subject; and a decree passed, that a sup­plication should be solemnised in all the temples forfive days, and a hundred and twenty of the greatervictims offered in sacrifice.• 22. After Laelius and Masinissa's ambassadors were