OCR Output 128 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. on the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their inde-xxxv. pendence was soon evaded by a formidable neigh­bour, who had acquired, by arms and treaties, thesovereignty of Iberia. The dependent king of Lazicareceived his sceptre at the hands of the Persian mon­arch, and the successors of Constantine acquiescedin this injurious claim, which was proudly urged as aConversion right of immemorial prescription. In the beginninga.'d. 522!' oftne sixth century, their influence was restored bythe introduction of Christianity, which the Mingre-lians still profess, without understanding the doc­trines, or observing the precepts, of their religion.After the decease of his father, Zathus was exaltedto the regal dignity by the favour of the great king;but the pious youth abhorred the ceremonies of theMagi, and sought, in the palace of Constantinople,an orthodox baptism, a noble wife, and the allianceof the emperor Justin. The king of Lazica was so­lemnly invested with the diadem, and his cloak andtunic of white silk, with a gold border, displayed, inrich embroidery, the figure of his new patron; whosoothed the jealousy of the Persian court, and ex­cused the revolt of Colchos, by the venerable namesof hospitality and religion. The common interest ofboth empires imposed on the Colchians the duty ofguarding the passes of mount Caucasus, where a wallof sixty miles is now defended by the monthly serviceof the musqueteers of Mingrelia *.Revolt and But this honourable connexion was soon corruptedof the coi- by the avarice and ambition of the Romans. De-a!d!'542 graded from the rank of allies, the Lazi were in-—549- cessantly reminded, by words and actions, of theirdependent state. At the distance of a day's journeybeyond the Apsarus, they beheld the rising fortressof Petra, which commanded the maritime country to • John Malala, Chron. tom. ii. p. 134—137. Theophanes, p. 144. Hist.Miscell. I. xv. p. 103. The fact is authentic, but the date seems too recent.