OCR Output *32 ROMA. ROMA. its having been the residence of Belisarius duringhis defence of Iiome. It is the same building men­tioned by ProcopitU under the name of iraXdrtov.(Procop. B. G. ii. 8. 9; Anastasius, V. Silver, pp.104. 106, Blanch) The part of the Mil includedwithin the later city was bounded by the wall ofAurelian, hy tlie valiey irhicfa separates the Pincianfrom the Quirinal, and by the Campus Martius onthe west. The most famous place on the Pincian was theGARDENS of LuCULLITS. Their situation is de­termined by a passage in Frontinus, from which welearn that the arches of the Aqua Virgo began un­der them. (Aq. 2.) This must have been in thestreet called Capo le Case, since the arches are stillin existence from that spot to the Fontami dt Trevi.(Can'ma, Indie, p. 395.) The early history of thesegardens is obscure. They were probably formedby a Lucullus, and subsequently came into the pos­session of Valerius Asiaticus, hy whom they wereso much improved that Measalina's desire of pos­sessing them caused the death of Valerius. (Tac.Ann. xi. 1, 32, 37.) They appear to have been alsocalled after him " Horti Asiatici" (Becker. Handb.p. 591). and it is possible, as we have said before,that they may sometimes have borne the name of"Horti Valeriani."' They were the scene of Messa-lina's infamous marriage with Sillus (Juv. S. x.334) and of her death hy the order of Claudius.(Tac Ann. xi. 37.) The gardens remained in thepossession of the imperial family, and were reckonedthe finest they had. (Plut. Lucull. 39.) The fa­mily of the Domitii, to which Nero belonged, hadpreviously possessed property, or at all events asepulchre, on the Pincian; and it was here that theashes of that emperor were deposited. (Suet. Ntr.50.) Popular tradition places it on that part ofthe hill which overhangs the church of S. Mariadel Popolo near the gate of the same name. XIII. The Campus Martius, Circus Fla-minius, and Via Lata. The whole plain which lies between the Pincian,Quirinal, and Capitoline hills on the E. and theTiber on the W,,—on which the principal part ofmodern Home stands,—may be designated generallyby the name of Campus Martius, though strictlyspeaking it was divided into three separate dis­tricts. It is narrow at the northern part be­tween the Pincian and the river, but afterwardsexpands to a considerable breadth by the windingof the Tiber. It is terminated by the approachof the latter to the Capitoline hill, between whichand the stream a part of the Servian wall formingits southern boundary anciently ran. It was cutthrough its whole length by a straight road, verynearly corresponding with the modern Corso, run­ning from the Porta Flaminia to the foot of the Ca­pitol. The southern part of the district lying be­tween this road and the hills formed, under thename of Via Lata, the 7th of the Augustan Regions;but how far it extended to the N. cannot be de­termined. From its northern boundary, whereverit may have been, to the Porta Flaminia and beyondthat gatG, the road before described was called ViaFlaminia. The southern portion of the CampusMartius lying between the same road and the Tiber,as fur N. as the modern Piazza Savona and PiazzaCotonna, constituted the 9th Region of Augustus,under the name of Circus Flaminius. In the earlier times all this district between the bills and the river was private prupsty.iaA applied to agricultural purpose*. Werelated in the former part of this article, aw,the expulsion of the Tarqains, the Camp**was assigned, or rather perhaps reatawd, kpublic use. But the southern portion of tatappears still to have belonged to priTateThe most considerable of there prim MinnsPkata Flaminia, or Campus Fuuinrrrvhowever, must soon have become poblicsince we find that assemblies of the people wt»here under the decemvirs. (Liv. iiL 54.)these private estates must have beenCati, in which was a fountain whencicalled Petronia flowed into the Tiber, andhave formed the southern boundary ofCampusMartius('* Petroniaamnis*tluens, quam magistratus auspkaloCampo quid agere volunt," Fest p. 250; <LDiac. p. 45); also the CAMrus Inproperty of the vestal Taracia, or Sttffeoa,she presented to the people. (Plin. inrr. 1 We shall begin the description of thisfrom its southern side; that is, from thewall between the Capitoline hill and tie 9Immediately before the Porta CannentalaForum Omtorium. It was, as its torn*the vegetable market. (Van*. L.L.The Eunui Herbarius, or bronzeelephant, which stood near the boundary ofRegion (v. Xotitia) lias by MJtne topographconnected with this forum, merely, it wordsfrom the epithet herbarius; but the wall amade here a decided separation betweenand 9th Regions. There were several Uthe Forum Olitorium, as those of Spea,So* pit a, of Pietas, and of Janos. The TiSpes was founded by M. Atilius CalatinFirst Punic War. (Tac. Ann. ii. 49; Ck.ii. 23; Liv. xxi. 62.) It was destroyed afire which devastated this neighbourhoodSecond Punic War (Lir. xxir. 47\soon rebuilt, was again burnt down in ft. c Iwhich the restored temple was dedicatedmanicus. (Tac /. c.) The Tejvtu «was consecrated by C. Cornelius Cethe^wThere is a confusion in Ijvy 195. names of SosriTA and Matuta »n-«ddeity (..Ti; 30, ZXJUT. S3); mnd it ■to decide which epithet but be the corThe Temple of Pietas is connected Iwell-known legend of the Romannourished her father (or mother)with the milk of her breast, and is sad t»sided on the spot where the temple wai(Festus, p. 209 ; Val. Max. ii. 5. § I.) Itcated in B. c. 180 by the son of M. Ac ilia*in pursuance of a vow made by hisday when he engaged kingmopylae. (Lir. xl. 34.) It was pall*order to make room for the theatre of(Plin. vii. 36.) There appears,been another temple of Pietas in the Clminius itself. (Jul. Obs. 114.) C _Temple of Janus, to which we ban alrsalverted in the former part of this article. TWaportion of the Forum Olitoriom moat have halgrossed by the Theatke or Hajccvxxt'm. af 4we shall speak in another section; aaa 4therefore be doubtedthe purposes of a