OCR Output 204 THE DECLINE AND PALL source of life and immortality expired jpn mount Calvary. These alarming con»sequences were affirmed with unblushing simplicity by Apollinaris,(l) bishop ofLaodicea, and one of the luminaries of the church. The son of a learned gram­marian, he was skilled in all the sciences of Greece; eloquence, erudition, andphilosophy, conspicuous in the volumes of Apollinaris, were humbly devoted tothe service of religion. The worthy friend of Athanasius, the worthy antagonistof Julian, he bravely wrestled with the Arians and polytheists, and, though he af­fected the rigour of geometrical demonstration, his commentaries revealed the li­teral and allegorical sense of the Scriptures. A mystery, which had long floatedin the looseness of popular belief, was defined by his perverse diligence in a tech­nical form; and he first proclaimed the memorable words,—" One incarnate na­ture of Christ," which are still re-echoed with hostile clamours in the churchesof Asia, Egypt and Ethiopia. He taught that the Godhead was united or mingledwith the body of a man; and that the Logos, the eternal Wisdom, supplied inthe flesh the place and office of a human soul. Yet as the profound doctor hadbeen terrified at his own rashness, Apollinaris was heard to mutter some faint ac­cents of excuse and explanation. He acquiesced in the old distinction of theGreek philosophers, between the rational and sensitive soul of man; that he mightreserve the Logos for intellectual functions, and employ the subordinate humanprinciple in the meaner actions of animal life. With the moderate Docetes, herevered Mary as the spiritual rather than as the carnal, mother of Christ, whosebody either came from heaven, impassable and incorruptible, or was absorbed,and, as it were, transformed, into the essence of the Deity. The system of Apol­linaris was strenuously encountered by the Asiatics and Syrian divines, whoseschools are honoured by the names of Basil, Gregory, and Chrysostom, and taint­ed by those of Diodorus, Theodoric, and Nestorius. But the person of the agedbishop of Laodicea, his character and dignity, remained inviolate, and his rivals,since we may not suspect them of the weakness of toleration, were astonished,perhaps by the novelty of the argument, and diffident of the final sentence of thecatholic church. Her judgment at length inclined in their favour; the heresy ofApollinaris was condemned, and the separate congregations of his disciples wereproscribed by the imperial laws. But his principles were secretly entertained inthe monasteries of Egypt, and his enemies felt the hatred of Theophilus and Cy­ril, the successive patriarchs of Alexandria. V. The grovelling Ebionite, and the fantastic Docetes, were rejected and for­gotten; the recent zeal against the errors of Apollinaris, reduced the catholics toa seeming agreement with the double nature of Cerinthus. But, instead of a tem­porary and occasional alliance they established, and we still embrace, the substan­tial, indissoluble, and everlasting union of a perfect God with a perfect man, orthe second person of the trinity with a reasonable soul and human flesh. In thebeginning of the fifth century, the unity of the two natures was the prevailingdoctrine of the church. On all sides, it was confessed, that the mode of their co­existence could neither be represented by our ideas, nor expressed by our lan­guage. Yet a secret and incurable discord was cherished between those who weremost apprehensive of confounding, and those who were most fearful of sepa­rating, the divinity and the humanity of Christ. Impelled by religious frenzy,they fled with adverse haste from the error which they mutually deemed mostdestructive of truth and salvation. On either hand they were anxious to guard,they were jealous to defend, the union and the distinction of the two natures,and to invent such forms of speech, such symbols of doctrine, as were leastsusceptible of doubt or ambiguity. The poverty of ideas and language temptedthem to ransack art and nature for every possible comparison, and each com­parison misled their fancy in the explanation of an incomparable mystery. Inthe polemic microscope, an atom is enlarged to a monster, and each party was skil­ful to exaggerate the absurd or impious conclusions that might be extorted fromthe principles of their adversaries. To escape from each other, they wanderedthrough many a dark and devious thicket, till they were astonished by the horridphantoms of Cerinthus and Apollinaris, who guarded the opposite issues of thetheological labyrinth. As soon as they beheld the twilight ot sense and heresy, (1) t"or Apollinaris and his sect, see Socrates, lib. ii. c. 46. lib. iii. c. 16. Sozomen, lib. v. c. 18. lib. vi. c. 31—27. Theoiforet, lib. v. 3.10,11. Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiquet, tonj. Yij. p. 602—638. Not. p. 788—794.in quarto, Venise, 1732. The cotemporary saints always mention the Bishop ot Laodicea as a friend and bro­ther. The style of the more recent historians is harsh and hostile; yet Philostoreius compares him (lib. viii. c.31-15.)to Basil and Gregory.