OCR Output C. VII.] ANTIOCIIUS, KING OF COMMAGENE. 323 which he gave them for their habitation: it is called Emmausj-and is distant from Jerusalem threescore furlongs. He alsopaid a tribute upon the Jews wheresoever they were, andenjoined every one of them to bring two drachmae every yearinto the capitol, as they used to pay the same to the templeat Jerusalem. And this was the state of the Jewish affairsat this time. CHAPTER VII. CONCERNING THE CALAMITY THAT BEFELL ANTIOCIIUS, KINGOF COMMAGENE; AS ALSO CONCERNING THE ALANS, ANDWHAT OREAT MISCHIEFS THEY DID TO THE MEDES ANDARMENIANS. § 1. And now, in the fourth year of the reign of Vespasian,it came to pass that Antiochus, the king of Commagene, withall his family, fell into very great calamities. The occasionwas this. — Cecennius Petus, who was president of Syria atthis time, whether it were done out of regard to truth, orwhether out of hatred to Antiochus (for which was the realmotive was never thoroughly discovered,) sent an epistle toCaesar, and therein told him that " Antiochus, with his sonEpiphanes, had resolved to rebel against the Romans, and hadmade a league with the king of Parthia to that purpose: thatit was, therefore, fit to prevent them, lest they prevent us,and begin such a war as may cause a general disturbance inthe Roman empire." Now Caesar was disposed to take some 1 That the city of Emmaus or Ammaus in Josephus and others, which wasthe place of the government of Julius Africanus, in the beginning of thethird century, and which he then procured to bo rebuilt, and after whichrebuilding it was called Nicopolis, is entirely different from that Ernmauswhich is mentioned by St. Luke, xxiv. 17; see Reland's Faloestina, lib. ii.page 429, and under tho same name Ammaus also. But he justly thinksthat in St. Luke may well bo tho same with this Ammaus before us, espe­cially since the Greek copies here usually make it 0O furlongs distant fromJerusalem, as does St. Luke, though the Latin copies say only 30. The placealso allotted for these 800 soldiers, as for a Roman garrison, in this place,would most naturally be not so remote from Jerusalem as was the otherEmmaus of Nicopolis.