OCR Output NARDINIUM. NARO. 399 k did also to Massalla. (Diod. v. 38.) There wasU Narbo a great variety of dress and of people, whowere attracted by the commercial advantages of theeity. It was adorned with public buildings, afterthe fashion of Roman towns. (Martial, viii. 72;Anson, ffarbo; Sid™. Apollin. Cam. 28.) Atemple of Parian marble, probably some poetical ex­aggeration, is spoken of by Ansonius: and Sidoniusenumerates, in half a dozen miserable lines, theglories of ancient Narbomt, its gates, porticoes,forum, theatre, and other things. He speaks of amint, and a bridge over the Atax. The coast ofKarbonme was and is famed for oysters. Not a single Roman monument is standing atXarbonme, but the sites of many buildings are ascer­tained. Numerous architectural fragments, friezes,bas-reliefs, tombstones, and inscriptions, still remain.Some inscriptions are or were preserved in thecourts and on the great staircase of the episcopalpalace. There is a museum of antiquities at Nar-bame, which contains fragments of mosaic, busts,beads, cinerary urns, and a great number of inscrip­tions. [G. L.] NARDINIUM (Nopjfiw, Ptol. ii. 6. § 34), atown of the Saelini, a tribe of the Astures, inHispania Tarraeonensis, probably near I'illalpandoon the Ezh. (Sestini, p. 172.) NARISCI, a German tribe of the Suevi, occupy­ing the country in the west of the Gabrcta Silva,and east of the Hennunduri. They extended in thenorth as far as the Sudeti Montes, and in the southm far as the Danube. In the reign of M. Aurclius,3000 of them emigrated southward into the Romanprovince. (Dion Cass. lxxi. 21, where they arecalled NapiirTal.) After the Marcomnnnian war,they completely disappear from history, and thecountry once occupied by them is inhabited, in thePeuting. Table, by a tribe called Armalsusi. (Tac.Grrm. 42; Jul. 'Capitol. M. Ant. 22^ Ptolemy(ii. 11. § 23) calls them Varisti (Ouapio-rof), whichis possibly the more genuine form of the name, sincein the middle ages a portion of the country once in­habited by them bore the name of Provincia Va-n*Mrum. [L. S.J S.VRXIA (Naprh, Strab., Ptol.: Elk. Narnicnsis:Aorm), one of the most important cities of Umbria,situated on the left bank of the river Nar, about 8miles above its confluence with the Tiber. It was onthe line of the Via Flaminia, by which it was distant56 miles from Rome. (Itin. Ant. p. 125; /fin. Ilier.p. 613; Westphal, Rdm. A'amp. p. 145.) It appearsto have been an ancient and important city of theCmbrians, and previous to the Roman conquest borethe narneof Neqlinum. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Liv. x.9: Stepb. Byi. writes the name Nnitoilia.) In B. c.300, it was besieged by the Roman consul Appu-leius; but its natural strength enabled it to defy hisarm*, and the siege was protracted till the next year,when it was at length surprised and taken by theconsul M. Fulvius, B. c. 299. (Liv. x. 9, 10.)'pul-vim wis in consequence honoured with a triumph"d> Sanmitibus Nequinatibusque" (F<ut.Capit.')\ andthe Roman senate determined to secure their newconquests by sending thither a colony, which assumedthe name of Namia from its position on the banksof the Sir. (Liv. x. 10.) It is strange that all men­tion of this colony is omitted by Velleius Paterculns;bat its name again occurs in Livy, in the list of thethin; Latin colonies during the Second Punio War.On that occasion (b. c 209), it was one of thosewhich professed themselves exhausted and unable any longer to bear the burdens of the war; for whichit was subsequently punished by the imposition of adoublecontingent and increased contribution in money.(Liv. xxvii. 9; xxix. 15.) Yet the complaint seems,in the case of Narnia at least, to have been wellfounded; for a few years afterwards (b. c. 199), thecolonists again represented their depressed conditionto the senate, and obtained the appointment of tri­umvirs, who recruited their numbers with a freshbody of settlers. (Id. xxxii. 2.) During the SecondPunic War, Narnia was the point at which, in b. c.207, an army was posted to oppose the threatenedadvance of Hasdrubal upon Rome; and hence it wassome Narnian horsemen who were the first to bringto the capital the tidings of the great victory at theMetanrus. (Liv. xxvii. 43. 50.) These are the onlynotices we find of Narnia under the republic, but itseems to have risen into a flourishing municipal town,and was one of the chief places in this part of Um­bria. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii.1. § 54.) It probably owed its prosperity to its posi­tion on the great Flaminian highway, as well as tothe great fertility of the subjacent plain. In the civilwar between Vitellius and Vespasian, Narnia bore animportant part, having been occupied by the generalsof the former as a stronghold, where they hoped tocheck the advance of the army of Vespasian; butthe increasing disaffection towards Vitellius causedthe troops at Namia to lay down their arms withoutresistance. (Tac. Hist. iii. 58—63. 67, 78.) Thenatural strength of Narnia, and its position as com­manding the Flaminian Way, also rendered it a fort­ress of the utmost importance during the Gothic wars ■of Belisarins and Narses. (Procop. B. G. 1. 16, 17;ii. 11; iv. 33.) It became an episcopal see at anearly period, and continued throughout the middleages to be a considerable town. The position of Narnia on a lofty hill, precipitouson more than one side, and half encircled by thewaters of the Nar, which wind through a deep andpicturesque wooded valley immediately below thetown, is alluded to by many ancient writers, anddescribed with great truthfulness and accuracy byClandian, as well as by the historian Procopius.(Claudian, de VI. Cons. Hon. 515—519; Sil. It.il.viii. 458 ; Martial, vii. 93; Procop. B. G. i. 17.)It was across this ravine, as well as the river Naritself, that the Via Flaminia was carried by a bridgeconstructed by Augustus, and which was consideredto surpass all other structures of the kind in bold­ness and elevation. Its ruins are still regarded withadmiration by all travellers to Rome. It consistedoriginally of three arches, built of massive blocks ofwhite marble; of these the one on the left bank isstill entire, and has a height of above sixty feet;the other two have fallen in, apparently from thofoundations of the central pier giving way; but allthe piers remain, and the imposing style of thewhole structure justifies the admiration which itappears to have excited in ancient as well as moderntimes. Martial alludes to the bridge of Namia as,even in his day, the great pride of tho place.(Procop. /. c.; Martial, vii. 93. 8; Cluvcr. Hal.p. 636; Eustace's Italy, vol. i. p. 339.) The em­peror Ncrva was a native of Narnia, though hisfamily would seem to have been of foreign extrac­tion. (Vict. Epit. 11 ; Caes. 12.) [E. H. B.] NARO (o Ndpu*, Ptol. ii. 16. § 5; Plin. iii. 26)Nar, Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 13; Narenum, Geogr.Rav. iv. 16: Narenta"), a river of Illyricum, whichScylax (pp. 8, 9) describes as navigable from its