OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. had extorted from the gods a seeming consent to hisown wishes, and those of the emperor. The journeyof Maximus through the cities of Asia displayed thetriumph of philosophic vanity; and the magistratesvied with each other in the honourable receptionwhich they prepared for the friend of their sovereign.Julian was pronouncing an oration before the senate,when he was informed of the arrival of Maximus.The emperor immediately interrupted his discourse,advanced to meet him, and, after a tender embrace,conducted him by the hand into the midst of theassembly; where he publicly acknowledged the be­nefits which he had derived from the instructions ofthe philosopher. Maximus *, who soon acquired theconfidence, and influenced the councils, of Julian,was insensibly corrupted by the temptations of acourt. His dress became more splendid, his de­meanour more lofty, and he was exposed, under asucceeding reign, to a disgraceful inquiry into themeans by which the disciple of Plato had accumu­lated, in the short duration of his favour, a veryscandalous proportion of wealth. Of the other phi­losophers and sophists, who were invited to the Im­perial residence by the choice of Julian, or by thesuccess of Maximus, few were able to preserve theirinnocence, or their reputation. The liberal gifts ofmoney, lands, and houses, were insufficient to satiatetheir rapacious avarice; and the indignation of thepeople was justly excited by the remembrance oftheir abject poverty and disinterested professions.The penetration of Julian could not always be de­ceived: but he was unwilling to despise the charac­ters of those men whose talents deserved his esteem; * Eunapius (in Maximo, p. 77, 78, 79, and in Chrysanthio, p. 147, 148.)has minutely related these anecdotes, which he conceives to be the most import­ant events of the age. Yet he fairly confesses the frailty of Maximns. His re­ception at Constantinople is described by Libanius (OraL Parent. c, 86, p. 301.)and Ammianus (xxii. 7.). p 2