OCR Output B. I. . INTRODUCTION. 77 raise their siege from iEgina. The Athenians however re­called not their army from iEgina, but marched away all theold and young that were left in Athens to the aid of Megara,under the command of Myronides: And having fought adrawn battle against the Corinthians, both sides retired, andboth sides looked upon themselves as not worsted in theaction. The Athenians however, upon the departure of theCorinthians, as being at least so far victorious, erected a tro­phy. The Corinthians at their return heard nothing but re­proaches from the seniors in Corinth: so, after bestowing aninterval of about twelve days to recruit, they came backagain; and, to lay their claim also to the victory, set abouterecting a trophy of opposition. Upon this, the Athenianssallying with a shout out of Megara, put those who were busyin erecting this trophy to the sword, and routed all who endea­voured to oppose them. The vanquished Corinthians wereforced to fly; and no small part of their number, being closelypursued and driven from any certain route, were chased intothe ground of a private person, which happened to be encom­passed with a ditch so deep as to be quite impassable, andthere was no getting out. The Athenians, perceiving this,drew up all their heavy-armed to front them, and then form­ing their light-armed in a circle round them, stoned everyman of them to death. This was a calamitous event to theCorinthians: But the bulk of their force got home safe againfrom this unhappy expedition. About this time also the Athenians began to build thelong-walls reaching down to the sea, both towards the Pha-lerus and towards the Piraus. The Phocians were now embroiled with the Dorians,from whom the Lacedaemonians are descended. Havingmade some attempts on Boeon, and Cytinium, and Erineus,and taken one of those places, the Lacedaemonians marchedout to succour the Dorians with fifteen hundred heavy-armedof their natives, and ten thousand of their allies commandedby Nicomedes the son of Cleombrotus in the right of Pleis» Vol. I. 2 A