OCR Output C n.] SURRENDER OF GISCHALA. 83 thither. It was also naturally strong, and the walls thatwere built round it made him not a little concerned about it.Moreover, he esteemed the men that were in it to be so coura­geous and bold, that even without the consideration of thewalls, it would bo hard to subdue them; for which reason hetook care of and exercised his soldiers beforehand for thework, as they do wrestlers before they begin their under­taking. 2. Now Titus, as he rode up to Gischala, found it wouldbe easy for him to take the city upon the first onset; butknew withal, that if he took it by force, the multitude wouldbe destroyed by the soldiers without mercy. (Now he wasalready satiated with the shedding of blood, and pitied themajor part, who would then perish without distinction, toge­ther with the guilty.) So he was rather desirous the citymight be surrendered up to him on terms. Accordingly,when he saw the wall full of those men that were of the cor­rupted party, he said to them, that "he could not but wonderwhat it was they depended on, when they alone stayed tofight the Romans, after every other city was taken by them,especially when they have seen cities much better fortifiedthan theirs is overthrown by a single attack upon them ; whileas many as have intrusted themselves to the security of theRomans' right hands, which he now offers to them, withoutregarding their former insolence, do enjoy their own posses­sions in safety: for that while they had hopes of recoveringtheir liberty, they might be pardoned; but that their con­tinuance still in their opposition, when they saw that to beimpossible, was inexcusable : for that if they will not complywith such humane offers, and right hands for security, theyshould have experience of such a war as would spare nobody,and should soon be made sensible that their wall would bebut a trifle when battered by the Roman machines; in de­pending on which they demonstrate themselves to be theonly Galileans that were no better than arrogant slaves andcaptives." 3. Now none of the populace durst not only make a reply,but durst not so much as get upon the wall, for it was all