OCR Output 82 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. lay, he was brought. Then Tiberius asked him, what he had tosay against a man who had given him his liberty ? Upon whichhe said, " O my lord ! this Caius, and Agrippa with him, were" once riding in a chariot, when I sat at their feet, and among" other discourses that passed, Agrippa'said to Cains, O that the" day would once come, when this old fellow will die, and" name thee for the governor of the habitable earth ! for then" this Tiberius, his grand-son, would bs no hindrance, but" would be taken off by thee, and that earth would be happy," and I happy also." Now, Tiberius took these to be trulyAgrippa's words, and bearing a grudge withal at Agrippa, be­cause, when he had commanded him to pay his respects* to Ti--berius, his grandson, and the son of Drusus, Agrippa had notpaid him that respect, but had- disobeyed his commands, andtransferred all their regard to Caius ; he said to Macro, " Bind'' this man." But Macro, not distinctly knowing which of themit Was whom he bid him bind, and not expecting that he wouldhave any such thing done to Agrippa, he forbore, and eame toask more distinctly what it was that he said ? But, when Caesarhad gone round the hippodrome, he found Agrippa standing :«' For certain," said he, " Macro, this is the man I meant to" have bound:" and when he still asked, " Which of these is to" be bound ?" he said, " Agrippa." Upon which Agrippa be­took himself to make supplication for himself, putting him inmind of his son, with whom he was brought up,' and of Tiberius[his grandson] whom he had educated : but all to no purpose';for they led him about bound even in his purple garments.It was also very hot weather, and they had but little wineto their meal, so that he was very thirsty ; he was also in asort of agony, and took this treatment of him heinously, as Iretherefore saw one of Caius's slaves, whose name Was Tkuumat-tus, carrying some water in a vessel, he desired that he wouldlet him drink ; so the servant gave him some water to drink,and he drank heartily, and said, " O thou boy ! this service of"thine to me will be for thy advantage; for, if I once get*' clear of these my bonds, I will soon procure thee thy fre'6-" dom of Caius, who has not been wanting to minister to me" now I am in bonds, in the same manner as when I was in" my former state and dignity." Nor did he deceite him inwhat he promised him, but macje him amends for what he hadnow done ; for, when afterward Agrippa was come to the king*dom, he took particular care of Thaumastus, and got him his li­berty from Caius, and made him the steward over his ownestate ; and when he died, he left him to Agrippa his son, and toBernice his daughter, to minister to them in the same capacity. The