OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL «u«, to deduce the most important circumstances of its decline andfall; a revolution which will ever be remembered, and is still feltby the nations of the earth.Moderation The principal conquests of the Romans were atchieved under the of Augustas. * * * , republic; and the emperors, for the most part, were satisfied withpreserving those dominions which had been acquired by the policyof the senate, the active emulation of the consuls, and the martialenthusiasm of die people. The seven first centuries were filled witha rapid succeflion of triumphs; but it was reserved for Augustus,to relinquish the ambitious design of subduing the whole earth, andto introduce a spirit of moderation into the public councils. In­clined to peace by his temper and situation, it was easy for him todiscover, that Rome, in her present exalted situation, had muchless to hope than to fear from the chance of arms j and that, in theprosecution of remote wars, the undertaking became every daymore difficult, the event more doubtful, and the possession moreprecarious, and less beneficial. The experience of Augustus addedweight to these salutary reflections. Instead of exposing his personand his legions to the arrows of the Parthians, he satisfied himselfwith the restitution of tbe standards and prisoners which were takenin the defeat of Crassus *. . His generals, in the early part of his reign, attempted the re­duction of Æthiopia and Arabia Felix. They marched near athousand miles to the south of the tropic; but the heat of the climateloon repelled the invaders, and protected the unwarlike natives 'ofthose sequestered regions*. The northern countries of Europescarcely deserved the expence and labour of the conquest. The forestsand morasses of Germany were filled with a hardy race of barbari­ans, who despised life when it was separated from freedom; andthough, on the first attack, they seemed to yield to the weightof the Roman power, they soon, ty a signal act of despair, re-»gained their independence, and reminded Augustus of the vicis- 4 , situde