OCR Output RAURANCM. REATE. 695 IT), tad in ume inscriptions. Ptolemy mentionsi>> tons of the Rauraci, Rauricorum Augusta and*--?**ao*»ria [Al'gi sta Raukaoorum ; Abgen-uni} Auja-: i is Anytt near Bale, in therwaa Canton of Jbile, and Argentoraria may beIryiinn. Toe poxitiou of these places helps us» asra) a measure of the extent of the territory ofit Uiaraci, which may have nearly coincided with3r kuonpric of Bile. Tm Kinraci joined the Helvetii in their emigra­te. B.C. 58. [Hai-vrru.] [G. L.] iUURANCM, in Gallia, is placed by the Table» -Ja Antonine [tin. on a direct road from Me-S« varn (Sait.lt s) t.. LimontunIt is Raurana in the Table, but the name-vaaaro ocean in a letter of Paulinus to AusoniusFa, IV. ad Anson, r. 249), who places it "Pic-aass ■ arris.1* The pl.icc is Rom or Raum, near■**ry, nearly doe south of Poiliers. (D'Anville,anar, 4V..- Ukert. Galliot, p. 392.) [G. L.] iU CHAR'S. [AttAUKis.] KATE (Te^Tf, Strab.; fains, Dionys.: Eth. anwet, Rratirau: Ritti), an ancient city of theac.-s. an J one of the most considerable that be-•v*i to thst people. It was situated on the Vian. id :ml» from Rome (Bin. Ant. p. 306), and. tat banks of the river Velinus. All writersjm ia s»pre»enung it as a very ancient city: ac-naa; to one account, quoted by Dionysius from■aacaa of Troezen, it was one of the original•aw af list Umbrians, from which tbey were ex.>J ty the Pelaagi ; but Cato represented it ast c Vw first places occupied by the Sabines when - cmzadrd from the neighbourhood of Amiter-B, tkeir anginal abode. (Dionys. ii. 49.) Wbat- - ajtanty Cato may have had for this statement,r» ■— no reason to doubt that it was substan-:» trae. The fertile valley in which Keate wasaM isy in the natural route of migration for aair itnttodag from the highlands of the centralsua: and there is no doubt that both ReateI u usxhbuorhood were in historical times occu-t «r tie Sibine*. It was this migration of theai that led to the expulsion of the Aborigines,> a-r<.*dicg to Dionysius, previously occupiedt trn' of Italy, and whose ancient metropolis,La was only 24 stadia from Reate. (Dionys. i. 41.) Sliaa Italicus appears to derive itsa iram Rhea, and calls it consecrated to theba- of lbs Gods; bat this is probably a mereaai tancr. (StL ItaL viii. 41 j.) Ko mentionlast aneura in history before the period whena-'-nra bad been subjected to the IComan rule,to the Roman Franchise (b. c. 290);at aaoae is more than onoe incidentally noticedif lav 3a»taiil Punic War. In n. c. 211 Han-i ta*d under its walls during his retreat fromt. w. arcurding to Coelius, during his advancoidavt atf (Lir. uti 11); and in u. c. 205 thea. an apraally mentioned as coming forward,■ara math the other Sabines, to furnish volun-a> uat atfnvxment of Scipio. (Id. xxviii. 45.)■a wholly ignorant of the reasons why it wasas ts the aohordinate condition of a Pracfec- aaier arnica title it is repeatedly mentioned bya sal are learn from the great orator himself,r c^aat especial patronage the inhabitants werea, Uat a was a flourishing and important town. as Cat, in. 2, pro Scaur. 2. § 27, de Mat. a. 1.) Under the Empire it certainly ob-i \z, QtrLamrj municipal privileges, and had its own magistrates (Zumpt, de Col. pp. 98, 188;Gruter, Inter, p. 354. 3, &c): under Vespasian itreceived a considerable number of veteran soldiersas colonists, but did not obtain the rank or title of aColonia. {Lib. Col. p. 257; Orell. Inter. 3685;Gruter, Inter, p. 538. 2 ; &c.) The territory of Reate included the whole of thelower valley of the Velinus, as far us the fall- ofthat river; one of the most fertile, as well as beau­tiful, districts of Italy, whence it is called by Cicerothe Reatine Tempe (ad All. iv. 15.) But the pe­culiar natural character of this district was themeans of involving the citizens in frequent disputeswith their neighbours of Interanina. ( Varr. R. R.iii.2. § 3.) The valley of the Velinus below Reate,wherethe river emerges from the narrow mountain valleythrough which it has hitherto flowed, and receivesat the same time the waters of the Salto and Tu-rano, both of them considerable streams, expandsinto a broad plain, not less than 5 or 6 miles inbreadth, and almost perfectly level; so that thewaters of the Velinus itself, and those of the smallerstreams that flow into it, have a tendency to stag­nate and form marshes, while in other places theygive rise to a series of small lakes, remarkable fortheir picturesque beauty. The largest of these, nowknown as the Logo di Pie di Lugo, seems to havebeen the one designated in ancient times as theLacls Velinus ; while the fertile plains which ex­tended from Reate to its banks were known as theRosf.i or more projierly Roseae CAMri, termed byVirgil the "Rosea rura Velini." (Virg.ylftt.vii.712; Cic. ad Alt. iv. 15; Varro, R. R. i. 7. § 10,ii. I. § 16, iii. 2. § 10; Plin. xvii. 4. s. 3.) Butthis broad and level valley is at an elevation of near1000 feet above that of the Nar, into which it poursits waters by an abrupt descent, a few miles aboveInteramna (Terni); and the stream of the Velinusmust always have constituted in this part a naturalcascade. Those waters, however, are so stronglyimpregnated with carbonate of lime, that they arecontinually forming an extensive deposit of traver­tine, and thus tending to block up their own chan­nel. The consequence was, that unless their coursewas artificially regulated, and their channel keptclear, the valley of the Velinus was inundated, whileon the other hand, if these waters were carried otTtoo rapidly into the Nar, the valley of tliat river andthe territory of Interamna suffered the same fate.The first attempt to regulate the course of the Veli.nus artificially, of which we have any account, wasmade by M'. Curius Deutatus, after his conquest ofthe Sabines, when he carried off its waters by a deepcut through the brow of the hill overlooking theNar, and thus gave rise to the celebrated cascadenow known as the Falls of Terni. (Cic. ad Alt.iv. 15; Serv. ad Aen. vii. 712.) From the ex­pressions of Cicero it would appear that the LocusVelinus, previous to this time, occupied a muchlarger extent, and that a considerable part of thevalley was then first reclaimed for cultivation. But the expedient thus resorted to did not fullyaccomplish its object. In the time of Cicero (n. c.54) fresh disputes arose between the citizens ofReate and those of Interamna ; and the former ap­pealed to the great orator himself as their patron,who pleaded their cause before the arbiters appointedby the Roman senate. On this occasion he visitedReate in person, and inspected the lakes and thechannels of the Velinus. (Cic. pro Scaur, 2. § 27,oxl All. iv. 15.) The result of the arbitration is T Y 4