OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 11 sister, and requested, that on a day, the most illustriousfestival of his life, they would adorn him with the richgarments which they had worked with their own hands."Ourglory (saidhe) is mutual and inseparable. Youare known to the world as the mother of Theodoric;and it becomes me to prove that I am the genuineoffspring of those heroes from whom I claim my de­scent." The wife or concubine of Theodemir was in­spired with the spirit of the German matrons, who es­teemed their sons' honour far above their safety; and itis reported, that in a desperate action, when Theodorichimself was hurried along by the torrent of a flyingcrowd, she boldly met them at the entrance of the camp,and, by her generous reproaches, drove them back onthe swords of the enemy." From the Alps to the extremity of Calabria, Theodo- h;« c«P;tu-ric reigned by the right of conquest: the Vandal am- death,bassadors surrendered the island of Sicily, as a lawful ap- Ma°'h4593,pendage of his kingdom; and he was accepted as thedeliverer of Rome by the senate and people, who hadshut their gates against the flying usurper/ Ravennaalone, secure in the fortifications of art and nature, stillsustained a siege of almost three years; and the daringsallies of Odoacer carried slaughter and dismay into theGothic camp. At length, destitute of provisions, andhopeless of relief, that unfortunate monarch yielded tothe groans of his subjects and the clamours of his sol­diers. A treaty of peace was negotiated by the bishopof Ravenna; the Ostrogoths were admitted into the city,and the hostile kings consented, under the sanction ofan oath, to rule with equal and undivided authority theprovinces of Italy. The event of such an agreementmay be easily foreseen. After some days had been de­voted to the semblance of joy and friendship, Odoacer, "This anecdote is related on the modem but respectable authority of Sigonins;(op. tom. 1. p. 580. De Occident. Imp. lib. 15.) his words are curious.—" Wouldyou return?" &o. She presented, and almost displayed, the original recess. * Hist. Miscell. lib. 15. a Roman history from Jannsto tho ninth century, an Epi­tome of Butropius, Paulas Diaconus, andTheophanes, which Muratori has publishedfrom a MS. in the Ambiosian library. (Script. Rerum 1 talk-arum, tom. 1. p. 100.) ■ c 2