OCR Output 1072 SYRIA. SYRIA. north of Apameia, where its impetuosity is curbed andiis waters dissipated in the morasses, so that it flowsoff in a diminished stream to Jisr Shot/fter, to beagain replenished in its course through the plain of'Umk by other affluents, until it reaches its nor­thernmost point at Jisr Had id (the Iron Bridge), alittle Mow which it winds round to the west, andshout 5 miles above Antioeh receives from Bahr-el-A Had (the White Sea) the Nahr-eLKowshit, anavigable river, containing a greater volume ofwater than EUAzy itself. It now flows to the northof Antioeh and the infamous groves of Daphne,through an exceedingly picturesque valley, in asouth-west course to the sea, which it enters a littleto the south of Seleucia, alter a circuitous course ofabout 200 miles, between 34° anil 36° 15' of northlatitude, 36° and 37° of east longitude. 3. Ardttibanus and the eastern range. — Themountain chain which confines Coelesyria on tlieeast is properly designated Antilibanus, but it isfurl her extended towards the north and south byoffsets, which confine tlie valley of the Orontcs andthe Jordan valley respectively. Antilibanus it-self,now called Jebel-esh-Shurkeh (Eastern Mountain'),which is vastly inferior to Li ban us both in majestyand fertility, has been already described, as has alsoits southern prolongation in Mount Hertnon, nowJebel-esh-Sheikh} sometimes Jtbel-et-Tebje (theSnow Mountain). [AsTlLlBANUS-] The northernchain, on the east of the Orontes valley, has not beensufficiently surveyed to admit of an accurate de­scription, but there is nothing striking in the heightor general aspect of the range, which throws outbranches into the great desert, of which it forms thewestern boundary. 4. The eastern desert. — Although for the pur­poses of a geographical description the whole countrycast of the mountain chains above described may beregarded as one region, and the insufficient materialsfor a minute and accurate survey make it convenientso to regard it, yet it is tar from being an uniformflat, presenting throughout the same features of de­solation. On the contrary, so far as it has yet beenexplored, particularly to the south of the parallel ofDamascus, the country is diversified by successionsof hills and valleys, which often present large fertiletracts of arable land, cultivated in many parts by ahardy and industrious race of inhabitants. By farthe richest of these is the plain of Damascus (El-trhutaJi), at the foot of the eastern declivity of Anti­libanus, the most excellent of the four earthly para­dises of the Arabian geographers. (Dr. Eli Smith, inBib. Hex. vol. iii. Append. B. p 147.) It owes itsbeauty, not less than its fertility, to the abundanceof water conveyed to it in the united streams of theBaruda and the Bht-geh, which, issuing togetherfrom the eastern roots of Antilibanus. and distributedinto numerous rivulets, permeate the city and itsthousands of gardens, and finally lose themselves inthe Sea of the Plain, Bahr-tl-Merj, which the ex­ploration of a recent traveller has found to consist oftwo lakes instead of one, as has been hitherto re­presented in all modern maps. (Porter, Five Warsin f)amasctts1 1855, vol. i. pp.377—382,and map.)Indeed, so much fresh light has been thrown on thesouth-west of Syria by Mr. Porter's careful surveys,that the geography of the whole country will haveto be greatly modified in all future maps, as we arenow, for the first time, in a position to define withsome degree of accuracy the limits of several dis­tricts mentioned both by sacred and classical writers, whose relative position even has hitherto \xa >matter of doubtful conjecture. The sUermc& ,Burckhardr. who has hitherto been tie so* lauwrsj,require considerable correction. The Barada, the ancient Ahana. fmm its r&t aAntilibanus, near the plain of Zrbdfmy to its tr^.-nation in the South and East Lakcf, is mjirs. >traverse a distance of 42 miles, and to lilfl x rr*.',equal to 311 square miles, inhabited by ipcpuL^of 150,000 souls, or an average <i 482 i*«7square mile, including Damascus and its rasr*"The prevailing rock of the mountains thrgtci ratit flows is limestone. In the higher rec*<a> - ahard and compact, but near Damascus tdi achalky, with large nodules of flint ratennixei F»-sil shells and corals in great variety are faoai vs(the centra] chain of Antilibanus, through wtjciTariver tirst cuts. In the white hills Dear DuafcfBare large quantities of ammonites. At S*i R*JBarada (near its source) is a vast bed «' or^u:remains, not less than a mile in (earth, aru: is *z*places exceeding 100 feet in thickness. True *trees, branches of every size and form, aE'l cm 'J»delicate tracery of the leaves may be seesabout in vast masses. There are iu seveni ?U»among the mountains traces of vukanir suaOn a lofty summit, two hours' north-east a; »what appears to be an extinct crater. TLi* ^tain ha.- been rent, the limestone struts thnwi t*L.and black porous trap-rock fills up tne esviiy. ^*plain of Damascus has a loamy soil ia:encn*.r—fine sand. The substratum is generally cocgtsrwnimade up of rounded smooth pebbles, flint, it:The south-eastern portion of the (.lain is ew?volcanic" (Porter, Journal of Sacrvd Lifr^**vol. iv. p. 262.) The plain of Damascus is * -towards the south by a low r&nzt of krils e^'-Jebel-ehAttDad (the Black Mountain), thebxse of which is washed by a stream, atea *lately been supposed by some travelers t* bbm*the ancient Pharpar. It is now called .Vast*Awaj, which, rising in the roots of Hermaa,naiSicourse about north-east to a small liir asBahret-el-ffeijany, only about 4 miles sou's <i aBahret-d- Kibiiyah, into which the Ban.&i ^It runs partly through a limestone »a± V-'through a volcanic formation, which c\^'.i.v< i --nfar to the south. (Porter, in Journal of Sac La.v. pp. 45—57, Travels, vol. i. pp. 297—323.)the south side of the river, opposite to J<<*~*Aswatlj is another low mountain ran re calxdMania, and a higher elevation concectcd si-l -range commands a view of those ancient ArneSouthern Syria, which have hitherto bees oc jjecturally placed in modern maps. Their teear-^*3have notwithstanding been indelibly traced c* Jhand of nature, and the limits so dearlythat they actually exist, mostly under th rancient names, as au evidence of the oesi.*7classical and sacred geographers. But tbe* 1 ■;more conveniently considered, in oxuwcii* rTrachonitis, round which they are grvapedchonitis], particularly as this part ttf tit os--may be regarded as debatable ground betwwo >'~Arabia, and Palestine. Turning now to the north of Datnascns isi:east of the mountain range, the tssiatry b*«this city and Aleppo offers nothing wvtfij oftieular notice; indeed its geography is s-uJ iin the map of Syria, except its western s*ifcis traversed by Uie Haj read, the rnosx nortaerr