OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. who patiently endured the loss of the1 port, and of allmaritime supplies. The siege of Rome would perhapshave been raised, if the liberality of Totila to the Isau-rians had not encouraged some of their venal country­men to copy the example of treason. In a dark night,while the Gothic trumpet sounded on another side, theysilently opened the gate of St. Paul: the Barbariansrushed into the city; and the flying garrison was inter­cepted before they could reach the harbour of Centum-cellae. A soldier trained in the school of Belisarius,Paul of Cilicia, retired with four hundred men to themole of Hadrian. They repelled the Goths; but theyfelt the approach of famine; and their aversion to thetaste of horse-flesh confirmed their resolution to risk theevent of a desperate and decisive sally. But their spiritinsensibly stooped to the offers of capitulation: they re­trieved their arrears of pay, and preserved their armsand horses, by enlisting in the service of Totila; theirchiefs, who pleaded a laudable attachment to their wivesand children in the east, were dismissed with honour;and above four hundred enemies, who had taken refugein the sanctuaries, were saved by the clemency of thevictor. He no longer entertained a wish of destroyingthe edifices of Rome,z which he now respected as theseat of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and people wererestored to their country ; the means of subsistence wereliberally provided; and Totila, in the robe of peace, ex­hibited the equestrian games of the circus. Whilst heamused the eyes of the multitude, four hundred vesselswere prepared for the embarkation of his troops. Thecities of Rhegium and Tarentum were reduced: he passedinto Sicily, the object of his implacable resentment, andthe island was stripped of its gold and silver, of the fruits 1 The Romans were still attached to the mouumenU of their ancestors; and, ac­cording to Procopius, (Goth. lib. 4. c. 22.) the galley or /Eneas, of a single rank ofoars, twenty-five feet in breadth, one hundred and twenty in length, was preservedentire in the navaiia, near Monte Testaceo, at the foot of the Aventine. (Nardini, Ro­ma Antica, lib. 7. c. 9. p. 466. Donatus, Roma Antiqua, lib. 4. c. 13. p. 334.) Butall antiquity is ignorant of this relic.