OCR Output 342 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. there, to assist those who were employed in the new fortifica­tion ; and yet, though earnestly pressed by the iEginetae,they refused to accompany them within their walls, beingaverse to run the risk of a new blockade. They chose ratherto retreat towards the eminences, as they judged themselvesdisabled by the inferiority of their number from facing theenemy, and remained there in a state of inaction. By this time the Athenians, having compleated their land­ing and advanced with their whole force, take Thyrea by-storm. They set the city in flames and destroyed whateverwas within it. Such of the iEginetae as survived the instantcarnage, they carried prisoners to Athens ; and with themTantalus son of Patrocles, who commanded there as generalfor the Lacedaemonians. He had been wounded, and sotaken prisoner. They also carried thither some few personswhom they had taken in Cythera, such as for its security itwas expedient to remove. These the Athenians after a con­sultation decreed " to be disposed of in the islands, but" the rest of the Cythereans still to occupy their own lands" subjected to the yearly tribute of four talents*; but the" iEginetae, as many as had been taken prisoners, to be all in-" stantly put to death," (to gratify that eternal rancour theybore them) " and Tantalus to be kept in prison along with his" countrymen taken in Sphacteria." The same summer, a suspension of arms was agreed onin Sicily; first, between the Camarineans and Geloans:and then, the other Sicilians, holding a general congress atGela, whither the ambassadors from the several States re­sorted, entered into conferences about the terms of a gene­ral reconciliation. Many different expedients were proposedon all sides and many disputes arose, each insisting on a re­paration suitable to their own private sense of grievance.But Hermocratesf the son of Hermon a Syracusan, who • Seven hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling. t This great and accomplished Syracusan seems to be ushered intothis history with peculiar dignity, as the very month of Sicily, exhorting;