OCR Output 34^ THE DECLINE AND FALL His victoriesand extraor­dinary death. A.D. 283.December 25, Persians expressed their desire of being introduced to the presence of theRoman emperor. They were at last conducted to a soldier, who wasseated on the grass. A piece of stale bacon and a few old pease com­posed his supper. A coarse woollen garment of purple was the onlycircumstance that announced his dignity. The conference was con­ducted with the fame disregard of courtly elegance. Carus, taking offa cap which he wore to conceal his baldness, assured the ambassadors,that, unless their master acknowledged the superiority of Rome, hewould speedily render Persia as naked of trees, as his own head wasdestitute of hair 11. Notwithstanding some traces of art and prepa­ration, we may discover in this scene the manners of Carus, and thesevere simplicity which the martial princes, who succeeded Gallienus,had already restored in the Roman camps. The ministers of the greatking trembled and retired. The threats of Carus were not without effect. He ravagedMesopotamia, cut in pieces whatever opposed his passage, madehimself master of the great cities of Seleucia and Ctesiphon (whichseem to have surrendered without resistance), and carried his vic­torious arms beyond the Tigris 74. He had seized the favourablemoment for an invasion. The Persian councils were distracted bydomestic factions, and the greater part of their forces were detained onthe frontiers of India. Rome and the East received with transportthe news of such important advantages. Flattery and hope painted,in the most lively colours, the fall of Persia, the conquest of Arabiathe submission of Egypt, and a lasting deliverance from the inroadsof the Scythian nations 7S. But the reign of Carus was destined toexpose the vanity of predictions. They were scarcely utteredbefore they were contradicted by his death; an event attended withsuch ambiguous circumstances, that it may best be related in aletter from his own secretary to the praefect of the city. "Carus,"fays he, "our dearest emperor, was confined by sickness to his bed,"when a furious tempest arose in the camp. The darkness which overspread «< ♦