OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 245 conspired against their nephew, before, and after, the death of his father. Theirfirst attempt was pardoned: for the second offence they were condemned to theecclesiastical state; and for the third treason, Nicephorus, the eldest and mostguilty, was deprived of his eyes, and his four brothers, Christopher, Nicetas,Anthemeus, and Eudoxas, were punished, as a milder sentence, by the amputationof their tongues. After five years' confinement, they escaped to the church of St,Sophia, and displayed a pathetic spectacle to the people. "Countrymen andChristians," cried Nicephorus for himself and his mute brethren, "behold thesons of your emperor, if you can still recognize our features in this miserable state.A life, an imperfect life, is all that the malice of our enemies has spared. It isnow threatened, and we now throw ourselves on your compassion." The risingmurmur might have produced a revolution, had it not been checked by the pre­sence of a minister, who soothed the unhappy princes with flattery and hope, andgently drew them from the sanctuary to the palace. They were speedily em­barked for Greece, and Athens was allotted for the place of their exile. In thiscalm retreat, and in their helpless condition, Nicephorus and his brothers weretormented by the thirst of power, and tempted by a Sclavonian chief, who offered tobreak their prison, and to lead them in arms, and in the purple, to the gates ofConstantinople. But the Athenian people, ever zealous in the cause of Irene,prevented her justice or cruelty; and the five sons of Copronymus were plungedin eternal darkness and oblivion. For himself, that emperor had chosen a barbarian wife, the daughter of thekhan of the Chozars: but in the marriage of his heir, he preferred an Athenianvirgin, an orphan, seventeen years old, whose sole fortune must have consisted inher personal accomplishments. The nuptials of Leo and Irene were celebratedwith royal pomp; she soon acquired the love and confidence of a feeble husband,and in his testament he declared the empress guardian of the Roman world, andof their son Constantine VI. who was no more than ten years of age. During hischildhood Irene most ably and assiduously discharged in her public administrationthe duties of a faithful mother; and her zeal in the restoration of images has de­served the name and honours of a saint, which she still occupies in the Greek ca­lendar. But the emperor attained the maturity of youth; the maternal yoke be­came more grievous; and he listened to the favourites of his own age, who sharedhis pleasures, and were ambitious of sharing his power. Their reasons convincedhim of his right, their praises of his ability, to reign; and he consented to rewardthe services of Irene by a perpetual banishment to the isle of Sicily. But hervigilance and penetration easily disconcerted their rash projects: a similar, ormore severe punishment was retaliated on themselves and their advisers; andIrene inflicted on the ungrateful prince the chastisement of a boy. After thiscontest the mother and the son were at the head of two domestic factions; and,instead of mild influence and voluntary obedience, she held in chains a captive andan enemy. The empress was overthrown by the abuse of victory; the oath offidelity which she exacted to herself alone, was pronounced with reluctant mur­murs; and the bold refusal of the Armenian guards encouraged a free and generaldeclaration, that Constantine VI. was the lawful emperor of the Romans. In thischaracter he ascended his hereditary throne, and dismissed Irene to a life of soli­tude and repose. But her haughty spirit condescended to the arts of dissimulation :she flattered the bishops and eunuchs, revived the filial tenderness of the prince,regained his confidence, and betrayed his credulity. The character of Constan­tine was not less destitute of sense or spirit; but his education had been studiouslyneglected; and his ambitious mother exposed to the public censure the vices whichshe had nourished, and the actions which she had secretly advised; his divorceand second marriage offended the prejudices of the clergy, and by his imprudentrigour he forfeited the attachment of the Armenian guards. A powerful conspi­racy was formed for the restoration of Irene; and the secret, though widely dif­fused, was faithfully kept above eight months, till the emperor, suspicious of hisclanger, escaped from Constantinople, with the design of appealing to the pro­vinces and armies. By this hasty flight, the empress was left on the brink of theprecipice; yet before she implored the mercy of her son, Irene addressed a privateepistle to the friends whom she had placed about his person, with a menace, thatunless they accomplished, she would reveal their treason. Their fear renderedthem intrepid; they seized the emperor on the Asiatic shore, and he was transport­ed to the Pophyry apartment of the palace where he had first seen the light. Inthe mind of Irene, ambition had stifled every sentiment of humanity and nature;