OCR Output PK0V1NCIA. 673 PROVINCIA. /»«. laf the reontrj south of Lyon. The part ofO freradi sooth of Lyon is a valley between theJUa .1 the fast and the Ceramet on the west,•ixb btonn wider u we advance south. On the« oietbt lower Alps and the Alpine valleys covertare put of the country. On the west, the Ce-savj md Uif lower ranges connected with themkin »nrr narrow tract between the Rhone and the% :uj» till we come to the latitude of Avignon and5ma The southern part of the Rhone valleyh"r. Mauilia and the Pyrenees contains a largeW of tm! country. The southern part of thisrntnUrr 0 m,,re Italian than Gallic in position,fact, aai products. The Rhone, which cnts it£j t» puts, has numerous branches which join it« tin Alp*; but the mountain streams whichb» ill it from the Cerennet are few [RiiodanlsJ.7» riren of the Provincia west of the Rhone»:m lot Civeimrt and from the Pyrenees intoit Heilemoean. They are all comparatively small.. t'joiu of Avienus is probably the Caulazon,■ attcu conclude from the name ; the LedusdV Uz, which flows by Montpellier; the Araurisami) Sows past Agatbe (Agde); the Libria or • be the Lirron [LibriaJ; the Obris orW{'We); the Xarbo or Atax (Aude), which»» .Virtue*; the Ruscino or Tetis {Tel), and'Tmxu (TecA). which enters the MediterraneanwnW north of Portus Veneris {Port Vtndre).ta» thf Far and the Rhone there are very fewMl far the form of the surface is such thatit al the drainage runs into the Rhone. There"A-juceus (Argent), and a few insignificant»a :cwem the Argenteus and the delta of the* ^ ntrent western part of the Provincia com-» portion of the basin of the Carxmiw,^ vtf is on this river. The valley of theIkowu the Cerennet and the Pyrenees forms»»»jf«arb from the Mediterranean to the watersand to the Atlantic,— a circumstanceIb/iiiUted the commerce between the Medi-w*» sad the Atlantic, and made this a com-■I w< at a very early period. [NAiino.]hi out from the Pyrenacum Pnimontoriuin to • i'r« miles south of Massilia forms a great th> GaUicn* Sinus: it is generally flat, and•» pins it is lined by marshes and lakes. rl "f the coast contains the Delta of theEast of Hauilia the country is hilly andT» Mt vi Matsilia is natumlly a poor place.ft ■ the port of Telo Martins ('/'imhn), andf*hw ports of little value. Mela's remark• trif: - On the shure of the Provincia there> p*'«" "ill some name?; but there are fewi there are few ports and all the coast11» the Auster and the Africus." There—uids along the eastern coast, thePtsoasia, Leron, and other rocky islets,of the Provincia, according to Agrip-**&nmt, are said to be 2*0 M. P. in • •"i J48 M. P. in breadth. But we neitherP tbt measures were taken, nor whether the** » Piiffv'i text (iii. 4) are correct How-fc an that this, like many other parts of the**» xuvryed and measured under Agrippa's p*th if the coast of Narbonensis is abovej^a The direct distance from Tonlotite to•i sf Lbs Tor is near 300 miles; and fromof the Rhone and the Soone, the direct distance to the sea measured along a meridian isabout 180 miles. But these measures give only animperfect idea of the area of the country, becausethe outline is irregular. Strabo (iv. pp. 178,179) haspreserved a measurement which has followed aRoman road from the Pyrenees to the Var. Thedistance from the temple of Aphrodite at the Py­renees to Narbo is 63 Roman miles; thence toNemausus 88; from Nemausus through Ugemumand Tarasco to the warm springs called Sexliae(Aquae Sextiae), which are near Massilia, 53;and thence to Antipolis and to the Varus, 73;the whole making 277 miles. Some reckon, hesays, from the Aphrodisium to the Varus 2600stadia, and some add 200 more, for they do notagree about the distance. Two thousand sixhundred stadia are 325 Roman miles. When Strabowrote, the distance along the road from Narbo tothe Var was not measured, or he did not know it.The other great road which he describes is a roadthrough the Vocontii and the territory of Cottius:"As far as Ugernum and Tarasco the road from Ne­mausus is the same as the route just described; butfrom Tarasco to the borders of the Vocontii over theOrucntia and through Caballio (Cavaillon on theDurance") is 63 miles; and again, from Caballio tothe other limit of the Vocontii toward the land ofCottius to the village Epebrodunum (Embrodunum,Entbrun) is 99 miles; then 99 more through thevillage Grigantiutn (Briancon) and Scinconiagusand the passage of the Alpes (the pass of MontGenivre') to "Ocelum [Ocklum], the limit of theland of Cottius; the country from Scincomagus isreckoned a part of Italy, and from there to Ocelumis 27 miles." He says in another place (iv. p. 187)that this road through the Vocontii is the shorter,but though the other road along the Massiliotic coastand the Ligurian territory is longer, the passes overthe hills into Italy are easier, for the mountains inthose parts sink lower. These were the two great roads in the Provincia.There was a road in the west from Narbo throughCarcaso to Tolusa. There was also a road fromArelate (J rltt) at the bifurcation of the Rhonenorthward on the east side of the Rhone, throughAvenio, Arausio, Valentia, and Vienna ( V'ienne), toLugdunum; this was one of Agrippa's roads(Strab. iv.p. 208). There was no road on the opposite side ofthe river, or no great road, the land on that side notbeing well adapted for the construction of a road.There were other roads over the Alps. There was ari>ad from Lugdunum and Vienna up the valley of theIsara (hire) to the Alpis Graia (Little St. Bernard),which in the time of Augustus was much used(Strab. iv. p. 208); and there was the road fromAugusta Praetoria (Aosta) in Italy over the GreatSt Bernard to Octodurus (Martigny) and Penni-lucus, at the east end of the Lake of Geneva; andthence into the country of the Helvetii. Within the limits of Narbonensis there is everyvariety of surface and climate, Alpine mountainsand Alpine valleys, sterile rocky tracts and fertileplains, winter for nine months in the year and sum­mer for as many months. Pliny says of it: "Agro-rum cultu, virorum morumque dignatione, amplitu-dine opum, nulli provinciarum postferenda breviter-que Italia verius quam provincia.'' (Pliny, iii. 4.)The climate is only mild in the south part and inthe lowlands. As we descend the Rhone a differ­ence is felt. About Arausio (Orange) the oliveappears, a tree that marks a warm climate. "All —