OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 395 ordinary domanial and other revenues, had not been leviedsince the battle of Pydna, so that absolute freedom fromland-tax began to be regarded as a constitutional privilegeof Roman landed property. The royalties of the state,such as the salt monopoly (ii. 329) and the right of coinage,•were not now at least, if ever at all, treated as sources ofincome. The new tax on inheritance (ii. 383) was allowedto fall into abeyance or was perhaps directly abolished.Accordingly the Roman exchequer drew from Italy in­cluding Cisalpine Gaul nothing but the produce of thedomains, particularly of the Campanian territory and of thegold mines in the land of the Celts, and the revenue frommanumissions and from goods imported by sea into theRoman civic territory not for the personal consumption ofthe importer. Both of these may be regarded essentially astaxes on luxury, and they certainly must have been con­siderably augmented by the extension of Roman citizenshipand at the same time of Roman customs-dues to all Italy,probably including Cisalpine Gaul. In the provinces the Roman state claimed directly, as its Provincialprivate property, the whole domain of the cities destroyed revenues.by martial law and—in those states where the Romangovernment came in room of the former rulers—the landedproperty possessed by the latter. By virtue of this rightthe territories of Leontini, Carthage, and Corinth, the do­manial property of the kings of Macedon, Pergamus, andCyrene, the mines of Spain and Macedonia were regardedas Roman domains; and, in like manner with the territoryof Capua, were lensed by the Roman censors to private con­tractors for a certain proportion of the produce or a fixed sumof money. We have already explained that Gaius Gracchuswent still further, claimed the whole land of the provincesas domain, and in the case of the province of Asia practicallycarried out this principle; inasmuch as he legally justifiedthe decumce, scriptura, and vectigalia levied there on the groundof the state's right of property in the land, pasture, andcoasts of the province, whether these had previously be­longed to the king or to private persons (P. 115, 122). There do not appear to have been at this period anyroyalties from which the state derived profit, as respectedthe provinces; the prohibition of the culture of the vineand olive in Transalpine Gaul did not benefit the state-chestas such. On the other hand direct and indirect taxes were