OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. sure of the most abject and dangerous superstition. The Magi, orsacerdotal order, were extremely numerous, since, as we have alreadyseen, fourscore thou&nd of them attended a general council. Theirforces were multiplied by discipline. A regular hierarchy wasdiffused through all the provinces of Persia; and the Archimagus,who resided at Balch, was respected as the visible head of thechurch, and the lawful successor of Zoroaster '7. The property ofthe Magi was very considerable. Besides the lese invidious posses­sion of a large tract of the most fertile lands of Media ,s, they levieda general tax on the fortunes and the industry of the Persians"Though your good works," fays the interested prophet, "exceed"in number the leaves of the trees, the drops of rain, the stars in** the heaven, or the sands on the sea shore, they will all be un-** profitable to you, unless they are accepted by the deftour, or priest."To obtain the acceptation of this guide to salvation, you must"faithfully pay him tythes of all you possess, of your goods, of** your lands, and of your money. If the destour be satisfied, your.'* foul will escape hell tortures; you will secure praise in this world,,41 and happiness in the next. For the destours are the teachers of« religion ; they know all things, and they deliver all men *°." These convenient maxims of reverence and implicit faith weredoubtless imprinted with care on the tender minds of youth; sincethe Magi were the masters of education in Persia, and to their hands-the children even of the royal family were intrusted The Persian'priests, who were of a speculative genius, preserved and investigated ithe secrets of Oriental philosophy; and acquired, either by supe­rior knowledge or superior art, the Teputation of being well versed iin feme occult sciences, which have derived their appellation fromthe Magi**. Those of more active dispositions, mingled with theworld in courts and cities; and it is observed, that the administra­tion of Artaxerxes was in a great measure directed by the counsels of.