OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 345 the coast of that state; and, intending from thence todouble the promontory, and bring round the fleet tothe very walls of the city, they were near being buriedin the waves by a furious storm. However, after beingdispersed, and a great part of the ships having losttheir rigging, they escaped on shore. This storm atsea was an omen of the kind of success which theywere to meet on land; for, after collecting their ves­sels together, and landing their forces, having madean assault on the city, they were repulsed with con­siderable loss, there being a strong garrison of theking's troops in the place. Being thus obliged to re­treat without accomplishing their design, they passedover to Canastrum in Pallene, and from thence, dou­bling the promontory of Torona, conducted the fleet toAcanthus. There they first laid waste the country,then stormed the city itself, and plundered it. Theyproceeded no farther, for their ships were now heavilyladen with booty, but went back to Sciathus, andfrom Sciathus to Euboea, whence they had first setout. 46. Leaving the fleet there, they entered the Malianbay with ten light ships, in order to confer with thejEtolians on the method of conducting the war. Si-pyrrhicas, the jEtolian, was at the head of the embassythat came to Heraclea, to hold a consultation with theking and the Roman lieutenant-general. They de­manded of Attalus that, in pursuance of the treaty, heshould supply them with one thousand soldiers, whichnumber he had engaged for on condition of their takingpart in the war against Philip. This was refused tothe yEtolians, because on their part they had formerlyshowed themselves unwilling to march out to ravageMacedonia, at a time when Philip, being employednear Pergamus in destroying by fire every thing sacredand profane, they might have compelled him to retirefrom thence, in order to preserve his own territories.Thus, instead of aid, the jfitolians were dismissed withhopes, the Romans making them large promises. Apus-tius and Attalus returned to their ships, where they