OCR Output Chap.V. 13 THE ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. scious of all this, and had resolved to conceal it; for which rea­son Herod divorced her, and blotted her son out of his teftament,wherein he had been mentionecVas one that was to reign afterhim ; and he took the high-priesthood away from his father-in-law, Simeon the son of Boethus, and appointed Matthias the sonof Theophilus, who was born at Jerusalem, to be high-priestin his room. 3. While this was doing, Bathyllus, also Antipater's freed-man,came from Rome, and, upon the torture, was found to havebrought another potion, to give it into the hands of Antipater'smother, and of Pheroras, that if the former potion did not ope­rate upon the king, this at least might carry him off. There camealso letters from Herod's friends at Rome, by the 'approbationand at the suggestion of Antipater, to accuse Archelaus and Phi­lip, as if they calumniated their father on account of the slaugh­ter of Alexander and Aristobulus, and as if they commiseratedtheir deaths, and as if, because they were sent for home, (fortheir father had already recalled them), they concluded they werethemselves also to be destroyed. These letters had been procu­red by great rewards, by Antipater's friends ; but Antipaterhimself wrote to his father about them, and laid the heaviestthings to their charge ; yet did he entirely excuse them of anyguilt, and said, they were but young men, and so imputed theirwords to their youth. But he said, that he had himself beenvery busy in the affair relating to Sylleus, and in getting interestamong the great men ; and on that account had bought splendidornaments to present them withal, which cost him two hundredtalents. Now, one may wonder how it came about, that while'so many accusations were laid against him in Judea during sevenmonths before this time, he was not made acquainted with anyof them. The causes of which were, that the roads were ex­actly guarded, and that men hated Antipater; for there wereno body who would run any hazard himself, to gain him anyadvantages. CHAP. V. Antipater's navigation from Rome to his father ; and how he wasaccused by Nicolaus of Damascus, and condemned to die by hisfather, and by ®hiintilius Varus, who was then president of Sy­ria ; and how he was then bound till Ceesar should be informedof his cause. $ i» 'VTOW Herod, upon Antipater's writing to him, that ha--*• * ving done all that he was to de, and this in the man­ner he was to do it, he would suddenly come to him, concealed his