OCR Output 590 ANTIQUITIES or THE JEWS. Bodk XVI. "the vilest things, and would certainly suffer the greatest pun-"ishments that were ever known among mankind." 2. These were the accusations which Herod laid with greatvehemency against his sons before Caesar. Now, the youngmen, both while he was speaking, and chiefly at his concluding,wept, and were in confusion. For, as to themselves, they knewin their own consciences they were innocent, but because theywere accused by their father, they were sensible, as the truth was,that it was hard for them to make their apology, since, thoughthey were at liberty to speak their minds freely as the occasionrequired, and might with force and earnestness refute the accusa足tion, yet was it not now decent so to do. There was thereforea difficulty how they should be able to speak, and tears, and atlength a deep groan followed, while they were afraid, that ifthey said nothing, they should seem to be in this difficulty froma consciousness of guilt, nor had they any defence ready, by rea足son of their youth, and the disorder they were under; yet wasnot Caesar unapprised, when he looked upon them in the con足fusion they were in, that their delay to make their defence didnot arise from any consciousness of great enormities, but fromtheir unskilfulness and modesty. They were also commiseratedby those that were there in particular, and they moved their fa足ther's affections in earnest, till he had much ado to conceal them. 3. But when they saw there was a kind disposition arisen bothin him and in Caesar, and that every one of the rest did eithershed tears, or at least did all grieve with them, the one of them,whose name was Alexander, called to his father, and attempted toanswer his accusation and said, " O father, the benevolence thou"hast showed to us is evident, even in this very judicial proce-"dure,for hadst thou had any pernicious intentions about us thou"hadst not produced us here before the common saviour of all,"for it was in thy power, both as a king, and as a father, to"punish the guilty, but by thus bringing us to Rome, and mak-"ing Caesar himself a witness to what is done, thou intimatest"-that thou intendest to save us, for no one that hath a design to"slay a man will bring him to the temples, and to the altars:"yet are our circumstances still worse, for we cannot endure to"live ourselves any longer, if it be believed that we have injur-"ed such a father; nay, perhaps it would be worse for us to"live with this suspicion upon us, that we have injured him,"than to die without such guilt: and if our open defence may"be taken to be true, we shall be happy, both in pacifying thee,"and in escaping the danger we are in, but if this calumny so"prevails, it is more than enough for us that we have seen the"sun this day ; which why should we see, if this suspicion be"fixed upon us? Now it is easy to say of young men, that they