OCR Output 156 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIJ. coming to him, to excuse the multitude, as not having done himany harm, for that he was their patron. In short, he was so verylarge in his encomiums upon the young man, that he disposedboth the king and his wife Cleopatra to have a kindness for himbefore he came, So Joseph sent to his friends at Samaria, andborrowed money of them; and got ready what was necessary forhis journey, garments and cups, and beasts for burthen, whichamounted to about twenty thousand drachmae, and went to Alex­andria. Now it happened that at this time all the principalmen and rulers went up out of the cities of Syria and Phenicia,to bid for their taxes; for every year the king sold them to themen of the greatest power in every city. So these men saw Jo­seph journeying on the way, and laughed at him for his povertyand meanness. But when he came to Alexandria^ and heardthat king Ptolemy was at Memphis, he went up thither to meetwith him; which happened as the king was sitting in his cha­riot, with his wife and with his friend Athenion, who was thevery person who had been ambassador at Jerusalem, and been en­tertained by Joseph. As soon therefore as Athenion saw him,he presently made him known to the king, how good and gene­rous a young man he was. So Ptolemy saluted him first, anddesired him to come up into his chariot; and as Joseph sat there,he began to complain of the management of Onias. To whichhe answered, Forgive him, on account of his age for thou canstnot certainly be unacquainted with this, that old men and in­fants have their minds exactly alike; but thou shalt have fromus, who are young men, every thing thou desirest, and shalt haveno cause to complain. With this good humour and pleasantryof the young man, the king was so delighted, that he began al­ready, as though he had long experience of him, to have a stillgreater affection for him, insomuch, that he bade him take hisdiet in the king's palace, and be a guest at his own table everyday. But when the king was come to Alexandria, the principalmen of Syria saw him sitting with the king, and were much of­fended at it. 4. And when the day came on which the king was to let thetaxes of the cities to farm, and those that were the principalmen of dignity in their several countries were to bid for them,the sum of the taxes together, of Celesyria and Phenicia, andJudea, with Samaria [as they were bidden for,] came to eightthousand talents. Hereupon Joseph accused the bidders, as hav­ing agreed together to estimate the value of the taxes at too lowa rate; and he promised, that he would himself give twice asmuch for them: but for those who did not pay, he would sendthe king home their whole substance; for this privilege wassold together with the taxes themselves. The king was pleased