OCR Output 312 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. JCLlllw less susceptible than the male; but every rank and pro­fession was attacked with indiscriminate rage, and manyof those who escaped were deprived of the use of their, speech, without being secure from a return of the disor­der/ The physicians of Constantinople were zealousand skilful: but their art was baffled by the varioussymptoms and pertinacious vehemence of the disease:the same remedies were productive of contrary effects,and the event capriciously disappointed their prognosticsof death or recovery. The order of funerals, and theright of sepulchres, were confounded; those who wereleft without friends or servants, lay unburied in theStreets, or in their desolate houses; and a magistratewas authorized to collect the promiscuous heaps of deadbodies, to transport them by land or water, and to interthem in deep pits beyond the precincts of the city. Theirown danger, and the prospects of public distress, awaken­ed some remorse in the minds of the most vicious of man­kind; the confidence of health again revived their pas­sions and habits; but philosophy must disdain the ob­servation of Procopius, that the lives of such men wereguarded by the peculiar favour of fortune or providence.He forgot, or perhaps he secretly recollected, that theplague had touched the person of Justinian himself; butthe abstemious diet of the emperor may suggest, as inthe case of Socrates, a more rational and honourablecause for his recovery.2 During his sickness, the publicconsternation was expressed in the habits of the citizens;and their idleness and despondence occasioned a generalscarcity in the capital of the east.Extent and Contagion is the inseparable symptom of the plague; duration. * ( A. T). ft. 2 y Thacydides (c. 51.) affirms that the infection conld only be onoe taken j but594. Evagrius, who had family-experience of the plague, observes, that some persons, whohad escaped the first, sank under the second attack; and this repetition is confirmedby Fabius Paallintts. (p. 588.) I observe that on this head physicians are divided:and the nature and operation of the disease may not always be similar. z It was thus that Socrates had been saved by his temperance, in the plague ofAthens. (Anl. Gellias, Noct. Attic. 2. 1.) Dr. Mead accounts for the peculiar sa­lubrity of religious houses, by the two advantages of seclusion and abstinence, (p.18, 19.)