OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 405 and took counsel what they should do, and determined that,as the night was coming on, they should kindle fires andlamps, and keep watch : that they also should fast the nextnight, and propitiate the gods, in order to obtain deliverancefrom them : that on the next day there was one Moses, whoadvised them that they should venture upon a journey, andgo along one road, till they should come to places fit forhabitation: that he charged them to have no kind regardsfor any man, nor give good counsel to any, but always toadvise them for the worst, and to overturn all those templesand altars of the gods they should meet with: that the restcommended what he had said with one consent, and did whatthey had resolved on, and so travelled over the desert: Butthat the difficulties of the journey being over, they came toa country inhabited; and that there they abused the men,and plundered and burnt their temples; and then came intothat land which is called Judea, and there they built a city,and dwelt therein; and that their city was named Hierosyla,from this their robbing of the temples ; but that still, uponthe success they had afterwards, they, in time changed itsdenomination, that it might not be a reproach to them, andcalled the city Hierosoli/ma, and themselves Hierosolymites."35. Now this man did not discover and mention the sameking with the others, but feigned a newer name, and, passingby the dream -and the Egyptian prophet, he brings him to[Jupiter] Hammon, in order to gain oracles about scabbyand leprous people; for he says, that the multitude of Jewswere gathered together at the temples. Now it is uncertainwhether he ascribes this name to these lepers, or to thosethat were subject to such diseases among the Jews only; forhe describes them as a people of the Jews. What peopledoes he mean ? foreigners, or those of that country ? Why,then, dost thou call them Jews, if they were Egyptians?But if they were foreigners, why dost thou not tell us whencethey came ? And how could it be, that after the king haddrowned many of them in the sea, and ejected the rest intodesert places, there should be still so great a multitude re­maining ? Or after what manner did they pass over the