OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 265 casus it enlightened by the rays of the fun a third part of thenight after fun-set, and a third part before the rising of the fun.And if any one considers the whole magnitude of the earth,bounded by its elevated parts, he will conclude that it is trulyof a prodigious magnitude, according to the assertion of Plato."I only add, that what Proclus observes here from Ptolemy aboutthe height of the Lunar mountains is contradicted by Mr. Bruce,who fays in his book, on the Source of the Nile, that thesemountains are by no means ef that prodigious altitude whichthey were supposed to be by the ancients. However, for myown part, I prefer Ptolemy's authority to that of Mr. Bruce,notwithstanding the person of Mr. Bruce during his travelswas, as he informs us, by no means despicable; and in additionto this, his circumstances, were affluent, and his connectionspowerful! Page 101. / can also mention others, that tvere once men, an Jwere after their death •worshipped at gods by the Greels."] I havealready abundantly (hewn in a former note, that there is an orderof fouls among men, who from their superior purity, and magna,nimity, and their proximity to beings essentially more excellent,were very properly denominated by the ancients, heroes. Theseelevated souls, too, were justly called by the fame names as thedivinities from which they descended: for the characteristic ofevery divine nature extends itself to the last of things, so as evento leave a vestige of its ineffable prerogatives in the dark and re­bounding receptacle of matter. Heroes however, though theywere worshipped by the ancients, yet they were neither consi­dered as gods, nor worshipped as such, by those who paid themno other honours than what were ordained by the Grecian laws,as is evident from Plato's Laws. Pausanias therefore, in the pas.sage before us, feemc, for want of a philosophical acquaintancewith the religion of his country, to confound the divine and hu­man nature: and it is to passages of this nature that we must;ascribe the general prevalence at present of that most licentiou* and