OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2$ pellation, is a province of the Venetian state, and the feat of thelittle republic of Ragusa. The inland parts have assumed the Scia-vonian names of Bosnia and Croatia; the latter obeys an Austriangovernor, the former a Turkisti pasha; but the whole country isstill infested by tribes of barbarians, whose savage independencedescribes the doubtful limit of the Christian and Mahometanpower '*. After the Danube had received the waters of the Teyss and the ^æfiaand;Save, it acquired, at least, among the Greeks, the name of Ister '\It formerly divided Mæsia and Dacia, the latter of which, as wehave already seen, was a conquest of Trajan, and the only pro­vince beyond the river. If we inquire into the present state of thosecountries, we shall find that, on the left hand of the Danube,Temeswar and Transylvania are annexed, after many revolutions,to the crown of Hungary; whilst the principalities of Moldavia andWalachia acknowledge the supremacy of the Ottoman Porte. Onthe right hand of the Danube, Mæsia, which, during the middleages, was broken into the barbarian kingdoms of Servia and Bul­garia, is again united in Turkish flavery. The appellation of Roumelia, which is still bestowed by the Thrace, Ma-Turks on the extensive countries of Thrace, Macedonia, and Greece* «doniaand 'Greece. preserves the memory of their ancient state under the Romanempire. In the time of the Antonines, the martial Thrace,from the mountains of Haemus and Rhodope, to the Bosphorus andthe Hellespont, had assumed the form of a province. Notwith­standing the change of masters and of religion, the new city of.Rome, which Gonstantine founded on the banks of the Bosphorus,has ever since remained the capital of a great monarchy. TheKingdom of Macedonia, that, under the reign of Alexander, had.given laws to Asia, derived more solid advantages from the policyof the two Philips; and with its dependencies of Epirus aod;Theffaly, extended from the Ægean to the Ionian sea. Whem 1 war