OCR Output POMPEII. POMPEII,653 ■rj i inferior rooms, a kind of garrets, probablyamor, foe the sleepiug-rooius of slaves, anil in someMi of the females of the family. From theStir of detraction of the city the upper storiesMindeed been slm<st uniformly totally destroyed;H this circumstance itself, as well as the few■ta which occasionally remain, seems to proveft they sere built wholly of wood, and conld neverM formed an important part of the houses.Ik oalv oo the W. side of the city, where theslopes steeply towards the sea, that houseshich consisted of three stories or more,the houses had little or nothing of ancharacter; not a single instance hasof a portico before a private house; andthe street they presented either dead walls,kerr and there a few small and scanty openingsor ranges of shops, for the most partmean in character, even when they occupiedoftca the case) the front of dwellings of adescription. The interior of the houses ofkaarr wealthy class was arranged apparently onNBI model as those at Rome; its disposition is■ is detail in the Dictionary of Antiquitiesm the article DoMt s where a plan is givenjbj Home of Panaa, one of the most exten-esnptets of those found at Pompeii. Inthe single house with its garden andincluding as usual several shops,whole of an insula or the sjiare boundedt> or alleys; but this was unusual; inx b insula comprised several houses evenf were of a better description, and mustthe residence of persons of some wealth.■ want remarkable of these may be men-dwellings known as the House of Sallust,e Tragic Poet, of Castor and Pollux, ofAc. The work of Dr. Overbeck(rives a very interesting series ofselected so ss to afford examples ofof house, from the humblest dwell-of only two rooms, to the richly de-spacious mansions of Sallust and Pansa.of decoration of these houses presents auniformity of character. The wallsinvariably ornamented with painting, the atrium and peristyle being decorated withbut these are composed only of a soft and coarsestone (volcanic tufo) covered with stucco. Theprodigal use of marble, both for columns and slabsto encrust the walls, which had become so generalat Rome under tho first emperors, apparently nothaving yet found its way to Pompeii. The floorsare generally enriched with mosaics, some of whichpossess a very high degree of merit as works of art.The most beautiful yet discovered adorned the houseknown as the House of the Faun, from a bronzestatue of a dancing Faun which was also found init The illustrations to Gell's Pompeiana (2ndseries, Lond. 1835) will convey to the reader a suf­ficient idea of the number and variety of the artisticdecorations of the private houses at Pompeii; thoughseveral of the most richly ornamented have beendiscovered since the date of its publication. Outside the gate leading to Herculaneum, in akind of suburb, stands a house of a different de­scription, being a suburban villa of considerableextent, and adapted to have been the abode of aperson of considerable wealth. From the greaterspace at command this villa comprises much that isnot found in the houses within the town; amongothers a large court or garden (Xystus), a completesuite of private baths, &c. The remains of thisvilla are of mnch value and interest for comparisonwith the numerous ruins which occur elsewhere ofsimilar buildings, often on a much more extensivescale, but in a far less perfect state of preservation;as well as for assisting us to understand the de­scriptions given by Pliny and Vitruvius of similarstructures, with their numerous appurtenances. (Forthe details of their arrangements the reader is re-ferred to the article Villa, in the Dictionary ofAntiquities, and to the work on Pompeii, Lond. 1832,vol. ii. ch. 11.) Between this villa and the gate ofthe city are the remains of another villa, said to boon a larger scale and more richly decorated thanthe one just described; but its ruins, which wereexcavated in 1764, were rilled up again, and arenot now visible. It has been called, though withoutthe slightest authority, the Villa of Cicero. Theone still extant is commonly known as the Villa ofArrius Dioinedes, but for no other reason than that ""I STREET OK TIIK TUMUs.