OCR Output 4UO ROMAN EMPIRE. almost the same. The acclamations of the people sa­luted his landing on the coast of Andalusia; and, aftera successful struggle, Abdalrahman established thethrone of Cordova, and was the father of the Ommiadesof Spain, who reigned above two hundred and fifty yearsfrom the Atlantic to the Pyrennees.q He slew in battlea lieutenant of the Abbassides, who had invaded his do­minions with a fleet and army: the head of Ala, in saltand camphire, was suspended by a daring messengerbefore the palace of Mecca; and the caliph Almansorrejoiced in his safety, that he was removed by seas andlands from such a formidable adversary. Their mutualdesigns or declarations of offensive war evaporated with­out effect; but instead of opening a door to the conquestof Europe, Spain was dissevered from the trunk of themonarchy, engaged in perpetual hostility with the east,and inclined to peace and friendship with the Christiansovereigns of Constantinople and France. The exampleof the Ommiades was imitated by the real or fictitiousTriple di- progeny of Ali, the Edrissites of Mauritania, andthTca-°f the more powerful Fatimites of Africa and Egypt.Hphate. In the tenth century, the chair of Mahomet wasdisputed by three caliphs or commanders of the faithful,who reigned at Bagdad, Cairoan, and Cordova, excom­municated each other, and agreed only in a principle ofdiscord, that a sectary is more odious and criminal thanan unbeliever.1 Magni- Mecca was the patrimony of the line of Ha-of "the" shem, yet the Abbassides were never tempted torairphs, resi(ie either in the birth-place or the city of the750—790. prophet. Damascus was disgraced by the choice,and polluted with the blood, of the Ommiades; and after i For the revolution of Spain, consult Roderic of Toledo, (c. 18. p. 34, &c.) theBibliotheca Arabico-Hispana, (torn.2. p. 30.198.) and Cardonne. (Hist, do 1'Afriqueet de riispagne.torn. 1. p. 180—197. 205. 272. 323, &c.) 'I shall not stop to refute the strange errors and fancies of sir William Temple(his works, vol. 3. p. 371—374. octavo edition) and Voltaire (Histoire General*,c. 28. torn. 2. p. 124, 125. edition de Lausanne), concerning the division of the Sa­racen empire. The mistakes of Voltaire proceeded from the want of knowledgeor reduction ; but sir William was deceived by a Spanish impostor, who has framedan apocryph al history of the conquest of Spain by the Arabs.