OCR Output 32S TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK IV. • a very respectable light,) concluded, that they ought toexert themselves, that the remains of the infamous sen­tence, formerly passed in relalion to the Ardeatfts, mightbe buried in oblivion ; and for that purpose, prevailedon the senate to pass a decree, for sending a colony toArdea, to defend them against the Volsci, and repeop'.ethe city, much depopulated by the civil war. This waspublicly given out and recorded, that the people andtheir tribunes, might not discover the latent design of re­versing their sentence. For, it was concerted, that a fargreater part of the colony should consist of Rutuli thanof Romans; that no territory should be divided but thatwhich had produced the infamous sentence ; and that noRoman should have-a single acre of land, till all the Ru­tuli should be provided for. Thus was the territority restored to the Ardeates.Three gentlemen were chosen to lead the colony toArdea, Agrippa Menenius. T. Clcelius Siculus, and Ebu-cius Elua, who by an unpopular discharge of their trust,in assigning the lands to the allies, which the Romanshad adjudged to themselves, fell into disgrace with thepeople, nor were they high in favour with the Pa­tricians, because they had shown no respect to persons.However, they avoided a prosecution, when the tribunesappointed them a day to answer for their conduct beforethe peop'e, by deserting the diet, an/1 incorporating them­selves with the colony, who had been witnesses of theintegrity and impartiality of their conduct. » Be CHAP. XII.A Famine. A Superintendent of Provisions chosen. )OTH this year and the following, when Cains Furius Pacilius and M. Papirius Crnssus were consuls, passed intranquillity bath at home and abroad. The games,which the decemvirs had vowed, and the senate enacted,daring the secession of the people from the fathers, werecelebrated this year. In vain did Petilius attempt toraise a sedition; wlio being made tribune of the peoplea second time, couid not, for all the blustering he miulvabout the Agrarian law, get the consuls to i»ov.c it once