OCR Output AK.457.] 403 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. VI. concerning esther, mordecai, and hahan; and theImminent danger to which the whole nation ofthe jews was exposed in the reign of artaxerxes. AFTER the death of Xerxes,* the king­dom came to be transferred to his sonCyrus, whom the Greeks call Artaxerxes.fWhen this man had obtained the governmentover the Persians, the whole nation of theJews,J with their wives and children, werein danger of perishing: the occasion whereofwe shall declare in a little time. For it isproper in the first place to explain somewhatrelating to this king, and how he came tomarry a Jewish wife; who was also of theroyal family, and who is related to have savedour nation. For when Artaxerxes had takenthe kingdom, and had set governors over thehundred and twenty-seven provinces, fromIndia even unto Ethiopia, in the third year of his reign,|| he made a costly feast for hisfriends,§ and for the nations of Persia, andfor their governors: such a one as was properfor a king to make, when he had a mind tomake a public demonstration of his riches;and this for a hundred and eighty days. Af­ter which he made a feast for other nations,and for their ambassadors, at Shushan, forseven days. Now this feast was ordered afterthe following manner. He caused a tent tobe pitched, which was supported by pillars ofgold and silver, with curtains of linen andpurple spread over them; that it might affordroom for many thousands to sit down. Thecups which the waiters ministered were ofgold, and adorned with precious stones. Healso gave order to the servants, that theyshould not force the guests to drink, by bring­ing them wine continually, as is the practiceof the Persians; but to permit every one tofollow his own inclination. Moreover he sent * About an. 457. t This prince, to distinguish him from others of thatname, was called Maxpox"'p,orLongimanus, upon the sup­posed length of his hands, with which it is said that hecould have touched his knees, even when he stood up­right; but this notwithstanding, it is reported of him, thathe was both the handsomest person of the age in which helived, and a prince likewise of a very mild and generousdisposition. Prideaux's Connection, anno 465. B. | Since some sceptical persons are willing to discardthis book of Esther, as no true history: and even ourlearned and judicious Dr. Wall, in his late posthumouscritical notes upon all the other Hebrew books of the OldTestament, gives us none upon the Canticles, or uponEsther; and seems thereby to give up this book, as wellas the Canticles, as indefensible: I shall venture to say,that almost all the objections against this book of Estherare obviated at once, if, as we ought certainly to do, andas Dean Prideaux has justly done, we place this historyunder Artaxerxes Longimanus: as do both the Septuagintinterpreters, and Josephus. I mean in this case we alsotake our true copies from the Septuagint, and from Jose­phus; rather than from our Masorete Hebrew. I shallhere add farther, on its behalf, the words of the learnedDr. Lee in his posthumous Dissertation on the second bookof Esdras, page 25, that "The truth of this history isdemonstrated by the feast of Purim, kept from that timeto this very day. See 2 Maccabees xv. 36. And thissurprising Providential revolution in favour of a captivepeople, thereby constantly commemorated, standeth evenupon a firmer basis than that there ever was such a manas Alexander the Great in the world: of whose reignthere is no such abiding monument at this day to befound any where. Nor will they, I dare say, who quar­rel at this, or any other of the sacred historians, find it avery easy matter to reconcile the different accounts whichare given by historians of the affairs qf this king: or toconfirm any one fact of his whatever with the same evi­dence which is here given for the principal fact in thisvoL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34. sacTed book: or even so much as to prove the existenceof such a person, of whom so great things are related, butupon granting this book of Esther, or sixth of Esdras:(as it is placed in some of the most ancient copies of theVulgate:) to be a most true and certain history." N. B. The oldest and most authentic record we nowhave of Alexander the Great, is contained in the firstseven verses of the first book of Maccabees. I I An. 454. § The occasion of this great festival is, very likely, In­timated to us in the phrase, When the king Ahasuerus saton the throne of his kingdom, chap. i. 2. i. e. enjoyingpeace and tranquillity through his large dominions; forthe history of his accession to the throne is this:—Xerxeshis father was privately murdered by Artabanus, captainof his guard. He coming to him, (who was then but thethird son,) made him believe, that Darius, his elder bro­ther, had done it, to make his way to the throne, and hada design likewise to cut him off, to secure himself in it.This Ahasuerus believing, went immediately to his bro­ther's apartment, and by the assistance of the wicked Ar­tabanus and his guards, slew him, thinking all the whilethat he acted but in his own defence. Artabanus's driftwas to seize on the throne himself; but for the present hetook Ahasuerus, and placed him thereon, with a design topull him down as soon as matters were ripe for his ownascent: but when Ahasuerus understood this from Maga-byzus, who had married one of his sisters, he took care tocounterplot Artabanus, and to cut him and his whole partyoff before his treason was come to maturity; and for this,and some other successes against his brother Hystaspes,which settled him in a peaceable possession of the wholePersian empire, very probably it was, that a festival-seasonof above a hundred and fourscore days' continuance wasappointed, which, even to this day, according to some tra­vellers, is no uncommon thing in those parts of the world.Prideaux's Connection, anno 465, and Patrick's Commen­tary on Esther, chap. i. B. 3X