OCR Output 406 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he had indignation at him, and said withinhimself, "Whereas the Persians, who arefree men, worship me; this man, who is nobetter than a slave, does not vouchsafe to doeo." And when he desired to punish Morde-cai, he thought it too small a thing to requestof the king, that he alone might be punished.He rather determined to extirpate the wholenation. For he was naturally an enemy tothe Jews: because the nation of the Amale-kites, of which he was, had been destroyedby them.* Accordingly he came to the king,and accused them, saying, "There is a cer­tain wicked nation, and it is dispersed overall the habitable earth that is under thy do­minion: a nation separate from others, unso­ciable; neither admitting the same sort ofdivine worship that others do, not using lawslike the laws of others; at enmity with thypeople, and with all men, both in their man­ners and practices. Now if thou wilt be abenefactor to thy subjects, thou wilt giveorder to destroy them utterly, and not leavethe least remains of them, nor preserve anyof them either for slaves or for captives."But that the king might not be injured bythe loss of the tributes which the Jews paidhim, Haman promised to give him out of hisown estate forty thousand talents, wheneverhe pleased. And he said, he would pay thismoney very willingly, that the kingdom mightbe freed from such a misfortune. When Haman had made this petition,the king both forgave him the money, andgranted him the men; to do what he wouldwith them. So Haman, having gained whathe desired, sentf out immediately a decree,as from the king, to all nations, the contentswhereof were these: "Artaxerxes, the great king, to the rulers of the hundred and twenty-seven provinces, from India to Ethiopia, sendsthis writing. Whereas I have governed manynations, and obtained the dominion of all thehabitable earth, according to my desire; andhave not been obliged to do any thing that isinsolent or cruel to my subjects, by such mypower; but have shewn myself mild and gen­tle, by taking care of their peace and goodorder, and have sought how they might enjoythose blessings for all time to come. Andwhereas Haman, who, on account of his pru­dence, and justice, is the first in my esteem,and in dignity, and only second to myself,for his fidelity and constant good will to me;hath kindly informed me, that there is an illnatured nation intermixed with all mankind,that is averse from our laws, and not subjectto kings; and of a different conduct of lifefrom others; and of a disposition perniciousto our affairs: I give order that all these men,of whom Haman, our second father, hath in­formed us, be destroyed, with their wives andchildren; and that none of them be spared,and that none prefer pity to them, before obe­dience to this decree. And this I will to beexecuted on the fourteenth day of the twelfthmonth of this present year: so that when allthat have enmity to us are destroyed, and thisin one day, we may be allowed to lead therest of our lives in peace hereafter." Nowwhen this decree was brought to the cities,and to the country, all were ready for the de­struction and entire extirpation of the Jews,against the appointed day. And they werevery hasty about it at Shushan in particular.Accordingly the king and Haman spent theirtime in feasting together, with good cheerand wine: but the city was in Jdisorder.|| no sort of adoration to an Amalekite, which nation hadbeen such great sinners, as to have been universally de­voted to destruction by God himself, Exod. xvii. 14, 15,16. 1 Sam. xv. 18. or whether both causes occurred,cannot now be entirely determined. * See Exod. xvii. 8-—16. and 1 Sara. xv. t The first institution of posts is generally ascribed tothe Persians; for the kings of Persia, (as Diodorus Sicu-lus, lib. 19. observes,) that they might have intelligenceof what passed in all the provinces of their vast dominions,placed sentinels on eminences, at convenient distances,where towers were built, and these sentinels gave noticeof public occurrences to one another, with a very loud andshrill voice, by which means news was transmitted fromone extremity of the kingdom to the other with great ex­pedition But as this could be practised only in the case of general news, which might be communicated to thewhole nation, Cyrus, (as Xenophon relates, Cyropaed.lib. 8.) set up couriers, places for post-horses on all high­roads, and offices, where they might deliver their packetsto one another. This, says our author, they did nightand day; so that no rain or hard weather being to stopthem, in the judgment of many, they went faster thancranes could fly. The like is said in Herodotus, lib. 8.And he acquaints us farther, that Xerxes, in his famousexpedition against Greece, planted posts from the jEgeansea to Shushan, at certain distances, as far as a horsecould ride with speed, that thereby he might send noticeto the capital city of whatever might happen in his army.Calmefs Dictionary under the word. B. % Esther iii. 15. 11 Not only the Jews, but a great many others in Shu­