OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 169 and there were slain in the assault about four hundredand thirty. Going thenoe to Rome to preside at theelections, he used all expedition in despatching thatbusiness. All the first-called centuries voted QuintusFabius consul. Appius Claudius was a candidate, aman of consular rank, daring and ambitious; and ashe wished not more ardently for the attainment of thathonor for himself, than he did that the patricians mightrecover the possession of both places in the consulship,he labored, with all his own power, supported by thatof the whole body of the nobility, to prevail on themto appoint him consul along with Quintus Fabius. Tothis Fabius objected, giving at first the same reasonswhich be had advanced the year before. The noblesthen all gathered round his seat, and besought him toraise up the consulship out of the plebeian mire, andto restore both to the office itself, and to the patricianrank, their original dignity. Fabius then procuringsilence, allayed their warmth by a qualifying speech,declaring that ' he would have so managed as to havereceived the names of two patricians, if he had seen anintention of appointing any other than himself to theconsulship. As things now stood, he would not set sobad a precedent as to admit his own name among thecandidates; such a proceeding being contrary to thelaws.' [A. U. C. 456. B. C. 296.] Whereon AppiusClaudius and Lucius Volumnius, a plebeian, who hadlikewise been colleagues in that office before, wereelected consuls. The nobility reproached Fabius fordeclining to act in conjunction with Appius Claudius,because he evidently excelled him in eloquence andpolitical abilities. 16. When the election was finished, the former con­suls were continued in command for six months, andordered to prosecute the war in Samnium. Accord­ingly, during this next year, in the consulate of LuciusVolumnius and Appius Claudius, Publius Decius, whohad been left consul in Samnium by his colleague,continued in the character of proconsul to spread de­vastation in like manner as in the preceding year,