OCR Output DECLINE AND f ALL [CHAP. XLIV. the enemies of Justinian; that the jurisprudence of an­cient Rome was reduced to ashes by the author of thePandects, from the vain persuasion, that it was noweither false or superfluous. Without usurping an officeso invidious, the emperor might safely commit to igno­rance and time the accomplishment of this destructivewish. Before the invention of printing and paper, thelabour and the materials of writing could be purchasedonly by the rich; and it may reasonably be computed,that the price of books was a hundred fold their presentvalue." Copies were slowly multiplied and cautiouslyrenewed: the hopes of profit tempted the sacrilegiousscribes to erase the characters of antiquity, and Sopho­cles or Tacitus were obliged to resign the parchment tomissals, homilies and the golden legend.p If such wasthe fate of the most beautiful compositions of genius,what stability could be expected for the dull and barrenworks of an obsolete science? The books of jurispru­dence were interesting to few, and entertaining to none;their value was connected with present use, and theysunk for ever as soon as that use was superseded by theinnovations of fashion, superior merit, or public autho­rity. In the age of peace and learning, between Ciceroand the last of the Antonines, many losses had been al­ready sustained, and some luminaries of the school, orForum, were known only to the curious by tradition andreport. Three hundred and sixty years of disorder anddecay accelerated the progress of oblivion; and it mayfairly be presumed, that of the writings, which Justinianis accused of neglecting, many were no longer to befound in the libraries of the east.q The copies of Papi- ° When Fust, or Paustus, suld at Paris his first printed hibles as manuscripts, theprice of a parchment copy was reduced from four or five hundred to sixty, fifty, andforty crowns. The public was at first pleased with the cheapness, and at length pro-Yoked by the discovery of the fraud. (Mattaire, Annal. Typograph. tom. 1. p. 12.first edition.) P This execrable practice prevailed from the eighth, and more especially from thetwelth, century, when it became almost universal. (Montfaucon, in the Memoires del'Academie, tom. 6. p. 606, &c. Bibliotheque Raisonnee de la Diplomatique, tom. 1.p. 176.) 1 Pomponins (Pandect, lib. 1. tit, 2. leg. 5.) observes, that of the three founders