OCR Output OF TACITUS. 7 " from his youth to the pomp and pride of consulships" and triumphs. During the years which he passed" in a seeming retreat, but real exile, in the isle of" Rhodes, he meditated nothing so much as plans of" future vengeance, clandestine pleasures, and the arts" of dissimulation." To these reflections the publicadded their dread of a mother, raging with all the im­potence of female ambition: a whole people, they said,were to be enslaved by a woman, and two young men,who in the beginning would hang heavy on the state,and in the end distract and rend it to pieces by theirown dissensions. V. While these and other observations of a similarnature employed the public mind, the health o'f Au­gustus declined apace. The wickedness of his wifewas not supposed to remain inactive. A rumour pre­vailed, that Augustus had gone a few months before,in a private manner, with a select party, and Fabius,Maximus, his confidential friend, to the island of Pla-'nasia, on a visit to Agrippa. The meeting was saidto be of the tenderest nature: tears were shed by both,and a scene of mutual affection followed. From thatinterview hopes were conceived, that the young princewould be once more restored to the favour and pro­tection of his grandfather. The secret soon transpired:Fabius communicated the whole to his wife Marcia,and by her it was conveyed fo Livia. Augustus knewthat he had been betrayed. Maximus died soon after,perhaps, by his own hand: but of that nothing can besaid with certainty. At his funeral Marcia was heard,in the vehemence of distress and sorrow, to accuseherself of being accessary to the death of her husband.However that may be, Tiberius had scarcely set footin Illyricum when he received despatches from hismother, requiring his immediate presence. He ar­rived at Nola: but whether Augustus was still living,or breathed his last, must be left in doubt. By Livia'sorder the palace and all the avenues were closelyguarded : favourable accounts were issued from timeto time; and with that artifice mankind was amusedtill all proper measures were concerted. At length