OCR Output 6. THE PELOPONNE5IAN WAR. security from the insults of neighbouring people. But thoseof an earlier date, having been more subject to piratical de­predations, are situated at a great distance from the sea,not only on islands but also upon the main. For even thosewho lived upon the coast, though inexpert at sea, were usedto make excursions up into the country for the sake ofplunder: And such inland settlements are discernible to thisvery day. But the people of the islands, that is the Carians and thePhoenicians, were by much the most expert at these piraticaladventures: For by them the greatest part of the isles wasinhabited. This is proved from the expiation solemnized atDelos in the course of this war ; on which occasion all thesepulchres of the dead in that island being broke open, morethan half of the number appeared to be Carians, known to besuch from the weapons found in their graves, and a particu­larity of interment* still used amongst them. It was not tillafter the equipment of fleets by Minos, that a communicationwas opened at sea. For by him the mischievous bandittiwas ejected from the islands, and many colonies of his ownplanted there in their stead. And from this period it wasthat the maritime people, grown more intent on the acquisi­tion of wealth, became also more fond of settled habitations ;And such of them as then surpassed in wealth strengthenedtheir settlements by walling them about. And this their pas­sion for gain continuing to increase, the poorer hired out theirservices to those who had affluence ; and the great, who hadall needful supplies at hand, reduced less powerful cities intotheir own subjection. And their power by these methodsgradually advancing, they were enabled in process of time toundertake the Trojan expedition. • The Carians first invented the boss of shields and the crest of helmets.In remembrance of this, a small shield and a crest were always buriedwith them. By this means were the Carians known. The Ph4enicianswere distinguished by the manner of their interment. For, whereas<Uier nations laid the faces of their dead towards the east, the Phreniciansvf CersMl theposture, and laid thrm to the west. Scholiast.