OCR Output aN. 1800.] 39 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. look upon yourself and God to be the sup­porters of my travels, and think myself safe inmy present circumstances." Laban now promised to treat him withgreat humanity, both on account of his an­cestors, and particularly for the sake of hismother; towards whom he said he would shewhis kindness, even though she were absent,by taking care of him. For he assured himhe would make him the head shepherd of hisflock, and gave him authority sufficient forthat purpose; and when he should be inclinedto return to his parents, he would send himback with presents, and this in as honourablea manner as their consanguinity should re­quire. Jacob heard these promises gladly;and said he would willingly undergo any sortof pains while he tarried with him; but de­sired as the reward of those pains that hemight be permitted to marry Rachel, whowas not only on other accounts esteemed byhim; but also because she was the means ofhis coming to him; for he said he was forcedby the love of the damsel to make this pro­posal. Laban was pleased with this agree­ment, and consented to give the damsel tohim, if he would stay with him some time;for he was not willing to send his daughterto be among the Canaanites; for he repentedof the alliance he had made already by mar­rying his sister there. And when Jacob hadgiven his consent to this, he agreed to serveis father-in-law seven years, that by givinga specimen of his virtue, it might be betterknown what sort of a man he was. Whenthe stated time was expired, Laban made thewedding feast, but when it was night, withoutJacob's perceiving it, he put his other daugh­ter into bed to him; who was both elder thanRachel, and of no comely countenance. Jacobslept with her that night; but when it wasday he knew what had been done to him, andcomplained of this unfair proceeding. Labanasked pardon for that necessity which forcedhim to do what he did; for he said he did notgive him Lea out of any ill design, but asovercome by another greater necessity; that,notwithstanding this, nothing should hinderhim from marrying Rachel; but that when hehad served another seven years he would * Gen. xxix. 28. t Here we have the difference between slaves for life,and servants, such as we nOw hire for a time agreed upon voL. I.—No. 4. give him her whom he loved. Jacob sub­mitted to this condition; for his loye to thedamsel did not permit him to do otherwise;and when seven years more were expired, hetook Rachel to wife.* Now each of these had handmaids, by theirfather's donation. Zilpha was handmaid toLea, and Bilba to Rachel; by no meansslaves,f but subject to their mistresses. NowLea was sorely troubled at her husband's loveto her sister; and she expected she shouldbe better esteemed if she bare him children.She, therefore in treated God perpetually, andwhen she had borne a son, and her husbandwas on that account better reconciled to her,she named her son Reubel, because God hadhad mercy upon her in giving her a son, forthat is the signification of this name. Aftersome time she bare three more sons; Simeon,which name signifies that God had hearkenedto her prayer; Levi, the confirmer of theirfriendship; and Judah, which denotes thanks­giving. But Rachel, fearing lest the fruit-fulness of her sister, should estrange Jacob'saffection from herself, gave him her handmaidBilba, by whom Jacob had Dan: one mayinterpret that name into the Greek tongue, adivine judgment; and after him Nephthalim,as it were unconquerable in stratagems; sinceRachel tried to conquer the fruitfulness of hersister by this stratagem. Accordingly Leatook the same method, and used a counterstratagem to that of her sister's; for she gaveJacob her own handmaid Zilpha, by whom hehad a son, whose name was Gad, which maybe interpreted fortune; and after him Asher,which may be called a happy man, becausehe added glory to Lea. Now Reubel, the eldest son of Lea, broughtapples of mandrakes to his mother. WhenRachel saw them, she desired that she wouldgive her the apples, for she longed to eatthem; but when she refused, and bid her becontent that she had deprived her of the be­nevolence she ought to have had from herhusband, Rachel, in order to mitigate hersister's anger, said she would yield her hus­band to her that evening. She accepted ofthe favour, and Jacob slept with Lea, whobare then these sons; Issachar, denoting one onboth sides, and dismiss again after the time contractedfor is over, who are no slaves, but free men and freewomen.