OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 227 It is the first care of a reformer to prevent any chap.future reformation. To maintain the text of the xxxvn-Pandects, the Institutes, and the Code, the use of Legal in-ciphers and abbreviations was rigorously proscribed ; justiiJan."and as Justinian recollected that the perpetual edicthad been buried under the weight of commentators,he denounced the punishment of forgery against therash civilians who should presume to interpret orpervert the will of their sovereign. The scholars ofAccursius, of Bartolus, of Cujacius, should blush fortheir accumulated guilt, unless they dare to disputehis right of binding the authority of his successors,and the native freedom of the mind. But the em­peror was unable to fix his own inconstancy; and,while he boasted of renewing the exchange of Dio-mede, of transmuting brass into gold*, he discoveredthe necessity of purifying his gold from the mixtureof baser alloy. Six years had not elapsed from the Secondpublication of the Code before he condemned the the Code,imperfect attempt, by a new and more accurate edi- N0v?'i6?4'tion of the same work; which he enriched with twohundred of his own laws, and fifty decisions of thedarkest and most intricate points of jurisprudence.Every year, or, according to Procopius, each day, ofhis long reign, was marked by some legal innovation.Many of his acts were rescinded by himself; manywere rejected by.his successors, many have beenobliterated by time; but the number of sixteenedicts, and one hundred and sixty-eight novels f, The Novels,has been admitted into the authentic body of the '!s65.civil jurisprudence. In the opinion of a philosopher • Xpue-ia .^a'huiwi, ixaro.ufti iwnt&iuiv, apud Horaerum pattem omnia virtutis(1st Prafat. ad Pandect.). A line of Milton or Tasso would surprise us in anact of parliament. Qua; omnia obtinere sancimus in omne aevum. Of the firstCode, he says (2d Prafat.) in a;temum valiturum. Man and for ever! f Novella: is a classic adjective, but a barbarous substantive (Ludewig, p. 245).Justinian never collected them himself: the nine collations, the legal standard ofmodern tribunals, consist of ninety-eight Novels; but the number was increasedby the diligence of Julian, Haloander, and Contius (Ludewig. p. 249. 258.Alcman. Not. in Anecdot. p. 98). q2