OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.' 539 u danger, and then you shall have them all at once under your" power, with all such as you shall yourselves bring in also."Upon my saying this, I pacified the multitude, and they left oft'their anger, and went their ways ; and I gave orders that he whobrought the king's letters should be put into bonds ; but in a few-days I pretended that I was obliged, by a necessary affair of myown, to go out of the kingdom. I then called Crispus privately,and ordered him to make the soldier that kept him drunk, andto run away to the king. So, when Tiberias was in danger ofbeing utterly destroyed a second time, it escaped the danger bymy skilful management, and the care that I had for its preser­vation. 70. About this time it was that Justus, the son of Pistus,without my knowledge, ran away to the king; the occasion ofwhich I will here relate. Upon the beginning of the war be­tween the Jews and the Romans, the people of Tiberias re­solved to submit to the king, and not to revolt from the Ro­mans ; while Justus tried to persuade them to betake themselvesto their arms, as being himself desirous of innovations, andhaving hopes of obtaining the government of Galilee, as well asof his own country [[Tiberias] also. Yet did he not obtain whathe hoped for ; because the Galileans bore ill-will to those ofTiberias, and on this account of their anger at what miseriesthey had suffered from them before the war ; thence it was,that they would not endure that Justus should be their governor.I myself also, who had been intrusted by the community of Jeru­salem with the government of Galilee, did frequently come tothat degree of rage at Justus, that I had almost resolved to killhim, as not able to bear his mischievous disposition. He wastherefore much afraid of me, lest at length my passion shouldcome to extremity ; so he went to the king, as supposing that heshould dwell better and more safely with him. 71. Now, when the people of Sepphoris had, in so surprisinga manner, escaped their first danger, they sent to Cestius Gal-lus, and desired him to come to them immediately, and takepossession of their city, or else to send forces sufficient to repressall their enemies incursions upon them ; and at the last theydid prevail with Gallus to send them a considerable army, bothof horse and foot, which came in the night-time, and whichthey admitted into the city. But when the country round a-bout it was harassed by the Roman army, I took those soldiersthat were about me, and came to Garisme, where I cast up abank, a good way off the city Sepphoris ; and when I was attwenty furlongs distance, I came upon it by night, and madean assault upon its "walls with my forces; and,when I had or­dered