OCR Output 208 [book yr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he, with great sincerity, told him; that hewould believe what he said, when he shouldeither see him killed himself, or learn it uponinquiry from others; and that the reason whyhis father did not tell him of these thingswas, that he knew of the friendship and affec­tion that he bore towards him.* When Jonathan found that this intention ofSaul's was so well attested, he asked himwhat he would have him do for him? to whichDavid replied, "I am sensible that thou artwilling to gratify me in every thing, and pro­cure me what I desire. Now to-morrow isthe new moon; and I was accustomed to sitdown then with the king at supper. If itseem good to thee, I will go out of the city,and conceal myself privately there. And ifSaul inquire why I am absent, tell him, that fam gone to my city Bethlehem, to keep afestival with my own tribe; and add this also,that thou gavest leave so to do. And if hesay, as is usually said in the case of friendsthat are gone abroad, it is well that he went;then assure thyself that no latent mischief orenmity may be feared at his hands. But ithe answer otherwise; that will be a sure signthat he hath some design against me. Ac­cordingly thou shalt inform me of thy father'sinclinations, and that out of pity to my case,and out of thy friendship for me: as instancesof which friendship, thou hast vouchsafed toaccept the assurances of my love to thee;and to give the like assurances to me; thatis, those of a master to his servant. But ifthou discoverest any wickedness in me, dothou prevent thy father, and kill me thyself'f But Jonathan heard those last words withindignation; and promised to do what he de­sired of him, and to inform him if his father'sanswer implied any thing of a melancholynature, and any enmity against him. Andthat he might the more firmly depend uponhim, he took him out into the open field, intothe pure air, and sware that he would neglectnothing that might tend to his preservation;Jand he said, "I appeal to that God, who, as thou seest, is diffused every where, andknoweth this intention of mine, before I ex­plain it in words, as the witness of this mycovenant with thee; that I will not leave offto make frequent trials of the purpose of myfather, till I learn whether there be anylurking distemper in the most secret parts ofhis soul; and when I have learnt it, I will notconceal it from thee; but will discover it tothee, whether he be gently or peevishly dis­posed. For this God himself knows, that Ipray he may always be with thee; for he iswith thee now, and will not forsake thee; butwill make thee superior to thine enemies;whether my father be one of them, or whether1 myself be such. Do thou only rememberwhat we now do; and if it happen, that I die,preserve my children alive, and requite whatkindnesses thou hast now received, to them."When he had thus sworn, he dismissed David,bidding him to go to a certain part of thatplain, where he used to perform his exercises.For as soon as he knew the mind of his father,he would come thither to him, with one ser­vant: and "If," said he, "I shoot three dartsat the mark, and then bid my servant carrythose three darts away, for they are beforehim; know thou that there is no mischief tobe feared from my father; but if thou hearestme say the contrary, expect the contrarytreatment from the king.|| However, thoushalt gain security by my assistance, andshalt by no means suffer any harm. But seethat thou dost not forget what I have desiredof thee, in the time of thy prosperity, and beserviceable to my children." Now David,when he had received these assurances fromJonathan, went to the place appointed. On the next day, which was the new moon,the king, when he had purified himself, as thecustom was, came to supper; and when theresat by him his son Jonathan on his right hand,and Abner, the captain of his host, on theother hand, he saw David's seat empty; butsaid nothing; supposing that he had not puri­fied himself, and so could not be present. * 1 Sam. xx. 3. t 1 Sam. xx. 8. J Various ceremonies have been used on these occa­sions. When treaties were made, either of a private orpublic nature, such usages were observed as were ofestablished authority, or 'tignificantly important. TheScythians had a peculiar method of forming their treaties.Herodotus (1. iv c 70.) relates that they first poured wine into a large earthen vessel, and then the contractingparties, cutting their arms with a knife, let some of theirblood run into the wine, and stained likewise their armourtherewith. After which they themselves, and all thatwere present, drank of that liquor, making the strongestimprecations against the person that should violate thetreatv. B.It 1 Sam. xx. 22