OCR Output 144 LIVY. suffer themselves to be made Roman citizens. But howmuch that condition was to be wished for, they hadbeen taught by the Hernicians; who, when they hadthe option, preferred their own laws to the freedom ofthe Roman state. To people who wished for liberty tochoose what they judged preferable, the necessity ofbecoming Roman citizens would have the nature of apunishment.' In resentment of these declarations,uttered publicly in their assemblies, the Roman peopleordered war to be made on the jEquans ; and, in pro­secution of this new undertaking, both the consulsmarched from the city, and sat down at the distance offour miles from the camp of the enemy. The troops ofthe jEquans, like tumultuary recruits, in consequenceof their having passed such a number of years withoutwaging war on their own account, were all in disorderand confusion, without established officers and withoutcommand. Some advised to give battle, others to de­fend the camp ; the greater part were influenced byConcern for the devastation of their lands, likely to takeplace, and the consequent destruction of their cities,left with weak garrisons. Among a variety of proposi­tions, they however heard one which tended to transferevery man's attention from the public interests to thecare of his private concerns. It recommended that, atthe first watch, they should depart from the camp bydifferent roads, and carry all their effects into the cities,where they might be secured by the strength of thefortifications: this they all approved and warmly cele­brated. When the enemy were now dispersed throughthe country, the Romans, at the first dawn, marchedout to the field, and drew up in order of battle, but noone coming to oppose them, they advanced in a briskpace to the camp. Perceiving neither guards beforethe gates, nor soldiers on the ramparts, nor the usualbustle of a camp,—surprised at the extraordinary si­lence, they halted in apprehension of some stratagem.At length, passing over the rampart, and finding thewhole deserted, they proceeded to search out the tractsof the enemy. But these, as they scattered themselves