OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE R0MAM EMPIRE. 201 Romans. Their industry had scooped the Sibyl's cave*into a prodigious mine; combustible materials were in­troduced to consume the temporary props: the wall andthe gate of Cumae sunk into the cavern, but the ruinsformed a deep and inaccessible precipice. On the frag­ment of a rock Aligern stood alone and unshaken, till hecalmly surveyed the hopeless condition of his country,and judged it more honourable to be the friend of Nar-ses than the slave of the Franks. After the death ofTeias, the Roman general separated his troops to reducethe cities of Italy; Lucca sustained a long and vigoroussiege: and such was the humanity or the prudence ofNarses, that the repeated perfidy of the inhabitants couldnot provoke him to exact the forfeit lives of their host­ages. These hostages were dismissed in safety; andtheir grateful zeal at length subdued the obstinacy oftheir countrymen Before Lucca had surrendered, Italy was overwhelmed Invasionby a new deluge of barbarians. A feeble youth, the uJpnnk*grandson of Clovis, reigned over the Austrasians or aild ^le"oriental Franks. The guardians of Theodebald enter- A-D- sss,tained with coldness and reluctance the magnificent pro-mises of the Gothic ambassadors. But the spirit of amartial people outstripped the timid counsels of thecourt: two brothers, Lothaire and Buccelin,b the dukesof the Alemanni, stood forth as the leaders of the Ita­lian war; and seventy-five thousand Germans descendedin the autumn from the Rhastian Alps into the plain ofMilan. The vanguard of the Roman army was sta- 1 Agathias (lib. 1. o. 21.) settles the Sibyll's cave under Hie walls of Cumos; heagrees with Servins; (ad lib. 6. jEneid.) nor can I perceive wby their opinion shouldbe rejected by Heyne, the excellent editor of Virgil, (tom. 2. p. 650, 651.) In orbemedia secreta religio! ButCmme was not yet built; and the lines (lib. 6.96, 97.)would become ridiculous, if iEneas were actually in a Greek city. »JThere is some difficulty in connecting the thirty-fifth chapter of the fourth bookof the Gothic war of Procopius with the first book of the history of Agnthias. Wemust now relinquish a statesman and soldier, to attend the footsteps of a poet andrhetoriciau. (lib. 1. p. 11. lib. 2. p. 51. edit. Louvre.)''' b Among the fabulous exploits of Buccelin, he discomfited and slew Belisarius,subdued Italy aud Sicily, &e. See, in the Historians of France, Gregory of Tours(tom. 2. lib. 3. c. 32. p. 203.), and Almoin. (tom. 3. lib. 2. o> Gestis Francorum,c 23. p. 59) '■ >