OCR Output Chap. IX. WARS OF THE :EWSi 5275 laid against him before his tribunal, for the mischiefs he haddone to the Romans. But Ptolemy, the son of Menneus, whowas then ruler of Chaleis, under Libanus, took his brethren tohim, by sending his son Philippic for them to Ascalon, who tookAntigonus, as well as his sisters, away from Aristobulus's wife,and brought them to his father; and falling in love with theyounger daughter, he married her, and was afterward slain byhis father, on her account; for Ptolemy himself, after he hadslain his son, married her, whose name was Alexandra ; on ac­count of which marriage, he took the greater care of her brotherand sister. 3. Now, after Pompey was dead, Antipater changed sides, andcultivated a friendship with Caesar. And, since Mithridates ofPergamus, with the forces he led against Egypt, was excludedfrom the avenues about Pelusium, and was forced to stay at As­calon, he persuaded the Arabians, among whom he had lived, toassist him, and came himself to him, at the head of three thousandarmed men^ He also encouraged the men of power in Syria tocome to his assistance, as also of the inhabitants of Libanus, Pto­lemy, and Jamblicus, and another Ptolemy; by which means thecities of that country came readily into this war; insomuch, thatMithridates ventured now, iri dependence upon the additionalstrength that he had gotten by Antipater, to march forward toPelusium ; ahd^ when they refused him a passage through it, hebesieged the city; in the attack of which place, Antipater prin­cipally signalized himself, for he brought down that part of thewall which was over against him, and leaped first Of all into thecity, with the men that were about him. 4. Thus was Pelusium taken. But still, as they were march­ing on, those Egyptian Jews that inhabited the country, calledthe country of Chiias, stopped them. Then did Antipater notonly pesuade them not to stop them, but to afford provisions fortheir army ; on which account even the people about Memphiswould not fight against them, but, of their Own accord, joinedMithridates. Whereupon he went round about Delta, andfought the rest of the Egyptians At a place called the JewsCamp : nay^ when he Was in danger in the battle with all hisright wing, Antipater wheeled about, and came along the bankof the river to him ; for he had beaten those that opposed himas he led the left wing. After which success he fell upon thosethat pursued Mithridates, and slew a great many of them, andpursued the remainder so far that he took their camp, whilehe lost no more than fourscore of his own men; as Mithridateslost, during the pursuit that was made after him, about eighthundred. He was also himself saved unexpectedly, and became M m2 an