OCR Output 124 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. the other Italian allies the former rights of the Latins. Batthe proposal encountered the united opposition of the senateand the mob of the capital. The nature of this coalitionand its mode of conflict are clearly and distinctly seen froman accidentally preserved fragment of the speech which theconsul Gaius Fannius made to the burgesses in opposition tothe proposal. "Do ye then think," said the Optimate,"that, if ye confer the franchise on the Latins, ye willbe able to find a place in future—just as you are now stand­ing there in front of me—in the burgess assembly or at thegames and popular amusements? Do you not believe, on thecontrary, that those people will occupy every spot?" Amongthe burgesses of the fifth century, who on one day conferredthe franchise on all the Sabines, such an orator might per­haps have been hissed; those of the seventh found hisreasoning uncommonly clear and the price of the assignationof the Latin domains, which was offered to it by Gracchus,far too low. The very circumstance, that the senate carrieda permission to eject from the city all non-burgesses beforethe day for the decisive vote, showed the fate in storefor the proposal. And when before the voting LiviusDrusus, a colleague of Gracchus, interposed his veto againstthe law, the people received the veto in such a way thatGracchus could not venture to proceed further or to preparefor Drusus the fate of Marcus Octavius.Overthrow It was, apparently, this success which emboldened theof Gracchus, senate to attempt the overthrow of the victorious dema­gogue. The weapons of attack were substantially the samewith which Gracchus himself had formerly operated.Gracchus' power rested on the mercantile class and theproletariate, primarily on the latter, which as it wereplayed the part of the army in this conflict wherein neitherside had any military reserve. It was clear that the senatewas not powerful enough to wrest either from the merchantsor from the proletariate their new privileges; every attempt toassail the corn-laws or the new jury-arrangement would haveled, under a somewhat grosser or somewhat more civilizedform, to a street-riot in presence of which the senate wasutterly defenceless. But it was no less clear, that Gracchushimself and these merchants and proletarians were only kepttogether by mutual advantage, and that the men of materialinterests were ready to accept their posts, and the populacestrictly so-called its bread, just as well from any other as