OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 1G1 sessed, laid themselves out to make friends of theGauls instead of enemies ; in order that, with theirarmies combined, they might attack the Romans. Thebarbarians made no objection to the alliance, and anegotiation was opened for settling the price; whichbeing adjusted and paid, the Etrurians, having everything else in readiness for commencing their opera­tions, desired them to accompany them in their march.But this they refused, alleging that ' they had stipu­lated a price for their assistance against the Romans :that the payment already made they had received inconsideration of their not wasting the Etrurian terri­tory, or using their arms against the inhabitants: that,notwithstanding, if it was the wish of the Etrurians,they were still willing to engage in the war; but on noother condition than that of being allowed a share oftheir lands, and obtaining at length some permanentsettlement.' Many assemblies of the states of Etruriawere held on this subject without being able to cometo any conclusion ; not so much by reason of theiraversion from the,dismemberment of their territory asof the dread which every one felt of the consequences,if they should fix in so close vicinity to themselvespeople of such a savage race. The Gauls were there­fore dismissed, and carried home an immense sum ofmoney, acquired without toil or danger. The reportof a Gallic tumult, in addition to an Etrurian war, hadcaused serious apprehensions at Rome; and, with theless hesitation on that account, an alliance was con­cluded with the state of the Picentians. 11. The province of Etruria fell by lot to the consulTitus Manlius; who, when he had but just entered theenemy's country, as he was exercising the cavalry, inwheeling about at full speed, was thrown from hishorse, and almost killed on the spot; three days afterhe died. The Etrurians, embracing this omen, as itwere, of the future progress of the war, and observingthat the gods had commenced hostilities on their be-'half, assumed new courage. At Rome the news causedgreat affliction, on account both of the loss of such a LIV. VOL. III. L