OCR Output POLLENTIA. P0LYG1UM. 645 .wrmiptce, bordered by precipitous banks—are:l« of an ancient Latin city; but whether they>vt Ibe lite of Pulitorium, as supposed by Gcll,17 a Irfleaae, as suggested by Nibby and adoptedy A^keu, we are wholly without the means ofiannang. (Gcll, Top. of Rome, p. 280 ; Nibby,Imini, vol. ii. p. 571, vol. iii. p. 146—152;AMra, lilltl ItaUen, p. 69.) The ruins at La(.•*« are more fully noticed under the articlemi. [E. H. B.] lMaU'NTIA. 1. (noAA«iTfo: Elk. Pollen-to /Uewsa), a city of Liguria, situated in theemu J Uul province, at the northern foot of theif man, near the confluence of the Stura andTaatro. It was about 7 miles W. of Alba Pompeia.Jl n» tttbably a Ligurian town before the Romanm>, ml, aod included in the territory of theNa>.ii; bat we do not meet with its name in bis­ter gold near the close of the Roman republic,it appears as a town of importance. In n. 0.ii M Asuauai, after his defeat at Mutina, with-*■ lo Vada Sshata, intending to proceed into[aaialttDe Gaul; but this being opposed by histafa, at was compelled to recross the Apennines,nit lie new of seizing on Pollentia; in which heaw, Iwwerer, anticipated by Deciinua Brutus, whoat occupied the city with fire cohorts. (Cic. ad'sa.zi.13L) Under the Roman Empire, Pollentia> %:u>jotd by Pliny among the "nobilia oppida *'tei adorned the tract of Liguria between theIf-.-jMs aod the Padus. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7.) Itsi cualerable manufactures of pottery, and theas frvdaced in its territory enjoyed great reputa-a. teriaf a natural dark colour. (1'lin. rib. 48.*l uit. 12. a. 46; Sil. Ital. TiiL 597 ; Martial,% Ut.) It is incidentally mentioned as a muni-at turn ander the reigu of Tiberius, having been>nif paaubed by that emperor for a tumult thatarrrd is its furum. (Suet. Tib. 37.) But itsaw a chiefly noted in history as the scene of apat tattle fought between Stilicho and the GothsAUric, in a. D. 403. The circumstances of • telle are my imperfectly known to u». andIn treat u rariously related; for while Clau- • mbratea it aa a glorious triumph, Orosius*•"••» it as a dubious success, and CassiodorusI J«ruodee boldly claim the victory for the^ (Ckadian, B. Get 580—647; Prudent,r^aoa, ii. 696—749: Oros. vii. 37; Prosper.*■ f. ISO; Caasiod. Citron, p. 450; Jornand. •' I Bat it teems certain that it was attendedI peat slaughter on both sides, and that it ledI wsttrary retreat of the Gothic king. No■aam mention is found of it, and we have no"* of the circumstances of its decay or de- ■ ■ name doea not reappear in the•tea, and the modern Pollenza is a poori jQoilerable remains of the ancient citybe traced, though in a very decayed con-include the traces of a theatre, ana temple, and other buildings; andascriptions have also been discovered on theL tea confirming the evidence of its ancientywcy aod importance. (Millin, Voyage en■■*> dt. voL ii. p. 55.) The ruins are situatedfrom the modern town of Cheratco, butk>* auk of the Tanaro.I A taws of picrnam mentioned only by Pliny,tbt " popali" of that region, enumeratest'-'Y-u. whom be unites with the Lrbs Salvia1 a«ta that steins to prove the two comniu- nities to have been united into one. (UrbesalviaFollentini, Plin. iii. 14. s. 18.) The Urbs Salvia,now Urbisaglia, is well known; and the site ofPollentia must be sought in its immediate neigh­bourhood, llolstenius places it at Monte Melone,on a hill on the left bank of the Chienti betweenMaecrata and Tolentino, about 3 miles torn t'rfci-tnglia on the opposite side of the valley. (Holstcn.Not. ad Cluv. p. 138.) [E. 11. B.] POLLE'NTIA. [Baleabes.]POLLUSCA or POLUSCA (IloXoioKa: Eth.no\WKa.v6i, Polluscinus: Caaal delta Alandria),a city of Latium, which appears in the early historyof Rome inseparably connected with Longula andCorioli. Thus, in b. c. 493, we find the three placesenumerated in succession as reduced by the arms ofPostumus Coininius; and again in B. c. 488 allthree were recovered by the Volscians under thecommand of Coriolanus. (Liv. ii. 33, 39; Dionys.vi. 91,viii. 36.) No subsequent mention of Polluscaoccurs, except that its name is found in Pliny,among the cities of Latium of which all trace haddisappeared. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9.) As its name isthere given among the places which had once sharedin the sacrifices on the Albun Mount, it is probablethat it was originally a Latin city, and had falleninto the hands of the Volscians; whence it iscalled, when first noticed in history, a Volscian city.Livy. indeed, appears to regard Longula and Polluscaas belonging to the Volsci Antiates, and thereforeat that time mere dependencies of Antium. Theposition of Pollusca, as well as that of Longula, mustbe in great measure matter of conjecture, but thesite suggested by Nibby, on a hill adjoining theOsteria di Cicita, about 22 miles from Rome, on theroad to Porto of Anzo, has at least a plausibleclaim to that distinction. The hill in question w hichis included in the farm of the Casal delta Muwlria,stands just at the bifurcation of the two roads thatlead to Porto d' Anzo and to Conca: il was noticedby Sir YV. Gell as the probable site of an ancienttown, and suggested as one of those which might beselected for Corioli: if we place the latter city atMonte Ciore, the site more generally adopted,Pollusca may very well have been at the Oateria diCivita ; but the point is one which can never bodetermined with certainty. (Gell, Top of Rome,p. 183; Nibbv, Dintorni, vol. i. p. 402; Abcken,Mittel ItaBmf. 72.) [E. II. B.] POLTYOBRIA. [Aenus.]POLYAEGUS (noAuacvoj), a desert island inthe Aegaean sea, near Melos. (Ptol. iii. 15. § 28;Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7.) It is cither Poh/l>os,or perhaps Antimelos with its wild goats. (Ross,Reisen auf den Griech. Inteln, vol. iii. p. 26.)POLYANTHES. [Amantia.]POLYANUS (Ilo\oo»oi) a mountain in Epeirusmentioned by Strain) (vii. p. 327) along with To-inarus. POLY'BOTL'S (rioAittoToj), a place in the westof Phrygia Major, a little to the south-east of Syn-nada, is mentioned only by Hierocles (p. 677) anda few Byzantine writers (Procop. Hut. Are. 18;Anna Comnen. p. 324; Concil. Nicaen. ii. p. 358),who, however, do not give the name correctly, but callit Polybatus or Polygotus. Col. Leake (Alia .1/in.p. 53) identifies the site of Polybotus with the mo­dern Bulwudun, which he regards as only a Turkishcorruption of the ancient name. [L. S.J POLY'GIUM, a place on the south coast of Galliamentioned in the Ora Maritima of Avienus (v. 611): t t 3