OCR Output 330 ROMAN EMPIRE. his faults and virtues, that I should decide whether thetitle of enthusiast or impostor more properly belongs tothat extraordinary man. Had I been intimately con­versant with the son of Abdallah, the task would stillbe difficult, and the success uncertain: at the distanceof twelve centuries, I darkly contemplate his shadethrough a cloud of religious incense; and could I trulydelineate the portrait of an hour, the fleeting resemblancewould not equally apply to the solitary of mount Hera,to the preacher of Mecca, and to the conqueror of Arabia.The author of a mighty revolution appears to have beenendowed with a pious and contemplative disposition:so soon as marriage had raised him above the pressureof want, he avoided the paths of ambition and avarice;and, till the age of forty, he lived with innocence, andwould have died without a name. The unity of God isan idea most congenial to nature and reason; and aslight conversation with the Jews and Christians wouldteach him to despise and detest the idolatry of Mecca.It was the duty of a man and a citizen to impart thedoctrine of salvation, to rescue his country from the do­minion of sin and error. The energy of a mind inces­santly bent on the same object, would convert a generalobligation into a particular call; the warm suggestionsof the understanding or the fancy, would be felt as theinspirations of heaven; the labour of thought would ex­pire in rapture and vision; and the inward sensation,the invisible monitor, would be described with the formand attributes of an angel of God.q From enthusiasmto imposture, the step is perilous and slippery: the de­mon of Socratesr affords a memorable instance, how a t The Christians, rashly enough, have assigned to Mahomet a tarn* pigeon, thatseemed to descend from heaven and whisper in his ear. As this pretended miracleis urged by Grotius (de Veritate Religions Christianae), hu Arabic translator, thelearned Pocock, inquired of him the names of bis authors ; and Grotius confessed,that it is unknown to the Mahometans themselves. Lest it should provoke theirindignation and laughter, the pious lie is suppressed in the Arabic version . bat ithas maintained an edifying place in the numerous editions of die Lai iu text. < I'o-cock, Specimen, Hist. Arabum, p. 186,187. Reland, de Religion. Moharn. lib. f.c. 39. p. 259—62.) '