OCR Output 156 LIVY. has sailed over from the Baleares, and is now cruisingon the coast of the Alpine Ligurians) to join his forcesto those of Hannibal? We should then be seized withthe same terror which we felt lately, on hearing of theapproach of Hasdrubal, and whom you, (who are toshut up with your army, not only Carthage, but allAfrica,) allowed to slip through your hands into Italy.You will say that he was defeated by you: the less,for that very reason, can I wish that be should be per­mitted, after being defeated, to march into this coun­try; and that, not only on the account of the public,but your own also. Allow us to ascribe to your goodconduct all those events in your province which werefavorable to you and to the state, and to impute suchas were unfavorable to fortune, and to the chances ofwar. The more merit and bravery you possess, themore is your country and all Italy concerned to keepat home so powerful a protector. You cannot but ac-knowlege that wherever Hannibal is, there the mainstress and head of the present war must be looked for:yet the reason you give for passing over into Africa is,that you may draw Hannibal thither. Whether theCarthaginians, therefore, be in this country or in that,your business is to oppose him. Now, I pray you,whether will you be better able to cope with himin Africa, where you are to stand alone, or here,with the army of your colleague joined to your own?Is not the importance of this consideration sufficientlyevinced by the recent fate of the consuls Claudius andLivius? What! is Hannibal to be feared here, as re­ceiving an augmentation of men and arms from the re­motest corner of the country of Bruttium, (and whichhe in vain solicits from home,) or with Carthage at hisback, and all Africa confederated with him? Whatis this plan of choosing to fight there, where yourforces must be less by half, and those of the enemyconsiderably greater, rather than here, at the head oftwo armies against one, and that one impaired instrength by so many battles, and by such long and la­borious service? Consider well how far this plan of