OCR Output 102 JULIAX0P0LIS. JUKCAK. Juliarnm, and from Juliacum through Tiberiacumto Cologne. On this road also Juliacum is placed18 leagues from Cologne. Juliacum is Julitrs, orJulich, us the Germans call it, on the river Boer, onthe carriage road from Cologne to A ix-la- Ckapelle. The first part of the word seems to be the Humanname Juli-, which is rendered more probable byfinding between Juliacum and Colonia a place Ti-beriacum (Berchcim or lierg^tn). A cum is acommon ending of the names of towns in NorthGallia. [G. L.] JULIAXO'POLIS ('lov\tayoi*o\n), a town inLydia which is not mentioned until the time ofllicrocles (p. 670), according to whom it was situ­ated close to Maeonia, and must bo looked for inthe southern parts of Mount Tmolus, between Phila­delphia andTrallcs. (Comp. I'lin. v. 29.) [L. S.] JULIAS. [Bethsaida.] JULIO'BONA ClovKioSora), a town in GalliaBclgica, is the city of the Caleti.or Calcitae as Pto­lemy writes the name (ii. 8. § 5), who occupied thePayt de Cnux. [Cai.eti.] The place is LUlebone,on the little river Bolkec, near the north bank of theSeine, between Havre and Caudebec, in the presentde]iartment of Seine /n/crieute. The Itins. showseveral roads from Juliobona; one to Ilotomagus( Rouen), through Breviodurum; and another throughBreviodurum to Noviomagus (Liiietu), on the southside of the Seine. The road from Juliobona to thewest terminated at Carocotinnm. [Carocxitinum.]The place has the name Juliabuna in the Latinmiddle ape writings. It was a favourite residenceof the dukes of Nonnandie, and William, named theConqueror, had a castle here, where he often resided. The name Juliobona is one of many examples ofa word formed hy a Koman prefix (Julio) and aCeltic termination (Bona), like Augustobona, Julio-magus. The word Divona or Itibona [Divona] hasthe same termination. It appears from a middle ageLatin writer cited by D'Anvillc (Notice, <)'•<?., Julio­bona), that the place was then called Illebona, fromwhich tho modern name Lillebonne has come byprefixing the article; as the river Oltis in the southof France has become LOU, ami Lot. The name Juliubona, the traces of the old roads,and the remains discovered on the site of Lilltbonneprove it to have been a Human town. A Komantheatre, tombs, medals, and antiquities, have beendiscovered. [G. L.] JULIOBRTGA C\ov\i6Gptya), the chief city ofthe Cantabri, in Hispaaia Tarraconensis, belongingto the conventus of Clunia, stood near the sources ofthe Euro, on the eminence of Hetortillo, S. of liey-no»n. Five stones still mark the bounds whichdivided its territory from that of Legio IV. It hadits port, named Port us Vicloriae Juliobrigensium,at Santimmt. (I'lin. ill 3. s. 4, iv. 20. s. 3-1; Ptol.ii. 6. § 51; Inscr. an. Gruter, p 354; Morales,Antig. p. 68; ¥lorm,Etp.S. vol. vi. p.417; Cantnbr.p. C4; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 443.) [P. S.] JULIOMAGUS (lov\i6nayai), a town of theAndecavi, in Gallia Lugdnnensis, and their capital, j(Ptol. ii. 8. § 8.) It is named Juliumagus in the'Table, and marked as a capital. It is now Angeri. j[Andecavi.] [G.1..] JULIO'POLIS. [GoiumiM and Tabsi's.] JULIO'POLIS AEGYPTI. Pliny (vi. 23. «. 26)Alone among ancient geographers mentions this placeamong the towns of Lower Argypt From t he silenceof his predecessors, and from the name itself, wemay reasonably infer ks recent origin. According to Pliny, Juliopolis stood about 20 miles distantfrom Alexandria, upon the banks of the canal whichconnected that city with the Canopic arm of theNile. Some geographers suppose Juliopolis to havebeen no other than Nicnpolis, or the City of Victory,founded by Augustus Caesar in B. c. 29, partly tocommemorate his reduction of Aegypt to a Komanprovince, and partly to punish the Alexandrians fortheir adherence to Cleopatra and M. Antonio*.Mannert, on the contrary (x. i. p. 626), beheiesJuliopolis to have been merely that suburb of Alrx-andreia which Strabo (xvii. p. 795) calls Elrusis.At this place the Nile-boats, proceeding up the river,took in cargoes and passengers. [\V. B. D.J lU'LIS. [Ckos.] JU'LIUM CA'RNICUM ('IoiiA.o* Kd>r.«or,Ptol:Zuglio), a town of the Carni, situated at the foot ofthe Julian Alps, which, from its name, would seemto have been a Koman colony founded either byJulius Caesar, or in his honour by Augustus. IfPaulus Diaconus is correct in ascribing the foun­dation of Forum Julii to the dictator himself (P.Diac. But. Lang. ii. 14), there is little doubt thatJulium Carnicum dates from the same period: batwe have no account of its foundation. Ptolemy inone place distinctly describes it as in Xoricum(viii. 7. $ 4), in another more correctly as situatedon the frontiers of Noricnra and Italy (jirra^u t^i'IraAJat fral NwoikoO, ii. 13. § 4). But Pliny ex­pressly includes it in the territory of the Carni andthe tenth region of Italy (" Julienses Camorum," iii.19. s. 23), and its position on the S. side of the Alpsclearly entitles it to be considered in Italy. Itsposition is correctly indicated by the Itinerary ofAntoninus (p. 219), which places it CO M. P., frontAqiiileia, on the road leading nearly due N. fromthat city over the Julian Alps. The first stage onthis road, " Ad Tricesimum," still retains the nameof Trigesimo, and the sito of Julium Carnicum ismarked by the village of Zuglio (where some Kotnaaremains have been discovered), in a side valley open­ing into that of the Tagliamento, about 4 miles abor*Tulmezzo. The pass from thence over the M<mUdi Sta. Croce into the valley of the Gail, now prac­ticable only for mules, follows the line of the ancientKoman road, given in the Itinerary, and thereforeprobably a frequented pass under the Humana[Alprs, p. 110, No. 7J: but the inscription onthe faith of which the construction of this road hasbeen ascribed to Julius Caesar is a palpable furgrrv.(Clover. Ital. p. 200.) [R R B] JUNCAKIA, JUNCAKIUS CAMPUS. [I»- DIOETBS.] JUNOXIA INSULA. [Fortlsatab Lw.]JURA. [Hr.i.vBTii j Gai.ua, p. 941.1JUKCAb C'lvpKOt), mentioned by Herodotus(iv. 22) as lying contiguous to the Thyuagrtae.who lay beyond the Uudini, who lay beyond tij*Sauromatae of the Palus Maeotis and Lower Tanais.Their country was well-wooded. They were hunters,and had horses. This poiuts to some portion ofthe lower I'ralian range. They were probablytribes of the I'grian stock, akin to the prnrntMorduint, T$herimi*s, Tthuvathe*, of which theywere the most southern portion. The reason forfor this lies in the probability of the name bring aderivative from the root -ir- (as in limit* andCarin-thm) = honier, or boundary, some form Jwhich gave the Slavonic population their equivalentto ths Germanic name ifarconuiwti = J/orr4.asm. [K. G. I_]