OCR Output VENUSIA. VEItCELLAE. 1277 suited strength with a fresh body of colonists.Liv. xxxi. 49.) From this time Venusia seems tolire always continued to be a flourishing town andt« of the most considerable places in this part ofuly. It bnre an important part in the Social War,stmg early joined in the outbreak, and became onet the principal strongholds of the allies in the southf Italy. (Appian, B. C. i. 39, 42.) Iu the secondcar of the war its territory was ravaged by theIonian praetor Cosconius, but we do not learn thatbe city itself fell into his hands, (lb. 52.) At alltents it did not saner severely, as it is afterwards.rationed by Appian as one of the most flourishingities of Italy '.Pi. ir. 3) ; and Strabo also notices: as one of the few cities in this region which'tinned their consideration in his time (v. p.50). It received a colony of veterans nnder theriumvirate (Appian, B. C. iv. 3; Zuinpt, de Colon.332), and seems to have retained the rank of a'..lotus under the Empire, as we find it bearing thatKignatiun both in Pliny and in inscriptions. (Plin.i. U.S. 16 ; Orell. Inter. 867; Mutnnuen, Inter.i. If. 73S, 745.) Its position ou the Appian Wayuseless contributed to its prosperity, and it is men-med more than once by Cicero as a customarydting-place in proceeding from Home to Brundu-mn. (Cic. «./ v..*.. mi. .*>.) It appears in-red that the great orator had himself a villa there,lone of his letters is dated "de Venusino" (adam. xir. 20). But the chief interest of Venusia isndnubtedly derived from its having been the birth-lice of Horace, who was born there in the consul-np of L. Manlius Torquatus and L. Aurelius Cotta,. c. 65. (H«r. Carm. iii. 21. 1.) The works of ■ poet abound in allusions to the neighbourhood ofis native city, the fountain of Bandusia, the forests Mount Yultur, &c. But it docs not appear that I ever resided there in the latter years of his life,iring lost his paternal estate, which was confiscatedi the civil wars. (Id. Kp. ii. 2.) We hear nothing of Venusia under the Romanmpire, but it is certain from the Liber Colouiarum,huh mentions it among the Civitates Apuliae, and in the Itineraries, that it continued to exist as a(J, snd apparently one of the most considerable iniu part of Italy. (1'tol. iii. 1. § 73 ; Lib. Colon.;> 210, 261; Itm. Ant. pp. 104. 113, 121 ; Tab.tut.) This is further confirmed by inscriptions, one of which it is called "splendida civitas Yenu-timim." (Momiusen, /. R. A'. 706.) It retained ■ same consideration throughout the middle ages, II is still Ml episcopal city with about 6000 inha­lants. Its antiquities have been illustrated with avifusion of erudition by Italian writers, but it has ■ ancient remains of much interest; though frag-Mits of ancient edifices, mosaic pavements, &c.i'e been found on the site, as well as numerous in->i prions. These last have been collected and pub-Ued by Mons. Lupoli, in his Marmora Venutina COD! OF VENUSIA. (added as an appendix to the Iter f'envtinum, 4to- Keapoli, 1797), and more recently by Mummsen, inhis Interiptionet Uegni Keapolitani (pp. 39—48).Concerning the antiquities of Venusia in general,see the work of Lupoli above quoted, and that ofCimaglia (Antiquitatet Venurinae, 4to. Neapol.1757.) [E. H. B.] VEPITENUM or VIPITEXUM, a place in thedistrict occupied by the Venostes in Rhaelia, betweenVeldidena and Tridentum. (It. Ant. pp. 275, 280;Tab. Petit.) Its modem representative is, in allprobability, the town of Sterzing on the Kitueh, atthe foot of the Brenner. [ L. S. | VERAGRI (Ovdpaypoi). The Verngri are placedby Caesar (ii. G. iii. 1,6) in the Valait of Swit­zerland between the Nantnates and the Seduni,[Xantuates; SedUSI]. Their town was Octodurus(Martigtiy), whence the Yeragri are called Octodu-renses by Pliny [OCTODUBVS]. Dion Cassius(xxxix. 5), using Caesar as he generally used him,says that the Yeragii extended from the territoryof the Allobroges and the Leiiian lake to the Alps;which is not true. Strabo (iv. p. 204) mentions theYaragri, as he calls them, between the Caturigesand the Nantuatae ; and Pliny (iii. 20) between theSeduni and the Sala-si: the Salassi are on theItalian side of the Alps in the Vol ./ Iutta. Livy(xxi. 38) places the Veragri among the Alps andon the road to the pass of the Pennine Alps, or theGreat St. Bernard, which is correct. He says thatthe pass was ireupied by half German tribes. [G. L.] VERBANL'S LACUS (i) ObtpSar6s Ai>nr. l-agoMaggiore), one of the principal lakes of NorthernItaly, formed by the river Ticinus, where it firstissues from the valleys of the Alps. (Plin. iii. 19.s. 24.) It is the largest of the three great lakes ofNorthern Italy, whence its modern name of LagoMaggiort; though Virgil appears to have consideredthe Larius as the largest, as be calls it, " Te, Larimaxime," and singularly enough does not mentionthe Verbanus at all. (Georo. ii. 159.) Strabo, bya strange mistake, describes the river Addua asflowing from the Lake Yerbauus, and the Ticinusfrom the Larius (iv. p. 209): this may, perhaps, bean error of the copyists, but is more probably an ac­cidental blunder of the author. He gives thelength of the lake at 400 stadia, or 40 geog. miles,which is somewhat below the truth, the actuallength being 46 geog. miles: its breadth does net ex­ceed 4 or 5 miles, except in one part, where it ex­pands to a width of from 8 lo 10 miles. [E. II. B.] VERBICAE or YERB1CES (OMptiKcu or Oiie>-Sorts, Ptol. iv. 1. § 10), a people of MauretanutTingitana, [T. H. I).] VERBIGENUS PAGUS. [Helvktii, Vol. Lp. 1041.] VEHBIXUM, in Gallia, is placed by the Itins. ona road from Bagacum (Bavai) to Durocortorum(Iieimt). Durouum is between Bagacum and Ver-binuin [Dironum]. All the several distancesbetween Bagacum and Durocortorum do not agree inthe Anlonine ltiu. and the Table. The sum total ofthese distances in the Table is 53 M. P., and thelliiL, though it makes the several distances amountto 63 M. P., still gives the sum total at 53 M. P.But these must be Gallic leagues, aa D'Anvilleshows. He supposes Verbinum to be Yervint, whichin fact is the same name as Verbinum. The tablewrites it Vironum. I'errin* is in the departmentof Aitne, about 20 miles XE. of I.aon. .<!. L.J VEHCELLAE (Oi)^a«AAm, I'toL iii. L | 36;