OCR Output 170 IHS JIWS CONTRIVE [B. V. the holy house; while the people, Who had no concern in thesedition, supposed that this assault was made against all with­out distinction ; as the zealots thought it was made againstthemselves only. So these left off guarding the gates anylonger, and leaped down from their battlements before theycame to an engagement, and fled away into the subterraneancaverns of the temple; while the people that stood tremblingat the altar and about the holy house were rolled on heapstogether, and trampled upon, and were beaten both withwooden and with iron weapons without mercy. Such also ashad differences with others slew many persons that were quiet,out of their own private enmity and hatred, as if they wereopposite to the seditious; and all those that had formerlyoffended any of these plotters were now known, and werenow led away to the slaughter: and when they had doneabundance of horrid mischief to the guiltless, they granted atruce to the guilty, and let those go off that came out of thecaverns. These followers of John also did now seize uponthis inner temple, and upon all the warlike engines therein,and then ventured to oppose Simon. And thus that seditionwhich had been divided into three factions, was now reducedto two. 2. But Titus, intending to pitch his camp nearer to thecity than Scopus, placed as many of his choice horsemen andfootmen as he thought sufficient opposite to the Jews, to pre­vent their sallying out upon them, while he gave orders forthe whole army to level the distance, as far as the wall of thecity. So they threw down all the hedges and walls which theinhabitants had made about their gardens and groves of trees,and cut down all the fruit-trees that lay between them andthe wall of the city, and filled up all the hollow places andthe chasms, and demolished the rocky precipices with ironinstruments: and thereby made all the place level, fromScopus to Herod's monuments, which adjoined to the poolcalled the Serpent's Pool. 3. Now at this very time the Jews contrived the followingstratagem against the Romans. The bolder sort of the sedi­tious went out at the towers called the Women's Towers, as