OCR Output 196 LIPARIS. LISSUS. Strabo and some other ancient writers speak ofvolcanic phenomena as occurring on the island ofLipara itself (Strab. vi. p. 275); but though itabounds in hot Bprings, and outbreaks of volcanicvapour, it does not appear probable that any volcaniceruptions on a larger scale have occurred therewithin the period of history. Those of the neigh­bouring island of Hiera (the VtbCAKI Insula ofthe Romans, now Volcano), from its proximity toLipara, of which it was a mere dependency, aresometimes described as if tliey hail occurred atLipara itself. (Oros. v. 10; JuL Obs. 89.) Thevolcanic phenomena of the Aeolian islands in generalare more fully noticed under the article AeouaeIssixae. [E. H. B.J coin or I.IPARA. LI'PARIS (Adraon), a small river in the east ofCilicia, which emptied itself into the sea at Soli,and was believed to derive its name from the oily-nature "fits waters. (Plin. v. 22; Antiu. CarysL150; Vitruv. viii. 3.) [L. S.] L1PAXUS (Airo^oi), a town of Crusis, or Cros-saea, in Macedonia, mentioned only by Hecataeus(Stepb. B. J. ».) and Herodotus (vii. 123). LIPPOS, AD. [Vkttonks.] LIPSYDRIUM [Attica, p. 326, b.] LIQUE'NTIA (it'renso), a considerable river ofVen-'tia, which rises in the Julian Alps to the N. ofOpitergium (Oderzo), and fljws into the Adriaticnear Caorle, about midway between tlie P'utvn(Plavis) and the Tagliamtnto (Tilaventum). (i'lin.iii. 18. a. 22.) It had a poi-t of the same name atits month. Servius (ad Ac*, ix. 679) correctlyplaces it between Altinurn and Concordia. Thename is not found in the Itineraries, but l'aulusDiaoonu* mentions the ll jinns Liquentiae Hurninis *'on tlic read from Forum .lulii towards Patavtmn.(1'. L>iac. /list. Iamij. v. 39; Anon. liAvenn. iv.36.) [K.H.B.] LI'BIA. [Edbta.] I.IK1MIIUS (Aiuifiiofs), a town in the north ofGermany, between Murionis and Lcnplmna, about10 miles to the north of Hamburgh. Its exact site,however, is unknown, (Ptol. ii. 11. § 27-) (L, S.] I.WIS (Avion: Garitjlumo'), one of the prin­cipal rivers of central Italy, flowing into the Tyr­rhenian Sea a little below Minturnae. It had itssource in the central Apennines, only a few milesfrom the Lacua Fuiinus, of which it lias been some­times, but erroneously, regarded as a subterraneanoutlet. It flows at first in a SK. direction througha long troughlike valley, parallel to the generaldirection of the Apennines, until it reaches the cityof Sora, where it turns abruptly to the SW., andpursues that course until after its junction with theTrerua or Sacco, close to the site of Kregellae ; fromthence it again makes a great bend to the SE., butultimately resumes its SW. direction before itenters the tea near Miulurnae. Both Strabo andPliny tell as that it was originally called Clania, a name which appears to have been common to tItalian rivers [Clanis]: the former writerneously assigns its sources to the country of theVestini; an opinion which is adopted also by Loxa-"..(Strab. v. p. 233; Luian. ii. 425.) The' Liris unoticed by several of the Roman pueta, as a verygentle and tranquil stream (Hor. Cam. i.31.8:Sil. Ital. iv. 348),—a character which it welldeserves in the lower part of its course, where it isdescribed by a modern traveller as "a wide ai*Jnoble river, winding under the shadow of poplar*through a lovely vale, and then gliding gentlytowards the sea." (Eustace's Clatncal Tour, voL 6-p. 320.) But nearer its source it is a dear andrapid mountain river, and at the village of I tola,about four miles below Sora. and just after its junc­tion with the Fibrenus, it forms a cascade of above90 feet in height, one of the most remarkable wales-tails in Italy. (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. L p. 93.) The Liris, which is still called Liri in the upperpart of its course, though better known by the nameof Garigluino, which it assumes when it becomes- amore considerable stream, has a course altogether cfabove 60 geographical miles: its most considerabletributary is the Trerus or Sacco, which joins itabout three miles below Ctprano. A few mike*higher up it receives the waters of the Fihreuns,so celebrated from Cicero's description (de J*g. U.3);which is, however, but a small stream, though re­markable for the clearness and beauty of its waters.[Fibjiknus.] The Meltis (Mel/a), which joins ita few miles below the Sacco. but from the oppositrbank, is equally inconsiderable. At the mouth of the Liris near Mintumae, waaan extensive sacred grove consecrated to Maricm, anymph or local divinity, who was represented by atradition, adopted by Virgil, as mother of I at inns,while others identified her with Circe. (Virg. An.vii. 47; Laetant. Intt. bin. i. 21.) Her groveand temple (Lccus Makicae: Mopfiraf iAirar,Pint. Mar. 39) were not only objects of great vene­ration to the people of the neighbouring town <«"Minturnae, but appear to have enjoyed considrrabiecelebrity with the Romans themselves, (Strab. v.u. 233; Liv. xxvii. 37; Serv. ad Aen. viL 47.)i Immediately adjoining its mouth was an extensiveI marsh, formed probably by the stagnation of theriver itself, and celebrated in history in coruiectioawith the adventures of Marius. [K. H. B.] LISAE (Aiffoi), a town of Crusis or Cmsinf a. isMacedonia, mentioned only by Herodotus (vii. 123).[CitL'Sia.] LIS1NAE, a town of Histiaeotis. in Thessmhr, onthe borders of Athamania. (Liv. xxxii. 14.)LISSA. [Jaccktani.] LISSA (Afo-ffB, Procop. B.G. i. 7; Itm. Amhm.\m island off the coast of Illyricnm. placed by Puny(UL 30) over against laden. I alian, noted for Usmarbles, and an island which obtained a momentaryj importance during the wars of the Venetians, re­presents Lissa. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia and M,mu-ntgro, vol. L p. 78.) [E. B. J.] i LISSUS. [Lkontixi.] ; LISSUS (Ataeot, PtoL iii. 17. § 3), • town <a| the S. coast of Crete, which the anonymous C-»a->i-i describer places between Suia and Calamyde. (Mi-diaim.) The Peutinger Table gives 16 M. P. as theI distance between C'antanuin and l.wx 1 his «_'rrt*acity w:is an episcopal see in the time </ Hier.« !-».j (Comp. Cornel. Cnta Sacra, voL i. p. 235.) 11*, order in which he mentions it with the other biaborcu