OCR Output Chap. IT. WARS OF THE JEWS. 253 posing that Antiochus himself was upon him, he ran a greatI « way before his own army, and cutting his way through the ene­mies troops, he got up to the elephant; yet could not reach himwho seemed to be the king, by reason of his being so high ; butstill he ran his weapon into the belly of the beast, and broughthim down upon himself, and was crushed to death, having doneno moire than attempted great things, and shewed that he pre­ferred glory before life. Now he that governed the elephant wasbut a private man, and had he proved to be Antiochus, Eleazarhad performed nothing more by this bold stroke than that itmight appear he chose to die, when he had the bare hope ofthereby doing a glorious action ; nay, this disappointment pro­ved an omen to his brother [Judas] how the entire battle wouldend. It is true that the Jews fought it out bravely for a longtime, but the king's forces, being superior in number, and havingfortune on their side, obtained the victory. And when a greatmany of his men were slain, Judas took the rest with him, andfled to the toparchy of Gophra. So Antiochus went to Jerusa­lem, and staid there but a few days, for he wanted provisions,and so he went his way. He left indeed a garrison behind him,such as he thought sufficient to keep the place, but drew the restof his army off, to take their winter-quarters in Syria. 6. Now, after the king was departed, Judas was not idle ; foras many of his own nation came to him, so did he gather thosethat had escaped out of the battle together, and gave battle againto Antiochus's generals at a village called Adasa ; and being toohard for his enemies in the battle, and, killed a great numberof them, he was at last himself slain also. Nor was it many daysafterward that his brother John had a plot laid against him byAntiochus's party, and was slain by them. CHAP. II. Concerning the successors of Judas, ivho were Jonathan and Simeon tand John Hyrcanus. $ 1. \T7'HEN Jonathan, who was Judas's brother, succeededv r him, he behaved himself with great circumspectionin other respects, with relation to his own people ; and he corro­borated his authority by preserving his friendship with the Ro­mans. He also made a league with Antiochus the son. Yetwas not all this sufficient for his security ; for the tyrant Trypho,who was guardian to Antiochus's son, laid a plot against him ;and, besides that, endeavoured to take of his friends, and caughtJo.natb.an by a wile, as he was going to Ptolemais to Antiochus,jyith a few persons in his company, and put them in bonds, and then