OCR Output 160 LIVY. of one man, a Spartan, to produce such importantconsequences 1 But we are also told of the Atheniansneglecting a war at home, and passing inconsideratelyinto Sicily. Why do you not rather, since you haveleisure to recount Grecian fables, mention Agathocles,king of Syracuse, who, when Sicily was for a longtime wasted by a Punic war, by passing over into thissame Africa, averted that war to the place from whenceit came? 44. ' But what need is there either of ancient orforeign examples to remind us how useful it is tospread terror among the enemy by a sudden attack;and after removing the danger to a distance from our­selves, to make him abide the hazard? Can there beany greater or more striking instance than is found inHannibal? Between wasting the territories of others,and seeing our own destroyed with fire and sword, thedifference is immense. The assailant has ever morespirit than the defendant; and people's apprehensionsare the greater in the latter case. When you haveentered an enemy's territories, you can then see moredistinctly the advantages and disadvantages which per­tain to the same. Hannibal never entertained a hopethat so many nations in Italy would revolt to him asdid, and which was induced by our misfortune atCannEB. How much less can any firm and steady sup­port in Africa be expected by the Carthaginians, whoare themselves faithless allies, severe and haughtymasters? As to ourselves, even when deserted byconfederates, we stood firm in our own natural strength,the soldiery of Rome. This the Carthaginians do notpossess; besides, their soldiers are procured for hire,—Africans, with Numidians, of all men the most un­steady in their attachments. If no obstruction bethrown in my way at home, you shall shortly hear,that I have made good my descent, and that Africa isin a blaze of war; that Hannibal, in returning thither,comes but to experience a defeat, and that Carthage isbesieged: in fine, expect confidently more frequentand more joyful dispatches from that continent than