OCR Output 22 THE DECLINE AND FALL French philosopher(l) have demonstrated the possibility of such a mirror; and,-since it is possible, I am more disposed to attribute the art to the greatest mathe­maticians of antiquity, than to give the merit of the fiction to the idle fancy of amonk or a sophist. According to another story, Proclus applied sulphur to thedestruction of the Gothic fleet:(2) in a modern imagination, the name of sulphuris instantly connected with the suspicion of gunpowder, and that suspicion is pro­pagated by the secret arts of his disciple Anthemius. (3) A citizen of Tralles inAsia had five sons, who were all distinguished in their, respective professions bymerit and success. Olympius excelled in the knowledge and practice of the Ro­man jurisprudence. Diosconjs and Alexander became learned physicians; butthe skill of the former was exercised for the benefit of his fellow-citizens, whilehis more ambitious brothers acquired wealth and reputation at Rome. The fameof Metrodorus the grammarian, and of Anthemius the mathematician and archi­tect, reached the ears of the emperor Justinian, who invited them to Constantino­ple; and while the one instructed the rising generation in the schools of eloquence,the other filled the capital and provinces with more lasting monuments of hisart. In a trifling dispute, relative to the walls or windows of their contiguoushpuses, he had been vanquished by the eloquence of his neighbour Zeno; but theorator was defeated in his turn by the master of mechanics, whose malicious,though harmless stratagems, are darkly represented by the ignorance of Aga-thias. In a lower room, Anthemius arranged several vessels, or cauldrons of wa­ter, each of them covered by the wide bottom of a leathern tube, which rose toa narrow top, and was artificially conveyed among the joists and rafters of theadjacent building. A fire was kindled beneath the cauldron; the steam of theboiling water ascended through the tubes; the house was shaken by the efforts ofimprisoned air, and its trembling inhabitants might wonder that the city was un­conscious of the earthquake, which they had felt. At another time, the friendsof Zeno, as they sat at table, were dazzled by the intolerable light which flashedin their eyes from the reflecting mirrors of Anthemius; they were astonished bythe noise which he produced from a collision of certain minute and sonorous par­ticles; and the orator declared, in tragic style to the senate, that a mere mortalmust yield to the power of an antagonist, who shook the earth with the trident ofNeptune, and imitated the thunder and lightning of-Jove himself. • The geniusof Anthemius and his colleague Isidore the Milesian, was excited and employedby a prince, whose taste for architecture had degenerated into a mischievous andcostly passion. His favourite architects submitted their designs and difficulties toJustinian, and discreetly confessed, how much their laborious meditation weresurpassed by the intuitive knowledge or celestial inspiration of an emperor, whoseviews were always directed to the benefit of his people, the glory of his reign,and the salvation of his soul. (4) The principal church, which was dedicated by the founder of Constantinopleto St. Sophia, or the eternal Wisdom, had been twice destroyed by fire; after theexile of John Chrysostom, and during the Nika of the blue and green factions.No sooner did the tumult subside, than the Christian populace deplored their sa­crilegious rashness: but they •might have rejoiced in the calamity, had they fore­seen the glory of the new temple, which at the end of forty days, was strenuouslyundertaken by the piety of Justinian. (5) The ruins were cleared away, a morespacious plan was described, and, as it required the consent of some proprietors (1) Without anyj>revious knowledge of Tzetzes or Anthemius, the immortal Buffon imagined and exe­cuted a set of burning-glasses, with which he could inflame planks at the distance of two hundred feet. Sup-pleiwnt a 1'Hisr. Naiureile, torn. i. p. 389—483. quarto edition.) What miracles would not his genius haveperformed for the public serviee, with roval expense, and in the strong sun of Constantinople or Syracuse! (2) John Malala (torn. ii. p. 120—124.) relates the fact; but he seems to confound the names or persons ofProclus and Mavitius. (3) Agathias, lib. v. p. 149—152. The merit of Anthemius as an architect, is loudly praised by Frocopius,(de Edit. lih. i. c. 1.) and Faulus Silentiarius. (part i. 134, &c.) (4) SeeProcopius. (de Edifictis, lib. i. c. 1, 2. lib. ii. c. 3.) He relates a coincidence of dreams which sup­poses some fraud in Justinian or his architect. They both saw, in a vision, the same plan for stopping an in­undation at Data. A stone quarry near Jerusalem was revealed to the emperor: (lib. v. c. 6.) an angel wastricked into the perpetual custody of St. Sophia. .(Anonym, de Antiq. CP. lib. iv. p. 70.) (5) Among the ctowd of ancients and moderns, who have celebrated the edifice of St. Sophia, I shall distin­guish and follow,—1. Four original spectators and historians: Procopius, (de Edific. lib. i. c. 1.) Agathias, (lib.v. p. 152, 153.) Paul Sllentiarim, (in a poem of one thousand and twenty-six hexameters, ad calcem Anna:*Cumnem. Alexiad.) and Evagrius. (lib. iv. c. 31.) 2. Two legendary Greeks of a later period: George Codi-■nus, (de Origin. C. P. p?64—74.) and the anonymous writer of Banduri. (Imp. Orient, torn. i. lib. iv. p. 65—80.)3. The great Byzantine antiquarian Ducange. (Comment, ad Paul. Silentiar. p. 525—598. and C. P. Christ,lib. iii. p. 5—78.) 4. Two French travellers—the one. Peter Gyllius (de Topograph. C. P. lib. c. 3, 4.) in thesixteenth; the other, Grelot: (Voyage de C. P. 95—164. Paris, 1680. in 4to.) he has given plans, prospects, andinside views of St. Sophia; and his plans, though on a smaller scale, appear more correct than those of Du-•cange. I have adopted and reduced the measure of Grelot: but as no Christian can now ascend the dome, theheight is borrowed from EvagiUis,compared with Gyllius Greaves,and the Oriental Geographer.