OCR Output 278 ROMAN EMPIRE. They adored the seven gods or angels who directedthe course of the seven planets, and shed their irresis­tible influence on the earth. The attributes of theseven planets, with the twelve signs of the zodiac, andthe twenty-four constellations of the northern andsouthern hemisphere, were represented by images andtalismans; the seven days of the week were dedicatedto their respective deities: the Sabians prayed thriceeach day; and the temple of the moon at Haran wasthe term of their pilgrimage.1 But the flexible geniusof their faith was always ready either to teach or tolearn; in the tradition of the creation, the deluge, andthe patriarchs, they held a singular agreement withtheir Jewish captives; they appealed to the secretbooks of Adam, Seth, and Enoch: and a slight infusionof the gospel has transformed the last remnant of thePolytheists into the Christians of St. John, in the terri-The Ma- tory of Bassora.™ The altars of Babylon weregians. overturned by the Magians; but the injuries ofthe Sabians were revenged by the sword of Alexander;Persia groaned above five hundred years under aforeign yoke; and the purest disciples of Zoroasterescaped from the contagion of idolatry, and breathedwith their adversaries the freedom of the desert."Seven hundred years before the death of Ma-TheJews. Jews were settled in Arabia: and a far greater multitude was expelled from the holy land to his systems. The earliest date of the Chaldean observations is the year 23S4before Christ. After the conquest of Babylon by Alexander, they were commn-nicated at the request of Aristotle, to the astronomer Hipparchus. What a mo­ment in the annals of science! 'Pocock, (Specimen, p. 138—146.) Hottinger, (Hist. Oriental, p. 16*— 203.)Hyde, (de Religione Vet. Persarum, p. 124. 128, &c.) d'Herbelot, (Soti, p. 735,726.) and Sale, (Preliminary Discourse, p. 14, 15.) rather excite than gratify ourcariosity; and the last of these writers confounds Sabianism with the primitivereligion of the Arabs. « D'Anville (('Euphrates et le Tigre, p. 130—147.) will fix the position ofthese ambiguous Christians: Assemannus (Bibliot. Oriental, torn. 4. p. 607—614.)may explain their tenets. But it is a slippery task to ascertain the creed of anignorant people, afraid and ashamed to disclose their secret traditions. • The Magi were fixed in the province of Bahrein, (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet,lorn. 3. p. 114.) and mingled with the old Arabians. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 146—1SO.