OCR Output 2f,f> HANTIKEIA MAX1M1. broad street or way between the two, and a ditchon the outside. At present they arc nowhere morethan six feet in height. The modern town of Man-duria (a flourishing place, with about 6000 inha­bitants) does not occupy the site of the ancient city;the latter having been destroyed by ttie Saracens,the few remaining inhabitant* settled at a placecalled Canal A'uoro, which appellation it retainedtill towards the close of the eighteenth century, when,having grown into a considerable town, it resumed,by royal licen.se, its ancient name of Manduria.(Swinburne, Trarels, vol. i. p. 222; Komanelli, voL i.p. 53; Giustiniani, l>iz. Geogr. vol. v. p. 338.) Pliny mentions the existence at ManUuria of awell or spring of water, which was always full tothe brim, and could not be either increased ordiminished in quantity. This natural curiosity isstill t»h»wn by the inhabitants of Manduria, andhas been described by several recent travellers; itis said that it preserves a constant equality in thelevel of its waters, notwithstanding any additionthat may be made to them or any quantity thatmay be withdrawn,—a statement exactly coincidingwith that of Pliny. (Plin. ii. 103. s. 106; Swin­burne, Trarels, vol. i. p. 223; K. Craven, TraceU,pp. 165—167.) The expression used by that author,who calls the basin or reservoir of the water " lacus,"has given rise to the erroneous notion that thereexisted a lake in the neighbourhood of Manduria,for which there is no foundation in fact [E. H.B.] MANIMI, a tribe of the Lygii, in the north east ofGermany (lac. Germ, 43). They occupied thecountry south of the Burgundiones, and appear to bethe same as the Onianni ('Ouawol) of Ptolemy (ii.11. § 18; Zeu.ss, Die DeutscKen, p. 124). [L.S.] MAXl'TAK (Mafircu), an inland tribe of ArabiaFrlix, situated we»t of the Thanuetae. an 1 south ofthe Sal ape j ii, north of the "inner Frankincense"country (^ ivrhs 1fxvpvo$6pos, Ptol.vi. 7. §23). Theposition of Ptolemy's "Manitae," west of his Kata-nitae, and of Zames Mons, together with the nearresemblance of name, implies their being the samewith the Mazryne of Burclchardt, the most easternof the llarb tribes, situated on the borders of Karytnin the line of country between Medina and Derayth.(K.irwter, Geog. of Arabia, toI. ii. p. 249.) [G. W.] MA'NIUS SINUS (Manor k6\vqi, Scyl. p. 8),that part of the *>ea off the coa^t of I>almatia intowhich (he river Naro discharged itself, and in whichthe Libumian group of islands is situated. Inmodern times it bears no distinctive name. [K. B.J.J MANMA'NA) MavKiava * Map\iava, I'tol. IT.2. § 25), an inland town of Mauritania, upon theposition of which there is a great disagreement be­tween Ptolemy and the author of the Itinerary. Thefir>t place? it lu' to the W. of Oitidlm Novum,iiml the latter 18 M. P. to the K. of that ]>lace. Themodern Miliana, on the slopes of the I^esser Atlas,preserving the ancient name, may be presumed torepresent the old town, both of Ptolemy and theJtir.erary, in which a Christian community wasest ibli-hfd. (Aug lis tin. Kp. cexxxvi.; Morcelli,Africa Christiana, vol. i p. 211.) Shaw {Tra­vels, pp. 62—64) found remains of Itoman archi-tectnre, and a "cippu*" with an inscriptionwhirl, he refers to some of the descendants ofCn. Pompeius (Bartb, Wanderungen, pp. 58,807.) [E. B.J.] MAKLIA'KUS SALTCS. [Idubkda.] MANNABUTUM, in north Gallia, U placed bythe Aulonine kin. on a road which lea-1* from 1 Lngdunam through Trajectnm (Utreent") to Cam»[Carvo]. It is 15 M. P. from Trajwtuin to Maa-naritium.and 16 M. P. from Mannaritium to Carvo.Mannaritium may be Maaren. But other placeshave been suggested. [G. L.] MANKALI (MorooAoi, Ptol. v. 10. § 6), apeople on the coast of Colchis, whose name baa beentraced in the modern MingreOa. [fcL B. J.] MANTALA, a place in Gallia Karbotwrwi*. onthe road from Vienna(I'leane) to Darantasia {M*m-tiers en Tarentaise'). It is the next station afterLemincum [Lemimcum], and 16 M. P. from it.The Antonine Itin. and the Table agree a* tothe position of Mantala. The site of the stationMantala may be, as D'Anville suggests, at a pUreon the I sere, named Gressi, which is command**! byan old building named Montailleu. |"G. L.J MANTIANA LACUS. [Arstma.] MANTINEIA (Mayrtma: Eih. MoKTiF«vt,lUn-tinensis: Palevpoli), one of the moat anrtenx andpowerful towns in Arcadia, situated on tbe bordersof Argolis, S. of Orchomenus, and N. of Tegem. Itsterritory was called Maxttnicx (Morrwurs;). Thecity is mentioned in the Homeric catalogue as Mar-Tivt-n dpartirij, and, according to tradition, it de­rived its name from Mantineus, a son of Lycam.(Horn. //. ii. 607; Pol ii. 56; Paus. riii. 8." J 4.)Mantineia originally consisted of four or five distinctvillages, the inhabitants of which were coHertedinto one city. (Xen. Hell. v. 2. § 6, seq.; Strab. viii.p. 337; Diod. xv. 5.) If Strabo is correct in statin*that this incorporation was brought about by tbtArgives, we may conjecture, with Mr. Grute, that thelatter adopted this proceeding as a means of pmrtd-ing some check upon their powerful neichboun ofTegea. The political constitution of Mantineia ismentioned by Polybius as one of the be*t in anti­quity; and tbe city had acquired so great a repu­tation at an early period, that the Cyrvnaeam. iathe reign of Battas III. (b. a 550-^-5.10), whenweakened by internal seditions, were recommended toapply to the Mantineians, who sent to them I>emonaxto settle their constitution. (PoL vi. 43; H«nJ. iv.161.) Some time before the Persian wars, JUnti-neia, like the other Arcadian towns, had ac know-ledged the Spartan supremacy; and accordingly il»eMantineians fought against the Persians as tUallies of Sparta. Five hundred of their cituenafought at Thermopylae, but their contingent im'idon the field of Piataea immediately after the battle.(Herod. viL 202, ix. 77.) In the PrlopnnnrvaaWar, Mantineia was at first a meml-er of lb* Pefto-ponnesian confederacy; but several caiuea tended toestrange her from the Spartan alliance, Mantineiaand IVgea were, at this time, the two most im^v-taut Arcadian states, and were frequently enragedin hostilities. In b c. 423, they fought a Li«»iyand indecisive battle, which U mentiuned by Thu-cydides (iv. 134). Tegea, being olig*rvhi<-aJlvgoverned, was firmly attached to Sparta. wberr**Mantineia, from her possessing a democrat teal o«-stitution, as well as from her hat ml to True*, wasdisposed to desert Sparta on tlie first favourable op-portunity. In addition to this, the Maiiiuwnaai kitrecently extended their dominion over tbe Parrba-sians and had garrisoned a fortress at Cyj^ela. «*•*the site where Megalopolis wu afterward* t«iX.Well aware that tbe Lacedaemonians wooid srfallow them to retain their recent acquisition*, a* stwas the policy of Sparta to prevent the iacnatsv ofany j-'litical jaiwer in the Pelojionneiua, tha hlauC*­