OCR Output ITALIA. 83 ITALIA. (5) the Aesis (Ermo); (6) the Potentia (Potcnm);(7)the Flusor(CAienji); (8)thcTruentus(7>wi<o);(9) tbe Vomanus (Pomiuio); (10) the Atcraus(Altrno or Pexara); (11) the Sagrns (Sangro);(12) the Trinius (Trtgno); (13) the Tifernus(Biferno); (14) the Frento (Fortore); (15) theOrh.ilus (Cerroro); (16) tlie Aufidus {Ofantd),which his much the longest course of all the riversfilling into the Adriatic Beyond this, not a single stream worthy of noticeflows to the Adriatic; those which have their sourcesin the central Apennines of Lucania all descendingtowards the Tarentine gulf; these are, the Brada-nus (Bradano), the Casuentus (Basiento'), theAciris (Agri), and the Siris (St'nno). The onlyrivers of Bruttium worthy of mention are the C rat his(ireli) and the Neaethus (ATeto). (The minor streams and those noticed in history,but of no geographical importance, are enumeratedir. the descriptions of the several provinces.) The Italian lakes may be considered as readilyarranging themselves into three groups:—1. Thelakes of Northern Italy, which are on a far largerscale than any of the others, are all basins formedby the rivers which descend from the high Alps, andtbe waters of which are arrested just at their exitfrom tbe mountains. Hence they are, as it were,valleys filled with water, and are of elongated form andconsiderable depth; while their superfluous watersare carried off in deep and copious streams, whichbecome some of the principal feeders of the Po.Such are the Lacus Verbanus {Logo Maggiore),farmed by the Ticinus; the Lacus Larius (Logo diOmc), by the Addua; the Lacus Sebinus (LagotflstQ), by the Ollius; and the Lacus Benacus (Lagodi Garda\ by the Mincius. To these Pliny addstae Lacus Eupilis, from which flows the Lamber orLambro, a very trifling sheet of water (Plin. iii. 19.s. 23); while neither he, nor any other ancientwriter, mentions the Logo di Lvgano, situated be­tween the Lake of Como and Logo Maggiore,though it is inferior in magnitude only to the threegreat lakes. It is first mentioned by Gregory ofTours in the 6th century, under the name of Cere-sius Lacus, an appellation probably ancient, thoughnot now found in any earlier author. 2. The lakesof Central Italy are, with few exceptions, of volcanicorigin, and occupy the craters of long extinct vol­canoes. Hence they are mostly of circular or ovalfirm, of no great extent, and, not being f«l byperennial streams, either require no natural outlet,« have their surplus waters carried off by very in-cMisiderable streams. The largest of these vol­canic lakes is the Lacus Vulsinicnsis, or Logo diBnUrxa, in Southern Etruria, a basin of about 30miles in circumference. Of similar character andorigin are, the Lacus Sabatinus {Logo di Brac-cwao) and Lacus Ciminua (Lago di Vico), in thesame district; the Lacus Albanus (Logo d'Albano)and Lacus Neraorensis {Logo di JVemi), in Latium;and the Lake Avemus in Campania. 3. Whollydiffering from the preceding are the two most con­siderable lakes in this portion of Italy, the LacusTrasimenua (Logo di Perugia) and Lacus Fucinus{Logo Facino or Logo di CWorao); both of whichare basins surrounded by hills or mountains, leavingeo natural outlet for their waters, but wholly un­connected with volcanic agency. Tbe mountains of Italy belong almost exclusivelyether to the great chain of the Alps, which bounds itob the K., or to that of the Apennines. The prin­ cipal summits of the latter range have been alreadynoticed under the article Apenninus. The few out­lying or detached summits, which do not properly be­long to the Apennines are :—(1) the Monte Amiataor Monte di Santa Flora, in the heart of Etruria,which rises to a height of 5794 feet above the sea;(2) the Mons Ciminus, a volcanic group of veryinferior elevation ; (3) the Mons Albancs, risingto above 3000 feet; (4) the Moss Vesuvius, inCampania, attaining between 3000 and 4000 feet;(5) the Mons Vultuk, on the opposite side of theApennines, which measures 4433 feet; and (6) theMons G arc an us, an isolated mass, but geologicallyconnected with the Apennines, while all the pre­ceding are of volcanic origin, and therefore geo­logically, as well as geographically, distinct fromthe neighbouring Apennines. To these may be added the two isolated mountainpromontories of the Mons Argentarius (Monte Ar~gentaro) on the coast of Etruria, and Mons Circeius(Monte Circello) on that of Latium,— both of themrising like rocky islands, joined to the mainlandonly by low strips of alluvial soil. IV. Ethnography of Ancient Italy. The inquiry into the origin and affinities of thedifferent races which peopled the Italian peninsulabefore it fell altogether under the dominion of Kome,and the national relations of the different tribes withwhich the rising republic came successively into con­tact, is a problem which has more or less attractedthe attention of scholars ever since the revival ofletters. But it is especially of late years that theimpulse given to comparative philology, combinedwith the spirit of historical criticism, has directedtheir researches to this subject. Yet, after all thathas been written on it, from the time of Niebuhr tothe present day, it must be admitted that it is stillenveloped in great obscurity. The scantiness of themonuments that remain to us of the languages ofthese different nations; the various and contradictorystatements of ancient authors concerning them; andthe uncertainty, even with regard to the most ap­parently authentic of these statements, on whatauthority they were really founded; combine to em­barrass our inquiries, and lead us to mistrust our con­clusions. It will bo impossible, within the limits ofan article like the present, to enter fully into thediscussion of these topics, or examine the argumentsthat have been brought forward by different v.litersupon the subject. All that can be attempted is togive such a summary view of the most probable re­sults, as will assist the student in forming a con­nected idea of the whole subject, and enable him tofollow with advantage the researches of other writers.Many of the particular pints here briefly referred towill be more fully investigated in the several articlesof the different regions and races to which they re­late. Leaving out of view for the present the inhabitantsof Northern Italy, the Gauls, Ligurians, and Veneti,the different nations of the peninsula may be groupedunder five heads:—(1) the Pelasgians; (2) the U>-cans; (3) the Sabellians; (4) the Umbrians; (5) theEtruscans. 1. Pelasgiaks.—All ancient writers concur inascribing a Pelasgic origin to many of the mostancient tribes of Italy, and there seems no reason todoubt tliat a large part of the population of thepeninsula was really of Pelp-sgic race, that is to say,that it belonged to the same great nation or family o 2