OCR Output «94 NOTES ON THE square a pure and immaculate order. And shortly after he adds,"that the gods who are the authors to all things of stable dispo­sition, of pure and uncontaminated order, and of unincliningpower, are very properly manifested as from an image by a qua­drangular figure." As it is the province therefore of Mercuryto unfold and fill all things with truth, and truth is the fame withsure simplicity; and as stability osejfcnct is derived from truth, wemay easily perceive the propriety of consecrating a square figureto Mercury. As Hercules too, according to his mundane distri­bution as a god, seems to be the fame with the Sun, according tothe Orphic theology, and Mercury, Venus and Apollo arc deitiesof the fame order, and profoundly united to each other, we can­not wonder that the statues of Hercules should resemble those ofMercury. Page 165. Avcrrunci.~\ These gods were worshipped as tbtaverters of evil, as their name implies. Page 166. Cerei Prq/lajia.'] That is, Ceres to whom empirehtkrtgs. Pdgc i(58. Sacred dragons.] A drag on, as we have before ob­served, is a symbtd of the partial life of the soul; and health is sym­metry, and asulssienee according to nature. But the soul, while (heis separated from the divinities, or in other words leads a partiallife, lives in a manner contrary to her nature, and is diseased. Sheicquires therefore the assistance of Æsculapius, or the god ofhealth, that (he may be restored to her true life. And hence thepropriety of consecrating dragons to Æsculapius. But a dragonOr y be considered as the symbol of partial life of every kind, andconsequently of that mortal life which is participated by thebody, and which on the dissolution of the corporeal frame returnsto the whole from whence it was derived. This life therefore fromits partial nature requires the assistance of Æsculapius, and thisfrom its intimate connection with body in a most eminent degree jso that by consecrating a dragon to Æsculapius, the ancients im-that this divinity is the physician both of fouls and bodies.8 Page