OCR Output 258 MANDUBIL MANDUBIL on the north side of Alesia, and in the narrowervalley at the east end, is the railroad from Paris toJfijon. The nearest railway station to Alesia is LesJ^ntmes. The summit of Alesia is not quite flat; but theirregularities are inconsiderable. The sides of thehill beneath the plateau are steep and rocky; andthe upper part of the ascent to the summit is noteasy. Below the plateau, and below this sleep ascent,there is a narrow level piece of ground, which ap­pears to have been widened a little by the labour ofman; and below this level part there is another de­scent, which in some parts is steep. The fine plain(planities) at the western foot of Alesia, which Caesardescribes, is seen well from the western end of thelevel summit- This is the part which Caesar (c. 84)rails the "Arx Alesiae." The surface of the plateaurises a little towards the western extremity, and thenfalls away abruptly, terminating in a rocky promon­tory, something like the head of a boat. A cross,with a small tree on each side of it, stands at theed<re of the brow, and exactly marks the place fromwhich Vercingetorix looked down on the plain ofAlesia (c. 84). Beneath the Arx Alesiae is thesmall town of Altse. on the western and south-west­ern slnpe of the hill. It occupies a different placefrom the old town of the Mandubii, which was on thesummit level. The hill is a mass of rock. The pla­teau has a thin soil, and the few parts which are notcultivated are covered with a short grass like that onthe Brighton downs. It appears that the town of theManduhii occupied all the large plateau, the lengthof which is shown by the scale, though we must as­sume that it was not all built on. The Ant, as al­ready explained, was at the west end, commanding ftview of the plain. The city wall seems to have beencarried all round the margin of the plateau. Caesarsays (B. G. vii. 69): " under the wall, that part ofthe hill which looked towards the east, all this spacethe forces of the Galli had filled, and they hadfanned in their front a ditch and a wall of stones(maceria) six feet high." This is the place markedA. in the plan, the only part of the hill of Alexiawhich is connected with the neighbouring heights. Itis a small neck of land which separates the valleysof the Loz*. and the I^ozerain. This is the partwhen; the plateau of Alesia is m st accessible, whichVercingetorix first occupied when he retired to Ale­sia, and where he constructed the wall of loose stones(maceria). There are plenty of stones on the spotto construct another such wall, if it were wanted. At the eastern end of the plateau, just under thesummit there is a source of water, which is nowcovered over with a small building. The water isnow carried in pi[>es round the lull, to supply theh'wpital of Alise, which is (F.) on the west aide ofthe hill on the slope Water is got at Alise by dig-ping well* in the small level below the plateau; andas the Galli held this part of the mountain duringthe blockade, they may have got water from wells,as they no doubt did from the spring on the plateau. Caesar's lines were formed all round the hill ofA)e*ia, and they crossed the neck (A.) which con­nects this hill with another hill (B.) on the south­east side. The "castra" of Caesar (cc 69, 80)were on B. C. D. E., on all the heights around Ale­sia. These hills have a sleep side turned to Alesia,and flat tops. They are so near to Alesia that Cae­sar could not be safe against an attack from the out­side, unless he occupied them. The valleys betweenAlusia and B- C. D. are narrow. On the north and north-west side the valley is wider. There if a goodsource of water on the hill B. The hill of Alesia is well defined on the onrhand the south by the valleys of the two stnasmswhich Caesar mentions (B. G. vii. 69), and oa thewest side by the plain in which these riven meet.Caesar estimates the width of this plain from n-^thto south at three Roman miles; and it is thai widthat least even in the part which is only a little dis­tance from the foot of the hill. It extends muchfurther in a N\V. direction on the road to Sftmlbnrd.This plain is a perfect level, covered in summer withfine wheat. As we go from the foot of the hill ofAlesia to />* Laumts, the Arx Alesiae ia a con­spicuous object Caesar made two lines of circumvallatioo roundAlesia. The circuit of the inner lines was elevenKnman miles ; and we may infer from his wordsthat this circumvallation was entirely in the plaiaand the valleys, except that it must have pawedover the small elevation or neck of land between A.and B. In making the outer lines, which werefourteen Roman miles in circuit, he followed thelevel as far as the ground allowed (c 74); fmmwhich we conclude that some parts of the outer linewere on the high grounds opp-*ite to the hill < fAlesia; and the form of the surface show* that thismust have been so. The upper part of the billwest of Crtfftigny, part of which bill appear* in thenorth-west angle of the plan, was crossed by thelines; and the camp of Reginus and Kebilus (c. 83)was on the slope of this hill which fa<** AU->ia-One of the ditches (fossae) of the interior lines wasfilled with water from the river (c. 72). The use*of eleven and fourteen miles in circuit are no ex*nggeration. No less circuit would enclose the hilland give the Romans the necessary space. Theboldness of the undertaking may be easily conceivedby the aid of numbers; but the sight of the workthat was to be done before Vercingetorix and h:*troops, to the number of 80.000 men, conM be «hutin, can alone make us fully comprehend and adminsthe daring genius of the Roman proconsul. There was a cavalry fight in the great plainbefore Caesar had completed his works. The Galliwere driven back from the plain to their camp underthe east end of the bill, and took refuge wtthmAlesia. After this defeat Vercingetorix sent hiscavalry away, and made preparation for holding outtill the Gallic confederates should come to his aid.(B.G. 70, 71.) When the forces of the confederate*(vii. 75) came to raise the blockade of Alesia, theyposted themselves on the hills where the nameMiwxy at •{tears; and in the battle which is de­scribed in vii. 79, the Gallic cavalry filled the pUiaon the west side of the hill of Alesia, while theinfantry remained on the heights about Jfttasy. ThaGallic horse were beaten back to their camp(c. PO);but on the following night they renewed the attackon that part of the lines which crossed the {tain.This atta> k also failed The next night the »i-.IIicconfederates sent 60.000 men under Vergasillaono*to the north, to the back of the bill (EX on tWsouth slope of which Reginus and Urbilus had theircamp. Their orders were to fall on the Reman* atmidday. The Galli got to the back of the hill atdaybreak, and waited till near noon, when theybegan their attack on the camp. At tha same rim*the cavalry of the confederates came againat Uwlines in the plain; and Veningetorix de*ond«-dfrom the heights of Alesia to attack the line* fnaa