OCR Output CHAP. 5. ROMAN HISTORY. .21 home the children to his cot, to be nursed by his wifeLaurentia. Some contend that this same Laurentia, wascalled Lupa among the shepherds, on account of hereasy virtue, and that the miraculous story took its risefrom that circumstance. The children being thus born, and thus brought up,did not loiter about the folds, nor tend the flocks, evenwhen they were yet young, but roamed and hunted inthe forests; by which exercise, having acquired strength,and .courage, they not only encountered witd beasts, butattacked bands of robbers, loaded with plunder; anddivided the spoil amongst the shepherds. Their corpsbecoming more numerous every day, they now beganto keep festivals, and have rural sports together. I CHAP. V. AmuIiiM killed. T is asserted, that at this very time, the festival ofthe Lupercalia* was solemnized on mount Palatine,which, from Pallantium, a city of Arcadia, was firstcalled Pallantiuro, and afterwards Palatium.—That thereEvander, descended of these Arcadians, who,for manyages before, had been in possession of that country, hadinstituted that festival brought with him from Arcadia.It was to be solemnized by young men, who were to runnaked, making every attitude expressive of mirth andhumour, in honour of Pan Lyceus-f; to whom after­wards the Romans gave the name of Innus.—That therobbers having learned when this festival was to be so­lemnized, and irritated for the loss of their plunder, layin wait for them while engaged in these sports. Romu­lus by the gallantry of his defence, got clear off, but Re­mus fell into their hands, and was delivered to km**Amulius, loaded with accusations attested bv themselves. * Two goats and a dog were sacrificed; and the foreheads oftwo young men of quality were touched with the bloody knife,whitst others wiped oft'the blood with woot dipt in mitk. Thegoats skins were cut in thongs, with which the young men struckall they met, particularly young married women, who believedthat such strokes contributed to easy conception and delivery. f A sirname given to Pan, because it was thought he "protectedthe flocks from the wolvw.