OCR Output an. 1532.J 75 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS more plague he would compel the Egyptiansto let the Hebrews go, he commanded Mosesto tell the people, that they should have asacrifice ready; and that they should preparethemselves on the tenth day of the monthXanthicus, against the fourteenth; whichmonth is called by the Egyptians Pharmuthi,and Nisan by the Hebrews; but the Mace­donians call it Xanthicus. And that he shouldcarry away the Hebrews, with all they had.Accordingly Moses having got the Hebrewsready for their departure, and having gather­ed the people into tribes, kept them togetherin one place. But when the fourteenth daywas come, and all were ready to depart, theyoffered sacrifice, and purified their houseswith the blood; using bunches of hyssop forthat purpose: and when they had supped,they burnt the remainder of the flesh as justready to depart. Whence it is, that we dostill offer this sacrifice in like manner, andcall this festival Pasch; which signifies thefeast of the Passover; because on that dayGod passed us over, and sent the plague uponthe Egyptians. For the destruction of thefirst-born came upon the Egyptians that night;so that many of the Egyptians who lived nearthe king's palace, persuaded Pharaoh to letthe Hebrews go. Accordingly he called forMoses, and bid them be gone; as supposingthat if once the Hebrews were gone out ofthe country, Egypt should be freed from itsmiseries. They also honoured the Hebrewswith gifts,* some in order to get them to de­part quickly, and others on account of theirneighbourhood, and the friendship they hadwith them. CHAP. XV. OF THE DEPARTURE OF THE HF.BREWS FROM EGYPT, UNDERTHE COSDUCT OF MOSES. HUS the Hebrews went out of Egypt,while the Egyptians wept, and repented T * These large presents made to the Israelites, of vesselsof silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, were, as Jose-phustruly calls them, gifts, really given them; not lentthem, as our English falsely renders them. They werespoils required, not borrowed of them ; Gen. xv. 14. Exod.iii. 29. xi. 2. Ps. cv. 37. as the same version falsely ren­ders the Hebrew word here used. Exod. xii. 35, 36.God had ordered the Jews to demand these as their payand reward, during their long and bitter slavery in Egypt;as atonements for the lives of the Egyptians; and as thecondition of the Jews' departure, and the Egyptian deliver­ance from these terrible judgments; which had they notnow ceased, they had soon been all dead men, as they voL. I.—No. 7. they had treated them so hardly. Now theytook their journey by Letopolis, a place atthat time deserted, but where Babylon wasbuilt afterward, when Cambyses ravagedEgypt. But as they went away hastily, onthe third day they came to a place calledBaalzephou, on the Red Sea; and when theyhad no food out of the land, because it was adesert, they eat of loaves kneaded of flour,only warmed by a gentle heat; and this foodthey made use of thirty days: for what theybrought with them out of Egypt, would notsuffice them any longer time; and this onlywhile they dispensed it to each person to useso much only as would serve for necessity,but not for satiety. Whence it is, that inmemory of the want we were then in, wekeep a feast for eight days, which is calledthe feast of Unleavened-bread. Now theentire multitude of those that went out, in­cluding the women and children, was noteasy to be numbered; but those that were ofan age fit for war, were six hundred thousand. They left Egypt in the month of Xanthicus,on the fifteenth day of the lunar month: fourhundred and thirty years after our forefatherAbraham came into Canaan. But two hun­dred and fifteen yearst only after Jacob re­moved into Egypt; it was the eightieth yearof the age of Moses, and of that of Aaronthree more. They also carried out the bonesof Joseph with them, as he charged his sonsto do. The Egyptians, however, soon repentedthat the Hebrews were gone;J and the kingalso was greatly concerned that this had beenprocured by the magical arts of Moses; sothey resolved to go after them. Accordinglythey took their weapons, and other warlikefurniture, and pursued after them, in order tobring them back, if once they overtook them;because they would have no pretence to pray themselves confess, xii. 23. Nor was there any sense inborrowing or lending, when the Israelites were finally de­parting out of the land. t Why our Mazorete copy so groundlessly abridges thisaccount in Exod. xii. 40. as to ascribe four hundred andthirty years to the sole peregrination of the Israelites inEgypt: when it is clear, even by that Mazorete chrono­logy elsewhere; as well as from the express text itself inthe Samaritan, Septuagint, and Josephus, that they so­journed in Egypt but half that time, and that by conse­quence the other half of their peregrination was in theland of Canaan, before they came into Egypt, is hard to say. | Exod. xiv. 5. u