OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL 142 Election andcharacter ofMacr.nui. A.D. 217-March U. Discontentos the senate, having rivalled his valour and magnanimity: but in no one action ofhis life did Caracalla express the faintest resemblance of the Mace­donian hero, except in the murder of a great number of his own andof hi3 father's friends *\ After the extinction of the house of Severus, the Roman worldremained three days without a master. The choice ot" the army (forthe authority of a distant and feeble senate was little regarded) hungin anxious suspense; as no candidate presented himself whose distin­guished birth and merit could engage their attachment and unitetheir suffrages. The decisive weight of the Prætorian guards ele­vated the hopes of their prefects, and these powerful ministers be*gan to assert their legal claim to fill, the vacancy of the Imperialthrone. Adventus, however, the senior praefect, conscious of hisage and infirmities, of his small reputation, and his smaller abili­ties, resigned the dangerous honour to the crafty ambition of hisColleague Macrinus, whose well dissembled grief removed all sus­picion of his being accessary to his master's death *'. The troopsneither loved nor esteemed his character. They cast their eyesaround in search of a competitor, and at last yielded with reluctanceto his promises of unbounded liberality and indulgence. A shorttime after his accession, he conferred on his son Diadumenianus, atthe age of only ten years, the Imperial title and the popular nameof Antoninus. The beautiful figure of the youth, assisted by anadditional donative, for which the ceremony furnished a pretext,might attract, it was hoped, the favour of the army, and securethe doubtful throne of Macrinus. The authority of the new sovereign had been ratified by the cheer­ful submission of the senate and provinces. They exulted in theirunexpected deliverance from a hated tyrant, and it seemed of littleconsequence to weigh the virtues of the successor of Caracalla. Butas soon as the first transports of joy and surprise had subsided, theybegan to scrutinize the merits of Macrinus with a critical severity, 2 and