OCR Output 9F THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189 strength, as well as fervour, that he frequently passed chap. ,two days and as many nights, without tasting any XXXVI-food. The measure of his sleep was not less rigor­ous: after the repose of a single hour, the body wasawakened by the soul, and, to the astonishment ofhis chamberlains, Justinian walked or studied till themorning light. Such restless application prolongedhis time for the acquisition of knowledge * and thedespatch of business: and he might seriously deservethe reproach of confounding, by minute and pre­posterous diligence, the general order of his admini­stration. The emperor professed himself a musicianand architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyer andtheologian; and if he failed in the enterprise of re­conciling the Christian sects, the review of the Ro­man jurisprudence is a noble monument of his spiritand industry. In the government of the empire,he was less wise or less successful: the age was un­fortunate; the people was oppressed and discontented;Theodora abused her power; a succession of badministers disgraced his judgment; and Justinian wasneither beloved in his life, nor regretted at his death.The love of fame was deeply implanted in his breast,but he condescended to the poor ambition of titles,honours, and contemporary praise; and while he la­boured to fix the admiration, ,he forfeited the esteemand affection of the Romans. The design of theAfrican and Italian wars was boldly conceived andexecuted: and his penetration discovered the talentsof Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace.But the name of the emperor is eclipsed by the namesof his victorious generals; and Belisarius still lives,to upbraid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign.The partial favour of mankind applauds the genius of • The studies and rcience of Justinian are attested by the confession (Anecdot.c. 8. IS), still more than by the praises (Gothic . 1. iii. c. 31. dc Edific. 1. i. Proem,c. 7) of Procopius. Consult the copious index of Alemannus, and read the lifeof Justinian by Ludewig (p. 135—142). r