OCR Output 12 THE DECLINE AND FALL were incessantly disturbed by the clamorous discontent of the greens; till thetwenty-second race, the emperor maintained his silent gravity; at length yieldingto his impatience, he condescended to hold, in abrupt sentences, and by the voiceof a crier, the most singular dialogue(l) that ever passed between a prince andhis subjects. Their first complaints were respectful and modest; they accused thesubordinate ministers of oppression, and proclaimed their wishes for the long lifeand victory of the emperor. " Be patient and attentive, ye insolent railers!" ex­claimed Justinian, "be mute, ye Jews, Samaritans, and Manich<cans !" Thegreens still attempted to awaken his compassion. " We are poor, we are inno­cent, we are injured, we dare not pass through the streets: a general persecutionis exercised against our name and colour. Let us die, 0 emperor! but let us dieby your command, and for your service!" But the repetition of partial and pas­sionate invectives degraded, in their eyes, the majesty of the purple; they re­nounced allegiance to the prince who refused justice to his people; lamented thatthe father of Justinian had been born; and branded his son with the opprobriousnames of a homicide, an ass, and a perjured tyrant. " Do you despise your lives?"cried the indignant monarch: the blues rose with fury from their seats; their hos­tile clamours thundered in the hippodrome; and their adversaries, deserting theunequal contest, spread terror and despair through the streets of Constantinople.At this dangerous moment, seven notorious assassins of both factions, who hadbeen condemned by the prefect, were carried round the city, and afterwardtransported to the place of execution in the suburb of Pera. Four were imme­diately beheaded; a fifth was hanged: but when the same punishment was in­flicted on the remaining two, the rope broke, they fell alive to the ground, the po­pulace applauded their escape, and the monks of St. Conon, issuing from theneighbouring convent, conveyed them in a boat to the sanctuary of the church. (2)As one of these criminals was of the blue, and the other of the green livery, thetwo factions were equally provoked by the cruelty of their oppressor, or the in­gratitude of their patron; and a short truce was concluded till they had deliveredtheir prisoners, and satisfied their revenge. The palace of the Refect, who with­stood the seditious torrent, was instantly burnt, his officers and guards were mas­sacred, the prisons were forced open, and freedom was restored to those who couldonly use it for the public destruction. A military force, which had been des­patched to the aid of the civil magistrate, was fiercely encountered by an armedmultitude, whose numbers and boldness continually increased; and the Heruli,the wildest barbarians in the service of the empire, overturned the priests andtheir relics, which from a pious motive, had been rashly interposed to separatethe bloody conflict. The tumult was exasperated by this sacrilege, the peoplefought with enthusiasm in the cause of God; the women from the roofs and win­dows showered stones on the heads of the soldiers, who darted firebrands againstthe houses; and the various flames which had been kindled by the hands ot citi­zens and strangers, spread without control over the face of the city. The con­flagration involved the cathedral of St. Sophia, the baths of Zeuxippus, a part ofthe palace from the first entrance to the altar of Mars", and the long portico fromthe palace to the forum of Constantine; a large hospital, with the sick patients,was consumed; many churches and stately edifices were destroyed, and an im­mense treasure of gold and silver was either melted or lost. From such scenesof horror and distress, the wise and wealthy citizens escaped over the Bosphorusto the Asiatic side; and, during five days, Constantinople was abandoned to thefactions, whose watchword, Nika, vanquish! has given a name to this memorablesedition. (3) As long as the factions were divided, the triumphant blues and despondinggreens, appeared to behold with the same indifference the disorders of the state-.They agreed to censure the corrupt management of justice and the finance; andthe two responsible ministers, the artful Tribonian, and the rapacious John of Cap-padocia, were loudly arraigned as the authors of the public misery. The peace­ful murmurs cf the people would have been disregarded; they were heard withrespect when the city was in flames; the questor, and the prefect, were instantlyremoved, and their offices were filled by two senators of blameless integrity. Af- (1) This dialogue, which Theophancs has preserved, exhibits the popular language, as well as the mannersof Constantinople, in the seventh century. Their Greek is mingled with many strange and barbarous wordsfor which Ducange cannot always find a meaning or etymology. (2) See this church and monastery in Ducange C. P. Christians, lib. iv. p. 182. (5) The history of the Nika sedition is extracted from Marcellinus (in Chron.,) Procopius (Persic, lib. i. c.26.0 John Malala (torn. ii. p. 213. e. us.,) Chron. Paschal, (p. 336—340.,) Theophancs (Chronograph, p. 154 —1J8.,) and ZonoMs (lib. xir. p. 61—63.)