OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 225 titude was too angry with them to be dissuaded, and all of themwent immediately to the house in which Jonathan and his col­leagues abode. However, when I perceived that their ragecould not be restrained, I got on horseback, and ordered the mul­titude to follow me to the village Sogane, which was twenty fur­longs off Gabara ; and by using this stratagem, I so managed my­self, as not to appear to begin a civil war amongst them. 52. But when 1 was come near Sogane, I caused the multitudeto make an halt, and exhorted them not to be so easily provokedto anger, and to the inflicting such punishments as could not beafterwards recalled : I also gave order, that an hundred men,who were already in years, and were principal men among theui,should get themselves ready to go to the city Jerusalem, andshould make a complaint before the people, of such as raised se­ditions in the country. And I said to them, that " in case they" be moved with what you say, you shall desire the community«' to write to me, and to enjoin me to continue in Galilee, and to" order Jonathan and his colleagues to depart out of it." WhenI had suggested these instructions to them, and while they weregetting themselves ready as fast as they could, I sent them onthis errand the third day after they had been assembled : I alsosent five hundred armed men with them [as a guard]. I thenwrote to my friends in Samaria, to take care that they mightsafely pass through the country : for Samaria was already underthe Romans, and it was absolutely necessary for those that goquickly [to Jerusalem], to pass through that country ; for in thatroad you may, in three days time, go from Galilee to Jerusa­lem. I also went myself, and conducted the old men as far asthe bounds of Galilee, and set guards in the roads, that it mightnot be easily known by any one that these men were gone. Andwhen I had thus done, I went and abode at Japha. 53. Now Jonathan and his colleagues- having failed of accom­plishing what they would have done against me, they sent Johnback' to Gischala, but went themselves to the city Tiberias, expect­ing it would submit itself to them ; and this was founded on a letterwhich Jesus, their then governor, had written them, promising,that if they came, the multitude would receive them, and chooseto be under their government ; so they went their ways withthis expectation. But Silas, who, as I said, had been left curatorof Tiberias by me, informed me of this, and desired me to makehaste thither. Accordingly, I complied with his advice imme­diately, and came thither ; but found myself in danger of my life,from the following occasion : Jonathan and his colleagues hadbeen at Tiberias, and had persuaded a great many of such as hada quarrel with me to desert me ; but when they heard of my VOL, III. F f coming