OCR Output DISCOURSE II. For modes of government let fools contest,That which is best administered is best. That studied obscurity, in which he hath veiled himself,will not let us discover, whether on instant and critical oc­casions he ever suffered himself to be actuated by any of thedarker passions, or too fondly indulged those of a brightercast. But it cannot be found from what he writes, that hehath praised any man from fondness, or even from gratitude,degraded any one through envy, or reproached any one withmalice and ill-nature. The same will hold in regard toStates or whole communities. Doth he ever censure theAthenians in the wrong place ? or commend the Lacedaemo­nians but in the right ? Were his name expunged from thebeginning of the whole work, and the conclusions of theyears, could any one guess to what State he had ever be­longed, whether he was a Lacedaemonian, a Corinthian, anAthenian, or a Sicilian, except from the purity of the Atticdialect in which he writes ? In that dialect he was cradled;he could not possibly swerve from it; without it he couldneither write nor speak. Could he have thought, that thismight yield suspicion of an impassioned or prejudiced spirit,he might perhaps have endeavoured to write in the Doric orIonic idiom. Independent, further, he certainly must have been, sincehe had no great man to cajole, and no prince to dread orflatter. The powers of Greece or the monarch of Persiacould affect him no more, than the Germanic body or thegrand monarch of France the quiet and contented refugee,who lives on the sunny side of a hill in Switzerland. Thecircumjacent powers had no more, perhaps not so much, in­fluence at Scaptesyle, than the neighbouring kingdoms canhave at Lausanne. The States of Greece had garrisons onthe coasts, but were not masters of Thrace. Thrace was fullof little communities and petty principalities. Thucydideshad credit enough amongst them to insure his personal safe­ty and guard his retirement. He could disoblige those about