OCR Output B. III. 209 YEAR IV. BETORE CHRIST 428. did also the Imbrians and Lemnians and some few other oftheir allies. The Mityleneans once indeed made a general sally withall their people against the station of the Athenians. Here­upon a battle ensued, after which the Mityleneans, thoughby no means worsted, yet durst not continue all night in thefield, but diffident of their own strength retreated behindtheir walls. After this they kept themselves quiet, unwill­ing to run any more hazards, till they had got some addi­tional strength from Peloponnesus, and were in other re­spects better provided. By this time Meleas a Lacedaemo­nian and Hermaeondas a Theban are arrived among them,who had been dispatched on some business before the re­volt, and unable to compass the return before the Athenianfleet came up, had now in a trireme got in undiscoveredsince the battle. It was the advice of these to dispatch ano­ther trireme and embassy in company with them, which isaccordingly done. But the Athenians, as the Mityleneansremained in so quiet a posture, became more full of spiritsthan before, and sent summons of aid to their confederates,who came in with more than ordinary alacrity, as they sawsuch an appearance of weakness on the side of the Lesbians.Having now formed a station on the south side of the city,they fortified by a wall two camps, which invested the placeon both sides, whilst their shipping was so stationed as toshut up both the harbours. By this means the communica­tion by sea was quite cut off from the Mityleneans. Ofthe land indeed the Mityleneans and other Lesbians, whohad now flocked to their aid, were for the most part masters.The quantity which the Athenians had occupied by theircamps was but inconsiderable, as the station of their shippingand their market was held chiefly at Malea: And in thisposture stood the war against Mitylene. About the same time this summer, the Athenians sendout thirty sail of ships against Peloponnesus, under thecommand of Asopius the son of Phormio, in pursuance of