OCR Output 262 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. Resistanceof the go­vernment. Riots. Position ofSulla. aristocracy and the narrow-minded bourgeoisie would dis­play the same stupid jealousy after the subduing of theinsurrection as they had displayed before its outbreak; thatthe great majority of all parties would secretly or evenopenly characterize the partial concessions made at themoment of the most formidable danger as unseasonablecompliances, and would passionately resist every attemptto extend them. The example of Drusus had shown whatcame of undertaking to carry conservative reforms solelyin reliance on a senatorial majority; it was a course quiteintelligible, that his friend who shared his views shouldattempt to carry out kindred designs in opposition to thatmajority and under the forms of demagogism. Rufus accord­ingly gave himself no trouble to gain the senate over to hisviews by the bait of the jury courts. He found a bettersupport in the freedmen and above all in the armed retinue—consisting, according to the report of his opponents, of3000 hired men and an "opposition-senate" of 600 youngmen from the better class—with which he appeared in thestreets and in the Forum. His proposals accordingly met with the most decidedresistance from the majority of the senate, which first, togain time, induced the consuls Lucius Cornelius Sulla andQuintus Pompeius Rufus, both declared opponents of dema­gogism, to enjoin extraordinary religious observances duringwhich the popular assemblies were suspended. Sulpiciusreplied by a violent tumult, in which among other victimsthe young Quintus Pompeius, son of the one and son-in-lawof the other consul, met his death and the lives of both con­suls themselves were seriously threatened—Sulla is saideven to have escaped only by Marius opening to him hishouse. They were obliged to yield; Sulla agreed to counter­mand the announced solemnities, and the Sulpician proposalsnow passed without further difficulty. But this was farfrom determining their fate. Though the aristocracy in thecapital might own its defeat, there was now-—for the firsttime since the commencement of the revolution—yet anotherpower in Italy which could not be overlooked, viz. the twostrong and victorious armies of the proconsul Strabo andthe consul Sulla. Strabo's political position might be am­biguous, but Sulla, although he had given way to openviolence for the moment, was on the best terms with themajority of the senate; and not only so., but he had, itnme­