OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOR X. 223 47. The favor of the consul saved from a trial, be­fore the people, Postumius; who, on a prosecutionbeing commenced against him by Marcus Scantius,plebeian tribune, evaded, as was said, the jurisdictionof the people, by procuring the commission of lieute­nant-general, so that he could only be threatened withit. The year having now elapsed, new plebeian tri­bunes had come into office ; and even these, in conse­quence of some irregularity in their appointments,had, within five days after, others substituted in theirroom. The lustrum was closed this year by the cen­sors Publius Cornelius Arvina and Caius Marcius Ru-tilus. The number of citizens rated was two hundredand sixty-two thousand three hundred and twenty-two.These were the twenty-sixth pair of censors since thefirst institution of that office ; and this the nineteenthlustrum. In this year persons who had been presentedwith crowns, in consideration of meritorious behaviorin war, first began to wear them at the exhibition ofthe Roman games. At the same time was first intro­duced from Greece the practice of bestowing palms onthe victors in the games. In the same year the curuleediles, who exhibited those games, completed thepaving of the road from the temple of Mars to Bovillae,out of fines levied on the farmers of the public pas­tures. Lucius Papirius presided at the consular elec­tion, and returned consuls Quintus Fabius Gurges,son of Maximus, and Decius Junius Brutus Scacva.Papirius himself was made pretor. The many pros­perous events of this year were scarcely sufficient toaflford consolation for one calamity, a pestilence, whichafflicted both the city and country, and caused a pro­digious mortality. To discover what end, or what re­medy was appointed by the gods for that calamity,the books were consulted, and there it was found thatjEsculapius must be brought to Rome from Epidaurus.However, as the consuls had full employment in thewars, no farther steps were taken in that business dur­ing this year, except the performing a supplication tojEsculapius of one day's continuance.