OCR Output 382 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Cyrus, king of Persia, and Darius, king ofMedia, make war. And when he was be­sieged in Babylon, there happened a won­derful and prodigious vision. He set downat supper in a large room, and there were agreat many vessels of silver, such as weremade for royal entertainments; and he hadwith him his concubines, and his friends.Whereupon he commanded that those ves­sels of gold, which Nebuchadnezzar hadtaken out of Jerusalem, and had not madeuse of, but had put them into his own temple,should be brought out of that temple. Healso grew so haughty, as to proceed to usethem in the midst of his cups, drinking outof them, and blaspheming against God. Inthe mean time he saw a hand proceed outof the wall, and writing certain syllables.*At this sight he was disturbed, and calledthe magicians and Chaldeans together, andall that sort of men that were among these harbarians, and were able to interpret sign?and dreams, that they might explain thewriting to him.f But when the magicianssaid they could discover nothing, nor didunderstand it; the king was in great disor­der of mind, and under great trouble at thissurprising accident.J So he caused it to beproclaimed through all the country, andpromised that to him who could explain thewriting, and give the signification thereof, hewould give a golden chain for his neck, andpermission to wear a purple garment, as didthe kings of Chaldea; and would bestowon him the third part of his own dominions.When the proclamation was made, the ma­gicians ran together more earnestly, andwere very ambitious to find out the importof the writing, but still hesitated about itas much as before. Now when the king'sgrandmother|| saw him cast down at thisaccident, she began to encourage him, and after the hand-writing on the wall that Baltasar wasslain, does not so well agree with our copies of Da­niel; which say it was the same night; Daniel v. 30.But then it must be observed, that Theodoret directly Snotes Josephus for the confirmation of our copies of•aniel, and particularly for affirming that he was slainthe same night also. Whose testimony is here set downat large by Dr. Hudson.* Daniel v. 5. t The writing very probably might be in a characterunknown to the Chaldeans, as the old Hebrew, Phoeni­cian, and Samaritan were; or if they were acquaintedwith the character, yet such is the genius of most of theoriental languages, where so little use is made of vowels,and where the pronunciation and sequel of the discoursegenerally determine the signification of the letters, that aman may be a perfect master of a language, and yet notable to read and comprehend a word, when it standsalone, and without any context, as it is in the case ofMene. Tekel. Upharsin. A man, for instance, that un­derstands the Hebrew tongue ever so well, were he tomeet dbr standing alone, would have much ado to readthem, because, according to the manner that we pro­nounce them, the letters will admit of many differentsignifications; and it is much the same in the Chaldeelanguage, wherein the words we are now speaking of werewrote. Calmet's Commentary on Daniel v. 7. B. J The king's words are these,—Whosoever shall readthis writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof, shallbe clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold abouthis neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.Daniel v. 7. From whence it appears, that the kings ofBabylon wore the same ornaments, and, in rewardingtheir favourites, gave the same marks of honour that thekings of Persia and their successors did. For purple, wefind, in several Greek authors, was the ordinary habits ofthe kings of Persia, and of the princes of their court thatwere in the highest posts of honour. The chain or collarof gold was one of the greatest marks of distinction that the Persian kings could bestow upon their subjects; andto be the third ruler of the kingdom, was the same sub­lime office that Darius the Mede put Daniel in, chap. vi.1, 2. when he constituted him one of the presidents overthe hundred and twenty princes that he had made go­vernors over provinces. Xenophon's Cyropadia, lib. viii.Diodorus, lib. xviii. Josephui,s Antiquities, lib. xi. c. 6.Brisson, De Regno Persar. lib. i. B. || This grandmother, or mother of Baltasar, the queendowager of Babylon, (for she is distinguished from hisqueen, Daniel v. 10, 23.) seems to have been the famousNitocris, who fortified Babylon against the Medes andPersians; and in all probability governed it under Bal­tasar, who seems to have been a weak and effeminateprince. Whether Baltasar were the son or grandson ofthe great Nebuchadnezzar, will be best understood bythe following passage out of some observations 1 formerlymade, when I carefully read over Mr. Hutchinson's ex­cellent edition of Xenophon's Ku£* TXtuSem, as follows:"Xenophon, who made his Persian expedition not till onehundred and twenty-eight years after the death of Cyrus,and never seems to have been at Babylon, nor ever namesany king of Babylon; (as perhaps not knowing theirnames; always and only calling each of them tiv Aottupiov,the Assyrian king, in agreement with Ptolemy's Canon ;)took the last king of Babylon to be the son of his prede­cessor, and the same that injured Gobryas and Gadates,page 307, 529. Berosus also, who lived still much later,took Niricassolassar for the sister's husband, and puts inLaborosoarchod, who is not in the Canon. Perhaps wehad better follow the Scripture, and the Canon, as elder,and indeed contemporary records; and say, that Ilvaro-damus or Evil-Merodach was the son, and Niricassolassarthe grandson of Nebuchadnezzar; and that Baltasar orNabonadius was the uncle of Niricassolassar, and the sonof Nebuchadnezzar, by another wife, Nitocris. See Ba-ruch i. 11. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 20. Jer. xxvii. 7. Danielv. 18, 22. And perhaps Laborosoarchod was no morethan a first minister under Baltasar at first; as the queen