OCR Output Chap. 42. ROMAN HISTORY. 463 given time to^he fury with which they were agitated iiithe late action, to subside, and as they had met with littleor no resistance from the Romans, nor even now put tothe necessity of an assault to take the city, entered it next~day, without any signs of violent passion and resentment,by the gate Collina, moving on to the forum, and cast-;ing their eyes on all sides, to the temples of the gods,'and the citadel, where alone they could observe theleast appearance of resistance. Then posting a smallguard, to prevent any sally from the citadel or capitol,when they might be dispersed through the city, theywent about in plundering parties, arid finding the streetsquite empty, and not meeting a single soul, they rushedin bodies into the adjoining houses, whilst others flew tothe most remote, imagining they had never been touch­ed, and consequently full of booty. Struck with terrorat the general 4eso'at'on» tney returned in a body tothe forum, and the adjoining places, fearing they might,when dispersed, fall into some ambuscade. Here find­ing the houses of the Plebeians shut, but the halls of thenobility open, they hesitated more upon entering the lastthan the first, keeping at an awful distance from thosevenerable sages, sitting in the porches of their housesin dress and attitude appearing with an air of greatnessabove human, and in the awful majesty of their looks,and gravity of their deportment, perfectly resemblingthe gods. When they had stood some time gazing asat so many statues, one of these ancients, M. Papiriusis said to have provoked a Gaul, by breaking his headwith a smart blow of his ivory truncheon, for using thefreedom of stroking his beard, which was then permit­ted to grow to a great length. He was the first victim,-and the rest were all killed where they sat. The Gauls,after thi? massacre, gave no quarter; and having cleared'the bouses of their contents, immediately --set them onfire. • CHAP. XLII. Rome set on fire. Melancholy scene. ** • X HE first day, the devastation- among the houses bythe lire, was not so general as might have been expected