OCR Output 62 EGYPTIAN SILVER. mirrors are, however, now preferred. These were first made byPraxiteles, about the time of Pompey the Great. Of late years ithas been thought that they give a truer image of the object whengold is applied to the back of the mirror. 46. OF EGYPTIAN SILVER. The Egyptians also colour their silver that they may beholdtheir god Anubis on their vessels; they do not engrave but painttheir silver. This practice was afterwards applied to triumphalstatues; and it is remarkable that their cost is increased bywhat diminishes their splendour. It is done in this manner.They mix with the silver one-third part of the thinnest Cypriancopper, which is called Coronarium, with a quantity of sulphurequal to the silver. These are fused together in an earthern pot,lined all round with clay; the process is continued until thecovering of the pot opens of itself.6 Silver is also blackened bybeing coated with coagulated egg, but this may be afterwardsrubbed off by vinegar and chalk. Anthony, the triumvir, mixed iron with the denarii; the coin isnow debased by copper. Sometimes the coin is made short of itsproper weight; this ought to be such, that eighty-four denarii aremade out of one pound of metal. The plan of fixing a legalstandard for the coin which was formed by Marius Gratidianuswas so popular among the people, that statues of him were placedin every street. It is, however, remarkable, that this very planshould have become the means of practising fraud; for we findthat a specimen of a base denarius is highly valued, and thatthere are persons who will give several genuine denarii for acounterfeit one. 47, OF IMMODERATE SUMS OF MONEY; WHAT INDIVIDUALSWERE THE MOST WEALTHY. There were no fortunes among the ancients larger than100,000 sesterces; but in our times this sum is so much multi­plied, that we hear of ten times 100,000,7 or even more. This 6 The effect of this process would be to form a sulphuret of silver.7 The sums mentioned in the text are 807/. 5*. Wd. and 10,350/. re­spectively.