OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. death to relieve or approach the victim; and Mebodeslanguished several days before his sentence was pro­nounced, by the inflexible pride and calm ingratitude ofthe son of Kobad. But the people, more especially inthe east, is disposed to forgive, and even to applaud, thecruelty which strikes at the loftiest heads; at the slavesof ambition, whose voluntary choice has exposed themto live in the smiles, and to perish by the frown, of a ca­pricious monarch, in the execution of the laws which hehad no temptation to violate; in the punishment ofcrimes which attacked his own dignity, as well as thehappiness of individuals; Nushirvan, or Chosroes, de­served the appellation of just. His government wasfirm, rigorous, and impartial. It was the first labour ofhis reign to abolish the dangerous theory of common orequal possessions: the lands and women which the sec­taries of Mazdak had usurped, were restored to theirlawful owners; .and the temperate chastisement of thefanatics or impostors confirmed the domestic rights of soiciety. Instead of listening with blind confidence to afavourite minister, he established four viziers over thefour great provinces of his empire, Assyria, Media, Per­sia, and Bactriana. In the choice of judges, prefects,-and counsellors, he strove to remove the mask which is' ■always worn in the presence of kings; he wished to sub­stitute the natural order of talents for the accidental dis­tinctions of birth and fortune ; he professed, in speciouslanguage, his intention to prefer those men who carried,the poor in their bosoms, and to banish corruption fromthe seat of justice, as dogs were excluded from the tem­ples of the Magi. The code of laws of the first Artax-erxes was revived and published as the rule of the magis­trates; but the assurance of speedy punishment was thebest security of their virtue. Their behaviour was in­spected by a thousand eyes, their words were overheard the palace of Ispahan is, or was, the fatal scene of disgrace or death. (Chardin, Voy­age en Perse, torn. 4. p, 312, 313.)