OCR Output 0. VII.] THE ALANS. 325 would not Antiochus, upon this conclusion of the fight, con­tinue there by any means, but took his wife and his daugh­ters, and fled away with them to Cilicia, and by so doing,quite discouraged the minds of his own soldiers. Accordinglythey revolted, and went over to the Romans, out of the des­pair they were in of his keeping the kingdom ; and his casewas looked upon by all as quite desperate. It was thereforenecessary that Epiphanes and his soldiers should get clear oftheir enemies, before they became entirely destitute of anyconfederates: nor were there any more than ten horsemenwith him, who passed with him over Euphrates, whence theywent undisturbed to Vologeses, the king of Parthia, wherethey were not disregarded as fugitives, but had the samerespect paid them as if they had retained their ancientprosperity. 3. Now when Antiochus was come to Tarsus, in Cilicia,Petus ordered a centurion to go to him, and send him in bondsto Rome. However, Vespasian could not endure to have aking brought to him in that manner, but thought it fit ratherto have a regard to the ancient friendship that had been be­tween them, than to preserve an inexorable anger upon thepretence of this war. Accordingly, he gave orders that theyshould take off his bonds while he was still upon the road, andthat he should not come to Rome, but should now go and liveat Lacedemon: he also gave him large revenues, that hemight live not only in plenty, but like a king also. WhenEpiphanes, who before was in great fear for his father, wasinformed of this, their minds were freed from that great andalmost incurable concern they had been under.- He alsohoped that Caesar would be reconciled to them, upon the in­tercession of Vologeses ; for although he lived in plenty, hoknew not how to bear living out of the Roman empire. SoCaesar gave him leave after an obliging manner, and he cameto Rome; and as his father came quickly to him from Lace­demon, he had all sorts of respects paid him there, and therehe remained. 4. Now there was a nation of the Alans, which we haveIV. — 28