OCR Output 266 THE DECLINE AND FALL5 and whose skill and fidelity were equally suspicious. But the hopesof plunder had banished every idea of danger, and a natural fear­lessness of temper, supplied in their minds the more rational confidence,which is the just result of knowledge and experience. Warriors ofsuch a daring spirit, must have often murmured against the cowardiceof their guides, who required the strongest assurances of a settledcalm, before they would venture to embark; and would scarcelyever be tempted to lose sight of the land. Such, at least, is thepractice of the modern Turks ,0*; and they are probably not in­ferior, in the art of navigation, to the ancient inhabitants of Bos­phorus. MpeditSof The fleet of the Goths» having the coast of Circassia on the lefttheGoths. hand, first appeared before Pityus ,oS, the utmost limits of the Ro­man provinces; a city provided with a convenient port, and forti­fied with a strong wall. Here they met with a resistance more ob­stinate than they had reason to expect from the feeble garrison of adistant fortress. They were repulsed; and their disappointmentseemed to diminish the terror of the Gothic name. As long asSuccessianus, an officer of superior rank and merit, defended thatfrontier, all their efforts were ineffectual; but as soon as he wasremoved by Valerian to a more honourable but less importantstation, they resumed the attack of Pityus; and, by the destructionof that city, obliterated the memory of their former disgrace ,o6.TheGoths Circling round the eastern extremity of the Euxine sea, thetake^rre"?./ navigation from Pityus to Trebizond is about three hundredmiles 107. The course of the Goths carried them in sight of thecountry of Colchis, so famous by the expedition of the Argo­nauts ; and they even attempied, though without success, to pillagea rich temple at the mouth of the river Phasis. Trebizond, cele­brated in the retreat of the ten thousand, as an ancient colony o£Greeksderived its wealth and splendor from the munificence ofthe emperor Hadrian, who had constructed an artificial port on a2 coast zond.