OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. expected, the most lavish rewards. The provinces long oppressedby the ministers of the republic, sighed for the government of asingle person, who would be the master, not the accomplice, ofthose petty tyrants. The people of Rome, viewing, with a secretpleasure, the humiliation of the aristocracy, demanded only breadand public shows; and were supplied with both by the liberal handof Augustus. The rich and polite Italians, who had almost univer­sally embraced the philosophy of Epicurus, enjoyed the presentblessings of ease and tranquillity, and suffered not the pleasing dreamto be interrupted by the memory of their old tumultuous freedom.With its power, the senate had lost its dignity; many of the mostnoble families were extinct. The republicans of spirit and abilityhad perished in the field of battle, or in the proscription. The doorof the assembly had been designedly left open, for a mixed multi­tude of more than a thousand persons, who reflected disgrace upontheir rank, instead of deriving honour from it \ The reformation of the senate, was one of the first steps in which *?« fero;ms r the senate. Augustus laid aside the tyrant, and professed himself the father ofhis country. He was elected censor; and, in concert with hisfaithful Agrippa, he examined the list of the senators, expelled afew members, whose vices or whose obstinacy required a publicexample, persuaded near two hundred to prevent the shame of anexpulsion by a voluntary retreat, raised the qualification of a sena­tor to about ten thousand pounds, created a sufficient number ofPatrician families, and accepted for himself, the honourable titleof Prince of the Senate, which had always been bestowed, by thecensors, on the citizen the most eminent for his honours and services \But whilst he thus restored the dignity, he destroyed the independ­ence of the senate. The principles of a free constitution are irre­coverably lost, when the legislative power is appointed by the ex­ecutive. 6 Before