OCR Output 88 LIVY. solving to charge this division first, ordered the troopsto direct their course a great way to the left, so as notto come within view of the posts of the Carthaginians;and having despatched scouts before him, he advancedin a brisk march to attack the enemy. 2. He had arrived within about three miles, and notone of the enemy had yet descried him; craggy rocks,interspersed with thick bushes, covered the hills.Here, in a valley so deep as to be out of the way ofobservation, he ordered his men to halt, and take re­freshment: the scouts in the mean time arrived, con­firming the intelligence given by the deserters. Onthis the Romans, collecting the baggage into the centre,armed themselves, and moved forward in regular order.At the distance of a mile they were perceived by theenemy, among whom their appearance immediatelycreated much hurry and confusion. On the first shout,Mago rode up in full speed from his camp. Now therewere, in the Celtiberian army, four thousand targeteers,and two hundred horsemen: this regular legion (andit was almost the whole of their strength) he placed inthe first line; the rest, who were lightly armed, heposted in reserve. While he was leading them out ofthe camp in this order, and when they had scarcely gotclear of the rampart, the Romans discharged theirjavelins at them ; these the Spaniards stooped to avoid,and then the enemy rose to discharge their own ; which,when the Romans, in close array, had received on theirconjoined shields, in their accustomed manner, theyimmediately closed foot to foot, and had recourse totheir swards to determine the contest. But the nneven-ness of the ground, at the same time that it renderedtheir agility useless to the Celtiberians, who practise adesultory method of fighting, was no disadvantage tothe Romans, accustomed to a steady fight, except thatthe narrow passes, and the bushes interspersed, dis­ordered their ranks, and obliged them to engage oneagainst one, or two against two, as if they had been'matched for the combat. The same circumstance whichprevented the enemy from flying delivered them up, as.