OCR Output CHAP. XL1X. 187 siiteenth century, freedom and knowledge had expandedall the faculties of man; the thirst of innovation super­seded the reverence of antiquity, and the vigour of Eu­rope could disdain those phantoms which terrified thesickly and servile weakness of the Greeks. The scandal of an abstract heresy can be onlyI^tio^of proclaimed to the people by the blast of thethoimages ecclesiastical trumpet; but the most ignorant andmonks, . r . , ., , . A.D.726 can perceive, the most torpid must ieel, the~n' profanation and downfall of their visible deities.The first hostilities of Leo were directed against a loftyChrist on the vestibule, and above the gate, of the palace.A ladder had been planted for the assault, but it wasfuriously shaken by a crowd of zealots and women:they beheld, with pious transport, the ministers ofsacrilege tumbling from on high, and dashed againstthe pavement; and the honours of the ancient martyrswere prostituted to these criminals, who justly sufferedfor murder and rebellion." The execution of the im­perial edict was resisted by frequent tumults in Con­stantinople and the provinces: the person of Leo wasendangered, his officers were massacred, and the popu­lar enthusiasm was quelled by the strongest efforts ofthe civil and military power. Of the Archipelago, orHoly sea, the numerous islands were filled with imagesand monks: their votaries abjured, without scruple, theenemy of Christ, his mother, and the saints: they armeda fleet of boats and galleys, displayed their consecratedbanners, and boldly steered for the harbour of Constan­tinople, to place on the throne a new favourite of Godand the people. They depended on the succour of amiracle; but their miracles were inefficient against theGreekJire; and, after the defeat and conflagration oftheir fleet, the naked islands were abandoned to the cle- * The holy confessor Theophanes approves the principle of their rebellion, &u»xnmipMa {rXi;. (p. 339.) Gregory II. (in Epist. 1. ad Imp. Leon. Concil. torn. 8.p. 661. 664.) applauds the zeal of the Byzantine women who killed the imperialofficers.