OCR Output 40 ROMAN EMPIRE. thority of the magistrate can only be maintained by theconcord of the people. It is in ecclesiastical story, thatZeno appears less contemptible; and I am not able todiscern any Manichaean or Eutychian guilt in the ge­nerous saying of Anastasius, that it was unworthy ofan emperor to persecute the worshippers of Christ andthe citizens of Rome. The Henoticon was most pleas­ing to the Egyptians; yet the smallest blemish has notbeen described by the jealous and even jaundiced eyesof our orthodox schoolmen; and it accurately representsthe Catholic faith of the incarnation, without adoptingor disclaiming the peculiar terms or tenets of the hostilesects. A solemn anathema is pronounced against Nes-toriusand Eutyches; againstall heretics by whom Christis divided, or confounded, or reduced to a phantom.Without defining the number or the article of the wordnature, the pure system of St. Cyril, the faith of Nice,Constantinople, and Ephesus, is respectfully confirmed;but, instead of bowing at the name of the fourth coun­cil, the subject is dismissed by the censure of all con­trary doctrines, if any such have been taught eitherelsewhere or at Chalcedon. Under this ambiguous ex­pression, the friends and the enemies of the last synodmight unite in a silent embrace. The most reasonableChristians acquiesced in this mode of toleration; buttheir reason wasfeeble and inconstant,and their obediencewas despised as timid and servile by the vehement spiritof their brethren. On a subject which engrossed thethoughts and discourses of men, it was difficult to pre­serve an exact neutrality; a book, a sermon, a prayer,rekindled the flame of controversy; and the bonds ofcommunion were alternately broken and renewed by theprivate animosity of the bishops. The space betweenNestorius and Eutyches was filled by a thousand shadesof language and opinion; the acephali4 of Egypt, and "See lUnaudot. (Hist . Patriarch. Alex. p. 123. 131. 145. 195—347.) Theyware recontiled by the care of Mark I. (A. D. 799—819.) he promoted their chiefo