OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 181 conqueror. (1) The eastern regions of Germany, which had been left vacant bythe emigration of the Vandals, were replenished with the Sclavonian colonists:the same tribes are discovered in the neighbourhood of the Hadriatic and of theBaltic, and with the name of Baian himself, the Illyrian cities of Neyss and Lissaare again found in the heart of Silesia. In the disposition both of his troops andprovinces, the chagan exposed the vassals, whose lives he disregarded,(2) to thefirst assault; and the swords of the enemy were blunted before they encounteredthe native valour of the Avars. The Persian alliance restored the troops of the east to the defence of .Europe;and Maurice, who had supported ten years the insolence of the chagan, declaredhis resolution to march in person against the barbarians. In the space of twocenturies, none of the successors of Theodosius had appeared in the field, theirlives were supinely spent in the palace of Constantinople; and the Greeks couldno longer understand, that the name of emfieror, in its primitive sense, denotedthe chief of the armies of the republic The martial ardour of Maurice was op­posed by the grave flattery of the senate, the timid superstition of the patriarch,and the tears of the empress Constantina; and they all conjured him to devolve onsome meaner general the fatigues and perils of a Scythian campaign. Deaf totheir advice and entreaty, the emperor boldly advanced(3) seven miles from thecapital; the sacred ensign of the cross was displayed in the front, and Maurice re­viewed, with conscious pride, the arms and numbers of the veterans who hadfought and conquered beyond the Tigris. Anchialus saw the last term of his pro­gress by sea and land; he solicited, without success, a miraculous answer to hisnocturnal prayers; his mind was copfounded by the death of a favourite horse, theencounter of a wild boar, a storm of wind and rain, and the birth of a monstrouschild, and he forgot that the best omen is to unsheathe our sword in the defenceof our country. (4) Under the pretence of receiving the ambassadors of Persia,the emperor returned to Constantinople, exchanged the thoughts of war for thoseof devotion, and disappointed the public hope, by his absence and the choice of hislieutenants. The blind partiality of fraternal love might excuse the promotion ofhis brother Peter, who fled with equal disgrace from the barbarians, from his ownsoldiers, and from the inhabitants of a Roman city. That city, if we may creditthe resemblance of name and character, was the famous Azimuntium,(5; whichhad alone repelled the tempest of Attila. The example of her warlike youthwas propagated to succeeding generations; and they obtained, from the first orthe second Justin, an honourable privilege, that their valour should be always re­served for the defence of their native country. The brother of Maurice attemptedto violate this privilege, and to mingle a patriot band with the mercenaries of hiscamp; they retired to the church, he was not awed by the sanctity of the place;the people rose in their cause, the gates were shut, the ramparts were manned;and the cowardice of Peter was found equal to his arrogance and injustice. Themilitary fame of Commentiolus(6) is the object of satire or comedy rather than ofserious history, since he was even deficient in the vile and vulgar qualification ofpersonal courage. His solemn councils, strange evolutions, and secret orders,always supplied an apology for flight or delay. If he marched against the enemy,the pleasant valleys of mount Hxmus opposed an insuperable barrier; but in hisretreat, he explored, with fearless curiosity, the most difficult and obsolete paths,which had almost escaped the memory of the oldest native. The only bloodwhich he lost was drawn, in a real or affected malady, by the lancet of a surgeon;and his health, which felt with exquisite sensibility the" approach of the barba- (0 Thii is one of the most probable anil luminous conjectures of the learned count tie Bunt. (Hist, des Pen­nies Barbara, torn. xi. p. 54tJ—568.) The Tzeehi and Serbi are found together near mount Caucasus, in llly-ricum, and on the lower Elbe. Even the wildest traditions of the Bohemians, Sec. afford some colour to hishypothesis. (2) See Fredegarius, in the historians of France, torn. ii. p. 432. Baian did not conceal his proud insensibili­ty. Or* ToiavTsus (not TorouTouc, according to a foolish emendation,) ittx%htu> t* Pm^'kh »? " **< oypdaoi > * (3) See the march and return of Maurice, in Theophylact. lib. v. c. 16. lib. vi. c. 1—3. If he were a wri­ter of taste or genius, we might suspect him of an elegant irony: but Theophylact is surely harmless. (4) 'E'; 0*wvOf apirrei; apuvftrfal srepi irxrfr:. Iliad, ail. 243. This noble verse, which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage, may prove that Homer was inevery light superior to bis age and country. (5) Theophylact, lib. vii. c. 3. On the evidence of this fact, which had not occurred to my memory, thecandid reader will correct and excuse a note in the second volume of this history, which hastens the de­cay of Asirnus, or Azimuntium: another century of patriotism and valour is cheaply purchased by such aconfession. (6) See the shameful conduct of Commcntiolus, in Theophvlact. lib. ii. c. 10—15; lib. vii. e. 13.14; lib. viii.*. 2. 4.