OCR Output 156 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773. their defeat, to undertake a siege, changed his planof operations. He chose a roving kind of war; ifthe Romans advanced, quick in retreat, and, as soonas the pursuit was over, wheeling round to hang uponthe rear. By this desultory mode of skirmishing, thewily African baffled and fatigued the Roman army,till having ravaged the country near the sea-coast, andloaded his men with booty, he was obliged to pitchhis camp. In that situation Apronius Csesianus, sonof the proconsul, at the head of the cavalry, the auxi­liary cohorts, and a body of light infantry, draughtedfrom the legions, gave battle to the Numidian, and,having gained a complete victory, obliged him to flyto his wilds and deserts. . XXII. At Rome, in the rr *n time, a prosecutionwas carried on against Lepida, a woman of illustriousbirth, descended from the ^milian family, and greatgrand-daughter both to Sylla and Pompey. She wasmarried to Publius Quirinius, a citizen of great wealth,far advanced in years, but without children to inherithis estate. The wife was charged with an attemptto pass a supposititious child for his legitimate issue.Other articles were added; such as adultery, dealingin poison, and consultations with Chaldean astrolo­gers concerning the fate of the imperial family. Herbrother, Manius Lepidus, undertook her defence.Quirinius had repudiated her; and yet, after his di­vorce, attacked her with implacable resentment.This circumstance, notwithstanding the guilt and in­famy of Lepida, rendered her an object of compassion.In the course of the proceeding, the real sentimentsof Tiberius eluded all discovery. Fluctuating betweenopposite passions, he mixed and shifted mercy and re­sentment in such quick succession, that where hewould fix it was impossible to guess. He desired thatthe crime of violated majesty might bo thrown out ofthe case, and in a short time after, ordered MarcusServilius, of consular rank, and the rest of the wit­nesses, to prove the very facts over which he pre­tended to draw a veil. He removed the slaves ofLepida, who had been placed under a military guard,to the custody of the consuls; nor would he suffer