OCR Output Chap. XII.] . NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 427 faded far earlier than the Italian, had long ago passedthe epoch of faith and thenceforth moved exclusively in thesphere of speculation and reflection; for long there had beenno religion there, and nothing but philosophy. But eventhe philosophic activity of the Hellenic mind had, when itbegan to exert influence on Rome, already left the epoch ofproductive speculation far behind it, and had arrived at thestage at which there is not only no origination of reallynew systems, but even the power of apprehending the moreperfect of the older systems begins to wane and men restrictthemselves to the repetition, soon passing into the scholastictradition, of the less complete dogmas of their predecessors;at that stage, accordingly, when philosophy, instead of givinggreater depth and freedom to the mind, rather renders itshallow and imposes on it the worst of all chains—chains ofits own forging. The enchanted draught of speculation, al­ways dangerous, is, when diluted and stale, certain poison.The contemporary Greeks presented it thus flat and di­luted to the Romans, and these had not the judgment either'to refuse it or to go back from the livingschoolmasters to thedead masters. Plato and Aristotle, to say nothing of thesages before Socrates, remained without material influenceon the Roman culture, although their illustrious names werefreely employed, and their more easily understood writingswere probably read and translated. Accordingly theRomans became in philosophy simply inferior scholars ofbad teachers. Besides the historico-rationalistic view ofreligion, which resolved the myths into biographies of variousbenefactors of the human race living in the grey dawnof early times whom superstition had transformed intogods, or Euhemerism as it was called (ii. 401), there werechiefly three philosophical schools that came to be of im­portance for Italy ; viz. the two dogmatic schools of Epicurus(+484) and Zeno (+491) and the sceptical school of Arcesi- 270. 263.laus ( + 513) and Carneades (541-625), or, to use the school- 241.names, Epicureanism, the Stoa, and the newer Academy. 213-129.The last of these schools, which started from the impossibi­lity of assured knowledge and in its stead only conceded aspossible a provisional opinion sufficient for practical require­ments, presented mainly a polemical aspect, seeing that itcaught every proposition of positive faith or of philosophicdogmatism in the meshes of its dilemmas. So far it standsnearly on a parallel with the earlier method of the sophists;