OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 283 in frequent embassies; he led an army into Italy, ac­quired a practical knowledge of the war, and the country;and presumed to strive with the genius of Belisarius.Twelve years after his return, the eunuch was chosen toachieve the conquest which had been left imperfect bythe first of the Roman generals. Instead of being daz­zled by vanity or emulation, he seriously declared, thatunless he were armed with an adequate force, he wouldnever consent to risk his own glory, and that of his sove­reign. Justinian granted to the favourite, what he mighthave denied to the hero: the Gothic war was rekindledfrom its ashes, and the preparations were not unworthyof the ancient majesty of the empire. The key of thepublic treasure was put into his hand, to collect maga­zines, to levy soldiers, to purchase arms and horses, todischarge the arrears of pay, and to tempt the fidelity ofthe fugitives and deserters. The troops of Germanuswere still in arms; they halted at Salona in the expec­tation of a new leader; and legions of subjects and al­lies were created by the well-known liberality of the eu­nuch Narses. The king of the Lombards11 satisfied orsurpassed the obligations of a treaty, by lending twothousand two hundred of his bravest warriors, who werefollowed by three thousand of their martial attendants.Three thousand Heruli fought on horseback under Phi-lemuth, their native chief; and the noble Aratus, whoadopted the manners and discipline of Rome, conducteda band of veterans of the same nation. Dagistheus wasreleased from prison to command the Huns; and Ko-bad," the grandson and nephew of the great king, wasconspicuous by the regal tiara at the head of his faithfulPersians, who had devoted themselves to the fortunesof their prince.' Absolute in the exercise of his autho- the foolish prophecy of the Romans subsisted in fall vigour. (Procop. lib. 4. c. 21.) h Paul Warnefrid, the Lombard, records with complacency the succour, service,and honourable dismission of his countrymen—reipnblicrc Romans adrersus semulosadjutores faerant. (lib. 2. c. 1. p. 774. edit. Grot.) I am surprised that Alboin, theirmartial king, did not lead his subjects in person. 'He was, if not an impostor, the son of the blind Zames, saved by compassion, U 2