OCR Output 3* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. became very wicked in worshipping of idols, and in many un­dertakings that were- absurd and foreign. He was also the causeof ten thousand misfortunes to the people of Israel. Now oneJonah, a prophet, foretold to him, that he should make war withthe Syrians, and conquer their army, and enlarge the bounds ofhis kingdom on the northern parts, to the city Hamath, and onthe southern, to the lake Asphaltitis, for the. bounds of theCanaanites originally were these as Joshua their general haddetermined them. So Jeroboam made an expedition against theSyrians and overran all their country, as Jonah had foretold. 2. Now I cannot but think it necessary for me, who have pro­mised to give an accurate account of our affairs, to describe theactions of the prophet, so far as I have found them writtendown in the Hebrew books. Jonah had been commanded byGod to go to the kingdom of Nineveh; and when he was there,to publish it in that city, how it should lose the dominion it hadover the nations. But he went not, out of fear; nay, he ranaway from God to the city of Joppa, and finding a ship there, hewent into it, and sailed to * Tarsus in Cilicia, and upon therise of a most terrible storm, which was so great that the shipwas in danger of sinking, the mariners, the master, and the pi­lot himself, made prayers and vows, in case they escaped the sea;but Jonah lay still and covered [in the ship], without imitatingany thing that the others did: but as the waves grew greater,and the sea became more violent by the winds, they suspected,as is usual in such cases, that some one of the persons that sailedwith them, was the occasion of this storm, and agreed to discoverby lot which of them it was. When they had f cast lots, the as Josephus agrees with our other copies, and, as he adds "was the cause of a vastnumber of misfortunes to the Israelites," in those his first years, (the particulars ofwhich are unhappily wanting both in Josephus and in all our copies), so does itseem to me that he was afterwards reclaimed, and became a good king, and sowas encouraged by the prophet Jonah, and had great successes afterward, when"God had saved the Israelites by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash," 2 Kingsxiv. 27. which encouragement by Jonah, and great successes are equally observablein Josephus, and in the other copies. * When Jonah is said in our Bibles to have gone to Tarshish, Jonah i. 3. Jo­sephus understood it that he went to Tarshish in Cilicia, or to ihe MediterraneanSta, upon which Tarsus lay: so that he docs not appear to have read the text,J Kings xxii. 48. as our copies do, that ships of Tarshish could lie at Ezion-Ge-ber, upon the Red Sea. But as to Josephus' assertion that Jonah's fish wascarried by the strength of the current, upon a storm, as far as the F.uxine Sea, it isno way impossible: and since the storm might have driven the ship, while Jonahwas in it, near to the Euxine Sea, and since in three more days while he was in thefish's belly, that current might bring him to the Assyrian coast, and since withalthat coast could bring him nearer to Nineveh than could any coast of the Mediter­ranean, it is by no means an improbable determination in Josephus. f Thi's ancient piece of religion, of supposing there was great tin where therev as great misery, and of casting lots to discover great sinners, not only among