OCR Output 94 ITAMA. ITALIA. for a long time extended their dominion over a con­siderable jiart of the S., and wrested from the thilo-.sof Benevcnto the districts to which they pave thenames of the CapUanaJa and the BasMcato (a part ofthe ancient Apulia and Lucania), and of which theyretained possession till the 11th century. It wasthen that a new enemy first appeared on the scene,and the Normans, under Robert Guiscard, completedthe final expulsion of the Greek emperors from Italy.The capture of Bari in 1071, and of Salerno in1077, destroyed the last vestiges of the dominionthat had been founded bv the generals of Justinian.(D'Auville, E'tats formes en Europe apres la Chutede T Empire Jiomuin, 4to. Paris, 1771.) vi. popilation of italv under theRomans. The statements transmitted to us from antiquityconcerning the amount of the population in differentcities and countries are for the most part of so vaguea character and such uncertain authority as to belittle worthy of consideration ; but we have twofacts recorded in connection with that of Italy,which may lead us to form at least an approximateestimate of its numbers. The first of these data isthe statement given by Polybius, as well as byseveral Roman writers on the authority of Fabius,and which there is every reason to believe based onauthentic documents, of the total amount of theforces which the Romans and their allies were ableto oppose to the threatened invasion of the Gauls inli. c 225. According to the detailed enumerationgiven by Polybius, the total number of men capableof bearing arms which ajtpeared on the registersof the Romans and their allies, amounted to above700,000 foot and 70,000 horsemen. Pliny givesthem at 700,000 foot and 80,000 horse; whileEutrnpius and Orosius state the whole amount inround numbers at 800,000. (Pol. ii. 24; Plin. iii.SO. s. 24; Eutrop. iii. 5; Oros. iv. 13.) It isevident-, from the precise statements of Polybius, thatthis was the total amount of the free population ofmilitary ape (to avfurar w\rj6os rwr &vvap.*vwviw\a. fkurrdfyar'), and not that which could beActually brought into the field. If we estimate theproportion of these to the total free population us1 to 4, which appears to have been the ratio cur­rently adopted in ancient times, wo should obtain atotal of 3,200,000 for the free population of theItalian peninsula, exclusive of the greater part ofCisalpine Gaul, and the whole of Liguria* : andeven if wo adopt the proportion of 1 to 5, morecommonly received in modern times, this would stillgive a total of only 4,0tX),000, an amount by nomeans very large, as the population of the samepart* nf Italy at the present day considerably ex­ceeds 9,000,000. (Serriatori, Matistica d Italia.}Of the amount of the senile population we haveno means of funning an estimate: but it was pro­bably not large at this period of the Ionian history;and its subsequent rapid increase was contempo­raneous with the diminution of the free population.The complaints of the extent to which this had * The Cenomani and Veueti were among theallies who sent assistance to the Romans on thisoccasion, but their actual contingent of 20,000 menit all that is included in the estimate of Polybius.They did not, like the Italian allies, and doubtlesscould not, send registers of their total availableresources. taken place as early as the time of the Gracchi, an**their lamentations over the depopulation of Italy(Plut. T. Gracch. 8), would lead us to suppose thatthe number of free citizens bad greatly fallen off.If this was the case in b. c. 133, the events of lbsnext half century — the sanguinary struggle of theSocial War, which swept off, ai-cording to VclleiuaPaterculus (ii. 15), more than 300,000 men in thevigour of their age, and the cruel devastation ofSaninium and Etruria by Sulla—were certainly ir«:calculated to repair the deficiency. But, notwith­standing this, we find that the census of B. c 70,which included all the new citizens recently ad­mitted to the Roman franchise, and did Dot yetcomprise any population out of Italy, nor even theTranspadane Gauls, gave a result of 910,000 Io­nian citizens (capita civium); from which we mayfairly infer a free population of at least 4.50O.0UU.(Liv. EpU. xcviii. ed. Jahn, compared with PhJecon,ap. Phot. Bill p. 84. ed. Bekker.) The rapid ra-tension of a Roman population in Gallia CUpadaict,as well as Venetia and Liguria, had evidently morathan compensated for the diminution in the centralprovinces of the peninsula. Of the populousness of Italy under the Empire,we have no data on which to found an estimate.But there are certainly no reasons to suppose thatit ever exceeded the amount which it had attainedunder the Republic. Complaints of its depopu­lation, of the decay of flourishing towns, and tb*desolation of whole districts, are frequent in thewriters of the Augustan age and the first century f-fthe Christian era. We arc told that Caesar inB. c. 46, already found a dreadful diminution of tbepopulation (huv^v 6\iyay0punrla*'1 Dion Cass. xJiiu25); and the period of the Triumvirate must hav«tended greatly to a^ravate the eviL Augnatuaseems to have used every means to recruU th*exhausted population: but that bis efforts were bospartially successful is evident from the picture*which Strabo (writing in the reign of Tiberim*)gives us of the state of decay and desolation towhich the once populous provinces of Saraninxet,Apulia, and Lucania, were in his day reduced; whileLivy confirms his statement, in regard even to di«-^tricts nearer Rome, such as the land of the A^jaianaand Volscians. (Strab. v. p. 249, vi pp. 25s"*,281; Liv. vi. 12.) Pliny, writing under Vespasian,speaks of the " Iatifundia" as having been "tbe ruin<i Italy;" and there seems no reason to supposethat this evil was afterwards checked iu any materialdegree. The splendour of many of tbe municipaltowns, and especially the magnificent public build­ings with which they were adorned, is apt to comera notion of wealth and opulence which it seems hardto combine with that of a declining p>'|>ulation. Ratit must be remembered that these great works w*t»in many, probably in most instances, erected by thaimunificence either of the emperors or of private in­dividuals: and the va*t wealth of a few nobles waaso far from being the sign of general prosperity, thaiit was looked upon as one of tbe main causes k4decay. Many of the towns and cities of Italy wnr.however, noojnubt very flourishing and t*>palixi»:but numerous testimonies of ancient writers seem toprove that this was f-tr from being the case with lb«country at large; and it is certain that no ancirotauthor lends any countenance to the notion enter­tained by some modern writers, of "tbe iarrctlibWmultitudes of people with which Italy aboundeddaring the reigns of tbe Raman emperors" (Ad*