OCR Output 192 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. out of them, and do mischief to the Jews. He also fortifiedthe citadel at Jerusalem more than all the rest. Moreover hetook the sons of the principal Jews as pledges, and shut themup in the citadel, and in that manner guarded it. 4. About the same time one came to Jonathan, and to hisbrother Simon, and told them that the sons of Ambri werecelebrating a marriage, and bringing the bride from the cityGabatha, who was the daughter of one of the illustrious menamong the Arabians, and that the damsel was to be conductedwith pomp and splendour, and much riches: So Jonathan andSimon thinking this appeared to be the fittest time for them toavenge the death of their brother, and that they had forces suf­ficient for receiving satisfaction from them for his death, theymade haste to Medaba, and lay in wait among the mountains forthe coming of their enemies; and as soon as they saw them con­ducting the virgin, and her bridegroom, and such a great com­pany of their friends with them, as was to be expected at thiswedding, they sallied out of their ambush, and slew them all;and took their ornaments, and all the prey that then followedthem, and so returned, and received this satisfaction for theirbrother John from the sons of Ambri; for as well those sonsthemselves, as their friends, and wives, and children, that fol­lowed them, perished, being in number about four hundred. 5. However, Simon and Jonathan returned to the lakes ofthe river, and abode there. But Bacchides, when he had secur­ed all Judea with his garrisons, returned to the king: and thenit was that the affairs of Judea were quiet for two years. Butwhen the deserters and the wicked saw that Jonathan and thosethat were with him lived in the country very quietly, by rea­son of the peace, they sent to king Demetrius, and excited himto send Bacchides to seize upon Jonathan, which they said wasto be done without any trouble, and in one night's time; andthat if they fell upon them before they were aware, they mightslay them all. So the king sent Bacchides, who, when he wascome into Judea, wrote to all his friends, both Jews and aux­iliaries, that they should seize upon Jonathan, and bring him tohim; and, when, upon all their endeavours, they were not ableto seize upon Jonathan, for he was sensible of the snares they laidfor him, and very carefully guarded against them, Bacchides wasangry at these deserters, as having imposed upon him, andupon the king, and slew fifty of their leaders. Whereupon Jona­than, with his brother, and those that were with them, retiredto Bethagla, a village that lay in the wilderness, out of his fearof Bacchides. He also built towers on it, and encompassed itwith walls, and took care that it should be safely guarded. Uponthe hearing of which, Bacchidw ^ed his own army along with