OCR Output 8 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV Lucullus, arrived at head-quarters, he found the war whichhe had come to conduct already terminated hy a formallyconcluded peace, and his hopes of bringing home honour andmore especially money from Spain apparently frustrated. Butthere was a means of surmounting this difficulty. Lucullusof his own accord attacked the western neighbours of theArevacae, the Vaccaei, a Celtiberian nation still independentand living on the best terms with the Romans. The questionof the Spaniards as to what fault they had committed wasanswered by a sudden attack on the town of Cauca (Coca,eight Spanish leagues to the west of Segovia); and, whilethe terrified town believed that it had purchased a capitu­lation by heavy sacrifices of money, Roman troops marchedin and enslaved or slaughtered the inhabitants without anypretext at all. After this heroic feat, which is said to havecost the lives of some 20,000 men, the army proceeded on itsmarch. Far and wide the villages and townships wereabandoned or, as in the case of the strong Intercatia andPallantia (Palencia) the capital of the Vaccaei, closed then-gates against the Roman army. Covetousness was caughtin its own net; there was no community that would ventureto conclude a capitulation with the perfidious commander,and the general flight of the inhabitants not only renderedbooty scarce, but made it almost impossible for him to re­main for any length of time in such inhospitable regions. Infront of Intercatia, Scipio iEmilianus, an esteemed militarytribune, the sen of the victor of Pydna and the adoptedgrandson of the victor of Zama, succeeded, by pledging hisword of honour when that of the general no longer availed,in inducing the inhabitants to conclude an agreement byvirtue of which the Roman army departed on receiving asupply of cattle and clothing. But the siege of Pallantiahad to be raised for want of provisions, and the Roman armyin its retreat was pursued by the Vaccaei as far as the Douro.Lucullus thereupon proceeded to the southern province,where in the same year the praetor, Servius Sulpicius Galba,had allowed himself to be defeated by the Lusitanians. Theyspent the winter not far from each other—Lucullus in theterritory of the Turdetani, Galba at Conistorgis—and in the150. following year (604) jointly attacked the Lusitanians. Lu­cullus gained some advantages over them near the straits ofGades. Galba performed a greater achievement, for he con­cluded a treaty with three Lusitanian tribes on the right