OCR Output 516 [book xy. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tion fell upon the Arabians: for when theyperceived that the Jews were not to be con­quered, and were full of spirit, the greaterpart of them ran away, and avoided fighting.And they had been quite destroyed, had notAthenio fallen upon the Jews, and distressedthem. This man was Cleopatra's generalover the soldiers she had there, and was atenmity with Herod; and very wistfully lookedon, to see what the event of the battle wouldbe. He had also resolved, that in case theArabians did any thing that was brave andsuccessful, he would lie still; but in case theywere beaten, as it really happened, he wouldattack the Jews with those forces he had ofhis own, and with those that the country had fotten together for him. So he fell upon theews unexpectedly, when they were fatiguedand thought they had already vanquished theenemy, and made a great slaughter of them.For as the Jews had spent their courage upontheir known enemies, and were about to enjoythemselves in quietness after their victory;they were easily beaten by these that at­tacked them afresh; and in particular re­ceived a great loss in places where the horsescould not be of service, and which were verystony; and where those that attacked themwere better acquainted with the places thanthemselves. And when the Jews had sufferedthis loss, the Arabians resumed their courageafter their defeat; and, returning back again,slew those that were already put to flight.And indeed all sorts of slaughter were nowfrequent; and of those that escaped, a fewonly returned into the camp. So king Herod,when he despaired of the battle, rode up tothem, to bring them assistance. Yet he didnot come time enough to render them anyservice; though he laboured hard to do it:but the Jewish camp was taken. So that theArabians had unexpectedly a most glorioussuccess; having gained that victory, whichof themselves they were no way likely tohave gained; and slaying a great part of theenemy's army. Whence afterward Herodcould only act like a private robber, andmake excursions, upon many parts of Arabia, and distress them by sudden incursions;while he encamped among the mountains,and avoided by any means to come to apitched battle. Yet did he greatly harassthe enemy by his assiduity, and the hardlabour he took in this matter. He also tookgreat care of his own forces; and used allthe means he could to restore his affairs totheir former state. At this time the fight happened at Actium,between Octavius Caesar and Antony; in theseventh* year of the reign of Herod. Andthen it was also that there was an earthquakein Judea: such a one as had not happenedat any other time: and which earthquakebrought a great destruction upon the cattlein that country. About ften thousand menalso perished by the fall of houses. But thearmy, which lodged in the field, received nodamage from this sad accident. When theArabians were informed of this, and whenthose that hated the Jews, and pleased them­selves with aggravating the reports, told themof it; they raised their spirits, as if their ene­my's country were quite overthrown, and themen were utterly destroyed; and thoughtthere now remained nothing that could op­pose them. Accordingly they took the Jewishambassadors, who came to them, after allthis had happened, to make peace with them,and slew them; and came with great alacrityagainst their army. But the Jews durst notwithstand them; and were so cast down bythe calamities they were under, that they tookno care of their affairs; but gave themselvesup to despair. For they had no hope thatthey should be upon a level with them againin battle, nor obtain any assistance elsewhere;while their affairs at home were in such greatdistress. When matters were in this condi­tion, the king persuaded the commanders byhis words, and tried to raise their spirits,which were quite sunk. And first he endea­voured to encourage and embolden some ofthe better sort beforehand; and then venturedto make a speech to the multitude. which hehad before avoided to do; lest he should findthem uneasy because of the misfortunes which * The reader is here to take notice, that this seventhyear of the reign of Herod, and all the other years of hisreign, in Josephus, are dated from the death of Antigo-nus; or at the soonest from the conquest of Antigonus,and the taking of Jerusalem a few months before: and never from his first obtaining the kingdom at Romeabove three years before; as some have very injudi­ciously done. See the rest of those dates, XV. 9, 10,and 11. and XVI. 5.t Or thirty thousand