OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL he once more turned his face towards Syria. Antioch was alarmedby his rapid approach, and the helpless city of Palmyra felt the irre足sistible weight of his resentment. We have a letter of Aurelianhimself, in which he acknowledges that old men, women, chil足dren, and peasants, had been involved in that dreadful execution,which should have been confined to armed rebellion; and althoughhis principal concern seems directed to the restoration of a templeof the Sun, he discovers some pity for the remnant of the Palmy-xenians, to whom he grants the permission of rebuilding and inha足biting their city. But it is easier to destroy than to revive. Thefeat of commerce, of arts, and of Zenobia, gradually funk into anobscure town, a trifling fortress, and at length a miserable vilfage.The present citizens of Palmyra, consisting of thirty or forty fami足lies, have erected their mud cottages within the spacious court of amagnificent temple. Aurelian sup- Another and a last labour still awaited the indefatigable Aurelian;beilion of Fir- to suppress a dangerous though obscure rebel, who, during the re-auiftio gypt. ^ pajmvra) ha(j arifen on the banks of the Nile. Firmus, the friend and ally, as he proudly styled himself, of Odenathus andZenobia, was no more than a wealthy merchant of Egypt. In thecourse of his trade to India, he had formed very intimate connectionswith the Saracens and the Blemmyes, whose situation on either coastof the Red Sea, gave them an easy introduction into the UpperEgypt. The Egyptians he inflamed with the hope of freedom,and, at the head of their furious multitude, broke into the city ofAlexandria, where he assumed the imperial purple, coined money,,published edicts, and raised an army, which, as he, vainly boasted,he was capable of maintaining from the sole profits of his papertrade. Such troops were a feeble defence against the approach ofAurelian; and it seems almost unnecessary to relate, that Firmuswas routed, taken, tortured, and put to death. Aurelian might nowcongratulate the senate,, the people, and himself, that in little more than