OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 165 risk the event of a desperate and decisive sally. But chap.their spirit insensibly stooped to the offers of ca- XXXVLpitulation: they retrieved their arrears of pay, andpreserved their arms and horses, by inlisting in theservice of Totila ;. their chiefs, who pleaded a laud­able attachment to their wives and children in theEast, were dismissed with honour; and above fourhundred enemies, who had taken refuge in thesanctuaries, were saved by the clemency of the victor.He no longer entertained a wish of destroying theedifices of Rome*, which he now respected as theseat of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and peoplewere restored to their country; the means of sub­sistence were liberally provided; and Totila, in therobe of peace, exhibited the equestrian games of thecircus. Whilst he amused the eyes of the multitude,four hundred vessels were prepared for the embarka­tion of his troops. The cities of Rhegium and Ta^rentum were reduced: he passed into Sicily, theobject of his implacable resentment; and the islandwas stripped of its gold and silver, of the fruits ofthe earth, and of an infinite number of horses, sheep,and oxen. Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the fortuneof Italy; and the sea coast of Greece was visited bya fleet of three hundred galleys t. The Goths werelanded in Corcyra and the ancient continent of Epi-rus; they advanced as far as Nicopolis, the trophyof Augustus and Dodona, once famous by the oracleof Jove. In every step of his victories, the wise Bar­barian repeated to Justinian his desire of peace, ap- • The Romans were still attached to the monuments of their ancestors; andaccording to Procopius (Goth. 1. iv. c. 22), the galley of .Eneas, of a single rankof oars, 25 feet in breadth, 120 in length, was preserved entire in the navalia,near Monte Testaceo, at the foot of the Aventine (Nardini, Roma Antica, 1. vii.c. 9. p. 466. Donatus, Roma Antiqua, 1. iv. c. 13, p. 334). But all antiquityis ignorant of this relic. •f- In these seas, Procopius searched without success for the isle of Calypso.He was shown, at Phaeacia or Corcyra, the petrified ship of Ulysses (Odyss. xiii.163); but he found it a recent fabric of many stones, dedicated by a merchantto Jupiter Cassius (L iv. c. 22). Eustathius had supposed it to be the fancifullikeness of a rock. M 3