OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 61 as if the prophet were a diviner against the king, they accusedJeremiah, and bringing him before the court they required thata sentence and a punishment might be given against him. Nowall the rest gave their votes for his condemnation, but the eldersrefused, who prudently sent away the prophet from the court of[the prison] and persuaded the rest to do Jeremiah no harm;for they said, that "he was not the only person who foretold"what would come to the city, but that Micath signified the same"before him, as well as many others, none of which suffered"any thing of the kings that then reigned, but were honoured as"the prophets of God." So they mollified the multitude withthese words, and delivered Jeremiah from the punishment towhich he was condemned. Now when this prophet had -writtenall his prophecies, and the people were fasting, and assembled atthe temple, on the ninth month of the fifth year of Jehoiakim, heread the book he had composed of his predictions, of what was tobefall the city, and the temple, and the multitude. And when therulers heard of it, they took the book from him, and bid him andBaruch the scribe to go their ways, lest they should be discoveredby one or other; but they carried the book, and gave it to theking, so he gave order, in the presence of his friends, that hisscribe should take it, and read it. When the king heard whatit contained, he was angry, and tore it, and cast it into the fire,where it was consumed. He also commanded, that they shouldseek for Jeremiah and Baruch the scribe, and bring them tohim, that they might be punished. However they escaped hisanger. 3. Now a little time afterward, the king of Babylon made anexpedition against Jehoiakim, whom he received [into the city,]and this out of fear of the foregoing predictions of this prophet,as supposing that he should suffer nothing that was terri­ble, because he neither shut the gates, nor fought againsthim; yet when he was come into the city, he did not observethe covenants he had made, but he slew .such as were in theflower of their age, and such as were of the greatest dignity,together with their king Jehoiakim, whom he commandedto be thrown before the walls, without any burial; and madehis son Jehoiachin king of the country, and of the city: he alsotook the principal persons in dignity for captives, three thousandin number, and led them away to Babylon; among whom wasthe prophet Ezekiel, who was then but young. And this wasthe end of king Jehoiakim, when he had lived thirty-six years,and of them reigned eleven ; but Jehoiachin succeeded him in thekingdom, whose mother's name was Nehushta: she was a citizenof Jerusalem. He reigned three months and ten days.