OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 71 his camp at the distance of about fifteen hundred pacesfrom the enemy. From hence the rampart of the Car­thaginians seemed to be almost close to the wall ofGrumentum; the actual distance, however, was fivehundred paces. Between the Carthaginian and Ro­man camps the ground was level; and on the left-hand side of the Carthaginians, and right of the Ro­mans, stood some naked hills, from which neitherparty apprehended any mischief, because there wereno woods, nor any covering for an ambuscade. Par­ties sallying from the advanced posts fought severalskirmishes of little consequence. It appeared plainlythat the Roman general had no other object in viewthan to hinder the enemy from quitting the place;while Hannibal, wishing to get away, frequently drewout bis whole strength, and offered battle. On thisoccasion the consul adopted the crafty genius of hisadversary; and, as there could be little apprehensionof a surprise, the hills being open, and having beenexamined by his scouts, he ordered five cohorts, withfive additional companies, to pass over their summitin the night, and conceal themselves in the valleys onthe other side. The time when they were to rise fromtheir ambush he settled with Tiberius Claudius Asel-lus, military tribune, and Publius Claudius, prefectof the allies, whom he sent at their head. He him­self, at the dawn of day, drew out all his forces, bothfoot and horse, into the field. In a short time afterHannibal also, on his side, displayed the signal forbattle, and a great noise ensued in his camp, while themen ran hastily to arms. Then all, both horse andfoot, rushed eagerly out of the gates, and scatteringthemselves over the plain, advanced hastily to attackthe enemy. The consul, observing them in this dis­order, commanded Caius Aurunculeius, tribune of thethird legion, to make his cavalry charge them with allpossible fury, remarking, that ' they had spread them­selves like cattle over the plain, and in such confusionthat, before they could be formed, they might be riddendown and trodden under foot.'