OCR Output 361 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. by the introduction of foreign practices, which constitution yetought to have been preserved inviolable; by which means vrebecame guilty of great wickedness afterward, while those re­ligious observances which used to lead the multitude to piety,were now neglected: for, in the first place, he appointed so­lemn games to be celebrated every fifth year, in honour of Caesar, and built a theatre at Jerusalem, as also a very great am­phitheatre in the plain. Both of them were indeed costly works,but opposite to the Jewish customs; for we have had no suchshows delivered down to us as fit to be used or exhibited by us;yet did he celebrate these games every five years, in the mostsolemn and splendid manner. He also made proclamation to theneighbouring countries, and called men together out of everynation. The wrestlers also, and the rest of those that strove forthe prizes in such games, were invited out of every land, bothby the hopes of the rewards there to be bestowed, and by theglory of victory to be there gained. So the principal personsthat were the most eminent in these sorts of exercises, weregotten together, for there were very great rewards for victoryproposed, not only to those that performed their exercises naked,but to those that played the musicians also, and were called Thy-melici; but he spared no pains to induce all persons, the mostfamous for such exercises, to come to this contest for victory.He also promised no small rewards for those who ran for theprizes in chariot races, when they were drawn by two, or three,or four pair of horses. He also imitated every thing, thoughnever so costly or magnificent, in other nations, out of an am­bition that he might give most public demonstration of his gran­deur. Inscriptions also of the great actions of Caesar, and tro­phies of those nations which he had conquered in his wars, andtdl made of the purest gold and silver, encompassed the theatreitself: Nor was there any thing that could be subservient to hisdesign, whether it were precious garments, or precious stonesset in order, which was not also exposed to sight in these games.He had also made a great preparation of wild beasts, and oflions themselves in great abundance, and of such other beasts aswere either of uncommon strength, or of such a sort as wererarely seen. These were prepared either to fight with one ano­ther, or that men who were condemned to death, were to fightwith them. And truly foreigners were greatly surprised anddelighted at the vastness of the expenses here exhibited, and atthe great dangers that were here seen; * but to natural Jews; * These grand plays and shows, and thymelici, or music meetings, and chariotraces, when the chariots were drawn by two, three, or four pair of horses, &c. insti­tuted hy Herod in his theatres, were still, as we see here, looked on by the soberJews as heathenish sports, and tending to corrupt the manners of the Jewish nation,