OCR Output 266 WARS OF THE JEWS; Book T< heard from others that his brother was seized ; and Alexandra**the shrewdest woman in the world, Hyrcanus's daughter, beggedof him that he would not go out, nor trust himself to those bar­barians, who now were come to make an attempt upon himopenly. 7. Now, as Pacorus and his friends were considering howthey might bring their plot to bear privately, because it was notpossible to circumvent a man of so great prudence, by openlyattacking him, Herod prevented them, and went off with the per­sons that were the most nearly related to him by night, and thiswithout their enemies being apprised of it. But, as soon as theParthians perceived it, they purfued after them, and, as he gaveorders for his mother, and sister, and the young woman who wasbetrothed to him, with her mother, and his youngest brother, tomake the best of their way, he himself, with his fervants, tookall the care'they could to keep off the barbarians ; and when, atevery assault, he had slain a great many of them, he came tothe strong hold of Masada. 8. Nay, he found by experience that the Jews fell more hea.vily upon him than did the Parthians, and created him troublesperpetually, and this ever since he was gotten sixty furlongsfrom the city; these sometimes brought it to a sort of a regularbattle. Now, in the place where Herod beat them, and killed agreat number of them, there he afterward built a citadel, in me­mory of the great actions he did there, and adorned it with themost costly palaces, and erected very strong fortifications, andcalled it from his own name Herodium. Now, as they were intheir flight, many joined themselves to him every day ; and, at aplace called Thressa of Idumea, his brother Joseph met him, andadvised him to ease himself of a great number of his followers;because Masada would not contain so great a multitude, whichwere above nine thousand. Herod complied with this advice,and sent away the most cumbersome part of his retinue, that theymight go into Idumea, and gave them provisions for their jour­ney ; but he got safe to the fortress with his nearest relations,and retained Wlthjhitn only the stoutest of his followers; and thereit was that he left eight hundred of his men as a guard for thewomen, and provisions sufficient for a siege, but he made hastehimself to Petra of Arabia. 9. As for the Parthians in Jerusalem, they betook themselvesto plundering, arid fell upon the houses of those that were fled,and upon the king's palace, and spared nothing but Hyrcanus'smoney, which was not above three hundred talents. They lightef other men's money also, but not of so much as they hoped for; for« Mariamne here, in the copies.