OCR Output 380 ROMAN EMPIRE. introduced to the tent of that venerable commanderHe received and dismissed them with courtesy. "Theyreturned with a written agreement, on the faith of acompanion of Mahomet, that all hostilities should cease;that the voluntary emigrants might depart in safety, withas much as they could carry away of their effects; andthat the tributary subjects of the caliph should enjoytheir lands and houses, with the use and possession ofseven churches. On these terms, the most respectablehostages, and the gate nearest to his camp, were deli­vered into his hands: his soldiers imitated the modera­tion of their chief; and he enjoyed the submissive gra­titude of a people whom. he had rescued from destruction.But the success of the treaty had relaxed their vigilance,and in the same moment the opposite quarter of thecity was betrayed and taken by assault. A party of ahundred Arabs had opened the eastern gate to a moreinexorable foe. No quarter (cried the rapacious andsanguinary Caled), no quarter to the enemies of the Lord.His trumpets sounded, and a torrent of Christian bloodwas poured down the streets of Damascus. When hereached the church of St. Mary, he was astonished andprovoked by the peaceful aspect of his companions; theirswords were in the scabbard, and they were surroundedby a multitude of priests and monks.—Abu Obeidahsaluted the general; God (said he) has delivered the cityinto my hands by way of surrender, and has saved the be­lievers the trouble of fighting.—And am I not (repliedthe indignant Caled), am I not the lieutenant of the com­mander of the faithful? Have I not taken the city bystorm? The unbelievers shall perish by the stvord. Fallon. The hungry and cruel Arabs would have obeyedthe welcome command; and Damascus was lost, if thebenevolence of Abu Obeidah had not been supported bya decent and dignified firmness. Throwing himself be­tween the trembling citizens and the most eager of thebarbarians, he adjured them by the holy name of God,