OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 87 the women and priests to the gates of the camp, and sub­jected the rabble of soldiers once more to the iron yoke ofthe old military discipline; and, when censor (612), he 142.cleared away the smooth-chinned coxcombs among thenobles, and in earnest language urged the citizens to adheremore faithfully to the honest customs of their fathers. Butno one, and least of all he himself, could fail to see thatincreased stringency in the administration of justice andisolated interference were not even first steps towards thehealing of the organic evils under which the state laboured.These Scipio did not touch. Gaius Laelius (consul in 614), 140.Scipio's elder friend and his political instructor and confi­dant, had conceived the plan of proposing the confiscationof the Italian domain land which had not been given awaybut had been provisionally occupied, and of giving relief byits distribution to the visibly decaying Italian farmers; butlie desisted from the project when he saw what a storm hewas going to raise, and was thenceforth named the "judi­cious." Scipio was of the same opinion. He was fullypersuaded of the greatness of the evil, and with a couragedeserving of honour he, without respect of persons, remorse­lessly assailed it and carried his point where he risked him­self alone; but he was also persuaded that the countrycould only be relieved at the price of a revolution similar tothat which in the fourth and fifth centuries had sprung outof the question of reform, and, rightly or wrongly, theremedy seemed to him worse than the disease. So with thesmall circle of his friends he held a middle position betweenthe aristocrats, who never forgave him for his advocacyof the Cassian law, and the democrats, whom he neithersatisfied nor wished to satisfy; solitary during his life, praisedafter his death by both parties, now as the championof the aristocracy, now as the promoter of reform. Downto his time the censors on laying down their office had calledupon the gods to grant greater power and glory to the state;the censor Scipio prayed that they might deign to preservethe state. His whole confession of faith lies in that painfulexclamation. But, where the man who had twice led the Roman army Tiberiusfrom deep disorganization to victory despaired, a youth with- Gracchus-oat achievements had the boldness to give himself forth asthe saviour of Italy. He was called Tiberius SemproniusGracchus (591-621). His father who bore the same name 163-133.