OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 57 voke the jEtolians, who were ever well inclined toembrace an opportunity of sallying out from theirworks. They did not know that Sulpicius, with fifteenships, had come over from Naupactus to Cyllene. andlanding four thousand soldiers, had, in the dead ofnight, lest his march should be observed, thrown him­self into Elis. When therefore they perceived, amongthe yEtolians and Eleans, the Roman standards andarms, an appearance so unexpected filled them withthe greatest terror. At first the king had a mind toorder a retreat, but the jEtolians being already en­gaged with the Trallians, a tribe of Illyrians so called,and his party appearing to have the worst of the con­test, he himself, at the head of his cavalry, made acharge on a Roman cohort. Here the horse of Philip,being pierced through with a spear, threw him forwardover his head to the ground, which gave rise to a fu­rious conflict between the contending parties; the Ro­mans pressing hard on the king, and his own men pro­tecting him. His own behavior on the occasion wasremarkably brave, although he was obliged to fight onfoot, among squadrons of cavalry. In a short time,the dispute becoming unequal, great numbers beingkilled and wounded near him, he was forced away byhis soldiers, and, mounting another horse, fled from thefield. He pitched his camp that day at the distance offive miles from the city of Elis; and, on the next, ledall his forces to a fort called Pyrgus, where, as he hadheard, a multitude of the country people with theircattle had run together through fear of being plun­dered. This irregular and unarmed crowd were soutterly dismayed at his approach, that he at once madehimself master of the whole, and by this seizure gainedcompensation for whatever disgrace he had sustainedat Elis. While he was distributing the spoil and pri­soners, the latter amounting to four thousand men,and the cattle of all kinds to twenty thousand, newsarrived from Macedonia that a person called Eropushad, by bribing the commander of the garrison andcitadel, gained possession of Lychnidus; that he had