OCR Output 454 ROMAN EMPIRE. / know his features (he exclaimed with indignation);I assert his innocence; and I imprecate the same, ajuster,fate against the authors of his death. The age anddespair of Musa raised him above the power of kings;and he expired at Mecca of the anguish of a brokenheart. His rival was more favourably treated: his ser­vices were forgiven; and Tarik was permitted to minglewith the crowd of slaves.0 I am ignorant whethercount Julian was rewarded with the death which hedeserved indeed, though not from the hands of the Sa­racens; but the tale of their ingratitude to the sons ofWitizais disproved by the most unquestionable evidence.The two royal youths were reinstated in the private pa­trimony of their father; but on the decease of Elba theelder, his daughter was unjustly despoiled of her portionby the violence of her uncle Sigebut. The Gothic maidpleaded her cause before the caliph Hasheim, andobtained the restitution of her inheritance; but she wasgiven in marriage to a noble Arabian, and their twosons, Isaac and Ibrahim, were received in Spain withthe consideration that was due to their origin and riches.Prosperity ^- prov™ce is assimilated to the victoriousof Spain state by the introduction of strangers and the under the . . .' ~~! , . Arabs, imitative spirit of the natives; and Spain, whichhad been successively tinctured with Punic, and Roman,and Gothic, blood, imbibed, in a few generations, thename and manners of the Arabs. The first conquerors,and the twenty successive lieutenants of the caliphs,were attended by a numerous train of civil and militaryfollowers, who preferred a distant fortune to a narrowhome: the private and public interest was promoted bythe establishment of faithful colonies; and the cities ofSpain were proud to commemorate the tribe or country e I much regret our loss, or my ignorance, of two Arabic works of the serentacentury, a life of Musa, and a poem on the exploits of Tarik. Of these authenticpieces, the former was composed by a grandson of Musa, who had escaped fromthe massacre of his kindred; the latter by the vizier of the first Abdah-auauacaliph of Spain, who might have conversed with some of the veterans of the con­queror. ( Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. '1. p. 3t;. 139.)