OCR Output 42 THE SUBJECT COUNTHIES. [Book IV. arrived from the Thessalians, announcing that the pretenderhad advanced into their territory; the Roman commissionerNasica, who, in the expectation that a mere remonstrancewould put an end to the foolish enterprise, had been sent bythe senate to Macedonia without soldiers, was obliged tocall out the Achaean and Pergamene troops and to protectThessaly against the superior force by means of the149. Achaeans, as far as was practicable, till (605 ?) the praetorJuventius appeared with a legion. The latter attacked theMacedonians with his small force; but he himself fell, bisarmy was almost wholly destroyed, and the greater part ofThessaly fell into the power of the Pseudo-Philip, who con­ducted his government there and in Macedonia with crueltyVictory of and arrogance. At length a stronger Roman army underMetellus. Quintus Caecilius Metellus appeared on the scene ofconflict, and, supported by a Pergamene fleet, advanced intoMacedonia. In the first cavalry combat the Macedoniansretained the superiority ; but soon dissensions and desertionsoccurred in the Macedonian army, and the blunder of thepretender in dividing his army and detaching half of it toThessaly procured for the Romans an easy and decisive148. victory (606). Philip fled to the chieftain Byzes in Thrace,whither Metellus followed him and after a second victoryobtained his surrender.Province of The four Macedonian confederacies had not voluntarilyMacedonia, submitted to the pretender, but had yielded only to force.According to the policy hitherto pursued there was thereforeno reason for depriving the Macedonians of the shadow ofindependence which the battle of Pydna had still left tothem; nevertheless the kingdom of Alexander was now, byorder of the senate, converted by Metellus into a Eomanprovince. This case clearly showed that the Romangovernment had changed its system, and had resolved tosubstitute the relation of subjection for that of dependence;and accordingly the suppression of the four Macedonianconfederacies was felt throughout the whole range of theclient-states as a blow directed against all. The possessionsin Epirus which were formerly after the first Romanvictories detached from Macedonia—the Ionian Islands andthe ports of Apollonia and Epidamnus (ii. 74, 277), thathad hitherto been under the jurisdiction of the Italianmagistrates—were now reunited with Macedonia, so that thelatter, probably as early as this period, reached on the north­