OCR Output LARISSA. LARIX. retreat of the Ten Thousand Greeks. It appears tohave been situated a little to the north of the junctionof the Lycus (Z<tb) and the Tigris. Xenophon<loseril)cs it as a deserted city, formerly built by theMedes, with a wall 25 feet broad, and 100 high,and extending in circumference two parasangs. Tin:wall itself was constructed of bricks, but had afoundation of stone, 20 feet in height (probably acasing in stone over the lower portion of the bricks).He adds, that when the Persians conquered theModes, they were not at first able to take this city,hut at last captured it. during a dense fog. Adjoin­ing the town was a pyramid of stone, one plethronbroad, and two plethra in height. It has been con­jectured that this was the bite of the city of Resen,mentioned in Genesis (x. 12); and there can belittle doubt, that these ruins represent those ofNimrud, now 50 well known by the excavationswhich Mr. L ivard lias conducted. [^"0 LARISSA (i\dpt(T-ra), a city of Syria, placed byPtolemy in the district of Cassiotis, in which An-tiiicli was situated (v. 15. § 16), but probably iden­tical with the place of the same name which,according to Strabo, was reckoned to Apamia (xvi.p. 572), and which is placed in the Itineraryof Antoninus 10 M. P. from Apamia, on the roadto Kniesa. D'Anville identifies it with the mo­dern Kalant Shyzor, 011 tiie left bank of theOfOiites, between JI amah and Kalaat el-Mtdgkor Apamia. [G. \\".] LAKISSUS or LARISUS, a river of Achaia.[Vol. I. p. 14, a/] LA'RIL'S LACUS (y Adpios Xluvy: Logo diComo), one of tlie largest of the great lakes ofNorthern Italy, situated at the foot of the Alps, andfirmed by the river Addua, (Strab. iv, p. 192;Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) It is of a peculiar form, longand narrow, but divided in its southern portion intotwo great arms or brandies, forming a kind of fork.The S\Y\ of these, at the extremity of which issituated the city of Como, has no natural outlet;the Addua, which carries off the superfluous watersof the lake, flowing from its SE. extremity, wherestands the modern town of Lecco. Virgil, where heis speaking of the great lakes of Northern Italy,gives to tlie Larius the epithet of "maxiinus"{Geoff/, ii, 15*j); and Senilis, in his note on thepassage, tells us that, according to Cato, it was60 miles long. Tins estimate, though greatlyoverrated, seems to have acquired a sort of tra­ditionary authority: it is repeated by Cassiodorus{Var. Ep. xi. 14), and even in the Itinerary ofAntoninus (p. 278), and is at tlie present daystill a prevalent notion among the boatmen on thelake. The real distance from Como to tlie head ofthe lake does not exceed 27 Italian, or 34 Romanmiles, to which five or six more may be added forthe distance by water to Rica, the Logo di Hintbeing often regarded as only a portion of the largerlake. Strabo, therefore, is not far from the truth inestimating tlie Larius as 300 stadia (37} Romanmile>) in length, and 30 in breadth. (Strab. iv.p. 209.) But it is only in a few places that it at­tain-, this width; and, owing to its inferior breadth,it is really much smaller than the Henaeus {Logodi Gardu) or Verbanus {Lago Maggiort). Itswaters are of great depth, and surrounded on allsides by hidi mountains, rising in many placesvery abruptly from the shore: notwithstanding whichtheir lower slopes were clothed in ancient times, asthey btill arc at the present day, with rich groves of olives, and afforded space for ntimerTtlltt.Among these (he most celebrated are those of tlxyounger Pliny, who was himself a native ofC<>rnum,and whose paternal estate was situated on the banluof the lake, of which last he always speaks withaffection as ''Larius noster." {Ep. ii. 8, vl 24,vii. 11.) Hut, besides this, he had two villas of amore ornamental character, of which he gives someaccount in his letters {Ep. ix. 7): the one situa'edon a lofty promontory projecting out into the watersof the lake, over which it commanded a very extru­sive prospect, the other close to tlie water's edge.The description of the former would suit well withthe site of the modern Villa Serbelloni near Bellaggio;but there are not sufficient grounds upon which toidentify it. 'Hie name of Villa Plmiana i? given atthe present day to a villa about a mile beyond thevillage of Tortio (on the right side of the lake goingfrom Como), where there is a remarkable intermit­ting spring, which is also described by Pliny {Ep.iv. 30) ; but there is no reason to suppose that thiswas the site of either of his villas. Claudian brieflycharacterises the scenery of the Larius Lac us in afew line- (if. Get 319—322); and Cas&iodorus giu-san elaborate, but very accurate, description of itsbeauties The immediate banks of the lake wereadorned with villas or palaces (praetoria), abtvewhich spread, as it were, a girdle of olive wood*;over these again were vineyards, climbing up tltfsides of the mountains, the bare and rocky summitsof which rose above the thick chesnut-woods thatencircled them. Streams of water fell into the laVeon all sides, in cascades of snowy whiteness. (Ca>-fiiod. far. xi. 14.) It would be difficult to de­scribe more correctly the present aspect of the Lai*of Como. the beautiful scenery of which is thetheme of admiration of all modern travellers. Cassiodorus repeats the tale told by the elderPliny, that the course of the Addua could 1* tracedthroughout the length of the lake, with winch it didnot mix itswaters. (Plin. ii. lOo. *. 106; Cassiod.I. c.) The same fable is told of the Lacus Lemna-nus, or Lake of Geneva, and of many other lakesformed in a similar manner by the stagnation of alarge river, which enters them at one end and flowsout at the other. It is remarkable that we have DOtrace of an ancient town as existing on the ate ofthe modern Lecco, where the Addua issues from thelake. We learn, from the Itinerary of Antoninus(p. 278), that the usual course in proceeding fromCuria over the Rhaetian Alps to Mediolanum, wasto take boat at the head of the lake and proceed bywater to Coinum. This was the route by whichStilicho is represented by Claudian as pnxvedingacross the Alps (if. Get. 1. c.) ; and Cassiodorusspeaks of Coinuin as a place of great trairic of tra­vellers (/. c.) In the latter ages of the Romanempire, a fleet was maintained uj>oti the lake, tbahead-quarters of which were at Cotuum. (Aoi.&ign. ii. p. 118.) The name of Lacus Larius seems to have bc#nearly superseded in common usage by that of LaCCIComacim's, which is already found in the Itineraryas well as in Paulas Diaconus, although the lattdauthor uses also the more classical appellatKKi(/fin. Ant. I. c; P. Diac. I/ist. v. 38, 3D.) [E.H.B/ LARIX or LARICE, a place on the southerfrontier of Norieum, at the foot of the Julian Alp"and on the road from Aquileia to Lauriacum. *1 htown seems to have owed its name to the forests <larch trees which abound in that district, and its til