OCR Output SYRACUSAE. 1065 SYRACUSAE. borb oa the kite, which must otherwise hare ma-mllj interfered with tin- Athenian lines of cir- vilUuon. while the Syracusans woald naturallyit attempted to protect it, as they did that ofntrnitu, by a special outwork. Yet it in remark-.r -Jut Diodorus notices the name, and evennks of it a* a distinct quarter of the city, asnr u b. c. 466, daring the troubles which ledli t expulsion of Thrasybulus (Died. xi. 68). ItdriVolt to reconcile this with the entire bilence of: nerd ides. Tycha probably grew up after therml vail erected by Dionysius along the northernreef the plateau bad completely secured it from . ( Its position is clearly shown by the state-■ni of Livy, that Marcellus, after he had forced■ lifxspylum and scaled the heights, established • »'-ip hetvxm Tycha and Neapolis, widi the viewearning on his assaults upon Achradina. (Liv.>. 35.) It is trident therefore that the twoultra were not contiguous, but that a ronsider- • ritent of the table-land W. of Achradina was!J unoccupied. 4. Nr.Aroua (NedVoAis), or the New City,ku it* name implied, the last quarter of Syracuse*& m inhabited, though, as is often the cose,'New Town seems to have eventually grown up"one of the most splendid portions of the city,may, howerer, well be doubted whether it wasf*t more recent than Tycha ; at least it appears>: »4ne portion of Neapolis was already inhabitedlie time of the Athenian invasion, when, asml? mentioned, we have no trace of the existencei suburb at Tycha. But there was then alreadyuHurb called Temenitis, which had grown upand the sanctuary of Apollo Temenites. The: if of Apollo, who was worshipped under thisct, stood as we learn from Cicero, within theof the quarter subsequently called Neapolis;>u placed, as we may infer from Thucydides, onabove the theatre (which he calls axontwrV(t), forming a part of the table-hind, and*Wy not far from the southern escarpment offiarean. A suburb had apparently grown up:»i r, which was surrounded by the Syracusaus!• a wall just before the commencement of thev, and this outwork bears a conspicuous part in'^rations that followed. (Thuc vi. 75). But thisi: i> n uf the fortifications does not appear to • been permanent, for we find in n.c. 396 thej-rs of Ceres and the Cora, which aLso stood on the•ati not far from the statue of Apollo, describedtitoaled in a suburb of Achradina, which wasn. and the temples plundered by the Carthaginianrrai Humlco. (Diod. xir. 63.) The name of -. j (rf N*o tiJaii) is indeed already mentioned • years before (Id. xiv. 9), and it appears pro-t iWefore that the city had already begun torod itself over this quarter, though it as yet formed aa unfortified suburb. In the time of Cicero, • evident from his description, as well as from'tr.c remains, Neapolis had spread itself over theh of the southern slope of the table-land, which • forme a kind of second step or underfall, risingoierahly above the low grounds beneath, though w°;ara£ed from the heights of Temenitis by a • ^j hne of cliff or abrupt declivity. The name'• tnit is for the district on the height seems to • Wo lost, or merged in that of Neapolis, winchrradaally applied to the whole of this quarter it city. But the name was retained by the ad-gate, which was called the Temenitid Gate (Plut. Dion. 29, where there seems no doubt thatwe should read TtfitvhiZas for M« Wrioas), and seemsto have been one of the principal entrances to thecity. Of the buildings described by Cicero as existingin Neapolis, the only one still extant is the theatre,which he justly extols for its large size ("theatrummaximum," Verr. iv. 53). Diodorus also alludesto it as the largest in Sicily (xvi. 83), a remarkwhich is fully borne out by the existing remains.It is not less than 440 feet in diameter, and ap­pears to have had sixty rows of seats, so that itcould have accommodated no less than 24,000persons. The lower rows of seats were covered withslabs of white marble, and the several cuuei aremarked by inscriptions in large letters, bearing thename of king Hieron, of two queens, Phi list is andNereis, both of them historically unknown, and oftwo deities, the Olympian Zeus and Hercules, withthe epithet of Lixppwv. These inscriptions evidentlybelong to the time of llieron II., who probably deco­rated and adorned this theatre, but the edifice itselfis certainly referable to a much earlier period, pro­bably as early as the reign of the elder Hieron. Itwas used not merely for theatrical exhibitions, butfor the assemblies of the people, which are repeatedlyalluded to as being held in it (Diod. xiii. 94; Plut.Dion, 38, Ttmol 34, 38, &c), as was frequentlythe case in other cities of Greece. The theatre, asoriginally constructed, must have been outside thewalls of the city, but this was not an unusual ar­rangement. Near the theatre have been discovered the re­mains of another monument, expressly mentioned byDiodorus as constructed by king Hieron in thatsituation, an altar raised on steps and a platformnot less than 640 feet in length by 60 in breadth(Diod. xiv. 83). A little lower down are the re­mains of an amphitheatre, a structure which un­doubtedly belongs to the Roman colony, and wasprobably constructed soon after its establishment byAugustus, as we find incidental mention of gladia­torial exhibitions taking place there in the reignsof Tiberius and Nero (Tac. slnn. xiii. 49; Val. Max.i. 7. § 8). It was of considerable ai/.c, the arena,which is the only part of which the dimensions canbe distinctly traced, being somewhat lareer than thatof Verona. No traces have been discovered of thetemples of Ceres and Libera or Proserpine on theheight above : the colossal statue of Apollo Teme­nites had apparently no temple in connection withit, though it had of course its altar, as well as itssacred enclosure or Tintvos, The statue itself,which Verres was unable to remove on account ofits large size, was afterwards transported to Kuinaby Tiberius (Suet Til. 74). Immediately adjoining the theatre are extensivequarries, similar in character to those already mm*tioned in the cliffs of Achradina. The quarries ofSyracuse (Latomiae or Lautumiae) are indeed fre­quently mentioned by ancient authors, and especiallynoticed by Cicero among the most remarkable objectsin the city. (Cic. Verr. t. 27; Aelian, V.ti. xii.44.) There can be no doubt that they were ori­ginally designed merely as quarries for the extractionof the soft limestone of which the whole table-landconsists, and which makes an excellent buildingstone; but from the manner in which they wereworked, being sunk to a considerable depth, withoutany outlet on a level, they were found places of suchsecurity, that from an early period they were era­