OCR Output Chap. XIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 305 the multitude eomply with those orders, but were so embold­ened by their foregoing victory, that they presently attackedthe Arabians, and beat them at the first onset, and then pursu­ed them; yet were there snares laid for Herod in that pursuit}while Athenio, who was one of Cleopatra's'generals, and al­ways an antagonist to Herod, sent out of Kanatha the men ofthat country against him; for, upon this fresh onset, the Ara­bians took courage, and returned back, and both joined theirnumerous forces about stoney places, that were hard to be goneover, and there put Herod's men to the rout, and made a greatslaughter of them: but those that escaped out of the battle fledto Ormiza, where the Arabians surrounded their camp, andtook it, with all the men in it. 3. In a little time after this calamity, Herod came to bringthem succours; but he came too late. Now the occasion of thatblow was this, that the officers would not obey orders; for hadnot the fight began so suddenly, Athenio had not found a properseason for tbe snares he laid for Herod: however, he was evenwith the Arabians afterward, and over-run their country, anddid them more harm than their single victory could compensate.But as he was avenging himself on his enemies, there fell uponhim another providential calamity ; for in the * seventh year ofhis reign, when the war about Actium was at the height, at thebeginning of the spring, the earth was shaken, and destroyed animmense number of cattle, with thirty thousand men; but thearmy received no harm, because it lay in the open air. In themean time, the fame of this earthquake elevated the Arabians togreater courage, and thisby augmenting it to a fabulous height,as is constantly the case in melancholy accidents, and pretendingthat all Judea was overthrown; upon this supposal, therefore,'that they should easily get a landthat was destituteof inhabitantsinto their power, they first sacrificed those ambassadors who werecome to them from the Jews, and then marched into Judea im­mediately. Now the Jewish nation were affrighted at this in­vasion, andquite dispiritedatthegreatnessoftheircalamities oneafter another; whom yet Herod got together, and endeavoured to * Th's seventh year of the reign of Herod [from the conquests or death of An-tigonus],-with the great earthquake in the beginning of the same spring, whichare here fully implied to be not much before the fight at Actium, between Ocuviusand Antony, and which is known from the Roman historians to have been in thebeginning of September, in the 3151 year before the Christian sra, determines thechronology of Joessphus as to the reign of Herod, viz' that he began in the year ^ 7,beyond rational contradiction. Nor is it quite unworthy of our notice, that thi§seventh year of the reign of Herod, or the jlst before the Christian jera, con­tained the latter part of a Sabbatic year; on which Sabbatic year, therefore, it isplain this great earthquake happened in Judea. VOL. III.