OCR Output an. 599.] 367 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the kingdom by Jehoiachin, whose motherwas Nehusta; a citizen of Jerusalem. Hereigned three months and ten days. CHAP. VII. OF THE DEPOSITION OF JEHOIACHIN BY THE BABYLONIANS;THE SUCCESSION OF ZEDEKIAH J AND IMPRISONMENT OFTHE PROPHET JEREMIAH. AFTER the king of Babylon had giventhe kingdom to Jehoiachin, he re­pented of what he had done; fearing lest hemight excite a revolt, to revenge the deathof his father.* He therefore sent an army,and besieged Jehoiachin in Jerusalem.f Butbecause he was of a gentle and just disposi­tion,J ne did not desire to see the city en­dangered on his account; but he took hismother, and kindred, and delivered them tothe commanders sent by the king of Babylon,and accepted of their oaths, that neithershould they nor the city suffer any harm.This agreement, however, was not observedfor a single year; for the king of Babylongave orders to his generals to take all thatwere in the city captives; both the youth,and the handicraft men, and bring thembound to him: their number was ten thou­sand, eight hundred, and thirty-two; as alsoJehoiachin, and his mother and friends. Andwhen these were brought to him, he keptthem in custody, and appointed Jehoiachin's uncle, Zedekiah, to be king; and made himtake an oath, that he would certainly keepthe kingdom for him, and make no innovation,nor have any league of friendship with theEgyptians. Now Zedekiah was twenty-one years oldwhen he took the government; and had thesame mother with his brother Jehoiakim;but he was a despiser of justice, and of hisduty. And those of the same age with himwere wicked about him; and the whole mul­titude did what unjust and insolent thingsthey pleased. For this reason the prophetJeremiah came often to him, and insisted,that he must leave off his impieties and trans­gressions; and take care of what was right;and neither give ear to the rulers-, amongwhom were wicked men; nor give credit totheir false prophets, who deluded them, as ifthe king of Babylon would make no morewar against them; and as if the Egyptianswould make war against him, and conquerhim; since what they said was not true, andthe events would not prove such as they ex­pected. Now as to Zedekiah himself, whilehe heard the prophet speak, he believedhim, and agreed to every thing as true; andsupposed it was for his advantage. But thenhis friends perverted him, and dissuaded himfrom what the prophet advised, and obligedhim to do what they pleased.|| Ezekiel alsoforetold in Babylon what calamities were * It is very probable that Nebuchadnezzar heard thathe had entered into a confederacy with the king of Egypt,as his successor did; and therefore sent an army againsthim, in the very beginning of his reign, to lay siege toJerusalem, against which he intended to come himself:but the Jews have a conceit, that Nebuchadnezzar'scounsellors represented to him, how unadvisedly he actedin making him king whose father had been in rebellionagainst him, and that upon their representation, he re­solved to depose him. From an ill dog there never comesa good whelp, was the proverb, they say, which thecounsellors made use of on this occasion; and to makethis more feasible to the father and son, they generallyapply that passage in Ezekiel, " She took another of herwhelps, and made him a young lion, and he went up anddown among the lions. He became a young lion, andlearned to catch the prey, and devour men.—Then thenations set against him on every side, from the provinces,they spread their net over him, and he was taken in theirpit," chap. xix. 6. &c. Calmet's and Patrick's Com­mentaries. B. t 2 Kings xxiv. 10. J Josephus's character of this Jehoiachin here, seemscontrary to that in 2 Kings xxiv. 19. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 9.and Jer. xxii. 28. And yet Josephus's account is con- firmed by himself elsewhere, Of the War, IV. 9. bothwhich places agree, that he was so mild, and so disposedto spare his people, that he gave up the city Jerusaleminto the hands of the Babylonians, upon their oath to dothe people no harm without opposition: which good willto his people he greatly celebrates in the place last quoted.Perhaps Josephus chose to omit his idolatrous conduct inso short a reign; and to celebrate this humane dispositiononly, without any contradiction of his copy to ours. Corn-pure his character of Zedekiah at first, with that a littleafter. II The words in the text according to our translation,are—The word which Jeremiah the prophet commandedSeraiah the son of Neriah, &c. when he went with Zede­kiah, the king of Judah, into Babylon, in the fourth yearof his reign. And this Seraiah was a quiet prince, Jer. li.59. and from hence some Hebrew interpreters infer, thatZedekiah went to Babylon in the fourth year of his reignto make his court, and cultivate the good graces of hispatron and paramount Nebuchadnezzar. But this opinion,though followed by several, has no foundation in anyother part of Scripture; and the passage now before us,may, according to the original, be very properly renderedin this wise.—The word which Jeremiah commandedSeraiah, when he went to Babylon upon an embassy from