OCR Output 396 ROMAN EMPIRE. the camp of their brethren, they found the pleasing in­telligence, that Caled had already defeated and scatteredthe Christian Arabs of the tribe of Gassan. In theneighbourhood of Bosra, the springs of mount Hermondescend in a torrent to the plain of Decapolis, or tencities; and the Hieromax, a name which has been cor­rupted to Yermuk, is lost after a short course in the lakeof Tiberias.0 The banks of this obscure stream were il­lustrated by a long and bloody encounter. On this mo­mentous occasion, the public voice, and the modesty ofAbu Obediah, restored the command to the most de­serving of the Moslems. Caled assumed his station inthe front, his colleague was posted in the rear, that thedisorder of the fugitives might be checked by his vene­rable aspect and the sight of the yellow banner whichMahomet had displayed before the walls of Chaibar.The last line was occupied by the sister of Derar, withthe Arabian women who had enlisted in this holy war,who were acccustomed to wield the bow and the lance,and who in a moment of captivity had defended, againstthe uncircumcised ravishers, their chastity and religion/The exhortation of the general was brief and forcible.Paradise is before you, the devil and hell-fire in your rear.Yet such was the weight of the Roman cavalry, that theright wing of the Arabs was broken and separated fromthe main body. Thrice did they retreat in disorder, andthrice were they driven back to the charge by the re­proaches and blows of the women. In the intervals ofaction, Abu Obeidah visited the tents of his brethren, -prolonged their repose by repeating at once the prayersof two different hours; bound up their wounds with his » See Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 272. 283. torn. 2. p. 773.775. This learnrdprofessor was equal to the task of describing the Holy Land, since be was alikeconversant with Greek and Latin, with Hebrew and Arabian literature. TheYermuk, or Hieromax, is noticed by Cellarius (Geograph. Antiq. torn. 2. p. 39?.)and d'Anville. (Geographic Ancienne, torn. 2. p. 185.) The Arabs, and evenAbulfeda himself, do not seem to recognize the scene of their victory. f These women were of the tribe of the Hamyarites.'who derived their originfrom the ancient Amalekites. Their females were accustomed to ride on horseback,and to fight like the Amazons of old. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 67.)