OCR Output 408 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. named by the side of the Thasian and Chian, and the121. "Opimian wine" of 633, the most famous Romanvintage, was long remembered after the last jar was ex­hausted.Trades Of trades and manufactures there is nothing to be said, except that the Italian nation in this respect persevered inan inactivity bordering on barbarism. They destroyed theCorinthian factories, the depositaries of so many valuableindustrial traditions—not however that they might establishsimilar factories for themselves, but that they might buyup at extravagant prices such Corinthian vases of earthen­ware or copper and similar " antique works" as were pre­served in Greek houses. The trades that were still somewhatprosperous, such as those connected with building, were pro­ductive of hardly any benefit for the commonwealth, becausehere too the system of employing slaves interposed in everymore considerable undertaking: in the construction ofthe Marcian aqueduct, for instance, the government con­cluded contracts at once for building and materials with3000 master-tradesmen, each of whom then performed thework contracted for with his band of slaves.Money- The most brilliant, or rather the only brilliant, side of dealing and Roman private economics was money-dealing and commerce<commerce. First of all stood the leasing of the domains and of thetaxes, through which a large, perhaps the larger part of theincome of the Roman state flowed into the pocket of theRoman capitalists. The money-dealings, moreover, through­out the range of the Roman state were monopolized by theRomans; every penny circulated in Gaul, it is said in awriting issued soon after the end of this period, passesthrough the books of the Roman merchants, and so it wasdoubtless everywhere. The co-operation of a rude economiccondition and of the unscrupulous employment of Rome'spolitical ascendancy for the benefit of the private interestsof every wealthy Roman rendered a usurious system ofinterest universal, as is shown for example by the treat­ment of the war-tax imposed by Sulla on the province of84. Asia in 670, which the Roman capitalists advanced; itswelled with paid and unpaid interest within fourteen yearsto sixfold its original amount. The communities had to selltheir public buildings, their works of art and jewels, parentshad to sell their grown-up children, in order to meet theclaims of the Roman creditor: it was no rare occurrence