OCR Output Chap. VII.] THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS. 227 and Etruria, in which the class of free farmers had mostly dis­appeared, while in others, such as the valleys of the Abruzzi,the same class still maintained a tolerable footing or wasalmost unaffected—just as a similar diversity could be pointedout in the different Roman tribes. On the other hand, thepolitical inferiority of Italy was daily more harshly andmore abruptly displayed. No formal open breach of rightindeed occurred, at least in the principal questions. Thecommunal freedom, which under the name of sovereignty wasaccorded by treaty to the Itahan communities, was on thewhole respected by the Roman government; the attack, whichthe Roman reform party at the commencement of the agra­rian agitation made on the Roman domains guaranteed to themore privileged communities, had not only been earnestlyopposed by the strictly conservative as well as by the middleparty in Rome, but had been very soon abandoned by theRoman opposition itself. But the rights, which belongedand could not but belong to Rome as the leading community—the supreme conduct of war-affairs, and the superintend­ence of the whole administration,—were exercised in a way Disabilitieswhich was almost as bad as if the allies had been directly de- and wrongsclared to be subjects without rights. The numerous modifi- ?f tlie sub"cations of the fearfully severe Roman martial law, which jecwere introduced at Rome in the course of the seventh cen­tury, seem to have remained wholly limited to the Romanburgess-soldiers: this is certain as to the most important,the abolition of executions by martial law (P. 112), and wemay easily conceive the impression which was produced when,as happened in the Jugurthine war, esteemed Latin officers'were beheaded by sentence of the Roman council of war,while the lowest burgess-soldier had the right in the likecase of presenting an appeal to the civil tribunals of Rome.The proportions in which the burgesses and Italian allieswere to be drawn for military service had, as was fair, re­mained undefined by treaty; but, while in earlier times thetwo had furnished on an average equal numbers of soldiers(i. 112,351), now, although the proportions of the populationhad changed probably in favour of the burgesses rather thanto their disadvantage, the demands on the allies were bydegrees increased disproportionately (i. 436, ii. 333), sothat on the one hand they had the chief burden of theheavier and more costly service imposed on them, and onthe other band there were two allies now regularly levied r