OCR Output SECOND VOLUME. 337 sents Jupiter estaUfffied In himself, while the multitude of godsthat proceed from him, at one time abide with their parent, andat another proceed into the universe, and providentially energizeabout mundane affairs. And this appears to be the meaning ofthe other fable. Pausanias, therefore, is very right in conjectur足ing that these sables respecting Saturn contain something of thewisdom of the Greeks; for they arc indeed replete with thefublimest wisdom, as the intelligent reader will easily perceive. Page 269. Homer."] Iliad 2. v. 231. and Iliad 12.V. 202, Sec. Page 294. Hesiod'indeedin his Theogony mates mention of Styx.]The lines alluded to in the Theogony are 383, &c. It appearsto me that Styx, considered according to its first subsistence, isthe cause by which divine natures retain an immutable samenessof essence. It is somewhat strange that Pausanias should bedubious whether Hesiod composed the Theogony, when it iicited as the production of Hesiod by Plato and Aristotle. Page 295. Homer.] The passage respecting the oath of Junois Iliad 15. v. 36; concerning Titaresius, Iliad 2. v. 755 ; andconcerning the preservation of Hercules by Minerva, Iliad 4.v. 366. Page 299. Homer."] Homer in the eleventh Iliad uses the wordMXhSvmhi 1. e. Lucina. Page 300. That Jhe is the fame with Pepromene or Faie.] Pin足dar, in his seventh Nemcan Ode, says that Lucina is the assessorof the Fates: and this is agreeable to the doctrine in the Orphichymns. For the moon, or Diana, is according to these hymnsthe fame with Lucina: and in the hymn to Nature, which, as wehave before shewn, principally flourishes in the moon, that god足dess is expressly called Pepromene. Page 309. Homer.'] Iliad 24. v. 527. By the two vessels placed by the throne of Jupiter, out ofwhich he distributes good and evil to mankind, we must under足stand the two primary causes of good and evil to fouls, whichsubsist in the intellect of Jupiter. I only add, that a truly wor- Vol. III. Z' thy