OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 227 been enabled to unfold the leading particulars of this interestingaffair. These particulars the reader may find in my Dissertationon the Elcustnian and Bacchic Myjleries. Page 41. Near this is the temple of Celejlial Venus,,] The Celes­tial Venus (for there are two Venufes, as is well known) is thatdivine power which collects together the different genera ofthings, according to one desire of beauty. She is therefore veryproperly said to derive her subsistence from the prolific power ofHeaven: for Heaven, as I have (hewn in my notes on the Craty-lus, composes that order of gods which is called by the ChaldseartTheologists rouTo; voijoc, i. e. intelligible and at the fame timcintcl-leftual; which corresponds to intelligence; and is wholly of acontaining and conn :8ive nature. "But the second Venus, faysProclus (in Schol. MSS. in Cratylum), Jupiter produces from,his own generative powers, in conjunction with Dione: and thisgoddess likewise proceeds from foam, after the fame mannerwith the more ancient Venus, as Orpheus evinces. But thesegoddesses differ from each other, according to the causes of theirproduction, their orders and their powers. For she that pro­ceeds from the genitals of Heaven is supermundane, leads up­wards to intelligible beauty, is the supplier of an unpolluted'life, and separates from generation. But the Venus that pro­ceeds from Dione governs all the co-ordinations in the celestialworld and the earth, binds them to each other, and perfects theirgenerative progressions, through a kindred conjunction. These .divinities too are united with each other, through a similitude ofsubsistence: for they both proceed from generative powers; onefrom that of the containing power of Heaven, and the otherfrom that of Jupiter the artificer of the world." He adds,"that by the sea we must understand an expanded and circum­scribed life; by its profundity, the universally-extended progres­sion of such a life; and by the foam, the greatest purity ofnatute, that which is full of prolific light and power, that whichswims upon all life, and is as it were its highest flower." Qj." It «