OCR Output 302 MEDIA. MEDIOLANUM. is, that the Ma^i were a priest-class among theMedian people; tint, like the Achaeinenidae in Persia,a distinct or dominant tribe. (Cf. Strab. xvi. p. 962;Cic. Divht. i. 41 j Porpliyr. Abstinent. 4. 16, &c.)In other authors we find the following people**counted among the inhabitants of Media, though itmay be doubted whether some of them do uot moreproperly belong to one or more of the adjacentnations. the Sagartii, Tapyri or Tapyrrhi, MatianiCaspii, Cadusii, Gelae, and the Mardi or Amardi.(See these under their respective names.) Herodotusproceeds to state that originally the Medes were afree people, who lived in separate villages, but thatat length they chose for themselves a king in theperson of Deioces, who built the celebrated city ofKcbatana [Eobatama], and was succeeded byl'hraortes and Cyaxares (i. 95—103). The reignof the fonner was, he adds, terminated by a defeatwhich he sustained (at Khages, Judith, i. 15); while,during the commencement of that of the lutter, allWestern Asia was overrun by a horde of Scythians(i. 103). There can be no doubt that for awhilethey were subject to, and formed a satrapy of, theAssyrian empire, as stated by Diodorus (ii. 2); thatthen they threw off the Assyrian yoke, as 6tated byHerodotus (i. 106), and were ruled over by a seriesof kings of their own for a long period. (Cf. Strab.xi. p. 524.) Tho order and the names of theserulers are differently stated; and it would be out ofplace here to discuss at length one of the most dif­ficult and disputed points of ancient chronology.(Cf., however, Diod. ii. 24, 32; Herod, i. 95; andKuseb. Chron. Armen. i. 101; Clinton, Fast. Ihllen.Tol. i. p. 257, app.) It may be remarked, that inthe Bible the first notico we find of the Medes,exhibits them as the subjects of the Assyrian kingSalmaucser (2 Kings, xvii. 6), who was contem­porary with the Jewish king Hoshca; while in thelater times of Nebuchadnezzar, they appear as awarlike nation, governed by their own rulers.(Isaiah, xiii. 17; Jtrem. xxv. 25, li. 11, 28.) It isequally clear that the Medians were united to thePersians by Cyrus, and formed one empire withthem (Herod, i. 129; Diod. ii. 34; Justin, i. 6),anil hence are spoken of in the later books of theBible as a people subject to the same ruler as thePersians, (/tan, v. 28, viii. 20; Esth. i. 3, &c.)From this time forward their fute was the same asthat of the Persian monarchy; and they became insuccession subject to the Greeks, under Alexanderthe Great, to the Syro-Macedonian rulers after hisdeath, and lastly to the Parthian kings. (Cf.1 Mace vi. 56. xiv. 2; Strab. xvi. p. 745 j Joseph.Antii/. xx. 3. § 3.) Tho consent of history shows that in early timesthe Medes were held to be a very warlike race,who had a peculiar skill in the use of the bow.(Isaiiih,xiii. 18; Herod, vii.62; Xen. Anab. ii. I.§ 7;Strab. xi. p. 525,) They had al*o great knowledgeand practice in horsemanship, and were consideredin this, as in many other acquirements, to havebeen the masters of the Persians. (Strab. xv.pp. 525, 526, 531.) Hence, in the armament ofXerxes, the Medes are described as equipped simi­larly with the Persians, and Herodotus expresslystates that their dress and weapons were of Median,not Persian origin (L c). In later apes they ap­pear to have degenerated very much, and to haveadopted a luxurious fashion of life and dress (cf.Xen. Cyrop. 13. § 2 ; Strab. /. c. j Ainmian. xxiii. 6),which pasted from them to their 1'ersuo conquerors. The religion of the Medes was a system of Star-worship; their priests bearing, as we have re­marked, the name of Magi, which was oommua tothem with the Persians, indeed was probably adoptedby the latter from the fonner. (Xen. Cyr. r». S;Strab. xv. pp. 727, 735; Cic. Div. L 33.) Theprincipal object of their adoration was the Sun, andthen the Moon and the five planets, Jupiter, Yez.ua,Satum, Mercury, and Mars. [V.] MEDIAE Mt'KUS, mentioned only by nan* byXenophon, who calls it to VLnliat a-aAovfi**>orrtixos. (Anab. ii. 4. § 12.) He states thai itwas 20 parasangs in length, 100 feet high, and 20broad; and it may be inferred from bis narrativethat it was from 30 to 40 miles to the N. ofBaghdad. There can be little doubt that it wasthe same work as that called by Strabo in twoplaces to itfupituios Siartlxio-pa (ii. p. 80. xi.p. 529), and that it bad been built across the stripof land where the Tigris and Euphrates appro-stlimost nearly, as a defence to the province of Baby­lonia, which lay to the S. of it. There has beenmuch question, whether this great work can beidentified with any of the numerous mounds stillremaining in this part of Mesopotamia; but thequestion has, we think, been set at rest by thecareful survey of Lieut. Lynch, in 1837. (Hay.Oeogr. Journ. vol. ix. pp. 472, 473.) Mr. Lynch.places the end adjoining the Tigris in N. 1st. $4J3' 30", and long. 21' 50" YV. of Baghtldd. Hedescribes the existing ruins as an eiiibanknirnt orwall of lime and pebbles, having towers or buttresseson the northern or NW. face, and a wide and deepfosse; and states, that, putting his horse at its fullspeed, he galloped along it for more than an hourwithout finding any appearance of temunatiou.The natives, too, assured him that it extended lathe Euphrates. [\ J MED1AM, AD. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 744, b.1 MEDIA'XA, an imperial villa, 3 tniies (ranNaissus, in Upper Moesia. (Ann. Marc. xxvi. 5.)A town of this namo is mentioned, in the Peatiuz.Table, on the road leading through Kliarlia al> ngthe Danube, opposite to Donautctrth, and set-ma ubo the same as the modem Medinnrn. [ L- S. ] MEDIOLA'XUM, a Gallic name of towns whichoccurs in Gallia, North Italy, and Britain. 1. Mediolanum is placed in the Table balassaFomm Segustavarum (Fern) and Bodumna (Ron-anne). As to IVAntilles remarks on the positionof Mediolanum, see FoltUM Segi/siaxoki/M- ThisMediolanum is supposed to have been a town af lbsTransalpine Ishuhues, and so it is generally markedin our maps; but the existence of those TransalpineInsubres is hardly established. [Galxxa Cis.il-riSA, Vol. I. p. 936.] 2. The Table places Mediolanum between Ar-geubomagus (Argeniun) and Aquae Nerae (.Verw),The figures which have been generally considered ubelong to this road, belong to another, and so wohave no distances in the Table for this place. Me­diolanum seems to be Chaltau Median, south ofAvaricum (llouryes). A milestone found at Alt-champ between liourgts and ChiUau Mnlui*.makes the distance from Avaricum to Mtdiubv-umto be .'!9 M. P., which is not tar from list truth.(Walckenaer, Grog, dr. vol. i. p. 67.) 3. The Antoniuo Itin. places a Mtdiolasjasa oa aroad from Colonia Trajana (Ktlin) to Cotoas*Agrippina (Cologne), and 12 M. P. from CoUua lraj-uia. 11 Culuuia Trajana is rightly placed, a ■