OCR Output 224 ROMAN EMPIRE. in discipline, or in arms. The science of war has beenlost and revived with the arts of peace; but his campaignsare not illustrated by any siege or battle of singular diffi­culty or success; and he might behold, with envy, theSaracen trophies of his grandfather. After his Spanishexpedition, his rear-guard was defeated in the Pyreneanmountains; and the soldiers, whose situation was irre­trievable, and whose valour was useless, might accuse,with their last breath, the want of skill or caution of theirgeneral.* I touch with reverence the laws of Charle­magne, so highly applauded by a respectable judge. Theycompose not a system, but a series, of occasional and mi­nute edicts, for the correction of abuses, the reformationof manners, the economy of his farms, the care of hispoultry, and even the sale of his eggs. He wished toimprove the laws and the character of the Franks; andhis attempts, however feeble and imperfect, are deservingof praise: the inveterate evils of the times were suspend­ed or mollified by his government;11 but in his institu­tions I can seldom discover the general views and the im­mortal spirit of a legislator, who survives himself for thebenefit of posterity. The union and stability of his em­pire depended on the life of a single man; he imitatedthe dangerous practice of dividing his kingdoms amonghis sons; and, after his numerous diets, the whole con­stitution was left to fluctuate between the disorders ofanarchy and despotism. His esteem for the piety andknowledge of the clergy tempted him to intrust that as­piring order with temporal dominion and civil jurisdic­tion; and his son Lewis, when he was stripped and de­graded by the bishops, might accuse, in some measure,the imprudence of his father. His laws enforced the im­position of tithes, because the demons had proclaimed in ( In this action the famous Rutland, Rolando, Orlando, was slain—cum plan-tos alia. See the truth in Eginhard, (c. 9. p. 51—56.) and the fable in an inge­nious Supplement of M. Gaillard. (torn. 3. p. 474.) The Spaniards are too proud ofa victory which history ascribes to the Gascons, and Romance to the Saracens. h Yet Schmidt, from the best authorities, represents the interior disorders andoppression of his reign. (Hist, des AllemaiuU, torn. t. p. 45—49.)