OCR Output NASAVA. 401 NAUCRATIS. i». 7.) Their modem representatives are equallyinhospitable, as the traveller Bruce, who wasshipwrecked on their coast, experienced. (Bruce,Tmrfit, Introduction, vol. i. p. 131.) The Nasa-dkdcs. however, were breeders of cattle, since Hero­dotus informs us (iv. 172) that in the summer sea-ion, " thej leave their herds on the coast and go uptoAugila to gather the date harvest*1—the palmsof that oasis being numerous, large, and fruitful.And here, again, in existing races we find corre­spondences with the habits of the Nasamones. Foraccording to modern travellers, the people who dwellon the coast of Derna. gather the dates in the plainof Gtyabib. five days* journey from Augila. (Pro-teeajnat of Afric. Association, 1790, ch. x.) Herodotus describes the Nasamones as practisinga kind of hero-worship, sacrificing at the graves oftheir ancestors, and swearing by their manes. Theywere Dolrgnmists on the widest scale, or rather heldtheir women in common ; and their principal diet,roita dates, was dried locusts reduced to powder andkneaded with milk intoa kind of cake—polenta. Theirland produced also a precious stone called by Pliny(iv-.™ 10. a. 64) and Solinus (c. 27) Nasamonitis;it was of a blood red hue with black veins. Herodotus introduces his description of this tribe,with a remarkable story relating to the knowledgepossessed by the ancients of the sources of the Nile.He says (ii. 32) that certain Nasamones came fromthe neighbourhood of Cyrene, and made an expeditioninto the interior of Libya; and that they exploredthe continent as far as the kingdom of Timbuctoo, isrendered probable by his account of their adventures.For, after passing through the inhabited region, theycame to that which was infested by wild beasts;nert their course was westward through the desert(SoAdra), and finally they were taken prisoners byblack men of diminutive stature, and carried to acity washed by a great river flowing from W. to E,and abounding in crocodiles. This river, which thehistorian believed to be the upper part of the Nile,was more probably the Niger. The origin of thestory perhaps lies in the fact that the Nasamones, awandering race, acted as guides to the caravanswhich annually crossed the Libyan continent fromthe territories of Carthage to Aethiopia, Meroe, andtie forts of the Eed Sea. [W. B. D.] XASAVA (Noo-oua, of. Nao-ai!a9, Ptol. iv. 2. §9). a river of Mauritania Caesariensis, the mouth ofwhich is to the E. of Saldae. This river of Borjeiyah,is made by a number of rivulets which fall into itfrom different directions, and, as the banks are rockyand mountainous, occasion inundations in the winter.(Shaw, 7Vot. p. 90.) [E. B. J.] SASCL [Khipaei Moktks.] KASCUS (Ndffwoi, of. MaoVjccnros /MrrpcSwoAir),an inland city of Arabia Felix, in long. 81° 15',sat. 20° 40" of Ptolemy. (Ptol. vi. 7. § 35.)Mr. Forster takes it to be Ncssa of Pliny, the chieftown of the Amathei, who occupied the present dis-trietof Yemama. (Geography of Arabia, vol. ii. pp.265,267.) [G. W.] NASI. [Caphtae-j NASIUM (Ndo-ioi-), in Gallia. Ptolemy namestwo cities of the Leuci, Tullum ( Tout) and Nasium,which he places 20 minutes further south thanTuihm, and as many minutes east Both theseindications are false, as the Itins. show, for Nasium■ oo a mad from Durocortorum (Reims) to Tullum;and eunaeouently west of 7W, and it is not south.Aa old chronicle places Nasium on the Ornain or vou rt. Ornez, a branch of the Maas; and its name existsiu Naix or AfaiV, above Ligny. The Antonine Itin.makes it 16 leagues from Nasiftm to Tullum. TheTable places Ad Fines between Nasium and Tullum,14 leagues from Nasium and 5J from Tullum. [Asto Ad Fines, see Fines, No. 14.] [G. L.] NASUS. [Okhiadae.] NAT1S0 (Not/o-bk, Strab.: Natisone), a riverof Venetia, which flowed under the walls of Aqui-leia, on the E. side of the city, and is noticed inconnection with that city by all the geographers aswell as by several other ancient writers. (Plin. iii.18. s. 22; Strab. v. p. 214; Mela, ii. 4. § 3; Ptol.iii. 1. § 26; Ammian. xxi. 12. § 8; Jornand. (Jet.42.) Pliny speaks of the Xatiso together with thoTurrus (Natiso cum Turro), as flowing by the co­lony of Aqnileia. At the present day the Natisone,a considerable stream which descends from the Alpsnear Cividak, falls into the Torre (evidently theTurrus of Pliny), and that again into the homo;so that neither of them now flows by Aquileia; butit is probable that they have changed their course,which the low and marshy character of the countryrenders easy. A small stream, or rather canal, com­municating from Aquiieia with the sea, is still calledNatita; but it is clear that the Natis.-a of Jor-nandes, which he describes (I. c.) as flowing underthe walls of Aquileia, must be the far more impor­tant stream, now called the Natisone, as he tells usit had its sources in the Mons Picis, and it wouldbe vain to look for any mountains nearer than thoAlps. Strabo (7. c.) also speaks of the Natiso asnavigable for ships of burden as far as Aquileia, 60stadia from the sea; a statement which renders itcertain that a considerable river must have flowedunder the walls of that city. [K. H. B.] NAVA, the river Nava in Tacitus (Hist iv. 70)and in Ausonius (Moiella, v. 1) is the Nahe, asmall stream which flows into the Rhine, on the leftbank just below Bingium (Bingen). [G. L.] NAVA'LIA or NABA'LIA (NouoAfo), a smallriver on the north-west coast of Germany (Tac.Hist. v. 26), either an eastern branch of the Rhine,at the month of which Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) placesthe fort Xavalia, or some river in the country of theFrisians. [L. S] NAVARI. [Neuri.] NAVARUM. [Neuri.] NAUBARUM. [Neuri.] NAU'CRATIS (NoiinpaTir, Herod, ii. 179;Strab. xvii. p. 801 ; Ptol. iv. 5. § 9; Callimacb.Epigr. 41; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Sleph. B. t. v.: Eth.HavKparirvs or NauKpaTiwrrjs), was originally anemporium for trade, founded by colonists from Mi­letus, in the Saitic nome of the Delta. It stoodupon the eastern bank of the Canopic arm ofthe Nile, which, from the subsequent importanceof Naucratis, was sometimes called the OstiumNaucraticum. (Plin.v.lO.s.Il.) There was, doubt­less, on the same she an older Aegyptian town,the name of which has been lost in that of theGreek dockyard and haven. Naucratis first at­tained its civil and commercial eminence in thereign of Amasis (n. c. 550) who rendered it, as re­garded the Greeks, the Canton of Aegypt. Fromthe date of his reign until the Persian invasion, orperhaps even the founding of Alexandras, Naucratispossessed a monopoly of the Mediterranean com­merce, for it was the only Deltaic harbour intowhich foreign vessels were permitted to enter; andif accident or stress of weather had driven them D D