OCR Output 34 THE PELOPONNESIAK WAR. there was validity in the arguments of the Corinthians ; but,at the second, they came to a different resolution—not indeedto form such an alliance with the Corcyreans as to have thesame enemies and the same friends (for then, if the Corcyreansshould summon them to join in an expedition against Corinth,their treaty with the Peloponnesians would be broke); but analliance merely defensivej for the reciprocal succour of one an­other, if either Corcyra or Athens or any of their respectiveallies should be assaulted. A war with the Peloponnesiansseemed to them unavoidable ; and they had no mind to leaveCorcyra, which had so great a naval force, for a prey to theCorinthians ; but, to break them to the utmost of their poweragainst one another, that upon occasion they might be the bet­ter able to war with the Corinthians, thus weakened to theirhands, though joined by other states of Greece which had pow­er at sea. At the same time that island appeared to them mostconveniently situated in the passage to Italy and Sicily. Uponthese motives the Athenians received the Corcyreans into theiralliance: And, not long after the departure of the Corinthians,sent ten ships to their aid under the command of Lacedaemonius When it appeared that the point proposed would not pass unanimously,the crier, at the command of the president in the chair, proclaimed aloud,*' What citizen above fifty years of age hath a mind to speak i" When suchhad been heard, the crier made a second proclamation, that " any Athenian" whatever had liberty to speak." The debate being ended, the presidentin the chair bade the crier put the question. It was decided by holding upof hands. The chairman distinguished the numbers in the affirmative andnegative, and declared the majority. Then the resolution or decree wasdrawn up in form : and the Archon's name who gave title to the year, theday of the month, and the name of the presiding tribe were prefixed. The public decorum of the Athenians is worthy observation. The sen­timents of age and experience were first to be heard, and then the spiritand resolution of the younger were called in to assist at the public consul­tation. Nay, they carried it farther; no person convicted of profaneness,debauchery, cowardice, or public misdemeanor, was suffered to speak inthis assembly. From them they expected no sound instruction, no disin.terested advice. If any such offered to speak, the president.-! of the assemblyimmediately enjoined them silence ; or, if they were refractory, ordered1their officers to pull them down and turn them out of the assembly.