OCR Output HISTORY OF HOME.—BOOK X. 157 slay a victim, or take an augury in the citadel? When,in the inscription on a person's statue, the consulship,censorship, and triumph, shall be read with patience,will the eyes of readers be unable to endure the addi­tion of the office of augur or pontiff? In truth (withdeference to the gods I say it) I trust that we are,through the kindness of the Roman people, qualifiedin such a manner, that we should, by the dignity ofour characters, reflect back on the priesthood as muchlustre as we should receive ; and may demand, ratheron behalf of the gods, than for our own sakes, thatthose whom we worship in our private, we may alsoworship in a public capacity. 8. ' But why do I argue thus, as if the cause of thepatricians respecting the priesthood stood on untouchedground? and as if we were not already in possession ofone sacerdotal office of the highest class ? We seeplebeian decemvirs for performing sacrifices, interpre­ters of the sibylline prophecies, and of the fates of thenation; we also see them presidents of Apollo's festi­val, and of other religious performances. Neither wasany injustice done to the patricians when, to the twocommissioners for performing sacrifices, an additionalnumber was joined in favor of the plebeians; nor isthere now, when a tribune, a man of courage and acti­vity, wishes to add five places of augurs, and four ofpontiffs, to which plebeians may be nominated : not,Appius, with intent to expel you from your places, butthat men of plebeian rank may assist you in the ma­nagement of divine affairs with the same zeal withwhich they assist you in matters of human concern­ment. Blush not, Appius, at having a man your col­league in the priesthood whom you might have a col­league in the censorship or consulship; whose masterof the horse you yourself may be when he is dictator,as well as dictator when he is master of the horse. ASabine adventurer, the first origin of your nobility,either Attus Clausus or Appius Claudius, which youwill, was admitted by the ancient patricians of thosedays into their number: do not then, on your part,