OCR Output 452 NUCEU1A. NUUS. that it received a fresh accession of veteran sol­diers as colonists under Xcro. (Tac. Ann. xiii. 31.)It was not long after this new .settlement thata violent quarrel broke out between the colonists ofPompeii and Nuceria, which ended in a .serious tu­mult, not without bloodshed (hi. xiv. 17). Thisis the last mention of Nuceria that we rind in his­tory under the Etonian Empire; but its name appearsin I he Itineraries, and is incidentally mentioned byProcopius. The decisive battle between Nurses andTelas, which put an end to the Gothic monarchy inItaly, a. i>. 533, was fought in its neighbourhood, onthe banks of the Sarnus, culled by Procopius theDraco. (Pmcop. B. G. iv. 35.) We learn also that itwas an episcopal see in the early aged of Christianity,a dignity that it has retained without interruptiondown to the present day. Its modern appellation ofXocera dei Pagani is derived from the circumstance,that in the 13th century a body of S:iraccns were es­tablished there by tlte emperor Frederic II. There areno remains of antiquity at Xocera, except a very oldchurch, which is supposed to hare been originally anancient temple. (Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 602.) It was at Nuceria that the great line of high-road,which, quitting the Appian Way at Capua, proceededdirectly S. to Ehegiuin, began to ascend the range ofhills that separate the Bay of Naples from that ofSalerno, or the Posidonian gulf, as it was called bythe ancients. Strabo reckons the distance from Pom­peii, through Nuceria to Marcina, on the latter bay,at 120 stadia (15 Homan mile*) (Strab. v. p. 251),which is less than the truth; Nuceria being, in fact,7 geographical miles, or 70 stadia, from Pompeii,and the same distance from the sea near Salerno.The inscription at PoUa (Forum PopUlii) gives thedistance from theuee to Nuceria at 51 M. 1'.; while itreckons only 33 from thence to Capua. The Itine­rary gives ItJ from Nweria to Nola, and 21 fromNoia to C.ip'ia. (Orel). Inscr. 3308; Moiumaeu,Inter. U. X, G27G; /tin. Ant. p. 109). COIN OP NOCKRIA IN CAMPANIA. 2. (Xocera), a town of Umbria, situated on theFlaminian Way. between Forum Flaminii and theactual pass of the Apennines. It is mentioned byStrabo as a town of considerable population, owing toits situation on so frequented a line of road, as wellas to a manufacture of wooden vessels for householdutensils. Pliny designates the inhabitants as " Ntt-cerini cognomir.e F ivonienses et Camellani,1' but theorigin of both appellations is quite unknown. Pto­lemy terms it a Colonia. but it is not mentioned assuch by any other writer. If this is not a mistake,it must have been one of those settled by Trajan orHadrian. (Zumpt, dt Colon, p. 41)1.) The moderncity of Xocera, a small place, though an episcopal seeof gre;it antiquity, undoubtedly retains the ane'entsite. It was situated 12 miles from Forum Flaminiiand 15 from Fulginium (Foligno)* (Strab. v. p. 227;Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii. 1. §53; Jtin. Ant.p. 311 ; I tin. I Her. p. 614.) 3. A town of Cispadaue Gaul, mentioned only byPtolemy (iii. I. §46), from whom we learn that itwas situated in the neighbourhood of Kegium Le- piduin and Mutina; but was not on the linr of theVia Aemiha. It is probably represented by the tJ-lage of Lnzzara, near GuagtaUa, on the right taikof the Po. (Cluver. Ital. p. 281.) 4. A city of Brutthtm, in the neighbourhood a*Terina, not mentioned by any ancient author, traita)existence of which is clearly established by itkcosa,which have the Gre*k inscription NOTKPlNflX(those of Nuceria Alfatema having uniformly 0«alegends), and indicate a close connection witb Tolaand Khegium. Its site is marked by tlx medaltown of Nocera, situated on a hill about 4 milafretthe Tyrrhenian sea and the mouth of the rue Si-vuto. Considerable remains of an ancient city anstill risible there, which have been regarded byae*/1writers as those of Terina (MiUingen, Ancitht Cass,p. 25, Xumisniatique de VAnc. Italic, p. 5S\ Uilnot improbable that the NovKpia cited by NriJuassof Byzantium from Philistus is tlie city in quolis\though he terms it a city of Tyrrhenian »bka aa*lin any cose be erroneous. [K. H. B.] :b»M [Som COIN OF NCCEUIA IN nniTTUN. NUDIONNUM, in the Table, is probably the place as Noeodunum of the DUbiu • [ dl mm.] [G-H XU'DIUM (Noo5u»'), a town f.-unded If IMinyae, in Triphylia in Kits, but which was liestrajby the Kleians in the time of Herodotus (iv. 14H* NUITHONES, a German tribe, mentioaaijTacitus (tierm. 40) as inhabiting the Uuik»ef|Albis (Elbe), to the S\V. of the Lonpobardi. IIin common with other neighbouring tribes w*>aiUKrtha, that is, the Earth. Jn some edit*a»Jname is written Kurt ones; so that nothing 6mlran be said either in regard to the import S^Hname i>r to the exact locality they inhabited. \Jm NT1US (Noofov 4k€oXoI\ Ptol. iv. 6. § 6:Latin translation, " Nunii ostia''), a river of faMLibya, which discharged itself into the seaof Mauretania Tin si tana. It has been >dsaawith that which is called in the SLp jjurJHanno, Lixis (At{os, Geog Graoe. Mm pwajMiiller), and by ScylaJt of Caryartda (if the patext be correct), Xion (Hivr. p. 53"). and by 1bius (ap. J'liu. v. 1), Cosescs. The Lybtanlmust not be confounded with the Mauretaniaafland town of the same name, mentioned \>? 9|(/. c; romp. Artemidorus, ap Strab. xml fvlSteph. Ii. s. V. Ai>£; Aifo Hecat. />.Ptol. iv. 1. §§2, 13; Pomp. Mela, ui. lOtPlin. v. 1), and which is now represent rd IJriver called by the Arabs Wady-ei-Kkos. fallsa]the sea at El-Arhch, where bartli ( \ \ -ir-iermpp. 23—25) found ruins of the ancient I ttt*Lixus of Hanno, or Nuius of Ptolemy, i* the 4Dra (W'ady-Drti), which the S. declivity 4Atlas of Morocco sends to the Sa/ujra iu U&.|river for the greater part of the year uearr/ mMwhich Keuou (Esplor. de I'Alg. /Jut. eft 1vol. viii. pp. 65—76) considers to be a sixlblthan the Rhine. It tlows at brst fruro N I >.in N. lat 29° and W. long. 5°, it turns almost«