OCR Output C. VII.J VESPASIAN. 33 away by force, he should be put into custody. His commis­eration also of the people under their lamentations had muchbroken that his eagerness to leave them; so he resolved tostay, and arming himself with the common despair of the citi­zens, he said to them, — " Now is the time to begin to fightin earnest, when there is no hope of deliverance left. It is abrave thing to prefer glory before life, and to set about somesuch noble undertaking as may be remembered by late pos­terity." Having said this, ho fell to work immediately, andmade a sally, and dispersed the enemies' out-guards, and ranas far as the Roman camp itself, and pulled the coverings oftheir tents to pieces, that were upon their banks, and set fireto their works. And this was the manner in which he neverleft off fighting, neither the next day nor that after it, but wenton with it for a considerable number both of days and nights.18. Upon this Vespasian, when he saw the Romans dis­tressed by these sallies (though they were ashamed to be madeto run away by the Jews, and when at any time they madethe Jews run away, their heavy armor would not let thempursue them far, while the Jews, when they had performedany action, and before they could be hurt themselves, stillretired into the city,) ordered his armed men to avoid theironsets, and not fight it out with men under desperation, whilenothing is more courageous than despair; but that their vio­lence would be quenched when they saw they failed of theirpurposes, as fire is quenched when it wants fuel; and thatit was proper for the Romans to gain their victories ascheap as they could, since they were not forced to fight, butonly to enlarge their own dominions. So he repelled the Jewsin great measure by the Arabian archers and the Syrianslingers, and by those that threw stones at them; nor wasthere any intermission of the great number of their offensiveengines. Now the Jews suffered greatly by these engines,without being able to escape from them, and when these en­gines threw their stones or javelins a great way, and the Jewswere within reach, they pressed hard upon the Romans, andfought desperately, without sparing either soul or body, onepart succoring another by turns, when it was tired down.