OCR Output 368 DfeCXINE AND FALX [CHAP. XLIII. guards. Before I can take the field, I must receive anadequate supply of light and heavy-armed troops; and itis only with ready money that you can procure the in­dispensable aid of a powerful body of the cavalry of theHuns."1 An officer, in whom Belisarius confided, wassent from Ravenna to hasten and conduct the succours;but the message was neglected, and the messenger wasdetained at Constantinople by an advantageous marriage.After his patience had been exhausted by delay and dis­appointment, the Roman general repassed the Hadriatic,and expected at Dyrrachium the arrival of the troops,which were slowly assembled among the subjects and al­lies of the empire. His powers were still inadequate tothe deliverance of Rome, which was closely besieged bythe Gothic king. The Appian way, a march of fortydays, was covered by the barbarians; and as the pru­dence of Belisarius declined a battle, he preferred thesafe and speedy navigation of five days from the coast ofEpirus to the mouth of the Tiber.Rome be- After reducing, by force or treaty, the towns of infe-the Goth*, rior note in the midland provinces of Italy, Totila pro-May. 546' ceeded, not to assault, but to encompass and starve, theancient capital. Rome was afflicted by the avarice, andguarded by the valour, of Bessas, a veteran chief of Go­thic extraction, who filled, with a garrison of three thou­sand soldiers, the spacious circle of her venerable walls.From the distress of the people he extracted a profitabletrade, and secretly rejoiced in the continuance of thesiege. It was for his use that the granaries had been re­plenished; the charity of pope Vigili us had purchasedand embarked an ample supply of Sicilian corn; butthe vessels which escaped the barbarians were seized by arapacious governor, who imparted a scanty sustenance tothe soldiers, and sold the remainder to the wealthy Ro­mans. The medimnus, or fifth part of the quarter of 1 Procopius, lib. 3. c;12. The soul of a hero is deeply impressed on the letter:nor can we confound such genuine and original acts with the elaborate and oftenempty speeches of the Byzantine historians.