OCR Output 132 LIVY. Besides this, the Etrurians having made a levy oftroops, enforced by the sanctions of the devoting law,each man choosing another, came to an engagement atthe Cape of Vadimon, with more numerous forces,and, at the same time, with greater spirit than theyhad ever shown before. The battle was fought withsuch animosity that no javelins were thrown by eitherparty: swords alone were made use of; and the furyof the combatants was still higher inflamed by the long-continued contest; so that it appeared to the Romansas if they were disputing, not with Etrurians, whomthey had so often conquered, but with a new race.Not the least intention of giving ground appeared inany part; the first lines fell; and, lest the standardsshould be exposed without defence, the second lineswere formed in their place. At length, even the lastreserves were called into action ; and such was the ex足tremity of the difficulty and danger, that the Romancavalry dismounted, and pressed forward, throughheaps of arms and bodies, to the front ranks of the in足fantry. A new army, as it were, thus starting up,disordered the battalions of the Etrurians; and therest, weak as their condition was, seconding this at足tack, broke at last through the enemy's ranks. Theirobstinacy then began to give way: some companiesquitted their posts, and, as soon as they once turnedtheir backs, betook themselves to open flight. Thatday first broke the strength of the Etrurians, nowgrown exuberant through a long course of prosperity;all the flower of their men were cut off, and the Ro足mans, without halting, seized and sacked their camp. 40. Equal danger, and an issue equally glorious,soon after attended the war with the Samnites; who,besides their many preparations for the field, made nolittle glitter with new decorations of their armor. Theirtroops were in two divisions, one of which had theirshields embossed with gold, the other with silver. Theshape of the shield was this: broad at the middle tocover the breast and shoulders, and flat at top, slopingoff gradually so as to become pointed below, that it