OCR Output AN. 521.] 391 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. for his great men, his princes, and toparchsof Persia and Media; and set himself downin the place where he used to give audience;and bade each of his body guards to declarewhat they thought proper concerning the pro­posed questions, in the hearing of them all. Accordingly the first of them began tospeak of the strength of wine; and demon­strated it thus: "When," said he, "I am togive my opinion of wine, O ye men, I findthat it exceeds every thing by the followingindications. It deceives the mind of thosethat drink it, and reduces that of the king tothe same state with that of the orphan, andhe who stands in need of a tutor; and erectsthat of the slave to the boldness of him thatjs free, and that of the needy becomes likethat of the rich man. For it changes and re­news the souls of men, when it gets into them:and it quenches the sorrow of those that areunder calamities, and makes men forget thedebts they owe to others, and makes themthink themselves to be of alLmen the richest;it makes them talk of no small things, but oftalents, and such other names, as becomewealthy men only. Nay, more, it makesthem insensible of their commanders, andof their kings, and takes away the remem­brance of their friends and companions.For it arms men even against those that aredearest to them, and makes them appear thegreatest strangers to them. And when theyare become sober, and they have slept outtheir wine in the night, they arise withoutknowing any thing they have done in theircups. I take these for signs of power, andby them discover that wine is the strongest,and most insuperable of all things." As soon as the first had given the afore­mentioned demonstrations of the strength ofwine; the next to him began to speak aboutthe strength of a king, and demonstrated thathe was the strongest of all, and more power­ful than any thing else, that appears to haveany force or wisdom. "They are men," saidhe, "who govern all things: they force theearth and the sea to become profitable tothem, in what they desire: and over thesemen do kings rule: and over them they haveauthority. Now those who rule over thatanimal which is of all the strongest, andmost powerful, must needs deserve to beesteemed insuperable jn po^er and force. For example, when kings command theirsubjects to make wars and undergo dangers,they are hearkened to: and when they sendthem against their enemies, their power isso great, that they are obeyed. They com­mand men to level mountains, and to pulldown walls and towers: nay, when they arecommanded to be killed, and to kill, theysubmit to it; that they may not appear totransgress the king's commands. And whenthey have conquered, they bring what theyhave gained in the war to the king. Thosealso who are not soldiers, but cultivate theground, after they have endured the labour,and all the inconveniences of such works ofhusbandry, and have reaped and gathered intheir fruits, they bring tributes to the king.And whatsoever it is which the king saysor commands, it is done of necessity, andthat without any delay. While he, in themean time, is satiated with all sorts of foodand pleasure, and sleeps in quiet. He isguarded by such as watch; and such as are,as it were, fixed down to the place throughfear. For no one dares leave him, evenwhen he is asleep; nor does any one goaway and take care of his own affairs; buthe esteems this one thing to be the onlywork of necessity, to guard the king; andaccordingly to this he wholly addicts himself.How then can it be otherwise, but that theking exceeds all in strength, ^ hile so greata multitude obey his injunctions?" Now when this man had held his peace,the third of them, who was Zorobabel, be­gan to speak concerning women and truth."Wine," said he, "is strong; as is the kingalso, whom all men obey; but women aresuperior to them in power. For it was awoman who brought the king into the world;and those who plant the vines, and make thewine, they are women who bear them, andbring them up. Nor indeed is there anything which we do not receive from them.For these women weave garments for us;and our household affairs are by their meanstaken care of, and preserved in safety. Norcan we live separate from women.. Andwhen we have got a great deal of gold andsilver, and any other thing that is of fjreatvalue, and see a beautiful woman, we leaveall these things; and with open mou'.h fixour eyes upon her countenauce; and are