OCR Output 131G UMBRIA. UMBRIA. cans and Samnites. (Lit. x. 21.) Their combinedforces were, however, overthrown in the great battleof Sentinum (lb. 26, 27; Polyb. ii. 19); and this isthe last time that the Umbrians, as a people, appearin arms against the Roman power. We are indeedtold in tlie epitome of Livy that the Umbrians wereagain defeated, and reduced to submission at thesame time as the Salient i ties, in B.C. 266 (Liv.Epit. xv.); but there seems no doubt that this refersonly to the outlying tril>e or people of tlve Snrsinatea(on the N. of tiie Apennines, and adjoining the BoianGauls), as the Fasti, in recording the events of theyear, mention both consuls as triumphing only " deSarsinatibus " ( Fast Capit.) We have no account ofthe terms on which tlve Umbrians were received intosubmission, or of the manner in which they passed,like their neighbours the Etruscans, into t he conditionof dependent allies of Rome: it is certain only thatthe different tril>es and cities were, according to theusual Roman policy, admitted on very differentterms. Ocriculum, as already mentioned, enjoyedspecial privileges ; and the same was the ease withthe Camertes, who. even in the days of Cicero, re­tained a peculiarly favoured position, and had atreaty which secured them a nominal independenceand equality. (Liv. xxviii. 45 ; Cic. /wo Balb. 20.)The fer;ile district of the '* Gallic us ager" was ingreat part occupied by Roman colonies, of whichSena Gal Ilea was founded as early as n. c. 289.Ariminum in B.C. 268, and Pisaurum in B.C. 18.3.But besides these, a considerable part of that territorywas divided among Roman citizens, by r law of thetribune, 0. Flaminius, in b. c. 232. (Cic. Brut. 14.)The other Umbrians continued in the position of de­pendent allies of Koine, and appear to have remaineduniformly faithful to the powerful republic. Thus,in B.C. 282, wc are told that they were solicited bythe envoys of the Tarentines (Dion Cass. /V. 144),but apparently without effect : nor does it appearthat their constancy was for a moment shaken bythe successes of Hannibal: and before the close ofthe Second Punic War we find them coming forwardwith the offer of volunteers tor the army of Scipio.(Liv. xxviii. 45.) In the Social War they are saidt" have for a time broken out into revolt, and weredefeated in a battle by the legate C. Plotius; but itis probable that the defection was a very partialone, and the Romans wisely secured the fidelity of theUmbrians as well as of the Etruscans by bestowingon them the Roman franchise, b. c. 90. (Liv.Epit. Ixxiv.; Oros. v. 18; Appian. B. C. i. 49.) From this time the name of the Umbrians as anation disappears from history, though it continued,as already mentioned, to be well known as one ofthe territorial divisions of Italy. (Tac. Huit. iii. 41,42; Jul. CapiL Gordiatii, 4: Ac.) In the earlyages of the empire it was still one of the districtswhich supplied the most numerous recruits to thepraetorian cohorts. (Tac. Ann. iv. 5.) As long asthe division of Italy into regions subsisted, the nameof Uinbria continued to Im: applied to the sixth re­gion; but from an early period, certainly ltng beforethe time of 0.Histamine, it was united for adminis­trative purposes with Etniria.and its name teems tohave become gradually merged in that of tlie moreimportant province. Thus Servras tells us thatUuibria was a part of Tuscia (Serv. ad A en. xii.753), and the Liber Coloniarum includes the ancientUntbrian cities of His pel I um, Tuder, Ameria, &c,among the "Civitates Tusciae.'' (Lib. Colon, p.224.) On the other hand, the district E. of the Apennines, the ancient Ager GsTHnjs. *a= rvagain separated from Umbria. and became tavo«i ifthe name of Picenum Ajinonariuni. (llor^ai^. *Lib. Col p. 211.) Of the Umbrians as a nation during tbeir pr>*of independence we know almost nothing. We e*nonly that they enjoyed the reputation of ksvenlhardy warriors; and the slight resistance tait uVtopposed to the Roman arms was probably titheir want of political organisation. So nr u wlearn, they appear to have been divided int.) pes«aitribes or " poputi," snch as the Camerte*. Sar-aa-'M.&c, each of which followed its own line of f^r*without any reference to a common anti*«rity. N«trace is found in history of the existence among tbeaof any national league or ctwncil such as extsted rare?the Etruscans and Latins; and even where t» Cn»brians are spoken of in general terms, it kdoubtful whether the whole nation is reaiiy nanstThe physical characters of Umbria are ilr-alwholly determined by the chain of the A'«"^which, as already described, enters the pnrvnear the soarres of the Tiber, and exte:tds tfiesnwithout interruption to tl«e lofry group d taMonti delta SibiUa (the ancient M<ns F*ifh«)tfthe sources of the Xar, and on the confines of rVecssand the land of the Sabine*. The Apenninesrise in this part of the chain to so great an rWv^as they attain farther south, but their pnaiafcsummits within the Umbrian territory rang* rria4000 to 5500 feet in height; while their mOT»ramifications fill up a space varying fmm * Sflmiles in breadth. A very large porti'1*) of Ustnis therefore a mountain country (whence it is wrreiu montana Umbria " by Martial, iv. 10\ tiwor- »»nigged and difficult of access than the central no ^of Italy farther to the S. On the W. the nwar^-sdistrict terminates abruptly on tbe edge of * tcaJvalley or plain winch extends from rmr Sj****^tl>e neighbourhood of Perugia, and is thence («■-tinued up the valley of tbe Tiber as far as C*a«Castillo. But beyond this plain rise* anotherof hills, connected with the main chain «»f the ii»nines by a ridge which separates SpoIrtair&E T^w.and which spreads out through almost the »■*extent of country from the valley of the Xarv,**:of the Tiber. It is on tbe outlying hills or aaoM**of this range that tbe ancient Umbrian cities* T^*and Ameria were placed. Tbe broad vjjleythis group and the main mass of the cenirsj Af*"-nines is a fertile and delightful district, ma «■renowned in ancient times for the richness a»inriance of its pastures, which were wat*rfd H***streams of tlte Tinra and Clitumnus. Hewwithin a short distance of one another tie *Treba, Hispellum, Mevania, and Asskiom Ttfdistrict may accordingly be locked on as tbe htftof Umbria properly so called. On the E. of the central chain tbe Ap«=**descend more gradually to the eea bystages, throwing off like arms long ranges Htains, sinking into hills as they approach th* A --atic. The valleys between them are fsm«« Wnumeroas streams, which pursue nearly po^*courses from SW. to NE. Tbe rrvmt ctaacsv'1of these are the Aesis (£«a#), whirs idrarA Orestablished limit between Umbria and PioenW'Skxa, which flowed under tbe waUs of S««(Sittigaglui); the far more celebrated Mn n sixwhich entered the sea at Fanuaa Furtaisa»<rJ*the Pisalrls, which gave came to the c£j • f>