OCR Output CHAP. 20. ROMAN HISTORY. 431 and the success as usual, was answerable. He not onlyrouted the enemy in the engagement, but took theircamp, where he found considerable spoils, of which thegreatest part was remitted to the quaestor, and the re­mainder given to the soldiers. From thence he led hisarmy to Veii, where he increased the number or forts onthe lines, and prohibiting by proclamation, all fightingwithout orders, which bad often happened between thewalls of the town and the lines, in inconsiderate skir­mishes, he employed the people in useful works. He then began the most important and laborious workof all, which was to carry a mine into the enemy's cita-Jel. That there might be no intermission in the workrand at the same time to ease the workmen, that theymight not be oppressed with continual labour underground, he divided the pioneers into six bauds, each ofwhich was to work six hours at a time. Thus the workwas carried on night and day without intermission, till apassage was opened to the citadel. CHAP. XX. Tlie works completed. Disputes about dividing the spoil. J. HE dictator, when he saw that he must now infal­libly conquer, and that the richest city of Italy was onthe point of falling into his hands, where, of consequence,more considerable spoils would be taken than had beengained in all their former wars together; that he mightneither draw the anger of the soldiers upon himself, fordividing them with too much parsimony, nor the envyof the fathers, for distributing them with too much pro­fusion, wrote to the senate to inform that body, 'That bv• the favour of the immortal gods, his own conduct, ahii'the perseverance of the soldiers, Veii would soon be in'the hands of the Roman people. That, therefore, he'. would be glad to have their opinion with regard to the'disposal of the spoils.' The senate .were divided into two opinions. The onewas that of Licinius the father, who being first asked byhis son, answered, that he thought proclamation shouldbe made, that whoever of the citizens was desirous of