OCR Output 224 [BOOK VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW& BOOK VII. Containing an Interval of Forty Years. FROM THE DEATH OF SAUL TO THE DEATH OF DAYID. CHAP. I. of david's conduct ok receiving the news of saul's DEATH, AND OF THE CIVIL WAR WHICH ENSUED BETWEENTHE ADHERENTS OF DAVID AND ISHBOSHETH, IN WHICHASAHEL AND ABNER WERE SLAIN. THIS battle happened on the same daywhereupon David was come back toZiklag, after he had overcome the Amalekites.Now when he had been already two days atZiklag, there came to him the man who slewSaul; he had escaped out of the battle whichthe Israelites had with the Philistines; andhad his clothes rent, and ashes upon hishead. And when he made his obeisance toDavid, he inquired of him whence he came?He replied, from the battle of the Israelites;and informed him, that the result of it wasunfortunate; many ten thousands of the Is­raelites having been cut off, and Saul, toge­ther with his sons, slain. He also said, thathe could well give him this information, be­cause he was present at the victory gainedover the Hebrews; and was with the kingwhen he fled. Nor did he deny that he hadhimself slain the king, when he was ready tobe taken by the enemy, and himself exhortedhim to that act; because when he was fallenon his sword his wounds had made him soweak, that he was not able to kill himself.He also produced demonstrations that theking was slain; which were the golden brace­lets that had been on the king's arms and his * 2 Sam. i. 13, lb. t Though David, after Saul's demise, had a right to thekingdom by virtue of God's designation; yet as God hadno where declared, at what time he was make use of thisright he would not enter into possession, nor take the crown, which he had taken away from Saul'sdead body; and had brought them to him.So David having no longer any room to ques­tion the truth of what he said, but seeingmost evident marks that Saul was dead, herent his garment, and continued all that daywith his companions in weeping, and lamen­tation. This grief was augmented by the con­sideration of Jonathan, the son of Saul, whohad been his most faithful friend, and theoccasion of his deliverance. He also evincedsuch great virtue, and such great kindnessfor Saul, as not only to take his death toheart, though he had been frequently indanger of losing his life by his means, but topunish him that slew him. For when Davidhad said to him, that he was become his ownaccuser, as the very man who had slain theking; and when he had understood that hewas the son of an Amalekite, he commandedhim to be slain.* He also committed to wri­ting some lamentations and funeral com­mendations of Saul and Jonathan; whichhave continued to my own age. When David had paid these honours to theking, he left off his mourning, and inquiredof God by the prophet,t which of the citiesof the tribe of Judah, he would bestow uponhim to dwell in? God answered that he be­stowed upon him Hebron:J so he left Ziklag,and came to Hebron; and took with him histwo wives, and his armed men. Whereuponall the people of the aforementioned tribe administration of public affairs upon him. without havingfirst consulted him". Patrick's Comment. B. J Hebron was situated in the midst of the tribe of Judah;as it was a very ancient city, the metropolis of thewhole tribe, and the possession of those priestly families X