OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97 which was sanctified, for the first time, by the presenceof a fighting bishop. Their disorderly numbers werevanquished in the plains of Phrygia by the valour anddiscipline of the Goths; but a war of six years almostexhausted the courage of the emperor.11 The Isaurians A- d.49« ° r 498. retired to their mountains; their fortresses were succes­sively besieged and ruined; their communication withthe sea was intercepted; the bravest of their leaders diedin arms; the surviving chiefs, before their execution,were dragged in chains through the Hippodrome; a co­lony of their youth was transplanted into Thrace, andthe remnant of the people submitted to the Roman go­vernment. Yet some generations elapsed before theirminds were reduced to the level of slavery. The popu­lous villages of mount Taurus were filled with horsemenand archers; they resisted the imposition of tributes,but they recruited the armies of Justinian; and his civilmagistrates, the proconsul of Cappadocia, the count ofIsauria, and the praetors of Lycaonia and Pisidia, wereinvested with military power to restrain the licentiouspractice of rapes and assassinations.' If we extend our view from the tropic to the mouth of Fortifica-the Tanais, we may observe on one hand, the precautions emp5ref th°of Justinian to curb the savages of ^Ethiopia,11 and on g°mint£etothe other, the long walls which he constructed in Cri-,|ie Persianmaea for the protection of his friendly Goths, a colonyof three thousand shepherds and warriors.1 From that h The Isaurian war and the triumph of Anastasius are briefly and darkly repre­sented by John Matala; (tom. 2. p. 106, 107.) Evagrius; (lib. 3. o. 35.) Theophanes(p. 118—120.) and the Chronicle of Marcellinus. 1 Fortes ea regio (says Justinian) viroshabet, neo in nllo differt ab Isauria, thoughProcopius (Persic. lib. 1. c. 13.) marks an essential difference between their militarycharacter ; yet in former times the Lycaonians and Pisidians had defended their li­berty against the great king. (Xenophon. Anahasis, lib. 3. c. 2.) Justinian introducessome false and ridiculous erndition of the ancient empire of the Pisidians, and Ly-caon, who, after visiting Rome (long before jJEneas), gave a name and people to Ly­caonia. (Novell. 24, 25. 27. 30.) * See Procopius, Persio. lib. 1.e. 19. The altar of national concord, of annualsacrifice and oaths, which Diocletian had erected in the isle of Elephantine, was de­molished by Justinian with less policy than zeal. .' 1 Procopius de Edificiis, lib. 3. c. 7. Hist. lib. 8. c. 3, 4. These unamhitiousGoths had refused to follow the standard of Theodoric. As late as the fifteenth andsixteenth century, the name and nation might be discovered between Cafla and thestraits of Azoph, (d'Anville Memoiret) do ('Academic, toiu. 30. p. 240.) They well