OCR Output 232 ROMAN EMPIRE. this occasion to have foreseen and prevented the latentclaims of the clergy. The royal youth was com­manded to take the crown from the altar, andwith his own hands to place it on his head, as a giftwhich he held from God, his father, and the nation."The same ceremony was repeated, though with lessenergy, in the subsequent associations of Lothaire andLewis II.; the Carlovingian sceptre was transmittedfrom father to son in a lineal descent of four genera­tions; and the ambition of the popes was reduced tothe empty honour of crowning and anointing thesehereditary princes who were already invested with theirLewis the power and dominion. The pious Lewis sur-^'Ps' vived his brothers, and embraced the whole814—840. empire of Charlemagne; but the nations and thenobles, his bishops and his children, quickly descernedthat this mighty mass was no longer inspired by thesame soul; and the foundations were undermined tothe centre, while the external surface was yet fair andentire. After a war, or battle, which consumed onehundred thousand Franks, the empire was divided bytreaty between his three sons, who had violated everyfilial and fraternal duty. The kingdoms of GermanyLothaire I.and France were for ever separated; the pro-A-P.- vinces of Gaul, between the Rhone and theAlps, the Meuse and the Rhine, were assigned,with Italy, to the imperial dignity of Lothaire. In thepartition of his share, Lorraine and Arles, two recentand transitory kingdoms, were bestowed on the youngerLewis ii children; and Lewis II. his eldest son, was con-A. D. sae tent with the realm of Italy, the proper and suf­ficient patrimony of a Roman emperor. On hisdeath without any male issue, the vacant throne wasdisputed by his uncles and cousins, and the popes • Thegan, the biographer of Lewis, relates this coronation; and Baronius hashonestly transcribed it, (A. D. 813. no. 13, &c. see Gaillard, torn. 3. p. 506—508.)howsoever adverse to the claims of the popes. For the series of the Carlovingians,see the historians of France, Italy, and Germany ; Pfeffel, Schmidt, Velly, Mura-tori, and even Voltaire, whose pictures are sometimes just, and always pleasing.