OCR Output 664 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. way more and more augmented. But thenthis magnificent temper of his, and that sub­missive behaviour and liberality which he ex­ercised towards Caesar, and the most power­ful men of Rome, obliged him to transgressthe customs of his nation, and to set asidemany of their laws: and by building citiesafter an extravagant manner, and erectingtemples: *not in Judea indeed, for thatwould not have been permitted; it beingforbidden us to pay any honour to images, orrepresentations of animals, after the mannerof the Greeks; but still he did thus in thecountry properly, out of our bounds, and inthe cities thereof. The apology which hemade to the Jews for these things was, thatall was done, not out of his own inclinations,but by the commands and injunctions ofothers, in order to please Caesar, and theRomans; as though he had not the Jewishcustoms so much in his eye, as he had thehonour of those Romans; while yet he hadhimself entirely in view all the while: andindeed was very ambitious to leave greatmonuments of his government to posterity.Whence it was that he was so zealous inbuilding such fine cities, and expended suchvast sums of money upon them. Now fupon his noticing a place near thesea, which was very proper for containing acity, and was before called Strato's tower,he set about getting a plan for a magnificentcity there; and erected many edifices ofwhite stone, with great diligence all over it.He also adorned it with most sumptuouspalaces, and large edifices for containingthe people; and what was the greatest andmost laborious work of all, he adorned itwith a haven, that was always free from thewaves of the sea. Its largeness was notless than the Pyraeum, at Athens; and hadtowards the city a double station for theships. It was of excellent workmanship;and this was the more remarkable for itsbeing built in a place that of itself was notsuitable to such noble structures, but was tobe brought to perfection by materials fromother places, and at very great expenses. * One may here take notice, that how tyrannical andextravagant soever Herod were in himself, and in hisGrecian cities, as to those plays, shews, and temples foridolatry, mentioned above, chap. 8, and here also, yetdurst even he introduce very few of them into the cities This city is situate in Phoenicia, in the pas­sage by sea to Egypt, between Joppa andDora; which are lesser maritime cities, andnot fit for havens, on account of the impetu­ous south winds that beat upon them; whichrolling the sands that come from the seaagainst the shores, do not admit of shipslying in their station: but the merchantsare generally there forced to ride at theiranchors in the sea itself. So Herod endea­voured to rectify this inconvenience; andlaid out such a compass towards the land, asmight be sufficient for a haven, wherein thegreat ships might lie in safety. And this heeffected by letting down vast stones of abovefifty feet in length; not less than eighteenin breadth, and nine in depth, into twentyfathoms deep: and as some were lesser, sowere others bigger, than those dimensions.This mole which he built by the seasidewas two hundred feet wide; the half ofwhich was opposed to the current of thewaves, so as to keep off those waves whichwere to break upon them: and so was calledProcymatia or the first breaker of the waves:but the other half had upon it a wall, withseveral towers: the largest of which was awork of very great excellence, and wascalled Drusus, from the son-in-law of Caesar,who died young. There were a great num­ber of arches where the mariners dwelt:and there was also before them a key, orlanding place, which ran round the entirehaven, and was a most agreeable walk. Butthe entrance or mouth of the port was madeon the north quarter; on which side wasthe stillest of the winds of all in this place.And the basis of the whole circuit on theleft hand, at the entrance of the port, sup­ported a round turret; which was made verystrong, in order to resist the greatest waves;while on the right hand, stood two vaststones, and those each of them larger thanthe turret which was over against them.These stood upright, and were joined to­gether. Now there were edifices all alongthe circular haven made of the finest stone;with a certain elevation, whereon was erected of the Jews: who, as Josephus here notes, would noteven then have permitted it; so zealous were the} stillfor many of the laws of Moses, even under so tyrannicala government as this of Herod the Great.t An. 22.