OCR Output 0. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 10] to call in the Idumeans; so they wrote a bhfrrt" letter to thiseffect, that "Ananus had imposed on the people,, and wasbetraying their metropolis to the Romans; that they them­selves had revolted from the rest, and were in custody in thetemple, on account of the preservation of their liberty: .thatthere was but a small time left wherein they might hope fortheir deliverance; and that unless they would come iou-"mediately to their assistance, they should themselves be soosr"in the power of Ananus, and the city would bo in the powerof the Romans." They also charged the messengers to tellmany more circumstances to the rulers of the Idumeans.Now there were two active men proposed for the carryingthis message, and such as were well able to speak, and topersuade them that things were in this posture; and, whatwas a qualification still more necessary than the former, theywere very swift of foot; for they knew well enough thatthese would immediately comply with their desires, as beingever a tumultuous and disorderly nation, always on the watchupon every motion, delighting in mutations; and upon yourflattering them ever so little, and petitioning them, they soontake their arms, and put themselves into motion, and makehaste to a battle, as if it were to a feast. There was, indeed,occasion for quick dispatch in the carrying of this message,in which point the messengers were no way defective. Boththeir names were Ananias; and they soon came to the rulersof the Idumeans. 2. Now these rulers were greatly surprised at the contentsof the letter, and at what those that came with it further toldthem ; whereupon they ran about the nation like madmen,and made proclamation that the people should come to war;so a multitude was suddenly gotten together, sooner, indeed,than the time appointed in the proclamation, and every bodycaught up their arms, in order to maintain the liberty oftheir metropolis ; and twenty thousand of them were put intobattle-array, and came to Jerusalem under four commanders,John, and Jacob the son of Sosas; and besides these wereSimon the son of Cathlas, and Phincas the son of Clusothus. 3. Now this exit of the messengers was not known either 9*