OCR Output MELOS. 323 MELPES. Heracleides (Plin. lc.% and also Byblis by Ste­phanos B. (*. r. M'"jAoj); the latter name is said tolure been derived from its receiving a colony frumthe town of Byblus in Phoenicia. Other writersmention this Phoenician colony, and Festus derivesthe name of Melos from the founder of the colony.(Fest a v. MtlosS) Some connect the name withP3&*r, an apple, on account of the round shape ofthe island- The Phoenician settlement is probable;bat we know that it was colonised at an early periodby the Lacedaemonians, and that it continued to beinhabited by Dorians down to the time of the Pelo-poonesian War. According to the Melians themselves,the Lacedaemonians settled in the island 700 yearsbefore this war. (Herod, viii. 48; Thuc ▼. 84,111) In the Peloponnesian War, the Melians re­mained faithful to their mother city. In i\. c. 426,the Athenians made an unsuccessful attempt uponthe island; but in 416 they captured the principaltown, pot all the adult males to death, sold thewomen and children into slavery, and colonised thebland afresh by 500 Athenians. (Thuc v. 84—116; Diod. xii. 80; Strab. I c.) Melos is now called Afilo. It is mountainous andof volcanic origin. Its warm springs, which areno* used for bathing, are mentioned in ancient times.(Plin. xxxx 6. s. 23; Athen. ii. p. 43.) Pliny saysUiat the best sulphur was found in Melos (xsxv. 15.a. 50): and among other products of the island hetoomerates alum (xxxv. 15. s. 52), pummice-stone(xxxvi. 21. s. 42), and a bright colour, called Sft-Ummjh piffwtentum (xxxv. 6. s. 19; comp. Vitruv.vti. 7; Diosc. v. 180; Plant. Most. i. 3. 107).The mines of alum are on the eastern side of thei-Lnd, near a height which emits smoke, and hasevery appearance of having been a volcano. In thesouth-western half of the island, the mountains aremore rugged and lofty; the highest summit bearslite name of St. Elias. The Island produces goodwine sod olives, but there is not much care takenin the cultivation of the vine. In antiquity Melosw« celebrated for its kids. (Athen. i. p. 4.) Onec£ its greatest deficiencies is want of water. Theinhabitants of Kastron depend almost exclusivelyspun cisterns; and the only spring in the vicinity isto the westward of the ancient city, on the sea-side,where is a chapel of St. Nicolas. to ancient times the chief town in the island wascalled Melos. It btood upon the great harbour. Itis celebrated as the birthplace of Diagoras, snrnamedtoe Atheist. [/>«"/. of Biogr. art. Diagokas.] TheVjWo appears to have been small, since it is calledbjTbocydides a x^P^t n°t *<*A<f; and of the 3000mtn who originally composed the Athenian expe-citujo, the smaller half was sufficient to besiege thepUee. (Thuc, v. 84, 114.) The present capital ofMolos is named Kastron, and is situated upon asteep hill above the harbour. The former capitalwas in the interior, and was deserted on account ofhs snbealtby situation. Between Kastron and thenorthern shore of the harbour are the ruins of theanrient town, extending down to the water-side.*0n the highest part, which is immediately over­looked by the village, are some remains of polygonalwail*, and others of regular masonry with roundunrera. The western wall of the city is traceableall the way down the hill from the summit to them: on the east it followed the ridge of some cliffs,hot *ome foundations remain only in a few placet,"(Leake). Within the enclosure there is a small hill,•a which stand a church of St. Eliaa and a small monastery, and which perhaps served in aatiquityas a kind of acropolis. Here several architecturalfragments have been found. On the south-easternside of the hill are some seats cut out of the rock in asemi-circular form, of winch only four remained un­covered when Ross visited the island in 1843. Theyappear to have been the upper seats of a small theatreor odeum, which was perhaps mure ancient than thelarge theatre mentioned below. In front of theseseats is a quadrangular foundation of regular masonry,of which in one part four or five courses remain.About 40 steps eastward of this foundation are theremains of a temple or some other public building,consisting of fragments of a Corinthian capital andpart of a cornice. About a hundred steps SW. isthe larger theatre, which was cleared from its rub­bish in 1836 by the king of Bavaria, then CrownPrince. The nine lowest rows of seats, of whitemarble, are for the most part still remaining, butthe theatre, when entire, extended far up the hill.From the character of its architecture, it maysafely be ascribed to the Roman period. Thereare no other remains of the ancient town worthy ofnotice. Eastward of the ancient city is a village namedTpvjnjT^j, from the tombs with which the hill ispierced in every part. Eastward of Tptnrrjr-ft is anarrow valley sloping to the sea, which also containsseveral sepulchral excavations. Some of them con­sist of two chambers, and contain niches for severalbodies. There are, also, tombs in other parts of theisland. In these tombs many works of art andother objects have been discovered; painted vases,gold ornaments, arms, and utensils of various kinds.Some very interesting Christian catacombs have alsobeen discovered at Melos, of which Boss has given adescription. (Tournefort, Voyage, vol. i. p. 114,Engl, tr.; Tavernier, Voyage, vol. i. p. 435; Olivier,Voyage, vol. ii. p. 217; Leake, Northern Greece,vol. iii. p. 77; Prokesch, I hnhturtliy fatten, vol. Lp. 531, vol. ii. p. 200; Fiedler, Reise, vol. ii. p. 3G9;Ross, Reisen auf den Griechischen Itisdn} vol. iii.pp. 3, 145.) COIN OF MELOS. MELOS (MtjAos: Eth. MtjAioj), a Tillage ofAcarnania, mentioned only by Stepbanus B. (.«. t?.) MELOTIS, a district of Triphylia in Epirus.(Liv. .\\\ii. 13.) The names of Triphylia and Me-lotis. in connection with Epirua, occur only in Livy.Leake supposes that Melotis, which name indicates asheep-feeding district, was probably tho pastoralhighlands around Oitamtza, on the borders of Mo-lossis and Atintauia. (Northern Greece, vol. it.pp. 101, 119.) MELl'EIA (M«'AT*ia). a village in Arcadia, situ­ated upon Mt. Noniia, which is a portion of MountLycaeus, so called because Pan was said to huvehere discovered the melody (/t«Aos) of the syrinx.(Paus. viii. 38. § 11.) MELPES, a small river of Lucania, flowing intothe Tyrrhenian sea, near the promontory of l'a­ Y-2