OCR Output PAESTUM. PAESTUM. 513 £-*i Lin (riff. 17% though the passage is nottiw dstinct, that it m recovered by Alexander,L« (< Epinis, as late as B. a 330; bat if so, itnrjal; hod fell again into the hands of the bar­ on passed with the rest of Lucania into& hard) of the Romans. We find no mention ofi .o tbk tecum; but in B. c. 273, immediatelytin lilt departure of Pyrrhus from Italy, thetui ntabbabad a colony there for the securityf uWanly acquired territory on this side. (Lir.iatth.; VtlL Pat. i. 14; Strab. v. p. 251.) It»» imcakly at this period that the name wast-rcri or corrupted, into Paestcm, though therangi 3»t hare already taken place at the timeswa tat cut fell into the hands of the Lucanians.J- (tjd the time that it became a Roman colony,» m of Paffitura seems to have exclusively pre-*Aw; aad even its coins, which are inscribed with>'rn tlmam, have the legend I1AI2 andMIITANO. (EcxhJ, vol. i. p. 158.) We hearta ;ak it Paestum as a Roman colony: it was one» !i» Cifcriae Latinae, and distinguished itself byB latalm fidelity throughout the Second PunicTics the I'aestani are mentioned as sendingjalene as a present to the Roman senatethe battle of Cannae (Lir. xxii. 36).a a. c 210 they famished ships to thewith which D. Quintius repaired to the<f Tamitam; and the following year theythe eighteen colonies which still pro-tier readiness to furnish supplies and recruitsSexan armies, notwithstanding the long-con-poaareof the war (Liv. xxvi.39, xxvii. 10.)bacta was therefore at thia period still a flourish-t"i eotaidersble town, but we hear little more9<siae the Roman Republic. It is incidentallypa&ed br Cicero in one of his letters adI"); and ia noticed by nil the geographers«2 oanstmg municipal town. Strabo, how-"cvej that it was rendered unhealthy by"aura of a small river which flowed beneath(»• p 251); and it was probably, therefore,14eehrjng place. But it was still one ofI'raetecturar of Lucania at a considerablypried; aad inscriptions attest its continuedmx> Jimmjbout the Roman Empire. (Strab. I. c.;fi-S. a. 10; PtoL iii. 1. § 8; Lib. Colon, p.<ML W. 135, 2492. 3078: Bull. d. IntUp. 152.) In some of these it bears thetana; but it is uncertain at what periodthat rank: it certainly cannot refer tot*Vtaj Laos colony, as that must hare becomeb the xusicipaj condition by the effect ofJaiia. We learn from ecclesiastical autho- e** it became a bishopric at least as early as«Bvury: and it is probable that its finali labUtne was owing to the ravages of theo the tenth century. At that time theto the neighbouring townsituation a few miles • »« chirfly celebrated in ancient times*■> which poMu-esed the peculiarity oftBww a year, and were considered as sur-|»7«- ethers in fragrance. (Virg. Georg. iv.*i.Jf«t xv. 708; Propert. iv. 5. 59; Mar-«- to. vi. 80. 6; AiiKon. Idyll 14. 11.)■ that ■till grow wild airvmg the ruins areP"ta their ancient property, and bowerWR s Hay and November.■■La, The site of Paestum appears to have continuedwholly uninhabited from the time when the episcopalsee was removed till within a very recent period.It was not till the middle of the last century thatattention was drawn to the ruins which are now socelebrated. Though they can hardly be said to havebeen then first discovered, as they must always havebeen a conspicuous object from the Bag of Salerno,and could not but have been known in their immediateneighbourhood, they were certainly unknown to therest of Europe. Even the diligent Cluverius, writingin 1624, notices the fact that there were ruinswhich bore the name of Petto, without any allusionto their character and importance. (Cluver. Ital.p. 1255.) They seem to have been first visited bya certain Count Gazola, in the service of Charles VI I.,King of Naples, before the middle of the last century,and were descrilied by Antonini, in his work on thetopography of Lucania (Naples, 1745), and noticedby Mazzocchi, who has inserted a dissertation on thehistory of Paestum in his work on the HeracleanTables (pp. 499—515) published in 1754. Beforethe end of the century they became the subject ofthe special works of Magnoni and Paoli, and werevisited by travellers from all parts of Europe.Among these, Swinburne in 1779, has left a veryaccurate description of the ruins; and their archi­tectural details are given by Wilkins in his MagnaOratcia (fol. Cambr. 1807). The principal ruins consist of the walls, and threetemples standing within the space enclosed by them.The whole circuit of the walls can be clearly madeout, and they are in many places standing to a con­siderable height; several of the towers also remainnt the angles, and vestiges of the ancient gates,which were four in number; one of these, on the E.side of the town, is nearly perfect, and surmounted bya regularly constructed arch. The whole circuit of thewalls forms an irregular polygon, about 3 miles in cir­cumference. The two principal temples stand not farfrom the southern gate of thecity. The finest and mostancient of these is commonly known as the templeof Neptune; but there is no authority for the name,beyond the fact that Neptune, or Poseidon, was un­questionably the tutelary deity of the city whichderived from him its ancient name of Posidonia.The temple was hypaethral, or had its cella open tothe sky, and is 195 feet long by 79 wide: it is re­markably perfect; not a single column is wanting,and the entablature and pediments are almost entire.The style of architecture is Doric, but its proportionsare heavier, and the style altogether more massiveand solid than any other extant edifice of the kind.On this account some of the earlier antiquarians dis­puted the fact of its Greek origin, and ascribed it tothe Phoenicians or Etruscans : but there is not ashadow of foundation for this; we have no trace ofany settlement on the spot before the Greek colony;and the architecture is of pure Greek style, thoughprobably one of the most ancient specimens of theDoric order now remaining. About 100 yards fromthe temple of Neptune, and nearer to the south gate,is the second edifice, which on account of some pecu­liarities in its plan has been called a Basilica, but isunquestionably also a temple. It is of the kindcalled pseudo-dipteral; but differs from every otherancient building known in having nine columns ateach end, while the interior is divided into two partsby a single range of columns running along thecentre of the building. It was probably a templeconsecrated to two different divinities, or rather, in L L