OCR Output CHAP. XLV1.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 483 have been to advance into the provinces of Asia, leavingtheir innumerable cavalry to intercept his convoys, andcontinually to hang on the lassitude and disorder of hisrear. But the Greeks were still masters of the sea; afleet of galleys, transports, and store-ships, was assem­bled in the harbour; the barbarians consented toembark;a steady wind carried them through the Hellespont; thewestern and southern coast of Asia Minor lay on theirleft hand; the spirit of their chief was first displayed ina storm; and even the eunuchs of his train were excitedto suffer and to work by the example of their master.He landed his troops on the confines of Syria and Cili-cia, in the gulf of Scanderoon, where the coast sudden­ly turns to the south ;k and his discernment was express­ed in the choice of this important post.1 From all sides,the scattered garrisons of the maritime cities and themountains might repair with speed and safety to his im­perial standard. The natural fortifications of Cilicia pro­tected, and even concealed the camp of Heraclius, whichwas pitched near Issus, on the same ground where Alex­ander had vanquished the host of Darius. The anglewhich the emperor occupied, was deeply indented into avast semicircle of the Asiatic, Armenian, and Syrian pro­vinces; and to whatsoever point of the circumferencehe should direct his attack, it was easy for him to dis­semble his own motions, and to prevent those of theenemy. In the camp of Issus, the Roman general re­formed the sloth and disorder of the veterans, and edu- * George of Pisidia (Acroas. 2. 10. p. 8.) has fixed this important point of the Sy­rian and Cilioian gates. They are elegantly described by Xenophon, who marchedthrough them a thousand years before. A narrow pass of three stadia between steephigh rocks (w«rgai nM$etrat) and the Mediterranean was closed at each end by stronggates, impregnable to the land, (uiapixSfjv qvKw Biet), accessible by sea' (Anahasis,jib 1.. p. 35, 36. with Hutchinson's Geographical Dissertation, p. 6.) The gateswere thirty-fire parasangs, or leagues from Tarsus, (Anahasis, lib. 1. p. 33, 34.) andeight or ten from Antioch. (Compare Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 580—581. Scbitltens,Judex Geograph. ad calcem Vit. Saladin. p. 9. Voyage cu Turquie et en Perse, parM. Otter, tom. 1. p. 78, 79.) 1 Heraclius might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero.—" Castra ha-buimus ea ipsa quae contra Darium habuerat apud Issum Alexander, imperator bandpaulo melior quam ant tu aut ego." Ad Atticum, 5. 20. Isaus, a rich and flourish­ing city in the time of Xenophon, was ruined by tbs prosperity of Alexandria, of(Scandaroon, on the oiher aids of the hay.