OCR Output CHAP. 32 ROMAN HISTORY. ( 449 I conjunction with the Salpenates,* they made an incursionupon the Roman lands, without the least provocation.War was then declared against both nations. In themean time, C. Julius, one of the censors, was carried off,and L. Cornelius substituted in his place; a thing after­wards deemed inauspicious, because Rome was taken inthat lustrum. Nor after this time did the Romans ever-substitute, in the place of a censor who died in his office,another person to be colleague to the survivor. Theconsuls too falling sick,'the senate decreed that theyshould abdicate, and an inter-regnurii ensue. The con­suls having therefore demitted in terms of the senate'sdecree, M. Furius Camillus was created inter-rex, andsucceeded by Cornelius Scipio, and he again by ValeriusPotitus^-who held the comitia, for the election of six mi­litary tribunes with consular power, that in case any ofthem should be seized with the distemper, the Republicmight never want magistrates. CHAP. XXXII. Tlie Volsinienses chastised. A prudigy. Camillus banished..". A. R. 361. V,/N the first of July, L. Lucretius, Servius Sulpicius, M..SLmilius, L. Furius Medullinus, a seventh, AgrippaFurius, and C. /Emilius, a second time, entered upon thatmagistracy. The war with the Volsinienses fed by lotto L. Lucretius and C. jEmilius; and with the Salpenatesto Agrippa Furius, and Servius Sutpicius. The first en­gagement they had was with the Volsinienses, who weremore formidable for their numbers -than their prowess.For they were routed and put to flight at the first onset,and 8000 men in arms being surrounded by the Romancavalry, laid down their arms and surrendered at discre­tion. The news of this battle cooled the ardour of the Sal­penates, so that they durst not appear in the field, but shutthemselves up, armed as they were, within their walls.The Romans pillaged both the Volsinran and Salpina- *-The Volsinienaes and Salpenates were both nations ofEtrurivThe former inhabited a considerable city, Volsinium, the capitalof one of the twelve Lucumonies, situated near the modern Bo­logna. Of Salpiaum nothing certain can be affirmed.