OCR Output AN. 153.] 457 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. dea, wrote to all his friends, both Jews andauxiliaries, that they should seize upon Jona­than, and bring him to him. But when, uponall their endeavours, they were not able toseize upon Jonathan, (for he was sensible ofthe snares they laid for him, and very care­fully guarded against them,) Bacchides wasangry at these deserters as having imposedupon him, and upon the king, and slew fiftyof their leaders. Thereupon Jonathan, withhis brother, and those that were with him,retired to Bethagla, a village that lay in thewilderness, out of his fear of Bacchides. Healso built towers in it, and encompassed itwith walls, and took care that it should besafely guarded. Upon the hearing of which,Bacchides led his own army along with him,and besides took his Jewish auxiliaries, andcame against Jonathan, and made an assaultupon his fortifications, and besieged himmany days. But Jonathan did not abate ofhis courage at the zeal Bacchides shewed inthe siege, but courageously opposed him.And while he left his brother Simon in thecity, to fight with Bacchides, he went pri­vately out into the country, and got a greatbody of men together of his own party, andfell upon Bacchides's camp in the night time,and destroyed a great many of them. Hisbrother Simon knew also of his falling uponthem; because he perceived that the ene­mies were slain by him: so he sallied outupon them, and burnt the engines which theMacedonians used, and made a great slaugh­ter of them. And when Bacchides saw him­self encompassed with enemies, he fell intodespair, as confounded at the unexpected illsuccess of this siege. However, he ventedhis displeasure at these misfortunes uponthose deserters who sent for him from theking; as having deluded him. So he had amind to finish this siege after a decent man­ner, if it were possible for him so to do, andthen to return home. * 1 Macc. ix. 72. t This Alexander Bala, who certainly pretended to bethe son of Antiochus Epiphanes, and was owned as suchby the Jews, and Romans, and many others, and yet is byseveral historians deemed to be an impostor; is, however,by Josephus, believed to have been the real son of thatAntiochus; and by him always spoken of accordingly.And truly since the original contemporary and authenticauthor of the first book of Maccabees x. 1. calls him byhis father's name, Epiphanes; and says he was the son of When Jonathan understood his intentions,he sent ambassadors to him about a leagueof friendship, and mutual assistance; andthat they might restore those whom they hadtaken captive on both sides. So Bacchidesthought this a decent way of retiring home;and made a league of friendship with Jona­than; by which it was mutually agreed thatthey would not any more make war oneagainst another. Accordingly he restored thecaptives, and took his own men with him, andreturned to the king to Antioch. And afterthis departure he never came into Judeaagain.* Then did Jonathan take the oppor­tunity of this quiet state of things, and wentand lived in the city Michmash; and theregoverned the multitude, and punished thewicked; and by that means purged the na­tion of them. CHAP. II. OF THE ADVANTAGES GRANTED TO JONATHAN, FIRST BYDEMETRIUS, AND AFTERWARDS BY ALEXANDER BALA, INORDER TO OBTAIN HIS ASSISTANCE; AND OF THE DEATHOF DEMETRIUS. NOW in the hundred and sixtieth year,Alexander, the tson of Antiochus Epi­phanes, came up into Syria, and took Ptole-mais 4 the soldiers within having betrayed itto him. For they were at enmity with De­metrius, on account of his insolence and dif­ficulty of access. For he shut himself up ina palace that had four towers; which he hadbuilt himself not far from Antioch, and ad­mitted nobody. He was also slothful, andnegligent about the public affairs: whichrendered him odious to his subjects. Whentherefore Demetrius heard that Alexanderwas in Ptolemais, he took his whole army,and led it against him: he also sent ambas­sadors to Jonathan, about a league of mutualassistance and friendship. For he resolvedto be beforehand with Alexander: lest the Antiochus, I suppose the other writers, who are all muchlater, are not to be followed against such evidence, thoughperhaps Epiphanes might have him by a woman of no fami­ly . The king of Egypt also, Philometor, soon gave him hisdaughter in marriage: which he would hardly have donehad he believed him to be a counterfeit, and of so mean abirth as the historians pretend. He is also called Biovarup,one of a divine lineage in the coins: as Spanheim assures.us. Nor does any original evidence appear against it.% 1 Macc. x. 1.