OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL desperate extremities; and the fortune of the stateseemed to depend on the prudence, as well as the in­tegrity, of the generals of Valens. At this importantcrisis, the military government of Thrace was exer­cised by Lupicinus and Maximus, in whose venalminds the slightest hope of private emolument out­weighed every consideration of public advantage, andwhose guilt was only alleviated by their incapacity ofdiscerning the pernicious effects of their rash and cri­minal administration. Instead of obeying the ordersof their sovereign, and satisfying, with decent libe­rality, the demands of the Goths, they levied an un­generous and oppressive tax on the wants of the hun­gry Barbarians. The vilest food was sold at an ex­travagant price; and, in the room of wholesome andsubstantial provisions, the markets were filled withthe flesh of dogs, and of unclean animals, who haddied of disease. To obtain the valuable acquisitionof a pound of bread, the Goths resigned the possessionof an expensive, though serviceable, slave; and asmall quantity of meat was greedily purchased withten pounds of a precious, but useless, metal*. Whentheir property was exhausted, they continued this ne­cessary traffic by the sale of their sons and daughters;and, notwithstanding the love of freedom which ani­mated every Gothic breast, they submitted to thehumiliating maxim, that it was better for their chil­dren to be maintained in a servile , condition, than toperish in a state of wretched and helpless independ­ence. The most lively resentment is excited by thetyranny of pretended benefactors, who sternly exactthe debt of gratitude which they have cancelled bysubsequent injuries: a spirit of discontent insensibly * Decern librus; the word silver must be understood. Jomandes betrays thepassions and prejudices of a Goth. The servile Greeks, Eunapius and Zosimus,disguise the Roman oppression, and execrate the perfidy of the Barbarians.Ammianus, a patriot historian,'slightly, and reluctantly, touches on the odioussubject. Jerom, who wrote almost on the spot, is fair, though concise. Peravaritiam Maximi ducis, ad rebellionem fame coacti sunt (in Chion.).