OCR Output 30 GOLD COIN. copper, a quinarius at five, and a sesterce at two and a half. Thestandard pound of copper was diminished in the first Punic war,when the republic was not able to bear its expenses; it was thenordered that the As should consist of one-sixth of a pound only.By this measure there was a gain of five parts out of six, and thedebt was consequently expunged. The device on this coin wasa double Janus on the one side, and a prow of a ship on the other;there was a ship on the triens and the quadrans ; the quadrans hadbeen previously called teruncius, from its consisting of three ounces.At a later period, when Hannibal was pressing upon M. Minucius,in the dictatorship of Q. Fabius Maximus, the value of the As wasreduced to one ounce; it was also ordered that the denarius shouldpass for sixteen Ases, a quinarius for eight, and a sesterce for four;by this means the republic made a profit of fifty per cent. Inpaying the soldiers, however, the denarius was always consideredequivalent to ten Ases. The device on the silver coins was achariot with two and with four horses; they were hence calledbigati and quadrigati. At length, by the Papirian law, the Aswas reduced to half an ounce. When Liv. Drusus was tribuneof the people, one-eighth part of copper was mixed with the silver.9The coin which is now called victoriatus was struck in obedienceto the Clodian law. It was previously brought from Illyricum asan article of commerce; it obtained its name in consequence of itshaving the figure of victory on it. Gold was coined sixty-two yearslater than silver; a scripulum * of gold was valued at 20 sesterces;so that according to the ratio which at that time subsisted betweenthe sesterces and the pound, a pound of gold would contain 900sesterces. Afterwards it was thought proper to make 40 denariito the pound of gold,2 and by degrees their weight was still farther t Dr. Thomson found that the denarius coined in the time of the republicwas composed of pure silver, but that a denarius of the emperor Domitiancontained 19.2 per cent of copper; Nich. Journ. xiv. 405, 6. 1 The scripulum was the l-288th part of the as or libra, correspondingexactly with the modern scruple; see Wurm, p. 9. » It would appear that the Romans proceeded upon very arbitrary prin­ciples in their mode of estimating the value of their current coins, with re­spect to the comparative value of the metals, as well as of the same metalsat different periods; 900 sesterces are equal to 7l. 10s.; while 40 denarii areequal only to 1/. 5s. 10d.; see Adam, p. 492 et seq. Herodotus informsus, that in his time, the value of gold was thirteen times that of silver; iii. 95.In this country the value of gold is a little more than fifteen times that ofsilver. See Wurm, sec. 25, for the comparative value of gold and silveramong the Romans.