OCR Output ROMA. 745 ROMA. Vneaf. A. C. 22; Marcell. Citron, p. 54.) Totila:r raltaed to destroy Uie finest works of antiquity,ad evea issued a decree that Rome should be turnedtU a puture. Yet he was not deficient in magna-tauty aad clemency, and was diverted from theser»i£iu bv the remonstrances of Itelisarius, whok-T.nl him not to sally his fame bj such wantonirbaritv. Upon Totila's marching into Lucania,at the head of 1000 horse, cut his way■ch the Goths who had been left to guardeily. Be repaired with rude and hetero-materials the walls which had been de-; whilst the gates, which could not be soy restored, were guarded by his bravest eol-ara> TscU returned to Rome bj forced marches,•t was thrice repulsed in three general assaults,■i tar.oa, however, being commanded by Justinian| • sad into Lucania, left a garrison of 30O0 ofI test troops at Rome under the command of»C asa The city was again betrayed by someimsM is 549, who opened the gate of St. l'aulTetda and bis Goths. Totila. who seems now to* najsaiered himself as in confirmed possessionItaly, ao longer exhibited any desire to destroy■ xhScaa of Rome, which be regarded as they sal af his kingdom, and he even exhibited thematrmM games in the Circus. (Procop. //. G. It,) But in 552 he was defeated and slain by theisr» Xanes in the battle of Tagina. Names- rarefied to Rome, and once more sent its keysAxtmsaa. during whose reign the city had beena>«w than five tiroes taken and recovered. (//>.—34; Tbeoph. C'knm. vol. i. p. 354, ed. Bonn.)Aaaaa aiufii the Popes. — Towards the closeiu sixth century Rome had touched the lowestr. if degradation. The Roman citizens lived 0 xxiaa! fear of the attacks of the Lombards;xhahitaots of the surrounding country, who hearer dared to devote themselves to the pur- • ef apiculture, took refuge within the walls; 1 the Campagna of Rome became a desert,time iaiectioas vapours. The indigence and rr^Lacr of a great part of the inhabitantsland a rapid decrease of population, thoughr sranty numbers did not protect them fromaw The edifices of Rome fell into decay; andI -wnsaaulj believed that Pope Gregory the Great,»SM the papal chair from 590 to 604, purposelyk«1 the temples and mutilated the statues,—aass. h—am, which rests on doubtful evidence,vfcka haa been strenuously repelled by Gregory'sI . ,!;! i up Kivlc, Orri/uire Itr.). Bur-av ia has vpiatle on the subject (in Graevius,»- <■!. tbL iv.X says that tbeCircusMaximus, kataa aasl theatres, were certainly overthrownrsnfiy, and that this is particularly evident insalias af Caracalla and Diocletian (p. 1885).a'tr.batea thitf, as a merit, to Gregory and one • > KJaaeqaent popes, and assigns as a reasonthe asBtaaf were nothing but schools of licen- aweat (p. 1889, seq.) It seems more probable,Mf tbax tire destruction of the baths arosetar fail a re of the aqueducts — a circumstancek wtadti have rendered them useless — and fromtxaaawav <sf keeping them up. Bargaeus himselfbalsa the) rain Of 'be aqueducts to the lattertip, 1891); bat they must also have sufferedsrauali ia the Gothic wars. Hence perliapsksusw iWralatkais of the thermae, having be-»ii<rtb<v tweleaa, be ran to be used as stonewbicb would uccount for the appearance of wilful damage. That ruin hadmade great progress at Rome before the time ofGregory, is manifest from some passages in his ownworks in which he deplores it. Thus in one of hishomilies be says: "Qualis remanserit Roma, con-spicimus. Immensis doloribus multiplicity attrita,desolatione civium, impressione hostium, frequentlyruinarvm." And again: "Quid autem ista dehominibus dicimus, cum minis crebresccntibus ipsaquoque dust mi aedificia videmus?" (Horn. 18 inEtech, ap. Donatum, de Urbe Roma, i. 28, sub fin.)He would hardly have written thus had he himselfbeen the cause of these ruins. The charge probablyacquired strength from Gregory's avowed antipathyto classical literature. Whilst the dominion of Italy was divided betweenthe Lombards and the exarchs of Itavenna, Romewas the head of a duchy of almost the same sizeas her ancient territory, extending from Vitcrbo toTerracina, and from Nami to the mouth of theTiber. The fratricide Constans II. is said to haveentertained the idea of restoring the seat of empireto Rome (a. d. 662). (//£<(. Mite. ap. Muratori,Scrip. R. I. iii. pt. i. p. 137.) But the Lombardpower was too strong; and, after a visit of a fewdays to the ancient capital, he abandoned it for ever,after pillaging the churches and carrying off thebronxe roof of the Pantheon. (Schloaser, Geich.d. bitder'iturmenden Kaiser, p. 80.) In the eighthcentury the Romans revived the style of the Re­public, but the Popes had become their chief ma­gistrates. During this period Rome was constantlyharassed and suffered many sieges by the Lombardsunder Luitprand, Astolphus, and other kings. In846 the various measure of its calamities was filledup by an attack of the Saracens—as if the formermistress of the world was destined to be the buttof wandering barbarians from all quarters of theglobe. The disciples of Mahomet pillaged the churchof St. Peter, as well as that of St. Paul outside thePorta Ostiensis, but did not succeed in entering thecity itself. They were repulsed by the vigilanceand energy of pope Leo IV., who repaired the an­cient walls, restored fifteen towers which had beenoverthrown, and enclosed the quarter of the Vutican;on which in 852 he bestowed his blessing and thetitle of Citta Leonma, or Leonine city (now theBorgo di S. Pietro). (Anastasius, V. Leon. IV.)In the period between 1081 and 1084 Rome wasthrice fruitlessly besieged by the emperor Henry IV,who, however, by means of corruption at last suc­ceeded in gaining possession of it; but the ruins ofthe SepUzonium, defended by the nephew of PopeGregory VII., resisted all the attacks of Henry'sforces. Gregory shut himself up in the castle ofS. Angelo, and invoked the assistance of his vassal,Robert Guiacard. Henry fled at the approach of thewarlike Xorman; but Rome suffered more at the handsof its friends than it had ever before done from theassaults of its enemies. A tumult was excited bythe imperial adherents, and the Saracens in Robert'sarmy, who despised both parties, seized the oppor­tunity for violence and plunder. The city was f.red;a great part of the buildings on the Campus Martins,as welt as the spacious district from the Lateranto the Colosseum, was consumed, and the latterportion has never since been restored. (Mulaterra,iii. c. 37; Donatus, iv. 8.) But Rome has suffered more injury from her owncituens than from the hands of foreigners; and itsruin must be chiefly imputed to the civil dissensions