OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 11? while the public attention was deeply engaged by twomost important wars. 31. The consuls adjusting the provinces betweenthem, the Samnites fell by lot to Junius, the new warof Etruria to /Emilias. In the country of the former,the Samnites finding themselves unable to take Cluvia,a Roman garrison, by force, had formed a blockade,and reduced it by famine to capitulate; and, aftertorturing with stripes in a shocking manner the towns­men who surrendered, had put them to death. En­raged at this cruelty, Junius determined to postponeevery thing else to the attacking of Cluvia; and, on thefirst day that he assaulted the walls, took it by storm,and slew all who were grown to man's estate. Thevictorious troops were led from thence to Bovianum ;this was the capital of the Pentrian Samnites, by farthe most opulent of their cities, and the most powerfulboth in men and arms. The soldiers, stimulated bythe hope of plunder, soon made themselves masters ofthe town: where, their resentment being less violent,there was less severity exercised on the enemy; but aquantity of spoil was carried off, greater almost thanhad ever been collected out of all Samnium, and thewhole was liberally bestowed on the assailers. TheSamnites now perceiving that the Romans possessedsuch a superiority in arms, that no force in the field,no camp, no cities, could withstand them, bent theirwhole attention to find out an opportunity of acting bystratagem. They conceived that the enemy, proceedingwith incautious eagerness in pursuit of plunder, might,on such occasion, be caught in a snare and overpowered.Some peasants who deserted, and some prisoners whowere taken, (part of them being purposely thrown in theway, while others were met by accident,) concurred intheir report to the consul, which at the same time wastrue, that a vast quantity of cattle had been driven to­gether into a certain defile of difficult access, and bywhich he was induced to lead thither the legions lightlyaccoutred, in order to seize the prey. Here a-verynumerous army of the enemy had posted themselves