OCR Output MODIN. 365 MOEBIS LACUS. those days a mere village, or at least a dependencyof Mediolanum; but the Gothic king Theodoricconstructed a palace there, and made it his summerresidence. It continued to be a favourite abode ofthe Lombard kings, and Queen Theodolinda foundeda Basilica there, which has ever since been one ofthe most celebrated churches in the N. of Italy, andstill contains many interesting relics of the cele­brated Lombard queen. (P. Disc. But. Lang. iv.22. 49.) [E. H. B.] MODIN (Mutttu, LXX.; MwSe'1/1, Mwom.V,Joseph.; M noWp, Euseb.).the residence of Mattathias,the {mat grandson of Asamonaeus, and the father ofJodas Maccabaeus and his four valiant brothers, whons however only a sojourner at Modin, being anative of Jerusalem, and a priest of the course ofJoarih. It was probably the native place of the sons, asit was also their burying-place. Here it was that thefirst opposition to the impious edict of AntiochusEpiphanes was made, when Mattathias slew withhis own band the renegade Jew who had offeredidolatrous sacrifice, and demolished the altar. (Jos.Ant xii. 8. §§ 1, 2.) Judas was buried there in thesepulchre of his father (lb. 11. §27); and subse­quently on the death of Jonathan, Simon erected amonument of white polished marble over their graves,which be raised to a great height, so as to be con-spicaous from afar, and surrounded with a monolithiccolonnade. In addition to this, he raised sevenpyramids, one fir each of the family, remarkableboth for their size and beauty, which remaineduntil the age of the historian (xiii. 6. § 5, comp.1 Mace. xiii. 27—30), as indeed Eusebius and S.Jerome affirm that the sepulchres of the Maccabeeswere shown there at their day. (Onomasr. s. ».)Josephus (xiL 6. § 1) simply calls it a village ofJudaea; but the last-cited authors speak of it as avillage near to Diospolis (Lydda). The author ofthe 1st Book of Maccabees writes that upon the pil­lars which were set about the pyramids, Simon* made all their armour for a perpetual memory, andby the armour ships caned, that they might be seenof all that sail on the sea." (xiii. 28, 29.) Thiswould imply that these pyramids were not very fardistant from the sea, and so far confirm the reportof Eosebius and S. Jerome, who place the sepul­chres in the vicinity of Lydda, and perhaps affordssame countenance to the idea that the name " Mac-cabee" was derived from the root 3pD the finalradicals of the names of the three patriarchs Abra­ham, Isaac, and Jacob, which the tribe of Dan, onwhose borders Modin was situated, are said to havecarried on their banner. (Keland, i.v. p. 901.) Acomparatively modem tradition has placed Modin ona remarkable conical hill, named Svba, i\ hoursfn«n Jerusalem, on the left of the Jaffa road; butthis is, as Dr. Knbinson has remarked "several hoursuutant from the plain, upon the mountains, andwholly shut out from any view of the sea." {Bib.foi rii ii. p. 329.) He suggests that it may haveban at Ldtron, which is also on the Jaffa road, ontoe very verge of the plain (Ibid, note 4, and vol. iii.r 30, z. 4.) But this is too far from Lydda, and so*ar t» Nicopolia [F.mhaus, 2.] that Eusebius wouldUKjothss have described it by its vicinity to that"tj, rather than to Diospolis. Its site has vet tou »*'ui:bt [G. W.] MODOGALINGA (Plin.vi. 19. ». 22), one of thelatTK bland* in the Delta of the Ganges. Calinga isof frequent occurrence in the ancient notices of India.[Cauxoa.] [V.] MODOGULLA (MotiyovMa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 83),a town mentioned by Ptolemy, on the western sideof Hindustan. It is probably the present Modgull,at no great distance from Calliany. [V.] MODOMA'STICE (Mo5ojio<7TMCt|, Ptol. vi. 6.§ 2), one of the four divisions into which Ptolemydivides the province of Carmania Deserta (nowKirmdn). [V.] MODBA (to1 MdJpa), a small town, which, ac­cording to Strabo (xii. p. 543), was situated inPhrygia Epictetus, at the Bourees of the river Gal-lus; but as this river flows down from the northernslope of mount Olympus, which there forms theboundary between Phrygia and Bithynia, Strabomust be mistaken, and Modra probably belonged tothe south-west of Bithynia, and was situated at ornear the modern Aim Gevl. (Paul. Lucas, Sec. Voy.i. 14.) As Strabo's expression is ix M6Spuv, somehave supposed that Modra was no town at all, butonly a name of a district; but it is known fromConstantine Porpbyrogenitus (rfe Them, vi.) thatthe district about Modra was called Modrene. [L S.]MODUBAE (Plin. vi. 19. s. 22), one of severalunknown tribes or nations placed by Pliny beyondthe Ganges, in that part of India which was ancientlycalled India extra Gangem. [V.] MODUTiA (Moooupa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 89.) Thereare two places of this name mentioned in the ac­counts of ancient India: one described by Ptolemy(I. c.) as fSaaiktiov Tlavtiovos, the Palace of KingPandion; and the other as MSSovpa tj rvv Sciov,the Sacred Modoura (vii. 1. § 50). The former ofthese towns was in the southern part of HindoMn,and is most probably the present ruined city, Ma­dura; the second was in the land of the Cospeiraeiin the NW. part of India, either on the frontier orin the Panjdb. Its exact position cannot now bedetermined. [V.] MODUTTI (MoSoottou <u*6piov, Ptol. vii. 4.§ 7), a port in the island of Tapr»bane or Ceylon,mentioned by Ptolemy. The strong resemblance ofthe name makes it extremely probable that it is thesame with the present Mantotte, where there arestill the remains of a great city, and where a greatnumber of Boman coins of the times of the Antonineshave been dug up. It appears to have been situatedat the northern point of the island. The inhabitantswere called Mo5ovttoi. [V.] MOENUS (the Main), a navigable river of Ger­many, which has its sources in the Sudeti Montes,near the town of Menosgada, and after flowing in awestern direction through the country of the Her-mundnri and the Agri Decumates, empties itself intothe Bhine,a little aboveMoguntiacum (Plin. ix. 17;Mela, iii. 3. § 3; Amm. Marc. xvii. 1; Tac. Germ. 28;Eumcn. Paneg. Constant. 13.) [L. S.] MOEBIS LACUS (v Mo/o.or \ipnrn, Herod, ii.13, 148, seq.; Diod. i. 52; MolpiSoj Klurn, Strab.xviii. p. 810; Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 20, 36; Moeris Lacns,Mela, i. 9. § 5; Moeridia, Plin. v. 9. s. 9), was the mostextensive and remarkable of all the Aegyptian lakes.It formed the western boundary of the Arainoitenome [ARstNOK.] in Middle Aegypt, and was con­nected with the Nile by the canal of Joseph (Ilahr-Jusuf). A portion of its ancient bed is repre­sented by the modern Birket-el- Kert'in. Of all theremarkable objects in a land so replete with wonders,natural and artificial, as Aegypt, the lake of Moeriswas the most enigmatical to the ancients. Herodot us(ii. 149), who is followed by Pliny (v. 9. s. 9),'regarded it as the work of man, and ascribes it to a