OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 315 < the principles of commerce were so imperfectly understood, themost desirable end might perhaps be effected by harsh and injudi­cious means; but a temporary grievance of such a nature canscarcely excite and support a serious civil war. The repeti­tion of intolerable taxes, imposed either on the land or on thenecessaries of life, may at last provoke those who will not, or whocannot, relinquish their country. But the case is far otherwise inevery operation which, by whatsoever expedients, restores the justvalue of money. The transient evil is soon obliterated by the per­manent benefit, the loss is divided among multitudes; and if a fewwealthy individuals experience a sensible diminution of treasure, withtheir riches they at the fame time lose the importance. HoweverAurelian might chuse to disguise the real cause of the insurrection*his reformation of the coin could furnish only a faint pre­tence to a party already powerful and discontented. Rome, thoughdeprived of freedom, was distracted by faction. The people, to­wards whom the emperor, himserf a plebeian, always expressed apeculiar fondness, lived in perpetual dissension with the senate, theequestrian order, and the Prætorian guards''. Nothing less thanthe firm though secret conspiracy of those orders, of the authorityof the first, the wealth of the second, and the arms of the third,could have displayed a strength capable of contending in battle withthe veteran legions of the Danube, which, under the conduct of amartial sovereign, had atchieved the conquest of the West and ofthe East. Whatever was the cause or the object of this rebellion, imputed Cruelty ofwith so little probability to the workmen of the mint, Aurelian usedbia victory with unrelenting rigour 9\ He was naturally of asevere'disposition. A peaiant and a soldier, his nerves yielded noteasily to the impressions of sympathy, and he could sustain withoutemotion the sight of tortures and death. Trained from his earliestyouth in the exercise of arms, he set too siaall a value 00 the life of Aurelian.