OCR Output A. D. 19.] 137 OF TACITUS. of antiquity would be sufficient honour. The eques足trian order came to a resolution, that the troop calledthe youthful squadron should for the future take itsname from Germanicus; and that his image shouldbe carried at the head of their annual cavalcade, onthe ides of July. Of these several institutions, manyare still subsisting; some fell into disuse; and othersby length of time have been abolished. LXXXIV. While the tears of the public,still flowedfor Germanicus, Livia, the sister of that prince, andthe wife of Drusus, was delivered of two sons at abirth. In families of inferior rank, events of this kindare rare, and always matter of joy. Tiberius wastransported beyond measure. He had the vanity toboast before the senate, that so singular a blessing hadnever happened to any Roman of equal dignity. Itwas the policy of that subtle spirit to extract fromevery occurrence, and even from chance, somethingthat tended to his own glory. The people, however,did not sympathize with the emperor. They saw,with regret, the family of Drusus increasing, and thatof Germanicus in danger of being eclipsed. IjXXXV. In the course of this year, several decreesagainst the licentiousness of female manners passedthe senate. It was ordained by a law, that no womanwhose grandfather, father or husband was a Romanknight, should be allowed to make her person venal.The profligacy of Vistilia, descended from a father ofpraetorian rank, gave rise to this regulation. She pre足sented herself before the sediles, and in form made apublic profession of lewdness, according to> the ruleestablished in ancient times, when women, registeredas harlots by the magistrate, had the privilege of lead足ing a life of debauchery. The principle of that lawwas, that the very act of professing the character ofa prostitute would be a punishment, and perhapsoperate as a restraint. Titideus Labeo, the husbandof Vistilia, was cited to assign a reason why so aban足doned a woman had not been brought to condignpunishment. To exculpate himself, he alleged thatthe sixty days, allowed by law for the consultationsnecessary in matters of that nature, were not elapsed. M2