OCR Output POTHEBEUS.PRAENESTE. 063 «ojnl mc In the early apes of Christianity; and • lane of its decay or destruction seems to be uu-•m ; but the sit* is now wholly deserted. Con-ccxbk remains of the ancient city were still visi-« m the time of Uolstenios in the plain on the-.■it bank of the I'otensa, near its month; and theOf is still retained by an ancient church andMi called Sta Maria a Potenza, about a milea the /Wto di Jieamati. (Hols ten. Ab<. wiaw. p. 134.) (nirrtmo. Ptol.: Elk. Potenlinus: Potenza),::j >A the interior of Lucania, situated in the>■«; of the Camientus or Baziento, nut fur from'wcrce, and above 60 miles from the gulf ofawuai. So mention of it occurs in history, andaarji it is noticed by Pliny, Ptolemy, and theif ColonianuTj, among the municipal towns ofsssa, we hare no indication of its superior im-rtaaca. But from the numerous inscriptions dis-nmj there, it is evident that it was, under thenu empire, a flourishing municipal town, and: it that period have been one of the most con-m Lucania, the towns of that provincerjj for the most part fallen into great decay.»Iriaeraries give us two lines of road passing'.ach lJi<entix, the one from Venusia southwards'«•■» GrumrDtnm ai.d Nerulum, the other frommtB and the valley of the Silarus, which appears'■sir been continued in the direction of Taroutum.at in. IL a. 15; Ptol. iii. 1. § 70; Lib. Col.M; Itm. Ant. p. 104; Tab. I'eut.; Mommsent .V. pp. 23. 24.) The m«lern city of Potenzatar capital of the Barilicata, a province which■-trot* ihe greater part of the ancient Lucania:k»> aot ocenpy precisely the site of the ancienta. the remains of which are visible at a placeK La Uwrato, in the valley below the modernL (Banametli, vol. i. p. 435.) [E. H. B.]MlfclEKEL'S, a river of Crete mentioned bynma» (L A\ is identified by some with the Ca- of itolemy. [Catakbhactes.]ViTIDAEA. (Cassakdkkia.JVTLDA'NlA(noTuWn: Eth noTioandnit),a■ J Aetoiia Epictetus, on the borders of Locris,-u day s march from Oeneon. (Thuc. iii. 96;.iXTitL I; Steph. B. $. v.)•ilNUt (noiTiai: Et/u. tlorvitit, fein. nor-\ » riiiage of Boeotia, on the road from Thebes'a^ca, dutant 10 stadia from the former city.»- in rains in the time of Pausanias, and con-sd s rruve sacred to Demeter and Cora (Proser­in PstmM is celebrated in mythology as theis torn to pieces by his(Xen. UelL v. 4. § 51; Paus. ix.| I. 3; Steph. B. #. r.; Plin. xxv. 8. a. 53;f. Gmrj. in. 26S; Ov. Ibu, 557; Vict, ofr art- Glai'CUS.) According to Strabo (p. • M.-nm authorities regarded Potniae as the Hy-■aw of Homer (IL ii. 505). Gell places Potniae • tr-rboourbood of the modern village of Taii.K itmrrary. p. 110; comp. Leake, Nurtlternaw. ni. ix. p. 323.) SUASPA. [PlIKAATA.] KAXTIUS (npArrmi), a small river in thea at Tr»«. tWing from Mount Ida. and dis-T3X >?>rlf into tlie Hellespont a little belowMa. (Baa*. IL ii 835; Strab. ziii. p. 590;ue, Atta. L 12. § 6.) Some identify it with»c«b baroru, and others with the Mutkakoi- [L.S.] ttLSESTE (IJ/wWrof, Strab. Appiaii; UpalKOTc, Dion Cass.: Eth. npaivio-TU'Of, ornpaivtoryvos, Praenestinus: Palestrina), one ofthe most ancient, as well as in early times oneof the most powerful and important, of the ci­ties of Latium. It was situated on a projectingpoint or spur of the Apennines, directly oppo­site to the Alban Hills, and nearly due E. ofRome, from which it was distant 23 miles.(Strab. v. p. 238; Itin. Ant. p. 302; Westphal,ROmische Kampagne, p. 106.) Various mythicaltales were current in ancient times as to its founderand origin. Of these, that adopted by Virgil as­cribed its foundation to Cneculus, a refuted son ofVulcan (Virg. Aen. vii. 678); and this, we learnfrom Solinus, was the tradition preserved by thePraenestines themselves (Solin. 2. § 9). Anothertradition, obviously of Greek origin, derived itsname and foundation from 1'raenestus, a son ofLatinus, the offspring of Ulysses and Circe (Steph.B. t. v.; Solin. I.e.). Strabo also calls it a Greekcity, and tells us that it was previously callednoAuo-re^aKof (Strab. v. p. 238). Another formof the same name name is given by Pliny (iii. 5.8. 9),who tells us its original name was Slephane. Andfinally, as if to complete the series of contradictions,its name is found in the lists of the reputed colonies ofAlba, the foundation of which is ascribed to LatinusSilvius (Vict. Orig. Gent. limn. 17; Diod. vii. 071.[ Eustb. Arm. p. 185). But there seems no doubtthat the earlier traditions were those which assignedit a more ancient and independent origin. Thefirst mention of its name in history is in the list ofthe cities of the Latin League, as given by Diony-sius, and there can be no doubt of its having formedan important member of that confederacy, (l)ionys.v. 61.) But as early as B.C. 499, according toI.ivy, it quitted the cause of the confederates andjoined the Romans, an event which that historianplaces just before the battle of Regillus. (Liv. ii.19.) Whether its separation from the rest of theLatins was permanent or not, we have no inform­ation; but on the next occasion when the name ofl'raeneste occurs, it was still in alliance with Rome,and suffered in consequence from the ravages of theAequians and Volscians, b. c. 462 (Liv. iii. 8).The capture of Home by the Gauls seems, however,to have introduced a change in the relations of thetwo cities. Shortly after that event (b. c. 383) thePraenestines are mentioned as making hostile in­cursions into the territories of the Gabians andLabicanB: the Romans at first treated this breach offaith with neglect, apparently from unwillingness toprovoke so powerful an enemy; but the next year,the Praenestines having sent an anny to the supportof the revolted colonists of Velitrae, war was for­mally declared against them. The Praenestines nowjoined their former enemies the Volscians, and, inconjunction with them, took by storm the Romancolony of Satricum. (Liv. vi. 21, 22.) The nextyear the Volscians were defeated in a great battleby Cainillus, but no mention is made of the Prae­nestines as taking part in it. The following season,however (11. c. 380), they levied a large anny, andtaking advantage of the domestic dissensions atHome, which impeded the levying of troops, theyadvanced to the very gates of the city. From thencethey withdrew to the hanks of the Allia, where Ihrywere attacked and defeated by T. Quintius Cinciu-natus, who had been named in all haste dictator.So complete was their rout that they not only fledin coulusiun to the very gates of Praeneste, but u u 4