OCR Output 19 3 ±JiE HI STORY BOOK already made fome progrefs, fhould, as fpeedily aS.. ^r^_. poffible, be ripened into a perfect union between theY.R. 175. plebeians and patricians. In the beginning of thefc.C. 477. ycar therefore he propofed, that " before any tri-"bune fhould ftand forth to prefs the agrarian"law, the fenate Ihould feize the opportunity, and"take to themfelves the merit of conferring that fa-"vour: that they fhould diftribute among the com-*' mons, in as equal proportion as pofiible, the lands"taken from their enemies: for it was but juft that"they fhould enjoy them, by whofe blood and fweae"they had been acquired." The fenate rejectedthe propofal with dildain; fome of them even com­plained, that the talents of Czfo, formerly fo brilli­ant, were, through a furfeit of glory, become heavyand languid. No difputes enfued between the fac­tions in the city. The Latines were haraffed by in-Curfions of the .fliquans; Caefo being fent thither,•with an army, retaliated on the ,Equans, by ravag­ing their territories. They retired into the towns,and kept themfelves within the walls j confequently,there was no battle of any importance. But, fromthe arms of the Veientians, a feverer blow was re­ceived, through the rafhnefs of the other conful j andthe army would have been utterly deftroyed, had notCaefo Fabius arrived feafonabiy to its fupport. Fromthat time there was neither peace, nor war, with theVeientians. Their proceedings were more like thofecf a banditti, than any thing elfe* On the approachof the Roman legions, they retreated into the town*and when they underftood that the legions werewithdrawn, they made incurfions into the Country;fhifting alternately, from war, to quiet, and fromquiet, to war. For this reafon, that bufinefs couldneither be entirely neglected, nor brought to a con-clufion. There was realbn alfo to apprehend otherwars, two of which were juft ready to break out, withthe ./Equans and Volfcians, who only kept them­felves quiet, until the frcfh fmart of their late dif- after