OCR Output OXYBII. 507 OXYRYXCHUS. A Om formerly fell into the gulf of Balkan. He. ;ix aaihor of lit story that the Turkomans, in theof prtvrating the diminution of its waters in the::-f*r jar; of it* course, dammed up the mouth ofirmr. Etilence still more positive of the de'-ixbt icto the Caspian of a considerable riveritri »now itry, is afforded by observations on thenuart. putiiularlj in the ftiy 0/ Balkan. Thearia*, if Ibex is the survey of that bay by CaptainWmft, in I "■(3, by order of Nadir Shall, who'j-> Jown 1st embouchure of a river which hera takl vat the Oxus. (Hanway, Trav. vol. i. p.n > Tie accuracy of his survey has been con-irt*l b; the more elaborate investigations of themrejron, the results of which are embodiedaiatPtriplpj of the Caspian compiled by Eichwald(ill Gaojr. d. Gup. Mteret, Berlin, 1838), andtm lean no doubt that a river, which could have« ts «/ier tJian the Oxus, formerly entered theCupu u the SE. of the Bat) of Balkan by twow»tt: in one of these there are still pools of water;aw Mass dry. How far they may be traceable II rrt to be ascertained; but enough has beeni»l 10 justify the belief of the ancient world, (fit* wn a channel of communication be-lain and Vi. Asia. The ancients describeM approaching the river from Bactra,»u dUanl from it 400 stadia; their estimate•met, and there are no fables about the breadthu» 5». Arrian, who follows Aristobulus, sayst »ai 6 stadia. The very topography of themay almost be traced in Curtius; forn low and peaked hillocks near that passageUna, while there are none below KUef. He'•iat the Oxos was a muddy river that boreas <lmt along with it; and Burnes (vol. ii. p. 7)tiatoue-fortietbof the stream is clay suspended•Mr. Folvbius' (i c.) statement about the im-eoarae of the river and of its falls is untrue,■awl is remarkably free from rocks, rapids,|t viiripjok Ha has a strange story about ther 1 which the Aspasii enter Hyrcania, eithertl» rauh formed by the fall of the watersStab, p. 5o). or over its submerged stream. III fopukr belief that the waters of the AralIf • icixerraneous channel to the Caspian. At ^ d'lcatUt, where the caravans halt, betweenwas, h is said by sotne that the water israting beneath. (Burn»s, vol. ii. p. 188.)■tiajies tu which Von Humboldt (Atie Cen-'•± A pp. 162— 197) arrived as to the phy-**« which may have interrupted the connec-the Caspian and the Oxus are given■tela Jaxakt&s. For all that concernsawiam gvfraphy of the basin of the Oxus,w*wss of our countrymen, to whom we owe4 • k real knowledge of these countries,i b araltal—Eli>hinstone, Bumes, Wood,Professor Wilson (A riana, pp. 142 —aas listed this long-vexed question with■Kay, uA shown that there is every reasonthe statements of the ancients that»aa axt the great highway of nations,at ea?v access to the great Aralo-Caspian wawJE.B.J.] 111 ( OiiKtotX u a part of the Ligyes," as 1 arya («.«.), on the authority of Qua-Stnia (p. 185) terminates his description^ a«afGalha Sarbonensis, in which he pro-*«rt l» east, by mentioning the harbour* cailnl from the Oxybii Ligyes. The Oxybii were a Lignrian people on the south coast ofGallia Narbonensis; but it is not easy to fix theirposition precisely. They were west of the Var andnot far from it, and they were near to or borderedon the Deciates. The Oxybii had a town Aegitna,but its position is unknown. A brief sketch of thehistory of this people is written under Dkciatks.Pliny (iii. c 4) places the Oxybii east of the Ar-genteus river (Argents) and west of the Deciates.The Oxybii, therefore, occupied the coast east fromFrejus as far as the border of the Deciates, whobad the remainder of the coast to the Var. An-tipolis (Antibei) was in the country of the De­ciates. [G. L.] OXYDRACAE ('OJuSotwai), a great nation oftho Panjdb, who, with the Malli, occupied the batiksof the Hydaspes and Acesines, and strenuously re­sisted the advance of Alexander through their coun­try. It was a common belief of the ancients, thatit was in a battle with these people that Ptolemysaved the life of Alexander, and hence obtained thename of Soter. (Steph. B.) Arrian, however,transfers the story to the siege of the Malli (Mul-(tin), where Alexander was in imminent danger ofhis life and was severely wounded (vi. 11), Thename is written in different ways by differentwriters. Thus Strabo writes it Sydrocae (xv. p.701), in which Pliny concurs (xii. 6), who makestheir country the limit of Alexander's advance east­ward; in Diodorns they appear under tbe form ofSyracusae (xvii. 98); lastly, in Orosius as Saba-grae (iii. 19). The name is clearly of Indian ori­gin; hence it has been conjectured by Pott, thatthe titles commencing in this manner represent theHellenized form of the Sanscrit Csathro (king) cor­responding with the Zend Ceathra. (Pott, Etgm.Fortch. p. lxvii.) [V.] OXYDRANCAE ('0{uo>a7«:at), a tribe of an­cient Sogdiana, appear to have occupied the districtto the N. of the Oxus, between that river and theJaxartes. (Ptol. vi. 12. § 4.) [V.] OXYMAGIS ('0{tlfi07tr, Arrian, Indie. 4), ariver which flowed into the Ganges, according toArrian, in the territory of the Pazalae. The samepeople are mentioned by Pliny (vi. 19) and Ptolemy(vii. 2. § 15) under the name of Passalae; and maybe identified with the Sanscrit Pankala, and asdwelling near Canjacubga, in the plain country be­tween the Sumna and the Ganges. In the im­mediate neighbourhood is the river Ixumtiti, whichhas been doubtless Graecized into Oxumagis. TheSanscrit appellation means "abounding in sugar­cane," which applies perfectly to the land throughwhich it flows. (Of. Ritter, Alien, ii. p. 847;Schwanbeck, Fragm. Megaslhenu, p. 28.) [V.] OXY'NEIA ('Ofuf(io), a town of Tbessaly,situated on the Ion, a tributary of the Peneius, andperhaps the capital of the Talares, occupied pro­bably the valley of Miritza. It is described byStrabo as distant 120 stadia from Azorus. (Strab.vii. p. 327; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ivp. 279.) OXYRYXCHUS ('Oftipiryxor, Strab. xvii. p.812; Ptol. iv. 5. § 59; Steph. B. 1. v.; Amm. Marc,xxii. 16; Oxyrinchum, It. Anton, p. 157. ed. Par.they: Eth. '0{opn7X'T)i "as the chief town oftbe Xomoa Oxyrynchites, in Lower Aegypt. Theappellation of the nome and its capital was derivedfrom a fish of the sturgeon species (^ccipeiwerSturio, Linnaeus; Atlien. vii. p. 312), which was anobject of religious worship, and had a temple dedi­