OCR Output C. V.] THE TEMPLE. 187 natural magnanimity. In the first place, the rock itself wascovered over with smooth pieces of stone, from its foundation,both for ornament, and that any one, who would either tryto get up or to go down it, might not be able to hold his feetupon it. Next to this, and before you come to the edifice ofthe tower itself, there was a wall three cubits high; but with足in that wall all the space of the tower of Antonia itself wasbuilt upon, to the height of forty cubits. The inward partshad the largeness and form of a palace, it being parted intoall kinds of rooms and other conveniences, such as courtsand places for bathing, and broad spaces for camps; inso足much that, by having all conveniencies that cities wanted, itmight seem to be composed of several cities, but by itsmagnificence it seemed a palace ; and as the entire structureresembled that of a tower, it contained also four other dis足tinct towers at its four corners ; whereof the others were butfifty cubits high, whereas that which lay upon the south-eastcorner was seventy cubits high, that from thence the wholetemple might be viewed: but on the corner where it joinedto the two cloisters of the temple, it had passages down tothem both, through which the guards (for there always layin this tower a Roman legion,) went several ways among thecloisters, with their arms, on the Jewish festivals, in order towatch the people, that they might not there attempt to makeany innovations; for the temple was a fortress that guardedthe city, as was the tower of Antonia a guard to the temple;and in that tower were the guards1 of those three. Therewas also a peculiar fortress belonging to the upper city, whichwas Herod's palace; but for the hill Bezetha, it was dividedfrom the tower of Antonia, as we have already told you; andas that hill on which the tower of Antonia stood was thehighest of these three, so did it adjoin to the new city, andwas the only place that hindered the sight of the temple onthe north. And this shall suflice at present to have spokenabout the city, and the walls about it, because I have pur足posed to myself to make a more accurate description of itelsewhere. 1 Those three gnards that lay in the tower of Antonia must be those thatguarded the city, the temple, and the tower of Antonia.