OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 815 hriagttalht temple of PvuicmA Patricia, itr.tk it objecwd that there was in fact no suchtop*, avi that we are to assume only a statue<rj aa ilur (Stelae, Gach. d. S.Rom, i. p. 365).ri.u Better remarks (llaiulb. p. 4S0, note 100),Lm himxJf (i. 23) not only calls it a taceltum, auu Jim applied to small temples, but even in the same chapter designates it as a templum (" Quumse Virginia, et patriciam ft pudicam in PatriciaePudicitiae templum ingrcssam vero gloriaretur ");and Propertius (ii. 6. 25) also uses the same ap­pellation with regard to it On the other handsome have fixed on S. Maria in Cotmedin as thosite of this temple, but with little appearance of tevpi.k of PTTDicrnA rATnu iA. laUirr. Becker seeks in the church justas tU temple of Fortuna built by Sen'iusfa a the Forum Boarium. The church appears•*» V*n erected on tbe remains of a considerablep* of which tight columns are still perceptible,I Mi lie walls. This opinion may be as pro-lit say other on the subject; but as on the oneL from oor otter ignorance of the site of the■a, n are unable to refute it, so on the other■Bt nmttm that Becker's long and labouredftnt od the subject is fur from being convincing•At tal.seq). The site of the Temple ofn MiTLTA is equally uncertain. All that we> ttaut it is that it was founded by ServiusH sad restored by Camillus after the conquesti(Lrt. t. 17), and that it lay somewhere on■« B.«nom (Orid, fail. vi. 471). If weMaal to conjecture, we should place both it andwait of Fortuna near the northern boundary■ Win; as Liry a description of tbe ravages■rv by the fire in that quarter seems to indicatebij lay at no great distance within the Porta(xi.r. 47, xxv. 7). The.later historyInaples is unknown.aFonun Barium, near the mouth of the■ also the place called DoUOLA,■ the former part of this article as re-religioa* awe on account of some sacredWen boned there, either during the(flat Gauls, or at a still more ancient period,Varr. L.L. r. § 157, Mull.) When aX)ACA MAXIMA. tho Tiber is low, the mouth of the Cloaca Maximamay be seen from the newly erected iron bridge con­necting the /We Ratio with the left lank. The placecalled Ai) Bi sta Gallica where it is said that thebodies of the Gauls were burnt who died during orafter the siege of the Capitol, has also been assumed"to have been in this neighbourhood because it ismentioned by V'arro {lb.) between the Aequimeliumand the Roliola (cf. I.iv. v. 48, xxii. 14). But suchan assumption is altogether arbitrary, as Varr©follows no topographical order in naming places.Lastly, we shall mention two objects named in theNotitia, which seem to have stood on thej^orum-Boarium. Thesearc the Apollo CoEUsi'EX.andtheHkkci i.es OuVARirjs, apparently two of those sta­tues which Augustus dedicated in the different Vici.Becker (ffandb. p. 493) places them in the Vela-brum, and thinks that the epithet of Olivarius wasderived from the oil-market, which was establishedin the Velabrum (Plaut. Capt. iii. 1. 29), but itseems more probable that it denoted the crown ofolive worn by Hercules as Victor (Preller, Regional,p. 194). The Forum Boarium was especially devotedto the worship of Hercules, whence it seems probablethat his statue stood there; besides both that andthe Apollo are mentioned in the Notilia in comingfrom the Porta Trigemina, before the Velabrum. Before we quit the Forum Boarinm we mostadvert to a barbarous custom of which it appears tohave been the scene even to a Lite period of Romanhistory. Livy relates that after the battle of Cannaea Gallic man and woman and a Greek man andwoman were, in accordance with the commands ofthe Sibylline books, buried alive in a stone sepulchroconstructed in the middle of tlte Forum Boarium,and that this was not the first time that this bar­barous and un-Ruman custom had been practised(xxii. 57). Dion Cassius adverts to the same in­stance in the time of Fabius Maximus Verrucosus(rr. Vales. 12), and Pliny mentions another whichhad occurred even in his own time (" Boario vero inforo Graecum Graecamque defosso*, aut aharumgentium, cum quibus turn res csset, etiam nostraaetas vidit," xxviii. 3; cf. Plut. Q. R. 83). Itmay also be remarked that the first exhibition