OCR Output ft. IV. 323 YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. tuals sent in by stipulation he was used to compute them.He then judged it highly to concern the Athenians to exerttheir utmost efforts: and, as the island was now becomemore opportune for a descent, he got every thing in readi­ness for its execution, having sent for a supply of men fromthe adjacent confederates, and busied himself about all thedispositions needful for success. He had further receivedan express from Cleon notifying his approach, who now,at the head of the supply he himself had demanded, ar-riveth at Pylus. No sooner were they joined, than theydispatched a herald to the camp on the continent, demand­ing—" Whether they were willing to order their people in" the island to surrrender their arms and persons, without" risking extremities, on condition to be kept under an easy" confinement till the whole dispute could be properly ac­commodated ?"—This being positively refused, they re­mained quiet one day longer; but on the succeeding day,having embarked their whole strength of heavy-armed onboard a few vessels, they put out by night, and a little beforethe ensuing dawn landed on each side of the island, bothfrom the main sea and the harbour, amounting in the wholeto eight hundred men in heavy armour. They advancedwith their utmost speed towards the first guard on the island.This was done in pursuance of a previous disposition: Forthis first guard consisted of about thirty heavy armed: Themain body under Epitadas was posted about the centre,where the ground was most level and watery : And anotherparty guarded the extremity of the island facing Pylus,which towards the sea was a rocky cliff, and by land altoge­ther impregnable. On the top further of this cliff wasseated a fort, built some ages before of stones picked care­fully for the purpose. This they judged might be service­able to them, should they be forced to shelter themselvefrom superior violence. In this manner was the enemyposted. The Athenians immediately, in their first carrer. put the