OCR Output 114 CRUELTY OF [b. IV. as they intended to have Zacharias,1 the son of Baruch, onoof the most eminent of the citizens, slain; so what provokedthem against him was that hatred of wickedness and love ofliberty which were so eminent in him: he was also a richman, so that by taking him off, they did not only hope toseize his effects, but also to get rid of a man that had greatpower to destroy them. So they called together, by a publicproclamation, seventy of the principal men of the populace,for a show, as if they were real judges, while they had noproper authority. Before these was Zacharias accused of adesign to betray their polity to the Romans, and had traitor足ously sent to Vespasian for that purpose. Now there ap足peared no proof or sign of what he was accused, but theyaffirmed themselves, that they were well persuaded that so itwas, and desired that such their affirmation might be takenfor sufficient evidence. Now when Zacharias plainly sawthat there was no way remaining for his escape from them,as having been treacherously called before them, and thenput in prison, but not with any intention of a legal trial, hetook great liberty of speech in that despair of his life he wasunder. Accordingly, he stood up, and laughed at their pre足 1 Some commentators are ready to suppose, that this Zacharias the son ofBaruch, hero most unjustly slain by the Jews in the temple, was the verysame person with Zacharias the son of Burachias, whom our Savior says theJews slew between the temple and the altar. Matt, xxiii. 35. This is n some足what strange exposition ; since Zi-chariah the prophet was really the son ofBarachia and grandson of Iddo, Zech. i. 1, and how he died, we have no otheraccount than that before us in St. Matthew, while this Zacharia was the sonof Baruch; since the slaughter was past when our Savior spoke those words,the Jews had then already slain him; whereas this slaughter of Zachariasthe son of Baruch, in Josephus, was then about 34 years future; and sincethat slaughter was between the temple and the altar, in the court of the priests,one of tho most sacred and remote parts of the whole temple, while thiswas, in Josephus's own words, in the middle of the temple, nnd much themost probably in the court of Israel only (for we have had no intimationthat the zealots had at this time profaned the court of the priests. See B.v. ch. i. sect. 2.) Nor do I believe that our Josephus, who always insists onthe peculiar sacredness of that inmost court, and of the holy house that wasin it, would have omitted so material an aggravation of this barharousmurder, as perpetrated in a place so very holy, had that been the true placeof it. Sec Anticl. B xi. ch. vii. 6cct. 1, and the note here on B. v. ch. i.sect '1.