OCR Output THIRD VOLUME. 357 Page 131. The verses of Homer.] The island of Æoluj is de­scribed in the beginning of the tenth book of the Odyssey. Page 133. The Sibyl Herophile.] Hermias the philosopher,in his MS. Commentary on the Phædrus of Plato, has the follow­ing remarkable passage respecting this Sibyl. The reader mayfind the original of it in my translation of the Phædrus, page 52."The particulars which are reported about this Sibyl are so won­derful, that they liave the appearance of fables. But indeed therewere many Sibyls, all of whom adopted the fame life, and all ofthem, perhaps through a certain rational cause, were called Sibyls:just as Hermes Trifmegistus, who often resided in Egypt, is saidto have made mention of himself, and to have been called the thirdtime Hermes. Three Orpheuses also aie said to have existedamatig the Thracians. Perhaps therefore these Sibyls chosethese appellations from a certain communication and recollection;since this very Erythræan Sibyl, of whom Plato now speaks, wasfrom the first called Herophile. But they report that she calledevery one by his proper name as soon as she was born, that shelikewise spoke in verse, and that in a short time she arrived at"theperfection of the human species." Page 143. And in a lawless manner depopulate Asia.] It seemsthat the Gallic nation has been remarkable, from very early pe­riods, for acting in defiance of law. Page 149. Homer.] Odyss. 20. ver. 302. Page 159. Nor performing any of the sacred ceremoniet os hittvjn country.] Here too we fee that the Gauls were at an early |period remarkable for their impiety; and the fame gigantic spiritrules in the breasts of their descendants of the present day. In­deed the French seem at present to have greatly surpassed theirancestors in impiety; for it is no where asserted that the ancientGauls were professedly a nation of atheists, though they acted inan irreligious manner. However, these effeminate, volatile, su­perficial and lawless people, who after throwing off the barbarjG A a 3 yoke