OCR Output 56 ROMAN EMPIRE, every age that two wills or energies are harmonized inthe person of Christ. The majesty of the pope and theRoman synod was represented by two priests, one dea­con, and three bishops; but these obscure Latins hadneither arms to compel, nor treasures to bribe, nor lan­guage to persuade; and I am ignorant by what arts theycould determine the lofty emperor of the Greeks to ab­jure the catechism of his infancy, and to persecute thereligion of his fathers. Perhaps the monks and peopleof Constantinople0 were favourable to the Lateran creed,which is indeed the least favourable of the two: and thesuspicion is countenanced by the unnatural moderationof the Greek clergy, who appear in this quarrel to beconscious of their weakness. While the synod debated,a fanatic proposed a more summary decision, by raisinga dead man to life: the prelates assisted at the trial, butthe acknowledged failure may serve to indicate, that thepassions and prejudices of the multitude were not enlist­ed on the side of the Monothelites. In. the next gene­ration, when the son of Constantine was deposed andslain by the disciple of Macarius, they tasted the feastof revenge and dominion: the image or monument ofthe sixth council was defaced, and the original acts werecommitted to the flames. But in the second year, theirpatron was cast headlong from the throne, the bishopsof the east were released from their occasional confor­mity, the Roman faith was more firmly replanted by theorthodox successors of Bardanes, and the fine problemsof the incarnation were forgotten in the more popularand visible quarrel of the worship of images.? • The Monothelite Constans was hated by all tw ra mum (says Theophancs,Chron. p. 292.) i/xwnfln (rtyAfa waja •aanm. When the Monothelite monk failed inthis miracle, the people shouted o Xacc xnBovm. (Concil. torn. 7. p. 1032.) But thiswas a natural and transient emotion; and I much fear that the latter is an anti­cipation of orthodoxy in the good people of Constantinople. P The history of Monothelitism may be found in the Acts of the Synods of Rome(torn. 7. p. 77—395. 601—608.) and Constantinople, (p. 609—1429.) Baroniusextracted some original documents from the Vatican library ; and his chronologyi» rectified by the diligence of Pagi. Even Dupin (Bibliotheque Eccles. torn. 6. p.57—71.) and Basnage (Hist, de 1'EgUse, torn. 1. p. 541—555.) afford a tolerableabridgment.