OCR Output 536 [book xv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK XV. Containing an Interval of Eighteen Years. FROM THE DEATH OP ANTIGONUS, TO THE FINISHING OF THE TEMPLE BY HEROD. CHAP. I. CONCERNING FOLLIO, AND SAMEAS. HEROD SLAYS THE PRINCIPAL OF ANTIOONUS'S FRIENDS, AND SPOILS THECITY OF ITS WEALTH. ANTONY BEHEADS ANTIGONUS. HAVING already related the reductionof Jerusalem by Sosius and Herod,and the taking of Antigonus captive; we willnow proceed in the narration. And sinceHerod had now the government of all Judeaput into his hands, he promoted such of theprivate men in the city, as had been of hisparty; but never left off avenging and punish­ing, every day, those that had adhered to theparty of his enemies. But Pollio the Pha­risee, and Sameas, a disciple of his, werehonoured by him above all the rest. Forwhen Jerusalem was besieged, they advisedthe citizens to receive Herod: for whichadvice they were well requited. But this*Pollio, at the time when Herod was onceupon his trial of life and death, foretold, inway of reproach, to Hyrcanus, and the otherjudges, how this Herod, whom they sufferednow to escape, would afterward inflict pun­ishment on them all. Which had its com­pletion in time; while God fulfilled thewords he had spoken. Herod, having Jerusalem now under hispower, carried off all the royal ornaments, andspoiled the wealthy men of what they hadgotten; and when, by these means, he hadamassed a great quantity of silver and gold, hegave it to Antony and to his friends that wereabout him. He also slew forty-five of theprincipal men of Antigonus's party; and setguards at the gates of the city, that nothingmight be carried out together with their deadbodies. They also searched the dead; andwhatsoever was found either of silver or gold,or other treasure, it was carried to the king.Nor was there any end of the miseries hebrought upon them; and this distress waspartly occasioned by the covetousness of theprince regnant; and partly by the sabbaticyear, which was still going on, and forced thecountry to lie still uncultivated: since we areforbidden to sow our land in that year. Nowwhen Antony had received Antigonus as hiscaptive, he determined to keep him againsthis triumph. But when he heard that the na­tion grew seditious: and that out of their ha­tred to Herod, they continued to bear goodwill to Antigonus, he fresolved to beheadhim at Antioch; for otherwise the Jews couldno way be brought to be quiet.J And Strabo * How Josephus could say, as it now stands in all hiscopies, but one, that it was Pollio, the master; and notSameas, the sdholar, who foretold that Herod would oneday slay the Sanhedrim of the Jews and Hyrcanus;whereas he had lately told us, in all his copies, that itwas Sameas, and not Pollio, XIV. 9. does not appear. Yetsince one copy, even in this place, says it was Sameas;that may well be supposed to be the true reading. Other­wise it must be allowed as a slip of either Josephus's pen,or memory: which now and then happens to the mostcareful writers. t That Antony put this Antigonus to death, is con­firmed, (besides the testimony of Strabo, produced herein the text, by Josephus himself,) by Plutarch and Dio;as Dean Aldrich takes notice upon this occasion, in hisnotes On the War, I. 18. and Hudson and Reland, on theplace before us. I Herod not thinking himself safe in his kingdom, aslong as this remainder of the old royal family continuedalive, never left soliciting Antony, till at length by a greatsum of money he obtained that this poor prince should beput to death: to which he having been condemned by a