OCR Output 120 LIVY. greatest courage; nor did victory declare itself untilthe second line of the Romans came up fresh to thefront, in the place of the first, who were much fatigued.The Etrurian line not being supported by any freshreserves, all before and round the standards wereslain, and in no battle whatever would have been seena nobler stand, or a greater effusion of human blood,had not the night sheltered the Etrurians, who wereresolutely determined to resist to death ; so that thevictors, not the vanquished, were the first who desistedfrom fighting. After sunset the signal for retreat wasgiven, and both parties retired in the night to theircamps. During the remainder of the year nothingmemorable was effected at Sutrium ; for of the enemy'sarmy, the whole first line had been cut off, the re­serves only being left, who were scarce sufficient toguard the camp ; and, among the Romans, a greaternumber died of their wounds than had fallen in thefield. 33. Quintus Fabius, consul for the ensuing year,[A.U. C. 444. B.C. 308] succeeded to the commandof the army at Sutrium : the colleague given to himwas Caius Marcius Rutilus. On the one side, Fabiusbrought with him a reinforcement from Rome, and onthe other, a new army had been sent for, and came fromhome to the Etrurians. Many years had now passedwithout any disputes between the patrician magistratesand plebeian tribunes, when a contest took its rise fromthat family, which seemed raised by fate as antagoniststo the tribunes and commons of those times ; AppiusClaudius being censor, when the eighteen months hadexpired, which was the time limited by the /Emilianlaw for the duration of the censorship, although hiscolleague Caius Plautius had already resigned hisoffice, could not be prevailed on by any means to giveup his. There was a tribune of the commons, PubliusSempronius, who undertook to enforce the terminationof the censorship within the lawful time by means of alegal process, which was not more popular than just,nor more pleasing to the people generally than to