OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 159 as much land as his father had appointed him to sow, and re­turned to him. And when he was come back, his father wasmightily pleased with his sagacity, and commended the sharp­ness of his understanding, and his boldness in what he did. Andhe still loved him the more, as if he were his only genuine son,while his brethren were much troubled at it. 7. But when one told him that Ptolemy had a son just born,and that all the principal men of Syria, and the other countriessubject to him, were to keep a festival, on account of the child'sbirthday, and went away in haste with great retinues to Alex­andria, he was himself indeed hindered from going by old age,but he made trial of his sons, whether any of them would bewilling to go to the king. And when the elder sons excusedthemselves from going, and said, they were not courtiers goodenough for such conversation, and advised him to send their bro­ther Hyrcanus, he gladly hearkened to that advice; and calledHyrcanus, and asked him, whether he would go to the king; andwhether it was agreeable to him to go or not? And upon hispromise that he would go, and his saying that he should not wantmuch money for his journey, because he would live moderately,and that ten thousand drachmae would be sufficient, he was plea­sed with his son's prudence. After a little while, the son advisedhis father not to send his presents to the king from thence,but to give him a letter to his steward at Alexandria, that hemight furnish him with money, for purchasing what should bemost excellent and most precious. So he thinking that the ex­pense of ten talents would be enough for presents to be made theking; and commending his son as giving him good advice, wroteto Arion his steward, that managed all his money matters atAlexandria; which money was not less than three thousand talentson his account, for Joseph sent the money he received in Syriato Alexandria. And when the day appointed for the paymentof the taxes to the king came, he wrote to Arion to pay them.So when the son had asked his father for a letter to this steward,and had received it, he made haste to Alexandria. And whenhe was gone, his brethren wrote to all the king's friends, thatthey should destroy him. 8. But when he was come to Alexandria, he delivered his let­ter to Arion, who asked him how many talents he would have?(hoping he would ask for no more than ten, or a little more,) hesaid he wanted a thousand talents. At which the steward wasangry and rebuked him, as one that intended to live extravagant­ly; and he let him know how his father had gathered together hisestate by pains-taking, and resisting his inclinations, and wishedhim to imitate the example of his father: he assured him withal,that he would give him but ten talents, and that for a present