OCR Output 230 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. realizing that wish. Although the numerical proportions ofthe burgesses and non-burgesses in Italy cannot be properlyascertained, it may be regarded as certain that the numberof the burgesses was not very much less than that of theItalian allies ; for nearly 400,000 burgesses capable of bearingarms there were at least 500,000, probably 600,000 allies.*So long as with such proportions the burgesses were unitedand there was no outward enemy worthy of mention, theItalian allies, split up into an endless number of isolatedcivic and cantonal communities, and connected with Romeby a thousand relations public and private, could never attainto common action ; and with moderate prudence the govern­ment could not fail to control their troublesome and in­dignant subjects partly by the compact mass of the bur­gesses, partly by the very considerable resources which theprovinces afforded, partly by setting one community againstanother.The Italian* Accordingly the Italians kept themselves quiet, till the re-and the volution began to shake Rome; but, as soon as it had brokenKoman outi they entered into . the movements and agitations ofthe Roman parties, with a view to obtain equality of rightsby means of the one or the other. They had made com­mon cause first with the popular and then with the sena­torial party, and gained equally little by either. They hadbeen driven to the conviction that, while the best men ofboth parties acknowledged the justice and equity of their. claims, these best men, aristocrats as well as poptdares, hadequally little power to procure a hearing for those claims 115. 70. * These figures are taken from the numbers of the census of 639 and 684;there were in the former year 394,336 burgesses capable of anus, in thelatter 910,000 (according to Phlegon Fr. 12 Mull, which statement Clinton 86. and his copyists erroneously refer to the census of 668; according to Liv.Ep. 98 the number was—by the correct reading—900,000 persons). The 86. only figures known between these two—those of the census of 668, whichaccording to Hieronymus gave 463,000 persons—probably turned out solow only because the census took place amidst the crisis of the revolution.As an increase of the population of Italy is not conceivable in the period115. 70. from 639 to 684, and even the Sullan assignations of land can at the mosthave but filled the gaps which the war had made, the surplus of fully 500,000men capable of arms may be referred with certainty to the reception of theallies which had taken place in the interval. But it is possible and even pro­bable, that in these fatal years the total amount of the Italian population mayhave retrograded rather than advanced: if we reckon the total deficit at100,000 men capable of arms, which seems not excessive, there were at thetime of the Social War in Italy three non-burgesses for two burgesses.