OCR Output ». II. YEAR II. BEEORE CHRIST 430. 155 to an excessive weakness, were carried off. For the maladybeginning in the head, and settling first there, sunk afterwardsgradually down the whole body. And whoever got safethrough all its most dangerous stages, yet the extremities oftheir bodies still retained the marks of its violence. For itshot down into their privy-members, into their fingers andtoes, by losing which they escaped with life. Some therewere who lost their eyes ; and some who being quite recover­ed had at once totally lost all memory, and quite forgot notonly their most intimate friends, but even their own selves.For as this distemper was in general virulent beyond expres­sion, and its every part more grievous than yet had fallen tothe lot of human nature, so, in one particular instance, it ap­peared to be none of the natural infirmities of man, since thebirds and beasts that prey on human flesh either never ap­proached the dead bodies, of which many lay about uninter-red ; or certainly perished if they ever tasted*. One proofof this is the total disappearance then of such birds, for notone was to be seen, either in any other place, or about any one • This passage is translated close to the letter of the original. It was in­tended by the author to shew the excessive malignancy of the plague, asthe very Beth of the dead bodies was so fatally pestilential to carnivorousanimals ;—'' Either they never tasted ; or, if they tasted, died." One proofof this is presumptive, arising from the disappearance of all birds of prey.The second was certain, and an object of sensible observation. Every bodycould see that dogs, those familiar animals who live with and accompanymen abroad, either never tasted; or, if hunger at any time forced them toit, they certainly lost their lives. Lucretius literally translates the circum­stance itself, but hath enlarged in the proofs, and intimates that the distem­per raged amongst those animals even without eating the flesh of the dead,and was general to every living species. Multaque hum! cum inhumata jacerent corpora supra Corporibus, tamen alituum genus atque ferarum. Autprocul absiliebat, ut acrem exiret odorem ; Aut, ubi gustarat, languebat morte propinqua. Nec tamen omnino tcmere illis solibus ulla Comparebat avis, nec noctibu' ssecla ferarum Exibant sylvis : languebant pleraque morbo, Et moriebantur : cum primis fida canum vis ' Strata viis animam ponebat in omnibus aegram : Extorquebat enim vitam vis morbida membrit.