OCR Output 38 THE DECLINE AND FALL and maliciously observed, that the word archer is introduced by Homer(l) assterm of contempt. "Such contempt might perhaps be due to the naked youth,who appeared on foot in the fields of Troy, and lurking, behind a tomb-stone, orthe shield of a friend, drew the bow-string to their breast,(2) and dismissed a fee­ble and lifeless arrow. But our archers (pursues the historian) are mounted on.horses, which they manage with admirable skill; their head and shoulders are pro­tected by a casque or buckler; they wear greaves of iron on their legs, and theirbodies are guarded by a coat of mail. On their right side hangs a quiver, a sword onthe left, and their hand is accustomed to wield a lance, or javelin, in closer com­bat. Their bows are strong and weighty; they shoot in every possible direction,advancing, retreating, to the front, to the rear, or to either flank; and as they aretaught to draw the bow-string not to the breast, but to the right ear, firm indeedmust be the armour that can resist the rapid violence of their shaft." Five hun­dred transports, navigated by twenty thousand mariners of Egypt, Gilicia, andIonia, were collected in the harbour of Constantinople. The smallest of thesevessels may be computed at thirty, the largest at five hundred tons; and the fairaverage will supply an allowance, liberal, but not profuse, of about one hundredthousand tons, (3) for the reception of thirty-five thousand soldiers and sailors, offive thousand horses, of arms, engines, and military stores, and of a sufficientstock of water and provisions for a voyage, perhaps, of three months. The proudgalleys which in former ages swept the Mediterranean with so many hundredoars, had long since disappeared; and the fleet of Justinian was escorted only byninety-two light brigantines; covered from the missile weapons of the enemy,and rowed by two thousand of the brave and robust youth of Constantinople.Twenty-two generals are named, most of whom were afterward distinguished inthe wars of Africa and Italy: but the supreme command, both by land and sea,was delegated to Belisarius alone, with a boundless power of acting according tohis discretion, as if the emperor himself were present. The separation of the na­val and military professions is at once the effect and the cause of modern improve­ments in the science of navigation and maritime war. In the seventh year of the reign of Justinian, and about the time of the summersolstice, the whole fleet of six hundred ships was ranged in martial pomp beforethe gardens of the palace. The patriarch pronounced his benediction, the empe­ror signified his last commands, the general's trumpet gave the signal of departure,and every heart, according to its fears or wishes, explored with anxious curiositythe omens of misfortune and success. The first halt was made at Perinthus orHeraclea, where Belisarius waited five days to receive some Thracian horses, amilitary gift of his sovereign. From thence the fleet pursued their course throughthe midst of the Propontis; but, as they struggled to pass the straits of the Helles­pont, an unfavourable wind detained them four days at Abydus, where the generalexhibited a memorable lesson of firmness and severity. Two of the Huns, who,in a drunken quarrel, had slain one of their fellow-soldiers, were instantly shownto the army suspended on a lofty gibbet. The national indignity was resented bytheir countrymen, who disclaimed the servile laws of the empire, and asserted thefree privilege of Scythia, where a small fine was allowed to expiate the hasty sal­lies of intemperance and anger. Their complaints were specious, their clamourswere loud, and the Romans were not averse to the example of disorder and impu­nity. But the rising sedition was appeased by the authority and eloquence of thegeneral: and he represented to the assembled troops the obligation of justice, theimportance of discipline, the rewards of piety and virtue, and the unpardonableguilt of murder, which, in his apprehension, was aggravated rather than excusedby the vice of intoxication. (4) In the navigation from the Hellespont to Pelopon- (1) See the preface of Procopius. The enemies of archery might quote the reproaches of Diomede, (Iliad,A. 335, fee.) and the permittere vulncra ventis of Lncan: (viii. 384.) yet the Romans could not despise the ar­rows of the Parthians: and in the siege of Troy, Pandarus, Paris, and Tencer, pierced those haughty warriorswho insulted them as women or children. (2) Nsupfiw n;v jreXseTfe, to£o> Ss 9-iJnpov. (Iliad. A, 1230 How concise—how just—how beautiful is thewhole picture! I see the attitudes of the archer—I hear the twanging of the bow, &ty%i Pis;, vs-jfn Si pry* oeX.ro o' flfo-TS;. (3) The text appears to allow for the largest vessels fifty thousand mcdimni, or three thousand tons (sincethe medimnus weighed one hundred and sixty Roman, or one hundred and twenty avoirdupois pounds.) Ihave given a more rational interpretation, by supposing that the Attic style of Procopiul conceals the legaland popular modiusy a sixth part of the nadtmnus. (Hooper's Ancient Measures, p. Ij2, Sec.) A contrary,and indeed a stranger mistake, has crept into an oration of Dinarehus (ennira Demosthcnem, in Heiskc Ora­tor. Grsec. torn. iv. p. 2. p. 34.) By reducing the number of ships from five hundred to fifty, and translatingfuSittm by mtnetor pounds. Cousin has generously allowed five hundred tons for the whole of Uie imperialfleet;—Did he never think ? (4) I have read of a Greek legislator, who inflicted a double penalty on the crimes committed in a state ofintoxication, but it seems agreed that this ^ras rather a political than a moral law.