OCR Output 184 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. together to him, and with them Alcimus the high priest, whoaccused the whole nation, and particularly Judas and his breth­ren; and said, That " they had slain all his friends, and that"those in his kingdom that were of his party, and waited for"his return, were by them put to death; that these men had"ejected them out of their own country; and caused them to be"sojourners in a foreign land; and they desired that he would"send some one of his own friends, and know from him what"mischief Judas' party had done." 2. At this Demetrius was very angry, and stnt Bacchides, afriend of Antiochus Epiphanes, * a good man; and one that hadbeen entrusted with all Mesopotamia, and gave him an army,and committed Alcimus the high priest to his care; and gavehim charge to slay Judas, and those that were with him. SoBacchides made haste, and went out of Antioch with his army;and when he was come into Judea, he sent to Judas and his breth­ren, to discourse with him about a league of friendship andpeace, 'for he had a mind to take him by treachery: But Judasdid not give credit to him, for he saw that he came with sogreat an army as men do not bring when they come to makepeace but to make war. However, some of the people acqui­esced in that Bacchides caused to be proclaimed; and supposingthey should undergo no considerable harm from Alcimus, whowas their countryman, they went over to them; and when theyhad received oaths from both of them, that neither they them­selves, nor those of the same sentiments, should come to anyharm, they entrusted themselves with them: But Bacchidestroubled himself not about the oaths he had taken, and slewthreescore of them, although by not keeping his faith with thesethat first went over, he deterred all the rest, who had intentionsto go over to him, from doing it. But as he was gone out ofJerusalem, and was at the village called Bethzetha, he sent outand caught many of the deserters, and some of the people also,and slew them all; and enjoined all that lived in the country tosubmit to AJcimus. So he left him there, with some part ofthe army that he might have wherewith to keep the country inobedience, and returned to Antioch, to king Demetrius. 3. But Alcimus was desirous to have the dominion more firm­ly assured to him; and understanding, that if he could bring itabout that the multitude should be his friends, he should govern * It is no way probable that Josephus would call Bacchides, that bitter and bloodyenemy of the Jews, as our present copies have it, a good man, or kind and gentle*What the author of the first book of Maccabees, whom Josephus here follows, in-stead of that character, says of him, is that he was a great man in the kingdom, andfaitltful to his ting: which was very probably Josephus' meaning also,