OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 441 body, is subject to miseries, and is not freed therefrom againbut by death : on which account the law requires this purifi­cation to be entirely performed. 26. Nay, indeed, the law does not permit us to make fes­tivals at the births of our children, and thereby afford occa­sion of drinking to excess ; but it ordains, that the very be­ginning of our education should be immediately directed tosobriety. It also commands us to bring those children up inlearning, and to exercise them in the laws, and to makethem acquainted with the acts of their predecessors, in orderto their imitation of them, and that they might be nourishedup in the laws from their infancy, and might neither trans­gress them, nor have any pretence for their ignorance ofthem. 27. Our law hath also taken care of the decent burial ofthe dead, but without any extravagant expenses for the fune­rals, and without the erection of any illustrious monumentsfor them ; but hath ordered that their nearest relation shouldperform their obsequies; and hath showed it to bo regular,that all who pass by when any one is buried should accompanythe funeral, and join in the lamentation. It also ordains, thatthe house and its inhabitants should be purified after the fu­neral is over, that every one may thence learn to keep at agreat distance from the thoughts of being pure, if he hathbeen once guilty of murder. 28. The law ordains also, that parents should be honoredimmediately after God himself; and delivers that son, whodoes not requite them for the benefits he hath received fromthem, but is deficient on any such occasion, to be stoned. Italso says, that the young men should pay due respect toevery elder, since God is the eldest of all beings. It doesnot give leave to conceal any thing from our friends, becausethat is not true friendship which will not commit all things totheir fidelity: it also forbids the revelation of secrets, eventhough an enmity arise between them. If any judge takesbribes, his punishment is death: he that overlooks one thatoffers him a petition, and this when he is able to relieve him,he is a guilty person. What is not by any one intrusted to