OCR Output 224 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIOS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. The capitalist party offered the moat vehement resistance,and, in consequence of the irresolution of the greater partof the aristocracy and the vacillation of the comitia, wouldbeyond question have carried the rejection of the law as tojurymen, if it had been put to the vote by itself. Drususaccordingly comprised all his proposals in one law: and, asthus all the burgesses interested in the distributions ofgrain and land were compelled to vote also for the law as tojurymen, he succeeded in carrying the law by their helpand that of the Italians, who stood firmly by Drusus withthe exception of the large landowners, particularly thosein Umbria and Etruria, whose domanial possessions werethreatened. It was not carried, however, until Drusus hadcaused the consul Philippus, who would not desist from oppo­sition, to be arrested and carried off to prison by a bailiff.The people celebrated the tribune as their benefactor, andreceived him in the theatre by rising up and applauding;but the voting had not so much decided the struggle as trans­ferred it to another ground, for the opposite party justlycharacterized the proposal of Drusus as contrary to the law 98. of 656 (P. 218) and therefore as null. The chief opponentof the tribune, the consul Philippus, summoned the senateon this ground to cancel the Livian law as informal; butthe majority of the senate, glad to be rid of the equestriancourts, rejected the proposal. The consul thereupon declaredin the open market that it was not possible to govern withsuch a senate, and that he would look out for another state-council: ho seemed to meditate a coup d'etat. The senate,convoked accordingly by Drusus, after stormy discussionspronounced a vote of censure and want of confidence againstthe consul; but in secret a great part of the majority beganto cherish apprehension respecting the revolution with whichthey seemed to be threatened on the part both of Philippusand of a large portion of the capitalists. Other circum­stances added to that apprehension. One of theTnost activeand eminent of those who shared the views of Drusus, theorator Lucius Crassus, died suddenly a few days after that 81. sitting of the senate (Sept. 663). The connections formedby Drusus with the Italians, which he bad at first com­municated only to a few of his most intimate friends, be­came gradually divulged, and the furious cry of high treasonwhich his antagonists raised was echoed by many, perhapsby most, men of the government party. Even the generous