OCR Output 98 ITHACA. ITHACA. whilo he believes the modern capital town of Bathyto occupy tho sit* of Oncylcia. (//. /. c.) It iatrue that Strabo (pp. 376. 453) pl:u.es Aegilips andCrocyleia in Leucas; but this appears inconsistentwith Homer and other ancient authorities. (SeeLeake, I. c.) Plutarch (Quaest. Grate. 43) and Stephanus B.(*. v.) state that the proper name of the ancientcapital of Ithaca was Alcomenae or Alalcomenae,and that Ulysses bestowed this appellation upon itfrom his having been himself born near Alalcomenaein Boeotia. But this name is not found in Homer;and a passage in Strabo tends to identify it with theruins on the isthmus of AMs, where the fortrtusand royal residence of the Itbacan chieftains pro­bably stood, on account of the advantages of a posi­tion so e.isily accessible to the sea both on theeastern and western sides. It is argued by Leake(L c.) that the Homeric capital city was at Pulis, alittle harbour on the NW. coast of the island, wheresome Hellenic remains may still be traced. For thepoet ((A/, iv. 844, seq.) represents the suitors aslying in wait for Telemaelius on his return fromPeloponnesus at Asteris, "a small island in thechannel between Itliaca and Samos (Cej^tdoniti)"where the only island is that now called AacriraAioi',situated exactly opposite the entrance to Port Pulls.The traditional name jof Pttlls is alone a strongargument that the town, of which the remains arestill visible there, was that which Scylax (In Acar-naniii), and still more especially Ptolemy (iii. 14),mentions as having borne the same name as theisland. It seems highly probable that r) lrikis, orOit city, was among the Ithacans the most conunondesignation of their chief town. And if the Homericcapital was at Palis, it will follow that Mt. Neiuni,under which it stood ('I0curiir 'Tvomjtou, Od. iii. 81),was the mountain of Exoge (Jlal. Exui), at thenorthern extremity of the island, and that one of itssummits was the Hennaean hill ('Epuoios K6<pos, Od.zvi. 471) from which Kmnaeus saw the ship ofTelemachus entering the harbour. It becomes pro­bable, also, that the harbour Kheithrum ('PtlBpor),which was "under Xcium" but " apart from tl.ecity" (rdcrcbi roK-noi, Od. i. 185), may be identifiedwith either of the neighbouring bays of Ajales orFrikia. Near the village of Exoge may be observedthe substructions of an ancient building, probably atemple, with several steps and niches cut in thena-k. These remains are now called by tho neigh­bouring peasants *" the School of Homer." The Homeric "Fountain of Arethusa" is identi­fied with a copious spring which rises at the foot ofa cliff fronting the tea, near the SK. extremity ofIthaca. This cliff is still called A'orar (Kd>a{),and is, doubtless, that alluded to at Od. xiLL 407,seq., xir. 5, sc.|., xiv. 398. (See, especially on thispoint, Leake, /. c, and Mure, 7our ■'» Greece, vol. i.p. 67, aeq.) The most remarkable natural feature of Ithacais the Gulf ufitolu, that inlet of the sea whichDearly divides the island into two portions; andthe most remarkable relic of antiquity ia the so-called "Castle of Ulysses," placed, as has beenalready intimated, on the aides and summit of thesteep hill of Actus, on the connecting isthmus.Here may be traced several lines of inclosure, testi­fying the highest antiquity in the rude structure ofmassive stones which compose them. The positionof several gates is distinctly marked; there are alsotraces of a tower aud of two large subterranean cis- terns. There can be little donbt that this is thespot to which Cicero (dt Oral. i. 44) alludes inpraising the patriotism of Ulysses —" ut ltliviinillam in asjicrrimis saxis tanquam nidulam aiExjmsapientissimua vir immortalitati anteponeret." Thename of Aetas, moreover, recalls the striking scentin Od. ii. 146, seq. At the base of this hill therehave been discovered several ancient tombs, sepul­chral inscriptions, vases, rings, medals, &c. Thecoins of Ithaca usually bear the head of Ulysses,with the pilem, or conical cap, and the legend'Wax&y; the reverse exhibiting a cock, an emblemof the hero's vigilance, Athena, his tutelar deity, orother devices of like import. (Sec Eckhel.) The Homeric port of Phorcys (Od. xiii. 345) issupposed to be represented by a small creek nowcalled Dexia (probably because it is on the right ofthe entrance to the harbour of Batlty), or by anothercreek now called Skhinos, both on the southern sideof the GulfofMolu. (Leake, /. c.) At a care onthe side of Mount Stephanos or Merortujli, abivethis gulf, and at some short distance from the ses,isplaced the " Grotto of the Nymphs," in which tiesleeping Ulysses was deposited by the Phi*nicianswho brought him from Scheria. (Od. xiii. 116,seq.) Leake (/. c.) considers this to be "the onlyI»iint in the island exactly corresponding to the port'sdata." The modern capital of Ithaca extends in a narrowstrip of white houses round the southern extremityof tlie horse-shoe port, or " deep " (RaSv), from whichit derives its name, and which is itself but an inlet ofthe Gulf of ifolo, often mentioned already. Afterpassing through similar vicissitudes to those of itsneighbours, Ithaca is now one of the seven IonianIslands under the protectorate of Great Britain, andcontains a population exceeding 10,000 souls, — anindustrious and prroqicrous community. It lias beentruly observed that there is, perhaps, no spot in theworld where the influence of classical associations iamore lively or more pure; for Ithaca is indebted for nopart of its interest to the rival distinctions of modernannals, — so much as its name scarcely occurring inthe page of any writer of historical ages, unless withreference to its poetical celebrity. Indeed, in A. D.1504, it was nearly, if not quite, uninhabited, havingbeen depopulated by the incursions of Corsairs; andrecord is still extant of the privileges accorded by theVenetian government to the settlers (probably fromthe neighbouring islands and from the mainland ofGreece) by whom it was rcpcopled. (Leake, L e.;Bowen, Ithaca in 1850, p. 1.) It lias been assumed throughout this article thatthe island still called Ithaca is identical with theHomeric Ithaca. Of that fact there Is ample testi­mony in its geographical position, as well as in itsinternal features, when compared with the Odyssey.To every sceptic we may say, in the wurds of Athenato Ulysses (Od. xiii. 344), — oAA' ayt toi 8«ifa> 'I0d>r>)i Bor ctyoa wrs-eufc>s. (The arguments on the sceptical side of the questiunhave been collated by Voliker, Homer. (ie\*jr, 46 COIS or ITHACA.