OCR Output io4 THE DECLINE AND FALL A conspiracyprevented. "Mil der oftcitinax bythe Piæto-rim«. A. s>. ig?.March 281I1. grctted the licence of the former reign. Their discontents were se­cretly fomented by Laetus their præfect, who found, when it wastoo late, that his new emperor would reward a servant, but wouldnot be ruled by a favourite. On the third day of his reign, the sol­diers seized on a noble senator, with a design to carry him to thecamp, and to invest him with the Imperial purple. Instead of be­ing dazzled by the dangerous honour, the affrighted victim escapedfrom their violence, and took refuge at the feet of Pertinax. Ashort time afterwards Sosius Falco, one of the consuls of the year,a rash youth 54, but of an ancient and opulent family, listened to thevoice of ambition; and a conspiracy was formed during a fliortabsence of Pertinax, which was .crushed by his sudden return toRome, and his resolute behaviour. Falco was on the point of be­ing justly condemned to death, as a public enemy, had he not beensaved by the earnest and sincere entreaties of the injured emperor;who conjured the senate, that the purity of his reign might not bestained by the blood even of a guilty senator. These disappointments served only to irritate the rage of the Prae­torian guards. On the twenty-eighth of March, eighty-six daysonly after the death of Commodus, a general sedition broke out in thecamp, which the officers wanted either power or inclination to sup­press. Two or three hundred of the most desperate soldiers marchedat noon-day, with arms in their hands, and fury in their looks, to­wards the Imperial palace. The gates were thrown open by theircompanions upon guard; and by the domestics of the -old court,who had already formed a secret conspiracy against the life of thetoo virtuous emperor. On the news of their approach, Pertinaxdisdaining either flight or concealment advanced to meet his assassins;and recalled to their minds his own innocence, and the sanctity oftheir recent oath. For a few moments they stood in silent suspence,astiamed of their atrocious design, and awed by the venerable aspectand majestic firmness of their sovereign, till at length the despair of