OCR Output CHAP. LI. 459 vate zeal and public toleration.1 Under the payment ofan annual tribute, the Mahometan law secured to theGhebers of Herat their civil and religious liberties: butthe recent and humble mosch was overshadowed by theantique splendour of the adjoining temple of fire. A fa­natic imam deplored, in his sermons, the scandalousneighbourhood, and accused the weakness or indiffer­ence of the faithful. Excited by his voice, the peopleassembled in tumult; the two houses of prayer were con­sumed by the flames, but the vacant ground was imme­diately occupied by the foundations of a new mosch.The injured Magi appealed to the sovereign of Chorasan;he promised justice and relief; when, behold! four thou­sand citizens of Herat, of a grave character and matureage, unanimously swore that the idolatrous fane hadnever existed; the inquisition was silenced, and theirconscience was satisfied (says the historian Mirchond1)with this holy and meritorious perjury." But the great­est part of the temples of Persia were ruined by the in­sensible and general desertion of their votaries. It wasinsensible, since it is not accompanied with any memo­rial of time or place, of persecution or resistance. Itwas general, since the whole realm, from Shiraz to Sa-marcand, imbibed the faith of the Koran; and thepre­ • This singular story is related by d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 448, 449.)on the faith of Khondemir, and by Mirchond himself. (Hist, priorum RegumPersaruio, &c. p. 9,10. not. p. 88,99.) 'Mirchond (Mohammed Emir Khoondah Shah), a native of Herat, composedin the Penian language a general history of the east, from the creation to theyear of the Hegira 875. (A. D. 1471.) In the year 904, (A. D. 1498.) the his­torian obtained the command of a princely library, and his applauded work, inseven or twelve parts, was abbreviated in three volumes by his son Khondemir,A. H. 927. A.D. 1520. The two writers, most accurately distinguished by Petitde la Croix, (Hist, de Genghizcan, p. 537, 538. 544,545.) are loosely confoundedby d'Herbelot: (p. 358. 410. 994, 995.) but his numerous extracts, under theimproper name of Khondemir, belong to the father rather than the son. The his­torian of Gonghizcan refers to a MS. of Mirchond, which he received from thehands of his friend d' Herbelot himself. A curious fragment (the Tahcrian andSofiarian Dynasties) has been lately published in Persic and Latin; (Vienna,1782, in quarto, cum notis Bernard de Jenisch) and the editor allows us to hopefor a continuation of Mirchond. "Quo testimtmio boni se quidpiam praestitisse opinabantur. Yet Mirchondmust have condemned their zeal, since he approved the legal toleration of theMagi, cui (the fire temple) peracto singulis annis censfl, uti sacra Mobammedwlege cautum, ab omnibus molestiis ac oneribus libero esse limit.