OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 113 was not at that time well known; but the inviolablefidelity which he ever afterwards preserved towardsRome, through the whole course of a very long life, issufficient proof that he did not, even then, act withouta reasonable motive. Mago went to Gades in the shipswhich had been sent back by Hasdrubal. Of the rest,thus abandoned by their generals, some deserted,others fled and dispersed through the neighboringstates; no detachment remaining, considerable eitherfor number or strength. These were the principalevents, in consequence of which, under the conductand auspices of Publius Scipio, the Carthaginianswere compelled to relinquish all footing in Spain, inthe thirteenth year from the commencement of hostili­ties, the fifth from Scipio's having received the com­mand of the province and of the army. Not longafter, Silanus returned to Scipio at Tarraco, with in­formation that the war was at an end. 17. Lucius Scipio was employed in conveying toRome a great many prisoners of distinction, and incarrying the news of the reduction of Spain. Whilethis was considered by all others as a most joyful andglorious event, he alone, by whose means it had beenaccomplished, insatiable in his pursuit of glory, con­sidered it as a trifle in comparison with those designswhich his aspiring mind and sanguine hopes promptedhim to conceive. He now directed his views to Africa,regarding the subjugation of Carthage, in all hergrandeur, as the consummation of his renown. Deem­ing it necessary, therefore, to conciliate the friendshipof the several African kings and people, he resolved tomake the first trial of Syphax, king of the Massaesy-lians,—a nation bordering on Mauritania, and lyingopposite to that part of Spain, particularly where NewCarthage stands. There was an alliance at that timesubsisting between this monarch and the Carthaginians.Supposing him, however, not more firmly attached thanbarbarians usually are, whose fidelity always dependson fortune, Scipio despatched Laelius to him as envoy,with proper presents. Syphax, highly delighted with LIV. VOL. V. H