OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 363 through the mediation of the people of Epirus; and acouncil, which was held for the purpose, having ap­pointed Pausanias the pretor, and Alexander the mas­ter of the horse, as negotiators, they brought the con­sul and the king to a conference, on the banks of theriver Aous, where the channel was narrowest. Thesum of the consul's demands was, that the king shouldwithdraw his troops from the territories of the severalstates; that to those whose lands and cities he hadplundered he should restore such of their effects ascould be found; and that the value of the rest shouldbe estimated by a fair arbitration. Philip answered,that 'the cases of the several states differed widelyfrom each other: that such as he himself had seizedon he would set at liberty; but he would not divesthimself of the hereditary and just possessions whichhad been conveyed down to him from his ancestors.If those, with whom hostilities had been carried on,complained of any losses in the war, he was ready tosubmit the matter to the arbitration of any state withwhom both parties were at peace.' To this the consulreplied, that 'the business required neither judge norarbitrator: for who did not see clearly that every in­jurious consequence of the war was to be imputed tothe first aggressor? And in this case Philip, unpro­voked by any, had first commenced hostilities againstall.' When they next began to treat of those nationswhich were to be set at liberty, the consul named,first, the Thessalians: on which the king indignantlyexclaimed, 'What harsher terms, Titus Quintius, couldyou impose on me, if I were vanquished?' With thesewords he retired hastily from the conference; and theywere prevented only by the river, which separatedthem, from assaulting each other with missile wea­pons. On the following day many skirmishes tookplace between parties sallying from the outposts, in aplain sufficiently wide for the purpose. Afterwardsthe king's troops drew back into narrow and rockyplaces, whither the Romans, keenly eager for fighting,penetrated also. These bad in their favor order and