OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 199 tained the sentence of his fate. "You cannot be igno­rant how much you have deserved my displeasure. I amnot insensible of the services of Antonina. To her me­rits and intercession I have granted your life, and permityou to retain a part of your treasures, which might bejustly forfeited to the state. Let your gratitude, whereit is due, be displayed, not in words, but in your futurebehaviour." I know not how to believe or to relate thetransports with which the hero is said to have receivedthis ignominious pardon. He fell prostrate before hiswife, he kissed the feet of his saviour, and he devoutlypromised to live the grateful and submissive slave of An­tonina. A fine of one hundred and twenty thousandpounds sterling was levied on the fortunes of Belisarius;and with the office of count, or master of the royal sta­bles, he accepted the conduct of the Italian war. At hisdeparture from Constantinople, his friends, and even thepublic, were persuaded, that as soon' as he regained hisfreedom, he would renounce his dissimulation; and thathis wife, Theodora, and perhaps the emperor himself,would be sacrificed to the just revenge of a virtuous rebel.Their hopes were deceived; and the unconquerable pa­tience and loyalty of Belisarius appear either below orabove the character of a MAN.b CHAP. XLII. Slnte of the harharic world.—Establishment of the Lomhards on the Dannbe.—Tribes and iuroads of the Sclavonians.—Origin, empire, and emhassies of theTurks.—The flight of the Avars.—Chosroes I. or Nushirvan, king of Persia.—Hisprosperous reign and wars with the Romans.—The Cholchian or Lazic war.—The^Ethiopians. Our estimate of personal merit is relative to the com- weaknessmon faculties of mankind. The aspiring efforts of ge- Pire °r jus-nius, or virtue, cither in active or speculative life, are a'd"^?- —565. b The continnator of the chronicle of Marcellinus gives, in a few decent words,the substance of the Anecdotes.—Belisarius de Oriente evocatus, in ofl'unsam pe-riculumque incurreus grave, ct invidiae suhjacens, rursus remittitur in Italiaro,(p. 54.)