OCR Output AN. 63.] 49ft ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. violence and disorder. And there were nofewer than a thousand Jews, of the bestesteem among them, who confirmed this ac­cusation; which confirmation was procuredby Antipater. But Aristobulus alledgedagainst him, that it was Hyrcanus's own tem­per, which was inactive, and on that accountcontemptible, which caused him to be de­prived of the government: and that for him­self he was necessitated to take it upon him;lest it should be transferred to others. Andthat as to his *title of king, it was no otherthan what his father had taken before him.He also called for witnesses of what he said,some persons who were both young and in­solent; whose purple garments, fine heads ofhair, and other ornaments, were detested bythe court, and which they appeared in, notas though they were to plead their cause ina court of justice; but as if they were march­ing in a pompous procession. When Pompey had heard the causes ofthese two, and had condemned Aristobulusfor his violent procedure; he spake civilly tothem, and dismissed them with an assurancethat when he came again into their countryhe would settle all their affairs; after he hadfirst taken a view of the affairs of the Naba-teans. In the mean time he ordered them tobe quiet; and treated Aristobulus civilly;lest he should make the nation revolt, andhinder his return. This, however, Aristobu­lus did: for without expecting any fartherdetermination, which Pompey had promisedthem, he went to the city Delius, and thencemarched into Judea. At this behaviour Pompey was angry: andtaking with him that army which he wasleading against the Nabateans, and the aux­iliaries that came from Damascus, and theother parts of Syria; with the other Romanlegions which he had with him; he made anexpedition against Aristobulus. But as hepassed by Pella, and Scythopolis, he cameto Coreae; which is the first entrance into Judea when one passes over the midlandcountries. There he came to a most beau­tiful fortress, (that was built on the top ofthe mountain called Alexandrium,) whitherAristobulus had fled; and thence Pompeysent his commands to him, that he shouldcome to him. Accordingly, at the persuasionsof many, that he would not make war withthe Romans, he came down. And when hehad disputed with his brother about his rightsto the government, he went up again to thecitadel; as Pompey gave him leave to do.And this he did two or three times: flatter­ing himself with the hopes of having thekingdom granted to him. So that he stillpretended he would obey Pompey in what­soever he commanded: although at the sametime he retired to his fortress; that he mightnot depress himself too low; and that hemight be prepared for a war, in case it should })rove as he feared, that Pompey would trans­fer the government to Hyrcanus. But whenPompey enjoined Aristobulus to deliver upthe fortresses he held; and to send an injunc­tion to their governors, under his own hand,for that purpose: (for they had been forbid­den to deliver them up upon any other com­mands:) he submitted to do so; but still heretired in displeasure to Jerusalem, and madepreparation for war. A little after this, cer­tain persons came out of Pontus, and inform­ed Pompey, as he was on the way, and con­ducting his army against Aristobulus, thatMithridates was slain by his son Pharnaces. CHAP. IV. OF THE IMPRISONMENT OP ARISTOBULUS, AND THE SIEGEAND REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM BY FOMPKY. WHEN Pompey thad pitched his campat Jericho, (where J the palm-treegrows, and that balsam which is an ointmentof all the most precious: which, upon an in­cision made in the wood with a sharp stone,distils out like a juice:) he marched in the * See the note, Book XIII. chap. 10. t An. 63. t These express testimonies of Josephus's here, andVIII. 6, and XV. 4. that the only balsam gardens, and thebest palm-trees were, at least in his days, near Jerichoand Engaddi; about the north part of the Dead Sea:(whereabout also Alexander the Great saw the balsamdrop, Thund. Legion, page 38, 56,) shew the mistake ofthose that understand Eusebius and Jerom, as if one of VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42. those gardens were at the south part of that sea, at Zoaror Segor. Whereas they must either mean another Zoaror Segor, which was between Jericho and Engaddi, agree­ably to Josephus; which yet they do not appear to do:or else they directly contradict Josephus; ana were there­in greatly mistaken. I mean this, unless that balsam, andthe best palm-trees, grew much more southward in Judeain the time of Eusebius and Jerom than they did in thedays of Josephus. 4K