OCR Output A. D. 19.} OF TACITUS. 127 source of dissension. He condemned the conduct ofPiso; and in return met with nothing but contumacy,and a spirit of opposition to all his measures. Pisowas at length determined to evacuate Syria: hearing,however, that Germanicus was attacked by a sud­den illness, he changed his resolution. He had soonafter the mortification of learning that the disorderwas abated. At Antioch the news diffused a generaljoy. The people of that place had offered vows forthe recovery of the prince: and, having obtained theobject of their wishes, began by solemn rites to dis­charge the obligations which they had imposed uponthemselves. Enraged at this proceeding, Piso inter­rupted the ceremonies; by his lictors he drove thevictims from the altars; he spread terror and con­fusion through the temples, and dispersed the con­gregation. After this exploit he withdrew to Seleu-cia. At that place, having advice that Germanicuswas relapsed, he resolved to make some stay, in ex­pectation of the event. The prince suspected thatpoison had been secretly conveyed by Piso, and thatidea added to the malignity of his disorder. A discovery was made of a singular nature. Un­der the floor, and in the cavities of the walls, a col­lection of human bones was found, with charms, andmagic verses, and incantations. The name of Ger­manicus was graved on plates of lead; fragments ofhuman bodies, not quite consumed to ashes, werediscovered in a putrid condition; with a variety ofthose magic spells, which, according to the vulgaropinion, are of potency to devote the souls of theliving to the infernal gods. Amidst the confusion oc­casioned by these extraordinary circumstances, mes­sengers were sent by Piso to inquire after the healthof Germanicus; but those men were considered asspies, who came to watch for intelligence. LXX. Germanicus was informed of all that passed.Fear and indignation took possession of him by turns." If my doors," he said, " are to be besieged by my" enemies; if interlopers are to see me at the pomt of4' expiration, what is the prospect that my wife has" before her ? and what are my children to expect?