OCR Output MOTYA.M0XOENE. 375 Hannibal landed at the promontory of Lilybaeum,that general laid up his fleet for security in the gulfaround Motya, while he advanced with his landforces aloug the coast to attack Selinus. (I)iod. xiii.64, 61.) After the fall of the latter city, we aretold that Hermccrates, the Syracuaan exile, whohad established himself on its ruins with a numerousband of followers, laid waste the territories of Motyaand Panomius (Id. xiii. 63); and again during thesecond expedition of the Carthaginians under Ha-milcar (b. c. 407), these two cities became the per­manent station of the Carthaginian fleet. (Id. xiii.88.) It was the important position to which Motyahad thus attained that led Dionysius of Syracuse todirect his principal efforts to its reduction, when inB. c. 397 he in his turn invaded the Carthaginiant«Titory in Sicily. The citizens on the other hand,reiving on succour from Carthage, made preparationsfor a vigorous resistance; and by cutting off thecauseway which united them to the mainland, com­piled Dionysius to have recourse lo the tedious andlaborious process of constructing a mound or mole ofearth across the intervening space. Even whenthis was accomplished, and the military engines ofDionysius (among which the formidable catapult onthis occasion made its appearance for the first time)were brought np to the walls, the Motynns continueda desperate resistance; and after the walls and towerswere carried by the overwhelming forces of tlioenemy, still maintained the defence from street tostreet and from house to house. This obstinatestruggle only increased the previous exasperation ofthe Sicilian Greeks against the Carthaginians; andwhen at length the troops of Dionysius made them­selves masters of the city, they put the whole sur­viving population, men, women, and children, to the»word. (Diod. xiv. 47—63.) After this the Syra-cosan despot placed it in charge of a garrison underan officer named Biton; while his brother Leptineamade it the station of his fleet. But the nextspring (B-c. 396) Himilcon, the Carthaginian ge­nera), having landed at Panormns with a very largeforce, recovered possession of Motya with compa­ratively little difficulty. (Id. ib. 55.) That city,however, was not destined to recover its former im­portance; for Himilcon, being apparently struckwith the superior advantages of Lilybaeum, foundeda new city on the promontory of that name, to whichbe transferred the few remaining inhabitants ofMotya. (Diod. xxii. 10. p. 498.) From this periodthe latter altogether disappears from history; andthe little islet on which it was built, has probablyever since been inhabited only by a few fishermen. The site of Motya, on which earlier geographerswere in mnch doubt, has been clearly identified anddescribed by Captain Smyth. Between the pro­montory of Lilybaeum (Capo Boeo) and that ofAegithallua (S. Teodoro), the coast forms a deepbight, in front of which lies a long group of lowrocky islets, called the Stagnone. Within these,and considerably nearer to the mainland, lies thesmall island called & Pantaleo, on which the re­mains of an ancient city may still be distinctlytraced. Fragments of the walls, with those of twogateways, still exist, and coins as well as pieces ofancient brick and potteiy—the never failing indi­cations of an ancient site — are found scatteredthnmghoat the island. The circuit of the latterdata not exceed a mile and a half, and it is inha­bited only by a few fishermen; bnt is not devoid of fertility. (Smyth's Stcih/, pp. 235, 236.) The con­fined space on which the city was built agreeswith the description of Diodorus that the houseswere lofty and of solid construction* with narrowstreets (orcranrof) between them, which facilitatedthe desperate defence of the inhabitants. (Diod. xiv.48, 51.) It is a singular fact that, though we have noaccount of Motya having received any Greek po­pulation, or fallen into the hands of the Greeksbefore its conquest by Dionysius, there exist coins ofthe city with the Greek legend MOTTA10N.They are, however, of great rarity, and are ap­parently imitated from those of the neighbouringcity of Segesta. (Eckhel, vol. i. p.225.) [E.H.B.J COIX OK MOTYA. MO'TYCA, or MU'TYCA (MoVowta, Ptol.: Eth.Mutycensis, Cic. et Plin.: Modica), an inland townin the SE. of Sicily, between Syracuse and Cama-rina. It was probably from an early period a de­pendency of Syracuse; and hence we meet with nomention of its name until after the Roman conquestof Sicily, when it became an independent muni-cipium, and apparently n place of some consequence.Cicero tells us that previous to the exactions ofVerres, its territory (the "ager Mutycensis") sup­ported 187 farmers, whence it would appear to havebeen at once extensive and fertile. (Cic. Verr.iii. 43, 51.) Motyca is also mentioned among theinland towns of the island both by Pliny and Pto­lemy; and though its name is not found in theItineraries, it is ngain mentioned by the Geographerof Ravenna. (Plin. iii. 8. § 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 14;Geogr. Rav. v. 23.) Silius Italicus also includes itin his list of Sicilian cities, and immediately asso­ciates it with Netum, with which it was clearly inthe same neighbourhood. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 268.)There can be no doubt that it is represented by themodern city of Modica, one of the largest and mostpopulous places in the Val di Aofo. It is situatedin a deep valley, surrounded by bare limestone moun­tains, about 10 miles from the sea. Ptolemy notices also a river to which he gives thename of Motychanus (Motoxwoi *otoh6s), whichhe places on the S. coast, and must evidently deriveits name from the city. It is cither the triflingstream now known as the Fiume di Sckli, which risesvery near Modica; or perhaps the more considerableone, now known as fiume di Jiaguta, which flowswithin a few miles of the same city. [E. H. B.] MO'TYUM (Motvov), a small town or fortress ofSicily, in the territory of Agrigentum. It was besiegedin B. c. 451 by the Siculian chief Ducctius, and fellinto his hands after a battle in which he defeatedthe Agrigentines and their allies; but was recoveredby the Agrigentines in the course of the followingsummer. (Diod. xi. 91.) No other mention of it isfound, and its site is wholly unknown. [E. H. B.] MOXOE'NE, one of the five provinces beyondthe Tigris, ceded by Names to Galcrius and thoRomans, and which Sapor afterwards recovered B u 4