OCR Output B. II. 137 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. manders in the expedition were Carcinus son of Xenotimus,Proteas son of Epicles, and Socrates son of Antigenes. Un­der their orders, the fleet so furnished out weighed anchorand sailed away. The Peloponnesians, continuing in Attica till provisionsbegan to fail them, retired not by the same route they camtin, but marched away through Boeotia. And passing byOropus, they wasted the tract of ground called Piraice, whichwas occupied by the Oropians, who were subject to Athens.On their return into Peloponnesus, the army was dispersedinto their several cities. After their departure, the Athenians settled the properstations for their guards both by land and sea, in the samedisposition as they were to continue to the end of the war.They also made a decree, that " a thousand talents should betaken from the fund of treasure in the citadel, and laid upby itself; that this sum should not be touched, but the ex­pense of the war be defrayed from the remainder—and, thatif any one moved or voted for converting this money to anyother use, than the necessary defence of the city, in case theenemy attacked it by sea, he should suffer the penalty ofdeath." Beside this, they selected constantly every year ahundred of their best triremes, with the due number of ablecommanders. These also they made it capital to use uponany other occasion, than that extremity for which the reserveof money was destined. The Athenians on board the fleet of one hundred sail onthe coasts of Peloponnesus, being joined by the Corcyreansin fifty ships and by some other of their confederates inthose parts, hovered for a time and infested the coast, andat length made a descent and assaulted Methone a town ofLaconia, whose walls were but weak and poorly manned.It happened that Brasidas* the son of Tellis a Spartan had • Here the name of BrcuiJas first occurs, and I must beg tlic reader tonote him as one who is to make no ordinary figure in the sequel. Trainedup through the regular and severe discipline ot Sparta, he was brave, vigi.lant, and active, lie was second to none of his countrymen, in those ga.A