OCR Output A. D. 17.] 107 OF TACITUS. cus more warmly to his interest. They consideredhim, by the maternal line, of higher birth than Dru-sus; Marc Antony was his grand-father, and Augus­tus Csesar his great uncle. On the other hand, Pom-ponius Atticus, the great grand-father of Drusus, hav­ing never risen above the rank of a Roman knight,seemed to tarnish the lustre of the Claudian line. Themerit of Agrippina weighed greatly in the scale. Shehad brought to Germanicus a numerous offspring;and her character, free from blemish, placed her in apoint of view superior to the younger Livia, the wifoof Drusus. The two brothers, amidst the heat of con­tending parties, lived in perfect harmony: their friendswere at variance, but the princes loved each other. XLIV. Drusus was soon after sent to command thearmy in Illyricum. In that school of military sciencehe might improve in the ert of war, and gain the af­fections of the army. The camp, Tiberius thought,would wean a young man from the dissolute man­ners of the capital. He had still another motive: whilehis two sons were at the head of the legions, hemight live in security, free from danger, and everypossible alarm. But the ostensible reason for the ex­pedition of Drusus, was an application from the Sue-vians, praying the assistance of Rome against theCheruscans, who had turned their disappointed rageagainst their countrymen. The fact was, Germanybeing at thai time evacuated by the Romans, the dif­ferent nations of that country, no longer dreading aforeign invasion, began, according to the genius ofbarbarians, to quarrel among themselves. The pre­sent difference was a struggle for power between tworival states. The strength on each side was nearlyequal; the abilities of the chiefs much upon a balance;but the name of king was detested by the Suevians,and, by consequence, Maroboduus was unpopular.On the opposite side, Arminius, the champion of li­berty, was the idol of his country. XLV. Arminius took the field at the head of a con­siderable army. The Cheruscans, and a large bodyof allies, accustomed to fight under him, followed hisstandard. To these were added the Semnonss and