OCR Output OF. TH £ ; ROMAN EMPIRE. 487 likewise, the situation of the first Christians coincided very happilywith their religious scruples, and that their aversion to an active.life contributed rather to excuse them from the service, than to.exclude them from the honours, of the state and army. V. But the human character, however it may be exalted The fifthor depressed by a temporary enthusiasm, will return by degrees to The Chris-its proper and natural level*and will resume those passions that seem f,ansactlve * r 9 in thegovern- the most adapted to its present condition. The primitive Christians ment os tl>e church. were dead to the business and pleasures of the world; but theirlove of action, which could never be entirely extinguished, soonrevived, and found a new occupation in the government of thechurch. A separate society, which attacked the established religion4)£ the empire, was obliged to adopt some form of internal policy,and to appoint a sufficient, number of ministers, intrusted not onlyrwith the spiritual functions, but even with the temporal directionof the Christian commonwealth. The safety of that society, itshonour, its aggrandisement, were; productive, even in the mostpious minds, of a spirit of patriotism, such as the first of theRomans had felt for the republic, and sometimes, of a similarindifference, in the use of whatever means might probably conduceto so desirable an end. The ambition of raising themselves or theirfriends to the honours and offices of the church, was disguised bythe laudable intention of devoting to the public benefit, the powerAnd consideration, which, for that purpose only, it became theirduty to solicit. In the exercise of their functions, they were fre­quently called upon to detect the. errors of heresy, or the arts offaction, to oppose the designs of perfidious brethren, to stigmatizetheir characters with deserved infamy, and to expel them from thebosom of a society, whose peace and happiness they had attempted.to disturb. The spiritual guides of Christianity were taught tounite the wisdom of the serpent with the innocence of the dove;but as the former was refined, so the latter was insensibly cor-.• : .1 4 rupted,