OCR Output 400 ROMAN EMPIRE. a loud voice,—God is victorious. O Lord, give us anan easy conquest! and pitching his tent of coarse hair,calmly seated himself on the ground. After signing thecapitulation, he entered the city without fear or precau­tion; and courteously discoursed with the patriarchconcerning its religious antiquities."1 Sophronius bowedbefore his new master, and secretly muttered, in thewords of Daniel,—The abomination of desolation is in theholy place." At the hour of prayer they stood togetherin the church of the resurrection; but the caliph refusedto perform his devotions, and contented himself withpraying on the steps of the church of Constantine. Tothe patriarch he disclosed his prudent and honourablemotive. Had I yielded (said Omar) to your request, theMoslems of a future age would have infringed the treaty,under colour of imitating my example. By his commandthe ground of the temple of Solornon was prepared forthe foundation of a mosch;0 and, during a residence often days, he regulated the present and future state ofhis Syrian conquests. Medina might be jealous, lestthe caliph should be detained by the sanctity of Jeru­salem or the beauty of Damascus; her apprehensionswere dispelled by his prompt and voluntary return to thetomb of the apostle ,p '" The Arabs boast of an old prophecy preserved at Jerusalem, and describingthe name, the religion, and the person of Omar, the future conqueror. By sucharts the Jews are said to have soothed the pride of their foreign masters, Cyrusand Alexander. (Joseph. Ant. Jud. lib. 11. c. 1.8. p. 547. 679—58*.) "To fSSitiUffta TH; tpifturtiac TO pn8iv Jin A««X TOU irlo^nrou IOTMC n tn» a.yt*.Theophan. Chronograph, p. 'Jill. This prediction, which had already served forAntiochus and the Romans, was again refitted for the present occasion, by theeconomy of Sophronius, one of the deepest theologians of the Monothelite con­troversy. 0 According to the accurate eurvey of d'Anville, (Dissertation tax 1'ancienneJerusalem, p. 42—54.) the mosch of Omar, enlarged and embellished by succeed­ing caliphs, covered tin' ground of the ancient temple (waXaioT •no fitya\w mmiWtJor, says Pbocas), a length of two hundred and fifteen, :i breadth of one hundredand seventy-two, toises. The Nubian geographer declares, that this magnifi­cent structure was second only in size and beauty to the great mosch of Cordova,(p. 113.) whose present state Mr. Swinburne has so elegantly represented. (Tra­vels into Spain, p. 396—302.) i' Of the many Arabic tarikhs or chronicles of Jerusalem, (d'Herbelot, p. 867.)Qckley found one among the Pocock MSS.of Oxford,(vol, 1. p. 257.) which he huused to supply the defective narrative of Al Wakidi.