OCR Output 124 LAPATHUS. LAPPA. (Diam/i. xiii. 447), owed its name to tlio legendaryLajiathus, a follower of Dionysus. Strabo (/. c.)says that it received a Syrian colony, headed byPraxander. He add*, that it was situated oppositeto the town of Nagidus, in Cilicia, and possessed aharbour and docks. It was situated in the N. of theisland, on a river of the same name, with a districtcalled Lai-ktiiia (Aanjfli'a, l'lol. v. 14. § 5). Inthe war between Ptolemy and Antigonus, Lnpathus,with its king Praxippus, sided with the latter, (Diod.xix. 59.) The name of this place was synonymouswith stupidity. (SuiJ. >. v. Aaira&oi.) Pococke(Trar. in tlie F.ast, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 223) saw atLapilho several walls that were cut out of the rock,and one entire room, over the sea: there were alsoremains of some towers and walls. (Mariti, Viagyi,vol. i. p. 125 ; Engel, Kyprot, vol. L pp. 3". 78, 174,224, 364. 507.) [E. B. J.J LAPATHUS. a fortress in the north of Thessaly,near Tempo, which Leake identities with the an­cient castle near Raptani. (Liv. xliv. 2, 6; Leake,Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 397, 418.)LAPHY'STllM. [Bokotia, p. 412, b.]LAPIDEI CAMPI or LAPIDEUS CAMPUS(vioio* AitiwSer, \i0ivov Ttoiav'), in <iallia Narbo-nensis. Strabo (p. 182) says: " Between Massaliaand the mouths of the Rhone there is a plain, about100 stadia from the sea, arid as much in diameter,being of a circular form; and it is called theStony, from its character; for it is full of stones, ofthe size of a man's fist, which have grass growingamong them, which furnishes abundant food foranimals: and in the middle there is standing water,and salt springs, and salt. Now all the country thatlies above is windy, but on this plain especially theMelamborian (Aa But) comes down in squalls, — aviolent and chilling wind: accordingly, they say thatsome of the stones are moved and rolled about, andthat men are thrown down from vehicles, and strippedboth of arms and clothing by the blast." This isthe plain called Ijx Crau, near the east sido of theeast branch of the delta of the Khone, and near theE'tniyj de Berre. It is described by Arthur Young(7'ruifti, cfc. vol. i. p. 379, 2nd ed.), who visited andsaw |>art of the plain. He supposed that there mightbe about 136.780 English acres. "It is composedentirely of shingle—being so uniform a mass of roundstones, some to the size of a man's head, but of allsizes less, that the newly thrown up shingle of a sea­shore U hardly less free from soil. Beneath thesesurf:ice-stones is not so much a sand as a kind ofcemented rubble, a small mixture of loam with frag­ments of stone. Vegetation is rare and miserable.*The only use that the uncultivated part is turned to,he says, is to feed, in winter, an immense number ofsheep, which in summer feed in the Alps towardsBarcelonette and Piedmont When be saw the place,in August, it was very bare. The number of sheepsaid to be fed there is evidently an exasperation.Some large tracts of the Crau had been broken upwhen be was there, and planted with vines, olives,and mulberries, and converted into corn and meadow.Com had not succeeded; but the meadows, ooveredrichly with "clover, chicory, rib-grass, and arenatlatior' presented an extraordinary contrast to the■oil in its natural state. The name Crau is probablya Celtic word. In the Slatittijue du Depart dieIkmchtt du Rhone (torn. ii. p. 190, quoted in Ukcrt'sGallien, 425) it is supposed that Croon, as it iathere written, ia a Ligurian word; wiiich may betrue, or it may Dot. What is added u more valuable information: "There is in Provence a number nfplaces which have this name; and one may even saythat there is not a village which has not in its terri­tory a Crnou." Aristotle (Strabo, p. 182) supposed that earth­quakes, of the kind named Braslae threw up thesestones to the earth's surface, and that they rolleddown together to the hollow places in these parts.Posidonius, who, having travelled in Gal I.a, ha Iprobably seen the Crau, supposed that the place wasonce a lake. Here the text in Strabo is obscure, andperhaps corrupt: but he seems to mean that tbeaction of water rounded the stones, for he adds, aftercertain words not easy to explain, that (owing tothis motion of the water?) " it was divided intomanrstones, like the pebbles in rivers and the shingle onthe sea-sbore." Strabo (whose text is here againsomewhat corrupted) considers both explanations asfar true, that stones of this kind could uot have beenso made of themselves, but must have come fromgreat rocks being repeatedly broken. Another hypo­thesis, not worth mentioning, is recorded in the note*of Eustathius {ad Dionys. Periea. v. 76). It is a proof of the early communication betweenthe Phocaean colony of Mass.ilia and other parts .fGreece, that Aeschylus, whose geography is neitherextensive nor exact, was acquainted with the existenceof this stony plain; for in the Prometheui Unbound(quoted by Strabo) he makes Prometheus tell Herculesthat when he comes into the country of the Ligyea,Zeus will Bend him a shower of round stones, to de­feat the Ligurian army with. This stony plain wasa good ground for mythological figments. (The fol­lowing passages of ancient authors refer to this plain:Mela, ii. 5; Plin. iii. 4, xxi. 10; Gellius, it 22, azxiSeneca, Xat. Quaest. v. 17, who speak of the violentwind in this part of Gallia; and Dionys, Halicara.i. 41, who quotes part of the passage from thePromeUieua Unbound.) This plain of stones probably owes its origin to tbefloods of the Khone and the Durance, at some rernot*c|-k_ 11 when the lower part of the delta of the Rliorwwas covered by the sea. [G. L.] LA'PITHAE (AavMoi), a mythical race in Thes-saly. See Diet, of liiogr. and Myth. Vol. IL p. 781. LAPITHAKL.M. [UcojriA.p. U3,a.] LAPITHAS. [Bus. p. 817, b.] LAPPA, LAMPA (Aomro, Pud. iii. 17. § 10;AaVva. Aifiwai, Hicrocl. ; A<uur», Steph. B.: £lh.Aaroaius, Aa^va7ot), an inland tuwn of Crete, witha district extending from sea to sea (Scylax, p. 18Xand possessing the port Phoenix. (Strab. x. p.475 )Although the two forms of this city's name occur iaancient authors, yet on coins and in inscriptions theword Lappa is alone found. Stephanua of Byaantinmahows plainly that the two names denote ths sameplace, when he says that Xenion, in his Crttica, wrotethe word Lappa, and not Lamps. The same an:bur(i. v. AaV«Tj) says that it was founded by Agamem­non, and was called after one Lampos, a Tarrliaean;the interpretation of which seems to be that it wasta colony of Taxrha. When Lyctus had been destroyed by the Cnosaiana,its citizens found refuge with tbe people of Lapp*(Polyb. iv. 53). After tbe submission of Cyduuia,Cnossus, Lyctus, and Eleutbema, to the arms of Mr-tellus, the Humans advanced against Lappa, wt* hwas taken by storm, and appears to have been alrmtentirely destroyed. (Dion Cass, xxxvi. 1.) Attxnsvtus, in consideration of the aid rendered to hint 1-ythe Lappaeans in his struggle with M. Antauua,