OCR Output 56 [A. U. C. 768. THE ANNALS LXI. Touched by this affecting circumstance, Ger-manicus resolved to pay the last human office to therelics of that unfortunate commander, and his slaugh­tered soldiers. The same tender sentiment diffuseditself through the army: some felt the touch of na­ture for their relations, others for their friends; andall lamented the disasters of war, and the wretchedlot of human kind. Carina was sent forward to ex­plore the woods: where the waters were out. to throwup bridges; and, by heaping loads of earth on theswampy soil, to secure a solid footing. The armymarched through a gloomy solitude. The place pre­sented an awful spectacle, and the memory of a tragi­cal event increased the horror of the scene. The firstcamp of Varus appeared in view. The extent of theground,and the three different inelosures forthe eagles,still distinctly seen, left no doubt that the whole wasthe work of the three legions. Farther on were tracedthe ruins of a rampart, and the hollow of a ditch wellnigh filled up. This was supposed to be the spot wherethe few, who escaped the general massacre, madetheir last effort, and perished in the attempt. Theplains around were white with bones, in some placesthinly scattered, in others lying in heaps, as the menhappened to fall in flight, or in a body resisted tothe last. Fragments of javelins, and the limbs ofhorses, lay scattered about the field. Human skulls,were seen upon the trunks of trees. In the adjacentwoods stood the savage altars where the tribunes andprincipal centurions were offered up a sacrifice withbarbarous rites. Some of the soldiers who survivedthat dreadful day, and afterwards broke their chains,related circumstantially several particulars. " Here" the commanders of the legions were put to the"sword: on thai spot the eagles were seized. There" Varus received his first wound: and this is the place" where he gave himself the mortal stab, and died by" his own sword. Yonder mound was the tribunal from" which Ajrminius harangued his countrymen: here"he fixed his gibbets; there he dug the funeral*' trenches, and in that quarter he offered every mark