OCR Output CHAP. Xtlll.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2g3 with the blood of the faithful. Buccelin was actuatedby ambition, and Lothaire by avarice. The former as­pired to restore the Gothic kingdom: the latter, after apromise to his brother of speedy succours, returned bythe same road to deposit his treasure beyond the Alps.The strength of their armies was already wasted by thechange of climate and contagion of disease: the Ger­mans revelled in the vintage of Italy; and their ownintemperance avenged, in some degree, the miseries of adefenceless people. At the entrance of the spring, the imperial troops, whohad guarded the cities, assembled to the number of eigh- Defeat ofteen thousand men, in the neighbourhood of Rome. and Aie-Their winter hours had not been consumed in idleness. Na™e kyBy the command, and after the example, of Narses, they A-D-55*-repeated each day their military exercise on foot and onhorseback, accustomed their ear to obey the sound ofthe trumpet, and practised the steps and evolutions of.the Pyrrhic dance. From the straits of Sicily, Buccelin,with thirty thousand Franks and Alemanni, slowlymoved towards Capua, occupied with a wooden tower thebridge of Casilinum, covered his right by the stream ofthe Vulturnus, and secured the rest of his encampment,by a rampart of sharp stakes, and a circle of waggons,whose wheels were buried in the earth. He impatientlyexpected the return of Lothaire; ignorant, alas! that hisbrother could never return, and that the chief and hisarmy had been swept away by a strange diseased on thebanks of the lake Benacus, between Trent and Verona.The banners of Narses soon approached the Vulturnus,and the eyes of Italy were anxiously fixed on the eventof this final contest; Perhaps the talents of the Romangeneral were most conspicuous in the calm operations in Switzerland, idolatry still prevailed in the year 613: St. Colomban and St. Gallwere the apostles of that rude country; and the latter founded a hermitage, whichlias swelled into an ecclesiastical principality and a populous city, the seat of freedomand commerce. d See the death of Lothaire in Agathias (lib. 2. p. 38.) and Paul Warnefrid, sur-named Diaconus. (lib. 8. c. 3. 775.) The Greek makes bim rave and tear liia flesh.He had plundered churches.