OCR Output Chap. XII.J NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 439 the previous epoch was now completed also in the sphere ofeducation and culture. We have already shown how thefundamental idea of the Roman system—civil equality—hadalready during the sixth century begun to be underminedin this field also. Even in the time of Pictor and CatoGreek culture was widely diffused in Rome, and there wasa native Roman culture; but neither of them had thengot beyond the initial stage. Cato's encyclopaedia showstolerably what was understood at this period by a Romano-Greek model training (ii. 468); it was little more than anembodiment of the old Roman household knowledge, andtruly, when compared with the Hellenic culture of theperiod, scanty enough. At how low a stage the averageinstruction of youth in Rome still stood at the beginning ofthe seventh century, may be inferred from the expressionsof Polybius, who in this one respect prominently censuresthe criminal indifference of the Romans as compared withthe intelligent private and public care of his countrymen;no Hellene, not even Polybius himself, could rightly under­stand the deeper idea of civil equality that lay at the root ofthis indifference. Now the case was altered. Just as the naive popularfaith was superseded by an enlightened Stoical super-naturalism, so in education alongside of the simple popularinstruction a special training, an exclusive humamias, de­veloped itself and eradicated the last remnants of the oldsocial equality. It will not be superfluous to cast a glanceat the aspect assumed by the new instruction of the young,both the Greek and the higher Latin. It was a singular circumstance that the same man, who Greek in-in a political point of view definitively vanquished the struction.Hellenic nation, Lucius JEmilius Paullus, was at the sametime the first or one of the first who fully recognized theHellenic civilization as—what it has thenceforth continuedto be beyond dispute—the civilization of the ancient world.He himself no doubt was an old man, before it was grantedto him, with the Homeric poems in his mind, to stand beforethe Zeus of Phidias; but his heart was young enough tocarry home the full sunshine of Hellenic beauty and theunconquerable longing after the golden apples of theHesperides in his soul ; poets and artists had found in theforeigner a more earnest and cordial devotee than was anyof the wise men of the Greece of those days. He made