OCR Output pg ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Bopk XVII. were to row among the mariners; but slewJiim that inducedhim to do what he had done ; for as for the people of Melos,he thought them sufficiently punished, in having thrown awayso much of their money upon this spurious Alexander. Andsuch was the ignominious conclusion of this bold contrivance a-rbout the spurious Alexander^ . • . ,.-. -r.. .: i. • , - . • . CHAP. XIII. How ArcT}elaust upon a second Accusation, -Mas latusbed toVienna. Archelaus was entered on his ethnarchy, andwas come into Judea, he accused .loazar, the son ofBoethus, of assisting the seditious, and took away the high-priest-hood from him, and put Eleazer his brother in his place. Healso magnificently rebuilt the royal palace that had been at Jeri­cho, and he diverted half the water with which the village ofNeara used to be watered, and drew off that water into the plain,to water those palm-trees which he had there planted , he alsobuilt a village, and put his own name upon it, and called itArchekis. Moreover, he * transgressed the law of our fathers,and married Glaphyra, the daughter of Archelaus, who hadbeen the wife of his brother Alexander, which Alexander hadthree children by her, while it was a thing detestable among theJews, to marry the brother's wife ; nor did this Eleazer abidelong in the high-priesthood, Jesus, the son of Sie, being put inhis room while he was still living. 2. But in the tenth year of Archelaus's government, both hisbrethren, and the principal men of Judea and Samafia, notbeing able to bear his barbarous and tyrannical usage of them;accused him before Caesar, and that especially because they knewhe had broken the commauds of Caesar, which obliged him tobehave himself with moderation among them. WhereuponCaesar, when he heard it, was very angry, and called for Arche­laus's steward, who took care of his affairs at Rome, and whosename was Archelaus also, and thinking it beneath him to writeto Archelaus, he bid him sail away as soon as possible, and bringhim to us ; so the man made haste in his voyage, and when hecame into Judea he found Archelaus feasting with his friends ;BO he told him what Ctcsar had sent him about, and hastened himaway. And when he was come [to Rome], Caesar, upon hear­ing what certain accusers of his had to say, and what reply he could * Spanheim seasonably observes here, that it was forbidden th'e Jews to marrytheir brother's wife, when she had children by her first husband, and that 2p-aoras (cites, or) interprets the clause before us accordingly.