OCR Output 336 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. Signia; they retired before him as far as the so-called"Port of Sacer," between Signia and the chief strongholdHis victory of the Marians, the strong Praeneste. There Marius drewat Sacripor- up his force for battle. His army was about 40,000 strong,tus- and he was in savage fury and personal bravery the true son of his father; but his troops were not the well-trainedbands with which the latter had fought his battles, andstill less could this inexperienced young man bear com­parison with the old master of war. His troops soon gaveway; the defection of a division even during the battleaccelerated the defeat. More than the half of the Marianswere dead or prisoners; the remnant, unable either to keepthe field or to gain the other bank of the Tiber, was com­pelled to seek protection in the neighbouring fortresses;the capital, which they had neglected to provision, wasDemocratic irrecoverably lost. In consequence of this Marius gavemassacres in orders to Lucius Brutus Damasippus the praetor com-Rome- manding there to evacuate it, but before doing so to putto death all the notable men, hitherto spared, of the oppositeparty. This injunction, by which the son even outdid theproscriptions of his father, was carried into effect; Dama­sippus made a pretext for convoking the senate, and themarked men were struck down partly in the sittingitself, partly on their flight from the senate-house. Not­withstanding the thorough clearance previously effected,there were still found several victims of note. Such werethe late aedile Publius Antistius, the father-in-law of GnaeusPompeius, and the late praetor Gaius Carbo, son of thewell-known friend and subsequent opponent of the Gracchi(P. 132), since the death of so many men of more distin­guished talent the two best judicial orators in the desolatedForum; the consular Lucius Domitius, and above, all thevenerable pontifex maximus Quintus Scavola, who hadescaped the dagger of Fimbria only to bleed to deathduring these last throes of the revolution in the vestibuleof the temple of Vesta intrusted to his guardianship. Withspeechless horror the multitude saw the corpses of theselast victims of the reign of terror dragged through thestreets, and thrown into the river.Siege of The broken bands of Marius threw themselves into Xorba Praeneste, and Praeneste, strong cities oJ new burgesses in the neighbour­hood; Marius in person with the treasure and the greaterpart of the fugitives entered the latter. Sulla left behind