OCR Output CHAP. LII. 519 sidence and the camp of his barbarian favourites at Sa­mara on the Tigris, about twelve leagues above the cityof Peace/ His son Motawakkel was a jealous and crueltyrant: odious to his subjects, he cast himself on the fi­delity of the strangers, and these strangers, ambitious andapprehensive, were tempted by the rich promise of a re­volution. At the instigation, or at least in the cause ofhis son, they burst into his apartment at the hour of sup­per, and the caliph was cut into seven pieces by the sameswords which he had recently distributed among theguards of his life and throne. To this throne, yet stream­ing with a father's blood, Montasser was triumphantlyled; but in a reign of six months, he found only thepangs of a guilty conscience. If he wept at the sight ofan old tapestry which represented the crime and punish­ment of the sons of Chosroes; if his days were abridgedby grief and remorse, we may allow some pity to a par­ricide, who exclaimed in the bitterness of death, that hehad lost both this world and the world to come. Afterthis act of treason, the ensigns of royalty, the garmentand walking-staff of Mahomet, were given and tornaway by the foreign mercenaries, who in four years cre­ated, deposed, and murdered three commanders of thefaithful. As often as the Turks were inflamed by fear,or ravage, or avarice, these caliphs were dragged by thefeet, exposed naked to the scorching sun, beaten with ironclubs, and compelled to purchase, by the abdication oftheir dignity, a short reprieve of inevitable fate.8 Atlength, however, the fury of the tempest was spent or di­verted: the Abbassides returned to the less turbulent re­sidence of Bagdad; the insolence of the Turks was 1 He changed the old names of Sumere, or Samara, into the fanciful title ofSermen-Tdi, that which gives pleasure at first sight. (D'Herbelot, BibliothequeOrientale, p. 808. D'Anville, 1 Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 97, 98.) 8 Take a specimen, the death of the caliph Motaz: Correptum pedibus petra-hunt, etsudibus probe permulcant, et spoliatum lacoris vestibus in sole collocaot,prae cujus, acerrimo restd pedcs altemis attolebat et demittebat. Adstantium aliquismisero colaphos continuo ingerebat, quos ille objcctis manibus avertoro studebat Quo facto traditus tortori fuit totoque triduo cibo potuque prohibitus. .. . Sufibcatus, &c. (Abulfeda, p. iiOC.) Of the caliph Mohtadi, he says, cervices iflsiperpetuis ictibus coatundebant, testiculosque pedibus concu'cabant. (p. 208.)