OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 445 the effort or terror of his invincible arm, he broke, slaughtered,and put to flight a host-of an hundred and fifty thousand men.The credulity of Zosimus prevailed so strongly over his passion,that among the events of the memorable battle of Hadrianople, heseems to have selected and embellished, not the most important*but the most marvellous. The valour and danger of Constantinoare attested by a flight wound which he received in the thigh, but itmay be discovered even from an imperfect narration, and perhaps acorrupted text, that the victory was obtained no less by the conductof the general than by the courage of the hero; that a body offive thousand archers marched round to occupy a thick wood inthe rear of the enemy, whose attention was diverted by the prepa­ration of a bridge, and that Licinius, perplexed by so many artfulevolutions, was reluctantly drawn from his advantageous post, tocombat on equal ground in the plain. The contest was no longerequal. His confused multitude of new levies was easily vanquishedby the experienced veterans of the West. Thirty-four thousand.men are reported to have been slain. The fortified camp of Lici­nius was taken by assault the evening of the ,battle; the greater partof the fugitives, who had retired to the mountains, surrendered then>selves the next day to the discretion of the conqueror; and hisrival, who could no longer keep the field, confined himself withinthe walls of Byzantium ,p7. The siege of Byzantium, which was immediately, undertaken by Siege of By. ! i • i ii i • t "ntiumand Constantine, was attended with great labour and uncertainty. In naval victory,the late civil wars, the fortifications of that place, so justly considered of CnsPw-as the key of Europe and Asia, had been repaired and strengthened;and as long as Licinius remained master of the sea, the garrisonwas much less exposed to the danger of famine than the army ofthe besiegers. The naval commanders of Constantine were sum­moned to his camp, and received his positive orders to force thepassage of the Hellespont, as the fleet of Licinius, instead of seeking andi