OCR Output NILUS. 431 NILUS. Jk im Marry resembles in its natural featuresmi us rahrrstion of its batiks the acknowledgedathaW tht junction lower down. The current■ mfliad regular: the banks are firm and wellaaad: pydoas villages stand in the midst ofdata af data-trees or fields of millet (dJiuurra\aw atii the land and the water attest the activityaftsau enterprise. A oferrocs corresponding to these features isstent* abo in the respective currents of theseawn. Tat White Hirer mores sluggishly along,•taxi lipids or cataracts: the Blue Rirer runsaatfir it aQ leans!!, and after the periodical rainsBit lit force sad speed of a torrent. The direr-P* a ass also on the arrival of their waters at theaf jsactioa. Although the White Rirer ish ajrir rsins near the equator, its floods ordi-i aaartiias three weeks later thau thoseAnd at their place of meetingof the latter is apparent. For■a Krcnrrr flood discharges itself through afee from ban and shoals, the Whilea csCrscted at its month, and the more rapidaf its mal has thrown up a line of sandAetna! measurement, too, hasthe breadth of the Blue Birer at the pointto be 768 Tarda, while that of thea <aiv 483, and the body of water poured»y Iks fanner is double of that discharged byFrom all these circumstances it is pro­lan to the Bakr-el-Asret rather than to'd-Abiad belongs the name of the "truemi this supposition accords with an ancientaawjg the people of Scnnaar who hold the'a peculiar veneration as the "Father ofthat ran into the Great Sea."keowieJrt possessed by the ancients of theand tributaries of the Nile was notm a direct proportion to the date of theircgions. Indeed, the earlierBBBBrrce was more favourable to acquaint-■a Bat interior than were its later channels,aaaaaf route declined after the PtolemiesBad the trade from the rivers and the roadstat desert to Axutne, Adulis, Berenice, andkef tat Bed Sea. Eratosthenes and other geo-* who wrote while Aethiopia still flourished,■lbaaar means of information than their sue-'A aVansa limea, Strabo, Ptolemy, &c. Dio-(l *>), far example, says that a voyage upa» UtiM was a costly and hazardous under-NWsexplorers(Plin. v. 9. „. 10; Senec.I) seen to hare found in that once popu-awtut kingdom only solitude and decay.a» of the third century a. d. the Romans»«ry station on the Nile above Philae,the cast and care of defence,—a prooftf* CTW-traffic, beyond Aegypt, must hareMb, As the trade with Arabia and(Cejrfoa) by sea dereloped itself, that with•aahf ksosast af leaa Unpnrtsnce; and in pro­as tht Bad Sea was better known, theaad sources of the Nile were obscured.n».\sle (Wow Ute point of junction.—Them a artmrnnn bed for aereral mileswithout, however, blending theirTat baitr-J biad retains its white soapya* » the dry s<amn and during the inun-IVaVaV the Bakr-Atrtk is distinguished byffcsjaWr. Far 1» or 15 miles below slow the pointr and gloomy defile, until it emerges among the immense plainsof herbage in the mesopotamian district of Meroe.Beyond Meroe, already described [Mkkoe], the•Nile receives its last considerable affluent, the Asta-boras or Tacazze; the only other accessions to itsstream in its course northward being the torrents orwadys that, in the rainy season, descend from theArabian hills. From the N. of Meroe to Syene,a distance of about 700 miles, the river entersupon the region of Cataracts, concerning which theancients invented or credited so many marvels.(Cic Somn. Scip. 5; Senec. N. 0. iv. 2.) These rapids are seven in number, and aresimply dams or weirs of granite or porphyry risingthrough the sandstone, and, being little affectedby the attrition of the water, resist its action,divide its stream, and render its fall per miledouble of the average fall below Philae. So far,however, from the river descending lofty precipiceswith a deafening noise, even the steepest of thorapids may be shot, though not without some dan­ger, at high water; and at the great Cataract theentire descent in a space of 5 miles is only 80 feet.[Philae.] Increased by the stream of the Asta-boras, the Nile, from lat. 17° 45' N., flows in anortherly direction for 120 miles, through the landof the Berbers. Then comes its great SW. elbowor bend, commencing at the rocky island ofMogrtb (lat. 19° N.), and continuing nearlyto the most northern point of Meroe. Duringthis lateral deflection the Nile is bounded W. bythe deseit of Baliiouda, the region of the an­cient Nubae, and £. by the Arabian Desert, in­habited, or rather traversed, by the nomade Blem-myes and Megabari. [Macrobii.] Throughoutthis portion of its course the navigation of the riveris greatly impeded by rapids, so that the caravansleave its banks, and regain them by a road crossingthe eastern desert at Berr or Syene, between thefirst and second Cataracts. No monuments connectthis region with either Meroe or Aegypt It mustalways, indeed, have been thinly peopled, since theonly cultivable soil consists of strips or patches ofland extending about 2 miles at furthest beyondeither bank of the Nile. While skirting or intersecting the kingdom ofMeroe, tho river flowed by city and necropolis,which, according to some writers, imparted theirfonns and civilisation to Aegypt, according toothers derived both art and polity from it. Thedesert of Buhivuda severs the chain of monuments,which, however, is resumed below the fourth Cata­ract at Nouri, Gebel-eUBirktl, and Merawt.(Lat. 20° N.) Of thirty-five pyramids at AWt,on the left bank of the river, about half are ingood preservation; but the purpose which theyserred is uncertain, since no ruins of any citiespoint to them as a necropolis, and they are withoutsculptures or hieroglyphics. On the western sideof Gebel~el-Birkel, about 8 miles lower down, andon the right bank, are found not only pyramids, butalso the remains of several temples and the ves­tiges of a city, probably Napata, the capital of Can-dace, the Aetliiopian queen. [Napata.] (Cail-liaud, I' Isle de Meroe, vol. iii. p. 197; Hoskins,Travel*, p. 136—141.) About the 18th degreeof N. latitude the Nile resumes its northerly direc­tion, which it observes generally until it approachesthe second Cataract. In resuming its direct courseto N., it enters the kingdom of Dongola, and mostof the features which marked its channel through the