OCR Output 302 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. without loss of time to the recovery of Pylus. The rest ofthe Lacedaemonians were longer in their approach, as but justreturned from another expedition. Yet a summons had beensent all round Peloponnesus, to inarch directly for Pylus.Their fleet of sixty sail was also remanded from Corcyra,which, being transported by land over the isthmus of Leucas,arrive before Pylus, undescried by the Athenians who layat Zacynthus. And by this time the land army had also ap­proached. Demosthenes, before the coming up of the Peloponne-sian fleet, had timely dispatched two vessels to Eurymedonand the Athenians on board that fleet now lying at Zacyn--thus, pressing them to return, as the place was in danger ofbeing lost; which vessels made the best of their way, inpursuance of the earnest commands of Demosthenes. Butthe Lacedaemonians were now preparing to attack the for­tress both by land and sea, presuming it would easily bedestroyed, as the work had been raised with so much preci­pitation and was defended by so small a number of hands.But, as they also expected the return of the Athenian shipsfrom Zacynthus, they designed, in case they took not theplace before, to bar up the mouths of the harbour, so as torender the entrance impracticable to the Athenians. Foran isle, which is called Sphacteria, lying before and at asmall distance, locks it up and rendereth the mouths of theharbour narrow ; that near the fortress of the Athenians andPylus a passage for two ships only a-breast, and that be­tween the other points of land for eight or nine. The wholeof it, as desart, was overgrown with wood and quite untrod,and the compass of it at most is about fifteen stadia*. Theywere therefore intent on shutting up these entrances withships moored close together, and their heads towards thesea. And to prevent the molestation apprehended, shouldthe enemy take possession of this island, they threw into ita body of their heavy-armed, and posted another body on< • One mile and a half.