OCR Output An. 1106.] 203 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. replied, "O king, be not cast down, norafraid; for I will depress the insolence ofthis adversary;* and will go down and fightwith him, and will bring him under me, as talland as great as he is; till he shall be suffi­ciently laughed at, and thy army shall getgreat glory, when he shall be slain by onethat is not yet of man's estate, neither fit forfighting, nor capable of being intrusted withthe marshalling an army, or ordering a battle;but by one that looks like a child, and isreally no older in age than a child." Now Saul wondered at the boldness andalacrity of David; but durst not presume onhis ability, by reason of his age; but said, hemust on that account be too weak to fightwith one that was skilful in the art of war."I undertake this enterprise," said David,"in dependance of God's being with me; forI have experienced already of his assistance.For I once pursued after and caught a lionthat assaulted my flocks, and took away alamb from me; and I snatched the lamb outof the wild beast's mouth; and when heleaped upon me with violence, I took him bythe tail, and dashed him against the ground.In the same manner did I avenge myself of abear also. And let this adversary of ours beesteemed like one of these wild beasts, sincehe has a long while reproached our army,and blasphemed our God, who yet will re­duce him under my power." Saul prayed that the end might be, byGod's assistance, not disagreeable to thealacrity and boldness of the child, and said,"Go thy way to the fight." So he put abouthim his breast-plate, and girded on his sword,and fitted the helmet to his head, and wentaway. But David was burdened with hisarmour; for he had not been exercised to it,nor had he learned to walk with it. So hesaid, "Let this armour be thine, O king, who * 1 Sam. xvii. 32. t It is highly probable that this was a general practicewith idolaters, who, supposing themselves secure of thefavour and protection of their deities, concluded that theirenemies must necessarily be the objects of their displea-•nre and vengeance. Hence, anticipating the certaintyof divine wrath upon them, they cursed and devoted themto destruction. So did the Philistines act towards David.And so the Romans used to do, saying,—Dii deaeque teperdant. B. { This mode of speaking and challenging was verycommon with the Orientals. Homer gives the same voL. I.—NOS. 17 & 18. art able to bear it; but give me leave to fightas thy servant, and as I myself desire." Ac­cordingly he laid by the armour, and takinghis staff with him, and putting five stones outof the brook into a shepherd's bag, andhaving a sling in his right hand, he wenttowards Goliath. But the adversary seeinghim come in such a manner, disdained him;and jested upon him, as if he had not suchweapons with him as are usual when oneman fights against another; but such as areused in driving away and avoiding of dogs;and said, "Dost thou take me not for a manbut a dog?" to which he replied, "No, notfor a doe; but for a creature worse than adog." This provoked Goliath to anger, whothereupon cursed him by the name of God;tand threatened to give his flesh to the beastsof the earth, and to the fowls of the air, to betorn to pieces by them. To whom Davidanswered, " Thou comest to me with a sword,and with a spear, and with a breast-plate;but I have God for my armour in comingagainst thee, who will destroy thee, and allthy army by my hands; for I will this daycut off thy head, and cast the other parts ofthy body to the dogs;J and all men shalllearn, that. God is the protector of the He­brews; and that our armour and our strengthis in his providence; and that without God'sassistance, all other warlike preparations andpower are useless." So the Philistine beingretarded by the weight of his armour, whenhe attempted to meet David in haste, cameon but slowly, as despising him, and dependedupon it, that he should slay him, who wasboth unarmed, and a child also, without anytrouble at all. But the youth met his antagonist, beingaccompanied with an invisible assistant, whowas no other than God himself. And takingone of the stones|| that he had out of the haughty air to his heroes, and it was doubtless a copy ofthe manners and hyperbolical speeches of the times.Thus he makes one say to another: Bold as thou art, too prodigal of breath,Approach, and enter the dark gates of death. II. vi. 177. B. I I The dexterity with which the sling may be used asan offensive weapon is surprising. It evidently appearsin the conflict between David and Goliath, and may beconfirmed by the following citation. "The arms whichthe Achaans chiefly used were slings. They were trained Tt