OCR Output NAZARETH. NEAPOLIS. 407 tary, and connected, by tradition, -with the tint ha­bitation of Noah, and the descent of the patriarchfrom the ark. (Comp. Joseph. Anliij. i. 35; St.Martin. J/rst. sur t Armenie, vuLi. p. 131: Hitler,Erdhmde, vol. z. p. 363 ; Cbesney, Exped. Euphrat.toL i. p. 145.) "f E. B. J.] NAZARETH (Nafaptf): Eth. Nafapijvrfj, Na-(wpdioi), a city of Galilee, celebrated in the NewTestament as the residence of our Lord for thirtyyears, before He commenced His public ministry(S. Mart, i. 9; S. Luke, iv. 16, 29), from whichcircumstance he was called a Nazarene. (S. Mark,L 2-4, xiv. 67; & Matt. xxvi. 71.) It was appa­rently in bad repute, even among the despised Gali­leans themselves. {S. John, i. 46.) It was visited byour Lord immediately on His entering on His ministry,when an attempt was made upon His life (S. Luke,iv. 16— 30); and He appears only to have visited itonce subsequently, again to exemplify the proverb,that "no prophet is accepted in his country."{S. Matt. xiit. 54—58; S. Mark, vi. 1—6.) Itssite is well described by Eusebius as over againstLcgio, 15 miles distant from it towards the E.,near to Mount Tabor. Its site has never been lostin Christian times, and in all ages travellers havemade mention of it. (Roland, Palaestina, pp. 905—907.) "* The town of Nazareth, called in ArabicEn-Nasirah, lies upon the western side of a narrowoblong basin, extending about from SSW. to NNE.,perhaps 20 minutes in length by 8 or 10 in breadth.The houses stand on the lower part of the slope ofthe western hill, which rises steep and high abovethem. Towards the N. the hills are less high; onthe E. and S. tbey are low. In the SE. the basincontracts, and a valley runs out narrow and windingto the great plain." The precipitous rocky wall ofthis valley is called the Mount of Precipitation. Thederation of the valley of Nazareth is given as 821Paris feet above the sea, and that of the mountainsabore Nazareth 1500 or 1600 feet; but Dr. Robin­son thinks this estimate too high. The houses ofthe town are well built of stone. The populationamounts to about 780 taxable males, of whom 170an Moslems; the remainder, Christians of variousdenominations. {Biblical lies. voL iii. pp. 183—185.) [G. W.] NAZIANZUS (Nofioffiij), a town in the south­west of Cappadocia, in the district called Gar-sauria, 24 miles to the south-east of Arcbe-laia. The place is not mentioned by the earlywriters, and owes its celebrity to the fact that it wasthe place where Gregory of Nazianzus was edu­cated, and where he afterwards became bishop.(Hierocl. p. 700; Socrat. Hist Eccles. iv. 11; Greg.Naz. Vita Corn. v. 25, Epist. 50; Cone Const,ii. p. 97; It. Ant. p. 144; It. Hieros. p. 577, whereit is tniswritten Nathiangus; comp.Diocak&arkia.)Hamilton {Researches, vol. ii. p. 228) is inclined tobelieve that the modern place called Euran Sheher,near Haval Dere, marks the site of Nazianzus,though others identify the village of Mimisu withit. [L. S.] NKAE (N«u), a small island near Lemnos, inwhich Pbikctetes, according to some authorities, wasbitten by a water-snake. (Steph. B. s. v.; comp.Antig. Caryst. Mirab. c 9.) Pliny places it be­tween Lemnos and the Hellespont (ii. 87. s. 89).It is called in the charts Stratia, and by themodem Greeks "A7101 o-rpanryof, the holy war­rior, that it, St. MichaeL (Walpole, Travels, cfc.p. 55.) NEAE PATRAE. [Hyfata.] NEAETHUS (Neufci, Strab.; N^oiOot,Theocr.; Nowufloj, Lycophr.), a river on the E.coast of Bruttium, falling into the gulf of Ta-rentum about 10 miles N. of Crotona, still calledthe Nieto or Neto. Strabo derives its name fromthe circumstance that it was here that the Trojanwomen who were conducted as captives by a Greekfleet, set fire to the ships of the victors, and thuscompelled them to settle in this part of Italy. (Strab.vi. p. 262; Plin. iii. 11. s. 15.) It is well known thatthe same legend is transferred by other writers tomany different localities, and appears to have beenone of those which gradually travelled along thecoast of Italy, in the same manner as the mythsrelating to Aeneas. The form of the name Navai0o>employed by Lycophron {Alex. 921) points evi­dently to the same fanciful derivation (from vainand aXSai). Theocritus alludes to the rich and va­ried herbage which grew on its banks {Id. iv. 24),and for which, according to a modern traveller, itis still remarkable. (Swinburne, Travels, vol. i. p.313.) [E. H. B.] NEANDREIA, NEA'NDRIUM, NEANDRUS(NedVopfia, NcavSpiov, NcwSpof: Eth. Niar&peitor N«(w5pi€us), a town in Troas, probably founded byAeolians; in the time of Strabo it had disappeared,its inhabitants, together with those of other neigh­bouring places, having removed to Alexandreia.(Strab. xiii. pp. 604, 606.) According to Scylax(p. 36) and Stephanus Byz. (». r.), Neandreia wasa maritime town on the Hellespont ; and Strabomight perhaps be suppesed to be mistaken inplacing it in the interior above Hamaxitus ; but heis so explicit in his description, marking its dis­tance from New Ilium at 130 stadia, that it isscarcely possible to conceive him to be in the wrong.Hence Leake {Asia Minor, p. 274), adopting himas his guide, seeks the site of Neandreia in thelower valley of the Scamander, near the modern townof Ene. [L. S.] NEANDRIA. [Nea.] NEANISSUS {Htavuro-6s or Nuwrii), a townin Armenia Minor, on the south-east of Pbreata, andbetween this latter town and Diocaesareia. (Ptol. v.6. § 14.) No further particulars are known aboutthe place. [L. S.] NEA'l'OLIS, i. e. " the New City." I. In Eu­rope. 1. (N«d»oA.ir: Eth. NfairoAmjy, Strab.and Steph. B.; but coins hare NeovoAfrns, Neapo-litanus: Napoli; in French and English Naples'),one of the most considerable cities of Campania,situated on the northern shore of the gulf called theCrater or Sinus Cumanus, which now derives fromit the name of Bay of Naples. All ancient writersagree in representing it as a Greek city, and acolony of the neighbouring Cumae; but the circum­stances of its foundation are very obscurely related.Scymnus Chi us tells us it was founded in pursuanceof an oracle; and Strabo calls it a Cumaean culony,but adds that it subsequently received an additionalbody of Chalcidic and Athenian colonists, with someof the settlers from the neighbouring islands of thePithccusae, and was on this account called Neapolis,or the New City. (Strab. v. p. 246; Scymn. Ch. 253;Veil. Pat. i. 4.) Its Chalcidic or Euboean origin isrepeatedly alluded to by Statius, who was himself anative of the city {Site. i. 2. 263, ii. 2. 94, iii. 5.12);but these expressions probably refer to its being acolony from the Chalcidic city of Cumae. The nameitself sufficiently points to the fact that it waa D 1> 4