OCR Output 694 RAVENNA. RAURACt residence: Ms example was followed by his suc­cessors; and from the year 404, when Honoring firstestablished himself there, to the close of the WesternEmpire, Ravenna continued to be the permanentimperial residence and the place from whence all thelaws and rescripts of the emperors were dated.(Jornand. Get. 29; Gibbon, c. 30.) Even beforethis period we are told that it WAD a very rich andpopulous city, as well as of trreat strength (Zosim. ii. 10): it was the capital of Picenum (as that namewas then used) and the residence of the Consularisor governor of that province. (Orel). Inter* 3649;Booking, ad Xvt. Digit, ii. pp. 359, 443.) But theestablishment of the imperial court there naturallyadded greatly to its prosperity and splendour, whileits inaccessible situation preserved it from the ca­lamities which at this iieriod laid waste so manycities of Italy. Yet Ravenna as a place of residencemust always have had great disadvantages. SidoniusApollinaris, who visited it late in the fifth century,complains especially of the want of fresh water, aswell as the inuddiness of the canals, the swarmsof gliata, and the eronking of frogs. (SidotL A poll.Kp. i. 5, 8.) Martial, at a much earlier period,also alludes to the scarcity of fresh water, whichlie jestingly asserts was so dear that a cistern wasa more valuable property than a vineyard. (Martial, iii. 56, 57.) After the fall of the Western Empire Ravennacontinued to bo the capital of the Gothic kings.Odoaeer, who had taken refuge there after repeateddefeats by The<jdoric, held out for near three years,but was at length compelled to surrender. (Jor­nand. Get.57; Cassiod. Ckron, p. C49.) Theodorichimself established his residence there, and his ex­ample was followed by his successors, until, in 539,Vitigcs was after a long siege compelled by famineto surrender the city to Relisarius. (Procop. B. (J.ii. 28 29.) It now became the residence of thegovernors who ruled a part of Italy in the name ofthe Byzantine emperors, with the title of exarchs,whence the whole of this province came to be knownas the Exarchate of Ravenna. The Byzantine go­vernors were in a state of f'reuuent hostility with theLombard kings, and were gradually stripped of alarge portion of their dominions; but Ravenna itselfdrtied their arms for more than two centuries. Itwas besieged by Liutprand about 750, and its im­portant suburb of Classis totally destroyed (P. l)iac.vi. 49); but it was not till the reipn of his suc­cessor Astolphos that Ravenna itself fell into thehands of the Lombards. Rut the exact date, aswell as the circumstances of its final conquest, areuncertain. (Gibbon, c. 49.) The situation of Ravenna at the present daypresents DO resemblance to that described by ancientwriters. Vet there is no doubt that the moderncity occupies the same site with the ancient one,and that the chanpe is wholly due to naturalcauses. The accumulation of alluvial deposits,brought down by the rivers and driven back by thewaves and titles, has pradually filled up the (agonalthat surrounded and canals that intersected the city;and the modern Bavenua stands in a fiat and fertileplain, at a distance of 4 miles from the sea, fromwhich it is separated by a broad sandy tract, coveredin preat part with a beautiful forest of stone pines.Though Ravenna is one of the most interestinpplaces in Italy for its mediaeval and early Christianantiquities, it presents few remains of the Romanjiciiod, and those for the most part belong to the declining years of the Empire. AtriMuiiai iniknown by the name of Porta Aurea, wseAstrejejin 1586: it stood near the modern ;» aidPorta Adrtann. Several of the indent buialdate from the Roman period; as does aU.- it* tffs)chraJ chapel containing the tomb of Gala llsflthe sister of Honorius, and mother of Yji r.LcaiBA portion of the palace of Theodoric:in its original state, and the niaosol*monarch, just without the walls, is anremarkable character, though stripped of iti tornaments. An ancient basilica, still aDsi \ApoUinare in Cfassc about 3 miles frost 1southern gate of the city, preserves the nmarks the site of the ancient port and iClassis; while another basilica, whirsdown to the year 1553, bore the name of S.1in Ctxarea; and thus indicated the sits Himportant suburb. It stood about a qaarw Imile from the south pale of the city. bet*-«lwalls and the bridge now called ftafc iThis bridge crosses the united streams of tiand Montone, two small rivers which \held separate courses to the sea, bat *into one and confined within an artinaal iby Clement XII. in 1736. The /frwco, ithe southernmost of the two, is probably twith the Redcsis of Pliny; indeed Claws'that it was in his time still called Beam*the Montont must be identified with tailthe same author. The Anemo, vhka st|next in order, is clearly the same now iAmone or Lamotie, which Hows under the *(Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Cluver. /t*i| The natural causes which have prod achanges in the situation and environs of 1were undoubtedly in operation from so ea"Already in the fifth century the original f<s^st rue ted by Augustus was completely filial s|occupied by orchards. (Jornand. Gd. IRavenna at that period liad still a muchport, where the fleets of lieliaarins ■could rule at anchor. The port of Causnow separated from the sea by a strip ofmarshy plain about 2 miles broad, tlpart of which is occupied by a fatalpines, which extends for many milescoast both to the S. and N. v£ Raexistence of this remarkable strip oftested as early as the fifth century, thePineta being already found in Jomandsa,us that Theodoric encamped there wfcsieged Odoaeer in Ravenna. (Jomaad.it is probable that it has extended itsand shifted itsgained upon the The territory of Ravenna was alwayscept the sandy strip adjoining the sea, amabundance of wine of pood quality, batmarked that the vines quickly decayed,p. 214; Plin. xiv. 2. s. 4.) Its gardes*noticed by Pliny as growing the finestwhile the adjoining sea was noted forleuce of its turbot. (Plin, ix. 54. a.19.) [E. RAV1US ('Paoiiios, Ptol. ii. S. § *the \V. cuast of Hibernia, according to1385) the Trobis. Others idtnofrQw&mrm. KAUKACI, or RAURICIIUurici ..; ;. .ii- • in rtolenij (ii. 9. §