OCR Output B. Vftl. THE PELOPOfrNESIAN WAR. 367 much altered for the better. But, taking with him tenfail of Peloponnesiansand ten oFChians, he putteth rbsea; ahd, having made an attempt upon Pceleu'm,though without success, he crossed over to Clazomenæ.He there summoned such of the inhabitants as were at­tached to the Athenians to remove with their effects upto Daphhu's, and leave him in possession of the place;Tamus, farther, the sub-governor of Ionia, joined withhim in the summons. But, when the inhabitants re­jected this offer, he made an assault upon the city,which had no fortifications; yet, miscarrying in the at­tempt, he put off again to sea in a hard gale of wind,and reached, With those ships that kept up with him, toPhocea and Cyme; but the rest of the squadron wasby stress of weather forced over to the isles which lienear to Clazomenæ,—— Marathusa, and Pele, and Dri-mussa and, whatever effects belonging to the Clazo-menians had by way of security been deposited there,during eight days continuance, which the stormy wea­ther obliged them to stay, they partly plundered andpartly destroyed; and, having secured their booty on­board, got away to Phocea and Cyme, and joined As-tyochus. But,' whilst he was yet in this station, embas­sadors reach him from the Lesbians, imparting to himtheir desires to revolt. Him, indeed, they persuade;tuit, when the Corinthians and the rest of the consede­rates declared their repugnance, because -of the formermiscarriage, he weighed from thence and made sail forGhifos. And now, a storm dispersing his squadron, aclast they all come in, though from different quarters towhich they had been driven, and rejoin him at Chios. The next step to this was the junction of Pædaritus;who, being now at Erythræ, after marching by landfrom Miletus, passed over in person with the troops un­der his command to Chios. He had also with him a-botit site hundred soldiers, taken out of the five shipsunder Chalcideus, who had been left behind with theirarms. X Z But