OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 221 Drusus was, like his father, of strictly conservative views,and had already given practical proof that such were hissentiments in the insurrection of Saturninus. He belongedto the circle of the highest nobility, and was the possessorof a colossal fortune; in disposition too he was a genuinearistocrat—a man emphatically proud, who scorned to bedeckhimself with the insignia of his offices, but declared on hisdeath-beo. that there would not soon arise a citizen like him;a man with whom the beautiful saying, that nobility consti­tutes obligation, was and continued to be the rule of his life.With all the vehement earnestness of his temperament hehad turned away from the frivolity and venality that markedthe nobles of the common stamp; trustworthy and strict inmorals, he was respected rather thau properly beloved onthe part of the common people, to whom his door and hispurse were always open, and notwithstanding his youth, hewas through the personal dignity of his character a man ofweight in the senate as in the Forum. Nor did he standalone. Marcus Scaurus had the courage on occasion of hisdefence in his trial for extortion publicly to summon Drususto undertake a reform of the judicial arrangements; he andthe famous orator, Lucius Crassus, were in the senate themost zealous champions of his proposals, and were perhapsassociated with him in originating them. But the mass ofthe governing aristocracy was by no means of the same mindwith Drusus, Scaurus, and Crassus. There were not want­ing in the senate decided adherents of the capitalist party,among whom in particular there made themselves conspicuousthe consul of the day, Lucius Marcius Philippus, who main­tained the cause of the equestrian order as he had formerlymaintained that of the democracy (P. 138) with zeal andprudence, and the daring and reckless Quintus Caepio, whowas induced to this opposition primarily by his personalhostility to Drusus and Scaurus. More dangerous, how­ever, than these decided opponents was the cowardly andcorrupt mass of the aristocracy, who no doubt would havepreferred to plunder the provinces alone, but in the end hadnot much objection to share the spoil with the equites, and,instead of taking in hand the grave and perilous struggleagainst the haughty capitalists, reckoned it far more equita­ble and easy to purchase impunity at their hands by fair wordsand by an occasional prostration or even by a round sum.The result alone could show how far success would attend