OCR Output 264 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIH. were successively intercepted by the armed vessels sta-'"', tioned by Totila in the bay of Naples. The principalofficer of the Romans was dragged, with a rope roundhis neck, to the foot of the wall, from whence, with atrembling voice, he exhorted the citizens to implore, likehimself, the mercy of the conqueror. They requesteda truce, with a promise of surrendering the city, if no ef­fectual relief should appear at the end of thirty days. In­stead of one month, the audacious barbarian grantedtiiem three, in the just confidence that famine would an­ticipate the term of their capitulation. After the re­duction of Naples and Cumae, the provinces of Lucania,Apulia, and Calabria, submitted to the king of theGoths. Totila led his army to the gates of Rome,pitched his camp at Tibur, or Tivoli, within twentymiles of the capital, and calmly exhorted the senate andpeople to compare the tyranny of the Greeks with theblessings of the Gothic reign.Contrast of The rapid success of Totila may be partly ascribed to»!rtue"d *ne revolution which three years' experience had pro­duced in the sentiments of the Italians. At the command,or at least in the name, of a Catholic emperor, the pope,gtheir spiritual father, had been torn from the Romanchurch, and either starved or murdered on a desolateisland.*1 The virtues of Belisarius were replaced by thevarious or uniform vices of eleven chiefs, at Rome, Ra­venna, Florence, Perugia, Spoleto, &c. who abused theirauthority for the indulgence of lust or avarice. Theimprovement of the revenue was committed to Aiexan-der, a subtle scribe, long practised in the fraud and op­pression of the Byzantine schools; and whose name ofPsalliction, the scissors,' was drawn from the dexterous K Sylrerins, hishop of Rome, was first transported to Patara, in Lycia, and atlength starred (sub eorum custodia inedia confeotas) in the isle of Palmaria, A. D.538, June 20. (Liberat. in Breviar. c. 22. Anastasius in Sylverio. Baronius, A. D.540. no. 2, 3. Pagi in Vit. Pont. tom. 1. p. 285, 286.) Procopius (Anecdut. o. 1.)accuses only the empress and Antonina. b Palmaria, a small island, opposite to Tarracina and the coast of the Volsci. (Clu-ver. rtal. Antiq. lib. 3. c. 7. p. 1014.) 'As the Logothete Alexander, and most of his civil and military colleagues, were