OCR Output OF ROME. merly put into their hands. During this year alfo B O O Kthere was a triumph at Rome. •, ^' _f Y.R. 15i. XVII. THE fucceeding confuls, Opiter Virginius B. C. s°°.and Spurius Caffius, attacked Pometia,at firft by ftorm,afterwards by regular approaches*. The Auruncians,actuated rather by implacable hatred, than by anyhope of fuccefs, and without waiting for a favourableopportunity, refolved to make an attack on them;and, fallying out, greater numbers of them armedwith fire, than with fwords, they filled every place with(laughter and conflagration; and, befides burning themachines, and killing and wounding great numbersof their enemies, were very near killing one of theconfuls, which of them, writers do not inform us,who was grievoufly wounded, and thrown from hishorfe. The troops, thus foiled in their enterprize,returned to Rome, leaving the conful, whofe reco­very was doubtful, together with a great number of*wounded. After a fhort interval, juft fufficient forthe curing of their wounds, and recruiting the army, * Orig. V"t, JtinJe vir.eis, aliifyai eperitut. The great difficultyof IT.!;:!!.in,:n confifti in the impuflibility of finding con'efpondingterms. The modern art of war differs, fo entirely, from the ancient,owing to the various improvements that have been introduced into thatiltiti uctue fcicnce, during a period or more than two thoufaml year*,and principally to the invention of gunpowder, that the ancient modesof attack and defence, as well ai the various military machines, arepot only now dilufecl, but even no equivalent terms can, in any ofthe modern languages, be found for them. Thus, in the above paf.Cage, wherein the tranflator has taken the liberty, rather of defcribingthe operation, than tranfhting the original, the word miua occurs:this, as Vegetius informs us, was a machine conftructed of timbers,ftrongly framed together, mounted on wheeU and coveied with hurdles,over which was put a quantity of earth; the aflailants, thus protectedagainlt the miflile weapons of the enemy, moved forward th* machine;and, under cover of it, endeavoured to beat down, or undermine, thewalls. The tranflator here begs leave, once for all, to obfervt, thathe will often take the liberty, he has done in this place, of droppingterms, which cannot be translated; and which, if left untranflated inthe text, could convey no idea whatever to the Englifh reader ; endea.vouring however, he hopes not unfuccefsfiilly, by a (hurt defcription, orilight circumlocution, to make his author's meaning fufficiently in­telligible. K. 4 • they