OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tine. The ideas of inheritance and succession are so very familiar,that the generality of mankind consider them as founded, not only inreason, but in nature itself. Our imagination readily transfers the fameprinciples from private property to public dominion : and whenever avirtuous father leaves behind him a son whose merit seems to justifythe esteem, or even the hopes, of the people, the joint influence ofprejudice and of affection operates with irresistible weight. Theflower of the western armies had followed Constantius into Britain,,and the national troops were reinforced by a numerous body ofAlemanni, who obeyed the orders of Crocus, one of their hereditarychieftains IS. The opinion of their own importance, and the as­surance that Britain, Gaul, and Spain would acquiesce in their no­mination, were diligently inculcated to the legions by the adherentsof Constantine. The soldiers were asked, Whether they could hesi­tate a moment between the honour of placing at their head theworthy son of their beloved emperor, and the ignominy of tamelyexpecting the arrival of some obscure stranger on whom it mightplease the sovereign of Asia to bestow the armies and provinces ofthe West. It was insinuated to them, that gratitude and liberalityheld a distinguished place among the virtues of Constantine; nordid that artful prince shew himself to the troops, till they wereprepared to salute him with the names of Augustus and Emperor.The throne was the object of his desires; and had he been less ac­tuated by ambition, it was his only means of safety. He was wellacquainted with the character and sentiments of Galerius, and suffi­ciently apprized, that if he wished to live he must determine toreign. The decent and even obstinate resistance which he chose toaffect l6, was contrived to justify his usurpation; nor did he yieldto the acclamations of the army, till he had provided the propermaterials for a letter, which he immediately dispatched to the em­peror of the East. Constantine informed him of the melancholyevent of his father's death, modestly asserted his natural claim to the