OCR Output 116 LAGUSA. LAKMA. LAE'LIA (AaiAia, Ptol. ii. 4. § 12: Aracwaor El /Jcff -ntl). an inland city of tin- T unlet aui, inthe W. of Hispania Baetica, not far from Italica, isone of the Spanish cities of which wo have severalcoins, belonging to the period of its independence, aswell as to the early Roman empire. Their types are,an armed hor.>eman, at full speed, with ears of corn,houghs, ami palm-trees. (Horez, E&p. ^- vol. xii.pp. 256—258: Mtd. vol. ii. p. 4Mi. vol. iii. p. 92;Mionuet, vol. i. p. 19, Suppl. vol. i. p. iio ; Scstini,Med, pp. 20. G5 ; Num. Goth.; Eckhtl, vol. i. p. 25;VUv, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 373.) [P. S] LAEPA {fspe, near Ayamtmte), a city of theTurdrtani, on the coast of liaetiea, a little E. of themouth of the Anas (Guatluhpiivir: Mela, iii. 1;com p. Plin. iii. 1. s. 3, where, however, the rendingis doubtful; fl<ll. Alex. 57, where Lnepam shouldprobably lie substituted for the MS. readings ofLtptim or Leptmri; Florez, Esp. S. vol. x. p. 45,vol. xti. pp. 56, 57; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 339.This place must not be confounded with Ptolemy'sLaki'A, which is only a various reading forIlipa). [P. S.] LAERON FL. [Gallakcia.] LAESTKY'GONES (AanrrpvySv*s), a fabulouspeople of giants, who are mentioned by Ilumer inthe Odyssey (x. 80—132), and described as governedby a king named Lamus. They were a pastoralpeople, but had a city (&rn/) which Homer callsAaiffTpuyovtri, with a port, and a fountain named Ar-tacia. It may well be doubted whether Homer meantto assign any definite locality to this people, anymore than to the Cyclopes; but later Greek writersdid not foil to fix the place of their abode, thoughopinions were much divided on the subject. Thegeneral tradition, as we learn from Thucydidcs (vi.2), placed them in Sicily, though that historianwisely declares his total ignorance of everythingconcerning them. Other writers were lewj cautious;some fixed their abodes in the W. or N\V. part of theisland, in the country subsequently occupied by theElymi (Lycophr. Alex. 956); but the more pre­valent opinion, at least in later times, seems to havebeen that they dwelt in the neighbourhood of Lcon-tini, whence the name of Laestrygosii Campi wasgiven to the fertile plain in the neighbourhood ofthat city. (Strab. i. p. 20; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Tzetz.adLycophr. 662,956; Sil. Ital. xiv. 126.) A whollydifferent tradition, with the origin of which we areunacquainted, but which is very generally adoptedby Roman writers, represented Fomiiae on the coastof Italy as the abode of the Laestrygones, ami thecity of their king Lamus. The noble family of theLamiae, in the days of Augustus, even pretended toderive their descent from the mythical king of theLaestrygones. (Cic. ad Att. ii. 13; Hor. Carm. iii.17: Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Sil. Ital. vii. 410.) [E.H.B.] LAEV1 or LAI (A<£oi), a tribe of Cisalpine Gauls,who dwelt near the sources of the river Padus. Thisis the statement of Polybius (ii. 17), who associatesthem with the Libicii (A*£*Kio<). and says that thetwo tribes occupied the part of the plains of Cis­alpine Gaul nearest to the sources of the Padus, andnext to them came the Insubres. lie distinctlyreckons them among the Gaulish tribes who hadcrossed the Alps and settled in the plains of NorthernItaly: on the other hand, both I.ivy and Pliny callthem Ligurians. (Liv. v. 35; Plin. iii. 17. s. 21.)The reading in the passage of I.ivy is, indeed, veryuncertain; but he would appear t<» agree with Plinyin placing them in the neighbourhood of Ticiimm. Pliny even ascribes the foundation of that city tothe Laevi, in conjunction with the llarici, a nameotherwise wholly unknown, but apparently aImj aLigurian tribe. '1 here can be no doubt that inthis part of Italy tribes of Gaulish and Lipurianorigin were very much intermixed, and probably thelatter were iu many cases confounded with tti«Gauls. [Lioi'RtA.] LAGANIA (Aaryav'ta), a village of the Tecto-sagae in Galatia, 24 miles to the east of JaliopoUs.It is not mentioned by any of the classical wntfr*.but it must afterwards have increased in inip''rian<T.for during the Christian period, it was the see <*' tbi:diop, and took the name of Ana--tasiopolis (tWi7.Chnic. p. 662, and p. 95, where the name is mis­spelt Aucrcuviot; Jtin. Ant. p. 142, where the aaomis Latjmuos; It, I/fcros. p. 574, where we readAgannia). There is little doubt that the hakaaain Ptolemy (v. 1. § 14) and the Kheganagalia erfHierocles (p. 697) are the same as Lagania (comj^Thcod. Sye. c. 2). ICiepert, in his map of AsiaMinor, identifies it with Big Basar. [L. Sv] LAGA'KIA (Aayapta; V.th. Aayaptraids, Laga-rinus), a small t)wn of Lucania, situated betweenThurii and the river Sybaris; which, according tothe commonly received legend, was founded by icolony of Phoeians under the command of Epeia*,the architect of the wooden hor.se, (Strab. vi. p. 263;Lycophr. Alex. 930; Tzetz. ad loc.) Strabo. theonly geographical writer who mentions it. calls itonly a fortress (<t>povpioi>). and it was probably nereia place of any importance; though deriving somecelebrity in after times from the excellence of hawine, which was esteemed one of the bo-t in Italy.(Strab. I. c; Plin. xiv. G. s. 8.) The statement clStrabo, above quoted, is the only cine to its potdt:"n,which cannot therefore be determined with anycertainty. Cluverius placed it at A'ocara, aboal10 miles from the sea, and this conjecture (for it anothing more) has been adopted by RomaneHi. Tb<wines of this neighbourhood are said stiil to prefer titheir ancient reputation. (Cluver. ItaL p. 1272Komanelli, vol. i. p. 24S.) [E. H. B.] LAGECUM. [Legeolium.] LAGINA (to Adyaa). a place in the terriltrof Stratoniccia, in Caria, contained a most spJeruiutemple of Hecate, at which every year great festivalwere celebrated. (Strab. xiv. p. 660.) Tacitc{Ann, iii. (12), when speaking of the worship <Trivia among the Stratoniceians, evidently v.w^'Hecate. The name of Lagina is still preserve*! ithe village of Laktna, not far from the sources ithe Tshina. Laginia, mentioned by Steph. B. asttoK'ixvlov Kaot'as, seems to be the same as tlLagina of Strabo. [L. S.} LAGN1 (Acryfi), a town of the Are-vacae.Hispania Tarraconensis. mentioned only by Di xl tSiculus (Excerpt, vol. ii. p. 596). [P. S-] LAGOS, a town in Phrygia, on the norih-ea>*.Mandropolis. (Liv. xxxviii. 15.) The town is n>«tioned only by Livy in his account of the pr>?re«»athe Roman consul On. Manlius in Asia Minor, *\Lagos was found deserted by its inhabitant*, Iwell provided with stores of every description, *bflwe may infer that it was a town of some conquence. [L. 6-] LAGU'SA (Aayovffa, Aayoutrtra), an island toAegaean sea, the name of which occurs in Sirbetween those, of Sicinus and Pholegandra. Heit is probably the same as Knri:'iotisAQt & ro.islet between the two latter inlands. Uat Kiev