OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. and their discipline confirmed. There appeared the same differencebetween the leaders as between the .armies. Caprice or flattery hadtempted Maxentius with the hopes of conquest: but these aspiringhopes soon gave way to the habits of pleasure and the consciousness ofhis inexperience. The intrepid mind of Constantine had been trainedfrom his earliest youth to war, to action, and to military command. When Hannibal marched from Gaul into Italy, he was obliged,first, to discover, and then to open, a way over mountains and Constantine 'passes the through savage nations that had never yielded a passage to a regular Alps,army The Alps were then guarded by nature, they are now forti­fied by art. Citadels constructed with no less skill than labour andexpence, command every avenue into the plain, and on that siderender Italy almost inaccessible to the enemies of the king of Sar­dinia 54. But in the course of the intermediate period, the generalsrwho have attempted the paflage, have seldom experienced any dif­ficulty or resistance. In the age of Constantine, the peasants ofthe mountains were civilized and obedient subjects; the country-was plentifully stocked with provisions, and the stupendous high­ways which the Romans had carried over the Alps, opened severalcommunications between Gaul and Italy ,!. Constantine preferredthe road of the Cottian Alps, or as it is now called, of MountCenis, and led his troops with such active diligence, that he de­scended into the plain of Piedmont before the court of Maxentiushad received any certain intelligence of his departure from thebanks of the Rhine. The city of Susa, however, which is situatedat the foot of Mount Cents, was surrounded with walls, and pro­vided with a garrison sufficiently numerous to check the progress ofan invader; but the impatience of Constantine's troops disdainedthe tedious forms of a siege. The fame day that they appeared be­fore Susa, they applied fire to the gates, and ladders to the walls jand mounting to the assault amidst a shower of stones and arrows^they entered the place sword in hand> and cut in pieces the greatest