OCR Output Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 373 Jeep valley; and at the south side he laid rocks together, andbound them one to another with lead, and included some of theinner parts, till it proceeded to a great height, and till both thelargeness of the square edifice, and its altitude, were immense,and till the vastness of the stones in the front were plainly visi足ble on the outside, yet so that the inward parts were fastened to足gether with iron, and preserved the joints immoveable for allfuture times. When this work [for the foundation] was donein this manner, and joined together as part of the hill itself tothe very top of it, he wrought it all into one outward surface,and filled up the hollow places which were about the wall, andmade it a level on the external upper surface, and a smooth levelalso. This hill was walled all round, and in compass fourfurlongs, [the distance of] each angle containing in length a fur足long: but within this wall, and on the very top of all, there rananother wall of stone also, having, on the east quarter, a doublecloister, of the same length with the wall; in the midst of whichwas the temple itself. This cloister looked to the gates of thetemple; and it had been adorned by many kings in former times:And round about the entire temple were fixed the spoils takenfrom barbarous nations; all these had been dedicated to thetemple by Herod, with the addition of those he had taken fromthe Arabians. 4. Now on the north side [of the temple] was built a citadel,whose walls were square, and strong, and of extraordinaryfirmness. This citadel was built by the kings of the Asamo-nean race, who were also high priests before Herod, and theycalled it the Tower, in which were reposited the vestments ofthe high priest, which the high priest only put on at the timewhen he was to offer sacrifice. These vestments king Herodkept in that place, and after his death they were under thepower of the Romans, until the time of Tiberius Caesar; underwhose reign Vitellius, the president of Syria, when he onceCame to Jerusalem, and had been most magnificently received bythe multitude, he had a mind to make them some requital forthe kindness they had showed him, so, upon their petition tohave those holy vestments in their own power, he wrote aboutthem to Tiberius Caesar, who granted his request; and this theirpower over the sacerdotal vestments continued with the Jewstill the death of king Agrippa; but after that, Cassius Longi-nus, who was president of Syria, and Cuspius Fadus, who wasprocurator of Judea, enjoined the Jews to reposit those vest足ments in the Tower of Antonia, for that they ought to have themin their power, as they formerly had. However, the Jews sentambassadors to Claudius Caesar, to intercede with him for them,.upon whose coming, king Agrippa, jun. being then at Romer