OCR Output WARS OF THE JEWS. Book !. CHAP. XV. Antigonus besieges tlose that -were in Masada, ivhom Herod fretsfrom confinement, when he came back from Rome, and present­ly marches to "Jerusalem, where he findt Silo corrupted bybribes. $ 1. T^T'OW during this time Antigonus besieged those thatJ,N were in Masada, who had all other necessaries in suffi­cient quantity, but were in want of water ; on which accountJoseph, Herod's brother, was disposed to run away to the Ara­bians, with two hundred of his own friends, because he hadheard that Malichus repented of his offences with regard toHerod ; and he had been so quick as to have been gone out of thefortress already, unless, on that very night when he was goingaway, there had fallen a great deal of rain, insomuch that his re­servoirs were full of water, and so he was under no necessity ofrunning away. After which, therefore, they made an irruptionupon Antigonus's party, and slew a great many of them, somein open battles, and some in private ambush; nor had they al­ways success in their attempts, for sometimes they were beatenand ran away. 2. In the mean time Ventidius, the Roman general, was sentout of Syria, to restrain the incursions of the^Parthians, and afterhe had done that, he came into Judea, in pretence indeed to assistJoseph and his party, but in reality to get money of Antigonusjand when he had pitched his camp very near to Jerusalem, assoon as he had got money enough, he went away with the great-estpart of his forces; yet still did he leave Silo with some partof them, lest if he had taken them all away, his taking of bribesmight have been too openly discovered. Now Antigonus hopedthat the Parthians would come again to his assistance, and there- O * fore cultivated a good understanding with Silo in the mean time,lest any interruption should be given to his hopes. 3. Now by this time Herod had sailed out of Italy, and wascome to Ptolemais : and as soon as he had gotten together nosmall army of foreigners, and of his own countrymen, he march­ed through Galilee against Antigonus, wherein he was assisted byVentidius andSilo7bothwbom*Dtllius, a person sent by Antony,persuaded to bring Herod [into his kingdom]. Now Ventidiuswas at tills time among the cities, and composing the disturban­ces which had happened by means ot the Parthians, as was Siloin Judea corrupted by the bribes that Antigonus had given him;yet was not Herod himself destitute of power, but the number of his « This Dellius U famors, or rather infamous, in the history of Mark AMony..ai Spanheim and Aldrich here note, from the coins from Plutarch and Die.