OCR Output 2+2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. making war against the Parthians, and as he was fighting cour­ageously, he tell, while Demetrius and Philip governed Syria,as hath been elsewhere related. 5. As to Alexander, his own people were seditious againsthim; for at a festival which was then celebrated, when he stoodupon the altar, and was going to sacrifice, the nation rose uponhim, and pelted him with citrons, [which they then had in theirhands,] because the law of the Jews required, that at the feastof tabernacles every one should have branches of the palm-treeand citron-tree: which thing we have elsewhere related. Theyalso reviled him, as * derived from a captive, and so unworthyof his dignity, and of sacrificing. At this he was in a rage,and slew of them about six thousand. He also built a parti­tion wall of wood round the altar and the temple, as far asthat partition within which it was only lawful for the prieststo enter, and by this means he obstructed the multitude fromcoming at him. He also maintained foreigners of Pisidiae andCilicia, for as to the Syrians, he was at war with them, and somade no use of them. He also overcame the Arabians, such asthe Moabites, and Gileadites, and made them bring tribute.Moreover, he demolished Amathus, while f Theodorus durstnot fight with him; but as he had joined battle with Obedas, kingof the Arabians, and fell into an ambush in the places thatwere rugged and difficult to be travelled over, he was throwndown into a deep valley, by the multitude of the camels at Ga-dara, a village of Gilead, and hardly escaped with his life.From thence he fled to Jerusalem, where, besides his other illsuccess, the nation insulted him, and he fought against themfor six years, and slew no fewer than fifty thousand of them.And when he desired that they would desist from their ill-willto him, they hated him so much the more, on account of whathad already happened; and when he had asked them what heought to do; they all cried out, that "he ought to kill himself."They also sent to Demetrius Eucerus, and desired him to makea league of mutual defence with them. says, that this Antiochus Pius did rot die in this battle, but running away, wasdrowned in the river Orontes. Appian says that he was deprived of the kingdom ofSyria by Tigraties; but Porphyry makes this Loadice, Queen of the Calamans—Allwhich is noted by Spanheim. In such confusion of the latter historians, we have noreason to prefer any of them before Josephus, who had more original ones beforehim. » * This reproach upon Alexander, that he was sprung from a captive, seemsonly the repetition of the old Pharisaical calumny upon his father, chap. x.sect. v. f This Theodorus was the son of Zeno, and was in possession of Amathus, as welearn from sect 3. foregoing.