OCR Output AN. 35.] 541 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. very pleasant with the young man, and drewhim into a lonely place; and at the same timeplayed with him in a juvenile and ludicrousmanner. Now the nature of that place washotter than ordinary: so they went out in abody, and of a sudden, and in a vein of mad­ness; and as they stood by the fish ponds, ofwhich there were large ones about the house,they went to cool themselves by bathing, be­cause it was in the midst of a sultry day. Atfirst they were only spectators of Herod's ser­vants and acquaintance, as they were swim­ming. But after a while, the young man, atthe instigation of Herod, went into the wateramong them: while such of Herod's acquaint­ance, as he had appointed to do it, dippedhim, as he was swimming, and plunged himunder water, in the dark of the evening: asif it had been done in sport only. Nor didthey desist till he was entirely suffocated.And thus was Aristobulus murdered. Hav­ing lived no more than *eighteen years; andkept the high-priesthood one year only.Which high-priesthood Ananelus now reco­vered again. When this j>ad accident was related, the joyof Mis' women was soon changed to lamenta­tion, at the sight of the dead body that laybefore them; and their sorrow was immode­rate. The city of Jerusalem also, upon thespreading of this news, were in very greatgrief: every family looking on this calamityas if it had not belonged to another, but thatone of themselves was slain. But Alexandrawas more deeply affected; upon her know­ledge that he had been wilfully destroyed.But she was under a necessity of bearing upunder it; out of her prospect of a greatermischief that might otherwise follow. Andshe oftentimes came to an inclination to killherself with her own hands. But still she re­strained herself; in hopes she might live longenough to revenge the unjust murder thusprivately committed. Nay she farther re­solved to endeavour to live longer, and togive no occasion to think she suspected thather son was slain on purpose; and supposedthat she might be in a capacity of revenging it, at a proper opportunity. However, Herodendeavoured that none abroad should believethat the child's death was caused by any de­sign of his. And for this purpose he exhibit­ed not only the ordinary signs of sorrow, buteven burst into tears, and seemed to evincea real confusion of soul. And perhaps hisaffections were overcome on this occasion,when he saw the child's countenance soyoung, and so beautiful: although his deathwere supposed to tend to his own security.So far at least this grief served, as to makesome apology for him. He also took carethat his funeral should be very magnificent,by making great preparation of a sepulchre tolay his body in; and providing a great quan­tity of spices; and burying many ornamentstogether with him: till the very women, whowere in such deep sorrow, were astonishedat it; and received in this way some conso­lation. None of these things, however, couldovercome Alexandra's grief; but the remem­brance of this miserable case made her sor­row both deep and obstinate. Accordinglyshe wrote an account of this treacherousscene to Cleopatra; and informed her bywhat means her son had been murdered.Cleopatra, as she had formerly been desi­rous to give her what satisfaction she could,and commiserating Alexandra's fortunes,made the case her own; and excited An­tony to punish the child's murder. For thatit was an unworthy thing that Herod, whohad been by him made king of a country thatno way belonged to him, should be guilty ofsuch horrid crimes against those that were ofthe royal blood. Antony was persuaded bythese arguments. And when he came toLaodicea, the sent and commanded Herodto come and make his defence, as to whathe had done to Aristobulus; for that such atreacherous design was not well done, if hehad any hand in it. Herod was now in fear,both of the accusation, and of Cleopatra's illwill to him: which was such, that she wasever endeavouring to make Antony hate him.He therefore determined to obey his sum-place before us. In the first book Of the War, chap. 22,he is said to be seventeen when he was made high-priest,and soon after murdered. * The reading of one of Josephus's Greek MSS. and ofZonaras, seems here to be right; that Aristobulus wasnot eighteen years old when he was drowned. For hewas not seventeen when he was made high-priest, chap.2, and he continued in that office but one year, as in the t An. 34. 4P2