OCR Output CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 475 « charge of the Sybilline books, should be consulted• about the proper mode of purification. That by publicauthority, a league of hospitality should be made withthe people of Caere *, who had given a safe retreat tothe Roman priests and sacred things, and by whosefavour, the worship of the immortal gods had sufferedno interruption. That the Capitoline games should becelebrated in honour of Jupiter, the best and greatest,who in all the misfortunes that had happened, had pre­served his august abode, and the citadel of Rome ; andthat the dictator Camiltus should constitute a college ofpersons, chosen from among the inhabitants of the ca-pitol and citadel, to superintend that affair.'It was also moved, that expiation should likewise bemade for the neglect of the miraculous voice heard inthe night, which gave warning of the impending calami­ty, before any war with the Gauis was thought of, and atemple ordered to be erected to Aius Locutius-^, in theNew Street. It was likewise ordered, that the 'gold,which had been rescued from the Gauls, and that whichin their greatest danger had been taken out of the othertemples, and conveyed to the chapel of Jupiter, shouldbe deemed sacred, and deposited at his shrine, becausein their confusion, they could not recollect the places towhich it ought to be returned. The religion of the Romans had before been conspi­cuous, in the behaviour of the ladies, when the publicwas at a loss to make up the stipulated ransom to theGauls, in supplying that deficiency, that the sacred trea­sure might not be touched; for which act of generosity,they had thanks returned them, and moreover the ho­nour decreed them, of having funeral orations pronouncedover them after their death, as well as the men. Afterthe duties of religion, and such things as could be trans­acted by means of the senate, had been performed, thetribunes began, in their daily harangues, to resume the.old .plea, and urge the people to abandon Rome in ruins,and remove to Veii, a city ready built and furnished,when Camillas appeared in the assembly of the people,attended by the whole body of the senate, and spoke tothe following effect. # Hence, Cxremonia, from Ccere and Mantre.f 1 be speaking god.