OCR Output CHAP. 24. ROMAN HISTORY. 139 rest from making their appearance, either in the senate-house, or forum. The thmness of the house preventedthem from entering upon business. This circumstancewas only considered by,the mob, as an evasion to gaintime. They exclaimed, that the senators had absentedthemselves not from fear, nor any accidental cause, butfrom design to elude their demand. That the consulsthemselves only trifled with them, and it was too evidentrthat they only insulted their miseries. To so great a height did the ?edition rise, that therespect due to consular authority, could hardly restrainthe violence of the mutineers. At tength, however, thefathers, persuaded that it would be full as dangerous tostay at home, as to appear, came to the senate-house:but though by this time the house was full, the memberswere far from being unanimous; nay, the consuls them­selves were divided in their sentiments. Appius, a manof a violent temper, was of opinion, that this insurrec­tion should be suppressed by the authority of the con­suls; and that if one or two of them were seized, therest would be quiet of course. Serviiius, who was moremoderate, gave it as his opinion, that whilst the peoplewere in this ferment, it would not oniy be easier, but amuch safer measure, to bend, than to break them. Butamidst these debates and deliberations, something stiltmore alarming occurred. CHAP. XXIV. War with the Volsci. V^OURIERS came post from Latium, with the disa­greeable advice that the Volsci had taken the field witha numerous army, and were in full march to lay siegeto the city; which intelligence, so much had those in­testine broils divided the city, produced very differenteffects in the senate, and among the people. The po­pulace exulted with joy, crying out that the gods werecoming to avenge the pride of the fathers. They ex­horted each other, not to give in their names for the war;if they must go to perdition, let it be in company withill the orders of the state, and not by themselves.—That