OCR Output 410 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. though more commonly known as the Fhime dellaMaddalena, which still forms the extreme limit ofthe suburbs of Naples on the E. side; from thenceit probably extended as far as the mole and oldcastle, which bound the port on the W. Plinyspeaks of the small island which he calls Mcgaris,and which can be no other than the rock now occu­pied by the Cattel delt Uovo, as situated betweenPausilypus and Neapolis (Plin. iii. 6. s. 12): it istherefore clear that the city did not extend so far asthis point. Immediately above the ancient portionof the city rises a steep hill, now crowned by theCattle of St. F.lmo; and from thence there runs anarrow volcanic ridge, of no great elevation, butsteep and abrupt, which continues without interrup­tion in a SW. direction, till it ends in a headlandimmediately opposite to the island of Nesis or Sitida.It is the western portion of this ridge which was knownin ancient times as the Moxs I'ArsiLYPua, and isstill called the Hill of Potilipo. It formed a markedbarrier between the immediate environs of Neapolisand those of Puteoli and liaise, and must have beena great obstacle to the free communication betweenthe two cities; hence a tunnel was opened throughthe hill for the passage of the high-road, which hasserved that purpose ever since. This passage, calledin ancient times the Crypta Neapolitans, and nowknown as the Grotto di Potilipo, is a remarkablework of its kind, and has been described by manymodem travellers. It is 2244 feet long, and 21feet broad: its height is unequal, but, towards theentrance, is not leas than 70 feet. It is probable,however, that the work has been much enlarged inlater times. Seneca, in one of his letters, gives agreatly exaggerated view of its fancied horrors,arising from the darkness and dust. (Sen. Ep. 57.)Stnibo assigns its construction to Cocceius, probablythe M. Cocceius Ncrva, who was superintendent ofaqueducts under Tiberius, and who constructed asimilar tunnel from the lake Avemus to Cumae(Strab. v. p. 245); and there is no reason to doubtthis statement, though many Italian antiquariansliave maintained that the work must be much moreancient On the hill immediately above the E. en­trance of the grotto is an ancient sepulchre designatedby tradition as the tomb of Virgil; and thoughpopular tradition is a very unsafe guide in suchcases, there seems in this instance no sufficientreason to reject its testimony. We know, from theprecise statement of Donatus, that the poet wasburied on the road to Puteoli, within less than twomiles from Naples (" via Puteolana intra lapidemsecundem," Dotiat. Vit. Virg.; Hieron. Chrvn. ad01. 190), which agrees well with the site in ques­tion, especially if (as is probable) the high-road atthat time passed over the hill, and not through thegrotto beneath. The argument of Cluverius, whoinferred, from the description of Statius (Silv. iv. 4.50—55), that the tomb of Virgil was situated atthe fc«t of Mount Vesuvius, is certainly untenable.(Cluver. Ital. p. 1153; Eustace's Clattical Tour,Tol. ii. pp. 370—380; Jorio, Guida di Pozzuoli,pp. 118, &c ) Near the Capo di Potilipo, as the headland oppo­site to Nitida is now called, are the extensive ruinsof a I; ■mill villa, which are supposed to be those ofthe celebrated villa of Vedius Pollio, which gavelumc to the whole hill, and which he bequeathed byhis will to Augustus. (Dion Cass. liv. 23; Plin.ix 53. s. 78.) Immediately opposite to the head­land, between it and the islund of Sitida (Nesis), lie two Bmall islets, or rather n«k<. one ef whjhnow serves for the Lazzaretto.—the other, which auninhabited, is called An Gajola; these are soppoasdto be the islands called by Statius Liroon and Lo-ploea. (Stat. Sih. ii. 2. 79, iii. I. 149.) Fromtheir trifling size it is no wonder that tbey an setnoticed by any other author. Recent exrarationion the supposed site of the villa of p..'.-. banbrought to light far more extensive remains thanwere previously known to exist, and which affrd astrong illustration of the magnificent scale on whichthese edifices were constructed. Among Use rainsthus brought to light are those of a theatre, theseats of which are cut out of the tnfo rock ; anOdeon, or theatre for music; a Basilica; aaaaJM na-merous porticoes and other edifices, and extensivereservoirs for water. But the moot remarkablework connected with these remains is a tunnel *gallery pierced through the promontory, which iiactually longer than the Grotta di Potilipo. Thiswork appears from an inscription to have been re­stored by the emperor Honorius; the period of itsconstruction is wholly uncertain. (Ba/fcft at IxM.Arch. 1841, pp. 147—160; Avclhno, BuOttt. Ar-chcol. NapoL 1843, Nas. 4—6.) Many writers hareassigned the extensive ruins visible on the hill ofPotilipo to a villa of Lucullus; and it is certainthat that statesman had a Neapolitan villa distinctfrom that at Miscnum (Cic. Acad. ii. 3). bat i*-»site is nowhere indicated; and the supposition thatit was the same which afterwards passed into thehands of Vedius Pollio is not warranted by anyancient authority. Though the neighbourhood of Naplet abounds oaall sides in ancient remains, those which are stillextant in the city itself are inconsiderable. Twearches of a It-man theatre in the street oiled A*ti-caglia, a fragment of an aqueduct known by thename of the Ponti Rotti, and the remains of atemple dedicated to Castor and Pollux, incorporatedinto the church of S. Paolo, are all the ancient ruinsnow visible. But the inscriptions which have beendiscovered on the site, and are for the moat part pre­served in the museum, are numerous and interesting.They fully confirm the account given by anrwatwriters of the Greek character so long retained bythe city, and notice its division into Phratriea, whichmust hare continued at least as late as the reign rfHadrian, since we find one of them named after hatfavourite Antinous. Others bore the names of Ea-melidac, Eunostidae, &c, the origin of which n>»yprobably be traced back to the first foundation afthe Cumaean colony. From some of these hitions we learn that the Greek language ibe used there, even in public documents, as hat* aathe second century after the Christian era. ( B»»*ih,C. I. vol. iii. pp. 714—750; Mgtumsrn, later.Regn. Neap. pp. 127—131.) COBf Or XKAFOU8 or caxii-aau. 2. (A'nowi).a city of Sardinia, and apparently on* afthe most considerable places in that island, was ■ta­sted on the W. coast, at the southern extremity of