OCR Output 220 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW!,. Book XIII. into captivity, Trypho his governor destroyed Antiochus * theson of Alexander, who was also called f the God, and thiswhen he had reigned four years, though he gave it out that hedied under the hands of the surgeons. He then sent his friends,and those that were most intimate with him, to the soldiers;and promised that he would give them a great deal of moneyif they would make him king. He intimated to them thatDemetrius was made a captive by the Parthians; and that De­metrius' brother Antiochus, if he came to be king, would dothem a great deal of mischief, in way of revenge for their re­volting from his brother. So the soldiers, in expectation of thewealth they should get by bestowing the kingdom on Trypho,made him their ruler. However, when Trypho had gained themanagement of affairs, he demonstrated his disposition to bewicked; for while he was a private person, he cultivated a fa­miliarity with the multitude, and pretended to great modera­tion, and so drew them on artfully to whatsoever he pleased;but when he had once taken the kingdom, he laid aside anyfarther dissimulation, and was true Trypho, which behaviourmade his enemies superior to him, for the soldiery hated him,and revolted from him to Cleopatra the wife of Demetrius,who was then shut up in Seleucia with her children. But asAntiochus, the brother of Demetrius, who was called Soter, to the crown, about the 140th year before the Christian sera, he granted great pri­vileges to the Jewish nation, and to Simon their high priest and ethnarch, whichprivileges Simon seems to have taken of his own accord about three years before.In particular, he gave him leave to coin money for his country with his own stamp;and as concerning Jerusalem, and the sanctuary, that they should be free, or as thevulgar Latin hath it, holy and free, 1 Maccab. xv. 6, 7. which I take to be the true,reading, as being the very words of his father's concession offered to Jonathan severalyears before, ch. x. 31. and Antiq. B. XIII. ch. ii. sect. 5. vol. II. Now whatmakes this date, and these grants, greatly remarkable, is the state of the remaininggenuine shekels of the Jews with Samaritan characters, w*iicb seem to have been(most of them at least) coined in the four first years of this Simon the Asamonean,and having upon them these words on one side, Jerusalem the holy, and on the re­verse, In the year of freedom, 1. or 2. or 3. or 4. which shekels therefore are origmalmonuments of these times, and undeniable marks of the truth of the history in thesechapters, though it be in a great measure omitted by Josephus. See Essay on theOld Test. p. 157, 158. The reason why I rather suppose that his copy of the Mac­cabees wanted these chapters, than that his own copies are here imperfect, is this, thatall their contents are not here omitted, though much the greatest part be. * How Trypho killed this Antiochus, the epitome of Livy informs us, chap. 55.viz. that he corrupted his physicians or surgeons, who falsely pretending to the peo­ple that be was perishing with the stone, as they cut him for it, killed him, whichexactly agrees with Josephus. f That this Antiochus, the son at Alexander Balas, was called the God, is evidentfrom his coins, which Spanheim assures us bear this inscription, Xing Antiochutthe God, Epiphanes the Victorious.