OCR Output 16ft [book V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the city Shechem, and cried out bo as to beheard by the multitude, who were attentiveto him. He desired they would considerwhat he was going to say; so when silencewas made,* he said, "When the trees had ahuman voice, and there was an assembly ofthem gathered together, they desired that thefig-tree would rule over them. But when thattree refused so to do, because it was con­tented to enjoy that honour which belongedpeculiarly to the fruit it bare, and not thatwhich should be derived to it from abroad,the trees did not leave off their intentions tohave a ruler; so they thought proper to makethe offer of that honour to the vine. Butwhen the vine was chosen, it made use of thesame words which the fig-tree had used be­fore, and excused itself from accepting thegovernment; and when the olive-tree haddone the same, the briar, a sort of wood goodfor firing, promised to take the government,and to be zealous in the exercise of it; butthat then they must sit down under its shadow;and if they should plot against it to destroy it,the principle of fire that was in it should de- stroy them."—He added, "that what he hadsaid was no laughing matter: tor that whenthey had experienced many blessings from, Gideon, they overlooked Abimelech, whenhe overruled all, and had joined with him inslaying his brethren, and that he was no bet­ter than a fire himself." So when he hadsaid this, he went away, and lived privatelyin the mountains for three years, out of fearof Abimelech.f A little while after this festival, the She-chemites, who had now repented of havingslain the sons of Gideon, drove Abimelechaway, both from,their city and their tribe;whereupon he contrived how he might dis­tress their city. Now at the season of vintage,the people were afraid to go out, and gathertheir fruits, for fear Abimelech should dothem some mischief. Now it happened thatthere had come to them a man of authority,one Gaal, that sojourned with them, havinghis armed men and his kinsmen with him, sothe Shechemites desired that he would allowthem a guard during their vintage. Accord­ingly he accepted of their desires, and the * This is the first fable that we find any where uponrecord; and from hence it appears, that such fictions asthese, wherein the most serious truths are represented,were in use among the Jews, as they are still in the easterncountries, long before the time of jEsop, or any otherauthor that we know of. Various are the reasons that maybe assigned for the first invention of them; but these twoseem to be the principal: 1. Because men would sufferthemselves to be reprehended in this guise, when theywould not endure plain words: and, 2. Because theyheard them with delight and pleasure, and rememberedthem better than any grave or rational discourses. Thetrees went forth on a time, to anoint a king over them, (sothat anointing was in use 200 years before the first king ofIsrael;) and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign over us.But the olive-tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness,wherewith by me they honour God and man, (because oilwas offered in sacrifice to God, and fed the lamps of hishouse, besides all the other uses wherein it was service­able to man,) and go to be promoted over the trees? Andthe trees said to tlie fig-tree, Come thou and reign over us.But the Jig-tree said to them, Should I forsake my sweetness,and my good fruit, (an apt representation of that contentand fulness of pleasure which may be enjoyed in a privatelife, and cannot, without folly, be exchanged for the trou­bles and cares that men meet with in the managery ofpublic affairs,) and go to be promoted over the trees? Thensaid the trees unto tlte vine, Come thou and reign over us.And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, whichcheereth God and man, (a form of speech imitated by Hea­then authors, especially by Virgil, (Georg. lib. 2.) wherespeaking of some generous wine, he terms it—mensis etdiis accepta secundis, since wine, as well as oil, was usedboth in Jewish and Heathen sacrifices,) and go to be pro- moted over the trees? Then said all the trees unto the bramble,(the meanest of all trees, good for nothing but to be burnt,and therefore fitly resembling Abimelech, from whom theShechemites could expect no manner of benefit, but agreat deal of trouble and vexation,) Come thou, and reignover us. And the bramble said unto the trees, If, in truth,ye anoint me king, then come and put your trust in myshadow, (an apt emblem of Abimelech's ridiculous vanity,to imagine that he should be able to maintain the authorityof a king, any more than the bramble could afford a shadowor shelter,) and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, anddevour the cedars of Lebanon; (words that carry a livelyimage of Abimelech's ostentatious spirit, and menaces totake severe vengeance on the nobles of Shechem, such asthe house of Millo, who had been chiefly instrumental inhis promotion, in case they should desert him.) This isthe parable, and, in some measure, the interpretation.The only difficulty is, to know whom these trees are setto signify. And here, some have thought, that by theolive-tree we are to understand Othniel; by the fig-tree,Deborah, and by the vine, Gideon; for to the two former;they suppose the offer of the kingdom was made for theservices done their country, and by them rejected, as wella« by the last. But for this there is no authority; neitheris there any necessity, in the explication of such fables, toassign a particular reason for every image that is drawn inthem. -It is sufficient if we can but hit off their main in­tendment, which, in this of Jotham, was to convince theShechemites of their folly in choosing a man for their king,who was no more able to protect them, than a bramblewas to cover other trees that should resort to it, under theshadow of its branches. Saurin't Dissertations, and Pa.trick's Commentary. Bt Judg. ix. 21.