OCR Output 420 ROMAN EMPIRE. thousand baths of the city; and such was their incredi­ble multitude, that six months were barely sufficient forthe consumption of this precious fuel. Since the dy­nasties of Abulpharagius" have been given to the worldin a Latin version, the tale has been repeatedly tran­scribed; and every scholar, with pious indignation, hasdeplored the irreparable shipwreck of the learning, thearts, and the genius, of antiquity. For my own part, Iam strongly tempted to deny both the fact and the con­sequences. The fact is indeed marvellous. Read andwonder! says the historian himself: and the solitaryreport of a stranger who wrote at the end of six hundredyears on the confines of Media, is overbalanced by thesilence of two annalists of a more early date, both Chris­tians, both natives of Egypt, and the most ancient ofwhom, the patriarch Eutychius, has amply described theconquest of Alexandria.11 The rigid sentence of Omaris repugnant to the sound and orthodox precept of theMahometan casuists: they expressly declare that thereligious books of the Jews and Christians, which areacquired by the right of war, should never be committedto the flames; and that the works of profane science,historians or poets, physicians or philosophers, may belawfully applied to the use of the faithful.0 A moredestructive zeal may perhaps be attributed to the firstsuccessors of Mahomet: yet in this instance, the con­flagration would have speedily expired in the deficiencyof materials. I shall not recapitulate the disasters ofthe Alexandrian library, the involuntary flame that waskindled by CaBsar in his own defence/ or the mischievous » Abulpharag. Dynast, p. 114. vers. Pocock. Audi quid factum sit et mirare.It would be endless to enumerate the modems who have wondered and believed,but I may distinguish with honour the rational scepticism of Renaudot: (Hist.Alex. Patriarch, p. 170.) historia habet aliquid «riarw ut Arabibus familiare est. b This curious anecdote will be vainly sought in the annals of Eutychius and theSaracenic history of Elmacin. The silence of Abulfeda, Murtadi, and a crowd ofMoslems, is less conclusive from their ignorance of Christian literature. * See Reland, de Jure Militari Mohammedanorum, in his third volume of Dis­sertations, p. 37. The reasons for not burning the religious books of the Jew sChristians, is derived from the respect that is due to the namt of God. * Consult the collections of Frensheim (Supplement. Livum. c. 12. 43.) and