OCR Output 498 THE DECLINE AND FALL abuse of their confidence could not be very frequent, and thegeneral uses to which their liberality was applied, reflected honouron the religious society. A decent portion was reserved for themaintainance of the bishop and his clergy; a sufficient sum wasallotted for the expences of the public worship, of which the feastsof love, the agapæ, as they were called, constituted a very pleasingand essential part. The w,hole remainder was the sacred patrimonyof the poor. According to the discretion of the bishop, it was dis­tributed to support widows and orphans, the lame, the sick, andthe aged of the community; to comfort strangers and pilgrims, andto alleviate the misfortunes of prisoners and captives, more especially ,when their sufferings had been occasioned by their firm attach­ment to the cause of religion "9. A generous intercourse of charityunited the most distant provinces, and the smaller congregationswere cheerfully assisted by the alms of their more opulent bre­thren ,4°. Such an institution, which paid less regard to the meritthan to the distress of the object, very materially conduced to theprogress of Christianity. The Pagans, who were actuated by a fenseof humanity, while they derided the doctrines, acknowledged thebenevolence of the new sect '*'. The prospect of immediate reliefand of future protection allured into its hospitable bosom manyof those unhappy persons whom the neglect of the world wouldhave abandoned to the miseries of want, of sickness, and of oldage. There is some reason likewise to believe, that great num­bers of infants, who, according to the inhuman practice of thetimes, had been exposed by their parents, were frequently rescuedfrom death, baptised, educated, and maintained by the piety ofthe Christians, and at the expence of the public treasure '**.Excommum ^' 1S undoubted right of every society to exclude fromcation. its communion and benefits, such among its members as reject orviolate those regulations which have been established by general con­sent. In the exercise of this- power, the censures of the Christian- 2 church;