OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 131 were no wonder if the army were weary of my com­mand: yet, what had your country deserved of you,that, by uniting your counsels with Mandonius and In-dibilis, you were going to betray it? What had theRoman people merited, when you took away thepower from the tribunes appointed by their commonsuffrage, and conferred it on private men? when, noteven content with having them for magistrates, you, aRoman army, bestowed the badges of your generalson men who never had been possessed of so much as asingle slave? Albius and Atrius dwelt in the general'spavilion, the trumpets sounded by their orders, theword was taken from them, they sat on the tribunal ofPublius Scipio, they were attended by lictors, the waywas cleared for them, the rods and axes were carriedbefore them. That it should rain stones, that light­nings should be darted from heaven, and that animalsshould produce monstrous births, you look on as pro­digies. This is a prodigy that can be expiated by novictims, by no supplications, without the blood ofthose who dared to commit such enormous crimes. 28. 'Now although no wickedness proceeds onany grounds of reason, yet, in a transaction of suchatrocity as this, I should be glad to know what wasyour intention, what your scheme. Formerly, a le­gion, which had been sent as a garrison to Rhegium,wickedly put to death the principal inhabitants, andkept possession of that opulent city for ten years; forwhich offence the whole legion, four thousand men,were beheaded in the forum at Rome. These, how­ever, did not put themselves under the command of anAtrius, a man no better than a scullion, whose veryname was ominous; but of Decius Jubellius, a mili­tary tribune: nor did they join themselves to the ene­mies of the Roman people, either to the Samnites orLncanians. You united in counsels with Mandoniusand Indibilis, with whom you intended to have unitedalso your arms. Besides, those men expected to holdRhegium as a lasting settlement, as the Campaniamheld Capua, after taking it from the ancient Tuscan