OCR Output 376 THE DECLINE AND FALL XXXIX. chap, long impatience, the senate, the clergy, and the peo­ple, went forth to meet their hero, with tears andacclamations, with olive branches and innumerablelamps: he entered the capital in a chariot drawn byfour elephants; and as soon as the emperor coulddisengage himself from the tumult of public joy, hetasted more genuine satisfaction in the embraces ofhis mother and his son*. The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumphof a very different kind, the restitution of the truecross to the holy sepulchre. Heraclius performed inperson the pilgrimage of Jerusalem, the identity ofthe relic was verified by the patriarch, and this augustceremony has been commemorated by the annualfestival of the exaltation of the cross. Before the em­peror presumed to tread the consecrated ground, hewas instructed to strip himself of the diadem andpurple, the pomp and vanity of the world. He againascended his throne to receive the congratulations ofthe ambassadors of France and India; and the fameof Alexander was eclipsed, in the popular estimation,by the superior merit and glory of the great Hera­clius. Yet the deliverer of the East was indigentand feeble. Of the Persian spoils, the most valuableportion had been expended in the war, distributed tothe soldiers, or buried, by an unlucky tempest, in thewaves of the Euxine. The conscience of the em­peror was oppressed by the obligation of restoringthe wealth of the clergy, which he had borrowed fortheir own defence; a perpetual fund was requiredto satisfy these inexorable creditors; the provinces,already wasted by the arms and avarice of the Per­sians, were compelled to a second payment of the • The burden of Corneille's song, "Montrez Heraclius au peuple qui 1'attend,"is much belter suited to the present occasion. See bis triumph in Thcophanes(p. 272, 27li) and Nicephoras (p. 15, 16). The life of the mother and tender­ness of the sbn are attested by George of Pisidia (Bcl1 . Abar. 1255, &c. p. 49).