OCR Output 502 [book xiv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. which had elevated itself so high before,within its own bounds. Moreover he Re­built Gadara, which had been demolished alittle before, to gratify Demetrius of Gadara,who was his freed man; and restored the restof the cities, Hippos, Scythopolis, Pella,Dios, and Samaria; as also Marissa, Ashdod,Jamnia, and Arethusa, to their own inhabit­ants: these were in the inland parts. Besidesthose that had been demolished; and alsoof the maritime cities, Gaza, Joppa, Dora,and Strato's Tower: which last Herod re­built after a glorious manner, and adornedwith havens and temples; and changed itsname to Caesarea. All these Pompey left ina state of freedom; and joined them to theprovince of Syria. Now the occasions of this misery whichcame upon Jerusalem, were Hyrcanus andAristobulus; by raising a sedition one againstthe other. For now we lost our liberty ,t andbecame subject to the Romans; and weredeprived of that country which we had gainedby our arms from the Syrians; and were com­pelled to restore it to them. The Romansalso exacted of us, in a little time, above tenthousand talents. And the royal authority,which was a dignity formerly bestowed onthose that were high-priests, by the right oftheir family, became the property of privatemen. But of these matters we shall treat intheir proper places. Now Pompey committedCoelesyria, as far as the river Euphrates andEgypt, to Scaurus, with two Roman legions; and then went away to Cilicia; and madehaste to Rome. He also carried with himAristobulus and his children. For he hadtwo daughters, and as many sons: one ofwhich ran away; but the younger, Antigonus,w as carried to Rome, together with his sisters. CHAP. V. OF THE LEAGUE OF BTOTUAL ASSISTANCE WHICH SCAURUSMADE WITH ARETAS J AND WHAT GABINIUS DID IN JCDF.A,AFTER HE HAD CONQUERED ALEXANDER, THE SON OF ARISTOBULUS. SCAURUS now made an expedition!against Petra, in Arabia, and set on fireall the surrounding places, because of thegreat difficulty of access to it. And as hisarmy was pinched by famine, Antipater fur­nished him with corn out of Judea, and withwhatever else he wanted, and this at the com­mand of Hyrcanus. And when he was sentto Aretas, as an ambassador, by Scaurus, be­cause he had lived with him formerly; hepersuaded Aretas to give Scaurus a sum ofmoney, to prevent the burning of his country;and undertook to be his surety for three hun­dred talents. So Scaurus, upon these terms,ceased to make war any longer: which wasdone as much at Scaurus's desire, as at thedesire of Aretas. Some time afterward, when Alexander, theson of Aristobulus, made an incursion intoJudea, Gabinius came from Rome to Syria,as commander of the Roman forces. He did * Of the destruction of Gadara, here presupposed, andits restoration by Pompey, see the note, On the War,I. 7. Of this Demetrius of Gadara, Pompey's freed man,we have mention both by Seneca and Plutarch, as Dr.Hudson here notes; and from the restitution of thesecities, an aera of the Greeks takes date, in the Greekcollections for Eusebius, set down in Scaliger; and wastaken from the 179th Olympiad; as Spanheim observes. t Before this, the government had been managed, underthe prince, by two sorts of councils, or courts of justice;one consisting of twenty-three persons, called the LesserSanhedrim; and the other, of seventy-two, called theGreater Sanhedrim. Of the first sort there was one inevery city; only in Jerusalem, (because of the greatnessof the place,) there were two, which sat apart from eachother in two distinct rooms. Of the latter sort there wasonly one in the whole land. The Lesser Sanhedrim des­patched all affairs of justice arising within the respectivecities where they sat, and the precincts belonging to them.The Great Sanhedrim presided over the affairs of the.whole nation, received appeals from the Lesser Sanhedrims,interpreted the laws, and, by new institutions from time to time, regulated the execution of them. All this Gabiniusabolished; and, instead thereof, erected five courts, orSanhedrims, and invested them all with sovereign power,independent of each other. The first of them he placedat Jerusalem; the second at Jericho; the third at Gadara;the fourth at Amathus; and the fifth at Sepphoris; andhaving, under these five cities, divided the land into fiveprovinces, he ordered the inhabitants of each to repair tothe court which he had there erected, and from whichthere was no appeal, except it was to Rome. Besides thetwo sorts of Sanhedrims abovementioned, there was athird court among the Jews, which was not affected by anyof these alterations, and that was the court of three, insti­tuted for the deciding all controversies about bargains,sales, contracts, and all other such matters of commonright between man and man. In all which cases, one ofthe litigants chose one judge, and the other another, andthese two chose a third, which three constituted a courtto hear, and ultimately determine the matter in contest.Talmud in Sanhedrim; Lightfoofs Prospect of the Tttnplt,chap. 20 and 22; and Joseph. Antiq. lib. 14. C 10. B.X An. 62.