OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 221 was not admitted by any of the cities on account of Trypho,'Cleopatra sent to him, and invited him to marry her, and to takethe kingdom. The reasons why she made this invitation werethese: That her friends persuaded her to it, and that she wasafraid for herself, in case some of the people of Seleucia shoulddeliver up the city to Trypho. 2. As Antiochus was now come to Seleucia, and his forcesincreased every day, he marched to fight Trypho; and havingbeaten him in the battle, he ejected him out of thellpper Syriainto Phenicia, and pursued him thither, and besieged him inDora, which was a fortress hard to be taken, whither he hadfled. He also sent ambassadors to Simon the Jewish high priest,about a league of friendship and mutual assistance; who readilyaccepted of the invitation, and sent to Antiochus great sums ofmoney, and provisions, for those that besieged Dora, and there­by supplied them very plentifully, so that for a little while hewas looked upon as one of his most intimate friends: but stillTrypho fled from Dora to Apamia, where he was taken duringthe siege, and put to death, when he had reigned three years. 3. However, Antiochus forgot the kind assistance that Simonhad afforded him in his necessity: by reason of his covetous andwicked disposition, and committed an army of soldiers to hisfriend Cendebeus, and sent him at once to ravage Judea, and toseize Simon. When Simon heard of Antiochus' breaking hisleague with him, although he were now in years, yet, pro­voked with the unjust treatment he had met with from Antio­chus, and taking a resolution brisker than his age could wellbear, he went like a young man to act as general of his army.He also sent his sons before among the most hardy of his sol­diers, and he himself marched on with his army another way,and laid many of his men in ambushes in the narrow vallevsibetween the mountains; nor did he fail of success in any one ofhis attempts, but was too hard for his enemies in every one ofthem. So he led the rest of his life in peace, and did also him­self make a league with the Romans. 4. Now he was the ruler of the Jews in all eight years; butat a feast came to his end. It was caused by the treachery ofhis son-in-law Ptolemy; who caught also his wife, and twoof his sons, and kept them in bonds. He also sent someto kill John the third son, whose name was Hyrcanus ,- but theyoung man perceiving them coming, he * avoided the danger he * Here Josephus begins to follow, and to abridge the next sacred Hebrew book,Jtyledintheendof the first book of Maccabees, The Chronicle of John's [ffyrcanus']l/igh priesthood, but in some of the Greek copies the fourth book of Maccabeus. AGreek version of this chronicle was extant not very long ago, in the days of SantesFagninus and Sixtus Senensis, at Lyons, though it see?- to have been there burnt,