OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 121 and his friend Haman would come to her to a banquet, for shesaid she had prepared a supper for him. He consented to it;and when they were there, as they were drinking, he bid Estherto " let him know what she desired; for that she should not be"disappointed, though she should desire the half of his king-"dom." But she put off the discovery of her petition till thenext day, if he would come again, together with Haman, to herbanquet. 10. Now when the king had promised so to do, Haman wentaway very glad, because he alone had the honour of supping withthe king at Esther's banquet, and because no one else partookof the same honour with kings but himself; yet when he sawMordecai in the court, he was very much displeased, for he paidhim no manner of respect when he saw him. So he went homeand called for his wife Zeresh, and his friends, and when theywere come, he showed them what honour he enjoyed not onlyfrom the king, but from the queen also, for as he alone had thatday supped with her, together with the king, so was he also in­vited again for the next day; yet, said he, am I not pleased tosee Mordecai the Jew in the court. Hereupon his wife Zereshadvised him to give order that a gallows should be made fiftycubits high, and that in the morning he should ask it of the king,that Mordecai might be hanged thereon. So he commended heradvice, and gave order to his servants to prepare the gallows, andto place it in the court, for the punishment'of Mordecai thereon,which was accordingly prepared. But God laughed to scorn thewicked expectations of Haman ; and as he knew what the eventwould be, was delighted at it, for that night he took away theking's sleep; and as the king was not willing to lose the time ofhis lying awake, but to spend it in something that might be ofadvantage to his kingdom, he commanded the scribe to bring himthe chronicles of the former kings, and the records of his ownactions; and when he had brought them and was reading them,one was found to have received a country on account of his ex­cellent management on a certain occasion, and the name of thecountry was set down; another was found to have had a presentmade him on account of his fidelity: then the scribe came to Big-than and Teresh, the eunuchs that had made a conspiracy againstthe king, which Mordecai had discovered, and when the scribesaid no more but that, and was going on to another history, theking stopped him, and inquired " Whether it was not added that"Mordecai had a reward given him?" and when he said therewas no such addition, he bid him leave off; and he inquired ofthose that were appointed for that purpose, what hour of thenight it was? and when he was informed that it was alreadyday, he gave order, that if they found any one of his friends al­