OCR Output 214 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.' begged of me to spare him one of his hands, it was with difficultty that I granted it. So, in order to prevent the loss of both hishands, he willingly took his sword, and cut off his own lefthand ; and this put an end to the sedition. 35. Now the men of Tiberias, after I was gone to Taricheae,perceived what stratagem I had used against them, and they ad­mired how I had put an end to their foolish sedition, withoutshedding of blood. . But now, when I had sent for some of thosemultitudes of the people of Tiberias out of prison, among whomwere Justus and his father Pistus, I made them to sup with me ;and during our supper-time I said to them, that I knew thepower of the Romans was superior to all others, but did not sayso [publicly] because of the robbers. So I advised them to doas I did, and to wait for a proper opportunity, and not to beuneasy at my being their commander ; for that they could notexpect to have another who would use the like moderation thatI had done. I also put Justus in mind how the Galileans hadcut off his brother's hands, before ever I came to Jerusalem,upon on accusation laid against him, as if he had been a rogue,and had forged some letters ; as also how the people of Gamala,in a sedition they raised against the Babylonians, after the de­parture of Philip, slew Chares, who was a kinsman of Philip,and withal how they had wisely punished Jesus, his brother Jus­tus's sister's husband, [with death]. When I had said this to themduring supper-time, I in the morning ordered Justus, and all therest that were in prison, to be loosed out of it, and sent away. . 36'. But before this, it happened that Philip, the son of Jaci-mus, went out of the citadel of Gamala upon the following oc­casion : When Philip had been informed that Varus was put outof his government by king Agrippa, and that Modius Equieo-lus, a man that was of old his friend and companion, was cometo succeed him, he wrote to him, and related what turns of for­tune he had had, and desired him to forward the letters he sentto the king and queen. Now, when Modius had received theseletters, he was exceedingly glad, and sent the letters to the kingand queen, who were then about Berytus. But when king A-grippa knew that the story about Philip was false, (for it hadbeen given out, that the Jews had begun a war with the Ro­mans, and that this Philip had been their commander in thatwax), he sent some horsemen to conduct Philip to him, and,when he was come, he saluted him very obligingly, and shewedhim to the Roman commanders, and told them that this was theman of whom the report had gone about as if he had revoltedfrom the Romans. He also bid him to take some horsemen withhim, and to go quickly to the citadel of Gamala, and to bring out