OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 20, terward by the restitution, of the estates which he hadunjustly extorted from his Tuscan neighbours. Twohundred thousand barbarians, formidable even to theirmaster, were seated in the heart of Italy; they indig­nantly supported the restraints of peace and discipline;the disorders, of their march were always felt, and some­times compensated; and where it was dangerous to pu­nish, it might be prudent to dissemble, the sallies of theirnative fierceness. When the indulgence of Theodorichad remitted two-thirds of the Ligurian tribute, he con­descended to explain the difficulties of his situation, andto lament the heavy though inevitable burdens which heimposed on his subjects for their own defence/1 Theseungrateful subjects could never be cordially reconciledto the origin, the religion, or even the virtues of theGothic conqueror; past calamities were forgotten, andthe sense or suspicion of injuries was rendered still moreexquisite by the present felicity of the times.Even the religious toleration, which Theodoric had the He'»«>ro- vukcd to glory of introducing into the Christian world, was painful persecuteand offensive to the orthodox zeal of the Italians. They n*,. *respected the armed heresy of the Goths; but their piousrage was safely pointed against the rich and defencelessJews, who had formed their establishments at Naples,Rome, Ravenna, Milan, and Genoa, for the benefit oftrade, and under the sanction of the laws/ Their per­sons were insulted, their effects were pillaged, and theirsynagogues were burnt by the mad populace of Ravennaand Rome, inflamed, as it should seem, by the most fri­volous or extravagant pretences. The government whichcould neglect, would have deserved, such an outrage. Alegal inquiry was instantly directed; and as the authorsof the tumult had escaped in the crowd, the whole com­munity was condemned to repair the damage; and the i immauiam expensarum pondus . . . pro ipsoram salute, &c. yet these are nomore than words. r The Jews were settled at Naples, (Prncopiiis, Goth. lib. 1. c. 8.) at Genoa, (Var.2. 28! 4. 53.) Milai>, (5..3?.) Rome, (4. 43.) See likewise Basnagc, Hist, des Jait's,-ton. 8. c. 7. p. 2o4l''' . , , .'