OCR Output ITALIA. ITALIA. 9] h lis wee «t find Cicero alluding to " Italia tri-kcn donipti" u a matter of interest to the can-U public offices. (Q. Cic. de Petit. Com. 8.)3. Italy wider the Roman Empire. — No material< iaace introduced into the political condition ofhi; ibe esublisbment of the imperial authorityrtn; the constitution and regulations that ex -•tat brfn the end of the Republic continued, with■u< i rrw modincations, in full force. The most.-rjnuat of these was the system of municipal or-;iiiiaic which pervaded every part of the country,at abidk was directly derived from the days ofhuaa freed-xn, when every town had really pos-•wl as independent government. Italy, as itnA'-i mler the Romans, may be still regarded ast Kzrr&Xe of individual communities, though these.j>t ill prrtensions to national independence,i*i rruiaed oolr their separate municipal existence.Inn osnicipiuin had its own internal organisation,■ttMiiu* Terr nearly a miniature copy of that of3p republic. It had its senate or council,btki of which were called Decuriones, and•_r itself Ordo Ifecurionum, or often simply"•u. ;ti popular assemblies, which, however, soonw2 iata dilute under the Empire; and its localA.-:=t»iei. cf whom the principal were the Duum-or ametimes Quataorviri, answering to the Ro-o*ieaii and praetors: the Quinquennales, withbaoai asakifrous to those of the censors; theiiij Quaestors, whose duties nearly corre-'- 3b'i «i: b tin** of the same magistrates at Rome.>'jtm current magistrates were annually elected, atwc W the popular assembly, subsequently by theflrjBe w Dccuxiuns : the members of the latter bodyJ". btir offices for life. Nor was this municipal; ■'■no«a oDLnoed to the town in which it was: rrrrr inch Municipiuin possessed a terri-1 7 w Arer, of which it was as it were the capital,■M <n» which it exercised the same municipal,'i*rj] as within its own walls. This district«ane ru-.ed much in extent, but in many in-ian rjOipri»ed a very considerable territory, in-*-^>r amy smaller towns and villages, all which«wt Apodest, fcr municipal purposes, upon the■~zal mi chief town. Thus we are told by Pliny,=air cf the tribes that inhabited the Alpine-*7» tcriering on the plains of Gallia Cisalpina,*r» It t£j ly.j pompeii assigned to certain neigh-v-csjj Bsskspk (Lege J'ompeiu ottributi muni-apti. PSa. in. 20. s. 24), that is to say, theywet untied in their territory, and subjected to."-nsi-tiua. A/rain, we know that the terri-m Cnrai'jca and Mantua adjoined one another,■-.p Zm aties were at a considerable distance.U "^m naaaer, the territory of Beneventum coni-F^w* > Wj» put of the land of the Hirpini. It isEa r-mi which give* a great importance to the••sake between municipal towns and those which'-»n»; that the former were not only them-'.w ~ iaipL.runt places, but were, in fact, thet^xi* rf istras*, into winch the whole country** cmied. The villages and minor towns in-wcLa these districts were distinguished by't-cx (y«naliabula, vici, castella," and were<^A>at -foa the chief town, though sometimest luboruiiiate and imperfect local organi-*-:3,<'-<o«n. In some cases it even happened^rm. bral chruinstances, one of these subordi-''fana would rise to a condition of wealth andlrfr*T37 u.' sjrpissuig tinjee of the mnnicipinm, ont arveribelesi cuotiiiued dej^ndcut. Thus, the opulent watering-place of Baiae always remained,in a municipal sense, a mere dependency of Cumae The distinction between coloniae and municipia,which had been of great importance under the Ko-man republic, lost its real significance, when thecitizens of both alike possessed the Roman franchise.But the title of colonia was still retained by thosetowns which had received fresh colonies towards theclose of the Republic under Caesar or the Trium­virate, as well as under the Empire. It appears tohave been regarded as an honorary distinction, andas giving a special claim upon the favour and pro­tection of the founder and his descendants; thoughit conferred no real political superiority. (Gell.xri. 13.) On the other hand, the l'raefecturae — aname also derived from the early republican period—were distinguished from the colonies and municipiaby the circumstance that the juridical functions werethere exercised by a Praefectus, an officer sent directfrom Rome, instead of by the Duumviri or Qua-tuorviri (whose legal title was Ilviri or JlllviriJuri dicundo) elected by the municipality. But asthese distinctions were comparatively unimportant,the name of " municipia" is not unfrequently appliedin a generic sense, so as to include all towns whichhad a local self-government. "Oppida" is sometimesemployed with the same meaning. Pliny, however,generally uses "oppida" as equivalent to "muni­cipia," but exclusive of colonics: thus, in describingthe eighth region, he says, "CoUmiae Bononia, Bfixillum, Mutinu, etc Oppida Caesena, Claterna, Forum Clodi, etc." (iii. 15. 8. 20, etpassim). It is important to observe that, in allsuch passages, the list of " oppida " is certainly meantto include only municipal towns; and the liststhus given by Pliny, though disfigured by corruptionand carelessness, were probably in the first instancederived from official sources. Hence the markedagreement which may be traced between them andthe lists given in the Liber Coloniarum, wliich, not­withstanding the corruptions it has suffered, is un­questionably based upon good materials. (Concerningthe municipal institutions of Italy, see £avigny,Vermischle Schriflen, vol. iii. pp. 279—412. andGesch. det Horn. Rechti, vol. i.; Marquardt, Uandb.d. Jiihn. Alterthiimtr, vol. iii. pt i. pp. 44—55;Hoeck, Rvm. Geschichte, book 5, chap. 3 ; and thearticle Gallia Cisalpina.) The municipal organisation of Italy, and the ter­ritorial distribution connected with it, lasted through­out the Roman empire, though there was always astrong tendency on the part of the central authorityand its officers to encroach upon the municipalpowers: and in one important point, that of theirlegal jurisdiction, those powers were materially cir­cumscribed. But the municipal constitution itselfnaturally acquired increased importance as the cen­tral power became feeble and disorganised: it sur­vived the fall of the Western Empire, and continuedto subsist under the Gothic anil Lombard conquerors,until the cities of Italy gradually assumed a ]>jsitioiiof independence, and the municipal constitutionswhich had existed under the Roman empire, becamethe foundation of the free republics of the middleages. (Savigny, Gesch. des Runiuchen liechtt imMitUl Alter, vol. i.) The ecclesiastical arrangements introduced afterthe establishment of Christianity in the Roman em­pire, appear to have stool in clo=e connection with,the municipal limits. Ahnubt every town which wasthen a flourishing municipitim became the see of a