OCR Output 14 IDUMAEA. IDIMIUM. scribed by Mnriti ( Viaggi, vol. i. p. 204). situatedto the south of Leucuoia, at the foot of MmititOlytnpna. [E.B. J.] IDIMIUM, a town in Lower Pannonia, on the eastof Sinnium, according to the Peut. Tab.; in the l.'a-venna Geographer (iv. 19) it is called ldoininium.Its site must be looked for in the neighbourhood ofAfunricza. [L S.] I DIM IS, a town of uncertain site in Upper Moesia,probably on ihe Morawa in Serria. (It. Ant. 134;Tab. Pent.) [L. S.] IDISTAVISUS CAMPUS, the famoua battle­field where Gcnnanicus, in a. d. 16, defeated Ar-ininius. The name is mentioned only by Tacitus(Ann. ii. 16), who describes it as a "campus me­dio* inter Visurgim et colles," and further says of it,that" ut ripae fluminis codunt aut prominentia mon-timn resistunt, inaequallter sinuatur. Pone terguminsurgebat silva, editis in altum ramis ct pura humointer arborum truncos." This plain between theriver H'ejrr and the hills has been the subject ofmuch discussion among the modem historians ofGermany, and various places have been at differenttimes pointed out as answering the description ofTacitus' Idiatavisus. It was formerly believed thatit was tlto plain near Vegtmck, below Bremen;more recent writers are pretty unanimous in believ­ing that Germanicus went up the river Wrser to apoint beyond the modern town of Minden, andcrossed it in the neighborhood of Haiuberge,whence the battle probably took place between Haut-berge and Kinleln, not far from the Porta Vestpbalica.(Ledebur, Land u. Volk der Bructerer, p. 288.)As to the name of the place, it used to be believedthat it had arisen out of a Koman asking a Germanwhat the place was, and the German answering," Itis a wiese" (it is a meadow); but Grimm (DeutscheilgthoL p. 372. 2nd edit) has shown that the plainwas prohably called Iditiarito, that is," the maiden'smeadow" (Innn idui, a maiden). [L. S.] IDO'MI.SK ('llouim, Ptol. iii. 13. § 39 ; ldo-menia, I'ml. Tab.), a town of Macedonia which theTabular Itinerary places at 12 M. P. from Siena,the pass now called Demirknjn. or Iron Gate, on theriver Vardhdri. Sitalces, on his route from Thraceto Macedonia, crossed Mt. Cercine, leaving the Pae-ones on his right, and the Sinli ami Maedi on hisleft, and descended upon the Axius at Idomene.(Time. ii. 98.) It probably stood upon the righthank of the Axius, as it is included by Ptolemy(L c.) in Emathia, and was near Doberos, next towhich it is named by Hierocles among the towns ofConsular Macedonia, under the Byuntino empire.(I.eakn. .YorfA. Greece, vol. iii. p. 444.) [E. B. J.] IDO'MENK. [Arocw Ampiiiux-iiicum.] 1D11AK ('Ujku, PtoL iii. 3. § 23), a people ofSnnnatia Kuropaea, whose position cannot be madeout from tl« indications given by Ptolemy. (Selia-farik. Sine. Alt. vol. i. p. 213.) [K. B. J.] I'DKIAS (Tfyidt), according to Stcphanus B.(«. r.), a town in Caria which had (• «-merly bornethe name of Chrysaoris. Herodotus (v. 118) de­scribes I he river Marsyas as flowing from a districtcalled Idriaa ; and it is conjectured that Stratoniceia,founded by Antiochus S>tor, was built on the site ofthe ancient town of Idriaa. (Coinp. Leake, AliaMinor, p. 23S ; see Laodicma.) [L. S.] lDU'BEDA ('liavttba, misspelt by Agalhemerus'IrSovfoAoa, ii. 9: Sierra dt Oca and Sierra delj*r*Hiu), a great mountain chain of IIi>pania,running ia a SK, direction from the mountains of the Cantabri to the Mediterranean, almost parallelto the Kltro, the basin of which it borders on theW. St ratio makes it also parallel to the Pyreneca,in conformity with his view of the direction of thatchain from X. to S. (Strab. iii. p. 161; Ptol. ii. 6.§21.) Its chief offsets were: — M. Cainls, nearBilbilis (Martial, i. 49, iv. 55), the Sai/TL's Mas-uakl'9 (Liv. xl. 39: probably the Sterro Molina\and, above all, M. OitosPKlfrA, which strikes off fromit to the S. long before it reaches the sea, and whichought perhaps rather to be regarded as its principalprolongation than as a mere branch. [P. S. J IDUMAEA ('ISuv/iaTa), the name of the countryinhabited by the descendants of Edom (or Esau),being, in fact, only the classical form of that ancientSemitic name. (Joseph. Ant ii. 1. § I.) It is other­wise called Mount Seir. (Gen. xxxii. 3, xxxvi. 8;l)eut ii. 5; Jath.ua, xxiv. 4.) It lay betweenMount Horeb and the southern border of Canaan(fieut. i. 2), extending apparently as far south asthe Gulf of A kola (l)eut. ii. 2—8), as indeed itaports, Ezion-geber, and Elnth, are expressly asaignedto the " land of Edom." (2 Cliron. viii. 17.) Thiscountry was inhabited in still more ancient times bythe Horims (Deut. ii. 12, 22), and derived its moreancient nanio from their patriarch Seir (Gen. xxxvi.20; comp. xiv. 6), as is properly maintained byIteland, against the fanciful conjecture of Joseph usand others. (Palaeitina, pp. 68, 69.) The Jewishhistorian extends the name Idumaea so far to thenorth as to comprehend under it great part of thesouth of Judaea; as when he says that the tribe ofSimeon received as their inheritance that part ofIdumaea which borders on Egypt and Arabia. (Ant.v. 1. § 22) He elsewhere calls Hebron the first city ofIdumaea, i.e. reckoning from the north. (B.J. iv. 9.§ 7.) From his time the name Idumaea disappearsfrom geographical descriptions, except as an hie*torical appellation of the country that was then calledGehalenc, or the southern desert (h Kara utayp-fpiav iprjuot, Euseb. Onom. «. t>. Ai'AdV), or Arabia.The historical records of the Idumaeans, properly socalled, are very scanty. Saul made war upon them;David subdued the whole country; and Solomonmade Elion-geber a naval station. (1 Sam. xir. 47,2 Sum. viii. 14; 1 Kingi, xi. 15, ix. 26.) TheKdumites, however, recovered their national inde­pendence under Joram, king of Judah (2 Kittgt,xiv. 7), and avenged themselves on the Jews inthe cruelties which they practised at the captureof Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. (Psalm*, cxxxvil.7.) It was probably during the Babylonish cap­tivity that they extended themselves as far northas Hebron, where they were attacked and subduedby Judas Maccabaeus. (1 Maccab. v. 65—68;Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 6.) It was on this accountthat the whole of the south of Palestine, aboutHebron, Gaza, and Eleutheropolis (Beit Jebrin),came to be designated Idumaea. (Joseph. B. J.iv. 9. § 7, c. Apian, ii. 9; S. Jerom. Comment, inObad. ver. 1.) Meanwhile, the ancient seats of thechildren of Edom had been invaded and occupied byanother tribe, the Xabatliarans, the descendant* ofthe Ishmaelite patriarch Nebaioth [Nabathau],under which name the country and its capital[Pktba] became famous among Greek and IEotnangeographers and historian*, on which acconnt theirdescription of the district u more appropriately givenunder that head. St. Jerome's brief but accuratenotice of its general features may here suffice: —"Omnia Australia regio ldumaeorum de Eleutbero­