OCR Output C. II.] 70 JERUSALEM. 163 would be affrighted and submit; for he had been informed,what was really true, that the people, who were fallen underthe power of the seditious and the robbers, were greatly de足sirous of peace; but being too weak to rise up against therest, they lay still. 2. Now, so long as he rode along the straight road whichled to the wall of the city, nobody appeared out of the gates;but when he went out of that road, and declined towards thetower Pesphinus, and led the band of horsemen obliquely,an immense number of the Jews leaped out suddenly at thetowers called the Women's Towers, through that gate whichwas over against the monuments of queen Helena, and in足tercepted his horse; and standing directly opposite to thosethat still ran along the road, hindered them from joiningthose that had declined out of it. They intercepted Titusalso, with a few others. Now it was here impossible for himto go forward, because all the places had trenches dug inthem from the wall to preserve the gardens round about, andwere full of gardens obliquely situated, and of many hedges;and to return back to his own men, he saw it was also im足possible, by reason of the multitude of the enemies that laybetween them; many of whom did not so much as know thatthe king was in any danger,1 but supposed him still amongthem. So he perceived that his preservation must be whollyowing to his own courage, and turned his horse about, andcried out aloud to those that were about him to follow him, 1 We may here note, that Titus is here called a king and Carsar, by Jose-phus, even while he was no more than the emperor's son and general of theKoman army, and his father Vespasian was still alive; just as the NewTestament says Archelaus reigned, or seas king. Matt. ii. 22, though he wasproperly no more than ethnarch, as Josephus assures us, Antiq. B. xvii.ch. xi. sect. 4 ; Of the War, B. ii. ch. vi. sect. 3. Thus also the Jews calledthe Roman emperors kings, though they never took that title to themselves:We have no king but Caesar, John xix. 15; Submit to the king us supreme,1 Pet. ii. 13, 17; which is also the language of the Apostolical Constitu足tions, ii. 11, 34; iv. 13; v. 19; vi. 2, 25; vii. 16; viii. 2, 13; and elsewherein the New Testament, John xix. 15; Matt. x. 18; xvii. 25; 1 Tim. ii. 2;and in Josephus also; although I suspect Josephus particularly esteemedTitus as joint king with his father, ever since his divine dreams that declaredthem both such, B. iii. ch. viii. sect. 9.