OCR Output 112 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. then Dathan and Abiram, and On, the son ofPeleth would have it. For these are the old­est men of that tribe, and potent on accountof their great wealth also." Now Corah, when he said this, wished toappear careful of the public welfare; but inreality, he was endeavouring to procure tohave that dignity transferred by the multitudeto himself. And thus did he, out oi' a malig­nant design, but with plausible words, dis­course to those of his own tribe. And whenthese words did gradually spread to more ofthe people, and the hearers still added towhat tended to the scandals that were castupon Aaron, the whole army was full of them.Now of those that conspired with Corah, therewere two hundred and fifty of the principalmen, who were eager to have the priesthoodtaken from Moses's brother, and to bring himto disgrace. Nay, the multitude themselveswere provoked to be seditious, and attemptedto stone Moses: and gathered themselvestogether after an indecent manner, with con­fusion and disorder. And now they all werein a tumultuous manner, raising a clamour be­fore the tabernacle of God, to prosecute thetyrant, and to relieve the multitude from theirslavery under him, who, under colour of theDivine commands, laid violent injunctionsupon them. For that had it been God whochose *one that was to perform the office of apriest, he would have raised a worthy personto that dignity, and would not have producedsuch an one as was inferior to many others,nor have given him that office: and that incase he had judged it fit to bestow it onAaron, he would have permitted the multi­tude to bestow it, and not have left it to bebestowed by his own brother. Now although Moses had long foreseen thiscalumny of Corah's, and had seen that thepeople were irritated, yet was he not alarmedat it. But being of good courage, because hehad given them good advice about their af­fairs: and knowing that his brother had beenmade partaker of the priesthood at the com­mand of God, and not by his own favour tohim, he came to the assembly: and, as forthe multitude, he said not a word to them,but spake as loud to Corah as he could; and * Reland here observes, that although our Bibles saylittle or nothing of these riches of Corah, yet both the being very eloquent, and having this naturaltalent among others, that he could greatlymove the multitude with his discourses; hesaid, "O Corah, both thou, and all those withthee, (pointing to the two hundred and fiftymen,) seem to be worthy of this honour. Nordo I pretend, but that this whole companymay be worthy of the like dignity: althoughthey may not be so rich, or so great, as youare. Nor have I given this office to my bro­ther, because he excelled others in riches;for thou exceedest* us both in the greatnessof thy wealth: nor indeed because he was ofan eminent family; for God, by giving us thesame common ancestor, has made our familiesequal: nay, nor was it out of brotherly affec­tion, which another might yet have justlydone. For certainly, unless I had bestowedthis honour out of regard to God, and to hi&laws, I had not passed by myself, and given itto another; as having a closer intimacy withmyself, than I have with him. For, surely, itwould not be a wise thing for me to exposemyself to the dangers of offending, and to be­stow the happy employment on this accountupon another. But I am above such practi­ces: nor would God have overlooked thismatter, and seen himself thus despised: norwould he have suffered you to be ignorant ofwhat you were to do, in order to please him.But he hath himself chosen one that is to per­form that sacred office to him; and therebyfreed us from that care. So that it was not athing that I pretended to give; but only ac­cording to the determination of God: I there­fore propose it still to be contended for bysuch as please to put in for it; only desiringthat he who has already been preferred, andhas already obtained it, may be allowed nowalso to offer himself a candidate. He pre­fers your peace, and your living without sedi­tion, to this honourable employment; althoughin truth, it was with your approbation that heobtained it. For though God were the donor,yet do we not offend when we think fit to ac­cept of it with your good will. Yet would ithave been an instance of impiety, not to havetaken that honourable employment when heoffered it: nay, it had been exceedingly un­reasonable, when God had thought fit any Jews and Mahometans, as well as Josephus, are full of it.