OCR Output 104 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. messengers through the country, and gaveorder that they should have a remission oftheir labours, and should keep a festival manydays, on account of his kingdom. In likemanner did Vashti,* the queen, gather herguests together, and made them a feast in thepalace. Now the king was desirous to shewher, who exceeded all other women in beauty,to those that feasted with him; and sent someto command her to come to his feast. Butshe, out of regard to the laws of the Persians,which forbid the wives to be seen by stran­gers, did not go to the king. And though herepeatedly sent the eunuchs to her, she didnevertheless refuse to come: till the kingwas so much irritated, that he broke up theentertainment, and rose up, and called forthose seven, who had the interpretation ofthe laws committed to them, and accused hiswife, and said, that he had been affronted byher; because when she was frequently calledby him to his feast, she did not obey him.He therefore gave order, that they should in­form him what could be done by the lawagainst her. So one of them, whose namewas Memucan, said, that this affront was of­fered not to him alone, but to all the Persians;who were in danger of leading their lives veryill with their wives, if they must be despisedby them. For that none of their wives wouldhave any reverence for their husbands, ifthey had such an example of arrogance inthe queen towards him who ruled over all.Accordingly he exhorted him to punish herwho had been guilty of so great an affrontto him, after a severe manner; and when hehad so done, to publish to the nations whathad been decreed about the queen. So the resolution was to put Vashti away, and togive her dignity to another woman.f But the king having been fond of her, didnot well bear a separation: and yet by thelaw he could not admit of a reconciliation.So he was under trouble as not having it inhis power to do what he desired. But whenhis friends saw him so uneasy, they advisedhim to cast the memory of his wife, and hislove for her out of his mind; and to sendabroad over all the habitable earth, and tosearch out for comely virgins, and to take herwhom he should best like, for his wife, be­cause his passion for his former wife wouldbe quenched by the introduction of another;and the kindness he had for Vashti would bewithdrawn from her, and be placed on herthat was with him. Accordingly he was per­suaded to follow this advice; and gave orderto certain persons to choose out of the vir­gins that were in his kingdom, those thatwere esteemed to be most comely. So whena great number of these virgins were gather­ed together, there was found a damsel inBabylon, whose parents were dead, and shewas brought with her uncle Mordecai; whowas of the tribe of Benjamin, and one of theprincipal persons among the Jews. Now itproved that this damsel, whose name wasEsther, was the most beautiful of all the rest;and that the grace of her countenance drewthe eyes of the spectators principally uponher. So she was committed to one of theeunuchs, to take the care of her, and shewas provided with odours, and with costlyointments, such as her body required to beanointed withal.J And this was used for six.months by the virgins; who were in number * It has been a great inquiry among the learned, whothis Vashti was. Those who make the Ahasuerus in Scrip­ture to be Darius the son of Hystaspes, suppose that shewas Atossa the daughter of Cyrus, who was first marriedto Cambyses, her own brother, then to the Magian, whowould have passed for Smerdis, and last of all to Darius.Others suppose, that she was Ahasnerus's own sister, be-ca'i*e the Persians, in those days, made no scruple in thesekind of marriages; though there is much more reason tothink, that before her marriage, there had been such acollection of virgins made for the use of. the king, as wasbefore Esther's, (this is implied in chap. ii. 19.) and thathaving the good fortune then of obtaining the preferencein the king's esteem, she was created queen, but beingperhaps a woman of no high descent, her family extrac­tion, for that reason, might be concealei'. CalmeCs Die-tionary, under the name. B. t Esther ii. 3, 4. j The reason is assigned in the following verse, fortheir being kept so long in this course, viz. that for sixmonths they might be anointed with the oil of myrrh,which, besides the fragrancy of its smell, was good tomake the skin soft and smooth, and clear it from all man­ner of scurf; and for six more with sweet odours, whichin these hot countries, were necessary to take away all illscents, and, as some think, to make the body more vigor­ous. But besides this, there might be something of statein making those vassals, (for such they were accounted,)wait, before they were admitted to the honour of theking's bed; and something of precaution too, in keepingthem recluse for so long a time, that the king might besatisfied, that he was not imposed upon by a child begot­ten by any other man. Patrick's Commentary, and PooVtAnnotations on Esther ii. 12. B.