OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 18J guilt of Constantine was no longer remembered; thedespair and death of that valiant officer were secretly im­puted to the revenge of Antonina; and each of his col­leagues, conscious of the same rapine, was apprehensiveof the same fate. The fear of a common enemy sus­pended the effects of their envy and discontent: but inthe confidence of approaching victory, they instigated apowerful rival to oppose the conqueror of Rome andAfrica. From the domestic service of the palace, and The eunuchthe administration of the private revenue, Narses the eu­nuch was suddenly exalted to the head of an army; andthe spirit of a hero, who afterward equalled the meritand glory of Belisarius, served only to perplex the oper­ations of the Gothic war. To his prudent counsels, therelief of Rimini was ascribed by the leaders of the discon­tented faction, who exhorted Narses to assume an inde­pendent and separate command. The epistle of Justi- .nian had indeed enjoined his obedience to the general;but the dangerous exception, " as far as may be advan­tageous to the public service," reserved some freedom ofjudgment to the discreet favourite,' who had so lately de­parted from the sacred and familiar conversation of hissovereign. In the exercise of this doubtful right, theeunuch perpetually dissented from the opinions of Beli­sarius; and, after yielding with reluctance to the siege ofUrbino, he deserted his colleague in the night, andmarched away to the conquest of the iEmilian province.The fierce and formidable bands of the Heruli were at­tached to the person of Narses ;d ten thousand Romansand confederates were persuaded to march under hisbanners; every malecontent embraced the fair opportu­nity of revenging his private or imaginary wrongs; and or caution; in the Anecdotes, (c. 7.) with malevolence or freedom; but Marcellinus,or rather his continuator, (in Chron.) casts a shade of premeditated assassination overthe death of Constantine. He had performed good service at Rome and Spoleto;(Prooop. Gotb. lib. 1. o. 7. 14.) but Alemannus confounds him with a Constantianuscomes stabuli. * They refused to serve after his departure; sold their captives and cattle to theGoths; and swore never to fight against them. Procopitis introduces a curious di­gression on the manners and adventures of this wandering nation, a part of whomfinally emigrated to Thtile or Scandinavia. (Goth. lib. 2. e. 14, IS.)-'