OCR Output 162 LIVY. harassed, enjoy at length some repose: let Africa, inits turn, feel fire and sword. Let the Roman camppress on the very gates of Carthage, rather than thatwe, a second time, should behold from our walls therampart of that of the enemy. Let Africa, in short,be the seat of the remainder of the war: thither beremoved terror and flight, devastation of lands, revoltof allies, and all the other calamities with which, forfourteen years, we have been afflicted. It is sufficientthat I have delivered my sentiments on those matterswhich affect the state, the dispute in which we are in­volved, and the provinces under consideration: mydiscourse would be tedious and unsuitable to this au­dience, if, as Quintus Fabius has depreciated my ser­vices in Spain, I should, on the other hand, endeavorin like manner to disparage his glory, and extol myown. , I shall do neither, conscript fathers; but youngas I am, I will show that I excel that sage, if in no­thing else, yet certainly in modesty and temperance oflanguage. Such has been my life and conduct, that Ican, in silence, rest perfectly satisfied with that cha­racter which your own judgments have formed of me.' 45. Scipio was heard the less favorably on accountof a rumor which prevailed, that if he did not carrythe point in the senate, of having Africa decreed tohim as his province, he was determined immediatelyto submit the business to public decision. ThereforeQuintus Fulvius, who had been consul four times, andcensor, demanded of the consul, that he should declareopenly in the senate, whether ' he meant to abide bythe determination of the fathers in regard to the pro­vinces, or whether he intended to bring the matter be­fore the people.' Scipio having answered, that hewould act in such a manner as he should deem mostadvantageous to the state, Fulvius replied, ' I did notask the question through ignorance of what you wouldanswer, and what you intended to do. It is thus plainlyseen, that you are rather sounding the senate, thanconsulting them; and have an order ready to be pro­posed to the people, if we do not immediately decree