OCR Output Chap. XXIV. WARS or THE JEWS. . fences, if they would amend for the time to come. But theyrefuted the calumnies that had been raised of them, and said theywere false, and alleged that their actions were sufficient for theirvindication, and said withal, that he himself ought to shut hisears against such tales, and not to be too easy in believing them,for that there would never be wanting those that would tell liesto their disadvantage, as long as any would give ear to them. 5. When they had thus soon pacified him, as being their fa­ther, they got clear of the present fear they were in. Yet didthey see occasion for sorrow in some time afterward; for theyknew that Salome, as well as their uncle Pheroras, were theirenemies; who were both of them heavy and severe persons, andespecially Pheroras, who was a partner with Herod in all the af­fairs of the kingdom, excepting his diadem. He had also anhundred talents of his own revenue, and enjoyed the advantageof all the land beyond Jordan, which he had received as a giftfrom his brother, who had asked of Caesar to make him a te--trarch, as he was made accordingly. Herod had also given hima wife out of the royal family, who was no other than his owawife's sister, and after her death had solemnly espoused to himhis own eldest daughter, with a dowry of three hundred talents ;but Pheroras refused to consummate this royal marriage outof his affection to a maid servant of his. Upon whkh accountHerod was very angry, and gave that daughter in marriage toa brother's son of his [Joseph], who was slain afterward by theParthians; but in some time he laid aside his anger against Phe­roras, and pardoned him, as one cot able to overcome his fool­ish passion for the maid-servant. 6. Nay, Pheroras had been accused long before, while thequeen [Mariamne] was alive, as if he were in a plot to poisonHerod; and there came then so great a number of informers,that Herod himself, though he was an exceeding lover of hiabrethren, was brought to believe what was said, and to be afraidof it also: and when he had brought many of those that wereunder suspicion to the torture, he came at last to Pheroras'sownfriends; none of which did openly confess the crime, but theyowned that he had made preparation to take her whom he loved,and ran away to the Parthians. Costobarus also, the husband ofSalome, to whom the king had given her in marriage, after herformer husband had been put to death for adultery, was instru­mental in bringing about this contrivance and flight of his. Nordid Salome escape all calumny upon herself; for her brotherPheroras accused her, that she had made an agreement to marrySilleus, the procurator of Obodas, king of Arabia, who was atbitter enmity with Herod; but when she was convicted of this, and