OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 87 CHAP. XLVIII. I Plan of the remainder of the work.—Succession and characters ofthe Greek emperors of Constantinople, from the time of Hera-clius to the Latin conquest. Defects of I HAVE now deduced from Trajan to Constan-»nSfe tme, ^rom Constantine to Heraclius, the regularkiatory. series of the Roman emperors; and faithfullyexposed the prosperous and adverse fortunes of theirreigns. Five centuries of the decline and fall of the em­pire have already elapsed; but a period of more thaneight hundred years still separates me from the term ofmy labours, the taking of Constantinople by the Turks.Should I persevere in the same course, should I ob­serve the same measure, a prolix and slender threadwould be spun through many a volume, nor would thepatient reader find an adequate reward of instructionor amusement. At every step as we sink deeper in thedecline and fall of the eastern empire, the annals ofeach succeeding reign would impose a more ungratefuland melancholy task. These annals must continue torepeat a tedious and uniform tale of weakness and mi­sery; the natural connexion of causes and events wouldbe brpken by frequent and hasty transitions, and a mi­nute accumulation of circumstances must destroy thelight and effect of those general pictures which com­pose the use and ornament of a remote history. Fromthe time of Heraclius, the Byzantine theatre is con­tracted and darkened: the line of empire, which hadbeen defined by the laws of Justinian and the arms of anisme d'/Ethiopie et d'Armenie, La Haye, 1759, in duodecimo), have drawnthrit principal materials from the Jesuits, especially from the General History ofTellez, published in Portuguese at Conimbra, 1660. We might be surprised attheir frankness; bat their most flagitious vice, the spirit of persecution, was, intheir eyes, the most meritorious virtue. Ludolphus possessed some, though aslight, advantage from the ^Ethiopia language, and the personal conversation ofGregory, a free-spirited Abyssinian priest, whom he invited from Rome to thecourt of Saxe-Gotha. See the Theologia jEthiopica of Gregory, in Fabricius, LuxSvsngelii, p. 716—734.