OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 401 him, touching upon nothing but what tended to his glory, andopenly excusing many of his notorious crimes, and very diligentlyconcealing them. And as he was desirous to put handsomecolours on the death of Mariamne, and her sons, which werebarbarous actions in the king, he tells falsehoods about the in­continence of Mariamne, and the treacherous designs of his sonsupon him,; and thus he proceeded in his whole work, making apompous encomium upon what just actions he had done, but ear­nestly apologizing for his unjust ones. Indeed, a man, as I said,may have a great deal to say by way of excuse for Nicolaus; forhe did not so properly write this as a history for others, assomewhat that might be subservient to the king himself. Asfor ourselves, who come of a family nearly allied to the Asamoneankings, and on that account have an honourable place, which is thepriesthood, we think it indecent to say any thing that is falseabout them, and accordingly we have described their actions afteran unblemished and upright manner. And although we rever­ence many of Herod's posterity, who still reign, yet do we payA greater regard to truth than to them, and this though it some­times happens that we incur their displeasure by so doing. 2. And indeed Herod's troubles in his family seemed to beaugmented by reason of this attempt he made upon David's se­pulchre, whether divine vengeance increased the calamities he layunder, in order to render them incurable, or whether fortunemade an assault upon him in those cases, wherein the seasonable-ness of the cause made it strongly believed that.the calamitiescame upon him for his impiety; for the tumult was like a civil.war in his palace, and their hatred towards one another waslike that where each one strove to exceed another in calumnies.However, Antipater used stratagems perpetually against hisbrethren, and that very cunningly: While abroad he loaded themwith accusations, but still took upon him frequently to apologizefor them, that this apparent benevolence to them might make himbe believed, and forward his attempts against them, by which meanshe, after various manners, circumvented his father, who believedthat all he did was for his preservation. Herod also recommend­ed Ptolemy, who was a great director of the . affairs of his king­dom, to Antipater; and consulted with his mother about the pub­lic affairs also. And indeed these were all in all, and did whatthey pleased, and made the king angry against any other persons,as they thought it might be to their own advantage: but still thesons of Mariamne were in a worse and worse condition perpetu­ally, and while they were thrust out, and set in a more dishonour­able rank, who yet by birth were the most noble, they could notbear the dishonour. And for the women; Glaphyra, Alexan­der's wife, the daughter of Archelaus, hated Salome, both be­