OCR Output IS8 . ASTIOPITIES OF THE JEWS.' Book XX. put on his head a diadem for one year. And when Alexander:had been both king and high-priest twenty-seven years, he de­parted this life, and permitted his wife Alexandra to appoint himthat should be high-priest ; so she gave the high-priesthood toHyrcanus, but retained the kingdom herself nine years, and thendeparted this life. The like duration [and no longer] did herson Hytcanus enjoy the high-priesthood ; for after her death hisbrother Aristobulus fought against him, and beat him, and de- o O ' * prived him of his principality ; and he did himself both reign,and perform the office of high-priest to God. But when he hadreigned three years, and as many months, Pompey came uponhim, and not only took the city of Jerusalem by force, but puthim and his- children in bonds, and sent them to Rome. He alsarestored the high-priesthood to Hyrcanus, and made him governorof the nation, but forbade him to wear a diadem. This Hyrca­nus ruled, besides his first nine years, twenty-four years more,when Barzapharnes and Parcorus, the generals of the Parthians,passed over Euphrates, and fought with Hyrcanus, and took himalive, and made Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, king ; and ' when he had reigned three years and three months, Sosius andHerod besieged him, and took him, when Antony had him brought • to Antioch, and slain there. Herod was then made king by theRomans, but did no longer appoint high-priests out of the fami­ly of Asamoneus •, but made certain men to be so that were ofno eminent families, but barely of those that were priests, except­ing that he gave that dignity to Aristobulus; for when he hadmade this Aristobulus, the grandson of that Hyrcanus who wasthen taken by the Parthians, and had taken his sister Mariamneto wife, he thereby aimed to win the good-will of the people,who had a kind remembrance of Hyrcanus [his grandfather].Yet did he afterward, out of his fear lest they should all bendtheir inclinations to Aristobulus, put him to death, and that bycontriving how to have him suffocated, as he was swimming atJericho, "as we have already related that matter; but after thisman he never intrusted the'high-priesthood to the posterity ofthe sons of Asamoneus. Archelaus also, Herod's son,.did likehis father in the appointment of the high-priests, as did the Ro­mans also, who took the government over the Jews into theirhands afterward. Accordingly the number of the high-priests,from the days of Herod until the day when Titus took the tem­ple and the city, and burnt them, were in all twenty-eight; thetime also "that belonged to them was an hundred and seven years.Some of these were the political governors of the people underthe reign of Herod, and under the reign of Archelaus his son^although, after their death, the government became an aristocra­