OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 57 The popular dissensions, founded on the most seriousinterest, or holy pretence, have scarcely equalled the ob­stinacy of this wanton discord, which invaded the peaceof families, divided friends and brothers, and temptedthe female sex, though seldom seen in the circus, to es­pouse the inclinations of their lovers, or to contradictthe wishes of their husbands. Every law, either humanor divine, was trampled under foot, and as long as theparty was successful, its deluded followers appeared care­less of private distress or public calamity. The licence,without the freedom, of democracy, was revived at An-tioch and Constantinople, and the support of a factionbecame necessary to every candidate for civil or ecclesi­astical honours. A secret attachment to the family orsect of Anastasius was imputed to the greens; the blueswere zealously devoted to the cause of orthodoxy andJustinian,2 and their grateful patron protected, above Justinianfive years, the disorders of a faction, whose seasonable hiuel" *tumults overawed the palace, the senate, and the capi­tals of the east. Insolent with royal favour, the bluesaffected to strike terror by a peculiar and barbaric dress,the long hair of the Huns, their close sleeves and am­ple garments, a lofty step, and a sonorous voice. In theday they concealed their two-edged poignards, but inthe night they boldly assembled in arms, and in nume­rous bands, prepared for every act of violence and rapine.Their adversaries of the green faction, or even inoffen­sive citizens, were stripped and often murdered by thesenocturnal robbers, and it became dangerous to wear anygold buttons or girdles, or to appear at a late hour in thestreets of a peaceful capital. A daring spirit, rising withimpunity, proceeded to violate the safeguard of privatehouses; and fire was employed to facilitate the attack,or to conceal the crimes of those factious rioters. No (p. 26.) has quoted a fine passage from Gregory Nazianzen, which proves the in­veteracy of the evil. 1 The partiality of Jastinian for the bines (Anecdot. c. 7.) is attested by Evagrius,(Hist. Eceles. lib. 4. c. 32.) John Malala, (tom. 2. p. 138,139.) especially for An-tioch; and Theophanes. (p. 142.) VOL. V. F