OCR Output 186 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. imagined that the Athenians with their twenty ships durst pre­sume to attack them who had forty-seven. Yet when they sawthem steering the same course on the opposite shore, they keptfirst along their own coast, and afterwards from Patrae ofAchaia stretched over to the opposite side in order to make forAcarnania. Butnow again they descried them standing direct­ly against them from Chalcis and the river Evenus, and foundthey had observed their anchoring the night before. Thus arethey compelled to come to an engagement in the midst of theopen sea*. The ships of every state were under the com­mand of those who had been appointed by their principals :Over the Corinthians were Machon, Isocrates, and Agathar-chidas. The Peloponnesians drew up their ships in form of acircle, as large as they possibly could, without leaving open apassage for the ships of the enemy. The heads of the shipsstood to sea, the sterns were turned inwards. Within wereranged the small vessels that attended the fleet and five shipsthat were prime sailers, which were to start out at narrowpassages, wherever the enemy should begin the attack. TheAthenians drawing up their ships in a line, and sailing quiteround them, brushed along by them in their passage, andmaking successive feints of engaging, forced them to drawinto a smaller compass. Phormio had beforehand givenstrict orders not to engage without the signal: for he hopedthe enemy could not long preserve that order of battle like • Phormio was watching to catch them in the open sea, it tv ti/f u^af <'«,as Thucydidea words it above. They were now out of the gulf, stretchingacross the sea, in the midst of which Phormio came up to them, and en­gaged, *ara aurti r x-oftftit. The sea without the capes that form themouth of the gulf of Crissa, is indeed a narrow sea, or ttiptfiiir, but thenit was open sea in regard to the gulf within the capes, and gave Phormioall the advantages which more expert seamen knew how to use. As thePeloponnesian Heet stood out from Petra in Achaia, and the Athenian fromChalcis in ittolia, the situation of those two places easily guides to theplace of the engagement. Phormio got a deal of honour by this action,which Plutarch, in his piece about the glory of the Athenians, reckons upamongst the most remarkable exploits related by our historian.