OCR Output OF ROME. cc foldiers retained the fame abilities after the expul- BOOK"fion of the decemvirs, which they had poffefied, ni. __,"before their appointment; and that the valour of Y.R. 50*."the Roman people was not diminifhed by the B.c. **'•"eftablifhment oflawswhich equalized their rights."After fpeaking to this purpofe among the battalionsof the infantry, he flew from thence to the cavalry."Come on, young men," faid he, "fhew that"ye excel the infantry in valour, as ye excel them"in honour and in rank. The infantry at the firft"onfet have made the enemy give way; before they"recover the fhock, give the reins to your horfes,"and drive them out of the field; they will not"fupport your charge, and even now, they rather"hefitate than refift." They fpurred on theirhorfes, and drove furioufly againft the enemy, whowere already difordered by. the attack of the foot;and after they had broken through the ranks, andpufhed on to the rear of their line, a part of them,wheeling round in the open fpace, cut off the ene­my's retreat to their camp, towards which the greaternumber of them now began to fly on all fides j and,by riding on before them, compelled them, throughfear, to take another courfe. The line of infantry,and the conful himfelf, with the main body of the .army, rufhed into the camp, and made themfelvesmafters of it, killing a vaft number, and gettingpofiefllon of booty ftill greater in proportion. Thenews of this victory was carried both to the city, andto the other camp in the country of the Sabines: in,the city it excited only general joy; in the camp itfired the minds of the foldiers with emulation of theglory their fellow foldiers had acquired. Hbratiushad already, by inuring them to excurfions, and try­ing them in fkirmiLhes, accuftomed them, rather toplace confidence in themfelves, than to think of theignominy which had been incurred under the com­mand of the decemvirs; and thefe flight engage­ments had ftrengthened their hopes with regard to a general