OCR Output an. 1532.] 73 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. king of Egypt was in disorder, upon the fearinto which he reasoned himself, lest his peopleshould be destroyed, and that the manner ofthis death was also reproachful. So that hewas forced in part to recover himself from hiswicked temper to a sounder mind; for hegave leave for the Hebrews themselves todepart. But when the plague thereuponceased, he thought it proper to require, thatthey should leave their children and wivesbehind them, as pledges of their return;whereby he provoked God to be more vehe­mently angry at him; as if he thought to im­pose on his providence; and as if it were onlyMoses, and not God who punished the Egyp­tians for the sake of the Hebrews. For hefilled that country full of various sorts of pes­tilential creatures,* with their various pro­perties; such, indeed, as never came into thesight of men before. By their means the men perished themselves, and the land was desti­tute of husbandmen for its cultivation: but ifany thing escaped destruction from them, itwas killed by a distemper, which the menunderwent also. Pharaoh did not yet yield to the will ofGod; but while he gave leave to the husbandsto take their wives with them, he insisted thatthe children should be left behind; Godtherefore resolved to punish his wickednesswith several sorts of calamities, and thoseworse than the foregoing, which had yet sogenerally afflicted them; but their bodies hadterrible boils,f breaking forth with blains;while they were already inwardly consumed;and a great part of the Egyptians perished inthis manner. But when the king was notbrought to reason by this plague, hail wassent down from heaven ;J and such hail as theclimate of Egypt had never suffered be­ lice, to signify gnats. The Septuagint call them Kriviireg;but what kind of creatures these were, is not so certainlyknown. Others would have them to be a new species ofanimals, called analogically by an old name; or if theywere lice, that they were such as had wings, and cruellystung and ulcerated the Egyptians. But upon the suppo­sition that they were no worse than common lice, this wasplague enough to the Egyptians, who affected neatness tosuch a degree, that they bathed themselves every day, andsome of them frequently shaved their bodies all over, forfear of such vermin. Those who pretended that theselice were a new species, make this a reason why the magi­cians could not counterfeit this miracle, because, thoughthey could easily provide the serpents, the blood, and thefrogs, yet this sort of animal was now no where to be had;and therefore, as the organs of sight are more liable to beimposed upon than those of feeling, the magicians mightimpose upon the king, and the other spectators, with fan­tastical blood and frogs, but visionary lice could not vexand torment the body; so that now it was time for the en­chanters to desist, and to own their inability to mimic Mosesany farther. But supposing, that what the magicians did,in the three former miracles, was not illusion and imposi­tion upon the senses, but reality, the true reason why theycould proceed no farther was, that God Almighty had laidbis restraint and prohibition upon the evil spirits, who hadhitherto been subservient to them, that they might notassist them any longer. Le Clerc's Commentary; and jBi'4-liotheca Bibl. in locum. B. * The word Arab, which we render fly in general, is bythe Septuagint called Kvvofwia, i. e. dog-fly, from its biting;for it fastens its teeth so deep in the flesh, and sticks sovery close, that it oftentimes makes cattle run mad; andthe congruity of this plague seems to be greater, becauseone of the Egyptian deities, which they called Anubis, borethe head of a dog. The Psalmist indeed tells us, that Godsent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them.Ps. Ixxviii. 45. So that according to him, it was not oneparticular kind, but all sorts of flies mingled together inone prodigious swarm or conflux. Some translate it a mixture of beasts, which they suppose went into Egypt toinfest and destroy the country: but this is not so probablea construction, because the punishments hitherto inflictedwere nauseous and troublesome, rather than mortal;though this plague of infinite numbers of small tormentorsis so great aone, that God calls it his army, Joel ii. 25, andthe Greeks thought fit fas Pliny, 1. 20. c. 28. tells us) tohave a god to deliver them from it, under the style ofMyiagros, or Myiodes, even as Belzebub signifies the Lordor God of flies. Bochart, Hier. part 2. B. t The Hebrew word Sliechin properly signifies an in­flammation, which first makes a tumor or boil, (as wetranslate it,) and thence turns a grievous ulcer. Dr.Lightfoot indeed observes, that in the book of Job, chap,ii. 7, 8. where the same word occurs, it signifies only aburning itch, or an inflamed scab; an intolerable dry itch,which Job could not scratch off with his nails, and wastherefore forced to make use of a potsherd: but then heconfesses that thisShechin here spoken of, was more ran­corous than that, having blains and ulcers that broke outwith it, which Job's had not. So that the Egyptians, accor­ding to this, must have been vexed with a triple punish­ment at once, (a punishment fitly calculated for the morti­fication of a delicate and a voluptuous people,) aking boils,nauseous ulcers, and a burning itch; and to this that com­munication of Moses to the people, in case they proveddisobedient, does, without all peradventure, allude. TheLord mill smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with theemcrods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thoucanst not be healed. Deut. xxviii. 27. B. I This infection was the more terrible in Egypt, be­cause according to the account of Herodotus, (1. 3. c. 10.)a very rare thing it was to see any rain, and much moreany bail, in that climate: and accordingly he mentions itas a kind of prodigy, that in the reign of Psammenitus,there happened to be a shower in Thebes, which wasnever known before in the memory of man, nor ever after,to the age wherein our author wrote. The Psalmist hasgiven us a very poetic description of this judgment: Hedestroyed the vines with haU, and the sycamore trees with