OCR Output Ixxxiv NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. [i2oJ Lactantius, de Mortibus Persecutorum, c.3, 4. After celebrating the felicity and increase ofthe church, under a long succession of good princes:he adds, u Extitit post annos plurimos, execrabileanimal, Decius, qui vexaret Ecclesiam." [121] Eufeb. 1. vi. c. 39. Cyprian Epistol. 55.The fee of Rome remained vacant from the martyr­dom of Fabianus, to the zoth of January, A. D.250, till the election of Cornelius, the 4th of June,A. D. 251. Deciu3 had probably left Rome, sincehe was killed before the end of that year. [122] Euseb. 1. vii. c. rc. Mostieim (p, 548.)has very clearly (hewn, that the Præfect Macrianus,and the Egyptian Magui, are one and the fameperson. [123] Eusebius (1. vii. c. 13.) gives us a Greekversion of this Latin edict, which seems to havebeen very concise. By another edict, he directed,that the Cacmtttria should be restored to the Chris­tians. [124] Euseb. 1. vii. c. 30. Lactantius de M. P.«. 6. Hieronym. in Chron. p. 177. Orosius, 1. vii.c. 23. Their language is in general so ambiguousand incorrect, that we are at a loss to determinehow far Aurelian had carried his intentions beforehe was assassinated. Most of the moderns (exceptDodwell, Dissertat. Cyprian, xi. 64.) have seizedthe occasion of gaining a few extraordinary martyrs. [125] Paul was better pleased with the title ofDu-tmariui, than with that of bishop. The Ducenariuswas an imperial procurator, so called from his salaryof two hundred Sejitrtia, or 1,600 1. a year. (SeeSalmasius ad Hist. August, p. 124.) Some criticssuppose, that the bilhop of Antioch had actuallyobtained such an office from Zcnobia, while othersconsider it only as a figurative expression of hispomp and insolence. [126] Simony was not unknown in those times;and the clergy sometimes bought what they intend-ed to sell. It appears that the bishopric os Car­thage was purchased by a wealthy matron, namedLucilla, for her servant Majorinus. The price was400 Folles. (Monument. Antiq. ad calcem Optati,oj: p. 263.) Every Folliscontained iz; pieces of silver,and the whjole sum may be computed at about2,400 1. [127] If we are desirous of extenuating the vicesof Paul, we mull suspect the assembled bishops of theEast of publilhing the most malicious calumnies in acircular epistle, addressed to all the churches of theempire (ap. Euseb. 1. vii. c. 30). [128] His heresy (like those of Noetus and Sa-bcllius, in the fame century) tended to confound themysterious distinction of the divine persons. SeeMostieim, p. 702, &c. [129] Euseb. Hist. Ecclesiast. 1. vii. c. 30. Weare entirely indebted to him for the curious story ofPaul of Samofota. [i3oJ The Æra of Martyrs, which is still in useamong the Copts and the Abyssinians, must be rec­koned from the 29th of August, A. D- 2-4; as thebeginning of the Egyptian year was nineteen daysearlier than the real accession of Diocletian. SeeDissertation preliminaire a l'Art de verifier lesDates*. [131] The expression of Lactantius (de M. P.c. 15.) "sacrificio pollui coegit," implies theirantecedent conversion to the faith; but does not seento justify the assertion of Mostieim (p, 91-'.), thatthey had been privately baptised. [132] M. deTillemont(MemoiresEcclesiasliques,torn. v. parti, p. 11, 12.) has quoted from theSpicilegium of Dom Luc d'Acheri, a very curiousinstruction which bilhop Theonas composed for theuse of Lucian. [133] Lactantius de M. P. c. 10.. [134] Euscbius Hist. Ecclesiast. I. viii. c. 1. Thereader, who consults the original will not accuse meof heightening the picture. Eusebius was aboutsixteen years of age, at the accession of the empe.orDiocletian. f 13 5.3 We might quote, among a great numberof instances, the mysterious worship of Mithras,and the Taurobolia; the latter of which becamefashionable in the time of the Antonines (See aDissertation of M. de Boze, in the Memoires tiel'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. ii. p. 443.}.The romance of Apulcius is as full of devotion asof satire. [136] Thfr impostor Alexander very stronglyrecommended the oracle of Trcphonius at Mallei, and