OCR Output 452 FLAVIUSJOSEPHCS [b. II. their contempt of matrimony ? And why do not the Eleansand Thcbans abolish that unnatural and impudent lust, whichmakes them lie with males ? For they will not show a suffi­cient sign of their repentance of what they of old thought tobe very excellent, and very advantageous in their practices,unless they entirely avoid all such actions for the time tocome: nay, such things are inserted into the body of theirlaws, and had once such a power among the Greeks, that theyascribed these sodomitical practices to the gods themselves asa part of their good character ; and, indeed, it was accordingto the same manner that the gods married their own sisters.This the Greeks contrived as an apology for their own absurdand unnatural pleasures. 39. I omit to speak concerning punishments, and how manyways of escaping them the greatest part of the legislatorshave afforded malefactors, by ordaining that, for adulteries,fines in money should be allowed, and for corrupting [vir­gins '] they need only marry them :2 as also what excusesthey may have in denying the facts, if any one attempts toinquire into them; for amongst most other nations it is astudied art how men may transgress their laws. But no suchthing is permitted amongst us ; for though we be deprived ofour wealth, of our cities, or of the other advantages we have,our law continues immortal: nor can any Jew go so far fromhis own country, nor be so affrighted at the severest lord, asnot to be more affrighted at the law than at him. If, there­fore, this be the disposition we are under with regard to theexcellency of our laws, let our enemies make us this conces­sion, that our laws are most excellent; and if still they ima­gine, that though wc so firmly adhere to them, yet are they 1 Why Joscphus here should blame some heathen legislators when theyallowed so easy a composition for simple fornication, as an obligation tomarry the virgin that was corrupted, is hard to say, seeing he had himselftruly informed us that it was a law of the Jews, Antiq. B. iv. chap. viii.seet. 23, as it is the law of Christianity also; seo Iloreb Covenant, page CI.I am almost ready to suspect that for y«/i«(, we should hero read ya/iour, andthat corrupting wedlock, or other men's wives, is the crime for which theseheathens wickedly allowed this composition in money. 2 Or for corrupting other men's wives the same allowance.