OCR Output 542 PANOPEUS. 1WXN0X1A. nonian tribes. The fact Hint must Greek writerscalled them Paeonians, anil that Tacitus (Germ. 43)speaks of the Pannonian language as different fromthat of the German tribes, seems to favour the sup­position that they were a branch of the ThracianPaeonians, who had gradually spread to the bunksof the Danube and the confines of Italy. It musthowever be observed that Dion Cassias (xlix. 36),who knew the people well, denies that they werePaeonians. There can, however, be no doubt thatCeltic tribes also existed in the country, and in theearly part of the Roman empire Roman civilisationand the Latin language had made considerableprogress. They are described as a brave and war­like people, which, at the time when the Romans be­came acquainted with them, lived in a very lowstate of civilisation, and were notorious for cruelty andlove of bloodshed (Dion Cass. I.e.; Appian,/tfyr. 14;Strab. vii. p. 318; .Stat. Silo. iii. 13), as well as forfaithlessness and cunning (Tibull. iv. 1. 8). Hutsince their subjugation by the Romans, the civilisa­tion of the conquerors produced considerable changes(Veil. Fat. ii. 110); and even the religion of theI'annonians (some uf their gods, such as Latobias,La bums, Chart us, are mentioned in inscriptions)gave, way to that of the Romans, and Pannonian divi­nities were identified with Roman ones (Spart. Sever.15; Lamprid. Alex. 7). The Romanisation of thecountry was promoted and completed by the esta­blishment of colonies anil garrisons, so that at thetime of the migration of nations, the country wascompletely Romanised. The following art; the principal tribes noticed bythe ancients in Pannonia ; some of them, it must beobserved, arc decidedly Celtic. In Upper Pannoniawe meet with the Azali, Cytni, Boil, Cole- T1ANI, OSERIATKS, SeKRKTES, SeRRAPILLI, SaN- drizktes, Latobtci, and Varciani, and perhapsalso the Iapodes or Iapydes, the Colapiani andScordisci, though some of these latter may haveextended into Illyricum. In Lower Pannonia, wehave the Arauisci, Hercuniatae, Andi antes,Iasii, Breitct, Amantini (Asiantes), and Cor-nucates. Besides these, Pliny (iii. 2G) mentionsthe Arivates, Bei-GITEs, and Catari, of whom itis not known what districts they inhabited. Townsand villages existed in tlie country in great numberseven before its conquest by the Romans (Dion Cass.Iv. 2**; Jornand. Get 50); and Appian's statement(flfyr. 22), that the Pannonians lived only in vil­lages and isolated farms, probably applies only tosome remote and more rugged parts of the country.The most important towns were Vindobona, Car- NI NTL'M, SCARBANTIA, SABARIA, AllKABO, PaE- tovis, Siscia, Aemona, Naupoktus; and inLower Pannonia, BREOETIO, AqUINCI-M, McRSIA,Ciralae, Acimincum, Taurunum, and Sihmium. The history of Pannonia previous to its conquestby the Romans, is little known. We learn fromJustin (xxiv. 4, xxxii. 3, 12) that some Celtictribes, probably remnants of the hosts of Brennus,settled in the country. Most of the tribes seem tohave been governed by their own chiefs or kings.(Veil. Pat. ii. 114; Sext. Kuf. lirev. 7; Jornand.de iieg. Sue. 50.) The obscurity which hangsover its history begins to be somewhat removed inthe time of the triumvirate at Koine, b.c. 35, whenOctaviauus, for no other purpose but that of givinghis troops occupation and maintaining them at thoexpense of others, attacked the Pannonians, and byconquering the town of Siscia broke the strength uf 1 the nation. (Dion Cass. xlix. 36; Apfaaa.i%jj13, 22, foil.) His general Yibius afterwards am*pleted the conquest of the country. Bat c<*m*fyears after this, when a war between Marutwa^king of the Marco manni, and the Roman* m <a Aipoint of breaking out, the Pannonian.*, toeitfatr *mthe Dalmatians and other lllyrian tribe*, ru* SIgreat insurrection against their opprevwn, «d iwas not till after a bloody war of several year* •ration that Tiberius succeeded in rwiuciug 'drcand changing the country into a Roman \r.tr^aA.i). 8. (Dion Cass. Iv. 24. 28, 29; Suet. /A. U20; Veil. Pat. ii. 110, foil.) Heuctj'orta ioasiderable army was kept in Pannonia to mcwi asubmission of the people. When the soldiers m.zMthe news of the death of Augustus, they brotf ■in open rebellion, but were reduced by Dru=o?-Ann. i. 15, foil. 30; Dion Cass. Irii. 4.) Iwwthe first century Pannonia formed only one pnrarfunder the administration of a lieutenant of ii* «peror. Respecting its division in the second m'^we have already spoken. Until the time m a"migratiou of nations, Pannonia remained a tartthe Roman empire; many colonies aiid irx-rawere established in the country, and farirc--«sbuilt for its protection; military reads air** «constructed, especially one alone the Danate. sadsecond through the central part of the coaxiiry wVindobona to Sirmium. The Romans djumuch to civilise the Pan not dan but they at lsame time derived great benefits from tfcrm. 1military valour of the natives was of grtw *nto them, and formed always a considrrabi* Vtion of the Roman legions. About tiie m**ubthe fifth century Pannonia was kart to liftin consequence of the conquests made by ii* Hito whom the emperor Theudmius II. wi*formally to cede Pannonia. (Prise, £ze. « Ip. 37, ed. Paris.) On the dissolution ot ii* esflof the Huns by the death of Attila. th* rasa*into the hands of the CM mouths (JtiraaneL t-tf-lfrom whom it passed, about a.d. 5O0, into tV*<the Longobardi, who in their turn had u» ffi** ito the Avari in a.i>. 568. The ancient authorities for the reornanhT 1nonia arc Ptolemy (ii. 15 and 16). Pliny (a,!Strabo (iv. p. 206, foil, t. p. 213. ML rn. f 1foil.), Dion Cassias (xlix. 34—38, K. IVelleius Paterenlus (ii. 110. foil), Tacitus (Am16, foil.), Appian, Jorrmndes (U. cr.\ Aamodem writers the following deserve to be cns&xiSchonleben, Camiola antiyua tt tutn, and AmCom it/he ant 'tqiuie tt tutvae, haras, 16^1.Katanesich, Comment, in C. Piinii '11 ■■ ai inoniam, Buda. 1829; Niebuhr, Lect cm 4aiHist vol. i. p. 164, toll. PANOPEUSor PHANOTKDS (n«nrm IStrab. Pans.; Havom}. Hes. ap. Strvh. ix. |l aSteph. B. s.v.; Or. Met iii. 19; Stat. Tt\m\344; nwoireai, Herod, viii. 34; taiarnaby Strab., ix. p. 423, to be its name in feu*:but the form also occurs in Thuc. ir. 89; +mwmSteph. B. s. p.; Phanotea, Liv. xxxii. %h •riacoTTfus, QavoTfv?) an ancient town ctf 1**near the frontier of Boeotia, and on tb*:Daulis to Chaeroneia. Paus-intas smys thms 1pens was 20 stadia from Ctiuenwia, ao^ 7"Daulis (ix. 4. §§ 1.7); but the latter tri .'obviously a mLtake. The mins at tu* *ti'iaA to Vlasi (fryios BAotrn), which arr tlrar-*-of Panopeus, arc distant about 20 Madia