OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 19 said to have fallen. After the subjugation of the Vaccaeans,Lusitanians, and Gallaecians, the whole peninsula, with theexception of the north coast, was now at least nominallysubject to the Romans. A senatorial commission was sent to Spain in order to New orga-organize, in concert with Scipio, the newly won provincial nization ofterritory after the Roman method; and Scipio did what he sPain-could to obviate the effects of the disgraceful and stupidpolicy of his predecessors. The Caucani for instance,whose shameful maltreatment by Lucullus he had beenobliged to witness nineteen years before when a militarytribune, were invited by him to return to their town and torebuild it. Spain began once more to enjoy better times.The suppression of piracy, which found dangerous lurking-places in the Baleares, through the occupation of theseislands by Quiutus Caecilius Metellus in 631 was singu- 123.larly conducive to the prosperity of Spanish commerce;and in other respects also the fertile islands, inhabited by adense population which was unsurpassed in the use of thesling, were a valuable possession. How numerous theLatin-speaking population in the peninsula was even then,is shown by the settlement of 3000 Spanish Latins in thetowns of Palma and Pollentia (Pollenza) in the newlyacquired islands. In spite of various grave evils theRoman administration of Spain preserved on the whole thestamp which the Catonian period, and primarily TiberiusGracchus, had impressed on it. It is true that the Romanfrontier territory had not a little to suffer from the inroadsof the tribes but half subdued or not subdued at all on thenorth and west. Among the Lusitanians in particularthe poorer youths regularly congregated as banditti, andin large gangs levied contributions from their countrymenor their neighbours, for which reason, even at a much laterperiod, the isolated homesteads in this region were con­structed in the style of fortresses and were, in case of need,capable of defence; nor did the Romans succeed in puttingan end to these predatory habits in the inhospitable an$almost inaccessible Lusitanian mountains. But the succeed­ing wars assumed more and more the character of guerilladisorders, which every tolerably efficient governor wasable to repress with his ordinary resources; and in spiteof these inflictions on the border districts, Spain was themost flourishing and best-organized country in all the