OCR Output 2S8 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV "be allowed to observe their Sabbaths, and to act in all things"according to the customs of their forefathers, without impedi-M ment from any body, the pretor hath granted their petition."Accordingly, it was decreed by the senate and people, that in"this affair that concerned the Romans, no one of them should"be hindered from keeping the Sabbath day, nor be fined for"so doing, but that they may be allowed to do all things accord-"ing to their own laws." 26. Now there are * many such decrees of the senate and im-perators of the Romans, and those different from these beforeus, which have been made in favour of Hyrcanus, and of ournation; as also, there have been more decrees of the city, andrescripts of the pretors, to such epistles as concerned our rightsand privileges: and certainly such as are not ill disposed to whatwe write, may believe that they are all to this purpose, andthat by the specimens which we have inserted; for since wehave produced evident marks that may still be seen, of the friend足ship we have had with the Romans, and demonstrated that thosemarks are engraven upon columns and tables of brass in thecapitol, that are still in being, and preserved to this day, wehave omitted to set them all down, as needless and disagreeable;for I cannot suppose any one so perverse as not to believe thefriendship we have had with the Romans, while they have de足monstrated the same by such a great number of their decreesrelating to; nor will they doubt of our fidelity as to the rest ofthose decrees, since we have showed the same in those we haveproduced. And thus have we sufficiently explained that friend足ship and confederacy we at those times had with the Romans. CHAP. XI . How f Marcus succeeded Sextus, when he had been slain byBassus' treachery ,' and how, after the death of Ctesar, Cassiascame into Syria, and distressed Judea - as also, how Molichusslew Antipater, and was himself slain by Herod. J 1. JN ow it so fell out, that about this very time the affairsof Syria were in great disorder, and this on the occasion fol足 * If we compare Josephus" promise in sect. 1. to produce all the public decreesof the Romans in favour of the Jews with his excuse here for omitting many of them,we may observe, that when he came to transcribe all those decrees he had collected,he found them so numerous that he thought he should too much tire his readers if hehad attempted it, which he thought a sufficient apology for his omitting the rest ofthem; yet do those by him produced afford such a strong confirmation to his history,and give such great light to even the Roman Antiquities themselves, that I believethe curious are not a little sorry for such his omission. f For Marcus the president of Syria, sent us successor to Sextus Caesar, the