OCR Output 214 LIVY. routed and dispersed the Massylians. Masinissa fledfrom the field, attended only by a few horsemen, to amountain which the natives call Balbus. A number offamilies with their tents and cattle, which is all theirwealth, followed their king; the rest of the Massy­lians submitted to Syphax. The mountain of whichthe fugitive took possession abounds with grass andwater; and as it was thus well adapted to the grazing ofcattle, it supplied abundance of food to feed men livingon flesh and milk. Excursions from henee were madethrough all the neighboring parts; at first secretly andby night; afterwards openly. The lands of the Car­thaginians suffered most, because there was greaterplenty of spoil there than among the Numidians, andit was carried off with less danger. At length they be­came so bold as to carry down their booty to the sea,and sell it to merchants, who brought their ships thi­ther for the purpose; and on these occasions greaternumbers of the Carthaginians were slain and madeprisoners than often happens in a regular engagement.On this subject the Carthaginians made heavy com­plaints to Syphax, earnestly pressing him to crush thisremnant of the foe. To this he was himself well in­clined, but thought it rather beneath the dignity of aking to pursue a vagrant robber, as he styled him,through the mountains. 32. Bocchar, a spirited and enterprising general,was chosen by the Numidian for that employment.Four thousand foot and two thousand horse were givenhim; with a promise of immense reward if he shouldbring back the head of Masinissa; or rather if beshould take him alive, for that the latter would be tohim a matter of inexpressible joy. Falling unex­pectedly on Masinissa's men, when they were scat­tered about and off their guard, and who were in con­siderable numbers, he shut them out, together withtheir cattle, from the protection of those who were inarms, driving Masinissa himself, with his few fol­lowers, to the summit of the mountain. On this, con­sidering the war as nearly finished, he sent to the king