OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 201 were debated in the senate, and finally ratified or chap. rejected by a majority of votes in the thirty curice or _ parishes of the city. Romulus, Numa, and ServiusTullius, are celebrated as the most ancient legis­lators; and each of th em claims his peculiar part inthe threefold division of Jurisprudence. The lawsof marriage, the education of children, and the au­thority of parents, which may seem to draw theirorigin from nature itself, are ascribed to the untu­tored wisdom of Romulus. The law of nations andof religious worship, which Numa introduced, wasderived from his nocturnal converse with the nymphEgeria. The civil law is attributed to the experienceof Servius: he balanced the rights and fortunes ofthe seven classes of citizens; and guarded, by fiftynew regulations, the observance of contracts and thepunishment of crimes. The state, which he hadinclined towards a democracy, was changed by thelast Tarquin into lawless despotism; and when thekingly office was abolished, the patricians engrossedthe benefits of freedom. The royal laws becameodious or obsolete; the mysterious deposit was si­lently preserved by the priests and nobles; and, atthe end of sixty years, the citizens of Rome stillcomplained that they were ruled by the arbitrarysentence of the magistrates. Yet the positive in­stitutions of the kings had blended themselves withthe public and private manners of the city; somefragments of that venerable jurisprudence were com­piled by the diligence of antiquarians, and abovetwenty texts still speak the rudeness of the Pelasgicidiom of the Latins*. * In the year 1444, seven or eight tables of brass were dug up between Cor-tona and Gubio. A part of these, for the rest is Etruscan, represents the pri­mitive state of the Pelasgic letters and language, which are ascribed by Herodotusto that district of Italy (I i. c. 56, 57, 58); though this difficult passage may beexplained of a Crestona in Thrace (Notes de Larcher, tom. i. p. 25(5—261).The savage dialect of the Eugubine tables has exercised, and may still elude, thedivination of criticism; but the root is undoubtedly Latin, of the same age and