OCR Output XXU SOME ACCOUNT O* DR. SMITH. " Church into the hands of the Common Council; therefore it" is ordered, that this Council do immediately after such his re-" signation make him a compliment of one hundred and fifty" guineas, for his eminent and good services in the said Church." In July the same year, he came to the Deanry-house in Ches­ter, with intent to pass the rest of his days there. The fa­vourable reception of his Thucydides induced the Dean, inthis healthy and pleasant retreat, to finish his Translation of" Xenophon's History of the Affairs of Greece:"which he published in one volume 4to. in the year 1770: thisTranslation appeared without any dedication. To form a judg­ment of its merit we may only quote the words of the title page,that it is " by the Translator of Thucydides." When the Dean retired within the precincts of his Cathe­dral, he had resigned St. George's and held with the Deanrythe parish churches of Handley and Trinity only: till theRectory of West Kirkby,inthe hundred of Wirrall in Cheshire,became vacant by the decease of that excellent magistrate andpersuasive preacher, the Rev. Mr. Mainwaring, Prebendaryof Chester. The Dean was instituted to this Rectory on the4th of October, 1780. This is a valuable living in the pa­tronage of the Dean and Chapter. At this time the Deanresigned the Rectory of Trinity. Doctor Smith was now Dean of Chester, Rector of Handley,and West Kirkby; but his best parochial preferment happenedlate in life ; he was advanced into his seventieth year, and be­gan to feel the infirmities ever attendant on age and a delicateconstitution. He had hitherto been a constant and powerfulpreacher: he began now to preach less frequently, as every ex­ertion fatigued him exceedingly. But when he could no longerpreach from the pulpit, he preached from the press, by publish­ing in 8vo. " Nine Discourses on the Beatitudes," inthe year 1782*. • The good and learned Doctor Lowth, late Bishop of London, hiphlycommends these sermons in a letter to the Dean, dated at Fulham, July8th, 1782. Bishop Lowth and Dean Smith were contemporaries at Oxford:where an intimate friendship commenced between them, which continuedtill that year in which these two luminaries of the Church of Christ were" snatched—so Heaven decreed!—away."