OCR Output 376 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. to the Atheniaa jurisdiction, and yet that it was impossiblefor them to be carried off by force; and truce farther theywould grant none, where the point related to Athenianground ; that it was therefore the most proper reply—" they should quit their territory, and so obtain their de-" mands." The herald of the Athenians having heard this,departed without effect. Immediately after, the Boeotians, having sent for dartersand slingers from the Melian bay, and being reinforced bytwo thousand heavy-armed Corinthians, and the Pelopon-nesian garrison which had evacuated Nisaea, and a party ofMegareans, all which had joined them since the battle,marched against Delium, and assaulted the fortification.They tried many methods, and took it at last by the help ofa machine of a very particular structure.—Having splitasunder a large sail-yard, they hollowed it throughout, andfixed it together again in a very exact manner, so as to re­semble a pipe. At its extremity they fastened a caldron byhelp of chains, into which a snout of iron was bent down­wards from the yard. The inside, farther, of this woodenmachine was lined almost throughout with iron. Theybrought it from a distance to the fortification on carriages,and applied it where the work consisted chiefly of vines andtimber. And when near enough, they put a large bellowsto that extremity of the yard which was next themselves,and begun to blow. But the blast, issuing along the boreinto the caldron, which was filled with glowing coals andsulphur and pitch, kindled up a prodigious flame. This setfire to the work, and burnt with so much fury, that not asoul durst any longer stay upon it, but to a man they aban­doned it and fled away amain: and in this manner was thefortress carried. Of the garrison, some were put to thesword, but two hundred were made prisoners. The bulk ofthe remainder, throwing themselves on board their vessels,escaped in safety to Athens. It was the seventeenth day after the battle that Delium