OCR Output 526 DISSERTATION III. into the city. The Romans then betook themselves to thesiege, for it did not seem honorable to stay till the enemieswere reduced by famine.1 The soldiers were very eager toexpose themselves to dangers, part of them out of true valor,many out of a brutish fierceness, and others out of a desireof rewards. Titus had Rome, and the riches and pleasures of it, beforehis eyes, all which seemed to be too long delayed, unlessJerusalem could be soon destroyed. The city2 stood on a high elevation, and it had great worksand ramparts to secure it, such indeed as were sufficient forits fortification, had it been on plain ground ; for there weretwo hills, of a vast height, which were enclosed by walls madecrooked by art, or [naturally] bending inwards, that theymight flank the besiegers, and cast darts on them sideways.The extreme parts of the rock were craggy, and the towers,when they had the advantage of the ground, were 60 feethigh: when they were built on the plain ground, they werenot built lower than 120 feet: they were of uncommon beauty,and to those who looked at them at a great distance, theyseemed equal. Other walls there were beneath the royalpalace, besides the tower of Antonia, with its top particularlyconspicuous. It was called so by Herod, in honor of MarcusAntonius. Chap. XII.] The temple was like a citadel, having wallsof its own, which had more labor and pains bestowed on themthan the rest. The cloisters wherewith the temple was en­closed were an excellent fortification. They had a fountain of water that ran perpetually; andthe mountains were hollowed under ground ; they had more­over pools3 and cisterns for the preservation of rain-water. 1 Such a deliberation and resolution, with this very reason, that it wouldbe dishonorable to stay till the Jews were starved out by famine, is in Jose-phus, Antiq. b. v. ch. xii. sect. 1. * This description of the city of Jerusalem, its two hills, its three walls,and four towers, &c, are in this place at large in Josephus, Antiq. b. v. ch.iv. See also Pompey's siege, b. xiv. ch. iv. sect. 2. s Of these pools, seo Josephus, b. v. ch. xi. sect. 4. The cisterns are notmentioned by him here, though they be mentioned by travellers. See Re-land's Palestine, torn. i. p. 304.