OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 137 diery got together, the crowd about' him ran away, and Clau­dius could hardly go on, his body was then so weak ; and thosewho carried his sedan, upon an inquiry that was made about hisbeing carried off, ran away and saved themselves, as despairingof their lord's preservation. Bat, when they were come intothe large court of the palace, (which, as the report goes aboutit, was inhabited first of all the parts of the city of Rome), andhad just reached the public treasury, many more soldiers cameabout him as glad to see Claudius's face, and thought it exceed­ing right to make him emperor, on account of their kindness forGermanicus, who was his brother, and had left behind him a vastreputation among all that were acquainted with him. They re­flected also on the covetous temper of the leading men of the se­nate, and what great errors they had been guilty of, when the se­nate had the government formerly ; they also considered the im­possibility of such an undertaking, as also what dangers theyshould be in, if the government should come to a single person,and that such an one should possess it, as they had no hand in ad­vancing, and not to Claudius, who would take it as their grant,and as gained by their good-will to him, and would rememberthe favours they had done him, and would make them a sufficientrecoinpence for the same. 3. These were the discourses the soldiers had one with ano­ther by themselves, and they communicated them to all such ascame into them. Now, those that inquired about this matter,willingly embraced the invitation that was made them to joinwith the rest : so they carried Claudius into the camp, crowdingabout him as his guard, and encompassing him about, one chair­man still succeeding another, that their vehement endeavours mightnot be hindered. But, as to the populace and senators, they dis­agreed in their opinions. The latter were very desirous to recovertheir former dignity, and were zealous to get clear of the slaverythat had been brought on them by the injurious treatments of thetyrants, which the present opportunity afforded them ; but forthe people, who were envious against them, and knew that theemperors were capable of curbing their covetous temper, andwere a refuge from them, they were veYy glad that Claudius hadbeen seized upon, and brought to them, and thought, that ifClaudius were made emperor, he would prevent a civil war,such as there was in the days of Pompey. But, when the se­nate knew that Claudius was brought into the camp by the sol­diers, they sent to him those of their body which had the bestcharacter for their virtues, that they might inform him, " that" he ought to do nothing by violence, in order to gain the gc-" vernment; that he who was a single person, one either already, VOL. III. S " or