OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE BOMAN EMPIRE. . 155 one of her cousins, the regal title, and of reserving inher own hands the substance of supreme power. Hereceived the proposal with profound respect and affectedgratitude; and the eloquent Cassiodorius announced tothe senate and the emperor, that Amalasontha and The*odatus had ascended the throne of Italy. His birth (forhis mother was the sister of Theodoric) might be con­sidered as an imperfect title; and the choice of Amalas­ontha was more strongly directed by her contempt of hisavarice and pusillanimity, which had deprived him of thelove of the Italians, and the esteem of the barbarians.But Theodatus was exasperated by the contempt whichhe deserved; her justice had repressed and reproachedthe oppression which he exercised against his Tuscanneighbours; and the principal Goths, united by com­mon guilt and resentment, conspired to instigate hisslow and timid disposition. The letters of congratulation Her exilewere scarcely dispatched before the queen of Italy was SId^ms'imprisoned in a small island of the lake of Bolsena,'April 30.where, after a short confinement, she was strangled inthe bath, by the order, or with the connivance, of thenew king, who instructed his turbulent subjects to shedthe blood of their sovereigns. Justinian beheld with joy the dissensions of the Goths;■ BelisariuKand the mediation of an ally concealed and promoted and" Sub-the ambitious views of the conqueror. His ambassadors, d""Sicilr-in their public audience, demanded the fortress of Lily-basum, ten barbarian fugitives, and a just compensationfor the pillage of a small town on the Illyrian borders;but they secretly negotiated with Theodatus, to betraythe province of Tuscany, and tempted Amalasontha toextricate herself from danger and perplexity, by a freesurrender of the kingdom of Italy. A false and servile 'The Like, from the neighbouring towns of Etruria, was styled either Vulsiniensis(now of Bolsena) or Tarquiniensis. It is surrounded with white rocks, and storedwith fish and wild fowl. The younger Pliny (Epist. 2. 96.) celebrates two woodyislands that floated on its waters: if a fablet how credulous the ancients!—if a fact,how careless the moderns! Yet since Pliny, the island may have been fixed by newand gradual successions. '. '• ■ . M 2