OCR Output THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B-VII. From this time the Syracusans rushed upon them fromthence, and awed all their motions. The convoys couldno more get in without fighting their way. Besides that,in all other respects, it struck a great consternation,and even a dejection of mind, amongst the troops. The next step taken by the Syracusans was to sendout to sea a squadron of twelve ships, under the com­mand of Agatharcus, a Syracusan. One of these shipswas to proceed to Peloponnesus, and land an embassythere, which had instructions, ** to notify a present"hopeful posture of affairs, and to press the prosecu,tM tion of the war in Greece with all possible vigour."The other eleven stood over to the Italian coast, havingreceived intelligence, that a number of small vessels,laden with stores for the Athenians, were coming up..They intercepted and intirely destroyed most of these iand the timber on-board them, which was readywrought for the Athenians to frame together into ships,they burnt to ashes on the shore of Caulonia. Thisdone, they stood away for Locri; and, whilst they layin that road, one of the transports from Peloponnesus,having on-board the heavy- armed from Thespiæ, camein. The Syracusans removed those heavy-armed intotheir own ships, and returned with them to Syracuse.. The Athenians with twenty fail were stationed atMegara, in order to intercept their return; where oneship alone, with all the crew, fell into their hands,They were not able to come up with the rest; since, e-luding all pursuit, they recover with security their ownharbours. There happened also a skirmish, in the harbour of Sy­racuse, about the piles which the Syraculans had drovedown in the sea before their old docks, that their vesselsmight ride in sasety behind them, the Athenians be un­able to stand in amongst them and do any damage tofheir shipping. Close up to those piles the Athenianshad towed a raft of prodigious size, on which turretsand parapets to cover the defendants were erected,.. .' whilst