OCR Output CHAP. L. 279 instituted, in each year, a fast of thirty days; and stre­nuously recommended the observance, as a disciplinewhich purifies the soul and subdues the body, as a salu­tary exercise of obedience to the will of God and hisapostle. During the month of Ramadan, from the risingto the setting of the sun, the Mussulman abstains fromeating, and drinking, and women, and baths, and per­fumes; from all nourishment that can restore his strength,from all pleasure that can gratify his senses. In the re­volution of the lunar year, the Ramadan coincides byturns with the winter cold and the summer heat; andthe patient martyr, without assuaging his thirst with adrop of water, must expect the close of a tedious andsultry day. The interdiction of wine, peculiar to someorders of priests or hermits, is converted by Mahometalone into a positive and general law :m and a considera­ble portion of the globe has abjured, at his command, theuse of that salutary, though dangerous liquor. Thesepainful restraints are, doubtless, infringed by the liber­tine, and eluded by the hypocrite: but the legislator, bywhom they are enacted, cannot surely be accused of al­luring his proselytes by the indulgence of their sensualappetites. III. The charity of the Mahometans de­scends to the animal creation; and the Koran repeatedlyinculcates, not as a merit, but as a strict and indispensa­ble duty, the relief of the indigent and unfortunate. Ma­homet, perhaps, is the only lawgiver who has defined theprecise measure of charity: the standard may vary withthe degree and nature of property, as it consists either inmoney, in corn or cattle, in fruits or merchandise; butthe Mussulman does not accomplish the law, unless hebestows a tenth of his revenue; and if his conscience ac­ and AI Beidawi. D'Herbelot declares, that Mahomet condemned In vi religietise;and that the first swarms of fakirs, dervises, &c. did not appear till after the year300 of the Hegira. (Bibliot. Orient, p. 292. 718. m See the double prohibition; (Koran, c. 2. p. 25. c. 5. p. 94.) the one in thestyle of a legislator, the other in that of a fanatic. The public and private motivesof Mahomet are investigated by Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 62—64.)audSale.(Preliminary Discourse, p.