OCR Output 976 SICIMA. SICI mountains seem to have been somewhat vague andfluctuating; but we may assign the mame of Xef-TL'Nirs Mons to the chain which rises at CapePelorus, and extends from thence to the neighbour-hood of Tanromenium; while that of Mons Nkhuo-DES seems to have been applied in a more generalsense to the whole northerly range extending fromnear Tanromenium to the neighbourhood of Panor-mus; and the HebarI MoNTEfl of Diodorus can beno others than a part of the same range. (See therespective articles.) But incomparably the mostimportant of the mountains of Sicily, and the moststriking physical feature of the whole island, is thegreat volcanic mountain of Aetna, which rises onthe E. coast of the island, and attains an elevationof 10.874 feet, while its base is not leas than 90miles in circumference. It is wholly detached fromthe mountains and hills which surround it, beingbounded on the N. by the river A cosines or Alcan­tara, and the valley through which it flows, and onthe \V. and S. by the Symaethns, while on the E.its streams of lava descend completely into the sea,and constitute the line of coast for a distance ofnear 30 miles. The rivers already mentioned con­stitute (with trifling exceptions) the limits of thevolcanic district of Aetna, but volcanic formationsof older date, including beds of lava, scoriae, fltc, arescattered uver a considerable extent of the SIC. por­tion of the island, extending from the neighbourhoodof Patagonia to that of Pulazzoloy and eren toSyracuse. These indeed belong to a much moreancient epoch of volcanic action, and can neverhave been in operation since the existence of manupon the island. The extensive action of volcanicfires upon Sicily was, however, observed by theancients, and is noticed by several writers. Theapparent connection between Aetna and the volcanoesof tiie Aeolian Islands is mentioned by Strabo, andthe same author justly appeals to the craters of thePalici, and to the numerous thermal springs through­out the island, as proofs that the subterraneanagencies were widely diffused beneath its surface(Strab. vi. pp. 274, 275). Eew countries in Europe surpass Sicily in generalproductiveness and fertility, lis advantages in thisrespect are extolled by many - ancient writers.Strabo tells us (vi. p. 273) that it was not inferior toItaly in any kind of produce, and even surpassed it inmany. It was generally believed to be the nativecountry of wheat (Diod. v. 2), and it is certain thatit was not surpassed by any country either in theabundance or quality of this production. It wasequally celebrated for the excellence of its honeyand its saffron, botli of which were extensively ex­ported to Rome; as well as for its sheep and cattle,and excellent breeds of horses, among which thoseof Agrigentum seem to have been the most cele­brated (Strab. I. c.\ Sil. ItaL xiv. 23; Vlrg. Aen.iii. 704). There were indeed no extensive plains,like those of Campania or Cisalpine Gaul; the largestbeing that now called the Piano di Catania, extend­ing along the banks of tlie Symaethus, and knownin ancient times as the Lkontini's or LaEBTKT-GOMiua Campus. Hut the whole island was inter­sected by numerous streams, and beautiful valleys;and though a considerable part of its surface (asalready observed) was occupied either by mountainsor rocky hills, the slopes and underfalls of theseabound I'd in scenery of the most charming descrip­tion, and were adapted for the growth of vines,olives, and fruits of every description. The climate of Sicily imediate between those ofThe northern part of the•etnbles the portion of Iimmediately*in contact; 1western parts present smore southerly latitude,arid appearance (at leaftravellers), except in wintance also of the dwarf jLinn.), a plant unknowntends to give a peculiar iSicily. The climate ofcertainly not considered tand though at the presersutler severely from malabelieve that this would fcincreased population andIt is remarkable, indeed,Italy, that frequently tinconsidered the most unheoccupied by flourishingmany cases the malarialocal causes, which migdraining marshes or afforoast waters. rx h The accounts of theare more rational and c<the case with such tradiously derived from that cin historical times to beSiculiot Sicf.ls (2i«f>versally received represerfrom the mainland, whe:in the extreme southernditions and notices of thItaly, and of their previtions, are, indeed, extrediscussed elsewhere [Si<they were at one time set■ola, and from thence pbe safely received as histbability also that they witheir origin from the nfind in that part of Italy,with the Oenotrians anddeed, the names of 2;*edared by many phtlolo£There seems, therefore, lior Siculi, may be regard*the great Pelasgic race, wtimes occupying the soulthis kindred origin will twhich we find the Sicelalanguage and civiJisatiorthe island, at the sanabundant traces of theirpeople of Italy. liut the Sicels, whoperiod the greater part owere not, according tothinhabitants. Tbucydiuegratioti to a period onl]settlement of the 6rst Giand Diodorus, without arepresenting them as thenative population of thefirst notices of Sicily alhof gigantic men, of oj