OCR Output 36 J THE DECLINE AND FALL luxury. In the days of paganism, both Emesa and Heliopolis were addicted to theworship of Baal, or the sun; but the decline of their superstition and splendourhas been marked by a singular variety of fortune. Not a vestige remains of thetemple of Emesa, which was equalled in poetic style to the summit of mount Li-banus,(l) while the ruins of Baalbec, invisible to the writers of antiquity, excitethe curiosity and wonder of the European traveller. (2) The measure of the,tem-ple is two hundred feet in length, and one hundred in breadth: the front is adornedwith a double portico of eight columns; fourteen may be counted on either side;and each column, forty-five feet in height, is composed of three massy blocks ofstone or marble. The proportions and ornaments of the Corinthian order expressthe architecture of the Greeks; but as Baalbec has never been the seat of a mo­narch, we are at a loss to conceive how the expense of these magnificent structurescould be supplied by private or municipal liberality.(3) From the conquest ofDamascus the Saracens proceeded to Heliopolis and Emesa: but 1 shall declinethe repetition of the sallies and combats which have been already shown on a largescale. In the prosecution of the war, their policy was not less effectual than theirsword. By short and separate truces they dissolved the union of the enemy; ac­customed the Syrians to compart their friendship with their enmity; familiarizedthe idea of their language, religion, and manners; and exhausted, by clandestinepurchase, the magazines and arsenals of the cities which they returned to besiege.They aggravated the ransom of the more wealthy or the more obstinate; and Chal-cis alone was taxed at five thousand ounces of gold, five thousand ounces of silver,two thousand robes of silk, and as many figs and olives as would load five thousandasses. But the terms of truce or capitulation were faithfully observed; and thelieutenant of the caliph, who had promised not to enter the walls of the captiveBaalbec, remained tranquil and immoveable in his tent till the jarring factions so­licited the interposition of a foreign master. The conquest of the plain and val­ley of Syria was achieved in less than two years. Yet the commander of the faith­ful reproved the slowness of their progress, and the Saracens, bewailing their faultwith tears of rage and repentance, called aloud on their chiefs to lead them forthto fight the battles of the Lord. In a recent action, under the walls of Emesa, anArabian youth, the cousin of Caled, was heard aloud to exclaim—" Methinks I seethe black-eyed girls looking upon me; one of whom, should she appear in this world,all mankind would iVe for love of her. And I see in the hand of one of them, ahandkerchief of green silk, and a cap of precious stones, and she beckons me andcalls out, Come hither quickly, for I love thee." With these words charging theChristians, he made havoc wherever he went, till observed at length by the gover­nor of Hems, he was struck through with a javelin. It was incumbent on the Saracens to exert the full powers of their valour andenthusiasm against the forces of the emperor, who was taught by repeated losses,that the rovers of the desert had undertaken, and would speedily achiete, a regu­lar and permanent conquest. From the provinces of Europe and Asia, fourscorethousand soldiers were transported by sea and land to Antioch and Casarea: thelight troops of the army consisted of sixty thousand Christian Arabs of the tribesof Gassan. Under the banner of Jabalah, the last of their princes, thev marchedin the van; and it was a maxim of the Greeks, that, for the purpose of cuttingdiamond, a diamond was the most effectual. Heraclius withheld his person fromthe dangers of the field; but his presumption, ov perhaps his despondency, suggested (1) ....: RmMie fastigia celsa rcnident Nam diffusa solo latus explieat; ac subit auras Turribus in cwlum mtentibus; incola Claris Cor studiis aeilit . . . • • Denique flamtnicoruo devoti pectora loli Vitam agitant. Libanus frnndosa cacuniina turget lilt tamer* his certant celsifastigia templi,These verses of the Latin Tersion of Rtifus Avienus are wanting in the Greek original of Dionysiw; and sinetbey are likewise unnoticed by Eustathius, I must, with Fabncius (Ribliot. Latin, torn. iii. p. 153. edit. Er.nesti,) and ae^tnst Salmasius, (ad Vopiscum, p. 366, 367. in Hist. August.) ascribe them to the fancy ratherthan to the MSS.of Avienus. (2) I aw much better satisfied with MaundreU's slight octavo (Journey, p. 134—139.) than with the pompousfolio of Dr Pocuck; (Description of the East, vol. ii. p. 106—113.) but every preceding account is eclipsed by themagnificent description and drawings of MM. Datvkius and Wood, who have transported into England theruins of Palmyra and Baalbec. (3) The orientals explain the prodifryby a never-failing expedient. The edifices of Baalbec were constructedby the fairies or the genii. (Hist de Timour Bee. torn. iii. lib. v. c. 23. p. 311,312. Voyage d'Otter. torn. i. p. 83.)with less absurdity, but with equal ignorance, Abulfeda and Ibu Chaukel ascribe them to the Sabaeaos oAaditet. Non sunt id omm Syria sedincia magnificcjitiora his. (Tabula Syrhe, p. 103.