OCR Output Memphis. 325 MEMPHIS. position in the "narrows" of Aegypt, at a pointwhere the Arabian and Libyan hills converge forthe last time as they approach the Delta, andwhence Memphis commanded the whole inlandtrade, whether ascending or descending the Nile.On the coins of Hadrian the wealth and fertility ofMemphis are expressed by a figure of the Nile ontheir reverse, holding in his left hand a cornucopia.(Mi-ranet, SuppL ix. No. 42.) The position of Memphis, again, as regarded thecivilisation which Aegypt imparted or received, wasmost favourable. A capital in the Thebaid wouldhave been too remote for communication with theEast or Greece: a capital in the Delta would havebren too remote from the Upper Kingdom, whichwould then have pertained rather to Aethiopia thanto Aegypt; while the Delta itself, unsupported by theThebaid, must m all probability have become anAssyrian province. But the intermediate situationof Memphis connected it both with the southernportions of the Nile valley, as far as its keys at Philaeand Klcphantina, and also through the isthmus ofSarz and the coast, with the most civilised races ofA>ia and Europe. After the foundation of Alexan­dria, indeed, Memphis sunk into a provincial city.But the Saracen invaders in the seventh centuryconfirmed the wisdom of Menes's choice, for theybuilt both Old and New Cairo in the neighbourhoodof Memphis, only changing the site from the westernto the eastern bank of the river, because their naturalalliances, unlike those of the Pharaohs, were withthe Arabians and the Syrian Khalifates. The history of Memphis is in some measure thatof Aegypt also. The great works of Mencs wereprobably accomplished by successive monarchs, ifnot indeed by several dynasties. In the 1st periodof ibe monarchy we find that the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th,and 8th dynasties consisted of Memphite kings.Athotia, who is styled a son of Mencs, is said to havebuilt the palace, and thus stamped the new city asa n>yal residence. In the reign of Kaiechos, in the2nd dynasty, the worship of Apis was establishedat Memphis, which was equivalent to rendering it acathedral city. In the 7th dynasty we havo a recordrf seventy Memphite kings, each reigning for oneday: this probably denotes an interregnum, andperhaps a foregone revolution; for, as Herodotus re-navks (ii. 147), the Aegyptians could not existwithout a monarchy. After the 8th dynasty noaeries of Memphite kings occurs; and the royalfamilies pass to Heracleopolis, in the first place;next, after the expulsion of the Shepherds, to Thebes;afterwards to the Deltaic cities of Tanis, Bubastis,and Sais. The shepherd kings, thongh they formed theirgreat ramp at Abaris, retained Memphis as the seattf civil government (Manetho, ap. Joseph, conl.Apim,i. 14); and although, after they withdrewinto Syria, Thebes became the capital, yet we have aprW th»t the 18th dynasty—the house of Barneses—fceld their northern metropolis in high esteem. ForSewstris, or Barneses III. (Herod, ii. 108), on hisreturn from his Asiatic wars, set up in front of thetemple of Ptah at Memphis a colossal statue ofhimself 45 feet high; and this is probably the co-k**al figure still lying among the mounds of ruina: Uitranieh. Under the 25th dynasty, while theA*tbiopians occupied Aegypt, Memphis was againthe seat of a native government,—apparently thensmlt of a revolution, which set Sethos, a priest,Bpn the throne. A victory obtained by this mon- arch over the Assyrians was commemorated by astatue in the temple of Ptah—Sethos holding in hishand a mouse, the symbol of destruction. (Horapol.Hieroglyph, i. 50; comp. Aelian, B. anna, vi. 41;Strab. xiii. p. 604: Herod, ii. 141.) Under Psam-metichus (n. c. 670) the Phoenician soldiers, whohad aided him in gaining the crown, were establishedby him in " the Tyrian camp,"—at least this seemsto be the meaning of Herodotus (ii. 112),— but wereremoved by his successor Amasis into the capitalitself, and into that quarter of it called the " WhiteCastle." Of all the Aegyptian cities, Memphis suffered themost severely from the cruelty and fanaticism ofthe Persians. Its populace, excited by the defeat ofthe Aegyptian army at Pelusium, put to death thePersian herald who summoned the Memphians tosurrender. The vengeance of the conqueror is re­lated by Herodotus. Memphis became the head­quarters of a Persian garrison; and Cambyses, on hisreturn from his unfortunate expedition againstAethiopia, was more than ever incensed against thevanquished. Psammei.itus, the last of the Pharaohs,was compelled to puthimself to death (Herod, iii. 15);Cambyses slew the god Apis with his own hand, andmassacred his priests; he profaned the Temple ofPtah and burned the images of the Caheiri (id. ib. 32).Under Darius Aegypt was mildly governed, and hismoderation was shown by his acquiescence in thehigh-priest's refusal to permit the erection of astatue to him at Memphis. (Herod, ii. 110; Diodnr.i. 58.) The next important notice of this city is inthe reign of Artaxerxes I. Inaros, son of Psamme-tichus, had revolted from Persia, and called in theaid of the Athenians. (Diod. xi. 71.) The Per­sians were defeated at Papremis in the Delta (ib,74; comp. Mannert, Geogr. x. p. 591), fled to Mem­phis, and were besieged in the "White Castle."(Thucyd. i. 108—109.) The siege lasted for morethan a year (Diodor. ii. 75), and was at lengthraised (Ctcsias, c. 33), and the authority of theking of Persia restored. Under Nectanebus I., thefirst monarch of the Sebennytic dynasty, Memphisexpelled its Persian garrison, nor did it return toits allegiance, until Nectanebus II., the last repre­sentative of thirty dynasties, was driven into Ae­thiopia. (Athenaeus, iv. p. 150.) From this periodMemphis loses its metropolitan importance, »ndsinks to the level of the chief provincial city ofAegypt. If, as Diodorus remarks (i. 51), Thebes sur­passed Memphis in the grandeur of its temples, thelatter city was more remarkable for the number ofits deities and sacred buildings, and for its Eecularand commercial edifices. It might, indeed, as regardsits shrines, be not improperly termed the Pantheonof the land of Misraim. The following were itsprincipal religious structures, and they seem toinclude nearly all the capital objects of Aegyptianworship except the goat and the crocodile:— 1. The temple of Isis, was commenced at a veryearly period, but only completed by Amasis, B.C. 564.It is described as spacious and beautiful (Herod, ii.176; Heliodor. Aethiop. vii. 2, 8, 11), but inferiorto the Iseium at Busiiis (Herod, ii. 59, 61). 2. The temple of Proteus, founded probably by-Phoenicians, who had a commercial establishment atMemphis. It was of so early date as to be ascribedto the era of the Trojan War, (Plutarch, tie Gen.Socrat. c. 7.) 3. The temple of Apia, completed in the reign of T 3