OCR Output 70 . [book ft. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to God against them, since they had alreadybeen permitted to go out . And they thoughtthey should easily overcome them, as theyhad no armour, and would be weary withtheir journey. So they made haste in theirpursuit, and enquired of every one they met,which way they were gone? And indeedthat land was difficult to be travelled over,not only by armies, but single persons. NowMoses led the Hebrews this way, that in casethe Egyptians should repent, and be desirousto pursue after them, they might undergo the Eunishment of their wickedness, and of thereach of those promises they had made tothem: he also chose this route on account ofthe Philistines, who had quarrelled withthem, and hated them of old; that by allmeans they might not know of their depar­ture, for their country is near that of Egypt:and thence it was that Moses led them notalong the road that tended to the land of thePhilistines, but he was desirous that theyshould go through the desert; and so, after along journey, and after many afflictions, theymight enter upon the land of Canaan. Ano­ther reason was, that God had commandedhim to bring the people to mount Sinai; thatthere they might offer him sacrifices. Now, when the Egyptians had overtakenthe Hebrews, they prepared to fight them,and by their multitude they drove them intoa narrow place: for the number that pursuedafter them was six hundred chariots, withfifty thousand horsemen, and two hundredthousand footmen, all armed. They alsoseized on the passages, by which they ima­gined the Hebrews might fly, shutting them*up between inaccessible mountains and the sea, for there was on each side a ridge ofmountains that terminated at the sea, whichwas impassable by reason of their roughness,and obstructed their flight; wherefore theythere pressed upon the Hebrews, with theirarmy, where the ridges of the mountains wereclose with the sea, which army they placedat the defiles of the mountains, that so theymight deprive them of any passage into theplain. When the Hebrews, therefore, were neitherable to bear up, being thus, as it were, be­sieged, because they wanted provisions, norsaw any possible way of escaping; and i!they should have thought of fighting, theyhad no weapons; they expected an universaldestruction, unless they delivered themselvesup voluntarily to the Egyptians: so they laidthe blame on Moses, and f forgot all the signsthat had been wrought by God for the reco­very of their freedom, and this so far, thattheir incredulity prompted them to throwstones at the prophet, while he encouragedthem, and promised them deliverance, andthey resolved that they would deliver them­selves up to the Egyptians; so there was sor­row and lamentation among the women andchildren, who had nothing but destructionbefore their eyes, while they were encom­passed with mountains, the sea, and the ene­mies, and discerned no way of flying fromthem. But Moses, though the multitude lookedfiercely at him, did not relinquish the care otthem, but despised all dangers, out of histrust in God, who, as he had afforded themthe several steps already taken for the reco­very of their liberty, which he had foretold, * Take the main part of Reland's excellent note here,which greatly illustrates Josephus and the Scriptures inthis history, with the small map thereunto belonging, asfollows:—" A traveller," says Reland, " whose name wasEneman, when he returned out of Egypt, told me, that hewent the same way from Egypt to mount Sinai, which hesupposed the Israelites of old travelled, and that he foundseveral mountainous tracts that ran down towards the RedSea, as he delineated them to me. See A, B, C. Hethought the Israelites had proceeded as far as the desert ofEtham, (see Exod. xiii. 20.) when they were commandedby God to return back, (see Exod. xiv. 2.) and to pitchtheir camp between Migdol and the sea; and that when-they were not able to fly, unless by sea, they were in theplace here denoted by the letter B, where they were shutin on each side by mountains, and that on the part wherestands D was the army of Pharaoh. He also thought we might evidently learn hence how it might be said that theIsraelites were in Etham before they crossed the sea, andyet might be said to have come into Etham, after they hadpassed over the sea. Besides, he gave me an account howhe passed over the river in a boat near the city Suez,which he said must needs be the Heroopolis of the an­cients, since that city could not be situated any where elsein that neighbourhood." As to the famous passage produced here by Dr. Ber­nard, out of Herodotus, as the most ancient heathen tes­timony of the Israelites coming from the Red Sea intoPalestine, Bishop Cumberland has shewn that it belongs tothe old Canaanite, or Phoenician shepherds, and their re­tiring out of Egypt into Canaan, or Phoenicia, long beforethe days of Moses. t Exod. xiv. 11.