OCR Output 402 NAUCRATIS. NAUPACTUS. into any other port or mouth of the Nile, they werecompelled either to sail round to Naucratis, or totransmit their cargoes thither in the country boats.Besides these commercial privileges, the Greeks ofNaucratis received from Amasis many civil andreligious immunities. They appointed their ownmagistrates and officers for the regulation of theirtrade, customs, and harbour dues, and were per­mitted the free exercise of their religious worship.Besides its docks, wharves, and other features of anHellenic city, Naucratis, contained four celebratedtemples:—(1) That of Zeus, founded by colonistsfrom Aogina; (2) of Hera, built by tho Samiansin honour of their tutelary goddess; (3 ) ofAjHtllo, erected by the Milesians; and (4) the mostancient and sumptuous of them all, the federaltemple entitled the Ucllenium, which was the com­mon property of the lonians of Chios, Teas, 1'ho-caea, and Claz-imcnae; of the Dorians of Phodes,Cuidus, and Halicarnassus; and of the Aetolians ofMytilene. They also observed the Dionysiac fes­tivals; and were, according toAthenaeus (xiii. p. 596,xv. p. 676), devout worshippers of Aphrodite. The two principal manufactures of Naucratiswere that of porcelain anil wreathes of flowers. Theformer received from the silicious matter aboundingin the earth of the neighbourhood a high glaze; andthe potteries were important enough to give namesto the J'otter's Gate and the Potter's Street, wheresucli wares were exposed for sale. (Id. xi. p. 480.) The garlands were, according to Athenaeus(xv. p. 671, seep), made of myrtle, or, as was some­times said, of Mowers entwined with the filamentsof t lie papyrus. Kither these garlands must havebeen artificial, or the makers of them possessed somesecret for preserving the natural flowers, since theywere exported to Italy, and held in high esteem bythe Roman ladies. (Lloettichcr, Sabhut, vol. i. pp.228, sc<p) Athenaeus gives a particular account(iv. pp. 150, seq.) of the Prytancian dinners ofthe Naucratites, as well as of their general disposi­tion to luxurious living. Some of their feasts appearto have been of the kind called "vvfiSoAa,''where the city provided a banqueting-room andwine, but the guests brought their provisions.At wedding entertainments it was forbidden tointroduce either eggs or pastry sweetened with honey.Naucratis was the birthplace of Athenaeus (iii.p. 73, vii. p. 301); of Julius Pollux, the an­tiquary and grammarian; and of certain obscurehistorians, cited by Athenaeus, e.g. Lyccas, Phylar-chus, lVychannus, Herostratus, &c. Heliodorus(Aeffiiop. vi. p. 229) absurdly says that Aristo­phanes, the comic poet, was born there. Naucratis.however, was the native city of a person much moreconspicuous in his day than any of the above men­tioned, viz., of Cleomenes, commissioner-general offinances to Alexander the Great, after his conquestof Aeeypt. But neither the city nor Acgypt ingeneral hail much reason to be proud of him; for hewas equally oppressive and dishonest in his admi­nistration; and having excited in the Delta ageneral feeling of discontent against the Macedonians,he was put to death by Ptolemy Lagus. (Arrian,Exp. Alex. iii. 5, vii. 23; Diodor. xviii. 14; Pseud.Aristot. (kconom. ii. 34. s. 40.) Herodotus probably landed at Naucratis, on hisentrance into Aegypt; but he did not remain there.It was, however, for some time the residence of thele^'isLitor Solon, who there exchanged his Attic oilaud honey for Aegyptian millet; and is said to have taken sundry hints for his code of laws fr-"^nstatutes of tho Pharaohs, (Plutarch, Sofoa, id) Naucratis, like so many others of the W/.iccities, W*gnn to decline after the foundation of Akx-andreia. Situated nearly 30 miles from thr sta, tfcould not compete with the most extensive ltdcommodious haven then in the world; and w:th tr<Macedonian invasion its monopoly of the M'-ii".?:-ranean traffic ceased. Its exact site is urikD-i^x,but is supposed to correspond nearly with ibx ^the modern hamlet of Salkathchar, where cnofwr'.able heaps of ruin are extant. (Niebuhr. Imrtiin Arabia, p. 97.) The coins of Naucratis a/* <the age of Trajan, and represent on th*-ir ob*?rwlaureated head of the emperor, and on their ivtr-nthe figure of Anubis, or a female holding a(Basche, Leric. Ji. Xttvior. s. r.) [\V. B. 1>) NAVILUBIO (Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; NwwJXooviwyos -noTafLO\> <\'§o\af, Ptol. ii. 6. § 41river on the N. coast of Hispunia TarTacoLEjsnow Aaria. NAU'LOCIirS, an island, or rather reef, off dSammonian promontory, in Crete (Plin. if. Vl\ ilsame as the Navmachos of Porni*mius MfU (il§ 13; Hock, Kreta, toI. i. p. 439.) [L. B. J ]NAU'LOCHUS or NAUXOCHA (Nav>mApjiian). a place on the N. ccost of Sicily, brtwMylae and Cape Pelorus. It is known only tnthe great sea-fight in which Sextus Pomp^ios *defeated by Agrippa, b. c. 36, and whi< h was :". mbetween Mylae and Nauloehus. (Suet. A*$. IAppian, B. C. v. 116—122.) [Mylae.] *F«perns himself during the battle bad It-en encan]with his land forces at Nauhxhus (Appian L c. 13and after his victory, Octavian, in his turn, toafchis station there, while Agrippa and Lejida*vanced to attack Messana. (/6. 122.) It ■> dfrom its name that Naulochus was a place wjthere was a good roadstead or anchorage *Jping; but it is probable that there was no tnwjthe name, though Silius Italicus includes it islist of Sicilian cities. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 264.) Fthe description in Appian it is clear that Asituated between Mylae and Capo /toj<vuisM» iPhalacrian Promontory of Ptolemy), and j-ro6not very far from the latter point; but tbtrnothing to fix its site more definitely. [E. H. KAU'LOCHUS (NauAoxos), a small pud or,coast of Thrace, belonging to Mrscmbria, eal*»Plinv Tetranaulochus. (Strab. vii. p. 319, ix.;Plin. iv. 11. s. 18.) NAUMACHOS. [NAtLocm-s. K«. 1.]NAUPACTUS (NoAromw: A'rA. NcowiJCpakto by the Greek peasant*, Is*pant& fciItalians), an important town of the Locri O*and the best harbour on the northern rxn*t *nCorinthian gulf, was situated just within the estof this gulf, a little east of the proraaatorT J|rhium. It is said to have derived its name frcxHeracleidae having here built the fleet witfe *they crossed over to Peloponnesus. ^Stxaip. 426; Pans. x. 38. § 10; Apollod. ii. &.Though Naupactus was indebted for its o»timportance to its harbour at the entraxscv eCorinthian gulf, it was probably originmiir eas a site for a city on account of its streamsfertile plains, and copious supply of rniiT;xxi£ 1I (Leake, Northern Greece, ToL ii. p. 6iVfr.yI the Persian wars it fell into the power of| nians, who settled there the Messcmans, vrbo bukI compelled to leave their country at tin »<i