OCR Output 272 livy. plains of Italy were pointed out as the reward of suc­cess. The Moors and Numidians he terrified with theprospect of cruel tyranny under Masinissa. Differentobjects of hope and fear were proposed to each; butto the Carthaginians, nothing but extremes, either onthe side of hope or of fear, was presented to view;the walls of their native city, their household gods,the sepulchres of their ancestors, their children, pa­rents, and wives distracted with terror; in a word,utter ruin and abject slavery, or the empire of theworld. While the general was thus employed amongthe Carthaginians, and the commanders of the severalnations among their respective countrymen, (many ofthem speaking by interpreters, being intermixed withforeigners,) the trumpets and cornets sounded on theside of the Romans; and such a shout was raised,that the elephants, particularly in the left wing, turnedabout against their own men, the Moors and Numi­dians. Masinissa, charging them while in disorder,easily drove them in, and stripped their line on thatflank of the cover of the cavalry. However, a few ofthese beasts unaffrighted, being driven forward on theRomans, made great slaughter among the light troops,but not without receiving many wounds; for springingback to the companies, and to avoid being troddenunder foot, opening a passage for the elephants, theydischarged their spears at them from both sides, beingintirely exposed as they passed through ; nor did thejavelins from the first line of troops cease until, beingdriven away from the Roman line by the weapons,showered on them, they put to flight even the Cartha­ginian cavalry in their own right wing. Ltelius, see­ing the enemy in this confusion, charged their dis­ordered troops, and put them to flight. 34. The Carthaginian line was exposed on bothflanks, not having cavalry to cover them, when theinfantry began to engage; but no longer on an equa­lity with the Roman, either in hope or in strength.There was another circumstance, which, though triflingin appearance, is yet of great consequence in action.