OCR Output ROMAN KMPIRK. courage and vigilance of the Romans; the Greeks wereoverthrown and massacred, their leaders suffered anignominious death, and the popes, however inclined tomercy, refused to intercede for these guilty victims.At Ravenna,q the several quarters of the city had longexercised a bloody and hereditary feud; in religiouscontroversy they found a new aliment of faction: butthe votaries of images were superior in numbers orspirit, and the exarch, who attempted to stem the tor­rent, lost his life in a popular sedition. To punish thisflagitious deed, and restore his dominion in Italy, theemperor sent a fleet and army into the Adriatic gulf.After suffering from the winds and waves much lossand delay, the Greeks made their descent in the neigh­bourhood of Ravenna: they threatened to depopulatethe guilty capital, and to imitate, perhaps to surpass,the example of Justinian II. who had chastised a for­mer rebellion by the choice and execution of fifty of theprincipal inhabitants. The women and clergy, in sack­cloth and ashes, lay prostrate in prayer; the men werein arms for the defence of their country; the commondanger had united the factions, and the event of abattle was preferred to the slow miseries of a siege. Ina hard-fought day, as the two armies alternately yieldedand advanced, a phantom was seen, a voice was heard,and Ravenna was victorious by the assurance of victory.The strangers retreated to their ships, but the populoussea-coast poured forth a multitude of boats; the watersof the Po were so deeply infected with blood, that du­ring six years, the public prejudice abstained from thefish of the river; and the institution of an annual feastperpetuated the worship of images, and the abhorrenceof the Greek tyrant. Amidst the triumph of the Ca­tholic arms, the Roman pontiff convened a synod of i See the 1 iber Pontificalia of Agnellus, (in the Script-ores Return Italicarum ofMuratori, torn. 2. para 1.) whose deeper shade of barbarism marks the differencebetween Rome and Ravenna. Yet we are indebted to him for some curious anddomestic fact —the quarrels and factions of Ravenna, (p. 154.) the revenge ofJustinian II. (p. 160, 161.) the defeat of the Greeks, (p. 170,171.) &c.