OCR Output ROUATItiUS. 85! BOXOLANI. hUiiM Desffodets, sent to Rome by Colbert, pub-at Paris in 1682 his work in folio, entitled Lts^'dijku antiques de Rum* mesurcs et destines. The: -a.-L.rro.enU> are very correct, and the work indis-*£.!*ble to those who would thruroughly study:aan architecture, Nulli's great plun ot' Koine,m fint that can be called an accurate one, appearedt 1745. In 1784 Piranesi published his splendidmk tin Aniichita Roman* (Home, 4 vols.fol.), con-ttxjjf the principal ruins. It was continued by3 ho, Kranceaco I'irancsi. The work of Mich.'«>erteke, Les restes de rancienne Rome (it la Have,173. 9 rok. Urge fol.), is also of prcat value. In*J appeared the A ntichita Rmnane of LuujitdsvU (Rome, 1822, large fol.). To the plans and■lorafiaCM of Caruaa in his Edijizi we have alreadyuird. Ha large map of Hume represents ofmrm baa peculiar views, but will be found useful- iJ iai-ir. Further information on the literaturetofo^raphy will be found in an excellentby the Chevalier Hun-[T. H. D.] com or rome. EuMATI'NTS. [Coscordia.]brtlEVHll/M, ■ place on llic E. coast of thepeninsula, mentioned only by OviJ, in his>—ptwn of the voyage of the Epidaurian serpent(Orid. Utt xt. 705). The geography of the■a,"* is by no means very precise; but accordingkcal topographers tlie name of Romechi is stillBard by a place on the sea-coast near Roceella,ml IS miles X. of the ruins of I.ocri (Komanelli,.up. 156. IJualtronuni, A'of. ad Barrii Cnlabr.13.) [E. H. B.] kl'MVLA. a place in Upper Pannonia, on theA trading from Aemona along the river Savtts toBbsm. {It. Ant. p. 274; Tab. real.) It isit ft the modern Carlttadt, the capital of Cro- [L. SL] tfFntxA. rn^ciA, r. 744. i.] IfMlTLEA ('PvpvAfa, Steph. B.: Buarcia), a'. { Suuiium, mentioned by I.ivy (x. 17), asK taken bj tb« Roman consul P. Dea'us, or ac­inar to others by Fabius, in the Third Sanmitew, a c 297. It is described as being a largeI -fxleot place; but seems to have afterwards■a into decay, as the name is not noticed byI s'Jbrr writer, except Stephanus of Byzantium,f *i aat fooxsd in any of the geographers. But luirraries mention a station Sub Romuln, which• ram on the Appian Way, 21 miles beyondfeasant, and 22 miles from the Pons Aufidiis. J at p. ]20). Both these stations beingurs, we may fix Bomulea, which evidently occupiediL afeure the road, on the site of the modem townlit* ii'ii^ where various ancient remains have beennnal (Romanelli, voL ii. p. 348; Cluver. Ital. Pratilli, Fa» Appia, IT. 5). [E. H. B]bJSCIATfl'M (Awarni), a town of Bruttium,»»1 en a lull about 2 miles from the sea-coast, tl» fail of Tarvntmn, and 12 miles from theI'-'i of the C rath is. The name is not found in the geographers, or mentioned by any earlier writer;but it is found in the Itinerary of Antoninus, whichplaces it 12 miles from Thurii, and is noticed byProcopius during the Gothic wars as a strong fortress,anil one of the most important strongholds in thispart of Italy, (/fin. Ant. p. 114; Procop. B. 0.iii. 30.) It was taken by Totila in a. d. 548, butcontinued throughout the middle ages to be a placeof importance, and is still one of the most consider­able towns in this part of Calabria. [E.U.B.] ROSTRUM XE.MAVIAE, a place in the centralpart of Vindelicia, on the river Virdo. {It. Ant.pp. 237. 258.) [L. S.] ROTOMAGUS ('Paro><ryoi), in Gallia Lugdu-nensis, is mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 8) as thecapital of the Veneliocasi, as the name is writtenin some editions. [Yfxloca.hses.] In the Tablethe name is written Rattomagus, with the markwhich indicates a capital town; and in the Anto-nine Itin. it occurs in the corrupted form I.atomaguson the road w-hich runs from a place called Caroco-tinuin. Ammianus (xt. 11) sjvaks of it in theplural number Rotomagi. There are said to becoins with the legend Ratumacos. Rotomagws is Rouen on the north side of theSeine, and the capital of the department of SeineInferieure. The old Gallic name was shortened toRotoinum or Rodomum, and then to Rouen, as Ko-dumna has been shortened to Roanne. The situa­tion of Rouen probably made it a town of some im­portance under the Itoman Empire, but very fewRoman remains have been found in Rotten. SomeRoman tombs havo been mentioned. [G. I..] ROXOLA'XI ('Po^oAovof), a people belonging tothe Sannatian stock, who first appear in historyabout a century before Christ, when they were foundoccupying the steppes between the I-hiieper and theDon.' (Strab. ii. p.214, vii. pp.294,306, 307,309;Plin. iv. 12; Ptol. iii. 5. §§ 19,24,25.) After­wards some of them made their footing in Dacia andbehind the Carpathians. Strabo (vii. p. 30C) hastold the story of the defeat of the Roxolani nnd theirleader Tasius by Diophantus, the general of Mithri-dates, and takes the opportunity of describing someof their manners which resembled those of the Sar-matian stock to which they belonged. Tacitus{Hist. i. 79) mentions another defeat of this people,when making an inroad into Moesia during Olho'sshort lease of power. From the inscription (Orelli,Inter. 750) which records the honours paid toPlantins Silvanus, it appears that they were alsodefeated by him. Hadrian, who kept his frontierI quiet by subsidising the needy tribes, when theycomplained about the payment came to terms withtheir king (Spartian, lladr. 6) — probably the Ras-[tarasanus of the inscription (Orelli, Inter. 833).When the general rising broko out among the Sar-matian, German and Scythian tribes from the Rhineto the Tanais in the reign of M. Aurelius, theRoxolani were included in the number. (Jul. Capit..'/. Anton. 22.) With the inroads of the Gotbsthe name of the Roxolani almost disappears. Theyprobably were partly exterminated, and partly unitedwith the kindred tribes of the Alani, and sharedthe general fate when the Huns poured down fromthe interior of Asia, crossed the lAm, and oppressedthe Alani, and, later, with the help of these, theOstro-Goths. It has been assumed that the name of the Riia-t'ALANi ( PokoAoi'oi, Ptol. iii. 5. § 24) is not dif­ferent from that of the Roxolani, who, according to 3 I 4