OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 243 Mutilus ventured to attack the Roman camp; but he wasrepulsed, and the Samnites, who while retreating were as­sailed in the rear by the Roman cavalry, left nearly 6000dead on the field of battle. It was the first notable successwhich the Romans gained in this war; the army proclaimedthe general imperator, and the sadly fallen courage of thecapital began to revive. It is true that not long afterwardsthe victorious army was attacked in crossing a river by MariusEgnatius, and so emphatically defeated that it had to retreatas far as Teanum and to be reorganized there; but the exer­tions of the active consul succeeded in restoring his army to aserviceable condition even before the arrival of winter, and hereoccupied his old position under the walls of Acerrae, whichthe Samnite main army under Mutilus continued to besiege. At the same time operations had also begun in Central CombatsItaly, where the revolt in the Abruzzi and the region of the with theFucine lake threatened the capital in dangerous proximity. Marwans.An independent corps under Gnaeus Pompeius Strabo wassent into Picenum in order that, resting for support onFirmum and Falerio, it might threaten Asculum; but themain body of the Roman northern army took its positionunder the consul Lupus on the borders of the Latin andMarsian territories, where the Valerian and Salarian high­ways brought the enemy nearest to the capital; the rivuletTolenus (Turano), which intersects the Valerian road be­tween Tibur and Alba and falls into the Velino at Rieti,separated the two armies. The consul Lupus impatientlypressed for a decision, and did not listen to the disagreeableadvice of Marius that he should exercise his men—unaccus­tomed to service—in the first instance in petty warfare. Atthe very commencement the division of Gaius Perpenna,10,000 strong, was totally defeated, whereupon the com­mander-in-chief deprived the defeated general of his com­mand and united the remnant of the corps with that whichwas under the orders of Marius, but did not allow himself tobe deterred from assuming the offensive and crossing theTolenus in two divisions, led partly by himself, partly byMarius, on two bridges constructed not far from each other.Publius Scato with the Marsians confronted them; he hadpitched his camp at the spot where Marius crossed thebrook, but, before the passage took place, he had withdrawnthence leaving behind the mere posts that guarded thecamp, and had taken a position in ambush further up the river.