OCR Output HAP. 34. ROMAN HISTORY. 251 CHAP. XXXIV. Great satisfaction in the laws and practice of the Decemviri. VV HILST all ranks were in raptures with an admi­nistration which rendered justice with so much dispatchand impartiality, the decemvirs applied themselves dili­gently in preparing their code of laws. At length theycalled an assembly of the people, big with expectation,and exposed to public view, ten tables of laws : and pray­ing, " Jt might prove beneficial, fortunate, and auspici­ous to the state, themselves and their posterity, re­quested, they would now read the laws they had pro­posed. That they had laboured, to the utmost of theircapacity, to adapt them to the circumstances of allranks, high and low; but the reflections and remarksof the whole body of the people, might make manyimprovements. They therefore exhorted the people,to examine each article with attention in private, andthen communicate to each .other their respective senti­ments, so that they may be prepared to declare inpublic, what they conceived should be added or re­trenched; that in consequence, the Roman peoplemight have laws, which they could not so properly be"said to have accepted and .confirmed, as to have dic-"tated and composed themselves." After the people had examined and commented uponevery chapter of the laws, and all necessary correctionsand amendments made, to the satisfaction of all concern­ed, the ten tables were ratified and confirmed in theComitia by centuries, and are at this day, the foundationof ail right, public or privaie, however much systems ofjurisprudence have been multiplied since. It was nowsurmised, that several regulations, which would fill twoother tables, ought to be added to the former, in orderto make.a complete code of Roman laws. This opiniongained ground, and occasioned a .proposal to continuethe decemviral government one year longer; for by thatexpedient, the people thought they would be deliveredfrom the authority of the consuls, now no less odiousthan that of kings, and they found no occasion for the