OCR Output SCAMANDBIA.SCANDIA 927 ia> Xanthoi to the yellow or brownish colour of-a oiler (romp. It vi. 4, xxi. 8). Notwithstandingaa datiiict declaration of the poet that the twoun belonged to the ura« river, l'liny (v. 33)cation* the Xanthua and Scamander as two distinct<<s>, and describes the former as flowing into the'rtai Achaeomm, after having joined the Simoeis.I regard U the colour of the water, it was believedi im even the power of dyeing the wool of sheepask diuk of it. (Ariatot llitL A mm. til 12; >~ Hut. Anim. rU], 21; Plin. ii. 106; Vitruv.a- J.I4.) Homer(/i. xxii.147, &c) sutes that theter had two sources dose to the city of Ilion, one■•lief forth hot water and the other cold, and thatur Uicae springs the Trojan women used to washej rJutbes. Strabo (xiii. p. 602) remarks that in• bme so hot spring existed in those districts; henher assert* that the river had only one source;at this was far away from Troy in Mount Ida;i lastly that the notion of its rising near Troy'at fan the circumstance of its Sowing for some-h under ground and reappearing in the oeigh-jrboud of Ilion. Homer describes the Scamandera large and deep river (//. xx. 73, xxi. 15, xxii.4\ and states that the Simoeis flowed into theanandrr, which after the junction still retained tliea» of Scamander (ft v. 774, xxi. 124; comp.'u. ii. 106; Herod, v. 65; Strab. xiii. p. 595)..iai^b Homer describes the river as large and deep,rfeiotua (vii.42) atatesthatits waters were not suf-rti u anurd drink to the army of Xerxes. Thooaoder after being joined by the Siinoeis hasI s cuorse of about 20 stadia eastward, before it^ies the eta, on the east of Cape Sigeum, thenan .V, , Kalt, Ptolemy (v. 2. § 3), and ap-nxly Pomp. Mela (i. 18), assign to each river its) xouih, the Simoeis discharging itself into the•t a point north of the mouth of the Scamander.areonnt for these discrepancies, it must beaaed that even at that time the physical changesi» aspect of the country arising from the muddyaaal* of the Scamander had produced theseHa, or alas that Ptoleiny mistook a canal for theunder. Even in the time of Strabo the Sca-jd>r reached the sea only at those seasons whenra> swollen by rains, and at other times it was lostayihes and sand. It was from this circumstance,I oex, before its junction with the Simoeis, a canalwhich flowed in a western direction intosea. south of Sigeum, so that the two riverssi each other only at times when their waters ■ hifh. Plinj, who call* the Scamander a Ra­ta rim, U in all probability thinking of the ■ canal, which is still navigable for small barges,past at which the two rivers reach the sea isfruity -*>~**E"^. "wing to the deposits atajuth, the cuast has made great advances intoan, and the Port us Achaeorum, probably a con-rue bar, baa altogether disappeared. (Comp.u, Aim Motor, p. 289, foil., and the variousu aaa tiaatiaea on the site and plain of ancientt.) P«SJLAJIA'NDBIA, a small town of Myaia, no« u: oated on the river Scamander in the plainrrt (plin. *. 33; HierocL p. 662, where it is1 -v^auaadras). Leake {Asia Minor, p. 276)Ktsrea that it stood on a hill rising below Bu-ascai An inacriptioa referring to this town isrmi is the museum at Paris (Choiaeul-Gouffier,ye Acsoreaow, torn. ii. p. 288.) [L. S.]..01WSil>A£. [AxiutsAjt, p. 302, a.] SCAMPAE. [IixTRiouM, VoL IL p. 36, b.] SCANDARIUM. [Cos.] SCANDEIA. [Cytiikra.] SCA'NDIA (J«o*«lo) or SCANDINAVIA.Until about the reign of Augustus the countriesnorth of the Cirabrian Cbersonesus were unknownto the ancients, unless we assume with some modernwriters that the island of Thule, of which Pytheasof Msssilia spoke, was the western part of what isnow sometimes called Scandinavia, that is Swedenand Norway. The 6rst ancient writer who alludesto these parts of Europe, Pomp. Mela, io the reignof Claudius, states (iii. 3) that north of the Aloisthere was an immense bay, full of large and smallislands, between which the sea fluwed in narrowchannels. No name of any of these islands is men­tioned, and Mela only states that they were inha­bited by the lienniones, the northernmost of theGerman tribes. In snother passage (iii. 6) thesame geographer speaks of an island in the SinusCodanus, which, according to the common reading,is called Codanonia, or Candanovia, for which somehave emended Scandinavia. This island is describedby him ss surpassing all others in that sea both inBize and fertility. But to say the least it is very doubt­ful as to whether he alludes to the island afterwardscalled Scandia or Scandinavia, especially as Meladescribes his island as inliabited by the Teutones.The first writer who mentious Scandia and Scandi­navia is Pliny, who, in one passage (ir. 27), like­wise speaks of the Sinus Codanus and its numerousislands, and adds that the largest of them wascalled Scandinavia; its size, he continues, is unknown,but it is inhabited by 500 pagi of Helleviones, whoregard their island as a distinct part of the world(<i//< r terrarum orbit). In another passage (iii.30) he mentions several islands to the east of Bri­tannia, to one of which he gives the name of Scan­dia. From the manner in which he speaks in thislatter passage we might be inclined to infer that heregarded Scandinavia and Scandia as two differentislands; but this appearance may arise from thefact tliat in each of the passages referred to he fol­lowed different authorities, who called the same islandby the two names Scandia and Scandinavia. Pto­lemy (u. 11. §§ 33, 34,35) speaks of a group of fourislands on the east of the Cimbrian Chersonesus,which he calls the Scandiae Insulae(2*ai'o'fat J^aoi),and of which tho largest and most eastern one iscalled Scandia, extending as far as the mouth ofthe Vistula. In all these accounts there is thefundamental mistake of regarding Scandinavia asan island, lor in reality it is connected on the north­east with the rest of Europe. Pliny speaks of animmense mountain, Sevo, in Scandinavia, which maypossibly be Mount Kjvlen, which divides Swedenfrom Norway, and a southern branch of which stillbears the name of Seve-Itj/ggen. The differenttribes mentioned by Ptolemy as inhabiting Scandiaare the Chaedini (Xcudco'of), Phavonae (vat/drat),Phiraesi {Qipduroi), Gutae (Toinai), Dauciones(Aavjuwj'es), and Levoui (Aeowvot). At a latertime, Jurnandes (as Keb. Get. p. 81, &c.) enume­rates no less than twenty-eight different tribesin Scandinavia. Tacitus does not indeed mentionScandia, but the Sitones and Suiones (whence themodern name Swede*) must unquestionably be con­ceived as the most northern among the Germantribes and as inhabiting Scandia (Germ. 44, 45).It is well known that according to Jornandes theGoths, and according to Paulus Diaconua (v. 2) tho