OCR Output 176 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. Romans; the latter came into contact with the Thraciansalone on the eastern frontier of Macedonia at the Rhodopemountains. Conflicts on It would have been no easy task for a government more the frontier, energetic than was the Roman government of that day toestablish an organized and adequate defence of the frontieragainst these wide domains of barbarism; what was donefor this important object under the auspices of the govern­ment of the restoration, did not come up to even the mostmoderate requirements. There seems to have been no want in the Alps of expeditions against the inhabitants of the Alps: in 636118- there was a triumph over the Stoeui, who were probably95. settled in the mountains above Verona; in 659 the consulLucius Grassus caused the Alpine valleys far and wide tobe ransacked and the inhabitants to be put to death, andyet he did not succeed in killing enough of them toenable him to celebrate a village triumph and to couplethe laurels of the victor with his oratorical fame. But asthe Romans remained satisfied with razzias of this sortwhich merely exasperated the natives without renderingthem harmless, and, apparently, withdrew the troops againafter every such inroad, the state of matters in the regionbeyond the Po remained substantially the same as before. in Thrace. On the Thracian frontier they appear to have given them­selves little concern about their neighbours; except that105. there is mention made in 651 of conflicts with the Thracians,97. and in 657 of others with the Meodi in the border mountainsbetween Macedonia and Thrace. in niyria. More serious conflicts took place in the Illyrian land,where complaints were constantly made as to the turbulentDalmatians by their neighbours and those who navigated theAdriatic; and along the wholly exposed northern frontier ofMacedonia, which, according to the significant expression ofa Roman, extended as far as the Roman swords and spearsreached, the conflicts with the barbarians never ceased. In135. 619 an expedition was undertaken against the Ardyaei orVardaei and the Pleraei or Paralii, a Dalmatian tribe on thecoast to the north of the mouth of the Narenta, which wasincessantly perpetrating outrages on the sea and on the op­posite coast: by order of the Romans they removed from thecoast and settled in the interior of the modern Herzegovina,where they began to cultivate the soil, but, unused to their newcalling, pined away in that inclement region. At the same