OCR Output m THE DECLINE AND FALL crown of martyrdom, and ourlmmortal reward will be liberally paid by God andposterity." 1 hese magnanimous sentiments were supported by the vigour of hisactions. He repelled the threefold attack of the Persians, improved the divisionsof their chiefs, and by a well-concerted train of marches, retreats, and successfulactions, finally chased them from the field into the fortified cities of Media andAssyria. In the severity of the winter season, Sabaraza deemed himself securein the walls of Salban; he was surprised by the activity of Heraclius, who dividedhis troops and performed a laborious march in the silence of the night. The flatroofs of the houses were defended with useless valour against the darts and torchesof the Romans: the satraps and nobles of Persia, with their wives and children,and the flower of their martial youth, were either slain or made prisoners. Thegeneral escaped by a precipitate flight, but his golden armour was the prize of theconqueror; and the soldiers of Heraclius enjoyed the wealth and repose whichthey had so nobly deserved. On the return of spring, the emperor traversed inseven days the mountains of Curdistan, and passed without resistance the rapidstream of the Tigris. Oppressed by the weight of their spoils and captives, theRoman army halted under the walls of Amida; and Heraclius informed the senateof Constantinople of his safety and success, which they had already felt by the re­treat of the besiegers. The bridges of the Euphrates were destroyed by the Per­sians; but as soon as the emperor had discovered a ford, they hastily retired to de­fend the banks of the Sarus,(l) in Cilicia. That river, an impetuoas torrent, wasabout three hundred feet broad, the bridge was fortified with strong turrets, andthe banks were lined with barbarian archers. After a bloody conflict, whichcontinued till the evening, the Romans prevailed in the assault, and a Persianof gigantic size was slain and thrown into the Sarus by the hand of the em­peror himself. The enemies were dispersed and dismayed; Heraclius pursuedMs march to Sebaste in Cappadocia; and at the expiration of three years, thesame coast of the Euxine applauded his return from a long and victorious expe­dition. (2) Instead of skirmishing on the frontier, the two monarchs who disputed the em­pire of the east, aimed their desperate strokes at the heart of their rival. Themilitary force of Persia was wasted by the marches and combats of twenty years,and many of the veterans who had survived the perils of the sword and the cli­mate, were still detained in the fortresses of Egypt and Syria. But the revengeand ambition of Chosroes exhausted his kingdom; and the new levies of subjects,strangers, and slaves, were divided into three formidable bodies. (3) The firstarmy of fifty thousand men, illustrious by the ornament and title or the goldensfiears, was destined to march against Heraclius; the second was stationed to pre­vent his junction with the troops of his brother Theodoras; and the third was com­manded to besiege Constantinople, and to second the operations of the chagan,with whom the Persian king had ratified a treaty of alliance and partition. Sabar,the general of the third army, penetrated through the provinces of Asia to thewell-known camp of Chalcedon, and amused himself with the destruction of thesacred and profane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs, while he impatiently waitedthe arrival of his Scythian friends on the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On the29th of June, thirty thousand barbarians, the vanguard of the Avars, forced thelong wall, and drove into the capital a promiscuous crowd of peasants, oitizens, andsoldiers. Fourscore thousand(4) of his native subjects, and of the vassal tribes ofGepidx, Russians, Bulgarians, and Sclavonians, advanced under the standard ofthe chagan: a month was spent in marches and negotiations, but the whole citywas invested on the 31st of July, from the suburbs of Pera and Galata to theBlachernse and seven towers; and the inhabitants descried with terror the flamingsignals of the European and Asiatic shores. In the meanwhile the magistrates ofConstantinople repeatedly strove to purchase the retreat of the chagan: but theirdeputies were rejected and insulted; and he suffered the patricians to stand before (1) At ten parasangs from Tarsus the army of the younger Cyrus passed the Sarus three plethra in breadth;the^Pjrramus, a stadium in breadth, ran five parasangs farther to the east (Xenophon, Anabas, lib. i. p. (2) George of Pisidia, (Bell. Abaricum, 246—28J. p. 49.) celebrates with truth the persevering courage ofthe three campaigns (tp=i< ariptjoo^ow;) against the Persians. (3) Petavius (Annotationesad Niccphorum, p. 82—84.) discriminates the names and actions of five Persiangenernls who were successively sent against Heraclius. (4) Thifnumber of eight myriads is specified by George of Pisidia. (Bell. Abar.219.) Thepoet (SO—38.)clearly indicates that the old chagan lived till the reign of Heraclius, and that his son and s of a foreign mother. Yet Foggini (Annotat. p. iT.) has given another interpretation to this passage.