OCR Output 314 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. ed, with whom, after the arguments on each side should befreely offered and discussed, they might agree upon someexpedient to mutual satisfaction. Cleon upon this brokeout into loud invectives against them, affirming, " he knew" beforehand that they intended nothing just or fair ; but" now their view was manifest to all, as they had absolutely" refused to have any transactions with the body of the" people, and had thus expressed a desire to negotiate with" a small committee: If their views were fair and upright," he called upon them to explain themselves in the pre-" sence of all." But the Lacedaemonians perceiving thatnothing they could urge would have any influence on thepeople, and in case, to ward off the distress they feared, theyshould make too large proposals, these offered and unac­cepted, would expose them to the censure of their confede­rates; and that further, the Athenians would not complywith their demand on any reasonable terms ; they broke ofFall further conference, and quitted Athens. The very mo­ment they return to Pylus, the truce was at an end. TheLacedaemonians re-demanded their ships according to thearticle for that purpose agreed on. But the Athenians ob­jecting some infractions to them, such as an incursion to­wards the fortress, expressly prohibited by the articles, andsome other matters of little consequence, absolutely refuseda restitution. They justified the refusal upon this expressstipulation between them, that " if the conditions were in" any degree violated, the truce should immediately be" void." The Lacedaemonians protested against these pro­ceedings, and, charging the detention of their ships with thehighest injustice, broke off all further debate and preparedfor war. Pylus was now the scene in which both these warringparties exerted their utmost efforts. The Athenians sailedthe whole day round the island with two ships in an oppo­site course : in the night, their whole fleet was stationedround it upon guard, except on that side towards the main