OCR Output an. 1493.] 129 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the sight. Let the ascent to it be* not bysteps, but by an acclivity of raised earth.And let there be neither an altar, nor a tem­ple, in any other city. For God is but one,and the nation of the Hebrews is but one. He that blasphemeth God let him bestoned,f and let him hang upon a tree all thatday: and then let him be buried in an igno­minious and obscure manner. Let those that live as remote as the boundsof the land which the Hebrews shall possess,come to that city where the temple shall be,and this three timesJ every year; that theymay give thanks to God for his former bene­fits, and may entreat him for those they shallwant hereafter: and let them, by this means,maintain a friendly correspondence with oneanother with such meetings and feastings to­gether. For it is a good thing for those thatare of the same stock, and under the sameinstitutions, not to be unacquainted with eachother; which acquaintance will be maintained"by thus conversing together, and by seeingand talking with one another, and so renew­ing the memorials of this union; for if they donot thus converse together continually, theywill appear like mere strangers to one ano­ther. Let there be taken out of your fruits atenth,|| besides that which you have allottedto give to the priests and Levites. This youmay indeed sell in the country: but it is to beused in those feasts and sacrifices that are tobe celebrated in the holy city. For it is fitthat you should enjoy the fruits of the earth,which God gives you to possess, so as may beto the honour of the donor. You are not to offer sacrifices out of the§ hire of a harlot; for the Deity is not pleasedwith any thing that arises from such abusesof nature; of which sort none can be worsethan this prostitution of the body; in likemanner no one may take the price of the co­vering of a bitch, either of one that is used inhunting, or in keeping of sheep, and thencesacrifice to God.** Let no oneff blaspheme the godsJJ whichother cities esteem such. Nor may one stealwhat belongs to strange temples, nor takeaway the gitts that are dedicated to any god. Let not any one of you wear a garmentmade of woollen|||| and linen; for that is ap­pointed to be for the priests only. When the multitude are assembled togetherunto the holy city for sacrificing: every se­venth year, at the feast of tabernacles, letthe high-priest stand upon a high desk,whence he might be heard, and let him readthe laws to all§§ the people. And let neitherwomen, children, nor servants, be hinderedfrom hearing. For it is a good thing thatthose laws should be engraven in their souls,and preserved in their memories; that so itmay not be possible to blot them out. Forby this means they will not be guilty of sin,when they cannot plead ignorance of whatthe laws have enjoined them. The laws alsowill have a great authority among them, asforetelling what they will suffer if they breakthem; and imprinting in their souls by thishearing what they command them to do.That so there may always be within theirminds that intention of the laws which theyhave despised, and broken, and have therebybeen the causes of their own mischief. Letthe children also learn the laws, as the first * This law, both here and Exod. xx. 25, 26, of notgoing up to God's altar by ladder-steps, but on an accli­vity , seems not to have belonged to the altar of the taber­nacle; which was in all but three cubits high: Exod.xxvii. 1, nor to that of Ezekiel, which was expressly to begone up to by steps, xliii. 17, but rather to occasionalaltars of any considerable altitude and largeness; as alsoprobably to Solomon's altar, to which it is here appliedby Josephus; as well as that of Zorobabel's and Herod'stemple; which were, I think, all ten cubits high. See2 Chron. iv. 1, and Joseph. Antiq. VIII. 3. And the reasonwhy these temples, and these only, were to have this as­cent on an acclivity, and not by steps, is obvious; that be­fore the invention of stairs, such as we now use, decencycould not be otherwise provided for in the loose garmentswhich the priests wore, as the law required. See Lamyof the Tabernacle and Temple, p. 444. t Levit. xxiv. 86. J Exod. xxiii. 14. Deut. xvi. 16. II Levit. xxvii. 30. § The hire of public harlots was given to Venus inSyria, as Lucian informs us, page 878. And against somesuch vile practice of the old idolaters this law seems tohave been made. ** Deut. xxiii. 18. tt The Apostolical Constitutions II. expound this lawof Moses, Exod. xxii. 28: "Thou shaltnot revile or blas­pheme the gods," of magistrates; which is a much moreprobable exposition than this of Josephus'*, of Heathengods. %t Exod. xxii. 28. IIII Levit. xix. 19. §§ What book of the law was thus publicly read, seethe note on X. 5. and 1 Esd. Ix. 60—55.