OCR Output Chap. VII. . - WARS OF THE JEWS. 269 in full peace, their daily sacrifices and purifications, and everybranch of their religious worship was still performed to Godwith the utmost exactness. Nor indeed, when the temple wasactually taken, and they were every day slain about the altar,did they leave off" the instances of their divine worship that wereappointed by their law ; for it was in the third month of thesiege before the Romans could even with'great difficulty overthrowone of the towers, and get into the temple. Now he that firstdf all ventured to get over the wall, was Faustus Cornelius theson of Sylla ; and next after him were two centurians, Furiusand Fabius ; and every one of these was followed by a cohortof his own, who encompassed the Jews on all sides, and slewthem, some of them as they were running for shelter to the tem­ple, and others as they, for a while, fought in their own defence. 5. And now did many of the priests, even when they saw theirenemies assailing them with swords in their hands, without anydisturbance, go on with their divine worship, and were slain whilethey were offering their drink-offerings, and burning their in­cense, as preferring the duties about their worship to God, beforetheir own preservation. The greatest part of them were slain bytheir own countrymen, of the adverse faction, and an innumerablemultitude threw themselves down precipices ; nay, some therewere who were so distracted among the insuperable difficultiesthey were under, that they set fire to the buildings that were nearto the wall, and were burnt together with them. Now of theJews were slain twelve thousand ; but of the Romans very fewwere slain, but a greater number was wounded. 6. But there was nothing that affected the nation so much, inthe calamities they were then under, as that their holy place,which had been hitherto seen by none, should be laid open tostrangers ; for * Pompey, and those that were about him, wentinto the temple itself, whether it was not lawful for any to enterbut the high-priest, and saw what was reposited therein, the can­dlestick with its lamps, and the table, and the pouring vessels,and the censers, all made entierly of gold, as also a great quanti­ty of spices heaped together with two thousand talents of sacredmoney. Yet did not he touch that money, nor any thing else thatwas there reposited ; but he commanded the ministers about thetemple, the very next day after he had taken it, to cleanse it, andto perform their accustomed sacrifices. Moreover, he made Hyr-canus high-priest, as one that not only in other respects hadshewed great alacrity, on his side, during the siege, but as he had been * Thus says Tacitus, Cn. Pompeius first of all subdued the Jews, and went in­to their temple, by right of conquest, Hist. B. V. ch. ix. nor did he touch any ofits riches, as has been observed on the parallel place of the Antiquities, B. XIV.ch. iv. sect. 4. out of Cicero himself.