OCR Output 226 NOTES ON THE tertaining description os this (hip, though widely different msome particulars from the above account, in Athenæus, lib. 6.cap. c. Page 34. But the truth of this is confirmed by Homer, &c.~\ Itis not however the Epirots that Homer alludes to, by a peopleunacquainted with the sea, and who knew not the use of salt: •but as, in the person of Ulysses, Homer has beautifully representedto us the image of one who passes in a regular manner from a sen­sible to an intellectual life, he very properly describes him, afterhaving braved the storms of the ocean, or the dangers and diificul-• ties attending a life subordinate to that of intellect, as destinedto arrive among a people to whom the sea was unknown, or, inother words, to live a life wholly intellectual and divine. As Pau-sanias therefore was pious, but without philosophy, he could nothave any conception of the concealed philosophical meaning ofHomer in the fable of Ulysses. Sec more concerning this, in mytranslation of, and notes to, Porphyry's Cave of the Nymphs,in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid. - Page 3 7. Pyrrhus received a -wound in his hcad.~\ It appears fromLivy, 1. 29. c. 18. and Plutarch in Pyrrho, that Pyrrhus was (lainin this manner, as a just punishment for his impiety in plunder­ing the treasuries of the temple of Proserpine. Page 39. It was my intention, indeed, &c.~] It is a circum­stance remarkably singular, that the Pythagorean philosopherNumenius was, as well as Pausanias, deterred by a dream fromdisclosing the Eleusmian mysteries. Before the extinction of thegehuine religion of mankind, indeed, and the introduction ofgigantic imfi.ly, it must have been highly improper to unfoldthese mysteries to all men: but when delusive faith succeeded toscientific theology, and divine mystery was no more, it then becamenecessary to reveal this most holy and august institution. Thi»appears to have been done by the latter Platonists: and fromsome important passages which fortunately yet remain in themanuscript Commentaries of these great men on Plate, I have- been