OCR Output 222 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. the attempt to carry along with the movement this body,without which it was impossible to attain the desired end.Attempt at Drusus drew up a proposal to withdraw the functions ofreform on jurymen from the burgesses of equestrian rating and to re-the part of B^0Te them to the senate, which at the same time was to berate aristo- Put in a position to meet its increased obligations by the ad-cracy. mission of 300 new members; a special criminal commission was to be appointed for pronouncing judgment in the caseof those jurymen, who had been or should be guilty ofaccepting bribes. By this means his immediate object wasgained; the capitalists were deprived of their political ex­clusive rights, and were rendered responsible for the per­petration of injustice. But the proposals and designs ofDrusus were by no means limited to this; his projects werenot measures adapted merely for the occasion, but a compre­hensive and thoroughly considered plan of reform. He pro­posed, moreover, to increase the largesses of grain and tocover the increased expense by the permanent issue of aproportional number of copper plated, alongside of thesilver, denarii; and then to set apart all the still undistributedarable land of Italy—thus including in particular the Cam-panian domains—and the best part of Sicily for the settle­ment of burgess-colonists. Lastly, he entered into the mostdistinct obligations towards the Italian allies to procure forthem the Roman franchise. Thus the very same supportsof power and the very same ideas of reform, on which theconstitution of Gaius Gracchus had rested, presented them­selves now on the side of the aristocracy—a singular, and yeteasily intelligible coincidence. It was only to be expectedthat, as the tyrannis had rested for its support against theoligarchy, so the latter should rest for its support againstthe moneyed aristocracy, on the paid and in some degreeorganized proletariate; while the government had formerlyaccepted the feeding of the proletariate at the expense ofthe state as an inevitable evil, Drusus now thought of em­ploying it, at least for the moment, against the moneyedaristocracy. It was only to be expected that the betterpart of the aristocracy, just as it formerly consented to theagrarian law of Tiberius Gracchus, would now readily con­sent to all those measures of reform, which, without touchingthe question of a supreme head, only aimed at the cure ofthe old evils of the state. In the question of emigrationand colonization, it is true, they could not go so far as the