OCR Output 458 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. subjects were divided and transplanted by the jealous po­licy of the conqueror.' The eastern regions of Germa­ny, which had been left vacant by the emigration of theVandals, were replenished with the Sclavonian colonists;the same tribes are discovered in the neighbourhood ofthe Hadnatic and of the Baltic, and with the name ofBaian himself, the Illyrian cities of Neyss and Lissa areagain found in the heart of Silesia. In the dispositionboth of his troops and provinces, the chagan exposed thevassals, whose lives he disregarded,1" to the first assault;and the swords of the enemy were blunted before theyencountered the native valour of the Avars.Wmr«.of The Persian alliance restored the troops of the east to Maurice > « J •gainst the the defence of Europe ; and Maurice, who had supporteda*d"'s95 ten years the insolence of the chagan, declared his reso-~60i- lution to march in person against the barbarians. In thespace of two centuries, none of the successors of Theo-dosius had appeared in the field, their lives were supinelyspent in the palace of Constantinople; and the Greekscould no longer understand, that the name of emperor,in its primitive sense, denoted the chief of the armies ofthe republic. The martial ardour of Maurice was op­posed by the grave flattery of the senate, the timid su­perstition of the patriarch, and the tears of the empressConstantina; and they all conjured him to devolve onsome meaner general the fatigues and perils of a Scy­thian campaign. Deaf to their advice and entreaty, theemperor boldly advanced1 seven miles from the capital; with tome itinerant harpers from that remote country, and only seems to hare mis­taken a trade for a nation. Tbeophylact, lib. 6. o. 2. > This, is one of the most probable and luminous conjectures of the learned countde Bunt. (Hist, des I'euples Barbaras, torn. 11. p. 546—568.) The Txechi and Serbiare found together near mount Caucasus, in Illyricum, and on the Lower Elbe.Even the wildest traditions of the Bohemians, 5ic. afford some colour to his hy­pothesis. * See Fredegarius, in the Historians of France, torn. 2. p. 432. Baian did notconceal his proud insensibility. On Touvraif (not T*7wrou?, according to a foolishemendation) Wayne* Tp Fn/taXn, in it km mpfUm yi fftiri davaTa i\mtu, aXX jusi > See the march and return of Maurice, in Theophylaot, lib. 5. c. 16. lib. 6. c. 1—3. If he were a writer of taste or genius, we might suspect him of an elegant irony:but Tbeophylact is surely harmless.