OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 33 "fight against the Amalekites, thou growest so proud, as to"bring dangers upon thyself and upon thy kingdom." 3. When Amaziah had read this letter, he was more eagerupon this expedition, which, I suppose, was by the impulse ofGod, that he might be punished for his offence against him. Butas soon as he led out his army against Joash, and they were go­ing to join battle with him, there came such a fear and conster­nation upon the army of Amaziah, as God when he is displeas­ed, sends upon men, anddiscomfitted them, even before they cameto a close fight. Now it happened, that as they were scatteredabout by the terror that was upon them, Amaziah was left alone,and was taken prisoner by the enemy; whereupon Joash threat­ened to kill him, unless he would persuade the people of Jeru­salem to open their gates to him, and receive him and his armyinto the city. Accordingly, Amaziah was so distressed, and insuch fear of his life, that he made his enemy to be received intothe city. So Joash overthrew a part of the wall, of the lengthof four hundred cubits, and drove his chariot through the breachinto Jerusalem, and led Amaziah captive along with him: bywhich means he became master of Jerusalem, and took away thetreasures of God, and carried off all the gold and silver that wasin the king's palace, and then freed the king from captivity, andreturned to Samaria. Now these things happened to the peopleof Jerusalem in the fourteenth year of the reign of Amaziah,who after this had a conspiracy made against him by his friends,and fled to the city Lachish, and was there slain by the conspi­rators, who sent men thither to kill him. So they took up hisdead body, and carried it to Jerusalem, and made a royal funeralfor him. This was the end of the life of Amaziah, because ofhis innovations in religion, and his contempt of God, when hehad lived fifty-four years, and had reigned twenty-nine. Hewas succeeded by his son, whose name was Uzziah. CHAP. X. Concerning Jeroboam, king of Israel, and Jonah the prophet; andhovo, after the death of Jeroboam, his son Zechariah took thegovernment. How Uzziah, king of Jerusalem, subdued thenations, that were round about him,- and what befell him when heattempted to offer incense to God. f 1. IN the fifteenth year of the reign of Amaziah, Jero­boam the son of Joash, reigned over Israel and Samaria, fortyyears. The king was guilty of * contumely against God, and * What I have above noted concerning Jehoash, seems to me to have been'me also concerning his son Jeroboam 11. viz. that although he began wickcdlv,