OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. successors, and the laws of the Lombards have been es­teemed the least imperfect of the barbaric codes.h Se­cure by their courage in the possession of liberty, theserude and hasty legislators were incapable of balancing thepowers of the constitution, or of discussing the nice the­ory of political government. Such crimes as threatenedthe life of the sovereign, or the safety of the state, wereajudged worthy of death; but their attention was prin­cipally confined to thedefence of the person and proper­ty of the subject. According to the strange jurispru­dence of the times, the guilt of blood might be redeemedby a fine; yet the high price of nine hundred pieces ofgold declares a just sense of the value of a simple citizen.Less atrocious injuries, a wound, a fracture, a blow, anopprobrious word, were measured with scrupulous andalmost ridiculous diligence; and the prudence of the le­gislator encouraged the ignoble practice of barteringhonour and revenge for a pecuniary compensation. Theignorance of the Lombards, in the state of Paganism orChristianity, gave implicit credit to the malice and mis­chief of witchcraft; but the judges of the seventeenthcentury might have been instructed and confounded bythe wisdom of Rotharis, who derides the absurd super­stition, and protects the wretched victims, of popular orjudicial cruelty.1 The same spirit of a legislator, superiorto his age and country, may be ascribed to Luitprand, whocondemns, while he tolerates, the impious and inveterateabuse of duels,11 observing from his own experience, thatthe juster cause had often been oppressed by successfulviolence. Whatever merit may be discovered in the "Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 28. c. 1. Les loix des Bourguignons sontassez. judicieuses; celles de Rotharis et des autres princes Lomhards le font encoreplus. 'See Leges Rotharis, no. 379. p. 47. Strigais used as the name of a witch. Itis of ihe purest classic origin; (Horat. epod. 5. 20. Petron. c. 134.) and, from thewords of Petronius, (quae striges comederunt nervostuos ?) it may be inferred that theprejudioe was of Italian rather than harhario extraction. k Quia incerte flumns de judicio Dei, et multos audivimus per pugnam sine jnstacausa suam causam perdere. Sed propter consuetudinem gen tem nostrum Langohar-dorum legem inipiam vetare non possumus. See p. 74. no. 65. of the Laws of Luit­prand, promulgated A. D. 724. 2 F 2