OCR Output SACCASENA. S71 SACRIPORTL'S. b* mm pared with Min-nagara, a town on the Indust»liT^inj to the same people. (Aman, I'tripl. Mar.trjti. § 38.) fMisnaoara.] [V.] SACCASLNA, a place in Cappadocia, probablyia ;i» neighbourhood of the modern Urgub or L'rkup.{It AmL p. 296.) [L. S.J SACCC/PODES (SaxKOTooct), according toHnimt, a name given to the people of Adiabene inAarrra (rrL p. 745). There has been a greataiming learned men as to this name, whichto be a genuine one. Bochart has(SaoKooiroScf). On theit would seem that the emendationt 1 tarhnkke is the best, who reads 2avAo>ooct.Grakird, ad Strab. rol iii. p. 225.) [V.]SACER MONS (to 'Upbv Jpos) was the namev..n ic a hill about 3 miles from Rome, across theuna and on the right of the Via Nomentana. It islrctiaoed only on occasion of the two secessions ofi- ^Vbrtan* from Home: the first of which, in B. c.'H. »u terminated by the dexterity of Menenius^rr>fa\t and gave occasion to the election of thent nam of the people. (Liv. ii. 32; Dionys. vi.5. Appian, B. C. i. I.) In memory of this treatyad fbe * Lex Sacrata " which was passed there to* frr-n it, an altar was erected on the spot, which>r«rf.«th always bore the name of "the Sacredleast.* (Dionys. vi. 90; Appian, ic). The se­ed orrasion was during the Decemvirate; whenr [irboans, who had at first seceded only to the•vstioe, on finding that this produced no effect,shitew to the Sacred Mount (Liv. iii. 52). Cicero,tiie contrary, represents the secession on thisnam as taking place first to the Sacred Mount,i thea to the Aventine (Cic. de R. P. ii. 37).anily any spot in the neighbourhood of Rome, notrkad by any existing ruins, is so clearly identified:y descriptions of ancient writers as the Saceri». both Livy and Cicero concur in placing itantra front Rome, across the Anio ; and the formerirwly tells us that the plebeians, on the second■an. proceeded thither by the Via Nomentana,rh was then called Ficulensis (Liv. ii. 32, iii. 52;l hnu. 14. pro Cornel., ap. Ascon. p. 76). Nows tr.:rj mile along the Via Nomentana brings us toant jo* across the Anio; and on the right of theti »! ibis piiint is a hill overlooking the river, inv drcree isolated from the plateau beyond, withirz il i*. however, closely connected, while its frontranii the valley of the Anio ia steep and almostripctoaa. Do ha E. side flows a small stream, descendingi the '"/vale dei Pazzi (apparently the one knownas the Rivus Clmanus): so that theof considerable strength, especiallyime. The site is nowdesignated by no peculiar nppeUra. (Jtibbv, Viniurni di Roma, vol. iii. pp. 54,) [E. H. B.] "ATHALITAE (JoxeArroi). a people upon the-*ut of Arabia Felix (Ptol. vi. 7. §§ II, 24, 25),: .pn the bay called after them Sach.ii.itksm ^ (2ax*A^'ri*' KaKwoi). Respecting the positionbav then was a difference of opinion amonggeographers, Marinus placing it towardsid Ptolemy towards the east, of the pro-(Rat Forfait). (I't«.l. i. 17. § 2,$§ I I, 46.) Marcianus (p. 23) agreesl> Piolemy; ami says that the bav extended fromfnjsnonlory to the mouth of the Persian gulf* B. *. r. 2axaA'T1f k<Sa*os). Arrian (Peripl Mar. Erylltr. p. 17. § 29) on the otherhand agrees with Marcian, and places the bay be­tween Cane and the promontory Syagrus. (See C.Miiller, ad Arrian, L c.) SACILI or SACILI MARTIAL1UM (Plin. iii. I.s. 3; called by Ptolemy 2aictAi'r, ii. 4. § 11), a townof the Turduli in Hispanin Baetica, at a place nearPerabad, now called Alcorrucen. (Morales, Antig.p. 96: Florez, Etp. Sagr. p. 147.) [T. H. D.] SA'CORA (2<o<obo), a town in the interior ofPaphlagonia, is mentioned oniy by Ptolemy (v. 4.§5). [L.S.] SACORSA (XiKopaa), a town in the interior ofPaphlagonia, is mentioned only by Ptolemy (v. 4.§6). '[L.S.] SACRA'NI, was the name given by a tradition,probably of very ancient date, to a conquering peopleor tribe which invaded Latium at a period longbefore the historical age. Festus represents themas proceeding from Reate, and expelling the Siculifrom the Septimontium, where Rome afterwards stood.He tells us that their name was derived from theirbeing the offspring of a " ver sacrum." (Fest. ». v.Sacrani, p. 321.) It hence appears probable thatthe Sacrani of Festus were either the same with thepeople called Aborigines by Dionysius (i. 16)[Aborigines], or were at least one clan or tribeof that people. But it is very doubtful whether thename was ever really used as a national appellation.Virgil indeed alludes to the Sacrani as among theinhabitants of Latium in the days of Aeneas (So-cranat acies, Am. vii. 796), but apparently as asmall and obscure tribe. Servius in his commen­tary on the passage gives different explanationsof the name, all varying from one another, andfrom that given by Festus, which is the mostdistinct statement we have upon the subject. Iuanother passage (ad Aen. xi. 317) Servius distin­guishes the Sacrani from the Aborigines, but littlevalue can be attached to his statements on suchsubjects. [E. H. B.] SACRARIA. [Ci.iti'MNus.] SACRIPORTUS (4 'Ifpoj ht/xtiv, Appian, B. C. i.87), a place in Latium, between Signia and Praeneste,celebrated as the scene of the decisive battle betweenSulla and the younger Marius, in which the latterwas totally defeated, and compelled to take refugewithin the walls of Praeneste, B.C. 82. (Liv. Epit.Ixxxvii.; Appinn, B. C. i. 87; Veil. Pat. ii. 26, 28;Flor. iii. 21. § 23; Vict. Vir.Ill. 68,75; Lucan, ii.134.) The scene of the battle is universally de­scribed as " apud Sacriportum," but with no moreprecise distinction of the locality. The name ofSacriportus does not occur upon any other occasion,and we do not know what was the meaning of thename, whether it were a village or small town, ormerely a spot so designated. But its locality maybe approximately fixed by the accounts of the battle;this is described by Appian as taking place nearPraeneste, and by Plutarch (Sull. 28) as near Signia.We learn moreover from Appian that Sulla havingbesieged and taken Setia, the younger Marius, whohad in vain endeavoured to relieve it, retreated stepby step before him until he arrived in the neigh­bourhood of Praeneste, when he halted at Sacriportus,and gave battle to his pursuer. It is thereforeevident that it must have been situated injhe plainbelow Praeneste, between that city and Signia, andprobably not far from the opening between the Albanhills and the Volscian mountains, through whichmust have lain the line of retreat of Marius; 3 k 4