OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a general distinguished by his valour and ability, had under hiscommand the city of Verona, and all the troops that were stationedin the province of Venetia. As soon as he was informed that Con足stantine was advancing towards him, he detached a large body ofcavalry, which was defeated in an engagement near Brescia, andpursued by the Gallic legions as far as the gates of Verona. Thenecessity, the importance, and the difficulties of the siege of Verona,immediately presented themselves to the sagacious mind of Con-stantine ". The city was accessible only by a narrow peninsula to足wards the west, as the other three sides were surrounded by theAdige, a rapid river which covered the province of Venetia, fromwhence the besieged derive'd an inexhaustible supply of men andprovisions. It was not without great difficulty, and after severalfruitless attempts, that Constantine found means to pass the riverat some distance above the city, and in a place where the torrentwas less violent. He then encompassed Verona with strong lines,pushed his attacks with a prudent vigour, and repelled a desperatesally of Pompeianus. That intrepid general, when he had usedevery means of defence that the strength of the place or that of thegarrison could afford, secretly escaped from Verona, anxious not forhis own but for the public safety. With indefatigable diligence hesoon collected an army sufficient either to meet Constantine in thefield, or to attack him if he obstinately remained within his lines.The emperor, attentive to the motions, and informed of the ap足proach of so formidable an enemy, left a part of his legionsto continue the operations of the siege, whilst, at the head ofthose troops on whose valour and fidelity he more particularly de足pended, he advanced in person to engage the general of Maxen-tius. The army of Gaul was drawn up in two lines, according tothe usual practice of war; but their experienced leader, perceivingthat the numbers of the Italians far exceeded his own, suddenlychanged his disposition, and reducing the second, extended the frontof his first line to a just proportion with that of the enemy. SuchVol. I. I i i evolutions,