OCR Output 994 SIC YON. SI X pTiliT 'io 9% eiea of Se! "io eaiomiit'tij Titane wxw sfialiT bn> followed by the existing foundations of the houses:they nm with mathematical precision from ME. toSW., ami from NW. to SE., thus following tlie ruleof Vitruv'ms. Kew of the ruins rise above theground; hut there is a Roman building better pre-herved, in id containing several chambers, which liesnear the ridge separating the two levels of the hill.Leake supposes that this building was probably thepraetorium of the Roman governor during the periodbetween the destruction of Corinth by Mummiusand its restoration by Julius Caesar, when Sicyoiiwas the capital of the surrounding country; butmore recent observers are inclined to think that theruins are those of baths. West of this building arethe theatre and the stadium; and the modern roadwhich leads from Vaiilibd to Stymphalus runs be­tween this Roman building and the theatre, and thenthrough a portion of the stadium. The theatre wascut out of the rock, separating the two levels of tliehill, as already described; its total diameter wasabout 400 feet, and that of the orchestra 100. Eachwing was supported by a mass of masonry, pene­trated by an arched passage. To the NW. of the.theatre arc the remains of the stadium, of which thetotal length, including the seats at the circular end,is about 680 feet. Col. Leake remarks that " thestadium resembles that of Messene, in having hadseats which were not continued through the wholelength of the sides. About 80 feet of the recti­linear extremity had no seats; and this part, insteadof being excavated out of the hill like the rest, isformed of factitious ground, supported at the end bya wall of polygonal masonry, which still exists."There are also, in various parts of the hill, remainsof several subterraneous aqueducts, which suppliedthe town with water. The opening of one of themis seen on the SE. side of the theatre; and there isanother opening now walled up W. of the modernvillage. The tyrant Nicocles escaped through thesesubterraneous passages when Sicyon was taken byA rat us. (I'lut. Arat. 9.) V. Topography of the Sicyonia.— The territoryof Sicyon was very small, and, in fact, was littlemore than the valley of the Asopus. In the upperpart of its course the valley of the Asopus is con-lined between mountains, but near the sea it opensout into a wide plain, which was called AsoriA.("Aewrfaj Sirab. viii. p. 382, ix. p. 408; Pans. ii.1. § 1.) This plain was celebrated for its fertility(ji^ya typnvt'tv cjrl tw rb Hikvu/viov irt&tov ytwpyui',Lucian, /carom, c. 18), and was especially adaptedfor the cultivation of the olive. ("Sicyoma Dacca,"Virg. Georg. ii. 519; Or. Kp. ex Punt. iv. 15. 10;Stat Tktb. iv. 50.) The neighbouring sea suppliedan abundance of excellent fish. (Athen. i. p. 27.)Ii was separated from the Corinthia on the E. bythe river Nemea, and from the territory of PelletMi»n the W. by the Sythas; and on the S. it wasliounded by the territories of PhHus and Cleonat.At one time the territory of Sicyon must have ex­tended even beyond the Sythas, since Goncssa orI)onlssa, which lay W. of this river, is describedby Pausanuu as belonging to the Sicyonians, [I'kl-lkne, p. 571, a.] Between the Helisaon and theSythas w'as probably the river Selleeis, with theneighbouring village of Ephyra, mentioned bySirabo (viii p. 338). [EpHTRA, No. 3.] Sixty-stadia S. of Sicyon, and near the frontiers of Phltasia,was Titans or Titana, the most important of thedependencies of Sicyon. [Titane.] Forty stadiaDryond Titane was 1'hlius; but this road, which was too narrow for car road from Sicyon to Phito the right of the A-opithrough Titane to the lethese (wo roads, at the iSicyon, was a sacred groviEumenides. { I'a - ii. 11was Epieieia, on the rivethe same direction was iXeo. //<//. vii. l. § 22.)rhoebia, taken by Epithrough the valley of thtsame place as Buphia.412) mentions a deinu*(Hagen, Sicyonia, Kegcyoniacorum Sf#c, Bernbrik, Lh Sicytmuxt TopiLeake, Aforta, vol. iiifccherches, 4c. p. 30. &iponnes, p. 39, seq.; Cup. 482, seq.; Beule", .p. 343, seq.) SIDAE (5/5a«), a ffor its pomegranates. ]this fruit ffi'Sn. thoughf>otd. As the A1 •with the Uoeotians for tlmust have been upon Iits exact site is unkno651.) SIDE (2i'5tj: Eth. Xharbour on the coast of Iwest of the river Melas,(Stool Mar. Mag. §!founded by Cumae inp. 40; Strab. xiv. p. 66s. v.; Pomp. Mela, i. 11who admits the Cumaeaia tradition current at Siithe Sidetae were the mafrom Cumae, but soon itheir new home forgotformed a peculiar idiomnot understood even by!When Alexander appearand received a MacedoniAtitiochus the Great, a loff Side between the fleeby Hannibal, and thatthe former was defeated,23, 24.) IVlybius (v.great enmity between tpeudus. At the time wtheir highest power in lSide their principal portdispose of their prison(Strab. xiv. p. 664.) 9considerable importanceand in the ultimate cbecame the metropolis ol tWfaiicraa o^ jo BapiidpirarfciiqGiiqGft o^ jo s;»nu.»pu*f*iiq£n.