OCR Output CHAP. L. 347 with vigour and address; and his son Yezid, a feebleand dissolute youth, was proclaimed as the commanderof the faithful and the successor of the apostle of God.Death of A familiar story is related of the benevolenceA^ixeao of one of the sons of Ali. In serving at table, aOct. 10. slave had inadvertently dropped a dish of scald­ing broth on his master: the heedless wretch fell pros­trate, to deprecate his punishment, and repeated a verseof the Koran. Paradise is far those who command theiranger.—I am not angry.—And for those who pardon of­fences.—I pardon your offence.—And for those who re­turn good for evil.—I give you your liberty, and fourhundred pieces of silver. With an equal measure ofpiety, Hosein, the younger brother of Hassan, inheriteda remnant of his father's spirit, and served with honouragainst the Christians in the siege of Constantinople.The primogeniture of the line of Hashem, and the holycharacter of grandson of the apostle, had centred in hisperson, and he was at liberty to prosecute his claimagainst Yezid, the tyrant of Damascus, whose vices hedespised, and whose title he had never deigned to ac­knowledge. A list was secretly transmitted from Cufato Medina, of one hundred and forty thousand Moslems,who professed their attachment to his cause, and whowere eager to draw their swords as soon as he shouldappear on the banks of the Euphrates. Against theadvice of his wisest friends, he resolved to trust hi$ personand family in the hands of a perfidious people. He tra­versed the desert of Arabia with a timorous retinue ofwomen and children; but as he approached the confinesof Irak, he was alarmed by the solitary or hostile face ofthe country, and suspected either the defection or ruinof his party. His fears were just: Obeidollah, the go­vernor of Cufa, had extinguished the first sparks of aninsurrection; and Hosein, in the plain of Kerbela, wasencompassed by a body of five thousand horse, who in<-tercepted his communication with the city and the river.