OCR Output an. J052.] 279 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and the materials were strong stones, andsuch as would resist the force of time; thesewere to unite themselves with the earth, andbecome a basis for a sure foundation for thatedifice which was to be erected; they wereto be so strong, in order to sustain with easethose vast superstructures, and precious or­naments, whose own weight was to be notless than the weight of those high and heavybuildings which the king designed to be veryornamental and magnificent. They erectedits entire body quite up to the roof, of whitestone. Its height was sixty cubits, its lengthwas the same, and its breadth twenty. Therewas another building, erected over it equalto it in its measures. So that the entire alti­tude of the temple, was a hundred and twentycubits. Its front was to the east. As to theporch, they built it before the temple. Itslength was twenty cubits, and it was so or­dered that it might agree with the breadthof the house; and it had twelve cubits inlatitude, and its height was raised as high asa hundred and twenty cubits. He also builtround about the temple thirty small rooms,which might include the whole temple, bytheir closeness to each other, and by theirnumber, and outward position round it. Healso made passages through them, that theymight be come into one through another.Every one of these rooms* had five cubits inbreadth, and the same in length, but in heighttwenty. Above these were other rooms, andothers above them equal both in their mea­sures and number; so that these reached toa height equal to the lower part of the house;for the upper part had no buildings about it.The roof that was over the house was ofcedar: and each of these rooms had a roof ofits own that was not connected with the other rooms: but for the other parts, there was acovered roof common to them all, and builtwith very long beams that passed through therest, and through the whole building; that sothe middle walls being strengthened by thesame beams of timber, might be thereby madefirmer. But as for that part of the roof thatwas under the beams, it was made of thesame materials, and was all made smooth,and had ornaments proper for roofs, andplates of gold nailed upon them. And as heinclosed the walls with boards of cedar, sohe fixed on them plates of gold, which hadsculptures upon them: so that the wholetemple dazzled the eyes of such as entered,by the splendour of the gold that was onevery side. Now the whole structure of thetemple was made with great skill, of polishedstones, and those laid together so verysmoothly and harmoniously, that there ap­peared to the spectators no sign of anyhammer, or other instrument of architecture;fbut as if, without any use of them, the entirematerials had naturally united themselvestogether; that the agreement of one partwith another seemed rather to have beennatural, than to have arisen from the forceof tools upon them. The king also had afine contrivance for an ascent to the upperroom over the temple; and that was by stepsin the thickness of its wall. For it had nolarge door on the east end as the lower househad; but the entrances were by the sides,through very small doors. He also overlaidthe temple both within and without withboards of cedar, that were kept close toge­ther by thick chains: so that this contrivancewas in the nature of a support to the building.Now when the king had divided the templeinto two parts,:}; he made the inner house of but the many courte and offices that were about it made thewhole a vast pile, and the exqnisiteness of the art, andthe fewness of the artists that could be employed about it,made a longer time requisite. It must be owned however,that, considering all things, Solomon made an extraordi­nary despatch; for, if the building of Diana's temple atEphesus employed all Asia for the space of two hundredyears, and no less than three hundred and sixty thousandmen, for twenty years together, were taken up in erectingone pyramid, (as Pliny, lib. 36. c. 12. affirms,) no rea­sonable man can wonder, that this temple was seven yearsand a half in building. Pool's Annotations, and CalmefsCommentary. B. * These small rooms, or side chambers about the loweritixty cubits of the holy house, seem to have been, by Josephus's description, in the three stories one aboveanother, no less than twenty cubits high a piece. Other­wise there must have been a large interval between one,and the other that was over it; and this with double floors,the one of six cubits distance from the floor beneath it, as1 Kings vi. 5. in the Septuagint, and the other of no lessthan twenty cubits. t See 1 Kings vi. 7. J These several parts of the temple the Greeks arevery careful to distinguish by different names. What wasproperly the temple, they called "o vows; and the courtsand other parts of the temple, to ispov. Thus whenZar.harias is said to have gone into the temple to burn in­cense, Luke i. 9. (which was done in the sanctum,) theword is vows; but when it is said, that Anna the prophetess