OCR Output 82 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. Sicilian militia, and in capturing his camp. By this meansalmost the whole island came into the power of the insur­gents, whose numbers, according to the most moderateestimates, are alleged to have amounted to 70,000 mencapable of arms. The Romans found themselves compelled134-132. for three successive years (620-622) to despatch consuls andconsular armies to Sicily, till, after several undecided andeven some unfavourable conflicts, the revolt was at lengthsubdued by the capture of Tauromenium and of Enna.The most resolute men of the insurgents threw themselvesinto the latter town, in order to defend themselves in thatimpregnable position with the determination of men whodespair of deliverance or of pardon; the consuls LuciusCalpurnius Piso and Publius Rupilius lay before it fortwo years, and reduced it at last more by famine than byarms.* These were the results of the preventive police system, asit was handled by the Roman senate and its officials inItaly and the provinces. While the task of getting quit ofthe proletariate demands and only too often transcends thewhole power and wisdom of a government, its repressionby measures of police on the other hand is for any largercommonwealth comparatively easy. It would be well withstates, if the unpropertied masses threatened them withno other danger than that with which they are menaced bybears and wolves; only the timid and those who trade uponthe silly fears of the multitude prophesy the destruction ofcivil order through servile revolts or insurrections of the pro­letariate. But even to this easier task of restraining theoppressed masses the Roman government was by no meansequal, notwithstanding the profound peace and the inex­haustible resources of the state. This was a sign of itsweakness; but not of its weakness alone. By right theRoman governor was bound to keep the highways clear andto have the robbers who were caugnt crucified, if they wereslaves; and that as a matter of course, for slavery is notpossible without a reign of terror. At this period inSicily a razzia was occasionally no doubt set on foot by thegovernor, if the roads were too insecure; but, in order not todisoblige the Italian planters, the captive robbers were * Even now there are not unfrequently found in front of Castrogiovanni, atthe point where the ascent is least abrupt, Roman projectiles with the name133. of the consul of 621: L. Piso L. f. cos.