OCR Output 18 JERUSALEM. JKRUSALEM. Jehoshaphat is occupied by a high rocky ridge orswell of land, which attains its highest elevation alittle without the north-west angle of the presenttown. The city, then, occupied the termination ofthis broad swell of land, Wing isolated, except on thenorth, by the two great valleys already described,towards which the ground declined rapidly from allpart* of the city. This rocky promontory is, how-erer, broken by one or two subordinate valleys, andthe declivity is not uniform. (3) There is, for example, another valley, veryinferior in magnitude to those which encircle thecity, but of great importance in a topographical view,as being the main geographical feature mentionedby Josephus in his description of the city. Thisvalley of the Tyropoeon (cheese -makers) meets theValley of Ilinnom at the Tool of Siloam, very nearits junction with the Valley of Jehoshaphat, and ranbe distinctly traced through the city, along the westside of the Temple enclosure, to the Damascus gate,where it opens into a small plain. The level of thisTslley, running as it does through the midst of acity that has undergone such constant vicissitudesand such repeated destruction, has of course beengreatly raised by the desolations of so many gene­rations, but is so marked a feature in modem as informer times, that it is singular it was not atonce recognised in the attempt to re-distribute theancient Jerusalem from the descriptions of Josephus.It would be out of place to enter into the argumentsfor this and other identifications in the topographyef ancient Jerusalem; the conclusions only can liestated, and the various hypotheses must be soughtin the works referred to at the end of the article. Hills. — Ancient Jerusalem, according to Jo­sephus, occupied M two eminences, which fronted eachother, and were divided by an intervening ravine, atthe brink of which the closely-built houses termi­nated," This ravine is the Tyropoeon, already re­ferred to, and this division of the city, which thehistorian observes from the earliest period, is of theutmost importance in the topography of Jerusalem.The two hills and the intermediate valley are moreminutely described as follows: — (1) The Upper City.—" Of these eminences, thatwhich had upon it the Upper City was by much theloftier, and in its length the idraitrr. This emi­nence, then, for its strength, used to be called thestronghold by king David,.... but by us it was calledthe Upper Agora. (2) The IsOtcer City.—"Theothereminence, whichwas called A era, and which supported the LowerCity, was in shape gibbous (oV^<ki>0tos). (3) The Temple Mtmnt.—* Opposite to this latterwas a third eminence, which was naturally lowerthan Acra, and was ones separated from it by anotherbroad ravine: but afterwards, in the times when theAsmonaeans reigned, they filled up the ravine,wishing to join the city to the Temple; and having1 er«lied the summit of Acra, they made it lower, sothat in this quarter also the Temple might be seenrising above other objects. 44 But ths ravine called the Tyropoeon (cheese-makers), which wo mentioned as dividing the emi­nences of the L'jiper City and the Lower, reaches toSiliom; for so w« call the nynn», both sweet andabundant. But on their outer sides the two emi­nences of the city were hemmed in within deepravines, and, by reason of the preei|iices on eitheraide, tliert waa no approach to them from anyquarter." (B. JwL v. 4, 3.) This, then, was the disposition of the ancient citr,on which a few remarks must be made befiwe weproceed to the new city. The two-fold division,which, as has been said, is recognised by Josephs*from the first, is implied also in the sacred narrative,not only in the account of its capture by the Israelite*,and subsequently by David, but in all such passagesns mention the city of David or Mount Sion aa dis­tinct from Salem and Jerusalem. (Coinp, Josh. it.63; Judges, i. 8, 21; 2 Sam. t. 6—9; Psalms,lxxvi. 2, &c.) The account given by Josephus oil"tiie taking of the city is this: that '* the Israelites,having besieged it, after a time took the I-owexCity, but the Upper City was hard to be takenby reason of the Mrcngth of its walls, and the natureof its positiun" (Ant. v. 2. § 2); and, subse­quently, that "David laid siege to Jerusalem, andtook the Lower City by assault, while the citadelstill held out" (vii. 3. § 1). Having at length gotpossession of the Upper City also, " he encircled thetwo within one wall, so as to form one body1* (§ 2).This could only be effected by taking in the inter­jacent valley, which is apparently the part calledMillo. (4) But wlwn in process of time the city over­flowed its old boundaries, the hill Bezetlia, or SewCity, was added to the ancient hills, as is thuadescribed by Josephus:—"The city, being over-abundsnt in population, began gradually to creepbeyond its old walls, and the people joining to thecity the region which lay to the north of the templeand close to the hill (of Acra), advanced consider­ably, so that even a fourth eminence was surroundedwith habitations, viz. that which is called Uezetha,situated opposite to the Antonia, and divided from itby a deep ditch; for the ground had been cut throughon purpose, that the foundations of the Antoniamight not, by joining the eminence, be easy of ap­proach, and of inferior height." The Antonia, it is necessary here to add, in anti­cipation of a more detailed description, was a castlesituated at the north-western angle of the outerenclosure of the Temple, occupying a precipitousrock 50 cubits high. It is an interesting fact, and a convenient one tofacilitate a description of the city, thst the severalparts of thi* ancient city are precisely coincident withthe distinct quarters of modern Jerusalem: for that,1st, the Armenian and Jewish quarters, with theremainder of Mount Sion, now excluded from tbwwalls, composed the Upper City; 2dly, the Ma-hommedan quarter corresponds exactly with theLower City; Sdly, that the Haram-ea-Sherif, orNoble Sanctuary, of the Moslems, occupies the TempleMount; and 4thty, that the llaret (quarter) Bab-el-Hitta is the declivity of the hill Beictha, whichattains its greatest elevation to the north of themodern city wall, but was entirely included withinthe wall of Agripp-i, together with a considerablespace to the north and west of the Lower City, in­cluding all the Christian quarter. The several parts of the ancient city were enclosedby distinct walb, of which J.wephu* eivcs a minutedescription, which must be noticed in detail, as fur*lushing the fullest account we have of the city as itexisted during theKoman period; a description which,as far as it relates to the Old city, will serve for theelucidation of the ante-Bahylmtsh rn|utal, — as it isclear, from the iircount of the rebuilding of the wallsby Kehemiah (iii., vi.). that the new fortificationsfollowed the course of the ancient enceinte.