OCR Output C. IX.J THE SIEGE. 201 been injured? Will not you turn again and look back, andconsider whence it is that you fight with such violence, andhow great a supporter you have profanely abused ? Will notyou recall to mind the prodigious things done for your fore­fathers and this holy place, and how great enemies of yourswere by him subdued under you ? I even tremble myself indeclaring the works of God before your ears that are un­worthy to hear them; however, hearken to me, that you maybe informed how you fight not only against the Romans, butagainst God himself. In old time there was one Necao, kingof Egypt, who was also called Pharaoh ; he came with a pro­digious army of soldiers, and seized Queen Sarah, the motherof our nation. What did Abraham our progenitor then do?Did he defend himself from this injurious person by a war,although he had three hundred and eighteen captains underhim, and an immense army under each of them. Indeed,he deemed them to be no number at all without God's assist­ance, and only spread out his hands towards this holy place,1which you have now polluted, and reckoned upon him asupon his invincible supporter, instead of his own army. Wasnot our queen sent back, without any defilement, to her hus­band the very next evening ? while the king of Egypt fledaway, adoring this place, which you have defiled by shed­ding thereon the blood of your own countrymen; and healso trembled at those visions which he saw in the nightseason, and bestowed both silver and gold on the Hebrews,as on a people beloved by God. Shall I say nothing, orshall I mention the removal of our fathers into Egypt, whewhen they were used tyrannically, and were fallen under thepower of foreign kings for four hundred years together, andmight have defended themselves by war and by fighting, didyet do nothing but commit themselves to God? Who is 1 Josephus supposes, in this his admirable speech to tho Jews, that notAbraham only, but Pharaoh, king of Egypt, prayed towards a temple at Je­rusalem, or towards Jerusalem, itself, in which were Mount Zion and MountMoriah, on which the tabernacle and temple did afterwards stand ; and thislong before either the Jewish tabernacle or temple was built. Nor is thefamous command given by God to Abraham to go two or three days' journeyon purpose to offer up his son Isiac there, unfavorable to such a notion.