OCR Output 258 [BOOK VJI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. her native city lying at the last extremity,ascended upon the wall, and by means of thearmed men, called for Joab; and when hecame to her, she said, "God ordained kingsand generals of armies that they might cut offthe enemies of the Hebrews, and introducean universal peace among them; but thou artendeavouring to overthrow and depopulate acity of the Israelites, which hath been guiltyof no offence." But he replied, "God con­tinue to be merciful unto me; I am disposedto avoid killing any one of the people, muchless would I destroy such a city as this: and,if they will deliver me up Sheba, the son ofBichri, who hath rebelled against the king, Iwill raise the siege, and withdraw my armyfrom the place." Now as soon as the womanheard what Joab said, she desired him tointermit the siege a little while; for that heshould have the head of his enemy thrownout to him presently. So she went down tothe citizens, and said to them, "Will you beso wicked as to perish miserably, with yourchildren and wives, for the sake of a vile fel­low; and one whom nobody knows? And willyou have him for your king instead of David,who has been so great a benefactor to you,and oppose your city alone to such a mightyand strong army?" So she prevailed withthem, and they cut off the head of Sheba, andthrew it into Joab's army. When this wasdone the king's general sounded a retreat,and raised the siege.* And when he was come to Jerusalem he was again appointedto be general of all the people. The kingalso constituted Benaiah captain of theguards,! and of the six hundred men: andset Adoiam over the tribute, and }Sabathesand Achilaus over the records. He alsomade Sheva die scribe, and appointed Zadokand Abiathar to be the high-priests. CHAP. XII. OF THE DELIVERANCE OF THE HEBREWS FROH A FAMINE,WHEN THE GIBEONITES HAD CAUSED PUNISHMENT TO BEINFLICTED FOR THOSE OF THEM THAT HAD BEEN SLAIN;AND OF THE GREAT ACTIONS l'ERFORMED AGAINST THKPHILISTINES BY DAVID AND HIS ADHERENTS. AFTER this,J| when the country wasgreatly afflicted with a famine, Davidbesought God to have mercy on the people,and to discover to him what was the cause ofit, and how a remedy might be found for thatdistemper. The prophets§ answered, thatGod would have the Gibeonites avenged,whom Saul was so wicked as to betray toslaughter; and had not observed the oathwhich Joshua the general, and the senate,had sworn to them: and that if the kingwould permit such vengeance to be takenfor those that were slain as the Gibeonitesshould desire, God would be reconciled tothem, and free the multitude from their mise­ries. As soon therefore as David understoodthis, he sent for the Gibeonites, and asked verness in this city; for though that office was most com­monly occupied by men, yet there want not instances ofwomen, (as in the case of Deborah, Judg. iv. 4, and QueenAthaiiah, 2 Kings xi,) who have been employed in theadministration of civil affairs. If she was invested withany such authority, she was the properest person to de­sire a parley with the general; and good reason she hadto desire it, because she knew the present temper andfear of the citizens and soldiers, viz. that considering theimminent danger they were in, they were generally de­sirous of peace, and restrained from it only by Sheba'spower and authority. Pool's Annotations. In the be­ginning of this woman's speech to Joab, there is some­thing that seems both abrupt and obscure. They werewont to speak in old time, saying, They should surelyask counsel at Abel, and so they ended the matter, 2 Sam.xx. 18: according to this translation, the sense of theword is,—" This city, which thou art about to destroy, isno mean and contemptible one, but so honourable andconsiderable for its wisdom, and the wise people in it,that when any difference did arise among any of theneighbouring places, they used proverbially to say, Wewill ask the opinion and advice of the men of Abel aboutit, and we will stand to their arbitration; and so all parties were satisfied, and disputes ended." So that her words,according to this sense, are a high commendation of thecity of Abel, for its being a place, (time out of mind,)very eminent for the wisdom and prudence of its inhabit­ants. But there is another translation in the margin olour Bible, which seems to be more natural, and makesthe woman speak in this manner:—M When the peoplesaw thee lay siege to the city, they said, Surely he will.ask, if we will have peace; for the law prescribes-, thathe should offer peace to strangers, much more then toIsmelitish cities; and if he would once do this,. we shouldsoon bring things to an amicable agreement; for we arepeaceable people, and faithful to our prince." So that,according to this interpretation, the woman both modestlyreproved Joab for the neglect of his duty, and artfullyengaged him in the performance of it. Patrick's Com­mentary, and Pool's Annotations. B. * 2 Sam. xx. 22. t Cherethites and Pelethites, 2 Sam. xx. 23. I Jehoshaphat, the son of Aliud, Heb. and Septuagint,2 Sam. xx. 24. || About an. 1062 B. C. § Perhaps the two high-priests, Zadok and Abiathar.