OCR Output 34 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. As soon as this was done, the servants ofLaban brought the camels in, and took careof them, and the stranger was himself broughtin to supper by Laban, and. after supper hesaid to him, and to the mother of the damsel,addressing himself to her, Abraham is the sonof Terah, and a kinsman of yours: for Nahor,the grandfather of these children, was thebrother of Abraham, by both father andmother, upon which account he hath sent meto you, being desirous to take this damsel forhis son to wife. He is his legitimate son, andis brought up as his only heir. He couldindeed have had the most happy of all thewomen in that country for him, but he wouldnot have his own son marry any of them outof regard to his own relations. I would not,therefore, have you despise his affection; forit was by the good pleasure of God that otheraccidents fell out in my journey, and thatthereby I met with your daughter and yourhouse; for when I was come near your city, Isaw a great many maidens coming to a well,and I prayed that I might meet with thisdamsel, which has come to pass accordingly.Do you therefore confirm that marriage,whose espousals have been already made bya divine appearance, and shew the respectyou have for Abraham, who has sent me withso much solicitude, in giving your consent tothe marriage of this damsel." Upon this they understood it to be thewill of God, and greatly approved of theoffer, and sent their daughter,* as was de­sired, f Accordingly Isaac married her, theinheritance being now come to him: for thechildren of Keturah were gone to their ownremote habitations. CHAP. XVII. OF ABRAHAM S DEATH AND BURIAL. A LITTLE while after this Abrahamdied ;J he was a man of incomparablevirtue, and honoured by God in a manneragreeable to his piety towards him. Thewhole time of his life was one hundred andseventy-five years,|| and he was buried inHebron with his wife Sarah, by their sonsIsaac and Ismael. CHAP. XVIII. OF THE NATIVITY AND EDUCATION OF ESAU AND JACOB. ISAAC'S wife proved with child,§ after thedeath of Abraham; and when she wasfar advanced in her pregnancy, Isaac wasvery anxious, and inquired of God; who an­swered, that Rebeka should bear twins, andthat two nations should take the names ofthose sons: and that he who appeared thesecond, should excel the elder.** Accordinglyshe in a little time, as God foretold, gavebirth to twins; the elder of whom, from hishead to his feet was very rough and hairy;but the younger took hold of his heel as theywere in the birth. Now the father loved theelder, who was called Esau: a name agreeableto his roughness, for the Hebrews call such anhairy roughness Esauff for Seir; but Jacobthe younger was best beloved by his mother.When there was a famine in the land, Isaacresolved to go into Egypt, the land therebeing good; but he went to Gerar, as Godcommanded him. Here Abimelech, the king * Gen. xxiv. 59. t When Kebeka was sent away, it appears that hernurse accompanied her. Nurses were formerly held invery high esteem, and considered as being entitled toconstant and lasting regard. "The nurse in an Easternfamily is always an important personage. Modern travel­lers inform us, that in Syria she is considered as a sort ofsecond parent, whether she has been foster-mother orotherwise. She always accompanies the bride to herhusband's house, and ever remains there an honouredcharacter. Thus it was in ancient Greece." Siege ofAcre, b. ii. p. 35. Note. Rebeka upon leaving her family received their bless­ing. Nuptial benedictions were used both by the Jews,Greeks, and Romans. That of the Jews was in thisform: "Blessed be thou, O Lord, who hast created manand woman, and ordained marriage, &c." This was re­peated every day during the wedding week, provided there were new guests. The Grecian form of bene­diction was, aoaSri ru^i]. The Latin was, Quod faustumfelixque sit. The Jews constantly made use of the sameform, but the Greeks and Romans frequently varied theirs:a benediction, however, in some form, was always used.See Selden de Jure, N. et G. 1. 5. c. 19. B. I An. 1862. II Gen. xxv. 7. § The birth of Jacob and Esau is here said to be afterAbraham's death; it should have been after Sarah's deathThe chronology here certainly shews the other to be amistake. The order of the narration in Genesis, notalways exactly according to the order of time, seems tohave led Josephus into it, as Dr. Bernard observes here. ** Gen. xxv. 23. Tt For Seir, in Josephus, the coherence requires thatwe read Esau or Seir -, which signifies the same thing.