OCR Output AN. 128.] 479 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. "Fanius, the son of Marcus, the praetor,gathered the senate together, on the eighthday before the ides of February, in the senatehouse: when Lucius Manlius, the son of Lu­cius, of the Mentine tribe, and Caius Sempro-nius, the son of Caius, of the Falernian tribe,were present. The occasion was that theambassadors sent by the *people of the Jews,Simon the son of Dositheus, Apollonius theson of Alexander, and Diodorus the son ofJason, who were good and virtuous men, hadsomewhat to propose about that league offriendship and mutual assistance which sub­sisted between them and the Romans; andabout other public affairs: who desired thatJoppa, and the havens, and Gazara, and thesprings of Jordan, and the several other citiesa nd countries of theirs, which Antiochus hadtaken from them in the war, contrary to thedecree of the senate, might be restored tothem: and that it might be lawful for theking's troops to pass through their country,and the countries of those that are subject tothem. And that what attempts Antiochushad made during that war, without the de­cree of the senate, might be made void;and that they would send ambassadors, whoshould take care that restitution be madethem of what Antiochus had taken fromthem; and that they should make an esti­mate of the country that had been laid wastein the war; and that they would grant themletters of protection to the kings, and freepeople; in order to their quiet return home.It was therefore decreed, as to these points, torenew their league of friendship and mutualassistance with these good men, who weresent by a good and a friendly people." But as to the letters desired, their answerwas, that the senate would consult aboutthat matter, when their own affairs wouldgive them leave: and that they would en­deavour for the time to come, that no likeinjury should be done them: and that theirpraetor Fanius, should give them money outof the public treasury, to bear their ex­penses home. And thus did Fanius dismiss the Jewish ambassadors, and gave themmoney out of the public treasury; and gavethe decree of the senate to those that wereto conduct them, and to take care that theyshould return home in safety. j And thus stood the affairs of Hyrcanus,the high-priest. But as for king Demetrius,who was inclined to make war against Hyr­canus, there was no opportunity for it; whileboth the Syrians, and the soldiers, bare illwill to him, because he was an ill man. Butwhen they had sent ambassadors to PtolemyPhyscon, that he would send them one of thefamily of Seleucus, in order to take the king­dom; and he had sent them Alexander, whowas called Zebina, with an army, and therehad been a battle between them, Demetriuswas defeated, and fled to Cleopatra, his wife,to Ptolemais; but his wife would not receivehim. He went thence to Tyre, and wasthere caught; and fwhen he had sufferedmuch from his enemies, he was slain bythem. So Alexander took the kingdom, andmade a league with Hyrcanus. Yet whenAlexander afterward fought with Antiochus,the son of Demetrius, who was called Gry-pus, he was also defeated and slain.! CHAP. X. UPON THE QUARREL BETWEEN ANTIOCHUS GRYPUS ANDANTIOCHUS CYZICENUS RESPECTING THE KINGDOM, HYR­CANUS TAKES AND DEMOLISHES SAMARIA; AND AFTER­WARD JOINS HIMSELF TO THE SECT OF THE SADDUCEES. WHEN Antiochus had taken the king­dom, he was afraid to make waragainst Judea; because he heard that hisbrother by the same mother, who was alsocalled Antiochus, was raising an army againsthim out of Cyzicum. So he stayed in hisown land; and resolved to prepare himselffor the attack he expected from his brother,who was called Cyzicenus; because he hadbeen brought up in that city. He was theson of Antiochus, called Soter, who died inParthia. He was the brother of Demetrius,the father of Grypus. For it had so hap­ * In this decree of the Roman senate, it seems, thatthese ambassadors were sent from the people of theJews, as well as from their prince or high-priest, JohnHyrcanus. "f This clause, that Demetrius suffered much from hisenemies before his death, is noted here by Dr. Hudson to<b"sagree with the accounts of Trogus Pompeius in Justin; and with Porphyry. Whether Josephus or those authorswere here imposed upon cannot now be determined. Butif this were a part of the Chronicles of John Hyrcanus, amost authentic and contemporary record, as it seems tobe, there is no doubt but Josephus's account ought to bepreferred.J An. 122.