OCR Output f,2 JOITA. IONIUM MAKE. Per. 92), are obviously mere etymological fancies.No trace of the name is found in the Homeric p«s-ins:and it ocean for the first time in Aeschylus, though,from the poetic diction of that writer, it is not clearin what precise svnse he employs the term woVtcojcu>x°i 'liyiot. (Ae-<h. /. c.) Herodotus evidentlyemploys the name 'lovios k6\tos, the Ionian (ptlf,jus synonymous with the Adriatic; and Thucydideslikewise uses the term in the same sense, as is evi­dent from his expression, that " Epidamnus is h cityon the right hand as you sail into the Ionian gulf"(i. 24). He also repeatedly uses the term o '\6viot(with KcfXiroi understood) in speaking of the passagefrom Curcyra to the lapygian promontory (vi. 30,34,vii. 33); but in all these cases ho refers only to thenarrow sea, which mitrht be considered as jjart of thename gulf or inlet with the entrance of the Adriatic.Sylax also, and even Scymnus Chins, employ thename of the Ionian pulf in the same sense, as sy­nonymous with the Adriatic, or at least with thesouthern part of it (Scyl. §§ 14, 27; Scymn. Ch.133, 361) [AimiATici'M Makk]; while the nameof the Ionian sen, in the more extended sense givento it by later geographers, ns indicated at the com­mencement of this article, is not found in any earlyGreek writer. Pulybius is the first extant authorwho uses the term in this sense, and gives the nameof TdVios wopor to the sea which extended from theentrance of the Adriatic along the coast of Italy asfar as the promontory of Corinthus, which he con­siders as its southern limit (I'ol. ii. 14, v. 110.)Even here the peculiar expression of the Ionianttrrtit sufrk-iently shows that this was a mere ex­tension of the name from the narrow sea or strait atthe entrance of the Adriatic to the more open sea tothe S. nf it. Hence we have no proof that the namewas ever one in common use among the (ireeks untilit came to be established by the geographers; andeven Ktrabo, who on these points often follows earlierauthors, gives the name only of the Ionian gulf tothe i art of the sea near the entrance of the Adriatic,while he extends the appellation of the Sicilian sea(SotcAiirof WAtryos) from the eastern shores ofSicily to those of the Peloponnese. He, u well asI'olybios and Scymnus Chios, fixes the Acmce-raunian promontory as the limit between the Ionianand the Adriatic seas. (Strab. ii. p. 123, vii. pp.31G, 317.) l'liny uses the name of Ionium Marevery widely, or rather very vaguely; including underthat appellation the Mare Siculum and Creticum ofthe Greeks, as well as apparently the lower part ofthe Adriatic (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14. 26. a. 29, 30, iv. 11.s. 18), and this appears to have been the usagecommon in his day, and which is followed by theLatin poets. (Virg. Atn. iii. 211, 671; Ovid, Fait.iv. 565, &e.) Mela distinguishes the Ionian peafrom the Sicilian, and applies the former name, in thesense now generally adopted by geographers, as thatportion of the broad sea between the shores of Greeceand those of Sicily, which lay nearest to the former.(Mel. ii. 4. § 1.) But all these names, given merelyto portions of tho Mediterranean which had nonatural limits, were evidently used very vaguely andindefinitely; and the great extension given at a laterperiod to the name of the Adriatic swallowed opaltogether those of the Ionian and Sicilian seas[AimiATicm Mark], or led to the employment ofthe former name in • vague and geneial sense,wholly different from that in which it was originallyapplied. Thus Servius, commenting on the expres­sion of Virgil, " Iusulae loniu in niegno," where the trite Ionium Mare is meant by the poet, says •—"Sciendum, Ionium siuum esse imniciisum, ;ib 1< nuuscjue ad Siciliam, et hujus partes esse Adriaticuin,Achaicum et Epiroticuin." (Serv. ad A en. iii. 211.)On the other hand, the name of the Ionian gulf (oTcWi koAi-oj) was still given in late times (at leattby geographers), in a very limited sense, to thaiportion of the Adriatic immediately within the straitat its entrance. (Eustath. ad Ilionyt. Per. 92,389.) Ptolemy even applies the name of the Ioniansea ('\iiviov wi\«yos, iii. 1. §§ 14, 15) in the samerestricted manner. Krom the name of the Ionian sea has been deri\e>lthat of the Ionian islauds, now given to the groupof seven principal islands (besides several smallerones) which constitute an independent republic underthe protectorate of Great Britain; but there is noancient authority for this appellation. [E. H II.] JUl'PA (Ioinrn.LXX.; Stmb.xvi.p. 759; I'll*,v. 16. § 2. The form' Icfirn, Steph. B.; Dicnys. v.910; Joseph. ;lnl% ix. 10. § 2; Solin. 34, bettersuits the Phoenician original, which signifies "aneminence;" comp. Mover's Phimizier, yL ii. p. 177;Hitzig, /He PhiluUier, pp. 131 — 134: Etk. "U-wi'ttjt, 'Iotm'tijj, 'Ioi-a-fa, 'Ithrfia, 'Ioircvr, 'lovir.The Hebrew name Jatho is still preserved in theArabic Yafa or Jaffa). A seaport town and havenon the coast of Palestine, situated on an eminence.The ancients asserted that it had existed before theDeluge (Pomp. Mela. i. 11. § 3; Plin. v. 14), andaccording to legend it was on this shore that An­dromeda was rescued by I'ersens (Strab. /. c.; Plin.I. c.; comp. Hieron. in Jim. i.) from the monster,whose skeleton was exhibited at Home by SI. Ae-milius Scaurus during his famous curule aedile-liip(Plin. ix. 4). When the Israelites invaded Canaanit is mentioned as lying on the border of the tribe ofDan {Josh. xix. 40). and whs the only port pos­sessed by the Jewish people, till Herod made theharbour at Caesarea. The timber from Lebanonintended fur both the first and second temples waslanded here (1 Kings, v. 9; 2 Citron, ii. 16; fos,iii. 7); and Jonah went to Joppa to find a shipgoing to Tarshish (Jon. i. 3). Judas Maccabaruaiset the shipping oti tire, because of the inhabitantshaving drowned 200 Jews (2 Mace. xii. 3—7).The town was afterwards taken by Jonathan(1 Mare. x. 74—76), but was not long retained,as it was again captured by Simon (xii. 34), andwas strongly fortified by him (xiv. 5, xt. 28). Itwas annexed by Pimipcius to the Iloman provinceof Syria, along with other towns which the Jewshad held by grants from the predecessors of An-liochns (Joseph. Antiq. xiv. 4. § 4, cunip. xiiL S»§ 2), and was afterwards given U llcnxl by Julia*Caesar (xv. 7. J 3), and remained part of llie do­minions of Archelaus (xvii II. §4). In the New Testament Joppa is mentioned in con­nection with the Apostle Peter (Act*, ix. 36—13.X. 5, 18. xi. 5). During the Jewish war, thisplace, which had become a receptacle fur pint'-s(Strab. xvi. p. 759), was taken by Ostitis,an,I Miniof the inhabitants were put to the sword. (Jos*i.xB.J. ii. 18. § 10.) Vespasian afterwards utterlydemolished the ruins of Joppa, to which great num­bers of persona had fled, and taken to piracy fursubsistence. (B. J. iii. 9. §§ 2—5.) In the timeof Corutantine Joppa was the seat of a buhnp. aswell as when taken by the Arabians under tiiiiar,A. ii. 636; the name of a bishop oc<nrs in tliecouncil held at Jerusalem A. L>. 536. At the prrwd