OCR Output 330 ANTIQUIT1KS OF THE JEWS. Book XV. CHAP. IV. How Cleopatra, 'when she had gotten Jrom Antony some partsof Judea and Arabia, came into Judea ,' and how Herod gaveher many presents, and conducted her on her isoay lack toEgypt. § 1. .N ow at this time the affairs of Syria were in confusionby Cleopatra's constant persuasions to Antony to make an at­tempt upon every body's dominions; for she persuaded himto take those dominions away from their several princes,and bestow them upon her; and she had a mighty influenceupon him, by reason of his being enslaved to her by his af­fections. She was also by nature very covetous, and stuck atno wickedness. She had already poisoned her brother, becauseshe knew that he was to be king of Egypt, and this when he wasbut fifteen years old: and she got her sister Arsinoe to be slain,by the means of Antony, when she was a supplicant at Diana'stemple at Ephesus; for if there were but any hopes of gettingmoney, she would violate both temples and sepulchres. Norwas there any holy place, that was esteemed the most inviol­able, from which she would not fetch the ornaments it had in it;nor any place so profane, but was to suffer the most flagitioustreatment possible from her, if it could but contribute somewhatto the covetous humour of this wicked creature: yet did not allthis suffice so extravagant a woman, who was a slave to herlusts, but she still imagined that she wanted every thing shecould think of, and did her utmost to gain it; for which rea­son she hurried Antony on perpetually to deprive others oftheir dominions, and give them to her. And as she wentover Syria with him, she contrived to get it into her possession,so he slew Lysanius, the son of Ptolemy, accusing him of hisbringing the Parthians upon those countries. She also petition­ed Antony to give her Judea and Arabia, and in order thereto,desired him to take these countries away from their present go­vernors. As for Antony, he was so entirely overcome by thiswoman, that one would not think her conversation only coulddo it, but that he was some way or other bewitched to do what­soever she would have him; yet did the grossest parts of her in­justice make him so ashamed, that he would not always heark­en to her, to do those flagrant enormities she would have per­suaded him to. That therefore he might not totally deny her, nor,by doing every thing which she enjoined him, appear openly tobe an ill man, he took some parts of each of those countriesaway from their former governors, and gave them to her. Thus