OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL and the arms of the Greeks were idly employed in the reduction of Modena andParma, which were torn from them after the retreat of their transalpine allies.The victorious Autharis asserted his claim to the dominion of Italy. At the footof the Rhaetian Alps, he subdued the resistance, and rifled the hidden treasures ofa sequestered island in the lake of Comum. At the extreme point of Calabria, hetouched with his spear a column on the sea-shore of Rhegium,(l) proclaiming thatancient land-mark to stand the immoveable boundary of his kingdom. (2) During a period of two hundred years, Italy was unequally divided between thekingdom of the Lombards, and the exarchate of Ravenna. The offices and pro­fessions, which the jealousy of Constantine had separated, were united by the in­dulgence of Justinian; and eighteen successive exarchs were invested, in the de­cline of the empire, with the full remains of civil, of military, and even of ecclesi­astical power. Their immediate jurisdiction, which was afterward consecratedas the patrimony of St. Peter, extended over the modern Romagna, the marshesor valleys of Ferrara and Commachio,(3) five maritime cities from Rimini to An-cona, and a second, inland Pentapolis, between the Adriatic coast and the hills ofthe Apennine. Three subordinate provinces, of Rome, of Venice, and of Naples,which were divided by hostile lands from the palace of Ravenna, acknowledgedboth in peace and war, the supremacy of the exarch. The duchy of Rome ap­pears to have included the Tuscan, Sabine, and Latin conquests, of the first fourhundred years of the city, and the limits may be distinctly traced along the coast,from Civita Vecchia, to Tevracina, and with the course of the Tiber from Ameriaand Narni to the port of Ostia. The numerous islands from Grado to Chiozza,composed the infant dominion of Venice; but the more accessible towns on the con­tinent were overthrown by the Lombards, who beheld with impotent fury, a newcapital rising from the waves. The power of the dukes of Naples was circum­scribed by the bay and the adjacent isles, by the hostile territory of Capua, and bythe Roman colony of Amalphi,(4) whose industrious citizens, by the invention ofthe mariner's compass, have unveiled the face of the globe. The three islands ofSardinia, Corsica, and Sicily, still adhered to the empire; and the acquisition of thefarther Calabria removed the land-mark of Autharis from the shore of Rhegiumto the isthmus of Consentia. In Sardinia, the savage mountaineers preserved theliberty and religion of their ancestors; but the husbandmen of Sicily were chainedto their rich and cultivated soil. Rome was oppressed by the iron sceptre of theexarchs, and a Greek, perhaps a eunuch, insulted with impunity the ruins of the ca­pital. But Naples soon acquired the privilege of electing her own dukes;(5) the inde­pendence of Amalphi was the fruit of commerce; and the voluntary attachment ofVenice was finally ennobled by an equal alliance with the eastern empire. On themap of Italy, the measure of the exarchate occupies a very inadequate space, but itincluded an ample proportion of wealth, industry, and population. The most faith­ful and valuable subjects escaped from the barbarian yoke; and the banners of Pa-via and Verona, of Milan and Padua, were displayed in their respective quartersby the new inhabitants of Ravenna. The remainder of Italy was possessed by theLombards; and from Pavia, the royal seat, their kingdom was extended to theeast, the north, and the west, as far as the confines of the Avars, the Bavarians,and the Franks of Austrasia and Burgundv. In the language of modern geogra­phy, it is now represented by the Terra Firma of the Venetian republic, Tyrol,the Milanese, Piedmont, the coast of Genoa, Mantua, Parma, and Modena, thegrand duchy of Tuscany, and a large portion of the ecclesiastical state from Peru­gia to the Adriatic. The dukes, and at length the princes, of Beneventum sur­vived the monarchy, and propagated the name of the Lombards. From Capua toTarentum, they reigned near five hundred years over the greatest part of the pre­sent kingdom, of Naples. (6) CO The Columns Rhegina, in the narrowest part of the Paro of Messina, one hundred stadia from Rhe­nium itself, is frequently mentioned in ancient Geography, Cluver. Ital. Antiq. torn. ii. p. 1295. Lucas Hol-stein. Annotat. ad Cluver. p. 301. Wesseling, Itinerar. p. 100. (2) The Greek historians afford some faint hints of the wars of Italy (Menander, in Encerpt. Legat. p. 124,126 Theophylact, lib. iii. c. 4.) The Latins are more satisfactory; and especially Paul Warnefrid, (lib. iii. 13.34^) who had read the more ancient histories of Secundus and Gregory of Tours. Baronius produces someletters of the popes, &c. and the times are measured by the accurate scale of Pagi and Muratori. (3) The papal advocates.Zacagni and Fontanini, might justly claim the valley or morass of Comraachio asa part of the exarchate. But the ambition of including Modena, Reggio, Parma, and Placentia, has darkeneda geographical question somewhat doubtful and obscure. Even Muratori, as the servant of the house of Este,is not free from partiality and prejudice. (4) See Brenchmann, Dissert. I ma de Republica Amalphitana, p. 1—42. ad calcero Hist. Pandect. Florent.(3) Gregor. Magn. lib. iii. epist.23. 25—27. <6) I have described the state of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of Beretti. Giaanone (Istoria Ci-