OCR Output Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 309 doing: but the letting the chest down proved to be a matter ofgreat danger, because of the vast depth they were to be let down,although they had their provisions in the chests themselves: butwhen the chests were let down, and not one of those in themouths of the caves durst come rear them, but lay still out otfear, some of the armed men girt on their armour, and byboth their hands took h. Id of the chain, by which the chests werelet down, and went in'.o the moutl:s of the caves, because theyfretted that such c!ehiy w- s made by the robbers not daring tocome out of the caves; and when they were at any of thosemouths, they first killed many of those that were in the mouthswith their darts, and afterwards pulled those to them that resistedthem with their hooks, and tumbled them down the precipices,and afterwards went into the caves, and killed many more, andthen went into their chests again, and lay still there; but uponthis, terror seized the rest, when they heard the lamentationsthat were made, and they despaired of escaping: however,when the night came on, that put an end to the whole work; andas the king proclaimed pardon by a herald to such as deliveredthemselves up to him, many accepted of the offer. The samemethod of assault was made use of the next day; and they wentfarther, and got out in baskets to fight them, and sought themat their doors, and sent fire among them, and set their caves onfire, for there was a great deal of combustible matter within them.Now there was one old man who was caught within one of thesecaves, with seven children and a wife; these prayed him togive them leave to go out, and yield themselves up to the ene­my, but he stood at the cave's mouth, and always slew thatchild of his who went out, till he had destroyed them every one,and after that he slew his wife, and cast their dead bodies downthe precipice, and himself after them, and so underwent deathrather than slavery: but before he did this, he greatly reproach­ed Herod with the meanness of his family, although he wasthen king. Herod also saw what he was doing, and stretched outhis hand, and offered him all manner of security for his life: Bywhich means all these caves were at length subdued entirely. 6. And when the king had set Ptolemy over these parts ofthe country as his general, he went to Samaria, with six hun­dred horsemen, and three thousand armed footmen, as intend­ing to fight Antigonus. But still this command of the army did'not succeed well with Ptolemy, but those that had been trouble­some to Galilee before attacked him, and slew him; and whenthey had done this, they fled among the lakes and places al­most inaccessible, laying waste and plundering whatsoever theycould come at in those places. But Herod soon returned, andpunished them for what they had done; for some of these re­