OCR Output Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 2*5 nothing of that in hopes whereof he had received him into thecity, but had a mind to have it believed that it was rather deli­vered up out of fear than by the kindness of Melesius, and be­cause he had not rewarded him as he ought to have done, he be­came suspected by him, and so he was obliged to leave Damascusagain; for Melesius caught him marching out into the Hippo­drome and shut him up in it, and kept Damascus for Antiochus[Eucerus], who hearing how Philip's affairs stood, came back outof Arabia. He also came immediately, and made an expeditionagainst Judea,with eight thousand armed footmen, and eight hun­dred horsemen. So Alexander, out of fear of his coming, duga deep ditch, beginning at Chabarzaba, which is now called An-tipatris, to the sea of Joppa, on which part only his army couldbe brought against him. He also raised a wall, and erected wood­en towers, and intermediate redoubts, for one hundred and fiftyfurlongs in length, and there expected the coming of Antiochus,but he soon burnt them all, and made his army pass by that wayinto Arabia. The Arabian king [Aretas] at first retreated, butafterward appeared on the sudden with ten thousand horsemen.Antiochus gave them the meeting, and fought desperately; andindeed when he had gotten the victory, and was bringing someauxiliaries to that part of his army that was in distress, he wasslain. When Antiochus was fallen, his army fled to the villageCana, where the greatest part of them perished by famine. 2. After him * Aretas reigned over Celesyria, being called tothe government by those that held Damascus, by reason of thehatred they bare to Ptolemy Menneus. He also made thence anexpedition against Judea, and beat Alexander in battle, near aplace called Adida, yet did he upon certain conditions agreed onbetween them, retire out of Judea. '3. But Alexander marched again to the city Dios, and tookit; and then made an expedition against Essa, where was the bestpart of Zeno's treasures, and there he encompassed the place withthree walls; and when he had taken the city by fighting, hemarched to Golan and Seleucia; and when he had taken thesecities, he, besides them, took that valley which is calle'd the val­ley of Antiochus, as also the fortress of Gamala. He also ac­cused Demetrius, who was governor of those places, of manycrimes, and turned him out: and after he had spent three yearsin this war, he returned to his own country, when the Jews joy­fully received him upon this his good success. 4. Now at this time the Jews were in possession of the follow­ * This Aretas was the first king of the Arabians who took Damascus, and reignedthere: Which name became afterwards common to such Arabian kings, both at Pe-t ra and at Damascus, as we learn from Josephus in many places, and from St. Paul,2 Cor. xi. 32. See the note on Antiq. B XVI. ch. ix. § 4.