OCR Output THE ANTIQUITIES OF sEnra »B1?B^ BOOK I. Containing an interval of 3833 Years from the Creation to the Death of Isaac. CHAP. I. * OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE WORLD AND THEDISPOSITION OF THE ELEMENTS. IN the beginning God created the heavenand the earth.f But when the earth didnot come into sight, but was covered withthick darkness, and a wind moved upon itssurface, God commanded that there shouldbe light, and when that was made, he consi­dered the whole mass, and separated the lightand the darkness; and the name he gave toone was night, and the other he called day;and he named the beginning of light, andthe time of rest, the evening and the morning.And this was indeed the first day. But Mosessaid it was one day,J the cause of which I amable to give even now; but because I havepromised to give such reasons for all thingsin a treatise by itself, I shall put off its expo­sition till that time. After this, on the secondday, he placed the heaven over the wholeworld, and separated it from the other parts:and he determined it should stand by itself.He also placed a crystalline firmament round * Note, that this and the other titles of chapters arewanting in the best MSS. & t See Gen. i. 1. et sequel. \ One is put for the first, not only here in the Hebrewand Numb. xxix. 1. Dan. ix. 1. but elsewhere in Josephus, voL. I. No. I. it; and put it together in a manner agreeableto the earth: and fitted it for giving moistureand rain, and for affording the advantage ofdews. On the third day he appointed the dryland to appear, with the sea round about it;and on the same day he made the plants andthe seeds to spring out of the earth. On thefourth day he adorned the heaven with thesun, the moon, and the stars, and appointedthem their motions and courses, that the vicis­situdes of the seasons might be clearly signi­fied. And on the fifth day he produced theliving creatures, both those that swim, andthose that fly: the former in the sea, the lat­ter. in the air. He also sorted them as to so­ciety, and that their kinds might increase andmultiply. On the sixth day he created thefour-rooted beasts, and made them male andfemale. On the same day he also formed man.Accordingly Moses says, that in six days theworld, and all that is therein, was made; andthat the seventh day was a rest, and a releasefrom the labour of such operations, whenceit is that we celebrate a rest from our labourson that day, and call it the Sabbath, whichword denotes rest in the Hebrew tongue. VIII. 5. XVIII. 4. and in the Greek, Matt, xxvin. 1. Johnxx. 19. 1. 1 Cor. xvi.2. as Ainsworth observes on thistext. It is also in Philo, and among the Egyptians andChaldeans, and even in Diodorus Siculus. D