OCR Output 3o4 NOTES ON THE those suhtrrranran rivers which are so much celebrated by an­cient theologists. So thn nothijg more >'» meant bv in s fable,than that this divine powtr Scmele, while she illumirsi-.s the po-fundities of the earth with as great a portion of divine !■<.>.„ ttthey are capable or receiving, of a light winch is enshrined as itwere in she -r./~ st Gre,is at the fame iimc elevated by Baccl.mto an energy perttsi'y immaterial, impalSvc and pure, lor di-yinc illumination, while it proceeds into the da: k and rclour.diugreceptacle of matter, is neither c.ciircu by its darkness, cefi.edby its impurity, nor debilitated by itt. privation of reality. Page 253. Homer.'] These verses, the transhror os which isMr. Pope, are to be found in the Odyssey, lib. six. Ter. 1-8. Page 257. The oracle.'] This oracle is ghen at length byHerodotus, lib. i. p. 1 7. Page 260. Who has dared to corrupt the oracle of the god.]There camiot be the leall Joi;bt but that the greater part of menof the present day believe the ancient oracles to have been nothingmore than the tricks of designing priests; and the remainingpart, which is certainly a very tmall one, wiil, as it appears to me,ascribe them to the influence of evil spirits. However, as it is awell known fact that moil of the oracles ceased when the Christianreligion made its appearance, it is impossible that they should havebeen nothing more than fraudulent tricks; for, if this had beenthe cafe, there was a much gicatei necessity than ever for the ex­ercise of such tricks, when a new religion started up, diameti icallyopposite to the old one; nor can any reason be affigned why onthis hypothesis the oracles should cease. On the other hand, tosay that they were produced by the influence of evil spirits, isjust as absurd as to assert that evil is naturally the source of good;for the tendency os the oracles was evidently direited to the goodboth of individuals and cities, which in numberless instances theywere the means of procuring. It may therefore be safely con­cluded that they were produced by divine influence; and thatthey ceased when the Christian religion appeared, because the part*