OCR Output .56 VESPASIAN. [B. III. CHAPTER IX. HOW JOPPA WAS TAKEN, AND TIBERIAS DELIVERED UP. § 1. Now Vespasian returned to Ptolemais on the fourthday of the month Panemus [Tamuz,] and from thence hecame to Caesarea, which lay by the sea-side. This was avery great city of Judea, and for the greatest part inhabitedby Greeks; the citizens here received both the Roman armyand its general with all sorts of acclamations and rejoicings,and this partly out of the good-will they bore to the Romans,but principally out of the hatred they bore to those thatwere conquered by them ; on which account they came clamor­ing against Josephus in crowds, and desired he might be putto death. But Vespasian passed over this petition concern­ing him, as offered by the injudicious multitude, with a baresilence. Two of the legions also he placed at Caesarea, thatthey might there take their winter-quarters, as perceiving thecity very fit for such a purpose; but he placed the tenth andthe fifth at Scythopolis, that he might not distress Caesareawith the entire army. This place was warm, even in winter,as it was suffocating hot in the summer-time, by reason of itssituation in a plain, and near to the sea [of Galilee.] 2. In the mean time, there were gathered together as wellsuch as had seditiously got out from among their enemies, asthose that had escaped out of the demolished cities, whichwere in all a great number, and repaired Joppa, which hadbeen left desolate by Cestius, that it might serve them for aplace of refuge; and because the adjoining region had beenlaid waste in the war, and was not capable of supporting them,they determined to go off to sea. They also built themselvesa great many piratical ships, and turned pirates upon the seasnear to Syria, and Phoenicia, and Egypt, and made those seasunnavigable to all men. Now as soon as Vespasian knew oftheir conspiracy, he sent both footmen and horsemen to Joppa,who entered the city, which was unguarded, in the night-time:however, those that were in it perceived that they should bo