OCR Output G6q PRAENETUS. tending to prove the continued importance <»f prae­neste throughout the period of the Roman Empire.(Ntbby, vol. ii. pp. 513—515; Foggini, I.e. pp. v.—viii.) Other inscriptions mention the existence of atheatre and an amphitheatre, a portico and curia,and a spoliarium; hut no remains of any of theseedifices can he traced. (Gruler, Inter, p. 132;Orelli, Inter. 2532; Bonnann, note 43-1.) The celt-bratoil grammarian Verrius Placcus, al­ready mentioned, was probably a native of Prae-r.cste, as was also the well-known author Aelianus,who, thongh he wrote in Greek, was a Uoman citi­zen by birth. (Suid. t. v. Ai\tuv6s). The familyof the Anicii also, so illustrious under the Empire,seems to have derived its origin from Praeneste, asa Q. Anicius is mentioned by 1'liny as a magistrateof that city as early as li. C. 304. (Plin. xxxiii. 1.s. G.) It is probable aisu tliat in Livy (xxiii. 19)we should read M. Anicius fur Manicius. It is re­markable that the Praenestines appear to have hadcertain dialectic peculiarities which distinguishedthem from the other Latins; these are mure thanonce alluded to by Plant us, as well as by latergrammarians. (Plaut. Trmvm. iii. 1. 8, True. iii.2. 23; Quint'il. Inst i. 5. § 5G ; Fest, s. r. Nepkrtn*tlL<, Id. s. v, Timyrr.) The territory of Praeneste was noted for the ex­cellence of its nuts, which are noticed by Cato.(Ii. It. 8, 143; Plio. xvii. 13. s. 21; Naevius, ap.Macrob. Sat iii. 18). Hence the Praenestinesthemselves seem to have been nicknamed Nuculae;though another explanation of the term is given byFestUS, who derives it from the walnuts (nuces)with which the Praenestine garrison of Casilinuinis said to have been fed. (Cic. t/e Or. ii. 62; Fest.t. p. Nucviae.') Pliny also mentions the roses of Prae­neste as among the most celebrated in Italy; and itswine is noticed by Atnenaeua, though it was ap­parently not one of the choicest kinds. (Plin. xxi.4. s. 10; Atben. i. p. 26, f.) It is evident from the narrative of Livy (vi.2!t) that Praeneste in the days of its independence,like Tibur, had a considerable territory, with atleast eight smaller towns as its dependencies;but the names of none of these are preserved to us,and we are wholly unable to fix the limits of its ter­ritory. The name of Via Praenestina was given to theroad which, proceeding from Koine through CJabiidirect to Praeneste, from thence rejoined the ViaI.atina at the station near Anagnia. It will beconsidered in detail in the article Via PitAENES-tinv. [E. H.B.J PRAE'NETUS (Upa'tvtroi), a town on the castof liilhynia, on the north side of Mount Argautho-nius, and at the southern entrance of the SinusAstacenus. It was situated 28 Unman miles to thenorth-west of Nicaea; and Stoplianus 11., who callsit TlpovtKTost states that it was founded by thePhoenicians. If this be true, it would be a veryancient place, which can scarcely be conceived, as itis mentioned only by very late Writers. (Pallad. Vit.Chrtjs. p. 75; Socrat. vi. 16; Hierocl, p. 691, whereit is called Priiirtus; Tab. Ptttlimj., where it iswritten Pronetios ) According to Cedrenus (p. 457),it was destroyed by an earthquake. Its site seems toanswer to that of Ikbrtnik. [L. S.J PBAESI'DIUM, the name of several fortifiedplaces established by the Romans. 1. In Lusitmiia, on the Douro. (It'm. Ant. p.428.) 2. In Baelica, onAnas to Emeriti (ItS. Lucar tie tivaditt 3. In Gallaecia, n422.) 4. In Britannia ICornavii (Not Imj,(Camden, p. 602.) PRAESl'DIUM, jSyrtis, between Taguand Ad Turrem. iP>arth"s (Wamdermmresearches upon the;Sutis, is to place tthere are remains of PKAKSIMUM. PRAESl'DIUM 1 SIDIUM.J PRAESIL [PinPRAESTI (Curt.1 Piinjtiby who wereGreat. Their kintrbeen named Oxycanbeen the same rulerticanus (xv. p. 701).Arrian. (Anab. vi.Praesti a purely Indfrom the resemblancethe western portionPrasii.. [Pkasiaca." PRAESUS, or PRof Strabo Tlpaaos, buthtscr. vol. ii. p. I lOin^a(di€oy, Steph. Blunging to the Kteoerof the Dictaean Zeusritury of Praesus. (8is a difficulty in thethe position of this ithat Praesus bordereand was distant 70from Gortyn; and he ibetween the promonlnesus, at the distanciIt is evident that tla town, whose territoLcl>en, must have l»eeof the island; whilepromontories of Sanuhave been at the en-town of the Kteoerethe Dictaean Zeus, anin history : the fomu(Crete, vol. i. p. 289.Priaiwua, a town mentwhich he accordinglyl>etwcen Ilienua andby Kiepert. Hut l>o405) that Xlpdvuos, tform of the name, frui(a form in Steph. B. $.were derived, just ubecame iraitra, andKramer (aUStrab. 1.1Upon the whole we ntwas intended by Stramentioned passages. The territory ofisland to either m*.said to have l»een thexception of Policlma