OCR Output THURII. THURII. 1193 al«o to I f nn hostile, or at least unfriendly,nn» with Dionysius of Syracuse, and was in con-•jmr.ce chosen as a place of retirement or exile by> brother Lrptines and his friend Philistns (I)iod.r. "X The rise of the Brottian people about B. a16 probably became the cause of the complete declineTtarii, but the statement of Diodorua that the cityu naqucrtd by that people (xvi. 15) must be re-with conaiderable donbt It is certain at leastn il reappears in history at a later period as an in-jrodrnl Greek city, though much fallen from itsnner greatness. No mention of it is found during• wus of Alexander of Epirus in this part of Italy;1 si ■ later period it was so hard pressed by theIranians that it had recourse to the alliance ofroe; and a Roman army was sent to its reliefJt C. Fabriciu*. That general defeated theIranians, who had actually laid siege to the city, ■ pitched battle, and by several other successest gnat extent broke their power, and thus re-ted the Thurians from all immediate danger fromi:quarter. (Lir. Epit. xi.; Plin. xxxiv. 6. s. 15;i Max. i. 8. § 6.) But shortly after they were■fc-led on the other side by the Tarentines, whoi said to have taken and plundered their cityIpiui, Sam*. 7. § 1); and this aggression was'cf the immediate causes of the war declaredlie Romans against Tarentum in B. c. 282.Thorn now sank completely into the condition of ally of Rome, and wxs protected by aNo mention is found of its nurneraig tat wan with Pyrrhus or the First Panicir. tat it plays a considerable part in that withuimbaL It was apparently one of the cities whichidled to the Carthaginians immediately after thei» of Cannae, though, in another passage, I.ivytn to place its defection somewhat later. (Liv.i. CI, xxr. I.) But in B.C.213,the Thuriansarottl to their alliance w ith Rome, and received aman cvriann into their city. (Id. xxt. 1.) They next year, however, after the fall of Taren-a, they changed sides again, and betrayed theman troops into the hands of the Carthaginiansrral Hai.no. (Id. xxv. 15; Appian, Harm. 34.)few years later (b. c. 210), Hannibal, findingunable to protect his allies in Campania, re­nd the inhabitant* of Atella who had survivedfall of their city to Thurii (Appian, Harm. 49);it was not long before he was compelled tor.rlon the latter city also to its fate; and whenhimself in H. c. 204 withdrew his forces intoitlium, he removed to Crotona 3500 of the prin-citizens of Thurii, while he gave up the city it-to the plunder of his troops. (Appian, L c 57.) > evident that Thurii was now sunk to the lowestit rfdecay; but the great fertility of its territory-rtrd it desirable to preserve it from utter deso-ii: hence in n. c. 194, it was one of the placeswed for tbe establishment of a Roman colonyh Latin rights. (Lir. xxxiv. 53; Strab. rt p.L) The number of colonist* was small in pro-tun lo the extent of land to be divided amongn, bus they amounted to 3000 foot and 300rhta. (Lit. xxxv. 9.) Livy says merely that o4ony waa sent "in Thurinum agrom," andi not mention anything of a change of name;Strabo telb us that they gave to the new colonyname of Copiak, and this statement is confirmed > by Stephanos of Byzantium, and by the evi- ■ of eoins, on which, however, the name is writtenfx*. (Strab. L c; Steph. Byz. «. r. rJoopioi; Eckhel, vol. i. p. 164.) But this new name did notcontinue long in use, and Thurii still continued tobe known by its ancient appellation. It is men.tioned as a municipal town on several occasion*during the latter age* of the Republic. In b. c. 72it was taken by Spartacos, and subjected to heavycontributions, but not otherwise injured. (Appian,B. C. i. 117.) At the outbreak of the Civil Warsit was deemed by Caesar of sufficient importance tobe secured with a garrison of Gaulish and Spanishhorse; and it was there that M. Coeliu* was put todeath, after a vain attempt to excite an insurrectionin this part of Italy. (Can. B. C. Hi. SI, S3.) InB. c. 40 also it was attacked by Sextos Pompcius,who laid waste it* territory, but waa repulsedfrom the walls of the city. (Appian, B. C. r.56, 58.) It is certain therefore that Thurii was at thistime still a place of some importance, and it ismentioned as a still existing town by Pliny andPtolemy, as well as Strabo. (Strab. vi.'p. 263;Plin. iii. ll.s. 15; ltol. iii. 1. § 12.) It was pro­bably, indeed, the only place of any considerationremaining on the coast of the Tarentine gulf, be­tween Crotona and Tarentum; both Metapontumand Heraclea having already fallen into almost com­plete decay. Its name is still found in the Itineraries(ftm. Ant. p. 114, where it is written u Turios;"Tab. PeuL); and it is noticed by Procopins as stillexisting in the 6th century. (Procop. B. G. i. 15.)The period of its final decay is uncertain; but itseems to have been abandoned during the middleage*, when tbe inhabitanta took refuge at a placecalled Terranora, about 12 miles inland, on a hillon the left bank of the Crathis. The exact site of Thurii has not yet been identi­fied, but the neighbourhood has never been examinedwith proper care. It is clear, from the statement*both of biodorns and Strabo, that it occupied a sitenear to, but distinct from, that of Sybaria (l)iod.xii. 10; Strab. /. c): hence the position suggestedby some local topographers at the foot of the hill ofTerranora, is probably too far inland. It is morelikely that the true site is to be sought to the N.of the Cotcile (the ancient Sybaria). a few miles fromthe sea, where, according to Zannoni s map, ruins stillexist, attributed by that geographer to Sybaria, butwhich are probably in reality those of Thurii. Swin­burne, however, mentions Roman ruins as existingin the peninsula formed by the rivers Crathis andSybaris near their junction, which may perhaps bethose of Thurii. (Swinburne, Travels, roL i. pp.291, 292 ; Romanelli, vol. i. p. 236.) The wholesubject is very obscure, and a careful examinationof the localities is still much needed. The coins of Thurii are of great beauty; theirnumber and variety indeed gives us a higher ideaof the opulence and prosperity of the city than cow or Til D KB.