OCR Output 898 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. But the most suspicious malignity cannot ascribe to,XX1. Theodosius, in his obscure solitude of Caucha, thearts, the desires, or even the hopes, of an ambitiousstatesman; and the name of the Exile would longsince have been forgotten, if his genuine and distin­guished virtues had not left a deep impression in theImperial court. During the season of prosperity,he had been neglected; but, in the public distress,his superior merit was universally felt and acknow­ledged. What confidence must have been reposed inhis integrity, since Gratian could trust, that a piousson would forgive, for the sake of the republic, themurder of his father! What expectations must havebeen formed of his abilities, to encourage the hope,that a single man could save, and restore, the em­pire of the East! Theodosius was invested with thepurple in the thirty-third year of his age. The vul­gar gazed with admiration on the manly beauty ofhis face, and the graceful majesty of his person, whichthey were pleased to compare with the pictures andmedals of the emperor Trajan; whilst intelligent ob­servers discovered, in the 'qualities of his heart andunderstanding, a more important resemblance to the.best and greatest of the Roman princes.Hispm- it is not without the most sincere regret that I dent and ;P successful must now take leave of an accurate and faithful guide,SeOfothic who has composed the history of his own times, with-waA d out indulging the prejudices and passions which379-382. usually affect the mind of a contemporary. Am-mianus Marcellinus, who terminates his useful workwith the defeat and death of Valens, recommendsthe more glorious subject of the ensuing reign to theyouthful vigour and eloquence of the rising genera­tion. The rising generation was not disposed toaccept his advice, or to imitate his example *; and, • Ammianus was the last subject of Rorne who cornposed a profane history inthe Latin language. The East, in the next century, produced some rhetoricalhistorians, Zosimus, Olympiodorus, Malchus, Candidus, &c. See Vossius deHistoricis Graecis, 1. ii. c. 18; de HistoricU Latinis, 1. ii. c 10, &c.