OCR Output 140 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. into immediate submission. The sacrilegious insultXV1" of a random dart, which glanced against the royaltiara, convinced him of his error; and the indignantmonarch listened with impatience to the advice of hisministers, who conjured him not to sacrifice the suc­cess of his ambition to the gratification of his resent­ment. The following day Grumbates advanced to­wards the gates with a select body of troops, andrequired the instant surrender of the city, as the onlyatonement which could be accepted for such an act ofrashness and insolence. His proposals were answeredby a general discharge, and his only son, a beautifuland valiant youth, was pierced through the heart bya javelin, shot from one of the balistae. The funeralof the prince of the Chionites was celebrated accord­ing to the rites of his country; and the grief of hisaged father was alleviated by the solemn promise ofSapor, that the guilty city of Amida should serve asa funeral pile to expiate the death, and to perpetuatethe memory, of his son. AmWaf r^^ie anc'ent C^ty of Amid or Amida*, which some­times assumes the provincial appellation of Diarbekir,is advantageously situate in a fertile plain, wateredby the natural and artificial channels of the Tigris, ofwhich the least inconsiderable stream bends in a semi­circular form round the eastern part of the city.The emperor Constantius had recently conferred onAmida the honour of his own name, and the addi­tional fortifications of strong walls and lofty towers.It was provided with an arsenal of military engines,and the ordinary garrison had been reinforced to the • For the description of Amida, see d'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale, p.108. Histoire de Timur Bee, par Cherefeddin Ali, 1. iii. c. 41. Ahmed Arab-fiades, torn. i. p. 331. c. 43. Voyages de Tavernier, torn. i. p. 301. Voyagesd'Otter, torn. ii. p. 273. and Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. ii. p. 324—328. Thelast of these travellers, a learned and accurate Dane, has given a plan of Amida,jrhich illustrates the operations of the siege.