OCR Output MVY. administration of that office ; a man worthy of you,worthy of his father.' The recommendation was deemedwell founded, and all the remaining centuries votedQuintus Fabius and Publius Decius consuls. Thisyear great numbers were prosecuted by the ediles, forhaving in possession larger quantities of land than thestate allowed: and hardly any were acquitted: bywhich means a very great restraint was laid on exor­bitant covetousness. 14. Whilst the new consuls, [A.U.C. 455. B.C. 297]Quintus Fabius Maximus, a fourth, and Publius De­cius Mus, a third time, were settling between them­selves as to which should command against the Sam-nites, and which against the Etrurians, and what num­ber of forces would be sufficient for this and for thatprovince, and which would be the fitter commanderin each war, ambassadors arrived from Sutrium, Ne-pete, and Falerii, with intelligence that the states ofEtruria were holding assemblies on the subject of suingfor peace. In consequence of this information, thewhole force of their arms was directed against Sam-nium. The consuls took different routes, in order tosecure the more ready supply of provisions, and toleave the enemy in the greater uncertainty on whatquarter the war would fall. Fabius led his legions to­wards Samnium through the territory of Sora, and De­cius his through that of Sidicinum. As soon as theyarrived at the frontiers, both advanced briskly, spread­ing devastation wherever they came ; but still took careto explore the country, to a distance beyond where thetroops were employed in plundering. The enemy hadposted themselves in readiness for battle, in a retiredvalley near Tifernum ; intending, as soon as the Ro­mans should enter it, to fall on them with advantage ofthe ground ; but they escaped the snare. Fabius send­ing away his baggage to a place of safety, and settinga small guard over it, gave notice to his soldiers thata battle was at hand, and advanced to the place wherehe had been told the enemy lay in ambush. The Sam-nites, disappointed in the hope of making an unex-