OCR Output 290 LIVY. he had by this time heard that be was recalled fromSicily,) chose a spot near the river, which seemed thesafest for a fixed station, and there fortified -his camp.Hannibal took post at a small distance; and though hefelt much joy at the success of his cavalry, yet findingno less cause of anxiety in the scarcity of necessaries,daily increasing as he marched through an enemy'scountry without magazines prepared, he sent a detach­ment to the small town of Clastidium, where the Ro­mans had collected a large store of corn. Here, whilethe troops were preparing for an assault, a prospectoffered of the town being betrayed to them, and accord­ingly the commander of the garrison, one Dasius, aBrundusian, for a bribe of no great amount, only fourhundred pieces of gold,1 surrendered Clastidium toHannibal. This served the Carthaginians as a granarywhile they lay encamped on the Trebia. The prisoners,who fell into his hands on the surrender of the garrison,he treated without severity, being desirous that, at thecommencement of his proceedings, a good opinionshould be conceived of his clemency. 49. While the operations of the land forces on theTrebia were at a stand, much was effected by land andsea in and round Sicily, and the other islands adjacentto Italy, both by Sempronius the consul, and before hisarrival. Of twenty quinqueremes, sent by the Cartha­ginians with one thousand soldiers, to ravage the toastof Italy, nine arrived at Liparae, eight at the island ofVulcan, and three were driven by the current into thestrait. As soon as these were seen from Messanatwelve ships were despatched by Hiero, king of Syra­cuse, who happened to be then in that city waiting forthe Roman consul, and these took them without oppo­sition, and brought them into port to Messana. Fromthe prisoners it was discovered that, besides the fleetof twenty ships to which they belonged, and which hadbeen sent against Italy, another of thirty-five quinque­remes was on its way to Sicily, to rouse their ancient 25i. 16s. 8d.