OCR Output 1010 SIPH. and the Jehusite city afterwards; Josephus repre­sents him as taking the lower city first, and after­wards the citadel. There can be no doubt, therefore,that in Josephus's view, Sum was the lower city,and the Jehusite city the citadel;" for a comparisonof the 7th with the 9th verse in 2 S<im. v., and ofthe 5th with the 7th verse in 1 Chron. xi. can leaveno doubt that the intermediate verses in both pas­sages relate to the particulars of occupation of Sion,which particulars are narrated by Josephus of theoccupation of the upper city, here called by him bythe identical name used by the SAC rod writer, of the•* castle in which David dwelt; therefore they calledit the city of David; " and thisQpovpiov of Josephusis admitted by Mr. Thrupp to be the upper city (p.56, note 2). That the name Sion was subsequentlyused in a much wider acceptation, and applied par­ticularly to the sanctuary, is certain; and the fact iseasily explained. The tent or tabernacle erected byDavid fur the reception of the ark was certainly onMount Sion, and in the city of David (2 Sa-m. vi.12; 1 Chron. xv. 1,29), and therefore in all thelanguage of his own divine compositions, and of theother Psalmists of the conclusion of his and thecommencement of Solomon's reign. Sion was properlyidentified with the sanctuary. What could be morenatural than that, when the ark was transferred tothe newly-consecrated temple on the contiguous hill,which was actually united to its former resting-place by an artificial embankment, the significationof the name should be extended so as to comprehendthe Temple Mount, and continue the propriety andapplicability of the received phraseology of David'sand Asaph's Psalms to the new and permanentabode of the most sacred emblem of the Hebrewworship? But to attempt to found a topographicalargument on the figurative and frequently ellipticalexpressions of Psalms or prophecies is surely (obuild on a foundation of sand. It was no doubt inorder not to perplex the topography of Jerusalem bythe use of ecclesiastical and devotional terminologythat Josephus has wholly abstained from the useof the name Sion. [G. W.] SIPH or ZIPH (LXX Alex. Zt>, Vat. "Ojfc:F.th. Zt(pa7os), a rity of the tribe of Judah, men­tioned in connection with Maon, Carme], and Juttah(Jmh. xv. 55). The wilderness of Ziph was afavourite hiding-place of David when concealinghimself from the malice of Saul. (1 Sam. xxiii. 14,2*», xxvi. 1; Psalm liv. title.) This wilderness ofZiph was contiguous to the wilderness of Maon (1■Sam. xxiii. 25); and this Maon is connected withCarmel in the history of Nabal and Abigail (xxv. 2).The three names are still found u few miles south ofHebron, as Kifniel, Main, Ziph. The ruins lie ona low ridge between two small wadys. which com­mence here and run towards the Dead Sea. "Thereis here little to be seen except broken walls andfoundations, most of them of unhewn stone, but in­dicating solidity, and covering a considerable tract ofground. Numerous cisterns also remain." (Robinson,Bti>L lien. vol. ii. p. 191). Ziph is placed by St. Je­rome 8 miles E. of Hebron (S. would be more correct),and the desert of Ziph is frequently mentioned in theannals of the recluses of Palestine, while the site ofthe town was identified by travellers at least threecenturies ago. (Kiirer. Itinerarinm,p. 68.) [G.W.] SIPH A K or TIPHA (2^<w, Thuc iv. 76; Scy-lax, p. 15; Steph. B. «.t\; Ptol. Hi. 15. § 5; Plin.iv. 3. ft. 4; Ti>a, Pans. ix. 32. § 4: EtH T^aloy,Tt<f>atfvs), a town of ISocotia, upon the Corinthian gulf, which was sailTiphys, the pilot ofPausanias the inhaVspot where the sliifrom its celebrated itions a temple ofhonour an annualI.e.') Thucydides(land Stephanas II. (sdependency of Thesjby Muller and Kiepattention to the faclying \V. of Thishe;port Sardndi, nearTaxiarches, where ilenic city. On thiterritory of Thisbe ISiphae, which Leakof Thespiae over aBoeotia, whence tl«part of the Coriuthimon acceptation, be<Xorthmt Greece, vSIPUNOS or SI1Siphno Gr.t SipluAegaean sea, oneSeriphos, and NK.§ 66) describes it iconsiderably larger,island was originalancient name of Miphanus B. (j. r.).from Athens (Heroto have derived itsSunius. (Steph. B.gold and silver m:seen, the Siphnianjwere regarded, in t!as the wealthiest olsury at Delphi, in ithe produce of theiequal in wealth to tstates; and theirwith Parian marblethem to pillage; athe time of Polycrala contribution of 1The Siphnians wenAegaean who refufought with a s'mglat Salamis. (HenAthenian supremactribute of 3600 dOr. n. 52.) Thenductive; and Paussequence of the Sitenth of their treasitheir mines by antime of Strabo thethat atrrppression. (Strab. ]Jtionys. Per. 525;The moral chantctand hence to act hnsed as a term olHesych.) The Si|tiquity, as they anskill in pottery,mentions a particnling cups were madwas a species of U