OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 393 which has reached almost to our own times. But in inter­nal development also this epoch bears the same character.The old organization collapses irretrievably. The Romancommonwealth was planned as a civic community, whichthrough its free burgess-body gave to itself rulers and laws;which was governed by these duly advised rulers withinthese legal limits with kingly freedom; and around whichthe Italian confederacy, as an aggregate of free civic com­munities essentially homogeneous and cognate with theRoman, and the body of extra-Italian allies, as an aggregateof Greek free cities and barbaric peoples and principalities—both more superintended, than domineered over, by thecommunity of Rome—formed a double circle. It was thefinal result of the revolution—and both parties, the nomi­nally conservative as well as the democratic party, had co­operated towards it and concurred in it—that of thisvenerable structure, which at the beginning of the presentepoch, though full of chinks and tottering, still stood erect,not one stone was at its close left upon another. Theholder of sovereign power was now either a single man or aclose oligarchy at one time of those who were noble, at an­other of those who were wealthy. The burgesses had lostall real share in the government. The magistrates wereinstruments without independence in the hands of the holderof power for the time being. The civic community of Romehad broken down by its unnatural enlargement. The Italianconfederacy had been merged in the civic community. Thebody of extra-Italian allies was in full course of being con­verted into a body of subjects. The whole organic classifi­cation of the Roman commonwealth had gone to wreck, andnothing was left but a crude mass of more or less disparateelements. The state of matters threatened to end in utteranarchy and in the inward and outward dissolution of thestate. The political movement tended thoroughly towardsthe goal of despotism; the only point still in dispute waswhether the close circle of the noble families, or the senateof capitalists, or a monarch was to be despot. The politicalmovement followed thoroughly the paths that led to des­potism; the fundamental principle of a free commonwealth—that the contending powers should reciprocally confinethemselves to indirect coercion—had become effete in theeyes of all parties alike, and on both sides the fight forpower began to be carried on first by the bludgeon, and