OCR Output B. III. TEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. 279 themselves under the Athenian protection; but afterwards,apprehending they might not be hearty in their support,they made application to Lacedsrmbn by Tisamenus the de­legate appointed by them on this occasion. The Dorianstoo, from whom the Lacedaemonians are descended, senttheir embassadors also to accompany and join with him inthe negociation, for they likewise were infested by theseOetfeans. The Lacedaemonians, after an audience, resolvedto send out this colony, as a sure expedient not only to pro­tect the Trachinians and Dorians from insult, but to annoythe Athenians more sensibly, in the course of the war, froma city so commodiously seated. For thence they could atany time make an attack upon Euboea, as the passage wasbut short; and further, it lay most conveniently upon theroad to Thrace. In a word, they were very eager aboutbuilding this city. In the first place therefore, they beggedthe advice of the God at Delphi. His answer being favour­able, they sent out a colony composed of their own and theneighbouring people ; encouraging farther all Grecian adven­turers whatever to join in this settlement, except Ioniansand Achaeans, and some of foreign nations. Three Lace­daemonians are appointed to be the leaders of this colony ;Leon, and Alcidas, and Damagon. These arriving at thespot erect upon a new foundation and wall round the citywhich is now called Heraclea, distant about forty stadia*from Thermopyl*, and twenty from the sea. They proceed­ed next to build the naval docks ; and these they began atThermopylae close under the straits, since there the}' werecapable of the strongest defence. The Athenians, when they saw the large resort to this co­lony, were at first under great apprehensions. They sus­pected it to be chiefly intended for the annoyance of Eu­boea, as the passage from it was short to Cenaeum in Eu-bcea ; though, in the sequel, their apprehensions proved en­tirely groundless. Not the least damage accrued to them* About four miles'.