OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 427 on account, as they pretend, that the gods fled into theircountry, and saved themselves by heing changed into theshapes of wild beasts ! Whereas these Egyptians' are thevery people that appear to have never, in all the past ages,had one day of freedom, no not so much as from their ownlords. For I will not reproach them with relating themanner how the Persians used them, and this not once only,but many times, when they laid their cities waste, demolishedtheir temples, and cut the throats of those animals whomthey esteemed to be gods; for it is not reasonable to imitatethe clownish ignorance of Apion, who hath no regard to themisfortunes of the Athenians or of the Lacedemonians, thelatter of which were styled by all men the moit courageous,and the former the most religious of the Grecians. I saynothing of such kings as have been famous for piety, par­ticularly of one of them whose name was Cresas, nor whatcalamities he met with in his life; I say nothing of thecitadel of Athens, of the temple at Ephesus, of that atDelphi, nor of ten thousand others which have been burntdown, while nobody cast reproaches on those that were thesufferers, but on those that were the actors therein. Butnow we have met with Apion, an accuser of our nation,though one that still forgets the miseries of his own people,the Egyptians; but it is that Sesostris, who was once socelebrated a king of Egypt, that hath blinded him: now wewill not brag of our kings, David and Solomon, though theyconquered many nations ; accordingly, we will let them alone. 1 This notorious disgrace belonging peculiarly to the people of Egypt,ever since the times of the olil prophets of the Jews, noted both section 4already, and here, may be confirmed by the testimony of Isidorus, anEgyptian of Pelusium, Epist. lib. i. Ep. 489. And this is a rcmarkablocompletion of the ancient prediction of Ood, by Ezek. xxix. 14, 15, — '- Thatthe Egyptians should be a base kingdom, tho basest of tho kingdoms;" andthat it " should not exalt itself any more abovo the nations." The truth ofwhich still farther appears by tho present observation of Joscphus, thatthese Egyptians had never, in all the past ages since Sesostris, had one dayof liberty, no not so much as to have been free from despotic power underany of the monarchs to that day. And all this has been found equally truein the latter ages, under the Romans, Saracens, Mamraalukes, and Turks,from the days of Josephus to the present r.go also.