OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 207 ject slaves of the nobles, would have obstructed theirpassing an order on it. But he did, and ever shouldconsider the universal approbation, and will of thspeople, as equivalent to any order whatsoever.' Ac­cordingly, on the day following, being supported bythree plebeian tribunes in opposition to the protest ofthe other seven and the declared judgment of thesenate, he triumphed ; and the people paid every ho­nor to the day. In the historical accounts which havebeen transmitted to us of this year, there is some con­fusion ; Claudius asserts, that Postumius, after havingtaken several cities in Samnium, was defeated and putto flight in Apulia; and that being wounded himself,he was obliged to take refuge with a few attendants inLuceria. That the war in Etruria was conducted byAllius, and that it was he who triumphed. Fabiuswrites, that the two consuls acted in conjunction, bothin Samnium and at Luceria; that an army was ledover into Etruria, but by which of the consuls, he hasnot mentioned ; that at Luceria, great numbers wereslain on both sides : and that in that battle, the templeof Jupiter Stator was vowed, the same vow havingbeen formerly made by Romulus, but the fane only,that is the area appropriated for the temple, had beenyet consecrated. However in this year the state hav­ing been twice bound by the same vow, the senate, toavoid the guilt of neglect in the case of a religious ob­ligation, ordered the fane to be erected. 38. In the next year [A. U. C. 459. B. C. 293] wefind a consul, of a character eminently illustrious, dis­tinguished by the united splendor of his own and hisfather's glory, Lucius Papirius Cursor. We find like­wise a war of the utmost importance, and a victory ofsuch consequence, as no man, excepting Lucius Papi­rius, the consul's father, had ever before obtained overthe Samnites. It happened too that these had, withthe same care and pains as on the former occasion, de­corated their soldiers with the richest suits of splendidarmor; and they had likewise called in to their aidthe power of the gods, having, as it were, initiated tha