OCR Output 2H THE fcfcCLJNfe ANt) tAtt days, Aper delivered to she arms the supposed mandates of theirinvisible sovereign '°5.Death of Nu- It was hot till eight months after the death of Cams, that themenan. Roman army, returning by flow marches from thd banks of theTigris, arrived on those of the Thracian Botfphorus. The legionshalted at ChaTcedori in Asia, while the court passed over to He-raclea, on the European side of the Propontis ,0*. But a reportsoon circulated through the camp, at first in fec'rct whifttefs, and atlength in loud clamours, of the emperor's death, and of the pre­sumption of his ambitious minister, who still exercised the sovereignpower in the name of a prince who was no more. The impa­tience of the soldiers could not long support a state of suspense.With rude curiosity they broke into the imperial tent, and dis­covered only the corpse of Numeriah r°*. T'he gradual decline ofhis health might have induced theni to believe that his death wasnatural; but the concealment was interpreted as an evidence ofguilt, and the measures which Aper had taken to secure his election,became the immediate occasion of his ruitf. Yet, eVen in the tran­sport of their rage and grief, the troops observed a regular pro­ceeding, which proves how firmly discipline had been re-establifliedby the martial successors of Gallienus. A general assembly of thearmy was appointed to be held at Chalcedoh, whither Aper Wastransported in chains, a^ a prisoner and a criminal. A Vacanttribunal was erected in the midst of the camp, and the generals andA. r>. 284. tribunes formed a great military council. They soon announced toElectros17' &e multitude, that their choice had Fallen on Diocletian, com-theemperor mander of the domestics or body-guards, as the person the most Diocletian. , capable of revenging and succeeding their beloved emperor. Thefuture fortunes of the candidate depended on the charice Or conductof the present hour. Conscious that the station which he hadfilled, exposed him to some suspicions, Diocletian ascended the tribunal,