OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 477 banquet. Another novelty -was a dancing-school, such asScipio iEmilianus full of indignation describes in one of hisspeeches, in which upwards of five hundred boys and girls—the dregs of the people and the children of magistrates and ofdignitaries mixed up together—received instruction from aballet-master in far from decorous castanet-dances, in corre­sponding songs, and in the use of the proscribed Greekstringed instruments. It was a novelty too—not so muchthat a consular and pontifex maximus like Publius Scaevola(consul in 621) should catch the balls in the circus as nimbly 133.as he solved the most complicated questions of law at home—as that noble young Romans should display their jockey-artsbefore all the people at the festal games of Sulla. Thegovernment occasionally attempted to check such practices;as for instance in 639, when all musical instruments, with 115.the exception of the simple flute indigenous in Latium, wereprohibited by the censors. But Rome was no Sparta: thelax government by such prohibitions rather drew attentionto the evils than attempted to remedy them by a sharp andconsistent application of the laws. If, in conclusion, we glance back at the picture as a wholewhich the literature and art of Italy unfold to our view fromthe death of Ennius to the beginning of the Ciceronian age, wefind in these respects as compared with the preceding epocha most decided decline of productiveness. The higher kindsof literature—such as epos, tragedy, history—have died outor been arrested in their development. The subordinatekinds—the translation and imitation of the intrigue-piece,the farce, the poetical and prose brochure—alone prosper;in this last field of literature swept by the full hurricane ofrevolution we meet with the two men of greatest literarytalent in this epoch, Gaius Gracchus and Gaius Lucilius,who stand out amidst a number of more or less mediocrewriters just as in a similar epoch of French literatureCourier and Beranger stand out amidst a multitude of pre­tentious nullities. In the plastic and delineative arts like­wise the production, always weak, is now utterly null. Onthe other hand the receptive enjoyment of art and literatureflourished: as the Epigoni of this period in the politicalfield gathered in and used up the inheritance that fell totheir fathers, we find them in this field also as diligent fre­quenters of plays, as patrons of literature, as. connoisseursand still more as collectors in art. The most honourable