OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 43 with Theodatus to betray the province of Tuscany, chap. and tempted Amalasontha to extricate herself from' danger and perplexity, by a free surrender of thekingdom of Italy. A false and servile epistle wassubscribed by the reluctant hand of the captivequeen: but the confession of the Roman senators,who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truthof her deplorable situation; and Justinian, by thevoice of a new ambassador, most powerfully inter­ceded for her life and liberty. Yet the secret in­structions of the same minister were adapted to servethe cruel jealousy of Theodora, who dreaded the pre­sence and superior charms of a rival: he prompted,with artful and ambiguous hints, the execution of acrime so useful to the Romans *; received the intel­ligence of her death with grief and indignation, anddenounced, in his master's name, immortal war againstthe perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well as in Africa,the guilt of a usurper appeared to justify the armsof Justinian; but the forces which he prepared wereinsufficient for the subversion of a mighty kingdom,if their feeble numbers had not been multiplied bythe name, the spirit, and the conduct of a hero. Achosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, andwere armed with lances and bucklers, attended theperson of Belisarius: his cavalry was composed oftwo hundred Huns, three hundred Moors, and fourthousand confederates, and the infantry consistedonly of three thousand Isaurians. Steering the samecourse as in bis former expedition, the Roman con­sul cast anchor before Catana in Sicily, to survey thestrength of the island, and to decide whether heshould attempt the conquest, or peaceably pursue his * Yet Procopius discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c. 16), by confessingthat in his public history he had not spoken the truth. Sec the Epistles fromqueen Oundelina to the empress Theodora (Var. x. 20, 21. 23, and observe asuspicious word, dc ilia persona, &c.). with the elaborate Commentary of Buat(tom. x. p. 177-185).