OCR Output CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 241 gence, of all others, was least expected, or looked for;and the terror and consternation it occasioned at Rome,was much the same, as if the city itself, and not thecamp, had been invested. The consul Nautius was sent for; but that their onlyconfidence might not be placed in him, they judged itproper to name a dictator, to retrieve their embarrassedaffairs, and pitched upon L. Quinctius Cincinnatus, withon'e consent, for that purpose. It is worth any one's while, who makes light of everything but riches, and who imagines, that without them,there can be no real greatness, no virtue,—to listen at­tentively to the following narrative. This same LuciusQuinctius, the'prop and stay of the Roman people, livedin the country, on the other side of the Tiber, and culti­vated with his own hands, a small piece of land of fouracres, called the Quinctian meadows, opposite that veryplace, where the ship-docks now are. The senate's de­puties found him there, trenching with the spade, or atplough; at least, one thing is certain, that he was busilyemployed about his farm. After the usual complimentson both sides were passed, they begged him,- " To put"on his gown, and hear the senate's message, praying it"might prove auspicious both to himself and the state."Struck wifh admiration, he asked them, " If all was"well?" Then turning to his wife Racilia, " Go,"says he, " make haste and fetch my gown :" and wipingthe dust and sweat from his face, he put it on and re­joined them. The deputies straight saluted him Dictator,with great demonstrations of joy, invited him to the city,and informed him of the critical situation of the army.A barge belonging to the state was waiting to conveyhim to the city. His three sons, his other relations andfriends, and the greatest-part of the senators, were wait­ing to receive him at his landing. With this attendance,preceded by the lictors he was conducted to his house.Crowds of the Plebeians likewise put themselves in histrain, although his arrival to them was not over-agree­able; for they thought his authority too extensive, andhimself too severe in the execution of it. They keptwatch in the city all that night.