OCR Output 432 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Hereupon he came to Jerusalem, and re­proved Onias for not taking care of the pre­servation of his countrymen; but bringingthe nation into dangers, by not paying thismoney. For which preservation of them, hetold him, he had received the authority overthem, and had been made high-priest. Butthat, in case he was so great a lover of money,as to endure to see his country in danger onthat account, and his countrymen suffer thegreatest damages, he advised him to go to theking, and to petition him to remit either thewhole, or a part of the sum demanded. Oniasreplied, that he did not care for his authority;and that he was ready, if the thing was prac­ticable, to lay down his high-priesthood; andthat he would not go to the king; because hetroubled not himself at all about such mat­ters. Joseph then asked him, if he would notgive him leave to go ambassador on behalf ofthe nation? He replied that he would givehim leave. Hereupon Joseph went up intothe temple, and called the multitude togetherto a congregation; and exhorted them not tobe disturbed, nor affrighted, because of hisuncle Onias's carelessness; but desired themto be at rest, and not terrify themselves withfear about it; for he promised, that he wouldbe their ambassador to the king, and per­suade him, that they had done him no wrong.And when the multitude heard this they re­turned thanks to Joseph.. So he went down from the temple, andtreated Ptolemy's ambassador in a hospitablemanner. He also presented him with richgifts and feasted him magnificently for manydays; and then sent him to the king beforehim; and told him that he would soon followhim. For he was now more willing to go tothe king by the encouragement of the ambas­sador; who earnestly persuaded him to comeinto Egypt; and promised that he should ob­tain every thing that he desired of Ptolemy.For he was highly pleased with his frank andliberal temper, and with the gravity of hisdeportment. When Ptolemy's ambassador was come intoEgypt, he told the king of the thoughtlesstemper of Onias; and informed him of thegoodness of the disposition of Joseph; and days of Abraham, Genesis xxi. 22, and might possiblybr; the place of that Phicol's nativity or abode. For it that he was coming to him, to excuse themultitude, as not having done him any harm;for that he was their patron. In short, he wasso very warm in his encomiums upon theyoung man, that he disposed both the kingand his wife Cleopatra to have a kindnessfor him, before he came. So Joseph sent tohis friends at Samaria, and borrowed moneyof them; and got ready what was necessaryfor his journey; garments, and cups, andbeasts for burden, which amounted to abouttwenty thousand drachmae; and went to Alex­andria. Now it happened, that at this timeall the principal men and rulers went up outof the cities of Syria and Phoenicia, to bid fortheir taxes. For every year the king soldthem to the men of the greatest power inevery city. So these men saw Joseph jour­neying on his way; and laughed at him forhis poverty and meanness. But when hecame to Alexandria, and heard that kingPtolemy was at Memphis; he went up thitherto meet with him; which happened as theking was sitting in his chariot, with his wife,and his friend Athenion; who was the veryperson who had been ambassador at Jeru­salem, and been entertained by Joseph. Assoon, therefore, as Athenion saw him, he pre­sently made known to the king, how good andhow generous a young man he was. SoPtolemy saluted him, and desired him tocome up in his chariot; and as Joseph satthere, he began to complain of the manage­ment of Onias. To which he answered,"Forgive him, on account of his age; forthou canst not certainly be unacquaintedwith this, that old men and infants have theirminds exactly alike. But thou shalt havefrom us, who are young men, every thingthou desirest; and shalt have no cause tocomplain." With this good humour andpleasantry of the young man, the king was sodelighted, that he began already, as thoughhe had long experience of him, to have a stillgreater affection for him; insomuch that hebade him take his diet in the king's palace;and be a guest at his own table every day.But when the king was come to Alexandria,the principal men of Syria saw him sittingwith the king, and were much offended at it seems to hare been in the south part of Palestine, aa thatwas