OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 497 Saturn, when he was king of the country, and had by a nymphof that country, named Anobret, an only begotten son, whom,on that account, they called Jeud (the Phoenicians to this daycalling an only begotten son by that name,) he, in his dreadof very great dangers that lay upon the country from war,adorned his son with royal apparel, and built an altar, andoffered him in sacrifice." "' The Phoenicians, when they were in great dangers bywar, by famine, or by pestilence, sacrificed to Saturn one ofthe dearest of their people, whom they chose by public suf­frage for that purpose : and Sanchoniatho's Phoenician historyis full of such sacrifices. [These hitherto I take to have beenbefore the flood."] "2In Arabia, the Dumatii sacrificed a child every year." "3They relate, that of old the [Egyptian] kings sacrificedsuch men as were of the same color with Typho, at the sepulehreof Osiris." " ' Manctho relates, that they burnt Typhonean men alivein the city Idithyia [or Ilithyia,] and scattered their asheslike chaff that is winnowed; and this was done publicly, andat a set season, in the dog-days." "5 The barbarous nations did a long time admit of theslaughter of children, as of a holy practice, and acceptable tothe gods. And this thing both private persons, and kings,and entire nations practice at proper seasons." "6The human sacrifices that were enjoined by the Dodo-nean oracle, mentioned in Pausanias's Achaies, in the tragicalstory of Coresus and Callirrhoe, sufficiently intimate that thePhoenician and Egyptian priests had set up this Dodoneanoracle before the time of Amosis, who destroyed that barbarouspractice in Egypt." Ieque adytis hcec (ristia dicta reporlat, Saaguine placastis veatos, et virgiae caisa.Cum primum Jliacus Danui venislis ad oras;Sanguine qucerendi reditus, aaimaque litandumArgoliea.1 1 Porphyry, p. 78. 2 Porphyry, p. 77. 3 Diod. p. 78. * Plutarch, p. 78. 6 Nonnulli ap. Philon. p. 76. • Cumbcrl. Sanchon. p. 38. ' Virg. /Eneid. B. ii. ver. 115. 42*