OCR Output V. I.] AGAINST APION. 371 also called captives in their sacred books." And this accountof his is the truth; for feeding of sheep was the employment'of our forefathers in the most ancient ages, and as they ledsuch a wandering life in feeding sheep, they were called shep­herds. Nor was it without reason that they were called cap­tives by the Egyptians, since one of our ancestors, Joseph,told the king of Egypt that he was a captive,2 and afterwardsent for his brethren into Egypt by the king's permission.But as for these matters I shall make a more exact inquiryabout them elsewhere.3 15. But now I shall produce the Egyptians as witnesses tothe antiquity of our nation. I shall, therefore, here bring inManetho again, and what he writes as to the order of thetimes in this case: and thus he speaks.—"When this peopleor shepherds were gone out of Egypt to Jerusalem, Tethmo-sis the king of Egypt who drove them out reigned afterwardtwenty-five years and four months, and then died; after himhis son Chebron took the kingdom for thirteen years; afterwhom came Amenophis, for twenty years and seven months;then came his sister Amesses, for twenty-one years and ninemonths : after her came Mephres, for twelve years and ninemonths; after her was Mephramuthosis, for twenty-five yearsand ten months; after him was Thmosis, for nine years andeight months; after him came Amenophis, for thirty yearsand ten months; after him came Orus, for thirty-six yearsand five months; then came his daughter Acencheres, fortwelve years and one month; then was her brother Rathotis,for nine years; then was Acencheres, for twelve years andfive months; then came another Acencheres, for twelve yearsand three months; after him Armais, for four years and onemonth; after him was Ramesses, for one year and fourmonths ; after him came Armesses Miammoun, for sixty yearsand two months; after him Amenophis, for nineteen years iGen. xlvi. 32,.34; xlvii, 3, 4. * In our copies of the book of Genesis and of Joscphus, this Joseph nevercalls himself a captive, when ho was with the king of Egypt, though he doescall himself a servaat, a slave, or a captive, many times in tho Testament ofthe twelve Patriarchs, under Joseph, sect. I, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16. s This is now wanting.