OCR Output 490 ROMAN EMPIRE. ragius) that they are the elect of God, his best andmost useful servants, whose lives are devoted to the im­provement of their rational faculties. The mean am­bition of the Chinese or the Turks may glory in the in­dustry of their hands, or (he indulgence of their brutalappetites. Yet these dexterous artists must view, withhopeless emulation, the hexagons and pyramids of thecells of a bee-hive / these fortitudinous heroes are awed bythe superior fierceness of the lions and tigers; and intheir amorous enjoyments, they are much inferior to thevigour of the grossest and most sordid quadrupeds. Theteachers of wisdom are the true luminaries and legislatorsof a world, which, without their aid, would again sink inignorance and barbarism.* The zeal and curiosity ofAlmamon were imitated by succeeding princes of the lineof Abbas: their rivals, the Fatimites of Africa and theOmmiades of Spain, were the patrons of the learned, aswell as the commanders of the faithful: the same royalprerogative was claimed by their independent emirs ofthe provinces; and their emulation diffused the taste andthe rewards of science from Samarcand and Bochara toFez and Cordova. The vizier of a sultan consecrateda sum of two hundred thousand pieces of gold to thefoundation of a college at Bagdad, which he endowedwith an annual revenue of fifteen thousand dinars. Thefruits of instruction were communicated, perhaps at dif­ferent times, to six thousand disciples of every degree,from the son of the noble to that of the mechanic: a 1 See their curious architecture in Reaumar. (Hist, dcs Insects, torn. 5. Ale-moire 8.) These hexagons are closed by a pyramid; the angles of the three sidesof a similar pyramid, such as would accomplish the given end with the smallestquantity possible of materials, were determined by a mathematician, at one hun­dred and nine degrees iweuty-six minutes for the larger, seventy degrees thirty-fourminutes for the smaller. The actusl measure is one hundred and nine degreestwenty-eight minutes, seventy degrees thirty-two minutes. Yet this perfect har­mony raises the work at the expense of the artist; the bees are not masters oftranscendant geometry. f Saed Abu Ahmed, cadhi of Toledo, who died A. II. 462, A. D. 1069, has fur­nished Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 160,) with this curious passage, as well as withthe text of Pocock e Specimen Historis Araburn. A number of literary anecdotesof philosophers, physicians, &c. who have flourished under each caliph, form theprincipal merit of the dynasties of Abulpharagius.