OCR Output 220 ROMAN EMPIRE. or succeeding ages;* the walls of Rome, the sacredpatrimony, the ruin of the Lombards, and the friendshipof Charlemagne, were the trophies of his fame: hesecretly edified the throne of his successors, and dis­played in a narrow space the virtues of a great prince.His memory was revered; but in the next election, apriest of the Lateran, Leo III. was preferred to thenephew and the favourite of Hadrian, whom he hadpromoted to the first dignities of the church. Their ac­quiescence or repentance disguised, above four years, theblackest intention of revenge, till the day of. a proces­sion, when a furious band of conspirators dispersed theunarmed multitude, and assaulted with blows andwounds the sacred person of the pope. But their en­terprise on his life or liberty was disappointed, perhapsby their own confusion and remorse. Leo was left fordead on the ground: on his revival from the swoon, theeffect of his loss of blood, he recovered his speech andsight; and this natural event was improved to the mira­culous restoration of his eyes and tongue, of which hehad been deprived, twice deprived, by the knife of theassassins/ From his prison, he escaped to the Vatican;the duke of Spoleto hastened to his rescue, Charlemagnesympathized in his injury, and in his camp of Pader-born in Westphalia accepted or solicited a visit from theRoman pontiff. Leo repassed the Alps with a com­mission of counts and bishops, the guards of his safety Post pattem lacrymans Carolns tee carmina scipsi.Tu mihi dulcis amor, te modo plango pater . . .Nomina jungo simul titulis, clarissime, nostraAdrianus, Carolns, rex ego, tuque pater. The poetry might be supplied by Alcuin; but the tears, the most glorious tribute,can only belong to Charlemagne. * Every new pope is admonished—" Sancte Pater, non videbis annos Petri,"twenty-five years. On the whole series the average is about eight years—a shorthope for an ambitious cardinal. J The assurance of Anastasius (torn. 3. pars 1. p. 197, 198.) is supported by thecredulity of some French annalists ; but Egmhard, and other writers of the same age,are more natural and sincere. "Unus ei oculus paullulum est liesus," says John thedeacon of Naples. (Vit. Episcop. Napol. in Scriptores Muratori, torn. 1. pars •.'.p. 31t.) Theodolphus, a contemporary bishop of Orleans, observes with prudence,(lib. 3. cam. 3.) / Reddita snnt? minim est: minim est auferre nequisse.Eat tamen in dubio, hinc mirer an inde magis.