OCR Output Chap. XI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 281 and among them he required one Malichus, who was at enmitywith him, to do his part also, which necessity forced him to do.Now Herod, in the first place, mitigated the passion of Gassius,by bringing his share out of Galilee, which was an hundred ta­lents, on which account he was in the highest favour with him ;and when he reproached the rest for being tardy, he was angryat the cities themselves ; so he made slaves of Gophna and Em-maus, and two others of less note ; nay, he proceeded as if hewould kill Malichus, because he had not made greater haste inexacting his tribute ; but Antipater prevented the ruin of thisman, and of the other cities, and got into * Cassius's favour bybringing in' an hundred talents immediately. 3. However, when Cassius was gone, Malichus forgot thekindness that Antipater had done him, and laid frequent plotsagainst him that had saved him, as making haste to get him outof the way, who was an obstacle to his wicked practices ; butAntipater -was so much afraid of the power and cunning of theman, that he went beyond Jordan in order to get an army toguard himself against his treacherous designs ; but when Mali­chus was caught in his plot, he put upon Antipater's sons by hisimpudence, for he thoroughly deluded Phasaelus, who was theguardian of Jerusalem, and Herod who was intrusted with theweapons of war, and this' by a great many excuses and oaths, andpersuaded them to procure his reconciliation to his father. Thuswas he preserved again by Antipater, who dissuaded Marcus,the then president of Syria, from his resolution of killing Mali­chus, on account of his attempts for innpyation. 4. Upon the war between Cassius ancf Brutus on one side, a-gainst the younger Caesar [Augustus] and Antony on the other,Cassius and Marcus got together an army out of Syria ; and be­cause Herod was likely to have a great share in providing neces­saries, they then made him procurator of all Syria, and gave himan army of foot and horse. Cassius promised him also> that afterthe war was over, he would make him king of Judea ; but it sohappened, that tke power and hopes of his son became the causeof his perdition ; for, as Malichus was afraid of this, he corrupt­ed one of the king's cup-bearers with money, to give a poisonedpotion to Antipater; so he became a sacrifice to Malichus's wic­kedness, and died at a feast. He was a man in other respects ac- VOL. III. N n live * It appears evidently by Josephus's accounts, both here and in his AntiquitiesB.'XIV. ch. xi. sect. i. that this Cassius, oneof Caesar's murderers, was a bitteroppressor, and exacter of tribute in .judea, these 700 talents amount to aboutL. 300,000 Sterling, and are about half the yearly revenues of king Herod after.wards. See the note on Antiq. B. XVII. ch. xi. sect. 4. It abo appears thatGalilee then paid no more than 100 talents, or the 7th part of the entire sum tobe levied in all the cpuntry.