OCR Output PYLUS. PYLUS. 683 IV Xmrmo and its maps of which the former con-localitj. and the latter the fortress ofneighbourhood on MAP or THE BAY OF PYLUS. J- *nt».nerla (SpAn/ia). K- IVui on tbe prutnootory Corjphailura (Old Xa- i mi ).IT Tae meoVrn .Vdrarl«w.D. JU7 of Ptliu ( Buy of Samino). fat chief discrepancy between the account of■7 Liea and tbc existing state of the cotu>t isM b tbe width of the two entrances into thed A'asortao. the northern entrance being about1 nroa wide, and the southern not less than bc- • 1100 sad MOO yards; whereas Thucydidesn ii» former admitted only two triremes abreast,um iatter only eight or nine. Therefore not only» actual width of the two entrances very muchcarload at stated by Thucydides, but this widtha at the proportion of the number of triremes;1 are eat aa 8 or 9 to 2, but as 17 to 2. To ex-1 that difficulty CoL Leake supposes that Thu-Ba wa* nuainfonm-d respecting the breadth of—nrfWT to tbe harbour. But to this a satis­fy reply ia given by Dr. Arnold, that not onlr o «amou false estimate of distances haveairs a passage of nearly 1400 yards in widthaa » narrow as to admit only eight or nine • airswt, bat still less could it have been sup­s' pssilili to choke up snch a passage by abiu I me of ships, lying broadside to broad-, »avh Thucydides tells us tbe Lacedaemonianaanaen intended to do. Moreover the northernMaw has bow a shoal or bar of sand lying acrossa wbch there are not more than 18 inches■■Bar; whereas the narrative of Thucydides im-1 'ia: there was sufficient depth of water for■as to sad in unobstructed. The length of 17 stadia, which Thucydides ascribes to Sphacteria,does not agree with the actual length of Sphagia,which is 25 stadia. Lastly Thucydides, speakingof the bay of Print, calls it " a harbour of con- MAI" OF PTI.US AND ITS IMMEDIATENEIGHBOURHOOD. A. Pyloi (Old Xapar'tno). B. Sphacteria (Spkagia). C. Lagoon of Osmyn-Aga.1). Port of foidkg- K oJ, E. Bay of Pylus (Bay of Surarino).a. Cave of Hermes. 6. Small channel connecting the lagoon 0/ Osmyn-Aga with the Bay of Savai'tno. siderable magnitude" (Ai/t«Vi ovri ov omnptp); anexpression which seems strange to be applied to thespacious Bay of Aaron'no, which was not only thelargest harbour in Greece, but perfectly unlike theordinary harbours of the Greeks, which were alwaysclosed artificially at the mouth by projecting moleswhen they were not sufficiently land-locked bynature. In consequence of these difficulties Dr. Arnoldraised the doubt whether the island now calledSphagia be really the same as the ancient Sphacteria,and whether the Bag of Savarinc be the real har­bour of Pylus. He started the hypothesis that thepeninsula, on which the ruins of Old Nararinostand, is the ancient island of Sphacteria con­verted into a peninsula by an accumulation of sandat either side; and that the lagoon of Osmyn-Aga,on its eastern side was the real harbour of Pylus,into which there was an opening on the north, atthe port of Voidhv-Kilid, capable of admitting twotriremes abreast, and another at the south, wherethere is still a narrow opening, by which eightnine triremes may have entered the lagoon f <n from the" I