OCR Output ANTIQUITY OF THE JEWS. FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS AGAINST APION.' BOOK I. § 1. I suppose that, by my books of the Antiquity of theJews, most excellent Epaphroditus,2 I have made it evidentto those who peruse them, that our Jewish nation is of very 1 This first book has a wrong title. It is not written against Apion, as isthe first part of the second book, but against those Greeks in general whowould not believe Joscphus's former accounts of the very ancient state ofthe Jewish nation, in his XX Books of Antiquities; and in particular againstAgatharchides, Manetho, Chercmon, and Lysimachus. It is one of the mostlearned, excellent, and useful books of all antiquity; and upon Jerome'sperusal of this and the following books, he declares, that "it seems to hima miraculous thing, how one that was a Hebrew, who had been from hisinfancy instructed in sacred learning, should be able to produce such anumber of testimonies out of profane authors, as if he had read over all theGrecian libraries." Epist. 84, ad magnum: And the learned Jew, Manas-seh-ben-Israel, esteemed these two books so excellent, as to translate theminto Hebrew: this wo learn from his own catalogue of his works which Ihave seen. As to the time and place when and where these two books werewritten, the learned have not hitherto been able to determine them, anyfarther than that they were written some timo after his Antiquities, or sometime after A. D. 93, which, indeed, is too obvious at their entrance to beoverlooked even by a careless peruser; they being directly intended againstthose that would not believe what he had advanced in those books concern­ing the great antiquity of the Jewish nation. As to the place, they allimagine that these two books were written where tho former were, I meanat Rome; and I confess, that I myself believed both those determinationstill I came to finish my notes upon these books, when I met with plain indi­cations that they were written not at Rome, but in Judea, and this afterthe third year of Trajan, or A. D. 100. 2 Take Dr. Hudson's note here, which, as it justly contradicts the commonopinion that Josephus cither died under Domitian, or at least wrote nothing (355)