OCR Output B. IV. 329 YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. made by their law, in case their generals drop. Styphonintimated his desire of leave to send over to the Lacedaemo­nians on the continent for advice. This the Athenians re­fused, but however called over some heralds to him from thecontinent. Messages passed backwards and forwards twiceor thrice; but the last who crossed over to them from theLacedaemonians on the continent brought this determination—" The Lacedaemonians permit you to take care of your ownconcerns, provided you submit to nothing base." In conse­quence of this, after a short consultation with one anotherapart, they delivered up their arms and their persons. Theremainder of the day and the succeeding night the Atheni­ans confined them under a strong guard. But the day follow­ing, having erected a trophy upon the island, they got them­selves in readiness to sail away, and distributed the prisonersto the custody of the captains of the triremes. The Lacedae­monians, having obtained permission by a herald, fetched ofTtheir dead. The number of those who were slain, and those who weretaken alive, stood thus: They who had thrown themselvesinto the island amounted in the whole to four hundred andtwenty heavy-armed. Of these three hundred wanting eightwere carried off alive, the rest had been destroyed. Amongthe prisoners were about one hundred and twenty Spartans.The number of Athenians slain was inconsiderable : for itwas not a standing fight. The whole space that these menwere besieged in the island, from the engagement at seatill the battle in the island, was seventy-two days. Twentyof these, during the absence of the ambassadors to nego-ciate an accommodation, they were supplied with food: Theremainder of the time, they were fed by such as got overby stealth. Nay, meal and other eatables were found inthe island, even when all was over. Their commander, Epi-tadas, had made a more sparing distribution than his storesrequired. Now the Athenians and Peloponnesians respectively drewoff their forces from Pylus to return home : And the promise