OCR Output MEGALOPOLIS. 309 MEGALOPOLIS. only the cohimu remained in the time of Pausanias. -'-.■:* AGORA OF MEGALOPOLIS. A. Sanctwirjr of Zeus. B. Statu* <>f Apollo. <". Temple of the Mother of the Godi.T). Slo* of Philip. E. Temple of Hermes. F. Sin* of the Archives. G. Sc>M of Mytopolis.H. Statue of Poltbills. L Stoa of Ari*tander.L. Temple of Zei^s Soter.M. S«re*1 I ni losurc of the Great Goddesses.N. Grnuutlura. On the northern side of the Agora lay the Stoa ofPhilip, the son of Amyntas, which was namedin honour of this king, on account of the servicesbe had rendered to Megalopolis. Near it werethe remains of the temple of Hermes Acaeesius.Alongside of the Stoa of Philip, was another smallerS: a. containing the Archives (ra opx*«0i an<*consisting of six compartments. Behind the Stoaof the Archives was a temple of Tyche (Fortune). The Stoa called Myropolis, where the shops of theperfumers stood, was probably on the eastern side ofthe Agora. It was built from the spoils of the La­cedaemonians under Acrotatus, when they were de­feated by Aristodemus. Between itandtiie sanctuaryof Zeus was the statue of Polybius. To the left ofthis statue was the Bouleuterium, or Senate House.Id the south of the Agora may be placed the Stoaof Aristander, named after its founder. At theeastern end of this Stoa, wad a Peripteral Temple ofZeaa Soter, containing a statue of the god seatedbetween the goddesses Megalopolis and Artemis So-leira. At the other, or western end of the sameStoa, was the sacred inclosure of the Great God­desses Demeter and Core (Persephone), containingseveral temples. The Gymnasium stood on thewestern side of the Agora. To the north of the Agora, behind the Stoa ofPhilip, there were two .small heights, on one ofwhich stood the ruins of the temple of Athena Po­los, and on the other those of Hera Teleia, Thefoundations of these temples are still visible. Atthe f»)t of the temple of Hera Teleia was the streamBtihyllus, flowing into the Helisson. Parallel tothe Bathyllus is another stream; and the hill be­tween these two streams is, perhaps, the SculeitasRKntioned by Pausanias (viii. 31. § 7), who saysthat it lies within the walls, and that a stream de­scends from it to the Helisson. Same excavations were made on the site of Mega-lopJ'is by Boss in 1834, but nothing of importancewas found. Pausanias also gives a minute account of the prin­cipal n«ds leading from Megalopolis. Of these hemtati'joa eight, leading respectively to Messene, Car- nasium, Sparta, Methydrium, Maenalus, Pbigaleia,Tegea and Heraea. 1. The road to Messene passed, at the distance of7 stadia from the city, a temple of the goddessescalled Maniae, a name of the Eumenides, becauseOrestes here became insane on account of the murderof his mother. A little further was a small heap ofearth, called the Monument of the Finger, becauseOrestes, in his madness, here bit off one of his fingers;still further was a place called Ace*, because Oresteswas here healed of his disorder, containing anothertemple of the Eumenides; and lastly a sanctuarynamed Cureium, because Orestes here cut off hishair. These stations lay between the villages Sinanoand St. Beiy in the district where there are four tu­muli. From the Maniae there was a distance of 15stadia to the Alpheius, near the place where it re­ceives the Gatheatas, joined by the Carnion. Thisunited stream is the Xerilo Potamo. From the Al­pheius the road led to Cromi, a distance of 40 sta­dia, and from Cromi to Nymphcs, a distance of 20stadia. Nymphus was a place abounding in waterand trees, from which there were 30 stadia to theHkkmaeim, which marked the boundaries of Me­galopolis and Messcnia. (Paus. viii. 34.) 2. The road to Carnasium, in Messema, ran northof the former road, but parallel to it. It crowed theAlpheius, where it is joined to the united waters ofthe Malus (MaAovs) and Scyrls (2«Cpos). TheMai us is probably the river of Xeokhori, which,a littlewestward of Dedebey^ receives a small stream answer­ing to the Seyms. After proceeding from thence 30stadia on the right bank of the Malus, you crossedthe river and ascended, by a steep path, to a villagecalled Phakdkias (♦at&'pfas), which appears to havestood on the height above Neolchori. Fifteen stadiafurther was the Hermakcm, named Despoena, an­other boundary between the territories of Megalopolisand Messenia. (Paus. viii. 35. §§ 1, 2.) 3. The road to Sparta was for the most part the sameas the modern road from Leondari toMistra. At thedistance of 30 stadia the road crossed the Alpheius,where it is joined by the TheiCs (©eiors), now calledKutufarina. From thence the road followed the leftbank of the Theius for 40 stadia to Piialf.siak(•VaAauJiat), which was 20 stadia distant from the1Ii-.kmai.im towards Belemina. About 20 stadiabeyond is the division of the waters flowing south­ward to the Eurotas, and northward to the Alpheius.(Paus. viii. 35, seq.) 4. The road to Methydrium was 170 stadia inlength. It ran northwards from Megalopolis throughthat portion of central Arcadia which was sur­rounded by the rivers Gortynius, Alpheius, and He­lisson. Thirteen stadia from the city was a placecalled Scias (2«ids), with a temple of Artemis Sci-atis, founded by the tyrant Aristodemus. Ten stadiafurther lay Chakisiar (Xapitriai), and from thence,a' the distance of another 10 stadia, was Tricoloni(T/JiKd'Aewoi). These two cities were in ruins in thotime of Pausanias. Tricoloni, which was founded bythe sons of Lycaon, still posses&ed a temple of Po­seidon, standing upon a hill in a grove of trees. Wemay place Tricoloni near the modern Karatiila, onthe edge of the plain of Megalopolis. At Methydriumtwo side roads branched off from the main road.The road to the left went by Zoetia (10 stadia). Pa-roreia (10 stadia), and Thyracum (15 stadia), toHypsus. Zoktia (Zom'a, Paus.; Zorrttor, Zof-raoj Staph. B. *. v.) and Pakorkia (Uapwptta)were founded by Tricolonus. They were in ruins x 3