OCR Output MELAS SINUS. MELIBOEA. 319 name answering to the ancient Melas, Kara-Su,that is, the Black River. 2. A navigable river in Pamphylia, flowing in asouthern direction from Mount Taurus towards thetea, into which it emptied itself 50 stadia to theeast of Side. (Plin. v. 22; Strab. xiv. p. 667; Paus.viii. 28. § 2; Mela, i. 14; Zosim. v. 16, vi. 3; Sta-diam. Mar. Magn. §§ 193,194.) Its modern nameis Mexaryai-Su. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 196.) 3. A small river in Pontus Polemoniacus, in thecountry of the Macrunra. (Plin. vi. 4.) [L. S.] MELAS SINUS. [Melas, No. 5.]MELDI (M«\S(u, Ptol. ii. 8. § 15), a people ofGallia Celtica or Lugdunensis in Ptolemy's time,whose chief place was Iatinum; but the positionwhich Ptolemy aligns to the Meldae and to Iatinumis very incorrect, if the Meldi are properly placed asneighbours of the Parisii and on the Matrona(.Vorne). Strabo is not clearer. He says(iv.p. 194:—-"On both sides of the Sequana there are the Parisii,who possess an island in the river and a cityLotecia, and Meldae, and Lexovii, along the Oceanthese ;" by which he perhaps means only the Lex-orii, but he might mean to say that the Meldaewere on the Ocean. Pliny (iv. 18) mentions inLogdunensis Gallia "Meldi Liberi, Parisii, Tre-castes." From aN this we may inter that the Meldiwere near tiie Parisii; but we only obtain a certainresult as to their position from that of Iatinum[Iatisum] and other evidence. Gregory of Toursspeaks of the "Comitatus Meldensis;" the "terri-torium Meldicum" is mentioned in the Gesta ofDagobm L; and in the Capitularies of Charlemagnethe *• Melcianus Pagua " is placed between the " Pa-rbiacus " and " Miludensis," or the Pagus of Melodu-nutn (Melon), and as the Melcianus occupies the spacebetween the two other Pagi, it must comprise thedVcese of Meoux. Thus we obtain with certaintythe position of the Meldi. (D'Anville, Notice, <fc.) Caesar (B. G. T. 5) mentions the Meldi once;and the passage has caused great difficulty. Thename Meldi in Caesar's text is not certain. TheMSS. have Medi, Melui, Hedui, Meldi, and Belgae.Caesar, intending to invade Britannia a second time,ordered the legali who were set over his legions toget ships built in the winter of B. c. 55—54. Allhis legions were in the country of the Belgaeduring this winter (B. G. iv. 38); and it 6eems aproper inference that all these ships were built inthe country of the Belgae. When Caesar in thespring of B. c. 54 came to the Portus Itius, heivond all the ships there except sixty which werebuilt " in Meldis." These ships being driven backby had weather, had returned to the place fromwhich they sailed. The wind which brought the otherthirst to the Portus Itius, which ships must haverace from the south, would not suit ships that camefrom the north and east; and hence D'Anville justlyconcluded that these Meldi, whatever may be thetrue name, most have been north and east of Itius.A resemblance of words led him to find the name ofthe Meldi in a place which he calls Mtldfelt nearhntyes. The true name of the place is Moldeghcm,litre is a place on the Scheldt about a league from(hdtmatrde, named Melden, which under the Empirewas a Roman station (Recueil dAntiquites, cfe. trou-«wi dans la Flandre, par M. J. de Bast). This iscertainly not very conclusive evidence for fixingthe site of the Meldi; if that is the right name."Belgae " cannot be the true reading, because all theship* were built in the territory of the Belgae; and Caesar's remark about the sixty would have nomeaning, if he spoke of them as built "in Belgis." If we cannot fix the site of these Meldi, we cansee that they are not the people on the Marne.Caesar could have no reason for building vessels sofar up the river. If he did build any on the Seine,he built them lower down. But it is clear thatCaesar does not mean any vessels built on the Seine,for be says that these sixty were driven back to theplace from which they came; a remark which, ifapplied to ships built on the Seine, is without anymeaning. Ukert (GaUien, p. 325) has made somoobjection to DAnviUe's position of the Meldi, andhis objections may have some weight; but hisnotion that Caesar's Meldi can be the Meldi on thoMarne shows that he did not understand Caesar'stext. [G. L.] MELDIA (MeASIo), a town of Moesia Superior,on the road from Naissus to Sardica. (It. Ant.p. 135 ; It. Hieros. p. 566.) [A L.] MELES (MeAijs), a small river of Ionia, flowingclose by the walls of Smyrna, and discharging itswaters into the Hermaean gulf. (Strab. xii. p. 554,xiv. p. 646.) The little stream derives its cele­brity from its connection with the legends aboutHomer, and from a report about the healing powersof its waters. There was a tradition that near thesources of the river Meles there was a cave in whichHomer had composed his epic poems, whence he issometimes called M*\Tioiyfrhs. (Paus. vii. 5. § 6;Vit. Horn. 2; Stat. Silv. iii. 3. 60, 7. 33; Tibull.iv. 1. 200.) The belief in the healing power of itswaters is attested by an inscription quoted byArundell (Asia Minor, vol. ii. p. 406) and Ha­milton (Researches, vol. ii. Append. No. 48). Thesecircumstances are of some importance in identifyingthe river. It used to be supposed that a small,dirty, and muddy stream, flowing close by themodern town of Smyrna, was the same as theancient Meles. But there is another stream, withbright and sparkling water, which rushes over itsrocky bed near Bournoubat, and is still celebratedfor its agreeable and wholesome qualities. Tra­vellers are now justly inclined to identify this riverwith the ancient Meles. This supposition is con­firmed by our more accurate knowledge of the site ofancient Smyrna, which was on the north of the bay,while new Smyrna was on the south of it, at adistance of 20 stadia from the former; the site of theancient place is still marked by a few ruins; andclose by them flows the clear stream which we mustassume to be the ancient Meles. (Comp. Horn. Hymn.viii. 3; Ptol. v 2. § 7; Steph. B.s. v. M<Aijrou n6\iros,according to whom the river was also called Meletus;Plin. v. 31; Hamilton, Researches, vol. i. p. 51,foil.) [L. S.] MIX ESSES, a people in the S. of Spain, uponwhoso confines was situated the rich city of Oringis,also called Aurinx. (Liv. xxviii. 3.) [Aukinx.] MELIB0CUS(t6 Kn\iSoKor opof),amountaiii inthe interior of Germany, above the Semanus Silva.(Ptol. ii. 11. § 7.) There can be little doubt thatMelibocus is the ancient name for the Harz mountain,or the Thurinyer icald, or for both. [L. S.] MELIBOEA, an island at the mouth of theOrontes in Syria, the sole authority for the existenceof which appears to be a poetical myth of Oppianus.(Cyneyet. ii. 115, &c.) [G. W ] MELIBOEA (M«W«oia: Eth. MfXieWr). 1. Anancient town of Magnesia in Thessaly, mentionedby Homer aa one of the places subject to Philoctetes