OCR Output 84 ITALIA. ITALIA. which formed the original population of Greece, asveil as that of Epiros and Macedonia, and of a partat least of Thrace and Asia Minor. The statementsand arguments upon which this inference is basedam more fullj discussed under the article Pr-lasci. It maj here suffice to say that the generalfact is put forward prominently by Dionysius andStrain, and has been generally adopted by modemwriters from Niebuhr downwards. The Pelasgianpopulation of Italy appears in historical times prin­cipally, and in its unmixed form solely, in thesouthern part of the peninsula. Bat it is not im­probable that it had, as was reported by traditionsstill current in the days of the earliest historians,at one timo extended much more widely, and thatthe rclasgian tribes had been gradually pressedtowards the south by the successively advancingwaves if population, which appear under the name ofthe Oscans or Ausonians, and the Sabellians. Atthe time when the first Greek colonies were esta­blishes! in Southern Italy, the whole of the countrysubsequently known as Lucania and Bruttium wasoccupied by a people whom the Greeks called Oeko-tiuans (OlWrpoi), and who are generally repre-senttsl as a Pelasgic race. Indeed we learn that thecolonists themselves continued to call this people,whom thpy had reduced to a state of serfdom, Pe-lasgi. (Steph. B. ». v. Xiot.) We find, however,traces of the tradition that this part of Italy was atone time peopled by a tribe called Siculi, who arerepresented as passing over from thence into theisland to which they gave the name of Sicily, andwhere alone they are found in historical times.[Siciua.] The name of these Siculi is found alsoin connection with the earliest population of Latium[Latum]: both there and in Oenotria they arerepresented by some authorities as a branch of thePelasgic race, while others regard them as a distinctpeople. In the latter case wc have no clue whateverto their origin or national affinities. Next to the Oenotrians come the Messapians orlapv^Uns, who are represented by the Greek legendsand traditions as of Pelasgic or Greek descent: andthere seem reasonable grounds for assuming that theconclu ion was correct, though no value can be at­tached to the mythical legends connected with it bythe logographcra and early Greek historians. Thetribes to whom a Pelasgic origin is thus assignedare, the Messapians and Salentines, in the Iapygianpeninsnla; and the Peucetians and Daunians, in thecountry called by the Romans Apulia. A strongconfirmation of the inference derived in this case fromother authorities is found in the traces still re­maining of the Mcssapian dialect, which appears tohave borne a close affinity to Greek, and to havediffered from it only in much the same degree as theMacedonian and other connate dialects. (Moranuen,lutrr lluluchc Oialekten, pp. 41—98.) It is Car more difficult to trace with any securitythe Pelasgic population of Central Italy, where itapjiears to have been very early blended with othernational elements, and did not anywhere subsist inan unmingled form within the period of historicalrecord. But various as have teen the theories andsugirestions with regard to the population of Etruria,there teems to be good ground for assuming thaton" important element, both of the people and lan­guage, was I'elasgic, and that this element was pre­dominant in the southern part of Etruria, while itwas more feeble, and had be^n comparatively effac.-din the more northern districts. [Etui'kia.] The very name of Tyrrhenians, universally given by theGreeks to the inhabitants of Etruria, appears indis-solubly connected with that of Pelasgians ; and theevidence of language affords some curious and in­teresting facts in corroboration of the tame view.(Donaldson, VarronioHut, 3d edit. pp. 166—170;Lepsius, Tyrrhm. J'tlasger, pp. 40—43.) If the Pelasgic element was thus prevalent inSouthern Etruria, it might naturally be expectedthat its existence would be traceable in Latium also;and accordingly we find abundant evidence that ocaof the component ingredients in the population ofLatium was of Pelasgic extraction, though this didnot subsist within the historical period in a separateform, but was already indissolubly blended with tiiaother elements of the Latin nationality. [Latum]The evidence of the Latin langnage, as pointed oatby Niebuhr, in itself indicates the combination ofa Greek or Pelasgic race with one of a differentorigin, and closely akin to the other nations whichwe find predominant in Central Italy, the Umbriana,Oscans, and Sabines. There seems to be also sufficient proof that a Pe­lasgic or Tyrrhenian population was at an early periodsettled along the coasts of Campania, and was pro­bably at one time conterminous and connected withthat of Lucania. or Oenotria; but the notices of thes*Tyrrhenian settlements are rendered obscure andconfused by the circumstance that the Greeks ap­plied the same name of Tyrrhenians to the Eirur—cans, who subsequently made themselves mastersfor some time of the whole of this country. [Cam- FAIflA.] The notices of any Pelasgic population in the in­terior of Central Italy are so few and vague as to bascarcely worthy of investigation; but the traditionscollected by Dionysius from the early Greek his­torians distinctly represent them as having been atone time settled in Northern Italy, and (speciallypoint to Spina on the Adriatic as a Pelasgic city.(Dionys. i. 17—21; Strab. v. p. 214.) Neverthelessit hardly appears probable that this l'etucic ranformed a permanent part of the population of thawregions. The traditions in question are more fullyinvestigated under the article Pblasoi. Then iasome evidence also, though very vague and in­definite, of the existence of a Pelasgic population mithe coast of the Adriatic, especially on toe shore* ofPicenum. (These notices are collected by Niebuhr,vol. L pp. 49, 50, and are discussed under Pics- MM.) 2. Okca.is. — At a very early period, and cer­tainly before the commencement of historical record,a considerable portion of Central Italy appears i<»have been in the possession of a people who werecalled by the Greeks Opicans, and by. the Latin*Oscans, and whom we are led to identify also withthe Ausonians [Al'aoxm] of the (jreeks, and lbsAuruncans of Koman writers. From Uieni nsderived the name of Opkia or Opica, which ap)«ar>to have been the usual appellation, in the days bKhof Thucydides and Aristotle, for tlie eenlral purtociof the peninsula, or the country north of what wasthen called Italy. (Thuc.vi.4) Arist. PoL viL 10.)All the earliest authorities concur in repres*siUii£the Opicans as the earliest inhabitants of Campania,and they were still in possession of that fertile dis­trict when the Greek colonies were planted there.(Strab. v. p. 242.) We find also statements, whichlinve every character of authenticity, that this ipeople then occupied the mountainous region aft*