OCR Output 19S LOCORITUM. INTERNUM. D'Anville gave up PontSainte-Maxence, and fixedLitanobriga at Cr*il on the Otse, and along this linethe distances of the Table agree pretty well with thereal distances. Walckenaer fixes Litanobriga at Pont-Sainte-MaJt-nce. The solution of this difficulty de-]#nd» on the position of Augustomagus; or if we areon tent with the evidence for fixing Litanobriga atPont Samte-Maxf nee, we cannot place Augusto-uiagus at Senlis. [Ai'crsTOMAors.] [G. L.] LITERNUM (A/T«pKoK, Strab.; Atirtpvov,Ptol.: Eth. Litcrninus: Tor di Patrui), u town onthe sea-coast of Campania, between the nututh ofthe Vulturnus and Cumae.* It was situated at themonth of a river of the same name (Strab. v. p. 243:Liv. xxxii. 29), which assumed a stagnant cha­racter as it approached the sea, so as to form a con­siderable marshy pool or lagoon, called the LiternaPalus (Sil. ItaL vii. 278; Stat. Si/r. iv. 3. 66).and bordered on either side by more extensivemarshes. It is not quite clear whether there was atown there at all before the establishment of theRoman colony: Livy's expression (7. c.) that thatcolony was sent ** ad ostia Literni fluminis,** wouldseem to imply the contrary; and though the nameof Liternum is mentioned in the Second Punic War,it is in a manner that does not clearly prove therewas then a town there. (Liv. xxiii. 35.) But thenotice in Festus (r. Prarfvcturae), who mentionsLiternum, with Capua, Cumae, and other Campa-nian towns, among the Praefecturae, must probablyrefer to a period earlier than the Roman settlement. It was not till the year n. c. 194 that a colonyof Roman citizens was settled at Liternum at thesame time with one at Vulturnutn ; they were l»>thof the class called "coloniae maritimae eivium,** butwere not numerous, only 300 colonists being sent toeach. (Liv. xxxii. 29, xxxiv. 45.) The situationof Liternum also was badly chosen: the marshycharacter of the neighbourhood rendered it unhealthy,while the adjoining tract on the sea-coast was sandyand barren; hence, it never seems to have risen to hea place of any importance, and is chiefly noted fromthe circumstance that it was the place which ScipioAfricanus chose for his retirement, when ho with­drew in disgust from public life, and where heended his days in a kind of voluntary exile. (Liv,xxxviii. 52, 53; Seneca, Ep, 86; Val. Max. v. 3.§ 1; Oroa. iv. 20.) At a later period, however,Augustas settled a fresh colony at Liternum {Lib.Colon, p. 2.15), and the construction by Domitian ofthe road leading along the sea-coast from Sinuessa toCumae must have tended to render it more frequented.But it evidently never rose to be a considerableplace: under the Roman Empire its name is men­tioned only by tiie geographers, and in the Itine­raries in connection with the Via Domittana alreadyn<iticed. (Strab. v. p. 243; Mel ii. 4. § 9; Plin.iii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 6; It'm. Ant p. l'_>2;Tab. Ptut.) We learn, however, that it still existedas a "civitas" as late as the reign of Valentinian II.(Symmaeh. Ep. vi 5); and it was probably destroyedby tlie Vandals in the fifth c*ntury. The villa of Scipio, where he spent the latter * The name is written in many MSS. Lintkb-*USf, and it is difficult, in the absence of inscriptions,to aay which form is really the more correct; butI.iTCttxt'M seems to be supported, on the whole,by the best MSS., as well as by the Greek form ofhe name as found both in Strabo and Ptolemy.Teschucke, ad Mel ii. 4. § 9) years of his life, was still extant in the day? ofiSeneca, who lias left us a detailed description of it,and strongly contrasts the simplicity of its arrangi-ments with the luxury and splendour of those *ihis own time. {Ep. 86.) Pliny also tells us, thatsome of the olive trees and myrtles planted by thehands of Scipio himself were still visible there.(Plin. xvi. 44. s. 85.) It is certain that his tombalso was shown at Liternum in the days of Strab:) andLivy, though it would appear that there was greatdoubt whether he was really buried there. Thewell-known epitaph which, according to ValeriasMaximus, he caused to be engraved on his tomb.—'* Ingrata patria, ne ossa quidem mea babes,"—cwuHcertainly not have been extant in the time of Seneca,who treats the question as one of mere conjecture,though he inclines to the belief that Africanus wasreally buried there, and not in the tomb of theScipios at Rome. (Seneca. L c.; VaL Max. v. 3.§ 1 ; Strnb. /. c.; Liv xxxviii. 56.) The site of Liternum is now marked by a watch -tower called Tor iii Patria, and a miserable villaceof the same name; the adjoining Logo di Patriais unquestionably the Literna Palus, and hencethe river Litem us can be no other than the smalland sluggb>h stream which forms the outlet of thislake to the sea. At the present day the Imqq diPatria communicates with the river Ctaniu* oriMgnO) and is formed by one of the anus of tliatstream. It is not improbable that this waa thecase in ancient times also, for we have no accountof the mouth of the Clanitis, while the Literna* Umentioned only in connection with the town at itsmouth. [Clanius.] The modern name of Patrimmust certainly have been derived from some tradituflof the epitapli of St ipio already noticed, though »tcannot explain the mode in which it arose; b*xt thename may be traced back as far as the eighth cen­tury. There are scarcely any ruins on the site ofLiternum, but the remains of the ancient bridge bywhich the Via Domitiana here crossed the river arestill extant, and the road itself may be traced fromthence the whole way to Cumae. [E. H. B.] LITHRUS (AitJooi), the name of the northernbranch of Mount Paryadrcs in Pont us, which, to­gether with Mount Ophelimus in the north-west ofAmasia, enclosed the extensive and fertile plain ofPhanaroea. (S;rab. xii. p. 556.) Hamilton (Jfr*searches, toL i. p. 349) believes that these twoancient bills answer to the modern Kemer D*gkand Oktap Dagh. [L. &.] LIVIANA, in Gallia Xarbonensis, is placed bythe Table and the Jerusalem ltin. between C«rrsv*o(Co,rcos*<m»e)and Narbo(Aaroowae). It is tbr n*itstation to Carcaso, and xii. from it: the tfatiuo thatfollows Liviana is Usuerva, or Lineraa, or HoaoertsvThe site is uncertain. [G. L. 1 LIX, L1XUS. [Maiketanu]. LIZtZIS. [Azizis.] LOBETA'NI (Awtfnraroi), one of the lewrpeoples in the NE. part of Hispania TanaoonsessawTheir position was SE. of the Cki.tiukki. aid X. efthe Hastktaxi, in the SW. of Arratfon. The ooWcity mentioned as belonging to them was* Lusrn m(Awffnrot'), which IVAnville identifies with AeywM.but Ukert with Albarrnc'm. (PtoL ii. 6. § 60; C<wunp. Seslini, p. ]G9; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1, jp 3JS,464.) [P. S.] LOBETUM. [Lobetaki ] LOCORITUM (Ao*o>rw), a town on the riverMain in Germany, and probably the