OCR Output CHAP. 38. ROMAN HISTORY. 457 when she is unwilling they should avert her impendingpurposes, that in the present conjuncture, when an un­known and terrible enemy from the ocean and utmostverges of the earth, were advancing by rapid marches toattack her, Rome made no extraordinary effort, by ap­pointing a supreme magistrate, or suing for foreign aid.The tribunes, whose rashness had involved Rome in thiswar, presided in every thing, speaking lightly of the war,they made the levies with no more care than was usualupon the most ordinary occasions.' In the mean time, the Gauls, when they were inform­ed that the violators of the law of nations had been rais- •ed to the first dignities of the state, and their embassy-slighted, gave full vent to their passion, to which .thenation is much addicted, immediately pulled up theirensigns, and began their march with all expedition.When during their march, they observed the confusionand terror of the cities through which they passed, asthey ran to their arms, and the peasants flying beforethem, they called out aloud, that they were marching toRome. Wherever they went they made a very formid­able appearance, as their numbers, both in horse and foot,covered a vast tract of ground. The rapidity of theirmarch, the news whereof, fame and couriers from Clusi-um, and other states, had brought to Rome before them,occasioned a terrible consternation there. Troops were levied in haste and without choice, andJed out in great confusion, which with difficulty came upwith the enemy eleven miles from the city, where theriver Allia rising out of the river Crustuminum, and run- .ning in a very deep channel, falls into the Tiber, a littlebelow the Salarian high-way. The whole plain, bothbefore and round them, was covered with enemies, andthe Gauls, of whom a mighty bluster is characteristics),by their barbarous songs and hideous bowlings, made allabout them resound with a horrible noise. CHAP. XXXVIII. A battle. Tfie Romans defeated. .1 HERE the military tribunes took no care, either tomake choice of au advantageous post for their camp, or i