OCR Output TIIRACIA. THRACIA. 1181 manifest that at this early period, when there was•j.irvrir any intercourse between different nations,jr knowledge of foreign tongues, poets who sang inin unintelligible language could not have had more irt.n-ni.-e on the mental development of the peopleJan the twittering of birds." Mller therefore concludes that the Thracians ofV ante-historical era, and those of subsequenti::ies, belonged to distinct races. "When we come i trace more precisely the country of these Thracianad?", we find that the traditions refer to Pieria, theItttrict to the east of the Olympus range, to thevirth of Thessaly, and the soutli of Emathia orUicdonia: in Pieria likewise was Leibethra, whereMutrs are said to have sung tho lament over the•mb of Orpheus: the ancient poets, moreover,litrar* make Pieria, not Thrace, the native place of!i- Mnsrt, which la.it Homer clearly distinguishesmn Pieria, (/£ xiv. 226.) It was not until the*imsnt were pressed in their own territory by theariv Macedonian princes that some of them crossedStrymon into Thrace Proper, where Herodotusni 113) mentions the castles of the Pierians at theune of the expedition of Xerxes. It is, however,I'tite conceivable that in early times, either on ac-m:;: of their close vicinity, or because all the northr« comprehended under one name, the Pierians i.-'it, in Southern Greece, have been called Thra-These Pierians, from the intellectual relations»).;< ii tliey maintained with the Greeks, appear to be. <i'rctan race; which supposition is also confirmed* tli* Greek names of their places, rivers, fountains,til hough it is probable tliat, situated on theTiii* jf the Greek nation, they may have borrowedireely from neighbouring tribes. (See Muller's"toriam, vol L pp. 472, 488, 501.)" After refer-to the accounts of tho Thracians in Southern•rent, Muller adds: "From what has been said, iti>;*"an sufficiently clear that these Pierians or finciana, dwelling about Helicon and Parnassus inWv.rinityof Attica, are chiefly signified when a imcUo origin is ascribed to the mythical bards ofLtUca." Colonel Mure, after referring to tho foregoing»w, which he designates as "plausible," goes on^ fili.iws: "But the cose admits of another, and■*-h»pi more satisfactory explanation. It is certain■U, m the mythical geography, a tract of countrya the frontiers of Uoeotia and Phocis, comprchend-i: Mount Parnassus aitd Helicon, bore the name ofarte*. [See the etymology, ante.] In this re-'ii the popular mythology also lays the scene ofc"r*l of the most celebrated adventures, the heroesf which are called Thracians." The author thenf'pMS this explanation to the stories of Tereus androroe, and of Lyeurgus, '* king of Thrace;" andweed* thus: ** Pausanias makes the 4 Thracian 1ird Thamyris virtually a Phocian. Ho assignsim fa- m ther a nymph of Pa mass us calledJTiope. His father, Philammon, is described as aof the same region, son of Apollo, by thernph Chione, and brother of Autolycus, its cele-rited robber chieftain. The divine grandsire isrrwualy here bat a figure of his own sacred region;•* grandmother Chione, as her name bears, of its»». Others call the latter heroine Keaconoe*.as names of these heroines are all so many varied►■I** of typifying the same 'snow-white' Par-s»ua> Thia view of the 'Thracian' character of•ft* sages iM-comes the more plausilde, if it bo re-*mbered that the region of Central Greece, in which the Hellenic Thrace was situated, is that from whichfirst or chiefly, the seeds of elementary culture werepropagated throughout the nation. Here traditionplaces the first introduction of the alphabet. Here werealso the principal seats of Apollo and the Muses. Inthe heart of the same region was situated the MinyeanOrchomenos, the temple of the Graces, rivallingThebes herself in the splendour of her princes andzeal for the promotion of art. Among the earlymasters of poetry or music, not vulgarly styled Thra­cians, the most illustrious, Amphion and Linus, areBoeotians. Nor was this region of Central Greeceless favoured in respect of its religious institutions.It was not only the favourite seat of Apollo, theMuses, and the Graces, but the native country of theDionysiac rites, seal for the propagation of which isa characteristic of the Thracian sages." {Hist ofLang, and Lit of Ant. Greece, i. pp. 150—153;cf. Niebuhr, Lett on Ethnog. and Gtog. L p. 287.) In thus entirely disconnecting these early 11 Thru-cians," from those of later times, we have the autho­rity of Thucydides (ii. 29), who, in speaking of Teres,the father of Sitalces, remarks : "This Teres hadno connection whatever with Tereus, who marriedProcne, daughter of Pandion of Athens; they didnot even belong to the same Thrace. Tereus dweltat Daulia, a city of the country now called Phocis,and which was then occupied by the Thracians."And he proceeds to show that it was not likely thatPandion would form an alliance with any one wholived so far from Athens as tho country of theOdrysae.* The consideration of the ethnological relations ofthe early Thracians hardly falls within the scope ofthis article; but since identity of name has oftencaused them to be confounded with the historical in-habitants of Thrace, it may be desirable briefly todiscuss the subject in this place. The view which seems to the present writer to bebest supported by the evidence, and to explain mostsatisfactorily the ancient authors, is that which re­gards the mythical Thracians as members of thewidely extended race to which the name of Pelasgiansis usually given. It is clear from Homer that a closeconnection existed between the people of SouthernThrace and the Trojans, who were probably Pelasgians,and who are at the same time represented by him asagreeing, in language, religion, and other importantrespects, with the Greeks. Again, Homer mentionsamong the auxiliaries of Priam, the Caucones, whoare named along with the Pelasgians (/£ x. 429),and the Cicones (//. ii. 846). These two namesbear so close a resemblance to each other as to sug­gest the probability of the cognate origin of thetribes so designated. Now the Cicones were un­doubtedly Thracians (Odys. ix. 39, seqq.); while asto the Caucones, Strabo (xil p. 542) informs us thatthey occupied part of the coast of Uithynia,and wereregarded by some as Scythians, by others as Mace­donians, by others again as Pelasgians. It will beremembered that Caucones are mentioned by him(vii. p. 321) among the earliest inhabitants of Pe­loponnesus. Another noticeable fact is, that in thepassage of Strabo already quoted (ix. p. 401), he re­presents the Thracians and Pelasgians as acting in * Yet subsequent prose writers, to say nothing ofpoets, fall into the error of making Tereus an inha­bitant of Thrace Proper ; and Pliny (iv. 18) evenmentions the castle there ia which the crime ofTereus was perpetrated I