OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 145 wished to prolong their dominion, they persuaded theaged princess to nominate for her successor Michael VI.Michael vi Tne surname of Stratioticus declares his mili-Stratio- taiy profession; but the crazy and decrepit ve-A.D'.io56, teran could only see with the eyes, and exe-ueust 'cute with the hands, of his ministers. Whilsthe ascended the throne, Theodora sunk into the grave;the last of the Macedonian or Basilian dynasty. I havehastily reviewed, and gladly dismiss, this shameful anddestructive period of Jwenty-eight years, in which theGreeks, degraded below the common level of servitude,were transferred like a herd of cattle by the choice orcaprice of two impotent females.Isaac i. From this night of slavery, a ray of freedom,A?D?io57',or at least of spirit, begins to emerge; theAugust si. Greeks either preserved or revived the use ofsurnames, which perpetuate the fame of hereditary vir­tue; and we now discern the rise, succession, and al­liance, of the last dynasties of Constantinople and Tre-bizond. The Comneni, who upheld for awhile the fateof the sinking empire, assumed the honour of a Romanorigin: but the family had been long since transportedfrom Italy to Asia. Their patrimonial estate was situatein the district of Castamona, in the neighbourhood ofthe Euxine; and one of their chiefs, who had alreadyentered the paths of ambition, revisited with affection,perhaps with regret, the modest though honourabledwelling of his fathers. The first of their line was theillustrious Manuel, who, in the reign of the secondBasil, contributed by war and treaty to appease thetroubles of the east: he left, in a tender age, two sons,Isaac and John, whom, with the consciousness of desert,he bequeathed to the gratitude and favour, of his so­vereign. The noble youths were carefully trained inthe learning of the monastery, the arts of the palace,and the exercises of the camp; and from the domesticservice of the guards, they were rapidly promoted to the VOL. VI. L