OCR Output 394 NABATAEI. NACOLEIA. habited the land of Edom, commonly known asIdumaea, And intimate that there was no connectionwhatever between the Idumaeans of Petra in theAugustine period, and the children of Esan ; theywere, in fact, Nabataeans, and therefore, accordingto Joseph us and other ancient authorities, IshmaeliteArabs. How or when they had dispossessed theEdornitcs does not appear in history, nor what hudbecome of the remnant of the Edomiles. (Robinson,Bib. lies. vol. ii. pp. 55S, 559.) Hut while JudasMaecabaeus was on terms of friendship with theNabataei, he was carrying on a war of exterminationagainst the Edomites. (Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 1;1 JIaccab. v. 3.) It is worthy of remark, however,that the lduniaeans with whom Hyrcaims was inalliance, over whom Aretas reigned, and from whomHerod was sprung-, are expressly said to be Naba-taeans (Ant. xiv. 2. § 3, 3. §§ 3,4), whose alli­ance was refused by I'ompey, on account of theirinaptitude for war. And this identity is furtherproved by Strabo, who writes that the Idumaeans andthe lake (Asphaltides) occupy the extreme west (?)corner of Judaea: —u These Idumaeans arc Na-bataeans ; but being expelled thence in a sedition,they withdrew to the Jews and embraced their cus­toms." (xvi. p. 760.) This recognition of theNabataean origin of the later Idumaeans, provesthat the name is to be regarded as a geographical,rather than as a genealogical designation. IMiny(vi. 32) throws little light upon the subject,merely making the Nalataei contiguous to theScenitc Arabs, with whom they were more probablyidentical, and stating that the ancients had placedthe Thimanaci next to them (i. e. on the E.); inthe place of whom be names several other tribes, asthe Tavcni, Suelleni, Arraccni, &c. (Hid.) But thestatement of Joseph uh that the Nabataei extendedfrom the Euphrates to the Red Sea, is confirmed bythe fact that the name is still to be found in boththose regions. Thus the name Rabat is applied toa marshy district, described by Gulius as partof the " jtalustria Chaldacae," between Wasith andBasra, which was called ** paludes Nabathaeorum,"(Golius, cited by Forster, (jeog. of Arabia, vol. i.p. 214 n.*), while at the other extremity the nameRabat is given to a town two days beyond (i. e.south) of Kt-lfaura in the Iledjaz.bj an Arabiangeographer (Siiiouti, cited by CJuatreniere, Memoirtgur les Rabattens, p. 3*), near where Jebel Rdbit fsmarked in modem majis. The existence of this namein this locality is regarded by M. Quairemcre as anadditioualargument for the identity of ElJIauravc'xihLeuceCome, proving that the country of the Nabataeidid actuallyextend so far south. The fact of the originof the Nabataeans from Ncbaioth the son of Ishmael,resting as it does on tltc respectable authority ofJoseph us, followed as he is by S.Jerome (Qnaest.Hthr. in Gene*, torn. ii. p. 530), and all subsequentwriters in the western world, has been called inquestion by M. Qtiatremere in the Me'moire abovereferred to; who maintains that they are in nosense Ishmaelites, nor connected by race with anyof the Arab families, but were Aramaeans, andidentical with the Chaldaeans. He cites a host ofancient and most respectable native Arabic authorsin proof of this theory ; according to whose state­ments the name Nabats or Nabataeans designatedthe primitive and indigenous population of Chaldaeaand the neighbouring provinces, probably those whomEusebius designates Babylonians in contradistinctionfrom tin Chaldaeans. They occupied the whole of that country afterwards called Irak-Arab, in themost extended sense of that name, even carnpre-hending several provinces beyond the Tigris; aod itis worthy of remark, that Uasoudi mentions a rem­nant of the Babylonians and Chaldaeans existing inhis day in the very place which is designated themarshes of the Kahataeans, i. c. in the villages situ­ated in the swampy ground between Wasith andBasra. (lb. p. 66.) Other authors merit km Xaha-taeans near Juthrib or Medina, which would acmamfor the Jebel Ribdt in that vicinity; and antxhersection of them in Bahrein, on the eastern cuevt i/the peninsula, who had become Arabs, aa the Arabinhabitants of the province of Oman are said to havebecome Nabataeans. (lb. p. SO ) Thia *ettlem**nt *4Nabatscans in the Persian Gulj'timr be alluded lit byStrabo, who relates that the Chaldaeans, baniancdfrom their country, settled themselves in the town si(icrrha, on the coast of Arabia (xvi p. 766);which fact would account for the commercial inter­course between the merchants of Gerrha and thoseof Petra above referred to; the Nabataei of PcVabeing a branch of some family also from Babyluiand perhaps driven from their country by tbasame political revolution that dispossessed the re­fugees of Gerrha. However this may have been,it must be admitted that the very ingenious andforcible arguments of M. (juatretuere leave littledoubt that this remarkable jeople, which apeear*so suddenly and comparatively late on the stage ofArabian history, to disappear as suddenly after abrief and brilliant career of mercantile activity andsuccess, were not natives of the soil, but a bene Uanother race and family into which they were sub­sequently merged, again to rea] pear in the annab Utheir own original seats. (lb. pp. 88—9u.) ReUi-dgives a different account of the identity of the nan**in the two quarters. (Palaestina, p. 94.) [G- W.]NABATHKAE. [Ahcai.tes.]NABIA'NI (Naffuwof), a tribe of the Caucasuswhom Strabo (xi. p. 506) couples with the Panxani(Uay^avot), about the Talus Maeotis. [E. B. J.] NABLIS, a river of Germany, flowing int*» theDanube from the north, and probably identical withthe Naxib in Bavaria. (Venat. Fort. vi. 11; iJcocr.Rav. iv. 26, who calls it Nabus or Navua.) f L. &.]NABKISSA or NKBKIS6A (Noa>r*a, Strafe, m.pp. 140, 143; Ttol. ii. 4. §12; Nebrieea, in eaaeditt. of Tlin. iii. 1. s. 3, but Sillig reads NaUri***;Nebrissa, Sit. iii. 393), surnamed Veneria, a town *ithe Turdetaui in Hispania Baetica, situated upon theaestuary of the river Baeti*. According to fubes(L c.) it was celebrated for the worship of I)ior.y»«h,Now fabrija. (Florez, E*p. Soar. xii. p. 60.) KABItl'AI, a river of Uedro>ia, mentioned by Pli&r(vi. 23. s. 20). It must have been situated near themouth of the Arabia, between this river and the lnda*;but its exact position cannot be determined. It atnot mentioned in the voTage of Nearcbus. [V.1 NACMl'SH. [MArHKTAKIA.] NACOLEIA, NACO'LIA (NoaJAeia, Ne*eAJ«.\a town in 1'hrygia Kpictetus, betwevn Darrtarwaaand Cotyaeum, on the upper course of the nearThymbres. (Strab. xii. p. 576; Steph. B- a. r.:Ptol. v. 2. § 22.) In the earlier timea, the lesaadoes not teem to have been a place of much c*ar-sequence, but later writers often mention it. It haaacquired some celebrity frutn the tart that ihr rro-pemr Valens there defeated the nsuqcr Prucof^ua.(Amm. Marc, xxvii. 27; com p. Zosim. iv. 6; Secaaft.Hist. Ecd. ir. 5 \ Soxopi. ir. 8.) 1b the rc%n W