OCR Output 838 WARS OF THE JEWS. ^ • ' Book I. of madness, and accused himself, and said, " This Tero endea-" voured to persuade me also to cut thy throat with my ra-" zor, when I trimmed thee, and promised that Alexander" should give me large presents for so doing." When Herodheard this, he examined Tero, with his son and the barber, bythe torture; but as the others denied the accusation, and hesaid nothing farther, Herod gave order that Tero should beracked more severely; but his son, out of pity to his father,promised to discover the whole to the king, if he would grant[that his father should be no longer tortured]; when he hadagreed to this, he said, That " his father, at the persuasion of" Alexander, had an intention to kill him." Now some saidthis was forged, in order to free his father from his torments,and some said it was true. 6. And now Herod accused the captains, and Tero, in an as­sembly of the people, and brought the people together in a bodyagainst them ; and accordingly there were they put to death, to­gether with [Trypho] the barber; they were killed by the pie­ces of wood, and the stones, that were thrown at them. He alsosent his sons to Sebaste, a city not far from Caesarea, and order­ed them to be there strangled: and as what he had ordered wasexecuted immediately, so he commanded that their dead bodiesshould be brought to the fortress Alexandrium, to be buriedwith Alexander, their grandfather by the mother's side. Andthis was the end of Alexander and Aristobulus. CHAP. XXVIII. How dntipater is hated of all men ; and iow the king espousesthe sons of those that had been slain to his kindred: 'But thatAntipater made him change them Jor other women. Of He­rod's marriages, and children. § 1. TJUT an intolerable hatred fell upon Antipater from the-D nation, though he had now an indisputable title to thesuccession; because they all knew that he'was the person whocontrived all the calumnies against his brethren. However, hefeegan to be in a terrible fear, as he saw the posterity of thosethat had been slain growing up; for Alexander had two sons byGlaphyra,Tigranesand Alexander; and Aristobulus had Herod,-gnd Agrippa, and Aristobulus, his sons, with Herodias and Ma-riamne, his daughters, and all by Bernice, Salome's daughter; astor Glaphyra, Herod, as soon as he had killed Alexander, senther back, together with her portion, to Cappadocia. He marriedBernice, Aristobulus's daughter^ to Antipater's uncle by his mo­ther, and it was Antipater, who, in order to reconcile her to him,' ' * when