OCR Output 404 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. the soTdiers were not slaves, but freemen and fellow-citizens, who ought at least, during the winter, to bepermitted to return to their houses and families, in or足der that once in the year, they might see their fathers,wives, and children, enjoy their liberty, and give theirvoice in the election of magistrates.'Whilst the tribunes were exclaiming in this manner,they found an antagonist in Appius Claudius, who hadbeen left by his colleagues, for the purpose of opposingthe seditious attempts of the tribunes, being highly qua足lified for the task: for from his youth he had beeo.trained to contend with the Plebeians, and had advised,some years before this, as we had occasion to observe, toblunt the edge of tribunitian power, by opposing it toitself, CHAP. HI. Appius enters the lists with the Tribunes. .T\PPIUS, who was remarkable for quickness of con-ception, which too was greatly improve^ by his prac-tice, spoke to the following efi'ect: ' If ever, gentlemen,.there was a doubt, whether it was to promote yourinterest, or their own, that your tribunes are still onthe watch to raise seditions in the state, I am certainthis year must have cleared up every difficulty on thatscore. And whilst I rejoice, that there is now an endof the wild tedious goose-chase they have led you, Icongratulate you, and the republic on your account,that your prosperity hath, in a very peculiar manner,contributed to open your eyes. Is it not .evident to allthe world, that your tribunes were never so sensiblytouched with any injuries you ever received, if indeedyou ever received any, as with the generosity of thesenate to the people, in appointing them pay, whilstemployed in the service of the republic? What else,do you imagine, could have alarmed them at that time,orwhat is it they would wish to disturb now, but allunion between the two. orders of the state, as beingentirely repugnant to their seditious views? ftike ras足cally quack doctor*, by Hercules, they hatch employ-aent for themselves. "Their desire was to see some足