OCR Output 84 LJW. marched to Caudium. The heralds, who went before,on coming to the gate, ordered the sureties of the peaceto be stripped of their clothes, and their hands to betied behind their backs. As the apparitor, out of re­spect to his dignity, was binding Postumius in a loosemanner, ' Nay,' said he, ' draw the cord tight that thesurrender may be regularly performed.' Then, whenthey came into the assembly of the Samnites, and tothe tribunal of Pontius, Aulus Cornelius Arvina, aherald, pronounced these words : ' Forasmuch as thesemen here present, without orders from the Roman peo­ple, the Quirites, entered into surety that a treatyshould be made, whereby they have rendered them­selves criminal; now, in order that the Roman peoplemay be freed from the crime of impiety, I here sur­render these men into your hands.' On the heraldsaying thus, Postumius gave him a stroke on the thighwith his knee, as forcibly as he could, and said with aloud voice, that ' he was now a citizen of Samnium,the other a Roman ambassador; that the herald hadbeen by him violently ill treated, contrary to the lawof nations ; and that the people he represented wouldtherefore have the more justice on their side in thewar which they were about to wage.' 11. Pontius then said, ' Neither will I accept such asurrender, nor will the Samnites deem it valid. Spu-rius Postumius, if you believe that there are gods,why do you not undo all that has been done, or fulfilyour agreement? The Samnite nation is intitled,either to all the men whom it had in its power, or, in­stead of them, to a peace. But why do I make a de­mand on yon, who, with as much regard to faith asyou are able to show, return yourself a prisoner intothe hands of the conqueror? I make the demand onthe Roman people. If they are dissatisfied with theconvention made at the Caudine forks, let them re­place the legions within the defile where they werepent up. Let there be no deception on either side. Letall that has been done pass as nothing. Let them re­ceive again the arms which they surrendered by the