OCR Output B. iV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 379 except such as were privy to his design. For there residedin the place a body of Argillians, who are an Andrian co­lony, and others who acted in combination with him, someof them at the instigation of Perdiccas, and others at thatof the Chalcideans: But in a more particular manner theArgillians, who had a place of residence very near it, whofarther had ever been suspected by the Athenians, and werereally intent on the ruin of the place when now a fair op­portunity was within their reach, and Brasidas at hand (wholong before had been tampering with these inhabitants offoreign mixture) in order to have the city betrayed to him.The Argyllians at this juncture received him into their owncity, and revolting from the Athenians led his army forwardsthat very night to the bridge laid over the Strymon. Thecity is seated at some distance from this pass; and it wasnot then defended by a fort as it is now, but was only thestation of a small party of guards. Brasidas therefore easilyforced the guard, being favoured in some degree by treachery,not a little also by the season and his own unexpected ap­proach. He then passed the bridge, and was immediatelymaster of all the effects of those Amphipolitans who residein all the tract without the walls. Thjs passage was sosudden, that those within the city had no notice of it; andas to those without, many of them being seized, and othersflying for preservation within the wall, the Amphipolitanswere thrown into vast confusion, increased by their mutualsuspicions of one another. And it is said, that if Brasidas,instead of permitting his troops to disperse for plunder, hadadvanced directly against the city, it must unavoidably havefallen into his hands. But he, on the contrary, having or­dered them to halt, employed himself in the ravage of whatlay without; and, finding nothing effectuated in his favourby accomplices within, he for the present desisted. Butthose his accomplices were overpowered in number by theopposite party, who prevented their opening the gates im­mediately to Brasidas; and, acting in concert with Eucles.