OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIBE. 271 Opis *. The distance of the last-mentioned city from CHap.the Roman camp was not very considerable; and XIX,Julian must soon have renounced the vain and im­practicable attempt of forcing upwards a great fleetagainst the stream of a rapid river, which in severalplaces was embarrassed by natural or artificial cata­racts. The power of sails or oars was insufficient;it became necessary to tow the ships against the cur­rent of the river; the strength of twenty thousandsoldiers was exhausted in this tedious and servilelabour; and if the Romans continued to march alongthe banks of the Tigris, they could only expect toreturn home without achieving any enterprise worthyof the genius or fortune of their leader. If, on thecontrary, it was advisable to advance into the inlandcountry, the destruction of the fleet and magazineswas the only measure which could save that valuableprize from the hands of the numerous and active troopswhich might suddenly be poured from the gates ofCtesiphon. Had the arms of Julian been victorious,we should now admire the conduct, as well as thecourage, of a hero, who, by depriving his soldiers ofthe hopes of a retreat, left them only the alternativeof death or conquest. The cumbersome train of artillery and waggons, and marcheswhich retards the operations of a modern army, were j^J?'in a great measure unknown in the camps of theRomans t. Yet, in every age, the subsistence of sixtythousand men must have been one of the most import­ant cares of a prudent general; and that subsistencecould only be drawn from his own or from the enemy'scountry. Had it been possible for Julian to main­tain a bridge of communication on the Tigris, and to * Consult Herodotus (1. i. c. 194.), Strabo (l . xvi. p. 1074.), and Tavernier(p. i. J. ii. p. 152.). .f See the judicious reflections of the Author of the Essai sur ]a Tactique, torn.ii. p. 287— 353. and the learned remarks of M. Guichardt, Nouveaux MemoiresMilitaires, torn. i. p. 351—382. on the baggage and subsistence of the Rornanarmies.