OCR Output wfl THE DEGLIN'E AND FALL ard of a young and liberal prince, who had taken up arms to re-. venge his father's death and the oppression of the military order 47.Defeat and Whilst a conspiracy of women and eunuchs was concerted withcfinus!fMa* prudence, and conducted with rapid vigour," Macrirrus, who by adecisive motion might have crushed his infant enemy, floated be­tween the opposite extremes of terror and security, which alike fixedhim inactive at Antioch. A spirit of rebellion diffused itself throughall the camps and garrisons of Syria, successive detachments mur­dered their officers4*, and joined the party of the rebels; arid thetardy restitution of military pay and privileges was imputed to theacknowledged weakness of Macrinus. At length he marched outof Antioch, to meet the increasing and zealous army of the youngpretender. His own troops seemed to take the field with faintnesaA. D. 218. andrehictance; but in the heat of the battle *9, the Praetorian guards,^hjune. almost by an involuntary impuise, asserted the superiority of theirvalour and discipline. The rebel ranks were broken; when themother and grandmother of the Syrian prince, who according to theireastern custom had attended the army, threw themselves from thecovered chariots, and, by exciting the compassion of the soldiers, en­deavoured to animate their drooping courage. Antoninus himsclf>who in the rest of his life never acted like a man, in this importantcrisis of his fate approved himself a hero, mounted his horse, andat the head of his rallied troops charged sword in hand among thethickest of the enemy; whilst the eunuch Gannys, whose occupationshad been confined to female cares and the soft luxury of Asia,displayed the talents of an able and experienced general. Thebattle still raged with doubtful violence, and Macrinus might haveobtained the victory, had he not betrayed his own cause by a shame­ful and precipitate flight. His cowardice served only to protracthis life a few days, and to stamp deserved ignominy on his mis­fortunes. It is scarcely necessary to add, that his son Biadume- 3 nianus.