OCR Output 60 JtNTlQUrriES OF TKK JEWS. Book X. changed his name to Jehoiakim, and laid a tribute upon the landof a hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold, and the sumof money Jehoiakim paid by way of tribute: but Neco carriedaway Jehoahaz into Egypt, where he died when he had reignedthree months and ten days. Now Jehoiakim's mother was cal­led Zebudah, of the city Rumah. He was of a wicked dispo­sition, and ready to do mischief: nor was he either religioustowards God, or good natured towards men. CHAP. VI. How Nebuchadnezzar, when he had conquered the king of Egypt,'made an expedition against the Jews, and slew Jehoiakim, andmade Jehoiachin his son king. § I. Now in the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim, onewhose name was Nebuchadnezzar, took the government overthe Babylonians, who at the same time went up with a greatarmy to the city Carchemish, which was at Euphrates, upon a.resolution he had taken to fight with Neco king of Egypt, un­der whom all Syria then was. And when Neco understoodthe intention of the king of Babylon, and that this expedition was.made against him, he did not despise his attempt, but made hastewith a great band of men to Euphrates to defend himself fromNebuchadnezzar; and when they had joined battle, he was beat­en, and lost many ten thousands [of his soldiers] in the battle.So the king of Babylon passed over Euphrates, and took all Sy­ria, as far as Pelusium, excepting Judea. But when Nebuchad­nezzar had already reigned four years, which was the eighth ofJehoiakim's government over the Hebrews, the king of Babylonmade an expedition with mighty forces against the Jews, and re­quired tribute of Jehoiakim, and threatened on his refusal to*make war against him. He was affrighted at his threatening,and bought Iris peace with money, and brought the tribute hewas ordered to bring for three years. 2. But on the third year, upon hearing that the king of theBabylonians made an expedition against the Egyptians, he didnot pay his tribute, yet was he disappointed of his hope, for theEgyptians durst not fight at this time. And indeed the prophetJeremiah foretold every day, how vainly they relied on theirhopes from Egypt, and how the city would be overthrown bvthe king of Babylon, and Jehoiakim the king would be subdued,by him. But what he thus spake proved to be of no advantao-eto them, because there were none that should escape; for both themultitude, and the rulers, when they heard him, had no concernabout what they heard; but being displeased at what was said,