OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 309 In the mean time, the armament of the Athenians,having sailed round from Corycus to Arginum, fallsin with three long vessels of the Chians, and no soonerhad descried than they, gave them chace. And now aviolent storm ariseth, and the vessels of the Chians withgreat difficulty escape into harbour: But, of the Athe­nian squadron, three, which had molt briskly followedthe chace, are disabled and drive ashore at the city ofthe Chians: The crews of them were partly made pri­soners, and partly put to the sword. The rest of thefleet got into a safe harbour, which is known by thename of Phcenicus, under the Mimas. From hencethey afterwards took their course to Ltsbos, and got allin readiness to raise fortifications. From Peloponnesus, the same winter, Hippocratesthe Lacedæmonian, putting out to sea, with ten sail ofThurians commanded by Doricus, the son of Diagoras,and two collegues, with one ship of Laconia and one ofSyracuse, arriveth at Cnidus. This place was now inrevolt from Tissaphernes. Those at Miletus were nosooner advised of the arrival of this squadron, than thaysent them orders, with one moiety of their ships to keepguard upon Cnidus, and with the other to post them­selves at the Triopium, in order to take under theirconvoy the trading-vessels which were in their coursefrom Egypt. The Triopium is a point in the territoryof Cnidus, jutting out into the sea, and a temple ofApollo. But the Athenians, informed of their designs,and standing away from Samos, take six of the shipswhich were stationed at the Triopium: The crews, in­deed, quit their ships, and reach the shore. This be­ing done, the victors sailed directly to Cnidus; and,making an assault upon that city which was quite un­fortified, had very nearly taken it, On the next daythey renewed the assault. Yet, as the inhabitants hadtaken care to make it more secure by favour of thenight, and the men escaped from the vessels taken atTriopium had thrown themselves into the place, they X 3 did