OCR Output 42 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. acceptable to those that received them, onaccount of their rarity. Those who were sentproceeded at certain intervals of space asun­der, that by following thick one after another,they might appear to be the more numerous,that Esau might remit of his anger on ac­count of these presents, if he were still unap-peased. Instructions were also given to thosethat were sent, to speak submissively to him.When Jacob had made these appointments,and night came on, he began to move withhis company: and as they were gone over acertain river, called Jabboc, Jacob was leftbehind; and meeting with an angel, hewrestled with him, the angel beginning thestruggle; but he prevailed over the angel,who used a voice, and spake to him in words,exhorting him to be pleased with what hadhappened to him, and not to suppose that hisvictory was a trifling one, but that he hadovercome a divine angel, and to esteem thevictory as a sign of great blessings that shouldcome to him, and that his offspring shouldnever fail, and that no man should be too hardfor his power. He also commanded him tobe called Israel,* which in the Hebrewtongue signifies one that struggled with thedivine angel. These promises were made atthe prayer of Jacob; for when he perceivedhim to be the angel of God, he desired hewould signify to him what should befal himhereafter, and when the angel had said whatis before related, he disappeared. Jacob waspleased with these things, and named the Slace Phanuel, which signifies the face of God.iut when he felt pain by this struggling uponhis broad sinews, he abstained from eatingthat sinew himself afterward, and for his sakeit is still not eaten by us.t When Jacob understood that his brotherwas approaching, he ordered his wives to gobefore, each by herself, with the handmaids,that they might see the actions of the men asthey were fighting, if Esau were so disposed.He then went and bowed down to his brother Esau, who had no evil design upon him, butsaluted him,J and asked him about thecompany of the children, and of the women;and desired, when he had understood all hewanted to know about them, that he wouldgo along with him to their father; but Jacobpretending that the cattle were weary, Esaureturned to Seir, for there was his place ofhabitation, which he had named roughness,from his own hairy roughness. CHAP. XXI. OF THE VIOLATION OF DINa's CHA3TIT* AFTER this interview, Jacob came to theplace, till this day called Succoth, orTents, whence he went to Shechem, a cityof the Canaanites. Now as the Shechemiteswere keeping a festival, Dina, who was theonly daughter of Jacob, went into the city, tosee the women of that country; but whenShechem, the son of Hamor the king, sawher, he defiled her by violence; and beinggreatly in love with her, he desired his fatherto procure the damsel for him in marriage.To this request Hamor acceded, and cameto Jacob, desiring permission that his sonShechem might according to law, marryDina; but Jacob, not knowing how to denythe desire of one of such great dignity, andyet not thinking it lawful to marry his daugh­ter to a stranger, intreated leave to have aprevious consultation. So the king wentaway, in hopes that Jacob would approve ofthis marriage; but Jacob informed his sons ofthe defilement of their sister, and of the ad­dress of Hamor, and desired them to give himtheir advice, what they should do. Upon thisthe greatest part said nothing, not knowingwhat advice to give; but Simeon and Levi,the brethren of the damsel, by the samemother, agreed between themselves upon theaction following: it being now the time of afestival, when the Shechemites were em­ so quick, by the great numbers which they have, that theyare obliged to remove them too often, which is very de­structive to their flocks, on account of the young ones,which have not strength enough to follow." This cir­cumstance shews the energy of Jacob's apology to Esau fornot attending him. Harmer's Observations, i. 126. B. * Perhaps this may be the proper meaning of the wordIsrael by the present and the old Jerusalem analogy of theHebrew tongue. But it is certain that the Hellenists of the first century, in Egypt and elsewhere, interpretedIs-ra-el, to be a man seeing God. t Gen. xxxii. 32. | When Jacob and Esau met they saluted each other.Esau ran to meet Jacob, embraced him, fell on his neck, andkissed him, Gen. xxxiii. 4. Such persons as are intimatelyacquainted, or of equal age and dignity, mutually kiss thehand, the head, or the shoulder of each other. Shaw'sTrav. p. 237. B.