OCR Output 958 SELINUS. SELIXUS. wiUIs; but the outlines of two Urge edifices, builtof squared stones and in a massive style, are dis­tinctly traceable outside the walls, near the NE. and NW. angles of the city, though we bin no cat %their nature or purpose. But much the most remarkable of the nia i£ PLAM OF SELINl'S. A (' D. Temples within the city. H. Small temple or actlienla in the city. E F CI. Great templea without the city. Selinus are those of three temples on the hill to theE., which do not appear to have been included inthe city, hut, as was often the case, were built on thisneighbouring eminence, so as to front the city itself..All these temples are considerably larger than anyof the three above described; and the most northerlyof them is one of the largest of which we have anyremains. It had 8 columns in front and 17 in thesides, anil was of the kind called pseudo-dipteral.Its length was 359 feet, and its breadth 102,so thatit was actually longer than the great temple of Ju­piter Olympius at Agrigentnm, though not equalto it in breadth. From the columns being only par­tially tinted, as well as from other signs, it is clearthat it never was completed; but all the more im­portant parts of the structure were finished, and itmu«-t have certainly been one of the most imposingfabrics in antiquity. Only three of the columns arenow standing, and these imperfect; hut the wholearea is tilled up with a heap of fallen masses, por­tions of columns, capitals, &c, and other huge archi­tectural fragments,all of the most massive character,and forming, as observed by Swinburne, " one of themost gigantic and sublime ruins imaginable," Thetwo other temples are ilso prostrate, but the ruinshave fallen with such regularity that the portions ofalmost every column lie on the ground as they havefallen; and it is not only easy to restore the plan anddesign of the two edifices, but it appears as if theycould be rebuilt with little difficulty. These tem­ples, though greatly inferior to their gigantic neigh­bour, were still larger than that at Segesta, and evenexceed the great temple of Neptune at Paestum; sothat the three, when standing, must have presenteda spectacle unrivalled in antiquity. All these build­ings may be safely refesred to a period anterior to H If. Remains of edifices on tint* the iM. Hirer Selinus, now the V . the Carthaginian conquest (b.c. 409),three temples last described appear to haveof them of later date than those within thethe city. This is proved, among other orctaby the scnlptured metopes, several of waibeen dUcovered and extricated from amoetg tfragments. Of these sculptures, those wilonged to the temples within the walls,peculiar and archaic style of art, and arerecognised as among the earliest extant sseof Greek sculpture, (They are figured By 1JJeiihnaler, pi. 4, 5, as well aa in many otherand casts of them are in the British Mx-eum.)on the contrary, which have been found aa*ruins of the temple marked E. on theare of a later and more advanced -*.-..-.retaining considerable remains of theearliest art. Besides the interest attached 1Selinuntine metopes from their important besthe history of Greek sculpture, the mnaise <temples are of value as affording the dmqui vocal testimony to the use of psanlinr. ■the architectural decoration of the tenipiea.applied to the sculptures with which tasadorned. A very full ai>d detailed amortruins at Selinus is given in the Duke of SFalco's Antichita Sicilitme, tdL it, froro wfcipreceding plan is derived. A more c*n*r*i4tion of them will be found in Swinburne's Ivol. ii. pp. 242—245; Smyth's £*niy. pp.221; and other works on Sicily isi The coins of Selinus areThe earliest, as already mentioned,figure of a parsley-leaf on thesomewhat later date (including thebelow) represent a figure sacrificinc