OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 393 natus, forty-six years after the flight of Mahomet C"£P'from Mecca, his disciples appeared in arms under- the walls of Constantinople. They were animated S^.by a genuine or fictitious saying of the Prophet, that ^.d. 668—to the first army which besieged the city of theCaesars, their sins were forgiven; the long series ofRoman triumphs would be meritoriously transferredto the conquerors of new Rome; and the wealth ofnations was deposited in this well-chosen seat ofroyalty and commerce. No sooner had the caliphMoawiyah suppressed his rivals and established histhrone, than he aspired to expiate the guilt of civilblood by the success and glory of his holy expedi­tion*; his preparations by sea and land were ade­quate to the importance of the object; his standardwas intrusted to Sophian, a veteran warrior, but thetroops were encouraged by the example and presenceof Yezid, the son and presumptive heir of the com­mander of the faithful. The Greeks had little tohope, nor had their enemies any reasons of fear,from the courage and vigilance of the reigning em­peror, who disgraced the name of Constantine, andimitated only the inglorious years of Heraclius.Without delay or opposition, the naval forces of theSaracens passed through the unguarded channel ofthe Hellespont; which, even now, under the feebleand disorderly government of the Turks, is main­tained as the natural bulwark of the capital. TheArabian fleet cast anchor, and the troops were dis­embarked, near the palace of Hebdomon, seven milesfrom the city. During many days, from the dawn • For this first siege of Constantinople, see Nicephorus (Breviar. p. 21, 22) jTheophanes (Chronograph, p. IJ94); Cedrenus (Compend. p. 437); Zonaras(Hist. tom. ii. lxiv. p. 89); Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 56", 57); Abulfeda(Anna!. Moslem, p. 107, 108. vers. Reiske); D'Herbelot (BiblioL Orient. Con­stantly); Ockley's History of the Saracens, vol. ii. p. 127, 128. the year 668.February 20th is fixed as the date of the siege by Abulfeda, whose testimony Iesteem the most convenient and creditable of the Arabians.—The history of thisand the second siege of Constantinople is copied from the first of the tenth volumeof Mr. Gibbon, being in the history of the Saracens. Edit.