OCR Output 210 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. was in it. When the inhabitants of Gaza saw themselves in thisstate of affliction, and that no assistance came to them from De­metrius, that what distressed them was at hand, but what shouldprofit them was still at a great distance, and it was uncertainwhether it would come at all or not, they thought it would beprudent conduct to leave off any longer continuance .with him,and to cultivate friendship with the other; so they sent to Jona­than, and professed they would be his friends, and afford himassistance; for such is the temper of men, that before they havehad the trial of great afflictions, they do not understand what isfor their advantage; but when they find themselves under suchafflictions, they then change their minds, and what it had beenbetter for them to have done before they had been at all dam­aged, they choose to do, but not till after they have sufferedsuch damages. However, he made a league of friendship withthem, and took from them hostages for their performance ofit, and sent these hostages to Jerusalem, while he went himselfover all the country as far as Damascus. 6. But when he heard that the generals of Demetrius' forceswere come to the city Kadesh with a numerous army, (theplace lies between the land of the Tyrians and Galilee,) for theysupposed they should hereby draw him out of Syria, in orderto preserve Galilee, and that he would not overlook the Gali­leans, who were his own people, when war was made upon them,he went to meet them, having left Simon in Judea, who raisedas great an army as he was able out of the country, and thensat down before Bethsura, and besieged it, that being the strong­est place in all Judea; and a garrison of Demetrius' kept it,as we have already related. But as Simon was raising banks,and bringing his engines of war against Bethsura, and was veryearnest about the siege of it, the garrison was afraid lest theplace should be taken of Simon by force, and they put to thesword; so they sent to Simon, and desired the security 'of hisoath, that they should come to no harm from him, and thatthey would leave the place, and go away to Demetrius. Ac­cordingly he gave them his oath, and ejected them out of thecity, and he put therein a garrison of his own. 7. But Jonathan removed out of Galilee, and from the wa­ters which are called Gennesar, for there he was before en­camped, and came into the plain that is called Asor, withoutknowing that the enemy was there. When therefore Deme­trius' men knew a day beforehand, that Jonathan was comingagainst them, they laid an ambush in the mountain, who wereto assault him on the sudden, while they themselves met himwith an army in the plain: which army when Jonathan sawready to engage him, he also got ready his own soldiers for the