OCR Output NEMAUSUS.4]5 KEMAUSUS. trt. *hi<h may probably commemorate the conquesttf Egypt; oq the other are two heads, supposed to br Ai^rotixs and Agrippa, with the inscription imp. i medal has also been found in COr5 OP 2IEMAU8U9. contain* many memorials of its RomanTfae *uip4)itbe&tre, which is in goodj is lamer than that of Verona in Italy;; a fe.nr.iMl that it wonld contain 17,000% Hands in an open space, cleared of allIt has not the massiveof the amphitheatre ofi complete. A man may makeI on the flat which runs round the upperfar abont ooe-sixth of the circuit,nice and the flat are broken down. is about 437 EnglUh feet,the thickness of the walls. The[fcngfct on the ontaide is nearly 70 Englishi exterior face of the building consists of a: onary, and a atory ahore, which is crownedan sixty well arches in the ground story, all of the Fame sizeexcept four entrances, larger than the rest, whichcorrespond to the four cardinal points. These archesopen on a gallery, which runs all round the interiorof the building. The story above has also sixtyarches. All along the circumference of the atticthere are consoles, placed at equal distances, twoami two, and pierced in the middle by round holes.These holes received the poles which supported anawning to shelter the spectators from the sun andrain. When it was complete, there were thirty rowsof seats in the interior. At present there are onlyseventeen. The stones of the upper seats are ofenormous dimensions, some of them 12 feet long,and 2 feet in width. The temple now called the Maiton Carre'e is arparallelogram on the plan, about 76 English feetlong, and 40 wide. It is what is called pseudo-peripteral, with thirty Corinthian fluted pillars, allof which are engaged in the walls, except six onthe face and two on each side of the front portico,ten in all. The portico has, consequently, a con­siderable depth compared with the width. Thecolumns are ten diameters and a quarter in height.The temple is highly enriched in a good style.Saltier (1758) attempted to prove that thistemple was dedicated to C. and L. Caesar, the sonsof Agrippa by Julia the daughter of Augustus.But M. Auguste I'e'let has within the present cen -tury shown that it was dedicated to M. Aureliuaand L. Verus, The excavations which have beenmade round the Maison Carrie since 1821 showthat it was once surrounded by a colonnade, whichseems to have been the boundary of a forum, withinwhich the temple was placed. The Mainon Carree,after having passed through many hands, and beenapplied to many purposes, is now a museum ofpainting and antiquities. Arthur Young {Travelsin France, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 48) says "that theAfaison Carrie is beyond comparison the most light,elegant, and pleasing building 1 ever beheld.*Nobody will contradict this. I fnnntain of Nrmausus, which Auso-i (Ordo Aoft. tVA., Banti?ala)— I potn, ritrea non luce Nemausus *vi iiirfe are some traces of the ancientpkna, though the whole is a modern restora-hal the great snpply of water to Xemaususcalled the Pont du Card,by a subterraneous passago in the side of the rock of thefountain. A building called the Temple of Diana,and a large edifice called Tmtr Magne (TurritMagna), which appears to have been a sepulchralmonument, the gate of Augustus, and the gatecalled of France, are the chief remaining monumentsof Nemausus. The noblest Roman monument in France is theaqueduct called the Pont du Card, which is betweenthree and four leagues from Ntmes. Over this aque-