OCR Output A*. 899.] 315 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. say to him, that he had slain the true ownerof that field unjustly. And as soon as he came to him, and theking had said, that he might do with him whathe pleased, (for he thought it a reproach tohim to be thus caught in his sin,) Elijah said,that in the very place in which the dead bodyof Naboth was eaten up by the dogs, bothhis own blood, and that of his wife, shouldbe shed; and that all his family should perish,because he had been so insolently wicked,and had slain a citizen unjustly, and contraryto the laws of his country. Hereupon Ahabbegan to be sorry for the things he had done,and to repent of them; and he put on sack­cloth, and went barefoot,* and would nottouch any food: he also confessed his sins,and endeavoured thus to appease God. ButGod said to the prophet, while Ahab wasliving he would put off the punishment of hisfamily, because he repented of those insolentcrimes he had been guilty of; but that stillhe would fulfil his threatening under his son:fand this message the prophet delivered tothe king. CHAP. XIV OF THE EXPEDITION OF HADAD, KING OF DAMASCUS ANDSTRIA, AGAINST AHAB. WHEN the affairs of Ahab were in thissituation, the son of Benhadad, whowas king of the Syrians and Damascus, gottogether an army out of all his country, andprocured thirty-two kings beyond Euphratesto be his auxiliaries. So he made an expe­dition against Ahab. But because Ahab'sarmy was not like that of Benhadad's, he didnot set it in array to fight him; but havingshut up every thing that was in the countryin the strongest cities he had, he abode inSamaria himself: for the walls about it werevery strong, and it appeared not easily to betaken in other respects also. So the king ofSyria took his army with him, and came toSamaria, and placed his army round aboutthe city, and besieged it. He also sent aherald to Ahab, and desired he would admit the ambassadors he would send him; bywhom he would let him know his pleasure.So upon the king of Israel's permission forhim to send, those ambassadors came, andby their king's command spake thus: thatAhab's riches, and his children, and hiswives, were Benhadad's: and if he wouldmake an agreement, and give him leave totake as much of what he had as he pleased,he would withdraw his army, and leave offthe siege. Upon this Ahab made the am­bassadors to go back, and tell their king,that both he himself, and all that he had,were his possessions. And when these am­bassadors had told this to Benhadad, hesent to him again, and desired, since he con­fessed that all he had was his, that he wouldadmit those servants of his which he wouldsend the next day: and he commanded himto deliver to those whom he should send,whatever upon their searching his palace,and the houses of his friends, and kindred,they should find to be excellent in its kind:but that what did not please them theyshould leave him. At this second ambas-sage, Ahab was surprised, and gathered to­gether the multitude to a congregation, andsaid: "For myself, I am ready, for yoursafety and peace, to give up my own wivesand children to the enemy, and to yield tohim all my own possessions: for that waswhat the Syrian king required at his firstambassage. But now he desires to send hisservants to search all your houses; and inthem to leave nothing that is excellent inits kind; seeking an occasion of fightingagainst me; as knowing that I would notspare what is mine own for your sakes; buttaking a handle from the disagreeable termshe offers concerning you, to bring a warupon us. However, 1 will do what youshall resolve is fit to be done." Hereuponthe multitude advised him to hearken tonone of Benhadad's proposals, but to despisehim, and to be in readiness to fight. Ac­cordingly he dismissed the ambassadors withthis answer, that he still continued in themind to comply with what terms their masterat first desired, for the safety of the citizens; * "The Jews weep to this day," says Jerom, hererecited by Reland, "and roll themselves upon sackcloth,in ashes barefoot, upon such occasions." To which Span-heim adds, "that after the same manner Berenice, when voL. I.—NOS. 27 & 28. life was in danger, stood at the tribunal of Floras barefoot."Of the War, II. 15. See the like of David, 2 Sam. xv50. Antiq. VII.t 1 Kings xxi. 29. 3K