OCR Output 10 JERUSALEM. IERXE. porUnt than these scant/ notices, and, indeed, moreimportant than nil the notices of Ireland pot together,is the text of Ptolemy. In this author the detailsfur Ireland ('Iouayta) are fuller, rather than scantier,than those for Great Britain. Yet, as Ireland wasnever reduced, or even explored bj the Romans, hisauthorities must have been other than Latin. Alongwith this fact must be taken another, viz., that of theearliest notice of IreUnd('Uovi)) bciog full as early asthe earliest of Britain; earlier, if we attribute theArgonantic poem to Onomacritus; earlier, too, if wesuppose that Hanno was the authority of Avienos. If not Roman, the authorities for Ierne must barebeen Greek, or Phoenician, — Greek from MartciJks,1'hoenician from either the mother-country or Car­tilage. The probabilities are in favour of the Utter.On the other hand, early as we may make the firstvoyage from Carthage (via Spain) to Ireland, wefind no traces of any permanent occupancy, or of anyintern future of blood. The name Jerne was native;though it need not necessarily liave been taken fromthe Italians themselves. It may been Iberian(Spanish) as well. Some of the names in l'tolemv— a large proportion — are still current, e.g. Li-bum*. Semis, Oboe*, Birgus, Eblana, Nagnatae, &c,es Liffy, Shannon, A voca, Barrow, Dublin, Con-naught, &c. Ptolemy gives us chiefly the names ofthe Irish rivers and promontories, which, althoughalong a sea-board so deeply indented as that of Ire­land not always susceptible of accurate identification,are atill remarkably true in the general outline.What is of more importance, inasmuch as it showsthat his authorities liad gone inland, is the fact ofseven towns being mentioned : — " The inland townsare these, Rhigia, Rhaeba, Lavenis, Macolicum,Dunum, another Rhigia, Tumis." The populations are the Vennicnii and Rhobogdii,in L'Uter; the Nagnatae, in Connaught; the Knliniand Erpeditani, between the Nagnatae and Ven­nicnii; the Utemi and Vodiae, in if tauter; and theAuteri, Gangani, the Vcliborae (or Ellebri), betweenthe Uterni and Nagnatae. This leaves I^einttrr forthe Brigantes, Coriondi, Menapii, Cauci, Blanii,Voluntii. and Damii, the latter of whom may liavebeen in UUitr. Besides the inland towns, there wasa Menapia (veAis) and an Eblana (wJa.ii) on thecoast. Tacitus merely states that Agricola meditated theconquest of Ireland, and tliat the Irish were not verydifferent from the Britons: — "Ingcnia,cultusque ho-lniriuin haud multum a Britannia uillerunL" (Agric.24.) It is remarkable that on the eastern coast oneBritish and two German names occur,— Brigantes,Cauci, and Menapii. It is more remarkable tliattwo of these names are man or less associated onthe continent. The Chauci lie north of the Me­napii in Germany, though not directly. The inferencefrom this is by no means easy. Accident is the lastresource to the ethnographical philologist; so thatmore than one writer has assumed a colonisation.Such a fact is by no means improbable. It is notmuch more difficult for Germans to have been inWexford in the second century than it was forNorthmen to have been so in tho eighth, ninth, andtenth. On the other hand, the root m-n-p seems tohave been Celtic, and to have been a common, ratherthan a proper, name; since Pliny gives us the inlandhhmapin == A ngltta. No opinion is given u to thenature of these coincidences. Of none of the Irish tribes mentioned bj Ilolcmy do we meet any separate substantive notice, a noticeof their playing any part in history, or a notice oftheir having come in contact with any other nation.They appear only as details in the list of tho popu­lations of Ierne. Neither do the lerni appear col­lectively in history. They lay beyond the pale ofthe classical (Roman or Greek) nations, just as didthe tribes of Northern Germany and Scandinavia;and we know them only in their geography, not intheir history. But they may have been tribes nnmentioned byPtolemy, which do appear in history; or the namesof Ptolemy may have been changed. Ptolemysays nothing about any Scott; but Claudian does.He also connects them with Ireland: — '• maduerunt Ssxone fusoOrcades; incaluil Pictorum sanguine ThuleScotorum cumnlos flevit glacialia /erne." (Dt TerL Contnl. Uonorii, 72—74.)Again: — "totuin quum Scotus lernenMovit." (In Prim. Consul Stilich. ii. 252.) The extent to which the current opinions as to theearly history of the Gaels of Scotland confirm theideas suggested by the text of Claudian is consideredunder Scoti. At present it may be said that Scotimay easily have been either a generic name for someof the tribes mentioned in detail by Ptolemy, or elsea British instead of a Gaelic -name. At any rate, theScoti may easily have been, in the time of Ptolemy,an Irish population. Two other names suggest a similar question, —Belgae, and Attacotti. The claim of the latter toliave been Irish is better than that of the former.The Attacotti occur in mora than one Latin writer;the Belgae (Fir-bolgs) in the Irish annals only.[See Attacotti, and Bkixiae of Britannia.] The ethnology of the ancient Ierne is ascertainedby that of modern Ireland. The present populationbelongs to the Gaelic branch of the Celtic stock; apopulation which cannot be shown to hare beenintroduced within the historical period, whiUt thestock of the time of Ptolemy cannot be shown tohave been ejected. Hence, the inference tliat thepopulation of Ierne consisted of the ancestors of thepresent Irish, is eminently reasonable, — so reason­able that no objections lie against it. That Englishand Scandinavian elements have been introducedsinee, is well known. That Spanish (Iberic) andPhoenician elements may have oeen introduced in theante-historical period, is likely; the extent to whichit took place being doubtful. The most cautiousinvestigators of Irish archaeology have hesitated topronounce any existing remains either Phoenician orIberian. Neither an there any remains referable topagan Rome. [R. G. L.] IEKNUS, in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii.2. § 4) as the most southern of two rivers (theDurus being the other) lying between the Sen us(A'Aannon) and the Southern Promontory (StizrnHtml) = cither the Kenmart or the Ban try BayRiver. [R. G. L-] JERUSALEM, the ancient capital of Palaealine,and the seat of the Hebrew kingdom. I. Names. The name by which this ancient capital is m<vtcommonly known was not its original appellation,but apparently compounded of two earlier i