OCR Output CHAP. LII. 490 Latin schools."1 The physics, both of the Academy andthe Lycaeum, as they are built, not on observation, but onargument, have retarded the progress of real knowledge.The metaphysics of infinite, or finite spirit, have too oftenbeen enlisted in the service of superstition. But the hu­man faculties are fortified by the art and practice ofdialectics; the ten predicaments of Aristotle collect andmethodize our ideas," and his syllogism is the keenestweapon of dispute. It was dexterously wielded in theschools of the Saracens, but as it is more effectual for thedetection of error than for the investigation of truth, it isnot surprising that new generations of masters and dis­ciples should still revolve in the same circle of logicalargument. The mathematics are distinguished by apeculiar privilege, that, in the course ages, they mayalways advance, and can never recede. But the ancientgeometry, if I and not misinformed, was resumed in thesame state by the Italians of the fifteenth century; andwhatever may be the origin of the name, the science ofalgebra is ascribed to the Grecian Diophantus by themodest testimony of the Arabs themselves.0 They cul­tivated with more success the sublime science of astro­nomy, which elevates the mind of man to disdain hisdiminutive planet and momentary existence. The costlyinstruments of observation were supplied by the caliphAlmamon, and the land of the Chaldeans still affordedthe same spacious level, the same unclouded horizon. Inthe plains of Sinaar, and a second time in those of Cufa,his mathematicians accurately measured a degree of the '" See Mosheim, Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 181. 214. «36. 3o7. 315. 338. 396.438, &c. n The most elegant commentary on the Categories or Predicaments of Aru-totle may be found in the Philosophical Arrangements of Mr. James Harris(London, 1775, in octavo), who laboured to revive the studies of Grecian litera­ture and philosophy. "Abulpharagius, Dynast, p. 81. f22. Bibliot . Arab. Hist. turn. 1. p. 370, 371.In quern (says the primate of the Jacobites) si immiserit se lector, oceanum hocin genere (algebra) inveniet . The time of Diophantus of Alexandria is unknown,but hiu six books are still extant, and have been illustrated by the Creek Planudesand the Frenchman Meziriac. (Fabric. Bibliot. Grac. torn. 4. p. 12—15.) 2 K 2