OCR Output B, I. INTRODUCTION. Tl money which each state was to furnish against the Barbarian.The colour pretended was, " to revenge the calamities theyhad hitherto suffered, by carrying hostilities into the domin­ions of the King.'' This gave its first rise to the Athenianoffice of General Receivers of Greece*, whose business it wasto collect this tribute : For the contribution of this moneywas called by that title. The first tribute levied in conse­quence of this, amounted to foiir hundred and sixty talents.Delos was appointed to be their treasury; and the sittingswere held in the temple there. Their command was thus at first over free and independ­ent confederates, who sat with them at council, and had a votejn public resolutions. The enlargement of their authoritywas the result of wars and their own political managementduring the interval between the invasion of the Medes andthe present war, when the contests were against the Barbari­an, or their own allies endeavouring at a change, or those ofthe Peloponnesians who interfered on every occasion on pur­pose to molest them. Of these I have subjoined a particulardetail, and have ventured a digression from my subject, be­cause this piece of history hath been omitted by all precedingwriters. They have either confined their accounts to theaffairs of Greece prior in time, or to the invasions of theMedes. Hellanicus is the only one of them, who hath touch­ed it in his Attic history ; though his memorials are short, andnot accurately distinguished by proper dates. But this, atthe same time, will most clearly shew the method in which theAthenian empire was erected. * This nice and difficult point was adjusted by Aristides, to the generalsatisfaction of all parties concerned. Greece conferred upon him this mostimportant trust, he was called to this delicate commission by the unitedvoice of his country ; " Poor (says Plutarch) when he set about it; butpoorer when he had finished it," The Athenian state was now furnishedwith a large annual fund, by which it was enabled not only to annoy theforeign enemies of Greece, but even those Greeks who should at any timepresume to oppose the measures of Athens. They soon found out thattheir own city was a more convenient place for keeping this treasure than•he isle of Delos, and accordingly took care to remove it thither.