OCR Output S99 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. upon one Galilean only. The Jews complied with these persua­sions of theirs, and dispersed themselves; but still there were agreat number who betook themselves to robbing, in hopes ofimpunity, and rapines and insurrections of the bolder sort hap­pened over the whole country; and the men of power amongthe Samaritans came to Tyre, to * Ummidius Quadratus, thepresident of Syria, und desired that they that had laid waste thecountry might be punished: the great men also of the Jews, andJonathan the son of Ananlis, the high-priest, came thither, andsaid, that the Samaritans were the beginners of the disturbance,oa account of that murder they had committed, and that Cuma-nus had given occasion to what had happened, by his unwilling­ness to punish the original authors of that murder. 6". But Quadratus put both parties off for that time, and toldthem, that when he should come to those places he would make,a diligent inquiry after every circumstance. After which hewent to Cesare?!, and crucified all those whom Cumanus hadtaken alive; and when from thence he was COITC to the cityLydda, he heard the affair of the Samaritans, and sent for eigh.,teen of the Jews whom he had learned to have been concernedin that fight, and beheaded them; but he sent two others ofthose that were of the greatest power among them, and both Jo­nathan and Ananias, the high-priests, as also Ananus the son ofthis Ananias, and certain others that were eminent among theJews, to Caesar; as he did in like manner by the most illustriousof the Samaritans. He also ordered that Cumanus [the procu­rator] and Celer the tribune should sail to Rome, in order to givean account of what had been done to Caesar. When he had fi­nished these matters, he went up from Lydda to Jerusalem, andfinding the multitude celebrating their feast of unleavened breadwithout any tumult, he returned to Antioch. 7. Now when Caesar at Rome had heard what Cumanus andthe Samaritans had to say (where it was done in the hearing ofAgrippa, who zealously espoused the cause of the Jews, as, inlike manner, many of the great men stood by Cumanus), hecondemned the Samaritans, and commanded that three of themost powerful men among them should be put to death; he ba­nished Cumanus, and sent Celer bound to Jerusalem, to be de­livered over to the Jews to be tormented, that he should bedrawn round the city, and then beheaded. 6. After this Caesar sent Felixf, the brother of Pallas, to be procurator * This Ummidius, or Numidiiw, or, as Tacitus calls him, VhiJixs QuaJratiu, ismentioned in an ancient inscription, still preserved, as Spanheim here inform us.»?hich calls him UMMIDIUS QUADRATUS. t Take the character of this Felix (who is well known from the Acts of the