OCR Output 2fm LOCBL LOCKI. from the period of their very foundation. (Strab. vi.p. 259.) On the other hand, they were almostconstantly on terms of hostility with their neighboursof Rhegium, and, during the rule of Anaxilas, in thelatter city, were threatened with complete destruc­tion by that despot, from which they were saved bythe intervention of Hieron of Syracuse. (Pind. Pyth.ii. 35 ; and Schol. (id loc.) In like manner we nndthein, at the period of the Athenian expeditions toSicily, in close alliance with Syracuse, and on termsof open enmity with Bhegium. Hence they at firstengaged in actual honlilities with the Atheniansunder Laches; and though they subsequently con­cluded a treaty of peace with them, they still refusedto admit the great Athenian armament, in B.c. 415,even to anchor on their coasts. (Thuc. iii. 99, 115,iv. 1, 24, ▼. 5, vi. 44, vii. 1; Diod. xii. 54, xiii. 3.)At a later period of the Pelopomieaian War theywere among the few Italian cities that sent auxiliaryships to the Lacedaemonians. (Thuc. viii. 91.) During the reign of the elder Dionysius at Syra­cuse, the bonds of amity between the two cities werestrengthened by the personal alliance of that monarch,who married Doris, the daughter of Xenetus, one ofthe most eminent of the citizens of Locri. (Diod.xir. 44.) He subsequently adhered steadfastly to thisalliance, which secured him a footing in Italy, fromwhich he derived great advantage in his wars againstthe Rbegians and other states of Magna Graecia. Inreturn for this, as well as to secure the continuanceof their support, he conferred great benefits upon theLocrians, to whom he gave the whole territory ofCaulonia, after the destruction of that city inB.C. 389; to which he added that of Hipponium inthe following year, and a part of that of Scylletinm.(Diod. xiv. 1UO, 106, 107; Strab. p. 261.) Hip­ponium was, however, again wrested from them bythe Carthaginians in b.c. 379. (Id. xv. 24.) Thesame intimate relations with Syracuse continuedunder the younger Dionysius, when they became thesource of great misfortunes to the city: for thatdesp»t, after his expulsion from Syracuse (b.c. 356),withdrew to Locri, where he seized ou the citadel,and established himself in the possession of despoticpower. His rale here is described as extremelyarbitrary and oppressive, and stained at once by themost excessive avarice and unbridled licentiousness.At length, after a period of six years, the Locrianstook advantage of the absence of Dionysius, anddrove out his garrison; while they exercised a cruelvengeance upon his unfortunate wife and daughters,who had fallen into their hands. (Justin, xxi. 2,3;Strab. vi. p. 259; Arist. Pol. v. 7; Clearch. ap.Atke*\ xii. 541.) The Locrians are said to hare suffered severelyfrom the oppressions of this tyrant; but it is pro­bable that they sustained still greater injury fromthe increasing power of the Hruttians, who were nowbecome most formidable neighbours to all the Greekcities in this part of Italy. The Locrians never ap­pear to have fallen under the yoke of the bar­barians, but it is certain that their city declinedgreatly from its former prosperity. It is not againmentioned till the wars of I'yrrhua. At that periodit appears that Locri, as well as iChcgium andother Greek cities, had placed itself under the pro­tection of Rome, and even admitted a Koman gar­rison into its walls. On the approach of Pyrrhus ~ expelled this garrison, and declared themselves T)ur of that monarch (Justin, xviii. 1); but id soon cause to regret the change: for the garrison left there by the king, during hisin Sicily, conducted itself so ill, that the Lot-hamrose against them and expelled them from theircity. On this account they were severely punishedby Pyrrhus on his return from Sicily; and, not con­tent with exactions from the inhabitants, he carriedoff a great part of the sacred treasures from thetemple of Proserpine, the most celebrated sanctuaryat Locri. A violent storm is said to hare punishedhis impiety, and compelled him to restore the trea­sures. (Appian, Samn. iii. 12; Lir. xxix. 18;Val. Max. i. l.Ext. § 1.) After the departure of Pyrrhus, the Locriansseem to have submitted again to Home, aud too-tin tied so till the Second Punic War, when ti*-ywere among the states that threw off the Komanalliance and declared in favour of the Carthaginians,after the battle of Cannae, B.C. 216. (Lir. xxii.61, xxiii. 30.) They soon after received a Cartha­ginian force within their walls, though at the sautetime their liberties were guaranteed by a treaty ofalliance on equal terms. (Liv. xxiv. 1.) When thefortune of the war began to turn against Carthxcf.Locri was besieged by tlie Koman cotisul Crisptnus,but without success; and the approach of Haniub*!compelled him to raise the siege, B.C. 208. (Id.xxvii. 25, 28.) It was not till B.c 205, thatScipio, when on the point of sailing for Africa, wasenabled, by the treachery of some of the citizen*, tosurprise one of the forts which cum maud txl thetown; an advantage that soon led to tlie surmxirrof the other citadel and the city itself. (Id. xxix.6—8.) Scipio conBded the charge of the city andthe command of the garrison to his legate, <4> Wsvminius; but that officer conducted himself with sorbcruelty and rapacity towards the unfortunate Lo­crians, that they rose in tumult against him, and aviolent sedition took place, which was only apj*a*edby the intervention ot Scipio himself. That general,however, took the part of Pleminius, whom be con­tinued in his command; and the Locrians were ex-jAtocd anew to his exactions and cruelties, nil theyat length took courage to appeal to tlie K"cnaa se­nate. Notwithstanding vehement opposition on lirepart of the friends of Scipio, the senate pronouncedin favour of the Locrians, condemned I'leiumioa.and restored to tlie Locrians their liberty and theenjoyment of their own laws. (Liv. xxix. 8, 16—22; Diod. xxvii. 4; Appian, Annib, 55.) Plrmi-nius had, on this occasion, followed the example ./Pyrrhus in plundering the temple of Proserpine:but the senate caused restitution to be made, andthe impiety to be expiated at the public cost.(Diod. L c.) From this time we bear little of Locri. Not­withstanding the privileged condition conceded to itby the senate, it seems to have sunk into a Ten-subordinate position. Poly bins, however, speaks o/ itas in his day still a considerable town, which waabound by treaty to furnish a certain amount of* navalauxiliaries to tlie Romans. (I'oL x"L 5.) TheLocrians were under particular obligations to thathistorian {lb.) ; and at a later period we tind themenjoying the special patronage of Cicero (C*c <*>Ltg. ii. 6), but we do not know tbe oricin of theirconnection with the great orator. From S:rabos ac­count it is obvious that Locri still subsisted as a townin his day, and it is noticed in like manner by Ituryand Ptolemy (Strab. vi p. 259; Plin. iii. &. a. lOt1'tol. iii. 1. § 10). Its name is not found in theItineraries, though they describe this coa*t in cuu.