OCR Output 272 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. since she desired that he might marry Abi-shag; and that he had potent friends, Joabthe captain of the host, and Abiathar thepriest. So he called for Benaiah, the cap­tain of the guards, and ordered him to slayhis brother Adonijah.* He also called forAbiathar, the priest, and said to him, "I willnot put thee to death, because of those hard­ships which thou hast endured with my father,and because of the ark which thou hast bornealong with him; but I inflict the followingpunishment upon thee, because thou wastamong Adonijah's followers, and wast of hisparty. Do not thou continue here, nor comeany more into my sight; but go to thine owntown, and live on thine own fields, and thereabide all thy life; for thou hast offended sogreatly, that it is not just thou shouldest re­tain thy dignity any longer." For the afore­mentioned cause therefore it was, that thehouse of Ithamar was deprived of the sacer­dotal dignity, as God had foretold to Eli, thegrandfather of Abiathar. So it was trans­ferred to the family of Phineas, to Zadok.Now those that were of the family of Phineas,but lived privately during the time that thehigh priesthood was transferred to the houseof Ithamar, (of which family Eli was the firstthat received it,) were these that follow:Bnkki, the son of Abishua, the high-priest;his son was "fJoatham; Joatham's son wasMeraioth; Meraioth's son was JArophoeus;Arophoeus's son was Ahitub; and Ahitub'sson was Zadok: who was first made high-priest in the reign of David. Now when Joab, the captain of his host,had heard of the slaughter of Adonijah, hewas greatly afraid, for he was a greater friend to him than to Solomon; and suspecting, notwithout reason, that he was in danger on ac­count of his favour to Adonijah, he fled to thealtar, and supposed he might procure safetythereby to himself; because of the king's pietytowards God. But when some told the kingwhat Joab's supposal was, he sent Benaiah,and commanded him to raise him up from thealtar, and bring him to the judgment seat, inorder to make his defence. However Joabsaid he would not leave the altar, but woulddie there, rather than in another place. Andwhen Benaiah had reported his answer tothe king, Solomon commanded him to ||cutoff his head there,§ and let him take that asa punishment for those two captains of hishost whom he had wickedly slain, and to buryhis body: that his sins might never leave hisfamily; but that himself and his father, byJoab's death, might be guiltless. And whenBenaiah had done what he was commandedto do he was himself appointed to be captainof the whole army. The king also madeZadok high-priest, in the room of Abiathar,**whom he had removed. But as to Shimei, Solomon commandedthat he should build him a house, and stay atJerusalem, and attend upon him; and shouldnot have authority to go over the brook Ce-dron; and that if he disobeyed that command,death should be his punishment. He alsothreatened him so terribly, that he compelledhim to take an oath, that he would obey, Ac­cordingly, Shimei said, that he had reason tothank Solomon for giving him such an injunc­tion, and added an oath that he would do ashe bade him: and, leaving his own country,he made his abode in Jerusalem.ff But three * 1 Kings ii. 25.Zerahiah, 1 Chron. vi. 6. :; Amariah, 1 Chron. vi. 7. I This execution upon Joab, as a murderer, by slayinghim, even when he had taken sanctuary at God's altar, isperfectly agreeable to the laws of Moses, which enjoins,that "If a man come presumptuously upon his neighbourto slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from minealtar, that he may die." Exod. xxi. 14. § It was formerly very customary among princes, toemploy their officers, or greatest confidants, in such likeexecutions. Among the Romans, the soldiers were alwaysthe persons who carried to prison, to torture, or to ex­ecution, such as were found guilty of any offence; andthis Tertullian makes an argument to dissuade Christiansfrom engaging in their wars, lest thereby they should beobliged to imprison, punish, or execute malefactors. In Dan. ii. 24. we read, that Nebuchadnezzar sent Arioch,who was chief commander of his troops, to destroy thewise men of Babylon, because they could not interpret hisdream; and therefore we need less wonder, that we findSolomon employing Benaiah, the captain of his guard, onthe like office. But whether he did not first drag Joabfrom the altar before he slew him, for fear of polluting theholy place with blood, or whether Solomon did not ratherthink fit to have him killed even at the altar, and let allmen see, that no place, though never so sacred, shouldsecure any man from the hand of justice, commentatorshave not agreed. Calmefs and Patrick's Comment. B. ** 1 Kings ii. 35. tt Shimei, as we read, was a very powerful man.When he came to meet king David, and to beg pardonfor his offence, he had a thousand of his own tribe toaccompany him, 2 Sam. xix. 17. and therefore Solomon