OCR Output RHODIORTJM REGIO. 713 RHODES. mi it V/cia, i. pp. 166, 181.) The town had atorpla of Asrlepius, and its citizens are not called,u Stephanos Byx. asserts, 'Points, but 'PoJiairo-Airai or 'PoJieroAjrai, whence it appears that Pliny(«. 2$) correctly calls the town Rhodiopolis. Apirn of the numerous remains of this town ismn by Spratt, according to whom it was not • irrwdad by walls: the theatre stands nearly int*# centre, and is small, having a diameter of onlyIte feet; bat many of the seats remain, and theL**ment of the proscenium is perfect. In the fronta* ri si a terrace, with scats along the parapet.E>?uics of charehes show that the place wasuiised in Christian times. There are also tracesi u aqueduct. The town being situated on a ■ r.r eminence, commands an extensive annthern■oapeet, [L. S.] . RHODKXRUM REGIO. [Pbraea.]RHODIL'S ('Pooiot), a river of Troas, having itsi-jrr» in Mount Ida, a little above the town ofbrrra; it flows in a north-western direction, and afteraranr, by Astyra and Cremaste, discharges itselfat lie Hellespont between Dardanos and Abydus.H,-n. IL xii. 20, xx. 215: Hesiod, Theog. 341;baa. an. p. 554, xiii. pp. 595, 603; Phn. v. 33.)witm (xiii. p. 595) states that some regarded theBanal as a tributary of the Aeaepns; but theyrut bave been mistaken, as the river is mentioneda tb» ecus of Dardanus. (Sestini, Geoff. NumU.i » ) Pliny ({. c.) states that this ancient riverf Wert existed; and some modem writers identify: with the Pydina mentioned by Thucydides (viii.H; eamc. Hesych. and Phsvorin. t. v. Tli/oW).fcatar ( Wallfahrten, p. 457) describes its presenta4.E*zi as that of a brook flowing into the Dar-mrUrt br many mouths and marshes. [I.. S.]KfcK/DOPE ('P<Mm, Herod, vi. 49; Thuc. ii.96;•VV xxxrr. 19; Strab. iv. p. 208, vii. pp. 313,ft. HI; Mela, ii. 2. § 2: Plin. iii. 29, iv. 5.s. 17;>an. Marc. xxi. 10. § 3; Malchus, ap. Exe. de Leg.am. p. 90). a mountain chain forming the W. con-caean of Haemus, and the frontier between Thraceac Macedonia, of which little more is known thans asm*. On it* desolate heights, the lurkingare <sf the fierce Satrae, was the great sanctuaryu nclr of the Thracian Dionysus. As the Stry- ■ tauk its sBSutw in Rhodope (Strab. viii. p. 331)> irfa ridges round Dupnilsa and GhiuttatdUml br assigned to Rhodope, which may roughly be ■ to brtont: to the central of the three continuousbaa, wkkh under the name of the Detpoto Daghwrbe* oat to the S. of the Balkan (Haemus) atm M= E. long. [E. B. J.]RHOUCNTIA OPeoWrlo: Elk. ToJoiWioj), aEwas on Ml. Callidromua, defending one of theaaa to Thermopylae. (Strab. ix. p. 428; Liv.fi IC 19; Steph. B. s. c; Leake, Northernan, Tai. ii. pp. 10, 62, 64.) kHODUS ('P4»»»: Eli. 'Vitus: Rhode*), one of'rt «f iaiands of the Aegean, or more properlytiit part of the Aegean which is called thevuhian us, about 9 or 10 miles from the coastCarta. In the earliest times it is said to hsve * the names of Ophiussa (Steph. B.». r. 'PiiJos),■as. Tckninis (Strab. xvi. p. 653), Asteria,aaraaa, Truaacria, Corymbia, Poteesaa, Atabyria,■arsa, and Otoiwa. (Plin. v. 36.) It extends ■ malk to north, and is 920 stadia in circum-mm (Strab. sir. p. 605), or, according to Pliny,; &man miles, though others reduced it to 103. is traversed from north to south by a chain of mountains, the highest point of which wascalled Atabyris or Atabyrion, and the towns weroall situated on the coast. Mount Atabyris is 4560feet above the level of the sea, and on the top of itstood a temple of Zeus Atabyrius. Rhodes wasbelieved to have at one time risen out of the sea,and the Telchincs, its most ancient inhabitants, aresaid to bave immigrated from Crete. (Pind. Olymp.vii. 23, lux.; Plin. ii. 87; Aristid. Oral, xliii. p.653, ed. Dind.; Strab. It; Diod. v. 55.) TheTelchines, about whom many fabulous stories arerelated, are said to hare been nine in number,and their sister Halia or Amphitrite became byPoseidon the mother of six sons and one daughter,Rhodoe, from which in the end the island receivedthe name it still bears. Others, however, withbetter reason, derive the name Rhodns from jiStov, arose, for the rose appears as a symbol on coins of theisland, so that Rhodus would be "the island ofRoses." (Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 602; Sestini, Num.Vet. p. 382.) These most ancient and fabu­lous Telchines are said to hare perished or beendriven from the island during an inundation, andHelios then created a new race of inhabitants, whowere called after him Heliadae; they were seven innumber, and became ancestors of seven tribes, whichpartly peopled Rhodns itself and partly emigratedto Lesbos, Cos, Caria, and Egypt The Heliadaeare said to have greatly distinguished themselves bythe progress they made in the sciences of astronomyand navigation. (Pind. I. c. 160, &c; Diod. v. 56:Conon, Narrat. 47; Strab. xiv. p. 654.) After thisvarious immigrations from foreign countries arementioned: Egyptians nnder Danaus, Phoeniciansunder Cadmus, Thessalians and (.'avians, are eachsaid to have furnished their contingent to the popu­lation of Rhodes. Whatever we may think of thesealleged immigrations, they can have but little af­fected the national character of the Rhodians, whichin fact did not become fixed until a branch of theDoric race took possession of the island, after whichevent the Doric character of its inhabitants becamothoroughly established. Some Dorians or Heracleidae ,appear to have been settled there as early as theTrojan War, for the Heracleid Tlrpolemus is de­scribed as having sailed to Troy with nine ships.(//. ii. 653; Diod. iv. 58, v. 59; Apollod. ii. 8. § 2.)After the Trojan War Aethaemenes, a Heracleidfrom Argns, led other settlers to Rhodus. (Strab.xiv. p 653; Diod. xv. 59; Apollod. iii. 2. § 1;comp. Thuc. vii. 57; Aristid. Oral. xliv. p. 839.)After this time the Rhodians quietly developed theresources of their island, and rose to great prosperityand affluence. The three most ancient towns of the island wereLlNDi'S, Ialysis, and Camiri'S, which were be­lieved to have been founded by three grandsonsof the Heliad Ochimus bearing the same names,or, according to others, by the Heracleid Tlrpo­lemus. (Diod. iv. 58, v. 57.) These three towns,together with Cos.Cnidus, and Haticarnassux, formedwhat was called the Doric hexapolis, which hadits common sanctuary on the Triopian headlandon the coast of Caria, Apollo being the tutelarydeity of the confederation. (Herod, i. 144.) Thorapid progress made by the Khndian towns ata comparatively early period is sufficiently attestedby their colonies in the distant countries of thewest. Thus they founded settlements in the Balearicislands, Rhode on the coast of Spain, Parthenope,Salapia, Siris, and Sybaris in Italy, and Gcla in