OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. confidence was ungratefully betrayed: instead of solicit­ing and expecting the aid of the king of Italy, theyyielded to the first summons a cheerful obedience: andthis province, the first fruits of the Punic wars, was again,1after a long separation, united to the Roman empire.1The Gothic garrison of Palermo, which alone attemptedto resist, was reduced, after a short siege, by a singular-stratagem. Belisarius introduced his ships into thedeepest recess of the harbour; their boats were labo­riously hoisted with ropes and pulleys to the topmasthead, and he filled them with archers, who, from thatsuperior station, commanded the ramparts of the city.After this easy, though successful campaign, the con­queror entered Syracuse in triumph, at the head of hisvictorious bands, distributing gold medals to the people,on the day which so gloriously terminated the year ofthe consulship. He passed the winter season in the pa­lace of ancient kings, amidst the ruins of a Grecian co­lony, which once extended to a circumference of two-and-twenty miles :m but in the spring, about the festivalof Easter, the prosecution of his designs was interruptedby a dangerous revolt of the African forces. Carthagewas saved by the presence of Belisarius, who suddenlylanded with a thousand guards. Two thousand soldiersof doubtful faith returned to the standard of their oldcommander: and he marched, without hesitation, abovefifty miles, to seek an enemy whom he affected to pityand despise. Eight thousand rebels trembled at his ap­proach; they were routed at the first onset, by the dexrterity of their master: and this ignoble victory wouldhave restored the peace of Africa, if the conqueror hadnot been hastily recalled to Sicily, to appease a sedition 'For the conquest of Sicily, compare tho narrative of Procopins with the com­plaints of Totila. (Gothic lib. 1. o. '5. lib.'S. o. 16.) The Gothic queen had latelyrelieved that thankless island. (Var. 9.10.11.) m The ancient magnitude and. splendour of the five quarters of Syracuse, are deli­neated by Cicero (in Vcrrem, actio2. lib. 4. c. 52, 53)Strabo, (lib, 6. p. 415.,) anild'Orville Sicula. (tom. 2..p. 174—202.) The new city, restored by Augustus, shrunktowards the island.