OCR Output 230 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. had, till now, continued with Saul's son, whenthe rest of the tribe of Judah had ordainedDavid for their king. There came also seventhousand and one hundred out of the tribe ofSimeon; out of the tribe of Levi came fourthousand and seven hundred, having Jehoiadafor their leader. After these came Zadok,the high-priest, with twenty-two captains ofhis kindred. Out of the tribe of Benjaminthe armed men were four thousand; but therest of the tribe continued still expecting thatsome one of the house of Saul should reignover them. Those of the tribe o( Ephraimwere twenty thousand and eight hundred; andthese mighty men of valour, and eminent fortheir strength. Out of the half tribe of Ma-nasseh came eighteen thousand of the mostpotent men. Out of the tribe of Issacharcame two hundred,* who foreknew what wasto come hereafter: but of armed men twentythousand. Of the tribe of Zebulun fifty thou­sand chosen men. This was the only tribewhich came universally in to David: and allthese had the same weapons with the tribe ofGad. Out of the tribe of Naphtali the emi­nent men and rulers were one thousand,whose weapons were shields and spears, andthe tribe itself followed after; being, in amanner,t innumerable. Out of the tribe ofDan there were of chosen men, twenty-seventhousand and six hundred. Out of the tribeof Asher were forty thousand. Out of thetwo tribes that were beyond Jordan, and the rest of the tribe of Manasseh, such as usedshields, and speais, and head-pieces, andswords, were a hundred and twenty thousand.The rest of the tribe also made use of swords.This multitude < ame together to Hebron, toDavid; with a great quantity of corn, wine,and all other sorts of food: and establishedDavid in his kingdom with one consent. Andwhen the people had feasted and rejoicedthree days in Hebron, David and all the peo­ple removed, and came to Jerusalem. CHAP. III. OF THE SIEGE AND REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM, BY KIN;DAVID; WHO EXPELLED THE CANAANITF.S AND BROUGHTIN THE JEWS. NOW the Jebusites, who were the inha­bitants of Jerusalem, and were by ex­traction Canaanites, shut their gates; andplaced their blind, lame, and maimed personsupon the wall, in way of derision of theking;J and said, that the very lame them­selves would hinder his entrance into it. Thisthey did out of contempt of his power, andas depending on the strength of their walls.David was hereby enraged, and began thesiege of Jerusalem, and employed his utmostdiligence and alacrity therein; as intendingby the taking of this place to demonstrate hispower, and to intimidate all others that mightbe of the like evil disposition towards him.So he took the lower city by force, but lhe|j * These words of Josephus concerning the tribe of Is­sachar, who foreknew what was to come hereafter, arebest paraphrased by the parallel text, 1 Chron. xii. 32.Who had understanding of the times to know what Israelought to do, i. e. Who had so much knowledge of astro­nomy as to make calendars for the Israelites; that theymight keep their festivals, and plough, and sow, and gatherin their harvests and vintage in due season. t Thirty-seven thousand, 1 Chron. xii. 34. J The blind and the lame, says Luther, upon this place,were the idols of the Jebusites, which, to irritate David,they set upon their walls, as their patrons and protectors;and these they call blind and lame sarcastically, and withrespect to David's opinion: as if they had said, ' Thesegods of ours, whom ye Israelites reproach, as blind andlame, and so unable to direct or defend us, will secure usagainst you, and to your cost, make you find that theyare neither blind nor lame, but have eyes to watch for us,and hands to fight against you, so that you must conquerand subdue them, before you take this place.' But thisinterpretation seems to be a little too metaphorical andlorced, for which reason we have rather chosen the con­struction which Josephus (lib. vii. cap. 2.) puts upon thispassage, viz. that they imagined their fortress to be 00 impregnable, that by way of contempt, they told David,that their very blind and lame would be able to defendit against him and all his forces; and this is a sense soextremely plain and obvious, that the renowned liochartwonders, why any man of learning should seek for anyother. The only exception to it is, that these blind andlame, (which were rather objects of compassion,) are saidto have been extremely hated by David. But we mayobserve, that David here retorts the sarcasm upon them;The lame and blind, i. e. those who are said to defendthe place, and who, as they pretended, were to be onlythe lame and the blind. And these were hateful to David,because they had wickedly and insolently defied the ar­mies of the living God. Pool's Annotations, Patrick'sand Le (Here's Comment. B. II What our other copies say of Mount Sion as aloneproperly called the city of David, 2 Sam. v. 6—9. and ofthis its siege and conquest now by David, Josephus applies to the whole city Jerusalem: though including thecitadel also. By what authority we do not now know;perhaps after David had united them together, or joinedthe citadel to the lower city, Josephus esteemed them asone city. However this notion seems to be confirmed bywhat the tame Josephus says concerning David's and roanx