OCR Output 1306 VIA VALERIA. VIA VALERIA. pavement, or by sepulchres and fragments of an­cient buildings, so that no doubt can exist as to itsprecise course. It quitted the original city by thePorta Esquilina, passed through the Porta Tiburtina(now Porta S. Lorenzo) in the walls of Aurelian, andthen pn>ceeded nearly in a straight line to the Anio,which it crossed by a bridge about 4 miles fromRome. This bridge, now called the Ponte Mammolo,is in its present state the work of Narses, havingbeen restored at the same time as those on theVia Salaria and Nomentana, after their destructionby Totila, a. D. 549. From this bridge the ancientroad followed very nearly the same line as themodern one as far as the Logo <Ji Tartaro, a smalllake or pool of sulphureous waters, similar in charac­ter to the more considerable pool called the Solfataraor Aquae Albulae, about 2 miles farther on, and amile to the left of the highroad. Leaving this onthe left, the Via Tiburtina proceeded almost perfectlystraight to the Ponte Litcatto, at the foot of the hillof Tiro!/', where it recrossed the Anio. There canbe no doubt that this bridge retains its ancient nameof Pons Lucanus, though this is not mentioned byany ancient author: but the origin of the name isevident from the massive sepulchre of the Plautianfamily (a structure not unlike the celebrated tombof Caecilia Metella on the Appian Way), which standsclose to the bridge, and which was constructed by M.Plautius Lucanus, who was censor together with Tibe­rius in the reign of Augustus. From the inscriptionon an ancient milestone it appears that tins part of theroad was constructed by him at the same time; auditis probable that the original Via Tiburtina was car­ried from the Logo di Tartaro in a different direc­tion, hearing away more to the left, so as to leavethe Aquae Albulae on the right; while the roadconstructed by Plautius, like the modern highroad,passed between that lake and Tibur. The 14thmilestone was found near the spot where the roadcrosses the artificial channel that carries off thewaters of the lake. From the Ponte Lucano theancient road ascended the hill of Tibur by a verysteep and straight ascent, passing through or undera portion of the vaulted substructions of the so-calledvilla of Maecenas. [Tibur.] The Itineraries all agree in stating the distance ofTibur from Koine at 21) miles; but it in reality littleexceeds IS by the direct road, which crossed thePonte Lvcano, as above described. The Tabulagives the Aquae Albulae as an intermediate station,but places it 10 M. P. from Rome, though the truedistance is only 14. From Tibur the Via Valeria ascended the valleyof i he Anio, passing by the town of Varin ( Vicovaro),8 miles from Tibur, to a point marked by an inn,now called Osteria Ferrata, 5 miles beyond Vico­varo and 13 from Tivolu This point, where theAnio makes a sudden bend, is evidently the site ofthe station Ad Lamnas of the Tabula, whencea side road struck off to the right, ascending thoupper valley of the Anio to Sublaqueum (Subiaco),whence the road derived the name of Via Sl*bla-censis, by which it is mentioned by FrontinuaAquwdtict. 15). The road is given in the Tabula,hm in so confused a manner that it is impossible tomake it out. Sublaquenm was in reality 48 milesfrom Rome by this route.or 28 from Tibur. The Via Valeria, on the other hand, turned to theb ft at the Ostrria Ferrata, and crossed the bills toCarseoli, the ruins of which are stiil risible at somedistance nearer Rome than the modern village of | Carsoli. Thence it ascended a feteep nwnri:-■ pass, where portions of the ancient md. vitfa t§pavement and mi bs true lions, are still fisitle, sad *>scended again into the basin of the Lai.* 1 ;ac .-After passing by, rather than through. Alafar^.it was carried along the N. shore of the lake to C»feimia, the site of which is clearly wenfctwc c »spot just below the village of Coil" Armeao. [Ca-FEHNla.] Here, as already mentitned, t« onr^Via Valeria terminated; hut the cwiiimjauos I...as constructed by Claudius, and givwi m ibe Is*raries. ascended the steep mountain-pass of tie UtMI.MEU3, and thence descended into the Tiirr cthe Atetnus, on the banks of whkh, near its ef­fluence with the Gizio, stood the citr of Conine.Three miles from that city ■ -Aternus (near the site of the preseiiH^fckA?*i.which constituted an important ntikar^WoK[Aternus.] Below this point tin-; ~ ■ . Mt^a narrow pass or defile, through which tinleria also was carried. The station Icttrpna^Hmarked in the Itineraries a* 12 milesfrotQ C-jtSb^must be placed at the Osteria di & VaUrim,the village of the same name. Thence tor midescended the valley of the Aternus to aa has,which is correctly placed by the Itineraries 21from Interpromium, and 9 bevond Teare(tire":The distances given in the Antenna Iiiaca?from Rome to this point are as foilow.—Rome to Tibur (Tiwli) - - xx. x.r.Carseoli (Ru. near Car&M) no.Alba Focentia (Alba) - xit. (xxajCerfennia (Sta Felicita) xui (xn>)Corfinium (5. Pelmo) - xvi.(m.)Interpromium (Ost. di S. Valentino) - - xi. (xL)Teate (Chiett) - - xra. i,ia)The distances stated in parentheses are lbs tarxtions suggested by D'Anvilie, who exanLi« aiwliole of this line of route with much cartconfirmed by the discovery of ancientwhich leave no doubt as to the actual distanws. Tt*general correctness of the result thus oi-taiaN * «-tinned by a statement of Pliny (uL 5. s. 6). ahe estimates the breadth of Italy in its cearri* X*-as measured from the mouths of the Tiberof the Aternus at 136 miles. Here the imc&s ithe Aternus leaves little doubt that the msssmnw*was taken along the Via Valeria, Now the corner,distances above given amount to 118 cuiff c-aRome to Teate, or 125 miles to the nvota * MAternus; and if to this be added 16 mite treeto Ostia, the result is 141 miles, acreeiEi,5 miles, with the statement of Fliny. (For a full examination of this whole finetfsee D'Anville, Analyse Geogr. de litaiie, ft> 17»—1S2, and Kramer, J)er Farmer £er. pf. $ZThe Via Tiburtina and the tirs; part <* the Vwsaare also described and examined bv We-tf-iai. A**Kamp. pp. 108—121, and Kibfaf, Ym droliA****pp. 96—104 ) The proper termination nf the \Ta Vaieru, a? i*r-tinued by Claudius, was undoubtedly at \ht**&of the Aternus. But the Antomns IiiBprirr o»tinues it on to Iladria, which it places at 14 Mr*-from Teate; but this distance is muri b»>w mtruth: we should perhaps read 24 M.P. T-1* V**bability is, that at the month of the A ten as ft »into the line of road previously ensUai *-^* l>coast of the Adriatic, and which, wiit^: if^crxproperly to any of the three highway* thai jnsw"«