OCR Output 192 [book vr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. years in all. the multitude had no settledform of government, but were in an anarchy.After which they returned to their formergovernment; they then permitting them­selves to be judged by him who appearedto be the best warrior and most courageous;whence it was that they called this intervalof their government the Judges. Then did Samuel call another assemblyalso, and said to them, " I solemnly adjureyou by God Almighty, who brought thoseexcellent brethren, I mean Moses andAaron, into the world; and delivered ourfathers from the Egyptians, and from theslavery they endured under them; that youwill not speak what you say to gratify me,nor suppress any thing out of fear of me, norbe overborne by any other passion; but saywhat have I ever done that was cruel orunjust? or what have I done out of lucre,or covetousness, or to gratify others? Bearwitness against me if I have taken an ox,or a sheep, or any such thing: which yet,when they are taken to support men, it isesteemed blameless. Or have I taken anass for mine own use, of any one, to hisgrief? Lay some one such crime to mycharge, now we are in your king's presence.But they unanimously exclaimed, that nosuch thing had been done by him; but thathe had presided over the nation, after aholy and righteous manner. When this testimony had been given himby them all, Samuel said, "Since you allgrant that you are not able to lay any illthing to my charge hitherto, come on now,and hearken while I speak with great free­dom to you. You have been guilty of greatimpiety against God, in asking you a king.It behoves you to remember, that our grand­father Jacob came down into Egypt byreason of a famine, with seventy souls onlyof our family, and that their posterity mul­tiplied there to many ten thousands, whom the Egyptians brought into slavery, andhard oppression; that God himself, uponthe prayers of our fathers, sent Mosesand Aaron, who were brethren, and gavethem power to deliver the multitude outof their distress, and this without a king.These brought us into this very land whichyou now possess. And when you enjoyedthese advantages from God, you betrayedhis worship, and religion: nay, when youwere brought under the hands of yourenemies, he delivered you, first by render­ing you superior to the Assyrians, andtheir forces; he then made you to overcomethe Ammonites, and Moabites, and last ofall the Philistines. And these things havebeen achieved under the conduct of Jeph-tha and Gideon. What madness thereforepossessed you to fly from God, and to desireto be under a king? yet have I ordainedhim for king whom he chose for you. How­ever, that I may make it plain to you thatGod is angry and displeased at your choiceof regal government, I will so dispose him,that he shall declare this very plainly toyou, by strange signals; for what none ofyou ever saw here before, I mean a* winterstorm in the midst of harvest, I will intreat ofGod, and will make it visible to you."f Nowas soon as he had said this, God gave suchstrange signals by thunder and lightning,and the descent of hail, as attested the truthof all the prophet had said ;$ insomuch thatthey were amazed and terrified, and con­fessed they had sinned, and had fallen intothat sin through ignorance; and besought theprophet, as one that was a tender and gentlefather, to render God so merciful as to for­give this sin, which they had added to thoseother offences whereby they had affrontedhim, and transgressed against him. So hepromised that he would beseech God, andpersuade him to forgive them their sins.However, he advised them to be righteous, * Mr. Reland observes here, and proves elsewhere, inhis note on III. 1. that although thunder and lightning withus happen usually in summer, yet in Palestine and Syriathey are chiefly confined to winter. Josephus takes noticeof the same thing again, of the War IV. 4. See alsoAntiq. II. 14. t It is an observation of St. Jerome, that this harvest inJudea began about the end of June, or the beginning ofJuly, in which season thunder and rain was never known,but only in the spring and autumn, the one called the former, and the other the latter rain: and therefore Samuel,by this preamble, hit not wheat harvest to-day? chap. xii.17. meant to signify the greatness of the miracle God wasgoing to work; that he could, in an instant, and in a time,when they least of all expected it, deprive them of all thecomforts of life, as they justly deserved, for their rejectinghim and his prophet, who was so powerful with bim, as, byhis prayers, to produce such wonders. Patrick's, CalmePs,and Le Clerr's Commentaries. BJ 1 Sam. xii. 18