OCR Output 274 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR. their lives, to the number of about five hundred, havingseized their forts upon the opposite shore, got possession oftheir own land, on that side the water. Putting out hence,they plundered the Corcyreans in the island, and made suchhavoc that a violent famine ensued in the city. They furthersent a deputation to Lacedaemon and Corinth, to negociatethe means of their restoration. But nothing of this kind suc­ceeding, they got together afterwards a body of auxiliariesand transports, and so passed over to the island of Corcyra,to the amount of six hundred men. Having now set fire totheir transports, to preclude every other expedient but gain­ing firm footing where now they were, they marched up tothe mountain Istone, and having fortified themselves there,made cruel work with those in the city, and were masters ofthe country round about. About the end of the same summer, the Athenians sentout twenty sail for Sicily, under the command of Lachesthe son of Melanopus and Charoeadas the son of Euphile-tus. A war was now on foot between the Syracusans andLeontines. Confederate with the Syracusans were, except­ing Camarina, all the Doric cities, which had formerly en­tered into alliance with the Lacedaemonians before this warbroke out, but had yet no where effectually joined them.With the Leontines were the Chalcidic cities, and Cama­rina. Of Italy, the Locrians sided with the Syracusans;and the Rhegians, from the motive of consanguinity, withthe Leontines. The allies therefore of the Leontines sentto Athens*, petitioning the Athenians in respect of their • One of the persons, or the chief, employed on this occasion, is said tobe Gorgias of Leontium, the first rhetorician of that or of any age. Whenhe had his audience from the Athenians to deliver the reasons of his em­bassy, he made a speech so smooth and flowing-, so new in the manner ofits turns, so pretty in the expression, and so nicely diversified by a changeand opposition of figures, that he won their hearts, and succeeded in hisnegociation. Our historian indeed, who takes no notice of Gorgias, givestwo political reasons just after the ready compliance of the Athenians on