OCR Output 286 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and implore thy pardon, do thou then pardonthem, and hear their prayer. For hereby allshall learn that thou wast pleased with thebuilding of this house; and that we are notourselves of an unsociable nature, nor behaveourselves like enemies to such as are not ofour own people; but are willing that thyassistance should be communicated to allmen in common; and that they may havethe enjoyment of thy benefits bestowed uponthem." When Solomon had said this, and had casthimself upon the ground, and worshipped along time, he arose up, and brought sacrificesto the altar; and when he had filled it withunblemished victims, he evidently discoveredthat God had with pleasure accepted of allthat he had sacrificed to him; for there camea fire running out of the air, and rushed withViolence upon the altar, in the sight of all;and caught hold of and consumed the sacri­fices. Now when this divine appearance wasseen, the people supposed it to be a demon­stration of God's abode in the temple, andwere pleased with it; and fell down upon theground and worshipped. Upon which theking began to bless God, and exhorted themultitude to do the same; as now havingsufficient indication of God's favourable dis­position to them; and to pray that they mightalways have the like indications from him,and that he would preserve in them a mindpure from all wickedness, in righteousnessand religious worship, and- that they mightcontinue in the observance of those preceptswhich God had given them by Moses; be­cause by that means the Hebrew nationwould be so happy, and indeed the mostblessed of all nations among all mankind.He exhorted them also to be mindful, that bywhat methods they had obtained their presentgood things, by the same they must preservethem to themselves, and make them greaterand more than they were at present. Forthat it was not sufficient for them to supposethey had received them on account of theirpiety and righteousness; but that they hadno other way of preserving them for the timeto come; for it is not so great a thing for mento acquire somewhat which they want, as topreserve what they have acquired, and to beguilty of no sin, whereby it may be hurt. So when the king had spoken thus, he dis­ solved the congregation; but not till he hadcompleted his oblations, both for himself, andfor the Hebrews; insomuch that he sacrificedtwenty-two thousand oxen; and a hundredand twenty thousand sheep. For then it wasthat the temple did first taste of the victims;and all the Hebrews with their wives andchildren feasted therein. Nay, besides this,the king then observed splendidly and mag­nificently the feast of tabernacles, before thetemple for fourteen days; and he then feastedtogether with all the people. When all these solemnities were performed,and nothing was omitted that concerned thedivine worship, the king dismissed them; andthey every one went to their own homes;giving thanks to the king for the care he hadtaken of them, and the works he had donefor them; and praying to God to preserveSolomon to be their king for a long time,they also took their journey home with re­joicing, and singing hymns to God. And in­deed the pleasure they enjoyed took awaythe sense of the pains they all underwent intheir journey home. So when they hadbrought the ark into the temple, and hadseen its greatness, and had been partakersof the sacrifices that had been offered, and ofthe festivals that had been solemnized, theyreturned to their own cities. But a dreamthat appeared to the king in his sleep in­formed him, that God had heard his prayers;and that he would not only preserve thetemple, but would always abide in it; that is,in case his posterity, and the whole multi­tude, would be righteous. And for himself,if he continued obedient to the admonitionsof his father, God would advance him to animmense degree of dignity and happiness; sothat then his posterity should be kings ofthat country of the tribe of Judah, for ever.But that still, if he should be a betrayer ofthe ordinances of the law, and forget them,and turn away to the worship of strange gods,he would cut him off by the roots; and wouldneither suffer any remainder of his family tocontinue, nor would watch over the peopleof Israel, nor preserve them any longer fromafflictions; but would utterly destroy themwith wars and misfortunes; would cast themout of the land which he had given theirfathers, and make them sojourners in strangelands; and deliver that temple which was