OCR Output 542 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mons; for he had no possible way to avoid it.So he left his *uncle Joseph procurator forhis government, and for the public affairs;and gave him a private charge, that ifAntony should kill him, he also should killMariamne immediately. For that he had atender affection for her, and was afraid ofthe injury that should be offered him, if,after his death, she for her beauty, should beengaged to some other man. But his inti­mation was nothing but this, at the bottom;that Antony had fallen in love with her,when he had formerly heard somewhat ofher beauty. So when Herod had given Jo­seph this charge, and had no sure hopesof escaping with his life; he went away toAntony. But as Joseph was administering the pub­lic affairs of the kingdom, and for that reasonwas very frequently with Mariamne; bothbecause his business required it, and becauseof the respects he ought to pay to the queen;he frequently entered into conversation aboutHerod's kindness, and great affection towardsher: and when the women, especially Alexan­dra, used to turn his discourses into raillery,Joseph was so over desirous to demonstratethe king's inclinations, that he proceeded sofar as to mention the charge he had received:and thence drew his demonstration, thpf He­rod was not able to live without her; and thatif he should come to any ill end^Jre could notendure a separation from heiyeven after hewas dead. The women, however, as wasnatural, did not take this to be an instanceof Herod's strong affection, but of his severeusage of them; that they could not escapedestruction, nor a tyrannical death, evenwhen he was dead himself. And this sayingof Joseph's was a foundation for the women'ssevere suspicions about him afterwards. At this time a report went about the cityJerusalem, among Herod's enemies, that An­tony had tortured Herod, and put him todeath. This report, as is natural, disturbedthose that were about the palace; but chieflythe women. Upon which Alexandra endea­voured to persuade Joseph to go out of thepalace, and flee away with them to the en­signs of the Roman legion; which then layencamped about the city, as a guard to the * Of the four Josephs in these histories, see the note kingdom, under the command of Julius. Forthat, by this means, if any disturbance shouldhappen about the palace, they should be ingreater security; as having the Romans fa­vourable to them. And that besides, theyhoped to obtain the highest authority, if An­tony did but once see Mariamne: by whosemeans they should recover the kingdom,and want nothing which was reasonable forthem to hope for, because of their royal ex­traction. But as they were in the midst of these de­liberations, letters were brought from Herod,about all his affairs; and proved contrary tothe report, and of what they before expected.For when he was come to Antony, he soonrecovered his interest with him, by the pre­sents which he had carried with him fromJerusalem: and he soon induced him, upondiscoursing with him, to leave off his indig­nation at him. So that Cleopatra's persua­sions had less force, than the arguments andpresents he brought, to regain his friendship.For Antony said, that it was not good to re­quire an account of a king, as to the affairsof his,jg^»«TmiTe«t. Far at this rate hecoiikMSe no king at all: but thai ihosewno had given him that authority ought topermit him to make use of it. He also toldCleopatra, that it would be best for her notto meddle with the acts of the king's govern­ment. Herod wrote an account of thesethings; and enlarged upon the other honourswhich he had received from Antony. Howhe sat by him at his hearing causes, andtook his diet with him every day; and thathe enjoyed those favours from him, notwith­standing the reproaches that Cleopatra soseverely laid against him, who, having agreat desire of his country, and earnestlyentreating Antony that the kingdom mightbe given to her, laboured with her utmostdiligence to remove him out of the way.But that he still found Antony just to him;and had no longer any apprehensions of hardtreatment from him. And that he was soonto set out upon his return, with a firmer addi­tional assurance of his favour to him, in hisreigning and managing public affairs; andthat there was no longer any hope for Cleo­patra's covetous temper; since Antony had On the War, Book I. chap. 28.