OCR Output 184 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. With these forces Cnemus began his march, withoutwaiting the arrival of the ships from Corinth, and passingthrough Argia, they destroyed Limnaea, a village unfortified.They march next for Stratus, the capital city of Acarnania,judging that if they first took this, all other places wouldreadily submit. The Acarnanians, finding a large armybroke in amongst them by land, and more enemies comingto attack them by sea, gave up all view of succouring oneanother, and stood separately on their own defence. Theysent information to Phormio, and requested him to come upto their relief. He sent them word, " he could not possibly" leave Naupactus without a guard, when a fleet was ready" to sail from Corinth." The Peloponnesians and theirallies, dividing themselves into three bodies, advanced to­wards the city of the Stratians, with a design to appear beforeit, and if it did not surrender at once, to storm it withoutloss of time. The Chaonians and the rest of the Barbariansmarched in the middle; to the right were the Leucadians,Anactorians, and their auxiliaries; to the left, Cnemus withhis Peloponnesians, and the Ambraciots ; each body at sogreat a distance from the rest, that sometimes they were outof one another's sight. The Grecians, in their march, keptfirm within ranks, and guarded all their motions, till theycame up to the spot fit for their encampment. But the Cha­onians, confident of their own bravery, and valuing them­selves as the most martial people in that part of the world,could not bear the delay of encamping, but, with the rest ofthe Barbarians, rushing eagerly forwards, thought to take thetown at a shout, and carry all the honour. The Stratiansfinding them thus advanced, thought, that could they masterthem, thus detached, the Grecians would become more averseto attack them. With this view they place ambuscades inthe approaches of the city; and when the enemy was near,rush up at once from the places of ambush, and out of thecity, charging them on all sides. The Chaonians are throwninto consternation, and many of them are slain. The rest