OCR Output AN. 44.] 511 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. "For their sins they would not be able to es­cape his hands." Which things will be re­lated in their proper places. But when Hyrcanus saw that the membersof the Sanhedrim were ready to pronouncethe sentence of death upon Herod, he put oft*the trial till another day, and sent privatelyto Herod, and advised him to flee out of thecity: for that by this means he might escape.So he retired to Damascus, as though he fledfrom the king. And when he had been withSextus Caesar, and had put his own affairs ina secure posture, he resolved to do thus; thatin case he were again summoned before theSanhedrim, to take his trial, he would notobey that summons. Hereupon the membersof the Sanhedrim were highly incensed, andendeavoured to persuade Hyrcanus, that allthese things were against him. This, indeed,he was not ignorant of: but his temper wasso unmanly, and so foolish, that he was ableto do nothing at all. But when Sextus hadmade Herod general of the army of Coelesy-ria, (for he sold him that post for money,)Hyrcanus was in fear lest Herod should makewar upon him. Nor was the effect of whathe feared long in coming upon him. ForHerod came, and brought an army alongwith him, to fight with Hyrcanus; as beingangry at the trial he had been summoned toundergo before the Sanhedrim. But hisfather Antipater and his brother Phasaelusmet him, and hindered him from assaultingJerusalem. They also pacified his vehementtemper, and persuaded him to do no rash ac­tion, but merely to affright them with threat-enings, and to proceed no farther against onewho had given him the dignity he had: theyalso desired him not only to be angry that hewas summoned, and obliged to come to histrial; but to remember withal, how he wasdismissed without condemnation; and how heought to give Hyrcanus thanks for the same.So they desired him to consider, that since itis God that turns the balance of war, thereis great Uncertainty in the issue of battle,and that therefore he ought not to expectthe victory, when he should fight with hisking, and him that had supported him, andbestowed many benefits upon him; and had * If we read here for a5tjXov, uncertainty, a5ixov, in­justice; as in the history Of the War, I. 10. the sensewill run very clear: otherwise the two accounts will done nothing very severe to him: for thathis accusation, which was derived from evilcounsellors, and not from himself, had ratherthe suspicion of some severity, than any thingreally severe in it. Accordingly Herod waspersuaded by these arguments: and believedthat it was sufficient for his future hopes tohave made a shew of his strength before thenation. And in this state were the affairs ofJudea at this time. CHAP. X. OF THE HONOURS THAT WERE PAID THE JEWS; AND THELEAGUES THAT WERE MADE BY THE ROMANS AND OTHERNATIONS, WITH THEM. NOW when Caesar was come to Rome, hewas ready to sail into Africa, to fightagainst Scipio and Cato; when Hyrcanussent ambassadors to him, desiring that hewould ratify that league of friendship andmutual alliance which was between them.And it seems necessary here to give an ac­count of all the honours that the Romans andtheir emperors have paid to our nation; andof the leagues of mutual assistance they havemade with it; that all the rest of mankindmay know what regard the kings of Asia andEurope have had to us; and that they havebeen abundantly satisfied of our courage andfidelity. For whereas many will not believewhat hath been written about us, by the Per­sians and Macedonians, because those writ­ings are not every where to be met with, nordo lie in public places; but among ourselves,and certain other barbarous nations; whilethere is no contradiction to be made againstthe decrees of the Romans; for they are laidup in the public places of the cities, and areextant still in the capitol, and engraven uponpillars of brass. Nay, besides this, JuliusCaesar made a pillar of brass for the Jews atAlexandria, and declared publicly that theywere citizens of Alexandria. Out of theseevidences will I demonstrate what I say; andwill now set down the decrees made both bythe senate, and by Julius Caesar, which relate to Hyrcanus, and to our nation. "Caius Julius Caesar, imperator, and high-priest, and dictator the second time, to the be somewhat different; and tne sense of the placemore doubtful.