OCR Output 178 THE HELOPONNESIAN WAS. " blessings you sent down upon their prayers overcame the" Medes, and which you then made that fortunate field" whereon the arms of Greece were crowned with victory—" and that whatever we shall here undertake, our every step" shall be agreeable to justice. We have offered many ho-" nourable conditions to them, which are all rejected." Grant therefore our supplications, that the first trans-" gressors of justice may receive their punishment, and that" those who fight with equity may obtain revenge." Afterthis solemn address to the Gods, he roused up his army intoaction. He first of all formed an inclosure round about themwith the trees they had felled, so that no one could get outof the city. In the next place, they raised a mount ofearth before the place, hoping that it could not long holdout a siege against the efforts of so large an army. Havingfelled a quantity of timber on mount Cithaeron, with it theyframed the mount on either side, that thus cased it mightperform the service of a wall, and that the earth might bekept from mouldering away too fast. Upon it they heapeda quantity of matter, both stones and earth, and whateverelse would cement together and increase the bulk. Thiswork employed them for seventy days and nights withoutintermission, all being alternately employed in it, so that onepart of the army was carrying it on, whilst the other tookthe necessary refreshments of food and sleep. Those Lace­daemonians who had the command over the hired troops ofthe other States, had the care of the work, and obliged themall to assist in carrying it on. The Plataeans, seeing thismount raised to a great height, built a counterwork of wood,close to that part of the city-wall against which this mountof earth was thrown up, and strengthened the inside of itwith bricks, which they got for this use by pulling down theadjacent houses. The wooden case was designed to keep itfirm together, and prevent the whole pile from being weak­ened by its height. They farther covered it over with