OCR Output AN. 166.] 443 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. own children, had frequently conquered manythousands. By this speech he induced hismen to contemn the multitude of the enemy,and to tall upon Seron. And upon joiningbattle with him, he defeated the Syrians; andwhen their general fell among the rest, theyall ran away with speed; as thinking that tobe their best way of escaping. So he pur­sued them into the plain, and slew abouteight hundred of the enemy; but the rest es­caped to the region which lay near to the sea. When king Antiochus heard of these things,he was very angry at what had happened.So he assembled all his own army;* withmany mercenaries whom he had hired fromthe islands, and took them with him, andprepared to break into Judea, about the be­ginning of the spring. But upon musteringhis soldiers, he perceived that his treasureswere deficient, and there was a want ofmoney in them; for all the taxes were notpaid, by reason of the seditions there hadbeen among the nations; he having been somagnanimous and so liberal, that what hehad was not sufficient for him. He there­fore resolved first to go into Persia, and col­lect the taxes of that country. Hereupon heleft one Lysias, who was in great repute withhim, governor of the kingdom; as far as thebounds of Egypt, and of the lower Asia, andreaching from the river Euphrates; and com­mitted to him a certain part of his forces,and of his elephants; and charged him tobring up his son Antiochus with all possiblecare, until he came back; and that he shouldconquer Judea, and take its inhabitants forslaves, and utterly destroy Jerusalem, andabolish the whole nation. And when kingAntiochus had given these things in chargeto Lysias, he went into Persia, and in thehundred and forty-seventh year he passedover Euphrates, and went up to the superiorprovinces. Upon this Lysias chose Ptolemy, the sonof Dorymenes, and Nicanor, and Gorgias,very potent men among the king's friends;and delivered to them forty thousand footsoldiers, and seven thousand horsemen; andsent them against Judea. Accordingly, theycame as far as the city Emmaus, and pitchedtheir camp in the plain country. There came also to them auxiliaries out of Syria,and the country round about; as also manyof the runagate Jews. And besides thesecame some merchants, to buy those thatshould be carried captives; (having bondswith them, to bind those that should be madeprisoners;) with that silver and gold whichthey were to pay for their price. And whenJudas saw their camp, and how numerous theirenemies were, he persuaded his own soldiersto be of good courage; and exhorted them toplace their hopes of victory in God; and tomake supplication to him, according to thecustom of their country, clothed in sackcloth;and to shew what was their usual habit ofsupplication in the greatest dangers; andthereby to prevail with God to grant themthe victory over their enemies. So he setthem in the ancient order of battle used bytheir forefathers; under their captains ofthousands, and other officers; and dismissedsuch as were newly married, as well as thosethat had newly gained possessions; that theymight not fight in a cowardly manner, out ofan inordinate love of life, in order to enjoythose blessings. When he had thus disposedhis soldiers, he encouraged them to fight bythe following speech: "O my fellow-soldiers,no other time remains more opportune thanthe present for courage and contempt ofdanger; for if you fight manfully, you mayrecover your liberty, which, as it is a thingof itself agreeable to all men, so it proves tobe to us much more desirable, by its affordingus the liberty of worshipping God. You arein such circumstances at present, that youmust either recover that liberty, and so re­gain a happy and blessed way of living, whichis according to our laws, and the customs ofour country; or submit to the most oppro­brious sufferings; nor will any seed of yournation remain, if you be beaten in this battle.Fight therefore manfully, and suppose thatyou must die though you do not fight. But be­lieve, that besides such glorious rewards asthose of the liberty of your country, of yourlaws, and of your religion, you shall obtaineverlasting glory. Prepare yourselves there­fore, and put yourselves into such a posture,that you be ready to fight with the enemy, assoon as it is day to-morrow morning.'t * 1 Mace. iii. 27.voL. I.—NOS. 37 & 38. t 1 Mace. iii. 58.4C