OCR Output 134 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. be this. He presumed that the Athenians, who flourished at that time in a numerous youth, and who never before hadbeen so well prepared for war, would probably march outagainst him, and would not sit quiet whilst their lands wereravaged before their eyes. But when he had advanced toEleusis and the plain of Thriasia without any resistance, hehad a mind to try whether laying siege to Acharnae wouldprovoke them to come out. This place seemed further tohim a convenient spot for a long encampment. Besides, hecould not persuade himself, that the Acharnians, so consi­derable a body amongst the citizens of Athens (for threethousand of them now wore the heavy armour), could seewith patience their own properties ruined by hostile devasta­tion, without inciting all their fellow-citizens to rush out tobattle. And if the Athenians would not come out againstthem this campaign, he might another campaign with greatersecurity extend his devastation even to the very walls ofAthens. He thought it not likely that the Acharnians, whenall their lands had been ruined in this manner, would chear-fully run into hazards to prevent the losses of others, andthat hence much dissention might be kindled up* amongst • Aristophanes wrote his comedy of The Acharnians upon this plan, andabundantly ridiculed the public conduct as injurious to the citizens of Athens.Though it was not brought upon the stage till the sixth year of the war,it amply shews us, how the Acharnians resented their being thus exposedto the ravage of the enemy; and how the wits, that lived upon the publicpassions, helped still more to exasperate them, and misrepresented themeasures of the ablest politicians, and who perfectly well understood andaimed at the general welfare of the whole community, as weak, corrupt,and mischievous. No care to redress, and no commiseration for theAcharnians, as Dicmopolia hints, who was one of that borough " And4' what! it will be said, Can this possibly be helped > Be helped, do you"say? why not ! Tell me, if you can. Suppose only, that a Lacedxmo-"nian had stood across in his skiff to Seriphus, and after killing a favour "ite lap-dog got off again safe : Would ye now in this case sit still! " Quite the contrary. You would immediately be putting out to sea with" three hundred sail of ships: Athens would roar with the tumult of" soldiers ; the captains of vessels would be shouting, pay delivering, and"our gold Bying about- What a bustle would there be in the long portico !" what distributing of provisions, skins, thongs, casks full of olives, onions in