OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 81 one point intended by the expedition, but were obliged towithdraw, and carry Orestes back again with them, totallyunsuccessful. Not long after this, a thousand Athenians going on boardtheir ships which lay at Pegae, for Pegae was now in theirpossession, steered away against Sicyon, under the commandof Pericles* the son of Xantippus. They made a descent,and in a battle defeated those of the Sicyonians, who endea­voured to make head against them. From thence theystrengthened themselves by taking in some Achaeans; andstretching across the gulph, landed in a district of Acarnania,and laid siege to Oenias ; yet unable to carry it, they soonquitted, and withdrew to their own homes. Three years after this a peace to continue for five yearswas clapped up between the Peloponnesians and Athenians.Upon this, the Athenians, now at leisure from any war inGreece, engaged in an expedition against Cyprus, with a fleetof two hundred ships of their own and allies, commanded byCimon. Sixty of these were afterwards detached to Egypt, atthe request of Amyrtaeus king of the fenny part; but the restof them blocked up Citium. Yet, by the death of Cimon, anda violent famine, they were compelled to quit the blockade of • Here the name of Pericles first occurs, and a hint should be given tothose who are not well acquainted with him to mark a person that was atrue patriot, a consummate statesman, a great general, and a most sublimespeaker. He was born of one of the most illustrious families in Athens.He was educated in the best manner, and learned his philosophy or theknowledge of nature from Anaxagoras, whose doctrines agreed so littlewith the superstitious practices and tempers of the Athenians, that the mas­ter and all his disciples were charged with atheism, for which many ofthem were prosecuted, and the divine Socrates most injuriously put todeath. He angaged early in public affairs, gained the ascendant over aUbis competitors, became at length, and continued to his death, master of theaffections and liberties too of the Athenian people, and though master, yetguardian and increaser of the latter. In short, according to writer* of thebest authority and the gravest historians, he was one of the most able andmost disinterested ministers that Athens ever had, Athens the most demo-cratical state that ever existed, so fertile in every thing great and glorious,and so over-run at the same time with faction, licentiousness, and wild tu­multuary caprice.