OCR Output 252 livY. nian ships which had been dispersed were taken bythe Roman fleet. Such were the occurrences by landand sea, on that side of Italy nearest to the Alps. Theconsul Cneius Servilius performed nothing memo­rable in Etruria, or in Gaul (for he bad advanced intothat country), except that he rescued from slavery,which they had endured for sixteen years, his father,Cains Servilius, and his uncle Caius Lutatius, whohad been taken by the Boians at the village of Tane-tum. He returned to Rome accompanied by these oneach side of him, distinguished rather by family-badges than public services. It was proposed to thepeople, that ' Cneius Servilius should not be subjectto penalty, for having, contrary to the laws, duringthe life of his father (a circumstance of which he wasat that time ignorant), and who sat in the curule chair,accepted the offices of tribune of the commons, andplebeian edile;' this being admitted, he returned tohis province. Consentia, Uffugum, Vergae, Besidiae,Hetriculum, Sypheum, Argentanum, Clampetia, andmany other small states, perceiving that the Cartha­ginians grew languid in their operations, came over toCneius Servilius the consul, then in Bruttium; andwho had fought a battle with Hannibal in the districtof Croton, of which we have no clear account. Va­lerius Autias says that five thousand of the enemywere slain. This is a circumstance of such impor­tance, that either it must be an impudent fiction, orthey were guilty of great negligence who omittedmentioning it. It is certain that Hannibal made nofarther efforts in Italy, for deputies came to him fromCarthage, recalling him to Africa, nearly at the sametime with Mago. 20. Hannibal is said to have been thrown into themost violent agitation, and scarcely to have refrainedfrom shedding tears, on hearing the words of the de­puties. When they had delivered the orders whichthey had in charge, he said,—' Now indeed, theyrecall me, not in ambiguous terms, but openly, whohave, for a long time past, been dragging me home,