OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 729 IL, rcoGuai or the City nix TH2 Timkor Stir, i - Tulul's. Ve txn only pretend to give a probable accountthe progiess of the city under tlie first five kings.a» statements on the subject in ancient authors are*»nrent, though the contradiction is often rather.uarast than real. In the course of his reign Rc-uJas added to his original city on the Palatine, the-lice hill, then called Sutumius, the Caeliun,. j-..<->! i; .tniuotulanus, and the Aveiitioe, li;it: tu! distinguish the nature of these additions.*yei«a (ii. 37) represent* the Capitoline andtnMae m enclosed by Romulus with a strong for-T~»t»i consisting of a ditch and palisades, chiefly asfur herdsmen and their flocks, and notwith a wall, like the i'alatine. Vetat Trident from the account of the attack by tlx! M on the Capitoline (Liv. i. 11) that it mustit been regularly fortified, and have had a gate.B '~!aa had already marked it out as the arx or ci-M of has future city; and when he had defeated ther t.-uoaes and slain their king, he carried thitheri ini.e^stesl the first spolia opima at an oak-treea! sacred by the shepherds, but which now becamefJM of the temple of Jupiter Feretrius (lb. c. 10).■ a Lvi telU us that this was the first templetra:«i at Bume, he probably means with theixk of those which were usually erected at thei"ir^ of* every city. That the Capitoline wasrjtfi more important hill in the time of Romulus.t tae Arentine and Caelian is also shown by the: <4 kia opening upon it the asylum for slaves andcures, m order to increase the population of hisThai aaylum was situated somewhere in the■ n t«'M eminences of the Capitoline, ti» akc retained till a late period the name of!>r Jaoa locum" (lb. c. 10; Dionys. ii. 15; Strab.JO Pmt- Rom*. 9; Ov. Fast. iii. 431, &c).[":» Capitoline hill, or Mons Satuniius, appears• tj hare been a real addition to the Romuleanthe Arentine seems to have remainedt fi» the time of Ancus Martius a mere rudelySmc eaclramre for the protection of the shepherds,-as etyrraologiea, all perhaps equally unaatis-ary, Lav* been invented for the name of Aven-"ae legend derived it from an Alban kingaCad, who waul buried on the hill (Lir. i. 3;r L. L. w. § 43. MD11.; Paul. Diac. p. 19, Mull.),bar frjrn a descendant of Hercules, mentioned""j-a (Jest. wii. 656). Servius in his coinmen- v. tits | f- makes Aventinus a king of the rrjmm, bwl avdds from Varro that the Arentineaa^rjed by Komulu* to the Sabiues. who namedS- :]m Arens, one of tlieir rivers. This account.- fxiad in the remains which wo possess of>s vha, bowev er (i. e ), adds a few more ety-ps ia that already given. One of them, taken, Xarrinaa, derives the name of the hill from the, (tics) that resorted thither from the Tiber, to: V_---l also terms to allude (Am. riit. 233).h.™ehf th;"fc« that it was so called "ab. • ore^stLse. bt-in^ formerly separated from ther kill* by a> marah or lake, it was necessary toj t ob boata: whilst others derived the nameiirmmxa hofninum," because, having upon itof [Havna. common to all the Latin people,— s phacc of great resort. But these various, -r— only prove that nothing certain wasr». i. ferpooderance of authority tends to show that the Caelian hill was also colonised in the time ofRomulus. Caelius Vibennus, or Carles Vibenna, anEtruscan general who came to the assistance of Ro­mulus against Tatius and the Sabines, had this hillassigned to him and settled upon it with his army;whence it derived its name of " Caelius," it havingbeen previously called Querquetulanus from its woodsof oak. (Varr. L. L. v. § 46, Miill.; Dionys. ii. 36;Paul. Diac. p. 44, Miill.) The traditions respectingthe incorporation of this hill are, however, very va­rious. Some authors relate that it was added byTullus Hostilius (Liv. i. 30; Eutrop. i. 4; Aur.Vict Vir. 111. 4). others by Ancus Martius (Cic.Rep. ii. 18; Strab. v. p. 234); whilst some, again,place the arrival of Caeles as low down as the reij:nof Tarquinitis Priscus. (Tac..inn. iv. 65; Festus,p. 355, MUI1.) The last account probably arosefrom some confusion between the arrival of the Tus­cans under Romulns, and a subsequent one underthe Tuscan king Tarquinius. But the sacred booksrelating to the Argive chapels established by Numamention the hill under the name of Caelius (Varr.ib. § 47), and it therefore seems probable that thearrival of Vibenna must be placed under Romulus.This Tuscan settlement appears, however, not to havebeen permanent. After the death of their leader aportion of his followers incurred the suspicion of theRomans, and were removed from the hill to a lessdefensible position on the plain, apparently betweenthe Palatine and Capitoline, where they founded theVicus Tuscus; whilst the remainder were transferredto the adjoining hill called Caeliulus (Varr. ib. §46). Whence also Propertius:— "Et tu, Roma, meis tribuisti pracmia TuscisUude hodie vicus nomina Tuscus habet;Tempore quo sociis venit Lyconiedius armis,Atquo Sabina feri contudit arma Tati."— (iv. 2. 49.) Here the Tuscan general is named Lycomedius,which seems to be derived from Lucumo, the namegiven to him by Dionysins (ii. 42, 43), and whichwas probably only an appellative for an Etruscanprince. The hill having been vacated by this re­moval of the Tuscans, was again colonised under asubsequent king, which in some degree reconciles theconflicting accounts ; but all we shall say furtherabout it at present is, that in the reign of Tiberiusan attempt was made to change its name again, andto call it Mons Augustus, either because Tiberiushad laid out a great deal of money there in repairingthe damage occasioned by a fire, or from a decree ofthe senate, which appointed that name to be usedbecause a statue of Tiberius had been saved from theflames. (Tac. Ann. iv. 64; Suet. Tib. 48.) Butthis name never came into common use. Legend of Tarpeia.—Pvrta Janualit and Templeof Janus.—The story of Tarjeia involves two or threejoints of topographical interest. It shows that theCapitoline hill was regularly fortified, and had a gate.The deed of Tarpeia, whether treacherous or patri­otic, for there are two versions of her history, occa­sioned a change in the name of the hill. It hadpreviously been called Mons Satumius, from Saturn,to whom it was sacred (Fest. p. 322); and therewas a tradilion that some Eleans, who had obtainedtheir dismissal from the army of Hercules on hisreturn from his westernexpedition, had been attractedto settle upon it by the resemblance of its name tothat of Kpiii'iof, a mountain of tlieir own country.(Dionys. i. 34.) After the foundation of the Copilol