OCR Output A. D.1G.] 89 op TAcrrrs the vessels was the only expedient left : and acord-ingly horses, beasts of burden, arms, and baggage,were thrown overboard. XXIV. The storms in other seas are inconsider­able, when compared to the fury of a northern tem­pest. The ocean in those parts is more boisterousthan in any other of the known world, and the rigourof Germany surpasses that of any other climate.The danger of the fleet was, by consequence, morealarming; the magnitude, as well as the novelty ofthe mischief, exceeding any former voyage, under­taken by the Romans. No friendly shore at hand;every coast in the possession of savage enemies; thesea of a depth incredible; vast in circumference, and,according to the received opinion, without any nationtowards the north, or any continent to fix its boun­dary. A number of ships went to the bottom; manywere wrecked on distant islands, secluded from thecommerce of man. The soldiers who were cast onshore, perished by famine, or prolonged a wretchedexistence by feeding on the carcases of horses thrown, up by the sea. The vessel in which Germanicus sailed, was drivenfar from the fleet, to the coast inhabited by the Chau- ,cians. There the disconsolate prince passed wholedays and nights among pointed rocks, wandering onthe prominent beach, his eyes fixed on the brawlingdeep, and. his heart imputing to himself the wholecalamity. It was with difficulty that his friends re­strained him from burying himself in the same wavesthat swallowed up so many gallant soldiers. Atlength the storm abated. The wind and the tide;serving at once, some of the ships were seen makingto the,land, all in a shattered condition, few oars re­maining, and the clothes of the men stretched outfor sails. The crippled veseels were drawn in towby such as were less disabled: Germanicus refittedthe fleet with all possible expedition: and, as soon asmight be, ordered some of the ships to coast along theislands, in search of the soldiers who had been castaway. By this diligence many were restored to theirfriends. The Angrivarians, lately reduced to suh- H2