OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 11 ing persons were then elected pretors: Lucius VeturiusPhilo, Titus Quintius Crispinus, Caius Hostilius Tu-bulus, Caius Arunculeius. As soon as the appoint­ment of magistrates for the year was finished, QuintusFulvius resigned the dictatorship. Towards the endof this summer a Carthaginian fleet of forty ships,under the command of Hamilcar, sailed over to Sar­dinia, and committed great depredations in the dis­trict of Olbia. Afterwards, on the pretor PubliusManlius Vulso appearing there with an army, theyproceeded to the other side of the island, and ravagedthe lands of Caralita, from whence they returned withbooty of all kinds to Africa. Several Roman priestsdied this year, and others were substituted in theirplaces. Caius Servilius was made a pontiff, in theroom of Titus Otacilius Crassus; Tiberius Sempro-nius Longus, son of Tiberius, an augur, in the room ofOtacilius Crassus; and the same Tiberius Sempronius,a decemvir for directing religious rites, in the room ofTiberius Sempronius Longus, son of Caius. MarcusMarcius, king in religious matters, and Marcus jEmi-lius Papus, chief curio, died, but their places werenot filled up during this year. Lucius Veturius Philo,and Publius Licinius Crassus, chief pontiff, were cre­ated censors for the year. Licinius Crassus had not,before this appointment, been either consul or pretor,but was advanced, at one step, from the edileship tothe censorship. However, these censors neither chosea senate, nor transacted any public business, beingprevented by the death of Lucius Veturius, on whichLicinius abdicated the office. The curule ediles, Lu­cius Veturius and Publius Licinius Varus, repeatedthe exhibition of the Roman games once. The plebeianediles, Quintus Catius and Lucius Porcius Licinius,out of the money accruing from fines, erected brazenstatues in the temple of Ceres, and exhibited gameswith much magnificence and splendor, considering thecircumstances of those times. , 7. At the end of the year, Caius Laelius, Scipio'slieutenant-general, on the thirty-fourth day after he