OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the well-known plenty of Egypt; the same country, asmall and populous tract, was still capable of exporting,each year, two hundred and sixty thousand quarters ofwheat for the use of Constantinople ;k and the capital ofJustinian was supplied with the manufactures of Sidon,fifteen centuries after they had been celebrated in thepoems of Homer.1 The annual powers of vegetation,instead of being exhausted by two thousand harvests,were renewed and invigorated by skilful husbandry, richmanure, and seasonable repose. The breed of domesticanimals was infinitely multiplied. Plantations, buildings,and the instruments of labour and luxury, which are moredurable than the term of human life, were accumulatedby the care of successive generations. Tradition pre­served, and experience simplified, the humble practice ofthe arts; society was enriched by the division of labourand the facility of exchange; and every Roman waslodged, clothed, and subsisted, by the industry of a thou­sand hands. The invention of the loom and distaff hasbeen piously ascribed to the gods. In every age, a va­riety of animal and vegetable productions, hair, skins,wool, flax, cotton, and at length silk, have been skilfullymanufactured to hide or adorn the human body; theywere stained with an infusion of permanent colours; andthe pencil was successfully employed to improve thelabours of the loom. In the choice of those colours,"'which imitate the beauties of nature, the freedom oftaste and fashion was indulged; but the deep purple," 1 Eight millions of Roman modii, besides a contribution of eighty thousand aurafor the expenses of water-carriage, from which the subject was graciously excused.See the thirteenth edict. of Justinian: the numbers are checked and verified by theagreement of the Greek and Latin texts. 1 Homer's Iliad, 6. 289. These veils, irfTTXoi TraplroiiuXoi, were the work of theSidonian women. But this passage is more honourable to the manufactures than tothe navigation of Phoenicia, from whence they had been imported to Troy in Phrygianbottoms. m See in Ovid (de Arte Amandi, .". 269, &c.) a poetical list of twelve coloursborrowed from flowers, the elements, &c. But it is almost impossible to discrimi­nate by words all the nice and various shades both of art and nature. ° By the discovery of cochineat, &c. we far surpass the colours of antiquity.Their royal purple had a strong smell, and a dark cast as deep as bull's blood.—Ob-scuritas rubens (says Cassiodorius, Var. 1. 2.) nigredo sanguinea. The presidentGoguet (Origine des Loix et des Arts, part2. lib. 2. c. 2. p. 184—21 j.) will amuss