OCR Output 130 DECLINE AND FALL [CftAP. XLI. mable moments in the discharge of a vain, though pious,duty to the dead. While his spirit was broken by thismournful office, he heard the trumpet of Belisarius, who,leaving Antonina and his infantry in the camp, pressedforwards with his guards and the remainder of the cavalryto rally his flying troops, and to restore the fortune ofthe day. Much room could not be found in this disor­derly battle for the talents of a general; but the kingfled before the hero; and the Vandals, accustomed onlyto a Moorish enemy, were incapable of withstanding thearms and discipline of the Romans. Gelimer retiredwith hasty steps towards the desert of Numidia; but hehad soon the consolation of learning, that his private or­ders for the execution of Hilderic and his captive friendshad been faithfully obeyed. The tyrant's revenge wasuseful only to his enemies. The death of a lawful princeexcited the compassion of his people; his life might haveperplexed the victorious Romans; and the lieutenant ofJustinian, by a crime of which he was innocent, was re­lieved from the painful alternative of forfeiting his ho­nour or relinquishing his conquests.Redaction As soon as the tumult had subsided, the several partsa. d' 533!' of the army informed each other of the accidents of theSept. 10. . ancj Be]isarjus pitched his camp on the field of vic­tory, to which the tenth mile-stone from Carthage hadapplied the Latin appellation of decimus. From a wisesuspicion of the stratagems and resources of the Vandals,he marched the next day in order of battle, halted in theevening before the gates of Carthage, and allowed anight of repose, that he might not, in darkness and dis­order, expose the city to the license of the soldiers, orthe soldiers themselves to the secret ambush of the city.But as the fears of Belisarius were the result of calm andintrepid reason, he was soon satisfied that he might con­fide, without danger, in the peaceful and friendly aspectof the capital. Carthage blazed with innumerabletorches, the signals of the public joy the chain was^re-