OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 523 of the nones of July, with that eagerness that they would notstay for his son Titus, who was then on the road, returningout of Syria, chap, lxxix. Vespasian delivered over thestrongest part of his forces to Titus, to enable him to finishwhat remained of the Jewish war. Hist, book iv. chap. li. During those months in which Vespasian continued atAlexandria, waiting for the usual set time of the summergales of wind, and staid for settled fair weather at sea, manymiraculous events happened, by which the good-will ofheaven, and a kind of inclination of the Deity in his favorwas declared. A certain man of the vulgar sort at Alexandria, wellknown for the decay of his eyes, kneeled down by him, andgroaned, and begged of him the cure of his blindness, as bythe admonition of Serapis, that God which this superstitiousnation worships above others. He also, desired that theemperor would be pleased to put some of his spittle upon theballs of his eyes. Another infirm man there, who was lameof his hand, prayed Coesar, as by the same god's suggestion,to tread upon him with his foot. Vespasian at first beganto laugh at them, and to reject them; and when they wereinstant with him, he sometimes feared he should have thereputation of a vain person, and sometimes upon the solicita­tion of the infirm, ho flattered himself, and others flatteredhim, with the hopes of succeeding. At last he ordered thephysicians to give their opinion, whether this sort of blindnessand lameness were curable by the art of man or not ? Thephysicians answered uncertainly, that the one had not hisvisual faculty utterly destroyed, and that it might be restored,if the obstacles were removed; that the other's limbs weredisordered, but if a healing virtue were made use of, they werecapable of being made whole. Perhaps, said they, the godsare willing to assist, and that the emperor is chosen by divine Josephus implies, and the place where now Vespasian was, which was noother than Judea, requires also, though the inauguration day might becelebrated afterward from his first proclamation at the great city Alexandria,only then the nones or ides in Tacitus and Suetonius must be of June, andnot of July.