OCR Output 298. TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111 posed a bill, importing, " That whoever should here-"after hold the Comitia for electing tribes, should not"dissolve the assembly, till the number of ten tribunes"be completed by the votes of the tribunes." He passedhis whole year in crossing the senate, which procuredhim the title of crabbed. Then M. Geganius Macerinus, and C. Julius succeed­ed to the consulate. They quelled the cabals of the tri-'bufies, which they were beginning to form against theyoung Patricians, without inveighing against the excessof their power, or sinking below the dignity of their or­der. They kept the people quiet, by decreeing leviesfor the war against the jEqui and Volsci, which prevent­ed any sedition from taking place, assuring them, thatthe only way to secure peace abroad, was to be quiet athome; for nothing contributed so much to raise thespirits of foreign nations, as domestic broils. Thus, -by their care to secure peace abroad, they hadthe good fortune to maintain tranquillity at home; thoughthe one order never failed to take the advantage of themoderation of the other. When the young Patriciansbegan to be petulant, the people were giving no trouble.When the tribunes began to support the weakest, theywere little regarded at first, and at last, did not them­selves escape without insults, especially about the closeof the year: when, during the meetings of the nobility,licentiousness prevails, and the exercise of magisterialauthority generally becomes more languid. The people's whole hopes centered in choosing tribuneslike Iciiius; for, during the two last years their tribuneswere no more than a name. The elder senators, on theirpart, were not insensible, that their youth. were turbu­lent, ami carried things too far; but if the bounds of mo­deration were to be exceeded^ they thought it better tohave pride and spirit on their side, than on 'that of theopposition. So difficult is it to act with moderation insupporting liberty, as every one, under pretence of level­ling, raises himself in proportion, as he depresses another.While we endeavour to have~nothingfb apprehend fromothers, we render ourselves terrible; to avoid oppression,we oppress, as if we could not help doing, or sufferinginjustice.