OCR Output 22 ; LIVY. he could retreat for safety, he would not have even apretence for staying longer in Italy. He likewise sentan express to Rhegium, to the commander of the bodyof troops, which the consul Laevinus had placed there,to act against the Bruttians, and which consisted ofeight thousand men, all accustomed to live by plunder,the greater part of whom had been brought out ofSicily from Agathyrna, as was mentioned above. Tothese were joined many natives of the country, whodeserted from the Bruttians, equally daring, and underequal necessity to dare every thing. He ordered thisband to be led, first, to ravage the lands of Bruttium,and afterwards to besiege the city of Caulon. Theseorders they executed, not only with diligence but withavidity; and after plundering the country, and dis­persing the inhabitants, attacked the city with theirutmost vigor. Marcellus, incited by his colleague'sletter, and also by an opinion which he had himselfconceived, that he was the only Roman general able tocope with Hannibal, quitted his winter-quarters assoon as forage could be found, and met him at Canu-sium. The Carthaginian was at this time employed inendeavoring to entice the Canusians to a revolt, but onhearing of Marcellus' approach, he decamped and re­tired. The country was open, affording no cover foran ambuscade, for which reason he resolved to drawback into more woody tracts. Marcellus pressed closeon his steps, encamped within view of him, and, assoon as the trenches were finished, drew out his legionsand offered battle. Hannibal sent out single troops ofcavalry, and the light spearmen from his infantry, toskirmish with the enemy, but did not think it advisableto risk the issue of a general engagement. He washowever drawn into a contest of that sort which hewished to avoid: for although, by marching away inthe night, he gained some ground of the enemy, yetMarcellus overtook him in an open country, and, ashe was forming his camp, put a stop to his works, byattacking the workmen on all sides. In consequenceof this a pitched battle ensued, in which all the forces