OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 103 and a third platform, spacious and secure, was raised oftthe summit of the towers. The exterior wall appearsto have been less lofty, but more solid; and each towerwas protected by a quadrangular bulwark. A hard rockysoil resisted the tools of the miners, and on the south­east where the ground was more tractable, their approachwas retarded by a new work, which advanced in theshape of a half-moon. The double and treble ditche$were filled with a stream of water; and in the manage-,ment of the river, the most skilful labour was employedto supply the inhabitants, to distress the besiegers, andto prevent the mischiefs of a natural or artificial inunda­tion. Dara continued more than sixty years to fulfil thewishes of its founders, and to provoke the jealousy ofthe Persians, who incessantly complained, that this im­pregnable fortress had been constructed in manifest vio­lation of the treaty of peace between the two empires. Between the Euxine and the Caspian, the countries of The cM-Cholchos, Iberia, and Albania, are intersected in every iberiandirection by the branches of mount Caucasus; and the 8ates'two principal gates, or passes, from north to south, havebeen frequently confounded in the geography both ofthe ancients and moderns. The name of Caspian orAlbanian gates, is properly applied to Derbend," whichoccupies a short declivity between the mountains andthe sea; the city, if we give credit to local tradition, hadbeen founded by the Greeks; and this dangerous en-'trance was fortified by the kings of Persia with a mole,double walls, and doors of iron. The Iberian gates" areformed by a narrow passage of six miles in mount Cau­casus, which opens from the northern side of Iberia orGeorgia, into the plain that reaches to the Tanais and 1 For the city and pass of Derbend, see d'Herbelot, (Bihliot. Orient. p. 157. 291.807.) Petite de la Croix, (Hist, de Gengiscan, lib. 4. c. 9.) Histoire Genealogiqaede Tatars, (tom. i. p. 120.) Olesrius, (Voyage en Perse, p. 1039—1041.) and Cor-■eille le Brune, (Voyages, tom. i. p. 146,147.) his view may be compared with theplan of Olearius, who judges the wall to be of shells and gravel hardened by time. 1 Procopius, though with some confusion, always denominates them Caspian.(Persic. lib. 1. c. 10.) The pass is now styled Tatartopa, the Tartar-gates. (d'An-ville, Geographie Ancienne, tom. 2. p. 119, 120.)