OCR Output T1RST VOLUME. 291 That is, " Typhon is the cause of the violent motion of all-varioussubterranean vapours and waters, and the other elements. ButÆchidna is an avenging cause, and the punisher of rational andirrational souls; on which account her upper parts are those of avirgin, and her lower parts resemble those of a serpent. AndPython is the guardian of the whole of prophetic exhalation; or,we may fay with greater propriety, that he is the cause of the dis­order and obstruction about exhalations of this kind." As theprophetic power therefore proceeds originally from Apollo, theopposition of energy between Apollo and Python, and the domi-nion of that of the former over that of the latter, gave rife to thefable mentioned in this place by Paufanias. Diana too may besaid to have assisted Apollo in slaying Python, in consequence ofthe wonderful union between these two divinities. Page isi t. For Hesiodfays'] In hit Works and Days, lib. i.v. 263. Page 162. Mercury Forenfis.~\ Mercury was thus denomi­nated as presiding over affairs of law: and the propriety of thisappellation will be evident from considering that Mercury is thesource of gymnastic, music, and reasoning; that reasoning is an intcl-IcBual operation, and that law, as Plato (De Legibus) beauti­fully observes, is nv itetfu-n, the distribution os intellect. For thefake of the liberal reader, I (hall further observe concerning Mer«cury, that he is the source os invention: and hence he is said to bethe son of Maia; because search, which is implied by Maia, leadsinvention into light. He bestows too mathests on fouls, by un­folding the will of his father Jupiter; and this he accomplices atthe angel or messenger of Jupiter. Proclus in MS. Comment. .in Aleibiad. observes, "that be is the inspective guardian ofgymnastic exercises; and hence hermtc, or carved statuts of Mer­cury, were placed in the Palæstra: of music, and hence he is ho­noured as the lyrist Avjxzwc among the celestial constellations: andof discipRnts, because the invention of geometry, reasoning and U z discourse