OCR Output 318 ROMAiN EMPIRE. Jews were dragged in chains to the market-place of thecity: they descended alive into the grave prepared fortheir execution and burial; and the apostle beheld withan inflexible eye the slaughter of his helpless enemies.Their sheep and camels were inherited by the Mussul­mans: three hundred cuirasses, five hundred pikes, athousand lances, composed the most useful portion ofthe spoil. Six days'journey to the north-east of Medina,the ancient and wealthy town of Chairbar was the seatof the Jewish power in Arabia; the territory, a fertilespot in the desert, was covered with plantations andcattle, and protected by eight castles, some of whichwere esteemed of impregnable strength. The forces ofMahomet consisted of two hundred horse and fourteenhundred foot: in the succession of eight regular andpainful sieges they were exposed to danger, and fatigue,and hunger; and the most undaunted chiefs despairedof the event. The apostle revived their faith and cou­rage by the example of Ali, on whom he bestowed thesurname of the Lion of God: perhaps we may believethat a Hebrew champion of gigantic stature was clovento the chest by his irresistible scimitar; but we cannotpraise the modesty of romance, which represents him astearing from its hinges the gate of a fortress, and wield­ing the ponderous buckler in his left hand." After thereduction of the castles, the town of Chaibar submittedto the yoke. The chief of the tribe was tortured, in thepresence of Mahomet, to force a confession of his hiddentreasure: the industry of the shepherds and husband­men was rewarded with a precarious toleration: theywere permitted, so long as it should please the con­queror, to improve their patrimony, in equal shares, forhis emolument and their own. Under the reign ofOmar, the Jews of Chaibar were transplanted to Syria; 1 Aba Rafe, the servant of Mahomet, is said to affirm that he himself, and sevenother men, afterward tried, without success, to move the same gate from theground. (Abulfedn, p. 90.) Abu Rafe was an eye-witness, but who will be witnessfor Abu Rafe? •