OCR Output 534 [book xiv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. encamped at the north wall of the city; beingnow an army of eleven legions, armed men onfoot, and six thousand horsemen, with otherauxiliaries out of •Syria. The generals weretwo, viz. Sosius, sent by Antony, to assist He­rod; and Herod, on his own account, in orderto take the government from Antigonus, whowas declared an enemy at Rome; and thathe might himself be king, according to thedecree of the senate. Now the Jews that were enclosed withinthe walls of the city, fought against Herodwith great alacrity and zeal; for the wholenation was gathered together: they also gaveout many prophecies respecting the temple,and many things agreeable to the people; asif God would deliver them out of the dangersthey were in. They had also carried offwhat was out of the city, that they might notleave any thing to afford sustenance for men,or for beasts; and by private robberies theymade the want of necessaries greater. WhenHerod understood this, he opposed ambushesin the fittest places against their private rob­beries; and sent legions of armed men tobring in provisions; and that from remoteplaces: so that in a little time they had greatplenty. Now the three bulwarks were easilyerected; because so many hands were conti­nually at work upon them. For it was sum­mer time, and there was nothing to hinderthem in raising their works, neither from theair nor from the workmen. So they broughttheir engines to bear, and shook the wall ofthe city, and tried all manner of ways to getin. Yet did not these within discover anyfear: but they also contrived not a few en­gines, to oppose those of the besiegers. Theyalso sallied out, and burnt not only those en­gines that were not yet perfected, but thosethat were: and when they came hand to handtheir attempts were not less bold than thoseof the Romans; though they were inferior tothem in skill. They also erected new works,when the former were ruined; and makingmines under ground, they met each other, andfought there: and making use of brutish cou­rage, rather than of prudent valour, they per­sisted in this war to the very last. And thisthey did while a mighty army lay round aboutthetn; and while they were distressed byfamine, and the want of necessaries: for thishappened to be a sabbatic year. The first that scaled the walls were twenty chosenmen: the next were Sosius's centurions, t orthe first wall was taken in forty days; and thesecond in fifteen more: when some of thecloisters that were about the temple wereburnt: which Herod gave out to have beenburnt by Antigonus, in order to expose him tothe hatred of the Jews. And when the outercourt of the temple, and the lower city, weretaken, the Jews fled into the inner court of thetemple, and into the upper city. But now fear­ing lest the Romans should prevent them fromoffering their daily sacrifices to God, they sentan ambassage, and desired that they wouldonly permit them to bring in beasts for sa­crifices. This Herod granted: hoping theywere going to yield. But when he saw thatthey did nothing of what he supposed, butbitterly opposed him, in order to preserve thekingdom to Antigonus, he made an assaultupon the city, and took it by storm. And nowall parts were full of those that were slain, bythe rage of the Romans at the long durationof the siege; and by the zeal of the Jewsthat were on Herod's side; who were notwilling to leave one of their adversaries alive.So they were murdered continually in thenarrow streets, and in the houses by crowds,and as they were fleeing to the temple forshelter; and there was no pity taken of eitherinfants or the aged; nor did they spare somuch as the weaker sex. Nay, although theking sent about and besought them to sparethe people, yet nobody restrained their handfrom slaughter; but, as if they were a com­pany of madmen, they fell upon persons of allages, without distinction. And then Anti­gonus, without regard to either his past orpresent circumstances, came down from thecitadel, and fell down at the feet of Sosius.He, however, took no pity of him, in thechange of his fortune; but insulted him be­yond measure, and called him * Antigone. Yet .did not he treat him as if he were a woman,by letting him go at liberty; but put him intobonds, and kept him in close custody. And now Herod had overcome his enemies,his care was to govern those foreigners whohad been his assistants. For the crowd ofstrangers rushed to see the temple, and thesacred things it contained. But the kingthinking a victory to be a more severe al- * Antigone is the name of a woman.