OCR Output 43-6 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. great things, and he encouraged his hopes from those mean wick­ed tricks which he was the author of. He had a peculiar knackat thieving; but in some time he got certain companions in hisimpudent practices; at first they were but few, but as he pro­ceeded on in his evil course, they became still more and morenumerous. He took care that none of his partners should beeasily caught in their rogueries, but chose such out of the restas had the strongest constitutions of body, and the greatest cou­rage of soul, together with great skill in martial affairs; so hegot together a band of four hundred men, who came principallyout of the country of Tyre, and were vagabonds that had runaway from its villages; and by the means of these he laid wasteall Galilee, and irritated a considerable number, who were in,great expectation of a war then suddenly to arise among them.2. However John's want of money had hitherto restrained himin his ambition after command, and in his attempts to advancehimself. But when he saw that Josephus was highly pleasedwith the activity of his temper, he persuaded him, in the firstplace, to intrust him with the repairing of the walls of his na­tive city [Gischala], in which work he got a great deal of mo­ney from the rich citizens. He after that contrived a veryshrewd trick, and pretending that the Jews who dwelt in Syriawere obliged to make use of oil that was made by others thanthose of their own nation, he desired leave of Josephus to sendoil to their borders: so he bought four amphorae with such Ty-rian money as was of the value of four Attic drachmae, and1sold every half amphoric at the same price. And as Galileewas very fruitful in oil, and was peculiarly so at that time, bysending away great quantities, and having the sole privilege so10 do, he gathered an immense sum of money together, whichmoney he immeditatelyusedtothe disadvantage of him who gavehim that privilege; and, as he supposed, that if he could onceoverthrow Josephus, he shouldhimself obtain the government ofGalilee, so he gave order to the robbers that were under hiscommand, to be more zealous in their thievish expeditions, thatby the rise of many that desired innovations in the country, hemight either catch their general in his snares, as he came to thecountry's assistance, and then kill him; or if he should overlook'the robbers, he might accuse him for his negligence to the peo­ple of the country. He also s-pread abroad a report far and near;that Josephus was delivering up the administration of affairsto the Romans; and many such plots did he lay, in order t»ruin him. 3. Now at the same time that ceftian young men of the vil­lage Dabaritta, who kept guard in the great plain, laid snar&S for