OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 139 Nuceria, at Capua, and in the territory of Thurii. This lastconspiracy was so important, that the urban praetor had tomarch with a legion against it and yet overcame the insur­rection not by force of arms, but only by insidious treachery.It was moreover a suspicious circumstance, that the insur­rection was headed not by a slave, but by the Roman knightTitus Vettius, whom his debts had driven to the insane stepof manumitting his slaves and declaring himself their king(650). The apprehensions of the government with reference 104.to the accumulation of bodies of slaves in Italy are shown bythe measures of precaution respecting the gold-washings ofVictumulas, which were carried on after 611 on account of 143.the Roman government: the lessees were first bound notto employ more than 5000 labourers, and then the workingswere totally stopped by decree of the senate. Under sucha government as the present there was every reason in factfor fear, if, as was very possible, a Transalpine host shouldpenetrate into Italy and summon the slaves, who were ingreat part of kindred lineage, to arms. The province^ suffered $till more in comparison. "We The pro-shall have an idea 'of the condition of Sicily and Asia, if we vinces.endeavour to realize what would be the aspect of matters inthe East Indies provided the English aristocracy were similarto the Roman aristocracy of that day. The legislation,which intrusted the mercantile class with control over themagistrates, compelled the latter to make common causeto a certain extent with the former, and to purchase forthemselves unlimited liberty to plunder and protection fromimpeachment by unconditional indulgence towards the capi­talists in the provinces. In addition to these official and Piracy,semi-official robbers, freebooters and pirates pillaged all thecountries of the Mediterranean. In the Asiatic watersmore especially the buccaneers carried their outrages so far,that even the Roman government found itself under thenecessity in 652 of despatching to Cilicia a fleet, mainly 102.composed of the vessels of the dependent mercantile cities,under the praetor Marcus Antonius who was invested withproconsular powers. This fleet captured a number of corsair-vessels and destroyed some strongholds; and not only so,but the Romans even settled themselves permanently there,and in order to the suppression of piracy in its chief seat,the rugged or western Cilicia, occupied strong militarypositions—the first step towards the establishment of the