OCR Output OF THE ROMAK EMPIRE; 50J the west:f 1) to his person the title of majesty was long appropriated; and he dis­puted with the pope the sublime prerogative of creating kings and assemblingcouncils. The oracle of the civil law, the learned Bartolus, was a pensioner ofCharles IV. and his school resounded with the doctrine, that the Roman emperorwasthe rightful sovereign of the earth, from the rising to the setting sun. Thecontrary opinion was condemned, not as an error, but as a heresy; since even thegospel had pronounced, " And there went forth a decree from Csesar Augustusthat all the world should be taxed. "(2) If we annihilate the interval of time and space between Augustus and Charles,strong and striking will be the contrast between the two Caesars; the Bohemian,who concealed his weakness under the mask of ostentation, and the Roman, whodisguised his strength under the semblance of modesty. At the head of his victo­rious legions, in his reign over the sea and land, from the Nile and Euphrates tothe Atlantic ocean, Augustus professed himself the servant of the state and theequal of his fellow-citizens. The conqueror of Rome and her provinces assumedthe popular and legal forms of a censor, a consul, and a tribune. His will wasthe law of mankind, but in the declaration of his laws he borrowed the voice ofthe senate and people; and, from their decrees, their master accepted and renewedhis temporary commission to administer to the republic. In his dress, his domes­tics, (3) his titles, in all the offices of social life, Augustus maintained the characterof a private Roman: and his most artful flatterers respected the secret of his ab­solute and perpetual monarchy. CHAPTER L. Description of Arabia and its inhabitants.—Birth, character, and doctrine, of Mahomet.—Hepreaches at Mecca.—Flies to Medina.—Propagates his religion by the sword.—Vo­luntary or reluctant submission of the Arabs.—His death and successors.—The claimsand fortunes of Ali and his descendants. After pursuing above six hundred years the fleeting Caesars of Constantinopleand Germany, I now descend, in the reign of Heraclius, on the eastern borders ofthe Greek monarchy. While the state was exhausted by the Persian war, andthe church was distracted by the Nestorian and Monophysite sects, Mahomet,with the sword in one hand and the Koran in the other, erected his throne on theruins of Christianity and of Rome. The genius of the Arabian prophet, the man­ners of his nation, and the spirit of his religion, involve the causes of the declineand fall of the eastern empire; and our eyes are curiously intent on one of the mostmemorable revolutions which have impressed a new and lasting character on thenations of the globe. (4) In the vacant space between Persia, Syria, Egypt, and Ethiopia, the Arabianpeninsula,(5) may be conceived as a triangle of spacious but irregular dimensions, (1) The republic of Europe, with the pope and emperor at its heads, was never represented with more dig­nity than in the council of Constance. See Lenfant's History of that assembly. (2) Gravina, Origines Juris Civilis, p. 108. (3) Six thousand ums have been discovered of the slaves and freednten of Augustus and Livia. So minutewas the division of office, that one slave was appointed to weigh the wool which was spnn by the empress'smaids, another for the care of her lap dog, &c (Camere Sepoichrale, &o. by Bianchini. Extract of his work,in the Bibliotheque Italique, torn. iv. p. 175. His Eloge, by Fontenelle, torn. vi. p. 356.)- But these servants.wers>of the same rank, and possibly not more numerous than those of Follio or Lentulus. They only provethe general riches of the city. (4) As in this and the following chapter I shall display much Arabic learning. 1 must profess my total igno­rance of the oriental tongues, and my gratitude to the learned interpreters, who have transfused their scienceinto the Latin, French, and English languages. Their collections, versions, and histories, I shall occasionallynotice. (5) The geographers of Arabia may be divided into three classes.—1. The Greeks and Latins, whose pro­gressive knowledge may be traced in Agathareides, (di Mari Rubro. in Hudson. Geograph. Minor, torn, i.) Di-odorus Siculus, (torn. i. lib. ii. p. 159—167. lib. iii. p. 211—216. edit. Wesseling) Strabo, (lib. xvi. p. 1112—1114.from Eratosthenes, p. 1122—1132. from Artemidoras) Dionysius, (Periegesis, 927—960.) Pliny, (Hist. Natnr. 5,12.6.32.) and Ptolemy. (Descript. et Tabulae Urbium, in Hudson, torn. Mi.) 2. The Arabic writers, who havetreated the subject with the zeal of patriotism or devotion: the extracts of Pocock (Specimen Hist. Arabura,p. 125—128.) from the Geography or the Sherif al Edrissi, render us still more dissatisfied with the version orabridgment (p. 24—27.44—56. 108, 8cc. 119, &c) which the Maronttes have published under the absurd title ofGcographia Nubiensis; (Paris, 1619.) but the Latin and French translators, Graves, (in Hudson, torn, iii.) andGallant], (Voyage de la Palestine par la Roque, p. 265—346.) have opened to us the Arabic of Abulfeda, themost copious and correct account of the peninsula, which may be enriched, however, from the BibliothequeOrientate of D'Herbelot, p. 120. et alibi passim. S. The European travellers, among whom Shaw (p. 438—455.)and Niebuhr, (Description, 1773, Voyages, torn. i. 1776.) deserve an honourable distinction: Busching (Geo.graphie par Bcringer, torn. viii. p. 416-^510.) has eompilcd wi(h judgment; and d'AnvillCs Maps (Ortm Vete.