OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 341 They excessively dreaded the weight of such another calami­ty, as they had been sensible of in the blow at Sphacteria.Intimidated thus, they durst no longer think of fighting ; nay,whatever measures they concerted, they at once despondedof success, as their minds, accustomed till of late to an unin­terrupted career of good fortune, were now forebodingnothing but disappointments. Thus, for the most part,whilst the Athenians were extending their devastations allalong their coasts, they remained inactive. Each party onguard, though the enemy made a descent in the face of theirpost, knowing themselves inferior in number and sadly dis­pirited, made no offer to check them. One party indeed,which was posted near Cortyta and Aphrodisia, perceivingthe light-armed of the enemy to be straggling, ran speedily tocharge them ; but when the heavy-armed advanced to theirsupport, they retreated with so much precipitation, that some(though few) of them were killed, and their arms rifled.The Athenians, after erecting a trophy, re-embarked and re­passed to Cythera. From thence they sailed again along the coast to the Li-merian Epidaurus ; and, after ravaging part of that district,they arrived at Thyrea, which, though it lies in the districtcalled Cynuria, is the frontier-town which parts Argia andLaconia. This place belonged to the Lacedaemonians, whohad assigned it for the residence of the exiled iEginetae, inrequital of the services they had done them at the time of theearthquake and the insurrection of the Helots, and furtherbecause, though subject to the Athenians, they hadjever firmlyabided in the Lacedaemonian interest. The iEginetae, thusagain invaded by the Athenians, abandoned the fortificationupon the sea-side, which they were busy in throwing up, andretreated into the city, which was the place of their residence,seated higher up at the distance of about ten stadia* fromthe shore. A party of Lacedaemonians had been posted Vol. I. • About a mile.3L