OCR Output 122 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 772. ruin of that unfortunate prince. Catualda, a youngman of rank, who was formerly compelled by the in­justice of Maroboduus to fly his country, had taken 'refuge among the Gothones. The season of revenge |was at length arrived. At the head of a strong forcehe entered the territory of the Marcomanians. Hav-ing seduced the leading nobles to his party he stormedthe royal palace, and took by assault a strong castlenearly adjoining, where the Suevians had been ac­customed to deposit their plunder. A considerablebooty fell into his hands. He found, besides, a num­ber of victuallers and traders from the Roman pro­vinces ; men who had been attracted to that part ofthe world by the liberty allowed to commerce, and bythe love of lucre were induced to remain, till by forceof habit, they* lost all remembrance of their nativeland. LXIII. Maroboduus, finding himself deserted byhis people, had no resource but in the friendship ofTiberius. He crossed the Danube, where that riverwashes the confines of Noricum; and thence sent hisdespatches to Rome, not in the humble style of aprince driven from his throne, but, even in ruin, withan elevation of mind worthy of his former grandeur.The substance of his letter was, that the nations whoknew his fame in arms had made him offers of friend­ship, but he chose rather to rely on the protection ofthe Romans. Tiberius promised him a safe retreatin Italy ; with liberty, if his affairs took a favourableturn, to withdraw whenever his interest should invitehim. To the fathers he talked a different language:Philip of Macedon, he said, was not so much to bedreaded by the Athenians, nor Pyrrhus or Antio-chus by the Roman people. His speech on this oc­casion is still extant; we there find him magnifyingthe fortitude of the German chief, and the ferocity ofthe nations over which he reigned with absolutepower. He sets forth the danger of a powerful enemyso near the Roman frontier, and applauds himself forthe wisdom of the measures that brought on the ruinof a great and warlike prince. Maroboduus was re­ceived at Ravenna: and there held up to the Suevians,