OCR Output CHAP. LI. 389 and conspicuous: they vanished on a sudden; but theSaracens were comforted by the assurance that the ca­ravan had turned aside into the mountains, and mustspeedily fall into their hands. In traversing the ridgesof the Libanus, they endured intolerable hardships, andthe sinking spirits of the veteran fanatics were sup­ported and cheered by the unconquerable ardour of alover. From a peasant of the country, they were in­formed that the emperor had sent orders to the colony ofexiles, to pursue without delay the road of the sea-coast,and of Constantinople; apprehensive, perhaps, that thesoldiers and people of Antioch might be discouragedby the sight and the story of their sufferings. The Sa­racens were conducted through the territories of Gabala'and Laodicea, at a cautious distance from the walls ofthe cities; the rain was incessant, the night was dark,a single mountain separated them from the Roman army;and Caled, ever anxious for the safety of his brethren,whispered an ominous dream in the ear of his compa­nion. With the dawn of day, the prospect again clear­ed, and they saw before them, in a pleasant valley, thetents of Damascus. After a short interval of repose andprayer, Caled divided his cavalry into four, squadrons,committing the first to his faithful Derar, and reservingthe last for himself. They successively rushed on thepromiscuous multitude, insufficiently provided with arms,and already vanquished by sorrow and fatigue. Excepta captive who was pardoned and dismissed, the Arabsenjoyed the satisfaction of believing that not a Christianof either sex escaped the edge of.their scimitars. Thegold and silver of Damascus was scattered over the camp,and a royal wardrobe of three hundred load of silk mightclothe an army of naked barbarians. In the tumult of 'The towns of Gabala and Laodicea, which the Arabs passed, still exist in astate of decay. (Maundrell, p. 11, 12. Focock, vol. 2. p. 13.) Had not theChristians been overtaken, they must have crossed the Orontes on some bridge inthe sixteen miles between Antioch and the sea, and might have rejoined the highroad of Constantinople at Alexandria. The itineraries will represent the direc­tions and distances, (p. 146.148. 581, 582. edit. Wesseling.)