OCR Output AN. 1080.] 235 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. V. op david's successes against the Philistines, and themoabites, and the kings op sophene and of damas­cus, the syrians, and the idumeans; of his leaguewith the king op hamath; and his gratitude forthe friendship of jonathan. A LITTLE while after* this David con­sidered, that he ought to make waragainst the Philistines, and not see any indo­lence permitted in his management; that soit might prove as God had foretold to him,that when he had overthrown his enemies, heshould leave his posterity to reign in peace.So he called together his army, and chargedthem to be ready and prepared for war; andwhen he thought that all things were in agood state, he removed from Jerusalem, andcame against the Philistines; and when hehad overcome them in battle, and had cut offa great part of their country, and united it tothe country of the Hebrews, he transferredthe war to the Moabites. And when he hadovercome two parts of their army in battle,he took the remaining part captive ;f andimposed tribute upon them to be paid annu- ally.J He then made war against Hadadezer,the son of Rehob,|| king of Sophene; andwhen he had joined battle with him, at theriver Euphrates, he destroyed twenty thou­sand of his footmen, and about seven thousandof his horsemen. He also took a thousandof his chariots, and destroyed the greatestpart of them; and ordered that no more than§one hundred should be kept. Now when** Hadad, king of Damascus, andof Syria, heard that David fought againstHadadezer, who was his friend, he came tohis assistance, with a powerful army, in hopesto rescue him; but when he had joined battlewith David, at the river Euphrates, he failedof his purpose, and lost a great number of hissoldiers; for there were slain of the army ofHadad twenty thousand, and all the rest fled.Nicolaus also, of Damascus, makes mentionof the king, in the fourth book of his histories,where he speaks thus: "A great while afterthese things had happened, there was one ofthat country whose name was Hadad, whowas become very potent. He reigned overDamascus, and the other parts of Syria, ex­cepting Phoenicia. He made war against * About an. 1081. t There is no small obscurity in the words of the text,which are these :—He smote Moab, and measured themwith a line, casting them down to the ground; even intwo lines measured he to put to death, and with one lineto keep alive. Which words seem to allude to a customamong the kings of the east, when they were thoroughlyincensed against any nation, viz. to make the captives allcome together in one place, and prostrate themselvesupon the ground; that, being divided into two parts, as itwere with a line, their conqueror might appoint whichpart he pleased either for death or life, which was some­times determined by casting of lots. Some are of opinion,that David made three lots or parts of these Moabites, twoof which he ordered to be slain, and one part only to bekept alive. The reason of this severity against thismiserable people, the Rabbins assure us, was, becausethey had slain his parents and brethren, whom he hodcommitted to the custody of the king of Moab during hisexile. But of the reality of this motive there is no mannerof appearance; and since this execution which David in­flicted may relate either to the whole nation, or the armyonly, to clear David from the imputation of too muchcruelty, we should rather conceive it of the third, or halfpart at most, of the army. Le Clerks and Calmefs Com­mentaries. B. % 2 Sam. viii. 2. II Whether Syria Zobah, 2 Sam. iii. 8. ,1 Chron. xviii.3—8, be Sophene, as Josephus here supposes: which yetPtolomy places beyond Euphrates, as Dr. Hudson ob­serves here ; whereas Zobah was on this side ; or whetherJosephus was not here guilty of a mistake in his geog­raphy, I cannot certainly determine. voL. I.—NOS. 19 & 20- § David's reserving only 100 chariots for himself, outof 1000 he had taken from Hadadezer, was most probablydone in compliance with the law of Moses, which forbadethe king of Israel to multiply horses to himself, Deut.xvii. 16. One of the principal uses of horses in Judeaat that time being for drawing their chariots: see Jo­seph. Antiq. V. 1. and Bp. Sherlock's discourse on thatsubject. ** It deserves here to be remarked, that this Hadad,being a very great king, was conquered by David; whoseposterity yet for several generations were called Ben­hadad, or the son of Hadad, till the days of Hazael; whoseson Adar or Ader is also in our Hebrew copy, 2 Kings xiii.24. written Benhadad; but in Josephus Adad or Adar.And strange it is, that the son of Hazael, said to be such inthe same text, and in Josephus, IX. 8. should still becalled the son of Hadad. I would therefore here correctour Hebrew copy from Josephus's; which seems to havethe true reading. Nor does the testimony of Nicolaus ofDamascus produced in this place by Josephus, seem to befaultless; when it says, that he was the third of the Ha-dads, or second of the Benhadads, who besieged Samaria,in the days of Ahab. He must rather have been theseventh or eighth, if there were ten in all of that name,as we are assured there were. For testimony makes allthe Hadads or Benhadads of the same line; and to haveimmediately succeeded one another. Whereas Hazaelwas not of that line, nor is he called Hadad or Benhadad,in any copy. And note that from this Hadad, in thedays of David, to the beginning of Hazael, were near200 years, according to the most exact chronology ofJosephus. Zz