OCR Output 252 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVTS. Book XIV. BOOK XIV. CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF THIRTY-TWO YEARS. FROM THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA TO THE DEATHOF ANTIGONUS. CHAP. I. The war between Aristobulus and Hyrcanus about the kingdom;and how they made an agreement, that Aristobulus should beking, and Hyrcanus live a private life: as also how Hyrcan­us, a little afterward, was persuaded by Antipater to Jly toAretas. 'i O J § 1. WE have related the affairs of Queen Alexandra, andher death in the foregoing book, and will now speak of whatfollowed, and was connected with those histories; declaring,before we proceed, that we have nothing so much at heart asthis, they we may * omit no facts, either through ignorance orlaziness, for we are upon the history and explication of suchthings as the greatest part are unacquainted withal, because oftheir distance from our times; and we aim to do it with aproper beauty of style, so far as that is derived from properwords harmonically disposed, and from such ornaments ofspeech also as may contribute to the pleasure of our readers,that we may entertain the knowledge of what we write withsome agreeable satisfaction and pleasure. But the principalscope that authors ought to aim at above all the rest, is to speakaccurately, and to speak truly, for the satisfaction of those thatare otherwise unacquainted with such transactions, and obligedto believe what these writers inform them of. 2. Hyrcanus then began his high priesthood on the third yearof the hundred seventy-seventh olympiad, when Quintius Horten-sius and Quintus Metellus, who was called Metellus of Crete,were consuls at Rome; when presently Aristobulus began tomake war against him, and as it came to a battle with Hyrcan-tis at Jericho, many of the soldiers deserted him, and went overto his brother; upon which Hyrcanus fled into the citadel, whereAristobulus' wife and children were imprisoned by their mo­ther, as we have said already, and attacked and overcame those * Reland takes notice here, very justly, how Joseplms' declaration, that it washis great concern not only to write an agreeable, an accurate, and a true history, butalso distinctly not to omit any thing [of consequence,] either through ignorance orlaziness, implies that he could not, consistently with that resolution, omit the mentionof [so famous a person as] Jesvs Christ,