OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL IV. The conquest of Africa, from the Nile to the Atlantic ocean,(l) was firstattempted by the arms of the caliph Othman. The pious design was approved bythe companions of Mahomet and the chiefs of the tribes; and twenty thousandArabs marched from Medina, with the gifts and the blessings of the commanderof the faithful. They were joined in the camp of Memphis by twenty thousand oftheir countrymen: and the conduct of the war,was intmsted to Abdallah,(2) theson of Said, and the foster-brother of the caliph, who had lately supplanted theconqueror and lieutenant of Egypt. Yet the favour of the prince, and the meritof his favourite, could not obliterate the guilt of his apostacy. The early con­version of Abdallah, and his skilful pen, had recommended him to the importantoffice of transcribing the sheets of the Koran; he betrayed his trust, corrupted thetext, derided the errors which he had made, and fled to Mecca, to escape thejustice, and expose the ignorance, of the apostle. After the conquest of Mecca, hefell prostrate at the feet of Mahomet: his tears, and the entreaties of Othman, ex­torted a reluctant pardon; but the prophet declared that he had so long hesitated,to allow time for some zealous disciple to avenge his injury in the blood of theapostate. With apparent fidelity, and effective merit, he served the religionwhich it was no longer his interest to desert: his birth and talents gave him anhonourable rank among the Koreish; and in a nation of cavalry, Abdallah was re­nowned as the boldest and most dexterous horseman of Arabia. At the head offorty thousand Moslems, he advanced from Egypt into the unknown countries ofthe west. The sands of Barca might be impervious to a Roman legion; but theArabs were attended by their faithful camels; and the natives of the desert beheldwithout terror the familiar aspect of the soil and climate. After a painfulmarch, they pitched their tents before the walls of Tripoli,(3) a maritime city inwhich the name, the wealth, and the inhabitants, of the province had graduallycentred, and which now maintains the third rank among the states of Barbary.A re-enforcement of Greeks was surprised and cut in pieces on the sea-shore; butthe fortifications of Tripoli resisted the first assaults; and the Saracens were tempt­ed, by the approach of the prefect Gregory, (4) to relinquish the labours of thesiege for the perils and the hopes of a decisive action. If his standard was fol­lowed by one hundred and twenty thousand men, the regular bands of the empiremust have been lost in the naked and disorderly crowd of Africans and Moors,who formed the strength, or rather the numbers, of his host. He rejected withindignation the option of the Koran or the tribute; and during several days, thetwo armies were fiercely engaged from the dawn of light to the hour of noon, whentheir fatigue and the excessive heat compelled them to seek shelter and refresh­ment in their respective camps. The daughter of Gregory, a maid of incomparablebeauty and spirit, is said to have fought by his side: from her earliest youth shewas trained to mount on horseback, to draw the bow, and to wield the scimitar:and the richness of her arms and apparel was conspicuous in the foremost ranksof the battle. Her hand, with a hundred thousand pieces of gold, was offered forthe head of the Arabian general, and the youths of Africa were excited by theprospect of the glorious prize. At the pressing solicitation of his brethren, Abdal­lah withdrew his person from the field; but the Saracens were discouraged by theretreat of their leader, and the repetition of these equal or unsuccessful conflicts. A noble Arabian, who afterwards became the adversary of Ali and the father knowledge is collected hyAbutfeda, (Descript. Egypt. Arab, et Lat. a. .Toh. David Michaelis, Gcttings, inquarto, 1776.) ami in two recent voyages into Egypt, we are amused by Savary, and instructed by Volney. Iwish the latter could travel over the globe. (1) My conquest of Africa is drawn from two French interpreters of Arabic literature, Cardonne, (Hist, deI'Afrique et de l'Espagne sous la Domination des Arabes, torn. i. p. 8—55.) and Otter. (Hist, de I'Academie desInscriptions, torn. xxi. p. Ill—125. and 136.) They derive their principal information from Novairi, who com­posed, A. D. 1331, an Encyclopedia in more than twenty volumes. The five general parts successively treat of,1. Phvsics, 2. Man, 3. Animals, 4. Plants, and 5. History: and the A frimn affairs are discussed in the sixth chap­ter of the fifth section of this last part. (Reiske, Prodidagmata ad Hagji Clialifse Tabulas, p. 232—234.) Amongthe older historians who are quoted by Novairi, we may distinguish the original narrative of a soldier who let] thevan of the Moslems. (2) Seethe history or Abdallah, in Abulfeda (Vit. Mohammed, p. 109.) and Gagnier. Viede Mahomet, torn,iii. p. 45—48.) (3) The province and city of Tripoli are described by Leo Africanus (in Navigationc et Viaggi di Rammiotorn. i. Venetia, 1550, fol. 76. vrrto) and Marmot. (Description de 1'Afriqne, torn. ii. p. 562.) The first of thesewriters was a Moor, a scholar and a traveller, who composed or translated his African geography in a state ofcaptivity at Rome, where he had assumed ttie n*me and religion of Pope LeoX. In a similar captivity amongthe Moors, the Spaniard Marmol, a soldier of Charles V. compiled his description of Africa, translated by d'Ab-Inncourt into French (Paris, 1667, three vols, in quarto,) Marmol had read and seen, but he is destitute of thecurious and extensive observations which abound in the original work of Leo the African. (4) Theopbanes, who mentions the defeat, rather than the death, of Gregory. He brands the prefect withthe name of Tupxvmt; he had probably assumed the purple. (Chronograph, p. 285.)