OCR Output ROMA. 7!«7 ROMA. Blanch; " In ecclesia vera beatonim Cosmae ctis tribus Fatis," 4c. Id. V. lladr. ib. p. 254.)rre perhaps the name of lemplum fatale appliedla* temple of Janus. Tit last object which we shall hare to describetie farum ii the Colih.x of Phocas. Whilst therues monuments of Julius and Augustus, the! in* of the empire, have vanished, this pillar,.••»! in the Tear 608 by Smaragdus, exarch of1 ii. to one of the meanest and most hateful ofr unami, still rears its head to testify the low ■ to which Rome had fallen. It appears from..■tription, which will be found in Canina (/'..«.-- p. ZI3) and Bunsen (Betrkr. vol. iii. p. 271), a nit ataroe of Phocas stood upon the summit. Tir* of Pbocaa has been erased from this co-a, probably by Heraclius; but the date suffl-'j* «bowa that it must have been dedicated toPreviously to the discovery of this inscription,a happened in 1813, it was thought that the ■ a betaged to some bnilding ; and indeed it.m mktf taken from one, as the workmanshipit anperior to what could have been executed ■ - tune of Phocas. Byron alludes to it as theaetSM column with a buried base." In the ex-Ma made in 1816, at the expense of therm of Devonshire, the pedestal was discovered an a raised basis with steps of very in-(Murrav's Handbook of Home,t) It may be remarked that this columni the (arum to have been in its ancient state,■rarambered with rubbish, at the cotnmence-af the 7th century. Between this pillar andvyk *f the Basilica Julia are throe large basesmt far statues. V. Tux Imperial Fora. -m Jmbmrm.—As Rome increased in size, itsl-exm is no longer capable of accommodatingUitsdes that resorted to it on mercantile orimaaeas; and we have seen that attempts weresaalt to afford increased accommodation byr Tariosa baucilicae around it. Under the.. r^rc Kome had attained to enormous great-■w- thr>e did not suffice, and several new foraa#trocte«l by various emperors; as the Forumis <x Julium. the Forum Augusti, the Forum er Tranaitorinm, and lastly the Forum Tra-TW f4rtr~*l business, however, was still con-• n* ancient forum, and tho principal use ofw fas was aa courts of justice. Probably ^raqra of them was that they should be; arsmaesits of their founders. In most-T «bo not ao much assume the aspect of aa'taat of a temple within an enclosed space, ■n, the bum of Trajan being the only one „- 1Mnf a basilic*. From this characteristic. r.rt. the magnificent temple of Peace,a* I »l assail without any design of its beingacrd rx> the ptirpoMs of a forum, obtained in-«-> the names of Forum Vespasiani and iV-u.- afterat m n B-y \tmlis- tfaI the ■ of tbia kind was that of Caesar,or Vests Gemitiiix, whichI before) the breaking out of the Civilthe battle of Pbarsalus the whole planranged- It was dedicated after hisC. 45. before it was finished, and indeedit was necessary to substitute a plasterie of Venus, which afterwardsof the temple. (PUn. xxxv. 45.) Caesar did not live to see it completed, andit was finished by Augustus, as we leam from theMotaaneatum Ancyranum. We are told by Appian(B. C. ii. 102) that tho temple was surroundedwith an open space, or rfatvos, and that it was notdestined for traffic but for the transaction of legalbusiness. As it stood in the very heart of the cityCaesar was compelled to lay out immense sums inpurchasing the area for it, which alone is said tohave cost him "super H. 8. millies," or about900,000/. sterling. (Suet. Cats. 26; Plin. xxxvi.24.) Yet it was smaller than the ancient forum,which now, in contradistinction to that of Caesar,obtained the name of Forum Magnum. (Dion Cass,xliii. 22.) No vestige of the Forum Julium has survived tomodern times, and very various opinions have been'entertained with regard to its exact site; althoughmost topographers have agreed in placing it behindthe N. side of the Forum Romanum, but on sitesvarying along its whole extent. Nardini was thefirst who pointed to its correct situation behind thechurch of Sta Martina, but it was reserved forCanina to adduce the proof. We must here revert to a letter of Cicero's (adAlt. iv. 16), which we had occasion to quote whenspeaking of the restoration of the Basilica Aemiliaunder the forum of the Republic. It has an im­portant passage with regard to the situation of theForum Julium, but unfortunately so obscurely wordedas to have proved quite a crux to the interpreters.It appears to have been written in n. c. 54, andruns as follows: "Paullus in medio foro basilicamjam paene texuit iisdem antiquis columnis; illam-autem quam locavit facit magnificentissimam. Quidquaeris? nihil gratius illo monumento, nihil glo-riosius. Itaque Caesaris amici (me dico et Oppium,dimmparis licet) in monumentum illud, quod tutollere laudibus solebas, ut forum laxaremus etusque ad atrium Libertatis explicaremus, contem-psimus sexcenties it. s. Cum privatis non potenttransigi minors pecunia. Efficiemus rem glorio-sissitnnm: nam in Campo Martio septa tributiscomitiis marmorea sumus et tecta fact mi eaquecingemus excelsa porticu," &c. Of these wordsBecker has given two different interpretations.He first imagined (Handb. p. 302, scq.) that Cicerowas speaking only of two buildings: the BasilicaAemilia, which Paullus was restoring, and a newbasilica, which the same person was building withCaesar's money, and which was afterwards namedthe Basilica Julia. But before he had finished hiswork he altered his mind, and at p. 460 pronounceshis opinion that Cicero was speaking of no fewerthan four different edifices: 1st, the Basilica Paulli(" Paullus—Columnis"); 2nd, the Basilica Julia(''il­lam—gloriosius "); 3rd, the Forum Julium (" Itaque—pecunia"); 4th, the Septa Julia (•' Efficiemus,"&c). With all these views, except the second, we areinclined to agree; but we do not think it probablethat Paullus would be constructing two basilicao atthe same time; nor do we perceive how a new oneonly then in progress could have been a monumentthat Atticus had been accustomed to praise. Thechief beauty of the basilica of Paullus was derivedfrom its columns (" Nonue inter magnifica dicanmsbasilicam Paulli columnis e Phrygibus mirabilem,"Plin. xxxvi. 24. s. 1); and though it had undergonetwo or three subsequent restorations before the timeof Pliny, we arc nevertheless inclined to think thatI tho columns praised by him were the very same