OCR Output 26 THE EftUESTRIAX ORDER. themselves by the privilege of their rings. On this account itwas decreed, that no one should enjoy that right who was nothimself free-born, and whose father and paternal grandfather hadnot possessed a property which was rated at 400 sestertia,1 and who,according to the Julian law, were entitled to sit on one of the four­teen first benches at the theatre. But afterwards that badge be­gan to be wished for by every one indiscriminately; and, on accountof the disturbances that hence ensued, it was that the EmperorCaius formed a fifth order of judges. And so much emulation wasexcited from this cause, that the benches which could not be filledin the time of the late Emperor Augustus, cannot now contain allthe members, and that freedmen jump directly from the state ofslavery to the wearing of these ornaments, a thing that was neverdone before, since the wearing of the iron rings was understood tobe the privilege of the knights and judges. The use of ringsbecame so promiscuous, that in the censorship of Claudius Caesar,Flavius Proculus, one of the knights, indited 400 persons on thisvery account. So that while the order of knighthood was keptdistinct from the free-born citizens, it was thrown open to theslaves. The Gracchi first formed a distinct order under the title ofjudges, from their factious desire of acquiring popularity, for thepurpose of bringing contempt upon the senate. This popularspirit being subdued, after various revolutions, the authority whichwas connected with the name at length devolved upon the farm­ers of the revenue,1 and these, for some time, were a kind of thirdestate. Cicero finally established the title of the equestrian orderin his consulship, during the affair of Cataline, giving out that heproceeded from it, and endeavoured to increase its power by hisindividual popularity. From this period it clearly became the thirdbody in the republic, and the equestrian order began to be addedto the senate and the Roman people. On this account it is evennow written after the people, as being the one which was addedthe last in point of time. 1 A sestertium is equal to 1000 sestertii; the sestertium denotes a sum,the sestertius a coin; the English word sesterce is applied to the coin; itsvalue was nearly two-pence of our money, or one penny three farthings, anda sestertium, 81. Is. 6 jrf. The sum mentioned in the text would be 3,229/.3s. 4,d. See Wurm, de Pond. Num. &c. Rom. et Grsec. p. 24. 2 Adam, p. 27, remarks on the different estimation in which the " Publi-cani" were held in the city and in the provinces.