OCR Output 24f> THE DECLINE AND FALL and it was decreed in her bloody council that Constantine should be rendered in­capable of the throne: her emissaries assaulted the sleeping prince, and stabbedtheir daggers with such violence and precipitation into his eyes, as if they meantto execute a mortal sentence. An ambiguous passage of Theophanes persuadedthe annalist of the church that death was the immediate consequence of this bar­barous execution. The catholics have been deceived or subdued by the authorityof Baronius; and protestant zeal has re-echoed the words of a cardinal, desirous,as it should seem, to favour the patroness of images. Yet the blind son of Irenesurvived many years, oppressed by the court, and forgotten by the world; theIsaurian dynasty was silently extinguished; and the memory of Constantine wasrecalled only by'the nuptials of his daughter Euphrosyne with the emperor Mi­chael II. The most bigoted orthodoxy has justly execrated the unnatural mother, who maynot easily be paralleled in the history of crimes. To her bloody deed superstitionhas attributed a subsequent darkness of seventeen days; during which many vesselsin mid-day were driven from their course, as if the sun, a globe of fire so vast andso remote, could sympathise with the atoms of a revolving planet On earth, thecrime of Irene was left five years unpunished; her reign was crowned with exter­nal splendour; and if she could silence the voice of conscience, she neither heardnor regarded the reproaches of mankind. The Roman world bowed to the govern­ment of a female; and as she moved through the streets of Constantinople, thereins of her four milk-white steeds were held by as many patricians, who marchedon foot before the golden chariot of their queen. But these patricians were forthe most part eunuchs; and their black ingratitude justified, on this occasion, thepopular hatred and contempt. Raised, enriched, intrusted with the first dignitiesof the empire, they basely conspired against their benefactress: the great treasu­rer Nicephorus was secretly invested with the purple; her successor was intro­duced into the palace, and crowned at St. Sophia by the venal patriarchs In theirfirst interview, she recapitulated with dignity the revolutions of her life, gently ac­cused the perfidy of Nicephorus, insinuated that he owed his life to her unsuspi­cious clemency, and, for the throne and treasures which she resigned, solicited a de­cent and honourable retreat. His avarice refused this modest compensation; andin her exile to the isle of Lesbos, the empress earned a scanty subsistence by thelabours of her distaff. Many tyrants have reigned undoubtedly more criminal than Nicephorus, butnone perhaps have more deeply incurred the universal abhorrence of their people.His character was stained with the three odious vices of hypocrisy, ingratitude,and avarice; his want of virtue was not redeemed by any superior talents, nor hiswant of talents, by any pleasing qualifications^ Unskilful and unfortunate in war,Nicephorus was vanquished by the Saracens, and slain by the Bulgarians; andthe advantage of his death overbalanced, in the public opinion, the destruction ofa Roman army. His son and heir Stauracius escaped from the field with a mortalwound: yet six months of an expiring life were sufficient to refute his indecent,though popular declaration, that he would in all things avoid the example of hisfather. On the near prospect of his decease, Michael, the great master of thepalace, and the husband of his sister Procopia, was named by every person of thepalace and city, except by his envious brother. Tenacious of a sceptrer now fall­ing from his hand, he conspired against the life of his successor, and cherished theidea of changing to a democracy the Roman empire. But these rash projects servedonly to inflame the zeal of the people, and to remove the scruples of the candidate:Michael L accepted the purple, and before he sunk into the grave, the son of Ni­cephorus implored the clemency of his new sovereign. Had Michael in an ageof peace ascended an hereditary throne, he might have reigned and died the fatherof his people: but his mild virtues were adapted to the shade of private life, norwas he capable of controlling the ambition of his equals, or of resisting the armsof the victorious Bulgarians. While his want of ability and success exposed himto the contempt of the soldiers, the masculine spirit of his wife Procopia awakenedtheir indignation. Even the Greeks of the ninth century were provoked by theinsolence of a female, who, in the front of the standards, presumed to direct theirdiscipline and animate their valour; and their licentious clamours advised the newSemiramis to reverence the majesty of a Roman camp. After an unsuccessfultaimpaign, the emperor left, in their winter quarters of Thrace, a disaffected armyunder the command of his enemies; and their artful eloquence persuaded the sol-fliers to break the dominion of the eunuchs, to degrade the husband of Procopia,