OCR Output 82 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X. war; and when he was besieged in Babylon, there happened awonderful and prodigious vision. He was sat down at supper hia large room, and there were a great many vessels of silver, suchas were made for royal entertainments, and he had with him hisconcubines, and his friends; whereupon he came to a resolution,and commanded that those vessels of God which Nebuchadnezzarhad plundered out of Jerusalem, and had not made use of, buthad put them into his own- temple, should be brought out of thattemple. He also grew so haughty as to proceed to use them inthe midst pf his cups drinking out of them, and blasphemingagainst God. In the mean time he saw a hand proceed out otthe wall, and writing upon the wall certain syllables; at whichsight being disturbed, he called the magicians and Chaldeans to足gether, and all that sort of men that are among these Barbarians^and were able to interpret sighs and dreams, that they might ex足plain the writing to him. But when the magicians said theycould discover nothing, nor did understand it, the king was iagreat disorder of mind, and under great trouble at this surprisingaccident, so he caused it to be proclaimed through all the coun足try, and promised, that to him who could explain the writing,and give the signification couched therein, he would give him agolden chain for his neck, and leave to wear a purple garment, asdid the kings of Chaldea, and would bestow on him the third partof his own dominions. When this proclamation was made$ themagicians ran together more earnestly, and were very ambitiousto find out the importance of the writing, but still hesitated aboutit as much as before. Now when the king's * grandmother sawhim cast down at this accident, she began to encourage him, andto say, that " there was a certain captive who came from Judea,"a Jew by birth, but brought away thence by Nebuchadnezzar,"when he had destroyed Jerusalem, whose name was Daniel, a"wise man, and one of great sagacity in finding out what was"impossible for others to discover, and what was known"to God alone; who brought to light and answered such"questions to Nebuchadnezzar, as no one else was able to an-"swer, when they were consulted. She therefore desired thai"he would send for him, and inquire of him concerning th<"writing, and to condemn the unskilful ness of those that could"not find their meaning, and this, although what God signified"thereby should be of a melancholy nature." * This grandmother or mother of Baltasar, the queen Dowager of Babylon, (forshe is distinguished from his queen, Dan. v. 1O. 23.) seems to have been the famous>Jitceris, who fortified Babylon against the Medes and Persians, and in all probabi足lity governed under BalUsar, who seems to have been a weak and effeminate prince.