OCR Output 354 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. The Vejentes now renewed their incursions upon theRoman territories. Fame will have it, that some of theyouth of Fidena- were concerned in these depredations.The cognizance of this affair was assigned to L. Sergius,Q. Servilius, and Mamercus /Kmilius. Some of the de­linquents were banished to Ostia, because they could notaccount for their absence from Fidenae, thedayson whichthese trespasses happened. An additional number ofplanters was sent to the colony, who had.-the lands ofthose who fell in battle assigned them. -^\ This year was remarkable for an excessive drought.For the rains not only tailed, but the earth too dramedof its native moisture, was scarcely sufficient to supplythe fixed rivers. In other places, near the springs andrivulets which were quite dried up, the want of water-made terrible havoc among the cattle, which perishedfor thirst. Others of them were cut off' by the murrain.From them the infection spread among the people, rag­ing at first among the peasants and slaves. But it wasnot long before the city swarmed with sick. Nor weretheir bodies alone infected with the distemper, but theirminds were also seized with various superstitions, mostof them too of foreign growth. Some impostors turnedthe credulity of the people to their account, by pretend­ing to prophecy, and introducing into families new ritesin offering sacrifices; till the principal men of the statecame to be acquainted with the public nuisance, by see­ing in all the streets and chapels, foreign and uncommonexpiations for recovering the favour of the gods. The.ffidiles were then enjoined to take care, that none butthe Roman gods should be worshipped, nor these in anyother manner than that which custom had established. The chastisement of the Vejentes was reserved for C.Servilius Ahala, and L. Papirius Mugilanus, the consulsfor the following year: and even then they had a scru­ple at declaring war, or marching an army immediatelyagainst them before the Feciales should be sent to de­mand restitution: a step which they thought should beprevious to all others. It was but lately that they hadmeasured their swords with the Vejentes, at Nomenturoand Fidense, where a truce, but not a peace ensued. Thetruce was indeed expired now, but before that time theyhad been in arms. The Feciales were however dispatch­