OCR Output Chap. XI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 381 strained the violence of these men, who were in a fit of madnessagainst the patricians, he would lose those on whose account itwas most desireable to rule, and would be emperor over a desert. 5. When Claudius heard this, he restrained the violence ofthe soldiery, and received the senate into the camp, and treatedthem after an obliging manner, and went out with them present­ly to offer their thank-offerings to God, which were proper up­on his first coming to the empire. Moreover, he bestowed onAgrippa his whole paternal kingdom immediately, and added toit, besides those countries that had been given by Augustus toHerod,' Trachoniti-s and Auranitis, and still besides these, thatkingdom which was called the kingdom of Lysaniat, This gifthe declared tothe people by a decree, but ordered the magistratesto have the donation engraved on tables of brass, and to be setap in the capitol. He bestowed on his brother Herod, who wasalso his son-in-law, by marrying [his daughter] Bernice, thekingdom of Chalcis. 6. So now riches flowed in to Agrippa by his enjoyment ofso large a dominion, nor did he abuse the money he had onsmall matters, but he began to encompass Jerusalem with sucha wall, which, had it been brought to perfection, had made it im­practicable for the Romans to take it by siege; but his death,which happened at Cesarca, before he had raised the walls totheir due height, prevented him. He had then reigned threeyears,as he had governed his tetrarchies three other years. Heleft behind him three daughters, born to him by Cyprus, Ber­nice, Mariamne, and Brasilia, and a son born of the same mo­ther, whose name was Agrippa: he was left a very young child,so that Claudius made the country a Roman province, and sentCuspius Fadus to be its procurator, and after him TiberiasAlexander, who, making no alterations of the ancient laws,kept the nation in tranquillity. Now after this, Herod the kingof Chalcis died, and left behind him two sons, born to him ofhis brother's daughter Bernice; their names were Bernicianus,and Hyreanm. £He also left behind him] Aristobulus, whomhe had by his former wife, Mariamne. There was besides ano­ther brother of his that died a private person, his name was al­so Aristobulus, who left behind him a daughter, whose namewas Jotape: and these, as I have formerly said, were the chil­dren of Aristobulus the son of Herod, which Aristobulus andAlexander were born to Herod by Mariamne, and were slainby him. But as for Alexander's posterity, they reigned inArmenia. 3 C 3 CHAP.