OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 191 and calamities from the baleful influence; and these chap.expectations were abundantly fulfilled. The astro- xxx'nomers dissembled their ignorance of the nature ofthese blazing stars, which they affected to representas the floating meteors of the air; and few amongthem embraced the simple notion of Seneca and theChaldaeans, that they are only planets of a longerperiod and more eccentric motion*. Time andscience have justified the conjectures and predictionsof the Roman sage: the telescope has opened newworlds to the eyes of astronomers!; and, in the nar­row space of history and fable, one and the samecomet is already found to have revisited the earth inseven equal revolutions of five hundred and seventy-five years. The first, which ascends beyond theChristian aera one thousand seven hundred and sixty-seven years, is coeval with Ogyges, the father ofGrecian antiquity. And this appearance explainsthe tradition which Varro has preserved, that underhis reign the planet Venus changed her colour, size,figure, and course; a prodigy without example eitherin past or succeeding ages J. The second visit, inthe year eleven hundred and ninety-three, is darklyimplied in the fable of Electra the seventh of thePleiads, who have been reduced to six since the timeof the Trojan war. That nymph, the wife of Dar-danus, was unable to support the ruin of her country;she abandoned the dances of her sister orbs, fled fromthe zodiac to the north pole, and obtained, from herdishevelled locks, the name of the comet. The third • Seneca's viith book of Natural Questions displays, in the theory of comets,a philosophic mind. Yet should we not too candidly confound a vague prediction,a veniet tempus, &c. with the merit of real discoveries. f Astronomers may study Newton and Halley. I draw my humble sciencefrom the article Oomete, in the French Encyclopedic by M. d'Alembert. X A dissertation of Freret (Memoires de 1'Academie des Inscriptions, tom. x.p. 357—377), affords a happy union of philosophy and erudition. The phae-nomenon in the time of Ogyges was preserved by Varro (apud Augustin. deCivitate Dei, xxi. 8.), who quotes Castor, Dion of Naples, and Adrastus ofCyzicus—nobiles mathematici. The two subsequent periods are preserved by theUreek mycologists and the spurious books of Sibylline verses.