OCR Output 3 2 THE DECLINE AND FALL bath, by the order, or with the connivance, of the new king, who instructed histurbulent subjects to shed the blood of their sovereigns. Justinian beheld with joy the dissensions of the Goths; and the mediation ofan ally concealed and promoted the ambitious views of the conqueror. His am­bassadors, in their public audience, demanded the fortress of Lilybaeum, ten bar­barian fugitives, and a just compensation for the pillage of a small town on the Illyri-an borders; but they secretly negotiated with Theodatus, to betray the provinceof Tuscany, and tempted Amalasontha to extricate herself from danger and per­plexity, by a free surrender of the kingdom of Italy. A false and servile epistlewas subscribed by the reluctant hand of the captive queen: but the confession ofthe Roman senators, who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truth of herdeplorable situation; and Justinian, by the voice of a new ambassador, most power­fully interceded for her life and liberty. Yet the secret instructions of the same-minister were adapted to serve the cruel jealousy of Theodora, who dreaded thepresence and superior charms of a rival: he prompted, with artful and ambiguoushints, the execution of a crime so useful to the Romans;(l) received the intelligenceof her death with grief and indignation, and denounced, in his master's name, im­mortal war against the perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well as in Africa, the guiltof a usurper appeared to justify the arms of Justinian; but the forces which heprepared were insufficient for the subversion of a mighty kingdom, if their feeblenumbers had not been multiplied by the name, the spirit, and the conduct, of ahero. A chosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, and were armed withlances and bucklers, attended the person of Belisarius: his cavalry was composedof two hundred Huns, three hundred Moors, and four thousand confederates; and theinfantry consisted only of three thousand Isaurians. Steering the same course as inhis former expedition, the Roman consul cast anchor before Catana in Sicily, tosurvey the strength of the island, and to decide whether he should attempt theconquest, or peaceably pursue his voyage to the African coast. He found a fruitfulland and a friendly people. Notwithstanding the decay of agriculture, Sicily stillsupplied the granaries of Rome; the farmers were graciously exempted from theoppression of their military quarters; and the Goths, who trusted the defence ofthe island to the inhabitants, had some reason to complain, that their confidencewas ungratefully betrayed: instead of soliciting and expecting aid of the king ofItaly, they yielded to the first summons a cheerful obedience; and this province,the first fruits of the Punic wars, was again, after a long separation, united to the Ro­man empire. (2) The Gothic garrison of Palermo, which alone attempted to re­sist, was reduced, after a short siege, by a singular stratagem. Belisarius intro­duced his ships into the deepest recess of the harbour; their boats were laborious­ly hoisted with ropes and pulleys to the topmast head, and he filled them witharchers, who, from that superior station, commanded the ramparts of the city.After this easy, though successful campaign, the conqueror entered Syracuse intriumph, at the head of his victorious bands, distributing gold medals to the people,on the day which so gloriously terminated the year of the consulship. He passed thewinter season in the palace of the ancient kings, amidst the ruins of a Grecian co­lony, which once extended to a circumference of two-and-twenty miles:(3) but inthe spring, about the festival of Easter, the prosecution of his designs was interrupt­ed by a dangerous revolt of the African forces. Carthage was saved by the pre­sence of Belisarius, who suddenly landed with a thousand guards. Two thousandsoldiers of doubtful faith returned to the standard of their old commanderr and hemarched, without hesitation, above fifty miles to seek an enemy whom he affectedto pity and despise. Eight thousand rebels trembled at his approach; they wererouted at the first onset, by the dexterity of their master: and this ignoble victorywould have restored the peace of Africa, if the conqueror had not been hastily re- (Epist. ii. 96.) celebrates two woody islands that floated on its waters; iF a fable, how crednlons the ancients I—if a fact, how careless the moderns ! Yet, since Pliny, the island may have been fixed by new and gradualsuccessions. (1) Yet Procopias discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c 16.) by confessing, that in his public history hehad not spoken the truth. See the epistles from queen Gundelina to the empress Theodora (Var. 10. 20,21.23. and observes a suspicious word, de ilia persona, &c.) with the elaborate Commentary of Buat (torn. a. P»177—185.) „(2) For the conquest of Sicily, compare the narrative of Proeopius with the complaints of Totila. (Gothic2jJ. c. f. lib. iii. c. 16.) The Gothic queen had lately relieved that thankless bland (Var. 9,10, !!•) (j)The ancient magnitude and splendour of the five quarters of Syracuse, are delineated by Cicero fin Ver-ter Actio 2. lib. iv. e. 52,53.,) Strabo (lib. vi. p. 415.,) and d'Orville Sicula (torn. ii. p. 174—202.) The newsonttm tored by Augustus, shrunk towards the iiland.