OCR Output CHAP. LII. 495 and prosperity: they sought riches in the occupations ofindustry, fame in the pursuits of literature, and happinessin the tranquillity of domestic life. War was no longerthe passion of the Saracens; and the increase of pay, therepetition of donatives, were insufficient to allure theposterity of those voluntary champions who had crowdedto the standard of Abubeker and Omar for the hopes ofspoil and of paradise. introduc- Under the reign of the Ommiades, the studiestionof of the Moslems were confined to the interpreta-among thetion of the Koran, and the eloquence and poetryA. D*.8113' of their native tongue. A people continually ex-sis' &c Posed to the dangers of the field must esteem thehealing powers of medicine, or rather of surgery;but the starving physicians of Arabia murmured a com­plaint, that exercise and temperance deprived them ofthe greatest part of their practice.* After their civil anddomestic wars, the subjects of the Abbassides, awakeningfrom this mental lethargy, found leisure, and felt cu­riosity, for the acquisition of profane science. Thisspirit was first encouraged by the caliph Almansor, who,besides his knowledge of the Mahometan law, had ap­plied himself with success to the study of astronomy.But when the sceptre devolved to Almamon, the seventhof the Abbassides, he completed the designs of his grand­father, and invited the Muses from their ancient seats.His ambassadors at Constantinople, his agents in Arme­nia, Syria, and Egypt, collected the volumes of Grecianscience: at his command they were translated by the mostskilful interpreters into the Arabic language; his subjectswere exhorted assiduously to peruse these instructivewritings; and the success of Mahomet assisted withpleasure and modesty at the assemblies and disputationsof the learned. He was not ignorant (says Abulpha- 1 'I lie Gulislan (p. 289.) relates the conversation of Mahomet and a physician.(Epistol. Renaudot. in Fabricius, Bibliot. Grec. torn. 1. p. 815.) The prophet him­self was skilled in the art of medicine ; and Gagnier (Vie de. Mahomet, torn. 3. p.394—105.) has given an extract of the aphorisms which are extant under his name.