OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. the baptism and auspicious name of the first soldier whoembarked; and the proselyte was adopted into the familyof his spiritual parents/ Belisarius and Antonina. Be­fore they touched the shores of Africa, this holy kindreddegenerated into sensual love; and as Antonina soonoverleaped the bounds of modesty and caution, the Ro­man general was alone ignorant of his own dishonour.During their residence at Carthage, he surprised the twolovers in a subterraneous chamber, solitary, warm, andalmost naked. Anger flashed from his eyes. "Withthe help of this young man (said the unblushing Anto­nina), I was secreting our most precious effects from theknowledge of Justinian." The youth resumed his gar­ments, and the pious husband consented to disbelieve theevidence of his own senses. From this pleasing andperhaps voluntary delusion, Belisarius was awakened atSyracuse, by the officious information of Macedonia:and that female atteridant, after requiring an oath for hersecurity, produced two chamberlains, who, like herself,had often beheld the adulteries of Antonina. A hastyflight into Asia saved Theodosius from the justice of aninjured husband, who had signified to one of his guardsthe order of his death; but the tears of Antonina, andher artful seduction, assured the credulous hero of herinnocence; and he stooped, against his faith and judg­ment, to abandon those imprudent friends who had pre­sumed to accuse or doubt the chastity of his wife. Therevenge of a guilty woman is implacable and bloody:the unfortunate Macedonia, with the two witnesses, weresecretly arrested by the minister of her cruelty: theirtongues were cut out, their bodies were hacked intosmall pieces, and their remains were cast into the sea ofSyracuse. A rash, though judicious saying of Constan-tine, "I would sooner have punished the adultress thanthe boy," was deeply remembered by Antonina: and > Compare the Vandalio War (lib. i, c. 12.) with the Anecdotes, (c. 1.) and Ale-mauuus. (p. 2, 3.) This mode of haptismal adoption was revived by Leo the phi­losopher.