OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. archbishop was that of a Barbarian conqueror: and XVIII • _each moment of his reign was polluted by cruelty and avarice. The Catholics of Alexandria and Egyptwere abandoned to a tyrant, qualified, by natureand education, to exercise the office of persecution; Alexandria but he oppressed with an impartial hand the various and Egypt. inhabitants of his extensive diocese. The primateof Egypt assumed the pomp and insolence of hislofty station; but he still betrayed the vices of hisbase and servile extraction. The merchants of Alex­andria were impoverished by the unjust, and almostuniversal monopoly, which he acquired, of nitre, salt,paper, funerals, &c. and the spiritual father of a greatpeople condescended to practise the vile and perni­cious arts of an informer. The Alexandrians couldnever forget, nor forgive, the tax, which he sug­gested, on all the houses of the city; under an ob­solete claim, that the royal founder had conveyed tohis successors, the Ptolemies and the Caesars, theperpetual property of the soil. The Pagans, whohad been flattered with the hopes of freedom andtoleration, excited his devout avarice; and the richtemples of Alexandria were either pillaged or in­sulted by the haughty prelate, who exclaimed, in aloud and threatening tone, "How long will these"sepulchres be permitted to stand?" Under thereign of Constantius, he was expelled by the fury,or rather by the justice* of the people; and it wasnot without a violent struggle, that the civil andmilitary powers of the state could restore his au­thority, and gratify his revenge. The messengerwho proclaimed at Alexandria the accession of Julian, A.D. 361, announced the downfal of the archbishop. George, Nov. 30. . . .. . , . . . r 1 with two of his obsequious ministers, count Diodorus,and Dracontius, master of the mint, were igno-miniously dragged in chains to the public prison.racred b^* At tne en(* °^ twenty-four days, the prison was forcedthe people, 0pen by the rage of a superstitious multitude, im­