OCR Output 412 [BOOK XL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. that are our faithful subjects, greeting. Manymen there are who, on account of the great­ness of the benefits bestowed on them, and be­cause of the honour which they have obtainedfrom the kind treatment of those that bestow­ed it, are not only injurious to their inferiors,but do not scruple to do evil to those who havebeen their benefactors; as if they would takeaway gratitude from among men. And bytheir insolent abuse of such benefits as theynever expected, they turn the abundance theyhave against those that are the authors of it;and suppose they shall lie concealed fromGodin that case, and avoid that vengeance whichcomes from him. Some of these men, whenthey have had the management of affairs com­mitted to them by their friends, and bearingprivate malice against some others, by de­ceiving those that have the power, persuadethem to be angry at such as have done themno harm; till they are in danger of perishing;and this by lying accusations and calumnies.Nor is this state of things to be discovered byancient examples, or such as we have merelylearned by report; but by some examples ofsuch impudent attempts under our own eyes.So that it is not fit to attend any longer to ca­lumnies, and accusations; nor to the persua­sions of others; but to determine what anyone knows of himself to have been really doneand to punish what justly deserves it, and togrant favours to such as are innocent. Thishath been the case of Haman, the son ofAmedatha; by birth an Amalekite, and alienfrom the blood of the Persians: who, when hewas hospitably entertained by us, and partookof that kindness which we bear to all men toso great a degree, as to be called our father;and to be all along worshipped, and to havehonour paid him by all in the second rankafter the royal honour due to ourselves, he could not bear his good fortune, nor governthe magnitude of his prosperity with soundreason. Nay he made a conspiracy againstme, who gave him his authority: by endea­vouring to take away Mordecai my benefactor,and my saviour; and by basely and treache­rously requiring to have Esther, the partnerof my life, and of my dominion, brought todestruction. For he contrived by this meansto *deprive me of my faithful friends, andtransfer the government to others. But since I perceived that these Jews thatwere by this pernicious fellow devoted todestruction, were not wicked men; but con­ducted their lives in the best manner; andwere men dedicated to the worship of thatGod who hath preserved the kingdom to meand my ancestors: I do not only free themfrom the punishment which the former epistle,which was sent by Haman, ordered to be in­flicted on them; to which if you refuse obe­dience you shall do well: but I will that theyhave all honour paid them. Accordingly Ihave hanged up the man that contrived suchthings against them, with his family, beforethe gates of Shushan: that punishment beingsent upon him from God, who seeth all things.And I give you in charge, that you publiclypropose a copy of this epistle through all mykingdom, that the Jews may be permittedpeaceably to use their own laws; and thatyou assist them: that at the same seasonwhereto their miserable estate did belong,they may defend themselves the very sameday from unjust violence: the thirteenth dayof the twelfth month, which is Adar. ForGod hath made that day a day of salvation,instead of a day of destruction to them. Andmay it be a good day to those that wish uswell; and a memorial of the punishment ofthe conspirators against us! And I will that properly revoke his former barbarous decree, for the uni­versal slaughter of the Jews; but only empowered andencouraged the Jews to fight for their lives, and to killtheir enemies, if they attempted their destruction, seemsto have been, that old law of the Medes and Persians, notyet laid aside, that whatever decree was signed both bythe king, and his lords, could not be changed, but re­mained unalterable, Daniel vi. 7, 8, 9, 12, IS, 17. Estheri. 19. viii. 8. And Haman having engrossed the royal fa­vour, might perhaps have himself signed this decree forthe Jews' slaughter, instead of the ancient lords; and somight have rendered it, by their rulers, irrevocable. * These words give an intimation, as if Artaxerxes sus­pected a deeper design in Haman than openly appeared: viz. that knowing the Jews would be faithful to "him, andthat he could never transfer the crown to his own family,who was an Agagite, Esther iii. 1, 10. or of the posterityof Agag the old king of the Amalekites, 1 Sam. xv. 8, 32,33. while they were alive, and spread over all his do­minions, he therefore endeavoured to destroy them. Noris it to me improbable, that those 75,000 of the Jews*enemies who were soon destroyed by the Jews, on thepermission of the king, which must be on some greatoccasion, were Amalekites, their old and hereditary ene­mies, Exod. xvii. 14, 15. and that thereby was fulfilledBalaam's prophecy, "Amalek was the first of the na­tions; but his latter end shall be that he perish for ever."Numb. xxiv. 20.