OCR Output 776 ROMA, ROMA. a section of the area at its eastern extremity, in sizeabout one-third of the whole forum. An argumentadvanced by Becker himself (Ifarxlb. p. '278) seemsdecisive against both these views, namely, that wenever hear any building on the S. side of the forumspoken of as bein^ on the comitium. Yet in spiteof this just remark, he ends by adopting the theoryof Bunsen, according to which the comitium beganat or near the ruin of the three columns and ex­tended to the eastern extremity of the forum:and thus both the temple of Vesta and the Regiamust have stood very close to it. The two chiefreasons which seern to have led him to this con­clusion are, the situation of the rostra, and thatof the Tribunal I'raetoris. Respecting the former,we shall have occasion to speak further on. Theargument drawn from the latter, which is by far themore important one, we shall examine at once. Itproceeds as follows (Handb, p. 280): "The originalTribunal Pnietoris was on the comitium (Lit. ri.15, xxix. 16; GelL xx. I, 11, 47 (from the XII.Tables); Varro, L. L. v. 32. p. 154; Tlaut. Pom.iii. 6. 11 ; Macroh. Sat. ii. 12), which, however, isalso mentioned as being merely on the forum.(Liy. xxvii. 50, si 2, 44.) But close to the tri­bunal was the Puteal Libonis or Scribonianum, andthis is expressly mentioned as being near the FornixFabius, the Atrium Vestae, the rostra, and lastlythe aedes Divi Julii (Porphyr. ad Uor. Ep. i. 10.8; Schol. Cruq. Ib. Id. ad. Sat. ii. 6. 35; Fest. p.333; Schol. ad Pers. Sat. iv. 49); consequently thecomitium also must have been close to all theseobjects." We presume that Becker's meaning in this passageis, that the Jirst or original tribunal was on the co­mitium, and that it was afterwards moved into theforum. It could hardly have been both on thecomitium and forum, though Becker seems to hintat such a possibility, by saving that it is "alsomentioned as being merely on the forum;" and indeedthere seems to be no physical impossibility in theway, since it is evident that the tribunal at first wasmerely a movable chair ("dictator— stipatus eamultitudine, sella in comitio posita, viatorem ad M.Manlium misit: qui--agmine ingenti ad tribunalvenit," Liv. vi. 15). But if that was his meaning,the passages he cites in proof of it do not bear himout. In the first Livy merely says that a certainletter was carried through the forum to the tribunalof the praetor, the latter of course being on thecomitium (*'eae literae per forum ad tribunal pnie­toris latae," xxvii. 50). The other two passages citedcontain nothing at all relative to the subject, nor canthere be any doubt that in the early times of theRepublic the comitium was the usual place on whichthe praetor took his seat. But that the tribunal wasmoved from the comitium to the forum is shown bythe scholiasts on Horace whom Becker quotes. ThusPorpbviio says: "Puteal autem Libonis sedes prae-toris fuit prope A renin Fabianum, dictumque quoda Libone illic piimum tribunal et subsellia locatasint." Primnm here is not an adjective to be joinedwith tribunal—i. e. "that the first or original tri­bunal was placed there by Libo;" but an adverb —''that the tribunal was first placed there by Libo."The former version would be nonsense, becauseLibo's tribunal could not possibly have been thefirst. Besides the meaning is unambiguously shownby the Schol. Cruq.: "puteal Libonis; tribunal:Quod autem ait Libonis, hinc sumsit, quod isjtrimus tribunal in foro staUitrit" If the authority of these scholiasts is suspicions as to th* fart rf'£*removal, thoueh there are no apparent pr«aJ»Srsu-piciun. ret Becker at all event is not is a ac­tion to invalidate their testimony. Hetusqthem to prove the situation of the puteal; ithey are good for that, they are also pnd tapthe removal of the tribunal. Yet with ptaticonsistency, he tacitly assume* that the 1had always stood in its original place, tiat a,* Icomitium, and by the puteal, contrary to the «evidence that the latter was on the forum. (*locus erat in foro," Sch. Cruq. ad Sat. u.€»lLibo flourished about a century and a half \Christ. [See Diet of Buyr. Vol*. II. p. 779 ]all the examples cited by Becker in which the dis alluded to as being on the comitium, aitto this date. The first two in note 457 n^flpassed over, as they relate not to the rxatttrieflthe dictator and consuls; nevertheless, they ■anterior to the time of Libo, the first belonpaf Iyear n. c. 382 and the second to 204. Tfa* |from (Jellius " ad praetorem in comitinm'fcquotation from the XII. Tables, is of MValprior to the same period. The possace fcl(v. § 155. Mull.), which derives th* aaacomitium from the practice of coming togetlxrfl(coire) for the decision of suits, of coon* i"the very origin of the place. APlautus can prove nothing, since he died ia century before the change effected by LiW 1passage alluded to in Macrobiaa (ii. 12) ithe quotation from the speech of C. Titioaalof the Lex Fannia: M Inde ad comitium ilitem suam faciant; veniunt in comitiom I&c." But the Lex Fannia was passed in a.C(Macrob. ii. 13); or even if wa put itlater, in B. c. 160, still before the proS»N»j|of Ubo's alteration; who appears to have blbunc in n. c. 149. Thus the argument *merely break down, but absolutely recall Iits inventor; for if, as the Scholiaform us, Libo moved the tribunal fromtium to the forum, and placed it near tfat]then it is evident that this port of the anahave been the comitium. The comitium. then, being neither m tnor the east sides of the forum, we moat 1fortune on the north and west, when it ihoned we shall be more successful. The ithod which promises a satisfactory result a, iit with other objects with which we know at!Iteen connected. Now one of these is the 1We learn from Festus that the comuiaaineath the Vulcanal: "in Volcanadi, quod <Comitium" (p. 290, MfilL). In like r.ucasius describes the Vulcanal as t-Uaiiaf 1above the forum, using, of course, the atOlin a general sense for the whole area, iithe comitium: ical rat irwoSovf Irrapeae*«V 'H^aitTTou Xf17uaT1C,,,"r** **P*. i****** 1(TTTjfcoTi tT|I £>opa5 (ii. 50). Where t«j4lto be taken of a proper temple (faei), bat imerely an area consecrated to the pod, aaat 1probably an altar. It was a rule that a 1Vulcan should be outside the town ;Vhrand thus in later times we find one in the (Martina ('' tactam de caelo aedem in camya VLiv. xxiv. 10). That the Volcanml im *open space is manifest from its afpeilaljaB tand from the accounts we read uf rain faftit (Liv. xxxix. 46, xl. 19), of I iiiiilifl