OCR Output CHAP. LII. 53:3 moment in the list of conquest; the emperor Zimiseesencamped in the paradise of Damascus, and acceptedthe ransom of a submissive people; and the torrent wasonly stopped by the impregnable fortress of Tripoli, onthe sea-coast of Phrem'cia. Since the days ofthe EU- Heraclius, the Euphrates, below the passage ofmount Taurus, had been impervious, and almostinvincible, to the Greeks. The river yielded a free pas­sage to the victorious Zimisees ; and the historian mayimitate the speed with which he overran the once famouscities of Samosata, Edessa, Martyropolis, Amida," andNisibis, the ancient limit of the empire in the neigh­bourhood of the Tigris. His ardour was quickened bythe desire of grasping the virgin treasures of Ecbatana, "*a well-known name, under which the Byzantine writerhas concealed the capital of the Abbassides. The con­sternation of the fugitives had already diffused the ter­ror of his name; but the fancied riches of Bagdad hadalready been dissipated by the avarice and prodigalityDanger of of domestic tyrants. The prayers of the people,Bagdad. an(l ^ne stern demands of the lieutenant of theBowides, required the caliph to provide for the defenceof the city. The helpless Mothi replied, that his arms,his revenues, and his provinces, had been torn from hishands, and that he was ready to abdicate a dignitywhich he was unable to support. The emir was inexo­rable; the furniture of the palace was sold; and thepaltry price of forty thousand pieces of gold was instantly m The text of Leo the Deacon, in the corrupt names of Emeta and Myctarsim,reveals the cities of Amida and Martyropolis. (Miafarekin. See Abulfeda, Geo-graph. p. 245. vers. Reiske.) Of the former, Leo observes, urbsmunita etillustris;of the latter, clara atque conspicua opibusque et pecore, reliquis ejus provinciiiurbibus atque oppidis longe prtestans. b Ut et Echatana pergeret Agarenorumque regiam everteret aiunt enim urbium qus' usquam sunt ac toto orbe eiistunt felicissimam esse auroque di-tissimarn. (Leo Diacon. apud Fagium, torn. 4. p. 34.) This splendid descrip­tion suits only with Bagdad, and cannot possibly apply either to Hamadan, thetrue Echatana, (d'Anville, Geog. Ancienne, torn. 2. p. 237.) or Tauris, which hascommonly been mistaken for that city. The name of Echatana, in the same inde­finite sense, (a transferred by a more classic authority (Cicero pro Lege Manili»,c. 4.) to the royal seat of Mithridcues, king of Fontus.