OCR Output 4H THE DECLINE AND PALL part of the garrison. The flames were extinguished by the care ofConstantine, and the remains of Susa preserved from total destruc­tion. About forty miles from thence, a more severe contest awaitedhim. A numerous army of Italians was assembled under the lieu-Battle of tenants of Maxentius in the plains of Turin. Its principal strengthconsisted in a species of heavy cavalry, which the Romans, sincethe decline of their discipline, had borrowed from the nations of thev East. The horses, as well as the men, were clothed in completearmour, the joints of which were artfully adapted to the motionsof their bodies. The aspect of this cavalry was formidable, theweight almost irresistible; and as, on this occasion, their generalsliad drawn them up in a compact column or wedge, with a fliarppoint, and with spreading flanks, they flattered themselves that theyshould easily break and trample down the army of Constantine.They might perhaps have succeeded in their design, had nottheir experienced adversary embraced the same method of defence,which in similar circumstances had been practised by Aurelian.The skilful evolutions of Constantine divided and baffled this massycolumn of cavalry. The troops of Maxentius fled in confusion to­wards Turin; and as the gates of the city were (hut against them,very few escaped the sword of the victorious pursuers. By thisimportant service, Turin deserved to experience the clemency andeven favour of the conqueror. He made his entry into the imperialpalace of Milan, and almost all the cities of Italy between the Alpsand the Po not only acknowledged the power, but embraced withzeal the party of Constantine s6.Siege and From Milan to Rome, the Æmilian and Flaminian highwaysy'apnas opened an easy march of about four hundred miles; but thoughConstantine was impatient to encounter the tyrant, he prudentlyturned his arms against another army of Italians, who, "by theirstrength and position, might either oppose his progress, or, in cafe#f a misfortune, might intercept his retreat. Ruricius Pompeianus, 3 a general