OCR Output CHAP. 53. ROMAN HISTORY. 185 tlie danger,. The testimony of his colleague Virginiustoo, had its own weight, as he generously shared withhim the honour of the success: but what turned the scaleentirely in his favour, was their shame for the sentencethey passed on Menenius, so much was their dispositionchanged upon reflection. CHAP. LIII. War with the Vejentes and SubintSi \ O sooner were their domestic trouble.-, over, than a •war broke out wiih the Vejentes, with whom the Sabineshad joined in a confederacy. The consul,- PubliusValerius, having called in the Latins and Hernici asauxiliaries, was ser.t against Veii- with an army, andimmediately opened the campaign by attacking the campof the Sabines, which they had set down before the wallsof their allies. This struck them wiih such consterna­tion, thai whilst they run different ways in broken com­panies to repel the assailants, the gate where the grandattack began, was carried by the Romans. Within therampart, it was not a contest, but a massacre. Theconfusion from the camp, found its way to the city, andput the Vejentes in such terror, that they run to their arms,asif their city had been taken.' Some of them fly totite assistance of the Sabines, whilst others fall upon theRomans with all their force, who were totally engagedin Carrying the camp. They fell back a little in someconfusion; but recovering themselves, faced about, andforming a double front, made head against both armies.The horse too, by orders of the consul, charging theEtrurians, broke and routed them entirely, Thus were two armies defeated, and two of the mostopulent and powerful of all the neighbouring states, sub­dued in the same instant of time. Daring these opera-tions at Veii, the .ffiqui and Volsci had encamped in the,Latin territories, and were ravaging the country. With-.out a general, or any other assistance from Rome, theLatins, in conjunction with the Hernici, forced theircamp, and possessed themselves of a va.t booty, besideswhat had been taken from them.. Tlie.consul-C, Nan-