OCR Output £10 THE DECLINE AND FALL tests the state of religion in that city ahout the middle of the thirdcentury, and after a peace of thirty-eight years. The clergy, atthat time, consisted of a bishop, forty-six presbyters, seven deacons,as many sub-deacons, forty-two acolythes, and fifty readers, exor­cists, and porters. The number of widows, of the infirm, and ofthe poor, who were maintained by the oblations of the faithful,amounted to fifteen hundred '6?. From reason, as well as from theexample of Antioch, we may venture to estimate the Christians ofRome at about fifty thousand. The populousness of that greatcapital cannot perhaps be exactly ascertained; but the most modestcalculation will not surely reduce it lower than a million of inhabitants,of whom the Christians might constitute at the most a twentieth . 168 part in Africa and The western provincials appeared to have derived the knowledgeprovinces."1 of Christianity from the fame source which had diffused amongthem the language, the sentiments, and the manners of Rome. Inthis more important circumstance, Africa, as well as Gaul, weregradually fashioned to the imitation of the capital. Yet notwith­standing the many favourable occasions which might invite theRoman missionaries to visit their Latin provinces, it was late beforethey passed either the sea or the Alps 169; nor can we discover inthose great countries any assured traces either of faith or of perse­cution that ascend higher than the reign of the Antonines'70. Theflow progress of the gospel in the cold climate of Gaul, was ex­tremely different from the eagerness with which it seems to havebeen received on the burning sands of Africa. The African Chris­tians soon formed one of the principal members of the primitivechurch. The practice introduced into that province, of appointingbissiops to the most inconsiderable towns, and very frequently tothe most obscure villages, contributed to multiply the splendor andimportance of their religious societies, which during the course ofthe third century were animated by the zeal of Tertullian, directed * i by