OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMriRE. 331 mercenary friendship of the Roman prince had been chap. purchased with costly and important gifts: the strong _ cities of Martyropolis and Dara were restored, andthe Persarmenians became the willing subjects of anempire, whose eastern limit was extended, beyondthe example of former times, as far as the banks ofthe Araxes and the neighbourhood of the Caspian *. While the majesty of the Roman name was revived Pride, po-in the East, the prospect of Europe is less pleasing po£erof theand less glorious. By the departure of the Lom- |j!*?nofbards, and the ruin of the Gepidae, the balance of a. d. 570power was destroyed on the Danube; and the Avarsspread their permanent dominion from the foot ofthe Alps to the sea-coast of the Euxine. The reignof Baian is the brightest aera of their monarchy;their chagan, who occupied the rustic palace ofAttila, appears to have imitated his character andpolicy f; but as the same scenes were repeated in asmaller circle, a minute representation of the copywould be devoid of the greatness and novelty of theoriginal. The pride of the second Justin, of Ti­berius, and Maurice, was humbled by a proud Bar­barian, more prompt to inflict, than exposed tosuffer, the injuries of war; and as often as Asia wasthreatened by the Persian arms, Europe was op­pressed by the dangerous inroads, or costly friend­ship, of the Avars. When the Roman envoys ap­proached the presence of the chagan, they werecommanded to wait at the door of his tent, till, atthe end perhaps of ten or twelve days, he conde­scended to admit them. If the substance or thestyle of their message was offensive to his ear, he in- * The whole series of the tyranny of Hormouz, the revolt of Bahrain, and theflight and restoration of Chosroes, is related by two contemporary Greets—moreconcisely by Evagrius (L vi. c. 16, 17, 18, 19)—and most diffusely by Theo.phylact Simocatta (1. iii. c. 6—18. 1. iv. c. 1—16. 1. v. c . 1—15); succeedingcompilers, Zonaras and Cedrenus, can only transcribe and abridge. f A general idea of the pride and power of the chagan may be taken fromMenander (Excerpt. Legat. p. 117, &c.) and Theophylact (1. i. c. 3.1. vii. c. 15),whose eight books are much more honourable to the Avar than to the Romanprince.