OCR Output 320 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV, Only gentlemen of consular dignity, who were not presentat these meetings. Claudius's advice armed the handsof the consuls against the tribunes r but the Quintii,Cincinnatus, and Capitolinus declared against blood andslaughter, or even ottering violence to the persons ofthose, whom, by a solemn engagement with the people,they had obliged themselves to hold sacred and inviola­ble. In these private assemblies, it was at last agreed,that they should allow military tribunes, with consularpower, to be chosen indifferently out of either order;but that the mode of election with respect to consulsshould suffer no alteration. This measure was received, and cordially embracedboth by the people and their tribunes. The Comitiawas then summoned tor the election of three militarytribunes with consular power: upon which, all thosewho had distinguished themselves most in the cause ofsedition, either in speaking or acting, especially the tri-bunitian gentlemen, ran on all' sides of the forum, dres­sed in white robes, soliciting votes. The Patricians see­mg them so active, and despairing of obtaining anyoffice of distinction, from a people so exasperated, at thesame time, were there hopes of succeeding, unable tobear the thoughts of associating with colleagues of Ple­beian rank, they were at first determined not to stand-for the office. At last however, yielding to the remon­strances of the leading men of their party, they offeredtheir services fo fill the new offices, that they might notseem to have abandoned their country with their sharein its government. The result of this assembly shewed,that there is a material difference between a people inthe heat and fury of disputes for liberty and honour, andwhen they act with dispassionate coolness afte.r these dis­putes are over. The people elected none to the office of military tri­bunes, but Patricians only, being fully satisfied, thatregard had been shown to their demand. Where shallwe now find in any one man, that moderation, thatequity, that greatness of soul, which were then so cou.-spicuous in a whole, people?