OCR Output an. 334.] 417 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. renounced Darius; and, taking with him seventhousand of his own subjects, he came toAlexander. And finding him beginning thesiege of Tyre, he said to him, that he de­livered up to him these men, who came out ofplaces under his dominion; and gladly ac­cepted of him for his lord, instead of Darius.So when Alexander had received him kindly,Sanballat thereupon took courage, and spaketo him about his present affair. He told him,that he had a son-in-law, Manasseh, who wasbrother to the high-priest Jaddua; and thatthere were many others of his own nation nowwith him, that were desirous to have a templebuilt in the places subject to him: that itwould be for the king's advantage to havethe strength of the Jews divided into twoparts; lest the nation being of one mind andunited, upon any attempt for innovation,might prove troublesome to kings; as it hadformerly proved to the kings of Assyria.Hereupon Alexander gave the desired per­mission to Sanballat; who used the utmostdiligence, and built the temple, and madeManasseh the priest: and deemed it a greatreward, that his daughter's children shouldhave that dignity. But when the sevenmonths of the siege of Tyre were over, andthe two months of the siege of Gaza, San­ballat died. Now Alexander, when he hadtaken Gaza, made haste to go up to Jerusa­lem. And Jaddua the high-priest, when heheard that, was in an agony, and under ter­ror; as not knowing how he should meet theMacedonians; since the king was displeasedat his disobedience. He therefore ordainedthat the people should make supplications,and should join with him in offering sacrificeto God; whom he besought to protect thatnation, and to deliver them from the perilsthat were coming upon them. God howeverwarned him in a dream, which came uponhim after he had offered sacrifice, that heshould take courage, and adorn the city, andopen the gates; that the rest should appearin white garments; but that he and the priestsshould meet the king in the habits proper totheir order; without the dread of any illconsequences; which the providence of Godwould prevent. When Jaddua rose from hissleep, he greatly rejoiced; and declared toall the warning he had received from God:and having acted entirely according to his dream, he awaited the coming of the king. When he understood that Alexander wasnot far from the city, he went out in proces­sion, with the priests, and the multitude ofthe citizens. The procession was venerable,and the manner of it different from that ofother nations. It reached to a place calledSapha; which name, translated into Greek,signifies a prospect; for you have thence aprospect both of Jerusalem and of the tem­ple: and when the Phoenicians and the Chal-dees* that followed him, thought they shouldhave liberty to plunder the city, and tormentthe high-priest to death; which the king'sdispleasure fairly promised them, the veryreverse happened. For when the multitudeappeared at a distance in white garments,while the priests stood clothed with fine linen,and the high-priest in purple and scarletclothing, with his mitre on his head; havingthe golden plate whereon the name of Godwas engraven; Alexander approached byhimself, and adored that name, and first sa­luted the high-priest. The Jews also didaltogether salute Alexander, and encompasshim about. Hereupon the kings of Syria,and the rest were surprised at what Alexan­der had done, and supposed him disorderedin his mind. However, Parmenio alone wentup to him, and asked him how it came topass, that when all others adored him, heshould adore the high-priest of the Jews?To whom he replied, "I did not adore him,but that God who hath honoured him withhis high-priesthood. For I saw this personin a dream, in this very habit, when I was atDios in Macedonia. Who, when I was con­sidering with myself, how I might obtain thedominion of Asia, exhorted me to make nodelay; but boldly to pass over the sea thither:for that he would conduct my army, andwould give me the dominion over the Persians.Whence it is that having seen no other in thathabit, and now seeing this person in it, andremembering that vision, and the exhortationwhich I had in my dream, I believe that Ibring this army under the divine conduct, andshall therewith conquer Darius, and destroythe power of the Persians; and that all thingswill succeed according to what is in my ownmind." When he had said this to Parmenio, and * Cutheans.