OCR Output 224 TITUS WALLS UP THE CITY. [B. V. than that is reserved for them. However, Titus did not thinkit fit for so great an army to lie entirely idle, and that yet itwas in vain to fight with those that would he destroyed oneby another : he also showed them how impracticable it was tocast up any more banks for want of materials, and to guardagainst the Jews' coming still more impracticable; as also,that to encompass the whole city round with his army was notvery easy, by reason of its magnitude, and the difficulty ofthe situation, and on other accounts dangerous upon the salliesthe Jews might make out of the city. For although theymight guard the known passages out of the place, yet wouldthey, when they found themselves under the greatest distress,contrive secret passages out, as being well acquainted withall such places; and if any provisions were carried in bystealth, the siege would thereby be longer delayed. He alsoowned, that he was afraid that the length of time thus to beepent would diminish the glory of his success: for though itbe true that length of time will perfect every thing, yet thatto do what we do in a little time is still necessary to the gain­ing reputation: that, therefore, his opinion was, that if theyaimed at quickness, joined with security, they must build awall round about the whole city, which was, he thought, theonly way to prevent the Jews from coming out any way, andthat then they would either entirely despair of saving thecity, and so would surrender it up to him, or be still the moreeasily conquered, when the famine had farther weakenedthem. For that besides this wall he would not lie entirely atrest afterward, but would take care then to have banks raisedagain, when those that would oppose them were become weaker.But that if any one should think such a work to be too great,and not to be finished without much difficulty, he ought toconsider that it is not fit for Romans to undertake any smallwork; and that none but God himself could with ease ac­complish any great thing whatsoever. 2. These arguments prevailed with the commanders. SoTitus gave orders that the army should be distributed to theirseveral shares of this work; and, indeed, there now cameupon the soldiers a certain divine fury, so that they did not