OCR Output Chap. Vil. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 851 ly impossible, who are still more ready to lose their lives thanto leave off that divine worship which they have been wontto pay unto God. Alexandra, therefore, discoursed with thosethat had the keeping of these strongholds, that it was properfor them to deliver the same to her, and to Herod's sons, lest,upon his death, any other person should seize upon the go­vernment; and that upon his recovery none could keep themmore safely for him than those of his own family. These wordswere not by them at all taken in good part; and as they had beenin former times faithful [to Herod,] they resolved to continueso more than ever, both because they hated Alexandra, and be­cause they thought it a sort of impiety to despair of Herod's re­covery while he was yet alive, for they had been his old friends;and one of them, whose name was Achiabus, was his cousin-ger-man. They sent messengers therefore to acquaint him withAlexandra's design; so he made no longer delay, but gave or­ders to have her slain: yet was it still with difficulty, and afterhe had endured great pain, that he got clear of his distemper.He was still sorely afflicted both in mind and body, and madevery uneasy, and readier than ever upon all occasions to inflictpunishment upon those that fell under his hand. He also slewthe most intimate of his friends, Costobarus, and Lysimachus,and Gadias, who was also called Antipater; as also Dositheus,and that upon the following occasion. 9. Costobarus was an Idumean by birth, and one of principal £, /dignity among them, and one whose ancestors had been priestsX.to the Kose, whom the Idumeans had [formerly] esteemed as a/god; but after Hyrcanus had made a change in their politicalgovernment, and made them receive the Jewish customs, andlaw, Herod madeCostobarus governojiof Idumeaand Gaza, and wife; and this was upon his slaugh­ ter of [his uncle] Joseph, whoJiadjhaLgQyernment before, aswe have relateoTalreadyT Wtren Costobarus had gotten to be sohighly advanced, it pleased him, and was more than he hopedfor, and he was more and more puffed up by his good success,and in a little while he exceeded all bounds, and did not thinkfit to obey what Herod as their ruler, commanded him, or thatthe Idumeans should make use of the Jewish customs, or be sub­ject to them. He therefore sent to Cleopatra, and informed herthat the Idumeans had been always under his progenitors, andthat for the same reason it was but just that she should desire thatcountry for him of Antony, for that he was ready to transfer hisfriendship to her; and this he did, not because he was betterpleased to be under Cleopatra's government, but because hethought that, upon the diminution of Herod's power, it wouldnot be difficult for him to obtain himself the entire government