OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ported by any principle of loyalty; and treason, against such aprince, might easily be considered as patriotism to the state. Yet ifwe examine with candour the conduct of these usurpers, it will ap­pear, that they were much oftener driven into rebellion by theirfears, than urged to it by their ambition. They dreaded the cruelsuspicions of Gallienus; they equally dreaded the capricious violenceof their troops. If the dangerous favour of the army had impru­dently declared them deserving of the purple, they were markedfor sure destruction; and even prudence would counsel them, tosecure a short enjoyment of empire, and rather to try the fortune ofwar, than to expect the hand of an executioner. "When theclamour of the soldiers invested the reluctant victims with the en­signs of sovereign authority, they sometimes mourned in secrettheir approaching fate. "You have lost," said Saturninus, onthe day of his elevation, " you have lost a useful commander, and"you have made a very wretched emperor ,6'." The apprehensions of Saturninus were justified by the repeatedexperience of revolutions. Of the nineteen tyrants who started upunder the reign of Gallienus, there was not one who enjoyed a lifeof peace, or a natural death. As soon as they were invested withthe bloody purple, they inspired their adherents with the fame fearsand ambition which had occasioned their own revolt. Encompassedwith domestic conspiracy, military sedition, and civil war, theytrembled on the edge of precipices, in which after a longer orshorter term of anxiety, they were inevitably lost. These precariousmonarchs received, however, such honours, as the flattery of theirrespective armies and provinces could bestow; but their claimfounded on rebellion, could never obtain the sanction of law orhistory. Italy, Rome, and the senate, constantly adhered to thecause of Gallienus, and he alone was considered as the sovereign ofthe empire. That prince condescended indeed to acknowledge thevictorious arms of Odenathus, who deserved the honourable distinc- Vol. I. O o tion,