OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 357 other places became Sullan colonies; to repeople Samniutnwas, as we have said, no part of the regent's design. A greatpart of these assignations took place after the Gracchanmode, so that the settlers were attached to an already exist­ing town-community. The comprehensiveness of this settle­ment is shown by the number of allotments distributed,which is stated at 120,000. Nevertheless isolated portionsof land were otherwise applied, as in the case of the landsbestowed on the temple of Diana at Mount Tifata; others,such as the Volaterran domain and part of the Arretine, re­mained undistributed; others in fine, according to the oldabuse legally forbidden (P. 134) but now reviving, weretaken possession of on the part of Sulla's favourites by theright of occupation. The objects, which Sulla aimed at in thiscolonization, were of a varied kind. In the first place, hethereby redeemed the pledge given to his soldiers. Secondly,he in so doing adopted the idea, in which the reform-partyand the moderate conservatives concurred, and in accord­ance with which he had himself as early as 666 arranged 88.the establishment of a number of colonies — the idea,namely, of augmenting the number of the small agriculturalproprietors in Italy by a breaking up of the larger posses­sions on the part of the government; how seriously he hadthis at heart, is shown by the renewed prohibition of theannexation of allotments. Lastly and especially, he saw inthese settled soldiers as it were standing garrisons, whowould protect his new constitution along with their ownright of property. For this reason, where the whole territorywas not confiscated, as at Pompeii, the colonists were notamalgamated with the town-community, but the old burgessesand the colonists were constituted as two bodies of burgessesassociated within the same enclosing wall. In other respectsthese colonial foundations were made on the same legal basisand in the same military form as those of previous times;the circumstance that they were based not directly, like theolder ones, but only indirectly on a law, inasmuch as theregent constituted them by virtue of the clause of theValerian law to that effect, made no difference de jure. Todesignate them as military colonies in contrast with the olderones, is only justifiable in so far as the distinction betweenthe soldier and the burgess, which was in other instancesdone away by the very colonization of the soldiers, was in­tended to remain and did remain in force in the Sullan