OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 265 (ii. 346) hoped to find in Asia an easy war and endless booty,were furious; in a moment the two tribunes that had comefrom Rome were torn in pieces, and from all sides the cryarose that the general should lead them to Rome. Withoutdelay the consul started, and forming a junction with hislike-minded colleague by the way, he arrived by quickmarches—little troubling himself about the deputies whohastened from Bome to meet and attempted to detain him—beneath the walls of the capital. Suddenly the Romansbeheld columns of Sulla's army take their station at thebridge over the Tiber and at the Colline and Esquiline gates,and then two legions marching in battle array, with theirstandards at their head, crossed the sacred boundary withinwhich the law had forbidden war to enter. Many a worsequarrel, many an important feud had been brought to asettlement within those walls, without a Roman army ven­turing to break the sacred fence of the city; that step wasnow taken, primarily for the sake of the miserable questionwhether this or that officer was called to command in theEast. The entering legions advanced as far as the height Romeof the Esquiline; when the missiles and stones descending occupied.in showers from the roofs made the soldiers waver and theybegan to give way, Sulla brandished a blazing torch, andwith firebrands and threats of setting the houses on firethe legions cleared their way to the Esquiline Forum (notfar from S. Maria Maggiore). There the force hastily col­lected by Marius and Sulpicius awaited them, and by itsBuperior numbers repelled the first advancing columns. Butreinforcements came up from the gates; another division ofthe Sullans made preparations for turning the defenders bythe street of the Subura; the latter were obliged to retire.At the temple of Tellus, where the Esquiline begins to slopetowards the great Forum, Marius attempted once more tomake a stand ; he adjured the senate andequites and all thecitizens to throw themselves across the path of the legions;it was in vain. Even when the slaves were summoned to armunder the promise of freedom, not more than three of themappeared. Nothing remained for the leaders but to escapein all haste through the still unoccupied gates; after a fewhours Sulla was absolute master of Rome. That night thewatchfires of the legions blazed in the great market-place ofthe capital. The first military intervention in civil feuds had fully First Sullaa restoration.