OCR Output C.X.] VESPASIAN RELEASES JOSEPHUS. 149 Mucianus came also, who was the president of the province,and told him with what alacrity the people [received thenews of his advancement,] and how the people of every cityhad taken the oath of fidelity to him. 7. So Vespasian's good fortune succeeded to his wishesevery where, and the public affairs were, for the greatestpart, already in his hands; upon which he considered, thathe had not arrived at the government without divine Pro­vidence, but that a righteous kind of fate had brought theempire under his power; for as he called to mind the othersignals, which had been a great many every where, thatforetold he should obtain the government, so did he rememberwhat Josephus had said to him, when he ventured to foretellhis coming to the empire while Nero was alive; so he wasmuch concerned that this man was still in bonds with him.He then called for Mucianus, together with his other com­manders and friends, and, in the first place, he informedthem what a valiant man Josephus had been, and what greathardships he had made him undergo in the siege of Jotapata.After he had related those predictions' of his which he hadthen suspected as fictitions, suggested out of the fear he wasin, but which had by time been demonstrated to be divine." It is a shameful thing," said he, " that this man who hathforetold my coming to the empire beforehand, and been theminister of a divine message to me, should still be retainedin the condition of a captive or prisoner." So he called forJosephus, and commanded that he should be set at liberty; 1 As Daniel was preferred by Darius and Cyrus, on account of his havingforetold the destruction of the Babylonian monarchy by their means, andthe consequent exaltation of the Jledes and Persians, v. Ti., or rather, asJeremiah, when he was a prisonor, was set at liberty, and honorably treatedby Nebuzaradan, at the command of Nebuchadnezzar, on account of hishaving foretold the destruction of Jerusalem by tho Babylonians, Jer. xl.1-0, so was our Josephus set at liberty, and honorably treated, on accountof his having foretold the advancement of Vespasian and Titus to theRoman empire. All theso are most eminent instances of the interpositionof divine providence, and of the certainty of divine predictions in tho greatrevolutions of the four monarchies. Several such like examples there areboth in the sacred and other histories; as is the case of Joseph in Egypt,and of Juddua tho high-priest, in the days of Alexander the Great, &o. 13*