OCR Output 318 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA. Landingof Marius, of the refugees and enlisted Numidian horsemen; but, aaGains Marius had in the previous year been willing to fra足ternize with the rabble of the capital, so he now orderedthe ergastula in which the landholders of this region shut uptheir field-labourers during the night to be broken open,and the arms which he offered to these for the purpose ofachieving their freedom were not despised. Reinforced bythese men and the contingents of the new burgesses, as wellas by the exiles who flocked to him with their partisansfrom all sides, he soon numbered 6000 men under his eaglesand was able to man forty ships, which took their stationbefore the mouths of the Tiber and gave chase to the corn-ships sailing towards Rome. With these he placed himselfat the disposal of the "consul" Cinna. The leaders of theCampanian army hesitated; the more sagacious, Sertoriusin particular, seriously pointed out the danger of too closelyconnecting themselves with a man whose name would neces足sarily place him at the head of the movement, and who yetwas notoriously incapable of any statesmanlike action andhaunted by an insane thirst for revenge; but Cinna disre足garded these scruples, and confirmed Marius in the supremecommand in Etruria and at sea with proconsular powers. Thus the storm gathered around the capital, and thegovernment could no longer delay bringing forward then-troops to protect it.* But the forces of Metellus weredetained by the Italians in Samnium and before Nola;Strabo alone was in a position to hasten to the help of thecapital. He appeared and pitched his camp at the Collinegate: with his numerous and experienced army he mightprobably have rapidly and totally annihilated the still weakband of insurgents; but this seemed to be no part of hisdesign. On the contrary he allowed Rome to be actuallynans around invested by the insurgents. Cinna with his corps and thatof Carbo took post on the right bank of the Tiber opposite tothe Janiculum, Sertorius on the left bank confronting Pom-peius over against the Servian wall. Marius with his bandwhich had gradually increased to three legions and in pos足session of a number of war-vessels, occupied one place onthe coast after another till at length even Ostia fell into his * The whole of the statement that follows is based in substance on therecently discovered account of Licinianus, which communicates a number offacts previously unknown, and in particular enables us to perceive the sequenceand connection of these events more clearly than was possible before. Dubiousattitude ofStrabo. The Cin-