OCR Output 4++ TITUS LIVIUS' Book V. to Apollo. The long galiey, in which these deputiesembarked, was intercepted by some pirates from the isleiil' Liparre, not fa# from the streights ot' Messina, and bythem carried into Liparae It was their custom to divideall their captures among the citizens. Their principal magistrate this year was one Timasi-theus, a man, who resembled the Romans more in hismanners, than he did his countrymen. This magistrate,full of veneration for the god, and the present sent him,and out of respect to the character of the ambassadors,and the embassy on which they were sent, inspired themultitude, who generally follow the sentiments of theirleaders, with the same regard tor justice and religion.And having not only entertained them with great hos足pitality, but in person, with a squadron of ships, con足voyed them to Delphi, and from thence safe back toRome, the right of hospitality was conferred on him bya decree of the senate, and great presents were madehim at the public expence. Throughout this year, the war with the i^qui tooksuch various turns, that it remained a question both atRome and in the camp, which side had the better. Thegenerals in the war, were C. iEmilius, and Sp. Posthu-mius. At first they acted in conjunction, and when theyhad defeated the enemy in a pitched battle, iEmwiusthought proper to go to garrison Vetrugo, and Posthu-mius to lay waste the enemy's borders. The lattermarching with his troops with too little precaution, afterbis late success, was surprised and driven to the adja足cent hills in great consternation by the JEqui. Theirfright commumcated itself to the other garrison at Ver-rugo. Posthumius having rallied his men,' and got them intoa place of safety, reproached them severely with theirpanic and flight, telling them that they had sufferedthemselves to be beat by a most cowardly enemy, whoalways shewed their backs. The whole army acknow足ledged that there was too much truth in what they hadheard, and confessed the frfult of which they had beenguilty, bqt promised that they woultl make amends, andgive the enemy but short time to rejoice over them.They begged with earnestness to be instantly led to theattack of the enemy's camp, which Vas within sight, in