OCR Output CHAP.XtlV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. custom of antiquity, he bought his bride of her parents,;and she fulfilled the coemption, by purchasing, with threepieces of copper, a just introduction to his house andhousehold deities. A sacrifice of fruits was offered bythe pontiffs in the presence of ten witnesses; the con­tracting parties were seated on the same sheepskin ; theytasted a salt cake offar or rice 5 and this confarreation?which denoted the ancient food of Italy, served as anemblem of their mystic union of mind and body. Butthis union on the side of the woman was rigorous andunequal; and she renounced the name and worship ofher father's house, to embrace a new servitude decoratedonly by the title of adoption. A fiction of the law, nei-.ther rational nor elegant, bestowed on the mother of afamilyb (her proper appellation) the strange characters ofsister to her own children, and of daughter to her hus­band or master, who was invested with the plenitude ofpaternal power. By his judgment or caprice her beha­viour was approved, or censured, or chastised; he exer-reised the jurisdiction of life and death; and it was ahlowed, that in cases of adultery or drunkenness," thesentence might be properly inflicted. She acquired andinherited for the sole profit of her lord; and so clearlywas woman defined, not as a person, but as a thing, thatif the original title were deficient, she might be claimed^like Other moveables, by the use and possession of an em-tire year. The inclination of the Roman husband dis*charged or withheld the conjugal debt, so scrupulouslyexacted by the Athenian and Jewish laws ;d but as poly* a Among the winter frumenta, the triticum, or bearded wheat; the siligo, or theunbearded ; the far, adorea, oryza, whose description perfectly tallies with the riceOf Spain and Italy. I adopt this identity on the credit of M. Pancton in his nsefnlfcnd faborionS Metrologie, (p. 517—529.) *> Aulas Gellius (Nootes Atticae, 18. 6.) gives a ridicalons definition of /Elins Me-lissirs, Matrona, quae semel, materfamilias quae saepius peperit, as porcetra andscro-pha in the now kind. He then adds the genuine meaning, quae in matrimonium vclin manam convenerat.. 1 c It Was enough to have tasted wine, or to have stolen the key of the cellar. (Plin.Hist. Nat. 14. 14.) ■ 11 Solon requires three payments per month. By the Misna, a daily debt was im-posed'on an idle, vigorous young hushand; twice a week on n citizen; once on apeasant; once in thirty days on a camel-driver; once in six months on a seaman.