OCR Output CtfAP. XXXIX,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.? head of six thousand volunteers, he secretly left thecamp in quest of adventures, descended the Danube asfar as Singidunum or Belgrade, and soon returned to hisfather with the spoils of a Sarmatian king whom he hadvanquished and slain. Such triumphs, however, wereproductive only of fame, and the invincible Ostrogothswere reduced to extreme distress by the want of clothingand food. They unanimously resolved to desert theirPannonian encampments, and boldly to advance into thewarm and wealthy neighbourhood of the Byzantinecourt, which already maintained in pride and luxury somany bands of confederate Goths. After proving bysome acts of hostility that they could be dangerous, or atleast troublesome, enemies-, the Ostrogoths sold at a highprice their reconciliation and fidelity, accepted a dona­tive of lands and money, and wfcere intrusted with thedefence of the Lower Danube, under the command ofTheodoric, who succeeded after his father's death to thehereditary throne of the Amali." A hero, descended from a race of kings, must have The reigndespised the base Isaurin who was invested with the Ro- a. d. 474man purple, without any endowments, of mind or body, APt99.FeI>'without any advantages of royal birth, or superior quali­fications. After the failure of the Theodosian line, thechoice of Pulcheria and of the senate might be justifiedin some measure by the characters of Martian and Leo,but the latter of these princes confirmed and dishonouredhis reign by the perfidious murder of Aspar and his sons,,who too rigorously exacted the debt of gratitude and obe­dience. The inheritance of Leo and of the east waspeaceably devolved on his infant grandson, the son ofhis daughter Ariadne; and her Isaurian husband, thefortunate Trascalisseus, exchanged that barbarous soundfor the Grecian appellation of Zeno. After the deceaseof the elder Leo, he approached with unnatural respect e The state of the Ostrogoths, and the first years of Theodoric, are found in Jor-nandes (c. 52—56. p. 689—696.) and Malchus (Excerpt. Legat. p. 78—80.) who.erroneonsly styles him the son of Walamir,