OCR Output CHAP. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 329. in the senate : and when after a mighty bustle, he pre­vailed so far as to get the opinion of the fathers, whetherthe comitia should be held for electing consuls or mili­tary tribunes; consuls were ordered to be elected. Histhreats, that he would obstruct the levies, were matter ofridicule, for, when there was neither war, nor prepara­tion for it, what occasion was there for levies? This stat'e of tranquillity was followed by a year che­quered with a combmation of calamities, occasioned byfamine and sedition, during the consulship of ProculuaGeganius Macerinus, and L. Menenius Lanatns, whenthe people, by means of bribery, had almost been sad­dled with regal power. Had one foreign war been .thrown into the scale, the state must have inevitably sunkto perdition. The first of these calamities was a famine,either owing to a bad season, or the neglect of agricul­ture, for dancing attendance to assemblies, and the plea­sures of the city. For both these reasons are given.The senators reproached the people with idleness, andthe tribunes blamed the consu'-, sometimes for want ofhonesty, and sometimes for inattention. At last, with the senate's concurrence; the peoplemade choice of L. Minucius as prefect, or snpeiinten-dant of provisions, who was more happy, while in office,in securing the liberty of the state, than in the executionof his office; although at last, he had justly the honourof lowering the price of provisions, and the thanks efhis country on that account: For, having dispersedagents, by sea and land, to no purpose, through theneighbouring states, excepting a stnall matter from Etru-ria, when no corn could be got, he turned hrs attentionto a frugal management of what little-was to be foundnt home, by obliging every one to produce h'rs corn, tosell above one month's provision, by reducing the dailyaljnwance to slaves, and by accusing the corn merchants,and exposing them to the resentment of the people, sothat by the strictness of his scrutiny, he rather exposedtheir penury, than relieved it; in consequence of which,many of the people, in a fit of despair, chose rather tothrow themselves blindfolded into the Tiber, than suffer •any longer the miseries of so cruel a famine.