OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 451 having been forbidden so to do by one of their laws: and acapital punishment had been decreed to such as introduced astrange god; it being manifest that they who make use ofsuch a law do not believe those of other nations to be reallygods, otherwise they had not envied themselves the advantageof more gods than they already had. And this was the happyadministration of the affairs of the Athenians! Now, as tothe Scythians, they take a pleasure in killing men, and differlittle from brute beasts; yet do they think it reasonable tohave their institutions observed. They also slew Anacharsis,a person greatly admired for his wisdom among the Greeks,when he returned to them, because he appeared to comefraught with Grecian customs : one may also find many tohave been punished among the Persians on the very sameaccount. And to be sure Apollonius was greatly pleased withthe laws of the Persians, and was an admirer of them, becausethe Greeks enjoyed the advantage of their courage, and hadthe very same opinion about the gods which they had ! Thislast was exemplified in the temples which they burnt, andtheir courage in coming and almost entirely enslaving theGrecians. However, Apollonius has imitated all the Persianinstitutions, and that by his offering violence to other men'swives, and castrating his own sons. Now with us it is a capitalcrime if any one does thus abuse even a brute beast: and asfor us, neither hath the fear of our governors, nor a desireof following what other nations have in so great esteem, beenable to withdraw us from our own laws; nor have wc exertedour courage in raising up wars to increase our wealth, butonly for the observation of our laws: and when we with pa足tience bear other losses, yet when any persons would compelus to break our laws, then it is that we choose to go to war,though it be beyond our ability to pursue it, and bear thegreatest calamities to the last with much fortitude. And, in足deed, what reason can there by why we should desire to imi足tate the laws of other nations, while we see they are notobserved by their own legislators ? And why do not the La足cedemonians think of abolishing that form of their governmentwhich suffers them not to associate with any others, as well as