OCR Output 284 [book Vllf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. vessels that were for ministration to the sa­crifices of God,* and removed them to thetemple. The king himself, and all the peo­ple, and the Levites, went before, renderingthe ground moist with sacrifices,! and drink-offerings, and the blood of a great number ofoblations, and burning an immens? quantityof incense; and this till the circumambientair was so full of these odours, that it met, ina most agreeable manner, persons at a greatdistance; and was an indication of God's pre­sence, and of his habitation with them in thisnewly built and consecrated place. For theydid not grow weary either of singing hymns,or of dancing, until they came to the temple.And in this manner did they carry the ark.But when they should transfer it into themost sacred place, the rest of the multitudewent away; and only those priests that car­ried it set it between the two cherubims;which embracing it with their wings, (for sowere they framed by the artificer,) coveredit as under a tent, or a cupola. Now the arkcontained nothing but those two tables ofstone that preserved the ten commandments, which God delivered to Moses in MountSinai; and which were engraven upon them.But they set the candlestick, and the table,and the golden altar in the temple, before themost secret place, in the very same placeswherein they stood till that time in the taber­nacle. So they offered up the daily sacrifices.But for the brazen altar, Solomon set it be­fore the temple, over against the door: thatwhen the door was opened, it might be ex­posed to sight, and the sacred solemnities,and the richness of the sacrifices might bethence seen. And all the rest of the vesselsthey gathered together, and put them withinthe temple. Now as soon as the priests had put allthings in order about the ark, and were goneout, a thick cloud came down and spread it­self, after a gentle manner, into the Jtemple:such a cloud it was, as was diffused and tem­perate; not such a rough one as we see fullof rain in the winter season.|| This cloudso darkened the place, that one priest couldnot discern another: but it afforded to theminds of all a visible image, and glorious secret place, (from whence, it is doubted, whether theyhave ever yet been removed,) for fear of profanation.Patrick's and Calmet's Commentaries. B. * This solemn removal of the ark from Mount Sion toMount Moriah, at the distance of almost three quarters ofa mile, confutes that notion of the modern Jews, and ofmany Christians also, as if those two were one and thesame mountain; for which there is, I think, very littlefoundation. t The number of sacrifices which upon this occasionare said to be offered, was two and twenty thousand oxen,and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep, 1 Kings viii.63. but we must not suppose, that these were offered allon one day, much less on one altar. The continuance ofthis meeting was for fourteen days, seven in the feast oftabernacles, and seven in that of the dedication; and be­cause the brazen altar, before the door of the temple,was not sufficient to receive all these sacrifices, Solomon,by a special license from God, ordered other altars to beerected in the court of the priests, and perhaps in otherplaces which were to serve only during this present so­lemnity, when such a vast number of sacrifices were to beoffered: for at other times, no other altar was allowed butthis brazen one, which Moses had made. It is no bad ob­servation however of Josephus, (lib. viii. c. 2.) that duringthe oblation of so many sacrifices, the Levites took care toperfume the air with the fragrancy of incense, and sweetodours, to such a degree, that the people were sensible ofit at a distance; otherwise the burning of so many beastsat one time must have occasioned an offensive smell.Patrick's Commentary. B. J 1 Kings viii. 10. II When Moses had finished the tabernacle, accordingto the pattern which God had shewed him, and set it all up, it is said, that a cloud covered the tent of the congre­gation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, sothat Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the con­gregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the gloryof the Lord filled the tabernacle, Exod. xl. 34, 35. Andtherefore, when the temple was finished, and the arkbrought into the sanctuary, God gave the like indicationof his presence, and residence there. Hereby he testifiedhis acceptance of the building, and furnishing of the tem­ple, as a service done to his name; and hereby he de­clared, that as the glory of the ark (that sacred symbolof his presence) had been long eclipsed by its frequentremoves, and mean habitations; so now his pleasure wasthat it should be looked upon with the same esteem andveneration as when Moses conducted it into the taber­nacle. For this cloud, we must know, was not a heavy,thick, opaque body, such as is engendered in the air,and arises from vapours and exhalations, but a cloud thatwas dark and luminous at the same time, whose darknesswas awful and majestic, and whose internal part wasbright and refulgent, darting its rays upon occasion, andexhibiting its light through its obscurity: so that, ac­cording to its different phasis, or position, it became tothe Israelites a pillar of a cloud by day, to screen themfrom the heat, and at night a pillar of fire, to give themlight, Exod. xiii. 21. Whatever it was that constitutedthis strange appearance, it is certain this mixture of lightand darkness was looked upon as a symbol of the divinepresence; for so the Scripture has informed us, that Hewho dwelleth in light that is inaccessible, made darknesshis secret place, his pavilion round about him, with darkwater, and thick clouds to cover him, Psal. xviii. 11Calmefs Commentary. B.