OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 261 venth day, this bank could never have been perfected, by rea­son of the opposition the Jews would have made; for thoughour laws give us leave then to defend ourselves against thosethat began to fight with us, and assault us, yet it does notpermit us to meddle with our enemies while they do any thing -else. 3. Which thing when the Romans understood, on those dayswhich we call Sabbaths, they threw nothing at the Jews, norcame to any pitched battle with them, but raised up theirearthen banks, and brought their engines into such forwardnessthat they might do execution the following days. And any onemay hence learn how very great piety we exercise towards God,and the observance of his laws, since the priests were not at allhindered from their sacred ministrations, by their fear during thissiege, but did still twice a-day, in the morning, and about theninth hour, offer their sacrifices, on the altar; nor did theyomit those sacrifices, if any melancholy accident happened, bythe stones that were thrown among them; for although the citywas taken on * the third month, on the day of the fast, uponthe hundred seventy-ninth olympiad, when Caius Antonius andMarcus Tullius Cicero, were consuls, and the enemy then fellupon them, and cut the throats of those that were in the tem­ple, yet could not those that offered the sacrifice be compelledto run away, neither by the fear they were in of their own lives,nor by the number that were already slain, as thinking it bet­ter to suffer whatever came upon them, at their very altars,than to omit any thing that their laws required of them. Andthat this is not a mere brag, or an encomium to manifest a de­gree of our piety that was false, but is the real truth; I appealto those that have written of the acts of Pompey: and amongthem, to Strabo and Nicolaus [of Damascus ;3 and besides thesetwo, Titus Livius, the writer of the Roman history, who willbear witness to this thing.f 4. But when the battering engine was brought near, the great- * That is on the 23d of Sivan, the annual fast for the defection and idolatry ofJeroboam, who made Israel to sin; or possibly some other fast might fall into thatmonth, before and in the days of Josephus. ')- It deserves htre to be noted, that this Pharisaical superstitious notion, that of­fensive Bghting was unlawful to Jews, even under the utmost necessity, on the Sab-batl) day; of which we hear nothing before the times of the Maccabees, was thdproper occasion of Jerusalem's being taken by Pompey, Sosius, and by Titus, asappears from the places already quoted in the note on Antiq. B. XIII. ch. viii sect . 1.winch scrupulous superstition, as to the observation of such a rigorous rest upon theSabbatr* day, our Saviour always opposed, when the Pharisaical Jews insisted on it,as is evident in many places of the New Testament, though he still intimated howpernicious that superstition might prove to them in their flight from the Romans,Alatt. xxv. 20.