OCR Output CHAP. 25. ROMAN HISTORY. 51 1 CHAP. XXV. The combat of the Horatii and Curiatii- J. HE treaty being thus concluded, the three brotherson each side take arms, according to agreement. Whilsteach party are animating their respective champions, byrepresenting that their gods, their country, their fathersand mothers, the whole city and army had their eyesfixed on their swords and actions; the combatants, braveof themselves, and still more invigorated by such press­ing exhortations advance to the centre between the twoarmies. The two armies were ranged on both sidesround the field of battle, safe from danger for the present,but anxious for the future, because empire was at stake,depending on the exertions and fortune of so few. Where­fore, agitated with these reflections, and solicitous aboutthe event, they turn their whole attention to a sight,which could not be very agreeable. The signal is given, and the champions march boldlythree and three against each other, themselves alone in­spired with the courage of great armies. Both insensi­ble of their own danger, having nothing before theireyes but the slavery or liberty of their country; thefuture destiny of which, must entirely depend upon theirpresent exertions. The moment thes clashing of theirweapons is heard, and the glitter of their swords seen,the spectators seized with fear and alarm, whilst hopesof success inclined to neither side, continued motionless,and seemed to have lost the power of speech, and evenof breathing. When they were thus fairly engaged, notonly the motion of their bodies, and the brandishing oftheir weapons attracted the eyes of the spectators, butthe wounds and blood running from them. Two Ro­mans dropped dead at the feet of the Atbans, who werewounded all three. Thejpfall was instantly announcedby the loud and joyful shouts of the Alban army, whilstthe Roman legions remained without hope, but not with­out anxiety, trembling for the single Roman, who nowstood surrounded by the three Albans. Happily he wasnot wounded. V