OCR Output INDIA. 47 rNDIA. on the E. coast rf the Golden Chersonestu. (in theoeisrhl>oarhood of Malacca); Taenia (perliaps Taxaior Tatoy); Triglyphon, in the district of the Cyrrha-diae, »t the month of the Brahmaputra (now Tiperahor Tripura); and Cattipara, the exact position ofwhich has been much disputed among geographers,but which Lassen has placed conjectural])- in Borneo*Northward of Triglyphon are a number of small dis­tricts, shoot which nothing certain is known, asChalcitis, Basanarae, Cacobte, and Aminacbae, theladraprathae, and Iberiogae; and to the W., alongthe swamp-land at the foot of the Himdlaya chain,are the Tiladae, Passalae,Corancali,nnd the Tacaraei.All the abore may be considered as belonging toIndia extra Gangem. Again, from the line of coast from E. to W., thefirst people along the western months of the Gangesare called the Gangaridae, with their chief townGange (in the neighbourhood of the modern Cal­cutta); the Calingae, with their chief towns Par­tialis and Dandagula (the latter probably Calina-paltana, about halfway between Mahunadi andGoddvan); the Maesoli and Maesolia, occupyingnearly the same range of coast as that now calledtie Ctrcart, with the capital Pitynda, and Conta-csssyla (MatuUpattana t) and Alosygna on the sea-eosst; W. of the Maesolns (Goddvari), the Arrarni,with the chief town Malanga (probably Manda-riaja, the present Madraiy Then follow the So-ringi and Bati, till we come to the land of Pandion(IliuoWor x»pa), which extends to the southernextremity of the peninsula of Jlindustdn, and was adistrict of great wealth and importance at the timeof the Periplus. (PeripL pp. 31, 33.) There canbe no doubt that the land of Pandion is the same asthe Indian Pdndja, and its capital Modura thepraent Mathura. Within the same district wereArgara (whence the S. Argaricus derives its name),the Carci, and the Colchi. At the SW. end of thepeninsula were Cot tiara (Cochin), and Comaria,whence the promontory Comoria derives its name.Following the western coast, we arrive at Limyrica(PeripL pp. 30, 36), undoubtedly in the neighbour­hood of Manoalore, with its chief towns Carura(most likely Coimbatort, where a great quantity ofRoman coin* have been dug up during the last fifteenyean) and Tyndia (in the neighbourhood of Goa);aod then Mosopale, Nitrae, and Mandagara; all placeson the sea-coast, or at no great distance from it.Somewhat further inland, within the district knowngenetically at the time of the Periplus by the nameof Dachinahades (Dakhmabhada, or Deccan), wasthe district of Ariaca ('Af iaxa 2a5araw, Ptol. vii.1. §§ 6, 82: cf. PeripL p. 30), with its chief townUiuDacara(A*ai«oVra or Hydrabad,\( not,asRitter hasimagined,the sea-port Mangalore); Baetana, Simylla(on the coast near Boutin), Omenagara (undoubtedlythe celebrated fortress Akmed-nagar), and Tagara(PeripL p. 19), the present Dtoghir. Further N.,tie rich commercial state of Larice appears to have•xlended from the Namadus (Narmadd or Ner-hidaVi) to Barygaxa (Beroach) and the Gulf ofCamtom. Its chief town was, in Ptolemy's time,Ozene (Ovjein or Ujjayini), a place well known tothe antiquaries of India for the vast numbers of theearliest Indian coinage constantly found among itsrains; Muinagara, the position of which is doubtful,•ad Barygaza, the chief emporium of the commerceof Western India, North of Larice was Syrastrene(oWuttatm), to the west of the Gulf of Cambay;ud still farther to the westward, at the mouths of the Indus, Pattalene (Lower Scinde, and the neigh­bourhood of Karachi), with its capital Pattala(Potala.) It is much more difficult to determine the exactsite of the various tribes and nations mentioned inancient authors as existing in the interior of thecountry, than it is to ascertain the correspondingmodern localities of those which occupied the sea-coast. Some, however, of them can be made outwith sufficient certainty, by comparison of theirclassical names with the Sanscrit records, and insome instances with the modern native appellations.Following, then, the course of the Indus northwards,we find, at least in the times of Ptolemy and of thePeriplus, a wide-spread race of Scythian origin, occu­pying both banks of the river, in a district called,from them, Imdo-Scythia. The exact limits oftheir country cannot now he traced; but it is pro­bable that they extended from Pattalene on the S.as far as the lower ranges of the Hindu-Kuah, — infact, that their empire swayed over the whole ofmodern Scinde and the Punjab; a view which isborne out by the extensive remains of their Topesand coinage, which are found throughout these dis­tricts, and especially to the northward, near the headwaters of the three western of the Five Rivers. Agreat change had no doubt taken place by the suc­cessful invasion of a great horde of Scythians to­wards the close of the second century B. c, as tbeyare known to havo overthrown the Greek kingdom ofBactriana, at the same time effacing many of thenames of the tribes whom Alexander had met withtwo centuries before, such as the Aspasii, Assa-ceni, Massiani, Hipposii; with the towns of Aca-dera, Daedala, Massaga, and Embolinia, which arepreserved in Arrian, and others of Alexander's his­torians. Further N., along the bases of the Paropamisus,Imaus, and Emodus, in the direction from W. toE., we find mention of the Sampatae, the districtSuastene (now Sewad), and Goryaea, with thetowns Gorya and Dionysopolis, or Nagara (nowNagar); and further E., between the Suastus andthe Indus, the Gandarae (one, doubtless, of the ori­ginal seats of the Gandhdrat). Following themountain range to the E., we come to Caspiria (nowCashmir, in earlier times known, as we have seen,to Herodotus, under the name of Caspatyrns). South­ward of Cathmir was the territory of Yarsa, with itscapital Taxila, a place of importance so early as thetime of Alexander (Arrian, v. 8), and probably indi­cated now by the extensive remains of Manikydlu(Burucs, Travels, vol. i. p. 65), if, indeed, these arenot too much to the eastward. A little further S.was the land of Pandous (Tlavouou x^po, doubtlessthe representative of one of the Pandava dynasties ofearly Hindu history), during the time of Alexanderthe territory of the king Porus. Further eastwardwere the state Cylindrine, with the sources of theSutledge, Jumna, and Ganges; and the Gangani,whose territory extended into the highest range ofthe Himalaya. Many small states and towns are mentioned in thehistorians of Alexander's campaigns along the upperPanjub, which we cannot here do more than glance at,as i\'Uce\nolia(Puslckaldvati), Nicaea,Buccphala, theGlaucanitae, and the Sibae or Sibi. Following next thecourse of the Ganges, we meet with the Daetichae, theNanichae, Pratdaca; and the Mandalac, with its cele­brated capital Pa!ibothra(beyond nil doubt the presentPdtaliputra. or Patna), situated at the junction of