OCR Output C. VI.] LUCILIUS BASSUS. 321 he began to think of using a stratagem against the enemy,and was desirous to aggravate their grief, in order to prevailwith them to surrender the city for the preservation of thatman. Nor did he fail of his hope; for he commanded themto set up a cross, as if he were just going to hang Eleazarupon it immediately : the sight of this occasioned a sore griefamong those that were in the citadel, and they groaned vehe­mently, and cried out, that they could not bear to see himthus destroyed. Whereupon Eleazar besought them not todisregard him, now he was going to suffer a most miserabledeath, and exhorted them to save themselves, by yielding tothe Roman power and good fortune, since all other peoplewere now conquered by them. These men were greatlymoved with what he said, there being also many within thecity that interceded for him, because he was of an eminentand very numerous family; so they now yielded to theirpassion of commiseration, contrary to their usual custom.Accordingly, they sent out immediately certain messengers,and treated with the Romans, in order to a surrender of thecitadel to them, and desired that they might be permitted togo away, and take Eleazar along with them. Then did theRomans and their general accept of these terms ; while thatmultitude of strangers that were in the lower part of the city,hearing of the agreement that was made by the Jews forthemselves alone, was resolved to fly away privately in thenight-time; but as soon as they had opened their gates, thosethat had come to terms with Bassus told him of it; whetherit were that they envied the others' deliverance, or whetherit were done out of fear lest an occasion should be takenagainst them upon their escape, is uncertain. The mostcourageous, therefore, of those men that went out preventedthe enemy, and got away, and fled for it; but for those menthat were caught within, they were slain, to the number ofone thousand seven hundred, as were the women and thechildren made slaves. But as Bassus thought he must per­form the covenant he had made with those that had surren­dered the citadel, he let them go, and restored Eleazar tothem.