OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 193 him, and besides took his Jewish auxiliaries, and came againstJonathan, and made an assault upon his fortifications, and be­sieged him many days; but Jonathan did not abate of his cour­age at the zeal Bacchides used in the siege, but courageouslyopposed him: And while he left his brother Simon in the city,to fight with Bacchides, he went privately out himself into thecountry, and got a great body of men together of his own party,and fell upon Bacchides' camp in the night time, and destroyeda great many of them. His brother Simon knew also of thishis falling upon them, because he perceived that the enemieswere slain by him, so he sallied out upon them, and burnt theengines which the Macedonians used, and made a great slaugh­ter of them. And when Bacchides saw himself encompassedwith enemies, and some of them before, and some behind him,he fell into despair and trouble of mind, as confounded at theunexpected ill success of this siege. However, he vented hisdispleasure at these misfortunes upon those deserters who sentfor him from the king, as having deluded him. So he had amind to finish this siege after a decent manner, if it were possi­ble for him so to do, and then to return home. 6. When Jonathan understood these his intentions, he sent am­bassadors to him, about a league of friendship and mutual assist­ance, and that they might restore those they had taken captiveon both sides. So Bacchides thought this a pretty decent wayof retiring home, and made a league of friendship with Jona­than, when they sware that they would not any more make warone against another. Accordingly, he restored the captives, andtook his own men with him, and returned to the king of An-tioch: and after this his departure, he never came into Judeaagain. Then did Jonathan take the opportunity of this quietstate of things, and went and lived in the city Michmash; andthere governed the multitude, and punished the wicked andungodly, and by that means pu rged the nation of them. CHAP. II. How Alexander [Bala] in his war 'with Demetrius, granted Jo­nathan many advantages, and appointed him to be high priest,and persuaded him to assist him, although Demetrius promisedhim greater advantages on the other side. Concerning thedeath of Demetrius. § 1. Now in the hundred and sixtieth year, it fell out thatAlexander, the * son of Antiochus Epiphanes, came up into * This Alexander Bala. who certainly pretended to be the son of AntiochusEpiphanes, and was owned for such by the Jews and Romans, and many others*