OCR Output 358 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. cause he contrived that it might at once be for his own secu­rity, and a monument of his magnificence. He also changed itsname, and called it Sebaste. Moreover, he parted the adjoin­ing country, which was excellent in its kind, among the inhabi­tants of Samaria, that they might be in a happy condition, upontheir first coming to inhabit it. Besides all which, he encompas­sed the city with a wall of great strength, and made use of theacclivity of the place for making its fortifications stronger; norwas the compass of the place made now so small as it had beenbefore, but was such as rendered it not inferior to the most fa­mous cities; for it was twenty furlongs in circumference. Now,within and about the .niddle of it, he built a sacred place, of afurlong and a half [in circuit,] and adorned it with all sortsof decorations, and therein erected a temple, which was il­lustrious on account of both its largeness and beauty. And asto the several parts of the city, he adorned them with decora­tions of all sorts also: and as to what was necessary to providefor his own security, he made the walls very strong for thatpurpose, and made it for the greatest part a citadel; and as tothe elegance of the building, it was taken care of also, that hemight leave monuments of the fineness of his taste, and of hisbeneficence, to future ages. CHAP. IX. Concerning the famine that happened in Judea and Syria , - andhow Herod, after he had married another wife, rebuilt Cesa-rea, and other Grecian cities. § 1. JN ow on this very year, which was the thirteenth yearof the reign of Herod, very great calamities came upon thecountry; whether they were derived from the anger of God, or* whether this misery returns again naturally in certain periodsof time; for in the first place there were perpetual droughts,and for that reason the ground was barren, and did not bringforth the same quantity of fruits that it used to produce; andafter this barrenness of the soil, that change of food which thewant of corn occasioned, produced distempers in the bodies ofmen, and a pestilential disease prevailed, one misery followingupon the back of another: and the circumstances, that they * Here we have an eminent example of the language of Josephus in his writingto Gentiles, different from that when he wrote to Jews; in his writing to whom he•till derives all such judgments from the anger of God; but because he knew manyof the Gentiles thought they might naturally come in certain periods, he complieswith them in the following sentence. See the note on the War, B. I. ch. xxxiii. sect.2. Vol. III.