OCR Output 434 FLAVIUB JOSEPHUS [B. II. ascribing the authority and the power to God, and by per­suading all the people to have a regard to him as the authorof all the good things that were enjoyed either in commonby all mankind, or by each one in particular, and of all thatthey themselves obtained, by praying to him in their greatestdifficulties. He informed them, that it was impossible toescape God's observation, even in any of our outward actions,or in any of our inward thoughts. Moreover, he representedGodl as unbegotten and immutable, through all eternity,superior to all mortal conceptions in pulehritude; and thoughknown to us by his power, yet unknown to us as to hisessence. I do not now explain how these notions of God arethe sentiments of the wisest among the Grecians, and howthey were taught them upon the principles that he affordedthem. However, they testify, with great assurance, thatthese notions are just, and agreeable to the nature of God,and to his majesty: for Pythagoras, and Anaxagoras, andPlato, and the stoic philosophers that succeeded them, andalmost all the rest, are of the same sentiments, and had the it be Ycry obsorvnblo withal, that he never uses such expressions in hisbooks Of the War, written originally for the Jews beyond Euphrates, andin their language, in all these cases. However, Josephus directly supposesthe Jewish settlement under Moses to be a divine settlement, and, indeed,no other than a real Theocracy. 1 These excellent accounts of the divine attributes, and that God is not tobe at all known in his essence, as also some other clear expressions aboutthe resurrection of the dead, and the state of departed souls, &c, in thislate work of Josephus's, look more like the exalted notions of the Esscns,or, rather, Ebionite Christians, than of a more Jew or Pharisee. The fol­lowing largo accounts also of the laws of Moses seem to me to show a regardto the higher interpretations and improvements of Moses's laws, derivedfrom Jesus Christ, than to the bare letter of them in the Old Testament,whence alone Josephus took them when ho wrote his Antiquities: nor, as Ithink, can some of theso laws, though generally excellent in their kind, beproperly now found either in the copies of the Jewish Tentateuch, or inPhilo, or in Josephus himself, beforo he became a Nazarene or EbioniteChristian, nor even all of them among the laws of Catholic Christianitythemselves. I desire, therefore, the learned reader to consider, whethersome of these improvements or interpretations might not be peculiar to theEssens among the Jews, or, rather, to tho Nazarenes or Ebionites amongthe Christians; though we have, indeed, but imperfect accounts of thoseNazarene or Ebionite Christians transmitted down to us at this day.