OCR Output 384 livY. posted at all the gates, and that the sallies of the be­sieged could not easily be withstood, be came over tothe opinion of Attains. Thus baffled in their design,they dismissed the Acbaeans, and returned to theirships. Attalus steered to Piraeus, the Romans to Cor­ey ra. 24. While the naval forces were thus employed, theconsul, having encamped before Elatia, in Pbocis, firstendeavored, by conferring with the principal inhabi­tants, to bring them over, and by their means to effecthis purpose; but on their answering that they had no­thing in their power, because the king's troops weremore numerous and stronger than the townsmen, beassaulted the city on all sides at once with arms andengines. A battering-ram shattered a part of the wallthat reached from one tower to another, and this fall­ing with a prodigious noise and crash, left much of thetown exposed. On this a Roman cohort made an as­sault through the breach, while at the same time thetownsmen, quitting their several posts, ran togetherfrom all parts to the endangered place. Others of theRomans climbed over the ruins of the wall, and broughtup scaling-ladders to the parts that were standing. Asthe conflict attracted the eyes and attention of the enemyto one particular spot, the walls were scaled in severalplaces, by which means the soldiers easily entered thetown. The noise and tumult which ensued so terrifiedthe enemy, that quitting the place which they hadcrowded together to defend, they all fled in panic tothe citadel, accompanied by the unarmed multitude.The consul having thus become master of the town,gave it up to be plundered, and then sent a messengerinto the citadel, offering the king's troops their lives,on condition of their laying down their arms and de­parting. To the Elatians he offered their liberty;which terms being agreed to, in a few days after hegot possession of the citadel. 25. In consequence of Philocles, the king's general,coming into Achaia, not only Corinth was deliveredfrom the siege, but the city of Argos was betrayed into