OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL ture.(l) Twenty-two satraps, they styled themselves patriots, were tempted bythe wealth and honours of a new reign: to the soldiers, the heir of Chosroes pro­mised an increase of pay, to the Christians, the free exercise of their religion; tothe captives, liberty and rewards: and to the nation an instant peace and the re­duction of taxes. It was determined by the conspirators that Siroes, with the en­signs of royalty, should appear in the camp; and if the enterprise should fail, hisescape was contrived to the imperial court. But the new monarch was salutedwith unanimous acclamations; the flight of Chosroes (yet where could he havefled?) was rudely arrested, eighteen sons were massacred before his face, and hewas thrown into a dungeon where he expired on the fifth day. The Greeks andmodern Persians minutely describe how Chosroes was insulted, and famished, andtortured, by the command of an inhuman son, who so far surpassed the exampleof his father; but at the time of his death, what tongue would relate the story ofthe parricide? what eye could penetrate into the loiver of darkness? According tothe faith and mercy of his Christian enemies, he sunk without hope into a stilldeeper abyss;(2) and it will not be denied, that tyrants of every age and sect arethe best entitled to such infernal abodes. The glory of the house of Sassan ended•with the life of Chosroes; his unnatural son enjoyed only eight months the fruit ofhis crimes; and in the space of four years the regal title was assumed by nine can­didates, who disputed, with the sword or dagger, the fragments of an exhaustedmonarchy. Every province, and each city of Persia, was the scene of independ­ence, of discord, and of blood, and the state of anarchy prevailed about eightyears longer, till the factions were silenced and united under the common yoke ofthe Arabian caliphs. (3) * As soon as the mountains became passable, the emperor received the welcomenews of the success of the conspiracy, the death of Chosroes, and the elevation ofhis eldest son to the throne of Persia. The authors of the revolution, eager to dis- Elay their merits in the court or camp of Tauris, preceded the ambassadors ofiroes, who delivered the letters of their master to his brother the emperor of theRomans. (4) In the language of the usurpers of every age, he imputes his owncrimes to the Deity, and, without degrading his equal majesty, he offers to recon­cile the long discord of the two nations, by a treaty of peace and alliance more du­rable than brass or iron. The conditions of the treaty were easily defined andfaithfully executed. In the recovery of the standards and prisoners which hadfallen into the hands of the Persians, the emperor imitated the example of Augus­tus: their care of the national dignity was celebrated by the poets of the times, butthe decay of genius may be measured by the distance between Horace and Georgeof Pisidia; the subjects and brethren of Heraclius were redeemed from persecu­tion, slavery, and exile; but instead of the Roman eagles, the true wood of theholy cross was restored to the importunate demand of the successor of Constan-tine. The victor was not ambitious of enlarging the weakness of the empire; theson of Chosroes abandoned without regret the conquests of his father; the Per­sians who evacuated the cities of Syria and Egypt were honourably conducted tothe frontier, and a war which had wounded the vitals of the two monarchies, pro­duced no change in their external and relative situation. The return of Hera­clius from Tauris to Constantinople was a perpetual triumph; and after the ex­ploits of six glorious campaigns, he peaceably enjoyed the sabbath of his toils.After a long impatience, the senate, the clergy, and the people, went forth to meet"their hero, with tears and acclamations, with olive branches and innumerablelamps: he entered the capital in a chariot drawn by four elephants; and as soon asthe emperor could disengage himself from the tumult of public joy, he tastedmore genuine satisfaction in the embraces of his mother and his son. (5) (1) The authentic narrative of the fall of Choiroes is contained in the letters of Heraclius, (Chron. Paschal,p. 398.) and the history of Theophanes (p. 271.) (3) On the first rumour of the death of Chosroeu, an Heracliad in two cantos was instantly published at-Constantinople by George of Pisidia, p. 97—103.) A priest and a poet might very properly exult in the dam­nation of the public enemy: (eptit-uu iv T«pT«p*>, r. 50.) but such mean revenge is unworthy of a king and a conqueror; and I am sorry to find so much black superstition (&sop*x*j Xstmiu esrera x*i urruy** Turin *'s r»xMTM^dovia .... it; to Tup axsToto-Sto-Tov, Sec.) in the letter of Heraclius: he almost applauds the parricideof Siroes as an act of piety and justice. - (3) The best oriental accounts of this last period of 'torn. ii. p. 151— 250 ) who dissembles the parricide of SiAssemamii, Bibliothee. Oriental, torn. Hi. p. 415—420. (4) The letter of Siroes in the Paschal Chronicle, (p. 402.) unfortunaiThe treaty appears in its execution in the histories of Theophanes ant (5) The burden of Coraeille's song, " Montrez Heraclius au peupte qui I'attenrl.' of Siroes as an act of piety and justice.(3) The best oriental accounts of this last period of the Satsanian kings are found in Eutychius, (AnnaLm. ii. p. 251—250 ) who dissembles the parneide of Siroes; d'Herbelot, (Qibhotheque Orientate, p. 789.) and itely ends before he proceeds toand Nicephorus.