OCR Output O F R O M E. 431 number. Information was now received that the Vol- BOOKfcians and^ffiiquans, actuated by hopes which they con- . - _._fceived, from having been able to keep pofieflion of Y.R. 347.the citadel of Carventa, or by anger, for the lofs of B.C.+oj.the garrifon of Verrugo, had in conjunction com­menced hoftilities, with the utmoft force which theycould mufter, and that the Antians were the chiefpromoters of this meafure. That their ambafladorshad gone about among the ftates of both thofe na­tions, upbraiding their fpiritlefs conduct. That theyhad the year before lain hid behind walls, and fuf-fered the Romans to carry their depredationsthrough every part of their country, and the garrifonof Verrugo to be overpowered. That now, not on­ly armed troops, but colonies alfo, were fent intotheir territories; and that the Romans not only keptpofieffion of their property, and diftributed it amongthemfelves, but even made a prefent to the Hernici-ans of Terentinum, a diftrict of which they had beenftripped. People's minds being inflamed by thefcreprefentations, wherever they came great numbersof the young men were enlifted. Thus the youth ofall the feveral nations were drawn together toAntium, and there pitching their camp, they waitedfor the enemy. Thefe violent proceedings beingreported at Rome, and exaggerated beyond the truth,the fenate inftandy ordered a dictator to be nomi­nated, their ultimate refource in all perilous con­junctures. We are told that this meafure gave greatoffence to Julius and Cornelius, and was not accom-plifiied without a great deal of ill temper. Theprincipal patricians, after many fruitlefs complaintsagainft the military tribunes, for refufing to be di­rected by the fenate, at laft, went fo far, as to ap­peal to the tribunes of the commons, reprefenting,that compullbry meafures had been ufed by that bo­dy even to conluls in a fimilar cafe. The plebeiantribunes, overjoyed at this difienfion among the pa­tricians, made anfwer, that " there was no i'upport to "be