OCR Output CHAP. LI.; 391 / dare not go back; our foes are many, our danger isgreat, but our reward is splendid and secure, either inthis life or in the life to come. Let every man, accord­ing to his inclination, advance or retire. Not a Mussul­man deserted his standard. Lead the way (said Abdallahto his Christian guide), and you shall see what the com­panions of the prophet can perform. They charged infive squadrons; but after the first advantage of the sur­prise, they were encompassed and almost overwhelmedby the multitude of their enemies; and their valiant bandis fancifully compared to a white spot in the skin of ablack camel.' About the hour of sunset, when theirweapons dropped from their hands, when they pantedon the verge of eternity, they discovered an approachingcloud of dust; they heard the welcome sound of thetecbir," and they soon perceived the standard of Caled,who flew to their relief with the utmost speed of his ca­valry. The Christians were broken by his attack, andslaughtered in their flight, as far as the river of Tripoli.They left behind them the various riches of the fair; themerchandises that were exposed for sale, the money thatwas brought for purchase, the gay decorations of thenuptials, and the governor's daughter, with forty of herfemale attendants. The fruits, provisions, and furniture,the money, plate, and jewels, were diligently laden onthe backs of horses, asses, and mules; and the holy rob­bers returned in triumph to Damascus. The hermit,after a short and angry controversy with Caled, declinedthe crown of martyrdom, and was left alive in the soli­tary scene of blood and devastation. 'I am bolder than Mr. Ockley, (vol. 1. p. 194.) who dares not insert this figu­rative expression in the text, though he observes in a marginal note, that the Ara­bians often borrow their similies from that useful and familiar animal. The rein­deer may be equally famous in the songe of the Laplanders."We heard the tecbir; so the Arabs callTheir shout of onset, when with loud appealThey challenge heaven, as if demanding conquest. - This word, so formidable in their holy wars, is a verb active (says Ockley in hisindex) of the second conjugation, from Kabbara, which signifies saying Alia Aciar!God is most mighty!