OCR Output 406 ROMAN EMPIRE. well, we shall meet again among the groves and fountainswhich God has provided for his elect. The faithful cap­tives might exercise a passive and more arduous resolu­tion; and a cousin of Mahomet is celebrated for refusing,after an abstinence of three days, the wine and pork, theonly nourishment that was allowed by the malice of theinfidels. The frailty of some weaker brethren exaspe­rated the implacable spirit of fanaticism: and the fatherof Amer deplored, in pathetic strains, the apostacy anddamnation of a son, who had renounced the promisesof God, and the intercession of the prophet, to occupy,with the priests and deacons, the lowest mansions of hell.The more fortunate Arabs who survived the war, andpersevered in the faith, were restrained by their abste­mious leader from the abuse of prosperity. After a re­freshment of three days, Abu Obeidah withdrew histroops from the pernicious contagion of the luxury ofAntioch, and assured the caliph that their religion andvirtue could only be preserved by the hard discipline ofpoverty and labour. But the virtue of Omar, howeverrigorous to himself, was kind and liberal to his brethren.After a just tribute of praise and thanksgiving, hedropped a tear of compassion; and, sitting down on theground, wrote an answer, in which he mildly censuredthe severity of his lieutenant. God (said the successorof the prophet) has not forbidden the use of the goodthings of this world to faithful men, and such as haveperformed good works. Therefore you ought to have giventhem leave to rest themselves, and partake freely of thosegood th ings wh ich the country affordeth. If any of the Sa­racens have no family in Arabia, they may marry in Syria;and whosoever of them wants any female slaves, he maypurchase as many as he hath occasion for. The conquer­ors prepared to use, or to abuse, this gracious permission;but the year of their triumph was marked by a mortalityof men and cattle; and twenty-five thousand Saracenswere snatched away from the possession of Syria. The