OCR Output n8 THE DECLINE AND FALL culture and commerce, the goodness of the roads, the discipline ofthe legions, and the indolent subdued temper of the provinces ,7.Disgrace of The first cares of Severus were bestowed on two measures, theguards?10"" one dictated by policy, the other by decency; the revenge, and thehonours due to the memory of Pertinax. Before the new emperorentered Rome, he issued his commands to the Prætorian guards,directing them to wait his arrival on a large plain near the city,without arms, but in the habits of ceremony, in which they wereaccustomed to attend their sovereign. He was obeyed by thosehaughty troops, whose contrition was the effect of their justterrors. A chosen part of the Illyrian army encompassed themwith levelled spears. Incapable of flight or resistance, they ex­pected their fate in silent consternation. Severus mounted thetribunal, sternly reproached them with perfidy and cowardice,dismissed them with ignominy from the trust they had betrayed,despoiled them of their splendid ornaments, and banished them,on pain of death, to the distance of an hundred miles from thecapital. During the transaction, another detachment had been sentto seize their arms, occupy their camp, and prevent the hastyconsequences of their despair 38.Funeral and -yjjg funeral and consecration of Pertinax was next solemnized apotheosis or Pertinax. with every circumstance of fad magnificence 39. The senate, witha melancholy pleasure, performed the last rites to that excellentprince, whom they had loved, and still regretted. The concern ofhis successor was probably less sincere. He esteemed the virtues ofPertinax, but those virtues would for ever have confined his ambitionto a private station. Severus pronounced his funeral oration withstudied eloquence, inward satisfaction, and well acted sorrow; andby this pious regard to his memory, convinced the credulous mul­titude that he alone was worthy to supply his place. Sensible,however, that arms, not ceremonies, must assert his claim to the empire;