OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL people, and the assassin, in the fulness of power, was driven from his capital intovoluntary and perpetual exile. Constans embarked for Greece; and, as if hemeant to retort the abhorrence which he deserved, he is said from the imperialgalley, to have spit against the walls of his native city. After passing the winterat Athens, he sailed to Tarentum in Italy, visited Rome, and concluded a longpilgrimage of disgrace and sacrilegious rapine, by fixing his residence at Syra­cuse. But if Constans would fly from his people, he could not fly from himself.The remorse of his conscience created a phantom who pursued him by land andsea, by day and by night; and the visionary Theodosius, presented to his lips a cupof blood, said, or seemed to say, Drink, brother, drink; a sure emblem of the ag­gravation of his guilt, since he had received from the hands of the deacon the mys­tic cup of the blood of Christ. Odious to himself and to mankind, Constans pe­rished by domestic, perhaps by episcopal treason, in the capital of Sicily. A ser­vant who waited in the bath, after pouring warm water on his head, struck himviolently with the vase. He fell, stunned by the blow, and suffocated by the wa­ter; and his attendants, who wondered at the tedious delay, beheld with indiffer­ence the corpse of their lifeless emperor. The troops of Sicily invested with thepurple an obscure youth, whose inimitable beauty eluded, and it might easily elude,the declining art of the painters and sculptors of the age. Constans had left in the Byzantine palace three sons, the eldest of whom hadbeen clothed in his infancy with the purple. When the father summoned themto attend his person in Sicily, these precious hostages were detained by the Greeks,and a firm refusal informed him that they were the children of the state. Thenews of his murder was conveyed with almost supernatural speed from Syracuseto Constantinople; and Constantine, the eldest of his sons, inherited his thronewithout being the heir of the public hatred. His subjects contributed, with zealand alacrity, to chastise the guilt and presumption of a province which had usurpedthe rights of the senate and people: the young emperor sailed from the Hellespontwith a powerful fleet; and the legions of Rome and Carthage were assembled un­der his standard in the harbour of Syracuse. The defeat of the Sicilian tyrant waseasy, his punishment just, and his beauteous head was exposed in the hippodrome;but I cannot applaud the clemency of a prince, who, among a crowd of victims,condemned the son of apatrician, for deploring with some bitterness the executionof a virtuous father. The youth was castrated; he survived the operation, andthe memory of this indecent cruelty is preserved by the elevation of Germanusto the rank of a patriarch and saint. After pouring this bloody libation on hisfather's tomb, Constantine returned to his capital, and the growth of his youngbeard during the Sicilian voyage, was announced by the familiar surname of Po-gonatus, to the Grecian world. But his reign, like that of his predecessor, wasstained with fraternal discord. On his two brothers, Heraclius and Tiberius, hehad bestowed the title of Augustus; an empty title, for they continued to languishwithout trust or power in the solitude of the palace. At their secret instigation,the troops of the Anatolian theme or province approached the city on the Asiaticside, demanded for the royal brothers, the partition or exercise of sovereignty,and supported their seditious claim by a theological argument. They were Chris­tians, (they cried,) and orthodox catholics; the sincere votaries of the holy and un­divided Trinity. Since there are three equal persons in heaven, it is reasonablethere should be three equal persons upon earth. The emperor invited these learneddivines to a friendly conference; in which they might propose their arguments to thesenate; they obeyed the summons; but the prospect of their bodies hanging on a gib­bet in the suburb of Galata, reconciled their companions to the unity of the reign ofConstantine. He pardoned his brothers, and their names were still pronouncedin the public acclamations; but on the repetition or suspicion of a similar offence,the obnoxious princes were deprived of their titles and noses, in the presence ofthe catholic bishops who were assembled at Constantinople, in the sixth generalsynod. In the close of his life, Pogonatus was anxious only to establish the rightof primogeniture: the hair of his two sons, Justinian and Heraclius, was offered onthe shrine of St. Peter, as a symbol of their spiritual adoption by the pope; butthe elder was alone exalted to the rank of Augustus and the assurance of the em­pire. After the decease of his father, the inheritance of the Roman world devolvedto Justinian II. and the name of a triumphant lawgiver was dishonoured by thevices of a'boy, who imitated his namesake onlv in the expensive luxury of build­ing. His passions were strong; his understanding was feeble; and he was intoxi­