OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 151 any donation that was worth mentioning. But Agrippa's tem­per was mild, and equally liberal to all men. He was humaneto foreigners, and made them sensible of his liberality. He wasin like manner rather of a gentle and compassionate temper.Accordingly, he loved to live continually at Jerusalem, and wasexactly careful in the observance of the laws of his country.—He therefore kept himself entirely pure ; nor did any day passover his head without its appointed sacrifice. 4. However, there was a certain man of the Jewish nation atJerusalem, who appeared to be very accurate in the knowledgeof the law. His name was Simon. This man got together anassembly, while the king was absent at Cesarea, and had the inso­lence to accuse him as not living holily, and that he might justlybe excluded out of the temple, since it belonged only to nativeJews. But the general of Agrippa's army informed him, thatSimon had made such a speech to the people. So the king sentfor him ; and, as he was sitting in the theatre, he bid him sitdown by him, and said to him with a low and gentle voice,'' What is there done in this place that is contrary to the law ?"But he had nothing to say for himself, but begged his pardon.So the king was more easily reconciled to him than one couldha-ve imagined, as esteeming mildness a better quality in a kingthan anger, and knowing that moderation is more becoming in'great men than passion. So he made Simon a small present, anddismissed him. 5. Now, as Agrippa was a great builder in many places, hepaid a peculiar regard to the people of Berytus; for he erecteda theatre for them, superior to many other of that sort, both insumptuousness and elegance, as also an amphitheatre, built atvast expences ; and besides these, he built them baths and porti­coes, and spared for no costs in any of his edifices, to render themboth handsome and large. He also spent a great deal upon theirdedication, and exhibited shows upon them, and brought thithermusicians of all sorts, and such as made the most delightfulmusic of the greatest variety. He also shewed his magnificenceupon the theatre, in his great number of gladiators ; and there itwas that he exhibited the several antagonists, in order to pleasethe spectators ; no fewer indeed than seven hundred men to fightwith seven hundred other men * ; and allotted all the malefactorshe had for this exercise, that both the malefactors might receivetheir punishment, and that this operation of war might be a re­creation in peace. And thus were these criminals all destroyedat once. CHAP. « A strange number of condemned criminals to be under the sentence of deathit once; no fewer, it seems, than 1400 !