OCR Output AN. 521 43^ ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. count his adversaries could not so much asobtain a hearing. This favour Herod hadgained by money: but still, when Antony wascome to Ephesus, Hyrcanus, the high-priest,and our nation, sent an ambassage to him:which carried a crown of gold with them;and desired that he would write to the gov­ernors of the provinces, to set those Jewsfree, who had been carried captive by Cas­sius; and this without their having foughtagainst him: and to restore them that coun­try, which in the days of Cassius had beentaken from them. Antony thought the Jews'desires were just: and wrote immediately toHyrcanus, and to the Jews. He also sent, atthe same time, a decree to the Tyrians; thecontents of which were to the same purpose."Marcus Antonius, imperator, to Hyrcanus,the high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews,sendeth greeting. If you be in health, it iswell: I am also in health, with the army.Lysimachus, the son of Pausanius, and Jose-phus, the son of Menneus, and Alexander, theson of Theodorus, your ambassadors, met meat Ephesus; and have renewed that ambas­sage which they had formerly been upon atRome; and have diligently acquitted them­selves of the present ambassage, which thouand thy nation have entrusted to them; andhave fully declared the good will thou hastfor us. I am therefore satisfied, both by youractions, and your words, that "you are welldisposed to us: and I understand that yourconduct of life is constant, and religious. SoI reckon upon you as our own. But whenthose that were adversaries to you, and to theRoman people, and abstained neither fromcities, nor temples; and did not observe theagreement they had confirmed by oath; itwas not only on account of our own contestwith them, but on account of all mankind incommon, that we have taken vengeance onthose who have been the authors of great in­justice towards men, and of great wickednesstowards the gods. For the sake of whichwe suppose it was that the *sun turnedaway his light from us; as unwilling to view the horrid crime they were guilty of in thecase of Caesar. We have also overcome theirconspiracies, which threatened the gods them­selves, which Macedonia received: as it is aclimate peculiarly proper for impious and in­solent attempts: and we have overcome thatconfused rabble, half mad with spite againstus, which they got together at Philippi, inMacedonia; when they seized on the placesthat were proper for their purpose, and. as itwere, walled them round with mountains tothe very sea; and where the passage wasopen only through a single gate. This vic­tory we gained, because the gods had con­demned these men for their wicked enter­prises. Now Brutus, when he had fled as faras Philippi, was shut up by us: and became apartaker of the same perdition with Cassius.And now these have received their punish­ment, we suppose that we may enjoy peacefor the time to come: and that Asia may beat rest from war. We therefore make thatpeace which God hath given us common toour confederates also: insomuch that thebody of Asia is now recovered out of thatdistemper it was under, by the means of ourvictory. I therefore, bearing in mind boththee and your nation, shall take care of whatmay be for your advantage. I have also sentepistles in writing to the several cities: thatif any persons, whether freemen or bondmen,have been sold funder the spear by CaiusCassius, or his subordinate officers, they maybe set free. And I will that you kindly makeuse of the favours which I and Dolabellahave granted you. I also forbid the Tyriansto use any violence with you; and for whatplaces of the Jews they now possess, 1 orderthem to restore them. I have withal accept­ed of the crown which thou sentest me." "Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the ma­gistrates, senate, and people of Tyre, sendethgreeting. The ambassadors of Hyrcanus,high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews, appear­ed1 before me at Ephesus, and told me, thatyou are in possession of part of their country;which you entered upon under the govern­ sephus himself in the history Of the War, I. 12. directsus to read, IraXiav, Italy. For thither went OctaviusCaesar, after he and Antony had beaten Brutus and Cassiusat Philippi. Whence Antony went into Asia, as Josephusagrees with them.* This clause plainly alludes to that well known, but unusual and very long darkness of the sun, which hap­pened upon the murder of Julius Caesar, by Brutus andCassius: which is taken great notice of by Virgil, Pliny,and other Roman authors. See Virgil's Georgics 1. justbefore the end; and Pliny's Natural History, II. 30.t Publicly.