OCR Output UTICA VULTUR MONS. 1329 rail it her alliance with, Carthage, and, with othercities of N. Africa, to have joined the Sicilian Aga-thudes, the opponent of Cartilage; to have afterwardsrevolted from thatconqueror,but to have been again re-iluced toobedienee(Diod. xx. 17,54: cf. Polyb. i. 82).Jn the First Punic War, Utica remained faithful toCarthage; afterwards it joined the Libyans, bat w&icompelled to submit by the victorious Carthaginians(lMyb.ii.88: Diod. Fr.xxv.). In the Second PunicWar also we find it in firm alliance villi Cartilage, tofclnne fleets the excellent harbour of Utica was very•en i resole. But this exposed it to many attacks fromtlie Romans, whose freebootiug excursions were fre­quently directed against it from Lilybaeuin, as wella. to a more regular, but fruitless siege by Scipiohimself (I.iv. xxv. 31, xxvii. 5, xviii. 4, xxix. 35, XX x.3, Jcc. ; Polyb. xiv. 3 ; Appian, I\nic. 16, 25, 30).Jn the third war, however, the situation of Carthagebring now ho]«less, the Uticenses indulged theirancient grudge against that city, and made theirsubmission to Rome by a serrate embassy (Polyb.xxxvL 1 ; Appian, J'un. 75, 110, 113). This stepgreatly increased the material prosperity of Utica.After the destruction of Carthage, the Romans pre­sented Utica with the fertile district lying betweenthat city and Hippo Diarrhytus. It became the chieftown of the province, the residence of the Romangovernor, the principal emporium for the Romanand the port of debarcation for the Komandestined to act in the interior of Africa.D«inr; to this intimate connection with Home, the name/ Utica appears very frequently in the later historyjf the republic, as in the accounts of the JugurthinetVar, ii( the war carried on by l'ompey at the headi Sullaa faction, against the Marian party under'tamitioa and hia ally the Numidian king larhas,ind in the straggle between Caesar and the Poui-viana, with their ally Juba, It is unnecessary to|iwte lire numerous passages in vvhich the name of'ilea occurs in relation to these events. In the lastI these wars, Utica was the scene of the celebratedLealb of the younger Cato, so often related or ad-erted to by the ancients (Hut. Cat Min. r>8, seq.:>i -ri Caas. xliii. 10, sqq.; Val. Max. iii. 2. § 14; Cic.to Ligat. 1, &c ; cf. Diet, of Biogr. Vol. 1. p.A'J). Augustus presented the Uticenses with thebenan eiritat, partly an a reward for the inclinationrhich they had manifesttsl for the party of bis uncle,ntl partly also to indemnify them for the rebuildingf Carthage (I)iou Cass. xlix. 16 ; cf. Srxt. Rufus,Irrv. 4). We know nothing more of Utica till theme of Hadrian, who visited N. Africa in his ex­clusive travels, and at whose desire the city changed• ancient constitution for that of a Roman colonys|«ruan. Badr. 13; (Jell. If. Att. xvi. 13). Thusappears in the Tab. J'rut. with the appellation ofotunia, as well as in an inscription preserved in theinaeuni of Leyden (Col. JuL Atl. Hair. Utic., ap.sriaaen, JUut. lugd. Balav. Inter. Gr. et Lot.).rptimina Severus, an African by birth, endowed. u well aa Carthage and his birthplace I.eptislaena, with the Jus ltalicum. We find the bishopsl/tic* frequently mentioned in the Christian periodnm the) time of the great Synod under Cyprian ofart bag* in 256, down to 684, when a bishop ofUca appeared in the Council of Toledo. The citysaid to have witnessed the martyrdom of 300r><« at one time (cf. Morcelli, Afr. Christ, i. p.",2, U. p. 150 ; Muuter, Primod. Eccl Afr. p. 32;j£u»Un, e. Dvnat. vii. 8). Utica probably fell:h Carthage, into the hands of the Vandals under\ ou u. Genserlc in 439. Subsequently it was recoveretl bythe Byzantine emperors, but in the reign of thoCbalif Abdchnalek was conquered by tho Arabiansunder Hassan ; and though it appears to have beenagain recovered by John the prelect or patrician, itfinally sank under the power of the Saracens duringthe reign of the same Chalif, and on its second cap­ture was destroyed (cf. Papencordt, die Vandal Herr-$chafl in Afr. p. 72, sq., 151, sq. ; Weil, Often,dtr Chalifer, i. p. 473, sqq. ; Gibbon, Uecl. ami Fall,vi. 350, sqq ed. Smith). The remains of its marblesand columns were carried away in the precedingcentury, to serve as materials for the great mosqueof Tunis (Semilassn, p. 43.) Several coins of Utica are extant bearing the headsof Tiberius or I.ivia ; a testimony perhaps of thegratitude of the city for the rights bestowed upon itby Augustus (cf. Mionnet, Mid. Ant. vi. p. 589;Supp. viii. p 208). [T. H. D.] UTIDAVA (OirrOowt, Ptol. viii. 8. § 7). a townin Dacia, E. of the Aluta. Identified with the ruinsat Kosmin, near the confluence of the Kuttchur andthe Pruth (cf. Ukert, iii. pt. ii. p. 620.) [T. H. D.] UTII (OCtioi), one of the nations belonging to tinfourteenth satrapy of the Persian empire (Herod,iii. 93). which was anned in the same manner aathe Pactyes (Id. vii. 68), and, according to Uobrik'sconjecture, perhaps dwelt in Pactyica. (Grog, dtsI/erod. p. 181.) [J. R.] U ITS or VrnS(J/onrone), a river of Gallia Cis-alpina, which rises in the Apennines, flows underthe walls of Forli (Forum Livii), and subsequentlyby the city of Ravenna, and enters the Adriaticabout 5 miles from that city. At the picscnt dayit joins the Ronco (the Iledesia of Pliny), beforereaching the latter city, but in ancient times it pro­bably discharged its waters by a separate channelinto the laguues which at that time surruumledRavenna. The name is written Vitis by Pliny (iii.14. s. 19), but it is probable that Utisor Utensis themore correct form, which is found in Livy. Accordingto that author it at one time formed the boundarybetween the Boian ai.d Seuouian Gaula, (Liv. v.35.) [E. H. B.] UTTARIS, a town of the Callaici in the NW. ofHispania Tarraconcnsis, on the road from I.urnsAu^usti to Asturica, between Pons Neviae and Ber-gidum. (/(in. Ant. pp. 425, 430.) Variously iden­tified with Cerredo, Voncot, and Ciutro de laVentota. [T. H. D ] UTUS, an affluent of the Danube in M<*sia. TheUtua had its sources in Mount Uaemus, and formedthe K. boundary of Dacia Ripensis (Plin. iii. 26.a. 29). Now the Vid. [T. H. D.] UTUS (Ofrair, Prorop. de Aed. iv. 1), a town ofMoesia Inferior, a little to the S. of the confluence ofthe like-named river with the Danube, and betweenOrscus and Securisca (Itin. Ant. p. 221). Variouslyidentified with Starotelttzi, JJutaluUch, and a placenear Brtttoralx. [T. 11. D.] VULCANI FORUM. [Pcteou] VUI.CAMAE1NSULAE. [AiouAKlNgiuiF..] VL'LCHALO is mentioned by Cicero (jrro f'on-teio, 9) as a place in the west part of Gallia Narbo-nensis, but nothing more is known of it, [G. L.J VULGIENTES. [Atta Ji ua.] VULSIMI. [Voiawii.] VULTUR MONS (Monte Voltare), one of themost celebrated mountains of Southern Italy, situ­ated on the confines of Apulia, Lucania, and tLecountry of the Hirptni. It commences ab"in 5 miles