OCR Output CHAP. L. 281 tution of his cattle. And why (said Abrahah) do younot rather implore my clemency in favour of your temple,which I have threatened to destroy?—Because (repliedthe intrepid chief) the cattle is my own: the Caaba be­longs to the gods, and they will defend their house frominjury and sacrilege. The want of provisions, or thevalour of the Koreish, compelled the Abyssinians to adisgraceful retreat: their discomfiture has been adornedwith a miraculous flight of birds, who showered downstones on the heads of the infidels; and the deliverancewas long commemorated by the era of the elephant.1The glory of Abdol Motalleb was crowned with Deliver- , . •. • i-/, anceof domestic happiness, his hie was prolonged tothe age of one hundred and ten years, and hebecame the father of six daughters and thirteen sons.His best beloved Abdallah was the most beautifuland modest of the Arabian youth; and in the first night,when he consummated his marriage with Amina, of thenoble race of the Zahrites, two hundred virgins are saidto have expired of jealousy and despair. Mahomet,or more properly Mahommed, the only son of Abdallahand Amina, was born at Mecca, four years after thedeath of Justinian, and two months after the defeat ofthe Abyssinians,u whose victory would have introducedinto the Caaba the religion of the Christians. In hisearly infancy, he was deprived of his father, his mother, 'The M'cnr of this history, or fable, is contained in the one hundred and fifthchapter of the Koran, and Gagnier (in Prsefat. ad Vit. Moharn. p. 18, &c.) hastranslated the historical narrative of Abulfeda, which may be illustrated fromd'Herbelot (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 12.) and Focock. (Specimen, p. 64.) Pri-deaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 48.) calls it a lie of the coinage of Mahomet; butSale, (Koran, p. 501—503.) who is half a Mussulman, attacks the inconsistentfaith of the doctor for believing the miracles of the Delphic Apollo. Maracci(Alcoran, torn. 1. part 'J. p. 14. torn. 2. p. 823.) ascribes the miracle to the devil,and extorts from the Mahometans the confession, that God would not have de­fended against the Christians the idols of the Caaba. "The safest eras of Abulfeda, (in Vit . c. 1. p. 2.) of Alexander, or the Greeks,88^, of Bocht Naser, or Nabonasser, 1316, equally lead us to the year 569. Theold Arabian calendar is too dark and uncertain to support the Benedictines, (Artde verifier les Dates, p. 15.) who from the day of the month and week deduce anew mode of calculation, and remove the birth of Mahomet to the year of Christ570, the tenth of November. Yet this date would agree with the year 882 of theGreeks, which is assigned by Elmaciu (Hist. Saracen, p. 5.) and Abulpharagius.(Dynast.p. 101. and Errata Pocock's version.) While we refine our chronology,it is possible that the illiterate prophet was ignorant of his own age.