OCR Output Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 441 already occur among these Roman teachers; the philosopherPanaetius has been already mentioned (P. 432); the esteemedgrammarian Crates of Mallus in Cilicia, the contemporaryand equal rival of Aristarchus, found about 585 at Pome 169.an audience for the recitation and philological and practicalillustration of the Homeric poems. It is true that thisnew mode of juvenile instruction, revolutionary and anti-national as it was, encountered partially the resistance ofthe government; but the edict of dismissal, which theauthorities in 593 fulminated against rhetoricians and phi- ici.losophers, remained (chiefly owing to the constant changeof the Roman chief magistrates) like all similar commandswithout any result worth mentioning, and after the deathof old Cato there were still perhaps frequent complaintsin accordance with his views, but there was no furtheraction. The higher instruction in Greek and in the sciencesof Greek culture remained thenceforth recognized as anessential part of Italian training. But by its side there sprung up also a higher Latin Latin in-instruction. We have shown in the previous epoch how stiuction.Latin elementary instruction raised its character; how theplace of the Twelve Tables was taken by the Latin Odysseyas it were by an improved primer, and the Poman boy wasnow trained to the knowledge and delivery of his mother-tongue by means of this translation, as the Greek by meansof the original: how noted teachers of the Greek languageand literature, Andronicus, Ennius, and others, who alreadyprobably taught not children properly so called but boysgrowing up to maturity and young men, did not disdain togive instruction in the mother-tongue along with the Greek.These were the first steps towards a higher Latin instruc­tion, but they did not as yet form such an instruction itself.Instruction in a language cannot go beyond the elementarystage, so long as it wants a literature. It was not until therewere not merely Latin schoolbooks but a Latin literature, andthat literature subsisted with a certain completeness in theworks of the classics of the sixth century, that the mother-tongue and the native literature truly entered the circle ofthe elements of higher culture; and the emancipation fromthe Greek schoolmasters was now not slow to follow. Stirred Publicup by the Homeric prelections of Crates, cultivated Pomans readings ofbegan to read the recitative works of their own literature, classll;alNaevius' Punic War, Ennius' Annals, and subsequently also