OCR Output JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. 25 accounts for the firm hold with which they main'tained their possession of their stronghold, the capitalof their tribe, for upwards of five centuries after thecoining in of the children of Israel under Joshua(cir. a. c 1585); during which period, according toJosephus, they held uninterrupted and exclusivepossession of the Upper City, while the Israelites(whether of the tribe of Judah or of Benjamin is un­certain) seem only to have occupied the LowerCity for a time, and then to have been expelledby the garrison of the Upper City. (Joseph. Ant. v.2. §§ 2, 5, 7; camp. Judges, i. 8, 21, xix. 10—12.) 2. It was not until after David, having reignedseven years in Hebron, came into undisputed posses­sion of the kingdom of Israel, that Jerusalem wasfinally subjugated (cir. B.c. 1049) and the Jebusitegarrison expelled. It was then promoted to thedignity of the capital of his kingdom, and the Upperand Lower City were united and encircled by onewall. (1 Chron. xi. 8; comp. Joseph. Ant. vii. 3. Under his son Solomon it became also the eccle­siastical head of the nation, and the Ark of theCovenant, and the Tabernacle of the Congregation,alter having been long dissevered, met on the thresh­ing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite, on Mount Moriah.(1 Chron. xxi. 15; 2 Chron. iii. 1.) Besides erect­ion the Temple, king Solomon further adorned thecity with palaces and public buildings. (1 Kings,vi. viii. 1—8.) The notices of the city from thisperiod are very scanty. Threatened by Shisbak,king of Egypt (b. c. 972), and again by the Arabiansunder 7-erah (cir. 950), it was sacked by the com­bined Philistines and Arabs during the disastrousreign of Jehoram (884), and subsequently by theIsraelites, after their victory over Amaziah atBethshemesh (cir. B. c. 808). In the invasion ofthe confederate armies of Pckah of Israel and Rezinof Syria, during the reign of Ahaz, the capitalbarely escaped (cir. 730; comp. Isaiah, vii. 1—9,and 2 Kings, xvi. 5, with 2 Chron. xxviii. 5); as itdid in a still more remarkable manner in the follow­ing reign, when invested twice, as it would seem, bythe generals of Sennacherib, king of Assyria (it. c.713). The deportation of Manasseh to Babylonwould seem to intimate that the city was cap­tured by the Chaldeans as early as 650; but thefact is not recorded expressly in the sacred nar­rative. (2 Chron. xxxiii.) From this period itsdisasters thickened apace. After the battle ofMezuldo it was taken by Pharaoh Necho, king ofEgypt (b. c 609), who held it only about twoyears, when it passed, together with the wholecountry under the sway of the Chaldeans, andJeboiakim and some of the princes of the bloodmval were carried to Babylon, with part of thesarred vessels of the Temple. A futile attempt onthe part of Jehoiakim to regain his independenceafter his restoration, resulted in his death; and hisson had only been seated on his tottering thronethree months when Nebuchadnezzar again besiegedand took the city (598), and the king, with therutal family and principal officers of state, werecarried to Babylon, Zedekiah having been appointedby the conqueror to the nominal dignity of king.Having held it nearly ten years, he revolted, whenthe city was a third time besieged by Nebuchad­nezzar (b. c 587). The Temple and all the build­ings of Jerusalem were destroyed by fire, and itswalls completely demolished. 3. As the entire desolation of the city does not appear to have continued more than fifty years, the"seventy years" must date from the first depor­tation; and its restoration was a gradual work, asthe desolation had been. The first commissionissued in favour of the Jews in the first year ofCyrus (B.C. 538) contemplated only the restorationof the Temple, which was protracted, in consequenceof numerous vexatious interruptions, for 120 years,— i. e. until the eighth year of Darius Nothus (b.c418). According to the most probable chronologyit was his successor, Artaxerxes Mnemon, whoissued the second commission to Ezra, in the se­venth year of his reign, and a third to Kehemiah inhis twentieth year (b. c. 385). It was only invirtue of the edict with which ho was intrusted,backed by the authority with which he was armedas the civil governor of Palaestine, that the resto­ration of the city was completed; and it has beenbefore remarked that the account of the rebuildingof the walls clearly intimates that the limits of therestored city were identical with that of the pre­ceding period: but the topographical notices arc notsufficiently clear to enable us to determine with anydegree of accuracy or certainty the exact line of thewalls. (See the attempts of Schultz, pp. 82—91;and Williams, Memoir, 111—121.) Only fifty yearsafter its restoration Jerusalem passed into the powerof a new master (b. c. 332), when, according toJosephus, the conqueror visited Jerusalem, afterthe subjugation of Gaza, and accorded to its in­habitants several important privileges (Josephus,Ant. xi. 8). On the death of Alexander, and thedivision of his conquests among his generals, it wasthe ill-fortune of Judaea to become the frontier pro­vince of the rival kingdoms of Egypt and Syria; andit was consequently seldom free from the miseries ofwar. Ptolemy Sotcr was the first to seize it,—bytreachery, according to Josephus (b. c. 305), whoadds that he ruled over it with violence. (Ant. xii.1.) But the distinctions which he conferred uponsuch of its inhabitants as he carried into Egypt,and the privileges which he granted to their highpriest, Simon the son of Onias, do not bear out thisrepresentation (Ecclus. 1. I, 2.) But his successor,Ptolemy Philadelphus, far outdid him in liberality;and the embassy of his favourite minister Aristeas,in conjunction with Andreas, the chief of his body­guard, to the chief priest Eleazar, furnishes us withan apparently authentic, and certainly genuine,account of the city in the middle of the third cen­tury before the Christian era, of which an outlinemay be here given. "It was situated in the midstof mountains, .on a lofty hill, whose crest wascrowned wilh the magnificent Temple, girt with threewalls, seventy cubits high, of proportionate thick­ness and length corresponding to the extent of the building The Temple had an eastern aspect: its spacious courts, paved throughout with marble,covered immense reservoirs containing large suppliesof water, which gushed out by mechanical con­trivance to wash away the blood of the numerous sacrifices offered there on the festivals The foreigners viewed the Temple from a strong fortresson its north side, and describe the appearance which the city presented It was of moderate extent, being about forty furlongs in circuit. The disposition of its towers resembled the arrangementof a theatre: Home of the streets ran along thebrow of the hill; others, lower down, but parallel tothese, followed the course of the valley, and theywere connected by cross streets. The city was built