OCR Output .Ii' : ,r'\- i i-ii' . L I F E . - ' . . '.. . or . - .-v FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. ) 1. HPHE family from which I am derived is not an ignoble4i one, but hath descended all along from the priests ; andas nobility among several people is of a different origin, so withus to be of a sacerdotal dignity, is an indication of the splendourof a family. Now, I am not only, sprung from a sacerdotal farmily in general, but from the first of the twenty-four* courses;and as among us there is not only a considerable difference be­tween one family of each course and another, 1 am of the chieffamily of that first course also; nay, farther, by my mother Iam of the royal blood ; for the children of Asamoneus, fromwhom that family was derived, had both the office of the high-priesthood, and the dignity of a king, for a long time together. Iwill accordingly set down my progenitors in order. My grand­father's father was named Simon, with the addition of Psellus :he lived at the same time with that son of Simon the high-priest,who first of all the high-priests was named Hyrcanus. This Si­mon Psellus had nine sons, one of which was Matthias, calledEphlias ; he married the daughter of Jonathan the high-priest,which Jonathan was the first of the sons of Asamoneus whowas high-priest, and was the brother of Simon the high-priestalso. This Matthias had a son called Matthias Curtus, and thatin the first year of the government of Hyrcanus ; his son's namewas Joseph, born in the ninth year of the reign of Alexandra:his son Matthias was born in the tenth year of the reign of Ar- chelaus: * We may hence correct the error of the Latin copy of the second bookagainst Apion, sect. 7. 8. '(for the Greek is there lost), which says, there werethen only four tribes of courses of the priests instead of twenty-four. Nor isthis testimony to be disregarded, as if Josephus there contradicted what he hadaffirmed here i because even the account there given better agrees to twenty-fourthan to four courses, while he says that each of those courses contained above5000 men, which, multiplied by only four, will make not more than 20,000priests: whereas the number 120,000, as multiplied by 14, seems much the mostprobable, they being about one-tenth of the whole people, even after the capti­vity. See Ezra. ii. 36—30—Nehem. vii. 39.—42. 1. Esd. v. 24, 25. with Ezra,ii. 64. Nehem. vii. 66. 1 Esd. v. 41. Nor will this common reading or notionof but four courses of priests, agree with Josephus's own farther assertion else­where, Antiq. B. VII. ch. xiv. sect. 7. that David's partition of the priests intotwenty.four courses had continued to that day.