OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.- BOOK XXXII. 371 and a part of the wall demolished by the enemy's works,they became disposed to capitulate. But they had agarrison of Macedonians, of whom they stood in noless dread than of the Romans; and Philocles, theking's general, sent frequent messages from Chalcis,that he would bring them succor in due time, if theycould hold out the siege. The hope of this, in con足junction with their fears, obliged them to protract thetime longer than was consistent either with their wishesor their strength. However, having learned soon afterthat Philocles had been repulsed in the attempt, andforced to fly back in disorder to Chalcis, they instantlysent deputies to Attalns to beg pardon and protection.While intent on the prospect of peace, they remittedtheir diligence in the duties of war, and kept armedguards in that quarter only where the breach had beenmade in the wall, neglecting all the rest; Quintiusmade an assault by night on the side where it was leastapprehended, and carried the town by scalade. Thetownsmen, with their wives and children, fled into thecitadel, but soon after surrendered themselves pri足soners. The quantity of money, of gold and silvertaken, was not great. Of statues and pictures, theworks of ancient artists, and other ornaments of thatkind, a greater number was found than could be ex足pected, either from the size of the city, or its opulencein other particulars. 17. The design on Carystus was then resumed, andthe fleets sailed thither; on which the whole body ofthe inhabitants, before the troops were disembarked,deserted the city and fled into the citadel, whence theysent deputies to beg protection from the Roman general.To the townspeople life and liberty were immediatelygranted; and it was ordered that the Macedoniansshould pay a ransom of three hundred drachmas' ahead, deliver up their arms, and quit the country.After being thus ransomed, they were transported, un足armed, to Boeotia. The combined fleets having, in the '91.13s. 9d.