OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL.. women and eunuchs, whose interests and passions she in­dulged at the expense of justice; the most illustriouspersonages of the state were crowded into a dark andsultry antichamber, and when at last, after tedious at­tendance, they were admitted to kiss the feet of Theo­dora, they experienced, as her humour might suggest,the silent arrogance of an empress, or the capricious le­vity of a comedian. Her rapacious avarice to accumu­late an immense treasure, may be excused by the appre­hension of her husband's death, which could leave noalternative between ruin and the throne; and fear aswell as ambition might exasperate Theodora against twogenerals, who, during a malady of the emperor, had rash­ly declared that they were not disposed to acquiesce inthe choice of the capital. But the reproach of cruelty,so repugnant even to her softer vices, has left an indeliblestain on the memory of Theodora. Her numerousspies observed, and zealously reported, every action, orword, or look, injurious to their royal mistress. Whom­soever they accused were cast into her peculiar prisons,1'inaccessible to the inquiries of justice; and it was ru­moured, that the torture of the rack, or scourge, hadbeen inflicted in the presence of a female tyrant, insen­sible to the voice of prayer or of pity.' Some of theseunhappy victims perished in deep unwholesome dun­geons, while others were permitted, after the loss of theirlimbs, their reason, or their fortune, to appear in theworld the living monuments of her vengeance, whichwas commonly extended to the children of those whomshe had suspected or injured. The senator or bishop,whose death or exile Theodora had pronounced, was de­livered to a trusty messenger, and his diligence was quick­ened by a menace from her own mouth. "If you failin the execution of my commands, I swear by him who h Her prisons, a labyrinth, a Tartarus, (Anecdot. c. 4.) were under the palace.Darkness is propitious to cruelty, but il is likewise favourable to calumny and fictioo. 1 A more jocular whipping was inflicted on Saturninus, for presuming to say thathis wile, a favourite of the empress, had not been found aifno;. (Anecdot. c. 17.)