OCR Output 202 [book ti. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS about him weapons suitable to the largenessof his body; for he had a breast-plate on thatweighed five thousand shekels. He had alsoa helmet, and greaves of brass as large asyou would naturally suppose might cover thelimbs of so vast a body. His spear was alsosuch as was not carried like a light thing inhis right hand; but he carried it as lying onhis shoulders. He had also a lance of sixhundred shekels, and many followed him tocarry his armour. Wherefore this Goliathstood between the two armies, as they werein battle array; and sent out a loud voice,and said to Saul and to the Hebrews: "I willfree you from fighting and from dangers. Forwhat necessity is there that your army shouldfall, and be afflicted? Give me a man of youthat will fight with me; and he that conquersshall have the reward of the conqueror, anddetermine the war; for these shall serve thoseothers to whom the conqueror shall belong.And certainly it is much better and moreprudent to gain what you desire by the hazardof one man, than of all."* When he had saidthis, he retired to his own camp. But thenext day he came again, and used the samewords; and did not leave off for forty daystogether to challenge the enemy in the samewords, till Saul and his army were therewithterrified; while they put themselves in arrayas if they would fight, but did not come to anengagement. Now while this war between the Hebrewsand the Philistines was going on, Saul sentaway David to his father Jesse, and con­tented himself with those three sons of his,whom he had sent to his assistance, and to bepartners in the dangers of the war. Andat first, David returned to feed his flocks; butafter no long time he came to the camp ofthe Hebrews, being sent by his father tocarry provisions to his brethren,f and toknow what they were doing; while Goliathcame again, and challenged them, and re­proached them, that they had no man ofvalour among them that durst come down andfight him. Now as David was talking withhis brethren about the business for which hisfather had sent him, he heard the Philistinereproaching and abusing the army, and hadindignation at it; and said to his brethren,"I am ready to fight a single combat withthis adversary." Hereupon Eliab, and hiselder brother, reproved him, and said, thathe spake too rashly and improperly for oneof his age; and bade him go to his flocks,and to his father. So he was abashed at hisbrother's words, and went away; but stillspake to some of the soldiers, that he waswilling to fight with him that challengedthem. And when they had informed Saulwhat was the resolution of the young man,the king sent for him to come to him. Andwhen the king asked what he had to say, he their behalf, when he gives us an account of some bonesof a prodigious size which were found in Hebron; asAcosta, in his history of the Indies, lib. 1. c. 10. makesmention of bones of an incredible bigness, and of a race ofgiants of such a height, that an ordinary man could scarcereach their knees. Le Gere's and Patrick's Comment.Calmet's Dictionary, under the word Goliath, and Dis. ofthe Giants. B. * The words in which Goliath's challenge is expressed,are these, Why are you come out to set your battle in array?Am I not a Philistine, and you servants to Saul? Chooseyou a man for you, and let him come down to me: If he beable to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be yourservants; but if J prevail against him and kill him, then yeshall be our servants, and serve us. 1 Sam. xviii. 8. Anti­quity furnishes us with examples of several such likezombats, as Goliath here proposes, but with none moreremarkable, than that between the Horatii and Curiatii,related by Livy, lib. 1. c. 23. "In which case (as Gro-tius expresses himself, Be jure belli et pads, lib. 2. c. 23.)though the champions perhaps cannot, with all the inno­cence imaginable, engage in the combat, yet their re­spective states may, at least, allow of it, as a less evil; asan expedient whereby a decision is made, without the effu­sion of much blood, or any considerable loss on either side,which of the two nations shall have the dominion over the other. Strabo (says he) makes mention of this as anancient custom among the Greeks; and iEneas appeals tothe Latins, whether it is not highly just and equitable, thathe and Tumus should determine the controversy betweenthem even in this manner." But whether there was anycombat stipulated to be decisive of the quarrel betweenthe two contending nations, it is certain that this speech ofGoliath's was a mere bravado, proceeding from a highopinion he had of his own matchless strength, as if he hadbeen the whole support of the nation, which was to standor fall together with him. For that he had no authorityfrom the prince of the Philistines to make any such decla­ration, is evident from the event: since so far were thePhilistines from yielding themselves slaves to the He­brews, upon the death of this champion, that thry madethe best of their way into their own country, and theredefended themselves, and fought many battles with themafterwards. Saurin's Dissert, vol. 4. Dissert. 32, andPatrick's and Le Clerc's Comrrent. B. t In those days it was customary for men to serve theirking and country in the wars at their own expense; andtherefore Jesse sent a supply of provisions to such of hissons as were in the service; but since he had other sonsat home, while David was chiefly in (he fields, it seems tobe by a divine direction that he sent him from the sheepupon this errand. B.