OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 1 S3 into it, and saw how strong the place was, he broke his oaths,and ordered his army that was there to pluck down the wallsto the ground, and when he had so done, he returned to An-tioch: he also carried with him Onias the high priest, who wasalso called Menelaus; for Lysias advised the king to slay Mene-laus, if he would have the Jews be quiet, and cause him nofarther disturbance, for that this man was the origin of all themischief the Jews had done them, by persuading his father tocompel the Jews to leave the religion of their fathers: So theking sent Menelaus to Berea, a city of Syria, and there had him>put to death, when he had been high priest ten years. He hadbeen a wicked and an impious man: and, in order to get the go­vernment to himself, had compelled his nation to transgress theirown laws. After the death of Menelaus, Alcimus, who wasalso called Jacimus, was made high priest. But when king An-tiochus found that Philip had already possessed himself of thegovernment, he made war against him, and subdued him, andtook him and slew him. Now, as to Onias the son of the highpriest, who, as we before informed you, was left a child whenhis father died, when he saw that the king had slain his uncleMenelaus, and given the high priesthood to Alcimus, who wasnot of the high priest stock, but as induced by Lysias to translatethat dignity from this family to another house, he fled to Ptole­my, king of Egypt, and when he found he was in great esteemwith him, and with his wife Cleopatra, he desired and obtaineda place in the Nomus of Heliopolis, wherein he built a templelike to that at Jerusalem: of which therefore we shall hereaftergive an account in a place more proper for it. CHAP. X. How Bacchides, the general of Demetrius' army, made an expe­dition against Judea, and returned without success; and hawNicanor was sent a little afterward against Judas, andperish-ed, together with his army : as also concerning the death of Al­cimus, and the succession of Judas. § 1. ABOUT the same time Demetrius, the son of Seleucus,fled away from Rome, and took Tripoli, a city of Syria, andset the diadem on his own head. He also gathered certainmercenary soldiers together, and entered into his kingdom, andwas joyfully received by all, who delivered themselves up to him.And when they had taken Antiochus the king, and Lysias, theybrought them to him alive; both which were immediately putto death by the command of Demetrius, when Antiochus hadreigned two years, as we have already elsewhere related. Butthere were now many of the wicked Jewish runagates that came