OCR Output 200 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. bewail their children; so shalt thou by thydeath cause thy mother to lament thee also.*Accordingly he gave orders to slay him im­mediately at Gilgal; and then went away tothe city Ramah. CHAP. VIII. OF THE APPOINTMENT OF DAVID TO THE REGAL AUTHORITY,BY THE DIVINE COMMAND, AND IN CONSEQUENCE OF SAUL'STRANSGRESSION. SAUL being sensible of the miserable con­dition he had brought himself into, andthat he had made God to be his enemy, wentup to his royal palace at Gibeah, which namedenotes a hill; and after that day he came nomore into the presence of the prophet. Andwhen Samuel mourned for him, God badehim leave off his concern for him, and to takethe holy oil, and go to Bethlehem, to Jesse,the son of Obed, and to anoint such of hissons as he should shew him, for their futureking. But Samuel said, he was afraid lestSaul, when he came to know of it, should killhim, either by some private method, or evenopenly. But upon God's suggesting to him asafe way of going thither, he came to Beth­lehem. And when they all saluted him, andasked, what was the occasion of his coming?he told them, he came to sacrifice to God.When, therefore, he had prepared the sacri­fice, he called Jesse and his sons to partake.And when he saw his eldest son to be a talland handsome man, he guessed by his come­liness, that he was the person who was to betheir future king. But he was mistaken injudging about God's providence; for whenSamuel enquired of God, whether he shouldanoint this youth, whom he so much admired,and esteemed worthy of the kingdom? Godsaid, "Men do not see as God seeth. Thouindeed hast respect to the fine appearance of this youth, and thence esteemed him worthyof the kingdom; while I propose the kingdomas a reward, not out of the beauty of bodies,but of the virtue of souls; and I enquire afterone that is perfectly comely in that respect;I mean one who is beautiful in piety, right­eousness, fortitude, and obedience; for inthem consists the comeliness of the soul."fWhen God had said this, Samuel desiredJesse to shew him all his sons. So he madefive others of his sons to come to him. Of allwhich, Eliab was the eldest, Aminidab thesecond, Shammah the third, Nathaniel thefourth, the fifth was called Rael, and the sixthAsam. And when the prophet saw that thesewere no way inferior to the eldest in theircountenances, he inquired of God, which ofthem it was whom he chose for their king?and when God said it was none of them, heasked Jesse, whether he had not some othersons besides these? and when he said thathe had one more, named David, but that hewas a shepherd, and took care of the flocks:Samuel bade them call him immediately; forthat till he was come they could not possiblysit down to the feast. Now as soon as hisfather had sent for David, and he was come,he appeared to be of a yellow complexion,of a sharp sight, and a comely person in otherrespecls also. "This is he," said Samuel tohimself, "whom it pleases God to make ourking." So he sat down to the feast; andplaced the youth under him; and Jesse also,with his other sons. After which he took oilin the presence of David, and anointedJ him;and whispered him in the ear, and acquaintedhim, that God chose him to be their king;and exhorted him to be righteous and obe­dient to his commands; for that by this meanshis kingdom would continue for a long time;and that his house should be of great splen­dour, and celebrated in the world; that he * 1 Sam. xv. 33. t 1 Sam. xvi. 7. t Our translation says, that Samuel anointed him in themidst of his brethren, and for this it is pretended, that asthis unction was a solemn act, and the only title whichDavid had to the kingdom, it was necessary to have itdone in the presence of some witnesses, for which pur­pose none were more proper than those of his own family.But it is plain, from his brother Eliab's treating him afterthis, 1 Sam. xvii. 28. that he was not privy to his beinganointed king-elect over God's people; and thereforesince the words will equally bear the sense of from the midst, as well as in the midst of his brethren, it is morereasonable to suppose, that as this was the ceremony ofhis designation to the kingdom only, few or none (excepthis father perhaps) were admitted to it. And there wasthe less reason for witnesses upon this occasion, becauseDavid never laid claim to the crown till after Saul's de­cease, and was then, at two several times, 1st, when hewas made king over the tribe of Judah, and 2d, whenmade king over all the tribes of Israel, anointed publicly.Calmet's and Patrick's Comment, and Howell's History, in(he notes. B.