OCR Output PREFACE. V truth and knowledge, I am not conscious of decay. To anactive mind, indolence is more painful than labour j and thefirst months of my liberty will be occupied and amused inthe excursions of curiosity and taste. By such temptations,I have been sometimes seduced from the rigid duty even ofa pleasing and voluntary task: but my time will now be myown; and in the use or abuse of independence, I shall nolonger fear my own reproaches or those of my friends. I amfairly entitled to a year of jubilee: next summer and the fol­lowing winter will rapidly pass away; and experience onlycan determine whether I shall stiH prefer the freedom andvariety of study to the design and composition of a regularwork, which animates, while it confines, the daily applica­tion of the author. Caprice and accident may influence mychoice; but the dexterity of self-love will contrive to applaudeither active industry, or philosophic repose. Downing-Sthbit,May 1, 1788. P. S. I shall embrace this opportunity of introducing twoverbal remarks, which have not conveniently offered them­selves to my notice. 1. As often as I use the definitions ofbeydnd the Alps, the Rhine, the Danube, 8cc. I generally sup­pose myself at Rome, and afterward at Constantinople;without observing whether this relative geography may agreewith the local, but variable, situation of the reader, or thehistorian. 2. In proper names of foreign, and especially oforiental origin, it should be always our aim to express in ourEnglish version, a faithful copy of the original. But thisrule, which is founded on a just regard to uniformity andtruth, must often be relaxed: and the exceptions will be li-y mited or enlarged by the custom of the language and thetaste of the interpreter. Our alphabets may be often defec­tive: a harsh sound, an uncouth spelling, might offend theear or the eye of our countrymen; and some words, notori­ously corrupt, are fixed, and, as it were, naturalized in thevulgar tongue. The prophet Mohammed can no longer bestripped of the famous, though improper, appellation of Ma­homet: the well-known cities of Aleppo, Damascus, andCairo, would almost be lost in the strange descriptions ofHaleb, Damashk, and Al Cahii a: the titles and offices of the