OCR Output 420 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. towns on the continent were overthrown by the Lom­bards, who beheld with impotent fury a new capital risingfrom the waves. The power of the dukes of Naples wascircumscribed by the bay and the adjacent isles, by thehostile territory of Capua, and by the Roman colony ofAmalphi,1" whose industrious citizens, by the inventionof the mariner's compass, have unveiled the face of theglobe. The three islands of Sardinia, Corsica, and Sicily,still adhered to the empire; and the acquisition of thefarther Calabria removed the land-mark of Autharis fromthe shore of Rhegium to the isthmus of Consentia. InSardinia, the savage mountaineers preserved the libertyand religion of their ancestors; but the husbandmen ofSicily were chained to their rich and cultivated soil. Romewas oppressed by the iron sceptre of the exarchs, and aGreek, perhaps an eunuch, insulted with impunity theruins of the Capitol. But Naples soon acquired the pri­vilege of electing her own dukes;" the independence ofAmalphi was the fruit of commerce: and the voluntaryattachment of Venice was finally ennobled by an equalalliance with the eastern empire. On the map of Italy,the measure of the exarchate occupies a very inadequatespace, but it included an ample proportion of wealth, in­dustry, and population. The most faithful and valuablesubjects escaped from the barbarian yoke; and the ban­ners of Pavia and Verona, of Milan and Padua, were dis­played in their respective quarters by the new inhabitantsTiiektng- of Ravenna. The remainder of Italy was possessed byLomhards, the Lombards; and from Pavia, the royal seat, theirkingdom was extended to the east, the north, and the. west, as far as the confines of the Avars, the Bavarians,and the Franks of Austrasia and Burgundy. In the lan­guage of modern geography, it is now represented by theTerra Firma of the Venetian republic, Tyrol, the Milan­ese, Piedmont, the coast of Genoa, Mantua, Parma, and m See Brencmann, Dissert. 1 made Republics Amalphitana,p. 1—42. ad calceiiiHist. Pandect. Florent. » Gregor. Magn. lib. 3. epist. 23. 25—2?.