OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 849 would feel, and honour would dictate, promoted, on chav. YYYIY this occasion, the interest of the Persian king; and \ his interest was powerfully magnified by the nationaland religious prejudices of the Magi and satraps.In a strain of artful adulation, which assumed thelanguage of freedom, they presumed to censure theexcess of his gratitude and friendship for the Greeks;a nation with whom it was dangerous to concludeeither peace or alliance; whose superstition was de­void of truth and justice, and who must be incapableof any virtue, since they could perpetrate the mostatrocious of crimes, the impious murder of their sove­reign. For the crime of an ambitious centurion,the nation which he oppressed was chastised with thecalamities of war; and the same calamities, at theend of twenty years, were retaliated and redoubledon the heads of the Persians *. The general whohad restored Chosroes to the throne still commandedin the East y and the name of Narses was the for­midable sound with which the Assyrian motherswere accustomed to terrify their infants. It is notimprobable, that a native subject of Persia shouldencourage his master and his friend to deliver andpossess the provinces of Asia. It is still more pro­bable, that Chosroes should animate his troops bythe assurance that the sword which they dreaded themost would remain in its scabbard, or be drawn intheir favour. The hero could not depend on thefaith of a tyrant; and the tyrant was conscious howlittle he deserved the obedience of an hero: Narseswas removed from his military command; he reared * We must now, for some ages, take our leave of contemporary historians, anddescend, if it be a descent, from the affectation of rhetoric to the rude simplicityof chronicles and abridgments. Those of Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 244—279) and Nicephorus (p. 3—16) supply a regular, but imperfect, series of thePersian war; and for any additional facts I quote my special authorities. Theo­phanes, a courtier who became a monk, was bom A. D. 748; Nicephorus, patri­arch of Constantinople, who died A. D. 829, was somewhat younger: Hankiusde Scriptoribus Byzantinis, p. 200—246,