OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 509 inexcusable. The two only other writers whom we know of,whence such Jewish affairs might be supposed to be taken byTacitus, who never appears to have been in Judca himself,are Justus of Tiberias, a Jewish historian, contemporarywith Josephus, and one Antonius Julianus, once mentionedby Minutius Felix in his Octavius, sect. 33, as having writtenon the same subject with Josephus, and both already men­tioned by me on another occasion, Dissert. I. As to Justusof Tiberias, he could not be the historian whence Tacitustook his Jewish affairs, because, as we have seen, in the placejust cited, the principal passage in Tacitus of that nature,concerning Christ, and his sufferings under the emperorTiberius, and by his procurator Pontius Pilate, was not thereas we know from the testimony of Photius, Cod. xxx. Andas to Antonius Julianus, his very name shows him to havebeen not a Jew but a Roman. He is never mentioned byJosephus, and so probably knew no more of the country oraffairs of Judea than Tacitus himself. He was, I suppose,rather an epitomiser of Josephus, and not so early as Tacitus,than an original historian himself before him. Nor could soexact a writer as Tacitus ever take up with such poor andalmost unknown historians as these were, while Josephus'sseven books of the Jewish war were then so common; werein such great reputation at Rome; were attested to, andrecommended by Vespasian and Titus the emperors, by kingAgrippa, and king Archelaus, and Herod, king of Chaleis;and he was there honored with a statue: and these his bookswere reposited at the public library at Rome, as we knowfrom Josephus himself, from Eusebius, and Jerom, while wonever hear of any other history of the Jews that had thenand there any such attestations or recommendations. Somethings, indeed, Tacitus might take from the Roman recordsof this war, I mean from the Commentaries of Vespasian,which are mentioned by Josephus himself, in his own Life,sect. Go, vol. i., and some others from the relations of Romanpeople, where the affairs of Rome were concerned; as alsoother affairs might be remembered by old officers and soldiersthat had been in the Jewish war. Accordingly, I still supposo 43 *