OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 881 nezzar he began to besiege Tyre, and Cyrus the Persian tookthe kingdom on the fourteenth year of Hirom. So that therecords of the Chaldeans and Tyrians agree with our writingsabout this temple ; and the testimonies here produced are anindisputable and undeniable attestation to the antiquity of ournation. And I suppose that what I have already said maybe sufficient to such as are not very contentious. 22. But now it is proper to satisfy the inquiry of thosethat disbelieve the records of barbarians, and think none butGreeks to be worthy of credit, and to produce many of thesevery Greeks who were acquainted with our nation, and to setbefore them such as upon occasion have made mention of usin their own writings. Pythagoras, therefore, of Samos,lived in very ancient times, and was esteemed a person su­perior to all philosophers in wisdom and piety towards God.Now it is plain, that he did not only know our doctrines, but-was in a very great measure a follower and admirer of them.There is not, indeed, extant' any writing that is owned forhis; but many there are who have written his history, ofwhom Hermippus is the most celebrated, who was a personvery inquisitive into all sort of history. Now this Hcrmip-pus, in his first book concerning Pythagoras, speaks thus:—That "Pythagoras, upon the death of one of his associates,whose name was Calliphon, a Crotoniate by birth, affirmedthat this man's soul conversed with him both night and day,and enjoined him not to pass over a place where an ass hadfallen down ; as also, not to drink of such waters as causedthirst again, and to abstain from all sorts of reproaches."After which he adds this : — " This he did and said in imita­tion of the doctrines of the Jews and Thracians, which hetransferred into his own philosophy." For it is very trulyaffirmed of this Pythagoras, that he took a great many of thelaws of the Jews into his own philosophy. Nor was our 1 This is a thing well known by the learned, that we are not secure thatwe hare any genuine writings of Pythagoras ; those Golden Verses, whichare his best remains, being generally supposed to have been written not byhimself, but by some of his scholars only, in agreement with what Josephushere affirms of him.