OCR Output 328 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. cubines, and a troop of thirty guards, he secretly -departed from the capital, followed the banks of theEuphrates, traversed the desert, and halted at thedistance of ten miles from Circesium. About thethird watch of the night, the Roman praefect wasinformed of his approach, and he introduced theroyal stranger to the fortress at the dawn of day.From thence the king of Persia was conducted to themore honourable residence of Hierapolis; and Mau­rice dissembled his pride, and displayed his benevo­lence, at the reception of the letters and ambassadorsof the grandson of Nushirvan. They humbly re­presented the vicissitudes of fortune and the commoninterest of princes, exaggerated the ingratitude of Bah-ram the agent of the evil principle, and urged, withspecious argument, that it was for the advantage of theRomans themselves to support the two monarchieswhich balance the world, the two great luminaries bywhose salutary influence it is vivified and adorned.The anxiety of Chosroes was soon relieved by theassurance, that the emperor had espoused the causeof justice and royalty; but Maurice prudently de­clined the expense and delay of his useless visit toConstantinople. In the name of his generous bene­factor, a rich diadem was presented to the fugitiveprince with an inestimable gift of jewels and gold ; apowerful army was assembled on the frontiers of Syriaand Armenia, under the command of the valiant andfaithful Narses*; and this general, of his own nation,and his own choice, was directed to pass the Tigris,and never to sheath his sword till he had restoredChosroes to the throne of his ancestors. The enter­prise, however splendid, was less arduous than it XXXIX. * In this age there were three warriors of the name of Worses, who have beenoften eonfounded (Pagi, Crltica, tom. ii. p. 640): 1. A Persarmenian, the brotherof Isaac and Armatius, who, after a successful action against Belisarius, deserted from his Persian sovereign, and afterwards served in the Italian war 2. The eunuch who conquered Italy.—3. The restorer of Chosroes, who is celebrated inthe poem of Corippus (1. iii. 220 227).