OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 18.5 invective: and his own party accused him of an imperfectdischarge of his duty, and urged for his imitation, theexample of the Jewish king, who had broken withoutscruple the brazen serpent of the temple. By a secondedict, he proscribed the existence as well as the use ofreligious pictures; the churches of Constantinople andthe provinces were cleansed from idolatry; the imagesof Christ, the Virgin, and the saints, were demolished,or a smooth surface of plaster was spread over the wallsof the edifice. The sect of the Iconoclasts was supportedby the zeal and despotism of six emperors, and the eastand west were involved in anoisy conflict of one hundredand twenty years. It was the design of Leo the Isau-rian to pronounce the condemnation of images, as anarticle of faith, and by the authority of a general council:but the convocation of such an assembly was reservedfor his son Constantine;' and though it is stigmatized bytriumphant bigotry as a meeting of fools and atheists,their own partial and mutilated acts betray many symp-Theirs toms of reason and piety. The debates andnod of decrees of many provincial synods introduc- Constan- A 1 i .i i • , tinopie, ed the summons of the general council which'7o4'met in the suburbs of Constantinople, and wascomposed of the respectable number of three hundredand thirty-eight bishops of Europe and Anatolia; forthe patriarchs of Antioch and Alexandria were theslaves of the caliph, and the Roman pontiff had with­drawn the churches of Italy and the west from thecommunion of the Greeks. This Byzantine synod as­sumed the rank and powers of the seventh generalcouncil; yet even this title was a recognition of the sixpreceding assemblies which had laboriously built thestructure of the Catholic faith. After a serious delibera­ 1 Some flowers of rhetorick are IounJ» trapm/un xai aS«v, and the bishops TOI; /ua-Tjuf fjri>. By Damascenus it is styled oxufo; xai nSfx-ro;. (Opera, torn. 1. p. 623.)Spanheim's Apology for the Synod of Constantinople (p. 171, &c.) is worked upwith troth and ingenuity, from such materials as he could find in the Nicene Acts,(p. 1046, &c.) The witty John of Damascus converts (urinuirouc into ivitmakes them xwxuiwXsut, slaves of their belly, &c. Opera, torn. 1. p. 306.