OCR Output LAT1UM. 137 LATIUM. from those which surrounded them, from the Vol-scians and Aei|uians on the one hand, as well asfrom the Sabines and Etrnscans on the other. Butthe views and traditions recorded by the samewriters concur also in representing them as a mixedpeople, prodaced bj the blending of different races,and not as the pare descendants of one commonstock. The legend most commonly adopted, andwhich gradually became 6rmly established in thepopular belief, was that which represented Latiumas inhabited by a people termed Aborigines, whoreceived, shortly after the Trojan War, a colony orbsnil of emigrant Trojans under their king Aeneas.At the time of the arrival of these strangers theAborigines were governed by a king named Lati­nos, and it was not till after the death of Latiuusled tlie union of the two races under the ruleof Aeneas, that the combined people assumed theDame of Latini. (Liv. i. 1,2; Dionys. i. 45, 60;Strab. v. p. 229; Appian, Rom. i. 1.) But u tra­dition, which has much more the character of arational one, preserved to us on the authority bothof Varro and Cato, represents the population oftatiom. as it existed previous to the Trojan colony,as already of s mixed character, and resulting fromthe anion of a conquering race, who descended fromtie Central Apennines about Beate, with a people"horn they found already established in the plainsof Latium, and who bore the name of Siculi. It isstrange that Varro (according to Dionysius) gavethe name of Aborigines, which must originally havebeen applied or adopted in the sense of Autochthones,» the indigenous inhabitants of the country [Abo-eiubu], to these foreign invaders from the north.Cato apparently used it in the more natural signi­fication as applied to the previously existing popula­tion, tbe same which were called by Dionysius andVarro. Siculi. (Varr. ap. Dionys. i. 9, 10; Cato, ap.Pritcm. v. 12. § 65.) Bat though it is impossibleto retire ihe statement of Varro with regard to the■aw of the invading population, the fact of such anarration having taken place may be fairly ad­mitted as worthy of credit, and is in accordance withlit else that we know of the progress of the popula­tion of Central Italy, and the course of the severalweeessive waves of emigration tliat descended alongtbe central line of the Apennines. [Italia, pp. 84,85.] Ibe authority of Varro is here also confirmed bythe result of modem philological researches. Niebuhr*a the first to point out that the Latin languagefore in itself the traces of a composite character, and«i made up of two distinct elements; the one nearlyresembling the Greek, and therefore probably derivedfrwn a Pelasgic source; the other closely connected*ith the Oscan and Umbrian dialects of CentralItaly. To this he adds the important observation,tk«t the terms connected with war and arms belong»fo*w*t exclusively to the latter class, while those ofipkullunr and domestic life have for the most partft strong resemblance to the corresponding Greek.tow. (Xiebc.hr, voL i. pp. 82, 83; Donaldson, Var-™*iiawt. p. 3.) We may hence fairly infer that theraqueriog people from the north was a race akin tot» <><aa«, Sabines and Umbrians, whom we find ininttnrical times settled in tbe same or adjoining re-P>*& of tbe Apennines: and that the inhabitants ofti» jiaias whom they reduced to subjection, and with»b.*n they became gradually mingled (like the Nor-n*m with the Saxons in England) were a race ofPcfatgtc extraction. This last circumstance is in accordance with the inferences to be drawn fromseveral of the historical traditions or statements trans­mitted to us. Thus Cato represented the Aborigines(whom he appears to have identified with the Siculi)as of Hellenic or Greek extraction (Cato, ap. Dionys.i. 11, 13), by which Roman writers often mean no­thing more than Pelasgic: and the Siculi, where theyreappear in the S. of Italy, are found indissolublyconnected with the Oenotrians, a race whose Pelasgicorigin is well established. [Siculi.] Tbe Latin people may thus be regarded as com­posed of two distinct races, both of them members ofthe great Indo-Teutonic family, but belonging to dif­ferent branches of that family, the one more closelyrelated to the Greek or Pelasgic stock, the other tothat race which, under the various forms of Umbrian,Oscan and Sabellian, constituted the basis of thegreater part of the population of Central Italy.[Italia.] But whatever value may be attached to the his­torical traditions above cited, it is certain that the twoelements of the Latin people had become indissolublyblended before the period when it first appears in his­tory: the Latin nation, as well as the Latin language,is always regarded by Roman writers as one organicwhole. We may safely refuse to admit the existence of athird element, as representing the Trojan settlers, who,according to the tradition commonly adopted by theRomans themselves, formed an integral portion of theLatin nation. The legend of the arrival of Aeneasand the Trojan colony is, in all probability, a merefiction adopted from the Greeks (Schwegler, Rom,Gesch. vol. i. pp. 310—326): though it may havefound some adventitious support from the existenceof usages and religious rites which, being of Pelasgicorigin, recalled those found among the Pelasgic raceson the shores of the Aegean Sea. And it is in ac­cordance with this view that we find traces of similarlegends connected with the worship of Aeneas and thePenates at different points along the coasts of theAegean and Mediterranean seas, all the way from theTroad to Latium. (Dionys. i. 46—55; KlAusen,Aeneas v. die Penatcn, book 3.) The worship ofthe Penates at Lavinium in particular would seem tohave been closely connected with the Cabeiric wor­ship so prevalent among the Pelasgians, and henceprobably that city was selected as the supposed ca­pital of the Trojans on their first settlement in Italy. But though these traditions, as well as the sacredrites which continued to be practised down to a lateperiod of the Roman power, point to Lavinium as theancient metropolis of Latium, which retained its sa­cred character as such long after its political powerhad disappeared, all the earliest traditions representAlba, and not Lavinium, as the chief city of the La­tins when that people first appears in connection withRome. It is possible that Alba was the capital of theconquering Oscan race, as Lavinium had been tli.it,of the conquered Pelasgians, and that there was thussome historical foundation for the legend of the trans­ference of the supreme power from the one to theother: hut no such supposition can claim to rank asmore than a conjecture. On the other hand, we mayfairly admit as historical the fact, that, at the periodof the foundation or first origin of Rome, the Latinpeople constitutor1 a national league, composed of nu­merous independent cities, at the head of which stoodAlba, which exercised a certain supremacy over therest. This vague superiority, arising probably fromits greater actual power, appears to have given rise