OCR Output 420 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. the tax to be collected, although they had so many armieito support, and their military affairs were in so successfula train, that they were like to come to a conclusion, with足out the etl'usion of blood. For the camp which bad beenlost before Veil, was recovered and secured by guards andredoubts.. The tribunes, M. .Kmilius and Caeso Fabius,commanded there. M. Furius led an army against theFalisci, and Cu. Cornelius against the Capeuates, butnot an enemy appeared; however, they carried off aconsiderable booty, and laid waste the country, by burn足ing theiv villages and consuming their corn, without.meddling with their towns, either to assault or besiegethem. Having plundered the lands of the Volsci, they at*tempted to take Anxur by storm, but as its situation washigh, they were disappointed, and began to turn thesiege into a blockade, by surrounding it with a moat andrampart. The province of the Volsci had fallen to Va足lerius Potitus. Whilst these military affairs were in thistrain, an intestine division gave them much more'troublethan all the foreign wars in which they were engaged.As the tribunes would not suffer the tax to be levied, andconsequently no remittances having been made to thecommanders, the soldiers became importunate for theirpay, which almost had diffused the seditious sentimentsthroughout the camp which raged in the city. Whilst the people were in this passion with the fathers,the tribunes of the people represented, that now was thetime for establishing their liberty, and transferring thehonours of the state from such wretches as Sergius andVirginias, to bold and manly Plebeians. However, theywent no farther, than just to ascertain their right, byelecting one of their order, P. Licinius Calvus, to thedignity of military tribune, with consular power: therest were all Patricians, viz. P. Maenius, L. Titinius,P. Mselius, L. Furius Medullinus, and L. PubliusVolscus. The people, as well as the man of their choice, werereally amazed that they had carried so great a point.Licinius had never borne any public office before, onlyhe was an ancient senator, and now a very old man. ftdoes pot appear from what motives he was pitched onto be the first, and the pfoperest person to fill this ho足