OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. "I have seen a vision (cried an artful or fanatic bishopof the east). It is the will of Heaven, O emperor! thatyou should not abandon your holy enterprise for thedeliverance of the African church. The God of battleswill march before your standard, and disperse your ene­mies, who are the enemies of his Son." The emperormight be tempted, and his counsellors were constrained,to give credit to this seasonable revelation: but they de­rived more rational hope from the revolt, which the ad­herents of Hilderic or Athanasius had already excited onthe borders of the Vandal monarchy. Pudentius, anAfrican subject, had privately signified his loyal inten­tions, and a small military aid restored the province ofTripoli to the obedience of the Romans. The govern­ment of Sardinia had been intrusted to Godas, a valiantbarbarian; he suspended the payment of tribute, dis­claimed his allegiance to the usurper, and gave audienceto the emissaries of Justinian, who found him master ofthat fruitful island, at the head of his guards, and proud­ly invested with the ensigns of royalty. The forces ofthe Vandals were diminished by discord and suspicion;the Roman armies were animated by the spirit of Beli-sarius; one of those heroic names which are familiar toevery age and to every nation. The Africanus of new Rome was born, and perhapseducated, among the Thracian peasants,' without any ofthose advantages which had formed the virtues of theelder and the younger Scipio; a noble origin, liberalstudies, and the emulation of a free state. The silence ofa loquacious secretary may be admitted, to prove thatthe youth of Belisarius could not afford any subject ofpraise: he served, most assuredly, with valour and repu­tation, among the private guards of Justinian; andwhen his patron became emperor, the domestic was pro- e 'ilftiAijro &t a tyhia-a^tx: fx nffiuUH*;, % ©gaxwrs Ha.t IXXi/ptw fAsra^u xiirai. (Procop.Vandal, lib. 1.e. 11.) Aleman, (Not. ad Anecdot. p. 5.) an Italian, conld easily re­ject the German vanity of Giphanias and Velserus, who wished to claim the hero;but his Gerniania, a metropolis of Thrace, I cannot find in any civil or ecclesiasticallist of the provinces and cities.