OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 275 from making any long or effectual pursuit; and as chap;the horsemen of the East were trained to dart their X1X,javelins, and shoot their arrows, at full speed, andin every possible direction, the cavalry of Persia wasnever more formidable than in the moment of a rapidand disorderly flight. But the most certain aiid irre­parable loss of the Romans was that of time. Thehardy veterans, accustomed to the cold climate ofGaul and Germany, fainted under the sultry heatof an Assyrian summer; their vigour was exhaustedby the incessant repetition of march and combat;and the progress of the army was suspended by theprecautions of a slow and dangerous retreat, in thepresence of an active enemy. Every day, every hour,as the supply diminished, the value and price of sub­sistence increased in the Roman camp*. Julian,who always contented himself with such food as ahungry soldier would have disdained, distributed, forthe use of the troops, the provisions of the Imperialhousehold, and whatever could be spared from thesumpter-horses of the tribunes and generals. Butthis feeble relief served only to aggravate the senseof the public distress; and the Romans began toentertain the most gloomy apprehensions, that beforethey could reach the frontiers of the empire, theyshould all perish, either by famine, or by the swordof the Barbarians t. While Julian struggled with the almost insuper- Julian isable difficulties of his situation, the silent hours of^nded.the night were still devoted to study and contem­plation. Whenever he closed his eyes in short andinterrupted slumbers, his mind was agitated with * In Mark Antony's retreat, an attic chaenix sold for fifty drachmae, or inother words, a pound of flour for twelve or fourteen shillings: barley,bread wassold for its weight in silver. It is impossible to peruse the interesting narrativeof Plutarch (torn. v. p. 102—116.), without perceiving that Mark Antony andJulian were pursued by the same enemies, and involved in the same distress. f Ammian. xxiv. 8. xxv. 1. Zosimus, 1. iii. p. 184, 185, 186. Libanius,Orat , Parent. c. 134, 135. p, 357, 358, 359. The sophist of Antioch appears.ignorant that the troops were hungry. > T 2