OCR Output 236 ROMAN EMPIRE. informed them that he was only a servant, the constable,or master of the horse of the emperor. The same mis­take, and the same answer, were repeated in the apart­ments of the count palatine, the steward, and the cham­berlain; and their impatience was gradually heightened,till the doors of the presence-chamber were thrown open,and they beheld the genuine monarch, on his throne,enriched with the foreign luxury which he despised,and encircled with the love and reverence of his victo­rious chiefs. A treaty of peace and alliance was con­cluded between the two empires, and the limits of theeast and west were defined by the right of present pos­session. But the Greeks'1 soon forgot this humiliatingequality, or remembered it only to hate the barbariansby whom it was extorted. During the short union ofvirtue and power, they respectfully saluted the augustCharlemagne with the acclamations of basileus, andemperor of the Romans. As soon as these qualitieswere separated in the person of his pious son, the By­zantine letters were inscribed, To the king, or, as hestyles himself, the emperor of the Franks and Lombards.When both power and virtue were extinct, they de­spoiled Lewis II. of his hereditary title, and, with thebarbarous appellation of rex or rega, degraded himamong the crowd of Latin princes. His reply1 is ex­pressive of his weakness: he proves, with some learning,that both in sacred and profane history, the name ofking is synonymous with the Greek word basileus: if,at Constantinople, it were assumed in a more exclusiveand imperial sense, he claims from his ancestors, andfrom the pope, a just participation of the honours of theRoman purple. The same controversy was revived in b Compare, in the original texts collected by Pagi, (torn. 3. A. D, 812. no. 7.A. D. 824. no. 10, &c.) the contrast of Charlemagne and his son: to the former theambassadors of Michael Cwho were indeed disavowed), more suo, id est lingua,Graci, laudes dixerunt, imperatorem eum et BiwiXu appellantes; to the latter,vocato imperatori Franeorvm, &c. 'See the epistle in Paralipoiuena, of the anonymous writer of Salerno, (Script.Ital. torn. t. pars 2. p. 243—254. c. 93—107.) whom Baronius (A. D. 871. no.51—71.) mistook for Erchempert, when he transcribed it in his Annals.