OCR Output «0 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. eth Megabazus, the son of Zopyrus, a Persian noble, againstthem with a numerous army, who, marching by land, foughtwith and defeated the Egyptians and their allies ; then drovethe Grecians out of Memphis ; and at last shut them up inthe isle of Prosopis. Here he kept them blocked up for aa year and six months ; till, having drained the channel, byturning the water into a different course, he stranded all theirships, and rendered the island almost continent. He thenmarched his troops across, and took the place by a land-assault.And thus a war, which had employed the Grecians for sixcontinued years, ended in their destruction. Few only of thenumbers sent thither, by taking the route of Libya, got safeaway to Cyrene ; the far greater part were entirely cut off.Egypt was now again reduced to the obedience of the king:Amyrteus alone held out, who reigned in the fenny parts.The large extent of the fens prevented his reduction; andbesides the Egyptians of the fens are the most remarkable ofall for military valour. Inarus, king of the Libyans, the au­thor of all these commotions in Egypt, was betrayed bytreachery, and fastened to a cross. Beside this, fifty triremesfrom Athens and the rest of the alliance, arriving upon thecoast of Egypt to relieve the former, were come up to Me-dasium, a mouth of the Nile, quite ignorant of their fate.These, some forces assaulted from the land, whilst a squadronof Phoenicians attacked them by sea. Many of the vesselswere by this means destroyed, hut some few had the good for­tune to get away. And thus the great expedition of the Athe­nians and allies into Egypt was brought to a conclusion. But farther, Orestes, son of Echecratidas, king of theThessalians, being driven from Thessaly, persuaded theAthenians to undertake his restoration. The Athenians, inconjunction with the Boeotians and Phocians, now their allies,marched up to Pharsalus of Thessaly. They became mas­ters of the adjacent country, so far as they could be whilst-keeping in a body; for the Thessalian cavalry prevented anydetachments. They took not that city, neither carried any