OCR Output 60 VESPASIAN. [B. III. pedition against these cities, and that for the sake of Agrippa,and in order to bring his cities to reason. So ho sent awayhis son Titus to [the other] Caesarea, that he might bring thearmy that lay there to Scythopolis, which is the largest cityof Decapolis, and in the neighborhood of Tiberias, whither hecame, and where he waited for his son. He then came withthree legions, and pitehed his camp thirty furlongs off Tibe­rias, at a certain station easily seen by the innovators; it isnamed Sennabris. He also sent Valerian, a decurion, withfifty horsemen, to speak peaceably to those that were in thecity, and to exhort them to give him assurances of theirfidelity; for he had heard that the people were desirous ofpeace, but were obliged by some of the seditious part to joinwith them, and so were forced to fight for them. When Vale­rian had marched up to the place, and was near the wall, healighted off his horse, and made those that were with him dothe same, that they might not be thought to come to skirmishwith them ; but before they could come to discourse one withanother, the most potent men among the seditious made asally upon them armed; their leader was one whose namewas Jesus, the son of Saphat, the principal head of a bandof robbers. Now Valerian, neither thinking it safe to fightcontrary to the commands of the general, though he weresecure of a victory, and knowing that it was a very hazardousundertaking for a few to fight with many, for those that wereunprovided to fight those that were ready, and being on otheraccounts surprised at this unexpected onset of the Jews, heran away on foot, as did five of the rest in like manner, andleft their horses behind them; which horses Jesus led awayinto the city, and rejoiced as if they had taken them in battle,and not by treachery. 8. Now the seniors of the people, and such as wore ofprincipal authority among them, fearing what would be theissue of this matter, fled to the camp of the Romans: theythen took their king along with them, and fell down beforeVespasian, to supplicate his favor, and besought him not tooverlook them, nor to impute the madness of a few to th*whole city; to spare a people that have been ever civil and