OCR Output joz NOTES ON THE self, cannot be usurped by corporeal eyes. On this account,too, fables bordering on tragedy represent Homer as deprivedof sight, on account of his accusation of Helen. But fables, inmy opinion, intend to signify by Helen all the beauty subsistingabout generation, for which there is a perpetual battle «f fouls,till the more intellectual, having vanquished the more irrationalforms of life, return to that place from which they originallycame. But, according to some, the period of their circulationabout sensible forms consists of ten thousand years, since a thou­sand years produce one ambit as of one year. For nine yearstherefore, i. e. for nine thousand years, fouls revolve about ge­neration; but in the tenth having vanquished all the barbarictumult, they are said to have returned to their paternal habi­tations." I only add farther, that the English reader who itdesirous of understanding the mystic meaning of the Odyssey,may perhaps find his expectations not entirely disappointed byperusing the notes to my translation of Porphyry on Homer'*Cave of the Nymphs, in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid. Page 236. Sacrifice/ and incantations,~\ He, whose intellectualeye is strong enough to perceive that all things sympathize withall, will be convinced that the magic, cultivated by the ancientphilosophers, is founded on a theory no less sublime than ration­al and true. Such a one will consider, as Plotinus observes, thenature of foul, as every where easy to be attracted, when a propersubject is at hand, which is easily passive to its influence. And,that every thing adapted to imitation is readily passive; and is likea mirror able to seize a certain form, and reflect it to the view. Page 240. Cere) indeed is called Chthenia."] Chthonia meansterrestrial; and Cere* was, we may suppose, thus denominatedfrom her profound union with Vesta, the proper divinity of theearth. "For some (says Proclus on Euclid) call both theEarth and Ceres, Vesta, and they fay that Rhca totally par­ticipates her nature, and that all generative causes arc containedin her essence."