OCR Output 256 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, Book IV. the franchise from a considerable, and that not the worst,portion of the Italians—the whole of the insurgent commu­nities which had again submitted; and not only so, but,instead of restoring in a legal shape the former treatiesannulled by the insurrection, they had at the utmost re­newed them as a matter of favour and rendered them revoc­able at pleasure.* The disability as regarded the right ofvoting gave the deeper offence, that it was—as the comitiawere then constituted—politically absurd and the hypocriticalcare of the government for the unstained purity of the 87. * Licinianus (p. 15) under the year 667 says : dediticiis omnibus [cfJmJtnT»] data; qui pollioiti mult[a] milia miiitum vix XV . . . cohortes miserunt; astatement in which Livy s account (Epit. 80): Italicis popuiis a senatu ciri-tas data est reappears in a somewhat more precise shape. The dediticii wereaccording to Roman state-law those peregrini liberi (Gaius i. 13—15, 25, Ulp.20, 14, 22, 2), who had become subject to the Romans and had not been ad­mitted to alliance. They might retain life, liberty, and property, and mightbe formed into communities with a constitution of their own; the freedmenwho were by legal fiction placed on the same footing with the dediticii (u quidediticiorum numero sunt, only by erroneous usage and rarely by the betterauthors called directly dediticii; Gai. i. 12, Ulp. i. 14, Paul. iv. 12, 6) aswell as the kindred liberti Latini Juniani, were probably diro'AiSe?, nulhuscertae civitatis cives (Ulp. 20,14; comp. Dig. 48, 19, 17, 1); but neither theLatins nor the dediticii themselves were necessarily diro'Aio'e?. The latter never­theless were destitute of rights as respected the Roman state, in so far as by Romanstate-law every deditio was necessarily unconditional (Polyb. xxi. 1; comp. xx.9, 10, xxxvi. 2) and all the privileges expressly or tacitly conceded to themwere conceded only precario and therefore revocable at pleasure (Appian,Hisp. 44); so that the Roman state, whatever it might immediately or after­wards decree regarding its dediticii, could never perpetrate as respected them aviolation of rights. This destitution of rights only ceased on the conclusionof a treaty of alliance (Liv. xxxiv, 57). Accordingly deditio and f&dus appearin constitutional law as contrasted terms excluding each other (Liv. iv. 30, xxviii.34: Cod. Theod. 7, 13, 16 and Gothofr. thereon), and of precisely the samenature is the distinction current among the jurists between the quasidediticiiand the quasiLatini, for the Latins are just the faderati eminently so called(Cic. pro BaVi. 24, 54). - According to the older constitutional law there were, with the exception ofthe not numerous communities that were declared to have forfeited their treatiesin consequence of the Hannibalic war (ii. 332), no Italian dediticii; in the90-89. Plautio-Papirian law of 664—5 the description: qui fcederatis civitatibus ad-scriptifuerunt (Cic. pro Arch. 4, 7) still included in substance all Italians.87. But as the dediticii who received the franchise supplementally in 667 cannot reasonably be understood as embracing merely the Bruttii and Piceotes, wemay assume that all the insurgents, so tar as they had laid down their armsand had not acquired the franchise under the Plautio-Papirian law, weretreated as dediticii, or—which is the same thing—that the treaties cancelled asa matter of course by the insurrection (hence qui faderati fuerunt in the pas­sage of Cicero cited) were not legally renewed to them on their surrender.