OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIgUTTIJiS OF THE JEWS. 361 among foreigners: and it looked as if these calamities that af­flicted his land to a degree plainly incredible, came in order toraise his glory, and to be to his great advantage, for the great­ness of his liberality in these distresses, which he now demonstrat­ed beyond all expectation, did so change the disposition of themultitude towards him, that they were ready to suppose he hadbeen from the beginning not such a one as they had found himto be by experience, but such a one as the care he had taken ofthem in supplying their necessities proved him now to be. 3. About this time it was that he sent five hundred chosenmen out of the guards of his body as auxiliaries to Caesar, whom* jElius Gallus led to the Red Sea, and who were of great serviceto him there. When therefore his affairs were thus improved,and were again in a flourishing condition, he built himself a pa­lace in the upper city, raising the rooms to a very great height,and adorning them with the most costly furniture of gold, andmarble seats and beds, and these were so large, that they couldcontain very many companies of men. These apartments werealso of distinct magnitudes, and had particular names given them,for one apartment was called Caesar's, another Agrippa's. Healso fell in love again, and married another wife, not sufferinghis reason to hinder him from living as he pleased. The occa­sion of thls his marriage was as follows: There was one Simon,a citizen of Jerusalem, the son of one Boethus, a citizen of Alex­andria, and a priest of great note there: this man had a daughter,who was esteemed the most beautiful woman of that time; andwhen the people of Jerusalem began to speak much in her com­mendation, it happened that Herod was much affected withwhat was said of her; and when he saw the damsel, he wassmitten with her beauty, yet did he entirely reject the thoughtsof using his authority to abuse her, as believing, what was thetruth, that by so doing he should be stigmatized for violencemd tyranny, so he thought it best to take the damsel to wife.And while Simon was of a dignity too inferior to be allied tohim, but still too considerable to be despised, he governed hisinclinations after the most prudent manner, by augmenting thedignity of the family, and making them more honourable; so heimmediately deprived Jesus, the son of Phabet, of the high priest­hood, and conferred that dignity on Simon, and so joined in af­finity with him [by marrying his daughter.] 4. When this wedding was over, he built another citadel in * This TfUius Gallus seems to be no other than that ^Jliu» Largus whom Diospeaks of as conducting an expedition that was about this time ;made into ArabiaFelix, according to Petavius, who is here cited by Spanheim. See a full account ofthis expedition in Prid«aux, at the years 23 and 24.