OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL III. but the favourite eunuch still enjoyed the confidence ofJustinian, or the leader of a victorious army awed andrepressed the ingratitude of a timid court. Yet it wasnot by weak and mischievous indulgence that Narsessecured the attachment of his troops. Forgetful of thepast, and regardless of the future, they abused the pre­sent hour of prosperity and peace. The cities of Italyresounded with the noise of drinking and dancing: thespoils of victory were wasted in sensual pleasures; andnothing (says Agathias) remained, unless to exchangetheir shields and helmets for the soft lute and the capa­cious hogshead.'1 In a manly oration, not unworthy ofa Roman censor, the eunuch reproved these disorderlyvices, which sullied their fame and endangered theirsafety. The soldiers blushed and obeyed: discipline wasconfirmed, the fortifications were restored; a duke wasstationed for the defence and military command of eachof the principal citiesand the eye of Narses pervadedthe ample prospect from Calabria to the Alps. The re­mains of the Gothic nation evacuated the country, ormingled with the people: the Franks, instead of re­venging the death of Buccelin, abandoned, without astruggle, their Italian conquests: and the rebelliousSindbal, chief of the Heruli, was subdued, taken, andhung on a lofty gallows by the inflexible justice of theexarch.k The civil state of Italy, after the agitation ofa long tempest, was fixed by a pragmatic faction, whichthe emperor promulgated at the request of the pope.Justinian introduced his own jurisprudence into theschools and tribunals of the west: he ratified the acts of EXiwsto yap ot.uat, auroi* Lira aCeXTEfia; rac aa-mXtt; tu%ov km to- xpavn ajw<f)ogEa)<oivsv kcu Cag€cTW aTrcSw&at. (Agathias, lib. 2. p. 48.) In the first scene of RichardIII. our English poet has beautifully enlarged on this idea, for which, however, hewas not indebted to the Byzantine historian. ... J 'Maffei has proved (Verona Illustrata, p. 1. lib. 10. p. 257—289.) against thecommon opinion, that the dukes of Italy were instituted before iht conquest of theLombards by Narses himself. In the Piaginatic Sanction (no. 23.) Justinian re­strains the judices militare*. k See Paulus Diaconus, lib. 3. c2. p. 776. Mennnder (in Excerpt. Lcgat. p. 135.)mentious some risings in Italy by the Franks, and Theophanes (p. 201) hints at someGothic rebellions. ■' , . , . . .a