OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. these extraordinary concessions, the successful agent ofJustinian hastened his journey to Constantinople; butno sooner had he reached the Alban villa," than he wasrecalled by the anxiety of Theodatus; and the dialoguewhich passed between the king and the ambassador de­serves to be represented in its original simplicity. —Areyou of opinion that the emperor will ratify this treaty?Perfiaps. If he refuses, what consequence will ensue?fVar. Will such a war be just or reasonable? Most as­suredly: every one should act according to his character.What is your meaning? You are a philosopher—Justi­nian is emperor of the Romans: it ivould ill become thedisciple of Plato to shed the blood of thousands in hisprivate quarrel: the successor of Augustus should vindi­cate his rights, and recover by arms the ancient provincesof his empire." This reasoning might not convince,but it was sufficient to alarm and subdue the weaknessof Theodatus; and he soon descended to his last offer,that for the poor equivalent of a pension of 48,00O/.sterling, he would resign the kingdom of the Goths andItalians, and spend the remainder of his days in the in<-nocent pleasures of philosophy and agriculture. Bothtreaties were intrusted to the hands of the ambassador,on the frail security of an oath, not to produce the se­cond till the first had been positively rejected. Theevent may be easily foreseen: Justinian required and ac­cepted the abdication of the Gothic king. His indefa­tigable agent returned from Constantinople to Ravenna,with ample instructions; and a fair epistle, which praisedthe wisdom and generosity of the royal philosopher,granted his pension, with the assurance of such honours,as a subject and a Catholic might enjoy; and wisely re­ferred the final execution of the treaty, to the presenceand authority of Belisarius. But in the interval of sus- ° The ancient Alha was ruined in the first age of Rome. Qn the same spot, or atleast in the neighbourhood, successively arose, 1. The villa of Pompey, &c. '2. Acamp of the praetorian cohorts. 8. The modern episcopal city of Alhanam or Alha-no. (Procop. Goth. lib. 2. c. i. Clover. Hat. Antirj. tum. 8. p. 914.)