OCR Output 174 LIVY. to use every effort to raise the apprehensions of theenemy, so that Scipio might be induced to return home.To Mago they sent not only deputies, but twenty-fiveships of war, six thousand foot, eight hundred horse,seven elephants, and also a large sum of money to hireauxiliaries, whose support might encourage him to ad­vance his army nearer to the city of Rome, and effecta junction with Hannibal. Such were the preparationsand plans at Carthage. Whilst Laelius was employedin carrying off immense booty from the country, whichhe found destitute of arms and protection, Masinissa,roused by the report of the arrival of a Roman fleet,came to him attended by a few horsemen. He com­plained that 'Scipio was dilatory in the business;otherwise before that time he would have brought overhis army into Africa, while the Carthaginians were dis­mayed, and Syphax engaged in wars with his neigh­bors. That the latter was irresolute and undetermined;and that if time were allowed him to settle his own af­fairs as he liked, it would be seen that he had no sin­cere attachment to the Romans.' He desired him to'exhort and stimulate Scipio to activity;' assuring himthat 'he himself, though driven from his kingdom,would join him with no contemptible force, both ofhorse and foot.' He said that ' Lnelius ought not tomake any stay in Africa: that he believed a fleet hadsailed from Carthage, which it would not be very safeto encounter in the absence of Scipio. After this dis­course Masinissa departed; and next day Laelius setsail from Hippo, having his ships laden with spoil; and,returning to Sicily, delivered Masinissa's message toScipio. 5. About the same time, the ships which had beensent from Carthage to Mago arrived on the coast be­tween the country of the Albingannian Ligurians andGenoa, near which place the Carthaginian happened atthat time to lie with his fleet. On receiving ordersfrom the deputies to collect as great a number oftroops as possible, he immediately held a council ofthe Gauls and Ligurians (for there was a vast multi-