OCR Output 172 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to fight their enemies, they came hastilyagainst their own kindred. And he threat­ened them, that, with God's assistance, hewould inflict a punishment upon them, unless.they would grow wiser. But when he couldnot persuade them, he fought with them withthose forces which he sent for out of Gilead;and he made a great slaughter among them;and when they were beaten, he pursued them,and seized on the passages of Jordan with apart of his army, which he had sent be­fore; and slew about forty-two thousand ofthem.* So when Jephtha had ruledt six years, hedied, and was buried in his own country,Sebee, which is a place in the land ofGilead. Ibzan then took the government; being ofthe tribe of Judah, and of the city Bethlehem.He had sixty children, thirty of them sons,and the rest daughters; all of which he leftbehind him; giving the daughters in marriageto husbands, and taking wives for his sons.He did nothing in thej seven years of hisadministration that was worth recording, ordeserving a memorial. So he died an old man,and was buried in his own country. When Ibzan was dead after this manner,neither did Elon, who succeeded him in thegovernment, and kept it ten|| years, do anything remarkable: he was of the tribe ofZebulon. Abdon§ also, the son of Hillel, of the tribeof Ephraim, and born at the city Pyrathon,was ordained their supreme governor afterElon. He is only recorded to have beenhappy in his children; for the public affairswere then so peaceable, and in such security,that neither did he perform any glorious ac­tion. He had forty sons, and by them leftthirty grand-children; and he marched instate with these seventy, who were all skilfulin riding horses, and he left them all aliveafter him. He died an old man, and obtaineda magnificent burial in Pyrathon.** CHAP. VIII. OF THE BIRTH OF SAMPSON, AND THE CALAMITIES HEBROUGHT UPON THE PHILISTINES. AFTER Abdon was dead, the Philistinesovercame the Israelites; and receivedtribute of them fortt forty years. From whichdistress they were delivered after the follow­ing manner: There was one Manoah, a person of suchgreat virtue that he had few men his equalsand without dispute the principal person ofhis country. He had a wife celebrated forher beauty, and excelling her contemporaries.But he had no children; and being uneasy athis want of posterity, he intreated God togive them seed of their own bodies to succeedthem, and with that intent he came constantlyinto theJJ suburbs, together with his wife;which suburbs were in the great plain. Nowhe was fond of his wife to a degree of mad­ness, and on that account was unmeasurablyjealous of her. Now when his wife was oncealone, an apparition was seen by her; it wasan angel of God, and resembled a young man,beautiful and tall; who brought her the goodnews that she should have a son, born byGod's providence, that should be a goodlychild, of great strength; by whom, when hewas grown up to man's estate, the Philistinesshould be afflicted. He exhorted her alsonot to poll his hair, and that he should avoidall kinds of drink, except water; for so hadGod commanded. So the angel, when he haddelivered that message, went his way; hiscoming being by the will of God. Now the woman informed her husband,when he came home, of what the angel hadsaid: who shewed so great an admiration ofthe beauty and stature of the young man thathad appeared to her, that her husband wasastonished, and out of himself for jealousy,and such suspicions as are excited by thatpassion. But she was desirous to have herhusband's unreasonable sorrow taken away. * .111115. x"- 6. t From an. 1201 to 1195 B. C. % From an. 1195 to 1188. || From an. 1188 to 1178. § The number of the years of Abdon's government:which in the other copies are 8, are wanting in all ourpresent copies of Josephus, in the same manner as wasTola's entire government; which I just now observed. Nor is there any room to doubt but this is a bare omissionof the scribes. ** Judg. xii. 15. tt From an. 1178 to 1128. \\ I can discover no reason why Manoah and his wifecame so constantly into these suburbs, to pray for chil­dren, but because there was a synagogue or place of devo­tion in those suburbs.