OCR Output an, J 532.] 67 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ner, and came to the age of maturity, madehis virtue manifest to the Egyptians, andshewed that he was born for the bringingthem down, and raising the Israelites: and theoccasion he laid hold of was this: the Ethio­pians, who are next neighbours to the Egyp­tians, made an incursion into their country,which they seized upon, and carried off theeffects of the Egyptians, who, in their rage,fought against them, and revenged the affrontsthey had received; but being overcome inbattle, some of them were slain, and the restran away in a shameful manner, and by thatmeans saved themselves. Hereupon the Ethi­opians followed after them in the pursuit, andthinking it would be a mark of cowardice ifthey did not subdue all Egypt, they went onto subdue the rest with great vehemence;and when they had tasted the sweets of thecountry, they never left off the prosecutionof the war, and as the nearest parts had notcourage enough at first to fight with them,they proceeded as far as Memphis, and thesea itself, while not one of the cities were ableto oppose them. The Egyptians, under thissad oppression, betook themselves to theiroracles and prophecies; and when God hadgiven them his counsel, to make use of Moses,the Hebrew, and take his assistance, the kingcommanded his daughter to produce him, thathe might be the general of their army;* uponwhich, when she had made him swear hewould do him no harm, she delivered him tothe king, and supposed his assistance wouldbe of great advantage to them. She also re­proached the priest, who although he hadbefore admonished the Egyptians to kill him,was not ashamed now to own their want ofhis help. Moses, at the persuasion both of Thermu-this and the king himself, cheerfully under­took this business: and the sac rod scribes ofboth nations were glad; those of the Egyp­tians, that they should at once overcome their * This history of Moses, as general of the Egyptiansagainst the Ethiopians, is wholly omitted in our bibles; butis thus cited by Irerweus, from Josephus, and that soon-after his own age: "Josephus said that when Moses wasnourished in the king's palace, he was appointed generalof the army against the Ethiopians, and conquered them,irhen he married that king's daughter, because out of heraffection for him, they delivered the city up to him." Seethe fragments of Irenaeus, ap. edit. Grab, page 472. Nor,perhaps, did St. Stephen refer to any thing else, when he voL. I.—No. 6. enemies by his valour, and that by the samepiece of management Moses would be slain:but those of the Hebrews, that they shouldescape from the Egyptians, because Moseewas to be their general. Moses took and led his army before theirenemies were apprised of his attacking them;for he did not march by the river, but byland, where he gave a wonderful demonstra­tion of his sagacity: for when the ground wasdifficult to be passed over, because of themultitude of serpents, which it produces invast numbers, and indeed is singular in someof those productions which other countries donot breed, and yet such as are worse thanothers in power and mischief, and an unusualfierceness of sight, some of which ascend outof the ground unseen, and also fly into the air,and so come upon men at unawares, and dothem a mischief. Moses invented a wonder­ful stratagem to preserve the army safe, andwithout hurt, for he made baskets, like untoarks of sedge, and filled them with ibes,f andcarried them along with them, which animalsare the greatest enemies to serpents imagi­nable, for they fly from them when they comenear them, and as they fly, they are caughtand devoured; but the ibes are tame crea­tures, and only enemies to the serpentine kind.Of these ibes, however, I say no more at pre­sent, since the Greeks are not themselves un­acquainted with this sort of bird. As soon,therefore, as Moses was come to the landwhich was the breeder of these serpents, helet loose these ibes, and by their means re­pelled the serpentine kind, and used them forhis assistants before the army came upon thatground. When he had, therefore, proceededthus on his journey, he came upon the Ethio­pians before they expected him; and, join­ing battle with them, he beat them, and de­prived them of the hopes they had of successagainst the Egyptians, and went on in over­throwing their cities, and indeed made a great said of Moses, before he was sent by God to the Israelites:that he was not only learned in all the wisdom of theEgyptians, but was also mighty in words and in deeds. Actsvii. 82. t Pliny speaks of these -birds called ibes, and says theEgyptians invoked them against the serpents. Hist. Nat.X. 28. Straho speaks of this island, Meroe, and theserivers Astapusaad Aslaborus, XVI. page 771. 786, XVII.page 821. S