OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 439 feats of Licinius had ruined his forces, but they had displayed hiscourage and abilities. His situation was almost desperate, but theefforts of despair are sometimes formidable; and the good fense ofConstantine preferred a great and certain advantage to a third trial ofthe chance of arms. He consented to leave his rival, or, as he again Treaty of ..... . peace. styled Licinius, his friend and brother, in the possession of Thrace, December.Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt; but the provinces of Pannonia, Dal-matia, Dacia, Macedonia, and Greece, were yielded to the westernempire, and the dominions of Constantine extended from the confinesof Caledonia to the extremity of Peloponnesus. It was stipulated by thefame treaty, that three royal youths, the sons of the emperors, shouldbe called to the hopes of the succession. Crispus and the youngerConstantine, were soon afterwards declared Cæsars in the West,while the younger Licinius was invested with the fame dignity in theEast. In this double proportion of honours, the conqueror assertedthe superiority of his arms and power '*. The reconciliation of Constantine and Licinius, though it was General peaceembittered by resentment and jealousy, by the remembrance of re— Constantine.cent injuries, and by the apprehension of future dangers, main- 3*3. 3'S~~tained, however, above eight years, the tranquillity of the Romanworld. Asa very regular series of the imperial laws commencesabout this period, it would not be difficult to transcribe the civil re­gulations which employed the leisure of Constantine. But the mostimportant of his institutions are intimately connected with the newsystem of policy and religion, which was not perfectly cstablisiHed tillthe last and peaceful years of his reign. There are many of hislaws, which, as far as they concern the rights and property of indi­viduals, and the practice of the bar, are more properly referred tothe private than to the public jurisprudence of the empire; and he •published many edicts of so local and temporary a nature, that theywould ill deserve the notice of a general history. Two laws, how­ever, may be selected from the crowd; the one, for its importance, the