OCR Output 512 ROMAN EMPIRE. iron chain was drawn across the stream to impede theascent of a hostile navy. The Romans were assured ofa short respite by the welcome news, that the siege ofGayeta had been raised, and that a part of the enemy,with their sacrilegious plunder, had perished in thewaves. Victory But the storm which had been delayed, soonof ilo'fv. burst upon them with redoubled violence. TheA.D. 849. Aglabite,* who reigned in Africa, had inheritedfrom his fathers, treasure and an army: a fleet of Arabsand Moors, after a short refreshment in the harbours ofSardinia, cast anchor before the mouth of the Tyber, six­teen miles from the city; and their discipline and num­bers appeared to threaten, not a transient inroad, but aserious design of conquest and dominion. But the vigi­lance of Leo had formed an alliance with the vassals ofthe Greek empire, the free and maritime states of Gayeta,Naples, and Amaln; and in the hour of danger, theirgalleys appeared in the port of Ostia, under the com­mand of Caesarius, the son of the Neapolitan duke, anoble and valiant youth, who had already vanquishedthe fleets of the Saracens. With his principal com­panions, Caesarius was invited to the Lateran palace, andthe dexterous pontiff" affected to inquire their errand,and to accept with joy and surprise their providentialsuccour. The city bands, in arms, attended their fatherto Ostia, where he reviewed and blessed his generousdeliverers. They kissed his feet, received the commu­nion with martial devotion, and listened to the prayer ofLeo, that the same God who had supported St. Peter andSt. Paul on the waves of the sea, would strengthen thehands of his champions against the adversaries of hisholy name. After a similar prayer, and with equal re­solution, the Moslems advanced to the attack of the 'De Guignes, Hist. Generate des Huns, torn. 1. p. 363, 364. Cardonne, Hist,de 1'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, sous la Domination des Arabes, torn. 2. p. 34, S3.I observe, and canuot reconcile, the difference of these writers in the successionof the Aplabites.