OCR Output A. D. 20.] 145 OF TACITUS. young man of a free and open disposition, unhack­neyed in the ways of business, could have acted withthat guarded reserve, which marked the veteran inpolitics. IX. Piso crossed the gulf of Dalmatia, and, leavinghis ships at Ancona, went forward to Picenum. Fromthat place he pursued his journey on the Flaminianroad, and on his way met a legion marching fromPannonia to Rome, in order to proceed from thenceto serve in Africa. This incident was variously can­vassed by the people. A criminal, it was said, pre­sumes to join the soldiers on their march, and evenwaylays them at. their quarters, to curry favour withhis military friends. Piso heard of these complaints,and, to avoid suspicion, or because it is the nature ofguilt to be always wavering and irresolute, at Narnihe embarked on the Nar, and, sailing down the Ti­ber, landed on the Field of Mars, near the tomb of theCsesars. This was another causo of popular discon­tent: in open day, amidst a crowd of spectators, heand his wife Plancina made their appearance; theformer surrounded by a tribe of clients, and the latterby a train of female attendants; all with an air of gay-ety, bold, erect, and confident. Piso's house overlook­ed the forum; preparations were made for a sumptu­ous entertainment; the scene was adorned with splen­did decorations: and, from the nature of the situation,nothing could remain a secret. The whole was ex­posed to the public eye. X. On the following day Fulcinius Trio exhibited anaccusation before the consuls. To this proceedingVitellius, Veranius and others, who had attendedGermanicus into Asia, made strong objections; alleg­ing that Trio had not so much as a colour to entitlehim to the conduct of the prosecution. As to them­selves they did. not mean to stand forth as accusers;but they had the last commands of Germanicus, andto the facts within their knowledge intended to ap­pear as witnesses. Trio waved his pretensions, butstill claimed a right to prosecute for former misde­meanors. That liberty was allowed. Applicationwas made to the emperor, that the cause might be Vol. I.—N