OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the room of the prætorian praefect, whom he put to death, Carinussubstituted one of the ministers of his looser pleasures. Another,who possessed the fame, or even a more infamous title to favour, wasinvested with the consulship. A confidential secretary, who had a6*»quired uncommon skill in the art of forgery, delivered the indolentemperor, with his own consent, from the irksome duty of signinghis name. When the emperor Carus undertook the Persian war, he was in­duced, by motives of affection as well as policy, to secure the sot*- tunes of his family, by leaving in the' hands of his eldest son thearmies and provinces of the West. The intelligence which he soonreceived of the conduct of Carinus, filled him with shame and re­gret; nor had he concealed his resolution of satisfying the republicby a severe act of justice, and of adopting, in the place of an un­worthy son, the brave and virtuous Constantius, who at that timewas governor of Dalmatia. But the elevation of Constantius wasfor a while deferred; and as soon as a father's death had releasedCarinus from the controul of fear or decency, he displayed to theRomans the extravagancies of Elagabalus, aggravated by the crueltyof Domitian 8*. The only merit of the administration of Carinus that history He celebrates . ii i r i i • i 'he Roman could record or poetry celebrate, was the uncommon lplendor with games,which, in his own and his brother's name, he exhibited the Romangames of the theatre, the circus, and the amphitheatre. More thantwenty years afterwards, when the courtiers of Diocletian repre­sented to their frugal sovereign the fame and popularity of his mu­nificent predecessor, he acknowledged, that the reign of Carinushad indeed been a reign of pleasure 8\ But this vain prodigality,which the prudence of Diocletian might justly despise, was enjoyedwith surprise and transport by the Roman people. The oldest ofthe citizens, recollecting the spectacles of former days, the trium­phal pomp of Probus or Aurelian, and the secular games of the em­peror