OCR Output S>72 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. capital. The return of the emperor is marked byXXXIX' the modern name of the city of Sherhzour; he for­tunately passed mount Zara, before the snow, whichfell incessantly thirty-four days; and the citizens ofGandzaca, or Tauris, were compelled to entertainhis soldiers and their horses with a hospitable re­ception*.Flight of When the ambition of Chosroes was reduced to Chosroes, a. DJ327. the defence of his hereditary kingdom, the love ofglory, or even the sense of shame, should have urgedhim to meet his rival in the field. In the battle ofNineveh, his courage might have taught the Persiansto vanquish, or he might have fallen with honour bythe lance of a Roman emperor. The successor ofCyrus chose rather, at a secure distance, to expectthe event, to assemble the relics of the defeat, andto retire by measured steps before the march of He-raclius, till he beheld with a sigh the once loved man­sions of Dastagerd. Both his friends and enemieswere persuaded, that it was the intention of Chosroesto bury himself under the ruins of the city and pa­lace: and as both might have been equally adverseto his flight, the monarch of Asia, with Sira, andthree concubines, escaped through a hole in thewall, nine days before the arrival of the Romans.The slow and stately procession in which he showedhimself to the prostrate crowd was changed to arapid and secret journey; and the first evening helodged in the cottage of a peasant, whose humble-door would scarcely give admittance to the greatking. His superstition was subdued by fear; onthe third day, he entered with joy the fortificationsof Ctesiphon; yet he still doubted of his safety tillhe had opposed the river Tigris to the pursuit of the Dec. 29. * In describing this last expedition of Heraclius, the facts, the places, and thedates of Theophanes (p. 265—271) are so accurate and authentic, that he musthive followed the original letters of the emperor, of which the Paschal Chroniclehas preserved (p. 398—402) a very curious specimen.