OCR Output OF THE BOMAN EMPIKE. 187 tions of the soldiers, the people, and the senate. chap.An innumerable multitude pressed around him with XVILeager respect; and were perhaps disappointed, whenthey beheld the small stature, and simple garb of ahero, whose unexperienced youth had vanquished theBarbarians of Germany, and who had now traversed,in a successful career, the whole continent of Europe,from the shores of the Atlantic to those of the Bos-phorus *. A few days afterwards, when the remainsof the deceased emperor were landed in the harbour,the subjects of Julian applauded the real or affectedhumanity of their sovereign. On foot, without hisdiadem, and clothed in a mourning habit, he ac足companied the funeral as far as the church of theHoly Apostles, where the body was deposited: andif these marks of respect may be interpreted as aselfish tribute to the birth and dignity of his Im足perial kinsman, the tears of Julian professed to theworld, that he had forgot the injuries, and remem足bered only the obligations which he had receivedfrom Constantius. As soon as the legions of Aqui-leia were assured of the death of the emperor, theyopened the gates of the city, and, by the sacrifice oftheir guilty leaders, obtained an easy pardon from mi is Be-the prudence or lenity of Julian; who, in the thirty- by^e*18^second year of his age, acquired the undisputed pos-session of the Roman empire f. Philosophy had instructed Julian to compare the His miladvantages of action and retirement; but the eleva- ment, andtion of his birth, and the accidents of his life, never pnTate m'allowed him the freedom of choice. He might per足haps sincerely have preferred the groves of the aca- * In describing the triumph of Julian, Ammianus (xxii. 1, 2.) assumes thelofty tone of an orator or poet; while Libanius (Orat . Parent , c 56. p. 281.)sinks to the grave simplicity of an historian. f The day and year of the birth of Julian are not perfectly ascertained. Theday is probably the sixth of November, and tbe year must be either 331 or 332.TUlamont, Hist. des Empereurs, torn. iv. p. 693. Ducaage, Fam. Byzantin.p. 50. I have preferred the earlier date.