OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. cious excuse, that their ruined walls were incapable ofdefence; the soldiers paid a just equivalent for a plenti­ful market; and curiosity alone interrupted the peacefuloccupations of the husbandman or artificer. Naples,which has swelled to a great and populous capital, longcherished the language and manners of a Grecian colo­ny;' and the choice of Virgil had ennobled this elegantretreat, which attracted the lovers of repose and study;from the noise, the smoke, and the laborious opulence ofRome." As soon as the place was invested by sea andland, Belisarius gave audience to the deputies of the peo­ple, who exhorted him to disregard a conquest unworthyof his arms, to seek the Gothic king in a field of battle,and, after his victory, to claim, as the sovereign of Rome,the allegiance of the dependant cities.—" When I treatwith my enemies (replied the Roman chief,'with ahaughty smile), I am more accustomed to give than toreceive counsel: but I hold in one hand inevitable ruin,and in the other, peace and freedom, such as Sicily nowenjoys." The impatience of delay urged him to grantthe most liberal terms; his honour secured their perform­ance; but Naples was divided into two factions; and theGreek democracy was inflamed by their orators, who,with much spirit and some truth, represented to the mul­titude, that the Goths would punish their defection, andthat Belisarius himself must esteem their loyalty and va­lour. Their deliberations, however, were not perfectlyfree: the city was commanded by eight hundred barba­rians, whose wives and children were detained at Ravennaas the pledge of their fidelity; and even the Jews, whowere rich and numerous, resisted, with desperate enthu-rsiasm, the intolerant laws of Justinian. In a much later 'Nero (says Tacitus, Annal. 15.35.) Neapolim quasi Grascain nrbem delegit. Onehundred and fifty years afterward, in the time ofSeplimiiM Severus, the Hellenism ofthe Neapolitans is praised by Philostralus: yim EMuvsc *« ao-ruxoi, Sti xoi rajcrmvSa; im \oym EXXnnxoi eitri. (loon. lib. 1. p. 763. edit. Olear.) ■ The otinin of Naples is praised by the Roman poets, by Virgil, Horace, SiliusItalicus, andStatius (Cluver. Ital. Ant. lib. 4. p. 1149,1159). Iu an elegant episllc(Sylv. lib. 3. 5. p. 94—98. edit. Markland), Slatius undertakes the difficult task ofdrawing his wife from the pleasures of Rome to that calm retreat.