OCR Output aN. 1487.] 155 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. notice of the intentions of God, which hadbeen so gracious towards them; and toldthem that the Deity would continue theirfriend by nothing else but their piety, andthat it was proper for him, now he was aboutto depart out of this life, to leave such anadmonition to them; and he desired that theywould keep in memory this his exhortationto them. So Joshua, when he had thus discoursed tothem, died; having lived an hundred and tenyears,* forty of which he lived with Moses,in order to learn what might be for his ad­vantage afterwards. He also became theircommander after Moses's deathf for twenty-five years. He was a man that wanted nowisdom nor eloquence to declare his inten­tions to the people; but was eminent on bothaccounts. He was of great courage andmagnanimity in action and in dangers; andvery sagacious in procuring the peace of thepeople, and of great virtue at all proper sea­sons. He was buried in the city of Timnath,of the tribe of Ephraim.J Aboutj| the sametime died Eleazar, the high-priest; leavingthe high-priesthood to his son Phineas. Hismonument also and sepulchre are in the cityGabatha. CHAP. II. OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE ISRAELITES AFTER THE DEATH OFJOSHUA J THEIR TRANSGRESSION OF THE LAWS OF THEIRCOUNTRY J AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THE TRIBE OFBENJAMIN, EXCEPTING ONLY SIX HUNDRED MEN. A FTER the death of Joshua and Eleazar,Phineas prophesied§ that, according to God's will, they should commit the govern­ment to the tribe of Judah, and that ibis tribeshould destroy the race of the Canaanites;for then the people were concerned to learnwhat was the will of God. They also tookto their assistance the tribe of Simeon; butupon this condition, that when those that hadbeen tributary to the tribe of Judah should beslain, they should do the like for the tribe ofSimeon. But the affairs of the Canaanites were atthis time in a nourishing condition; and theyexpected the Israelites with a great army atthe city Bezek; having put the governmentinto the hands of Adonibezek; which namedenotes the lord of Bezek, for Adoni in theHebrew tongue is called Lord. Now theyhoped to have been too hard for the Israel­ites, because Joshua was dead; but when theIsraelites had joined battle with them, I meanthe two tribes before-mentioned, they foughtvaliantly, and slew above ten thousand ofthem, and put the rest to flight; and in the Cursuit they took Adonibezek; who, whenis fingers and toes were cut off by them, said,"Nay, indeed, I was not always to lie con­cealed from God, as I find by what I now en­dure; while I have not been ashamed to dothe same to** seventy-two kings."ff So theycarried him alive as far as Jerusalem; andwhen he was dead they buried him in theearth, and went on still in taking the cities;and, when they had taken the greatest partof them, they besieged Jerusalem; and whenthey had taken the lower city, which was notunder a considerable time, they slew all theinhabitants. But the upper city was not to come to inhabit here." See the note there. Nor is itunworthy our notice what Moses Chorenensis adds, page53, and this upon a diligent examination, viz. that " Oneof those eminent men among the Canaanites came at thesame time into Armenia, and founded the Genthunianfamily or tribe; and that this was confirmed by the man­ners of the same family or tribe, as being like those of theCanaanites." • § By prophesying, when spoken of a high-priest, Jose-phus, both here and frequently elsewhere, means no morethan consulting God by Urim; which the reader is still tobear in mind upon all occasions. And if St. John, whowas contemporary with Josephus, and of the same country,made use of his style, when he says that Caiaphas, beinghigh-priest that year, prophesied that Jesus should die forthat nation, and not for that nation only, but that also heshould gather together in one the children of God, thatwere scattered abroad, xi. 51, 52, he may possibly mean,that this was revealed to the high-priest by an extraordt- Nn * Josh. xxiv. 29.t From An. 1492 to An. 1467. \ This place is, in Judges ii. 9. called Timnath Heres,because of the image of the sun engraven on his sepulchre,in memory of that famous day when the sun stood still tillbe had completed his victory. This is asserted by severalof the Jewish authors, that memorials alluding to particu­lar transactions in the lives of great men were frequentlymade use of to adorn their tombs. Tully has recordedconcerning Archimedes, that a sphere and a cylinder were-put upon his monument. B. || Since not only Procopius and Suidas, but an earlierauthor, Moses Chorenensis, p. 52, 53, and perhaps from.his original author, Mariba Catina, one as old as Alexanderthe Great, sets down the famous inscription at Tangier,concerning the old Canaanites driven out of Palestine byJoshua, take it here in that author's own words: " Weare those exiles that were governors of the Canaanites;but have been driven out by Joshua, the robber; and are VOL I.—NOS. 13 & 14. y