OCR Output POMPEII. 649 POMPEII. n£ a its alfiml front: they were further for-si ictrfvah with square towers, which in somearuumr rtpiiarljr at about 100 yards from each >-. in ndier parts are added much more spar-•Ctt. Then toons seem to hare been subsequentiMtio to the original walls, being of a differentwi km solid (trie of construction. The wallskawlta ire Terr solidly built of large blocks ofnmtisi, in horizontal courses, but presenting con-limif imgukritm of construction: the upperut u mora regularly finished, and consists of pe-•rm. Bat both walls and towers are in manykm pursed with coarser masonry and reticulated«k. ibis showing that they had been frequently•aiml tod at distant intervals of time. Tu from! plan of the city is very regular, and ■ rrolcr part of the streets run in straight lines:I the principal line of street, which runs from the • 4 liercoJiacam to the Forum, is an exception,■f irregular and crooked as welt as very narrow,avb it must undoubtedly have been one of theWlkntghhns of the city, and the line followedU« hirh road from Capua, Neapnlis, and KoineK it i« not exceed 12 or 14 feet in width,lata? the raised trottoirs or footpaths on eachL to that the carriageway could only have ad-le the passage of one vehicle at a time. Somelit lia streets are broader; but few of them»i JO feet in width, and the widest yet found■It about 30. They are uniformly paved witht* :''v.unal blocks of hard lava or basalt, in<axc manner as were the streets of ancients». asd the V~ia Appia, and other great highwaysm part of Italy. The principal street, already■i nt crossed, a little before it reached the*». by a long straight line of street which,hf ly the temple of fortune, led direct to the!« Nola. Id the angle formed by the twot tht public baths or Thermae, and betweenHad the temple of Fortune a short broad streetbet to the Forum, of which it seems to have■d the principal entrance. From the Forum<abrr parallel streets struck off in an easterly!»«. which have been followed till they crossav main line of street that leads from thet Vomrius directly across the city to the gate•at the theatres. This last line crosses theI Brady noticed, leading from the gate of Nola■K, and the two divide the whole city intor*t»ra, though of irregular size. Great partI my (especially the SE. quarter) has not yetIrflsrul. but recent excavations, by following■» «f these main streets, have clearly showntoil plan, and the regularity with which the'streets branched off at intervals in parallel Then ia akw little doubt that the part of thefoiiy excavated is the most important, as itas the Forum, with the public buildings ad*I — it, the theatres, amphitheatre, &c ■ /eras) was situated in the SW. quarter of*>. sad was distant about 400 yards from the•f Herrulaneum. As was commonly the case times, it was surrounded by the principal: 'iiings, and was evidently the centre of«■ sad novement of the city. The extent of • M. however, great; the) actual open space•nv of the porticoes which surrounded it) did■*>d 160 yards in length by 35 in breadth,> aw «f this space was occupied by the templenc>r U ro surrounded on three sides by aaa-Urk portico or colonnade, which appears to have been surmounted by a gallery or upperstory, though no part of this is now preserved. 11would seem that this portico had replaced an olderarcade on the eastern side of the Forum, a portionof which still remains, so that this alteration wnsnot yet completed when the catastrophe took place.At the north end of the Forum, and projecting outinto the open area, are the remains of an edificewhich must have been mnch the most magnificentof any in the city. It is commonly known, withat least a plausible foundation, as the temple ofJupiter; others dispute its being a temple at all,and have called it the Senaculum, or place of meet­ing of the local senate. It was raised on a podiumor base of considerable elevation, and had a porticoof six Corinthian columns in front, which, accordingto Sir W. Cell, are nearly as large as those in theportico of St. Paul's. From the state in which itwas found it seems certain that this edifice (incommon with most of the public buildings at Pom­peii) had been overthrown by the earthquake of 63,or, at least, so much damaged that it was necessaryto restore, and in great part rebuild it. and that thisprocess was still incomplete at the time of its finaldestruction. At the NE. angle of the Forum, ad­joining the temple of Jupiter, stood an arch whichappears to have been of a triumphal character,though now deprived of all its ornaments: it wasthe principal entrance to the F'orum, and the onlyone by which it was accessible to carriages of anydescription. On the E. side of the Forum werefour edifices, all unquestionably of a public cha­racter, though we are much in doubt as to theirobjects and destination. The first (towards the N.)is generally known as the Pantheon, from its havingcontained an altar in the centre, with twelve pe­destals placed in a circle round it, which are sup­posed to have supported statues of the twelve chiefgods. But no traces have been found of these, andthe general plan and arrangement of the buildingare wholly unlike those of an ordinary temple. Amore plausible conjecture is, that it was consecratedto Augustus, and contained a small temple oraedicula in honour of that emperor, while the courtand surrounding edifices were appropriated to theservice of his priests, the Augustales, who are men­tioned in many inscriptions as existing at Pompeii.Next to this building is one which is commonlyregarded as the Curia or Senaculum; it had aportico of fluted columns of white marble, whichranged with those of the general portico that sur­rounded the Forum. South of this again is a build­ing which was certainly a temple, though it isimpossible now to say to what divinity it wasconsecrated; it is commonly called the Temple ofMercury, and is of small size and very irregularform. Between this and the street known as theStreet of the Silversmiths, which issued from theForum near its SE. angle, was a large buildingwhich, as we learn from an inscription still existing,was erected by a female priestess named Eumacbia.It consists of a large and Bpacious area (about 130feet by 65) surrounded by a colonnade, and havinga raised platform at the end with a semicircularrecess similar to that usually found in a Basilica.But though in this case the founder of the edificeis known, its purpose is still completely obscure.It is commonly called the Chalcidicum, but it is pro­bable that that term (which is found in the in­scription above noticed) designates only a part ofthe edifice, not the whole building.