OCR Output 294 ROMAN EMPIRE. successively ascended the seven heavens, and receivedand repaid the salutations of the patriarchs, the prophets,and the angels, in their respective mansions. Beyondthe seventh heaven, Mahomet alone was permitted toproceed: he passed the veil of unity, approached withintwo bow-shots of the throne, and felt a cold that piercedhim to the heart, when his shoulder was touched by thehand of God. After this familiar, though importantconversation, he again descended to Jerusalem, remount­ed the borak, returned to Mecca, and performed in thetenth part of a night the journey of many thousandyears/ According to another legend, the apostle con­founded in a national assembly the malicious challengeof the Koreish. His resistless word split asunder theorb of the moon: the obedient planet stooped from herstation in the sky, accomplished the seven revolutionsround the Caaba, saluted Mahomet in the Arabiantongue, and suddenly contracting her dimensions, en­tered at the collar, and issued forth through the sleeve,of his shirt.'' The vulgar are amused with these mar­vellous tales; but the gravest of the Mussulman doctorsimitate the modesty of their master, and indulge a lati­tude of faith or interpretation.11 They might speciouslyallege, that in preaching the religion, it was needless to 'The nocturnal journey is circumstantially related by Abolfeda, (in Vit. Mnhom-m<,d. c. 19. p. 33.) who wishes to think it a vision; by Prideaux, (p. 1. 40.) whoaggravates the absurdities; and by Gagnier, (torn. 1. p. 252—343.) who declares,from the zealous Ali Jannabi, that to deny this journey, is to dishelieve the Koran.Yet the Koran, without naming either heaven, or Jerusalem, or Mecca, has onlydropped a mysterious hint: Laus illi qui transtulit servum suum ab oratorio Haramad oratorinm remotissimurn. (Koran, c. 17. 5.1. in Maracci, torn. 2. p. 407. forSale's version is more licentious.) A slender basis for the aerial structure of tra­dition. t In the prophetic style, which uses the present or past for t he future, Mahomethad said,—Appropinquavit horaet scissaest luna. (Koran, c. 54.5.1. in Maracci,torn. S. p. 688.) This figure of rhetoric has been converted into a fact, which issaid to be attested by the most respectable eye-witnesses. (Maracci, torn. 2.p. 690.) The festival is .still celebrated by the Persians; (Chardin, torn, i, p. 2 01.)and the legend is tediously spun out by Gaguier, (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 183—234.) on the faith, as it should seem, of the credulous Al Jannabi. Yet a Ma­hometan doctor has arraigned the credit of the principal witness; (apud Focock,Specimen, p. 187.) the best interpreters are content with the simple sense of theKoran; (Al Beidawi, apud Holtinger, Hist. Orient, lib. t. p. 302.) and the silenceof Abulfeda is worthy of a prince and a philosopher. h Abulpharagins, in Specimen. Hist. Arab. p. 17. and his scepticism is justifiedin the.notes of Pocock, p. 190—19.1. from the purest authorities.