OCR Output 106 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. the existing government. Carbo in particular, one of the most distinguished men of his time in oratorical talent, had 131. as tribune of the people in 623 given no small trouble to the senate, had carried voting by ballot in the burgess- \ assemblies so far as it had not been introduced already (P. 73), and had even made the significant proposal toleave the tribunes of the people free to reappear as candi­dates for the same office in the year immediately following,and thus legally to remove the obstacle by which TiberiusGracchus had first' been thwarted. The scheme had beenat that time frustrated by the resistance of Scipio; someyears later, apparently after his death, the law passed. Theprincipal object of the party, however, was to revive the actionof the allotment-commission which had been practicallysuspended; the leaders seriously talked of removing theobstacles which the Italian allies interposed to the schemeby conferring on them the rights of citizenship, and theagitation assumed mainly that direction. In order to meet126. it, the senate in 628 got the tribune of the people MarcusJunius Pennus to propose the dismissal of all non-bur­gesses from the capital, and in spite of the resistance of thedemocrats, particularly of Gaius Gracchus, and of the fer­ment occasioned by this odious measure in the Latin communities, the proposal was carried. Marcus Fulvius Flaccus125. retorted in the following year (629) as consul with the pro­posal, that every ally should be allowed to ask for Romancitizenship and to get a vote of the comitia on his request.But he stood almost alone. Carbo had meanwhile changedhis colours and was now a zealous aristocrat; Gaius Grac­chus was absent as quaestor in Sardinia. The project wasfrustrated by the resistance not of the senate merely, but alsoof the burgesses, who were but little inclined to extendtheir privileges to a still wider circle. Flaccus left Rome toundertake the supreme command against the Celts; by hisTransalpine conquests he prepared the way for the greatschemes c>f the democracy, while he at the same time with­drew out of the difficulty of having to bear arms againstthe allies instigated by himself.Destruction Fregellae, situated on the borders of Latium and Cam-of Fregellae. pania at the principal passage of the Liris in the midst of alarge and fertile territory, at that time perhaps the secondcity of Italy and in the discussions with Rome the usualmouthpiece of all the Latin colonies, began war against Rome