OCR Output 330 [BOOK 15 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ^■i w*m on the strength of its walls. But Benhadadsupposed he should take the city, if not byhis engines of war, yet that he should over­come the Samaritans by famine and the wantof necessaries; and brought his army uponthem, and besieged the city. And the plentyof necessaries was brought so low with Jo-ram, that, from the extremity of want, anass's head was sold in Samaria for eightypieces of silver; and the Hebrews bought asextary of dove's dung, instead of salt, forfive pieces of silver. Now Joram was infear lest some persons should betray thecity to the enemy, by reason of the famine,and went every day round the walls and theguards, to see whether any such were con­cealed among them; and by being thus seen,and by taking such care he deprived themof the opportunity of contriving any suchthings. One day upon a certain woman'scrying out, "Have pity on me, my lord;"he thought that she was about to ask forsomewhat to eat; and imprecated God'scurse upon her, saying, he had neitherthreshing-floor, nor wine-press; whence hemight give her any thing at her petition.Upon which she said, she did not desire hisaid in any such thing; nor troubled himabout food: but desired that he would doher justice as to another woman. Andwhen he bade her let him know what shedesired, she said, she had made an agree­ment with another woman, who was herneighbour and her friend; that because thefamine was intolerable, they should kill theirchildren, each of them having a son of herown, and live upon them two days, the oneday upon one son, and the other day uponthe other: "And," said she, "I have killed*my son, the first day, and we lived upon himyesterday; but this other woman will not dothe same thing, but hath broken her agree­ment, and hath concealed her son." Thisstory affected the king so deeply that herent his garment and cried out with a loudvoice; and conceiving great wrath against Elisha the prophet, he resolved to have himslain; because he did not pray to God toprovide them some way of escape out of themiseries with which they were surrounded.Accordingly a messenger was immediatelydespatched to kill the prophet: but Elishawas not unacquainted with the wrath of theking against him. For as he sat in his houseby himself, with none but his disciples abouthim, he told them, that Joram,f who was theson of a murderer, had sent one to take awayhis head. "But," said he, "when he that iscommanded to do this, comes, take care thatyou do not let him come in; but press thedoor against him, and hold him fast there: forthe king himself will follow him, and come tome, having altered his mind." Accordinglythey did as they were bidden, when he thatwas sent by the king to kill Elisha came.But Joram repented of his wrath against theprophet; and for fear he that was commandedto kill him should have done it before hecame, he made haste to hinder his slaughter.And when he came, he accused him that hedid not pray to God for his deliverance fromthe miseries the people now lay under, butsaw them so sadly destroyed by them. Here­upon Elisha promised, that the very nextday, at the very same hour in which the kingcame to him, they should have a great plentyof food; and that two Jseahs of barley shouldbe sold in the market for a shekel; and aseah|| of fine flour should be bought for ashekel. This prediction made Joram, andthose that were present, very joyful; for theydid not scruple believing what the prophetsaid, on account of the experience they hadof the truth of his former predictions. Andthe expectation of plenty made the wantthey were in that day, with the uneasinessthat accompanied it, appear a light thing tothem. But the captain of the third band,who was a friend of the king's, and on whosehand the king leaned, said, "Thou talkestof incredible things, O prophet! for as it isimpossible for God to pour down torrents of * This was threatened as a punishment for disobedience,in Levit. xxvi. 29. and Deut. xxvii. 53, 57. t This son of a murderer was Joram, the son of Ahab,which Ahab slew, or permitted his wife Jezebel to slaythe Lord's prophets, and Naboth, 1 Kings xviii. 4. xxi.19. and he is here called by this name, 1 suppose, be­cause he had now also himself sent an officer to murder him. Yet is Josephus's account of Joram's coming tohimself at List, as repenting of his intended cruelty,much more probable than that in our copies, 2 Kings vi.33. which rather implies the contrary. See the placewhich seems to be imperfect in those copies. J About a peck. D Half a peck.