OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 15 composition, might be compared with those of the Athe­nian orators. The death of Theophilus expanded andrealized the hopes of his nephew. The clergy of Alex­andria was divided; the soldiers and their general sup­ported the claims of the archdeacon; but a resistlessmultitude, with voices and with hands, asserted thecause of their favourite ; and, after a period of thirty-nineyears, Cyril was seated on the throne of Athanasius.*His ty- The prize was not unworthy of his am-J&af>'4\3 bition. At a distance from the court, and at—»i5,&c. (he head of an immense capital, the patriarch,as he was now styled, of Alexandria, had graduallyusurped the state and authority of a civil magis­trate. The public and private charities of the citywere managed by his discretion; his voice inflamedor appeased the passions of the multitude; his com­mands were blindly obeyed by his numerous and fana­tic parabolam? familiarized in their daily office withscenes of death; and the prefects of Egypt were awedor provoked by the temporal power of these Christianpontiffs. Ardent in the prosecution of heresy, Cyrilauspiciously opened his reign by oppressing the Nova-tians, the most innocent and harmless of the sectaries.The interdiction of their religious worship appeared inhis eyes a just and meritorious act; and he confiscatedtheir holy vessels, without apprehending the guilt ofsacrilege. The toleration, and even the privileges, ofthe Jews, who had multiplied to the number of fortythousand, were secured by the laws of the Caesars and • See the youth and promotion of Cyril, in Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 7.) and Rcnau-dot. (111,1.' Patriarch. Alexandria, p. 106—108.) The abbfe Renaudot drew hismaterials from the Arabic history of Sererus, bishop of Hermopolis Magna, orAshmunein, in the tenth century, who can never be trusted, unless our assent isextorted by the internal evidence of facts. a The parabolani of Alexandria were a charitable corporation, instituted duringthe plague of Gallienus, to visit the sick and to bury the dead. They graduallyenlarged, abused, and sold, the privileges of their order. Their outrageous conductduring the reign of Cyril provoked the emperor to deprive the patriarch of theirnomination, and restrained their number to five or fix hundred. But these re­straints were transient and ineffectual. See the Theodosian Code, lib. 16. tit. 2.andTillemont, Mern. Eccles.torn. 14. p. 376—278.