OCR Output O F R O M E. 335 bers, and killed, with their javelins, both the men BOOKand horfes. They met no more obftruction from . -^ _jthe cavalry. And now falling on the line of infantry, Y.R. 309.they difpatched an account of their fuccefs to the con- B. c. *+l.fuls, before whom the enemy's line was beginning togive ground. The news gave frefh fpirit to the Ro足mans, to purfue their advantage j while it difmayedthe ^quans, who were already wavering: victorybegan to declare againft them, firft, in the centre,where the charge of the cavalry had difordered theirranks: their left wing next began to give ground tothe conful Quintius: the greateft ftruggle was madeby their right: there, Agrippa, full of the ardour in-fpired by youth and vigour, when he faw every partof the line more fuccelsful than his own, fnatchedibme of the enfigns from the ftandard-bearers, andcarried them forward himfelf: fome of them, he eventhrew into the thick of the enemy; and the dread ofthe difgrace to which this might expofe them, fo ani足mated the foldiers, that they rufhed on againft theenemy. This rendered the victory equally decifivcin every quarter. At this juncture, a meflage wasbrought to him from Quintius, that he had defeatedthe enemy, and was ready to attack their camp; butdid not choofe to break intd it, until he fhould under-ftand that the battle was over on the left wing alfo;and defiring, that if he had completed the difcomhvture of the enemy, he would march up his troops tojoin him, that the whole army might all together takepofieffion of the booty. Agrippa, now victorious,met his victorious colleague with mutual congratu足lations; and, in conjunction with him, advanced tothe enemy's camp; where, meeting very few to op-pofe them, and thefe being inftantly routed, theyforced their way through the fortifications withoutdifficulty; and the troops having here acquired animmenfe booty, befides recovering their own effectswhich had been loft in the plundering of the coun足try, were then led home. I do not find, either that the