OCR Output 432 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. 2. In the mean time, the people of Damascus, when theywere informed of the destruction of the Romans, set about theslaughter of those Jews that were among them; and as they hadthem already cooped up together in the place of public exercises,which they had done out of the suspicion they had of them,they thought they should meet with no difficulty in the attempt;yet did they distrust their own wives, which were almost allof them addicted to the Jewish religion; on which account itwas that their greatest concern was, how they might concealthese things from them; so they came upon the Jews, and cuttheir throats, as being in a narrow place, in number ten thou­sand, and all of them unarmed, and this in one hour's time,without any body to disturb them. 3. But as to those who had pursued after Cestius, when theywere returned back to Jerusalem, they overbore some of thosethat favoured the Romans by violence, and some they persuad­ed [by entreaties] to join with them, and got together in greatnumbers in the temple, and appointed a great many generals forthe war. * Joseph also the son of Gorion, and Ananus the high-priest, were chosen as governors of all affairs within the city,and with a particular charge to repair the walls of the city; forthey did not ordain Eleazar the son of Simon to that office, al­though he had gotten into his possession the prey they had takenfrom the Romans, and the money they had taken from Cestius,together with a great part of the public treasures, because theysaw he was of a tyrannical temper, and that his followers were,in their behaviour, like guards about him. However, the wantthey were in of Eleazar's money, and the subtile tricks used byhim, brought all so about, that the people were circumvented,and submitted themselves to his authority in all public affairs. 4. They also chose other generals for Idumea, Jesus the sonof Sapphias, one of the high-priests, and Eleazar the son ofAnanias, the high-priest; they also enjoined Niger, the thengovernor of f Idumea, who was of a family that belonged toPerea, beyond Jordan, and was thence called the Peraite, that heshould be obedient to those forenamed commanders. Nor did they * From this name of Joseph the son of Gorion, or Gorion the son of Joseph,as B. IV. ch. iii. § 9. Vol. IV. one of the governors of Jerusalem, who was slainat the beginning of the tumults by the zealots, B. IV. ch. vi. § i. the much t»t«cJewish author of an history of that nation takes his title, and vet personates ourtrue Jnsephus, the son of Matthias: but the cheat is too gross to be put upon thelearned world. f We may observe here, that the Idumeans, as having been proselytes of justicesince the days of John Hyrcanus, duriug about 195 years, were now esteemed aspart of a Jewish nation, and here provided of a Jewish commander accordingly,See the note upon Antiq. B. XIII. ch. a'. § I. Vol. II.