OCR Output HQ DECLINE AND PALt- [GHAP. Xhl. a strong gale from the north-east, and finally cast anchorat the promontory of Caput Vada, about five days jour­ney to the south of Carthage.1*Beiiurias If Gelimer had been informed of the approach of the lands on * * . the coast of enemy, he must have delayed the conquest of Sardinia,September, for the immediate defence of his person and kingdom. A detachment of five thousand soldiers, and one hun­dred and twenty galleys, would have joined the remainingforces of the Vandals; and the descendant of Gensericmight have surprised and oppressed a fleet of deep-ladentransports, incapable of action, and of light brigantines,that seemed only qualified for flight. Belisarius had se­cretly trembled when he overheard his soldiers, in thepassage, emboldening each other to confess their appre­hensions: if they were once on shore, they hoped tomaintain the honour of their arms; but if they should beattacked at sea, they did not blush to acknowledge, thatthey wanted courage to contend at the same time withthe winds, the waves, and the barbarians.q The know^ledge of their sentiments decided Belisarius to seize thefirst opportunity of landing them on the coast of Africa,and he prudently rejected, in a council of war, the pro­posal of sailing with the fleet and army into the port ofCarthage. Three months after their departure fromConstantinople, the men and horses, the arms and mili­tary stores, were safely disembarked, and five soldierswere left as a guard on board each of the ships, whichwere disposed in the form of a semicircle. The re­mainder of the troops occupied a camp on the sea-shore,which they fortified, according to ancient discipline, witha ditch and rampart; and the discovery of a source offresh water, while it allayed the thirst, excited the super­stitious confidence of the Romans. The next morning, P The Caput vada of Procopius, (where Jastinian afterward founded a city—deEdific. lib. 6. c. 6.) is the promontory of Ammon in Strabu, the Brachodes of Ptolermy, the Cnpaudia of the moderns, a long narrow slip that runs into the sea. (Shaw'sTravels, p. 111.) i A centurion of Mark Antony expressed, though in a more manly strain, thesame dislike to the sea and to naval comhats. (Plutarch in Antonio, p. 1730. edit.Hen. Stepb.)