OCR Output 42 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. man, and a despiser of the divine worship. And Shalmaneser,the king of Assyria, made an expedition against him, and over­came him, (which must have been because he had not God fa­vourable or assistant to him), and brought him to submission,and ordered him to pay an appointed tribute. Now in thefourth year of the reign of Hoshea, Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz,began to reign in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Abi-jah, a citizen of Jerusalem. His nature was good, and right­eous, and religious; for when he came to the kingdom, hethought that nothing was prior, or more necessary, or moreadvantageous to himself, and to his subjects, than to worshipGod. Accordingly, he called the people together, and thepriests and the Levites, and made a speech to them, and said,"you are not ignorant, how by the sins of my father, who"transgressed that sacred honour which was due to God, you"have had experience of many and great miseries, while you"were corrupted in your mind by him, and were induced to"worship those which he supposed to be gods: I exhort you"therefore, who have learned by sad experience how danger-"ous a thing impiety is, to put that immediately out of your"memory, and to purify yourselves from your former pollu-"tions, and to open the temple to these priests and Levites"who are here convened, and to cleanse it with the accustom-"ed sacrifices, and to recover all to the ancient honour which. " our fathers paid to it; for by this means we may render God"favourable, and he will remit the anger he hath had to us." 2. When the king had said this, the priests opened the temple;and when they had set in order the vessels of God, and cast outwhat was impure, they laid the accustomed sacrifices upon the al­tar. The king also sent to the country that was under him, andcalled the people to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of unleaven­ed bread, for it had been intermitted a long time, on account of thewickedness of the forementioned kings. He also sent to theIsraelites, and exhorted them to leave off their present way ofliving, and return to their ancient practices, and to worshipGod, for that he gave them leave to come to Jerusalem, and tocelebrate, all in one body, the feast of unleavened bread; andthis, he said, was by way of invitation only, and to be doneof their own good-will, and for their own advantage, and notout of obedience to him, because it would make them happy.But the Israelites, upon the coming of the ambassadors, and up­on their laying before them what they had in charge from theirown king, were so far from complying therewith, that theylaughed the ambassadors to scorn, and mocked them as fools:as also they affronted the prophets which gave them the sameexhortations, and foretold what they would suffer if they did notreturn to the worship of God, insomuch that at length they