OCR Output an. 976.] 299 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the aforementioned cities. And when he hadcalled the ten tribes together over whom heruled, he made a speech to the people inthese words: "I suppose, my countrymen,you know that every place hath God in it:nor is there any determinate place in whichhe is: but he every where hears and seesthose that worship him. On which accountI do not think it right for you to go so long ajourney to Jerusalem, which is an enemy'scity, to worship him. It was a man that builtthe temple: I have also made two goldenheifers, dedicated to the same God; and theone I have consecrated in the city Bethel,and the other in Dan; to the end that thoseof you who dwell nearest those cities may goto them and worship God there. And I willordain for you certain priests and Levitesfrom among yourselves; that you may haveno want of the tribe of Levi, or of the sons ofAaron. But let him that is desirous amongyou of being a priest, bring to God a bullockand a ram; which they say* Aaron the firstpriest brought also." When Jeroboam hadsaid this, he deluded the people, and causedthem to revolt from the worship of their fore­fathers, and to transgress their laws. Thiswas the beginning of miseries to the He­brews; and the cause why they were over­come in war by foreigners, and so fell intocaptivity. But we shall relate those thingsin their proper places hereafter. When this feast of tabernacles was justfapproaching, JeroboamJ was desirousto ce­lebrate it himself in Bethel; as did the twotribes in Jerusalem. Accordingly he built an altar before the heifer, and undertook tobe high-priest himself. So he went up to thealtar, with his own priests about him. Butwhen he was going to offer the sacrifices,and the burnt-offerings, in the sight of all thepeople, a prophet,|| whose name was Jadon,was sent by God, and came to him from Je­rusalem; who stood in the midst of the mul­titude, and in the hearing of the king, anddirecting his discourse to the altar, said thus:"God foretells that there shall be a certainman of the family of David, Josiah by name,who shall slay upon thee those false prieststhat shall live at that time, and upon theeshall burn the bones of those deceivers of the Eeople, those impostors and wicked wretchestowever, that this people may believe thesethings shall come to pass, I foretell a sign tothem, that shall also be fulfilled. This altarshall be broken to pieces immediately; andall the fat of the sacrifices that is upon itshall be poured upon the ground." Whenthe prophet had said this, Jeroboam, in apassion, stretched out his hand, and badethem lay hold of him. But that hand whichhe stretched out was enfeebled, and he wasnot able to pull it in again to him: for it wasbecome withered, and hung down as if itwere dead. The altar also was broken topieces, and all that was upon it was pouredout: as the prophet had foretold shouldcome to pass. So the king understood thathe was a man of veracity, and had a divineforeknowledge; and intreated him to prayunto God, that he would restore his righthand. Accordingly the prophet did pray to Daphnn, as Josephus elsewhere informs us: Of the War,IV. 1. See the note there. * Lev. viii. 14, 22. t An. 975. J As the Jews had their feast of tabernacles on the fif­teenth day of the seventh month, so Jeroboam had a feaston the fifteenth day of the eighth month, which he insti­tuted of his own accord. Some suppose, indeed, that asthis feast was appointed by God to be observed after thegathering in of the fruits, which might be sooner ripe inJerusalem, than in the northern parts of the country, soJeroboam might pretend, that the eighth would be a bet­ter time for it than the seventh, because then they wouldevery where be gathered. Others imagine, that he mighthave this farther design in the alteration of this month,viz. that the people of Judah, when their own feast wasover a month before at Jerusalem, might have an oppor­tunity to come to his, if their curiosity led them. Butthe plain cast is, that he did every thing he could in oppo­sition to the established religion, and his chief intention voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26. was to alienate the people from Jerusalem. Bedford'sScripture Chronology lib. VI. c. 2. B. || Who this prophet was, commentators are not agreed.The Jews would generally have it to have been Iddo; butunless we may suppose that what is here related fell outin the latter end of Jeroboam's reign, Iddo could not bethe person; because Iddo was alive in the days of Abijah,son of Rehoboam, whereas the prophet here spoken ofdied, in a manner, as soon as he had delivered this pro­phecy. Others therefore have thought, that this prophetwho came to rebuke Jeroboam was Ahijah, the same whohad foretold him of his exaltation to the crown of Israel.But besides that Ahijah was alive after the time that thisprophet was slain, Ahijah was certainly a native of Shilohand lived in Shiloh, which is the tribe of Ephraim, anapart of Jeroboam's dominions: whereas it is expresslysaid of this prophet, that he came from Judah. So thatthere is no foundation, so much as for a conjecture, whatthe name of this man of God was. Patrick's and Calmet'iCommentaries. B. 3H