OCR Output 24 ROMAN EMPIRE. nounced the opening of the synod sixteen days after thefestival of Pentecost. Nestorius, who depended on thenear approach of his eastern friends, persisted, like hispredecessor Chrysostom, to disclaim the jurisdiction,and to disobey the summons, of his enemies: they has­tened his trial, and his accuser presided in the seat ofjudgment. Sixty-eight bishops, twenty-two of metro­politan rank, defended his cause by a modest and tem­perate protest; they were excluded from the counselsof their brethren. Candidian, in the emperor's name,requested a delay of four days; the profane magistratewas driven with outrage and insult from the assemblyCondem- of the saints. The whole of this momentousNestorius transaction was crowded into the compass of aJune 22. summer's day; the bishops delivered their sepa­rate opinions; but the uniformity of style reveals theinfluence or the hand of a master, who has been ac­cused of corrupting the public evidence of their actsand subscriptions.* Without a dissenting voice, theyrecognised in the epistles of Cyril, the Nicene creedand the doctrine of the fathers: but the partial -extractsfrom the letters and homilies of Nestorius were in­terrupted by curses and anathemas; and the hereticwas degraded from his episcopal and ecclesiasticaldignity. The sentence, maliciously inscribed to thenew Judas, was affixed and proclaimed in the streetsof Ephesus: the weary prelates, as they issued from thechurch of the mother of God, were saluted as her cham­pions; and her victory was celebrated by the illumi­nations, the songs, and the tumult of the night. On the fifth day, the triumph was clouded Opposition i o i of the by the arrival and indignation of the easternjunta?! bishops. In a chamber of the inn, before he&c" had wiped the dust from his shoes, John ofAntioch gave audience to Candidian the imperial mi­ fja xara, TO >f» to. tv E$t7u rvmfoncu ;-:;<., B/XUT-"- mmofyi? Ji *iu tma6tr/ju> xaivDTo/uia KufiXXou nyja^mtt. Evagrius, lib. 1.e. 7. The same imputationwas urged by count Iraasus; (torn. 3. p. 1 249.) and the orthodox critics do notfind it an easy task to defend the purity of the Greek or Latin copies of the Acts.