OCR Output CHAP. LII. 525 and respectful demeanour, the happiness of their subjectsand the security of their frontier. They were supplantedby one of those adventurers so frequent in the annals ofthe east, who left his trade of a brazier (from whence theThe Sof- name of Soffarides) for the profession of a robber^"P"' In a nocturnal visit to the treasure of the prince8?2—90?. of Sistan, Jacob, the son of Leith, stumbled overa lump of salt, which he unwarily tasted with his tongue.Salt, among the orientals, is the symbol of hospitality,and the pious robber immediately retired without spoilor damage. The discovery of this honourable behaviourrecommended Jacob to pardon and trust; he led anarmy at first for his benefactor, at last for himself, sub­dued Persia, and threatened the residence of the Abbas-sides. On his march towards Bagdad, the conquerorwas arrested by a fever. He gave audience in bed to theambassador of the caliph; and beside him on a tablewere exposed a naked scimitar, a crust of brown bread,and a bunch of onions. If I die (said he), your masteris delivered from his fears. If I live, this must deter­mine between us. If lam vanquished, lean return with­out reluctance to the homely fare of my youth. Fromthe height where he stood, the descent would not havebeen so soft or harmless: a timely death secured his ownrepose and that of the caliph, who paid with the mostlavish concessions the retreat of his brother Amrou tothe palaces of Shiraz and Ispahan. The Abbassideswere too feeble to contend, too proud to forgive: they.l^ Sa. invited the powerful dynasty of the Samanides,mamdes, wno passed the Oxus with ten thousand horse,ar*—999 so poor, that their stirrups were of wood; so bravethat they vanquished the Soffarian army, eight timesmore numerous than their own. The captive Amrou wassent in chains, a grateful offspring to the court of Bagdad,and as the victor was content with the inheritance ofTransoxiania and Chorasan, the realms of Persia returnedfor awhile to the allegiance of the caliphs. The pro-