OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTKLUITIES OF THE JEWS. 141 on account of the dignity of their families, and that accruing tothe'tn by their marriages ; for Marcus Minutianus was illustri­ous, both by his own nobility, and by his having married Julia,the sister of Caius, who accordingly was very ready to claimthe government, although the consuls discouraged him, and madeone delay after another in proposing it: that Minucianus also,who was one of Caius's murderers, restrained Valerius of Asiafrom thinking of such things ; and a prodigious slaughter therehad been, if leave had been given to these men to set up forthemselves, and oppose Claudius. There were also a consider­able number of gladiators besides, and of those soldiers whokept watch by night in the city, and rowers of ships, who allran into the camp ; insomuch, that of those who put in for thegovernment, some left off their pretensions in order to spare thecity, and others out of fear for their own persons. 4. But as soon as ever it was day, Cherea, and those thatwere with him, came into the senate, and attempted to makespeeches to the soldiers. However, the multitude of those sol­diers, when they saw that they were making signals for silencewith their hands, and were ready to begin to speak to them, grewtumultuous, and would not let them speak at all, because theywere all zealous to be under a monarchy; and they demanded ofthe senate one for their rulers, as not enduring any longer delays:but the senate hesitated about either their own governing, orhow they should themselves be governed, while the soldierswould not admit them to govern, and the murderers of Caiuswould not permit the soldiers to dictate to them. When theywere in these circumstances, Cherea was not able to contain theanger he had, and promised, that if they desired an emperor,he would give them one, if any one would bring him the watch­word from Eutychus. Now, this Eutychus was charioteer ofthe green-band faction, styled Prasirie, and a great friend ofCaius, who used to harass the soldiery with building stables forthe horses, and spent his time in ignominious labours, which oc­casioned Cherea to reproach them with him, and to abuse themwith much other scurrilous language ; and told them, " he would'' bring them the head of Claudius ; and that it was an amazing" thing, that after their former madness, they should commit" their government to a fool." Yet were not they moved withhis words, but drew their swords, and took up their ensigns, andwent to Claudius, to join in taking the oath of fidelity to him.So the senate were left without any body to defend them, andthe very consuls differed nothing from private persons. Theyalso under consternation aad sorrow, men not knowing what would