OCR Output 368 {book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. coming upon the people: which when heheard he sent accounts of them unto Jeru­salem. But Zedekiah did not believe theirprophecies, for the following reason. It hap­pened that the two prophets agreed withone another in what they said as to all otherthings; that the city should be taken, andZedekiah himself should be taken captive.But Ezekiel disagreed with him, and said,that Zedekiah should not see Babylon: whileJeremiah said, that the king of Babylonshould carry him away thither in bonds.*And because they did not both say the samething as to this circumstance, he disbelievedwhat they both appeared to agree in; andcondemned them as not speaking truththerein; although all the things predicteddid come to pass according to their prophe­cies; as we shall shew upon a fitter oppor­tunity. Now when Zedekiah had preserved hisleague with the Babylonians for eight years,fhe broke it, and revolted to the Egyptians;in hopes, by their assistance, of overcomingthe Babylonians. When the king of Babylonknew this, he made war against him, laid hiscountry waste, and took his fortified towns;and came to the city Jerusalem itself to be­siege it. But when the king of Egypt heardwhat circumstances Zedekiah, his ally, wasin, he took a great army with him, and cameinto Judea; as if he would raise the siege.Upon which the king of Babylon departedfrom Jerusalem, and met the Egyptians; andjoined battle with them, and defeated them:and when he had put them to flight, he pur­sued them, and drove them out of all Syria.Now as soon as the king of Babylon was de­parted from Jerusalem, the false prophetsdeceived Zedekiah, and said, that the kingof Babylon would not make any more war Zedekiah. The chief business of this embassy was to re­quest of Nebuchadnezzar, a restitution of the sacred ves­sels of the temple which he had taken away, when hecarried Jehoiachin captive into Babylon. Our translation,however, is not at all significant in this place, when itstyles this Seraiah a quiet prince. The Septuagint hasvery properly rendered the words ap^uv Supuv (theprince of the presents,) which some apply to the pre­sents which king Zedekiah made to the temple, and othersto the things they daily supplied for sacrifices; but themost natural sense in this place is, that he was chargedwith the presents and tribute which Zedekiah was obligedto send to Nebuchadnezzar; that his business was, topresent them to the empep<»". and imnn that occasion, to against him or his people; nor remove themout of their own country into Babylon; andthat those then in captivity would return, withall those vessels of which the king of Baby­lon had despoiled the temple. But Jeremiahcame among them, and prophesied what con­tradicted those predictions, and what provedto be true: that they did ill, and deluded theking; that the Egyptians would be of noadvantage to them; but that the king ofBabylon would renew the war against Jeru­salem, and besiege it again, and would de­stroy the people by famine, and carry awaythose that remain into captivity; and wouldtake away what they had as spoils, and wouldcarry off those riches that were in the temple.Nay that besides this, he would burn it, andutterly overthrow the city; and that theyshould serve him and his posterity seventyyears. That then the Persians and thfcMedes should put an end to their servitude,and overthrow the Babylonians; and that theJews should be dismissed, and return to theirland, Jrebuild the temple, and restore Jeru­salem. When Jeremiah said this, the greater partbelieved him; but the rulers and those thatwere wicked despised him, as one disorderedin his senses. Now he had resolved to go tohis own country, which was called Anatnoth,and was twenty furlongs distant from Jeru­salem. But as he was going, one of the rulersmet him, and seized upon him, and accused-him falsely; as though he were going as a,deserter to the Babylonians. Jeremiah saidthat he accused him falsely; and added, thathe was only going to his own country. Butthe other would not believe him; but seizedupon him, and led him away and accusedhim to the rulers; under whom he enduredall sorts of torments, and was reserved to be solicit the restoration of the sacred vessels; upon whichaccount, the Vulgate has rendered the words princepsprophetic, the chief person in the embassy, who at thetime of nudience, was to make a speech to the emperorin his prince's name. Calmet's Commentary. B. * See Jeremiah xxxii. 4. and Ezekiel xii. 13. t An. 591. X Josephus says here, that Jeremiah prophesied notonly of the return of the Jews from the Babylonian cap­tivity, and this under the Persians and Medes, as in ourother copies; but of their rebuilding the temple, and eventhe city Jerusalem, which do not appear in our copiesunder his name.