OCR Output LABNUM. LAS. 129 most be looked for between Tdria and Krainburg, inUiyricum. (It. Ant, p. 276; cooip. Aluchar, Nort­on, p. 247.) [L. S.] LAfiNUM (Tordera), a small coast river in theterritory of the Laketani, in Hispania Tarra-conensis, falling into the sea between Iluro andBlinda. (Plin. iiL 3. s. 4.) It has been inferredthat there was a town of the same name on theriver, from Pliny's mention of the Laknkxsks inihe conventus of Caesaraugusta: but it is plainthat the Laeetani belonged to the conventus ofTarraeo. (Ukert, vol. iL pt 1. p. 456, assigns theseUrnenses to the Arevacae.) [P. S.] LARTOLAEAETAE. [Laeetani.]LARYMNA (Adoujiva), the name of two townsia Bocotia, on the river Cephissus, distinguished asI'pper and Lower Larymna, (Strab. ix. pp. 405,■Vi)6.) Strabo relates that the Cephissus emergedfrom its subterranean channel at the Upper Larymna,and joined the sea at the Lower Larymna; and thatL'pper Larymna had belonged to Phocis until it wasMnesed to the Lower or Boeotian Larymna by theRomans. Upper Larymna belonged originally to theOpantian Locris, and Lycophron mentions it as onerf the towns of Ajax OTleos. (Lycopbr. 1146.)Panamas also states, that it was originally Locrian;aad he adds, that it voluntarily joined the Boeotians*i the increase of the power of the Thebans. (Pans.ix. 23. § 7.) This, however, probably did not takep&« in the time of Epamuiondas, as Scylax, wholiTed subsequently, still calls it a Locrian town(p. 23). Ulrichs conjectures that it joined theBwotkn league after Thebes had been rebuilt byCtesander. In b. c. 230, Larymna is described asa Boeotian town (Polyb. xx. 5, where Adpvfivavshould be read instead of AaBptvav); and in thetime of Sulla it is again spoken of as a Boeotianton. We may conclude from the preceding statementstiat the more ancient town was the Locrian La-Tuina. situated at a spot, called Anchoe by Strabo,*kre the Cephissus emerged from its subterraneanchannel. At the distance of a mile and a halflamina had a port upon the coast, which gra­dually r«e into importance, especially from the time'bra Larymna joined the Boeotian League, as itsj>rt then became the most convenient communication*itb the eastern sea for Lebadeia, Chaeroneia, Or-ciMmenos, Copae, and other Boeotian towns. Thep<rt Ujwii was called, from its position, LowerLarrmna, to distinguish it from the Upper city.TLe former may also liave been called more espe­cially the Boeotian Larymna, as it became the sea-F*t of so many Boeotian towns. Upper Larymna,oWffh it had joined the Boeotian League, continuedto U frequently called the Locrian, on account of itsttetent connection with Locris. When the Romans■Bted Upper Larymna to Lower Larymna, the in-k™taots of the foiner place were probably trans-^Tfd to the latter; and Upper Larymna wasUwtfjrth abandoned. This accounts for Pausaniasr>1&w!uiiig lAl\y one Larymna, which must have*^n the Lower city; for if lie had visited UpperLirvmna, be could hardly have failed to mentionuV emissary of the Cephissus at this Bpot. More-**"fTt the ruins at Lower Larymna show that it be-fa-xe » place of mnch more importance than UpperUrrmna. These ruins, which are called Kastri,«* tljw of Delphi, are situated on the shore of the*fy "J Lames, on a level covered with bushes, ten■ana:*! to the left of the mouth of the Cephissus.\oj_ a The circuit of the walls is less than a mile. Theannexed plan of the remains is taken from Leake. cm* PLAN OF LARYMXA. 1. A small port, anciently closed in the manner heredescribed. 2. The town wall, traceable all around. 3. Another wall along the sea, likewise traceable. 4. A mole, in the sea. 5. Various ancient foundations in the tower and acro­polis. ft. A Sorui. 7. Gltifoner6, or Salt Source. 8. An oblong foundation of an ancient building. Leake adds, that the walls, which in one placeare extant to nearly half their height, are of a redsoft stone, very much corroded by the sea air, andin some places are constructed of rough masses.The sorus is high, with comparison to its lengthand breadth, and stands in its original place uponthe rocks: there was an inscription upon it, andsome ornaments of sculpture, which are now quitedefaced. The Glyfonero is a small deep pool ofwater, impregnated with salt, and is considered bythe peasants as sacred water, because it is cathartic.The sea in the bay south of the ruins is very deep;and hence we ought probably to read in Pausanias(ix. 23. § 7), AifiV 5* o<plo:v iariv 4yxttfaWj$,instead of Afj/rn, since there is no land-lake at thisplace. The ruins of Upper Larymna lie at Bazaraki,on the right bank of the Cephissus, at the placewhere it issues from its subterranean channel.(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 287, seq.;Ulrichs, Reisen in Griechenland, p. 229, beq.) LARY'SIUM. [Gythium.] LAS (Aaos, Horn.; Aay, Scyl., Pans., Strab.; An,Steph. B. s. v.: Etk. Aaos), one of the most ancienttowns of Laconia, situated upon the western coastof the Laconian gulf. It is the only town on thecoast mentioned by Scylax (p. 17) between Tue-narus and Gythium. Scylax speaks of its port;but, according to Pausanias, the town itself was dis­tant 10 stadia from the sea, and 40 stadia fromGythium. (Pans, iii. 24. § 6.) In the time ofPausanias the town lay in a hollow between thethree mountains, Asia, Ilium, and Cnaeadiuin; butthe old town stood on the summit of Alt. Asia.The name of Las signified the rock on which itoriginally stood. It is mentioned by Homer (11. ii K