OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .">r discipline, and humbled by recent disasters. As the level plain of Dara refusedall shelter to stratagem and ambush, Belisarius protected his front with a deeptrench, which was prolonged at first in perpendicular, and afterward in parallellines, to cover the wings of cavalry, and advantageously posted to command theflanks and rear of the enemy. When the Roman centre was shaken, their well-timed and rapid charge decided the conflict: the standard of Persia fell; the im­mortals fled; the infantry threw away their bucklers, and eight thousand of the van­quished were left on the field of battle. In the next campaign, Syria was inva­ded on the side of the desert; and Belisarius with twenty thousand men, hastenedfrom Dara to the relief of the province. During the whole summer, the designsof the enemy were baffled by his skilful dispositions: he pressed their retreat, oc­cupied each night their camp of the preceding day, and would have secured abloodless victory, if he could have resisted the impatience of his own troops. Theirvaliant promise was faintly supported in the hour of battle; the right wing was ex­posed by the treacherous or cowardly desertion of the Christian Arabs; the Huns,a veteran band of eight hundred warriors, were oppressed by superior numbers;the flight of the Isaurians was intercepted; but the Roman infantry stood firm onthe left, for Belisarius himself, dismounting from his horse, showed them that in­trepid despair was their only safety. They turned their backs to the Euphrates,and their faces to the enemy; innumerable arrows glanced without effect from,the compact and shelving order of their bucklers; an impenetrable line of pikes,was exposed to the repeated assaults of the Persian cavalry, and, after a resistanceof many hours, the remaining troops were skilfully embarked under the shadowof the night. The Persian commander retired with disorder and disgrace, to an­swer a strict account of the lives of so many soldiers which he had consumed in abarren victory. But the fame of Belisarius was not sullied by a defeat, in whichalone he had saved his army from the consequences of their own rashness: theapproach of peace relieved him from the guard of the eastern frontier, and hisconduct in the sedition of Constantinople amply discharged his obligations to theemperor. When the African war became the topic of popular discourse and se­cret deliberation, each of the Roman generals was apprehensive, rather than am­bitious, of the dangerous honour; but as soon as Justinian had declared his pre­ference of superior merit, their envy was rekindled by the unanimous applausewhich was given to the choice of Belisarius. The temper of the Byzantine courtmay encourage a suspicion, that the hero was darkly assisted by the intrigues ofhis wife, the fair and subtle Antonina, who alternately enjoyed the confidence, andincurred the hatred, of the empress Theodora. The birth of Antonina was igno­ble; £he descended from a family of charioteers; and her chastity has been stainedwith the foulest reproach. Yet she reigned with long and absolute power overthe mind of her illustrious husband: and if Antonina disdained the merit of con­jugal fidelity, she expressed a manly friendship to Belisarius, whom she accom­panied with undaunted resolution in all the hardships and dangers of a militarylife.(l) The preparations for the African war were not unworthy of the last contest be­tween Rome and Carthage. The pride and flower of the army consisted of theguards of Belisarius, who, according to the pernicious indulgence of the times, de­voted themselves by a particular oath of fidelity to the service of their patron.Their strength and stature, for which they had been curiously selected, the good­ness of their horses and armour, and the assiduous practice of all the exercises ofwar, enabled them to act whatever their courage might prompt; and their couragewas exalted by the social honour of their rank, and the personal ambition of favourand fortune. Four hundred of the bravest of the Heruli marched under the bannerof the faithful and active Pharas; their untractable valour was more highly prizedthan the tame submission of the Greeks and Syrians; and of such importance wasit deemed to procure a re-enforcement of six hundred Massageta:, or Huns, thatthey were allured by fraud and deceit to engage in a naval expedition. Fivethousand horse and ten thousand foot were embarked at Constantinople for theconquest of Africa; but the infantry, for the most part levied in Thrace and Isau-ria, yielded to the more prevailing use and reputation of the cavalry; and the Scy­thian bow was the weapon on which the armies of Rome were now reduced toplace their principal dependence. From a laudable desire to assert the dignity ofhis theme, Procopius defends the soldiers of his own time against the morose cri­tics, who confined that respectable name to the heavy-armed warriors of antiquity, ;0 See the birth and character of Antonina, in the Anecdotes, c. 1. and tlie notes of Alemanm, p, 3.