OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 117 legislative, authority—and the courts had been dividedbetween them, now the moneyed aristocracy was not onlyunited into a compact and privileged class on the solid basisof material interests, but also, as a judicial and controllingpower, formed part of the state and took its place almoston a footing of equality by the side of the ruling aristocracy.All the old antipathies of the merchants against the nobilitynecessarily, from this time forth, found only too practical anexpression in the sentences of the jurymen; above all, whenthe provincial governors were called to account, the senatorhad to await a decision involving his civil existence at thehands no longer as formerly of his peers, but of greatmerchants and bankers. The feuds between the Romancapitalists and the Roman governors were transplanted fromthe provincial administration to the dangerous field of theseprocesses of reckoning. Not only was the aristocracy of therich divided, but care was taken that the variance shouldalways find fresh nourishment and easy expression. With his weapons—the proletariate and the mercantile Monarchicalclass—thus prepared Gracchus proceeded to his main work, governmentthe overthrow of the ruling aristocracy. The overthrow of ™Dst1tutedthe senate meant, on the one hand, the depriving it of the jtjj se^ate'substance of its powers by legislative changes; and on theother hand, the ruining of the existing aristocracy by mea­sures of a more personal and transitory kind. Gracchus didboth. The function of administration, in particular, hadhitherto belonged exclusively to the senate; Gracchus tookit away, partly by settling the most important administra­tive questions by means of comitial laws or, in other wordspractically, through tribunician dictation, partly by restrictingthe senate as much as possible in current affairs, partly bytaking business after the most comprehensive fashion intohis own hands. The measures of the former kind have beenmentioned already. The new master of the state withoutconsulting the senate meddled with the state-chest, by im­posing a permanent and oppressive burden on the publicfinances in the distribution of corn; meddled with the do­mains, by sending out colonies not as formerly by decree ofthe senate but by decree of the people; and meddled with theprovincial administration, by overturning through a law of thepeople the financial constitution given by the senate to theprovince of Asia and substituting for it one altogether dif­ferent. One of the most important of the current duties of