OCR Output C. III.] DANGER OF THE JEWS AT ANTIOCU. 303 upon the theatre at a time when the people of Antioch wereassembled together, and became an informer against his father,and accused both him and others that they had resolved toburn the whole city in one night; he also delivered up tothem some Jews that were foreigners, as partners in theirresolutions. When the people heard this, they could notrefrain their passion, but commanded that those who weredelivered up to them should have fire brought to burn them,who were accordingly all burnt upon the theatre immediately.They did also fall violently upon the multitude of the Jews,as supposing that, by punishing them suddenly, they shouldsave their own city. As for Antiochus, he aggravated therage they were in, and thought to give them a demonstrationof his own conversion, and of his hatred of the Jewish customs,by sacrificing after the manner of the Greeks; he persuadedthe rest also to compel them to do the same, because theywould by that means discover who they were that had plottedagainst them, since they would not do so ; and when the peoploof Antioch tried the experiment, some few complied, but thosethat would not do so were slain. As for Antiochus himself,he obtained soldiers from the Roman commander, and becamea severe master over his own citizens, not permitting them torest on the seventh day, but forcing them to do all that theyusually did on other days ; and to that degree of distress didhe reduce them in this matter, that the rest of the seventhday was dissolved not only at Antioch, but the same thingwhich took thence its rise was done in other cities also, in likemanner, for some small time. 4. Now, after these misfortunes had happened to the Jewsat Antioch, a second calamity befell them, the description ofwhich when we were going about, we premised the accountforegoing: for upon this accident, whereby tho four-squaromarket-place was burnt down, as well as the archives, andthe place where the public records were preserved, and thoroyal palaces (and it was not without difficulty that the fire place out of Fuller's Miscellanies. They had the like governor or governorsallowed them at Babylon under their captivity there, as the history of Su­sanna implies.