OCR Output 74 ANTIQUITIES OF THiI JEWS. Book X. the entire mterval of time which passed from the captivity of theIsraelites, to the carrying away of the two tribes, proved to bean hundred and thirty years six months and ten days. CHAR X. Concerning Daniel, and what befell him at Babylon. § 1. DUT new Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took someof the most noble of the Jews that were children and the kins­men of Zedekiah their king, such as were rem arkable for the beau­ty of their bodies, and the comeliness of their countenances, anddelivered them into the hands of tutors, and to the improvementto be made by them. He also made some of them to be eunuchs -which course he took also with those of other nations, whom hehad taken in the flower of their age, and afforded them theirdiet from his own table, and had them instructed in the insti­tutes of the country, and taught the learning of the Chaldeans;and they had now exercised themselves sufficiently in that wis­dom which he had ordered they should apply themselves to.Now among these there were four of the family of Zedekiah, 01most excellent dispositions, one of whom was called Daniel,another was called Ananias, another Mesael, and the fourthAzarias: And the king of Babylon changed their names, and com­manded that they should make use of other names; Daniel hecalled Baltasar, Ananias, Shadrach, Mesael, Meshach, and Aza­rias, Abednego. These the king had in esteem, and continuedto love, because of the very excellent temper they were of, andbecause of their application to learning, and the progress theyhad made in wisdom. 2. Now Daniel and his kinsmen, had resolved to use a severediet, and to abstain from those kinds of food which came fromthe king's table, and entirely to forbear to eat of all living crea­tures: So he came to Ashpenaz, who was that * eunuch towhom the care of them was committed, and desired him to takeand spend what was brought for them from the king, but togive them pulse and dates for their food, and any thing else,besides the flesh of living creatures, that he pleased; for that theirinclinations were to that sort of food, and that they despised the * That Daniel was made one of these eunuchs of which Isaiah prophesied Isa.xxxix. 7. and the three children his companions also, seems to me plain, both herein Josephus, and in our copies of Daniel, Dan. i. 3, 6, 7—11, 18. although it mustbe granted that some married persons, that had children were sometimes calledeunuchs, in a general acceptation for courtiers, on account that so many of the an­cient courtiers were real-.cunuchs. See Gen, zxxix. 1. . -'-•-.