OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 741 srb snd to riot* to one another that they mightnr Ui exhibit the rest of the city as a merei place is considered the mostof all, and has been appro-ml t> the monuments of the most distinguishedand women. The most remarkable of these isrolled the Mausoleum, a vast mound near the'raised upon a lofty base of white stone, andm4 to ha summit with evergreen trees. Ou the ■ a bronae statue of Augustas: whilst nnder theaA are the tombs of himself, his relatives, and aad at the back of it a large grove, affordingatfel promenades. In the middle of the Campusr rarkated space where the body of Augustusbant, also constructed of white stone, sur-dad with an iron rail, and planted in the« r with poplar trees. Then if we proceed toaaritat forum, and survey the numerous ha-r, piwlawwa, and temples which surround it,"»*> the Capitol and its works, as well as those ■ Palatine and in the portico of Livia, we mightbe led to forget all other cities. Such is > ' (». pp. 235. 236). swcrer, of this glowing picture, orfrom the emphasis which it lays onof the Campus Martius, whilst theof the city is stmck oft* with a few light■a. at mar be suspected that in the time ofseas taa ancient part of Home, with the excep-ar the immediate vicinity of the forum andsi, cat ant present a spectacle of any greatjnnre. The narrowness and irregularity of■■wot. taa consequence of the hasty manner ini tiat city wae rebuilt after its destruction bystill continued to disfigure it in the timeictftaa, aa is shown by a passage in Livy (v.uready cited (cf. Tacitus. Aim. xv. 38: " Ob-wrW artia rtinerihns, bucque et illuc flex is,^■«rerit«» vicis, qualis renu Roma fait"—thatlav the fire). This defect was not remedied til]ass Off* ra Use reign of Nero, which forms therkable epoch in the history of the city. lax Cm- tdx tiik Time op Aureuax.• aadar AVro.—There had been a destructive±0 mgn of Tiberius, which burnt down all theaa as that Cadian hill (Tac. Ann. i?. 64); butwith the extensiveThe latter, the most de-r caf tbe kind that had ever happenedajvocally said by Suetonius (Aero,caused hy the wilful act of ther, >rrmo di»gnst at the narrow and windingKara aa reperaented by that hietorian asmi.'car the Barnes with delight from the< Hi ■ < nae on the Esquiline, and as convert--«hjl reality into a sort of dramatic spectacle.Bar aa Use fire raged, in proper scenic attire,»r ;I. r A"> tiic inure judaaanl, uuewth-rr reject the imputation {Am. lv.I 1~mm tar* oatranenced al the lower part ofit adjoins the Caeltantbops containing combustibleit spread through the whole«f tiat carcass to the Forum Boarium, andrtM 0tnmT the whole i'alatine till it was I ^m feat at the Esquiline. It lasted six-oral atfrbta, and its extent may be judged , t~-» taaat est of the fourteen Regions three II hasiT deals u red, and seven very nearly so,•»f» thrae escaped altogether untouched. The three Regions utterly destroyed must have beenthe xith, xth, and ivth, or those called CircusMaximus, I'alatium. and Templum Pacts. Theforum must have suffered considerably, but the Ca­pitol seems to have escaped, as the Capitoline temple,after its first destruction in the time of Sulla,remained entire till bnmt by the Vitellians. Thenarrow and crooked streets, and the irregular Viciof which ancient Rome was composed, rendered itimpossible to arrest the conflagration. Nero was atAntinm when it broke out, and did not return toRome till the flames were threatening his ownpalace, which he had not the power to save. Thiswas the Donuu TramUorh, the domain of which hehad extended from the Palatine to the gardens ofMaecenas on the Esquiline. What chiefly directedsuspicion against Nero, as having wilfully causedthe fire, was the circumstance of its breaking outafresh in the Aemilian property of his minionTigellinns. Much irreparable loss was occasioned hy this fire,such as the destruction of several time-honouredfanes, of many master-pieces of Greek art, besides avast amount of private property. Among the vene­rable temples which perished on this occasion, werethat of Luna, erected by Servius Tullius, the altarand fane of Hercules in the Forum Boarium, thetemple of Jupiter Stntor, founded by Romulus, thoseof Vesta and of the Penates Populi Romani, and theRegia of Numa. Yet, on the other hand, the firemade room for great improvements. Nero causedthe town to be rebuilt on a regular plan, with broadstreets, open spaces, and leas lofty houses. All thebuildings were isolated, and a certain portion of eachwas constructed with Alban or Gahinian stone, so asto be proof against fire; to guard against which aplentiful supply of water was laid on. As a meansof escape and assistance in the same calamity, aswell as for the sake of ornament, Nero also causedporticoes to be built at his own expense along thefronts of the insulae. He supplied the proprietorswith money for building, and specified a certaintime by which the houses were to be completed(Tac. Am. xv. 38—43; Suet. Aero, 38). ThusRome sprung a second time from her ashes, in astyle of far greater splendour than before. The newpalace, or damns aurea, of the emperor himself keptpace with the increased magnificence of the city.Its bounds comprehended large parks and gardens,filled with wild animals, where solitude might befound in the very heart of the city; a vast lake, sur­rounded with large buildings, filled the valley inwhich the Flavian amphitheatre was afterwardserected ; the palace was of such extent as to havetriple porticoes of a thousand feet ; in the vestibulestood a colossal figure of Nero himself, 120 feet inheight; the ceilings were panelled, the chambersgilt, and inlaid with gems and mother-of-pearl; andthe baths flowed both with fresh and sea water.When this magnificent abode was completed, Nerovouchsafed to honour it with his qualified approba­tion, and was heard to observe, " that he was at lastbeginning to lodge like a man." (Suet. Nero, 31;Mart, de Spect. 2.) Change* under mbteqvent Emperon. — Thetwo predecessors of Nero, Caligula and Claudius,did not effect much for the city; and the shortand turbulent reigns of his three successors, Galba,Otho, and Vitellius, were characterised rather bydestruction than improvement. Caligula indeed per­fected some of the designs of Tiberius (Suet, tut 3 ii 3