OCR Output LAURENTUM. 147 LAURENTUM. most important is the occurrence of its name (or thatof the Liurentim at least), together with those ofArdea, Antiura, Circeii, and Tarracina, among theallies or dependants of Rome, in the celebratedtreaty of the Romans with Carthage in b. c. 509.(Pol. iii. 22.) From this document we may inferthat Laurentum was then still a place of some con­sideration as a maritime town, though the proximityof the Roman port and colony of Ostia must havetemied inach to its disadvantage. Dionysius tells usthat some of the Tarquins had retired to Laurentumon their expulsion from Rome: and he subsequentlynctices the Lauren tines among the cities whichcomposed the Latin League in b. c. 496. (Dionys.t. 54, 61.) We learn, also, from an incidental noticein Utv, that they belonged to that confederacy, andretained, in consequence, down to a late period therijht of participating in the sacrifices on the AlbanMount. (Liv. xxxvii. 3.) It is clear, therefore, thatthoagh no longer a powerful or important city,Lauren torn continued to retain its independent posi­tion down to the great Latin War in n. c. 340. Ont;ut occasion the Laurentines are expressly men-tiocted as having been the only people who took no•bare in the war; and, in consequence, the treatywith them which previously existed was renewedwithout alteration. (Liv. viii. 11.) "From thence-f'-rth " (adds Livy) "it is renewed always from yearto year on the 10th day of the Feriae Latinae." Thus,tin" prjor and decayed city of Lturentum continued4-flni to the Augustan age to retain the nominalpfcition of an independent ally of the imperialfeme. Xo further notice of it occurs in history duringthe Human Republic. Lucan appears to reckon it asoce of the places that had fallen into decay in con-•qaence of the Civil Wars (vii. 394). but it isj^-bable that it hadi long before that dwindled into awn small place. The existence of a town of thename(Moppidurn Laurentum") is, however, attestedbyMela,Strabot and Pliny (Mel. ii.4. § 9; Strab. v.p. 232; I'lin. iiL 5. s. 9); and the sea-coast in itsnonitr was adorned with numerous villas, amongwhich that of tlie younger IMiny was conspicuous.(Plin. Ep. ii. 17.) It is remarkable that thatssrhor. in describing the situation of his villa andi'j neichbourtiood, makes no allusion to Laurentumrtwlf. though he mentions the neighbouring colonyrf Ostia, and a village or "vicus" immediatelyirfjwning Tim villa: this last may probably be the»*me which we find called in an inscription " VicusAugustus Laurentium." (Gruter, Inscr. p. 398,So. 7.) Hence, it teems probable that Laurentumiuelf bad fallen into a state of great decay: andths a:ust have been the cause that, shortly after, the!'o ciimmunities of Laurentum and Laviuium weresuited into orte municipal body, which assumed thea?;#lUtion of Lnuro-Lavininm, and the inhabitantsuut fif Lauro-Lavinates, or Laurentes Lavinates.Sw^times, however, the united "populus" calls"two" in inscriptions simply M Senatas pupul usqueU^n." and in one case we find mention of a"CoJ'jnia Augusta Laurentium." (Orell. Inscr.144; Gruter, p. 484, No. 3.) Nevertheless it is at«.< very doubtful whether there was any freshookvy established on the site of the ancient Lau­rentum: the only one mentioned in the Liber Colo-■sanna » that of Lauro-Lavinium, which wastnditiUedly fixed at Lavinium {Prattea). [La-nyicai.'J The existence of a place bearing theUne of Laurentum, though probably a mere village, down to the Litter ages of the Empire, is,however, clearly proved by the Itineraries andTabula (/(tin. Ant. p. 301*; Tab. Petit); and itappears from ecclesiastical documents that the localitystill retained its ancient name as late as the 8thcentury (Anastas. ViL Pontif. ap. Kibby, vol. ii. p.201). From that time all trace of it disappears, andthe site seems to have been entirely forgotten. Laurentum seems to have, from an early period,given name to an extensive territory, extendingfrom the mouth of the Tiber nearly, if not quite, toArdea, and forming a part of the broad littoral tractof Latium, which is distinguished from the rest ofthat country by very marked natural characteristics.[Latium.] Hence, we find the Laurentine territorymuch more frequently referred to than the city itself;and the place where Aeneas is represented as landingis uniformly described as " in agro Laurenti;" thoughwe know from Virgil that he conceived the Trojansas arriving and first establishing themselves at themouth of the Tiber. But it is clear that, previous tothe foundation of Ostia, the territory of Laurentumwas considered to extend to that river. (Serv. adAen. vii. 661, xi. 316.) The name of ** agerLaurens " seems to have continued in common useto be applied, even under the Roman Empire, to thewhole district extending as far as the river Numi-cius, so as to include Larinium as well as Lauren­tum. It was, like the rest of this part of Latiumnear the sea-coast, a sandy tract of no naturalfertility, whence Aeneas is represented as com­plaining that he had arrived "in agrum macer-rinium, littorosis>iiiiumque." (Fab. Max. ap. Serv.ad Aen. i. 3.) In the immediate neighbourhood ofLaurentum were considerable marshes, while thetract a little further inland was covered with wood,funning an extensive forest, known as the SilvaLaurentina. (Jul. Obseq. 24.) The existence of thisat the time of the landing of Aeneas is allnded to by-Virgil {Aen. xi. 133, &c.). Under the RemanEmpire it was a favourite haunt of wild-boars,which grew to a large size, but were considered byepicures to be of inferior flavour on account of themarshy character of the ground in which they fed.(Virg. Aen, x. 709; Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 42; Martial,ix. 495.) Varro also tells us that the orator Hor-tensius had a fann or villa in the Laurentine dis­trict, with a park stocked with wild-boars, deer, andother game. ( Varr. H. H. iii. 13.) The existence ofextensive marshes near Laurentum is noticed alsoby Virgil {Aen. x. 107) as well as by Martial(x. 37. 5), and it is evident that even in ancienttimes they rendered this tract of country unhealthy,though it could not have suffered from malaria to thesame extent as in modern times. The villas which,according to Pliny, lined the shore, were built closeto the sea, and were probably frequented only inwinter. At an earlier period, we are told thatScipio and Laelius used to repair to the seaside onthe Laurentine coast, where they amused themselvesby gathering shells and pebbles. (Cic. de Or. ii. 6;Val Max. viii. 8. § 4.) On the other hand, thebay-trees (lauri) with which the Silva Laurentinawas said to abound were thought to have a benefi­cial effect on the health, and on this account theemperor Commodus was advised to retire to a villanear Laurentum during a pestilence at Rome. (Hero-dian. i. 12.) The name of Laurentum itself wasgenerally considered to be derived from the numberof these trees, though Virgil would derive it from aparticular and celebrated tree of the kind. (VicU ]. 2