OCR Output 138 LATIUM. LATIUM. to the notion that Alb* was in another sense the me­tropolis of Latium, and that all, or at any rate thegreater part, of the cities of Latium were merely co­lonies of Alba. So far was this idea carried, that wefind expressly enumerated in the list nf such coloniesplaces like Ardea, Tuscnlam, and Pracneste, which,according to other traditions generally received, weremore ancient than Alba itself. (Liv. i. 52; Dionys.iii 34; Diod. vii. ap. Eustb.Arm. p. 185; Vict Orig.Grnl. Rom. IT.) [Alba Loxoa.] l'liny has, however, preserved to ns a statement ofa very different stamp, according to which therewere thirty towns or communities, which he termsthe "popoli Albenses," that were accustomed toshare in the sacrifices on the Alban Mount Manyof these names are now obscure or unknown, severalothers appear to have been always inconsiderableplaces, while a few only subsequently figure amongthe well-known cities of Latium. It is thereforehighly probable that we have here nn authenticrecord, preserved from ancient times, of a leaguewhich actually subsisted at a very early period,before Alba became the head of the more importantand better known confederacy of the Latins ingeneral. Of the towns thus enumerated, thosewhose situation can be determined with any cer­tainty were all (with the remarkable exception ofFidenae) situated in the immediate neighbourhoodof the Alban Hills; and thus appear to have beengrouped around Alba as their natural centre. Amongthem we find Bola, Pedum, Toleria, and Vitellia onth<- N. of the Alban Hills, and Corioli, Longula,and Pollusca on the S. of the same group. On theother band, the more powerful cities of Aricia, Lanu-viutn, and Tuscnlum, though so much nearer toAlba, arc not included in this list. But there is aremarkable statement of Cato (np. Priscian, iv. p.629), in which he speaks of the celebrated templeof Diana at Aricia, as founded in common by thepeople of Tuscnlum, Aricia, Lanuvium, Laurentnm,Cora, Tibur, Pomctia, Ardea, and the Kutuli, thatseems to point to the existence of a separate, and, asit were, counter league, subsisting at the same timewith that of which Alba was the head. All theseminor unions would seem, however, to have ultimatelybeen merged in the general confederacy of the La­tins, of which, according to the tradition universallyadapted by Koman writers, Alba was the acknow­ledged head. Another people whoee name appears in all theearliest historical traditions nf Latium, but who hadbecome completely merged in the general body ofthe Latin nation, before we arrive at the historicalperiod, was that of the Rutuli. Their capital wasArdea, a city to which a Greek or Argive origin wasascribed [Akdba]; if any value can be attached tosuch traditions, they may be regarded as painting toa Pelasgic origin of,the Rutuli; and Niebuhr ex- iplains the traditionary greatness of Ardea by sup­posing it to hare been the chief city of maritimeLatium, while it was stilt in the hands of the IV-hugians. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 44, vol. ii. p. 21.) One of the most difficult questions connected withthe early history of I^itium is the meaning andorigin of the term "Prisci Latini," which we findapplied by many Roman writers to the cities of theLatin League, and which occurs in a formula givenby Livy that has every appearance of being veryancient. (Liv. i. 32.) It may safely be assumedthat the term means "Old Latins," and Kiebuhrs Iidea Uiat Priaci was itself a national appellation' has been generally rejected as untenable. Bat itis difficult to believe that a people could everhave called themselves '' the old Latins:" and yetit seems certain that the name was so used, bothfrom ita occurrence in the formula just referred w(which was in all probability borrowed from tb*old law books of the Fetiales), and from toecircumstance that we find the name almost solelyin connection with the wars of Ancua Msrviue andTarquinius Prisons (Liv. i. 32, 33, 38); and itnever occurs at a later period. Hence it seemsimpossible to suppose that it was used as a terra ofdistinction for the Latins properly so called, orinhabitants of Latium Antiquum, as contradis­tinguished from the Aequians, YoUcians, andother nations subsequently included in Latiuin:a supposition adopted by several modern writers.On the other hand the name does not occur in theKoman history, prior to the destruction of Alba,and perhaps the most plausible conjecture is thaithe name was ono assumed by a league or con­federacy of the Latin cities, established after thefull of Alba, but who thus asserted their chum torepresent the original and ancient Latin peopie.It must be admitted that this explanation seemswholly at variance with the statement that thePrisci Latini were the colonies of Alba, which isfound both in Livy and Dionyaios (Liv. i. 3; Dio­nys. i. 45), but this probably meant to conveynothing more than the notion already noticed, tliaiall the cities of Lntium were founded by snch c*ti»-nies. Livy, at least, seems certainly to regard tb**' Prisci Latini" as equivalent to the wbole Letxwnation, and not as a part contradistinguished fromthe rest. (Liv. i. 38.) 2. Relations of the Latins mih Rome.—As thefirst historical appearance of the I-atins is that of avconfederation of different cities, of which Alba wasthe head, so the fall and destruction of Alba may beregarded as the first event in their annals which canbe termed historical. The circumstances transmittedto us in connection with this are undoubtedly poeticalfictions; but the main fact of the destruction p4 thecity and downfal of its power is well rstaMieheil.This event must have been followed by a completederangement in the previously existing relation*.Rome appears to have speedily put forth a claim 1stthe supremacy which Alba hail previously exeiusesl(Dionys. iii. 34); but it is evident that this was notacknowledged by the other cities of Latium : andthe Prisci Latini, whose name appears in hisierronly during tl Is period, probably firmed a separateleague of their own. It was not long, however, be­fore the Romans succeeded in establishing their supe­riority: and the statement of the Roman annals, thatthe Latin league was renewed under Tarqninme Sej-perbus, and the supremacy of that monarch acknow­ledged by all the other cities that composed it oV ivvea strong confirmation from the more authentic *.**£>-mony of the treaty between Rome and Carth-are,preserved to us by Polybius (iii. 22). In this ini-jiortant document, which dates from the year invra»n»-ately following the ex pulsion of the kini.** (n-t\ Vtti.Home appears ns stipulating on behalf nf the pe> ;irof Ardea, Antium, Laiirrntum, C'irrrii, Tarrs»-aa,anil the other subject (or dependent) cities of Latonavand even making conditions in regard to the wbvJrl-atin territory, as if it was subject to its rainBut the state of things which appears to have dot*at this time fully established, was broken up caratafter ; whether in consequence of the revelotioB at