OCR Output 9a THE DECLINE AND. FALL Condianus; whose fraternal love has saved their names from obli­vion, and endeared their memory to posterity. Their studies andtheir occupations, their pursuits and their pleasures, were still thefame. In the enjoyment of a great estate, they never admitted theidea of a separate interest; some fragments are now extant of a-treatise which they composed in common; and in every action oflife it was observed, that their two bodies were animated by one foul.The Antonines, who valued their virtues, and delighted in theirunion, raised them, in the some year, to the consulship; andMarcus afterwards intrusted to their joint care, the civil admi­nistration of Greece, and a great military command, in which theyobtained a signal victory over the Germans. The kind cruelty of. . Commodus united them in death ' •.The minister The tyrant's rage, after having shed the noblest blood of the se­nate, at length recoiled on the principal instrument of his cruelty.Whilst Commodus was immersed in blood and luxury, he devolvedthe detail of the public business on Perennis ; a servile and ambitiousminister, who had obtained his post by the murder of his predecessor,but who possessed a considerable share of vigour and ability. Byacts of extortion, and the forfeited estates of the nobles sacrificed tohis avarice, he had accumulated an immense treasure. The Præ­torian guard's were under his immediate command; and his son,who already discovered a military genius, was at the head of theIllyrian legions. Perennis aspired to the empire; or what, in theeyes of Commodus, amounted to the fame crime, he was capableof aspiring to it, had he not been prevented, surprised, and put tot8ty death. The fall of a minister is a very trifling incident in. thegeneral history of the empire; but it was hastened by an extra­ordinary circumstance, which proved how much the nerves of dis­cipline were already relaxed. The legions of Britain, discontentedwith the administration of Perennis, formed a deputation of fifteenhundred select men, with instructions to march to Rome, and lay their