OCR Output CHAP. LI. 461 were overturned by the hostile fury of the Donatists, theVandals, and the Moors. The zeal and numbers of theclergy declined; and the people, without discipline, orknowledge, or hope, submissively sunk under the yokeof the Arabian prophet. Within fifty years after 'the expulsion of the Greeks, a lieutenant of Africainformed the caliph that the tribute of the infidels wasabolished by their conversion,' and, though he sought todisguise his fraud and rebellion, his specious pretencewas drawn from the rapid and extensive progress of theMahometan faith. In the next age, an extraor- 'dinary mission of five bishops was detached fromAlexandria to Cairoan. They were ordained by the Ja­cobite patriarch to cherish and revive the dying embersof Christianity:8 but the interposition of a foreign prelate,a stranger to the Latins, an enemy to the Catholics, sup­poses the decay and dissolution of the African hierarchy.It was no longer the time when the successor of St. Cy­prian, at the head of a numerous synod, could maintainan equal contest with the ambition of the Roman pontiff.A.D.1053 'n the eleventh century, the unfortunate priest—lore. wno was seated on the ruins of Carthage, im­plored the arms and the protection of the Vatican; andhe bitterly complains that his naked body had beenscourged by the Saracens, and that his authority wasdisputed by the four suffragans, the tottering pillars ofhis throne. Two epistles of Gregory VII.b are destinedto soothe the distress of the Catholics and the pride ofa Moorish prince. The pope assures the sultan that theyboth worship the same God, and may hope to meet inthe bosom of Abraham; but the complaint, that threebishops could no longer be found to consecrate a brother, * The letter of Abdoulrahman, governor or tyrant of Africa, to the caliph AboulAbbas, the first of the Abbassides, is dated A.H. 132. (Cardonne, Hist, de I'Afriqueet de I'Espagne, torn. 1. p. 168.) • Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 66. Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 287, 288.b Among the Epistles of the Popes, see Leo IX. epist. 3. Gregor. VII. lib. epist. 22, 23. lib. 3. epist. 19—21. and the criticisms of Pagi, (torn. 4. A. D. 1053.no. 1S.) who investigates the name and family of the Moorish prince, with whomthe proudest of the Roman pontiffs so politely corresponds.