OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 217 poetical compositions, the harmony and softness of chap.the odes of Sappho. This minister, to whom Julian XVIILcommunicated, without reserve, his most carelesslevities, and his most serious counsels, received anextraordinary commission to restore, in its pristinebeauty, the temple of Jerusalem; and the diligenceof Alypius required and obtained the strenuous sup足port of the governor of Palestine. At the call oftheir great deliverer, the Jews, from all the provincesof the empire, assembled on the holy mountain oftheir fathers; and their insolent triumph alarmedand exasperated the Christian inhabitants of Jerusa足lem. The desire of rebuilding the temple has, inevery age, been the ruling passion of the children ofIsrael. In this propitious moment the men forgottheir avarice, and the women their delicacy; spadesand pickaxes of silver were provided by the vanity ofthe rich, and the rubbish was transported in mantlesof silk and purple. Every purse was opened in liberalcontributions, every hand claimed a share in thepious labour; and the commands of a great monarchwere executed by the enthusiasm of a whole people *. Yet, oh this occasion, the joint efforts of power The enter-and enthusiasm were unsuccessful; and the ground defeated;of the Jewish temple, which is now covered by aMahometan mosque t, still continued to exhibit thesame edifying spectacle of ruin and desolation. Per足haps the absence and death of the emperor, and thenew maxims of a Christian reign, might explain theinterruption of an arduous work, which was attemptedonly in the last six months of the life of Julian I. * See the zeal and impatience of the Jews in Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p.111.) and Theodoret (1 . iii. c. 20.). f Built by Omar, the second Khalif, who died A. D. 644. This greatmosque covers the whole consecrated ground of the Jewish temple, and constitutesalmost a square of 700 toises, or one Roman mile in circumference. See d'An-ville Jerusalem, p. 45. f Ammianus records the consuls of the year 363, before he proceeds to men足tion the thoughts of Julian. Templum . . . instaurare sumptibus cogitaiatimmodicis. M'arburton has a secret wish to anticipate the design; but he must