OCR Output A D. 19.] 121 or TACITUS. Hat the whole army was called forth into the fieldby Rhamses, one of the kings of Egypt; and, underthe auspices of that monarch overran all Libya,.Ethiopia, and in their progress subdued the Medesand Persians, the Bactrians and the Scythians, withthe extensive regions inhabited by the Syrians, theArmenians, and their neighbours the Cappadocians.By this conquest a tract of country, extending fromBithynia on the Pontic Sea to the coast of Lycia, inthe Mediterranean, was reduced to subjection. Theinscription further stated the tribute payed by theconquered nations; the specific weight of gold andsilver; the quantity of arms, the number of horses,the offerings of ivory and of rich perfumes presentedto the temples of Egypt; the measure of grain, andthe various supplies administered by every nation;making altogether a prodigious revenue; no way in­ferior to the taxes of late years collected either byParthian despotism, or the authority of Rome. LXI. In a country abounding with wonders, thecuriosity of Germanicus was not easily satisfied. Hesaw the celebrated statue of Memnon, which, thoughwrought in stone, when played upon by the rays ofthe sun, returns a vocal sound. He visited the pyra­mids, those stupendous structures raised by the emu­lation of kings, at an incredible expense, amidst awaste of sands almost impassable. He saw the pro­digious bason, formed by the labour of man, to re­ceive the overflowings of the Nile ; and in other partsof the river, where the channel is narrowed, he ob­served a depth of water so profound, that the curio­sity of travellers has never been able to explore thebottom. The prince proceeded as far as Elphantine'and Scyend, the boundaries formerly of the Romanempire, though now extended as far as the Red Sea. LXII. While Germanicus passed the summer invisiting the provinces of Egypt, Drusus, by his ableconduct in Pannonia, acquired no small degree of re­putation. He had the address to make the Germansturn their hostilities against themselves. The powerof Maroboduus was in its wane; and his countrymenwere, by consequence, encouraged io complete the Voli.l.—L