OCR Output 94 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAPTER XLIII. Rebellions of Africa.—Restoration of the Gothic kingdom by Totila.—Loss and recoveryof Some.—Final conquest of Italy by Narses Extinction of the Ostrogoths.—De­feat of the Franks and Alemanni Last victory, disgrace, and death, of Belisarius.—- Death and character of Justinian.—Comet, earthquakes, and plague. The review of the nations from the Danube to the Nile, has exposed on everyside the weakness of the Romans; and our wonder is reasonably excited that theyshould presume to enlarge an empire, whose ancient limits they were incapable ofdefending. But the wars, the conquests, and the triumphs of Justinian, are thefeeble and pernicious efforts of old age, which exhaust the remains of strength,and accelerate the decay of the powers of life. He exulted in the glorious act ofrestoring Africa and Italy to the republic; but the calamities which followed thedeparture of Belisarius betrayed the impotence of the conqueror, and accomplishedthe ruin of those unfortunate countries. From his new acquisitions, Justinian expected that his avarice, as well as pride,should be richly gratified. A rapacious minister of the finances closely pursuedthe footsteps of Belisarius; and as the old registers of tribute had been burnt bythe Vandals, he indulged his fancy in a liberal calculation and arbitrary assess­ment of the wealth of Africa. (1) The increase of taxes, which were drawnaway by a distant sovereign, and a general resumption of the-patrimony or crownlands, soon dispelled the intoxication of the public joy: but the emperor was insen­sible to the modest complaints of the people, till he was awakened and alarmed bythe clamours of military discontent. Many of the Roman soldiers had married the•widows and daughters of the Vandals. As their own, by the double right of con­quest and inheritance, they claimed the estates which Genseric had assigned tohis victorious troops. They heard with disdain the cold and selfish representa­tions of their officers; that the liberality of Justinian had raised them from a sa­vage or servile condition; that they were already enriched by the spoils of Africa,the treasure, the slaves, and the moveables, of the vanquished barbarians; andthat the ancient and lawful patrimony of the emperors would be applied only tothe support of that government on which their own safety and reward must ulti­mately depend. The mutiny was secretly inflamed by a thousand soldiers, forthe most part Heruli, who had imbibed the doctrines, and were instigated by theclergy, of the Arian sect; and the cause of perjury and rebellion was. sanctified bythe dispensing powers of fanaticism. The Arians deplored the ruin of their church,triumphant above a century in Africa; and they were justly provoked by the lawsof the conqueror, which interdicted the baptism of their children, and the exer­cise of all religious worship. Of the Vandals chosen by Belisarius, the far greaterpart, in the honours of the eastern service, forgot their country and religion. Buta generous band of four hundred obliged the mariners, when they were in sight ofthe isle of Lesbos, to alter their course: they touched on Peloponnesus, ran ashoreon a desert coast of Africa, and boldly erected on mount Aurasius, the standard ofindependence and revolt. While the troops of the province disclaimed the com­mand of their superiors, a conspiracy was formed at Carthage against the life ofSolomon, who filled with honour the place of Belisarius; and the Arians had pi­ously resolved to sacrifice the tyrant at the foot of the altar, during the awful mys­teries of the festival of Easter. Fear or remorse restrained the daggers of the as­sassins, but the patience of Solomon emboldened their discontent; and at the endof ten days, a furious sedition was kindled in the circus, which desolated Africaabove ten years. The pillage of the city, and the indiscriminate slaughter of itsinhabitants, were suspended only by darkness, sleep, and intoxication: the go­vernor, with seven companions, among whom was the historian Procopius, escapedto Sicily: two-thirds of the army were involved in the guilt of treason, and eight (1) For the troubles of Africa, I neither have nor desire another guide than Procopius, whose eye contem­plated the image, and whose ear collected the reports of the memorable events of his own times. In the se­cond book of the Vandalic war he relates the revolt of Stoza (c. 14—24..) the return of Belisarius (c. 15.) thevictory of Germanus (e. 16—18.,) the second administration of Solomon (c. 19—21.,) the government of Sergius(c. 22,23.,) of Areobindus (c. 24.,) the tyranny and death of Gontharis Cc. 2S—St.;) nor can I discern «nv symp­toms of flattery or malevolence in his'various portraits'.