OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL II was covered by fifteen hundred chosen horse, destined,according to the emergencies of action, to sustain the re­treat of their friends, or to encompass the flank of theenemy. From his proper station at the head of the rightwing, the eunuch rode along the line, expressing by hisvoice and countenance the assurance of victory; excitingthe soldiers of the emperor to punish the guilt and mad­ness of a band of robbers; and exposing to their view,gold chains, collars, and bracelets, the rewards of militaryvirtue. From the event of a single combat, they drewan omen of success; and they beheld with pleasure thecourage of fifty archers, who maintained a small emi­nence against three successive attacks of the Gothic ca­valry. At the distance only of two bow-shots, the ar­mies spent the morning in dreadful suspense, and the Ro­mans tasted some necessary food, without unlooseningthe cuirass from their breast, or the bridle from theirhorses. Narses awaited the charge; and it was delayedby Totila till he had received his last succours of twothousand Goths. While he consumed the hours infruitless treaty, the king exhibited in a narrow space thestrength and agility of a warrior. His armour was en­chased with gold; his purple banner floated with thewind; he cast his lance into the air; caught it with theright hand; shifted it to the left; threw himself back­wards; recovered his seat; and managed a fiery steed inall the paces and evolutions of the equestrian school.As soon as the succours had arrived, he retired to histent, assumed the dress and arms of a private soldier,and gave the signal of battle. The first line of cavalryadvanced with more courage than discretion, and left be­hind them the infantry of the second line. They weresoon engaged between the horns of a crescent, into whichthe adverse wings had been insensibly curved, and weresaluted from either side by the volleys of four thousandarchers. Their ardour, and even their distress, drovethem forwards to a close and unequal conflict, in which