OCR Output OF ROME. 417 camp had been taken and plundered, the di&ator BOOKgiving up the fpoil to the foldiers, the horfemen, who , '_,had purfued the enemy in their flight from the camp, Y R. 337.returned with intelligence, that after their defeat all B.c. **s'the Lavicanians, and a great part of the ^Equans,had retreated to Lavici; on which the army wasnext day conducted thither, and the town being in­vefted on every fide, was taken by ftorm and plun­dered. The dictator, having led home his victoriousarmy to Rome, refigned his office, on the eighth ,day after his appointment j and the fenate, feizingthe opportunity, before the tribunes of the commonsfhould raife feditions about lands, by introducing apropofal for a diftribution of the territory of Lavici,voted, in full affembly, that a colony mould be con-ducted to Lavici. One thoufand five hundred co-lonifts, fent from the city, received each two acres.During two years after the taking of Lavici, in the Y.R. 338.firft of which Agrippa Menenius Lanatus, Lucius B.C.4H.Servilius Structus, Publius Lucretius Tricipitinus,all thefe a fecond time, and Spurius Rutilus Crafluswere military tribunes with confular power; and inthe following, Aulus Sempronius Atratinus a third Y.R. 339.time, and Marcus Papirius Mugillanus and Spurius B.c.4'3'Nautius Rutilus both a fecond time. There wastranquillity with refpecT: to affairs abroad, but at homedifienfions occafioned by agrarian laws. t % XLVIII? THE incendiaries of the populace-werethe Spurii, tribunes of the commons, Maecilius afourth time, and Maetilius a third, both elected intheir abfence. A very violent conteft between thepatricians and plebeians was now expected on thefubject of the agrarian laws; for thefe tribunes hadpublicly propofed a law, that the lands, taken fromtheir enemies, fhould be diftributed in fuch a man­ner, that every man might have a fhare: had thispropofal pafied into a law, the property of a greatpart of the nobles would have been confifcated; for VOL. r. £ E fcarcely