OCR Output 918 PARMATIA. SARMATIA. data both a3 to the names by which the popula­tions of the parts in quesion designate themselves,as well as those by which they are designated bytheir neighbours, there are no satisfactory identifica­tions at all. There are some that we may arriveat by a certain amount of assumption; but it isdoubtful whether this is legitimate. In the names,for instance, beginning with sa- (Sa-boci, &c.) welr.ay see the Slavonic for trans; in those with po-the Slavonic ad, — both of which are common inthe geographical terminology of the Russians, &cBut these are uncertain, as are the generality ofthe other coincidences. In Siberia, for instance, a Samoyed tribe is namedMotored: name for name, this may be Materi;whether, however, it denote the same population isanother question. Are the Sarmatiae of Ptolemy natural divisions?Subject to an hyjiothesis, which will be just statedin the present article, but which will be exhibited infull in Scythia, the Sarmatiae of Ptolemy are ob­jectionable, both for what it contains ami what itomits. The whole of Asiatic Sarmatia is, moreor less, arbitrary. It seems to be a developmentof the area of the llerodotean Sauromatae. In thenorth it comprised Finn or Ugrian, in the southCircassian and Georgian, populations. The Alauniwere Scythian, as were several other tribes. It istherefore no ethnological term. Neither are itsboundaries natural, if we look at the physical con­ditions of the country. It was defined npon varyingand different principles,—sometimes with a view tophysical, sometimes to ethnological, sometimes topolitical geography. It contains more than a naturalSarmatia. On the other band, the Vistula was no ethnologicalline of demarcation. The western half of Polandwas Sannatian, in respect to its climate, surface, andthe manners of its inhabitants. The Lygii, however,having been made part of Gennania, remained so inthe eyes of Ptolemy. That the populations on each sideof the Lower Vistula, i. e. of West and East Prus­sia, were the same, is certain; it is certain, at least,that they were so at the beginning of the historicalperiod, and all inference leads us to hold that theywere so before. The Vistula, however, like the Rhine,was a good natural boundary. The Jazyges Metanastae were most probably Sar­matian also. Pliny calls them Jazyges Sarmatae(iv. 25); the name Metanastae being generally in­terpreted removed. It is, however, quite as likelyto be some native adjunct misunderstood, and adaptedto the Greek language. The other Jazyges (i. e. of the Maeotis) suggestedthe doctrine of a migration. Yet, if the current in­terpretation be right, there might be any amount ofJazyges in any part of Sarmatia. It is the Slavonicfor language, and, by extension, for the people whospeak a language:—"a po Ocje rjeje, gde wteczet'w Wolgu, jaztfk swoj Muroma, i Czeremisi swojja2yk, e Mordwa swoj jazyk;"— translated, "Onthe Oka river, where it falls into the Volga, aparticular people, the Muroma, and the Tsheremis,a peculiar people, and the Mordwins, a peculiarpeople." (Zeuss, s. v. Ostjitmen). Hence it lias atleast a Slavonic gloss. On the other hand, it has ameaning in the Magyar language, where Jassag— bowman, a fact which has induced many scholarsto believe that there were Magyars in Hungary beforethe great Magyar invasion, indeed before the Hun.lie this as it may, the district of the Jazyges Me- tanastae is called the Jassag district il tlx moment. More than one of the Daciaa pnpsataoi nsSarmatian,—the difference between Dans, tatof the Roman Province, and Sannatia. Ike t*of an independent and hostile population,merely political. Indeed, if we look to tbibution of the Sarmatae, their soath esstaimust have the part* about TonnL [Sac S*<tab.] Here, however, they wen* intrant KtuxoliXjy. — The doctrine a poo thamerely stated in the present notice. It aafldsjin the article on Scythia. It a totbeeflsftlin its proper application, Sarmatim aaaslmany, or alt of the north-eastern nwmbm imSlavonic family, proliably, with mow mesasthe Lithuanic, included. History. — The early Sarmatian hstwrathian as well [Scythia], and it boot sailnonia becomes a Roman province that thetribes become prominent in history, and,the distribution of the several wars andtween the several nations who our* undneral denomination is obnenre. Id doiar.is much that in a notice like the srsssateliminated. The relations of the Greeks atRomans with Sarmatia were with Sryth*Getae as well, the relations of the latter hithe provincials of Pan nonia, with theand Quadi, &c Both are neighbours to ■of Jazyges. The great Mithridatic Empire, or, Stthe Mithridatic Confederacy, containedeo nomine, descendants of the Herodotaatmatae. Members of this division it mast Siwhom the Marcus, the brother of Loam Ichastised and drove beyond the Daxtttf.march through Moesia. Those, too, it wwhom the Cis-Panubian nations in rawsoftenest in contact,—Jazyges. Roxolani, Q&c, who though (almost certainly) Sarsntheir ethnological affinities, are not, easaaamatian, but, on the contrary, popnlait<aw mor less of an independent history of nWThirdly, the Sarmatians, who, in conjGetae, Daci, Moesians, Thracians. arc ■been found in the districts tooxh of ttotmust he looked npon as intrusive and foragasoil on which they are found. On the other hand, it must bethe Sarmatae eo nomine fall intodivided from each other by the wholeRoman province of Dacia, the area rf* thateast being the parts between the DaaeasDon, the area of those of the west boss; 1between the Danube and The its. The i*Jthe former are with the Scythians, Rassikings of Pontus, &c., over whom, atsMjvM. Crass us triumphed. His actions, to*well as those of M. Luc all us, so far as tiagainst the Sarmatae, were only accwMtowin the campaigns by which Moesa warnThe whole of the Trans-Dtanmbtaa 6sMoesia, east of Viminiacnm. was funaW I The point at which the Remans and Sswould more especially come in contactcountry about Sinnium, where the tawe |of Panuonia, Illyricnm, and M>«su wDed.sthe pre-eminently Sarmatian districts efbetween the Danube and Theiss laypre-eminently Sarmatian as ufpnssjrl It