OCR Output AN. 143.] 473 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. were ensnaring and treacherous; and yetthat it was more eligible to send the money,and Jonathan's sons; than to be liable to theimputation of not complying with Trypho'soffers, and thereby refusing to save his bro­ther. Accordingly Simon sent the sons ofJonathan, and the money. But when Tryphohad received them, he did not keep his pro­mise, nor set Jonathan free; but took hisarmy, and went about all the country, andresolved to go up afterward to Jerusalem bythe way of Idumea; while Simon went overagainst him with his army; and invariablypitched his own camp over against him. When those that were in the citadel hadsent to Trypho, and besought him to makehaste, and come to them, and to send them Erovisions, he prepared his cavalry, as thoughe would be at Jerusalem that very night.But so great a quantity of snow fell in thenight that it covered the roads, and madethem so deep, that there was no passing,especially for the cavalry; and this preventedhim from coming to Jerusalem. Trypho there­fore removed thence, and came into Coele-syria; and falling vehemently upon the landof Gilead, he slew Jonathan there, and whenhe had given order for his burial, he returnedto Antioch.* However Simon sent some tothe city Basca, to bring away his brother'sbones; and buried them in their own city,Modin. And all the people made great la­mentation over him. Simon also erected avery large monument for his father, and hisbrethren, of white and polished stone; andraised it a great height, and so as to be seenat a considerable distance; and made clois­ters about it, and set up pillars, which wereof one stone apiece. Moreover he built sevenpyramids for his parents, and his brethren, * An. 143 B.C. t There is some error in the copies here; when nomore than four years are ascribed to the high-priesthoodof Jonathan. We know by Josephus's last Jewish chro­nology, XX. 10. that there was an interval of seven yearsbetween the death of Alcimus. or Jacimns, the last high-priest, and the real high-priesthood of Jonathan; to whomyet those seven years seem here to be ascribed; as partof them were to Judas before, XII. 10. Now since, be­sides those seven years interregnum in the pontificate,we are told, XX. 10. that Jonathan's real high-priesthoodlasted seven years more; these two seven years will makeup fourteen years; which I suppose was Josephus's ownnumber in this place, instead of the four in our presentcopies. one for each of them; which were made verysurprising, both for their largeness, andbeauty; and which have been preserved tothis day. And we know that it was Simonwho bestowed so much zeal about the burialof Jonathan, and the building of these monu­ments for his relations. Now Jonathan diedwhen he had been high-priest ffour years;and had been also the governor of his nation.And these were the circumstances that con­cerned his death. But Simon, who was made high-priest bythe multitude, on the very first year of hishigh-priesthood set his people free from theirslavery under the Macedonians; and permit­ted them to pay tribute to them no longer.Which liberty and freedom from tribute theyobtained after a Jhundred and seventy yearsof the kingdom of the Assyrians; which wasafter Seleucus, who was called Nicator, gotthe dominion over Syria. Now the affectionof the multitude toward Simon was so great,that in their contracts one with another, andin their public records, they wrote, "In thefirst year of Simon, the benefactor and eth-narch of the Jews." For under him theywere very happy, and overcame the enemiesthat were round about them. For Simonoverthrew the cities Gazara, Joppa, andJamnia. He also took the citadel of Jerusa­lem by siege, and cast it down to the ground;that it might not be any more a place of re­fuge to their enemies, when they took it, todo them a mischief; as it had been till now.And when he had done this, he thought itadvisable, and most for their advantage, tolevel the very mountain itself, upon whichthat citadel happened to stand; that so thetemple might be higher than it. And whenhe had called the multitude to an assembly, J These 170 years of the Assyrians, mean no more, asJosephus explains himself here, than from the era of Se­leucus; which as it is known to have begun on the 312thyear before the Christian era; from its spring in the firstbook of Maccabees, and from its autumn in the second bookof Maccabees; so did it not begin at Babylon till the nextspring, on the 311th year. See Prideaux, at the year 312.And it is truly observed by Dr. Hudson on this place, thatthe Syrians and Assyrians are sometimes confounded inancient authors: according to the words of Justin theEpitomizer of Trogus Pompeius; who says, that "TheAssyrians were afterwards called Syrians," I. 11. SeeOf the War, V. 9. where the Philistines themselves, atthe very south limit of Syria, in its utmost extent, arecalled Assyrians by Josephus, as Spanheim observes.