OCR Output 324 The peloponnesian war. whole advanced guard to the sword, having surprised then!yet in their huts, and but seeking to lay hold of their arms.Their landing was yet undiscovered, since the enemy judgedtheir vessels to be only the usual guard which was everynight in motion. No sooner also was the dawn completely broke, thanthe remainder of the Athenian force was landed from anumber of vessels somewhat more than seventy. All themariners came ashore, in their respective distinctions ofarms, excepting the rowers of the lowest bench*. Theywere eight hundred archers, and a body no less numerousof targeteers. The Messenian auxiliaries attended, andall in general who had been employed at Pylus, except suchas were necessarily detained for the guard of the fortress. According to a disposition formed by Demosthenes, theyadvanced in separate bodies, consisting of near two hundredmore or less, and took possession of all the eminences. Thedesign was, thus to reduce the enemy to a plunge of distressby surrounding them on all sides, and puzzling them in theirchoice which party first to make head against, that at thesight of numbers on all sides they might be quite confound­ed; and, should they then attack the body in their front,they might be harassed by others in their rear; or, shouldthey wheel towards those on either flank, they might be ex­posed to the bodies both in front and rear. Which waysoever the enemy might turn, they were sure to have behindthem the light-armed and less martial of their opponents, • It is in the original, excepting the Thalamii. The rowers on the differ­ent benches were distinguished by a peculiar name. Those of the upper­most were called Thramue ,- those of the middle, Zeugita,- and those ofthe lowest, Thalamii. The labour of the Thalamii was the least, thoughmost constant, because of ttieir nearness to the water, and the shortness oftheir OBrs. Much more strength and skill were required on the upperbenches, and most of all on the uppermost, who for that reason had betterpay. Those on the lowest bench seem to have been mere drudges at theoar, and quahfied for nothing better (-the others were more complete sea­men, and ready on all occasions for the duty both of rowing and fighting-