OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123 devoutly ascribes his miraculous deliverance to the chap.protection of the Gods, who had exempted his inno- XVLcence from the sentence of destruction pronouncedby their justice against the impious house of Con-stantine *. As the most effectual instrument of theirprovidence, he gratefully acknowledges the steadyand generous friendship of the empress Eusebiat, awoman of beauty and merit, who, by the ascendantwhich she had gained over the mind of her husband,counterbalanced, in some measure, the powerful con­spiracy of the eunuchs. By the intercession of hispatroness, Julian was admitted into the Imperial pre­sence; he pleaded his cause with a decent freedom,he was heard with favour; and, notwithstanding theefforts of his enemies, who urged the danger of sparingan avenger of the blood of Gallus, the milder senti­ment of Eusebia prevailed in the council. But theeffects of a second interview were dreaded by theeunuchs; and Julian was advised to withdraw for awhile into the neighbourhood of Milan, till the em­peror thought proper to assign the city of Athens for He is sentthe place of his honourable exile. As he had dis- a.^X 355.covered from his earliest youth a propensity, orMa^rather passion, for the language, the manners, thelearning, and the religion of the Greeks, he obeyedwith pleasure an order so agreeable to his wishes.Far from the tumult of arms and the treachery ofcourts, he spent six months amidst the groves of theacademy, in a free intercourse with the philosophersof the age, who studied to cultivate the genius, toencourage the vanity, and to inflame the devotion of * Julian has worked the crimes and misfortunes of the family of,Constantinointo an allegorical fable, which is happily conceived and agreeably related. Itforms the conclusion of the seventh Oration, from whence it has been detachedand translated by the Abbe de la Bleterie. Vie de Jovien, torn. ii. p. 385—408. f She was a native of Thessalonica in Macedonia, of a noble family, and thedaughter as well as sister of consuls. Her marriage with the emperor may beplaced in the year 352. In a divided age the historians of all parties agree in herpraises. See their testimonies collected by TUlemont, Hist. des Empereurs, torn.iv. p. 750—754.