OCR Output 244 NOTES. the same time perceive that there may be great and good men even underbad princes—where we behold fortune, fate and the gods themselves, in amanner wonderful and never sufficiently understood by mortals, direct thechangeful vicissitudes of human life, contemplating in the Annals the singu­lar fatality that followed the Julian family to its utter extinction, in the His­tories the convulsive energies that were put forth to re-establish a vacant andtottering sovereignty, do we not seem to ourselves to be reading some tragedyof /Eschylus, Sophocles or Euripides—does not the sorrowful image of Niobestand before our eyes—are we not stricken through with a kind of horror, asif at the sight of Laocoon struggling in vain to disengage himself from thecrushing folds of the serpent ? Truly worthy of Tacitus, worthy also of themajesty of the Roman empire, is the design to explain with becoming wis­dom and diligence by what fate or fortune or succession of events ' jampridempraevalentis populi vires se ipsae confecerint1*—what vices of the people ortheir rulers provoked the justice and the vengeance of the immortal gods, andprecipitated the fall of so vast an empire! So, like a second Scipio, we beholdTacitus sitting not now on the ruins of Carthage, but on the soil of Rome her­self, already tottering to her fall, and predicting with gushing tears the de­struction of his country, and that not in words of elaborate and far-fetchedstudy, but in such obvious and to him spontaneous forms of pathetic eloquence,as to present to the very eye the perfect image of that country* convulsed andtrembling on the verge of dissolution." Livy is the only Latin historian who can at all contest the palm with Taci­tus. We need not attempt accurately to adjust the balance between them.It were no discredit to either of them to acknowledge the other to be hissuperior. Indeed their merits are so unlike that they can hardly be broughtinto direct comparison. There is no ratio between unlike quantities in mathe­matics ; neither can the terms greater and less be predicated in the gross ofdistinguished but diverse authors. In style, the pre-eminence must be con­ceded to Livy. His amazing versatility, his infinite variety always pleasesand never tires. Unpretending narrative and elaborate description, conciseannals and discursive eloquence, succeed and relieve each other with an in­exhaustible fertility—as the critics term it, with a lactea ubertas, both inthought and language, "always fresh, always sweet, always pure." Tacitus,it must be confessed, is wanting in variety and simplicity.t He does indeedvary his construction and forms of expression infinitely, as Boetticher andDoederleint have well illustrated. But he wants that higher variety andbeauty of historical composition, which results from telling a " fine storyfinely" and " a plain story plainly." He is always treading the stage in hishigh-heeled tragic buskins, and declaiming to a crowded amphitheatre at thetop of his voice. Doubtless his best passages far surpass any thing that can befound in Livy, for coloring and effect. But Livy on the whole is a morepleasing book to the reader, and a safer model for the young writer. Livy istho author to be read continuously; Tacitus, to be taken up at intervals. Theone furnishes a wholesome variety of food for the mind; the other serves hisreader too exclusively with strong meats and stimulating condiments. * Vid. Preface of Livy. t Vid. Life of Tacitus, p. 9. * Vid. Essay on the Style of Tacitus.