OCR Output @2 , DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL Homo?' The fortifications of Europe and Asia were multipliedEurope, by Justinian; but the repetition of those timid and fruit?less precautions exposes to a philosophic eye the debilityof the empire.' From Belgrade to the Euxine,from theconflux of the Save to the mouth of the Danube, a chainof above fourscore fortified places was extended alongthe banks of the great river. Single watch-towers werechanged into spacious citadels; vacant walls, which theengineers contracted or enlarged according to the na­ture of the ground, were filled with colonies or garri­sons; a strong fortress defended the ruins of Trajan'sbridge," and several military stations affected to spreadbeyond the Danube the pride of the Roman name. Butthat name was divested of its terrors; the barbarians, intheir annual inroads, passed, and contemptuously re­passed, before these useless bulwarks; and the inhabit­ants of the frontiers, instead of reposing under the sha­dow of the general defence, were compelled to guard,with incessant vigilance, their separate habitations. Thesolitude of ancient cities was replenished; the new foun­dations of Justinian acquired, perhaps too hastily, theepithets of impregnable and populous; and the auspici­ous place of his own nativity attracted the grateful rever­ence of the vainest of princes. Under the name oiJusti-niana prima,the obscure village of Tauresium became theseat of an archbishop and a prefect, whose jurisdictionextended over seven warlike provinces of Illyricum,x and ocean grow to Ihe length of fifty, eighty, or one hundred feet. (Hist, des Voyages,.tom. 15. p. 289. Pennant's British Zoology, vol. 3. p. 35.) « Montesquieu observes, (tom. 3. p. 503. Considerations sur la Grandeur et la-Decadence des Romains, c. 20.) that Justinian's empire was like France in the timeof the Norman iuroads—never so weak as when every village was fortified. u Procopins affirms, (lib. 4. o. 6.) that the Danube was stopped by the ruins of thebridge. Had Apollodorus, the architect, left a description of his own work, the fa­bulous wonders of Dion Cassius (lib. 68. p. 1129.) would have been corrected by thegenuine picture, Trajan's bridge consisted of twenty or twenty-two stone piles withwooden arches; the river is shallow, the current gentle, and the whole interval nomore than four hnndred and forty-three (Reimar ad Dion, from MarSigli) or fivehnndred and fifteen tuises. (d'Anville Geographie Ancienne, tom. 1. p. 305.) * Of the two Dacias, Mediterrunea and Ripensis, Dardania, Praevalitana, the se­cond Msr'sia, and the second Macedonia. See Justinian. (Novell. 11.) who speaks,bfhis custles beyond the Danube, and of homines semper' bellicis sudoribus mbtBrrentes.