OCR Output IiOMA. ROMA. tion, over the three columns, Becker regards theorder of the Notitia as fully confirmed, and the threetemples to be respectively those of Concord, Ves­pasian and Titus, and Saturn. With regard to the.se inscriptions all are agreedthat the third, as here divided, belongs to the templeof Concord; but with regard to the proper divisionof the first two, there is great difference of opinion.Bunsen and Becker divide them as above, butCanina {Foro Rom. p. 179) contend* that the firstfinishes at the word "restituit," and that thewords from '* DJro Vespasiano" down to " rest it ue-rur.t:> form the second inscription, belonging to thetemple of Vespasian and Titus. In the originalcodex containing the inscriptions, which is in thelibrary of Kinsiedlen, they are written consecutively,without any mark where one begins and anotherends; so that the divisions in subsequent copies aremerely arbitrary and without any authority. Nowit may be observed that the first inscription, as di­vided by Canina, may still be read on the architraveof the eight columns, whicli it exactly fills, leaving nospace for any more words. Becker attempts to evadethis difficulty by the following assertion: "There isno room," he says (Hatuib. p. 357), "for the de­dication 1 Divo Vespasiano,' on the front of thetemple; and although it is unusual for one half ofan inscription to be placed on the back, yet on thisoccasion the situation of the temple excuses it!"We are of opinion, then, that the whole of thewords after " restituit " down to the beginning of theinscription on the temple of Concord, belong to thetemple of Vespasian, or that of which three columnsstill remain. Another proof that the words " DivoVespasiano Augusto" could never have existed overthe temple with the eight columns is that Poggio(rfd VarieL Fort. p. 12), in whose time the build­ing was almost entire, took it to be the temple ofConcord, which he could not have done had the de­dication to Vespasian belonged to it. (Bunbury, inClass. Mu$. iv. p. 27, note.) Thus two out ofBecker's three arguments break down, and all thathe has to adduce against the mass of evidence,from the best classical authorities, on the otherside, is a stiff and pedantic interpretation of theproposition jnj-ta in such a writer as Servius! Thusit is Becker himself who is amenable to his owncharge of shutting his eyes against historical evi­dence. His attempt to sejtaiate the altar from thetemple (fhiudb. p.313), at least in locality, is equallyunfortunate. fa NATVS PCFVLVSQE UHANVSfr.cEvprq corir'/MPTvtfl -hestjtvit 11 TKMPI.E OF SATURN. The remains of the temple of Saturn, at tri ■tico with the eight columns at the head of uV f-na,are in a rude and barbarous style of art.Mwitbcolumns being larger in diameter than rnhfri. HasCanina infers that the restoration wia i ren ti ar,and probably subsequent to the removal of tk a*of empire to Constantinople. Fmm tbe most uasltimes the temple of Saturn servedor state treasury, where the publictary ensigns, and important documentsserved (Liv. iii. 69; Plut Q, R. 43;"Solin. i. 12, &c). On account of it* Gnatssacrifices were performed at the altar <rf Sthe Greek rite, that is, capite aperta,capite velato as among the Romans (Mat Adjoining the temple of Saturn wis ■or Aedks of Ops. which served as i fcpublic money. The Fasti J mt/rmmi aodcvrttm mention it as being" ad Forms.'Vico Jugario," which determines its(Calend, A mil. Ike.; CmL Caprtm. Aif-\several times alluded to by Cicero: " Penis*ad Opis maneret" {PlriL L 7. cf. U. 14).the temple stood a statue of Si 1 vinos and sfig-tree, which it was necessary to493, as its roots began to upset tbexv. 20). Behind the temple, in Ior Angiportus, and about midway op tbrthe clivus, was the Porta Sterooraiia,a place where the ordure from the tempo;was deposited on the 15th of Jane t*(Varr. L. L. vi. § 32, Mull.; Festus, p. 3custom seems to have been connected wrtiof Stercutus applied to Saturn by theinventor of applying manure to tlx fieSat i. 7.) Close to the Ara SaturniSaoklixm -Dms, in which wa* maskspended during the Saturnalia, (/ft. 11.) But the most important altera* ice ma*quinius Priscus with regard to the tVrumcausing of porticoes and shops to he erertoiit (Liv. i. 35; Dionys. iii. 67). Tbisforum a fixed and unalterable shape.wonder at the smallness of its are* wbathat this was the great centre ofbusiness for the mistress of the wormust recollect that its bounds wenwhen she herself was not yet secureattempts of surrounding nations. As bpopulation gradually increasedadopted for procuring moreby the erection of spaciousthe imperial times, by the construct**{bra. But at first, the structures thatforum were rather of a useful thanand the tabernae of Tarquinshops, schools, and other places of a Bhas we leani from the story of Virginia.berxae were distinguished by the muncsand Norat, whence it seems probssbteformer were erected in the time of ~sides of the forum, lengthways, derivedfrom them, one being called jW> Vsub Xoris. A passage iu Cicero, whathese tabernae with the old and newables us to determine their re&pectiwqui subNovis solem non fenrot,arct, vetermn, ut Maenianorum,umbram secutus est" (Acad, it.upjears that the A'oroe, being exx»*rfmust have been on the northern <J