OCR Output CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 1-13 CHAP. VII, The Ladies mourn for Brutus a whole year. ./\FTER this desperate engagement, Tarquin and hisEtrurians were seized with such a'panic, that giving overhis design as impracticable, the two armies ofthe Yejen-tes and Tarquinienses, made the best of their way, in thenight-time, to their respective homes. Or this battle also strange stories are reported; that aloud voice, which they imagined to be Sylvanus's, washeard frdm the forest of Arsia, in the dead of night, pro­nouncing these'words, " The Etrurians Dave lost one"man in the battle more than the Romans: The Ro-"mans are masters of the field." One thing, however,is certain, that the Romans left the field as conquerors,and the Etrurians with all the marks of a defeat. For,after the light appeared, and not a man of the enemyto be seen, rublius Valerius, ,the consul, gathered up thespoils, and returned in triumph to Rome. He buried'his colleague, with all the poiup, at that time, possible.But a much greater compliment was paid to his memory,in the public mourning of the city, particularly remark­able from this consideration, that the ladies mourned forhim a complete )'ear, as for apparent, to shew their re­spect for the bold avenger of their sex's honour. - Though the surviving consul had been very popular,yet so fickle are the minds of the muttitude, that he notonly fell under their jealousy and resentment, but waseven charged with the most odious crimes. Reportswere spread, that he aspired at sovereignty, because he"had not chosen a colleague in the room of Brutus, andwas building a house on the upper Velia, where, fromits height and situation, it would be an impregnable for­tress. As these things were become common topics of con­versation, and gaining credit, they gave the consul nolittle pain; wherefore having called a council of the peo­ple, he came down to die assembly with his fasces low-"ered. Nothing could have pleased the people mere, 'hanto see the ensigns of authority lowered to them; as it L