OCR Output CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of cavalry, which adopted the name of their benefactor,and supported in the Persian wars the glory of their an­cestors. But these rare exceptions, the reward of birthi or valour, are insufficient to explain the fate of a nation,whose numbers, before a short and bloodless war,amounted to more than six hundred thousand persons.After the exile of their king and nobles, the servile crowdmight purchase their safety, by abjuring their character,religion, and language; and their degenerate posteritywould be insensibly mingled with the common herd ofAfrican subjects. Yet even in the present age, and inthe heart of the Moorish tribes, a curious traveller hasdiscovered the white complexion and long flaxen hair ofa northern race ;m and it was formerly believed, that theboldest of the Vandals fled beyond the power, or eventhe knowledge, of the Romans, to enjoy their solitaryfreedom on the shores of the Atlantic ocean." Africahad been their empire, it became their prison; nor couldthey entertain a hope, or even a wish, of returning tothe banks of the Elbe, where their brethren, of a spiritless adventurous, still wandered in their native forests.It was impossible for cowards to surmount the barriersof unknown seas and hostile barbarians: it was impos­sible for brave men to expose their nakedness and defeatbefore the eyes of their countrymen, to describe thekingdoms which they had lost, and to claim a share ofthe humble inheritance, which, in a happier hour, theyhad almost unanimously renounced." In the countrybetween the Elbe and the Oder, several populous villagesof Lusatia are inhabited by the Vandals: they still pre­serve their language, their customs, and the purity of m Shaw, p. 59. Vet since Procopius (lib. 2. o. 13.) speaks of a people of mountAtlas, as already distinguished by white bodies and yellow hair, the phenomenon(which is likewise visible in the Andes of Peru, Buffon, tom. 3. p. 504.) may natu­rally be ascribed to the elevation of the ground and the temperature ofthe air. » The geographer of Ravenna (lib. 3. c. 11. p. 129—131. Paris, 1688.) describesIhe Mauritania Gaditana, (opposite to Cadiz,) uhi gens Vandaloram, a Belisariode-victa in Africa, fugit, et nunquamcomparnit.' ° A single voice had protested, and Genserio dismissed, without a formal answer,ihe Vandals of Germany: but those of Africa derided his prudence, and effected todespise the poverty of their forests. (Procopius, Vandal, lib. 1. c. 22.)