OCR Output lyviii A Survey of the History. gin its operations. In the mean time, the Athenians are tobe amused with embassies and negotiations merely to gaintime and save appearances. Frivolous they really are, butour author minutely details them, as they give him an op­portunity of introducing some notable passages relating toCylon, Pausanias, and Themistocles. He then shifts thescene to Athens; and introduces Pericles, the most com­manding orator, the greatest general, the most consummatestatesman, and at this time prime minister of the republic—introduces Pericles, I say, in the assembly of the people, togive them an insight into the schemes of their enemies, anda plan for their own conduct; to encourage them to a braveand steady resistance, in strict adherence to such methods,as in the end will infallibly not barely secure but aggrandizetheir State. The thoughts in this speech of Pericles are so grand, sonervous, so emphatically and concisely just, that if the rea­der be not immediately struck into an adequate conceptionof them, I know no method of opening his eyes or enlarginghis understanding. He says but little, but says every thingin that little. He demolisheth all the assertions of the Co­rinthians in their last speech at Sparta, as if he had heardthem speak. Perhaps Thucydides here hath not sufficientlyconcealed his art in writing. But the speech is intirely incharacter, compleatly suited to the heart and hsad andmouth of Pericles. Pericles, I observe it with pleasure, isan Englishman both in heart and judgment. England hathadhered and will adhere to the lessons which Athens ne­glected and forgot—" Of vast consequence indeed," (says thisenlightened statesman,) " is the dominion of the sea. But," consider it with attention. For, were we seated on an" island," (as the force of his argument evidently implies,)" we could never be subdued. And now you ought to think," that our present situation is nearly as possible the same,." and so to evacuate your houses and lands in Attica, and" to confine your defence to the sea." If this can need a