OCR Output 434 ROMAN EMPIRE. mand and failed in the attempt, was led about as ^prisonerin the camp of the Arabian general. The insurgents hadtrusted to his discontent and revenge; he disdained theiroffers and revealed their designs. In the hour of danger,the grateful Akbah unlocked his fetters, and advised himto retire; he chose to die under the banner of his rival.Embracing as friends and martyrs, they unsheathed theirscimitars, broke their scabbards, and maintained an ob­stinate combat till they fell by each other's side on thelast of their slaughtered countrymen. The third generalor governor of Africa, Zubeir, avenged and encounteredthe fate of his predecessor. He vanquished the nativesin many battles; he was overthrown by a powerful army,which Constantinople had sent to the relief of Carthage.Founda- fr ^ac^ keen the frequent practice of the Moor-tion of ish tribes to join the invaders, to share the plun- Cairoan, PI/..I » i i . A. D.ero der, to protess the faith, and to revolt to their sa-~ 67a' vage state of independence and idolatry, on thefirst retreat or misfortune of the Moslems. The prudenceof Akbah had proposed to found an Arabian colony inthe heart of Africa; a citadel that might curb the levityof the barbarians, a place of refuge to secure, against theaccidents of war, the wealth and the families of the Sa­racens. With this view, and under the modest title ofthe station of a caravan, he planted this colony in thefiftieth year of the Hegira. In its present decay, Cai-roanq still holds the second rank in the kingdom of Tunis,from which it is distant about fifty miles to the south;'its inland situation, twelve miles westward of the sea,has protected the city from the Greek and Sicilian fleets.When the wild beasts and serpents were extirpated, when i The foundation of Cairoan is mentioned by Ockley; (Hist, of the Saracens,vol. 2. p. 189. 130.) and the situation, mosch, &c. of the city, are described by LeoAfricanns, (fol. 75.) Marmol,(torn. 2. p. flSS.) and Shaw. (p. 115.) 'A portentous, though frequent, mistake has been the confounding, from 3 slightsimilitude of name, the Cyrene of the Greeks, and the Cairoan of the Arabs, twocities which are separated by an interval of a thousand miles along the sea-coastThe great ThUanns has not escaped this fault, the less excusable, as it is connectedwith a formal and elaborate description of Africa. (Historiar. lib. 7. c. 9. in torn. 1.p. ?40. edit. Buckley.)