OCR Output CHAP. L. 345 were subdued or seduced by his crafty rival; and thestroke of fanaticism which was aimed against -the threechiefs of the nation, was fatal only to the cousin of Ma­homet. In the temple of Mecca, three Charegites orenthusiasts discoursed of the disorders of the church andstate ; they soon agreed, that the deaths of Ali, of Moa-wiyah, and of his friend Amrou, the viceroy of Egypt,would restore the peace and unity of religion. Each ofthe assassins chose his victim, poisoned his dagger, de­voted his life, and secretly repaired to the scene*of action.Their resolution was equally desperate; but the firstmistook the person of Amrou, and stabbed the deputywho occupied his seat; the prince of Damascus wasdangerously hurt by the second; the lawful caliph, inthe mosch of Cufa, received a mortal wound from thehand of the third. He expired in the sixty-third yearof his age, and mercifully recommended to his children,that they would dispatch the murderer by a single stroke.The sepulchre of Ali° was concealed from the tyrants ofthe house of Ommiyah,p but in the fourth age of theHegira, a tomb, a temple, a city, arose near the ruins ofCufa.q Many thousands of the Schiites repose in holyground at the feet of the vicar of God; and the desert isvivified by the numerous and annual visits of the Per­sians, who esteem their devotion not less meritorious thanthe pilgrimage of Mecca. Reign of The persecutors of Mahomet usurped the in-M^^'heritance of his children; and the championsor 66i— of idolatry became the supreme heads of his re­ligion and empire. The opposition of Abu So­ • Abulfeda, a modem Sonnite, relates the different opinions concerning thehutiiil of AH, but adopts the sepulchre of Cufa, hodie fam& numeroque religioseirequentantium celebraturn. This number is reckoned by Niebuhr to amount an­nually to (wo thousand of the dead, and five thousand of the living, (torn.*,p. 208, 209.) P All the tyrants of Persia, from Adhad el Dowlat (A. D. 977, d'Herbelot, p. 58,59. 95.) to Nadir Shah, (A.D. 1743, Hist, de Nadir Shah, torn. 9. p. 155.) haveenriched the tomb of Ali with the spoils of the people. The dome is copper, witha bright and massy gilding, which glitters to the sun at the distance of many a mile. i The city of Meshed Ali, five or six miles from the ruins of Cufa, and onehundred and twenty to the south of Bagdad, is of the size and form of the modernJerusalern. Meshed Hosein, larger and more populous, is at the distance of thirtymiles.