OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 71 and Armenians, who forgot their disputes, and mingledtheir tears over the grave of an enemy. The sect whichwas honoured by the virtues of Abulpharagius, appears,however, to sink below the level of their Nestorianbrethren. The superstition of the Jacobites is moreabject, their fasts more rigid,q their intestine divisionsare more numerous, and their doctors (as far as I canmeasure the degrees of nonsense) are more remote fromthe precincts of reason. Something may possibly beallowed for the rigour of the Monophysite theology ;rmuch more for the superior influence of the monasticorder. In Syria, in Egypt, in Ethiopia, the Jacobitemonks have ever been distinguished by the austerity oftheir penance and the absurdity of their legends. Aliveor dead they are worshipped as the favourites of theDeity; the crosier of bishop and patriarch is reservedfor their venerable hands; and they assume the govern­ment of men, while they are yet reeking with the habitsand prejudices of the cloister. in.THE ^' ^n the sty^e of t^e oriental Christians,the Monothelites of every age are describedunder the appellation of Maronites,* a namewhich has been insensibly transferred from a hermit toa monastery, from a monastery to a nation. Maron, asaint or savage of the fifth century, displayed his reli­gious madness in Syria; the rival cities of ApameaandEmesa disputed his relics, a stately church was erectedon his tomb, and six hundred of his disciples unitedtheir solitary cells on the banks of the Orontes. Onthe controversies of the incarnation, they nicely threaded i This excessive abstinence is censored by La Croze, (p. 352.) and even by theSyrian Assemannus, (torn. 1. p. 226. torn. 2. p. 304, 305.) 'The state of the Monophysites is excellently illustrated in a dissertation at thebeginning of the second volume of Assemannus, which contains one hundred andforty-two pages. The Syriac Chronicle of Gregory Bar-Hebraus, or Abulphara­gius, (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 321—463.) pursues the double series of the Nes­torian Catholics, and the maphrians of the Jacobites. 'The synonymous use of the two words may be proved from Eutychius, (An­na1, torn. Z. p. 191. 207. 333.) and many similar passages which may be found inthe methodical table of Pocock. He was not actuated by any prejudice againsttiie Maronites of the tenth century; and we may believe a Mclchite, whose testi­mony is confirmed by the Jacobins and Latins.