OCR Output 104 LIVY. is generally the case, dismayed by the fall of theirleader, but rather roused to fury. All who were withinreach darted their weapons at Aulins, who incautiouslypushed forward among the enemy's troops; but thechief share of the honor of revenging the death of theSamnite general was reserved for his brother, who,urged by rage and grief, dragged down the victoriousmaster of the horse from his seat, and slew him. Ashe fell in the midst of their troops, the Samnites werealso near keeping possession of his body: but the Ro­mans instantly dismounting, the Samnites were obligedto do the same; and thus were lines formed suddenly,and a battle began on foot, round the bodies of the ge­nerals, in which the Romans had manifestly the advan­tage ; and recovering the body of Aulius, carried itback in triumph to the camp, with hearts filled with amixture of joy and grief. The Samnites having losttheir commander, and made a trial of their strength inthis contest between the cavalry, left Saticula, whichthey despaired of relieving, and returned to the siegeof Plistia: within a few days after which the Romansgot possession of Saticula by capitulation, and theSamnites of Plistia by force. 23. The seat of the war was then changed. The le­gions were led away from Samnium and Apulia toSora. This city had revolted to the Samnites, and putto death the Roman colonists. The Roman army hav­ing arrived here first, by forced marches, with the pur­pose of revenging the murder of their countrymen, andrecovering possession of the colony, and the scouts whowere scattered about the roads bringing intelligence,one after another, that the Samnites were following atno great distance, they marched to meet the enemy,and at Lautulae fought them with doubtful success.Neither loss nor flight on either side, but the night,separated the combatants, uncertain whether they werevictorious or defeated. I find in some historians thatthe Romans were worsted in this battle, and that hereQuintus Aulius, the master of the borse, fell. CaiusFabius, substituted master of the horse in the room of