OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 451 rogues, in Terence again, as a rule, among none but honestmen; if occasionally a leno is plundered or a young mantaken to the brothel, it is done with a moral intent, possiblyout of brotherly love or to deter the boy from frequentingimproper haunts. In the Plautine pieces there predomi­nates the characteristic antagonism of the tavern to thehouse; everywhere wives are visited with abuse, to the de­light of all husbands temporarily emancipated and not quitesure of an amiable salutation at home. In the comediesof Terence there prevails not a more moral, but a morebecoming conception of the feminine nature and of marriedlife. As a rule, they end with a virtuous marriage or ifpossible with two—just as it was the glory of Menanderthat he had compensated for every seduction by a marriage.The eulogies of a bachelor life, which are so frequent inMenander, are repeated by his Roman remodeller only withcharacteristic shyness,* whereas the lover in his agony,the tender husband at the accouchement, the loving sisterby the death-bed in the Eunuchus and the Andria are verygracefully delineated ; in the Hecyra there even appears at theclose as a delivering angel a virtuous courtesan, likewise agenuine Menandrian figure, which the Roman public, it istrue, very properly hissed. In Plautus the fathers through­out only exist for the purpose of being jeered and swindledby their sons; with Terence in the Heautontimorumenos thelost son is reformed by the wisdom of his father, and, as ingeneral he is full of excellent instructions as to education, sothe point of the best of his pieces, the Adelphi, turns onfinding the right mean between the too liberal trainingof the uncle and the too rigorous training of the father.Plautus writes for the great multitude and gives utteranceto profane and sarcastic speeches, so far as the censorship ofthe stage at all allowed; Terence on the contrary describesit as his aim to please the good and, like Menander, tooffend nobody. Plautus is fond of vigorous, often noisy dia­logue, and his pieces require the liveliest play of gesture inthe actors; Terence confines himself to "quiet conversa­tion." The language of Plautus abounds in burlesque turnsand verbal witticisms, in alliterations, in comic coinages ofnew terms, Aristophanic combinations of words, slang ex- * Micio in the Adelphi (i. I) praises his good fortune in life, more par­ticularly because he has never had a wife, " which those (the Greeks) reckona piece of good fortune."