OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 35$ adjoined to the new work erected in the Piræus, andkept it intirely in their own custody. Here they obligedall the citizens to lodge what corn they already had,and all that should hereafter be imported, and here on­ly to expose it to sale and to vend it. These proceedings had for a long time drawn sharp1insinuations from Theramehes; arid, when the embassyreturned from Lacedæmon without bringing to anymariner of issue a general accommodation for the wholeiof the Std(et he averred, that ** by this new work the** safety of the city toas visibly endangered." Forfrom Peloponnesus, at this instant of time, at the rex.quest of the Eubœans, no less than forty-two fail of (hipswere on the coast of Laconia; some of which were Ita­lian, from Tarentum and from Locri, and some Sici­lian; and all were now bound sor Eubœa. At thehead of this equipment was Hegesandridas, a Spartan,the son of Hegesander. Theramenes maintained, that"it was set out less for Eubœa! thdri for those who"were now fortifying at Eetiorieia j ants, unless we"stand upon our guard, they will surprise and corh-"plete the rilin of Athens." There was really some­thing in the conduct of the" rrien he accused to counte­nance this charge, nor was it merely thev Outcry of slan­der. Those who now composed the oligarchy wereprincipally desirous to preserve in their hands the whole.appenage of the republic j if this were impracticable,to secure the shipping and walls, and subsist with inde­pendence; but, should they be unable to compass this,rather than fall the first victims to the democracy re-esta­blished, to let in the enemy; and, resigning their ship­ping and fortifications, to make any terms whatever fortheState, provided they could obtain security for theirown persons. They accelerated, therefore, this nev^work; which was lo contrived as to have posterns, andsally-ports, and passages enow to let in the enemy; andthey proceed with all imaginable dispatch, in order tooutstrip prevention. A a 4 Hitherto,