OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. he had enjoyed them without guilt; he might resignthem without a sigh, and calmly disdain the impotentmalice of his enemies, who had left him happiness, sincethey had left him virtue. From the earth, Boethiusascended to heaven in search of the supreme good; ex­plored the metaphysical labyrinth of chance and destiny,of prescience and free-will, of time and eternity; andgenerously attempted to reconcile the perfect attributesof the Deity, with the apparent disorders of his moraland physical government. Such topics of consolation,so obvious, so vague, or so abstruse, are ineffectual tosubdue the feelings of human nature. Yet the sense ofmisfortune may be diverted by the labour of thought;and the sage who could artfully combine, in the samework, the various riches of philosophy, poetry, and elo­quence, must already have possessed the intrepid calm­ness, which he affected to seek. Suspense, the worst ofevils, was at length determined by the ministers of death,who executed, and perhaps exceeded, the inhuman man­date of Theodoric. A strong cord was fastened roundthe head of Boethius, and forcibly tightened, till his eyesalmost started from their sockets; and some mercy maybe discovered in the milder torture of beating him withclubs till he expired/ But his genius survived to diffusea ray of knowledge over the darkest ages of the Latinworld; the writings of the philosopher were translatedby the most glorious of the English kings,8 and the thirdemperor of the name of Otho removed to a more ho­nourable tomb the bones of a Catholic saint, who, fromhis Arian persecutors, had acquired the honours of mar­tyrdom, and the fame of miracles.11 In the last hours of f He was executed in Agro Calventiano (Calvenzanp, between Marignano andPavia), Anonym. Vales, p. 7J3, by order of Eusebius coont of Hcinnm or Pavia.The place of his confinement is styled the baptistery, an edifice and name peculiar tocathedrals. It is claimed by the perpetual tradition of the church of Pavia. Thetower of Boethius subsisted till the year 1584, and the draught is yet preserved.(Tiraboschi, torn. 3. p. 47. 48.) . s See the Biographica Britanuioa, Alfred, torn. 1. p. 80. second edition. Thework is still more honourable, if performed under the learned eye of Alfred by hisforeign and domestic doctors. For the reputation of Boethius in the middle ages,consult Bruckerl. (Hist. Crit. Philosopb. torn. 3. p. 565, 566.) * The inscription on bis new tomb was composed by the preceptor of Otho the