OCR Output .-> Chap. XXII. WAR THE QF JEWS. 443 <* war with the Romans. Now in Jerusalem the high-priestAnanus, and as many of the men of power as were not in the in­terest of the Romans, both repaired the walls, and made a greatmany warlike instruments, insomuch that in all parts of thecity darts and all sorts of armour were upon the anvil. Al­though the multitude of the young men were engaged in exer­cises, without any regularity, and all places were full of tu­multuous doings: but the moderate sort were exceedingly sad,and a great many there were who, out of the prospect they hadof the calamities that were coming upon them, made great la-mentations. There were also such omens observed as were un­derstood to be forerunners of evils, by such as loved peace, butwere by those that kindled thejwar interpreted so as to suit theirown inclinations ; and the very state of the city, even b.efore theRomans came against it, was that of a place doomed to destruc­tion. However, Ananus's concern was this, to lay aside, for awhile, the preparations for the war, and to persuade the seditiousto consult their own interest, and to restrain the madness of thosethat had the name of zealots ; but their violence was too hardfor him, and what end he came to we shall relate hereafter. 2. But as for the Acrabbene tpparchy, Simon, the son ofGioras, got a great number of those that were fond of innova*tions together, and betook himself to ravage the country; nordid he only harrass the rich mens houses, but tormented theirbodies, and appeared openly and before-hand to affect tyranny i^his government. And when an army was sent against him byAnanus, and the other rulers, he and his band retired to therobbers that were at Masada, and staid there, and plundered thecountry of Idumea^with them, till both Ananus, and his otheradversaries were slain, and until the rulers of that country werego afflicted with the multitude of those that were slain, and withthe continual ravage of what they had, that they raised an army,*ind put garrisons into th? villages, to secure them from thoseinsults; and in this state were the affairs of Judea at that tipne. PUP or VoLUM? THIRD.