OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 15 day, at the very same hour in which the king came to him, theyshould have great plenty of food, and that two seah of barleyshould be sold in the market for a shekel, and a seah of fineflour should be sold for a shekel. This prediction made Jo-ram, and those that were present, very joyful, for they did notscruple believing what the prophet said, on account of the expe­rience they had of the truth of his former predictions ; and theexpectation of plenty made the want they were in that day, withthe uneasiness that accompanied it, appear a light thing to them:but the captain of the third band, who was a friend of the king's,and on whose hand the king leaned, said, "Thou talkest of in-"credible things, O prophet! for as it is impossible for God to"pour down torrents of barley, or fine flour, out of heaven, so"is it impossible that what thou sayest should come to pass."To which the prophet made this reply, "Thou shalt see these"things come to pass, but thou shalt not be in the least a par-"taker of them." 5. Now what Elisha had thus foretold, came to pass in themanner following: There was a * law at Samaria, that thosethat had the leprosy, and whose bodies were not cleansed fromit, should abide without the city; and there were four men thaton this account abode before the gates, while nobody gave themany food, by reason of the extremity of the famine: and as theywere prohibited from entering into the city by the law, and theyconsidered that if they were permitted to enter, they should mi­serably perish by the famine, as also, that if they staid wherethey were, they should suffer in the same manner, they resolvedto deliver themselves up to the enemy, that in case they shouldspare them, they should live, but if they should be killed, thatwould'be an easy death. So when they had confirmed this theirresolution, they came by night to the enemies' camp. Now Godhad begun to affright and disturb the Syrians, and to bring thenoise of chariots and armour to their ears, as though an armywere coming upon them, and had made them suspect that it wascoming nearer and nearer to them. In short, they were in sucha dread of this army, that they left their tents, and ran togetherto Benhadad, and said, That "Joram the king of Israel had hired"for auxiliaries, both the king of Egypt and the king of the"islands, and led them against them, for they heard the noise of"them as they were coming." And Benhadad believed whatthey said (for there came the same noise to his ears as well as itdid to theirs), so they fell into a mighty disorder and tumult,and left their horses and beasts in their camp, with immense * This law of the Jews, for the exclusion of lepers out of the camp in the"ilderness, and out of the cities in Juik-a, is a well known one, Lev, xiii. 46. andSum. v. 1—4.