OCR Output 326 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX. fear of being accused, if they should go out before the rest;for they should not be sentenced according to the real intentionwith which they went out, but according to the supposals of theaccusers, and of the judges. 17. But now a multitude of Germans had surrounded thetheatre with their swords drawn ; all the spectators looked fornothing but death, and at every one's coming in a fear seizedupon them, as if they were to be cut in pieces immediately ; andin great distress they were, as neither having courage enough togo out of the theatre, nor believing themselves safe from dangersif they tarried there. And when the Germans came upon them,die cry was so great, that the theatre rang again with the entrea­ties of the spectators to the soldiers, pleading that they were en­tirely ignorant of every thing that related to such seditious con­trivances, and that if there were any sedition raised, they knewnothing of it; they therefore begged that they would spare them,and not punish those that had not the least hand in such boldcrimes as belonged to other persons, while they neglected tosearch after such as had really done whatsoever it be that hathbeen done. Thus did these people appeal to God, and deploretheir infelicity with shedding of tears, and beating their faces,and said every thing that the most imminent danger, and the ut­most concern for their lives, could dictate to them. This brakethe fury of the soldiers, and made them repent of what theyminded to do to the spectators, which Would have been thegreatest instance of cruelty. And so it appeared to even thesesavages, when they had once fixed the heads of those that wereslain with Asprenas upon the altar ; at which sight the specta­tors were sorely afflicted, both upon the consideration of the dig­nity of the persons, and out of a commiseration of their suf­ferings ; nay, indeed, they were almost in as great disorder atthe prospect of the danger themselves were in, seeing it was stilluncertain whether they should entirely escape the like calamity.Whence it was, that such as thoroughly and justly hated Caius,could yet no way enjoy the pleasure of his death, because theywere themselves in jeopardy of perishing together with him ;nor had they hitherto any firm assurance of surviving. 18. There was at this time, one Euaristus Arruntius, a pub­lic crier in the market, and therefore of a strong and audiblevoice, who vied in wealth with the richest of the Romans, andwas able to do what he pleased in the city, both then and after­ward. This man put himself into the most mournful habit hecould, although he had a greater hatred against Caius than anyone else, his fear and his wise contrivance to gain his safetytaught him so to do, and prevailed over his present pleasure ; so