OCR Output A. D. 21.] OF TACITCS. 171 disciplined troops sat down before Philippopolis (acity founded by Philip of Macedon,) and there heldRhsemetalces closely besieged. XXXIX. On the first intelligence of this revolt,Publius Velleius, who commanded an army in theneighbourhood, sent a detachment of horse and lightinfantry in pursuit of the insurgents, who spread them­selves over the country, either with a view to plun­der, or to reinforce their numbers. He himself marchedin force to raise the siege. He was successful inevery quarter: the freebooters were put to the sword;and dissensions breaking out among the besiegers,Rhsemetalces made a sally in the moment when theRoman army came up to his relief. The barbariansabandoned the place. Of these events, however pros­perous, there is no room to speak in the pomp ofmilitary language: a rabble of savages, without dis­cipline, and almost without weapons, cannot be calledan army; nor was that a battle, where the enemy wascut to pieces, without the effusion of Roman blood. XL. In the course of the same year a rebellionbroke out among the cities of Gaul, occasioned by theload of debt that oppressed the common people. Theprincipal leaders of the revolt were Julius Floras andJulius Sacrovir; the former a man of weight amongthe Treveri, and the latter among the jEduans. Theywere both of illustrious birth. Their ancestors haddeserved well of the Romans, and, for their services,received the freedom of the city, at a time when thatprivilege was rare, and the reward of merit only. Bythese incendiaries secret meetings were held; thefierce and daring were drawn into the league, toge­ther with such as languished in poverty, or, beingconscious of their crimes, had nothing left but to growdesperate in guilt. Florus undertook to kindle theflame of rebellion in Belgia; and Sacrovir to rousethe neighbouring Gauls. The plan thus settled, theycaballed in private, held frequent meetings, and leftno topic untouched that could inflame the minds ofthe people. " Tributes," they said, " were levied" with unabating rigour; usurious interest oppressed" the poor, and their haughty masters continued to