OCR Output 254 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. thradatic the fifth century, after the Italian confederation was shat­tered, to force Rome with their own hand to recognize theircountry's independence. But this resolution of the bravestdespair made not much change in the main result; althoughthe mountain-war in Samnium and Lucania might still re­quire some time and some sacrifices, the insurrection wasnevertheless already substantially at an end.Outbreak In the meanwhile, certainly, there had occurred a freshof the Mi- complication, for the Asiatic difficulties had rendered it im­peratively necessary to declare war against Mithradatesking of Pontus, and for next year (666) to assign one consuland a consular army to Asia Minor. Had this war brokenout a year earlier, the contemporary revolt of the half ofItaly and of the most important of the provinces would haveoccasioned immense peril to the Roman state. Now that themarvellous good fortune of Rome had once more been evincedin the rapid collapse of the Italian insurrection, this Asiaticwar just beginning was, notwithstanding "b^its being mixedup with the expiring Italian struggle, not of a really danger­ous character; and the less so, because Mithradates in his ar­rogance refused the invitation of the Italians that he shouldafford them direct assistance. Still it was in a high degreeinconvenient. The times had gone by, when they withouthesitation carried on simultaneously an Italian and a trans­marine war; the state-chest was already after two years ofwar utterly exhausted, and the formation of a new army inaddition to that already in the field seemed scarcely prac­ticable. But they resorted to such expedients as they could.The sale of the sites that had from ancient times (i.115) re­mained unoccupied on and near the citadel to persons desirousof building, which yielded 9000 pounds of gold (£360,000),furnished the requisite pecuniary means. No new army wasformed, but that which was under Sulla in Campania wasdestined to embark for Asia, as soon as the state of thingsin southern Italy should allow its departure; which mightbe expected, from the progress of the army operating in thenorth under Strabo, to happen soon.88. So the third campaign in 666 began amidst favourable Ihird cam- prospects for Rome. Strabo put down the last resistancepa,gn' which was still offered in the Abruzzi. In Apulia Cosconius'successor, Quintus Metellus Pius, son of the conqueror ofNumidia and not unlike his father in his strongly conserva­tive views as well as in military endowments, put an end to