OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APlOlT. 410 people of Rome: we also offer perpetual sacrifices for them;nor do we only offer them every day at the common expenseof all the Jews, but although we offer no other such sacrificesout of our common expenses, no not for our own children,yet do we this as a peculiar honor to the emperors, and tothem alone, while we do the same to no other person whom­soever.- And let this suffice for an answer in general toApion, as to what ho says with relation to the AlexandrianJews. 7. However, I cannot but admire those other authors whofurnished this man with such his materials; I mean Possido-nius and Apollonius [the son of] Molo,1 who, while they ac­cuse us for not worshipping the same gods whom others wor­ship, they think themselves not guilty of impiety when theytell lies of us, and frame absurd and reproachful stories aboutour temple ; whereas it is a most shameful thing for free mento forge lies on any occasion, and much more so to forge themabout our temple, which was so famous over all the world,and was preserved so sacred by us; for Apion hath the im­pudence to pretend, — " That the Jews placed an ass's headin their holy place ;" and he affirms, — " That this was dis­covered when Antiochus Epiphanes spoiled our temple, andfound that ass's head there made of gold, and worth a greatdeal of money." To this my first answer shall be this: —That had there been any such thing among us, an Egyptianought by no means to have thrown it in our teeth, since anass is not a more contemptible animal than ***2 and goats,and other such creatures, which among them are gods. But,besides this answer, I say farther, how comes it about thaApion does not understand this to be no other than a palpa­ble lie, and to be confuted by the thing itself as utterly in­credible ? For we Jews arc always governed by the samelaws, in which we constantly persevere; and although manymisfortunes have befallen our city, as the like have befallenothers, and although Theos [Epiphanes,] and Pompey the 1 Culled more properly Molo or Apollonius Halo, ns hereafter; for Apollo­nius, the son of Molo, was nnother person, as Strabo informs us, lib. xiv.' Furones in the Latin, which what animal it denotes does not now appear