OCR Output 242 NOTES. preface, as it were, is preserved—the principal part of the work, the history o:the Flavian Family, has perished. We cannot but mourn over the irreparableloss.* We feel, that we cannot afford to lose any thing from so instructiveand attractive a pen. Especially after wading through the chaotic and bloodyscenes in the reigns of Galba, Otho and Vitellius, we are unwilling to be de­nied the pleasure of reaching solid ground once more, and looking on thepeace, order and comparative happiness that spring up under the auspices ofVespasian and Titus, as they are painted by the same master hand. Thesiege of Jerusalem, with its amazing feats of valor and its more amazingscenes of calamity and suffering—what a subject for the pen of Tacitus! Wewould fain follow the beautiful and brilliant Titus through the glories of hismilitary triumphs to the brighter glories of his virtuous and happy, but tooshort reign. And we burn to see the fratricide and tyrant Domitian writhingunder the just vengeance of the prince at once of historians and of satirists. Such a period—with such characteristics as our author briefly and vividlysketches in his introductory chapters (1, 2. 3)—is not the most favorable to theexcitement of historical interest. The leading characters are for the mostpart both weak and wicked, at once odious and contemptible. And it is withextreme difficulty, that a history is made to sustain an interest, which doesnot attach to its leading characters. Still, as Tacitus intimates in the begin­ning of his third chapter, such a period is the very theatre for the display ofthe most heroic virtues in those private individuals who have the moral cour­age to breast the current of the times. And we shall find our historian's pagesadorned with biographical episodes and tributes of honor to many such noblesouls. The great Halicarnassian critic would condemn Tacitus, as he did Thu-cydides (Dion. Halicarn. Epis. ad Cn. Pomp.), for selecting a period so fruit­ful in disasters and disgrace to his country. But the historian is not re­sponsible for the events which he records, any more than the messenger is forthe news he bears. He may be a truer patriot at heart and may render moreimportant services to his country, who sets up beacons at the points of herdanger, than l,e who rears monuments on the fields of her triumph. Thepatriotism of Herodotus and Livy exults in the glory of their country; that ofThucydides and Tacitus mourns over her shame. The muse of the former isfull of buoyancy and hope—she advances in the animated though stately airof a triumphal march, and ever and anon is heard singing paeans. The museof the latter is grave, thoughtful and melancholy—she sits absorbed in sorrow­ful meditations and gloomy forebodings—or she moves- at a sad and solemnpace and utters " more hearselike harmonies than carols"—or now again, likeanother Cassandra, she starts up, as in a fit of prophetic phrensy, and poursforth wild and piercing cries of alarm. These warnings came too late for thesalvation of their countrymen: but the histories of the commotions and civilwars, which these great masters of their art have composed, are more in­structive to posterity, than all the foreign conquests and victories, whether ofGreece or Rome, which Herodotus and Livy have recorded. Inferior writers * The Medicean MS., which alone contains the first six books of the Annals,was found in a monastery of Westphalia, as late as the sixteenth century. Wouldthat we might still cherish the hope of recovering more or less of the lost decade»f the Histories.