OCR Output S3 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. "his solicitude by tumult and insurrection? If they" would still persist in the season of profound peace," to urge ,a claim never demanded even by the con-" querors in a civil war, why incur the guilt of rebel­lion ? why, in violation of all military discipline," urge their pretensions sword in hand? They might" depute their agents to treat with the prince; and, in" the presence of their general, they might give their" instructions on the spot." This proposal was ac­cepted ; with one voice they called out for the son ofBIebsus, then a military tribune. The young officerundertook the charge. His directions were to insistthat, at the expiration of sixteen years, the soldiershould be discharged from the service. That pointsettled, it would then be time to enumerate othergrievances. With this commission the general's sonwent forward on his journey. A calm succeeded, andlasted for some days. But the minds of the soldierswere still in agitation: their pride was roused; the ge­neral's son was now the orator of the army; and force,it was manifest, had at length extorted, what by gen­tle measures could never be obtained. XX. Meanwhile, the detached companies which be­fore the disturbance had been sent to Nauportum torepair the roads, the bridges, and other military works,having heard of the commotions in the camp, seizedthe colours ; and, after ravaging the adjacent villages,plundered Nauportum, a place little inferior to a mu­nicipal town. They treated the centurions with de­rision; from derision they proceeded to opprobriouslanguage; and, in the end, to blows and open violence.Aufidenus Rufus, the prefect of the camp, was thechief object of their fury : they dragged him out of hiscarriage; and, laying a heavy load on his back,obliged him to march in the foremost ranks, askinghim with contemptuous insolence how he liked hisburden, and the length of his journey ? Rufus hadrisen from a common man to the rank of centurion,and was afterwards made prsefect of the camp. Inthat station he endeavoured to recall the rigour ofancient discipline. A veteran in the service, and longinured to fatigue, he was strict and rigorous in his