OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 461 prudence, were gradually framed in the three first chap.reigns of that prosperous dynasty. The art of agri- XLLculture had amused the leisure, and exercised thepens, of the best and wisest of the ancients; and theirchosen precepts are comprised in the twenty books ofthe Geoponics * of Constantine. At his command,the historical examples of vice and virtue were me­thodised in fifty-three books t, and every citizen mightapply to his contemporaries or himself the lesson orthe warning of past times. From the august charac­ter of a legislator, the sovereign of the East descends'to the more humble office of a teacher and a scribe;and if his successors and subjects were regardless ofhis paternal cares, tee may inherit and enjoy the.ever­lasting legacy. A closer survey will indeed reduce the value of the Their jm-gift, and the gratitude of posterity: in the possession peof these Imperial treasures we may still implore ourpoverty and ignorance; and the fading glories oftheir authors will be obliterated by indifference orcontempt. The Basilics will sink to a broken copy,a partial and mutilated version in the Greek lan­guage, of the laws of Justinian; but the sense of theold civilians is often superseded by the influence ofbigotry. The royal authors of the Geoponics weremore seriously employed in expounding the preceptsof the destroying art, which has been taught, sincethe days of Xenophon, as the art of heroes and kings. Civile di Napoli, tom. i. p. 450—458), as historical civilians, may be usefullyconsulted. Forty-one hooks of this Greek code have been published, with a Latinversion, by Charles Annibal Fabrottus (Paris, 1647), in seven tomes in folio ; fourother books have since been discovered, and are inserted in Gerard Meerman'sNovus Thesaurus Juris Civ. et Canon, tom. v. Of the whole work, the sixtybooks, John Leunclavius has printed (Basil, 1575), an eclogue or synopsis. Thehundred and thirteen novels, or new laws, of Leo, may be found in the CorpusJuris Civilis. • I have used the last and best edition of the Geoponics (by Nicolas Niclas,Leipsic, 1781, 2 vols, in octavo). I read in the preface*, that the same emperorrestored the long-forgotten systems of rhetoric and philosophy. f Of these fifty three books, or titles, only two have been preserved and printed: deLegationibus (by Fulvius Ursinus, Antwerp, 1582, and Daniel Hseschelius, August.Vindel. 1603), and de Virtutibus etVitiis(by Henry Valesius, or de Valois,Paris, 1634).