OCR Output »4« NOTES ON THE Moon therefore, as well as many other divinities, is celebratedby the Orphic theologists as both male and female, perhaps Panis the masculine pow er of the moon: and this opinion is strength­ened by the following curious passage from Stephanus deUrbibus,in the article Panos. "There is (fays he) a great statue ofPan, with its private parts raised in a straight direction to thelength of seven singers. The right hand of the statue holdswhips elevated towards the moon, of which luminary they fayPan is an image." c$-» °t w itov ayaXjua piyx, efiiaxot <x*< t«ai^oioy »; iwla $ax\v7.ois. iTalMI Tl /xafi)a; TV ci^tx fftXtjkii r,; niu>.tt Qcuw nta.i to» Uam. Let the reader, however, carefully remem­ber that the Pan seen by the Lacedæmonian messenger was adsemoniacal power, and not the divinity of this name. Page 82. Æschylus was the first that represented these divinitietwith snakes in their hair.~] Those who are of opinion that the Or­phic hymns are spurious compositions, will doubtless imaginethat their opinion is indisputably confirmed by the prtsent pas­sage: for the furies in these hymns* are called opKKrXoxajKoi, orfnaly-haired; and consequently it may be said, they must havebeen written posterior to the time of Æschylus, if what Pausa-nias asserts be true. It must, however, be remembered, that Æs­chylus was accused of inserting in his tragedies things belongingto the mysteriesf; and I (hall produce some very strong argu­ments in the course of these notes, to prove that the Orphichymns which have come down to us, are the very hymns whichwere used in the Eleusinian mysteries. If this be the cafe, eitherPausanias is mistaken in what he asserts of Æschylus iq thisplace; or, which appears to me to be more probable, being a manreb'gioufly fearful of disclosing any particulars belonging to themysteries, he means that no one prior to Æschylus openly repre­sented the Furies with snakes in their hair; or, in other words,that Æschylus was the first prophane writer (as a Christian would • Vid. hym. 69. f Vid. Fabric. Bibljoth. torn. I. p. 606, express