OCR Output xxxiv On the Life of Thucydides. war, lay all the adjacent country waste. He must haveInarched under Pericles to retaliate on the territories of Me-gara, since the whole force of the State was obliged to takethe field on this occasion. He must have assisted at thepublic funeral solemnized in the winter for the first victimsof this war, and heard Pericles speak in honour of the deadand the living, and make his countrymen enamoured of theirOwn laws and constitution. The plague broke out immedi­ately after this; we are absolutely certain he was then inAthens. He himself assures us of it. He was an eye­witness to all that horrid scene. He had the plague himself;and hath given a circumstantial detail of it. The war proceeds with vigor, and through a great varietyof events. Thucydides must have borne his share in theservice ; the particulars he haih not recorded. No man wasever less guilty of eg otism; he never mentions himself butwhen it is absolutely necessary. His next six years were cer­tainly employed in fighting and in writing; the latter washis passion, and the former his duty. In the forty-seventhyear of his age, he was joined in the command of an Athe­nian squadron and land-force on the coasts of Thrace. Hemight be assigned to this particular station, on account ofhis possessions and interest in this part of the world. It wasjudged at Athens, that he was best qualified to senx hiscountry in this department. The Lacedaemonian com­mander in Thrace dreaded his opposition. Let us wait alittle for the event: It is the most important passage in theLife of Thucydides. It was intirely on the authority of Plutarch, that Thucy­dides was asserted above to be a descendant from Miltiades,and in the mode of consanguinity to have inherited his fineestate in this part of the world. Marcellinus, who is forever jumbling and confounding facts, hath also made himmarry a Thracian lady, who brought him his gold-mines forher fortune. Mr. Hobbes is willing to reconcile the facts,and solves all the difficulty in a very plausible manner.