OCR Output 480 THE DECLINE AND FAIX chap. free people; and the code was almost perfect whenXLL this baseless fabric, the monument of pride and servi­tude, was for ever buried in the ruins of the empire *. rfStH. t^ most lofty titles» and tne most humble pos"peror. tures, which devotion has applied to the SupremeBeing, have been prostituted by flattery and fear tocreatures of the same nature with ourselves. Themode of adoration t, of falling prostrate on the ground,and kissing the feet of the emperor, was borrowedby Diocletian from Persian servitude; but it wascontinued and aggravated till the last age of theGreek monarchy. Excepting only on Sundays, whenit was waved, from a motive of religious pride, thishumiliating reverence was exacted from all who en­tered the royal presence, from the princes investedwith the diadem and purple, and from the ambassa­dors who represented their independent sovereigns,the caliphs of Asia, Egypt, or Spain, the kings ofFrance and Italy, and the Latin emperors of ancientRome. In his transaction of business, Liutprand,bishop of Cremona, asserted the free spirit of a Frank,and the dignity of his master Otho. Yet his sin­cerity cannot disguise the abasement of his first au-Reception dience. When he approached the throne, the birdssadors." of the golden tree began to warble their notes, whichwere accompanied by the roarings of the two lionsof gold. With his two companions, Liutprand wascompelled to bow and to fall prostrate; and thricehe touched the ground with his forehead. He arose;but in the short interval, the throne had been hoistedby an engine from the floor to the ceiling, the Iin­ * This sketch of honours and officers is drawn from George Codinus Curopa-lata, who survived the taking of Cons antinople by the Turks. His elaboratethough trifling work (de Officiis Ecclesise et Aula; C. P.) has been illustrated bythe notes of Goar, and the three books of Ureiser, a learned Jesuit. •f The respectful salutation of carrying the hand to the mouth, ad oi, is theroot of the Latin word, adoro, adorare. See our learned Selden (vol. iii. p. I -43—145—942), in his Titles of Honour. It seems, from the 1st books of Hero­dotus, to be of Persian origin.