OCR Output A. D. 15.] 51 OF TACITUS. lately raised, by hasty levies, on this side of the Rhine.He marched himself at the head of an equal legion­ary force, and double the number of auxiliaries. Onthe ruins of a fort, formerly built on Mount Taurusby his father Drusus, he raised a fortification, andproceeded by rapid marches against the Cattians. Tosecure his retreat, he left behind him Lucius Apro-nius, with orders to work at the roads, and embankthe rivers. The dryness of the season, uncommon inthose parts, and the low bed of waters in the rivers,favoured his expedition; but, before his return, the fallof heavy rains, and the overflow of torrents, mightlay the country under water. His arrival was so lit­tle expected by the Cattians, that their women andchildren were either taken prisoners, or put to thesword. The young and able-bodied made their escapeby swimming across the Adrana. From the oppositeliank they attemped to hinder a bridge from beingthrown over the river; but by a fierce discharge fromthe engines, and a volley of darts, they were drivenfrom their post. They offered terms of peace, butwithout success. Numbers submitted at discretion:the rest abandoned their villages, and fled for shelterinto the woods. The country round was laid waste;Mattium, the capital, was destroyed by fire; and theopen plains were made a desert. Germanicus marchedhis army back towards the Rhine, the barbarians neverdaring to harass the rear, as is their practice, whenpretending to retreat in a panic, they wheel about ona sudden, and return to the charge. The Cheruscansmeditated a sudden attack in favour of the Cattians;but Csecina, with an army of observation, spread sowarm an alarm, that the enterprise was dropt. TheMarsians, more bold and desperate, risked a battle,and were defeated. LVII. Germanicus, in a short time afterwards, re-'ceived a message from Segestes, imploring protectionfrom the fury of his countrymen, who held him closelybesieged. Arminius had been the adviser of the war,and was by consequence the idol of the people. In anation of savages, the man of fierce and turbulentspirit is sure, in times of commotion to be the leading