OCR Output 70G RHEGIUM. and Bruttium, laying waste those provinces on hismarch, and made himself master of Rhegium, fromwhence he tried to CTOSS over into Sicily, but, beingfrustrated in this attempt, retraced his steps as faras Consentia, where he died. (Hist. Misccll. xiii.p. 535.) Somewhat later it is described by Cas-nodorua as still a nourishing place ( Var. xii. 14),and was still one of the chief cities of Bruttium inthe days of l'aulus Diaconns. (Hist. Lang. ii. 17.)During the Gothic wars after the fall of the West­ern Empire, Rhegium bears a considerable part,and was a strong fortress, but it was taken byTotila in a. r>. 549, previous to his expedition toSicily. (Procop. B. G. i. 8, iii. 18,37, 38.) Itsubsequently fell again into the hands of the Greekemperors, and continued subject to them, with theexception of a short period when it was occupied bythe Saracens, until it passed under the dominion ofRobert Guiscard in a. d. 1060. The modern city ofJReggio is still a considerable place, with a popu­lation of about 10.000 souls, and is the capital ofthe province of Calabria Ultra; but it has sufferedseverely in modern times from earthquakes, havingbeen almost entirely destroyed in 1783, and againin great part overthrown in 1841. It has no re­mains of antiquity, except a few inscriptions, butnumerous coins, urns, mosaics, and other ancientrelics have been brought to light by excavations. Rhenium Wis celebrated in antiquity as the birth-plate of the lyric poet Ibycus, as well as that of Lycusthe historian, the father of Lycophron. (Suid.a. t\v\€ukos; Id. s. r, Avkos.) It gave birth also to the cele­brated sculptor Pythagoras (Diog. Lae'rt. viii. 1. § 47;Paus. vi. 4. § 4); and to several of the minor Pytha­gorean philosophers, whose names are enumeratedby lamblicbua (I'if. Pytk. 2G7), but none of theseare of much note. Its territory was fertile, andnoted for the excellence of its wines, which wereespecially esteemed for their salubrity. (Athen. i.p. 2G.) Cassiodorus describes it as well adaptedfur vines and olives, but not suited to corn. (Var.xii. 14.) Another production in which it excelledWIS its breed of mules, so that Anaxilas the despotwas repeatedly victor at the Olympic games withthe chariot drawn by mules (aTnrjrrj), and his sonLeophron obtained the same distinction. One ofthese victories was celebrated by Sinionides. (He-raclid. Polit. '25; Athen. i. p. 3 ; Pollux, Onomast.v. 75.) Rhegium itself was, as already mentioned, thetermination of the line of high-road which traversedthe whole length of Southern Italy from Capua tothe Sicilian strait, slid was first constructed by thepraetor Popilius in B.C. 134. (Orell. inter. 3308;Mommsen, Inscr. R. N. 6276; Ritschel, Mon. Epigr.pp. 11, 12.) But the most frequented place of passagefor crossing the strait to Messana was, in ancientas well as in modern times, not at Rhegium itself,but at a spot about 9 miles further N., which wasmarked by a column, and thence known by the nameofCoLUMNA RBSGIKA. (Itm. Ant. pp. 98, 106,111; Plin. iii. 5. s. 10; $ Pwyuw arv\h, Strab.v. p. 257.) The distance of this from Rhegium isgiven both by Pliny and Strabo at V2\ miles or 100stadia, and the latter places it only 6 stadia fromthe promontory of Caenys or Punta rf*:l Ptzzo. Itmust therefore have been situated in the neighbour­hood of the modern village of Villa San Giovanni,which is still the most usual place of passage. Butthe distance from Rhegium is overstated by bothgeographers, the Punta del Pczzv itself being less than 10 miles from Reggio. On u» fejlfl tsa)the inscription of La Polla (Forom PopJii) mthe distance from the place of ptsaare, w lues Jdesignates as "Ad Statuam," at only $ i(Mommsen, Inter. R. X. 6276 ) Yet it isbable that the spot meant is rally theboth cases, as from the strong current isstraits the place of embarkatioo most alwiyi Ibeen nearly the same. [L U. B.J1 fM COIN* OF RI1EGIIH. RHEGMA fFajVssa), the name of igone formed by the river Cydnas at 1mouth, about 5 stadia below Tsrsas; tstiants of this city used it as their P«ixiv. p. 672; Stadititm. Afar. Mao. lSs\Jwhere it is called 'Ptryfjuoi\ It. Hiem.r.\The two last authorities place the RbfcraSOsIfrom Tarsus, which may possibly refer tee"cular point of it, as the Rhegma wu «7<sive. [1*8R H E G MA. [ Epimarasitae.]RHEI'MEA (*P«o*«a, Bocih, Inter, sala town of Auranitis, as appears from to ifound by Burckhardt (Trartis, p. 69) it JLcbtn, situated three-quarters of an Imodern village of Rima-el-LvJ\f, where Ia building with a flat roof and three Ithe dead, with an inscription over the <3Inter. 4587 — 4589; comp. B»Tribes, p. 256.)RHEITHRUM. [Ithaca, p. 99,*.]RHEITI. [Attica, p. 328, a.]RHKNI. [Reml]RHEXEIA. [Dklos, p. 76a]RHENUS ('Pijvos), one of lh«Europe, is not so long as the Icommercial channel it in the 6rstcf iand as a political boundary it hasancient and modem times the most itier in Europe. The Rhine rises in'which belong to the gr >up of the*Switzerland, about 46° 3tf N. laL 1branches. The Vorder- Rhein and the Jmeet at Dlssentis, which is only a fe» Itheir respectire sources. The united (an east by north course to Rcickrmt*, <joined by the IIinter-JttsaB. Atwhich is below the junction of the jthe river becomes naviginorthern conrse to the Bodemttm or *statu, the Lac us Brigantinua or Valake consists of two porta, of whichpart or Inter tee, is about 30 fcetchief [art, called the Lake of Cot*of the Rhine from the Z~nUr*ee is inavigable as far as the Calls of »are not mentioned by any of the iIt is interrupted by a stnaJJer fall Iand there is a rapid near .below Lauftnburg. The course ts i