OCR Output SAUROMATAE. SAXA KUBBA. 925 Una (An. iii. 5. a. 9), and m crossed by the\.|us Wey, a few miles from its mouth, by a/>tr*taD*l the Pons Campanus, from its formingi» fnotier of that country. [E. H.B.] SAIWMATAE (ZawpWrou), probably the formntrb the root Samtat- took in the languages fromraits the information of the Greeks of the partsiotrt Olbiopolis was derived. It is the only formrcfid is Herodotus, who knows nothing of the laterm Sarmatae. When this latter term, however,*rt into use, Sauromatae, especially with the.*-ub writers, became archaic and poetical, or: tic This is the case in the line — "Ultra Samromatat, fugere hinc libet," &c. (Juv. Sat. ii. 1), ►Ifhewhere. Tie Greeks of the Black Sea would take thear» from either the Scythians or the Getae; and it pnoably to the language of the latter, that thersi belonged. Hence, it is a form of Samar-■. uken from one of the eastern dialects of■»u by the Greeks (possibly having passedJ-*u;h a Scythian medium as well) as opposed toraatae, which is from the western parts of theMM area, and adopted by the Humans. Its first ■! most convenient application is to the Asiaticnth of the Sarmatians. These may be calledrnatians as well, as they are by Ptolemy. On theMary, it is rare, even in a Greek anthor, tofir Nujromatae to the Sarmatians of the Panno- ■ frontier. The evidence as to the identity ofi words is superabundant. Besides the internal•whiliry, there is the statement of Pliny—" Sar-ser. Uraecis Sauromatae" (iv. 25). eT«h the writers of the Augustan age the use oftwo firms fluctuates. It is exceptional, how-I Greek to write Sarmatae, or a Roman tr-cnats*. Exceptional, however, as it is, the ■£* is frequent. Diodorus writes Sauromat:ie44X speaking of the Asiatic branch; Slrabo aa Sauromatae under the same circumstances; ■ vhen following Greek authorities. For theUra tribes be writes Sarmatae. "rid oars the term that best suits his metre,a; Sarwatae the preference, caeteris paribus. ,'trmaticae major Geticaeque frequentia gente ." (7>u<. v. 7. 13.)Jam dilici Getice Sarmaticeque lnqui." 'Ibid. v. 12. 58.)*r daU Sauromalet piauatra bubulcus agit." {Ibid. iii. 12. 30.) I • .Ssnromatae of Herodotus were the occupantsAafit. a word evidently used in a technical sense,^-t^pa the term by which his informants trans-[ tim Scythian or Sarmatian equivalents to ouri Mxrci; or it may = street The Bashkirtry, at the present moment, is divided into four'j. romis. or erays, according to the countriesfork they lead. The number of these Admitstwo j the fir»t being that of the Sauromatae.i*>d on the south and west by the Tanais andCo, and extending northwards fifteen days'ry. The country was treeless. The secondt. that of the Budini, followed. This was>*+A country. There is no necessity for con-the Budini with Sarmatae, on the strength■ir both being; occupants of a Ai{i». All that ■ ■MX of the text of Herodotus, is, that the Scythians near Olbiopolis knew of a Ad{is of thoSauromatae and a Arf£is of the Budini. The formerseems to have been the north-eastern part of theDon Kozak country, with a portion of Saratov(iv. 21). When Darius invaded Scythia,the Sauromatae, Ge-loni, and Budini acted together, and in opposition tothe Agathyrsi, Neuri, Androphagi, Melanchlaeni, andTauri; the former agreeing to help the Scythians,the latter to leave them to their fate. This suggeststhe probability that, politically, the Admits were con­federate districts (Herod, iv. 119). The language of the Sauromatao was Scythianrrith solecisms, a statement which leads to thestrange story of the Amazons (iv. 110—116), withwhom the Sauromatae were most especially con­nected (iv. 117). The women amongst them re­mained unmarried nntil they had slain an enemy. The account of Hippocrates is substantially thatof Herodotus, except that be especially calls theSauromatae European and Scythian; though, at thesame time, different from other nations. He makesthe number, too, of enemies that the virgins mustslay before they can marry, three. For further details, see Sahmatia. [R. G. L.] SAVUS (Sdot or Sdovos: Save), a great andnavigable tributary of the Danube; it has its sourcesin the Carnian Alps (Piln. iii. 28; Jornand. deBeb. Get. 56), and, flowing in an eastern directionalmost parallel with the mine northern Dravus,reaches the Danube at Singidunum. A portion ofits upper course forms the boundary between No-ricum and Pannonia, but the whole of the lowerpart of the river belongs to the southern part ofPannonia, and some of the most important towns ofthat country, as Siscia, Servitiun;, and Sirmium,were situated on its hanks. (Strab. iv. p. 207, vii.p. 314; Appian, iii. 22; Ptol. ii. 1.6. § I, iii. 9. § 1;Justin, xxxii. 3, 8, 16; Claud, de Laud. Stilich. ii.192.) [L. S.] SAXA RUBRA (Prima Porta), a village andstation on the Flaminian Way, 9 miles from RomeIt evidently derived its name from the redness oftho tufo rocks, which is still conspicuous in theneighbourhood of Prima Porta. The name iswritten " Ad Rubra*" in the Tabula, while Martialcalls the place simply " Rubrae;" and this form isfound also in the Jerusalem Itinerary. (Martial,iv. 64.15; /tin. Hier. p. 612.) But the proper form of itseems to have been Saxa Rubra, which is used bothby Livyand Cicero. Theformermentions it during thewars of the Romans with the Veientes, in connectionwith the operations on the Cremera (Liv. ii. 49);and Cicero notices it as a place in the immediatevicinity of Rome, where M. Antonius halted beforeentering the city. (Cic. Phil. ii. 31.) It waathere also that Antonius, the general of Vespasian,arrived on his march upon Rome, when he leamt thesuccesses of the Vitelliuns and the death of Sabinus.(Tac. Hist. iii. 79.) At a much later period also(n. c. 32) it was the point to which Maxentiusadvanced to meet Constantine previous to the battloat the Milvian bridge. (Vict. Caes. 40. § 23.)We learn from Martial (I. ft), that a village hadgrown up on the spot, as would naturally he thecase with a station so immediately iu the neighbour­hood of the city. On a hill on the right of the Via Flaminia, alittle beyond lYima Porta, are considerable ruins,which are believed to be those of the villa of Livia,known by the name of "Ad Gallinas," which waa