OCR Output . .DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. he servilely copied the institutions, and even the abuses,of the political system which had been framed by Con-stantine and his successors. From a tender regard tothe expiring prejudices of Rome, the barbarian declinedthe name, the purple, and the diadem, of the emperors;but he assumed, under the hereditary title of king, thewhole substance and plenitude of imperial prerogative.*His addresses to the eastern throne were respectful andambiguous; he celebrated in pompous style the harmonyof the two republics, applauded his own government as,the perfect similitude of a sole and undivided empire, andclaimed above the kings of the earth the same pre-emi­nence which he modestly allowed to the person or rankof Anastasius. The alliance of the east and west wasannually declared by the unanimous choice of two con­suls; but it should seem that the Italian candidate whowas named by Theodoric, accepted a formal confirmationfrom the sovereign of Constantinople.11 The Gothic pa­lace of Ravenna reflected the image of the court of Theo-dosius or Valentinian. The prastorian prefect, the pre­fect of Rome, the queestor, the master of the offices,with the public and patrimonial treasurers, whose func­tions are painted in gaudy colours by the rhetoric of Cas-siodorius, still continued to act as the ministers of state.And the subordinate care of justice and the revenue wasdelegated to seven consulars, three correctors, and fivepresidents, who governed the fifteen regions of Italy,according to the principles and even the forms of Romanjurisprudence.1 The violence of the conquerors was The image of Theodoric is engrayed on hi$ coins: his' modest successors weres&tisfied with adding their own name to the head of the reigning emperor. (MuratoriAntiquitat. Italiae Medii M\\, tom. 2. dissert. 27. p. 577—579.) Giannone IstoriaCivile di Napoli, tom. 1. p. 166.) h The alliance of the emperor and the king of Italy are represented by Cassiodo-rias (Var. 1. 1. 2. 2. 3. 6. 1.) and Procopius (Goth. 1. 2. c. 6. lib. 3. c. 21.) whocelebrate the friendship of Anastasius and Theodoric: hat the figurative style ofcompliment was interpreted in a very different sense at Constantinople and Ravenna. 1 To the seventeen provinces of the Notitia, Paul Warnefrid the deacon (De Reb.Longohard.lib. 2. c. 14—22.) has subjoined an eighteenth, the Appennine. (MuratoriScript. Rerum Italicarum, tom. 1. p. 431—433.) But of these Sardiniaand Corsicawere possessed by the Vandals, and the two Rbnetias, as well as the Cottian Alps,seem in have been ahandoned to a military goverument. The state of the four pro­