OCR Output 454 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. of the Teem. Then the Boii (a), and Lingenes (6) cros­sed the Pennine Alps, and having possessed themselvesof all the countries between the Alps and the Po, passedthat river in boats, and not only drove the Etrurians,but even the Umbrians (c) out of the country. Theyconfined themselves, however, within the Appenines.Then the Senones (d), the last of all the new comers,possessed themselves of the countries lying between the.rivers Montone and Fiumesmo. This was the nation, I find, that came first to Clusium,and thence to Rome; but I cannot say whether they-Icame alone, or assisted by all the other Cisalpine emi­grants. The Clusiaas,. terrified at this new war, whenthey saw the number aod extraordinary size of the ene­my, and withal the kind of arms they used, at the sametime having often heard that the Etrurians had beenoften defeated by them, both on this and the other side.of the "o: atthough they had no alliance with Rome,nor any claim to her friendship, if it were not, .that theyhad not'appeared in defence of the Vejentes, their kins­men, agiCinsK the Romans, sent ambassadors to Rome tosolicit assistance from the senate. In this, however, theydid not succeed; but the thret sons of Ambustius Fabiuswere sent ambassadors to treat with the Gauls in nameof the senate and people of Rome, and to represent,that they ought not to attack the friends and allies ofthe people of Rome, who never had injured them, andin whose defence, should it prove necessary, they wouldbe obliged to arm. But the most eligible alternativewas, if possible, to prevent it; and it would add more tothe character of the Gauls, whose settlement there hadbeen but of a short Standing, to make themselves knownby the arts of peace, than their prowess in war. («) "Who inhabited the Bourbotmois. (i) Who inhabited 1 angress. (c) Who possessed part of the dutchy" of Urbrn, of the territory of Perugia, the county of Citta Castellana, andmost of the dutchy of Spoleto. (4) From Sens and Auxerre.