OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 183 were, than for the unanimity which had ever subsistedbetween them. The interruption which this afterwardssuffered was, in my opinion, owing to a jarring be­tween the opposite parties rather than between them­selves ; the patricians endeavoring that Fabius shouldhave Etruria for-bis province, without casting lots, andthe plebeians insisting that Decius should bring thematter to the decision of lots. There was certainly acontention in the senate, and the interest of Fabiusbeing superior there, the business was brought beforethe people. Here, between military men who laidgreater stress on deeds than on words, the debate wasshort. Fabius said ' that it was unreasonable that afterhe had planted a tree another should gather the fruitof it. He had opened the Ciminian forest, and made away for the Roman arms through passes until thenimpracticable. Why had they disturbed his repose atthat time of his life, if they intended to give the manage­ment of the war to another?' Then, in the way of agentle reproof, he observed, that ' instead of an asso­ciate in command, he had chosen an adversary; andthat Decius thought it too much that their unanimityshould last through three consulates.' Declaring, infine, that ' he desired nothing farther than that, ifthey thought him qualified for the command in theprovince, they should send him thither. He had sub­mitted to the judgment of the senate, and would nowbe governed by the authority of the people.' PubliusDecius complained of injustice in the senate ; and as­serted that ' the patricians had labored as long as pos­sible to exclude the plebeians from all access to thehigher honors; and since merit, by its own intrinsicpower, had prevailed so far as that it should not in anyrank of men be precluded from the attainment of them,they sought every expedient to render ineffectual, notonly the suffrages of the people, but even the decisionsof fortune, converting all things to the aggrandisementof a few. Former consuls had disposed of the provincesby lots; now, the senate bestowed a province on Fa­bius at their pleasure. If this was meant as a mark of