OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. G5 first onset, nor the standards moved either forward orbackward, nor any ground lost on either side. Theyfought without taking breath, every man in his post,and pushing agaiust their, opponents with their shields.The Doise continuing equal, and the terror of the fightthe same, seemed to denote that the decision would beeffected either by fatigue or by the night. The menhad now exhausted their strength, the sword its power,and the leaders their skill; when, on a sudden, theSamnite cavalry, having learned from a single troopwhich had advanced beyond the rest that the baggageof the Romans lay at a distance from their army, with­out any guard or defence, eager for booty, they has­tened to attack it: of which the dictator being informedby a hasty messenger, said, ' Let them alone ; let themincumber themselves with spoils.' Afterwards cameseveral, one after another, crying out that they wereplundering and carrying off all the effects of the sol­diers : he then called to him the master of the horse,and said, ' Do you see, Marcus Fabius, that the ene­my's cavalry have forsaken the fight ? They are en­tangled and incumbered with our baggage. Attackthem : you will find them, as is the case of every mul­titude employed in plundering, scattered about; fewmounted on horseback, few with swords in their hands;and, while they are loading their horses with spoil,and unarmed, put them to the sword, and make itbloody spoil for them. I will take care of the legionsand the fight of the infantry; yours be the honor whichthe horse shall acquire.' 39. The body of cavalry, in the most exact orderpossible, charging the enemy, who were straggling andembarrassed, filled every place with slaughter; for thepackages which they hastily threw down, and whichlay in the way of their feet, and of the affrighted horses,as they endeavored to escape, made them unable eitherto fight or fly. Then Fabius, after he had almost in-tirely cut off the enemy's horse, led round his squadronsin a small circuit, and attacked the infantry in the rear.The new shout raised in that quarter terrified the Sam- LIV. VOL. III. E