OCR Output 430 WARS OF THE JEHTS. Book II. commander of a troop of horsemen. So it was not without dif­ficulty that they got to Gabao, their former camp, and that notwithout the loss of a great part of their baggage. There it wasthat C--stiiis staid two days, and was in great distress to knowwhat he should do in these circumstances ; but when, on thethird day, he saw a still much greater number of enemies, andall the parts round about him full of Jews, he understood thathis delay was to his own detriment, and that if he stayed anylonger there, he should have still more enemies upon him. 8. That therefore he might fly the faster, he gave orders tocast away what might hinder his army's march, so they killedthe mules, and other creatures, excepting thosethat carried theirdarts, and machines, which they retained for their own use, andthis principally because they were afraid lest the Jews shouldsieze upon them. He then made his army march on as far asBethoron. Now the Jews did not so much press upon themwhen they were in large open places, but when they werepenn'd up in their descent through narrow passages, then didsome of them get before, and hindered them from getting outof them, and others of them thrust the hinder most down into thelower places, and the whole multitude extended themselves overagainst the neck of the passage, and covered the Roman armywith their darts. In which circumstances, as the footm enknewnot how to defend themselves, so the danger pressed the horse­men still more, for they were so pelted, that they could notmarch along the road in their ranks, and the ascents were so high,that the cavalry were not able to march against the enemy; theprecipices also, and valleys into which they frequently fell, andtumbled down, were such on each side of them, that there wereneither place for their flight, nor any contrivance could bethought of for their defence ; till the distress they were at lastin was so great, that they betook themselves to lamentations,and to such mournful MICH as men use in the utmost despair;the joyful acclamations of the Jews also, as they encouraged oneanother, echoed the sounds back again, these last composing anoise of those that at once rejoiced, and were in a rage. Indeed,things were come to such a pass, that the Jews had almost takenCestius's entire army prisoners, had not the night come on, whenthe Romans fled to Bethoron, and the Jews seized upon all theplaces round about them, and watched for their coming out [inthe morning]. 0. And then it was that Cestius, despairing of obtaining roomfor a public march, contrived how he might best run away; andwhen he had selected four hundred of the most courageous of hissoldiers, he placed them at the strongest »: their fortifications,