OCR Output CHAP. XLIX 233 most dexterously seized the occasion of judging theclaims and merits of the candidates, and of bestowingon the most obsequious, or most liberal, the imperialoffice of advocate of the Roman church. The dregs ofthe Carlovingian race no longer exhibited any symp­toms of virtue or power, and the ridiculous epithets ofthe bald, the stammerer, the fat, and the simple, dis­tinguished the tame and uniform features of a crowd ofkings alike deserving of oblivion. By the failure of thecollateral branches, the whole inheritance devolved toCharles the Fat, the last emperor of his family; his in-Division sanity authorized the desertion of Germany,^^ Italy, and France: he was deposed in a diet,A.D. asa, an(l solicited his daily bread from the rebels bywhose contempt his life and liberty had been spared.According to the measure of their force, the governors,the bishops, and the lords, usurped the fragments of thefalling empire; and some preference was shewn to thefemale or illegitimate blood of Charlemagne. Of thegreater part, the title and possession were alike doubt­ful, and the merit was adequate to the contracted scaleof their dominions. Those who could appear with anarmy at the gates of Rome were crowned emperors inthe Vatican, but their modesty was more frequently sa­tisfied with the appellation of kings of Italy; and thewhole term of seventy-four years may be deemed a va­cancy, from the abdication of Charles the Fat to theestablishment of Otho I. otho king Othob was of the noble race of the dukes ofofGennany gaxony . and if he tru]v descended from Witti- kin(^, tlie adversary and proselyte of Charle-magne, the posterity of a vanquished people b He was the son of ,Otho, the son of Ludolph, in whose favour the dutchy ofSaxony had been instituted, A. D. 858. Ruotgerus, the biographer of a St. Bruno,(Bibliot. BrunaviansE Catalog, torn 5. vol. 2. p. 679.) gives asplendid character ofbis family. Atavorum atavi usque ad hominum memoriam omnes nobilissimi;Eullisin eorura stripe ignotns, nullus degener facile reperitur. (apud Struvium, Corp.Hiat. German, p. 216.) Yet Gundling (in Hcnrico Aucupe) i s not satisfied of hisdescent from Wittikind.