OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 30} Cations necessary to the perfection of their virtue. The numberof these however is but small, and consequently the exceptionsto this observation are but few. Page 305. Are believed to be brothers."] Sleep and Death werewith great propriety said by the ancients to be twins, from theintimate alliance between Sense and Phantasy, from which we areliberated by these divinities. For as Sleep frees us from the senses,so Death from the phantasy. But Sltep, considered as a godjis that power through which the divinities are enabled to ener­gize in a manner separate from all inferior concerns, at the fametime that their providential care is extended to every part of theuniverse : and this latter energy was denominated by ancient the-ologists vigilance. I only add, that the passage of Homer alludedto by Pausaniasis Iliad 16. v. 672, and that Sleep and Death arecalled brothers both by Orpheus and Hcsiod. Page 308. Chiron.'] Chiron, according to fables, was the sonof Saturn by the nymph Philyra the daughter of Ocean. Andit is said that Saturn, in order to elude Rhea, changed himselfinto a horse when he was connected with Philyra. Hence theupper parts of Chiron, as far as to his navel, were those of a man,and his lower parts were those of a horse. Chiron, therefore, isthe image of a man, who lived in the confines of the kingdom ofJupiter and Saturn, or, in other words, who lived a life partly•consisting of the political and partly of the intellectual virtues,but yet so that he possessed the former in greater perfection thanthe latter. For the fable, by asserting that his upper parts werehuman, signifies his living according to the politic virtues, of whichJupiter is the exemplar j since Jupiter is peculiarly ir*T»; a>Jja»nSiarc-i, the father of gods and men. As Jupiter therefore is emi­nently a political god, man must partake in an eminent degree of apolitical life. But the lower parts of Chiron evidently partakeof the nature of Saturn: and Saturn is the source of an intel-leSual life, which he causes to receive the most extreme division.But what are we to understand by Saturn changing himself into X x a horse I