OCR Output 418 ROMAN EMPIRE. men, the Saracens prevailed: the Greeks embarked theirdispirited and diminished numbers, and the standard ofMahomet was planted on the walls of the capital ofEgypt. / have taken (said Amrou to the caliph) thegreat city of the west. It is impossible for me to enu­merate the variety of its riches and beauty; and I shallcontent myself with observing, that it contains four thou­sand palaces, four thousand baths, four hundred theatresor places of amusement, twelve thousand shops for the saleof vegetable food, and forty thousand tributary Jews.The town has been subdued by force of arms, withouttreaty or capitulation, and the Moslems are impatient toseise the fruits of their victory.1 The commander of thefaithful rejected with firmness the idea of pillage, anddirected his lieutenant to reserve the wealth and revenueof Alexandria for the public service and the propagationof the faith: the inhabitants were numbered; a tributewas imposed; the zeal and resentment of the Jacobiteswere curbed, and the Melchites, who submitted to theArabian yoke, were indulged in the obscure but tranquilexercise of their worship. The intelligence of this dis­graceful and calamitous event afflicted the declininghealth of the emperor; and Heraclius died of a dropsyabout seven weeks after the loss of Alexandria/ Underthe minority of his grandson, the clamours of a people,deprived of their daily sustenance, compelled the By­zantine court to undertake the recovery of the capital ofEgypt. In the space of four years, the harbour andfortifications of Alexandria were twice occupied by afleet and army of Romans. They were twice expelledby the valour of Amrou, who was recalled by the do­mestic peril from the distant wars of Tripoli and Nubia.But the facility of the attempt, the repetition of the in- 1 Eutych. Anna1, torn. 2. p. 316. 319. J Notwithstanding some inconsistencies of Theophanes and Cedrenus, the ac­curacy of Pagi (Critica, torn. 2. p. 824.) has extracted from Nicephorus and theChronicon Orientale the true date of the death of Heraclius, February 11, A. D.641; fifty Jays after the loss of Alexandria. A fourth of that time was sufficient toconvey the intelligence.