OCR Output OF ROME. 437. ckr was fuddenly proclaimed, that no one mould B 9. O Kbe injured except thofe who were in arms, which •- r-_•induced all the furviving multitude to lay down Y.R. 3*5.their arms. Of thefe, there were taken alive, BiC.4*3.to. the number of two thoufand five hundred.Fabius would not fuffer his foldiers to meddlewith the reft of the fpoil, until his colleaguesarrived, faying, that thofe armies had alfo a marein the taking of Anxur, who had diverted the othertroops of the Volfcians from the defence of theplace. On their arrival the three armies plunderedthe city, which a long courfe of profperity hadtilled with opulence; and this liberality of thecommanders firft began to reconcile the commons tothe patricians: which end was foon after fartherpromoted; the principal nobility, with a generofitytowards the multitude the moft feafonable that everwas fhewn, procuring a decree of the fenate beforefuch a fcheme fhould be mentioned by the tribunesor commons, that the foldiers fhould receive pay outof the public treafury *, whereas hitherto every onehad difcharged that duty at his own expence. LX. No meafure, we are told, was ever receivedby the commons with fuch tranfports of joy: theyran in crowds to the fenate-houfc, caught the handsof the fenators as they came out, declaring that theywere fathers in reality, and acknowledging that theirconduct had been fuch, that no man, whilft he hadany fhare of ftrength remaining, would fpare his per-fon, or his blood, in the caule of a country fo liberalto its citizens. Whilft they were delighted with thecomfortable profpect of their private property at allevents refting unimpaired, during fuch time as theirperfons mould be configned over to the common- * The foot foldiers only. The horfe did not receive pay until threerears after. The pay of a foot foldier, in the time of the fecond Pu.h'ck war, was three afet; too fmall, if they had not received ansllow.anct of corn and lbii,etiu:i:i of clothes. F F .3 . wealtny