OCR Output LUPODUNUM. 217 LUSI. Ptolemy wouU lead us to suppose that it was amaritime town, (l'lin. iii. 11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1.§ 14.) Appian also speaks of Octavian as landingthere on his return to Italy, immediately after Caesar's<i" itJi. when be halted some days at Lupine withoutventuring to advance to Brundusium, until he re­ceived fresh information from Koine. (Appian,B. C. iii. 10.) There seems, however, no doubttint the ancient Lupiae occupied the same site asthe modem Lecce, though it may have bad a portor landing-place of its own. The above passage ofAppian is the only mention of it that occurs in his­tory; but a tradition preserved to us by JuliusCapitulinus (A/. Ant. 1.) ascribed its foundation toa king of the Salentines, named Malennius, the sonof Dasumus. Then; is little doubt that it wasreally a native Salentine city; nor is there any foun­dation for supposing it to have received a Greekcolony. Pausanias, in a passage which has given ri.seto much confusion, in treating of the treasury of theSybarites at Olympia, tells us that Sybaris was thesame city which was called in his time Lupia, andwas situated between Brundusium and Hydruutum.(I'ius. vi. 19. § 9.) The only reasonable expla­nation of this strange mistake is, that he con­founded Lupia in Calabria (the name of which wassometimes written Lopia) with the Roman colony ofCopia in Lucania, which had in fact arisen on thekite of Tburii, and, therefore, in a manner succeededto Sybaris. But several modern writers (Romanelli,Cramer, &c.) have adopted the mistake of Pausa-uias, and afiinned that Lupiae was previously calledSnaris, though it is evidently of the well-knowncity of Sybaris that that author is speaking. Webear but little of Lupiae as a Roman town, thoughit appears to have been a municipal town of someimportance, and is mentioned by all the geographers.The u ager Lyppiensis" (sic) is also noticed in theLiber Coloniarum; but it does not appear that itreceived a colony, and the inscriptions in which itbears tbe title of one are, in all probability, spurious.Nor is there any ancient authority for the name ofLycium or Lvcia, which is assigned to the cityby several local writers: this form, of which themodern name of Lecce is obviously a corruption,being first found in documents of the middle ages.(Lib. Colon, p. 262; Mel. ii. 4. § 7; Itin. Ant. t- H8-) lite modern city of Lecce is a large and populousplace, and the chief town of the province called theTrrra di OlranUy. No ancient remains are now•bible; but Galateo, writing in the loth cen­tury, tells us that there were then extensive sub­terranean remains of the ancient city — vast arches,revered galleries and foundations of ancient build­ing*— upon which the modern city was in great"leisure built. Numerous vases and other relics of"utiijaity liave also been brought to light by exca-tiikios, and an inscription in the Messapian dialect.((jaUteo, de Hit. lapyg. pp. 81—86; Romanelli,>J. ii. pp. 83—93; jloiuinsen, Cnter ItaL Dialecte,P- 49.) [E. H. B.] LUPUDITXUM,* place on the river Nicer(Aeciar)ia Ssitliem Germany. (Au.son. MoteL 423; Sym-unchus, p. 16, ed. Xiebuhr.) It is probably thetame place as the modern Ixuienbwg on the A'eciar,tiwagh some identify it with tbe fort which the em­peror Valentinian built on tbe banks of the Neckar.(Amm. Marc, xxviii. 2.) [I,. S.] LUPPHL'RDUM (Aovra>ou0oW), a town in the&*tb of Germany. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 28.) Its site is generally identified with Wittenberg or Meissen; butit seems more probable that it was situated nearl.-eiffzig, on the river Luppa, from which it mayhave derived its name. [L. S.] LU'PPIA or LU'PIA (<S Aoinrios: Lippe),a na­vigable river in the north-Test of Germany, whichwas well known to the Romans, from its sources tothe point where it empties itself into the Rhine. Itssources are in the interior of Germany, not far fromthose of the Amisia. (£mi.) (Veil. Pat. ii. 105;Tae. Ann. i. 60, ii. 7, Hist. v. 22; Pomp. Mela, iii.3. §3; Strab. vii. p. 291; Dion Cass. liv. 33.)Strabo (/. c.) had a very incorrect notion of thecourse of the Lupia, for he describes it as flowingthrough the country of the Bructcri Minores, and asdischarging its waters, like the Amasia, into theocean: he, moreover, places it about 600 stadia fromthe Rhine. Tacitus (Ann. ii. 7) mentions a Romanfort bnilt on its banks. I., S. | LU'PPIA (Aowroria), a place of considerable im­portance in the north of Germany, between the riversAlbis and Visnrgis, above Mons Melibocus. (Ptol.ii. 11. § 28, viii. 6. § 3.) It is generally identifiedwith the modern town of Lupta. [L. S.] LUSI (Aouo-oi, Paus., Steph. B. s. v.; AoDooi,Aovoffoi, ra Aowrca, Schol. ad Callim. J)ian. 235;comp. Meineke, ad Steph. B. s. v.: Eth. Aoi/iriov,Aourreoy, Aovai&T-ns, Steph. B.; Aovattvs, Xeu.Anab. iv. 2. § 21), a town in the north of Arcadia,originally independent of, but afterwards subject to,Cleitor. [Cleitor.] Lusi was situated in theupper valley of the Aroanius. and probably on thesite of Sudhend. which stands in the NK. corner ofthe valley at the foot of Mt. Khehiids (the ancientAroanian mountains), and on the road from Tri-politzd to Kaldivyta. The upper valley of theAroanius, now called tbe plain of Sudhend, consistsof two plains, of which the more easterly is the onethrough which the Aroanius flows, the waters ifwhich force their way through a gorge in the moun­tains into the plain of Cleitor, now Kdtmna, to thesouth. The more westerly plain of Sudhend is en­tirely shut in by a range of hills; and the waters ofthree streams which flow into this plain are carriedoff by a katavd'thra, after forming an inundation,apparently the Lacns Clitorius mentioned by Pliny(x-.;.i. 2. s. 13). The air is damp and cold; andin this locality the best hemlock was grown (The-ophr. ix. 15. § 8). Lusi was still independent in the 58th Olympiad;since one of its citizens is recorded to have gainedthe victory in the 11th Pythiad. (Paus. viii. 18.§ 8.) Its territory was ravaged by the Aetoliansin the Social War (Polyb. iv. 18); but in the timeof Pausanias there were no longer even any ruins ofthe town. (Paus. I. c.) Its name, however, waspreserved in consequence of its temple of ArtemisLusia or Hemerasia (the "Soother "). The goddesswas so called, because it was here that the daughtersof Proetus were purified from their madness. Theyhad concealed themselves in a large cavern, fromwhich they were taken by Melampus, who curedthem by sacred expiations. Thereupon their fatherProetus founded this temple of Artemis Hemerasia,which was regarded with great reverence throughoutthe whole Peloponnesus as an inviolable asylum. Itwas plundered by the Aetolians in the Social War.It was situated near Lusi, at the distance of 40stadia from Cynaetha. (Pans.; Polyb. /(. cc.; Cal-lim. Dion. 233.) The interior of the temple, withthe purification of the daughters of Proetus, is re­