OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 29 men were once more armed. That all this could be donewithout the consuls, who were but a few miles off, learninganything of it, is not the least marvellous feature in this mar­vellous movement animated by a truly enthusiastic, and infact superhuman, national hatred. When at length the con­suls, weary of waiting, broke up from their camp at Utica, andthought that they should be able to scale the naked walls withladders, they found to their surprise and horror the battle­ments crowned anew with catapults, and the large populouscity, which they had hoped to occupy like an open village,able and ready to defend itself to the last man. Carthage was rendered very strong both by the nature of situation ofits situation* and by the art of its inhabitants, who had very Carthage.frequently to depend on the protection of its walls. Intothe broad gulf of Tunis, which is bounded on the west byCape Farina and on the east by Cape Bon, there projects ina direction from west to east a promontory, which is encom­passed on three sides by the sea and is connected with themainland only towards the west. This promontory, at its nar­rowest piirt only about two miles broad and on the whole flat,again expands towards the gulf, and terminates there in thetwo heights of Jebel-Khawi and Sidi bu Said, between whichextends the plain of El Mersa. On its southern portionwhich ends in the height of Sidi bu Said lay the city ofCarthage. The pretty steep declivity of that height towardsthe gulf and its numerous rocks and shallows gave naturalstrength to the side of the city next to the gulf, and asimple circumvallation was sufficient there. On the wallalong the west or landward side, on the other hand, wherenature afforded no protection, every appliance within thepower of the art of fortification in those times was expended.It consisted, as its recently discovered remains exactly tally­ing with the description of Polybius have shown, of an outerwall of six and a half feet in thickness and immense case­mates constructed behind this wall probably along its wholeextent; these were separated from the outer wall by acovered way six feet broad, and had a width of fourteen * The line of the coast has heen in the course of centuries so much changed,that the former local relations are but imperfectly recognizable on the ancientsite. The name of the city is preserved by Cape Cartagena—also called fromthe saint's tomb found there Ras Sidi bu Said—the most eastern headland ofthe peninsula, projecting into the gulf with its highest point rising to 393feet above the level of the sea.