OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. were artfully incensed against him by the remembranceeven of his pious hostilities. The emperor and his ne­phew embraced him as the faithful and worthy championof the church and state; and gratefully adorned theirfavourite with the titles of consul and general; but inthe seventh month of his consulship,Vitalian was stabbedwith seventeen wounds at the royal banquet;8 and Jus­tinian, who inherited the spoil, was accused as the assas­sin of a spiritual brother, to whom he had recentlypledged his faith in the participation of the Christianmysteries.h After the fall of his rival, he was promoted,without any claim of military service, to the office ofmaster-general of the eastern armies, whom it was hisduty to lead into the field against the public enemy.But, in the pursuit of fame, Justinian might have lost hispresent dominion over the age and weakness of his uncle;and instead of acquiring by Scythian or Persian trophiesthe applause of his countrymen,1 the prudent warriorsolicited their favour in the churches, the circus, and thesenate of Constantinople. The Catholics were attachedto the nephew of Justin, who, between the Nestorianand Eutychian heresies, trod the narrow path of inflexi­ble and intolerant orthodoxy.11 In the first days of thenew reign, he prompted and gratified the popular enthu­siasm against the memory of the deceased emperor. Aftera schism of thirty-four years, he reconciled the proudand angry spirit of the Roman pontiff, and spread amongthe Latins a favourable report of his pious respect for theapostolic see. The thrones of the east were filled with S His power, character, and intentions, are perfectly explained by the count deBoat. (tom. 9. p. 54—81.) He was great-grandson of Aspar, hereditary prince inthe Lesser Scythia, and count of the Gothic fitderati of Thrace. The Bessi, whomhe could influence, are the minor Goths of Jornandes. (c. 51.) tl Justinian patricii factione dioitur interfectus fuisse. (Victor Tununensis, Chrnn.in Thesaur. Temp. Scaliger, p. 2. p. 7.) Procopius (Anecdot. c. 7.) styles him atyrant, but acknowledges the att\qmunU, which is well explained by Alemannus. * In his earliest youth (plane adolescens) he had passed some time as a hostagewith Theodoric. For this curious fact, Alemannus (ad Procop. Anecdot. c. 9. p. 34.of the first edition) quotes a MS. history of Justinian, by his preceptor Theophilus.Ludewig (p. 143.) wishes to make him a soldier. k The ecclesiastical history of Justinian will he shewn hereafter. See Baronins,A. D. 518—521. and the copious article Justinianus in the index to the seventh volumoof his Annals.