OCR Output ROMA. KOMA. 7f>l (■tatnunet ante senatulum,"L 8). This nrastan two nor the senaculum of the Curia Hostilia,lit mold hardly hare been the same. If Macrobiusi ri|fct. then Festus is wrong in limiting the sena-aiilo three; and it does not seem improbable thatk mt near temples, where the senate was ac-araned to meet, may have been called senacula. To Aaras Marcins we can only ascribe the Car-rz AMn:riM s. or prison described by Livy asreluagiDg the forum ('" media arbe, imminens foro," K). It is still to be seen near the arch of"•"->. under the church of S. Giuseppe dei Fa- *? kite before remarked that a new architecturali t»ki» at Borne with the reign of Tarquiniusana: and if he had not been interrupted by wars,I nold doubtless have carried out many of thosemi arhmea which he was destined only to pro-'. He may almost be called the founder of thevc, usee it was he who first surrounded it withntf booses and shops. According to Varro (ap.araa. § L 8), be also founded the Temple ofitu an the forum at the spot where the altaroa, though, according to another account, it wasr« tj Tali us Hostihus. At all events, it does *-o to have been dedicated before the expul-I «f the kings (Macrob. I. «.), and according to;• (a> 21). in the consulship of Sempronius andanas, a. c 497. According to Becker (Bandb.Ill) the rain of the three columns under theatal an remains of it, and this, he asserts, is ait Beaded certainty, which can be denied only byasa who prefer their own opinion to historicalan, or wilfully shut their eyes. It appears to b^rrer, judging from these very historicalthat there is a great deal more authorityim Italian view than for Becker's; according toA taw temple of Saturn is the ruin of the eightBaa, at the foot of the clivus. All the writers(ru of it mention it as being at the lowerat tlaa bill, and beneath the clivus, while the1 o>ma> are a good way up, and afore thea. Tana Serrins (Am. ii. 115, viii. 319)i' the te: .]'..• of .Saturn was " ante clivtimavai; * mod in the Origo gentis Romanae\ It is aaad to be " sab clivo Capitolino." Inasraar Varro (£.. L. v. § 42, Mull.) places itatanafss (moutis Saturni);" and Dionysins,Tj rev Aoepov, Kara rijy Slvu&ov ttjv airb rfis ay opus aWpowrw els rb KawiT&jAior (i. 34),FestuB (p. 322, Mull.) describes the ara as havingbeen "in imo clivo Capitolino." Moreover, themiliarium aureum, which stood at the top of theforum (Plin. iii. 9) was under the temple of Saturn;"ad miliarium aureum, sub aedem Saturni" (Tac.//.i. 27); "sub aedem Saturni, ad miliarium aureum"(Suet. Otho. c. 6.) Further, the JUomtmenlumAncyranwn mentions the Basilica Julia as "interaedem Castoris et aedem Saturni." Now what hasBecker got to oppose to this overwhelming mass ofthe very best evidence? His objections are, first,that Servius (.Im;. ii. 116) mentions the temple ofSaturn as being "juxta Concordiae templum ; " andthough the eight columns are near the temple ofConcord, yet they cannot, without awkwardness, becalled juxta! Secondly, the KotUiay proceeding fromthe Career Mamertinus, names the temples in thsfollowing order: Templum Concordiae et Saturni etVespasiani et Titi. Now, as the three columns arenext to the temple of Concord, it follows that theybelong to the temple of Satum. The whole forceof the proof here adduced rests on the assump-tion that the Notitia mentions these buildingsprecisely in the order in which they actually oc­curred. But it is notorious that the authority ofthe Notitia in this respect cannot be at all de­pended on, and that objects are named in it in themost preposterous manner. We need no otherwitness to this fact than Becker himself, who saysof this work, " Propterea cavendum est diligenter,ne, quoties plnra simul templa nominantur, eodemea online juncta fuisse arbitremur." (Z)e Muris,&c, p. 12, note.) But thirdly, Becker proceeds:"This argument obtains greater certainty from theinscriptions collected by the Anonymous of Ein-sicdlen. Fortunately, the entire inscriptions of allthe three temples are preserved, which may be stillpartly read on the ruins. They run as follows:'Senatus populusque Romanus incendio consumptumrestituit Divo Vespasiano Augusto[|. s. p. Q. K. impp.Caess. Severus et Antoninus pii felic Aug. restitue-ront.j|s.p.Q.R. aedem Concordiae vetustate collspsamin meliorem faciem opere et cultu splcndidiore re-stituerunt." Now as the whole of the first inscrip­tion, with the exception of the last three words,11 Divo Vespasiano Augusto," are still to be readover the eight columns, and the letters estitver,a fragment of " restituerunt" in the second inscrip­ TAatCLaJUL'M AND TEMPLES OF VESPASIAN, SATURN AND CONCORD.