OCR Output 208 THE ATTEMPT OF MAEIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. It was natural that they should do so; their interests andaims coincided, and even in the earlier candidatures ofMarius Saturninus at least had most decidedly and mosteffectively taken his side. It was agreed between them, that 100. for 654 Marius should become a candidate for a sixth con­sulship, Saturninus for a second tribunate, Glaucia for thepraetorship, in order that, possessed of these offices, theymight carry out the intended revolution in the state. Thesenate acquiesced in the nomination of the less dangerousGlaucia, but did what it could to hinder the election ofMarius and Saturninus, or at least to associate with theformer a determined antagonist in the person of QuintusMetellus as his colleague in the consulship. All appliances,lawful and unlawful, were put in motion by both parties;but the senate was not successful in arresting the dangerousconspiracy in the bud. Marius did not disdain in person tosolicit votes and, it was said, even to purchase them; infact, at the tribunician elections when nine men from thelist of the government-party were proclaimed, and the tenthplace seemed already secured for a respectable man of thesame complexion Quintus Nunnius, the latter was set uponand slain by a savage band, which is said to have beenmainly composed of discharged soldiers of Marius. Thusthe conspirators gained their object, although by the mostviolent means. Marius was chosen as consul, Glaucia as 100. praetor, Saturninus as tribune of the people for 654; thesecond consular place was obtained not by Quintus Metellus,but by an insignificant man, Lucius Valerius Flaccus: theconfederates might proceed to put into execution the furtherschemes which they contemplated and to complete the work 121. broken off in 633.The Appu- Let us recall the objects which Gaius Gracchus pursued,leian laws. and the means by which he pursued them. His object wasto break down the oligarchy within and without. He aimed,on the one hand, to restore the power of the magistrateswhich had become completely dependent on the senateto its original sovereign rights, and to re-convert the sena- i,torial assembly from a governing into a deliberative board: 1and, on the other hand, to put an end to the aristocraticdivision of the state into the three classes of the ruling bur­gesses, the Italian allies, and the subjects, by the gradualequalization of those distinctions which were incompatiblewith a government not oligarchical. These ideas the three