OCR Output 136 LATIUM. LATIUM. limestone mountains, frequently rising to a greatheight, and very abruptly, while in other cases theirsides are clothed with magnificent forests of oakand chestnut trees, and their lower slopes are welladapted for the growth of vines, olives, and corn.The broad valley of the Trerua, which extends fromthe foot of the hill of Praeneste to the valley of theLiris, is bordered on both sides by hills, covered withthe richest vegetation, at the back of which rise thel«fty ranges of the Volscian and Hernican mountains.This valley .which is followed throughout by the courseof the Via Latina, forms a natural line of communica­tion from the interior of Latium to the valley of theLiris, and so to Campania; the importance of whichin a military point of view is apparent on many occa­sions in Human history. The broad valley of theLiris itself opens an easy and unbroken communica­tion from the heart of the Apennines near the LakeFucinus with the plains of Campania. On the otherside, the Anio, which has its sources in the ruggedmountains near 7VeriT not far from those of the Liris,flows in a S\V. direction, and after changing itscourse abruptly two or three times, emerges throughthe gorge at Ticoli into the plain of the RomanCampagna, The greater part of Latium is not (as comparedwith some other parts of Italy) a country of greatnatural fertility. On the other hand, the barren anddesolate aspect which the Campagna now presentsis apt to convey a very erroneous impression as to itscharacter and resources. The greater part of thevolcanic plain not only affords good pasturage forftheep and cattle, but is capable of producing con­siderable quantities of corn, while the slopes of thehills on all sides are well adapted to the growthof vines, olives, and other fruit-trees. The wine ofthe Alhan Hills was celebrated in tiro days of Horace(Hot. Carm. iv. 11. 2, Sat ii. 8. 16), while the figsof Tusculutn, the hazel-nuts of Rraeneste, and thepears of Crustuminm and Tilmr were equally notedfor their excellence. (Macrob. Sat. ii. 14, 15; Cato,R. It. 8.) In the early ages of the Koman history the culti­vation of com must, from the number of small townsscattered over the plain of Latium, have been carriedto a far greater extent than we find it at the presentday; but under the Koman Km pi re, and even beforethe close of the Republic, there appears to have beena continually increasing tendency to diminish theamount of arable cultivation, and increase that ofpasture. Nevertheless the attempts that have beenmade even in modern times to promote agriculturein the neighbourhood of Kome have sufficiently provedthat its decline is more to be attributed to othercauses than to the sterility of the soil itself. Thetract near the sea-coast alone is sandy and barren,and fully justifies the language of Fabius, who calledit " agrum rnaeerrimuni, liltorusifsimumqne" (Sen'.ad A en i. 3). On the other hand, the slopes ofthe A loan Hills are of great fertility, and are stillstudded, as they were in ancient times, with the villasof Roman nobles, and with gardens of the greatestrichness. The climate of Latium was very far from being ahealthy one, even in the ma^t nVm rolling times ofRome, though the greiter amount of population andcultivation tended to diminish the effects of themalaria which at the present day is the scourge ofthe district. Strabo tells us that the territory ofArdea, as well as the tract between Antiura andJ.auuviuiii, and extending from thence to the routine Marshes, was marshy and unwholesome (v. p. 21IXThe I'outine plains themselves are described as ** pes­tiferous" (Sil. Ital. viii. 379), and all the attempt*made to drain them seem to have produced butlittle effect. The unhealthiness of Ardea is noticedboth by Martial and Seneca as something proverbial(Mart iv. 60; Seneca, Ep. 105): but, besides! this,expressions occur which point to a much moregeneral diffusion of malaria. Livy in one passagerepresents the Roman soldiers as complaining thatthey had to maintain a constant struggle '* in arideatque pestilenti, circa urbem, solow(Liv. vii. 3*0;and Cicero, in a passage where there was moch lea*room for rhetorical exaggeration, praises the choirsof Romulus in fixing his city " in a healthy spot iathe midst of a jicstilential region." (** Locnin oVtegitin rtgione pestilenti salubrem," Cic. de Rep. ii. 6.)But we learn also, from abundant allusions inancient writers, that it was only by comparison thatRome itself could be considered healthy; even inthe city malaria fevers were of frequent occurrencein summer and autumn, and Horace scales of lis*heats of Bummer as bringing in ** fresh figs andfunerals." (Hor. Ep.\. 7. 1—9.) FrontinusaUoext-Uthe increased supply of water as tending to removethe causes which had previously rendered Romenottrriousfvr its unhealthy climate ("causae gravjnr »coeli, quibus apud vet eras urbis infamis aer fuiL*Front in. tie Aquaed. § 88). But the great accu­mulation of the population at Rome itself mast haveoperated as a powerful check ; for even at the presentday malaria is unknown in the most densely popu­lated parts of the city, though these are the lowestin point of position, while the hills, which were thenthickly peopled, but are now almost uninhabited,are all subject to its ravages. In like manner inthe Campagna, wherever a considerable nucleus ofpopulation was once formed, with a certain extentof cultivation around it, this would in itself tend tokeep down the mischief; and it is jm>bable tliat,even in the most flourishing times of the RomanUmpire, this evil was considerably greater than ithad been in the earlier ages, when the numerousfree cities formed so many centres of {papulation andagricultural industry. It is in accordance with tinsview that we find the malaria extending its ravageswith frightful rapidity after the fall of the RomanEmpire and the devastation of the Campagnn; anda writer of the 11th century speaks of the deadlyclimate of Rome in terms which at the present daywould appear greatly exaggerated. (Trims I>»-miauus, cited by Bunsen.) The unhealt bines*arising from this cause is, however, entirely coofionlto the plains. It ia found at lite present day thatan elevation of 350 or 400 feet above their lerelgives complete immunity; and hence Tibur, To*-culum, Arina, Lauuvium, and all the other citiesthat were built at a considerable height above theplain were perfectly healthy, and were re**>rtad t<»during the summer (in ancient as well aa moderntimes) by all who could afford to retreat frwn thecity and its immediate neighbourhood. (See on thi*subject Tournon, hTtudt* Statiitiqves s*r Rom*, lir. i.chap. 9; Bunsen, Beschreibtmg tier Stadt Rom. vol. i.pp. 98—108.) IV. HtsTonr. 1. Origin and Affinities of the Latime.— Allancient writers are agreed in representing the Latin*,properly to called, or the inhabitants of Latium inthe restricted oen.se of the term, as a distinct pwjV