OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL faithful natives devoted their labours to the service of Amrou; some sparks ofmartial spirit were perhaps rekindled by the example of their allies; and thesanguine hopes of Mokawkas had fixed his sepulchre in the church of St. John ofAlexandria. Eutychius the patriarch observes, that the Saracens fought withthe courage of lions; they repulsed the frequent and almost daily sallies of the be­sieged, and soon assaulted in their turn the walls and towers of the city. In eve­ry attack, the sword, the banner of Amrou, glittered in the van of the Moslems.On a memorable day, he was betrayed by his imprudent valour: his followerswho had entered the city were driven back; and the general, with a friend and aslave, remained a prisoner in the hands of the Christians. When Amrou wasconducted before the prefect, he remembered his dignity and forgot his situation:a lofty demeanour, and resolute language, revealed the lieutenant of the caliph,and the battle-axe of a soldier was already raised to strike off the head of theaudacious captive. His life was saved by the readiness of his slave, who instant­ly gave his master a blow on the face, and commanded him, with an angry tone,to be silent in the presence of his superiors. The credulous Greek was deceived;he listened to the offers of a treaty, and his prisoners were dismissed in the hopeof a more respectable embassy, till the joyful acclamations of the.camp announcedthe return of their general, and insulted the folly of the infidels. At length, aftera siege of fourteen nionths,(l) and the loss of three-and-twenty thousand men,the Saracens^prevailed: the Greeks embarked their dispirited and diminishednumbers, and the standard of Mahomet was planted on the walls of the capital ofEgypt. *' I have taken," said Amrou to the caliph, " the great city of the west.It'is impossible for me to enumerate the variety of its riches and beauty; and Ishall content myself with observing, that it contains four thousand palaces, fourthousand baths, four hundred theatres or places of amusement, twelve thousandshops for the sale of vegetable food, and forty thousand tributary Jews. Thetown has been subdued by force of arms, without treaty or capitulation, and theMoslems are impatient to seize the fruits of their victory. "(2) The commanderof the faithful rejected with firmness the idea of pillage, and directed his lieute­nant to reserve the wealth and revenue of Alexandria for the public service andthe propagation of the faith: the inhabitants were numbered; a tribute was im­posed; the zeal and resentment of the Jacobites were curbed, and the Melchites,who submitted to the Arabian yoke, were indulged in the obscure but tranquil ex­ercise of their worship. The intelligence of this disgraceful and calamitous eventafflicted the declining health of the emperor; and Heraclius died of a dropsyabout seven weeks after the loss of Alexandria. (3) Under the minority of hisgrandson, the clamours of a people, deprived of their daily sustenance, com­pelled the Byzantine court to undertake the recovery of the capital of Egypt.In the space of four years, the harbour and fortifications of Alexandria weretwice occupied by a fleet and army of Romans. They were twice expelled bythe valour of Amrou, who was recalled by the domestic peril from the distantwars of Tripoli and Nubia. But the facility of the attempt, the repetition of theinsult, and the obstinacy of the resistance, provoked him to swear, that if a thirdtime he drove the infidels into the sea, he would render Alexandria as accessibleon all sides as the house of a prostitute. Faithful to his promise, he dismantledseveral parts of the walls and towers, but the people were spared in the chas­tisement of the city, and the mosch of Mercy was erected on the spot where thevictorious general had stopped the fury of his troops. I should deceive the expectation of the reader, if I passed in silence the fate ofthe Alexandrian library, as it is described by the learned Abulpharagius. Thespirit of Amrou was more curious and liberal than that of his brethren, and inhis leisure hours, the Arabian chief was pleased with the conversation of John,the last disciple of Ammonius, and who derived the surname of P/iilofionus from (1) Both Eutychius (Anna), torn. ii. p. 319.) and Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 23.) concur in fixine; thetaking of A lexandria to Friday uf the new moon of Muharram of the twentieth year of the Hejrira (Decem­ber 22. A. D. 640.) In reckoning backwards fourteen months spent belore Alexandria, seven months beforeBabylon, &c. Amrou rni^ht have invaded Krjypt about the end of the year 633; hut we are assured that becn-teied the country the twelfth ot Bavni. sixth of June (Murtadi Merveilles de i'Efrypte, p. 164. Sev.-rus, apudRenaudut. p. 152.) Tiie Saracen, and afterwards Louis IX. of France, halted at Pelusiunj, or Damietta, duringthe season of the inundation of the Nile. (2) Kutych. Annal. torn. ii. p. 316. 319. (3) Notwithstanding some inconsistencies of Theophanes and Cedrenus, the accuracy of Pie^t (Critica, tout,ii. p. 824.) (.as estraeted from Nicephorus and the Chronicon Orientale the true date of the death uf Heraclius,February 11. A. D. 641, fifty daysafter the lost of Alexandria. A foartn of that time was sufficient to conreythe intelligence.