OCR Output 10 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. tions prior to this, and even this, the most celebrated of allthat ever happened, are plainly found to have been less in re­ality than they are in fame or current estimation at presentthrough poetical assistance./ Nor did the prosperous event of the Trojan expedition put/ an end to the unsettled and fluctuating state of Greece, orsecure that tranquillity so necessary to advancement. Thereturn of the Grecians from Ilium, after so long-an absence,gave rise to many innovations. Seditions were excited inalmost every city; and those who were forced to withdraw,built cities for themselves in other places. The present Boeo­tians, for instance, being driven out of Arne by the Thessa-lians, sixty years after the taking of Troy, planted them­selves in the country now called Boeotia, though before thattime Cadmeis: But a body of them had already seated them­selves there, of whom were those who went in the expeditionagainst Troy: And eighty years after it, the Dorians with theHeraclidae took possession of Peloponnesus. It was notwithout much ado and length of time, that Greece quiet andsettled at home had opportunity to send colonies abroad.Then the Athenians planted Ionia and most of the islands;the Peloponnesians the greatest part of Italy and Sicily, andeven some colonies in the different tracts of Greece. But allthese transactions are of a later date than the Trojan war. But when once the state of Greece was grown more ro­bust, and increase of wealth became their study more thanever before, as the public revenues grew apace, in manyplaces tyrannies started up: For before this kingdoms werehereditary and with limited authority. Now Greece through­out was employed in building navies, and became addictedto naval affairs with unusual application. The Corinthiansare said to have been the first, who by varying the make oftheir ships, brought them to that model which is now in use,and Corinth to be the first place of Greece where triremes* ' The triremes were the ships of war, of the galley kind, and take theirname from the three banks of oars with which they were furnished. They