OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35? In his palace of Constantinople or Antioch, he was awakened by the invasion ofSyria, the loss of Bosra, and the danger of Damascus. An army of seventy thou­sand veterans, or new levies, was assembled at Hems, or Emesa, under the com­mand 'of his general Werdan;(l) and these troops, consisting chiefly of cavalry,might be indifferently styled either Syrians, or Greeks, or Romans: Syrians, fromthe place of their birth or warfare; Greeks, from the religion and language oftheir sovereign; and Romans, from the proud appellation which was still profanedby the successors of Constantine. ' On the plain of Aiznadin, as Wajran rodeon a white mule decorated with gold chains, and surrounded with<^nens andstandards, ft% was surprised by the near approach of a fierce and naked-warrior,who had undertaken to view the state of the enemy. The adventurous valour ofDerar was inspired, and has perhaps been adorned, by the enthusiasm of his ageand country. The hatred of the Christians, the love of spoil, and the contemptof danger, were the ruling passions of the audacious Saracen; and the prospect ofinstant death could never shake his religious confidence; or ruffle the calmness ofhis resolution, or even suspend the frank and martial pleasantry of his humour.In the most hopeless enterprise, he was bold, and prudent, and fortunate: after in­numerable hazards, after being thrice a prisoner in the hands of the infidels, hestill survived to relate the achievements, and to enjoy the rewards, of the Sy­rian conquest. On this occasion, his single lance maintained a flying fight againstthirty Romans, who were detached by Werdan; and after killing or unhorsing se­venteen of their number, Derar returned in safety to his applauding brethren.When his rashness was mildly censured by the general, he excused himself withthe simplicity of a soldier. " Nay," said Derar, " I did not begin first: but theycame out to take me, and I was afraid that God should see me turn my back: andindeed I fought in good earnest, and without doubt God assisted me against them;and had I not been apprehensive of disobeying your orders, I should not havecome away as I did; and I perceive already that they will fall into our hands." Inthe presence of both armies, a venerable Greek advanced from the ranks with aliberal offer of peace; and the departure of the Saracens would have been pur­chased by a gift to each soldier of a turban, a robe, and a piece of gold; ten robes,and a hundred pieces to their leader; one hundred robes, and a thousand pieces tothe caliph. A smile of indignation expressed the refusal of Caled. " Ye Chris­tian dogs, you know your option: the Koran,' the tribute, or the sword. We area people whose delight is in war, rather than in peace; and we despise your pitifulalms, since we shall speedily be masters of your wealth, your families, and yourpersons." Notwithstanding this apparent disdain, he was deeply conscious of thepublic danger: those who had been in Persia, and had seen the armies of Chosroes,confessed that they never beheld a more formidable array. From the superiorityof the enemy, the artful Saracen derived a fresh incentive of courage. " You seebefore you," said he, '* the united force of the Romans: you cannot hope to escape,but you may conquer Syria in a single day. The event depends on your disciplineand patience. Reserve yourselves till the evening. It was in the evening that theprophet was accustomed to vanquish." During two successive engagements, histemperate firmness sustained the darts of the enemy, and the murmurs of histroops. At length, when the spirits and quivers of the adverse line were almostexhausted, Caled gave the signal of onset and victory. The remains of the im­perial army fled to Antioch, or Ciesarea, or Damascus; and the death of four hun­dred and seventy Moslems, was compensated by the opinion that they had sent tohell above fifty thousand of the infidels. The spoil was inestimable; many ban­ners and crosses of gold and silver, precious stones, silver and gold chains, and in­numerable suits of the richest armour and apparel. The general distributionwas postponed till Damascus should be taken: but the seasonable supply of armsbecame the instrument of new victories. The glorious intelligence was transmit­ted to the throne of the caliph, and the Arabian tribes the coldest or most hostileto the prophet's mission, were eager and importunate to share the harvest ofSyria. The sad tidings were carried to Damascus by the speed of grief and terror; andthe inhabitants beheld from their walls the return of the heroes of Aiznadin. Am- (1) The name of Werdan is unknown to Theoplianes, and though it might belong to an Armenian chief,iias very little of a Greek aspect or sound. If the Byzantine historians have mangled the oriental names, theArabs, in this instance, likewise have taken ample revenge on their enemies. In transposing the Greek cha­racter from right to left, might thev not produce, from the familiar appellation of Andrea, something like thesmvgram Werdan-