OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 189 their real and pretended sufferings, nor how many losttheir lives or limbs, their eyes or their beards, by the cru­elty of the emperor. From the chastisement of indivi­duals, he proceeded to the abolition of the order; and,as it was wealthy and useless, his resentment might bestimulated by avarice and justified by patriotism. Theformidable name and mission of the Dragon," his visitor-general, excited the terror and abhorrence of the blacknation: the religious communities were dissolved, thebuildings were converted into magazines, or barracks;the lands, moveables, and cattle, were confiscated; andour modern precedents will support the charge, thatmuch wanton or malicious havoc was exercised againstthe relics, and even the books, of the monasteries. Withthe habit and profession of monks, the public and privateworship of images was rigorously proscribed; and itshould seem, that a solemn abjuration of idolatry wasexacted from the subjects, or at least from the clergy, ofthe eastern empire.'1 state of The patient east abjured, with reluctance, her3' sacred images: they were fondly cherished, andvigorously defended, by the independent zeal of theItalians. In ecclesiastical rank and jurisdiction; thepatriarch of Constantinople and the pope of Rome werenearly equal. But the Greek prelate was a domesticslave under the eye of his master, at whose nod healternately passed from the convent to the throne, andfrom the throne to the convent. A distant and dan­gerous station amidst the barbarians of the west, ex­cited the spirit and freedom of the Latin bishops.Their popular election endeared them to the Romans;the public and private indigence was relieved by their * In the narrative of this persecution from Theophanes and Cedrenns, Spanheim(p. J35—238.) is happy to compare the Draco of Leo with the dragoons ( Dracouei)of Louis XIV. and highly solaces himself with this controversial pun. 6 nfcypaftftct ya.f l^iorf/tx^fi Kara, irarav f£tpxiav T11V ^fl<° TTIf Jt"f0? *mev, irarracirojfa^ai lui a/auia nu aBi-nta-ai rm it^'.a-iunirn TaV mitral luuim. (Damascen. Op.torn. 1. p. 615.) This oath and subscription I do not remember to have seen in anymodern compilation.