OCR Output 26. THE DECLINE AND FALL an aqueduct, were speedily constructed; the public and private edifices were adapt­ed to the greatness of a royal city; and the strength of the walls resisted, duringthe lifetime of Justinian, the unskilful assaults of the Huns and Sclavonians. Theirprogress was sometimes retarded, and their hopes of rapine were disappointed, bythe innumerable castles, which, in the provinces of Dacia, Epirus, Thessaly, Ma­cedonia, and Thrace, Appeared to cover the whole face of the country. Six hun­dred of these forts were built or repaired by the emperor: but it seems reasonableto believe,, that the far greater part consisted only of a stone or brick tower, in themidst of a square or circular area, which was surrounded by a wall and ditch, andafforded in a moment of danger some protection <o the peasants and cattle of theneighbouring villages.(l) Yet these military works, which exhausted the publictreasure, could not remove the just apprehensions of Justinian and his Europeansubjects. The warm baths of Anchialus in Thrace were rendered as safe as theywere salutary; but the rich pastures of Thessalonica were foraged by the Scythiancavalry; the delicious vale of Tempe, three hundred miles from the Danube, wascontinually alarmed by the sound of war;(2) and no unfortified spot, however dis­tant or solitary, could securely enjoy the blessings of peace. The straits of Ther­mopylae, which seemed to protect, but which had so often betrayed, the safety ofGreece, were diligently strengthened by the labours of Justinian. From the edgeof the sea-shore, through theforest and valleys, and as far as the summit of theThessalian mountains, a strong wall was continued, which occupied every practi­cable entrance. Instead of a hasty crowd of peasants, a garrison of two thousandsoldiers was stationed along the rampart; granaries of corn, and reservoirs of wa­ter, were provided for their use; and by a precaution that inspired the cowardicewhich it foresaw, convenient fortresses were erected for their retreat. The wallsof Corinth, overthrown by an earthquake, and the mouldering bulwarks of Athensand Platxa, were carefully restored; the barbarians were discouraged by the pros­pect of successive and painful sieges; and the naked cities of Peloponnesus werecovered by the fortifications of the isthmus of Corinth. At the extremity of Eu­rope, another peninsula, the Thracian Chersonesus, runs three days' journey intothe sea, to form, with the adjacent shores of Asia, the straits of the Hellespont.The intervals between eleven populous towns were filled by lofty woods, fair pas­tures, and arable lands: and the isthmus, or thirty-seven stadia or furlongs, hadbeen fortified by a Spartan general nine hundred years before the reign of Justi­nian. (3) In an age of freedom and valour, the slightest rampart may prevent asurprise; and Procopius appears insensible of the superiority of ancient times, whilehe praises the solid construction and double parapet of a wall, whose long armsstretched on either side into the sea: but whose strength was deemed insufficientto guard the Chersonesus, if each city, and particularly Gallipoli and Sestus, hadnot been secured by their peculiar fortifications. The long wall, as it was em­phatically styled, was a work as disgraceful in the object, as it was respectable^ inthe execution. The riches of a capital diffuse themselves over the neighbouringcountry, and the territory of Constantinople, a paradise of nature, was adorned■with the luxurious gardens and villas of the senators and opulent citizens. Buttheir wealth served only to attract the bold and rapacious barbarians; the noblestof the Romans, in the bosom of peaceful indolence, were led away into Scythiancaptivity, and their sovereign might view, from his palace, the hostile flames whichwere insolently spread to the gates of the imperial city. At the distance only offorty miles, Anastasius was constrained to establish a last frontier; his long wall,of sixty miles from the Propontis to the Euxine, proclaimed the impotence of hisarms; and as the danger became more imminent, new fortifications were added bythe indefatigable prudence of Justinian .(4) Asia Minor, after the submission of the Isaurians,(5) remained without enemiesand without fortifications. Those bold savages, who had disdained to be the sub­jects of Galenius, persisted two hundred and thirty years in a life of independence • (1) These fortifications may be compared to the castles in Mingrelin (Chardin, Voyages en Perse, torn. i. p. 60.131.)—a natural picture. (3) The Talley of Tempe is situate along the river Peneus, between the hills of Oisa and Olympus: it is onlyfive miles long, and in some places no more than one hundred and twenty feet in breadth. Its verdant beau­ties are elegantly described by Pliny. (Hist. Natur. Iib.iv. 15.) and more diffusely by /Elian (Hist. Yar. lib. iii.c. 1.) (3) Xenophon Hellenic, lib. iii. c. 2. Aftera long and tedious conversation with the Byzantine declaimers,how refreshing is the truth, the simplicity, the elegance of an Attic writer 1 (4) See the long wall in Evagrius (lib. iv. c. 38.) This whole article is drawn from the fourth book of theSdr&oes, except Anchialus (lib. iii. c. 7.) (5) In the course of this history, I have sometimes mentioned, and much oftener alighted, the hasty inroadsof the Iiauriaus, which were not attended with any consequences.