OCR Output 346 TIIE S1CARII AT ALEXANDRIA. [B. VIL to assert their liberty, to esteem the Romans to he no betterthan themselves, and to look upon God as their only lord andmaster. But when part of the Jews of reputation opposedthem, they slew some of them, and with the others they werevery pressing in their exhortations to revolt from the Ro­mans ; but when the principal men of the senate saw whatmadness they were come to, they thought it no longer safefor themselves to overlook them. So they got all the Jewstogether to an assembly, and accused the madness of theSicarii, and demonstrated that they had been the authors ofall the evils that had come upon them. They said also, that" these men, now they were ran away from Judea, having nosure hope of escaping, because as soon as ever they shall boknown they will be soon destroyed by the Romans, they comehither, and fill us full of those calamities which belong tothem, while we have not been partakers with them in any oftheir sins." Accordingly, they exhorted the multitude tohave a care lest they should be brought to destruction bytheir means, and to make their apology to the Romans forwhat had been done, by delivering these men up to them;who, being thus apprised of the greatness of the danger theywere in, complied with what was proposed, and ran with greatviolence upon the Sicarii, and seized upon them; and, indeed,six hundred of them were caught immediately; but as to allthose that fled into Egypt,1 and to the Egyptian Thebes, itwas not long ere they were caught also, and brought back,whose courage, or whether we ought to call it madness orhardiness in their opinions, every body was amazed at. Forwhen all sorts of torments and vexations of their bodies thatcould be devised were made use of to them, they could notget any one of them to comply so far as to confess, or seem 1 Since Josephus here informs us, that some of these Sicarii or ruffianswent from Alexandria (which was itself in Egypt, in a large sense) intoEgypt and Thebes, there situated, Reland well observes from Vosius, thatEgypt sometimes denotes Proper or Upper Egypt as distinct from Delta andthe lower parts near Palestine. Accordingly, as he adds, those that say itnever rains in Egypt, must mean the Proper or Upper Egypt, because itdoes sometimes rain in the other parts. See the notes on Antiq. B. ii. ch.vii. sect. 7; and B. iii. ch. i. sect. 6.