OCR Output an. 1097.] 219 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. body after the victory, supposing that thebattle with the enemy succeeded to theirmind: which promise of honour and confi­dence he made on purpose to increase hiszeal for his service. Now Saul, the king of the Hebrews, hadcast out of the country the fortune-tellers, thenecromancers, and all such as exercised thelike arts; excepting the prophets. But whenhe heard the Philistines were already come,and had pitched their camp very near to thecity Shunem, situate in the plain, he hastenedto oppose them with his forces. And whenhe was come to a certain mountain calledGilboa, he pitched his camp over against theenemy. But when he saw the enemy's armyhe was greatly troubled; because it appearedto him to be numerous, and superior to hisown; and he inquired of God, by the pro­phets, concerning the battle, that he mightknow beforehand what would be the event.And when God did not answer him, Saul wasunder a still greater dread, and his couragefell; foreseeing, as was but reasonable to sup­pose, that mischief would befall him, nowGod was not there to assist him. Yet did hebid his servants to inquire for some womanthat was a necromancer, and called up thesouls of the dead; that so he might knowwhether his affairs would succeed to his mind.For this sort of necromantic women, whobring up the souls of the dead, do by themforetel future events to such as desire them.And one of his servants told him, that therewas such a woman in the city Endor, but shewas known to nobody in the camp. Here­upon Saul put off his royal apparel, and tooktwo of those servants whom he knew to bemost faithful to him, and came to Endor to thewoman, and intreated her to act the part of afortune-teller, and to bring up such a soul tohim as he should name. But the woman op­posed his motion; and said, she did not de­spise the king, who had banished this sort offortune-tellers; and that he did not do wellhimself when she had done him no harm, to endeavour to lay a snare for her, and to dis­cover she exercised a forbidden art, in orderto procure her to be punished. Saul, how­ever, sware that nobody should know whatshe did; and that he would not tell any oneelse what she foretold; but that she shouldincur no danger. As soon, therefore, as hehad induced her by this oath to fear no harm,he bade her bring up to him the soul ofSamuel. She not knowing who Samuel was,called him out of Hades. When he appeared,and the woman saw one that was venerable,and of a divine form, she was in disorder;and being astonished at the sight, she said,"Art not thou king Saul?" for Samuel hadinformed her who he was. When he hadowned that to be true, and had asked her,whence her disorder arose? she said that shesaw a certain person ascend, who in his formwas like to a god. And when he bade hertell him what he resembled; in what habithe appeared; and of what age he was; shetold him he was an old man, and of a gloriouspersonage, and had on a sacerdotal mantle.*So the king discovered by these signs that hewas Samuel; and he fell down upon theground, and saluted, and worshipped him.And when the soul of Samuel asked him,why he had disturbed him, and caused himto be brought up, he lamented the necessityhe was under: for, he said, his enemiespressed heavily upon him; that he was indistress what to do in his present circum­stances; that he was forsaken of God, andcould obtain no prediction of what wascoming, neither by prophets, nor by dreams.And these were the reasons why he had re­course to him. Butf Samuel seeing the endof Saul's life was come, said, "It is in vainfor thee to desire to learn of me any thingfarther, when God hath forsaken thee. How­ever, hear what I say:—David is to be king,and to finish this war with good success, andthou art to lose thy dominion and thy life;because thou didst not obey God in the warwith the Amalekites, and hast not kept his * 1 Sara zxviii. 14. t This history of Saul's consultation, not with a witch,as we render the Hebrew word here; but with a necro­mancer, as the whole history shews, is easily understood;especially, if we consult the recognitions of Clement, 1.5. 11. 13. at large; and more briefly, and nearer the daysof Samuel, Ecclus. xlvi. 20. "Samuel prophesied afterhis death; and shewed the king his end; and lift up hisvoL. I.—NOS. 19 Jj 20. voice from the earth in prophecy, to blot out the wicked­ness of the people." Nor does the exactness of the ac­complishment of this prediction the very next day, permitus to suppose any imposition upon Saul in the presenthistory. For as to all modern hypotheses, against thenatural sense of such ancient and authentic histories, 1consider them of very small value or importance. Xx