OCR Output 290 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. by night into Argia. They afterwards passed undiscoveredbetwixt the city of the Argians, and the post of the Acarna-nians at Crenae, and so perfected their junction with the Am-braciots at Olpae. After this junction, their numbers beinglarge, they take possession next morn, at break of day, of apost called Metropolis, and there fix their encampment. Not long after this the Athenian squadron of twenty sailcomes into the bay of Ambracia, to succour the Argians.Demosthenes also arrived, with two hundred heavy-armedMessenians, and sixty Athenian archers. The station ofthe fleet was fixed under the fort of Olpae. But the Acar-nanians, and some few of the Amphilochians, who had al­ready gathered into a body at Argos (for the majority ofthem was obstructed by the Ambraciots), got every thing inreadiness to engage the enemy. They elect Demosthenes tobe the commander of the whole associated force, with theassistance of their own generals. He caused them to ad­vance near Olpae, and there encamped them. A great hol­low lay between the armies. For five days they remainedm a state of inaction, but on the sixth both sides drew up inorder of battle. The Peloponnesians were more numerous,and their line of course was further extended. Demos­thenes therefore, that he might not be inclosed, placeth anambuscade of the heavy and light-armed, to the number inall of about four hundred, in a hollow way overgrown withshrubs and bushes, with orders that in the heat of the chargethey should rise up and attack the over extended line of theenemy in their rear. When all things were ready on bothaides, they came to blows. Demosthenes led the right wing,composed of the Messenians, and his few Athenians. Theother consisted of the Acarnanians, drawn up in the orderthey happened to fall into as they came up, and the Am-philochian darters who were at hand. But the Peloponne­sians and Ambraciots were drawn up promiscuously, exceptthe Mantineans. The Mantineans stood embodied ratherto the left, but not in the extremity : For Eurylochus, with a