OCR Output MARATHON. 207 MARATHON. M.VRATHON (Mapaduv: Kth. MapaB&iHos), asmall plain in the NE. of Attica, containing fourplaces, named Makatiiox, Probalinthls {TlpoSd-Airtfos: Eth.Tlpo€a\t<rtos), TRicoRYTiits(Tp»e<i-pv#at, or Tpuvopvvdor. Tpued^i^of: £/A. Tpucopv-ffioi). and Oesok (Otrrf*: £fA. Olvmos), whichoriginally formed the Tetrapolis. one of the 12 dis­tricts into which Attica was divided before the timeof Theseus. Here Xnthns, who married the daughterof Erec lit bens, is said to have reigned; and here theHeracleidae took refuge when driven out of Pelorwn-n**Mis, and defeated Eurysthcus. (Strab. viii. p. 383:Steplu B. *. r. TtrydwoKts.) The Marathonii claimedto be the first people in Greece who paid divine ho­nours to Hercnles, who possessed a sanctuary in theplain, of which we shall speak presently. (Pans. i.15. § 3, i- 35. § 4,) Marathon is also celebrated inthe legends of Thrseus, who conquered the ferociousball, which used to devastate the plain. (Pint. Thes.14; Strah. is. p. 399: Pans. i. 27. § 10.) Marathonis mentioned in the Homeric poems in a way thatimp!:** that it was then a place of importance. (Od.vii. 80.) Its name was derived from an eponymoushero Marathon, who is described by Pausamas as a•on of Epopeus, king of Sicyon, who fled into Atticain conse*juence of the cruelty of his father (Paus.n. I- § I, ii. 6. § 5, i. 15. § 3, i. 32. § 4). Plu­tarch calls him an Arcadian, who accompanied theLH.*curi in their expedition into Attica, and volun­tarily devoted himself to death before the battle.{Tka. 32.) After Theseus united the 12 independent districts•f Attica into one state, the name of Tetrapolisgradually fell infci disuse; and the four places ofwhich it consisted became Attic demi, — Mara­thon. Tricorythus. and Oenoe belonging to the tribeAeantU, and Probalinthus to the tribe Pandionis;but Marathon was so superior tn the other three, thatits name was applied to the whole district down tothe latest times. Hence Luvian speaks of u theparts of Marathon about Oencw" (MapaBwvos rdwfpl t^f Oir6ijvy Icaro-Memp. 18). Few places have obtained such celebrity in thehistory of the world as Marathon, on account of thevictory which the Athenians here gained over thePersians in b. c. 490. Hence it is necessary to givea ik-toilcd account of the topography of the p'ain, inwhich we Khali follow the admirable description ofColonel Leake, drawing a little additional information^from Mr. Finlay and other writers. The plain of Marathon is open to a bay of the seaon the east, and is shut in on the opposite side byths heights of Brilcssus (subsequently called Pente-Lcu-v) and Diacria, which send forth roots extendingto the sea. and bounding the plain to the north andaoath. The principal shelter of the bay is affordedby a long rocky promontory to the north, ancientlycalled Cy?ro«CRA (Kvvfoovpa, Hesych.. Phot., *. r.)xrwl now Stomi. The plain is about 6 miles in lengthand half that breadth in its broadest part. It issomewhat in the form of a half-moon, the innercarve of which U bounded by the hay, and the outerby the ranre of mountains already described. Theplain, d^cribed by Aristophanes as the "pleasantend d( Marathon" (A#»/uuea rot- ip6(vra Mapa-•*»*». Aers, 246), is a level green expanse. Thebat, which shot in the plain, were covered in an­cient times with olives and vines (Nonn. Diovt/s.xm. 84, xlviii. 18). The plain is bounded ata: ru southern and northern extremities by twocunhw, of which the southern is not large and is almost dry at the conclusion of the great heats;while the northern, which is much larger, offersseveral parts which are at all seasons impass­able. Both, however, have a broad, firm, sandy beachbetween them and the sea. A river, now called theriver of Marathdna, flows through the centre of theplain intevthe sea. There are four roads leading out of the plain.1. One runs along the coast by the south-western ex­tremity of the plain. (Plan, aa.) Here the plain ofMarathon opens into a narrow maritime plain threemiles in length, where the mountains fall so gra­dually towards the sea as to present no very defensibleimpediment to the communication between the Ma­rat honia and the Mesogaea. The road afterwardspasses through the valley between Pentelicns andHymettus, through the ancient demus of Pallene.This is the most level road to Athens, and the onlyone practicable for carriages. It was the one bywhich Peisistratus marched to Athens after landingat Marathon. (Herod, i. 62.) 2. The second roadruns through the pass of Vrand, so called from asmall village of this name, situated in the southernof the two valleys, which branch otf from the in­terior of the plain. (Plan, 66.) This road leadsthrough Cephisia into the northern part of the plainof Athens. 3. The third road follows the vale ofMarafhdna, the northern of the two valleys alreadynamed, in which lies the village of the same name,the largest in the district. (Plan, cc.) The twovalleys are separated from one another by a hillcalled Kotroni (Plan, 3), very rugged, but of nogreat height. This third road leads to Aphidna,from which the plain of Athens may also boreached. 4. The fourth road leaves the plain onthe north-east by a narrow pass (Plan, dd)between the northern marsh and a round nakedrocky height called Ml. Kordki or Stavrokordki.(Plan, 4.) It leads to Rhamnus; and at the en­trance of the pass stands the village of Lower Stilt.(Plan, 12.) Three places in the Marathonian district particu­larly retain vestiges of ancient demi. 1. Vrandfwhich Leake supposes to be the site of the demus ofMarathon. It lies upon a height fortified by theravine of a torrent, which descends into the plainafter flowing between Mts.ArgaliHs.uA AJbrismo,which are parts of Mt. Brilcssus or Pentelicus.(Plan. 1,2.) A little below Vrand are seen fourartificial tumuli of earth, one considerably largerthan the others; and in a pass at the back of thehill of Kotr*mi, which leads from the vale of Vrandinto that of Marathona, there are some remains ofan ancient gate. Near the gate are the foundationsof a wide wall, 5 feet in thickness, which aretraced for nearly 3 miles in circumference, en­closing all the upper part of the valley of Vrand.These ruins are now known by the name of 17fidrSpa rijy ypalas (the. old woman's sheepfold).Near the ruined gate Leake observed the remainsof three statues, probably those which were erectedby Herodes Atticus to throe favourite servants.(Philostr. Soph. ii. 1. §10) Marathon was thedemus of Herodes, who also died there. The wallmentioned above was probably built by Herodes, toenclose his property; for it would seem from Plinythat Marathon no longer exi.-ted as a town orvillage a century before the time of Herodes.(" Rhamnus pagus, locus Marathon," Plin. iv. 7.s. 11.) The early disappearance of the ancient townof Marathon would easily cause its name to he