OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 23S Page 57. Ar.d that Bacchus himself appeared as their leader.^The following Ptatonic dogma, which belongs to the greatestarcana of ancient Wisdom, solves all that appears to be so absurdend ridiculous to the atheistical and superficial in such-like histo­rical relations as the present. Every deity beginning from onhigh, produces his own proper series to the last of things; andthis series comprehends in itself mary essences differing from eachOther. Thus, for instance, the Sun produces Angelical, De­moniacal, Heroical, Nymphical, Panical, and such-like powers, eachof which subsists according to a solar characteristic: and the famereasoning must be applied to every other divinity. All thesepowers are the perpetual attendants of the Gcds, but they havenot all of them an essence wholly superior to man. For asteressential Heroes an order of souls follows, who proximately go­vern the affairs of men, and are dxmoniacal xxra axMl1i accordingto habitude or alliance, but not essentially. Of this kind are theNymphs that sympathize with waters, Pans with the feet ofgoats, and the like: and they d'sser from those powers that arcessentially of a dæmoniacal characteristic, in this, that they assumea variety of shapes (each of the others immutably preseiving oneform), are subject to various passions, and are the causes of all-various deception to mankind. Proclus in Schol. MSS. in Cra-tylum observes, that the Minerva which so often appeared toUlysses and Tclemachus was of this latter kind, on xai ir*si(Tfayoo-xtXti;, xcu aSwaix&t ^v^ai ^n[xa<rt Troiw^fi*; p^w/Aiyai, xat not Tu TiXipaxu i. e. *' There are Pans with the feet of goats, and Minerval fouls assuming a variety of shapes, and prox­imately governing mankind; such as wa3 the Minerva that ap­peared to Ulysses and Tclemachus," The Bacchus therefore,that appeared to the Lacedæmonians in the war mentioned byPausanias, must be considered as belonging to one of the orders©f those powers we have just enumerated, Page