OCR Output 346 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. pared with all the pomp and sensuality of the East:xx, the hall resounded with cheerful music, and the com­pany was already heated with wine; when the countretired for an instant, drew his sword, and gave thesignal of the murder. A robust and desperate Bar­barian instantly rushed on the king of Armenia; andthough he bravely defended his life with the firstweapon that chance offered to his hand, the table ofa. d. 374. the Imperial general was stained with the royal bloodof a guest, and an ally. Such were the weak andwicked maxims of the Roman administration, that, toattain a doubtful object of political interest, the lawsof nations, and the sacred rites of hospitality, wereinhumanly violated in the face of the world *.v. The V. During a peaceful interval of thirty years, theConquests Romans secured their frontiers, and the Goths ex-of Her- tended their dominions. The victories of the greatHermanricf, king of the Ostrogoths, and the mostnoble of the race of the Amali, have been compared,by the enthusiasm of his countrymen, to the exploitsof Alexander: with this singular, and almost incre­dible, difference, that the martial spirit of the Gothichero, instead of being supported by the vigour ofyouth, was displayed with glory and success in theextreme period of human life; between the age offourscore and one hundred and ten years. The in­dependent tribes were persuaded, or compelled, toacknowledge the king of the Ostrogoths as the sove­reign of the Gothic nation: the chiefs of the Visi­goths, or Thervingi, renounced the royal title, andassumed the more humble appellation of Judges;and, among those judges, Athanaric, Fritigern, andAlavivus, were the most illustrious, by their personalmerit, as well as by their vicinity to the Roman pro- • See in Ammianus (xxx. 1.) the adventures of Para. .(. The concise account of the reign and conquests of Hermanric seems to beone of the valuable fragments which Jornandcs (c. 28.) borrowed from theGothic histories of Ablavius, or Cassiodorius.