OCR Output 21 LIVY. happened, occasioned principally by a sudden erilp»tion of the townsmen during the fight: but Camillus,making part of his troops face about, not only drovethem within the walls, but, after utterly discomfitingboth themselves and their allies, took the city thesame day by scalade. It was then resolved, theirtroops being flushed with victory, that they shouldproceed until they had made an intire conquest of allLatium. This plan they prosecuted without intermis­sion, making themselves masters of some of the townsby force, and of others by capitulation, reducing theintire country to subjection. Then leaving garrisonsin the conquered places, they returned to Rome to en­joy the triumph to which all men allowed they werejustly intitled. To a triumph was added the honor ofhaving equestrian statues erected to them in the fo­rum, a compliment very rare in that age. Before theassembly for electing consuls was called for the en­suing year, Camillus moved the senate to take intoconsideration the conduct to be observed towards thestates of Latium, and proceeded in this manner: ' Con­script fathers, whatever was to be eflected in Latiumby means of arms and military operations has now,through the favor of the gods, and the valor of yoursoldiers, been fully accomplished. The armies of ourenemies have been cut to pieces at Pedum and theAstura ; all the towns of Latium and Antium in theVolscian territory, either taken by storm or surren­dered, are held by your garrisons. It remains thento be considered, since the frequent rebellious of thesepeople are the cause of so much trouble, by whatmeans we may secure their quiet submission andpeaceable behavior. The attainment of this end theimmortal gods have placed within your reach, inso­much that they have given you the power of deter­mining whether Latium shall longer exist or not. Youcan therefore insure to yourselves perpetual peace, asfar as regards the Latines, by the means either of se­verity or of mercy. Do you choose to adopt cruelmeasures against people vanquished, and submitting to