OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 133 with my single body? You yourselves, here in Spain,when my father and uncle, your two generals, wereslain, chose Septimus Marcius your leader against theCarthaginians, exulting in their late victory. I men­tion this as if Spain would have been without a leader;but would Marcus Silanus, who was sent into the pro­vince, invested with the same privileges, the samecommand with myself; would my brother Lucius Sci-pio, and Caius Laelius, lieutenants-general, be wantingto avenge the majesty of the empire? Could eitherthe armies, or the leaders, or their dignity, or theircause, admit of a comparison? And even if you weresuperior to all these, would you bear arms on the sideof the Carthaginians, against your country, againstyour countrymen? Would you wish that Africashould rule over Italy, Carthage over the city ofRome? And for what fault, I would ask, of your na­tion? 29. ' Coriolanus, provoked by a grievous and unde­served banishment to take up arms against his oppres­sors, yielded, however, to the call of duty to a parent,and refrained from committing parricide on his country.What grief, what anger had incited you? Was thedelay of your pay for a few days, and while your ge­neral was sick, sufficient reason for declaring waragainst your native land? to revolt from the Romanpeople to the Illergetians? to leave no obligation, di­vine or human, unviolated? Soldiers, the truth is,you have been mad; nor was the disorder whichseized my body more violent than that which seizedyour minds. It shocks me to mention what such menbelieved, what they hoped, what they wished. Butlet all those matters be buried in oblivion, if possible;if not, let them however be covered in silence. Idoubt not but my language may appear to you severeand harsh; yet how much more harsh your actionsthan my words! Do you think it reasonable that Ishould bear the facts which you have committed, andthat you should not have patience to hear them men­tioned? But even with these things you shall be re­