OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 317 than pious had announced that-the banishment of the consulCinna and of the six tribunes of the people adhering to himwould restore peace and tranquillity to the country; and, inconformity not with the constitution but with this counsel ofthe gods fortunately laid hold of by the custodiers of oracles,the consul Cinna was by decree of the senate deprived ofhis office, Lucius Cornelius Merula was chosen in his stead,and outlawry was pronounced against the chiefs who hadfled. It seemed as if the whole crisis were about to endin a few additions to the number of the men who wereexiles in Numidia. Beyond doubt nothing further would have come of the move- The Cin-ment, had not the senate with its usual remissness omitted °™s into compel the fugitives to quit Italy as soon as possible, y"and had there not been a possibility that the latter might,as the champions of the emancipation of the new burgesses,renew in their own favour to some extent the revolt of theItalians. "Without obstruction they appeared in Tibur, inPraeneste, in all the important communities of new burgessesin Latium and Campania, and asked and obtained every­where money and men for the furtherance of the commoncause. Thus supported, they made their appearance amongthe army besieging Nola. The armies of this period weredemocratic and revolutionary in their views, wherever thegeneral did not attach them to himself by his personal in­fluence; the speeches of the fugitive magistrates, some ofwhom, especially Cinna and Sertorius, were favourablyremembered by the soldiers in connection with the lastcampaigns, made a deep impression; the unconstitutionaldeposition of the popular consul and the interference of thesenate with the rights of the sovereign people told on thecommon soldier, and the gold of the consul or rather of thenew burgesses made the breach of the constitution clear tothe officers. The Campanian army recognized Cinna asconsul and swore the oath of fidelity to him man by man;it became a nucleus for the bands that flocked in from thenew burgesses and even from the allied communities; aconsiderable army, though consisting mostly of recruits,soon moved from Campania towards the capital. Otherbands approached it from the north. On Cinna's invitationthose who had been banished in the previous year hadlanded at Telamon on the Etruscan coast. There were notmore than some 500 armed men, for the most part slaves