OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 239 their tyrants; and such was their indigence after theloss and usurpation of the ecclesiastical patrimonies,that they could neither support the state of a prince,nor exercise the charity of a priest." The influence oftwo sister prostitutes, Marozia and Theodora, wasfounded on their wealth and beauty, their political andamorous intrigues; the most strenuous of their loverswas rewarded with the Roman mitre, and their reign0may have suggested to the darker agesp the fableq of afemale pope/ The bastard son, the grandson, and thegreat grandson, of Marozia, a rare genealogy, wereseated in the chair of St. Peter, and it was at the ageof nineteen years that the second of these became thehead of the Latin church. His youth and manhoodwere of a suitable complexion; and the nations of pil­grims could bear testimony to the charges that wereurged against him in a Roman synod, and in the pre- n The oppression and vices of the Roman church in the tenth century arestrongly painted in the history and legation of Liutprand; (see p. 440. 450. 471—47&, 479, &c.) and it ia whimsical enough to observe Muratori temperingthe invectives of Baronius against the popes. But these popes had been chosen,not by the cardinals, but by lay-patrons. • The time of pope Joan (pupusa Joanna) is placed somewhat earlier than Theo­dora or Marozia; and the two years of her imaginary reign are forcibly insertedbetween Leo IV. and Benedict III. But the contemporary Anastasius indissolu-bly links the death of Leo and the elevation of Benedict: (iUico, mox, p. 247.)and the accurate chronology of Pagi, Muratori, and Leibnitz, fixes both events tothe year 867. P The advocates for pope Joan produce one hundred and fifty witnesses, or ra­ther echoes, of the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries. They bear tes­timony against themselves and the legend, by multiplying the proof that so curi­ous a story must have been repeated by writers of every description to whom itwas known. On those of the ninth and tenth centuries, the recent event wouldhave flashed with a double force. Would Photius have spared such a reproach?Could Liutprand have missed such scandal'! It is scarcely worth while todiscussthe various readings of Martinus Folonus, Sigebert of Gemblouis, or even Maria-nus Scotus; but a most palpable forgery is the passage of pope Joan, which hasbeen foisted into some MSS. and editions of the Roman Anastasius. 1 As fatte, it deserves that name; but I would not pronounce it incredible.Suppose a famous French chevalier of our own times to have been born in Italy,and educated in the church, instead of the army: her merit nr fortune might havoraised her to St. Peter's chair; her amours would have been natural; her deliveryin the streets unlucky, but not improbable. 'Till the Reformation, the tale was repeated and believed without offence; andJoan's female statue long occupied her place among the popes in the cathedral ofSienna. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 624—6?6.) She has been annihilated bytwo learned Protestants, Blondel and Baylo (Dictionnaire Critique, PAPZssE,Poiosus, BLOKDEL); but their brethren were scandalized by this equitable andgenerous criticisrn. Spanheim and Lenfant attempt to save this poor engine ofcontroversy; and even Mosheim condescends to cherish some doubt and suspi­cion, (p. 189.)