OCR Output 552 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. as they were able, to preserve the kingdomfor his sons, and for his brother Pheroras. When he had given them this charge, hewent to Rhodes, to meet Caesar. And whenhe had sailed to that city, he took off his dia­dem; but remitted nothing else of his usualdignity. And when, upon his meeting him,he desired that he would let him speak tohim, he therein exhibited a much more no­ble specimen of a great soul. For he didnot betake himself to supplications, as menusually do upon such occasions; nor offeredhim any petition, as if he were an offender:but after an undaunted manner gave an ac­count of what he had done. For he saidthat he had the greatest friendship for An­tony; and did every thing he could that hemight attain the government. That he wasnot indeed in the army with him; becausethe Arabians had diverted him: but that hehad sent him both money and corn; whichwas but too little in comparison of what heought to have done for him. "For," saidhe, "if a man own himself to be another'sfriend, and know him to be a benefactor, heis obliged to hazard every thing, to useevery faculty of his soul, every member ofhis body, and all the wealth he hath, forhim; in which I confess 1 have been too de­ficient. However, I am conscious to myself,that so far I have done right, that I havenot deserted him upon his defeat at Actium:nor upon the evident change of his fortune,have I transferred my hopes from him toanother; but have preserved myself, thoughnot as a valuable fellow-soldier, yet certainlyas a faithful counsellor to Antony; when Idemonstrated to him, that the only way hehad to save himself, and not to lose all hisauthority, was to slay Cleopatra, for whenshe was once dead, there would be room forhim to retain his authority; and rather tobring thee to make a composition with him,than to continue at enmity any longer. He,however, would not attend to my advice;but preferred his own rash resolutions,which have happened unprofitably for him,but profitably for thee. Now therefore, incase thou determinest about me, and myalacrity in serving Antony, according to thyanger at him; I own there is no room forme to deny what I have done, nor will 1 beashamed to own, and that publicly too, that I had a great kindness for him. But if thouwilt put him out of thy case, and only exa­mine how I behave myself to my benefactorsin general; and what a sort of friend I am,thou wilt find by experience that I shalldo and be the same to thyself. For it isbut changing the names, and the firmness offriendship that I shall bear to thee will notbe disapproved by thee." By this speech, and by his behaviour,which shewed Caesar the frankness of hismind, he greatly gained upon him; whowas himself of a generous and magnificenttemper: insomuch that those very actions,which were the foundation of the accusa­tions against him, procured him Caesar'sgood will. Accordingly he restored himhis diadem; and encouraged him to exhibithimself as great a friend to himself as hehad been to Antony; and then had him ingreat esteem. He also added, that QuintusDidius had written to him, that Herod hadvery readily assisted him in the *affair ofthe gladiators. So when he had obtainedsuch a kind reception, and had, beyond allhis hopes, procured his crown to be moreentirely and firmly settled upon him thanever, by Caesar's donation, as well as by thatdecree of the Romans, which was procuredfor his greater security; he conducted Cae­sar on his way to Egypt, and made presentseven beyond his ability, to both him and hisfriends; and in general behaved himself withgreat magnanimity. He also desired thatCaesar would not put to death one Alexan­der, who had been a companion of Antony's:but Caesar had sworn to put him to death:and so he could not obtain that petition.And now he returned to Judea again, withgreater honour and assurance than ever;and affrighted those that had expectationsto the contrary: as still acquiring from hisvery dangers greater splendour than before,by the favour of God to him. So he pre­pared for the reception of Caesar, as he wasgoing out of Syria to invade Egypt: andwhen he came, he entertained him at Ptole-mais with all royal magnificence. He alsobestowed presents on the army, and broughtthem provisions in abundance. He likewiseproved to be one of Caesar's most cordial * See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20.