OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 121 the efforts of the same man that the sovereign rabble of thecapital got itself alimented in return for its cares of govern­ment by the body of its subjects. Gracchus warmly disap­proved the disgraceful spoliation of the provinces, and notonly instituted proceedings of wholesome severity in parti •cular cases, but also procured the abolition of the thoroughlyinsufficient senatorial courts, before which even ScipioJSmilianus had vainly staked his whole influence to bringthe most decided criminals to punishment; yet be at thesame time, by the introduction of courts composed of mer­chants, surrendered the provincials with their hands fetteredto the party of material interests and thereby to a despotismstill more unscrupulous than that of the aristocracy hadbeen, and he introduced into Asia a taxation, compared withwhich even the mode of taxation established after the Car­thaginian model in Sicily might be called mild and humane—both measures to which he was led because he needed onthe one hand the party of moneyed men, and on the otherhand required new and comprehensive resources to meet hisdistributions of grain and other burdens newly imposed onthe finances. Gracchus beyond doubt desired a firm admi­nistration and a regular dispensation of justice, as nume­rous thoroughly judicious ordinances testify; yet his newsystem of administration rested on a continuous series ofindividual usurpations only formally legalized, and heintentionally brought the judicial system—which every well-ordered state would have endeavoured as far as possible toplace, if not above political parties, at any rate aloof fromthem—into the midst of the whirlpool of revolution. Cer­tainly the blame of these conflicting tendencies in GaiusGracchus is chargeable to a very great extent on his positionrather than on himself personally. On the very threshold ofthe Tyrannis he was confronted by the fatal dilemma, moraland political, that the same man had at one and the Bame of Bithynia and of Pontus, and was bought by the latter as the highest bidder(P. 57). In this speech he observes that no senator troubled himself abou*.public affairs for nothing, and adds that with reference to the law under dis­cussion (as to the granting of Phrygia to king Mithradates) the senate wasdivisible into three classes, viz., those who were in favour of it, those whowere against it, and those who were silent: that the first were bribed by kingMithradates, the second by king Nicomedes, while the third were the mostowning, for they accepted money from the envoys of both kings and madeeach party believe that they weie silent in its interest.