OCR Output 178 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. spirit of Caeso Fabius, which formerly appeared great inevery manly exertion, through an excess of glory, wasnow enervated and effeminate. After this, in the city, party prejudice continued dor­mant. The Latins were, however, harassed by the in­roads of the $L'Iui. Coeso was dispatched with an armyto chastise them, and entered their country to make re­prisals. Upon this, the /Equi retired mto their towns,and kept themselves within their walls, for which reasonno remarkable action happened. By the rashness of theother consul, the Roman army suffered severely, in anaction with the Vejentes, and Ijnt for the seasonable in­tervention of Cseso had beeii all cnt to pieces. From this time, with the Vejentes, there was neithersolid peace, nor open war. Tliflir views seemed to ex­tend to rapine and plunder only. Upon the approach ofthe Roman legions, they fled into tl]eir capitol ; and themoment they disappeared, ihey renewed their incursionsupon the Roman territories, evading a general engage­ment, by appearing to be at peare, and all terms of ac­commodation, by repeated acts of hostility: so that thiswar could neither be dropped, nor finally discussed. There were other nations too, as the HL<\u\ and Volsci,who never continuing longer quiet, than till they hadforgot their last loss, were on the |xiint of declarmg war;nor was it improbable that the Sabines, the constantenemies of Rome, and all Etruria would quickly armagainst them. But the Vejentes, who were rather cou-stant, than a formidable enemy, gave them more troubleby their frequent inroads, thnn apprehension of danger,which at uo time could be so far overlooked, as to per­mit their attention to be directed to any other i|narter. Upon this, the Fabian family made a proposal to thesenate, by the mouth of the consul, in name of the rest,to*the following etfect: "Conscript fatliers, to oppose"the enterprises of the Vejentes, as you well know, re-"quires raiher an assiduous than a powerful party."Do ye take care of the other wars, and leave us of the"Fabian family to manage the Vejentes. We under-"take to be the guardians of the majesty of the Roman"name in that quarter. This war, we will carry on at"our private expeoce, as if our family were only coo­