OCR Output an. 1089.] 227 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. give this as the first mark of performance ofthe present league, that he might have hiswife Michal restored to him, as her whom hehad purchased with great hazards, and withthose six hundred heads of the Philistineswhich he had brought to Saul, her father.So Abner took Michal from Phalli el, whowas then her husband, and sent her to David;Ishbosheth himself affording him his assist­ance: for David had written to him that ofright he ought to have his wife restored tohim. Abner also called together the eldersof the multitude, the commanders, and cap­tains of thousands; and spake thus to them,that, He had formerly dissuaded them fromtheir own resolution, when they were readyto forsake Ishbosheth, and to join themselvesto David: that, however, he now gave themleave so to do, if they had a mind to it; forthey knew that God had appointed David tobe king of all the Hebrews, by Samuel theprophet; and had foretold that he shouldpunish the Philistines, and finally overcomethem. Now when the elders and rulers heardthis, and understood that Abner was comeover to those sentiments about the publicaffairs which they were of before, theychanged their measures, and came in toDavid. When these men had agreed to Ab-ner's proposal, he called together the tribeof Benjamin; (for all of that tribe were theguards of Ishbosheth's body;) and spake tothem to the same purpose. And when hesaw that they did not in the least opposewhat he said, but resigned themselves up tohis opinion, he took about twenty of hisfriends, and came to David, in order to re­ceive himself security upon oath from him.For we may justly esteem those things to befirmer which every one of us do by ourselves,than those which we do by another. He alsogave him an account of what he had said tothe rulers, and to the whole tribe of Ben­jamin. And when David had received himin a courteous manner, and had treated himwith great hospitality for many days, Abner,when he was dismissed, desired permissionto bring the multitude with him, that he mightdeliver up the government to him, whenDavid himself was present, and a spectatorof what was done. When David had sent Abner away, Joab,(he general of his army, came immediately to Hebron; and when he had understood thatAbner had been with David, and had partedwith him a little before under an agreement,that the government should be delivered upto David; he feared lest David should placeAbner, who had assisted him to gain the king­dom, in the first rank of dignity; especiallysince he was a shrewd man in other respects;in understanding affairs, and in managingthem artfully, as proper seasons should re­quire; and that he should himself be putlower, and be deprived of the command ofthe army; so he took a knavish and a wickedcourse. In the first place he endeavoured tocalumniate Abner to the king, exhorting himto have a care of him, and not to give atten­tion to what he had engaged to do for him;because all he did tended to confirm thegovernment to Saul's son; that he came tohim deceitfully, and with guile, and was goneaway in hopes of gaining his purposes by thismanagement. But when he could not thuspersuade David, nor saw him at all exas­perated, he betook himself to a project bolderthan the former. He determined to kill Abner;and in order thereto he sent some messengersafter him; to whom he gave in charge, thatwhen they should overtake him, they shouldrecall him in David's name; and tell him, thathe had somewhat to say to him about hisaffairs which he had not remembered to speakof when he was with him. Now when Abner heard what the mes­sengers said, (for they overtook him in a cer­tain place called Bisera, which was distantfrom Hebron twenty furlongs;) he suspectednone of the mischief which was befalling him,and came back. Hereupon Joab met himin the gate; and received him in the kindestmanner, as if he were Abner's most benevo­lent acquaintance and friend; for such as un­dertake the vilest actions, in order to preventthe suspicion of any private mischief, do fre­quently make the greatest pretence to whatgood men do sincerely. So he took him asidefrom his own followers, as if he would speakto him in private, and brought him into a voidplace of the gate; having himself nobody withhim, but his brother Abishai; then he drewhis sword, and smote him in the groin; uponwhich Abner died* by this treachery of voL. r. NOS. 19 & 20. * 2 Sam. iii. 27. Yy