OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 107 infantry, according to some, there were seventy thou­sand led to the city of Silpia. There the two Cartha­ginian generals sat down in an extensive plain, deter­mined not to avoid a battle. 13. When Scipio received the account of the armybeing assembled, he saw plainly that, with the Romanlegions alone, he could not oppose so great a multitude;nor without using the auxiliary troops of the barba­rians, at least for the purpose of making a show ofstrength; but that, at the same time, it was highlyimproper that they should compose such a proportionof his force as might enable them, by changing sides,to produce consequences of importance—an event whichhad caused the destruction of his father and uncle.Sending forward therefore Silanus to Colca, who wassovereign of twenty-eight towns, to receive from himthe horse and foot which he had engaged to raise duringthe winter, he set out himself from Tarraco, and, col­lecting small bodies of auxiliaries from the allies wholay near his road, proceeded to Castulo. Hither Sila­nus brought three thousand auxiliary foot and fivehundred horse. From thence he advanced to the cityof Bascula, his army amounting, in the whole, of hiscountrymen and allies, horse and foot, to forty-fivethousand. While they were forming their camp Magoand Masinissa, with the whole of their cavalry, madean attack on them, and would have dispersed the work­men, had not some horsemen whom Scipio had con­cealed behind a hill, conveniently situated for the pur­pose, suddenly rushed out as they advanced to thecharge. These, at the first onset, routed all who hadpushed on foremost against the men employed in thefortification. The contest with the rest, who advancedon their march drawn up in regular order, was longer,and for some time doubtful. But the light cohortsfrom the outposts, the soldiers called off from theworks, and afterwards greater numbers, who were or­dered to take arms, came up fresh, and engaged thewearied enemy. At the same time a large body rushedin arms from the camp to battle. The Carthaginians