OCR Output . III. WARS OF THE JEWS. He also put his mother in bonds, for her contesting the govern­ment with him; for John had left her to be the governess ofpublic affairs. He also proceeded to that degree of barbarity as,to cause her to be pined to death in prison. 2. But vengeance circumvented him in the affiiir of his bro­ther Antigonus, whom he loved, and whom he made his part­ner in the kingdom; for he slew him by the means of the qalum'--nies which ill men about the palace contrived against him. Atfirst, indeed, Aristobulus would not believe their reports, partlyout of the affection he had for his brother, and partly becausehe thought that a great part of these tales were owing to the en- -vy of their relaters: however, as Antigonus came once in asplendid manner from the army to that festival, wherein ourancient custom is to make tabernacles for God, it happened, illthose days, that Aristobulus was sick, and that, at the conclu­sion of the feast, Antigonus came up to it, with his armed menabout him; and this, when he was adorned in the finest mannerpossible, and that, in a great measure, to pray to God on thebehalf of his brother. Now, at this very time it was that theseill men came to the king, and told him in what a pompous man­ner the armed men came, and with what insolence Antigonusmarched, and that such his insolence was too great for a privateperson, and that accordingly he was come with a great band ofmen to kill him ; for that he could not endure this bare enjoy­ment of royal honour, when it was in his power to take thekingdom himself. 3. Now Aristobulus, by degrees, and unwillingly, gave creditto these accusations ; and accordingly he took care not to disco­ver his suspicion openly, though he provided to be secure againstany accidents : so he placed the guards of his body in a certaindark subterranean passage ; for he lay sick in a place called for­merly the Citadel, though afterwards its name was changed toAntonia; and he ga"ve orders, that if Antigonus came unarmed,they should let him alone ; but if he came to him in his armour,they should kill him. He also sent some to let him know before­hand, that he should come unarmed. But, upon this occasion,the queen very cunningly contrived the matter with those thatplotted his ruin, for she persuaded those that were sent to con­ceal the king's message ; but to tell Antigonus how his brotherhad heard he had got a very fine suit of armour, made with finemartial ornaments, in Galilee ; and because his present sicknesshindered him from coming and seeing all that finery, he verymuch desired to see him now in his armour; because, said he, in3. little time thou art going away from me. 4. As soon as Antigonus heard this, the good temper of hisVOL. III. K k " brother