OCR Output 98 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. he justified with unworthy sophistry. But it was not inthis step that the moral and political mistake of Gracchus'action lay. There are no set forms of high treason in history;whoever provokes one power in the state to conflict withanother is certainly a revolutionist, but he may be at thesame time a sagacious and praiseworthy statesman. Theessential defect of the Gracchan revolution lay in a factonly too frequently overlooked—in the nature of the thenexisting burgess-assemblies. The agrarian law of SpuriusCassius (i. 288) and that of Tiberius Gracchus had in themain the same tenor and the same object; but the enter­prises of the two men were as diverse, as the former Romanburgess-body which shared the Volscian spoil with theLatins and Hernici was different from the present whicherected the provinces of Asia and Africa. The former wasa civic community, which could meet together and acttogether; the latter was a great state, the union of whosemembers in one and the same collective assembly, and theleaving to this assembly the decision, yielded a result aslamentable as it was ridiculous (ii. 342). The fundamentaldefect of the policy of antiquity—that it never fully advancedfrom the civic form of constitution to that of a state or, whichis the same thing, from the system of collective assembliesto a parliamentary system—in this case avenged itself. Thesovereign assembly of Rome was, what the sovereign assemblyin England would be, if instead of sending representativesall the electors of England should meet together as a parlia­ment—an unwieldy body wildly agitated by all interests andall passions, in which intelligence was totally lost; a bodywhich was neither able to take a comprehensive view ofthings nor even to form a resolution of its own ; a body, aboveall, in which, saving in rare exceptional cases, a couple ofhundred or thousand individuals accidentally picked up fromthe streets of the capital acted and voted in name of the bur­gesses. The burgesses found themselves, as a rule, nearlyas satisfactorily represented by their actual representativesin the tribes and centuries as by the thirty lictors who legallyrepresented them in the curies ; and just as what was calledthe decree of the curies was nothing but a decree of the magis­trate who convoked the lictors, so the decree of the tribesand centuries at this time was in substance simply a decreeof the proposing magistrate, legalized by some consentientsassembled for the occasion. But while in these voting­