OCR Output CW..59. ROMAN HISTORY. , 39? A. CHAP. LIX. Anxur taken and plundered by the Soldiers, who aftappointed pay by a decree of the Senate. J.N the mean time, the military tribunes resolved to leadan army against the Volsci. Only Cn. Cornelius wasleft at Home. The other three, fmding that the Volscihad not encamped, and did not seem as if they wouldhazard a battle, divided their forces into three bodies,and laid waste the country on different sides. Valeriusroarched to Antium, and Cornelius to Ecetrse, pillagingthe houses and country all the way, to amuse the Volsci.But Fabius, without stopping to plunder, marched di­rectly to lay srege to Anxmy the principal object of the'expedition. This was .that Anxur, which was after­wards called Terracina. It was situated above a marsh,whence Fabius made a feint of carrying on his attack.Four cohorts were sent round, under the command of C.Servilius Ahala, to take possession of an eminence wnichoverlooked the city: From this eminence, where thetown was not defended, they made an attack upon thewalls, with a prodigious clamour and noise, which quiteconfounded those who defended the lower part of thecity against-Fabius, and gave him an opportunity unob­served to prepare for a scalade. In a moment everycorner was crowded with enemies: and for some time up­on the walls, there was a great slaughter among thosewho fled, as well as those who fought, and among thearmed and unarmed without distinction. Whereforeithe conquered having no hopes of quarter, even shouldthey surrender, were driven by necessity to renew thefight, when all of a sudden it was published aloud, thatnone but such as were found in arms had any thing tofear, which determined the.whole multitude to lay downtheir arms, and surrender at discretion. Two thousand five hundred were made prisoners; butthe rest of the booty Fabius would not sufter to be touch­ed, till his colleagues should come up, representing to his'army, that they had also contributed their share in thetaking of Anxur, in so far as they had prevented theother cities from coming to its relief. When they arriv«S .