OCR Output ITALIA,93 ITALIA. portion containing Samnium (to which the land ofthe Hirpini, included by Augustus in the secondre<:i.fl. was reunited), together with the Krentaniami Pelig-ni; while the land of the Sabines, the Marsi,tad liie Vestini, constituted a separate district, whichtore the name of Valeria, from the great highway,the Via Valeria, by which it was traversed. 2. Theportion of the sixth region which lay between theApennines and the Adriatic (originally inhabited bythe Gauls) was separated from Umbria properly socalled, and distinguished by the name of PicennmAnnooarinm, while the true Picenum was called, forthe »ske of distinction, Picenum Suburbicarium.8. The eighth region, or Gallia Cispadana, was di­vided into two, of which the westernmost portion»*umed the name of Akmilla, from the highroad ofthat name; an appellation which seems to have comeinto common use as early as the time of Martial(iii. 4, vi. 85): while the eastern portion, much theunaller of the two, received that of Fijvminia, thoughthe highroad of that name only extended to Ari-minnm, on the very frontier of this district Thisnew division seems to have been generally united*iih Picenum Annonariiun, though retaining itsseparate name. 4. The Alpes Cottiae, a mountaindatrict which in the time of Augustus had stillretained its nominal independence, though incor-j»>rued with the Roman empire by Nero, seems tohare continued to form a separate district till thetime of Constantine, who united it with the ninthretim, the whole of which now came to be knowna> the Alpes Cottiae: while, still more strangely,the name of Liguria was transferred from thisregion, to which it properly belonged, to the eleventhreiinn. or Gallia Transpadana; so that late writers•peak of Mediolanum as the capital of Lignria.[LiciRiA.] 5. The only other change that re­quires notice was the division of Etruria into twoportions, called Tuscia Annonaria and Tuscia Urbi-earia. This, as well as the similar distinction be­tween the two Picenums, had its origin in the ad-mimatrative arrangements introduced by Maximian,who, when he established the imperial residence atMilan, imposed upon the northern and adjoiningprovinces the task of finding supplies (annonae) fortie imperial court and followers, while the other}**Ufin& ot Italy were charged with similar burdensfar the supply of Rome. (Mommsen. ad Lib. Colpp. 198—200.) Hence Trebcllins Pollio, writingin the reign of Diocletian, after enumerating thedistricts of Southern and Central Italy, comprises•II that lay N. of r'laininia and Etruria under thefwera) appellation of "otlinis annonaria regio."(Treb. Pull. Trig. Tgr. 24.) In addition to these changes, Constantine, in the(T*ial reorganisation of his empire, united to Italythe two provinces of Rhaetia (including Vindelicia),« well as the three great islands of Sicily, Sar­dinia, and Corsica. These last, together with allthe central and southern provinces of Italy, wereplaced under the jurisdiction of the Vicarius UrbisEunae, while all the northern provinces were subjectto the Vicarius Italiae. The minor arrangements*"n to have frequently varied in detail, but the"VHiteen provinces into which the "Dioecesislialtae" was now divided, are thus enumerated inu» Sotitia Dignitatum (ii. pp. 9,10): — 1. Venetia. 2. Aemilia. 3- Li^uria (L e. Gallia Transpadana).4. Klaminia et Picenum Annoiiurimn. 5. Tnscla et Umbria. 6. Picenum Suburbicarium. 7. Campania. 8. Sicilia. 9. Apulia et Calabria. 10. Lucania et Bruttii. 11. Alpes Cottiae (Lignria). 12. Raetia Prima. 13. Raetia Secunda. 14. Samnium, 15. Valeria. 16. Sardinia. 17. Corsica. This list substantially agrees with that in theLibellus Provinciarum (published by Gronovius,Lugd. Bat. 1739), a document of the time ofTheodosius I., as well as with that given by PaulusDiaconus in his geographical description of Italy(Hut. Lang. ii. 14—22), though he has added aneighteenth province, to which he gives the name of"Alpes Apennini;" which can be no other than thenorthern part of Etruria, or Tuscia Annonaria. Ofthe seventeen provinces enumerated in the Notitiaeight were placed under governors who bore thetitle of Consulares, seven under Praesides, and thetwo southernmost under Correctores, a title whichappears to have been at one time common to themall. (For further details on the administrative divisionsof Italy during the latter period of the Roman empire,see the Notitia Dignitatum in Portions Occident!*,Bonn, 1840,with Backing's valuable commentary;Mommsen, lifter oTte Lib. Colon, in the Schriftender Romiscben Fcldmetser, vol. ii. Berlin, 1852;Marquardt, Bandb. der Horn. Alterthumer, vol. iii.pt. 1. pp. 55—71.) The divisions thus established before the close ofthe Western Empire, were continued after its fallunder the Gothic monarchy, and we find them fre­quently alluded to as subsisting under their oldnames in Cassiodorus and Procopius. It was nottill the establishment of the Lombards in Italy thatthis division gave place to one wholly different,which became the foundation of that which subsistedin the middle ages. The Lombards divided thepart of Italy in which they established their power,including all the N., or what is now called Lorn*bardy, together with a part of Tuscany and Umbria,into a number of military fiefs or governments, underthe name of Duchies (Ducatus): the Duchy ofFriuli, Duchy of Verona, Duchy of Pavia, &c. Be­sides those immediately subject to the Lombard kings,two of these were established further to the S.,—theDuchy of Spoleto and Duchy of Benevcnto, whichenjoyed a semi-independent position: and the lostof these was extended by successive conquests fromthe Greek Empire, till it comprised almost thewhole of the S. of Italy, or the modern kingdom ofNaples. The Greek emperors, however, still re­tained possession of the Exarchate of Ravenna, to­gether with the district called the Pentapolis, com­prising a considerable part of Picenum, and whatwas called the Duchy of Rome, including a pnrt ofEtruria and Umbria, as well as Latium. In the S.also they always kept possession of some of themaritime places of Campania, Naples, Oaita, andSalerno, as well as of a part of Calabria, and thecities of Otranto and Gallipoli. After the fall ofthe Lombard kingdom, in a. d. 774, though theyhad now lost their possessions in the N., the Exar­chate and the Pentapolis, the Byzantine emperors