OCR Output 132 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Nor do the laws neglect smaller matters: butprovide that even those be managed after anUnblameahle manner. Let not those that reap, and gather in thecorn that is reaped, gather in the gleaningsalso; but let them rather leave some handfulsfor those that are in want of the necessariesof life; that it may be a support, and a supplyto them, in order to their subsistence. In likemariner when they gather their grapes, letthem leave some smaller bunches for thepoor; and let them pass over some of the fruitsof the olive trees,* when they gather them;and leave them to be partaken by those thathave none of their own. For the advantagesarising from the exact collection of all willnot be so considerable to the owners, as willarise from the gratitude of the poor. AndGod will provide that thejand shall more wil­lingly produce what shall be for the nourish­ment of its fruits, in case you do not merelytake care of your own advantage, but haveregard to the support of others also. Nor areyou to muzzle the mouths of the oxen, whenthey tread the ears of corn, in the threshingfloor:f for it is not just to restrain our fellowlabouring animals, and those that work inorder to its production, of this fruit of theirlabours. Nor are you to prohibit those thatpass by at the time when your fruits are ripe,to touch them; but to give them leave to fillthemselves full of what you have; and thiswhether they be of your own country, orstrangers; as being glad of the opportunityof giving them some part of your fruits whenthey are ripe. But let it not be esteemedlawful for them to carry any a way 4 Nor letthose that gather the grapes, and carry themto the wine-presses, restrain those whom theymeet from eating of them. For it is unjustout of envy to hinder those that desire it, topartake of the good things that come into theworld according to God's will; and this whilethe season is at the height, and is hasteningaway, as it pleases God. Nay, if some out ofbashfulness are unwilling to touch these fruits, let them be encouraged to take of them; Imean those that are Israelites, as if they werethemselves the owners and lords, on accountof the kindred there is between them. Nay,let them desire men that come from othercountries, to partake of these tokens of friend­ship, which God has given in their properseason. For that is not to be deemed as idlyspent, which any one out of kindness commu­nicates to another. Since God bestows plentyof good things on men, not only for themselvesto reap the advantage, but also to give toothers in a way of generosity; and he is de­sirous, by this means, to make known to othershis peculiar kindness to the people of Israel,and how freely he communicates happinessto them, while they abundantly communicateout of their great superfluities to even theseforeigners also. But for him that acts con­trary to this law, let him be beaten|| withforty stripes save one, by the public execu­tioner; let him undergo this punishment,which is a most ignominious one for a freeman; and this because he was such a slaveto gain, as to lay a plot upon his own dignityFor it is proper for you who have had the ex­perience of the afflictions of Egypt, and ofthose in the wilderness, to make provision forthose that are in the like circumstance: andwhile you have now obtained plenty your­selves, through the mercy and providence ofGod, to distribute of the same plenty to suchas stand in need of it. Besides those two tithes, which I havealready said you are to pay every year, oneto the Levites, the other for the festivals; youare to bring every third year a third tithe, tobe distributed to those that want them;§ towomen also that are widows, and to childrenthat are orphans:** but as to the fruits, letthem carry that which is ripe first of all untothe temple: and when they have blessed Godfor that land which bare them, and which hehad given them for a possession: when theyhave also offered those sacrifices which thelaw has commanded them to bring, let them * Deut. xxiv. 20.t Deut. xxv. 4. I Deut. xxiii. 24. II This penalty of forty stripes save one, was five timesinflicted on St. Paul by the Jews. 2 Cor. xi. 34. § Tosephus's plain and express interpretation of thislaw of Moses, Deut. xiv. 28, 29, &c. that the Jews were bound every third year to pay three tithes, that to theLevites; that for sacrifices at Jerusalem; and this for theindigent, the widow, :rnd the orphans, is fully confirmedby the practice of good old Tobit, even when he was acaptive at Assyria, against the opinion of the Uabbin».Tobit i. 6, 7, 8*.** Deut. xxvi. 12.