OCR Output Chap. VI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 265 went to the royal palace, and Hyrcanus retired to the house ofAristobulus. 2. Now, those other people which were at variance with Ari­stobulus were afraid upon his unexpected obtaining the govern­ment ; and especially this concerned * Antipater, whpm Aristo­bulus hated of old. He was by birth an Idumean, and one of theprincipal of that nation on account of his ancestors and riches,and other authority to him belonging : he also persuaded Hyr-canus to fly to Aretas, the king of Arabia, and to lay claim tothe kingdom ; as also he persuaded Aretas to receive Hyrcanus,and to bring him back to his kingdom : he also cast great re­proaches upon Aristobulus, as to his morals, and gave great com­mendations to Hyrcanus, and ^exhorted Aretas to receive him,and. told him how becoming a thing it would be for him, whoruled so great a kingdom, to afford his assistance to such as areinjured ; alleging that Hyrcanus was treated unjustly, by beingdeprived of that dominon which belonged to him by the prero­gative of his birth. And when he had predisposed them bothto do what he would have them, he took Hyrcanus by night>and ran awayfrom the city, and, continuing his flight with greatswiftness, he escaped to the place called Petra, which is theroyal seat of the king of Arabia, where he put Hyrcanus intoAretas's hand ; and by discoursing much with him, and gainingupon him with many presents, he prevailed with him to givehim an army that might restore' him to his kingdom. Thisarmy consisted of fifty thousand footmen and horsemen, againstwhich Aristobulus was not able to make resistance, but was de­serted in his first onset, and was driven to Jerusalem : he alsohad been taken at first by force, if Scaurus, the Roman general,had not come and seasonably interposed himself, and raised thesiege. This Scaurus was sent into Syria from Armenia byPompey the Great, when he fought against Tigranes ; so Scauruscame to Damascus, which had been lately taken by Metellusand Lollius, and caused them to leave the place ; and, upon hishearing how the affairs of Judea stood, he made haste thither asto a certain booty. 3. As soon, therefore, as he was come into the country, therecame ambassadors from both the brothers, each of them desiringhis assistance ; but Aristobulus's three hundred talents had moreweight with him than the justice of the cause ; which sum,when Scaurus had received, he sent an herald to Hyrcanus andthe Arabians, and threatened them with the resentment of the-Romans, and of Pompey, unless they would raise' the siege. So VOL. Hit-.v LI , J>: ,': , Aretas * That this Antipater, the father of Herod the Great, was an Idumean, as Jo.SNepJius affirms here; see the note on Amiq B. XIV. ch. xv. sect. z.