OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 23? "tutelar deities of the empire. Above sixty thousand barbarians"were destroyed; not by the Roman arms, but in our sight, and"for our entertainment. May the nations, enemies of Rome, ever"preserve this enmity to each other! We have now attained the"utmost verge of prosperity 79, and have nothing left to demand"of Fortune except the discord of the barbarians 8°." These sen­timents, less worthy of the humanity than of the patriotism ofTacitus, express the invariable maxims of the policy of his coun­trymen. They deemed it a much safer expedient to divide than tocombat the barbarians, from whose defeat they could derive nei­ther honour nor advantage. The money and negociations of Rome,insinuated themselves into the heart of Germany; and every art ofseduction was used with dignity, to conciliate those nations whomtheir proximity to the Rhine or Danube might render the most usefulfriends, as well as the most troublesome enemies. Chiefs of renownand power were flattered by the most trifling presents, which theyreceived either as marks of distinction, or as the instruments ofluxury. In civil distensions, the weaker faction endeavoured tostrengthen its interest by entering into secret connexions with thegovernors of the frontier provinces. Every quarrel among the Ger­mans, was fomented by the intrigues of Rome; and every plan ofunion and public good, defeated by the stronger bias of private jea­lousy and interest81. Transient The general conspiracy which terrified the Romans under the union againstreign of Marcus Antoninus, embraced almost all the nations of Marcu,Ant0-Germany, and even Sarmatia, from the mouth of the Rhine to that--of the Danube81. It is impossible for us to determine whetherthis hasty confederation was formed by necessity, by reason, or bypassion; but we may rest assured, that the barbarians were neitherallured by the indolence or provoked by the ambition of the Romanmonarch. This dangerous invasion required all the firmness andvigilance of Marcus. He fixed generals of ability in the severalstations of attack, and assumed in person the conduct of the most important nmus.