OCR Output LIBYA. 17'1 LIBYA. Xsumones, who inhabited the Syrtis and the districteast of it (the present gulf of Suira), crossed theInsert in a westerly direction, and came to a greatriver wbich ran towards the rising sun, and hadcrocodiles in it, and black men inhabiting its banks.N"twithstanding some marvellous circumstances, thenarrative is probably true in substance; and, com­bined with the known activity of the Carthaginiantnule in slaves, gold-dust, ivory, elephants, &c, ren­ders it likely that the interior was known to theindents as well as the western coast, within 11°of the equator. But such knowledge as was acquiredbt travellers was rarely employed by the Greekreographers, who were more intent on accumulatingnames of places, thau on recording the physicalfeatures, through which alone names become in­structive. The mountain and river system of Libya Interiorhis been partly described in the article Atlas; andthe principal features of its indigenous populationurvier the heads Gaktcli and Gakamantes. Itwill iuffice, then, to point out here the effect whichthe general conformation of the mountains has upontbe climate and the rivers. The absence of snow'O the Atlas range denies to this continent, in itsr^rthem portion at least, the privilege of partialrtfriperition, although in the loftier regions of theAethiopian highlands the heat is mitigated by the'<* upon their summits. Hence arises the superiorvilonw of the Aethiopian rivers, the tributaries ofthe Nile, and the milder temperature of the plainsmrroanding the lake of Ztemoio, which, althoughwithin the tropics, enjoy a perpetual spring. Again,the northern range of Atlas runs so close to theMediterranean that the watershed is brief andibro.pt, and the rivers are properly mountain streams,which, after a short course, discharge themselvesinto the sea. The western slope of the LibyciMjctes also presents a succession of terraces, which& net propel the rivers with force enough upon thekiwiaMs to produce a continuous course ; so thatHther they lose themselves in swamps, or are ab-«W by the sands. In some cases, indeed, they(<reentrate themselves in vast inland lakes,which in tlieir turn drain off their superfluous watersin thread-like rivulets. On the southern inclination*f Atlai, there is a similar impediment to the for-Mtjfin of large rivers, and not until within a few^;r?«of tbetquator, and in districts beyond thet«nndi of ancient Libya, do we meet with majestic'•jTjims, like lire Senegal, the Quorra, &c, rivallingthe Nile. On this side, indeed, the irrigated por-'n» of the lowlands are rich pasture-lands, andthe Great Desert is bordered and encroached uponI* laxorioas patches both of forest and arable land.Tbe more remarkable mountains not included in theAlUsran^* are the following:—On the northern fron-ti«r of tbe Desert, Mons Ater or Niger (rTm. v. 5. s.S< n. 30. a 35), the modern flarusch or Black Moun-ki.\ which, running from east to west, separated the•tarn lM:az*uia (Fezzari) from Africa ltomana.Westward of this was the Usargala (QvaapyaXa&*t, KtoL iv. 6. § 7, &c), the present Adameh-h&tLjregiad, which ran far into the territory ofthe Garunantes, and contained the sources of the™*t Bagrada. Tlus may be regarded as a con-fooatiaa of the Atlas Major, S. of Numidia andKMretaiua. Next, running in a N. direction to theT*T* (4 Xnmidia, and a branch of the Usargala,*■* M-jos (iirgiri (to Tifryipi&poi), Tibesti, in whicht*t rirw Cuiypbu* arose. Along the Atlantic coast, and parallel with the Greater Atlas were the follow­ing mountains and headlands: — Mount Sagapola(icrydVoAo, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8, &c), from which theriver Subus sprang, to SW. of which was MountMandrus (to MavSpov opos), a long chain of hills,reaching to the parallel of the Fortunate Islands,and containing the fountains of all the rivers thatdischarge themselves into the Atlantic, from theSalathus to the Massa, or from Cape Aon to CapeBojador. Mt. Caphas (Kdtpas), 8 degrees to S.,from which the D.iradas flowed, stretched in a SE.direction far into the Desert: Mount Ryssadius(to 'PwTtrdb'iov Spot) terminated i na headland of thesame name, probably Cape Blanco, and in it rosethe river Stachir. Of all these mountains, however,the most remarkable as regards the Libyan rocksystem, because it exhibited unquestionable tokensof volcanic action, was that denominated the Chariotof the Gods (®*wv "O^/xa), probably the presentKong, or Sierra Leone. This was the extreme pointof ancient navigation on the Atlantic; for the Phoe­nician Periplus, if it indeed was actually performed,formed the single exception to the otherwise uni­versal ignorance of the coast beyond. As far asmodern discoveries have made known the interior,Libya, from the ocean to the borders of Aegypt, iscrossed by a succession of highlands, arising at cer­tain points to a considerable elevation, and sendingforth terraces and spurs towards the south. It ispossible that these may form a continuous chain,but our acquaintance with its bearings is very im­perfect. The ancient geographers distinguishedsome portions of these highlands by the names ofMount Bardctus (Bdp&nTov opos), west of theLunae Montes; and in the same line, but at a con­siderable interval, M. Mesche (Mtaxfi); Zipha(Zi<pdy, north of Mesche; and, approaching theAtlantic, Mount Ion ("lor ooos), and Duuchis(Aaux'O^ In a line with the Chariot of the Gods,and northward of the line of Bardetus, were theelevations Arualtes (5 'ApovdATns) and Arangas (i'Apoyyas), the latter of which ran down to theequatorial line. These, with Mount Tbala (toQdXa 5poj), and, further eastward, the serratedrange entitled the Garamantic Pharanx or Combo(tj TapafiavTiKij <pdpay£), may be regarded as offsetsof the Aethiopian highlands. That these mountainscontain considerable mineral wealth is rendered pro­bable by their feeding the sources of rivers in thegold region, and from the copper pyrites discoveredon their flanks. That they were the cradles ofinnumerable streams is also certain from the richpasture and woodland which mark the confines ofthe equatorial region of Libya Interior. The voyage of Hanno was undertaken for thepurpose of planting upon the coast of the Atlantictrading stations, and to secure with the regionsthat produced gold, aroraatics, and elephants, areadier communication with Carthage than couldbe maintained across the Sah&ra. That this tradewas materially impaired when the Romans becamomasters of Africa, is probable, because the con­quering people had little genius for commerce, andbecause they derived the same articles of tradethrough the more circuitous route of Egypt andAethiopia. Yet the knowledge acquired by theCarthaginians was not altogether lost, and thegeographers of the empire have left us some im­portant information respecting the western coast ofLibya as far as 11° N. lat. According to Ptolemy,the principal promontories were, beginning from the N 2