OCR Output Chap XXII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 317 try, he came back to it. Herod's provocation was" this, notthat Hyrcanus made any attempt to gain the kingdom, but thatit was fitter for him to be their king than for Herod. .,- 2. Now of the five children which Herod had by Mariamtw,two of them were daughters, and three were sons; and the young­est of these sons was educated at Rome, and there died; but thetwo eldest he treated as those of royal blood, on account of thenobility of their mother, and because they w«re not born till hewas king. But then what was stronger than all this, was thelove that he bare to Mariamne, and which inftamed him every­day to a great degree, and so far conspired with the other mo­tives, that he felt no other troubles on account of her he lovedso entirely'. But Mariarane's hatred to him, was not inferior tohis love to her. She had indeed but too just a cause of indigna­tion, from what he had done, while her boldness proceeded fromhis affection to her; so she openly reproached him with what hehad done to her grandfather Hyrcaaus, and to her brother A-ristobulus; for he had not spared this Aristobulus, though hewere but a child; for when he had given him the high-priest­hood at the age of seventeen, he slew him quickly after he hadconferred that dignity upon him; but when Aristobulus had p«ton the holy vestments, and had approached to the altar, at a festi­val, the multitude, in great crowds, fell into tears; whereupon thechild was s«nt by night to Jericho, and was there dipped bythe Gall^ at Herod's command, in a pool till be was drowned. 3- For these reasons Mariamne reproached Herod, and hissister and mother, after a most contumelious manner, while hewas*dumb on account of his affection for her; yet had the wo­men great indignation at her,'and raised a calumny against her,that she was false to his bed; which thing they thought mostlikely to move Herod to anger. They also contrived to havemany other circumstances believed, in order to make the thingmore credible, and accused her of having sent her picture intoEgypt to Antony, and that her lust was so extravagant, as to havethus shewed herself, though she was absent, to a man that ranmad after women, and to a man that had it in his power to useviolence to her. This charge fell like a thunderbolt upon He­rod, and put him into disorder; and that especially, because hislove to her occasioned him to be jealous, and because he consi­dered with himself that Cleopatra was a shrewd woman, andthat on her account Lysanias the king was taken off, as well asMalichus the Arabian; for his fear did not only extend to thedissolving of his marriage, but to the danger of his life. 4. When th&refore he was about to take a journey abroad,he committed his wife to Joseph, his sister SalotBe's husband, as to