OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL the form of a province. The family of a Greek rhetorician was permitted toreign in Colchos and the adjacent kingdoms, from the time of Mark Antony to thatof Nero; and after the race of Polemo(l) was extinct, the eastern Pontus, whichpreserved his name, extended no farther than the neighbourhood of Trebizond.Beyond these limits the fortifications of Hyssus, of Apsarus, of the Phasis, of Di-oscurias or Sebastopolis, and of Pityus, were guarded by sufficient detachments ofhorse and foot; and six princes of Colchos received their diadems from the lieu­tenants of Cicsar. One of these lieutenants, the eloquent and philosophic Arrian,surveyed, and has described, the Euxine coast, under the reign of Hadrian. Thegarrison which he reviewed at the mouth of the Phasis, consisted of four hundredchosen legionaries; the brick walls and towers, the double ditch, and the militaryengines on the rampart, rendered this place inaccessible to the barbarians; but thenew suburbs, which had been built by the merchants and veterans, required, inthe opinion of Arrian, some external defence. (2) As the strength of the empirewas gradually impaired, the Romans stationed on the Phasis were either with­drawn or expelled; and the tribe of the Lazi,(3) whose posterity speak a foreign,dialect, and inhabit the sea-coast of Trebizond, imposed their name and dominionon the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their independence was soon invaded by aformidable neighbour, who had acquired by arms and treaties, the sovereignty ofIberia. The dependant king of Lazica received his sceptre at the hands of thePersian monarch, and the successors of Constantine acquiesced in this injuriousclaim, which was proudly urged as a right of immemorial prescription. In thebeginning of the sixth century, their influence was restored by the introduction ofChristianity, which the Mingrelians still profess with becoming zeal, without un­derstanding the doctrines, or observing the precepts, of their religion. After thedecease of his father, Zathus was exalted to the regal dignity by the favour of thegreat king; but the pious youth abhorred the ceremonies of the Magi, and sought,in the palace of Constantinople, an orthodox baptism, a noble wife, and the al­liance of the emperor Justinian. (4) The king of Lazica was solemnly investedwith the diadem, and his cloak, and tunic of white silk, with a gold border, dis­played, in rich embroidery, the figure of his new patron; who soothed the jealousyof the Persian com-t, and excused the revolt of Colchos, by the venerable namesof hospitality and religion. The common interest of both empires imposed on theColchians the duty of guarding the passes of Mount Caucasus, where a wall ofsixty miles is now defended by the monthly service of the musketeers of Miir-greha. But this honourable connexion was soon corrupted by the avarice and ambitionof the Romans. Degraded from the rank of allies, the Lazi were incessantly re­minded, by words and actions, of their dependant state. At the distance of aday's journey beyond the Apsarus, they beheld the rising fortress of Petra,(5)which commanded the maritime country to the south, of the Phasis. Instead ofbeing protected by the valour, Colchos was insulted by the licentiousness, of fo­reign mercenaries; the benefits of commerce were converted into base and vexatiousmonopoly; and Gubazes, their native prince, was reduced to a pageant of royalty,by the superior influence of the officers of Justinian. Disappointed in their ex­pectations of Christian virtue, the indignant Lazi reposed some confidence in thejustice of an unbeliever. After a private assurance that their ambassador shouldnot be delivered to the Romans, they publicly solicited the friendship and aid ofChosroes. The sagacious monarch instantly discerned the use and importance ofColchos; and meditated a plan of conquest, which was renewed at the end of a 0) We may trace th« rise and fall of the family of Polemo. in Strabo (lib. xi. p. 755. lib. xii. p. S67.) DionCassius or Xiphilin (p. 588. 593. 601. 719. 754. 915. 946. edit. Reimar.;) Suetoniui (in Neron. c. xviii. in Ves­pasian, c. viii.O Eutropius (7.14.:) Josephus, (Antiq. Jadiac. lib. XX. e. 7. p. 970. edit. Havercamp,) and Kuie-bins. (ChroD. with Scaliger, Animadvers. p. 196.) (2) In the time of Procopius, there were no Roman forts on the Phasis. Pityus and Sebastopolis were eva­cuated on the rumour of the Persians (Goth. lib. iv. c. 4.:) but the lstterfwas afterwards restored by Justinian(de Edif. lib. iv. c. 7.) (3) In the time of Pliny. Arian, and Ptolemy, the Lazi were a particular tribe on the northern skirts of Col­chos (Cellanus. Geograph. Antiq. torn. li. p. 222.) In the age of Justinian they spread, or at least reigned,over the whole country. At present they have migrated along the coast towards Trebizond, and composesrude sea-laring people, with a peculiar language (Chardin, p. 149. Pevssonnel, p. 64.) (4) John Malata, Citron, torn. ii. p. 134—137. Theopbanes, p. 144. Hist. Miscell. lib. xv. p. 103. The fact isauthentic, but the dates seem too recent. In speaking of their Persian alliance, the Lazi cotemporaries of Jus­tinian employ the most obsolete words—£ v y^y.x<rt /<v>j,«s*xs jrpsyovot, occ. Could they belong to a connexionwhich had not been dissolved above twenty years? (5) The whole vestige of Petra subsists in writings of Procopius and Agathias. Most of the towns andcastles ot Lazica may be found by comparing their names and position with the map of Mingrelia, in.Lamberti.