OCR Output C. VII.] EVENTS OF THE SIE8E. 199 He said, that lie would come down, if he would give him hisright hand for his security. To which Titus replied, that hewas well pleased with such his agreeable conduct, and wouldbe well pleased if all the Jews would be of his mind, andthat he was ready to give the like security to the city. Nowfive of the ten dissembled with him, and pretended to beg formercy, while the rest cried out aloud, that they would neverbe slaves to the Romans, while it was in their power to diein a state of freedom. Now, while these men were quarrel­ling for a long while, the attack was delayed; Castor alsosent to Simon, and told him that they might take some timefor consultation about what was to be done, because he woulddelude the power of the Romans for a considerable time.And at the same time that he sent thus to him, he appearedopenly to exhort those that were obstinate to accept of Titus'shand for their security; but they seemed very angry at it,and brandished their naked swords upon the breast-works,and struck themselves upon their breasts, and fell down as ifthey had been slain. Hereupon Titus and those with himwere amazed at the courage of the men; and as they werenot able to see exactly what was done, they admired at theirgreat fortitude, and pitied their calamity. During this in­terval a certain person shot a dart at Castor, and woundedhim in his nose, whereupon he presently pulled out the dart,and showed it to Titus, and complained that this was unfairtreatment: so Caesar reproved him that shot the dart, andsent Josephus, who then stood by him, to give his right handto Castor. But Josephus said that he would not go to him,because these pretended petitioners meant nothing that wasgood ; he also restrained those friends of his who were zealousto go to him. But still there was one JEneas, a deserter,who said he would go to him. Castor also called to them,that somebody should come and receive the money which hehad with him ; this made JEneas the more earnestly to runto him, with his bosom open. Then did Castor take up agreat stone, and threw it at him, which missed him, becausehe guarded himself against it, but still it wounded anothersoldier that was coming to him. When Cicsar understood