OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK IX. 129 the enemy were slain or taken. Some affirm that thisfamous battle was fought on the farther side of theCiminian forest, at Perusia; and that the public hadbeen tinder great dread lest the army might be inclosedin such a dangerous pass, and overpowered by a gene­ral combination of the Etrurians and Umbrians. Buton whatever spot it was fought it is certain that theRoman power prevailed ; and in consequence thereofambassadors came from Perusia, Cortona, and Arre-tium, which were then among the principal states ofEtruria, to solicit a peace and alliance with the Ro­mans ; and they obtained a truce for thirty years. 38. During these transactions in Etruria the otherconsul, Caius Marcius Rutilus, took Allifae by stormfrom the Samnites; and many of their forts and smallertowns were either destroyed by his arms or surren­dered intire. About the same time also the Romanfleet, having sailed to Campania under Publius Corne­lius, to whom the senate had given the command onthe sea coast, put into Pompeii. Immediately on land­ing the marine soldiers set out to ravage the countryabout Nuceria; and after they had quickly laid wastethe parts which lay nearest, and whence they couldhave returned to the ships with safety, they were al­lured by the temptation of plunder, as it often happens,to advance too far, and thereby roused the enemyagainst them. While they rambled about the countrythey met no opposition, though they might have beencut off to a man ; but as they were returning, in acareless manner, the peasants overtook them, not farfrom the ships, stripped them of the booty, and evenslew a great part of them. Those who escaped weredriven in confusion to the ships. As the news of Fa-bius having marched through the Ciminian forest hadoccasioned violent apprehensions at Rome, so it hadexcited joy in proportion among the enemy in Sam-mum : they talked of the Roman army being pent upand surrounded, and of the Caudine forks, as a modelof what they were to undergo. ' Those people,' theysaid, ' ever greedy after farther acquisitions, were nowLiv. vol. ill. I