OCR Output B-V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 6,t with such Arcadian parties as were already come up,marched on and broke into the Mantinean; and, havingformed their camp near the temple of Hercules, theyravaged the country. The Argives and their allies, when their enemy wasthus in sight, having posted themselves on a spot ofground by nature strong and difficult of approach, drewup in order, as ready to engage. The Lacedæmoni­ans also immediately advanced towards them, and evenapproached so near as within the cast of a stone or a dart.But qne of the old experienced Spartans, perceiving thatthey were to attack so difficult a post, roared out aloudto Agis,* that " he was going to repair one evil by an-** other j" as if, by his present ill-judged eagerness, hewas bent on making reparation for his censured retreatfrom Argos. Upon this, either struck with such anexclamation, or whether upon a sudden his own thoughtssuggested to him a different conduct, he drew off hisarmy again, with all possible expedition, before the bat­tle could be joined. And, wheeling from thence intothe Tegeatis, he turned a stream of water into the Man­tinean, about which, as apt to. do great damage to thelands on which side foever it flowed, the Mantineans andTegeatæ are eternally at blows. It was his scheme todraw down the Argives and their allies from their strongpost, on the eminence, in order to prevent the turningof this stream, so soon as they knew it was in agitation,and thus to gain an opportunity of fighting in the plain.In pursuance of this, he halted the whole day upon thestream, and accomplished its diversion. But the Ar­gives and their allies, surprised at this sudden and preci­pitate retreat, had been, at first, unable to conjecturewhat it meant. At length, when the enemy was totally * Plutarch fays it was an apophthegm of this Agis, that Lacedæmonians never askconcerning their enemies, " How many are they?" but " Where are they?" Andthat, when he was hindered from righting at Mantinea, he said, "They, who"would rule over many, must fight against many:" And, being asked what was thenumber of the Lacedæmonians, he replied, " Enow to b:at cowards." withdrawn^.