OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 131 ander; and finding him beginning the siege of Tyre, he said tohim, that he delivered up to him these men, who came out ofplaces under his dominion, and did gladly accept of him for hislord, instead of Darius. So when Alexander had received himkindly, Sanballat thereupon took courage, and spake to himabout his present affair. He told him, That "he had a son-in-"law, Manasseh, who was brother to the high priest Jaddua s"and that there were many others of his own nation, now with"him, that were desirous to have a temple in the same places"subject to him: that it would be for the king's advantage to"have the strength of the Jews divided into two parts, lest when"the nation is of one mind, and united, upon any attempt for"innovation, it prove troublesome to kings, as it had formerly"proved to the kings of Assyria." Whereupon Alexander gaveSanballat leave so to do, who used the utmost diligence, andbuilt the temple, and made Manasseh the priest, and deemed ita great reward, that his daughter's children should have thatdignity: but when the seven months of the siege of Tyre wereover, and the two months of the siege of Gaza, Sanballat died.Now Alexander, when he had taken Gaza, made haste to go upto Jerusalem : and Jaddua the high priest, when he heard that,was in an agony, and under terror, as not knowing how heshould meet the Macedonians, since the king was displeased athis foregoing disobedience. He therefore ordained that thepeople should make supplications, and should join with him inoffering sacrifice to God, whom he besought to protect that na­tion, and to deliver them from the perils that were coming up­on them j Whereupon God warned him in a dream, which cameupon him after he had offered sacrifice, That " he should take"courage, and adorn the city, and open the gates ; that the rest"should appear in white garments, but that he and the priests"should meet the king in the habits proper to their order,"without the dread of any ill consequences, which the provi-"dence of God would prevent." Upon which, when he rose fromhis sleep, he greatly rejoiced; and declared to all the warninghe had received from God. According to which dream hei act­ed entirely, and so waited for the coming of the king. 5. And when he understood that he was not far from the cityyhe went out in procession, with the priests and the multitude ofthe citizens. The procession was venerable, and the manner ofit different from that of other nations. It reached to a placecalled Sapha, which name translated into Greek, signifies a pros­pect, for you have thence a prospect both of Jerusalem and ofthe temple; and when the Phenicians and the Chaldeans ; thatfollowed him, thought they should have liberty to plunder thecity, and torment the high priest to death, which the king's dis­pleasure fairly promised them, the very reverse of it happened; VOL. n. K 19