OCR Output 38 , TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. the dint of superior strength, and the exertions of hisbrave veterans, obtained a complete victory; for herouted and pursued the enemy, to the gates of' their city,which, however,. as it was strongly fortified by natureand art, he did not attempt to take. In his return, helaid waste their country, not for the sake of plunder, butfrom motives of revenge. The Vejentes, no less hum­bled by these depredations than their tate defeat, sentdeputies to Rome to sue for peace. They were fined iaa part of their territory; but obtained a truce for anhundred years. These are the most remarkable transactions that hap­pened in the reign of Romulus, both in peace and in war;none of which seem to discredit his divine original, orthe divinity ascribed to him after his death: neither hiscourage in recovering his grandfather's kingdom, thewisdom of his ptan in building, nor .his (Economy inestablishing his new city by arms and good policy. Forby the strength/it acquired, and the progress it madeunder him, it enjoyed profound peace for the space offorty years after. /He was, however, a greater favouritewith the people than the senate; but above all, particu­larly dear to the soldiers; of them, he chose three hun­dred to attend him in arms as a body guard, in peace aswell as in war, and called them Ceteres or light horse. • R CHAP. XVI. Romulus is carried out of sight, and deified. .OMULUS having thus immortalized his name by theglory of his actions, as he was haranguing his army, ata review of his troops, :n a plain beside the Goat's pond,a storm of hail and thunder rising all of a sudden, hid theking in so thick a cloud, as carried him quite out of sight.Hot did he ever after make his appearance among thepeople, The Roman youth, having at last got the bet­ter of their panic, and the day recovered its former calm­ness and serenity, when they observed the king's chairempty, although ihey had no doubt that he had beencarried up m the air by the hurricane, as they bad heard . II': ', '• •- •'''