OCR Output 1036 STENA. STOBL territory of Capcna in southern Etrnria. It wasfrom this district that the Stcllatine tribe derived itsname (Ke.st. s. r. Stella firm). [£. 11. li.] STENA, a station in Macedonia,on the road fromTauriana (Doirati) to Stobi (rent. Tub.), which isevidently the pass now called Ih'/nirknpi, or " Iron(iate," where the river AxiuS is closely bordered byperpendicular rocks, which in one place have beenexcavated tor the road (Leake, Northern Greece,vol. iii. p. 442.) [E. B. J.] STE'NTOKIS LACtJS (SrevTopU \^otj, Herod,vii. 58; AcropoL p. 64), a lake on the south-castcoast of Thrace, formed by the Hebrus, and openinginto the Aegean near the town of Aenos. Pliny(it. ll.s. IS) incorrectly places on it a STEKTORNPoRTUS; and Manncrt conjectures that perhaps theright reading in Ilcrodutus (t c.) is ktfttva, not\lfirrftr. [J. R.] STENTS, a river of Thrace, mentioned by Melaonly (ii. 2. § 8) as near Maronea,on the south coast,'1'lie name is probably corrupt, as it ocean in theMSS. in a great variety of forms,—Stenos, Stonos,Schoenus, Seenas, Sithenos, &c. (See Tnchncke,ad he). [J. R.] STENYCLA'RUS (XTfK&Aapor, 2tcvvk\vpos:Eth. ^TtwH\y}pios)t a town in the north of Mcs-senia, and the capital of the Dorian conquerors,built by Cresphontes. Andania had been the an­cient capital of the country. (Pans. iv. 3. § 7;Strab. riii. p. 3G1.) The town afterwards ceasedto exist, but its name was given to the northern ofthe two Messenian plains. (Tans. iv. 33. § 4, iv.15. § 8; Herod, ix. G4.) [Messema, p. 341.] STEPHANAPHANA, more correctly, perhaps,Stepbani Fanum, a place in Illyris Graeca, on theVia Epnatia {Itin. llieros. p. 608). It was thecastle of St. Stephen (tou ayiov 2Tf</>d»'ou), repairedby Justinian. (Procop. de Aed. iv. 4.) Lapte placesit on the river Boscovitza. [T. II. I).] STEPHANE (SreeWpn), a small port town on thecast of Paphlajjonia, according to Arrian (JPtripLP. E. p. 15) ISO stadia east of Cimolis, butaccording to Mareian (p. 72) only 150. The placewas mentioned as early as the time of Hecataeus asa town of the Mariandyni (Steph. IS. s. v. ^Tttpavh),under the name of Stephanie. (Comp. Scylax, p. 34;Ptol. v. 4. § 2.) The modern village of Slephanioor Est!fan probably occupies the site of the ancientStephane. [L. S.] STEREaNTIUHCSreoeorrior^atown in North.Western Germany, probably in the country of theIiructeri or Marsi, the exact site of which cannot beascertained. (Ptol. ii. U. § 27.) [**■&] STIPHANE (IrKpamj), a lake in the north­western part of Pontus, in the district calledPhtseraonitis. The lake was en tensive and aboundedin fish, and its shores afforded excellent pasture(Strab. xii. p. 560.) Its modern name is BoghazK'uui Ghieid. (Hamilton, Kcsearchcs, i. p. 336.full.) [L. S.] STITHA. [Attica, p. 332, a.] STIRJS (2Tipfs: Eth. STtpiTTjs), a town of Pbociasituated 120 stadia from Chaeroncia, the road betweenthe two places running across the mountains. Theinhabitants of Sliris claimed descent from an Athe­nian colony of the Attic demos of Steiria, led byPotent, when he was driven out of Attica by Aepeus.Panaanias describes the city as situated upon arocky summit, with only a few wells, which did notsupply water fit for drinking, which the inhabitantsobtained from a fountain, four stadia below the city, to which fountain there was s descent extantstamonr; the rocks. The city contained hi tbe ia»of Pausaniat a temple of Artemis Stiritis, tankefcrude brick, containing two statues, one 4 Peaeftmarble, the other of ancient workmanship,with bandages. (Pans. x. 35. §§ 8-1G.)was one of the Pbocian cities destroyed hr Ptnsfthe close of the Sacred War (Pans, x. 3. § t);it was afterwards rebuilt and was iniulibftltime of the visit of Pausaaias. The nun dnow called Paled Miora, are situated npoe iheight defended, by precipitous rocks, about iof an hour's ride from the monastery of StThe summit is surrounded with a wall ofstruction, and the surface of the rock ■inclosure is excavated in many places forThe fountain of water described byprobably the copions soorce within the wiflimonastery issuing from tbe side of the huXfountain is mentioned in an inscription fixedouter wall of the church. (Leake, .Yortlrmvol. ii. p. 528, seq.) STMJP1 or STLUPPI (IrXolv^XTXam.ii. 16. (17.) § 9). a place in Liburnii- TWbitants are. called Stlupini by Pliny (iii-iLiPerhaps the present SlunL [T.~ STOBI (Srdffoi, Strab. viL p. 329, fr389; Ptol iii. 13. § 4; Lit. xxxiii. 19,xl. 21, xlv. 29; PI in. iv. 17), s towD intlPaeonia in Macedonia, which appears Isa place of some importance under thekin^s, although probably it had beeby the incursions of the Danlani.an intention of founding a new city assrmemory of a victory over these troobieseahours, and which he proposed to call INhonour of his son. At the Roman conqwwas made the place of deposit of salt for ratof the Danlani, the monopoly of which «s»the Third Macedonia. In the time cf PtaStobi was a municipal town, bat probable athe time of Heliogab.illis it was made a uWhen about A. D. 400 Macedonia was i'* consular," Stobi became the chief Inn of 1donia H or Salutaris (Marqoardt in BtdbertlAlter, vol. iii. pt i. p. 118). Acceptor.Tabular Itinerary ft stood 47 M. P. fnmlof Lyncus, which was in tbe Via I55 M. P. from Tauriana, and win the direct road from Heracleia to iposition must have been therefore oa10 or 12 miles above the junction of thai rthe Axius, a situation which agrees'Livy, who describes it as belonging t» IPaeonia, which was watered by the En***,was a point from which four roads iTab.) One proceeded NW. to Scop*, and fto Naissus on the great SE. route from Ion the Dannbe to Byzantium; theSerdica, 100 M. P. SE. of Naissus on the ithe third SE. to Thessalonica; and theto Heracleia, the last forming a contra usar:that central point on the YiaEgnatia IndiaStobi from all the places on the three 1In a. P. 479 Stobi was captured bw fOstrogoth (Makh. Philadelph. £rr. <Vipp. 78—86, ap. Alulier. Fragm-fftML (p. 125); and in the Bulgarian cam pi1014, it was occupied by Basil IL and tarmy (^roweio*. Cedren. p. 709)^ The |of the basin of the Ergon in which Stobi i