OCR Output PREFACE. 247 4. However, I will not go to the other extreme, out of op.position to those men who extol the Romans, nor will I determineto raise the actions of my countrymen too high ; but I will pro­secute the actions of both parties with accuracy. Yet shall I suitmy language to the passions I am under, as to the affairs I describe,and must be allowed to indulge some lamentations upon themiseries undergone by my own country. For that it was a se­ditious temper of our own that destroyed it, and that they werethe tyrants among the Jews who brought the Roman power uponus, who unwillingly attacked us, and occasioned the burningof our holy temple, Titus Caesar, who destroyed it, is himself awitness, who, during the entire war, pitied the people who werekept under by the seditious, and did often voluntarily delay thetaking of the city, and allowed time to the siege, in order to letthe authors have opportunity for repentance. But if any onemakes an unjust accusation against us, when we speak so passion­ately about the tyrants, or the robbers, or sorely bewail the mis­fortunes of our country, let him indulge my affections herein,though it be contrary to the rules for writing history ; becauseit had so come to pass, that our city Jerusalem had arrived at auhigher degree of felicity than any other city under the Romangovernment, and yet at last fell into the sorest of calamities again.Accordingly it appears to me, that * the misfortunes of all men,from the beginning of the world, if they be compared to these ofthe Jews, are not so considerable as they were; while the authorsof them were not foreigners neither. This makes it impossiblefor me to contain my lamentations. But, if any pne be inflexi­ble in his censures of me, let him attribute the facts themselvesto the historical part; and the lamentations to the writer him­self only. 5. However, I may justly blame the learned men among theGreeks, who, when such great actions have been done in theirown times, which, upon the comparison, quite eclipse the oldwars, do yet sit as judges of those affairs, and pass bitter censuresupon the labours of the best writers of antiquity; which mo­derns, although they may be superior to the old writers in elo­quence, yet are they inferior to them in the execution of whatthey intended to do. While these also write new histories aboutthe Assyrians and Medes; as if the ancient writers had not de­scribed their affairs as they ought to have done ; although thesebe as far inferior to them in abilities, as they are different in their * That these calamities of the Jews, who were our Saviour's murderers, wereto be the greatest that had ever been since the beginning of the world, our Sa­viour had directly foretold, Matt. xxiv. n. Mark, xiii. 19. Luke, xxi. 23, 24 ;and that the/ proved to be such accordingly, Josephus is here a most authenticWitness.