OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 85 same as that of Cato and Cicero. From Grecian philosophy, theyhad imbibed the justest and most liberal notions of the dignity ofhuman nature, and the origin of civil society. The history of theirown country had taught them to revere a free, a virtuous, and-avictorious commonwealth; to abhor the successful crimes of Cæsarand Augustus; and inwardly to despise those tyrants whom theyadored with the most abject flattery. As magistrates and senators,they were admitted into-the great council, which had once dictatedlaws to the earth, whose name still gave a sanction to the acts ofthe monarch, and whose authority was so often prostituted to thevilest purposes of tyranny. Tiberius, and those emperors whoadopted his maxims, attempted to disguise their murders by theformalities of justice, and perhaps enjoyed a secret pleasure in ren­dering the senate their accomplice, as well as their victim. Bythis assembly, the last of the Romans were condemned for ima­ginary crimes and real virtues. Their infamous accusers assumedthe language of independent patriots, who arraigned a dangerouscitizen before the tribunal of his country; and the public servicewas rewarded by riches and honours The servile judges assertedthe majesty of the commonwealth, violated in the person of itsfirst magistrate 56, whose clemency they most applauded when theytrembled the most at his inexorable and impending cruelty Thetyrant beheld their baseness with just contempt, and encounteredtheir secret sentiments of detestation with sincere and avowed hatredfor the whole body of the senate. i» II. The division of Europe into a number of independent states, Extent ofconnected, however, with each other, by the general resemblance {e1ftlrthemPnoof religion, language, and manners, is productive of the most bene- of r#"ficial consequences to the liberty of mankind. A modern tyrant,who should find no resistance either in his own breast, or in hispeople, would soon experience a gentle restraint from the exampleof his equals, the dread of present censure, the advice of his allies, M a and