OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 183 nishing hostages (647). So perilous was the state of things 107.for the Romans, that one of the most important towns intheir own province, Tolosa, rose against them and placed theRoman garrison in chains. But, as the Cimbrians continued to employ themselveselsewhere, and the Helvetii did not further molest for themoment the Roman province, the new Roman comman­der-in-chief, Quintus Servilius Caepio, had full time to re­cover possession of the town of Tolosa by treachery and toempty at leisure the immense treasures accumulated in theold and famous sanctuary of the Celtic Apollo. It was a de­sirable gain for the embarrassed exchequer, but unfortunatelythe gold and silver vessels on the way from Tolosa to Mas-silia were taken from the weak escort by a band of robbers,and totally disappeared: the consul himself and his staffwere, it was alleged, the instigators of the onset (648). 106-Meanwhile they confined themselves to the strictest defen­sive as regarded the chief enemy, and guarded the Romanprovince with three strong armies, till it should please theCimbrians to repeat their attack. They came in 649 under their king Boiorix, on this occa- 105.sion seriously meditating an inroad into Italy. They were Defeat ofopposed on the right bank of the Rhone by the proconsul Arausl°-Caepio, on the left by the consul Gnaeua Mallius Maximusand by his legate, the consular Marcus Aurelius Scaurus,under him at the head of a detached corps. The first onsetfell on the latter; he was totally defeated and brought inperson as a prisoner to the enemy's head-quarters, wherethe Cimbrian king, indignant at the proud warning givento him by the captive Roman not to venture with his armyinto Italy, put him to death. Maximus thereupon orderedhis colleague to bring his army over the Rhone: the lattercomplying with reluctance at length appeared at Arausio(Orange) on the left bank of the river, where the wholeRoman force stood confronting the Cimbrian army, and isalleged to have made such an impression by its considerablenumbers that the Cimbrians began to negotiate. But thetwo leaders lived in the most vehement discord. Maximus,an ignoble and incapable man, was as consul the legalsuperior of his prouder and better born, but not betterqualified, proconsular colleague Caepio; but the latter re­fused to occupy a common camp and to devise operationsin concert with him, and still, as formerly, maintained his