OCR Output 402 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. reserve-fund; but even the figures appearing for theseobjects, when compared with the wide domain of the Romanrule, attest the small amount of the net proceeds of theRoman taxes. In a certain sense therefore the old principleequally honourable and judicious—that the political hege­mony should not be treated as a privilege yielding profit—still governed Rome's financial administration of the pro­vinces as it had governed that of Italy. What the Romancommunity levied from its transmarine subjects was, as arule, re-expended for the military security of the transmarinepossessions; and if these Roman imposts fell more heavilyon those who paid them than the earlier taxation, in so faras they were in great part expended abroad, the substitu­tion, on the other hand, of a single ruler and a centra­lized military administration for the many petty rulers andarmies involved a very considerable financial saving. It istrue, however, that this principle of a better and earlier agecame from the very first to be infringed and mutilated by thenumerous exceptions which were allowed to prevail. Theground-tenth levied by Hiero and Carthage in Sicily wentfar beyond the amount of an annual war-contribution. Withjustice moreover Scipio iEmilianus says in Cicero, that itwas unbecoming for the Roman burgess-body to be at thesame time the ruler and the tax-gatherer of the nations.The appropriation of the customs-dues was not compatiblewith the principle of disinterested hegemony, and the highrates of the customs as well as the vexatious mode of levy­ing them were not fitted to allay the sense of the injusticethereby inflicted. Even as early probably as this period thename of publican became synonymous among the Easternpeoples with that of rogue and robber: no burden contri­buted so much as this to make the Roman name offensiveand odious especially in the East. But when Gaius Gracchusand those who called themselves the "popular party" inRome came to the helm, political sovereignty was declaredin plain terms to be a right which entitled every one whoshared in it to a number of bushels of corn, the hegemonywas converted into a direct ownership of the soil, and themost complete system of making the most of that owuershipwas not only iutroduced but with shameless candour legallyjustified and proclaimed. It was certainly not a mere acci­dent, that the hardest lot in this respect fell precisely tothe two least warlike provinces, Sicily and Asia.