OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 467 the cause of the destruction of Jerusalem, and of the demo­lition of the temple, and ought to have said, that their ma­chinations against Jesus were the cause of those miseriescoming on the people, because they had slain that Christ,who was foretold by the prophets, he, though as it were un­willingly, and yet as one not remote from the truth, says :" These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for Jamesthe Just, who was the brother of Jesus, that was called Christ,because they had slain him who was a most righteous person."Now this James was he whom that genuine disciple of Jesus,Paul, said he had seen as the Lord's brother, [Gal. i. 19;]which relation implies not so much nearness of blood, or thesameness of education, as it does the agreement of mannersand preaching. If, therefore, he says the desolation of Jeru­salem befell the Jews for the sake of James, with how muchgreater reason might ho have said, that it happened for thesake of Jesus ? &c. About A. D. 324. Uuseb. Demonstr. Evan. lib. iii. p. 124.— Certainly the attestation of those I have already produced,concerning our Savior may be sufficient. However, it maynot be amiss, if, over and above, we make use of Josephusthe Jew for a farther witness; who, in the eighteenth bookof his Antiquities, when he was writing the history of whathappenedunder Pilate, makes mention of our Savior in thesewords: -V^Jpw there was about this time, Jesus, a wise man,if it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of won­derful works, a teacher of such men as had a veneration fortruth; he drew over to him both many of the Jews and manyof the Gentiles: he was the Christ. And when Pilate, at thesuggestion of the principal men among us, had condemnedhim to the cross, those that loved him at first did not forsakehim, for he appeared to them alive again the third day, asthe divine prophets had spoken of these, and ten thousandother wonderful things concerning him ; whence the tribe ofChristians, so named from him, are not extinct at this day. JIf, therefore, we have this historian's testimony, that he noT'only brought over to himself the twelve apostles with the se­venty disciples, but many of the Jews and many of the Gen-