OCR Output PHINTIAS. PHLIUS. 601 I riese to the town of Pbileae. It hastnracnly identified with /nimal-alc, ilattro-mtia, mi Arfat (Mela, ii. 2; Plin. iv. 11. s. 18,t «.a. 43.) [T. H. D.] PnTXTIAS (wittIm ■ Elh. Phintiensis: Ali-:■(•), a city en the S. coast of Sicily, situated atte BMlh of the river Uimera, about midway be-.Vf ncniani and Gels. It was not an ancient■n, hat was founded about 280 B. c. by Phintias,txs: of AgrifeEtarn, who bestowed on it his own.»», and laid it out on a great scale, with itsaCa, temples, and agora. He then peopled it withk> olahiiaata of Gela, which he utterly destroyed,the whole population to migrate to hisI city. (Diod. xxii. 2, p. 495.) Phin-never rose to a degree of importancea3 to be compared to that of Gels: it is men-•ad m the First Punic War (b.c. 249) as aflbrd-I >fc**tcr to a Roman fleet, which was, however,hexed aa the roadstead by that of the Cartha-bbbw. and many of the ships sunk. (Diod. xxiv.a. AOS.) Cicero also alludes to it as a seaport,mac an a considerable export trade in corn. ■ I'err. Hi. 83.) But in Strabo's time it seemshare fallen mto Um same state of decay with the■a* nit in on tbo S- coast of Sicily, as he does not ■ n it among the few exceptions. (Strab. vi.171.) Plioy. indeed, notices the Phintienses (or'-tcjenan as the name is written in some MSS.) "- the isipeodiary towns of Sicily; and its name(mad also in Ptolemy (who writes it *$a>6ia)\ >: u itrange that both these writers reckon it■t Ik* island towns of Sicily, though its mari- • twittas is clearly attested both by Diodorus(Vera, Tha Antunine Itinerary also gives aa -aftal "Plxntia," doobtless a corruption of■aaa, wfaicfi it places on the road from Agri-sc. along the roast towards Syracuse, at theBant af 23 miles from the former city. (Itin.L a. i", ) This distance agrees tolerably welli KMt firuru Girgenti to Alicata, though some- • wjs the truth; and it seems probable thatbri-r ctr. which is a place of some trade, (fc ita lauttonr ia a mere roadstead, occupies theaf the ancient Phintias. There Is indeed nor. fr m exatinp remains on the hill immediately • i/t-«tn, that the site was occupied in ancient». sal. though these have been regarded by!aru;Baruux* as the ruins of Gela, there is little5 4 lit cucrertness of the opinion advanced byartaa. that that city is to be placed on the site-rr^aerti. and the vestiges which remain at■ai are tlsoae of Phintias. (Cluver. Sicil. pp.J14. Sear sbo the article tin la.) The re-■ Lvwlvn are of little interest. [E. H. B ]SIX TON or PHLNTOXIS INSULA (+.f-a rww. J*toi.X ■ small island in the straitan Sanxinan nod Corsica, mentioned both byr aca Puaetny. It is probably the one nowI lav Sanaa oV/As Maddalena, the most con-paw af tan group so situated. (Plin. iii. 6.kna.au. 3L §8.) [K. H. B.]ft a (agtaf). an inland in the lake Tritonia inauraraf Libra (Herod, ir. 178), which Ste­la U_ cavpwBtaj frurn Herodotus, calls an islandr- (i. craiifooading it with the island of l'hilae • Vsa. USAiSJi. [FAtuat.]U.i.WF.1 CAMPI. [Cami-asia. p. 491, a.]IL1L4 (•Ajawr Elh. •Aido-ior, the territoryr.ii aa ttJ^petalent city in the north-eastern part of Peloponnesus, whose territory was boundedon the N. by Sicyonia, on the W. by Arcadia, onthe E. by Cleonae, and on the S. by Argolis. Thisterritory is n small valley about 900 feet above thelevel of the sea, surrounded by mountains, from whichstreams flow down on every side, joining the riverAsopus in the middle of the plain. The mountainin the southern part of the plain, from which theprincipal source of the Asopus springs, was calledCarneates (KapMdrnt) in antiquity, now Pohjfmgo.(Strab. viii. p. 382.) The territory of Phlius wascelebrated in antiquity for its wine. (Athen. i.p. 27, d.) According to Strabo (viii. p. 382), theancient capital of the country was Araethyrea ('Apai-Qvpia) on Mt. Celosse, which city is mentioned byHomer (/£ ii. 571); but the inhabitants subse­quently deserted it and built Phlius at the distanceof 30 stadia. Pausanias (ii. 12. §§ 4, 5), however,does not speak of any migration, but says that thoancient capital was named Arantia ('Apm-r(a), fromits founder Arss, an autochthon, that it was after­wards called Araethyrea from a daughter of Aras,and that it Anally received the name of Phlius, fromPhlias, a son of Ceisus and grandson of Temenus.The name of Arantia was retained in the time ofPausanias in the hill Arantinus, on which the citystood. Hence the statement of grammarians thatboth Arantia and Araethyrea were ancient names ofPhlius. (Steph. B. s. m. 4>Aiovs, 'Apairia; Schol.ad Apull. Rhod. i. 115.) According to StephanusB. (s. v. $Atous) Phlius derived its name from Dio­nysus and Chthonophyle. Phlius was subsequentlyconquered by Dorians under Bhegnidas, whocame from Sicyon. Some of the inhabitant- mi­grated to Samoa, others to Clazomenae; among thesettlers at Samoa was Hippasus, from whom Pytha­goras derived his descent. (Pans. ii. 13. § I, seq.)Like most of the other Doric states, Phlius wasgoverned by an aristocracy, though it was for a timesubject to a tyrant Leon, a contemporary of Pytiia-goras. (Diog. Laert. i. 12, viii. 8; Cic. Ttac. v. 3.)Phlius sent 200 soldiers to Thermopylae (Herod,vii. 202), and 1000 to Plataea (ix. 28). Duringthe whole of the Peloponnesian War it remainedfaithful to Sparta and hostile to Argos. (Thuc. v.57, seq., vi. 105.) But before B. c. 393 a changeseems to have taken place in the government, for inthat year we tind some of tlio citizens in exile whoprofessed to be the friends of the Lacedaemonians.The Phliasiaus, however, still continued faithful toSparta, and received a severe defeat from Iphicrates inthe year already mentioned. So much were they weak­ened by this blow that they were obliged to admit aLacedaemonian garrison within their walls, whichthey had been unwilling to do before, lest their alliesshould restore the exiles. But the Lacedaemoniansdid not betray the confidence placed in them, andquitted the city without making any change in thegovernment. (Xen. Hell. iv. 4. § 15, seq.) Tenyears afterwards (b. c 383) the exiles induced theS[nrtan government to espouse their cause; and withthe fate of Mantincia before their eyes, the Phliasiausthought it more prudent to comply with the requestof the Spartans, and received the exiles. (Xen.Ih-it. v. 2. § 8, seq.) But disputes arising betweenthe returned exiles and those who were in possessionof the government, the former again appealed toSparta, and Agesilaus was sent with an army inD. c. 380 to reduce the city. At this period Phliuscontained 5000 citizens. Agesilaus laid siege to thecity, which held out for a year and eight months.