OCR Output 910 SARDINIA. SARDINIA. sent as proconsul to the island, and after two yearsof continuous warfare lie earned the distinction of atriumph, a sufficient proof of the formidable cha­racter of the insurrection. (Eutrop. iv. 25; Ruf.Fest. 4.) Tliis is the last time we hear of any warof importance in Sardinia; but even in the time ofStrabo the mountaineers were in the habit of plun­dering the inhabitants of the more fertile districts,and the Roman praetors in vain endeavoured tocheck their depredations. (Strab. v. p. 225.) The administration of the province was entrustedthroughout the period of the Republic to a praetoror propraetor. Its general system was the same asthat of the other provinces; but Sardinia was in somerespects one of the least favoured of all. In thetime of Cicero it did not contain a single free orallied city (civitan fuederata) (Cic. pro Scaur. §44): the wlmle province was regarded as conqueredland, and hence the inhabitants in all cases paidthe tenth part of their corn in kind, as well as aitipewlium or annual contribution in money. (Cic.pro Balb. 18; Liv. xxiii. 41.) From the great fer­tility of the island in corn, the former contributionbecame one of the most important resources of theRoman state, and before the ckm of the Republic wefind Sardinia, Sicily, and Africa alluded, to as the"tria frumentaria subsidia reipublicjie.'' (Cic. prol*g. Monti, 12; Yarr. H. H. ii. I'r. § 3; ValeriusMaximua also terms them "bcnignissimae urbisnostrae nutrices,'' vii. 6. § 1.) For this reason, assoon as Foinpeius was appointed to the commandagainst the pirates, one of his first cares was to pro­tect the coasts of these three provinces. (Cic. /. c.)Among the eminent persons who at different timestilled the office of praetor or propraetor in Sardinia,may be mentioned the elder Cato in u. c 198 (Liv.xxxii. 8, 27); Q. Antoinus iialbus, who was ap­pointed by Mariu to the government of the island,but was defeated and killed by L. 1'hilippus, the le­gate of Sulla, b.c. 82 (Liv. Epit. Ixxxvi.); M,Atius Balbus, the grandfather of Augustus, who waspraetor in b. c. 62, and struck a coin with the head ofSardus Fater, which is remarkable as the only onebelonging to, or connected with, the island [Biogr,Diet. Vol. I. p. 455] ; and M. Aemilius Scaurus, whowas praetor in b, 0. 53, and was accused by theSardinians of oppression and peculation in his govern­ment, but was defended by Cicero in an oration ofwhich some fragments are still extant, which throwan important light on the condition and adminis­tration of the island. (Cic. pro Scaur, ed. Orell.;Ascon. in Scaur.) In b. c. 46 the island was visited by Caesar onhis return from Africa, and the Sulcitani severelypunished for the support they had given to Nasidius,the admiral of Fompcy. (Hirt. B. Afr. 98.) Thecitizens of Caralis, on the contrary, had shown theirze:tl in the cause of Caesar by expelling M. Cotta,who had been left by Fompey in charge of the is­land. (Caes. B. C. i. 30.) Sardinia was afterwardsoccupied by Menodorus, the lieutenant of SextusPompeius, and was one of the provinces which wasassigned to the latter by the treaty of Misenum,b. c. 39; but it was subsequently betrayed by Meno­dorus himself into the hands of Octavian. (DionCass, xlviii. 30, 36, 45; Appian, B. C. v. 56, 66,72, 80.) It was probably for some services renderedon one or other of these occasions that the citizensot Caralis were rewarded by obtaining the rights ofRoman citizens, a privilege apparently conferred onthem by Augustus. (" Caralitani civium Ruma- nornm," Plin. iiL 7. s. 13.) This was a fci iinof Fliny the only privileged town in the olaad: Mta Roman colony had been planted in tie emswKat a place called Turria Libysoou. (Pin. L t)Two other colonies were established in the aaad aa later period (probably under HadrncV m uUsellis, on the W. coast, the otiur ml Corns, (hiiii. 3. § 2; Zumpt, de CoL p. 410.) Under the Roman Empire we hear bet fob a*Sardinia, which continued to be noted darfi iits abundant supply of corn, and ftc theehealthiness of its climate. In addition te the Idisadvantage, it suffered severely, as already itioned, from the perpetual incursions of tb* «iimountain tribes, whose depredations the Eamaigvernors were unable to repress. (Smb. t. a,l~*With the view of checking these marauder*, idetermined in the reign of Tiberius to fttattthe island a body of 4000 Jew* and Egyptian, 1it was observed, would be little loss if thr» iperish from the climate. (Tac Ann. ii. 85.)have no account of the success of this ibut it would seem that all the intahttratt rf iisland were gradually brought under the 1vemment, as at the present day even tlmountaineers of the interior speak a dialer* <f pA^jLatin origin. (De la Marmora, Von. ea Su4-1pp. 198, 202.) It is clear also from tbe iroads given in the Itineraries, as well is Iremains of them still existing, and the rains a* a^ducts and other ancient buildings still \the island must have enjoyedof prosperity under tbe Roman Empire,exertions were repeatedly made for itsment. At the same time it was freqotc'Jwas a place of exile for political offenders, miwho had given umbrage to the emperors. (T«xiv. 62, xvi. 9, 17; Dion Casa. M.S7?!32.) Its great importance to Borne dewa 1latest period of the Kmpire, as one of the |sources from which the capital was eapfAad 1corn, is attested by many writers, sa that i"Jlength it was occupied by the Vandals, it isays a contemporary writer, aa if the \the city had been cut off. (FmdenL. an*. Iii 942; Salvian. de Provid, vi) During tbe greater part of theSardinia continued to be united withone province: this was one of tboae isenate in the division under Augustus (Cliii. 12); it was therefore under the ronrna magistrate styled proconsul; bat aecawaspecial governor was sent thither by tbe esapthe repression of the plundering native*.:28; Orell. Inter. 74, 2377.) Afar the 1Constant ine, Sardinia and Corsica formed t*rate provinces, and had each its own ga**rai ,bore the title of Fraeses, and was defiatajVitarius Urbis Romae. (A'oL Dijm. ii. p. 44; Iing, ad he.; Ruf. Fest. 4.) It was not till Jthat Sardinia was wrested from the IGenseric, kinc of the Vandals: ifor a time by Mareellianus, it soon fell ihands of the barbarians, to wtxw it Isubject till tbe fall of the VandalAfrica, when Cyrillus recovered poswisland for Justinian, a. d. 534. (Frorop. A 110, 11, ii. 5.) It was againGothic king TotQa in a. ix. 551 i I i. /. '.. ■but was recovered by Xarsea after thethat monarch, and seems from this parsed 1