OCR Output 318 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. father and her brother to be slain. And when he took this in­jury very unkindly, and was ready to use violence to her, in aprecipitate manner, the king's sister Salome, observingthathe wasmore than ordinarily disturbed, sent into the king his cup-bearer,who had been prepared long beforehand for such a design,and bid him tell the king, how Mariamne had persuaded him togive his assistance in preparing a love potion for him; and if heappear to be greatly concerned, and to ask what that love potionwas? to tell him, that she had the potion, and that he was de­sired only to give it him: but that in case he did not appear to bemuch concerned at this potion, to let the thing drop, and that i.he did so, no harm should thereby come to him. When she hadgiven him, these instructions, she sent him in at this time to makesuch a speech. So he went in, after a composed manner, to gaincredit to what he should say, and yet somewhat hastily, and said,that " Mariamne had given him presents, and persuaded him to"give him a love potion." And when this moved the king,he said, that " this love potion was a composition that she had"given him, whose effects he did not know, which was the reason"of his resolving to give him this information, as the safest"course he could take, both for himself and for the king." WhenHerod heard what he said, and was in an ill disposition before,his indignation grew more violent: and he ordered that eunuchof Mariamne's who was most faithful to her, to be brought totorture about this potion, as well knowing it was not possiblethat any thing small or great could be done without him. Andwhen the man was under the utmost agonies, he could say no­thing concerning the thing he was tortured about, but so far he:new that Mariamne's hatred against him was occasioned bysomewhat that Sohemus had said to her. Now, as he was say­ing this, Herod cried out aloud, and said, that " Sohemus, who"had been at all other times most faithful to him, and to his go-"vernment, would not have betrayed what injunctions he had"given him; unless he had had a nearer conversation than ordin-"ary with Mariamne." So he gave order that Sohemus shouldbe seized on and slain immediately; buthe allowed his wife to takeher trial: and got together those that were most faithful to him,and laid an elaborate accusation against her for this love potionand composition, which had been charged upon her by way ofcalumny only. However, he kept no temper in what he said,and was in too great a passion for judging well about this matter.Accordingly, when the court was at length satisfied that he wasso resolved, they passed the sentence of death upon her: but'when the sentence was passed upon her, this temper was suggest­ed by himself, and by some others of the court, that she shouldnot be thus hastily put to death, but be laid in prison in one ot