OCR Output 40 WOUKING OF GOLD MINES. called Corrugi,5 as I suppose from the word corrivatio, i. e. drawingthe river into one channel. This is indeed a most laborious un­dertaking. It is necessary that the level should be so adjusted asto produce a sufficient current for the stream, and for this purposethe water is brought from the highest point that is practicable.If it has to pass across a valley, it is necessary to build a canalover it. In some places the passage is obstructed by rocks, whichthey cut through; and a space is thus formed through whichwooden troughs are carried. The man who cuts through the rockis suspended by ropes, so that those who see him at a distancemight suppose him to be some species, not indeed of wild beast,but of bird. While they are hanging in this manner they takethe level of the ground, and mark out the line in which the water­course is to be carried; for there is no space left on which theycan rest their feet. They remove all the rubbish with their hands,and carry it away in baskets. This kind of earth they call Urium;6they therefore avoid the urium, and, as far as is practicable, con­duct the water-course through the hard rock or solid stone. Whenthey have brought the water to the brow of the hill, they dig largeponds, 200 feet in length and breadth, and ten in depth; in thesethey generally leave five sluices, three feet square; when the pondis filled, they open the gates, and the torrent rushes down with somuch violence, as to drive before it all the masses of stone thatstand in its way. And there is another laborious process to be gone through inthe lower ground. Trenches are dug, through which the watermay flow: they are called Agangae,7 and furze is laid at intervalsabove their sides. This is a shrub somewhat like rosemary,which, from its roughness, serves to detain the gold. The sidesof these trenches are enclosed with planks, and where the groundis uneven, they are raised upon arches, so that the stream is madeto flow from the land to the sea. These works have contributedto advance the prosperity of Spain.8 The ore which is procured 5 The French translator informs us, that corrugo is derived from an oldCastilian word which signifies a furrow; t. x. p. 590. ? The French translator states that urium is derived from the Celticword Our,water, because this kind of earth absorbs water; t. x. note in p. 592. 7 Or "Agandas," derived from the Castilian words aqua and andar, signify­ing water-courses; see French translation, t. x. note in p. 592. *■ "His de causis jam promovit Hispania." This is explained by theeditor of the Regent's edition, "Propius mari admovit puteos suos, fossas,