OCR Output CXI.] VESPASIAN GOES TO ROME. 153 eight months and five days;' and had he lived much longer, Icannot but think the empire would not have been sufficientfor his lust. Of the others that were slain were numberedabove fifty thousand. This battle was fought on the thirdday of the month Apellus [Casleu:] on the next day Mucianuscame into the city with his army, and ordered Antonius andhis men to leave off killing; for they were still searching thehouses, and killed many of Vitellius's soldiers, and many ofthe populace, as supposing them to be of his party, prevent­ing by their rage any accurate distinction between them andothers. He then produced Domitian, and recommended himto the multitude, until his father should come himself: so thepeople, being now freed from their fears, made acclamationsof joy for Vespasian as for their emperor, and kept festivaldays for his confirmation and for the destruction of Vitellius.5. And now, as Vespasian was come to Alexandria, thisgood news came from Rome, and at the same time came em­bassies from all his own habitable earth to congratulate himupon his advancement; and though this Alexandria was thegreatest of all cities next to Rome, it proved too narrow tocontain the multitude that then came to it. So upon thisconfirmation of Vespasian's entire government, which wasnow settled, and upon the unexpected deliverance of thepublic affairs of the Romans from ruin, Vespasian turned histhoughts to what remained unsubdued in Judea. However,he himself made haste to go to Rome, as the winter was nowalmost over, and soon set the affairs of Alexandria in order,but sent his son Titus, with a select part of his army, to de­stroy Jerusalem. So Titus marched on foot as far as Nico­ 1 The numbers in Josephus, chap. ix. sect. 2, 9, for Galba 7 months 7 days,for Otho 3 months 2 days, and here for Vitellius 8 months 5 days, do notagree with any Roman historians, who also disagree among themselves. And,indeed, Scaliger justly complains, as Dr. Hudson observes on chap. ix. sect.2, that this period is very confused and uncertain in the ancient authors.They were probably some of them contemporary together for some time; oneof the best evidences we have, I mean Ptolemy's Canon, omits them all, asif they did not altogether reign one whole year, nor had a single Thoth orNew-Year's day (which then fell upon Aug. 0,) in their entire reigns. Dioalso, who says that Vitellius reigned a year within ten days, does yet esti­mate all their reigns together at no more than 1 year, 1 month and 2 days.