OCR Output 44 INDIA. INDIA, 1831), tlie Indi nnd the Indus (Fragm. 174 and178), the Argante {Fragm. 176), the people of Opiaon the banks of the Indus (Fragm. 17.1), the Calaliae,(Fragm. 177; Uerod. iii. 38 ; or Calantioe, Herod, iii.97). Gondora and the Gandarii (Fragm. 178) andtheir city Caspapyrus {Fragm. 179; Caspotyrus,Herod, iii. 102, it. 44), are mentioned, in companywith other Eastern places. Further, it appears, fromthe testimony of Herodotus, that Scylax of Caryanda,who was sent by Dareius, navigated the Indus toCaspatyrns in I'actyice, and thence along theErythraean sea by the Arabian gulf to the coast ofEgypt (iv. 44); in the course of which voyage hemust have seen something of India, of which he issaid to have recorded several marvels (cf. Aristot.1'oliL vii. 14; Philostr. Vit. Apoli. Tgan. iii. 14;Tzetx. ChU. vii. 144); though Klausen has shownsatisfactorily, in his edition of the fragments whichremain, that the Periplus usually ascribed to thisScylax is at least as late as the time of Philip ofMacedon. The notices preserved in Herodotus and the re­mains of Ctesias are somewhat fuller, both havinghad opportunities, the one as a great traveller,the other as a resident for many years at the courtof Artaxerxes, which no previous writers had had.The knowledge of Herodotus (b. c. 484—408) is,however, limited to the account of the satrapies ofDareius; the twentieth of which, be states, compre­hended that part of India which was tributary tothe Persians (iii. 94), the country of the mostEastern people with whom be was acquainted (iii.95—102). To the S. of them, along the IndianOcean, were, according to his view, the AsiaticAethiopians (iii. 94); beyond them, desert. He addsthat the Indians were the greatest and wealthiestpeople known; he speaks of the Indus (on whosebanks, as well as on those of the Nile, crocodileswere to be seen) as flowing through their land (iv.44), and mentions by name Caspatyras (a town ofPactyice), the nomadic Padai (iii. 99), and the Ca-latiae (iii. 38) or Calantiae (iii. 97). He placesal?o in the seventh satrapy the Gandarii (iii. 91)[Gaxdabak], a race who, under the name ofGandkarat, are known as a genuine Sanscrit-speaking tribe, and who may therefore be consideredas connected with India, though their principal seatseems to have been on the W. side of the Indus,probably in the neighbourhood of the present Can-dahtir. Ctesias (about B. 0. 400) wrote twenty-threebooks of Pertica, and one of Indica, with otherworks on Asiatic subjects. These are all loot, exceptsome fragments preserved by 1'hotius. In his Per­tica he mentions some places in Bactria {Fragm. 5,ed. Babr) and Cyrtaea, on the Erythraean sea(Fragm.40); and in his Indica he gives an accountof the Indus, of the manners and customs of thenatives of India, and of its productions, some ofwhich bear the stamp of a too credulous mind, butare not altogether uninteresting or valueless. On the advance of Alexander through Bactrianato the banks of the Indus, a new light was thrownon the geography of India; and tho Greeks, for thefirst time, acquired with tolerable accuracy someknowledge of the chief features of this remarkablecountry. A number of writers—some of them offi­cers of Alexander's army—devoted themselves toa description of different parts of his route, or toan account of the events which took place duringhis progress from Babylon to the Hyphuia; and to the separate narratives of Betoo and Diognetas,Nearchus, Oncsicritus, Aristobulus, and Callis-thenes, condensed and extracted by Strabo, Pliny,and Arrian, we owe most of our knowledge ofIndia as it appeared to the ancients. None of theoriginal works of these writers have been preserved,but the voyage of Nearchus (the most important ofthem, though the places in India he names are fewin number) has been apparently given by Arrian(in his Indica) with considerable minuteness. Ne­archus seems to have kept a day-book, in which beentered the distances between each place. He noticesPattala, on the Indus (from which he started), andCoreatis (perhaps the present A'urdcflt). Pliny,who calls this voyage that of Neaochus and One-sicritus, adds some few places, not noticed by Arrian(vi. 23. s. 26). Onesicritus himself considered theland of the Indians to be one-third of the wholeinhabited world (Strab. xv. p. 691), and was lbsfirst writer who noticed Taprobane(Cejrfcm). (Ibid.p. 691.) Both writers appear, from Strabo, to haveleft interesting memorials of the manners and cus­toms of the natives (Strab. xi. p. 517, xv. p. 726)and of the natural history of the country. (Strab.xv. pp. 693, 705, 716, 717; Aelian, Hut. An. xvi.39, xvii. 6; Plin. vi. 22. s. 24, vii. 2. s. 2; Tie**.C/iiL iii. 13.) Aristobulus is so frequently qnotrdby Arrian and Strabo, that it is not improbable thathe may have written a distinct work on India: btis mentioned as noticing the swelling and floods ofthe rivers of the Punjab, owing to the melting of tinsnow and the rain (Strab. xv. p. 691), the mouthsof the Indus (p. 701), the Brachmanes at Taxila(p. 714), the trees of Hyrcania and India (sip. 509), the rice and the mode of its tillage (xv.p. 692), and the fish of the Nile and Indus, respec­tively (xv. p. 707, xvii. p. 804). Subsequently to these writers,—probably all in theearlier part of the third century B. c., — were somsothers, as Mcgasthenes, Daimachus, Patrocles and Ti-mosthriies, who contributed considerably to the in­creasing stock of knowledge relative to India. Ofthese, the most valuable addilious were those acquiredby Megosthenes andDaimachus,who were respectivelyambassadors from Seleucus to the Courts of San-drocottus (Chandragupta) and his successor Alli-trochades (Strab. ii. p. 70, xv. p. 702; Plin. vi.17. s. 21), or, as it probably ought to be written,Amitrochades. Mcgasthcncs wrote a work oftenquoted by subsequent writers, which he called ts'lySuci (Atlien. iv. p. 153; Clem. Alex. Strum. Lp. 132; Joseph, c. Apian, i. 20, Antiy. x. 11. $ I),in which he probably embodied the results of hisobservations. Prom the fragments which remain,and which have been carefully collected by Stbwan-beck (Mcgastlienu Indica, Bonn, 1846). it apprarsthat lie was the first to give a tolerably accu­rate account of the breadth of India, — making itabout 16,000 stadia (Arrian, iii. 7,8; Strab. i. p. 68.xv. p. 689),—to mention the Ganges by name, andto state that it was larger than the Indus (Arrian.v. 6, 10, Indie. 4, 13), and to give, besides this, **nenotice of no less than fifteen tributaries of the Indus,and nineteen of the Ganges. He remarked thatIndia contained 118 nations, and so many cities tlutthey could not be numbered (Arrian, Indie. 7.10); and observed (the first among the Greeks)the existence of caste* among the people (Mrab-xv. p. 703; Arrian, Ind. II, 12; Diod. ii. 40, 41;Solin. c. 5*2), with some peculiarities of the Indiaareligions system, and of the Brachmanes (or Bra\-