OCR Output INTRODUCTION*. his escape by sea undiscovered by the Athenian guard* Con­tinuing now amongst the Chalcideans, he made what militaryefforts he could, and killed many of the inhabitants of Ser-myle by an ambuscade he formed before that city ; and en­deavoured to prevail with the Peloponnesiahs to send up atimely relief. Phormio, also, after compleating the worksround Potidaea, with his sixteen hundred men ravaged Chal-cidica and Bottiaea: And some fortresses he took by storm. THESE were the reciprocal causes of dissension betweenthe Athenians and Peloponnesians. The Corinthians wereenraged at the blockade of Potidaea, a colony of their own, inwhich were shut up both Corinthians and other Peloponne­sians. The Athenians resented the proceedings qf the Pelo­ponnesians in seducing to a revolt a city in alliance with andtributary to them, and siding openly by a voluntary expeditionwith the warring rebels of Potidaea. Yet a war open andavowed had not yet broke out between them: Hostilitieswere suspended for a time. Hitherto it was merely a privatequarrel of the Corinthians. But, when once the blockade of Potidaea was formed, theCorinthians could hold no longer. In it their own people wereshut up, and they were at the same time in anxiety about theplace. They summoned their allies to repair immediately toLacedaemon, and thither they went themselves with loud ac­cusations against the Athenians, that " they had violated thetreaty, and injured Peloponnesus." The iEginetae indeed,from a dread of the Athenians, did not openly dispatch theirembassy ; but underhand they had a great share in fomentingthe war, asserting that" they were restrained in the privilegeof governing themselves, which had been allowed them bythe treaty." The Lacedaemonians, summoning to appear before themnot barely their allies, but whoever had any manner of chargeto prefer against the Athenians, assembled in grand councilas usual, and commanded them to speak: Others who werepresent laid open their respective complaints, but the Mega­