OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, la J ture of criminal and civil jurisprudence. Our duties to the state are simple anduniform; the law by which he is condemned, is inscribed, not only on brass ormarble, but on the conscience of the offender, and his guilt is commonly provedby the testimony of a single fact. But our relations to each other are various andinfinite: our obligations are created, annulled, and modified, by injuries, benefits,and promises; and the interpretation of voluntary contracts and testaments, whichare often dictated by fraud or ignorance, affords a long and laborious exercise tothe sagacity of the judge. The business of life is multiplied by the extent ofcommerce and dominion, and the residence of the parties in the distant provincesof an empire, is productive of doubt, delay, and inevitable appeals from the localto the supreme magistrate. Justinian, the Greek emperor ot Constantinople andthe east, was the legal successor of the Latian shepherd, who had planted a colo­ny on the banks of the Tiber. In a period of thirteen hundred years, the lawshad reluctantly followed the changes of government and manners: and the lauda­ble desire of conciliating ancient names with recent institutions, destroyed theharmony and swelled the magnitude, of the obscure and irregular system. Thelaws which excuse on any occasions the ignorance of their subjects, confess theirown imperfections; the civil jurisprudence, as it was abridged by Justinian, stillcontinued a mysterious science and a profitable trade, and the innate perplexityof the study was involved in tenfold darkness by the private industry of the prac­titioners. The expense of the pursuit sometimes exceeded the value ot theprize, and the fairest rights were abandoned by the poverty or prudence of theclaimants. Such costly justice might tend to abate the spirit of litigation, but theunequal pressure serves only to increase the influence of the rich, and to aggravatethe misery of the poor. By these dilatory and expensive proceedings, the wealthypleader obtains a more certain advantage than he could hope from the accidentalcorruption of his judge. The experience of an abuse, from which our own ageand country are not perfectly exempt, may sometimes provoke a generous indig­nation, and extort the hasty wish of exchanging our elaborate jurisprudence forthe simple and summary decrees of a Turkish cadhi. Our calmer reflection willsuggest, that such forms and delays are necessary to guard the person and pro­perty of the citizen; that the discretion of the judge is the first engine of tyranny,and that the laws of a free people should foresee and determine every question thatmay probably arise in the exercise of power and the transactions of industry.But the government of Justinian united the evils of liberty and servitude: and theRomans were oppressed at the same time by the multiplicity of their laws, andthe arbitrary will of their master. CHAPTER XLV. lieign, of the younger Justin.—Embassy of the .inars.—Their settlement on the Danube.—Conquest of Italy by the Lombards.—.adoption and reign of Tiberius.—Of Mau­rice.—Stale of Italy under the Ijombards and exarchs.—Of Ravenna Distress of Home.—Character and pontificate of Gregory I. During the last years of Justinian, his infirm mind was devoted to heavenlycontemplation, and he neglected the business of the lower world. His subjectswere impatient of the long continuance of his life and reign: yet all who were ca­pable of reflection, apprehended the moment of his death, which might involvethe capital in tumult, and the empire in civil war. Seven nephews(l) of thechildish monarch, the sons or grandsons of his brother and sister, had been edu­cated in the splendour of a princely fortune; they had been shown in high com­mands to the provinces and armies; their characters were known, their followerswere zealous, and as the jealousy of age postponed the declaration of a successor,they might expect with equal hopes the inheritance of their uncle. He expiredin his palace after a reign of thirty-eight years; and the decisive opportunity wasembraced by the friends of Justin,' the son"of Vigilantia.(2) At the hour of mid- (1) See the family of Justin and Justinian in the Fani'illse Bvzantime of Ducaiure. p. 83—101. The devoutcivilians LudewiWio Vil. Justinian, p. 131.) and Heineccius (Hist. Juris. Koman. p. 574.) have since illustratedthe eenealofcy of their favourite prince. . . (2) In the history of Justin's elevation, I have translated into simple and concise ptojc, the eight hundred Vol. III. 20