OCR Output r..i i MESSANX MKSSA. by the present llfotvl.—the name of which is pro-liaMy a corruption of tlic old name,—and tliat theruins of Ktiywijik, in its immediate neighbourhood(now certainly ascertained, by Colonel ltawlinson'sdecipherment of the inscriptions found there, toliave been a vast palace erected by Sennacherib),ure those which Xenophon beheld in a state muchless injured by time and violence than they areat present. (Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p.658.) [V.j MESSA (M«o-cT7j), one of the nine cities of La-conia enumerated by Homer, who gives it the epithetof TroKvTpfouiv, "abounding in pigeons" (/£ ii. 502).Strabo says that the position of Messa was unknown(viii. p. 364); but l'ansanias mentions a town andharbour, named Messa (iii. 25. § 9). which is iden­tified by most modern scholars with the Homerictown. This Messa, now Mezapo, is situated onthe western coast of Mani, between Hippola andOetylus; and the cliffs in the neighbourhood aresaid to abound in wild pigeons. (Leake, Morea,vol. i. p. 286; Boblaye, Hechercha, <fc. p. 91;Curtius, l'tloponneios, vol. ii. p. 282.) Leake,however, has subsequently conjectured that Messacorresponds to Mittra in the Spartan plain, partlyon account of its site, and partly because theMessa of Pausanias could never, from its situation,have been a place of much importance. (Pelopon-nesiaca, p. 357.) But there does not appear anysufficient reason for rejecting the identity of theMessa of Pau&inias with the Messe of Homer. MESSABATE'NE (Plin. vi. 27. s. 31 ; Mefftro-fiaTun). Strab. xi. p. 524: F.th. VliaaaSirat, Ptol.vi. 4. § 3), a narrow district in the mid-land ofSusiana (as indeed its name implies), situated ac­cording to Pliny under Mt. Cambalidus (one of thesouthern spurs of Mt. Zagros), to the N. of the tribeof the Cossiaci. Strabo states that it lies nnderZngrus, and is either a part of Media, or, as othershold, of Elrmaea (xi. p. 524): in another place hecalls Massabatice an eparchatc of Elymaea, andadds that the best pass into Assyria lay through it(xvi. p. 744). Ptolemy (I. c), who does not mentionthe district by its name, makes the Messabatae theinhabitants of Paraetacene, itself a subdivision ofPersis, adjoining Media. [V.] MESSA'NA or MESSE'NE (Meo-ffTjnj in almostall Greek authors, but the Doric form Mfffo'dVo,which is found in Pindar, was universally in useamong the citizens themselves, and was from themadopted by the Romans, who always write the nameMcssana: Eth. M*<rtrQytoi and MfffffdVior, Messa-nensis: ifessiiw), an important city of Sicily, situatedon the strait which divided that island from Italy,nearly oppnMto to Khegitim, and only a few milesfrom Cape Pelorus, the NE. extremity of the island.It was originally called Zanci.k (Zd-vsAn: lii/i.ZayxKiuos), a name said to be of Siculian origin, de­rived from ZdyicKoy, which in the language of thatpeople meant a sickle, aud was obviously applied tothe spot from the peculiar configuration of tlieenrvedspit or point of sand which encloses its port. (Thuc.vi. 4; Steph. Byz. t. v. Ziyic\ri; Strab. vi. p. 268;Diod. iv. 85.) From this derivation of the name itwould appear probable that there was a Siculian set­tlement on the spot, before it was occupied by theGreeks; but no mention of this is found in history,and all ancient writers describe Zancle as a Chalcidiccolony. According to Thm-ydides it was at firstfounded by a band of pirates from the ItaliAn Cumae,itself a colony of Chalcis; but the advantageous sitnation of the place soon led to the establishmentthere of a more regular colony, consisting of settlorsfrom Chalcis and the other cities of Eub>«. at thehead of whom were Perieres of Chalci* and Cratae-inenes of Cumae, who became the joint founders <rOekists of the new colony (Thuc, vi. 4). This state­ment ofThucydides is confirmed in its leading poutsby l'ansanias; while Scymnos Cuius, aa well asStrabo, though agreeing in its Chalcidic origin, ra>present it as founded immediately from the Chalrsiiecolony of Naxos in Sicily. (Paus. iv. 23. § 7: Scyma.Ch. 284—286; Strab. vi. p. 268.) From this Urfversion we may infer that it was looked upon as rimore recent origin than Naxos, and therefore i»*founded till after 735 B. c; bnt we have no c'.a* \»the precise, or even approximate date, of its esta­blishment. Of its early history we know scarcelyanything; but we may probably infer that it ro-eearly to a flourishing condition, from the circumstarswthat the Zanclaeans were able before the cloae of theseventh century B. c. to establish two colonies on lbsN. coast of the island: Mylae, about 30 milea W. MCape Pelorus, and Himera, much further to the W.(Thuc vi. 5; Scymn. Ch. 288; Strab. vi. p. 272 )The latter grew up into a great and powerful cily.hut Mylae appears to have continued for the ovalpart a mere dependency of Zancle. (Strab. L c.) The Zanclaeans appear to hare been still desir-josof extending their colonial system in this direction,and were endeavouring to induce fresh settlers from theIonian cities of Asia to co-operate with them in thisenterprise, when the fall of Miletus in B. c 494gave a fresh impulse to emigration from that quarter.A large body of Samians, together with some of thasurviving Milesians, were in consequence induced Uaccept the invitation of the Zanclaeans, and srt oatfor Sicily, with the purpose of establishing themselveson the N. coast between Mylae and Himera, whichwas commonly known as " the Fair Shore ^ (if KaXk'A/tTij.) But having arrived, on their way, at LornEpizephyrii, they were here per.-ua.led by AnaxiUa,tyrant of Rhegium, to take a treacherous advairumof the absence of the Zanclaean troops, who wereengaged in military operations eUewhere, and surprisethe city of Zancle itself. That city was at this limaunder the government of a despot named Scythe*, towhom Herodotus gives the title of king. On findingthemselves thus betrayed, the Zanclaeans invokedthe assistance of the powerful Hippocrates, despot ofGela: but that monarch in his turn betrayed them,and instead of aiding them to recover pns-eassa c«TZancle, made common cause with the Samians. whomhe confirmed in the possession of the city, while hathrew Scythes into prison, and reduced the greaterpart of the Zanclaeans into captivity. (Ilrrod. vi Tt—24: Thuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch. 293: Arist. /'oi v.3.) By this sudden revolution, the Samians faosdthemselves in undisputed possession of Zancle, batthey did not long enjoy their new ac*}ui>itiuo. Natmany years afterwanla they were in their turn re­duced to subjection by Anaxilas himself, who is aaaito have expelled them from the city, which hepeopled with a mixed body of colonists, wtula b>gave to it the name of Messene, in resnetnbraiic* <dthe land of that name in Greece, from which his onancestors derived their descent. (Thuc. vi. 4; Herod.vii. 164; Strab. vi. p. 268.) The exact period uf this revolution caaaat ka de­termined with certainty; but the first trt*lTr«n: Uthe Samians at Zstu le cannot be carried back furthertlutu u c. 493, while their subw^utol expahuoo «r