OCR Output CHAP. LI. 441 treachery, the Spaniards will repeat the popular story ofhis daughter Cava;g of a virgin who was seduced, orravished, by her sovereign; of a father who sacrificedhis religion and country, to the thirst of revenge. Thepassions of princes have often been licentious and de­structive; but this well-known tale, romantic in itself,is indifferently supported by external evidence; and thehistory of Spain will suggest some motives of interestand policy more congenial to the breast of a veteranstate of statesman.'1 After the decease or deposition ofthe Gothic Witiza, his two sons were supplanted by theambition of Roderic, a noble Goth, whose father,the duke or governor of a province, had fallen a victimto the preceding tyranny. The monarchy was still elec­tive; but the sons of Witiza, educated on the steps ofthe throne, were impatient of a private station. Theirresentment was the more dangerous, as it was varnishedwith the dissimulation of courts: their followers wereexcited by the remembrance of favours and the promiseof a revolution; and their uncle Oppas, archbishop ofToledo and Seville, was the first person in the church,and the second in the state. It is probable that Julianwas involved in the disgrace of the unsuccessful faction;that he had little to hope and much to fear from the newreign; and that the imprudent king could not forget orforgive the injuries which Roderic and his family hadsustained. The merit and influence of the count ren­dered him a useful or formidable subject: his estateswere ample, his followers bold and numerous, and it wastoo fatally shewn that, by his Andalusian and Maurita-nian commands, he held in his hand the keys of theSpanish monarchy. Too feeble, however, to meet his » Le viol (says Voltaire) est aussi difficile a faire qu'a prouver. Des Evequesse seroient ils lifpea pour une li IK'.? (Hist. Generate, c. 26.) His argument is notlogically conclusive. b In the story of Cava, Mariana (lib. 6. c. 2t. p. 241, 242.) seems to vie withthe Lucretia of Livy. Like the ancients, he seldom quotes; and the oldest tes­timony of Baronius, (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 713, no. 19.) that of Lucas Tudensif,& Galiician deacon of the thirteenth century, only says Cava quam pro concubiniiutebatur.