OCR Output 471 ROMAN EMPIRE. the siege was continued through the winter by the neg­lect rather than by the resolution of the caliph Omar."The winter proved uncommonly rigorous: above a hun­dred days the ground was covered with deep snow, andthe natives of the sultry climes of Egypt and Arabia laytorpid and almost lifeless in their frozen camp. Theyrevived on the return of spring; a second effort had beenmade in their favour; and their distress was relieved bythe arrival of two numerous fleets, laden with com, andarms, and soldiers; the first from Alexandria, of fourhundred transports and galleys; the second of threehundred and sixty vessels from the ports of Africa. Butthe Greek fires were again kindled, and if the destruc­tion was less complete, it was owing to the experiencewhich had taught the Moslems to remain at a safe dis­tance, or to the perfidy of the Egyptian mariners, whodeserted with their ships to the emperor of the Chris­tians. The trade and navigation of the capital were re­stored; and the produce of the fisheries supplied thewants, and even the luxury, of the inhabitants. But thecalamities of famine and disease were soon felt by thetroops of Moslemah, and as the former was miserablyassuaged, so the latter was dreadfully propagated, by thepernicious nutriment which hunger compelled them toextract from the most unclean or unnatural food. Thespirit of conquest, and even of enthusiasm, was extinct:the Saracens could no longer straggle beyond their lines,either single or in small parties, without exposing them­selves to the merciless retaliation of the Thracian pea­sants. An army of Bulgarians was attracted from theDanube by the gifts and promises of Leo; and thesesavage auxiliaries made some atonement for the evils „„ being with God, that he would not have anointed his ear (his own saying) to obtain a perfect cure of his last malady. The caliph had only oneshirt, and in an age of luxury his annual expense was no more than two drachms.(Abulpharagius, p. 131.) Haud din gavisus eo principe fait orbix Moslemas.(Abulfeda, p. 127.)