OCR Output 96 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. [b. IV. against themselves, and these impious wretches will be killedby their own darts : let us but make our appearance beforethem, and they will come to nothing. However, it is a rightthing, if there should bo any danger in the attempt, to diebefore these holy gates, and to spend our very lives, if notfor the sake of our children and wives, yet for God's sake,and for the sake cf his sanctuary. I will assist you bothwith my counsel and with my hand ; nor shall any sagacityof ours be wanting for your support, nor shall you see that Iwill be sparing of my body neither." 11. By these motives Ananus encouraged the multitude togo against the zealots, although he knew how difficult it wouldbe to disperse them, because of their multitude, and theiryouth, and the courage of their souls, but chiefly because oftheir consciousness of what they had done, since they wouldnot yield, as not so much as hoping for pardon at the last forthose their enormities. However, Ananus resolved to undergowhatever sufferings might come upon him, rather than over­look things now they were in such great confusion. So thomultitude cried out to him to lead them on against those whomhe had described in his exhortation to them, and every oneof them was most readily disposed to run any hazard what­soever on that account. 12. Now while Ananus was choosing out his men, and put­ting those who were proper for his purpose in array for fight­ing, the zealots got information of his undertaking (for therewere some who went to them, and told them all that the peoplewere doing,) and were irritated at it, and leaping out of thetemple in crowds and by parties, spared none whom they metwith. Upon this Ananus got the populace together on thesudden, who were more numerous, indeed, than the zealots,but inferior to them in arms, because they had not been regu­larly put into array for fighting: but the alacrity that everybody showed supplied all their defects on both sides, the citi­zens taking up so great a passion as was stronger than arms,and deriving a degree of courage from the temple more forci­ble than any multitude whatsoever; and indeed these citizensthought it was not possible for them to dwell in the city, un­