OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 181 age in which they appeared, there was no observer whodeemed it worth while accurately to describe the marvellousmeteor. When men afterwards began to trace the chain,of which this emigration, the first Germanic movement whichtouched the orbit of ancient civilization, was a link, thedirect and living knowledge of it had long passed away. This homeless people of the Cimbri, which hitherto had Cimbrianbeen prevented from advancing to the south by the Celts on movementsthe Danube, more especially by the Boii, broke through °"d con"that barrier in consequence of the attacks directed by theRomans against the Danubian Celts; either because thelatter invoked the aid of their Cimbrian antagonists againstthe advancing legions, or because the Roman attack pre­vented them from protecting as hitherto their northern fron­tiers. Advancing through the territory of the Scordisci Defeat ofinto the Tauriscan country, they approached in 641 the Carbo.passes of the Carnian Alps, to protect which the consul 113-Gnaeus Papirius Carbo took up a position on the heights notfar from Aquileia. Here, seventy years before, Celtic tribesbad attempted to settle on the south of the Alps, but at thebidding of the Romans had evacuated without resistance theground which they had already occupied (ii. 196); even nowthe dread of the Transalpine peoples at the Roman nameshowed itself powerfully. The Cimbri did not attack; in­deed, when Carbo ordered them to evacuate the territoryof the Taurisci wio were in relations of hospitality withRome—an order which the treaty with the latter by no meansbound him to make—they complied and followed the guideswhom Carbo had assigned to them to escort them over thefrontier. But these guides were in fact instructed to lurethe Cimbri into an ambush, where the consul awaited them.Accordingly an engagement took place not far from Noreiain the modern Cariuthia, in which the betrayed gained thevictory over the betrayer and inflicted on him considerableloss; a storm, which separated the combatants, alone pre­vented the complete annihilation of the Roman army.The Cimbri might have immediately directed their attacktowards Italy; they preferred to turn to the westward.By treaty with the Helvetii and the Sequani rather than byforce of arms they made their way to the left bank of theRhine and over the Jura, and there some years after Carbo'sdefeat once more threatened the Roman territory by their im­mediate vicinity. "With a view to cover the frontier of the