OCR Output THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 24? and to assert the right of a military election. They marched towards the capital;yet the clergy, the senate, and the people of Constantinople, adhered to the causeof Michael; and the troops and treasures of Asia might have protracted the mis­chiefs of civil war. But his humanity (by the ambitious it will be termed hisweakness) protested, that not a drop of Christian blood should be shed in his quar­rel, and his messengers presented the conquerors with the keys of the city and thepalace. They were disarmed by his innocence and submission; his life and his eyeswere spared; and the imperial monk enjoyed the comforts of solitude and reli­gion above thirty-two years after he had been stripped of the purple and separatedfrom his wife. A rebel in the time of Nicephorus, the famous and unfortunate Bardanes, hadonce the curiosity to consult an Asiatic prophet, who, after prognosticating his fall,announced the fortunes of his three principal officers, Leo the Armenian, Michaelthe Phrygian, and Thomas the Cappadocian, the successive reigns of the two for­mer, the fruitless and fatal enterprise of the third. This prediction was verified,or rather was produced by the event. Ten years afterwards, when the Thraciancamp rejected the husband of Procopia, the crown was presented to the same Leo,the first in military rank, and the secret author of the mutiny. As he affected tohesitate,—" With this sword," said his companion Michael, "I will open the gatesof Constantinople to your imperial sway; or instantly plunge it into "your bosom,if you obstinately resist the just desires of your fellow-soldiers." The compli­ance of the Armenian was rewarded with the empire, and he reigned seven yearsand a half under the name of Leo V. Educated in a camp, and ignorant both oflaws and letters, he introduced into his civil government the rigour and even cru­elty of military discipline; but if his severity was sometimes dangerous to the in­nocent, it was always formidable to the guilty. ■ His religious inconstancy was taxedby the epithet of Chameleon, but the catholics have acknowledged* by the voiceof a saint and confessors, that the life of the Iconoclast was useful to the republic.The zeal of his companion Michael was repaid with riches, honours, and militarycommand; and his subordinate talents were beneficially employed in the publicservice. Yet the Phrygian was dissatisfied at receiving as a favour a scanty por­tion of the imperial prize, which he had bestowed on his equal; and his discontent,which sometimes evaporated in a hasty discourse, at length assumed a more threat­ening and hostile aspect against a prince whom he represented as a cruel tyrant.That tyrant, however, repeatedly detected, warned, and dismissed the old com­panion of his arms, till fear and resentment prevailed over gratitude; and Michael,after a scsutiny into his actions, was convicted of treason, and sentenced to beburnt alive in the furnace of the private baths. The devout humanity of the em­press Theophano was fatal to her husband and family. A solemn day, the twenty-fifth of December, had been fixed for the execution; she urged, that the anniver­sary of the Saviour's birth would be profaned by this inhuman spectacle, and Leoconsented with reluctance to a decent respite. But on the vigil of the feast, hissleepless anxiety prompted him to visit at the dead of night the chamber in whichhis enemy was confined: he beheld him released from his chain, and stretched onthe jailor's bed in a profound slumber. Leo was alarmed at these signs of securi­ty and intelligence; but though he retired with silent steps, his entrance and de­parture were noticed by a .slave who lay concealed in a corner of the prison. Un­der the pretence of requesting the spiritual aid of a confessor, Michael informedthe conspirators, that their lives depended on his discretion, and that a few hourswere left to assure their own safety, by the deliverance of their friend and coun­try. On the great festivals a chosen band of priests and chanters was admittedinto the palace by a private gate to sing matins in the chapel; and Leo, who re­gulated with the same strictness the discipline of the choir and of the camp, wasseldom absent from those early devotions. In the ecclesiastical habit, but withswords under their robes, the conspirators mingled with the procession, lurked inthe angles of the chapel, and expected, as the signal of murder, the intonationof the first psalm by the emperor himself. The imperfect light, and the unifor­mity of dress, might have favoured his escape, while their assault was pointedagainst a harmless priest; but they soon discovered their mistake, and encom­passed on all sides the royal victim. Without a weapon and without a friend, hegrasped a weighty cross, and stood at bay against the hunters of his life; but ashe asked for mercy,—"This is the hour, not of mercy, but of vengeance," wasthe inexorable reply. The stroke of a well-aimed sword separated from hisbodvthe right arm and the cross, and Leo the Armenian was slain at tne foot of the altar.