OCR Output an. 1492.] 143 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When he had pitched his camp, the spies*came to him immediately, well acquaintedwith the whole state of the Canaanites. Forat first, hefore they were all discovered, theytook a full view of the city of Jericho withoutdisturbance, and saw which parts of the wallswere strong, and which parts were insecure,and which of the gates were so weak as mightafford an entrance to their army. Now thosethat met them took no notice of them whenthey saw them, and supposed they were onlystrangers, who used to be very curious in ob­serving every thing in the city, and did nottake them for .enemies. At even they retiredto a certain inn that was near the wall,whither they went to eat their supper, butwhen they had finished their repast, and wereconsidering how to get away, information wasgiven the king, that there were some personscome from the Hebrews' camp to view thecity, as spies; and that they were in the innkept by Rahab, and were very solicitous thatthey might not be discovered. So he sentimmediately and commanded to catch them,and bring them to him that he might examinethem by torture, and learn what their businesswas there. As soon as Rahab understood thatthese messengers were coming, she hid thespies under stalks of flax, which were laid to dry on the top of her house, and said to themessengers that were sent by the king, thatcertain unknown strangers had supped withher, a little before sun-setting, and were goneaway; who might easily be taken, if theywere any terror to the city, or likely to bringany danger to the king. So these messengersbeing thusf deluded by the woman, and sus­pecting no imposition, went their ways, with­out so much as searching the inn; but theyimmediately pursued them along those roadswhich they most probably supposed them tohave gone, and those particularly which ledto the river; but could hear no tidings ofthem, so they left off any farther pursuit. Butwhen the tumult was over, Rahab broughtthe men down, and desired them, as soon asthey should have obtained possession of theland of Canaan, when it would be in theirpower to make her amends for her preserva­tion of them, to remember what danger shehad undergone for their sakes; for, that ifshe had been caught concealing them, shecould not have escaped a terrible destruc­tion, she and all her family; and so bid themgo home, and desired them to swear to her,to preserve her and her family when theyshould take the city, and destroy all its in­habitants, as they had resolved to do. For * The eastern writers tell us, that these spies (whomthey make to be Caleb and Phineas) were valiant and re­ligious men, and in the prime of their youth; that to passunobserved, they changed their habits, as if they hadcome from a distant country; and if any one asked themany questions, their reply was to this effect: "We arepeople from the east, and our companions have heard ofthis powerful people, who were forty years in the wilder­ness, without either guide or provision; and it was re­ported to us, that they had a God whom they called tlieKins, of- Heaven and earth, and who (as they say) hathgiven them both your and our country. Our principalshave therefore sent us to find out the truth hereof, and toreport it to them.—We have likewise heard of their cap­tain, whom they call Joshua, the son of Nun, who put theAmalekiteslo flight, who destroyed Sihon and Og, thekings of Mmian and Moab. Woe therefore be to us, andyou, and all that flee to us for shelter! They are a peoplewho pity none, leave none alive, drive all out of theircountry, and make peace with none. We are all accountedby them infidels, profane, proud, and rebellious. Who­ever of us or you, therefore, that intend to take care ofthemselves, let them take their families, and be gone, lestthey repent of their stay, when it is too late." By thismeans they imposed upon the people; and, as Josephusinforms us, went whither they would, and saw whateverthey had a mind to, without any stop or question. Theytook a view of the wills, the gates, the ramparts, andpassed the whole day for men of curiosity only, without any design. So that if any credit may be given to this ac­count, it was but just that they who thus imposed upon theCanaanites should, in the same manner, be imposed uponby the Gibeonites. Chronicon Samaritanum Jtrabice scrip-turn, page 65. B. t It plainly appears by the history of these spies, andthe innkeeper Rahab's deception of the king of Jericho'smessengers, by telling them what was false, in order tosave tlie lives of the spies, and yet the great commendationof her faith and good works in the New Testament, Heb.xi. 32. Jam. ii. 25. as well as by many other parallel ex­amples both in the Old Testament, and in Josephus, thatthe best men did not then scruple to deceive those publicenemies, who might justly be destroyed; as also to de­ceive ill men, in order to save life, and deliver themselvesfrom the tyranny of their unjust oppressors; and this bytelling direct falsehoods. I mean all this where no oath'was demanded of them; otherwise they never durst ven­ture on such a procedure. Nor was Josephus himself ofany other opinion or practice; as I shall remark in thenote on Antiq. IX. 4, 3. And observe, that I still call thiswoman Rahab an innkeeper not a harlot; the whole his­tory, both in our other copies, and especially in Josephus,implying no more. It was indeed so frequent a thing thatwomen, who were innkeepers, were also harlots, or main-tainers of harlots, that the word commonly used for realharlots was usually given them. See Dr. Bernard's notehere, and Judg. xi. 1. and Josephus, Antiq. V, 7.