OCR Output C. XII.] AND CONSEQUENT MISERY. 227 4. However, when Titus in going his rounds along thosevalleys saw them full of dead bodies, and the thick putrefaction running about them, he gave a groan, and spreadingout his hands to heaven, called God to witness that this wasnot his doing ; and such was the sad case of the city itself.But the Romans were very joyful, since none of the seditiouscould now make sallies out of the city, because they werethemselves disconsolate, and the famine already touched themalso. These Romans besides had great plenty of corn andother necessaries out of Syria, and out of the neighboringprovinces ; many of which would stand near to the wall ofthe city, and show the people what great quantities of pro­visions they had, and so make the enemy more sensible oftheir famine, by the great plenty, even to satiety, which theyhad themselves. However, when the seditious still showedno inclinations of yielding, Titus, out of his commiserationof the people that remained, and out of his earnest desire ofrescuing what was still left of these miseries, began to raisehis banks again, although materials for them were hard to become at; for all the trees that were about the city had beenalready cut down for the making of the former banks. Yetdid the soldiers bring with them other materials from the dis­tance of ninety furlongs, and thereby raised banks in fourparts much greater than the former, although this was doneonly at the tower of Antonia. So Caesar went his roundsthrough the legions, and hastened on the works, and showedthe robbers that they were now in his hands. But thesemen, and these only, were incapable of repenting of thewickedness they had been guilty of; and separating theirsouls from their bodies, they used them both as if they be­longed to other folks and not to themselves: for no gentleaffection could touch their souls, nor could any pain affecttheir bodies, since they could still tear the dead bodies of thepeople, as dogs do, and fill the prisons with those that werosick.