OCR Output 26 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX. of wine was sometimes sold in Italy for less than threefarthings, and a quarter of wheat at about five shillingsand sixpence/ A country possessed of so many valuableobjects of exchange, soon attracted the merchants of theworld, whose beneficial traffic was encouraged and pro­tected by the liberal spirit of Theodoric. The free in­tercourse of the provinces by land and water was re­stored and extended; the city-gates were never shuteither by day or by night; and the common saying, thata purse of gold might be safely left in the fields, was ex­pressive of the conscious security of the inhabitants.uAriu" ^ difference of religion is always pernicious and oftenfatal to the harmony of the prince and people; the Go­thic conqueror had been educated in the profession ofArianism, and Italy was devoutly attached to the Ni-cene faith. But the persuasion of Theodoric was notinfected by zeal, and he piously adhered to the heresyof his fathers, without condescending to balance thesubtle arguments of theological metaphysics. Satisfiedwith the private toleration of his Arian sectaries, he justlyconceived himself to be the guardian of the public wor­ship; and his external reverence for a superstition whichhe despised, may have nourished in his mind the salutaryHistoiera- indifference of a statesman or philosopher. The Ca-Catholics. tholics of his dominions acknowledged, perhaps with re­luctance, the peace of the church ; their clergy, accord­ing to the degrees of rank or merit, were honourablyentertained in the palace of Theodoric; he esteemed theliving sanctity of Caesarius8 and Epiphanius,h the ortho­dox bishops of Aries and Pavia; and presented a decentoffering on the tomb of St. Peter, without any scrupul- 'LX inodli trilici in solidum ipsius tempore fuerunt, et vioum SO amphorM insolidnm. (Fragment. Vales.) Corn was distributed from the granaries at fifteen ortwenty-fire roodii for a piece of gold, and the price was still moderate. K See the life of St. Cssarius in Baronius. (A. D. 508. no. 12—14.) Tbaking presented him with three thousand gold solidi, and a discus of silver of the weightof sixty pounds. k Ennodius in vit. St Epiphanii, in Sirmond Op. torn. 1. p. 1672—1690. Theodoric bestowed some important favours on this bishop, whom he used as a counselloriu peace and war.