OCR Output 868 SAB1NL SABINI. soners were sold as slaves; the remaining citizenswere admitted to the Roman franchise, but withoutthe right of suffrage, and their princijwd towns werereduced to the subordinate condition of Praefeeturae.(Veil. Pat i. 14; Festus, s. v. Praeftcturae; Serv. adAen. vii. 709, whose statement can only refer tothis period, though erroneously transferred by trimto a much earlier one.) The right of suffrage was,however, granted to them about 20 years later(b. C. 268); and from this time the Sabines en­joyed the full rights of Roman citizens, and wereincluded in the Sergian trite. (Veil. 1'at. /. c; Cic.pro Bulb. 13, tn Yatin. 15.) This circumstanceat once separated tbem from the cau>e of the othernations of Italy, including their own kinsmen theSamnites, Picentes, and Peligni, during the greatcontest of the Social War. On that occasion theSabines, as well as the Latins and Cainpanians, werearrayed on behalf of Koine. The last occasion on which the name of theSabines as a people is found in history is duringthe Second Punic War, when they came forwardin a body to furnish volunteers to the army ofScipio. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) After their incorpora­tion with the Roman state, we scarcely meet withany separate notice of them, though they continuedto be regarded as among the bravest and hardiest ofthe subjects of Rome. Hence Cicero calls tlieiu"florcm Italiae at robur rei pubHcae." (Pro Liyar. no Under the Empire their name did not even con­tinue to be used as a territorial designation. Theirterritory was included in the Fourth Region byAugustus. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It was sub­sequently reckoned a part of the province of Valeria,and is included with the rest of that province underthe appellation of Picenum in the Liber Coloniarum.(Lib. Col. pp. 253. 257. &c; P. L>iuc. Hist. Lang.ii. 20; Moinmsen, ad Lib. Col. p. 212.) Butthough the name of the Sabines thus disappearedfrom official usage, it still continued in currentpopular use. Indeed it was not likely that a peopleso attached to ancient usages, and so primitive intheir habits, would readily lose or abandon theirold appellation. Hence it is almost the only in­stance in which the ancient name of a district orregion of Italy has been transmitted without alter­ation to the present day: the province of LaSabitiu still forms one of the twelve into which theStates of the Church are divided, and is comprisedwithin very nearly the same limits ax it was in thedavs of Strata. (Rampoldi, biz. Coroff. d Italia, «.».) 'I he country of the Sabines was, as already men­tioned, for the most part of a rugged and mountain­ous character; even at the present day it is cal­culated that above two-thirds of it are incapable ofany kind of cultivation. But the valleys are fertile,and even luxuriant; and the sides of the hills, andlower slopes of the mountains, are well adapted forthe growth both of vines and olives. The northern­most tract of their territory, including the uppervalleys of the Mar and Velinus, especially theneighbourhood of Nursia, was indeed a cold andbleak highland country, shut i- )n all sides by someof the highest ranges of the Apennines; and thewhole broad tract which extends from the group ofthe Monte Yelino, SE. of Beats, to the front ofthe mountain ranges that border the Campngna ofRome, is little more than a mass of broken andrugged mountains, of inferior elevation to the more central ranges of the Apennines, but AS uj (pen.inconsiderable. The Monte Oennaro (the UatLucretilis of Horace), which noes dirertlj fruea lisplain of the CaJtijxtgna, attains to ui fknw d4285 English feet above the va. Bat the i&Lximountain called Monte Tcrmimllo Dear le—um*NE. of /(«•/!, which forms a conspicuou* objasi itthe view from Rome, rises to a height at abea)70(H) feet, while the Monte Yelino, ofthe confines of the Sabiires and the Yentmi, i» ieVless than 8180 feet in height. The wtw4e of m\.ridge, also, which separates the Saba** fce%Picenum is one of the must elevated of u* Aanvnines. The Monti at.Ua Sibilla, in whkh the Intakes its rise, attain the height of 7200 feet. «sJHthe Monte Yettore and Puzo di Seen, whit a mmthe continuation of the same chain t* *m» ■!GVrtii Sasso, rise to a still greater ele»aii*ai. Tm%can be no doubt that these lofty and rugged fMHof mountains are those designated by the anaeaVHthe MoNS FlSCBLLUS, TaTTKICA (" Tetriea* M rentes rapes," Virg. Atm. vii. 713» and >nn«but we are unable to identify with any rcnaasyHparticular mountains to wb'kh these came* Mapplied. The more westerly part of tbe Srfflterritory slopes gradually from the lofty tuMthese central Apennines towards the valley af ■Tiber, and though always hilly is a fertisrjBproductive country, similar to tbe part ct Ua|Jwhich it adjoins. The lower valley of the VeHabout R>*ate was also celebrated for its fc<tafa|^fleven at the present day is deservedly levioeaMof the most beautiful districts in Italy. The physical character of the land *4 tbe&flevidently exercised a strong influence u^o tasflracier and manners of the people. HighiaadeaMmountaineers are generally brave, hardy, aod Hand the Sabines seem to have frev«esa«d *^ 4qualities in so high a degree that tlier becaoajflwere, the types of them among the Kotnana.calls them '" severissimi homines Sabiiu." aatlspeaks of the 4* discipline tetnea acSabinorum." (Cic. in Yatin. 15, LmmMLiv. i. 18.) Caio also described thefrugal mode of life of the early Romans a> m)/Mfrom the Sabines (op. Srrv. ad Ae%. vaLTheir frugal manners and moral panrr cs^lindeed, even under the Roman govenuneal. ftaflobject of admiration, and are often iutndocei'Hpoets of the Empire as a contr;i&t to tie loxaaHdissoluteness of the capital. (Hot. Cam, bi»9— 44, Kpod. 2. 41, EpUL ii. 1. %S; tMiii. 24. 47; Juv. iii. 169.) With them Jwere combined, as is not unfrequentlj Unmi dsecluded mountaineers, an earnest f+etv aaalflreligious feeling, together with a iiiinsanment to the religious usages and forms of llwhich had been transmitted to them by tmmcestora. The religion of the Sabines 4eaa>a^Hto have differed essentially frum thai <af iheflneighbouring nations of Italy, bat thrr taatS[teculiar divinities, or at least divioim u^ktflthe Latins or Etruscans, though scene «rf t^aaaJto have Urn common to the Umbnana iflhead of these stood Sane us. called also SeaatfHwho was the tutelary divinity ot tbe naliaa^^lreputed father of their mythical ;-vgv«aafeponymous hero Sabus. He vat cinsjecnd mpeculiar guardian of oaths, and was theaxv ceaflidentified by the Romans with l>;us Kadeana9others, for less obvious reasona, iUtnu£ed AaM