OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 329 without coming to any resolution, he said, ' that there­in he acted most prudently for the interest of the state;for the jEtolians would have it in their power to joinin alliance with whichever of the parties should bemore successful in the war.' Nothing farther was donein the assembly. 33. Meanwhile Philip was making vigorous prepa­rations for carrying on the war both by sea and land.His naval forces he drew together at Demetrias inThessaly; supposing that Attalus, and the Romanfleet, would move from jEgina in the beginning of thespring. He gave the command of the fleet and of thesea-coast to Heraclides, to whom he had formerly in­trusted it. The equipment of the land-forces he tookcare of in person; and thought that he had deprivedthe Romans of two powerful auxiliaries, the jEtolianson the one side, and the Dardanians on the other, bymaking his son Perseus block up the pass at Pela-gonia. The consul was employed, not in preparations,but in the operations of war. He led his army throughthe country of the Dassaretians, leaving the corn un­touched which he had brought from his winter quar­ters, for the fields afforded supplies sufficient for theconsumption of the troops. The towns and villagessurrendered to him, some through inclination, othersthrough fear; some were taken by assault, otherswere found deserted, the barbarians flying to theneighboring mountains. He fixed a standing camp atLycus near the river Beous, and from thence sent tobring in corn from the magazines of the Dassaretians.Philip saw the whole country filled with consternation,and not knowing the designs of the consul, he sent aparty of horse to discover his route. Sulpicius was inthe same state of uncertainty; he knew that the kinghad moved from his winter quarters, but in what di­rection he had proceeded, he knew not: he also hadsent horsemen to gain intelligence. These two par­ties having set out from opposite quarters, after wan­dering a long time among the Dassaretians, throughunknown roads, fell at length into the same road.