OCR Output METAPONTUM. 347 METAPONTUM. these two cities in a league against Siris, with theTie* of expelling the Ionian colonists of that city.(Justin, is. 2.) The war seems to have ended inthe capture and destruction of Siris, but our accountof it is rerr obscure, and the period at which ittook place very uncertain. [Siris.] It does notappear that Metapontum took any part in the warbetween Crotona and Sybaris, which ended in thedestruction of the latter city; but its name is fre­quently mentioned in connection with the changesintroduced by Pythagoras, and the troubles conse-qnent upon them. Metapontum, indeed, appears tohare been one of the cities where the doctrines andsect of that philosopher obtained the firmest footing.Ereu when the Pythagoreans were expelled fromCrotona, they maintained themselves at Metapontum,wbitber the philosopher himself retired, and wherehe ended his days. The Metapontines paid therreatest respect to his memory; they consecratedthe house in which he had lived as a temple toCeres, and gave to the street in which it was situ­ated the name of the Museum. His tomb was stillahown there in the days of Cicero. (Iambi. Vit.Pjtk. 170, 249, 266; Porphyr. Pit Pytk. 56, 57;Pint ilt Geo. Soer. 13; Diog. Laert. viii. 1. § 40;Liv. i. 18; Cic. ale Fin. v. 2.) The Metapontineswere afterwards called in as mediators to appeasethe troubles which had arisen at Crotona; and ap­pear, therefore, to have suffered comparatively littlethemselves from civil dissensions arising from thiswon*. (Iambi. 262.) At the time of the Athenian expedition to Sicily,B-c. 415, the Metapontines at first, like the otherstales of Magna Graecia, endeavoured to maintain astrict neutrality; but in the following year wereinduced to enter into an alliance with Athens, andfamish a small auxiliary force to the armamentunder Demosthenes and Eurymedon. (Diod. xiii. 4;Tirae. vi. 44, vii. 33, 57.) It seems clear that Me­tapontum was at this time a flourishing and opulentcity; nor have we any reason to suppose that itsdecline began until long after. From its position itw« secured from the attacks of Dionysius of Syra­cuse; and though it must have been endangered incommon with the other Greek cities by the advanc­ing power of the Lucanians, it does not appear tobare taken any prominent part in the wars withthat people, and probably suffered but little fromtheir attacks. Its name is again mentioned ina. c 345, when Timoleon touched there on his ex-fdition to Sicily, but it does not appear to havetaken any part in his favour. (Diod. xvi. 66.) Ina- c. 332, when Alexander, king of Epirus, crossedover into Italy at the invitation of the Tarentines,the Metapontines were among the first to conclude«a alliance with that monarch, and support him inhis wan against the Lucanians and Bruttians.Haute, after his defeat and death at Pandosia, B. c.316, it was to Metapontum that his remains were*»* for interment. (Justin, xii. 2; Liv. viii. 24.)Bat some years later, B. c. 303, when Cleonymusof Sparta was in his turn invited by the Tarentines,the Metapontines, for what reason we know not,pursued a different policy, and incurred the rcsent-*rat of that leader, who, in consequence, turned his°wu inns, as well as those of the Lucanians, againstIhra- He was then admitted into the city onfriendly terms, but nevertheless exacted from them* large mm of money, and committed various other"ceases. (Diod. xx'. 104.) It is evident that Me-tar/aaum was at this period still wealthy; but its citizens had apparently, like their neighbours theTarentines. fallen into a state of slothfulness andluxury, so that they were become almost proverbialfor their effeminacy. (Plut. Apophth. Lac. p. 233.) It seems certain that the Metapontines, as well asthe Tarentines, lent an active support to Pyrrhus,when that monarch came over to Italy; but we donot find them mentioned during his wars there;nor have we any account of the precise period atwhich they passed under the yoke of Rome. Theirname is, however, again mentioned repeatedly in theSecond Punic War. We are told that they wereamong the first to declare in favour of Hannibalafter the battle of Cannae (Liv. xxii. 61); but not­withstanding this, we find their city occupied bya Roman garrison some years later, and it was nottill after the capture of Tarentum, in B. c. 212, thatthey were able to rid themselves of this force andopenly espouse the Carthaginian cause. (Id. xxv. 11,15; Pol. viii. 36; Appian, Annib. S3, 35.) Han­nibal now occupied Metapontum with a Carthaginiangarrison, and seems to have made it one of his prin­cipal places of deposit, until the fatal battle of theMctanrus having compelled him to give up the pos­session of this part of Italy, is. c. 207, he withdrewhis forces from Metapontum, and, at the same time,removed from thence all the inhabitants in order tosave them from the vengeance of Rome. (Id. xxvii.1, 16, 42, 51.) From this time the name of Metapontum does notagain appear in history; and it seems certain thatit never recovered from the blow thus inflicted on it.But it did not altogether cease to exist; for its name)is found in Mela (ii. 4. § 8), who does not notice anyextinct places; and Cicero speaks of visiting it in'terms that show it was still a town. (Cic. rfe Fin.v. 2; see also Appian, B. C. v. 93.) That orator,however, elsewhere alludes to the cities of MagnaGraecia as being in his day sunk into almost com­plete decay; Strabo says the same thing, and Pan- msanias tells us that Metapontum in particular was inhis time completely in ruins, and nothing remainedof it but the theatre and the circuit of its walls.(Cic. de Amic. 4; Strab. vi. p. 262; Paus. vi. 19.§11.) Hence, though the name is still found inPtolemy, and the " ager Metapontinus " is noticed inthe Liber Coloniarum (p. 262), all trace of the citysubsequently disappears, and it is not even noticed inthe Itineraries where they give the line of routealong the coast from Tarentum to Thurii. The sitewas probably already subject to malaria, and fromthe same cause has remained desolate ever since. Though we hear much less of Metapontum thanof Sybaris, Crotona, and Tarentum, yet all accountsagree in representing it as, in the days of its pro­sperity, one of the most opulent and flourishing ofthe cities of Magna Graecia. The fertility of itsterritory, especially in the growth of corn, vied withthe neighbouring district of the Siritis. Hence weare told that the Metapontiues sent to the temple atDelphi an offering of "a golden harvest" (df oofXpvtrovv, Strab. vi. p. 264), by which we mustprobably understand a sheaf or bundle of cornwrought in gold. For the same reason an ear of combecame the characteristic symbol on their coins, thenumber and variety of which in itself sufficientlynttests the wealth of the city. (Milliugen, A'ttmit-matique efe t/lal!e, p. 22.) We learn also that theyhad a treasury of their own at Olympia still existingin the days of Pausanias (Paus. vi. 19. § 11 ; Athen.xi. p. 479). Herodotus tells us that they paid par­