OCR Output 360 wars or the jews. Book II. whole multitude, and gave orders that they should constrainthose that began the tumult, by force, to be quiet. At thesethe whole multitude were irritated, and threw stones at manyof the soldiers, and killed them : but the tribune fled awaywounded, and had much ado to escape so. After which theybetook themselves to their sacrifices, as if they had done no mis -chief; nor did it appear to Archelaus that the multitude couldbe restrained without bloodshed; so he sent his whole army up足on them, the footmen in great multitudes, by the way of thecity, and the horsemen by the way of the plain, who, fallingupon them on the sudden, as they were offering their sacrifices,destroyed about three thousand of them; but the rest of themultitude were dispersed upon the adjoining mountains; these-were followed by Archelaus's heralds, who commanded everyone to retire to their own homes, whither they all went, andleft the festival. CHAP. II. Archelaus goes to Rome with a great number of his kindred- Heis there accused before C<esar by Antipater ; but is superior tohis accusers in judgment, by the means of that defence whichNicolaus made for him. f 1. \ RCHELAUS went down now to the sea side, withJTjl his mother and his friends, Poplas, and Ptolemy, andNicolaus, and left behind him Philip, to be his steward in thepalace, and to take care of his domestic affairs. Salome wentalso along with him with her sons, as did also the king'sbrethren and sons-in-law. These, in appearance, went to givehim all the assistance they were able, in order to secure his- succession, but in reality to accuse him for his breach of thelaws, by what he had done at the temple. 2. But as they were come to Cesarea, Sabinus, the procura足tor of Syria, met them: he was going up to Judea, to secureHerod's effects; but Varus, [president of Syria], who was comethither, restrained him from going any farther. This VarusArchelaus had sent for, by the earnest entreaty of Ptolemy. Atthis time indeed, Sabinus, to gratify Varus, neither went to thecitadels, nor did he shut-up the treasuries where his father's mo足ney was laid up, but promised that he would lie still, untilCaesar should have taken cognisance of the affair. So he abodeat Cesarea; but as soon as those that were his hindrance weregone, when Varus was gone to Antioch, and Archelaus wassailed to Rome, he immediately went on to Jerusalem, andseized upon the palace. And when he had called for the go足vernors of the citadels, and the Stewards [of the king's private affairs],