OCR Output 402 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. This proceeding gave great offence to the other statesof Etruria, who not only had an aversion to monarchy,but a particular dislike to this king. His person andpride had formerly rendered him odious to the people,in having violently interrupted the yearly games, anyintermission in which was reckoned criminal. He hadstood candidate tor the office of high-priest, and by thesuffrage of the twelve Lucomonies, saw another prefer­red; in resentment of which affront, he took an oppor­tunity, when the games were at the height, to call offactors at a moment's warning, of which the greatestpart were his own slaves. For this reason, the Etrurians,of all the nations the most superstitious, and the mostprecise in the observance of every religious rite, weredetermined to suffer the Vejentes to stand on their ownlegs, whilst '.hey were subject to a king. The accountsof this resolution were suppressed at Veii for fear of theking, who would have treated the retailer of such intel­ligence as a disturber of the peace, whatever authorityhe had for the report he circulated. The Romans werenot without intelligence, that all was quiet in Etruria;yet as they had been advised that this affair had beendebated in all their councils, they raised fortifications tohave a double effect, and fronting different ways, to se­cure themselves against the city, and the sallies of thebesieged, and to prevent any succours that might comefrom Etruria. CHAP. II. A Winter . Campaign determined on, and oppoted by tlieTribunes. j. HE Roman generals, thinking it would be morepracticable to starve the city by a blockade, than to carryit by assault, ordered barracks to be built to defend themfrom the rigour of the season, a thing absolutely unknownto the Roman soldiery, as they were determined to con­tinue the war during the winter. When the noise ofthis resolution reached Rome, the.tribunes, who had beenlong at a loss for materials to raise a combustion, imme­diately repaired to the assembly, with a view to exaspe­rate the people; representing, ' That they might now