OCR Output 704 RHEGIUM. BHEGrUK where they adjoined the Loerian territory, while theLocrial) colonies of Medina and Hipponium preventedtheir extension on tlie N. Indeed, from the positionof Khegium it seems to have always maintainedcloser relations with Sicily, and taken more part inthe politics of that island than in those of the otherGreek cities in Italy. Between the Khegians andLocrians, however, there appears to have been n con­stant spirit of enmity, which might he readilyexpected between two rival cities, such near neigh­bours, and belonging to different races. (Time. iv.1,24.) Khegium appeal's to liavc participated largely inthe political changes introduced by the Pythagoreans,and even became, for a short time after the death ofPythagoras, the head-quarters of his sect (Iambi.Fit. Pyth 33, 130, 251); but the changes thenintroduced do not seem to have been permanent. It was under the reign of Anaxilas that lihegiumfirst ruse to a degree of power far greater than ithad previously attained. We have no account ofthe circumstances attending the elevation of thatdespot to power, an event which took place, ac­cording to Diodortis, in B.C. 494 (Diod. xi. 48);but we know that he belonged to one of the ancientMcssenian families, and to the oligarchy which hadpreviously ruled the state. (Strah. vi. p. 257; Pans,iv. 23. §6; Arist. Pol v. 12; Thuc. vi. 4.) Hence,when he made himself master of Zanele on theopposite side of the straits, he gave to that city thename of Messana, by which it was ever afterwardsknown. [Mrcss.\NA.] Anaxilas continued for someyears ruler of both these cities, and thus was undis­puted master of the Sicilian straits: still further tostrengthen himself in this sovereignty, lie fortifiedthe rocky promontory of Seyllaeuni, and establisheda naval station there to guard the straits againstthe Tyrrhenian pirates. (Strah. vi. p. 257.) Hemeditated also the destruction of the neighbouringcity of Locri, the perpetual rival and enemy ofKhegium, hut was prevented from carrying out hispurpose by the intervention of Hieron of Syracuse,who espoused the cause of the Locrians, and whoseenmity Anaxilas did not choose to provoke. (Schol.ad J'ind. Pyth. h. 34.) One of his daughters was,indeed, married to the Syracusan despot, whosefriendship he seems to have sought assiduously tocultivate. Anaxilas enjoyed the reputation of one of themildest and most equitable of the Sicilian rulers(Justin, iv. 2), and it is probable that lihegiumenjoyed great prosperity under his government. Athis death, in u.r. 47G, it passed without oppositionunder the rule of his two sons; hut the governmentwas administered during their minority by theirguardian Micythus, who reigned over both lihegiumand Messana for nine years with exemplary justiceand moderation, and at the end of that time gaveup the sovereignty into the hands of the two sons ofAnaxilas. (Diod. xi. 48, 00; Herod.vii. 170; Justin,iv. 2; Macrob. Sat. i. 1 1.) The^e, liowever, did nothold it long: they were expelled in B.C. 461, therevolutions which at that time agitated the cities ofSicily having apparently extended to lihegium also.(Diod. xi. 70.) The government of Micythus was marked by onegreat disaster: in n.c. 473, the Khegians, havingsent an auxiliary force of 3000 men to assist theTa routines against the Iapygians, shared in thegreat defeat which they sustained on that occasion[Tahkntl m]; but the statement of Diodorus that the barbarians not only pursued tta uj^tn-* «jgates of Rhegium, but actually mad? ihtz&l^masters of the city, may be safely rejectftidihle. (Diod. xi. 52; Herod, vii. 170; GrsU»4(of Greece, vol. v. p. 319.) A story told by Jailthat the Khegians being agitated by dgiae£: 4sensions, a body of mercenaries, who wm aiM\by one of the parties, drove out their oppwin*. tthen made themselves masters of the ritt bfigeneral massacre of the remaining cituste {imiv. 3), must be placed (if at all) shortlyexpulsion of the sons of Anaiilii; bui Uk »hstory has a very apocryphal air; it is ant eby any other writer, and it is certain UatifcijChalcidic citizens continued in pr«>esH0D«f Edown to a much later period. We have very little information as to it*of Khegium during the period which feQsnijexpulsion of the despots; but it seesa u 1retained ita liberty, in common with th« ar.:^cities of Sicily, till it fell under the yob ct I*In B.C.427, when the Athenians sent a 4* ■Laches and Charoeades to support liseagainst Syracuse, the Khegians e>p"as«i "J* dof the Chalcidic cities of Sicily, and not ar.r> tiittheir city to he made the head-qnartenolAnian fleet, but themselves furnished a nasi*auxiliary force. They were in conseqoec*<*2in continual hostilities with the Lochias- ift^54; Thuc. iii. 8G, iv. 1. 24. 25.) Bat uVj paa different course on occasion of the grot Aiaiexpedition to Sicily in B.C. 415. when tie?"to take any part in the contest; and tier*have persevered in this neutrality to the e&i J.jxiii. 3: Thuc. vi. 44, vii. I, 58.) It was not long after this that the:power of Dionysius of Syracuse, who bad ■in succession the chief Chalcidic cities cf S:came a subject of alarm to the Rhegusr■b.c. 399 they fitted out a fleet of 50 inr^an army of 6000 foot .mil 600 h«rse, to =»Uupon the despot. But the Messenians. »4i a<made common cause with them, bsnrx 0abandoned the alliance, they were cnmpeWErfrom the enterprise, and inade peace wita ft^(Diod. xiv. 40.) The latter, who wascreat war with Carthape, was desirous tofriendship of the Khegians; but hamatrimonial alliance were rejected with iin consequence concluded such an alliance iLocrians, and became from this time th» c?enemy of the Khegians. (/&. 44, 107.) It*hostility to the latter that he a few years394), after the destruction of Messina ttytteCginians, restoivd and fortified that city. as*|command the straits, and from whi«"h to osryenterprises in Southern Italy. The Rher-^sought toforestal him; they made an nnj*«dtack upon Messana, and were foiled in tfanr asnestablish a colony of Naxians at >hlar. •* »offence against the Mes&eni.ms. (/t. S7.) Eyear Dionysius, in his tnrn, made a p>3J*on Khegium itself, bat did not succeed in^the city; and after ravaging its ternary.polled to draw off his forces* (fb. 90.) Bat J390 he resumed the design on a Urper ^hud regular siege to the city with a fore**' Ifoot, 1000 horse, and a fleet of 120 tnnffl»Khegians, however, opp»»sed a Tin*0*** ^the fleet of Dionysius suffered severely im*and the approach of winter at length ctr^