OCR Output AN 1531.] 109 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. same time he promised to give that land totheir children, and to bestow on them thosegood things which their fathers had forfeitedby their ungoverned passions. When Moses had discoursed thus, accord­ing to the direction of God, the multitudegrieved, and were in affliction; and intreatedMoses to procure their reconciliation to God,and to permit them no longer to wander in thewilderness, but to bestow cities upon them;but he replied that God would not admit ofany such trial, for that God was not moved tothis determination from any human levity oranger, but that he had judiciously condemnedthem to that punishment. Now we are notto disbelieve that Moses, who was but a sin­gle person, pacified so many ten thousandswhen they were in anger, and converted themto a mildness of temper; for God was with him,and prepared the way to his persuasions of themultitude; and as they had often been diso­bedient, they were now sensible that such dis­obedience was disadvantageous to them, andthat they had thereby fallen into calamities. This man was indeed admirable for hisvirtue, and powerful in making men givecredit to what he delivered, not only duringthe time of his natural life, but even there isstill no one of the Hebrews, who does not acteven now, as if Moses were present, andready to punish him if he should do any thingthat is indecent; nay, there is no one but isobedient to what laws he ordained, althoughthey might be concealed in their transgres­sions. There are also many other demonstra­tions that his power was more than human;for some have even come from the parts be­yond Euphrates, a journey of four months,through many dangers, and at great expenses, * This great famine, as Dr. Hudson observe?, in thedays of Claudius, is again mentioned in the Antiquities,XX. 4, and Acts xi. 28, as also by Tacitus, Phlegon, Dio,and Africanus. . in honour of our temple; and yet when theyhad offered their oblations could not partakeof their own sacrifices, because Moses hadforbidden it, by somewhat in the law that didnot permit them, or somewhat that had be­fallen them, which our ancient customs madeinconsistent therewith; so that some of thesedid not sacrifice at all, and others left theirsacrifices in an imperfect condition: nay,many were not able even at first so much asto enter into the temple, but went their waysin this state, as preferring a submission to thelaws of Moses before the fulfilling of their owninclinations, even when they had no fear uponthem that any body could convict them, butonly out of a reverence to their own con­science; so that this legislation, which ap­peared to be divine, made this man to beesteemed as one superior to his own humannature. Nay, farther, a little before the be­ginning of this war, when Claudius was em­peror of the Romans, and Ismael was ourhigh-priest; and when so great a famine*was come upon us, that one tenth deal ofwheat was sold for four drachmae, and whenno less than seventy corifof flour was broughtinto the temple, at the feast of unleavenedbread, not one of the priests was so hardy asto eat one crumb of it, even while so great adistress was on the land, and this out of adread of the law, and of that wrath whichGod retains against acts of wickedness, evenwhen no one can accuse the actors; whencewe are not to wonder at what was then done,while this very day the writings left by Moseshave so great force, that even those who hateus, confess that he who established this set­tlement was God, and that it was by themeans of Moses, and of his virtue. t These cori are thirty-one Sicilian, or forty-one Athe­nian medimni.