OCR Output SEGESTA. SEGESTA. 949 a against Syracuse, and the contest between:eti tod Selinus in utmost forgotten in ther* iropurtant struggle between those two great'in. Id the summer of B. C- 415 an Athenian1. proceeding along the coast, took the small townHrrcara, on the coast, near Segesta, and made itr to the Segestans. (Thnc vi. 62; Diod. ziii. The Litter people are Again mentioned on more11 rne occasion as sending auxiliary troops to■! their Athenian allies (Thuc, vii. 57; Diod. ziii.Ir.il do other notice occurs of them. The finaln i< the Athenians left the Segestans again ex-■1 to the attacks of their neighbours the Scli-uzq; and feeling themselves unable to copei item, they again had recourse to the Cartha-us, who determined to espouse their cause, andihrtn. in the first instance, an auxiliary forceD00 Africans and 800 Campanian mercenaries,b tofficed to ensure them the victory over theirl B.C 410. (Diod. xiii. 43, 44.) But thisUlowed the next year by a vast armamentt Usmubal, who landed at Lilybaeum, and,niuig direct to Selinns, took and destroyed the (Ik. 54—58.) This was followed by the->uo of Himera; and the Carthaginian powerbecame 6rmly established in the western por-of Sicily. Selesta, surrounded on all sides byformidable neighbour, naturally fell graduallylit [aaition of a dependent ally of Carthage,u cne of the few cities that remained faithfuli» alliance even in B.C. 397, when the greatlukn of Dionysius to the YY. of Sicily and thei Motya seemed altogether to shake the powerL-tiisge. Dionysius in consequence laid siegetesta, and pressed it with the utmost vigour,il.j after the full of Motya; but the city wasU' rfefr his efforts, until the landing of Hi-aith a formidable Carthaginian force changedH«t of affairs, and compelled Dionysius toti? tiege. (Id. xiv. 48. 53—55.) From this>r Leu Utile more of Segesta till the time of»'.f\ under whom it suffered a great calamity. having landed in the W. of Sicily on hisi from Africa (b. c. 307), and being receivedbe city as a friend and ally, suddenly turnedLbt inhabitants on a pretence of disaffection,it the whole of the citizens (said to amountDOO in number) to the sword, plundered theirk, and sold the women and children intoHe then changed the name of the city toand assigned it as a residence to the • and deserters that had gathered around(Diod. xx. 71.) t -.-abletlial Segesta never altogether recovered • » but it soon resumed its original name, and•,<fari in history as an independent city,t is mentioned in b. c. 276, as one of the citiesfthti Pyrrhus during his expedition into theSicily. (Diod. xxii. la Exc. II. p. 498.) It, "«oo after fell again under the power of theCicians; and it was probably on this occasion» city was taken and plundered by them, asI v> by Cicero ( Verr. iv.33); a circumstance ofve have no other account. It continued subject - .east dependent on that people, till the FirstWar. Ia the first year of that war (b. c. 264)•-irked by the consul Appius Claudius, but - •occtm (Diod. xziii. 3. p. 501); but shortly^ inhabitants put the Carthaginian garrison•word, and declared for the alliance of Rome.f. 502; Zonar Tiil 9.) Tbey were in con- sequence besieged by a Carthaginian force, and wereat one time reduced to great straits, but were relievedby the arrival of Duilius, after his naval victory,B. c. 260. (Pol. i. 24.) Segesta seems to have beenone of the first of the Sicilian cities to set the ezam-ple of defection from Carthage; on which account,as well as of their pretended Trojan descent, the in­habitants were treated with great distinction by theRomans. They were exempted from all public bur­dens, and even as late as the time of Cicero continuedto be " sine foedere immnnes ac liberi." (Cic. Kerr. iii. 6, iv. 33.) After the destruction of Carthage,Scipio Africanus restored to the Segestans a stutueof Diana which had been carried off by the Cartha­ginians, probably when they obtained possession ofthe city after the departure of Pyrrhus. (Cic Verr. iv. 33.) During the Servile War also, in B.C. 102,the territory of Segesta is again mentioned as one ofthose where the insurrection broke out with thegreatest fury. (Diod. xxxvi. 5, Exc. Phot.p. 534.)But with the exception of these incidental notices wehear little of it under the Roman government. Itseems to have been still a considerable town in thetime of Cicero, and had a port or emporium of itsown on the bay about 6 miles distant (to tw Ary«r-riwv ifiw6pu>y, Strab. vi. pp. 266, 272; Itr/Knaydrilin6piov, Ptol. iii. 4. § 4). This emporium seemsto have grown up in the days of Strabo to be a moreimportant place than Segesta itself: but the con­tinued existence of the ancient city is attested bothby Pliny and Ptolemy; and we learn from the formerthat the inhabitants, though they no longer retainedtheir position of nominal independence, enjoyed theprivileges of the Latin citizenship. (Strab. I.e.;Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 15.) It seems,however, to have been a decaying place, and no traceof it is subsequently found in history. The site issaid to have been finally abandoned, in consequenceof the ravages of the Saracens, in A. D. 900 (Amico,ad Fazell. Sic. vii. 4. not- 9), and is now wholly de­solate ; but the town of Casteil 'a Mare, about 6 milesdistant, occupies nearly, if not precisely, the same siteas the ancient emporium or port of Segesta. The site of the ancient city is still marked by theruins of a temple and theatre, the former of which isone of the most perfect and striking ruins in Sicily.It stands on a hill, about 3 miles NW. of Calatqfimi,in a very barren and open situation. It is of theDoric order, with six columns in front and fourteenon each side (all, except one, quite perfect, and thatonly damaged), forming a parallelogram of 162 feetby 66. From the columns not being fluted, theyhave rather a heavy aspect; but if due allowance bemade for this circumstance, the architecture is onthe whole a light order of Doric; and it is probable,therefore, that the temple is not of very early date.From the absence of fluting, as well as other detailsof the architecture, there can be no doubt that itnever was finished,—the work probably being inter­rupted by some political catastrophe. This templeappears to have stood, as was often the case, outsidethe walls of the city, at a short distance to the YV.of it The latter occupied the summit of a lull ofsmall extent, at the foot of which flows, in a deepvalley or ravine, the torrent now called the FirnneGaggtra, a confluent of the Fiume di S. Bartolemeo,which flows about 5 miles E. of Segesta. The latteris probably the ancient Crimisns [CiUMisusl, cele­brated for the great victory of Titnoleon over theCarthaginians, while the Gaggera must probably bethe stream called by Diodarus (xx. 71) theScarnander 3 r 3