OCR Output SAMBULOS. SAMINTHUS. 889 &LV8UL0& [Baqistahus Mors.] sAilBUS (Sopfos), a small river which formsu the tributaries of the Jumna. It is men-.iwi bj Arrian in his list of Indian rivers (Ind..4> [V.] .MME or SAMOS (2d>), 2o>os ; Eth. *apa7os:k-iw), the roost ancient city in Cephallenia, which itw the Dame of this island in the poems of Homer.Oii-hallesia. j The city stood upon the easternjut. uxl npos the channel separating Cephalleniai fuaca, (Strab. x. p. 455.) Along with theiwr Ccpoalknian towns it joined the Athenian.Mtt 'n B.C. ■431. (Thuc ii. 30.) When M.L-niu patsed over into Cephallenia in it. c. 189,i-.w at fint submitted to the Romans along withr other towni of the island; but it shortly after-irit revolted, and was not taken till after a siege bur months, when all the inhabitants were soldi ilana. (Lit. xxxviii. 28, 29.) It appears from7 j narrative that Same had two citadels, oftrh tie smaller was called Cyatis; the larger be>tfuttt simply as the major arx. In the time ofn'tK there existed only a few vestiges of the ancientJ. (Strab. Lc.; comp. I'lin. iv. 12. s. 19.)Same hu given its name to the modern town of=*\ and to the bay upon which it stands. Itsn'.wn uA the remains of the ancient city are»mWd by Leake. It stood at the northern ex-nily of a wide valley, which borders the bay,I vtnch is overlooked to the southward by thet •ammit of Mount Aenus ('Elato). It wasi^i upon the north-western face of a bicipitouscat, wbirh rises from the shore at the northern1J the modern town. u The ruins and vestiges of'ior*ct walls show that the city ocenpied the twoariu. an intermediate hollow, and their slope asu tlit tea." On tbe northern of the two summits it* rain* of an acropolis, which seems lo haver the major arx mentioned by Livy. On theti*ra height there is a monastery, on one side oficb are some remains of a Hellenic wall, and>-t mis to be the site of the Cyatis, or smallerThere am considerable remains of the town2a The whole circuit of the city was barely two»- (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iiL p. 55.) AMIA. [Samicum.] iAHlCCM (Sojua-oV; Eth. Za/ioMOi), a townrnpJijba in Elis, situated near the coast about^viy between the mouths of the Alpheius and KrU, and a little north of the Anigrus. Itd Bpoa a projecting spur of a lofty mountain,ib sere approaches so near the coast as to leave » iurrow pass. From its situation commanding t*A h is probable that a city existed herel L* earliest times; and it was therefore identi- *rth tbe Arene of Homer {II ii. 591, xi.I J. wbicb tbe poet places near the mouth of the'.«,» rirer supposed to be the same as the■eras [AaxSE.] According to Strabo the city auftoatty called Samos (XaVor), from its being■ted open a hill, because this word formerlyii<d "heights." Samicum was at first the name of the fortress, and the same name was alsogiven to the surrounding plain. (Strab. viii. pp. 346,347; Paus. v. 5. § 3.) Pausanias speaks (v. 6. §1) of a city Sam: \ (5au*u), which he apparentlydistinguishes from Samicum; but Samicum is theonly place mentiuned in history. [See some remarksunder Macistus.] Samicum was occupied by theA>-t"lian Polysperchon against the Arcadians, andwas taken by Philip, n. c. 219. (Paus. v. 6. § 1;Polyb. iv. 77, 80.) The ruins of Samicum arefound at Khaidffa (written Xoiowwa), which is onlythe name of the guarded pass. The ruined wallsare 6 feet thick, and about 1' mile in circumfe­rence. They are of the second order of Hellenicmasonry, and are evidently of great antiquity. Thetowers towards the sea belong to a later age. Near Samicum upon the const was a celebratedtemple of the Saniian Poseidon, surrounded by agrove of wild olives. It was the centre of thereligious worship of the six Triphylian cities, all ofwhom contributed to its support. It was under thesuperintendence of Macistus, the most powerful ofthe Triphylian cities. (Strab. viii. pp. 344, 346,347.) in a corrupt passage of Strabo(p. 344) thistemple is said to be 100 stadia equidistant fromLepreum and the Annius (too 'Akc/ov) ; for thelatter name we ought to read Alpheius and notAnigrus, as some editors hsve done. In the neighbourhood of Samicum there werecelebrated medicinal springs, which were said tocure cutaneous diseases. Of the two lagoons whichnow stretch along the coast, the larger, which ex­tends as far as the mouth of tbe Alpheius, begins atthe northern foot of the hill upon which Samicumstands; the southern extends along the precipitoussiiles of the hill, which were called in antiquity theAchaean rocks. (Strab viii. p. 347.) The riverAnigrus flows into the lstter of these lagoons, andfrom thence flows out into the sea. The lagoon isdeep, being fed with subterraneous sources; insummer it is said lo be very fetid, and the air ex­tremely unwholesome. Strabo relates that thewaters of the lake were fetid, and its fish not eat­able, which be attributes to the Centaurs washingtheir wounds in the Anigrus. Pausanias mentionsthe same circumstances; and both writers describethe efficacy of the water in curing cutaneous diseases.There were two caves, one sacred to the NymphsAnigrides (*AviypiS*s, Paus.; *A»*i7/)td3ej, Strab.),and the other to the Atlantides; the former was Uiemore important, and is alone mentioned by Pau­sanias. It was in the cave of the Anigrides thatthe persons who were going to use the waters firstoffered up their prayers to the Nymphs. (Strab. viii.p. 346, seq.; Pans. v. 5. §§ 7—11.) These twocaves are still visible in the rocks; but they are nowaccessible only by a boat, as they are immediatelyabove the surface of the lake. General Gordon, whovisited these caverns in 1835, found in one of themwater distilling from the rock, and bringing with ita pure yellow sulphur. (Leake, J/oreo, vol. i. p. 54,seq., PtUrjKmnesiaca, p. 108; Boblaye, Jiechtrckesf<fc., p. 133, seq.; Curtius, Felopottnaos, vol. ii.p. 78, seq.) SAMINTHUS (idfuveos), a town in the Argent,on the western edge of the Arrive plain, which wastaken by Agis, when he marched from Phliua intothe territory of Argos in b. c. 418. (Time v. 58.)Its position is uncertain. Leake, who supp<*e*Agis to have marched over Mt, Lyrceium and theadjoining hills, places it at Kutzopddhi (Morta9