OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 59 Rome, reduced the war-marine and the army of elephantsagreeably to the treaty of 565, and was in the fair way of IS9.completing" the military ruin of the country. In Egypt notonly was the restoration of Philometor accomplished, but—partly in order to put an end to the quarrel between thebrothers, partly in order to weaken the still considerablepower of Egypt—Cyrene was separated from that kingdomand assigned as an appanage to Euergetes. "The Romansmake kings of those whom they choose," a Jew wrote not longafter this, " and whom they do not choose they drive awayfrom their country and their people." But this was thelast occasion for long, on which the Boman senate came for­ward in the affairs of the East with that ability and energywhich it had uniformly displayed in the complications withPhilip, Antiochus, and Perseus. Though the internal declineof the government was late in affecting the treatment offoreign affairs, yet it did affect them at length. Thegovernment became unsteady and vacillating; they allowedthe reins which they had just grasped to slacken and almostto slip from their hands. The guardian-regent of Syriawas murdered at Laodicea; the rejected pretender Deme­trius escaped from Rome and, setting aside the youthfulprince, seized the government of his ancestral kingdomunder the bold pretext that the Roman senate had fullyempowered him to do so (592). Soon afterwards war 162.broke out between the kings of Egypt and Cyrene respect­ing the possession of the island of Cyprus, which the senatehad assigned first to the elder, then to the younger; andin opposition to the most recent Roman decision it finallyremained with Egypt. Thus the decrees of the Romangovernment, in the plenitude of its power and duringthe most profound inward and outward peace at home,were derided by the impotent kings of the East; its namewas abused, its ward and its commissioner were mur­dered. Seventy years before, when the Illyrians had in asimilar way laid hands on Eoman deputies, the senate ofthat day had erected a monument to the murdered inthe market-place, and had with an army and fleet calledthe murderers to account. The senate of this period like­wise ordered a monument to be raised to Gnaeus Octavius,as ancestral custom prescribed; but instead of embarkingtroops for Syria they recognized Demetrius as king ofthe land. They were forsooth now so powerful, that it