OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUSi 213 and follow him to the city of Tiberias. I also myself went onboard one of those ships, with my friends, and the seven arme 'men already mentioned, and sailed for Tiberias. 33. But now, when the people of Tiberias perceived that therewere no forces come from the king, and yet saw the whole lakefull of ships, they were in fear what would become of their city,and were greatly terrified, as supposing that the ships were fullof men on board ; so then they changed their minds, and threwdown their weapons, and met me with their wives and children,and made acclamations to me with great commendations ; torthey imagined that I did not know their former inclinations [tohave been against me] ; so they persuaded me to spare the city.But when I was come near enough, I gave order to the mastersof the ships to cast anchor a good way off the land, that the peo­ple of Tiberias might not perceive that the ships had no men onboard ; but I went nearer to the people in one of the ships, andrebuked them for their folly, and that they were so fickle as,without any just occasion in the world, to revolt from their fide­lity to me. However, I assured them, that I would entirelyforgive them for the time to come, if they would send ten ofthe ringleaders of the multitude to me ; and when they com­plied readily with this proposal, and sent me the men foremen-tioned, I put them on board a ship, and sent them away to Ta-richeae, and ordered them to be kept in'prison. 34. And by this stratagem it was, that I gradually got all thesenate of Tiberias into my power, and sent them to the cityforementioned, with many of the principal men among the po­pulous, and those not fewer in number than the other. But,when the multitude saw into what great miseries they hadbrought themselves, they desired me to punish the author ofthis sedition : his name was Clitus, a young man, bold and rashin his undertakings. Now, since I thought it not agreeable topiety to put one of my own people to death, and yet found icnecessary to punish him, I ordered Levi, one of my own guards,to go to him, and cut off one of ClitUs's hands ; but as he thatwas ordered to do this, was afraid to go out of the ship alone,among so great a multitude, I was not willing that the timo-rousness of the soldier should appear to the people of Tiberias.So I called to Clitus himself, and said to him, " Since thou de-'« sefvest to lose both thine hands for thy ingratitude to me, be" thou thine own executioner, lest, if thou refusest so to be," thou undergo a worse punishment." And, when he earnestly begged plainly ships; so that we need not wonder at our Evangelists, who still call themshipi; nor ought we to render them boats, ai some do. Their number was iaall 130, as we learn from our author elsewhere, Of the War, B. II. ch. xxi. sect. 8.