OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 13 by your escaping with impunity, be annulled for ever,I expect that even you yourself, if you have any ofour blood in you, will not refuse to restore by yourpunishment that military discipline which has beensubverted by your fault. Go, lictor: bind him to thestake.' Shocked to the last degree at such a cruel or­der, each looking on the axe as if drawn against him­self, all were quiet, through fear, rather than disci­pline. They stood therefore for some time motionlessand silent; but when the blood spouted from his se­vered neck, then their minds emerging, as it were,from the stupefaction in which they had been plunged,they all at once united their voices in free expressionsof compassion, refraining not either from lamentationsor execrations; and covering the body of the youthwith the spoils, they burned it on a pile, erected with­out the rampart, with every honor which the warmzeal of the soldiers could bestow on a funeral. Fromthence ' Manlian orders' were not only then consideredwith horror, but have been transmitted as a model ofausterity to future times. The harshness of this pu­nishment however rendered the soldiery more obedientto their commander; while the guards and watches,and the regulation of the several posts, were hence­forth attended to with greater diligence : this severitywas also found useful, when the troops, for the finaldecision, went into the field of battle. 8. A battle between these two nations much re­sembled that of a civil war; for except in point ofcourage, there was a perfect similarity between theLatines and Romans in every particular. The Romansformerly made use of targets; afterwards, when theycame to receive pay, they made shields for themselves,instead of the targets ; and their army, which before wascomposed of phalanxes, like those of the Macedonians,began to be formed in a line of distinct companies. Atlength a farther division was made of these into cen­turies ; each century containing sixty-two soldiers,one centurion, and a standard-bearer. The spearmenformed the first line in ten companies, with small in*