OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 477 About A. D. 1120. Zonarus Annal. torn. i. p. 267.—Jose-pbus, in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, writes thus con­cerning our Lord and God Jesus Christ:—Now there wasabout this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be lawful to call hima man, for he was a doer of wonderful works, a teacher of suchmen as receive the truth with pleasure. He drew over to himmany of the Jews, and many of the Gentiles: he was theChrist. And when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principalmen among us, had condemned him to the cross, those thathad loved him at first did not forsake him, for he appearedto them the third day alive again, as the divine prophets hadsaid these, and ten thousand other wonderful things concern­ing him: and the tribe of Christians, so named from him, arenot extinct at this day. About A. D. 1120. Glyca> Annal p. 234. —Then didPhilo, that wise man, and Josephus, flourish. This last wasstyled The lover of truth, because he commended John, whobaptized our Lord; and because he bore witness that Christ,in like manner, was a wise man, and the doer of great mira­cles ; and that when he was crucified, he appeared the thirdday. About A. D. 1170. Gotfridus Viterbiensis Ghron. p. 866,e Vers, llufini.—Josephus relates that a very great wararose between Aretas, king of the Arabians, and Herod, onaccount of the sin which Herod had committed again John.Moreover, the same Josephus writes thus concerning Christ.—There was at this time Jesus, a wise man, if at least it bolawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works,a teacher of such men as willingly hear truth. He also drewover to him many of the Jews, and many of the Gentiles : hewas Christ. And when Mate, at the accusation of the prin­cipal men of our nation, had decreed that he should be cruci­fied, those that had loved him from the beginning did not for­sake him, for he appeared to them the third day alive again,according to what the divinely-inspired prophets had foretold,that these and innumerable other miracles should come to passabout him. Moreover, both the name and sect of Christians,who were named from him, continue in being unto this day.