OCR Output S62 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. Book XV. that place where he had conquered the Jews when he was drivenout of his government, and Antigonus enjoyed it. This citadelis distant from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. It wasstrong by nature, and fit for such a building. It is a sort of amoderate hill, raised to a farther height by the hand of man, tillit was of the shape of a woman's breast. It is encompassed withcircular towers, and hath a strait ascent up to it, which ascentis composed of steps of polished stones, in number two hundred.Within it are royal and very rich apartments, of a stucturethat provided both for security and for beauty. About thebottom thei'e are habitations of such a structure as are well worthseeing, both on other accounts, and also on account of the waterwhich is brought thitherfrom a great way off, and at vastexpenses,for the place itself is destitute of water. The plain that is aboutthis citadel is full of edifices; not inferior to any city in large­ness, and having the hill above it in the nature of a castle. 5. And now, when all Herod's designs had succeeded accord*ing to his hopes, he had not the least suspicion that any troublescould arise in his kingdom, because he kept his people obedient,as well by the fear they stood in of him, for he was implacablein the infliction of his punishments, as by the provident care hehad showed towards them, after the most magnanimous manner,when they were under their distresses: But still he took care tohave external security for his government as a fortress against hissubjects; for the orations he made to the cities were very fine,and full of kindness, and he cultivated a seasonable good under­standing with their governors, and bestowed presents on everyone of them, inducing them thereby to be more friendly to him,and using his magnificent disposition, so as his kingdom might bethe better secured to him, and this till all his affairs were everyway more and more augmented. But then, this magnificenttemper of his, and that submissive behaviour and liberality whichhe exercised towards Caesar, and the most powerful men of Rome,obliged him to transgress the customs of his nation, and to setaside many of their laws, and by building cities after an extrava­gant manner, and erecting temples; * not in Judea indeed, for that * One may here take notice, that how tyrannical and extravagant soever Herodwas in himself, and in his Grecian cities, as to those plays, and shows, and templestor idolatry, mentioned above, ch. viii. sect. 1. and here also, yet durst even he intro­duce very few of them into the cities of ihe Jews, who, as Josephus here notes, wouldnot even then have borne them, so zealous were they still for many of the la\vs of Moses,even under so tyrannical a government as this wasof Herod the Great; which tyrannicalgovernment puts me naturally in mind of Dean Prideaux's honest reflection upon thelike ambition, after such tyrannical- power in Pompey and Casar; " One of these, [says"he, at the year GO,] could notEear an equal, nor the other a superior; and through« this ambitious humour and thirxt after more power in these two men, the