OCR Output 302 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. 87. of thePiraeeus, orders to them to vanquish the enemy with the utmostspeed. As early as 667 his son Ariarathes had startedfrom Macedonia to combat Sulla in Greece proper; onlythe sudden death, which overtook the prince on the marchat the Tisaean promontory in Thessaly, had at that time ledto the abandonment of the expedition. His successor86. Taxiles now appeared (668), driving before him the Romancorps stationed in Thessaly, with an army of, it is said,100,000 infantry and 10,000 cavalry at Thermopylae Dro-Evacuation michaates joined him. Archelaus also — compelled, appa­rently, not so much by Sulla's arms as by his master's orders—evacuated the Piraeus first partially and then entirely, andjoined the Pontic main army in Boeotia. Sulla, after havinggiven orders that the Piraeeus with all its greatly admiredfortifications should be destroyed, followed the Pontic army,in the hope of being able to fight a pitched battle before thearrival of Flaccus. In vain Archelaus advised that theyshould avoid such a battle, but should keep the sea and thecoast occupied and the enemy in suspense. Now, just asformerly under Darius and Antiochus, the masses of theOrientals, like animals terrified in the midst of a fire, flungthemselves hastily and blindly into battle; and did so onthis occasion more foolishly than ever, since the Asiaticsmight perhaps have had to wait but a few months in orderto be the spectators of a battle between Sulla and Flaccus. In the plain of the Cephissus not far from Chaeronea, inMarch 668, the armies niet. Even including the divisiondriven back from Thessaly, which had succeeded in accom­plishing its junction with the Roman main army, and includ­ing the Greek contingents, the Roman army found itselfopposed to a foe three times as strong and particularly to acavalry far superior and from the nature of the field ofbattle very dangerous, against which Sulla found it neces­sary to protect his flanks by digging trenches, while in fronthe caused a chain of palisades to be introduced between hisfirst and second lines for protection against the enemy'swar-chariots. When the war-chariots rolled on to open thebattle, the first line of the Romans withdrew behind thisrow of stakes: the chariots, rebounding from it and scaredby the Roman slingers and archers, threw themselves on theirown line and carried confusion both into the Macedonianphalanx and into the corps of the Italian refugees. Arche­laus brought up in haste his cavalry from both flanks and Battle ofQueronea.86. '