OCR Output 346 ROMAN EMPIRE. phian bad been fierce and obstinate; his conversion wastardy and reluctant; his new faith was fortified by ne­cessity and interest; he served, he fought, perhaps hebelieved; and the sins of the time of ignorance were ex­piated by the recent merits of the family of Ommiyah.Moawiyah, the son of Abu Sophian, and of the cruelHenda, was dignified in his early youth with the titleor office of secretary of the prophet; the judgment ofOmar intrusted him with the government of Syria; andhe administered that important province above fortyyears, either in a subordinate or supreme rank. With­out renouncing the fame of valour and liberality, he af­fected the reputation of humanity and moderation; agrateful people was attached to their benefactor; and thevictorious Moslems were enriched with the spoils ofCyprus and Rhodes. The sacred duty of pursuing theassassins of Othman was the engine and pretence of hisambition. The bloody shirt of the martyr was exposedin the mosch of Damascus: the emir deplored the fateof his injured kinsman; and sixty thousand Syrians wereengaged in his service by an oath of fidelity and revenge.Amrou,the conqueror of Egypt, himself and army, was thefirst who saluted the new monarch, and divulged the dan­gerous secret, that the Arabian caliphs might be createdelsewhere than in the city of the prophet/ The policyof Moawiyah eluded the valour of his rival; and, afterthe death of Ali, he negotiated the abdication of his sonHassan, whose mind was either above or below the go­vernment of the world, and who retired without a sighfrom the palace of Cufa to an humble cell near the tombof his grandfather. The aspiring wishes of the caliphwere finally crowned by the important change of anelective to an hereditary kingdom. Some murmurs offreedom or fanaticism attested the reluctance of theArabs, and four citizens of Medina refused the oath offidelity; but the designs of Moawiyah were conducted 'I borrow, on this occasion, the strong sense and expression of Tacitns. i Hi i1. *.) Evulgato imperil arcauo posse imperatorom alibi quam Horn.' fieri.