OCR Output U2 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. minded them of all that had passed: how theEgyptians were destroyed when they at­tempted to detain them, contrary to the com­mand of God; and after what manner the verysame river was to the others bloody, and notfit for drinking, but was sweet and potableto them; and how they went a new roadthrough the sea, which fled a long way fromthem: by which means they were themselvespreserved, but saw their enemies destroyed;and that when they were in want of weapons,God gave them plenty of them. Thus he re­counted all the particular instances, whenthey were in appearance, just going to be de­stroyed, but God had saved them in a sur­prising manner: that he had still the samepower, and that they ought not even now todespair of his providence over them, and ac­cordingly he exhorted them to continue quiet,and to consider that help would not come toolate, though perhaps not immediately, if itwere present with them before they sufferedany great misfortune. "You ought," said he,"to reason thus, that God delays to assistyou, not because he has no regard to you, butbecause he will first try your fortitude, andthe pleasure you take in your freedom; thathe may learn whether you have souls greatenough to bear want of food, and scarcity ofwater on its account; or whether you reallylove to be slaves, as cattle are slaves to suchas own them, and feed them liberally, butonly in order to make them more useful intheir service. As for myself, I shall not be somuch concerned for my own preservation,for if I die unjustly, I shall not reckon it anyaffliction; but I am concerned for you, lestby casting stones at me, you should be thoughtto condemn God himself." By this means looses pacified the people,and restrained them from stoning him, andbrought them to repent of what they weregoing to do. And because he thought thenecessity they were under made their passionless unjustifiable, he thought it needful to ap­ply to God by prayer and supplication; andgoing up to an eminece, he requested somesuccour for the people, and some way of de­liverance from the want they were in; becausein God, and in him alone, was their hope of salvation. He also desired that he would for­give what necessity had forced the people todo: since such was the nature of mankind,hard to please, and very complaining underadversities. Accordingly God promised hewould take care of them, and afford the suc­cour they were desirous of. Now when Mo­ses had heard this, he came down to the mul­titude; and as soon as they saw him joyful atthe promises he had received from God, theychanged their sad countenances into gladness.So he placed himself in the midst of them,and "told them he came to bring them fromGod a deliverance out of their present dis­tress. Accordingly a little time after came avast number of quails, (which birds are moreplentiful in this Arabian Gulf than any whereelse) flying over the'sea, and hovered overthem, till wearied with their laborious flight,and indeed, as usual, flying very near to theearth, they fell down among the Hebrews,who caught them, and satisfied their hungerwith them, supposing this was the methodwhereby God meant to supply them with food.Hereupon, Moses returned thanks to God foraffording them assistance so suddenly, andsooner than he had promised. But soon after this first supply of food, theyreceived a second; for, as Moses was liftingup his hands in prayer, a. dew fell down, andMoses, when he found it adhere to his hands,supposed this was also come for food fromGod; he tasted it, and perceiving that thepeople knew not what it was, but thought itsnowed, and that it was what usually fell atthat time of the year, he informed them, thatthis dew did not fall from heaven after themanner they imagined, but came for theirpreservation and sustenance; so he gave themsome of it, that they might be satisfied aboutwhat he had told them. They also imitatedtheir conductor, and were pleased with thefood, for it was like honey in sweetness, andin substance like to bdellium, one of the sweetspices, but in bigness equal to coriander seed.The people were now very earnest in gather­ing it; but they were enjoined to gather itequally,* the measure of a homer for everyone every day, because this food should notcome in too small quantity, lest the weaker * It seems to me from what Moses, Exod. xri. 18, St.Paul, 2 Cor. viii. 15, and Joaephus here says, comparedtogether, that the quantity of manna'that fell daily, and did not putrefy was just so much as come to a homer a piecethrough the whole host of Israel, and no more.