OCR Output no THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR; B.VL parting decorums where their several attachments claim­ed it; some to their friends, some to their relations,some to their own sons. The whole company movedalong with a medley of hope and lamentation; with hope,that success would attend their course; with lamentation,lest they might never meet again. The lad recollecti­on occurred — to how great a distance from their nativesoil they were going to be sent! And now that the hourof departure was come, and when this moment they weregoing to be dismissed into scenes of danger, the impressi­ons of terror were felt with much keener fense than whenthe expedition was only decreed. However, at the sight.of their present strength, of the numerous expedients ofa prosperous enterprise which their eyes beheld, theirspirits were again elated. . >< As for the strangers and bulk of the crowd, they at­tended merely for the pleasure of gazing at the meansintended to accomplish a great and stupendous design.For never did any one State of Greece, before this time,equip by its own strength such a powerful armament.It was the finest and most glorious fleer, that to this daythe world had seen. It is true, in number of ships andheavy-armed on-board, that which sailed against Epi-daurus under command of Pericles, and that also againstPottdæa under Agnon, where by no means inferior.For those carried four thousand heavy-armed soldiers, allnative Athenians, with three hundred horsemen: Thenumber of their triremes was a hundred; fifty more werefurnished by the Lesbians and Chians, besides a largenumber, of confederates who attended those expeditions.But then they were fitted for a voyage in comparisontrifling, and in a flight and penurious manner. On the contrary, the present equipment was calcula­ted for a length of time, and completely fitted out forboth services, as occasion might demand, either of thesea or of the land. The shipping, at the great expenceof the captains of the several triremes and of the State,was quite elaborate. The pay assigned by the public to every