OCR Output 164 [A. U. C. 774. TIIE ANNALS ceed to the ardour of affection, and both begin towean themselves from each other; the prince, whenthe power of giving is exhausted; and the minister,when avarice has no more to crave. XXXI. The year, which we are now to open, standsdistinguished by the joint consulship of the father andthe son; Tiberius, for the fourth time, and Drusus,the second. It is true that, two years before, Ger-manicus shared the same honour; but their unionwas not founded in sincerity and mutual esteem.Throughout that year Tiberius beheld his colleaguewith a malignant eye. The tie of affinity betweenthem was not so close as the present. Tiberius hadscarce entered on the office in conjunction with Dru-sus, when, pretending to recruit his health, he remo­ved into Campania, perhaps even then meditatingthat long retreat, which was afterwards his plan oflife; perhaps, intending to give Drusus the honour ofdischarging the consular functions, without the assist­ance of his father. An incident soon occurred, initself of little moment, but by the heat of party it kin­dled to a flame, and afforded to the young consul anopportunity to gain the popular esteem. A complaintwas made to the senate by Domitius Corbulo, for­merly one of the praters, stating that Lucius Sylla, ayouth of illustrious rank, had refused, in a late showof gladiators, to give place to his superior in point ofyears. The grave and elderly were on the side ofCorbulo. They saw the rights of age infringed, andthe example of ancient manners treated with contempt.Mamercus Scaurus and Lucius Arruntius undertookthe defence of Sylla, and with the rest of his relationsformed a party in his favour. A warm debate ensued.The practice of good times was stated, and severaldecrees, enforcing the reverence due to age, werecited as decisi'e authority. Drusus, by a qualifyingspeech, allayed the ferment. Corbulo declared him­self satisfied by the apology made by MamercusScaurus, who was uncle as well as father-in-law toSylla, and, besides, the most eloquent orator of his# time. That business being thus amicably settled, thestate of the public roads was made the subject of de^