OCR Output 104 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI". \ to the law of their country; and they offered the sacrifice whidiwas called the Passover, on the fourteenth day of the samemonth, and feasted seven days, and spared for no cost, but of足fered whole burnt-offerings to God, and performed sacrifices otthanksgiving, because God had led them again to the land ot"their fathers, and to the laws thereto belonging, and had ren足dered the mind of the king of Persia favourable to them. Sothese men offered the largest sacrifices on these accounts, andused great magnificence in the worship of God, and dwelt inJerusalem, and made use of a form of government that wasaristocratical, but mixed with an oligarchy, for the high priestswere at the head of their affairs, until the posterity of the Asa-moneans set up kingly government; for before their captivity,and the dissolution of their polity, they at first had kinglygovernment from Saul and Davidj for five hundred and thirty-two years, six months, and ten days; but before those kings,such rulers governed them as were called Judges and Monarchs.Under this form of government they continued for more thanfive hundred years, after the death of Moses, and of Joshua theircommander. And this is the account I had to give of the Jewswho had been carried into captivity, but were delivered from itin the times of Cyrus and Darius. 9. * But the Samaritans, being evil and enviously disposed tothe Jews, wrought them many mischiefs, by reliance on theirriches, and by their pretence that they were allied to the Per足sians, on account that thence they came; and whatsoever it wasthat they were enjoined to pay the Jews by the king's order outof their tributes, for the sacrifices, they would not pay it. Theyhad also the governors favourable to them and assisting themfor that purpose; nor did they spare to hurt them, either bythemselves, or by others; as far as they were able. So the Jewsdetermined to send an embassage to king Darius, in favour ofthe people of Jerusalem, and in order to accuse the .Samaritans,The ambassadors were Zorobabel, and four others of the rulers:and as soon as the king knew from the ambassadors the accusa足tions and complaints they brought against the Samaritans, hegave them an epistle to be carried to the governors and councilof Samaria. The cpntents of which epistle were these: " King"Darius to Tanganas and Sambabas, the governors of the Sa-"maritans, to Sadraces and Bobelo, and the rest of their fell.ow-"servants that are in Samaria; Zorobabel, Ananias, and Mor-"decai, the ambassadors ofthe Jews, complain of you, that you"obstruct them in the building of the temple, and do not sup- * The history contained in this section is entirely wanting in all our otherboth of Ezra and Esdras.