OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 101 their royal captive after he had submitted to adore themajesty of a barbarian; and the humiliation was poorlyevaded by the casuistical subtilty of the Magi, who in­structed Perozes to direct his attention to the rising sun.The indignant successor of Cyrus forgot his danger andhis gratitude; he renewed the attack with headstrongfury, and lost both his army and his life." The death ofPerozes abandoned Persia to her foreign and domesticenemies; and twelve years of confusion elapsed beforehis son Cabades or Kobad could embrace any designs ofambition or revenge. The unkind parsimony of Anas-tasius was the motive or pretence of a Roman warthe The Per-Huns and Arabs marched under the Persian standard, a.d. 502and the fortifications of Armenia and Mesopotamia were, —50;>-at that time, in a ruinous or imperfect condition. Theemperor returned his thanks to the governor and peopleof Martyropolis, for the prompt surrender of a city whichcould not be successfully defended, and the conflagra­tion of Theodosiopolis might justify the conduct of theirprudent neighbours. Amida sustained a long and des­tructive siege: at the end of three months the loss offifty thousand of the soldiers of Cabades was not balancedby any prospect of success, and it was in vain that theMagi deduced a flattering prediction from the indecencyof the women on the ramparts, who had revealed theirmost secret charms to the eyes of the assailants. Atlength, in a silent night, they ascended the most acces­sible tower, which was guarded only by some monks,oppressed after the duties of a festival, with sleep andwine. Scaling ladders were applied at the dawn of day;the presence of Cabades, his stern command, and his 11 See the fate of Phirouz or Perozes. and its consequence!:, in Procopius, (Persic.lib. 1. e. 3—6.) who may be compared with the fragments of oriental history. (d'Her-belot, Bibliot. Orient. p. 351. and Texeira, History of Persia, translated or abridgedhy Stevens, lib. t. 0.32. p. 132—138.) The chronology is ably ascertained by As-aeman. (Bibliot. Orient. tom. 3. p. 396—427.) .1 x The Persian war, under the reigns of Anastasius and Justin, may be collectedfrom Procopius, (Persic. lib. I■e. 7—9.) Theophanes, (in Chronograph, p. 124—127.) Evagrius, (lib. 3. c. 37.) Marcellinas, (in Chron. p. 47.) anJ Josue Styhtes(apod Asseman. tom. i. p. 272—281.) .....'