OCR Output 234 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. Syria affected to tremble for the safety of their defence­less cities. Yet this diversion had already succeeded inforcing Chosroes to return with loss and precipitation;and if the skill of Belisarius had been seconded by dis­cipline and valour, his success might have satisfied thesanguine wishes of the public, who required at his handsthe conquests of Ctesiphon and the deliverance of the A. D.542. captives of Antioch. At the end of the campaign, hewas recalled to Constantinople by an ungrateful court,but the dangers of the ensuing spring restored his confi­dence and command; and the hero, almost alone, wasdispatched, with the speed of post-horses, to repel, byhis name and presence, the invasion of Syria. He found '. / the Roman generals, among whom was a nephew ofJustinian, imprisoned by their fears in the fortificationsof Hierapolis. But instead of listening to their timidcounsels, Belisarius commanded them to follow him toEuropus, where he had resolved to collect his forces, andto execute whatever God should inspire him to achieveagainst the enemy. His firm attitude on the banks ofthe Euphrates restrained Chosroes from advancing to­wards Palestine; and he received with art and dignity,the ambassadors, or rather spies, of the Persian monarch.The plain between Hierapolis and the river was coveredwith the squadrons of cavalry, six thousand hunters talland robust, who pursued their game without the appre­hension of an enemy. On the opposite bank the am­bassadors descried a thousand Armenian horse, who ap­peared to guard the passage of the Euphrates. The tentof Belisarius was of the coarsest linen, the simple equi­page of a warrior, who disdained the luxury of the east.Around his tent, the nations who marched uuder his'standard were arranged with skilful confusion. TheThracians and Illyrians were posted in the front, theHeruli and Goths in the centre; the prospect was closedby the Moors and Vandals, and their loose array seemedto multiply their numbers. Their dress was light and *