OCR Output ITALIA. 77 ITALIA. around which sweeps the great chain of the Alps,firming a continuum barrier from the shores of theJMiterranean near Massilia to the head of theAdriatic at Trieste (Tcrgeste). From the westernextremity of thU vast mountain chain, where theranges of the Maritime Alps abut immediately onthe s*a-shore, branches off the inferior, but still veryconsiderable, chain of the Apennines, which, afterswelling round the Ligurian gulf, stretches in anunbroken line directly across to the shores of theAdriatic, and then, turning abruptly to the SE., di­vides the whole peninsula throughout its entirelength, until it ends in the promontory of Leuco-pttra, on the Sicilian sea. [Apenninus.] The precise limits of Italy can thus only be doubt­ful on its northern frontier, where the massive rangesof the Alps, though presenting, when viewed on thekrje sale, a vast natural barrier, are in fact in­dented and penetrated by deep and irregular valleys,which render it often difficult to determine thenatural boundary; nor has this been always adopteda. tie political one. Along the coast of Liguria,tetw«n Massilia and Genua, the Maritime Alps senddown successive ranges to the sea, forming greatheadlands, of which the most striking are: that be­tween .Vo/i and Finale, commonly regarded by modernfeo»raphers as the termination of the MaritimeAlp~; and the promontory immediately W. of Mo-tan, which still bears the remains of the TropaeaAujnsti, and the passage of which presents thegreatest natural difficulties to the construction of aroad along this coast. This mountain headlandwould probably be the best point to fix as the naturallimit of Italy on this side, and appears to have beennwimonly regarded in ancient times as such; butwhen Augustus first extended the political limits ofItaly to the foot of the Alps, he found it convenientto carry them somewhat further W., and fixed on therirer Varus as the boundary; thus including Nicaea,which was a coluny of Massilia, and had previouslybeen considered as belonging to Gaul. (Strab. iv.1 p. 178. 184. v. p. 209; Plin. iii. 4. s. 5, 5. s. 6, 7;Mr-la, ii. 4. § 9; Ftol. iii. 1 § I; Lucan, i. 404.)TV.uph this demarcation does not appear to haveUea always followed; for in the Itinerary of Anto-ciira* (p. 296) we again find the Alpis Maritima(roaning the mountain headland above described)tiled as the boundary between Italy and Gaul: itwis generally adopted, and has continued withoutalteration to the present day. The extreme NK. limit of Italy, at the head oft!w Adriatic Gulf, is equally susceptible of variousdeterniiua ion, and here also Augustus certainlytranKTessed the natural limits by including Istriawithin Uie confines of Italy. (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22;Strib. v. p. 209, vii. p. 314.) But here, also, thereasons of political convenience, which first gave risetu tlis extension, have led to its subsequent adoption,a>«i I*tria is still commonly reckoned a part of Italy.Tbe little river Formio, which flows into the Adriatic!*'.««n Triate and Capo & istria, was previouslyestablished as the boundary of Italy on this side:l*t the range of the Julian Alps, which, aftertweepiiig round the broad plain of the Frwul, Bud-Geal v approaches close to the Adriatic, near the sourcesof the Timavus, and presents a continuous mountainbs.Tter from thence to Trieste, would seem to con-itilote the true natural limit. Even between these two extremities, the chain oftl* Alpi does not always form so simple and clearly-nuikd a frontier as might at first be expected. It would not, indeed, be difficult to trace geographicallysuch a line of boundary, by following the water-shedor line of highest ridge, throughout: but the im­perfect knowledge of the Alps possessed by thoancients was scarcely sufficient for such a purpose;and this line was not, in ancient, any more than inmodern tithes, the actual limit of different nation­alities. Thus, the Rhaetians, who in the days ofStrabo and Pliny were not comprised in Italy,inhabited the valleys and lower ridges of the Alpson the S. side of the main chain, down quite to theborders of the plains, as well as the northern decli­vities of the same mountains. Hence, a part of theSouthern Tirol, including the valley of the Adigeabove Trent, and apparently the whole of tho Val-teline, though situated on the southern side of thoAlps, were at that time excluded from Italy: while,at a later period, on the contrary, the two provincesof Rhaetia Prima and Rhaetia Secnnda were bothincorporated with Italy, and the boundary, in con­sequence, carried far to the N. of the central line ofgeographical limit. In like manner the CottianAlps, which formed a separate district, under a tri­butary chieftain, in the days of Augustus, and wereonly incorporated with Italy by Nero, comprised thevalleys on both sides of the main chain; and theprovinces established in the latter periods of thoEmpire under the names of the Alpes Cottiae andAlpes Maritimae, appear to have been constitutedwith equally little reference to this natural boundary.(Walckenaer, Geogr. des Gaules, vol. ii. pp. 21—36,361,395.) While Italy is bounded on the N. by the greatnatural barrier of the Alps, it is to the chain of thoApennines, by which it is traversed in its entirelength, that it mainly owes its peculiar configuration.This great mountain chain may be considered as theback-bone or vertebral column of the Italian pen­insula, which sends down offsets or lateral ridgeson both sides to the sea, while it forms, throughoutits long course, the water-shed or dividing ridge,from which the rivers of the peninsula take theirrise. A detailed description of the Apennines hasalready been given under the article Apknninls:they are here noticed only as far as they are con­nected with the general features of the physicalgeography of Italy. 1. Northern Italy.—The first part of thechain of the Apennines, which extends from thepoint of their junction with the Maritime Alps alongthe N. shore of the Gulf of Genoa, and from thenceacross the whole breadth of Italy to the Adriaticnear Ariminum, constitutes the southern boundaryof a great valley or plain, which extends, withoutinterruption, from the foot of the Apennines to thatof the Alps. This broad expanse of perfectly levelcountry, consisting throughout of alluvial soil, iswatered by the great river Padus, or Po, and itsnumerous tributaries, which bring down the watersfrom the flanks both of the Alps and Apennines,and render this extensive plain one of the mostfertile tracts in Europe. It extends through a spaceof above 200 geog. miles in length, but does notexceed 50 or 60 in breadth, nntil it approaches theAdriatic, where the Alps beyond Vicema trend awayrapidly to the northward, sweeping in a semicircleround the plains of the Friuli (which are a merecontinuation of the great plain of the Po), until theyagain approach the Adriatic near Trieste. At thesame time the Apennines also, as they approachtowards the Adriatic, gradually recede from the