OCR Output 276 NOTES ON THE Page 117. The twelve gods, as they are called.] These twelvedivinities are, Jupiter, Neptune, Vulcan, Vesta, Minerva, Mars,Ceres, Juno, Diana, Mercury, Venus, Apollo. The first triadof these gods is demiurgic; the second, defensive; the third, vi-vific; and the fourth, elevating and harmonic. These divinitiesaccording to their first subsistence, considered as characterized bythe number twelve, form that order of gods which is called ar»-?.vrof, or liberated, by the Chaldæan theologists, but uir;foip«Miof,y«-percelejlial, by the Greeks, because it is immediately situated abovethe mundane gods. But these gods are received from the libe­rated order into the world. Hence, as Sallust observes in his.elegant little work, On the Gods and the World*: "Of thesegods, some are the causes of the world's existence; othersanimate the world; others again harmonize it, thus composedfrom different natures; and others lastly guard and preserve itwhen harmonically arranged." He adds: "The truth of thismay be seen in statues as in ænigmas. For Apollo harmonizes thelyre, Pallas is invested with arms, and Venus is naked; sinceharmony generates beauty, and beauty is not concealed in objectsof sensible inspection. But since these gods primarily possess theworld, it is necessary to consider the other gods as subsisting inthese; as Bacchus in Jupiter, Æsculapius in Apollo, and theGraces in Venus. We may likewise behold the orbs with whichthey are connected; viz. Vesta with earth, Neptune with water,Juno with air, and Vulcan with fire. But the six superipr godswe denominate from general custom ; for we assume Apollo andDiana for the fun and moon; but we attribute the orb of Satur nto Ceres, sether to Pallas; and we assert that heaven is commonto them all." Page 119. Bacchus Ny<~Jii:s.~] So called, because his myste­ries were celebrated by night. Page 119. Venus Vertkornia.~\ Thus denominated, accord­ing to Gyraldus, because (he turns the heart to chastity. Vid.Valer. Maxim, lib. viii. * Can. vi. Page