OCR Output SICILIA. SICILIA. 983 rfulitors, who bought up largo tracts of land,urh ;hev cultivated solely by means of slaves, so■I the free population of the island became inate-dir diminished. The more mountainous portion*it* island were given up to shepherds and herds*t, »U likewise slaves, and accustomed to habits ofp.nt and plunder, iu which they were encouragedthai masters. At the same time the number ofsltiy proprietors, and the extensive export trade■rue of tbe towns, maintained a delusive appear-*rf prosperity. It was not till the outbreak ofI Servile War in B. c. 135 that the full extent ofm nils became apparent, but the frightful statetfcngi then revealed sufficiently shows that theam which bad produced it must have been longrxr. That great outbreak, which commenceda a local insurrection of the slaves of a greatenetor at Enna, named Damophilus, and wasand by a Syrian slave of the name of Ennns,rlly spread throughout the whole island, so that•Uvea are said to have mustered 200,000 armedi With this formidable force they defeated intraioo the armies of several Roman praetors, soI in B.C 134, it was thought necessary to sendissl them the consul Fulvins Elaccus, and it wastill the year B. c. 132 that their strongholds ofirnimium and Enna were taken by the consulRapiiius (Diud. xxxiv. Exc. Phot, Exc. Valet.)I insurrection was now finally quelled, but the • oi Sicily bad undergone a severe shock, andsrttjecent of its affairs was confided to P. Ku-a. together with ten commissioners, who laidn • code of laws and rules for its internal eovern-( which continued to be observed in the days ofn (Cie. Ferr. ii. 16). at the outbreak of the second Servile War, underjus and Athenian, less than thirty years afterkraiinarion of the former one (b. c. 103), andfart that the slave* were again able to maintainmteat against three successive consuls till they1 finally vanquished by M. Aquilius, in b. c. 100,witly proven that the evils in the state of so-'had been bat imperfectly remedied by Rupi- ii can we believe that the condition of thei was in reality altogether so flourishing as itjrteented by Cicero during the interval whichad between this Servile War and the praetorshiperres, B. c 73. But the great natural re­al of Sicily and its important position as theiry of Rome undoubtedly enabled it to recoverrapidity from all its disasters. The elder Catoabed it tbe store-room (cella penaria) of then state, and Cicero observes that in the greatI War (b. c Of)—88) it supplied the Koinan» tint only with food, bat with clothing and also (Cic. Verr. ii. 2). But the praetomhiprrm (a. c. 73—70) inflicted a calamity upon'scarcely inferior to the Servile wars that hadvotiy devastated it. The rhetorical expressions • to most not indeed be always understood!ly; but with every allowance for exaggeration,can no doubt that the evils resulting from suchirmnent as that of Verres were enormous; and »*» jost in such a state as to suffer from themirverery. • < rations of Cicero against Verres convey toarh carious and valuable information as to theiau of Sicily under the Roman republic as wellUV administration and system of government» f£p<nan provinces generally. Sicily at thatarmed but one province, under the government of a praetor or pro-praetor, but it had always twoquaestors, one of whom resided at Syracuse, theother at Lilybaeum. This anomaly (for such it ap­pears to have been) probably arose from the differentparts of the island having been reduced into theform of a province at different periods. The islandcontained in all above sixty towns which enjoyedmunicipal rights: of these, three only, Messana,Tauromcniutn, and Netum, were allied cities (civi-tates foederatae), and thus enjoyed a position of no­minal independence; five were exempt from all fiscalburdens and from the ordinary jurisdiction of theRoman magistrates (civitates immunes et liberae):the rest were in the ordinary position of provincialtowns, but retained theirown magistrates and munici­pal rights, as well as the possession of their respectiveterritories, subject to the payment of a tenth of theirproduce to the Roman state. These tenths, whichwere paid in kind, were habitually fanned out, ac­cording to principles and regulations laid down inthe first instance by Hieron, king of Syracuse, nndwhich therefore continued to be known as the LexHieronica. Eor judicial purposes, the island appearsto have been divided into districts or eonrentus, butthe number of them is not stated; those of Syracuse,Agrigentum, Lilybaeum, and Panormus arc the onlyones mentioned. Sicily t*»k little port in the Civil War betweenCaesar and Poinpey. It was at first held by M.Cato on behalf of the latter, but abandoned by himwhen Pompey himself had quitted Italy, and wasthen occupied by Curio, as pro-praetor, with fourlegions (Caes. B. C. i. 30, 31). Caesar himselfvisited it previous to his African war, and it wasfrom Lilybaeum that he crossed over with his armyinto Africa (Hirt. B. Afr. I.) After the death ofCaesar, it fell into the hands of Sextus Pompeius,whose powerful fleet enabled him to defy all theefforts of Octarian to recover it, and was at lengthsecured to him by the peace of Misenum, B.C. 39,together with Sardinia and Corsica. But Octaviansoon renewed his attempts to dispossess him, andthough he sustained repeated defeats at sea, and losta great part of his fleet by a 6torm, the energy andability of Agrippa enabled him to triumph over allobstacles; and the final defeat of his fleet at Nanlo-chus compelled Pompeius to abandon Sicily, andtake refuge in the east (Appian, B. C. v. 77—122;Won Cass. xlix. 1—17). There seems no doubtthat the island suffered severely from this contest,and from the rapacity or exactions of Sextus Pom­peius; Strabo distinctly ascribes its decayed condi­tion in his time principally to this cause (Strab. vi.pp. 270, 272). Augustus made some attempts torelieve it by sending colonies to a few cities, amongwhich were Taurotneninm, Catana, Syracuse, Ther­mae, and Tyndaris (Strab. vi. p. 272; Phn. iii. 8.s. 14); but the effect thus produced was compara­tively small, and Strabo describes the whole blandas in his time, with few exceptions, in a state ofdecay, many of its ancient cities having altogether dis­appeared, while others were in a declining condition,and the interior was for the most part given up topasturage, and inhabited only by herdsmen (Strab.te.) Augustus appears to have greatly remodelled theinternal administration of Sicily: so that the con­dition of most of the towns had undergone a changebetween the time of Cicero and that "f PHnv.Caesar had indeed proposed to give Latin rights toall the Sicilians, and M. Antoriins even 3 R