OCR Output 1. III. 223 YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. those upon the turrets coming down last of all, and with dif­ficulty got also to the ditch. By this time the reserve of threehundred was come up to oppose them, by the light of torches.The Plataeans by this means, being in the dark, had a clearview of them, and, from their stand upon the brink of theditch, aimed a shower of darts and javelins at those parts oftheir bodies which had no armour. The Plataeans were allobscured, as the glimmering of lights made them less easyto be distinguished ; so that the last of their body got overthe ditch, though not without great difficulty and toil. Forthe water in it was froze, not into ice hard enough to bear,but into a watery congelation, the effect not of the northernbut eastern blasts. The wind blowing hard, had caused somuch snow to fall that night, that the water was swelled to aheight not to be forded without some difficulty. However,the violence of the storm was the greatest furtherance of theirescape. The pass over the ditch being thus completed, the Pla­taeans went forwards in a body, and took the road to Thebes,leaving on their right the temple of Juno, built by Andro-crates. They judged it would never be supposed, that theyhad taken a route which led directly towards their enemies:And they saw at the same time the Peloponnesians pursuingwith torches along the road to Athens, by Cythaeron and theHeads of the Oak*. For six or seven stadiaf they continuedtheir route towards Thebes, but then turning short, theytook the road to the mountains by Erythrae and Hysiae ; andhaving gained the mountains, two hundred and twelve of thenumber completed their escape to Athens. Some of them,indeed, turned back into the city, without once attempting toget over; and one archer was taken prisoner at the outwardditch. The Peloponnesians desisted from the fruitless pursuit,and returned to their posts. But the Plataeans within thecity, ignorant of the real event, and giving ear to the assu-• Drvoscephalac. t Above half a mile.