OCR Output 344 .WARS OF THE JEWS. ." Book Ti a companion of his ; that Theudio, the uncle of Antipater, hadit from him, and delivered it to Pheroras ; for that Antipaterhad charged him to take his father off while he was at Rome, andso free from the suspicion of doing it himself: that Pheroras al­so commited this potion to his wife. Then did the king sendfor her, and bid her bring to him what she had received imme­diately. So she came out of her house as if she would bring itwith' her;; but threw herself down from the top of the house, inorder to prevent any examination and torture from the king.However, it came to pass, as it seems by the providence of God,when: he intended to bring Antipater to punishment, that she fellriot upon her head, but npon other parts of her body, and escap­ed. The king, when she was brought to him, took care of her(for she was at first quite senseless upon her fall), and asked herwhy she had thrown herself down? and gave her his oath, thatif she would speak the real truth, he would excuse her from pu­nishment ; but that if she concealed any thing, he would haveher body torn to pieces by torments, and leave no part of it tobe buried. 6. Upon this the woman paused a little, and then said, " Why" do I spare to speak of these grand secrets, now Pheroras is*' dead, that would only tend to save Antipater, who is all our" destruction. Hear then, O king, and be thou, and God him-" self, who cannot be deceived, witnesses to the truth of what I" am going to say. When thou didst sit weeping by Pheroras" as he was dying, then it was that he called me to him, and said," My dear wife, J have been greatly mistaken as to the disposi-" tion of my brother towards me, and have hated him that is so" affectionate to me, and have contrived to kill him who is in" such disorder for me before I am dead. As for myself, I re-" ceive the recompence of my impiety; but do thou bring what" poison was left with us by Antipater, and which thou keepest" in order to destroy him, and consume it immediately in the" fire in my sight, that I may not be liable to the avenger in the" invisible world. This 1 brought as he bid me, and emptied" the greatest part of it into the fire, but reserved a little of it" for my own use against uncertain futurity, and out of my fear« of thee." 7. When she had said this, she brought the box, which had asmall quantity of this potion in it: but the king let her alone,and transferred the tortures to Antiphilus's mother and brother;who both confessed that Antiphilus brought the box out of E-gypt, and that they had received the potion from a brother ofhis, who was a physician at Alexandria. Then did the ghostsof Alexander and Aristobulus go round all the palace, and b&- came