OCR Output ESSAY ON THE STYLE OF TACITUS.* 1. TaciTus was the inventor of an entirely new sty.fe of historiccomposition; or rather he did not himself designedly form it, but,while he applied himself to writing history -with a different designand spirit from other authors, a new style of expression was thenatural and necessary result. For formerly it had been a prevalentcustom among writers of history, not only to defer writing till theyhad arrived at a mature age, but also to compose with calm and tran足quil feelings; differing in this respect from orators, who were wontto believe that the effect of their speaking would correspond with thedegree of energy and emotion with which they spoke. Hence thecalm, smooth and flowing style of the ancient historians, even ofthose who desired to be distinguished from the others by a sort ofpeculiar dignity. Now Tacitus was the first to depart from the rules of these wri足ters. For it was the natural bont of his genius, not so much to nar足rate the mere facts and events of history, which are often fortuitous,but he labored especially to exhibit the character and spirit of theactors in his scenes. Hence his chief merit, his great power, is seenin the delineation of character : whether he labors by description toplace before us the image of some distinguished man; or so relateshis deeds, that the reader, by his own discernment, forms an opinionof his secret motives and principles of action. But since constant reflection upon virtue or vice has a very greatinfluence over the passions, he came to write in an excited ratherthan a tranquil state of mind, so that he seems to possess more of theardor of youth than of the maturity of age. Now of such a state ofmind, a rapid and energetic style is the natural expression and thenecessary result. In a word, his style is impetuous, always hasten足ing on to the issue, impatient of delay. And this arose not merely * Abridged from the Pi olegomena of L. Doderlein to his edition of Tacitus,tom, ii., Halle, 1847, and translated from the Latin by Mr. Marshall Henshaw,A, M , Tutor in Amherst College. -