OCR Output A. D. 16.] 95 OF TACITUS. tbority, forced their way into the vestibule, deter­mined to make themselves heard and seen by thefamily. The prisoner was then at table, intending tomake an elegant banquet the last pleasure of his life;but a mind in agony could relish nothing. Dis­tracted, terrified, he called on his servants to despatchhim; he laid hold of his slaves, and endeavoured toforce a sword into their hands. The servants in agi­tation, made an effort to escape, and, in the struggle,overturned the light that stood upon the table. Thisto Libo was funereal darkness: he seized the moment,and gave himself two mortal stabs. His groansalarmed the freedmen, who crowded round their mas­ter. The soldiers followed; and seeing him at thepoint of death, had the decency to withdraw. Theprosecution, however, did not die with the unfortu­nate victim. It was resumed in the senate with un-abating,severity. Tiberius made an end of the busi­ness, by declaring that, if the criminal had not donejustice on himself, he intended, notwithstanding themanifest proof of his guilt, to have recommended himto the mercy of the fathers. XXXII. The estate of the deceased was dividedamong the informers. Such of them as were of sena-torian rank were promoted to the prsetorship, withoutthe form of an election. Various motions were madein the senate: Cotfa Messalinus proposed that theimage of Libo should not be carried in the funeralprocessions of his kindred; Cneius Lentulus, that thesurname of Drusus should be no longer assumed bythe Scribonian family. On the motion of PomponiusFlaccus, days of public thanksgiving were voted; andgifts were ordered to be presented to Jupiter, Mars,and Concord, at the desire of Lucius Puppius, AsiniusGallus, Papius Mutilus, and Lucius Apronius.- Itwas further decreed, that the ides of September, theday on which Libo despatched himself, should be ob­served as a festival. Of these resolutions, and theirseveral authors, I have thought proper to record thememory, that adulation may be branded to all poste­rity, and that men may mark how long a servilespirit has been the canker of the commonwealth.