OCR Output SALANIAXA. SALAWA. 879 i.r» a the annexed plan. The Grecian fleet Was Ii«n Dp in the small bar in front of' the towni \»:inim, and the Persian Meet opposite to litemf \m oast of Attica. The battle was witnessedt \mm from the Attic coast, who bad erectedt bmelf a lofty throne on one of the projecting•ivuas of Mt. Aegalcos. Colonel Leake has dis-wti tt ragth all the particulars of the battle,u Mr. Blakealej has controverted many of his**\. Uikming (lie authority of Aeschylus in pre-T'ttr lo ihat of Herodotus. In opposition to Col.avb and all preceding authorities, Mr. IJlakesleyiff*e\ that though the hostile fleets occupiedlit afternoon before the battle ttie position dc-'Bated m the plan annexed, yet that on the morn-C d tbt battle the Greeks were drawn up across |t ■■ n entrance of the strait, between tlie 1fr of SL Barbara and the Attic coast, and that |f fVrnaorwere in the more open sea to the south,u the discussion of this question our limits pre- ia ta uom entering; and we must refer our ■4a» tor particulars to the essays of those writersit the clone of this article. There is, how-i. aoe difficulty which must not be passed oreri Wtre. Hrrwdotus says (viii. 76) that on thei i •"•fore the battle, the Persian ships stationed■t Ceos and Cynosura moved up, and beset thea* Unit as far as Munychia. The only known» those names are the island of Ceos, distantt thiTi 40 geographical miles from Salamis, and;<- montorr of Cyniaura, immediately N. of the'T.ralh'jn. and distant more than 60 geogra-miles from Salamis. Both of those places,rv<e especially Cynosura, seem to be too distant• -r the roorement practicable in tlie timevmL Accordingly many modern scholars applyana Ceos and Cynosura to two promontories,■nithr-rninost and south-easternmost of the islanddaraia, and they are so called in Kieperts maps,there ia do authority whatever for giving thosea to two promontories in the island; and it isra from the narrative, as Mr. Grote has ob-i. that the names of Ceos nod Cynosura mustt to aome points in Attica, not in Salamis.jrute doom not attempt to indicate the positionw places; bat Mr. B lakes ley maintains thataad Cynoaura are respectively the well-known! and cape, and that the real difficulty is occa-i. cut by their distance, but by the erroneous. (.ooceired bjr Herodotus of the operations of«man fleet. (Leake, Demi of Attica, p. 166.aad Appendix 1L On tie Battle of Salamis;lary, £aramu on Herodotus, viii. 76, vol. ii.K aao.; Grate, BisL of Greece, vol. t. p. 171, : v OF SALAMIS. _AXIA"NA* » town of the Catlaici Rracariikwcaa flttaa. AnL p. 427.) Variously iden-n»h C*la A"o*Wt J^'fftnenta. and Portela de m [T. H I).]APIA (SaAorwia: Eth. XaXar7yos ; S ila pinna:4 of the moat considerable cities of Apulia,j on the coaat «* the Adriatic, but separated from the open sea by an intervening Isgune, or salt­water lake, which was known in ancient times as theSalapina PaLUI (Lncan, v. 377: Vib. Seq. p. 26),and is still called the I ago di Salpi. This lagune haanow only an artificial outlet to the sea through thehank of sand which separates them; hut it is pro­bable that in ancient times its communications wensmore free, as Salapia was certainly a considerablesea-port and in Strabo'i time served as the portboth of Arpi and Canusium (Strab. vi. p. 284). Atan earlier period it was an independent city, andapjiarently a place of considerable importance. Tra­dition ascribed its foundation, as well as that of theneighbouring cities of Canusium and Arpi, to Dio-medes (Vitruv. i. 4. § 12); or, according to others,to a Khodian colony under LI pi as (Id. ib.; Strab. xiv.p. 654).* There is no trace (4' its having received aGreek colony in historical times, though, in commonwith many other cities of the Daunian Apulians, itseems to have imbibed n large amount of Hellenicinfluence. This was probably derived from theTarentines, and did not date from a very earlyperiod. The name of Salapia is not mentioned in historytill the Second Tunic War. in which it bears a con­siderable part. It was evidently one of the cities ofApulia which revolted to Hannibal after the battleof Cannae (Liv. xxii. 61); and a few years afterwe find it still in his possession. It was apparentlya place of strength, on which account he collectedthere great magazines of corn, and established hiswinter quarters there in B.C. 214. (Id xxiv. 20.)It remained in his hands after the fall of Arpi in thefollowing year (Id. xxiv. 47); but in ii. c. 210 itwus betrayed into the power of Marcellus by Blasius,one of its citizens, who had been for some time theleader of the Koman party in the place, and theNuiuidian (puritan was put tit the sword. (Id. xxvi.88; AppiaD, Annib. 45—47.) Its loss seems to havebeen a great blow to the power of Hannibal in thispart of Italy; and after the death of Marcellus, n.c.208, he made an attempt to recover possession of itby stratagem ; but the fraud was discovered,and theCarthaginian troops were repulsed with loam. (Liv.xxvii. 1, 28; Appian, A nnib. 51.) No subsequentmention ot it is found till the Social War, in thosecond year of which, when the tide of fortune wasbeginning to turn in favour of Koine, it was takenby the Roman praetor C. Cosconius, and burnt tothe ground (Appian, U. C. i. 51). After Una timeit appears to have fallen into a state of decay, andsuffered severely from malaria in consequence of theexhalations of the neighbouring lagune. Vitrnviustells us, that at length the inhabitants applied toM. Hostilius, who caused them to remove to a morehealthy situation, about 4 miles from the former site,and nearer the sea, while he at the same time o|*nedfresh communications between the lagune and the sea(Vitruv. i. 4. § 12). We have no clue to the timeat which this change took place, but it could hardlyhave Wen till after the town had fallen into a de­clining condition. Cicero, indeed, alludes to Salapiaas in his day notorious for its pestilential climate{de Leg. Agr. ii. 27); hut this may be understoodas relating to its territory rather than the actnaltown. Vitruvius is the only author who notices thechange of site; but if his account can be depended * Lycophron, on the other hand, seems to assignit a Trojan origin; though the passage, as usual, issomewhat obscure. (Lycoplir. Alex. 1129.)