OCR Output chap. xlit/J of the soman empire. 323 years, that the decrees of the senate obtained the fotcoand validity of laws. In the times of freedom, the re­solves of the people had often been dictated by the pas­sion or error of the moment: the Cornelian, Pompeian,and Julian laws, were adapted by a single hand to theprevailing disorders: but the senate, under the reign ofthe Caesars, was composed of magistrates and lawyers,and in questions of private jurisprudence, the integrityof their judgment was seldom perverted by fear or inte­rest.' The silence or ambiguity of the laws was supplied by Edicts o«the occasional edicts of those magistrates who were ifr* P****"vested with the honours of the state." This ancient pre­rogative of the Roman kings was transferred, in their re­spective offices, to the consuls and dictators, the censorsand prastors; and a similar right was assumed by the tri*bunes of the people, the ediles, and the proconsuls; AtRome, and in the provinces, the duties of the subject,and the intentions of the governor, were proclaimed; andthe civil jurisprudence was reformed by the annual edictsof the supreme judge, the praetor of the city. As soonas he ascended his tribunal, he announced by the voice »of the crier, and afterward inscribed on a white wall, therules which he proposed to follow in the decision ofdoubtful cases, and the relief which his equity wouldafford from the precise rigour of ancient statutes. Aprinciple of discretion more congenial to monarchy Wasintroduced into the republic: the art of respecting thename, and eluding the efficacy, of the laws, was improv­ed by successive praetors; subtleties and fictions wereinvented to defeat the plainest meaning of the decemvirs,and where the end was salutary,tbe means were frequent- 1 Non amhigitur senatam jus facere posse, is the decision of Ulpian. (lib. 16. adEdict. in Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 3. leg. 9.) Pomponins taxes the comitia of the peopleas a tarha hominom. (Pandect, lib. i. tit. 2. leg. 9.) k The jus honorarium of the praetors and other magistrates is striotly defmed inthe Latin text of the Institutes, (lib. 1. tit. 2. no. 7.) and more loosely explained inthe Greek paraphrase of Theophilos, (p. 33—38. edit. Keitz.) who drops the import­ant word honorarium.