OCR Output VAHIANA. 1259 VASIO. in to be navigable (Plin. ii. 3. s. 4), anil whereka the main road through Spain crossed the river,rt*«n Calagurra and Tritium, (/tin. Ant p.<J.'I, where, under the name of V' rela, the name•ii is undoubtedly meant.) Usually identifiediili Korea (cf. Flora, Cantabr. p. 198), though•me have sought it at Logrtmo, and others at Mu-iUo at Mo Leza. [T. H. D.] VAKIA'NA (BapidVa), a town in Lower Moesian the Danube, was the garrison of a portion of thelih legion and of a squadron of horso. (/*. Ant.. 221); Procop. de Atd. iv. 6; A'ofii/. Imp., where is called Variuiana and Variru.) Its site isurknl by the town of Orcaja or Orcam. [L. S.] \ AkIANAE, a place in Pannonia, on the roadiiiiiing along the left bank of the Savus from Siscia> Sinnium. (It Ant. pp. 260, 265.) Its exactite is only matter of conjecture, [I* S-] VAKl'Nl, a German tribe mentioned by Plinyiv. 28) aa a branch of the Vindili or Vandali,•oil* Tacitus (Germ. 40) speaks of them as be­ting to the Suevi. But they must have occupied disLricl in the north of Germany, not far fromIm ceast of the Baltic, and are probably the samei the rbarodini (*apoStivol) of Ptolemy (ii. 11. 11), in the country between the Chalusus andaebus; it is highly probable, also, that the VarniUwvv«) of Prucopius (B. Goth. ii. 15, iii. 35,.'. 20, &c.) are the same people as the Varini.lie Virani (OtUpovroi) of Ptolemy (ii. II. § 17),rbo dwelt norlli of tlie Albia, seem to have been annrh of the Varini. (Comp. Cassiod. far. iii. 3,lirre tlicy are called Guami; Wersebe, Betchreib.rr Gun zteitcken Kibe, Saale, ifc. p. 70.) [L. S.] VA1UST1. [Narisci.] VAKL'6 (OCapor), a river which the ancientwgnpbrrs make the boundary of Gallia and Italia,< it is now the boundary of France and Italy.Mela, a. 4; Ptol. ii. 10. § 1.) It is only the lowerart 14* tlie l*ur which forms the boundary betweeniii and France. The river gives its name to thet?!N-k department of far, tlie eastern limit of which toe lower course of the river Var. The largerin of the I'or is in the Sardinian territory. It is>U the mouth of tho Var which Ptolemy namesl«i he fixe* the limit between Italy and Galliairbonrnsi*. U'Anville remarks on the line of La-» (L 404) — "Finis et Hespcriae promote limito Varus "— tat be alludes to tlie extension of the boundary ofsir westward from the summit of the Alois Mari-tiis, which U Italy's natural boundary. lie adds.it the dependencies of the province of the Alpesaritiinae comprehended Cemenelium (Cimiez) andi district, wliicli are on the Italian side of tlie I ar■ leastof Nicaea(A'ici). [Ckhf.mkijlm]. ButAnville may hare mistaken Lucan's meaning, whoems to allude to the extension of the boundary ofsly from the Kubicon to the Varus, as Vibius Se-mtrr says: "Varus nunc Galliam dividit, ante!l>iron " (eH. Olierl.). However, the critics are not:wl about this passage. (D'AnviUe, Aotice, ifc.;kert, Colts**, p. 81.) [G. L.] VASADA (OodVooa), a town of Lycaonia, atile to tlie south-west of Laodiceia (Ptol. v. 4.10; Hierocl. p. 675; Cone Choked, p. 674,nrrw it is miswrittcn Of*aa5a,- Cone. Const, iii.674, where it bears the name of 'Adnata). Itsr is probably marked by the ruins near Chtmnvr..imoA, between llgm and Ladik. (Hamilton, Researches, ii. p. 190, in the Journ. of the Roy.Geogr. Soe. viii. p. 144; Kicpert, in Franz, Fin/Inschriften, p. 36.) [L. S.] VASALAETUS (Ouoo-dAouToy or Oi>ao-<lA<Tov6pot, PtoL iv. 3. §§ 18, 26), a mounuin at theS. boundary of the Kegio Syrtica. [T. H. D.] VASATAE. [Cossio or Cossium.J VASATKS. It is probable that the name Va-sarii in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 15) should be Vasatii, a*IVAnville says, and so it is printed in some Greektexts. But Ptolemy makes them border on the Ga-bali and places them farther north than Bordeaux,though be names their chief town Cossium. The Vo-catcs are enumerated by Caesar (B. G. iii. 23, 27)among the Aquitanian peoples who submitted to P.Crassus in n. c. 56. [Cossio or Cossium.] [G.L.] VA'SCONES (OidffitaiMr, Strab. iii. pp. 155,116; ObiaKons, Ptol. ii. 8. §§ 10, 67), a people inthe NE. part of Hispania Tarraconensis, between theIberus and the Pyrenees, and stretching as far as theN. coast, in the present Kavarre auil Guiputcoa.Their name is preserved in the modem one of theBasques; although that people do not call themselvesby that appellation, but Evscatdmac, their countryKuscaltna, and their language Kuscara. (Ford'sHandbook qf Spain, p. 557; cf. W. v. Humboldt,Untertuch. &c. p. 54.) They went into battle bare­headed. (Sil. Ital. iii. 358.) They passed amongthe Koinaus for skilful soothsayers. (Lamp. Alex.Sev. 27.) Their principal town was Pompelo(Pamplona). (Cf. Malte-brun, Moewrt et Usages desancient Habitant dEspagne, p. 309.) [T. H. D.] VA'SCONUM SALTUS, the W. offshoot of thoPyrenees, running along the Mare Cantabricum, andnamed after tlie Vascones, in whose territory it was.(Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; Auson. Ep. 15.) It may bemore precisely defined as that portion of the chainnow called Sierra de Vrcamo, S. de Augana, andS. Sejus, forming the E. part of the Cantabrianchain. [T.H. D.] VASIU (Oinaui*: Etk. Vasiensis), a towu ofthe Vucontii in Gallia Karboneiisis, and tlie onlytown which Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 17) assigns to them.Vasio is mentioned by Mela (ii. 5) as one of therichest towns of the Narboneusis; and Pliny (iii.4) names Vasio and Luc us Augusti at the twochief towns of the Vocontii. The ethnic nameVasiensis appears in the Noiitia of the Gallic Pro­vinces (Civitas Vasiensium), and in inscriptions.The place is Vniton in the department of Vauclnse,on the Ouvese, a branch of the Khone. It is now aMnall, decayed place; but there are remains whichshow that it may have been what Mela describes itto have been. The ancient remains are spread overa considerable surface. There is a Roman bridgeof a single arch over the Ouctxe, which still formathe only communication between tlie town and thefaubourg. The bridge is built on two rocks at thatpart of the river where the mountains which shut inthe bed of the river approach nearest. There arealso the remains of a theatre; the semicircle of thocavea is clearly traced, and the line of the prosceniumis indicated by some stonet which rise above theearth. There are also the remain* of a quay on thebanks of the river which was destroyed by an inun­dation in 1616. The quay was pierced at consider­able intervals by sewers which carried to the riverthe water and filth of the town: these sewers arelarge enough fin- a man to stand in upright. Thereare also traces of the aqueducts which brought tothe town the water* of the great spring of Urvtcau.