OCR Output TEMHSA. TENEA. 1125 in Tempe. This Longinus appears toivc been the L- Cassiua Long in us who was senty Cicur from Ulyria into Thessaly. (Caes. B. C.... M ) When Xerxes invaded Greece, n. c. 480,be Greeks «nt a force of 10,000 men to Teinpe, withtx intention of defending the pass against the Rer­an); but having learnt from Alexander, the king; Hiredonia, that there was another pass acrossIt Olympus, which entered Thessaly near Gonnus,a*n the gorge of Tempe commenced, the Greeksitbdrrw to Thermopylae. (Herod, vii. 173.)It was believed by the ancient historians and geo-ru| lwni that the gorge of Tempe had been pro-itpj by an earthquake, which rent asunder theoonlauiB, and afforded the waters of the Reneius anyrm te the sea. (Herod, vii. 129; Strab. ix.430.) But the Theliums maintained that it was• c«l Poseidon who had eplit the mountainsUral. Lc); while others supposed that this hader. the work of Hercules. (Died, iv. 58; Lucan,345.) The pass of Tempe was connected with the wor-.p«t Apollo. This god was believed to have gonelier to receive expiation after the slaughter ofi KTprnl I'ytho, and afterwards to have returnedDelphi, bearing in his liand a branch of laurelickei in the valley. Every ninth year the Del-am sent a procession to Tempe consisting of well-ti youths, of which the chief youth plucked ainch of laurel and brought it back to Delphi. Oni ixssion a. solemn festival, in which the inha-*riLA of the neighbouring regions took joirt, wasrotated at Tempe in honour of Apollo Tetnpeites.r (-rtx-eMioii was accompanied by a flute-player.*I»an, V.U. iii. 1; Plut. QuaesL Grace c 11.WJ, «b Murica, c. 14. p. 1136; Uockh, fnscr. ■ 1767, quoted by Grote, I/ist. of Greece, vol. ii.fci) The name of Tempe was applied to other beautifulThus ll»e valley, through which the He-it flows id Sicily, at called "Heloria Teuijw"r. /oil iv. 477); and Cicero gives the name ofu« to tlie valley of the Velinus, near Reate (ad- tv, 15). In the same way Ovid speaks of thee,«rooi* Tempe** (Am. i. 1. 15).U\ke, Surthern Greece, vol. iii. p. 390, seq.;IwcD, voi. ii. p. 109, seq.; Hawkins, in Walpole'svrfto% vol. i. p. 517, seq.; Kriegk, Dot Tkesta-\» Trmpc, Leipzig, 1835.)> KM PSA. [Tkmesa.] rtMPYHA (Ov. Trut. i. 10. 21; in Geogr. Rav. Tympira; iu It. Ant. p. 322, Timpirum; andt-ltitr. p. 602. Ad Uniinpara), n town in the S.IKmce. on the Kgnatian Way, between Trajano-i ir»i M»xiimannpolis. It was situated in a de-».*iirli rendered it a convenient spot for the■ationa of the predatory tribes in its neigh bour-i. Here the Thrausi attacked the Roman army ■ r Cn. Man!ins, on its return, loaded with booty,i-jii Thrace from Asia Minor (n. c. 1B8); but**Dt of shelter ex potted their movements to thelans, who were thus enabled to defeat them. xxxviii. 41.) The defile in question is pro-y the Mine as the KaynriAtw artva mentionedVffaan (fl. C. iv. 102), and through which, her»T Brut on and CasMus marched on their way'bilipf* (Tafel, de Viae Egnatiac Parte orient.M> P»ul Lucas (Trots Yog. pp. 25, 27)rds it a* corresponding to the modern Gur- [J. R.] fK NCTERI or TE'XCHTEKl (Teyartpoi, TryiCTTjpui, Try»c«po.( and Taryxp'*" orTa^ap*?a.),an important German tribe, which is first mentionedby Caesar (B. G. iv. 1, 4). They appear, togetherwith the Usipetes, originally to have occupied adistrict in the interior of Germany ; but on beingdriven from their original homes by the Suevi, andhaving wandered about for a period of three years,they arrived on the banks of the Lower Rhiic, andcompelled the Mens pi i who inhabited both sides ofthe river to retreat to the western bank. Some timeafter this, the Germans even crossed the Rhine, esta­blished themselveson the western bank, in the countryof the Menapii, and spread in all directions as far asthe districts of the Eburones and Condrusi, who seemto have invited their assistance against the Romans.This happened in B.C. 56. The Germans demandedto be allowed to settle in Gaul; but Caesar, declar­ing that there was no room for them, promisedto procure habitations for them in the country ofthe Ubii, who happened to have sent ambassadorsto him at that time. The Germans asked fur threedays to consider the matter, requesting Caesar notto advance farther into their country. But, res­pecting some treacherous design, he proceeded onhis march, and an engagement ensued, in whichthe Romans were defeated and sustained seriouslosses. On the following day the chiefs of theGermans appeared before Caesar, declaring thattheir people had attacked the Romans withouttheir orders, and again begged Caesar to stop hismarch. Caesar, however, not only kept the chiefsas his prisoners, but immediately ordered an attackto be made on their camp. The people, who duringthe absence of their chiefs had abandoned themselvesto the feeling of security, were thrown into the great­est confusion by the unsuspected attack. The men,however, fought on and among their waggons, whilethe women and children took to flight. The Romancavalry pursued the fugitives; and when the Ger­mans heard the screams of their wives and children,and saw them cut to pieces, they threw away theiranus and fled towards the Rhine; but as the riverstopped their flight, a great number of them perishedby the sword of the Romans, and others weredrowned in the Rhine. Those who escaped acrtpssthe river were hospitably received by the Sigambri,who assigned to the Tencteri the district betweenthe Ruhr and the Sitg. (Caes. B. G. iv. 4—16;Livy, Epit. lib. rxxxviii.; Tac. Germ. 32, 33, Ann.xiii. 56, Hist iv. 21,64, 77; Plut. Caes. 21;Dion Cass, xxxix. 47, lit. 20, 21; Flor. iii. Id.iv. 12 ; Or os. iv. 20; A apian, de Reb. Gall 4, 18;Ptol. ii. II. § 8.) The Tencteri were particularlycelebrated for their excellent cavalry; and iu theirnew country, on the eastern bank of the Rhine, theypossessed the town of Budaris (either Sfotifteim or]>uaeldurf), and the fort of Divitia (Deutz). Inthe reign of Augustus, the Tencteri joined the con­federacy of the Cherusci (Liv. L c), and afterwardsrepeatedly appear joining other tribes in their warsagainst Rome, until in the end they appear as a partof the great confederacy of the Franks. (Greg.Tur. ii. 9 ; com p. Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 141;Reich a rd, Germanien, p. 31; Latham, Tacit Germ.p. 110.) [L.S.] TE'NEA (Ttvta: Elh. T«r«d>7)>), the most im­portant place in the Corinlhia after the city of Co­rinth and her port towns, was situated south of thecapita), and at the distance of 60 stadia from theUtter, according to Pausanias. The southern pat.of Corinth was called the Teneatic, from iu leading t» 4 c 3