OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 363 blushed at their easy victory over the natives of Ar- chap. VYYTV menia. But the long experience of war had hardened the minds and bodies of that effeminate people; theirzeal and bravery were approved in the service of adeclining empire; they abhorred and feared the usurpa­tion of the house of Sassan, and the memory of per­secution envenomed their pious hatred of the ene­mies of Christ. The limits of Armenia, as it hadbeen ceded to the emperor Maurice, extended as faras the Araxes; the river submitted to the indignityof a bridge *, and Heraclius, in the footsteps of MarkAntony, advanced towards the city of Tauris orGandzaca, the ancient and modern capital of one ofthe provinces of Media. At the head of forty thou­sand men, Chosroes himself had returned from somedistant expedition to oppose the progress of the Ro­man arms; but he retreated on the approach of Hera­clius, declining the generous alternative of peace or ofbattle. Instead of half a million of inhabitants, whichhave been ascribed to Tauris under the reign of theSophys, the city contained no more than three thou­sand houses; but the value of the royal treasures wasenhanced by a tradition, that they were the spoils ofCrcesus, which had been transported by Cyrus fromthe citadel of Sardes. The rapid conquests of Hera­clius were suspended only by the winter season; amotive of prudence determined his retreat into theprovince of Albania, along the shores of the Caspian;and his tents were most probably pitched in the plainsof Mogan, the favourite encampment of orientalprinces. In the course of this successful inroad, hesignalized the zeal and revenge of a Christian em­peror: at his command, the soldiers extinguished the * Etpontem indignatus Araxes. Virgil, jEneid, viii. 728. The river Araxes is noisy, rapid, vehement, and, with the meeting of the snows,irresistible: the strongest and most massy bridges are swept away by the current;and its indignation is attested by the ruins of many arches near the old town ofZulfa. Voyages de Chardin, tom. i. p. 252.