OCR Output VG JERUSALEM. JEUUSALEM. on the sloping side of a hill, and the streets werefurnished with raised pavements, along which someof the passengers walked on high, while others keptthe lower path, —a precaution adopted to securethose who were purified from the pollution whichcontact with anything unclean could have occa­sioned The place, too, was well adapted for mercantile pursuits, and abounded in artificers ofvarious crafts. Its market was supplied with spicery,gold, and precious stones, by the Arabs, in whoseneighbouring mountains there had formerly beenmines of copper and iron, but the works had beenabandoned during the Persian domination, in conse­quence of a representation to the government thatthey must prove ruinously expensive to the country.It was also richly furnished with all such articlesas are imported by sea, since it had commodiousharbours — as A.*calon, .Toppa, Gaza, and Ptolcmais,from none of which it was far distant." (Aristeas,op, GaUandii Bihliotk. Vet. Pat. torn. iL pp. 805,fee.) The truthfulness of this description is notaffected by the authorship; there is abundance ofevidence, internal and external, to prove that it waswritten by one who had actually vi-itcd the Jewishcapital daring the times of the Ptolemies (<ir.B.c. 250). The Seleucidae of Asia were not behind tbe Pto­lemies in their favours to the Jews; and the peaceand prosperity of the city suffered no material dimi­nution, while it was handed about as a marriagedowry, or by the chances of war, between the rivals,until internal factions subjected it to the dominionof Antiochua Kpiphanea, whose tyranny crushed fora time the civil and ecclesiastical polity of thenation (h, c. 175). The Temple was stripped of itscostly sacred vessels, the palaces burned, tbe citywalls demolished, and an idol-altar raised on thevery altar of the Temple, on which daily sacrifices ofswine were offered. This tyranny resulted in avigorous national revolution, which secured to theJews a greater amount of independence than theyhad enjoyed subsequently to the captivity. Thiscontinued, under the Asmonean princes, until the con­quest of the country by the K<unans: from whichtime, though nominally subject to a native prince,it was virtually a mere dependency, and little morethan a province, of the Roman empire. Once againbefore this the city waa recaptured by AntiochuaSidetes, during the reign of John Hyrcanus (cir.135), when tbe city walls, which had been restoredby Judas, were again levelled with the ground. 4. The capture of the city by Pompey isrecorded by Strabo, and was the first considerableevent that fixed the attention of the classical writerson the city (n.c. 63). He ascribes the interventionof Pompey to the disputes of the brothers Hyrcanusand Aristobulua, the sons of Alexander Jannaeus,who firat assumed regal power. He htates that theconqueror levelled the fortifications when he hadtaken the city, which he did by filling up an enor­mous fosse which defended the Temple on the northfide. The particulars of tbe siege are more fullygiven by Joscphus, who stales that Pompey enteredthe Holy of Holies, bnt abstained from the sacredtreasures of the Temple, which were plundered byCrassus on his way to Psrthia (a. c. 54). Thestraggle far power between Antigonus, the son ofAristobalus, and Herod, the son of Antipater, led tothe Racking of the city by the Parthian*, whose aidhad been nought by the former (». c. 40). Herod,having leen appointed king by the senate, only secured possession of his capital after a long siege,in which he waa assisted by Sosius, Antonys lieu­tenant, and the Roman legionaries. Mention hasbeen already made of the palace in the Upper Cityand the fortress Antonia, erected, or enlarged anilbeautified, by Herod. He also undertook to restorethe Temple to a state of magnificence that shouldrival the glory of Solomon's ; and a particular de­scription is given of this work by the Jewish his-torian {Ant. xv. 11.) The erection of a theatre andcircus, and the institution of quinquennial games inhonour of the emperor, went far to conform his cityto a pagan capital. On the death of Herod and thebanishment of his son Archelaus.Judaea was reducedto a Roman province, within the praefectnre of Syria,and subject to a subordinate governor, to whom wasintrusted the power of life and death. His ordinaryresidence at Jerusalem was the fortress Antonia;bnt Cacsarea now shared with Jerusalem tlie dig­nity of a metropolis. Coponius was the first procu­rator (a. i>. 7), under the praefect Cyrenius. Theonly permanent monument left by the procuratorsis the aqueduct of Pontius Pilate (a. d. 26—36),constructed with the sacred Corban, which be seizedfor that purpose. This aqneduct still exist*, andconveys the water from tlie Pads of Solon urn to theMask at Jerusalem (ffotjf City, vol. ii. pp. 498—501).The particulars of the siege by Titus, so fully de­tailed by Josephus, can only be briefly alluded to.It occupied nearly 100,000 men little short offive months, having been commenced on the 14thof Xauthicus (April), and terminated with the cap­ture and conflagration of tho Upper City on the6th of Gorpeius (September). This is to be ac­counted for by the fact that, not only did each ofthe three walls, but also the Portress and Temple,require to be taken in detail, so that the operationsinvolved five distinct sieges. The generals campwas established close to the Psephine Tower, withone legion, the twelfth; the tenth was encampednear the summit of Mount Olivet; the fifth oppo­site to the Hippie Tower, two stadia distant fn*nit. The first assault waa made apparently betweenthe towers Hippkus and Pscphinus, and tlieouter wall was carried on the fifteenth day of tbethe siege. This new wall of Agrippa was im­mediately demolished, and Titus encamped withinthe New City, on th« traditional camping-ground ofthe Assyrians. Five days later, the second wallwas carried at its northern quarter, but the Romanswere repulsed, and only recaptured it after a stoatresistance uf three days. Four banks were thenraised,—two against Antonia, and two agaimt thenorthern wall of the Upper City. After seventeendays of inces.-ant toil the Komans discovered thattheir banks had been undermined, and their engine*were destroyed by fire. It was then resolved tosurround tlie city with a wall, so as to farm acomplete blockade. The line of circumralbhon,39 furlongs in circuit, with thirteen redoubts eooalto an additional 10 furlongs, was completed in threedays. Four fresh banks were rained in twenty-onedays, and tlie Antonia was carried two months afterthe occupation of the Lower City. Another monthelapsed before they eonld succeed in gaining theInner Sanctuary, when tlie Temple was accidentallyfired by the Human soldiers. The Upper City stillheld out. Two banks were next rained agsin»t itseastern wall over again*! the Temple. This occu­pied eighteen day*; and the 1'pper City was atlength carried, a month after the Inner Sanctuary.