OCR Output 170 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774. the people, indulge his taste for pleasure; let him passhis day in the glare of public spectacles, and his nightin social revelry, rather than live sequestered frommankind, without a joy to cheer him, in painful vigilsand the gloom of solitude brooding over his cares,and thinking only to engender mischief. XXXVIII. The ruin of eminent citizens had not yetappeased the rage of Tiberius and, his crew of in­formers. An accusation was preferred by AnchariusPriscus against Csesius Cordus, proconsul of Crete,for peculation and violated majesty. The last arti­cle was, at that time, the burden of every prosecu­tion. Antistius Vetus, a man of the first consequencein Macedonia, had been accused of adultery, and ac-'quitted. This gave umbrage to Tiberius. He cen­sured the judges, and ordered Vetus to be tried onthe usual charge of violated majesty. He representedhim as a man of a turbulent spirit, and an accom­plice with Rhescuporis at the time when that barba­rian, having put his nephew, Cotys, to death, was onthe eve of a war with Rome. Vetus fell a sacrifice.He was interdicted from fire and water, with an ad­ditional sentence, that he should be confined to someisland not contiguous either to Macedonia or Thrace. Since the partition of the latter kingdom betweenRhsemetalces and the sons of Cotys, to whom Tre-bellienus Rufus was appointed guardian, that countrycontinued in a state of tumult and hostility to Rome.The people saw, with minds exasperated, the griev­ances inflicted on the natives, and, having no pros­pect of redress, accused Trebellienus no less thanRhsemetalces. In the same juncture the Cselaletans,the Odrysseans, Dians, and other adjacent states, inone general revolt, had recourse to arms. They tookthe field under their own respective chiefs, men of noconsideration, and all by their meanness and incapa­city reduced to one common level. Hence no con­certed plan, no spirit of union. By one party thecountry was laid waste; another passed over mountHsemus, with a design to draw distant nations intotheir confederacy; while the most numerous and best