OCR Output 250 THE DECLINE AND FALL sic and poetry, betrayed some symptoms of a liberal taste: the more ignoble arteof the son of Theophilus were confined to the chariot-race of the hippodrome. Thefour factions which had agitated the peace, still amused the idleness, of the capi­tal: for himself, the emperor assumed the blue livery; the three rival colours weredistributed to his favourites, and in the vile, though eager contention, he forgot thedignity of his person, and the safety of his dominions. He silenced the messengerof an invasion, who presumed to divert his attention in the most critical momentof the race; and by his command, the importunate beacons were ektinguished,that too frequently spread the alarm from Tarsus to Constantinople. The mostskilful charioteers obtained the first place in his confidence and esteem; their me­rit was profusely rewarded: the emperor feasted in their houses, and presentedtheir children at the baptismal font; and while he applauded his own popularity,he affected to blame the cold and stately reserve of his predecessors. The unna­tural lusts which had degraded even the manhood of Nero, were banished fromthe world; yet the strength of Michael was consumed by the indulgence of loveand intemperance. In his midnight revels, when his passions were inflamed bywine, he was provoked to issue the most sanguinary commands; and if any feelingsof humanity were left, he was reduced, with the return of sense, to approve thesalutary disobedience of his servants. But the most extraordinary feature in thecharacter of Michael, is the profane mockery of the religion of his country. Thesuperstition of the Greeks might indeed excite the smile of a philosopher: but hissmile would have been rational and temperate, and he must have condemned theignorant folly of a youth who insulted the objects of public veneration. A buffoonof the court was invested in the robes of the patriarch; the twelve metropolitans,among whom the emperor was ranked, assumed their ecclesiastical garments: theyused or abused the sacred vessels of the altar; and in their bacchanalian feasts,the holy communion was administered in a nauseous compound of vinegar and mus­tard. Nor were these impious spectacles concealed from the eyes of the city.On the day of a solemn festival, the emperor, with his bishops or buffoons, rodeon asses through the streets; encountered the true patriarch at the head of hisclergy; and by their licentious shouts and obscene gestures, disordered the gravityof the Christian procession. The devotion of Michael appeared only in some of­fence to reason or piety: be received his theatrical crowns from the statue of theVirgin; and an imperial tomb was violated for the sake of burning the bones ofConstantine the Iconoclast. By this extravagant conduct, the son of Theophilusbecame as contemptible as he was odious; every citizen was impatient for the deli­verance of his country; and even the favourites of the moment were apprehen­sive that a caprice might snatch away what a caprice had bestowed. In the thir­tieth year of his age, and in the hour of intoxication and sleep, Michael III. wasmurdered in his chamber by the founder of a new dynasty, whom the emperor hadraised to an equality of rank and power. The genealogy of Basil the Macedonian (if it be not the spurious offspring ofpride and flattery) exhibits a genuine picture of the revolution of the most illus­trious families. The Arsacides, the rivals of Rome, possessed the sceptre of theeast near four hundred years: a younger branch of these Parthian kings continuedto reign in Armenia; and their royal descendants survived the partition and servi.-tude of that ancient monarchy. Two of these, Artabanus and Chlienes, escapedor retired to the court of Leo I.; his bounty seated them in a safe and hospitableexile, in the province of Macedonia: Adrianople was their final settlement.During several generations they maintained the dignity of their birth; and theirRoman patriotism rejected the tempting offers of the Persian and Arabian powers,who recalled them to their native country. But their splendour was insensiblyclouded by time and poverty: and the father "of Basil was reduced to a small farm,which he cultivated with his own hands: yet he scorned to disgrace the blood ofthe Arsacides by a plebeian alliance—his wife, a widow of Adrianople, waspleased to count ameng her ancestors, the great Constantine; and their royal in­fant was connected by some dark affinity of lineage or country with the MacedonianAlexander. No sooner was he born, than the cradle of Basil, his family, and hiscity, were swept away by an inundation of the Bulgarians: he was educated a slavein a foreign land; and in this severe discipline, he acquired the hardiness of bodyand flexibility of mind which promoted his future elevation. In the age of youthor manhood he shared the deliverance of the Roman captives, who generouslybroke their fetters, marched through Bulgaria to the shores of the Euxine, de­feated two armies of the barbarians, embarked in the ships which had been sta­