OCR Output 334 THE HISTORY BOOK important exigencies: the fupreme command was,L _LITJ . with the confent of Agrippa, lodged in the hands ofY.R. 309. his colleague, who being thus raifed to a fuperiority,B.C. 443. made the politeft return for the other's cheerful con-defcenfion to act in a fubordinate capacity; makinghim a fharer in all his counfels and honours, andtreating him in every refpect as his equal, thoughunder his command. In the line of bajtle, Quintiuscommanded the right wing, Agrippa the left; thecare of the centre they entrufted to Spurius Poftu-mius Albus, lieutenant general; and gave the com­mand of the cavalry to another lieutenant general,Servius Sulpicius. The infantry, in the right wing,fought with extraordinary valour, and met with aftout refiftanqe from the Volfcians. Servius Sulpi­cius, with the cavalry, broke the centre of the ene­my's line, and when he might have returned to hisown fide, by the fame way, he thought it more ad-vifeable to make an attack on the rear of the enemy,before they could recover from the diforder intowhich their ranks had been thrown. By his chargeon their rear, the fnemy, being aflailed on bothfides, muft have been inftantly difperfed, had not thecavalry of the Volfcians and ^Equans, throwing them-felves in his way, given him employment, for a con-fiderable time, oppofing him with forces of the famekind with his own. On this, Sulpicius told his men,that there was no time to hefitate; and called outthat they were lurrounded, and cut off from theirfriends, if they did not unite their moft vigorous ef­forts, and rout the enemy's cavalry: nor was itenough to drive them off" the ground, without dif-abling them ; they muft kill both the horfes and theirriders, left any fhould return to the engagement andrenew the fight. The enemy, he faid, were notable to withftand them, to whom a compact body ofinfantry had been obliged to give way. His orderswere obeyed with alacrity. By one charge they rout­ed the whole body of cavalry, difmounted vaft num­bers,