OCR Output 374 FLAVIUSJOSEPIIUS [b. i. forty-three years and eight months before the Tyrians builtCarthage; and in their annals the building of our temple isrelated; for Hirom, the king of Tyro, was the friend ofSolomon our king, and had such friendship transmitted downto him from his forefathers. He thereupon was ambitious tocontribute to the splendor of this edifice of Solomon's, andmade him a present of one hundred and twenty talents ofgold. He also cut down the most excellent timber out ofthat mountain which is called Libanus, and sent it to himfor adorning its roof. Solomon also not only made him manyother presents, by way of requital, but gave him a countryin Galilee also that was called Chabulon.^ But there wasanother passion, a philosophic inclination of theirs, whichcemented the friendship that was betwixt them; for they sentmutual problems to one another, with a desire to have themunriddled by each other; wherein Solomon was superior toHirom, as he was wiser than he in other respects : and manyof the epistles that passed between them arc still preservedamong the Tyrians. Now, that this may not depend on mybare word, I will produce for a witness Dius, one that isbelieved to have written the Phoenician history after an ac­curate manner. This Dius, therefore, writes thus in hiphistories of the Phoenicians. — " Upon the death of Abibalus,his son Hirom took the kingdom. This king raised banks afthe eastern parts of the city, and enlarged it; he also joinedthe temple of Jupiter Olympus, which stood before in anisland by itself, to the city, by raising a causeway betweenthem, and adorned that temple with donations of gold. Hemoreover went up to Libanus, and had timber cut down forthe building of temples. They say farther, that Solomon,when he was king of Jerusalem, sent problems to Hirom tobe solved, and desired he would send others back for him tosolve; and that he who could not solve the problems proposedto him should pay money to him that solved thera. Andwhen Hirom had agreed to the proposals, but was not able tosolve the problems, he was obliged to pay a great deal ofmoney, as a penalty for the same. As also they relate that 1 1 Kings ix. 13.