OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 155 Jdm or I* was tne w*sn of Irene to supplant the eldestC"10- of her surviving sons, in favour of her daugh- Johanms, . °' ° A. D. 1118, ter, the princess Anna, whose philosophy wouldAngost is. not have jefose^ tne weigQt of a diadem. But the order of male succession was asserted by the friendsof their country; the lawful heir drew the royal signetfrom the finger of his insensible or conscious father, andthe empire obeyed the master of the palace. AnnaComnena was stimulated by ambition and revenge toconspire against the life of her brother; and when thedesign was prevented by the fears or scruples of herhusband, she passionately exclaimed, that nature hadmistaken the two sexes, and had endowed Bryenniuswith the soul of a woman. The two sons of Alexius,John and Isaac, maintained the fraternal concord, thehereditary virtue of their race: and the younger bro-.ther was content with the title of Sebastocrator, whichapproached the dignity, without sharing the power, ofthe emperor. In the same person, the claims of primo­geniture and merit were fortunately united; his swarthycomplexion, harsh features, and diminutive stature, hadsuggested the ironical surname of Calo-Johannis, orJohn the Handsome, which his grateful subjects moreseriously applied to the beauties of his mind. Afterthe discovery of her treason, the life and fortune ofAnna were justly forfeited to the laws. Her life wasspared by the clemency of the emperor; but he visitedthe pomp and treasures of her palace, and bestowedthe rich confiscation on the most deserving of his friends.That respectable friend, Axuch, a slave of Turkish ex­traction, presumed to decline the gift, and to intercedefor the criminal; his generous master applauded andimitated the virtue of his favourite, and the reproach orcomplaint of an injured brother was the only chastise­ment of the guilty princess. After this example of cle­mency, the remainder of his reign was never disturbedby conspiracy or rebellion: feared by his nobles, be­