OCR Output A. D. 15.] op TACiTtra. 69 The provinces of Achaia and Macedonia, being foundunequal to the taxes imposed upon them, were re­lieved from the expense ofsupporting a proconsulargovernment, and for the present transferred to thesuperintendence of the emperor. Drusus, in his awnname, and that of his brother Germanicus, exhibiteda spectacle of gladiators, and presided in person ; de­lighted, more than became his rank, with the effusionof blood, and, by consequence, giving to the populaceno favourable impression of his character. Tibe­rius, it is said, reproved him for his indiscretion.Why he himself did not attend the public games,various reasons were assigned. According to some," numerous assemblies were not his taste, and crowds" fatigued him." Others ascribed it to the phlegmaticgenius of the man, fond of solitude, and willing toavoid a comparison with the gracious manners ofAugustus, who was always a cheerful spectator onsuch occasions. That he intended, with covered ma­lice, to afford Drusus an opportunity of laying openthe ferocity of his nature, and thereby giving umbrageto the people, seems rather a strained construction ;yet even this was said at the time. LXXVII. The disorders occasioned by theatricalfictions in the preceding year, broke out again withincreasing fury. Numbers of the common people, andeven many of the soldiers, with their centurion, ex­erting themselves to quell the tumult, and defend themagistrate, were killed in the fray. A tribune of theprsetorian guard was wounded on the occasion. Theaffair was taken into consideration by the senate.The fathers were on the point of passing a vote, in­vesting the prsetor with authority to order the playersto be publicly whipped. This was opposed by Hate-mis Agrippa, a tribune of the people, who by hisspeech drew upon himself a sharp reply from Asi-nius Gallus. Tiberius with a deep reserve listened tothe debate. To see the senators amusing themselveswith a show of liberty, filled him with secret satisfac­tion. The motion, however, passed in the negative.The authority of Augustus, who had formerly decidedthat players were not liable to that mode of punish­