OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 73 on the ramparts and at the gates. As soon as day ap­peared the Roman army came up to the trenches, theNumidians, as, directed, showing themselves for sometime on the ramparts: having imposed on the enemyas Jong as possible, they rode off at full speed, untilthey overtook the body of their army» The consul,perceiving the camp perfectly silent, and no longerseeing any where even the small number who had pa­raded in view, at the dawn of day despatched twohorsemen to examine the state of the works; andwhen he learned with certainty that all was safe, heordered his army to march in. Here he delayed nolonger than while his men collected the plunder; then,sounding a retreat, long before night, he brought backhis forces into their tents. Next day, at the first light,he set out, and following by long marches the tracksof the Carthaginians by such intelligence as he couldprocure, overtook them not far from Venusia. Herelikewise an irregular kind of battle was fought, inwhich above two thousand of the fugitives fell. Fromthence, Hannibal, marching in the night, and takinghis way through mountains, that he might not beforced to an engagement, proceeded towards Meta-pontum: from which place Hanno, who commandedthe garrison of the town, was sent with a small partyinto Bruttium to raise fresh forces; while Hannibal,with the addition of the garrison to his own troops,went back to Venusia by the same roads throughwhich he had come, and thence to Canusium. Nerohad never quitted the enemy's steps, and when he wasgoing himself to Metapontum, had sent orders toQuintus Fnlvius to come into Lucania, lest that coun­try should be left without defence. 43. In the mean time Hasdrubal, having raised thesiege of Placentia, sent four Gallic horsemen, and twoNumidians, with a letter for Hannibal; these aftertraversing almost the whole length of Italy, throughthe midst of enemies, in order to follow him on hisretreat to Metapontum, mistook the road, and went to­wards Tarentum, where they were seized by some