OCR Output 2h THE DECLINE AND FALL hardships and accidents of these reiterated journeys. Yet his mind was still inde­pendent and erect; the president of Thebais was awed by his pastoral letters; hesurvived the catholic tyrant of Alexandria, and after sixteen years' banishment,the synod of Chalcedon would perhaps have restored him to the honours, or atleast to the communion of the church. The death of Nestorius prevented his obe­dience to their welcome summons;(l) and his disease might afford some colour tothe scandalous report, that his tongue, the organ of blasphemy, had been eaten bythe worms. He was buried in a city of Upper Egypt, known by the names ofChemnis, or Panapolis, or Akmin;(2) but the immortal malice of the Jacobites haspersevered for ages to cast stones against his sepulchre, and to propagate the fool­ish tradition, that it was never watered by the rain of heaven, which equally de­scends on the righteous and the ungodly. (3) Humanity may drop a tear on thefate of Nestorius; yet justice must observe, that he suffered the persecution whichhe had approved and inflicted. (4) The death of the Alexandrian primate, after a reign of thirty-two years, aban­doned the catholics to the intemperance of zeal, and the abuse of victory. (5) TheMonofihysite doctrine (one incarnate nature) was rigorously preached in thechurches of Egypt and the monasteries of the east; the primitive creed of Apolli-naris was protected by the sanctity of Cyril; and the name of Eutyches, his venera­ble friend, has been applied to the sect most adverse to the Syrian heresy of Nesto­rius. His rival Eutyches was the abbot, or archimandrite, or superior of three hun­dred monks: but the opinions of a simple and illiterate recluse might have expiredin the cell where he had slept above seventy years, if the resentment or indiscre­tion of Flavian, the Byzantine pontiff, had not exposed the scandal to the eyes ofthe Christian world. His domestic synod was instantly convened, their proceed­ings were sullied with clamour and artifice, and the aged heretic was surprisedinto a seeming confession, that Christ had not derived his body from the substanceof the Virgin Mary. From their partial decree Eutyches appealed to a generalcouncil: and his cause was vigorously asserted by his godson Chrysaphius, thereigning eunuch of the palace, and his accomplice Dioscorus who had succeeded tothe throne, the creed, the talents, and the vices, of the nephew of Theophilus.By the special summons of Theodosius, the second synod of Ephesus was judiciouslycomposed of ton metropolitans and ten bishops from each of the six diocesses of theeastern empire: some exceptions of favour or merit enlarged the number to onehundred and thirty-five; and the Syrian Barsumas, as the chief and representativeof the monks, was invited to sit and vote with the successors of the apostles. Butthe despotism of the Alexandrian patriarch again oppressed the freedom of de­bate: the same spiritual and carnal weapons were again drawn from the arsenalsof Egypt; the Asiatic veterans, a band of archers, served under the orders ofDioscorus: and the more formidable monks, whose minds were inaccessible to rea­son or mercy, besieged the doors of the cathedral. The general, and, as it shouldseem, the unconstrained voice of the fathers, accepted the faith arid even the ana­themas of Cyril; and the heresy of the two natures was formally condemned inthe persons and writings of the most learned orientals. " May those who divideChrist be divided with the sword; may they be hewn in pieces, may they be burntalive!" were the charitable wishes of a Christian synod.(6) The innocence andsanctity of Eutyches were acknowledged without hesitation: but the prelates, (1) The invitation of Kestorian to the synod of Chalcedon, is related by Zacharius, bishop of Melitene. (Eva-grius, lib. ii. c. 2. Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 55.) and the famous Xenaias or Fhiloxenus, bishop ofHierapolis, (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 40, Sec.) denied by Evagrius and Asseman, and stoutly main­tained by La Croze. (Thesaur. Epistol. torn. iti. p. 181, &c.) The fact is not improbable! yet it was the inte­rest of the Monophysites to spread the invidious report; and Entychius, torn. ii. p. 12. affirms, that Nestoriusdied after an exile of seven years, and consequently ten years before the synod of Chalcedon. (2) Consult d'Anville, Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 191.) Pocock, (Description of the East, vol. i. p. 76.) Abul-feda, (Descript. Egypt, p. 14.) and his commentator Michaelis, (Not. p. 78 —83.) and the Nubian Geographer,(p. 42.) who mentions, in the twelfth century, the ruins and the sujrat.-canes of Akmin. (3) Entychius, (Annal. torn. ii. p. 12.) and Gregory Bar-Hebrteus, of Abulpharagius Asseman. tem. ii. p.S16.) represent the credulity of the tenth and thirteenth centuries. (4) We are obliged to Evagrius (lib. i. c. 7.) for some extracts from the letters of Nestorius; but the livelypicture of his surTerings is treated with insult by the hard and stupid fanatic. (5) Dili Cyrillum dum viveret, auctoritate sua effecuse, ne Entychianismus et Monophy sitamm error innervum erumperet: idque verum pufo . ,. aliquo . . . honesto modo stzxitoJuw cecinrrat. The learnedbut cautious Jablomki did not always speak the whole truth. Cum Cyrillo lenius omnino egi, quam si tecum■aut CHm aliis rei hujus probe gnaris et acquis rerum aestimatorbus sermones privatos conferrem, Thesaur. Epis­tol. La Crozian, torn, i p. 107,198.) an excellent key to bis dissertations on the Nerftorian controversy! (6) H «y* cvvooos ttjrtv apov, Kxtxrov EuriStor, ours; £wv xai| owto; ii( Sua j-tvurai w; tfupttrt fafWrSti., . si tic MJr? 1Juo aKtSiaia. At the request of Dioscorus, those who were not able toroar(>3i»i<reii,)stretehed out their bands.At Chalcedon, the orientals disclaimed these acclamations ; but the Egyptians more consistently declaredcwra ui, t»ts ii>r»;«i» KM wv Ufojuv. (Concil.tpm. iv.p. 1012.)