OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 471 their children and disciples to satisfy the increasing chap.demand of the Western world. The decay of the XLI-looms of Sicily may be ascribed to the troubles of theisland, and the competition of the Italian cities. Inthe year thirteen hundred and fourteen, Lucca, alone,among her sister republics, enjoyed the lucrative mo­nopoly*. A domestic revolution dispersed the ma­nufacturers of Florence, Bologna, Venice, Milan, andeven the countries beyond the Alps; and thirteenyears after this event, the statutes of Modena enjointhe planting of mulberry trees, and regulate the du­ties on raw silkt. The northern climates are lesspropitious to the education of the silk-worm: but theindustry of France and England t is supplied and en­riched by the productions of Italy and China. I must repeat the complaint that the vague and Revenue ofscanty memorials of the times will not afford any just empire!*estimate of the taxes, the revenue, and the resourcesof the Greek empire. From every province of Europeand Asia the rivulets of gold and silver dischargedinto the Imperial reservoir a copious and perennialstream. The separation of the branches from thetrunk increased the relative magnitude of Constan­tinople; and the maxims of despotism contractedthe state to the capital, the capital to the palace, andthe palace to the royal person. A Jewish traveller,who visited the East in the twelfth century, is lost inhis admiration of the Byzantine riches. "It is here,"says Benjamin of Tudela, "in the queen of cities,"that the tributes of the Greek empire are annually"deposited, and the lofty towers are filled with pre- • See the Life of Castruccio Casticani, not by Machiavel, but by his moreauthentic biographer Nicholas Tegrimi. Muratori, who has inserted it in theninth volume of his Scriptores, quotes this curious passage in his Italian Anti­quities (tom. i. dissert. xxv. p. 46—48.). t From the MS. statutes, as they are quoted by Muratori, in his Italian An­tiquities (tom. ii. dissert. xxx. p. 46—48.). 5 The broad silk manufacture was established in England in the year 1620(Anderson's Chronological Deduction, vol. ii. p. 4); but it is to the revocationof the edict of Nantes that we owe the Spitalfields colony. H H i<