OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 405 occasion coming to Herod, and supping with him, saw Salome,and set his heart upon her; and, understanding that she was awidow, he discoursed with her. Now because Salome was atthis time less in favour with her brother, she looked upon Syl-leus with some passion, and was very earnest to be married tohim; and on the days following there appeared many, and thosevery great, indications of their agreement together. Now thewomen carried this news to the king, and laughed at the inde­cency of it; whereupon Herod inquired about it farther of Phe-roras, and desired him to observe them at supper, how their be­haviour was one toward another; who told him, that by thesignals which came from their heads and their eyes, they bothwere evidently in love. After this Sylleus the Arabian beingsuspected, went away, but came again two or three months after­wards, as it were on that very design, and spoke to Herodabout it, and desired that Salome might be given him to wife;for that his affinity might not be disadvantageous to his affairs,by a union with Arabia, the government of which country wasalready in effect under his power, and more evidently would behis hereafter. Accordingly, when Herod discoursed with hissister about it, and asked her, whether she were disposed to thismatch? she immediately agreed to it. But when Sylleus wasdesired to come over to the Jewish religion, and then he shouldmarry her, and that it was impossible to do it on any other terms,he could not bear that proposal, and went his way; for he saidthat if he should do so, he should be stoned by the Arabs. Thendid Pheroras reproach Salome for her incontinency, as did thewomen much more; and said that Sylleus had debauched her.As for that damsel, whom the king had betrothed to his bro­ther Pheroras, but he had not taken her, as I have before re­lated, because he was enamoured of his former wife, Salomedesired of Herod she might be given to her son by Costobarus;which match he was very willing to, but was dissuaded from itby Pheroras, who pleaded, that this young man would not bekind to her, since his father had been slain by him, and that itwas more just that his son, who was to be his successor in thetetrarchy, should have her: So he begged his pardon, and per­suaded him to do so. Accordingly the damsel, upon this changeof her espousals, was disposed of to this young man, the son ofPheroras, the king giving for her portion a hundred talents.