OCR Output CHAP. 4. ROMAN HISTORY. • % . 405 disease constantly prevailing in the state, that youmight always have recourse to them for a cure. But,tribune?, whether do you profess to be the people'sprotectors, or their enemies? Are you advocates for,or against the soldiers? Perhnps you will tell me,that every act of the senators, whether for, or againstthe interest of the commons, you are determined iodislike: and as masters did not suffer their slaves tohave any intercourse with their neighbours, that theymight neither be well or ill used by them, so you willnot suffer the commons to have any intercourse withthe nobles, lest by our complaisance and generosity,we should secure their attachment, and lest they, onthe other hand, should shew their regard, in their obe­dience to our orders. How much more then should itbe your study, suppose you had no regard for the state,if you had but the least spark of humanity remaining,to use your utmost endeavours, to promote this reci­procal complaisance and compliance between the se­nate and people > For, should this harmony be per­manent, who would not venture to promise, that thisour empire would soon be the most respectable of allaround us? -' I CHAP. IV. Appius in continuation. N the sequel of my discourse, I shall show how muchtha resolution of my colleagues, not to withdraw thetroops from before Veil, till it is taken, is not only ex­pedient, but necessary: at present only permit me tospeak with regard to the condition of the troops there.And I am convinced, were I to speak, not only toyou, but in the camp, where the soldiers themselveswould be my judges, I should infallibly have theirapprobation. For, were my own ingenuity to furnishme with nothing new to advance in this affair, Ishould think myself at no loss, when I can confute myopponents from what they themselves have advanced.It was but lately that they insisted that the soldiersought to have rib pay iiow, because they had nonebefore. How then can they be offended now, when