OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 409 avoided all such needless decorations as Apion hath here de­vised. He says farther, — "How he had heard of the ancientmen, that Moses was of Heliopolis." To be sure that wasbecause being a younger man himself, he believed those thatby their elder age were acquainted and conversed with him !Now this grammarian as he was could not certainly tellwhich was the poet Homer's country, no more than he couldwhich was the country of Pythagoras, who lived comparativelybut a little while ago; yet does he thus easily determine theage of Moses, who preceded them such a vast number ofyears, as depending on his ancient men's relation, which showshow notorious a liar he was. But then as to this chronologicaldetermination of the time when he says he brought the leprouspeople, the blind and the lame out of Egypt, see how well thismost accurate grammarian of ours agrees with those thathave written before him. Manetho says, that the Jews de­parted out of Egypt in the reign of Tethmosis, three hundredand ninety-three years before Danaus fled to Argos; Lysi-machus says it was under king Bocchoris, that is, one thousandseven hundred years ago; Molo and some others determinedit as every one pleased ; but this Apion of ours, 33 deservingto be believed before them, hath determined it exactly to havebeen in the seventh Olympiad, and the first year of thatOlympiad; the very same year in which he says that Carthagewas built by the Phoenicians. The reason why he added thisbuilding of Carthage was, to bo sure, in order, as ho thought,to strengthen his assertion by so evident a character of chro­nology. But he was not aware that this character confuteshis assertion; for if we may give credit to the Phoenicianrecords as the time of the first coming of their colony toCarthage, they relate, that Hirom their king was above ahundred and fifty years earlier than the building of Carthage,concerning whom I have formerly produced testimonials outof those Phoenician records; as also that this Hirom was afriend of Solomon when he was building the temple at Jeru­salem, and gave him great assistance in his building thattemple; while still Solomon himself built that temple sixhundred and twelve years after the Jews came out of Egypt.IV. —35