OCR Output 380 LIVY. ships, and fifty lighter open ones, and thirty Isseanbarks, shall begin to lay waste our coasts, and attack,the cities which stand exposed, almost on the veryshore,—shall we then retreat into the inland towns, asif we were not afflicted with an intestine war, thoughin truth it is rankling in our very bowels? WhenNabis and the Lacedaemonians by land, and the Romanfleet by sea, shall press us, where must I implore thesupport due from the king's alliance; where the suc­cors of the Macedonians .' Shall we ourselves, withour own arms, defend, against the Roman forces, thecities that will be attacked? Truly, in the former war,we defended Dymse excellently well! The calamitiesof others afford us abundant examples; let us not seekto render ourselves an example to the rest. Do not,because the Romans voluntarily desire your friend­ship, contemn that which you ought to have prayedfor, nay, labored with all your might to obtain. Butit is insinuated that they are impelled by fear, in acountry to which they are strangers; and that, wishingto shelter themselves under your assistance, they haverecourse to your alliance in the hope of being admittedinto your harbors, and of there finding supplies of pro­visions. Now, at sea, they are absolute masters, andinstantly reduce to subjection every place at whichthey land. What they request they have power to en­force. Because they wish to treat you with tender­ness they do not allow you to take steps that mustlead you to ruin. Cleomedon lately pointed out, asthe middle and safest way, to maintain a neutrality;but that is not a middle way; it is no way: for, be­sides the necessity of either embracing or rejecting theRoman alliance, what other consequence can ensuefrom such conduct than that, while we show no steadyattachment to either side, as if we waited the eventwith design to adapt our counsels to fortune, we shallbscome the prey of the conqueror? Contemn not,then, when it is offered to your acceptance, what youought to have solicited with your warmest prayers.The free option between the two, which you have this