OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 517 borne up by it.1 At a certain time of the year2 it easts outbitumen: the manner of gathering it, like other arts, has beentaught by experience. The liquor is of its own nature of ablack color; and if you pour vinegar upon it, it clings to­gether, and swims on the top. Those whose business it istake it in their hands, and pull it into the upper parts of theship, after which it follows, without farther attraction, and"fills the ship full, till you cut it off: nor can you cut it offeither with a brass or iron instrument; but it cannot bear thetouch of blood, or of a cloth wet with the menstrual purga­tions of women, as the ancient authors say. But those thatare acquainted with the place assure us, that these waves ofbitumen are driven along, and by the hand drawn to the shore;and that when they are dried by the warm steams from theearth and the force of the sun, they are cut in pieces withaxes and wedges, as timber and stones are cut in pieces. Chap. VII.] Not far from this lake are those plains, whichare related to have been of old fertile, and to have had many3cities full of people, but to have been burnt up by a strokeof lightning: it is also said, that the footsteps of that de­struction still remain, and that the earth itself appears asburnt earth, and has lost its natural fertility: and that as anargument thereof, all the plants that grow of their own ac­cord, or are planted by the hand, whether they arrive at thedegree of an herb, or of a flower, or at complete maturity,become black and empty, and, as it were, vanish into ashes.As for myself, as I am willing to allow that these once famouscities were burnt by fire from heaven, so would I supposethat the earth is infected with the vapor of the lake, and 1 Strabo says, that a man could not sink into the water of this lake so deepas the navel. 2 Josephus never says that this bitumen was cast out at a certain time ofthe year only, and Strabo says the direct contrary; but Pliny agrees withTacitus. 8 This is exactly according to Josephus, and must have been taken fromhim in the place forecited, aud that particularly because it is peculiar to him,so far as I know, in all antiquity. The rest thought the cities were in thevery same place where now the lake is, but Josephus and Tacitus say theywere "in its neighborhood only, which is Mr. Reland's opinion also. IV. —44