OCR Output 212 [BOOK VI; ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and manners, and take up boldness, insolence,and a contempt of both divine and humanlaws. And that at a time when they espe­cially stand in need of piety and righteous­ness; because they are then peculiarly ex­posed to envy, and all they think and say arein the view of all men; then it is that theybecome so insolent in their actions, as thoughGod saw them no longer, or were afraid ofthem, because of their power. And whatso­ever it is that they are either afraid of by therumours they hear, or they hate by inclination,or love without reason; these seem to themto be authentic, firm, and true, and pleasingboth to man and to God. But as to whatwould come hereafter, they have not the leastregard to it. They raise those to honour,indeed, who have been at a great deal ofpains for them, and after that honour theyenvy them, and when they have broughtthem unto high dignity, they do not only de­prive them of what they had obtained; but onthat very account of their lives also; andthat on wicked accusations, and such as, onaccount of their extravagant nature, are in­credible. They also punish men, not for suchactions as deserve condemnation, but fromcalumnies and accusations without examina­tion; and this extends not only to such as de­serve to be punished, but to as many as theyare able to kill This reflection is openlyconfirmed from the example of Saul, the sonof Kish; who was the first king who reignedafter our aristocracy, and government underthe judges: and that by his slaughter of threehundred priests and prophets, on occasion ofhis suspicion about Ahimeleoh, and by theadditional wickedness of the overthrow oftheir city; and this as if he were endeavouringin some sort to render the tabernacle desti­tute both of priests and prophets; which en­deavour he shewed by slaying so many ofthem, and not suffering the very city be­longing to them to remain, lest others mightexceed them. But Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, whoalone could be saved out of the family ofpriests slain by Saul, fled to David; and in­formed him of the calamity that had befallentheir family; and of the slaughter of his fa­ther. David replied that he was not unap- prised of what would follow with relation tothem, when he saw Doeg there; for he hadthen a suspicion that the high-priest wouldbe falsely accused by him to the king; andhe blamed himself as having been the causeof this misfortune. But he desired him tostay there, and abide with him,* as in a placewhere he might be better concealed than anywhere else. chap. xm. of david's generosity in repeatedly sparing the lifeof saul, when opportunities offered for his de­struction, and of the death of samuel and nabal. ABOUT this time David heard that thePhilistines had made an inroad into thecountry of Keilah,f and robbed it. So heoffered himself to fight against them, if God,when he should be consulted by the prophet,would grant him the victory. And when theprophet said, that God gave the signal of vic­tory, he made a sudden onset upon the Phi­listines, with his companions; and he shed agreat deal of blood, and carried ofTtheir prey,and staid with the inhabitants of Keilah tillthey had securely gathered in their corn, andtheir fruit. However it was told Saul, thatDavid was with the men of Keilah; for whathad been done, and the great success thathad attended him, were not confined amongthe people where the things were done; butthe fame of it went all abroad, and came tothe hearing of others; and both the fact as itstood, and the author of the fact were carriedto the king's ears. Then was Saul glad whenhe heard that David was in Keilah; and hesaid, " God hath now put him into my hands,since he hath obliged him to come into a citythat hath walls, and gates, and bars." So hecommanded all the people to set upon Keilahsuddenly; and when they had besieged andtaken it, to kill David. But when David per­ceived this, and learned of God that if hestayed there the men of Keilah would deliverhim up to Saul, he took his four hundredmen, and retired into a desert, that was overa city called Engaddi. So when the kingheard he was fled away from the men ofKeilah, he left off his expedition against him.JThen David removed thence, and came to * 1 Sam. Mii. 23. t 1 Sam. xxiii. 1. et seq. l 1 Sam. xxiii. 13. .