OCR Output 156 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. of the carcases. But the dogs, because of their familiaritywith man, afforded a more notorious proof of the event. The nature of this pestilential disorder was in general—for I have purposely omitted its many varied appearances, orthe circumstances particular to some of the infected incontradiction to others—such as hath been described. Noneof the common maladies incident to human nature prevailedat that time ; or whatever disorder any where appeared, itended in this. Some died merely for want of care; andsome, with all the care that could possibly be taken; norwas any one medicine discovered, from whence could bepromised any certain relief, since that which gave ease toone was prejudicial to another. Whatever difference therewas in bodies, in point of strength or in point of weakness,it availed nothing ; all were equally swept away before it, inspite of regular diet and studied prescriptions. Yet the mostaffecting circumstances of this calamity were—that dejec­tion of mind, which constantly attended the first attack ;for the mind sinking at once into despair, they the soonergave themselves up without a struggle—and that mutualtenderness, in taking care of one another, which commu­nicated the infection, and made them drop like sheep*.This latter case caused the mortality to be so great. For iffear withheld them from going near one another, they diedfor want of help, so that many houses became quite desolatefor want of needful attendance : And if they ventured, theywere gone. This was most frequently the case of the kind • This passage is thus translated upon the authority of Dr. Mead, in histreatise on the Plague, which convinced me that the comma should be omit­ted in the original after x, and be governed of «Lucretius hath given it a different turn, as if the resemblance to sheep wasnot in their dying fast, but to the forlorn and solitary manner in whichthose creatures die ; and lie hath put before it wbut follow sa little after inThucydides. Nam quicunque suos fugitabant visere ad aegros, Vitai nimum cupidi, mortisque timentes, Pccnibat puulo post turpi morte malaqoe Dt'sertos, opis rxpertes, incuria maclans, Lanigeraa taiiquam pecudes, ct bucera saecla.