OCR Output 210 THE ATTEMPT OF MARHJS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. intended to have his consulship annually renewed, likethe tribunate of Gracchus. But, amidst the agreement ofthe political positions marked out for the younger Gracchusand for Marius in all other essential particulars, there wasyet a very material distinction between the land-assigningtribune and the land-assigning consul in the fact, that theformer was to occupy a purely civil position, the latter amilitary position as well; a distinction, which partly but byno means solely arose out of the personal circumstancesunder which the two men had risen to the head of thestate. While such was the nature of the aim which Marius andhis comrades had proposed to themselves, the next questionrelated to the means by which they purposed to break downthe resistance, that might be anticipated to be obstinate, ofthe government party. Gaius Gracchus had fought hisbattles with the aid of the capitalist class and the proletariate.His successors did not neglect to make advances likewise tothese. The equites were not only left in possession of thetribunals, but their power as jurymen was considerably in­creased, partly by a stricter ordinance regarding the standingcommission—especially important to the merchants—as toextortions on the part of the public magistrates in the pro­vinces, which Glaucia carried probably in this year, partly103. by the special tribunal, appointed perhaps as early as 651 onthe proposal of Saturninus, respecting the embezzlementsand other official malversations that had occurred during theCimbrian commotion in Gaul. For the benefit, moreover,of the proletariate of the capital the sum below cost price,which hitherto had to be paid on occasion of the distribu­tions of grain for the modius, was lowered from 6$ asses to amere nominal charge of J of an as. But, although they didnot despise the alliance with the equites and the proletariateof the capital, the real power by which the confederatesmainly enforced their measures lay not in these, but in thedischarged soldiers of the Marian army, who for that veryreason had been provided for in the colonial laws themselvesafter so extravagant a fashion. In this respect also the pre­eminently military character was conspicuous, which formsthe chief distinction between this attempt at revolution andthat which preceded it.Violent in- They went to work accordingly. The corn and colonialteifereuces jaws encountered, as was to be expected, the keenest opposi­