OCR Output i-& THE HISTORY B o^o K Volfcians and ^Equans were vanquifhed in that year,• -y-^j defrauded the troops of the booty: the whole of whatY.R..z69. was taken from the enemy, the conful Fabius fold,B.C.483. and lodged the produce of it in the treafury. Thename of Fabius was odious to the commons, on ac­count of the laft conful j yet the patricians had influ-K'c' 2vj' cnce enough to procure the election of Caefo Fabiusto the confulthip, with Lucius .flimilius. This far­ther exafpcrated the commons, who, by raifing afedition at home, encouraged foreign enemies toattack them: the war put a ftop to inteftinc difien-fions. The patricians and plebeians united, andunder the'conduct of /Emilius, with little lofs tothemfelves, overthrew in battle the Volfcians and.fliquans, who had revived hoftilities. On this oc-cation, the enemy loft greater numbers during theirretreat, than in the battle; for, after they werebroken, they were purfued by the cavalry to a greatdiftance. .In the fame year, on the ides of July, thetemple of Caftor was dedicated: it had been vowed,during the Latine war, by Poftumius the dictator,and his fon, being appointed duumvir for the pur-pofe, performed the dedication. This year alfothe minds of the people were tempted to new exer­tions, by the charms of the agrarian law. Thetribunes wilhed to enhance the popularity of theiroffice, by promoting that popular law. The patri­cians, convinced that the multitude were, of them-fctves, without any inftigation, too much inclined todefperate meafures, looked with horror on fuchlargefies, as incitements to acts of temerity; and theyfound in the confuls, leaders as active as they couldwifh, in oppofing thofe proceedings: their partyconlcquently prevailed; and that, not only for theprefent, but they were able to appoint as confuls for B c *!' t'ie aPProacn'ng 7ear Marcus Fabius, brother to '"""* '' Carfo, and Lucius Verus, who was ftill more odious to the plebeians, on account of his having been the profccutor of Spurius Caffius. In that year, there . . was