OCR Output 238 MACINA. MAC ETA. its origin in a lake near Ancyra, and, after flowing for■nine distance in a western direction, it turnednorthward, and joined the Rhyndacus a little to thenorth of Miletopolis. (Strab. xii. p. 576; Plin.t. 40.) It seems to be the same river as the onecalled by Polybius Mcgistus (v. 77), though theScholiast on Apollonius Khodius (i. 1162) remarks,that in his time the Rhyndacus itself bore thatname. The lower part of the river now bears thename Sum or Siuut/herli, while the upper part iscalled Simaul-Su. (Hamilton's Rttearche*, vol. iipp. 105, 111.) [L. S.] MA'CETA (MAtera, Nearch. Peripl. p. 22:C. Miizsthhnn), a promontory of Arabia, at the en­trance of the Persian gulf, opposite the promontoryHannozon in Carmuuia. (Strab. xv. p. 726, xvi. p.765.) It was on the coast of the Macae, and is,therefore, called by Strain) (xvi. p. 765) a promon­tory of the Macae, without giving it any specialname. It formed the MV. extremity of the moun­tains of the Asabi, and is, therefore, called by Pto-letnv (vi. 7. § 12), to 'Aaa&xr lutpov. MA'CETAE, MACETIA. [Macedonia.]MACHAERL'S (Mav.a«K>»f: Eth. Max<upfrr/r,Joseph.), a strong fortress of Peraea, first mentionedby Joscphus in connection with Alexander the son ofHyrcanua I., by whom it was originally built. {Ant.xi'ii. 16. § 3; Bell. JiuL vii. 6. § 2.) It was de­livered by his widow to her son Aristobnlus, whofirst fortified it against Gabinius {Ant. xiv. 5. § 2.)to whom he afterwards surrendered it, and by whomit was dismantled (§ 4; Strab. xvi. p. 762). Onhis escape from Home Aristobnlus again attemptedto fortify it; but it was taken after two days' siege(vi. 1). It is however celebrated in the history ofHerod the Tetrarch, and St. John the Baptist. Itwas situated in the mountains of Arabia (vp&j toij'ApaSion Spxriv) (5. § 2), and on the confines ofHerod's jurisdiction and that of Aretas king ofArabia, his father-in-law, but at this time the his­torian expressly states that it belonged to the latter(xviii. 6. § 1.), being the southern extremity ofPeraea, as Pclla was the northern, (fl. J. iii. 3. § 3,iv. 7. § 5.) When Herod's first wife, the dunghUr ofAretas, first suspected her husband's guilty passionfor Herudias, his brother Philip's wife, she dis­sembled her indignation, and requested to be sentto Machaerus, whence she immediately proceeded toPetra, her father's capital. The fact of Machaerusbeing then subject to the jurisdiction of Aretas pre­sents an insuperable difficulty to the reception ofJoseplms's statement that it was the place of St.John the Baptist's martyrdom: for suffering, as hedid in one view, as a martyr for the conjugal rightsof the daughter of Aretas, it is impossible to believethat Herod could have had power to order his exe­cution in that fortress, (xviii. 6. §§ 1, 2.) It heldout against the Romans after the fall of Jerusalem,and the account of its siege and reduction by thelieutenant Lucilius Bassus furnishes us with themost detailed account of this remarkable fortress,which Pliny (v. 15) reckons second to Jerusalemfor the strength of its works. Josephus's accountis as follows. It was situated on a very high bill,ami snrnmnded with a wall, trenched about on allaides with valleys of enormous depth, so as to defyembankments. Its western side was the highest,and on this quarter the valley extended 60 stadia,as far as the Dead Sea. On the north and souththe valleys were not so steep, but still such as torender the fortress unusaailable, and the eastern valley had a depth of 100 cubits. It hid been se­lected by Herod, on account uf its proximity to ttieArabs and the natural advantages of its poaitiou.and he had enclosed a large space within its walls,which was strengthened with towers. Tbia formedthe city: but the summit of the bill was the acro­polis, surrounded with a wall of its own: flankedwith corner towers of 160 cubits in height. In tbemiddle of this was a stately palace, laid out in large andbeautiful chambers, and furnished with numerousreservoirs for preserving the rain water. A shrub ofrue, of portentous size, grew in the palace yard, equalin height and bulk to any fig-tree. A large storeof missiles and military engines was kept there soas to enable its garrison to endure a protractedsiege. Bassus proposed to assail it on the east side.and commenced raising banks in the valley, and th«garrison, having left the city and its inhabitant! totheir fate, betook themselves to the acropolis, fnrawhich they made a succession of spirited salliesagainst the besiegers. In one of these a youthnamed Eleazar, of influential connections, fell intothe hands of the Romans, and the garrison capitu­lated on condition that his lite was spared, and heand they allowed to evacuate the place in safety.A fow of the inhabitants of tbe lower city, thusabandoned, succeeded in effecting their escape: but17O0 males were massacred, and the women aiuichildren sold into captivity. (/?. J. vii. 6.) ltasite has not been recovered in modern times; but itis certainly wrongly placed by Pliny at the Southof the Dead Sea (vii. 16; Reland, t. f. p. 880).The account given by Josephus of the copious hotsprings of bitter and Bweet water, of the sulphnrand alum mines in the valley of Baaras, which heplaces on the north of the city of Machaerus. seemsrather to ]>oint to one of the ruined sites, noticed byIrby and Mangles, to the northern part of tbe DeadSea, in the vicinity of Callirrboe, where these pbae-nomena are still found; but not the peculiarlynoxious tree, of the same name as the valley, whii-hwas deadly to the gatherer, but was a specific againstdaemoniacal possession. [Camjrrikik.] (Irbyand Mangles, TrartU, pp. 464, 465.) [<i. W.] MACHAETE'GI (Maxamryoi; some MSS. rodMaxaytvui, Ptol. iv. 14. § 11), a people of *' Srythia,intra Imaum," near the Iastap- [E. B. J.] MACHELO'NES (MaX«W«, Arrian, PrHpLp. 11; Anon, p. 15), a subdivision of the Olchiantribes situated to the S. of the Phasis. Arjcliialu*.prince of this people, as well as of the Heni<«-lu,submitted to Trajan. (Dion Cass, lxviii. 19: Bitter,Erdhnide. vol. x. p. 116.) [E. B. J.] MA'CHLYES (MdXAwr, Herod, iv. 179; hot.iv. 3. § 26. vnlg. Mayoi/tt), a Libyan people, in theS. of Africa Propria (Byzacena), on the river Triton,and separated by the lake Tritonis from the Loto-phagi, like whom thev fed upon the lotus. (Cosap.Flin.vii. 2.) [P.S.] MACIIU'RES. [Mauietamia.] MAC1HSII [MAtBKTASIA.] MA'CHYNI (Ma*./™.), a people of AfricaPropria, whom Ptolemy places S. of the Liby.Phoenicians, as far as the Leaser Svrtis and theMachi.viw. (Ptol. iv. 3. §§ 22. 26!) TP.S.] MACINA (Maxi^f)), a district of Arabia, men­tioned only by Strabo (xvi. p. 766) as nearestto Babylonia, bounded on the one side by the dearrtof Arabia, on another by the marshes uf the Cbal-daeans, funned by the overflowing of the EuiJirate*.and on a third by the Persian Gulf. Ita climate