OCR Output Chap. IX» ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. '^55 life, the inhabitants of Cesarea and of Sebaste forgot the kind­nesses he had bestowed on them, and acted the part of riie bitter­est enemies ; for they cast such reproaches upon the deceased asare not fit to be spoken of; and so many of them as were thensoldiers, which were a great number, went to his house, and has­tily carried off the statues* of this king's daughters, and all atonce carried them into the brothel-houses, and, when they hartset them on the tops of those houses, they abused them to theutmost of their power, and did such -things to them as are too inf-decent to be related. They also laid themselves down in publicplaces, and celebrated general feastings, with garlands on theirheads, and with ointments and libations to Charon, and drinkingto one another for joy that the king was expired. Nay, theywere not only unmindful of Agrippa, who had extended his li­berality to them in abundance, but of his grandfather Herod also,who had himself rebuilt their cities, and had raised them havensand temples at vast expences. 2. Now Agrippa, the son of the deceased, was at Rome, andbrought up with Claudius' Caesar. And when Caesar was in­formed that Agrippa was dead, and that the inhabitants of Se­baste and Cresarea had abused him, he was sorry for the first news,and was displeased with ihe ingratitude 'of those cities. He wastherefore disposed to send Agrippa junior away presently to suc­ceed his father in the kingdom, and was willing .to confirm himin it by his oath. But those freed-men and friends of his, whohad the greatest authority with him, dissuaded him from it, andsaid, that " it was a dangerous experiment to permit so large a*• kingdom to come under the government of so very young a" man, and one hardly yet arrived at years of discretion, who«' would not be able to take sufficient care of its administration ;" while the 'weight of a kingdom is heavy enough to a grown" man." So Caesar thought what they said to be reasonable.Accordingly he sent Cuspios Fadus to be procurator of Judea,and of the entire kingdom, and paid that respect to the deceased,as not to introduce Marcus, who had been at variance with him,into his kingdom. But he determined, in the first place, to sendorders to Fadus, that he should chastise the inhabitants of Cesa­rea and Sebaste for those abuses they had offered to him that wasdeceased, and their madness towards his daughters that were stillalive ; and that he should remove that body of soldiers that wereat Cesarea and Sebaste, with the five regiments, into Pontus, thatthey might do their military duty there, and that he should chdse U 2 an * Photius, who made an extract out of this section, says, they were not thestatues or images, but the ladies themselves, who were thus basely abused by thesoldiers. Cod. CCXXXV1U.