OCR Output AN. 1071.] 245 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. she told him, he comforted her, and desiredher to be quiet, and to take all patiently,and not to esteem her being corrupted byher brother, as an injury. So she yielded tohis advice, and left off crying out, and disco­vering the force offered her to the multitude.And she continued as a widow,* with herbrother Absalom a long time. When David knew this, he was grieved atthe actions of Amnon. But because he hadan extraordinary affection for him, for he washis eldest son, he was compelled not to af­flict him. But Absalom watched for a conve­nient opportunity of revenging this crime, forhe thoroughly hated him. Now the secondyear after this wicked affair was over, andAbsalom was about to shear his own sheep atBaalhazor, a city in the portion of Ephraim,he besought his father, as well as his bre­thren, to come and feast with him. Butwhen David excused himself, as not beingwilling to be burdensome, Absalom desiredhe would, however, send his brethren, whomhe did send accordingly. Then Absalomcharged his servants, that when they shouldsee Amnon disordered and drowsy with wine,and he should give them a signal, they shouldfear nobody, but kill him. When they had done as they were com­manded, the rest of his brethren were asto­nished and alarmed for themselves. So theyimmediately got on horseback, and rode awayto their father.f But somebody preventedthem, and told their father that they wereall slain by Absalom. Whereupon he wasovercome with sorrow, as for so many of hissons that were destroyed at once, and bythis consideration, that it was their brotherthat appeared to have slain them, he aggra­vated his sorrow for them. So he neitherinquired what was the cause of this slaughter, nor stayed to hear any thing else; which yetit was but reasonable to have done, when sovery great, and by that greatness so in­credible a misfortune was related to him.He rent his clothes, and threw himself uponthe ground, and there lay lamenting the lossof all his sons, both those who as he was in­formed, were slain, and of him that slew them.But Jonadab the son of his brother Shimeah,intreated him not to indulge his sorrow so far;for as to the rest of his sons he did not be­lieve they were slain, for he found no causefor such a suspicion. But he said it mightdeserve inquiry as to Amnon. For it was notunlikely that Absalom might venture to killhim, on account of the injury he had offeredto Tamar. In the mean time a great noiseof horses, and a tumult of some people thatwere coming, excited their attention. Theywere the king's sons who were fled awayfrom the feast. So their father met them,as they were in their grief, and he himselfgrieved with them. But it was more than heexpected to see those his sons again, whomhe had a little before heard to have perished.However, there were tears and groans onboth sides; they lamenting their brother whowas killed, and the king lamenting his son,who was killed also: but Absalom fled toGeshur, to his grandfather,^ by his mother'sside, who was king of that country, and heremained with him three whole years. Now David had a design to send to Ab­salom ;|| not that he should come to bepunished, but that he might be with him. Forthe effects of his anger were abated by lengthof time. It was Joab, the captain of his host,that chiefly persuaded him so to do. For hesuborned a woman that was stricken in age,to go to the king in mourning apparel,§ whosaid to him, that two of her sons had some * 2 Sam. xiii. 20. t 2 Sam. xiii. 29. j 2 Sam. iii. 3. II About an. 1068 B. C. § The art and contrivance of this widow of Tekoah'sspeech is very remarkable. "When the woman of Te-koah spake to the king, she fell on her face to the ground,and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king! And the kingsaid to her, What aileth thee? And she said, I am indeeda widow woman, and my husband is dead, and thy hand­maid had two sons, and the two strove together in the6eld, and there was none to part them, but the one smotethe other, and slew him; and behold this family is risenagainst thy handmaid, and they say, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill him, for the life ofhis brother, whom he slew, and we will destroy the heiralso; and so they shall quench my coal that is left, (i. e.deprive me of the little comfort of my life which remains,and is, as it were, a coal buried in the ashes,) and leaveto my husband neither name nor remainder upon theearth." 2 Sam. xiv. 4, &c. Now the scope of all thisspeech was to frame a case as like to David's as she coulddevise, that by prevailing with him to determine it in herfavour, he might be convinced, how much more reasonableit was to preserve Absalom. But, how plausible soeverthe likeness might be, there was a wide difference be­tween her case and his; for her son, as she pretended,was slain in a scuffle with his brother; whereas Amnon 3A2