OCR Output 2 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. earth. But the proud claim of perpetual and inde- _ feasible dominion, which her soldiers could no longer maintain, was firmly asserted by her statesmen andlawyers, whose opinions have been sometimes revivedand propagated in the modern schools of jurispru­dence. After Rome herself had been stripped of theImperial purple, the princes of Constantinople as­sumed the sole and sacred sceptre of the monarchy;demanded, as their rightful inheritance, the provinceswhich had been subdued by the consuls, or possessedby the Caesars; and feebly aspired to deliver theirfaithful subjects of the West from the usurpation ofheretics and barbarians. The execution of thissplendid design was in some degree reserved forJustinian. During the five first years of his reign,he reluctantly waged a costly and unprofitable waragainst the Persians; till his pride submitted to hisambition, and he purchased, at the price of four hun­dred and forty thousand pounds sterling, the benefitof a precarious truce, which, in the language of bothnations, was dignified with the appellation of theendless peace. The safety of the East enabled theemperor to employ his forces against the Vandals;and the internal state of Africa afforded an honour­able motive, and promised a powerful support, to theRoman arms *.state of the According to the testament of the founder, theHuLric, African kingdom had lineally descended to Hilderic,^53o.523 tne eldest of the Vandal princes. A mild dispositioninclined the son of a tyrant, the grandson of a con­queror, to prefer the counsels of clemency and peace;and his accession was marked by the salutary edict, * The complete series of the Vandal war is related by Procopius in a regularand elegant narrative (1. i. c. 9—25.1. ii. c . 1—13.); and happy would be mylot, could I always tread in the footsteps of such a guide. From the entire anddiligent perusal of the Greek text, I have a right to pronounce that the Latinand French versions of Grotius and Cousin may not be implicitly trusted: yetthe president Cousin has been often praised, and Hugo Grotius was the firstscholar of a learned age.