OCR Output 116 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. was not unmindful of his brother Julian, who ob-XVI' tained the honours of his rank, the appearances ofliberty, and the restitution of an ample patrimony.Spmdenre ^ne wr*ters tn.e most indulgent to the memory ofof Gaiius. Gallus, and even Julian himself, though he wishedto cast a veil over the frailties of his brother, arej obliged to confess that the Caesar was incapable ofreigning. Transported from a prison to a throne,he possessed neither genius nor application, nor do­cility to compensate for the want of knowledge andexperience. A temper naturally morose and violent,instead of being corrected, was soured by solitudeand adversity; the remembrance of what he had en­dured disposed him to retaliation rather than tosympathy; and the ungoverned sallies of his ragewere often fatal to those who approached his person,or were subject to his power *. Qmjst^mjuna^ hiswife, is described, not as woman, but as one of theinfernal furies tormented with an insatiate thirst ofhuman blood. Instead of employing her influenceto insinuate the mild counsels of prudence and hu­manity, she exasperated the fierce passions of herhusband; and as she retained the vanity, though shehad renounced the gentleness of her sex, a pearlnecklace was esteemed an equivalent price for themurder of an innocent and virtuous nobleman. Thecruelty of Gallus was sometimes displayed in the un-dissembled violence of popular or military executions;and was sometimes disguised by the abuse of law,and the forms of judicial proceedings. The privatehouses of Antioch, and the places of public resort,were besieged by spies and informers; and the Caesarhimself, concealed in a plebeian habit, very frequently * See Julian ad S. P. Q. A. p. 271. Je-om. in Chron. Aurelius Victor, Eu.tr'opius, x. 14. I shall copy the words of Eutropius, who wrote his abridgmentabout fifteen years after the death of Gallus, when there was no longer any motiveeither to flatter or to depreciate his character. "Multis incivilibus gestis Gallus "Ca:sar vir natura ferox et ad tyrannidem pronior, si suo jure imperare "licuisset."