OCR Output 224 LYCIA LYCH son of Pandion, being driven liy his brother Acgensfi-um Attica, found a place <if refuge in Milyas, thekingdom of Sarpedou, who now changed the nameof his dominion into Lycia, to honour his friendLycos. (Comp. Strab. xiv. p. 667; and Steph. B.: r. TptuiAT), who states, on the authority of thehistorian Alexander, that Bellerophontes changedthe name of Tn-milae into that of Lycians.) Inlater times the name Milyas still existed, but wasconfined to the northern and more mountainousjxirts of the country, into which the original inha­bitants of the country had been driven by the con­querors, and where tliey were known under thename of the Milyae. [Milyas.] Strabo, in hisdesire to look upon Humer as an infallible authorityin historical and geographical mutters, is inclined todisbelieve the tradition related by Herodotus, asirreconcilable with the poet, who, he conceives,meant by the Solymi no other people than thatwhich in later times bore the name of Milyae.Whatever we may think of the cause of the changeof name from Milyas to Lycia, it is probable that itmust have originated in the conquest of the countryby foreigners, and that this conquest belongs to anearlier date than the composition of the Homericpoems. But although the inhabitants of the countryhad changed their own name, they continued as lateas the time of Herodotus to be called Termilae bytheir neighbours. 2. Phyiical Character of the Country.—All Lyciais a mountainous country, — the range of MountTaurus in the north sending forth numerousbranches to the south, which generally slope downas they approach the sea, and terminate in pro­montories. The principal of these branches are,mounts Daeiiala, Craciis, Massicytes (rising insome parts to a height of 10,000 feet), and Climax.But, notwithstanding its mountainous cluiracter,Lycia was by no means an unfertile country, for itproduced wine, com, and all the other lruits of AsiaMinor; its cedars, firs, and plane trees, were par-ticuLirly celebrated. (Plin. II A*, xii. 5.) Amongthe products peculiar to it, we may mention a par­ticularly soft kind of sponge found near Anti-phellus, and a K|iecies of chalk, which possessedmedicinal properties. Lycia also contained springsof naphtha, which attest its volcanic character; ofwhich other proofs also are mentioned, for, not farfrom the rock called Deliktaih, there is a per|ietualfire issuing from the ground, which is supposed tohave given rise to the story of the Chimaera, but isill reality nothing but a stream of inflammable gasissuing from the crevices of the rocks, as is the casein several parts of the Apennines. Must of therivers of Lycia flow in a southern direction, and themost important of them are the Xantiu'S, in thewest, and tiic Limykis or Aiucanius, in the east.It also has two considerable lakes; one, now calledAvian trttle, ia formed by the confluence of severalrivers, another, in the more northern part, situatedin a hollow among high mountains, it called YauerGule. 3. The InhubitanU if I.ycin.— The most ancientinhabitants of Lycia, as we have seen above, werethe Solymi, who are generally believed to have beena Phoenician or Semitic race We are not informedwhy these Solymi were called Termilae; bat theprobability is that the Solymi and the Termilae ^».two ditfereut tribes occupying different parts 1*ountry at the same time, and that while the tc driven into the northern mountains by the invader", the Termilae were subdued, and re­ceived from their conquerors the name of LycUn*.This seems clearly to follow from the account ofHerodotus and the fragments quoted by StephanuaByzantinus. The Tremilae were no doubt as fbmmto the Hellenic stock of nations as the S>lvmi. 1 i.<-conquerors of the Tremibie, that is the Lyciansproper, are said to have come from Crete, which.before its occupation by the Dorians, was inhabitedby barbarous or non-Hellenic tribes, whence it fallowsthat the conquering Lycians must likewise barebeen barbarians. Their strugeles with the Solymiappear to have lasted long, and to have been T*rysevere, for Bellcrophon and other mythical berwsare described as having fought against the warlikeSolymi. (Horn. //. vi. 184, 204, Od. r. 283.)From the recently discovered Lycian inscriptions,composed in an alphabet partly Greek and l-artlyforeign, it has been inferred that, after the con^uc.:of Lycia by the Persians, the great body of the ra­tion changed its character, at least in some part*,which are supposed to have then been occupiedby Persians; and this theory is believed to derivesupport from the Lycian inscriptions, which Mr.Sharpe and others believe to contain a language akiato the Zend. But this hypothesis is devoid uf allfoundation, for we never find that the Persians colo­nised the countries conquered by them, and the Lycianlanguage is as yet utterly unknown. All we can sayis, that the Lycian alphabet seems to be a variety ofthe Gracco-Phocnician or Graeco-Semitic character,and that there is no evidence to show that in thehistorical ages the Lycians changed their character asa nation. They were and remained barbarians in tl.eGreek sense, though they adopted and practUnl toa great extent the arts and modes of civilised fife,such as they existed among tlieir Greek ceightaora.4. Imtitutions, <j-c. of the Lyciant. — In the Ho­meric poems the Lycians appear as governed bv kinc*(Horn. II. vi. 173 ; Diet, of Uiogr.i. r. Sarpetjox);but in the historical times we find Lycia as a con­federation of free cities, with a constitution motewisely framed perhaps than any other in all ar:i-quity. An authentic account of this ronstitutinhas been preserved by Strabo. It was the pohlirajunity among the towns of Lycia that made thecountry strong, and enabled it to maintain its freedomagainst the encroachments of Croesus, while all thesurrounding nations were comjielled to own hia sway.When and by whom this federal constitution »»sdevised, we arc not informed, but it reflects greatcredit upon the political wisdom of the Lynns.They were a peaceable and well-comlucted people,and took no ]art in the piracy of their maritimeneighbours, but remained faithlul to their ancientinstitutions, and on tins account were allowed theenjoyment of tlieir free constitution by the Romans.It was under the dominion of Hume that Strabo sawits working. The confederacy then consisted of S3towns, from which the deputies met inapUKe fixed cq>4ieach time by common consent. The six largest towns,Xamtul-s,Patara, Pi»ARA,OLTkiri-a,MrKjL,an»lTub, had each three votes at the common diet, lbstowns of more moderate size had two, and the re­maining small places one vote each. The executiveof the confederacy was in the hand of a magistratecalled Lyciareh (Aixrisipxn'), whose elertiia wasthe first business of the congress, and after wheatthe other officers of the cor.feJersry were chosen.The judges, also, as well as the magistrates, wereelected from each city according to the number of