OCR Output NOTES ON THE THIRD CHAPTER. xiii ninus, i. 16, Hist. August, p. 20. 21. Julianin Cæsar. [45] The enemies of Marcus charged him withhypocrisy, and with a want of that simplicitywhich distinguished Pius and even Verus (Hist.Aug. 6. 34J. This suspicion, unjust as it was, mayserve to account for the superior applause bestowedupon personal qualifications, in preference to thesocial virtues. Even Marcus Antoninus has beencalled a hypocrite; but the wildest scepticism neverinsinuated that Cæsar might poslibly be a coward,or Tully a fool. Wit and valour are qualificationsmore easily ascertained, than humanity or the loveof justice, [46] Tacitus has characterized, in a few words, theprinciple of the portico: Doctores sapientiæ secutusest, qui sola bona qux honesta, mala tantum quæturpia; potentiam nobiliratem cæteraque extra ani-mum neque bonis neque malis adnumerant. Tacit.Hist. iv. j. [47] Before he went on the second expeditionagainst the Germans, he read lectures of philosophyto the Roman people, during three days. He hadalready done the fame in the cities of Greece andAsia. Hist. August, in Caflio, c. 3. [48] Dio, 1. lxxi. p. 1190. Hist. August, inAvid. Caflio. [49] Hist. August, in Marc. Antonin. c. 18. [50] Vitellius consumed in mere eating, at leastfix millions of our money, in about seven months.It is not easy to express his vices with dignity, oreven decency. Tacitus fairly calls him a hog; butit is by substituting to a coarse word a very fineimage. "At Vitellius, nrnbraculis hortorum ab-"ditus, ut igt&va stimuli a, qui bus si cibum sug-*' gerasjaceattorpentque, præterita, instantia, fu-"tura, pari oblivione dimiserat. Atque ilium"nemore Aricino dcsidem et marcentem, &c."Tacit. Hist. iii. 36. ii. 95-. Sueton. in Vitell. c. 13.Dio Caflius^ L lxv.' p.. 1062. [51] The execution of Helvidius Priscus, andof the virtuous Eponina, disgraced the reign osVespasian. [52] Voyage de Chardin en Perse, voL iii.p. 293. 6 [5 3 J The practice of raising slaves to the greatoffices of state is still more common among theTurks than among the Persians. The miserablecountries of Georgia and Circaffia supply rulers tothe greatest part of the east. [54] Chardin fays, that European travellers havediffused among the Persians some ideas of the free­dom and mildness of our government. Theyhave done them a very ill office. [55] They alleged the example of Scipio andCato. (Tacit. Annal. iii. 66.) Marcellus Epriusand Crifpus Vibius had acquired two millions anda half under Nero. Their wealth, which aggravatedtheir crimes, protected them under Vespasian. SecTacit. Hist. iv. 43. Dialog, de Orator, c. 8.For one accusation, Regulus, the just object ofPliny's satire, received from the senate the consularornaments, and a present of sixty thousand pounds. [56] The crime of majtsty was formerly a trea­sonable offence against the Roman people. As tri­bunes of the people, Augustus and Tiberius ap­plied it to their own persons, and extended it to aninfinite latitude. [57] After the virtuous and unfortunate widowof Germanicus had been put to death, Tiberius-received the thanks of the senate for his clemency.She had not been publickly strangled; nor was thebody drawn with a hook to the Gemoniæ, wherethose of common malefactors were exposed. SeeTacit. Annal. vi. 25. Sueton. in Tiberio, c. 53, [58] Seriphus was a small rocky island in theÆgean Sea, the inhabitants of which were despisedfor their ignorance and obscurity. The place ofOvid's exile is well known, by his just, but un­manly lamentations. It should seem, that he onlyreceived an order to leave Rome in so many days,and to transport himself to TOmi. Guards andgaolers were unnecessary. [59] Under Tiberius, a Roman knight at­tempted to fly to the Parthians. He was stopt inthe Streights of t>icily;. but so little danger didthere appear in the example, that the most jealousof tyrants disdained to punisli it. Tacit. Annal.vi. 14. [60] Cicero ad Familiares, iv. 7. NOTES.