OCR Output fc, II. ' YEAR II. BEFORE DCHRIST 430. in the island Zacynthus which lies over-against Elis. Theyare a colony of the Achaeans of Peloponnesus, and werethen in league with the Athenians. On board this fleetwere a thousand heavy-anryed Lacedaemonians; and Cne-mus the Spartan commanded in the expedition. Making adescent upon the island they ravaged great part of the coun­try,—but finding the entire reduction of it impracticable, theyre-embarked and returned home. In the close of the same summer, Aristeus the Corinthian,Aneristus, Nicolaus, Protodemus, and Timagoras of Tegea,ambassadors from the Lacedaemonians, and Polis the Ar-give without any public character, travelling into Asia, toengage the Persian king to supply them with men andmoney for carrying on the war, on their journey stop firstin Thrace, and address themselves to Sitalces the son ofTeres. They had a mind to try if they could prevail uponhim to quit the Athenian alliance, to march to the relief ofPotidaea, now besieged by the Athenians, to desist for thefuture from giving the latter any assistance, and to obtainfrom him a safe conduct through his territory for the con­tinuance of their journey beyond the Hellespont to Phar-naces son of Pharnabazus, who would afterwards conductthem in safety to the royal court. Learchus the son ofCallimachus, and Ameiniadas the son of Philemon, happen­ing at that time to be with Sitalces, on an embassy fromAthens, persuade the son of Sitalces, who had been made acitizen of Athens, to seize and deliver them up to them,that they might not go fonvard to the king, to the prejudiceof that community of which he was a member. He hearken­ing to their advice arrests them just as they were going onshipboard to cross the Hellespont, after they had travelledthrough Thrace to the spot marked for their embarkation.He executed this by means of some trusty persons dispatchedpurposely after them along with Learchus and Ameiniades,and expressly ordered to deliver them up to the latter:They, so soon as they had got them in their power, carriedthem to Athens. Upon their arrival there, the Athenians