OCR Output 272 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. them, and shut up a great number of them in the citadel. NowMarcus Antonius, their leader, signalised himself in this battle,who, as he always shewed great courage, so did he never shew itso much as now ; but Gabinius, leaving forces to take the cita­del, went away himself, and settled the cities that had not beendemolished, and rebuilt those that had been destroyed. Accord­ingly, upon his injunctions, the following cities were restored.Scythopolis, and Samaria, and Anthedon, and Appolinia, and Ja-minia, and Raphia, and Marissa, and Adoreus, and Gamala,and Ashdod, and many others; while a great number of menreadily ran to each of them, and became their inhabitants. 5. When Gabinius had taken care of these cities, he returnedto Alexandrium, and pressed on the siege. So when Alexanderdespaired of ever obtaining the government, he sent ambassadorsto him, and prayed him to forgive what he had offended him in,and gave up to him the remaining fortresses, Hyrcaniutn, andMacheras, as he put Alexandrium into his hands afterwards : allwhich Gabinius demolished, atthe persuasion of Alexander's mo.ther, that they might not be receptacles of men in a second war.She was now there in order to mollify Gabinius, out of her con­cern for her relations that were captives at Rome, which wereher husband and her other children. After this Gabinius broughtHyrcanus to Jerusalem, and committed the care of the temple tohim ; but ordained the other political government to be by anaristocracy. He also parted the whole nation into five conven­tions, assigning one portion to Jerusalem, another to Gadara, thatanother should belong to Amathus, a fourth to Jericho, and tothe fifth division was allotted Sepphoris, a city of Galilee. Sothe people were glad to be thus freed from monarchical govern­ment, and were governed for the future by an aristocracy. 6. Yet did Aristobulus afford another foundation for newdisturbances. He fled away from Rome, and got together againmany of the Jews that were desirous of a change, such as hadborne an affection to him of old ; and when he had taken Alex­andrium in the first place, he attempted to build a wall about it;but as soon as Gabinius had sent an army against him under Si-senna, and Antonius, and Servilius, he was aware of it, and re­treated to Macherus. And as' for the unprofitable multitude, hedismissed them, and only marched on. with those that were arm­ed, being to the number of eight thousand, among whom was Pi-tholaus, who had been the lieutenant at Jerusalem, but desertedto Aristobulus with a thousand of his men : so the Romans fol-Jowed him, and when it came to a battle, Aristobulus's party fora long time fought courageously;' but at length they were over­borne by the Romans, and of them five thousand fell down dead, and