OCR Output 312 ROMAN EMPIRE. achieved in ten years by himself or his lieutenants. TheArab continued to unite the professions of a merchantand a robber; and his petty excursions for the defenceor the attack of a caravan, insensibly prepared his troopsfor the conquest of Arabia. The distribution of thespoil was regulated by a divine law:' the whole wasfaithfully collected in one common mass: a fifth of thegold and silver, the prisoners and cattle, the moveablesand immoveables, was reserved by the prophet for piotisand charitable uses j the remainder was shared in ade­quate portions, by the soldiers who had obtained thevictory or guarded the camp; the rewards of the slaindevolved to their widows and orphans; and the increaseof cavalry was encouraged by the allotment of a doubleshare to the horse and to the man. From all sides theroving Arabs were allured to the standard of religionand plunder: the apostle sanctified the licence of em­bracing the female captives as their wives or concubines;and the enjoyment of wealth and beauty was a feebletype of the joys of paradise prepared for the valiantmartyrs of the faith. The sword (says Mahomet) is thekey of heaven and of hell; a drop of blood shed in thecause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail thantwo months of fasting or prayer: whoever falls in battle,his sins are forgiven: at the day of judgment his woundsshall be resplendent as vermilion and odoriferous as musk;and the loss of his limbs shall be supplied by the wings ofangels and cherubim. The intrepid souls of the Arabswere fired with enthusiasm: the picture of the invisibleworld was strongly painted on their imagination; andthe death which they had always despised became anobject of hope and desire. The Koran inculcates, in themost absolute sense, the tenets of fate and pedestination, with a large white standard, a black banner, (p. 335.) twenty horses, (p. 322.) &c.Two of his martial sayings are recorded by tradition. (Gagnier, torn. 2. 1 The whole subject de jure belli Mohammedanorum, is exhausted in a separatedissertation by the learned Reland. (Dissertationes Miscellanea!, torn. 3. Dissert.