OCR Output ,THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 767. made out for the veterans, and their money to beforthwith discharged. XXXVIII. Meanwhile a party of veterans belonging3o the legions lately in commotion, but at that time stationed in the territory of the Chajicians, discoveredthe same spirit of disaffection; but the firmness ofMennius, the prefect of the camp, suppressed themischief in its birth. He ordered two of the ringleadersto be seized, and put to death; au act of severity notstrictly legal, but in some degree justified by necessi足ty. He was obliged, however, to seek his safety byflight. The soldiers pursued him. Being detected inbis lurking-placs, he resolved, to face his enemies,and depend upon his own bravery. "It is not," hesaid, " against me, the prsefect of the camp, that this" outrage is committed; it is treachery to Germani-"cus; it is treason to the emperor." The leaders ofthe mutiny were struck with terror. In that momenthe seized the standard, and turning towards the river,declared, in a peremptory tone, that whoever quittedhis rank should surfer as a deserter. The whole bodymarched into winter quarters, murmuring discontent,but not daring to disobey. XXXIX. During these transactions, the deputies ofthe senate met Germanicus at the Ubian altar, on hisreturn from the Upper Rhine. Two legions, the firstand twentieth, were stationed at that place in winterquarters; and, with them, the veterans lately ap足pointed to follow the colours. To minds in their con足dition, fluctuating between fear and conscious guilt,every circumstance was a new alarm. The deputiesthey were sure, came with instructions to revoke andcancel the terms which violence had extorted. Thecredulity of the common people never works byhalves; they believe without proof, and soon find theauthor of what never happened. Munatius Plancus,a senator of consular rank, and a principal person inthe embassy, was named as the framer of a decree,that never existed but in the imagination of the sol足diers. In the dead of the night they rushed in a bodyto the head quarters of Germanicus, demanding, with