OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. dined, by injuries, benefits, and promises ; and tbe inter­pretation of voluntary contracts and testaments, whichare often dictated by fraud or ignorance, affords a longand laborious exercise to the sagacity of the judge. Thebusiness of life is multiplied by the extent of commerceand dominion, and the residence of the parties in the dis­tant provinces of an empire, is productive of doubt, de­lay, and inevitable appeals from the local to the suprememagistrate. Justinian, the Greek emperor of Constan­tinople and the east, was the legal successor of the Latianshepherd who had planted a colony on the banks ofthe Tiber. In a period of thirteen hundred years, thelaws had reluctantly followed the changes of governmentand manners: and the laudable desire of conciliatingancient names with recent institutions, destroyed theharmony, and swelled the magnitude, of the obscure andirregular system. The laws which excuse on any occa­sions the ignorance of their subjects, confess their ownimperfections; the civil jurisprudence, as it was abridgedby Justinian, still continued a mysterious science and aprofitable trade, and the innate perplexity of the studywas involved in tenfold darkness by the private industryof the practitioners. The expense of the pursuit some­times exceeded the value of the prize, and the fairestrights were abandoned by the poverty or prudence of theclaimants. Such costly justice might tend to abate thespirit of litigation, but the unequal pressure serves onlyto increase the influence of the rich, and to aggravatethe misery of the poor. By these dilatory and expensiveproceedings, the wealthy pleader obtains a more certainadvantage than he could hope from the accidental cor­ruption of his judge. The experience of an abuse, fromwhich our own age and country are not perfectly exempt,may sometimes provoke a generous indignation, and ex­tort the hasty wish of exchanging our elaborate jurispru­dence for the simple and summary decrees of a Turkishcadhi. Our calmer reflection will suggest, that suchvol. v. 2 D