OCR Output 1003 SIXOIUA. source of revenue, which maintained the city in atolerable state of prosperity. It possessed ex­tensive suburbs, and numerous villas in its vicinity(Strab. I. c.; Plin. vi. 2). From Pliny's letter's(x. 91), it appears that the Sinopians suffered someinconvenience from the want of a good supply ofwater, which Pliny endeavoured to remedy by agrant from the emperor Trajan to build an aqueductconveying water from 21 distance of 1G miles. Inthe time of Arrian and Marcian, Sinope still con­tinued te he a flourishing town. In the middle agesit belonged to the empire of Trehizond, and fell intothe hands of the l urks in A. D. 1470, in the reignof Mohammed II. Sinope is also remarkable as thebirthplace of several men of eminence, inch asDiogenes the Cynic, Baton, the historian of Persia,and Dipbiliuifthe comic poet. Near Sinope was a small island, called Scopelua,around which large vessels were obliged to sail, be­fore they could enter the harbour; but small craftmight pass between it and the land, by which meansa circuit of 40 stadia was avoided (Marcian, p. 72,Ac.) The celebrated Sinopian cinnabar (3iwwurifr[a'iKtos. Sirui^ls or XivwirtKrj *yt/) was not a productof the district of Sinope, but was designated by thisname only because it formed one of the chief articlesof trade at Sinope. (Groskurd on >Strabo, vol. ii.p. 407, foil.) The imperial coins of Sinope that areknown, extend from Augustus to Gallienns. (Sestini,Num. Yet. p. 63; Kasehe, Leu: Num. iv. 2. p. 1103,foil.) Sinope, now called Stvab, is still a town of someimportance, but it contains only few remains of itsformer magnificence. The wall across the isthmushas been built up with fragments of ancient archi­tecture, such as columns, architraves, &c, and thesame is found in several other parts of the moderntown; but no distinct ruins of its temples, porticoes,or even of the great aqueduct, are to be seen. (Ha­milton. Researches, toL i. p. 306, &c.) [L S.]SINO'KIA (Siropi'a, Strab. xii. p. 555), a townon the frontier of Armenia Major, a circumstancewhich gave rise to a pun of the historian Theophancswho wrote the name 2w6pta. The place is nodoubt the same as the one called Sinorega by Appian(Mithrid. 101), by Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 7)Synhorium, by Ptolemy (v. 7. § 2) Sinibra or Sinera,and in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 208) Sinervas.The pun upon the name made by Theoplmnes seemsto show that the form Sinoria, which Strabo gives, isthe correct one. The town was a fortress built byMitlnidates on the frontier between Greater andLesser Armenia; but assuming that all the differentnames mentioned above are only varieties or corrup­tions of one, it is not easy to fix the exact site ofthe town, for Ptolemy and the Antonine Itineraryplace it to the south-west of Satala. on the roadfrom this town to Melitene, and on the Euphrates,while the Table, calling it Sinara, places it 79 milesto the north-east of Satala, on the frontiers of Pontus;but there can be no doubt that the Sinara of theTable is altogether a different place from Sinoria,and the site of tiic latter place must be sought onthe b:mks of the Euphrates between Satala andMelitene, whence some identify it with Murad Chaiand others with Sent Bdi [LSI SINOTIUM. [Synodium.] SINSII (2iWi0f, Ptol. iii. 8. § 5), a people in theS. ofDacia. [ T. H. I) ] SIN ri (Thuc.ii. 98; Steph.B. «.«.; Liv. xlii.51),a Thracian tribe who occupied the district lying between tbe ridge caW. bank of tbe Strycourse of that river, SlNTICE (StfTlKT), Macedonia was dividKoman conquest, Sintin the First Macedonicapital (Liv. xlv. 29]Hkkaci.eia, Paroe<SINTIES. [Lk.mSINUESSA (2i«voveaorjvos, SinuessiLatium, in the moresituated on the Tyrrlthe mouth of the Vdthe Via Appia, and 1great highroad touchp. 233.) It is cerUcient city: indeed tbof an Italian town onof the Roman colonytion an obscure tradbeen a Greek city (Sinope; but little vstatement. (Liv. xcertain that if it e1appeared, and the siof the Ausonian citydetermined to establinies of Mintumae aisea. (Liv. x. 21.)derived, according tcthe spacious gulf (Gaeta. (Strab. v. |blishing these colonicsecuring the neighbfrom the ravages ofrepeatedly overrun treason the plebeiansnames, and there wajing out the colony,the following year,Pat. i. 14.) Sinuesjinto a place of im[severely ravaged bycavalry carried theigates of the town,quently endeavoured,other "coloniae martion from furnishingoverruled, while therin Italy. (Id. xxvii191) they again atticess, to procure a sinservice. (Id. xxxvi.Way doubtless conperity of Sinuessa; Iquently incidentallylearn that Caes-ar hway from Brundusiuad Att. is. 15, 16, Jnoticed also by Honsium, as the place 1Varius and Virgil,of its territory, andridge of the Mons Ma'must also have tendtSinuessa, but we liesEmpire. It receive"apparently under tl237), but did not rel