OCR Output rAXDION.sag PANDOVI IiEGKj. ru alad a Ute Tyrrhenian sea, l»int off theiai/•/" 'i. *ari» opposite to the month of thei-. (Plin. iii. 6. a. 12; Strab. ii. p. 123;hk, a. 7. § 18; PtoL iii. 1. § 79.) Slrabo mvsi » 230 stadia from the mainland, which is justMl tin mill (v. p. 233). He oils it a smallibsi. but well peopled. It was not unfrequently. « ■(, i» well as the neighbouring Pontia, as\m i stiasm& for state prisoners or political; ti.e-c may be mentioned Julia, the■vita ; Augustus, Agrippina, the widow ofbuaita, ud Octatia, the first wife of Nero, of.-. tit two last were put to death in the island.h im. i. 53, xir. 63; Suet. Tib. 53.) Pan-■n a ibnt midway between Pontia (Ponza)a . iria (ltdaa); it is of volcanic origin, like•jnsfWtlx Ami IiUmtU, to which it is some-is t auieied as belonging; and dues not exceed■an d length. Yarro notices it as frequented,i< ■ ■ i«nnti<; islands of Pontia and Palmaria,i« 11 i quits and tartle-doTea in their annual(Vsrr. «. R. iii. 5. § 7.) [E. H. B.]rAMO.Y, ■ headland in the south-west ofta. fj.«te the island of Syme. (Pomp. Mela,i' Pan; (r. 29) mentions on the same spot aU uwi /j- ... a. or according to another read-| hrrtaj. [L. S.] >■•">!A (nuiaeria: £tA- no»Joo-7wj). 1.■7 a finitiiinn, sitnaUd near the frontiers of■a Mnln describes it as a little abort Con-•* lilt precise sense of which expression is farB dtsr (Sunb. ri. p. 256); but Livy calls itte-j.-fttnn Locanis ac Uruttiis finibus." (Lir.p*) Acoarding to Strabo it was originally antea: tm-Q, and was even, at one time, thep«f tat Oeoutrian kings (Strah. /. c); but it■ to awe eertainly received a Greek colony, asP> "'pntaiy enumerates it among the Greek!•< lass part of Italy, and Scymnus Chius,IP perhaps less distinctly, asserts the same • i=wri- p. 4. § 12; Scymn. Ch. 326.) Jt'p '± ij s colony of Crotona; though the state­s' « Ltaebitu, who represents it as founded in * ' .Tear with Metapontum, would lead us to9 x ts as independent and separate colony.Ik ana. Cirva. p. 99.) But the date assi gnedw> «i a, c 774 seems certainly inadmissible, wrca.] But whether originally an in-tsulsMnt or not, it must have been a7 <t Crotona during the period of great-city, and hence we never find its nameuna: the cities of Magna Grace ia. Itscelebrity arises from its being thesav akick Alexander, king of Epirus, wasIbsBkwah the Bruttians, B. c. 326. ThatK tern irarned by an oracle to avoid•* at mAmtuti this as referring to the« uut tvat in Thesprutia, on the banks ofsarin, sad vu ignorant of the existence of■ its i r.ver of the same names in Italy.•• e- 256; Lit. viii. 24 ; Justin, xii. 2;11. s. 15.) The name of I'andosia is againwi Livy (nix. 38) in the Second Punicuw Brattian towns retaken by the-^precras, in n. c 204; and it is therewith Conaentia, as opposed to the■»« civitatea." It was therefore at» Will l aha of some consequence; and P" aaary that it still existed in hist-«.). but we find no subsequent trace■> freit difficulty in determining its position. It is described as a strong fortress, situ­ated on a hill, which had three peaks, whence it wascalled in the oracle narrWt'a rputdkuvoi (Strab,I. c.) In addition to the vague statements ofStrabo and Livy above cited, it is enumerated byScymnus Chius between Crotona and Thurii. Butit was clearly an inland town, and must probablyhave stood in the mountains between Consentia andThurii, though its exact site cannot be determined,and those assigned by local topographers are purelyconjectural. The proximity of the river Achennaffords us no assistance, as this was evidently aninconsiderable stream, the name of which is notmentioned on any other occasion, and which, there­fore, cannot be identified. Much confusion has arisen between the P.niitiPandosia and a town of the same name in Lucania(No. 2,); and some writers have even consideredthis last as the place where Alexander perished.(Romanelli, vol. i. pp. 261—263). It is true thatTheopumpus (ap. Plin. iii. 11. s. 15), in speakingof that event, described Pandosia as a city of theLucanians, but this is a very natural error, as itwas, in fact, near the boundaries of the two nations(Lir. viii. 24), and the passages of Livy (xxix. 38)and Strabo can leave no doubt that it was reallysituated in the land of the Bruttians. 2. A town of Lucania, situated near Heraclea.It lias often been confounded with the preceding;but the distinct existence of a Lucanian town of tiiename is clearly established by two authorities. Plu­tarch describes Pyrrhus as encamping in the plainbetween Pandosia and Heraclea, with the river Sirisin front of him (Plut. Pyrrh. 16); and the cele­brated Tabulae Heracleenscs repeatedly refer to tinsexistence of a town of the name in the immediateneighbourhood of Heraclea. (Mazocchi, Tab. //<-racl. p. 104.) From these notices we may inferthat it was situated at a very short distance fromHeraclea, but apparently further inland; and its sitehas been fixed with some probability at a spot culledSta Maria of Anghma, about 7 miles from the sen,and 4 from Heraclea. Anglona was an episcopalsee down to a late period of the middle ages, but isnow wholly deserted. (Mazocchi, 1 c. pp. 104, 105;Komanelli, vol. i. p. 265.) [E. II. B.] PANDO'SIA (n<x/4Wia: Elk. riaxoWieiij). anancient colony of Elis (Dem. llalonne*. p. 84, Keiske),and a town of the Cassopaei in the district of Thes-protia in Epirus, situated upon the river Acheron.It is probably represented by the rocky height ofKastri, on the summit of which are the walls of anacropolis, while those of the city descend the slopeson either side. (Strab. vii. p. 324; Liv. viii. 24;Justin, xii. 2; Plin. iv. 1 ; Steph. B. ». r. j Leake,Xorthern Greece, vol. iv. p. 55.) COIN OF PANDOSIA. PAXDOVI REGI0 (IliU-aaHiu x»Va. Ptol- »»•1. § 11), a district at the southern extremity of thePeninsula of Ilindostan. The name is in someeditions tlavStovot. but there is every probabilitythat the above (which was suggested by Erasmus)is the true reading. There is another district of thesame name which is placed by Ptolemy in the Pan­