OCR Output book I. 307 Ttft months being called the ordinary consuls, and giving their name to ggthe year. Cf. Die. Ant., Consul. The ordinary consuls for this yearwere Galba and Vinius. Cf. 1. But they being slain on the 15thof January, Otho and his brother were substituted (suffecti) to fill uptheir time to the 1st of March. , ^ 33. Praetexto exhibits the reason alleged by Otho. Cf. 76, note. 34r. Viennensium, to whom, therefore, wo infer that Vopiscusbelonged, though the author nowhere states the fact. Cf. Essay, p. 18. 36. SaMnis attaches to both Caelio and Flavio, who had the samecognomen (cf. note, A. 4), and together with them is dat. after man-eere. Flavius Sabinus, consul elect, is a different man from FlaviusSabinus, brother of Vespasian, who was prefect of the city. Cf. 47,and 2, 55, with which compare 2, 36. Or.—Julias and Septembresagree with kalendas understood. Cf. 12.—Arrio Antonino. Mentionedby Pliny as a writer of verses in Greek and Latin. Cf. Epis. 4, 3.18. 5, 10. He was grandfather of Antoninus Pius the emperor. Or.For a synoptical view of the consulships for this year, see the table, p. 26. 38. Poutificatus auguratusque. Acc. pi. in apposition withcumulum dignitatis. In the age of the emperors, the number ofaugurs and pontifices was indefinite, and the offices were conferred bythe emperors on whom they pleased, but particularly on those whohad already borne the highest civil honors. Though they had lostmuch of their pristine sanctity and power, still both the pontificateand the augurship were highly esteemed. The emperor himself wasalways pontifex maximus. For the etymology of the word, and fur­ther details, see Die. Gr. and Rom. Antiq., sub voce. 1 • Honoratis .... senibus. Any aged man who had already ggbeen honored with the consulship and the like civil offices, but had notreceived the sacred offices of pontifex and augur. Wr. restricts itneedlessly to those just mentioned, Caelius, Flavius, &c.—Aut dis­tinguishes between the treatment of the senibus on the one hand,and the adolesceniulos on the other. Cf. note on aut, A. 17. Thecommon editions have et. 3. Recolult. Iterum honoravit, vel iisdem, quibus avi ae patresfuerant ornati. Rup. Dod. makes sacerdotiis dative after recoluit,which he renders, restored to. And this construction seems to bejustified by such passages as 3, 7: recoli imagines Galbae jussit.Sacerdotium includes both the pontiftcate and the augurship.—CadioRufo. Cf. Ann. 12,22. 5. Repetundarum. Repetundae, or in full pecuniae repetundae,denotes—1. Such sums of money as provinces or individuals mightrecover from Roman magistrates, who had improperly received themoney in the discharge of any official function; 2. The illegal actfor which compensation was claimed. Here render: extortion, whichiB implied in avaritia, in the next clause. Cf. Fiske's Man. P. 3.263