OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. X the streets: a general persecution is exercised againstour name and colour. Let us die, O emperor! but letus die by your command, and for your service!" Butthe repetition of partial and passionate invectives de­graded, in their eyes, the majesty of the purple; theyrenounced allegiance to the prince who refused justice tohis people; lamented that the father of Justinian hadbeen born; and branded his son with the opprobriousnames of a homicide, an ass, and a perjured tyrant."Do you despise your lives?" cried the indignant mo­narch: the blues rose with fury from their seats; theirhostile clamours thundered in the hippodrome; and theiradversaries, deserting the unequal contest, spread terrorand despair through the streets of Constantinople. Atthis dangerous moment, seven notorious assassins ofboth factions, who had been condemned by the prefect,were carried round the city, and afterward transportedto the place of execution in the suburb of Pera. Fourwere immediately beheaded; a fifth was hanged: butwhen the same punishment was inflicted on the remain­ing two, the rope broke, they fell alive to the ground,the populace applauded their escape, and the monks ofSt. Conon, issuing from the neighbouring convent, con­veyed them in a boat to the sanctuary of the church.*As one of these criminals was of the blue, and the otherof the green livery, the two factions were equally pro­voked by the cruelty of their oppressor, or the ingratitudeof their patron ; and a short truce was concluded till theyhad delivered their prisoners, and satisfied their revenge.The palace of the prefect, who withstood the seditioustorrent, was instantly burnt, his officers and guards weremassacred, the prisons were forced open, and freedomwas restored to those who could only use it for the pub­lic destruction. A military force, which had been dis­patched to the aid of the civil magistrate, was fiercelyencountered by an armed multitude, whose numbers e See this church and monastery in Dacange, C P. Christiana, lib. 4. p. 182.