OCR Output 28 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEN'S. Book IX. of the rebuilding the temple, he used this stratagem for collect­ing the money, with which the multitude was pleased. He madea wooden chest, and closed it up fast on all sides, but opened onehole in it; he then set it in the temple beside the altar, and de­sired every one to cast into it, through the hole, what he pleased,for the repair of the temple. This contrivance was acceptableto the people, and they strove one with another, and brought injointly large quantities of silver and gold: and when the scribeand the priest that were over the treasuries had emptied thechest, and counted the money in the king's presence, they thenset it in its former place, and thus did they every day. Butwhen the multitude appeared to have cast in as much as waswanted, the high priest Jehoiada, and king Jehoash, sent to hiremasons and carpenters, and to buy large pieces of timber, andof the most curious sort, and when they had repaired the tem­ple, they made use of the remaining gold and silver, which wasnot a little, for bowls, and basons, and cups, and other vessels,and they went on to make the altar every day fat with sacrificesof great value. And these things were taken suitable care of,as long as Jehoiada Jived. 3. But as soon as he was dead, which was when he had livedone hundred and thirty years, having been a righteous, nnd inevery respect, a very good man, he was buried in the king's se­pulchre at Jerusalem, (because he had recovered the kingdom tothe family of David), king Jehoash betrayed his [want of] careabout God. The principal men of the people were corruptedalso together with him, and offended against their duty, and whattheir constitution determined to be most for their good. Here­upon God was displeased with the change that was made on theking, and on the rest of the people; and sent prophets to testifyto them what their actions were, and to bring them to leave offtheir wickedness: but they had gotten such a strong affection,and so violent an inclination to it, that neither could the exam­ples of those that had offered affronts to the laws, and hadbeen so severely punished, they and their entire families, norcould the fear of what the prophets now foretold, bring them torepentance, and turn them back from their course of transgres­sion, to their former duty. But the king commanded that Za-chariah, the son of the high priest Jehoiada, should be stoned todeath in the temple, and forgot the kindnesses he had receivedfrom his father; for when God had appointed him to prophesy,he stood in the midst of the multitude, and gave this counsel tothem and to the king, that they should act righteously, and fore­told to them, that if they would not hearken to his admonitions,they should suffer a heavy punishment: But as Zachariah wasready to die, he appealed to God, as a witness of what he suffer-