OCR Output 254 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. This temper of his, not disposing him to meddle with publicaffairs, and want of spirit, occasioned him to appear to specta­tors to be degenerous and unmanly; while Aristobulus was of acontrary temper, an active man, and one of a great and gener­ous soul. 4. Since therefore Antipater saw that Hyrcanus did not attendto what he said, he never ceased, day by day, to charge feignedcrimes upon Aristobulus, and to calumniate him before him, asif he had a mind to kill him, and so, by urging him perpetually,he advised him, and persuaded him to fly to Aretas, the kingof Arabia, and promised, that if he would comply with his ad­vice, he would also himself assist him, [and go with him.] WhenHyrcanus heard this, he said that it was for his advantageto fly away to Aretas. Now Arabia is a country that bordersupon Judea. However, Hyrcanus sent Antipater first to theking of Arabia, in order to receive assurances from him, thatwhen he should come in the manner of a supplicant to him, hewould not deliver him up to his enemies. So Antipater havingreceived such assurances, returned to Hyrcanus to Jerusalem.A while afterward he took Hyrcanus, and stole out of the cityby night, and went a great journey, and came and brought himto the city called Petra, where the palace of Aretas was; andas he was a very familiar friend of that king's he persuadedhim to bring buck Hyrcanus into Judea, and his persuasionhe continued every day without any intermission. He also pro­posed to make him presents on that account. At length he pre­vailed with Aretas in his suit. Moreover, Hyrcanus promisedhim, that when he had been brought thither, and had receivedhis kingdom, he would restore that country, and those twelvecities which his father Alexander had taken from the Arabians,which were these, Medaba, Naballo, Libias, Tharabasa, Agala,Athene, Zoar, Orone, Marissa, Rudda, Lussa, and Oruba. CHAP. II. How Aretas and Hyrcanus made an expedition against Aristobu­lus, and besieged Jerusalem-; and houi Scaitrus, the Roman ge­neral, raised the siege. Concerning the death of Onias. § 1. A FTER these promises had been given to Aretas, hemade an expedition against Aristobulus, with an army of fiftythousand horse and foot, and beat him in the battle. Andwhen after that victory many went over to Hyrcanus as desert­ers, Aristobulus was left desolate, and fled to Jerusalem; uponwhich the king of Arabia took all his army and made an assaultupon the temple, and besieged Aristobulus therein, the peo­