OCR Output 420 the decline and fall the inhabitants of the dependant districts. They were surrounded and taken byassault; but Tarsus was reduced by the slow progress of famine; and no soonerhad the Saracens yielded on honourable terms, than they were mortified by thedistant and unprofitable view of the naval succours of Egypt. They were dis­missed with a safe conduct to the confines of Syria; a part of the old Christianshad quietly lived under their dominion, and the vacant habitations were reple­nished by a new colony. But the moscli was converted into a stable; the pulpitwas delivered to the flames; many rich crosses of gold and gems, the spoils ofAsiatic churches, were made a grateful offering to the piety or avarice of the em­peror; and he transported the gates of Mopsuestia and Tarsus, which were fixedin the wall of Constantinople, an eternal monument of his victory. After theyhad forced and secured the narrow passes of mount Amanus, the two Romanprinces repeatedly carried their arms into the heart of Syria. Yet instead of as­saulting the walls of Antioch, the humanity or superstition of Nicephorus appearedto respect the ancient metropolis of the east: he contented himself with drawinground the city a line of circumvallation; left a stationary army; and instructed hislieutenant to expect, without impatience, the return of spring. But in the depthof winter, in a dark and rainy night, an adventurous subaltern, with three hun­dred soldiers, approached the rampart, applied his scaliug-ladders, occupied twoadjacent towers, stood firm against the pressure of multitudes, and bravely main­tained his post till he was relieved by the tardy, though effectual support of hisreluctant chief. The first tumult of slaughter and rapine subsided; the reign ofCaesar and of Christ was restored; and the efforts of a hundred thousand Saracens,and of the armies of Syria and the fleets of Africa, were consumed without effectbefore the walls of Antioch. The royal city of Aleppo was subject to Seifeddow-lat, of the dynasty of Hamaden, who clouded his past, glory by the precipitate re­treat which abandoned his kingdom and capital to the Roman invaders. In hisstately palace, that stood without the walls of Aleppo, they joyfully seized a well-furnished magazine of arms, a stable of fourteen hundred mules, and three hun­dred bags of silver and gold. But the walls of the city withstood the strokes oftheir battering rams: and the besiegers pitched their tents on the neighbouringmountain of Jaushan. Their retreat exasperated the quarrel of the townsmen andmercenaries; the guard of the gates and ramparts was deserted; and, while theyfuriously charged each other in the market place, they were surprised and de­stroyed by the sword of a common enemy. The male sex was exterminated bythe sword: ten thousand youths were led into captivity: the weight of the preciousspoil exceeded the strength and number of the beasts of burden; the superfluousremainder was burnt: and, after a licentious possession of ten days, the Bo-mans marched away from the naked and bleeding city. In their Syrian inroads,they commanded the husbandmen to cultivate their lands, that they themselves,the ensuing season, might reap the benefit; more than a hundred cities were re­duced to obedience; and eighteen pulpits of the principal moschs were committedto the flames, to expiate the sacrilege of the disciples of Mahomet. The classicnames of Hierapolis, Apamea, and Emesa, revive for a moment in the list of con­quest; the emperor Zimices encamped in the paradise of Damascus, and acceptedthe ransom of a submissive people; and the torrent was only stopped by the im­pregnable fortress of Tripoli, on the sea-coast of Phoenicia. Since the days ofHeraclius, the Euphrates, below the passage of mount Taurus, had been imper­vious, and almost invincible, to the Greeks. The river yielded a free passage tothe victorious Zimisces: and the historian may imitate the speed with which heoverran the once famous cities of Samosata, Edessa, Martyropolis, Amida,(l) andNisibis, the ancient limit of the empire in the neighbourhood of the Tigris. Hisardour was quickened by the desire of grasping the virgin treasures of Ecbata-na,(2) a well-known name, under which the Byzantine writer has concealed the (Wesseling.Ilinerav.p.580.), Yet I cannot credit (his extreme popnlousness a few years after the testimony ofthe emperor Leo, ou yap nuKunKtft* ffrpaToy TOi,- K</.*$* Sjtp^itmt; ic-Ttv. (Taclica, c. 18. in Meursii Op. torn, r'up. 817.) (1) The tent of Leo the deacon, in the corrupt names of Emeta and Myctarsim, reveals the cities of Amidstand Martyropolis. (Miafarekin. See Ahulfeda,Geoe;raph. p. 24J. vers. Reuke.) Of the former, Leo observesurbs munita et illostris; of the latter,Clara atque conspicua opibusque et pecore, reliquis ejus provinciU urbt-bus atque oppidis lonfje pra>stans. (2) Ut et Ecbatana nergeret Agarenorumque rejjiara everteret aiunt enim urbium qua; uranism sunt ac toto orbe exi.tivu tilicissimam esse auroque ditissimam. (Leo Diacon. apud Pagium, torn. iv. p. 3*0 Thissplendid description suits only wiih Bagdad, and cannot possibly apply either to Hamadan, the true Ecbatana,(d Anyille, Geop;. Ancienne, torn. n. p. 237.)or Tauris, which has commonly been mistaken for that city. Thename ot Ecbaiana, in the same indefinite sense, is transferred by a more classic authority (Cicero pro LesreMauiha, c.4.) tothe rovalseatof Miihridatei,kinr;ofPontus.