OCR Output S38 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS." 4 hearken to what I exhorted, nor to what I commanded them todo, (for the hatred they bore to the people there was too hard formy exhortations to them), I bid those my friends, who weremost faithful to me, and were about me, to give out reports, as ifthe Romans were falling upon the other part of the city with agreat army ; and this I did, that, by such a report's being spreadabroad, I might restrain the violence of the Galileans, and pre­serve the city of Sepphoris. And at length this stratagem hadits effect; for, upon hearing this report, they were in fear forthemselves, and so they left off plundering and ran away ; andthis more especially, because they saw me, their general, do thesame also , for, that I might cause this report to be believed, Ipretended to be in fear as well as they. Thus were the inhabi­tants of Sepphoris unexpectedly preserved by this contrivanceof mine. 68. Nay, indeed, Tiberias had like to have been plundered by'the Galileans also upon the following occasion : The chief menof the senate wrote to the king, and desired that he would cometo them, and take possession of their city. The king promisedto come, and wrote a letter in answer to theirs, and gave it toone of his bed-chamber, whose name was Crispus, and who wasby birth a Jew, to carry it to Tiberias. When the Galileansknew that this man carried such a letter, they caught him, andbrought him to me ; but as soon as the whole multitude heardof it, they were enraged, and betook themselves to their arms.So a great many of them got together from all quarters thenext day, and came to the city Asochis, where I then lodged,and made heavy clamours, and called the city of Tiberias atraitor to them, and a friend to the king ; and desired leave ofme to go down, and utterly destroy it; for they bore the likeill-will to the people of Tiberias, as they did to those of Sep­phoris. 69. When I heard this, I was in doubt what to do, and he­sitated by what means I might deliver Tiberias from the rage-of the Galileans ; for I could not deny that those of Tiberiashad written to the king, and invited him to come to them ; forhis letters to them, in answer thereto, would fully prove thetruth of that. So 1 sat a long while musing with myself, andthen said to them, " I know well enough that the people of'' Tiberias have offended ; nor shall I forbid you to plunder the«' city. However, such things ought to be done with discretion ;" for they of Tiberias have not been the only betrayers of our*' liberty, but many of the most eminent patriots of the Gah-" leans, as they pretended to be, have done the same. Tarry*' therefore till I shall thoroughly find out those authors of our " danger,