OCR Output Chap. XXIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 9S9 prevailed upon cunningly by his flatteries, and changed the mar­riages ; he married Aristobulus's daughter to him, and his sonto Pheroras's daughter. 0. Now one may learn, in this instance, how very much thisflattering Antipater could do, even what Salome in the like cir­cumstances could not do ; for when she, who was his sister, andwho, by the means of Julia, Caesar's wife, earnestly desired leaveto be married to Sylleus the Arabian, Herod swore he wouldesteem her his bitter enemy, unless she would leave off that pro­ject: he also eaused her, against her own consent, to be marriedto Alexas^ a friend of his, and that one of her daughters shouldbe married to Alexas's son, and the other to Antipater's uncleby the mother's side. And for the daughters the king had byMariambe, the one was married to Antipater, his sister's son,and the other to his brother's son, Phasaelus. CHAP. XXIX. Antipater becomes Intolerable. He is sent to Rome, and carriesHerod's testament viith him- Pheroras leaves his brother,that be may keep his wife. He dies at home. J 1. '^^T'OW when Antipater had cut off the hopes of the or-JL.NI phans, and had contracted such affinities as would bemost for his own advantage, he proceeded briskly, as having acertain expectation of the kingdom, and as he had now assur­ance added to his wickedness, he became intolerable ; for notbeing able to avoid the hatred of all people, he built his securityUpon the terror he struck into them. Pheroras also assisted himin his designs, looking upon him as already fixed in the kingdom.There Was also a company of women in the court, which ex­cited new disturbances ; for Pheroras's wife, together with hermother and siste^ as also Antipater's mother, grew very im­pudent in the palace. She also was so insolent as to affront theking's * two daughters, on which account the king hated her toa great degree; yet although these women were hated by him, 'they domineered over others: there was only Salome who op­posed their good agreement, and informed the king of theirmeetings, as not being for the advantage of his affairs. Andwhen those women knew what calamities she had raised againstthem, and how much Herod was displeased, they left off theirpublic meetings, and friendly entertainments of one another; « These daughters of Herod, whom Pheroras's wife affronted, were Salome andRoxana, two virgins, who were born to him of his two wives, Elpide and Phedra.S«e Herod's genealogy, Antiq. B. XVII. ch. i. sect 3. Vol. III.- U U 2'