OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. i.'09 against Jonathan, to a concern for his own preservation : for henow returned out of Arabia into Syria, with the child Antio­chus, for he was in age but a youth, and put the diadem onhis head: And as the whole forces that had left Demetrius, be­cause they had no pay, came to his assistance, he made war uponDemetrius, and joining battle with him, overcame him in thefight, and took from him both his elephants and the city Antioch. 4. Demetrius, upon this defeat, retired into Cilicia: but thechild Antiochus sent ambassadors, and an epistle to Jonathan,and made him his friend and confederate, and confirmed to himthe high priesthood, and yielded up to him the four prefectureswhich had been added to Judea. Moreover he sent him vesselsand cups of gold, and a purple garment; and gave him leave touse them. He also presented him with a golden button, andstyled him one of his principal friends, and appointed his bro­ther Simon to be the general over the forces, from the ladder ofTyre unto Egypt. So Jonathan was so well pleased with thesegrants made him by Antiochus, that he sent ambassadors tohim, and to Trypho, and professed himself to be their friendand confederate, and said he would join with him in a waragainst Demetrius, informing him that he had made no properreturns for the kindnesses he had done him; for that when hehad received many marks of kindness from him, when he stoodin great need of them, he for such good turns, had requitedhim -with further injuries. 5. So Antiochus gave Jonathan leave to raise himself a nu­merous army out of Syria and Phenicia, and to make war againstDemetrius' generals; whereupon he went in haste to the seve­ral cities, which received him splendidly indeed, but put noforces into his hands. And when he was come from thence toAskelon, the inhabitants of Askelon came and brought him pre­sents, and met him in a splendid manner. He exhorted them,and every one of the cities of Celesyria, to forsake Demetrius,and to join with Antiochus; and in assisting him, to endeavourto punish Demetrius for what offences he had been guilty ofagainst themselves; and told them there were many reasons forthat their procedure, if they had a mind so to do. And when hehad persuaded those cities to promise their assistance to Antio­chus, he came to Gaza, in order to induce them also to be friendsto Antiochus; but he found the inhabitants of Gaza much morealienated from him than he expected, for they had shut theirgates against him, and although they had deserted Demetrius,they had not resolved to join themselves to Antiochus. Thisprovoked Jonathan to besiege them, and to harass their country,for as he set a part of his army round about Gaza, itself, so withthe rest he overran their land, and spoiled it, and burnt what