OCR Output 33« THE DECLINE AND FALL lity into the heart of the empire. But the experience of the worldfrom China to Britain, has exposed the rain attempt of fortifyingany extensive tract of country **. An active enemy, who can selectand vary his points of attack, must, in the end, discover some feeblespot or some unguarded moment. The strength, as well as the at­tention, of the defenders is divided; and such are the blind effectsof terror on the firmest troops, that a line broken in a single place,is almost instantly deserted. The fate of the wall which Probuserected, may confirm the general observation. Within a few yearsafter his death, it was overthrown by the Alemanni. Its scatteredruins, universally ascribed to the power of the Dæmon, now serveonly to excite the wonder of the Swabian peasant.Jntroduaion Among the useful conditions of peace imposed by Probus on theoflhe ba™Wt vanquished nations of Germany, was the obligation of supplyingbarUM- the Roman army with sixteen thousand recruit*, the bravest andmost robust of their youth. The emperor dispersed them throughall the provinces, and distributed this dangerous reinforcement ininall bands, of fifty or sixty each, among the national troops;judiciously observing, that the aid which the republic derived fromthe barbarians, slvould be felt but not seen Their aid was nowbecome necefiary. The feeble elegance of Italy and the internalprovinces, could no longer support the weight of arms. The hardyfrontier of the Rhine and Danube still produced minds and bodiesequal to the labours of the camp; but a perpetual series of wars hadgradually diminimed their numbers. The infrequency of marriage,and the ruin of agriculture, affected the principles of population, andnot only destroyed the strength of the present, but intercepted thehope of future generations. The wisdom of Probus embraced a greatand beneficial plan of replenifliing the exhausted frontiers, by new co­lonies of captive or fugitive barbarians, on whom he bestowed lands,cattle, instruments of husbandry, and every encouragement thatmight engage them to educate a race of soldiers for the service of 6 the