OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 11 were built. It is a known fact, that Aminocles, a s.hip-car-penter from Corinth, built four ships for the Samians: Now,from the arrival of Aminocles at Samos to the conclusion ofthe -war which is now my subject, there passed at most butthree hundred years. The oldest sea-fight we know anything of, was that of the Corinthians against the Corcyreans:But the distance between that and the same period is notmore than two hundred and sixty. For the city of the Co­rinthians, being seated on the Isthmus, hath ever been a placeof trade, as formerly the Grecians both within and withoutPeloponnesus, more accustomed to land than sea, could haveno traffic with one another without passing through theirterritory. They were also remarkable for wealth, as clearlyappeareth from the ancient poets, who have given that citythe epithet of rich. And, when once navigation was prac­tised in Greece, they lost no time in their own equipments ;they cleared the sea of pirates ; and, opening their town as apublic mart, both by land and sea, made Corinth powerfulby the increase of its revenue. The Ionians had no navalforce till a long time after this, in the reign of Cyrus, firstking of the Persians, and his son Cambyses: And, wagingwar with Cyrus, they were for a time masters of the seawhich lieth upon their own coasts. Polycrates also, whowas tyrant of Samos, in the reign of Cambyses, having apowerful navy, subdued many of the islands, and amongthe rest Rhenea, which as soon as conquered he consecratedto Delian Apollo. The Phoceans also, when planting theircolony at Marseilles, had a successful engagement at seaagainst the Carthaginians. These were the most remarkable equipments of a navalforce; and these, though beyond contest many generationslater than the war of Troy, had a very small number of tri- were also masted and carried sails ; but they generally lowered the sailswhen they came to action, and relied chiefly on their oars, that they mightbe more able to tack about, or to run down upon the enemy with moreforce aijd steadiness. See Potter's \rtfi:w>logia, voL ii. c. 14.