OCR Output CHAP. LI. 421 bigotry of the Christians, who studied to destroy themonuments of idolatry." But if we gradually descendfrom the age of the Antonines to that of Theodosius, weshall learn from a chain of contemporary witnesses, thatthe royal palace and the temple of Serapis no longer con­tained the four, or the seven, hundred thousand volumes,which had been assembled by the curiosity and magni­ficence of the Ptolemies/ Perhaps the church and seatof the patriarchs might be enriched with a repository ofbooks; but if the ponderous mass of Arian and Mono-physite controversy were indeed consumed in the pu blicbaths,g a philosopher may allow, with a smile, that it wasultimately devoted to the. benefit of mankind. I sin­cerely regret the more valuable libraries which havebeen involved in the ruin of the Roman empire: butwhen I seriously compute the lapse of ages, the waste ofignorance, and the calamities of war, our treasures, ratherthan our losses, are the object of my surprise. Manycurious and interesting facts are buried in oblivion; thethree great historians of Rome have been transmitted toour hands in a mutilated state, and we are deprived ofmany pleasing compositions of the lyric, iambic, anddramatic poetry of the Greeks. Yet we should grate­fully remember, that the mischances of time and acci­dent have spared the classic works to which the suffrageof antiquity11 had adjudged the first place of genius andglory: the teachers of ancient knowledge, who are still Usher. (A nual, p. 469.) . Li vy himself had styled the Alexandrian library, elegan-tia regum cursque egregium opus; a liberal encomium, for which he is partlycriticised by the narrow stoicism of Seneca, ( De Tranquillitate Animi, c. 9.) whosewisdom, on this occasion, deviates into nonsense. 'See this History, vol. 5. p. 117. 'Aulus Gellius, (Noctes Attics, 6. 17.) Ammianus Marcellinui, (tZ. 16.) andOrosius. (lib. 6. c. 15.) They all speak in the post tense, and the words of Am­mianus are remarkably strong. fuerunt Bibliothecs innumerabiles; et loquiturmonumentorum veteran concinens fides, &c. f Benaudot answers for versions of the Bible, Hexapla Catena PatrutD, Com­mentaries, Sfc. (p. 170.) Our Aleiandrian MS. if it came from Egypt, and notfrom Constantinople, or mount Athos, (Wetstein, Prolegorn. ad N. T. p. 8, &c.)might poisibly be among thern. b I have often perused with pleasure a chapter of Quintilian, (Institut. Orator.10. 1.) in which that judicious critic enumerates and appreciates the series of Greekand Latin classics.