OCR Output 7G8 , ROMA. ROMA. parallel toonc another with common walls, the centreone being that of Jove, on each side those of Juno■lid Minerva. In Livy, however (vi. 4), Juno isIt presented as being in the same celia with Jupiter.Bat though the temple had three cells, it had butone J'a$ti<jiuiii} or pediment, and a single roof. TEMPLE OF JLTITKK CAP1TOLIXC8. (From a Coin of Vespasian.) Now the first thing that strikes us on reading thisdescription is, that the front being so ornamented,and the hack so very plain, the temple must havestood in a situation where the former was very con­spicuous, whilst the latter was but little seen. Sucha situation is afforded only by the XE. summit ofthe Capitoline. On this site the front of the temple,being turned to the south, would not only be visiblefrom the forum, but would also present its bestaspect to those who had ascended the Capitoline hill;whilst on the other hand, had it stood on the S\V.summit, the front would not have been visible fromthe forum, and what is still worse, the temple wouldhare presented only its mule and unadorned backto those who approached it by the usual and mostimportant ascent, the Clivus Capitolinus. Such astate of tilings, in violation of all the rules whichcommonly regulate the disposition of public buildings,is scarcely to be imagined. * We will now revert to Becker's objection respectingthe Akka Caimtoi.inw. It must be admitted thatthe dimensions of the temple would have allowed butlittle room for this area on the height of Araceli,esju'ciully as this must have contained other smalltemples and monuments, such as that of JupiterFeretrius, &c. Yet the Area Capitolina,we know, wasoften the scene not only of public meetings but evenof combats. There are very striking indications thatthis area was not confined to the height on whichthe temple stood, but that it occupied part at least ofthe extensive surface of lower ground lying betweenthe two summits. One indication of this is the greatbright of the steps leading up to the vestibule of thetemple, as shown by the story related by Livy ofAnnius, the ambassador of the Latins; whe beingrebuked by Manlius and the fathers fur his insolence,rushed frantically from the vestibule, and fallingdown the steps, was either killed or rendered insen­sible (viii. 6). That there was a difference in thelevel of the Capitol may be seen from the accountgiven by l'at<*rcuhis of Soipio Nasiea's address tothe people in the sedition of the Gracchi. Standingapparently on the same lofty steps,—"ex tuperioreparte CopttoUftsummisgradibns insistens** (ii. 3),—Nasiea incited by his eloquence the senators andknights to attack Gracchus, who \v;ls standing inthe area below, with a large crowd of his adherents,and who was killed in attempting to escape downthe Clivus Capitolinus. The area must bare been of considerable size to hold the carerrae of Gaahav;and the same fact is shown by several other ptaepiin the classics (Liv. ext. 3. xlv. 36, At). Sbsall these circumstances suit much better wiA ttemple on the NK. summit thin with act ca OSopposite height. An area in front of the latter, »•sides being out of the way for public meeting, *wMnot have afforded sufficient space f r them; aawould it have presented the lofty stepi berw *■scribed, nor the ready means of escape den anclivus. These, then, are the reasons whj 4amthe NE. summit the more probable si:e d MCapitoline temple. We have already mentioned that thii \)3tmtemple was at least planned by the elder Tiand according to some authors the fooodana completely laid by him (Dion vs. iv. 5ft\ui.ibuilding continued nnder Servius (Tac. Hut :d TajHowever this may be, it is certain that u n* aflfinished till the time of Tarqninius Snperis»,efltasked the people to work at it (Liv. L 56); iatthe tyrant was expelled before it could be d*£csJwhich honour was reserved for M. Bacatiai Pthaajone of the first two consols of the Republic (Nfliii. 22; Liv. ii. 8; Hut. Popl. 14). Whea j|foundations were first laid it was necessary tsa"^gurate the temples of other deities whkh >toad Ithe site destined for it; on which occasion Toand Juventaa, who had altars there, aloat Ito move, and it became necessary to ecckse ishrines within the temple; a happy omen fie*lfuture greatness of the city! (Liv. v. 54; DioajMG9.) It is a well-known legend that ha asa_Capitolium was derived from the finding of ajhead in digging the foundation (Varr. /»]§ 41, Mull.; Tlin. xxviii. 4, &c) The]of the god, originally of clay, was made by 1of Fregellae, and represented himposture. The face was painted with ithe statue was probably clothed in a tonics safland toga picta, as the costume wu borrfvaHtriumphant generals. On the acroterttim eflpediment stood a quadriga of earthenware, ^flportentous swelling in the furnace was asajgarded as an omen of Koine's future gre*"«s Hxxviii. 4; Plut. Popl 13). The brother* CMOgulnius subsequently placed a bronze qmda^Ha statue of Jupiter on the roof; but this pnWaSnot supersede that of clay, to which so muehaaflimportance was attached. The same aeB^Mpresented a bronze threshold, and consecrafl^Hsilver plate in Jupiter's cells (Liv. x. 23; c£MTrin. i. 2. 46.) By degrees the temple P*tceedingly rich. Camillus dedicatedpuftrae out of the spoils taken from the Eti(Liv. vi. 4), and the dictator Cincincafnathe temple a statue of Jupiter Imperator,had carried orT from Praeneste (ld.ri.tffllength the pediment and columns became a^^bcred with shields, ensigns, and other <the censors M. Fulvius Nobilior andLepidua were compelled to rid the tensuperflaoua ornaments (Id. xL 51). As we have before related, the oiing lasted till the year b. o S3, whendown in the civil wars of Sulla, accordiiby design (M privata fraude," Hist, iirestoration was undertaken by Sullaquently confided to Q. Lut alias Catultathe opposition of Caesar, who wished toname of Catulus from the teinrdo, tad to