OCR Output nu vn.] 427 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. • acclamation Wak made by the whole com­pany: and when that was over, they fell toeating their supper, and to the enjoyment ofwhat was set before them. And at a littleinterval afterward, when the king thought asufficient time had elapsed, he began to talkphilosophically to them, and he asked everyone of them a philosophical question;* andsuch a one as might give light in those in­quiries. And when they had explained allthe problems that had been proposed by theking, about every point, he was pleased withtheir answers. This took up the twelvedays in which they were treated. And hethat pleases may learn the particular ques­tions in that book of Aristeus's, which hewrote on this very occasion. And while not the king only, but the phi­losopher Menedemus also, admired them,and said, that "All things were governed byProvidence; and that it was probable, thatthence it was that such force and beautywas discovered in these men's words," theythen left off asking any more such questions.But the king said, he had gained very greatadvantages by their coming; for that he hadreceived this profit from them, that he hadlearned how he ought to rule his subjects.And Jie gave order that they should haveevery one three talents given them; and thatthose that were to conduct them to theirlodging should do it. Accordingly, whenthree days were over, Demetrius took them,and went over the causeway seven furlongslong. It was a bank in the sea, to an island.And when they had gone over the bridge,he proceeded to the northern parts, andshewed them where they should meet, whichwas in a house that was built near the shore;and was a quiet place, and fit for their dis­coursing together about their work. Whenhe had brought them thither, he intreatedthem, now they had all things about themwhich they wanted for the interpretation oftheir law, that they would suffer nothing tointerrupt them in their work. Accordinglythey made an accurate interpretation, withgreat zeal, and great pains. And this they continued to do till the ninth hour of the day.After which time they relaxed and took careof their body; while their food was providedfor them in great plenty; besides which,Dorotheus, at the king's command, broughtthem a great deal of what was provided forthe king himself. But in the morning theycame to the court, and saluted Ptolemy;and then went away to their former place:where, when they had fwashed their hands,and purified themselves, they betook them­selves to the interpretation of the laws. Nowwhen the law was transcribed, and the la­bour of interpretation was over, which cameto its conclusion in seventy-two days; Deme­trius gathered all the Jews together to theplace where the laws were translated, andwhere the interpreters were; and read themover. The multitude did also approve ofthose elders that were the interpreters ofthe law. They also commended Demetrius,for his proposal, as the inwntor of what wasgreatly for their happiness; and desired thathe would give leave to their rulers also toread the law. Moreover, they all, both thepriests, and the most ancient of the elders,and the principal men of their common-weal,made it their request, that since the inter­pretation was happily finished, it might con­tinue in the state it now was, and might notbe altered. And when they all commendedthat determination of theirs, they enjoined,that if any one observed either any thingsuperfluous, or any thing omitted, that hewould take a view of it again, and have itlaid before them, and corrected; which wasa wise action of them, that when the thingwas judged to have been well done, it mightcontinue for ever. So the king rejoiced, when he saw that hiadesign was brought to perfection, to so greatadvantage. And he was chiefly delightedwith hearing the laws read to him; and wasastonished at the deep meaning and wisdomof the legislator. And he began to ask of De­metrius, how it came to pass, that when thislegislation was so wonderful, no one either ofthe poets, or of the historians had made men­ * They were rather political questions and answers;tending to the good and religious government of mankind. t This purification of the interpreters, by washing inthe sea, before they prayed to God, every morning, andbefore they set about translating, may be compared with voL. I.—NOS. 35 il 36. the like practice of Peter the apostle, in the recognitionsof Clement IV. 3. V. 36. VIII. 1. and with the places ofthe Proseucha?, or of prayer, which were sometimes builtnear the sea or rivers also. Of which matter, see XIV.10. and Acts xvi. 13, 16. 4A