OCR Output NERULUM. 421 NESTUS. The territory of the Nervii did not extend beyondthe limits of the old diocese of Cambrai, which was,however, very Urge. The capital of the Nervii wasBagacum (Bavai), bat Cambrai was also a town ofthe Nervii. [Cajjaracum.] NERULUM, a town in the interior of Lucania,mentioned by Livy during the wars of the Romansin that country, when it was taken by assault by theconsul Aemilius Barbula, B. c. 317 (Liv. ix. 20).The only other notice of it is found in the Itineraries,from which we learn that it was situated on the high­road from Capua to Rhegium, at the point of junc­tion with another line of road which led from Vcnu-sia by Potentia and Grumentum towards the fron­tiers of Bruttium (/(«. Ant. pp. 105, 110; Tab.Pcui). The names and distances in this part of theTabula are too corrupt and confused to be of anyservice: the Itinerary of Antoninus places it 14miles (or according to another passage 16 miles) N.of Muranum, the site of which is clearly ascertained.If the former distance be adopted as correct, it musthave been situated at, or in the neighbourhood of,La Rotonda, near the sources of the river Lao(H»L-ten. \ot. ad Clue. p. 293; Romanclli, vol. i.p. 389). [E.H.B.] NEKU'SII (N«pouo-ioi). This name of a peopleoccurs in the Trophy of the Alps (1'lin. iii. 20. s.24). between the Oratelli and Velauni. Ptolemy (iii. 1. § 41) places them within his Italy among theMaritime Alps. Their chief town was Vintium,which is Venct, on the west side of the Var, andnot far from Nicaea (Atzza). [G. L.] NESACTIUM (NwdVroi-, Ptol.), a town of Istria,situated to the E. of l'ola, on the Flanaticus Sinus,and not far from the river Arsia, which was theboundary of Istria on this side. Hence Ptolemy callsit the last city of Italy. It is mentioned by Livy usa city of the Istrians before their conquest by Rome,and a strong fortress, so that it stood a long siege,and was only taken by the Roman consul C. Clau­dius Pulcher, by cutting off its supply of water (Liv.xli. 11). It afterwards appears both in Pliny andPtolemy as a municipal town of Istria under theRomans, and seems to have survived the full of theWestern Empire, but the period of its destruction isunknown (Pun. iii. 19. s. 23; Ptol. iii. 1. § 27( Tab.I'eut; Anon. Rav. iv. 31). The fact of its proxi­mity to the Arsia (/Irso), combined with Livy'smention of a river Jhwing by the vails, render it pro­bable that it was situated immediately on the rightbank of the Areia; but its exact site has not beendetermined. [E. H. B.] XESAEA (Njjoofa), a district mentioned in twoplaces in Strabo, with slightly differing descrip­tions: I. as a country belonging to Hyrcania, andwatered by the Ochus, now Tedjen (xi. p. 509); 2. at a distinct and independent land (xi. p. 511).1 he geographer probably meant to imply a narrowstrip of land, whose boundaries were Hyrcania,Ariana, and Parthia respectively, and correspond­ing with the present Khordtan. It may be iden­tified with the existing Aitsa, a small town to thoX. of the A llmrz chain of mountains, between At-Imiijdd and itethtd. (Wilson, Ariana, pp. 142—148.) There has been some doubt as to the orthographyof the name, which, in some of the editions, is calledKtcmla; but, on the whole, the above is probablythe best. It is not unlikely that the place calledby lttdorus J'artkaynisa, "whieh the Greeks callXtsafa," must also be identified with the present Ifma. The same district answers to the " regioNisiaea Parthyenes nobilis" in Pliny (vi. 25. s.29). [V.] NESCANIA, a municipal town in Hispania Bae-tica, stood on the site of the modern village El Vallede A bdelaciz, 2 leagues W. from Antequera. It isstill famed for its mineral springs, the existence ofwhich in ancient times is attested by inscriptions.(Ukert, vol. ii. pt 1. p. 363.) [T. H. I).] NESIO'TIS (Nno-iiTir x*V=, Ptol. v. 9. § 17),a district of Asiatic Sarmatia, formed by the windingsof the river Rha,and occupied by the Asaei, Mateki,and Phtheikofhagi. [E. B. J.] NESIS (Nisida), a small island on the coast ofCampania, between Puteoli and Neapolis, and di­rectly opposite to the extremity of the ridge calledMons Pausilypus (Seneca, Ep. 53). It may be con­sidered as forming the eastern headland of the bayof Baiao or. Puteoli, of which Cape Misenum is thewestern limit. The island is of small extent, butconsiderable elevation, and undoubtedly constitutedat a remote period one side of the crater of a vol­cano. This must, however, have been extinct beforethe period of historical memory; but it appears thateven in the days of Statius and Lncan it emittedsulphureous and noxious vapours, which has longceased to be tho case (Stat. Silv. ii. 2. 78; Lucan,vi. 90). It was nevertheless, like the adjoining hillof Pausilypus, a pleasant place of residence. Brutushad a villa there, where he was visited by Ciceroshortly after the death of Caesar, and where theyconferred, together with Cassius and Libo, upontheir future plans (Cic. ad Alt. xvi. 1—4). Plinytells us that it was famous for its asparagus, acelebrity which it still retains (Plin. xix. 8. s.42); but the wood which crowned it in the daysof Statius (Sile. iii. 1. 148), has long since disap­peared. [E. H. B ] NESIS (Nj><m, Arrian Peripl. p. 18), a smallriver, 60 stadia from the Borgys, whieh dischargesitself into the Euxine by the Prom. Hcrculis, CapeConstantiouski( CapeAdler of Gauttier's map), wherethere is now a river called Mezioumta. [E. B. J.J NESSON. [Nessonis Lacus.] NESSO'NIS LACUS (>| Ntno-aids \turn), alake of Pelasgiotis in Thessaly, lying east of La-rissa, now called Karatjair or Wavpo\iftvrj. Insummer it is only a marsh, and contains very littlewater, but in winter it is filled by the overflowingof the Peueius. When the basin is filled, its su­perfluous waters are conducted by a channel intothe lake Bocbeis, now called Karla. (Strab. ix.p. 440; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 445,vol. iv. p. 403.) Strabo regarded the lakes Nes­sonis and Boebeis as the remains of the great lakewhich covered Thessaly, before the waters found unoutlet through the vale of Tempe to the sea; but lieis mistaken in saying that Nessonis is larger thanBoebeis. (Strab. ix. p. 430.) Nessonis received itsname from a town Nesson, which is mentioned onlyby Stephanus B. (». t>. Niaaun). NESTAEI. [Nesti.] NESTANE. [Mantineia, Vol. II. p. 264, b] NESTI, NESTAEI (NtaToi, Scylax, p. 8: Nf-araim, Eratosthenes, ap. Sdiol. Apollon. Rhod. iv.1296), a people of lllyricum, with a town of thesame name, near the river Nestus (N«rror, Scylax,l.x.; Artemidorus, ap. Steph. B. J.r.), which has beenidentified with the A'eria. [E. B. J.] NESTUS or NESSUS (NtVrof, Scyl. pp. 8,29; Seymn. 672; Pomp. Mela, ii. 2. §§ 2, 9; Plin, e k 3