OCR Output •NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER. [65] Hist. August, p. 102. 107. [67] Dion, I. lxxx. p. 1369. Herodian, 1 vi.p. zc6 Hist- August, p. 131. Herodian repre­sents the Patrician as innocent. The AugustanHistory, on the authority of Dexippus, condemnshim, as guilty of a conspiracy against the life ofAlexander. It is impossible to pronounce betweenthem: but Dion is an irreproachable witness of the•jealousy and cruelty of Mamtea toward the young•empress, whose hard fate Alexander lamented, butdurst not oppose. [68] Herodian, 1. ti. p. 203. Hist. August. jp. 119. The latter insinuates, that when any lawwas to be passed, the council was assjsted by anumber of able lawyers and experienced senators, •whose opinions were separately given, and takendown in writing. [6c] See his life in the Augustan History. Theundistinguishing compiler has buried these interest­ing anecdotes under a load of trivial and unmeaningcircumstances, [70] S«ethe 13th Satire of Juvenal. [71] Hist. August, p. 119. [72] See in the Hist. August, p. 116, 117, thewhole contest between Alexander and the senate,extracted from the journals of that assembly. ItJiappened on the sixth of March, probably of theyear 223, when the Romans had enjoyed, almosta twelvemonth, the blessings of his reign. Beforethe appellation of Antoninus was offered him as atitle of honour, the senate waited to see whetherAlexander would not assume it, as a family name. [73] It was a favourite saying of the emperor's,Se raiiites magrs servare, quam seipfurn ; quod s»-lus publica in his esset. Hist. August, p. 130. [743 Though the author of the life of Alexanderj(Hist August p. 132) mentions the sedition raisedagainst dpi an by the soldiers, he conceals the ca­tastrophe, as it might discover a weakness in theadministration of his hero. From this designedomission, we may judge of the weight and candour-of that author. [7-] For an account of Ulpian's fate and hisown danger, see the mutilated conclusion of Dion'sHistory, 1. lxxx p. 1371. [67] Annotat. Reimar. ad Dion Cassius, t. lxxx.p. 1369. [77] Julius Cæsar had appeased a sedition withthe same word, Quirites; which thus opposed toSoJJurs, was used in a sersse of contempt, and reducedthe offenders to the less honourable condition of merecitizens. Tacit. Annal. i. 43. [78] Hist. August, p. 132. [79] From the Metelli. Hist. August, p. no.The choice was judicious. In one short period oftwelve years, the Metelli could reckon seven consul­ships, and five triumphs. See Velleius Paterculus,ii 11. and the 'Fasti. [80] The life of Alexander, in the AugustanHistory, is the mere idea of a perfect prince, anawkward imitation of the Cyropædia. The accountof his reign, as given by Herodian, is rational andmoderate, consistent with the general history of theage; and, in some of the most invidious particulars,•connrmed;by the decisive fragments of Dion. Yetfrom a very paltry prejudice, the greater numberof our modem writers abuse Herodian, and copythe Augustan History. See Mess, de Tillemont andWotton. From the opposite prejudice, the emperorJulian (in Cresarib. p. 31 t ) dwells with a visiblesatisfaction on the effeminate weakness of the Syrian,and the ridiculous avarice of his mother. [8j] According to the more accurate Diony si us,the city itself wis only an hundred stadia, or twelvemiles and a half from Rome ; though some out-postsmight be advanced faTfher on the side of Etruria.Nardini, in a professed treatise, has combated thepopular opinion and the authority of two popes, andhas removed Veii from Civita Castellana, to a littlespot called Isolo, in the midway between Rome andthe lake Bracciano. [Sa] See the 4th and ;th books of Livy. In theRoman Census, property, power and taxation, werecommensurate with each other. (83J PJin. Hist- Natut. 1. xxxiii. c 3 CUero de Ofrkiis, ii. 22 Plutarch, in P. Ætnil. p. 275, [84J See a sine description of this accumuht Jwealth of ages, in Lacan'o Pharsalia, i. iii. v. 15;,fee. [%] Tach.