OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Bi 0 that absolute power, which they had exerted for the benefit of theirpeople. The ideal restraints of the senate and the laws might serveto display the virtues, but could never correct the vices of the emperor.The military force was a blind and irresistible instrument of oppression;and the corruption of Roman manners would always supply flat­terers eager to applaud, and ministers prepared to serve, the fear orthe avarice, the lust or the cruelty, of their masters. These gloomy apprehensions had been already justified by theexpe- Memory ofrience of the Romans. The annals of the emperors exhibit a strong i^u^N^o]and various picture of human nature, which we should vainly seek Donu*among the mixed and doubtful characters of modern history. In theconduct of those monarebs we may trace the utmost lines of vice andvirtue; the moist exalted perfection, and the meanest degeneracy ofour own species. The golden age of Trajan and the Antonines,had been preceded by an age of iron. It is almost superfluous toenumerate the unworthy successors of Augustus. Their unpa­ralleled vices, and the splendid theatre on which they were acted,have saved them from oblivion. The dark unrelenting Tiberius,the furious Caligula, the stupid Claudius, the profligate and cruelNero, the beastly Vitellius 5°, and the timid inhuman Domitian,are condemned to everlasting fame. During fourscore years (ex­cepting only the short and doubtful respite of Vespasian's reign JI)Rome groaned beneath an unremitting tyranny, which exterminatedthe ancient families of the republic, and was fatal to almost everyvirtue, and every talent, that arose in that unhappy period. Under the reign of these monsters, the slavery of the Romans „ ° , ' Peculiar mi- was accompanied with two peculiar circumstances, the one occasion- se|7 °f «heed by their former liberty, the other by their extensive conquests, der their ty.which rendered their condition more wretched than that of the ran's"victims of tyranny in any other age or country. From thesecauses were derived, i. The exquisite sensibility of the sufferers;and, 2. The impossibility of escaping from the hand of the oppressor.Vol. I. M I. When