OCR Output xcviii A Survey of the History. " it. Athenians invade them ? The Athenians esteem them*" selves happy they are not invaded by the Syracusans. Yet," supposing them so mad, nothing but their own disgrace" and ruin can be the consequence. But it is all a fiction ; a" scheme to dishearten the friends of the people, and seize the" government of the State. Some men have ever been, and" ever will be dabbling in such vile machinations. But let" them not hope to escape detection. The intention is plain" already, and ought to be punished like open treason. He" then exhorts the people or the many to support their friends," and intirely to disarm the malice of their domestic foes ;" and inveighs severely against the few, or the party" whom he supposeth to be bent on the overthrow of the de-" mocracy at Syracuse." The speech of Athenagoras was so full of ill-timedcholer and party-animosity, that had the debate proceeded,dissensions might have run very high at a season when un­animity was so needful in all the members of that commu­nity. A General of great eminence and weight thinks ithigh time to interpose ; who, in a short speech, reprimandsAthenagoras, recals the general attention to their own pre­servation from the imminent danger, and adjourns the as­sembly. The grand fleet of Athens is now putting to sea fromCorcyra. The Historian takes a review of the whole, andgives a short account of its numbers and strength. Theyarrive on the coast of Italy, where they are refused a recep­tion. Every thing yields them a discouraging and gloomyaspect. They soon find, they had been grossly deluded bytheir Sicilian friends, who instigated them chiefly to the ex­pedition. The trick, which the Egesteans had put on theirembassadors, is particularly recited. The commanders, at acouncil of war, differ highly in opinion, and at last come tono sound resolution. They hover about the coast of Sicily,and parade in sight of Syracuse. Alcibiades endeavours topersuade the Catanians to join with and receive them, but a