OCR Output 76 [Book IV. THE REFORM MOVEMENT Optimatesand Popu­lares. Socialcrisis. even by way of advance—after the war with Perseus nofurther tax was asked from the community. They preferredto allow their military system to decay, rather than to com­pel the burgesses to enter the odious transmarine service; howit fared with the individual magistrates who attempted tocarry out the conscription according to the strict letter ofthe law, has already been related (P. 69). In the Rome of this epoch the two evils of a degenerateoligarchy and a democracy not yet developed but alreadycankered in the bud were interwoven in a manner pregnantwith fatal results. According to their party names, whichwere first heard during this period, the " Optimates " wished togive effect to the will of the best, the " Populares" to that ofthe community; but in fact there was in the Rome of thatday neither a true aristocracy nor a truly self-determiningcommunity. Both parties contended alike for shadows, andnumbered in their ranks none but enthusiasts or hypocrites.Both were equally affected by political corruption, and bothwere in fact equally worthless. Both were necessarily tieddown to the status quo, for neither on the one side nor on theother was there any political idea—to say nothing of any poli­tical plan—rising above the existing state of things; and ac­cordingly the two parties were so entirely in agreement, thatthey met at every step as respected both means and ends, anda change of party was a change of political tactics morethan of political sentiments. The commonwealth wouldbeyond doubt have been a gainer, if either the aristocracyhad directly introduced a hereditary rotation instead of elec­tion by the burgesses, or the democracy had produced fromwithin it a real democratic government. But these Optimatesand these Populares of the beginning of the seventh centurylAC-were far too indispensable for each other to wage such in­ternecine war; they not only could not destroy each other,but, even if they had been able to do so, they would nothave been willing. Meanwhile the commonwealth was poli­tically and morally more and more unhinged, and was vergingtowards its total dissolution. The crisis with which the Roman revolution was openedarose not out of this paltry political conflict, but out of theeconomic and social relations which the Roman governmentallowed, like everything else, simply to take their course,and which thus found opportunity to bring the morbidmatter, that had been long fermenting, without hindrance