OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 3 somuch that at last, Attica being insufficient to support thenumber, they sent over colonies into Ionia. There is another, and to me a most convincing proof ofthe weakness of the ancients. Before the affairs of Troy, itdoth not appear that Greece (or Hellas) was ever united inone common undertaking ; nor had the whole country thatone general appellation: nor indeed did the same subsist atall before the time of Hellen, the son of Deucalion ; the se­veral nations taking their distinguishing names from theirown selves, and Pelasgicum being that of the greatest tract.But when Hellen and his sons had acquired power in Pthiotis,and led out their dependants by way of aid to other cities,conversation made the use of this name become much morefrequent among the several people, though it was long be­fore it so prevailed as to become the general appellation ofthem all. For this Homer is my principal authority, who,though born a long time after the Trojan war, hath no wherementioned them all in this general stile, but hath appro­priated it to those who came with Achilles from Pthiotis,and were the first that bore this name of Grecians (or Hel­lenes-). In his poems Danaans, and Argives and Achaeansare their distinguishing titles. Nor hath he farther oncementioned the Barbarians, for this plain reason in my opin­ion, because Grecians were not yet distinguished by thisone comprehensive name in contra-distinction to that other.These Grecians, therefore whatever, whether so apart in theirdifferent cities, or united by mutual converse, or at lengthcomprehended in one general name, for want of strength andcorrespondence, never acted together in joint confederacybefore the war of Troy: nor was it till the use of the seahad opened free communication amongst them that they en­gaged together in that expedition. For jMinosjis the earliest person whom we know fromtradition to have been master of a navy; and to have beenchiefly lord of the sea which is called the Grecian. To himwere the isles of the Cyclades subject; nay, most of them he