OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTI2UITIS8 OF THE JEWS. £7 "death, lie would send on the multitude what miseries he had"determined for them." 3. So these messengers upon this prophecy of the woman, cameand told it to the king; whereupon he sent to the people everywhere, and ordered that the priests and the Levites should cometogether to Jerusalem; and commanded that those of every ageshould be present also: And when they had gathered together,he first read to them the holy books; after which he stood upona pulpit, in the midst of the multitude, and obliged them tomake a covenant, with an oath, that they would worship God,and keep the laws of Moses. Accordingly, they gave their as­sent willingly, and undertook to do what the king had recom­mended to them. So they immediately offered sacrifices, andthat after an acceptable manner, and besought God to be gra­cious and merciful to them. He also enjoined the high priest,that if there remained in the temple any vessel that was dedicatedto idols, or to foreign gods, they should cast it out: So when agreat number of such vessels were got together, he burnt them,and scattered their ashes abroad, and slew the priests of theidols, that were not of the family of Aaron. 4. And when he had done thus in Jerusalem, he came into thecountry, and utterly destroyed what buildings had been madetherein by king Jeroboam, in honour of strange gods; and heburnt the bones of the false prophets upon that altar which Je­roboam first built. And as the prophet [Jadon], who came toJeroboam when he was offering sacrifice, and when all the peo­ple heard him, foretold what would come to pass, viz. That"a certain man of the house of David, Josiah by name, should"do what is here mentioned." And it happened that those pre­dictions took effect after three hundred and sixty-one years. 5. After these things, Josiah went also to such other Israelitesas had escaped captivity and slavery under the Assyrians, andpersuaded them to desist from their impious practices, and toleave off the honours they paid to strange gods, but to worshiprightly their own Almighty God, and adhere to him. He alsosearched the houses and the villages, and the cities, out of a sus­picion that somebody might have one idol or other in private;nay, indeed, he took away the * chariots [of the sun] that were * It is hard to reconcile the account in the second book of Kings, ch. xxilf. II.with this account of Jo.scphus, and to translate this passage truly in Josephus, whosecopies are supposed to be here imperfect: However, the general sense of both seemsto be this, that there were certain chariots with their horses, dedicated to the idol of'In' sun, or to Moloch : which idol must be carried about in procession, and worship­ped by the people; which chariots were now taken away, as Josephus says, or «s tbtbook of the Kings says, burnt with fire by Joiiak