OCR Output T70 [book :iv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. !Hkk^it>«BlW-j vast materials were there, and with whatgreat skill the workmanship was executed.He also encompassed the entire temple withvery large cloisters; contriving them to bein a due proportion thereto; and he expendedlarger sums of money upon them than hadbeen done before him; till it seemed that noone else had so greatly adorned the templeas he had done. There was a large wall toboth the cloisters; which wall was itself themost prodigious work that was ever heard ofby man. The hill was a rocky ascent, thatdeclined by degrees towards the east partsof the city, till it came to an elevated level.This hill it was which Solomon, who was *thefirst of our kings, by divine revelation en­compassed with a wall; it was of excellentworkmanship upwards, and round the top ofit. He also built a wall below, beginning atthe bottom; which was encompassed by adeep valley. And at the south side he laidrocks together, and bound them to each otherwith lead; and included some of the innerparts, till it proceeded to a great height; andtill both the largeness of the square edifice,and its altitude were immense: and till thevastness of the stones in the front were plainlyvisible on the outside; yet so, that the in­ward parts were fastened together with iron,and preserved the joints immovable for allfuture times. When this work for the foun­dation was done, in this manner, and joinedtogether as part of the hill itself to the verytop of it; he wrought it all into one outwardsurface, and filled up the hollow places whichwere about the wall, and made it a level onthe external surface, and a smooth level also.This hill was walled all round; and in com­pass four furlongs; the distance of each anglecontaining in length a furlong. But withinthis wall, and on the top of all, there rananother wall of stone also: having on theeast quarter, a double cloister, of the samelength with the wall: in the midst of whichwas the temple itself. This cloister lookedto the gates of the temple: and it had beenadorned by many kings in former times.And round about the entire temple werefixed the spoils taken from barbarous nations.All these had been dedicated to the temple * See Book XVIII. chap. 4. by Herod; with the addition of those he hadtaken from the Arabians. Now on the north side of the temple wasbuilt a citadel, whose walls were square andstrong, and of extraordinary firmness. Thiscitadel was built by the kings of the Asmo-nean race, who were also high-priests, beforeHerod: and they called it the tower: inwhich were deposited the vestments of thehigh-priest, which the high-priest only put onat the time when he was to offer sacrifice.These vestments king Herod kept in thatplace; and after his death they were underthe power of the Romans, until the time ofTiberius Caesar. Under whose reign Vitel-lius, the president of Syria, when he oncecame to Jerusalem, and had been most mag­nificently received by the multitude, he hada mind to make them some requital for thekindness they had shewn him. So, upon theirpetition to have those holy vestments in theirown power, he wrote about them to TiberiusCaesar; who granted his request. And thistheir power over the sacerdotal vestmentscontinued with the Jews until the death ofking Agrippa. But after that, Cassius Lon-ginus, who was president of Syria; and Cus-pius Fadus, who was procurator of Judea,enjoined the Jews to deposit those vestmentsin the tower of Antonia: for that they oughtto have them in their power, as they formerlyhad. However, the Jews sent ambassadorsto Claudius Caesar, to intercede with him forthem. Upon whose coming, king Agrippajunior being then at Rome, asked for and ob­tained the power over them from the empe­ror: who gave the command to Vitellius,then commander in Syria, to give it them ac­cordingly. Before that time they were keptunder the seal of the high-priest, and of thetreasurers of the temple: which treasurers,the day before a festival, went up to the Ro­man captain of the temple guards, and viewedtheir own seal, and received the vestments.And again, when the festival was over, theybrought it to the same place, and shewed thecaptain of the temple guards their seal, whichcorresponded with his own, and depositedthem there. And that these things were so,the afflictions that happened to us afterwardsabout them are sufficient evidence. But forthe^ tower itself, when Herod the king of theJews had fortified it more firmly than before,