OCR Output 136 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR, B, VI. Egesta, which had previously been dispatched thither;longing earnestly for a report about the state of theirtreasure, whether ic was really such as their envoys atAthens had represented. To the Syracusans, in the mean time, undoubted ad­vice is brought from several quarters, and by their ownspies, that" the fleet of the enemy lies at Rhegium."The truth of this being uncontested, they prepared fortheir defence with the utmost attention, and were nolonger duped by incredulity. They also sent about tothe Siculi; to some places, their agents, who were tokeep a watchful eye upon ther conduct \ and, to others,embassadors. And into those towns upon the coast,which were exposed to a descent, they threw a garrison.In Syracuse, they examined if the city was providedwith the proper means of a defence, by a careful inspec­tion of the arms and the horses; and all other pointswere properly adjusted, as against a war coming swiftlyupon them, and only not already present. The three vessels, detached beforehand to Egesta,rejoin the Athenians, yet lying at Rhegium, with a re­port that" the great sums which had been promised*' them were quite annihilated, since they saw only*' * thirty talents in specie." Upon this the commanderswere instantly seized with a dejection of spirit, becausetheir first hope was thus terribly blasted; and the Rhe-gians had refused to concur with their attempts, upon;whom they had made their first efiay of persuasion, andwith whom they had the greatest probability of success,as they were by blood allied to the Leontines, and hadever fliewn themselves well-disposed to the AthenianState. The Egestean affair had indeed taken no otherturn than what Nicias fully expected, but the other twocommanders were quite amazed and confounded at it. The trick, made use of by the Egesteans, at the timethat the first embassy went thither from Athens to take asurvey of their treasures, was this: —Having conducted * 5812/, lot. Stirling. them