OCR Output 188 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. preme command in it was to be committed. With an un­prejudiced treatment of the matter it was not difficult tomake a fitting choice. Rome was no doubt, in comparisonwith earlier times, not rich in military notabilities; yetQuintus Maximus had commanded with distinction in Gaul,Marcus .SSmilius Scaurus and Marcus Minucius in theregions of the Danube, Quintus Metellus, Publius RutiliusRufus, Gaius Marius in Africa; and the object proposedwas not to defeat a Pyrrhus or a Hannibal, but again to makegood the often tried superiority of Roman arms and Romantactics in opposition to the barbarians of the north—anobject which required no hero, but merely a stern and ablesoldier. But it was precisely a time, when anything waspracticable rather than the unprejudiced settlement of a ques­tion of administration. The government was, as it couldnot but be and as the Jugurthine war had already shown,so utterly bankrupt in public opinion, that its ablest generalshad to retire in the full career of victory, whenever itoccurred to an officer of mark to vilify them before thepeople and to get himself as the candidate of the oppositionappointed to the head of affairs. It was no wonder, thatwhat took place after the victories of Metellus was repeatedon a greater scale after the defeats of Gnaeus Mallius andQuintus Caepio. Once more Gaius Marius came forward,in spite of the law which prohibited the holding of the con­sulship more than once, as a candidate for the suprememagistracy; and not only was he nominated as consul andcharged with the chief command in the Gallic war, while hewas still in Africa at the head of the army there, but he wasre-invested with the consulship for five years in succession104-100. (650-654). This proceeding, which looked like an inten­tional mockery of the exclusive spirit that the nobility hadexhibited in reference to this very man in all its folly andshortsightedness, was unparalleled in the annals of the re­public, and in fact absolutely incompatible with the spiritof the free constitution of Rome. In the Roman militarysystem in particular—the transformation of which from aburgess-militia into a set of mercenaries, begun in theAfrican war, was continued and completed by Mariusduring his five years of a supreme command unlimited fromthe exigencies of the times still more than from the termsof his appointment—the profound traces of this unconstitu­tional commandership-in-chief of the first democratic generalremained visible for all times.