OCR Output SOGDII MONTES. 1019 SOLI. > occupied different parts of the province. Manyim ihow by the form of their name that if notr'lr of Indian descent, they arc clearly connectedJ) that country. Thus we have the Pasicae, nearOxii; the Thacori (Tahtrs) on til nrta; the Oxydrancae, Drybactae, and Gandarimikarat), under the mountains; the Mardyenimtoj), Chorasmii (A'AirarejwiMi/w), near theand the Oirrodes (Kiratas) near the samer. (Wilson, Ariana, p. 164.)fa lustorians of Alexander's march leave us top*# that Sogdiana abounded with large towns;many of these, as Professor Wilson has re­ts! (I. c), were probably little more than fortsted along the lines of the great rivers to defendcountry from the incursions of the barbarousti to in N. and E. Yet these writers mustI bid good opportunity of estimating the force ofi places, at Alexander appears to have been thepart of three years in this and the adjoiningla* uf Ractriana. The principal towns ofrh til" names have been handed down to us,I Cymchita or Cyropolis, on the Jaxartesft. B. «. r. j Curt. vi. 6); Gaza (CAtu orntlbn Uaukfl, p. 270); Alexandria Ultimanan, hi. 30; Curt. I. ».; Amm. Marc xxiii. G),■less in the neighbourhood of, if not on the sitev j-'seni Kkojaui; Alexandria Oxiana (Ptol.It J ]; Steph. B. «. c); Nautaca (Arrian, iii.it. 18), in the neighbourhood of Karihi or■U; Branchidae (Strab. xi. p. 518), a placeimiuIIv said to have been colonised by a Greek■tin; and Marginia (Curt vii. 10. § 15), pro.f Uw present MaryAmnn. (Droysen, Jihrin. ■ IJihr. p. 86; Mannert, ir. p. 452; Burnes,*U. ip. 550; Memoirs of Bdbrr, p. 12; De, .ViricM et ExtraiU, iv. p. 354; Thirlwall,•/Greece, vi. p. 284.) [V.]KDU MONTE& [Soodiasa.]•tilfNTII, an Alpine people ment4oned by Pliny•ft 1 24). Nothing bat resemblance of namei u any indication of the position of many smalltarn tribes, but the names remain frequentlyIiBfc changed. The position of the Sogiuntiikjastared to be shown by the name Sauze or NE. of Brian ^nn in the department of■i Alpet. But this is merely a guess; andthe orthography of the name Sogiuntii is not cer- H.E, a small town in the interior of Hyrcania,"Md by Ammianus (xxiii. 6), [V.]•M.N {Xmkfr, Ptol. vti. 1. §§ 10, 34), a small * & India, which has its sources in M. Bettigo,kw* timce into the Sinus Colchicns or GW/" of It » not certain which of two rivers,V**paru or the Tammjximi, represent it atit: Lasaca inclines to the hitter. [V.]►LENTA. [OunrrA Iw»ula.]UXTOK [Solus.] •LErUM {Soteto). a town of Calabria, situated * iMv*rior of the Iapygian peninsula, about 121 & cf Lapiae (Z>coe). It is mentioned only byi bi vfaose time it was deserted (" Soletnintorn," Pb'h. Hi. 11. s. 16). but it mnst hare been i iiiliabrted, as it still exists under the ancient ■ That the modern town occupies the ancient» parted by the remains of the ancient wallsb**r* still visible in the days of Galateo, and t toirn of considerable magnitude (Galateo,t l*pyg. p.81 j ftianamlli, nj fl p.26.)[E. H. B.]'U (2oAm: Eth. 2oA«vr or 2<fAioj), an im­ portant town on the coast of Cilicia, between themouths of (he rivers Lam us and Pyramos, from eachof which its distance was about 500 stadia. (Strab.xiv. p. 675; Stadiasm. Mar. Mag. § 170, &c.)The town was founded by Argives joined by Lin-dians from Rhodes. (Strab. xiv. p. 671; Pomp.Mela, i. 13; Liv. xxxvii. 56.) It is first mentionedin history by Xenoplmn (Anab. i. 2. § 24) as amaritime town of Cilicia; it rose to such opu­lence that Alexander the Great could fine its citizensfor their attachment to Persia with 200 talents.(Arrian, Annb. ii. 5. § 5; Curt. iii. 17.) During theMithridatic War the town of Soli was taken and de­stroyed by Tigranes, king of Armenia, who probablytransplanted most of its inhabitants to Tigranocerta.(Dion Cass, xxxvi. 20; Plut. fW 28; Strab. xi.p. 532 ) But the place was revived by Pompey, whopeopled it with some of those pirates who had falleninto his hands, and changed its name into Pom-pciupolis. (T\ofxirT}iouwoKtf, Plut. /. c; Strab. xiv.p. 671; Appian. Mithr. 105; Ptol. v. 8. § 4; Plin.v. 22; Steph. B. a. r.; Tac. Arm. ii. 58; Hierocl.p. 704.) Soli was the birthplace of Chryaippusthe philosopher, and of two distinguished poets,Philemon and A rat us, the latter of whom wasbelieved to be buried on a hill near the town. TheGreek inhabitants of Soli are reported to have spokena very corrupt Greek in consequence of their inter­course with the natives of Cilicia, and hence to havegiven rise to the term solecism (ffoAoiiaffftoj). whichhas found its way into all the languages of Europe;other traditions, however, connect the origin of thisterm with the town of Soli, in Cyprus. (Diog. Laert.i. 2. § 4; Eustath. ad Dion. Per. 875; Suid. a. v.16\oi.) The locality and the remains of this ancientcity have been described by Beaufort (Karamania,p. 261, foil.). "The first object that presenteditself to us on landing," says he, " was a beautifulharbour or basin, with parallel sides and circularends; it is entirely artificial, being formed with sur-rounding walls or moles, which are 50 feet in thick­ness and 7 in height. Opposite to the entrance uftlie harbour a portico rises from the surroundingquay, and opens to a double row of 200 columns,which, crossing the town, communicates with theprincipal gate towards the country. Of the 200columns no more than 42 are now standing; theremainder lie on the spot where they fell, intermixedwith a vast assemblage of other ruined buildingswhich were connected with the colonnade. Thetheatre is almost entirely destroyed. The citywalls, strengthened by numerous towers, entirelysurrounded the town. Detached ruins, tombs, and from tlie walls, on the outside of the town, and it isevident that the whole country was once occuyn*edby a numerous and industrious (■•ople." The nativesnow call tlie place Mezettu. (Comp. Leake, AnaMinor, p. 213, ML) The little river which passedthruugh Soli was called Li par is, from the oily nature OODI Off sou.