OCR Output SICILIA. 979 SICILIA. il »ere thus restored to at least nominal freedom.I limilar revolution occurred a few years later at•nriK, where, on the death of Hieron (b. c. 467),* power paaaed into the hands of Thrasybulus,tiw violent and tyrannical proceedings quicklyL.iied an insurrection among the Syracusans. This,xne the signal for a general revolt of all the:k3 a Sicily, who united their forces with those ofr Syracoaana, and succeeded in expelling Thrasy-ihai fro u his strongholds of Ortygia and Achradina)ul xl 67, 68), and thus driving him from Hr fill of the Gclonian dynasty at Syracuse.0.466) became for a time the occasion of violentBnal dissensions in most of the Sicilian cities,txh it many cafes broke out into actual warfare.1 after a few years these were terminated by aml congress and compromise, B. c 461; the<a were allowed to return to their respectiveCamarina, which had been destroyed byka, was re peopled and became once more a flour-in; city; while Catana was restored to its (ri­al Chalcidic citizens, and resumed its ancientw (Hod, xi. 76). The tranquillity thus re-ib>?bed was of unusual permanence and duration;lae half century that followed was a period ofrnutest prosperity for all the Greek cities in theil. and was doubtless that when they attainedthe exception of Syracuse) their highestim of opulence and power. This is distinctly"d by Diodurus (/. c.) and is remarkably confirmedbt itiii existing monuments,—all the greatest ar-rtaral works being referable to this period. Ofmi of government established in the Siciliani at this time we have little information, but itti certain that a democratic constitution was inat all instances substituted for the originalindue*. at prosperous as this period (B.C. 461—409)abtedly waft, it was by no means one of un-ic tranquillity. It was disturbed in the firstnoe by the ambitious schemes of Ducetius, aha chief, who endeavoured to organise all the■ </ the interior into one confederacy, whichi be able to make head against the Greeklie at the same time founded a new city, toi he gave the name of Police, near the sacredan of the t'aiici. But these attempts ofIraa, remarkable as the only instance in the1 boAtory of the island in which we find thei attempting to establish a political power of<rwa, were frustrated by his defeat and banish-by the Syracusans in n. c. 451; and thoughst men returned to Sicily and endeavoured totsh silQself on the N. coast of the island, hisu were interrupted by Ins death, b. c. 445.L xi. 88, 90—92, xii. 8, 29.) He found nom*; and the Sicels of the interior ceased toto the Greek cities. Many of theiractually reduced to subjection by thewhile others retained their independenta>, but the operation of Hellenic influencesitself throughout the whole > next important event in the history of Sicily > great Athenian expedition in u. c. 415.ry, at an earlier period, soon after the outbreak rViopurjrjeaian War, the Athenians had inter- 0 the affairs of Sicily, and, in B. c. 427, had 1 squadron under Laches and Charoeades tor. the look or Chalcidic cities in the island, which were threatened by their more powerful Dori°neighbours. But the operations of these commanders'as well as of Eurymedon and Sophocles, who fol­lowed tli.'in in B. c. 425 with a large force, were ofan unimportant character, and in B. c. 424 a generalpacification of the Greek cities in Sicily was broughtabout by a congress held at Gela (Thuc. iv. 58,65). But the peace thus concluded did not remainlong unbroken. The Syracusans took advantage <•the intestine dissensions at Leontini to expel thedemocratic party from that city: while the Selinun-tines were engaged in war with their non-Hellenicneighbours the Segestans, whom they pressed sohard that the latter were forced to apply for assis­tance to Athens. The Leontine exiles also sued foraid in the same quarter, and the Athenians, whowere at this time at the height of their power, sentout an expedition on the largest scale, nominally forthe protection of their allies in Sicily, but in reality,as Thucydides observes, in hopes of making them­selves masters of the whole island (Thuc. vi. 6).It is impossible here to relate in detail the jt i-ceedings of that celebrated expedition, which willbe more fully noticed in the article Sybacusae, andare admirably related in Grote's History of Greece,vol. viii. ch. 58—60. Its failure may be attributedin great measure to the delays and inactivity ofNicias, who lingered at Catana, instead of proceed­ing at once to besiege Syracuse itself, and thus gavothe Syracusans time to strengthen and enlarge theirfortifications, at the same time that they revived the.courage of their allies. The siege of Syracuse wasnot actually commenced till the spring of 414 B. c,and it was continued till the month of September,413 B.C., with the most unremitting exertions onboth sides. The Syracusans were supported by thechief Dorian cities in the island, with the exceptionof Agrigcntutn, which stood aloof from the contest,as well as by a portion of the Sicel tribes : but thegreater part of those barbarians, as well as theChalcidic cities of Naxos and Catana and the Stans, furnished assistance to the Athenians (Thuc.vii. 57, 58). The total defeat of the Athenian armament (byfar the most formidable that had been seen in Sicilysince that of the Carthaginians under Hamilcar),seemed to give an irresistible predominance to theDorian cities in the island, and to Syracuse especi­ally. But it was not long before they sgain foundthemselves threatened by a still more powerfulinvader. The Seiinuntines immediately took advan­tage of the failure of the Athenians to renew theirattacks upon their neighbours of Segesta, and thelatter, feeling their inability to cope with them, nourapplied for protection to Carthage. It is remarkablethat we hear nothing of Carthaginian interventionin the affairs of Sicily from the time of the battle ofHimera until this occasion, and they seem to hareabandoned all ambitious projects connected withthe island, though they still maintained a footingthere by means of their subject or dependent townsof Panormus, Motya, and Soluntum. But they nowdetermined to avail themselves of the opportunityoffered them, and sent an armament to Sicily, whichseemed like that of the Athenians, calculated notso much for the relief of Segesta as for the conquestof the whole island. Hannibal, the grandson of Ha­milcar who had been slain at Himera, laniVo llLilybaeum, in B . C. 409, with an anny estimated at100,000 mt o and inarching straight upon Selinus,laid siege a nee to the city. Selinus was at this 3 B 2