OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 159 any greater misfortune befallen us in Africa than hadat that time been experienced in Spain? Are therenow on that continent more numerous armies or bettergenerals than there were then in Spain? Was I fitterat that time of life for conducting a war than I amnow? Is a contest with a Carthaginian enemy lessdifficult in Spain than in Africa? It is an easy matter,after four Carthaginian armies routed and intirely dis­persed; after so many cities taken by force, or terri­fied into a surrender, while all places, even as far asthe ocean, have been brought under intire subjection;while so many princes, so many savage nations havebeen wholly reduced; in a word, after all Spain hasbeen reconquered, and in such a manner as that notrace of war remains ;—it is easy, I say, to depreciatethe value of my services ; just as easy, in truth, as itwill be, if I shall return victorious from Africa, tomake light of those very circumstances which are nowso greatly aggravated, and painted in such terriblecolors, for the purpose of detaining me here. It isaffirmed that no entrance can be found into Africa;that there are no harbors open to us; that Marcus Ati-lius was taken prisoner there, as if Marcus Atilins hadmiscarried on approaching that coast. But Fabiusdoes not recollect that this commander (afterwards,indeed, unfortunate) found the harbors of Africa open,and during the first year performed extraordinary ser­vices; and as far as concerned the Carthaginian gene­rals, remained unconquered to the last. The examplewhich you produce, therefore, does not in the leastdeter me. If that loss had even been sustained in thepresent war, and not in the former; if lately, andnot forty years ago, yet why should I not as wellpass into Africa after Regulus was made prisoner, asinto Spain, after the Scipios were slain; nor suffer itto be said that the birth of Xanthippus, a Lacedaemo­nian, was, by the defeat of our consul, more fortunateto Carthage, than mine to my own country? and whymight not I assume additional confidence from thatvery circumstance, that it was possible for the bravery