OCR Output LIVY. thrown into prison. When first produced by the tri­bunes, the people found no room for mercy, prepos­sessed as they were by the calamities of the Locren-sians. However, after having been repeatedly broughtforward, and the odium abating through length of time,the public resentment was softened; while the maimedcondition of Pleminius, and the respect they had forScipio, even in his absence, conciliated for them somedegree of favor. Nevertheless, Pleminius died in con­finement, and before his trial was finished. ClodiusLicinius, in the third book of his Roman history, re­lates, indeed, that this Pleminius, during the votivegames which Africanus, in his second consulate, ex­hibited at Rome, made an attempt, by means of somepersons whom he had bribed, to set fire to the city inseveral places, that he might have an opportunity ofbreaking the prison, and making his escape; and thaton the discovery of his wicked design, he was com­mitted to the dungeon by order of the senate. Con­cerning Scipio, there were no proceedings but in thesenate, where the encomiums made by all the deputiesand the tribunes on that general, his fleet, and army,induced them to vote that be should pass over intoAfrica as soon as possible; with liberty to make hisown choice from out the forces then in Sicily, whichto carry with him, and which to leave for the defenceof the province. 23. During these transactions at Rome, the Cartha­ginians, on their side, passed the winter in extremeanxiety. They fixed beacons on every promontory;kept scouts in incessant motion, every messenger fillingthem with terror. They had acquired, however, an ad­vantage of no small moment towards the defence ofAfrica,—an alliance with king Syphax; an assistance,on which they supposed the Romans to have relied,and as being their great inducement to set foot onAfrica. Hasdrubal, son of Gisgo, was not only con­nected with the king in hospitality (as has been men­tioned above, when he and Scipio happened to come tohim at the same time from Spain), but mention had been