OCR Output MEDIOLANUM. 30r, MEDOACUS. tenth Itin. it forms the terminus of a route fromGtoiorent*. [C. R. S.] MEDIOLA'NUM (MffcoXdyiov, Ptol. ii. 11. § 28),i town in the north-west of Germany, mentionedonly by Ptolemy; its site must in all probability beitienrined with the modern Meltln, on the riverYttJu. As the name Mediolanum is found only incountries inhabited by Celts, it has been supposedthat Ptolemy is wrong, and that he by mistakeplaced this town on the right bank of the Rhine;but there is no good reason for doubting that thecountry about the Vecht was at one time occupiedby a Celtic people. [L. S.] 'MEDIOMATRICI (M«oioudVp«er, ptol. ii. 9.$ 12), a people of Gallia, who belong to the divisionof Belgica. Caesar (.B. G. iv. 10) shows their posi­tion iu a general way when he says that the Rhineflows along the territories of the Sequani, Medio­matrici, Triboci or Tribocci, and Treviri. Ptolemyplaces the Mediomatrici south of the Treviri. 1 >i-Todurum (ifelz) was their capital. [Divodubum.]The diocese of Metz represents their territory, which•a accordingly west of the Votget. But Caesarwakes the Mediomatrici extend to the Rhine, andeuteqnently they bad in his time the countrybetween the Yotgct and the Rhine. And this agreeswith Strabo (p. 193), who says that the Sequaniand Mediomatrici inhabit the Rhine, among whomare settled the Tribocci, a German nation which hadcrwsed over from their own country. It appearsthen that part of the territory of the Mediomatricihad been occupied by Germans before Caesar's time;and as we know that after Caesar's time the Germantribes, Xemetes, Vangiones, and Caracates occupiedthe Gallic side of the Rhine, north of the Tribocias far as Mainz, and that north of Mainz was theterritory of the Treviri, we may infer that all thesetribes were intruders on the original territoiy of theMediomatrici. [G. L.] -MEDION. [Meteon.] MEDITERRA'NEUM MARE. [InternumM.uee] MEDMA or MESMA (M<8>q, Stepb. B.; Mi5.ua,Strab., Scymn. Ch.; but Vliaua on coins, and soAf> Jl'.lorus, cited by Stepb. B.; Scylax has Me'oa,evidently a corruption for Mttrpa: JSth. Mtouahs,M«<ruau»), a Greek city of Southern Italy, on theW. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, between Hip-posimn and the mouth of the Metaurus. (Strab. ri.f- z56: Scyl. p. 4. § 12.) It was a colony foundedby the Euiiephyrian Locrians, and is said to havederived its name from an adjoining fountain. (Strab.I c; Scymn. Ch. 308 ; Steph. B. ». v.) But thoughit ii repeatedly noticed among the Greek cities inthu part of Italy, it does not appear ever to haveattained to any great power or importance, and itscame never figures in history. It is probable, how­ever, that the Medimnaeans (MeSi^ivaioi), who arenriciced by Diodorus as contributing a body of co-Vaults to the repeopling of Mcssana by Dionysius ina.c,39o,are no other than the Medmaeans, and thatwe should read Meouaun in the passage in question.(l)iod. xiv. 78.) Though never a very conspicuous(tax, Medina seems to have survived the fall ofmany other more important cities of Magna Graecia,a»i it is noticed as a still existing town both byS*r»bo and Pliny. (Strab. /. c.; Plin. iii. 5. s. 10.)hat the name is not found in Ptolemy, and all sub­sequent trace of it disappears. It appears from^*nd» that the town itself was situated a littleukai, and that it bad a port or emporium on tie sea-shore. The exuct site has not been determined,but as the name of Mesima is still borne by a riverwhich flows into the sea a little below Nicotera,there can be no doubt that Medina was situatedsomewhere in the neighbourhood of that town, andprobably its port was at the mouth of the riverwhich still bears its name. Nicotera, the name ofwhich is already found in the Antonine Itinerary(pp. 106, 111), probably arose after the decline ofMesma. ' [E. II. B.] COIN OF MEDMA. MEDMASA (MfSfiaaa or M<8/iwr>0, a townof Caria, situated somewhere in the peninsulabetween the Ceramian and Iasian gulf, not farfrom Myndus. (I'lin. v. 29; Steph. B. ». v.;Hecat Fragm. 230.) It is probably the same townas the one which Stephanos elsewhere calls At'S-ixaaa: its site is unknown. [I.. S.j MEDOACUS or MEDUACUS (MfOdWi:Brenta). a river of Northern Italy, in the provinceof Venetia, falling into the extensive lagnnes whichborder the coast of the Adriatic, in the neighbour­hood of the modern Venice. According to Pliny(iii. 16. s. 20), there were two rivers of the name,but no other author mentions more than one, andLivy, a native of the region, mentions the "Me-duacus amnis" without any distinctive epithet.(I.iv. x. 2.) There can be no doubt that this is theriver now known as the Brenta, which is a veryconsiderable stream, rising in the mountains of theVal Sugana, and flowing near Padua (Patavium).A short distance from that city it receives the watersof the Bacckiglione, which may probably be theother branch of the Medoacus meant by Pliny.Strabo speaks of a port of the same name at itsmouth (Meooaffor \tfifiv, v. p. 213), which servedas the port of Patavium. This must evidently bethe same to which Pliny gives the name of PortusEdro, and which was formed by the "Medoaci duoac Fossa Clodia:" it is in all probability the onenow called Porto di Lido, close to Venice. Thechanges which have taken place in the configurationof the lagnnes and the channels of the rivers, whichare now wholly artificial, render the identification ofthe ports along this coast very obscure, but Strabo'sstatement that the Medoacus was navigated for adistance of 250 stadia, from the port at its mouthto Patavium, seems conclusive in favour of thePorto di Lido, rather than the more distant one ofChiozza. At the present day the Brenta flows, asit were, round the lagunes, and enters the sea atBrondolo, evidently the Portus Brundulus of Pliny(/. c.) ; while a canal called the Canale di Brenta,quitting the river of that name at Doh, holds amore direct course to the lagunes at Fugma. Thiscanal may perhaps be the Fossa Clodia of l'liny. Livy tells us that, in B.C. 301, Cleonymus theLacedaemonian arrived at the mouth of the Me­doacus, and having ascended the river with some ofhis lighter vessels, began to ravage the territory ofthe Pataviui, but that people repulsed his at­ VOL IL