OCR Output 198 EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. [B. V. and while both parties were throwing their darts at eachother, Longinus, one of the equestrian order, leaped out ofthe army of the Romans, and leaped into the very midst ofthe army of the Jews ; and as they dispersed themselves uponthis attack, he slew two of their men of the greatest courage;one of them he struck in his mouth, as he was coming to meethim ; the other was slain by him by that very dart which hedrew out of the body of the other, with which he ran thisman through his side, as he was running away from him;and when he had done this, he first of all ran out of themidst of his enemies to his own side. So this man signalizedhimself for his valor, and many there were who were am­bitious of gaining the like reputation. And now the Jewswere unconcerned at what they suffered themselves from theRomans, and were only solicitous about what mischief theycould do them ; and death itself seemed a small matter tothem, if at the same time they could but kill any one of theirenemies. But Titus took care to secure his own soldiers fromharm, as well as to have them overcome their enemies. Healso said, that inconsiderate violence Was madness, and thatthis alone was the true courage that was joined with goodconduct. He, therefore, commanded his men to take care,when they fought their enemies, that they received no harmfrom them at the same time, and thereby show themselves tobe truly valiant men. 4. And now Titus brought one of his engines to the middletower of the north part of the wall, in which a certain craftyJew, whoso name was Castor, lay in ambush, with ten otherslike himself, the rest being fled away by reason of the archers.These men lay still for a while, as in great fear, under theirbreast-plates; but when the tower was shaken, they arose,and Castor did then stretch out his hand, as a petitioner, andcalled for Caesar, and by his voice moved his compassion, andbegged of him to have mercy upon them; and Titus, in theinnocency of his heart, believing him to be in earnest, andhoping that the Jews did now repent, stopped the working ofthe battering-ram, and forbade them to shoot at the petition­ers, and bid Castor say what he had a mind to say to him.