OCR Output 454 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. •Mw^f eas*'' *ne ProsPec*; of Europe is less pleasing and lessthe ehagan glorious. By the departure of the Lombards, and theArars, ruin of the Gepida?, the balance of power was destroyed^©oof&L on tne Danube; and the Avars spread their permanentdominion from the foot of the Alps to the sea-coast ofthe Euxine. The reign of Baian is the brightest era oftheir monarchy; their chagan, who occupied the rusticpalace of Attila, appears to have imitated his characterand policy ;z but as the same scenes were repeated in asmaller circle, a minute representation of the copy wouldbe devoid of the greatness and novelty of the original.The pride of the second Justin, of Tiberius, and Mau­rice, was humbled by a proud barbarian, more prompt toinflict, than exposed to suffer the injuries of war; and asoften as Asia was threatened by the Persian arms, Eu­rope was oppressed by the dangerous inroads, or costlyfriendship of the Avars. When the Roman envoys ap­proached the presence of the chagan, they were com<.manded to wait at the door of his tent, till, at the endperhaps of ten or twelve days, he condescended to admitthem. If the substance or the style of their message wasoffensive to his ear, he insulted, with a real or affectedfury, their own dignity, and that of their prince; theirbaggage was plundered, and their lives were only savedby the promise of a richer present and a more respectfuladdress. But his sacred ambassadors enjoyed and abusedan unbounded licence in the midst of Constantinople:they urged, with importunate clamours, the increase oftribute, or the restitution of captives and deserters; andthe majesty of the empire was almost equally degradedby a base compliance, or by the false and fearful excuses*with which they eluded such insolent demands. The * A general idea of the pride and power of the chagan may be taken from Menan -der (Excerpt. Legat. p. 117, &c') and Theopbylact, (lib. 1. c. 3. lib. 7. c. 15.) whoseeight books are much more honourable to the Avar than to the Roman prince. Thepredecessors of Baian had tasted the liberality of Rome, and he survived the reign,of Maurice. (Bua, Hist. des Peuples Barbares, tom. 11. p. 545.) The chagan whoinvaded Italy A. D, 611. (Muratori, Annali, tom. 5. p. 305.) was then juvenili aetataflorentcm, (Paul Warnefrid, de Gest. Langohard, lib. 5. 0. 38.) the son, perhaps, orthe grandson of Baian.