OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 223 Ptolemy being * for this cause released from the war, he slewthe brethren of Hyrcanus, and his mother: and when he hadso done he fled to Zeno, who was called Cotylas, who was thenthe tyrant of the city of Philadelphia. 2. But Antiochus being very uneasy at the miseries thatSimon had brought upon him, he invaded Judea in the fourthyear of his reign, and the first year of the principality of Hyr­canus, in f the hundred and sixty second Olympiad. And whenhe had burnt the country, he shut up Hyrcanus in the city,which he encompassed round with seveii encampments, but didnothing at the first, because of the strength of the walls, andbecause of the valour of the besieged; although they were oncein want of water, which yet they were delivered from by a largeshower of rain, which fell at the \ setting of the Pleiades. How­ever, about the north part of the wall, where it happened thecity was upon a level with the outward ground, the king raiseda hundred towers of three stories high, and placed bodies ofsoldiers upon them, and as he made his attacks every day, hecut a double ditch, deep and broad, and confined the inhabitantswithin it as within a wall; but the besieged contrived to makefrequent sallies out, and if the enemy were not any where upontheir guard, they fell upon them, and did them a great deal ofmischief, and if they perceived them, they then retired into the citywith ease. But because Hyrcanus discerned the inconvenienceof so great a number of men in the city, while the provisionswere the sooner spent by them, and yet, as is natural to suppose * Hence we learn, that in the days of this excellent high priest, John Hyrcanus,the observation of the Sabbatic year, as Josephus supposed, required a rest from waras did that of the weekly Sabbath from work: I mean this, unless in the case of ne­cessity, when the Jews were attacked by their enemies, in which case indeed, and inwhich alone, they then allowed defensive fighting to be lawful even on the Sabbathday, as we see in several places of Josephus, Antiq. B. XII. chap. vi. § 2. B. XIII.chap. I. § 2. vol. II. Of the War, B. I. chap. vii. § 2. vol. III. But then it mustbe noted, that this rest from war no way appears in the first book of Maccabees,chap. xvi. but the direct contrary; though indeed the Jews, in the days of AntiochusEpiphanes, did not venture upon fighting on the Sabbath day, even in the defenceof their own lives, till the Asainonians or Maccabees decreed so to do, 1 Mac. ii-32—41. Antiq. B XII. chap. vii. sec. 2. . f Josephus' copies, both Greek and Latin, have here a gross mistake, when theysay, that this first year of John Hyrcanus, which we have just now seen to have beena Sabbatic year, was in the 162d Olympiad, whereas it was for certain the second yearof the 161st. See the like before, B. XII. chap. vi. sect. 6. J This heliacal setting of the Pleiades, or seven stars, was, in the days of Hyrcanusand Josephus, early in the spring, about February, the time of the latter rain inJudea, and this so far as I remember, is the only astronomical character of time, be­sides one eclipse of the moon in the reign of Herod, that we meet with in all Jose­phus, the Jews being little accustomed to astronomical observations, any farther thanfar the uses of their kalendar, and utterly forbidden those astrological uses which theheathens commonly made of them.