OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SCXL&X OOKSTnTTIOX. S55 we may so speak, a thins; necessary to the introduction ofthe new despotism, and to prosecute and make others pro­secute the work of massacre almost with indifference. Butthe reign of terror presented an appearance only the morehorrible, when it proceeded from the conservative side andwas in some measure devoid of passion; the commonwealthseemed all the more irretrievably lost, when the frenzy andthe crime on both sides were equally balanced. In regulating the relations of Italy and of the capital, Mairte-Sulla—although he generally in other instances treated as nance ofnull all state-acts done during the revolution excepting in thebnrgess-the transaction of current business—firmly adhered to the nSnt? P1*"principle, which it had laid down, that every burgess of an ferred.Italian community was ipso facto a burgess also of Some;the distinctions between burgesses and Italian allies, betweenold burgesses with better, and new burgesses with morerestricted, privileges, were and remained abolished. In thecase of the freedmen alone the unrestricted right of suffragewas again withdrawn, and the old state of matters was re­stored. To the aristocratic ultras this might seem a greatconcession; Sulla perceived that it was necessary to wrestthese mighty levers out of the hands of the revolutionarychiefs, and that the rule of the oligarchy was not materiallyendangered by increasing the number of the burgesses. But with this concession in principle was combined a Punish-most rigid inquisition, conducted by special commissioners ments in-with the co-operation of the garrisons distributed through- fllct?d »"out Italy, in respect to particular communities in all com^..ardistricts of the land. Several towns were rewarded; for in- nities.stance Brundisium, the first community which had joinedSulla, now obtained the exemption from customs so im­portant for such a sea-port; more were punished. The lessguilty were required to pay fines, to pull down their walls,to raze their citadels; in the case of those whose oppositionhad been most obstinate the regent confiscated a part oftheir territory, in some cases even the whole of it—as itcertainly might be regarded in law as forfeited, whetherthey were to be treated as burgess-communities which hadborne arms against their fatherland, or as allied stateswhich had waged war with Rome contrary to their treaties ofperpetual peace. In this case all the dispossessed burgesses—but these only—were deprived of their municipal, and at thesame time of the Roman, franchise, receiving in return the