OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL* planted in Ceylon, and the missionaries pursued the foot­steps of commerce to the extremities of Asia." TwoPersian monks had long resided in China, perhaps in theroyal city of Nankin, the seat of a monarch addicted to-foreign superstitions, and who actually received an em­bassy from the Isle of Ceylon. Amidst their pious oc­cupations they viewed with a curious eye the commondress of the Chinese, the manufactures of silk, and themyriads of silkworms, whose education (either on treesor in houses) had once been considered as the labour ofqueens/ They soon discovered that it was impracticableto transport the short-lived insect, but that in the eggsa numerous progeny might be preserved and multipliedin a distant climate. Religion or interest had morepower over the Persian monks than the love of theircountry: after a long journey, they arrived at Constan­tinople, imparted their project to the emperor, and wereliberally encouraged by the gifts and promises of Justi­nian. To the historians of that prince, a campaign at thefoot of Mount Caucasus has seemed more deserving ofa minute relation, than the labours of these missionariesof commerce, who again entered China, deceived a jea­lous people by concealing the eggs of the silkworm in ahollow cane, and returned in triumph with the spoils ofthe east. Under their direction, the eggs were hatchedat the proper season by the artificial heat of dung; theworms were fed with mulberry leaves; they lived and la­boured in a foreign climate: a sufficient number of but­terflies was saved to propagate the race, and trees wereplanted to supply the nourishment of the rising genera­tions. Experience and reflection corrected the errors ofa new attempt, and the Sogdoite ambassadors acknow­ledged, in the succeeding reign, that the Romans werenot inferior to the natives of China in the education of e See the Christian missions in India, in Cosmas, (lib. 3. p. 178, 179. lib. 11.p. 337.) and consult Aaseman. Bibliot. Orient. (tom. i. p. 413—548.) f The invention, manufacture, and general use of silk in China, may be seen inDohalde. (Description Generale de la Chine, tom. 2. p. 165. 205—223.) The pro-vince of Chckian is the most renowned both for quantity and quality.