OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL hird is taken, admonished his mistress to hasten her return. In the presence ofCaled, and of death, the unfortunate Jonas professed his belief in one God, and hisapostle Mahomet; and continued, till the season of his martyrdom, to dischargethe duties of a brave and sincere Mussulman. When the city was taken, he flewto the monastery where Eudocia had taken refuge; but the lover was forgotten;the apostate was scorned; she preferred her religion to her country; and the jus­tice of Caled, though deaf to mercy, refused to detain by force a male or femaleinhabitant of Damascus. Four days was the general confined to the city by theobligation of the treaty, and the urgent cares of his new conquest. His appetitefor blood and rapine would have been extinguished by the hopeless computationof time and distance; but he listened to the importunities of Jonas, who assuredhim that the weary fugitives might yet be overtaken. At the head of four thou­sand horse, in the disguise of Christian Arabs, Caled undertook the pursuit.They halted only for the moments of prayer; and the guide had a perfect know­ledge of the country. For a long way the footsteps of the Damascenes were plainand conspicuous: they vanished on a sudden; but the Saracens were comforted bythe assurance that the caravan had turned aside into the mountains, and mustspeedily fall into their hands. In traversing the ridges of the Libanus, they en­dured intolerable hardships, and the sinking spirits of the veteran fanatics weresupported and cheered by the unconquerable ardour of a lover. From a peasant,of the country, they were informed that the emperor had sent orders to the colonyof exiles, to pursue without delay the road of the sea-coast, and of Constantinople;apprehensive, perhaps, that the soldiers and people of Antioch might be discou­raged by the sight and the story of their sufferings. The Saracens were conductedthrough the territories of Gabala(l) and Laodicea, at a cautious distance from thewalls of the cities; the rain was incessant, the night was dark, a single mountainseparated them from the Roman army; and Caled, ever anxious for the safety ofhis brethren, whispered an ominous dream in the ear of his companion. With thedawn of day, the prospect again cleared, and they saw before them, in a pleasantvalley, the tents of Damascus. After a short interval of repose and prayer, Caleddivided his cavalry into four squadrons, committing the first to his faithful Derar,and reserving the last for himself. They successively rushed on the promiscuousmultitude, insufficiently provided with arms, and already vanquished by sorrowand fatigue. Except a captive who was pardoned and dismissed, the Arabs en­joyed the satisfaction of believing that not a Christian of either sex escaped theedge of their scimitars. The gold and silver of Damascus was scattered fiver thecamp, and a royal wardrobe of three hundred load of silk might clothe an armyof naked barbarians. In the tumult of the battle, Jonas sought and found the objectof his pursuit; but her resentment was inflamed by the last act of his perfidy; andas Eudocia struggled in his hateful embraces, she struck a dagger to her heart. .Another female, the widow of Thomas, and the real or supposed daughter of He-raclius, was spared and released without a ransom; but the generosity of Caledwas the effect of his contempt; and the haughty Saracen insulted, by a message ofdefiance, the throne of the Csesars. Caled had penetrated above a hundred andfifty miles into the heart of the Roman province: he returned to Damascus withthe same secrecy and speed. On the accession of Omar, the sword of God wasremoved from the command; but the caliph, who blamed the rashness) was com­pelled to applaud the vigour and conduct, of the enterprise. Another expedition of the conquerors of Damascus will equally display theiravidity and their contempt for the riches of the present world. They were inform­ed that the produce and manufactures of the country were annually collected inthe fair of Abyla,(2) about thirty miles from the city; that the cell of a devout her­mit was visited at the same time by a multitude of pilgrims; and that the festival oftrade and superstition would be ennobled by the nuptials of the daughter of the go­vernor of Tripoli. Abdallah, the son of Jaafar, a glorious and holy martyr, un­dertook, with a banner of five hundred horse, the pious and profitable commissionof despoiling the infidels. As he approached the fair of Abyla, he was astonished (1) The towns of Gabala and Laodicea, which the Arabs passed, still exist in a state of decay. (Maundrell, p.11,12. Pocock, vol. ii. p. 13.) Had not the Christians been overtaken, they must have crossed the Orontes onsome bridge in the sixteen miles between Antioch and the sea, and might have rejoined the high road of Con­stantinople at Alexandria. The itineraries wilt represent the directions and distances, (p. 146.148. 531, 582,edit. Wesselinir.) (2) Dair Abil Kudos. After retrenching the last word, the epithet, holy, I discovered the Abiln of Lysania*between Damascus and Heliopolis: the name (Abil signifies a vineyard) concurs with the situation to "justifyrny conjecture. (Reland. Paleslin. torn. i. p. 517. torn. ii. p. 525. 527.)