OCR Output .1-2 MEVANTA. METROPOLIS. Lydia, on the road from Smyrna to Ephesus, at adistance of 120 stadia from Kphesus, and 180 fromSmyrna. The district of Metropolis produced ex­cellent wine. (Strab. xiv. pp. 632, 637; l'tol. v. 2.§ 17; Steph. B. t. r.; Plin. v. 31; Hierocl. p. 600.)Near the modem Tillage of Tourbuli, no doubt acorruption of the ancient name Metropolis, someruins are still seen; and as their distance fromSmyrna and Ephesus agrees with that mentionedby Strabo, there can be no hesitation in identifyingthe place. (Comp. Arandell, Secen Churcha, p. 22,&c; Hamilton, Research*, i. p. 542; Uasche,Lexic. Num. iii. 1, p. 633, &c.) 2. A town in the north of Phrygia, and, as thename seems to indicate, the capital of the ancientkings of Phrygia, though Stephanus Byz. (s. p.)derives the name from the mother of the gods. Itwas sitnated to the north of Synnada (Athen. xiii.p. 574.), and must not be confounded with anothertown of the same name in the south of Phrygia.Ita site is, in all probability, indicated by the ruinsof ISsmeth Kalasi, north of Doganlu, which showa very antique stylo of architecture, and mainlyconsist of tombs cut into the rocks; one of thesetombs is that of king Midas. Leake (Atia Minor,p. 24) is inclined to think that these ruins markthe site of Nicoleia; but other travellers, appa­rently with more justice, identify them with Metro­polis. (Franz, Funf Inschriflen, p. 42.) Fromthe extent of the ruins, it would seem that in thetime of the Roman emperors Metropolis was an im­portant town ; but afterwards it declined, though itis still mentioned by Hierocles (p. 677.) 3. A town in the southern part of Phrygia, be­longing to the conventus of Apamca. (Plin. v. 29.)That this town is different from No. 2, is quite evi­dent, even independently of the fact that StephanusB. mentions two towns of the name of Metropolis inPhrygia, and that Hierocles and the Notitiae sj>eakof a town of this name in two different provinces ofPhrygia. (Hierocl. p. 673; Strab. xii. p. 576, xiv. p.603; Liv. xxxviii. 15.) [L. S.] METKO'POLIS (MnraeVoXir, Ptol. iii. 5. § 28),a town of European Sannatia, on the Borrsthcnea,nearOlbia. [E.B. J.] METKO'POLIS (MtitooVoXij: Eth. Kirrpo-ro.AiTjjt). I. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessalv, de­scribed by Stephanus B. (*. v.) as a town in UpperThessalv. Strabo says (ix. p. 438), that Metropoliswas founded by three insignificant towns, but that alarger number was afterwards added, among whichwas Ithome. He further says, that Ithome waswithin a quadrangle, formed by the four cities Tricca,Meirojiolis, IVliunaeum, and (lomphi. The positionof Metropolis is also determined by its being onCaesar's march from Gomphi to Pharsalns. (Caes.B C. hi. 81; Appian, B. C. ii. 64; Dion Cass,xli. 51.) It was taken by Klamininus on his de­scending into this part of Thes^aly, after the battleof the Aous, B.C. 198. (Liv. xxxii. 15.) Welearn from an inscription that the territory of Me­tropolis adjoined that of C-ierium (the ancient Arne),and that the adjustment of their boundaries was afrequent subject of discussion between the twopeoples. [ClKRU'M.] Metropolis is mentioned inthe sixth century by Hierocles (p. 642), and con-tinned to exist in the middle ages under the nameof Neo-Patrae (New Uirpai, Constant. >/r Them.ii. p. 50, ed. Bonn). The remains if Mt-trojxilis areplaced by Leake at the small village of J'aleokatlro,about 5 miles S\V. of KardliiUa. The city was of a circular form, and in the centre of th* cards arethe vestiges of a circular citadel, part of the wall sfwhich still exists in the yard of the village choreaof Paledktutro, where is a collection of the sruh>.tured or inscribed remains found upon the •,.<within late years. Among other sculptures Leaksnoticed one in low relief, representing a figure testedupon a rock, in long drapery, and a mountain r*accin face of the figure, at the foot of which there is aman in a posture of adoration, while on the lop rfthe mountain there are other men, one of wboraholds a hog in his hands. Leake conjectured withgreat probability that the seated figure rrprcsealithe Aphrodite of Metropolis, to whom Strahn sayi(L c.) that hogs were offered in sacrifice. (Leak/,Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 506.) 2. Another town in Thessalv, which StephanosB. calls simply a town in Thessalv. This appearsto be the Metropolis mentioned by Livy in his ac­count of the campaign of Antiochus, in B. c 191,where it is related that the Syrian king hatinglanded at Dcmetrias, first took Pherae, then Crannoo,then Cypaera, Metropolis, and all the neighboorirgfortresses, except Atrax and Gyrton, and afterward,proceeded to Larissa. (Liv. xxxvi. 10.) r'nauthis account it would appear that this Mrtroj.jjjwas in Perrhaebia; and its site has been discoveredby Leake, near thai of Atrax, at a place calledKastri, where the name of MirrpowoArrnt occurs man inscription. (Leake, Noriiiern Greece, voL iiip. 371.) 3. (F.ygoritzi), a town in the interior cf Arar-nania, S. of Stratus, and on the road from the latterplace to Conope in Aetolia. At a later time it feflinto the hands of the Aetolians. but was taken andburned by Philip in his expedition against theAetolians, B. c. 219. It is mentioned as one of thetowns of Acamania, in a Greek inscription found atActium, the date of which is probably pri'ir to thetime of Augustus. (Polyb. iv. 64; Steph. B, *.».;Bijckh, Corpus Imcript. Xo. 1793; Leake, NorlkermGreece, vol. iii. p. 576.) 4. A town in Amphilochia, near Olpae. (Thoe.iii. 107.) As to its site, see Asooa Anmux>-cmri'M. 5. A town of Doris. (Steph. B. i. r.) 6. A town of Euboea. (Steph. B. I r.)MKTULUM. [Uroi.KS, Vol. II. p. 36-]MEVA'NIA (Mnoiwfa. Strab., Ptol: Etk. Me~ vanas, atis: Beragna), a considerable city of Umbras,on the Flaminian Way, between Carsukse and FsaVginium. It was situated on the river Tmia, ia abroad and fertile valley, which extends from theneighbourhood of Spoletium to the Tiber, separatiri*tho main chain of the Apennines from a later*] ma*or offshoot of the same range, which extend, fraeaMrvania and Spoletium to Tuder ami Anuria. Itis this valley, about 8 or 10 miles in breadth, wateredby the Clitumnus and Tinia, with several tributarystreams, the pastures of which were celebrated f*rtheir breed of white oxen, the only ones thcorMworthy to be sacrificed as Tictims on triumphal aadother solemn occasions. Hence their praises are rrcless frequently associated with the name r/ Mrvaxrathan with that of tba Clitumnus. (Colum. tia. 8;Sil. Ital. ri. 647, viii. 458; Locan, i. 473.) aV-vania appears to have been an imporlant place Vr«*»the Roman conquest of this foirt of Italy. Ib ft. c308 it was chosen by the Uinbrian* as the b*ml-qnarters of their assembled forces, when they w«v«defeated by Q. Fabius. (Liv. ix. 41.) At a i