OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .325 and, holy martyrdom of his disciple Nestorius, whose person and language wereequally unknown to the nations beyond the Tigris. The first indelible lesson ofIbas, bishop of Edessa, taught them to execrate the £gyfitiant, who, in the synodof Ephesus, had impiously confounded the two natures of Christ, The flight ofthe masters and scholars, who were twice expelled from the Athens of Syria, dis­persed a crowd of missionaries, inflamed by the double zeal of religion and revenge.And the rigid unity of the Monophysites, who, under the reigns of Zeno andAnastasius, had invaded the thrones of the east, provoked their antagonists, in aland of freedom, to avow a moral, rather than a physical union of the twO personsof Christ. Since the first preaching of the gospel, the Sassanian kings beheld,with an eye of suspicion, a race of aliens and apostates, who had embraced thereligion, and who might favour the cause, of the hereditary foes of their country.The royal edicts had often prohibited their dangerous correspondence with theSyrian clergy; the progress of the schism was grateful to the jealous pride of Pe-rozes; and he listened to the eloquence of an artful prelate who painted Nestoriusas the friend of Persia, and urged him to secure the fidelity of his Christian sub­jects, by granting a just preference to the victims and enemies of the Roman ty­rant. The Nestorians composed a large majority of the clergy and people: theywere encouraged by the smde, and armed with the sword of despotism; yet manyof their weaker brethren were startled at the thought of breaking loose from thecommunion of the Christian world, and the blood of seven thousand seven hundredMonophysites or catholics, confirmed the uniformity of faith and discipline in thechurches of Persia. (1) Their ecclesiastical institutions are distinguished by aliberal principle of reason, or at least of policy: the austerity of the cloister wasrelaxed and gradually forgotten; houses of charity were endowed for the educa­tion of orphans and foundlings; the law of celibacy, so forcibly recommended tothe Greeks and Latins, was disregarded by the Persian clergy; and the number ofthe elect was multiplied by the public and reiterated nuptials of the priests, thebishops, and even the patriarch himself. To this standard of natural and religiousfreedom, myriads of fugitives resorted from all the provinces of the eastern em­pire: the narrow bigotry of Justinian was punished by the emigration of his mostindustrious subjects; they transported into Persia the arts both of peace and war:and those who deserved the favour, were promoted in the service of a discerningmonarch. The arms of Nushirvan, and his fiercer grandson, were assisted with ad­vice, and money, and troops, by the desperate sectaries who still lurked in theirnative cities of the east: their zeal was rewarded with the gift of the catholicchurches; but when those cities and churches were recovered by Heraclius, theiropen profession of treason and heresy compelled them to seek a refuge in therealm of their foreign ally. But the seeming tranquillity of the Nestorians wasoften endangered, and sometimes overthrown. They were involved in the com­mon evils of oriental despotism: their enmity to Rome could not always atone fortheir attachment to the gospel: and a colony of three hundred thousand Jacobites,the captives of Apamea and Antioch,- was permitted to erect a hostile altar in theface of the catholic, and in the sunshine of the court. In his last treaty, Justinianintroduced some conditions which tended to enlarge and fortify the toleration ofChristianity in Persia. The emperor, ignorant of the rights of conscience, wasincapable of pity or esteem for the heretics who denied the authority of the holysynods: but he flattered himself that they would gradually perceive the temporalbenefits of union with the empire and the church of Rome; and if he failed in ex­citing their gratitude, he might hope to provoke the jealousy of their sovereign.In a later age, the Lutherans have been burnt at Paris, and protected in Germa­ny, by the superstition and policy of the most Christian king. The desire of gaining souls for God, and subjects for the church, has excited inevery age the diligence of the Christian priests. From the conquest of Persiathey carried their spiritual arms to the north, the east, and the south; and the sim­plicity of the gospel was fashioned and painted with the colours of the Syriac the­ology. In the sixth century, according to the report of a Nestorian traveller, (2) .(l) A dissertation on the state of the Nestorians has swelled in the hand* of Assemanni to a folio volume ofnine hundred and fifty pa£es,aml his learned researches are digested i'> the most lucid order. Resides (hisfourth volume of the RibliothecaOrier.tftlis,the extracts in the three preceding tomes (torn. i. p. 203. ii. p.331—483. iii. 64~7o. 378—395, &e. 403—408. 580— 589.) may be usefuily consulted. (3) See the Topoerraphia Chrtstiani of Cosmas, surnamed Indico-pleustes, on the Indian navigator, !ib.-iii. p.178,179. lib. ai. p. 337. The entire work,of which some curious extracts may te found in Photius (Cad. ixxvl. Vox.. III. -29