OCR Output 640 PLATAEA.I vantage of it to restore the Plataeans to their nativecity. (Pans ix. 1. § 4; bocrat Plataic.§ 13,aeq.)But the Plataeans did not long retain possession oftheir city, for in B.C. 372 it was surprised by theThebans and again destroyed. The Plataeans werecompiled once more to seek refuge at Athens.(I'aus. ix. 1. 5—8; Diodor. xv. 46.) The wrongsdmie to the Plataeans by Thebes are set forth in aspeech of Isocrates. entitled IHutaictis, which wasperhaps actually delivered at this time by a PlatacanhjH'aker before the public assembly at Athens.(Grotc's Greece, vol. x. p. 220.) After the battleof Chaeroneia (ii. c. 338) the Plataeans were oncemore restored to their city by Philip. (Paus. ix. 1.§ 8, iv. 27. § 11.) It was shortly after this timethat Plataea was visited by Dicaearchus, who callsthe Plataeans 'Attymloi BotafToi', and remarks thatthey have nothing to say fur themselves, excepttli.it they are colonists of the Athenians, and thattlie battle between the Greeks and the Persians tookplace near their town. (Dtscript. Grate, p. 14,Hudson.) After its restoration by Philip, the city continuedto be inhabited till the latest times. It was visitedby Pausanias, who mentions three temples, one ofHera, another of Athena Areia, and a third uf I>e-lncter Kleusinia. Pausanias speaks of only one tem­ple of Hera, which he describes as situated withinthe city, and worthy of admiration on account of itsmagnitude anil of the offerings with which it wasadorned (ix. 2. § 7). This was apparently tlie templebuilt by the Thebans after the destruction of Plataea.(Time, iii. 68.) It is probable that the old templeof Hera mentioned by Herodotus, and which he de­scribes as outside the city (ix. 52), was no longerrepaired after the erection of the new one. and haddisappeared before the visit of Pausanias. Thetemple of Athena Areia was built according to Pau­sanias (ix. 4. § 1) out of a share of tlie spoils ofMarathon, but according to Plutarch (Arut. 20)with the 80 talents out of the spoil* of Plataea, asmentioned above. The temple was adorned withpictures by Polygnotus and Onatas, and with a statueof the goddess by Pbeidias. Of the temple of J>e-ineter Kleusinia we have no details, but it was pro­bably erected in consequence of the battle havingbeen fought near a temple of Demeter Kleusinia atArpopius. (Herod, ix. 57.) The temple of ZeusKlcutherius (Strab. ix. p. 4P2) seems to have beenreduced in the time of Pausanias to an altar and astatue. It was situated outside the city. (Paus. 2- $ Plataea is mentioned in the sixth century byHieroclea (p. 645, Weaseling) among the cities ofBoeotia; and its walls were restored by Justinian.(Procop. dc Atdif. iv. 2.) The ruins of Plataea are situated near tlie smallvillage of Kokhla. The circuit of the walls maystill be traced in great part. They are about twomiles and a half in circumference; but this was thesize of the city restored by Philip, for not only isthe earlier city, before its destruction by the The­bans, described by Thucydides (ii. 77) as small, butwe h"nd at the southern extremity of the existingremains more ancient masonry than in any otherpart of the ruins. Hence Leake supposes that theancient city was confined to this part. He observesthat " the masonry in general, both of the Acropolisand of the town, lias tlie appearance of not being soold as the time of the battle. The greater part isol the fourth order, but mixed with portions of a less regular kind, alkmasonry. The Acncan be so called, whutlie site, is constructeevidently been takentowers of this citadtflanks to the inner asintermediate walls. 1towers, like those of tAbove the southern vof a third inclosure; ithan the rest, and isas the Persian WarAcropolis of the Plata rocky height, and tangle, which is onlyyards from tlie foot ofroo. This inclosureany other part of thethe village of KokhUdistant to the E.eastern side along a Inearly as far as the sinclosui"e of tlie city,inclosure are some fra(Northern Grctc^Kriederich, SjtedmenMunscher, l)Us. dc 1 PLATAMO'DKS. PLATANISTAS. PLATANISTONtain in Messenia, nea[Cokone.] 2. A river of AnXeda, flowing westw;necessary to cross in39. § 1,: Leake, Mm PLATAN'LSTUSern promontory of Cj 2. Another name cof Triphvlia in Elis. PLATA'NIUS (Eflowing by Corseia in PLATANUS (nStadiasmus (§§ 178A.-pera, 350 stadiadistance is incorrect,tween the plain ofAmtmur, a distancerocky hills forming tby narrow valleys, wrents to the sea. Tlthe other is halfwaywmr.n The latter, ttanas, that is, aboutThe whole of thatdangerous to navigatname of Platanistustanus. (Leake. Asm PLA'TANUS (n> $, V. nAOTCUTf; Jos riAciTai'fi''s), a townseplius (/. c.) as asituated ui>ou a pa&