OCR Output THISOA. 1175 THORICUS. m one aide of tlic causeway, while that on the other.-> cultivated. The ruins of Thisbe are found atKuhvia. * The position is between two great sam- ili of the mountain, now called Karamuitghi andV,%Uumui, which rise majestically above the vale, <\md with trees, in the upper purt, and covered<>th snow at Uie top. The modem village lies in am»9 hollow surrounded on all sides by low cliffsxrfinected with the last falls of the mountain. Therails of Thisbe were about a mile, in circuit, follow-■ • the crest of the cliffs which surround the village;Ikt an chiefly preserved on the aide towards''"hrctkd and the south-east. The masonry is fur> most part of the fourth order, or faced with1411a] layers of large, oblong, quadrangular stones onbe uutside, ihe interior as usual being filled withrubble. On the principal height which lies<<wi.nl* the mountain, and which is an entire mass< ruck, appear some reparations of a later date thanhe real of the walls, and there are many Hellenicftiodations on the face of this rock towards theIn the cliffs outside the walls, to the north-rwt and south, there are many sepulchral excava-ian*," (Leake, XortAcr* Greece, vol. ii. p. 506.)>ake observed the mole or causeway which Pausa-describes, and which serves for a road across theitarsh to the port. The same writer remarks that,u the plain of Thisbe is completely surrounded byifijrhta, there is no issue for the river which rises inae Ascraea and here terminates. "The river crosseslie causeway into the marsh by two openings, theiouof of which in the winter or spring would atmy time cause the upper part of the plain to bo in-mUtal, and leave the lower fit for cultivation inJmminer; but as the river is now allowed to flowiti-tantly through tbein, the western side is alwaysit a ktate of marsh, and the ground has become:>'irh higher on the eastern side." The port of Thisbe is now called Vathy. Thetare is very rocky, and abounds in wild pigeons, as-tnbo and Stephanu* have observed; but there istttfi a considerable number at Kakusia itself. Thev rrun poets also allude to the pigeons of Thihbe,Hence Orid (i/et xi. 3(H)) speaks of the u This,awe columbae,'* and Statius (Theb. vii. 261) de-• ribe* Thisbe as ** Dionaeis avibus circunisona."I>ital« is mentioned both by Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) andtokuj (iii. J 5. § 20). THISOA- [Tukiboa.] Till US. [ M kqa lopous. ] THMUIS (t»pouh, Herod, ii. 168; Aristides,IfypL vol. iii. p. 610; Ptol. iv. 5. § 51), thenouern Tmai, was a town in Lower Aegypt, aitu-tfad upon a canal K. of the Nile, between its Tanite1:1,i MeaoVian branches. It was the capital uf the[Lnniite Sotoe, in which the Calasirian division oflw Aesyptian army possessed lands. At the time■f Herodotua's visit to the Delta the Thmuite Koineiau been ii)eoq*irated with the Mende&ian. Their:-o*rp*catioo was doubtless owing, partly to theluperiorsixe of the latter, and partly to their having1 "nt rrwn object of worship in the goat Mendesof whom Thmu was in the old Aegyptiani»;uage(Hieronym.ia Isaiam, xlvi. l)the appella-."Q. In the reigns of Valenlinian and Theodosiusn* Great {a. v. 375, foil.) Thmuis was a town of1 consequence, governed by its own magistrates,rod exempt from the jurisdiction of the Alexandriandetect (Arnni. Marc. xxii. 16. § 6). It was alsoli rpi*copal s*e, and one uf its bishops, Scrap ion, is/iY:.iioued by Hcracleanus. {ftp. Plwtium, p. 65, ed. Bekker.) Remains of the ancient city are supposedto exist at Tel-etmai or 'Tmai, SW. of Afansoorah,A monolithal shrine and many sarcophagi of granitehave been found there, and a factitious mound atthe village of Temay, raised above the level of theinundation, is probably an Aegyptian work. (Cham-poll ion, Egypte sous les Pharaons, vol. ii. p. 114.)That dykes were essential to the preservation of thecity appears from the description of it by Aristides(/. a), who represents Thmuis as standing upon andsurrounded by flat and marshy grounds. [W.B.D.] THOAE. [Echinades.] THOANA. [Thana] TIK/AKIS or THOA'KIUS (Boo^f or eod>or),a small coast river in Pontus Polemoniacus (Aman,PeripL P. E. p. 16; Anon. PeripL P. E. p. 11), isnow called Ghsureh, Irmak, or perhaps more cor­rectly Thureh Irmak. (Hamilton, Researches, i. p.279.) [L. S.] THO'CNIA (ewWa, Burma: Eth. Bawfi/*), atown of Arcadia in the district Parrhasia, situatedupon a height on the river Aminius. which flows intothe Helisson, a tributary of the Alpheius. The townwas said to have been founded by Thocnus, the sonof Lycaon, and was deserted in the time of Pau-aanias, as its inhabitants had been removed to Me­galopolis. It is placed by Leake in the position ofVromose'la, (Pans. viii. 3. § 2, 27. § 4, 29. § 5;Stcph. B. «.*.; Leake. Morea, vol. ii. p. 293.) THOMNA. [Tamka.] TH0XIT1S LACUS. [Tnospms.] THORAE. [Attica, p. 331, a.] THOWCUS (Bofuiror: Eth. SopUios: Therik6\a town of Attica on the SE. coast, and about 7 or 8milea X. of the promontory of Sunium, was origi­nally one of the twelve citiea into which Attica issaid to have been divided before the time of Theseus,and was afterwards a demus belonging to the tribeAcainanlis. (Sirab. ix. p. 397.) It continued tobe a place of importance during the flourishingperiod of Athenian history, as its existing remainsprove, and was hence fortified by the Athenians in the24th year of the Peloponnesian War. (Xen. Hell. i.2. § 1.) It was distant 60 stadia from Anaphlystusupon the western coast. (Xen. de Vect. 4. § 43.)Thoricus is celebrated in mythology as the residenceof Cepbalus, whom Eos or Aurora carried off todwell with the gods. (Apollod. ii. 4. § 7; Eurip.HtpjHfi 455.) It has been conjectured by Words­worth, with much probability, that the idea of Tho­ricus was associated in the Athenian mind with audia translation to the gods, and that the ** Thoricimistone" (BoptKios wtrpos) mentioned by Stplioolea(Qed. Col. 1595), respecting which there has been bomuch doubt, probably lias reference to such a migra­tion, as the poet is describing a similar translationof Oedipus. The fortifications of Thoricus surrounded a smallplain, which terminates in the harbour of the city,now called Porto Mandri. The ruins of the wallsmay be traced following the crest of the hills on thenorthern and southern sides of the plain, and cross­ing it on the west. The acropolis peetna to havestood upon a height rising above the sheltered creekof Frang6 Ltmiona, which ia separated only by acape from Pvrto Mandri. Below this height, onthe northern side, are the ruins of a theatre, of asingular form, being an irregular curve, with one ofthe sides longer than the other. In the [ lain, to thewestward, are the remains of a quadrangular colon­nade, with Doric columns. (Leake, Demi of A ttica, 4 F 4