OCR Output 0. IV.] THE TEMPLE GATES. 2G7 house, and fight us thence, yet ought we not to revenge our足selves on things that are inanimate instead of the men them足selves ; and that he was not in any case for burning down sovast a work as that was, because this would be a mischief tothe Romans themselves, as it would be an ornament to theirgovernment while it continued." So Fronto, and Alexander,and Cerealis, grew bold upon that declaration, and agreed tothe opinion of Titus. Then was this assembly dissolved,when Titus had given order to the commanders that the restof their forces should lie still, but that they should make useof such as were most courageous in this attack. So he com足manded that the chosen men that were taken out of thecohorts should make their way through the ruins, and quenchthe fire. 4. Now, it is true, that on this day the Jews were so weary,and under such consternation, that they refrained from anyattacks. But on the next day they gathered their whole forcetogether, and ran upon those that guarded the outward courtof the temple very boldly through the east gate, and thisabout the second hour of the day. These guards receivedthat their attack with great bravery, and by covering them足selves with their shields before, as if it were with a wall, theydrew their squadrons close together; yet was it evident thatthey could not abide there very long, but would be ovcrbornoby the multitude of those that sallied out upon them, and bythe heat of their passion. However, Caesar seeing, from thetower of Antonia, that this squadron was likely to give way,he sent some chosen horsemen to support them. Hereuponthe Jews found themselves not able to sustain their onset,and, upon the slaughter of those in the forefront, many ofthe rest were put to flight. But as the Romans were goingoff, the Jews turned upon them, and fought them; and asthose Romans came back upon them, they retreated again,until about the fifth hour of the day they were ovcrborne, andshut themselves up in the inner [court of the] temple. 5. So Titus retired into the tower of Antonia, and resolvedto storm the temple the next day, early in the morning, withhis whole army, and to encamp round about the holy house.