OCR Output 530 [book ht. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, selves; and had great plenty of provisions.He also went thence, and resolved to destroythose robbers that dwelt in the caves, anddid much mischief in the country. So hesent a troop of horsemen, and three compa­nies of armed footmen, against them. Theywere very near a village called Arbela. Andon the fortieth day after he came himself,with his whole army. And as the enemysallied out boldly upon him, the left wing ofhis army gave way. But appearing with abody of men, put those to flight who werealready conquerors, and recalled his menthat ran away. He also pressed upon hisenemies, and pursued them as far as the riverJordan, though they ran away by differentroads. So he brought over to him all Gali­lee, excepting those that dwelt in the caves;and distributed money to every one of hissoldiers, giving them a hundred and fiftydrachmae apiece, and much more to theircaptains; and sent them into winter quarters.At which time Silo came to him, and his com­manders with him, because Antigonus wouldnot give them provisions any longer; for hesupplied them for no more than one month.Nay he had sent to all the country about, andordered them to carry off the provisions thatwere there, and retire to the mountains, thatthe Romans might have no provisions to liveupon, and so might perish by famine. ButHerod committed the care of that matter toPheroras, his youngest brother, and orderedhim to repair Alexandrium. Accordingly hequickly made the soldiers abound with greatplenty of provisions, and rebuilt Alexandrium,which had been before desolate. About this time it was that Antony con­tinued some time at Athens; and Ventidius,who was now in Syria, sent for Silo, and com­manded him to assist Herod in the first placeto finish the present war, and then to send fortheir confederates, for the war they them­selves were engaged in. But as for Herod,he went in haste against the robbers thatwere in the caves, and sent Silo away to Ven­tidius while he marched against them. Thesecaves were in mountains that were exceedingabrupt; and in their middle were no otherthan precipices, with certain entrances intothe caves; and those caves were encom­passed with sharp rocks. And in these didthe robbers lie concealed, with all their fa­ milies about them. But the king caused cer­tain chests to be made, in order to destroythem, and to be hung down, bound aboutwith iron chains, by an engine, from the topof the mountains. It being not possible toget up to them by reason of the sharp ascentof the mountains; nor to creep down to themfrom above. Now these chests were filledwith armed men, who had long hooks in theirhands, by which they might pull out such asresisted them, and then tumble them down,and kill them by so doing. But the lettingthe chests down proved to be a matter ofgreat danger, because of the vast depth theywere to be letdown; although they had theirprovisions in the chests themselves. Butwhen the chests were let down, and not oneof those in the mouths of the caves durstcome near them, but lay still out of fear, someof the armed men girt on their armour, andby both of their hands took hold of the chainby which the chests were let down, and wentinto the mouths of the caves, because theyfretted that such delay was made, by the rob­bers not daring to come out of the caves.And when they were at any of these mouths,they first killed many of those that were inthe mouths with their darts; and afterwardpulled those to them that resisted them, withtheir hooks, and tumbled them down the pre­cipices, and afterwards went into the caves,and killed many more; and then went intotheir chests again, and lay still there. Butupon this, terror seized the rest, when theyheard the lamentations that were made; andthey despaired of escaping. However, whenthe night came on, that put an end to thewhole work. And as the king proclaimedpardon by a herald to such as deliveredthemselves up to him. many accepted of theoffer. The same method of assault was madeuse of the next day: and they went farther,and got out in baskets to fight them, andfought them at their doors, and sent fireamong them, and set their caves on fire; forthere was a great deal of combustible matterwithin them. Now there was one old manwho was caught within one of these caves,with a wife and seven children; these prayedhim to give them leave to go out, and yieldthemselves up to the enemy: but he stood atthe cave's mouth, and always slew that childof his who went out, until he had destroyed