OCR Output 2+ THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR: B.V. ance. And at length, necessitated to dissolve the treatyconcluded at the ten years period, they engaged afreshin open war. The same Thucydides, an Athenian, hath alsocompiled an account of these latter transactions in a re­gular series, according to the summers and winters,down to that period of time when the Lacedæmoniansand their allies put an end to the empire of Athens, andbecame masters of the Icng-walls and the Piræus. Thewhole continuance of the war to this period was twenty*seven years. And, if any man be inclined to think thatthis intervening accommodation mould not be reckonedas war, he will find no arguments to support his opini­on: For, let him only survey the transactions as they aredistinctly related, and he will find it an absurdity to pro?nounce that an interval of peace, in which neither allthe restitutions were made, nor the benesits obtained,which the mutual stipulations required. And, settingthese considerations aside, in the Mantinean and Epidau-ric and other wars, transgressions were committed onboth sides. The confederates also of Thrace continuedstill to be as great enemies as ever. And the Bœotiansnever agreed to more than a bare cessation of arms, re*newable every tenth day. Including, therefore, the first war, which lasted tenyears, and that suspicious interval which ensued, andended at last in a second open rupture, the whole conti­nuance, if computed by summers and winters, will turnout, upon enquiry, to have been so many years, andsome few additional days. And such as laid stress up*on the predictions of oracles can assent only to this com­putation as genuine. For my own part, I perfectlywell remember that, not only at the commencement,but even during the whole course, of the war, manysuch predictions were gi ^:n out, that " it must needs"continue three times nine years." I also lived through. jts whole extent, jn the very flower of my understand­ing and strength, and with a close application of my thoughts