OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 237 the laws: and the misconduct of either party might chap.afford, under another name, a future subject for an' action of theft. To this loose and voluntary com­pact, religious and civil rites were no longer essential;and, between persons of a similar rank, the apparentcommunity of life was allowed as sufficient evidenceof their nuptials. The dignity of marriage was re­stored by the Christians, who derived all spiritualgrace from the prayers of the faithful and the bene­diction of the priest or bishop. The origin, validity,and duties of the holy institution, were regulated bythe tradition of the synagogue, the precepts of thegospel, and the canons of general or provincial sy­nods; and the conscience of the Christians was awedby the decrees and censures of their ecclesiasticalrulers. Yet the magistrates of Justinian were notsubject to the authority of the church: the emperorconsulted the unbelieving civilians of antiquity, andthe choice of matrimonial laws in the Code and Pan­dects is directed by motives of justice, policy, andthe natural freedom of both sexes *. Besides the agreement of the parties, the essence Liberty andof every rational contract, the Roman marriage re- divorce.quired the previous approbation of the parents. Afather might be forced by some recent laws to supplythe wants of a mature daughter; but even his in­sanity was not generally allowed to supersede thenecessity of his consent. The causes of the dissolu­tion of matrimony have varied among the Romans;but the most solemn sacrament, the confarreation it­self, might always be done away by rites of a contrarytendency. In the first ages, the father of a familymight sell his children, and his wife was reckoned in the * The civil laws of marriage are exposed in the Institutes (1. i. tit. x), thePandects (1. xxiii, xxiv, xxv), and the Code (1. v), but as the title de ritu nuptiarumis yet imperfect, we are obliged to explore the fragments of Ulpian (tit. ix. p. 590,591), and the Collatio Legum Mosaicarum (tit , xvi. p. 790, 791), with the Notesof Pithieus and Shulting. They find, in the Commentary of Servius (on the 1stGeorgic and the 4th flSneid), two curious passages.