OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 327 Quintus Metellus, who had fortunately escaped the mur­derers, made an attempt to hold that province for theOptimates; Marcus Crassus, the youngest son of the PubliusCrassus who had perished in the Marian massacre, wentto him from Spain, and reinforced him by a band which hehad collected there. But on their quarrelling with eachother they were obliged to yield to Gaius Fabius Hadrianus,the governor appointed by the revolutionary government.Asia was in the hands of Mithradates; consequently theprovince of Macedonia, so far as it was in Sulla's power,remained the only asylum of the exiled oligarchy. Sulla'swife and children who had with difficulty escaped death,and not a few senators who had made their escape, soughtrefuge there, so that a sort of senate was soon formed athis head-quarters. The government did not fail to issue Measuresdecrees against the oligarchical proconsul. Sulla was deprived againstby the comitia of his command and of his other honours and Sulla'dignities and outlawed, as was also the case with Metellus,Appius Claudius, and other refugees of note; his house inBome was razed, his country estates were laid waste. Butsuch proceedings did not settle the matter. Had GaiusMarius lived longer, he would doubtless have marched inperson against Sulla to those fields whither the feveredvisions of his death-bed drew him; the measures whichthe government took after his death have been statedalready. Lucius Valerius Flaccus the younger,* who afterMarius' death was invested with the consulship and thecommand in the East (068), was neither soldier nor officer; 86.Gaius Fimbria who accompanied him was not without * Lucius Valerius Flaccus, whom the Fasti name as consul in GG8, was not 86. the consul of 654, but a younger man of the same name, perhaps son of the 100.preceding. For, first, the law which prohibited re-election to the consulshipremained legally in full force from c. 603 (P. 72) to 673, and it is not probable 151. 81.that what was done in the case of Scipio /Fmilianus and Marius was done alsofor Flaccus. Secondly, there is no mention anywhere, when either Flaccusis named, of a double consulship, not even where it was necessary as in Cic.pro Flacc. 32, 77. Thirdly, the Lucius Valerius Flaccus who was active inRome in 669 asprinceps seriatus and consequently of consular rank (Liv. 83), 85. cannot have been the consul of 668, for the latter had already at that time de- 86. parted for Asia and was probably already dead. The consul of 654, censor in 100.657, is the person whom Cicero (ad Att. viii. 3, 6), mentions among the con- 97. sulars present in Rome in 667; he was in 669 beyond doubt the oldest of the 87. 85.olil censors living and thus fitted to be princeps senatus; he was also theinterrex and the magister equitum of 672. On the other hand, the consul of 82. 668, who perished in Nicomedia (P. 307), was the father of the Lucius Flaccus 86 defended by Cicero (pro Flacc. 25, 61, comp. 23, 55. 32, 77).