OCR Output 1098 TARENTUM. TAKEXTUM. the land side by drawing a double line of fortifica­tions across the isthmus, and made himself masterof the sea by drawing a part of the fleet which wasshut up within the inner port (or Mare Piccolo'),across the narrowest part of the isthmus, andlaunching it again in the outer bay. (Pol. rift.34—36; Liv. Mr. 11.) This state of things con­tinued for more than two years, during the whole ofwhich time the Carthaginians continued masters ofthe city, while the Roman garrison still maintainedpossession of the citadel, and the besiegers wereunabla altogether to prevent them from receivingsupplies from without, though on one occasion theRomans, having sent a considerable fleet under D.Quintiua to attempt the relief of the place, this wasmet by the Tarentincs, and after an obstinate con­flict the Koman fleet was defeated and destroyed.(Liv. xxv. 15, xxvi. 39, xxvii. 3.) At length inK. c. 209 Fabius determined if possible to wrestfrom Hannibal the possession of this important post;and laid siege to Tarentum while the Carthaginiangenera! was opposed to Marcellus. He himself en-eamped on the N. of the port, close to the entrance,so that he readily put himself in communicationwith M. Lirins, the commander of the citadel. Butwhile he was preparing his ships and engines for theassault, an accident threw in his way the oppor­tunity of surprising the city, of which he madehimself master with Uttls difficulty. The Cartha­ginian garrison was put to the sword, as well as alarge part of the inhabitants, and the whole citywas given up to plunder. (Id. xxvii. 12, 15, 16;l'lut. Fob. 21—23.) Livy praises the magna­nimity of Fabina in not carrying off the statues andother works of art in which Tarentum abounded(Liv. xxvii. 16; l'lut. Fab. 23); but it is certainthat he transferred from thence to Rome a celebratedstatue of Hercules by Lysippus, which long con­tinued to adorn the Capitol. (Strab. vi. p. 278;Plin. xxxiv. 7. s. 18.) The east quantity of goldand silver which fell into the bands of the victorssufficiently bears out the accounts of the greatwealth of tiie Tarontines. (Liv. /. c.) Tarentum had already suffered severely on itscapture by Hannibal, and there can be no doubt thatit sustained a still severer blow when it was retakenby Fabius. (Strab. vi. p. 278.) It was at firstproposed to degrade it to a condition similar to thatof Capua, but this was opposed by Fabius, and thedecision was postponed till after the war. (Liv.xxvii. 25.) What the final resolution of the senatewas we know not; but Tarentum is alluded to at afiubsequ-'nt period, as still retaining its position ofan allied city, "urbs foedernta." (Liv. xxxv. 16.)It is certain that it still remained the chief place inthis part of Italy, and was the customary residenceof the praetor or other magistrate who was seat tothe S. of Italy. Thus we find in b. c. 185, L.Postnmins sent thither to carry on investigationsinto the conspiracies that had arisen out of theBacchanalian rites, as well as among the slavepopulation. (Liv. xxxix. 29, 41.) But it is never­theless clear that it was (in common with the otherGreek cities of this part of Italy) fallen into a stateof great decay; and hence, in D. c. 123, among thecolonies sent out by C. Grucchns, was one to Taren­tum, which appears to have assumed the title ofColouia Neptunia. (Veil. Pat. i. 15; Plin iii. 11.S. 16; see Mommsen, in BerichU der S<h:hsutchen<U-selhchaft for 1849, pp. 49—51.) According toStiabo this colony became a flourishing one, and the city enjoyed considerable prosperity ia bu day ft*it was greatly fallen from its furaBsr fpVadnff.arionly occupied the sits of the ancient atadfi. *3i ■small part of the adjoining isthmus, (y.rai r. a.278.) It was, however, one of the it* cCm ehefcstill retained the Greek language and taiasaiacommon with Neapolis and Khtgium. (ft. a IS.)The salubrity of its climate, as well as tW fcrtiBfof its territory, and, above all. the impentact d mport, preserved it from the complete daca? lotevfcsfcso many of the cities of Magna Gr=ecm feQRoman government. It is repeatedlyduring the civil wars between Octavun,Aow.iSex. Pompeius as a naval station of importm asit was there that in b. c 36 a freshwas come to between Octavian arid Acta?,we find alluded to by Tacitus as the * Ivmfoedus." (Appian, B. C. il 40, r. 50,—99; Tac Ann. i. 10.) Even under the Empire Tarentum eBnti^nad wtoone of the chief seapwts of Italy, tkeua cmeasure eclipsed by the growing impcay* d |Brundusium. (Tac. Ann. xit. 12. i/ut a, U) JAn additional colony of veterans was tent liender Nero, but with little effect, mast of then sssoon again dispersed. (Tac, An*, xrr. 27.)subsequent mention of TarentQm is found ta saSsBuntil after the fall of the Western En fast, MHthen appears as a considerable town, sad bsimportant part in the Gothic Wars es acrmata'tejstrength as a fortress, and the excellence of o*|(Procop. B. G. iii. 23, 27, 37, iv. 26, 34.) Btaken by Belisarins, but retakeu by Tatiliisi549, and continued in the hands of tht GabiiMRwas finally wrested from them by Kaneb. fnajthat time it continued subject to the Byusaatpire till a. d. 661, when it was taken trrtfaflbard itomoaldus, duke of Beneveotas (P. 1vi. 1); and afterwards fell eocussihtJ ■*hands of the Saracens and the Greek erEpefoa.latter did not finally lose their hold hc£staken by Robert Guiscard in 1063. It kasince formed part of the kingdom of Napa*,modern city of Tarentum has a popalatka d20,000 souls; it is the see of anstill ranks as the most important city in thatItaly. But it is confined to the space ores?the ancient citadel, the extremity of tht pior promontory between the two ports: this aisland, the low Isthmus which connected il amainhind having been cut through by kisfnand 1., for the purpose of strengthen^ '*>cations. Scarcely any remains arc now extant of tttS^hrated and opulent city of Tarentntn.(says Swinburne) was a place mart saasfclflswept oil" the face of the earth/ Smnt sift* Jmains of an amphitheatre (of course itare visible outside the walls of thewhile within it the convent of the Csksfjnas)on the foundations of an ancient temple. £*■extent of the ancient city can be very est*determined. A few slight vestige* rf tht Jwalls are, however, visible near an old ebaeckbears the name of Sta Maria tM jtfartesa, miles from the pates of the modern cityis uo doubt that the walls extended frothe one side to the Mart. Piccolo, oa tito the outer sea. The general form ofthus triangular, having: the citadel iwhich ia now joined to the oppuoiic m