OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 419 censor in 623 enforced the obligation of the burgesses to 131.live in a state of matrimony by describing it as an oppres­sive public burden which patriots ought nevertheless toundertake from a sense of duty.* There were, certainly, exceptions. The society of the Hellenismrural towns, and particularly the larger landholders, had anJ i,s •*"preserved more faithfully the old honourable habits of theLatin nation. In the capital, however, the Catoniau opposi­tion had become a mere form of words; the modern tend­ency bore sovereign sway, and though individuals of firm andrefined organization, such as ScipioiEmilianus, knew the artof combining Roman manners with Attic culture, Hellenismwas among the great multitude synonymous with intellectualand moral corruption. A\'e must never lose sight of the re­action exercised by these social evils on political life, if wewould understand the Roman revolution. It was no matterof indifference, that of the two noblemen, who in 662 served 92.as supreme masters of morals to the community, the onepublicly reproached the other with having shed tears overthe death of a mmxena the pride of his fishpond, and thelatter retaliated on the former that he had buried threewives and had shed tears over none of them. It was nomatter ofinditfereuce, that in 593 an orator could make sport 161.in the open Forum with the following description of asenatorial civil juryman, whom the time fixed for the causefinds amidst the circle of his boon-companions. "Theyplay hazard, delicately perfumed, surrounded by their mis­tresses. As the afternoon advances, they summon the ser­vant and bid him make inquiries at the comitium, what hasoccurred in the Forum, who has spoken in favour of or againstthe new project of law, what tribes have voted for and whatagainst it. At length they go themselves to the judgment-seat, just early enough not to bring the process down ontheir own neck. On the way there is no opportunity in anyretired alley which they do not avail themselves of, tor theyhave gorged themselves with wine. Reluctantly they cometo the tribunal and give audience to the parties. Those whoare concerned bring forward their cause. The jurymanorders the witnesses to come forward; he himself goes aside. * "If we could, citizens "—he said in his speech—'i we should indeed allkeep clear of this burden. But, as nature has so arranged it that we cannoteither live comfortably with wives or live at all without them, it is proper tohave regard rather to the permanent weal than to our own brief comloit."