OCR Output MAGNA GRAECIA. 247 MAGNA GRAECIA. nies in Italy Even of these, it is not clear whether [I'uinat ami its colonies in Campania were regardedas belonging to it: it is certain at least that thename Li more generally used with reference only tothe Greek cities in the south of Italy, includingthose on the shores of the Tarentine gulf and theBruttun peninsula, together with Velia, Posidonia,and Laiis, on the W. coast of Lucania. Sometimes,indeed, tlie name is confined within still narrowerli'uits, as applying only to the cities on the Tarentinegulf, from Locri to 'i'arentum (PJin. iii. 10. s. 15;IXoL iii 1, § 10); but it is probable that this di.v*function was introduced only by the later geogra­phers, anil did not correspond to the original meaningo; liie term. Indeed, the name itself sufficientlyimplies (what U expressly 6tated by many ancientwriters) that it was derived from the number andimportance of the Greek colonies in Southern Italy,and must, therefore, naturally have been extendedto them all. (Strab. vi. p. 253; Scymn. Ch. 303;r :. ii. 39, iii. 118; At hen. xii. p. 523; Justin,xx. 2; Cic. Tutc iv. 1, v. 4, dt Or. iii. 34.) Itmust be added that the name was never understood(except j#rhaps by late geographers) as a territorialone. including the whole of Southern Italy, but ap­plied merely to the Greek cities on the coasts, so asto correspond with the expression "Graecorum omnisora," employed by Livy (xxii. 61). The same au­thor in one passage (xxxi. 7) uses the phrase** Graei'ia Major." which is found also in Festus(p. 134, ed. Mtill.), and employed by Justin andOvid (Justin, Lc; Ov. t'a/t. iv. 64); but thertonmon form of expression was certainly GraeciaMa*na (Cic. U. ce.) There could obviously be no ethnic appellationwhich corresponded to such a term; but it is im-pxtjiit to observe tliat the name of 'iTaAaJrai isuivenally Usui by the best writers to designute theOmit r» Jtahj. or as equivalent to the phrase oiKara tt)k TtoAi'oi' 'EWijvts, and is never con­founded with that of 'ItoAui, or the Italians ingeneral. (Thuc. vi. 44 ; Herod, iv. 15, Ac.) Poly-bins, however, as well as later writers, sometimeslow* H^ht of this iistinction. (Pol. vi. 52.) Tlie geographical description of the country knownm Mj?na Graecia is given under the article Italia,and in more detail in those of Bhuttii, Ll'CAM.v,and Cai.abkia; hut as the history of these Greekrulooiea is to a great extent separate from that oftlie mother country, while it is equally distinct fromtlut of the Italian nations which came early in con-tart with Ibime, it will be convenient here to givea brief summary of the history of Magna Graecia,b'tn^ing together under one head the leading factswhich are given in the articles of the severalexir*. The general testimony of antiquity points toCumaeas the most ancient of all the Greek settlements inItaly; and though we may reasonably refuse toadnut tlie precise date assigned for its foundation(a.c 1050), there seems no sufficient reason todoubt the fart that it really preceded all other Greekcclnies in Italy or Sicily. [Cumae.] But, fromits remote poxition. it appears to have been in greatmeasure isolated from the later Greek settlements.and, togetlier with its own colonies and dependencies,lKraeanhia and Neapolia, formed a little group of(ireek cities, that had but little connection withthose farther south, which here form the immediatesubject of consideration.With the single exception of Cumae, it seems certain that none of the Greek colonies in Italy weremore ancient than those in Sicily; while there seemsgood reason to suppose that the greater part of themwere founded within the half century which followedthe first commencement of Greek colonisation in thatquarter, (b. c. 735—685.) The causes whichjust at that period gave so sudden an impulse toemigration in this direction, are unknown to us;but, though the precise dates of the foundation ofthese colonies are often uncertain, and we have norecord of their establishment equal either in com­pleteness or authority to that preserved by Thucy-dulcs concerning the Greek cities in Sicily, we maystill trace with tolerable certainty the course andprogress of the Greek colonisation of Italy. The Achaeans led the way; and it is remarkablethat a people who never played more than a subor­dinate (art in the affairs of Greece itself should havebeen the founders of the two most powerful cities ofMagna Graecia. Of these, Sybakis was the earliestof the Achaean colonies, and the most ancient of theGreek settlements in Italy of which the date isknown with any approach to certainty. Its foun­dation is ascribed to the year 720 b. c. (Scymn.Ch. 360; Clinton, F. II. vol. i. p. 174); and'thatof Ckotoka, according to the best authorities, maybe placed about ten years later, B.C. 710. [Cuo-tona.] Within a very few years of the same period,took place the settlement of Tahkntum, a fMiartancolony founded after tlie close of the First MesscnianWar, about 708 B. c. A spirit of rivalry betweenthis city and the Achaean colonies seems to haveearly sprung up; and it was with a view of checkingthe encroachments of the Tarcntines that theAchaeans, at the invitation of the Sybarites, foundedthe colony of Metapontum, on the immediatefrontier of the Tarentine territory. The date of thisis very uncertain (though it may probably be placedbetween 700 and 680 B. c.); but it is clear thatMetapontum mse rapidly to prosperity, and becamethe third in importance among the Achaean colonies.While the latter were thus extending themselvesalong the shores of the Tarentine gulf, we find sub­sisting in tho midst of them the Ionian colony ofSims, the history of which is extremely obscure,but which for a brief period rivalled even the neigh­bouring Sybaris ill opulence and luxury. [Sikis], Further towards the S., the Locrinns from Greecefounded near the Cape Zephyrium the city whichwas thence known by the name of Loctti Epize-PHTIUI. This settlement is described by Strabo asnearly contemporary with that of Crotona (B.C. 710),though some authorities would bring it down to aperiod thirty or forty years later, [Lockl] The nextimportant colony was that of I'hkgii'm, on theSicilian straits, which was, according to tho generalstatement, a C*~ Acidic colony, founded subsequentlyto Zancle in Sicily, but which, from the traditionsconnected with its foundation, would seem to havebeen more ancient even than Sybaris. [ItiiEoiVM."|The Greek cities on the Tyrrhenian sea along theshores of Brultium and Lucauia were, with thesingle exception of Vkua, which was not foundedtill about 540 B. c, all of them colonies from theearlier settlements already noticed and not sent outdirectly from the mother country. Thus Posi-DONIA, LaUs and Scidri's, on the Tyrrhenian sea,were all colonies of Sybaris, which in the days of itsgreatness undoubtedly extended its dominion from seato sea. In like manner, Crotona had founded Tf.iiinaon the W. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, as well R 4