OCR Output a THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.V. soon as the suspension of arms expired, having under hiscommand twelve hundred neavy-armed Athenians, threehundred horsemen, and larger numbers of their alliedforces. His whole armament consisted of thirty sail.Touching first at Scione, yet blocked up, he drew fromthence the heavy-armed, stationed there as guards; and,standing away, entered the haven of the Colophonians,lying at no great distance from Torone. Being hereinformed, by the deserters, that Brasidas was not inTorone, nor the inhabitants able to make head againsthim, he marched his forces by land towards that city,and sent ten of his ships about, to stand into the harbour.His first approach was to the new rampart, which Bra­sidas had thrown up quite round the city, in order toinclose the suburbs within its cincture, and thus, by thedemolition of the old wall, had rendered it one intire ci­ty. When the Athenians came to the assault, Pasiteli- rhe Knights of Aristophanes. Arid, to set it in the most ludicrous view, the poet openshis play with Nieias and Demosthenes, whom he paints in a very injurious manner;and, no doubt, it must have been very grating to them, to fee themselves representedin fo low buffoonery upon the stage at Athens. *' Demosthenes begins with a shower"of curses on that execrable Paphlagonian, Cleon; Nicias seconds him j and, then,<* both of them howl together in a most lamentable duetto. They next lay their"heads together about some means of redress. Demosthenes proposeth getting out"of their master Cleon's reach. Lei us go then, fays Nicias. Ay; let us go, cries*' Demosthenes. Say mere, fays Nicias, lit us go ever to the enemy. Ay, ever to tie"enemy, adds the other. But first, ftys Nicias, let us go and f rostrate ourselves before** the Images of the Gods. What images? fays Demajthenes; dost thou think then there"are any Cods? I do. Upon ivhat grounds? Because I am undeservedly tbetbjetl of*' their hatred. Such are the daring misrepresentations Aristophanes makes of*' characters that by no means deserved it t Demosthenes afterwards describes the*' arrogance of Cleon thus; He hath one foot fixed in Py/ut, and the other in the astern-** hly of the feofle. When he moves, he struts and stretches at such a rate, that bis turn*"is in Thrace, hit bands in Ætolia, and bis attention amongst the tribes at home, •"Nicias then proposeth poisoning themselves by drinking bull's blood, like ThemiC** tocles;—Or rather, fays Demosthenes, a dose of good-wine. This is agreed upon,* in order to cheer up their spirits, and enable them to confront Cleon, and play off"against him the seller of black-puddings. Nicias accordingly goes and steals the "wine." Yet, in spite of the most outrageous ridicule, and the opposition of alL wife and honest men at Athens, we fee Cleon now at the head of an army, to stop therapid conquests of Brasidas, das,