OCR Output CHAP. LII. 509 the Greeks, the apostate was slain before her walls, andhis African friends were reduced to the necessity offeeding on the flesh of their own horses. In their turnthey were relieved by a powerful reinforcement of theirbrethren of Andalusia: the largest and western part ofthe island was gradually reduced, and the commodiousharbour of Palermo was chosen for the seat of the navaland military power of the Saracens. Syracuse preservedabout fifty years the faith which she had sworn to Christand to Caesar. In the last and fatal siege, her citizensdisplayed some remnant of the spirit which had former­ly resisted the power of Athens and Carthage. Theystood above twenty days against the battering-rams andcatapult tf, the mines and tortoises of the besiegers; andthe place might have'been relieved, if the mariners of theimperial fleet had not been detained at Constantinoplein building a church to the Virgin Mary. The dea­con Theodosius, with the bishop and clergy, was drag­ged in chains from the altar to Palermo, cast into a sub­terraneous dungeon, and exposed to the hourly peril ofdeath or apostacy. His pathetic, and not inelegantcomplaint, may be read as the epitaph of his country.'1From the Roman conquest to this final calamity, Syra­cuse, now dwindled to the primitive isle of Ortygea,had insensibly declined. Yet the relics were still pre­cious; the plate of the cathedral weighed five thousandpounds of silver; the entire spoil was computed at onemillion of pieces of gold (about four hundred thousandpounds sterling), and the captives must outnumber theseventeen thousand Christians who were transportedfrom the sack of Tauromenium into African servitude.In Sicily the religion and language of the Greeks wereeradicated; and such was the docility of the rising ge­neration, that fifteen thousand boys were circumcised f The narrative or lamentation of Theodosius is transcribed and illustrated byPagi. (Critica, torn. 3. p. 719, &c.) Conatantine Porphyrogenitus (in Vit. Basil,c. 69, 70. p. 190—192.) mentions the loss of Syracuse and the triumph of thedemons.