OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 383 also, a still anclenter writer, and a poet, makes mention ofour nation, and informs us that it came to the assistance ofking Xerxes in his expedition against Greece. For, in hisenumeration of all those nations, he last of all, inserts oursamong the rest, when he says, — " At the last there passedover a people wonderful to be beheld; for they spake thePhoenician tongue with their mouths; they dwelt in theSolymean mountains near a broad lake : their heads weresooty; they had round rasures on them; their heads andfaces were like nasty horse heads also, that had been hardenedin the smoke." I think, therefore, that it is evident to every body, thatCherilus means us, because the Solymean mountains are inour country, wherein we inhabit, as is also the lako calledAsphaltitis; for this is a broader and larger lake than anyother that is in Syria: and thus does Cherilus make mentionof us. But now, that not only the lowest sort of the Gre­cians, but those that are had in the greatest admiration fortheir philosophic improvements among them, did not onlyknow the Jews, but when they lighted upon any of them ad­mired them also, it is easy for any one to know. ForClearchus, who was the scholar of Aristotle, and inferior tono one of the Peripateties whomsoever, in his first book con­cerning sleep says, —" That Aristotle his master relatedwhat follows of a Jew," and sets down Aristotle's own dis­ to bo desired by Xerxes for his army as the Jews, to whom he was alwaysvery favorable. As for the rest of Cherilus's description, that their headswere sooty ; thai they had round rasures oa their heads; that their heads andfaces ucre like nasty horse heads, which had beea hardened in the smoke; theseawkward characters probably fitted the Solymi of Pisidia no better thanthey did the Jews in Judea. And, indeed, this reproachful languago heregiven theso people, is to me a strong indication that they were the poordespicable Jews, and not the Pisidian Solymi celebrated in Homer, whomCherilus here describes; nor are wo to expect that either Cherilus or Ilcca-teus, or any other Pagan writers cited by Josephus and Eusebius, made nomistakes in the Jewish history. If, by comparing their testimonies with themore authentic record of that nation, wo find them, for the main, to confirmthe same ns we always do, we ought to be satisfied, and not expect thatthey ever had an exact knowledge of all the circumstances of the Jewishaffairs, which, indeed, it was almost always impossible for them to havp.See sect. 23.