OCR Output AN. 217 1097.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. wicked. So he sent to Nabal's wife, and in­vited her to come to him, to live with him,and to be his wife. Whereupon she repliedto those that came, that she was not worthyto touch his feet. However she came withall her servants, and became his wife; havingreceived that honour on account of her wiseand righteous course of life, and also partlyon account of her beauty. Now David hada wife before, whom he married from the cityAbesar. For as to Michal, the daughter ofking Saul, who had been David's wife, herfather had given her in marriage to Phalti,the son of Laish, who was of the city Gallim.*After this came certain of the Ziphites, andtold Saul, that David was come again intotheir country, and that if he would affordthem his assistance, they could catch him.So he came to them with three thousandarmed men, and upon the approach of nighthe pitched his camp at a certain place calledHachilah. But when David heard that Saulwas coming against him, he sent spies, andbade them let him know to what part of thecountry Saul was already come. And whenthey told him that he was at Hachilah, heconcealed his going away from his own com­panions, and came to Saul's camp, havingtaken with him Abishai, his sister Zeruiah'sson, and Ahimelech the Hittite. Now Saulwas asleep, and the armed men, with Abner,their commander, lay round about him in acircle. Hereupon David entered into theking's tent, but he did neither kill Saul,though he knew where he lay, by the spearthat was stuck down by him,t nor did he give leave to Abishai, who would have killed him,and was strongly inclined so to do. For hesaid it was a horrid crime to kill one that wasordained king by God, although he were awicked man; for that he who gave him thedominion, would in time inflict punishmentupon him: so he restrained his eagerness.But that it might appear to have been in his f)ower to have killed him when he refrainedrom it, he took his spear, and the cruse ofwater which stood by Saul, without beingperceived by any in the camp, who were allasleep, and went securely away; having per­formed every thing among the king's attend­ants that the opportunity afforded, and hisboldness encouraged him to do. So when hehad passed over the brook, and ascended tothe top of a hill, whence he might be suffi­ciently heard, he cried aloud to Saul's sol­diers, and to Abner their commander, andawakened them out of their sleep; and calledboth to him and to the people. Hereuponthe commander asked who it was that calledhim? to whom David replied, " It is I, the sonof Jesse, whom thou makest a vagabond. Butwhat is the matter? dost thou that art a manof so great dignity, and of the first rank inthe king's court, take so little care of thymaster's person? and is sleep of more conse­quence to thee than his preservation? thisnegligence deserves death; and punishmentought to be inflicted on thee, who didst notperceive when a little while ago some of usentered into thy camp; nay, as far as to theking himself. If thou look for the king'sspear, and his cruse of water; thou wilt learn * 1 Sam. xxv. 44. t Carrying a long pike before a company of Arabs is atoken that an Arab Sheekh, or prince, is there: the fixingof it likewise near a person of authority points out his dig­nity. Thus Josephiis, giving an account of David's en­tering the camp of Saul, when that prince and his peoplewere fast asleep, informs us, that notwithstanding the op­portunity, he did no hurt to Saul, though he well knewwhere he slept, by the spear, which was fixed near him,and that he suffered not Abishai, to slay him then, thoughhe would fain have done it. English readers generallysuppose that every man had his spear stuck into theground at his head: but Josephus supposes that circum­stance distinguished the royal sleeping-place from that ofevery body else, which it would not have done, if it hadnot been something peculiar to Saul, distinguishing himfrom his officers and people. It was, it should seem then,a customary distinction in the timo of Josephus, and hethought it also an usage is -m-ient as the time of Saul.Perhaps too, this describing Saul, as known by the spear, I may intimate, that he slept with his face covered, beinglaid on the ground in the open air. Thus de la Roquedescribes the Bedouin Arabs of the Holy Land, though ingeneral they live under tents, yet, sometimes, he says,they sleep in their clothes, in summer time, on the ground,only covering their body and face with their aba, or outergarment. Voy. dans la Pal. c. 12. p. 176. Josephus,then in all probability, supposes this expedition was un­dertaken in the time of summer; and that Saul's face wasmuffled up, so as rather to be known by the spear, thanby his countenance, in a night sufficiently light to havedistinguished him, had he not been so covered. It seemsindeed to be the common practice of the Eastern peopleto sleep with their faces covered, according to Niebuhr;and he supposes that Europeans would find the benefit ofit, if they would adopt the same usage, the dews and somewinds being found to be very hurtful. Descript. deVArahie, p. 9. Harrier's Observations on Scripture, vol. i.p. 96. Clarke's Edition. B.