OCR Output SARDINIA. 909' SARDINIA. i tin aha!. (Id. xix. t.) The chronology ofa*:* does not claim much confidence; bat it seems"Jallc that in this butane* it ia not far from cor-and that we may place the Carthaginian con-nttateatSOO—480B.C. It can hardly bare taken>Kt much earlier, aa the Ionian Greeks still looked[■n the island as open to colonisation in the reignI trios Hyitaspis. •if the details and circumstances of the Cart na­tion aaquest we have no account; but we arefcJ to general terms that they made themselvesof the whole island, with the exception of'rcfjnsd mountain districts which were held byr liioues and Corsi. (Pans, x. 17. § 9; PoL1ft) They founded many towns, and from theirfenue cmlisstion struck such deep root into theittrj, that eren in the time of Cicero the man-n, character, and institutions of the Sardinians"still essentially Punic. It even appears that adisable part of the population was of Panicpa, though this was doubtless confined to the*m sod the more settled districts in their imme-iit wagbbourbood. (Cic pro Scaur. §§ 15, 42, ) Hot notwithstanding these clear evidences of'riteot of the Carthaginian influence, we havefly any account of the long period of above twotana and a half, daring which they continued*cn of all the more important portions of theL*i. An isolated notice occurs m 11. c. 379 of aat revolt in Sardinia, the inhabitants of which took'image of a pestilence that had afflicted the Car-ciaiana, and made a vigorous effort to shake off * yak*, hot without success. (Diod. xv. 24.)'tarn also that already at this period Sardinia > shit to export large quantities of corn, withat it supplied the fleets and armies of Carthage.'Ju xiv. 63, 77.) The story current among the»rj, of the Carthaginians having systematicallyPirated agriculture in the island (Pseud. Arist.Ifraw, 104), ia therefore, in all probability, with- tvodation. During the First Punk War (b. c. I L. Oroeliaa Scipio, after the conquest ofns in Corsica, directed his course to Sardinia,he defeated the Carthaginian fleet near Olbia, 'M not venture to attack that city. (Zonar. II) Having, however, received reinforcements • Kuan*, be landed in the island, totally defeated'inhaginian general Hanno, and took the city■Ma, an wWl as several minor towns. The next'C Sulptooa followed up this advantage, andfed tin) greater part of the island, apparently UsJe oppoaitiia. (Zonar viii. 11, 12; Pol. i.Onav ir. 7, 8; Flor. ii. 2. § 16; Val. Max. r. 'rral footing was, however, gained by the Ro- ■ a Sardinia during the First Punic War; andr^ace which put a close to that contest left the fwhjeet to Carthage as before. But a fewi srWwards the Carthairinian mercenaries inu> Mhnred the example of their brethren ina, and raised the standard of revolt; they were«i overpowered by the natives, and driven out of ■ -and, but their cause was espoused by toe Ro-t, »bo uiidertook to restore them, and threatenedCarthaginians with war if they attempted the-if ion of their own dominion in Sardinia. Ther wen exhausted with the long and fierce con-nth their mercenary troops in Africa, and were- ecodition to resist. They consequently sub-■i to the demands of the Romans, and agreednatty to abandon all claims to Sardinia, u. c. 238. (Pol. i. 79, 88; Appian, Pun. 5; Liv. xxi.1.) But the Carthaginians could cede no morethan they possessed, and the whole island was atthis time in the hands of the natives. Its subjuga­tion was not effected by the Romans till alter severalcampaigns; and though in B.C. 235 T. ManliuaTorquatus triumphed over the Sardinians, and issaid to hare reduced the whole island to subjection(Eutrop. iii. 3; Oros. ir. 12; Veil. Pat. ii. 38;Fast. CapU.), it is clear that this statement mustbe understood with considerable limitation, as theconsuls of the two succeeding years, Sp. Carviliusand Pomponins Matho, were still able to earn thedistinction of a triumph "de Sardis." (Fail. CapU.")The conquest of the island was now consideredcomplete; and it was reduced to the condition of aprovince, to which a praetor was annually sent.Corsica was soon after annexed to bis jurisdiction.But it is certain that the wilder mountain tribes ofthe interior, though they may have tendered anominal submission, were not really subdued, andcontinued long after to molest the settled parts ofthe island by their depredations, as well as to findemployment for the arms of the praetor by occa­sional outbreaks of a more serious description. During the Second Panic War, Sardinia was natu­rally watched with considerable jealousy, lest theCarthaginians should attempt to regain possessionof what they had so long held. Bat the war whichbroke out there ia B. c. 215, under a native chiefnamed Hampsicora, is attributed by the Romanwriters themselves in great measure to the severityof taxation and the exactions of their governors.T. Manliua Torquatus, the same who as consulhad already triumphed over the Sardinians, was ap­pointed to quell this insurrection. He defeated theSardinians under Hiostua, the sou of Hampsicora,in the neighbourhood of Cornus; but the arrival ofa Carthaginian force under Hasdrubal gave freshspirit to the insurgents, and the combined armiesadvanced to the very gates of Caralis. Here, how­ever, they were met by Torquatus in a pitchedbattle and totally defeated. Hasdrubal was takenprisoner, Hiostus slain in the battle, and Hampsi­cora in despair put an end to his own life. Theremains of the defeated army took refuge in thefortress of Comus; but this was soon reduced byManliua, and the other towns of Sardinia one afterthe other made their submission. (Liv. xxiiL 32,40, 41.) From this time we hear no more of any general wanin Sardinia; and the large supplies of corn which theisland began to furnish to Rome and to the armies inItaly (Liv. xxr. 22. xxx. 24) sufficiently prove that aconsiderable part of it at least was in the peaceablepossession of the Ruman authorities. The mountaintribes were, however, still unsubdued ; and in b. c.181 the Iliensea and Balari broke out into a freshinsurrection, which assumed so formidable a cha­racter that the consul Tib. Sempronius Gracchuswas expressly sent to Sardinia to carry on the war.He defeated the insurgents with heavy loss, and fol­lowed up his victory with such vigour that he putto the sword or took prisoners not less than 80,( 00persons. (Liv. xl. 19, 34, xli. 6, 12, 17, 28.) Thenumber of captives brought to Rome on this occasionwas so great that it is said to have given rise to theproverb of "Sardi venales" for anything that wascheap and worthless. (Vict. fir. 10. 65.) Anotherserious outbreak occurred in Sardinia aa late as b. c.114, to repress which M. Caeciliua Metellua was »