OCR Output MASDORANUS. 2 S3 MASSAVA. MASDORA'NUS (MaaSiipains), a chain ofmountains which divided Parthia from CannaniaIfesrrta, extending in a S. direction. They mustht considered as spurs of the Sariphi mountains(Ilazarai), which lie to the N. of Parthia (Ptol.Ti.5.§l). [V.] MASKS (MdVnf, v Micrnros, Steph. B.: EthMcwrfrnoj), an ancient city in the district Hermionis,in the Argolic peninsula, mentioned by Homeralong with Aegica. In the time of Pausanias itwm used as a harbour by Hermione. (Horn. //. ii.562; Strab. viii. p. 376; Paus. ii. 36. § 2; Steph. B.» r.) It was probably situated on the western coastof Hermionis, at the head of the deep bay ofKiladhia,which is protected by a small island in front. Thejouesskin of this harbonr on the Argolic gulf mustlave been of great advantage to the inhabitants ofHermione, since they were thus saved the navigationmood the peninsula of Kranidhi. The French Com­mission, however, place Mascs more to the south, at[art Kktli, which we suppose to have been the sileif Hslice. [Halice.] (Leake, Morea, vol. ii.p.463, Peltiponnesiaca, p. 287; Boblaye, Recherches,•ft. p. 61; Curtins, Petoponnesos, vol. ii. p. 462.) MASICES. [Maoretania.] MA'SIUS (to Mimor floor, Strab. xi. pp. 506,527; PtoL v. 18. § 2), a chain of mountainswhich form the northern boundary of Mesopotamia,«*1 extend in a direction nearly east and west.They may be considered as connecting the greatwestern mountain known by the name of Amanus,between Cilicia and Assyria, and the Niphates, onthe eastern or Armenian side. The modern nameis Karja Baghlar. Strabo states, that M. Masius» in Armenia, because he extends Armenia some-whit more to the VV. and S. than other geographers.A southern spur of the Masian chain is the mountaindistrict round Singara (now Sir/jar). [V.] MA'SPII (Mdrnrioi, Herod, i. 125), one of thethree tribes mentioned by Herodotus, as forming thefrst snd most honourable class among the ancientPt-sisns. [V.] MASSA (MoVrtro, Ptol. iv. 6. § 6; Masatat,Pchb. ap. PUn. v. 1), a river of Libya, which joinedthe sea not far to the N. of the Dares (Senegal), andts the S. of Soloeis (Cape Blanco) in K. long. 10°W, N. lat 16° 30'. [E.B.J.] MASSA, sumamed Massa Vetkrnensis, a townof Etruria, situated about 12 miles from the sea,«t hill overlooking the wide plain of the Maremma:km* it is now called Afassa Marittima. In theFiMlr ages it was a considerable city and the see ofi bisfcop; but it is not mentioned by any ancienta^tW earlier than Ammiunus Marcellinus (xiv. 11.§ £), who tells us that it was the birthplace oftl* emperor Constantius Callus. From the epithetWerwnsis, it would seem probable that there was« Etruscan city of the name of Veternum in itsbafhbMirbood; and, according to Mr. Dennis,iIitv ire signs of an Ktrusoau population on a hill°W the Poggio di i'tlrela, a little to the SE.■f i« modern town. (Dennis, Etruria, vol. ii. p.«»-) [E. H. B.] MASSABATICA. [Messabatak.] MASSAEI (Moffffoibi), a people placed byft*ray (vi 14. §§ 9, 11) in the extreme N. ofkytbia. Dear the mountains of the Alani, or the N.P« of the Ural chain. [ E. B. J. ] MASSAESYL1. [Xumidia.] MASSAGA (to Mdtraaya, Arrian, A nab, iv. 25,3»), a strongly fortified town in the NE. part of India, between the Cophes and the Indus. It isstated by Arrian (/. c.) to have made a desperatedefence, and to have withstood Alexander for fourdays of continued assault. It had been the re­sidence of the Indian king Assacanns, who was re­cently dead when Alexander arrived there. (Curt,viii. 10). This name is written differently in diffe­rent authors. Thus, Strabo writes it Maoiya (xv.p. 698); Steph. Byz. and Diodorus, Kaaaixa (xvii.Prooem.); and Curtins, Mazaga (/. c). It is doubt-'less the same as the Sanscrit, Macaka, near theGuraeus (or Court). Curtins himself mentionsthat a rapid river or torrent defended it on itseastern side. (Lassen's Map of India.) [V.] MASSA'GETAE (Maffffo/yrreu), a numerous andpowerful tribe who dwelt in Asia on the plains tothe E. of the Caspian and to the S. of the Iscdones,on the E. bank of the Araxes. Cyrus, according tostory, lost his life in a bloody fight against themand their queen Tomyris. (Herod, i. 205—214;Justin, i. 8.) They were so analogous to theScythians that they were reckoned as members ofthe same race by many of the contemporaries ofHerodotus, who has given a detailed account of theirhabits and manner of life. From the exactness ofthe geographical data furnished by that historian,the situation of this people can be made out withconsiderable precision. The Araxes is the Jaxartes,and the immense plain to the E. of the Caspian isthat " steppe" land which now includes Sungariaand Mongolia, touching on the frontier of Eygur,and extending to the chain of the Altai. The goldand bronze in which their country abounded werefound in the Altai range. Strabo (xi. pp. 512—514) confirms the statements of the Father ofHistory as to the inhuman practices and repulsivehabits of these earliest specimens of the Mongolianrace. It may be observed that while Niebuhr(Klein Schrift. p. 362), Bikkh (Corp. luscr. Grate.pi. xi. p. 81)andSchaf'arik(Sfap. All. vol.i. p. 279)agree in assigning them to the Mongol stock, VonHumboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. i. p. 400) considersthem to have belonged to the Indo-Europeanfamily. Alexander came into collision with these wander­ing hordes, during the campaign of Sogdiaim, n. c.328. (Arrian, Anab. iv. 16,17.) The Massagetaeoccur in Pomponius Mela (i. 2. § 5), Pliny (vi. 19),and Ptolemy (vi. 10. §2, 13. § 3): afterwardsthey appear as Alani. [Alani.] [E. B. J ] MASSA'LIA (Moo-aoAio), a river of Crcte.whichPtolemy (iii. 17. § 3) places to the W. of Psychium(Kastri),novi'the Megalo-potavio. (Hock, Kreta, vol.i. p. 393.) [E. Ii. J.] MASSA'LIA. [Massiua.] MASSALIO'TICUM OSTIUM [Fossa Ma­riana.] MASSANI (Mao-<riW, Diod. xv. 102), a peopleof India, who are said by Diodorus to have livednear the mouths of the Indus, in the district calledPattalene. [V.] MASSAVA, in Gallia, is placed by the Tablebetween Brivodurum (Briare) and Ebinium, whkhis Nevirnum (Nevert) on the J*oire. The distanceis marked the same from Massava to Brivodurumand to Ncvimum, being xvi. in each case. Massavais Mesve or Meves, a place where the small riverMnsau flows into the Loire; but the numbers iu theTable do not agree with the real distance. !isD'Anville says, and he would correct them in bisUsual way. [G. I..] VOL It