OCR Output an. 1897.] 35 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. received him kindly, because Abraham hadformerly lived with him, and had been hisfriend; but when he saw that God was withIsaac, and took such great care with him, hebecame envious, and drove him away. Per­ceiving this change in Abimelech's temper,Isaac retired to a place called the Valley,not far from Gerar: and as he was digging awell, the shepherds fell upon him, and beganto fight, in order to hinder the work; andbecause he did not desire to contend, theshepherds seemed to get the better of him.So he still retired, and dug another well: andwhen certain other shepherds, in the serviceof Abimelech began to offer him violence, heleft that also, and still retired: thus pur­chasing security to himself by a rational andprudent conduct. At length the king gavehim permission to dig a well, which he namedRehoboth; denoting a large space. But ofthe former wells, one was called Escon,which denotes strife; the other Sitenna, whichname signifies enmity. Isaac's affairs were now in a flourishingcondition; and his power increased from hisgreat. riches. But Abimelech thinking Isaacthrove in opposition to him, while their livingtogether made them suspicious of each other:and Isaac's retiring shewed a secret enmityalso, the king was afraid that his formerfriendship would not secure him, if Isaacshould endeavour to revenge the injuries hehad formerly received: he therefore renewedhis friendship with him, in the presence ofPhiloc,* one of his generals; and when hehad obtained every thing he desired, by rea­son of Isaac's good nature, who preferred the * While Josephus' copies, both Greek and Latin, men­tion this Philoc as one of Abimelech's generals, that ac­companied him when he renewed the old league withIsaac, which had been made long before with Abraham,our new edition calls him Phicol by the same name withthe general at the league made with Abraham, (which oldleague is not so distinctly mentioned by Josephus,) butthis conjectural reading is too uncertain to be dependedon. t Gen. xxyi. 31. I An. 1817. II This supper of Savory meat, as we call it, Gen. xxvii.4, to be caught by hunting, was evidently intended for afestival on a sacrifice; and upon the prayers that werefrequent at sacrifices Isaac expected, as was then usual insuch eminent cases, that a divine impulse would comeupon him, in order to the solemn blessing of his son therepresent, and his foretelling his future behaviour and for­tune. Whence it must be, that when Isaac had blessed voL. I.—No. 3. earlier friendship Abimelech had shewed tohimself, and his father to alter his wrathagainst him, he returned home. f Now when Esau, one of the sons of Isaac,whom the father principally loved was cometo the age of forty years he married Adah,Jthe daughter of Helon; and Aholibamah, thedaughter of Esebeon, which Helon and Ese-beon were great lords among the Canaanites;thereby taking upon himself the authority,and pretending to have dominion over hisown marriages, without so much as askingthe advice of his father. For had Isaac beenthe arbitrator, he would not have given himleave to marry thus, for he was not pleasedwith contracting any alliance with the peopleof that country; but not wishing to act harshlyby his son, in commanding him to put awaythese wives, he resolved to be silent. But when he was old, and could not seeat all, he called Esau to him, and told him,that besides his blindness, and the disorderin his eyes, his very old age hindered himfrom his worship of God, by sacrifice: hebade him, therefore, to go out a hunting, andwhen he had caught as much venison as hecould, to prepare him a supper; || that afterthis he might make supplication to God to beto him a supporter, and an assister, duringthe old time of his life: saying, that it wasuncertain when he should die, and that hewas desirous, by his prayers for him, toprocure, before-hand, God to be merciful tohim. Accordingly Esau went out a hunting. ButRebeka§ thinking it proper to have the sup­plication made for obtaining the favour of Jacob, and was afterwards made sensible of his mistake,he did not attempt to alter it; because he knew that thisblessing came not from himself, but from God ; and thatan alteration was out of his power. A second afflatus thencame upon him, and enabled him to foretel Esau's futurebehaviour and fortune also. § Whether Jacob or his mother Rebeka were mostblameable in this imposition upon Isaac in his old age, 1cannot determine. However, the blessings being de­livered as a prediction of future events, by a divine im­pulse, and according to what Rebeka knew to be thepurpose of God, when he answered her inquiry, beforethe children were born, Gen. xxv. 23, that one peopleshould be stronger than the other; and that the elder,Esau, should serve the younger, Jacob. Whether Isaacknew, or remembered this oracle, delivered in our copies,only to Rebeka; or whether if he knew or rememberedit, he did not endeavour to alter the divine determination,out of his fondness for his elder son, Esau, to the damage