OCR Output an. 1532.] 71 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the assistance of the God of his fathers hehad escaped from the Egyptians. When they were near the borders, Aaron,his brother, by the command of God, methim: to whom he declared what had befallenhim at the mountain, and the commands thatGod had given him: but as they were goingforward, the chief men among the Hebrewshaving learned that they were coming, metthem; to whom Moses declared the signs hehad seen, and when they could not believethem, he made them see them; so they tookcourage at these surprising and unexpectedsights, and conceived hopes of their entiredeliverance, as believing now that God tookcare of their preservation. Since then Moses found that the Hebrewswould be obedient to whatever he shoulddirect, as they promised, and that they werein love with liberty; he came to the king,who had indeed but lately* received thegovernment, and told him how much he haddone for the good of the Egyptians, whenthey were despised by the Ethiopians, andtheir country laid waste by them, and how hehad been the commander of their forces, andhad laboured for them, as if they had beenhis own people; and he informed him in whatdanger he had been during that expedition,without having any proper returns made him,as he had deserved. He also stated, dis­tinctly, what things happened to him at MountSinai, and what God said to him, and thesigns that were done by God in order to as­sure him of the authority of those commandswhich he had given him; he also exhortedhim not to disbelieve what he told him, nor tooppose the will of God. But when the king derided Moses, he madehim see the signs that were done at MountSinai; yet was the king very angry, andcalled him a wicked man, who had formerlyrun away from his Egyptian slavery, and nowcome back with deceitful tricks, and won­ders, and magical arts, to astonish him. Andwhen he had said this, he commanded thepriests to let him see the same wonderfulsights; as knowing that the Egyptians wereskilful in this kind of learning, and that he was not the only person who knew them, andpretended them to be divine: he also toldhim, that when he brought such wonderfulsights before him, he would only be believedby the unlearned. Now when the prieststhrew down their rods, they became serpents;but Moses was not daunted at it, and said,"O king, I do not myself despise the wisdomof the Egyptians; but I say, that what I do is somuch superior to what these perform by magicarts and tricks, as divine power exceeds thepower of man; but I will demonstrate thatwhat I do is not done by craft, or so counter­feiting what is not really true, but that theyappear by the providence and power of God."When he had said this, he cast his rod downupon the ground, and commanded it to turnitself into a serpent. It obeyed him, and wentall round and devoured the rods of the Egyp­tians,f which seemed to be dragons, until ithad consumed them all. It then returned toits own form, and Moses took it into his handagain. However, the king was no more movedwhen this was done than before; but beingvery angry, he said, that he should gain no­thing by this cunning and shrewdness againstthe Egyptians; at the same time commandingthe chief task-master over the Hebrews togive them no relaxation from their labours,but to compel them to submit to greateroppressions than before; and though he al­lowed them chaff before for making theirbricks, he would allow it no longer, but hemade them to work hard at brick-making inthe day time, and to gather chaff in the night.Now when their labour was thus doubled,they laid the blame upon Moses, becausetheir labour and their misery were on hisaccount become more severe. But Mosesdid not let his courage sink for the king'sthreatenings; nor did he abate of his zeal onaccount of the Hebrews' complaints, but hesupported himself, and set his soul resolutelyagainst them both, and used his utmost dili­gence to procure liberty to his countrymen:so he went to the king and persuaded him tolet the Hebrews go to Mount Sinai, and thereto sacrifice to God, because God had en-taken in this entire Egyptian chronology, and sp in theking of Egypt, with whom Moses had to do. * Josephus seems here mistaken in his Egyptian chro­nology, when he says that this Pharaoh, who was thenking, had but lately began his reign; nor is it any wonder,since I have already observed, how greatly he was mis- VOL. I.—No. 6. t Exod. vii. 12.