OCR Output 24S MAGNA GRAECIA. MAGNA GRAECIA. as Caulosta on tho E. coast, but considerably moreto the S. Locri, also, liad established two colonieson the \V. coast, Hmtonm m and Mkdma; neitherof wliich, however, attained to any great importance.Several other places which at a later period assumedmore or less of a Greek character, were probablyonly Ocnotrian towns, which had become graduallyIlellenised, but without ever receiving Greek colonies.Such were Pandosia, Petklia, Tkmesa, and pro­bably Stitli.etu'51 also, though this is frequentlyculled an Athenian colony. We have very little information as to the earlyhistory of these Greek cities in Italy. All accountsagree in representing them as rising rapidly to ahigh state of prosperity, and attaining to an amountof wealtli and power which far exceeded that enjoyedat so early a period by any of the cities of the mothercountry. The Achaean colonies, Sybaris, Crotona,mid Metapontum, seem to have been the first toAttain to this flourishing condition; and Sybarisespecially became proverbial for its wealth and theluxurious habits of its citizens. [Sybaris.] Therecan be no doubt that the extraordinary fertility ofthe district in which these colonies were foundedwas the primary cause of their prosperity; but theyappear, also, to have carried on an extensive foreigncommerce; and as they increased in power theysought to extend their territorial possessions, so thatwe are told that Sybaris, in the days of its greatness,ruled over twenty-five dependent cities, and fournations or tribes of the neighbouring Oenotriaus.(Strab. vi. p. 263.) It is remarkable how little wehear of any wars with the barbarians of the interior,or of any check to the progress of the Greek citiesarising from this cause; and it seems probable, notonly that the Pclasgic origin of these tribes [Oe*kotkia] caused them to assimilate with compa­rative facility with the Hellenic settlers, but thatntany of them were admitted to the full rights ofcitizens, and amalgamated into one body with theforeign colonists. This we know to have been thecase with Locri in particular (Pol. xii. 5); and therecan be little doubt that the same thing took placemore or less extensively in all the other cities.(I)iod. xii. 9.) It is, indeed, impossible, on anyother supposition, to explain the rapidity with whichthe»e rose to an amount of wealth and population atthat time unexampled in the Hellenic world. It seems certain that the period of about two cen­turies, which elapsed from the first settlement of theGreek colonies till after the fall of Sybaris (n.c.710—510), was that during which these, cities rose tothe height of their power; and probably the halfcentury preceding the latter event (n.c. 560—510)may he taken as the culminating point in the pro­sperity of the Achaean cities (Grote, vol.iii. p. 522.)Unfortunately, it is precisely for this period that weare the most absolutely deficient in historical in­formation. The loss of the early books of Diodorusis especially to bo regretted, as they would undoubt­edly have preserved to us many interesting noticesconcerning the early fortunes of the Greek cities,and at the same time have afforded us a clue to thechronological arrangement of the few scattered factsthat have been preserved to us. The want of thisrenders it impossible to connect the extant noticesinto anything like a historical narrative. Among the earliest of these may probably beplaced the league of the three great Achaean cities,Crotona, Sybaris, and Metapontum, for the expulsionof the lonians from their colony of Siris,—an union which appears to have led to the capture, and per­haps the destruction, of that city. (Justin, xx. S.)But the date of this event is almost wholly on->certain [Sims], and scarcely less so is that of themuch more celebrated battle of the Sagras, whichJustin connects with the fall of Siris; while otherauthors would bring it down to a much later period.[Sacra*.] According to all accounts, that (anxnubattle, in which it is said that 120,000 Crotoniauwere defeated by 10,000, or at most 15,000, rf theLocrians and Khegians, inflicted for a time a sever*blow upon the prosperity of Crotona: but Strabo iscertainly in error in representing that city as neverrecovering from its effects. [Crotona.] Justin, onthe contrary, describes the period of depression con­sequent on this disaster as continuing only till tb«time of Pythagoras (xx. 4); and it is certain thatin the days of that philosopher, Crotona, as well asthe neighbouring Achaean cities, appears in a fetateof great prosperity. It was about the year B.C. 530 that the arrivalof Pythagoras at Crotona gave rise to a markedchange in the cities of Magna Graecia. The extra­ordinary influence which he speedily acquired, wasnot confined to that city, but extended to Sybarisand Metapontum also, as well as to Rhegium andTarentum, And it was so far from being limited tothe proper sphere of philosophy, that it led to theintroduction of great political changes, and for atime threw the chief ascendency in the state intothe hands of the Pythagoreans. [Crotona.] Theirpower was ultimately overthrown by a violent rrvu-lution, which led to the expulsion of Pythagorashimself and his followers from Crotona; and thisseems to hare been followed by similar distnrbsno-ain the other cities. We are very imperfectly in­formed as to the circumstances of these revolutions,but it seems certain that they gave ri-e to a periodof disorder and confusion throughout the cities ofMagna Graecia from which the latter did not fullyrecover for a considerable period. (Pol. ii. 39; Justin,xx. 4; Iambi. Vit. Pyth. 258—264; Porphyr. V. /*.54—58.) It was apparently before the expulsion of tliePythagoreans, and while their influence wm* stillparamount at Crotona, that the final contest air»«between that city and Sybaris, which ended in tee­total destruction of the latter, B.C. 510. On thatoccasion we are told that the Crotoniats broughtinto the field 100,000 men, and the Sybarite* notless than 300,000; and though these numbers can­not be received as historically accurate, they suffici­ently prove the opinion entertained of the opulenceand power of the rival cities. The decisive victoryof the Crotoniats on the banks of the river Traetswas followed by the capture and total destruction «fSybaris, — an event which seems to have produced aprofound sensation in the Hellenic world (Herod, ri.21), and must have caused a great change in thepolitical relations of Magna Graecia. Unfortunately,we have no means of tracing these; we know nnjythat a part of the surviving Sybarites took refuge inthe colonial cities of Lalis aud Scidrus, while anotherportion settled themselves on the banks of the Traeta,where they maintained themselves for a oxuidcrabieperiod. (Herod. L e.; Strab. vi. pp. 263, 264.) The civil dissensions arising from the expulsion ofthe Pythagoreans may perhaps have been the causeof the remarkable circumstance (which we are other-wise at a loss to account for), that none of the state*of MagnaGraecia sent assistance to theUreeks at the