OCR Output 442 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.; Rhetorical 137. 143-87.140-91. 100. Course ofliteratureand rhe­toric. Lucilius' Poems, first to a select circle, and then in publicon set days and in presence of a great concourse, andoccasionally also to treat them critically after the precedentof the Homeric grammarians. These literary prelections,which cultivated dilettanti (Ktterati) held gratuitously, -werenot formally a part of juvenile instruction, but were yet anessential means of introducing the youth to the under­standing and the delivery of the classic Latin literature. The formation of Latin oratory took place in a similarway. The noble Roman youth, who were even at an earlyage instigated to come forward in public with panegyricsand forensic speeches, can never have wanted exercises inoratory ; but it was ouly at this epoch, and in consequence ofthe new exclusive culture, that there arose rhetoric properlyso called. Marcus Lepidus Porcina (consul in 617) is men­tioned as the first Roman advocate, who technically handledthe language and subject-matter; the two famous advocatesof the Marian age, the masculine and vigorous Marcus Anto-nius (611-667) and the elegant and chaste orator LuciusCrassus (614-663) were already complete rhetoricians.The exercises of the young men in speaking increasednaturally in extent and importance, but still remained, justlike the exercises in Latin literature, essentially limited tothe personal attendance of the beginner on the master of theart so as to be trained by his example and his instructions. Formal instruction both in Latin literature and in Latinrhetoric was given first about 650 by Lucius iElius Prs^coninus of Lanuvium, called the " penman" (Stilo), a distin­guished Roman knight of strict conservative views, who readPlantus and similar works with a select circle of youngermen—including Varro and Cicero—and sometimes also wentover outlines of speeches with the authors, or put similaroutlines into the hands of his friends. This was a realinstruction. Stilo however was not a professional school­master, but he taught literature and rhetoric, just as juris­prudence was taught at Rome, in the character of a seniorfriend of aspiring young men, not of a man hiring out brsservices and at every one's command. But about his time began also the scholastic higherinstruction in Latin, separated both from elementary Latinand from Greek instruction, and imparted in special esta­blishments by paid masters, ordinarily manumitted slaves.That its spirit and method were throughout borrowed from