OCR Output 206 ROMAN EMPIRK. assumed the character of a divine ambassador: a Ger­man chieftain was transformed into the Lord's anointed:and this Jewish rite has been diffused and maintainedby the superstition and vanity of modern Europe. TheFranks were absolved from their ancient oath; but adire anathema was thundered against them and theirposterity, if they should dare to renew the same freedomof choice, or to elect a king, except in the holy andmeritorious race of the Carlovingian princes. Withoutapprehending the future danger, these princes gloriedin their present security; the secretary of Charlemagneaffirms, that the French sceptre was transferred by theauthority of the popes;' and in their boldest enterprises,they insist, with confidence, on this signal and suc­cessful act of temporal jurisdiction.Patricians II. In the change of manners and language,of Rome. ^e patricians of Rome™ were far removed from the senate of Romulus, or the palace of Constantine,from the free nobles of the republic, or the fictitiousparents of the emperor. After the recovery of Italy andAfrica by the arms of Justinian, the importance anddanger of those remote provinces required the presenceof a supreme magistrate; he was indifferently styledthe exarch or the patrician; and these governors ofRavenna, who fill their places in the chronology ofprinces, extended their jurisdiction over the Romancity. Since the revolt of Italy and the loss of the ex­archate, the distress of the Romans had exacted somesacrifice of their independence. Yet, even in this act,they exercised the right of disposing of themselves; and foreign, Jewish, incomprehensible ceremony. Sea Selden's Titles of Honour, in hi>Works, vol. 3. part 1. p. 234—249. 1 See Eginhard, in Vitfi Caroli Magni, c. 1. p. 9, &c. c. 3. p. 24. Childeric wasdeposed—juati, Ihe Carlovingians were established—uuetorifote, Pontilices Ro­man i. Launoy, Sic. pretend that these strong words are susceptible of a very softinterpretation. Be it so; yet Eginhard understood the world, the court, and theLatin language. 111 For the title and powers of patrician of Rome, see Ducange, (Gloss. Latin,torn. 5. p. 149—151.) Pagi, (Critica, A.D. 740. no. 6—11.) Muratori, (Annalid'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 308—389.) and St. Marc. (Abr£ge Chronologique d'ltalie, torn. 1.p. 379—381.) Of these the Franciscan Pagi is the most disposed to make thepatrician a lieutenant of the church, rattier than of the empire.