OCR Output Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 243 emperor; and the spirit of Antioch was manifested chap.by the connivance of the magistrates, and the ap- X1x'plause of the multitude. The disciple of Socrateswas too deeply affected by these popular insults; butthe monarch, endowed with quick sensibility, andpossessed of absolute power, refused his passions thegratification of revenge. A tyrant might have pro­scribed, without distinction, the lives and fortunesof the citizens of Antioch; and the unwarlike Sy­rians must have patiently submitted to the lust, therapaciousness, and the cruelty, of the faithful legionsof Gaul. A milder sentence might have deprivedthe capital of the East of its honours and privileges;and the courtiers, perhaps the subjects, of Julian,would have applauded an act of justice, which assertedthe dignity of the supreme magistrate of the republic.But instead of abusing, or exerting, the authorityof the state, to revenge his personal injuries, Julian juiiancontented himself with an inoffensive mode of retali- f°!"P°!es & Satire ation, which it would be in the power of few princes ^"jj18^to employ. He had been insulted by satires andlibels; in his turn be composed, under the title ofthe Enemy of the Beard, an ironical confession ofhis own faults, and a severe satire of the licentiousand effeminate manners of Antioch. This Imperialreply was publicly exposed before the gates of thepalace; and the Misopogon* still remains a sin­gular monument of the resentment, the wit, thehumanity, and the indiscretion, of Julian. Thoughhe affected to laugh, he could not forgive t. Hiscontempt was expressed, and his revenge might be * On the subject of the Misopogon, see Ammianus (xxii. 14.), Libanius(Orat. Parentalis, c xcix. p. 323.), Gregory Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p. 133.), andthe Chronicle of Antioch, by John Malela (torn. ii. p. 15, 16.). I have essentialobligations to the translation and notes of the Abbe de la Bleterie (Vie de Jovien,torn. ii. p. 1—138.). f Ammianus very justly remarks, Coactus dissimulare pro tempore ira. suffla-batur interna. The elaborate irony of Julian at length bursts forth into seriousand direct invective.