OCR Output THE EQUESTRIAN ORDER. 25 This distinction, however, took place at a late period. For wefind that the heralds (praecones)8 commonly used this particularkind of wide purple tunic, as was the case with the father of Lu-cilius .(Elius Stilo, who, on this account, was named Prasconicus.The rings, therefore, formed a third order, which was intermediatebetween the people and the partricians; the name, which was for­merly bestowed in consequence of the possession of a militaryhorse, being now given as an indication of wealth. But thischange did not take place until the time of the late Emperor Au­gustus,9 who, when he arranged the seats of the Judges, foundthat the greater part of them wore iron rings; and these were notcalled knights, but judges. The name of knight was still attachedto those who composed the troops of cavalry. At first there wereonly four orders of judges, and there was scarcely a thousand ineach order, the inhabitants of the provinces not being yet admittedinto the office; and it still remains a practice, that none of thenewly made citizens should be admitted among them. The orders themselves were distinguished by different names,as the Tribunes of the Treasury, the Select, and the Judges, pro­perly so called. Besides these there were the Nine Hundred,chosen from all the orders, for the purpose of guarding the boxesthat contained the suffrages of the general assemblies; and thislast order was also divided, in consequence of the pride of indivi­duals in assuming particular names, one person styling himself amember of the Nine Hundred, another one of the Select, andanother one of the Tribunes. 8. OF THE EQUESTRIAN ORDER./ At length, in the 9th year of the Emperor Tiberius, the wholeof the equestrian order was reduced to an equality of rank: it wasdecided who were entitled to wear rings in the consulship of C.Asinius Publio and C. Antistius Vetus, in the year of the city575. We may well wonder at the very slight cause which pro­duced this change. C. Sulpitius Galba, wishing to acquire someyouthful fame in the eyes of the prince, formed a plan for inflic-ing penalties on the keepers of taverns, and complained in thesenate that the persons who were liable to this punishment defended * For an account of the office of the Praeco, see Adam, p. 177, 8.» "Divus Augustus."