OCR Output NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixt delight in recording the wonderful deaths of thepersecutors, I would recommend to their perusalan admirable passage of Grorus iHist. 1. vii. p.352.) concerning the last illness of Philip II. ofSpain. [39] See Euscbius, 1. if. 6. 10. Lactantius deM. P. c. 36. Zosimus is less exact, and evidentlyconfounds Maximian with Maximin. [40] See the viiith Panegyric, in which Eu-menius displays, in the presence of Constantine,the misery and the gratitude of the city of Autun. [41] Eutropius, x. 3. Panegyr. Vcter. vii. 10,11,12. A great number of the French youth werelikewise exposed to the same cruel and ignominiousdeath. [42] Julian excludes Maxentius from the banquetof the Cæsars with abhorrence and contempt; andZosimus (1. ii. p. 85.) accuses him of every kind ofcruelty and profligacy. [43] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 83—85. AureliusVictor. [44] The passage of Aurelius Victor mould beread in the following manner. Primus institutopeflimo, muntrum specie, Patres Oratorefque pecu-niam conferre prodigenti sibi cogeret. [4;] Panegyr. Vet. ix, 3. Euseb. Hist. Eccles.viii 14, et in Vit. Constantin. i. 33, 34. Rufinus,c. 17. The virtuous Matron, who stabbed herselfto escape the violence of Maxentius, was a Christian,wife to the prefect of the city, and her name wasSophronia. It still remains a question among thecasuists, whether, on such occasions, Suicide isjustifiable. [46] Prætorianis cxdem vulgi quondam annueret,is the vague expression of Aurelius Victor. Seemore particular, though somewhat different, ac­counts of a tumult and massacre, which happenedat Rome, in Eusebius (I. viii. c. 14 ) and in Zosi­mus (1. ii. p. 84..). [47] See in the Panegyrics (ix. 14.). a lively de­scription of the indolence and vain pride of Max­entius. In another place, the orator observes, theniches which Rome had accumulated in a period of1060 years, were lavished by the tyrant on his mer-7 cenary bands; rederriptis ad civilelatrocinium ma-nibus ingesserat. [4R] After the victory of Constantine, it wasuniversally allowed, that the motive of deliveringthe republic from a detested tyrant, would, at anytime, havejuilified his expedition into Italy. Euseb.in Vit. Constantine, 1. i. c. 26. Panegyr. Vet.ix. 2. [49] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 84, 85. Nazarius inPanegyr. x. 7—13 . [^o] See Panegyr. Vet. ix. 2. Omnibus feretuis Comitibus et Ducibus non solum tacite muf-santibus, fed etiam aperte timentibus; contra con-silia hominum, contra Haruspicum monita, ipseper temet liberandæ urbis tempus venifle scntirej.The embassy of the Romans is mentioned only byZonaras (1. xiii.) and by Cedrenus (in Ccmpend.Hist. p. 2;o.): but those modern Greeks had theopportunity of consulting many writers which havesince been lost, among which we may reckon thelife of Constantine by Praxagoras, an Atheniaaphilosopher. Photius (p. 63.) has drawn a stiortextract from that historical work. [51] Zosimus (I. ii. p. 86.) has given us thiscurious account of the forces on both sides. Hemakes no mention of any naval armaments, thoughwe are assured (Panegyr. 'Vet. ix. 25.) that the warwas carried on by/ea as well as by land; and thatthe fleet of Constantine took possession of Sardinia,Corsica, and the ports of Italy. [52] Panegyr. Vet- ix. 3. It is not surprisingthat the orator should diminish the numbers withwhich his sovereign atchieved the conquest of Italy;but it appears somewhat singular, that he shouldesteem the tyrant's army at no more than ico.coomen. [55] The three principal passages of the Alpsbetween Gaul andltaly, are those ot'Mount St Ber­nard, Mount Cenis. and Mount Genevre. Tradi­tion, and a resemblance of names (Alfes Ptnnintr),had assigned the first of these for the march of Han­nibal (See Simler de Alpibus). The v. hevalier deFolard (Polybe, torn, iv.) and M. Danville haveled him over Mount Genevre. But notwithstand­ing the authority of an experienced officer, and alearned geographer, the pretensions of Mount Cenis