OCR Output A. D. IS.] 57 OF TACITUS. " of scorn and insolence to the colours and the Roman" eagles." LXII. Six years had elapsed since the overthrowof Varus; and now, on the same spot, the Romanarmy collected the bones of their slaughtered country­men. Whether they were burying the remains ofstrangers, or of their own friends, no man knew: all,however, considered themselves as performing thelast obsequies to their kindred, and their brother sol­diers. While employed in this pious office, their heartswere torn with contending passions; by turns op­pressed with grief, and burning for revenge. A monu­ment to the memory of the dead was raised with turf.Germanicus with his own hand laid the first sod; dis­charging at once the tribute due to the legions, andsympathizing with the rest of the army. The whole,though an act of piety to the slain, was condemnedby Tiberius. The malignity of his nature led him tomisinterpret the actions of Germanicus; perhaps howas apprehensive, that the view of a field covered'with the unburied limbs of a slaughtered arjny,might damp the ardour of the soldier, and add to theferocity of the enemy. There might be another rea­son for his displeasure. Perhaps he thought that ageneral, invested with the office of augur, and otherreligious functions, ought not to assist at the per­formance of funeral rites. LXIII. Germanicus pressed forward, by rapidmarches, in pursuit of Arminius, who fled before him.taking advantage of the defiles, and difficult part ofthe country. Having overtaken the barbarians, andseeing his opportunity, be ordered the cavalry to ad­vance on the open plain, and dislodge the enemy.Arminius drew up his men in close compacted ranks,and feigning a retreat to the forest, suddenly wheeledabout; giving, at the same time, the signal to thetroops that lay ambushed in the woods, to rush out,and begin the attack. The Roman cavalry, struckwith surprise at the sudden appearance of a new army,were thrown into disorder. They fell back upon thecohorts sent to support them, and a general conster­nation followed. The barbarians pursued their ad­