OCR Output an. 1062.] 259 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. what it was they would hare? And whenthey desired to have *seven sons of Saul de­livered to them, to be punished, he deliveredthem up; but spared Mephibo9heth, the sonof Jonathan. So when the Gibeonites hadreceived the men, they punished them asthey pleased. Upon which God began tosend rain, and to recover the earth to bringforth its fruits, as usual, and to free it fromthe drought; so that the country of the He­brews flourished again. A little afterward the king made waragainst the Philistines; and when he hadjoined battle with them, and put them toflight, he was left alone, as he was in pursuitof them: and when he was quite tired down,he was seen by one of the enemy: his namewas fAchmon, the son of Araph, and of thesons of the giants. He had a spear, thehandle of which weighed three hundredshekels, a breast-plate of chain-work, and asword. He turned back and ran violently toslay David, their enemy's king: for he wasquite tired out with labour. But Abishai,Joab's brother, appeared at this juncture,and protected the king with his shield, as helay down, and slew the enemy. Now themultitude was very uneasy at these dangersof the king, and that he was very near to beslain. And the rulers made him swear thathe would no more go out with them tobattle, lest he should come to some greatmisfortune by his courage and boldness;and thereby deprive the people of the bene­fits they now enjoyed by his means, and ofthose that they might hereafter enjoy by hisliving among them. When the king heard that the Philistineswere assembled atJ the city Gazara, he sentan army against them; when Sibbechai, theHittite, one of David's most courageous men,behaved himself so as to deserve great com­mendation; for he slew many of those thatboasted they were the posterity of the giants,and vaunted themselves highly on that ac­count; and he thereby was the occasion ofvictory to the Hebrews. After this, the Phi­listines made war again; and when Davidhad sent an army against them, Nephan, hiskinsman, fought in a single combat with thestoutest of all the Philistines, and slew him,and put the rest to flight: many of them alsowere slain in the battle. Now a little whileafterward, the Philistines pitched their campat a city, which lay not far off the bounds ofthe country of the Hebrews. They had aman who was six cubits high; and had oneach of his feet and hands one more toe andfinger than men naturally have. Now theperson who was sent against them by David,out of his army, was Jonathan, the son ofShimea, who fought this man in singlecombat, and slew him: and as he was theperson who gave the turn to the battle, hegained the greatest reputation for couragetherein. This man also vaunted himself tobe of the giants. But after this fight thePhilistines made war no more against theIsraelites. And now David, being freed from wars anddangers, and enjoying a profound peace,||composed songs and hymns to God, of severasorts of metre: some of those which he madewere trimeters, and some were pentameters: * Those probably, who had been most active in theslaughter of the Gibeonites. t Ishby the son of Ob, 2 Sam. xxi. 16. } About an. 1059.This shews, that in the opinion of Josephus, Davidcomposed the Book of Psalms, not at several times be­fore, as their present inscriptions frequently imply; butgenerally at the latter end of his life, or after his warswere over. Nor does Josephus, nor the authors of theknown books of the Old and New Testaments, nor theApostolical Constitutions, seem to have ascribed any ofthem to any other author than to David himself. How­ever he must observe here, that as Josephus says, Antiq.H. 16. that the song at the Red Sea, Exod. xv. 1—21,was composed by Moses, in the hexameter tune, or metre;as also Antiq. IV. 8, that the song of Moses, Deut. xxxii.1—43, was an hexameter poem; so does he say, that thePsalms of David were of various kinds of metre; andVOL. I.—NOS. 21 & 22. particularly that they contained trimeters and pentame­ters, Antiq. VII. 12, all which implies, that he thoughtthese Hebrew poems might be best described to theGreeks and Romans under those names and characters ofHexameters, Trimeters, and Pentameters. Now it ap­pears, that the instruments of music that were originallyused, by the command of king David and Solomon, andwere carried to Babylon at the captivity of the twotribes, were brought back after that captivity: as alsothat the singers and musicians, who survived that cap­tivity, came back with those instruments: Ezra ii. 41,vii. 24. Nehem. vii. 44. Joseph. Antiq. XI. 3, 4, 5, andthat this music, and these instruments at the temple, couldnot but be well known to Josephus, a priest belonging tothat temple; who accordingly gives us a short descriptionof three of the instruments: Antiq. VII. 12, and givesus a distinct account, that such psalms and hymns weresung in his days at that temple: Antiq. XX. 9. So that 3C