OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 153 is lost in a vague constellation of virtues: and the per­petual strain of panegyric and apology awakens our jea­lousy,, to question the veracity of the historian and themerit of the hero. We cannot however refuse her ju­dicious and important remark, that the disorders of thetimes were the misfortune and the glory of Alexius; andthat every calamity which can afflict a declining empirewas accumulated on his reign by the justice of Heavenand the vices of his predecessors. In the east, the vic­torious Turks had spread, from Persia to Hellespont,the reign of the Koran and the crescent: the west wasinvaded by the adventurous valour of the Normans; and,in the moments of peace, the Danube poured forth newswarms, who had gained, in the science of war, whatthey had lost in the ferociousness of manners. The seawas not less hostile than the land; and while the fron­tiers were assaulted by an open enemy, the palace wasdistracted with secret treason and conspiracy. On asudden, the banner of the cross was displayed by theLatins: Europe was precipitated on Asia; and Constan­tinople had almost been swept away by this impetuousdeluge. In the tempest, Alexis steered the imperialvessel with dexterity and courage. At the head of hisarmies, he was bold in action, skilful in stratagem, pa­tient of fatigue, ready to improve his advantages, andrising from his defeats with inexhaustible vigour. Thediscipline of the camp was revived, and a new generationof men and soldiers was created by the example and theprecepts of their leader. In his intercourse with theLatins, Alexius was patient and artful: his discerningeye pervaded the new system of an unknown world;and I shall hereafter describe the superior policy withwhich he balanced the interests and passions of thechampions of the first crusade. In a long reign ofthirty-seven years, he subdued and pardoned the envyof his equals: the laws of public and private order wererestored: the arts of wealth and science were cultivated: