OCR Output CHAP. 3. ROMAN HISTORY. 109 ing, and sonffitimes advising him to suffer himself to beprevailed upon, by the united wishes of his country. Hethen began to consider, that after he should be returnedto the condition of a private citizen, he might be obligedto leave the city, his estate might be confiscated, and be­sides, he might receive some other mark of disgrace;wherefore, he resigned the consulship, and having con­veyed all his effects to Lavinium, he retired from Rome.Brutus, by a decree of the senate, moved to thepeople, that all the family of the Tarquins should bebanished: and in an assembly by centuries, he got Pub-lius Valerius, who had assisted him in expelling theTarquins, to be chosen his colleague. CHAP. III. Deputies from the Tarquins arrive at Rome. .ALTHOUGH nobody doubted that the Tarquinswould have recourse to arms, yet that happened not sosoon as was generally expected: The Romans were onthe point, however, of losing their liberty by deceitfuland treasonable practices, of which they had never en­tertained a suspicion. Among the Roman youth, there were some of illus­trious families, who, during the late reign had pursuedtheir pleasures without restraint; and being much aboutthe same age, and much in company with the youngTarquins, were accustomed to take all the liberties com­mon to princes. Wishing still to live in the same licetvtious stile, although now every citizen was upon the samefooting, they complained to one another, that whateverliberty other men enjoyed, they saw nothing for them­selves but slavery. "A king, continued they, is a man;—from whom you may obtain justice; and in case ofneed, you may have indulgence too. Here there is aplea for interest and favour. A king can both showhis resentment and 'his clemency, and distinguish afriend from a foe. But the laws, always deaf and in-"exorable, are better calculated for the poor than the"rich! only once transgress them, and you will find,"that neither indulgence nor pardon is competent. F