OCR Output 220 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. commandments, as I foretold to thee while Iwas alive. Know, therefore, that the peopleshall be made subject to their enemies; andthat thou, with thy sons, shall fall in the battleto-morrow; and thou s-halt then be with* mein Hades." When Saul had heard this, he could notspeak for grief; but fell down on the floor.Whether it were from the sorrow that aroseupon what Samuel had said, or from hisemptiness; for he had taken no food the fore- Soing day aitd night; he easily fell quiteown. And when with difficulty he had re­covered himself, the woman would force himto eat; begging this of him as a favour, onaccount of her concern in that dangerous in­stance of fortune-telling, which it was notlawful for her to have done, because of thefear she was under of the king; while sheknew not who he was; yet did she undertakeit, and go through with it. On which accountshe intreated him to admit that a table andfood might be set before him; that he mightrecover his strength, and so get safe to hisown camp. And when he opposed her mo­tion, and entirely rejected itT by reason of hisanxiety, she forced him; and at last persuadedhim to it. Now she had one calf, that shewas very fond of, and one that she took agreat deal of care of, and fed it herself; forshe was a woman that got her living by thelabour of her own hands, and had no otherpossession but that one calf This she killed,and made ready its flesh, and set it before hi*servants and himself. So Saul returned to thecamp while it was yet night. Now it is but just tof commend the gene­rosity of this woman; because, when the kinghad forbidden her to use that art, whence hercircumstances were improved; and when shehad never seen the king before, she still didnot remember to his disadvantage that he hadcondemned her sort of learning, and did notrefuse him as a stranger, and one that shehad no acquaintance with; but she had com­passion upon him, and comforted him, andexhorted him to do what he was greatly averseto; and offered him the only creature shehad, as a poof woman; and that earnestly, and with great humanity; while she receivedno requital for her kindness, nor hunted afterany future favour from him; for she knew hewas to die. Whereas men are naturally eitherambitious to please those that bestow benefitsupon them, or are very ready to serve thosefrom whom they may receive some advantage.It would be well therefore to imitate the ex­ample of this woman, and to do kindness toall such as are in want; and to think thatnothing is better, nor more becoming thansuch a general beneficence; nor what willsooner render God favourable, and ready tobestow good things upon us. And so far maysuffice to have spoken concerning this woman.But I shall speak farther upon another sub­ject; which will afford me the opportunity ofdiscoursing on what is for the advantage ofcities, people, and nations, and suited to thetaste of good men; and will encourage themall in the prosecution of virtue, and is capableof shewing them the method of acquiringglory, and an everlasting fame; and of im­printing on the kings of nations, and the rulersof cities, great inclinations and diligence bidoing well; as also of encouraging them toundergo dangers, and to die for their coun­tries, and of instructing them how to disposeall the most terrible adversities. And I havea fair occasion offered me to enter on such adiscourse by Saul, the king of the Hebrews.For although he knew what was coming uponhim, and that he was to die immediately, bythe prediction of the prophet, he did not re­solve to fly from death, nor so far to indulgethe love of life, as to betray his own peopleto the enemy* of to bring disgrace on theroyal dignity. But exposing himself, as wellas all his family, to dangers, he thought it abrave thing to fall together with them, as hewas fighting for his subjects; and that it wasbetteF his sons- should die thus, shewing theircourage, than to leave them to their uncertainconduct afterwards; while instead of succes­sion and posterity they gained commendation,and a lasting name. Such an one alone seemsto me to be a just, a courageous, and a pru­dent man; and when any one has arrived atthese dispositions, or shall hereafter arrive at * I Sam. xjviii. 19. t These great commendations of this necromantic wo­man of Endor, and of Saul's martial courage, when yet heVnew he should die in the" battle, are somewhat unusual digressions in Josephus. They seem to me extractedfrom some speeches or declamations of his, composed for­merly in the way of oratory, that lay by him; and whichhe thought fit to insert upon this occasion.