OCR Output T-HE DECLINE AND FALL supply of wholesome and plentiful food for the cattle during winter,multiplied the number of the flocks and herds, which in theirturn contributed to the fertility of the foil. To all these im­provements may be added an asliduous attention to mines andfisheries, ;which, ,by employing a multitude of laborious hands,serve to increase the pleasures of the rich, and the subsistence ofthe poor. The elegant treatise of Columella describes the advancedstate of. the Spanish husbandry, under the reign of Tiberius; andit may be observed, that those famines which so frequently afflictedthe infant republic, were seldom or never experienced by the ex­tensive empire of Rome. The accidental scarcity, in any singleprovince, was immediately relieved by the plenty of its more fortu­nate neighbours^ ... t , • '. '' >' Agriculture is. the foundation of manufactures; since the pro­ductions of nature are the materials of art. Under the Romanempire, the labour of an industrious and ingenious people was.variously, but incessantly employed, in the service of the rich.In their dress, their table, their houses, and their furniture, thefavourites of fortune united every refinement of conveniency, ofelegance, and of splendour; whatever could sooth their pride orgratify their sensuality. Such refinements, under the odious nameof luxury, have been severely arraigned by the moralists of everyage; and it might perhaps be more conducive to the virtue, aswell- as happiness of mankind, if all possessed the necessaries,and none the superfluities of life. But in the present imperfectcondition of society, luxury, though it may proceed from vice orfolly, seems to be the only means that can correct the unequal dis­tribution of property. The diligent mechanic, and the skilfulartist, who have obtained no share in the division of the earth,receive a voluntary taxi from the possessors of land; and the latterare prompted, by a fense of interest, to improve those estates, withwhose produce they may purchase . additional pleasures. This-'y-fi operation>