OCR Output 118S TIIRACIA.THRACIA. sued for peace, which was at length granted to bin(n.c. 188) on condition of his abandoning all bitdominions vv&,t of the Taurus (Liv. xxxviii. 36).The Romans pave the Chersonesus and its depend­encies to their ally Eumenes (ib. 39). As indica­tive of tho internal condition of Thrace, even alongthe great southern road, the account which Livy (16.40, seq.) gives of the march of the consul Manlius'army through the country on its return from AsiaMinor, is highly interesting. The army was loadedwith booty, conveyed in a long train of baggage-waggons, which presented an irresistible temptationto the predatory tribes through who«e territories itsroute lay. They accordingly attacked the armyin a dWile, and were not beaten off until they had suc­ceeded in tbeir object of sharing in the plunder of Asia, The possession of the Chersonesus by Kumenessoon led to disagreements with Philip, who wascharged by Kumenes (n.c. l$.j) with having seizedu\*>n Maroneia and Aenus, places which he covetedfor himself. (Liv. xxxix. 24, 27). The Romansinsisted upon the withdrawal of the Macedoniangarrisons (n.c. 184), and l'hilip, sorely against hiswill, was obliged to obey. He wreaked his angeropon the defenceless citizens of Maroneia, by con­niving at, if not actually commanding, the massacreof a great Dumber of them (ib, 33, 34). In thecourse of the disputes about these cities, it wasstated (bat at the end of the war with Philip, theRoman commissioner, Q. Fabius Labeo, had fixedupon the king's road, which is described as nowhereapproaching the sea, as the S. boundary of Philip'spOBteadOBl in Thrace; but that Philip had after­wards formed a new road, considerably to the 8.,anil had thus included the cities and lands of theMaronitM in his territories (ib. 27). In the same year, Philip undertook an expeditioninto the interior of Thrace, where he was fetteredby no engagements with the Romans. He defeatedthe Thracians in a battle, and took their leaderAnudocui prisoner. Before returning to Mace­donia lie sent envoys to the barbarians on theDanube to invite them to make an incursion intoItaly (ib. 35). Again in B.C. 183, Philip marchedagainst the Odrysae, Denthcletae and ttessi, tookPhilippopolis, which its inhabitants had abandonedat his approach, anil placed a garrison in it, whichthe Odrysae, however, soon afterwards drove out(ib. 53), In u.c. 182, Philip removed nearly allthe inhabitants of the coast of Macedonia into theinterior, and supplied their places by Thraciansand other barbarians, on whom he thought he couldmore safely depend in the war with the Romans,which he now saw was inevitable (Liv. eL 3). Hehad done something of the same kind a few yearsbefore (Id. xxxix. 24). Philip's ascent of the Haemus, already referred to,took place in u.c. 181: on the summit he erectedaltars to Jupiter and the Sun. On his way back hisarmy plundered the Dentheletae; and in Maedica hetook a town called Petra. (Liv. xl. 21. seq.) Philip died in b. c. 179, and his successorPerseus continued the preparation! which hisfather had made for renewing the war with Rome,which did not begin, however, till B* c. 171. TheRomans had formed an alliance the year before witha number of independent Thraeian tribes, who hadsent ambassadors to Rome for the purpose, and whowere likely to be formidable foes to Perseus. TheRomans took tare to send valuable presents to thepriucipal Thracians, their ambassadors having no doubt impressed upon the scute the anas*Wcompliance with this national etataL. (L* tu. iS ■ The advantage of this alliance mw «Cotya, king of the Odrysae, in iQj «* Feastand marched with bim to meet the Rot aThessaly, but with only 1000 horse isd 1000 Ha force which shows how greatly tlx p«f 41Odrysiau monarchy had dec lined sine* thr tap •*SitaJces (ib. 51). Cotya oenMadti ill tit Ib-cians in Perseus's army in the first teppatfwith the Roman cavalry, which wis defneai [k57, seq.). When Perseus retreated into Sweata report was brought that the Tbracic iQa iRome had invaded the dominions of C*ryt, naiPerseus was therefore obliged to dismiss iarprotection (ib. 67), and he does not seem tehraa*sonally taken any further part in the *n.he probably sent part of his forces to sa« Peaa(xliv. 42). His son Bitis fell into uVaeWthe Romans, after the battle of Prdis (ae168), which put an end to the lUceioaa tifdom. Cotys sent ambassadors to Boa* *vour to ransom his son, and to excoae hbarffcfhaving sided with Perseus. The senatehis offers of money, but liberated bisa considerable sum to each of the Thraoaisadors. The reason it assigned for tabwas the old friendship which had exai&i I*- IRome and Cotys and his ancestors. Tt*were evidently unwilling to encase istlie Thraeian people at this time; andto secure friends among them for thf ate***peace of Macedonia, which, though not yet atmade a province, was completely in il***They sent (d. c. 167) three cHntroasaeaeaduct Bitisand the other Thracians home;same time, no doubt, to make ofcarriBaw"'state of that country. (Liv. xlv. 42). After the fall of Perseus, the senate inae* Idominions into fuur districts (rfyiwaef), ^* ^*which included the territory tetween tttNrrtai ]and the Nest us, and all the Macedonias ,east of the latter, except Aer.ua, Maruooa. aC 1dera: Bisaltica and Sintice, west of ti»also belonged to this district, the capital «f »■■was Amphipolis. (lb. 29.) It is imporEaat *icollect that the Thrace spoken of by l*thistorians subsequently to this tin* does a* ithe territories here specified, which tbeesaiW^stituted an integral part of Macedonia From the year b. c 143, when theundertook the direct government of th"*they were brought into contact with the «barbarous nations on its frontiers, and w*ttinually at war with one or another of tkei risome years, however, their chiel occopsnat***the Scordisci, a people of Celtic on£tn ****settled south of the Danube, and oftenting incursions into the more ciriusedsouth. They are sometimes catted Tfcrw»»by Florae, iii. 4 ; cf. Amm. urn 4. \ *\ ■*the less surprising when we ranewkr Uatnumbers of Celts had settled in SsalatBand would soon be confounded under■with the other occupants of thetory of all this period, up to the tia» ■is very obscure, owiug to the Joss of s» gof Livy s work ; enough, however, sff**3 *writers to show that Thrace was WftaBs*to its native rulers, the Romans rare!; ait except when provoked by the preiiWT 1