OCR Output .r)lO ROMAN EMPIRE. and clothed on the same day with the son of the Fati-mite caliph. The Arabian squadrons issued from theharbours of Palermo, Biserta, and Tunis; a hundred andfifty towns of Calabria and Campania were attacked andpillaged; nor could the suburbs of Rome be defendedby the name of the Caesars and apostles. Had the Ma­hometans been united, Italy must have fallen an easyand glorious accession to the empire of the prophet. Butthe caliphs of Bagdad had lost their authority in thewest; the Aglabites and Fatimites usurped the pro­vinces of Africa; their emirs of Sicily aspired to inde­pendence; and the design of conquest and dominionwas degraded to a repetition of predatory inroads.*1invasion of 'n ^e sufferings of prostrate Italy, the name ofRome by Rome awakens a solemn and mournful reflec-cens, tion. A fleet of Saracens from the African coastpresumed to enter the mouth of the Tyber, and toapproach a city which even yet, in her fallen state, wasrevered as the metropolis of the Christian world. Thegates and ramparts were guarded by a trembling people;but the tombs and temples of St. Peter and St. Paul wereleft exposed in the suburbs of the Vatican and of theOstian way. Their invisible sanctity had protected themagainst the Goths, the Vandals, and the Lombards; butthe Arabs disdained both the gospel and the legend;and their rapacious spirit was approved and animated bythe precepts of the Koran. The Christian idols werestripped of their costly offerings; a silver altar was tornaway from the shrine of St. Peter; and if the bodies orthe buildings were left entire, their deliverance must beimputed to the haste, rather than the scruples, of the Sa­racens. In their course along the Appian way, they pil­laged Fundi and besieged Gayeta ; but they had turnedaside from the walls of Rome, and, by their divisions, the i The extracts from the Arabic histories of Sicily are giren in Abulfeda, (Annal.Moslem, p. 271—273.) and in the first volume of Muratori's Scriptores Kenan It»-ficarnrn. M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 363, 364.) has added someimportant facts.