OCR Output 268 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. alone, having estate of 100,000 sesterces (£1050) or up­wards, possessed almost half of the votes. Practically therewas thus introduced for the election of consuls, praetors,and censors, a census which really excluded the non-wealthyfrom exercising the suffrage. The legislative initiative inthe case of the tribunes of the people was restricted by therule, that every proposal had henceforth to be submitted bythem in the first instance to the senate and could only comebefore the people in the event of the senate approving it. These enactments which were called forth by the Sul-pician attempt at revolution from the man who then cameforward as the shield and sword of the constitutional party—the consul Sulla—bear an altogether peculiar character.Sulla ventured, without consulting the burgesses or jury­men, to pronounce sentence of death on twelve of the mostdistinguished men including magistrates actually in officeand the most famous general of his time, and publicly to de­fend these proscriptions; a violation of the venerable andsacred laws of appeal, which met with severe censure evenfrom very conservative men, such as Quintus Scaevola. Heventured to overthrow an arrangement as to the electionswhich had subsisted for a century and a half, and to restore theelectoral census which had been long obsolete and proscribed.He ventured practically to withdraw the right of legislationfrom its two primitive factors, the magistrates and the co-mitia, and to transfer it to a board which had at no time pos­sessed formally any other privilege in this respect than thatof being asked for its advice (i. 326). Hardly had any demo­crat ever exercised justice in forms so tyrannical, or dis­turbed and remodelled the foundations of the constitutionwith so reckless an audacity, as this conservative reformer.But if we look at the substance instead of the form, wereach very different conclusions. Revolutions have nowhereended, and least of all in Rome, without demanding a certainnumber of victims, who under forms more or less bor­rowed from justice atone for the fault of defeat as thoughit were a crime. Any one who recalls the succession ofprosecutions carried on by the victorious partv after thefall of the Gracchi and Saturninus (P. 95,129, 216.) will beinclined to yield to the victor of the Esquiline market thepraise of candour and comparative moderation, in so far as,first, he without ceremony accepted as war what was reallysuch and proscribed the men who were defeated as enemies