OCR Output 388 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. CHAP. XII. Many tumults tinder Cumanus, luUch "were composed by ^ua-dratus. Felix is procurator of Judea. dgrippa is advancedfrom Clalcis to a greater kingdom. $ 1. 'M'OW after the death of Herod, king of Chalcls, Claudiusset Agrippa, the son of Agrippa, over his uncle's king.dom, while Cumanus took upon him the office of procurator ofthe rest, which was a Roman province, and therein he succeededAlexander, under which Cumanus began the troubles, and theJews ruin came on; fur when the multitude were come togetherto Jerusalem, to the feast of unleavened bread, and a Roman co­hort stood over the cloisters of the temple, (for they always werearmed and kept guard at the festivals, to prevent any innovation,which the multitude thus gathered together might make), oneof the soldiers pulled back his garment, and couring down afteran indecent manner, and turned his breech tothe Jews, and spakesuch -words as you may expect upon such a posture. At thiathe whole multitude had indignation, and made a clamour toCumanus, that he would punish the soldier; while the rasherpart of the youth, and such as were naturally the most tumultu­ous, fell to fighting, and caught up stones, and threw them at thesoldiers. Upon which Cumanus was afraid lest all the peopleshould make an assault upon him, and sent to call for more arm.ed men, who, when they came in great numbers into the clois­ters, the Jews were in a very great consternation, and beingbeaten out of the temple, they ran into the city, and the vio­lence with which they crowded to get out was so great, thatthey trode upon each other, and squeezed one another, till tenthousand of them were killed, insomuch that this feast becamethe cause of mourning to the whole nation, and every familylamented [their own relations}. 2. Now there followed after this another calamity, which a-rose from a tumult made by robbers; for at the public road ofBeth-lioron, one Stephen, a servant of Caesar, carried some furni­ture, which the' robbers fell upon, and seized; upon this Cuma­nus sent men to go round about to the neighbouring villages, andto bringtheir inhabitants to him bound, aslaying it totheirchargethat they had not pursued after the thieves, and caught them.Now here it was that a certain soldier, finding the sacred bookof the law, tore it to pieces, and * threw it into the fire. Here­upon the Jews were in great disorder, as if their whole country were * Reland notes here, that the Talmud, in recounting ten sad accidents for whichthe Jews ought to rend their garments, reckons this for or.e, " When they htfcr" that t}ie law of God is bjirn?,"