OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 63 liveth for ever, that your skin shall be flayed from yourbody."" If the creed of Theodora had not been tainted with Her vir«heresy, her exemplary devotion might have atoned, in,u"'the opinion of her contemporaries, for pride, avarice,and cruelty. But if she employed her influence to as­suage the intolerant fury of the emperor, the present agewill allow some merit to her religion, and much indul­gence to her speculative errors.1 The name of Theodorawas introduced, with equal honour, in all the pious andcharitable foundations of Justinian ; and the most bene­volent institution of his reign may be ascribed to thesympathy of the empress for her less fortunate sisters,who had been seduced or compelled to embrace the tradeof prostitution. A palace, on the Asiatic side of theBosphorus, was converted into a stately and spacious mo>-nastery, and a liberal maintenance was assigned to fivehundred women, who had been collected from the streetsand brothels of Constantinople. In this safe and holyretreat, they were devoted to perpetual confinement; andthe despair of some, who threw themselves headlong intothe sea, was lost in the gratitude of the penitents, whohad been delivered from sin and misery by their gene­rous benefactress.™ The prudence of Theodora is cele­brated by Justinian himself; and his laws are attributedto the sage counsels of his most reverend wife, whomhe had received as the gift of the Deity." Her couragewas displayed amidst the tumult of the people and theterrors of the court. Her chastity, from the momentof her union with Justinian, is founded on the silence ofher implacable enemies: and, although the daughter of k Per viventem in saecula excoriari te faciam. Anastasius de Vitis Pout. Roman.in Vigilio, p. 40. 1 Ladewig, p. 161—166. I give him credit for the charitable attempt, althoughk hath not much charity in his temper. ■ Compare the Anecdotes (c. 17.) with the Edifices (lib. 1. c. 9.) How differentlyK'y the same fact be stated! John Malala (tom. 2. p. 174,175.) observes, that onthis or a similar occasion, she released and clothed the girls whom she had purchasedfrom the stews at five aurei a-piece. ° Novel. 8.1. An allusion to Theodora, Her enemies read (he name Dscniouo-<W (Aleman. p. 66.)