OCR Output 0. III.] THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. 91 the temple of God a strong-hold for them, and a place whitherthey might resort, in order to avoid the troubles they fearedfrom the people: the sanctuary was now become a refugeand a shop of tyranny. They also mixed jesting among themiseries they introduced, which was more intolerable thanwhat they did; for, in order to try what surprise the peoplewould be under, and how far their own power extended, theyundertook to dispose of the priesthood by casting lots for it,whereas, as we have said already, it was to descend by suc­cession in a family. The pretence they made for this strangeattempt was an ancient practice, while they said that of oldit was determined by lot; but, in trutb, it was no better thanthe dissolution of an undeniable law, and a cunning contrivanceto seize upon the government, derived from those that pre­sumed to appoint governors as they themselves pleased. 8. Hereupon they sent for one of the pontifical tribes,which is called Eniachim,1 and cast lots which of it shouldbe the high-priest. By fortune the lot so fell as to demon­strate their iniquity after the plainest manner; for it fellupon one whose name was Phannias, the son of Samuel, ofthe village Aphtha. He was a man not only unworthy ofthe high-priesthood, but that did not well know what thehigh-priesthood was, such a mere rustic was he; yet did theyhale this man, without his own consent, out of the country,as if they were acting a play upon the stage, and adornedhim with a counterfeit face : they also put upon him the sacredgarments, and upon every occasion instructed him what hewas to do. This horrid piece of wickedness was sport andpastime with them, but occasioned the other priests, who, ata distance, saw their law made a jest of, to shed tears, andsorely to lament the dissolution of such a sacred dignity. 9. And now the people could no longer bear the insolenceof this procedure, but did all together run zealously in orderto overthrow that tyranny: and, indeed, they were Gorion 1 This tribe or course of the high-priests here called Eniakim, seems to thelearned Mr. Lowtb, one well versed in Josephus, to be that 1 Chron. xxiv.12, the course of Jakim, where some copies have the course of Eliakim; and Ithink this to be by no means an improbable conjecture.