OCR Output an. 1057.] 265 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the king had commanded that he should beadmitted, he came in, and asked him, whetherhe had ordained Adonijah to be king,* anddelivered the government to him or not? forthat he had made a splendid supper, and in­vited all his sons, except Solomon; as alsothat he had invited Joab, the captain of thehost, and Abiathar the high-priest, who werefeasting with applauses, and many joyfulsounds of instruments, and wishing that thekingdom might last for ever. "But," saidNathan, "he hath not invited me, nor Zadokthe high-priest, nor Benaiah the captain ofthe guards. And it is but fit that all shouldknow whether this be done by thy approba­tion or not." When Nathan had said thus,the king commanded that they should callBathsheba to him; for she had gone out ofthe room when the prophet came. And whenBathsheba was come, David said, "I swearby Almighty God, that thy son Solomon shallcertainly be king, as I formerly swore; andthat he shall sit upon my throne this veryday." So Bathsheba worshipped him, andwished him a long life: and the king sent forZadok the high-priest, and Benaiah the cap­tain of the guards; and when they were come,he ordered them to take with them Nathanthe prophet, and all the armed men about thepalace, and to set his son Solomon upon theking's mule; and so carry him out of the cityto the fountain called Gihon,f and to anointhim there with the holy oil, and to make himking. This he charged Zadok the high-priest, and Nathan the prophet to do; andcommanded them to follow Solomon throughthe midst of the city, and to sound the trutn- pets, and wish aloud, that "Solomon theking might sit upon the royal throne forever," that so all the people might know thathe was ordained king by his father. He alsogave Solomon a charge concerning his go­vernment, to rule the whole nation of the He­brews, and particularly the tribe of Judah,righteously. And when Benaiah had prayedto God to be favourable to Solomon, they setSolomon upon the mule4 and brought himout of the city to the fountain, and anointedhim with the oil: and brought him into thecity again, with acclamations and wishesthat his kingdom might continue a longtime. And when they had introduced himinto the king's house, they set him upon thethrone. Whereupon all the people betookthemselves to make merry, and to celebratea festival; dancing, and delighting themselveswith musical pipes, till both the earth andthe air echoed|| with the multitude of theinstruments of music. Now when Adonijah and his guests per­ceived this noise, they were in disorder; andJoab, the captain of the host, said he was notpleased with these echoes, and the sound ofthese trumpets. And when supper was set be­fore them, nobody tasted of it; but they wereall very thoughtful, what should be the mat­ter. Then Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, thehigh-priest, came running to them; and whenAdonijah saw the young man gladly, and saidto him, that he was a good messenger, he de­clared the whole matter about Solomon, andthe determination of king David. Hereuponboth Adonijah and all his guests rose hastilyfrom the feast, and every one fled to their * In 2 Sam. vii. 12. God had promised David by Na­than, that he would set upon his throne a son that shouldproceed from him, which plainly signified, that none ofhis sons already born were to be the person; and in1 Chron. xxii. 9, &c. he declared by the same prophet,that after his father, Solomon should reign, and build hima house. This Adonijah could not but know; and there­fore his setting himself against the decree of heaven madehis sin the greater. Patrick's Commentary. B. t Some commentators are of opinion, that Gihon wasthe same with the fountain of Siloam; but this is a grossmistake, since Gihon was manifestly to the west, andSiloam to the east of Jerusalem. There is little or nocertainty likewise in the notions of some Rabbins, whopretend that, in ancient times, kings were always anointedby the side of a fountain, by way of good omen, or thatthe perpetual running of the stream might be an emblem ofthe perpetuity of the king's reign. In the history of Saul,who was their first king, and of David, who was three times anointed, we find no mention made of any springor fountain. As these fountains however were places ofgreat concourse, (for there were not many in Jerusalem,)the chief reason, we may imagine, why David orderedSolomon to be anointed at one of these, was, that the thingmight be done as publicly, and in the presence of as manyspectators as possible. Patrick's Commentary. B. J All the rest of David's sons were wont to ride uponmules, when they went abroad, 2 Sam. xiii. 29. but Dnvidhad a mule peculiar to himself, and the mounting Solo­mon upon it was a sufficient declaration in his favour.For, as it was capital, (according to Maimonides,) to rideupon the king's mule, or sit on his throne, or handle hitsceptre without his order; so, on the contrary, to havethe honour to ride upon the king's horse, by his appoint­ment, was accounted the highest dignity among the Per­sians, as appears by the story of Mordecai in the book ofEsther. Calmet's Commentary. B. I I 1 Kings i. 40.