OCR Output 336 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. Hence afterwards they brought them out by twenties, andhaving formed two lines of soldiers, in all military habilements, facing one another, they compelled them to walk be*tween the lines, chained one to another, and receiving blowsand wounds as they passed along from those who formed thelines, and struck at pleasure so soon as they perceived the ob­jects of their hatred. They were followed by others who car­ried scourges, and lashed those forwards who moved not readi­ly along. Threescore persons had been brought forth and de­stroyed in this manner, before those who remained in the edi-*fice became sensible of their fate. For they had hitherto ima->gined, that those who fetched them out did it merely to shifttheir confinement. But when they learned the truth fromsome person or other whom they could not disbelieve, theycalled out aloud on the Athenians, and implored as a favourto be put to death by them. To stir from the place of theirconfinement they now absolutely refused, and averred, that tothe utmost of their power they would hinder every body fromcoming into them. But the Corcyreans had not the least in­clination to force an entrance by the doors. They mountedup on the top of the edifice, and tearing off the roof, flung thetiles and shot arrows down upon them. The others protectedthemselves to the best of their power; and many of them wereemployed in making away with themselves by cramming thearrows shot from above down their own throats. Others,tearing away the cordage from the beds which happened to bewithin, or twisting such ropes as they could from shreds oftheir own garments, so strangled themselves to death. Nomethod was omitted during the greatest part of the night (fornight dropt down upon this scene of horror) till, either dis­patched by their own contrivance, or shot to death by thoseabove, their destruction was completely finished. So soon asit was day, the Corcyreans, having thrown their bodies onheaps into carriages, removed them out of the city. But theirwives, so many as had been taken prisoners in company withtheir husbands, they adjudged to slavery for life.