OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 287 valry to reconnoitre the adjacent grounds. For sometime neither party descried the other. Afterwards thedust being raised in thicker clouds by the moving of somany men and horses, gave notice of approaching ene­mies: both detachments halted, and made ready forbattle. Scipio placed his spearmen and Gallic ca­valry in front, keeping the Romans and the body ofallies which accompanied him as a reserve. Hannibaldrew the bridled cavalry into the centfe, strengtheninghis wings with the Numidians. The shout was scarcelyraised before the spearmen fled to the second line; thenthe battle was maintained by the cavalry, for a con­siderable time with doubtful success; but afterwards,in consequence of the confusion caused among thehorses by the footmen being intermixed with them,many of the riders fell from their seats, and others, onseeing their friends surrounded and distressed, dis­mounted to assist them; so that the fight was now car­ried on mostly on foot, until the Numidians, posted onthe wings, taking a small compass, showed»themselveson the rear. This terrified and dismayed the Romans,whose fears were augmented by a wound received bythe consul, who was rescued from farther danger bythe speedy intervention of his son, just arrived at theage of maturity. This is the same youth who is after­wards to enjoy the renown of terminating this war, andto receive the title of Africanus, on account of his glo­rious victory over Hannibal and the Carthaginians.However, very few fled precipitately, except the spear­men, on whom the Numidians made the first charge.The rest formed a compact body of cavalry; who,taking the consul into their centre, and covering him,not only with their arms, but with their bodies, withoutany disorder or precipitation in their retreat, broughthim back to the camp. Coelius attributes the honor ofsaving the consul to a slave, by nation a Ligurian: butI rather wish the account to be true which gives it tohis son ; and so the fact is represented by most authors,and generally believed.