OCR Output 222 LIVY. writer, nor indeed could he in so short a time havefinished the building of it,) the son, in the office ofconsul, dedicated and adorned with military spoils.And of these, so great was the abundance, that notonly that temple and the forum were decorated withthem, but quantities were also distributed among theallies and colonies in the neighborhood to serve as or­naments to their temples and public places. Immedi­ately after his triumph he led his army into winterquarters in the territory of Vescia, that country beingexposed to the inroads of the Samnites. Meanwhile,in Etruria, the consul Carvilius first laid siege to Troi-lium, when four hundred and seventy of the richestinhabitants, offering a large sum of money for permis­sion to leave the place, he suffered them to depart:the town with the remaining multitude he took bystorm. He afterwards reduced by force five fortsstrongly situated, wherein were slain two thousandfour hundred of the enemy, and not quite two thou­sand made prisoners. To the Faliscians, who suedfor peace, he granted a truce for a year, on conditionof their furnishing a hundred thousand asses in weight,1and a year's pay for his army. This business com­pleted, he returned home to a triumph, which, thoughit was less illustrious than that of his colleague, in re­spect of his share in the defeat of the Samnites, wasyet raised to an equality with it, the whole honor ofthe campaign in Etruria belonging solely to him. Hecarried into the treasury three hundred and ninetythousand asses in weight.2 Out of the remainder ofthe money accruing to the public from the spoils hecontracted for the building of a temple to Fors Fortu-na, near to that dedicated to the same goddess by kingServius Tullius; and gave to the soldiers, out of thespoil, one hundred and two asses3 each, and doublethat sum to the centurions and horsemen : this dona­tive was received the more gratefully on account ofthe parsimony of his colleague. 1 3221.18». id. s 1259/. 7s. 6d. » 6$. Td.