OCR Output 408 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. tion towers*, galleries-l-, mantaletsj, and all the otherengines used in sieges? After we have bestowed somuch labour, and brought our works to such perfec­tion; say, do you think it would be prudent to aban­don them now, that we may go the same round ofsweat and labour to replace them at the opening ofthe summer campaign? Is it not much more easy todefend the works already constructed, to push on thesiege with vigour and firmness, till we accomplish. ourdesigns? It cannot be a matter of long standing, ifwe go on without interruption, and do not ourselvesfrustrate our hopes, by our own delays and remissness.I only speak of the labour we must undergo, and thetime we must lose. But this is not all. By protractingthe war, we expose ourselves to a much a greater dar*-ger. Do we sit down without the least concern, whilstthe states of Etruria meet so frequently, to deliberateon sending aid to Veii? As matters now stand, theyare disgusted with the Vejentes, they hate them, andwill not interpose for their relief. Nay, for them, wemay take" Veii when we can; but, who can.divine,"ifwe intermit our operations, that they will be of thesame mind some time hence? Only give them a littlerespite, and you will see how their embassies will bereiterated and redoubled. The circumstance of esta­blishing monarchy at Veii, which alone gives umbrageto the Etrurians, may change in an instant, either bythe general consent of the state, to reinstate them intofavour with the Etrurians, or by a voluntary resigna­tion in the king himself, who may not be willing thathis sovereignty should interfere with the good of hiscountry. Only consider seriously, the train "of evils * They were made of wood, to move on four, or more wheels,placed within them so as not to be seen. They consisted of ten ormore stories, as occasion required, and ctosety floored. They con­tained the cranes, scaling-ladders, t*'c. and brought them up tothe walls. •)• These were made of rafters, and were eight feet high, sevenbroad, and sixteen tong. They were roofed with ptanks,inii hur­dles ; their sides were wickered v. hii twigs, and covered with rawbides. They moved on secret wheels, like the towers. t They moved also on secret wheels, but theirroofs and frontswere eloped; they were used io digging or fitling up trenches, le­vetting and bringing up the battering rams to the walls.