OCR Output B.V. THE PELO'PONNESIAN WAti. tj| It so fell out indeed, immediately after the battle ofAmphipolis and the return of Ramphias from Thessaiy,that neither of the parties meddled any longer with thioperations of war, but were more inclined to a peace.The motives on the Athenian side were these;—Theyhad received a terrible blow at Delium, and a secondlately at Amphipolis: Hence they no longer entertain­ed that assured considence of their own strength, whichhad formerly occasioned them to reject all accOmmoda-1tions, as they imagined, in their then career of success,they should soon give law to their enemies. Now alsothey were under apprehensions of their dependents, lest,buoyed up by the late misfortunes of Athens, theymight the sooner be induced to revolt. And theyheartily repented now, that they had neglected the fineopportunity, which their success at Pylus gave them, ofbringing the dispute to a happy determination. On the other hand, the Lacedæmonians acted onthese motives: — They found themselves strangely mis­taken in the events of war. , At its commencement-,they imagined, that, in the space of a few years, theyshould intirely have demolished the power of the Athe­nians, by laying their territory waste; but they had suf­fered a terrible calamity in the affair of Sphacteria, suchas never before had been the lot of Sparta. Devasta­tions now were extended over all their country, fromPylus and Cythera. Their Helots had also in numbersdeserted to the foe; and they lived in constant expec­tation that those, who yet persevered in their allegiance,gained by the solicitations of those who were fled,might, in the present low ebb of Sparta, attempt tosubvert their constitution, as had formerly been thecase. It happened farther, that the thirty years trucewith the Argives was on the point of expiring; and theArgiv.es were unwilling to renew it, unless the Cynuriawas previously restored. They judged it therefore aplain impossibility, to make head, at the fame time, a-gainst both Argives and Athenians. They had alia a suspicion