OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION, 369 of ignoble birth out of the eastern parts, and had boldnessenough to make an expedition into our country, and withease subdued it by force, yet without our hazarding a battlewith them. So when they had gotten those that governed usunder their power, they afterwards burnt down our cities, anddemolished the temples of the gods, and used all the inhabit­ants after a most barbarous manner; nay, some they slew,and led their children and their wives into slavery. Atlength they made one of themselves king, whose name wasSolatis; he also lived at Memphis, and made both the upperand lower regions pay tribute, and left garrisons in placesthat were the most proper for them. He chiefly aimed tosecure the eastern parts, as foreseeing that the Assyrians,who had then the greatest power, would be desirous of thatkingdom, and invade them ; and as he found in the Saitc No-mos [Seth-roite,] a city very proper for his purpose, andwhich lay upon the Bubastic channel, but with regard to acertain theologic notion was called Avaris: this he rebuilt,and made very strong by the walls he built about it, and bya most numerous garrison of two hundred and forty thousandarmed men which he put into it to keep it. Thither Salatiscame in summer time, partly to gather his corn and pay hissoldiers their wages, and partly to exercise his armed men,and thereby to terrify foreigners. When this man hadreigned thirteen years, after him reigned another, whose namewas Beoa, for forty-four years; after him reigned another,called ApacJinas, thirty-six years and seven months ; after himApophis reigned sixty-one years, and then Janias fifty yearsand one month; after all these reigned Assis forty-nine yearsand two months. And these six were the first rulers amongthem, who were all along making war with the Egyptians,and were very desirous gradually to destroy them to the veryroots. This whole nation was styled Ilycsos, that is, shep­herd-kings ; fur the first syllable IIYC, according to the sacreddialect, denotes a king, as is SOS a shepherd ; but this accord­ing to the ordinary dialect; and of these is compounded IIyc-sos, but some say that these people were Arabians." Now,in another copy it is said, that this word does not denote