OCR Output 72 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. tranquillity it will be short-sighted, selfish, and negligent;the germs of both results are essentially involved in itshereditary and collegiate character. The morbid matterhad been long in existence, but it needed the sun of pros­perity to develop it. There was a profound meaning inthe question of Cato, "What was to become of Rome, whenshe should no longer have any state to fear p" That pointhad now been reached. Every neighbour whom she mighthave feared was politically annihilated; and of the men, whohad been reared under the old order of things in the severeschool of the Hannibalic war, and whose words still soundedas echoes of that mighty epoch so long as they survived,death called one after another away, till at length the voiceof the last of them, the veteran Cato, ceased to be heard inthe senate-house and in the Forum. A younger generationcame to the helm, and their policy was a sorry answer to thatquestion of the veteran patriot. We have already spoken ofthe shape which the government of the subjects and theexternal policy of Rome assumed in their hands. In in­ternal affairs they were, if possible, still more disposed tolet the ship drive before the wind: if we understand by in-ternal government more than the transaction of current busi­ness, there was at this period no government in Bome at all.The single leading thought of the governing corporationwas the maintenance and, if possible, the increase of theirusurped privileges. It was not the state that had a title toget the right and the best man for its supreme magistracy;but every member of the coterie had an inborn title to thehighest office of the state—a title not to be prejudiced bythe unfair rivalry of his peers or by the encroachments ofthe excluded. Accordingly the clique proposed to itselfas its most important political aim, the restriction of re­election to the consulship and the exclusion of " new men;"and in fact it succeeded in obtaining the legal prohibition of165. the former about 603,* and contented itself with a govern- * In 537 the law restricting re-election to the consulship was suspendeddaring the continuance of the war in Italy, that is, down to 551 (ii. 324;Liv. xxvii. 6). But after the death of Marcellus in 546 re-elections to theconsulship, if we do not include the abdicating consuls of 592, only occurredin the years 547, 554, 560, 579, 585, 586, 591, 596, 599, 602; conse­quently not oftener in those fifty-six years than, for instance, in the ten years401-410. Only one of these, and that the very last, took place in violationof the ten years' interval (i. 321); and beyond doubt the singular election ofMarcus Marcellus who was consul in 588 and 599 to a third consulship in