OCR Output 32 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. CHAP. IX. How the people raised a sedition against jArcielaus, and l>ow Jjesailed to Home, J I. AT this time also it was, that some of the Jews got to--^*- gather, out of a desire of innovation. They lamentedMatthias, and those that were slain with him by Herod, who hadnot any respect paid them by a funeral mourning, out of the fearmen were in of that man ; they were those who had been con­demned for pulling down the golden eagle. The people made agreat clamour and lamentation hereupon, and cast but some re­proaches against the king also, as if that tended to alleviate themiseries of the deceased. The people assembled together, anddesired of Archelaus, that, iu way of revenge on their account,he would inflict punishment on those who had been honoured byHerod ; and that, in the first and principal place, he would de­prive that high-priest whom Herod had made, and would chooseone more agreeable to the law, and of greater purity, to officiateas high-priest. This was granted by Archelaus, although hewas mightily offended at their importunity, because he proposedto himself to go to Rome immediately, to look after Caesar'sdetermination about him. However, he sent the general of hisforces to use persuasions, and to tell them that the death whichwas inflicted on their friends, was according to the law ; and torepresent to them, that their petitions about these things werecarried to a great height of injury to him ; that the time wasnot now proper for such petitions, but required their unanimityuntil such time as he should be established in the government bythe consent of Caesar, antf should then be come back to them ;for that he would then consult with them in common concern­ing the purport of their petitions, but that they ought at pre­sent to be quiet, lest they should seem seditious persons. 2. So when the king had suggested these things, and instruct­ed his general in what he was to say, he sent him away to thepeople ; but they made a clamour, and would not give him leaveto speak, and put him in danger of his life, and as many moreas were desirous to venture upon saying openly any thing whichmight reduce them to a sober mind, and prevent their going onin their-present courses ; because they had more concern to haveall their own wills performed, than to yield obedience to theirgovernors ; thinking it to be a thing insufferable, that, whileHercd was alive, they should lose those that were the most dearto them, and that when he was dead, they could not get the ac­tors to be punished. So they went on with their designs after a violent