OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 91 sioners of a definite sum annually from the public chest forthe purchase of Italian lands for distribution. The new•features in the Sempronian agrarian law, as compared withthe Licinio-Sextian, were, first, the clause in favour of thehereditary possessors; secondly, the leasehold and inalien­able tenure proposed for the new allotments; thirdly andespecially, the permanent executive, the absence of whichunder the older law had been the chief reason why it hadremained virtually without practical application. War was thus declared against the great landholders,who now, as three centuries ago, found substantially theirorgan in the senate; and once more, after a long interval, asingle magistrate stood forth in earnest opposition to thearistocratic government. It took up the conflict in themode sanctioned by use and wont for such cases, viz. para­lyzing the extravagant action of magistrates by means oftheir colleagues (i. 322). A colleague of Gracchus, MarcusOctavius, a resolute man who was seriously persuaded of theobjectionable character of the proposed domain law, inter­posed his veto when it was about to be put to the vote; astep, the constitutional effect of which was to set aside theproposal. Gracchus then in his turn suspended the busi­ness of the state and the administration of justice, andplaced his seal on the public chest. The government ac­quiesced—it was inconvenient, but the year would draw to anend. Gracchus in perplexity brought his law to the vote asecond time. Octavius of course repeated his veto; and tothe urgent entreaty of his colleague and former friend, thathe would not obstruct the salvation of Italy, he might replythat on that very question, as to how Italy could be saved,opinions differed, but that his constitutional right to use hisveto against the proposal of his colleague was beyond doubt.The senate now made an attempt to open up to Gracchus.a tolerable means of retreat; two cqnsulars challenged himto discuss the matter further in the senate house, and thetribune entered into the scheme with zeal. He sought toconstrue this proposal as implying that the senate had con­ceded the principle of distributing the domainland; butneither was this implied in it, nor was the senate at all dis­posed to yield in the matter; the discussions ended withoutany result. Constitutional means were exhausted. Inearlier times under such circumstances men were not indis­posed to let the proposal made go to sleep for the moment,