OCR Output Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 413 selves into the villages, and collected the tributes, and soongottogether forty talents, which was the sum that was deficient.And thus did Agrippa then put a stop to that war which wasthreatened. Moreover,he attempted to persuade the multitudeto obey Florus, until Caesar should send one to succeed him;'but they were hereby more provoked, and cast reproaches uponthe king, and got him excluded out of the city; nay, some ofthe seditious had the impudence to throw stones at him. Sowhen the king saw that the violence of those that were for in­novations was not to be restrained, and being very angry atthe contumelies he had received, he sent their rulers, togetherwith their men of power, to Florus, to Cesarea, that he mightappoint whom he thought fit to collect the tribute in the coun­try, while he retired into his own kingdom. 2. And at this time it was that some of those that principally-excited the people to go to war, made an assault upon a certainfortress called Massada. They took it by treachery, and slewthe Romans that were there, and put others of their own partyto keep it. At the same time Eleazar, the son of Ananias thehigh-priest, a very bold youth, who was at that time governorof the temple, persuaded those that officiated in the divine ser­vice to receive no gift or sacrifice for any foreigner. And thiswas the true beginning of our war with the Romans; for theyrejected the sacrifice of Caesar on this account: and when manyof the high-priests and principal men besought them not toomit the sacrifice, which it was customary for them to offerfor their princes, they would not be prevailed upon. Theserelied much upon their multitude, for the most flourishingpart of the innovators assisted them; but they had the chief re­gard to Eleazar, the governor of the temple. 3. Hereupon the men of power got together, and conferredwith the high-priests, as did also the principal of the Pharisees;and thinking all was at stake, and that their calamities were be­coming incurable, took counsel what was to be done. Accord­ingly they determined to try what they could do with the sedi­tious by words, and assembled the people before the brazen-gate, which was that gate of the inner temple [court of thepriests] which looked toward the sun rising. And, in the firstplace, they shewed the great indignation they had at this attemptfor a revolt, and for their bringing so great a war upon theircountry: after which they confuted their pretence as unjusti­fiable, and told them, That " their forefathers had adorned their" temple in great part with donations bestowed on them by fo-" rejgners, and had always received what had been presented tof'' tjiem frpm foreign Rations; and (hat they had been so far from (l " rejecting