OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 61 of nationality and religion among his subjects placed themost material obstacles in the way of the government,yet the plan of introducing throughout his dominionsHellenico-Roman manners and Hellenico-Roman worshipand of equalizing the various peoples in a political as wellas a religious point of view was under any circumstancesan absurdity; and all the more so from the fact, that thiscaricatured Joseph II. was personally far from equal to sogigantic an enterprise, and introduced his reforms in thevery worst way by plundering temples on the greatest scalennd insanely persecuting heretics. One consequence of this policy was, that the inhabit- The J. vnants of the province next to the Egyptian frontier, theJews, a people formerly submissive even to humility andextremely active and industrious, were driven by systematicreligious persecution to open revolt (about 587). The iermatter came to the senate; and, as it was just at that timewith good reason indignant at Demetrius Soter and appre­hensive of a combination between the Attalids and Seleucids,while the establishment of a power intermediate betweenSyria and Egypt was at any rate for the interest of Rome, itmade no difficulty in at once recognizing the freedom andautonomy of the insurgent nation (about 593). Nothing, igjhowever, was done by Rome for the Jews except what couldbe done without personal exertion: in spite of the clause ofthe treaty concluded between the Romans and the Jewswhich promised Roman aid to the latter in the event oftheir being attacked, and in spite of the injunction addressedto the kings of Syria and Egypt not to march their troopsthrough Judaea, it was of course entirely left to the Jewsthemselves to hold their ground against the Syrian kings.The brave and prudent conduct of the insurrection by theheroic house of the Maccabees and the internal dissension inthe Syrian empire did more for them than the letters of theirpowerful allies; during the strife between the Syrian kingsTrypho and Demetrius Nicator autonomy and exemptionfrom tribute were formally accorded to the Jews (612); and 142soon afterwards the head of the Maccabaean house, Simonson of Mattathias, was even formally acknowledged by thenation as well as by the great king of Syria as high priestand prince of Israel (615).* * From him proceed the coins with the inscription " Shekel of Israel," andthe date of the " holy Jerusalem." or the " deliverance of Sion." The similar