OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. nian or Ulpian, which the reformer had proscribed, weredeemed unworthy of future notice; the' twelve tablesand praetorian edict insensibly vanished, and the monu^ments of ancient Rome were neglected or destroyed bythe envy and ignorance of the Greeks. Even the Pan­dects themselves have escaped with difficulty and dangerfrom the common shipwreck, and criticism has pronoun-i­ced, that all the editions and manuscripts of the west are de­rived from one Original." It was transcribed at Constan­tinople the beginning of the seventh century,' was succes­sively transported by the accidents of war and commerceto Amalphi,' Pisa," and Florence," and is now depositedas a sacred relic7 in the ancient palace of the republic* of the civil law, Mucins, Brutus, and Manillas, extant volumina, scripta Manflii mo-suumenta; that of some old republican lawyers, haec versantar eorma scripta intermanus hominum. Eight of the Augustan sages were reduced to a compendium : ofCascellius, scripta not extaot sed unus liber, &c.: of Trehatius, minus frequentantur:of Tubero, libri parnm grati sunt. Many quotations in the Pandects are derived frombooks which Tribonian never saw; and in the long period from the seventh to thethirteenth oentury of Rome, the apparent reading of the moderns successively dependson the knowledge and veracity of their predecessors. r All, in several instances, repeat the errors of the scribe and the transpositions of:Some leaves in the Florentine pandects. This faot, if it be true, is decisive. Yetthe Pandects are quoted by Ivo of Chartres (who died in 1117); by Theobald,archhishop of Canterbury, and by Vacarius, our first professor, in the year 1140. (Sel-den ad Fletam, c. 7. tom. 2. p. 1030—1085.) Have our British JV1SS. of the Pan­dects been collated? * See the description of this original in B re nek roan, (Hist. Pandect. Florent. lib.jt. c. 2, 3; p. 4—17. and lib. 2.) ' Politian, an enthusiast, revered it as the authentipstandard of Justinian himself; (p. 407, 408.) hat this paradox is refuted by the abbre­viations of the Florentine MS. (lib. 2. c. 3. p. 117—130.) It is composed of twoquarto volumes with large margins, on a thin parchment, and the Latin characters be­tray the hand of a Greek scribe. t Brenckman, at the end of his history, has inserted two dissertations on the re­public of Amaiphi, and the Ptsan war in the year 1185, &o. u TJie discovery of the pandects at Amalphi <(A, D. 13.37) is 6rst noticed (in1501) by Ludovicus Bologninus, (Brenckman, lib. 1. c. 11. p. 73,74. lib. 4. c. 2. p.417—425.) on the faith ofaPis&n chronicle, j(p. 409, 410.) without a name or a date.The whole story, though, unknown to the twelth century, embellished by ignorantages, and suspected by rigid criticism, is not, however, destitute of much internalprohahility, (lib. 1# c. 4-i—8.. p. J7—50.) Tne kiber Pandectaram of Pisa was un­doubtedly consulted in the fourteeuth century by the great BarLolns. (p. 406, 407.See lib. J. c. 9. p. 50—02.) x Pisa was taken by the Florentines in the year 1406; and in 1411 the Pandectswere transported to the capital. These events are authentic and famous. y They were now bound in purple, deposited in a rich casket, and shewn to cWrioustravellers by the monks and magistrates hareheaded, and with lighted tapers. (Brenck­man, lib. 1. c. 10—12. p. 62—93.) z After the collations of Politian, Bologninus, and Antoninus Augustinns, and thesplendid edition of the Pandects by Taorellns (in 1551), Heury Brenckman, a Dutch­man, undertook a pilgrimage to Florence, where he employed several years in tfiestudy of a single manuscript. His Historia Pandectarum Florentinorum, (TJtrecnt,,1722, in quarto,) though a monument of industry, is a small portion of his originaldesign. ^ , •" . t! VOL. V. 2 A