OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 249 1 tribes of the Peucini, the Borani, the Carpi, &c. derived its originfrom the Germans. With better authority, a Sarmatian extractionmay be assigned to the Venedi, who rendered themselves so famousin the middle ages l6. But the confusion of blood and manners on Dislinafcmof Germans and that doubtful frontier, often perplexed the most accurate ob- Sarmatians.servers *7. As the Goths advanced nearer the Euxine sea, theyencountered a purer race of Sarmatians, the Jazyges, the Alani,and the Roxolani; and they were probably the first Germans whosaw the mouths of the Borysthenes, and of the Tanais. If weinquire into the characteristic marks of the people of Germany andof Sarmatia, we shall discover that those two great portions of humankind were principally distinguished by fixed huts or moveabletents, by a close dress, or flowing garments, by the marriage ofone or of several wives, by a military force, consisting, for the mostpart, either of infantry or of cavalry; and above all by the use ofthe Teutonic, or of the Sclavonian language; the last of which hasbeen diffused by conquest, from the confines of Italy to the neigh­bourhood of Japan. The Goths were now in possession of the Ukraine, a country of Description ofconsiderable extent and uncommon fertility, intersected with navi- tbe kraine*gable rivers, which, from either side, discharge themselves into theBorysthenes; and interspersed with large and lofty forests ofoaks. The plenty of game and fish, the innumerable bee-hives,deposited in the hollow of old trees, and in the cavities of rocks, andforming, even in that rude age, a valuable branch of commerce,the size of the cattle, the temperature of the air, the aptness of thesoil for every species of grain, and the luxuriancy of the vegetation,all displayed the liberality of Nature, and tempted the industry ofman l8. But the Goths withstood all these temptations, and stilladhered to a life of idleness, of poverty, and of rapine. The Scythian hords, which, towards the east, bordered on the new TheGotlusettlements of the Goths, presented nothing to their arms, except the roœm p'o- Vol. I. K k doubtful viDCes'