OCR Output DISSERTATION II. ,501 Jewish prophet Micah1 implies, when he inquires, "Where­with shall I come before the Lord, and bow myself beforethe High God ? Shall I come before him with burnt-offerings,with calves of a year old ? "Will the Lord be pleased withthousands of rams, with ten thousands of fakids of the goats?Shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit ofmy body for the sin of my soul ?" No, certainly, " for hehath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth theLord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy,and to humble thyself, to walk with thy God ?" It is true, God did here try the faith and obedience ofAbraham to himself, whether they were as strong as the Pa­gans exhibited to their demons or idols; yet did ho withaltake effectual care, and that by a miraculous interpositionalso, to prevent the execution, and provided himself a ramas a vicarious substitute, to supply the place of Isaac imme­diately. "2 And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham,and said, Abraham, Abraham; and he said, Here am I; andhe said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thouany thing unto him ; for now I know that thou fearest God,seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, fromme. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and be­hold a ram caught in a thicket by his horns; and Abrahamwent and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offer­ing in the stead of his son." Thus though Jeptha3 has bymany been thought to have vowed to offer up his only daugh­ter and child for a sacrifice, and that as bound on him, uponsupposition of his vow, by a divine law, Lev. xxvii. 28, 29,of which opinion I was once myself; yet upon more matureconsideration I have, for some time, thought this to be a mis­take, and that his vow extended only to her being devoted tcserve God at the tabernacle, or elsewhere, in a state of per­petual virginity; and that neither that law did enjoin anyhuman sacrifices, nor do we meet with any example of itsexecution in this sense afterwards. Philo never mentionsany such law, no more than Josephus: and when Josephus 1 Micah, Ti. 6-8. ' Gen. xxii. 11-13. * Judges, xi. 3(5-39.