OCR Output an. 1064.] 253 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Then Joab sounded a retreat, and recalledhis soldiers from pursuing the enemy's army,in order to spare their countrymen.* Now Absalom had erected for himself amarble pillar, in the king's dale, two furlongsdistant from Jerusalem, which he named Ab­salom's Hand; saying, that if his childrenwere killed, his name would remain by thatpillar. For he had three sons, and onedaughter, named Tamar, as we said before,who when she was married to David's grand­son, Rehoboam, bare a son,f Abijah by name,who succeeded his father in the kingdom.But of these we will speak in a part of ourhistory which will be more proper. Butafter the death of Absalom, they every onereturned home. Now Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, the high-priest, went to Joab, and desired he wouldpermit him to go and tell David of this vic­tory; and to carry him the good news thatGod had afforded his assistance and his pro­vidence to him. However he did not grantthis request; but said to him, "Wilt thou,that hast always been the messenger of goodnews, now go and acquaint the king that hisson is dead?" so he desired him to desist.He then called Cushi and committed thebusiness to him, that he should tell the kingwhat he had seen. But when Ahimaaz againdesired to let him go as a messenger, and as­sured him that he would only relate whatconcerned the victory, but not concerningthe death of Absalom, he gave him leave togo to David. Now he took a nearer roadthan the former did: for nobody knew it buthimself; and he came before Cushi. Now asDavid was sitting between the gates,J and waiting to see when somebody would cometo him from the battle; one of the watchmensaw Ahimaaz running, and before he coulddiscern who he was, he told David, that hesaw somebody coming to him, who said, hewas a good messenger. A little while afterhe informed him that another messenger fol­lowed him. Whereupon the king said thathe was also a good messenger. But whenthe watchman saw Ahimaaz, and that he wasalready very near, he gave the king noticethat it was the son of Zadok, the high-priest,who came running. So David was very glad,and said, he was a messenger of good tidings,and brought him such news from the battleas he desired to hear. While the king was saying thus, Ahimaazappeared, and worshipped the king. Andwhen the king inquired about the battle,he said, he brought him the good news ofvictory and dominion. And when he hadinquired what he had to say concerninghis son, he said, that he came away on thesudden, as soon as the enemy was defeated;but that he heard a great noise of those thatpursued Absalom, and that he could learn nomore, because of the haste he made whenJoab sent him to inform him of the victory.But when Cushi was come, and had wor­shipped him, and informed him of the victory,he asked him about his son: who replied,"May the like misfortune befall thine ene­mies, as hath befallen Absalom." That worddid not permit either himself or his soldiersto rejoice for the victory, though it was verygreat; but David went up to the highest partof the ||city, and wept for his son and beathis breast, tearing the hair off his head, and out to out. The inside of this chamber is all plain, butthe outside is adorned with some pilasters of the samekind of stone. The upper part or covering, is made inthe form of a conic pyramid, pretty high and large, with akind of flower-pot on its top. The pyramid is composedof several stones, but the monument itself is square, andall cut out of one block. In the time of Josephus, themonument, which was said to be Absalom's, was nothingmore than one marble pillar, widely different from what,at present, goes under his name; and which therefore,must be accounted a more modern building. Le Gere'sand Patrick's Commentaries, and Calmet's Dictionary,under the word Absalom. B. * Commentators have observed the justice of God, inbringing Absalom to a condign punishment, and such akind of death, as was ordained by the law for offences likeunto his. For whereas, in the first place, he was hanged as it were, this was declared by the law to be an accurseddeath, Deut. xxi. 23. and was afterwards, in some mea­sure, stoned; this was the particular kind of death thatthe law prescribed for a stubborn and rebellious son,Deut. xxi. B. t 2 Chron. xi. 20. J Those that take a view of my description of the gatesof the temple, will not be surprised at this account ofDavid's throne, both here, and 2 Sam. xviii. 24. that itwas between two gates, or portals. Gates being in cities,as well as at the temple, large open places, with a portalat the entrance, and another at the exit: between whichjudicial causes were heard, and public consultations held;as it is well known from several places of Scripture,2 Chron. xxxi. 2. Psal. ix. 14. exxvii. 5. Prov. i. 2J.viii. 3, 34. xxxii. 23. and often elsewhere. II Since David was now in Mahanaim, and in the open 3B2