OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 415 fact, that the three-quarter denarius, which by the arrange­ments of the Roman government was coined both at Mas-silia and in Ulyria, and which had been under the nameof Victoriatus received into the Roman monetary system(ii. 38), was about the middle of the seventh century setaside in the latter; the effect of which necessarily was, thatthe Massiliot and Illyrian currency was driven out of UpperItaly and only remained in circulation, over and above itanative field, perhaps in the regions of the Alps and theDanube. Such progress had thus been made already inthis epoch, that the standard of the denarius exclusively pre­vailed in the whole western division of the Roman state;for Italy, Sicily—of w hich it is as respects the beginning ofthe nest period expressly attested, that no other silvermoney .circulated there but the denarius—Sardinia, Africa,used exclusively Roman silver money, and the provincialsilver still current in Spain as well as the silver money ofthe Massiliots and Illyrians were at least struck after thestandard of the denarius. It was different in the East. Currency ofThere, where the number of the states coining money from tiie East-olden times and the quantity of native coin in circu­lation were very considerable, the denarius did not make itsway into wider acceptance, although it was perhaps declareda legal tender. There either the previous monetary standardcontinued in use, as in Macedonia for instance, which stillas a province—although partially adding the names of theRoman magistrates to that of the country—struck its Attictetradrachmce and certainly employed in substance no othermoney; or a peculiar money-standard corresponding to cir­cumstances was introduced under Roman authority, as onthe institution of the province of Asia, when a new stater,the cistophorus as it was called, was prescribed by the Romangovernment and was thenceforth struck by the district-capi­tals there under Roman superintendence. This essentialdiversity between the Occidental and Oriental systems ofcurrency came to be of the greatest historical importance: theRomanizing of the subject lands found one of its mightiestlevers in the adoption of Roman money, and it was.notthrough mere accident that what we have designated at thisepoch as the field of the denarius became afterwards theLatin, while the field of the drachma became afterwards theGreek, division of the empire. Still at the present day theformer field substantially represents the aggregate of Ro-