OCR Output 92 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 769. rator. Rome had no other enemies. The laurelcrown must be gained in that quarter of the world.Germanicus saw through these pretences. The object,he knew, was to stop him in the full career of fame:with regret he resigned the command, and returnedto Rome. XXVII. About this time, Libo Drusus, descendedfrom the Scribonian family, was accused of a conspi­racy against the state. The history of this transactionin all its stages, its rise, its progress, and its final issue,shall be here laid open. The detail will not be unin­teresting; since we are now arrived at that blackperiod, which engendered that race of men, who, fora series of years, were the scourge and pest of so­ciety. Libo owed his ruin to his intimacy with Fir-mius Catus, a member of the senate. Catus saw inhis friend, besides the impetuosity of youth, a cast ofmind susceptible of vain illusions and superstitiouscredulity. He saw that the judicial astrology of theChaldseans, the mysteries of the Magi, and the inter­preters of dneams, would be sure to make their im­pression on a wild and distempered imagination. Insuch a mind the flame of ambition might be easilykindled. With that intent, he urged the dignity ofLibo's ancestors: Pompey was his great grand-father; -Scribonia, once the wife of Augustus, was his aunt;the two young Csesars were his relations; and hishouse was crowded with images, that displayed anillustrious line of ancestors. Havmg thus inflamedhis pride, he contrived to engage the young man in acourse of luxury, and, by consequence, to involvehim in a load of debt. He watched him closely in thehour of wild profusion, and in the scenes of distressthat followed; affecting with tender regard to be hisconstant companion, yet lying in wait for evidence;and playing the part of a friend, to be at last a per­nicious enemy. XXVIII. Having procured a competent number ofwitnesses, and among them such of the slaves as knewtheir master's course of life, Catus demanded an au­dience of the emperor. By the means of FlaccusVescularious, a Roman knight, much in the conn­