OCR Output 230 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. \ soners were punished according to their quality, as free­men or slaves. The Tu.-culans had the public thanks.The capitoi was cleansed and purified, and the peopleare said to have cast farthings into the consul's house,that he might be buried with the greater pomp. CHAP. XIX. The Tribunes over-ruled, by the noble efforts of Cinrinnattu. J. HIS affair was no sooner happily terminated, thanthe tribunes became importunate with the senators, toperform the promise made them by P. Valerius. Theypressed Claudius, to deliver the manes of his colleagues,from the imputation of treachery, by suffering them,without interruption, to go on in the affair of the law.Claudius told them that the question was inadmissible,till once they had given him a colleague. They con­tinued to wrangle upon this point, till the Comitia wereheld for the election of a new consul. In the month ofDecember, L. Quinctius Cincinnatus, Cseso's father, ow­ing to the indefatigable application of the father? , wasap-pointed to the consular fasces. This choice was a thunder-stroke to the people, asthey were now under the government of a magistrate ofgreat abilities, great credit in the senate, and higblv ex­asperated against them, and besides had three sons; inmagnanimity not inferior to Caeso, and in prudence farsurpassing him, when they had occasion to display it. He no sooner entered upon office, than in the speecheswhich he daily made from his tribunal, he applied him­self no less to rouse the senate from their lethargy, thanto check the licentiousness of the people. Addressinghimself to the senators, he told them, " That it wasowing to their constant facility, and wantof resolutionthat the same men were continued in the tribuneshipfrom year to year, men, who by their impeachmentsami toul language, lord it over the state, as a set ofbullies do over a brothel. That courage, constancy,in fine, every virtue, civil and military, ih.it adornyouth, was driven from Rome, with his son Caeso.Babblers, batchers of sedition, and divisions in the