OCR Output 304 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. withal, and the kindness he had always showed him, as also togratify Antony, who was very zealous for Herod. So a senatewas convocated; and Massala, first, and then Atratinus, introduc­ed Herod into it, and enlarged upon the benefits they had receiv­ed from his father, and put them in mind of the good-will hehad borne to the Romans. At the same time they accused An-tigonus, and declared him an enemy, not only because of his for­mer opposition to them, but that he had now overlooked the Ro­mans, and taken the government from the Parthians. Upon thisthe senate was irritated; and Antony informed them farther,that it was for their advantage in the Parthian war that Herodshould be king. This seemed good to all the senators; and sothey made a decree accordingly. 5. And this was the principal instance of Antony's affectionfor Herod, that he not only procured him a kingdom which hedid not expect, for he did not come with an intention to ask thekingdom (for himself, which he did not suppose the Romanswould grant him, who used to bestow it on some of the royal fa­mily, but intended to desire it for his wife's brother, who wasgrandson by his father to Aristobulus, and to Hyrcanus by hismother,) but that he procured it for him so suddenly that he ob­tained what he did not expect, and departed out of Italy in sofew days as seven in all. This young man [the grandson] He­rod afterward took care to have slain, as we shall show in its pro­per place. But when the senate was dissolved Antony and Cae­sar went out of the senate-house, with Herod between them, andwith the consuls and other magistrates before them, in order tooffer sacrifices, and to lay up their decrees in the capitol. An­tony also feasted Herod the first day of his reign. And thus didthis man receive the kingdom, having obtained it on the hundredand eighty-fourth Olympiad, when Caius Domitius Calvinus wasconsul the second time, and Caius Asinius Pollio [the first time.] 6. All this while Antigonus besieged those that were in Mas-sada, who had plenty of all other necessaries, but were only inwant * of water, insomuch that on this occasion Joseph, Herod'sbrother, was contriving to run away from it, with two hundredof his dependents, to the Arabians; for he had heard that Mal-chus repented of the offences he had been guilty of with regardto Herod: but God, by sending rain in the night time prevent­ed his going away, for their cisterns were thereby filled, and hewas under no necessity of running away on that account; but theywere now of good courage, and the more so, because the sendingthat plenty of water which they had been in want of, seemed a * This grievous want of water at Massada, till the place had like to have beeataken by the Parthians, mentioned both here, and of the War, B. I chap. xv. sect. 1.vol. III. is an indication that it was now summer time.