OCR Output CHAP. t.' ROMAN HISTORY. 415 CHAP. IX. Suspension of the old, and election of new Magistrates. JL HE" principal of the senate were of opinion, that theyought not to wait tor the usual time of etections, but in­stantly proceed to the election' of new military tribunes,who should enter upon office on the first of October.The opinion met with general approbation; nor did theother military tribunes make the leas.t objection. But Ser-gius and Virginius, on whose account alone, it wasevidentthe senate were displeased with that year's magistrates,first intreated that they might not be disgraced, and atlast entered a protest against the decree of the senate,declaring they would not quit their office till the thir­teenth of December, the usual time for the election of newmagistrates. , During these disputes, the tribunes of the people, who,much against their inclination, bad been quiet, whilstharmony prevailed, and the affairs of the republic werein a prosperous train; began all of a sudden to assumean imperious tone, and threatened the military tribuneswith instant imprisonment, if they did not obey the or­ders of the senate. Then C. Scrvilius Ahala, tribune ofthe soldiers, addressing himself to the tribunes: ' As toyou and your menaces/ said he, ' I should not be dis­pleased with an opportunity of proving, that you havenot more courage to execute, than right to threaten.But the decrees of the senate must be obeyed. Where­fore, tribunes, let us have no more of your interferingin our disputes, to make that a pretence for doing in­justice; and my colleagues shall submit themselves tothe pleasure of the senate, or if they should persist inbeing refractory, I shall instantly name a dictator, whowill know how to oblige them to quit their office.*This discourse was applauded by the whole assembly,the senators being very much pleased, that a more cer­tain and consistent method was found out for keepingmagistrates in order, than the thunder of the tribunitianpower. Sergius and Virginius being thus reduced toobedience, the military tribunes, with common consent,held the Comitia, and elected successors, who were to