OCR Output B. IV. TEAR Til.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 317 the Messenians. This the Naxians perceiving, became morecourageous, and animating one another with the thought thatthe Leontines and their other Greek allies were now march­ing to their relief, they suddenly sally out of the city and fallupon the Messenians, whom they put to flight, and slaughteredmore than a thousand of them; the remainder, with difEculty,escaped to their own homes: for the Barbarians attackedthem upon their road, and made great havoc of them. Theships upon the station of Messene brake up soon after, with­drawing respectively to their own harbours. Immediately the Leontines and allies, in concert with theAthenians, appeared before Messene, as now reduced to avery low ebb. They assaulted it on all sides ; the Atheniansmaking their attempt from their ships on the side of the har­bour, whilst the land-forces did the same on the body ofthe place. But the Messenians, and a party of Locrianscommanded by Demoteles, who, after their late blow, hadbeen left there for the security of the place, made a suddensally from the city, and falling unexpectedly on the army ofthe Leontines, put the greater part to flight, and did greatexecution upon them. This was no sooner perceived by theAthenians, than they threw themselves ashore to succourtheir confederates, and falling in with the Messenians, whohad lost the order of their battle, drove them again behindtheir walls. This done, having erected a trophy, they putover to Rhegium. And after this, the Grecians of Sicilycontinued a land war against one another, in which the Athe­nians had no participation. At Pylus, the Athenians still kept the Lacedaemoniansblocked up in the island, and the army of the Peloponne-sians remained in their old posts upon the continent, in astate of inactivity. Their constant guard subjected theAthenians to excessive hardships, since provisions and freshwater were equally scarce. There was but one single foun­tain for their use, which lay within the fortress of Pylus,and yielded but a slender quantity of water. The majority Vol. I. 3 H