OCR Output ROMA. BOMA, 7S3 ift (strain hid the aignificance of a kind of out­sat of tbt eitj. Ai iii tbeorj it evidently framed with a view11 lix trionfb of Vespasian and Titos, and as theof tint triumph is also one of the mainuT&TifliU addaced by Becker for his Porta Tri-■jariiii*, it will be necessary to examine it. Thewna're of Joseph us runs as follows (BelL Jwl.rs.? $4, p. 1305, Hnds.): M The emperor and hisas film iprot the night preceding their triumphsi talk building in the Campus Martins, nearla vaplt of bis, where the army was assembledt* unbailed. At break of day the emperorstw fur-tit tod proceeded to the Porticus Octaviaeuv lb* theatre of Marcellus), where, according totasi rutom. the senate were assembled to meetm Vapcian, after offering the usual prayer,ij ilriivering a abort address, dismissed the troops > liar breakfast, whilst he himself returned to the» uoei after the triumphal processions that■Its saw through it. Here the emperor break-«<< aid,baring put on the triumphal dress, andanicad to the gtds whose shrines were at theu. ccasd the pageant to proceed through theai' Becker concludes from this narrative that»lJ<fti Triumphalis must have been outside then, in tbt Campus Martius, and near the publicadi; when the emperor had slept. A furtherM* a, as contends, that the procession went'••Vi 'be o'rei, which must mean the Circus•*jm» and Circus Maximua; and that this was■f br shown from Plutarch {Am. Pavll. 32),bam that Paullus went through the Circi, andlitter passage expressly relates (Lticull 37)a Lacdlus adorned the Circus Flaininius withi arcs, Ac which be had taken, which it would«!««1 to suppose be would have done unless the•waia plated through that circus. Then conies afoartiou we hare already noticed, that the"aia «f Vespasian passed through the archnwftd by bis younger son Domitian some years? a father a death. After passing through theut F'aniniui, Becker thiuks that the pro-ax trot through the P. Carmentalis, and bytVii Jugarios to the forum, along tho latter"rtrnoau, and finally through the Vicus Tuscus,Tiabnun, and Forum Boarium, into the Circus'ou Baring conducted the emperors thusaWiar takes lea re of them, and we remain corr-■7 u tbt dark as to the manner in which they« of the cocoa and found their way back• tube furum and Capitol, the usual destina-^ Indmphant generals. ^iitur; that Becker has here given a true inter-awe J tbe text of Joseph us as it stands, weI . to exarnine the conclusions that have"»rn from it, beginning witii those of Preller.1 trcer baa very properly assumed (Jiegionen,K; that if the triumphal arch did not actually > pneerium it led at all events into a terri-«■-'/« to tbe jurisdiction of the city, into whicha aaaaful for a general cum imprrio to puss■* tie permission of the senate. Had not thisiat tat abole hn«in~» would have been a mere vain•» ■rreoneiiy. The account of Vespasian's tri­al awes indeed a little repugnant to this view,I la Bat the senate in tbe Porticus Octaviae,■ aaUatiappuiiticci was considerably beyond the*T and wtuch he had therefore crossed beforeai stained authority to do so. Still more re-■at a Diam't account of the triumph of Tiberius, who, we are told, assembled the senate at the sameplace precisely on the ground that it was outside ofthe pomoerium, and that consequently he did notviolate their privileges by assembling them there(fj Tf TO 'OKTaoiieioK tt/k £ooA4)i> IjBpourt 5ia tof{» too vufirjplov atrrb final, Iv. 8). But as theseinstances occurred in the imperial times, when itmay be said with Becker (jlandb. p. 151, note)that the ceremony no longer had any meaning, wewill go back for an example to the early ages of theRepublic. First, however, we must demand theacknowledgment that the triumphal gate passed byVespasian was the same, or at least stood on thesame spot, as that which had been in use from timeimmemorial. We cannot allow it to be shiftedabout like a castle on a chessboard, to suit theconvenience of commentators; and we make thisdemand on the authority of Josephus himself intbe very passage under discussion, who tells usthat it took its name from the circumstance that thetriumphal processions had alwayt passed through it(dtb too tt(ut((t(Au 8i' aor^r del tovs dptifiSousttji wpoffiryopiay At' avraw t*tuxuicw). NowLivy, in his account of the triumph of the consulsValerius and Horatius, relates that they assembledthe senate in the Campus Martius to solicit thathonour; but when the senators complained thatthey were overawed by the presence of the military,the consuls called tbe senate away into the PrataFlaminia, to the spot occupied in the time of thehistorian by the temple of Apollo. (" Consules excompusito eodem biduo ad urbem accessere, sena-tumque in Martium Campuin eroemvre. Ubi quumde rebus a se gestis agerent, qnesti primores Pat ruin,senatum inter milites dedita opera tcrroris causahaberi. Itaque inde Consules, ne criminationi essetlocum, in prata Flaminia, ubi nunc aedes Apollinis(jam turn Apollinare appellabant) avocavere se­natum," iii. 63.) This temple was situated closeto the Porticus Octaviae (Becker, llandb. p. 605),and therefore considerably nearer the city than thespot indicated either by Becker or Preller. Tbeconsuls therefore must have already passed beyondthe Porta Triumphalis before they began to solicitthe senate for leave to do sol Becker, however, has been more careful, and hasnot extended the jurisdiction of the city beyond thewalls of Servius, at this part of the Campus, beforethe time of the emperor Claudius. But what re­sults from his view? That the whole affair of tbePorta Triumphalis was mere farce, — that it lednowhere, — that the triumphant general, when hebad passed through it by permission of the senate,was as much outside the city boundary as lie wasbefure. But that it afforded a real entrance intothe town clearly appears from the passage in Cicero'soration against Piso (c. 23); "Cum ego Caelimon-tana porta introisse dixissem, sponsione me, nirCsquilina introisset, homo promtissimus lacessivit.Quasi vero id aut ego scire debuerim, aut vestrumquispiam audierit, aut nd rem pertineat qua tuporta introieris, modo ne triumphali; quae portaMacedonicis semper proconsulibus ante te patuit."The Porta Triumphalis being here put on a level withthe Caelimontana and Esquilina, the natural conclu­sion is that, like them, it afforded an actual, thoughnot customary, entrance within the walls. We furtherlearn from the preceding passage that this samePorta Triumphalis had been open to every proconsulof Macedonia before Piso, including of course L, Aemi-lius Paullus, who triumphed over Perseus B.C. 167 3 c