OCR Output «3S TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK III. manifest perjury in his evidence against Cicso. For,from many concurring testimonies, it was evident thatVolscius's brother, from the time he had been confmed tohis bed, had never left it, far less been seen abroad;and after he had languished for several months underthe disease, it had at last carried him off. Neither was.Cseso at Rome, the time condescended on in the indict­ment; many of his camp companions affirming, that hehad been all that time attending his colours, withoutever leaving them; the truth of which was vouched bymany. But he durst not venture to stand this trial; for, fromso many concurrmg circumstance?, the condemnation ofVoiscius was no more doubted, than Cseso's upon hissingle testimony. The tribunes, however, put off' thetrial, refusing to sutler the Quaestors to hold the Comitiafor that purpose, till they were first assembled for enact­ing the law. Consequently both these points were de­ferred till the return of the consuls. When the consuls entered the city in triumph with,their victorious army, as no mention was made of the.law, it was generally- believed that the tribunes were over­awed by their presence. But, as the year was near anend, anxious to. get themselves elected for the fourthtime, they had dropt all disputes about the law, to leavethemselves at liberty to canvass for next election. Andalthough the consuls exerted themselves as strenuously tooppose the re-election of the sau <• tribunes, as if a billhad been preferred to curtail their authority, yet in thecontest the tribunes prevailed. This year the /Equi sued for peace, which was grant­ed them; and the census, which had been begun lastyear, was finished in this. This was the tenth lustrationwinch had been made since the building of the city.One hundred and thirty-two thousand four hundred andnine citizens were enrolled-. The consuls, by their con­duct this year, both in peace and war, gained immortalhonour; for they made peace with all their neighbours;and the state, though the demon of discord was not to­tally expelled, was not so much embroiled as in ovheiconsulships.