OCR Output 438 ROMAN EMPIRE. Under the standard of their queen Cahina, the inde­pendent tribes acquired some degree of union and dis­cipline; and as the Moors respected in their femalesthe character of a prophetess, they attacked the invaderswith an enthusiasm similar to their own. The veteranbands of Hassan were inadequate to the defence of Africa:the conquests of an age were lost in a single day; andthe Arabian chief, overwhelmed by the torrent, retiredto the confines of Egypt, and expected, five years, thepromised succours of the caliph. After the retreat ofthe Saracens, the victorious prophetess assembled theMoorish chiefs, and recommended a measure of strangeand savage policy. "Our cities (said she), and thegold and silver which they contain, perpetually attractthe arms of the Arabs. These vile metals are not theobjects of our ambition; we content ourselves with thesimple productions of the earth. Let us destroy thesecities; let us bury in their ruins those pernicious trea­sures; and when the avarice of our foes shall be desti­tute of temptation, perhaps they will cease to disturb thetranquillity of a warlike people." The proposal wasaccepted with unanimous applause. From Tangier toTripoli the buildings, or at least the fortifications, weredemolished, the fruit-trees were cut down, the means ofsubsistence were extirpated, a fertile and populous gardenwas changed into a desert, and the historians of a morerecent period could discern the frequent traces of theprosperity and devastation of their ancestors. Such isthe tale of the modern Arabians. Yet I strongly suspectthat their ignorance of antiquity, the love of the mar­vellous, and the fashion of extolling the philosophy ofbarbarians, has induced them to describe, as one volun­tary act, the calamities of three hundred years, since thefirst fury of the Donatists and Vandals. In the progressof the revolt, Cahina had most probably contributed hershare of destruction; and the alarm of universal ruinmight terrify and alienate the cities that had reluctantly