OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of the flesh and of the spirit. Disobedient to the latter, or at least to the meaning,of the royal summons, he was attended by fifty Egyptian bishops, who expectedfrom their patriarch's nod their inspiration of the Holy Ghost. He had contract­ed an intimate alliance with Memnon, bishop of Ephesus. The despotic primateof Asia disposed of the ready succours of thirty or forty episcopal votes: a crowdof peasants, the slaves of the church, was poured into the city, to support withblows and clamours a metaphysical argument; and the people zealously assertedthe honour of the Virgin, whose body reposed within the walls of Ephesus.(l)The fleet, which had transported Cyril from Alexandria, was laden with theriches of Egypt; and he disembarked a numerous body of mariners, slaves, and fa­natics enlisted with blind obedience under the banners of St. Mark and the motherof God. The fathers, and even the guards, of the council, were awed by thismartial array; the adversaries of Cyril and Mary were insulted in the streets, orthreatened in their houses; his eloquence and liberality made a daily increase inthe number of his adherents: and the Egyptian soon computed, that he mightcommand the attendance and the voices of two hundred bishops. (2) But the au­thor of the twelve anathemas foresaw and dreaded the opposition of John of An-tioch, who with a small, though respectable train of metropolitans and divines,was advancing by slow journeys from the distant capital of the east. Impatient ofa delay, which he stigmatized as voluntary and culpable,(3) Cyril announced theopening of the synod sixteen days after the festival of Pentecost. Nestorius, whodepended on the near approach of his eastern friends, persisted, like his prede­cessor Chrysostom, to disclaim the jurisdiction, and to disobey the summons, ofhis enemies: they hastened his trial, and his accuser presided in the seat of judg­ment. Sixty-eight bishops, twenty-two of metropolitan rank, defended his causeby a modest and temperate protest; they were excluded from the counsels of theirbrethren. Candidian, in the emperor's name, requested a delay of four days; theprofane magistrate was driven with outrage and insult from the assembly of thesaints. The whole of this momentous transaction was crowded into the compass ofa summer's day; the bishops delivered their separate opinions; but the uniformityof style reveals the influence or the hand of a master, who has been accusedof corrupting the public evidence of their acts and subscriptions. (4) Without a dis­senting voice they recognised, in the epistles of Cyril, the Nicene creed and thedoctrine of the fathers: but the partial extracts from the letters and homilies ofNestorius were interrupted by curses and anathemas; and the heretic was de­graded from his episcopal and ecclesiastical dignity. The sentence, maliciouslyinscribed to the new Judas, was affixed and proclaimed in the streets, of Ephesus:the weary prelates, as they issued from the church of the mother of God, weresaluted as her champions; and her victory was celebrated by the illuminations,the songs, and the tumult of the night. On the fifth day the triumph was clouded by the arrival and indignation of theeastern bishops. In a chamber of the inn, before he had wiped the dust from hisshoes, John of Antioch gave audience to Candidian the imperial minister; who re­lated his ineffectual efforts to prevent or annul the hasty violence of the Egyptian.With equal haste and violence, the oriental synod of fifty bishops degraded Cyriland Memnon from their episcopal honours, condemned, in the twelve anathemas,the purest venom of the Apollinarian heresy, and described the Alexandrian pri­mate as a monster, born and educated for the destruction of the church. (5) Hi* (1) The Christians of the four first centimes were ignorant of the death and burial of Mary. The traditionof Ephesus is affirmed by the synod (svfi* o fiio>.oyo? Iwawit;, x*i n fcoroxoc srspflsi-os M«f<*. Concil. torn,iii. p. 1102.) yet it has been superseded by the claim of Jerusalem; and her empty sepulchre, as it was shownto the pilgrims, produced the fable of her resurrection and assumption, in which the Greek and Latin churcheshave piously acquiesced. See Baronius (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 48. No. 6, &c.) and Tillemont, (Mem. Eccles.torn. i. p. 407—477. (2) The Acts of Chalcedon (Concil. torn. iv. p. 1405,1408.) exhibit a lively picture of the blind, obstinate ser­vitude of the bishop of Egypt to their patriarch. (3) Civil or ecclesiastical business detained the bishops at Antioch, tilt the eighteenth of May. Ephesus wasat the distance of thirty days* journey; and ten days more may be fairly allowed for accidents and repose.The march of Xenophon over the same ground enumerates about two hundred and sixty parasangs or leagues;and this measure might be illustrated from aacient and modern itineraries, if I knew now to compare thespeed of any army, a synod and a caravan. John of Antioch is reluctantly acquitted by Tillemont himself.(Mem. Eccles. torn. xiv. p. 286—28°.) (4) Mff*$a«ivov ftti kxtix to Ssw to tv Egbtw trvmfavat uTD^v^m n-xvouflyi* St x«i rtvi u$t trfiM xitit/zrofitM K<J0iA.Xai>•nxvx^om-o;. Evagrius, lib. i. c 7. The same imputation was urged by Count Ircnseus; (torn. iii. p. 1249.) andthe orthodox critics do not find it an easy task to defend the purity of the Greek or Latin copies of theActs. (5) O' J, ss* om6s» m s«M"»» rtflu; w ro*psi,-. After the coalition of John and Cyril, these invectives Vo-x. nr. 27