OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a palace near Verona, which had not heen erected for thebarbarians, he feasted the companions of his arms; in­toxication was the reward of valour„and the king himselfwas tempted by appetite, or vanity, to exceed the ordi­nary measure of his intemperance. After draining manycapacious bowls of Rhaetian or Falernian wine, he calledfor the skull of Cunimund, the noblest and most pre­cious ornament of his sideboard. The cup of victory wasaccepted with horrid applause by the circle of the Lom­bard chiefs. "Fill it again with wine (exclaimed theinhuman conqueror), fill it to the brim; carry this gobletto the queen, and request in my name that she wouldrejoice with her father." In an agony of grief and rage,Rosamond had strength to utter, "Let the will of mylord be obeyed!" and, touching it with her lips, pro­nounced a silent imprecation, that the insult should bewashed away in the blood of Alboin. Some indulgencemight be due to the resentment of a daughter, if she hadnot already violated the duties of a wife. Implacable inher enmity, or inconstant in her love, the queen of Italyhad stooped from the throne to the arms of a subject,and Helmichis, the king's armour-bearer, was the secretminister of her pleasure and revenge. Against the pro­posal of the murder he could no longer urge the scruplesof fidelity or gratitude; but Helmichis trembled, whenhe revolved the danger, as well as the guilt, when he re­collected the matchless strength and intrepidity of a war­rior, whom he had so often attended in the field of bat­tle. He pressed and obtained, that one of the bravestchampions of the Lombards should be associated to theenterprise; but no more than a promise of secrecy couldbe drawn from the gallant Peredeus; and the mode ofseduction employed by Rosamond betrays her shamelessinsensibility both to honour and love. She supplied theplace of one of her female attendants, who was belovedby Peredeus, and contrived some excuse for darkness andsilence, till she could inform her companion that he had