OCR Output 86 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP..-XL. more spacious plan was described, and, as it required theconsent of some proprietors of ground, they obtained themost exorbitant terms from the eager desires and timo­rous conscience of the monarch. Anthemius formedthe design, and his genius directed the hands often thou­sand workmen, whose payment in pieces of fine silverwas never delayed beyond the evening. The emperorhimself, clad in a linen tunic, surveyed each day theirrapid progress, and encouraged their diligence by his fa­miliarity, his zeal, and his rewards. The new cathedralof St. Sophia was consecrated by the patriarch, five yearseleven months and ten days from the first foundation;and, in the midst of the solemn festival, Justinian ex­claimed with devout vanity, "Glory be to God, whohath thought me worthy to accomplish so great a work.:I have vanquished thee, O Solomon !"m But the prideof the Roman Solomon, before twenty years had elapsed,was humbled by an earthquake, which overthrew theeastern part of the dome. Its splendour was again re­stored by the perseverance of the same prince; and, inthe thirty-sixth year of his reign, Justinian celebratedthe second dedication of a temple, which remains, aftertwelve centuries, a stately monument of his fame. Thearchitecture of St. Sophia, which is now converted intothe principal mosch, has been imitated by the Turkishsultans, and that venerable pile continues to excite thefond admiration of the Greeks, and the more rational cu-Descrip- riosity of European travellers. The eye of the spectatoris disappointed by an irregular prospect of half domes andshelving roofs: the western front, the principal approach,is destitute of simplicity and magnificence: and the scaleof dimensions has been much surpassed by several ofthe Latin cathedrals. But the architect, who first erected m Solomon's temple was surrounded with courts, porticoes, &c. but the properstructure of the house of God was no more (if we take the Egyptian or Hebrew cu­hit at twenty-two inches) than fifty-five feet in height, thirty-six and two-thirds inbreadth, and one hundred and ten in length—a small parish-church, says Prideaux(Connex. vol. 1. p. 144, folio); but few sanctuaries could be valued at four or fivemillions starling!