OCR Output MASSILTA. 293 MASSILIA. his time speaks of the power being in the hands ofthe "selecti et principes," or as he calls them inanother place the "optimates;" and though theadministration was equitable, "there was," he says,"in this condition of the * populus' a certain resem­blance to servitude." Though the people had littleor no power, so far as we can learn, vet the nameI Mims was in use; and probably, as in most Greektowns, the official title was Boule and Demus, as atKane it was Senat us Populusqne Romanus. Thedivision of the people was into Phylae. The councilof the 600 probably subsisted to a late period, forLacian, or whoever is the author of the ToxarU(c 24) mentions it in his story of the friendship ofZenothetnis and Menecrates. Sane writers have attempted, out of the fragments<<f antiquity, to reconstruct the whole polity of Mas-sjiia; an idle and foolish attempt. A few things■re recorded, which are worth notice; and thoughthe authority for some of them is not a criticalwriter, we can hardly suppose that he invented.(Yaler. Maxim, ii. 6.) Poison was kept under thetire of the administration, and if a man wished todie, he must apply to the Six Hundred, and if hen*ie out a good case, he was allowed to take a dose;and * herein," says Valerius, " a manly investiga-ticn was tempered by kindness, which neither al-liwwi any one to depart from life without a cause,aad wisely gives to him who wishes to depart aspwdy way to death." The credibility of this usageh*> been doubted on various grounds; but there isinching in it contrary to the notions of antiquity.Two coftins always stood at the gates, one for thethe ilave, one for the freeman; the bodies wereUkeo to the place of interment or burning, which­ever it was, in a vehicle: the sorrow terminated onthe day of the funeral, which was followed by adyrwstic sacrifice and a repast of the relations. Thething was done cheap: the undertaker would notgrow rich at Massalia. No stranger was allowedto enter the city with arms: they were taken fromhim, and restored when he went away. These andHher precautions had their origin in the insecurity©fr settlers among a warlike and hostile populationrf Mgorians and Galli. The Massaliots also haddare*, as all Greeks had; and though manumission»m permitted, it may be inferred from Valerius, ifhe has not after his fashion confounded a Greek andfcmia usage, that the slave's condition was hard.Asoppjy of slaves might begot from the Galli, whotold their own children. Whether the Ligurian was*> U*e, may be doubted. We read of Ligurians**iing for daily hire for Massaliot masters. Thistardy race, men and women, used to come downfr*m the mountains to earn a scanty pittance bytiffing the ground ; and two ancient writers havepiannsl the same story, on the evidence of Posi-Aeius, of the endurance of a Ligurian woman, whowaj working for a Massaliot farmer, and being seized■ith the pains of childbirth, retired into a wood to betart-red, and came back to her work, for she wouldw l«e her hire, (Strab. iii. p. 165; Diodor. iv. 20.)^ ■ just to add that the employer paid the poor*r*n*n her wages, and sent her off with the child. The temperance, decency, and simplicity of Mas-•aVwt manners during their best period, before they**i iene been subjected to Roman rule, are com-B?ended by the ancient writers. The women drank&> "me. Those spectacles, which the Romans calledMind, coarse, corrupting exhibitions, were pro~h&tai. Against religious impostors the Massa- Hot shut his door, for in those days there were menwho made a trade of superstition. The highestsum of money that a man could get with a womanwas a hundred gold pieces: he must take a wifefor what she was worth, and not for her money.She had five gold pieces for her dress, and five forher gold ornaments. This was the limit fixed bythe sumptuary laws. Perhaps the Massaliot womenwere handsome enough to want nothing more. Massalia cultivated literature, though it did notproduce, as far as we know, either poets or histo­rians. An edition (Stdptfuwti) of the Homericpoems, called the Massaliot edition, was used by theAlexandrine critics in settling the text of Homer.It is not known by whom this ediion was made;but as it bore the name of Massalia, it may bosupposed that it came from this city. The nameof Pytheas is inseparably connected with the mari­time fame of Massalia, but opinions will alwaysdiffer, as they did in antiquity, as to the extent ofhis voyages and his veracity. (Strab. ii. p. 104.)That this man, a contemporary of Alexander, navi­gated the Atlantic Ocean, saw Britain, and exploreda large part of the western coast of Europe, canhardly be doubted. There was nothing strange inthis, for the Phoenicians had been in Britain cen­turies before. Pliny (ii. 97) records a statement ofPytheas as to the high tides on the British coast,Strabo (ii. p. 71) states that Hipparchus, on theauthority of Pytheas, placed Massalia and Byzantiumin the same latitude. But it appears from anotherpassage of Strabo (ii. p. 115), that Hipparchus saidthat the ratio between the gnomon and its shadow atByzantium was the same that Pytheas said it wasat Massalia; whence it appears that the conclusionis Hipparchus' own, and that the error may havebeen either in the latitude of Massalia, or in thelatitude of Byzantium. As for the voyages ofanother Massaliot, Euthymenes, there is too littleauthority to enable us to say anything certain. As the Massaliots planted their colonies alongthe south coast of Gallia and even in Spain, we mayconclude that all the places which they chose wereselected with a view to commerce. The territorywhich Massalia itself had, and its colonies, was in­significant. Montesquieu (Esprit des I^ois, xx. 5)justly estimated the consequences of this city's po­sition : " Marseille, a necessary port of refuge in themidst of a stormy sea ; Marseille, this place wherethe winds, the sea-banks, the form of the coast, bidthe mariner touch, was frequented by maritimepeoples. The sterility of its soil determined com­merce as the pursuit of the inhabitants." TheMassaliots were noted for their excellent ships andtheir skill in constructing machinery. They carriedon a large trade by sea, and we may conclude thatthey exported the products of Gallia, for which theycould give either foreign produce or their own wine,oil, domestic utensils, and arms. The fact that inCaesar's time the Helvetii used the Greek cha­racters, is in itself evidence of the intercourse be­tween the Greeks on the coast and the Galli. Whenwe consider also that the Greeks were settled allalong the southern coast of Gallia, from which theaccess was easy to the basin of the Garonne, it is afair conclusion that they exchanged articles, eitherdirectly or through several hands, with tho Galli onthe Western Ocean; and bo part of the trade ofBritannia would pass through the Greek settlementson the south coast of France. [Gallia, Vol. Lp. 963.] U 3