OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 201 men's natural disposition was such, that they showedrather a dislike to the commission of faults, than suffi­cient resolution to punish them, when committed.' Thisrelieved the pretor and council from a heavy hurden,that of inquiring into the conduct of Scipio. They con­demned Pleminius, with thirty-two others, whom theysent in chains to Rome; and then proceeded to Scipio,that, witnessing all matters, they might carry certaininformation to Rome as to the truth of those reportswhich had been propagated concerning his manner ofliving, inactivity, and total relaxation of military dis­cipline. 22. While they were on their way to Syracuse, Sci­pio prepared, not words, but facts, to clear himself ofany charges in the remission of duty. He ordered allthe troops to assemble in that city, and the fleet to begot in readiness, as if, on that day, there was to be anengagement with the Carthaginians both on land andsea. On the arrival of the commissioners, he gavethem a kind reception and entertainment, and nextday showed them both the land and naval forces, notonly marshalled in exact order, but the former per­forming their evolutions, and the fleet in the harborexhibiting a representation of a naval combat. Thepretor and deputies were then led round to take a viewof the armories, granaries, and other warlike prepara­tions: and with such admiration were they struck, ofeach in particular, and of the whole together, as to be­come thoroughly persuaded that the Carthaginianswould be vanquished by that general and that army,or by no other. They desired him to set out on hisvoyage, with the blessing of the gods; and to fulfil, assoon as possible, the hopes of the Roman people,—those hopes which they had conceived on that day,when all the centuries concurred in naming him firstconsul: saying this, they left the place, and with asmuch joy as if they were to carry to Rome the news ofa victory, not of a grand preparation for war. Ple­minius, and those who were in the same circumstanceswith him, were, on their arrival at Rome, immediately