OCR Output aN. 486.] 397 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. years, six months, and ten days. But beforethose kings such rulers governed them aswere called judges and monarchs. Underthis form of government they continued formore than five hundred years, after thedeath of Moses and of Joshua their com­mander. And this is the account I had togive of the Jews who had been carried intocaptivity, but were delivered from it in thetimes of Cyrus and Darius. *But the Samaritans being enviously dis­posed toward the Jews wrought them manymischiefs; by reliance on their riches, andby their pretence that they were allied to thePersians. And whatsoever it was that theywere enjoined to pay to the Jews, by theking's order, out of their tribute, for the sa­crifices, they would not pay it. They hadalso the governors favourable to them, andassisting them for that purpose. Nor did theyspare to hurt them, either by themselves, orby others, as far as they were able. So theJews determined to send an ambassage toking Darius, in favour of the people of Jeru­salem; and in order to accuse the Samaritans.The ambassadors were Zorobabel, and fourothers of the rulers. And as soon as the kingknew from the ambassadors the accusationsand complaints they brought against the Sa­maritans, he gave them an epistle to be car­ried to the governors and council of Samaria.The contents of the epistle were these:— "King Darius to Tanganas, and Sambabas governors of the Samaritans; to Sadraces andBobelo, and the rest of their fellow servantsthat are in Samaria: Zorobabel, Ananias,and Mordecai, the ambassadors of the Jews,complain of you, that you obstruct them inthe building of the temple, and do not supplythem with the expenses that I commandedyou to do, for the offering their sacrifices.My will is, therefore, that upon reading ofthis epistle, you supply them with whatsoeverthey want for their sacrifices; and that out ofthe royal treasury of the tributes of Samaria,as the priest shall desire; that they may notleave off offering their daily sacrifice, norpraying to God for me, and the Persians." CHAP. V. OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE JEWS UNDER XF.RXK.S, THE SON OVDARIUS; ALSO CONCERNING ESDRAS AND NEHEMIAH. UPON the death of Darius,f the govern­ment devolved upon his son Xerxes,!who, as he inherited his father's kingdom,so did he inherit his piety toward God, andhonour of him. For he did all things agreea­bly to his father's will relating to divine wor­ship; and was exceeding friendly to the Jews.Now about this time|| a son of Jeshua, whosename was Joacim, was the high-priest. More­over there was now in Babylon a righteousman, and one that enjoyed a great reputationamong the multitude. He was the principalpriest of the people; and his name was Es­ * N. B. This part of the history is entirely wanting insill our other copies, both of Ezra and Esdras. t The character which oar celebrated connector of theOld and New Testament has given us of this Darius is,—That he was a prince of great wisdom, clemency, andjustice, and has the honour to be recorded in holy writ,for a favourer of God's people, and a restorer of histemple at Jerusalem, and a promoter of his worshiptherein. For all this God was pleased to make him hisinstrument; and, with respect to this, I doubt not, it was,that he blessed him with a numerous issue, a long reign,and great prosperity. For, though he was not so veryfortunate in his wars against the Scythians and Grecians,yet every where else he had full success in all his under­takings, and not only restored and fully settled the empireof Cyrus, after it had been much shaken by Cambyses,and the Magian, but also added many large and rich pro­vinces to it, especially those of India, Thrace, Macedon,and the Isles of the Ionian sea. Pridcaitx't Connection,anno 486. B. I % Darius had three sons by his first wife, the daugh­ter of Gobrias, all born before his advancement to thethrone, and four others by Atossa, the daughter of Cyrus, who were all born after it. Of the former Artabasaneswas the eldest; of the latter Xerxes; and, as Darius ad­vanced in years, between these two was the competitionfor the succession. Artabasanes urged, that, as he wasthe eldest son, according to the custom and usage of allnations, he ought to be preferred before any that wasyounger. But Xerxes replied to this, That he was theson of Darius by Atossa, the daughter of Cyrus, who wasthe first founder of the Persian empire; for which reasonhe held it just and reasonable, that the crown of Cyrusshould rather come to a descendant of Cyrus, than to onethat was not; and to this he added, that though Artaba­sanes was the eldest son of Darius, yet he was not theeldest son of a king; that he was born when he was onlya private person, and could therefore claim no more thanto be heir of his private fortunes; but that as to himself,he was the first-born after his father was king, and hadtherefore the best right to succeed1 him m the kingdom.Whereupon he was nominated to the succession, but notso much for the strength of his plea, as for the influencewhich his mother Atossa had over the inclinations of herhusband. PridetLttx's Connection, anno 486. B.II An. 479. 3U2