OCR Output VIA APPIA. 12S9 VIA APPIA. starting from Brundusium, meet at Beneventum.Thence to Rome the road is called the Appian,passing through Caudium. Calatia, Capua, andCasilinnm, to Sinnessa. The whole distance fromliome to Brundusium is 360 miles. There is yet athird road, from Rhegium, through the Bruttiona andLacaniana,and the lands of the Samnites toCampania,where it joins the Appian; this pasties through theA pcnnine mountains, and is three or four days'journey longer than that from Brundusium." (Strab.t. p. 283.) It is not improbable that the first ofthese branches, which Strabo distinctly distinguishesfrom the true Appian Way, is the Via Numicia orMinncia (the reading is uncertain), mentioned byHorace as the alternative way by which it was cus­tomary to proceed to Brundusium. (Hor. Ep. i.18. 20.) But Strabo gives ns no information as tohow it proceeded from Uerdonia, in the plains ofApulia, through the mountains to Beneventum. Itis, however, probable that it followed nearly thesame line as the high road afterwards constructed byTrajan, through Accae and Eqnus Tuticus. This isindeed one of the principal natural passes throughthis partnf the Apennines, and is still followed, withhttk- deviation, by the modem highroad from Naplesto Rrmetifi and Toronto. But it is worthy of re­mark, that Horace and his companions in theirjourney to Brundusium, of which he has left ust he poetical itinerary (SaL i. 5), appear not to havefollowed this coarse, but to have taken a somewhatmore direct route through Trivicum, and a smalltown not named (" oppidulum quod versu dicere nonest*"), to Canusium. This route, which does notagree with either of those mentioned by Strabo, orwith those given in the Itineraries, was probably dis­used after that constructed by Trajan, throughE<]uaa Tuticus and Aecae, had become the frequentedline. It was to that emperor that the Appian Wayn> indebted for many improvements. He restored,if he was not the first to construct, the highroadthrough tho Pontine Marshes from Forum Appii toTarracina (Dion Cass, lxviii. 15; Hoare, Clou. Tour,vol. i. p. 28) ; and he at the same time constructed,at hia own expense, a new line of highroad from Bene­ventum to Brundusium (Gruter, Inter, p. 151. 2),which is undoubtedly the Via Trajana celebrated bycoins. (KckJiol, vol. iv. p. 421.) It is probable (asalready pointed out) that he did no more than renderpracticable for carriages a line of route previously•'listing, but accessible only to mules; and thatthe Via Trajana coincided nearly with tho roaddescribed by Strabo. But from the time that thisr<iad was laid open to general traffic, the proper ViaAppia through Venusia to Tarentum, which tra­versal a wild and thinly-peopled country, seemsto have fallen much into disuse. It is, however, stillgiven in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 120) though notas the main line of the Appian Way. The latter ap­pellation seems indeed to have been somewhat vaguelyu*ed under the Empire, and the same Itinerarybe»tnws the name on the line, already indicated byStrabo (L £.), that proceeded S. through Lucania andllrutlium to Ithegium, on the .Sicilian Strait, a routewhich never went near Beneventum or Brundusiumat all. The Appian Way long survived the fall of theWentem Kmpire. That portion of it which passedthrough the Pontine Marshes, which was alwaysthe most liable to suffer from neglect, was re­stored liy Theodoric (Gruter. Inter, p. 152. 8); andrrocopius, who travelled over it 40 years later, speaks with admiration of the solidity and perfectionof its construction. "The Appian Way (says he)extends from Rome to Capua, a journey of five daysfor an active traveller. Its width is such as toadmit of the passage of two waggons in contrarydirections. The road itself is worthy of the highestadmiration, for the stone of which it is composed, akind of mill-stone, and by nature very hard, wasbrought by Appius from some distant region, sincenone such is found in this part of the country. Hethen, after having smoothed and levelled the stones,and cut them into angular forms, fitted themclosely together, without inserting either bronieor any other substance. But they are so accu­rately fitted and joined together, as to present theappearance of one compact mass naturally united,and not composed of many parts. And notwith­standing the long period of time that has elapsed,during which they have been worn by the continualpassage of so many carriages and beasts of burden,they have neither been at all displaced from theiroriginal position, nor have any of them been worndown, or even lost their polish." (Procop. B. G. i.14.) The above description conveys an accurateimpression of the appearance which the Appian Waymust have presented in its most perfect state. Theextraordinary care and accuracy with which theblocks that composed the pavement of the Romanroads were fitted together, when first laid down, iswell seen in the so-called Via Triumphalis, which ledto the Temple of Jupiter, on Mons Albanus. [Al>-bani'8 Mons.] But it is evident from many otherexamples, that they became much worn down withtime; and the pavement seen by Procopius haddoubtless been frequently restored. He is also mis­taken in supposing that the hard basaltic lava (silcx)with which it was paved, had to be brought from adistance: it is found in the immediate neighbourhood,and, in fact, the Appian Way itself, from the Capod> Boce to the foot of the A]ban Hills, runs along abank or ridge composed of this lava. Procopius alsofalls into the common mistake of supposing that theroad was originally constructed hy Appius Claudiussuch as he beheld it. But during the long intervalit had been the object of perpetual care and restora­tion; and it is very doubtful how far any of the greatworks along its line, which excited the admiration ofthe Romans in later ages, were due to its originalauthor. Caius Gracchus in particular had bestowedgreat pains u]»n the improvement of the Romanroads; and there is much reason to believe that itwas in his time that they first assumed the finishedappearance which they ever afterwards bore. (Plut.C. Gracch. 7.) Caesar also, when a young man, waaappointed "Curator Viae Appiae," which had be­come a regular office, and laid out large sums ofmoney upon its improvement. (Plut. Caet. 5.)The care bestowed on it hy successive emperors, andespecially by Trajan, is attested by numerous inscrip­tions. It is very doubtful, indeed, whether the originalVia Appia, as constructed by the censor Appius, wascarried through the Pontine Marshes at all. Nomention is found of his draining those marshes,without which such a work would have been im­possible; and it ia much more probable that the randwas originally carried along the hills by Cora, Norba,and Setia, by the same line which waa again in use inthe last century, before the Pontine Marshes had beendrained for the last time by Pius VI, This conjectureis i-until tucd by the circumstance that Lucilius, in