OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 177 them,) with orders to lead three thousand men fromRhegium to Locri, and for Quintus Pleminius, pro-pretor, to give assistance in the business. These setout as commanded, carrying scaling ladders fitted tothe height of the citadel, according to their informa­tion, and about midnight they gave the signal from theplace appointed, to those who were to betray thatfortress. These were prepared, and on the watch ; andletting down from their side machines made for thepurpose, received the Romans as they climbed up inseveral places at once. They then fell on the Cartha­ginian sentinels, who, not apprehending any danger,were fast asleep; their dying groans were the firstsound heard. A sudden consternation followed as theremainder awoke, with a general confusion from beingwholly ignorant of the cause of alarm. At length, thegreater part of them being roused from sleep, the truthwas discovered. And now every one called loudly toarms; that the enemy were in the citadel; that thesentinels were slain. The Romans, being much in­ferior in number, would certainly have been over­powered, had not a shout, raised by those who were atthe outside of the citadel, prevented the garrison fromdiscerning on what side the danger threatened, whilethe darkness of the night aggravated every fear. TheCarthaginians, supposing that the citadel had been sur­prised and taken, without attempting a contest, fled toanother fortress not far distant from this. The inhabi­tants held the city which lay between these strong­holds as a prize for the conquerors, slight engagementshappening every day. Quintus Pleminius commandedthe Roman, Hamilcar the Carthaginian garrison, bothof whom increased their forces daily, by calling in aidfrom the neighboring places. At length Hannibal pre­pared to come thither, so that the Romans could nothave kept their ground had not the principal part ofthe Locrensians, exasperated by the pride and avariceof the Carthaginians, inclined to their side. 7. As soon as Scipio was informed that the dangerincreased at Locri, and that Hannibal was approach- LIV. VOL. V. M