OCR Output 218 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHU9. 42. But wonderful it was what a dream I saw that verynight; for when I had betaken myself to my bed, as grieved anddisturbed at the news that had been written to me, it seemed tome, that a certain person stood by me*, and said, " O Josephus !" leave off to afflict thy soul, and put away all fear ; for what" now grieves thee will render thee very considerable, and in" all respects most happy ; for thou shalt get over not only these" difficulties, but many others, with great success. However," be not cast down, but remember that thou art to fight with" the Romans." When I had seen this dream, I got up with anintention of going down to the plain. Now, when the wholemultitude of the Galileans, among whom were the women andchildren, saw me, they threw themselves down upon their faces,and, with tears in their eyes, besought me not to leave them'exposed to their enemies, nor to go away and permit theircountry to be injured by them. But, when I did not complywith their entreaties, they compelled me to take an oath, that Iwould stay with them : they also cast abundance of reproachesupon the people of Jerusalem, that they would net let tlieircountry enjoy peace. 43. When I heard this, and saw what sorrow the people werein, I was moved with compassion to them, and thought it be足came me to undergo the most manifest hazards for the sake ofso great a multitude ; so I let them know I would stay withthem. And when I had given order that five thousand of themshould come to me armed, and with provisions for their main足tenance, I sent the rest away to their own homes ; and, whenthose five thousand were come, I took them, together with threethousand of the soldiers that were with me before, and eightyhorsemen, and marched to the village of Chabolo, situated in theconfines of Ftolemais, and there kept my forces together, pre足tending to get ready to fight with Placidus, who was come withtwo cohorts of footmen, and one troop of horsemen, and was sentthither by Cestius Gallus to burn those villages of Galilee thatwere near Ptolemais. Upon whose casting up a bank beforethe city Ptolemais, I also pitched my camp at about the distanceof sixty furlongs from that village. And now we frequentlybrought out our forces as if we would fight, but proceeded nofarther than skirmishes at a distance ; for, when Placidus per足ceived that I was earnest to come to battle, he was afraid, andavoided it. Yet did he not remove from the neighbourhood ofPtolemais. ' '44. About * This I take to be the Erst of Josephus's remarkable or divine dreams, whichwere predictive of the great things that afterward came to pass; of which seemore in the note on Antiq' B. III. chap. viii. sect. 5. The other is in the War,B. III. ch. viii. sect. 3. 5.