OCR Output C. IX.] SIMON OF GEEASA. 137 the battle all that day; and the dispute lay whether they hadconquered him or been conquered by him. So he went backto Nain, as did the Idumeans return home. Nor was it longere Simon came violently again upon their country; whenhe pitched his camp at a certain village called Thecoe, andsent Eleazar, one of his companions, to those that kept garri­son at Hcrodium, and in order to persuade them to surrenderthat fortress to him. The garrison received this man readily,while they knew nothing of what he came about; but assoon as he talked of the surrender of the place, they fellupon him with their drawn swords, till he found he had noplace for flight, when he threw himself down from the wallinto the valley beneath; so he died immediately; but theIdumeans, who were already much afraid of Simon's power,thought fit to take a view of the enemy's army before theyhazarded a battle with them. 6. Now there was one of their commanders named Jacob,who offered to serve them readily upon that occasion, but hadit in his mind to betray them. He went, therefore, from thevillage Allurus, wherein the army of the Idumeans weregotten together, and came to Simon; and at the very first heagreed to betray his country to him, and took assurancesupon oath from him that he should always have him in esteem,and then promised him that he would assist him in subduingall Idumea under him: upon which account ho was feastedafter an obliging manner by Simon, and elevated by hismighty promises ; and when he was returned to his own menhe at first belied the army of Simon, and said it was manifoldmore in number than what it was; after which he dexterouslypersuaded the commanders, and, by degrees, the whole multi­tude, to receive Simon, and to surrender the whole govern­ment up to him without fighting. And as he was doing this,he invited Simon by his messengers, and promised him todisperse the Idumeans, which he performed also: for as soonas their army was nigh them, he first of all got upon hishorse, and fled, together with those whom he had corrupted;hereupon a terror fell upon the whole multitude, and before 12*