OCR Output 326 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP.XX. II. Bai- TAIN. The Scotsand Piets. cretly posted in a deep valley, betrayed the ambus­cade; and they would perhaps have fallen the victimsof their own treachery, if a large body of cuirassiers,alarmed by the noise of the combat, had not hastilyadvanced to extricate their companions, and to over­whelm the undaunted valour of the Saxons. Someof the prisoners were saved from the edge of thesword, to shed their blood in the amphitheatre: andthe orator Symmachus complains, that twenty-nineof those desperate savages, by strangling themselveswith their own hands, had disappointed the amuse­ment of the public. Yet the polite and philosophiccitizens of Rome were impressed with the deepesthorror, when they were informed, that the Saxonsconsecrated to the gods the tythe of their humanspoil: and that they ascertained by lot the objectsof the barbarous sacrifice. II. The fabulous colonies of Egyptians and Tro­jans, of Scandinavians and Spaniards, which flatteredthe pride, and amused the credulity, of our rudeancestors, have insensibly vanished in the light ofscience and philosophy. The present age is satisfiedwith the simple and rational opinion, that the islandsof Great Britain and Ireland were gradually peopledfrom the adjacent continent of Gaul. From thecoast of Kent, to the extremity of Caithness andUlster, the memory of a Celtic origin was distinctlypreserved, in the perpetual resemblance of language,of religion, and of manners; and the peculiar cha­racters of the British tribes might be naturallyascribed to the influence of accidental and local cir­cumstances *. The Roman province was reduced to * Tacitus, or rather his father-in-law Agricola, might remark the German orSpanish cornplexion of some British tribes. But it was their sober deliberate opi­nion: " In universum tamen aestimanti Gallos vicinum solum occupasse credibile"est. Eorum sacra deprehendas.. sermo haud multum diversus (in Vit. Agricol."c. xi.)" Ca»ar had observed their cornmon" religion (Comment. de Bello Gal-lico, vi. 13.); and in his time the emigration from the Belgic Gaul was a recent,or at least an historical event (v. 10.) Camden, the British Strabo, has modestlyascertained our genuine antiquities (Britannia, vol. i. Introduction, p. ii—xxxi.).