OCR Output 5U [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. place so profane, but was to suffer the mostflagitious treatment possible from her covetoushumour. Yet did not all this suffice so ex­travagant a woman, who was a slave to herlusts. But she still imagined that she wantedevery thing she could think of; and did herutmost to gain it. For this reason she hurriedAntony on perpetually to deprive others oftheir dominions, and give them to her. Andas she went over Syria with him, she contrivedto get it into her possession. So he slew *Ly-sanias, the son of Ptolemy, accusing him of hisbringing the Parthians upon those countries.She also petitioned Antony to give her Judeaand Arabia; and in order thereto desired himto take these countries away from their pre­sent governors. As for Antony, he was soentirely overcome by this woman, that onewould not think her conversation only coulddo it, but that he was some way bewitched todo whatsoever she would have him. Yet didthe grossest parts of her injustice make him soashamed, that he would not always hearkento her, to do those flagrant enormities shewould have persuaded him to. That there­fore he might not totally deny her; nor, bydoing every thing that she enjoined him, ap­pear openly to be an ill man; he took someparts of each of those countries away fromtheir former governors, and gave them to her.Thus he gave her the cities that were withinthe river Eleutherus, as far as Egypt; ex­cepting Tyre and Sidon; which he knew tohave been free cities from their ancestors;although she pressed him very often to bestowthese on her also. When Cleopatra had obtained thus much,and had accompanied Antony in his expedi­tion into Armenia, as far as Euphrates; shereturned back, and came to Apamia, and Da­mascus, and passed on to Judea. ThereHerod met her, and farmed of her some partsof Arabia, and those revenues that came toher from the region about Jericho. Thiscountry bears that balsam, which is the mostprecious drug that is there, and grows therealone. The place also produces many and excellent palm-trees. When she was there,and was very often with Herod; she endea­voured to have criminal conversation with theking. Nor did she affect secrecy in the in­dulgence of such sort of pleasures. And per­haps she had, in some measure, a passion oflove for him; or rather, what is most proba­ble, she laid a treacherous snare for him, byaiming to obtain such an adulterous conver­sation from him. However, upon the whole,she seemed overcome with love to him. NowHerod had a great while borne no good willto Cleopatra, as knowing that she was awoman irksome to all; and at that time hethought her particularly worthy of his hatred,if this attempt proceeded out of lust: he hadalso thought of preventing her intrigues, byputting her to death, if such were her endea­vours. However, he refused to comply withher proposals; and called a council of hisfriends to consult with them, whether heshould not kill her, now he had her in hispower? For that he should thereby deliverall those from a multitude of evils to whomshe was already become irksome, and wasexpected to be still so for the time to come;and that this very thing would be much forthe advantage of Antony himself: since shewould certainly not be faithful to him, in caseany such necessity should come upon him asthat he should stand in need of her fidelity.But when he thought to follow this advice. hisfriends told him that it was not right to attemptso great a thing, and run himself thereby intothe utmost danger. And they begged of himto undertake nothing rashly: for that Antonywould never bear it, though any one shouldevidently lay before his eyes that it was forhis own advantage. And that the appearanceof depriving him of her conversation by thisviolent and treacherous method, would pro­bably set his affections more on a flame thanbefore. Nor did it appear that he could offerany thing of tolerable weight in his defence;this attempt being against such a woman aswas of the highest dignity of any of her sexat that time in the world. And as to any ad­ * This Lysanias was the son of Ptolemy Menneus, andwas king of Chalcis and Iturea; and probably the sameperson that is mentioned by Strabo, XVI. page 756. Thathe was slain, is confirmed by Dio, XLIX. page 411, asDean Aldrich observes. Who also adds, that the slaughterof Malichus about the same time, which Josephus joins with this of Lysanias, in his history Of the War, I. 22.is not mentioned either by Dio, or in the Antiquities ofJosephus himself, or any other author. So that it ishighly probable Josephus missed it here voluntarily, ashaving discovered his former mistake about it.