OCR Output btxii A survey of the History. Wed, and ready to march into Attica, under the commandof Archidamus. Like an able and cautious general he ha­rangues his troops, " encourages them with a sight of their" own numbers, but guards them from catching at that sight" a contempt of their foes. The strict observation of dis-" cipline is always necessary to armies, be they never so" large. No enemy ought ever to be despised, much less" Athenians. 1'hough an enemy, he speaks in high com-" mendation of the latter, and establishes the dignity of their" characters. He ends with an exhortation to his troops," to observe rules, conform to discipline, and bravely to" execute orders; and Spartan-like, concludes with an en-" comium on the beauty and strength of strict military obe-" dience." He then sends a messenger to Athens, to try if a warwere yet to be avoided. The Athenians are as determinedas ever to make no submissions. The messenger is con­ducted out of their territories, and parts from his escort witha pathetic prediction of the miseries in which all Greece isgoing to be involved. Attica soon after is invaded. Themischief done by the invaders is described'; and the senseat Athens of their sufferings and distresses represented atlarge. The reader, on this occasion, will be let into theform and constitution of the Athenian polity. He will see,how they began to be moulded into one community by theprudence of Theseus one of their earliest kings. Other his­torians expatiate on the method, by which from being undera regal they had varied gradually into a purely republicanform. I shall only mention an observation*, that, contraryto most other nations, tluy had abolished the regal govern­ment, not from distate but reverence to kings. Codrus,the last of their kings, had devoted himself for his country,and was so worthy a man, that they resolved no mortalshould afterwards wear that title amongst them. They de­clared Jupiter king of Athens, about the same time that• TourreU's Preface Historique.