OCR Output 168 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. "by them represented to us, that they are no way concerned"with accusations which belong to the Jews, but choose to live"after the customs of the Greeks. Accordingly we declare"them free from such accusations, and order that, agreeable to"their petition, their temple be named, The temple of Jupiter"Hellenius." He also sent the like epistle to Appollonius, thegovernor of that part of the country, in the forty-sixth year,and the eighteenth day of the month Hecatombeon. CHAP. VI. How, upon Antiochus' prohibition to the Jews to make use of thelaws of their country, Mattathias the son of Asmoneus, alonedespised the king, and overcame the generals of Antiochus'army; as also concerning the death of Mattathias, and thesuccession of Judas. § 1. JN ow at this time there was one whose name was Mat­tathias, who dwelt at Modin, the son of John, the son of Sim­eon, the son of Asmoneus, a priest of the order of Joarib,and a citizen of Jerusalem. He had five sons, John, who wascalled Gaddis, and Simon who was called Matthes, and Judaswho was called Maccabeus,* and Eleazar, who was called Au-ran, and Jonathan, who was called Apphus. Now this Mattathiaslamented to his children the sad state of their affairs, and theravage made in the city, and the plundering of the temple, andthe calamities the multitude were under; and he told them, thatit was better for them to die for the laws of their country, thanto live so ingloriously as they then did. 2. But when those that were appointed by the king were cometo Modin, that they might compel the Jews to do what theywere commanded; and to enjoin those that were there to offersacrifice, as the king had commanded, they desired that Matta­thias, a person of the greatest character among them, both onother accounts, and particularly on account of such a numerousand so deserving a family of children, would begin the sacrifice,because his fellow-citizens would follow his example, and be­cause such a procedure would make him honoured by the king.But Mattathias said, "he would not do it; and that if all the * That this appellation of Maccabee was not first of all given to Judas Maccabeus,nor was derived from any initial letters of the Hebrew words on his banner,Mi Kamoka Be Elim, Jehovah? Who is like unto tfiee amojig the gods, 0 Jehovah?Exod. xv. 11. as the modern Rabbins vainly pretend, see Authcnt. Rec. pan I.p. 2O5, 206. Only we may note, by the way, that the original name of theseMaccabees, and their posterity, was Asmonians; which was derived from Asmoneus,the great grandfather of Mattathias, as Josephus here informs us.