OCR Output 202 THE DECLINE AND FALL of subsistence: that the danger of each individual had increasedwith the despotism of the military order, since princes who trembleon the throne, will guard their safety by the instant sacrifice ofevery obnoxious subject. The emperor expatiated on the mischiefsof a lawless caprice which the soldiers could only gratify at the ex-pence of their own blood; as their seditious elections had so fre­quently been followed by civil wars, which consumed the flower ofthe legions either in the field of battle or in the cruel abuse of vic­tory. He painted in the most lively colours the exhausted state ofthe treasury, the desolation of the provinces, the disgrace of theRoman name, and the insolent triumph of rapacious barbarians. Itwas against those barbarians, he declared, that he intended to pointthe first effort of their arms. Tetricus might reign for a while overthe West, and even Zenobia might preserve the dominion of theEast,0. These usurpers were his personal adversaries; nor couldhe think of indulging any private resentment till he had saved anempire, whose impending ruin would, unless it was timely pre-* vented, crufli both the army and the people.A.D. 269. The various nations of Germany and Sarmatia, who fought underinvLtethe' tne Gothic standard, had already collected an armament more for-empire. midable than any which had yet issued from the Euxina On thebanks of the Niester, one of the great rivers that discharge them­selves into it, they constructed a fleet of two thousand, or even ofsix thousand vessels"; numbers which, however incredible theymay seem, would have been insufficient to transport their pretendedarmy of three hundred and twenty thousand barbarians. Whatevermight be the real strength of the Goths, the vigour and success ofthe expedition were not adequate to the greatness of the prepara­tions. In their passage through the Bosphorus, the unskilful pilotswere overpowered by the violence of the current; and while themultitude of their ships were crowded in a narrow channel, manywere dashed against each other, or against the shore. The barba­ rians