OCR Output 20 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. manufactures, whatever could interest the public XIV . prosperity. was moderated by the authority of the Praetorian praefects. As the immediate repre­sentatives of the Imperial majesty, they were em­powered to explain, to enforce, and on some occasionsto modify, the general edicts by their discretionaryproclamations. They watched over the conduct ofthe provincial governors, removed the negligent, andinflicted punishments on the guilty. From all theinferior jurisdictions, an appeal in every matter ofimportance, either civil or criminal, might be broughtbefore the tribunal of the praefect: but his sentencewas final and absolute; and the emperors themselvesrefused to admit any complaints against the judgmentor the integrity of a magistrate whom they honouredwith such unbounded confidence. His appointmentswere suitable to his dignity; and if avarice was hisruling passion, he enjoyed frequent opportunities ofcollecting a rich harvest of fees, of presents, and ofperquisites. Though the emperors no longer dreadedthe ambition of their preefects, they were attentive tocounterbalance the power of this great office by theuncertainty and shortness of its duration *.fectsaf*" From their superior importance and dignity, RomeComtanld an(^ Constantinople were alone excepted from thetinopie. jurisdiction of the Praetorian praefects. The immensesize of the city, and the experience of the tardy, in­effectual operation of the laws, had furnished thepolicy of Augustus with a specious pretence for in­troducing a new magistrate, who alone could restraina servile and turbulent populace by the strong armof arbitrary power. Valerius Messalla was appointedthe first preefect of Rome, that his reputation might * For this and the other dignities of the empire, it may be sufficient to leferto the ample commentaries of Pancirolus and Godefroy, who have diligently col­lected and accurately digested in their proper order all the legal and historicalmaterials. From those authors, Dr. Howell (History of the World, vol. ii. p. 24—77.) had deduced a very distinct abridgement of the state of the Romanempire.