OCR Output 2Q2 NOTES ON THE discourse is referred to tliis god. He presides therefore over everyspecies of erudition, leading us to an intelligible essence from thismortal abode, governing the d'sserent herds of fouls, and dis­persing the sleep ;'.nd oblivion with which they are oppiessed. Heis likewise the supplier of recollection, the end of which is a ge­nuine intellectual apprehension of divine natures." After tliis he observes that the different r.ges of our life on theearth correspond to the order of the universe: "For our firstage (says he) partakes in an eminent degree of the lunar ope­rations; as we then live according to a nutritive and natural. power. But our second age participates of Mercurial preroga­tives; because we then apply ourselves to letters, music and wrest­ling. The third age is governed by Venus; because then we be­gin to produce seed, and the geneiative powers of nature arc putin motion. The fourth age is solar; for then oar youth is in itsvigour and full perfection, subsisting as a medium between gene­ration and decay; for such is the order which vigour is allotted.But the sifth age is governed by Mars; in which we principallyaspiie after power and superiority over others. The sixth age isgoverned by Jupiter; for in this we give ourselves up to pru­dence, and pursue an active and political life. And the seventhage is Saturnian, in which it is natural to separate ourselves fromgeneration, and transfer ourselves to an iueorporeal life. Andthus much we h :ve discussed, in order to procure belief that let­ters, and the wkjble education of youth, is suspended from theMercu: ial series." 1 only add, that as the first gifts of this godare intellectual, lo his last pertain to the acquisition of ain. Hencelie was called the god of merchandise and theft: for crust, as Plo-• tinut- K a ;l;fully observes, is a ('.eflu'xton of intellect; and fromthese two professions craft is inseparable. Pas^e 16-. T« He-culct as to a hero.'] The grand source, aait appears to me, of all that dire confusion which has taken placein opinion- > "^'"g t.ie gods, is the belies that they were no­thing more than men who once lived on the eartk, and after their death