OCR Output 84 [A. U. C. 769. THE A!raiM others, where the windings of the river made an open­ing, stretching into length. In the rear of the Ger­mans, and at a small distance, rose a thick forest; thetrees large and lofty, with branches expanding nearthe top; but the trunks bare towards the bottom, andthe intermediate space clear of underwood. Of thisplain, and the approaches to the wood, the barbarianstook possession. The Cheruscans, apart from the rest,took post on the hills, to watch the fortune of theday, and in good time to pour down with fury on theRoman army. Germanicus ranged his men in thefollowing order: the Gauls and German auxiliariesformed the front of the line, followed by a body ofarchers on foot, and four legions, with Germanicusat the head of two prsetorian cohorts, and a selectbody of cavalry. Four other legions, with the lightinfantry, the horse-archers, and the remainder of theallies, brought up the rear. The whole army pro­ceeded in order of battle, all instructed to preservetheir ranks, and to receive with firmness the first im­pression of the enemy. XVII. The Cheruscans, too impatient to keep theirpost, rushed with impetuosity from their hills. Ger­manicus no sooner saw their motions, than he sent achosen body of horse to charge them in flank, whileStertimus, with another detachment, wheeled roundto fall upon the rear. The general himself was ready,if occasion required, to second the attack at the headof the legions. In that moment eight eagles wereseen stretching with rapid wing towards the wood,where they entered, and disappeared. This was re­ceived as an omen of victory. " Advance," said Ger­manicus, "the Roman birds have marshalled»you the" way. Pursue the tutelar deities of the legions." Theinfantry began the assault in front: the cavalry, atthe same time, charged the flank and rear. The bar­barians, thrown into confusion, presented an uncom­mon spectacle: those who had been stationed in thewoods were driven forward to the plain; and fromthe plain, the foremost lines fled for shelter to thewoods. Between both the Cheruscans were drivendown from their heights. Arminius, their chief, per-