OCR Output Chap. XVI. ANTiyurriES OF THE JEWS. 315 works, neither from the air, nor from the workmen: so theybrought their engines to bear, and shook the walls of the citv,and tried all manner of ways to get in; yet did not these with­in discover any fear, but they also contrived not a few engines tooppose their engines withal. They also sallied out, and burntnot only those engines that were not yet perfected, but those thatwere; and when they came hand to hand, their attempts werenot less bold than those of the Romans, though they were behindthem in skill. They also erected new works when the formerwere ruined, and making mines underground, they met eachother, and fought there: and making useof brutish con rage ratherthan of prudent valour, they persisted in this war to the very last;and this they did while a mighty army lay round about them,and while they were distressed by famine, and the want of neces­saries, for this happened to be a sabbatic year. The first thatscaled the walls were twenty chosen men, the next were Sosius'centurions, for the first wall was taken in forty days, and the se­cond in fifteen more, when some of the cloisters that were aboutthe temple were burnt, which Herod gave out to have been burntby Antigonus, in order to expose him to the hatred of the Jews.And when the outer court of the temple, and the lower city weretaken, the Jews fled into the inner court of the temple, and intothe upper city; but now fearing lest the Romans should hinderthem from offering their daily sacrifices to God, they sent an cm-bassage, and desired that they would only permit them to bringin beasts for sacrifices, which Herod granted, hoping they weregoing to yield, but when he saw that they did nothing of whathe supposed, but bitterly opposed him, in order to preserve thekingdom to Antigonus, he made an assault upon the city, andtook it by storm; and now all parts were full of those that wereslain by the rage of the Romans at the long duration of the siege,and by the zeal of the Jews that were on Herod's side, who werenot willing to leave one of their adversaries alive, so they weremurdered continually in the narrow streets and in the houses bycrowds, and as they were flying to the temple for shelter, andthere was no pity taken of either infants or the aged, nor didthey spare so much as the weaker sex; nay, although the kingsent about, and besought them to spare the people, yet nobodyrestrained their hand from slaughter, but, as if they were a com­pany of madmen, they fell upon persons of all ages, without dis­tinction; and then Antigonus, without regard to either his pastor present circumstances, came down from the citadel, and felldown at the feet of Sosius, who took no pity of him, in thechange of his fortune, but insulted him beyond measure, andcalled him Antigone [_i. c. a woman, and not a man;] yet didVOL. u. R K 25