OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105 emperor as a new era of freedom and prosperity. Thedeputies of the pope and clergy, of the senate and people,invited the lieutenant of Justinian to accept their volun­tary allegiance, and to enter the city, whose gates wouldbe thrown open for his reception. As soon as Belisa-rius had fortified his new conquests, Naples and Cumse,he advanced about twenty miles to the banks of the Vul-turnus, contemplated the decayed grandeur of Capua,and halted at the separation of the Latin and Appianways. The work of the censor, after the incessant useof nine centuries, still preserved its primeval beauty, andnot a flaw could be discovered in the large polished stones,of which that solid, though narrow road, was so firmlycompacted/ Belisarius, however, preferred the Latinway, which, at a distance from the sea and marshes,skirted, in a space of one. hundred and twenty miles, alongthe foot of the mountains. His enemies had disappeared: Belisariuswhen he made his entrance through the Asinarian gate, r^,™the garrison departed without molestation along the Fla- ^J?'^6'ininian way; and the city, after sixty years servitude,was delivered from the yoke of the barbarians. Leuderisalone, from a motive of pride or discontent, refused toaccompany the fugitives; and the Gothic chief, himselfa trophy of the victory, was sent with the keys of Rometo the throne of the emperor Justinian." • . Siege of The first days, which coincided with the old Saturna- Sloths,lia, were devoted to mutual congratulation and the public *ia^'h537'joy; and the Catholics prepared to celebrate, without arival, the approaching festival of the nativity of Christ.In the familiar conversation of a hero, the Romans ac­quired some notion of the virtues which history ascribedto their ancestors; they were edified by the apparent d Bergier (Hist, des Grands Chemins des Romains, torn. 1. p. 221—228. 440—444.) examines the structure and materials, while d'Anville (Analyse d'ltalie, p. 200—"213.) defines the geographical line. * Of the first recovery of Rome, the year (536) iscertain, from the series of events,rather than from the eorrupt, or interpolated, text of Procopins: the month (Decem­ber) is ascertained by Evagrius; (lib. 4. c. 19.) and the day (the tenth) may be admit­ted on the slight evidence of Nicephorns Callislhus. (lib. 17. c. 13.) For this accu­rate chronology, we are indebted to the diligence and judgment of Pagi. (torn. 2. p.550, 560.) ,