OCR Output 46 CHRYSOCOLLA. alum schist,6 and the plant mentioned above. It must be dyedbefore it can dye.r It is of importance that it should be bibulous,and easy to work. If it has not quickly taken the the propercolour, they add schytanum and turbiston,8 names which theygave to two substances which cause it to imbibe the colour. 27. ITS USE IN PAINTING. When it is dyed in this manner, the painters call it Orobitis; 9and there are two kinds of it,—the yellow, which is made into apowder," and the liquid, which is formed by dissolving the grainsin a fluid. Both these kinds are made in Cyprus. The mostapproved comes from Armenia, the next best from Macedonia,but it is the most plentiful in Spain. That is the most valuedwhich produces a colour as nearly as possible similar to the brightgreen of young corn. The arena of the circus was covered withchrysocolla, at the games which were exhibited by the EmperorNero, when he proposed himself to drive his chariot in a dress ofthe same colour. The workmen, who are not well acquaintedwith the substance, divide it into three species; the rough kind,which is valued at seven denarii the pound, the middle kind atfive, and the powder, which is also called the vegetable spe­cies, at three. Painters, before they use the pulverized chry­socolla, lay under it a ground-work of Atramentum2 and Paraeto- 6 "Alumen schistum;" this is described lib. xxxv. sec. 52.'** Pingiturque antequam pingat." • It appears impossible to ascertain the orthography or the derivation ofthese words, nor can we form any conjecture what substances they wereintended to designate. • From its being formed into masses or small grains like the seeds of theorobus or vetch. '"Quae servatur in lomentum;" this phrase may perhaps mean, that thesubstance in question was mixed with some kind of powder, for the purposeof making what we call an opake or body colour. The term lomentum issupposed to be immediately derived from \tnopai, lavo; it occurs again insec. 57. • "Atramentum" is generally translated ink, and it appears that the an­cients applied the term to the fluid which was used for writing. Theirwriting-ink was not, however, like that of the moderns, composed of thegallate of iron, but more like what we term Indian ink, consisting of acarbonaceous substance suspended in a viscid fluid. But we learn from ourauthor, that besides its more general acceptation, the word atramentumwas also applied to a certain pigment, and to something which was used