OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 333 the republic. Into Britain and most probably into Cambridge­shire 46, he transported a considerable body of Vandals. The im­possibility of an escape, reconciled them to their situation, and inthe subsequent troubles of that island, they approved themselves themost faithful servants of the state *\ Great numbers of Franksand Gepidse were settled on the banks of the Danube and theRhine. An hundred thousand Bastarnæ, expelled from their owncountry, cheerfully accepted an establishment in Thrace, and sooaimbibed the manners and sentiments of Roman subjects *8. Butthe expectations of Probus were too often disappointed. Theimpatience and idleness of the barbarians could ill brook the flowlabours of agriculture. Their unconquerable love of freedom,rising against despotism, provoked them into hasty rebellions, alikefatal to themselves and to the provinces 49; nor could these artificialsupplies, however repeated by succeeding emperors, restore the im­portant limit of Gaul and Illyricum to its ancient and nativevigour. Of all the barbarians who abandoned their new settlements, and Dar'"g enter­prise of the disturbed the public tranquillity, a very small number returned to their Franks,own country. For a short season they might wander in arms throughthe empire; but in the end they were surely destroyed by the powerof a warlike empercr. The successful rashness of a party of Frankswas attended with such memorable consequences, that it ought not tobe passed unnoticed. They had been established by Probus, onthe sea coast of Pontus, with a view of strengthening that frontieragainst the inroads of the Alani. A fleet stationed in one of theharbours of the Euxine, fell into the hands of the Franks; and theyresolved, through unknown seas, to explore their way from themouth of the Phasis to that of the Rhine. They easily escapedthrough the Bosphorus and the Hellespont, and cruizing along theMediterranean, indulged their appetite for revenge and plunder,by frequent descents on the unsuspecting shores of Asia, Greece, and X x 2 Africa.