OCR Output 44 CHRYSOCOLLA. gold with water, and then to sprinkle the water upon the thingsthat we wish to purify. If gold be roasted with twice its weightof salt, three of misy,8 and again with two of salt, and one of astone which they call Schiston, the noxious part of it will pass intothe substances that are calcined along with it in the earthen ves­sels, while the metal remains pure and entire. The ashes thatare left in the earthen pot, when made into a paste with water,are useful for removing eruptions from the face; it must bewashed off with bean-meal.9 It also relieves fistulae, and what arccalled haemorrhoids. When mixed with pounded pumice, it curesputrid and foetid ulcers; boiled with honey and melanthium,1 andrubbed on the navel, it opens the body gently. M. Varro as­serts that warts are removed by gold. 26. OF CHRYSOCOLLA.2 Chrysocolla is a liquid substance, found in the pits that havebeen described above, which flows through the veins of gold, andhardens by the cold of winter, until it acquires the solidity of 8 "Miseos;" Misy is described by our author in book xxxiv. § 31; alsoby Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 71; it is frequently mentioned by Agricola;De Nat. Foss. lib. iii. p. 219, & alibi. It appears to have been an impurevitriol. 9 "Lomentum;" said to be meal made from the lotos. 1 Melanthion is described at large in book xx. sec 71, as " Gith ex Grsecis,alii Melanthium, &c." and is referred to in various other passages. Ithas been supposed to be coriander, but the following passage from Columella,x. 244, 5. seems to prove that this is not the case; "famosaque tunc coriandra Nascuntur, gracilique melantia grata cumino."Hermolaus, the commentator on Dioscorides, refers to it under the appel­lation of "Gith quasi Nigellam;" lib. i. sec. 47. Celsus enumerates Gitamong the medicines "quae calefaciunt;" lib. ii. cap. 33; and in lib. iv.cap. 20, classes it with castoreum and anethum. It is mentioned by Scrib.Largus, sec. 69, 0, & 131, 141; from the substances with which it is asso­ciated it may be concluded that it was some heating or stimulating seed,perhaps a species of pepper. * Chrysocolla has been commonly translated Borax; but, as it appears,incorrectly. Our author speaks of the same substance in lib. xxxv. sec.12 & 18, as a species of pigment. See also the present book, sec. 57, andSalmasius, Exerc. Plin. p. 811. Aristotle says that the best Chrysocolla isfound near gold; De Mirab. Aus. cap. SO; Theophrastus describes it as of asandy nature, Op. p* 396. 7, and classes it with aptnviKOv, aavSapaKa,