OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 100. sons of Epicurus so strangely scandalized the pious earsof the Athenians, that by his exile, and that of his anta­gonists, they silenced all vain disputes concerning thenature of the gods. But, in the ensuing year, theyrecalled the hasty decree, restored the liberty of theschools, and were convinced, by the experience of ages,that the moral character of philosophers is not affectedby the diversity of their theological speculations.™ The Gothic arms were less fatal to the schools ofT1,ey«reAthens than the establishment of a new religion, whose by justi-ministers superseded the exercise of reason, resolved maD'every question by an article of faith, and condemned theinfidel or sceptic to eternal flames. In many a volumeof laborious controversy, they exposed the weakness ofthe understanding and the corruption of the heart, in- . ■suited human nature in the sages of antiquity, and pro­scribed the spirit of philosophical inquiry, so repugnant ■to the doctrine, or at least to the temper, of an humblebeliever. The surviving sect of the Platonists, whomPlato would have blushed to acknowledge, extravagantlymingled a sublime theory with the practice of supersti­tion and magic; and, as they remained alone in the midstof a Christian world, they indulged a secret rancouragainst the government of the church and state; whoseseverity was still suspended over their heads. About acentury after the reign of Julian," Proclus0 was permitted Proclus.to teach in the philosophic chair of the academy; andsuch was his industry that he frequently, in the same day, m The birth of Epicurus is fixed to the year 342 before Christ, (Bayle), Olympi­ad 109. 3. and he opened his school at Athens, Olymp. 118. 3. three hundred and sixyears before the same era. This intolerant law (Athenosus, lib. 13. p. 610. Diogen.Laertins, lib. 5. s. 38. p. 290. Julias Pollux, 9. 5.) was enacted in the same, or thesucceeding year. (Sigonins, Opp. torn. 5. p. 62.Menagius, ad Diogen. Laert. p. 204.Corsini Fasti Attici, torn. ir. p. 67,68.) Theoplirastns, chief of the Peripatetics, anddisciple of Aristotle, was involved in the same exile. u This is no fanciful era; the Pagans reckoned their calamities from the reign oftbeir hero. Proclus, whose nativity is marked by his horoscope, (A. D. 412, Febru­ary 8, at C. P. died one hundred and twenty-four years tcm IotAfarov 0ae-i\toett A. D.485. (Marin, in Vita Procli, c. 36.) . . 0 The life of Proclus, by Marinus, was published by Fabricius. (Hamburgh, 1700.ct ad calcem Bibliot. Latin. Lond. 1703.) See Snidas (torn. 3. p. 185, 186.); Fa-bricius(Bibliot. Grttc lib. 5. c. 26. p. 449—552.), and Brucker. (Hist. Crit. Pliilo-»oph. torn. 2. p. 319—326.) •• ."/