OCR Output CHA1'. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 415 ven, a patriot king, had been confirmed as a proper andpermanent blessing. But in less than four years afterthe death of Justin, his worthy successor sunk into amortal disease, which left him only sufficient time to re­store the diadem, according to the tenure by which heheld it, to the most deserving of his fellow-citizens. Heselected Maurice from the crowd, a judgment more pre­cious than the purple itself: the patriarch and senatewere summoned to the bed of the dying prince; he be­stowed his daughter and the empire; and his last advicewas solemnly delivered by the voice of the quaestor.Tiberius expressed his hope, that the virtues of his sonand successor would erect the noblest mausoleum to hismemory. His memory was embalmed by the publicaffliction; but the most sincere grief evaporates in thetumult of a new reign, and the eyes and acclamationsof mankind were speedily directed to the rising sun. The emperor Maurice derived his origin from ancient The reignRome/ but his immediate parents were settled at Arabis- ^f 582?susinCappadocia,andtheir singular felicity preserved them *ug.alive to behold and partake the fortune of their august son. Nov. 27.The youth of Maurice was spent in the profession ofarms ; Tiberius promoted him to the command of a newand favourite legion of twelve thousand confederates;his valour and conduct were signalized in the Persianwar; and he returned to Constantinople to accept, as hisjust reward, the inheritance of the empire. Mauriceascended the throne at the mature age of forty-threeyears; and he reigned above twenty years over the eastand over himself ;s expelling from his mind the wild de­mocracy of passions, and establishing (according to the 'It is therefore singular enough that Paul (lib. 3. c. 15.) should distinguish himas the first Greek emperor—primus ex Grrecorum genere in imperio oonstitutus.His immediate predecessors had indeed been born in the Latin provinces of Europe;and a various reading, in Graecorum imperio, would appty the expression to the em­pire rather than the prince. * Consult for the character and reign of Maurice, the fifth and sixth books of Eva-grius, particularly lib. 6. c. 1. the eight books of his prolix and florid history byTheo-pbylact Simotatta; Theopbines, P. 213, &c. Zonaias, tom 2. lib. 14. P. 73. Cedrenus,p. 594.