OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 269 beyond the pale of the law, and, secondly, he limited asfar as possible the number of victims and allowed at leastno offensive outbreak of fury against inferior persons. Asimilar moderation appears in the political arrangements.The innovation as respects legislation—the most importantand apparently the most comprehensive—in fact only broughtthe letter of the constitution into harmony with its spirit.The Roman legislation, under which any consul, praetor, ortribune could propose to the burgesses any measure atpleasure and bring it to the vote without debate, had fromthe first been irrational and had become daily more so withthe growing nullity of the comitia; it was only tolerated,because in practice the senate had claimed for itself theprivilege of previous deliberation and regularly crushed anyproposal put to the vote without such previous deliberationby means of the political or religious veto (i. 327). The revo­lution had swept away these barriers; in consequence ofwhich that absurd system now began fully to develop its con­sequences, and to put it in the power of any petulant knaveto overthrow the state in due form of law. What was undersuch circumstances more natural, more necessary, moretruly conservative, than now to recognize formally and ex­pressly the legislation of the senate to which effect had beenhitherto given by a circuitous process? The renewal of theelectoral census was in a somewhat similar position. Theearlier constitution was thoroughly based on it; and thereform of 513, while restricting the privileges of the men of 241.wealth, had rigorously retained the principle of excludingthe burgesses rated below 11,000 sesterces (£113) from anysort of influence on the elections. But since that year therehad occurred an immense financial revolution, which woulditself have justified a nominal raising of the minimum cen­sus. The new timocracy consequently changed the letter ofthe constitution only with a view to remain faithful to itsspirit, while it at the same time in the mildest possible formattempted at least to check the disgraceful bribery with allthe evils therewith connected. Lastly, the regulations infavour of debtors and the resumption of the schemes ofcolonization gave express proof that Sulla, although notdisposed to approve the impetuous proposals of Sulpicius,was yet, like Sulpicius and Drusus and all the more far*^"seeing aristocrats in general, favourable to material reformsin themselves; and withal we may not overlook the circum- *