OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.J OF THE ROMAN E"MPIRE. 463 chagan. In the first fervour of indignation, an order was »"d rebel-signified to the army of the Danube, that they shouldspare the magazines of the province, and establish theirwinter-quarters in the hostile country of the Avars. Themeasure of their grievances was, full: they pronouncedMaurice unworthy to reign, expelled or slaughtered hisfaithful adherents, and, under the command of Phocas,a simple centurion, returned by hasty marches to theneighbourhood of Constantinople. After a long series ™of legal succession, the military disorders of the third a. d. coa, 6 • • i i i i r October. century were again revived; yet such was the novelty otthe enterprise, that the insurgents were awed by their ownrashness. They hesitated to invest their favourite withthe vacant purple ; and while they rejected all treaty withMaurice himself, they held a friendly correspondencewith his son Theodosius, and with Germanus, the father-in-law of the royal youth. So obscure had been the for­mer condition of Phocas, that the emperor was ignorantof the name and character of his rival: but as soon as helearned, that the centurion, though bold in sedition, wastimid in the face of danger, "Alas! (cried the despond­ing prince) if he is a coward, he will surely be a mur­derer." Yet if Constantinople had been firm and faithful, the c'n'unmurderer might have spent his fury against the walls; ,mo»1'-and the rebel army would have been gradually consumedor reconciled by the prudence of the emperor. In thegames of the circus, which he repeated with unusualpomp, Maurice disguised, with smiles of confidence,the anxiety of his heart, condescended to solicit the ap­plause of the factions, and flattered their pride by accept­ing from their respective tribunes a list of nine hundredblues and fifteen hundred greens, whom he affected toesteem as the solid pillars of his throne. Their treache­rous or languid support betrayed his weakness and hast­ened his fall; the green faction were the secret accom­plices of the rebels, and the blues recommended lenity i f