OCR Output 150 AFFAIRS AT ROME. [B. IV. whereupon the commanders promised themselves gloriousthings from this requital Vespasian made to a stranger.Titus was then present with his father, and said,—" O father,it is but just that the scandal [of a prisoner] should be takenoff Josephus together with his iron chain: for if we do notbarely loose his bonds, but cut them to pieces, he will be likea man that hath never been bound at all:" for that is theusual method as to such as have been bound without a cause.This advice was agreed to by Vespasian also; so there camea man in, and cut the chain to pieces, while Josephus re­ceived this testimony of his integrity for a reward, and wasmoreover esteemed a person of credit as to futurities also. CHAPTER XI. TIIAT LTON THE CONQUEST AND SLAUGHTER OF VITELLIUS,VESPASIAN HASTENED HIS JOURNEY TO ROME, BUT TITUSHIS SON RETURNED TO JERUSALEM. § 1. And now when Vespasian had given answers to thoembassages, and had disposed of tho places of power1 justly,and according to every one's deserts, he came to Antioch,and consulting which way he had best take, he preferred togo to Rome, rather than to march to Alexandria, because hesaw that Alexandria was sure to him already, but that theaffairs at Rome were put in disorder by Vitellius; so he sentMucianus to Italy, and committed a considerable army bothof horsemen and footmen to him ; yet was Mucianus afraidof going by sea, because it was the middle of winter, and sohe led his army on foot through Cappadocia and Phrygia. 2. In the mean time Antonius Primus took the third of thelegions that were in Mysia, for he was president of that pro­ 1 This is well observed by Josephus, that Vespasian, in order to secure hissuccess, and establish his government at first, distributed his offices andplaces upon the foot of justice, nnd bestowed them on such as best deservedthem, nnd were best fit for them. Which wise conduct in a mere heathenought to put those rulers nnd ministers of state to shame, who, professingChristianity, act otherwise, and expose themselves nnd their kingdoms tovice and to destruction.