OCR Output UMBRIA. UHBRO 1317 (.worn (Petaro); the I'kimtmiin, noir calledth< Conca; and the Ariminus (Haraxhia), whichgive it* name to the celebrated city of Ariininum,and Menu to hare been regarded by Pliny as thenorthern boundary of Umbria, though that limit wascertainly marked at an earlier period by the far-famed though trifling stream of the Rubicon. Therirer Sapis also flowed through the Umbrian terri­tory in the upper part of its course, and gave nameto Uie Sapinia Tribos, mentioned by I.ivy as one ofthe divisions of the Umbrian nation. All the waters which descend on the W. of theUmbrian Apennines discharge themselves into theTiber. None of them are considerable streams, andtbe TlXIA and Clitumnus are the only two the an­cient names of which have been preserved to us. TheNar, a much more important river, the sources ofwhich are in the Sabine territory, seems to haveformed the boundary between Umbria and the landof the Sabines, through a considerable part of itscourse; but it entered the Umbrian territory nearlnteramna (7enu). and traversed it thence to itsjunction with the Tiber. Two princiful passes crossed the main chain ofthe Apennines within the limits of Umbria, andserved to maintain the communication between thetwo portions of that country. The one of tieae wasfollowed by the main line of the Flamiuian Way,whicii proceeded almost due N. from Forum Flamimi,where il quitted the valley of the Clitumnus, andpassed by Nuceria, Tadinum, and Helvillum, to thecrest of the mountain chain, which it crossed betweenthe last place and Cales (Cagli), and descended bythe narrow ravine of the Kurlo (Intercisa) into thevalley of the Metaurus, which it then followed to theAdriatic at Fano (Fanum Fortunac). This celebratedroad continued throughout the period of tile KomauEmpire to be the main line of communication, not onlyfrom the plains of Umbria to the Adriatic, but fromRome itself to Ariminum and Cisalpine tiaul. Itsmilitary importance is sufficiently apparent in thecivil war between Vitellius and V'espasian. (Tac.But. L 86, iii. 50, 52, etc.) Another line of roadgiven in the Antonine Itinerary, quitted this mainlint at Nuceria, and, turning abruptly to the E.,crossed a\ mountain pass to Prolaqueum (Pioraco),in the valley of the I'otenza, m\& descended thatvalley to Septempeda in Picenum (S. Severing), andthence to Ancona. This pass has been in modemtimes wholly abandoned. The present road fromHome to Ancona turns to the E. from FMjno (Ful-ginium) and crosses the mountain ridge between thatplace and Camerino, descending to TvUntno ia thevalley of the Ckienti (Flusor). The towns of Umbria were numerous, though fewof them were of any great importance. 1. On the W. ofthe Apennines, and beginning with those nearest toHume, were: OcKJCULUM, near the left bank of theTiber; Xarnia and Inteuamna, on the banks oftbe Nar; Amkkia and Carsulak, a few miles tothe Nt. oif Narnia; Tuder, on a hill on the left bankot the Tiber; Spoletium, in the hills which separatetbe valley of the Maroggia from that of the Nar;1 rkb.v, Mevania, Hispkllum, Fuloinium, andAssrsiUM, all situated in or bordering on the broadvalley above mentioned; Arna and Tikkr.ni .m Ti-..is. m in the npper valley of the Tiber, and lou-virx in the mountains at a short distance fromit. Vkjuonica was probably situated at CivittUadi Bene*M»ne, also in the valley of tbe Tiber. Ontiie Flauninian Way, exactly at the entrance of the mountains, stood Forum Flaminii, and higherup, on the same line of road, Nuceria, Tadinum,and Hei.viiJ.uu. 2. On the E. of the central ridge of tbe Apennines,bnt still high up among the mountains, were situatedCamerinum, near the sources of tbe Flusor; 1'ro-lacjikum (Pioraco), near those of the Potentia;Pitulum (fiofo), in the same valley; Matilicaand Attidium, both in the upper valley of theAeais; Sentinum, in a lateral branch of the samevalley; TiincfM and Suasa, both of them in thevalley of the Cesano; Cai.i.ks (Cngli), on the F'la-minlan Way; Tifernum Mktaurknse and Ur-binum Mktaurknse, both of them in the up|«rvalley of the Metaurus; F'oRi'M Sempronh (/'<i»-tombrone), lower down in the same valley; Uhbi-NUM Hohtense (Urbino), between tbe valleys ofthe Metaurus and the Pisaurus; Sestiniim (Sutino),near the sources of the hitter river; Pitinum Pi-saurensk, probably at Piagnino in the same valley;Sarsina, in the upper valley of the Sapis; and Mk-vaniola, which is fixed by Cluvcrins, on the faith ofinscriptions discovered there, at Galeata, in the uppervalley of the Bedesis or Konco (Cluver. flat p. 623),and is therefore the most northerly town that wasincluded in Umbria. 3. Along the coast of the Adriatic were the im­portant towns of Skna Galuca, Fanum Fortukae,Pisaukum, and Ariminum. To the above must beadded Aksis or Aksium (Jen), on the left bank ofthe river uf the same name, and OsTRA, the ruins ofwhich are said to exist between the rivers Cesano andKujolo. (Abeken, Millel-Italien. p. 41.) In addition to the above long list of towns, thoposition of which can be assigned with tolerable cer­tainty, the following obscure names are enumeratedby Pliny among the towns or communities of Umbriastill existing in his time: the Casuentillani. Dola-tes sumained Salentini, Forojulien>ea surnamed Con-cubienses, F'orobrentani, Pelestini, Vindinates, andViventani. The above towns being totally un­known, tbe correct form and orthography of thenames is for the most part uncertain. The sameis the case with several others which the samewriter enumerates as having in his day ceaned toexist. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19.) Strabo also mentionsa place called Larolum as being situated on the Fla-minian Way, in the neighbourhood of Narnia andOcriculum (v. p. 227), which is otherwise whollyunknown, and the name is probably corrupt. Of the natural productions of Umbria the mostcelebrated were its cattle, especially those of the val­ley of the Clitumnus [Clitumnus] ; but iis moun­tain tracts afforded also pasturage Ui flocks of sheep,which were driven southwards as far as Metapontumand Heraclca. (Varr. R. It. ii. 9. § 6.) The lowerportions of the country abounded in fruit-trees, vines,and olives ; but when Propertius terms his nativeUmbria " terns fertilis uberibus." this can be under­stood only of the tracts on the W. of the Apennines,of which he ia there speaking (Pn>pert. i. 22. 9), notof the more extensive mountain regions. The name of Umbria is still given to one of thoprovinces of the Papal States, of which Spvleto isthe capital; but this is merely an official designation,tbe name having been wholly lost in the middleages, and being no longer in use as a popular ap­pellation. [E. H. B.J U.MBRO (Ombrone), a river of Elruria, and nextto the Arnus the most considerable in that country.It ri.*es in the hills between Siena and A rezzo, and 4 r 3