OCR Output 520 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. there:) but in reality to the commanders ofthe army, whom he persuaded to go outagainst Malichus with their daggers. So theywent out, and met him near the city, upon thesea shore, and stabbed him. Hyrcanus wasso astonished that his speech failed him: andwhen, after some difficulty, he had recoveredhimself, he asked Herod, what the mattercould be? and who it was that slew Mali­chus? And when he said, that it was doneby the command of Cassius, he commendedthe action: for that Malichus was a verywicked man, and one that conspired againsthis own country. And this was the punish­ment that was inflicted on Malichus, for whathe wickedly did to Antipater. But when Cassius was marched out of Sy­ria, disturbances arose in Judea: for Felix,who was left at Jerusalem with an army,made a sudden attempt against Phasaelus;and the people themselves rose in arms. ButHerod went to Fabius, the prefect of Damas­cus, and was desirous to run to his brother'sassistance; but was hindered by a distemperthat seized upon him; till Phasaelus by him­self had been too hard for Felix, and hadshut him up in the tower; and there on cer­tain conditions dismissed him. Phasaelusalso complained of Hyrcanus; that althoughhe had received many benefits from them, yetdid he support their enemies. For Malichus'sbrother had caused many places to revolt, andkept garrisons in them: and particularly Mas-sada, the strongest fortress of them all. Inthe mean time Herod recovered of his disease,and came, and took from Felix all the placeshe had gotten; and, upon certain conditions,dismissed him also. CHAP. XII. HEROD EJECTS ANTIGONUS, THE SON OF ARISTOBULUS, OUTOF JUDEX; AND GAINS THE FRIENDSHIP OF ANTONY, BYSENDING HIM MUCH MONEY. ANTONY WRITES TO THETYRIANS ON BEHALF OF THE JEWS. OW *Ptolemy, the son of Menneus,brought back into Judea Antigonus, N the son of Aristobulus; who had alreadyraised an army, and had, by money, madeFabius his friend; and this because he wasof kin to him. Marion also gave him assist­ance. He had been left by Cassius to tyran­nize over Tyre; for this Cassius was a manthat seized on Syria, and then kept it under,in the way of a tyrant. Marion also marchedinto Galilee, which lay in his neighbourhood,and took three of its fortresses, and put gar­risons into them, to keep them. But whenHerod came, he took all from him. But theTyrian garrison he dismissed in a very civilmanner; nay, to some of the soldiers he madepresents, out of his good will to that city.When he had despatched these affairs, andwas gone to meet Antigonus, he joined battlewith nim, and defeated him; and drove himout of Judea, when he was just come to itsborders. But when he was come to Jerusa­lem, Hyrcanus and the people put garlandsabout his head. For he had already con­tracted an affinity with the family of Hyrca­nus, by having espoused a descendant of his;and for that reason Herod took the greatercare of him: as being to marry the daughterof Alexander, the son of Aristobulus, and thegrand-daughter of Hyrcanus: by which wifehe became the father of three male, and twofemale children. He had also married beforethis another wife, out of a lower family of hisown nation; whose name was Doris: bywhom he had his eldest son Antipater. Now Antonius and Cresar had beaten Cas­sius near Philippi; as others have related.But after the victory Caesar went into tGaul;and Antony marched for Asia. When hewas arrived at Bithynia, he had ambassadorsthat met him from all parts. The principalmen also of the Jews came thither, to accusePhasaelus and Herod: and they said, thatHyrcanus had indeed the appearance oireigning, but that these men had all thepower. But Antony paid great respect toHerod, who was come to him to make hisdefence against his accusers. On which ac­ * In this and the following chapters, the reader willeasily remark, how truly Gronovius observes, in his noteson the Roman decrees in favour of the Jews, that theirrights and privileges were commonly purchased of theRomans with money. Many examples of this sort, bothas to the Romans, and others in authority, will occur inour Josephus, both now and hereafter; and need not be taken particular notice of on the several occasions inthese notes. Accordingly the chief captain confesses toSt. Paul, that "with a great sum he had obtained his free­dom," Acts Kii. 28. As had St. Paul's ancestors, veryprobably, purchased the like freedom, for their family, bymoney; as the same author justly conclude* also. t For TaXXiaf, or Gaul, the Roman historians, and Jo-