OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 187 had disdained the fairest offers of ambition and re- chap.venge, should stoop to the murder of his prince, XXXVL"whom he could not long expect to survive. Hisfollowers were impatient to fly; but flight must havebeen supported by rebellion, and he had lived enoughfor nature and for glory. Belisarius appeared before a. d. 563,the council with less fear than indignation: afterDec"5"forty years' service, the emperor had prejudged hisguilt; and injustice was sanctified by the presenceand authority of the patriarch. The life of Beli­sarius was graciously spared; but his fortunes weresequestered, and from December to July, he wasguarded as a prisoner in his own palace. At length a.d.564,his innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and uyhonours were restored; and death, which might behastened by resentment and grief, removed him fromthe world about eight months after his deliverance, a. d. 565,The name of Belisarius can never die: but insteadof the funeral, the monuments, the statues, so justlydue to his memory, I only read, that his treasures,the spoils of the Goths and Vandals, were imme­diately confiscated by the emperor. Some decentportion was reserved, however, for the use of hiswidow; and as Antonina had much to repent, she de­voted the last remains of her life and fortune to thefoundation of a convent. Such is the simple andgenuine narrative of the fall of Belisarius and the in­gratitude of Justinian*. That he was deprived ofhis eyes, and reduced by envy to beg his bread, " Give"a penny to Belisarius the general!" is a fiction oflater times f, which has obtained credit, or rather • Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record ispreserved in the fragment of John Molala (tom. ii. p. 234—243), and the exactChronicle of Theophanes (p. 194—204). Cedrenus (Compend. p. 387, 388)and Zonaras (tom. ii. 1. xiv. p. 69) seem to hesitate between the obsolete truthand the growing falsehood. "f The source of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work ofthe xiith century, the Chiliads of John Tzetzes, a monk (Basil, 1546, ad calcemLycophront, Colon. Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet. Oraec.). He relates the