OCR Output BOHA. 801 ROMA. trxtiaa the bases of these columns were discoveredartiy in their original situation. Bnt it is doubtful• :.'titr the fragments of columns of gray granitevm ms there belonged to the interior of the basi-ra; it is more probable that it had columns of*t/lo tmtico and paonezzato, remains of which have■ra farad (Nibby, For. Trajano, p. 353). Thepaved with slabs of the same marbles. Itfrom the authority of two passages into have had a bronze roof (v. 12, x. 5).- tie aide which faced the forum were three mag-a large one in the middle and twoaide, decorated with columns, as may bounded on its two sides by porticoese of the ba- space with double columns. In the NW. side BASIMCA I'U'IA. - the XW. aide of the basilica stood, and still•6a, lk*CoumopTRUAIt,th< finest monumentm kiad in the world. This column was intendedmm mm two purposes: to serve as a sepulchre foramy and to indicate by its height the depth ofexcavated in order to make room for the forumili buildings. The latter object is expressed by^arriptian, which runs as follows :— • datt's . popvlv&qve . homanvs .■p. caesaki . divi . nervae . f. nervaevbaianu . avo. germ, hacico . pontif.uxw . tub. pot. xvii. imp. vi. cos. vi. p. p.( . uccuiluidva . qvantae . altitvmnisi : . locvb . tant[is . operi]bvs . sit[egestvs. - Vi. t./>i'r. 13; Dion Cass. Ixviii. 16). Thei-S of the column, including the pedestal, is 127 \a»a fact. The diameter at the base is betweenad 13 feet, and rather more than a foot less atam. The shaft consists of 19 cylindrical piecessese Barbie, in which steps are cut for ascendingOn the top was a statue of Trajan,by that of St. Peter, erected by PopeV. When the tomb beneath was opened by thepovtixf. in 1585, it was discovered to be empty.-4 the culnmn runs a spiral band of admirable«, representing the wars of Trajan against De­al aad containing no fewer than 2500 humane*. The height of the reliefs at the bottom is>" nearly double that size at thedang »way with the natural effect ofthe figures to the spectatorthroughout. The best descriptionsa mnrbrent colamn will be found in Klibretti. Rome, 1690, with plates by■aatali; Piranesi, Trofto, o tin mag-Coeiide. ifc., with large folio drawings;Truj •■ ' daignata.>d in an open space of no greatfeet kog and 56 brood. This COLUMN OF TRAJAN. silica,* on either side of the column, were two libra­ries, the Bibliotheca (jraeca ami Latina, asindicated by Sidonius:— "Cum meis poni statuam perennemNarva Trajanus titulis vidcretInter auctores utriugque fixam Bibliothecae."—(ix. Epigr. 16.) * It is remarkable, however, that the library iscalled by A. Gellius, "Bibliotheca tcmpli Trajani"(xi. 17). 3 F