OCR Output 408 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. a more recent settlement than some one previouslyexisting in tlie same neighbourhood; and that thisdid not refer merely to I he parent city of Cumae, isproved by the fact that we find mention (thoughonly at a comparatively late period) of a place calledPaIAEPOMS or "the Old City." (Liv. viii. 22.)lint the relations between the two are very obscure.No Greek author mentions PaUepolis, of the existenceof which we should be ignorant were it not for Livy,who tells us that it was not far from the site of Nea-polis. From the passage of Strabo above cited, itseems clear that this was the original settlementof the Cumaean colonists; and that the name ofNeapolts was given to the later colony of Chalci-dtans and others who established themselves on a siteat no great distance from the former one. A dif­ferent version of its history, but of much moredubious authority, is cited by Philargyrius fromthe historian J,utatius, according to which the Cu-maeans abandoned their first COioDT from an apprc-hension lest it should eclipse the parent city, but werecommanded by an oracle to restore it, and gave tothe colony thus founded anew the name of Neapotis.(Philargyr. ad Georg, iv. 564.) The original nameof Pataeuolis (which obviously could not be so de-signuted until after the foundation of the new city)appears to have been Parthenope (1'lin. hi. 5. s. 9;Philariryr. I.e.}, a name wliich is used by the Iiomanpoets as a poetical appellation of Neapolis. (Virg.Georg. iv. 564; Ovid, Met. xv. 711, &c.) Sle-phanua, of Byzantium notices Parthenope as a cityof Opicia (the ancient designation of Campania);but it is singular enough that both he and Strabocall it a colony of the Rhodians, without mentioningeither the Chaleidians or Cumaeans. (Steph. II.s. v.; Strab. xiv. p. G54.) On the other hand, Ly-cophroii alludes to the place where the Siren Par­thenope was cast on shore, by the name of Fulcrum(4»aA7)pou TVpffts, Lycophr. Ait*. 717); and Ste­phanos also says that Phalernm was a city ofOpicia, the fame which was afterwards called Nea-polis. (Stcidi. B. s. v. 4>a\r,poi:) The name ofFalernm has a Tyrrhenian or Pelasgie aspect; andit is not improbable, as suggested by Abeken (Mtt-Ul /fatten, p. 110), that there was originally a Tyr­rhenian settlement on the spot. The legendaryconnection of the Siren Parthenope with the site orneighbourhood of Neapolis was well established, anduniversally received; hence hionvsius designates thecity as the abode of Parthenope; and Strabo tells usthat even in his time her tomb was still shownthere, and games eelehrated in her honour. (Strab.v. p. 246; Dionys. Per. 358; Eustath. ad loc.\I'lin. iii. 5. s. 9.) The site of the original settlement, or Old City(Palaepolis), is nowhere indicated, but it seems mostprobable that it stood on the hill of Pausilypui orJ'usilijut, a long ridge of moderate elevation, whichseparates the bay of Pozzuoli or Baiae from that ofNaples itself. The new town, on the contrary, ad­joined the river Setiethus, a small stream still calledthe Sthcto, and must, therefore, have occupied thetame site with the more easterly portion of themodern city of NapUi, (Abeken, Mitiel Italien,p. Ill; Niebuhr, vol. iii. p. 179.) The latter cityseems rapidly to have risen to great prosperity, and,in great measure, eclipsed the older settlement; but jit is clear from Livy that PaUepolis continued tosubsist by the side of the new colony, until they bothfell under the dominion of the Samnites. It does notappt-ar that either the old or the new city was reduced by force of arms by the Campnnian conqoerors-. tbejscorn rather to have entered into a compromise willthem, and admitted a body of the Campanula ■the rights of citizenship, as well as to a shire J'.tagovernment. (Strab. v. p. 246.) But notwiuVstanding tins, the Greek element still greatly pe>dominated; and both Palaepolis and Neapulis «*r*,according to Livy, completely Greek cities at tattime when they first came into contact with i; ■nearly a century after the conquest of Campania Ithe Sanmites. (Liv. viii. 22.) On that occasion the Pal aepoli tans, who had baithe temerity to provoke the hostility of Kome byis>cursions uj>on the neighbouring Campanians.alMWS1at the declaration of war which followed (a.c.3iftXadmitted within their walls a garrison of 2001trooj* from Nola, and 40<)O Sammies; andthus enabled to withstand the arms of the coastsPublUius Philo, who occupied a post between tb« tatcities so as to prevent all communication betwthem, while he laid regular siege to FalaepiThis was protracted into the following year; bolt*length the Palaepolitans became weary of their?nite allies, and the city was betrayed into the 1of the Romans by Charilaus and Nymphius,the chief citizens." (Liv. viii. 22, 23. 25, 26.)Neapolitans would appear to have fuiluwed their enample without offerjng any resistance; and thisetjcumstanee may explain the fact that while Put!celebrated a triumph over the Palaepolitam Iviii. 26; Fast. Capit.), the Neapolitans were adoto peace on favourable terms, and their tintsecured by a treaty (foedus St ajxtlitan um. Lir.lvFrom this time all mention of Palaepolis dufrom history. Livy tells us tliat the chief anwhich appears to have been previously enjcthe older city, was now transferred to Xcapubs; Iit is probable that the former town sankinto insignificance, while the community or'lus" was merged in that of Neapolis. Socwas this the case, that Dionysius, in relating the*mencement of this very war, speaks only of the Mipolitans (Dionys. Arc. Leg. pp. 2314—2319);^fLivy, evidently following the language of the «■annalists, distinguishes them from the Palaepoiiaflthough he expressly tells us that they formed.*one community (•' duabus urbibus populus idealbitabat," Liv. viii. 22). From this time Ncapolis became, in fact, tidependency of Rome, though retaining theable title of an allied state (futdtrata ciritaMfi)enjoying the protection of the powerfulwith but a small share of the burdens usually!upon its dependent allies. So favourable,was the condition of the Neapolitans under Itreaty that, at a later period, when ail tbe <Italy obtained the Iioman franchise, they, as wsthe Heracleans, were long unwilling to aocefS] (proffered boon. (Cic. pro Balb. 8,24.) Hence itwonder that they continued throughout faithful tiRoman alliance, though more than one* threatby hostile armies. In B. c. 260, Pyrrtius .11 \ ttmthe walls of Neapolis, with the view of mainsaj Jjself master of the city, but withdrew without)complishing his purpose (Zonar. viii. 4); ata]the Second Punic War. Hannibal, thoughpeatedry ravaged its territory, was deterredstrength of its fortifications from aasaUinitself. (Liv. ixiii. 1, 14, 15, xxiv. la)other maritime allies of Home, the Neapolictinned to furnish ships and sailors for the