OCR Output 64 S I E 6 K 0 F T A K I C H E M. [c. III. bo on greater motives than those of the Jews; for althoughthey run the hazard of war for liberty and for their country,yet what can be a greater motive to us than glory? and thatit may never be said, that after wo have got dominion of thehabitable earth, the Jews are able to confront us. We mustalso reflect upon this, that there is no fear of our sufferingany incurable disaster in the present case; for those that areready to assist us are many, and at hand also: yet is it inour power to seize upon this victory ourselves, and I think weought to prevent the coming of those my father is sending tous for our assistance, that our success may be peculiar toourselves, and of greater reputation to us. And I cannotbut think this an opportunity wherein my father, and I, andyou shall be all put to the trial, whether he be worthy of hisformer glorious performances, whether I be his son in reality,and whether you be really my soldiers; for it is usual for myfather to conquer; and for myself, I should not bear thethoughts of returning to him if I were once taken by theenemy. And how will you be able to avoid being ashamed,if you do not show equal courage with your commander,when he goes before you into danger ? for you know very wellthat I shall go into the danger first, and make the first attackupon the enemy. Do not you, therefore, desert me, but per­suade yourselves that God will be assisting to my onset.Know this also before we begin, that we shall now havebetter success than we should have, if we were to fight at adistance." 3. As Titus was saying this, an extraordinary fury fellupon the men; and as Trajan was already come before thefight began, with four hundred horsemen, they were uneasyat it, because the reputation of the victory would be dimin­ished by being common to so many. Vespasian had also sentboth Antonius and Silo, with two thousand archers, and hadgiven it them in charge to seize upon the mountain that wasover against the city, and repel those that were upon thewall; which archers did as they were commanded, and pre­vented those that attempted to assist them that way. Andnow Titus made his own horse march first against the enemy,