OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 345 without a touch of irony, saluted the youth on his returnfrom these easy exploits as the " Great." In the East also, after the embarkation of Sulla in the Fresh dif-spring of 671, there had been no cessation of warfare. The Acuities [88restoration of the old state of things and the subjugation of wl, ,Mlth"the several towns cost in Asia as in Italy various bloodystruggles. Against the free city of Mytilene in particularLucius Lucullus was obliged at length to bring up troops,after having exhausted all gentler measures ; and even a vic­tory in the open field was far from putting an end to theobstinate resistance of the citizens. Meanwhile the Roman governor of Asia, Lucius Murena,bad fallen into fresh difficulties with king Mithradates. Thelatter had since the peace busied himself in strengtheninganew his dominion, which was shaken even in the northernprovinces; he had pacified the Colchians by appointing hisable son Mithradates as their governor; he had then madeaway with that son, and was now preparing for an expeditioninto his Bosporau kingdom. The assertion of Archelaus whohad meanwhile been obliged to seek an asylum with Murena(P. 309), that these preparations were directed against Rome,induced Murena, under the pretext that Mithradates stillkept possession of Cappadocian frontier districts, to movehis troops towards the Cappadocian Comana and to violatethe Pontic frontier (671). Mithradates contented himself 83.with complaining to Murena and, when that was in vain, tothe Roman government. In fact commissioners from Sullamade their appearance to dissuade the governor, but he didnot submit; on the contrary he crossed the Halys andentered on the undisputed territory of Pontus, whereuponMithradates resolved to repel force by force. His generalGordius had to detain the Roman army till the king cameup with far superior forces and compelled battle; Murenawas vanquished and with great loss driven back over theRoman frontier to Phrygia, and the Roman garrisons wereexpelled from all Cappadocia. Murena had the effrontery,no doubt, to call himself the victor and to assume the titleof imperator on. account of these events (672); but the 82.sharp lesson and a second admonition from Sulla inducedhim at last to push the matter no further; the peace Secondbetween Rome and Mithradates was renewed (673). eac^i This foolish feud, while it lasted, had postponed the re- Capture ofduction of the Mytileneans; it was only after a long siege Mytilene.