OCR Output 420 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. beaten Darius in battle; so he distributedmany of them into garrisons; and at Alexan­dria gave them equal privileges of citizenswith the Macedonians* themselves: and re­quired of them to take their oaths, that they"would keep their fidelity to the posterity ofthose who committed these places to theircare. Nay there were not a few other Jews,who, of their own accord, went into Egypt:as invited by the goodness of the soil, and bythe liberality of Ptolemy. However, therewere disorders among their posterity, withrelation to the Samaritans; on account oftheir resolution to preserve that conduct oflife which was delivered to them by theirforefathers: and they thereupon contendedone with another: while those of Jerusalemsaid, that their temple was holy; and resolvedto send their sacrifices thither: but the Sa­maritans were resolved that they should besent to mount Gerizzim. CHAP. II. Or THE TRANSLATION OF THE LAWS OF THE JEWS INTOTHE CREEK TONGUE, BY ORDER OF PTOLEMY PHILADEL­PHIA; WHO SET MANY CAPTIVES FREE; AND DEDICATEDMANY GIFTS TO COD. WHEN Alexander had reigned ftwelveyears, and after him Ptolemy Soterforty years, Philadelphus took the kingdomof Egypt, and held it forty years within one.He procured the Jlaw to be interpreted: andliberated those that were come from Jerusa­lem into Egypt, and were in slavery there:who were a hundred and twenty thousand.The occasion was this: Demetrius Phalerius,library keeper to the king, was now endea­vouring, if it were possible, to gather toge­ther all the books that were in the habitableearth; and buying whatsoever was any wherevaluable or agreeable to the king's inclina­tion; (who was very earnestly set upon col­lecting of books:) to which inclination of his,Demetrius was zealously subservient. Andwhen once Ptolemy asked him how manythousands of books he had collected, he re- plied, that he had already about two hundredthousand; but that, in a little time, he shouldhave five hundred thousand. But he said hehad been informed that there were manybooks of laws among the Jews, worthy ofinquiring after, and worthy of the king's li­brary; but which being written in charactersand in a dialect of their own, would causeno small difficulty in getting them translatedinto the Greek tongue: that the character inwhich they were written seemed like to thatof the Syrians; and that its sound, when pro­nounced, appeared to be peculiar to them­selves. Wherefore he said, that nothing hin­dered why they might not get those books tobe translated also. "For," said he, "whilenothing is wanting that is necessary for that fmrpose, we may have their books also in thisibrary." So the king thought Demetrius wasvery zealous to procure him abundance ofbooks, and that he suggested what was ex­ceeding proper for him to do: and accord­ingly, he wrote to the Jewish high-priest,that he should act accordingly. Now there was one Aristeus, who wasamong the king's most intimate friends, andon account of his modesty very acceptable tohim. This Aristeus had frequently resolvedto petition the king, that he would set all thecaptive Jews in this kingdom free. And hethought this to be a convenient opportunityfor making that petition. So he discoursedin the first place with the captains of theking's guards, Sosibius of Tarentum, and An­dreas; and persuaded them to assist him inwhat he was going to intercede with the kingfor. Accordingly Aristeus embraced the sameopinion with those that have been before-mentioned; and went to the king, and madethe following speech to him: "It is not fit forus, O king, to overlook things hastily, or todeceive ourselves; but to lay the truth open.For since we have determined not only to getthe laws of the Jews transcribed, but inter­preted also, for thy satisfaction; by whatmeans can we do this, while so many of the * See this fully proved, Book XIV. chap. 10. t These numbers; 12 years for Alexander; 40 forPtolemy the son of Lagus; and 39 for Ptolemy Phila­delphus, are very nearly the same which Ptolemy's canonascribes to them respectively. J Of the translation of the other parts of the Old Tes­tament by seventy Egyptian Jews, in the joint reigns ofPtolemy the son of Lagus, and Philadelphus; as also of the translation of the Pentateuch by seventy-two Jemsalem Jews, in the seventh year of Philadelphus, atAlexandria; has given us an account of by Aristeus, andthence by Philo and Josephus; with a vindication ofAristeus's history, see the Appendix to the Literal Ac­complishment of the Prophecies at large, page 117—15*.which has hitherto received no confutation.