OCR Output an. 1620.] 63 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW& plained on what account it was that they leftEgypt. CHAP. IX. OF THE AFFLICTIONS THAT BEFEL THE HEBREWS IN EGYPT,DURING FOUR HONORED YEARS..* NOW it happened that the Egyptiansgrew delicate and indolent, and gavethemselves up to pleasure, and in particularto the love of gain. They also became veryill affected towards the Hebrews, as touchedwith envy at their prosperity; for when theysaw how the nation of the Israelites flourished,and were become eminent already in plentyof wealth, which they had acquired by theirvirtue and natural love of labour, they thoughttheir increase was to their own detriment;and having in length of time forgotten thebenefits they had received from Joseph, par­ticularly the crown being now come intoanother family,t they became very abusive tothe Israelites, and contrived many ways ofafflicting them, for they enjoined them to cuta great number of channels for the river, andto build wallsJ for their cities and ramparts,that they might restrain the river, and hinderits waters from stagnating, upon its runningover its own banks; they set them also tobuild pyramids,|| and by all this wore themout, and forced them to learn all sorts of me­chanical arts, and to accustom themselves to * As to the affliction of Abraham's posterity for 400years, see I. 10. and as to what cities they built in Egyptunder Pharaoh Sesostris, and of Pharaoh Sesostris's drown­ing in the Red Sea, see Essay on the Old Test . Append.page 139—162. t Exodus, i. 8. J It is a common opinion, that the word pyramid is de­rived from the Greek Pyr or Pur, Fire; and that thesestructures were so called from their shape, which ascendedfrom abroad basis, and ended in a point, like a flame offire. Others, whose opinion Vossius seems to approve,say that the name comes from the word Pyroi, which, inthe same language, signifies wheat, because they supposethem to have been the granaries of the ancient Egyptiankings. But a late writer, versed in the Coptic tongue, hasgiven us another etymology from that language, whereinPouro signifies a king, and Misi, a race, or generation; andthe reason why the Pyramids had this name given them,was, as he tells us, because they were erected to preservethe memory of the .princes (who were their founders) andtheir families. . WiUdtui's Dxssert. de ling. Copt. p. 108. II Of this building of the pyramids of Egypt by theIsraelites, see Perizonius Orig. Egyptiac. c. 21. It is notimpossible they might build one or more of the small ones,but the large ones seem much later. See my Chronolo- TOL. I. No. 6. hard labour: and four hundred years did theyspend under these afflictions, for they stroveone against another which should get themastery; the Egyptians desiring to destroythe Israelites by these labours, and the Israel­ites desiring to hold out to the end underthem. While the affairs of the Hebrews were inthis condition, there was this occasion offereditself to the Egyptians, which made themmore solicitous for the extinction of our na­tion. One of these sacred scribes,§ who arevery sagacious in foretelling future eventstruly, told the king, that about this time achild would be born to the Israelites; who, ifhe were reared, would bring the Egyptiandominion low, and would raise the Israelites;that he would excel all men in virtue, andobtain a glory that would be rememberedthrough all ages; which thing was so fearedby the king, that, according to this man'sopinion, he commanded that every male child,which was born to the Israelites, should becast into the river, and destroyed; that be­sides this, the Egyptian** midwives shouldwatch the labours oi the Hebrew women, andobserve what was born; for those were thewomen who were enjoined to do the office ofmidwives to them, and by reason of their re­lation to the king would not transgress hiscommands.tt He enjoined, also, that if anyparents should disobey him, and venture to gical Table, and Authent. Rec. Part II. page 885, 886,887. Only if they be all built of stone, this does not sowell agree with the Israelites' labours, which are said tohave been in brick, and not in stone, as Mr. Sandys ob­serves in his Travels, page 127, 128. § Dr. Bernard informs us here, that instead of this singlepriest, or prophet of the Egyptians, without a name inJosephus, the Targum of Jonathan names the two famousantagonists of Moses, Jannes and Jambres. Nor is it at allunlikely, that it might be one of these who foreboded somuch misery to the Egyptians, and so much happiness tothe Israelites, from the rearing of Moses. ** Josephus is clear that these midwives were Egyp­tians, and not Israelites, as in our other copies, which isvery probable, it being not easily to be supposed that Pha­raoh could trust the Israelite midwives to execute so bar­barous a command against their own nation. Consult,therefore, and correct hence our ordinary copies, Exod.i. 15—22; and, indeed, Josephus seems to have had muchcompleter copies of the Pentateuch, or other authenticrecords now lost, about the birth and actions of Moses, thaneither our Hebrew, Samaritan, or Greek Bibles afford us,which enabled him to speak so largely and particularlyabout him. tt It is generally supposed that the midwives upon this R