OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117 he vainly tried to interrogate, or to appease the fates, by magic ce­remonies, and unlawful sacrifices '*. Severus, who dreaded neither his arms nor his enchantments, Is deserted byguarded himself from the only danger of secret conspiracy, by the ans,faithful attendance of fix hundred chosen men, who never quittedhis person or their cuirasses, either by night or by day, duringthe whole march. Advancing with a steady and rapid course,he passed, without difficulty, the defiles of the Apennine, receivedinto his party the troops and ambassadors sent to retard his progress>and made a short halt at Interamnia about seventy miles fromRome. His victory was already secure; but the despair of thePrætorians might have rendered it bloody; and Severus had thelaudable ambition of ascending the throne without drawing thesword '5. His emissaries, dispersed in the capital, assured theguards, that provided they would abandon their worthless prince,and the perpetrators of the murder of Pertinax, to the justice of theconqueror, he would no longer consider that melancholy eventas the act of the whole body. The faithless Prætorians, whose re^sistance was supported only by sullen obstinacy, gladly compliedwith the easy conditions, seized the greatest part of the assassins,and signified to the senate, that they no longer defended the causeof Julian. That assembly, convoked by the consul, unanimouslyacknowledged Severus as lawful emperor, decreed divine honours toPertinax, and pronounced a sentence of deposition and death against his unfortunate successor. Julian was conducted into a private apart- and con­demned and ment of the baths of the palace, and beheaded as a common criminal, executed by-after having purchased, with an immense treasure, an anxious and senate? ''precarious reign of only sixty six days'6. The almost incredible June's!*expedition of Severus, who, in so short a space of time, conducteda numerous army from the banks of the Danube to those of theTyber, proves at once the plenty of provisions produced by agri-6 culture.