OCR Output xliv On his Qualifications as a Historian. principles, and avers him a tight and sound royalist. Heis sure, that he least of all liked the democracy; as sure,he was not at all fond of an oligarchy. He founds this as­surance on a passage in the eighth book—" They decreed" the supreme power, to be vested in the Jive thousand, which" number to consist of all such citizens as were enrolled for" the heavy armour, and that no one should receive a" salary."—Thucydides just after pronounceth this, in hisown opinion, " a good modelling of their government, a" fine temper between the few and the many, and which" enabled Athens from the low state into which her affairs" were plunged to re-erect her head." If this passage provesany thing of the author's principles, it certainly proves themin a pretty strong degree republican. Mr. Hobbes howeversets out from hence to prove him a royalist. " For (says he)" he commendeth the government of Athens more, both" when Pisistratus reigned (saving that it was an usurped" power), and when in the beginning of this war it was de-" mocratical in name, but in effect monarchical under Pe-" ricles." He praiseth, it is true, the administration at boththese periods ; and he also praiseth the good effects resultingfrom an administration lodged in the hands of five thousandmen. Under Pericles it was lodged in more, but the extra­ordinary abilities and influence of the man had taught alltheir voices to follow the dictates of his heart. Yet, Pericleswas all the time a strong republican, and owned his masters.Plutarch says, he never harangued them without prayingbeforehand, that, " not a word might slip out of his mouth," that was not pertinent to the business in hand;" and thathe never put on his armour to lead them out into the fieldwithout saying to himself—" Remember, Pericles, you are" going to command free men and Grecians." I leave it tothe reader, whether the principles of Thucydides can thus bediscovered. It appears only, that he was always candid toa good administration, and might possibly think of govern­ment, as Mr. Pope hath wrote :