OCR Output JAXARTES. JAZYGES. 7 thians (pp. 514, 517), the principal tribes of whichwere the Sacae, Dahae, and Massagetae, and adds(p. 518) that its "embouchure " was, according toPatrocles, 80 parasangs from the mouth of the Oxus.Pliny (vi. 18) says that the Scythians called it"Silis," probably a form of the name Syr, which itnow bears, and that Alexander and his soldiersthought that it was the Tanals. It has been conjee-tared that the Alani, in whose language the word tan(Tan-als, Dan, Don) signified a river, may havebrought this appellative first to the E., and then tothe W. of the Aralo-Caspian basin, in their migra­tions, and thus hare contributed to confirm an errorso flattering to the vanity of the Macedonian con­querors. (<4«'« Centrale, vol. ii. pp. 254, 291;eomp, Schafarik, Slav. Alt vol. i. p. 500.) Pom no­nius Mela (iii. 5. § 6) merely states that it wateredthe vast countries of Scythia and Sogdiana, and dis­charged itself into that E. portion of the Caspianwhich was called Scythicns Sinus. Arrian, in recounting the capture of Cyropolis(Anab. iv. 3. § 4), has mentioned the curious fact,that the Macedonian army entered the town by thedried-up bed of the river; these desiccations aresat rare in the sandy steppes of Central Asia, — asfor instance, in the sadden drying up of one of thearms of the Jaxartes, known under the name ofTanghi-Daria, the account of which was firstbrought to Europe in 1820. (Comp. Journ. Geog.Soc. vol. xiv. pp. 333—335.) Ptolemy (vi. 12. § 1) has fixed mathematicallythe sources, as well as the "embouchure," of theJ.ixartes. According to him the river rises in lat.43° and long. 125°, in the mountain district of theComkdi (,v iptivi) Kouinowi', § 3: Muz-TdgK), andthrows itself into the Caspian in lat. 48° and longt97°, carrying with it the waters of many affluents,the principal of which are called, the one Bascatis(BoffKori j, § 3), and the other Demus (Aijpos, § .'!)■Me describes it as watering three countries, that ofthe '■ Sacae," " Sogdiana," and "Scythia intra Imaum."In the first of these, upon its right bank, were foundthe Comari (Kofxapoi) and Cakatak (Kaparai,vi. 13. § 3); in the second, on the left bank, theAxikses ('ArKo-fij) and Drkpsiaki (Afit^i-afQiX who extended to the Oxus, the Tacmoki(Taxopoi). and Iatii ('Ich-iw, vi. 12. § 4); inScythia, on the N. bank of the Syr, lived the Jax-artak ('lojofrreu), a numerous people (vi. 14. §10). and near the " embouchure," the Ariacab('Aatdjrcu, vi. 14. § 13). Ammianus MarcelUnus(xxiii. 6. § 59), describing Central Asia, in theupper course of the Jaxartes which falls into the<Ja«|'ian, speaks of two rivers, the Araxatks andDvmas (probably the Demus of I'tolemy), " qui perjuea vallesqne praecipites in campestrem planitiemdecurrentea Oxiam nomine paludem efHciunt longebtteque diffusam." This is the first intimation,though very vague, as to the formation of the Sea ofAmi, and requires a more detailed examination.f_OnA Paws.] The obscure Geographer of Ravenna, who lived, ash is believed, about the 7th century a. o., mentionsthe river Jaxartes in describing Hyrcania. Those who wish to study the accounts given bymediaeval and modem travellers, will find much va­luable information in the " Dissertation on the RiverJixartes" annexed to Levchine, Horde* et Steppead-j Kirghiz-Koxika, Paris, 1840. This same writer(pp 53—:70) has described the course of the Syr-Daria, which baa its source in the mountains of Kachkar-Davan, a branch of the range called by theChinese the "Mountains of Heaven," and, taking aNW. course through the sandy steppes of Kizil-Kmim and Kara-Koum, unites its waters with thoseof the Sea of Aral, on its E. shores, at the gulf ofKamechlou-Bachi. [E. B. J.] JAXAMATAE ('Iofaudrai. 'Ia£a/jaT<u, 'IJnuo-tcu, Ixomatae, Aram. Marc xxii. 8. § 31; Exo-matae, Val. Flacc Argonaut, vi. 144, 5C9) a peoplewho first appear in history during the reign of Saty-rns III., king of Bosporus, who waged war with Tir-gatao, their queen. (Polyacn. viii. 55.) The ancientsattribute them to the Sarmatian stock. (Scymn. Fr.p. 140; Anon. Peripl. Eux. p. 2.) Pomponius Mela(i. 19. § 17) states that they were distinguished bythe peculiarity of the women being as tried warriorsas the men. Ptolemy (v. 9) has placed them betweenthe Bon and Volga, which agrees well with the po­sition assigned to them by the authors mentionedabove. In the second century of our era they disap­pear from history. Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p.340), who considers the Sarmatians to belong tothe Median stock, connects them with the Medianword " mat" = " people," as in the termination Sau-romatac; but it is more probable that the Sarmatianswere Slavonians. [E. B. J.] JA'ZYGES, IA'ZYGES ('IaC^er, Steph. B.Iazyx), a people belonging to the Sarmatian stock,whose original settlements were on the I'alusMaeotis. (Ptol. iii. 5. § 19; Strab. vii. p. 306;Arrian, Anah. 1,3; Amm. Marc. xxii. 8. § 31.)They were among the barbarian tribes armed byMil hriil.it i-s (Appian, Mithr. 69); during the ba­nishment of Ovid they were found on the Danube,and in Bessarabia and Waliachia (Ep. ex Ponti. 2, 79. iv. 7, 9, Tritt. ii. 19. 1.) In A. D. 50,either induced by the rich pastures of Hungary,or forced onwards from other causes, they no longerappear in their ancient seats, but in the plains be­tween the Lower Theiss and the mountains of Tran­sylvania, from which they had driven out theDacians. (Tac. Attn. xii. 29; Plin. iv. 12.) Thismigration, probably, did not extend to the whole ofthe tribe, as is implied in the surname " Metanastae;"henceforward history speaks of the Iazvces Mkta-5ASTAK ('ld£vyts oi Ktrai'dffrai'), who were theSarmatians with whom the Romans so frequentlycame in collision. (Comp. Gibbon, c. xviii.) In thesecond century of our era, Ptolemy (iii. 7) assignsthe Danube, the Theiss, and the Carpathians us thelimits of this warlike tribe, and enumerates thefollowing towns as belonging to them: — Uscesum(OfoKiyovy, Bormamuu or Gdrmasum (Bop/uuw,at. Tippavov); Abieta or Akinta ('ASfnro, nl."ASicTa); TuissuM (Tpicrffoi'); C-andam im (Kar-tiror); 1'arca (Ilapxa); Peksium (Mooioy); andPaktisltm (napTio-Kor). These towns were, itwould seem, constructed not by the Iazyges them­selves, who lived in tents and waggons, hut by theformer Slave inhabitants of Hungary; and this sup­position is confirmed by the fact that the names arepartly Keltic and partly Slavish. Mannert andKeichard (Forbiger, vol. iii. p. 1111) have guessedat the modern representatives of these places, butSchafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 514) is of opinionthat no conclusion can be safely drawn except as tothe identity of Petth with Pessium, and of Potisijewith Partiscum. The Iazyges lived on good terms with their neigh­bours on the \V., the German Quadi (Tac. But iii.5), with whom they united for the purpose of subju­ v 4