OCR Output 250 ROMAN EMPIRE. Such anarchy was the inevitable consequence of thelaws and manners of Europe; and the kingdoms ofFrance and Italy were shivered into fragments by theviolence of the same tempest. But the Italian citiesand the French vassals were divided and destroyed,while the union of the Germans has produced, underthe name of an empire, a great system of a federativerepublic. In the frequent, and at last the perpetual,institution of diets, a national spirit was kept alive, andthe powers of a common legislature are still exercisedby the three branches or .colleges of the electors, theprinces, and the free and imperial cities of Germany.I. Seven of the most powerful feudatories were per­mitted to assume, with a distinguished name and rank,the exclusive privilege of choosing the Roman emperor;and these electors were the king of Bohemia, the dukeof Saxony, the margrave of Brandenburgh, the countpalatine of the Rhine, and the three archbishops ofMentz, of Treves, and of Cologne. II. The college ofprinces and prelates purged themselves of a promiscuousmultitude: they reduced to four representative votes,the long series of independent counts, and excludedthe nobles or equestrian order, sixty thousand of whom,as in the Polish diets, had appeared on horseback, inthe field of election. III. The pride of birth and do­minion, of the sword and the mitre, wisely adopted thecommons as the third branch of the legislature, and, inthe progress of society, they were introduced about thesame era into the national assemblies of France, Eng­land, and Germany. The Hanseatic league command­ed the trade and navigation of the north: the confede­rates of the Rhine secured the peace and intercourse ofthe inland country; the influence of the cities has beenadequate to their wealth and policy, and their negativestill invalidates the acts of the two superior colleges ofelectors and princes.' 1 In the immense labyrinth of the juspublicam of Germany, I most either quoteone writer or a thousand. and I had rather trust to one faithful guide, than tran­scribe, on credit, a multitude of aamcs and passages. That guide ia M. Pfeffol, the