OCR Output 1 10 , THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 770. reason the more disastrous; no warning given, and byconsequence no time to escape. The open fields, insuch dreadful convulsions, are the usual refuge; but Jthe earth opening in various places, all who attemptedto fly were buried in the yawning caverns. Hills aresaid to have sunk, and valleys rose to mountains.Quick flashes of lightning showed all the horrors ofthe scene. The city of Sardes suffered most, and wasrelieved in proportion to the distress of the inhabi­tants. Besides a remission for five years of all taxes,whether due to the public treasury, or the coffers ofthe prince, Tiberius promised a supply of one hun­dred thousand great sesterces. The city of Magnesia,situate near mount Sipylus, suffered, in the next de,'gree, and was considered accordingly. The inhabi­tants of Temnos, Philadelphia, Egcoa, and Apollonia,with the cities of Hierocsesarea, Myrina, Cyme, Tmo-lus, as also the Mosthenians, and the'people called theMacedonians of Hyrcania, were, for the like term offive years, exempted from all manner of imposts. Thesenate resolved to send a person of their own order :to make an estimate of the mischief, and grant suita- 'ble relief. The affairs of Asia were at that time ad­ministered by a man of consular dignity. To avoidthe jnalousy incident to officers of equal rank, Mar­cus Aletus, who had risen no higher than the officeof prsetor, was the person commissioned to superin­tend the business. XLVIII. Besides these acts/of public munificence,Tiberius showed, in matters of a private nature, »spirit of liberality that did him the highest honour.The estate of /Emilia Musa, who was possessed of alarge fortune, and died intestate, leaving no lawfulheir, was claimed to the prince's use by the officer ofthe imperial exchequer. Tiberius renounced his rightin favour of iEmilius Lepidus, who seemed to standin some degree of relation to the deceased. He gaveup, in like manner, the rich possessions, of Patuleius,a Roman knight; and, though a considerable legacywas left to himself, he resigned the whole to MarcusServllius, upon the ground of a former will, duly at­tested, in which gervilius was constituted sols heir.