OCR Output 4<Sd THE HISTORY /' BOOK cury, and Neptune, for the fpace of eight days. Thtf. -r'-__. fame folemn rites were performed by private pcrfons.Y.R. 356. We are told, that the doors were thrown open inB.C. 396. every part of the city; that every thing was expofedin public to be ufed in common; that pafiengers,whether known or unknown, wereuniverfally invitedto lodgings; and even that people at variance, re­fraining from animofity and ill language, converfcdtogether with complaifance and kindnefs. Duringthofe days too, fuch as were in confinement were fctat liberty; and afterwards, people were deterred,by a religious fcruple, from confining thofe pcrfonsto whom the gods had brought fuch deliverance.Meanwhile dangers multiplied at Veii, to whichpoint the operations of three different wars wereconcentred; for the Capenatians and Falifcianscoming up unexpectedly to the relief of the town,the troops were obliged, in the fame manner as for­merly, to make head againft three different armies,on different fides, through the whole extent of theirworks. What contributed to their fafety beyondevery thing elfe, was the recollection of the fentencepalTed on Sergius and Virginius: fo that a reinforce­ment was quickly led round from the principal camp,where the delay had been made in the former cafe,and thefe fell upon the rear of the Capenatians, whiletheir front was engaged againft the rampart of theRomans. The fight no fooner began here, than it.ftruck terror into the Falifcians alfo, and a feaibnable'fally, made from the camp while they were thusdif-ordered, obliged them to turn their backs. Thevictors then, purfuing them in their retreat, made•vaft flaughter among them j and, in a thort timeafter, a party, which had been employed in ravag-•ing the territory of Capena, accidentally meetingthem, as they fled in confufion, entirely cut off thofewho had furvived the fight. Great numbers of theVeientians alfo, in rheir retreat to the city, wereflain before the. g..ites; for, dreading left the Ro­mans