OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 239 princes; but to those princes alone our obedience is due; and Constantine, the el­der emperor, is of an age to sustain, in his own hands, the weight of the sceptre.Your sex is excluded by nature from the toils of government. How could youcombat, how could you answer, the barbarians, who, with hostile or friendly in­tentions, may approach the royal city? May heaven avert from the Roman re­public this national disgrace, which would provoke the patience of the slaves ofPersia." Martina descended from the throne with indignation, and sought a re­fuge in the female apartment of the palace. The reign of Constantine ifi. lastedonly one hundred and three days: he expired in the thirtieth year of his age, andalthough his life had been a long malady, a belief was entertained that poison hadbeen the means, and his cruel step-mother the author, of his untimely fate. Mar­tina reaped indeed the harvest of his death, and assumed the government in thename of the surviving emperor; but the incestuous widow of Heraclius was uni­versally abhorred; the jealousy of the people was awakened, and the two orphanswhom Constantine had left, became the objects of the public care. It was in vainthat the son of Martina, who was no more than fifteen years of age, was taught todeclare himself the guardian of his nephews, one of whom he had presented atthe baptismal font: it was in vain that he swore on the wood of the true cross, todefend them against all their enemies. On his death-bed, the late emperor des­patched a trusty servant to arm the troops and provinces of the east in the defenceof his helpless children: the eloquence and liberality of Valentin had been success­ful, and, from his camp of Chalcedon, he boldly demanded the punishment of theassassins, and the restoration of the lawful heir. The license of the soldiers, whodevoured the grapes and drank the wine of their Asiatic vineyards, provoked thecitizens of Constantinople against the domestic authors of their calamities, andthe dome of St. Sophia re-echoed, not with prayers and hymns, but with the cla­mours and imprecations of an enraged multitude. At their imperious command,Heracleonas appeared in the pulpit with the eldest of the royal orphans; Constansalone was saluted as emperor of the Romans, and a crown of gold which had beentaken from the tomb of Heraclius, was placed on his head, with the solemn bene­diction of the patriarch. But in the tumult of joy and indignation, the church waspillaged, the sanctuary was polluted by a promiscuous crowd of Jews and barba­rians; and the Monothelite Pyrrhus, a creature of the empress, after dropping aprotestation on the altar, escaped by a prudent flight from the zeal of the catho­lics. A more serious and bloody task was reserved for the senate, who deriveda temporary strength from the consent of the soldiers and people. The spirit ofRoman freedom revived the ancient and awful examples of the judgment of ty­rants, and the imperial culprits were deposed and condemned as the authors of thedeath of Constantine. But the severity of the conscript fathers was stained by theindiscriminate punishment of the innocent and the gulity: Martina and Heracleo •nas were sentenced to the amputation, the former of her tongue; the latter of hitnose; and after this cruel execution they consumed the remainder of their daysin exile and oblivion. The Greeks who were capable of reflection might find someconsolation for their servitude, by observing the abuse of power when it was lodgedfor a. moment in the hands of an aristocracy. We shall imagine ourselves transported five hundred years backwards to theage of the Antonines, if we listen to the oration which Constans II. pronounced inthe twelfth year of his age before the Byzantine senate. After returning histhanks for the just punishment of the assassins who had intercepted the fairesthopes of his father's reign,—" By the Divine Providence," said the young empe­ror, " and by your righteous decree, Martina and her incestuous progeny havebeen cast headlong from the throne. Your majesty and wisdom have preventedthe Roman state from degenerating into lawless tyranny. I therefore exhort andbeseech you to stand forth as the counsellors and judges of the common safety."The senators were gratified bv the respectful address and liberal donative of theirsovereign; but these servile Greeks were unworthy and regardless of freedom,and in his mind, the lesson of an hour was quickly erased by the prejudices of theage and the habits of despotism. He retained only a jealous fear lest the senateor people should one day invade the right of primogeniture, and seat his brotherTheodosius on an equal throne. By the imposition of holy orders, the grandsonof Heraclius was disqualified for the purple; but this ceremony, which seemed toprofane the sacraments of the church, was insufficient to appease the suspicionsof the tyrant, and the death of the deacon Theodosius could alone expiate thecrime of his royal birth. His murder was avenged by the imprecations of the