OCR Output XEMEXTURI. 417 NEMETOCENNA. Kthmtis, it was not a town. The sacred grovecontained only the temple, theatre, stadium, andotlirr monuments. There was a village in theneighbourhood called Bembixa (B«ft£"'<0. of which,however, the exact site is unknown. (Strab. viii.p. .177; Steph. B. *. i>.) The haunts of the Ne-mean lion are said to have been near Bombina.(Theocr. xxv. 202.) The chief building in the sacred grove was thetemple of Zens Nemeius, the patron god of the place.When visited by Pausanias the roof hud fallen, andthe statue no longer remained (ii. 15. § 2). Threecolumns of the temple are still standing, amidst ava^t heap of ruins. "Two of these columns be­longed to the pronaos, and were placed as usual be­tween antae; they are 4 feet 7 inches in diameterat the base, and still support their architrave. Thethird column, which belonged to the outer range, is5 feet 3 inches in diameter at the base, and about34 feet high, including a capital of 2 feet. Its dis­tance from the corresponding column of the pronaosis 18 feet. The total height of the three membersof the entablature was 8 feet 2 inches. The generalintercolnmination of the peristyle was 7 feet; at theangles, 5 feet 10 inches. From the front of thepronaos to the extremity of the cell within, thelength was 95 feet: the breadth of the cell within,31 feet; the thickness of the walls, 3 feet. Thetemple was a hexastyle, of about 65 feet in breadthon the upper step of the stylobate, which consistedof three steps: the number of columns on the sides,and consequently the length of the temple, I conldnot ascertain." (Leake.) Though of the Doricorder, tbe columns are as slender as some of thespecimens of the Ionic, and are so different from theelder Doric examples, that we ought probably toascribe to the temple a date subsequent to the Per­sian wars. Among the other monuments in the sacred grovewere the tombs of Opheltes, and of his father Ly-cur~ns. The former was surrounded with a stoneenclosure, and contained certain altars; the latterwxi a mound of earth. (Pans. ii. 15. § 3.) Pau­sanias also mentions a fountain called Adrasteia.TV latter is. doubtless, the source of water near theTurkish fountain, which is now without water. Atthe foot of tbe mountain, to the left of this spot, arethe remains of the stadium. Between the stadiumaad the temple of Zeus, on the left of the path, aresrane Hellenic foundations, and two fragments ofDoric columns. Near the temple are the ruins of aavail church, which contains some Doric fragments.(Leake, Morea. vol. iii. p. 327, seq.j Curtius, Pe-hp^vusos, vol. ii. p. 505. seq.) For an account of the Nemean festival, see Diet."f Anliq. t. V. XEMEXTURI, one of the several Alpine peoplesenumerated by Pliny (iii. c. 20) among the namesinwribed on the Trophy of the Alps. Their positionis unknown. [G. L.J SE'MESA, a river of Gallia mentioned by An­emias (Motella. v. 353), is the Nims, which joinsthe Pronaea (Prum). The united streams flowinto tbe Sura (Sour), and the Sura into the Mo-sefla. [G. L.] XKMETACLM or NEMETOCENNA (Arras),the chief town of the Atrebates, a Belgic people.Cawar (£. G.viii. 46) spent a winter at Nemetocennaat tlie c!o«e of hia Gallic campaigns. In the inscrip-t»wi «f Tongrrn there is a route from Castellum(Guar/) to Nemetacum, which is the same place as yol. n. Nemetocenna. The distance from Cassel throughBMune to Arras is 43 M. P. The distance ac­cording to the Antonine Itin. from Cassel throughMinariacnm [Minariacum] is 55 M. P. There isalso a route from Taruenna (Thirouenne) of 33M. P. to Nemetacum. There is no place wherethese roads can meet except Arras. In the Greektexts of Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 7) the capital of theAtrebates is Origiacum ('Opryi'aitoi'); but it issaid that the Palatine MS. has Metaeon, and all theearly editions of Ptolemy have Metacum. It seemspossible, then, that Ptolemy's Metacum representsNemetacum. But Ptolemy incorrectly places theAtrebates on the Seine; he also places part of theirterritory on tbe sea-coast, which may be true. Ori­giacum is supposed to be Orchies, between Tournaiand Douai. The town Nemetacum afterwards tookthe name of the people Atrebates or Atrebatii, andthe name was finally corrupted into Arras. [Atre­bates.] The traces of the Roman roads from Arras toTherouenne and to Cambrai are said to exist. It isalso said that some remains of a temple of Jupiterhave been discovered at Arras, on the Place daCloilre; and that there was a temple of Isis on thesite of the Hotel-Dieu. (D'Anville, Notice, <f-c.,Walckenaer, Geog. <fc. vol. i. p. 431.) [G. L ] NEMETATAE. [Gallaecia, VoL I. p. 933,a.] NEME'TES (N»^7)Toi). This name first appearsin Caesar (B. G. i. 51), who speaks of the Ncmetesas one of the Germanic tribes in the army of Ario-vistns. In another passage (B. G. vi. 25) he de­scribes the Hercynia Silva as commencing on thewest at the borders of the Helvetii, the Nemetes,and the Rauraci; and as he does not mention theNemetes as one of the nations on the left bank ofthe Rhine (B. G. iv. 10), we may probably inferthat in his time they were on the cast or Germanside of the Rhine. The Vangiones and Nemeteswere afterwards transplanted to the west .side of theRhine. (Tac. Germ. c. 28.) Ptolemy makes No-,viomagus (Speyer) the capital of the Nemetes, butbe incorrectly places them north of the Vangiones.whose capital was Borbetomagus ( Worms). Pliny(iv. 17) mentions the Nemetes, Tribocci. and Van­giones in this order; but Tacitus mentions themjust in the inverse order, Vangiones, .Tribocci andNemetes. From none of these writers could wedetermine the relative positions of these peoples;but the fact that Noviomagns (NotoTicryoi) is men­tioned by Ptolemy as the chief town of the Nemetes,and that Noviomagns is proved to be Speyer by theItineraries along the west bank of the Rhine, deter­mine the position of the Nemetes. In Ammianus Marccllinus (XT. 11) and theNot. Imp., Noviomagns appears under the nameof the people Nemetes or Nemetae. Ammianuscalls it a municipium, by which he probably meansa Roman town. In the Notitia of the Gallic pro­vinces, Civitas Nemetum belongs to Germania Prima.In some later writings the expression occurs " civitasNemetum id est Spira." The name of Speyer isfrom the Speycrbach, which flows into the Rhine atSpeyer. (D'Anville. Notice, rye.; Walckenaer, Geog.dv. vol. ii. p. 277.) [G. L.] NEMETOBHI'GA (N»M«-oB>-ya), a town of theTibnri in Astoria, on the road from Bracara to As-turica, now Mtndoya, in the district of Tribis.(Ptol. ii. 6. § 37; Itin. Ant. p. 428; Ukert, vol. ii.pt. 1. p. 442.) [T. H. D.] NEMETOCENNA [Nemetacum.] E E