OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117 condescended to assume that odious character. Every chap.apartment of the palace was adorned with the instru- XVf*ments of death and torture, and a general consterna­tion was diffused through the capital of Syria. The'Prince of the East, as if he had been conscious howmuch he had to fear, and how little he deserved toreign, selected for the objects of his resentment, theprovincials accused of some imaginary treason, andhis own courtiers, whom with more reason he sus­pected of incensing, by their secret correspondence,the timid and suspicious mind of Constantius. Buthe forgot that he was depi,iving himself of his onlysupport, the affection of the people; whilst he fur­nished the malice of his enemies with the arms oftruth, and afforded the emperor the fairest pretenceof exacting the forfeit of his purple, and of his life*. As long as the civil war suspended the fate of the ^s^cre f*Roman world, Constantius dissembled his knowledge ministers,of the weak and cruel administration to which hisA* .364,choice had subjected the East; and the discovery ofsome assassins, secretly despatched to Antioch by thetyrant of Gaul, was employed to convince the public,that the emperor and the Caesar were united by thesame interest, and pursued by the same enemies f,But when the victory was decided in favour of Con­stantius, his dependent colleague became less usefuland less formidable. Every circumstance of his con­duct was severely and suspiciously examined, and itwas privately resolved, either to deprive Gallus of thepurple, or at least to remove him from the indolentluxury of Asia to the hardships and dangers of a * See in Ammianus (1. xiv. c. 1.7.) a very ample detail of the cruelties ofGallus. His brother Julian (p. 272.) insinuates, that a secret conspiracy hadbeen formed against him; and Zosimus names (1. ii. p. 135.) the persons en­gaged in it; a minister of considerable rank, and two obscure agents, who wereresolved to make their fortune. f Zonaras, 1. xiiL torn. ii. p. 17, 18. The assassins had seduced a great numrber of legionaries; but their designs were discovered and revealed by an oldwoman in whose cottage they lodged. i 3