OCR Output 50 ROMAN EMPIRE. The three THREE CHAPTERS,b which has filled more vo-chaptcrs. lumes than it deserves lines, is deeply marked532—698. with this subtle and disingenuous spirit. Itwas now three hundred years since the body of Origen0had been eaten by the worms: his soul, of which he heldthe pre-existence, was in the hands of its Creator, but hiswritings were eagerly perused by the monks of Palestine.In these writings, the piercing eye of Justinian descriedmore than ten metaphysical errors; and the primitivedoctor, in the company of Pythagoras and Plato, wasdevoted by the clergy to the eternity of hell-fire, whichhe had presumed to deny. Under the cover of this pre­cedent, a treacherous blow was aimed at the council ofChalcedon. The fathers had listened without impa­tience to the praise of Theodore of Mopsuestia :d andtheir justice or indulgence had restored both Theodoretof Cyrrhus, and Ibas of Edessa, to the communion ofthe church. But the characters of these oriental bishopswere tainted with the reproach of heresy; the first hadbeen the master, the two others were the friends of Nes-torius: their most suspicious passages were accusedunder the tide of the three chapters; and the condem­nation of their memory must involve the honour of a 11 On the subject of the three chapters, the original acts of the fifth general coun­cil of Constantinople supply much useless though authentic knowledge. (Concil.torn. 6. p. 1—419.) The Greek Evagrius is less copious and correct (Jin. 4. c.38.) than the three zealous Africans, Facundus, (in his twelve books de tribuscapitules, which are most correctly published by Si runnil) Liberates, (in. his Bre-viarum, c. 22—24.) and Victor Tunnensis in his Chronicle, (in torn. 1. Antiq.Lect. Canisii, p. 330—334.) The Liber Pontificalia, or Anastaaius, (in Vigilio,Pelagio, &c.) is original, Italian evidence. The modem reader will derive someinformation from Dupin (Bibliot. Eccles. torn. 5. p. 189—207.) and Baanage,(Hist.de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 519—541.) yet the latter is too firmly resolved todepreciate the authority and character of the popes. c Origen had indeed too great a propensity to imitate the trXan and Juiririgsia ofthe old philosophers. (Justinian ad Mennam, in Concil. torn. 6. p. 356.) Hismoderate opinions were too repugnant to the zeal of the church, and he was foundguilty of the heresy of reason. dBasnage(Prefat. p. 11—14. ad torn. 1. Antiq. Lect. Canis.) has fairly weighedthe guilt and innocence of Theodore of Mopsuestia. If he composed ten thousandvolumes, as many errors would be a charitable allowance. In all the subsequentcatalogues of heresiarchs, he alone, without Ins two brethren, is included: and itis the duty of Asseman (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 203—207.) to justify the sen­tence.