OCR Output 484 DISSERTATION I. or Ebionitc Christian; and this I take to be the plain andevident key of this whole matter. V. Since, therefore, Josephus appears to have been in hisown heart and conscience no other than a Nazarene orEbionite Christian, and, by consequence, with them rejectedall our Greek gospels and Greek books of the New Testament,and received only the Hebrew gospel of the Nazarenes orEbionites, styled by them The gospel according to theHebrews, or according to the twelve apostles, or even accord足ing to Matthew, we ought always to have that Nazarene orEbionitc gospel, with the other Nazarene or Ebionite frag足ments in view, when we consider any passages of Josephusrelating to Christ or to Christianity. Thus, since thatgospel omitted all that is in the beginning of our St. Matthew'sand St. Luke's gospels, and began with the ministry of Johnthe Baptist: in which first parts of the gospel history are theaccounts of the slaughter of the infants, and of the enrolmentor taxation under Augustus Caesar and Herod, it is no greatwonder that Josephus has not taken care particularly andclearly to preserve those histories to us. Thus, when wefind that Josephus calls James, the brother of Christ, by thename of James the Just, and describes him as a most just orrighteous man, in an especial manner, we are to rememberthat such is his name and character in the gospel accordingto the Hebrews, and the other Ebionite remains of Hegc-sippus, but no where else, that I remember, in the earliestantiquity; nor are we to suppose they herein referred to anyother than that righteousaess which was by the Jewish law,wherein St. Paul,1 before he embraced Christianity, professethhimself to have been blameless. Thus when Josephus, withother Jews, ascribed the miseries of that nation underVespasian and Titus, with the destruction of Jerusalem, tothe barbarous murder of James the Just, we must remember,what we learn from the Ebionite fragments of Hegesippus,that these Ebionites interpreted a prophecy of Isaiah as fore足telling this very murder, and those consequent miseries: Letus take away the just one, for he is unprofitable to us; there足 1 Philipp. iii. 4-0.