OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 267 threatened the most inauspicious events; and Julian chap.soon discovered, by less ambiguous signs, that he had xlx.now reached the term of his prosperity *. On the second day after the battle, the domestic situationguards, the Jovians and Herculians, and the remain- nacy°of"ing troops, which composed near two thirds of the AulDn'363.whole army, were securely wafted over the Tigris f. June.While the Persians beheld from the walls of Ctesiphonthe desolation of the adjacent country, Julian castmany an anxious look towards the North, in full ex­pectation, that as hehimself had victoriously penetratedto the capital of Sapor, the march and junction of hislieutenants, Sebastian and Procopius, would be exe­cuted with the same courage and diligence. His ex­pectations were disappointed by the treachery of theArmenian king, who permitted, and most probablydirected, the desertion of his auxiliary troops fromthe camp of the Romans f; and by the dissensionsof the two generals, who were incapable of formingor executing any plan for the public service. Whenthe emperor had relinquished the hope of this im­portant reinforcement, he condescended to hold acouncil of war, and approved, after a full debate, thesentiment of those generals, who dissuaded the siege ofCtesiphon, as a fruitless and pernicious undertaking.It is not easy for us to conceive by what arts of for­tification a city, thrice besieged and taken by thepredecessors of Julian, could be rendered impregnableagainst an army of sixty thousand Romans, com­manded by a brave and experienced general, and * The labour of the canal, the passage of the Tigris, and the victory, aredescribed by Ammianus (xxiv. 5, 6.), Libanius (Orat , Parent. c 124—128.p. 347—353.), Greg. Nazianzen (Orat. iv. p. 115.), Zosimus (l . iii. p. 181—183.), and Sextus Rufus (de Provinciis, c. 28.). f The fleet and army were formed in three divisions, of which the first only hadpassed during the night (Ammian. xx. iv. 6). The Joft/pojiix, whom Zosimus transports on the third day (1. iii. p. 183.), might consist of theprotectors, among whom the historian Ammianus, and the future emperorJovian, actually served; some schools of the domestics, and perhaps the Joviansand Herculians, who often did duty as guards.