OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 101 able. Our soldiers, heavy laden with arms, may rea­sonably fear a body of cnvalry, or arrows; defiles ofdifficult passages, and places impassable to convoys.But they have defeated, and will defeat a thousandarmies more formidable than those of Alexander andthe Macedonians, provided that the same love of peaceand zeal to promote domestic harmony, which at pre­sent subsist among us, shall continue to prevail. 20. Marcus Foslius Flaccinator and Lucius Plau-tius Venno were the next raised to the consulship.[A.U.C.436. B.C. 316.] In this year ambassadors camefrom most of the states of the Samuites to procure arenewal of the treaty ; and, having moved the compas­sion of the senate by the humility with which theyprostrated themselves before them, were referred tothe people, with whom they found not their prayers soefficacious. Their petition, therefore, with regard tothe treaty, was rejected; but, after a supplication ofseveral days, they obtained a truce for two years. TheTeaneans likewise, and Canusians of Apulia, worn outby the devastations of their country, surrendered them­selves to the consul, Lucius Plautius, and gave hos­tages. This year prefects first began to be created forCapua, and a code of laws was given to that nation byLucius Furins the pretor; both in compliance withtheir own request, as a remedy for the disorder oftheir affairs, occasioned by intestine dissensions. AtRome two additional tribes were constituted, the Ufen-tine and Falerine. On the affairs of Apulia fallinginto decline, the Teatians of that country came to thenew consuls, Caius Junius Bubulcus and Quintus/Emilius Barbula, suing for an alliance [A. U. C. 437.B.C. 315], and engaging that peace should be observedtowards the Romans through every part of Apulia.By pledging themselves boldly for this they obtainedthe grant of an alliance, not however on terms of equa­lity, but of their submitting to the dominion of theRoman people. Apulia being intirely reduced, (forJunius had also gained possession of Forentum, a townof great strength,) the consuls advanced into Lucania;