OCR Output Ot THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 297 TJlpius Crinitus, whose blood was derived from the fame source asthat of Trajan, adopted the Pannonian peasant, gave him his daughterin marriage, and relieved with his ample fortune the honourablepoverty which Aurelian had preserved inviolate ,8. The reign of Aurelian was only four years and about nine Aurelian'smonths; but every instant of that short period was filled by some reign,memorable atchievment. He put an end to the Gothic war, chas­tised the Germans who invaded Italy, recovered Gaul, Spain, andBritain out*of the hands of Tetricus, and destroyed the proud mo­narchy which Zenobia had erected in the East, on the ruins of theafflicted empire. It was the rigid attention of Aurelian, even to the minutest ar- His severe dis.licles of discipline, which bestowed such uninterrupted success on hisarms. His military regulations are contained in a very conciseepistle to one of his inferior officers, who is commanded to enforcethem, as he wishes to become a tribune, or as he is desirous to live.Gaming, drinking, and the arts of divination, were severely pro­hibited. Aurelian expected that his soldiers should be modest,frugal, and laborious; that their armour should be constantly keptbright, their weapons .sharp, their clothing and horses ready forimmediate service; that they should live in their quarters with chas­tity and sobriety, without damaging the corn fields, without stealingeven a sheep, a fowl, or a bunch of grapes, without exacting fromtheir landlords either salt, or oil, or wood. "The public allow-u ance,'.' continues the emperor, "is sufficient for their support;u their wealth should be collected from the spoil of the enemy, not'* from the tears of the provincials 'V A single instance will serveto display the rigour, and even cruelty, of Aurelian. One of thesoldiers had seduced the wife of his host. The guilty wretch wasfastened to two trees forcibly drawn towards each other, and his limbstorn asunder by their sudden separation. A few such examples im­pressed a salutary consternation. The punishments of Aurelian wereVol. I. Q^q terrible j