OCR Output •040 THE DECLINE AND FALL their tongue the perfect accomplishment of wickedness and impiety.(l) The>Sonniles, who are supported by the general consent and orthodox tradition of theMussulmans; entertain a more impartial, or at least a more decent, opinion. Theyrespect the memory of Abubeker, Omar, Othman, and Ali, the holy and legiti­mate successors of the prophet. But they assign the last and most humble placeto the husband of Fatima, in the persuasion that the order of succession was de­termined by the degrees of sanctity. (2) An historian who balances the four caliphswith a hand unshaken by superstition, will calmly pronounce, that their mannerswere alike pure and exemplary; that their zeal was fervent, and probably sincere;and that, in the midst of riches and power, their lives were devoted to the prac­tice of moral and religious duties. But the public virtues of Abubeker and Omar,the prudence of the first/the severity of the second, maintained the peace andprosperity of their reigns. The feeble temper and declining age of Othman wereincapable of sustaining the weight of conquest and empire. He chose, and hewas deceived: he trusted, and he was betrayed; the most deserving of the faith­ful became useless or hostile to his government, and his lavish bounty was produc­tive only of ingratitude and discontent. The spirit of discord went forth in theprovinces, their deputies assembled at Medina, and the Charegites, the desperatefanatics who disclaimed the yoke of subordination atid reason, were confoundedamong the free-born Arabs, who demanded the redress of their wrongs and thepunishment of their oppressors. From Cufa, from Bassora, from Egypt, fromthe tribes of the desert, they rose in arms, encamped about a league from Medina,and despatched a haughty mandate to their sovereign, requiring him to executejustice, or to descend from the throne. His repentance began to disarm and dis­perse the insurgents; but their fury was rekindled by the arts of his enemies; andthe forgery of a perfidious secretary was contrived to blast his reputation and pre­cipitate his fall. The caliph had lost the only guard of his predecessors, the es­teem and confidence of the Moslems: during a siege of six weeks his water andprovisions were intercepted, and the feeble gates of the palace were protected onlyby the scruples of the more timorous rebels. Forsaken by those who had abusedhis simplicity, the helpless and venerable caliph expected the approach of death:the brother of Ayesha marched at the head of the assassins; and Othman, withthe Koran in his lap, was pierced with a multitude of wounds. A tumultuous anar­chy of five days was appeased by the inauguration of Ali; his refusal would haveprovoked a general massacre. In this painful situation he supported the becomingpride of the chief of the Hashemites; declared that he had rather serve than reign:rebuked the presumption of the strangers; and required the formal, if not the vo­luntary, assent of the chiefs of the nation. He has never been accused of pro­moting the assassin of Omar; though Persia indiscreetly celebrates the festival ofthat holy martyr. The quarrel between Othman and his subjects was assuagedby the early mediation of Ali; and Hassan, the eldest of his sons, was insultedand wounded in the defence of the caliph. Yet it is doubtful whether the fatherof Hassan was strenuous and sincere in his opposition to the rebels; and it is cer­tain that he enjoyed the benefit of their crime. The temptation was indeed ofsuch magnitude as might stagger and corrupt the most obdurate virtue. The am­bitious candidate no longer aspired to the barren sceptre of Arabia: the Saracenshad been victorious in the east and west; and the wealthy kingdoms of Persia, Sy­ria, and Egypt, were the patrimony of the commander of the faithful. A life of prayer and contemplation had not chilled the martial activity of Ali:but in a mature age, after a long experience of mankind, he still betrayed in hisconduct the rashness and indiscretion of youth. In the first days of his youth, heneglected to secure, either by gifts or fetters, the doubtful allegiance of Telha andZobier, two of the most powerful of the Arabian chiefs. They escaped from Me­dina to Mecca, and from thence to Bassora; erected the standard of revolt, andusurped the government of Irak, or Assyria, which they had vainly solicited asthe reward of their services. The mask of patriotism is allowed to cover the moglaring inconsistencies: and the enemies, perhaps the assassins, of Othman nidemanded vengeance for his blood. They were accompanied in their flight (1) Omar ii the name of the devil; his murderer is a saint. When the Persians shoot with the bow, they fre­quently cry,—"May this arrow go to the heart of Omar!" (Voyages deChardin. torn. ii. p. 239,240. 259, &c.) (2) This gradation of merit is distinctly marked in a creed illustrated by Reland(de Retig. Mohamm. lib. i. p.37.) and a Sonnite argument inserted by Ockley. (Hist, of the Saracens, torn. ii. p. 230.) The practice of curt-tng the memory of Ali was abolished, after forty yean, by the Ommiades themselves (d'Herbelot, p. 0900 aodthere are few among the Turks, who presume to revile bira as an infidel. (Voyages de Chardin, torn. iv. p. 4*.)