OCR Output Chap. I. "AVTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. / 125 to themselves; but for the women, and the youth, they hadbeen inveigled with shews, and the fightings of the gladiators,and certain distributions of flesh-meat among them, which thingsin pretence were designed for the pleasing of the multitude, butin reality to satiate the barbarous cruelty and madness of Caius.The slaves also were sorry, because they were by Caius allow­ed to accuse, and t9 despise their masters, and they could haverecourse to his assistance, when they had unjustly affrontedthem ; for he was very easy in believing them against theirmasters, even when they accused them falsely; and, if theywould discover what money their masters had, they might soonobtain both riches and liberty, as the rewards of their accusa­tions, because the reward of these informers was the eighth *part of the criminal's substance. As to the nobles, althoughthe report appeared credible to some of them, either becausethey knew of the plot before-hand, or because they wished itmight be true ; however, they concealed not only the joy theyhad at the relation of ir, but that they had heard any thing atall about it. These last acted so out of the fear they had, that ifthe report proved false, they should be punished, for having sosoon let men know their minds. But those that knew Caiuswas dead, because they were partners with the conspirators,they concealed all still more cautiously, as not knowing one ano­ther's minds; and fearing lest they should speak of it to someof those to whom the continuance of tyranny was advantageous :and, if Caius should prove to be alive, they might be informedagainst, and punished. And another report went about, that al­though Caius had been wounded indeed, yet was not he dead,but alive still, and under the physician's hands. Nor was anyone looked upon by another as faithful enough to be trusted,and to whom any one would open his mind ; for he was eithera friend to Caius, and therefore suspected to favour his tyranny,or he was one that hated him, who therefore might be suspect­ed to deserve the less credit, because of his ill-will to him.—Nay, it was said by some, (and this indeed it was that depri­ved the nobility of their hopes, and made them sad), that Cai­us was in a condition to despise the dangers he had been in, andtook no care of healing his wounds, but was gotten away intothe market-place, and, bloody as he was, was making an ha­rangue to the people. And these were the conjectural reportsof those that were so unreasonable as to endeavour to raise lu-rnults, which they turned different ways, according to ihe opi*nions of the hearers. Yet did they not leave their seats, for fear * The rewards proposed by the Roman laws to informers, was sometimes aneighth part of the criminal's goodi, as here, and sometimes a fourth part, asSpanheim assures us, from Suetonius and Tacitus.