OCR Output Chap. It. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3di affairs], he tried to sift out the accounts of the money, and totake possession of the citadels. But the governors of those cita足dels were not unmindful of the commands laid upon them byArchelaus, and continued to guard them, and said, the custodyof them rather belonged to Caesar, than to Archelaus. 3. In the mean time Antipas went also to Rome, to strive forthe kingdom, and to insist that the former testament, whereinhe was named to be king, was valid before the latter testa足ment. Salome had also promised to assist him, as had many ofArchelaus's kindred, who sailed along with Archelaus himselfalso. He also carried along with him his mother, and Ptolemy,the brother of Nicolaus, who seemed one of great weight, on'account of the great trust Herod put in him, he having been oneof his most honoured friends. However, Antipas dependedchiefly uponlreneus, the orator; upon whose authority he hadrejected such as advised him to yield to Archelaus, because hewas his elder brother, and because the second testament gavethe kingdom to him. The inclinations also of all Archelaus'skindred, who hated him, were removed to Antipas, when theycame to Rome, although in the first place every one rather de足sired to live under their own laws, [without a king], and to beunder a Roman governor; but if they should fail in thatpoint^these desired that Antipas might be their king. 4. Sabinus did also afford these his assistance to the samepurpose, by the letters he sent, wherein he accused Archelausbefore Caesar, and highly commended Antipas. Salome also>and those with her, put the crimes which they accused Arche^laus of in order, and put them into Caesar's hands: and afterthey had done that, Archelaus xyrote down the reasons of hisclaim, and, by Ptolemy, sent in his fathers ring, and his father'saccounts. And when Caesar had maturely weighed by himselfwhat both had to alledge for themselves, as also had consideredof the great burden of the kingdom, and largeness of the reve-fiues, and withal the number of the children Herod had left be-ihind him, and had moreover read the letters he had receivedfrom Varus and Sabinus on this occasion, he assembled the;principal persons among the Romans together; (in which as足sembly Caius, the son of Agrippa, and his daughter Julias, butby himself adopted for his own son, sat in the first seat), andgave the pleaders leave to speak. 5. Then stood up Salome's son, Antipaterj (Vho of all Ar<-chtlaus's antagonists was the shrewdest pleader), and accusedhim in the following speech: " That Archelaus did in words" contend for the kingdom, but that in deeds he had long exer.a" cised royal authority, and so did but insult Gaesar in desiring VOL. JIL " Z -L "to