OCR Output CHAP. 31. ROMAN HISTORY. 355 ed; but though they were sworn as usual, and demand­ed restitution in form, no regard was paid to what theysaid. After all, a contest arose, whether war should bedenounced by order of the people, or whether a decreeof the senate might be sufficient. The tribunes, bythreatening that they woutd stop the levies, carried thatthe consuls should lay before the people, what respectedthe war. All the centuries voted for the war. The peo­ple had the better in this dispute, having also obtained,that no consuls should be elected for the succeeding year. CHAP. XXXI. * . i Miscarriage of the Military tribunes. A Dictator named. .17 OUR military tribunes were chosen with consularauthority, Titus Quinctius Pennus, who had been consul,C. Furiu*. M. Posthumius, A Corneilius Cossus. Ofthese Cossus staid at Rome to preside in the city; theother three, having completed the levies, marched di­rectly to Veii, where they gave a signal proof of thepernicious effects in war, of a plurality of commanders ii\chief; for, as they differed in opinion, and each of theminsisted to have his own plan adopted, they gave theenemy an opportunity of taking them at a disadvantage.For while the army had no distinct orders, one command­ing the signal to be given for battle, another, a retreatto be sounded, the Vejentes seized that opportunity ofattacking them. They were put in disorder, and fledback to their camp, which was hard by, so that theywere more disgraced than hurt. • The city, unaccustomed to defeats, was greatly afflict­ed ; they, hated tribunes, and cried out for a dictator:there the whole hopes of the city seemed to centre. Buthere again, religion threw an obstacle in the way, that adictator could not be named but by a consul. With re­spect to this point, the augurs were consulted, who sa­tisfied their scruples. A. Cornelius named Mamercus^Emilius dictator, who in return named him general of thehorse. Consequently whenever the circumstances of thestate required exalted merit, the censors degradation hadno influence to prevent the people from vesting the admi­nistration in a family which had been unjustly disgraced*.