OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a Thracian journey of health, or business, or devotion. Justiiiian was afflicted bya pain in his head; and his private entry countenanced the rumour of his death. Be­fore the third hour of the day, the bakers' shops were plundered of their bread,the houses were shut up, and every citizen, with hope or terror, prepared forthe impending tumult. The senators themselves, fearful and suspicious, wereconvened at the ninth hour; and the prefect received their commands to visit everyquarter of the city, and proclaim a general illumination for the recovery of theemperor's health. The ferment subsided; but every accident betrayed the impo­tence of the government and the factious temper of the people; the guards weredisposed to mutiny as often as their quarters were changed or their pay was with­held: the frequent calamities of fires and earthquakes afforded the opportunitiesof disorder; the disputes of the blues and greens, of the orthodox and heretics, de­generated into bloody battles; and in the presence of the Persian ambassador, Jus­tinian blushed for himself and for his subjects. Capricious pardon and arbitrarypunishment imbittered the irksomeness and discontent of a long reign; a conspira­cy was formed in the palace; and, unless we are deceived by the names of Mar-cellus and Sergius, the most virtuous and the most profligate of the courtiers wereassociated in the same designs. They had fixed the time of the execution; theirrank gave them access to the royal banquet; and their black slaves(l) were stationedin the vestibule and porticos, to announce the death of the tyrant, and to excite asedition in the capital. But the indiscretion of an accomplice saved the poor rem­nant of the days of Justinian. The conspirators were detected and seized, withdaggers hidden under their garments: Marcellus died by his own hand, and Ser­gius was dragged from the sanctuary. (2) Pressed by remorse, or tempted by thehopes of safety, he accused two officers of the household of Belisarius; and tor­ture forced them to declare that they had acted according to the secret instruc­tions of their patron. (3) Posterity will not hastily believe that a hero, who, inthe vigour of life, had disdained the fairest offers of ambition and revenge, shouldstoop to the murder of his prince, whom he could not long expect to survive. Hisfollowers were impatient to fly; but flight must have been supported by rebellion,and he had lived enough for nature and for glory. Belisarius appeared before thecouncil with less fear than indignation: after forty years' service, the emperorhad prejudged his guilt: and injustice was sanctified by the presence and authori­ty of the patriarch. The life of Belisarius was graciously spared; but his fortuneswere sequestered, and from December to July he was guarded as a prisoner in hisown palace. At length his innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and ho­nours were restored; and death, which might be hastened by resentment and grief,removed him from the world about eight months after his deliverance. Thename of Belisarius can never die: but instead of the funeral, the monuments, thestatues, so justly due to his memory, I only read, that his treasures, the spoils ofthe Goths and Vandals, were immediately confiscated by the emperor. Some de­cent portion was reserved, however, for the use of his widow; and as Antonina 'had much to repent, she devoted the last remains of her life and fortune to thefoundation of a convent. Such is the simple and genuine narrative of the fall ofBelisarius and the ingratitude of Justinian. (4) That he was deprived of his eyes,and reduced by envy to beg his bread. " Give a penny to Belisarius the general!"is a fiction of later times,(5) which has obtained credit, or rather favour, as astrange example of the vicissitude of fortune. (1) (1) IvJous. They could scarcely be real Indians; and the Ethiopians, sometimes known by that name,were never used by the ancients as guards or followers: they were the trifling, though costly objects of fe­male and royal luxury (Terent. Eunuch, act 1. scene 2. Sueton. in August, c. until* with a good note of Ca-saubon, in Caligula, c. lvii.) (S) The Sergius (Vandal, lib. ii. c. 21, 22. Anecdot. c. 5.) and Marcellus (Cloth, lib. iii. c. 32.) are mentionedby Procopias. See Theophanes, p. 197. 201. (3) Alernannus, (p. 3.) quotes an old Byzantine MS. which has been printed in the Imperiam Orientale ofBandnri. (4) Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record is preserved in the fragmentof John Malala (torn. ii. p. 234—243.,) and the exact Chronicle of Theophanes (p. 194—204.) Cedrenus (Com-pend. p. 337,388.) and Zonaras (torn. ii. lib. xiv.p. 69.J seem to hesitate between the obsolete truth and thegrowing falsehood. (a") The source of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work of the twelfth century, theChiliads of John Tzerzes, a monk (Basil. 1546. ad calcem. Lycophront, Colon. Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet.Grac.) He relates the blindness and beggary of Belisarius in ten vulgar or political verses (Chiliad, iii. No.88.339—348. in Corp. Poet. Grac. torn. ii. p. 311.) Vm. III. 15