OCR Output 362 LIVY. swine with a human head. On occasion of these illomens a supplication of one day's continuance wasperformed; the consuls employed themselves diligentlyin the worship of the gods, and as soon as these wereappeased set out for their provinces. jElius, accom­panied by Caius Helvius, pretor, went into Gaul,where he put under the command of the pretor thearmy which he received from Lucius Lentnlus, and,which he ought to have disbanded, intending to carryon his own operations with the new troops which hehad brought with him; but he effected nothing worthrecording. The other consul, Titus Quintins, settingsail from Brundusium earlier than had been usual withformer consuls, reached Corcyra, with eight thousandfoot and eight hundred horse. From this place hepassed over, in a quinquereme, to the nearest part ofEpirus, and proceeded by long journeys to the Romancamp. Here he dismissed Villius; and waiting a fewdays, until the forces from Corcyra should come upand join him, held a council, to determine whether heshould endeavor to force his way straight forwardthrough the camp of the enemy; or whether, withoutattempting an enterprise of so great difficulty and dan­ger, he should not rather take a circuitous and saferoad, so as to penetrate into Macedonia by the countryof the Dassaretians and Lycus. The latter plan would,have been adopted had he not feared that, in removingto a greater distance from the sea, the enemy mightslip out of his hands; and that if the king should re­solve to secure himself in the woods and wilds, as hehad done before, the summer might be spun out with­out any thing being effected. It was therefore deter­mined, be the event what it might, to attack the enemyin their present post, disadvantageous as it would seemto an assailant. But it was easier to resolve on thismeasure than to devise any safe or certain method ofaccomplishing it. 10. Forty days were passed in view of the enemy,without making any kind of effort. Hence Philipconceived hopes of bringing about a treaty of peace,