OCR Output THE DECLINE AND- FALL,, service, it was sometimes indulged to the business or conveniencyNavigation, of private citizens9o. Nor was the communication of the Romanempire less free and open by sea than it was by land. The provincessurrounded and enclosed the Mediterranean; and Italy, in the shapeof an immense promontory, advanced into the midst of that greatlake. The coasts of Italy are, in general, destitute of safe harbours >but human industry had corrected the deficiencies of nature; andthe artificial port of Ostia, in particular, situate at the mouth of theTyber, and formed by the emperor Glaudiu6, Was a useful monu­ment of Roman greatness9'. From the port which was onlysixteen miles from the capital, a favourable breeze frequently car­ried vessels in seven days to the columns of Hercules, and in nine orten to Alexandria, in Egypt L v i .'..;:! . 'j Improvement Whatever evils either reason or declamation have imputed towremthe extensive empire, the power of Rome was attended with some be-Coumriesof P^fic^ consequences to mankind j and the fame freedom of inter-the empire, course which extended the vices, diffused likewise the improvements,pf social life. In die, more remote ages of antiquity, the world Wasunequally divided. The east was in the immemorial possession ofarts and luxury; whilst the west was inhabited by rude and war?like barbarians, who -either disdained agriculture, or to whom itwas totally unknown. Under the protection of an establishedgovernment, the productions off happier climates, and the industryof more civilized nations, were gradually introduced into thewestern countries of Europe; and the natives were encouraged, byan open and profitable commerce* to multiply the former, as wellas to improve the latter. It would be almost impossible to enu*merate all the articles, cither of the animal or the vegetable reign,which were successively imported into Europe, from Asia andEgypt9'; but it will not be unworthy 'of the dignity, and muchless of the utility of an historical work,. slightly to touch on ja fewof the principal heads, i. Almost an the flowers, the herbs, and