OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ■ >.>! vision and prophecy; he unfurled the holy banner; and a rash promise of successtoo hastily dropped from the lips of the apostle. His march from Medina toMecca displayed the peaceful and solemn pomp of a pilgrimage; seventy camels,chosen and bedecked for sacrifice, preceded the van; the sacred territory was re­spected, and the captives were dismissed without ransom to proclaim his clemen­cy and devotion. But no sooner did Mahomet descend into the plain, within aday's journey of the city, than he exclaimed, " they have clothed themselves withthe skins of tigers;" the numbers and resolution of the Koreish opposed his pro­gress; and the roving Arabs of the desert might desert or betray a leader whomthey had followed for the hopes of spoil. The intrepid fanatic sunk into a cooland cautious politician: he waved in the treaty his title of apostle of God, conclu­ded with the Koreish and their allies a truce of ten years, engaged to restore thefugitives of Mecca who should embrace his religion, and stipulated only, for theensuing year, the humble privilege of entering the city as a friend, and of remain­ing three days to accomplish the rites of the pilgrimage. A cloud of shame andsorrow hung on the retreat of the Mussulmans, and their disappointment mightjustly accuse the failure of a prophet who had so often appealed to the evidence ofsuccess. The faith and hope of the pilgrims were rekindled by the prospect ofMecca: their swords were sheathed; seven times in the footsteps of the apostlethey encompassed the Caaba: the Koreish had retired to the hills, and Mahomet,after the customary sacrifice, evacuated the city on the fourth day. The peoplewere edified by his devotion; the hostile chiefs were awed, or divided, or seduced;and both Caled and Amrou, the future conquerors of Syria and Egvpt, most sea­sonably deserted the sinking cause of idolatry. The power of Mahomet was in­creased by the submission of the Arabian tribes: ten thousand soldiers were as­sembled for the conquest of Mecca; and the idolaters, the weaker part, were easi­ly convicted of violating the truce. Enthusiasm and discipline impelled themarch, and preserved the secret, till the blaze of ten thousand fires proclaimedto the astonished Koreish, the design, the approach, and the irresistible force ofthe enemy. The haughty Abu Sophian presented the keys of the city, admiredthe variety of arms and ensigns that passed before him in review; observed thatthe son of Abdallah had acquired a mighty kingdom, and confessed, under thescimitar of Omar, that he was the apostle of the true God. The return of Mariusand Svlla was stained with the blood of the Romans: the revenge of Mahomet wasstimulated by religious zeal, and his injured followers were eager to execute or toprevent the order of a massacre. Instead of indulging their passions and his own,(l)the victorious exile forgave the guilt, and united the factions of Mecca. Histroops, in three divisions, marched into the city; eight and twenty of the inhabi­tants were slain by the sword of Caled: eleven men and six women were pro­scribed by the sentence of Mahomet; but he blamed the cruelty of his lieutenant;and several of the most obnoxious victims were indebted for their lives to his cle­mency or contempt. The chiefs of the Koreish were prostrate at his feet. " Whatmercy can you expect from the man whom you have wronged?—We confide inthe generosity of our kinsman.—And you shall not confide in vain; begone! youare safe, you are free." The people of Mecca deserved their pardon by the pro­fession of Islam; and after an exile of seven years, the fugitive missionary was en­throned as the prince and prophet of his native country.(2) But the three hun­dred and sixty idols of the Caaba were ignominiously broken; the house of Godwas purified and adorned; as an example to future times, the apostle again fulfilledthe duties of a pilgrim: and a perpetual law was enacted, that no unbeliever shoulddare to set his foot on the territory of the holy city. (3) The conquest of Mecca determined the faith and obedience of the Arab fl) After thp conquest of Mecca, the Mahomet of Voltaire imagines and perpetratps the most horrid crimes.The poet confesses, that he is not supported by the truth of history, and can only allege, que celui qui fait laguerre a sa patrie au nom de Diett, est capable de tout. (Oeuvres de Voltaire, torn. xv. p. 282.) The maxim isneither charitable nor philosophic; and some reverence is surely due to the fame of heroes and the religion ofnations. I am informed that a Turkish ambassador at Paris was much scandalized at the representation ofthis tragedy. (2) The Mahometan doctors still dispute, whether Mecca was reduced by lorce or consent (Abulfeda, p. 107.et Gagnier ad locum;) and this verbal controversy is of as much moment as our own about William the Con-Qvtror. (3) In excluding the Christians from thepeninsula of Arabia, the province of Hejaz, or the navigation of theTied Sea, Chardin (Voyages en Perses, torn. iv. p. 156.) and Reland (Dissert. Misccll. torn. iii. p. 51.) are more rigidthan the Mussulmans themselves. The Christians are received without scruple into the ports of Mocha, andeven of Oedda, and it is only the city and precincts of Mecca that are inaccessible to the profane. (Niebulir,Description de 1'Arabic, p. 308,309, Voyage en Arable, torn. i. p. 205,248. &e.)