OCR Output LIVY. has since been found who would follow his example ;all censors having, in case of the death of a colleague,abdicated the office. As for you, neither the expira­tion of the time of your censorship, nor the resignationof your colleague, nor law, nor shame restrains you.Your fortitude is arrogance ; your boldness is a con­tempt of gods and men. Appius Claudius, in consi­deration of the dignity of that office which you haveborne, and of the respect due to it, I should be sorrynot only to offer you personal violence, but even toaddress you in language too severe. With respectto what I have hitherto said, your pride and obstinacyforced me to speak. And now, unless you pay obe­dience to the iEmilian law, I shall order you to be ledto prison. Nor, since a rule has been established byour ancestors, that in the election of censors, unlesstwo shall obtain the legal number of suffrages, neithershall be returned, but the election deferred,—will Isuffer you, who could not singly be created censor, tohold the censorship without a colleague.' Havingspoken to this effect, he ordered the censor to beseized, and borne to prison. But although six of thetribunes approved of the proceeding of their colleague,three gave their support to Appius, on his appealingto them, and he held the censorship alone, to the greatdisgust of all ranks of men. 35. While such was the state of affairs at Rome, theEtrurians had laid siege to Sutrium, and the consulFabius, as he was marching along the foot of themountains, with a design to succor the allies, and at­tempt the enemy's works, if he should see it practica­ble, was met by their army prepared for battle. Thewide extended plain below showing the greatness oftheir force, the consul, in order to remedy his defi­ciency in point of number by advantage of the ground,changed the direction of his route a little towards thehills, where the way was rugged and covered withstones, and then formed his troops facing the enemy.The Etrurians, thinking of nothing but the multitudeof their men, on which alone they depended, advanced