OCR Output 214 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1L, pelled the Turkish monarch to establish three subordi­nate princes of his own blood, who soon forgot theirgratitude and allegiance. The conquerors were ener­vated by luxury, which is always fatal except to an indus­trious people; the policy of China solicited the vanquish­ed nations to resume their independence; and the powerof the Turks was limited to a period of two hundredyears. The revival of their name and dominion in thesouthern countries of Asia, are the events of a later age;and the dynasties, which succeeded to their native realms,may sleep in oblivion; since their history bears no rela­tion to the decline and fall of the Roman empire.15The Avars In the rapid career of conquest, the Turks attackedtheTork*, and subdued the nation of the Ogors or Varchonites oftP^ach the *ne banks of the river Til, which derived the epithet ofempire. black from its dark water or gloomy forests.11 The khanof the Ogors was slain with three hundred thousand ofhis subjects, and their bodies were scattered over thespace of four days' journey ; their surviving countrymenacknowledged the strength and mercy of the Turks; anda small portion, about twenty thousand warriors, prefer­red exile to servitude. They followed the well-knownroad of the Volga, cherished the error of the nationswho confounded them with the Avars, and spread theterror of that false though famous appellation, whichhad not, however, saved its lawful proprietors from theyoke of the Turks.' After a long and victorious march,the new Avars arrived at the foot of mount Caucasus, It For the origin and revolutions of the first Turkish empire, the Chinese detailsare borrowed from De Guignes, (Hist. des Hons, tom. 1. p. 2. p. 367—462.) andVisdelou (Supplement a la Bibliotheque Orient. d'Herbelot, p. 82—114.) TheGreek or Roman hints are gathered in Menander, (p. 108—164.) and TheopbylactSimocatta. (lib. 7. c. 7, 8.) h The river Til, or Tola, according lo the geograpby of De Guignes, (tom. 1. part2. p. 58. and 352.) is a small though grateful stream of the desert, that falls into theOrbon, Selinga, &c. See Bell, Journey from Petersburgh to Pekin ; (vol. 2. p. 124.)yet his own description of the Keat, down which he sailed into the Oby, representsthe name and attributes of the black river, (p. 139.) 'Theopbylact, lib. 7. c. 7, 8. And yet his true Avars are invisible even to theeyes of M. da Guignes; and what can he more illustrious than the/a(se? 'The right«f the fugitive Ogors to that national appellation is confessed by the Turks themselves,(Menander, p. 108.)