OCR Output V7AKS OF THE JEWS. Book I. ran together to Antigonus, and shewed themselves ready to makean incursion into the country ; so he sent them before into thatplace called *Drymus, £the wood-land^], to seize upon the place ;whereupon a battle was fought between them, and they drovethee neaiy away, and pursued them, and ran after them as far asJerusalem, and as their numbers increased, they proceeded as faras the king's palace ; but as Hyrcanus and Phasaelus receivedthem with a strong body of men, there happened a battle in themarket-place, in which Herod's party beat the enemy, and shutthem up in the temple, and set sixty men in the houses adjoiningas a guard on them. But the people that were tumultuous againstthe brethren came in, and burnt those men ; while Herod, in hisrage for killing them, attacked and slew many of the people, tillone party made incursions on the other by turns, day by day, inthe way of ambuihes, and slaughters were made continuallyamong them. 3. Now, when that festival which we call Pentecost was athand, all the places about the temple, and the whole city, wasfull of a multitude of people that were come out of the country,and which were the greatest part of them armed also, at whichtime Phasaelus guarded the wall, and Herod, with a few, guardedthe royal palace ; and when he made an assault upon his ene­mies, as they were out of their ranks, on the north quarter of thecity, he slew a very great number of them, and put them all toflight, and some of them he shut up within the city, and otherswithin the outward rampart. In the mean time Antigonus de­sired that Pacorus might be admitted to be a reconciler betweenthem ; and Phasaelus was prevailed upon to admit the Parthian intothe city with five hundred horse, and to treat him in an hospitablemanner, who pretended that he came to quell the tumult, but inreality he came to assist Antigonus ; however, he laid a plot forFhasaelus, and persuaded him to go as an ambassador to Barza-pharnes, in order to put an end to the war ; although Herod was• very earnest with him to the contrary, and exhorted him to killthe plotter, but not expose himself to the snares he had laid forhim, because the barbarians are naturally perfidious. However,Pacorus went out and took Hyrcanus with him, that he might bethe less suspected ; he also left some of the horsemen f, called the * This large and noted wood, or woodland, belonging to Carmel, calledby the Septuagint, is mentioned in the Old Testament, 2 Kings, xix. 23. and Isa.xxxviii. 24. and by Strabo, B. XVI. p. 758. as both Aldrich and Spanheim hereremark very pertinently. t These accounts, both here fand Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 5. that theParthians fought chiefly on horseback, and that only some few of their sol­diers were "freemen, perfectly agree with Trogus'Pompeius, in Justin, B. XI'!z. 3. as Dean Aldrich well observes on this place.