OCR Output CHAP. L. to the south-east of Mecca, a fortress of strength, whosefertile lands produce the fruits of Syria in the midst ofthe Arabian desert. A friendly tribe, instructed (I knownot how) in the art of sieges, supplied him with a trainof battering-rams and military engines, with a body offive hundred artificers. But it was in vain that he offeredfreedom to the slaves of Tayef; that he violated his ownlaws by the extirpation of the fruit-trees; that the groundwas opened by the miners; that the breach was assaultedby the troops. After a siege of twenty days the prophetsounded a retreat; but he retreated with a song of de­vout triumph, and affected to pray for the repentance andsafety of the unbelieving city. The spoil of this fortunateexpedition amounted to six thousand captives, twenty-four thousand camels, forty thousand sheep, and fourthousand ounces of silver: a tribe who had fought atHonain, redeemed their prisoners by the sacrifice of theiridols; but Mahomet compensated the loss, by resigningto the soldiers his fifth of the plunder, and wished fortheir sake, that he possessed as many head of cattle asthere were trees in the province of Tehama. Instead ofchastising the disaffection of the Koreish,he endeavouredto cut out their tongues (his own expression), and to se­cure their attachment by a superior measure of liberality:Abu Sophian alone was presented with three hundredcamels and twenty ounces of silver; and Mecca was sin­cerely converted to the profitable religion of the Koran.The fugitives and auxiliaries complained, that theywho had bore the burden were neglected in the seasonof victory. Alas (replied their artful leader), suffer meto conciliate these recent enemies, these doubtful proselytes,by the gift of 'some perishable goods. To your guard 1intrust my life and fortunes. You are the companionsof my exile, of my kingdom, of my paradise. He was fol­lowed by the deputies of Tayef, who dreaded the repe­tition of a siege. Grant us, O apostle of God, a truce ofthree years, with the toleration of our ancient worship.— v2