OCR Output 368 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. cut from within the precincts of the temple. They did thesame by the stones and bricks of the adjacent buildingswhich had been demolished, and omitted no expedient togive height and substance to the work. They erected woodenturrets upon such spots as seemed most to require it. No partof the old pile of the temple was now standing: The portico,which stood the longest, had lately fell down. They beganthe work the third day after their marching out from Athens.That day they plied it, and the following, and continued iton the fifth till the time of repast. Then, the work being forthe most part compleated, they drew off their army to the dis­tance of about ten stadia* from Delium, in order to returnhome. Their light-armed indeed, for the most part march­ed off directly, but the heavy-armed halting there sat downupon their arms. Hippocrates stayed behind for the time necessary topost the proper guards, and to put the finishing hand tothose parts of the fortification which were not yet perfectlycompleated. But during all this space the Boeotians hadbeen employed in drawing their forces together to Tanagra.When the quotas from the several cities were come up, andthey perceived the Athenians were filing off towards Athens,the other rulers of Boeotia (for they were eleven in all) de­clared their resolution not to engage, since the enemy is nolonger on Boeotian ground: for the Athenians, when theygrounded their arms, were within the borders of Oropia.But Pagondas, the son of ^Eoladas, one of the Boeotian rulersin the right of Thebes, and at this time in the supreme com­mand, in concert with Arianthidas, the son of Lysimachidas,declared for fighting. He judged it expedient to hazard anengagement; and addressing himself to every battalion apart,lest calling them together might occasion them to abandontheir firms, he prevailed upon the Boeotians to march up tothe Athenians, and to offer battle. His exhortation to eachwas worded thus: • About an English mile.