OCR Output INDIA. 49 INDIA. that he crossed the Indus, and obtained by marriageAnclnteia, Gedrosia, and the Paropamisadae, fromMrucus. (.Strab. xv. p. 724; Appian, Syr. 55.) Itwis to bis court that Megasthenes (as we have before>Uted) was sent. Sandrocottus was succeeded byAmitruchates (Sansc. A mitraghdtas), which is almostcertainly the true form of the name, though Straboait him Allitrochades. He was the contemporaryof Antiochus Soter. (Atlien. xiv. 67.) It is clear,fruiti Athenaeus (£. c). that the same friendship wasmaintained between the two descendants as betweenthe two fathers. Daimachus was sent as ambassadoru Palibothra. (Strab. ii. p. 70.) Then came thewars between the Parthians and Bactrians, and themore complete establishment of the Graeco-Bactriankingdom, under Menander, Apollodotus, Eucratides,and their successors, to which we cannot here do morethan allude. The effect, however, of these wars wasto interrupt communication between the East and theWtst; hence the meagre nature of the historical re­cords of the period. The expedition of Antiochus theGreat to India brought to light the name of anotherkinj, Sophagasenns (Polyb. xi. 32), who was, in allprjoability, king of the Prasii. The Scythians finallypnt an end to the Bactrian empire about B.C. 136.(be Guignes, Mem. de FA cad, d. Inter, xxv. p. 17.)This event is noticed in the Periplus (p. 22), where,however, Parthi must be taken to mean Scythi.(x* also PeriptrtSi p. 24 ; Dionys. Perieg. vv. 1087—1088.) Eustathius adds, in his commentary onDitAiysius :—Of tcad 'IrBotJKvOai <tvv84tq)s \tyop4-roc Minnagara was their chief town, a name, asappears from Isid. Char. ( p 9), which was partlyScythian and partly Sanscrit. (Of. also De Guignes,tc) The Scythians were in their turn driven out ofIndia by Vicrimaditya, about b. c. 56 (Colebrooke,J*d. Algebra, Lond. 1817, p. 43), who establishedhi* seat of empire at Oujeia ( Ujjayinx). At the timewhen the Periplus was compiled, the capital had beenseain changed, as we there read, 'Of^t iv jj xalri BaaiXtta vportpoy %v. It is remarkable that no allusion has been foundin an/ r,f the early literature of the Hindus to Alex­ander the Great; but the effect of the later expeditionsef the Bactrian kings is apparently indicated underU* name of the Yaeana. In the astronomical works,the Yaeana are barbarians who understood astronomy,whence it has been conjectured by Colebrooke thatthe Alexandrians are referred to. (Ind. Algebra,p. 80.) Generally, there can be no doubt that theYiiraita mean nations to the \V. of India. Thus, inthe ILthabhirata, they make war on the Indians, incenjuDctuin with the Puradi (i. e. Parthi), and theSacae or Scythians. ( Lassen, Pen/ap. p. 60.) In theiJrama of the Mudra-Raxasa, which refers to thewar between ChandragtipLa and another Indian King,it a stated that Cusurnapura (i. e. Palibothra) wasmmiami«l by the Cirratae, Yavani,Cambogi, Persac,Bactrians, and the other forces of Chandragupta, andtbe king of the Mountain Regions. Lassen thinks,with much reason, that this refers to Seleucus, who,is bis «*r with Chandragupta, reached, as we know,raobothra. (Plin. vi. 17.) With regard to the commerce of ancient India,*hkh we have every reason to suppose was veryexieotive, it is impot*ibIe in this place to do more thanto indicate a few of the principal facts. Indeed, thefTmmerceof India, including the northern and the* cithern dutricta, may be considered as an epitome"'tae tornmercc of the world, there being few pro-vat n. duct inns of any other country which may not befound somewhere within its vast area. The principal directions in which the commerce ofancient India flowed were, between Western Indiaand Africa, between the interior of the Deccan andthe out ports of the southern and western coast ofthe Indian Ocean, between Ceylon and the ports ofthe Coromandel coast, between the Coromandelcoast and the Aurea Chersonesus, and, in the N.,along the Ganges and into T^tary and the territoryof the Sinae. There appears also to have been aremarkable trade with the opposite coast of Africa,along the district now called Zanguebar, in sesamum,rice, cotton goods, cane-honey (sugar), which wasregularly sent from the interior of Ariai-a (Concan)to Barygaza (Beroack), and thence westward. (Pe~rtpL p. 8.) Arab sailors are mentioned who livedat Muza (Mocha), and who traded with Barygaza.(Peripl. p. 12.) Banians of India had establishedthemselves on the N. side of Socotra, called the islandof Dioscorides (Peripl. p. 17): while, even so earlyas Agatharchides, there was evidently an active com­merce between Western India and Yemen. (Aga-tharch. p. 66, ed. Hudson.) Again, the rapidity withwhich Alexander got his fleet together seems toshow that there must have been a considerable com­merce by boats upon the Indus. At the time of tin:Periplus there was a chain of ports along the westerncoast, — Barygaza (Beroach), Muziris in Limyrica(Mangalore), Nelkynda (Neliceram), Pattala (oncesupposed to be Tatta, but much more probably Hy-drabdd), and Callicne, now Galium (Peripl. p. 30):while there were three principal emporia for mer­chandise, — Ozene (Qujtin), the chief mart offoreign commerce, (vide an interesting account ofits ruins, Asiat. Be*, vol. vi. p. 36), and for thetransmission of the goods to Barygaza; Tagara, inthe interior of the Deccan (almost certainly I)eu-ghiror Devanagari near EUora), whence the goodswere conveyed over difficult roads to Barygaza andPluthana or Plithana, a place the exact position ofwhich cannot now be determined, but, from the cha­racter of the products of the place, must have beensomewhere in the Ghats. Along the llegio Paralia to the S., and on theCoromandel coast, were several ports of consequence;and extensive pearl fisheries in the kingdom of kingPandion, near Colchi, and near the island of Epio-dorus, where the mrruroV (a silky thread spun fromthe Pinna-fish) was procured. (Peripl. p. 33).Further to the N. were, — Masalia (Masulipatam),famous for its cotton goods (Peripl. p. 35); andGauge, a great mart for muslin, betel, pearls, &c,somewhere near the mouth of the Ganges, its exactlocality, however, not being now determinable.(Peripl. p. 36.) The commerce of Ceylon (Selandib,i. e. Sinhala-dwipd) was in pearls of the best class,and precious stones of all kinds, especially the rubyand the emerald. The notices in Ptolemy and Plinyshew that its shores were well furnished with com­mercial towns (Ptol. vii. 4. §§ 3, 4,5), while we knowfrom the narrative of Cosmas Indicopleustes (up.\ Montfaucon, Coll. Nova BibL Patr. vol. ii.) that itwas, in the sixth century A,r>., the centre of Hinducommerce. Besides these places, we learn that therewas an emporium upon the Coromandel coast, wIi-mkuthe merchant ships crossed over to Chryse (in allprobability Malacca), in the Aurea Chersonesus; thename of it, however, is not specified. It is probable, however, that the greatest line ofcommerce was from the N. and W. along the K