OCR Output C. II.] TITUS AT JERUSALEM. 165 and very properly named Scopus [the prospect,] and was nomore than seven furlongs distant from it. And here it wasthat Titus ordered a camp to be fortified for two legions thatwere to be together ; but ordered another camp to be fortified,at three furlongs farther distance behind them, for the fifthlegion; for he thought that, by marching in the night, theymight be tired, and might deserve to be covered from theenemy, and with less fear might fortify themselves; and asthese were now beginning to build, the tenth legion, whichcame through Jericho, was already come to the place, wherea certain party of armed men had formerly lain, to guardthat pass into the city, and had been taken before by Ves­pasian. These legions had orders to encamp at the distanceof six furlongs from Jerusalem, at the mount called the Mountof Olives,'' which lies over against the city on the east side,and is parted from it by a deep valley interposed betweenthem, which is named Cedron. 4. Now, when hitherto the several parties in the city hadbeen dashing one against another perpetually, this foreignwar, now suddenly come upon them after a violent manner,put the first step to their contentions one against another:and as the seditious now saw with astonishment the Romanspitching three several camps, they began to think of an awk­ward sort of concord, and said one to another, — "What dowe here, and what do we mean when we suffer three fortifiedwalls to be built to coop us in, that we shall not bo able tobreathe freely ? while the enemy is securely building a kindof city in opposition to us, and while we sit still within ourown walls, and become spectators only of what they are doing,with our hands idle, and our armor laid by, as if they wereabout somewhat that was for our own good and advantage.We are, it seems (so did they cry out,) only courageousagainst ourselves, while the Romans are likely to gain thecity without bloodshed by our sedition." Thus did they en­ 1 This situation of the Mount of Olives on the east of Jerusalem, at about.the distance of five or six furlongs, with the valley of Cedron interposedbetween that mountain and the city, are things well known, both in the Oldand New Testament, in Josophus elsewhere, and in all the descriptions ofPalestine.