OCR Output 492 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in their power to abuse my dead body, theywill do it no injury at all, and thou wilt rulein safety." *So when he had given his wifethis advice, he died: after he had reignedftwenty-seven years, and lived forty-nine. CHAP. XVI. OF ALEXANDRA S CONDUCT TOWARD THE PHARISEES; HERGOVERNMENT AND DEATH. ALEXANDRA, having taken the fortress,acted as her husband had suggested;and spake to the Pharisees, and put all thingsinto their power; both as to the dead body,and as to the affairs of the kingdom: andthereby pacified their anger against Alex­ander, and made them bear good will andfriendship to him. Accordingly they cameamong the multitude, and laid before themthe actions of Alexander; and told them thatthey had lost a righteous king: and by thecommendations they gave him, they broughtthem to grieve, and to be in heaviness forhim: so that he had a funeral more splendidthan had any of his predecessors. Alexan­der left behind him two sons, Hyrcanus andAristobulus; but committed the kingdom toAlexandra. Now as to these two sons, Hyr­canus was indeed unable to manage publicaffairs, and delighted rather in quiet life.But the younger, Aristobulus, was an activeand a bold man. And Alexandra was be­loved by the multitude, because she seemeddispleased at the offences her husband hadbeen guilty of. So she made Hyrcanus high-priest, becausehe was the elder, but more particularly be­cause he cared not to meddle with politics;and she permitted the Pharisees to do everything, requiring the multitude to be obedient < * It seems by this dying advice of Alexander Janneusto his wife, that he had himself pursued the measures ofhis father Hyrcanus, and taken part with the Sadducees;who closely adhered to the written law; against the Pha­risees, who had introduced their own traditions: seechap. 16. and that he now saw a political necessity ofsubmitting to the Pharisees, and their traditions hereafter,if his widow and family wished to retain their monarchi­cal government, or tyranny over the Jewish nation.Which sect yet, thus supported, were at last in a greatmeasure the ruin of the religion, government, and nationof the Jews: and brought them into so wicked a state, thatthe vengeance of God came upon them, to their utterexcision. Just thus did Caiaphas politically advise the to them. She also restored those practiceswhich the Pharisees had introduced, accord­ing to the traditions of their forefathers; andwhich her father-in-law, Hyrcanus, had abro­gated: so she had the name of the regent,but the Pharisees had the authority. For itwas they who restored such as had beenbanished, and set such as were prisoners atliberty: and in short they differed nothingfrom lords. The queen, however, took careof the affairs of the kingdom, and got toge­ther a great body of mercenary soldiers, andincreased her own army to such a degree,that she became terrible to the neighbouringtyrants; and took hostages of them. Andthe country was entirely at peace; exceptingthe Pharisees, for they disturbed the queen,and desired that she would kill those whopersuaded Alexander to slay the eight hun­dred men.J After which they cut the throatof one of them, named Diogenes; and afterhim they did the same to several, one afteranother; till the men that were the mostpotent came into the palace, and Aristobuluswith them: for he seemed to be displeased atwhat was done; and it appeared openly, thatif he had an opportunity, ne would not permithis mother to go on so. These reminded thequeen of the great dangers they had gonethrough, and the great things they had done:whereby they had demonstrated the firmnessof their fidelity to their master: insomuchthat they had received the greatest marks offavour from him. And they begged of her,that she would not utterly blast their hopes,as it now happened, that when they had es­caped the hazards that arose from their openenemies, they were to be cut off at home,by their private enemies, like brute beasts,without any assistance. They said also, that iftheir adversaries would be satisfied with those Jewish Sanhedrim; John xi. 50. "That it was expe­dient for them that one man should die for the people;and that the whole nation perish not." And this in con­sequence of their own political supposal, verse 48, that"If they let Jesus alone, with his miracles, all men wouldbelieve on him; and the Romans would come and takeaway both their place and nation." Which political cru»cifixion of Jesus of Nazareth brought down the vengeanceof God upon them; and occasioned those very Romans,of whom they seemed so much afraid, that to prevent itthey put him to death, actually to come and take awayboth their place and nation, within 38 years afterwards t From an. 105 to an. 79 B. C. \ An. 77.