OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 105 against reform, but turned away with horror from such con­federates, and ordered his four sons to carry the bier of hisgreat antagonist to the funeral pile. The funeral was hurriedover; with veiled head the last of the family of the con­queror of Zama was borne forth, without any one havingbeen previously allowed to see the face of the deceased, andthe flames of the funeral pile consumed the remains of theillustrious hero and with them the traces of the crime. The history of Rome presents various men of greatergenius than Scipio jEmilianus, but none equalling him inmoral purity, in the utter absence of political selfishness, ingenerous love of his country, and none, perhaps, to whom des­tiny has assigned a more tragic part. Conscious of the bestintentions and of no common abilities, he was doomed tosee the ruin of his country carried out before his eyes, andto repress within him every serious attempt to save it,because he clearly perceived that he should only therebyaggravate the evil; doomed to the necessity of sanctioningoutrages like that of Nasica, and at the same time ofdefending the work of the victim against his murderers.Tet he might say that he had not lived in vain. It was tohim, at least quite as much as to the author of the Sempro-nian law, that the Roman burgess-body was indebted for anincrease of nearly 80,000 new farm allotments ; he it was too,who put a stop to that distribution of the domains when ithad produced such benefit as it could produce. That it wastime to leave it off, was no doubt disputed at the moment evenby well-meaning men; but the fact that Gaius Gracchus didnot seriously recur to those possessions which might have beenand yet were not distributed under the law of his brother,tells very strongly in favour of the belief that Scipio hit sub­stantially the right moment. Both measures were extortedfrom the parties—the first from the aristocracy, the secondfrom the friends of reform; the latter its author paid forwith his life. It was his lot to fight for his country onmany a battle-field and to return home uninjured, thathe might perish there by the hand of an assassin; but inhis quiet chamber he no less died for Rome than if he hadfallen beneath the walls of Carthage. The distribution of land was at an end; the revolu- Democratiction went on. The revolutionary party, which possessed in the agitationallotment-commission as it were a constituted set of leaders, underCarbohad even in Scipio's lifetime skirmishes now and then with