OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 879 he had built, and at the fortresses which he had erected at greatexpense, Alexandrium, and Herodium, and Hyrcania. He alsoconducted him to the city Jerusalem, where all the people methim in their festival garments, and received him with acclama­tions. Agrippa also offered a hecatomb of sacrifices to God;and feasted the people, without omitting any of the greatestdainties that could be gotten. He also took so much pleasurethere, that he abode many days with them, and would willinglyhave staid longer, but that the season of the year made himmake haste away; for, as winter was coming on, he thought itnot safe to go to sea later, and yet he was of necessity to return-again to Ionia. 2. So Agrippa went away, when Herod had bestowed on him,and on the principal of those that were with him, many presents-,but king Herod, when he had passed the winter in his own do­minions, made haste to get to him again in the spring, when heknew he designed to go to a campaign at the Bosphorus. Sowhen he had sailed by Rhodes, and by Cos, he touched at Les­bos, as thinking he should have overtaken Agrippa there, buthe was taken short here by a northwind, which hindered hisship from going to the shore; so he continued many days atChios, and there he kindly treated a great many that came tohim, and obliged them by giving them royal gifts. And whenhe saw that the portico of the city was fallen down, which, asit was overthrown in the Mithridatic war, and was a very largeand fine building, so was it not so easy to rebuild that, as it wasthe rest, yet did he furnish a sum not only large enough for thatpurpose, but what was more than sufficient to finish the build­ing, and ordered them not to overlook that portico, but to re­build it quickly, that so the city might recover its proper orna­ments. And when the high winds were laid, he sailed to Mity-lene, and thence to Byzantium; and when he heard that Agrippawas sailed beyond the Cyanean rocks, he made all the haste pos­sible to overtake him, and came up with him about Sinope, inPontus. He was seen sailing by the shipmen most unexpectedly,but appeared to their great joy; and many friendly salutationsthere were between them, insomuch that Agrippa thoughthe had received the greatest marks of the king's kindness andhumanity towards him possible, since the king had come so longa voyage, and at a very proper season for his assistance, and hadleft the government of his own dominions, and thought it moreworth his while to come to him. Accordingly, Herod was allin all to Agrippa, in the management of the war, and a greatassistant in civil affairs, and in giving him counsel as to parti­cular matters. He was also a pleasant companion for him whenhe relaxed himself- and a joint partaker with him in all things: VOL. u. SB 27