OCR Output 2TO WARS OF THE JEWS. . Book I. been the means of hindering the multitude that was in the coun­try from fighting for Aristobulus, which they were otherwisevery ready to have done ; by which means he acted the part ofa good general, and reconciled the people to him more by bene­volence than by terror. Now, among the captives, Aristobulus'sfather-in-law was taken, who was also his uncle : so those thatwere the moft guilty he punished with decollation ; but reward­ed Faustus, and those with him that had fought so bravely, withglorious presents, and laid a tribute upon the country and uponJerusalem itself. 7. He also took away from the nation all those cities they hadformerly taken, and that belonged to Celesyria, and made themsubject to him that was at that time appointed to be the Romanpresident there, and reduced Judea within its proper bounds.He also rebuilt* Gadara, that had been demolished by the Jews,in order to gratify one Demetrius, who was of Gadara, and wasone of his own freed-men. He also made other cities free fromtheir dominion, that lay in the midst of the country, such, Imean, as they had not demolished before that time, Hippos, andScythopolis, as also Pella, and Samaria, and Marissa ; and be­sides these, Ashdod, and Jamnia, and Arethusa ; and in like man­ner dealt he with the maritime cities, Gaza, and Joppa, and Do­ra, and thnt which was anciently called Strata1* Tower; but wasafterward rebuilt with the most magnificent edifices, and hadits name changed to Cesarta by king Herod. All which he re­stored to their own citizens, and put them under the province of.Syria ; which province, together with Judea, and the countriesas far as Egypt and Euphrates, he committed to Scaurus as theirgovernor, and gave him two legions to support him ; while hemade all the haste he could himself .to go through Celicia, in hisway to Rome, having Aristobulus and his children along withhim, as his captives. They were two daughters and two sons ;the one of which sons, Alexander, ran away as he was going ; butthe younger, Antigonus, with his sisters, were carried to Rome. CHAP. VIII. Alexander, the son of Aristobulus,, who ran away from Pompey,makes an expedition against Hyrcanus ,• but being overcome byGabinius, be delivers up the fortresses to Jnm. After this Aris­tobulus escapes from Rome, and gathers an army together ,- butbeing beaten by the Romans, be is brought back to Rome ; -withother things relating to Gabinius, Crassus, and Cassiut.§ 1. 1N the mean time, Scaurus made an expedition into Arabia,•*, but was stopped by the difficulty of the places about Petra. * The coin of this Gadara, still extant, with its date from this aera, is a cer-tain evidence of this its rebuilding by Pompey, as Spanheirn here assures us.