OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 101 tila with an insulting smile, " your pride now condescends to become a suppliant.""I am a suppliant," replied the prudent archdeacon: " God has now made us yoursubjects, and as your subjects we are entitled to your clemency." At this humbleprayer, the lives of the Romans were spared; and the chastity of the maids andmatrons was preserved inviolate from the passions of the hungry soldiers. Butthey were rewarded by the freedom of pillage, after the most precious spoils hadbeen reserved for the royal treasury. The nouses of the senators were plentifullystored with gold and silver; and the avarice of Bessas had laboured with so muchguilt and shame for the benefit of the conqueror. In this revolution, the sons anddaughters of Roman consuls tasted the misery which they had spurned or relieved,"wandered in tattered garments through the streets of the city, and begged theirbread, perhaps without success, before the gates of their hereditary mansions. Theriches of Rusticiana, the daughter of Symmachus and widow of Boethius, hadbeen generously devoted to alleviate the calamities of famine. But the barbarianswere exasperated by the report, that she had prompted the people to overthrowthe statues of the great Theodoric; and the life of that venerable matron wouldhave been sacrificed to his memory, if Totila had not respected her birth, hervirtues, and even the pious motive of her revenge. The next day he pronouncedtwo orations, to congratulate and admonish his victorious Goths, and reproach thesenate, as the vilest of slaves, with their perjury, folly, and ingratitude; sternlydeclaring, that their estates and honours were justly forfeited to the companionsof his arms. Yet he consented to forgive their revolt, and the senators repaid hisclemency by despatching circular letters to their tenants and vassals in the pro­vinces of Italy, strictly to enjoin them to desert the standard of the Greeks, to cul-'tivate their lands in peace, and to learn from their masters the duty of obedienceto a Gothic sovereign. Against the cities which had so long delayed the courseof his victories he appeared inexorable: one-third of the walls, in different parts,■were demolished by his command; fire and engines prepared to consume or sub­vert, the most stately works of antiquity: and the world was astonished by the fa­tal decree, that Rome should be changed into a pasture for cattle. The firm andtemperate remonstrance of Belisarius suspended the execution; he warned thebarbarian not to sully his fame by the destruction of those monuments, which werethe glory of the dead, and the delight of the living; and Totila was persuaded,by the advice of an enemy, to preserve Rome as the ornament of his kingdom, orthe fairest pledge of peace and reconciliation. When he had signified to the am­bassadors of Belisarius, his intention of sparing the city, he stationed an army atthe distance of one hundred and twenty furlongs, to observe the motions of the Ro­man general. With the remainder of his forces, he marched into Lucania andApulia, and occupied, on the summit of mount Garganus.(l) one of the camps ofHannibal. (2) The senators were dragged in his train, and afterwards confined inthe fortresses of Campania: the citizens, with their wives and children, were dis­persed in exile; and during forty days Rome was abandoned to desolate and drearysolitude. (3) The loss of Rome was speedily retrieved by an action, to which, according to theevent, the public opinion would apply the names of rashness or heroism. Afterthe departure of Totila, the Roman general sallied from the port at the head of athousand horse, cut in pieces the enemy who opposed his progress, and visited withpity and reverence the vacant space of the eternal city. Resolved to maintain astation so conspicuous in the eyes of mankind, he summoned the greatest part of histroops to the standard which he erected on the capital: the old inhabitants wererecalled by the love of their country and the hopes of food; and the keys of Romewere sent a second time to the emperor Justinian. The walls, as far as they hadbeen demolished by the Goths, were repaired with rude and dissimilar materials;the ditch was restored; iron spikes(4) were profusely scattered in the highways (1) Mount Garganns, now Monte St. Angelo,in tlie kingdom of Naples, runs three hundred stadia into theAdriatic sea (Strab. lib. vi. p. 436.,) and in the darker ages, was illustrated by the apparition, miracles, andchurch of St. Michael the archangel. Horace, a native of Apulia or Lucania, had seen the elms and oaks ofGarganus labouring and bellowing with the north wind that blew on that lofty coast (Carol, ii. 9. Epist.ii. 1.301.} , (2) I cannot ascertain this particular camp of Hannibal: but the Funic quarters were long and often in theneighbourhood of Arpi (T. Liv. xxii. 9.12. 24. 3, &c.) (3) Totila .... Romam ingreditur ac evertit mnros domos aliquantas igni comburens, ae omnes Romanorum res in proedam accepit, hos ipsos Romanns in Campaniam captivos abduxit. Post quam devasta-tionem.xl autampHus dies, Rama fuit ita desolala, ut nemo ibi hominum,nisi (nulla?) bestise raorarentur(Marcellin.in Chron. p. 54.) (4) The tribuli are small engines with four spikes, one fixed in the ground, the three others erect or adverse