OCR Output Chap. XXIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. :941 pater with all his might, as to that law-suit which Nicolaus hadwith him before. This Sylleus had also a great contest withAretas his own king; for he had slain many others of Aretas'sfriends, and particularly Sohemus, the most potent man in ihecity Petra. Moreover, he had prevailed with Phabatus, whowas Herod's steward,' by giving him a great sum of money toassist him against Herod; but when Herod gave him more, heinduced him to leave Sylleus, and by his means he demanded ofhim all that Caesar had required of him to pay. But when Syl­leus paid nothing of what he was to pay, and did also accusePhabatus to Caesar, and said that he was not a steward for Cae­sar's advantage, but for Herod's, Phabatus was angry at him onthat account, but was still in very great esteem with Herod, anddiscovered Sylleus's grand secrets,and told the king that Sylleushad corrupted Corinthus, one of the guards of his body, bybribing him, and of whom he must therefore have a care. Ac­cordingly the king complied, for this Corinthus, though hewere brought up in Herod's kingdom, yet was he by birth anArabian, so they king ordered him to be taken up immediately,and not only him, but two other Arabians, who were caughtwith him; the one of them was Sylleus's friend, the other thehead of a tribe. The last being put to the torture, confessedthat they had prevailed with Corinthus, for a large sum of mo­ney to kill Herod; and when they had been farther examinedbefore Saturninus the president of Syria, they were sent to Rome.4. However, Herod did not leave off importuning Pheroras,but proceeded to force him to put away his wife; yet could henot devise any way by which he could bring the woman herselfto punishment, although he had many causes of hatred to her ;till at length he was in such great uneasiness at her, that he castboth her and his brother out of his kingdom. Pheroras took thisinjury very patiently, and went away into his own tetrarchy[Perea beyond Jordan], and sware that there should be but oneend put to his flight, and that should be Herod's death ; and thathe would never return while he was alive. Nor indeed wouldhe return when his brother was sick, although he earnestly sentfor him to come to him, because he had a mind to leave someinjunctions with him before he died; but Herod unexpectedlyrecovered. A little afterward Pheroras himself fell sick, whenHerod shewed great moderation ; for he came to him and pitiedhis case, and took care of him; but his affection for him did himho good, for Pheroras died a little afterward. Now, thoughHerod had so gi'eat an affection for him to the last day of hislife, yet was a report spread abroad that he had killed him bypoison. However, he took care to have his dead body carried• to