OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 237 should see the troops advance into the water theyshould fall on them: his infantry he formed on thebank, with forty elephants in their front. The Carpe-tans, with the addition of the Olcadians and Vaccaeans,were one hundred thousand in number; an army notto be overcome, if a fight were to take place in an openplain. These being naturally of an impetuous temper,and confiding in their numbers, believing also that theenemy's retreat was owing to fear, and thinking thatthere was no obstruction to their gaining an immediatevictory but the river lying in their way, they raised theshout, and without orders rushed from all parts into it,every one by the shortest way. At the same time avast body of cavalry pushed from the opposite bankinto the river, and the conflict began in the middle ofthe channel, where they fought on very unequal terms:for in such a situation the infantry, not being secure offooting, and scarcely able to bear up against the stream,were liable to be borne down by any shock from thehorse, though the rider were unarmed, and took notrouble; whereas a horseman, having his limbs at li­berty, and his horse moving steadily, even through themidst of the eddies, could act either in close fight or ata distance. Great numbers were swallowed up in thecurrent; while several, whom the eddies of the rivercarried to the Carthaginians' side, were trodden todeath by the elephants. The hindmost, who couldmore safely retreat to their own bank, attempting tocollect themselves into one body from the various partsto which their terror and confusion had dispersed them,Hannibal, not to give them time to recover from theirconsternation, marched into the river with his infantryin close order, and obliged them to fly from the bank.Then, by ravaging their country, he reduced the Car-petans also, in a few days, to submission. And nowall parts of the country beyond the Iberus, except theterritory of Saguntum, was under subjection to theCarthaginians. 6. [A. U. C. 534. B. C. 218.] As yet there was nowar with the Saguntines; but disputes, which seemed