OCR Output CXI.] ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES. 219 followed by his deeds. In answer to which the seditious castreproaches upon Caesar himself, and upon his father also, andcried out with a loud voice, that " they contemned death, anddid well in preferring it before slavery; that they would doall the mischief to the Romans they could while they hadbreath in them ; and that for their own city, since they were,as he said, to be destroyed, they had no concern about it, andthat the world itself w;is a better temple to God than this:that yet this temple.would bo preserved by him that inhabitedtherein, whom they still had for their assistant in this war,and did, therefore, laugh at all his threatenings, which wouldcome to nothing; because the conclusion of the whole dependedupon God only." These words were mixed with reproaches,and with them they made a mighty clamor. 3. In the mean time Antiochus Epiphanes came to the city,having with him a considerable number of other armed men,and a band called the Macedonian Band about him, all ofthe same age, tall and just past their childhood, armed, andinstructed after the Macedonian manner, whence it was thatthey took that name. Yet were many of them unworthy ofso famous a nation; for it had so happened that the king ofCommagena had nourished more than any other kings thatwere under the power of the Romans, till a change happenedin his condition; and when he was become an old man, hedeclared plainly, that we ought not to call any man happybefore he was dead. But this son of his, who was then comethither before his father was decaying, said, that " he couldnot but wonder what made the Romans so tardy in makingtheir attacks upon the wall." Now he was a warlike man,and naturally hold in exposing himself to dangers; he wasalso so strong a man, that his boldness seldom failed ofhaving success; upon this Titus smiled, and said: " Hewould share the pains of an attack with him." However,Antiochus went as he then was, and with his Macedoniansmade a sudden assault upon the wall; and, indeed, for hisown part, his strength and skill were so great, that he guardedhimself from the Jewish darts, and yet shot his darts at them,while yet the young men with him were almost all sorely