OCR Output 452 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. original, but a little of their language, and that too cor­rupted. CHAP. XXXIV. In continuation. JL HE history which "I have been able to collect ofthe descent of the Gauls into Italy, is as follows: Dur­ing the reign of Tarquinius Priscus at Rome, the Bitu-riges had the supreme authority among the Celue, whoinhabited a third part of Gaul,* and gave them a kingcalled Ambigatus, a very powerful prince, both on ac­count of his personal bravery, and fortune, public andprivate; who finding that the part of Gaul of which hewas sovereign, was so overstocked with produce as wellas inhabitants, that it was next to impossible to manage/ --them, signified to Bellovisus and Sigovisus, his sister's'sons, two active young fellows, as he was now an oldman, and wished to get clear of a troublesome crowd,that he resolved to send them into whatever settlementsthe gods by augury should direct. They might rais«what number of "men they pleased, that no nation,wherever they came, might be able to repel them. The Herniciau forest (a) fell by lot to Sigovisus, batthe gods pointed out to Bellovisus a wore agreeableroad to Italy. He assembled the Bituriges (A), Averni (c),Senones (d), jEqui (e), Ambarri (/), Carnutes (g), andAulerci (/<), because these cantons were overstocked withpeople. * Gaul was divided into three parts, and inhabited by three dis­tinct sorts of people, the Belgse, the Gauls or Celts', and the Aqui-1*ni. tietsic Gaut was bounded by ihe Seine, the Marne, the moun­tains of Vague, the Rhine, and the ocean. Cettic Gaul, by theocean, the Seine, the IVIarne, the Soane, the Rhone, and the Ga­ronne; and Aquitanic Gaul, by the ocean, the Garrionne, and thePyrenees. Modem Gaul has a fourth, namely Provence, wherethe Massilians landed and founded the city Marseiltes. (a) This forest covered a great part of the ancient Germany,commencing at the banks of the Rhine, and in Suabia, where it i*calted at this day the Black Forest, and extending beyond Bohemia. (k) People who inhabited Bourges. (c) Auvergne. ('0 Senonois. (e) Antonsis. (/) Charlois. (g) Cbartres.(A) Evreux. -.