OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. seven fortresses were built in the most accessible passes,to exclude the ambition of the Persian monarch.p Theprinciple source of the Euphrates descends from theChalybian mountains, and seems to flow towards thewest and the Euxine; bending to the south-west, theriver passes under the walls of Satala and Melitene(which were restored by Justinian as the bulwarks ofthe Lesser Armenia), and gradually approaches the Me­diterranean sea; till at length repelled by mount Taurus,'1the Euphrates inclines his long and flexible course to thesouth-east and the gulph of Persia* Among the Romancities beyond the Euphrates, we distinguish two recentfoundations, which were named from Theodosius, andthe relics of the martyrs; and two capitals, Amida andEdessa, which are celebrated in the history of every age.Their strength was proportioned, by Justinian, to thedanger of their situation. A ditch and palisade mightbe sufficient to resist the artless force of the cavalry ofScythia; but more elaborate works were required to sus­tain a regular siege against the arms and treasures of thegreat king. His skilful engineers understood the me­thods of conducting deep mines, and of raising platformsXo the level of the rampart: he shook the strongest bat­tlements with his military engines, and sometimes ad­vanced to the assault with a line of moveable turrets onthe backs of elephants. In the great cities of the east,the disadvantage of space, perhaps of position, was com­pensated by the zeal of the people, who seconded thegarrison in the defence of their country and religion;and the fabulous promise of the Son of God, that Edes­sa should never be taken, filled the citizens with violentconfidence, and chilled the besiegers with doubt and dis­may/ The subordinate towns of Armenia and Meso- P Procopius, Persic. lib. i. c. 15. De Edjfic. lib. 3. c. 6. <l Ni Tanrus obstet in nostra maria Venturas, (Pomponias Mela, 3. 8.) Pliny, apoet as well as a naturalist, (v. 20.) personifies the river and monntain, and describestheir combat. See the coarse of the Tigris and Euphrates, in the excellent treatisedf d'Anville. 'Procopius (Persic, lib. 2. c. 12.) tells the story with the tone half sceptical, half