OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. mankind: perhaps she inflamed, at first by modest de­lays, and at last by sensual allurements, the desires of alover, who from nature or devotion was addicted to longvigils and abstemious diet. When his first transportshad subsided, she still maintained the same ascendantover his mind, by the more solid merit of temper andunderstanding. Justinian delighted to ennoble and en­rich the object of his affection; the treasures of the eastwere poured at her feet, and the nephew of Justin wasdetermined, perhaps by religious scruples, to bestow onhis concubine the sacred and legal character of a wife.But the laws of Rome expressly prohibited the marriageof a senator with any female who had been dishonouredby a servile origin or theatrical profession: the empressLupicina, or Euphemia, a barbarian of rustic manners,but of irreproachable virtue, refused to accept a prosti­tute for her niece: and even Vigilantia, the supersti­tious mother of Justinian, though she acknowledgedthe wit and beauty of Theodora, was seriously appre­hensive, lest the levity and arrogance of that artful para­mour might corrupt the piety and happiness of her so»>These obstacles were removed by the inflexible constancyof Justinian. He patiently expected the death of theempress; he despised the tears of his mother, who soonsunk under the weight of her affliction; and a law waspromulgated in the name of the emperor Justin, whichabolished the rigid jurisprudence of antiquity* A glo­rious repentance (the words of the edict) was left openfor the unhappy females who had prostituted their per­sons on the theatre, and they were permitted to contracta legal union with the most illustrious of the Romans.0This indulgence was speedily followed by the solemnnuptials of Justinian and Theodora; her dignity wasgradually exalted with that of her lover; and, as soon as e See Ibe old law in Justinian's Code, (lib. 5. tit. 5. leg. 7. tit. lVJ. leg. 1.) under.the years 336 and 454. The new edict (about the year 5SJ1 or btt. Aloman. p. 38.•96.) very awkwardly repeals no more than the clause of mulicres scen'tcje, libtrtina?,Ubernariae. See the novels til) and 117, and a Creek rescript from Jusliniaii to thehishops. (Aleniau. p. 41.)