OCR Output 274 PRECEDING SIGNS. [B. VI. before the Jews' rebellion, and before those commotions whichpreceded the war, when the people were come in great crowdsto the feast of unleavened bread, on the eighth day' of themonth Xanthicus [Nisan,] and at the ninth hour of the night,so great a light shone round the altar and the holy house, thatit appeared to be bright day-time, which light lasted for halfan hour. This light seemed to bo a good sign to the unskilful,but was so interpreted by the sacred scribes as to portendthose events that followed immediately upon it. At the samefestival also, a heifer, as she was led by the high-priest to besacrificed, brought forth a Iamb in the midst of the temple.Moreover, the eastern gate of the inner [court of the temple,]which was of brass, and vastly heavy, and had been with diffi­culty shut by twenty men, and rested upon a basis armed withiron, and had bolts fastened very deep into the firm floor,which was there made of one entire stone, was seen to beopened of its own accord about the sixth hour of the night.Now those that kept wateh in the temple came hereupon run­ning to the captain of the temple, and told him of it, who thencame up thither, and not without great difficulty was able toshut the gate again. This also appeared to the vulgar to bea very happy prodigy, as if God did thereby open them thegate of happiness. But the men of learning understood it,that the security of their holy house was dissolved of its ownaccord, and that the gato «as opened for the advantage oftheir enemies. So these publicly declared that the signal fore­showed the desolation that was coming upon them. Besidesthese, a few days after that feast, on the one and twentiethday of the month Artemisius [Jyar,] a certain prodigious andincredible phenomenon appeared: 1 suppose the account of itwould seem to be a fable, were it not related by those thatsaw it, and were not the events that followed it of so consid­ 1 Since Josephus still used the S^ro-Macedoniau month Xanthicus for theJewish month Nisan, this 8th, or, as Nicephorus read it, this ninth of Xan­thicus or Nisan was almost a week before the Passover on the 14th : aboutwhich time wo learn from St. Johu, that many used to go out of the country toJerusalem to purify themselves, John xi. 55, with xii. 1, in agreement with Jo-sepbus also. 1i. v. ch. iii. sect. 1. And it might well be, that in the sigbt ofthese this extraordinary Tght might appear.