OCR Output 34S NOTES ON THE Page 64. Mimnermus.] Mimnermus was an elegiac poetof Colophon, and, according to Suidas, was the son of Ligyrti-ades; hut ■according to others he was a Smyrnsean. He flou­rished about the time of Solon, and besides elegies wrote onamatorial subjects, as we learn from Propertius and Horace. Atpresent, however, nothing more than fragments of the works ofthis poet remain. Page 64. Linus."] Linus, according to Suidas, was a poet ofChalcis, and the first that brought the knowledge of lettersfrom Phœnicia to Greece. He taught Hercules letters, andis said to have ranked as the prince of lyric poets. Two frag­ments are all the remains of his works at present Page 67. That Orpheus was the son of the Muse Calliope.']How this is to be understood, the reader may learn by con­sulting the note on p. 46. of Vol. L of this work. For anaccount of Orpheus, fee the Dissertation prefixed to my Trans­lation of the Orphic Hymns. Page 6g. With respect to the hymns of Orpheus, Z?c] Fabriciusand others are of opinion, that the Orphic hymns which are nowextant are the very hymns mentioned in this place by Pausanias.But surely, if this were the cafe, Pausanias would not fay, thatthe whole of the hymns of Orpheus does not amount to any coiifidtr-able number; for how can eighty-six, the number of the Orphichymns now extant, be called an inconsiderable number? Page 72. They fay that Narcissus beheld himself in this foun­tain, SsV.] The fable of Narcissus beautifully represents to usthe condition of a foul converting itself to the phantasy (for thisis the meaning of Narcissus hanging over the limpid theam),and in consequence os this becoming enamoured with a cor­poreal life; or that life which subsists in body, and which is no­thing more than the delusive image of the true man, i. e. of therational and immortal foul. Hence by an immoderate attach­ment to this unsubstantial mockery and gliding semblance of thereal soul, such a one becomes at length wholly changed, as far as is