OCR Output *54 THE DECLINE AND FALL Wise and mo­derate admi­nistration. Educationand virtuoustemper ofAlexander. Journal of hisordinary life. executed on the ready accusation of treason, and the wife of Alexanderdriven with ignominy from the palace, and banished into Africa 6\ Notwithstanding this act of jealous cruelty, as well as someinstances of avarice, with which Mamæa is charged; the ge­neral tenour of her administration was equally for the benefit ofher son and of the empire. With the approbation of the senate,she chose sixteen of the wisest and most virtuous senators, as a per­petual council of state, before whom every public business of mo­ment was debated and determined. The celebrated Ulpian, equallydistinguished by his knowledge ofr and his respect, for, the laws ofRome, was at their head; and the prudent firmness of this aristo-qracy restored order and authority to the government. As soon asthey had purged the city from foreign superstition and luxury, theremains of the capricious tyranny of Elagabalus, they applied them­selves to remove his worthless creatures from every department of pub­lic administration, and to supply their places with men of virtue andability. Learning, and the love of justice, became the only recom­mendations for civil offices. Valour, and the love of discipline, thf>only qualifications for military employments 6S. But the most important care of IVfamsea and her wife counsellors^was to form the character of the young emperor, on whose personalqualities the happiness or misery of the Roman world must ulti­mately depend. The fortunate soil assisted, and even prevented thehand of cultivation. An excellent understanding soon convincedAlexander of the advantages of virtue, the pleasure of knowledge,and the necessity of labour. A natural mildness and moderation oftemper, preserved him from the assaults of pastlon and the allure­ments of vice. His unalterable regard for his mother, and hisesteem for the wife Ulpian, guarded his unexperienced youth fromthe poison of flattery. The simple journal of his ordinary occupations exhibits a pleasingpicture of an accomplished emperor6', and with some allowance • :for