OCR Output SEGORUNUM. 951 SEGUSIO. JEfiODCNTJM (Xeyilowov). Ptolemy (ii. 7. SI) talk Segndunnm the chief town of thelarai [Ruteji!], a Gallic people west of thetow, in the Aquitania of Ptolemy. In somennu of Ptolemy the reading is, Segodunum orWormm. In the Table the name is Segodum,:fh is probably a corrupt form; and it has theirk of a chief town. It was afterwards calledRutrnorum, whence the modem name Rodez, the Areyron, in the department of Areyron. ofirk it is the chief town. [G. I..] SEf.UDLUrjM (Sf-yoiWor), a town of sonth-i (iermany, p: ohably in the country of the Her-mhiri, it, according to some, the modern WOrz-V (Ptol. ii. 11. § 29; iOmp. Wilhelm. Germa-«,p.209.) [L.S.]SEGOTJTIA. 1. A town of the Celtiberi in>;a:iu Tarraconensis, 16 miles from Caesarau-m. (/tm. Ant. pp 437,439.) Most probably iden-u with the .Seguntia of Livy (xxxiv. 19). The<?rr. Rmeda. according to Lapie.!. {liyvrria njpituva. Ptol. ii. 6. § 66), a towna'Kirdnliin HispaniuTarraconensis. [T. H. D.]SEGONTIACI. a people in the S. part of Bri-cu. in Bampthire. (Camden, pp. 84, 146;n A C. r. 81; Orclli, Inter. 2013.) [T. H. R.]sEWXTIUM. a city in the KW. part of Bri-fca Secanda, whence there was a road to Reva. * Inf. p. 482.) It is the modern Caernarvon,lUle river by which is still called Sejont. mien, p. 798.) It is called Segnntio by ther Rav.(v. 31). [T.H.D.]•MORA, in Gallia, appears in the Tablo on aI from Portus Namnetum (jVawej) to Limunum,L»inram (Poitiert). D'Anville supposes that■a b Brtstuire, which is on the road from*a to J'uititn. [G. L.] ttf.WA, in Gallia, is placed by the Antonine.<a a road from Aquae Tarbellicae (Daz) to•i r»'a (Bordeaux). The first station from Aquaektlltae is Mosconnum, or Mostomium, the site ofth a unknown. The next is Segosa, which:*:]if fixes at a place named Etcontte or Es-v. Bat he observes that the distance, 28If. ieagnes, between Aquae and Segosa is less uW distance in the Itin. [G. L.J KOVELLAUNI. [Skqallacni.]IWVIA (ZtyovSia, Ptol. ii. 6. § 56). 1. A1 of the Areraci in Uispania Tarraconensis, onfad from Kmerita to Caeaaraugusta. (/(in. p. 4*5; Plin. iii. 3. a. 4; Flor. iii. 22.) Itexirta under the ancient name. For coins see■ (iluL H. p. 577), Mionnet (i. p. 51, andA i. p. 104X and Sestini (p. 196). A town of Hi-paiiia Baetica, on the river Si-(Hirt. B. A. 57.) In the neighbourhoodrib or the modem Perabad. [T. H. R.]SGI'SIA'NI Ciryoauwui or 2f70uo-ia»'o!), ac peiple. When Cafc-ar (b. c. 58) was leading■t the Helvetii the troops which he had raisedoih Italy, he crossed the Alps and reached theI tl - All .!..- gea. From the territory otn-*-n,eei he CToased the Rhone into the countryin:: "Hi aunt extra Provinciam trans■amn primi.* (B. G. i. 10.) He therefore places1 is the angle between the Rhone and the Savne, • m following: the Helvetii, who had not yet«1 tseSaoW. In another plare(vii.64)hespeaks-e Aedui and Segusiani as bordering on thea*ia, and the Segusiani were dependents of then (vi 75). Strubo (iv. p. 186) places the Segusiani between the Rhodanns and the Rubis(Doubt), on which R'Anville remarks that heought to have placed them between the Rhone andthe Loire. But part of the Segusiani at leastwere west of the Rhone in Caesar's time, as hoplainly tells us, and therefore some of them werebetween the Rhone and the Doubt, though this is avery inaccurate way of fixing their position, for theDoubt ran through the territory of the Sequani.Lugdunum was in the country of the Segusiani.[Li'GDUNi'M.] Pliny gives to the Segusiani thoname of Liberi (iv. 18). In Cicero's oration Pro P. Quintio (c. 25), aGallic people named Sebaguinos, Scbaginnos, withseveral other variations, is mentioned. The reading"Sebnsianos" is a correction of Lambinns. Baiter(Orelli's Cicero, 2nd ed.) has written " Scgusiavos"in this passage of Cicero on his own authority; butthere is no name Segusiavi in Gallia. It is probablethat the true reading is " Segusianos." Ptolemy (ii.8. § 14) names Rodumna (Roanne) and ForumSegusianoruni as the towns of the Segusiani, whichshows that the Segusiani in his time extended tothe Zot're [Rodumna]; and the greater part oftheir territory was probably west of the Rhone andSadne. Mionnet, quoted by Ukert (Gallien, p. 320),has a medal which he supposes to belong to theSegusiani. [G. L.] SKGU'SIO (leyoiaiov: Eth. 2eyov<rtav6s, Se-gusinus : Suta), a city of Gallia Transpadana, situ­ated at the foot of the Cottian Alps, in the valley ofthe Ruria (Dora Riparia), at the distance of 35miles from Augusta Taurinorum (7urtn). It wasthe capital of the Gaulish king or chieftain Cottius,from whom the Alpes Cottiae derived their name,and who became, in the reign of Augustus, a tributaryor dependent ally of the Roman Empire. Hence,when the other Alpine tribes were reduced to sub­jection by Augustus, Cottius retained the govern­ment of his territories, with the title of Praefectus,and was able to transmit them to his son, M. JuliusCottius, upon whom the emperor Claudius even con­ferred tho title of king. It was not till after thedeath of the younger Cottius, in the reign of Nero,that this district was incorporated into the RomanEmpire, and Segusio became a Roman mnnicipaltown. (Strab. iv. pp. 179,204; Plin. iii. 20. s. 24;Amm. Marc. xv. 10.) It was probably from an early period the chieftown in this part of the Alps ami the capital of thesurrounding district. It is situated just at thejunction of the route leading from the Mont Genevredown the valley of the Dora with that which crossesthe Mont Cenit; both these passages were amongthe natural posses of the Alps, and were doubtless inuse from a very early period, though the latter seemsto have been unaccountably neglected by the Romans.The road also that was in most frequent use in thelatter ages of the Republic and the early days of theEmpire to arrive at the pass of the Cottian Alps orMont Genevre, was not that by Segusio up the valleyof the Ruria, but one which ascended the valley ofFenettrellet to Ocelum (Uxetm), and from thencecrossed the Col de Sestrieret to Scingomagus (at ornear Cetanne), at the foot of the actual pass of theGenevre. This was the route taken by Caesar inB. c. 58, and appears to have still been the one moatusual in the days of Strabo (Caes. B. G. i. 10; Strab.iv. p. 179); but at a later period the road by Se­gusio seems to have come into general u>e, and isthat given in the Itineraries, (/tin. ^4nt. pp. 341, 3 p 4