OCR Output CHAP. LII. 527 Fallen kahdi,the twentieth of the Abbassides, and thestate of thirty-ninth of the successors of Mahomet, wasKphsof the last who deserved the title of commander ofA!l).93d. the faithful ;q the last (says Abulfeda) who spoke&c- to the people, or conversed with the learned; thelast who, in the expense of his household, representedthe wealth and magnificence of the ancient caliphs. Afterhim, the lords of the eastern world were reduced to themost abject misery, and exposed to the blows and insultsof a servile condition. The revolt of the provinces cir­cumscribed their dominions within the walls of Bagdad;but that capital still contained an innumerable multitude,vain of their past fortune, discontented with their presentstate, and oppressed by the demands of a treasury, whichhad formly been replenished by the spoil and tribute ofnations. Their idleness was exercised by faction andcontroversy under the mask of piety, the rigid followersof Hanbalr invaded the pleasures of domestic life, burstinto the houses of plebeians and princes, spilled the wine,broke the instruments, beat the musicians, and disho­noured, with infamons suspicions, the associates of everyhandsome youth. In each profession, which allowedroom for two persons, the one was a votary, the other anantagonist, of Ali; and the Abbassides were awakenedby the clamorous grief of the sectaries, who denied theirtitle, and cursed their progenitors. A turbulent peoplecould only be repressed by a military force; but whocould satisfy the avarice, to assert the discipline, of the 1 Hie est ultimas chalifah qui multum atque ssepius pro concione perbrarit. . .Fuit etiam ultimus qui olium cum eruditis et facetis hominibus fallere hilariterqueagere soleret. Ultimus lanJcm chalifarum cui sumptus, stipendia, reditus, ct the­sauri, culinae, oeteraque omnis aulica pompapriorum chalifarurp ad instar compa-rata fuerint , Videbimus enim paullo post quam indignis ct serrilibus ludibriis exa-gitati, quam ad humilem fortunam ultimumque contemptum abjecii fu«rint Li quon­dam potentissimi totius terrarum Orientalium orbis domini. Abulfed. AHUM!.Moslem, p. 261. I have given this passage as the manner and tone of Abulfeda;but the cast of Latin eloquence belongs more proporly to Keiske. The Arabian his­torian (p. 255.257. 261—2ti9. 283, &c.) has supplied me ivith the most interest­ing facts of this parngTa];h. 'Their master, on a similiar occasion, shewed himself of a more indulgent andtolerating spirit. Ahmed Ebu Haubal, the head of one of the four orthodox sects,was born at Bagdad, A.H. 161, and died there A.H. 211. He fought and sufferedin the dispute concerning the creation of the Koran.