OCR Output 378 THE DECLINE AND FAIX CHAP. Patriarchs of Alexandria and Constantinople.—St. Cyril andXXXIX. Nestorius.—Third General Council of Ephesus.—Heresy~ ""of Eutyches.—Fourth General Council of Chalcedon.—Civil and Ecclesiastical Discord.—Intolerance of Justinian.—The Three Chapters.—The Monothelite Controversy.—State of the Oriental Sects.—First, The Nestorians.—Second,The Jacobites.—Third, The Maronites.—Fourth, The Ar­menians.—Fifth, The Copts.—Sixth, The Abyssinians.—Mission, and final Expulsion of the Jesuits from that Coun­try, A. D. 3632. I believe that very few persons, who peruse the foregoingTable, will feel any regret at the omission of the Chapter, inwhich these contents are detailed; and I think I may safelyaffirm, that none of my readers will be of opinion that theexpulsion of the Jesuits from Abyssinia, which happenedin the year 1632, can possibly be considered as a part ofthe History of the Decline and Fall of tbe Roman Empire.This chapter is indeed a perfect illustration of the truth ofthe observation of Sir David Dalrymple, which was noticedin the life of Mr. Gibbon; I mean, that those parts of hiswork which contain the most violent attacks on the Chris­tian religion, are so far from forming a part of the History,that they are in fact very inconvenient interruptions of thenarrative. As a proof of the truth of the foregoing assertion, I shallobserve, that, in the preceding chapter, Heraclius appears asone of the most interesting characters in the History. Hisexpedition against Persia is by far the most brilliant thatwas achieved by the Romans against that country, from thedefeat and death of Crassus, to the time of Heraclius. Everyperson must, of course, be desirous of being acquainted withthe remaining circumstances of the reign of this emperor.True it is, that the close of it was as calamitous, as the pre­ceding part had been glorious. But still it must be the wish ofevery reader to be acquainted with it; and it will not be with­out some trouble that he can obtain the necessary informationfrom Mr. Gibbon. A few words are indeed said in the be­ginning of the next volume respecting the second marriageand death of Heraclius; but the important events whichtook place in Syria and Egypt during the later part of hisreign must be sought for at the end of the ninth volume. Thereader, in the mean time, must have perused a sketch of a