OCR Output in THE DECLINE AND FALL Csesarea(l) records the epistle,(2) but he most strangely forgets the picture ofChrist;(3) the perfect impression of his face on a linen, with which he gratified thefaith of the- royal stranger, who had invoked his healing power, and offered thestrong city of Edessa to protect him against the malice of the Jews. The ignoranceof the primitive church is explained by the long imprisonment of the image in aniche of the wall, from whence, after an oblivion of five hundred years, it was re­leased by some prudent bishop, and seasonably presented to the devotion of thetimes. Its first and most glorious exploit was the deliverance of the city from thearms of Chosroes Nushirvan; and it was soon revered as a pledge of the divinepromise, that Edessa should never be taken by a foreign enemy. It is true, in­deed, that the text of Procopius ascribes the double deliverance of Edessa to thewealth and valour of her citizens, who purchased the absence, and repelled theassaults of the Persian monarch. He was ignorant, the profane historian, of thetestimony which he is compelled to deliver in the ecclesiastical page of Evagrius,that the Palladium was exposed on the rampart; and that the water, which hadbeen sprinkled on the holy face, instead of quenching, added new fuel to the flamesof the besieged. After this important service, the image of Edessa was preservedwith respect and gratitude; and if the Armenians rejected the legend, the morecredulous Greeks adored the similitude, which was not the work of any mortalpencil, but the immediate creation of the divine original. Thestyle and sentimentsof a Byzantine hymn will declare how far their worship was removed from thegrossest idolatry. " How can we with mortal eyes contemplate this image, whosecelestial splendour the host of heaven presumes not to behold? He who dwells inheaven condescends this day to visit us by his venerable image; He who is seatedon the cherubim, visits us this day by a picture, which the Father has delineatedwith his immaculate hand, which he has formed in an ineffable manner, and whichwe sanctify by adoring it with fear and love." Before the end of the sixth century,these images, made without hands, (in Greek it is a single word,) (4) were propa­gated in the camps and cities of the eastern empire;(5) they were the objects ofworship, and the instruments of miracles; and in the hour of danger or tumult,their venerable presence could revive the hope, rekindle the courage, or repressthe fury of the Roman legions. Of these pictures, the far greater part, the tran­scripts of a human pencil, could only pretend to a secondary likeness and impropertitle: but there were some of higher descent, who derived their resemblance froman immediate contact with the original, endowed, for that purpose, with a mira­culous and prolific virtue. The most ambitious aspired from a filial to a fraternalrelation with the image of Edessa; and such is the -veronica of Rome, or Spain, orJerusalem, which Christ in his agony and bloody sweat applied to his face, anddelivered to a holy matron. The fruitful precedent was speedily transferred tothe Virgin Mary, and the saints and martyrs. In the church of Diospolis, in Pa­lestine, the features of the mother of God(6) were deeply inscribed on a marblecolumn: the east and west have been decorated by the pencil of St. Luke; and the,evangelist, who was perhaps a physician, has been forced to exercise the occupa- (1) Euseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. i. c. 13. The learned Assemannus has brought up the collateral aid of the threeSyrians, St. Ephrem, Josua Stylites, and James, bishop of Santa;; but I do not find any notice of the Syriaooriginal, or-the archives of Edessa (Bibliot. Orient, torn. i. p. 318. 420.554.0 their vague belief is probably de­rived from the Greeks. (2) The evidences for these epistles is stated and rejected by the candid Lardner. (Heathen Testimonies, vol.i.p.279—309.) Vlmongtbe herd of bigots who are forcibly driven from this convenient but untenable post, Iam ashamed, with the Grabes, Caves, Tillemonts, &e. to discover Mr. Addison, an English gentleman; (hisWorks, vol. i. p. 528, Baskerville's edition:) but his superficial tract on the Christian religion owes its credit tobis name, its style, and the interested applause of our clergy. (3) From the silence of James of Sarug, (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, p. 289. 3is.) and the testimony of Eva­grius, (Hist. Eccles. lib. iv. c. 27.) I conclude that this fable was invented between the years 521 and 594, mostprobably after the siege of Edessa in 540. (Asseman. torn. i. p. 416. Procopius de Bell. P. '-sic. lib. ii.) It isthe sword and buckler of Gregory II. (in Epist. i. and Leon. Isaur. Coneil. torn. viii. p. fiftri, 657.) of John Da­mascene, (Opera, torn. i. p. 281, edit. Lequien) and of the second Nicene council. (Actin, v. p. 1030.) Themost perfect edition may be found in Cedrentis (Compend. p. 175—178.) .(4) A?5£»p<wo<ito;. See Ducange,in Glos. Grree. et Lat. The subject is treated with equal learning andbigotry by the Jesuit Gretser. (Syntagma de Imaginibus non Manu factis, ad calcem Codini de Officiis, p. 289—330.) the ass, or rather the fox, of Ingoldstadt (see the Scaligerana-.) with equal reason and wit by the Protes­tant Beausobrc, in the ironical controversy which he has spread through many volumes of the BibliotbequeGermanique (torn. 1. p. 18—50. 20. p. 27—68. 25. p. 1—46. 27. p. 85.—112.28. p. 1—33. 31. p. 111—148. 32. p.75-107.34. p. 67-96.) re r (J) Theophylact. Simocatta (lib. ii. c. 3. p. 34, lib. iii. c. i. p. 63.) celebrates the tsnfyun which he styles (ra^ipowflijjTow ; yet it was no more than a copy, since he adds aexeiwov to sxstvov oi Fwjumioi (of Edessa)ecnrasirevs-i ti nfsnTov. See Pagi, torn. ii. A. D. 586. No. II. (6) See in the genuine or supposed works of John Damascenus, two passages on the Virgin and St. Luke,winch have not Tieen npticed by Grets,cr, nor consequently by Beausobre. (Opera, Job. Damascen. torn, i.p,file. 631.)