OCR Output 296 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. Pontic in­vasion ofEurope. 92. 90. 89.Predatoryinroads ofthe Thra- Thrace andMacedoniaoccupied bythe Ponticarmies-. Pontic fleetin the/Egean. of arraa; but Magnesia on the Meander successfully with­stood a severe siege, in which Mithradates' ablest officerArchelaus was defeated and wounded. Rhodes, the asylumof the Romans who had escaped from Asia with the go­vernor Lucius Cassius among them, was assailed on thepart of Mithradates by sea and land with immense superi­ority of force. But his sailors, courageously as they didtheir duty under the eyes of the king, were awkward no­vices, and so Ehodian squadrons vanquished those of Pontusfour times as strong and returned home with capturedvessels. By land also the siege made no progress: after apart of the works had been destroyed, Mithradates aban­doned the enterprise, arid the important island as well as themainland opposite remained in the hands of the Romans. But not only was the Asiatic province occupied by Mith­radates almost without defending itself, chiefly through theSulpician revolution breaking out at a most unfavourabletime; Mithradates even directed an attack against Europe.Already since 662 the neighbours of Macedonia on hernorthern and eastern frontier had been repeating theirincursions with remarkable ardour and perseverance; in theyears 664, 665 the Thracians overran Macedonia and allEpirus and plundered the temple of Dodoua. Still moresingular was the circumstance, that with these movementswas combined a renewed attempt to place a pretender onthe Macedonian throne in the person of one Euphenes.Mithradates, who by way of the Crimea maintained connec­tions with the Thracians, was hardly a stranger to all theseevents. The praetor Gaius Sentius defended himself, it istrue, against these intruders with the aid of the ThracianDentheletae; but it was not long before mightier opponentscame against him. Mithradates, carried away by his suc­cesses, had formed the bold resolution that he would, likeAntiochus, bring the war for the sovereignty of Asia to adecision in Greece, and had by land and sea directedthither the flower of his troops. His son Ariarathespenetrated from Thrace into the weakly-defended Mace­donia, subduing the country as he advanced and parcellingit into Pontic satrapies. Abdera and Philippi became theprincipal bases for the operations of the Pontic arms inEurope. The Pontic fleet, commanded by Mithradates'best general Archelaus, appeared in the jEgean sea, wherescarce a Roman sail was to be found. Delos, the emporium