OCR Output H2 THE DECLINE AND FALL character, the manners and religion of the Hindoos, are completely obliterated}.-and the intrinsic merit of the fables of Pilpay is far inferior to the concise eleganceof Phiedrus, and the native graces of La Fontaine. Fifteen moral and politicalsentences are illustrated in a series of apologues: but the composition is intricate,the narrative prolix, and the precept obvious and barren. Yet the Brachman mayassume the merit of inventing a pleasing fiction, which adorns the nakedness oftruth, and alleviates, perhaps, to a royal ear, the harshness of instruction. Witha similar design, to admonish kings that they are strong only in the strength oftheir subjects, the same Indians invented the game of chess, which was likewiseintroduced into Persia under the reign of Nushirvan.fi) The son of Kobad found his kingdom involved in a war with the successor ofConstantine; and the anxiety of his domestic situation inclined him to grant thesuspension of arms, which Justinian was impatient to purchase. Chosroes saw theRoman ambassadors at his feet. He accepted eleven thousand pounds of gold, asthe price of an endless or indefinite peace;(2) some mutual exchanges were regu­lated; the Persian assumed the guard of the gates of Caucasus, and the demolitionof Dara was suspended, on condition that it should never be made the residence ofthe general of the east. This interval of repose had been solicited, and was dili­gently improved, by the ambition of the emperor: his African conquests were thefirst-fruits of the Persian treaty; and the avarice of Chosroes was soothed by a largeportion of the spoils of Carthage, which his ambassadors required in a tone of plea­santry, and under the colour of friendship. (3). But the trophies of Belisarius dis­turbed the slumbers of the great king; and he heard with astonishment, envy, andfear, that Sicily, Italy and Rome itself, had been reduced, in three rapid campaigns,to the obedience of Justinian. Unpractised in the art of violating treaties, he se­cretly excited his bold and subtle vassal Almondar. That prince of the Saracens,who resided atHira,(4)hadnot been included in the general peace, and still wagedan obscure war against his rival Arethas, the chief of the tribe of Gassan, and con­federate of the empire. The subject of their dispute was an extensive sheep-walkin the desert to the south of Palmyra. An immemorial tribute for the license ofpasture, appeared to attest the rights of Almondar, while the Gassanite appealedto the Latin name of strata, a paved road, as an unquestionable evidence of the so­vereignty and labours of the Romans. (5) The two monarchs supported the causeof their respective vassals; and the Persian Arab, without expecting the event ofa slow and doubtful arbitration, enriched his flying camp with the spoil and cap­tives of Syria. Instead of repelling the arms, Justinian attempted to seduce thefidelity of Almondar, while he called from the extremities of the earth, the nationsof Ethiopia and Scythia to invade the dominions of his rival. But the aid of suchallies was distant and precarious, and the discovery of this hostile correspondencejustified the complaints of the Goths and Armenians, who implored, almost at thesame time, the protection of Chosroes. The descendants of Arsaces, who werestill numerous in Armenia, had been provoked to assert the last relics of nationalfreedom and hereditary rank; and the ambassadors of Vitiges had secretly tra­versed the empire to expose the instant, and almost inevitable, danger of the "king­dom of Italy. Their representations were uniform, weighty, and effectual. " Westand before your throne, the advocates of your interest, as well as of our own.The ambitious and faithless Justinian aspires to be the sole master of the world.Since the endless peace which betrayed the common freedom of mankind, thatprince, your ally in words, your enemy in actions, has alike insulted his friends andfoes, and has filled the earth with blood and confusion. Has he not violated theprivileges of Armenia, the independence of Colchos, and the wild liberty of theTzanian mountains? Has he not usurped, with equal avidity, the city of Bospho-rus on the frozen Maeotis, and the vale of palm-trees, on the shores of the Red sea?The Moors, the Vandals, the Goths, have been successively oppressed, and eachnation has calmly remained the spectator of their neighbour's ruin. Embrace, O (I) See the Historia Shahiludi of Dr. Hyde (Syntngm. Mssertat. torn. ii. p. 61—69.) (!) The endless peace(Procopins, Persic, lib. i. c. 21.) wat concluded or ratified in the sixth year, and thirdconsulship of Justinian (A. D. 533, between January 1, and April 1, Pagi, torn. ii. p. 550.) Marcellinus, in hisChronicle, uses the style of the Medes and Persians. (3) Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 26. (4) Almondar, kins; of Hira, was deposed by Kobad, and restored by Nushirran. His mother, from her beau­ty, was sumamed Celestial Water* an appellation which became hereditary, and was extended for a more noblecause (liberality in famine) to the Arab princes of Syria (Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 69,70.) (J) Procopius, Persic, lib. ii. c. 1. We are ignorant of the origin and object of this ttrata, a pared road-often days' Journey from Auranitis to Babylonia (see a Latin note in Delisle's Map, Imp. Orient.) Wesselingand D'AhvilIe are silent.