OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 367 but by rational methods aimed to mitigate things, as not wil­ling to give any handle for tumults. 3. Now when Herod had already reigned seventeen years, Cae­sar came into Syria; at which time the greatest part of the in­habitants of Gadara clamoured against Herod, as one that washeavy in his injunctions, and tyrannical. These reproachesthey mainly ventured upon by the encouragement of Zenodorus,who took his oath that he would never leave Herod till he hadprocured that they should be severed from Herod's kingdom, andjoined to Caesar's province. The Gadarens were induced hereby,and made no small cry against him, and that the more boldly,because those that had been delivered up by Agrippa were notpunished by Herod, who let them go, and did them no harm, forindeed he was the principal man in the world who appeared al­most inexorable in punishing crimes in his own family, but verygenerous in remitting the offences that were committed else­where. And while they accused Herod of injuries, and plun-derings, and subversions of temples, he stood unconcerned, andwas ready to make his defence. However, Caesar gave him hisright-hand, and remitted nothing of his kindness to him, uponthis disturbance by the multitude; and indeed these things werealleged the first day, but the hearing proceeded no farther; foras the Gadarens saw the inclination of Caesar and of his asses­sors, and expected, as they had reason to do, that they should bedelivered up to the king, some of them, out of a dread of thetorments they might undergo, cut their own throats in the nighttime, and some of them threw themselves down precipices, andothers of them cast themselves into the river, and destroyedthemselves of their own accord; which accidents seemed a suffi­cient condemnation of the rashness and crimes they had beenguilty of: whereupon Caesar made no longer delay, but cleared He­rod from the crimes he was accused of. Another happy accidentthere was, which was a farther great advantage to Herod at thistime; for Zenodorus' belly burst, and a great quantity of bloodissued from him in his sickness, and he thereby departed this lifeat Antioch in Syria; so Caesar bestowed his country, which wasno small one, upon Herod; it lay between Trachon and Galilee,and contained Ulatha, and Paneas, and the country round about.He also made him one of the procurators of Syria, and com­manded that they should do every thing with his approbation:and, in short, he arrived at that pitch of felicity, that whereasthere were but two men that governed the vast Roman empire,first Caesar, and then Agrippa, who was his principal favourite;Caesar preferred no one to Herod besides Agrippa, and Agrippamade no one his greater friend than Herod besides Caesar. Andwhen he had acquired such freedom, he begged of Caesar a te-