OCR Output THE HISTORY BOOK Quintus Servilius were appointed to the confulfhip\. _ 1 . Thefe experienced a year fimilar to the preceding;Y.R. *ss. the beginning of it, filled with civil broils, whichB.C.466. were afterwards repretfed by tKe breaking out offoreign wars. The Sabines, marching acrofs theplains of Cruftuminum, with great rapidity, carriedfire and fword through all the country on the banksof the Anio; and though afterwards, when they hadadvanced almoft to the Colline gate, and the wallsof the city, they met with a repulfe, yet they car­ried off a vaft booty both of men and cattle. Theconful Servilius marched in purfuit of them, withdefign to bring them to an engagement: but, notbeing able to overtake their main body, in thechampaign country, he fprcad devaluation to fuchan extent, as to leave nothing unmolefted any where,and returned with a quantity of fpoil, exceeding, bymany degrees, what the enemy had carried off. Inthe campaign againft the Volfcians alfo, the arms ofthe ftate were remarkably fuccefsful, through thecondudt, both of the general and of the foldiers:firft, they fought a pitched battle, on equal ground,with great lofs of blood on both fides; and the Ro­mans, whofe fmall number made them feel the lofsmore fenfibly, would have quitted the field, had notthe conful, by a happy feint, re-animated the troops,calling out, that the enemy were flying on the otherwing: they then returned to the charge, and theopinion that victory was on their fide, was the meansof their obtaining it in reality. The conful fearing,left if he preffed the enemy too far, he might havethe battle to fight over again, gave the fignal forretreat. After this, an interval of fome few dayspalTed, during which both parties repofed, as if theyhad tacitly agreed to a fufpenfion of arms; and, inthe mean time, vaft multitudes from every ftate ofthe Volfcians and ./Equans flocked into their camp,not doubting but that the Romans, when informedof their numbers, would make their retreat by nighr. About