OCR Output CHAP, XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343 of Papinian and Ulpian. The science of the laws is thesloW growth of time and experience, and the advantageboth of method and materials is naturally assumed bythe most recent authors. The civilians of the reign ofthe Antonines had studied the works of their predeees*sors: their philosophic spirit had mitigated the rigour ofantiquity, simplified the forms of proceeding, and emerg­ed from the jealousy and prejudice of the rival sects. Thechoice of the authorities that compose the Pandects, de-*pended on the judgment of Tribonian: but the powerof his sovereign could not absolve him from the sacredobligations of truth and fidelity. As the legislator ofthe empire, Justinian might repeal the acts of the An­tonines, or condemn, as seditious, the free principles^which were maintained by the last of the Roman law­yers.1 But the existence of past facts is placed beyondthe reach of despotism; and the emperor was guilty offraud and forgery, when he corrupted the integrity oftheir text, inscribed with their venerable names thewords and ideas of his servile reign,1" and suppressed, bythe hand of power, the pure and authentic copies oftheir sentiments. The changes and interpolations ofTribonian and his colleagues are excused by the pretenceof uniformity: but their cares have been insufficient;and the antinomies, or contradictions of the Code andPandects, still exercise the Patience and subtlety of mo­dern civilians." A rumour devoid of evidence has been propagated by Lossoflne r ° J ancient ju- 1 risprudence collected by Duker. (Opuscnla de Lalinitale velerum Jurisconsultorura, Lugd. Bat.1721. !n 12ni<>.) 1 Nomina quidem vcteribus servavimus, legum antem veritatem nostram fecimns.Itaque siquid erat in illis seditiosum, inulta autem talia erant ibi reposita, hoc deci-lom est ot definitmn, et in perspicaum finem dedacla est quxque lex. (Cod. Justi­nian, lib. 1. tit. 17. leg. 3. no. 10.) A frank confession! nl The number of these emblemata (a polite name for forgeries) is much reduced byByukershoek (in the four last books of his observations), who poorly maintains theright of Justinian and the duty of Tribonian. 3"The antinomies, or opposite laws of the Code and Pandects, are sometimesthe cauae, and often the excuse, of the glorious uncertainty Of the civil law]which ao often affords what Montague calls "Questions ponr l'Ami." See afine passage of Franciscus Balduiuus in Justinian, (lib. 2. p. 259, &c. apnd Lindenwig, f> 305, 306.)