OCR Output 498 ROMAN EMPIRE. manners of their countrymen; with general and partialhistories, which each revolving generation supplied witha new harvest of persons and events; with the codes andcommentaries of jurisprudence, which derived their au­thority from the law of the prophet; with the interpre­ters of the Koran, and orthodox tradition; and with thewhole theological tribe, polemics, mystics, scholastics,and moralists, the first or the last of writers, accordingto the different estimate of sceptics or believers. Theworks of speculation or science may be reduced to thefour classes of philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, andphysic. The sages of Greece were translated and illus­trated in the Arabic language, and some treatises, nowlost in the original, have been recovered in the versionsof the east,k which possessed and studied the writings ofAristotle and Plato, of Euclid and Apollonius, of Ptolemy,Hippocrates, and Galen.1 Among the ideal systems,which have varied with the fashion of the times, theArabians adopted the philosophy of the Stagirite, alikeintelligible or alike obscure for the readers of every age.Plato wrote for the Athenians, and his allegorical geniusis too closely blended with the language and religion ofGreece. After the fall of that religion, the Peripateticsemerging from their obscurity, prevailed in the contro­versies of the oriental sects, and their founder was longafterward restored by the Mahometans of Spain to the k As for instance, the fifth, sixth, and seventh books (the eighth is still van ting)of the Conic Sections of Apollonius PergscuS, tvhich *ete printed from the Flo­rence MSS. 1661. (Fabric. Bibliot , Grac. torn. t.f. 558.) Yet the fifth bookhad been previously restored by the mathematical divination of Vivian!. See biseloge in Fontenelle, torn. 5. p. 59, &o-) 1 The merit of these Arabic versions is freely discussed by Renaudot, (Fabric.Bibliot. Gra-c. torn. 1. p. 812—816.) and piously defended by Gasira. (Bibliot.Arab. Hispana, torn. 1. p. 3S6—440.) Most of the versions of Plato, Aristotle,Hippocrates, Galen, &c. are ascribed to Honain, a physician of the Nestoriansect, Vho flourished at Bagdad in the court of the caliphs, and died A. D. 876.He was at the head of a school or manufactory of translations, and the works ofhis sons and disciples were published under his name. See Abulpharagios,(Dynast, p. 88. 115. 171—174. and Apud Asseman, Bibliot. Orient, torn. ?.p. 438.} d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orientale, p. 456. Asseman, (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 3.p. 164.) and Casiri. (Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. 1. p. 238, &c. 251. 386—990.303. 304, &c.)