OCR Output liOMA. 843 HOMA. v riraVns of the Domitian family arc frequently■tueed in inscriptions; and those who are curiouserring tbfir history will find a long account ofr. is I'rrller's Reniosxn (p. 207, seq.). Theymi to hare existed under the same name in the'of AnreUan. (Vopisc. Aurel. 49.) In ther liatrirt were also the Horti Aorippinae. came into the possession of her son, Ca-.1. who built a circus in them, afterwards-.' the Circus Xeronis. It will be treated of inher action; and we shall only mention here tin was the place in which the Christians,sc previously been wrapped in the tunica*ta or picata, were burnt, to serve as torchesti? midnight games. (Tac. Ann. xv. 44.) the gardens mentioned came into the possessioncrj. aiid may therefore hare also been calledin Xerosis. (Tac. lb. and c. 39.)be aeirbbnurhood seems to have been a chosenfst the sepulchres of the great. One of them,maid larger than the still existing monument«:.na, existed till the end of the 15th century,«*, absurdly regarded sometimes as the »e-RjmuJt, sometimes as the sepulcrwn Sci-ir A/ricomi. It appears from notices belonging» cuddle ages that on or near the spot whereiter's now stands, there was anciently a Tkm-I AroLUSIB, or more probably of Sol. (Anas-l, fit SUoestri, p. 42; Montf. Diar. L p. ir-j;; thai gone over the various districts ofay, and noted the principal objects of interest: tfcey contained, wc shall now proceed to giveroast of certain objects which, from tlieirusee, their general similarity, and the small-of their number, may be most convenientlys together and treated of in distinct sections,are, —(1) the structures destined for publici and spectacles, as the Circi, Theatres, and: iealres; (2) the Thermae or Baths; (3) the■; sad, (4) the Aqueducts.( rroeral characteristics of these objects havem rally described in the Dictionary of A ri­ms that it will be unnecessary to repeat thebum here, and we shall therefore confineto what may be called their topographicaly. that is, an account of their origin and■a, their situation, size, and other similartan. '. Tax Cirxt, Tnr.ATR.Es, A.-»n A.Mrin- THBATRES. and charuit races were the earliest kind of>-w known at IConie. The principal circus in theaa sport* were exhibited, and which by'Cfr-emtnence over the others caine ultimatelyiv.mzuitheai by tiie title of Cmcrs Maxi-ras fVwmifd, ms we have already related, byIrr Tanraia, in the valley between the I'alatinettat That king, however, probably did littleam keel sod mark out the ground; for certain irnatl il were assigned to the patricians andB, aaal to the 34> curiae, on which, at tho time ruas. tLey erected their own seats or scaf-caliol tptetaetUn ami fori. (Liv. L 35 : cf.k ui. 68.) According to Livy, the samei rsatisned to prevail under 1'arquinina Su-(A c 5*); though Dionysius representsxnuch as surrounding the circus with por­ ticoes (iv. 44). It was not till the year B. c. 228that carceres for the chariots were built. (Liv.viii. 20.) We cannot tell what the original numberof carceres may have been, but it was probablyadapted to that of the chariots which started in therace. According to Tertullian (dc Spect 9) therewere originally only two Circensian factions, orcolours, the albata and russata—that is, winterand summer; but these distinctions of colours andfactions do not seem to have been known till thetime of the Kinpire. Joannes Lydus (de Mens.ir. 25, Beck.) states the original number of thofactions to have been three, the russata, albata andprasina; and this seems to agree with the followingpassage in Cicero—if, indeed, it is to be interpretedstrictly, and is anything more than a fortuitouscoincidence: "Neque enim in qnadrigis eum se­cundum numeraverim, aut tertium, qui vix e car-ceribus exierit, cum palmam jam primus acceperit."{Brut. 47.) However this may be, we know thatin the early part of the Empire there were fourcolours, though by whom the fourth, or peneta, wasadded, cannot be said. Domitian added two morethe aurora and purpurata (Suct./)om. 7), but thesedo not seem to have come into customary use. Theusual mums, or start, consisted of four chariots, aswe leant from Virgil with the note of Servius : — "Centum quadrijugos agitabo ad flumina currus"(fieorg. iii. 18); where the commentator remarks from Varro:—" Mest, unius diei exhibebo circenses ludos, quia, utVarro dicit in libris de gente pipuli Romani, olimxxv. missus fieljant." It appears probable thatthe carceres were twice the number of the chariotswhich started, in order to afford egress to thosewhich had fini.-.hed the course, whilst fresh cha­rioteers were waiting in those which were closed tobegin a new course (v. Becker, de Muris, p. 87).Thus in the Lyons mosaic eight carceres are repre­sented; but in the Circus Muximus, after the in­crease of the factions to six, there were probablytwelve carceres; and such also appears to havebeen the number in the circus on the Via Appifl.(Cf. Cassiod. Far. iii. 51.) Tho Circns Maximusseems to have remained in a very rude and im­perfect state till the time of Julius Caesar. Heincreased it by adding to both its extremities;and its site when thus enlarged appears to havebeen 3 stadia in length and 1 in breadth. Caesaralso surrounded it with a canal, called Knurrs, inorder to protect the spectators from the fury of theelephants; but this was filled up by Nero and con­verted into seats for the equites, whose increasednumbers probably required more accommtxlation.(Suet. Cats. 39; Plin. viii. 7, xxxvi. 24. a. 1.)The description of the circus by Dionysius (iii. 68)is the clearest and longest we possess, but themeasurements which he gives differ from thoseof Pliny, as he makes it 3} stadia long and 4plethra. or jjds of a stade, broad. But perhaps theseauthorities may be reconciled by assuming that onetook the inner and the other the outer circumference.The reader will find a lengthened examination ofthese different measures in Canina's IrulicazioneTopogrujica. p. 491, seq. In Caesar's circus itwas only the lower rows of seats that were built ofstone; the upfier rows were of wood, which accountsfor the repeated fires that happened there. Thefirst of these occurred in B.C. 31, a little beforethe battle of Actium, and destroyed a considerable