OCR Output AiV. 233 1083.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS and so they brought the ark to Jerusalem.But as they came to the threshing floor of*Chidon, a place so called, Uzzahf wasslain by the anger of God. For as the oxenshook the ark, he stretched out his hand andwould needs take hold of it. Now becausehe was not a priest, and yet touched the ark,God struck him dead. Hereupon both theking and the people were displeased at thedeath of Uzzah; and the place where he diedis called the Breach of UzzahJ unto this day.So David was afraid, and supposing that ifhe received the ark to himself into the city,he might suffer in the like manner as Uzzahhad suffered, who, upon his barely puttingout his hand to the ark, died in the manneralready mentioned: he did not receive it tohimself into the city; but he took it asideunto a certain place belonging to a righteousman, whose name was Obededom, who was,by his family, a Levite, and deposited the arkwith him. And it remained there three entiremonths. This augmented the house of Obed­edom, and conferred many blessings upon it:and when the king heard what had befallenObededom; how he was become of a poorman, in a low estate, exceeding happy, andthe object of envy to all those that saw or in- quired after his houseThe took courage; and,hoping that he should meet with no misfortunethereby, he transferred the ark to his ownhouse;|j the priests carrying it, while sevencompanies of singers, who were set in thatorder by the king, went before it; and whilehe himself played upon the harp, and joinedin the music;§ insomuch, that when his wifeMichal, the daughter of Saul, saw him so do­ing, she laughed at him. But when they hadbrought in the ark, they placed it under thetabernacle which David had pitched for it;and he offered costly sacrifices, and peace-offerings; and treated the whole multitude,and dealt both to the women, and the men,and the infants, a loaf of bread and a cake,and another cake baked in a pan, with a por­tion of the sacrifice. So when he had thusfeasted the people, he sent them away, andreturned to his own house. But when Michal his wife, the daughter ofSaul, came and stood by him, she wished himall other happiness; and intreated, that what­ever he should farther desire, to the utmostpossibility, might be given by God, and thathe might be favourable to him. Yet did sheblame him,** that so great a king as he wasshould dance after an unseemly manner; and, * 1 Chron. xiii. 9. t Josephus seems to be partly in the right, when heobserves here, that Uzzah was no priest, (though perhapshe might be a Levite,) and was therefore struck dead fortouching the ark, contrary to the law; and for which pro­fane rashness death was the penalty by that law, Numb.iv. 15, 20. See the like before, VI. 1. It is not impro­bable that the putting this ark in a cart, when it ought tohave been carried by the priests or Levites, as it waspresently here in Josephus so carried from Obededom'shouse to David's, might be also an occasion of the angerof God on that breach of the law. See Numb. iv. 15.1 Chron. xv. 13. t 2 Sam. vi. 8. 1 Chron. xv. 13. ft It is supposed by some, that this bringing back of theark was appointed to be one of the great festivals; andthe reason why David might summon so many of hisprincipal ministers and officers to accompany him in theexpedition might be, to possess the young people,who perhaps had heard little or nothing of the ark, byreason of its having been absent so long, with a mightyveneration for it when they saw the king, and so many ofthe chief nobility waiting on it, with such a variety ofmusic, and such public declarations of joy. Miller's His­tory of the Church. § Strabo teHs us, that it was customary among theGreeks, as well as other nations, to use music and dancingin the processions before their gods, lib. 10. Callima-chus mentions the chori, and dancings of the youth at thealtar of Apollo; Plato observes that among the Egyptians, all kinds of music, songs, and dances, were consecrated totheir gods. De Legibus, 1. 3. And even Lucian (DeSaltatione) expressly says, that among the ancients, noceremonial of religion, no expiation, no atonement, wasaccounted rightly accomplished without dancing. So thatDavid was far from being singular in his behaviour uponthis occasion; nor was his behaviour, in this particular,any disparagement to his regal dignity. His dancing, i. e.his moving in certain serious and solemn measures, suitedto music of the same character and tendency, was an ex­ercise highly conducive to the purposes of piety, and hismixing with the public festivities of his people was a con­descension, (as Tacitus relates of Augustus the Romanemperor,) not unbecoming the greatest monarch. Policytaught Augustus to put himself upon a level with his sub­jects in the public rejoicings; piety taught David, that allmen are upon a- level in the solemnities of religion. Sothat David was not singular in his behaviour upon thisoccasion* Patrick's Commentary, and The History of theLife of King David, vol. 2. B. **" The words of Michal, wherein she upbraids David.are these :—How glorious was the king of Israel to-day.who uncovered himself to-day, in-the eyes of the hand­maids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shame­lessly uncovereth himself! 2 Sam. vi. 20. At first read­ing, they seem to intimate, that David, in his dancing,had exposed his naked body, and acted some way or otheiimmodestly. But these words, we are to consider, werespoken in a fit of passion, and when Michal was mindedto aggravate matters; for it is not to be doubted, but that