OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. appellation of heretics has always been applied to the less numerousparty. To these domestic testimonies we may add the confession,the complaints, and the apprehensions of the Gentiles themselves.From a philosophic writer who had studied mankind, and who de­scribes their manners in the most lively colours, we may learn, thatunder the reign of Commodus, his native country of Pontus wasfilled with Epicureans and Christians ''*. Within fourscore yearsafter the death of Christ the humane Pliny laments the mag­nitude of the evil which he vainly attempted to eradicate. In hisvery curious epistle to the emperor Trajan, he affirms, that the tem­ples were almost deserted, that the sacred victims scarcely found anypurchasers, and that the superstition had not only infected the cities,'but had even spread itself into the villages and the open country ofPontus and Bithynia's6. .- . Without descending into a minute scrutiny of the expressions, or The churchof the motives of those writers who either celebrate or lament theprogress of Christianity in the East, it may in general be observed,that none of them have left us any grounds from whence a justestimate might be formed of the real numbers of the faithful inthose provinces. One circumstance, however, has been fortunatelypreserved, which seems to cast a more distinct light on this obscurebut interesting subject. Under the reign of Theodosius, after Chri-,stianity had enjoyed, during more than sixty years, the sunshine ofimperial favour, the ancient and illustrious church of Antioch con­sisted of one hundred thousand persons, three thousand of whom,were supported out of the public oblations ,S7. The splendor anddignity of the queen of the East, the acknowledged populousnessof Cæsarea, Seleucia, and Alexandria, and the destruction of twohundred and fifty thousand souls in the. earthquake which afflicted^Antioch under the elder Justin M% are . so many convincing proofsthat the whole number of its inhabitants was not less than half amillion, and that the Christians, however multiplied bj zeal and,'. i T11 2 ,v power,