OCR Output 80 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. taries alone, who became the victims of his orthodoxavarice/ The minis- Dishonour might be ultimately reflected on the cha- ters of ° J Justinian, racter of Justinian; but much of the guilt, and stillmore of the profit, was intercepted by the ministers, whowere seldom promoted for their virtues, and not alwaysselected for their talents/ The merits of Tribonian thequaestor will hereafter be weighed in the reformation ofthe Roman law; but the economy of the east was sub­ordinate to the prastorian prefect, and Procopius hasjustified his anecdotes by the portrait which he exposesin his public history, of the notorious vices of John ofJohn of Cappadocia.2 His knowledge was not borrowed fromCjppadocia. ^ schools/ and his style was scarcely legible; but heexcelled in the powers of native genius, to suggest thewisest counsels, and to find expedients in the most des­perate situations. The corruption of his heart was equalto the vigour of his understanding. Although he wassuspected of magic and Pagan superstition, he appearedinsensible to the fear of God or the reproaches of man;and his aspiring fortune was raised on the death ofthousands, the poverty of millions, the ruin of cities,and the desolation of provinces. From the dawn oflight to the moment of dinner, he assiduously labouredto enrich his master and himself at the expense of theRoman world; the remainder of the day was spent insensual and obscene pleasures, and the silent hours ofthe night were interrupted by the perpetual dread of thejustice of an assassin. His abilities, perhaps his vices,recommended him to the lasting friendship of Justinian:the emperor yielded with reluctance to the fury of the * John Malala, torn. 2. p. 101—103. y One of these, Anatolins, perished in an earthquake—doubtless a judgment! Thecomplaints and olamours of the people in Agathias (lib. 5. p. 146, 147.) are almostan echo of the anecdote. The aliena pecunia reddenda of Corippus (lib. 2. 381. &c.)is not very honourable to Justinian's memory. z See the history and character of John of Cappadocia in Procopius. (Persic. lib.1. c. 24, 25. lib. 2. c. 30. Vandal, lib. 1. c. 13. Anecdot. c. 2. 17. 22.) Theaereement of the history and anecdotes is a mortal wound to the reputation of theprefeot. xaxfc; —a forcible expression.