OCR Output 262 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. those surviving Plataeans who had been friends to the The-ban interest. But afterwards they levelled it with the earth,rooted up its whole foundation, and near to Juno's templeerected a spacious inn two hundred feet square, partitionedwithin both above and below into a range of apartments.In this structure they made use of the roofs and doors thathad belonged to the Plataeans ; and of the other moveablesfound within their houses, of the brass and iron, they madebeds which they consecrated to Juno, in whose honour theyalso erected a fane of stone one hundred feet in diameter.The land being confiscated to public use, was farmed out forten years, and occupied by Thebans. So much, nay sototally averse to the Plataeans were the Lacedaemonians be­come ; and this, merely to gratify the Thebans, whom theyregarded as well able to serve them in the war which wasnow on foot*. And thus was the destruction of Plataeacompleated in the ninety-third year of its alliance with Athens. The forty sail of Peloponnesians, which had been sentto the relief of Lesbos, after flying through the open sea toavoid the pursuit from Athens, were driven by a tempest onthe coast of Crete ; and from thence they separately droppedinto Cyllene a Peloponnesian harbour, where they findthirteen triremes of Leucadians and Ambraciots, with Brasi-das the son of Tellis sent thither purposely to assist Alcidaswith his counsel. It was now the project of the Lacedae- • Thucydides hath here been very sparing of his censure. Nothing badenough can be said of the Lacedaemonian behaviour on this occasion. Toput brave men to death coolly and deliberately, who had most gallantly de­fended themselves, and merely for their steady attachment to liberty andthe Athenians were hated by the Thebans, shews the public spirit of Spar­tans at this time to have been none at all. The city of Plataea, thus bar­barously demolished, was rebuilt after the peace of Antalcidas, which putan end to the Peloponnesian war. But not long after it was again demo­lished by the Thebans, for a refusal to join them against the Lacedaemoni­ans. However, Alexander the Great once more re-established it, in agenerous acknowledgment of the services that little State had renderedto Greece ; and the Hataeans continued, even in the time of Plutarch, tocelebrate the annual festival in honour of those, who at the famous battleof Platae* had died for the liberties of Greece.