OCR Output . ii. ROMAN HISTORY. 41? —No rest at all for the poor Plebeians, who after all their other hardships, are now taxed, although they had brought back nothing from the wars, but bodies worn out with fatigue, wounds, and old age; and at home, found their farms uncultivated through the long absence 'of their owners; and yet, notwithstanding the ruinous 'state of their affairs, tribute they must pay. Thus does' ''the pay of the army return accumulated to the state, as • if it had been let out at interest.' Besides the levies, taxes, and other cases of more im­portance, at the election of the Plebeian tribunes, thenumber could not be completed. The Patricians strug­gled hard to get some of their erder co-opted to fill upthe vacant places; and when they failed in that attempt,they carried that two Plebeians, C. Lacerius, and M.Acutius, should be elected, and that no doubt, by meansof their own influence, for the purpose of invalidatingthe tribonian law. CHAP. XI. Prosecution of Scrgiiis and Virginius. ./\MONG tfiose who had been chosen, there happenedto be one Trebonius, who believ.ed that nothing less wasdue to his name and family, than the defence of a lawinstituted by one of his ancestors. He exclaimed, ' Thatthe military tribunes had extorted what some of thePatricians had sued for in vain, as they had found intheir first attempt; that the Trebohian law was infring­ed, and a co-option of tribunes effected, not by thesuffrages of the people, but by the authority of thePatricians, and the matter was now come to that pass,that the tribunes of the commons were either actuallyPatricians, or their creatures. The sacred laws wereprostituted, and the power of the tribunes trampled un­der foot: and he insisted all these were owing to thefraudulent practices of the Patricians, and the wicked­ness and treachery of his colleagues.'Whilst not only the senators, but even the tribunes,the co-opted as well as the elected, had incurred theodium of the people, these of the collesje, P. Curatius,AL Mitilius, and M. Minutius, afraid of losing their in­