OCR Output 384 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. had *another name among the Greeks.Moreover, he took Daniel the prophet, andcarried him with him into Media, and ho­noured him very greatly, and kept him withhim, for he was one of the three presidentswhom he set over his three hundred and sixtyprovinces. However, while Daniel was in so greatdignity, and in so great favour with Darius,and was alone intrusted with every thing byhim, as having somewhat divine in him, hewas envied by the rest; for those that seeothers in greater honour than themselveswith kings, envy them. And when those thatwere grieved at the great favour Daniel wasin with Darius, sought for an occasion againsthim, he afforded them no occasion at all.For as he was above all the temptations ofmoney, and despised bribery, and esteemedit a very base thing to take any thing by wayof reward, even when it might be justly givenhim, he afforded those that envied him notthe least handle for an accusation. So whenthey could find nothing for which they mightcalumniate him to the king; and thereby de­prive him of the honour he was in; theysought for some other method whereby theymight destroy him. When therefore theysaw that Daniel prayed to God three times aday,f they thought they had found an occa­sion by which they might ruin him. So theycame to Darius, and told him, that the princesand governors had thought proper to allowthe multitude a relaxation for thirty days;that no one might offer a petition or prayereither to himself, or to the gods; but that hewho should transgress this decree should becast into the den of lions, and there perish.J Hereupon the king, not being acquaintedwith their wicked design, nor suspecting thatit was a contrivance against Daniel, said hewas pleased with this decree; and promisedto confirm what they desired; he also pub­lished an edict to promulgate that decreewhich the princes had made. Accordinglyall the rest took care not to transgress those injunctions, and rested in quiet. But Danielhad no regard to them; but as he was wonthe stood and prayed to God in the sight ofthem all. The princes having now met withthe occasion they so earnestly sought, camepresently to the king, and accused Daniel asthe only person who had transgressed thedecree; while not one of the rest durst prayto their gods. This discovery they made,not because of his impiety, but because theyhad watched him and observed him out ofenvy. For supposing that Darius did thusout of a greater kindness to him than theyexpected, and that he was ready to granthim pardon for this contempt of his injunc­tions; and envying this very pardon to Daniel,they did not become more favourable to him,but desired he might be cast into the den oflions, according to the law. So Darius, ho­ping that God would deliver him, and thathe would undergo nothing that was terribleby the wild beasts; bade him bear this acci­dent cheerfully: and when he was cast intothe den, he put his seal to the stone that layupon the mouth of the den, and went his way.He then passed all the night without food,and without sleep; being in great distress forDaniel. But when it was day, he got up, andcame to the den; and found the seal entire,which he had left the stone sealed withal;he also opened the seal, and called to Daniel,and asked him if he were alive? And as soonas he heard the king's voice, and said, thathe had suffered no harm; the king gave orderthat he should be drawn up out of the den.Now when his enemies saw that Daniel hadsuffered nothing which was terrible, theywould not own that he was preserved by God,and by his providence; but they said, thatthe lions had been filled with food, and onthat account it was, as they supposed, thatthey would not touch Daniel, nor come tohim. And this they alleged to the king. Batthe king, out of an abhorrence of their wick­edness, gave order that they should throw ina great deal of flesh to the lions; and when * Cyaxares. t It was a constant custom among the Jews, for thosethat were in the country, or in any distant land, to turnthemselves towards Jerusalem; and for those that were atJerusalem, to turn towards the temple, when they prayed;and the probable reason of this might be, the words ofSolomon, in his prayer to God, at the consecration of the temple: If thy people, when led away captive, pray untothee toward their land which thou gavest unto their fa­thers, the city, which thou hast chosen, and the house,which 1 have built for thy name; then hear thou theirprayers, and their supplication, in heaven, thy dwellingplace, and maintain their cause, 1 Kings viii. 48, 49. B.X Daniel vi. 7.