OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 69 considered not only how tedious the siege of a city is,but also how ineffectually he himself, going back vic­torious from the Trebia, .had attempted that samecolony. 40. The consuls, taking different routes, when settingout to open the campaign, drew the anxiety of the pub­lic in opposite directions, as if to two distinct wars atonce; for, besides their recollection of the heavy cala­mities which Hannibal's first coming had brought onItaly, people were farther distressed by doubts of theissue. 'What gods,' said they to themselves, ' wouldbe so propitious to the city, and to the empire, as togrant success to their arms in both quarters at the sametime? Hitherto the business had been protracted by acounterpoise of successes and misfortunes. When inItaly, at the Thrasymenus and Cannae, the Roman powerhad been crushed to the earth, a number of successfulefforts in Spain had raised it up from its fallen state:when afterwards, in Spain, a succession of defeats, inwhich two excellent commanders were lost, had, in agreat measure, ruined the two armies, the many ad­vantages gained by the Roman arms in Italy and Si­cily had afforded shelter to the shattered vessel of thestate. Besides, even the distance of place, one warbeing then carried on in the remotest extremity of theworld, allowed room to breathe: but now, two warshad penetrated into the very heart of Italy; two com­manders, of the most distinguished reputation, stoodon the opposite sides of the city of Rome; and thewhole mass of danger, the intire burden, pressed onone spot. Whichever of these commanders shouldfirst gain a battle, he would, in a few days after, joinhis camp with the other.' The preceding year, also,having been saddened by the deaths of the two consuls,served to augment the general apprehensions. Suchwere the melancholy forebodings which perplexed theminds of the people, as they escorted the commanderson their departure to their provinces. Historians havementioned, that Marcus Livius, when setting out forthe campaign, being still full of resentment against his >