OCR Output 208 LI VY. sovereignty, both by land and sea, over foreign realms.I am far from denying that you have some reason todistrust the faith of the Carthaginians, on account ofthe insincerity which they showed in their solicitations,and in not waiting the issue of the negotiation. Scipio,the security of a peace being observed depends muchon the character of those who sue for it. Your senate,I hear, refused to grant it, partly from the considera­tion that the persons employed in the embassy werenot sufficiently respectable. Hannibal sues for peace,who would not sue for it unless he thought it expedient;and who on account of the same expediency which in­duces him to sue for it, will also maintain it. And asbecause the war was begun by me, I took effectualcare, until the gods themselves declared against me,that my countrymen should have no reason to com­plain of it, so will I exert my utmost endeavors tomake them satisfied with a peace procured by anymeans.' 31. The Roman general answered to this effect:'Hannibal, it was not unknown to me that their ex­pectation of your arrival was what urged the Cartha­ginians to violate the truce subsisting, and to break offthe treaty of peace. Nor do you dissemble it; as youdeduct from the former conditions every particular,except those which are, for some time past, in ourown power. But as you are solicitous that your coun­trymen should understand how great a burden theyare relieved from by your means, so it is my bu­siness to endeavor that they shall not now retractthe concessions which they then agreed to make, andenjoy what they then ceded, as a reward of theirperfidy. Unworthy of being allowed the same terms,you require additional advantages in consequence ofyour treachery. Neither were our fathers the ag­gressors in the war of Sicily, nor we in that ofSpain. In the former case the danger of their alliesthe Mamertines; in the latter, the destruction of Sa-guntum, armed us in the cause of justice and of duty.That you were the aggressors, you yourself acknow­