OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 367 the spheres of each of the elements remain on account of theirsubsistence as wholes, always according to nature, the parts ofthese wholes have sometimes a natural and sometimes an unna­tural subsistence: for tints alone can \he circle of generationunfold all the variety which it contains. But the different periods in which these mutations happen,are called by Plato, with great propriety, periods of fertility andfierility: for in these periods a fertility or sterility of men, ani­mals and plants takes place; so that in fertile periods mankindwill be both more numerous, and upon the whole superior inmental and bodily endowments to the men of a barren period.And a similar reasoning must be extended to animals and plants.This is signified by Plato, though obscurely, in the followingpassage from the eighth book of his Republic: yahiwi pi, •ttuc^m £tij-«(7j{ Toy a7ra.Ha fxein Xfoito, aXha AtSWtlai. awj; o*e rjJi. oustorey <p<Pioi( ryyno>{, «W.a xai a W/aoif £«oif <pofa, itj asojtx ^vyrtf n,& ffufMalvr ytyvtlxi, olxv vtfijoo^rai i«-ijT)c kvi&w Trsp^&paj avvxwluo'hCja^uCioif fim (3faxivsrr.pt>vi, ituilut; ot ivxtltxf. i. e. "It is difficultfor a city so constituted to be moved from its establishment. Butsince every thing which is generated is obnoxious to corruption,neither can a constitution of this kind remain perpetually,but mustbe dissolved. And its dissolution is this: ji fertility and'sterilityof foul and bodies not only takes place in terrene plants, but also in ter­rene animals, when the revolutions of each of these conjoin the ambitsof their circles; -which are shorter to the shorter-lived, and con­trary-wife to the contrary." The so much celebrated heroic age, therefore, was the result ofone of these fertile periods, in which men, transcending theherd of mankind both in practical and intellectual virtue,abounded on the earth. But in consequence of that beautiful pro­gression of things which takes place throughout the universe,viz. in consequence of multitude every where being suspendedfrom a monad,or uniting cause; and multitude exquisitely allied to 4