OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. barbarians who had never beheld Italy till they entered it in a ho­stile manner. Had they not been restrained by motives of a moreinterested nature, they would probably have answered Galerius inthe words of Cæsar's veterans: "If our general wishes to lead us"to the banks of the Tyber, we are prepared to trace out his camp."Whatsoever walls he has determined to level with the ground,"our hands are ready to work the engines: nor shall we hesitate,"should the name of the devoted city be Rome itself." These areindeed the expressions of a poet; but of a poet who had diligentlyconsulted both history and human nature *\ The legions of Galerius exhibited a very melancholy proof of His retreat;,their disposition by the ravages which they committed in theirretreat. They murdered, they ravished, they plundered, theydrove away the flocks and herds of the Italians, they burnt thevillages through which they passed, and they endeavoured todestroy the country, which it had not been in their power tosubdue. During the whole march, Maxentius hung on their reaT,but he very prudently declined a general engagement with thosebrave and desperate veterans. His father had undertaken a secondjourney into Gaul, with the hope of persuading Constantine, who. .had assembled an army on the frontier, to join the pursuit and tocomplete the victory. But the actions of Constantine were guidedby reason and not by resentment. He persisted in the wise reso­lution of maintaining a balance of power in the divided empire, andhe no longer hated Galerius, when that aspiring prince had ceasedto be an object of terror *8. The mind of Galerius was the most susceptible of the sterner Elevation ofpassions, but it was not however incapable of a sincere and lasting rankofAji-friendship. Licinius, whose manners as well as character were ^i)\07,not unlike his own, seems to have engaged both his affection and NovemberIIiesteem. Their intimacy had commenced in the happier periodperhaps of their youth and obscurity. It had been cemented by the