OCR Output 308 TIIE SARMATIANS INVADE MYSIA. [B. VII. brought to punishment; for as soon as ever the news of theirrevolt was come to Rome, and Caesar Domitian was made ac­quainted with it, ho made no delay even at that his age, whenhe was exceeding young, but undertook this weighty affair.He had a courageous mind from his father, and had madegreater improvements than belonged to such an age: accord­ingly, he marched against the barbarians immediately; where­upon their hearts failed them at the very rumor of his ap­proach, and they submitted themselves to him with fear, andthought it a happy thing that they were brought under theirold yoke again without suffering any farther mischiefs. When,therefore, Domitian had settled all the affairs of Gaul in suchgood order, that it would not be easily put into disorder anymore, he returned to Rome with honor and glory, as havingperformed such exploits as were above his own age, but worthyof so great a father. 3. At the very same time with the forementioned revolt ofthe Germans, did the bold attempt of the Scythians againstthe Romans concur; for those Scythians who are called Sar-matians, being a very numerous people, transported them­selves over the Danube into Mysia without being perceived;after which by their violence and entirely unexpected assault,they slew a great many of the Romans that guarded thefrontiers; and as the consular legate Fonteius Agrippa cameto meet them, and fought courageously against them, he wasslain by them. They then overran all the region that hadbeen subject to him, tearing and rending every thing that fellin their way. But when Vespasian was informed of what hadhappened, and how Mysia was laid waste, he sent away Ru-brius Gallus to punish these Sarmatians; by whose meansmany of them perished in the battles he fought against them,and that part which escaped fled with fear to their own country.So when this general had put an end to the war, he providedfor the future security of the country also; for ho placed moreand more numerous garrisons in the place, till he made it al­together impossible for the barbarians to pass over the river anymore. And thus had this war in Mysia a sudden conclusion.