OCR Output 766 ROMA. two ancient inscriptions from Marini's Atti oV Fra-UUi ArvaU (p. 212); in which a basilica Opimia isrecorded; and Becker, in his Anttcort (p. 33), con­fessing that lie had overlooked these inscriptions,retracted his doubts, and acknowledged the existenceof a basilica. According to Varro, then, the AedisConcordiae and basliea of Opimius were close tothe senaculurn; and the situation of the senaculurr.is pointed oat by FestUS between the Capitol andforum: "Unum (Senaculurn) ubi nunc est aedisConcordiae, inter Capitoliura et Forum" (p. 3-47,Mull.). This description corresponds exactly with thesite where the present remains of a temple of Con­cord are unanimously agreed to exist: remains, how­ever, which are supposed to be tiiose of the templefounded by Camillas, and not of that founded byOpimius. According to this supposition there musthave been two temples of Concord on the forum.But if these remains belong to that of Camillas,■who shall point out those of the temple erected byOpimius? Where was its site? What its history?When was it demolished, and its place either leftvacant or occupied by another building? Appian,as we have seen, expressly says that the temple builtby Opimius was in the forum; where is the evidencethat the temple of Camillus was also in the forum?There if positively none. Plutarch, the only directevidence as to its site, says no such thing, but onlythat it looked down upon the forum: tyijeWourre tj;? fUP 'O/ioWai itphv, wcircp 7jC£aro 6 Kd/uAAo?,tff T7]v ayopav Kal tis T7/v ^KK\r}(riav Slttovtov £ttiTtm yeytvrjufi'ots itipvaaadai (C<unUL 42). Nowwpopaw means to view from a distance, and espe­cially from a height It Ls equivalent to the Latinprotpieertt the very term used by Ovid in describingthe same temple:— "Nunc bene prospicies Latiam, Concordia, turbam." These expressions, then, like Ovid's allusion to the"sublimes gradns" of Moueta, point to the Arx asthe site of the temple. It is remarkable that Lucan(Phar*. i. 19")) employs the same word when de­scribing the temple of Jupiter Tonans, erected byAugustus, also situated upon the Arx, or liupesTarpeta:— "0 magnac qui mocnia prospicis urbis Tarpeta do rape Tonans." This temple, indeed, has also been placed on theclivus, on the authority of the pseudo-Victor, andagainst the express evidence of the best authorities.Thus an inscription in Grutcr (Ixxii. No. 5), con­sisting of some lines addressed to Fort una, likewiseplaces the Jupiter Tonans on the Tarpeian rock:— u Tu quae Tar[>eio coleris vieina TonantiVotorum vindex semper fortuna meorum," &c.Suetonius (Aug. c. 29 and 91), Pliny (xxxri 6)and the Mon. Ancyranum, place it "in Capi-tolio," meaning the Capitoline hill. It 1ms beenabsurdly inferred that it was on the clivus, be­cause Dion says that those who were g"ing up tothe great temple of Jupiter met with it first, — Sri■parrel ol ttVtoVrcs is to KatrnuXiov h'trtf/xavov(Ht. 4). which they no doubt would do, since theclivus led first to the western height. On these grounds, then, we are inclined to believethat the temple of Concord erected by Camillus stoodon the Arx, and could not, therefore, have had anysteps leading to the temple of Juno Moneta. Thelatter was likewise founded by Camillus, as welearn from Livy and Ovid :— "Arce qnoque in summa Junoni trmpli 1Ex voto memorant facta, Camilfe, too:Ante domus Manli foer&nt" (Fa*, vi. IS}); and thus these two great works of the ocmstood, as was natural, close together, aU « 4itemple of Concord and the basilica fabeqenaj1erected by Opimius also adjoined one mother a *Jnear the clivus. It is no objection totaaeJBthat there was another small temple <rfG«the /Irx, which had been vow«Manlius in Gaul during a seditk'Die vow had been almost overt*lapse of two years it was recollected, acd :bf tflfjlerected in discharge of it. (Liv. xxii.S3.) ltaaajtherefore, to have been a small affair, sal allvery well have coexisted on the Arx wfjj oStland more splendid temple. But to return to Becker's arguments. IWflproof adduced is Caligula's bridge. "Csafflhe says, as Binisen ha* remarked. - caa*4 *M|to be thrown from the Palatine hill ewer tfct vmof Augustus (and probably the Bauika JafSthe Capitoline temple, which is altoeeftaflconceivable if the latter was on the haffl.1 r to ii, as in that case the bridge iccst bsvalconducted over the forum" (p. 393). ImBecker goes further tkm bis author. *h*4says that Caligula threw a bridge from the Faflhill to the Capitoline: "Super t em pleat aflHgusti ponte transmisso, Palatium CapiufiaSconjunxit." (Suet, CaL 22.) Becker oaflrenders Palatium by the ** Palatine hflflwhen he comes to the other hill he caaaaainto a temple. Suetonius oof the use of these words in a passageWe had occasion to allude just now, itemple of Jupiter Tonans : '* Temp!am Af4HPalatio (extruxit), aedem Tonanti* Jowa Ba^tolio" (Aug. 29) ; where, if Becker's *Tright, we might by analogy translate.—*fcMa temple of Apollo in the palace." The next proof is that a lar^e piece nf ■down from the Capitol ("ex Capitidio") iniatfflJngarirts(Liv. xxxv. 21); and as the V*a»ran under the S. summit, this shows thai 1toline temple was upon it. Bat pieces ef Idown from hills, not from building*, *M. ICapitolium here only means the haSLmanner when Livy says (axxriiL W), *tionem super Aemiimelium in Capitohu Iloravemnt)," it is plain that be mahill; and consequently this passage i» iof this use of the word. The Aequraesiby the Virus Jugarius, and o.-uld n<-t, ibefeftaVbeen on the Capitol properly so called, e**fle^Hhad been on the SW. height. Becker vreaajHlates this passage,—u a substruction ofdmtover the Acjuiinelium" (p. 3**3.) Thee eaaajpassage respecting the statue at Jupiter baeaejltowards the east, that it might behead aafland curia; which Becker maintains to be wtMof a statue erected on the height of .Iraaaa^Hwho have seen the ground will net bacoincide in this opinion. The rfraacolumn (I>ion Cass. xxxviL 9: Cic. Z>m. 1Id. Cat. iii. 8). and most probably imttemple — it could hardly have bean paaaeKit; and, therefore, if the t em pie wata aaflheight, the statue must hare been at taeaaaof it; a site which certainly would nca 4veiy good view of the forum. Next the el e r.eaal - 1