OCR Output C. IX.] SIMON OF GERASA. 143 12. And thus did Simon get possession of Jerusalem in thothird year of the war, in the month Xanthicus [Nisan;] where足upon John, with his multitude of zealots, as being both pro足hibited from coming out of the temple, and having lost theirpower in the city (for Simon and his party had plunderedthem of what they had,) were in despair of deliverance. Simonalso made an assault upon the temple, with the assistance ofthe people, while the others stood upon the cloisters and thebattlements, and defended themselves from their assaults.However, a considerable number of Simon's party fell, andmany were carried off wounded, for the zealots threw theirdarts easily from a superior place, and seldom failed of hittingtheir enemies; but having tho advantage of situation, andhaving withal erected four very large towers aforehand, thattheir darts might come from higher places, one at the south足east corner of the court, one above the Xystus, the third atanother corner, over against the lower city, and the last waserected above the top of the Pastophoria, where one of thepriests stood of course, and gave a signal' beforehand with atrumpet, at the beginning of every seventh day, in the eveningtwilight, as also at the evening when that day was finished, asgiving notice to the people when they were to leave off workand when they were to go to work again. These men also settheir engines to cast darts and stones withal upon those towers,with their archers and slingers. And now Simon made hisassault upon the temple more faintly, by reason that thegreatest part of his men grew weary of that work; yet did henot leave off his opposition, because his army was superior tothe others, although the darts which were thrown by the en足gines were carried a great way, and slew many of those thatfought for him. 1 This beginning and ending the observation of the Jewish seventh day, orSabbath, with a priest's blowing of a trumpet, is remarkable, and nowhereelse mentioned, that I know of. Nor is Reland's conjecture here improbable,that this was the very place that has puzzled our commentators so long,called Mutach Sabalti, the Covert of the Sabbath, if that be the true reading,2 Kings xvi. 18, because here the proper priest stood dry, under a covering,to proclaim the beginning and ending of every Jewish Sabbath.