OCR Output C. IV.] TO THE JEWS. 281 sent embassies, and congratulated our access to the govern­ment, then did you Jews show yourselves to be our enemies.You sent embassies to those of your nation that are beyondEuphrates to assist you in your raising disturbances; newwalls were built by you round your city, seditions arose, andone tyrant contended against another, and a civil war brokeout among you; such, indeed, as became none but so wickeda people as you are. I then came to this city, as unwillinglysent by my father, and received melancholy injunctions fromhim. When I heard that the people were disposed to peace,I rejoiced at it: I exhorted you to leave off these proceedings,before I began this war : I spared you, even when you hadfought against me a great while: I gave my right hand assecurity to the deserters: I observed what I had promisedfaithfully. When they fled to me, I had compassion on manyof those I had taken captive : I tortured those that were eagerfor war, in order to restrain them. It was unwillingly thatI brought my engines of war against your walls: I alwaysprohibited my soldiers, when they were set upon yourslaughter, from their severity against you. After everyvictory I persuaded you to peace, as though I had been my­self conquered. When I came near your temple, I again de­parted from the laws of war, and exhorted you to spare yourown sanctuary, and to preserve your holy house to yourselves.I allowed you a quiet exit out of it, and security for yourpreservation; nay, if you had a mind, I gave you leavo tofight in another place. Yet have you still despised everyone of my proposals, and have set fire to your holy housewith your own hands. And now, vile wretches, do you desireto treat with me by word of mouth ? to what purpose is it thatyou would save such a holy house as this was, which is nowdestroyed ? what preservation can you now desire after thedestruction of your temple ? Yet do you stand still at thisvery time in your armor ; nor can you bring yourselves somuch as to pretend to be supplicants, even in this your utmostextremity. O miserable creatures ! what is it you depend on ?Are not your people dead ? is not your holy house gone ? isnot your city in my power ? and are not your own very lives 24*