OCR Output 18 [A.U.C. 767. THE ANNALS own rank, he was determined to act with the strictestself-denial. This had the appearance of moderation,but envy was the source. By the honours intendedto his mother, he thought his own glory might boeclipsed, and, in that spirit, prevented a decree, bywhich a lictor was ordered to attend her; nor wouldhe suffer an altar to be raised on account of her adop­tion into the Julian family. Other marks of distinc­tion were proposed, and rejected. Germanicus waamore favourably treated: for him Tiberius desiredthe rank of proconsul. Special messengers were sentto invest him with his honours, and at the same timeto condole with him on the loss of Augustus. Drusuawas then at Rome; and, being consul designed, in hisfavour nothing new was demanded. By virtue of theimperial prerogative, twelve candidates were namedfor the prsetorship. That number had been settled byAugustus; and though the senate entreated Tiberiusto enlarge the lis), he bound himself by an oath neverto exceed the line already drawn. XV. The right of electing magistrates, by publicsuffrage, in the Field of Mars, was now, for the firsttime, taken from the people at large, and vested inthe senate. The will of the prince had, before thattime, great influence in all elections; but parties wereformed among the tribes, and sometimes with success.To this encroachment the people made no opposition :they saw their rights taken from them ; they grumbledand submitted. The senators were pleased with thechange. They were now delivered from the necessi­ty of humiliating condescensions in the course of theircanvass, and from the heavy expense of bribery andcorruption. The moderation of Tiberius was a furthercircumstance in favour of the measure; four candi­dates of his nomination were implicitly to be chosen,without intrigue or contention; and the prince, con­tent with that number, promised not to stretch hisprerogative. The tribunes of the people applied forleave to celebrate, at their own expense, the gamesnewly instituted in honour of Augustus, and orderedto be added to the calendar, under the title of the Au­gustan Games. A decree passed; but the expense