OCR Output AttTIOJUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX. CHAP. VII. Felix is made procurator of 'Judea ; as also concerning Agrippajunior and his sisters. § 1. CO Claudius sent Felix, the brother of Pallans, to take^ care of the affairs of Judea ; and, when he had alreadycompleted the twelfth year of his reign, he had bestowedupon Agrippa the tetrarchy of Philip and Batanea, and addedthereto Trachonitis, with Abila; which last had been the tetrar-'\ chy of Lysanias; but he took from him Chalcis, when he had^ been governor thereof four years. And, when Agrippa hadreceived these countries as the'gift of Caesar, he gave his sisterIXrusilla in marriage to Azizus, king of Emesa, upon his con­sent to be circumcised ; for Epiphaaes, the son of king An-tiochus, had refused to marry her, because, after he had pro­mised her father formerly to come over to the Jewish religion,he would not now perform that promise. He also gave Ma-riamne in marriage to Archelaus, the son of Helcias, to whomshe had formerly been betrothed by Agrippa her father ; fromwhich marriage was derived a daughter, whoie name was Ber*nice. 2. But for the marriage of Drusilla with Azizus, it was inno long time afterward dissolved upon the following occasion ;While Felix was procurator of Judea, he saw this Drusilla, andfell in love with her ; for she did indeed exceed all other womenin beauty ; and he sent to her a person whose name was Simon *, one * This Simon, a friend of Felix, a Jew, born in Cyprus, though he pretendedto be a magician, and seems to have been wicked enough, could hardly be thatfamous Simon the magician, in the Acts of the Apostles, viii. 9. &c as some areready to suppose. This Simon mentioned in the Acts was not properly a Jew, bata Samaritan, of the town of Gittae, in the country of Samaria, as the ApostolicalConstitutions, VI. 7. the Recognitions of Clement, II. 6. and Justin Martyr, him-self born in the country of Samaria, Apology, 1. 34. inform us. He was also theauthor, not of any ancient Jewish, but of the first Gentile heresies, as the fore-mentioned authors assure us. So I suppose him a different person from the other.I mean this only upon the hypothesis, that Josephus was not misinformed as tohisfeeing a Cypriot Jew ; for otherwise the time, the name, the profession, and thewickedness of them both, would strongly incline one to believe them the very same.As to that Drusilla, the sister of Agrippa junior, as Josephus informs us here,:md a Jewess, as St Luke informs us, Acts, xxiv. 74. whom this Simon mentionedby Josephus, persuaded to leave her former husband, Azizus, king of Emesa, aproselyte of justice, and to marry Felix, the heathen procurator of Judea, Tacit.Hist. V. 9. supposes her to be an heathen, and the grand-daughter of Antoniusand Cleopatra, contrary both to St Luke and Josephus. Now Tacitus lived some­what too remote, both as to time and place, to be compared with either of thoseJewish writers, in a matter concerning the Jews in Judea in their own days, andconcerning a sister of Agrippa junior, with which Agrippa Josephus was himselfso well acquainted. It is probable that Tacitus may say true, when he informsus, that this Felix (who had in all three wives, or queens, as Suetonius in Clau*dius, sect. 28. assures us) did once marry such a grandchild of Antonius andCleopatra; and, finding the name of one of them to have been Drusilla, he mis­took her for that other wife, whose name he did not know.