OCR Output CHA#. XLIV.] OF THE- BOM AN EMPfRE. tit spirit of a prince, who sold without shame his judgmentsand his laws/ The charge of the secret historian is in­deed explicit and vehement; but the sole instance,which he produces, may be ascribed to the devotion aswell as to the avarice of Justinian, A wealthy bigot hadbequeathed his inheritance to the church of Emesa; andits value was enhanced by the dexterity of an artist, whosubscribed confessions of debt and promises of payment'with the names of the richest Syrians. They pleadedthe established prescription of thirty or forty years; buttheir defence was overruled by a retrospective edict,which extended the claims of the church to the term ofa century; an edict so pregnant with injustice and dis- v>?order, that after serving this occasional purpose, it was5 ". \'prudently abolished in the same reign.d If candour will • *■- *aoquit the emperor himself, and transfer the corruptionto his wife and favourites, the suspicion of so foul a vicemust still degrade the majesty of his laws: and the advo*eates of Justinian may acknowledge, that such levity,whatsoever be the motive, is unworthy of a legislatorand a man, Monarchs seldom condescend to become the preeep The in»u-tors of their subjects; and some praise is due to Justi* a. d. sju,nian, by whose command an ample system was reduced Nov"ai*to a short and elementary treatise. Among the variousinstitutes of the Roman law," those of Caius' were themost popular in the east and west; and their use may beconsidered as an evidence of their merit. They wene « Montesquieu, Consideration gar h Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains, fe,$0. torn. 3. p. oftl. in 4to. Op this oocasien he throws aside the gown and cap of apresident a Mortier. - * IVocopius, Aoecdot. e. 28. A similar privilege was granted to the church ofBorne. (Novel.'9.) For the general repeal of these mischievous indulgences, Seenovel. 111. and edict. V i • Laotantius, in his Institutes of Christianity, an elegant and specioas work, pro-'poses to imitate the title and method of the civilians. Quidam prndtsntes et arbitrisoquitatis Institationes Civilis Juris compositas ediderunt. (Institut. Divin. lib. 1. c 1.}- Such as Clpiau, Pad), Florentines, Marcian. I The emperor Justinian calls him saum, though he died before the end of the sa-• ootid century. His Institutes are quoted by Servius, Boethias, Priician, &e. and theEpitome by Arrian is still extant; (see the prolegomena and notes to the edition of^Sehulting, in the Jurisprudents Ante-Justiuianea, Lugd, Bat. 1717. Heineccius,Hist. J. R. no. 313. Ludewig, iu Vit. Just. p. 199.)' • ■ • ■ . 2 A 2