OCR Output 120 FURTHER CRUELTIES. [B. IV. a distemper at home; for should we now conquer tliem, itwould be said the conquest was not owing to our bravery, butto their sedition." 3. And now the commanders joined in their approbationof what Vespasian had said, and it was soon discovered howwise an opinion he had given. And, indeed, many there wereof the Jews that deserted every day, and fled away from thezealots, although their flight was very difficult, since they hadguarded every passage out of the city, and slew every onethat was caught at them, as taking it for granted they weregoing over to the Romans; yet did he who gave them moneyget clear off, while he only that gave them none was voted atraitor. So the upshot was this, that the rich purchased theirflight by money, while none but the poor were slain. Alongall the roads also vast numbers of dead bodies lay on heaps,and even many of those that were so zealous in deserting atlength chose rather to perish within the city; for the hopesof burial made death in their own city appear of the two lessterrible to them. But these zealots came at last to that de­gree of barbarity, as not to bestow a burial either on thoseslain in the city or on those that lay along the roads; but asif they had made an agreement to cancel both the laws oftheir country and the laws of nature, and at the same timethat they defiled men with their wicked actions, they wouldpollute the divinity itself also, they left the dead bodies toputrefy under the sun : and the same punishment was allottedto such as buried any, as to those that deserted, which wasno other than death; while he that granted the favor of agrave to another would presently stand in need of a gravehimself. To say all in a word, no other gentle passion wasso entirely lost among them as mercy; for what were thegreatest objects of pity did most of all irritate these wretches,and they transferred their rage from the living to those thathad been slain, and from the dead to the living. Nay, theterror was so very great, that he who survived called themthat were first dead happy, as being at rest already; as didthose that were under torture in the prisons declare, that,upon this comparison, those that lay unburied were the happi­