OCR Output 340 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA. The Pam- nites anddemocratsattackHome. 82. Its leaders then determined to desist from the relief ofPraeneste and to throw themselves with all their unitedstrength on Home, which was only a good day's marchdistant. By so doing they were, in a military point ofview, ruined; their line of retreat, the Latin road, wouldby such a movement fall into Sulla's hands; and, even if theygot possession of Home, they would be infallibly crushedthere, enclosed as they would be within a city by no meansfitted for defence, and wedged in between the far superiorarmies of Metellus and Sulla. Safety, however, was nolonger thought of; revenge alone dictated this march toRome, the last outbreak of fury in the passionate revolu­tionists and especially in the despairing Sabellian nation.Pontius of Telesia was in earnest, when he called out to hisfollowers that, in order to get rid of the wolves which hadrobbed Italy of freedom, the forest in which they harbouredmust be destroyed. Never was Rome in more fearful perilthan on the 1st November, 672, when Pontius, Lam nonius,Carrinas, Damasippus advanced along the Latin road to­wards Rome, and encamped about a quarter of a mile fromthe Colline gate. It was threatened with a day like the389. 20th July, 365 v.c. or the 15th June, 455 a.d.—the daysof the Celts and the Vandals. The time was gone by whena coup de main against Rome was a foolish enterprise, andthe assailants could have no want of connections in thecapital. The band of volunteers which sallied from thecity, mostly noble youths, was scattered like chaff beforethe immense superiority of force. The only hope of safetyBattle at rested on Sulla. The latter, on receiving accounts of thethe Colline departure of the Samnite army in the direction of Rome,sate- had likewise set out in all haste to the assistance of the capital. The appearance of his foremost horsemen underBalbus in the course of the morning revived the sinkingcourage of the citizens; about midday he appeared in personwith his main force, and immediately drew up his ranks forbattle at the temple of the Erycine Aphrodite before theColline gate (not far from Porta Pia). His officers adjuredhim not to send tho troops exhausted by the forced marchat once into action; but Sulla took into consideration whatthe night might bring on Rome, and, late as it was in theafternoon, ordered the attack. The battle was obstinatelycontested and bloody. The left wing of Sulla, which he ledin person, fell back as far as the city wall, so that it became