OCR Output 448 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. did not leave off fighting with the Idumeans:but pressed upon them on all sides, and tookfrom them the city of Hebron, and demolishedall its fortifications, and set its towers on fire,and burnt the country of the foreigners, andthe city Marissa. They came also to Ashdod,and took it, and laid it waste, and took awaya great deal of the spoils and prey that werein it, and returned to Judea. CHAP. IX. CONCERNING THE DEATH OF ANTIOCHUS EFIPHANES J ANDTHE CONDUCT OF ANTIOCHDS EUPATOR TOWARDS JUDASMACCABEUS. ALSO OF ALCIMUS AND ONIAS. ABOUT this time king Antiochus, as hewas going over the upper countries,heard that there was a very rich city in Per­sia, called Elymais; and therein a very richtemple of Diana; and that it was full of allsorts of donations dedicated to it, as also ofweapons and breast-plates: which, upon in­quiry, he found had been left there by Alex­ander, the son of Philip, king of Macedon.And being incited by these motives, he wentin haste to Elymais, and assaulted and be­sieged it. But as those that were in it werenot terrified at his assault, nor at his siege,but opposed him courageously, he was beatenoff his hopes. For they drove him away fromthe city, and went out, and pursued after him:insomuch that he fled away as far as Baby­lon; and lost a great many of his army. Andwhen he was grieving for this disappoint­ment, some persons told him of the defeat ofhis commanders whom he had left to fightagainst Judea; and what strength the Jewshad already gotten. When this concernabout these affairs was added to the former,he was confounded: and, by the anxiety hewas in, fell into a distemper; which, as itlasted a great while, and as his pains in- creased upon him, so he at length perceivedhe should die in a little time. So he calledhis friends to him; and told them, that hisdistemper was severe upon him: and con­fessed withal that this calamity was sent uponhim for the miseries he had brought upon theJewish nation;* while he plundered theirtemple, and contemned their God. Andwhen he had said this, he gave up the ghost.Whence one may wonder at Polybius ofMegalopolis; who, though otherwise a goodman, yet saith, that "Antiochus died be­cause he had a purpose to plunder the tem­ple of fDiana in Persia." For the {purposingto do a thing, but not actually doing it, is notworthy of punishment. But if Polybius couldthink, that Antiochus thus lost his life onthat account, it is much more probable thatthis king died on account of his sacrilegiousplundering of the temple at Jerusalem. Butwe will not contend about this matter, withthose who may think that the cause assignedby this Polybius of Megalopolis, is nearer thetruth than that assigned by us. However, Antiochus, before he died, calledfor Philip, who was one of his companions;and made him the guardian of his kingdom.And gave him his diadem, and his garment,and his ring: and charged him to deliverthem to his son Antiochus; and ||desired himto take care of his education, and to preservethe kingdom for him. This Antiochus diedin the hundred and forty-ninth year. But itwas Lysias that declared his death to themultitude, and appointed his son Antiochusto be king, of whom at present he had thecare; and called himEupator. At this time it was that the garrison in thecitadel at Jerusalem, with the Jewish run­agates, did a great deal of harm to the Jews.For the soldiers that were in that garrisonrushed out upon the sudden, and destroyed * 1 Mace, vi. 12. f Dr. Hudson observes here, that Jerom upon Danielxi. says, "Polybius and Diodoras both relate how thisAntiochus attempted to seize upon the spoils of the templeof Elymais, which was full of riches." Hudson also notesthat "Strabo places this temple of Diana at Elymais."XVI. page 744. See Authentic Records, part I. page226, and Prideaux at the year 164. J Since St. Paul, a Pharisee, confesses that he had notknown concupiscence, or desires to be sinful, had not thetenth commandment said, "Thou shalt not covet," Rom.vii. 7. the case seems to have been much the same with our Josephus, who was of the same sect, that he had nota deep sense of the greatness of any sins that proceededno farther than the intention. However, since Josephusspeaks here properly of the punishment of death, whichis not inflicted by any law either of God or man for thebare intention, his words need not be strained to meanthat sins intended, but not executed, were no sins at all. II No wonder that Josephus here describes AntiochusEupator as young, and wanting tuition, when he cameto the crown: since Appian informs us, (Dr. Hudsonnotes here,) Syriac. page 177. that he was then butnine years old.