OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rank and merit had been long depressed by the jealousyof the court. Theodora had injured him in the rightsof a private citizen, the marriage of his children, and thetestament of his brother; and although his conduct waspure and blameless, Justinian was displeased that he shouldbe thought worthy of the confidence of the malecontents.The life of Germanus was a lesson of implicit obedience;he nobly refused to prostitute his name and character inthe factions of the circus: the gravity of his manners wastempered by innocent cheerfulness; and his riches werelent without interest to indigent or deserving friends.His valour had formerly triumphed over the Sclavoniansof the Danube and the rebels of Africa: the first reportof his promotion revived the hopes of the Italians: andhe was privately assured, that a crowd of Roman desert­ers would abandon, on his approach, the standard ofTotila. His second marriage with Malasontha, thegrand-daughter of Theodoric, endeared Germanus to theGoths themselves; and they marched with reluctanceagainst the father of a royal infant, the last offspring ofthe line of Amali.d A splendid allowance was assignedby the emperor : the general contributed his private for­tune ; his two sons were popular and active; and he sur­passed, in the promptitude and success of his levies, theexpectation of mankind. He was permitted to selectsome squadrons of Thracian cavalry: the veterans, aswell as the youth of Constantinople and Europe, engagedtheir voluntary service; and as far as the heart of Ger­many, his fame and liberality attracted the aid of the bar­barians. The Romans advanced to Sardica; an army ofSclavonians fled before their march; but within twodays of their final departure, the designs of Germanuswere terminated by his malady and death. Yet the im­pulse which he had given to the Italian war still continued nancies, fratri sno, Alemannus has proved that he was the son of the emperor'sbrother. d Conjuncta Aniciorum gent cam Amala stirpe spem ad boo utri usque generispromittit. (Jornandes, e. 60. p. 703.) He -wrote at Ravenna before the death ofTotila. '.' ..' .'-v . .'.. . i VOL. V. U