OCR Output LAPURDUM. 125 LAElXTjM. bestowed on them their freedom, and also restoredtheir dry. (Dion Cass. li. 2.) When Christianitywas established. Lappa became an episcopal see;tiie name of its bishop is recorded as present at theSynod of Ephesus. A. D. 431, and the Council ofCbaleedon, A. D. 451, as well as on many other sub­sequent occasions. (Cornelius, Creta Sacra, vol. i.pp. 251, 252.) Lappa was 32 SI. P. from Eleuthema and 9 MP.from Cisamus, the port of Aptera {Peut. Tab."); dis­tances which agree very well with Polis, the modernrepresentative of this famous city, where Mr. Pashley(Travels, vol. i. p. 83) found considerable remains ofa massive brick edifice, with buttresses 15 feet wideand of 9 feet projection ; a circular building, 60 feetdiameter, with niches round it 11 feet wide; a cistern,76 ft. by 20 ft; a Roman brick building, and severaltombs cut in the rock. (Comp. Mus. Class. Antiq.vol. ii. p. 293.) One of the inscriptions relating to thiscity mentions a certain Marcus Aurelius Clesippus,in whose honour the Lappasans erected a statue.(Grater, p. 1091; Chishull, Antiq. Asiat. p. 122;Mabilion, if as. Ilal p. 33; Bockh, Corp. Iiucr. Gr.voL ii. p. 428.) The head of its benefactor Augustus is exhibitedon the coins of Lappa: one has the epigraph, 0EHKA1ZAP1 ZEBAZTO; others of Domitian andCommodus are found. (Hardouin, Num. Antiq.pp. 93, 94 ; Mionnet, vol. ii. p. 286; Supplem. vol.ir. p. 326 ; Kasche, vol. ii. pi. ii. p. 1493.) On theautonomous coins of Lappa, from which Spanheimsupposed the city to have possessed the right ofasylum.like the Grecian cities enumerated in Tacitus,see Eckhel, vol. iL p. 315. The maritime symbolson the coins of Lappa are accounted for by the ex­tension of its territory to both shores, and the posses­sion of the port of Phoenix. [E. B. J.] LAPURDUM, in Gallia. This place is only men­tioned in the Notilia of the Empire, which fixes itin Xavempopulana; but there is neither any historicaln^dce nor any Itinerary measurement to determineits position. D'Anville, who assumes it to be re­presented by Bnyonne, on the river Adour, says thatthe name of Bayonne succeeded to that of Lapurdum,and the country contained between the Adour andthe Bidasoa has plained the name of Labourd.It is said that the bishopric of Bayonne is not men­tioned before the tenth century. The name BayonneU Basque, and means "port." It seems probablethat Lapurdum may have been on the site of Bayonne;bat it U not certain. [G. L.] LAB FLUV1US. [Cakis Flcmen.]LARANDA (to Adpapoa: Eth. Aapavocvs, f.AaparSis; Larenda or Karaman), one of the mostimportant towns of Lycaonia, 400 stadia to thesouth-east of Iconium. Strabo (xii. p. 569) statesthat the town belonged to Antipater of Derbe, whichUiows that for a time it was governed by nativeprinces. Respecting its history in antiquity scarcelyanything is known beyond the fact that it was takenfcr storm, and destroyed by Perdiccas (Diod. xviii.22); that it was afterwards rebuilt, and on ac­count of the fertility of its neighbourhood becameone of the chief seats of the Isaurian pirates. (Amm.Marc. xiv. 2; comp. Steph. B. s. v.; Ptol. v. 6.§ I"; Hienx-L p. 675; Euscb. Hist. Eccl. vi. 19.)Siuias (<. r.) says that Laranda was the birthplaceU Xestor. an epic poet, and father of PLsander, ap*t of «till greater celebrity; but when he calls theformer Aaparofttt Ik Ai/»clat, he probably mistookLjcia for Lycaonia. Leake (d*. Min. p. 100) states that he found no Greek remains at Larandanor are there any coins belonging to the place. Theancient name, Larenda, is still in common useamong the Christians, and is even retained in thefirmans of the Porte; but its more general name,Karanum, is derived from a Turkish chief of thesame name; for it was at one time the capital of aTurkish kingdom, which lasted from the time of thepartition of the dominion of the Seljukian monarch*of Iconium until 1486, when it was conquered bythe emperor Bayazid II. At present the town isbut a poor place, with some manufactures of coarsecotton and woollen stuffs. Respecting a town inCappadocia, called by some Laranda, see the articleLeasdis. [L. S.] LARES (Sail. Jug. 90, where Laris is the ace.pi.: hipns, Ptol. iv. 3. § 28: the abl. form La-bibus is given, not only, as is so usual, in the Itin.Ant p. 26, and the Tab. Peut., but also by Au­gustine, adv. Donat. vi. 20; and that this ablativewas used for the nominative, as is common in theRomance languages, is shown by the Greek formAdptSos, Procop. B. V. ii. 23, whence came at oncethe modern name, Larbuss or Lorbus). An importantcity of Numidia, mentioned in tiie Jngurthine Waras the place chosen by Marius for his stores andmilitary chest. (Sail. Jug. I. e.) Under the Romansit became a colony, and belonged to the province ofAfrica and the district of Byzacena. Ptolemy placesit much too far west. It lay to the E. of theBagradas, on the road from Carthage to Theveste,63 M. P. from the latter. In the later period ofthe Empire it had decayed. (Pellissier, ExplorationScienttjlque de VAlgirie, vol. vi. p. 375.) [P. S.] LARGA, in Gallia, is placed by the Anton. Itin.between the two known positions of Epamanduodurum(Mandeure) and Mons Brisiacus (Vieux Brisach).The distance from Epamanduodurum to Larga is24 M. P. in the Itin., and in the Table 16 Gallicleagues, which is the same thing. Larga is Largitzen,on or near the Largues, in the French department ofHaut Ellin and in the neighbourhood of Altkirch.[Epamandl-odukum.] [G. L.] LA'RICA (Aap.mj, Ptol. vii. 1. §§ 4, 62), a richcommercial district on the extreme of India, describedby Ptolemy as being between Syrastrene and Ariaca,and having for its chief town Barygaza (Beroach),the emporium of all the surrounding country. Itmust, therefore, have comprehended considerablepart of Gizerat, and some of the main land of India,between the gulf of Barygaza and the Namadus orNerbudda. Ptolemy considered Larice to have beenpart of Indo-Scythia (vii. 1. § 62), the Scythiantribes having in his day reached the sea coast inthat part of India. [V.] LARI'NUM (AtSpow.Ptol.; Aipiva, Steph. B.:Eth. Aapivaios, Steph. B.; but Aapii'aTit, Pol.; Lari-nas, -Stis : Larino Vecchio), a considerable city inthe northern part of Apulia, situated about 14 milesfrom the sea, a little to the S. of the river Tifemus.There is much discrepancy among ancient authori­ties, as to whether Larinum with its territory, ex­tending from the river Frento to the l'ifernus,belonged properly to Apulia or to the land of theFrentani. Ptolemy distinctly assigns it to the latterpeople; and Pliny also, in one passage, speaks of the"Larinates cognomine Frentani :" but at the sametime he distinctly places Larinum in Apulia, andnot in the "regio Frentana," which, according tohim, begins only from the Tifernus. Mela takes thesame view, while Strabo, strangely enough, omits all