OCR Output 294 THE PJELOPONNESIAN WAR. fled amain towards the mountains. But the passes were allbeset; and more than this, the Amphilochians, who were wellacquainted with their own country, were pursuing in the lightenemies who were encumbered with the heavy armour. Quiteignorant of the country, nor knowing whither they were flying,they rushed headlong into hollow ways, into all the ambus­cades laid ready by the enemy, to their own destruction.Yet as no possible method of escape was unattempted, someof them turned towards the sea, which was not greatly dis­tant. And when they beheld the Athenian ships movingalong the shore, in so fatal a concurrence for their ruin, theyplunged into the water, and swam up to them, choosing ra­ther, in the present consternation, to be destroyed by theAthenians on board those ships, than by Barbarians and theirmost inveterate foes, the Amphilochians. Through such aseries of misfortunes, but few out of the numerous body ofAmbraciots were so happy as to escape to- their own home.The Acarnanians having stripped the dead, and erected thetrophies, marched back to Argos. On the following day they were addressed by a herald,sent from those Ambraciots who had escaped from Olpae,and were now in the Agrei's. His commission was to obtainthe bodies of the dead who had been killed since the firstengagement, as they were attempting without permission toescape along with the Mantineans and others who weregoing off by agreement. This herald casting his eyes uponthe arms of the Ambraciots from the city, was astonishedat the number. He knew nothing of that fresh calamity,but concluded they all belonged to the party for whom hewas now employed. Somebody asked him the reason of hissurprise, and what he judged to be the number of the dead !Now he who asked the question supposed the herald to havebeen sent by those of Idomene. " Not more than two hun-" dred," says the herald. The demandant then replied, " It" should seem otherwise by the arms, for these are the arms" of more than a thousand men." The herald rejoined,