OCR Output 266 LIVY. both from prosperity and adversity, that I wish to fol­low reason rather than fortune. But your early timeof life and uninterrupted flow of prosperity, both aptto inspire a degree of warmth ill suited to peacefulplans, excite in my mind very serious apprehensions.He whom fortune has never deceived, rarely considersthe uncertainty of future events. What I was at Thra-symenus and at Cannae, that you are at present. Ap­pointed to a command at an age scarcely fit for service,though your enterprises were of the boldest nature,you were ever successful. By avenging the death ofyour father and uncle, you acquired a distinguishedcharacter for uncommon bravery and filial duty. Yourecovered Spain, which had been lost, and drove out ofit four Carthaginian armies. On being elected consul,when others wanted spirit sufficient to defend Italy,you passed into Africa, and, by there destroying twoarmies, by taking and burning two camps in one hour,by making a captive of Syphax, a most powerful king,and by seizing on so many of his cities, and so manyof ours, you compelled me to relinquish the possessionof Italy, which I had continued to hold for sixteenyears. Perhaps your wishes tend rather to conquestthan to peace. I know the spirit of you Romans, thatit ever aims at grand rather than useful objects. For­tune once shone on me with the same benign counte­nance. But if, along with prosperity, the gods wouldgrant us a sound judgment, we should consider notonly what had already happened, but what may pos­sibly happen hereafter. Although you should forgetall other instances, I am a sufficient example of everykind of fortune. Me, whom you formerly saw pitchingmy camp between the Anio and your city, and on thepoint of scaling the walls of Rome, you now beholdhere, under the walls of my native city, which is threat­ened with a siege; deprived of my two brothers, gene­rals of consummate skill and valor ; deprecating, in be­half of my own city, those calamities by which formerlyI struck terror into yours. The most exalted state offortune is ever the least to be relied on. A peace con-