OCR Output 28 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. regard to virtue, to lay aside their hatred at such a time, evenwith respect to those they justly esteemed their enemies. - CPIAP. VII. Herod has thoughts of killing himself with his own hand ; and alittle afterwards he orders Antipater to be slain. § 1. A S he was giving these commands to his relations, there,**, came letters from his ambassadors, who had been sentto Rome unto Caesar, which, when they were read, their pur­port was this; That " Acme was slain by Caesar, out of his in-" dignation at what hand she had in Antipater's wicked prac-" tices; and that as to Antipater himself, Coesar left it to He-" rod to act as became a father and a king, and either to banish" him or take away his life, which he pleased." When He­rod heard this, he was somewhat better, out of the pleasure hehad from the contents of the letters, and was elevated at thedeath of Acme, and at the power that was given him over hisson ; but, as his pains were become very great, he was nowready to faint for want of somewhat to eat; so he called for anapple, and a knife ; for it was his custom formerly to pare theapple himself, and soon afterwards to cut it, and eat it. Whenhe had got the knife, he looked about, and had a mind to stabhimself with it; and he had done it, had not his first cousin,Achiabus, prevented him, and held his hand, and cried out loud­ly. 'Whereupon a woful lamentation echoed through the pa­lace, and a great tumult was made, as if the king were dead.Upon which Antipater, who verily believed his father was de­ceased, grew bold in his discourse, as hoping to be immediatelyand entirely released from his bonds, and to take the kingdominto his hands, without any more ado; so he discoursed withthe jailor about letting him go, and in that case promised himgreat things, both now and hereafter, as if that were the onlything now in question. But the jailor did not only refuse to dowhat Antipater would have him, but informed the king of hisintentions, and how many solicitations he had had from him [ofthat nature.]. Hereupon Herod, who had formerly no affectionnor good will towards his son to restrain him, when he heardwhat the jailor said, he cried out, and beat his head, althoughhe was at death's door, and raised himself upon his elbow, andsent for some of his guards, and commanded them to kill Anti­pater without any farther delay, and to do it presently, and tobury him in an ignoble manner at Hyrcania. CHAP.