OCR Output Chap. Vllf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 153' and they added, " Be thou merciful to us; for although we have" hitherto reverenced thee only as a man, yet shall we henceforth" own thee as superior to mortal nature." Upon this the kingdid neither rebuke them, nor reject their impious flattery. Buta:s he presently afterward looked up, he saw an owl * sitting ona certain rope over his head, and immediately understood that thisbird was the messenger of ill tidings, as it had once been the mes­senger of good tidings to him ; and fell into the deepest sorrow.A severe pain also arose in his belly, and began in a most vio­lent manner. He therefore looked upon his friends, and said,^ l:, whom you call a god, am commanded presently to depart" this life ; - while Providence thus reproves the lying words you" just now said to me ; and I, who was by you called immortal," am immediately to be hurried away by death. But I am" bound to accept of what Providence allots, as it pleases God ;" for we have by no means lived ill, but in a splendid and hap-" py manner." When he said this, his pain was become vio­lent. Accordingly he was carried into the palace ; and the ru­mour went abroad every where, that he Would certainly die ina little time. But the multitude presently sat in sackcloth, withtheir wives and children, after the law of their country, andbesought God for the king's recovery. All places were also fullof moUrning and lamentation. Now the king rested in a highVol. III. U chamber, * \Ve have a mighty cry made here by some critics, as if (he great Eusebiushad on purpose falsified this account of Josephus, so as to make it agree with theparallel accouiuin the Acts ot the Apostles; because the present copies of his ci­tation of it, Hist. Eccles. B. II. ch x. omit the words jSvCam—in ex°"' «»», i. e.an onvl—on a certain rope, which Josephus's present copies retain, and only havethe explicatory word iyiXor or angel; as if he meant that angel of the Lordwhich St Luke mentions as smiting Herod, Acts, xii. 23. and not that owl whichJosephus called an any.ei or messenger formerly of good, but now of bad neixs, toAgrippa. This accusation is a somewhat strange one in the case of the greatE.isebius, who is known to have so accurately and faithfully produced a vastri'imber of other ancient records, and particularly not a few out of our Josephusalso, without any suspicion of prevarication. Now, not to alledge how uncertain,we are, whether Jo&cphus's and Eusebius's copies of the fourth century were justlike the present in tins clause, which we have indistinct evidence of, the follow,ing words, prf served still in Eusebius, .will not admit of any such exposition." This [bird] (says Eusebius) Agrippa presently perceived to be the cause of ill" fortune, as it was once of good fortune to him;'' which can only belong to tnatbird, the anil, which, as it had formerly foreboded his happy deliverance fromimprisonment, Antiq. B. XV! 11. ch. vi. sect. 7. so was it then foretold to proveiUterward ihe unhappy tore runner of his death in five days time. If the im­proper words signifying cause, be changed for Josephus's proper word ayiXn, an-g'l or messenger, and the foregoing words, #y*(iva— irt e^amivmi be inser eJ,Euseoins's text will truly represent that in Josephus. Had tnis imperfection beenin some heathen author that wns in good esteem with our modern critics, theywould have readily correced these as barely errors in the copies; but being 111an ancient Christian writer, not so well relished by many of those critics, no.thing will serve but the ill-grounded supnosal of 'jtillfui corruption andprc-uatUa. tioti.