OCR Output OF THE ROM AM EMPIRE. 393 dignity. The former required indulgence and relaxation, the latter compelled him to direct, from the bed of sickness, the administration of a great empire. He resolved to pass the remainder of his days in honourable repose, to place his glory beyond the reach of fortune, and to relinquish the theatre of the world to his younger and more active associates The ceremony of his abdication was performed in a spacious plain, about three miles from Nicomedia. The emperor ascended a lofty throne, and in a speech, full of reason and dignity, declared his intention, both to the people and to the soldiers who were assembled on this extraordinary occasion. As soon as he had divested himself of 3°S* the purple, he withdrew from the gazing multitude; and traversing the city in a covered chariot, proceeded, without delay, to the favourite retirement which he had chosen in his native country of Dalmatia. On the fame day, which was the first of May "", Maximian, as it had been previously concerted, made his resignation of the imperial dignity at Milan. Even in the splendour of the Roman triumph, Compliance . .. r of Maximian. Diocletian had meditated his design of abdicating the government. As he wished to secure the obedience of Maximian, he exacted fromhim either a general assurance that he would submit his actions to theauthority of his benefactor, or a particular promise that he woulddescend from the throne, whenever he should receive the adviceand the example. This engagement, though it was confirmedby the solemnity of an oath before- the altar of the CapitolineJupiter "°, would have proved a feeble restraint on the fierce tem­per of Maximian, whose passion was the love of power, and whoneither desired present tranquillity nor future reputation. Butunable in one moment to surmount the habits of twenty years,he submitted, however reluctantly, to the ascendant which hiswiser colleague had acquired over him, and retired, immediatelyafter his abdication, to a villa in Lucania, where it was almost im-Vol. I. E e e possible