OCR Output Clmp. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 157 to hear that offer; and because it augmented his revenues, hesaid he would confirm the sale of the taxes to him. But thenhe asked him this question, Whether he had any sureties thatwould be bound for the payment of the money? he answeredvery pleasantly, I will give such security, and those of personsgood and responsible, and which you shall have no reason to dis­trust. And when he bid him name them, who they were, hereplied, I give thee no other persons, O king, for my sureties,than myself and this thy wife; and you shall be security forboth parties. So Ptolemy laughed at the proposal, and grantedhim the farming of the taxes without any sureties. This pro­cedure was a sore grief to those that came from the cities intoEgypt, who were utterly disappointed; and they returned everyone to their own country with shame. 5. But Joseph took with him two thousand foot soldiers fromthe king, for he desired he might have some assistance, in orderto force such as were refractory in the cities to pay. And bor­rowing of the king's friends at Alexandria five hundred talents,he made haste back into Syria. And when he was at Askelon,and demanded the taxes of the people of Askelon, they refusedto pay any thing; and affronted him also: upon which he seizedupon about twenty of the principal men, and slew them, and ga­thered what they had together, and sent it all to the king: andinformed him what he had done. Ptolemy admired the pru­dent conduct of the man, and commended him for what he haddone; and gave him leave to do as he pleased. When the Sy­rians heard of this, they were astonished: and having beforethem a sad example in the men of Askelon that were slain, theyopened their gates, and willingly admitted Joseph, and paid theirtaxes. And when the inhabitants of Scythopolis attempted toaffront him, and would not pay him those taxes which they for­merly used to pay, without disputing about them, he slew alsothe principal men of that city, and sent their effects to the king.By this means he gathered great wealth together, and made vastgains by this farming of the taxes: and he made use of whatestate he had thus gotten, in order to support his authority, asthinking it a piece of prudence to keep what had been the oc­casion and foundation of his present good fortune; and this hedid by the assistance of what he was already possessed of, for heprivately sent many presents to the king, and to Cleopatra, andto their friends, and to all that were powerful about the court,and thereby purchased their good-will to himself. 6. This good fortune he enjoyed for twenty-two years: andwas become the father of seven sons, by one wife: he had alsoanother son, whose name was Hyrcanus, by his brother Soly-mius' daughter, whom he married on the following occasion.