OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 333 of the Athenians. They were apprehensive the enemy wouldendeavour to force their way to the village of Solygia. Fora considerable space the battle was obstinate, neither sidegiving way ; but at length, through the advantage on theAthenian side of being assisted by a party of horse, whereastheir opposites had none, the Corinthians were broke anddriven up the ascent, where grounding their arms, they camedown no more to the charge, but remained in a quiet posture.In this route of the right wing, numbers of the Corinthiansperished, and Lycophron their general. But the rest of thebody had the good fortune to make a safe retreat, and so tosecure themselves upon the eminence, as they could not bebriskly pursued, and were not compelled to move off with pre­cipitation. When the Athenians perceived that the enemywould no more return to the pharge, they rifled the bodiesof the foes whom they had slain, and carried off their owndead, and then without loss of time erected their trophy. That division of the Corinthians which had been postedat Cenchrea to prevent any attempt upon Crommyon, hadthe view of the battle intercepted from them by the moun­tain Oneius. But when they saw the cloud of dust, andthence knew what was doing, they marched full speed to­wards the spot. The aged inhabitants also, when they areinformed of the battle, rushed out of Corinth to succourtheir own people. The Athenians perceiving the approachof such numerous bodies, and judging them to be succourssent up by the neighbouring Peloponnesians, threw them­selves immediately on board their ships, with what spoil theyhad taken, and the bodies of their own dead excepting two,which not finding in this hurry they left behind. They wereno sooner re-embarked than they crossed over to the adjacentislands, from whence they dispatched a herald to demandleave, which was granted, to fetch off the dead bodies theyhad left behind*. • This incident is related by Plutarch (in Me Life jfNicias) as a proof ofthe great piety and humanity of Nicias. His asking leave to fetch off these Vol. I. 3 K