OCR Output an. 226.] 433 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When the day came on which the king wasto let the taxes of the cities to farm; and thosethat were the principal men of dignity intheir several countries were to bid for them;the sum of the taxes together, of Coelesyriaand Phoenicia, and Judea, with Samaria, asthey were bidden for, came to eight thousandtalents. Hereupon Joseph accused the bid­ders, as having agreed together to estimatethe value of the taxes at too low a rate; andhe promised that he would himself give twiceas much for them; but for those who did notpay, he would send the king home their wholesubstance: for this privilege was sold togetherwith the taxes themselves. The king waspleased to hear that offer; and because itaugmented his revenues, he said he wouldconfirm the sale of the taxes to him. Butthen he asked whether he had any suretiesthat would be bound for the payment of themoney? He answered very pleasantly, "Iwill give securities, and those of personsgood and responsible; and which you shallhave no reason to distrust." And when hebade him name them, who they were, he re­plied, " I give thee no other persons, O king,for my sureties than thyself, and this thywife; and you shall be security for both par­ties." So Ptolemy laughed at the proposal,and granted him the farming of the taxeswithout any sureties. This procedure was asore grief to those that came from the citiesinto Egypt; who were utterly disappointed,and they returned every one to their owncountry with shame. But Joseph took with him two thousandfoot soldiers from the king. For he desiredhe might have some assistance, in order toforce such as were refractory in the cities topay. And borrowing of the king's friends atAlexandria five hundred talents, he hastenedinto Syria. When he was at Ascalon, anddemanded the taxes of the people, they re­fused to pay any thing, and affronted him also:but he seized upon about twenty of the prin­cipal men, and slew them, and gathered whatthey had together, and sent it all to the king;and informed him what he had done. Ptolemyadmired at the prudent conduct of the man,and commended him for what he had done;and gave him leave to do as he pleased.When the Syrians heard of this they wereastonished; and having before them a sad example in the men of Ascalon, that wereslain, they opened their gates, and willinglyadmitted Joseph, and paid their taxes. Andwhen the inhabitants of Scythopolis attemptedto affront him, and would not pay him thosetaxes which they formerly used to pay, with­out disputing about them; he slew also theprincipal men of that city, and sent theireffects to the king. By this means he gatheredgreat wealth together; and made vast gainsby this farming of the taxes; and he madeuse of what estate he had thus gotten, inorder to support his authority; as thinking ita piece of prudence to keep what had beenthe occasion and foundation of his presentgood fortune; and this he did by the assist­ance of what he was already possessed of.For he privately sent many presents to theking, and to Cleopatra, and to their friends,and to all that were powerful about thecourt; and thereby purchased their good willto himself. This good fortune he enjoyed for twenty-two years; and was become the father otseven sons, by one wife; as he had one otherson, whose name was Hyrcanus, by his bro­ther Solymius's daughter, whom he marriedon the following occasion. He once came toAlexandria with his brother; who had alongwith him a daughter already marriageable;in order to give her in wedlock to some of theJews of chief dignity there. He then suppedwith the king; and falling in love with anactress, that was of great beauty, and cameinto the room where they feasted, he told hisbrother of it, and intreated him, (because aJew is forbidden by their law to come near aforeigner,) to conceal his offence, and to bekind and subservient to him, and to give himthe opportunity of fulfilling his desires. Uponwhich his brother willingly entertained theproposal of serving him; and adorned hisown daughter, and brought her to him bynight, and put her into his bed. And Josephbeing disordered with drink, knew not whoshe was; and so lay with his brother'sdaughter; and this he did many times; andloved her exceedingly; and said to his bro­ther, that he loved this actress so well, thathe should run the hazard of his life if he mustpart with her; and yet probably the kingwould not give him leave to take her withhim. But his brother bade him be in no con