OCR Output 310 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. brought it to him every day. But when thatriver was dried up, for want of rain, he cameto Zarepbath, a city between Sidon andTyre; and this at the command of God. ForGod told him that he should there find awoman who was a widow, that should givehim sustenance. So when he was not far offthe city, he saw a woman gathering of sticks.So God informed him that this was the personwho was to give him sustenance; so he cameand saluted her, and desired her to bring himsome water to drink. But as she was goingso to do, he called to her, and asked her tobring him a loaf of bread also. She affirmedupon oath, that she had at home nothing morethan one handful of meal, and a little oil;and that she was going to gather some sticksthat she might knead it, and make bread forherself and her son; after which she said,they must perish by the famine, for they hadnothing for themselves any longer. Here­upon, ne said, "Go on with good courage,and hope for better things: but first of allmake me a little cake and bring it to me;for I foretell to thee, that this vessel of meal,and this cruse of oil, shall not fail, until Godsend rain." When the prophet had said this,she came to him, and made the cakes; ofwhich she had part for herself, and gave therest to her son, and to the prophet also. Nordid any thing of this fail, until the droughtceased.* Now Menander mentions thisdrought, in his account of the acts of Eth-baal, king of the Tyrians: where he says,"Under him there was a want of rain fromthe month Hype rbe re toe us, till the monthHyperberetoeue of the year following. But when he made supplications, there camegreat thunders. This Ethbaal built the cilyBotrys in Phoenicia, and the city Auza inLybia." By these words he designed thiswant of rain that was in the days of Ahab;for at that time it was that Ethbaal alsoreigned over the Tyrians, as Menanderwrote. Now the son of this woman, who sustainedthe prophet, fell into a distemper, till hegave up the ghost, and appeared to be dead.fThe mother, therefore came to the prophet,weeping and beating her breast, and utteringsuch expressions as her passions dictated toher, and complained to him, that he hadcome to reproach her for her sins, and thaton this account it was that her son was dead.But he bade her be of good cheer, and de­liver her son to him; for that he would re­store him again to her alive. So when shehad delivered her son up to him, he carriedhim into an upper room, where he himselflodged, and laid him down upon the bed;and cried unto God, and said that God hadnot done so well in rewarding the womanwho had sustained him, by taking away herson; and he prayed that he would send againthe soul of the child into him, and bring himto life again. Accordingly God took pity onthe mother, and was willing to gratify theprophet; that he might not seem to havecome to her to do her a mischief; and thechild, beyond all expectation, came to lifeagain. So the mother returned the prophetthanks, and said, she was then clearly satis­fied that God did converse with him.J IJAfter a little§ while Elijah came to king * The woman had sufficient reason to believe thatElijah was a prophet, or person sent from God, when shesaw the miraculous increase of the meal and oil; but uponhis not curing her son when he lay sick, but rather suf­fering him to die, her faith began to droop; whereas, uponseeing him revive, her faith revived with him; andthrough the joy of having him restored to her again, sheaccounted this latter miracle much greater than the former.Le Gere's Commentary. B. t Some of the Hebrew doctors (and herein they arefollowed by some Christians) are of opinion, that thiswidow's son was the prophet Jonas; that after his resto­ration, his mother gave him to Elijah; that after he at­tended on the prophet, as long as he lived; and on a cer­tain occasion was despatched by him to Nineveh, as everyone knows. Bat besides that these traditions are desti­tute of any real proof, Jonah was a Hebrew, as he him­self de.;hres, chap. i. 9. and a native of Gath-hepher, aswe read, 2 Kings xiv. 25. whereat the widow's son was a native of Zarephtha, a town belonging to the kingdom ofSidon, and by birth a stranger to the race of Israel. Cal­mef s Commentary. B. t See 1 Kings xvii. 17—24. II Josephus, in his present copies, says, that a littlewhile after the recovery of the widow's son at Sarepta,God sent rain upon the earth; whereas, in our othercopies, it is after many days, 1 Kings xviii. 1. Severalyears are also intimated there, as belonging to this droughtand famine. Nay we have the express mention of the thirdyear; which I suppose was reckoned from the recoveryof the widow's son, and the ceasing of this drought inPhoenicia, which, as Menander informs us here, laste ' onewhole year. And both our Saviour and St. James affirm,that this drought lasted in all three years and six months,as their copies of the Old Testament then informed them.Luke iv. 25. James v. 17. I suspect, therefore, that Jo-sephus's original reading was, No small time afterward. § About an. 907.