OCR Output TIIRACIA. I ISO TIIRACIA. [ its people into Macedonia: they then sometimesude retaliatory expeditions into Thrace; but seemrumily to hare made their way back as soon as.p immediate object was accomphshed. The rela­te, existing between the Romans and the Tliracians,* more than a century after the conquest of Ma-iduiia, thus burs a close resemblance to that whichat long existed between onr own countrymen andLeCafrres. I>uring the years B.C. 110, 109, the Consul M.1 nufios Rufue was engaged in hostilities with the. :imi and Triballi; and, according to Florus(J.c),> J waste the whole valley of the Ilebrus (cf. Kutr..27). In B. c. 104, Calpurnius Piso penetrated•lo the district of Khodope (Flor. /. <•.). In n. v.1. the Maedi defeated the praetor, C. Sentina, and!rn ravaged Macedonia (Cic. Pit. 34 ; Li v. Epit."I After the breaking out of the Mithridaticisr (B.C. 88), mention is made in several successive*sn of the incursions of the Thracians into the>:isn provinces, and it is probable that they werering in concert with Mithridates, whose generalViilea, in b. c. 86, led a vast army through Thrace,-ii Macedonia to the assistance of Archelaus. (Liv./ it.74,76,81,82). On the final defeat of Archelaus,i.li directed his inarch towards Asia through, Thracei c 84, and, either to punish the people for their'rwtion with Mithridates. or because they opposedj ;*uage. made war upon them with complete snc-m (Id. 83). C. Scribonina Curio defeated the•ardtiii, and penetrated to the Danube, being the-it Roman who had ventured into that |*rt of•arope (b.c. 75; Liv. Epit. 92; Eutr. vi 2).ario waft sncceeded as governor of Macedonia by M.anillaa (b.c 73), who defeated the Bessi in a: uri bs'.tle on Mount Haemus, took their capital,i ravaged the wliole country between the HueinusM the Danube (Liv. Epit. 97; Eutr. vi. 10).be Bessi were again conquered in B. c. 60 by Octa-iu, the father of Augustus (Suet. Aug. 3 ; cf. lb.4 . Freiiuh. Swppl. exxxv. 2). In the years B. c\ Pieo, so well known to us from Cicero's cele-rs!ej speech against him, was governor of Mace-ueu ; and, if we may believe Cicero, acted in the■: cruel and faithless manner towards the Bessi•I other peaceable Thracian tribes. (/'i». 34, deHe. Cunt. 2, se<].). From the latter passage itI'fnn that although Thrace was not under the-nrrwnt of Rome, yet the Romans claimed the. •.: irf way through it to the Hellespont; for Cicerod!s the Egnatian Way " via ilia nostra militaris."In the civil war between CaCNir and Pompey,i'fal Thracian princes furnished the latter with-unary farces. Why they interfered in thevm, and why they preferred Ponipey to Caesar,v matters of conjecture only. Pompey had been■tii engaged all his life in the East, Caesar in the**t ; and that is probably sufficient to account for■ .rater influence of Pompey in Thrace. (Caes.I C. iu. 4 i Flor. iv. 2 ; Diuu Cass. xli. SI, 63,I'i 25). At the time of Caesar's death two brothers, Rhas-'prit and Kascoa [Met. Biog. Vol. HI. p. 647]>*d over the greater part of Thrace; and whenif war broke out between the triumvirs and the re.■bliean party, Rhaacnporis aided with the Litter,bik Kaactu aided the former. By this plan they :"i to be safe, whichever party might be victorious;«1 it is said that their expectations were realised. n ben the power of Rome was at length wieldedi Au^utut without a rival, the relation of Thrace to the Roman state seems to have become in manyrespects like that which the native princes of Indialong bore to the British. The Thracian kings weregenerally allowed to exercise, without restraint, theirauthority over their own subjects, and when needfulit was supported by the arms of Rome. But all dis­putes among the native rulers were referred to thedecision of the emperors, who disposed of the conn-try as its acknowledged lords. These subject princeswere expected to defend Thrace from external andinternal foes ; to assist the Romans in the field ; toallow them to enlist troops, and in other ways toexercise the rights of sovereignty. For illustrations ofthese statements we must refer the reader to Tacitus,especially to the following passages: Ann. ii. 64—67, iii. 38, 39, iv. 5, 46—51. The few Thraciancoins which are extant afford a proof of the de­pendent character of the Thracian kings ; they bearon the obverse the effigy of the reigning emperor, onthe reverse that of the native prince. [See DietBing. Vol. III. p. 653.] The interference of the Romans in the governmentof Thrace was not submitted to by the nation atlarge without several severe struggles. The mostformidable of these occurred about B. c. 14, thefullest account of which is given by Dion Cassius(lib. liv.). The leader in this insurrection was Vo-logaesus, a Bessian priest of Bacchus, who availedhimself of his sacerdotal character to inflame thereligious feelings of his countrymen. Having thusassembled a large army, he attacked, defeated, andslew Rhascuporis, a king under Roman protection;his uncle, Rhoemetalces, was next assailed and com­pelled to flee : the insurgents pursued him as far awthe Chersonesus, where they devastated the countryand captured the fortified places. On receiving in­formation of these proceedings, Augustus orderedL. Pino, the governor of Pamphylia, to transport Idaarmy into Thrace, where, after a three years' warand several reverses, he at length sncceeded in sub­duing the Bessi, who had adopted Roman arms anddiscipline. They soon afterwards made a secondattempt to regain their independence ; but were noweasily crushed. (Veil. Pat. ii. 98; Tac. Ann. vi. 10;Sen. Ep. 83; Flor. iv. 12 ; Liv. Epit. 137.) After this war, the Romans gradually absorbedall the powers of government in the country. Ger-manicus visited it in A. D. 18. and introduced re­forms in its administration (Tac. Ann. ii. 54) Asystem of conscription seems to have been imposedupon the Thracians about A. D. 26 (74. iv. 46).The last native prince of whom we find any mentionis Rhoemetalces II., who, in A. I>. 38, was made byCaligula ruler over the whole country; and at length,in tie reign of Vespasian (A. i>. 69—79), Thracewas reduced into the form of a province. (Suet.Vttp. 8; Eutr. vii. 19; cf. Tac. llitt. L 11.) Thedate of this event has been disputed on the authorityof the Eusebian Chronicle, which states that it tookplace in A. u. 47, in the reign of Claudius; but thestatement of Suetonius is express on the point. Itis possible that Rhoemetulces II. may have died aboutthe year last mentioned ; and if Claudius refused toappoint a successor to him, this would be regardedas equivalent to incorporating the country in theRoman empire, although its formal constitution as aprovince was delayed ; as we know was commonlythe case. It is remarkable that Moesia was made aprovince upwards of 50 years before Thrace Proper,its first propraetor being mentioned in A. D. 15.(Tac Ann. L 79; cf. lb. IL 66; Plin. iii. 26. a. 29.)