OCR Output an. 1769.] 47 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the night-time to the pit, resolved to saveJoseph without the privity of his brethren;and when, upon his calling to him, he madeno answer, he was afraid that they had de­stroyed him after he was gone; he accord­ingly complained to his brethren, but waspacified when they had told him what theyhad done. When Joseph's brethren had done thus tohim, they considered how they should escapeihe suspicions of their father. Now theyhad taken away from Joseph the coat which.he had on when he came to them, at the timethey let him down into the pit; so theythought proper to tear that coat to pieces,and to dip it into goat's blood, and then tocarry it, and shew it to their father, that hemight believe he was destroyed by wildbeasts; and when they had so done, theycame to the old man, but this not till whathad happened to his son had already cometo his knowledge. Then they said that theyhad not seen Joseph, nor knew what mishaphad befallen him, but that they had found hiscoat bloody, and torn to pieces, whence theyhad a suspicion that he had fallen amongwild beasts, and so perished, if that were thecoat he had on when he came from home.Jacob had before some better hopes that hisson was only made a captive, but now helaid aside that notion, and considered thiscoat as a sufficient proof of his death, for hewell remembered that this was the coat hehad on when he sent him to his brethren.He therefore lamented the lad as now dead,. and as if he had been the father of no morethan one, without taking any comfort in therest; and so he was also affected with hismisfortune before he met with Joseph'sbrethren, when he also conjectured thatJoseph was destroyed by wild beasts. Hesat down also clothed in sackcloth,* and inheavy affliction, insomuch that he found noease when his sons comforted him,f neitherwas his sorrow assuaged by length of time. CHAP. IV. or Joseph's signal continent. NOW Potiphar, an Egyptian, who waschief cook to king I'haraoh, boughtJoseph of the merchants.J He had him inthe greatest honour, taught him the learningthat became a free man, and gave him leaveto make use of a diet better than was allottedto slaves; he also entrusted the care of hishouse to him. Joseph, however, did not for­get that virtue which he had before, uponsuch a change of his condition; but he de­monstrated that wisdom was able to governthe uneasy passions of life, in such as have itin reality, and do not only put it on for a shew,under a present state of prosperity. His master's wife soon fell in love with himboth on account of his beauty of body, andhis skilful management of affairs; and sup­posed that if she should make it known tohim, she should easily persuade him to cometo her bed: and that he would consider it asa piece of happy fortune that his mistressshould intreat him; as regarding that stateof slavery he was in, and not his moral cha­racter, which continued after his conditionwas changed. So she made known her illicitinclinations: however he rejected her in-treaties, not thinking it agreeable to religionto yield so far to her, as to do what wouldtend to the injury of one who had purchasedhim, and vouchsafed him so great honours.He therefore exhorted her to govern thatpassion, and laid before her the impossibilityof obtaining her desires, which he thoughtmight be conquered, if she had no hope ofsucceeding, and he said that, as to himself,he would endure any thing whatever beforebe. would be persuaded to it: for although itwas the duty of a slave, as he was, to donothing contrary to his mistress, he mightwell be excused in a case where the contra­diction was to such sort of commands: but * Jacob is represented by Moses not only as beingclothed in sackcloth, but as rending his clothes on thisoccasion. Rending the clothes was an eastern way of ex­pressing either grief for calamity, or horror for sin. Reubenwas the first we read of, who, to denote his exceeding sor­row, rent his clothes; and as Jacob we find does thelike, we may well suppose that it was an usual mannerof expressing all grief and uneasiness of mind in thosedays; and, by putting on sackcloth, (which Jacob is voL. I. No. 4. here the first precedent of doing, but was afterwardscommonly used upon all mournful occasions,) he seemedto signify, that since he had lost his beloved son, helooked upon himself as reduced to the meanest andlowest condition of life. Bibliotheca Bibl. and HaweWsHistory. B. t Gen. xxxvii. 35. t Gen. xxxix. 1.