OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 235 to neglect, the orders of an irritated master. The chap.archbishop prudently retired to the monasteries of XVIILthe Desert: eluded, with his usual dexterity, thesnares of the enemy; and lived to triumph over theashes of a prince, who, in words of formidable im­port, had declared his wish that the whole venom ofthe Galilaean school were contained in the singleperson of Athanasius *. I have endeavoured faithfully to represent theartful system by which Julian proposed to obtain theeffects, without incurring the guilt, or reproach, ofpersecution. His Christian subjects were assured ofthe hostile designs of their sovereign; and, to theirjealous apprehension, every circumstance of his go­vernment might afford some grounds of discontentand suspicion. In the ordinary administration ofthe laws, the Christians, who formed so large a partof the people, must frequently be condemned: buttheir indulgent brethren, without examiningthe meritsof the cause, presumed their innocence, allowed theirclaims, and imputed the severity of their judge tothe partial malice of religious persecution. Thesepresent hardships, intolerable as they might appear,were represented as a slight prelude of the impendingcalamities. The Christians considered Julian as acruel and crafty tyrant; who suspended the execu­tion of his .revenge, till he should return victoriousfrom the Persian war. They expected, that as soonas he had triumphed over the foreign enemies ofRome, he would lay aside the irksome mask of dis­simulation; that the amphitheatres would streamwith the blood of hermits and bishops; and that theChristians, who still persevered in the profession of • The three Epistles of Julian, which explain his intentions and conduct withregard to Athanasius, should be disposed in the following chronological order,xxvi. x. vi. See likewise Greg. Nazianzen, xxL p. 393. Sozomen, 1. v. c 15.Socrates, 1. hi. c. 14. Theodoret, 1. iii. c 9. and Tillemont, Mem. Eccles. torn.viii. p. 361—368, who has used some materials prepared by the Boliandists.