OCR Output 260 TEERIBLE FAMINE. [B. VI. every one of them that perished were worthy of a memorial,this man appeared to deserve it beyond all the rest. Nowthe Jews admired this man for his courage, and were fartherdesirous of having him slain; so they persuaded him to comedown to them upon security given him for his life. But Cor­nelius his brother persuaded him on the contrary not to tar­nish their own glory, nor that of the Roman army. Hecomplied with this last advice, and lifting up his sword beforeboth armies, he slew himself. Yet was there one Artoriusamong those surrounded with the fire who escaped by hissubtilty; for when he had with a loud voice called to himLucius, one of his fellow-soldiers that lay with him in thesame tent, and said to him, — "I do leave thee heir of all Ihave, if thou wilt come and receive me." Upon this he camerunning to receive him readily : Artorius then threw himselfdown upon him, and saved his own life, while he that receivedhim was dashed so vehemently against the stone pavement bythe other's weight, that he died immediately. This melan­choly accident made the Romans sad for a while, but still itmade them more upon their guard for the future, and was ofadvantage to them against the delusions of the Jews, by whichthey were greatly damaged, through their unacquaintednesswith the places and with the nature of the inhabitants. Nowthis cloister was burnt down as far as John's tower, which hebuilt in the war he made against Simon, over the gates thatled to the Xystus. The Jews also cut off the rest of thatcloister from the temple, after they had destroyed those thatgot up to it. But the next day the Romans burnt down thenorthern cloister entirely as far as the east cloister, whosecommon angle joined to the valley that was called Cedron,and was built over it; on which account the depth was fright­ful. And this was the state of the temple at that time. 3. Now of those that perished by famine in the city thenumber was prodigious, and the miseries they underwent werounspeakable; for if so much as the shadow of any kind offood did any where appear, a war was commenced presently,and the dearest friends fell a fighting one with another aboutit, snatching from each other the most miserable supports of