OCR Output 342 Book I. wars of the jewS. to Jerusalem, and appointed a very great mourning to the wholenation for him, and bestowed a most pompous funeral upon him.And this was the end that one of Alexander's and Aristobulus'smurderers came to. CHAP. XXX.. When Herod made enquiry about Pheroras* s death, a discovery^was made that Antipater had prepared a poisonous draughtfor him. Herod casts Doris and her accomplices, as ahaMariamne, out of the palace, and blots her son Herod out ofhis testament. f l. T) UT now the punishment was transferred unto the ori--D ginal author, Antipater, and took its rise from thedeath of Pheroras: for certain of his freed-men came with a sadcountenance to the king, and told him, That " his brother had" been destroyed by poison, and that his wife had brought him" somewhat that was prepared after an unusual manner, and" that upon his eating it, he presently fell into bis distemper;" that Antipater's mother and sister, two days before, brought a" woman out of Arabia that was skilful in mixing such drugs," that she might prepare a love potion for Pheroras; and that" instead of a love potion, she had given him deadly poison ;*' and that this was done by the management of Sylleus, who*' was acquainted with that woman." 2. The king was deeply affected with somany suspicious, andhad the maid servants and some of the free women also tortured;one of which cried out iu her agonies, " May that God that go-*' verns the earth and the heaven, punish this author of all these" our miseries, Antipater's mother I" The king took a handlefrom this confession, and proceeded to inquire farther into thetruth of the matter. So this woman discovered the friendshipof Antipater's mother to Pheroras and Antipater's women, asalso their secret meetings, and that Pheroras and Antipater haddrunk with them fox a whole night together as they returnedfrom the king, and would not suffer any body, either man-ser­vant or maid-servant, to be there; while one of the free womendiscovered the matter. 3. Upon this Herod tortured the maid-servants every one bythemselves separately, who all unanimously agreed in the fore­going discoveries, and that accordingly by agreement they wentaway, Antipater to Rome, and Pheroras ta Perea: for thatthey oftentimes talked to one another thus, " That after Herod" had slain Alexander and Aristobulus, he would fall upon- them," and upon their wives, because, after he, had not spared Ma- " riarnne