OCR Output 366 LIVY. mor. The king at first fled with precipitation, andwithout looking behind him; but afterwards, when hehad proceeded as far as five miles, he began, from re­collecting the unevenness of the road, to suspect (whatwas really the case) that the enemy could not fol­low him; and halting, he despatched his attendantsthrough all the hills and valleys to collect the strag­glers together. His loss was not more than two thou­sand men. The rest of his army coming to one spot,as if they had followed some signal, marched off in acompact body towards Thessaly. The Romans, afterhaving pursued the enemy as far as they could withsafety, killing such as they overtook, and despoilingthe slain, seized and plundered the king's camp; towhich, even when there were no troops to opposethem, they could not easily make their way. Thefollowing night they were lodged within their owntrenches. 13. Next day the consul pursued the enemy throughthe same defiles, following the course of the river as itwinds through the valleys. The king came first to thecamp of Pyrrhus, a place so called in Triphylia, a dis­trict of Melotis; and on the following day, by a verylong march, his fears urging him on, he reachedMount Lingos. This ridge of mountains belongs toEpirus, and stretches along between Macedonia andThessaly; the side next to Thessaly faces the east,that next to Macedonia the north. These hills arethickly clad with woods, and on their summits haveopen plains and springs of water. Here Philip re­mained encamped for several days, being unable to de­termine whether he should continue his retreat untilhe arrived in his own dominions, or whether he mightventure back into Thessaly. At length, he resolved todirect his route into Thessaly; and, going by theshortest roads to Tricca, he made hasty excursionsfrom thence to all the cities within his reach. The in­habitants who were able to accompany him he carriedaway, from their habitations, and burned the towns,allowing the owners to take with them such of their