OCR Output CHAP. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 123 whose backs they had seen more than once; and beingdetermined, by some great and noble adventure, to berevenged for this disgrace, had at first resolved to pe­netrate into the enemy's camp, without communicatinghis design to any body; but then, upon reflection, hewas afraid, tliat should he go without the knowledge, orconsent of the consuls, he might be seized by the Romanguards, and brought back as a deserter, especially at atime when the condition of the city would justify theaccusation. He therefore goes to the senate, a.nd tellsthem; " I intend, fathers, to cross the Tiber, and, if pos-"sibie, enter the enemy's camp, not with a view of mak-"ing reprisals, or taking revenge for their depredations"on us. No: My design, with the assistance of the"gods, is more noble and glorious." He obtained the approbation of the fathers. Where­fore, concealing a poniard below his clothes, he sets outupon his adventure. After he had got into the enemy'scamp, he planted himself among the thickest of thecrowd, near the kino's tribunal. It so happened, that the soldiers were then receivingtheir pay; and the king's secretary sitting by him, anddressed almost in the same-uniform, was much employedin dispatching business,, and receiving petitions. Afraidto ask, which of the two was Porsenna, lest his igno­rance in that particular should betray him; as fortuneblindly directed the thrust, he stabbed the secretary, in­stead of the king. Endeavouring to make his escape y.from thence, he opened a passage for himself, with his '*••bloody dagger, through the trembling crowd; when thecry was given, the king's guards gathered about him,and seizing him, brought him back to the royal presence;there too, threatened with fortune on every band, witha look that struck more terror, than it expressed fear, headdressed the king as follows; " I am a citizen of Rome;.my name is Cains Mucius. As an enemy, I wouldhave killed my enemy: nor am I less determined toreceive, than I was to give the fatal blow. A Romanhas not only spirit to act, but to suffer. Believe me,I am not the only person you have to fear; there is along list after me, candidates for the same honour.i' Wherefore, prepare for their attempt?, if you please;