OCR Output CHAP. L. 319 and the caliph alleged the injunction of his dying mas­ter, that one and the true religion should be professed inhis native land of Arabia/ Submission ^'ve ^mes eacn day tne e7es o^ Mahometof Mecca, were turned towards Mecca,2 and he was urged'by the most sacred and powerful motives, to re­visit, as a conqueror, the city and temple from whencehe had been driven as an exile. The Caaba was presentto his waking and sleeping fancy: an idle dream wastranslated into vision and prophecy; he unfurled theholy banner; and a rash promise of success too hastilydropped from the lips of the apostle. His march fromMedina to Mecca displayed the peaceful and solemnpomp of a pilgrimage; seventy camels, chosen and be­decked for sacrifice, preceded the van; the sacred ter­ritory was respected, and the captives were dismissedwithout ransom to proclaim his clemency and devotion.But no sooner did Mahomet descend into the plain,within a day's journey of the city, than he exclaimed,they have clothed themselves with the skins of tigers; thenumbers and resolution of the Koreish opposed his pro­gress; and the roving Arabs of the desert might desertor betray a leader whom they had followed for the hopesof spoil. The intrepid fanatic sunk into a cool and cau­tious politician: he waved in the treaty his title ofapostle of God, concluded with the Koreish and theirallies a truce of ten years, engaged to restore the fugitivesof Mecca who should embrace his religion, and stipu­lated only, for the ensuing year, the humble privilege ofentering the city as a friend, and of remaining threedays to accomplish the rites of the pilgrimage. A cloudof shame and sorrow hung on the retreat of the Mus- > The banishment of the Jews is attested by Klmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 9.) andthe great Al Zabari. (Gagnier, torn. 2. p. 285.) Yet Niebohr (Description de1'Arabic, p. 324.) believes that the Jewish religion, and Kareite sect, are still pro­fessed by the tribe of Chaibar; and that in the plunder of the caravans, the disci­ples of Moses are the confederates of those of Mahomet. * The successive steps of the reduction of Mecca are related by Abulfeda, (p.84—87. 97—100. 104—111.) and Gagnier, (torn. 2. p. 209—245, 309—382. torn. 3.p. 1—58.) Klmacin, (Hilt. Saracen, p. 8—10.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 103.)