OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMP1RE< 265 the unsuccessful general. Eudocia still attended his motions; at midnight, theirtent was suddenly attacked by her angry brothers, impatient to expiate her infamyin his blood: his daring spirit refused her advice, and the disguise of a female habit;and, boldly starting from his couch, he drew his sword, and cut his way throughthe numerous assassins. It was here that he first betrayed his ingratitude andtreachery: he engaged in a treasonable correspondence with the king of Hungaryand the German emperor; approached the royal tent at a suspicious hour, with adrawn sword: and, under the mask of a Latin soldier, avowed an intention of re­venge against a mortal foe; and imprudently praised the fleetness of his horse asan instrument of flight and safety. The monarch dissembled his suspicions; but,after the close of the campaign, Andronicus was arrested and strictly confined in atower of the palace of Constantinople. ' In this prison he was left above twelve years; a most painful restraint, fromwhich the thirst of action and pleasure perpetually urged him to escape. Ajoneand pensive, he perceived some broken bricks in a corner of his chamber, and liegradually widened the passage, till he had explored a dark and forgotten recess.Into this hole he conveyed himself, and the remains of his provisions, replacingthe bricks in their former positions, and erasing with care the footsteps of his re­treat. At the hour of the customary visit, his guards were amazed with the silenceand solitude of the prison, and reported, with shame and fear, his incomprehensi­ble flight. The gates of the palace and city were instantly shut: the strictest or­ders were despatched into the provinces for the recovery of their fugitive; and hiswife, on the suspicion of a pious act, was basely imprisoned in the same tower.At the dead of night she beheld a spectre: she recognised her husband; theyshared their provisions; and a son was the fruit of these stolen interviews; whichalleviated the tediousness of their confinement. In the custody of a woman, thevigilance of the keepers was insensibly relaxed; and the captive had accomplishedhis real escape, when he was discovered, brought back to Constantinople, andloaded with a double chain. At length he found the moment and the means of hisdeliverance. A boy, his domestic servant, intoxicated the guards, and obtained inwax the impression of the keys. By the diligence of his friends, a similar key,with a bundle of ropes, was introduced >nt0 'he prison, in the bottom of a hogshead.Andronicus employed, with industry and courage, the instrument of his safety, un­locked the doors, descended from the tower, concealed himself all day among thebushes, and scaled in the night the garden-wall of the palace. A boat was sta­tioned for his reception; he visited his own house» embraced his children, castaway his chain, mounted a fleet horse, and directed his rapid course towards thebanks of the Danube. At Anchialus in Thrace, an intrepid friend supplied himwith horses and money: he traversed with speed the desert of Moldavia and theCarpathian hills, and had almost reached the town of Haliez, in the Polish Russia,when he was intercepted by a party of Walachians, who resolved to convey theirimportant captive to Constantinople. His presence of mind again extricated himfrom this danger. Under the pretence of sickness, he dismounted in the night,and was allowed to step aside from the troop: he planted in the ground his longstaff, clothed it with his cap and upper garment; and, stealing into the wood, left aphantom to amuse, for some time, the eyes of the Walachians. From Haliez he washonourably conducted to Kiow, the residence of the great duke: the subtle Greeksoon obtained the esteem and confidence of Ieroslaus; his character could assumethe manners of every, climate; and the barbarians applauded his strength and cou­rage in the chase of the elks and bears of the forest. In this northern region hedeserved the forgiveness of Manuel, who solicited the Russian prince to join hisarms in the invasion of Hungary. The influence of Andronicus achieved this im­portant service: his private treaty was signed with a promise of fidelity on oneside, and of oblivion on the other; and he marched, at the head of the Russiancavalry, from the Borysthenes to the Danube. In his resentment Manuel hadever sympathized with the martial and dissolute character of his cousin; and hisfree pardon was sealed in the assault of Zemlin, in which he was second, and se­cond only, to the valour of the emperor. Ho sooner was the exile restored to freedom and his country, than his ambitionrevived, at first to his own, and at length to the public misfortune. A daughter ofManuel was a feeble bar to the succession of the more deserving males of the Com-nenian blood: her future marriage with the prince of Hungary was'repugnant tothe hopes or prejudices of the princes and nobles. But when an oath of allegianceVas required to the presumptive heir, Andronicus alone asserted the honour of the Vol. in. 34