OCR Output an. 586.] 378 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. one of a very eminent family, and exceed­ingly skilful in the language of his country.When Nebuzaradan had done thus, he madehaste to Babylon. But as to those that fledaway during the siege of Jerusalem, andhad been scattered over the country; whenthey heard that the Babylonians were goneaway, and had left a remnant in the land ofJerusalem, and those such as were to culti­vate the same; they came together from allparts to Gedaliah to Mispah. Now the ru­lers that were over them, were Johanan, theson of Kareah; and Jezaniah, and Seraiah,and others beside them. Now there was ofthe royal family one Ishmael, a wicked man,and very crafty; who, during the siege ofJerusalem, fled to Baalis, the king of theAmmonites, and abode with him during thattime. And Gedaliah persuaded them, nowthey were there, to stay with him, and haveno fear of the Babylonians; for that if theywould cultivate the country, they should suf­fer no harm. This he assured them of byoath, and said, that they should have him fortheir patron; and, that if any disturbanceshould arise, they should find him ready todefend them. He also advised them to dwellin any city, as every one of them pleased;and to send men along with his own servants,and rebuild their houses upon the old founda­tions, and dwell there. And he admonished them beforehand, that they should make pre­paration while the season lasted, of corn andwine, and oil; to subsist during the winter.When he had thus discoursed to them, hedismissed them; that every one might dwellin what part of the country he pleased. When this report was spread abroad asfar as the nations that bordered on Judea,that Gedaliah kindly entertained those thatcame to him, after they had fled away, uponcondition that they should pay tribute to theking of Babylon; they also came readily toGedaliah, and inhabited the country. Andwhen Johanan, and the rulers that were withhim, observed the country, and the humanityof Gedaliah, they were exceedingly in lovewith him, and told him, that Baalis, theking of the Ammonites, had sent Ishmael tokill him by treachery, and secretly; that hemight have the dominion over the Israelites,as being of the royal family; and they said,that he might deliver himself from his trea­cherous design, if he would give them leaveto slay Ishmael, and nobody should know it.For they told him they were afraid, thatwhen he was killed by the other, the entireruin of the remaining strength of the Israel­ites would ensue. But he professed, that hedid not believe what they said, when theytold him of such a treacherous design in aman that had been well treated by him; disciple to go along with them, where the prophet died,and Baruch soon after made his escape to his brethren inBabylon, where, according to the tradition of the Rab­bins, he likewise died in the twelfth year of his captivity.'But of what authority the book, which goes under hisname, is, or by whom it was written, and whether anything related therein be historically true, or the wholeof it a fiction, is altogether uncertain. Grotius, in hisCommentary upon it, thinks it an entire fiction of someHellenistical Jew, under the name of Baruch. And St.Jerom, long before him, (in the preface to his Expositionof Jeremiah,) tells us, that the reason why he did notmake a comment on this book, though, in the edition ofthe Septuagint, it be joined with Jeremiah, was, because itwas not deemed canonical among the Hebrews, and con­tains an epistle which falsely bears the name of Jeremiah.This epistle is annexed to the book, and, in the commondivision of it, makes the last chapter. But the main sub­ject of the book itself is likewise an epistle, either sent, orfeigned to be sent, by king Jehoiakim, and the Jews whowere in captivity with him in Babylon, to their brethrenthe Jews who were still left in Judah and Jerusalem:wherein they recommend to their prayers the emperorNebuchadnezzar and his children, that, under his domi­nion, they may lead quiet and peaceable lives; whereinthey confess their sins, and ask pardon for what is past, take notice of the threats of the prophets, which they hadso long despised, and acknowledge the righteousness ofGod in what he had brought upon them: wherein theyremind them of the advantage which the Jews had in theirknowledge of the law of God, and of true wisdom, aboveall other nations, and thereupon exhorted them to reformtheir manners, and forsake their evil customs, which wouldbe the only means to bring about their deliverance fromthe captivity under which they groaned. The whole isintroduced with an historical preface, wherein it is related,that Baruch, being then at Babylon, did, in the name ofthe captive king, and his people, draw up the same epistle,and afterwards read it to them for their approbation; andthat, together with it, they sent a collection of money tothe high-priest at Jerusalem, for the maintenance of thedaily sacrifices. This is the substance of the book itself:and, in the letter annexed to it, which goes under Jere­miah's name, the vanity of the Babylonish idols and idol­atry is set forth at large, and with liveliness enough. Ofthe whole there are but three copies; one in Greek, andthe other two in Syriac, whereof one agreeth with theGreek, though the other very much differs from it: butin what language it was originally written, or whether oneof these be not the original, or which of them may be so,it is next to impossible to tell. Prideaux's Connection,anno 595, and Calmet's Preface stir Baruch. B.