OCR Output xlviii On his Qualifications as a Historian. mired him, and I hope will continue to admire him gratis :We are bound to thank him, and never to lose sight of thatgrand political scheme, formed by a Themistocles, andwarmly and successfully pursued by an Aristides, a Cimon,and a Pericles; the swerving from which at Athens drewafter it the loss of the sovereignty at sea, then sunk her intoa petty State, and made her end at last in a mere academy,though most excellent in its kind. From such considerations it will also follow, that the hitory of Thucydides is more useful than that of Livy ; atleast, that we have more reason to applaud the choice of theformer. I design no comparison between these two histori­ans. The performance of the Jesuit Rapin on that point isin general reading. Livy's history is certainly more au­gust, more splendid, more amazing: I only insist that it isnot more useful. And, though Livy be happier in his sub­ject, this ought not to degrade Thucydides, who seized theonly fine subject that could offer itself to him: In regard tohim, it was either this or none at all. The parallel shouldbe only drawn in regard to execution, where much hath beensaid on both sides, and the superiority still remains unde­cided. This brings me to the inward abilities of genius and un­derstanding, which capacitated my author to execute hiswork. His genius was certainly of the highest order: It wastruly sublime. Here the critics unanimously applaud. Inthe arrangement of his matter he emulated Homer. In thegrandeur of his thoughts and loftiness of his sense he copiedPindar. He is ever stately and majestic; his statelinessperhaps too formal, his majesty too severe. He wrote, ashe thought, far beyond an ordinary person. He thinksfaster than he can utter: His sentences are full-stored withmeaning: And his very words are sentences. Hence comeshis obscurity. Where pure thought is the object, he connectstoo fast, nor is enough dilated for common apprehension.But this is not the case with the narrative part of his his­