OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 31 tinople was punished as a crime by his jealous monarch;the artful or peremptory refusal of the Byzantine courtmight excuse an equal, and would provoke a larger,measure of retaliation; and a mandate was prepared inItaly', to prohibit, after a stated day, the exercise of theCatholic worship. By the bigotry of his subjects andenemies, the most tolerant of princes was driven to thebrink of persecution; and the life of Theodoric was toolong., since he lived to condemn the virtue of Boethiusand Symmachus.' The senator Boethius" is the last of the Romans whom character,Cato or Tully could have acknowledged for their coun- and L™-tryman. As a wealthy orphan, he inherited the patri- so"hiL.mony and honours of the Anician family, a name ambi­tiously assumed by the kings and emperors of the age;and the appellation of Manlins asserted his genuine orfabulous descent from a race of consuls and dictators,who had repulsed the Gauls from the Capitol, and sacri­ficed their sons to the discipline of the republic. In theyouth of Boethius, the studies of Rome were not totallyabandoned; a Virgil" is now extant, corrected by thehand of a consul; and the professors of grammar, rhe­toric, and jurisprudence, were maintained in their privi­leges and pensions, by the liberality of the Goths. Butthe erudition of the Latin language was insufficient tosatiate his ardent curiosity; and Boethius is said to haveemployed eighteen laborious years in the schools ofAthens,1 which were supported by the zeal, the learning, 'I have laboured to extract a rational narrative from the dark, concise, and varioushints of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 722—724.) Theophanes, (p. 145.) Anastasins,(in Johanne.p. 35.)and the Hist.Miscella. (p. 108.edit.(Moratori.) A gentle pressureand paraphrase of their words is no violence. Consult likewise Muratori (Annalid'ltalia, tom. 4. p. 471—478.) with the Annals and Breviary (tom. 1. 259—263.) ofthe two Pagis, the uncle and the nephew. • Le Clerc has composed a ciitical and philosophical life of Anioius Manlius Seve­ring Boethius, (Blbliot. Chdisie, tom. 16. p. 168—275.) and both Tiraboschi (tom. 3.)and Fabricius (Bibllot. Latin.) may be usefully consulted. The date of his hirth mayhe placed about the year 470, and his death in 524, in a premature old age. (Consot.Phil. Metrica, 1. p. 5.) "For the age and value of this MS. now in the Medicean library at Florence, seethe Cenotaphia Pisana (p. 430—447.) of cardinal Noris. ? The Athenian studies of Boethius are doubtful (Baronius, A. D. 510. no. 3. from»' sburious tract, De Disciplina Scholarum), and the term of eighteen years is doubt-