OCR Output 9^ THE DECLINE AND FALL Commodusdisplay! his(kill in theamphithea­tre. medals'1) the Roman Hercules. The club and the lion's hidewere placed by the side of the throne, amongst the ensigns of so­vereignty; and statues were erected, in which Commodus wasrepresented in the character, and with the attributes of the God,whose valour and dexterity he endeavoured to emulate in the dailycourse of his ferocious amusements Elated with these praises, which gradually extinguished the in­nate sense of shame, Commodus resolved to exhibit, before the eyesof the Roman people, those exercises, which till then he had decentlyconfined within the walls of his palace, and to the presence of afew favourites. On the appointed day, the various motives offlattery, fear, and curiosity, attracted to the amphitheatre an innu­merable multitude of spectators; and some degree of applause wasdeservedly bestowed on the uncommon skill of the Imperial per­former. Whether he aimed at the head or heart of the animal, thewound was alike certain and mortal. With arrows, whose pointwas shaped into the form of a crescent, Commodus often inter­cepted the rapid career, and cut asunder the long bony neck of theostrichA panther was let loose; and the archer waited till hehad leaped upon a trembling malefactor. In the same instant thelhaft flew, the beast dropt dead, and the man remained unhurt.The dens of the amphitheatre disgorged at once a hundred lions;a hundred darts from the unerring hand of Commodus laid themdead as they ran raging round the Arena. Neither the huge bulkof the elephant, nor the scaly hide of the rhinoceros, could defendthem from his stroke. Æthiopia and India yielded their most ex­traordinary productions; and several animals were slain in the am­phitheatre, which had been seen only in the representations of art,or perhaps of fancy J+. In all these exhibitions, the securest pre­cautions were used to protect the person of the Roman Herculesfrom the desperate spring of any savage; who might possibly disre­gard the dignity of the emperor, and the sanctity of the god But