OCR Output 124 THE DECLINE AND TALL chap. which manufactured linen, built navies, and inventedXv- geographical maps. The ingenuity of the modernshas peopled, with flourishing cities and nations, theisthmus between the Euxine and the Caspian *; anda lively writer, observing the resemblance of climate,and, in his apprehension, of trade, has not hesitatedto pronounce Colchos the Holland of antiquity f.Ae"If But the riches of Colchos shine only through thedarkness of conjecture or tradition; and its genuinehistory presents an uniform scene of rudeness andpoverty. If one hundred and thirty languages werespoken in the market of Dioscurias, they were theimperfect idioms of so many savage tribes or families,sequestered from each other in the valleys of MountCaucasus; and their separation, which diminishedthe importance, must have multiplied the number,of their rustic capitals. In the present state of Min-grelia, a village is an assemblage of huts within awooden fence; the fortresses are seated in the depthsof forests; the princely town of Cyta, or Cotatis,consists of two hundred houses, and a stone edificeappertains only to the magnificence of kings. Twelveships from Constantinople, and about sixty barks,laden with the fruits of industry, annually cast an­chor on the coast; and the list of Colchian exportsis much increased, since the natives had only slavesand hides to offer in exchange for the corn and saltwhich they purchased from the subjects of Justinian.Not a vestige can be found of the art, the knowledge,or the navigation, of the ancient Colchians: fewGreeks desired or dared to pursue the footsteps ofthe Argonauts; and even the marks of an Egyptiancolony are lost on a nearer approach. The rite ofcircumcision is practised only by the Mahometans of • Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, 1. xxi. c . 6. L'Isthme .... couvert de villesct nations qui ne font plus. ■f Bougainville, Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom. xxvi. p. 33, onthe African voyage of Hanno and the commerce of antiquity.