OCR Output an. 976.] 901 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. treatment after his death; the bones notbeing then to be distinguished asunder." Butwhen he had performed those funeral rites tothe prophet, and had given that charge to hissons, as he was a wicked and impious man,he went to Jeroboam and said to him:—"Wherefore is it now that thou art disturbedat the words of this silly fellow?" And whenthe king related what had happened aboutthe altar and about his own hand; and gavehim the names of a divine man, and an excel­lent prophet; he endeavoured by a wickedtrick, to weaken that his opinion, and byusing plausible words concerning what hadhappened, he aimed to injure the truth thatwas in them. For he attempted to persuadehim, that his hand was enfeebled by thelabour it had undergone, in supporting thesacrifices; and that upon its resting awhileit returned to its former nature again. Andthat as to the altar, it was but new, and hadborne an abundance of sacrifices, and thoselarge ones too; and was accordingly brokento pieces, and fallen down, by the weight ofwhat had been laid upon it. He also in­formed him of the death of him that hadforetold those things, and how he perished;whence he concluded that he had not anything in him of a prophet, nor spake anything like one. When he had thus spokenhe persuaded the king; and entirely alienatedhis mind from God, and from doing worksthat were righteous and holy; and en­couraged him to go on in his impious prac­tices.* And accordingly he was to thatdegree injurious to God, and so great atransgressor; that he sought for nothing elseevery day but how he might be guilty ofsome new instances of wickedness; and suchas should be more detestable than what hehad been so insolent as to do before. Andso much shall at present suffice to have saidconcerning Jeroboam. CHAP. X. OF rehoboam's impiety, and his punishment by shishak KINO OF EGYPT. REHOBOAM,t the son of Solomon, who,as we said before, was king of the twotribes, built strong and large cities, Beth­lehem, Etam, Tekoa, Bethzur, Shoco, Adul-lam,J Ipan, Maresha, Ziph, Adoraim, La-chish, Azekah, Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron.These he built first of all in the tribe ofJudah. He also built other cities in the tribeof Benjamin; and walled them about, andput garrisons in them all, and captains, and agreat deal of corn, and wine, and oil; and hefurnished every one of them plentifully withother provisions that were necessary for sus­tenance. Moreover he put therein shieldsand spears, for many thousand men. The Eriests also that were in all Israel, and the.evites; and if there were any of the multi­tude that were good and righteous men, theygathered themselves together to him; havingleft their own cities, that they might worshipGod in Jerusalem. For they were not willingto be forced to worship the heifers, whichJeroboam had made; and they augmentedthe kingdom of Rehoboam for three years.And after he had married a woman of his ownkindred, and had by her three children; hemarried also another of his own kindred,who was the daughter of Absalom by Tamar,whose name was Maachah; and by her hehad a son, whom he named Abijah. He hadalso many other children by other wives; buthe loved Maachah above them all. Now hehad eighteen legitimate wives, and thirtyconcubines;|| and he had born to him twenty-eight sons, and threescore daughters; buthe appointed Abijah, whom he had byMaachah, to be his successor in the kingdom;and intrusted him with the treasures and thestrongest cities. * How much a larger and better copy Josephus had inthis remarkable history of the true prophet of Judea, andhis concern with Jeroboam, and with the false prophet ofBethel, than our other copies have, is evident at firstlight. The prophet's very name Jadon, or, as the Con­stitutions call him, Adonias, IV. 6. is wanting in our othercopies; and it is there, with no little absurdity, said, thatGod revealed Jadon the true prophet's death; not tohimself, as here, but to the false prophet. Of which seeEssay on the Old Test, page 74, 75. Whether the par­ticular account of the arguments made use of, after all, by the false prophet against his own belief, in order to per­suade Jeroboam to persevere in his idolatry and wicked­ness; and which it seems prevailed with him; than whichmore plausible could not be invented; was intimated inJosephus's copy, or in some other ancient book, cannotnow be determined; our other copies say not one wordof it. t An. 974. X Gath, 2 Chron. xi. 8. II Sixty, 2 Chron. xi. 21. 3H2