OCR Output OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 113 Commodus, maintained towards Pertinax a stately ambiguous reserve,and instantly declared against the usurpation of Julian. The convul­sions of the capital added new weight to his sentiments, or rather tohis professions of patriotism. A regard to decency induced him todecline the lofty titles of Augustus and Emperor; and he imitatedperhaps the example of Galba, who, on a similar occasion, had styledhimself the Lieutenant of the senate and people Personal merit alone had raised Pescennius Niger from an obscure Pescenniusbirth and station, to the government of Syria; a lucrative and im- sy'fj" mportant command, which in times of civil confusion gave him anear prospect of the throne. Yet his parts seem to have been bettersuited to the second than to the first rank;'he was an unequal rivalthough he might have approved himself an excellent lieutenant toSeverus, who had sufficient greatness of mind to adopt severaluseful institutions from a vanquished enemy In his government,Niger acquired the esteem of the soldiers and the love of the pro­vincials. His rigid discipline fortified the valour and confirmed theobedience of the former, whilst the voluptuous Syrians were lessdelighted with the mild firmness of his administration than withthe affability of his manners, and the apparent pleasure with whichhe attended their frequent and pompous festivals ". As soon as theintelligence of the atrocious murder of Pertinax had reached Antioch,the wishes of Asia invited Niger to assume the Imperial purple andrevenge his death. The legions of the eastern frontier embracedhis cause; the opulent but unarmed provinces from the frontiers ofÆthiopia *' to the Hadriatic, cheerfully submitted to his power; andthe kings beyond the Tigris and the Euphrates congratulated hiselection, and offered him their homage and services. The mind ofNiger was not capable of receiving this sudden tide of fortune; heflattered himself that his accession would be undisturbed by compe­tition, and unstained by civil blood; and whilst he enjoyed the vainpomp of triumph, he neglected to secure the means of victory. In-Vol. I. stead