OCR Output C. II.] OF THE JEWS. 255 7. In the mean time, the rest of the Roman army had, inseven days' time, overthrown [some] foundations of the towerof Antonia, and had made a ready and broad way to thetemple. Then did the legions come near the first court,1 andbegan to raise their banks. The one bank was over againstthe north-west corner of the inner temple;2 another was atthat northern edifice which was between the two gates: ofthe other two, one was at the western cloister of the outercourt3 of the temple; the other against its northern cloister.However, these works were thus far advanced by the Ro­mans, not without great pains and difficulty, and particularlyby being obliged to bring their materials from the distanceof a hundred furlongs. They had farther difficulties alsoupon them; sometimes by their overgreat security they werein that they should overcome the Jewish snares laid for them,and by that boldness of the Jews which their despair of es­caping had inspired them withal; for some of their horse­men, when they went out to gather wood or hay, let theirhorses feed, without having their bridles on, during the timeof foraging; upon which horses the Jews sallied out in wholebodies, and seized them. And when this was continuallydone, and Caesar believed, what the truth was, that thehorses were stolen more by the negligence of his own menthan by the valor of the Jews, he determined to use greaterseverity to oblige the rest to take care of their horses: so hecommanded that one of those soldiers who had lost theirhorses should be capitally punished ; whereby he so terrifiedthe rest, that they preserved their horses for the time tocome; for they did not any longer let them go from thern tofeed by themselves, but, as if they had grown to them, theywent always along with them when they wanted necessaries.Thus did the Romans still continue to make war against thetemple, and to raise their banks against it. 8. Now, after one day had been interposed since theRomans ascended the breach, many of the seditious were sopressed by the famine upon the present failure of theirravages, that they got together, and made an attack on those 1 Court of the Gentiles. * Court of Israel. ' Court of the Gentiles.