OCR Output 58 CINNABAR. ground to powder.3 This is the second rate kind of minium,which indeed is known to very few, and which is much less valu­able than the native species. And this is the substance which isemployed by our public companies to adulterate genuine minium.In this way they make Syricum, by a process which I shalldescribe it in its proper place.* It is evident, by reckoning thecost of the article, that in painting with minium the ground isoften laid with syricum. Another dishonest custom which painterspractise is to wash the brushes when they are loaded with paint;this settles to the bottom of the water, and is pilfered by the work­men. Pure minium ought to have the rich colour of crimson.When the inferior kind is laid upon walls, in consequence of theirmoisture, the colour becomes very much less brilliant; yet this issupposed to be a species of metallic rust. In the Sisaponensianminium mines the ore is calcined without silver, like gold. It istested by heated gold; the factitious kind is rendered black, whilethe colour of the genuine kind is not affected. I find that it isalso adulterated by lime. If there be no gold at hand, a plate ofheated iron may be substituted for the gold. Exposure to thelight, either of the sun or of the moon, is injurious to the colour;the remedy is to cover the wall, when it is become dry, with amixture of Punic wax and oil, which is to be laid on while hotwith hair brushes. It is to be heated again by burning gall nuts,5 until the surfacemelts; it is then smoothed down with tapers,6 and afterwards rubbedwith clean linen cloths, as marbles are cleaned and polished.7 Theworkmen who prepare minium in the manufactories, bind bladdersloosely over the face, to prevent them from taking the poison- 3 Theophrastus speaks of a native and an artificial minium; the latterwould appear to be merely a pulverized red earth; Op. p. 399; De Lapid.sec. 103. 4 Lib. xxxv. sec 24. The only account we have of it is, that it is formedby a mixture of " Sinopis" and " Sandyx," which appear to be species ofochres. 5 "Admotis gallse carbonibus;" the galls would act in no other way thanas a convenient mode of applying heat. 6 "Candelis subigitur;" it seems difficult to determine what was the com­position of the candeta, and what was the object of this part of the process. 'This process is described by Vitruvius; the painted surface is coveredwith a mixture of wax and oil, this is melted by burning coals, and rubbedwith a roll of linen cloth, the application of the candela is omitted; lib. vii.cap. 9; Newton's Trans, p. 169.