OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 47 Critolaus at last appeared alone and informed them that thegeneral assembly of the Achaeans was alone competent inthis matter, and that it could only be settled at the diet or,in other words, in six months. Caesar thereupon returnedto Rome; and the next national assembly of the Achaeans onthe proposal of Critolaus formally declared war against Sparta.Even now Metellus made an attempt amicably to settle thequarrel, and sent envoys to Corinth; but the noisy ecclesia,consisting mostly of the mob of that wealthy commercialand manufacturing city, drowned the voice of the Romanenvoys and compelled them to leave the platform. Thedeclaration of Critolaus, that they wished the Romans to betheir friends but not their masters, was received with inex­pressible delight; and, when the members of the diet wishedto interpose, the mob protected the man after its own heart,and applauded the sarcasms as to the high treason ofthe rich and the need of a military dictatorship as well asthe mysterious hints regarding an impending insurrection ofnumerous peoples and kings against Rome. The spiritanimating the movement is shown by the two resolutions,that all clubs should be permanent and that all actions fordebt should be suspended till the restoration of peace. The Achaeans thus had war; and they had even actualallies, namely the Thebans and Boeotians and also the Chal-cidians. At the beginning of 608 the Achaeans advanced 146.into Thessaly to reduce to obedience Heraclea near Oeta,which, in accordance with the decree of the senate, haddetached itself from the Achaean league. The consul LuciusMuminius, whom the senate had resolved to send toGreece, had not yet arrived; accordingly Metellus under­took to protect Heraclea with the Macedonian legions.When the advance of the Romans was announced to theAchaeo-Theban army, there was no more talk of fighting;they considered only how they might best succeed in reachingonce more the secure Peloponnesus; in all haste the armymade off, and did not even attempt to hold the position ofThermopylae. But Metellus quickened the pursuit, and over­took and defeated the Greek army near Scarpheia in Locris.The loss in prisoners and dead was considerable; Critolauswas never heard of after the battle. The remains of thedefeated army wandered to and fro in single troops, andeverywhere sought admission in vain; the division of Patraewas destroyed in Phocis, the Arcadian select corps at