OCR Output 14B LAURENTUM. LAVINIUM. ceived a fresh colony, which for a short time raisedit again to a degree of prosperity. On this occasionit would appear that the Laurentines and Lnvinianswere united into one community, which assumedthe name of Lauro-Lavotxum, and the citizensthat of Laurentes Lavinates, names whichfrom henceforth occur frequently in inscriptions.As a tribute to its ancient sacred character, thougha fresh apj>ortionment of lands necessarily attendedthe establishment of this colony, the territory stillretained its old limits and regulations (lege et con-tecratione vekri manet, Lib. Colon, p. 234.) Thisunion of the two communities into one has givenrise to much confusion and misconception. Norcan we trace exactly tlio mude in which it was ef­fected : but it would appear that Lavinium becamothe chief town, while the " populus " continued to beoften called that of the Laurentes, though morecorrectly designated as that of tho Laurentes Lavi­nates. The effect of this confusion is apparent inthe commentary of Servius on the Aeneid, whoevidently confounded the Laurentum of Virgil withthe Lauro-Lavinium of his own day, and thence,strangely enough, identities it with the Laviniumfounded as the same city. (Serv. ad Aen. i. 2.)Uut, even at a much earlier period, it would seemns if the " ager Laurens,'' or Laurentine territory,was regarded as comprising Lavinium; and it iscertainly described as extending to the river Numi-cius, which was situated between Lavinium andArdea. [Ntnuciva.] Inscriptions discovered atPraiica enable us to trace the existence of thisnew colony, or revived Lavinium, down to the endof the 4th century; and its name is found also inthe Itineraries and the Tabula, (/tin. Ant. p. 301;Tab. Peut.; Orell. Inter. 1063,2179,3218. 3921.) We learn also from a letter of Symnutchus that itwas still subsisting as a municipal town as late asa. D. 391, and still retained its ancient religiouscharacter. Macrobius also informs us that in histime it was still customary for the Kotnan consulsand praetors, when entering on their office, to repairto Lavinium to offer certain sacrifices there to Vestaand the Pcnatea,—a custom which appears to havebeen transmitted without interruption from a veryearly period. (Macrob. Sat. ii. 4. § 11; Val. Max.i. 6. §7; Symmach. Ep. i. 65.) The final decayof Lavinium was probably produced by the fall ofpaganism, and the consequent extinction of thatreligious reverence which had apparently been theprincipal means of its preservation for a long whilebefore. The position of Lavinium at Praiica may be con­sidered as clearly established, by the discovery thereof the numerous inscriptions already referred to re­lating to Lauro-Lavinium : in other respects alsothe site of Pratica agrees well with the data for thatof Lavinium, which is placed by Dionysius 24stadia, or 3 miles, from the coast. (Dionys. i. 56.)The Itineraries call it 16 miles from Rome; but thisstatement is below the truth, the real distance beinglittle, if at all, less than 18 miles. The most directapproach to it from Rome is by the Via Ardeatina,from whence a side branch diverges soon afterpasting the Solfatara,—a spot supposed to be the siteof the celebrated grove and oracle of iaunus, referredto by Virgil [Ahdea], which is about 4 miles fromPratica. The site of this latter village, which stillpossesses a baronial castle of the middle age*, re­sembles those of most of the early Latin towns: itis a nearly isolated hill, with a level summit of no I great extent, bounded by wooded ravines, with iI hanks of tufo rock. These banks hare probaMybeen on all sides more or less scarped or cut awayartificially, and some slight remains of the ancientwalls may be still traced in one or two places. Bc-J sides the inscriptions already noticed, noma frag­ments of marble columns remain from the Imperialperiod, while broken pottery and terra cottaa of arude workmanship found scattered in the (will arethe only relics of an earlier age. (Nibby, DuiUrmi,I voL ii. pp. 206—237.) [E. H. B-] LAVISCO or LABISCO, in Gallia Narboneneis,appears on a route from Mcdiolanum (,l/i/<in) throeruDarar.tasin (Moutiert tn Tareniui&e) to Vienna ( I's-enne) on the lihone. Lavisco is lietwecn Len.iDcu&i(Lcmens, or Chambery au Mvnt lj-miw) ar.d A'J-gustum (Aotte or Aoustr), and 14 M. P. from eath.D'Anvillc supposes that lavisco was at the furd ofthe little river Ltiute. near its source ; but the dis­tance between Lcmincum and Au:;ustum, 28 M. P.is too much, and accordingly he would alter thefigures in the two parts of this distance on em* h tiirof Lavisco, from xiiii. to viiiL [G. L.J LAUMELLUM (Aa»>«AAoi', Ptol. iiL 1. § 36:Lomellv), a town of Gallia Transpadau, not mo­tioned by Pliny, but placed by Ptolemy, togetherwith Vercellae, in the territory of the Libici. 1l>-Itin. Ant. (pp. 282, 347) places it on the r aid fromTicinum to Vercellae, at 22 M. P. fr>un the formerand 20 from the latter city: these distances acres-well with the position of Lamella, a small town onthe right bank of the Affogna, about 10 mil™ fromI its confluence with the Po. According to the sameItinerary (p. 340) another road led from thence byKigomagus and Quadratae to Augustae Taariiinruni.and in accordance with this Ammianus Marcvllinu(xv. 8. § 18) mentions Laumellum as an the directroad from Ticinum to Taurini. It seems not tohave enjoyed municipal rank in the time of Pliny,but apparently became a place of more considerationin later days, and under the Lombard rule was a, town of importance, as it continued during li'«■ middle ages; so that, though now but a poor de-| caved place, it still gives to the surrounding dss-| trict the name of Lumcllina. [E. 11. U.] LAUREATA, a place on the coast of Ualmatim.which was taken by the traitor Ilaufns, fur Tuilaand the Goths, in A. D. 548. (Prueop. B. (J. iiL 35;Le Beau, Bat Empire, voL ix. p. 182.) [E. fi J.]LAURENTUM (Aoifosrvor, Strab. et aL; Aae-ptrrir, Dion. Hal.: Etk. Aewptrrtms, Laurentinaa:I Torre diPaUrnb),m ancient city of Latium. titsalninear the sea-coast between CMia and Lavininm.at<out 16 miles from Koine. It was repr**rnu>i bythe legendary history universally adopted by K 4i-»aI writers as the ancient capital of Latium, and theresidence of king Latinus, at the timo. when Aei>^i»and the Trojan colony landed in that country. Ailwriters also concur in representing the latter a* firstlanding on the shores of the Laurentine trrrivey.(Liv. i. 1; Dionys. i. 45, S3; Strab. v. p. SaW;Appian. Horn. i. 1; Vict. Orig. tint. Bam. 13;I Virg. ^en. vii. 45, &c.) But the same leceodaryhistory related that after the death of Latin us. theseat of government was transferred first to Lavinium.and subsequently tn Alba; hence we cannot wanderthat, when Laurentum appears in historical time*, itholds but a very subordinate place, an>l appears tnhave fallen at a very early period into a slate nf'comparative insignificance. The hwtnrkal[ of the city are indeed extremely few and scanty.