OCR Output CHAP. LI. 453 with his two governments his two sons, Abdullah andAbdelaziz. His long triumph, from Ceuta to Damas­cus, displayed the spoils of Afric and the treasures ofSpain: four hundred Gothic nobles, with gold coronetsand girdles, were distinguished in his train: and thenumber of male and female captives, selected for theirbirth or beauty, was computed at eighteen, or even atthirty, thousand persons. As soon as he reached Tibe­rias in Palestine, he was apprized of the sickness anddanger of the caliph, by a private message from Soliman,his brother and presumptive heir; who wished to reservefor his own reign the spectacle of victory. Had Walidrecovered, the delay of Musa would have been criminal:he pursued his march, and found an enemy on the throne.In his trial before a partial judge, against a popular an­tagonist, he was convicted of vanity and falsehood; anda fine of two hundred thousand pieces of gold either ex­hausted his poverty or proved his rapaciousness. Theunworthy treatment of Tarik was revenged by a similarindignity; and the veteran commander, after a publicwhipping, stood a whole day in the sun before the palacegate, till he obtained a decent exile$ under the piousname of a pilgrimage to Mecca. The resentment of thecaliph might have been satiated with the ruin of Musa,but his fears demanded the extirpation of a potent andinjured family. A sentence of death was intimated withsecrecy and speed to the trusty servants of the throneboth in Africa and Spain: and the forms, if not the sub­stance, of justice were superseded in this bloody execu­tion. In the mosch or palace of Cordova, Abdelazizwas slain by the swords of the conspirators; they accusedtheir governor of claiming the honours of royalty: andhis scandalous marriage with Egilona, the widow of Ro-deric, offended the prejudices both of the Christians andMoslems. By a refinement of cruelty, the head of theson was presented to the father, with an insulting ques­tion, whether he acknowledged the features of the rebel?