OCR Output 348 THE SICARII AT ALEXANDRIA. [B. VII. 3. So Ptolemy complied with his proposals, and gave hima place' one hundred and eighty furlongs distant from Mem­phis. That Nomos was called the Nomos of Heliopolis, whereOnias built a fortress and a temple not like to that at Jeru­salem, but such as resembled a tower. He built it of largestones to the height of sixty cubits: he made the structureof the altar in imitation of that in our own country, and inlike manner adorned with gifts, excepting the make of thecandlestick; for he did not make a candlestick, but had a[single] lamp hammered out of a piece of gold, which illu­minated the place with its rays, and which he hung by achain of gold>; but the entire temple was encompassed witha wall of burnt brick, though it had gates of stone. Theking also gave him a large country for a revenue in money,that both the priests might have a plentiful provision madefor them, and that God might have great abundance of whatthings were necessary for his worship. Yet did not Oniasdo this out of a sober disposition, but he had a mind to con­tend with the Jews at Jerusalem, and could not forget theindignation he had for being banished thence. Accordingly,he thought that, by building this temple, he should draw awaya great number from them to himself. There had been alsoa certain ancient prediction made by [a prophet,] whosename was Isaiah, about six hundred years before, that thistemple should be built by a man that was a Jew in Egypt.2And this is the history of the building of that temple. 4. And now Lupus, the governor of Alexandria, upon thereceipt of Caesar's letter, came to the temple, and carried outof it some of the donations dedicated thereto, and shut upthe temple itself. And as Lupus died a little afterward,Paulinus succeeded him. This man left none of those dona­ 1 We must observe, that Josephus here speaks of Antiochus, who profanedthe temple, as now alive, when Onias had leave given him by Philometer tobuild his temple; whereas it seems not to have been actually built till aboutfifteen years afterwards. Vet because it is said in the Antiquities, that Oniaswent to Philometer, B. xii. ch. ix. sect. 7, during the lifetime of that Antio­chus, it is probable he petitioned, and, perhaps, obtained his leave then,though it wcro not actually built or finished till fifteen ycars afterward. 2 Isa. xix. 18-23.