OCR Output CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY. . m "of his brother, Q. Fabius, and the republic for the loss"of one of its parents, he could not think of accepting"the laurel, defaced with public, as well as private"grief." . , , . The refusal of a triumph did him more honour thanany triumph could have done; so true it is, that a properneglect of glory sometimes considerably exalts it. Hisfirst care was to pay the last honours to his brother andhis colleague: he pronounced their funeral orations him­self, and set the glorious actions of both in the fullestlight ; by which means, the generous praises he bestow­ed, reflected in a very great degree upon himself. Agree­able to a plan he laid down to himself, in the beginningof his consulship, of bringing about a reconciliation be­tween the senate and people, he distributed the woundedsoldiers among the houses of the senators to be cured,and most into those of the Fabii, and they were drest nowhere else with so much care. From that date, theFabii became popular, but by methods entirely consistentwith, and salutary to the commonwealth. CHAP. XLVIII. Proposal of the Fabian Family. J.N consequence of this agreeable reverse, Caeso Fabiusis chosen consul, with T. Virginins, as much by thegood will of the populace, as the interest of the senate 5and make a point of it) before he entered upon levies,wars, or any other public business, that the hopes of con­cord, which begun already to be conceived, should benourished, so as the senate and people might rjuicklycome to a perfect understanding. For this purpose, inthe beginning of the new year, he made a motion, thatbefore any tribune should have it in his power to revivethe question about the Agrarian law, the senate should*in its own right, begin the division of the land takenfrom the enemy among the people, with all the impar­ttality in their power. For nothing was more just thanthat these people shoutd have it, by whose blood andtoil it had been purchased. The fathers would not agreeto the motion 5 nay, some of them complained, that the