OCR Output INCARUS. ISDIA. 43 goddess Eileithyia is said to have been worshippedhere, and to hare obtained one of her epithets fromit. (Callim, Fr. 168; Pashley, Trav. vol. i. p. 289;Hix-k. Kreta, vol. i. p. 412.) [E. B. J.] IXCABUS, on the coast of Gallia Narbonensis, isplaced by the Itm. next to Massilia. It is west ofMassilia, and the distance is 12 M. P. The placeb Carry, which retains its name. The distance ofthe ltin. was probably estimated by a boat rowingal<mg the coast; and a good map is necessary toshow how far it is correct [G. L.] lNCRICNES (lyKpluns), a tribe of the Sigam-bri, mentioned only by Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 9). Theyapparently occupied the southernmost part of theterritory inhabited by the Sigambri. Some believetbem to be the same as the Jnhones of Tacitus(Ann. xiii. 57), in whose territory an extensive con­flagration of the soil occurred in A. D. 59. Someplace them near the month of the river Lakn andthe httle town of Engers; while others, with lessprt«oability, regard Ingersheim, on the Neclcar, asthe place once inhabited by the Incriones. [L. S.] IXDAPKATHAE ('Iromrpaflai, Ptol. viii. 2. § 18,a name, doubtless, connected with the Sanscrit In-draprastAa'), a people occupying nearly the samepsitinn as the Ibcrim'iak. [V.] INDIA (fi 'I^Sio, Polyaen. iv. 3. § 30; Plin. vi.17. s. 20; v rmr 'lptiuy yi\, Arrian, And), v. 4; t\"Wiirt, Strab. xi. p. 514: Etk. 'Ivl6i), a country ofgreat extent in the southern part of Asia, boundeden the north by the great chain of the Himalayamountains, which extend, under variously modifiednames, from the Brahmaputra river on the E. to theIndus on the W., and which were known in ancienttimes under the names Emodus and Imaus. [EmodiMosmsa.] These mountains separated the plaincountry of India to the S. of them from the steppes ofTatary on the K., and formed the water-shed of mostof the great rivers with which India is so plentifullystrpplied. On the E. the Brahmaputra, which sepa­rates it from Ava and Burmah, is its principal boun­dary; though, if the definition of India be adoptedwhich was in rogue among the later classical geo­graphers, those countries as far as the commencementof the Chinese empire on the S. must be compre­hended within the limits of India. On the S. it isbnonded by the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean,and on the W. by the Indus, which separates it fromGMroaia, Arachosia, and the land of the Paropami-s.vlae. Some writers, indeed (as Lassen, Pentap.Indie. Bonn, 1827), have considered the districtsalong the southern spurs of the Paropamisus (orHindi-KusK) as part of India; bnt the passage ofPliny on which Lassen relies would make India com­prehend the whole of Afghanistan to Beluehistdn onthe Indian Ocean; a position which can hardly bemaintained as the deliberate opinion of any ancient■other. It may, indeed, be doubted whetherthe Indians them­selves ever laid down any accurate boundary of theircountry westward (LairsofMarm,ii. v. 22,quoted byLassen, Pmtap. Indie, p. 8); though the Saratrati(Hydraotes) separated their sacred land from WesternIndia. Generally, however, the Indus was held tobe their western boundary, as is clear from Strnbo'swords (xv. p. 689), and may be inferred from Pliny'sdescription (vi. 20. s. 23). It ie necessary, before we proceed to give the prin­cipal division*, mountain ranges, rivers, and cities ofIndia, to trace very briefly, through the remains ofclinical literature, the gradual progress of the know- ledge which the ancient world possessed of Ihiicountry; a land which, from first to last, seems tohave been to them a constant source of wonder andadmiration, and therefore not unnaturally the themeof many strange and fabulous relations, which eventheir most critical writers have not failed to record. Though the Greeks were not acquainted withIndia in the heroic ages, and though the name itselfdoes not occur in their earliest writers, it seems notunlikely that they had some faint idea of a distantland in the far East which was very populous andfruitful. The occurrence of the names of objects ofIndian merchandise, such as Kiuro-tripos, 4\i<pas,and others, would seem to Bhow this. The samething would seem to be obscurely hinted at in thetwo Aethiopias mentioned by Homer, the one towardsthe setting, and the other in the direction of therising sun (Od. i. 23, 24); and a similar inferencemay probably be drawn from some of the early noticesof these Aethiopians, whose separate histories arcperpetually confounded together, many things beingpredicated of the African nation which could be onlytrue of an Indian people, and vice versa. Thatthere were a people whom the Greeks called Aethic-pes in the neighbourhood of, if not within the actualboundaries of India, is clear from Herodotus (vii. 70),who states in another place that all the Indians (ex­cept the Daradae) resembled the Aethiopians in thedark colour of their skins (iii. 101); while abundantinstances may be observed of the intermixture of theaccounts of the African and Indian Aethiopians, as,for example, in Ctesias (Indie. 7, ed. BHhr. p. 354),Pliny (viii. 30. 3), who quotes Ctesias, Scylax, inhis description of India (ap. Philostrat, Vil. Apoll.iii. 14), Taetzes (Chil. vii. 144), Aolian (II. An.xvi. 31), Agatharchides (de Rvbro A/art, p. 44, ed.Huds.), Pollux (Onomast. v. 5), and many otherwriters. Just in the same way a confusion may benoticed in the accounts of Libya, as in Herodotus(iv. 168—199; cf. Ctesias, Indie. 13), where heintermixes Indian and African tales. Even so lateas Alexander's invasion, we know that the sameconfusion prevailed, Alexander himself believing thathe would find the sources of the Nile in India.(Strab. xv. p. 696; Arrian, Exp. Alex. vi. 1.) It is not remarkable that the Greeks should havehad but little knowledge of India or its inhabitantstill a comparatively late period of their history, andthat neither Homer nor Pindar, nor the great Greekdramatists Sophocles and Euripides, should mentionby its name either India or any of its people. It is pro­bable that, at this early period, neither commerce norany other ennse had led the Greeks beyond the shoresof Syria eastward, and that it was not till the Persianwars that the existence of vast and populous regionsto the E. of Persia itself became distinctly known tothem. Some individual names may have reachedthe ears of tho^e who inquired; perhaps some -indi­vidual travellers may have heard of these far distantrealms; such, for instance, as the physician I)e-mocedes, when residing at the court of Dareius, theson of Hystaspes (Herod, iii. 127), and Democritusof Abdera (b. c. 460—400), who is said by severalauthors to have travelled to Egypt, Persia, Aethio-pia, and India (Diog. Laert. ix. 72; Strab. xvi. p.703; Clem. Strom, i. p. 304; Suidas, s. v.). Yetlittle was probably known beyond a few names. The fii st historian who speaks clearly on the subjectis Hecataeus of Miletus (B.C. 549—486). In the fewfragments which remain of his writings, and whichhave been carefully collected by Klausen (Berl.