OCR Output C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 55 case, and Low it becomes generals to die. Dost thou sendme to Nero ? For why ? Are Nero's successors till theycome to thee still alive ? Thou, O Vespasian, art Caesar andemperor, thou and this thy son. Bind me now still faster,and keep me for thyself; for thou, O Caesar, art not onlylord over me, but over the land, and the sea, and all man­kind ; and certainly I deserve to be kept in closer custodythan I now am in, in order to be punished, if I rashly affirmany thing of God." When he had said this, Vespasian atpresent did not believe him, but supposed that Josephus saidthis, as a cunning trick, in order to his own preservation;but in a little time he was convinced, and believed what hesaid to be true, God himself erecting his expectations, so asto think of obtaining the empire, and by other signs fore­showing his advancement. He also found Josephus to havespoken truth on other occasions : for one of those friends thatwere present at that secret conference, said to Josephus: "Icannot but wonder how thou couldest not foretell to the peo­ple of Jotapata that they should be taken, nor couldest fore­tell this captivity which hath happened to thyself, unless whatthou now sayest be a vain thing, in order to avoid the ragethat is risen against thyself." To which Josephus replied:" I did foretell to the people of Jotapata, that they would betaken on the forty-seventh day, and that I should be caughtalive by the Romans." Now when Vespasian had inquiredof the captives privately about these predictions, he foundthem to be true, and then he began to believe those that con­cerned himself. Yet did ho not set Josephus at liberty fromhis bonds, but bestowed on him suits of clothes, and otherprecious gifts ; he treated him also in a very obliging manner,and continued so to do, Titus still joining his interest in thehonors that were done him. selves, rather than go into slavery under heathens. I doubt this would havebeen no better than zelf-murder; and I believe it was rather some vain doc­trine, or interpretation of the rigid Pharisees, or Essencs, or Hcrodiane,than a just consequence from any law of God delivered by Moses.