OCR Output 252 DECLINE AND PALL [CHAP. XLII. quisitions; and of the.ten nations, vanquished by his in-. vincible arms, he esteems the Romans as the least foiv.midable."" According to the orientals, the empire ofNushirvan extended from Ferganah in Transoxiana toYemen or Arabia Felix. He subdued the rebels ofHyrcania, reduced the provinces of Cabul and Zablestanon the banks of the Indus, broke the power of the Eu^thalites, terminated by an honourable treaty the Turkish.war, and admitted the daughter of the great khan intothe number of his lawful wives. Victorious and respect­ed among the princes of Asia, he gave audience, in hispalace of Madain, or Ctesiphon, to the ambassadors of.the world. Their gifts or tributes, arms, rich garments,gems, slaves, or aromatics, were humbly presented at thefoot of his throne; and he condescended to accept from'the king of India, ten quintals of the wood of aloes,a maidseven cubits in height, and a carpet softer than silk, the.skin, as it was reported, of an extraordinary serpent/Conquest Justinian had been reproached for his alliance withthe Ethiopians, as if he attempted to introduce a peo­ple of savage negroes into the system of civilized society.But the friends of the Roman empire, the Axumites, orAbyssinians, maybe always distinguished from the ori­ginal natives of Africa.1 The hand pf nature has flat­tened the noses of the negroes, covered their heads withshaggy wool, and tinged their skin with inherent andindelible blackness. But the olive complexion of theAbyssinians, their hair, shape, and features, distinctlymark them as acolony of Arabs; and this descent is con­firmed by the resemblance of langaageand manners, the I x The negotiations and 'treaties between Justinian and Cliosroes are copiouslyexplained by Prooopius; (Persic. lib. 2. c. 10. 13, 36—28. Gothic. lib. 2. c. 11.•iS-yAgathias, (lib. 4. p. 141, 142.) and Menandcr. (in Excerpt. Legat, p. 132—147.) Consult Barbeyrac, Hist, des Anciens Traites, torn. 2. p. 154. 181—184,'193—eoo. - * P'fterbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 680, 681. 894, 295. 1 See Buifon, Hist. Naturellc, tom. 3. p. 449. Thia Arab cast of features andcomplexion, which has continued three thousand fear hundred years, (Ladolph.'Hist, et Comment. '/Ethiopia, lib. 1. e. 4.) in the colony of Abyssinia, will 'justify thesuspicion, that race, ns well as climate, must1ia»e contributed to form Uie negroes ofthe adjacent and similar regions. ,.v ,? C 8 ofthoAbyssini­ans, A. D. 522.