OCR Output 122 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. time to hold his ground, we may say, as a captain of robbersand to lead the state as its first citizen—a dilemma to which•Pericles, Caesar, and Napoleon had also to make dangeroussacrifices. But the conduct of Gaius Gracchus cannotbe wholly explained from this necessity; along with it thereworked in him that consuming passion, that glowing re­venge, which foreseeing its own destruction hurls the fire­brand iuto the house of the foe. He has himself expressedwhat he thought of his ordinance as to the jurymen andsimilar measures intended to divide the aristocracy; hecalled them daggers, which he had thrown into the Forumthat the burgesses—the nobles, of course—might lacerateeach other with them. He was a political incendiary. Notonly was the hundred years' revolution which dates fromhim, so far as it was one man's work, the work of GaiusGracchus, but he was above all the true founder of thatterrible civic proletariate flattered and paid by the classesabove it, which was through its aggregation in the capital—thenatural consequence of the largesses of corn—at once utterlydemoralized and made conscious of its power, and which—with its pretensions, sometimes stupid, sometimes knavish,and its talk of the sovereignty of the people—lay like an in­cubus for five hundred years upon the Roman commonwealthand only perished along with it. And yet again, this greatestof political transgressors was the regenerator of his country.There is scarce a fruitful idea in Roman monarchy, which isnot traceable to Gaius Gracchus. From him proceeded themaxim—founded indeed in a certain sense in the nature ofthe traditionary laws of war, but yet in the extensionand practical application now given to it foreign to the olderstate-law—that all the land of the subject communities wasto be regarded as the private property of the state; amaxim, which was primarily employed to vindicate the rightof the state to tax that land at pleasure, as was the case inAsia, or to apply it for the institution of colonies, as wasdone in Africa, and which became afterwards a fundamentalprinciple of law under the Empire. From him proceededthe tactics adopted by the demagogues and tyrants, wherebywith the support of material interests they broke down thegoverning aristocracy, but subsequently legitimized thechange of constitution by substituting a strict and judiciousadministration for the previous misgovernment. To him, inparticular, are traceable the first steps towards such a reconci­