OCR Output 112 LACONIA. LACONIA. given by Lycnrgus, and that .1000 were added byking Polydorus at the end of the First Me-sscniaiiWar; others supposed that the original number of4500 was doubled by Polydorus. (l'lut. L c.) Fromthese statements attempts have been made by modernwriters to calculate the population of Laconia, andthe relative numbers of the Syrians and the Perioeci;but Mr. Grote has brought forward strong reasonsfor believing thai no such division of the landedproperty of Laconia was ever made by Lycurgua,and that the belief of his having done so arose in thethird century before the Christian era, when Agisattempted to make a fresh division of the land ofI.aconia. (Grote, Ilitt. of Greece, vol. ii. p. 521.)In any case, it is impossible to determine, as somewriters have attempted, the lands which belongedrespectively to the Spartans and the Perioeci. Allthat we know is, that, in the law proposed by Agis,the land bound by the four limits of Pellene, Sellasia,Malca, and Taygetus, was divided into 4500 lots,one for each Sprtan; and that the remainder ofLaconia was divided into 15,000 lots, one for eachPerioecus (Plut. Ag'u, 8.) With respect to the population of Laconia, wehave a few isolated statements in the ancient waters.Of these the most important is that of Herodotus,who says that the citizens of Sparta at the time ofthe Persian wars was about 8000 (vii. 234). Thenumber of the Perioeci is nowhere stated; but wekuow from Herodotus that there were 10,000 ofthem present at the battle of Plataea, 5000 heavy-armed, and 5000 light-armed (ix. 11, 29); and, asthere were 5000 Spartans at this buttle, that is five-eighths of the whole number of citizens, we mayventure to assume as an approximate number, thatthe Perioeci at the battle may have been also five-eighths of their whole number, which would give16.000 for the males of full age. After the time ofthe Persian wars the number of the Spartan citizensgradually but steadily declined; and Clinton is pro­bably right in bis supposition that at the time ofthe invasion of Laconia, in B. c. 3G9, the total num­ber of Spartans did not exceed 2000; and tliatIsocrates, in describing the original Dorian con­querors of Laconia as only 2000, has probablyadapted to the description the number of Spartan* inhis own time. (Isocr. Pmath. p. 286, c.) About50 years after that event, in the time of Aristotle,they were scarcely 1000 (Aristot. Pol ii. 6. § 11);and eighty years still later, in the reign of Agis,B. c. 244, their number was reduced to only 700(Plut. Agu, 5.) The number of Helots was verylarge. At the battle of Plataea there were 35.000lfclit-arnied Helots, that is seven for every singleS|«rtan (Herod, ix. 28.) On the population ofLaconia, see Clinton, F. II. vol. ii. p. 407, mi). From B. c. 547 to b. c. 371, the boundaries ofLaconia continued to be the same as we have men­tioned above. But after the overthrow of her supre­macy by the fatal battle of Leuctra, the Spartanswere successively stripped of the dominions they hadacquired at the expense of the Messenians, Arca­dians, and Argires. Epaminondas, by establishingthe independent state of Mcs&enia. confined theSpartans to the country east of Mount Taygetus;and the Arcadian city of Megalopolis, which wasfounded by the same statesman, encroached nponthe Spartan territory in the upper vale of theKurutas. While the Thebans were engaged in theSacred War, the Spartans endeavoured to recoveraotne of their territory whkb they had thus lost; but it was still further circumscribed by Philip, thefather of Alexander the Great, who deprived theSpartans of several districts, which be auigrwd tothe Argives, Arcadians, and Messenians. (Polyb.ix. 28; Pans. iv. 28. § 2.) After the estabuJi-ment of the Achaean League their influence inthe Peloponnesus sank lower and lower. For sshort time they showed unwonted vigour, uodiftheir king Cleotnencs, whose resolution bad givennew life to the state. They defeated the Aehaean.in several battles, and seemed to be regaininga portion at least of their former power, whtothey were checked in their progress by AntigoausDoson, whom the Achaeans called in to their assist­ance, and were at length completely humbled by thrfatal battle of Sellasia, B. c. 221. (Diet, of Biogr.art. CUomena.) Soon afterwards Sparta fell intothe hands of a succession of usurpers; and ofthese Nabis, one of the most sanguinary, was corn-pelled by T. Quinctius Klamininus, to surrender Gy-thiuin and the other maritime towns, which hadsided with the Romans, ami were now severed fnenthe Spartan dominion and placed under the protec­tion of the Achaean League, n. c 195. (Strab. viii.p. 306; Thirlwall, Ilul. of Greece, vol. viii. p. 326.)Tho Spartans were thus confined almost to thevalley in which their Dorian ancestors bad fir»tsettled, and, like them, were surrounded by a numberof hostile places. Seven years afterwards, B. c. IP?,Sparta itself was taken by Philopncmen, and annualto the Achaean League (Plut. Phil. 16 j Liv. xxxviii.32—34); but this step was displeasing to theliomans, who viewed with apprehension the furtherincrease of the Achaean league, and accordingly en­couraged the party at Sparta opposed to the interestsof the Achaeans. Hut the Iioman conquest of Greece,which soon followed, put an end to these disputes,and placed Laconia, together with the rest of Greece,under the immediate government of Rome. Whetherthe I,acedacmonian towns to which Fkunininus hadgranted independence were placed again under tl*dominion of Sparta, is not recorded; but we knowthat Augustus guaranteed to them their indepen-dence, and they are henceforth mentioned under thename of Eleuthero-Lacones. Pausanias aays thesewere originally 24 tonus of the Eleuthcru-Lacooei,and in his time there were still 18, of which thenames were Gythium, Teuthrone, Las, Pyrrhkus,Caenepolis, Oetylus, Leuctra, Thahunne, Alagunia.Gerenia, Aaopus, Acriae, Ooeae, Zarax, EpiduralLimera, Braaiae, Geronthrae, Marios. (I'aus. id. 21.§ 7.) Augustus showed favour to the Spartans aswell as to the Lacedaemonians in general; he gaveto Sparta the Messenian town of Cardamylc (I'sus.iii. 26. § 7); he also annexed to Laconia the Mi»-senian town of Pbarae (l'aus. iv. 30. § 3), andgave to the Lacedaemonians the island of Cytherx.(Dion Cass. liv. 7.) At the end of the fourth century of the Christianera, Laconia was devastated by the froths underAlaric, who took Sparta (Zosim. r. 6). SubsequentlySlavonians settled in the country, and retained p>«-session of it for a long time; but towards tlie end <dthe eighth century, in tlie reign of the em pre-*Irene, the Byzantine court made an effort to recovertheir dominions in Peloponnesus, and finally sur-ceeded in reducing to subjection the Slavonians mthe plains, while those in Laconia who would notsubmit were obliged to take refuge in the fa--lneaee*of Mt. Taygetus. When the Franks became mastersof Laconia in the 13th century, they found upm