OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. lectiug the taxes. And indeed he did not only affront him in otherrespects, but when he gave him the watch-word of the day, towhora it was to be given by his place, he gave him femininewords, and those of a nature very reproachful; and these watch­words he gave out, as having been initiated in the secrets of cer­tain mysteries, which he had been himself the author of. No>-% al­though he had sometimes put on women's clothes, a::d had beenwrapt in some embroidered garments to them belonging, anddone a great many other things, in order to make the companymistake him for a woman ; yet did he, byway of reproach, objectthe like womanish behaviour to Cherea. But when Ch ere a re­ceived the watch-word from him, he had indignation at it, hut'had greater indignation at the delivery of it to others, as beinglaughed at by those that received it; insomuch that his fellow-tribunes made him the subject of their drollery ; for they wouldforetell that he would bring them some of his useful watch-words,when he was about to take the watch-word from Caesar, andwould thereby make him ridiculous ; on which accounts he tookthe courage of assuming certain partners to him, as having justreasons for his indignation against Caius. Now there was onePompedius, a senator, and one who had gone through almost allposts in the government, but otherwise an Kpicurian, and forthat reason loved to lead an inactive life. Now Timidius, anenemy of his, had informed Caius that he had used indecent re Jproaches against him, and he made use of Quintilia 'for a wit­ness to them ; a woman she was much beloved by many that fre­quented the theatre, and particularly by Pompedius, on account ofher great beauty. Now this woman thought it an horrible thingto attest to an accusation that touched the life of her lover, whichwas also a lie. Timidius, however, wanted to have her broughtto the torture. Caius was irritated at this reproach upon hlm,and commanded Cherea, without any delay j to torture t£uintiliafas he used to employ Cherea in such bloody matters, and thosethat required the torture, because he thought he would do it themore barbarously, in order to avoid that imputation of effemina­cy which he had laid upon him. But Quintilia, when she wasbrought to the rack, trod upon the foot of one of her associates,and let him know, that he might be of good courage, and not beafraid of the consequence of her tortures ; for that she would'bear them with magnanimity. Cherea tortured this womanafter a cruel manner; unwillingly indeed) but because hecould not help it. He then brought her, without being inthe least moved at what she had suffered, into the presence ofCains, and that in such a state as was sad to behold ; and Caius,being somewhat affected with the sight of Quintilia> who had herVOL. III. ¥ * body