OCR Output . RECLINE AND PALI/ [eHAP. XMV. de* to the father, who strangles, or starves* or abandonshis new-born infant;. or exposes him in a public place tofind the mercy which he himself had denied. But thQexposition of children was the prevailing and stubbornvice of antiquity; it was sometimes prescribed, oftenpermitted, almost always practised with impunity, bythe nations who never entertained the Roman ideas ofpaternal power; and the dramatic poets, who appeal tothe human heart, represent with indifference a popularcustom which was palliated by the motives of economyand compassion." If the father could subdue his own,feelings, he might escape,, though not the censure, a%feast the chastisement, of the laws : and the Roman emTpire was stained with the blood of infants, till such mur­ders were included, by Valentinian and his colleagues, inthe letter and spirit of the Cornelian law. The lessonsof jurisprudence1 and Christianity had been insufficientto eradicate this inhuman practice, till their gentle in- -fiuence was fortified by the terrors of capital punish­ment/ , . • Experience has proved, that savages are the tyrants ofthe female sex, and that the condition of women is usuallysoftened by the refinements of social life. In the hopeof a robust progeny, Lycurgus had delayed the season ofmarriage; it was fixed by Numa at the tender age oftwelve years, that the Roman husband might educate tohis will a pure and obedient virgin.2 According to the u When the Chremes of Terence' reproaches his wife for not obeying his ordersand exposing their infant, he speaks like a father and a master, and silences the scru­ples of a foolish woman. See Apaloius. (Metamorph. lib. 10. p. 337. edit. Delphin.) * The opinion of tho lawyers, and the discretion of the magistrates, had intro­duced in the time of Tacitus some legal restraints, which might support his contrastof the boni mores of the Germans to the benie leges alibi—that is to say, at Rome,(de Moribus Cernianorsm, o. 19). Tertullian (ad Nationes, lib. 1. c. 15.) refuteshis own charges and those of his brethren, against the heathen jurisprudence.'' y The wise and humane sentence of the civilian Paul, (lib. 2. Sententiarum inPandect, lib. 25. tit. 3. leg. 4.) is represented as a mere moral precept by GerardNoodl, (Opp. torn. 1. in Julius Paullus, p. 567—588. and Arnica Responsio, p.591—606.) who maintains the opinion of Justus Lipsius, (Opp. torn. 2. p. 409. adBelgas, cent. 1. epist. 85.) and as a positive binding law by Bynkershoek, (de Juresccidendi Liberos, Opp. torn. 1. p. 318—340. Curse Secundse, p. 391—427.) Ins> learned but angry controversy the two friends deviated into the opposite extremes.i * Dionys. Hal. lib. 2. p. 92,93. Plutarch, in. Kumat p. 140^ 141. Tetrx^e. xat