OCR Output 2'90 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIlI. amongst their number the seven ships of the Chians,they thought it not safe to trust them. But, having af­terwards manned out others, to the amount of thirty-seven, they drive the enemy along the coast into Pira*.us of the Corinthians: This is a desart harbour, andthe last upon the confines of Epidauria. One (hip, In­deed, which the enemy came up with at sea, the Pelo-ponnesians lost; but all the rest they draw together to astation Within the harbour. Here the Athenians at­tacked them, on the water with their ships, and byland with a party sent purposely on-shore. The attackwas attended with great confusion, and carried on in adisorderly manner. The party of the Athenians, whichattacked from the land, disable the bulk of the squa­dron, and kill the commander, Alcamenes; some alsoof their own people perished in the action. But, whenthe dispute was ended, they posted a sufficient numberof their ships to lie facing those of the enemy; andwith the remainder anchor near a little ifle, on which,as it lay at a small distance, they form ah incampment,and send away to Athens for a reinforcement. In favour of the Pelopohnesians came up, on the dayfollowing, not only the Corinthians, but soon after a num­ber also of others, from the adjacent country, in aidof the squadron; who, perceiving that the preservationof it would be a work of laborious toil on so desart acoast, were sadly perplexed. Some argued vehement­ly for setting the ships on fire; but at length it wasconcluded to draw them ashore, and, incamping withtheir land-forces round them, to guard them from theenemy till some convenient opportunity should offerof getting them away. Agis, also, when informedof their situation, sent to them Thermo, a citizenof Sparta. To the Lacedæmonians the first advice that had beensent was this,—that " the squadron had set sail from the** isthmus for orders had been given Alcamenes bythe -Epbori, that, when this point was executed, he should