OCR Output CHAP. LI I. 485 They re- tory of the Franks was complete and final; Aqui-fore'thT tam was recovered by the arms of Eudes; the ArabsFranks. never resumed the conquest of Gaul, and theywere soon driven beyond the Pyrennees by Charles Marteland his valiant race.k It might have been expected thatthe saviour of Christendom would have been canonized,or at least applauded, by the gratitude of the clergy, whoare indebted to his sword for their present existence.But in the public distress the mayor of the palace hadbeen compelled to apply the riches, or at least the re­venues, of the bishops and abbots, to the relief of thestate and the reward of the soldiers. His merits wereforgotten, his sacrilege alone was remembered, and, inan epistle to a Carlovingian prince, a Gallic synod pre­sumes to declare that his ancestor was damned; that onthe opening of his tomb, the spectators were affrightedby a smell of fire and the aspect of a horrid dragon; andthat a saint of the times was indulged with a pleasantvision of the soul and body of Charles Martel, burning,to all eternity, in the abyss of hell.1Elevation The loss of an army, or a province, in the west-of the Ah- em W0rld, was less painful to the court of Da- bas3ides, t i • i A.D. 746 mascus, than the rise and progress of a domesticcompetitor. Except among the Syrians, thecaliphs of the house of Ommiyah had never been theobjects of the public favour. The life of Mahomet re­corded their perseverance in idolatry and rebellion; theirconversion had been reluctant, their elevation irregularand factious, and their throne was cemented with themost holy and noble blood of Arabia. The best of their k Narbonne, and the rest of Septimania, was recovered by Pepin, the son ofCharles Martel, A. D. 755. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 300.) Thirty-seven years af­terward it was pillaged by a audden inroad of the Arabs, who employed the captivesin the construction of the mosch of Cordova. (De Guignes, Hist, des Huns, torn. 1.p. 354.) 1 This pastoral letter, addressed to Lewis the Germanic, the grandson of Charle­magne, and most probably composed by the pen of the artful Hincmar, is dated inthe year 858, and signed by the bishops of the provinces of Rheims and Rouen.(Baronius, Annul. Eccles. A.D. 741. Fleury, Hist. Eccles.torn. 10. p. 514—516.)Yet Baronius himself, and the French critics, reject with contempt this episcopalfiction.