OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. cise of similar diligence. Such, in truth, may be thefreedom and plenty of a small colony cast on a fruitfulisland. But the colony multiplies, while the space stillcontinues the same; the common rights, the equal in­heritance of mankind, are engrossed by the bold andcrafty; each field and forest is circumscribed by thelandmarks of a jealous master; and it is the peculiarpraise of the Roman jurisprudence, that it asserts theclaim of the first occupant to the wild animals of theearth, the air, and the waters. In the progress of pri­mitive equity to final ipjustice, the steps are silent, theshades are almost imperceptible, and the absolute mono­poly is guarded by positive laws and artificial reason. Theactive insatiate principle of self-love can only supply thearts of life and the wages of industry; and as soon ascivil government and exclusive property have been intro­duced, they become necessary to the existence of thehuman race. Except in the singular institutions of Sparta;the wisest,legislators have disapproved an Agrarian lawas a false and dangerous innovation. Among the Ro­mans, the enormous disproportion of wealth surmount­ed the ideal restraints of a doubtful tradition, and anobsolete statute; a tradition that the poorest follower ofRomulus had been endowed with the perpetual inherit­ance of two jugeraa statute which confined the rich^est citizen to the measure of five hundred jugera, orthree hundred and twelve acres of land. The originalterritory of Rome consisted only of some miles of wopdand meadow along the banks of the Tiber; and domes­tic exchange could add nothing to the national stock.But the goods of an alien or enemy were lawfully ex­posed to the first hostile occupier; the city was enrichedby the profitable trade of war; and the blood of her sonswas the only price that was paid for the Volscian sheep^ 1 The heredium of the first Romans is defined by Varro, (de Re Rustica, lib. i.o. 2. p. 141. o. 10. p. 160, 161. edit. Gesner.) and clouded by Pliny's declamation.(Hist. Natur. 1B. 2.) A just and learned comment is given in the Administration desTerres chra lcs ftomaius. (p. 12—66.) .'■j