OCR Output 66 ISAURrA. ISC A. mountainous, though the capital, Isaura, was inthe south. Strabo, in a somewhat obscure paa-na.se (xii. p. 568), seems to distinguish between'laavpia, the northern part, and 'Itrat/pnc^, thesouthern and less known part, which lie regardsas bel<m<rinff to I.yeaonia. Later writers, too, de­signate by the name Isauria only the northern partof the country, and take no notice of the south,which was to them almost a terra incognita. Theinhabitants of that secluded mountainous region ofA-ia, the Isauri or Isaurica pens, appear to haveIron a kindred race of the PisidUns. Their prin­cipal means of living were derived from plunder andrjpine; from their mountain fastnesses they used todescend into the plains, and to ravage and plunderwherever they could overcome the inhabitants of thevalleys in Cilicia, Phrygia, and l'Lsidia. Thesemarauding habits rendered the Isaurians, who alsot<»-.k pirt in the piracy of thcCilieians, so dantrerousto the neighbouring countries that, in n. r. 78, theRomans sent against them an army under P. Servi-lins, who, after several dangerous campnigas, suc­ceeded in conquering meet of their Btronghulds andreducing them to submission, in consequence ofwhich he received the surname of Isauricus. (Strab.l.e.; Diod. Sic. xviii. 22 ; Zosim. v. 25; Mela, i. 2;Plin. v. 231 Entrop. vi. 3: Liv. Epit. 93; DionCass. xiv. 19; Flor. Hi. 6; Ptol. v. 4. § 12; Oroe.T. 23; Amm. Marc. xiv. 2, xzt. 9.) The Isauriansafter this were quite distinct from the I.ycaonians,for Cicero (ad AtLv. 21; com p. ad Earn, xv. 2)distinguishes between the Forum Lycaonium anilthe Isaurirum. But notwithstanding the severemeasures of Scrvilius, who had destroyed theirstrongholds, and even their capital of Isaura, theysubsequently continued to infest their neighbours,which induced the tctrarch Amyntas to attempttheir extirpation; but he did not succeed, and losthis life in the attempt. Although the glorious vic­tory of Pompey over the pirates hail put an end tosuch practices at sea, the Isaurians. who in themidst of the possessions of Borne maintained theirindependence, continued their predatory excursions,and defied the power of Borne; and the Romans, un­able to priced their subjects against the bold moun­taineers in any other way, endeavoured to checkthem by surrounding their country with a ring offortresses. (Treb. Poll. XXX. Tyr. 25.) In this,however, the Unmans succeeded but imperfectly, forthe Isaurians frequently broke through the sur­rounding line of fortifications; and their successesemboldened them so much that, in the third centuryof our sera, they united themselves with their kins­men, the Cilicians, into one nation. From thattime the inhabitants of the highlands of Cilicia alsoare comprised under the name of Isauri, and thetwo, united, undertook expeditions on a very largescale. The strongest and most flourishing citieswere attacked and plundered by them, and they re­mained the terror of the surrounding nations. Inthe third century, Trebellianus, a chief of the CilicianIsaurians, even assumed the title and dignity ofRoman emperor. The Bomans, indeed, conqueredand put him to death; but were unable to reducethe Isaurians. The emperor Probna, for a time,succeeded in reducing them to submission; but theysoon shook off the yoke. (Vopisc. /'rob. 16; Zosim.i. 69, 70.) To the Greek emperors they were par­ticularly formidable, for whole armies are said tohive been cut to pieces and destroyed by them.(SuiJ. «. r. Bpi'xios and 'HpdxKttOi; I'liilostorg. IlUt. Eccle*. xi. 8.) Once the Isaurians even hadthe honour of giving an emperor to the East in toeperson of Zeno, surnamed the Isaurian; but theywere subsequently much reduced by the emperorAnastosius, so that in the time of Justinian they hadceased to be formidable. (Comp. Gibbon, lli*L ofthe Decline, tfc., chap, xl.) The Isaurians are de­scribed as an ugly race, of low stature, and badlyarmed; in the open field they were bad soldiers, butas hardened mountaineers they were irresistible inwhat is called guerilla warfare. Their country,though for the most part consisting of rngced moun­tains, was not altogether barren, and the vine wascultivated to a considerable extent. (Amm. Marc.xiv. 8.) Traditions originating in the favourite pur­suits of the ancient Isaurians are still current amongthe present inhabitants of the country, and an inte­resting specimen is related in Hamilton's HeeeareheM,vol. ii. p. 331. [L. S.] ISCA, the name of two towns in Britain. Thecriticism of certain difficulties connected with theiridentification is given under Mckiih'M'M. Here itis assumed that one is Exeter, the other Caerleon-on- Usk. 1. IscA = A*j:-etcr, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.§ 30). In the 12th and 15th Itineraries this s|>j*arsas Isca Dumnonioruin, 15 miles from Muriminum.The word Dumnnniorum shows that Itevonehire isthe county in which it is to be sought Name forname, Exeter suggests itself. Nevertheless, Horsleygives Uxela as the Roman name fur Kxeter, andplaced I/ca D. at C'Atse/Wo'. After remarking on! Isaca, that " it is universally sopped to be the riverEre in Devonshire,'' and that "Isacae ostia must,therefore, be Ermouth," he adds, " Isca Dumnonio­ruin has been universally taken for Exeter; I haveplaced it near Chutlbom' and South Petherton, Dearthe borders of Somersetshire" (p. 371). His ob­jections (p. 462) lie in the difficulty of fixing Mu-ridunum (</. r.); but, beyond this, he considershimself free to claim Uxela (9. ».) as Exeter. Forconsidering Isca Dumnoniorum to be Exeter, he seesno better reason than "general opinion and someseeming affinity of names.'' Yet the *• affinity ofnames" has been laid irreat stress on in the case ofIsacae ostia. The Isca of Ptolemy must be about 20or 30 miles north-east of the mouth of the Exe,u onwhich river Exeter stands. This reaches to the Ax."Hence he suggests llchetter as Isca Dumn.; but, as beadmits that that town has a claim to be consideredIscbalis (j. v.), he also admits that some of thelocalities about ffnmjxlen Hill (where there are theremains of a Roman camp), South Ptthrrtim (« herelioman coins liave been foundX and Chuelboro' (n><far from the Axe), have better claims. Hence, in hi*map, Uxela = Exeter, and Isca l>. = ChUtlhuro.Assuming that some, if not all, these difficultiesare explained under Uxkla and Ml nmtsm, thepositive evidence in favour of Exeter is somethingmore than mere opinion and similarity of name. (1) The form Isca is nearer to Ex than Ax, andthat Isaca = Axe is admitted. The i'x- in {.'x-elamay better = Ax. (2) There is no doubt as to the other Isca —Caerleon-on- I'tk. Now, Roger Hoveden, who wrotewhilst the Cornish was a spoken language, state*that the name of Exeter was the same as Uiat ofCaerleon, in British, i. e. Cumriec b civitaa aquae. (3) The statement of Horsley, that "he couljnever hear of any military way leading to or from"Exeter, misleads, lu I'ulnheie (p. 182) we bare a