OCR Output 294 WARS of the JEWS. Book I* laid waste by the means of Antigonus's army, which had takenall things away. By this he moved the army, and attempted toget them off the siege; but Herod went to the captains thatwere under Silo, and to a great many of the soldiers, and beggedof them not to leave him who was sent thither by Caesar, andAntony, and the senate; for that he would take care to havetheir wants supplied that very day. After the making ofwhich entreaty, he went hastily into the country, and broughtthither so great an abundance of necessaries, that he cut off allSilo's pretences; and in order to provide that for the followingdays they should not want supplies, he sent to the people thatwere about Samaria^ which cityhad joined itself tohim),to bringcorn, and wine, and oil, and cattle to Jericho. When Antigonusheard of this, he sent some of his party with orders to hinder,and lay ambushes for these collectors of corn. This commandwas obeyed, and a great multitude of armed men were gatheredtogether about Jericho, and lay upon the mountains, to watchthose that brought the provisions. Yet was Herod not idle, buttook with him ten cohorts, five of them were Romans, and fivewere Jewish cohorts, together with some mercenary troops in­termixed among them, and besides those a few horsemen, andcame to Jericho; and when he came he found the city deserted,but that there were five hundred men, with their wives and chil­dren,who had taken possession of thetopsof the mountains, thesehe took and dismissed them, while the Romans fell upon the restof the city, and plundered it, having found the houses full of allsorts of good things. So the king left a garrison at Jericho, andcame back, and sent the Roman army into those cities whichwere come over to him, to take their winter quarters there, visa.ints Judea, [or Idumea], and Galilee, and Samaria. Antigonusalso by bribes obtained of Silo to let a part of his army be re­ceived at Lydda, as a compliment to Antonius. CHAP. XVI. Herod takes Sepphoru, and subdues the robbers that were in thecaves: be after that avenges himsilf upon Macheras, as uponan enemy of his, and goes to Antony, as he was besiegingSamosata. } 1, QO the Romans lived in plenty of all things, and restedk3 from war. However, Herod did not lie at rest, butseiied upon Idumea, and kept it, with two thousand footmen,and four hundred horsemen; and this he did by sending his bro­ther Joseph thither, that no innovation might be made by Anti­gonus. He dso removed his mother, and all his relations, whohad beer, in Masada, to Samaria, and when he had settled them securely,