OCR Output mr, MESSANA. MESSAXA. iii.ins are mentioned as sending assistance to Dionagainst the younger Dionysius; and after the deathof Dion, they repulsed an attempt of Cnllippus tomake himself master of their city. (Diod. xvi. 9;Plut. Dion, 58.) At a somewhat later period,however, they fell under the yoke of a tyrant namedHippon. from whom they were freed by Timoleon,(n. c. 339), and at the same time detached fromthe alliance of Carthape, to which they had been fora time compelled to adhere. (Diod. xvi. 69; Hut.TimoL 20, 34.) Hut Messana did not lonp enjoy her newly re­covered freedom. Soon after the establishment ofApathocles at Syracuse, that monarch turned hisarms apainst Messana, and, thouph his first attempts,in n.c. 315. were unsuccessful, and he was evencompelled to restore the fortress of Mylae, of whichhe had for a time made himself master, a few yearslater, B.C. 312, he succeeded in establishing hispower at Messana itself. (Diod. xix. 65,102.) Butthe severities which he exercised apainst the partywhich had opposed him completely alienated theminds of the Sfcssanians, and they readily embracedthe opportunity of the defeat of the tyrant atKrnoinus in the following year, b. c. 311, to throwoff his yoke and declare in favour of the Car­thaginian alliance. (Id. xix. 110.) The death ofApathocles, soon after, brought upon the Mes-senians even heavier calamities than his enmity haddone. The numerous bands of mercenary troops,chiefly of Campanian, or at least Oscan, extraction,which the despot had assembled in Sicily, were, afterhis death, compelled by the Syracusans, with thesupport of the Carthaginians, to quit the inland.But, having arrived with that object at Messana,where they were hospitably received by the citizens,and quartered in their houses, they suddenly turnedapainst them, massacred the male inhabitants, madethemselves masters of their wives, houses, and pro­perty, and thus established themselves in undisputedpossession of the city. (Pol. i. 7; Diod. xxi. 18,Exc. H. p. 493; Strab. vi. p. 268.) They now as­sumed the name of Mamertini (Mofi«pT»voi), or"the children of Mars,"* from Mainent, an Oscanname of that deity, which is found also in old Latin.(Diod. /. c.; Varr. L. L. v. 73.) The city, however,continued to be called Messana, thouph they at­tempted to chanpe its name to Mamertina: Cicero,indeed, in several instances calls it "Mamertinacivitas" (Cic. Vtrr. ii. 5, 46, iii. 6, iv. 10, &c.),but much more frequently Messana, thouph the in­habitants were in his time universally called Ma-mertini. The precise period of the occupation ofMessana by the Mamertines is nowhere stated.Pokhins tells us that it occurred not lonp beforethat of Ithepium by the Cam pa man* under Decius,which may be referred to the year 280 u. c, whileit must have taken place some time after the deathof Apathocles in B.C. 289: the year 282 is thatcommonly assigned, but within the above limits thisis meiely conjectural. The Mamertines now rapidly extended their powerover the whole NE. anple of Sicily, and made them­selves masters of several fortresses and towns. Theoccupation of Rhegiuin by the Campanians, undervery similar circumstances, contributed to strengthentheir p-*wtion and they became one of the mostformidable powers in Sicily. 'I he arrival of 1'yrrhusin the island (». c. 278) for a time pave a cheek totheir aggrandisement: they in vain combined withthe Carthaginians to prevent his landing; but, though he defeated their forces in a battle and tookseveral of their fortresses, he did not attack Me*unaitself; and on his return to Italy the Mamertinnsent a larpe force across the straits which attackedthe army of the kinp on its march, and inflicted onhim severe losses. (Plut. /fyrrA. 23,24; Diod. xx:.7. p. 495.) The Mamertines, however, soon founda more formidable enemy in Hieron of Syrarnse.who, shortly after the departure of Pyrrbos fro»Sicily, established himself in the possession of thechief power in that city. His efforts were earlydirected apainst the Mamertines; and after the Callof lihecium, which was taken by the Rinnans inB.C.271, he invaded their territory with a creararmy, reduced the fortress of Mylae, and defeatedthe Mamertines in a battle on the bank* erf" tberiver Lonpanus, with such slaughter that Ussy wereon the point of surrenderinp Messana itself withouta blow; and the city was saved only by tbe inter­vention of a Carthapinian force under Hajmitui.(Pol. i. 8, 9; Diod. xxii. 13. pp. 499. 500.> Theevents which followed are obscurely known tn u».and their chronology is very uncertain; bat theMamertines seem to have found that they «w nolonger able to stand alone apainst the power of Hseron;and, while one party was dis[*osed to throw them­selves into the amis of the Carthaginians. an->*h-rsought protection from the power of Kome. The latterultimately prevailed, and an embassy sent by ths>Mamertines, to invoke tbe alliance of the Honiara*.first gave occasion to the intervention of that p«*>piein the affairs of Sicily, and became tbe origin of lbsFirst Punic War, b. c. 264. (Pol. i. 10; Diod. xxiii.1; Zonar. viii. 8; Oros. iv. 7; Liv. EpiL xvL) Before the arrival of the promised aid fix-m K^cnethe Carthaginian party had again prevailed. ai*i thecitadel was occupied by a Carthaginian garrison;but this was expelled by the Mamertines themseJvvson the arrival of C. Claudius; and soon after theconsul Appius Claudius landed at Messana, and «Wreoff in succession the Carthaginians and Hier-n, wh»had just before concluded an alliance against theMamertines, and laid siege to the city with thencombined forces. (Pol i. 11, 12; Diod. xxiii 1,3.p. 501; Zonar. viii. 8, 9; Dion Cass. Exc. Vat. 50—GO.) Messana was now protected by a Etonian gar­rison, and, during the whole course of the war whwhfollowed, continued to be one of their chief strong-holds and the principal station of their Beets. Tbeimportance of its harbour, as well as its ready can-in unicat ion with Italy, rendered it a point of vitalimportance to the Itomans: and the Mamertines ettbeacontinued steadily faithful or were kept under by Useconstant presence of a Homan force. (PoL i. SI,25, 38, 52; Diod. xxiii. 18. p. 505,xxiv. 1. p. 506;Zonar, viii. 10, 12.) At the close of the war tbeMamertines obtained a renewal of their treaty, andcontinued to enjoy henceforth the nominal prinlegwsof an allied city (foederata cicitat), while they isreality passed under the dominion of Home. (CicVerr. iii. 6.) Even in the time of Cicero w* findthem still retaining this privileged condition; assithough this alone would not ltave suffice*! to protectthem against the exactions of Verrcs, the Mamerttmappear to have adopted the safer policy of »upp»r.^cthe praetor in all his oppressions and cunciliat:nr sumby bribes, to that they are represented by the or»t tas the accomplices, as well a* defender*, of all La»iniquities. (Cic. lb. H. 5, 46, iv. 8t 67, Ac.) M>-ssuna was certainly at this time one of tha> mas*populous and nourishing places m Sicily. Csrsro