OCR Output 432 ROMAN EMPIRE. thousand of the natives might assemble in arms; but thenumber of three hundred and sixty towns is incompatiblewith the ignorance or decay of husbandry;' and a cir­cumference of three leagues will not be justified by theruins of Erbe or Lambesa, the ancient metropolis of thatinland country. As we approach the sea-coast, the well-known cities of Bugiak and Tangier1 define the more cer­tain limits of the Saracen victories. A remnant of tradestill adheres to the commodious harbour of Bugia, which,in a more prosperous age, is said to have contained abouttwenty thousand houses; and the plenty of iron whichis dug from the adjacent mountains might have supplieda braver people with the instruments of defence. Theremote position and venerable antiquity of Tingi, orTangier, have been decorated by the Greek and Arabianfables; but the figurative expressions of the latter, thatthe walls were constructed of brass, and that the roofswere covered with gold and silver, may be interpreted asthe emblems of strength and opulence. The provinceof Mauritania Tingitana, ™ which assumed the name ofthe capital, had been imperfectly discovered and settledby the Romans; the five colonies were confined to a nar­row pale, and the more southern parts were seldom ex­plored except by the agents of luxury, who searched theforests for ivory and the citron-wood," and the shores of 1 See Novairi (apud Otter, p. 118.) Leo Africanus (fol. 81, wjo), who reckonsonly cinque citta e infinite casal; Marmol, (Description de 1'Afrique, torn. 3. p. 33.)and Shaw. (Travels, p. 57. 65—68.) k Leo Africanus, fol. 58. verso, 59. recto. Marmol, torn. 2. p. 415. Shaw,p. 43. 1 Leo African, fol. 52. Marmol, torn. 2. p. 228. m Regio ignobilis, et vix quicquam illustre sortita, parvis oppidis habitatur, parvaflumina emittit, solo quam viris melior, et segnitie gentis obscura. PomponinsMela, 1. 5.3.10. Mela deserves the more credit, since his own Phoenician an­cestors had migrated from Tingitana to Spain. (See, in 2. 6. a passage of thatgeographer so cruelly tortured by Salmasius, Isaac Vossina, and the moat virulentof critics, James Gronovius.) He lived at the time of the final reduction of thatcountry by the emperor Claudius; yet almost thirty years afterward, Pliny (Hist.Nat. 5. 1.) complains of his authors, too lazy to inquire, too proud to confess theirignorance of that wild and remote province. "The foolish fashion of this citron-wood prevailed at Rome among the men, asmuch as the taste for pearls among the women. A round board or table, foor orfive feet in diameter, sold for the price of an estate (latifundii tazatione), eight,ten, or twelve thousand pounds, sterling. (Plin. Hist. Natur. 13. 29.) 1 conceivethat I must not confound the tree citrui with that of the fruit cirrum. But I amnot botanist enough to define the former (it is like the wild cypress) by the vulgar