OCR Output 468 TITUS LIVIUS' 'BO^K V. escaped into the country of Antium, where they were setupon by the inhabitants and cut to pieces. The Tuscans were served in the same manntr, in theterritory of Veii. This people far from commiseratingthe misfortune of a city, settled almost four hundred yeanin their Neighbourhood, oppressed by a strange and BB-heard-of enemy, m;uli; incursions at that very time uponthe Roman territories, and loaded with booty, had laid aplan for attacking Veii, the only asylum, and last resourceof the Roman name. The Roman soldiers had observedhow they were ranging through the country, and driv­ing the booty before their main body, at the same timethat they had their camp not far from Veii. At first, themelancholy state of their own affairs threw a damp ontheir spirits: but it soon gave way to indignation, whichimmediately kindled in their minds the highest resent­ment. 'What!' said they, 'do the Etrurians too, from • whom we turned the arms of the Gauls upon ourselves, • insult us in our adversity?' Nothing could have giventhem greater pleasure than to have attacked them thatmoment; but by the advice of Coedicius, a centurion,whom they had chosen for their leader, they suspendedthe business till night. The name and authority of Camil­las were all that were wanting on this occasion; all therest was conducted with great propriety and good success.The prisoners, who had survived that night's slaughter,conducted them to another body of Etrurians, encampedat the salt-pits, of whom, before they dreamed of theirdanger, they made a still greater slaughter the next night.With this double victory they returned exulting andtriumphant to Veii. CHAP. XLVI. Resolution of a yo'ing Roman. Camillus recalled, andcreated Dictator, heads the army at Veii. N the mean time, the siege of Rome went on but slowly,both sides remaining inactive. Whilst the Gauls weresolely intent upon preventing any one of the enemy toquit the ptace by passing their guards, a young Romanall of a sudden drew on himself the admiration, as wellof the enemy as of his fellow-citizens, There wa' »