OCR Output MELITA. MELITENE. 321 bitual aw there, as well as in the neighbouringisland of Sicily; and one of these, which is bi­lingual, shows that Greek and Punic must havebeen both prevalent at the same period. (Boeckh,Corpus Inter. Gr. 5752—5754.) The former wasprobably the language of the more cultivated classes,io tbe same manner as Italian is at the present day.Ihodorus justly extols the excellence of the portsof Melita, to whit h that island has always been in­debted for its importance. (Diod. t. 12.) The an­cient geographers all mention a city of the samename with the island, but its precise site is nowhereindicated; there is, however, good reason to believethat it was tbe same with that of the old capital ofthe udand, now called Medina (i. e. " the city*'), orCirita Vecchia, situated almost in the centre of thebland; the modern town of La Valletta, which isthe present capital, was not founded till 1566.Cicero speaks of a celebrated temple of Juno ** ona promontory not far from the town" (Cic. Verr.iv. 46); but the expression is too vague to provethat the Utter was situated close to the sea, liketbe modern Valletta. Ptolemy also notices the•anw temple, as well as one of Hercules, evidentlytbe Phoenician deity Melkart. (Ptol. iv. 3. § 37.)The ruins of both these temples are described by Quin-tino, who wrote in 1536, as exiting in his time;but the grounds of identification are not given. Theonly considerable ruins now existing in the islandare thuse on the S. coast, near a place called CasalVrendi, which are described in detail by Barth.{ArdL Zttiung, 1848, Kns. 22, 23.) These areevidently of Phoenician origin, and constructed ofmassive stones, in a very rude style of architecture,bearing much resemblance to the remains calledih* Torre deiGiganti, in the neighbouring island ofGoto. [Gaulos.] Some slight vestiges of build­ings near the port called Marsa Scirocco may per-haps be those of the temple of Hercules; while, ac-cordiog to Fazello and Quintino, those of the templeof Judo were situated in the neighbourhood of theCut* of S. Angela, opposite to the modern city ofValletta. (Quintini JJescript. his. Mtlitae. p. 110,ic Bunnann's The*, vol. xv.; FazelL de Reb. Sic.i. 1. p. 16.) cone or meuta. Ovid terms Melita a fertile island (Fast. iii. 567);sb expression which is certainly ill applied, forthough it was, in ancient as well as modern times,r°I«Uotts *nd flourishing, and probably, therefore,■ ii- well cultivated, the soil is naturally stony«ad barren, and the great want of water precludes■H natural fertility. Cotton, which at the present**7 is extensively cultivated there, was doubtlessthe material of the fine stuffs manufactured in thefclrad; and the excellence of its soft stone as abttjUiog material accounts for the splendour of the■*•»■, extolled by Diodorus (v. 12). Another pe-**b*t production of the island was a breed of smalltop, noticed br Strabo and other authors, though some writers derived these from the Melita in theAdriatic. The breed still exists in Malta (Strab.vi p. 277; Athen. xii. p. 518; Plin. iii. 26. s. 30.)The freedom from venomous reptiles which Maltaenjoys, in common with many other secludedislands, is ascribed by the inhabitants to the mira­culous intervention of St. Paul. (Quintino. /. c. p.117.) [K. H. B.] ME'LITA (MWtw, Scyl. p. 8; Steph. B.: Agat hem.i. 5 ; Plin. iii. 30 , Itin. Anton.; Pent. Tab.; Mt\t-TT}in}, Ptol. ii. 16. (I 14; M*A*to, Const. Porph.de Adm. Imp. 36; Malata, Geogr. Kav.), one ofthe Liburnian group of islands. It was so calledlike its namesake Melita or Malta, from the excel­lence of its honey; and some erroneously haveclaimed for it the honour of being the island onwhich St. Paul was wrecked. (See preceding article.)It is the sam« as the long narrow and hilly islandof Meleda, lying about half-way between Curzolaand Ragusa, remarkable in modern times for thesingular phenomenon of subterranean noises called"Detonazioni di Meleda," the cause of which hasbeen attributed to the region of volcanic activitywhich is supposed to underlie the whole of thiscoast. (Coinp. Daubeny, On Volcanoes, p. 333.)The site of a palace which was built by Agesilausof Cilicia, the father of Oppianus, the author ofthe "Halieutica," when banished to the island inthe time of Septimius Severus, is still shown.(Wilkinson, Dalmatia and Monte-Negro, vol. i.p. 265.) [K. B. J.] MELITAEA, or MELITEIA (MeXtrafa, Strab ,Plin., Steph. B.; MeAfrfto, Polyb.; M«Aer/a,Thuc:Eth. MeAirai*uj, MeAn-eiis), an ancient town ofPhthiotis in Thessaly, situated near the river Kni-peus, at the distance of 10 stadia from the townHellas. (Strab. ix. p. 432.) The inhabitants ofMelitaea affirmed that their town was ancientlycalled Pyrrha, and they showed in the market-placothe tomb of Hellen, the son of Deucalion and Pyrrha,(Strab. I c.) When Brasidas was marching throughThessaly to Macedonia, his Thessalian friends methim at Melitaea in order to escort him (Thuc. iv.76); and we learn from this narrative that thetown was one day's march from Pharsalus, whitherBrasidas proceeded on leaving the former place. Inthe Lamiac war the allies left their baggage at Me­litaea, when they proceeded to attack Leonnalus.(Diod. xviii. 15.) Subsequently Melitaea was inthe hands of the Actoliaus. Philip ut tempt d totake it, but he did not succeed, in consequence ofhis scaling-ladders being too short. (Polyb. v. 97,ix. 18.) Melitaea is also mentioned by Scylux,p. 24; Ephor. ap Steph. B. s. v.; Dicaearch. p. 21;Plin. iv. 9. 8. 16; Ptol. iii. 13. § 46, who erro­neously calls it MfAirapa. Leake identities itwith the ruins of an ancient fortress situated upona lofty hill on the left bank of the Enipeus, atthe foot of which stands the small village ofKeuzlar. (Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 469, seq.) ME'LITE (MfArnj). 1. A lake of Acarnania.[Acarnama, p. 9, b.j 2. A demus in the city of Athens. [Athknak,p. 301, 1..] MELITE'NE (y MfArrW, Ptol. vi. 3. § 3), thename given by Ptolemy to that part of Susianawhich lay along the banks of the Ticris. [V.] MELITE'NE (M«AmjW): Ktk. M*\iti}v6s), acity in the easternmost part of Cappadocia, and thecapital of the district called Melitene. It appearsthat m the time of Strabo (xii. p. 537) neither TOL1L