OCR Output viii THE TRANSLATOR more. With what diffidence does he disclose his design?and with what distrust of his abilities to support withpropriety so great an undertaking? But his fears are aproof of his wisdom; and he promises little, that his read­ers might be agreeably disappointed: So true it is, thata man's modesty is generally in proportion to his judg­ment. This is one reason why Livy attracts our admira­tion whenever we read his works: for, having promisednothing, we soon discover the clearness of his composi­tion; the depth of his penetration; the extent of hisgenius; the fertility of his imagination; and, in fine,numberless beauties, elegancies, and excellencies, pecu­liar to himself, which, in the modesty of his Introduction,we were not taught to expect. What fund of wisdom,what politeness of manners were requisite to depress thatpride, that self-appropriation, so natural to the humanmind, and yet to do justice to his character? If Livy's sincerity could have been possibly stifled, therespect shown him by Augustus, the favour to which hewas elevated, and the estimation he was held in at court,might have corrupted him: yet none of these consider­ations prevented him from doing justice to the characterofPompey, and speaking respectfully of Brutus and Cas-sius, whenever an opportunity offered.* A conduct sogenerous, candid, and disinterested, Cremutius Cordus,according to Tacitus, thought he could never sufficientlypraise.: Such was Livy in the qualities of his heart; and suchwere his personal endowments. And, without doubt,but for such an historian there would have been somethingdefective in the glory, or rather the good fortune of apeople, who by their military and political virtues, raisedthemselves to the highest pitch of terrestrial greatness.This gave rise to the Famous inscription found at Padua,Anno 1413, in the church of St. Justina. Ossa Titi LiviiPatavini unius omnium mortalium judicio digJK, cujusprope invicto calamo, invicti populi Romani res gesttE con-scribcrentur. j/ The end and design of history is to instruct and im-'prove the present, by exhibiting a true picture of past * Tac. Lib. iv. Anna'.