OCR Output NINGTJM. NINUS. 437 to Lacian, indeed (Jupiter Tragaed. § 42), theAegvptians sacrificed to the element of water, notlocally, but universally. Pictorially, the Mile wasrepresented under a round and plump figure, of a•Woe colour, and sometimes with female breasts, indi­cative of its productive and nutritive powers. Onthe base of the throne of Amenophis-Memnon, atThebes, two figures represent the Nile, similar in allother respects, except that one is crowned with lotusto denote the upper courses of the river, the otherwith papyrus to designate the lower. [See Aeoyp-tis, p. 37.] (Rosellini, Mon. del Cult.; Kenrick'sAncient Aegypt, vol. i. pp. 349—463.) [W.B.D.] NINGUM. [Istria.] NIN1VE. [Nilcs.] NINNITACI. [Minaticum.] NINUS (i N?yos or N[«n, Herod i. 193, ii. 150;Ptol. vi 1. § 3; Kiyoi n (to! Ni*«/f, PtoL viii. 21.§ 3; Ninini, Joseph. Ant. Jud ix. 10. § 2; Ninus,Tacit. Ann. xii. 13; Ninive, Amm. Marc, xviii. 7,xxiii. 6: Kth'Htvtos, Steph. B. a. v.), a great city,and far many centuries the capital of ancient Assy­ria. It will be convenient to notice here such ac­cents as we have from the Bible and ancient his­torians, and then to state succinctly the curiousresults of the recent discoveries of Mr. Layard,Colonel Rawlinson, and other modern travellers. L Nineveh is first mentioned in the Bible amongthe eight primeval cities in Genesis (x.ll), and isthere elated to have been founded either by Nimrodhimself, or, according to another reading, by hislieutenant, Assur, the Affffoupaj of Joseph. Ant. Jud.i. 6. § 4, and the Eponymus of Assyria. The latterview is the most agreeable to the construction of theHebrew text. From this period we have no mentionof it in Holy Scripture for more than a thousandyears; and when it is noticed again, on Jonah beingsent thither to preach repentance, it is described asa '• city of three days' journey" (Jonah, iii. 3), andas - that great city wherein are six score thousandpersons, that cannot discern between their righthand and their left hand." (Jonah, iv. 11.) Sub­sequently to this time, it is not referred to by name,except in 2 Kings, xix. 37, and Iiaiah, xxxvi. 37,as the residence of Sennacherib, after his returnfrom the invasion of Judaea; in the prophets Nahumand Zephaniah, who predict its speedy downfal; andin the apocryphal books of Tobit and Judith, thefirmer of whom long lived in the great city. IL The earliest classical mention of Nineveh isby Herodotus, who places it on the Tigris (i. 193,ii. 150), but does not state on which bank it stood;in this be is confirmed by Arrian (11 uL Intl. c. 42)and Strabo, who in one place calls it the metropolisof Syria, i.e. Assyria (ii. p. 84), in another states it tohave been a city more vast than even Babylon, lyingin the plain of Aturia (a dialectical change of namefor A»yria), beyond the Lycus (or Great Zdb) withreference to Arbela (xvi. p. 737). Pliny places iton the cast bank of the Tigris "ad solis occa.sumipectans" (vi. 13. s. 16); Ptolemy, along the Tigris,but without accurate definition of its position (vi. 1.§ 3). The same may be said of the notice in Taci-Ms (Aimnl. xii. 13), and in Ammianus, who calls ita va»t city of Adiabene. On the other hand, Dio-dorus. professing to copy Ctesias, places it on theEuphrates (ii. 3, 7), which is the more remarkable,as a fragment of Nicolaus Dauiascenus, who hasjires^ned a portion of Ctesias, is still extant, inwiii.h Nineveh occupies its correct position on theTigris. (.Frag. U'ut. Craec. vol. iii. p. 858, ed. Muller.) It may be remarked that in much latertimes the name appears to have been applied to morethan one town. Thus Ammianus in one passageseems to think that Hierapolis was the "vetusNinus" (xiv. 8). Philostratus ( Kit. Apoll. Tyan.i. 19) speaks of a Ninus on this side of the Euphra­tes; and Eusebius, in his Chronicon, asserts, that inhis time it was called Nisibis. No doubt much ofthe obscurity in the minds of ancient writers, bothas to its position and the real history of the empireof which it was the capital, arose from the circum­stance that its entire overthrow preceded the ear­liest of the Greek historians by nearly 200 years,and that it does not appear to have been rebuilt atany period of the classical ages. So complete wasits destruction, that, though Xenophon inarchedwithin a few miles of it, he was not aware of its ex­istence, though, in his allusion to the " Median cityof Mespila," he doubtless is describing one of thegreat outworks of the Assyrian capital (Anab. iii. 4.§10); while, with the exception of Arrian, none ofthe historians of the campaigns of Alexander, who,like Xenophon, must have passed it on his way tofight the battle of Arbela, allude to it. That theancients generally believed in its entire destruction,is clear from Pausanias, who classes it with My­cenae, Thebae, and other ruined cities (viii. 33. § 2);from Lucian (Charon, c. 23), and from St ratio(xvi. p. 737). The last, indeed, has on argumentthat Homer, who mentions Thebes in Egypt, andthe wealth of Phoenicia, could not have omittedBabylon, Nineveh, and Ecbatuna, had he ever heardof them (xv. p. 735). But though so early a ruin,the ancients generally had a correct idea of thewonderful greatness of Nineveh, and many passagesare scattered through the classical writers, giving amanifest proof of this belief of the people. ThusStrabo himself, as we have seen, considered Ninevehgreater than Babylon (xvi. p. 737); while Diodorushas a long and exaggerated narrative of the vastextent of Ninus's capital (which, as we stated be­fore, he places incorrectly on the Euphrates, ii.p. 7). Some curious incidental facts are preserved.Thus, the vast mound Semiramis erected as a tombfor her husband Ninus, by the river-side, is almostcertainly the Pyramid at Nimriul, though the re­sults of Mr. Layard's last excavations have notproved that this structure was a tomb. (Diod. ii. 7;comp. with Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p. 128).Again, Amyntas (as quoted by Athenaeus) states,that at the town of Ninus was a high mound, whichwas thrown down by Cyrus when he attacked thecity, that this was traditionally the tomb nf Sarda-napalus, and had a stele on it inscribed with Chal-daic (i. e. Assyrian) letters. (Amynt. Frogin p.136, ed. Muller; cf. also Polyaen. vii. 25.) Normust we omit the presence of what has been held byall numismatists to be a traditional representation ofthis celebrated tomb on the Tetradrachms of Anti-ochus VIII., king of Syria, which were struck atTarsus, and on the imperial coins of Anchialus(both places connected with the name of Sarda-napalus). Again we have the legend of Diodorus,that the Assyrians sent assistance to the Trojansagainst the Greeks (ii. 22; cf. Plat. I*g. p. 296,ed. Bckker), — the "busta Nini" of Ovid (Me-tam. iv. 88), though referred by him wrongly toBabylon,— and the occurrence, in several of thepoets, of the name of Assnracus (now known throughColonel Kawliuson's interpretations to be a Graecizedform of the genuine Assyrian Assaiac, the Arrdpox F F 3