OCR Output CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 367 ~ T" of the wounded Romans as he could, and marched straitto Rome. CHAP. XL. Tempanius returns to Rome, and examined by the Tribunes. J. HE news of this unfortunate battte and desertion ofthe camp had already reached the city. The loss ofthe cavalry was particularly deplored by the public ingeneral, as well as their connections. The consul Fabius,to prevent surprise, the whole city being alarmed., post­ed troops At the gates. When the cavalry appeared ata distance the consternation was still greater, as beinguncertain who they were. The moment it was discover­ed that these troops were the horse returned safe andvictorious, their fear was converted into such an excessof joy, that the acclamations of those who congratulatedthem, were heard over all the city: and those families,that but a little before were in the deepest concern, cry­ing out,.that their friends were gone, ran- out to thestreets in transports, and the mothers and wives, quiteout of their senses, forgetting decency in their presentextasy, ran out to meet the troops, each embracing herown, with such expressions of tenderness and tears ofjoy, as almost approached distraction The tribunes- of the people, who had impeached M.-Posthumius and T. Quinctius, on account of the battleofVeii, lost by then- means, thought this a noble op­portunity, in the present resentment of the peopleagainst Sempronius, for reviving tlie odium against them.Wherefore, having called an assembly, they bawled outwith great warmth, thai because the commonwealth hadbeen betrayed by its generals at Veii, and their faulthad remained unpunished, the army had again been be­trayed by the consul in the country of the Volsci, thebravest of ihe cavalry given up to destruction, and thecamp shamefully abandoned. One of the tribunes, C.Icilius, ordered the knight Tempanius to be cited beforethem, and interrogated him as follows: Sextus Tempanius, I ask you, 'Whether you think• that the consul Sempronius chose a proper time to