OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 49 has been computed that one hundred thousand Romansubjects were extirpated in the Samaritan war," whichconverted the once fruitful province into a desolate andsmoking wilderness. But in the creed of Justinian,the guilt of murder could not be applied to the slaugh­ter of unbelievers; and he piously laboured to establishwith fire and sword the unity of the Christian faith/Hi s ortho- With these sentiments, it was incumbent onito*?- him, at least, to be always in the right. In thefirst years of his administration, he signalized his zeal asthe disciple and patron of orthodoxy: the reconciliationof the Greeks and Latins established the tome of St. Leoas the creed of the emperor and the empire; the Nesto-rians and Eutychians were exposed, on either side, tothe double edge, of persecution; and the four synods ofNice, Constantinople, Ephesus, and Chalcedon, wereratified by the code of a Catholic lawgiver.2 But whileJustinian strove to maintain the uniformity of faith andworship, his wife Theodora, whose vices were not in­compatible with devotion, had listened to the Monophy-site teachers; and the open or clandestine enemies ofthe church revived and multiplied at the smile of theirgracious patroness. The capital, the palace, the nuptialbed, were torn by spiritual discord: yet so doubtfulwas the sincerity of the royal consorts, that their seem­ing disagreement was imputed by many to a secret andmischievous confederacy against the religion and hap­piness of their people." The famous dispute of the * Procop. Anecdot. c. 11. Theophan. Chron. p. 152. John Malala, Chron. torn-2. p. 62. I remember an observation, half philosophical, half superstitious, thatthe province which had been ruined by the bigotry of Justinian, was the samethrough which the Mahometans penetrated into the empire. 1 The expression of Procopius is remarkable: ou yap ot I)OXII ifwo; adfinrotv itvaf,uf j* ftx Tuf OUTOU Jo£»; °l TiXit/r-wrfif Tvxptti WTi;. Anecdot. c. 13. 1 See the Chronicle of Victor, p. 328, and the original evidence of the laws ofJustinian. During the first years ofhis reign, Baronius himself is in extreme goodI.n int.in- with the emperor, who courted the popes, till he got them into' his power. a Procopius, Anecdot. c. 13. Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 10. If the ecclesiastical neverread the sacred historian, their common suspicion proves at least the genera]hatred. VOL. VI. E