OCR Output 3o8 - NOTES ON THE a hoi se? I answer, that a certain dæmoniacal power of the orderof Saturn ib signified by this mutation. For ancient theologtflscalled the processions of any divinity to the lad of things, ac­cording to different orders and degrees, mutations. So that thefable, by asserting that Chiron was the son of Caturn by one ofthe nymphs of the ocean, signifies that a Saturnian dæmon and anymph co-operated with the parents of Chiron, by a certain na­tural sympathy, in begetting him. Page 308. The judgment of Parti.] The fable here alludedto is thus beautifully explained by the philosopher Sallust, in histreatise De Diis et Mundo, cap. 4. "It is said that Discord, ata banquet of the gods, threw a golden apple, and that a disputeabout it arising among* the goddesses, they were sent by Jupiterto take the judgment of Paris, who, charmed with the beautyof Venus, gave her the apple in preference to the rest. In thisfable, the banquet denotes the supermundane powers of thegods; and on this account they subsist in conjunction with eachother; but the golden apple denotes the world, which, on ac­count of its composition from contrary natures, is not improperlysaid to be thrown by Discord, or Strife. But again, since dif­ferent gists are imparted to the world by different gods, theyappear to contest with each other for the apple. And a foulliving according to fense (for this is Paris), not perceiving otherpowers in the universe, asserts that the contended apple subsistsalone through the beauty of Venus." Page 308. Dragging the three-mouthed dog from Hadcs.~\ Bya dog the ancients signified the discriminating and at the sametime reproving power of the souL For of this power the sagacityand barling of a dog are images. And as its energies are triple,(for it detects and reproves the fallacies of the senses, imagination,and opinion), these are represented by the three heads of Cer­berus. The great Hercules therefore drew this dog from Hade*up to the regions of day; viz. he liberated this power of hisfoul from its residence in the dark profundities of a material 3 nature, i