OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 193 new doctrine of submission to the senate ; and whatever clemencywas affected by that politic assembly, they dreaded a flow revenge,coloured by the name of discipline, and justified by fair pretencesof the public good. But their fate was still in their own hands,and if they had courage to despise the vain terrors of an impotentrepublic, it was easy to convince the world, that those who weremasters of the arms, were masters of the authority of the state. When the senate elected two prinees, it is probable that, besides Massacre ofthe declared reason of providing for the various emergencies of Baibinu«.peace and war, they were actuated by the secret desire of weakenr-ing by division the despotism of the supreme magistrate. Theirpolicy was effectual, but it proved fatal both to their emperors andto themselves. The jealousy of power was soon exasperated by thedifference of character. Maximus despised Balbinus as a luxuriousnoble, and was in his turn disdained by his colleague as an obseuresoldier. Their silent discord was understood rather than seen 41;but the mutual consciousness prevented them from uniting in anyvigorous measures of defence against their common enemies of thePraetorian camp. The whole city was employed in the Capkoline A D t}Sgames* ami the emperors were left almost alone in the palace. On July «5«a sudden they were alarmed by the approach of a troop of desperateafiaflins. Ignorant of each other's situation or designs, for they al­ready occupied very distant apartments, afraid to give or to receiveassistance, they wasted the important moments in idle debates andfruitless recriminations. The arrival of the guards put an end tothe vain strife. They seized on these emperors of the senate, forsuch they called them with malicious contempt, stripped rhem oftheir garments, and dragged them in insolent triumph through thestreets of Rome, with a design of inflicting a slow and cruel deathon these unfortunate princes. The fear of a rescue from the faith­ful-Germans of the Imperial guards, shortened their tortures, and Vol. I. C c their