OCR Output 246 ROMAN EMPIRE. and as often as the bell was rung, or the standard8erected, the gates of the city poured forth a numerousand intrepid band, whose zeal in their own cause wassoon guided by the use and discipline of arms. Atthe foot of these popular ramparts, the pride of theCaesars was overthrown; and the invincible genius ofliberty prevailed over the two Frederics, the greatestprinces of the middle age: the first, superior perhapsin military prowess; the second, who undoubtedly ex­celled in the softer accomplishments of peace andlearning. Ambitious of restoring the honours of the pur- A.D. 1152 pie, Frederic I. invaded the republic of Lorn--bardy, with the arts of a statesman, the valourof a soldier, and the cruelty of a tyrant. The recentdiscovery of the Pandects had renewed a science mostfavourable to despotism; and his venal advocates pro­claimed the emperor the absolute master of the lives andproperties of his subjects. His royal prerogatives, in aless odious sense, were acknowledged in the diet ofRoncaglia; and the revenue of Italy was fixed at thirtythousand pounds of silver,11 which were multiplied toan indefinite demand, by the rapine of the fiscal officers.The obstinate cities were reduced by the terror or forceof his arms; his captives were delivered to the execu­tioner, or shot from his military engines; and, after thesiege and surrender of Milan, the buildings of thatstately capital were rased to the ground; three hundredhostages were sent into Germany, and the inhabitantswere dispersed in four villages, under the yoke of theinflexible conqueror.' But Milan soon rose from herashes; and the league of Lombardy was cemented by c The Lombards invented and used the cuneinm, a standard planted on a car orwaggon, drawn by a team of oxen. (Ducange, torn. 2. p. 194, 195. Muratori,Antiquitat. torn. X. dis. 36. p. 489 — 493.) •• Gunther Ligurinus, lib. 8. 584, et seq. apud Schmidt, torn. S. p. 399. 1 Solus imperator faciem suam firmavit ut petrarn. (Bucard. de Excidio Mcdio-lani, Script , Ital. torn. 6. p. 917.) This volume of Muratori contains tbe originalsof the history of Frederic I. which must be compared with due regard to the cir­cumstances and prejudices of each German or Lombard writer.