OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 23 on both sides were engaged; but night coming on, theyseparated, without any advantage being gained on eitherside. They then hastily, before it grew dark, fortifiedtheir camps, at a very little distance from each other.Next day, as soon as light appeared, Marcellus led outhis forces to the field; nor did Hannibal decline thecontest, but in a long speech exhorted his men to'remember Thrasymenus and Cannae, and to crush thepresumption of the foe, who pressed so closely ontheir steps; not suffering them either to march or en­camp in quiet, or even to breathe, or look about them. -Every day the rising sun and the Roman army ap­peared together on the plains. But if the enemy shouldonce be compelled to quit the field, especially withsome loss of blood, they would afterwards conduc.ttheir operations with less turbulence and violence.'Irritated by such expressions, and at the same timevexed at being continually harassed, on quitting theircamp they began the fight with great fury. The battlewas maintained for more than two hours; then, on theRoman side, the right wing and the chosen band, calledextraordinaries, began to give ground; on observingwhich Marcellus brought up the eighteenth legion tothe front. But, while the others were retiring in con­fusion, and these advancing with but little alacrityinto their place, the whole line was disordered, and ina little time totally broken: at last, fear getting thebetter of their shame, they fairly turned their backs.In this battle, and the flight which followed, there fellno less than two thousand seven hundred of the Ro­mans and allies; among these four Roman centu­rions, and two military tribunes, Marcus Licinius andMarcus Fulvius. Four military standards were lostby the wing which first fled, and two by the legionswhich advanced in the place of the flying allies. 13. After the army had retired into the camp, Mar­cellus reprimanded them in terms so harsh and bitter,that they felt more from the discourse of their incensedcommander, than from all they had suffered in the un­successful fight through the whole day. He said to