OCR Output I94 T H £ H I S T O R Y B o o Kthat time, the mof t powerful in Etruria. This, aC.___.^_f firft, ftung the Veientians with grief and indignation*Y.R. ^^(,. afterwards, they formed a defign, fuggefted by theB.C. 476. prefent circumftances, of enfnaring, by a ftratagem,their enemy, elated with fuccefs; and they even ob.ferved, with plealure, the confidence of the Fabiidaily increafing, from a fcries of fuccefsful attempts:in pursuance of this defign, cattle were frequentlydriven in the way of the plundering parties, as if theyhad come there by chance j the fields were delertedby the flight of the peafants, and the bodies of troops,fent to repel the invaders, retreated with pretended,oftener than real, fear. The Fabii had now con­tracted fuch a contempt of the enemy, that theythought their own arms invincible, and not to bewithftood in any place, or on any occafion. Thispreemption carried them fo far, that on feeing, from(premera, fomc cattle at a diftance, though a longtiraci: of country lay between, yet as but few of the ene­my's troops appeared, they ran down to feize them,and prefied forward with fuch carelefs hafte, as topafs by the enemy's troops, who lay in ambufh, oneach fide of the very road, through which theymarched, without difcovering them: they then dif-perfed themlelves on all fides to collect the cattle,which ran up and down, as WES natural on beingtightened; when, fuddenly, the enemy rofe fromtheir concealments, and appeared not only in front,but on every fide of them. The lhout, which wascarried entirely round, firft ftruck them with terror,and, in a little time, they were affailed by weaponsoaall fides. As the Etrurians clofed in upon them,they were obliged, hemmed in, as they were, by onecontinued line of troops, to contract the circle whichthey had formed, into a narrower compafs; whichcircumftance fhewed plainly, both the fmallnefs oftheir number, and the great fuperiority of the Etru­rians, whole ranks were multiplied as the fpace grewnarrower. They then changed .their method of .fighting,