OCR Output CHAP. 57. ROMAN IllSTORY. . 393 tion, the senate, as the last resource in cases of imminentdanger, immediately ordered a dictator to be named; acircumstance, which, it is said, greatly oflended Juliusand Cornelius, and produced very warm disputes withthe senate; and when the principal of that order com­plained that the military tribunes refused to subject them­selves to the authority of the senate, and at last had re­course to the tribunes of the people, alledging they hadprecedents, where, in similar cases, consuls had beenover-ruled by the authority of the tribunes. The tri­bunes, far from being dissatisfied with this misunder­standing among the fathers, told them that it was ridi­culous to expect any assistance from them, wjiom theydid .not respect as citizens, nor regard as men. That ifever the honours and government of the state should becommon to both orders, they should soon be convinced,that the decrees of the senate should not become voidthrough the insolence of any magistrate whatever. Inthe mean time, the Patricians, who seemed amenable to-ueither laws nor Magistrates, might exercise the authori­ty of tribunes for themselves. CHAP. LVII. * f A Dictator created, who dispels the storm at Antium. i HIS dispute had engrossed the public attention at amost unseasonable conjuncture,.when they had so greata war upon their hands, whilst Julius and Cornelius hadIong held forth, in alternate harangues, the mjustice ofwresting from them the honours the people had bestow­ed on theni, as they were sufficiently qualified them­selves for doing their duty as generals, and conductingthe war; when Ahala Servilius rose up, and represented.That he had long been silent, not because he was at aloss how to act ,as the interests of a good citizen were* never separated from those of the public, but bi^-ausehe would have wished that his colleagues had volun­tarily submitted to the authority of the senate, ratherthan to have suffered them to apply 10 the power of thetribunes to compel them. That even then, did the si­tuation of affairs permit, he would most cheerfully give