OCR Output OF THE UOMAN EMPIRE. 481 under the standard of Eugenius. These troops, who chap.were exhorted to convince the world that they could XXIILsubvert, as well as defend, the throne of an usurper,consisted of the Jovian, the Herculean, and the Au­gustan, legions; of the Nervian auxiliaries; of thesoldiers, who displayed in their banners the symbolof a lion, and of the troops which were distinguishedby the auspicious names of Fortunate and Invincible.Yet such was the smallness of their establishments,or the difficulty of recruiting, that these seven bands,of high dignity and reputation in the service of Rome,amounted to no more than five thousand effectivemen. The fleet of galleys and transports sailed intempestuous weather from the port of Pisa, in Tus­cany, and steered their course to the little island ofCapraria; which had borrowed that name from thewild goats, its original inhabitants. The leader, whoappeared confident of victory, avoided the dangerousrocks of Corsica, coasted along the eastern side ofSardinia, and secured his ships against the violenceof the south wind, by casting anchor in the safe andcapacious harbour of Cagliari, at the distance of onehundred and forty miles from the African shores *. Gildo was prepared to resist the invasion with all Defeat andthe forces of Africa. By the liberality of his gifts oudo,and promises, he endeavoured to secure the doubtful A" D* 398,allegiance of the Roman soldiers, whilst he attractedto his standard the distant tribes of Gaetulia and^Ethiopia. He proudly reviewed an army of seventythousand men, and boasted, with the rash presump­tion which is the forerunner of disgrace, that hisnumerous cavalry would trample under their horses'feet the troops of Mascezel, and involve, in a cloudof burning sand, the natives of the cold regions of • Here the first book of the Gildonic. war is terminated. The rest of Cjau-dian's poem has been lost; and we are ignorant hott,'or where, the army madegood their landing in Africa. VOL. II. I I