OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 239 7. While the Romans were employed in these deli­berations and preparatory measures, the siege of Sa-guntum was prosecuted with the utmost vigor. Thiscity, by far the most wealthy of any beyond the Iberus,stood at the distance of about a mile from the sea: theinhabitants are said to have come originally from theisland Zacynthus, and to have been joined by some ofthe Rutulian race from Ardea. They had grown up,in a very short time, to this high degree of opulence,by means of a profitable commerce, both by sea andland, aided by the increase of their numbers, and theirreligious observance of compacts, which they carriedso far as to maintain the faith of all engagements in­violate, even should they tend to their own destruction.Hannibal marched into their territory in a hostile man­ner, and, after laying all the country waste, attackedtheir city on three different sides. There was an angleof the wall, which stretched down into a vale, morelevel and open than the rest of the ground round theplace: against this he resolved to carry on his ap­proaches, by means of which the battering-ram mightbe advanced up to the walls. But although the groundat some distance was commodious enough for the ma­nagement of his machines, yet, when the works cameto be applied to the purpose intended, it was found tobe no way favorable to the design ; for it was over­looked by a very large tower; and, as in that partdanger was apprehended, the wall had been raised to aheight beyond that-of the rest. Besides, as the great­est share of fatigue and danger was expected there, itwas defended with the greater vigor by a band ofchosen young men. These, at first with missile wea­pons, kept the enemy at a distance, nor suffered themto carry on any of their works in safety. In a littletime they not only annoyed them from the tower andthe walls, but had the courage to sally out on theworks and posts of the enemy; in which tumultuaryengagements the Saguntines generally suffered not agreater loss of men than the Carthaginians. But Han­nibal himself happening^ as he approached the wall