OCR Output 40G THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. Between the fall of the Heraclian and the rise of "X-T , the Isaurian dynasty, a short interval of six years is a"dPP7iT' divided into three reigns. Bardanes, or Philippicus,December.' was hailed at Constantinople as a hero who had de­livered his country from a tyrant; and he might tastesome moments of happiness in the first transports ofsincere and universal joy. Justinian had left behindan ample treasure, the fruit of cruelty and rapine:but this useful fund was soon and idly dissipated byhis successor. On the festival of his birth-day, Philip­picus entertained the multitude with the games ofthe hippodrome; from thence he paraded throughthe streets, with a thousand banners and a thousandtrumpets; refreshed himself in the baths of Zeuxip-pus; and, returning to the palace, entertained hisnobles with a sumptuous banquet. At the meridianhour he withdrew to his chamber, intoxicated withflattery and wine, and forgetful that his example hadmade every subject ambitious, and that every ambi­tious subject was his secret enemy. Some bold con­spirators introduced themselves, in the disorder of thefeast; and the slumbering monarch was surprised,bound, blinded, and deposed, before he was sensible ofAnastasius ^is danger. Yet the traitors were deprived of theirH- A-D- reward, and the free voice of the senate and people4th.' promoted Artemius from the office of secretary to thatof emperor: he assumed the title of Anastasius theSecond, and displayed, in a short and troubled reign,the virtues both of peace and war. But after the ex­tinction of the Imperial line, the rule of obediencewas violated, and every change diffused the seeds ofnew revolutions. In a mutiny of the fleet, an obscure presses of one of the consequences of such an event. He observes, that "theArabian fleet might have sailed, without a naval combat, into the mouth of theThames; and perhaps the interpretation of the Koran would now be taught in theschools of Oxford, and her pulpits might demonstrate, to a circumcised people, thesanctity and truth of the revelation of Mahomet." I return from this digression to the transactions at Constantinople.—Ed.