OCR Output 380 MUZIRIS. MYCENAE. tome i. p. 349); as indeed he maintains, that someof the maritime towns of the coast of lleiljaz andYemen date more than 400 or 500 rears from theirfoundation, and that the towns whose walls wereonce washed by the waters of the gulf, and whichowed their existence to their vicinity to the sea, havedisappeared since its retirement, with the exceptionof those whose soil was sufficiently fertile to maintaintheir inhabitants. In a sandy and arid country thesewere necessarily few, so that there are not more thansix or seven that can be clearly identified with ancientsites. Among these Mat a still exists under its an­cient name unchanged (lb. pp. 238, 239, 284) atthe required distance from the Straits of Bab-eUMandeb, viz. 300 stadia, reckoning MX) stadia to adegree. (lb. pp. 2G9, 270.) Vincent makes itshort of 40 miles. (1'eriplus, p. 319.) In theiniddle ages when the sea had already retired fromMusa, another town named Mosek or Mausldj wasbuilt as a seaport in its stead, which seems to haveusurped the name of the more ancient town, and toliave been mistaken for it by some geographers. ThisMosek still exists, in its turn abandoned by the sea;but about 25' north of the true position of Mtua.(lb. p. 270.) "The mart of Yemen at the presentday is Mokha. . . . Twenty miles inland fromMokha Niebuhr discovered a Mvosa still existing,which he with great probability supposes to be theancient mart, now carried inland to this distance bythe recession of the coast." (Vincent, I. c. p. 315.)There is a circumstance mentioned by Ilrucc of theroadstead of Mokha. which coincides with a state­ment cited from Arrian with regard to Muza. BruceBays that '' the cables do not rub, because the bottomis sand, while it is coral in almost every other port."(lb. p. 313. n. 142.) Moorn itself Xicbuhr found tobe 6J hours = 4.J German miles, due east of Mokha,at the commencement of the mountain country, theintervening space being extremely dry and thinlypeopled. It is an ordinary village, badly built, onlyrecommended by its water, which is drunk by thewealthier inhabitants of Mokha. ( Vtryage en Arahie,tome i. pp. 296, 297; Uencriptiun de fArable,pp. 194, 195.) [G. W.] MUZ1KIS (Mouf.pft, reript. M. F.rythr. c. 54,p. 297, ap. Geogr. Oraec. Mm. ed. Mullcr,|1855), aport on the west coast of llindostan, situated betweenTyndis and Nelrynda, and at the distance of 500stadia from cither, where, according to the author ofthe Periplus, ships came from Ariaca and Greece(that is, Alexandria). Ptolemy calls it an empo­rium (vii. 1. § 8), and places it in I.imyrica. Therecan be little doubt that it is the place which is nowcalled Mangnlorc, and which is still a considerableport. [V.] in' CALF. (MuKaAn), the westernmost branch ofAlt. Mcsogis' in Lydia; it forms a high ridge andterminates in a promontory called Trogylium, nowcape & Maria. It runs out into the sea just oppo­site the island of Samos, from u hic-li it is separatedonly by a narrow channel seven stadia in breadth. Itwas in this channel, and on the mainland at the footof Mount Mycale, that the Persians were defeated,in B. c. 479. It is probable that at the foot ofMount Mycale there was a town called Mycale orMycallessus, for Stcphanus Ilyz. (*. v.) and Scylax(p. 37) speak of a town of Mycale in (,'aria orLydia. The whole range of .Mount Mycale nowbears the name of Sunaum. (Horn. Ii ii. 869;Herod, i. 148, vii. 80, ix. 96; Thuc. i. 14, 89;viii. 79 ; Diod. ix. 34; Paus. v. 7. § 3, vii. 4. § 1; Strab. xiii. pp. G21,629; PtoL v. 2. § 13; Agathem.p. 3.) [L.S.] MYCALESSUS (MoraA^rail: Etk. MuiraAsW-trioj), an ancient town of Boeotia, mentioned byHomer. (//. ii. 498, Hymn. ApolL 224.) It wassaid to have been so called, because the cow, whuhwas guiding Cadmus and his comraies to Thebes,lowed (i',uo>c7JjaTo) iD this place. (Paus. ix. 19.§4.) In b.c. 413, some Thracians, whom tinAthenians were sending home to their own country,were landed on tbe Euripus, and surprised Myca-lessus. They not only sacked the town, but put allthe inhabitants to the sword, not sparing even tbewomen and children. Thueydides says that thiswas one of the greatest calamities that had rrrrbefallen any city. (Thuc. vii. 29 ; Paus. L 23. § 3.)Strabo (ix. p. 404) calls Mycalessus a village inthe territory of Tanagra, and places it upon theroad from Thebes to Chaleis. In the time of P»n-sanias it had ceased to exist; and this writer tawthe ruins of Harma and Mycalessus on his road toChaleis. (Paus. ix. 19. § 4.) Pausanias meutiuosa temple of Demeter Mycalessia, standing is tbeterritory of the city upon the sea-coast, and situatedto the right of the Kuripus, by which be evidentlymeant south of the strait. The only other indicationof the position of Mycalessus is the statement ofThucydides (I.e.), that it was 16 stadia distantfrom the Hermaeum, which was on tbe sea-shorenear the Euripus. It is evident from these account*,that .Mycalessus stood near the Euripus; anil Leak*places it, with great probability, upun the heightimmediately above the southern bay of Kgrlptx,where the mined walls of an ancient city still re­main. (Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp. 249, ssvf^2G4.) It is true, as Leake remarks, that this posi­tion does not agree with the statement of Strabo,that Mycalessus was on the road from Thebes toChaleis, since the above-mentioned ruins are nearlytwo miles to the right of that road; but Strabowrites loosely of places which he had never icro,Mycalessus is also mentioned in Strab. ix. pp. 405,410; Paus. iv. 7. a. 12. MYCE'NAE, a town in Crete, the foundation ofwhich was attributed by an historian of tbe Augustanage (Veil. Paterc. i. 1) to Agamemnon. Harduin (ad Plln. iv. 12) proposed to readMycenae for MmiNA, which is mentioned as a cityof Crete in the text of Pliny (L c). Siebw (Kritr,vol. ii. p. 280) believed that he had discovered lbsremains of this city at a place called Maca atMaiit, on the river Armyro. (Hock, Kreia, vol i.p. 435.) [E.B.J.] MYCE'XAE, sometimes MYCE'XE (MVarMu:Mo*r^»T7,Hom.y/.iv.52: FAh. MuJrnyoiof, MycenaeusMycenensis: Kharcatl), one of the most ancienttowns in Greece, and celebrated as the residence \4Agamemnon. It is situated at the north-eastern ex­tremity of the plain of Argos upon a nigged height,which is shut in by two commanding summits of U>«range of mountains which border this side of tbeArgeian plain. From its retired position it is de­scribed by Homer (Ud. iii. 263) as situated in a rv-cess (u>vx$) of the Argeian land, which is supposedby some modern writers to be the origin of the name.The ancients, however, derived the name from aaeponymous heroine Mycene, daughter of lnachus, orfrom the word p.wtnt. for which various reasons vnr*assigned. (Paus. ii. 17. § 3; Strph. B. #. r.) lbsposition was one of great important*. In the ir%zplace it commanded the upper jart of the great Ar­