OCR Output C. VI.] LUCILIUS DASSUS. 319 be afraid of taking it into their hands. Yet after all thispains in getting, it is only valuable on account of one virtueit hath, that if it be only brought to the sick persons, itquickly drives away those called demons, which are no otherthan the spirits of the wicked that enter into men that arealive, and kill them, unless they can obtain some help againstthem. Here are also fountains of hot water that flow outof this place, which have a very different taste one from theother; for some of them are bitter and others of them areplainly sweet. Here also arc many eruptions of cold waters,and this not only in the places that lie lower, and have theirfountains near one another; but, what is still more wonder足ful, here is to be seen a certain cave hard by, whose cavityis not deep, but it is covered over by a rock that is promi足nent : above this rock there stand up two [hills or] breasts,as it were, but a little distant one from another; the one ofwhich sends out a fountain that is very cold, and the othersends out one that is very hot; which waters, when they aremingled together, compose a most pleasant bath: they aremedicinal, indeed, for other maladies, but especially good forstrengthening the nerves. This place has in it also mines ofsulphur and alum. 4. Now when Bassus had taken a full view of this place,he resolved to besiege it, by filling up the valley that lay onthe east side: so he fell hard to work, and took great painsto raise his banks as soon as possible, and by that means torender the siege easy. As for the Jews that were caught inthat place, they separated themselves from the strangers thatwere with them, and they forced those strangers, as an other足wise useless multitude, to stay in the lower part of the city,and undergo the principal dangers, while they themselvesseized on the upper citadel, and held it, and this both on ac足count of its strength and to provide for their own safety.They also supposed they might obtain their pardon, in casethey should [at last] surrender the citadel. However, theywere willing to make trial in the first place whether the hopesthey had of avoiding a siege would come to any thing ; withwhich intention they made sallies every day, and fought with