OCR Output 200 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. with the Servian organization they selected the cavalry fromthe wealthiest, and the light-armed from the poorest, of thoseliable to serve, they arranged the middle class, the properinfantry of the line, no longer according to property butaccording to duration of service, in the three divisions of has-tati, principes, and triarii. They had, moreover, long agobrought the Italian allies to take part to a very great extentin war-service; but in their case too, just as among theRoman burgesses, military duty was chiefly imposed on thepropertied classes. Nevertheless the Roman military systemdown to the time of Marius rested in the main on that pri­mitive organization of the civic militia. But it was no longersuited for the altered circumstances of the state. The betterclasses of society kept aloof more and more from servicein the army, and the Boman and Italic middle class ingeneral was disappearing; while on the other hand the con­siderable military resources of the extra-Italian allies and sub­jects had become available, and the Italian proletariate also,properly applied, afforded at least a very useful material formilitary objects. The burgess-cavalry (ii. 320), which wasmeant to be formed from the class of the wealthy, had prac­tically given up service in the field even before the time ofMarius. It is last mentioned as an actual corps (TarmSe in the140. Spanish campaign of 614, when it drove the general to despairby its insolent arrogance and its insubordination, and a warbroke out between the troopers and the general waged on bothsides with equal want of principle. In the Jugurthine war itcontinues to appear merely as a sort of guard of honour forthe general and foreign princes ; thenceforth it wholly disap­pears. In like manner the filling up of the complementof the legions with properly qualified persons bound to serveproved in the ordinary course of things difficult; so that ex­ertions, such as were necesssary after the battle of Arausio,would have been in all probability really impracticable withthe retention of the existing rules as to the obligation ofservice. On the other hand even before the time of Marius,especially in the cavalry and the light infantry, extra-Italian subjects—the heavy mounted troopers of Thrace, thelight African cavalry, the excellent light infantry of thenimble Ligurians, the slingers from the Baleares—were cm-ployed in daily increasing numbers even beyond their ownprovinces for the Roman armies ; and at the same time, whilethere was a want of qualified burgess-recruits, the non­