OCR Output 450 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. livered themselves up upon the security ofoaths, that they should surfer no hard treat­ment from the king. And when Antiochushad thus taken the city, he did them noother harm than sending them out naked.He also placed a garrison of his own in thecity. But as for the temple of Jerusalem,he lay at its siege a long time; while theywithin bravely defended it. For whatso­ever engines the king set against them, theyset other engines again to oppose them. Butthen their provisions failed; what fruits ofthe ground they had laid up were spent;and the land not being ploughed that year,continued unsowed, because it was theseventh year; on which, by our law, weare obliged to let it lie uncultivated. Andwithal so many of the besieged ran awayfor want of necessaries, that but a few onlywere left in the temple.U These happened to be the circumstancesof such as were besieged in the temple. Butthen, because Lysias, the general of the ar­my, and Antiochus, the king, were informed,that Philip was coming upon them out ofPersia; and was endeavouring to gain themanagement of public affairs to himself;they came into these sentiments, to leavethe siege, and to make haste to go againstPhilip. Yet did they resolve not to let thisbe known to the soldiers or to the officers.But the king commanded Lysias to speakopenly to the soldiers and the officers,without saying a word about the business ofPhilip; and lo intimate to them that thesiege would be very tedious; that the placewas very strong; that they were already inwant of provisions; that many affairs of thekingdom wanted regulation; and that it wasmuch better to make a league with the be­sieged, and to become friends to their whole- nation, by permitting them to observe thelaws of their fathers; while they broke outinto this war only because they were de­prived of them; and so to depart home.When Lysias had discoursed thus, both thearmy and the officers were pleased with thisresolution. Accordingly the king sent to Judas, and * 1 Mace. vi. 62. t If we here understand by Alcimus's or Jacirous's be­ing made high-priest, his being confirmed in that dignity,which he had claimed and usurped before; both in this to those that were besieged with him; andpromised to give them peace, and to permitthem to make use of, and live according to,the laws of their fathers. And they gladlyreceived his proposals. And when they hadgained security upon oath, for their per­formance, they went out of the temple. Butwhen Antiochus came into it, and saw howstrong the place was, he broke his oaths,and ordered his army that was there, topluck down the walls to the ground;* andwhen he had so done, he returned to An-tioch: he also carried with him Onias, thehigh-priest, who was also called Menelaus.For Lysias advised the king to slay Mene­laus, if he would have the Jews be quiet,and cause him no farther disturbance: forthat this man was the origin of all the mis­chief the Jews had done them; by persuad­ing his father to compel the Jews to leavethe religion of their fathers. So the kingsent Menelaus to Berea, a city of Syria;and there had him put to death, when hehad been high-priest ten years. He hadbeen a wicked and an impious man; and,in order to get the government to himself,had compelled his nation to transgress theirown laws. After the death of Menelaus,fAlcimus, who was also called Jacimus, wasmade high-priest. But when king Antiochusfound that Philip had already possessed him­self of the government, he made war againsthim, and subdued him, and took him, andslew him. Now as to Onias, the son of thehigh-priest, who, as we before informedyou, was left a child when his father died;when he saw that the king had slain hisuncle Menelaus, and given the high-priest­hood to Alcimus, who was not of the high-priests' stock; but as induced by Lysiasto translate that dignity from this familyto another house, he fled to Ptolemy, kingof Egypt. And when he found he was ingreat esteem with him, and with his wifeCleopatra, he desired, and obtained a placein the Nomus of Heliopolis, wherein hebuilt a temple, like to that at Jerusalem;of which therefore, we shall hereafter givean account. place, and in the parallel place, 1 Mace. vii. 5. whenceJosephus took the history; this will agree with the seriesof the present transactions: otherwise not.