OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .Ml and silver, the various wardrobes and precious furniture, surpassed (says Abulfe-da) the estimate of fancy or numbers; and another historian defines the untold andalmost infinite mass, by the fabulous computation of three thousands of thousandsof thousands of pieces of gold.(l) Some minute though curious facts representthe contrast of riches and ignorance. From the remote islands of the Indianocean, a large provision of camphire(2) had been imported, which is employedwith a mixture of wax to illuminate the palaces of the east. ' Strangers to thename and properties of that odoriferous gum, the Saracens, mistaking it for salt,mingled the camphire in their bread, and were astonished at the bitterness of thetaste. One of the apartments of the palace was decorated with a carpet of silk,sixty cubits in length, and as many in breadth; a paradise, or garden, was depic­tured on the ground; the flowers, fruits, and shrubs, were imitated by the figuresof the gold embroidery, and the colours of the precious stones; and the amplesquare was encircled by a variegated and verdant border. The Arabian generalpersuaded his soldiers to relinquish their claim, in the reasonable hope that theeyes of the caliph would be delighted with the splendid workmanship of natureand industry. Regardless of the merit of art and the pomp of royalty, the rigidOmar divided the priie among his brethren of Medina: the picture was destroyed;but such was the intrinsic value of the materials, that the share of Ali alone wassold for twenty thousand drachms. A mule that carried away the tiara and cui­rass, the belt and bracelets of Chosroes, was overtaken by the pursuers; the gor­geous trophy was presented to the commander of the faithful, and the gravest ofthe companions condescended, to smile when they beheld the white beard, hairyarms, and uncouth figure, of the veteran, who was invested with the spoils of thegreat king. (3) The sack of Ctesiphon was followed by its desertion and gradualdecay. The Saracens disliked the air and situation of the place, and Omar wasadvised by his general, to remove the seat of government to the western side ofthe Euphrates. In every age the foundation and ruin of the Assyrian cities hasbeen easy and rapid; the country is destitute of stone and timber, and the most so­lid structures(4) are composed of bricks baked in the sun, and joined by a cementof the native bitumen. The name of Cufa(5) describes a habitation of reeds andearth; but the importance of the new capital was supported by the numbers,wealth and spirit, of a colony of veterans; and their licentiousness was indulgedby the wisest caliphs, who were apprehensive of provoking the revolt of a hun­dred thousand swords. "Ye men of Cufa," said Ali, who solicited their aid," you have been always conspicuous by your valour. You conquered the Persianking, and scattered his forces, till you had taken possession of his inheritance."This mighty conquest was achieved by the battles of Jalula and Nehavend. Af­ter the loss of the former, Yezdegerd new from Holwan, and concealed his shameand despair in the mountains of Farsistan, from whence Cyrus had descended withhis equal and valiant companions. The courage of the nation survived that of themonarch; among the hills to the south of Ecbatana or Hamadan, one hundred andfifty thousand Persians made a third and final stand for their religion and country;and the decisive battle of Nehavend was styled by the Arabs the victory of victo­ries. If it be true that the flying general of the Persians was stopped and over­taken in a crowd of mules and camels laden with honey, the incident, howeverslight or singular, will denote the luxurious impediments of an oriental army.(6)The geography of Persia is darkly delineated by the Greeks and Latins; butthe most illustrious of her cities appear to be more ancient than the invasion of theArabs. By the reduction of Hamadan and Ispahan, of Caswin, Tauris, and Rei,they gradually approached the shores of the Caspian sea; and the orators of Mec- (1) Mentevix potest numerove comprehend! quanta spolla .... nostris cessarinr. Abulfeda, p. 69. YetI still suspect, that the extravagant numbers uf Elmacin may be the error, not of the text, but of the version.The best translators from the Greek, for instance, I find to be very poor arithmeticians. (2) The camphire trees grow in China and Japan; but many hundred weight of those meaner sorts are ex­changed for a single pound of the more precious gum of Borneo and Sumatra (RaynaT. Hist. Philosoph. torn,j. p. 362—365. Dictionnaire d'Hist. Naturelle par Bomare; Miller's Gardener's Dictionary.) These may he theislands of the first climate from whence the Arabians imported their camphire (Gengrapb. Nub. n. 34, 35.D'Herbelot, p. 232. f3) See Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. i. p. 376, 377. I may credit the fact, without believing the prophecy. (4) The most considerable ruins of Assyria are the tower of Belus at Babylon, and the hall of Chosroes atCtesiphon: they have been visited by that vain and curious traveller, Pietro della Vale (torn. i. p. 713—718.731^735.) ' (5) Consult the article of Coi/fah in the Bibliotheque of d'Herbelot (p. 277, 278. and the second volume ofHockley's History, particularly p. 40. and 153. (6) See the article Nehavend, in d'Herbelot, p. 667,668. and Voyages en Turqrtie et en Perse, par Otter, torn.i. n. 191.