OCR Output 270 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. stance, that he proposed these measures after the victory andentirely of his own free will. If we combine with such con­siderations the fact, that Sulla allowed the principal founda­tions of the Gracchan constitution to stand and disturbedneither the equestrian courts nor the largesses of grain, weshall find warrant for the opinion that the Sullan arrange-88. ment of 666 substantially adhered to the status quo subsist­ing since the fall of Gaius Gracchus; he merely, on theone hand, altered as the times required the traditional rulesthat primarily threatened danger to the existing govern­ment, and, on the other hand, sought to remedy accordingto his power the existing social evils, so far as either couldbe done without touching ills that lay deeper. Emphaticcontempt for constitutional formalism in connection with avivid appreciation of the intrinsic value of existing arrange­ments, clear perceptions, and praiseworthy intentions markthis legislation throughout. But it bears also a certain frivo­lous and superficial character; it needed in particular a greatamount of good nature to believe, that the fixing a maximumof interest would remedy the complications of debtor andcreditor, and that the right of previous deliberation on thepart of the senate would prove more capable of resistingfuture demagogism than the right of veto and religion hadpreviously been.New com- In reality new clouds very soon began to overcast theplications, clear sky of the conservatives. The relations of Asia assumeddaily a more threatening character. The state had alreadvsuffered the utmost injury through the delay which the Sul-pician revolution had occasioned in the departure of thearmy for Asia; the embarkation could on no account belonger postponed. Meanwhile Sulla hoped to leave behindhim guarantees against a new assault on the oligarchy inItaly, partly in the consuls who would be elected under" thenew electoral arrangements, partly and especially in thearmies employed in suppressing the remains of the Italianinsurrection. In the consular comitia, however, the choicedid not fall on the candidates set up by Sulla, but LuciusCinn . Cornelius China, who belonged to the most determined oppo­sition, was associated with Gnaws Octavius, a man certainlyof strictly Optimate views. It may be presumed that itwas chiefly the capitalist party, which by this choice re­taliated on the author of the interest-law. Sulla acceptedthe unpleasant election with the declaration that he was