OCR Output CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 2<> city. The whole nation of the Sabines* came, withtheir wives and children. Being treated with great'hospitality in the different houses, when they had takena view or the city, its situation, fortifications, and theprodigious number of houses it contained, they could notconceal their wonder at the rapidity of Its progress in soshort a time. When the exhibition came on, their eyes and mindsbeing equally fixed on that object, a tumuit was set onfoot, as had been concerted, and the signal being given,the Roman youth ran different ways to carry oil' theyoung women by force. A great part of them were borneaway promiscuously, by those into whose hands chancehad put them. Some of superior beauty, destined forthe principal senators, were, by persons employed for thepurpose, carried- to their houses. A young lady, in herperson and looks, far surpassing all the rest, it is said,had been seized by a party commissioned by one Talas-sius, who, to save her from rudeness, when the questionwas put, for whom was she intended? they repeatedlycried out, for Talassius; a word, which afterwards wasadopted in the marriage ceremonies. The consternation occasioned by this proceeding hav­ing interrupted the games, the parents of the young wo­men in sorrow fled from the city, exclaiming bitterlyagainst the Romans, for violating the laws of hospitality,and invoking the vengeance of that god, to countenancewhose games they had come to Rome, betrayed underthe specious pretence of religion and public faith. Norwere the hopes of the young women more sanguine, northeir resentment less poignant. But Romulus, in person, went about and informedthem, "That whatever had happened, was entirely ow­ing to the pride of their fathers, who had refused togive them in marriage to their neighbours: but, thatnevertheless, they should be joined by indissoluble tiesto their fortunes and freedom, as well as to their per­sons. And, moreover, what would still be a moreendearing connexion, they would be united with theirhusbands in the tender affection of parents of the same • From Sabus their founder.