OCR Output iogi SYRACUSAE. SYKACUSAE. was of considerable natural strength, and seems tohave been early fortified by a wall. It Is not im­probable that, in the first instance, the name ofAchradina was given exclusively to the heights*,ami that these, as well as the island, had originallytheir own separate defences ; but as the city spreaditself out in the plain below, this must also havebeen protected by an outer wall on the side towardsthe marshes. It has indeed been supposed (Grote'sGreece, rol. Tli. p. 556) that no defence existed onthis side till the time of the Athenian exjfedition,when the Syracusans, for the first time, surroundedthe suburb of Temenitis with a wall; but no nien-tion Ls found in Thueydides of so important a facta> the construction of this new line of defence downto the Great Harbour, and it seems impossible tobelieve that this part of the city should so lonehave remained unprotected.f It is probable indeed(though not certain) that the Agora was already inthis part of the city, as we know it to have been inlater times ; and it is highly improbable that so im­portant a part of the city would have been placed inan unfortified suburb. But still more necessarywould be some such defence for the protection of thenaval arsenals or dockyards in the inner bight of theGreat Harbuur, which certainly existed before theAthenian invasion. It seems, therefore, far morenatural to suppose that, though the separate defencesof Ortygia and the heights of Achradina (Dud. xi.67, 73) were not destroyed, the two were from anearly period, probably from the reign of Gelon,united by a common line of defence, which ran downfrom the heights to some point near that where theisland of Ortygia most closely adj.lined the main­land. The existence of such a boundary wall fromthe time of the Athenian War Ls certain ; and thereseems little doubt that the name of Achradina, sup­posing it to have originally belonged to the heightsor table-land, soon came to be extended to the lowerarea also. Thus Diodorus describes Dionysius on hisreturn from Gela as arriving at the gate of Achra­dina, where the outer gale of the city is certainlymeant. (L)iod. sin. 113.) It is probable that thisgate, which was that leading to Gela, is the same asthe one called by Cicero the Portac Agragiauae,immediately outside of which lie had discovered thetomb of Archimedes. (Cic. Ttac. (frrnett. v. 23.)lint its situation cannot be determined: no distincttraces of the ancient walls remain on this side ofSyracuse, and we know not how they may have beenmodified when the suburb of Neapolis was includedin the city. It is probable, however, that the wall(as suggested by Col. Leake) ran from the brow ofthe hill near the amphitheatre in a direct line to theGreat Harbour. * These still abound in the wild pear-trees (axpd-5ts), from which the name, as suggested by Leake,was probably derived. J The argument against this, urged by Cavallan,and derived from the existence of numerous tombs,especially the great necropolis of the catacombs, inthis part of the city, which, as he contends, musthave been without the walls, would prove too much,as it is certain that these tombs were ultimately in­cluded in the city; and if the ordinary custom ofthe Greeks was deviated from at all, it may havebeen so at an earlier period. In fact we know thatin other cases also, as at Agrigentom and Tarentum,the custom was violated, and persons habituallyburied within the walls. Of the buildings noticed by Cicero as stillAchradina in his day there are scarcely aoybut the greater part of them were certainlyin the lower quarter, nearest to the iiiand ard a*two ports. The Forum or Agora wu appMiTdirectly opposite to the Pentapyla or fortxdbiof the island ; it was surrounded with ponmtfthe elder Dionysins (Diud.xjr.7),whieh inthose alluded to by Cicero (" pokherrunatVerr. iv. 53). The temple of Japitrr Uyapea,noticed by the orator, also adjoined the Agon; fbuilt by kieron II. (Diod. in. 83). and mast nabconfounded with the more celebrated tempi? d atsame divinity on a bill at some distance fra atcity. The pry taneum, which was most richlyand among its chief ornaments possessed s ceeboB«statue of Sappho, which fell a prey to the essTof Verres (Cic Verr. iv. 53, 57). was pnos&irsituated in the neighbourhood of the Azsn: »am |Cartamry the Timoleonteum, or monumentthe memory of Timoleon. (Tint. TimoL 39.)splendid sepulchral monument which bad beea«by the younger t>ionysius in memory of h> kas;but was destroyed after his own expuWm. aeahave stood in front of the I'entapyla, oppasttentrance of the citadeL (Dfod. xr. 74.) A*column is still standing on this site, and the ■a few others have been discovered, but it is nsotto what edifice they belonged. The only oilersnow visible in this quarter of the city aesoaimains of Roman baths of little importance,beneath the surface of the soil there exist nMcatacombs,constituting a complete necrcpnfii:itombs, as in most similar case*, are prafaisK fc|work of successive ages, and can hardly rt*to any particular period. There exist, also, itpoints on the slope of the hill <** Achradica, exaaquarries hewn in the rock, similar to tbaK&aatNeapolis near the theatre, of which we hhail pnaspeak. Traces of the ancient walls of Achradiaaooithe low cliffs which bound it towards taeseabe found from distance to distance ah*£ uV *line extending from the quarries of the ( l«round to the little bay or cove of Sta Pami-jm ■NW. angle of the plateau. Kecent re&ear>:a»also discovered the line of the western wall ddina, which appears to have run nearly is a sualine from the cove of Sta Fana-jia, to the »»rtnarrow pa-s or hollow way that leads up maslower quarter to the heights above, tbas btiistvantage of the partial depression or ral»e?noticed. The cove of Sta Puruigia maythe Pohtus Tnooiuoitcx of Livy (ait.though the similar cove of the Scaia Owns,halt a mile further \\\, would seem to hare tat'claim to that designation. The name a erathe same with that of Trogilus, nmb<xMsd bycydidea as the point on the X. side of the s>towards which the Athenians directed their bcircumvallation, but witliout succeeding ion*it. (Time, fi 99, viL 2.) 3. Tycha (Tvxv)- so called, as we are tildCicero, from its containing an ancient andtemple of Fortune, was situated on the p£*sitable-laud W. of Achradina, and aujunacnorthern face of the clins looking towards MeThough it became one of the most papulae* «■of Syracuse, no trace of its existence is fctaJ'period of the Athenian siege ; and it may *«Hassumed that there was as yet no couai=