OCR Output a4i THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII. The Syracusans, who had soon an intelligence of theirdesigns, were now more animated than ever to pressbriskly on the Athenians, as on men who had givenprools of their own inward conviction that they wereno longer a match for their foes cither by sea or onland; fincei with other thoughts, they never couldhave projected a re-embarkation. Apprehensive, atthe lame time, that, mould they remove to any otherquarter of Sicily, they would become more disficult ofreduction, they saw the necessity of engaging them bysea without a moment's loss, whilst yet they had anadvantage in compelling them to sight. Upon this,they ordered the complements of men on-board theirships, and exercised their crews as many days as Wasjudged susficient. But, when opportunity offered ofacting with advantage, on the first day they assaultedthe Athenian intrenchments; and, a party of heavy-armed and horsemen, though not numerous, sallyingout at some of the ports to beat them off, they cut offsome of the heavy-armed from the rest of that party, As the spot, farther, on which the assault is made, wasnarrow, the Athenians lose seventy horses and a smallnumber of their heavy-armed. Nothing more hap­pened on this day, as the army of the Syracusans nowmade their retreat. "a sleilfu) soothsayer with him; for his intimate, Stilbidet, who had cured much"of his superstition, had died a little before j since this portent (as Philochoru*"fays) was not a bad one, but an excellent good one, for a flying army; since act,"which are accompanied with fear stand in need of concealment, and light it ever"an adversary to them. Besides, after eclipses of the son or moon, it was the u-« soat custom (as Autoclidrs hath informed us) to hold only a three days cessation"from business. But Nicias persuaded himself that a complete revolution of the"moon ought to be waited for; as if with his own eyes he had not seen her shine"bright again, when the had passed the sliadow and the earth's interposition. Yet,"throwing up all attention to other points, he minded nothing hot sacrificing, till and, having them to flight, follow the pursuit. "his enemies attacked him." Life of Nie'uu. But,