OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the shares of guilt or virtue shall preponderate, the sentence will be pronounced,and all, without distinction, will pass over the sharp and perilous bridge of theabyss: but the innocent, treading in the footsteps of Mahomet, will gloriously enterthe gates of paradise, while the guilty will falUinto the first and mildest of theseven hells. The term of expiation will vary from nine hundred to seven thou­sand years; but the prophet has judiciously promised, that all his disciples, what­ever may be their sins, shall be saved, by their own faith and his intercession, frometernal damnation. It is not surprising that superstition should act most power­fully on the fears of her votaries, since the human fancy can paint with more ener­gy the misery than the bliss of a future life. With the simple elements of dark­ness and fire, we create a sensation of pain, which may be aggravated to an infi­nite degree by the idea of endless duration. But the same idea operates with anopposite effect on the continuity of pleasure; and too much of our present enjoy­ments is obtained from the relief, or the comparison of evil. It is natural enoughthat an Arabian prophet should dwell with rapture on the groves, the.fountains,and the rivers of paradise; but instead of inspiring the blessed inhabitants with aliberal taste for harmony and science, conversation and friendship, he idly cele­brates the pearls and diamonds, the robes of silk, palaces of marble, dishes ofgold, rich wines, artificial dainties, numerous attendants, and the whole train ofsensual and costly luxury, which becomes insipid to the owner, even in the shorteriod of this mortal life. Seventy-two houris, or black-eyed girls, of resplendenteauty, blooming youth, virgin purity, and exquisite sensibility, will be createdfor the use of the meanest believer; a moment of pleasure will be prolonged to athousand years, and his faculties will be increased a hundred-fold, to render himworthy of his felicity. Notwithstanding a vulgar prejudice, the gates of heavenwill be open to both sexes; but Mahomet has not specified the male companions ofthe female elect, lest he should either alarm the jealousy of their former hus­bands, orUisturb their felicity, by the suspicion of an everlasting marriage. Thisimage of a carnal paradise has provoked the indignation, perhaps the envy of themonks: they declaim against the impure religion of Mahomet; and his modestapologists are driven to the poor excuse of figures and allegories. But the sounderand more consistent party adhere, without shame, to the literal interpretation ofthe Koran: useless would be the resurrection of the body, unless it were restoredto the possession and exercise of its worthiest faculties; and the union of sensualand intellectual enjoyment is requisite to complete the happiness of the double ani­mal, the perfect man. Yet the joys of the Mahometan paradise will not be con­fined to the indulgence of luxury and appetite; and the prophet has expressly de­clared, that all meaner happiness will be forgotten and despised by the saints andmartyrs, who shall be admitted to the beatitude of the divine visioh.(l) The first and most arduous conquests of Mahomet(2) were those of his wife,his servant, his pupil, and his friend;(3) since he presented himself as a prophetto those who were most conversant with his infirmities as a man. Yet Cadijahbelieved the weirds, and cherished the glory, of her husband; the obsequious and (1) For the day ofjudgment, hell, paradise, Sec. consult the Koran, (c. 2. v. 25. e. 56. 78, &c.) with Maracci'svirulent, but learned, refutation, (mnis notes, and in the Prodromus, part 4. p. 78.-120. 122, &e.)trTleil»e]ot,(Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 308, 37f.) Reland, (p. -47—61.) and Sale, (p. 76—103.) The original ideas of theMagi are darkly and doubtfully explored by their apologist. Dr. Hyde. (Hist. Religicnis Persarum, c. 32. p.■402—412. Oxon. 1716.) Ill the article of Mahomet, Bayle has shown how indifferently wit and philosophy sup­ply the absence of general information. (2) Before I enter into the history of the prophet, it is incumbent on me to produce my evidence. The La­tin, French and English versions of the Koran, are preceded by historical discourses, ami tin* three translators,Maracci, (torn. i. p. 10—32.) Savary, (torn. i. p. 1—248.) and Sale, (Preliminary Discourse, p. 33—56.) had accu­rately studied the language and character of their author. Two professed lives of Mahomet have been com­posed by Dr. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, seventh edition, London, 1718, in octavo) and the count de Boulain-villiers (Vie de Mahomet, Londres, 1730, in octavo;) but the adverse wish of finding an impostor, or a hero, hastoo often corrupted the learning of the doctor and the ingenuity of the count. The article in d'Herbelot (Bi-bliot. Orient, p. 598—603.) is chiefly drawn from Novairi and Mircond; but the best and most authentic of ourguides is M. Gagnier, a Frenchman by birth, and professor at Oxford, of the oriental tongues. In two elabo­rate works, (Ismael Abulfeda de Vita et Rebus gestis Mohammetlis, 8tc. Latine vertit, Prtefatione et Notis il- , lustravit Johannes Gagnier, Oxon. 1723, in folio; La vie de Mahomet traduite et compilee de PAIcoran, drsTraditions authentiques de la Sonna et des meiliears Auteurs A rabes; Amsterdam, 1748.3 vols, in duodecimo)he has interpreted, illustrated, and supplied the Arabic text of Abulfeda and Al Jannabi, the first, and enlight­ened prince, who reigned at Hainan,in Syria, A. D. 1310—1332; (see Gagnier Prsefat. ad Abulfed.) the second,a credulous doctor, who visited Mecca, A. D. 1556. (D. Herbelot, p. 397. Gagnier, torn. iii. p. 209,210.) Theseare my general vouchers, and the inquisitive reader may follow the order of time, and the division of chapters,-yet X must observe, that both Abulfeda and Al Jannabi are modern historians, and that they cannot appeal toany writers of the first century of the Hegira. (3) After the Greeks, Prideaux (p. 8.) discloses the secret doubts of the wife of Mahomet. As if he had beena privy-counsellor of the prophet, Botilainvilliers (p. 272, &c.) unfolds the sublime and patriotic views ol'Cadi-Jats and the first disciples.