OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 383 mankind when their passions are warm, to give themselvesup to blind and sanguine hope, and to throw aside with de­spotic scorn whatever seemeth to be counter to their wishes.It was but lately that the Athenians had been vanquishedby the Boeotians ; and Brasidas had been making such re­citals as might persuade, though in fact they were collusive,that at Nisaea with his single force he offered battle to theAthenians and they declined it. This made them confident,and they became perfectly convinced, that there was nolonger a strength sufficient to chastise them. But what hadthe greatest influence on their thoughts, and disposed thementirely to run all hazards, was the immediate pleasure theypromised themselves in a change, and that now they weregoing for the first time to experience the sweets of Lacedae­monian friendship. These inclinations were perceived by the Athenians, whosent garrisons into each of these cities in order to curb them,with as much expedition as the shortness of time and thewintry season would permit. Brasidas also had sent to Lacedaemon, soliciting a speedyreinforcement, and was busy himself in providing materials tobuild triremes in the Strymon. But the Lacedaemonians ne­glected to supply him, partly through the envy which theleading men at Sparta had conceived against him, and partlybecause their attention was principally confined to the recove­ry of their people made prisoners in Sphacteria, and to bringthe war to a conclusion. The same winter, the Megareans having recovered theirlong -walls, which were in the possession of the Athenians,levelled them with the ground. Brasidas thus master of Amphipolis gathereth togetherthe allies, and leadeth them into the district called Acte. Itis the tract, which stretcheth out into the sea from the canalwhich was dug by Xerxes, and Athos the highest mountainin Acte is its utmost verge upon the iEgean sea. The citiesin it are ; Sane, a colony of Andrians, seated close to the ca­