OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 529 by ramparts and ditches, since the situation of the place didnot admit of taking it by storm or surprise. He parted theduty among the legions; and there were no farther engage­ments, until whatever had been invented for the taking ofcities by the ancients, or by the ingenuity of the moderns,was got ready. ANNALS, book xv. Nero, in order to stifle the rumor [as if he had himselfset Rome on fire,] ascribed it to those people who were hatedfor their wicked practices, and called by the vulgar Chris­tians ; these he punished exquisitely. The author of thisname was Christ, who, in the reign of Tiberius, was broughtto punishment by Pontius Pilate the procurator.1 For thepresent this pernicious superstition was in part suppressed,but it broke out again, not only over Judea, whence this mis­chief first sprang, but in the city of Rome also, whither dorun from every quarter and make a noise, all the flagrantand shameful enormities. At first, therefore, those were seizedwho confessed, afterward a vast multitude were detected bythem, and were convicted, not so much as really guilty ofsetting the city on fire, but as hating all mankind; nay, theymade a mock of them as they perished, and destroyed themby putting them into the skins of wild beasts, and settingdogs upon them to tear them to pieces. Some were nailedto crosses, and others flamed to death: thoy were also usedin the night-time instead of torches, for illumination. Nerohad offered his own gardens for this spectacle. He alsogave them Circensian games, and dressed himself like adriver of a chariot, sometimes appearing among the commonpeople, sometimes in the circle itself; whence a commisera­tion arose, though the punishments were levelled at guiltypersons, and such as deserve to be made the most flagrantexamples, as if these people were destroyed, not for the ' This passage seems to have been directly taken from Josephus's famoustestimony concerning Christ and the Christians, Antiq. b. xviii. ch. iii. sect.3, of which Dissert. I. before. IV. —45