OCR Output 26 LIVY. witness of their behavior. On Hannibal's side, thefront line was composed of the Spanish troops, whowere the main strength of his army. When the fighthad long continued doubtful, Hannibal ordered theelephants to be brought up to the van, hoping by theirmeans to occasion fear and disorder. At first theybroke the ranks, and by treading down some, and ter­rifying others, on either side, so as to put them toflight, made an opening in the line in one part; andthe alarm would probably have spread farther, hadnot Caius Decimius Flavus, a military tribune, snatch­ing the standard of the first band of spearmen, orderedthat company to follow him. He then led them to thespot where the elephants were throwing all into con­fusion, with directions to discharge their javelins atthem. Every weapon took place, for there was nodifficulty in hitting, at a small distance, bodies of suchhuge bulk, especially as they were crowded closetogether. But though they were not all of themwounded, yet those, in whose flesh the javelins stuck,as they are creatures whose motions cannot be de­pended on, betaking themselves to flight, drove backeven those that were unhurt. And now, not anyparticular company alone, but every soldier who couldcome np with the retreating elephants, with all hismight hurled javelins at them. Thus attacked, themore violently did the animals rush on their owners,and made so much the greater carnage of them, thanthey had made of the enemy, as one of them, whenfrightened or hurt, is hurried on more forcibly thanhe could be driven by the manager sitting on his back.While the enemy's line was in this great disorder, inconsequence of those beasts breaking through it, theRomans made a brisk onset, and without much oppo­sition from troops so scattered and confused, drovethem off the ground. Marcellus ordered his cavalryto charge them as they fled, and the pursuit did notcease until they were driven, in consternation, intotheir camp: for besides other circumstances whichcaused terror and tumult, two elephants bad fallen in