OCR Output CHAP. 44. ROMAN HISTORY. 265 place, they brought back his corpse, affirming, that Sic-cius had not been killed by the ^enemy, but by his ownparty. The indignation of the army was inconceivable.They were determined to carry the body forthwith toRome, had not the decemvirs prevented them by hasten­ing to bury him, at the public charge, with all the ho­nours of war. The soldiers accompanied his funeral intears, and openly threw out the bitterest invectivesagainst the decemvirs. - . . -. •" CHAP. XL1V. w I The villainy of-Appius. J. HE other act of villainy originated in a criminal pas­sion, which was perpetrated in the city, as deplorable in theevent, as the rape and murder of Lucretia, which expel­led the Tarquins, both from the city and kingdom; thatthe last blow to the power of the decemvirs, might notonly be similar to that of the kings, but that their catas­trophe might proceed from the same kind of cause.Appius Claudius was struck with the charms of a ple­beian beauty, and thought of nothing but the means ofgratifying-his criminal desires. Her father, L. Virginias,held an honourable pos^ia the army at the Algidus, andbesides was much respected as a man of integrity andcourage. His wife's priaciples had been strictly virtuou?,and his childrens education was completely so. He had promised her in marriage to L. Icilius, who hadbeen a tribune, a man of spirit, and had given proofs ofhis courage, in the cause of the commons. Deeply impressed with the exquisite beauty, and theblooming graces of youth, he discovered in this fair one,Appiu? attempted to make his way, by means of presentsami fair promises: But, fmding that her virtue was proofagainst these arts, he resolved to have recourse to force,however cruel and insolent it might appear. Thmkinghe never could have a better opportunity to execute hiswicked purposes, than when her father was absent, heordered M. Claudius, a creature of his own, to claim heras his slave; and by no means to leave her at liberty,upon bail, till the cause should be determined.