OCR Output DECLINfc AND FALL [ciiAt»: XLI*!1.' uncle had imprudently bestowed the provincial govern­ments of Tripoli and Pentapolis. A Moorish tribe en­camped under the walls of Leptis, to renew their alii*ance, and receive from the governor the customary gifts;Fourscore of their deputies were introduced as friendsinto the city; but, on the dark suspicion of a conspi­racy, they were massacred at the table of Sergius; andthe clamour of arms and revenge was re-echoed throughthe valleys of mount Atlas, from both the Syrtes to theAtlantic ocean. A personal injury, the unjust execu­tion, or murder of his brother, rendered Antalus theenemy of the Romans. The defeat of the Vandals hadformerly signalized his valour; the rudiments of justiceand prudence were still more conspicuous in a Moor;and while he laid Adrumetum in ashes, he calmly admo­nished the emperor that the peace of Africa might besecured by the recall of Solomon and his unworthy ne­phews. The exarch led forth his troops from Carthage:but at the distance of six days' journey, in the neigh­bourhood of Tebeste,d he was astonished by the superiornumbers and fierce aspect of the barbarians. He pro­posed a treaty; solicited a reconciliation; and offeredto bind himself by the most solemn oaths. "By whatoaths can: he bind himself? (interrupted the indignantMoors.) Will he swear by the gospels, the divine booksof the Christians? It was on those books that the faithof his nephew Sergius was pledged to eighty of our inno­cent and unfortunate brethren. Before we trust them asecond time, let us try their efficacy in the chastisementof perjury, and the vindication of their own honou»"Their honour was vindicated in the field of Tebeste, bythe death of Solomon, and the total loss of his army. * Now Tibesh, in the kingdom of Algiers. It is watered by a river, the Sujeras*,which falls into the Mejerda. (Bagradas.) Tibesh is still remarkable for its walls oflarge stones (like the Coliseum of Rome), a fountain and a grove of walnut-trees : thecountry is fruitful, and the neighbouring Bereberes are warlike. It appears from aninscription, that, under the reign of Adrian, the road from Carthage to Tebeste wasconstructed by the third legion. (Maraiol. Description de l'Afriquc, tota. 2. p. Hit;443. Shaw's Travels, p. 64—66.) • ■ .-■■'■■>