OCR Output THE PELOPOSNESIA* WAR. the keenest spirit. They most daringly projected, and thenregularly executed the most dreadful machinations. Theirrevenge was not limited by justice or the public welfare ; itaimed at more ample satisfaction. Either side constantlymeasured it by such retaliation as was judged the sweetest,either by a capital condemnation through an iniquitous sen­tence, or by earning the victory with their own hands, inwhich they were always ready to glut the present rancour oftheir hearts. And hence it was, that the pious and uprightconduct was on both sides disregarded. And, when anypoint of great importance was before them, to carry it byspecious collusive oratory was the greatest enhancement oftheir credit. Yet all this while, the moderate members ofsuch communities either hated because they would notmeddle, or, envied for such obnoxious conduct, fell victimsto both. Seditions in this manner introduced every species of out­rageous wickedness into the Grecian manners. Sincerity,which is most frequently to be found in generous tempers,was laughed out of countenance and for ever vanished. Itwas become the universal practice, to keep up a constantenmity of intention against one another, and never to be­lieve. No promise was strong enough, no oath sufficientlysolemn, to banish such mutual diffidence. Those who ex­celled in shrewd consideration resigned all hope of any last­ing security, and stood ever on their guard against whom itwas impossible for them to trust. But persons of meanerunderstandings took more effectual means for their preser­vation. Living in constant apprehensions, from their owninferiority and the craft of their opponents, lest by wordsthey should be over-reached, or that such subtle headsmight execute their treacheries upon them unawares, theyboldly seized the present moment, and at once dispatchedthe men they dreaded ; who, presuming too much on theirown penetration, and that it was superfluous to aim a blowat those whom they could at any time supplant by cunning.