OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 21 the party friendly to Rome then laid down—that theAchaeans were no longer at liberty to wage war without thepermission of the Romans—expressed, doubtless with disa­greeable precision, the simple truth that the formal sov-reignty of the dependent states was merely formal, and thatany attempt to give life to the shadow must necessarily leadto the destruction of the shadow itself. But the rulingcommunity deserves a censure more severe than that directedagainst the ruled. It is no easy task for a state any morethan for a man to become reconciled to insignificance;it is the duty and right of the ruler either to renounce hisauthority, or by the display of an imposing material supe­riority to compel the ruled to resignation. The Roman senatedid neither. Invoked and importuned on all hands, the senateinterfered incessantly in the course of African, Hellenic, Asi­atic, and Egyptian affairs; but it did so after so inconstantand loose a fashion, that its attempts to settle matters usuallyonly rendered the confusion worse. It was the epoch ofcommissions. Commissioners of the senate were constantlygoing to Carthage and Alexandria, to the Achaean diet, and tothe courts of the rulers of western Asia; they investigated, in­hibited, reported, and yet decisive steps were not unfrequentlytaken in the most important matters without the knowledge,or against the wishes, of the senate. Cyprus, for instance,which the senate had assigned to the kingdom of Cyrene,was nevertheless retained by Egypt; a Syrian prince as­cended the throne of his ancestors under the pretext thathe had obtained a promise of it from the Romans, while thesenate had in fact expressly refused to give it to him, andhe himself had only escaped from Rome by breaking theirinterdict; even the open murder of a Roman commissioner,who under the orders of the senate administered as guardianthe government of Syria, passed totally unpunished. TheAsiatics were very well aware that they were not in aposition to resist the Roman legions; but they were no lessaware that the senate was but little inclined to give thecitizens orders to march for the Euphrates or the Nile.Thus the state of these remote countries resembled thatof the schoolroom when the teacher is absent or lax; andthe government of Rome deprived the nations at onceof the blessings of freedom and of the blessings of order.For the Eomans themselves, moreover, this state of matterswas in so far perilous as it to a certain extent left their