OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 325 their pay, surrounded them with his trusty Celtic troops,and caused them to be cut down en masse to the number,according to the lowest estimate, of 4000. Along with the reign of terror came the tyrannis. Cinna Govern-not only stood at the head of the state for four years in »»' ofsuccession (667-670) as consul, but he regularly nominated Cl°"^himself and his colleagues without consulting the people;it seemed as if these democrats set aside the sovereignpopular assembly with intentional contempt. No otherchief of the popular party, before or afterwards, possessed soperfectly absolute a power in Italy and in the greater partof the provinces for so long a time almost undisturbed asCinna; but no one can be named, whose government wasso utterly worthless and aimless. The law proposed bySulpicius and thereafter by Cinna himself, which promisedto the new burgesses and the freedmen equality of suffragewith the old burgesses, was naturally revived; and it wasformally confirmed by a decree of the senate as valid in law(670). Censors were nominated (668) for the purpose of 8i. SGdistributing all the Italians, in accordance with it, into thethirty-five tribes; by a singular conjuncture, in consequenceof a want of qualified candidates for the censorship the samePhilippus, who when consul in 663 had been the principal 9t.occasion of the miscarriage of Drusus' plan for bestowingthe franchise on the Italians (P. 221), was now selected ascensor to inscribe them in the burgess-rolls. The reac­tionary institutions established by Sulla in 666 were of 88.course overthrown. Some steps were taken to please theproletariate—for instance, the restrictions on the distribu­tion of grain introduced some years ago (P. 237), wereprobably now once more removed; the design of GaiusGracchus to found a colony at Capua was in reality carriedout in the spring of 671 on the proposal of the tribune of 83.the people, Marcus Junius Brutus; Lucius Valerius Flaccusthe younger introduced a law as to debt, which reducedevery private claim to the fourth part of its nominal amountand cancelled three-fourths in favour of the debtors. Butthese measures, the only positive ones during the wholeCinnan government, were without exception the dictates ofthe moment; they were based—and this is perhaps the mostshocking feature in this whole catastrophe—not on a planpossibly erroneous, but on no political plan at all. Thepopulace were caressed, and at the same time offended in