OCR Output SINUS AD GRADUS. 1009 SION. wmd by Pliny u well as the I.iher Coloniarumt in "oppidam," or ordinary municipal town,it. E 5. i. 9; /.•'.. Col. L c.) It whs the fur-■: urn in Latium, as that term was understoodh day* of Strabo and Pliny, or " Latium adjec-i,' u the latter author terms it; and its territoryrafcd to the river Sam, which formed the limit■m Latinm and Campania. (Strab. v. pp. 219,. Mi Plin. iii. 5. a. 9; Mel. ii. 4. § 9.) At■far period indeed Polybins reckoned it aa af Campania, and Ptolemy follows the sameuScation, as he makes the Lin's the southernt at Latium (Pol. iii. 91; Ptol. iii. 1. § 6); butAnsicm adopted by Strabo and Pliny is probablyBut correct. The Itineraries all notice Sinuessai 'till existing town on the Appian Way, and11: 9 miles from Mintumae, which is, however,Jnbly below the truth. (Itin. Ant. p. 108;nW. p. 611; Tab. Pent.) The period of itsrvcuon is unknown. at miat of Sinuessa are still visible on the sea-I ja»t below the hill of Mondragone, which ■ the last underfall or extremity of the ton;;i af llontt Mauico. The most important arelaf an aqueduct, and of an edifice which ap- > to have been a triumphal arch; but the ■ plain is covered with fragments of ancientlap. (Clnver. Ital. p. 1080; Romanelli, vol. 1a abort distance from Sinuessa were the bathsirrnul springs called Aquak Sinuessanae, • appear to have enjoyed a great reputation't tat Romans. Pliny tells us they werecwi a remedy for barrenness in women and fort:r in men. They are already mentioned byai early as the Second Punic War; and thoughine was eclipsed at a later period by those ofi ici other fashionable watering-places, they ■ - aued in use under the Kinptre, and werea! u» among others by the emperor Claudius. uil IS; Tac. Ann. xii. 66; Plin. xxxi. 2. s.|[ *u there, also, that the infamous Tigellinus> il-J to put an end to his own life. (Tac. L ft; Pint. Oth. 2.) The mild and warmu of Sinuessa is extolled by some writers asMug to the effect of the waters (Tac ,4nn. . Hence it is called " Sinuessa tepens" by1 luliras, and "mollis Sinuessa" by Martial,hi no. 528; Mart. vi. 42.) The site of the • u still called / Bagni, and the remains of ■ buildings still exist there. [E. II. B.]RS AD GRADUS or AD GRADUS. [Fossa XI A.] R, II. (SiaV), originally the name of a»Ur fortress or hill of Jerusalem, but often • poetical and prophetic books extended to"We city, especially to the temple, for a\ which will presently be obvious. Sion pro­as been always assumed by later writers to > SW. hill of Jerusalem, and this has beenfa granted in the article on Jerusalem rnuut, p. 18]. The counter hypothesis of"writer, however, maintained with greatar. demands some notice under this head.• Pp {AiUUnt Jerusalem, 1855) admits theal aieatiry of Sion and the city of David, but» bulb to have been distinct from the upperUi-epbas, which latter he identifies with the15ioa\ in agreement with other writers. The■»» of the name and position of Sion hea» far hack as the return from the Babylonish captivity, believing that the Jews had lost the tra­dition of its identity with the city of David; sothat, while they correctly placed the latter, theyerroneously fixed the former where it is still found,viz., at the SW. of the Temple Mount, which mountwas in fact the proper " Sion," identical with " thecity of David;" for it is admitted that the modemSion is identical not only with that recognised bythe Christian (he might have added the Jewish) in­habitants of Jerusalem, and by all Christian (and.Jewish) pilgrimB and travellers from the days ofConstantine, but with the Sinn of the later Jewishdays, and with that of the Maccabees. The elabo­rate argument by which it is attempted to removethis error of more than 2000 years' standing fromthe topography of Jerusalem, cannot here be stated,much less discussed; but two considerations may bebriefly mentioned, which will serve to vindicate forthe SW. hill of the city the designation which it hasenjoyed, as is granted, since the time of the Baby­lonish captivity. One is grounded on the languageof Holy Scripture, the other on Josephus. Of theidentity of the original Sion with the city of David,there can be no doubt. Mr. Thrupp (pp. 12, 13)has adduced in proof of it three conclusive passagesfrom Holy Scripture (2 Sam. v. 7; 1 Kings, viii. 1;1 Chron. xi. 5). It is singular that he did not seethat the second of these passages is utterly irrecon­cilable with the identity of the city of David with theTemple Mount; and that his own attempt to recon­cile it with his theory, is wholly inadequate. Ac-cording to that theory Mount Sion, or the city ofDavid, extended from the NW. angle of the presentHaram, to the south of the same enclosure; and thetombs of David, which were certainly in the city ofDavid, he thinks might yet be discovered beneaththe south-western part of the Haram (p. 161). Thatthe temple lay ou this same mount, between thesetwo points, is not disputed by any one. Now, not toinsist upon the difficulty of supposing that theUtreshing-fioor of Araunah the Jebusite, where thetemple was undoubtedly founded (2 Chron. iii. I),lay in the very heart of the city of David, fromwhich David had expelled the Jebusites, it is demon­strable, from the contents of the second passageabove referred to, that the temple was in no sense inthe city of David; for, after the completion of thetemple, it is said in that and the parallel passage (Chron. v. 2, 5, 7) that Solomon and the assembledIsraelites brought up the ark of the covenant of theLord out of the city of David, which is Sion, intothe temple which he had prepared for it on whatScripture calls Mount Moriah (2 Chron. iii. 1 )■Again, in 2 Samuel, v. 6—9, we have the accountof David's wresting " the stronghold of Sion, the sameis the city of David,'' out of the hands of the Jebu-sites; after which " David dwelt iu the fort, andcalled it the city of David." Josephus, in recordingthe same events, states that David 11 laid siege toJerusalem, and took the lower city by assault, whilethe citadel still held out." (-•!»/. vii. 3. § 2.) Thiscitadel is clearly identified with the upper city, bothin this passage and in his more detailed descriptionof the city, where he says 11 that the hill upon whichthe upper city was built was by far the highest,andon account of its strength was called by King Davidthe fortress" (ippovpiov). (BelL Jud. v. 4. § 1.)We are thus led to a conclusion directly opposite tothat arrived at by Mr. Thrupp, w ho says that " theaccounts in the books of Samuel and Chronicles re­present David as taking the stronghold of Sion first LB. 3t