OCR Output 53o THE DECLINE AND- FALL Or a Louis XIV, might have acquired a just knowledge of the rightsof conscience, of the obligation of faith, and of the innocence oferror. But the princes and magistrates of ancient Rome werestrangers to those principles which inspired and authorized the in­flexible obstinacy of the Christians in the cause of truth, nor couldthey themselves discover in their own breasts, any motive whichwould have prompted them to refuse a legal, and as it were a natu­ral submission to the sacred institutions of their country. The famereason which contributes to alleviate the guilt, must have tended toabate the rigour of their persecutions. As they were actuated, notby the furious zeal of bigots, but by the temperate policy of legis­lators, contempt must often have relaxed, and humanity must fre­quently have suspended the execution of those laws, which theyenacted against the humble and obscure followers of Christ. Fromthe general view of their character and motives we might naturallyconclude: I. That considerable time elapsed before they consideredthe new sectaries as an object deserving of the attention of govern­ment. II. That in the conviction of any of their subjects whowere accused of so very singular a crime, they proceeded with cau­tion and reluctance. III. That they were moderate in the use ofpunishments; and IV. That the afflicted church enjoyed many in­tervals of peace and tranquillity. Notwithstanding the carelessindifference which the most copious and the most minute of thepagan writers have shewn to the affairs of the Christiansl+, it maystill be in our power to confirm each of these probable supposi­tions, bv the evidence of authentic facts.They neglect- L By the wife dispensation of Providence, a mysterious veil wasdan* afa sect ca^ over tne infancy of the church, which served to protect the•fjews. Christians till their faith was matured, and their numbers weremultiplied, not only from the malice, but even from the knowledgeof the pagan world. The slow and gradual abolition of the Mosaicceremonies afforded a safe and innocent disguise to the more early pro­