OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 235 active; one soldier carried a whip, another a sword, athird a bow, a fourth perhaps a battle-axe, and the wholepicture exhibited the intrepidity of the troops and thevigilance of the general. Chosroes was deluded by theaddress, and awed by the genius, of the lieutenant of Jus­tinian. Conscious of the merit, and ignorant of theforce, of his antagonist, he dreaded a decisive battle in adistant country, from whence not a Persian might returnto relate the melancholy tale. The great king hastenedto repass the Euphrates; and Belisarius pressed his re­treat, by affecting to oppose a measure so salutary to theempire, and which could scarcely have been prevented byan army of a hundred thousand men. Envy might sug­gest to ignorance and pride, that the public enemy hadbeen suffered to escape: but the African and Gothictriumphs are less glorious than this safe and bloodlessvictory, in which neither fortune, nor the valour of thesoldiers, can subtract any part of the general's renown.The second removal of Belisarius from the Persian to the a. d. 543,Italian war, revealed the extent of his personal merit, &0"which had corrected or supplied the want of disciplineand courage. Fifteen generals, without concert or skill,led through the mountains of Armenia an army of thirtythousand Romans, inattentive to their signals, theirranks, and their ensigns. Four thousand Persians, in-'trenched in the camp of Dubis, vanquished, almost with­out a combat, this disorderly multitude; their uselessarms were scattered along the road, and their horsessunk under the fatigue of their rapid flight. But theArabs of the Roman party prevailed over their bre­thren; the Armenians returned to their allegiance; thecities of Dara and Edessa resisted a sudden assault anda regular siege, and the calamities of war were sus­pended by those of pestilence. A tacit or formal agree­ment between the two sovereigns, protected the tran­quillity of the eastern frontier; and the arms of Chos­roes were confined to the Colchian or Lazic war, which a 2