OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 408 learned all their concerns, and made the damsel ill-natured to theyoung man. And in order to gratify her mother, she often said,that the young men used to mention Mariamne when they wereby themselves: and that they hated their father, and were con­tinually threatening, that if they had once got the kingdom, theywould make Herod's sons by his other wives country school­masters, for that the present education which was given them,and their diligence in learning, fitted them for such an employ­ment. And as for the women, whenever they saw them adorn­ed with their mother's clothes, they threatened, that instead oftheir present gaudy apparel, they should be clothed in sackcloth,and confined so closely that they should not see the light of thesun. These stories were presently carried by Salome to theking, who was troubled to hear them, and endeavoured tomake up matters: but these suspicions afflicted him, and be­coming more and more uneasy, he believed every body againstevery body. However, upon his rebuking his sons, and hearingthe defence they made for themselves, he was easier for a while,though a little afterwards much worse accidents came upon him, 4. For Pheroras came to Alexander, the husband of Glaphy-ra, who was the daughter of Archelaus, as we have already toldyou, and said, that he had heard from Salome, that Herod wasenamoured of Glaphyra, and that his passion for her was in­curable. When Alexander heard that, he was all on fire, fromhis youth and jealousy; and he interpreted the instances of He­rod's obliging behaviour to her, which were very frequent, forthe worse, which came from those suspicions he had on accountof that word which fell from Pheroras; nor could he conceal hisgrief at the thing, but informed him what words Pheroras hadsaid. Upon which Herod was in a greater disorder than ever;and not bearing such a false calumny, which was to his shame, wasmuch disturbed at it: and often did he lament the wickedness ofhis domestics, and how good he had been to them, and how illrequitals they had made him. So he sent for Pheroras, and re­proached him, and said, " Thou vilest of all men! art thou come"to that unmeasurable and extravagant degree of ingratitude,"as not only to suppose such things of me, but to speak of"them? I now indeed perceive what thy intentions are: it is"not thy only aim to reproach me, when thou usest such words"to my son, but thereby to persuade him to plot against me,"and get me destroyed by poison. And who is there, if he had"not a good genius at his elbow, as hath my son, but would"not bear such a suspicion of his father, but would revenge"himself upon him? Dost thou suppose that thou hast only"dropped a word for him to think of, and not rather hast put"a sword into his hand to slay his father? And what dost thou *->!» n. 8 E 27