OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 171 prus was not more propitious to the rebel than to thetyrant. His throne was subverted by a rival withoutmerit, and a people without arms. Isaac Angehis, adescendant in the female line from the great Alexius,was marked as a victim, by the prudence or superstitionof the emperor. In a moment of despair, Angelus de­fended his life and liberty, slew the executioner, and fledto the church of St. Sophia. The sanctuary was insen­sibly filled with a curious and mournful crowd, who, inhis fate, prognosticated their own. But their lamenta­tions were soon turned to curses, and their curses tothreats: they dared to ask, Why do we fear? why dowe obey? we are many, and he is one; our patience isthe only bond of our slavery. With the dawn of daythe city burst into a general sedition, the prisons werethrown open, the coldest and most servile were rousedto the defence of their country, and Isaac, the secondof the name, was raised from the sanctuary to thethrone. Unconscious of his danger, the tyrant was ab­sent; withdrawn from the toils of state, in the deliciousislands of the Propontis. He had contracted an inde­cent marriage with Alice, or Agnes, daughter of LewisVII. of France, and relict of the unfortunate Alexius:and his society, more suitable to his temper than to hisage, was composed of a young wife and a favourite con­cubine. On the first alarm he rushed to Constanti­nople, impatient for the blood of the guilty; but he wasastonished by the silence of the palace, the tumult of thecity, and the general desertion of mankind. Andronicusproclaimed a free pardon to his subjects; they neitherdesired nor would grant forgiveness: he offered to re­sign his crown to his son Manuel; but the virtues ofthe son could not expiate his father's crimes. The seawas still open for his retreat; but the news of the revo­lution had flown along the coast; when fear had ceased,obedience was no more; the imperial galley was pur­sued and taken by an armed brigantine; and the tyrant