OCR Output VIII.] MASADA AND THE SICARII. 327 CHAPTER VIII. CONCERNING MASADA, AND THOSE SICARII WHO KEPT IT J ANDHOW SILVA BETOOK HIMSELF TO FORM THE SIEGE OF THATCITADEL. ELEAZAR'S SPEECHES TO THE BESIEGED. § 1. When Bassus was dead in Judea, Flavius Silvasucceeded him as procurator there; who when he saw thatall the rest of the country was suhducd in this war, and thatthere was but one only strong hold that was still in rebellion,he got all his army together, that lay in different places, andmade an expedition against it. This fortress was calledMasada. It was one Eleazar, a potent man, and the com­mander of these Sicarii, that had seized upon it. Ho was adescendant from that Judas who had persuaded abundanceof the Jews, as we have formerly related, not to submit tothe taxation when Cyrenius was sent into Judea to make one;for then it was that the Sicarii got together against thosethat were willing to submit to the Romans, and treated themin all respects as if they had been their enemies, both byplundering them of what they had, by driving away theircattle, and by setting fire to their houses; for they said thatthey differed not at all from foreigners, by betraying in socowardly a manner that freedom which Jews thought worthyto be contended for to the utmost, and by owning that theypreferred slavery under the Romans before such a contention.Now this was in reality no better than a pretence and acloak for the barbarity which was made use of by them, andto color over their own avarice, which they afterwards madeevident by their own actions; for those that were partnerswith them in their rebellion joined also with them in the waragainst the Romans, and went farther lengths with them intheir impudent undertakings against them ; and when theywere again convicted of dissembling in such their pretences,they still more abused those that justly reproached them fortheir wickedness. And, indeed, that was a time most fertilein all manner of wicked practices, insomuch that no kind of