OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. dazzled by glittering arms and regular evolutions; andthe menace of their female prophets was repeatedly ful­filled, that the Moors should be discomfited by a beard­less antagonist. The victorious eunuch advanced thir­teen days' journey from Carthage, to besiege mountAurasius/ the citadel, and at the same time the garden,of Numidia. The range of hills, a branch of the greatAtlas, contains, within a circumference of one hundredand twenty miles, a rare variety of soil and climate; theintermediate valleys and elevated plains abound withrich pastures, perpetual streams, and fruits of a delicioustaste and uncommon magnitude. This fair solitude isdecorated with the ruins of Lambesa, a Roman city, oncethe seat of a legion, and the residence of forty thousandinhabitants. The Ionic temple of iEsculapius is encom­passed with Moorish huts; and the cattle now graze inthe midst of an amphitheatre, under the shade of Corin­thian columns. A sharp perpendicular rock rises abovethe level of the mountain, where the African princes de­posited their wives and treasure; and a proverb is familiarto the Arabs, that the man may eat fire, who dares toattack the craggy cliffs and inhospitable natives of mountAurasius. This hardy enterprise was twice attemptedby the eunuch Solomon: from the first, he retreatedwith some disgrace; and in the second, his patience andprovisions were almost exhausted; and he must againhave retired, if he had not yielded to the impetuous cou­rage of his troops, who audaciously scaled, to the asto­nishment of the Moors, the mountain, the hostile camp,and the summit of the Geminian rock. A citadel waserected to secure this important conquest, and to remindthe barbarians of their defeat: and as Solomon pursuedhis march to the west, the long-lost province of Mauri-tanian Sitifi was again annexed to the Roman empire. i Procopius is tie first who describes mount Aurasius. (Vandal. lib. 2. c. 13.De ediOc. lib. 6. c. 7.) He may be compared with Leo Africanus, (dell Africa, parte5. in Bamiwio, torn. 1. fol. 77, recto) Marmol, (torn. 2. p. 430.) and Shaw, (p.