OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 103 prostrate in chains beneath the throne of the emperor;and Justinian, planting a foot on each of their necks,contemplated above an hour the chariot-race, while theinconstant people shouted, in the words of the psalm­ist,—Thou shall trample on the asp and basilisk, and onthe lion and dragon shalt thou set thy foot! The uni­versal defection which he had once experienced mightprovoke him to repeat the wish of Caligula, that the Ro­man people had but one head. Yet I shall presume toobserve, that such a wish is unworthy of an ingenioustyrant, since his revenge and cruelty would have been ex­tinguished by a single blow, instead of the slow varietyof tortures which Justinian inflicted on the victims of hisanger. His pleasures were inexhaustible: neither privatevirtue nor public service could expiate the guilt of active,or even passive, obedience to an established government;and, during the six years of his new reign, he consideredthe axe, the cord, and the rack, as the only instrumentsof royalty. But his most implicable hatred was pointedagainst the Chersonites, who had insulted his exile,, andviolated the laws of hospita^ty. Their remote situationafforded some means of defence, or at least of escape;and a grievous tax was imposed on Constantinople, tosupply the preparations of a fleet and army. All areguilty, and all must perish, was the mandate of Justi­nian; and the bloody execution was intrusted to hisfavourite Stephen, who was recommended by the epithet-of the savage. Yet even the savage Stephen imper­fectly accomplished the intentions of his sovereign. Theslowness of his attack allowed the greater part of the in­habitants to withdraw into the country; and the minister6f vengeance contented himself with reducing the youthof both sexes to a state of servitude, with roasting aliveseven of the principal citizens, with drowning twenty inthe sea, and with reserving forty-two in chains to receivetheir doom from the mouth of the emperor. In theirreturn, the fleet was driven on the rocky shores of Ana-