OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 207 second sort. Such were Gaius Servilius Glaucia, called Glaucia.by Cicero the "Roman Hyperbolus, a vulgar fellow of thelowest origin and of the most shameless street-eloquence,but effective and even dreaded by reason of his pungentwit; and his better and abler associate, Lucius AppuleiusSaturninus, who even according to the accounts of his Saturnintuenemies was a fiery and impressive speaker, and was atleast not guided by motives of vulgar selfishness. When hewas quaestor, the charge of the importation of corn whichhad fallen to him in the usual way had been withdrawn fromhim by decree of the senate, not so much perhaps on accountof the faults of his administration, as in order to confer this—just at that time popular—office on one of the heads of thegovernment-party, Marcus Scaurus, rather than upon anunknown young man not belonging to any of the rulingfamilies. This mortification had driven the aspiring andsensitive man into the ranks of the opposition; and astribune of the people in 651 he repaid what he had received 103.with interest. One scandalous affair had then followed hardupon another. He had spoken in the open market of thebriberies practised in Rome by the envoys of King Mith-radates—these revelations, compromising in the highest de­gree the senate, had wellnigh cost the bold tribune his life.He had excited a tumult against the conqueror of Numidia,Quintus Metellus, when he was a candidate for the censor­ship in 652, and kept him besieged in the Capitol till the 102.equites liberated him not without bloodshed ; the retaliatorymeasure of the censor Metellus—the expulsion with infamy ofSaturninus and of Glaucia from the senate on occasion of therevision of the senatorial roll-—had only miscarried throughthe remissness of the colleague assigned to Metellus. Satur­ninus mainly had carried that exceptional commission againstCaepio and his associates (P. 188) in spite of the vehementresistance of the government-party ; and in opposition to thesame he had carried the keenly contested re-election ofMarius as consul for 652. Saturninus was decidedly the 102.most energetic enemy of the senate and the most active andeloquent leader of the popular party since Gams Gracchus;but he was also violent and unscrupulous beyond any ofhis predecessors, always ready to descend into the streetand to refute his antagonist with blows instead of words. Such were the two leaders of the so-called popular party,who now made common cause with the victorious general.