OCR Output VIADUS. VICUS AQUARIUS. 1307 from Borne to that sea, served to connect the Valerian,Salarian, and Flaminian Ways. Fur this reason it maybe nscful to set down here the stations and distancesalong this line of coast, from the mouth of the Aterrmsto Anemia. They are tbos given in the AntonineItinerary (p. 313):—From the Ostia Aterni (Pescara") to lla.lris (Atri) ... xvi. M.r.Castrnm Novum (near Giulia A'noro) ... xv.Castrnm Truentinm (at the month of the Tronto) ... xii.Castellum Firmanum (Porto di Fermo) .... xxiv.Potentia (J\>tema) - xxii.Ninnauflpbiit/nui) - - X. Anc0l^»^ - viii.Here coast-road joined one branch of the Via^£fl^kia; and the distances from Ancona to Arimi-^P'11 he found in the article on that road. [Via ^^ne Via Valeria, like the Aemilia and Flaminia,pave name to one of the later divisions or provincesnf Italy under the Roman Empire, which was calledValeria. It comprised the land of the Marsi, Peligni,and Vestini, through which the road really passed, aswell as the land of the Sabines, which was traversedby the Via Salaria. [Italia, p. 93.] [E. H. B.]VIADUS (Ovi'aJot), a river of Germany, westof the Vistula, mentioned by both Ptolemy (ii. 11.§ 2) and Marcianus (p. 53) as flowing into theMare Suevicum or Baltic Neither of these authorsmentions either its source or its course, but it isgenerally assumed to he the Oder. Ptolemy inanother passage (ii. 11. § IS) mentions, accordingto the common reading, a river 'looofa, whicheome regard as a tributary of the Viadus, and othersas a name of the upper Viadus; but Wilberg, thelatent editor of Ptolemy, treating 'IaSova as a corruptn^idlnjr. has altered it to Ovt'aoor. [L. S.] VIANA (Oiliara), a place in Rhaetia, on theroad from Vemania to Augusta Vindelicorum (Ptol.ii. IS. §4); it is marked in the Peutinger Table asVtaca, and its site is now occupied by a place calledWageck. [L. S.] VIATIA. [Beatta.]VIBI FORUM. [For™ Vibii.]VIBINUM, or VIBOXIUM ('HMnor: Botim),m town of Apulia, in the interior of that country, 7miles S. of Aecae (7'ro/a) and 15 from Luceria.Irs correct name is given by Pliny, who enumeratesthe Vibinates among the municipal communities ofAlalia, and by inscriptions which are still extant atliorvto, an episcopal town situated on one of thelower elopes of the Apennines, on the richt of therirer Cemrro (Cerbalus). (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16;H^'lAtrn, Sot. ad Clwer. p. 272.) There is noi>, tibt that it is the plaee of which the namei* cormptly written in Ptolemy, Vibamum (Owl­et apro*. iii-1. § 72), and which is called by PolvbiusVibonium ('lgiipior, for which we should probablyresul Oviftivtor. Schweigh. a/l loc.). The lattersiithnr distinctly places it among the, Daunian Apu-li-iris, and mentions that Hannibal established hiscaemp there, and thence laid waste the territoryuf Arpi and other neighbouring cities. (Polvb. iiLSS.J [K. H. U.] VIBIOXES (OiiisWer or ICfamt, Ptol. iii. 5.s S3). ■ people of European Sarmatia, on the N. siderf Moant liodinns, probably on the river /a-n or/efixa in Volhynia. [T. H. D.] VTBO, VIBO VALENTIA. [Hiitokium.]VIBONENSIS SINUS, another name of the Hip-poniates Sinns. [Hippoxhtm.] VICENTIA or V1CETIA (OJfcrrfa: Etk. Vi-centinus: Yicmm), a city of Venetia in the N. ofItaly, situated between Patavium and Verona,and dis­tant 22 miles from the former and 33 from the lattercity (Itin. Ant. p. 128 ; Itin. Titer, p. 559). Nomention is found of Vicentia before the Roman con­quest of this part of Italy, and the earliest record ofits existence is an inscription of the republican periodwhich informs us that the limits between its territoryand that of the Atestini were fixed and determinedby the proconsul Sex. Atilius Saranus in B.C. 136.(Orel!. Inter. 3110.) It is also incidentally men­tioned as one of the municipal towns in the N. ofItaly, in B.c 43. (Cic ad Fam. xi. 19.) Strabonotices it as one of the minor towns of Venetia, andTacitus tells us that it was taken by Antonius, thegeneral of Vespasian, on his advance from Pataviumto Verona, in a manner that sufficiently proves it notto have been a town of any great importance. (Tac.Hilt. iii. 8 ; Strab. v. p. 214.) But it always con­tinued to be a municipal town, and the younger Plinymentions a cause in which the Vicentini wereengaged before the Roman Senate in defence of theirmunicipal rights. (Plin. Ep. v. 4. 14.) Wo learnalso from Suetonius that it was the birthplace of thegrammarian Remmius Palaemon. (Suet. Gramm.23.) It is noticed also by both Pliny and Ptolemy,as well as in the Itineraries, and evidently continuedtill near the cloee of the Roman Empire, to be a mu­nicipal town of some consideration, though very in­ferior to its opulent neighbours, Verona and Pata­vium. (Plin. iii. 19. s. 23 ; Ptol. iii. 1. § 30;Orell. Inter. 3219). It sufTered severely in commonwith most of the cities of Venetia from the invasionof At'ila (a.d. 452), by whom it was laid wastewith fire and sword (Ilitt. Mitctll. xv. p. 549), butit recovered from this catastrophe, and appears againunder the Lombards as a considerable city of Venetia(P. Diac. ii. 14, v. 39). During the middle agesit became for some time an independent republic, andis still a populous city with about 30,000 inhabit­ant", but has no remains of antiquity. The name is written in inscriptions Vicctia, whichhas been restored by recent editors as the true read­ing both in Pliny and in Tacitus, but it is certainthat before the close of the Roman Empire the nameVicentia (which has been retained in the modernVieema) was already in use. [E. H. B.] VIC1ANUM, a place in Moesia (Tab. rent),probably the Bf'pfara of Procopius (de Aid. iv. 4.p. 281), and the present Nova lierda, [T. H. D.] VICTORIA (Ouorritpta, Ptol. ii. 3. § 9). themost eastern place belonging to the Damnonii inBritannia Barbara. Camden (p. 1190) thinks thatit is Bode's Caer Gvidi. and that it stood on Inch~keilh Itlaml, in the Frilk of Forth; but Horsley isof opinion that it is Abernethy, near Perth. [T. 1I.I>.] VICTO'RIAE MONS, a mountain in HispaniaCiterior, near the Iberus. (Liv. xxiv. 41.) [T. H. D.] VICTO'RIAE PORTUS, a haven belonging to•Tnliobriga, a town of the Cantabri in Hispania Tar-raconensis. (Plin. iv. 20. s. 34.) Now Snnttmna.(Cf. Florex, Ftp. Soar. xxiv. p. 9.) [T. H. D.] VICTUMVIAE. [Ticisia]. VICUS ALEXANDRI. [Via OsTtiarew.] VICUS AMBIATINUS. [Ambiatisus.] VICUS AQUA'RIUS, a place in the territory ofthe Vaccaci in Hispania Tarraconcnsis (/(m. AnL