OCR Output i98 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII. ans to raise those pans of their wall to a greater height,and to take the guard of it upon themselvts, as amongstthe body of their confederates they had divided theguard of the rest of their works, allotting a propercharge to each. Nicias also judged it expedient to fortify the spot cal­led Plemmyrium. Plemmyrium is a point of landover-against Syracuse, which, jutting out before thegreat harbour, renders the mouth of it very narrow."If this were fortified," he thought " the importa-*' tion of necessaries for the army would be better se-*' cured; because then, from a smaller distance, they*' could at any time command the harbour where the"Syracusan shipping lay; and, should it be their ill—"fortune to be straitened by sea, might easier fetch in"supplies than in the present station of their fleet atM the bottom of the great harbour." Now also he be­gan, with greater attention than before, to study howto distress them by sea; convinced, since the arrival ofGylippus, how little room he had to hope for successby land. To this spot therefore he ordered his fleet,and drew his land-forces down, and immediately erectedthree forts. In these the greatest part of the baggagewas laid up; and the transports and tight ships wereimmediately stationed there. To this project, however,the havock that afterwards ensued amongst the seamenis principally to be ascribed: for, as they suffered inthis station under scarcity of water, and the marinerswere frequently obliged to fetch both water and woodfrom a distance, since near at hand they were not to behad, the Syraculan horse, who were masters of thecountry, slaughtered them in abundance. The Syra-cusans had posted a third part of their cavalry at theirfcrtreis of Olyrrpiæum, to bridle the marauding ex­cursions of the enemy at Plemmyrium. Now also Nicias received intelligence that the otherCorinthian ships were in their passage. To watch theirapproach, he therefore detached twenty sail, who were appointed