OCR Output 326 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA. Cinna andSulla. Italy andthe pro­vinces infavour ofthe govern­ment. 87. a very unnecessary way by a meaningless disregard of theconstitutional rules of election. The capitalist party mighthave furnished some support, and it was injured in the mostsensitive point by the law as to debt. The true mainstay ofthe government was—wholly without any co-operation onits part—the new burgesses; their assistance was acquiescedin, but nothing was done to regulate the strange position ofthe Samnites, who were now nominally Roman citizens, butevidently regarded their country's independence as practi­cally the real object and prize of the struggle and remainedin arms to defend it against all and sundry. Illustrioussenators were struck down like mad dogs; but not thesmallest step was taken to reorganize the senate in theinterest of the government, or even permanently to terrifyit; bo that the government was by no means sure of itsaid. Gaius Gracchus had not understood the fall of the oli­garchy as implying that the new master might conduct him­self on his self-created throne, as legitimate cipher-kingsthink proper to do. But this Cinna had been elevated topower not by his will, but by pure accident; was there anywonder, that he remained where the stormy wave of revolu­tion had washed him up, till a second wave came to sweephim away again? The same union of the mightiest plenitude of power withthe most utter impotence and incapacity in those who heldit, was apparent in the warfare waged by the revolutionarygovernment against the oligarchy—a warfare on which itsexistence primarily depended. In Italy it ruled with abso­lute sway. Of the old burgesses a very large portion wereon principle favourable to democratic views; and the stillgreater mass of quiet people, while disapproving the Marianhorrors, saw in an oligarchic restoration simply the com­mencement of a second reign of terror by the opposite parry.The impression of the outrages of 667 on the nation at largehad been comparatively slight, as they had chiefly affectedthe mere aristocracy of the capital; and it was moreoversomewhat effaced by the three years of tolerably peaceful •government that ensued. Lastly the whole mass of the newburgesses—three-fifths perhaps of the Italians—were de­cidedly, if not favourable to the present government, yetopposed to the oligarchy. Like Italy, most of the provinces adhered to the oligarchy:—Sicily, Sardinia, the two Gauls, the two Spains. In Africa