OCR Output 218 ROMAN EMPIRE. eastern ^e translation of the empire to the less ortho-^re;74 dox Charlemagne. They were compelled to—BOO. choose between the rival nations; religion wasnot the sole motive of their choice; and while they dis­sembled the failings of their friends, they beheld, withreluctance and suspicion, the Catholic virtues of theirfoes. iThe difference of language and manners had per­petuated the enmity of the two capitals; and they werealienated from each other by the hostile opposition ofseventy years. In that schism the Romans had tasted offreedom, and the popes of sovereignty; their submissionwould have exposed them to the revenge of a jealoustyrant; and the revolution of Italy had betrayed the im­potence, as well as the tyranny, of the Byzantine court.The Greek emperors had restored the images, but theyhad not restored the Calabrian estates'1 and the Illyriandiocess/ which the Iconoclasts had torn away from thesuccessors of St. Peter; and pope Hadrian threatensthem with a sentence of excommunication unless theyspeedily abjure this practical heresy.* The Greeks werenow orthodox, but their religion might be tainted bythe breath of the reigning monarch: the Franks werenow contumacious; but a discerning eye might discerntheir approaching conversion from the use, to the adora­tion, of images. The name of Charlemagne was stainedby the polemic acrimony of his scribes; but the con­ i Theophanes (p. 343.) specifies those of Sicily and Calabria, which yielded anannual rent of three talents and a half of gold (perhaps seven thousand poundssterling). Liutprand more pompously enumerates the patrimonies of the Romanchurch in Greece, Judea, Persia, Mesopotamia, Babylonia, Egypt, and Libya,which were detained by the injustice of the Greek emperor. (Legat. ad Nicepho-mm, in Script. Rerum Italicarum, torn. 2. pars. 1. p. 481.) r The great diocess of the eastern Illyricum, with Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily;(Thomassin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 145.) by the confession of the Greeks,the patriarch of Constantinople had detached from Rome the metropolitans of Thes-salonica, Athens, Corinth, Nicopolis, and Patra; (Luc. Holsten. Geograph. Sacra,(p. 22.) and his spiritual conquests extended to Naples and Amalphi. (Giannone,Istoria Civile di Napoli, torn. 1. p. 517—524. Pagi, A. D. 730. no. 11.) • In hoc ostenditur, quia ex uno capitulo ab errore reversis, in aliis duobus, ineodem (was it the same ?) permaneant errore . . . . de diocesi S. R. E. seu de pa-trimoniis interum increpantes commonemus, ut si ea restituere noluerit hereticumeum pro hujusmodi enore persevantii decememus; (Epist. Hadrian. Papae ad Ca-rolum Magnum, in Concil. torn. 8. p. 1598.) to which he adds a reason, mostdirectly opposite to his conduct, that he preferred the salvation of souls and ruleof faith to the goods of this transitory world.