OCR Output 246 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. difference between them, and that in theprogress of that difference they came to anopen quarrel; and that one was smitten bythe other and was dead, and she desired himto interpose in this case, and to save this herson from her kindred, who were very zealousto have him that had slain his brother put todeath; that so she might not be farther de­prived of the hopes she had of being takencare of in her old age by him; and that if hewould hinder this slaughter of her son, bythose that wished for it, he would do her agreat favour, because the kindred would notbe restrained from their purpose by any thingelse than by the fear of him. And when the king had given his consentto what the woman had begged of him, shemade this reply, "I owe thee thanks for thybenignity to me in pitying my old age, andpreventing the loss of my only remainingchild. But in order to assure me of this thykindness, be first reconciled to thine own son,and cease to be angry with him. For howshall I persuade myself that thou hast reallybestowed this favour upon me, while thouthyself continuest after the like manner in thywrath to thine own son? For it is a foolishthing to add wilfully another to thy dead son;while the death of the other was broughtabout without thy consent." The king nowperceived that this pretended story was afabrication devised by Joab; and when uponinquiry of the old woman, he understood itto be so in reality, he called for Joab, andtold him, he had obtained what he requested,according to his own mind; and he bade himbring Absalom back,* for he was not nowdispleased, but had already ceased to beangry with him. So Joab bowed himself down to the king, and went immediately toGeshur, and brought Absalom with him toJerusalem. However the king sent a message to hisson beforehand, as he was coming, and com­manded him to retire to his own house; forhe was not yet in such a disposition as tothink fit to see him. Accordingly, upon thefather's command, he avoided coming intohis presence; and contented himself with therespects paid him by his own family only.Now his beauty was not impaired, either bythe grief he had been under, or by the wantof such care as was proper to be taken of aking's son; for he still surpassed all men inthe tallness of his stature, and was moreeminent in a fine appearance, than those thatdieted the most luxuriously. And indeedsuch was the thickness of the hair of his head,that it was with difficulty he was polled everyeighth day, and his hairf weighed two hun­dred shekels, which are five pounds. How­ever, he dwelt in Jerusalem two years, andbecame the father of three sons and onebeautiful daughter; which daughter}: Reho-boam, the son of Solomon, took to wife after­wards, and had by her a son named Abijah.But Absalom sent to Joab, and desired himto pacify his father towards him; and to be­seech him to give him leave to come to seehim, and speak with him. But when Joabneglected so to do, he sent some of his ownservants, and set fire to the field that adjoinedto him; which thing when Joab understood,he came to Absalom, and accused him ofwhat he had done, and asked him the reasonwhy he did so? Absalom replied, " I havefound out this stratagem, that might bringthee to me, while thou hast taken no care to was taken off by a premeditated murder: he was slain inthe field, where there were no witnesses, whether thefact was wilfully done or no; whereas all the king's sonssaw Amnon barbarously murdered by his brother. And,lastly, he was her only son, by whom alone she couldhope to have her husband's name perpetuated; whereasDavid's family was in no danger of being extinct, evenalthough he had given up Absalom to justice. But therewas a great deal of policy in not making the similitude tooclose_and visible, lest the king should perceive the driftpf the woman's petition, before she had obtained a grantof pardon for her son, and came to make the applicationto the king. And though, upon her making the applica­tion, the king might have argued the disparity of the twooases, yet he thought proper to wave this, and admit herreasoning to be good, because he was as desirous to have Absalom recalled as were any of his subjects. Patrick'sCommentary. B. * 2 Sam. xiv. 21. t Of this weight of Absalom's hair, how in twenty orthirty years it might well amount to two hundred shekels,or to somewhat above six pounds avoirdupois, see theLiteral Accomplishment of Prophecies, p. 77, 78. Buta late very judicious author thinks that the Septuagintmeant not its weight, but its value was two hundred she­kels, Dr. Wall's critical notes on the Old Testamentupon 2 Sam. xiv. 26. It does not appear what was Jose-phus's opinion. He sets the text down honestly, as hefound it in his copies. Only he thought, that at the endof days when Absalom polled and weighed his hair, wasonce a week. } 2 Chron. xi. 20.