OCR Output . 25. ROMAN HISTORY. 230 CHAP. XXV. ~ - New disturbance from the . . HESE consuls gave way to L. Menucius and C.Nautius, who took under their consideration, the twocauses, that lay over undetermined the former year. Theconsuls would not hear of the law, nor the tribunes ofVolscius's trial, but ihe new Qutestors were men of greaterresolution and more weight. There were in that officeTitus Quinctius Gapitolinus, who had been thrice con足sul, and M. Valerius, the son of Valerius, and grandsonof Volscius. Quinctius, since Ceeso, the pride of the Ro足man youth, could neither be restored to his. family, northe state, thought it his duty to prosecute the man whohad given false evidence against him, and so deprivedhim of an opportunity of pleading his innocence, as faras law or justice would go. When Virginius, particularly, and the other tribuneswere bustling about the law, the consuls were allowedtwo months to examine it, and explain to the people themischief latent under it, after which they were to sufferit to be put to the vote. The concession of this respite,produced a general tranquillity all over the city; but itwas soon interrupted by the JEqui, who, having brokethe treaty they had made with the Romans the year be足fore, bad put themselves under the auspices of GracchusCltelius by far the most considerable man in their coun足try. Led on by him, they passed through the Lavicanterritories, entered the Tuscutan, which they ravagedwithout mercy, and laden with spoil, retired to the Algi-dus, where they encamped. Q. Fabius, Pubiius Volumnins, and A. Posthumius,were sent thither, ambassadors from Rome, to complainof the injuries, and demand restitution, agreeable to treaty.The general of the Jiqui, in return, ordered them, " to"deliver their commission from the Roman senate to the"oak tree; for at present, he had other business to mind."The oak tree, alluded to, was a large one hanging overliis tent; and by its branches forming a cool shade.Then one of the ambassadors, as he departed, said, " Let