OCR Output OF THE ROM AN EMPIRE. 479 or the spectators, very happily disposed them to adopt with the sameease, but with far greater justice, the authentic wonders of theevangelic history; and thus miracles that exceeded not the measure oftheir own experience, inspired them with the most lively assurance ofmysteries which were acknowledged to surpass the limits of theirunderstanding. It is this deep impression of supernatural truths,which has been so much celebrated under the name of faith; astate of mind described as the surest pledge of the divine favourand of future felicity, and recommended as the first or perhaps theonly merit of a Christian. According to the more rigid doctors,,the moral virtues, which may be equally practised by infidels, aredestitute of any value or efficacy in the work of our justification. .IV. But the primitive Christian demonstrated his faith by his The FOURTH virtues; and it was very justly supposed that the divine persuasion cause.• which enlightened or subdued the understanding, must, at the same first Chris-time, purify the heart and direct the actions of the believer. The tians*first apologists of Christianity who justify the innocence of theirbrethren, and the writers of a later period who celebrate the sanctityof their ancestors, display, in the most lively colours, the reforma­tion of manners which was introduced into the world by thepreaching of the gospel. As it is my intention to remark onlysuch human causes as were permitted to second the influence ofrevelation, I shall slightly mention two motives which mightnaturally render the lives of the primitive Christians much purerand more austere than those of their Pagan contemporaries or theirdegenerate successors; repentance for their past sins, and the laudabledesire of supporting the reputation of the society in which they wereengaged. It is a very ancient reproach, suggested by the ignorance or the Effect*-ofmalice of infidelity, that the Christians allured into their party the ince.most atrocious criminals, who, as soon as they were touched by afense of remorse, were easily persuaded to wash away, in the water. their rej ent­ . 5 of