OCR Output 426 NICOPOLIS. NICOPOLIS. § 3; Itin. Ant. pp. 183, 207, 215; Hieroel p. 703;Steph. B. s. ».). Most travellers and antiquaries areagreed, that Nicopolis is represented by the modernTurkish town of Devriki; but as this place is situ­ated on a tributary of the Euphrates, the opinion isopposed to the statements of our authorities, espe­cially the " Acta Martyrum." Others are inclined toregard Kara-Jiissar,on the Lycus,as marking the siteof Nicopolis; but still the routes indicated in the Iti­neraries are in favour of Devriti; whence D'Anvilletoo identifies this place with Nicopolis, assuming thatthe error lies with the author of the "Acta Mar­tyrum," who expressly places Nicopolis on the riverLycos, 3. An episcopal see of uncertain site, in Lydia orIonia, mentioned by Hierocles (p. 660). [L. S.] 4. A town in Cilicia. [Issus.] 5. A town in Palestine. [Emmaub, No. 2.]NICOPOLIS. II. la Africa. A town in Aepypt, founded by Angnstus Caesar, in n. c. 24,on the field where he defeated, for the last time,M. Antonius, and in commemoration of the surrenderof Alexandria. (Strab. xvii. p. 795 ; Joseph. B.Jud. iv. 11; Dion Cass. li. 18; Steph. IS. t. r.) Theconqueror was at the moment highly incensed with theAlexandrians; and, by the foundation of a Romantown in their immediate neighbourhood, Bought tointlict a permanent blow on their political and com­mercial supremacy. Nicopolis was built a little W.of the Delta proper, on the banks of the canalwhich connected Canopus with the capital, andabout three and a half miles from its eastern gate.That it was intended for a city of the first rank ap­pears from its ground plan, which, however, was neverexecuted. Its founder built an amphitheatre anda diaulos, and established there Ludi Quinquennales,in honour of his victory ('AAc(aropfia, Spanheim,Epitt. v. § 3, ed Morell.); and coins bear on theirobverse the legend NIKOriOAIZ. 2EBA3T. KTI2T.He also designed to erect several temples, and totransfer to them the principal sacrifices and priest-colleges of the Macedonian capital. lint the wholescheme was a failure; the natural advantages ofAlexandreia were incontestable; and the Roman"City of Victory" was never more than than a subnrbof its rival. Within less than a century after its foun­dation, the name of Nicopolis disap[iears from history.A town called Juliopolis, mentioned by Pliny alone(vi. 23. s. 26), as seated on the same canal, andabout the same distance (20—30 blades) fromAlexandreia, is apparently Nicopolis (see Mannert,vol. x. p. 626). [W. B. D.] NICO'POLIS. III. In Europe. 1. AcityofEpeirus,erected by Augustus, in commemoration of tiro victoryof Actiutn, B.C. 31. It was situated near the entranceof the Ambraciot gulf, on the promontory of Epeirus,which is immediately opposite that of Actium inAcaniania. The extremity of the Epeirot promon­tory is now occupied by the town of Prettta; andNicopolis lay 3 miles to the N. of this town, on a lowisthmus separating the Ionian sea from the Ambraciotgulf. It was upon this isthmus tliat Augustus wasencamped before the battle of Actium. Ilis own tentwas pitched upon a height immediately above theisthmus, from whence he could see both the outersea towards Paxi, and the Ambraciot gulf, aswell as the parts towards Nicopolis. He fortifiedthe camp, and connected it by walls with the outerport, called Comarus. (Dion Cass. I. 12.) Afterthe battle he surrounded with stones the place wherehis own tent had been pitched, adorned it with naval ) trophies, and built within the enclosure a tasrraxrvof Neptune open to the sky. (Dion Cass. li. li.)But, according to Suetonius {Aay. 18). be dedicatedthis place to Neptune and Mars. The city waspeopled by inhabitants taken from Ambrecia, Acae-torium, Thyrinm, Argos AmpbiMchicum, and Cely-don. (Dion Cass. li. 1; Suet. Awg. 12; Strah. riLpp. 324, 325; Pans. v. 23. § 3, vii. 18. § 8, x. 3*.§ 4.) Augustus instituted at Ntcopoiis a quin­quennial festival, called Actia, in commemoratu rfhis victory. This festival was sacred to Apollo, andwas celebrated with music and gymnastic ran.e-.horse-racing and sea-fights. It was probably ib*revival of an old festival, since there was an aivciecttemple cf Apollo on the promontory of Aniom.which is mentioned by Thucydides (i. 29), and wasenlarged by Augustus. The festival was declaredby Augustus to be a sacred contest, by which it wasmade equal to the four great Grecian games; it wasplaced under the superintendence of the Lacedae­monians. (Dion Cass., Suet., Strab., U. ec) Aa-gustus caused Nicopolis to be admitted into theAmphictyonic council (Pan*, x. 38. § 3). and nudeit a Roman colony. (Plin. iv. 1. s. 2; Tar. A**.v. 10.) A Christian church appears to have beeafounded at Nicopolis by the Apostle PauL sinre Ledates his letter to Titus from Nicopolis of Mace­donia, which was most probably the colony of Au­gustus, and not the town in Thrace, as sutne surrasupposed. Nicopolis continued to be the chief cityin Western Greece for a long time, but it had al­ready fallen into decoy in the reign of Julian, sharewe find that th« emperor restored both the tKjand the games. (Mamertin. Julian. 9.) At the be­ginning of the fifth century it was plundered by theGoths. (Procop. B. Goth. iv. 22.) It was apsisrestored by Justinian (d* Atdif. iv. 2), and was stillin the sixth century the capital of Kptirua. (Hjerad.p. 651, ed. Weasel.) In the middle ages Nicopohesunk into insignificance, and the town of Prrrtmm,built at the extremity of the promontory, at Ircrthabsorbed all its inhabitants, and was doobtle*. aa atsimilar cases, chiefly constructed oat of the roina efthe ancient city. The ruins of Nicopolis are still very considerable.They stretch across the narrowest part of theisthmus already described. Strabo (til p. Sj4)erroneously describes the isthmus as 60 stadia uibreadth; but the broadest part, from the emitb-eastern extremity of the lagoon called ilAsomm taMytikOy is only three miles; while the ranvvmapart is less than half that distance, since theeastern hnlf of the isthmus is occupied by the lectseiof Mazoma. This lagoon is separated frum theAmbraciot gulf only by a narrow thread of latj.which is a mile long, and has openings, where tl«fish are caught in great numbers, as they enter \imlagoon in the winter and quit it in the summer. Dmillustrates the statement of an ancient re.-era (*»»*.that fish was so plentiful at Nicopolis at t« t*almost disgusting. (Geogr. Grate. JUim. vol. ni p.13, ed. Hudson.) Nicopolis hail two harbour*, •4'which Strabo (vii. p. 324) says that the nearer aadsmaller was called Comarus (K«Vaoei), while thefurther, and larger, and better one, was near themouth of the gulf, distant about 12 stadia frraNicopolis. It would appear, that Strabo r»«jrt-.T-lboth the ports to have been on the wrstrni reaKoutside .the gulf; but it U evident from the aetaseof the western coast that this cannot have hc»i thecase. Moreover, Dion Cassius (1.12) calls Ctxnaraa