OCR Output 310 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. bels he slew, and others of them, who had fled to the strong­holds, he besieged, and both slew them, and demolished theirstrongholds: and when he had thus put an end to their re­bellion, he laid a fine upon the cities of a hundred talents. 7. In the meantime Pacorus was fallen in a battle, and theParthians were defeated. When Ventidius sent Macherus to theassistance of Herod, with two legions and a thousand horsemen,while Antony encouraged him to make haste. But Macherus,at the instigation of Antigonus, without the approbation of He­rod, as being corrupted by money, went about to take a view ofhis affairs: but Antigonus suspecting this intention of his coming,did not admit him into the city, but kept him at a distance, withthrowing stones at him, and plainly showed what he himselfmeant. But when Macherus was sensible that Herod had givenhim good advice, and that he had made a mistake hinuelf in nothearkening to the advice, he retired to the city Emmaus; andwhat Jews he met with he slew them, whether they were ene­mies, or friends, out of the rage he was in at what hardships hehad undergone. The king was provoked at this conduct of his,and went to Samaria, and resolved to go to Antony about theseaffairs, and to inform him that he stood in no need of suchhelpers who did him more mischief than they did his enemies,and that he was able of himself to beat Antigonus; but Macherhsfollowed him, and desired that he would not go to Antony, or,if he was resolved to go, that he would join his brother Jo­seph with them, and let them fight against Antigonus. So hewas reconciled to Macherus, upon his earnest entreaties. Ac­cordingly he left Joseph there with his army, but charged himto run no hazards, nor to quarrel with Macherus. 8. But for his own part, he made haste to Antony, (who wasthen at the siege of Samosata, a place upon Euphrates,) with histroops, both horsemen and footmen, to be auxiliaries to him:and when he came to Antioch, and met there a great numberof men gotten together that were very desirous to go to Antony,but durst not venture to go out of fear, because the Barba­rians fell upon men on the road, and slew many, so he encour­aged them, and became their conductor upon the road. Nowwhen they were within two days' march of Samosata, the Barba­rians had laid an ambush there to disturb those that came to An­tony, and there the woods made the passes narrow, as they led tothe plains, where they laid not a few of their horsemen, who'were to lie still until those passengers were gone by into the wideplace. Now as soon as their first ranks were gone by, (for He­rod brought on the rear,) those that lay in ambush, who wereabout five hundred, fell upon them on the sudden,'and when theyhad put the. foremost to flight, the king came riding hard, with"