OCR Output TIIKKAMBOS. THERMOPYLAE. 1161 era wu the nunc of the city, supposing that\n here signifies only the political community ofTVriAtnf. Chi the other band, it was so usualthe islands of the Aegaean to poetess a capital ofmot name, that, taken in connection with thenp.'jon last mentioned, it is probable, either that■uoij has accidentally omitted the name of theor that in his time the Theraeans had re-f.i from the lofty site at Messa- Vouno toOea upontea-roast at Kamari, where submarine ruins stillUpon the other or S. side of the Cape Messa-imw, at i'erissa, there are also so many ancient re­in w to lead us to suppose that this was the site ofuicwat city, but no inscription has beeu discovered•111 a clae to its name. Upon either side of theii.tain of Mtsta- Vouno there are numerous tombs,loath of Veritta is C. Eromiti, and a little toX. of this cape there are the remains of anfin city, which is probably the EIcums of Pto-r. Here are the ruins of a mole under water,upjfl the tide of tlie mountain many curious■k There are likewise some ruins and tombsf. KUumboi in the NE. of the island, whichi object ores may be the site of Melaenae. The>.i «f Tbcrasia |xwses»ed a town of the samer(r*toL iii. 15. § S8), the ruins of which weretrivd by Ko»ss opposite Epanomeria in Thcra.udes the earlier writers, aucb as Tournefort andn, the reader is particularly referred to Koss,em an J den Griechischen Irwin, vol. i. pp. 53. »eq., 180, «q.; and Lieut. Leycester, Somemmi of the Volcanic Group of Santorin or>*a, ia the Jtmrnal of the lioyal Geograplucaltty, rot xx. p. 1, acq.) HEKAMBOS or THKAMBUS (BtpdpSws,d tu» 123; ©pofttfoi, Steph. B. a. v.; &pap€nU,u. p. 26; SpapJSovala. ottpds, Lycophr. 1404),«ti nf the peninsula Pallene, in Chalcidice in^••rtia, id called a promontory by Slephanus II.,it lean supposed by Leake (Northern Greece,a. p. 156) to bare occupied a position very nearpromontory Caiiastraeum, the most southerly "f J'allene; but from the order of the names inli «e would rather place it at the promontory tie western side of the peninsula, called Posi-> by Thucydidea (ir. 129).1EKAXDA, * town of Moesia, now Trenonitzarr. Rar. it. 15; Tab. PeiU.). [T. H. D.]&&APXAE (efodwwu: Eth. Btparfcuof), a iu Um territory of Thebes, between this city■n Asopus. (Eurip, Bacck. 1029 ; Strab. ix.9: Leake. Northern Greece, vol ii. p. 369.)1KHAPNE. [Spakta, p. 1029, b.]iKKA'SlA. [Thera.]IE HI O DES SINUS (enpwWjj* k6\t0$, Ptol. i 2), i gulf on the coast of the Sinae, be-i tba promontories Notium (NoVior), and■fi (Sarvpwr). Perhaps the gulf of Tonkin,it between tlie Cape i>L James and the river■H^l [T. H. IX] IhVMA. f Thessau>mca.]IKKMAE (&*ppxu) was the name of two cities:!*. both of which derived their name from theiran m the neighbourhood of hot springs. .Tbe northern Thermae, sometimes culled forriMo'i sake TiikrmaK Himkrknmih (iu.w«<i), wm* t»itoated ou the N. coast of tlie island, i-nmediate neighbourhood of the more ancientf llutiera, to tlie place of which it may be con-J a» succeeding. Hence its history is given in 2. The southern Thermae, or Thermae Seu-numtiak (Sciacca), was situated on the SW. coast ofthe island, and,as its name imports, within the territoryof Sclinus, though at a distance of 20 miles fromthat city in the direction of Agrigentum. Therecan be no doubt that it occupied the same site asthe modern town of Sciacca, about midway betweenthe site of Selinus and the month of the river Haly-cus (Platani). where there still exist sulphureouswaters, which are in constant use. (Smyth's Sicily,p. 217; Cluver, Sicil p. 223.) We have no accountof the existence of a town on the site during theperiod of the independence of Selinus, though therois little doubt that the thermal waters would alwayshave attracted some population to the t>pot. Noreven under the Romans did the place attain to any­thing like the same importance with the northernThermae; and there is little doubt that Pliny ismistaken in assigning the rank of a colonia to thesouthern instead of the northern town of the name.[LiiMKKA.] Strabo mentions the waters (to. voarato. StAii'uwTia, Strab. vi. p. 275); and they amagain noticed in the Itineraries under the name ofAquae Labodes or Labrodes (/fin. Ant. p. 89; Tub.Pent.) [E. H. B.j THERMAICUS SINUS, [TmasAuancA.] THEKMO'DOX (G*ppu**p: 7'AennM),ariverofPont us, celebrated in the story about the Amazons,i» described by Pliny (vi. 3) as having iu sourcesin the Amazonian mountains, which are not men­tioned by any other ancient writer, but are believedstill to retain their ancient name in the form ofMason fJagh. (Hamilton, Kesearc/iej, i. p. 28.1.)Strabo (xii. p. 547J places ita many sources nearPhanaroea, and says that many streams combine toform the Tbennodon. Its course is not very lone,but its breadth was nevertheless three plelhra, and itwas a navigable river (X«*n. A nab. v. 6. § 9( vi. 2.§ 1; A man, PeripL P.E. p. 16.) It dischargedit.self into tlie Eimne near tlie town of Themiscvra,at a distance of 400 stadia to the north-fa* t of themouth of the Iris. This river ia very often noticedby ancient writers. See Aeschyl. 7Vimi. 274, Suppl.290; Herod, ix. 27; Scylax, p. 33; Strab. L p. 52,vii. p. 298 ; Anon. Peripl. P. E. p, 10 ; Ptol. v. 6.§ 4; Pomp. Mela. I 19; Plin. xl 19, xxxvii. 37;Virg. Aen, xl 659; Or. ex Pont. ir. 19. 51 ; Pro-pert, iv. 4. 71. and many other passages. [L. S.] THERMO'PYLAE \&*ppowvhat), or aimptyPYLAE (n^Aoi), that is, the Hot Gates or theGates, a celebrated narrow pass, leading fromThesMtly into Locris, and the only nad by whichan enemy can penetrate from northern into southernGreece. It lay between Mount Oeta ami an in­accessible inorass, funning the eJge of the aluliau^ulf. Iu cun»e»]uence of the change in tlie course ofthe rivers, and in the conriguralitai of the coast,this pass is now very different from its conditioniu ancient times; und it is therefore necessaryHrst to give the statement of Herodotus and otherancient writers respecting the locality, and then tocompare it with its present state. In the time ofHerodotus the river Spercheiua tiowed into the M*ain an easterly direction at the town of Ant icy ra,considerably \Y. of the pass. Twenty stadia E.of the Spercheiua was another river, called Dvras,and again, 20 stadia further, a third river, namedMelas, 5 stadia from which was the city Tracln*.Between the mountains where Trachis btauds andthe tea the plain is widest. Still further E. « j*the Asopus, issuing from a rocky gorge (xiao-^u{).