OCR Output 558 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Salome chose to follow not the law of hercountry, but the law of her authority; and so .renounced her wedlock; and told her brotherHerod, that she left her husband out of hergood will to him; because she perceived,that he, with Antipater, and Lysimachus, andDositheus, were raising a sedition against him.As an evidence of which she alleged the caseof the sons of Babas; that they had been byhim preserved alive already for the intervalof twelve years: which proved to be true.But when Herod thus unexpectedly heard ofit, he was greatly surprised at it: and themore so, because the relation appeared in­credible to him. As for the fact relating tothese sons of Babas, Herod had formerlytaken great pains to bring them to punish­ment, as being enemies to his government.But they were now forgotten by him, on ac­count of the length of time since he had or­dered them to be slain. Now the cause of hisill will and hatred to them arose hence; thatwhile Antigonus was king, Herod, with hisarmy, besieged the city of Jerusalem; wherethe distress and miseries which the besiegedendured were so pressing, that the greatnumber of them invited Herod into the city,and already placed their hopes on him. Nowthe sons of Babas were of great dignity, andhad power among the multitude; and werefaithful to Antigonus, and were always raisingcalumnies against Herod; and encouragedthe people to preserve the government tothat royal family which held it by inheritance.So these men acted thus politically, and, asthey thought, for their own advantage. Butwhen the city was taken, and Herod hadgotten the government into his hands, andCostobarus was appointed to hinder menfrom passing out at the gates, and to guardthe city; that those citizens that were of theparty opposite to the king might not get outof it; Costobarus, being sensible that thesons of Babas were had in respect and honourby the whole multitude, and supposing thattheir preservation might be of great advan­tage to him in the changes of governmentafterward; set them by themselves, and con­cealed them in his own farms. And whenthe thing was suspected, he assured Herodupon oath that he knew nothing of the matter:and so overcame the suspicions that lay uponhim. Nay, after that, when the king had publicly proposed a reward for the discovery,and had put in practice all sorts of methodsfor searching out this matter, he would notconfess it. But being persuaded that whenhe had at first denied it, if the men werefound, he should not escape unpunished, hewas forced to keep them secret; not only outof his good will to them, but out of a neces­sary regard to his own preservation. Butwhen the king knew the thing, by his sister'sinformation, he sent men to the places wherehe had the intimation they were concealed;and ordered both them, and those that wereaccused as guilty with them, to be slain.Insomuch that there were now none left ofthe kindred of Hyrcanus: and the kingdomwas entirely in Herod's power; and there wasnobody remaining of such dignity as couldput a stop to what he did against the Jewishlaws. v CHAP. VIII. OF A CONSPIRACY AGAINST HEROD, FOR THE FOREIGNPRACTICES HE HAD INTRODUCED J AND OF THE BUILD­ING OF SEBASTE, CESAREA, AND OTHER EDIFICES. ON this account Herod revolted from thelaws of his country, and corrupted theirancient constitution, by the introduction offoreign practices: which constitution yetought to have been preserved inviolable.By which means we became guilty of greatwickedness afterward; while those religiousobservances, which used to lead the multi­tude to piety, were now neglected. For, inthe first place, he appointed solemn gamesto be celebrated every fifth year, in honourof Caesar; and built a theatre at Jerusalem;as also a very great amphitheatre in theplain. Both of them were indeed costlyworks; but opposite to the Jewish customs.For we have had no such shews delivereddown to us fit to be used or exhibited by us.Yet did he celebrate these games every fiveyears, in the most solemn and splendid man­ner. He also made proclamation to theneighbouring countries, and called men to­gether out of every nation. The wrestlersalso, and the rest of those that strove for theprizes in such games, were invited out ofevery land; both by the hopes of the rewardsthere to be bestowed; and by the glory ofvictory to be there gained. So the principal