OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. G? ing him, a decree was made ' that Brutulus Papiusshould be delivered into the hands of the Romans; andthat, together with him, all the spoil taken from theRomans and the prisoners should be sent to Rome,and that the restitution demanded by the heralds, inconformity to treaty, should be made, as was agreeableto justice and equity.' In pursuance of this determi­nation heralds were sent to Rome, and also the deadbody of Brutulus; for, by a voluntary death, he avoidedthe punishment and ignominy intended for him. Itwas thought proper that his goods also should be de­livered up along with the body. But none of all thosethings were accepted, except the prisoners, and sucharticles of the spoil as were recognised by the owners.The dictator obtained a triumph by a decree of thesenate. 40. Some writers affirm that the consuls had the con­duct of this war, and that they triumphed over the Sam-nites; and also, that Fabius advanced into Apulia, andcarried off from thence abundance of spoil. But thatAulus Cornelius was dictator that year is an undis­puted fact. The question then is, whether he was ap­pointed for the purpose of conducting the war, or onoccasion of the illness of Lucius Plautius, the pretor,in order that there might be a magistrate to give thesignal for the starting of the chariots at the Romangames. This latter is asserted of him ; and that afterperforming the' business, which in truth reflected nogreat lustre on his office, he resigned the dictatorship.It is not easy to determine between either the facts orthe writers, which of them deserves the preference : Iam persuaded that history has been much corrupted bymeans of funeral panegyrics, and false inscriptions onmonuments; each family striving by false representa­tions to appropriate to itself the fame of warlike ex­ploits and public honors. From this cause, certainly,much confusion has taken place, both in the memoirsof individuals, and in the public records of events. Noris there extant any writer, contemporary with thoseevents, on whose authority we can with certainty rely.