OCR Output 344 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. the nearest divisions and embarked at New Carthage—forwhat destination he knew not himself, perhaps for the coastof Africa, or for the Canary Islands—it mattered littlewhither, provided only Sulla's arm did not reach him. Spainthen willingly submitted to the Sullan magistrates (about81- 673) and Flaccus fought successfully with the Celts, throughwhose territory he marched, and with the Spanish Celti-80. berians (674).Sicily. Gmaeus Fompeius was sent as propraetor to Sicily, and, when he appeared on the coast with 120 sail and six legions,the island was evacuated by Perpenna without resistance.Pompeius sent a squadron thence to Cossyra, which cap­tured the Marian officers sojourning there. Marcus Brutusand the others were immediately executed; but Pompeius hadenjoined that the consul Carbo should be brought before him­self at Lilybaeum in order that, unmindful of the protec­tion accorded to him in a season of peril by that very man(P. 332), lie might personally hand him over to the exeeu-82. tioner(672).Africa. Having been ordered to go on to Africa, Pompeius van­ quished the not inconsiderable forces collected by Aheno-barbus and Hiarbas with his far more numerous army in apitched battle and, declining for the time to be saluted asimperator, he at once gave the signal for the assault of theenemy's camp. He thus became master of the enemy in oneday; Ahenobarbus was among the fallen: with the aid ofking Bogud Hiarbas was seized and slain at Bulla, andHiempsal was reinstated in his hereditary kingdom; a greatrazzia against the inhabitants of the desert, among whoma number of Gaetulian tribes recognized as free by Mariuswere made subject to Hiempsal, revived in Africa also thefallen repute of the Roman name: in forty days after Pom-80. peius' landing in Africa all was at an end (674 ?). Thesenate instructed him to break up his army—an impliedhint that he was not to be allowed a triumph, to which asan extraordinary magistrate he could according to precedentmake no claim. The general murmured secretly, the soldiersloudly; it seemed for a moment as if the African armywould revolt against the senate and Sulla would have to takethe field against his son-in-law. But Sulla yielded, andallowed the young man to boast of being the only Romanwho had become a triumphator before he was a senator79. (12 March, 675); in fact the "Fortunate," not perhaps