OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 241 the ecclesiastical order, whose liberty was connectedwith that of their chief. But the second attempt,though it was crowned with some partial and apparentsuccess, has been vigorously resisted by the secularpower, and finally extinguished by the improvement ofhuman reason. In the revival of the empire of Rome, neither the Authority i . •• . , *• , _. of the em- bishop nor the people could bestow on Charle-SSnre.111 magne or Otho, the provinces which were lost, as they had been won, by the chance of arms.But the Romans were free to choose a master for them­selves: and the powers which had been delegated tothe patrician, were irrevocably granted to the Frenchand Saxon emperors of the west. The broken recordsof the times," preserve some remembrance of their pa­lace, their mint, their tribunal, their edicts, and thesword of justice, which, as late as the thirteenth century,was derived from Caesar to the prefect of the city.xBetween the arts of the popes and the violence of thepeople, this supremacy was crushed and annihilated.Content with the titles of emperor and Augustus, thesuccessors of Charlemagne neglected to assert this lo­cal jurisdiction. In the hour of prosperity, their ambi­tion was diverted by more alluring objects; and in thedecay and division of the empire, they were oppressedby the defence of their hereditary provinces. Amidst the ruins of Italy, the famous Marozia invited Revolt of •" one oi the usurpers to assume the character of ''938' her third husband; and Hugh, king of Bur­gundy, was introduced by her faction into the mole ofHadrian or castle of St. Angelo, which commands theprincipal bridge and entrance of Rome. Her son bythe first marriage, Alberic, was compelled to attend atthe nuptial banquet; but his reluctant and ungraceful • For the history of the emperors in Rome and Italy, see Sigonius de Regnoit.ili.i-, Opp- torn. 2. with the notes of Saxius, and the Annals of Muratori, whomight refer more distinctly to the authors of his great collection. 1 See the Dissertation of Le Blanc at the end of his Treatise des Monnoyes deFrance, in which he produces some Roman coins of the French emperort. VOL. VI. R