OCR Output 78 THE PELOPONNESIAN'WAR. tiona* son of Pausanias their king who was yet a minor;and having forced the Phocians to surrender upon terms thetown they had taken, were preparing for their return. Now,in case they attempted it by passing over the sea in the gulfof Crissa, the Athenians having got round with a squadronwere ready to obstruct it. Nor did they judge it safe to at.tempt it by way of Geranea, as Megara and Pegai were inthe hands of the Athenians ; for the pass of Geranea is everdifficult, and now was constantly guarded by the Athenians ;and should they venture this route, they perceived that theAthenians were there also ready to intercept them. They de­termined at last to halt for a time in Boeotia, and watch foran opportunity to march away unmolested. Some citizensof Athens were now clandestinely practising with them, toobtain their concurrence in putting a stop to the democracyand the building of the long-walls. But the whole body ofthe Athenian people rushed out into the field against them,with a thousand Argives and the respective quotas of theirallies, in the whole amounting to fourteen thousand. Theyjudged them quite at a loss about the means of a retreat; andthe design also to overthrow their popular government beganto be suspected. Some Thessalian horsemen came also upto join the Athenians, in pursuance of treaty, who afterwardsin the heat of action revolted to the Lacedaemonians. They fought at Tanagra of Boeotia, and the victoryrested with the Lacedaemonians and allies; but the slaughterwas great on both sides. The Lacedaemonians afterwardstook their route through the district of Megara; and havingcut down the woods, returned to their own home throughGeranea, and the Isthmus. On the sixty-second day after the battle of Tanagra, theAthenians had taken the field against the Boeotians, underthe command of Myronides*. They engaged them, and • Plutarch in his Apothegm relates, that when Myronides was puttinghimself at the head of the Athenians on this occasion, his officers told him" they were not all come out yet into the field," he replied briskly, " Allare come out that will fight," and marched oft'.