OCR Output I 52 LECTOCE, AD LEBAKA. Ar' avrni (i. e. rjjj inJAiwr) rb &\(rot tov Tf>r>?w~viov, where there is little doubt that woTauds, orsome equivalent term, must be applied as thenominative of tuipyti. The ancient city would, inthat case, have stuod on the right or eastern bankof the river, which also appears probable from thenumerous fragments of antiquity still scattered overtiie eminence on this side of the river; and the proveof Truphnnius would have been on the western sideof the stream, on which the greater part of themodern town stands. The mast remarkable object in the prove of Tro-phonius was the temple of the hero, containing hisstatue by Praxiteles, resembling a statue of Ascle-pius; a temple of Demeter, sumutned Europe; asUtue of Zeus Hyetius (i'luvius) in the open air;and higher up, upon the mountain, the oracle (toftaMTtlov). Still higher up was the hunting place of1'ersephone; a large unfinished temple of Zeus Ila-sileus, a temple of Apollo, and another temple, con-taining statues of Cronus, Zeus, and Hera. 1'nu.ia- >nias likewise mentions a chapel of the Good Daemonand of Good Fortune, where those who were going tocon>nlt tlif oracle first passed a certain number ofdays. In the Turkish mosque, now converted into achurch of the 1'anagia, on the western side of theriver, three inscrijitions have been found, one ofwhich contains a dedication to Trophonius, and theother a catalogue of dedications in the temple ofTrophonius. (See Bockh, Inter. 1571, 1583.)Hence it has been inferred that the temple ofTrophouius occupied this site. Near the fountainof A'rya there is a square chamber, with seats cutout of the rock, which may perhaps be t!it chapelof the Good Daemon and Good Fortune. Near thischamber is a cavern, which is usually regarded asthe entrance to the oracle. It is 25 feet in depth,and teruiin.ites in a hollow filled witli water, butthis mold not have been the oracle, since the latter,according to the testimony lsith of I'iiu->anias andPhiiostratus, was not situated in the valley u|wnthe liercyna. but higher up upon the mountain.(1'aus. ix. 39. § 4; Philostr. ViL Apoll. viii. 19.)Mure justly expresses his surprise that Leake, afterquoting the description of l'ausanios, who says thatthe oracle was ixl too 6povt, should suppose thatit was situated at the foot of the hill. A person whoconsulted the oracle descended a well constructed ofmasonry, 12 feet in depth, at the bottom of whichwas a small opening on the bide of the wall. Uponrcadiing the bottom he lay upon his hack and in­troduced his legs into the hole, when upon a suddenthe rest of bis body was rapidly carried forwardinto the sanctuary. The site of the oracle has notjet been disc vered, and is not likely to be, withoutan extensive excavation. An account of the ritesobserved in consulting the oracle is given in theDid. of Antiq. p. 841, 2nd ed. (Dodwcll, Tourthrough Greece, vol. L p. 216, srq.; Leake, NorthernGreece, voL ii. p. 118, seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece,vol. i. p. 233, scq.; Ulriclis, Reiten in Griechen-Iand, p. 164, seq.) LEBAEA (Attain), an ancient city in UpperMacedonia, and the residence of the early Macedoniankings, mentioned only by Herodotus (viii. 137). LEBEN (AtfijK, Strab. x. p 478) or LEBEN'A(ArtVo, FtoL iii. 17. § 4; Staduum.; Plin. iv. 12;At€trn, Paus. ii. 26. § 7; Lcdeoa, I'eul. Tab.).a maritime town of Crete, which was a harbour ofOurtyna, about 70 stadia inland. (Strab. I. r.) It possessed a temple of Asclepins, of great celebrity(Philostrat. Yit. Apollim. ix. 11), and is representsby the modem hamlet of Leda. (Hock, Kreta, voLi. pp. 8,394,399.) [E. B. J.J LEBECII. [Libici.] LEBED'ONTIA, a town upon the coast of Ilu-pania Tarraconensis, situated u|*"ii the mountainSellus, at no great distance from Tarraco. It i>mentioned only by Avienus {Or. Marii. 509), inwho^e time, however, it had cea>cd to exist. LK'UEDOS (AttttSos: £lh. Axftoios), an an­cient city on the western coast of Asia Minor, 90stadia to the cast of Cape Myonnesus, and 120 tothe north-west of Colophon. (Strab. xiv. p. 643.)The place was originally inhabited by Cariaits, muii,on the immigration of the loniaus into Asia, it wastaken possession of by thein under the guidance ofAndraeuion, a son of Codrus. (Pans. vii. 3. § 2.)Strabo (xiv. p. 633), however, in speaking of thefoundation of the Ionian cities, states that it wascolonised by Andropompus and bis followers, hatingpreviously borne the name of Artis: the tomb oVAndraeinon, moreover, was shown in the neighbour­hood of Colophon, on the road crossing the riverHales. (1'aus. L c) For a long time Lebedoscontinued to be a city flourishing by its commerce,the fertility of its territory, and the excellent hotmineral springs in its neighbourhood, which stillexist. (Ilccat. Fraym. 219; Herod, i. 142'; Thucyd.viii. 19.) It was afterwards nearly destroyed byLysimachus, who transplanted its population u>Ephesus (1'aus. 1. c. i. 9. § 8); after which timeLebedos appears to have fallen more and more inUidecay, so that in the days of Horace it was more de­serted than Gabii or Fidenac. (Epitt. i 11. 7.) Itis mentioned, however, as late as the 7th century ofthe Christian era (Aeliau, V. B. viii. 5; 1'tol. v.2. § 7; Mela, i. 17; Plin. U. A', v. 31; Hirrocles,p. GGO) ; and the Romans, in order to raise the placrin some measure, established there the company »factors (Tf^iTai wtpl rbv AioKwrui-) who badformerly dwelt in Tens, whence during a ciwl cuin-motion they withdrew to Ephesus. At talus afu-r-wards transplanted them to Myonnesus; and theRomans, at the request of the Teians, transferredthem to Lebedos, where they were very welcome, a*the place was very thinly inhabited. At Lebedosthe actors of all Ionia as far as the Hellespont hadever after an annual meeting, at which games werecelebrated in honour of Dionysus. (Strab. xiv.p. C43.) The site of Lebedos is marked by aunwruins, now called KccUsia or Xingi, and con*i»tingof masses of naked stone and bricks, with conenuThere also exists the basement and an entire flourof a small temple; and nearer the sea there aretraces of ancient walls, and a few fragments of LV-riccolumns. (Chandler's ^Isia Minor, p. 125.) [L. X]I.EBINTHUS (Atocfloj), a small island iu theAegaean sea, one of the Sporades, NE. of Amurfru*.between which and Lebinthus lies the still smallerisland Cinarus. (Strab x. p. 487 ; Stepb. B. : r.Ap«irelwi; Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7, 11 ; Or.Mel. viii. 222, Ar.Am.llSX; Ross, Arise* on/dmGriech. lutein, vol. ii. p. 56.) LEBONAH, a town of Palestine, north of Shiloh,identified by ManndrcH with Lebim, a village 4 hoursS. of \,iplut. (Judy. xxi. 19; Winer, Bibluch. AW-wurtcrbwh, $. p.) LEBUNI. [Llbitasia.]LECHAEUM. [CowxTiirs, p. 682.]LECTUCE, AD, iu Gallia Narbuncnsis, u placed