OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 109 drove him only to make haste, like a man mortally woundedwho throws himself on the foe. The mother thought morenobly; but the son—with his deeply provoked, passionatelyexcited, thoroughly Italian nature—has been more lamentedthan blamed by posterity, and posterity has been right inits judgment. Tiberius Gracchus had come before the burgesses with a Alterationssingle administrative reform. What Gaius introduced in a made on theseries of separate proposals, was nothing else than an entirely constitutionnew constitution; the foundation-stone of which was fur- Gracchusnished by the innovation previously introduced, that atribune of the people should be at liberty to solicit re-elec­tion for the following year. While this step enabled thepopular chief to acquire a permanent position and onewhich protected its holder, the next object was to secure forhim material power or, in other words, to attach the multi­tude of the capital—for that no reliance was to be placed onthe country people coming only from time to time to thecity, had been sufficiently apparent—with its interests stead­fastly to its leader. This purpose was served, first of all, Pistribu-by introducing distributions of corn in the capital. The tion ofgrain accruing to the state from the provincial tenths had £raln-already been frequently given away at nominal prices to theburgesses (ii. 372). Gracchus enacted, that every burgesswho should personally present himself in the capital shouldthenceforth be allowed monthly a definite quantity—appa­rently 5 modii (lj bushel)—from the public stores, themodius being given at 6J- asses (3d) or not quite the half ofa low average price (ii. 373); for which purpose the publiccorn-stores were enlarged by the construction of the newSempronian granaries. This distribution—which conse­quently excluded the burgesses living out of the capital, andcould not but attract to Rome the whole mass of the burgess-proletariate—was designed to bring the burgess-proletariateof the capital, which hitherto had mainly depended on thearistocracy, into dependence on the leaders of the movement-party, and thus to supply the new master of the state at oncewith a body-guard and with a firm majority in the comitia. For change inthe greater security as regards the latter, moreover, the order the order ofof voting still subsisting in the comitia centuriata, according to votlDS-which the five property-classes in each tribe gave their votesone after another (ii. 353), was done away; instead of this,all the centuries were in future to vote after one another in