OCR Output 1*2 TITUS LIVIUS' BookV. When the news of this 'disaster reached Rome, thefeelings of every citizen were discernible in. their looks,and the senate was greatly concerned, from a a appre­hension, that it would be impossible to prevent a seditionin the city as well as in the camp," for the tribunes wouldnot fail to crow over the commonwealth, as on a victoryobtained. But instantly those who, by their valuation,were in the rank of knights, though they had not horsesassigned them by the public, having previously concert­ed among themselves, applied directly to the senate; andhaving obtained an audience, offered to equip themselvesat their own expence, for the public service. For thisgenerous office, the senate thanked them in the politestterms; and the news being circulated throtigh the forumand the city, brought the people, in' a moment, to thesenate-house by the lump; declaring that 'they were ofthat order which now served on foot; and though it wasout of their turn, that they were ready to serve at Veii,or wherever the senate should be pleased to lead them;at the same time, were they led to Veii, they declaredthat they would not return before that city was taken. The joy excited by a proposal so generous, was ex­cessive. The people were not ordered the thanks" of thehouse to be returned by the magistrates, as had beendone with respect to the knights; nor were any of themcalled into the senate-house, to hear their answer . Thesenators could not keep within doors; but out they ran,and from an eminence, every one in particular, by hiswords and gestures, expressed to the multitude that werestanding below in the coroitium, the general gladnessand exultation; such unanimity, they cried out, .wouldrender Rome happy,—invincible,—eternal. They prais­ed the knights, they praised the commons: nay, they ex­tolled the day,—the glorious day! They acknowledgedthe senate was now outdone" in kindness and benevo­lence. The two orders seemed to vie with each otherin weeping tears of joy, till at length the fathers warecalled back into the house, where they enacted, that'The military tribunes should, in an assembly of the'people, return thanks to both horse and foot, in name'of the Republic, and assure them that the senate would« never forget the regard they had shewn their country'on this occasion 5 aud, moreover, ordered that all Uu