OCR Output an. 38.] 535 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. fliction than a defeat, if any of those thingswhich it was not lawful to see should be seenby them; used entreaties and threatenings,and even sometimes force itself to restrainthem. He also prohibited the ravage thatwas made in the city; and many times askedSosius, whether the Romans would empty thecity both of money and men, and leave himking of a desert? and told him, that he es­teemed the dominion over the whole habitableearth, as by no means an equivalent satisfac­tion for such a murder of his citizens. Andwhen Sosius said that this plunder was justlyto be permitted the soldiers, for the siege theyhad undergone, he replied that he would giveevery one their reward out of his own money.And by this means he redeemed what re­mained of the city from destruction; and heperformed what he had promised. For hegave a noble donation to every soldier, and aproportionable present to their commanders:but a most royal present to Sosius himself:till they all went away laden with money. This *destruction befell the city of Jerusa­lem when Marcus Agrippa and Caninius Gal-lus were consuls of Rome;t on the hundredand eighty-fifth Olympiad; on the thirdmonth; on the solemnity of the fast. As if aperiodical revolution of calamities had re­turned, since that which befell the Jews underPompey. For the Jews were taken by himon the same day; and this was after twenty- seven years' time. So when Sosius had dedi­cated a crown of gold to God, he marchedaway from Jerusalem; and carried Antigonuswith him, in bonds to Antony. But Herodwas afraid lest Antigonus should be kept inprison only by Antony; and that when hewas carried to Rome by him, he might get hiscause to be heard by the senate; and mightdemonstrate, as he was himself of the royalblood, and Herod but a private man, thattherefore it belonged to his sons to haye thekingdom, on account of the family they wereof, in case he had himself offended the Ro­mans by what he had done. Out of Herod'sfear of this it was, that he, by giving Antony agreat deal of money, endeavoured to persuadehim to have Antigonus slain: which if it wereonce done, he should be free from that fear.And thus did the government of the Asmo-neans cease; a hundred and twenty-six yearsafter it was set up. This family was a splen­did and illustrious one; both on account ofthe nobility of their stock, and of the dignityof the high-priesthood; as also for the glori­ous actions their ancestors had performed forour nation. But these men lost the govern­ment by their dissensions with each other;and it then came to Herod, the son of Anti-pater; who was of a vulgar family, and of noeminent extraction; but one that was subjectto other kings. And this is what history tellsus was the end of the Asmonean family. * Note here, that Josephus fully and frequently assuresus, that there passed above three years between Herod'sfirst obtaining the kingdom at Rome, and his secondobtaining it upon the taking of Jerusalem, and death ofAntigonus. The present history of this interval twicementions the army's going into winter quarters: whichperhaps belonged to two several winters, chap. 15. Andthough Josephus says nothing how long they lay in thosequarters; yet does he give such an account of the longand studied delays of Ventidius, Silo, and Macheras, whowere to see Herod settled in his new kingdom, but seemnot to have had sufficient force for that purpose; andwere certainly all corrupted by Antigonus to make thelongest delays possible; and gives us such particular ac­counts of the many great actions of Herod's during thesame interval, as fairly imply that interval, before Herodwent to Samosata, to have been very considerable. How­ever, what is wanting in Josephus is fully supplied byMoses Chorenensis, the Armenian historian, in his historyof the same interval, II. 18, 19, 50. Where he directlyassures us, that Tigranes, when king of Armenia, and themanager of this Parthian war, reigned two years afterHerod was made king at Rome: and yet Antony did nothear of his death, in that very neighbourhood, at Samo­sata, till he was come thither to besiege it. After which Herod brought him an army; which was 340 miles' march,and through a difficult country full of enemies also: andjoined with him in the siege of Samosata, till that city wastaken. After which Herod and Sosius marched back withtheir larger armies the same number of 340 miles; andwhen, in a little time, they sat down to besiege Jerusalem,they were not able to take it but by a siege of five months.All which put together fully supplies what is wanting inJosephus; and secures the entire chronology of thesetimes, beyond contradiction. But then, if we inquire intothe true occasions of this long delay in the settlement ofHerod in his new kingdom, after he had been declaredking at Rome, we shall easily find by Josephus himself,that the Roman lieutenants, Ventidius, Silo and Mache­ras, who were to see Herod settled in the kingdom, werenot in earnest to do it. Nor was any such design shewnin earnest till after he had been with Antony himself, andassisted him in the taking of Samosata. Upon which anew general, Sosius, was sent, with a sufficient force, andfull commission to see it done effectually: and after whichit appears that the war went on in earnest continuallyagainst Antigonus, till Jerusalem and himself were takenby Sosius and Herod; and Herod was fully settled in thekingdom of Judea. t On the third year of the 185th Olympiad.