OCR Output 106 THE IDUMEANS [b. IV. with the Romans, it is in your power to watch the passagesinto the city; antf in case any thing that we have been ac­cused of is brought to light, then to come and defend yourmetropolis, and to inflict punishment on those that are foundguilty; for the enemy cannot prevent you, who are now sonear to the city. But if, after all, none of these proposalsseem acceptable and moderate, do not you wonder that thegates are shut against you, while you bear your arms aboutyou." 4. Thus spake Jesus : yet did not the multitude of theIdumeans give any attention to what he said, but were in arage, because they did not meet with a ready entrance intothe city. The generals also had indignation at the offer oflaying down their arms, and looked upon it as equal to acaptivity to throw them away at any man's injunction whom­soever. But Simon the son of Cathlas, one of their com­manders, with much ado quieted the tumult of his own men,and stood so that the high-priests might hear him, and saidas follows : — "I can no longer wonder that the patrons ofliberty arc under custody in the temple, since there are thosethat shut the gates of our common city' to their own nation,and at the same time are prepared to admit the Romans intoit; nay, perhaps, are disposed to crown the gates with gar­lands at their coming, while they speak to the Idumeans fromtheir towers, and enjoin them to throw down their arms whichthey have taken up for the preservation of its liberty: andwhile they will not intrust the guard of our metropolis totheir kindred, profess to make them judges of the differencesthat are among them ; nay, while they accuse some men ofhaving slain others without a legal trial, they do themselvescondemn a whole nation after an ignominious manner; andhave now walled up that city from their own nation, which 1 This appellation of Jerusalem given it here by Simon, the general of theIdumeans, The common city of the Idumeans, who were proselytes of justice,as well as of the original native Jews, greatly confirms that maxim of therabbins, here set down by Rclund, that Jerusahm was not assigned or appro-prialrd to the tribe of Benjamin or Judah, but every tribe had equal right to it[at their coming to worship there at the several festivals.] Sec a little be­fore, ch. iii. sect. 3.