OCR Output CHAP. M. ROMAN HISTORY. 327 the sedition, and confiscated their estates for the benefitof the public treasury. The Ardeates, by so importanta service, thought themselves sufficiently indemnified forthe unjust award of the Roman people. But the senti­ments of.the senate were more generous, they thoughtthere still remained something more to be done to effacethe remembrance of the shameful avidity which had somuch dishonoured the Roman people, The consul en­tered 'Rome in triumph; Chiilius, the general of theVolsci, being led in chains before his chariot, togetherwith the spoils of the enemy, whom he had disarmed,and obliged to pass under the yoke. The consul Quinctius, equalled by the virtues of peace,the glory his colleague had acquired in arms, which wasno easy matter. For, he applied himself in such a man­ner to preserve the peace and union of the city, and act­ed with such perfect impartiality between great andsmall, that by a just mixture of severity and mildness,his administration was thought by the senate rathersti'ict, aftd by' the people sufficiently gentle. He kept'the tribunes in awe, not by violent disputes, but by akind of ascendancy his known merit gave him over them.In five consulships, through which he had passed withthe same character for probity, or rather the consulardignity of his whole life, rendered his person more ve­nerable, if possible, thaji the office he bore; for this rea­son, not a syllable was hinted about military tribunes,during the whole course of this consulship. CHAP. XI. Reparation made the Ardeates, for the selfish award of theRoman People. T,HE consuls elected for the ensuing year, were M. Fabius Vibulanus and Posthumus ./Ebutius Cornice/i.These magistrates, when they reflected upon the gloriousadministration of the preceding year, both at home andabroad ; (for the Romans had shown such attention andalertness in relieving the Ardeates, when their affairsvverel in a most dangerous situation, that among theirneighbours, allies, and enemies, they were considered in