OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. to the first offices of the empire. Two admirable letters that passedbetween them, are stil! extant. The minister, with the consciousdignity of virtue, congratulates Gordian that he is delivered fromthe tyranny of the eunuchs *6, and still more, that he is sensible ofhis deliverance. The emperor acknowledges, with an amiable con­fusion, the errors of his past conduct; and laments, with singularpropriety, the misfortune of a monarch, from whom a venal tribe ofcourtiers perpetually labour to conceal the truth 47. The life of Misitheus had been spent in the profession of letters, The Persian w<ir. not of arms; yet such was the versatile genius of that great man, a. b. 242.that, when he was appointed Prætorian præfect, he discharged themilitary duties of his place with vigour and ability. The Persianshad invaded Mesopotamia, and threatened Antioch. By the per­suasion of his father-in-law, the young emperor quitted the luxuryof Rome, opened, for the last time recorded in history, the temple ofJanus, and marched in person into the East. On his approach witha great army, the Persians withdrew their garrisons from the citieswhich they had already taken, and retired from the Euphrates tothe Tigris. Gordian enjoyed the pleasure of announcing to thesenate the first success of his arms, which he ascribed with a becom­ing modesty and gratitude to the wisdom of his father and præfect.During the whole expedition, Misitheus watched over the safetyand discipline of the army ; whilst he prevented their dangerousmurmurs by maintaining a regular plenty in the camp, and by esta­blishing ample magazines of vinegar, bacon, straw, barley, andwheat, in all the cities of the frontier48. But the prosperity ofGordian expired with Misitheus, who died of a flux, not without . „ . ... . A. D. 243, very strong suspicions of poison. Philip, his successor in the præ- Arts of Philip. fecture, was an Arab by birth, and consequently, in the earlier partof his life, a robber by profession. His rife from so obscure a sta­tion to the first dignities of the empire, seems to prove that he wasa bold and able leader. But his boldness prompted him to aspire C c 2 to