OCR Output 140 LIVY. The shout which reached the post of Cornelius, withthe dust observed at a distance, excited a bustle andhurry in his camp. Ordering his men instantly toarms, and leading them out to the field with the utmosthaste, he charged the flank of the enemy's line, whichhad enough to do in the other dispute, at the same timeexclaiming, that ' it would be the height of infamy ifthey suffered Marcius' army to monopolise the honorof both victories, and did not assert their claim to theglory of their own war.' He bore down all beforehim, and pushed forward, through the midst of theenemy's line, to their camp, which, being left withouta guard, he took and set on fire ; and the flames of itbeing seen by the soldiers of Marcius, and likewise bythe enemy on their looking about, a general flight im­mediately took place among the Samnites. But theycould not effect an escape in any direction; in everyquarter they met death. After a slaughter of thirtythousand men, the consuls had now given the signal forretreat; and were collecting into one body their severalforces, who were employed in mutual congratulations,when some new cohorts of the enemy, which had beenlevied for a reinforcement, being seen at a distance, oc­casioned a renewal of the carnage. On these the con­querors rushed, without any order of the consuls, orsignal received, crying out that they would give theseSamnites an introduction to service, which they wouldnot like. The consuls indulged the ardor of the le­gions, well knowing that raw troops mixed with vete­rans dispirited by defeat would be incapable even ofattempting a contest. Nor were they wrong in theirjudgment: all the forces of the Samnites, old and new,fled to the nearest mountains. These the Roman armyalso ascended, so that no situation afforded safety tothe vanquished; they were beaten off, even from thesummits which they had seized. And now, they all,with one voice, supplicated for a suspension of arms.On which, being ordered to furnish corn for threemonths, pay for a year, and a tunic to each of the sol­diers, they sent deputies to the senate to sue for peace.