OCR Output Chap. Vll. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW3. 14& ' nations, although God hath judged that I am not at all worthy ' of the high-priesthood. I am satisfied with having once put ' on the sacred garments ; for I then put them OH after a more ' holy manner, than. I should now receive them again. But, if ' thou desirest that a person more worthy than myself should ' have this honourable employment, give me leave to name thec *' such a one. I have a brother that is pure from all sin " against God, and of all offences against thyself; I recommend " him to thee, as one that is fit for this dignity." So the king was pleased with these words of his, and passed by Jonathan, and, according to his brother's desire, bestowed the high-priesthood upon Matthias. Nor was it long before Marcus succeeded Pe- tronius, as president of Syria. CHAP. VII. Concerning Silas, and on what account it was that King Agrippa•was angry at him. How Agrippa began to encompass Jerusa­lem with a wall ,• and what benefits he bestowed on the inhabi­tants of Berytus. J 1. TVj OW Silas, the general of the king's horse, because he,*^ had been faithful to him under all his misfortunes, andhad never refused to be a partaker with him in any of his dan­gers, but had oftentimes undergone the most hazardous dangersfor him, was full of assurance, and thought he might expect asort of equality with the king, on account of the firmness ofthe friendship he had shewed to him. Accordingly, he wouldno where let the king sit as his superior, and took the like li­berty in speaking to him upon all occasions ; till he became trou­blesome to the king, when they were merry together, extollinghimself beyond measure, and of putting the king in mind of theseverity he had undergone, that he might, by way of ostentation,demonstrate what zeal he had shewed in his service ; and wascontinually harping upon this string, what pains he had takenfor him, and much enlarged still upon that subject. The repe­tition of this so frequently seemed to reproach the king, inso­much that he took the ungovernable liberty of talking very illat his hands. For the commemoration r.f times, when men havebeen under ignominy, is by no means agreeable to them ; and heis a very silly man, who is perpetually relating to a person whatkindness he had done him. At last, therefore, Silas had sothoroughly provoked the king's indignation, that he acted ratherout of passion than good consideration, and did not only turn Si•«las out of his place, as general of his horse, but sent him in bondsinto his own country. But the edge of his anger wore off bylength of time, and made room for more just reasonings as to his