OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 37 that were raised the nearest to the level of those un- chap.worthy favourites, were in some measure disgraced XIV'by the title of honour which they were allowed toassume. It was in vain that Constantine repeatedthe most dreadful menaces of fire and sword againstthe Borderers who should dare to desert their colours,to connive at the inroads of the Barbarians, or toparticipate in the spoil*. The mischiefs which flowfrom injudicious counsels are seldom removed by theapplication of partial severities: and though succeed­ing princes laboured to restore the strength andnumbers of the frontier garrisons, the empire, till thelast moment of its dissolution, continued to languishunder the mortal wound which had been so rashly orso weakly inflicted by the hand of Constantine. The same timid policy, of dividing whatever is Reductionunited, of reducing whatever is eminent, of dreading iegi0n8.every active power, and of expecting that the mostfeeble will prove the most obedient, seems to pervadethe institutions of several princes, and particularlythose of Constantine. The martial pride of thelegions, whose victorious camps had so often been thescene of rebellion, was nourished by the memory oftheir past exploits, and the consciousness of theiractual strength. As long as they maintained theirancient establishment of six thousand men, they sub­sisted, under the reign of Diocletian, each of themsingly, a visible and important object in the militaryhistory of the Roman empire. A few years after­wards, these gigantic bodies were shrunk to a verydiminutive size; and when seven legions, with someauxiliaries, defended the city of Amida against thePersians, the total garrison, with the inhabitants ofboth sexes, and the peasants of the deserted country, • Cod. Theod. 1. vii. tit. i. leg. 1. tit. xii. leg. 1. See Howell's Hist. of theWorld, vol. ii. p. 19. That learned historian, who is not sufficiently known,labours to justify the character and policy of Constantino. D 3