OCR Output lxx A Survey of the Histori/. it that appearance in the original plan of Inigo Jones forthe magnificent palace once designed to be erected ? Some­thing of this nature may justly be pleaded in favour of Thu-cydides, and teach us not to judge too hastily of a whole,when we cannot survey all the parts, because they neverwere finished. Moved by decorum, I would gladly justifymy author, but I by no means pretend to decide the point. Book II. The Second Book opens with the first act ofhostility. The Thebans march by night, and enter by sur­prize the city of Plataea. This city and petty State, thoughjust within Boeotia, was not comprised in the union, of whichall the other cities of Boeotia were constituents with Thebesat their head, but had ever been firmly attached, even in theworst of times, to the common liberty of Greece, and wasunder the protection of and in fast alliance with Athens.This surprize of Plataea our author describes in all its turns,till its enemies are driven out or slaughtered, and a place issecured for the Athenians. A rupture hath now been made, and the war is going tobe general. Thucydides sounds the charge in all the dis­position and spirit of Homer. He catalogues the allies onboth sides. He awakens our expectation ; and fast engagesour attention. All mankind are concerned in the impor­tant point now going to be decided. Endeavours are madeto disclose futurity. Heaven itself is interested in the dis­pute. The earth totters, and nature seems to labour withthe great event. This is his solemn and sublime manner ofsetting out. Thus he magnifies a war between two, as Ra-pin styles them, petty States ; and thus artfully he supports alittle subject by treating it in a great and noble method. Writers who have been long contemplating the vast gigan­tic size of the Roman Empire, if they cast their eyes on theState of Athens even at the present juncture, are apt to forma low idea of it. Athens, it is true, was at this time in thehighest meridian of her power. Yet, why ever to be pitchingupon the most disadvantageous and incongruous parallels ?