OCR Output 186 ROMAN EMPIRE. tion of six months the three hundred and thirty-eightbishops pronounced and subscribed a unanimous decreethat all visible symbols of Christ, except in the eucharist,were either blasphemous or heretical; that image-wor足ship was a corruption of Christianity and a renewal ofPaganism; that all such monuments of idolatry shouldbe broken or erased; and that those who should refuseto deliver the objects of their private superstition, wereguilty of disobedience to the authority of the church andof the emperor. In their loud and loyal acclamations,they celebrated the merits of their temporal redeemer;and to his zeal and justice they intrusted the executionof their spiritual censures. At Constantinople, as in theformer councils, the will of the prince was the rule ofepiscopal faith; but, on this occasion, I am inclined tosuspect, that a large majority of the prelates sacrificedtheir secret conscience to the temptations of hope andThei, fear. In the long night of superstition, thecreed. Christians had wandered far away from thesimplicity of the gospel: nor was it easy for them todiscern the clue, and tread back the mazes, of thelabyrinth. The worship of images was inseparablyblended, at least to a pious fancy, with the cross, theVirgin, the saints, and their relics: the holy groundwas involved in a cloud of miracles and visions; andthe nerves of the mind, curiosity and scepticism, werebenumbed by the habits of obedience and belief. Con-stantine himself is accused of indulging a royal licenceto doubt, to deny, or deride, the mysteries of the Catho足lics," but they were deeply inscribed in the public andprivate creed of his bishops; and the boldest Icono足clast might assault with a secret horror, the monumentsof popular devotion, which were consecrated to the ho足nour of his celestial patrons. In the reformation of the a He is accused of proscribing the title of saint; styling the Virgin, mother ofCkritt; comparing her after her delivery to an empty purse; of Arianism, Nesto-rianism, &c. lu his defence, Spanheim (c. 4. p. 207.) is somewhat embarrassedbetween the interest of a Protestant and the duty of an orthodox divine.