OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 175 about Brescia from the Celtic Carnians in Friuli. TheEuganei and Veneti had long been peaceful subjects of theRomans; whereas the peoples of the Alps proper were notonly still free, but made regular forays down from theirmountains into the plain between the Alps and the Po,where they were not content with levying contributions,but conducted themselves with fearful cruelty in the placeswhich they captured, not unfrequently slaughtering thewhole male population down to the infant in the cradle—thepractical answer, it may be presumed, to the Roman razziasin the Alpine valleys. How dangerous these Raetian inroadswere, appears from the fact that one of them about 660 de­stroyed the considerable township of Comum. 94,If these Celtic and non-Celtic tribes having their settle- illyrianments upon and beyond the Alpine chain were already peoples,variously intermingled, there was, as may easily be con­ceived, a still more comprehensive intermixture of peoplesin the countries on the Lower Danube, where there wereno high mountain ranges, as in the more western regions,to serve as natural walls of partition. The original Illyrianpopulation, of which the modern Albanians seem to be thelast pure survivors, was throughout, at least in the inte­rior, largely mixed with Celtic elements, and the Celticarmour and Celtic method of warfare were probably every­where introduced in that quarter. Next to the Tauriscicame the Japydes, who had their settlements on the Julian Japydes.Alps in the modern Croatia as far down as Fiume andZeng,—a tribe originally perhaps Illyrian, but largelymixed with Celts. Bordering with these along the coastwere the already-mentioned Dalmatians, into whose ruggedmountains the Celts do not seem to have penetrated;whereas in the interior the Celtic Scordisci, to whom the Scordisci.tribe of the Triballi which was formerly especially powerfulthere had succumbed, and who had played a principal partin the Celtic expeditions to Delphi, were about this timethe leading nation along the Lower Save as far as theMorava in the modern Bosnia and Servia. They roamedfar and wide towards Moesia, Thrace, and Macedonia, andfearful tales were told of their savage valour and cruel cus­toms. Their chief stronghold was the strong Segestica orSiscia at the point where the Kulpa falls into the Save. Thepeoples of the modern Hungary, Wallachia, and Bulgariastill remained for the present beyond the horizon of the