OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. Photius11 was exposed to her secret persecutions in thecamp beyond the Tigris. Enraged by his own wrongs,and by the dishonour of his blood, he cast away in histurn the sentiments of nature, and revealed to Belisariusthe turpitude of a woman who had violated all the dutiesof a mother and a wife. From the surprise and indig­nation of the Roman general, his former credulity ap­pears to have been sincere: he embraced the knees ofthe son of Antonina, adjured him to remember his ob­ligations rather than his birth, and confirmed at thealtar their holy vows of revenge and mutual defence.The dominion of Antonina was impaired by absence;and when she met her husband, on his return from thePersian confines, Belisarius, in his first and transientemotions, confined her person, and threatened her life.Photius was more resolved to punish, and less prompt topardon: he flew to Ephesus; extorted from a trustyeunuch of his mother the full confession of her guilt;arrested Theodosius and his treasures in the church ofSt. John the apostle, and concealed his captives, whoseexecution was only delayed, in a secure and sequesteredfortress of Cilicia. Such a daring outrage against publicjustice could not pass with impunity; and the cause ofAntonina was espoused by the empress, whose favourshe had deserved by the recent services of the disgraceof a prefect, and the exile and murder of a pope. At theend of the campaign, Belisarius was recalled; he com­plied, as usual, with the imperial mandate. His mindwas not prepared for rebellion; his obedience, howeveradverse to the dictates of honour, was consonant to thewishes of his heart; and when he embraced his wife, atthe command, and perhaps in the presence, of the em­press, the tender husband was disposed to forgive or tobe forgiven. The bounty of Theodora reserved for hercompanion a more precious favour. "I have found,(she said) my dearest patrician, a pearl of inestimable a Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 204.) styles him Photinus, the son-in-law of Be-lisaf us; and lie is copied by the Hisloria Minella and Anaslasius.