OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 279 the spirit of the parties will he—yours, that of con­querors ; theirs, that of men conquered. Nor is itconfidence, but necessity, which now prompts them tofight: unless you suppose that those who avoided fight­ing, when their force was intire, have acquired greaterconfidence after the loss of two-thirds of their infantryand cavalry in the passage over the Alps ; after greaternumbers have perished than survive. But it may besaid, they are few indeed, but vigorous in mind andbody, having a power and strength no force can with­stand. On the contrary, they are but the resemblance,mere shadows of men, rendered lifeless by hunger,cold, filth, and nastiness; battered and disabled amongthe rocks and precipices. Add to this, their joints be­numbed, their sinews stiffened, their limbs shrivelledby the frost, their armor shattered and broken, theirhorses lamed and enfeebled. Such is the infantry,such the cavalry, with whom you are to fight. Youwill have to deal, not with enemies, but the remains ofenemies. And nothing do I fear more than lest, beforeyou come to a battle, the Alps may appear to haveconquered Hannibal. But perhaps it was right that itshould be so; that, against a nation and commanderguilty of a breach of treaties, the gods themselvesshould commence the war, and break the force of theenemy; and that we who, next to' the gods, were theparty injured, should then take it up, and carry it onto a conclusion. 41. ' In what I say on this head I am not afraid ofbeing suspected of ostentatious boasting, for the pur­pose of encouraging you, while my real sentiments aredifferent. I might have proceeded with my army intoSpain, my own province, to which I had gone part ofthe way; where I should have had my brother to assistme in council, and to share the danger; and, insteadof Hannibal, I should have had Hasdrubal to contendwith; and, certainly, a less difficult war to manage.Nevertheless, as I sailed along the coast of Gaul, hav­ing heard of the approach of this enemy, I landed,