OCR Output 36 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. by length of time, or by the carelessness of the kings, his prede­cessors, as well as all that part which had been thrown down bythe king of Israel, when he took his father Amaziah prisoner,and entered with him into the city. Moreover, he built a greatmany towers, of one hundred and fifty cubits high, and builtwalled towns in desert places, and put garrisons into them, anddug many channels for conveyance of water. He had also manybeasts for labour, and an immense number of cattle; for hiscountry was fit for pasturage. He was also given to husbandry,and took care to cultivate the ground, and planted it with allsorts of plants, and sowed it with all sorts of seeds. He had alsoabout him an army composed of chosen men, in number threehundred and seventy thousand, who were governed by generalofficers and captains of thousands, who were men of valour, andof unconquerable strength, in number two thousand. He alsodivided his whole army into bands, and armed them, givingevery one a sword, with brazen bucklers and breast-plates, withbows and slings; and besides these, he made for them many en­gines of war, for besieging of cities, such as cast stones and darts,with grapplers, and other instruments of that sort. 4. While Uzziah was in this state, and making preparation[for futurity], he was corrupted in his mind by pride, and be­came insolent, and this on account of that abundance which hehad of things that will soon perish, and despised that powerwhich is of eternal duration (which consisted in piety towardsGod, and in the observation of his laws), so he fell by occasionof the good success of his affairs, and was carried headlong intothose sins of his fathers which the splendour of that prosperityhe enjoyed, and the glorious actions he had done, led him into,while he was not able to govern himself well about them. Ac­cordingly, when a remarkable day was come, and a general festi­val was to be celebrated, he put on the holy garment, and wentinto the temple to offer incense to God upon the golden altar,which he was prohibited to do by Azariah the high priest, whohad fourscore priests with him, and who told him that it wasnot lawful for him to offer sacrifice, and that " none besides the"posterity of Aaron were permitted so to do." And when they |cried out, that he must go out of the temple, and not transgress -against God, he was wroth at them, and threatened to kill them,'unless they would hold their peace. In the mean time a great* earthquake shook the ground, and a rent was made in the tem- * This account of an earthquake at Jerusalem at the very same time whenUzziab usurped the priest's office, and went into the sanctuary to burn incense,and of ihc consequences of that earthquake, is entirely wanting in our othercopies, though it be exceeding like to a prophecy of Jeremiah's now in Zech.xiv. 5. in which prophecy, mention is made of " fleeing from that earthquake,