OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 815 vered! Anathema to the Nestorians! Let them depart from the synodf Let themrepair to RomeThe legates threatened; the emperor was absolute, and acommittee of eighteen bishops prepared a new decree, which was imposed on thereluctant assembly. In the name of the fourth general council, the Christ in oneperson, but in two natures, was announced to the catholic world; an invisible linewas drawn between the heresy of Apollinaris and the faith of St. Cyril; and theroad to paradise, a bridge as sharp as a razor, was suspended over the abyss bythe master-hand of the theological artist. During ten centuries of blindness andservitude, Europe received her religious opinions from the oracle of the Vatican;and the same doctrine, already varnished with the rust of antiquity, was admittedwithout dispute into the creed of the reformers, who disclaimed the supremacy ofthe Roman pontiff. The synod of Chalcedon still triumphs in the protestantchurches; but the ferment of controversy has subsided, and the most pious Chris­tians of the present day are ignorant or careless of their own belief concerning themystery of the incarnation. Far different was the temper of the Greeks and Egyptians under the orthodoxreigns of Leo and Marcian. Those pious emperors enforced with arms and edictsthe symbol of their faith ;(2) and it was declared by the conscience or honour offive hundred bishops, that the decrees of the synod of Chalcedon might be law­fully supported, even with blood. The catholics observed with satisfaction, thatthe same synod was odious both to the Nestorians and the Monophysites;(3) butthe Nestorians were less angry, or less powerful, and the east was distracted bythe obstinate and sanguinary zeal of the Monophysites. Jerusalem was occupiedby an army of monks; in the name of the one incarnate nature, they pillaged,they burnt, they murdered; the sepulchre of Christ was defiled with blood; andthe gates of the city were guarded in tumultuous rebellion against the troops ofthe emperor. After the disgrace and exile of Dioscorus, the Egyptians still re­gretted their spiritual father; and detested the usurpation of his successor,who was introduced by the fathers of Chalcedon. The throne of Proterius wassupported by a guard of two thousand soldiers; he waged a five years' war againstthe people of Alexandria; and on the first intelligence of the death of Marcian,he became the victim of their zeal. On the third day before the festival of Easter,the patriarch was besieged in the cathedral, and murdered in the baptistery.The remains of his mangled corpse were delivered to the flames, and his ashesto the wind: and the deed was inspired by the vision of a pretended angel: anambitious monk, who, under the name of Timothy the Cat,(4) succeeded to theplace and opinions of Dioscorus. This deadly superstition was inflamed, on eitherside, by the principle and the practice of retaliation: in the pursuit of a meta­physical quarrel, many thousands(5) were slain, and the Christians of every de­gree were deprived of the substantial enjoyments of social life, and of the invi­sible gifts of baptism and the holy communion. Perhaps an extravagant fableof the times may conceal an allegorical picture of these fanatics, who torturedeach other, and themselves. " Under the consulship of Venantius and Celer,"says a grave bishop, '* the people of Alexandria, and all Egypt were seized with astrange and diabolical frenzy: great and small, slaves and freemen, monks andclergy, the natives of the land, who opposed the synod of Chalcedon, lost theirspeech and reason, barked like dogs, and tore with their own teeth, the flesh fromtheir hands and arms. "(6) (1; Edoita-Nv * a xpgrurw ?, Krtpzfiftt$x .... 01 ttvrri.tyWTi; Qwpu >-£vajvr*i, 01 ai/TiXiycuT,; thrruunftlmrif, 01 BmAiyom,- eis Von*v »wbxSow<v. (Coocil. torn. iv. p. 1441.) Evagrius and Liberatus present only theplacid faee of the synod, and discreetly slide orer these embers supposiios cinere dotoso.. (2) See in the Appendix to the Acts of Chalcedon, the confirmation of the synod by Marcian (Concil. torn,sv.p. 1781. 1783.,) his letters to the monks of Alexandria (p. 1791.,) of Mount Sinai (p. 1793.,) of Jerusalemand Palestine (p. 1798.,) his laws against the Entychians (p. 1809. 1811. 1831.,) the correspondence of Leo withthe provincial synods on the revolution of Alexandria fp. 1835. 1930.) (3) Photius (or rather the Eulogius of Alexandria) confesses, in a fine passage, the specious colour of thisdouble charge against Pope Leo and his synod of Chalcedon. fBibliot. Cod. 225. p. 768.) He waged a doublewar against the enemies of the church, and wounded either foe with the darts of his adversary—xhtxkkkKoi;BtKttri roue aurtTntKn; rrarparxj. Against Nestorius he seemed to introduce the mxwi: of the Monophy­sites: against Eutyches he appeared to countenance the asmsrim Slatpopa of the Nestorians. The apologistclaims a charitable interpretation for the saints; if the same had been extended to the heretics, the sound ofthe controversy would have been lost in the air. (4) AMsvasc, from bis nocturnal expeditions. In darkness and disguise he crept round the cells of the monas­tery, and whispered the revelation to his slumbering brethren (Theodor. Lector, lib. i.) (5) S>9voy; ti TOAjWjSswi /aupiov; suparw :rA.S)flii fti\vv$>lvxi ft* poiicr tkv y*i xKKx loci stvrav TOV *.<;)*. Such is the hy­perbolic language of the Henotocon. torn'S p* 32F Cnronicle of victor Tunnensis, in the Lectiones Antitrua? of Canulus, republished by Basnet,