OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 115 endless peace. The safety of the east enabled the em­peror to employ his forces against the Vandals; andthe internal state of Africa afforded an honourablemotive, and promised a powerful support, to the Romanarms." According to the testament of the founder, the Afri- state onh«can kingdom had lineally descended to Hilderic, the Hilderic'.eldest of the Vandal princes. A mild disposition in- ^^0biSclined the son of a tyrant, the grandson of a conqueror,to prefer the counsels of clemency and peace; and hisaccession was marked by the salutary edict, which re­stored two hundred bishops to their churches, and al­lowed free profession of the Athanasian creed .b Butthe Catholics accepted, with cold and transient gratitude,a favour so inadequate to their pretensions, and the vir­tues of Hilderic offended the prejudices of his country­men. The Arian clergy presumed to insinuate that hehad renounced the faith, and the soldiers more loudlycomplained that he had degenerated from the courageof his ancestors. His ambassadors were suspected of asecret and disgraceful negotiation in the Byzantinecourt: and his general, the Achilles/ as he was named,of the Vandals, lost a battle against the naked and dis­orderly Moors. The public discontent was exasperated Geliaer.by Gelimer, whose age, descent, and military fame, gave Mhim an apparent title to the succession: he assumed,with the consent of the nation, the reins of govern- * The complete series of the Vandal war is related by Procopios in regular andelegant narrative ; (lib. 1. c. 9—25. lib. J. o. 1—13.) and happy would be my lot,could I always tread in the footsteps of such a guide. From the entire and diligentperusal of the Greek text, 1 have a right to pronounce, that the Latin and French ver­sions of Grotius and Cousin may not be implicitly trusted: yet the president Cousinhas been often praised, and Hugo Grotius was the first scholar of a learned age. • See Ruinart, Hist. Persecut. Vandal, c. 12. p. 589. His best evidence is drawnfrom the Life of St. Fulgentius, composed by one of his disciples, transcribed in agreat measure in the annals of Baronius, and printed in several great collections. Ca­talog. Bibliot. Bunavisrnae, tom. 1. vol.2, p. 1258.) c For what quality of the mind or body? For speed, or beauty, or valour?—Inwhat language did the Vandals read Homer?—Did be speak German?—The Latinshad four versions: (Fabric. tom. 1. lib. 2. c. 3. p. 297.) yet in spite of the praises ofSeneca, (Consol. c. 26.) they appear to have been more successful in imitating, thanin translating, the Greek poets. But the name of Achilles might be famous and pO-'pular, even among the il I iterate harharian;.