OCR Output PALMYKA. 639 PAMPHIA. bp granted a pardon, with permission tosad inhabit their ruined city, and especiallywed much solicitude for the restoration of the7-xrkof the Sun. But the effects of the blowwmn fan heavy to be retrieved. From this periodkit 273) Palmyra gradually dwindled into annacBcticaat town, and at length became only a>4w of refuge for a few families of wanderingIt •ermi indeed for some years as a Roman—■. att ttatioo; and Diocletian partially restoredw Wits buildings, as appears from an inscriptionr—nsrf by Wood. About the year 400 the firstu* --aii legiua was quartered there (Xot. Imp.); andtells us that it was fortified by Justinian** I - L a. 2). But this is the last that we hear ofaizjyra under the Romans; and the sinking for-wm «** their empire probably soon led them to ". * remains of the buildings of Palmyra arenrfr of the Corinthian order, which was ther=-+ni* style of architecture during the two orw* centuries which preceded Diocletian; whencei aiy infer that the splendour which it once ex-hhri wtt ctivtAf owing to Odenathus and Zenobia.r iiut centuries even the site of Palmyra re-unknown except to the roving Arabswhose magnificent accounts of its ruinsv"J» exerted the cariosity of the English mer­as* scuied Mt Ahrppo. Under the auspices of the■ail Coopmny. ao expedition started in 1678 for> yirp—t of exploring them; but the persons who■paved it vera robbed and ill-treated by theska. sad compelled to return without having ac-RutLcd their object. In 1691 the expeditionwith better success, and an account ofthen made was published in theof the Royal Suciety. (Sellers, Antiqui-1*. '•:".) Subsequently Palmyra was1751 by Woud and Dawkius, who pub-reaulu of their jouniey in a large folio«uh magnificent engravings. The account(vol. iL) ss chiefly taken from this work,the more recent descriptions may be men-■J that of lrby and Mangles (Travels, ch. v.),Palmyra in 1816. According to thesethe plates of Wood and Dawkins havethan justice to the subject; and althoughptrw of Use rains from a distance, with their|af 4xuiine; white columns extending betweenpt nr» miles, and relieved by the contrast ofsand of the desert, is very striking, yet,detail, they excite but little^& Taken separately, not a single column orber is worthy of admiration. None40 feet in height and 4 feet inlad in the boa*ted avenue they arc little3U sWt high. The remains of the Tem-|fist deal Cunn the most magnificent object, andnic order, relieve the monotony of theatyle. These columns, whichm. aagfc and 4 fret in diameter, are fluted,u Jt ur*ly three or four pieces of stone; and• Lusossa were surmounted by brazen IonicTa* ftVr—^ of the portico consists of 12.jt. timt at the temple of Baalbcc, besides„ ajT other point* of resemblance. OnUfWever. the ruins are far inferior toSUaihec. At the time of Messrs. Irby andthe peristyle court of the Temple ofla *s» acrvpaed by the Arabian Tillage ofIftr oat with ,ittm exception, and the Turkish burial ground, the space was unencumbered, andthere was nothing to obstruct the researches of theantiquary. In some places the linca of the streetsand the foundations of the houses were distinctlyvisible. The sculptures are uniformly coarse andbad; the stone is of a perishable description, andscarcely deserves the name of marble. The sepul­chres outside the walls formed perhaps the mostinteresting part of the remains. These consist ofsquare towers, from three to five stories high, funn­ing sepulchral chambers, with recesses for the recep­tion of the bodies. In these tombs mummies andmummy cloths are found, prepared very much afterthe Egyptian manner; but ihere are no paintings,and on the whole they are far from being so in­teresting as the Egyptian sepulchres. There was asculptured tablet in bas-relief, with seven or eiphtfigures standing and clothed in long robes, supposedto represent priests. Several Greek and PaJmyrenainscriptions, and two or three in Latin and Hebrew,have been discovered at Palmyra. They will befound in Wood's Ruins of Palmyra, and the fol­lowing works may also be consulted: Bernardand Smith, Inscriptiones Graecae Palmyrenontm,Utrecht, 1698; Giorgi, De Inscriptionibus Palmjfrents quae in Musaeo Capitolino adsetranturinterpretaitdis Epistola, Rome, 1782; Barthe'leiny,fn Mem de I Academic des Inter, torn. xxiv.; andSwinton, in the Philosophical Transactions, roLxlviii. With regard to the general history and antiquitiesof Palmyra, besides the works already cited in thisarticle, the following may be consulted: Seller,Antiquities of Palmyra, London, 1696; Huntingtonin the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xix. Koi.217, 218; a Dissertation by Dr. Halley in the samework; Gibbon's Decline and Fall. ch. si.; St. Mart.Hist, de Palmyre, Paris, 1823; Addison's Damascusand Palmyra; Richter, Wallfahrt; Cassas, VoyagePittoresque de la Syrie; Laborde, Voyage en Ori- nt;&c [T.H.D.] PALMYRE'NE (UaXtivpnvli, PtoL v. 15. § 24),a district of Syria, so named after the city of Pal­myra, and which extended S. from Chalybonitis intothe desert. (Cf. Pun. v. 24. a. 21.) [T.H.D.]PALORUM PORTUS. [Maixus and Ma- GAKSA.] PALTTJS (ndAToj: Eth. naArn^s), a town ofSyria upon the coast, subject to the island of Aradut,which was at no great distance from it. Accordingto some accounts Memnon was buried in the neigh-bourhood of Paltus. Pococke places it at Soldo;Shaw at the ruins at the mouth of the Melltck, 6miles from Jebilee, the ancient Gabala. (Strab. xv.pp. 728, 735; Ptol. v. 15. § 3; Cic. ad Fata. xii.13; Plin. v. 20. s. 18; Mela, i. 12: Steph. 11 r.;Pococke, vol. i. p. 199; Shaw, p. 324, Oxf. 1738.)PAMBO'TIS LACUS. [Dodona, p. 784.]PAMISL'S (naM«roi). 1. The chief river ofMessenia. [Sec Vol. IL pp. 341, 342.J 2. A river in Laconia, forming the ancient boun­dary between Messenia and Laconia. (Strab- wit.p. 361.) Strabo speaks of this river as near Leuc-tram, but it flows into the sea at Pephnus, about 3miles S. of Lemtrum. [Pephnus.] 3. A tributary of the Peneius in The&saly, pro­bably the modern Bliuri or Pitiuri. (Herod, vii.129; Plin. iv. 8. s. 15; Leake, Northern Greece,vol. iv. pp. 512, 514.) PA'MPHIA (Ilfui^ta), a village of Aetolia, onthe road from Metnpa to Thermum, and distant 30