OCR Output 208 TITUS RESUMES [B. V. there that does not know how Egypt was overrun with allsorts of wild beasts, and consumed by all sorts of distempers ?how their land did not bring forth its fruit ? how the Nilofailed of water ? how the ten plagues of Egypt followed uponone another ? and how by those means our fathers were sentaway under a guard, without any bloodshed, and withoutrunning any dangers, because God conducted them as hispeculiar servants 1 Moreover, did not Palestine groan underthe ravages the Assyrians1 made, when they carried awayour sacred ark ? as did their idol Dagon, and as also did thatentire nation of those that carried it away; how they weresmitten with a loathsome distemper in the secret parts oftheir bodies, when their very bowels came down togetherwith what they had eaten, till those hands that stole it awaywere obliged to bring it back again, and that with the soundof cymbals and timbrels, and other oblations, in order toappease the anger of God for their violation of his holy ark.It was God who then became our general, and accomplishedthese great things for our fathers, and this because they didnot meddle with war and fighting, but committed it to himto judge about their affairs. When Sennacherib, king ofAssyria, brought along with him all Asia, and encompassedthis city round with his army, did ho fall by the hands ofmen ? were not those hands lifted up to God in prayers, with­out meddling with their arms, when an angel of God destroyedthat prodigious army in one night? when the Assyrian king,as he arose the next day, found a hundred fourscore and fivothousand dead bodies, and when he, with the remainder ofhis army fled away from the Hebrews, though they were un­armed, and did not pursue them. You are also acquainted 1 Note here, that Josephus, in this his same admirable speech, calls theSyrians, nay, even the Philistines on the most south part of Syria, Assyrians;which Keland observes as what was common among the ancient writers.Note also, that Josephus might well put the Jews in mind, as he does heremore than once, of their wonderful and truly miraculous deliverance fromSennacherib, king of Assyria, while the Roman army, and himself withthem, were now encamped upon and beyond that very spot of ground wherethe Assyrian army lay 780 years before, and which retained the very nameof the C'imp of the Assyrians to that very day. See chap. vii. sect. 3, andchnp. xii. si-ct. 2.