OCR Output 382 MYCENAE. MYCENAE. cuit, with the exception (if a small open space abovethe precipitous cliil'ou the .southern side, which per­haps was never defended by a wall. The walls aremore perfect than those of any other fortress inGreece; in .some places they are 15 or 20 feet high.They are bnilt of the dark-coloured limestone of thesurrounding mountains. Some parts of the wallsare built, like those of Tiryns, of huge blocks ofstone of irregular shape, no attempt being made totit them into one another, and the gaps being filledup with smaller stones. But the greater part of thewalls consists of polygonal stones, skilfully hewn andlilted to ono another, and their faces cut so as togive t he masonry a smooth appearance. The nails alsopresent, in a few parts, a third species of masonry,in which the stones are constructed of blocks ofnearly quadrangular shape; this is the case in theapproach to the Gate of Lions. This difference inthe masonry of the walls has been held to provethat they were constructed at different ages; butmore recent investigations amidst the ruins of Greeceand Italy has shown that this difference in the styleof masonry cannot be regarded as a decisive test ofthe comparative antiquity of walls; and Col .Murehas justly remarked that, as there can l>e no reason­able doubt that the approach to the Gate of Lions isof the same remote autirjuity as ttie remainder of thefabric,it would appear to have been the custom withthese primitive builders to pay a little more atten­tion to symmetry and regularity in the more orna­mental portions of their work. The chief gate of the Acropolis is at the NW.angle of the wall. It stands at right angles to theadjoining wall of the fortress, and is approached by apassage 50 feet long and 30 wide, formed by thatwall and by another wall exterior to it. The openingof the gateway widens from the top downwards; but at least two-thirds of its height are nowbuneAmruins. The width at the top of the door is 9J feecThis door was formed of two massive npnebti,covered with a third bl<>ek, 15 feet long, 4 feet wide,and G feet 7 inches high in the middle, tint £•minishing at the two ends. Above this bkek is atriangular gap in the masonry of the wall, funned kyan oblique approximation of the side courses of Moot,continued from each extremity of the lintel to siapex above its centre. The vacant space is occupiedby a block of stone, 10 feet high, 12 broad, an) )thick, upon the face of which are sculptural twslions in low relief, standing on their biiid-legv nasieither side of a covered pillar, upon which they rsfttheir fore-feet. The column becomes broad* to*wards the top, and is surmounted with a capital,formed of a row of four circles, enclosed between inparallel fillets. The heads of the animals are sssfltogether with the apex of the cone that mrmoMtsithe column. The block of stone, from which 1stlions are sculptured, is said by Leake ao4 otheraccurate observers to be a kind of gTeert basalt; fastthis appears to be a mistake. We learn from Mais{Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 324) that the block fcof the same /utlombiuo, or dove-coloured hmestaM,*!whirli the native rock mainly consists, and that Ierroneous impression has been derived from tsicolour of the poshed surface, which has recernifrom time and the weather a blueiah grets bssThe column between the lions is the enstnwsjsymbol of Apollo Agyieus, the protector of doors ssjgates. (Mfiller, Dor. ii. 6. § 5.) This is alsopsnlby the invocation of Apollo in the Agameuisdl SAeschylus (1078, 1083, 1271), and the Ekctra ISophocles (1374), in both of which txagedia ftscene is laid in front of this gate. GATi: OF THK UONS AT MYCENAE. It has been well observed that this pair of lionsStands to the art of Greece somewhat in the samerelation as the Iliad and the Odyssey to her litera­ture; the one, the only extant specimens of theplastic skill of her mythical era. the other, the onlygenuine memorials of its chivalry and its song. Thebest observers remark that the animals are in a styleof art peculiar to themselves, and that they have littleor nothing of that dry linear stiflnoss which charac­terises the earlier stages of the art of sculpture inalmost every country, and present consequently as little resemblance to the Archaic style of the Llenio works of a later period as to those of Egitself. "The special peculiarities of their essition are a certain solidity and rotundity amosjafto clumsiness in the limbs, as compared with ]bodies. The hind-legs, indeed, an- more Uki 4of elephants than lions; the thighs, espeuafly,)of immense bulk and thickness. This unifcflable feature, however, is compensated by ssjnatural ease and dignity of attitude. The tuniof the body and shoulders is admirable,