OCR Output 6 F R O M E, r9i- fighting, and, inftcad of making head on ^11 fides, B O O'K bent their whole force towards one point; where, v_-yl , forming in the fiiape of a wedge, and exerting every Y.R. 17.'..effort of their bodies and arms, they at length forced B. Ct *7".a paflage. Their courfe led to a hill of moderateacclivity; there, firft, they halted ; and then the ad­vantage of the ground affording them a little time tobreathe, and to recover from the confirmation intowhich they had been thrown, they afterwards evenrepulfed an attack of the enemy; and this little band'would, with the aid of the ground, have come offvictorious, had not a body of Veientians, lent roundfhe ridge of the hill, made their way to the fummit:by this means the enemy became again fuperior;the Fabii were all cut off, to a man, and their forttaken. It is agreed on all hands, that the three hun­dred and fix perifhed; and that only one fingleperfon, then quite a youth, was left, as a ftock forthe propagation of the Fabian race; and who was,afterwards, on many emergencies, both in peace and.war, to prove the firmeft fupport of the ftatt. LI. AT the time when this difafter happened, v. R.I??.Caius Horatius and Titus Menenius were in the con- •"•c. +7:,.iblfhip. Menenius was immediately lent againft dieEtrurians, elated with their victory. He alfo wasworfted in battle, and the enemy took poffefiion ofthe Janiculum. Nor would the city, which befidesthe war, was diftrefied alfo by fcarcity, have efcupeda fiege, the Etrurians having parted the Tiber, hadnot the conful Horatius been recalled from the coun­try of the Volfcians. And fo near did the enemyapproach to the walls, that the firft engagement wasat the temple of Hope, in which no advantage wasgained on either fide; and the fecond, at the Collinegate, in which the Romans obtained fome fmall ad­vantage i and this, though far from decifive, yet byreftoring to the foldiers their former courage, qua­lified them the better to contend with the enemy ino 2 future.