OCR Output MESSANA. 337 MESSANA. calls it a very great and very rich city (" civitasmaxima et locupletissima," Verr. v. 17), and extolsthe advantages of its situation, its port, and itsbuildings. (/»• iv. 2.) Like all other allied cities,it had its own senate and magistrates, and waslegally subject to no other contributions than thefurnishing ships and naval supplies in case of vrar,and the contributing a certain proportion of the comfamished by Sicily to Rome at a given rate of re­muneration. (/J. v. 17—22.) Nor does Messanaappear to have suffered severely from any of the warsthat caused such ravages in Sicily, though it nar-iwriy escaped being taken and plundered by Atheniondaring the Servile War, B.C. 101. (Dion Cass.lr. Val. p. 534.) In the Civil War, B. c. 48, itwas the station of a part of the fleet of Caesar, whichwas attacked there by that of Pompey under Cassius,aad the whole of the ships, thirty-five in number,Inrnt; but the city itself was protected by the^raence of a Roman legion. (Caes. B. C. iii. 101.)At a somewhat later period it was the head-quartersand chief stronghold of Sextus Pompeius during hiswar with Octavian, B. c. 36; and its capacious har­bour became the station of the fleet with which hecroimanded the coasts of Sicily, as far as Tau-rsmenium on the one side and Tvndaris on theother. It was from thence also that Pompeius,after the total defeat of his fleet by Agrippa, madeIns escape with a squadron of only seventeen ships.(Appian, B. C. v. 97, 103, 109, 122; Dion Cass.ilix. 1—12; Strab. vi. p. 268.) It w»» in all probability in consequence of thiswjr that Messana lost the privileged condition it had§o long enjoyed; but its inhabitants received in ex­change the Roman franchise, and it was placed inthe ordinary position of a Roman municipium. It«J1 continued to be a flourishing place. Strabo■peaks of it as one of the few cities in Sicily thatwere in his day well peopled ; and though no sub­sequent mention of it is found in history under theRoman Empire, it reappears during the Gothic wars»s one of the chief cities and most important for­tieses in the island, — a rank it had undoubtedlyheld throughout the intervening period. (Strab. vi.p. 268; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 9; Mel. ii.". § 16: Procop. B. G. i. 8, iii. 39.) The wine oftfce neighbourhood of Messana, known as VinumMamertinum, enjoyed a great reputation in the daysof Pliny; it was first brought into vogue by thedictator Caesar. (Plin. xiv. 6. s. 8.) Throughout the vicissitudes of the middle agesVctma continued to be one of the most importantcities of Sicily; and still ranks as the second city inthe iiland. It baa, however, but few remains of■ :: |oity. The only vestiges arc some baths andteaaebued pavements, and a small old church, sup-f«d to have formed part of a Roman basilica.(Sonth'i Sicily, p. 118.) Another church, calledS Cionmni dt' Fiorentini is believed, but whollywithout authority, to occupy the site of the Sa-'Mrium or family chapel of Ileitis, from whichVtrra purloined a bronze statue of Hercules, atta­inted to Myron, and one of Cupid, which was be-l*v»d to be the work of Praxiteles. (Cic. Verr. iv.!,3.) Tb* celebrated port of Messana, to which the city"wl it* chief importance in ancient as well as■■don times, is formed by a projecting spit orfc*TM *i sand, which carves round in the form of act***M or sickle (whence the name of Zancle waswpprweri t0 ^ QeriTed^ and constitutes a natuml mole, rendering the harbour within perfectly secure.This singular bulwark is called by Diodorus iheActe ('A*T7]), and its construction was attributedby fable to the giant Orion (Dial. iv. 85), thoughthere can be no doubt of its being of perfectlynatural formation. The harbour within is said byDiodorus to be capable of containing a fleet of 600ships (xiv. 56), and has abundant depth of water,even for the largest ships of modern days. Thecelebrated whirlpool of the Charybdis is situatedjust outside the Acte, nearly opposite the modernlighthouse, but out of the track of vessels enteringthe harbour of Messina. (Smyth's Sicily, p. 123.) Though the city itself is built close to the harbouron level ground, immediately at the back of it risesteep hills, forming the underfalls of a range ofmountains which extends from the neighbourhoodof Cape Pelorus to that of Tauromenium. Thisridge, or at least the part of it next to Cape Pelorus,was known in ancient times as the Mons Neitu-nius; but a part of the same range forming one ofthe underfalls near Messana is called, both by Dio­dorus and Polybius, the Chalcidic mount (to XoXki-SiKbv Oftos, Pol. i. 11; 6 \6<pos 6 KaXovfttvos Xa\-kiSikos, Diod. xxiii. 1), and was the position oc­cupied by Hieron of Syracuse when he laid siege toMessana, u. c. 264. But neither this, nor the posi­tion taken up by the Carthaginians at the sametime at a place called Sunes or Kunes (XfrtifjPol.; Eitvus, Diod.), can be identified with anydegree of certainty. The coins of Messana are numerous and interest­ing, as illustrating the historical vicissitudes of thecity. There exist:—1.Coins of Zancle, before the timeof Anaxilas, with the name written in old charactersAANKAE, a dialectic form of the name. 2. Coinsof Messana, with the Ionic legend ME22ENION,and types taken from the coins of Samos. Thesemust be referred to the period of Anaxilas imme­diately after his conquest of the city, while theSamian colonists still inhabited it. 3. Coins ofMessana, with the type of a hare, which seems tohave been adopted as the ordinary symbol of thecity, because that animal is said to have been firstintroduced into Sicily by Anaxilas. (Pollux, Onorn. v.75.) These coins, which are numerous, and rangeover a considerable period of time, show the gradualpreponderance of the Doric element in the city ; theruder and earlier ones having the legend in the Ionicform ME22ENION, the latter ones in the Doric COINS OF MESSANA.