OCR Output LATIUM. 143 LA'l'MICUS SINUS. parent]/ at the foot of the Mons Lepinus, or nottlicrnextremity of the Volscian mountains. [Ecetra.] Besides these cities, which in the early ages ofL*tium formed members of the Latin League, or areotherwise conspicuous in Roman history, we find men­tion in Pliny of some smaller towns still existing inhis time; of which the '' Fabienses in Monte Albuno"may certainly be placed at Rocca di Papa, thehighest village on the Alban Mount, and the Castri-nionienfiea at Mariuo, near the site of Alba Longa.The list of the thirty cities of the League given byLil.my.-4tL> (v. 61) has been already cited (p. 139).Of the names included in it, Bubkstlm is whollyiLiknown, and must hare disappeared at an early pe­ri. J. Cakventcm is known only from the mentionof the Arx Carrentana in Livy during the wars withthe Aeouians (iv. 53, 55), and was probably situatedswnewliere on the frontier of that people; while twoof the names, the Fortineii (Qopriveiot) and Tri-crini (TpiKfiyoi), are utterly unknown, and in all pro­bability corrupt. The former may probably be thesame with the Forctii of Pliny, or perhaps with theForentani of the same author, but both these areequally unknown to us. Besides these Pliny has given a long list of townsor cities (clara oppida. iii. 5. s. 9. § 68) which onceexisted in Latium, but had wholly disappeared in histime. Among these we find many that are wellknown in history and hare been already noticed, viz.Satricum, Pametia, Scaptia. Politorium, Tellenae,Caeiina, Ficana, Crustumerium, Ameriola, Medul-lia, Comicnlum, Antemnae, Cameria, Collatia, Withtliese he joins two cities which are certainly of my­thical character; Saturnia, which was alleged to havepreviously existed on the Bite of Rome, and Antipolis,M the hill of the Janiculum ; and adds three othertames. Sulmo, a place not mentioned by any other•titer, but the name of which may probably be recog­nised in the modern Sermonela; Norbe, which seemsto be an erroneous repetition of the well-knownN.rha, already mentioned by him among the existingdues of Latium (lb. §64); and Amitinum or Ami-temom, of which no truce is found elsewhere, exceptthe well-known city of the name in the Vestini, whichataat possibly be meant. But, after mentioningthese cities as extinct, Pliny adds another list of*■ p-jpuli" or communities, which had been accustomedto share with them in the sacrifices on the AlbanM-jnnt, and which were all equally decayed. Ac­cording to the punctuation proposed by Niebuhr andadopted by the latest editors of Pliny, he classesthese collectively as "populi Albeuses," and enu­merates them as follows: Albani, Aesulani, Ac­cuses, Aholani, Bubetani, Bolani, Cusuetani, Co-nolani, Fidenates, Foretii, Hortenses, LAtinienses,Lcojmlani, Mauatcs, Macrales, Mutncumensos, Mu-twnses, Kaminieuaea, Olliculani, Octnlani, Pedani,Ptdlmtini, Qnerqaetulani, Sicani, Sisuiunses, Tole-rwses, Talienses, Vimitellarii, Velienses, Venetulani,t ueHemes. Of the names here given, eleven relate<» well-known fcrwns (Albn, Aesula, Bola, Corioli,Fideuae, LooguLa, Pedum, Pollusca, Querquetula,Toferium and Vitellia): the Bubetani are evidently'!>- same with the Bnbentani of Dionysius already•"tieed; the Foretii may perhaps be the same withthe Fortineii of that author; the Hortenses may pro-b*Uy he the inhabitants of the town called by LivyOruxa; the Munienses are very possibly the peoplerf ti* town afterwards called Castrimoenium: butt*re nil! remain sixteen wholly unknown. At the■one time there are several indications (such as the agreement with Dionysius in regard to the otherwiseunknown Bubentani, and the notice of Aesula andQuerquetula, towns which do not figure in history)that the list is derived from an authentic source; andwas probably copied as a whole by Pliny from somemore ancient authority. The conjecture of Niebuhr,therefore, that we have here a list of the subject ordependent cities of Alba, derived from a period whenthey formed a separate and closer league with Albaitself, is at least highly plausible. The notice in thelist of the I'diewu is a strong confirmation of thisview, if we can suppose them to be the inhabitants ofthe hill at Rome called the Velia, which is known tous as bearing an important part in the ancient sacri­fices of the Septimontimn. [Roma.] The works on the topography of Latium, asmight be expected from the peculiar interest of thesubject, are sufficiently numerous: but the olderones are of little value. Cluverius, as usual, laid asafe and solid foundation, which, with the criticismsand corrections of Holstenius, must be considered asthe basis of all subsequent researches. The specialworks of Kircher (1'erus Latium, fol. Amst. 1671)and Volpi (Vetus Latium Profamtm et Sacrum,Romae, 1704—1748,10 vols.4to.) contain very littleof real value. After the ancient authorities had beencarefully brought together and revised by Cluverius,the great requisite was a careful and systematicexamination of the localities and existing remains,and the geographical survey of the country. Theseobjects were to a great extent carried out by Sir W.Gell (whose excellent map of the country aroundRome is an invaluable guide to the historicalinquirer) and by Professor Nibby. (Sir W. Gell,Topography of Borne and its Vicinity; with alarge map to accompany it, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1834;2d edit. 1 vol. Lond. 1846. Nibby, Analisi Storico-Topogrqfico-Antiquaria deUa Carta dei Dintomi diRoma, 3 vols. 8vo. Rome, 1837; 2d edit, lb. 1849.The former work by the same author, ViaggioAntiqnario net" Contorni di Roma, 2 vols. 8vo.Rome, 1819, is a very inferior performance.) It isunfortunate that both their works are deficient inaccurate scholarship, and still more in the spirit ofhistorical criticism, so absolutely necessary in allinquiries into the early history of Rome. Westphal,in his work (Die Romische Kampagne in Topo-graphischer ti. Antiquarischer llinsicht dargestellt,4to. Berlin, 1829) published before the survey ofSir W. Gell, and consequently with imperfect geo­graphical resources, attached himself especially totracing out the ancient roads, and his work is in thisrespect of the greatest importance. The recent work ofBormann (Alt-Latinische Chorographie undStadte-Geschichte, 8vo. Halle, 1852) contains a carefulreview of the historical statements of ancient authors,as well as of the researches of modern inquirers, butis not based upon any new topographical researches.Notwithstanding the labours of Gell and Nibbv,much still remains to be done in this respect, and awork that should combine the results of such in­quiries with sound scholarship and a judicious spiritof criticism would bo a valuable contribution toancient geography. [E. H. B.] LATMICUS SINUS (o AaTiwror irdXwos), abay on the western coast of Caria, deriving its namefrom Mount Latmus, which rises at the head of thegulf. It was formed by the mouth of the riverMaeander which flowed into it from the north-east.Its breadth, between Miletus, on the southern head­land, and Pyrrha in the north, amounted to 30