OCR Output SCYTIHA. 941 SCVTHIA •vr <i the Servile War of Whips belongs to this ml Vlxn the approach of Darius becomes threaten.T, tfce (rtiooi, Bndini, and Sanromatae join with» Srrthius in resisting it; the Agsthyrsi, Neuri,:.cro|<up, Melanchlaeni, and Tauri reservingiwItw foe the defence of their own territory ifxiri (vi. 119). To the three constituents oft roafederscy there are three kings, Scopasis,jab Trias, and Taxacis, each with an allottedKrkt to defend. This was done by destroying them ind tillage, driving off the flocks and herds, andTtp6ag (we can scarcely translate trvyxov by»«•;) the wells. The points whereon attack was»paled were the frontiers of the Danube andi Om. These they laid waste, having sent theirn >iret and children northwards. The firstnt <( the war fell upon the Budini, whose»in CKy was burnt. Darius then moved south-ti and westward, pressing the other two divi-i> opm the countries of the Melanchlaeni, Neuri,I Ar*thyrsi. The latter warn the Modes againstruH'hiog on the frontier. Idanthyrsus answersm Jlieally to a defiance of Darius. Scopasis tam-■ with the lonians who have the custody of thein ever the Danube. The Medea suffer fromnh, and determine to retreat across the Danube,i Srrthiins reach the passage before them, andins the Ionian to give it up. And now ap­es, for lbs first time, the great name of Miltiades,i is one of the commanders of the guard of theire. He advises that the Scythians should beniuted, Darius weakened. A half-measure is|t-d. by which the Scythians are taught to dis-t the lonians, and toe Medea escape into Thrace • rating the Scythian invasion of Darius. (Herod.U0-U1.) 'attorn of the fferodotean Accounts.—Theo» of H erode* da upon the Scythae, thongh full,<xairare rather than systematic. Part of their■7 appears aa Lydian, part as Scythian Proper,st n tnuih legend in his accounts; but the chiefvitas are in the geograpliy. Even here the de-1 ire irregular. One notice arises out of the • S-rtbae, another oat of the geography of theirit, t third oat of the sketch of Tauris. [Seet>» and Tafrosctthae.] In this we hear vrthia is bounded first by the Agathyrsi,sy the Kenri, then by the Androphagi, andJ by the Melanchlaeni. The area is four-■rsd; the longest sides being the prolongationsE U.e coast and towards the interior. From the'Is the Boryslhenes is 10 days: 10 days more- lUaxis; from the coast to the Melanchlaeni,!»»•;—200 stadia to each day's journey. Ifs>-*«uremtnt be exact, it would bring Tula,•W, Kiamrn, Sec, within tlie Scythian area,—>> .< coing too far. The days' journeys inland■f nimbly shorter than those along the coast.>• Agathyrsi were in Trunxylcania, on the■"• The evidence, or want of evidence, as far • text hi* Herodotus goes, is the same as it isthe Neuri. Their frontagers were known as bae Aracerea, i. e.. the generic name was with1 ipxific Hence any Scythians whatever with aA- name must have been contrasted with them;'■Im mm to have been the case with the Aga-*■ [Hcmn, p. 1097.] Assuming, how-'•hf Agathvrsi to have been Scythian, and to•*n an the JUaroe, we carry the Herodotean^- is far west as the Thau; nor can we ex­ clude them from any part of WaUachia and ifol.davia. Yet these are only known to Herodotus asthe country of the Sigynnes. The frontier, then,between the Scythae and Getae is difficult to draw.Herodotus has no Getae, eo nomine, north of theDanube.- yet such there must have been. Uponthe whole, we may look upon the Danubian Princi­palities as a tract scarcely known to Herodotus, andmake it Scythian, or Getic, or mixed, according tothe evidence of other writers, as applicable at thetime under consideration. It was probably Getic inthe East, Sarmatian in the West, and Scythian inrespect to certain districts occupied by intrusivepopulations. Thucydides mentions the Getae and Scythiansbut once (ii. 96), and that together. The greatalliance that Sitalces, king of Thrace, effects againstPerdiccas of Macedon includes the Getae beyondMount Haemua, and, in the direction of the Euxinesea, the Getae who were conterminous (S^opoi) withthe Scythians, and whose armour was Scythian(o/xdirKcvoi). They were each archers and horse­men (iwiroTo|oTeu); whereas the Dii and the moun­taineers of Rhodope wore daggers. According to Ovid(7 ru/. v. 7. 19), the occupants of the level countrydo so too :— "Dextera non segnis fixo dare vulnera cnltro,Quem vinctum lateri barbara omnis habet" The Scythians of the Macedonian Pebiod. — Passing over tho notices of Xenophon, whichapply to Thrace Proper rather than to the partsnorth of Mount Haemns, and which tell us nothingconcerning the countries beyond the Danube,—passing, also, over the notices of a war in whichPhilip king of Macedon was engaged against Athcas,and in which he crossed Mount Haemus into thecountry of the Triballi, where he received a wound, — we come to the passage of the Danube by Alex­ander. In the face of an enemy, and without a bridge,did the future conqueror of Persia cross the river,defeat the Getae on its northern bank, destroy a (own,and return. (Arrian, Anab. i. 2—7.) This wasan invasion of Scythia in a geographical sense only;still it was a passage of the Danube. The Getae ofAlexander may have been descendants of the Sigynne*of Herodotus. They were not, eo nomine, Scythians. When Alexander was on the Danube the famousembassy of the Galutac reached him. They hailheard of his fame, and came to visit him. Theywere men of enormous stature, and feared only thatthe heavens should fall. This disappointed Alex­ander, who expected that they would fear Aim.Much has been written concerning the embassy asif it came from Gaul. Yet this is by no means ne­cessary. Wherever there is a Jfalicz or Galaez inmodem geography, there may have been a Galat-innlocality in ancient; just as,wherever there is a Ker~man or C<irman~\:\. there may have been a Germanone, and that without any connection with the Gallior Germani of the West. The roots G-l-t andK-ron-n, are simply significant geographical termsin the Sarmatian and Turk tongues — tongues towhich the Getic and Scythian may most probablybe referred. Such is the present writer's opinion respectingthe origin of the statements that carry certainGalatae as far as the Lower Danube, and make theliasternae, and even the occupants of the Tanais,Germans — not to mention the Caramanians of A*iaMinor and Carmaniaus of Persia. In the present