OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 255 the resistance by the capture of Venusia, at which 3000 Capture oiarmed men were taken prisoners. In Samnium Silo no Venusia-doubt succeeded in retaking Bovianum; but in a battle, inwhich he engaged the Roman general Mamercus ^Emilius,the Romans conquered, and—what was more important thanthe victory itself—Silo was among the 6000 dead whom Fall of Silo,the Samnites left on the field. In Campania the smallerplaces, which the Samnites still occupied, were wrestedfrom them by Sulla, and Nola was invested. The Romangeneral Aulus Gabinius penetrated also into Lucania andgained no small advantages; but, after he had fallen in anattack on the enemy's camp, Lamponius the insurgentleader and his followers once more held almost undisturbedcommand over the wide and desolate Lucano-Bruttian countryand even made an attempt to seize Rhegium, which wasfrustrated, however, by the Sicilian governor Gaius Nor-banus. Notwithstanding isolated mischances the Romanswere constantly drawing nearer to the attainment of theirend; the fall of Nola, the submission of Samnium, the pos­sibility of rendering considerable forces available for Asiaappeared no longer distant, when the turn taken by affairsin the capital unexpectedly gave fresh life to the well-nighextinguished insurrection. Rome was in a fearful ferment. The attack of Drusus Ferment inupon the equestrian courts and his sudden downfall brought Rome-about by the equestrian party, followed by the two-edgedVarian warfare of prosecutions, had sown the bitterestdiscord between the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie as wellas between the moderates and the ultras. Events had com­pletely justified the party of concession; what they had pro­posed voluntarily to bestow, Rome had been more than halfcompelled to concede; but the mode in which the conces­sion was made bore, just like the earlier refusal, the stampof obstinate and shortsighted envy. Instead of grantingequality of rights to all Italian communities, they had onlvexpressed the inferiority in another form. They had re-The bestow-ceived a great number of Italian communities into Roman al°fthecitizenship, but had attached to what they thus conferred an fraj ^*.injurious stigma, by placing the new burgesses alongside of mitations.the old on nearly the same footing as the freedmen occupiedalongside of the freeborn. They had irritated rather thanpacified the communities between the Po and the Alps bythe concession of Latin rights. Lastly, they had withheld