OCR Output *76 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII. others, entangled in the croud, were carried away by thecurrent. The hither bank of the river was now rilledwith Syracusans; and, it being naturally steep, theypoured down their darts upon the Athenians, numbersof whom were drinking greedily of the stream, confu­sedly hampered together in the hollow of the channel.The Peloponnesians, plunging in after them, made agreat slaughter of those who were in the river. Thewater was immediately discoloured with blood: But thestream, polluted with mud and gore, deterred them notfrom drinking it greedily, nor many of them from fight­ing desperately for a draught of it. But, in short, whenthe carcases of the dead began to lie heaped one uponanother in the river, and the whole army was become acontinued carnage;* of some in the river; of those whowere making off from the banks, by the horsemen ofthe foe; Nicias surrenders himself prisoner to Gylip-pus, into whose power he chose to fall sooner than intothat of the Syracusans. He told him, that " he him-** self and the Lacedæmonians might decide his fate as** best pleased themselves; but intreated that a stop** might be put to the slaughter of his soldiers." Uponthis, Gylippus issued out orders to give quarter; andthus they carried off the remnants of this body as pri­soners of war, such excepted as were secreted by theircaptors, the number of which was large. Having, far­ther, detached a party in pursuit of the three hundred,who in the night had broke through the guard, theyalso made them prisoners. The whole number nowcollected together as the public prize was not large>but very numerous were they who were clandestinelysecreted. Not a town in Sicily but was crouded withthem, fince these had not surrendered upon terms likethole under Demosthenes. A considerable number hadalso perished: For this was a terrible slaughter; nay,there was no one greater in the course of the Sicilian * According to DUderut Siculus, the number of the slain amounted to eightttnthousand men. war: