OCR Output 30 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V, They also again brought back the Delians to Delos,induced to it by the many defeats they had suffered inbattle, and the express oracle of the god at Delphi. The Phocians also and Locrians began about thistime to make war upon one another. And now the Corinthians and Argives, united iflleague, go together to Tegea, to persuade its revoltfrom, the Lacedæmonians. They saw it was a largedistrict; and, in case they compassed its accession, theyimagined the whole of Peloponnesus would be ac theirbeck. But, when the Tegeatæ declared, that " they"would in no shape oppoie the Lacedæmonians," theCorinthians^; who till now had acted with great alacrity,slackened in their zeal for contention, and began to fearthat no more of the States would come in. They pro­ceeded, however, to the Bœotians, and solicited them"to accede to the league between themselves and*' Argives, and to co-operate with them for the com-"mon welfare." And, as there were truces for ten-days between the Athenians and Bœotians, which were1agreed upon soon after the peace for fifty years wasmade, the Corinthians now pressed the Bœotians " to*"accompany them to Athens, and solicic for truces"of the same nature for them; but, in cafe the Athe-"nians refused to grant them, to renounce the suspen-"sion of arms, and for the future never to treat With-*' out their concurrence." The Bœotians, thus solici-cited by the Corinthians, desired a longer time to consi­der about their accession to the Argive league. To A-thens, indeed, they bore them company, but could notobtain the ten-days truces: For the Athenians answer­ed, — " The Corinthians have a peace already, if they"are confederates of the Lacedæmonians." And, up­on the whole, the Bœotians absolutely refused to re­nounce their own truces, though the Corinthians insistedupon ir, and urged, with some warm expostulations,that it had been so covenanted between them. Sothere was only a mere cessation of arms between the Co­rinthians,