OCR Output 48 LIVY. people, moved by compassion for his early age, andindignation at his barbarous treatment, reflecting atthe same time what might be the lot of themselves,and of their children, flocked together into the forum,and from thence in a body to the senate-house. Whenthe consuls were obliged by the sudden tumult torail a meeting of the senate, the people falling at thefeet of each of the senators as they were going into thesenate-house, presented to their view the back of Caiustorn with stripes. On that day, in consequence of theoutrageous conduct of an individual, one of the strong­est bonds of credit was broken ; and the consuls werecommanded to propose to the people that no personshould be held in fetters or stocks, except convictedof a crime, and in order to punishment; but that formoney due the goods of the debtor, not his person,should be answerable. Thus the confined debtorswere released; and provision made for the time tocome that they should not be liable to confinement. 29. In the course of this year, while the war with theSamnites was sufficient in itself to give full employ­ment to the senate, besides the sudden defection of theLucanians, and the intrigues of the Tarentines, bywhich it had been effected, they found another sourceof uneasiness in a union formed by the state of theVestinians with the Samnites. Which event, thoughit continued during the present year to be the generalsubject of conversation, without coming under anypublic discussion, appeared so important to the con­suls of the year following, [A. U. C. 430. B. C. 322]Lucius Furius Camillus a second time, and DeciusJunius, that it was the first business which they pro­posed to the consideration of the state. Notwithstand­ing it had yet produced no effects, it threw the senateinto great perplexity, as they dreaded equally the con­sequences either of passing it over or of taking it up ;lest on the one hand, if that people's conduct passedwith impunity, wantonness and arrogance might ex­cite other states in their neighborhood to follow theirexample ; and, on the other, if an attempt should be