OCR Output 194 ROMAN EMPIRK. earth, the apostle St. Peter, whose image you threatento destroy."3 The remote and interior kingdoms of thewest present their homage to Christ and his vicege­rent: and we now prepare to visit one of their mostpowerful monarchs, who desires to receive from ourhands the sacrament of baptism." The barbarians havesubmitted to the yoke of the gospel, while you aloneare deaf to the voice of the shepherd. These piousbarbarians are kindled into rage; they thirst to avengethe persecution of the east. Abandon your rash andfatal enterprise; reflect, tremble, and repent. If youpersist, we are innocent of the blood that will be spiltin the contest; may it fall on your own head."Revolt of The first assault of Leo against the images ofA^.'T3B, Constantinople had been witnessed by a crowd&c- of strangers from Italy and the west, who re­lated with grief and indignation the sacrilege of theemperor. But on the reception of his prescriptiveedict, they trembled for their domestic deities; theimages of Christ and the Virgin, of the angels, martyrs,and saints, were abolished in all the churches of Italy;and a strong alternative was proposed to the Romanpontiff, the royal favour as the price of his compliance,degradation and exile as the penalty of his disobedi­ence. Neither zeal nor policy allowed him to hesitate;and the haughty strain in which Gregory addressedthe emperor displays his confidence in the truth of hisdoctrine or the powers of resistance. Without depend­ing on prayers or miracles, he boldly armed againstthe public enemy, and his pastoral letters admonishedthe Italians of their danger and their duty.0 At this m 'Ov of iffafai 0a7IXetat TIJ; )ysta; v( ®iov CTnyfiov f^owi. "Awo n; tfttiym SWI*; TOU Xiyc/u«TO 2nrrrau. (p. 665.) The pope appean tohave imposed on the ignorance of the Greeks; he lived and died in the Lateran;and in his time all the kingdoms of the west had embraced Christianity. Maynot this unknown Scptetus have some reference to the chief of th Saxon heptarchv,to Ina, king of Wessex, who, in the pontificate of Gregory II. visited Rome forthe purpose, not of baptism, but of pilgrimage? (Pagi, A. D. 689. no. 2. A.I).726. no. 15.) 0 I shall transcribe the important and decisive passage of the Liber Potifica-lis. Respiciens ergo pius vir profanam principis jussionem, jam contra Impera­