OCR Output CHAP. 43. ROMAN HISTORY. 57 which the sons of Ancus had discovered against his pre­decessor, he gave his two daughters in marriage to thetwo young princes, Lucius and Aruns: yet this precau­tion could not prevent the unalterable decrees of fate,nor secure him against the envy attending a crown,which was productive of the blackest treasons, and scenesof the grossest barbarity, even in his own family. Very seasonably for the present tranquillity, war wasundertaken against the Vejentes (the truce with them be­ing now expired,) and the other states of Etruria. Inthat war, fortune conspired, with his own native gallan­try, to ennoble Tullius: for, having routed the enemy'sprodigious army, he returned to Rome, sovereign of theaffections of senate and people. After this, he sets aboutthe works of peace, which, of all others, are the most sa­lutary: and "as Numa jtad^bgsiLjj^ .author of the reHgUOu£ jjojjtj^ofJR onjJe^Tfi at^post leTitymi g ht have reasonf5mention Servms with respect, as author of the several or­ders and ranks in the state, whereby the different de­grees of dignity or fortune are ascertained, he institutedthe census; the effects of which were most salutary in astate, that promised to arrive at such a pitch of greatness:for by it the charges of peace and war were not leviedby the head as before, but in proportion to their estatesrespectively. tHe then divided the people into classes'and centuries, according to his census; a regulation verypropet"" both in peace and CHAP. XLIII. - * * * He divides tlie people into classes and centuries. V,yF those whose, fortune amounted to, or exceeded100,000* asses of brass, he made up eighty centuries:one half whereof were of the aged citizens, and one halfof the younger. These together were called the firstclass. The design of the elder part was to have them aU-ways at hand to guard the city; of the younger, to carryarms abroad. The arms assigned them were a helmet, around shield, -boots, a coat of mail; all of brass. These • •' • i • «« : 18: 4d, •• -