OCR Output 186 LIVY. truce being made for two months to allow time forambassadors to be sent to Rome, in order that thepeople might ratify the whole. Every one of thetribes assented to it, because, having turned theirefforts against Africa, they wished to be eased for thepresent from every other enemy. When all was settled,Publius Sempronius went home to Rome to attend tothe duties of his consulship. 13. In the consulate of Marcus Cornelius and Pub­lius Sempronius, which was the fifteenth year of thePunic war, [A. U. C. 548. B. C. 204] the provinceswere thus decreed :—to Cornelius, Etruria, with theold army; to Sempronius, Bruttium, with power tolevy new legions. Of the pretors, to Marcus Marciusfell the city jurisdiction; to Lucius Scribonius Libo,the foreign, and to the same person, Gaul; to MarcusPomponius Matho, Sicily; and to Tiberius ClaudiusNero, Sardinia. Publius Scipio's command was pro­longed for a year, with the same army and the samefleet he then had: as was also that of Publius Licinius,who was ordered to hold Bruttium, with two legions,as long as the consul should judge it to be for the in­terest of the state that he should continue in that pro­vince. Marcus Livius, and Spurius Lucretius, also heldon their commissions, with the two legions with whichthey had protected Gaul against Mago; and likewiseCneius Octavius, who, after delivering up Sardiniaand the legion to Tiberius Claudius, was, with fortyships of war, to defend the sea-coast, within suchlimits as the senate should appoint. To Marcus Pom­ponius, pretor in Sicily, two legions of the forces thathad been at Canua; were decreed; and it was ordered,that, of the propretors, (Titus Quintius and Caius Hos-tilius Tubulus,) the former should hold Tarentum, thelatter Capua, as in the former year, each with the oldgarrison. With respect to Spain, it was referred tothe people to determine on the two proconsuls whoshould be sent thither; when all the tribes agreed inordering Lucius Cornelius Lentulus and Lucius Man-lius Acidinus, in quality of proconsuls, to hold the