OCR Output 276 DECLIN*E AND FALL [CHAP. SLIII. Roman forces were dissipated by a storm. In the secondthey approached the shore; but they saw the hills co­vered with archers, the landing-place defended by a lineof spears, and the king of the Goths impatient for battle.The conqueror of Italy retired with a sigh, and continuedto languish, inglorious and inactive, till Antonina, whohad been sent to Constantinople to solicit succours, ob­tained, after the death of the empress, the permission ofhis return. ........-. Final reod The five last campaigns of Belisarius mieht abate theriu», envy or his competitors, whose eyes had been dazzledsomber! anc^ wounded by the blaze of his former glory. Insteadof delivering Italy from the Goths, he had wanderedlike a fugitive along the coast, without daring to marchinto the country, or to accept the bold and repeatedchallenge of Totila. Yet in the judgment of the fewwho could discriminate counsels from events, and com­pare the instruments with the execution, he appeared amore consummate master of the art of war, than m theseason of his prosperity, when he presented two' captivekings before the throne of Justinian. The valour ofBelisarius was not chilled by age; his prudence was ma­tured by experience, but the moral virtues of humanityand justice seem to have yielded to the hard necessity ofthe times. The parsimony or poverty of the emperorcompelled him to deviate from the rule of conduct whichhad deserved the love and confidence of the Italians.The war was maintained by the oppression of Ravenna,Sicily, and all the faithful subjects of the empire; andthe rigorous prosecution of Herodian provoked that in­jured or guilty officer to deliver Spoleto into the handsof the enemy. The avarice of Antonina, which had beensometimes diverted by love, now reigned without a rivalin her breast. Belisarius himself had always understood,that riches, in a corrupt age, are the support and orna­ment of personal merit. And it cannot be presumed,that he should stain his honour for the public service, «