OCR Output 93 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. the name which are elsewhere called the Monumentof Herod, and, from the character of their decora­tions, may ven-well be ascribed to theHerodian period.M. de Saulcy has lately added to our previous in­formation concerning them, and, by a kind of ex­hausting process, he endeavours to prove that theycould have been no other than the tombs of Davidand the early kings of Judah, which have alwayshitherto been plamt on Mount Stun, where the tra­ditionary site is still guarded by the Moslems.( Voyage en St/rie, torn. ii. pp. 228—281.) (4) The Fuller's monument is the last-mentionedpoint on the new wall, and, as an angular toweroccupied this site, the monument must have beenat the north-east angle of the New City; probably onenf the many rock graves cut in the perpendicularface of the Valley of Jehoshnpliat, near one of whichDr. Schultz has described the foundations of a tower.(Jerusalem, pp. 38, G4.) The Monument nf theFuller probably gave its name to the Fuller's field,which is mentioned by the prophet Isaiah as thespot near which the Assyrian army under Rabshakehencamped (xxxvi. 2, vii. 3); and the traditionarysite of the camp of the Assyrians, which we shallfind mentioned by Josephus, in his account of thesiege, was certainly situated in this quarter. Fromthis north-cast angle the third wall followed the browof the Valley of Jehoshaphat until it reached thewall of the Outer Temple at its north-cast angle. Having thus completed the circuit of the walls,asdescribed by Joseph us, and endeavoured to fix thevarious points mentioned in his description (whichfurnishes the most numerous topographical noticesnow extant of ancient Jerusalem), we shall lie in acondition to understand the most important his­torical facts of its interesting and chequered history,when we have further taken a brief survey of theTemple. Hut, first, a singular and perplexing dis­crepancy must be noticed between the general andthe detailed statements of the historian, as to theextent of the ancient city; for, while he states thecircuit of the entire city to be no more than 33 stadia,or 4 Roman miles plus 1 stadium, (he specificationof the measure of the wall of Agrippu alone gives,on the lowest computation, an excess of 12 stadia,or 1$ mile, over that of the entire city !— for it had90 towers, 30 cubita wide, at intervals of 200 cubits.No satisfactory solution of this difficulty has yetbeen discovered. IV. Tub Temple Mount. The Temple Mount, called in Scripture the Moan-tain of the Lord's House, and Moriah (2 Ckron. iii. 1),is situated at the south east of the city, and is easilyidentified with the site of the Dome of the Mosk inmodern Jerusalem. It was originally % third hill ofthe Old City, over against Arm, but serrated fromit by a broad ravine, which, however, wma filled upby the Asmonaean princes, so that these two hillsbecame ooe, and are generally so reckoned by thehistorian (B.J.r. 4.) 1. The Outer Court—The Temple, in the widestsignification of the word (to Up6v), consisted if twocourts, one within the other, though the inner oneIs sometimes subdivided, and distributed into fourother courts. The area of the Outer Court was ingreat part artificial, for the natural level space onthe summit of the mount being found too confinedfor the Temple, with its surrounding chambers,oourta, and cloisters, was gradually increased bymechanical expedients. This eaten-ion was com* menced by Solomon, who raised from the depth ofthe eastern valley a wall of enormous stones, boundtogether with lead, within which he raised a bankof earth to a level with the native rock. On this waserected a cloister, which, with its successors, alwaysretained the name of " Solomon's Porch." (er-rok2oAo/i<vror, St. John, x. 23; Acts, iii. 11, v. 12.)This process of enlarging the court by artificialembankments was continued by successive kings;but particularly by Herod the Great, who, when hereconstructed the Temple Proper (va6s), enlarged theOuter Court to double its former size, and adornedit with stately cloisters. {Ant. xv. 11. § 5.) Ofthese, the Royal Porch, on the south, was the mostremarkable of all his magnificent works. It consistedof four rows of Corinthian columns, distributed intoa central nave and lateral aisles; the aisles being30 feet in width and 50 in height, and the navehalf as wide again as the aisles, and double theirheight, rising into a clerestory of unusually large)proportions. The other cloisters were double, andtheir total width only 30 cubits. To this OuterCourt there were four gates on the west, towardsthe city, and one on each of tho other sides; ofwhich that on the east is still remaining, commonlycalled i he Golden Gate. 2. The Inner Court — The Inner Temple (/fpoV)was separated from the Outer by a stone wall (<ppay-pos, sec Epkes. ii. 14) 3 cubits in height, on whichstood pillars at equal distances, with inscriptions,in Greek and Latin, prohibiting aliens from acres*.To this court there was an ascent of fourteen steps,then a level Bpacc of 10 cubits, and then a furtherascent of five stei* to the gates, of which there werefour on the north and south sides, and two on theeast, but none on the west, where stood the Sanctuary(Wi). The place of the Altar, in front of the rait, isdetermined with the utmost precision by the ex­istence in the Sacred Kock of the Moslems, undertheir venerated dome, of the very cesspool and drainof the Jewish altar, which furnishes a key to therestoration of the whole Temple, the dimensions ofwhich, in all its parts, are given in minute detail intho treatise called Middoth (i. e» measures), one ofthe very ancient documents contained in the MUhoa.The drain communicating with this cesspool, throughwhich the blood ran off into the Kedron, was atthe south-west angle of the Altar; and there was atrap connected with this cave. 1 cubit square (com­monly closed with a marble slab), through which aman occasionally descended to cleanse it and to clearobstructions. Both the drain and the trap are to beseen in tlie rock at this day. The Altar was 32 cubits square at its bate, baftgradually contracted, so tliat its hearth was only24 cubits square. It was 1 *> cubits high, and had anascent by an inclined plane on the south aide, 38cubits long and 16 wide. Between the Altar and the porch of the Templewas a space of 22 cubits, rising in a gentle nscnitby steps to the vestibule, the door of which was40 cubit* high and 20 wide. The total length ofthe Holy House itself was only 100 cubits, and thiswan subdivided into three farts: the Pronaus 11,the Sanctuary 40, the Holy of Holies 20, allowiasj29 cubits for the partition walls and a small chamberbehind (i. e. we»t of) the Most Holy place. The)total width of the building was 7o cubita; of whichthe Sanctuary only occupied 20, the remainder bringdistributed into side chambers, in three stories, as­