OCR Output AP. 35. ffCMAN tflSTORY. '453 Setting out with a numerous train of hone- and foot,came first 10 the coumry ot Tiicastini (a). They wereon/sifter opposed by the Alps, which seemed to them.passable; and no wonder, since there is no certainidetico that ever they had been crossed by mortal,iless we are inclined to give .credit to the stories con-- uing Hercules. Whilst the Gauls were confined by the height of these- .lountains, and were looking about them for a way lead-ig to another world, over the tops of these mountains,'hich reached to heaven, they were detained by a re-gious scruple: they were informed that a strange peo'*ile were out in quest of a settlement, and were opposediy the Salyes (b); it was the Massilians, who had sailedrom Phocaea, in Asia Minor. The Gauls considering11 IB'as an omen of their own fortune, assisted them in"unifying a place where they first landed, which wasnaturally defended by surrounding woods. The Gaulspursued their route over the pathless Alps, by the Tau-rinian forest(c); and having defeated an army of Tuscans,near the river Ticin, they were informed that the coun­try where they were encamped was called Insubria,(now the Milanese;) a name, given also to a canton ofAutun. There, pursuing their good fortune, they built.a city which they called Mediolanum (now Milan.). CHAP. XXXV.-. . ;' 7n continuation. /YFrER that* ariother body of Caenomani (tf) underthe conduct of Elitovius, following the paths of the for­mer, passed the Alps by the same forest, with the as­sistance of Bellovisus, and settled in those places, whichthe Libici then possessed, where now we find the citiesBrixia (e) and Verona (/). These again were followedby the Saluvii, who dwelt near the ancient nation of theLa3vi (g), and tne Ligures (A), and settled upon the banks (a) St. Pol Trois-Chatteaux, in Danphiny. (4) The coast ofProvence. (c) It stood at the foot the Alps Cottiie. (d) A people about Brescia. (e) Now Brescia. (/) Or,Cremona. (g) Inhabitants of Pavia and Novarra, (A) 1o- . ,habiUnts on the banks of the Loire.