OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 347 and, arriving unexpectedly, made himself master ofLarissa, except the citadel,—not that celebrated cityin Thessaly, but another, which they call Cremaste.Attalus also surprised jEgeleos, where nothing wasless apprehended than such an enterprise during thesiege of another city. The works at Oreus had nowbegun to take effect, while the garrison within werealmost spent with unremitted toil (keeping watch bothby day and night), and also with wounds. Part of thewall being loosened by the strokes of the ram, hadfallen down in many places; and the Romans, duringthe night, broke into the citadel through the breachwhich lay over the harbor. Attalus, likewise, at thefirst light, on a signal given from the citadel by theRomans, assaulted the city on his side, where greatpart of the walls had been levelled; on which the gar­rison and townsmen fled into the other citadel, andeven that they surrendered in two days after. Thecity fell to the king, the prisoners to the Romans. 47. The autumnal equinox now approached, and theEuboean. gulf, called Coela, is reckoned dangerous bymariners. Choosing therefore to remove thence beforethe winter storms came on, they returned to Piraeus,from whence they had set out for the campaign. Apus-tius, leaving there thirty ships, sailed by Malea toCorcyra. The king was delayed during the celebrationof the mysteries of Ceres, immediately after which healso retired into Asia, sending home Agesimbrotus andthe Rbodians. Such, during that summer, were theproceedings by sea and land of the Roman consul andlieutenant-general, aided by Attalns and the Rhodians,against Philip and his allies. The other consul, CaiusAurelius, on coming into his province, and finding thewar there already brought to a conclusion, did not dis­semble his resentment against the pretor for havingproceeded to action in his absence; wherefore, sendinghim away to Etruria, he led on the legions into theenemy's country, where their operations, having noother object than booty, produced more of it thanglory. Lucius Furius, finding nothing in Etruria that