OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 295 least as much part as the comparatively noble feeling ofrevenge. In a political point of view this measure was notonly without any rational object—for its financial purposemight have been attained without this bloody edict, and thenatives of Asia Minor were not to be driven into warlikezeal even by the consciousness of the most blood-stainedguilt—but even opposed to the king's designs, for on theone hand it compelled the Roman senate, so far as it was stillcapable of energy at all, to an energetic prosecution of thewar, and on the other hand it struck at not the Romansmerely, but the king's natural allies as,well, the non-RomanItalians. This Ephesian massacre was altogether a meremeaningless act of brutally bliud revenge, which obtainsa false semblance of grandeur simply through the colossalproportions in which the character of sultanic rule was heredisplayed. The king's views altogether grew high; he had begun the Organiza-war from despair, but the unexpectedly easy victory and the tion of tllenon-arrival of the dreaded Sulla occasioned a transition to concl.uemlthe most highflown hopes. He made anterior Asia his home;Pergamus the seat of the Roman governor became his newcapital, the old kingdom of Sinope was handed over to theking's son Mithradates to be administered as a viceroyship;Cappadocia, Phrygia, Bithynia were organized as Ponticsatrapies. The grandees of the empire and the king'sfavourites were loaded with rich gifts and fiefs, and not onlywere the arrears of taxes remitted, but exemption from taxa­tion for five years was promised to all the communities—ameasure which was as much a mistake as the massacre of theRomans, if the king expected thereby to secure the fidelityof the inhabitants of Asia Minor. The king's treasury was, no doubt, copiously replenishedotherwise by the immense sums which accrued from theproperty of the Italians and other confiscations; for in­stance in Cos alone 800 talents (£195,000) which theJews had deposited there were carried off by Mithradates.The northern portion of Asia Minor and most of the islandsbelonging to it were in the king's power; except the pettyPaphlagonian dynasts there was hardly a district therewhich still adhered to Rome; the whole JEgean sea wascommanded by his fleets; only the south-west, the city-leagues of Caria and Lycia and the city of Rhodes, resistedhim. In Caria, no doubt, Stratonicea was reduced by foroe