OCR Output OF THE; ROMAN EMPIRE. and calumny to shed their poison on the administration of the best-of princes, and to accuse even their virtues by artfully confoundingthem with those vices, to which they bear the nearest affinity. Thetroops listened with pleasure to the emifiaries of Maximin. Theyblushed at their own ignominious patience, which during thirteenyears had supported the vexatious discipline imposed by an effemi­nate Syrian, the timid slave of his mother and of the senate. Itwas time, they cried, to cast away that .useless phantom of the civilpower, and to elect for their prince and general a real soldier, edu­cated in camps,< exercised in war, who would assert the glory, anddistribute among his companions the treasures, of the empire* Agreat army, commanded by the emperor in person, was at that• lime assembled on the banks of the Rhine against the Germansand the important care of training and reviewing the new levies,-was intrusted to Maximin. One day as he entered the field of exer­cise, the troops, either from a sudden impulse or a formed conspi­racy, saluted him emperor, silenced by their loud acclamations hisobstinate refusal, and hastened to consummate their rebellion by the ^ D -murder of Alexander Severus. March '9- The circumstances of his death are variously related. The wri- . * Murder of ters, who suppose that he died in ignorance of the ingratitude and Alexander. . 'a Severus,- ambition of Maximin, affirm, that after taking a frugal repast inthe fight of the army, he retbed to sleep, and that about theseventh hour of the day, a party of his own guards broke into theImperial tent, and, with many wounds, astaffinated their virtuous-and unsuspecting prince5. If we credit another, and indeed a moreprobable account, Maximin was invested with the purple by a nu*-merous detachment, at the distance of several miles from the headVquarters; and he trusted for success rather to the secret wishes thanto the public declarations of the great army. Alexander had suffi­cient time to awaken a faint sense of loyalty among his troops; buttheir reluctant professions of fidelity quickly vanished on the ap- 3 pearance